

EXTRA DRY
A PRODUCT OF THE
ĵ
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 69—No. 3543
Wednesday, January 7, 1948
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Pcst Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
INVERARAY CASTLE, THE HOME OF THE MACCAILEAN MHOR
THE history of Inveraray is the history of the Argyll?. The first
knight of the line was Sir Colin Campbell, of Loch Awe,
knighted in 1280. The first earl was another Colin, created in
1457, The Argyll marqui&ate dates from 1651, and in 1701 Argyll
became a dukedom.. To the men of Clan Campbell, however, the
head of their house would always be the MacCailean Mhor, “Son
of the great Colin.” Their castle which we see today was built
about 1750 on the site of an earlier castle, and stands in a park
nearly thirty miles round. The town of Inveraray is noted as
having been the place where Judges came periodically to hold a
High Court. They stayed at the famous inn known as: “The
Argyll Arms,” where they had a wine cellar of their own, and
from all accounts their Lordships had a pretty taste in wine.
Inveraray was visited by Dr. Johnson in 1773, and he has recorded
that he found “ ‘The Arms’ not only commodious but magnificent.”
During that visit he and Boswell were dinner guests at Inveraray
Castle, and the story goes that the Doctor had been “so entertain-
ing that Lady Betty Hamilton drew her chair up to his and listened
eagerly.”


rggOOTio
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how do Write tor Profit, ae
edvertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name ..
My Address
S.B. 148
AGE
The Red Page
MOBY DICK'S SKELETON.
A. G. Stephens’s description of Rigby’s
Romance when it was mercifully carved
from the parent body of Such Is Life—
“a juicy quarter of the mammoth”—
might with some generosity be applied
to Henry Reed’s Moby Dick (Cape), sub-
titled “A play for radio from Herman
Melville’s novel.”
If the phrase is misleading, for Reed
has not cut off a superfluous fin but has
boiled the great white whale down to its
bare bones, there is still some justifica-
tion for bringing Melville and Furphy
together, for anybody who is tempted by
play to return to the original novel
will find that Such Is Life, in a minor
way, strangely resembles it.
Very likely Furphy was influenced by
Melville. There is the same waywardness
in the two novels ; the same discursive-
ness ; the same careful documentation ; the
same intention of pouring into one novel
a complete philosophy of life, so that the
world of the book stand as an image
of all life ; and, though memory recalls
Moby Dick as tragedy and Such Is Life
as comedy, the same whimsical humor
runs through both.
Up to a certain point—the point at
which Furphy stopped short —they speak,
as it were, in the same tone of voice.
Change Furphy’s dry and Australian
setting for Melville’s wet and American,
and the opening of Such Is Life (“Un-
employed at last!”) is the opening of
Moby Dick:
Call me Ishmael. Some years ago—never
mind how long precisely—having little or
no money in my purse, and nothing in
particular to interest me on shore, I thought
I would sail about a little and see the
watery part of the world. It is a way I
have of driving off the spleen, and regulat-
ing the circulation Especially whenever
my hypos get such an upper hand of me
that it requires a strong moral principle
to prevent me from deliberately stepping
into the street and methodically knocking
people’s hats off—then, I account it high
time to get to sea as soon as I can.
Where Moby Dick is immeasurably
superior to Furphy’s novel is, of course,
in dramatic intensity; in the drive of
the central theme —Ahab, heroic and half-
mad, sometimes a whaling skipper hunt-
ing the white monster that has maimed
him and sometimes Prometheus or Satan
defying Omnipotence, racing to his in-
evitable destruction. And this excite-
ment in Moby Dick, the product of what
Viola Meynell called Melville’s “wildest,
farthest kind of genius,” the novelist’s
exultation in a character at once out-
raged and outrageous, lights up and
makes turbulent the whole book, so that
the digressions fall into place, an enrich-
ment rather than an obstruction of the
flooding tide, and the prose itself foams
and rages and thunders like a storm at
sea.
Noting, in a lucid introduction, not
only the dramatic impetus but. the organic
unity of Moby Dick, Henry Reed con-
fesses, by implication, the inevitable in-
adequacy of his play. When his version,
cut to be performed in 2} hours, runs
to 95 pages of large type and the Oxford
edition of the novel, in small type, runs
to 675 pages, he is certainly not able to
give us more than a smattering of Mel-
ville.
A case may be made out for perform-
ing such snippings from a great novel
oyer the air. If, like the film versions of
Dickens, they cannot possibly convey the
richness of the original, at least they call
attention to it. And, theoretically, it
should be possible to present the essence
of the novel.
It is not easy for anyone familiar with
Moby Dick to say how near to the spirit
of Melville this play may have seemed
in production. It is disappointing in
that “whale music” (suitable noises were
specially composed for the occasion) is
used to convey the mounting of excite-
ment that should come from within the
drama instead of being imposed from
without —Reed has surrendered here to
technical trickery—and it seems highly
probable that, lacking the justification of
the surrounding prose and the understand-
ing that the whole book is keyed-up
beyond the normal, Ahab’s speeches may
have sounded naive and melodramatic:
Time was, when the sunrise spurred me,
and the sunset soothed. No more. This
lovely light, it lights not me; I am damned,
most subtly and most malignantly, damned
in the midst of paradise.
Possibly the play would “work” in
spite of these disadvantages!. There is no
falsification of Melville’s purposes, and,
however much he has had to sacrifice to
fit the 8.8.C.’s time limits (twice as
generous, incidentally, as the A.B.C.’s),
Reed has at least cut truly to the “line”
of the original, the drama; of Ahab and
his whale. He has taken full advantage
of the somewhat dangerous freedom of
setting and rapid changes of scene
allowed by radio production, and he has
added to Melville, for linking-up pur-
poses, some pleasant verses of his own.
As a poet Reed has yet to emerge from
the influence of Murder in the
Cathedral :
The wind blows tales of death, of other deaths
Than the deaths that surround us. Rumor and
mystery
Weave a way like fog about us. Every strange-
ness
Carries a warning inflection...
Yet there are some lovely passages
that owe more to original inspiration and
observation than to either Eliot or Mel-
ville ;
Mapple: There is another world, becalmed
and charmed
Under the water. Here the Leviathan
Innumerably and ponderously keeps
His breeding-ground; here his vast
roving courts
Pause in a giant circle —
Ishmael: —to whose borders
We with our darts bring fright and
consternation—
Mappk: —Yet in the still blue waters at
the centre
The young whales suckle calmly—
Ishmael: —and their great mothers
Float in the heavenly depth; our boat
is only
A drifting shape above their upward
glance. Our bloody wars
Stir not a ripple around them...
Central delight;
Eternal mildness of joy.
These verses are worth having, but
their proper place is surely in Reed’s
next collection of his own work. How-
ever successful the play may have been
in production, its publication in book
form is a strange and unwarrantable pro-
ceeding, Reed has not added enough to
make it an independent work of art, and,
except to students of radio technique, its
only value for reading purposes is to
send one hurrying back to the original
novel. What is the use of an emaciated
skeleton of Moby Dick when any book-
seller can supply the whole whale?
Half Measures.
A curious hesitancy, carried to the
point of the omission of essential infor-
mation and incidents, robs Margaret
Trist’s second novel, Daddy (Angus and
Robertson), of the vitality of her previous
work. As light in tone as her short stories
and Now That We’re Laughing it lacks
the underlying firmness.
There are, it is true, moments in the
novel both redeeming and entertaining.
Margaret Trist has always been able to
extract amusing characters out of the
depths of the suburbs, and here, particu-
larly when a belligerent Mrs. Poole tilts
a lance at an amiable Mrs. Lloyd, there
is genuine comedy—realism lit by humor.
Mrs. Lloyd, vague, long-suffering,
pleasant, perpetually bewildered by a
Bohemian husband with a taste for pec-
cadilloes, is convincingly painted “in the
round”; and, among her three daughters
(Diane, the youngest, is the heroine and
therefore, like most heroines, uninterest-
ing), the easygoing Barbara and, especi-
ally, the intense Enid are effective in out-
line.
Robert Lloyd, the “Daddy” of the title
and the central figure throughout, some-
how just misses fire. In the protracted
opening chapters he is portrayed as a
roaring. Rabelaisian fellow, yet in spite
of some amusing moments, he fails to
warm the heart. It is here that the omis-
sions begin to have their effect. Robert
is a “writer,” we are told. But what —
unless a casual reference to his liking for
bush ballads and a solitary mention of
“articles,” subject not stated, may be
taken as clues —does he write? How
does he make his living? These may
seem minor details, but they are signi-
ficant: we are not being told the whole
truth about Robert. One suspects that
his posturings and roarings are the usual
defences put up by a literary impostor
to hide a very minor talent, or the com-
plete absence of talent, and that Margaret
Trist has either not troubled to search
for this obvious truth about him or that,
having found it, she has suppressed it
for the sake of light comedy. But that
makes the comedy, lacking a firm basis
in psychological truth, too light alto-
gether ; it is all on the surface, frothy,
like musical comedy.
At all vital points in the book one
comes to these gaps. A man named Alf,
for instance, Enid’s husband, is shown in
tantalising glimpses as apparently "staid
and thrifty. Then, at a Writers’ Ball,
when he suspects that Enid has been un-
faithful to him, he attacks her murder-
ously, and afterwards reduces her to sub-
jection. Alf, one feels, could have been
built into an extremely dramatic char-
acter ; a miser and something of a
monster. But at the vital point when he
is supposed to be bullying or terrifying
Enid into submission, we are not given a
single glimpse of him ; there is only a
long-distance report that a rather dull
and irritating character, faintly comic,
has developed after the outburst at the
ball into something deep, passionate and
fascinating.
Robert is the victim of a similar omis-
sion. Addicted to minor strayings, he
meets an “old flame,” a polished and
sophisticated woman, returned from
abroad, who insists that if he wishes to
renew their association he will have to
leave home and live with her; be pre-
pared, eventually, to marry her. Robert
leaves home—and becomes invisible.
Nothing is shown of his life with this
woman, nothing of the final break be-
tween them. Again a dramatic scene is
avoided, and what could have been a
humanly interesting situation —a phil-
anderer faced with a serious love affair —
is turned into facile comedy.
Perhaps the truth is that Daddy should
have been a satirical novel. A slightly
less complacent wife, with the willing
assistance of the deserted mistress, might
easily have exposed Robert as a fake in
love as well as in literature. He is, in
fact, revealed as an extremely timorous
Don Juan when, on discovering that she
is married, he rejects a girl in the opening
chapter ; but once again the author seems
to have chosen not to see him as an
impostor.
There was, surely, a satirical intention
implied in the title, Daddy ; and only a
satirical purpose, one feels, could explain
the otherwise pointless excursions into a
“Writers’ Club” where Robert is followed
by his wife. But it cannot be said that
Robert, and the “Writers’ Club,” have
been effectively satirised in this novel.
The “Writers’ Club” is vague even as a
background, as the city outside it is
vague, and Robert is presented, on the
whole, as an endearing “incorrigible.” The
satirical purpose has not been driven
home.
Though its best passages are those of
domestic comedy and drama, by coming
into the city and the “Writers’ Club”
Daddy is a step out of the suburban and
domestic worlds which Margaret Trist
has previously exploited; but half
measures in satire will never be effective
and whether or not it is a step in the right
direction remains to be seen. The rich
and lyrical countryside lightly touched on
in her “Grandmother” sketches in What
Else Is There ? might provide a more pro-
fitable field.
Polities in The Speck.
Some quaint sidelights on the early
political history of Tasmania are recorded
in The Parliament of Tasmania : A His-
torical Sketch, by Carrel Inglis Clark,
Clerk of the Legislative Council (Gov-
ernment Printer, Hobart).
It is a quaint little Parliament still, and
is the second-oldest Legislature in the
Commonwealth. Its system of payment
of members is by graduated allowances
in accordance with the distance of con-
stituencies from the seat of Government.
Party politics did not arrive until 1894,
when the first representative “of what
has become the Labor party” arrived,
though the organisation supporting him
called itself (“timidly,” says the author)
the “Liberal Progressive League,” and
later the “Democratic Club,” But selec-
tion of Ministries, even of the Premier,
by party Caucus obtained there for a
decade before the practice appeared on
the mainland.
The Tasmanian Legislature is unique—
in Australia, at any rate —in having no
“Hansard.” But in tie sixties there was
extant “a Tasmanian Dryden,” who
served the public interest in verse. For
instance, of Francis Smith, Attorney-
General in the first elected Parliament
(1856-60):
A fluent speaker of the quibbling kind,
He boasts a sharp, but unaccomplished mind;
His ready words intelligently flow,
But still disdain a noble end to know.
And on F. M. Innes, “most versatile
politician ; saw no reason why on defeat
of the Ministry of which he was a member
he should not join his late opponents,
which he did, being Treasurer in four
successive Governments”:
Still as he bawls the wonder grows intense
That so much sound conveys so little sense.
And there are some other period pieces.
In 1896 Tasmania legislated for elections
by “proportional representation, with
modifications, as expounded by Hare” —
the Hare-Clark system; the co-inventor.
Judge Clark, was the author’s; father. This
system produced results which at least
once (through return of equal numbers
on each side of the House) “made it im-
possible for Parliament to function satis-
factorily.” The remedy devised was to
increase the numbers in the Assembly
from 30 to 31. The system avoids by-
elections by substituting a re-examination
of the ballot papers of the preceding
general election ; and in 1919 this method
of automatic Replacement returned for
a casual vacancy a candidate who had lost
his deposit at the general election.
It seems that* the first suggestion for
some sort of an Australian Federation
came from Tasmania’s Governor Arthur
(1824-36), and it was revived by Governor
Denison in 1852—in the interests of free-
trade among the colonies. “The second
phase (as it might be called) of the move-
ment, which ended in the establishment
of the Commonwealth, had its birth in the
Tasmanian Legislative Council chamber,
where on January 25, 1886, the first
session of the Federal Council of Aus-
tralasia was opened by Governor Strahan,
and the sessions of 1888, 1889, 1891, 1893,
1895 and 1897 were also held there.”
Mr. Clark’s book is very matter-of-fact,
but illuminated by many touches of quiet
humor.
A Slim Half Dozen .
From a journalistic viewpoint David
McNicoll’s The Round Dozen (Shaks-
peare Head) is interesting as a proof that
columnists have souls. Mr. McNicoll
writes a column for Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph,” which neither publishes nor re-
views any Australian poetry, and it is
pleasing to learn, when his newspaper
is thus officially dead, that there is life
going on behind the scenes.
Mr. McNicoll’s column is, of course,
irrelevant to the consideration of his
poetry; except, perhaps, that the pro-
fession of columnist, involving an interest
in contemporary Sydney, may be held
responsible for a rather vague and dis-
appointing analysis of the thoughts of a
murderer immediately after having done
the deed, and for an epigram on the
Senate. Possibly “The General” —Mr.
McNicoll joins with Siegfried Sassoon in
being unkind to Generals—was also
observed in the course of columnising:
He sits and broods in clubs, unhappy man,
Waiting for young men who respect his age,
Watching for members who will hear his tales;
Puzzling why peace should sweep him from the
stage.
But the best description of contempor-
ary Sydney comes in a nostalgic war
poem, dated “Baalbek, Lebanon, Xmas,
1941”:
I love the sound of trombones
Wailing their muted notes in city haunts,
Forcing their stifled notes through fogs of smoke
Where cigarettes and words jostle in every mouth
For pride of place;
Where waiters light the blue-flamed crepe-suzette.
And trombones wail their haunting, muted notes
For dancers on the springing f100r...
an extract not in itself distinguished, but
effective in its setting.
There are, in fact, few signs of develop-
ment in The Round Dozen. David Mc-
Nicoll wrote a good volume of w)ar
poetry, Air Mail Palestine, and here,
though he takes a step or two towards
Palm Beach, towards love poetry and
the life of Sydney, the steps are small and
hesitant. Twelve poems, at best, make a
book considerably thinner than the usual
“slim volume,” and only about half of
these have much to say. The best are
the two war poems, “Liberation” a
vivid picture of Paris
and “The New Year,” in which the
beaches, the bush and the night-clubs of
peace are contrasted first with the dis-
comforts of war —“Potatoes sloshing at
the dixie’s brim” —and then with the
tragedies, so that the poem becomes an
elegy for fallen youth.
Both these poems run on too much, they
need tightening into stricter form; and
“Liberation,” though a vivid picture,
slips into the category of prose ; but they
are pleasant, clear, readable verses—not
a new direction, but well worth having as
a postscript to Air Mail Palestine.
Latest additions to Dent’s Everyman’s
Library are Silver Poets of the 16th
Century, edited by Gerald Bullett, and
Portuguese Voyages, 1498-1663, edited by
C. D. Ley.
* * * *
Evenings with Music, by Syd Skolsky
(Faber). Presents in lucid, crisp language
a method of intelligent listening to music.
It is a useful, critical guide to the
standard classics and has a list of recom-
mended records. Copiously illustrated with
selected pieces taken as thematic material
from the various scores so that even the
least talented music-lover can pick the
air out on the piano. Biographical notes
on the composers are reliable, and unlike
so many others of its kind the book
does not lean with undue weight on the
pioneer research work of Sir George
Grove.
on that day
We burst with tanks into the wide Etoile;
That was a day—
We’d seen no girls like those
For years; brown legged, blue eyed,
Scarves round their heads —
You couldn’t look for long, though.
For Jerries were still firing from the roofs,
And bullets singing through the sunlit air
Can take your mind off girls
Quicker than you might think...


Anthony Horderns’
“truth IN ADVERTISING’ 1
tW'X
/s M)
(f
t
\
m
i
a
w
%
>*■'#
fin., price, foot
HOSE REEL . .
Price
30-1
THE HORDURA CARDEN HOSE is a tough,
long-lasting, double-braided cord hose with a
corrugated cover . . . the hose is of excellent
quality and moderate cost, *in., Hid. foot.
1/2*
what every gardener neec
for holding the hose.
S rt~v> , ,
sfccT'i, y
•n
&
42.
W
v-\
£
-4
“ i
y yy//
\a'
SPRINKLERS!
*T\
s'"
m
m
M
m
vm
'/M
m
wm
51
I ,>Ss;jS |
ISJ
Wm
l/TTii GADGETS THAT
PO A 3/ G JOB / '"
mr*.
m
wm
m
m
xTm
r -
#
y
/
/
mrefiyin-
EVRON Plain Tap Fit-
tings, constructed to last,
precision built. Ea., 2/5
THE NEW GEYSER
NOZZLE with a variety
of spray effects . . .
coarse or fine, wide or
narrow, straight jet or
shut off if desired. 3/5
“BIG BOY” Hand Water-
ing Nozzle, another
Australian “Pope” Pro-
duct , . . can be
adjusted for wide or
narrow, coarse or fine
spray. Price .... 5/2
OBLONG ROSE SPRAY,
a guaranteed “Pope”
Product, gives a gentle
spray to your rose
blooms. Price .. 4/11
CAP AND LINING for
Screw Tap. Each, 2/2
HOSE CLAMPS, *in„
price, 2id.; fin., 3d.
CLINCHER TAIL for screw-
ing on the sprinkler. Price,
each 1 /4-J-
CANBERRA SPRINKLER, 3 arm type,
a very necessary part of the home
gardener’s equipment. Each, 9/6
PRETORIA Sprinkler, 4 arm, gives
extra water . . . enlarges the area
to be watered. Price, each, 12/6
CREENKEEPER Sprinklers with loose
couplings . . . the speed of rotation
can be controlled by varying the
angles of the jets from vertical.
15in., price, 26/-. 30in., price, 36/-
HOSE SUPPORT, essential to all
lovers of the garden. . . . Can be
adjusted to support the hose at all
angles. Strongly constructed, 9/6 ea.
I2'e
< I /A
u
i
l k .
1 :■
\
/
i/
26/
H'
9fe


TINA'S
HOKEY POKEY PARTY
BY GOLORIA RAWLINSON
j I Q LL dogs have fleas! ” sang Tina,
f\ tuning her ukulele. “All dogs
I \ have fleas! Try my G with
yours, George—is that right?”
From under her drooping eyelids she
glanced obliquely at her brother, who was
twanging on his Hawaiian guitar.
George’s voice, as he turned to her, had
a pounce in it. “Don’t you dare to put
so much as a finger on my guitar while
I’m out, see!”
“I never touch your things, George.
You know very well that it wasn’t my
fault. I gave it back to you.”
It was a mislaid engagement ring. Now
George remembered with annoyance
that Tina had handed the ring back to
him. “I’m not sure now that I want to
get engaged to Polly,” he said.
np IN A knew that he was dying to get
I engaged to Polly, but she was not at
all sure that Polly wanted to get engaged
to George. Polly wanted only the engage-
ment ring. Tina blamed this paragon
Polly for the great change in her brother’s
character. He seemed to have grown so
far away from Tina and his home.
They lived in a lonely place, a mile
from the village on the flat land beyond
the Burial Ground. In summer it was a
dusty mosquito-ridden place, almost hid-
den among gorse and blackberry canes.
The road was really only a track with
wild manuka and pine seedlings spring-
ing up in ruts and ditches. In winter stag-
nant pools of water formed about the
house. George and Tina used to launch
little chip canoes and catch tadpoles in
these pools. For some years they had
played in a secret bush whare that they
had made among the gorse;, where they
cooked undersized kumaras and potatoes
in jam-tins.
But those days were gone for ever.
Now everything his seventeen-years-old
sister did or said seemed to annoy George.
He thought and talked only of Polly, and
Polly refused to have anything to do with
him until he produced the promised
engagement ring.
This evening her mother, father and
George were going to the pictures, leav-
ing Tina at home to practise her ukulele.
“I’ll have a good hunt for the ring in his
room when they are gone,” she thought.
“It must be there somewhere.”
“And don’t,” said the pouncing voice
of George, “you go mucking about in my
room looking for it, see! When I want
your help I’ll ask for it.”
HTINA hated being alone in the house
1 even in the daytime. She opened the
front door and peered into a strange grey
darkness into which her mother and
father had gone, and George after them.
Fog had gathered over the flats.
She ran into the house and grabbed a
coat —“1 can’t stay here, not alone”
—and leaned against the passage wall
shuddering. She would have to go along
the dark and foggy road by the Burial
Ground.
“Oh, what shall I do?” she asked the
empty house. “What shall I do? I can’t
stay here. I can’t go up there alone! 1
must think —I must think!”
She locked the front door and ran into
the kitchen. The key in the back door
screeched alarmingly as she turned it.
She sat down on a chair in the front
room and held, a meeting with herself in
a palsy of terror. She remembered a girl
at school saying “When I have to go out
alone at night I say poetry. I am never
frightened then.” Tina stood up and in a
shaking voice recited “Not understood we
move a log as under our Pas grow fatter,
bigger, wider as the seasons creep...”
Creep! She covered her face with her
hands. Killer Brains! He lurked in the
Burial Ground.
Once when they were children George
and she had seen his sneaking shadow as
he crept among the graves. Nonsense,
her mother would say, why you children
want to go about frightening yourselves
with such rubbish beats me! But her
mother and father were afraid of spirits,
too. Of course they pretended they were
not, but Tina knew differently.
Her horror mounted as she remembered
the day coming home from school when
she had called out with gusty bravado
“Silly old Killer Brains! Porangi old
Killer Brains! I’m not scared of you.”
And Janey had said “Oh, Tina, Tina!
He’ll get you for that! One night when
you are alone he’ll come and get you.” '
T' HE ukulele fell from her hand, mak- i
I ing a little urgent frightening crash. 1
I’ll make a noise, she thought, I’ll ]
have a party. I’ll pretend there are a lot
of people here. She switched on the
radio and a reassuring voice informed
her that they were now passing over to
relay Parliament. Good! There would
be a lot of talking. She cranked up the
gramophone and put on a screaming
boogie-woogie record. Then she lifted a
chair and banged it up and down. The
noise gave her a little courage.
For nearly an hour she rushed about
the room banging chairs, playing her
ukulele, putting on records, shouting
above the radio and even strumming on
George’s guitar, recklessly twanging a
tune —singing at the top of her voice
“You’ve got another little girl in your
eye.”
Above the din she thought she heard a
knock at the door and in a mad spasm
of terror lifted a chair in each hand and
banged them up and down.
“Hokey Pokey! Let’s all do the Hokey
Pokey!”
“Order! Order! ” said the Speaker’s
chiding voice.
“Put your right hand in,” sang Tina,
“Put your right hand out.”
“Hey!” yelled a voice outside. “Open
the door.”
Tina crept into the passage: “Who is
there?”
“Is that you, Bella? It’s Tai here.”
“Who?” shouted Tina. Of course it
was not her Uncle Tai! He was miles
away, cutting timber in the bush. They
had not seen him for many years. The
man outside was Killer Brains.
There came an appalling thump on the
door. “Open up, can’t you?” cried the
angry voice, and a boot kicked against
the wall. “What’s going on in there?”
“It’s a Hokey Pokey party,” Tina hissed
through the keyhole.
“Is that you, Tina?” asked the man
outside.
“Tina has gone to the pictures,” she
answered in a squeaky voice.
It was Tina he wanted. , Perhaps he
would go away now he knew she was not
in the house. But no.
“Whoever you are, open this door and
let me in, can’t you? Do you think I
have come eighty miles to visit my sister
to have the doors locked on me?”
From the front room came a medley
of voices. “They can’t deny it! Sit down!
Apologise! Apologise! Order! Order!”
Tina put a husky note into her own
voice. “It’s on account of the mad dog,
we can’t let you in! You had better go
away, there are fifty people here already.”
“Look, I’m going to break this door in,
that’s what!”
“Oh,” gasped Tina. “Wait a moment.
Well, look, when I open the door go
straight to the side room and I’ll get
Bella, will you?”
“All right. As long as I get somewhere
to rest. I’ve carted a sack with me.”
A sack! Tina trembled violently. But
she opened the door and the man came in.
He blinked in the lantern light, hesitated,
and was about to say something. Tina
hurried him over to Granny’s old room
and he stumbled inside, tripped over a
fishing net and fell flat on his face among
sacks and bottles beside the chiming clock
that didn’t chime. Was she safe? Tina
locked and bolted the door and stepped
back against the sink. The man had
risen and ndw two angry eyes peered out
at her from the slit in the door where her
father had once thought of fitting a tiny
window.
“Where is Bella? Aren’t you Tina?
What’s all this about? Come here, Tina,
don’t you remember your Uncle Tai?”
“Yes,” she answered. “When I was'
seven he gave me half a crown, but you
are not him. Anyway, I am not Tina, I
mean.”
“Didn’t you say George was here?”
“Yes, but he has to look after the mad
dog.”
“Tell him I want to see him. Tell him
to come here at once.”
TINA ran into George’s room and
hastily pulled his best trousers over
her own clothes, wound a scarf about her
throat, put on his sports coat and slouch
hat, tucking her hair tightly out of sight.
Then she picked up the gun and walked
boldly into the kitchen, keeping in the
shadow by the door.
“What do you want?” She tried to imi-
tate George’s pouncing voice. “You’d
better look out or I’ll set* my dog on to
you.”
“Hey, who the heck are you?” asked
the man.
“I’m George.”
“Well, I never would have thought it!”
“What did you want me for?”
The man endeavored to meet the situa-
tion with an air of pleasant raillery. “I
must say I’m getting a wonderful welcome
to my own sister’s house! I wanted
a screwdriver, that’s all.”
“What do you want with a screwdriver,
hey?”
“You’ll know soon enough, George.
I’d like to know what you are doing with
that gun at this time of night, though.”
“I might have to shoot somebody,
that’s what. You won’t get a screwdriver
out of me, Killer Brains.”
“Well, never mind, I have a knife. A
very handy knife. But, by crikey, when I
see Bella and your dad I won’t ask their
leave to give you a good kick, you cheeky
young porker. I’ll knock your block off.”
A knife! What was he doing with a
knife? Tina rushed out of. the kitchen
and began to play her Hokey Pokey game
with renewed energy. But it was too much
for her. Her thoughts leapt into the future
and the whole sordid drama of Poor Tina
and Killer Brains floated before her tear-
filled eyes. “Tina! Ah, yes, I remember
Tina! Oh, poor Tina. Tina had lovely
hands! Tina is dead, yes, dead. Poor
Tina! Killer Brains did her in! ”
“Au-ee-00-ay!” crooned Tina, rock-
ing herself on her heels. “Au-ee-00-ay!
Oh, Woe-ly, Woe-ly, Woe-ly!”
Eli OR five minutes she held a lone tangi
* over her own dear dead, mutilated
body. What did he want with that knife?
She threw off the clothes that had turned
her into a confident, if cheeky, George,
and went in search of another character.
Oyer a chair-back in her parents’ room
she found a skirt of Bella’s and put it on.
She opened drawers, pulling out things,
seeking for the right clothes —an old
shawl to drape over her head, a pair of
sun goggles with one glass missing, a sack
apron.
The grunting drawers came out side-
ways, jolted along by her shaking hands,
but they obstinately refused to close—
she left them all askew, spilling odds and
ends on to the floor. She coughed pain-
fully as she tottered into the kitchen and
stood groaning over the sink.
“Hullo, Old Woman,” said Killer Brains
affably. “Open the door and let me out,
can’t you?”
“You’ll stay where you are, you old
wretch. We all know you, you devil.
We are ready for you. You’re porapgi,
aquasha!”
“Mad, am I? That’s rich, that is! This
is a madhouse, if you ask me anything.”
“Nobody wants to hear anything from
you, old wretch. What are you doing in
there with your knife?”
“Maybe I’m cutting myself a whistle.
Maybe I’m cutting my throat. But I’ll
tell you this,” his voice rose angrily. “I’m
going to cut a big switch when Bella
comes, and give young George a hiding.
Bella must have gone off her head to let
him grow up so cheeky and disrespectful.”
“George is not disrespectful,” said Tina
with sudden loyalty. “How do you expect
an honest, hard-working boy like George
to show any respect for a wretch like
you?’’
“You go out and get Bella, Old Lady.
By heck, I don’t believe she is in this
house at all!”
Tina fled into the front room and <
pulled off her mother’s clothes. Who
could she be now? She could not think.
The numerous characters had muddled
her mind, and she had now ventured as
far into the realms of fancy as her shat-
tered nerves would allow. She did the
Hokey Pokey with the chairs again, but
it was a half-hearted game—even twang-
ing George’s guitar gave her no courage
and her ukulele now had three broken
strings.
Tina was quite exhausted when, peering
outside from a corner of the blind, she
saw three shapes coming towards the gate.
Safe! Safe! She opened the front door
and rushed to meet them, throwing her-
self into her mother’s arms.
“Killer Brains! In Granny’s old room!
He’s got a knife.”
HER father and George gave hoarse
shouts and ran up the path. Her
mother held Tina in safe, shielding arms,
“Ah, Tina! Tina! Au-e, Tina, did he
hurt you? Did he touch you?”
“He didn’t get the chance. I locked
him in Granny’s room. It’s bad old Killer
Brains! ” moaned Tina.
Her father and George were groping
under the house,
“Here,” said George, dragging out two
pieces of lead piping. “These will do for
waddies.”
They ran through the front door, cau-
tiously followed by Tina and her mother.
Her father unlocked the side-room door
while George stood with his waddy in
uplifted hand.
“Now then, you, come out and get it! ”
Uncle Tai came out yelling for Bella.
“Tai,” screamed Tina’s mother. “Tai!
Don’t you dare to hit your Uncle Tai,
George. } must say it comes to something
when my son and husband attack my
brother.”
George and his father dropped their
waddies, speechless. Tina had sunk to
the floor. Safe! Safe! Behind her open
fingers she peered up at the strange man.
Of course, it was Uncle Tai! She remem-
bered his round, kind face. How could
she have been so silly! He did not look
in the least like the Killer Brains of her
imagination.
“Where’s George?” Tai asked, with a
shadowy sort of resentment.
“Here I am, Uncle Tai,” said George.
Uncle Tai stared at him.
“So you are! Yes, of course, George,
But all those people in there? Playing
the Hokey Pokey, quarrelling, and you,
Bella, sick in bed, and the old woman
sneezing into the sink, and the other
George with his gun”
“Tai, you been drinking, that’s what!”
said Bella. “There was nobody here but
Tina.”
He shook his head. “I don’t get it,
that’s all. Just don’t get it. I’ve had one
or two today but I’m not drunk. This
little girl”
“Get up, Tina!” said her mother
sharply. “What have you been up to?”
“You’d better go and take a look in the
front room,” said George. “Clothes all
over the place, chairs upside down, she’s
broken her ukulele and my guitar”
OUDDENLY Uncle Tai began to
laugh. He laughed so loudly and so
mirthfully that they all joined in, except
Tina. Unde Tai bent down and lifted
her up, setting her on to her trembling
legs with admirable expertness. He pulled
a bottle from his pocket,
“Bella, get me a cup. Three drops of
this’d make a baby mouse walk up and
spit in a cat’s eye. She had a fright, and,
hell, did she give me one! Now I could
do with a tank of tea —I’ve got a sack
of toheroas and four crayfish outside.”
“The knife!” gasped Tina. “What did
you want with a knife?”
There was a little tinkling peal of
Westminster chimes from the side room,
and then the old clock struck eleven.
“I fixed it,” nodded Uncle Tai.
“George and Tina,” said Bella. “Go to
the village and get the Hakas, and every-
one ; tell them to bring bread and flour.
We are going to have a party. Tell them
it’s your Uncle Tai. Tina, put George’s
sports coat on and run, children, run all
the way.”
Safe! Safe! And they were having a
real party. It would last until daybreak,
the talking and singing and eating, every
room filled with laughter and friendly
chatter.
Tired, but happy, she tried to keep up
with George as they ran down the road.
He stopped suddenly.
“Tina, why do you always aict so
silly? Why do you go on so foolish?”
“I don’t know, George! Oh, George,
there is a hole, a little hole in your
pocket. I felt it tonight when I had this
coat on.”
“Why don’t you mend it then? Holes
in all my clothes!” grumbled the resent-
ful, pouncing, unbrotherly George,
“But, George! Shine the torch on to
my hand. Look, I found it in the lining!”
The engagement ring glittered on the
palm of her hand. He gave a cry of joy
and hugged her.
“We’ll go and get Polly first. Oh,
Tina, Tina! I know just how you feel
about Killer Brains and ghosts and spirits.
They are a real bad lot. Tomorrow I’ll
boil up some water and throw it over the
house, that will keep them away.”
Safe! Safe! For ever safe now! Hand
in hand they dwindled into the fog sing-
ing as they ran to waken their friends,
“We are going to have a Hokey Pokey
Okey Dokey .party. Tra la la! ”


EQUITABLE PROBATE
fc „CE NE R A 1.1 NSUR A N C E CO.IT D.
//ecJoff/ce37H73oveen!t y Brisbane
WIHCELIO HOUSE, ANOEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE, COLLINS ST^MtLBOUBNE
Security for your
dependents can
be easily and de-
finitely assured
by a life assur-
ance policy with
Equitable Pro-
bate and General
Insurance Co,
Ltd. Fulfil this
family responsi-
bility to-day.
R. V. PERKINS
General Manager
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. EISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
DOGS NEED CARE
To keep your dog healthy and fit you
should watch for danger signs that show
when he is out of sorts and needs atten-
tion. If his coat is dull, loose or ragged
if his nose is warm and he is moody,
listless or off his food, he is probably
suffering from digestive disorders that pro-
duce these symptoms. Start giving him
Barko Condition Powders immediately.
Jarko Condition Powders immediately.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Fty, Ltd.. King Street, Sydney.
1/6 PER BOX
AT ALL CHEMISTS
EYE LOTION
✓
Missing Friends.
TO the next-of-kin of ALAN VERNON
CAMERON, late ot Rabaul, New Guinea,
electrician, deceased, believed born in New
Zealand in 1895. Deceased at some time
was employed at Dunedin, Gore and
Thames Valley in New Zealand and aiso
in Sydney before entering New Guinea in
1931. Please communicate with the
Curator of Intestate of the Terri-
tory of New Guinea, administrator of the
estate of the abovenamed deceased. ANY
PERSON having information which would
be of value in tracing the next-of-kin of
the deceased is requested to advise the
undersigned.
H. W. HARDY,
Curator of Intestate Estates.
Port Moresby, Papua-New Guinea,
12th December, 1947.
IN THE ESTATE of IDA TOD, late of
Christchurch, New Zealand, Married
Woman.—WOULD LOUEA BISHOP, MAY
ALEXANDER, MAUD D. TRBMAYNE
and ROSE BUSHETT, children of Charles
Richard Bushett, late of Kaikoura, New
Zealand, a half-brother of the said Ida
Tod, deceased, or their children or next-
of-kin, or anyone knowing the addresses
of the said persons, please communicate
with the undersigned.—J. A. FLESHER
& SON, Solicitors, 169 Hereford Street,
Christchurch, New Zealand.
TO the next-of-kin of ■ VINCENT
CLEMENT JOHNSON, late of Kelaua
Plantation, Madang, New Guinea, Planter,
Deceased, believed born at Moree in the
State of New South Wales in 1895. De-
ceased came to the Territory of New
Guinea about 1924. Please communicate
with the Curator of Intestate Estates of
the Territory of New Guinea, adminis-
trator of the estate of the abovenamed
deceased. ANY PERSON having inior-
mation which would be of value in tracing
the next-of-kin of the deceased is re-
quested to advise the undersigned.
H. W. HARDY,
Curator of Intestate Estates.
Port Moresby, Papua-New Guinea,
19th December, 1947.
Divorce Notice.
"iN THE SUPREME COURT OF~'
QUEENSLAND.
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO BOLTON CHRISTIAN ROBSON of
No. 6 Ada Street Concord in the State
of New South Wales but whose present
whereabouts are unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that an action has been com-
menced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane by Writ of
Summons No. 1106 of 1947 by AUDREY
ALICE ROBSON your wife in which she
claims dissolution of her marriage with
you and by her petition filed herein she
alleges that on or about the Twelfth day
of September 1942 you wilfully deserted
her without cause or excuse and have since
continuously deserted her without cause
or excuse for three years and upwards and
it has been ordered that service of the
said writ and petition on you be effected
by delivering office copies of the said writ
petition and the order by pre-paid A. R.
Post addressed to Mrs. Georgina Robson
18 Kennedy Road Austinmer in the State
of New South Wales and by publishing
this notice in three consecutive issues
in the Bulletin a newspaper published at
Sydney in the State of New South Wales
If you desire to defend this action you
must within forty-four days from .the
doing of the last of such acts enter an
appearance at the Registry of the said
Court at Brisbane and in default of your
so doing the Plaintiff may by leave pro-
ceed in the action and judgment may be
given against you in your absence. DATED
the Twelfth day of December, 1947. —
(1.5.) H. R. FITZPATRICK, Acting Second
Deputy Registrar.—H. TREMLETT
FRANCIS, Solicitor, 161 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
T
T
••• 'P
WOLFES
AROMATIC
% " DUE TO
SUMMER HEAT
‘freshen ub
with
WOLFE'S
<zJhromahc
SCHNAPPS
Put the spring back into
your step with an occa-
sional Wolfe’s Schnapps.
Served with iced water,
soda or other cordial, it
is a most healthful and
refreshing summer
drink.
W 5.196.12
mn
n
LIUjIU
FIT FOR A KINO
N HATS
iPD
V
■
Q
„.anotket dependable
TOP DOG
PRODUCT
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Want.
To buy, or will accept as gift, com-
plete file of The Bulletin. Required
for library of a State university. —
4183.
Information Sought.
What is the legend of the Flying
Dutchman ?
The Flying Dutchman is a phantom
ship, which, in consequence of a
murder committed on board, is sup-
posed to haunt the sea in a perpetual
endeavor to make Table Bay. Super-
stitious sailors declare that it is seen
in stormy weather off the Cape of
Good Hope, and forebodes disaster.
Capt. F. Marryat’s The Phantom Ship
and a music drama by Richard
Wagner are founded on this legend.
* * * *
(1) How to get rid of yabbies on a
Victorian property ? (2) Do they
cause much harm in a garden ? (3)
Any danger of their undermining the
foundations of a house?
(1) No way has been found to suc-
cessfully rid an area of yabbies. In
South Gippsland the mounds around
the burrows are flattened out each
year by using a horse to drag a
weighted, heavy piece of timber over
the mounds. If this is not done, the
paddocks are soon covered with hun-
dreds of small bare patches, free of
grass. If the yabbie holes are well
away from shrubs, etc., kerosene
poured down each hole should be
effective, and if the hole is not too
deep, prodding with a short piece of
wire or pouring in boiling water
might be successful. (2) Yabbies
probably do not cause much harm
in a garden, except that the mounds
around the burrows have the effect
mentioned above. Yabbies do in-
dicate that the sub-soil is too wet.
(3) A large number of yabbies con-
gregated along the foundations of a
house could cause damage.
(1) What constitutes an imitation
silver-fox fur ? (2) How to distinguish
the imitation from the genuine article?
(3) How to determine quality of the
genuine article?
(1) Imitation silver fox is known
in the trade as a pointed fox and
cannot be sold as a genuine article.
It is a fox, either Canadian or of
other origin, dyed black, and con-
tains badger hair, which is blown into
the fur with a gummy substance.
(2) Pluck one of the silver hairs and
examine as to whether there is a
gummy substance at the root. Should
this be free from a gummy sub-
stance it could be assumed it is a
genuine article. (3) There are 10
grades of silver, fox from low, medium
to the highest quality. They vary
in price from about £l5 to as high
as £65. Only an expert with many
years of experience can determine
quality.
Brief Answers.
G.H.W.: Suggest that you try some
of the larger Melbourne photographic
studios... .P.J.W.: To obtain a
reasonable standard in the profession,
you should have a university degree
in Arts. At the Sydney University
provision is made for evening lectures
in Arts and Economics which enable
students to complete the degree
courses. You should also inquire of
the Registrar of the University Col-
lege at Canberra, to ascertain whether
suitable courses for you ean be pro-
vided by it. External courses are also
available in connection with the Lon-
don University, which would supply
you with particulars on application.
DJ.A.: Control of docks is
effected by grubbing, or in lawns,
paths or gardens by using a spudding
tool to take the root out complete.
Chemical control may be effected by
spot spraying with arsenic pentoxide
A 5.205 solution at the rate of 1 part
to 9 parts of water. The dock family
is said to be very susceptible to treat-
ment with the various new hormone
substances which are on the market.
J.F.P.; Any stamp dealer should
be able to advise you. If, however,
it is difficult for you to contact a
dealer you could send a few ot the
Van Diemen’s Land stamps to
Tyrrell’s, 281 George-street, Sydney;
the Tasmanian stamps are of very
little value... .A.C.P.: No objection
legally, but there rpay be some objec-
tions from relatives on religious
grounds.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
J.H.A.: Serious verses tolerable,
humorous intolerable... .S.J.: “Can
you suggest any paper which makes
a point of publishing man’s worthy
efforts and paying for them?” But
in what way is your effort worthy?
M.McM.: If you mean “Attlee
says” you shouldn’t need to express
yourself with “Remarks from Attlee
emanate” H.A.M.: “Please review
these headaches.” Well, they are
very nice headaches... .J.T.: Your
good wishes, which are reciprocated,
make it difficult to express a candid
opinion of your verses.,. .K.L.:
Your cockatoo might find a perch
in a daily... .J.A.T.: You are quite
right to burst with indignation, but
whether you should burst into verse
is another matter... .M.A.L.: Two
lines, then:
A poet I would be.
Alas, I was at sea. '
S.S.S.: You’re certainly a trier.
But how and why “sober Sophy” is
“propped up by a hollyhock” passes
our comprehension A.J.8.: Your
last line is beautiful but unprintable.
W.L. (England): Your ode on
the Duke at Canberra may be all
very well, b'ut haven’t you heard who
is there now?
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
A.G.: ‘.‘Let me know when I can
call to collect the cheque.” You can
collect the sketch at any time T.J.:
Buckjumper landed in the basket....
C.F.R.; Some merit in the drawing;
gags need to be much brighter
W.M.A.; That Father Time idea has
had too long an innings W. 8.;
Untidy smudges... .W.S.N.: There’s
too much of the set-square and the
rule about those specimens H.G.:
A sorry 10t....K.A.: Eight—nine
ten—OUT!


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
GREAT DECISIONS OF THE WAR.
Appraising the decisions which had
the most important bearing on the out-
come of the war, John J. McCloy, in an
American “Foreign Affairs” article, gives
first place to that which led to the
winning of the Battle of Britain: “the
British decision, in the summer of 1940,
to reserve out of the fighting in France
a sufficient remnant of the Royal Air
Force fighter command to meet the threat
of an attack on England itself.”
The writer—U.S. Assistant Secretary
of War through the time of the great
decisions, and now holding down the big
job of president of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development—
allows that “many brilliant tactical deci-
sions” were made, by the German military
leaders earlier/ in the campaigns in Nor-
way,. the Low Countries and France, but
for “the first great military decision of
vast strategic importance” he gives the
palm to the British:
With rare foresight a small group of men
in Great Britain had projected the design and
the production of what for that time were
the unusually speedy and heavily-armed Hurri-
canes and Spitfires of the R.A.F. The Force
was tiny as compared with the size of sub-
sequent fighter forces, but within its orbit
—England and the Channel —it was capable of
blasting any existing German planes out of
the air. The finest British military energies
and intelligence seem to have been concentrated
on this narrow field, for in most other respects
the pre-war military planning of the British
was less developed. But, as at the Pass at
Thermopylae, it was just at this point that
the then very limited but special strength of the
defender could be best applied against the
invader. It was the determined and steadfast
opposition of certain leaders of the R.A.F. to
ajjy wasteful use of these planes on the Con-
tinent which really saved the day for Britain.
If the remaining force had all been thrown in
against the general German advance, it would
have disappeared like water on a hot stove
and with about as much effect.
It was applied over the French evacuation
beaches at the end of May and the beginning of
June, 1940. This, in reality, was the commence-
ment of the Battle of Britain, and the air
superiority which this fighter group ensured
enabled 225,000 British and 113,000 French and
Belgian soldiers to be taken safely across the
Channel, out of the very maw of the German
armies, in less than a week. Thereafter came
the heavy German air attacks on England,
commencing on August 8, 1940. Of what
ensued all the world is now aware. But in
contemplating the fine tribute which Mr.
Churchill paid to the fighter pilots of the
R.A.F., one should always recall that homage
is also due those whose hasty but effective
planning gave to the pilots at the critical period
the excellent planes which enabled them to
deal with the German bombers. And to
those even fewer airmen, physicists and en-
gineers who had seen the need and had designed
the means for anticipating the German attacks
through the use of radar should go thanks
as deep.
One decision of a different kind, that
of Hitler to attack Russia, certainly had
very great consequences in the war’s out-
come ; but, in the writer’s view, “the
motivation for the attack on Russia was
so much a reflection of the strange mind
of the leader of the German State and
his unholy ambitions that it is not justly
comparable with the kind of choice which
the military leaders of Britain made in
respect of their use of the Fighter Force
in 1940;’
The Germany-First Decision
“In the case of Russia, as in the case
of the United States,” the writer holds,
“the specific decisions as to war or peace
clearly were made by the enemy.” Be
that as it may, it would be hard to think
of any decisions of greater consequence
than those consummated in the setting up
of lend-lease. At the time, states Mc-
Cloy, “most Americans still hoped to
pursue limited objectives—‘aid short of
war’.” But anyone who has ever looked
into the stupendous transactions must
surely give the decisions regarding lend-
lease as high a place as any, for the
very good reason that the war would
never have been won without it.
McCloy lists as another of the big U.S.
decisions of that period the introduction
of universal military service, never be-
fore resorted to by the U.S. in time of
peace. Of the decisions more directly
concerned with the actual conduct of the
war, the writer rates very highly the
determination to beat Germany first. In
support he contends:
While the Soviet Union was in the war, the
Atlantic approach offered the best opportunity
to destroy Germany by an attack on two fronts
and any respite given to such an enemy as
Germany was dangerous in the extreme. It was
with Germany rather than Japan that the
greatest scientific and industrial war potentials
lay. Moreover, delay might enable Germany
to organise a vast European industrial poten-
tial to support her war effort. It was also
feared that delay might give Germany an op-
portunity to form a juncture through India
with Japan, if the U.S.S.R. could not hold
out Finally, it was realised that perhaps the
chief obstacle to the transmission of any United
States power to Europe lay in the German sub-
marine. All these considerations led to the
determination to treat Germany as the major
threat and, in case the United States became
involved in the war, to apply the combined
energies of the United States and Britain against
Germany as early as possible.
As things turned out, the submarine menace
was conquered none too soon; for even as it
was being conquered, new types of under-
surface vessels were emerging which, through
their speed under water and their ability to
remain submerged for long intervals, reduced
the effectiveness of our existing anti-submarine
devices. Moreover, and perhaps even more
important, any prolonged delay in attacking
Germany would probably have meant systematic
destruction of London and the ports of South-
ampton, Portsmouth and Plymouth by of
the V-l’s and V-2’s. The V-l’s began to
fall on London in the very month that the
ISformandy invasion was undertaken.
Churchill’s Military Views •
Further, regarding the importance of
beating Germany first, McCloy points
out: “When jye consider how closely the
Germans came to having a preponderance
of fighter strength through their more
rapid development of jet ’planes, some
concept of the <* importance of the time
element in the Atlantic theatre becomes
apparent.” The prime importance of
that strategy, he says, was accepted by
the U.S. Chiefs of from the start,
but throwing “the main British and
American strength directly against Ger-
many by an attack from the Atlantic
side” was “accepted with reluctance by
the British military leaders and Mr.
Churchill.” To Mr. Churchill “an attack
through France held the menace of un-
told casualties”:
He seems to have had before him always the
dread prospect of a repetition of 1916 and
1917, when such a vital element of the young
manhood of England was lost in the pro-
longed slaughter on the Somme and at Pass-
chendaele. Though Mr. Churchill’s inclination
was to accept such an operation as eventually
necessary, he constantly clung to the concept
that it should take the nature of a follow-
through after Germany’s grip on the beaches
and in France had been loosened by other
operations.
McCloy does not accept the belief,
much canvassed since the Soviet moves
in Southern Europe, that it was for post-
war political purposes that Mr. Churchill
for a time opposed the landings in
France: “The general impression which
he created upon those who did debate
the issue with him at length and vigor-
ously was that he sincerely held to his
position for what appealed to him as
sound and thoroughly military reasons”:
Mr. Churchill.... did not hesitate to consider
himself sufficient of a strategist and tactician
to be competent at least to debate military
decisions with the professionals, if not to
dictate to them. He certainly did not hesitate
to express military views, and in the light of
his experience in World War I he was naturally
disposed to take a rather dim view of landings
in France or the Low Countries. “Beaches
running blood —corpses in the Channel,” these
were his metaphors and the reasons for his
hesitancy. His later attitude toward the attack
on southern France, as against a landing in the
eastern Mediterranean, may have had some
political motive and his excoriation of “Anvil”
or “Dragoon,” as the attack on southern France
in August, 1944, was finally called, was vivid
to say the least. History should, and particularly
Mr. Churchill’s own account no doubt will,
disclose the full motivation; but pending such
enlightenment we should hesitate to ascribe to
the British position in the cross-Channel
operation political rather than military motives.
Why a U.S. C.-in-C.
That outlook attributed to Mr.
Churchill regarding the menace of
terrible casualties in a repetition of 1914-
18 apparently had some influence in
what McCloy lists as another of the
“most significant decisions of the war —
that an American rather than a British
commander should be selected” for the
cross-Channel offensive. Mr. Churchill,
McCloy states', had tentatively promised
the post to Field-Marshal Alanbrooke,
but “the force of circumstances was too
great to allow this.” For one thing, “the
dependence of success so heavily hung on
the provision of men and supplies by the
United States that it seemed only appro-
priate that the commander should be an
American.” There was, however, a very
different reason:
The United States had not been through
the blood .baths of World War I and its mili-
tary leaders, backed by the full vigor of a
nation, were less impressed by the
difficulties of a European conquest than those
who were steeped in the memories of those
terrible casualties. It was therefore felt by
many that with American leadership the attack
would be pressed with greater boldness and on
a larger scale than might otherwise be the case.
One finds difficulty in finding the words to
suggest this American feeling, since they should
carry no imputation of lack of British will fo
fight or reflection on British military prowess.
Nothing was involved but an attitude of mind
toward a Continental campaign. Whether the
American feeling was sound is arguable, but
it was a factor in the minds of those on the
American side who took part in making the
decision.
McCloy lists the decision “to risk the
North African landings” as “a turning
point in the war.” The plan “was a bold
one —it was reported that General Mac-
Arthur termed it ‘the greatest gamble in
military history.’ ” Despite that view of
it, MacArthur thought it should be
undertaken, and “The success of the
landings threw the entire German effort
out of balance.”
In the same area of operations McCloy
mentions among “striking decisions” of
the war “Winston Churchill’s dispatch of
badly-needed troops and material from
England to Egypt in 1940 and 1941,
while the British Isles were in threat of
immediate invasion and the long passage
to Africa was hazardous in the extreme.”
McCloy sums up on it: “the very bold-
ness of the strategy places it in the front
rank of great military decisions” ; and
he pays an equally high tribute to
another of Britain’s war leaders: —-.
Admiral Andrew Cunningham’s management
of his slender naval resources in the Mediter-
ranean during the same period was not only
brilliant —it ranks with some of the best accom-
plishments of Nelson —but it held important
consequences for the future.
Pacific Decisions
“In this class of brilliant tactical con-
ceptions and excellent execution,” the
writer adds, “are General MacArthur’s
moves up the ladder of New Guinea to
the Philippines and his decision to land
the Sixth Army at Lingayen Gulf, which
led to the early capture of‘Manila. In
the same class was General Eisenhower’s
prompt comeback at the Bulge in the
winter of 1944-45, and his decision to
destroy the German Army west of the
Rhine.”
The same kind of importance that
attached to Hitler’s decision to attack
Russia is given by the writer to the Japs’
attack on Pearl Harbor. Both were in-
stances of the attacked country’s decisions
being made by the enemy. In regard to
the U.S., by the attack on Pearl Harbor
“all incipient doubts and demoralisation,
some signs of which were developing in
the country in 1941, were wiped away
The Japanese move certainly started a
train of events which classes it as one of
the major decisions of the war, but it was
based on even greater miscalculation than
the German decision” to attack Russia.
Diehard isolationist quarters in the U.S.
have resorted to one line of criticism
expressing their hatred for Roosevelt on
which McCloy comments: “In some
quarters there has been put forward the
fantastic theory, advanced with a per-
sistence worthy of more intelligence, that
President Roosevelt deliberately put down
his defences at Pearl Harbor in order to
induce the Japanese to attack. The argu-
ment runs that thus he hoped to counter
the prevalent anti-war sentiment in the
country and, on the strength of the
national reaction to such an attack, freely
enter the war in Europe. This rather
venomous suggestion indicates the ex-
tremities to which it is necessary to go to
find any semblance of positive or overt
action by the United States responsible
for the start of the war in that area.”
Among the decisions of first importance
in the Pacific area McCloy rates with the
highest the order given to the forces in
the Philippines to continue fighting on
Bataan —against the proposal of President
Quezon, who had cabled suggesting that
the Philippines should be declared neutral
and all fighting should cease. Washing-
ton’s response was immediate; We’ll
fight it out.
The writer lists highly in this area Mac-
Arthur’s decision to carry the fight to the
Japs in New Guinea, and the decision
“of at least equal if not greater import-
ance” to land and fight at Guadalcanal
and Tulagi (initiated by Admiral King)
It was obvious that the Japanese were direct-
ing their thrusts down the Solomons to the
south-east in order to cut'the Samoa-Fiji-New
Caledonia route to Australia. The determination
to break up that attempt and fight the Japanese,
ready or not, on that line stands out as great
as any decision of the Pacific war The fact
that it was decided to fight at all on this
scale and with such boldness, in the Pacific,
before any large offensive operations were un-
dertaken in the Atlantic, had a profound effect
on the course of the Pacific war. Moreover,
the fact that the effort was successfully made
at this point, in the teeth of the heaviest
determination on the part of the Japanese to
resist it with all the naval, air, and land strength
they could muster, created qualms in the
Japanese High Command which even the Coral
Sea and Midway losses had not aroused.
In the Pacific fighting the writer also
rates highly the “imaginative decisions”
directing the U.S. submarine attacks:
“What the submarines did to reduce
Japanese effectiveness is not yet fully
recognised.” He adds that “Another
factor of the Far Eastern victory which
tends to be underestimated is the com-
pletely devastating effect of the B-29
bombings on the Japanese cities prior to
the bombing of Hiroshima.”
Greatest Personal Decision
Of the singly personal decisions, no
one will want to dispute the high rating
he gives General Eisenhower’s final fixing
of D-Day and signal for the attack on
the Normandy beaches:
General Eisenhower was the one person, and
the only one, who could make the decision.
In spite of all the force at his disposal, and
all the information he possessed, there were
still vast uncertainties before him. An armada
had once been dispersed, close to these very
waters. Any serious disruption of all the
delicate timing of the Normandy invasion
might mean a great disaster. The success or
failure of this mighty attempt was the “pay
off” for many agonising years of effort and
sacrifice on the part of many nations.
Only at certain intervals were tidal con-
ditions such that the attack should be attempted.
The day first set was discarded because of
weather threats, and on the next possible day
the weather was still uncertain. If the attack
did not take place that day it would have to
be postponed for a prolonged interval. Eisen-
hower had many considerations to weigh; but
he chose that day in spite of the uncertainties.
“And,” McCloy concludes, “it is rather
grim to record the fact that the next day
on which the tide would have been favor-
able, June 19, 1944, the great three-day
storm hit the beaches.”
DRAGNET DIGEST.
Boost for Chiang. Brickbat-and-bouquet
comment by U.S. diplomat William C. Bullitt
in a “Life” article; “Too many Americans,
clothed with a little brief authority, when they
go to China confuse the might, majesty, power
and dominion of the U.S. with their own per-
sonalities and talk down to Chinese who, in
truth as men, are their superiors. In the pages
of history Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek bulks
larger than any living American. He and
Winston Churchill will be remembered together
as leaders who had the courage and will to
rally their countries in their darkest hours.”
* * * *
Good Old George! Taken intact from a
large display advt. in London “Times”:
Well Done, George!
Miner George Weightman, 47, has set up
a North-east coalfilling record at East
Walbottle Colliery, Dinnington Village,
Northumberland. Working a 3ft. seam,
m five shifts he shovelled 152 tons 17cwt.
into tubs. In 64 shifts he loaded 1465 tons,
averaging 22.8 tons a shift.
Above the caption a photo, of George looking
somewhat amazed, and at the foot of the advt.
the impressive' acknowledgment in italic type;
Issued by His Majesty’s Government.
* * * *
Poles’ German Border. After the London
Conference washout Molotov was fairly enough
accused of having used the meeting largely
to spout propaganda that would sound well
to Germans, but on an issue most vital to
Germans Marshall subsequently said a much
more effective few words: “With respect to
the eastern boundary of Germany, the Potsdam
protocol clearly provided that the ‘final de-
lineation of the western frontier of Poland
should await the peace settlement.’ The United
States believes that an effort should b’e made
to establish a frontier which, while it would
compensate Poland, would not become a formid-
able economic barrier preventing Germany
access to food and raw materials from this
eastern area upon which it has heavily de-
pended.”
* * * *
Very Minor Machiavelli. Insisting that
nothing could be more grotesque than the
comparing of Molotov to Machiavelli by “some
American correspondents,” who had pictured
the Russian negotiators in London as “brilli-
ant,” former U.S. Under-Secretary of State
Sumner Welles does a hearty debunk: “The
diplomacy of the great Florentine was subtle
and skilful; it demanded a wide measure of
authority for the diplomatic agent; it was
premised upon a profound knowledge of the
resources and psychology of his opponents.
Mr. Molotov has all the subtlety of a steam
shovel. He is tied by his instructions from the
Politburo. Both he and Mr. Vyshinsky have
demonstrated their profound ignorance of
Western psychology and their inability to recog-
nise the compelling force of public opinion in
the Western democracies. They have not in-
timidated the democratic peoples. They have
rallied the forces of democracy to an extent
unforeseen a few months ago.”
* * * *
Dutch Need Indonesia. —Referring to the im-
portance of Indonesia in the economy of
Holland, a London “Times” special correspon-
dent points out that before the war 10 per
cent, to 15 per cent, of Holland’s national
wealth derived from the East Indies, of whose
exports 20 per cent, went to Holland, while
from Holland came 22 per cent, of their im-
ports. The correspondent adds that “even
with a considerable revival of transit trade
from Germany, which is not yet in prospect,
it is scarcely conceivable that the Netherlands
would ever fully recover in the long run if
Indonesia became a dead loss.” Though Can-
berra’s pro-Com. policy would still strike them
as plumbing the depths of craven idiocy, the
Dutch realise, says the “Times” man, that
“Great Britain is as interested as they in
promoting a prosperous Indonesia without in-
juring Dutch interests.”
* * * *
Future Civil Defence. —A British Government
memorandum sent to local authorities prepares
for “every able-bodied man and woman” in
future assisting “in relief and restoration after
a major attack on a large centre of popu-
lation.” Adding that “the increased destruc-
tiveness of modern weapons makes it essential
that re-establishment of the civil defence ser-
vices should be on an entirely new basis,” it
states that “the objective must be to secure, in
peace-time, services which are fully trained and
equipped to function at a moment’s notice.”
Aims include “a highly mobile, well-trained
full-time force available for use in any part
of Britain,” local forces, mainly part-trained
with some whole-time nucleus, and general
training to fit everyone to “take simple measures
for the protection and care of himself, his
family and neighbors.”
* * # *
Soviet U.N.O. Defeats.—As listed editorially
by N. Y. “Times”: “Russia came to the
United Nations Assembly determined to fight
any reopening of the Security Council veto
question, any plan for an interim committee
or Little Assembly, any plan for a democratic
election in Korea, any plan for an impartial
inquiry into the situation on the Greek fron-
tiers. She lost on every point. She started
with six sure votes and wound up with the
same. She made no converts.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 69—No. 3543
Wednesday, January 7, 1948
BIRD SONG AT EVENTIDE.
"During the year to June 30 the Australia people paid £54/12/2 a head in taxes... Ornithological not fr om the 'Anstralian Eneyclopaedia': 'Pilot bird,
confined to south-eastern Australia; its call resembles the words “guinea a week, a name by which it is sometimes known.'"
“Now, all together, birds—‘Guinea a week, guinea a week.'"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne,
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
UP TO THE OPPOSITION.
The year just beginning will be a
critical twelvemonth in Australia’s history.
Never in that history was there greater
need for united effort to assure the
future, morally and materially, of the
land we call “Australia fair.”
At the best it will find difficulty enough
in withstanding the challenge from Asia
certain to come within the next quarter-
century. Meanwhile there has arisen a
new and ruthless privileged aristocracy:
the privileged aristocracy of the party
member, the bureaucrat and the union
boss, and —because law has broken down
—the blackmarketeer. The standard of
living, that most prized achievement of
Australia’s political economy, is declin-
ing. Parliament as the voice of the people
has become contemptible. The legislature
at Canberra is nothing but the instrument
of a dictator-executive. Gerrymandering of
electorates would be the perfect corollary
to the effort to destroy the trading banks.
The Chifley Cabinet’s excesses have
assured its own collapse, and the event
awaits only the detonating incident. But
there can be no lasting gain for the
nation if the Liberal and Country parties
ride into office simply on their opponents’
failure and leave it at that. The electors
will expect much more ; a constructive
programme of action.
There are at least four messes to be
cleaned up. No Parliament push-button
devices can avail for the job upon any of
them.
Parliament after Parliament has allowed
the Defence Act to lie in rags and tatters
since the end of the war before last. With
compulsion the rule of life in our modern
society, the one exception is the obli-
gation, still recognised by statute: uni-
versal military training of youth. For
the neglect to make the accepted duty
mean anything, the Commonwealth paid
dearly when the second world war broke
out. “Labor” ruined the national army
The Liberals and the Agrarians must re-
store it on the original democratic foun-
dation, but in this vital matter they have
yet to give the country a lead.
Nor has anything come from either
about the restoration of Parliament to
what it was before it gave up control
of the public purse and became a mere
wordy instrument for registering decrees,
often those of a Caucus clique. Redistri-
bution of electoral boundaries will be
necessary, but there is much more than
that in the reforms required. The States,
as partners in the Federation, are shap-
ing for revolt against financial dictator-
ship. “Labor” plans to increase the
power of the city vote, preferably by in-
creasing the size of both Federal Houses.
The hold of the centralised unions over
the central Parliament would thus be
strengthened intolerably. Parliament
would go from bad to worse.
The palpable statesmanlike corrective is
the creation of new States; at least two
more in what is now N. S. Wales and
two more in what is now Queensland.
The salutary effects would be manifold.
Parliament would be enlarged in a healthy
way, both branches would be rejuvenated
by the incentive to new regional interest,
and the Senate would have a chance to be-
come a real States’ House.
This proposal is almost as old as the
Federation. In 1920 “Labor” had a
scheme for dividing the six States into
31 provinces, including Papua and the
Northern Territory. • True, it was a move
for unification; but that did not go
down in the Queensland ranks of the
party. In 1922 even Mr. Forde, then a
State member, moved for the subdivision
of Queensland into three States.
In N. S. Wales during the same period
the Country party conducted a campaign
for new States. But these efforts
beat in vain against the opposition of
Sydney interests and the realisation that,
under the relative clauses of the Federal
Constitution, the initiative lies with the
State Parliament concerned. Colonel
Bruxner finally told the movement that
he understood why similar developments
had come about in the United States
“only by irregular process,” namely the
threat of residents in the hard-living West
of 50 years ago that they would form new
States themselves, and challenge Washing-
ton to undo the job. That was how the
two Dakota States were formed out of
territories in 1889, and how several others
appeared in the ’nineties and as late as
1912. Popular demand was not to be
denied, especially after one bold stand
had opened the way.
Revival of industrial production, hope-
less under “Labor,” can be no automatic
accompaniment of a Liberal-C.P. Admini-
stration. In this field three thorough-
going measures must be undertaken:*
reduction of oppressive taxation (with,
no less essential, the simplifying of taxa-
tion assessment), a drastic pruning of the
overgrown public service, and the intro-
duction {and enforcement) of laws de-
signed to break the illicit power of trade-
union bosses and to eliminate Communist
control of unions altogether.
In this last direction there is no reason
why the Liberals in particular, like the
Conservatives in Britain, should not be
able to present a policy which would win
the support of workers as well as of that
“swinging vote” upon which party
managers have persistently concentrated.
They can offer a fair deal to individual
unionists ; and no “ ‘Labor’ Government”
will or can. But the fair deal will have
to include provision against strikes in
defiance of the Court or of) the Govern-
ment in public services. Big unions have
become wealthy corporations ruling by
fear. They hold themselves above the law.
They allow no audit of their accounts.
Their members know nothing of the dis-
posal of the huge revenues annually col-
lected ip dues, fines or special levies.
Their bosses fly about the world like petty
kings, and order at home stoppages of
work as they wish. There is never any
secret ballot taken among union members
on such an issue, nor does the much-
bullied Arbitration Court insist, as it
legally may, on such a ballot, and de-
pute its own officers to see fair.
Ultimately, as in the United States and
France, Australia must be driven to
counter-action. That stage is very near
in this country. When President Truman
stood up to the striking coalminers, in-
dicted their leader, Lewis, and got him
and the union heavily fined for disobedi-
ence, the strike collapsed. So did threats of
all sorts of revolutionary disorder against
the Labor-Management Relations Act.
That measure outlaws coercion upon a
worker to join some union other than
that of his choice. It protects “local in-
dependent unions” from bigger organisa-
tions. It prevents the expulsion of any
union member for refusal to obey un-
lawful union orders. It forbids the re-
fusal of membership to any man with a
clean record. It requires annual audits
of union accounts. It admits of a union
being sued for damages on striking in
violation of contract (or, as we would say,
of an award). It bans all strikes by
Federal Government employees—here
following a lead given by some of the
States. And, to ensure handling of their
complaints, all unions must file affidavits
that none of their officers is a member of
the Communist party or a supporter of
Communist aims. Similar counter-action
against strikemongers is no less neces-
sary in Australia, and, with a firm Gov-
ernment, it would be no less successful.
It is the duty of the parties now in
opposition to think out some such pro-
gramme, equip its members to expound
it, and go out and preach the gos-
pel. They must stand resolutely for
free Parliaments ; for new States capable
of attending to their own regional de-
velopment ; for the rule of law, with
blackmarketeers and profiteers, Com-
munists and other industrial racketeers,
as the special enemies to be put down ;
and for the swift extinction of spoliation
by taxes. If they convince the people
that they are in earnest in all these mat-
ters and are intent on delivering industry
from the socialisation straitjacket and
on giving wage-earners and wage-payers
alike “a fair go,” as partners in industry
and as taxpayers, they need not fear for
the success of the appeal. But the country
must know what they mean to do, and
must know that they do not mean to
gain and remain in office merely by ex-
ploiting the follies of their opponents;
and there is no time to be lost.
Dr. Evatt's "Victories."
Dr. EvaVt chose New Year’s Day for
the timing of a statement on the glories
of U.N.0., and the immense contribution
of “Australia” (/.<?., Dr. Evatt) to
world diplomacy.
The occasion was “Australia’s” retire-
ment from the Security Council, a body
which, only a little over a year ago, the
doctor declared to be in an “appalling
position,” in which “nothing might be
done,” other than the making of “bitter
speeches,” about any dispute which came
before it, and in which the members were
“always conscious of the threat that, at
the end, the next business will be called
with no recommendation or suggestion
made by the Council.”
His term of representation ended, Dr.
Evatt now claims that there have been
“outstanding” results from the' work of
this pretentious committee of talkers;
above all from the “Australian” tech-
nique of “approaching disputes by in-
vestigation and fact-finding.” He gives
no examples, but several come to mind.
After “fact-finding” by Dr. Evatt and
some of his likeminded colleagues, Spain
was virtually quarantined by the Security
Council. Within a year the Governments
of the Western democracies appear to
have decided that Dr. Evatt was wrong.
His security measures against Franco are
dead, and-the victims of his persuasion
contemplate taking Spain into favor.
History alone can sum up the influence
which the quarantine resolution had on
the western spread of Communism. It
certainly gave great encouragement to the
crowd behind the Iron Curtain, even if it
performed left-handed service in helping
to awaken South America to the Red
danger 'and in creating the remarkable
position that Brazil, whose Dr. Aranha
is U.N.O.’s president, has withdrawn its
diplomatic representatives from Moscow.
A second case in point where the “fact-
finding” technique has produced results
in Palestine. This is Dr. Evatt’s
own personal baby, since he was chair-
man of the committee which recom-
mended —and the recommendation was
adopted—that Palestine should be carved
into bits, so that enemy would never be
out of contact with enemy and that all
■ semblance of national unity in the coun-
try as a whole would be wrecked. Part
of the plan was that the capital should be
handed into the care of a motley collec-
tion of nations, most with little experience
of governing in foreign parts.
The consequences in a few weeks have
been written in blood. Murder stalks
openly through the land. Among the
many victims are Britons, as well as Arabs
and Jews. The partition decision indeed
seems to have sown the seeds of a war
of races which will end only when one
side or the other has been wiped out.
And with the accompanying threats to
the international stability inherent in the
British position in the Middle East, and to
the security of this country, among others,
inherent in maintaining a firm hold on
Persian oil for the Navy and Air Force,
and with the U.S.S.R. given an excuse for
intrusion, the peace of the Mediterranean
has been permanently endangered. Indeed
the danger of another war has been in-
creased tremendously by the U.N.O. reso-
lution in which Dr. Evatt takes pride.
The next case in point is Indonesia.
Here the doctor takes credit for having
provided an exception to the general rule
of Security Council conduct in that “Aus-
tralia secured a cease-fire order.” What
has been done there is something which
no discreet Minister would mention.
First, the friendly Dutch, who stood be-
tween us and Japan, and whose staunch
attitude in 1941 saved Australia from a
direct attack, have been turned into
enemies of the Australian Administration.
They have been treated like pariahs by
order of “Australian” Communist-run
maritime unions which have proved that
they can handle the world arbiter of
U.N.0., Dr. Evatt, by crooking their
little fingers at him.
In two years the Commonwealth ’ has
lost perhaps £20,000,000 in trade and gone
short of motor fuel from the nearest
sources of supply because of the despic-
able conduct of its “Government.” That
“Government” holds the fatuous belief
that the Dutch are so fearful of the
Evatts and their kind that they are pre-
pared to rest the fate of their great
colonial empire on the “fact-finding” of
a Sydney Judge and a couple of other
obscure delegates from small nations,
whose “solutions” will not be allowed
to operate in Australia if Mr. Healy and
the Central Committee of the Com-
munist party disapprove of them.
The crowning case for consideration
among Dr. Evatt’s triumphs is the
Balkan “fact-finding” commission. This
show has been wandering round
somewhere in the Balkans wringing its
hands and asking somebody to please take
it to Konitza to “find” some “facts.”
Hitherto whenever the commission has
tried to go somewhere where crude facts
exist it has been virtually taken by the
seat of the trousers and propelled to-
wards home, or else it has disagreed
violently.
Under its nose, while it wandered round
with pencils and notebooks out and’
propaganda trumpet going full steam,
Albania has been Communised and
purged of “Western elements.” Bulgaria,
Yugoslavia, Czechoslovakia and Poland,
together with Austria and Eastern Ger-
many, have been ground tighter under
the Muscovite heel. A Communist coup
d’etat has been effected in Hungary, re-
gardless of the Hungarians’ choice of
an anti-Communist peasant party at a
free election. Rumania has been seized
and its King has been given his passports,
in his case by a female Kremlin agent
with a bloodthirsty record which, by all
accounts, included the handing over of
her own husband to the tender mercies
of the N.K.V.D.
Finally, under the noses of the fact-
finders, in a matter which concerns them
intimately and directly, forces have been
armed and organised to promote deliber-
ate aggression against Greece, one of
Australia’s allies and colleagues in U.N.0.,
upon excuses of which the shadow is the
restoration of “democracy” in the Hellenic
peninsula. The reality is the intended
addition of a vital strategic area to the
empire of Russia, giving Moscow access
to the Mediterranean, placing Italy under
direct threat, rendering the main spinal
cord of the British Commonwealth sub-
ject to policing by Communist H.Q.
and turning Turkey into a surrounded
helot of Stalin and his fellow-imperialists.
Many a nation would be entitled to a
cynical laugh at the Security Council, and
Dr. Evatt’s claims for it, if they were
allowed to laugh any longer. So “secure”
have all the countries of Europe east of
the Elbe become, more than half the
area of that continent outside the
U.S.S.R., however, that if they attempted
to raise a grin without permission from
Mr. Molotov they would be likely to
find themselves charged before a “people’s
court” with entertaining “dangerous
thoughts.”
They are debarred from laughing even
at an important item on the list of per-
manent administrative officers of U.N.0.,
which appears on page xvii of the States-
man’s Year-Book, 1947:
Assistant-Secretary-General in Charge of
Security Council Affairs: Arkadi A. Sobelev
(U.S.S.R.).
McGirr Sees Visions.
There is nothing modest about Mr.
James McGirr. On the last day of the
old year this “Labor” Premier issued a
bragging statement which drew scornful
laughter from people acquainted with the
facts,
“In the past six months,” the McGirr
boasted, “the State’s wealth has accumu-
lated in a remarkable degree,” and he
had the face to imply that this was
attributable to his having thrown a
spanner into the industrial-arbitration
works by his grant of the 40-hour week
to persons in jobs regulated by State
awards. Actually, the one saleable com-
modity of which there has been a sub-
stantially increased production, leaving
out “Labor” lottery tickets, is wheat, and
it was all up and doing well before the
40-hour week came in. There would
have been no hundred-million-bushel
harvest had the farmers awarded them-
selves the 40-hour week throughout the
cropping period and added to the idle
Saturday time off when it rained, one of
the privileges enjoyed by Mr. McGirr’s
special proteges the wharflaborers.
Mr. McKell’s successor, who must
wear a special make of magnifying spec-
tacles, sees “production,” all production,
“leaping ahead all the time.” The presi-
dents of the Employers’ Federation and
the Chamber of Manufactures sharply
corrected him, and the Manufacturers’
man referred unhopefully to what the ex-
tension of the 40-hour week to Federal
workers, plus the dollar cuts, the Ded-
man tariff and “further socialisation
attempts,” would bring in 1948.
Mr. McGirr failed to mention what his
clients and the community in general
have had to pay for the fulfilment of his
election bribe. There have, of course,
been substantial rises in the prices of
necessaries, with another 10 p.c. rise in
prospect, and the McGirr crowd itself
has charged more for the unspeakably
poor transport services it provides. But
its Health Minister was all there with an
announcement that fees for paying
patients in public hospitals were to
be raised to 18s. a day in public wards,
245. a day in intermediate wards and 30s.
a day in private wards—virtually
doubled, and that immediately. “This,”
commented Dr. Soiling, of the Maitland
hospital, “is making illness a luxury for
people who are already paying huge
sums in social-services taxation; it is
virulent class distinction.”
Here Mr. McGirr’s performance on
Budget Day, November 19, may be ap-
propriately recalled, the time-table being
especially significant:
3.20 p.m.—Mr. McGirr moves for leave
to bring in a bill authorising increases of
£5OO in the salaries of 90 Assemblymen;
additional increases of £5OO in the salaries
of Ministers (16, raised from 14); "con-
sequential increases for the holders of
certain Parliamentary offices,” party whips
included; and “an entertainment allowance”
(£500) for the Premier. Leave granted.
5.42 p.m.—Mr. McGirr introduces the
Budget. Loss on 1946-47 operations
reckoned at £1,849,000. Loss on 1947-48
operations estimated (optimistically) at
£414,600. For, though the Government had
“found it essential early in the financial year
to raise railway freight charges 15 to 40 per
cent, and suburban passenger fares 20 per
cent.,” and had previously raised tram, and
bus fares because the metropolitan and
Newcastle “services” were £601,000 “in the
red,” another transport loss round half a
million was anticipated.
So there was “class distinction” also on
Budget Day, though none of the bene-
ficiaries could pronounce it “virulent”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Keane and Goldberg.
Newspapermen whom the “Labor” dollar
cuts have deprived of jobs—it has hap-
pened to many already, and will happen
to many more —must be musing bitterly
on “Labor’s” huge waste of paper on the
referendum pamphlets to be posted to all
electors and on the dollar prodigality
shown in many other affairs in which
“Labor” has been concerned.
They haven’t forgotten the multitude of
dollar-squandering deadhead trippers.
And some, at least, must be turning over
in their minds what Joe Goldberg said to
Customs men —or what they said he said
—after the seizure of goods intended for
Mrs. Keane, widow of the Victorian
Senator who was Minister of Trade and
Customs for four years and nine months,
and carried across the Pacific in the
luggage of Miss Kelly, of the Australian
War Supplies Procurement Office —then
part of the Keane outfit at Washington.
In the jargon which has come in with
special Federal Courts, whose procedure
doesn’t seem to require arrests, Gold-
berg was charged with unlicensed in-
troduction of goods under import pro-
hibition or something like that. His tale
was that Keane, “a very dear friend” and
prospective partner, with whom he had
journeyed to Washington and stayed at
the same hotel, had asked him to buy
3000-dollars’ worth of women’s wear and
finery, beginning with “a hundred pairs of
nylon stockings,” and handed him the
3000 dollars. In a few weeks Keane was
dead, but Goldberg bought the goods on
Keane’s account, adding another 1350
dollars, indeed “more,” without asking
Mrs. Keane for the difference. The
Keane estate was sworn for probate at
£5OOO-odd.
To a Customs man who expressed sur-
prise at the Minister’s having 3000
dollars for such a transaction, Gold-
berg said “You or anybody else
wouldn’t know how many [dollars] he
had.” Nor does any member of the
public know the whole story. Goldberg
did not give evidence and neither Mrs.
Keane nor Miss Kelly was called by the
Crown. Fined £250 after curious delays,
during one of which he was privileged
to go abroad “on a passport issued- in
January, 1946,” Goldberg applied for a
stay of proceedings, and on this score
debate on Keane’s connection with the
business was burked in the House. Nor
has it been debated since in either branch
of the legislature, though no appeal has
been heard. Goldberg, in fact, has been
allowed to go to America again on his
private concerns, presumably with dollar
credits. Or perhaps, like Mr. John Wren,
explaining his ability to spend the dollar
equivalent of £lO,OOO, perhaps £20,000,
on imports of another colored bruiser
and party, he has “an American reserve.”
The Keane-Goldberg affair looked and
smelt fishy from the beginning, and it
looks and smells fishier now.
"Controls' 1 and Charges.
Australians addicted to pondering on
the immense increase of the Common-
wealth civil service in numbers employed
and in powers exercised—though here
with a ghastly lack of success against the
blackmarkets —were given new food for
thought on Friday.
That day brought an official announce-
ment from Melbourne addressed to per-
sons who apply for permits to buy new
cars and utilities. Applicants, it was
stated, already exceed 70,000 and are in-
creasing at the rate of 7000 a month ; and,
with British supplies indefinite, there will
be only 32,000 U.S. cars and utilities
available this year. The pith of the an-
nouncement was expressed as follows:
People who gain a permit for a new car
may he advised by telegram, like lottery
winners. The Commonwealth Acting-
Director of Road Transport, Mr. A. J.
Deacon, said this, adding that the use of
telegrams would prevent anyone who knew
that an applicant was about to receive a
permit from seeking a “consideration” to
speed it up.
Which means, if it means anything,
that crooks have had ways of learning
that So-and-So (multiplied indefinitely)
was to get a permit and cashing in on
the knowledge. It certainly offers a wide
field of speculation on the ways of de-
partments —or of this particular depart-
ment —which, under “Labor,” have be-
come laws to themselves, and the con-
sequences.
In Sydney on the same day J. S. Garden
was served with three summonses, return-
able at a special Federal Court, charging
him with having forged two documents,
one “issuable” by the Department of
External Territories and the other by
the Administrator of New Guinea, and
falsified another, “a letter, with plan,
attached,” all on November 20, 1945. The
summonses were taken out after Security
Branch inquiries into allegations that a
permit ostensibly granted to a Queensland
concern for the working of New Guinea
timber leases, “valued at £50,000,” was
bogus.
External Territories is, of course, Mr.
Ward’s department, and his administra-
tion of New Guinea —to which he is
supposed to be about to make a long-
delayed visit —has come in for severe
criticism. Garden was his “liaison
officer” (whatever a “liaison officer” may
be) when he was Minister of Labor and
National Service (October 7, 1941, to
September 21, 1943), and was continued
as “liaison officer” by Mr. Holloway when
that gentleman took over Labor and
National Service.
Garden had an office in the Common-
wealth Bank Building, Sydney, head-
quarters of Commonwealth Ministers and
members, and —a privilege accorded only
to persons of consequence in that part of
the building—had his name on the door.
It was taken down just before Christ-
mas when, according to Garden’s state-
ment to the press, he “resigned” on his
own “initiative after the investigation had
begun.” Mr. Ward, he proceeded, “has
not spoken to me about this matter,” and
“my resignation will not affect our long
political association.” Mr. Ward’s state-
ment was that “certain irregularities were
brought to my notice, and the matter was
immediately referred to the Common-
wealth Investigation Department.”
Garden had a First World War ex-
perience as a Commonwealth Govern-
ment clerk, not as “liaison officer.”
Afterwards he shot up as a Communist
leader till he discovered in Mr. Lang
a “greater than Lenin.” As a Lang sup-
porter he had one term at Canberra
(1934-37) as member for Cook.
Northern Odyssey.
Last year the Hill brothers went to
Higgins Field, at the tip of Cape York,
and bought a lot of Army “disposals”
trucks. Then they assembled seven trucks
and trailers, with seven drivers, and set
out on October 4 to haul the load 500
miles to Cairns, aiming at arriving there
on Christmas Day. They made it. The
outfit averaged six miles a day through
virgin jungle and bog, over rivers and
creeks, each unit bearing loads varying
from 10 to 26 tons.
Some days it didn’t move at all. It
had to come to a halt while crews pros-
pected ahead for a passage or built a
bridge or mad© a road. They built more
than 20 bridges over upper peninsular
creeks; they surveyed a road over Ebi-
goola Range ; they spent four days pulling
out trees and snigging rocks with winches
attached to the trucks ; they had to cut
through a mountain spur. They’ve for-
gotten how many tyres they changed or
how many times the trailer units were
bogged. Heavy rain on the Mitchell
meant thrusting through a 12-mile bog.
AH the vehicles pulled through, except
for tyre trouble and some dented mud-
guards. A little over 100 miles from
Cairns they ran out of petrol and sup-
plies had to be sent to Almaden by rail.
The brothers and their men hadn’t
much to say when cornered by reporters
at Cairns, but they said enough to indi-
cate that they had written a stirring trans-
port story across the North. It would
have made a great theme for a film, but
the film people have other interests these
times. Notably the overdone Eureka
business, with a long, lean Parramattan
as the short and stocky Lalor.
In Lotos Land.
The Christmas' holidays were not all joy
for those who sojourned af Lake Illa-
warra, South Coast (N.S.W.), coalminers
among them:
The campers decided to stage a rent
strike. They refused to pay camp-site
dues because there is no easy fishing or
prawning in the lake on account d£ absence
of a channel to the sea. Taking the law
into their own hands, they cut one, but the
sea filled it up again. They then demanded
that the Government should cut a channel.
Contemporaneously Mr. Kenny, of the
Sydney Trades Hall, was delivered of a
great idea in the form of a Million-
Pound Scheme to build special holiday
collections of cottages and guest-houses
at fishing villages (catches not guaran-
teed) “so that workers can take their
families away for holidays without fear of
financial embarrassment.” Not only for
annual holidays, but for week-ends also,
“with transport arrangements enabling
workers to leave the city on Friday night
and return in time for work,” the A.R.U.
permitting.
Straightway Mr. Finnan, the N.S.W.
Minister for Tourist Activities, leapt in
ecstasy at something like a real job to
justify his department. He said the Kenny
scheme was grand. For himself, he would
bring down a bill next session “which
would encourage private enterprise” to do
something. If private enterprise fell down
on the job (as accursed capitalism prob-
ably would) “the State should establish
such holiday centres.”
And who will collect the rents? Would
any “Labor” politician dare to suggest
that the Government should collect any
rent charged? After all, did not Federal
“Labor” politicians kick the Naval Col-
lege out of Jervis Bay and take over the
place as a holiday resort for themselves
and friends? Do they pay rent?
Mr. Haddock’s minute to Cabinet
ought to be worth reading.
Individualist at Large.
He lives at a place called Abergowrie, in
the Ingham (N.Q.) district. There he
owns a piece of land difficult of access.
In wet weather the track, five miles of it,
is almost impassable and there is an un-
fordable creek.
The individualist built a bridge over the
creek. It was washed away, so he built
another. And over track and bridge he
carried and sold 200 tons of potatoes,
250 tons of pumpkins and 250 tons of
watermelons in his last year.
At first glance that doesn’t seem much
to write home about, but it must be
realised that the individualist, whose name
is Capra, absented himself from all the
felicities which “Labor” and “Labor”-
unionism have provided. He has no 40-
hour week, no basic wage, no statutory
holidays (three weeks or a month), no
workers’ compensation, stench-money,
overtime, travelling time or beer with his
lunch. He built his bridges without hav-
ing a ticket in the Bridge-builders, the
Carpenters or the Construction Workers,
and he seems to grow his vegetables re-
gardless of “controls.” Perhaps “controls”
never heard of him.
Obviously a case which will have to be
attended to. This Capra represents a
threat to every “Labor” conception of
industrial welfare and progress. What
sort of a country would it be if people
were allowed to go about building bridges
and growing things in all weathers, and
without having heard of Dr. Coombs or
taken to heart Mr. Dedman’s repudiation
of “little capitalists”?
RETURN OF THE TROJAN HORSE.


mm?-
€
6559
For greater smoking
enjoyment give me
CRAVENA
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
j
POLITICAL POINTS
In Sydney once more, Chifley looked
as pleased as a Kerry farmer all dressed
up to go to the fair after pulling his best
hog out of the bog. His pleasure was not
shared by newspapermen, droves of
whom were being paid off as a conse-
quence of his newsprint cuts, with many
more to follow. “Labor” supporters, too,
most of them. It must be a bitter thought
to many that they might have been kept
on but for “Labor’s” mad squandering
of dollars, directly and indirectly, on un-
needed planes, parts, high-octane spirit
and other purchases of items that would
fill a catalogue, and on a never-ending
orgy of trips, made by deadheads and
other friends who used up dollars like
New York’s Four Hundred.
Chifley turned on the Golden Age stop
again at the New Year, though a little
hesitantly;
Australia can face 1948 with a greater
sense of security Our purchasing power
has a higher percentage of value than
almost any other country... .Production
has reached new peaks With internal
conditions so stable and external policy so
geared, the only disrupting element in 1948
would be industrial dislocation.
All this when inflation has become a
nightmare to thrifty people ; when wages
are in full cry after rising prices, to which
the Chifley policy has given a new spurt,
and when to the strangling effects of
“controls” and exorbitant taxation there
has been added the uncertainty caused
by the Bank Grab Act and the coming
Socialist referendum on prices, rents and
other charges. “The only disrupting ele-
ment,” indeed!
Melbourne began the week without
Bell’s trams and buses, the employees
having refused to work the 40-hour-week
on a six-day roster. If the strike con-
tinues, and if Communists can bring
another off, city and suburbs will be with-
out trains. Meanwhile 100 “student
porters” engaged to tide the railways over
the holiday Christmas rush threatened to
strike because the insolvent department
refused to pay them penalty rates for
Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New
Year’s Day.
For the year to June 30 Commonwealth
tax revenue collected in Victoria
amounted to £133,885,000. N.S.W., with
nearly 50 p.c. more people, yielded
£156,243,000 and Queensland (population
more than half that of Victoria)
£42,051,000. These figures support the
contention of Hollway—and here Cain
agrees—that Canberra is giving Victoria
a raw deal financially. For the same
financial year, Victoria’s share of the
income-tax revenue, £208,296,000, was
only £8,860,000.
McGirr has boasted once more that his
State is building more houses than all
the other States put together, and he has
said it so often that he must believe it
himself. His Housing Minister, the
younger Evatt, asserts that the number of
houses “completed” in N. S. Wales last
year was 13,000. The Commonwealth
Statistician, who has nothing to do with
votes, gives the total for the September
quarter as 2922 in N. S. Wales, 2226 in
Victoria, 1797 in Queensland, 652 in S.A.,
667 in W.A., 266 in Tasmania and 84 in
the A.C.T.; 8614 altogether. He couldn’t
have reckoned in converted army huts
and the like.
In N. S. Wales especially, it would be
hard to find a builder prepared to give
even an approximate estimate of the
cost of erecting a cottage. The price is
cost plus, “and God knows what that
may be” is: the attitude. The “new peaks”
reached by production of screws, hinges
and most other building accessories are
just invisible.
The toasted-bun for the most humorous
utterance of the week should go to
Barnes, Minister in charge of the newly-
“nationalised” British railways, canals
and so forth. Barnes solemnly advised
the public that it must not expect too
swift an improvement in railway equip-
ment and services. What it can expect
and what the market expects, judging by
the rush to sell “rails” three per cents at
par, is a vast annual loss.
The New York “Times,” always careful
and trustworthy, has published a com-
parison between U.S.A. and U.S.S.R.
standards of production in terms of actual
factory work-time:
Time to Produce.
U.S. U.S.S.R.
Minutes. Minutes,
lib. white bread .. .. 7 70
11b. flour 5 79
lib. butter 48£ 642
Man’s worsted suit .. 1570 34,815
This should interest Queensland’s Colin
Clark. That able young man, as one of
a party of world economists, reviewed
some of the fancy claims made in Soviet
statistics and came to the conclusion
that it took the Commos about 20 years
to reach the volume of production
attained by Czarist Russia in 1913.
Because “Labor” doesn’t believe in
titles there was no knighthood for Lord
Mayor Bartley at the New Year. But
the change of Government in Victoria
brought one for Bartley’s opposite num-
ber in Melbourne, Ray Connelly, and
two others in the West were also obvious
consequences of a “Labor” defeat at the
polls. One went to T. L. Gibson, who
has been Mayor of Fremantle for most
of the last 29 years and has represented
his city in each of the State Houses. With
shrewder timing he might have repre-
sented it in the Commonwealth Parlia-
ment also, but Curtin stood in the way.
S.A. Justice Reed, returning his royal
commission to the Governor of Tas-
mania ;
The terms of the Letters Patent neither
required nor authorised me to investigate
any allegations of payments made to per-
sons .or bodies other than the Premier, or
allegations of payments made by any per-
son other than Sullivan or others interested
in any business of carrier of passengers or
goods. It will therefore be appreciated that
the inquiry could not extend to an investi-
gation of a general character into party
funds, transport policy or the political in-
tegrity of the Administration.
This clears up points which were ob-
scured in abbreviated newspaper reports
of the Cosgrove inquiry.
Local option was left out of the McKell
Liquor Act, cynically styled a “reform”
measure. It is certain to be revived as a
lively agitation in consequence of the
transfer of licences from seedy over-
pubbed industrial parts of Sydney where
they are worth little to residential parts
where their potential value is great. A
beginning has been made, and “Labor”
will become unpleasantly conscious of
householders’ reactions before long.
Every motorist who buys petrol is re-
quired by law to surrender coupons cover-
ing the quantity bought, each coupon to
be signed by the motorist and to carry
his car number and fuel-licence number.
All that a petrol seller can do, or should
be required to do, is to see that the
coupons are so marked. Yet because a
Melbourne seller allegedly failed to check
coupons Fuel Board officials cancelled
his trading licence. Such power in the
hands of officials is unjust and tyrannical.
British justice holds no man guilty until
guilt is proved in fair trial. It never
contemplated officials having power to
convict and punish a citizen without hav-
ing to prove their case in open court.
As vain and credulous in his way as
the Dean of Canterbury is in his, Henry
Wallace says he is going to stand for
President as leader of an anti-war party,
and has a Wallace Plan for Europe.
Henry’s main idea is to offer the other
cheek to Moscow in foreign policy and
let it have what it chooses to take from
Uncle Sam’s till. It was Wallace who,
as Secretary for Agriculture, hit upon
the wonderful notion of paying farmers
to kill off their little pigs and plough in
their young corn and cotton. Nature
avenged itself, as it did in this country,
when “Labor” paid Westralian farmers
two millions or so for not growing
wheat.
The long succession of native-born
Tasmanian Premiers has been broken by
the advent of Brooker, who is London-
born and was a Tommy in the First
World War; There are few immigrants
among the present breed of Australian
politicians. It is different in N.Z., where,
according to the “Dominion,” Fraser and
seven of his colleagues (12) came from
other parts, as indeed did 17 of the 42
Labor members in the House. Of the
17 Scotland can claim seven, England
five, Australia four and Ireland one. By
contrast, 37 of the 38 Opposition mem-
bers are of N.Z. origin.
Just before 1947 folded up the Taxa-
tion Department advertised for office
assistants under these conditions of pay:
Salary: Ex-servicemen or unionists £304-
£344 (actual rate) per annum. Non-
unionists: £294-£326 (actual rate) per
annum.
Thus do the Canberra Socialists march
towards a classless society.
Canberra has it that the main hope of
liberalising the petrol ration depends on
how much oil can be got from the N.E.I.
Whereupon a Brisbane wharfies’ union
“spokesman” arose to announce that
wharfies would unload the stuff if it came
here. It would have come here but for
the Corns and the Chifleys.
J. V. Stout, secretary of the Melbourne
Trades Hall Council, was heard at Christ-
mas proclaiming that 1947 had been one
of the outstanding years in the history
of “the movement”: working hours
had been shortened, wages had gone up,
Chifley was in and everything was lovely.
A couple of days later Canberra rubbed
it in that petrol, tobacco, cigarettes, news-
print and motor-cars will be scarcer, the
40-hour week and the lifting of subsidies
will raise the price of butter, tea, potatoes,
medicines, cotton and textiles and
the average worker’s chance of getting a
home of his own is as remote as the
Golden Age of Greek fable —and
Chifley’s.
Churchill has in his time played many
parts, but it was reserved for a South
Australian town to give him his strangest
role—stand-in to an Australian Senator.
The Semaphore held a beach carnival,
proceeds for its R.S.L. building fund.
For five shillings an “Immunity Badge”
could be bought: a relief portrait of
Churchill, plus cigar. The president of the
carnival explained, “We were unable to
get Senator Fred Ward, plus cigar, pro-
cessed in time.”
The Port of Melbourne began the new
year with the acutest labor shortage in
its history. Of 5700 wharflaborers
needed, only 3700 were “available” when
a. waterfront inspection showed 65 ships
tied up and idle. Shipping managers long
ago suggested a reserve pool of labor
which has permanent employment else-
where but could be called on in an emer-
gency for night and week-end work. But,
of course, the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion fixes and enforces wharf law, as well
as directing foreign policy as it concerns
“our Indernesian comrades.”
N’York has had a dress rehearsal for
“a formally constituted world people’s
congress in September, 1948,” to be de-
scribed as “The United Nations of the
Common Man.” No names mentioned,
but the first “objective” is “procuring
public acceptance of an adequate system
of international control of atomic energy
and other possible means of mass destruc-
tion.” Now where have we heard that
before?
In 1947 “our Indernesian comrades”
followed Moscow’s) scorched - earth
policy, with the familiar result —infinitely
more damage to friends than foes. An
Asiatic barbarism, scorched earth was
recommended by fools and knaves to
Australia in the dark days of 1942. Had
it been adopted, and had the Japanese
invasion of the continent followed, there
would have been wholesale starvation.
Onb of those hated trading banks the
National has become interested in the
ticklish subject of timber. Not provoca-
tively, but in a constructive spirit,
as witness these forestry statistics it has
collected;
Forest area, P.c. of total
sq. miles. area.
Canada 1,151,402 32.8
U.S.A 733,539 34.7
Russia 3,667,530 ■ 44.7
India 307,938 27.5
Finland 97,540 73.5
Sweden 89,500 56.5
Australia 30,469 1.02
The Australian figure embraces all
forest areas, and some of them wouldn’t
cut a decent fence-post or a clothes-prop.
The “Times” (6/12/ ’47) estimates that
at British by-elections recently held —
Gravesend, Howdejnshire, East Edinburgh
and Epsom—“the net gain in Conserva-
tive votes was 18,293, compared with a
Labor loss of 4368.” It adds with a touch
of sardonic humor:
Calculations of the probable result of a
general election in which every Opposition
candidate gained an average of 4000 votes
and every Labor candidate lost 1000 votes
have been suggested as an instructive, if
academic, week-end pastime.
A bit of history, history being fashion-
able these days:
William the Conqueror did not take
London; London took him. He was accep-
ted by a vote of the citizens, on his promis-
ing to observe conditions which they laid
down; and those conditions have never
been modified in any reign. We have
peopled America and Australia on the
terms demanded from the Conqueror.
When Americans or Australians build a
new city today they know that every man
in it will have the rights of a freeman,
that every man will have the right to inherit
his father’s estate, and that the State will
suffer no class to do them wrong.
It is from The Children’s Encyclopedia.
The references to Australia and Aus-
tralians will have to be taken out of the
next edition.
Queenslanders haven’t forgiven Mun-
dingburra Aikens for his scurrilous attack
on Dr. Cilento when that eminent scien-
tist was appointed to U.N.R.R.A. All
the same, they haven’t forgotten that the
man is a fighter for country interests' in
his wild way. Going for Hanlon, he
said:
If it is to be a Bumble to advocate the
needs of the country as against the city,
well I have been a Bumble for 17 years,
and part of that time under the banner of
the A.L.P.
Whereupon some “Labor” member called
“And then a rat.” Aikens didn’t miss a
beat. “But never a dingo,” he yelled,
and thereafter was heard in silence.
When or if the aspirations of some of
Australia’s union secretaries for their dear
colored brethren in the near-north are
realised, Australia will need to keep its
relations with Britain as closely knit as
possible and to work for the greatest
feasible unity in policy. For if the prob-
lems which loom in the Pacific and in
Asia develop along the lines which it
seems probable they will follow Aus-
tralian hopes that American aid will be
found on the doorstep in crisis may prove
a blue duck. Already the United States
has shown itself painfully allergic to dis-
putes which arise between white men
and colored men in the Asian zone. Uncle
Sam has enough color problems of his
own at home without buying into other
people’s.
Sydney “Tribune” had an advertise-
ment : “Save time and money—have these
journals posted direct from Moscow.”
There followed a price-list of official
Russian Government propaganda prints,
most of which can be had for the price
of postage or less. Moscow “News,” for
instance, which prints 104 issues in the
year and sells (seven months old) in Com-
munist bookshops in Sydney for 3d. a
copy, can be bought direct for 10s. a
year, or just over Id. a copy. Yet there
are always vigorous denials when it is
suggested that the U.S.S.R. is engaged in
official Communist propaganda ip Aus-
tralia !


A CENTURY
mT&
9
GOtntWIN
1947
PERSONAL ITEMS
The news of Lord Mayor Francis Ray-
mond Connelly’s accession to the knight-
age was nowhere received with such pride
and enthusiasm as at the holiday cainp
for country children at Portsea. The bluff
and hearty civic head has made the estab-
lishment of this camp one of the prin-
cipal activities of his vigorous term of
office. His robust figure is popular down
there, and, as one boy said: “I dunno
what a knight bachelor is, but Ray’s all
right.” Connelly, born at St. Kilda in
1895, and a product of Xavier College, is
a witty speaker. He can even make a
modernist art show jolly. As chairman
of Melbourne’s Food for Britain
appeal, he has raised mountains of pro-
vender for that country. Justice Lowe,
the other Victorian K. 8., is Chancellor
of the University of Melbourne. He was
the commissioner appointed to inquire
into the first Darwin air raid. Menzies
once made the wisecrack that nobody
could possibly be as wise as Lowe looked.
Ernest Augustus Lee Steere, knighted
at just on 82, is a Westralian pastoralist
who comes of an old English county
family. As keen on horses as on
he owned champion Eurythmic, Maple
and Second Wind. Lee Steere married a
daughter of C. Y. O’Connor of the Gold-
fields Water Scheme ; one of their three
sons was posted missing from air opera-
tions in 1940. Another, a naval volunteer,
was lost when the ship in which he was
serving was sunk by enemy action in the
Indian Ocean in June, 1944.
The only Australian award in the New
Year honors list which could be con-
strued as a tribute to aesthetic values was
the M.V.O. which went to Dr. William
Neil McKie, who, as organist and Master
of Choristers at Westminster Abbey, was
a leading figure in the Princess’s wedding.
The son of a Heidelberg parson, he has a
bishop for a brother —the Right Rev. I.
D. McKie, of Geelong. In England T. S.
Eliot received the O.M. and the Sackville-
West lady became a Companion of
Honor,
Lord Moran, one of Winston
Churchill’s medical watchdogs during the
war years—and Winston, quite reckless
of his health, gave them plenty to do-
supplied a footnote to history in a speech
in London supporting an appeal for the
Empire Nurses’ War Memorial:
The time may come when you may have
illness and may not be able to get a nurse.
That happened to me at a place called
Carthage. In that very deserted and desolate
place I found myself during the war with
a patient of 70, a pneumonia case, without
a nurse, without a chemist’s shop, without
a doctor to consult —without anything.
The first night the detective and I shared
the nurse’s duties, and somehow we man-
aged to keep awake. Meanwhile I received
a number of telegrams from members of
the Cabinet advising me what I should do
and what I should not do. One of them
went so far as to ask me, “Do you realise
what will happen in England if you come
back without your patient?”
Physics department at the University of
W.A. will be strengthened by the appoint-
ment of two new lecturers, Peter Jeffery
and John Swan. Both men are graduates
in science, one of the local university
and the other of Melbourne. Jeffery set
out with the intention of doing engineer-
ing, switched to science, joined the Army,
transferred to Air Force, became a radar
officer and finished up in aircrew. Since
his discharge he has completed his
science course and acted as part-time
demonstrator in physics. Swan is a
Melbourne man who won an Ormond
College exhibition at 16 and two
years later was sent to the radio-
physics laboratory in Sydney to do radar
research. Since the war he has gained
his B.Sc. degree and the Curdie Research
scholarship, and has done important work
on nuclear physics.
Retired from the job of Deputy-Com-
missioner of Taxation in Westralia, M.
D. Mears has been a civil servant for
47 years. Son of a South Australian
Customs officer, he began his career in
Adelaide with the S.A. Audit Office, but
when the Commonwealth Civil Service
was established he was runner-up in the
first entrance examination and transferred
to the Customs, thence to Land Tax. In
1924 he became Deputy-Commissioner in
Adelaide and for a short time before his
move to Perth in 1939 was chairman of
the Federal Income Tax Appeals Board.
“Becks” on the Rumanian kings:
The abdication of Michael of Rumania brings
to an end the last Balkan monarchy outside
Greece. Michael’s family has ruled Rumania
since 1866, when Prince Charles of Hohenzol-
lern-Sigmaringen was elected to the throne..
His reign was long and, by Balkan standards,
successful. When he died in 1914 he was
succeeded by his nephew Ferdinand, organiser
of the Rumanian Army and its Commander-in-
Chief in the Balkan War. Although a Hohen-
zollern, Ferdinand joined the Allies in the
First World War, and after the cut-up ot
South-eastern Europe saw his kingdom more
than doubled in size and population. He
died in 1927 and his grandson Michael, a
boy of six, was proclaimed King. Michael s
father, Carol, faced with a situation similar
to that which later the Duke of Windsor found
himself in, had two years previously chosen
Mme. Lupescu in preference to a throne, ror
three years a Regency Council ruled m
Michael’s name, but in 1930 Carol returned to
Rumania and was proclaimed King. He ruled
for 10 years, until in 1940 an Iron Guard coup
d’etat forced him- to abdicate in favor of
Michael. The official reason advanced for
Michael’s own abdication is the refusal of
his Government to agree to his marriage with
Princess Anne of Bourbon-Parma; actually his
throne was an obstacle to the establishment of
a Communist Balkan Federation and he himself
to Communist plans for the conquest of Greece.
Having qualified for holy orders, Garth
Cracknall decided to become a police-
man to see the seamy side of life, saw
what is to be seen of it in Melbourne
from the driver’s seat of a wireless patrol
car. Going from Ballarat Grammar
School to Ridley College, University of
Melbourne, he had graduated B.A. and
Th.L, Prevented by the war from getting
his discharge, he became one of the
fastest and safest drivers of the wireless
patrol squad, and tales about his extra-
ordinary performances are told at
Russell-street headquarters. One is of
the S turn he did on a wet road when
a truck got between him and the male-
factor he was pursuing. He succeeded in
continuing in the reverse direction.
Cracknall will find life quieter in his new
sphere—as vicar of Bealiba.
The alert-looking face with more than
a modicum of Scotchness about it which
Heth’s pen caught belongs to Andrew
Ross, Information Secretary to the
Canadian High Commissioner’s office
at Canberra. Ross has crowded a
lot of newspaper experience into his
33 years. Before he joined the
Canadian Expeditionary Force in 1943
CANADIAN NEWSMAN.
he had held editorial positions in
Toronto and Halifax with Canadian
Press Newsagency and its radio news
service, Press News. Not long after he
joined the Army he was transferred to
the Intelligence Corps and served at
Ottawa Headquarters and later with
S.H.A.E.F. in Britain and France. When
peace came he went back to Canadian
Press as Parliamentary reporter and two
years ago joined the Canadian Informa-
tion Service, now part of External
Affairs. He arrived in Australia a couple
of months ago.
Herewith Frank Burgess (“Bulge”)
Eldridge, M.A., caught by Woolcott at
his farewell dinner in the wardroom,
Flinders Naval Depot. He became an
instructor in 1914, when Osborne House,
Geelong, was the home of the R.A.N.
College. Since then he has devoted his
life to the embryo N.Os., and can give
you a detailed history of the 600-odd lads
who have passed through his hands from
NAVAL SCHOOLMASTER.
Rear-Admiral Collins to the latest cadet
to enter the college portals. As honorary
librarian he has made a comprehensive
collection of books. History has always
been his love, even before he took first-
class honors in 1912 at Sydney University,
and no one in this country can match
his knowledge of naval history
Eldridge’s first book, The Background of
Eastern. Sea-power, published m 1945, is
a masterpiece of research, and another
publication is on the slips which will deal
with the history of the R.A.N. College at
Osborne House, Jervis Bay and Flinders.
Commodore Showers, a member of the
original college staff, proposed Bulge s
health at the farewell banquet, and every
graduate will wish him pleasant retire-
ment.
Sir Thomas Hunter, a donor of
£lO,OOO to N.Z.’s National Dental School,
which he has helped from its foundation
to encourage research into dental
diseases, i$ a native of Dunedin,
where he was born 74 years ago. He
was one of the prime movers in the
establishment of a Dental Faculty at the
Otago University, and during the First
World War was Director of Dental
Services, N.Z.E.F., being awarded a
C.B.E. He was knighted last June.
In the export trade in brains Maoriland
used to have an unfavorable balance with
the U.K. Now a trickle favorable to the
Dominion has set in. In addition to the
return of Dr. R. R. Nimmo, an Otago
Uni. graduate who was associated with
Dr. Oliphant during the war, C. H. Wat-
son Munro, an atomic-research scientist
who superintended the erection of the
first Harwell pile in Britain, and Dr. E. L.
Robertson, a distinguished geophysicist
at the Imperial College of Science, are
coming back to give their native land the
benefit of their knowledge.
An index of the rising cost of living is
the Victorian National Gallery travelling
scholarship worth £3OO once, and £9OO
now This year’s winner is an ex-
serviceman Rehabilitation student, Doug-
las Green, a commercial artist before
the war who was with a survey unit in
the Philippines and New Guinea and went
to the Gallery when demobbed. He is a
rmrdl nf Alan Sumner The winnins
pupil ol Alan bumner. me winning
picture, a canvas of travellers in a rail-
way-carriage, is of the sort that would
have made the late Bernard Hall see
red Judges were William Dargie, Miss
Prip Thake Douelas Dundas and
Bale, Lnc make, uougtas umnaas an
Daryl Lindsay; selection was by ballot.
Visiting Maoriland after 27 years’
absence, L. B. Thomson, 0.8. E., superin-
7° T ,’f xt,- f.Jpnt Fvnprirnpntal
tendent of the Swift Current Experimental
Farm, Saskatchewan. A native Ot
Blenheim, he is touring the Dominion on
behalf of the Canadian Department of
Agriculture, and will study research prac-
f T
tices and pick up whatever N.Z. expeits
in agriculture are able to impart. Later
he will tour Australia.
Eric K. Shell, new Queensland man-
ager of A.8.C., was secretary to the
Associated Banks in Victoria when he re-
signed 14 years ago to become secretary
to the general manager of the Commis-
sion ; since then he has held executive
jobs in all the-Eastern States. He is a
graduate of Melbourne Uni. in Arts and
Law and represented the university at
cricket, baseball and boxing. During the
war he put in four years with the
R.A.N.V.R.
Jack Pinches, Healesville Sanctuary’s
new director, hopes to obtain a complete
range of rare Australian birds with the
New York Zoo’s 1000-dollar grant given
in return for David Fleay’s work in
acclimatising three platypuses to Ameri-
can conditions. He intends to buy and
breed from rare Australian parrots in
danger of becoming extinct. Finches and
tree-climbing kangaroos are also on the
“wanted” list. Lately Pinches has been
spending three nights a week in ranges
adjacent to the sanctuary seeking new
birds.
Retiring in Melbourne at 66, after 26
years with the Commonwealth Marine
Branch, Richard Stark, engineer, ship
surveyor and examiner-in-chief of en-
gineers for Australia. Stark has seen
fashions in engines change from steam to
turbine and gas-driven Diesel motor, and
thinks that the new steam-turbine engine
will seriously challenge the Diesel. He
has examined up to 2000 marine engineers
for their British Board of Trade certifi-
cates and has had varied assignments,
from surveying the Queen Mary and
Queen Elizabeth in Sydney Harbor dur-
ing war-time to inspecting the gum-tree-
burning boilers of paddleboats on the
Murray. He was a p.-0.-w. in Germany
in the First World War.
Lighthorsemen of the war before last
made part of the great throng who paid
their last respects to Colonel Arthur
Wellesley Hyman, 0.8. E., V.D., who died
at 67 on the last day of the old year. He
was in the Light Horse before 1914,
naturally enough as a good Australian of
New England, and landed with the 7th
on Gallipoli as brigade machine-gun
officer. After that campaign he was on
the staff of the 4th Infantry Division in
France as legal officer, and towards the
end of the war on General Monash’s staff
on Corps H.Q. On return to Australia
he plunged himself into every movement
to keep alive the traditions of the A.1.F.,
and served for many years on the execu-
tives of the R.S.L., the United Service
Institution and Legacy (of which he was
one of the founders). He was for 25
years vice-president and four years presi-
dent of the League, president of the
Jewish War Memorial —also of the Jewish
Historical Society, the Bondi Surf Life-
saving Club and the Armidale School Old
Boys’ Union. That he was a life-member
or trustee of nearly every one of these
institutions was a mark of his unstinted
services in their cause. He maintained
to the last his Light Horse associations,
and on the outbreak of World War II was
legal officer with the Ist Cav. Div. His
friends believed that he never really re-
covered from the loss of his only son by
drowning in the early ’thirties, and an-
other great blow to him was the termina-
tion of his appointment as chairman of
the Repatriation Tribunal in Melbourne, a
work into which he spent all the energies
in the last few years of his life.
Into the Silence:
Passed on, at 74, Mark Fagan, Speaker of
Maoriland’s Legislative Council since 1939.
Born in Tasmania, he mined in every Australian
State Before crossing to New Zealand. Asso-
ciated with the Labor movement most of has
life, he was elected to the Council in 1930.
A nephew is Tasmania’s Attorney-General.
In Melbourne, at 73, Valentine John Saddler,
director of Younghusbands and former chair-
man of directors of Silverton Tramway Trust—
his father’s firm, Baxter and Saddler, built the
railway about 60 years ago.
In Sydney, at 75, George Septimus Fisher,
founder of the Sanitarium Health Food Co.
and a prominent Seventh Day Adventist. Born
in London, he came to Australia in 1889.
In Adelaide, at 67, Harry Sumner Hatwell,
twice Mayor of Thebarton and a member of
its Council for over 30 years. He was a former
chairman of the Municipal Association, a direc-
tor of Adelaide Co-operative Stores and had
been president and secretary of the Federal
Master Painters.
In Sydney, Dr. Huff Johnston, ear, nose
and throat specialist and an honorary medical
officer of several Sydney hospitals and many
charitable institutions. Canadian-born, he came
to Australia as a boy.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”: Regularly every Christmas
Sydney citizens who have reached years
of indiscretion leave the comforts of their
homes to joust with mosquitoes, sand-
flies and blowflies, to drink smoked tea
and chew frizzled-up pieces of charcoal
that once were recognisable as lamb-
chops, to doss on camp-stretchers the
wires of which howl like a choir of the
damned whenever their occupants turn
oyer in what they hope is a sleep, lo
enjoy sand with their lettuce and join
the never-ending battle with the ants,
and as regularly these hardy seaside tent-
dwellers spend the last day or two of
their “holiday” slogging around in a foot
or so of water retrieving household
utensils that have been swept away in
the inevitable deluge. Some of them have
lived for half a century in this city with
its uncertain early-summer weather, yet
the next holidays will see them madly
packing for the same old battle with the
blowfly, the same old regatta through the
sodden tent. My theory is that they’re
impelled to go for fear their neighbors
will think they’re not “tough.”
* * * »
“Clooter”: When mine eye first fell
upon the statement of the Queensland
economist, Colin Clark, that if the upward
surge of prices kept on in 1948 it would
be a “black year for housewives,” I was
a little sceptical, since economists fill me
with that vague prejudice of the average
bloke against anything he doesn’t under-
stand. But doubts were dissipated by a
Melbourne statement that corset-making
would practically cease this year because
of the dollar cuts, and a Brisbane report
that women rushed the corseteries in a
panic as soon as they opened. A mental
vision of my own better half sans corset
convinces me that Clark was right—no
housewife, except the very young, could
venture to town for the family shopping
without the reinforcement which, despite
being a matter for male humor, is as
necessary to a woman as his shaving-
brush to her husband.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”; Even in the geography of
their own country city papers com-
mit unforgivable boners. I could pass
“Corangie” for Cowangie when an in-
fanticide charge hit the front pages, but
what about this?:
Fire Spreads in Wimmera Crop.
Melbourne, Tuesday. A 20-miles-an-
hour north wind is fanning a fire aniong
crops four miles from the Wimmera town
of Nullawil. An appeal to firefighters
from Swan Hill, about 30 miles away, has
been issued.
Nullawil, on the Sea Lake line, is no
more a Wimmera town than Wollongong
is a Blue Mountains town. Swan Hijl is
more than 40 airline miles away, Bjrchip
is about 15. One of these days some city
reporter will call Murrayville a Murray
town and there’ll be a howl of protest
from every municipality from Albury tf)
Encounter Bay.
* * * *
“V. Chase”: Soon after dark the other
night a stranger walked into our front
yard. At the gate stood a strange man
and woman. The intruder peered at the
lighted windows of my neighbor. He
withdrew to our gate, conferred with the
other two, and re-invaded our property.
“Are you looking for someone?” I asked,
from a vantage point on the front veran-
dah. The man at the gate answered. “Oh
no, ve wos shoost look at der house ;
dank you ver’ mooch.” The nearer man
backed to the gate, faced me, lifted his
hat in an elaborate salute and all three
departed. Next morning I told my neigh-
bor. He laughed lightly. “They’re
your new neighbors. We’ve sold ’em the
house.” But what am I going to do
with neighbors who raise their hats to
me?
* * * *
“Macnell”: Enthusiastic writers ex-
tolling the use of radar for navigational
purposes are apt to imply that the
Master’s seagoing worries are over. But
navigation is still hazardous, and always
will be. There are many factors
which can render radar unreliable.
Sets can range on a veil of rain,
which could make a skipper alter
"I'll Watch you put out your volcano when we've found your uncle.”
course to avoid this diaphanous echo and
run instead into a solid cliff. A rock
ahead of a vessel can be completely
“swamped” by echoes from a land mass
further back. High waves round a ship
can cause so much “grass,” or masses of
echoes, that another ship can be com-
pletely missed on the screen. Writing
boys should note the words of a British
admiral of the Pacific fleet: ■ “It is a
common belief that radar is infallible.
Though a truly wonderful device, it does
not completely supplant the eyes.”
* * * :|c
“Hamfat”: A recent article made re-
ference to “a full-blooded American
Indian who came to Australia with Cap-
tain Slocum in the war-canoe Titikum.”
The magnificent specimen of humanity,
mostly bareness, paint and feathers,
adorned the entrance of the Slocum show
when I met it in Auckland (M.L.). When
I asked him about the friendship that
had developed between his brethren and
the palefaces he said “Ugh!”—“Ugh!”
being the accepted response of the
American Indians when they are talkative.
He said “Ugh! ” to every other remark
offered until I said that I would like to
buy the Noble Red Man a drink if the
Noble Red Man drank. Then he said
“Begorra, lave it for me at the pub ; Oi’ll
hav ut directly I finish me turn.”
* * * «
“ ’Any Garto” (from Japan): Had our
first really solid fall of snow the other
night. Came the dawn, and the yuki
covered the countryside. All the kids,
fresh from Australia, were milling in a
mad mass on the parade ground, heartily
hurling snowballs at each other. It was
the first .time they had ever seen it.
Wasn tit lovely stuff? But after a few
more falls it’ll be to them as it is to the
old hands now: “That damn’ stuff again.”
* * * *
“Findy”: An advertisement in “Situa-
tions Vacant” caught my eye; “Barmaid,
Lazarette Lounge, modern city hotel.”
I know modern city hotels claim to cater
for all classes, but the announcement
amazed me a little. Dictionaries con-
firmed my belief that a lazarette was “a
pest-house; a hospital for contagidus
diseases, especially leprosy ; a building or
ship used for quarantine purposes,” and
brought to my mind a picture of a charit-
able publican who had set aside a portion
of his premises where the unfortunates
who in Biblical days went around ringing
a bell and crying “Unclean, unclean’’
could get a cooling draught. A truly
Christian act, and the barmaid who
took on the job of ministering to
their needs would be a paragon of
her profession. I rang the number
mentioned in the advertisement. The
publican dispelled my vision, but
sounded a good bloke nonetheless and
offered to cool my parched throat, leper
or no leper, next time I chanced his way.
A lazafette, he informed me, is the small
glassed-in cubicle in the centre of a bar
from which a barmaid hands out drinks.
I thanked him and reached for the dic-
tionary again to find “[nautical] a space
between decks, used as a Storeroom.”
Memory stirred and recalled a line from
Masefield’s “Spanish Waters”; “Longing
for a long drink, out of silver in the ship’s
cool lazareet.” Masefield should know
his ships and his bars; he served his
time in both.
* * * *
Blue P.”: Before “Hamer* rushes to
conclusions about the cause of his
suburban pine-tree having the boughs
shorter on one side “as if a scythe had
cut them away” (B. 31/12/’47) let him
make sure the tree isn’t on a double-
decker bus route. Out our way most of
the trees that flank the bus routes have
been pruned by the-sides of passing buses.
Some of them’ are as neatly trimmed
vertically as the wilgas outback are
trimmed horizontally by high-reaching
sheep.
* * * *
“Waddlin’ Willie”: When the Wyatt
Earp left for the Antarctic she carried
a faded and tattered R.A.A.F. ensign that
new at the South Pole when Mawson took
his expedition south in ’29. It was a
gift from the expedition commander
Group-captain Stuart (“Doc”) Campbell,
to the Catalina Club, which in turn gave
it to one of the R.A.A.F. pilots to take
south again. As the present expedition is
preparatory to a major expedition to the
South Pole in 1950, the R.A.A.F. hopes
that with a bit of care the flag will fly
a third time in the remotest part of the
world. But the Wyatt Earp is on its way
back.
* * * •
“Dong”; Annually a lady who can fib
more beautifully than most can tell the
truth gathers together the samples of
Christmas cakes and puddings sent to her
by friends. She wraps them up again
and posts them off, taking care that no
piece of cake or pud. will come home to
roost with the person who sent it. It is a
good scheme as she does not eat sweets
herself, and her little notes of thanks like
“I enjoyed your cake immensely, try this
piece of mine,” have gained her the repu-
tation of being a fine cook. This year the
system broke down. “A terrible mix-up,”
she explained. “A puff of wind scattered
my little paper slips and I had to guess.
Now I’ve found that I sent to Fanny
the same piece of almond-iced cake she
sent me. And I’ve written to Agatha
thanking her for the gorgeous pudding—
she really sent me cake—and Agnes,
whose pudding was a masterpiece, I’ve
thanked for cake. Next year I’ll do some
cooking myself.”
* * * *
“Lawnston”: Holding a brief in his
hand, with real spectacles on his nose and
clad in wig and gown, Albert Ogilvie,
one-time Premier of Tasmania, will soon
be standing in effigy on Parliament
Square, Hobart, pointing an insistent
finger at the waterfront. The statue is at
present on view at a foundry in Carlton,
Melbourne, the largest statue cast in
Australia since the Burke and Wills monu-
ment in Spring-street came out of the
moulds 82 years ago. Stanley Hammond,
the sculptor, started the work in 1941,
after visiting Hobart to get data about
his subject. Four years in the armed
services interrupted his modelling, and
the casting and assembling occupied
nearly two years.
* * * *
“Mid-Channel”; Verbal slips (B.
17/12/’47)? In the Bankruptcy Court
counsel was appearing for a bankrupt
making application for a. certificate of
discharge. The official assignee had sub-
mitted, among other grounds for suspen-
sion of the certificate, that the bankrupt
had “contracted debts without reason-
able or probable grounds of ex-
pectation of being able to pay them,” and
“had, been guilty of rash and hazardous
speculation.” When counsel for the
bankrupt rose he submitted most em-
phatically that the bankrupt had not
been guilty of “hash and razardous specu-
lation.” The Court laughed and the
bankrupt got off with a day’s suspension.
* * * *
“L.P.”; While we both waited to see
the lawyer I meditated over my crime.
Could old Scroggins influence the Bench
to break it down a bit and, above all,
could he fix it with the editor to have my
name left out of the local rag? When
a businessman gets caught in a pub after
hours customers may take a dim view of
things. The other fellow chatted away
gaily whenever he got my ear. Judging
by his demeanor he had no major
troubles on his mind. Then the clerk
announced that Mr. Scroggins was very
busy and asked if we could call again.
I spilt my tale of woe and was told to
come back tomorrow. The other fellow
was easier. “It’s O.K. with me,” he told
the clerk. “Any time before Court day’ll
do. It’s only about a charge of sheep-
stealing they’ve nailed me on.” He’s now
doing two years; I brought a quid.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: No need to go to the
East (B. 10/12/’47) to see pigs under the
influence of narcotics. In some parts of
Victoria the old Saxon practice of mead-
making has not been lost. After the
honey-wine has been decanted it is usual
to feed the dregs to the “gintlemin who
pay the rent,” with the result that
they become literally very drunken swine.
Unable to hold their liquor like gents
the pigs become verbose, bellicose and
cqmatose in turn. After complete col-
lapse they snore in a slumber beside which
that of any opium-lulled Malayan porker
is as a catnap in comparison.
* * * sjt
“Nakh”; A 30-year-old ex-serviceman
in Victoria, faced with the problem of
making a living and at the same time
having a pleasant occupation, has shown
imagination. He took a rehabilitation
course in hairdressing, bought a caravan,
subdivided it into a bed-sitting-room, a
kitchen and a barber’s shop with all the
latest electrical equipment, and now fol-
lows the population exodus to holiday
resorts shaving chins and trimming hair.
Holidays over he will sfet his course for
rural areas of seasonal employment.
* * * *
“Minto”: “It’s not the heat, it’s the
humidity” would go close in a contest
for the most hackneyed expression about
the weather; “it’s a different kind of
heat” should run a place. In Adelaide
during an Australia-wide heat blitz the
Croweaters could nst be convinced that
other States were suffering similar dis-
comfort, everyone insisting “They have a
different kind of heat over there.” When
I arrived in Brisbane I found the Banana-
landers also sorry for themselves, but re-
ports of record southern temperatures left
them unmoved. The only one happy
about the heat was a stoker on the ship
that took me north. Shovelling away in
a temperature around the 150 deg.-mark,
he ignored the discomfort. “It’s a dry
heat,” he grunted.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The dreadful epidemic of
infantile paralysis which struck Victoria
in 1937 may have had one good result: it
may have developed a general immunity
of people against fresh attacks. For every
case diagnosed during that time it was
estimated that 50 people had had the
germ but did not know it—they had
merely felt off-color. Medical experts
calculate that cases in Victoria this year
will probably not be more than 100.
Which explains why the Chinese, who
are periodically swept by appalling epi-
demics and have no medical service or
preventive science to speak of, aren’t
exterminated by them. I was in China
when it was attacked by pneumonic
plague. Walled city after walled city fell
to the Manchurian invader, and all the
authorities did was to call out the militia,
throw a cordon round the infected city
and shoot anybody who attempted to
get out. The disease claimed a few
thousand victims and then died out.
It is the same with smallpox, which
is endemic in most parts of China.
According to some authorities, Australia,
by its efficient quarantine, has been so
long free of certain classes of diseases
that if they happened to creep in the
germs would have a clear run because
nobody has developed resistance against
them.
MORE ABOUT MARS.
“American astronomers report the - ' discovery that
the planet Mars has nearly twice the amount of
carbon dioxide —one of the three essentials of life —
that exists in the earth’s atmosphere; also that large
areas turn green with the changing seasons, suggest-
ing some form of vegetation.”
From year to year these master-minds of science
Who scan the firmament and check the stars,
Equipped with every improved appliance,
Send out new details and particulars
And evidence that merits full reliance
Upon the subject of the planet Mars,
To start fresh speculations whether or not
Life may exist on that much-canvassed spot.
Straight lines, we once were told, viewed from
the distance,
Bearing a strong resemblance to canals
Were obviously signs of the existence
Up there of something more than animals,
Which helped to give the theory assistance
We yet might greet the Martians as pals,
And not as Frankenstein monstrosities
Enshrined in H. G. Wells’s recipes.
But these “canals,” it seems, are no construc-
tion
Of human hands—mere tangents from the
Poles, »
Phenomena of natural effluxion
Remote from all mechanical controls.
Still, other things provide a safe deduction
There may be bodies, possibly with souls,
Yearning to bridge the void and break the bars
That block communion between earth and
Mars.
They’ve better hopes, one gathers, of eluding
Some jars of life through which we all must
pass,
Through various amenities, including
(It would appear) carbonic acid gas,
And verdant pastures that defy denuding
Of wheat and maize and barley, oats and
grass,
Or whatsoever crops may correspond
To things like these in their obscure beyond.
On with your work, you chaps who find material,
While all we fall on sleep, to put us wise
To all the wonders of the realms aerial,
You birds who wrest their secrets from the
skies!
The more we learn from you of things ethereal,
The sooner will the kindly urge arise
To turn mankind to something different from ■
The exploitation of the atom bomb.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Jasby”: The two bobby-soxers walked
down the Wynyard (Sydney) ramp ahead
of me dressed in what co-ed films and
Yankee comic-strips had led them to be-
lieve was the height of fashion for the
well-dressed young-lady-at-ease. Their
Sloppy Joe sweaters would have hung
loosely on a heavyweight wrestler, and
their pedal-pushers, into the pockets of
which their hands were thrust, were a cross
between the plus-fours their fathers
affected a quarter of a century ago and
the bloomers their grandmothers wore a
little earlier. I glanced at their faces as I
passed ; each bore the expression peculiar
to the female of the species when she
feels that her attire is just what the occa-
sion demands. A few minutes later we
were sitting in the same railway compart-
ment. I was reading the evening paper ;
so were they. The exalted look had left
theip faces ; possibly they had found the
U.S. news item I was reading. It an-
nounced that Gibson Girl fashions had
become the rage at American colleges ;
co-eds were crowding the campuses
dressed in blouses, long skirts, wasp-
waists and heeled shoes. Fashions ain’t
fair!
* * * *
“Tetapi”; According to our char, the
comet, alleged by Chicago astronomers
to have broken in two because it foolishly
went too close to the sun, was sent as
a Christmas lesson on the impermanency
of political institutions. It probably
started on its erratic circuit two million
light-years ago, in another two million
might have consolidated itself sufficiently
to become the satellite of some other
body, in a few more aeons might have
become the venue of some form of life
like the amoeba which eventually would
have evolved into a President Truman
announcing to the new world that there
won’t be any more wars unless somebody
besides himself starts trying to make
atomic weapons. On the other hand, had
our luck been different this world of ours
“I don’t care what the paper says—I still prefer the longer hemline .”
might have been nipped in the bud in its
young days just like the comet, in which
case we wouldn’t have had Mr. Chifley
teaching the nation by precept that it
ought to conserve petrol and providing
the example of spending 3000 gallons on
a holiday jaunt to New Zealand to medi-
tate on the expropriation of the banks
or something by the restless mud-pools
of Rotorua. Those weren’t her exact
words, but it was the gist of her dis-
course.
* * * *
“Xenexer”: Renewed use of white
paper for The Bulletin cover reminds
me that it was a minor tragedy in every
A.I.F. camp in the Middle East when
the same thing happened during the war
years. Entry to the pictures was by a
red ticket, and as red Bulletin paper
wore out troops were driven to the
desperate pass of having to pay for ad-
mission. Our unit issued a routine order:
“In future every soldier will pay for
and carry his own ticket of admission
to the pictures. Troops will not get into
a queue, force themselves past the door-
keeper and say, ‘The chap on the end has
the tickets, George.’ ”
* * * *
“Brolga”: With a belated Sydney
summer comes the good old topic—sum-
mer dress for men. I’ve just discovered
why all attempts to originate a sane hot-
weather dress for men are doomed to
failure. My work allows me to dress
comfortably in shirt and slacks, but the
last time I prepared to take Mrs,
Brolga to Randwick I found that I was
expected to don a heavy blue suit. My
protests were in vain—it was the suit or
stay at home. I sweated my way through
the crowds, did the bank, lost about three
pounds in weight and mentally composed
letters to the blokes who write the saner-
dress 1 articles to ask them if their wives
allow them to appear in public in the
garb they favor. Mrs. 8., of course,
looked delightfully cool in a silk frock
and very little else.
* * * *
“L. de R.”: If the late Rev. Baring
Gould, author of that delightful book
Strange Survivals, could have attended
the reopening of the reconditioned Regent
Theatre in Melbourne, he would have
been able to add another quaint item to
his list of vestigial remnants. On each
side of the proscenium are large, richly-
decorated boxes, each with three gilt
chairs standing bolt-upright. Any per-
son who has ever tried to look at a
cinema screen from the end of the front
row of the stalls knows that those chairs
will never be occupied. They are at an
even more impossible angle. But they
will remain there for ever, or until the
cinema is replaced by some more primi-
tive form of entertainment, purely and
simply as decoration, like the six bits of
bone the tailor has carefully sewn on the
sleeves of the coat I am wearing because
centuries ago some cavalier discovered
that he could unsheath his blade more
quickly if he buttoned his cuffs back.
* * * »
“Seal Tee”: Sydney has discovered a
ghost tram with the rather interesting
number 1066. When it was first reported
on the Chatswood line, an interested citi-
zen tried to track it down. But North
Sydney depot, where it should go when
not on the run, denied all knowledge of
1066, and said that it should know. The
Transport Department claimed that 1066
was stabled at Rozelle, and Rozelle agreed.
But Rozelle declined to say where it could
be found. A reconnaissance along the
lines served by trams from Rozelle failed
to reveal a tram with the number 1066
The citizen is still hopeful of proving
something or other.
* * * *
“Dong”: Cigarette-queues are very
quiet places—the members making their
spasmodic six-inch charges in stony
silence while they angrily size up the ones
ahead of them and think with pity of
those behind. As conversation had not
even stirred at the Bank stew, things at
our gasper kiosk were really bad until a
large black car pulled up in the shadow
of a “No Parking” sign. The driver,
well-dressed businessman type, alighted
and, taking with him his tool kit, went
forward to the bonnet. This he opened
and, detaching a couple of wires, spread
spanners, screwdrivers and an oil-can
on the motor. He then left the vehicle
and vanished into a ragshop. A
few minutes passed before a member'of
the Parking Police came in sight,
quickening his pace and licking his chalk
as he saw the prey. However, the tools
spread under the bonnet caused him to
“ Scotch? He Wouldn't even give you as much as a glance!"
shrug his shoulders, and he passed
by. He was followed by others of his
kind, but the tyres were still unchalked
when the driver reappeared half an hour
later. He picked up his tools, closed the
bonnet and drove off. “Enterprise,”
observed the man behind me. Silence
came again.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Tackline S”: “Macnell” (B. 3}12/’47)
cracked a jackpot. Officers of a shipping
line trading between India and the Roof
of Hell requested wood sheathing over
the steel decks. Regular refusals from
the superintendent brought him an in-
vitation to breakfast. Boarding, he saw
his eggs being fried on the naked steel.
Wood-covering was immediately ap-
proved! Constant trading to the Persian
Gulf in summer deadens the thinking
apparatus; one tanker company has its
own name for the mental disorder —“the
Abadans,” from the name of the great
oil port on the supposed site of the
Garden of Eden. Yet in winter I’ve worn
an overcoat there and played football to
keep warm.
* * * *
“Flip”: New to the suburb, my friend
Boner invited the next-door neighbors
in for dinner. All went well till his wife
asked him to bring in her piece de resis-
tance —a gooseberry pie. In the kitchen
he found two of them side by side, chose
one, and brought it in. “Oh,” said his
wife, “that’s the one I made for Clarrie.”
She explained to the visitors that Clarrie
was her brother. “He’s away just now,
and I like to send him things. It won’t
matter ; he can have the other one.” She
thrust a knife into the pie ; there was a
grating noise. Profoundly disturbed, she
lifted up a flap of the pastry and fished
out a small file. Later her young son
confessed to putting it there. He had
“seen it in a picture.” Nothing Boner
can say will really convince the neighbors
that Clarrie is a commercial traveller.
V * * *
“Serge”; Not one of “Bo’s” Smoke-
oh articles: straight from Moscow.
Georgi Fedorovich Alexandrov has for
many years been holding down a cushy
job as head of the Communist party’s
Agitation and Propaganda Section, see-
ing that the Soviet’s “culture” kept its
pens and brushes strictly on the party
line. Georgi’s prestige became terrific,
but suddenly it vanished away—Georgi
himself was investigated. Found guilty
of anti-Soviet thoughts, he admitted that
his “conceptions if developed here would
unavoidably lead to objectivism.” An
objective thinker, my authorities tell me,
is a bloke in the habit of “grasping and
representing facts as they are; unbiased
by prejudice or temperament; practical.”
* * * *
“Lord Leonard”: Not all the uninten-
tional printed fun comes from the com-
positors’ room. I wonder how this one
got past the proof-reader: “For the short
run into Dublin we were given the rail-
way saloon specially built for Queen Vic-
toria, whose interior, as far as I can re-
collect, was entirely lined with white silk,
mirrors, and gilding.” Author? Lord
Frederick Hamilton in his The Days Be-
fore Yesterday.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: All this talk about the neces-
sity for production seems to be so much
noise to me whenever I pause in a Sydney
street and inspect the crowds which pass. ;
Doubtless a great many of the hurrying
persons are on some business or other
connected with their own and the nation’s 1
affairs, but there are hundreds —or rather
thousands —that stroll aimlessly along,
pausing to look into shop windows,
standing irresolutely at corners, leaning
against walls. Are they all pensioners or
people of means or nightshift workers or
workers on “compo” or unemployed?
Granting that a small proportion may be
enjoying that leisure which is the reward
of the successful “investor” in one of Mr.
McGirr’s—or Mr. Hanlon’s or Mr. Cos-
grove’s or Mr. McLarty’s—lotteries, there
are still many more unexplained. I once
undertook to follow two fairly young
men thus walking aimlessly together in
the city ; at the end of an hour they were
back to the same spot. Then they
appeared to start all over again.
i Maybe I’d better stop loafing round the
streets, too.
* ♦ * *
“MB”: Apropos of that assertion (B.
31/12/’47) that R.N. ships are named
with “nice judgment... .battleship Tiger,
cruiser Black Prince, destroyer Scourge,
submarine Voracious and so on,” I once
had a letter from a snotty under the
address, “H.M.S. Whitesand Bay.” What
sort of a ship would that be?
* * * *
“Plop”: For “polluting Prospect Reser-
voir,” shags and other unchivalrous wild-
fowl have aroused the ire of Sydney’s
Water Board. Common weapons such as
shanghai or rifle are of little use in driv-
ing the pests away, so the Board is un-
leashing something really dreadful—a far-
reaching whistle, too high in pitch to be
heard by human ears, but claimed to be
a most unpleasant hindrance to the shag]s
nerve-ends. But before they launch their
terrible war - machine I bid them take
heed of a sequel invention, just lauded
in a scientific journal:
Inaudible sound-waves are now used to
open garage doors and the front doors
of houses. Operated by a button on the
dashboard of the owner’s car, a device in
the motor emits a “silent whistle” that
strikes receivers in the doors of both house
and garage and mechanically opens them.
The shags mightn’t like the whistle, but
they’ll no doubt chortle at the curses of
modern-minded citizens of Prospect who,
having installed the door-openers, will
lead a very wind-blown life until the
Water Board declares a truce.
* * * *
“Emel”; Even brown-paper can be-
come much-travelled nowadays. Mark-
ings on the piece beside me show it started
out from Shenandoah-road, Buffalo
(U.S.A.), to a Miss Dorothy Wilson,
whose address has been cut away. Its next
endorsement shows it travelled from Aber-
deen, Scotland, to Birkenhead (Eng.).
And from there, as wrapper of some Eng-
lish magazine, it came to Quantong
(Vic.). It is still sound enough for the
trip back to Birkenhead around some
Australian papers.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”; Female smokers aren’t
popular with their own sex out Mulgaville
way since the Oddfellows’ picnic, though
the menfolk now look more tolerantly
on the practice. The outing >vas held
near the big waterhole at the six-mile.
The bough shed erected six months be-
fore as a ladies’ dressing room afforded
plenty of privacy until a flapper smoker
carelessly dropped a match. The dried
boughs went up like tinder, thereby
causing the issue of a stream of feminin-
ity in all stages of dress and undress. To
a woman they dashed to the river, where
they remained submerged till the return
of relief expeditions to the town with
replacement wardrobes.
* * * ♦
“Kelms”: I read that the occupation
chiefs in Western Germany are concerned
over the quantities of food withheld by
the farmers, and are devising means of
correcting the position. But Hitler and
his gang failed to secure for the State the
full “legal” returns from the ignorant
peasantry. In villages where Australian
p.-0.-w. were employed, no member of
the community would trust, or confide in,
another. Occasionally a black Van would
arrive and a villager would vanish is it
generally known that only a small pro-
portion of the inmates of concentration
camps were Jews? —and at odd periods a
rigid inspection of farms was made
by men who would betray their mothers.
But still “undeclared” poultry roosted
secretly in the cellars, and still a quantity
of .grain was withheld to feed surrep-
titiously-held pigs. Where Hitler failed no
Allied commander could hope to succeed.
THEIR WHACK.
“The Cricket Board of Control has decided that the
Australian players to tour Britain this year will re-
ceive £957 10s. apiece.” — “S. l if. Herald.”
Good luck to them! And may the rising figure
Placed on their prowess with the ball and bat
Infuse an extra touch of zip and vigor
Into their cuts and drives and strokes like
that,
And help them reap a harvest of rewards
On various pitches between Leeds and Lord’s!
There’s no incentive, beyond contradiction,
To spur a fellow on at any trade
To do his utmost like the firm conviction
His job is being adequately paid,
Whether it’s framing laws or laying bricks
Or snapping catches up behind the sticks.
When Senators and Reps and others such as
The least distinguished M.L.As. we know
Decide they’re worth quite half again as much
as
Contented them a few short years ago,
‘Surely the chaps with cricket laurels twined
About their brows should not be left behind.
Here’s luck, my lads! Across the seas they’ll
fete you.
Packed stands with plaudits to your skill
will buzz.
Glory and fame most probably await you
And boodle most unquestionably does.
It’s pleasant to reflect that, whether or no
You hold the Ashes, you will hold the dough.
Even a few missed catches needn’t trouble you;
And well you’ll know, however oft you be
Dismissed incontinently l.b.w.
At least it won’t affect your £.s.d.
It matters not how many runs you get,
In one respect before you start you’re set.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


JFuil
advt
Service
The Trustees Executors & Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company, has since
its mception in 1878 given the whole of its time to the provision of;
• Prompt, efficient and economical service as Executor, Trustee, Administrator or Agent.
• It cannot die or leave the country. Its services go on forever.
• It is specially constituted under Act of Parliament.
• It offers ample security f]or the performance of trusts.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS;
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton,
M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.; G. D. Young.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager; K. M. Hughes.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,559.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
R. T. Hilder (Chairman); John Cadwallader ;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P.; Sir Leslie
Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,' C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David
Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
The T. and G.
Ordinary Life Department,
„ , T „ Added to Assurance
kept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds.
, £ £ £ £
40 3,056,735 408,060 1,102,177 1,546,498 17,769,026
Written off premises, £12,530.. .. 17,756,496
To contingency fund, £52,500.. .. 17,703’996
’44 3,955,413 476,771 1,336,058 2,142,584 24,921,600
Written off premises, £19,080.. .. 24 902 520
To contingency fund, £50,000 .. .. 24,852,520
’45 4,317,267 522,790 1,531,656 2,262,821 27,115,341
Written off premises, £20,505.. .. 27,094,836
To investment reserve, £52,000 .. 27 042 836
’46 4,889,772 680,669 1,687,587 2,521,516 29,564,’352
Written off premises, £21,807 .. 29,542,545
To investment reserve, £25,000 .. 29 517 545
’47 5,500,353 785,646 1,752,683 2,962,024 32,479,569
Written off premises, £24,149 .. 32,455,420
Industrial Lifi£ Department.
Added to Assurance
kept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds
, £ £ £ £ £
40 3,255,367 914,594 1,679,556 661,217 15,850,856
Written off premises, £11,220.. .. 15,839,636
To contingency fund, £47,000.. . 15,792,636
’44 3,724,518 929,672 1,901,429 893,417 18,769,433
Written of premises, £15,264.. .. 18,754,169
To contingency fund, £40,000 .. .. 18,714 169
’45 3,845,155 971,915 1,949,460 923,780 19,637,949
Written off premises, £15,109.. .. 19,622,840
To investment reserve, £38,000 . . 19,584,840
’46 4,008,095 1,039,9111,980,867 987,317 20,572,157
Written off premises, £15,792 .. 20,556,366
To investment reserve, £25,000 . . 20,531,365
’47 4,200,881 1,109,800 1,960,818 1,124,263 21,655,628
Written off premises, £17,488 .. 21,638,140
There is no substitute for the protection
afforded the individual by a contract with
a sound and regular-bonus-paying life
office. Moreover, such a contract is a
steadying influence in the social and
economic structure. Public recognition
of these facts is to be found in the swell-
ing volume of new business now being
written by the big mutual and other
offices. Other factors which have helped
to bump up the figures are the deferred
demand for cover from ex-service per-
sonnel, a high level of employment and
earnings, continued rise in the cost of
living, and the popularity of group assur-
ance in the superannuation schemes of
commercial houses. And since the value
of money the world over appears to be
permanently depreciated compared with
pre-war days, there are sound reasons
for annual new life business becoming
permanently established at a higher-than-
pre-war level.
The T. and G., one of Australia’s five
big mutual-life offices, writes ordinary,
industrial and accident contracts through-
out the Commonwealth and neighboring
Dominion. It put a record amount of
new business on the books last term, and
continues to exhibit a solid financial
structure and satisfactory margins in those
matters upon which soundness and pro-
gress depend. The extraordinary growth
over the last decade is illustrated in the
following table;
1937. 1947.
Assurances in force* . . £80,351,044 £160,643,791
Annual income . . . . 5,424,878 9,918,187
Total assets . . . . 27,970,987 56,594,903
* Including bonus additions.
Since 1937 the co. has thus put on as
much weight as it did during the preced-
ing half-century. The amount of new
business written last term was £26,649,268
(up £4,522,446), of which £19,180,863 (up
£3,510,270) was ordinary and £7,469,105
(up £ 1,012,176) industrial. Group assurance
contributed largely to the increase. The
average amount of all policies was £425 (up
£35) ordinary and £B5 (up £l6) industrial.
Too much notice, therefore, need
not be taken of the continued growth
in the expense rate. After deducting
taxes and contributions to the staff fund,
the rate was 15.3 p.c. of premium income
in the ordinary and 29.8 p.c. in the indus-
trial department, compared with 14.9 p.c.
and 29.3 p.c. respectively for the previ-
ous year. On the usually accepted basis
that new business is 10 times more ex-
pensive than old, the year’s new ordinary
contracts were written at a cost of only
59 p.c. as against 58 p.c. for the previ-
ous term.
Total income increased by £834,719,
reaching £9,918,187, of which £7,887,594
(up £732,310) was premiums and
£2,030,613 (up £102,409) interest, etc.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., sending £23,604 to the staff fund
and writing £41,637 off the book value of
premises, £4,044,650 was added to the
life-assurance funds and £35,344 to the
accident fund, making them £54,093,560
and £249,743 respectively. These funds
have the support and assistance of
£1,320,772 (up £6817) of reserves, which
also belong to policyholders—there- are
no shareholders.
The increase in the surplus available
for distribution (excess of assurance funds
over liabilities under policies) was
£92,606:
Net surplus— 1940. 1943. 1946. 1947.
Ordinary .. £586,776 £450,982 £665,828 £744,470
Industrial . . 352,951 240,017 324,514 838,478
Total . . £939,727 £690,999 £990,342 £1,082,948
After earmarking £25,000 in the ordi-
nary and £20,000 in the industrial section
for actuarial contingencies, the balance
was distributed as bonuses among policy-
holders.. Bonus rates have been on an
even keel since 1945, when they were in-
creased from 30s. to 50s. per £lOOO
assured on ordinary contracts and by
approximately 25 p.c. in the industrial
section.
The discouraging feature is the drop
in interest rates, a matter over which the
management has no control, and which
has been responsible for the cut in bonus
rates since 1939. After deducting taxa-
tion (£216,813), the net effective return
on the life and accident funds and re-
serves combined (£55,664,075) was a shil-
ling lighter at £3 Bs. 9d. p.c. The figure
was £4 7s. Bd. in 1939. To help offset the
effects of this contraction of earning
power upon future bonus-paying capacity,
the co. lowered the basis of valuation
of its policy liabilities from 3 p.c. to
2\ p.c. in 1941 and to p.c. in 1946.
The year’s growth in total assets
amounted to £4,168,008:
Public 1946. p.c. 1947. p.c.
securities ..£39,235,462 74.8 £43,066,303 76.2
Loans . . . . 9,514,565 18.1 9,297,233 16.4
Freeholds . . 2,974,296 5.7 3,359,064 5.9
Cash, book debts,
etc 702,632 1.4 872,353 1.5
Public securities (up £3,830,851) now
represent 76.2 p.c. of the total as against
55.5 p.c. in 1939. The addition of
£384,768 to freeholds mainly reflects the
purchase of properties in Sydney and
Adelaide.
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
f Dividends N
Pref. Ord. Written
June, Profit, p.c. p.c. Total. Reserves.*
1939.. 503,532 15 15 390,000 96,577 661,694
1940.. 563,096 14 14 364,000 112,503 748,287
1941.. 451,640 14 14 364,000 86,318 749,610
Taxes short-provided, £87,500 .. 662,110
1942.. 459,611 9 9 252,952 121,910 746,859
1943.. 406,759 9 9 270,000 88,999 794,620
1944.. 389,920 9 9 270,000 72,346 842,194
1945.. 502,245 9 9 270,000 152,764 921,675
1946.. 522,191 11 11 330,000 115,669 998,197
1947.. 1,039,634 17i 17| 525,000 362,546 1,150,285
* Excludes depreciation-reserve.
The board doesn’t figure results quite
like that. It wrote last term’s excep-
tional profit at £627,093 (up £245,556),
which is reconciled with the figure in
the table in this way:
„ „ 1947.
Profit claimed £627,093
Add: Addition depreciation reserve .. 362,546
Unexplained addition gen. reserve 15,217
Reserve for ore depletion .. .. 50,000
T . £1,054,856
Less: Appropriation new plant, etc. .. 15,217
Added intangibles .. .. .. 5
Profit per table .. .. £1,039,634
The net addition to depreciation reserve
(now £3,641,522, approx. 70 p.c. book
value freeholds and plant) is included
with profit and then shown as written off.
The remaining £677,088 (up £270,566)
was 22.5 p.c. on the £3,000,000 of share
capital (half of it 8 p.c. cumulative par-
ticipating) as against 13.5, 11.6, 10.5,
10.5, 12.4, 14 and 17.3 p.c. back to *1940.
The div. was lifted from 11 p.c. to 11 \
p.c., making the average 11.2 p.c. over the
last seven years compared with an aver-
age of 14.3 p.c. for the preceding quin-
quennium and 1.8 p.c. for the five diffi-
cult slump years before that.
It was the exceptionally high prices re-
ceived for zinc and other metals exported,
and repeal of the war-time (co.) tax, that
put the spring in last year’s figures. Lon-
don (sterling) metal prices have advanced
in this way since mid-1946:
Loxdok Metal Prices,
Electrolytic
Date Zinc. Lead. Copper.
Altered. £ stg. £ stg. £ stg.
July, 1946 .. ..50 55 84
Nov., 1946 .. ..55 55 98
Jan., 1947 .. ..70 70 117
Mar., 1947 .. ..70 70 137
Apl., 1947 .. ..70 90 137
July, 1947 .. .. 70 90 132
Average price received by co. for zinc
exported last term (52 p.c. output) was
£A6B a ton. The other 48 p.c. was sold
in the local market at £A22 a ton —the
price fixed early in 1940, and now below
cost of production. Any increase in
Australian sales of the co.’s main pro-
duct —they were 75 p.c. of output for the
first four months of the current term —
adversely affects financial results.
The time is overdue for the Government
to adjust this anomaly, for which it is re-
sponsible. Another irregularity calling
for adjustment is that, whereas the whole
of Australia’s lead and zinc requirements
are met by the Barrier cos. and this one,
other producers of these two metals in
the form of concentrates are allowed to
export the whole of their output.
Shipping difficulties interfered with the
smooth flow of calcines last term, and
zinc production at Risdon (Tas.) fell
away by 10,144 tons, leaving it at 82 p.c.
present plant capacity, with consequent
shrinkage in recovery of other metals:
Cad-
Zinc, Silver, Lead, mium. Copper, Gold,
Tons * Oz.* Tons. Tons. Tons. Oz.*
1939.. 825 437,550 2,873 172 233 4,070
1942.. 685 339,025 2,517 160 214 1,834
1944.. 635 377,885 2,479 202 200 2,101
1945.. 400,960 2,060 254 164 2,003
1946.. 458 285,525 1,875 226 153 1,210
1947.. 314 248,679 1,575 197 142 1,086
* Excludes residues from cadmium plant.
The year’s production also included
31,497 tons (down 4122 tons) superphos-
phate, 16,774 tons (up 1103 tons) sul-
phuric acid, and small quantities of die-
casting alloy, zinc dust, zinc sulphate,
cobalt oxide, etc.
At the co.’s own mines at Rosebery
(Tas.) the mill treated more and richer
ore 122,680 tons (up 4337 tons), assay-
ing 20.4 p.c. zinc—for the following re-
sults :
Produc- , —Assay—
tion, Zinc, Lead, Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. p.c. p.c. p.c. Oz. Dwt.
Zinc
conc’tes 39,009 55.6 2.3 0.34 3.1 0.64
Lead
cone’tes 8,502 15.9 59.2 0.82 25.4 4.55
Copper
conc’tes 3,114 18.8 24.2 9.2 144.34 41 73
Residue 72,054 1.92 1.00 0.18 1.57 0.92
In addition 124,115 tons zinc concen-
trates, assaying 51.3 p.c. zinc, 1.1 p.c. lead
and 1.370 z. gold, were bought from the
Barrier cos. Ore blocked at Rosebery
remains unchanged at 1,500,000 tons of
average grade, though the drill has inter-
sected promising mineralised channels
below present mine workings.
Subject to permission to import some
items of equipment, and to additional
power being made available, the co. pro-
poses to go ahead with its 50,000-ton-a-
-year sulphate of ammonia project at
Risdon. The cost is tentatively put at
£2,500,000, and production is expected to
begin within the next five years. There
is a ready market for the stuff, locally
and overseas, and demand promises to
increase.
Co.’s own liquid resources are suffi-
cient to meet initial outlay on the new
project. Shareholders, therefore, aren’t
likely to be asked to assist for some time,
if at all:
1939. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital .. £2,600,000 £3,000,000 £3,000,000
Debentures . . 400,000
Sundry creditors. . 191,916 543,174 588,473
Deposits .. .. 203,432 531 478
Overdraft . . 62,393 194,477 5,666
Tax reserve .. 107,829 380,045 593,952
Mines ■ • • • 457,524 491,392 501,966
Plant, etc. .. 3,959,003 4,924,000 5,205,298
Book debts .. 194,916 567,229 509,041
Shares, etc. . . 500,468 554,711 567 031
stocks • • • • 613,744 1,099,858 994,792
Cash, investments,
etc 1,271,578 975,710 1,554,748
Preliminary costs 172,467 172,307 172,312
Last term £579,038 was added to cash,
etc., now equal to three-fifths of the esti-
mated cost of the new venture. The
growth of £281,298 in plant, etc., reflects
additions to the zinc plant at Risdon,
capacity of which is being stepped up to
95,000 tons p.a.
The ords. at 735. and the prefs. at 735.
3d each return approx. 4.8 p.c. on a 17j
p.c. div. basis.
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
t Dividends —^
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 9.p.e. 12A p.c. serves. serves.f
1940.. 80,989 36,000 10,066 34,923 197,633
1941.. 70,189' 36,000 10,066 24,123 221,756
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 211,756
1942.. 80,612 36,000 10,066 34,546 246,302
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 236,302
1943.. 64,987 36,000 10,066 18,921 255,223
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 250,223
1944.. 64,537 36,000 10,066 18,471 268,694
To staff fund, £5OOO ~ .. 263,694
From tax reserve, £ll,BOO .. .. 275,494
1945.. 35,510 36,000 10,066 -- 204,938
To staff fund, £2500 .., 262,438
1946.. 67,611 36,000 1 0,066 21,545 283,983
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 273,983
1947.. 75,143 36,000 10,066 29,077 303,060
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 293,060
t Excluding' depreciation reserve.
Extraction of this big Victorian spinning
and knitting business from the morass
in which £322,000-odd of capital (16s. of
ord. share) was jettisoned in the
mid-’twenties was an arduous and credit-
able performance. The job took over
a decade. By 1938 plant had been ex-
tended and thoroughly modernised, and
the heavy depreciation allowance from
which the work was financed was cut in
halves, enabling more profit to be shown.
So thorough was the reconstruction that,
following the outbreak of war, the co.
was able to double its production of
yarns, portion of which was exported to
India, and greatly increase its output of
knitted goods.
Since the end of hostilities, demand in
both home and export markets has run
ahead of the mills. Chief bottleneck has
been skilled labor, especially female,
which has restricted the outturn of yarks.
Other difficulties have been the persistent
rise in costs, owing to lifts in both wages
and the price of materials and reduction
of hours, and shortage of black coal from
N.S.W. which threw the mills at Coburg
into low-gear.
To help solve the labor problem four
branch factories —one each at Kyneton,
Woodend, Gisborne and Parkdale —have
been successfully set up, and, since close
of last accounts, the Federal Govern-
ment’s moulding factory at Highett has
been taken over on a long lease. Idle
worsted-spinning plant at Coburg is to
be transferred to the new factory, where
about 200 persons are to be employed.
Mechanical adjustments were recently
made to boilers, enabling them to burn
brown coal or oil, thus making opera-
tions largely independent of supplies of
black coal.
Turnover further improved last term,
and limited exports were “widely spread
over countries considered favorable to
building up permanent overseas markets.”
After allowing a liberal £31,997 (up
£1835) for depreciation and making a
“smaller provision for taxation,” the net
result was £7532 stronger at £75,143.
That covered the 9 p.c. pref. div. (£36,000)
and 48.6 p.c. on the £80,527 of written-
down ord capital, compared with 39.2,
nil, 35.4, 36, 55.4, 42.6 and 55.8 p.c. back
to 1940. The div. was kept at \l\ p.c.
for the ninth year in succession, £lO,OOO
was sent to the staff fund, and the remain-
ing £19,077 lifted free reserves to
£293,060. In addition £201,196 is speci-
fically earmarked for depreciation.
Finances are comfortable:
1939. 1945. 1946. 1947.
Paid capital.. £480,527 £480,527 £480,527 £480,527
Liabilities* . . 79,894 185,705 204,004 321,091
Deprec. reserve 139,593 169,831 201,196
Freeholds . . 81,596 144,091 148,346 158,908
Plant. . . . 114,124 254,225 297,445 335,640
Stocks . . 341,805 527,795 501,945 526,985
Book debts, etc. 113,462 142,152 180,609 274,341
* Includes tax reserve, divs. payable and contribution
* to staff fund.
When the books closed, more or less
liquids exceeded liabilities by £453,235,
which was £25,315 less than at the
previous balance. The slip was due to the
addition of £48,757 to fixed assets.
The market anticipates its benefits by
pricing the f.-p. 4s. ords. at 18s. 6d., at
which figure the return is 2.7 p.c. on a
p.c. div. basis. The pound prefs. at
375. 3d. yield 4.8 p.c. Net tangible cover
is 38s. prefs, and 18s. 7d. ords.


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.- — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney I .— Advt.
m
11?.
Established 1808 in Reign of
George HI,
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. Y. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
Ars You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
**(£
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-13 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W,
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr: L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 24L) 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
Public Notices.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Persons, etc.,
insuring with any insurance
company not registered in New
South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909*191,1,.
ALL persons, firms, companies and as-
sociations being owners, trustees, or agents
for any goods or property within the Syd-
ney Fire District, and every other Fire
District In the State of New South Wales
to which the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-
1944, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State; are
hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales returns showing the
amount of such premiums paid by them
in respect of the said property to such
insurance companies during the year 1947.
The time appointed for the receipt of
the returns is on or before the 31st
January, 1948; subject to a penalty not
exceeding £1 per day for every day of
default.
NOTE: Returns are required only of
the proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the Fire Risk
during the time such property was in any
Fire District under the said Act.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales,
A- L. STARK,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
required from Insurance Com-
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-191,1,.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board
of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales returns showing the total amount
of the premiums received by or due to
such companies in respect of risks against
fire during the year ending 81st Decem-
ber, 1947, within the Sydney Fire Dis-
trict and every other Fire District in the
State of New South Wales to which the
Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1944, applies;
less any part of such premiums actually
paid by way of reinsurance to any other
insurance companies contributing under
the said Act.
The time appointed for the receipt of
the returns is on or before the 31st Janu-
ary, 1948 ; subject to a penalty not ex-
ceeding five pounds for every day of de-
fault.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales,
, A., L. STARK,
Secretary.
213 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
To Help Solve Your Money Worries S"7))
r
A personal, confidential service
is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed.
Personal loans from flO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills, come in
and talk it over.
RURAL BANK
Head Offices Martin Place, Sydney.
2"“SAVE mm
luce* 61
"HtN YOU
FLY
I . :
m
USE
i/ghtweioh t
n
Finished in woven-striped, water-
proofed canvas, with leather-bound
edges, Airway Cases are available
in limited supply, but production
is increasing.
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Wholesale only
For Safety’s Sake
USE CliO I
an e ll
MOTOR OIL
Keep your car or truck engine SAFE 'through the
summer months. Shell Motor Oil safeguards your
engine by reducing sludge and carbon to a
minimum and a sludge-and-carbon-free
engine is a long-life, happy-working
engine. Its longer life and maximum
performance are handsome repay-
ment for using Shell
“Drag-free” Motor Oil.
For Safety’s Sake—Join the
SHELL SHARE-THE-ROAD LEAGUE
The League is designed to prevent accidents and lower the alarming road death rate.
Join now and let the world know, by the flag badge on your rear window, that you re a
courteous and considerate driver. To achieve the League’s objective of safe motoring, make sure
your vehicle is road-worthy and safe by having your local garage or service station check your brakes•
steering, tyres, lighting and windscreen wiper.
Westralian gold industry
wants a bonus of £2 or more an
ounce to offset increased cost of
production and keep alive mines
which look like succumbing
under present conditions. Nor-
bert Keenan, K.C., member
for Nedlands in the State
Parliament, and president
Dunphy of the State Arbitration
Court think that the bonus asked
for is necessary if goldmining
is to be stabilised. The Mines
Department is doing what it can
to help. Extensive geological in-
vestigations are being carried
out, assistance to prospectors in
the shape of monetary aid and
loan of compressor and drilling
units is being given, and the
search for new mines is also
being encouraged in other ways.
A publication giving details of
thousands of one-time produc-
ing auriferous areas which were
subsequently abandoned is about
to be issued by the department.
This should provide valuable
information to individual and
co. prospectors. With modern
methods and a bonus many
areas now idle might be work-
able again.
* * * *
From London: At Lake
View’s latest annual meeting
chairman Goldthorp Hay said
that there were still too many
indeterminate factors affecting
the co.’s operations. Co. has
benefited by abrogation of
the gold tax, but increased
wages and higher cost of stores
were headaches. The price at
which the co. sold its product
remained the same whether costs
rise or fall. The goldmining in-
dustry could not, like mines
producing other jnetals, pass on
increased costs to the consumer.
* * * *
Interest in Gold Mines of
Kalgoorlie, Ltd. (W.A.), has
been stimulated by recent de-
velopments at No. 3 level on the
Iron Duke lease, and by
diamond-drill disclosure of a
number of other objectives
worth testing in the Iron Duke,
Australia East and Blue Gap
leases. Preliminary to extensive
testing of the co.’s areas at the
southern end of the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile, geologists are
making a complete re-examina-
tion of the area. The co. is
London - controlled, Western
Mining Corp. is the Australian
manager, paid capital is £614,750
(stg.) in 10s. stock units, and a
12,000-ton-a-month mill handles
the feed. Operating results for
the last five years compare as
follows:
Ore Yield, ( Divs.
Treated. Gold, Per
Mch., Tons. Oz. Proflt.fShare. Amt.*
£ £
’43 128,794 30,141 44,922 Cd. 15,250
’44 78,819 19,022 18,270 6d. 15,250
’45 104,353 25,051 29,978 6d. 15,250
’46 116,606 27,808 32,580 10.2 d. 29,585
’47 150,053 86,079 42,491 6d. 16,905
f Before providing for depreciation,
£lB,OOO, 1947. * After deducting Br.
income tax, now 9s. in the £l.
The extra div. (4£d. a share) in
1946 came out of tax recoveries
(£43,500). Of last term’s profit,
£lB,OOO (down £11,500) was ear-
marked for depreciation and
£7OOO (down £3000) for special
development, leaving £586 more
than the 5 p.c. div. called for.
Despite lifts in the basic wage
aggregating 7s. lid. a week, costs
were a trifle lighter at 30.695.
(stg.) a ton, thanks to bigger
throughput. The recent gain
from removal of the Federal
Government’s special gold tax
(17s. 7|d. an ounce) will be
largely offset by the new gold-
mining award in W.A., reducing
standard hours to 40 for above-
and for below-ground
workers, and making certain
marginal adjustments. At end
March last ore reserves were put
at 547,978 tons (up 21,318 tons),
averaging s.2dwt.
* * * *
Prospects of London-con-
trolled Tindals Gold Mines,
Ltd. (W.A.), are not bright.
Last year’s accounts show a
net loss of £10,060. Chairman
Linton Thorp says the Cool-
gardie property of the co.’s
wholly-owned subsidiary re-
mains closed. Director Herman
Mandelstam has unsuccessfully
tried to get a further Govern-
ment loan. Ore. reserves are
officially estimated at 374,155
tons, averaging 4.ldwt.
* * * *
“O.B.”: New Milano (W.A.)
is making a 3d. call to help
finance diamond-drilling of the
co.’s holding at Mt. Monger.
Past history of the field makes
prospects of success doubtful.


Life Assurance
HICKS
AUSTRALIA'S mSSrEIITY
Wise investment
Assurance funds benefits
city and country
I
SHIRE
COUNCILS
WATER AND
SEWERAGE BOARDS
PRIMARY
PRODUCTION
HOUSING
SECONDARY
PRODUCTION
Premiums paid on Australian Life Assurance
policies guard the independence of policy
holders by rewarding thrift, and promote
the prosperity of Australia by financing pro-
gress. Policy holders have over £333,000,000
invested in the development of Australia
. . . and this money is spread throughout
the Commonwealth, from Shire Councils to
Harbour Boards, and from Government
Securities to advances to primary industry.
The funds of Life Assurance Offices are for the protection of policy
holders, and are used for the benefit of the community.
Life Assurance give*
l/F£ TO AUSTRALIA
ISSUED BY THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCES OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS Ofi $
OSUIXIVAA
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating-
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegravis and Cables
“.TACKSUL,” BRISBANE
WAKE UP YOUR
LIVER BILE—
Without Calomel—And You’D Jump
Out of Bed in the Morning FnU of
Vim.
The liver should give out two
pounds of liquid bile daily or your
food doesn’t digest. You suffer from
wind. You get constipated. Your
whole system is poisoned and you feel
Irritable, tired, and weary and the
world looks blue.
Laxatives are only makeshifts. You
must get at the cause. It takes those
good old Carter’s Little Liver Pills
to get those two pounds of bile
working and make you feel “up and
up.” Harmless, gentle, yet amazing
in keeping you fit.
Ask for CARTER’S Little Liver
(Pills by name. Stubbornly refuse
anything else. 3/- and 1/3.
PAPER-MONEY "PROSPERITY."
The Devil is beginning to feel
a little seedy, and the Devil is
trying, rather unhappily, to
metamorphose himself into a
saint in the eyes of the electorate.
We must be careful not to over-
expand credit, he piously in-
structs us; we must not spend a
dollar more than is absolutely
necessary; we must nationalise
the banks in order to have a
unified economic policy—how-
ever good or bad that policy may
be. But the Devil is still keep-
ing up his pwn political expendi-
ture and his costly socialistic ex-
pansiveness ; his preachings are
at all times for the ears of the
“other fellow.”
The “paper-money prosperity”
of which “Labor” politicians,
especially Calwell, have been so
proud and loud-mouthed about
in the past is now. giving the
longer-toothed Ministers, Chifley
in particular, a touch of the hor-
rors. The Commonwealth
Bank’s circular to the trading
banks, asking them to shorten
sail generally so far as credit-
expansion is concerned, is one
admission of the alarm ; another
is the anxiety about the price-
control position, in respect of
which a referendum is to be held
in 1948.
The war, without doubt, had
a great deal to do with the over-
expansion of credit that is now
an embarrassment. There had
to be a certain amount of in-
flation a great war always
leaves its mark on a belligerent’s
economy. But in the early days
of its war-time control of the
Treasury “Labor’s” attitude to-
wards credit-expansion was such
that it prompted articles headed
“Drunk on Bank Credit” and
“Curtin Goes Credit-happy,” as
well as many other comments of
the kind, in these pages. “Labor”
was a cock-a-hoop about the
“magic” of its financial touch,
and no one could talk sense to
it or bring it to reason. The ex-
perts among the civil service and
war-time munition chiefs must
have found it difficult indeed to
carry on with the war-time
Ministry itself so hopeless—yet
cocky—when it came to matters
of administration.
In 1943 the “Labor” Prime
Minister (John Curtin at that
time) became almost lyrical
about the “virtues” of bank
credit, the only fault he could
find with which was the need for
price-control. Mr. Chifley did
not rise up and rebuke him. It
was left to long-suffering knight
Claude Reading (now dead, too)
to try to bring a balanced pic-
ture of the financial position be-
fore the people. In making the
following remarks, however, he
dissociated himself from his con-
freres on the Commonwealth
Bank board, among whom were
Dr. Coombs and W. C, Taylor:
A large volume of credit has been
found necessary for war purposes
and has been issued. Further large
issues for war purposes may be neces-
sary in the future.
For this reason, in my opinion,
there must be a strict limit placed
upon the use of bank credit in the
post-war period for any purpose. Its
improper use in peace-time, in spite
of controls, can destroy the purchas-
ing-power of our currency and wreck
our standard of living and our eco-
nomics generally.
“Work for all who can work” is
a laudable object to which all can
subscribe. Bank credit in certain cir-
cumstances can help to achieve it, but
if used without full justification can
defeat it and do incalculable harm.
Instead of work for all* there could
easily be work for none.
Claude Reading issued that
warning more than four years
age. The reply of the “Labor”
P.M. was to point with assurance
to the inflating “national in-
come” —based upon payments
as much as upon receipts—and
introduce an argument about
pre-1939 “muddling,” the Gov-
ernment’s new “efficiency” and
the promise of future “Labor”
planning, adding a promise that
“in peace-time our whole aim
will be to increase the goods and
services available for the people’s
consumption.”
Next day he went further in
giving his party’s views: “I do
not regard it as an improper use
of bank credit to provide the
means of doubling or trebling
Australia’s population, nor do I
see any better way of increasing
the national income, national
wealth and security, which is the
best guarantee of ensuring the
solvency of the national struc-
ture.”
It was with such damnable
nonsense that the “Labor” party
"No sub-letting allowed in bed-sitting-rooms
—with Eddie Ward still working
his old class-hatred racket —fed
the people of Australia while the
majority of the people were try-
ing to win the war and “Labor”
was trying to win elections. There
was no word of concern from the
“Labor” ranks, certainly not
from Mr. Chifley, about the
danger of inflation until infla-
tion was, in fact, enveloping us.
Then there was a change of
tune; Commonwealth loans, it
was urged, should be supported
by the people in order to avoid
inflation. But inflation has pro-
ceeded nevertheless, until at
June 30 last the total “spending-
power” in the hands of the
people was £1541 million, com-
pared with £613 million before
the war.
This gross growth in paper-
money spending-power has not,
of course, been accompanied by
a similar increase of buying-
power. Inflation in money has
been followed by a deflation in
productivity: working hours
have been reduced in number,
incentive has gone or has been
outlawed, and strikes have been
prevalent. Yet in 1943 the
“Labor” leader said: “In peace-
time our whole aim will be to
increase the goods and services
available for the people’s con-
sumption” ! Whatever Mr. Chif-
ley’s aims today, or those of Mr.
Calwell—who, in a speech after
the last election, gave the
opinion that “Labor” would be
in office for the next 10 years
at least because of its economic
record —the actual results are
deficient and alarming. “Labor”
can only think of more “con-
trols” to try to stop the effects
of the economic mischief it has
had so much to do with creat-
ing ; it hasn’t a clue as to how
to increase production that
might be “available for the
people’s consumption” or for
export. In fact, the tenor of its
circular on bank-credit policy
suggests that it does not recom-
mend the extension of overdrafts
where production is intended
for export.
Pape r-money “prosperity”
continues in the midst of a pro-
duction depression. The situa-
tion is becoming one of pure
mockery. Even the mass of
“Labor” people are beginning to
realise that there is something
rotten in the Commonwealth of
Australia, and that “Labor”
cockiness is starting to wilt as
soon as it is confronted with
real economic problems. It has
no longer lend-lease aid to pro-
vide it with dollar goods ; and,
in spite of the high prices being
received overseas for most of
our exports, the economic posi-
tion has many disturbing fea-
tures, especially in an economy
where there is no taxation re-
serve short of complete con-
fiscation of incomes and where
hard work and thrift have been
discredited as a matter of policy
by Mr. Chifley’s party for years
past.
Mr. Chifley still sticks to a
Government programme of “full
employment” even where many
trade-unionists do not deserve a
guarantee of economic security ;
he is still adding to the number
of useless and obstructive Com-
monwealth civil servants, still
pumping an excess of money
into an economy that fails to
respond with an equivalent
volume of goods and services.
Working hours per week are be-
ing reduced while wages rise and
production costs mount and the
standard of living falls. In spite
of its record of past futility the
Government has introduced
legislation to nationalise the
banks, as it would have nation-
alised the airlines if left to its
own free choice in the matter.
As it is, it is running competing
aerial services at a great cost in
taxation to the citizen.
Midway through 1947 the
Australian cost-of-liying index
stood at 28 p.c. above the 1939
level. But this is an understate-
ment of the real rise in the cost
of living since World War II
began. Statisticians’ figures in-
dicate that there was a growth of
7 p.c. in real wages up to June
last, against an increase of 37£
p.c. in money wages. But with
production unsatisfactory as it
is wage-earners are simply chas-
ing themselves and getting no-
where. Because of the low level
of industrial output in compari-
son with the volume of wages
the paper-money “prosperity”
now befuddling the community
is socially misleading and econo-
mically dangerous. December
statistics will show a further rise
in living costs, and there is the
impact of the general 40-hour
week still to ; come.
Some people, probably with a
little predisposition to begin
with, have taken the strong
sharemarket now prevailing as
evidence of public approval of
the Federal Government’s plan
to nationalise banking. Clearly
such folk have not yet become
properly acquainted with this
paper - money Commonwealth.
What is happening really is that
investors are readily exchanging
their paper money for equities
in private enterprises owning
tangible assets not based on
paper money issued by the Gov-
ernment proposing to nationalise
the trading banks. Ordinary
shares represent at least a tem-
porary refuge from inflation,
and a possible means of eventual
escape from the starving effects
of low interest rates on savings
that have been slow to grow be-
cause of heavy taxation. Share
prices have gone no higher than
housing costs —few, indeed, have
gone as high. But would sup-
porters of bank nationalisation
argue that high-cost housing was
a healthy sign, or that the high
prices that are paid—in spite of
controls—for pre-war dwellings
are an indication of a really
prosperous economy? If they
want to know how Australians
do react to the banking propo-
sals they can accept the Aus-
tralian Gallup Poll figures (very
accurate on previous forecasts)
—these show 61 p.c. of the
people to be against, 28 p.c. for,
with 11 p.c. undecided. '
*•* * *
The London market for North
Broken Hill shares has been the
equivalent of 82s. Australian.
Investors should remember that
the lead market will remain par-
ticularly vulnerable to United
States economic conditions.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Queensland Insurance Building,
80-82 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY
The Largest
Australian Company
0
Transacting:
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Break-
down, Aviation, etc.
4S&
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Writs or Call for
4 Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7A, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. F. Pullen, Public Trustee,
THE KEY TO THE
ELECTRIFICATION OF INDUSTRY
y
lk
7T-
-5$
m
m
m
c
For unit drives, flexibility, power
economy, and safe working, ensure
that your plant is adequately wired.
Olumpif
WIRES • CABLES • FLEXIBLES
Products of Olympic Cables Limited.
Sold by all Electrical Wholesalers.
fwl
Assets Exceed
£2,500,000
The A.C.A.
for Security
THE A.C.A
A.C.A. POLICIES
ARE
GOOD POLICIES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.
A.C.A. Building. 66 King Street. Sydney
Call, Write or Ring. Telephone BX 2165
BRANCH OFFICES
IN ALL STATES
D. J. MOONEY
Managing Director
Broken Hill Proprietary, whiefi
the Chifley Ministry has ad-
mitted it has no constitutional
power to “nationalise,” goes
ahead with big plans for the
future, including the mainten-
ance, so long as politico-econo-
mic conditions permit, of sup-
plies of the world’s cheapest
steel for the growing Australian
market. Output of pigiron and
steel is climbing back to near
the level of the war-end years,
following two years of labor dis-
location, but there is still a good
way to go before 1941-42 record
output is regained. Develop-
ment of Yampi iron ore is now
under way, and one 12,500-
tonner has been launched at the
Whyalla shipyards to haul the
ore to Port Kembla and New-
castle. B.H.P. has also been
reconsidering its proposed tin-
plate venture, plans for which
were drafted in 1935. In 1939
the co. was asking for a duty
of £8 a ton on imported plate ;
if protection was guaranteed for
10 years the plant was to be
erected at Newcastle or Port
Kembla, while 15 years of pro-
tection. would have encouraged
the co. to put the factory at Why-
alla. Pre-war cost of the plant
was estimated at £2,500,000; It
would be at least double that
today. The whole Australian
market would be catered for by
the proposed enterprise. There
is a world shortage of tinplate
at present.
H= H: H* “V H=
The total collection of Federal
and State taxation during
1946-47, revealed at £54 12s. 2d.
a head of the. population, com-
pares with £l7 19s. 7d. a head
for 1938-39, and £l4 4s. Id. for
1934-35. The military war is
over, but the economic and
socialistic war is, plainly, on with
a vengeance. The 1945-46 levy
of £5l os. sd. a head was a re-
cord up till that time ; but last
year’s toll was £3 1 Is. 9d. a head
heavier and more than three
times the exaction of 1938-39.
There is no question about it:
the socialist cynics at Canberra
are making use of war-time
financial arrangements and war-
time “emergency” legislation to
further their own political ends.
Socialism through crippling tax-
ation and bank nationalisation
is threatening the community.
And, to begin with, the “Labor”
party creates its own excuse for
each ; “Labor”-created inflation
is used as an excuse for the need
for . heavy taxation, while
Chifley’s Golden Age that has
turned blue-black is proffered
as the emergency calling for
nationalisation of the banks.
* * h= h;
In 1938-39 total State taxa-
tion was £7 6s. 3d. a head, Com-
monwealth £lO 13s. 4d. In
1946-47 the States levied
£3 15s. Id. a head direct, whilst
the Commonwealth (out of its
£5O 17s. 4d.) handed back
to the States £5 4s. 6d. a head,
making total State collections,
apart from grants, £8 19s. 7d.,
or £1 13s. 4d. a head more than
in the last pre-war year, when
trade-union unemployment was
in the vicinity of 10 p.c., as
against practically nothing to-
day (except when Chifley’s
spoiled children decide to have
a strike). Even compared with
1945-46 the States’ grab is up
by £1 Is. 4d. a head. In 1947-48
a still-higher collection by the
States is likely, pressure having
been put on the Commonwealth
at the last meeting of the Loan
Council, yet State Budget de-
ficits are forecast in some
quarters already, especially
where “Labor” is in command.
Tasmania, Westralia, Queens-
land and N. S. Wales, in that
order, ■ have the heaviest per
capita tax collections, and each
of those States has a Govern-
ment or Government-approved
lottery. Victoria is plainly the
worst sufferer under uniform
taxation. Before the war it had
the lowest State tax-rate in the
Commonwealth. Its direct levies
are now the highest (apart from
Tasmania), its reimbursements
(per head) the lowest. Thrift has
no rewards under the Chifley
regimentation of things.
* * * *
One of the first results to be
made public of the Common-
wealth Bank’s directive on credit
restriction has been the consent
of Capital Issues Control to an
issue of 245,000 £1 ords. by Mc-
Phersons, Ltd., at a premium of
£1 each. Approval has been
given on the undertaking of the
company to limit its overdraft.
The new issue will be in the
ratio of one for four. The co.
changed over from a proprietary
to a public co. in 1945, offer-
ing 225,000 ords. at 40s. each to
outsiders. In 1946 there was an
issue of 245,000 new ords. at the
usual 100 p.c. premium. The
co. and its subsidiaries make
machinery, tools, pumps, nuts,
bolts, rivets, etc., and appear
to be going through an expan-
sive period. Divs. have been
8 p.c., tax-free.
He * * *
Baby in Maoriland’s growing
retail-store field, Macduffs, Ltd.,
Wellington, is now a lusty
youngster. It looked shaky after
it clapped on sail following its
purchase of Shillings, Ltd.,
Auckland, in 1937, and shares
traded at 60s. in November this
year had dealings back in 1939
at 2s. Now firmly on its feet,
and, proud of its spectacular rise,
it’s forging ahead with expansion
plans and purchase of manufac-
turing enterprises. The idea is
to get command of supply
sources for textiles and knitwear
for its chain of 19 stores. Ord.
shareholders will be offered
80,000 new shares during the
first quarter of 1948, in the ratio
of one for every three held, at a
premium of 10s. Formation of
Macduffs Holdings, Ltd., is the
latest development. The holding
co. aims at a capital of £200,000,
and will offer 80,000 5 p.c. prefs.
to shareholders in Macduffs,
Ltd., next May or June. Both
issues have Ministerial approval.
H= * =K *
It has been estimated that
Australian public companies
raised over £22 million of new
share and premium capital dur-
ing 1947. Manufacturing and
engineering concerns took over
42 p.c. of the capital raised.
Total issues were about three
times as great as in 1946, which
held the record up till then.
The great capital investment now
going on in private industry is
partly the result of post-war re-
habilitation of industry, partly
of expansion, partly of the in-
flated cost of re-equipment. In
the fiscal year 1946-47 it was
estimated by the Commonwealth
Statistician that “gross private
investment” representing
“machinery, plant and equip-
ment, motor vehicles (including
non-business vehicles), other
transport equipment, new build-
ing (including building by Gov-
ernment housing authorities)
and building maintenance and
change in value of stocks and
livestock” amounted to £270 mil-
lion, compared with £145 mil-
lion in 1938-39. In 1943-44 the
figure was only £45 million.
* * * *
Post-war gold-share activity
has already begun, stimulated no
doubt by elimination of the gold
tax. Applications for 2,400,000
shares were made when 320,000
of 10s. each were offered by
New Coolgardie Gold Mines,
N.L., a Western Mining Corp.
flotation. W.M.C. took 310,000
fully-paids as vendor, and sub-
scribed in cash for 170,000
shares. The public issue of
320,000 shares made the total
800,000, which, when fully paid,
will take paid capital to
£400,000. Leases to be taken
over are the Hampton and Bur-
banks groups near Coolgardie
(W.A.). Proved and probable
ore reserves of 76,000 tons are
spoken of in the Hampton leases,
assaying 13.8 dwt. G. Lindesay
Clarke and F. F. Espie have re-
ported on the properties.
Industry in New Zealand to-
day is fettered by controls, says
A. M. Seaman, chairman of
Reid N.Z. Rubber Mills, Ltd.,
who sees no prospect of early
escape from “fruitless expense
and constant irritations.” Maori-
land cos. have to carry far
larger stocks than normally to
keep wheels turning in factories,
and a lot of extra money is tied
up. To make sure of supplies
from abroad they have to remit
advance payments in greater
sums than in the past, but are
often kept waiting longer. Get-
ting over the hurdles of import
restrictions and prohibitions, in-
difference of overseas suppliers
and high-handedness in finance
breeds toughness in business,
which is putting all M.L.
managements on their mettle.


m 'i
f
*
CCD
o
p
/
in
the
J &
nn*
THERE is a better place for your money.
In a Commonwealth pavings Bank
Account it will be safe not only from
loss by theft or accident but also from
the temptation to spend carelessly.
Whilst your savings are being guarded
they also earn interest.
i
Every little helps towards the day when
you wish to buy something really worth-
while. Then your thrift will be repaid and
you’ll be glad you put your money in the
COMMONWEALTH
bank
Every banking facility is available at ail Branches.
GSB2I-82
TH AT
At
S>
a*
The
HAVE YOD
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against
difficulties and loss which might arise should your Executor
die or become incapacitated. By means of such a codicil
you can name Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint Executor
with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and
sound administration and are relieved of a serious anxiety.
The Company will willingly forward full particulars.
DIRECTORS:
James Bums, Joseph Mitchell, P, T. W. Black, Frederick
Ewen Loxton, Eric Priestley Lee.
Manager: L. S. Parker. Secretary: E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR e TRUSTEE • AGENT
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
’PHONE; BU 5901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
The British Labour Minister, in intro-
ducing the “1946 Assurance Companies
Act,” stated that “The 1946 Act”:—
“Acknowledges the inherently in-
ternational and comprehensive char-
acter of insurance.”
The Labour President of the Board of
Trade in the House of Commons also
stated that it would be proper to inform
the House of the attitude of the Labour
Government toward the future of British
Insurance business. The Government, he
stated, had no intention of interfering
with the transaction of Insurance business
by private enterprise. It is, he stated,
the desire of the Government that Insur-
ance should be, in the future, as in the
past, dealt with on an international basis
and as business of an international
character.
FOB YEARS
the MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
an Australian Institution, has been
providing security for the homes of
the people,
EIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
Head Office: 117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Branches in all States.
SUPERFINE
LIQUEURS
Eau de Vie
Advocaat
Cherry Brandy
Creme de Menthe
Orange Curacao
White Curacao
These masterpieces are
worth the little extra
HIGH GLASS
TOBACCOS
FAMOUS 3 AAA HONEYDEW
PIPE MIXTURE, 20/- per lb.
Posted.
A Delightfully Cool Smoke. Blended
with American, African and Aus-
tralian Picked Tobaccos.
FAMOUS “WINSTON’S”
FINE CUT BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTES, 24/- per lb.
Posted.
Most Popular Smoke in Australia.
Beautifully Blended and Matured,
Quickest Mail Order in Australia.
Cash with Order or C.O.D.
HILLMAN TOBACCO
TRADING COMPANY
Commercial Road,
BRISBANE, QUEENSLAND.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Under the Counter."
There was an acidulated-look-
ing fellow in the front row of
the Royal last Saturday night
who looked like a censor with
indigestion and sat like a broom-
stick with rheumatism. A New
Year’s greeting or a 100-to-l
winner might have cheered him
to a point of utter dejection.
Ten minutes after the curtain
had gone up, however, he was
smiling, five minutes later he
was laughing, and thereafter he
spent the entire evening thump-
ing his knee, holding his mid-
riff and gasping for breath be-
tween frequent and sustained
bouts of almost Homeric
laughter.
It was understandable, and
most of the audience was laugh-
ing with him at one of the best
comedy-musical confections, and
one of the best comediennes,
seen in these parts for many a
moon. There is about Cicely
Courtneidge a tremendous de-
termination ; she seems to be,
almost, an irresistible and irre-
pressible force, and her impact
on the Royal audience evoked
gusts of spontaneous laughter
seldom heard since Mr. Chifley
took over the taxation business.
Over the air or from a record
Miss Courtneidge is slightly
overwhelming, but on the stage,
with plenty of room to show her
paces, she is so good that, in
these days when everything from
beer to overseas actors and
theatrical companies are
rationed, she might almost be
suspected of coming from under
the counter herself.
The show itself, a light musi-
comedy froth about an actress
who spends most of her spare
time “wangling” with everyone
from shopkeepers to Cabinet
Ministers for everything from
meat and shoes to the transfers
of diplomatic officials, was writ-
ten for Miss Courtneidge, and
fits her and her particular
clowning talents like an old
boot. The moment she leaves
the stage, which is rarely, it
sags; and the second she re-
appears it snaps and speeds along
as brightly and as divertingly as
a trainload of commercial
travellers.
Strung out behind Miss
Courtneidge in her assault on
Sydney’s risible faculties are
Thorley Walters (one of the
originals from London), Claude
Horton, Valery Shaievsky and
half a dozen or more local
players, including Aileen Brit-
ton, Letty Craydon, Lloyd
Lamble, Eric Reiman, Edward
Howell and William Rees, all
of them doing very nicely ip a
conspiracy that would raise a
laugh even from any unfortu-
nate recently struck by the Taxa-
tion Commissioner.
"The Sailor's Return."
Miscegenation and its recep-
tion in an eighteenth-century
English village are the theme of
“The Sailor’s Return,” the new
ballet based on the novel by
David Garnett to Arthur Old-
ham’s music and put on by the
Ramberts at Melbourne Prin-
cess. William Targett, the
sailor, weds Princess Tulip ac-
cording to the rites prevailing
in the kingdom of Dahomey
and takes her and their baby to
his hometown, where they get a
mixed reception.
William’s brother Harry takes
rather a fancy to the lady, but
his sister, a respectable married
woman, is outraged and sets the
villagers against him. William,
having acquired a handsome
dowry from his marriage, buys
a pub and instals Tulip be-
hind the counter. Her charm
and sweetness, not to mention
the Dahomeyan dances with
which she regales the habitues
between drinks, makes the inn
the centre of attraction for the
male population, and the Rev.
Adrian Cronk is stirred to action
in the interests of right be-
havior. He tries to convert her,
a brawl ensues, and in her
terror the black girl crowns a
brutal carter with a beer mug.
William tries to appease the
enraged villagers with a Chris-
tian marriage and the christen-
ing of the baby, but on their re-
turn from the church they meet
the carter, a free fight starts and
Tulip becomes a widow in a hos-
tile world. Fearing that Mr.
Cronk and his fellow-conspira-
tor, William’s sister, will harm
Sambo, she sends the baby back
to the more friendly depths of
Africa in the care of a sea cap-
tain and, to earn her own pas-
sage, stays behind as a domestic
servant.
This realistic theme played
right into the hands of the
Ballet Rambert. That clever
little mime Sally Gilmour, who
can make gracefulness look
graceful and awkwardness look
awkward, brought to life the
gaiety and terror of the unso-
phisticated black girl. She uses
dancing as it should be used,
like a language. Walter Gore
was effective as the sailor.
Harry Cordwell was a mon-
strous king, but his savage court
was a trifle crowded.
Madame Rambert has plenty
of cards up her sleeve, and
another was “Capriol Suite,” to
Peter Warlock’s music. It was
good except when the company
took to acrobatics. The tumb-
ling of Walter Gore, Frank Staff,
John Gilpin and Harry Cord-
well would have got the bird at
any Tiv. show.
Melbourne was provided with
two servings of the “Messiah”
at the Town Hall, the second—
by the Royal Philharmonics and
the Melbourne Symphony Orch-
estra under the Heinze baton —•
being the more heavily attended.
Handel’s inexhaustible inventive-
ness didn’t find the choristers
lacking. Under Dan Hardy’s
brilliant tuition they came out
in terrific volume and perfect
timing, and if darkness could be
painted in sound they certainly
did it in the Passion sections.
Soprano Patricia Howard made
a good fist of her solos, and it
would be difficult to think of
anything more thrilling than her
singing of “Rejoice Greatly.”
On the same high plane was
contralto Trudy Gaunt, but
tenor Lewis Dawe seemed to be
having trouble with his breath-
ing, while Victor Harding’s bass
had all the notes right but failed
in the expression. Professor
Heinze drove his 400-in-hand
through the enormous opus with
greater confidence than ever.
The trumpet solo was, as usual,
one of the loveliest experiences
of the evening.
* * * *
At Christmas-time a sort of
nostalgia seems to drive people
back to the legit, theatre. All
Melbourne’s flesh - and - blood
shows were crowded during
Yuletide, and many children who
had never been inside a live
show saw one for the first time.
It’s a pity, therefore, that cur-
rent stage entertainment is on
possibly its lowest level. Apart
from amateur theatres, there
were only the traditional
pantos like "Babes in the Wood,”
the Tiv, offering and Wirths,
which weighed in with “Cinder-
ella,” plus elephants and horses.
The best introduction to the
theatre for the young folk was
the Ballet Rambert at the Prin-
cess. “Mr. Punch” and “Peter
and the Wolf” were not only
first-class juvenile entertainment,
but had enough skill and artis-
try in them to satisfy anyone,
* * * *
Melbourne Tiv, is at present
graced by the presence of Mr.
George Formby, four-pointed
star of stage, radio, records and
motion pictures. His chief assets
are a waddle, sly eyes, a smile
as wide as the mouth of the
River Murray, a Lancashire
accent and a variety of ukeleles.
He can’t but does sing and he
merely strums the ukeleles, but
he has an astounding capacity
for spangling the air with innu-
endo. The secret of his suc-
cess, instanced by the continu-
ous ripples of mirth that accom-
pany his crooning discourses,
lies in his capacity to arouse a
community of feeling. It is an
ancient art and it has been prac-
tised by a million vaudevilleans
before him, but he does it a
bit better than most, and as if he
liked it. Formby occupies the
last half-hour of the pro-
gramme ; the rest of it is taken
up by the six De Pauls, Frenchy
Manning, the Crazy Clowning
Cowboy on the Tightwire, Clay
and Sullivan, the Queens of
Baloney and the amazing My-
rons —all good.
* * * *
Playgoers are to have a double
dose of grand opera this year,
not for the first time. The
Taits and the Fullers fought on
the box-office front on one oc-
casion and both lost money. On,
February 20 the Melbourne
Princess will open with an Aus-
tralian company in “Aida,” fol-
lowed by “Faust,” “Rigoletto”
and “The Marriage of Figaro,”
Bernard Heinze will be musical
director, Joseph Post, of the
A.8.C., principal conductor and
Dr. Schildberger chorus’ direc-
tor, and it is confidently believed
that the country will be able to
put up tenors, basses and prima
donnas equal to any imported.
In May an Italian company
arrives to the order of J.C.W.,
and Nevin Tait is already in
Italy looking the ensemble over.
Contrary to popular opinion,
grand opera has never been ,a
financial success in this country.
Seats have to be priced far
lower than in London or New
York, and in one of their most
artistically successful seasons,
with Melba only one of the
attractions, the Taits admitted
to a loss of £40,000, while the
Fullers dropped £20,000 on
their Wagnerian venture.
At the Films.
You have to be careful how
you reach for your matches after
viewing “The Assassin” at Syd-
ney’s Empire—any quick move-
ment towards the hip-pocket is
likely to arouse a posse of
youthful vigilantes among the
audience. Taken from a yarn by
Zane Grey, the film is a wes-
tern filled with leather-faced
gun-fighters, flying bullets, low-
down coyotes! and ranch-owners
with beautiful daughters—and
there’s not a single guitar in the
whole film. Instead of the biped
jelly-fish who yodels his way
through contemporary westerns,
the hero is a tall stranger who’s
scowl suggests that he’s sat on
a cactus and who nominates his
shots like Lindrum. Randolph
Scott is the tough bloke, and the
holidaying kids, are lapping him
•up.
* * * *
In “The Time, the Place and
the Girl” at the Mayfair, S. Z.
Sakall is the father of all
famous conductors. At his best
when kept in hot water, the
dumpy chap with a Viennese ac-
cent, monocle and 14 chins is
simmered throughout by his
battle-axe wife and even grim-
mer manager. He is roasted
when these two wet blankets re-
turn unexpectedly from a trip
and find the maestro surrounded
by empty champagne bottles and
lipstick. There’s a simple ex-
planation to it all, but the old
lad is broiled, hot oven. Better
than most technicolor musicals,
the film brings out some unex-
pected ability from Jack Carson
who, although he does some
horrible things with a trumpet,
makes some compensation with
a stretch of excellent clowning.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The New Year’s Day morning party
given by Richard Boyce, U.S.A. Consul-
General, and Mrs. Boyce at the South
Yarra Consular residence was also in the
nature of a farewell party, for the popular
couple return soon to Washington. Mrs.
Boyce received her guests wearing a navy
suit and dusty-pink blouse matched by
the narrow braiding down each side of
the short jacket. Mrs. Ralph Hunt, wife
of the U.S. Consul, was in a hydrangea-
blue crepe frock and short matching
jacket. Chancellor of the University
Charles Lowe and his wife received many
congratulations on his just-conferred
knighthood. Lady Stradbroke came from
Government House with Mrs. J. O. Hasel-
den. Penelope Nettlefold was with Mr.
and Mrs. C. McKay, with whom she is
staying for the holidays. U.S.A. Naval
Attache Commander S. Jurika was with
Mrs. Jurika, whose large white hat was
worn with a white crepe de Chine frock
patterned with green ’kerchiefs and
mauve belts. With the U.S.A. Military and
Air Attache, Colonel Ralph Michaelis,
was his wife, whose striking silk frock
was patterned with cyclamen-and-green
on white.
Mrs. Herbert Leggett, wife of the Vice-
Consul, wore a grey suit finished with
cyclamen embroideries on the lapel; her
black felt hat was large-brimmed and
worn off-the-face. Mrs. M. G. Black-
mun’s jacket suit was banana-yellow.
Mrs. Bertie Hotchkiss wore a silk frock
patterned in brilliant autumn-tinted
flowers. Commander George Gill brought
his wife, artist Esther Patterson, who was
in mist-blue frock and large natural straw
hat. Mrs. J. E. Brophy chose white-
spotted grey ensemble and large white
hat. Mrs. C. Day’s natural linen suit was
highlighted with a large natural straw
hat trimmed with black veiling. With
Archbishop Booth was Mrs. Booth ; they
leave in February for England, where the
Archbishop will attend the Lambeth Con-
ference.
There was no reluctance to bid farewell
to a year notable for its frustrations, re-
strictions and general cussedness, and
New Year’s Eve parties welcomed the
new arrival gaily, even if hope was tinged
with caution. Three hundred dancers
went to the Storklub. Among them were
Nan Dethridge, in floral taffeta gown and
white-fox cape, Dell Curtain, whose silver
lame gown had the off-the-shoulder line,
Maida Voigt, in filmy black lace, Mrs.
Eric Avery, in soft pastel-toned taffeta.
In the Rupert Cooks’ party were Mr. and
Mrs. Ted Marshall, she in a black taffeta
gown topped with a pink lace tunic. Mrs.
Tom Kennedy’s soft white satin gown
was printed with tulips in green and
mauve, the bodice being of green velvet.
Mrs. Leo Cook’s gown was of silver
lame, a mauve undertone adding a deeper
note to the silver. Mrs. John Langley’s
ensemble was all-white.
At Claridge’s Shirley Hosie danced in
a long frock of pink lace which had an
off-the-shoulder bodice and a bustle on
the skirt. Mrs. Tyrwhitt Drake's gown
of black moire silk had multi-colored
stripes. Joy Hopkins chose a frock of
brilliant red lace ; Shirley Koster’s muted
cinnamon-brown crepe gown bore a
cluster of frangipani for a corsage. A
hip-length matching jacket covered Mrs.
Jim Collins’s royal-blue crepe gown.
Mrs. Eric Branchflower’s black crepe
gown was sequin-trimmed; Mrs. Walter
Darbyshire’s crepe gown was turquoise
blue. Gold sequins trimmed the oyster-grey
crepe gown worn by Mrs. Boris Kosky.
Mrs. Fred Fenton wore a pale-blue crepe
gown with a sequined yoke and pinned
silver birds in her titian hair. Mrs.
Lindsay Meares, of Bethungra, N.S.W.,
was a study in powder-blue. Mrs. Bruce
Shepherds wore a black-and-white-
patterned frock with a shiny black lace
straw hat. Mrs. Desmond Shaw’s black
frock had the low neckline.
Racegoers sallied forth for their New
Year’s Day joust with the Flemington
books in cool silks and linen suits, for
the morning was hot and sultry. Towards
the end of the meeting they were blue
with cold as well as with their jousting.
The high wind played havoc with large
hats, and only the few who sported the
cloche hat or the curvette had both hands
free. Several of the “harem” type skirt
were seen. One graceful skirt in this
style was of soft grey-blue crepe with the
bodice featuring a fairly deep neckline
and short sleeves. With it went a hat of
lavender crinoline straw with ribbon in
a deeper tone swathed round the cut-out
crown. Another in a pale-pink and black
printed silk was worn with a half-hat of
black taffeta flowers. Wife of the V.R.C.
chairman, Mrs. Richard Turnbull, wore
a suit, finely checked in. blue and white ;
her small upturned hat of white felt was
trimmed with navy and veiling in the
same color. Mrs. A. G. Hunter’s black
ensemble was worn with a large burnt-
straw hat finished with a black ribbon
and veiling and a single pink rose at one
side of the large brim. Mrs. Ross Grey
Smith wore a natural straw hat banded in
tan ribbon to match her (rock, which
was also patterned in lime-green and
white. Mrs. Les Coleman’s pastel-blue
crepe ensemble was teamed with a small
blue hat trimmed with dark-brown coq
feathers and veiling. Grey and yellow
was the color alliance favored by Mrs. J.
E. Hewitt. Mrs. H. C. Hooper’s tailored
wool suit was grey, her green hat trimmed
with a gold-toned rose. Her daughter,
Mrs. Basil Glowrey, chose black, her
large natural straw hat being banded in
black velvet and finished with pink roses.
Reta Findlay’s lightweight wool suit at
Flemington was hydrangea-blue; her
royal-blue straw hat was trimmed with
pink roses and cyclamen veiling. Mrs.
Bowen Allen’s navy frock was patterned
in large flowers ; her platter hat of natural
straw, with its lining of red, was tied on
with navy veiling. Mrs. J. G. Purves was
in navy. A pale-grey linen suit was worn
by Mrs. M. Sloman with London-tan hat
and accessories. Eve Chauvel, in grass-
green linen suit and white felt bowler
hat finished with a cluster of white
daisies, was with Madeline Barrett, who
recently returned from Malaya. A white
chip straw hat with a top-knot of white
flowers set off Mrs. James Buchanan’s
pastel-blue suit. Mrs. Cedric Ffrench
chose a navy-and-white-spotted suit and
a small white hat with flowers at one
side. Mrs. Ned Holland’s white frock
had alternating black bands and featured
the new hemline.
The merry eyes you look at belong
to nurse Judith M. Slaney, who is
second-year candidate at the Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital in the current Queen of
Nurses’ Carnival in aid of a war nurses’
memorial, for which all Victorian hos-
pitals are co-operating. Judith, who
comes from Albury (N.S.W.), was a
draughtswoman with signals in the
A.W.A.S. for three years. Photo, by
Andre-Evinson.
It was Sally Gilmour’s night at the
Princess when the Ballet Rambert pre-
sented the Australian premiere of “The
Sailor’s Return,” in which Sally dances
the role of the negro princess. Dancing
almost throughout in bare feet, Sally has
six changes of costume for this ballet,
which concerns a sailor who returns home
to his English village with his negro wife,
and of the reception the villagers give
them. Among balletomanes at the
premiere were Margaret Henderson, in a
black taffetta ballerina frock, hem of the
skirt having a narrow frilling of white
lace, and Vera Howe, an unusual coat of
Chinese Panda over her frock of mignon-
ette-green trimmed with copper-toned
sequins. Madame Rambert’s red-and-
white-spotted blouse was worn with a
formal white crepe skirt. With Mr. and
Mrs. E. H. Storen were their daughters
Helen, who wore a full-length moss-green
crepe frock and beige-fox cape, and
Barbara, whose formal floral evening
gown was worn under a three-quarter-
length white fur coat.
From Sydney
J. C. Williamson’s New Year’s present
to Sydney was a brand-new show. This
show hadn’t come by way of Melbourne,
or Perth, or Marble Bar. It was a slap-
bang Australian first night. And the
audience at the Royal last Saturday re-
sponded with the greatest display of bare
shoulders and dinner-suits seen there for
aeons. Not only was the place packed,
but there was a balloon-like feeling of
blitheness floating about. There was the
certainty that “she always rides to win
thrilling the house. For this was a Cicely
Courtneidge night.
Clothes on and off the stage were an-
other excitement. There was ermine in
the air—nicest catch of this around the
shoulders of Mrs. C. L. Jones and Mar-
garet Gillespie. Margaret’s was worn
with flowered chiffons, and Mrs. Jones s
above sweeping black silks twinkling with
opalescent sequins. Two first-nighters
who had a sort of royal progress jvere
the Bertie Kellys. Both are just recovered
from long and trying illnesses, and both
were there in their usual seats giving
welcome to the English actress. Every
actor and actress in Sydney was there
Strella Wilson, sleekly dressed and very
handsome, Dorothy Dunckley, Therese
Desmond (husband is Mr. Burroughs, the
obliging builder of the piece), the Charles
Normans', Phillip Lewis,
One of the best-looking family groups
decorating the Circle was Mrs. A. E-
Grace, her daughter Mrs. King, and
grand-daughter Judy King. Judy was en-
joying her first “first” night. With them
was pretty Mrs. Farley. An absentee was
permanent first-nighter Mrs. Eva Wunder-
lich, kept at home by illness. Actress
Bettina Welch made effective entry in
black satin. Knight Harry Moxham and
his wife were there ; so were the H. J.
Bradys, who never missed a point in the
dialogue. It would take more newsprint
than the ration allows to tell about Cicely
herself, from the time she appears in her
red-and-white-printed silks to her moment
of departure in a smoothly-tailored white
suit, her lover tucked under her arm, in-
stead of like all her other transactions,
“Under the Counter.”
This is Florence Piesse, lately ap-
pointed Junior Red Cross’s National
Youth Leader. Just now Miss Piesse is
directing the society’s summer camp at
Bathurst. There are about 90 junior
Red Crossers in the camp, and they will
not spend all their hours in idleness. Be-
tween fun and games they are busied with
handcraft classes. Norton Trevaire photo,
of Miss'Piesse.
The matter of transport on New Year’s
Eve, 1947, took the bang out of midnight
revelry. Unless the would-be roysterer
had his own car he just had to be a
good boy and make for home round
about the midnight hour. The last ferry
from Manly left at a few minutes past
twelve, which must jiave meant a bit of
a sprint from the Corso celebrations.
Other ferry services were as usual, which
means 10 minutes to 12 from the city on
the Neutral Bay run. Even the trams went
home to bed early, and many King’s
Cross revellers, having missed out on tram
and taxi, were seen hoofing it into town.
And, incidentally, can the Cross be losing
its allure? New Year’s Eve prophecy was
that about 100,000 would go all carnival,
but police estimates put the crowds who
cheered and sang and danced in the
streets bedizened with fancy costume,
with masks and colored-paper caps down
as 40,000.
All shows, cinemas, and night-clubs
were crowded out. There were 500
dancers at Prince’s, and a few hundred
squeezed into Romano’s. Mrs. Lennox
Bode and Mrs. Keith Martin organised
the latter frivols, and the guests (this
was the sort of private party where each
one pays his own footing) all seemed to
be matey with one another. They had
the pipers, too, to skirl in the New
Year. In every suburb there were gay
private parties, and "here the Scots element
dominated not only the music but the
family pets, cat and dog finding them-
selves sporting bows of Tartan -ribbon.
The ferries, too, had a word to say in
greeting to the New Year. All around
Port Jackson the sirens honored 1948 with
long and loud salvos. And now, Here’s
Luck!
In the first week of 1948 it is well to
remember the men who made a happy
New Year possible for you and me. The
Totally and Permanently Disabled
Soldiers’ Association of N.S.W. is making
appeal for £25,000. The greatest need is
a suitable club where the men can meet
daily—for some of the 1000 members
even such mild enjoyments unfortunately
cannot be indulged in, but for the boys
who can still make it the club, with its
games of billiards and chess and cards,
is a very vital part of the years. The
Association has lately secured Vauxhall
House, Bathurst-street, as future club
premises, and when the arrangements are
finalised (such alterations as new stair-
ways and lifts, and fire-proofing), the
building will soon be completed. But this
all needs money. And don’t forget donay
tions are deductable on income tax.
While we are talking of the Totally and
Permanently Disabled Soldiers, let us not
forget that devoted group of women who
call themselves the Philanthropists. It is
they who see to the lunch every day for
the 50 or 60, sometimes nearly 200 mem-
bers. It is through them that the billiard-
tables have recently been re-covered, and
a brand-new piano been presented to the
club.
The Pathfinders will hold their first
meeting for the New Year on January
9, at Legacy Torch Bearers H.Q., and they
are hoping to enrol a number of new
members. Members are looking forward
to getting together again after the holi-
day break and to drawing up plans for
the coming year whereby they can raise
funds for Legacy. The meeting will com-
mence at 6 p.m., and anyone interested
in joining the Pathfinders Group of Torch
Bearers can ring Mrs. Moss, XM5333,
for further details.
Thousands of Australians visiting
England in pre-war days met Mrs.
Blanche Evelyn Cooper Day, who died in
Sydney on New Year’s Eve. She was
official hostess for the Overseas League
in London and her thoughtfulness and
her many kindnesses made all the differ-
ence to visiting Australians. This Letter
has the memory of a very happy day
Spent at Hampton Court with Mrs.
Cooper Day.
The Eastern Regional Section of the
Y.W.C.A. commenced its annual confer-
ence at Frensham, Mittagong, on Friday,
December 26, when about 40 women
and girls took up residence in vacated
dormitories and class-rooms to discuss
new policy and plans arising from the
recent Y.W.C.A. World Conference held
in Hangchow, China, and also to hear
impressions gained by youthful Y.W.
delegates sent to the Oslo (Norway) Con-
ference of World Youth last August.
The R.P.A. Hospital Auxiliary has an
amazing record of service. It had its
28th annual meeting at the end of
1947, and the report showed no slacken-
ing in enthusiasm. In actual cash the
auxiliary raised almost £lO,OOO. Besides
money-raising, its activities included such
things as making garments for the hospi-
tal (5000 of these), and mending for the
hospital and patients. There’s a free
library, too, run by the Auxiliary.
What the workers for P.A. don’t
think of in the way of turning an honest
penny just isn’t worth considering. Chair-
man Dr. Herbert Schlink presided at the
meeting and outlined a really super
building plan, first building of which will
be a nurses’ home. The new block will
include buildings for research and disease
investigation, a public annexe to the King
George V, units for physiotherapy, T. 8.,
and even a school for nursing. Following
the statistics came tea. Chairman of the
auxiliary, Mr. McKenna, received the
official guests. Mrs. Schlink accompanied
her husband.
Reading Nesta Griffith’s Point Piper i?
rather like finding oneself in the midst
of a reception in the ballroom of Captain
Piper’s own Henrietta Villa with all the
yesterdays as alive as today. Everybody
who in the early days lived on Point
Piper had intimate bearing on the trend
of things in our own time. They must
have been rather exciting people, too,
for an imaginative little girl living in their
midst in the beginning of the nineteen-
hundreds. Imagine how starry-eyed any
youngster would become over a neighbor
who walked on the water from Darling
Point to Point Piper, as the handsome,
air-minded Mr. Lawrence Hargrave did,
using a sort of inflated water shoe. Later,
too, there was the thrill of another
neighbor, Surgeon Alexander McCormick,
sailing his own yacht from Falmouth to
Sydney.
Mrs. Patricia Trace, whose display of
dolls cunningly contrived of felt, with
each face painted with an individual
touch, was a pre-Christmas attraction,
goes off to England early in the New
Year. Mrs. Trace, who did a great deal
of repertory work with Gregan McMahon
in Melbourne, was for some time re-
cently a teacher at Kathleen Robinson’s
Whitehall Academy of Dramatic Art.


THE SERVICE MAN
"Rebellion" Fails in Greece.
“Ek Dum”: The present bid to estab-
lish Communist rule in north-western
Greece as a preliminary to greater things
has not met with the success for which the
Communists hoped.
The formation of General Markos’s
“Goverffßient” was first announced over
Belgrade and Moscow radios on De-
cember 15, showing, if any evidence was
needed, the clear origin of what was
happening. Markos is a hybrid Balkan
ruffian with no more patriotic interests in
Greece than Tito has in Yugoslavia.
Like Rakosi in Hungary, Beria in Poland,
Dmitrov in Bulgaria, Thorez in France,
Togliatti in Italy and some Aus-
tralian Communists, he regards himself as
an invading Russian general.
The move .in Greece was based on an
attempt to drive from Albania—served
by arms dumps and trained reserves in
that conquered bit of Russian territory
and in Yugoslavia— to take Konitza.
For a while the place was temporarily
surrounded. Then the central western
military and road centre of Yanina was
to be attacked.
It looked more like part of a Tito plan
for the control of the Adriatic than any-
thing. No doubt it has some linkage
with the Russo-Yugoslav design for tak-
ing over Trieste, which, despite all agree-
ments, is now a beleaguered city with
Tito’s troops looking down on it, their
fingers itching on the trigger.
The forces used in the Konitza busi-
ness have not been large and their recep-
tion was discouraging. Apart from the
fact that the United States immediately
showed its determination to increase its
aid and to send Marines to the Piraeus
in an aircraft-carrier with escort, one
very vital element of the Communist
plan went astray from the beginning.
Non-communist “Liberals” failed to “co-
operate.”
These “Liberals” are in the majority
in the dissident factions of Greece. Only
through their support can what is clearly
a foreign invasion be made to look like
patriotic insurrection. They were forced
out of line by the clumsy attitude of Tito
and his minions, who made it clear that
they would furnish arms and, if neces-
sary, men, but only on the condition that
any part of Greece “freed” should be-
come “federated” with Yugoslavia.
Markos, after 12 days’ haggling, formed
a “Government” without “Liberals.”
Hence the “rebellion;” became almost
entirely a Communist affair, and it was
easy for the Greek Government to arrest
Athens Communists without offending
“Liberal” opinion.
“Liberals” and other “Left-wing demo-
crats” seem to have learned from
neighboring examples what it means to
obtain power with the help of Moscow
and try to exercise it in association with
Moscow legates.
In Rumania, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia,
Poland and particularly Albania the result
has invariably been that the Left-wing
democrats find themselves presently
charged as quislings or as thinkers of
dangerous thoughts, after which, if they
cannot escape to one of the brutal capi-
talist countries, they are tied up by their
Communist allies' and slowly strangled
after the barbarous Czech manner, which
has ‘been so horribly demonstrated by
recent moving-pictures in some Australian
theatres.
This failure of Greek “Liberals” to
carry their patriotism to the point of
sacrificing themselves has as much to do
with the at least temporary defeat of
the Communist invasion as the Greek
Army. Rocket-firing aircraft provided
by the U.S. no doubt account for much
of the rest of the failure.
Manchuria in Danger.
“Ek Dum”: Fighting and conflict con-
tinue in many parts of Asia, though little
is heard of it.
Much that is taking place would, in
years before the war, have been a main
topic, but the world seems to be blase
about bloodshed.
By the standard of “little wars” the
campaign in Manchuria is on a major
scale. It is being fought on the Chinese
Government side by forces which, a few
years ago, were adjudged by Australian
and other Communists to be the real
Mackay in democracy, and to back which
the Empire was urged to go to war with
Japan.
Now that Japan is out of the way, and
the Communists have decided to take
over their role of Far Eastern imperialists,
the Nanking Government is esteemed
worse and treated worse than the Aus-
tralian and American Communists ever
treated Hitler and his followers.
There is no case on record, despite their
bluster, in which Communist-directed
unions held up arms and munitions or
the materials for making them bound for
Germany.
But that has happened in respect of
China, on whose side we were not so
long ago urged to enter into war.
The unions, largely run by Mr. Bridges,
on the American Pacific coast, including
Canada, have taken that step because
their leaders owe allegiance to the
U.S.S.R., and because anything which
interferes with the progress of Moscow’s
conquest of the world must be crushed.
It remains to be seen how far the U.S.
and Canadian Governments will sit down
under the embargo. Neither partakes of
the jelly-like composition of the Com-
monwealth “Government,” and it can be
taken for granted that if they decide that
arms and aircraft must reach Chiang
Kai-shek they will reach him.
The fighting in Manchuria is largely in
“Old Barnacle always remembers his traffic signals, sir.”
the dark because a blanket censorship
obscures most of the operations.
Its seriousness does not seem to be
appreciated by Australian newspapers,
which have a curious reluctance to high-
light what is happening.
The real facts are that on Christmas
Eve, the date of the latest information
available here, virtually the whole of
Manchuria off the main railway lines was
in Communist hands.
Of Mukden, Changchun and Kirin the
Chinese Government is still apparently
in possession. But the rest 'of the
503,000 square miles has fallen to the
Communists, and prospects are bleak for
the Chinese official cause.
Chiang Kai-shek has been fighting at
a bitter disadvantage. Communised
Korea and the Russian provinces sur-
round Manchuria, except on the south, as
the shell does an egg.
The Russians, after their four-day war
of “conquest” against the Japanese, who
had laid down their arms, and their locust-
like stripping of Manchuria of all the
facilities which by common consent of
the Allies belonged to the war-weary
Chinese, loosened their grip on occupied
territory only in such a manner that their
Communist vassals, armed with Russian
arms, officered by Russian-trained officers
and equipped with Russian booty and
aircraft, could take up their slack in base
defiance of their agreements with the
Chinese Government.
Of the railways which run through
Manchuria, the Manchurian section of
the Trans-Siberian line is now entirely
in Communist hands, along with its
branches from Tsitsihar, southward to
Taonanfu, and northward to Blagoves-
chensk, where tens of thousands of Jap-
anese war prisoners are supposed to be
building aerodromes on a gigantic scale.
It is on the direct air-mail route from
Vladivostok and Khabarovsk to Europe.
All the southern lines via Mukden into
China and Korea are either completely
cut, or severely interrupted, so far as the
Chinese Government is concerned.
Mukden itself, the very heart of Man-
churia, is surrounded or was virtually so
on Christmas Day, and the Communist
troops were within 15 miles of it. General
Fu Tso-yi, who has the Chinese command
in Jehol to the west, had received an
urgent call for help which showed the
gravity of the situation.
Cutting Off Peking
Further south Chinchow, the key junc-
tion between Mukden and Peking which
feeds northern traffic to the Chinese
northern capital and to Dairen and Shan-
haikwan, north-east of Peking, where the
Great Wall reaches the Yellow Sea, was
being surrounded, though it was not as
completely invested as Mukden, to which
train services have been stopped entirely.
There are no train services at all north
of the Wall which are not under control
by the Russian-Chinese Communist
armies, except short local runs.
Along the western margin of the Yellow
Sea, round Tangshan, which is only 50
miles or so from Tientsin and from
Peking’s railway to a port, and also
Peitaho and Chingwangtao, still a little
further north inside the sea coast on the
Mukden rail through Shanhaikwan, fight-
ing has been going on, the railroad being
repeatedly cut.
The line which runs west from Peking
to Kalgan also has been severed more
than once recently in an area hitherto
considered reasonably free of Communist
pressure.
And at least for some time the line
south to Hangkow has been broken.
This meant that Communists were virtu-
ally all round Peking. The Chinese com-
mander in Manchuria, General Chen
Cheng, was reported, before Christmas, to
be dangerously ill.
Chiang’s Confidence
The Chinese Government is, as usual,
meeting the situation gallantly. It was
reported on January 2 that fresh orders
for aircraft, including 150 Curtiss 46
troopcarriers, had been placed in the
United States. And General Chiang Kai-
shek told the National Assembly in Nan-
king on New Year’s Day that his army
could “crush the Communist irregulars
this year,” but that it would take years
to complete the work of pacification.
He said that the “threatened encircle-
ment of Mukden” had been frustrated
and that Nationalist troops had already
cleared large sections of the Peking-
Hangkow and Peking-Kalgan railways.
He said nothing of the other more
vital lines, and, intrepid as is his outlook,
the fact is that no clearing of Mukden’s
siege or partial siege could have been
effected in the time or without a, whole-
sale victory which certainly has not been
gained. The Communist “irregulars”
have long since ceased to be irregulars.
They are masters of Manchuria.
It is beyond question that China is in
the gravest danger. The Russians will
make every effort to overthrow Chiang
Kai-shek and have their own “Govern-
ment” in power in Nanking before they
agree to negotiate the Japanese peace
treaty, under which, of course, they will
endeavor to provide for the communisa-
tion of Japan as north Korea has been
communised.
Exit Burma.
“Ek Dum”; An inglorious consumma-
tion of the British victory in Burma has
been reached with the surrender of that
country to a “democratic” Government.
Burma has become a sort of Asian
Poland, with something very like the
Polish “socialism” grafted on a repub-
lican exterior. Arakan and Tenasserim
had been British since 1826, Pegu since
1852.
All the features which make for a
swift transition to Communist rule are
present. In # any case, the Attlees have
added a third party to the two nearly-
warring parties created next door, where
Pakistan is shouting that India intends
to destroy it and India that if Pakistan
does not withdraw its invaders from
Kashmir (“free patriot levies” to Paki-
stan), it can take the consequences'.
With a large, uneducated population,
much of it in the north non-Burman and
still wedded to the traditions of 80-da-
thone, the chances are that within a
very few years Burma will become a part
of darkest Asia, something of the order
of Siam or what Java will be if it reverts
completely to Jokjakartan ideals of gov-
ernment.
The Citizen Forces.
“Ek Dum”: Next June will see the
Commonwealth Government’s Citizen
Defence Force in existence—if volunteers
will come forward to constitute it.
The basis of enlistment is voluntary.
As only 60,000 men are to be called for,
the force should represent the flower of
Australian manhood, and there should be
hot competition for entry.
There is, as a matter of fact, consider-
able competition already for commands,
even though command entails heavy ex-
penditure of time and money to officers,
most of whom can ill afford it.
The enlistment of rank and file is likely
to be a different matter in most districts
around the cities. And the keeping of
men in the new battalions on the basis
of a few days of desultory drill and exer-
cises will be an almost impossible task
after the first flush of enthusiasm has
worn off.
Some organisation, both local and
national, is needed to stir up and keep
up enthusiasm. Both in Britain, where
there is a Territorials’ Association, and
in the United States, there are public
bodies which look after the welfare of
serving civilian soldiers, and help to pro-
duce a spirit of emulation and pride
among their units.
In Australia this is especially necessary,
and there is room for the big business
organisations to take a hand now to pave
the way—such bodies as the Graziers’
Association, the Employers’ Federation
and the Chambers of Manufactures and
of Commerce.
The basic need is to stimulate local in-
terest, and to provide attractions which
will lead to a general desire among young
men and women of military age to take
military training seriously, giving to it
not only the minimum periods allo-
cated by the Commonwealth’s plan—the
very setting of a minimum is suggestive
of a jail sentence —but whatever time is
actually needed to make training reason-
ably efficient.
The conception of an area-training
H.Q. hitherto has been a bare and dismal
drill-hall which looks like an empty
fodder store, surrounded by a bare piece
of land which looks as if it had been im-
ported from the land of Edom.
The proper conception of a local H.Q.
is a bright building, well fitted for social
activities and for physical training, which
can be used as a community centre. The
organisation behind it should be sup-
ported by a strong local committee and
local funds, and it should be associated
with and part of the public life of the
district.
Since physical fitness and co-ordination
become more and more important every
year in military service, and since know-
ledge of mechanics and mathematics is
almost a necessity to the good soldier,
training should be linked with sport and
education. One of the basic requirements
of every battalion or company is its sport-
ing and athletic teams. Inter-unit trophies
are needed, and every battalion or district
organisation should be able to run its
annual athletic meeting, from which the
organisation funds should benefit.
Night trade and general educational
classes in subjects of use both to the
soldier and the civilian can be developed
with a little effort.
And lastly there should be a women’s
auxiliary to organise both civilian and
military aids to the unit.
Provision of these facilities should be
under way now in every city and every
country town which hopes to become a
unit base.
It is a matter in which municipal coun-
cils and the bodies of returned servicemen
might well take the lead, and in which
war-time battalion associations could
readily act as godfathers to their suc-
cessors and set the machinery in motion,
so that the lads who go into the force
next June will have some organised
ground under their feet other than the
formal official organisation.


Rubber Rivets
to save
lives!
• At the turn of the last cen-
tury, gay young blades who
flung their motor cars along
the highways at 30 or 40 miles
an hour, were often endangered
by the sudden separation of the
tyre tread from the carcass.
“Tread throwing’’, it was call-
ed! When this happened in
roaid racing, the unlucky compe-
titor had to forget the prize-
mcney and retire, or drive on
at the risk of a serious crack-
up.
The quality of the tyre car-
casses was improved in the
1000’s so that blowouts ceased
to be a problem. Average motor-
ing speeds, however, had in-
creased, and highways were
poor. Tyres had to “take it”
from rough cobbled stones,
ruts and fallen timber.
Treads, too, had been made
tough enough to give reasonably
long wear; but where the tread
joined the tyre carcass, trouble
started! Where the flexing
tread met the rigid tyre car-
cass, a tremendous strain was
set up; the tread separated
from the tyre and accidents
frequently resulted.
Goodyear Research men, un-
der the direction of P. W.
Litchfield, had “been working
on a Breaker Strip. This
rubberised fabric was designed
to absorb road shocks at the
point where the tread joined
the tyre carcass, and distribute
the shocks evenly around the
tyre. Some success was
achieved, but the problem was
far from solved.
Mr. Litchfield then devised
an entirely new Breaker Strip
which used the principle of
Lose the prize-money or risk
his life; which will it be?
rubber rivets. Previous Breaker
Strips were made from closely
woven fabric impregnated with
rubber, but the threads, being
so close together, did not allow
a good bond between tread and
tyre. No fabric of the type
conceived by Mr. Litchfield was
available, so he set a team of
girls to work on standard
fabric, pulling out every second
thread so that the fabric had
many holes. Breaker Strips
made from this fabric were
tried and perfected. “Tread
throwing” became another
motoring hazard overcome by
the skill and determination of
Goodyear Research men.
The holes between the cord
in the Breaker fabric allowed
rivets of rubber to passthrough
from tread to tyre carcass.
Road shocks were evenly dis-
tributed and a close adhesion
between tread and tyre was
secured. Special processes had
to be evolved at cotton mills
for making Goodyear’s Breaker
Strips. Later this type of
Breaker Strip became standard
throughout the whole tyre
industry.
For the past 32 years more
people, the world over, have
ridden on Goodyear tyres than
on any other make. You, too,
will find these tyres longer
wearing, safer and more com-
fortable.'
good/year
CIBA/167
o II 0
.rtjS'SWTHC 33 J_
QQ
/<
m
333
555 'dyMukwjd (P6ea£& 9
mm
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
In three States racing over the
turn of the year had interferences a
bit beyond the stewards. In Sydney
there was enough rain to irrigate the
Nullarbor. In Adelaide a plague of
’hoppers did their darndest to in-
troduce dirt-track racing and forced
riders to wear goggles. At Flemington
the 70-year-old Hill Stand went up
in flames to the tune of £lOO,OOO
damage while the last race was being
run on New Year’s Day.
At Randwick on Thursday Tatter-
sail’s Cup, run in a steady down-
pour, went to the 4-to-l favorite Skip
Bonlber (J. Thompson). Curiously,
better odds —as much as sixes—were
available against the winner after the
race, in betting on the photo.-finish.
Skip Bomber and Crusader hit the
line virtually on terms, with Kerry
Lad half a length further back. After
his experience in incorrectly nomina-
ting a deadheat the previous Satur-
day, the judge this time called for a
second and more distinct photograph,
which takes a good deal longer to
prepare. It showed Skip Bomber to
have won by about the same margin
as did Except in what had been given
as a deadheat.
Cosnections of the Hua colt Bonnie
Prince had fair grounds for com-
plaint against the handicapping of
their horse in the Nursery. A maiden
performer, he had finished second at
each of his three starts, yet was given
a plaster of 9.2 and asked to concede
weight to several winners, including
Danger and Newborough, who had
both beaten him at their only pre-
vious starts.
The Nursery was run in two
divisions. Bonnie Prince, in the first,
ran third behind Danger (G. Moore)
and promising Pentondale. New-
borough (F. Walker), further impres-
sing as an exceptionally good ’un,
defeated Blue Diamond and Viola
Fair in the second division.
The Mr. Standfast colt Except (G.
Moore) made up for his stiff luck
in the disputed deadheat, getting the
better of the camera in the New
Year’s Gjft, a seven-furlongs event
for three-year-olds. Shading appeared
to have the race well won but
squibbed. Belle Cherie third.
Starting at 15 to I—the only long-
priced winner of the day—the Felcrag
mare Glencrag finished stoutly to
down Lucky Escape and Darius in
the six-furlongs Highweight. Glen-
crag was ridden by K. Cook, his first
winner in Sydney for several years.
The mile Trial Stakes went to Burnley
(J. Thompson) and the Alfred Hill
Handicap, over a similar distance, to
the Chatham gelding Chatlock (W.
Cook), with Edinburgh next.
On Saturday it was Moorefield;
eight races, but most interest centred
on the Flying and Peter Moore
Handicaps.
For most punters interest in the
main double was short lived. Con-
fidently reported in the Sydney press
as an unlikely starter, Strathdarr (T.
Mullane) not only started in the Fly-
ing but won it. He was 12 to 1
with the books and paid 16 to 1 on
the win tote. The racebook shows
Strathdarr as raced by “A. Yarn.”
Unlucky Dowborough was second and
Verbage next.
The Peter Moore Handicap (1 Of.)
went to Royal Court, starting at 25
to 1 and giving a game display to
down Lady Marie and Laudus. Royal
Court is owned by S.T.C. committee-
man George Ryder and A. Dowling.
They must have confidence in appren-
tice R. Selkrig; the lad’s only pre-
vious success in Sydney was on one
of Ryder’s horses.
Riding in great form of late, T.
Doon landed the Two-year-old on
General, a MacArthur colt who had
too much toe for Annabel Lee, Jupiter
and others. The success cost Doon
a two-months suspension for careless
riding. Two. months seems stiff for
trouble arising in a race contested
by a bunch of green two-year-olds.
Surely there should be some allow-
ance on that account.
* * * *
Thursday at Flemington saw
“Lucky” Porter somewhat more so
than he has been for some time,
winning both legs of the Standish
and Bagot double, with High Play
and Black Law. Neither win was
received with any noticeable joy by
the majority of the 49,000 crowd.
Getting away well, High Play pro-
duced a turn of speed which proved
too hot for even such a flier as Gay
Queen. Though tiring over the last
bit, High Play, with Martin riding
vigorously, withstood a strong chal-
lenge from Law List; Gay Queen a
close third. A New Zealand-bred
gelding, High Play cut out the six
in 1.12, racing into a stiff breeze. He
started at 20 to 1 and paid much
better on the tote.
Heavily backed for several recent
failures, Black Law was allowed to
start at 15 to 1 for the 14-furldngs
Bagot Handicap. The country per-
former Uncle Joe set a fast pace,
A. Cooper keeping Black Law bowl-
ing along in second place, while Beau
Juste was running third. Turning for
home, with Joe weakening. Black Law
and Beau Juste lit out for the judge.
The Mr. Standfast horse got there
with two lengths to spare, Beau Juste
narrowly shading Orthodox.
Apart from avoiding confusion, it
should be a matter of courtesy to see
that well-known race-names are not
used for minor events in other States.
Melbourne has a Metropolitan Handi-
cap which doesn’t really compare
with the Randwick event, and Thurs-
day’s two-year-old scamper was called
the Stradbroke Handicap. In this
“Stradbroke” the Law Maker colt
Ungar (H. Badger) added to his un-
beaten record and gave trainer F. W.
Hoysted his seventh two-year-old win
for the season. Downing Delhi and
Raysun, Ungar clocked 59|sec. for
the five furlongs.
Any award going for consistency
has been thoroughly earned by the
Law Maker gelding Law List. Beaten
only a neck in the Standish, he was
saddled up again at Mentone on
Saturday to take the Ascot Thousand.
His last six starts" have yielded four
wins and two seconds. At Mentone,
ridden by J. Purtell, he came from
behind to down the pacemaker Star
of India and Greensborough.
Bray Law made it a double for
both Purtell and the Law Maker
breed by downing Laudate and Lunar
Lynx in the mile Desborough Handi-
cap.
* * * *
The American handicapper framing
weights for the rich 10-furlongs Santa
Anita Handicap expressed a high
opinion of Shannon, rating him equal
second-best of the 117 entries.
Shannon and Argentinian galloper
Rico Monte have 9st. U.S. champion
Armed heads the weights with 9.4;
Armed failed last year with 9.3.
* * * *
Reported to have won a race at a
provincial meeting near Lithgow
(N.S.W,), the pony Kentucky! Race-
goers with long memories will re-
member him —a dabster in 14.2 handi-
caps in his day. He really is near
voting age—rising 20!
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Nursery (fillies): Viola Fair, 1;
Annabel Lee, 2; La Glacis, 3. Three-
year-old : Caribbean, 1; Penmore, 2;
Except, 3. Juvenile: Pentondale, 1;
Admetus, 2; General, 3. Novice:
Cambridgeshire, 1; Ruawalla, 2;
Silver Buzz, 3. Sefton Handicap:
Earl Pentheus, 1; Beau Robert, 2;
Gay Monarch, Warwick January
Handicap: Monsoon, 1; Skip
Bomber, 2; Mentone, 3. Minto
Handicap: Indarra, 1; Souvenir, 2;
Chatlock, 3.
* * * *
Third Test;
The excellent Indian fancy for
bright cricket proving infectious, and
Barnes, who leans to the other sort,
going early for 12, Melbourne Cricket
Ground onlookers (45,327) saw some
breezy Australian batting for their
money on the first day of the third
Test —355 for 8 wickets. As usual, it
was chiefly Bradman —132 before he
went l.b.w. to Phadkar.
On the second day the Australian
total ended at 394; Amarnath and
Mankad each bagging 4 wickets.
Mankad did even better with the bat
—ll6 of the Indian total for the
day of 262 for 6. With Sarwate he
gave the tourers their first really
sound start, first wicket falling for
.124. Their hopes were suddenly sent
west by Barnes, surprisingly getting
the valuable wickets of Hazare and
Amarnath with successive deliveries.
Banking on overnight rain having
done enough to make the wicket
Bradman-proof, the Indian innings
was closed at 9 for 291. Bradman
opened with some tail-enders, but
these going quickly, and Barnes with
them (this time for 15), it was up to
Bradman himself. Four were down
for 32 when he and Morris got
going, and both of them were still
there, with respectively 127 and 100
against their names, when play ended
for the day. It was Don’s first
centuries in both innings of a Test;
his 103rd century in first-class cricket,
26th in Tests, fifth against India, and
sixth in first-class play this season.
On Monday Bradman “declared”
and on a damaged pitch the Indian
wickets toppled fast; all out 125.
South Aus. (490 and 1 for 3) had
an easy win over Queensland (248
and 244) in the Sheffield Shield at
Adelaide; N.S.W. (420 and 4 for
185) downed Victoria (130 and 474)
in Melbourne. The N.S.W. v.
Queensland Shield match in Sydney
was pretty well obliterated by rain;
Q. losing 5 for 238 between showers
for the first couple of days’ play.
/•* * •- • •
Keith Johnson, of Mosman
(N-S.W.), who managed the Services
side in England and India, will have
the same job on the Test trip to
Britain. Other Board of Control
decisions: Embargo lifted to permit
wives of players to be in England,
but not travel with the team. Ban
on player-writers imposed. Board
accepted M.C.C. instruction that new
ball be taken after 55 six-ball overs
or 200 runs during tour. Only one
appeal against the light allowed by
either side, umpires becoming solely
responsible thereafter.
* * * *
Good forward play, good defence
and individual brilliance made the
Wallabies’ W-nil victory over Eng-
land : a combination of Rugby virtues
which should please anyone. Gener-
ally the Australian forwards shaded
the Englishmen; Buchan, Cooke and
“We'll sack our beaters tomorrow. Plum—your snore
gets better results!”
Shehadie were outstanding, and
Windon, playing a brilliant attack-
ing game, scored two tries. Walker,
appearing in his first Test, justified his
place with the other try, a striking
individual effort.
The Wallabies have now played 29
games, winning 25 and losing four,
and have won three of the four Tests.
The record compares well with that
of the 1908-09 Wallabies, who won
25 games out of 31 and beat Eng-
land but lost to Wales, and the
Waratahs, who won 24 out of 31 and
beat Ireland, Wales and France, but
were beaten by Scotland and England.
The present tourers haven’t had their
line crossed in any of the inter-
national games.
* * * *
The Victorian four-oar crew earned
the right to represent at the games by
downing the N.S.W. crew in the
Olympic Test Race at Ballarat. It
was a superb race, the two crews
going stroke for stroke all the way
and less than a length separating them
at the finish. The distance was 1850
metres, which is to be the Olympic
distance this year instead of the usual
2000 metres.
* * * *
Yachts contesting the Sydney-
Hobart race struck it foul as they
neared the Speck; most had sails and
gear carried away and the crew of
Moonbi, in particular, had a lively
hour or so bailing out with sauce-
pans after being swamped by a Davy
Jones special. First across the line
in Hobart tyas the 65ft. cutter Morna.
Morna collected first prize in the
A Division (large yachts), but on ad-
justed times wasn’t placed in the
race, placings going to WesNvard,
Moonbi, Peer Gynt and Kintail in
that order, for both the race and
the small yachts division. Tasmanian-
owned by G. D. Gibson, Westward
is a 41ft. sloop; her adjusted time
was four days 24 minutes 56 seconds
(actual sailing time 133 hours 19
minutes).
* * * *
The South Aus. tennis championship
produced an all-American final, Brink
defeating Moylan 6-4, 6-4, 6-3.
* * * *
Nobody ever questioned Vic Pat-
rick’s gameness, and maybe it’s'more
pluck than good sense that has
brought him back from one of the
briefest “final retirements” on record.
He’s due to meet Micky Tollis in
Melbourne next month. After the
drubbing that made Patrick “retire,”
his successful comeback would chiefly
prove how far Australian pugdom
has slipped.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: The little steamer
Struggler, Tommy Joy at her wheel, was
racing down to Mildura at a full 6.3
knots an hour with the Tapalin dried-
peach crop aboard, a drunk asleep on the
stem, two kangaroo-dogs tied to the after
stanchion of the port wheel-box, and the
sun going down. ’Twas New Year’s Eve
and less than 20 river-miles to go, and the
skipper and both of the crew looked
forward zestfully to the imminent cele-
brations. An hour after dark and before
they could sight the Gol Gol light a white
fog came off the N. S. Welsh coast and
wrapped them close. Tommy rang down
half-speed and tugged his whistle - cord
regularly till the engineer-fireman-cook
shoved his head out and roared, “What
the this-an’-that do y’ think y’re doin’
with my crimson steam?” Tommy de-
sisted, just shaved a derelict barge on
the Victorian coast, thought he could
hear the Nicholl’s Point pumps, suddenly
decided it was a. steamer’s paddles and
jerked his whistle-cord and held it hard.
The engine-room raved. The fog
thickened and Tommy rang for dead
slow. “If I can’t use the whistle we’ll
just have t’ creep down,” he said. An
eerie half-hour passed. Captain and crew
debated the wisdom of tying up for the
night and walking the rest. The drunk
snored. The fog lay white and silent.
For want of the will to stop they kept
the paddles turning and oozed down-
stream. Then came a breeze and the
fog broke up. “Slap it into her!” roared
Tommy, and the paddles sprang to life.
Then they sheepishly reversed, swung the
Struggler about and went back to
Mildura, two miles astern.
“That makes me twenty-one up!”
“Prop”: However he may have pro-
nounced his name (B. 10/12/’47), Edward
John Eyre has suffered an injustice at the
hands of writers of school history books.
Thousands of Australians have grown up
associating Eyre with a mad dash across
the Bight. Actually his real work was
done, although he did not realise it, before
he started on that harebrained attempt at
suiqide. Leaving Adelaide in the first
place, with bands playing, he travelled
north to Lake Torrens and followed the
eastern shores of that dead and damned
river valley. Blocked by Lake Torrens
on the west, by Lake Eyre on the north
and by Callabonna and Frome on the
east, he turned back. But the accounts
of his journey excited land-hungry spirits
in Adelaide. As a direct consequence of
his “unsuccessful” trip the first stations in
S.A.’s north were pre-empted ; first Pekina
and Mt. Brown in the Quorn-Orroroo
area, then Arkaba, north of the present
township of Hawker. Next Wilpena was
taken up on the north of Arkaba, lead-
ing to a boundary dispute that brought
the first surveyor into the north. Those
stations, with Aroona, were the stepping-
stones to South Australian occupation of
the northern desert. The desert turned
Eyre back. Eyre’s journals brought the
sheepmen in. And since then a desert, to
Croweaters, has been a place in some
other country.
* * * *
“Narrin”: Although “Naturala’s”
humble bees may pollinate red clover,
the clover crop depends basically on cats.
The population of humble bees in a dis-
trict depends on the numbers of field
mice, which destroy the nests of the bees ;
and doesn’t the field-mouse census fluc-
tuate with the number of cats in the
locality?
* * * *
“Hanko”: We’re having a quiet drink
in a Riverina (N.S.W.) bush pub when a
huge gorilla of a man burst through the
door and thumped on the counter. The
mate and I sidled along the bar a bit and
began to gabble nervously *of nothing at
all. Then Bung came in. “Give us three
glasses of rum,” said the big bloko. “One
at a time is good fishin’, mate,” said
Bung. The big snoozer eyed him a while,
then leaned forward. “I want three
glasses of rum,” he rumbled. The pub-
lican swallowed his Adam’s-apple a
couple of times, then: “All right,” he
stammered. “Have it your way.” And he
shot a measure of rum into each of three
glasses. The big bloke threw down the
money, pulled a pickle-bottle from his
pocket and poured the rum into it. “The
missus wants it for makin’ plum pud-
dm’s,” he said with a sheepish grin. “So
long.”
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Dad Barkley’s vegetable
garden had been a picture: but cows
have no consciences. The old rogue of
the herd pushed the wires down and let
herself and the others in one morning,
and Dad found them trampling and
chewing the battered remains. With a
roar he set the dogs on them and sent
them galloping to the far corner of the
farm. I came on him grimly surveying
the ruins. “More than enough is too
much f’r blasted cows,” he said. “They
fill up quick an’ then look f’r mischief.
Next time I get a vegetable patch going
I’ll lock ’em up to starve half the time,
so’s they’ll be too busy grazing when
they’re out t’ bother me plants.”
* * * *
“Flathead”: Harry Jubb, in the prow
of the dinghy, undertook to show the
beginners down aft the proper way to
fish. “I’m in an amateur club,” he told
them. “No heavy tackle or wire traces
for us —sportsmanship is the motto. See
this here No. 3 gut? Well* I’ll land the
biggest with it.” For five minutes the
dinghy bobbed ; then, as Harry’s line spat
out through the water, he quoted from the
Club Creed. “Once you’ve got a fish
like this on, don’t tug on your line. Just
drop your cork over the side and let
the cork unwind itself—dragging all that
about tires him. Never unwind your line
in the boat, for it’s sure to catch on some-
thing.” Completely unwound, the cork
started to move off across the surface.
“Now,” said Harry, “you get another line
ready with just a loop in the end and
hitch it over the other cork.” Harry
pulled over to the fleeting cork and put
Lesson 2 into practice. But he was
fast losing his professor-like calm as he
feverishly uncoiled the second line in the
boat. Twenty yards went out before the
“I just keeps to the centre , and to hell with the road hogs.”
line snagged in a copper rivet on the gun-
wale, drew tight and sprang back limp.
For every yard he pulled in, Harry
uttered a different curse, surpassing them
all wh'6n he discovered that his No. 3 gut
had snapped off at its cork. “Anyway,
that’s what it says in the Rules book,” he
said, adding, as diving into his bag he
brought out a lethal heavy cord, wire
trace and all, “I’m sticking to this.”
* * * *
“Glynn”: Can’t say I have ever seen
a Moreton Bay fig germinate on the
ground (B. 17/12/’47), but if it doesn’t
I’d like to know how the transplanted
varieties got around. Before the Adelaide
City Council replaced them with jaca-
randas there was an avenue of Moreton
Bays in Wakefield-street. There are also
some in the Adelaide Botanic Gardens.
As the Wakefield-street trees were obvi-
ously planted to a pattern, even if those
in the gardens managed to find their
own way there in spite of the fact that
the trees are not indigenous to South
Australia, whoever planted them must
have gone to a lot of trouble carting a
“host” tree along just to get the figs to
strike.
* * * *
“H.A.L.”: Adelaide Bush Walkers,
surveying small and economically value-
less islands off the S.A. coast with the
object of having them declared flora and
fauna sanctuaries, have confirmed some-
thing which will please all nature-lovers
—the fur seal ’is at last staging a come-
back. Few Australian creatures were
subjected to such a savage butchery in
the bad old days as this slim, graceful
and harmless creature. Not much larger
than a medium-sized dog, with a hand-
some, intelligent-looking head and a body
clothed in one of the finest furs known,
the fur seal does not spend its time ashore
basking on shelving rocks, but seeks deep
clefts and cracks in the granite. Except
the old bulls at certain seasons, all seals
are friendly, amusing things; after a few
days spent alongside a fur-seal rookery
we had the little chaps literally eating out
of our hands. May they increase and
flourish!
* * * *
“Camsa”: Most unusual feature of the
grasshoppers’ invasion of the settled areas
of South Oss has been that in the Burra
district ’hoppers literally kicked fowls
to death. The chooks had been
swallowing the ’hoppers alive, and as the
pests, imprisoned in the gullets, kicked
out in protest their saw-like back legs
cut into the jugular veins, .causing the
fowls to bleed to death.
* * * *
“Plankton”: Concerning “B. A. Ker’s”
queries (B. 17/12/’47). Shark-egg cap-
sules are formed of a tough leathery
substance, usually flatfish and of quad-
rangular shape, though in the case of
the queer Port Jackson species (2) pear-
shaped with a projecting spiral phalange.
Slim curling tendrils or woolly masses of
fine threads extend from the ends of the
capsules ; coloring ranges from yellow to
brown and black. The gelatinous oval
objects mentioned seem to be a seaweed,
common along the eastern coasts. As for
the colonies of stalked creatures attached
to driftwood, these are stalked barnacles,
closely related to the small acorn variety
commonly seen on rocks. They are actu-
ally crustaceans and cousins to the prawn
tribe. In infancy the barnacles are quite
like their relatives, then suddenly they
grow a bivalve shell. Soon they attach
themselves to a solid object by means of
a cement secreted by their antennae,, and
remain fixed for life. Other changes
follow, and finally we notice the creature
equipped with additional shell-armor
contentedly standing on its head and able
to secure ample nourishment by the
simple process of kicking out its numer-
ous slim legs so as to swirl its minute
prey within, reach of the mouth.
* * H* ♦
“Biime”: Smiler, hands and chin
resting on his shovel-handle, was a
familiar figure along the district by-roads.
For 15 years he’d stuck to the shire job,
first as spreader, then filler of potholes,
and the last few years had found him
watching the world go by from the shelter
of a table-drain. Then a relative-in-need
called Smiler to another district, and
the locals organised a send-off. “You
know, we’re goin’ to miss a man like
Smiler,” boomed the impressive voice of
the shire president. “He’s been standin’
by now for fifteen years, an’ I tell you,
y’ get kind of attached to things after
that time.” Replying, Smiler did his
best. “Talkin’ o’ gettin’ attached t’
things,” he mentioned. “Yair, I bet the
president’s right. Take me old shovel.
I'm goin’ to miss that shovel. Bloke gits
sort o’ used to it after workin’ with it
for fiftgen years. Though, mind y’,” he
insisted doggedly, “I said at the time, an’
I’m still sayin’, that the one that gang
boss issued t’ me is a bit long in the
blade for road work, an’ the handle’s a
trifle rough where y’ grip.”
* * * *
“Keidal”: Bountiful seasons sometimes
do strange things to plants. At Hay
(N.S.W.) the purple-flowered Paterson’s
Curse can be seen with up to a dozen
flatfish stalks joined together side by side
and looking not unlike a miniature hedge.
Have seen much the same sort of
phenomenon in scotch thistles when con-
ditions have been lush.
* • * * *
“Macnell”: When Professor Auguste
Piccard at the end of the year drops 2j
miles in his spherical bathysphere into
the pressured Atlantic depths he can ex-
pect to sight some fantastic deep-sea
denizens as did Professor Beebe off
Bermuda. Outside the swathe of Beebe’s
searchlight the darkness was absolute, re-
lieved only by the scattered luminosity
from fish and floating organisms. But in-
side the brilliant shaft there were strange
zeppelin snails, swimming securely en-
cased in a pressure-resisting tissue like
cellophane. Some were shaped like a
paper dart. Jellyfish floated past fitted
with gas floats’ adaptable to varying pres-
sures of different depths. One deep-sea
shrimp, chased by a sabre-toothed viper-
fish, poured forth a cloud of flame to
blind its enemy. The viper-fish (named
by its first and only human examiner)
has a mouth like an open portcullis, its
teeth curved, sharp and treacherous as
fish-hooks. There were transparent eels
like graceful wraiths Swaying in the
water, almost invisible except for two
great eyes of red, and a giant squid, its
body specially strengthened to withstand
the pressure of its mile-deep caves, which
had eyes at the tips of two of its tentacles
like bulfseyes and one huge glaring orb
on top of its hideous body. Imagine the
enormous force the flesh and bones of
these fish were resisting and one appreci-
ates why fish, blown to the surface by
depth charges, burst open when hauled
on deck.
SUMMER TOWNSHIP.
Straggling lines of old white fences,
Spreading fields of red and brown,
Faded haystacks, lucerne patches,
Line of willows drooping down.
Dried-up creek of stones and pebbles,
Clay banks yellow, white and worn,
Roots of trees all gnarled and twisted
Sticking out from red earth torn.
Old white bridge of dusty timber.
Shaking to both hoof and heel,
Echoing with trembling rumble
Dray and cart and buggy-wheel.
High above the town the hill-top,
Baked and brown and bare of tree
Save the old stump solitary
And the brambles wild and free.
Hard against the blue sky burning
Clump of pines dark to the eye,
With the red of chimney showing
And the windmill in the sky.
Clustered group of white roofs glaring,
Smoke from chimneys misty blue
’Gainst the blur of distant ranges
And the hot road running through.
*
’Neath the trees, horses in shadow,
Cattle bunched in isles of shade,
Cicadas drumming in the gum-trees
Their shrill, deafening serenade.
High above the red sun blazing,
White the heat-clouds riding high;
Hot the smell of dried burnt grasses,
And the wide bush brown and dry.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


The “MARS” High-Speed
PLANING MACHINE
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision workshop,
the “MARS” Planer is of a proved
design and capable of obtaining
maximum output from high-speed
cutting tools. All essential revolving
parts are dynamically balanced - - -
all gear teeth are generated .
j
ĵ
MARS MACHINE TOOL
MFG. CO. PTY. LTD.
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers, Planers
BRIDGE STREET,
VALLEY, BRISBANE.
I
Licensed
Manufacturers
in Q’land of
“Meehanite”
Metals.
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.—Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd. VIC. —Servian
Machine Tools (Aust.), Brunswick, Melbourne.' S.A. —Wiles Trading Co., 123 King
William St., Adelaide. W.A. —The Western Machinery Co., Ltd., Perth. TAS. —
Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart. N.Z. —Motor Specialties, Ltd., Auckland. CALCUTTA
—Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Rd. BOMBAY PROVINCE—R. S. Mehta & Co.,
Ltd., Fort Bombay. HONGKONG AND SHANGHAI—The East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
RtVltf'
BLOTCHY
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health." Always
keep a tin of Cnticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment, Soap and
Talcum Powder.,
533
fiitlcura
VOINTMENT?
jS.
u
r
DAILY IRREGULARITY
uxut tooJUrn# firracfiofi
If you suffer from biliousness, headache or
other symptoms of daily irregularity or, in
other words, constipation, do something
positive about it now. Delay may aggravate
the symptoms. To-night, take Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills, the gentle-acting veget-
able laxative. This household remedy usually
relieves constipation quickly and thoroughly,
without griping or unpleasant after-effects.
Get an economical bottle of Dr. Morse s
Indian Root Pills and take a course.
DR MORSES DaOT
Indian
far
“Bo”: Steve, the little old swaggie,
trudged along the dusty road, at his heels
a tired and dusty dog. Turning in at
the bend to Carroll’s open gateway he
made his way down the long drive and
round to the kitchen door. When Mrs.
Carroll had given him the latest of many
hand-outs, she stood and watched him, a
Smile on her jolly face, as he hoisted his
long perpendicular “drum,” to the bottom
end of which was tied his blackened
billy, bumping against his left leg.
The back of the trouser-leg of his blue
denims, from the knee almost to the
ankle, was black from the billy’s rubbing.
As Steve started to plod up the drive
Mrs, Carroll sang out: “Steve, why don’t
you tie the billy a bit higher so it won’t
keep bumping your leg? It would be
easier for you, I’m sure.” Steve stopped,
turned and regarded his benefactress with
a look that was tinged with disappoint-
ment. “Spare me days, I didn’t think
you’d want a bloke to practise
croolty, Mrs. Carroll,” he said, “You’ve
ridden in trains, haven’t y’, and
bin rocked to sleep by the regular sound
o’ the wheels goin’ over the joints in the
rails? Well, it’s the same with me pup
here in the billy. It’s the regular knockin’
of the billy against me leg that sends him
to sleep. Gripes, if he couldn’t get
regular sleep now he might grow up so
he couldn’t sleep properly, an’ a bloke’d
never live it down.” And with the pup’s
mother within a few inches of his heels
he trudged off again in the dust.
* H; & *
“Zimple Zimon”: In a recent quiz
one of the posers put was: “What is the
name of the horny protruberances on the
forelegs of the horse?” The answer
given was “Chestnuts.” Now, having
always heard such objects referred to as
“corns” I looked up the Concise Oxford
dictionary—in vain. Now, is there a
hippologian on the Council able to inform
me if “chestnut” is the correct term;
and, if so, whence the derivation?
♦ * * *
“Colonial Cove”: I’d go even further
than “Shamuseen” (B. 3/12/’47) and
point out that, at the time of the Cauca-
sian invasion, the males of many Aus-
tralian tribes wore a bone ornament thrust
through the septum of the nose. But
that, like “S.’s” Cape York natives with
their sharkskin and bead and bark orna-
ments, doesn’t alter the fact that the
primitive abo. -had no use for non-essen-
tial objects, a contempt which he showed
towards the white man’s gewgaws. Those
ornaments were things that had come
down to him hallowed by time, with a
mystic meaning whispered among the
old men of the tribe. True, when asked
why he wore a tight skin strap around his
forehead the abo. would probably reply
that it made him “proper flash pfeller.”
But a w hite questioner would receive the
same answer should he inquire about the
wearing of a wanninge ; which ethno-
j 0„ k now to be an object of peculiar
® . A f c + r ;noina of hrioht
mystery. As for the stringing of br gn
berries to form a necklace, that was prob-
ably something learned from the Malays.
An(i on walkabouts berry necklaces
Would be the first thing to be thiown
away.
* .* * * _
“Propalong”: A feature of this S.A.
district are the grey ridges, running to
th £ north-north-east, lizard-haunted, set
with gnarled .tarbush and stunted blue-
bush. These ridges are made up of a
hard blue-grey, crystalline limestone of
A • ° *lu * „ i -j
Cambrian age that was laid down some
150 million years ago when this land mass
was under the sea and vertebrate life had
. . Some of the ridtres are
n ot yet begun, o' m g
actually reefs, but not of coral. They
are made up of the fossil remains of a
ree f-building animal that may be inter-
rotate between .he sponges and the
great animal group that embraces the
jellyfish, corals and sea anemones—a sort
0 f m i ss i ng ii n k between mere colonies of
. P A „ 0 n„
cells, in the sponges, and organised cellu-
lar animals, in the coelenterates. On the
slopes below the ridges there are occa-
sional masses of white travertine lime-
“Pep it up, Jock —Were on the concrete now!”
stone, s and in the perpendicular clay
banks *of the watercourses that dissect the
flats between one sees a white, limy
mottling in the red clay. Both the white
limestone and the white marks are the
descendants of the ancient blue marble.
Rainwater,. running over the bluestone,
carries off lime in solution. The lime-
charged water soaks in to the flats and
later evaporates slowly, leaving the lime
behind. After a few centuries there is
sufficient deposited lime to be visible as
white flecks in the clay; after long
periods of time the flecks join into the
solid limestone sheets so common in the
Murray mallee. Nature is economical;
she can’t bear to see materials she played
with scores of millions of years ago
wasted.
* * * #
“Gravelsnatcher”: I listened to the
rollicking laughing carol of the butcher-
bird. The swoop that woke me from my
reverie coincided with the emergence
from the house of a skirted avenger wav-
ing a broom wildly. From the top of
a high gum the feathered murderer cocks
his head side-on and looks down specu-
latively at the canaries and their guardian.
Then he silently flies off to resume the
attack from another quarter. He is
pressing it these, days in the interests of
two rather smudgy replicas of himself
and spouse. They’ve passed the initial
flying stage and there’s no doubt they’ll
develop into as accomplished buccaneers
as dad. As co-guardian of the
canaries, I’m his sworn enemy, pledged
to kill on sight, and several near-misses
testify to my devotion to duty. But in
the evening, when I put aside the rifle
that has never yet failed me, I gaze up
at the big white gum near the house.
Perched on the topmost branch, bathing
in the golden shafts of a sun that has
already passed from my sight, the butcher-
bird sings his laughing song again.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It was a hot, thunderous
day and the sheep moved sluggishly
through the drafting-pens. Fine dust rose
and hung in clouds, half-blinding and
half-choking us. The boss, usually a
reasonable man, became as stubborn as
the dashed sheep, and when we suggested
turning it up until the cool came he
savagely insisted that we go on. At lunch-
time, while we sat in the shade, Matthew
observed, “It’s time we snatched it.
The boss is gettin’ too bloomin’ familiar
for mine. Talkin’ t’ us like we was fix-
tures on the place.” “Aw,” I said,
“he’s all right. The day’s got him
rattled, that’s all.” In the afternoon it
was worse. The sun fairly burned down
through the hanging dust and we had
literally to manhandle the sheep through
the race. Even the dogs tired. Then the
boss gave in. “All right,” he croaked ;
“let’s chuck it.” Mat and I crawled grate-
fully into the shade Under the shed, where
the dogs already lay. A yard of dusty,
weary old ewes regarded us steadily for
a while, then one by one they began to
come in under the shed and bed-down
alongside us. Mat tried to spit, took
another pull at the water-bag and then
drawled, “Yair. It’s time we wasn’t here.
When the flamin’ sheep even want t’
come in an’ have a yarn in the shade with
y’ it’s too big a risk. First thing y’ know
you’ll have the flamin’ dawgs roundin’ y’
up an’ the cook tryin’ t’ raddle y’ for a
killer. Gripes, I ain’t game t’ pull out me
tin for fear one of ’em’ll pop it on me
for a smoke.” Then the thunder rumbled,
a sweet little wind rushed under the shed
and sheep, dogs and men all smiled.
* * * *
“Zake”: In the calm stillness of a late
afternoon Ben was driving home in his
old T-model with a few stores from the
township when there came the sound of
huge roots being torn from the ground.
With that a big dry gum crashed across
the road a bare 30ft. in front of him. Ben
jammed the, brakes on hard and ducked
flat with the seat as bits of the leafless
branches bounced over the red dirt road.
When all was quiet again Ben got down
and surveyed the fallen giant. Then he
scratched his head ruefully, “Well, what
do y’ know!” he said to himself, aloud.
“The only damned tree that’s ever come
down within a few hundred yards of me
joint that I didn’t have to knock down,
an’ it’s that old lightnin’-struck one, and
the missus won’t use that in her stove
’cause she swears it won’t bum. That’s
my stiff luck all over!”
« * • •
“Salmon Gums”: I’ve just lifted and
replanted a 10-year-old peach-tree. By
excavating a fair-sized hole I was able
to leave the plant quite a lot of root-
growth, and I’ll lay the odds to a tenner
that tree will grow in its new posi-
tion with only a slight setback. I recall
several unsuccessful attempts to trans-
plant native trees. I’ve tried several, in-
cluding jarrah, jamwood and salmon-
gum, without avail. My guess
is that whereas most fruit-trees, be-
ing importations from less-prolonged
summers, don’t employ the tap-root
system and can more easily replace
the damaged roots, to the local herbage
that tap-root, thrust speedily down to the
water-table, spells life, and any damage
to it is irreparable.
He * * *
“Dronestung”: The quivering muscles
of a detached bee-sting provide the
motive p<pwer for an ingenious
mechanical arrangement of darts worked
on the ratchet system, which force the
sting deeper and help to inject the poison
from the sac at the base. It’s not un-
usual to be stung by the armament de-
tached from an injured bee, an unhappy
experience if the sting is among honey-
comb and lodges in the mouth or throat.
A fresh sting left lying flat against a soft
part of the body will cast about till the
point lodges in the skin and gradually
upend itself to drive in at the right angle.
« * • »
“Narrin”: A “Saturday Evening Post”
article claims that a diet of squirrel in
the pioneering days made the Americans
the world’s best marksmen. A lad would
be sent out with a rifle and several charges
of powder and ball. He had to return
with a similar number of squirrels or get
a flogging for wasting ammo. I find it
hard to believe that such training would
produce a good game shot. The lad
would set out, burdened with a couple of
yards of ironmongery, for the nearest
hardwood forest. Having no desire for a
hickory dusting he’d easily resist the
temptation to shoot at a squirrel that
might be visible through the greenery at
long distance —say 40yds. Intead, he’d
sneak around until he could get a sitting
shot at 30 or 40ft., and even then he’d
have to rest the cumbersome rifle on a
log to fire. A year or two of such
training would make a man into a fair
short-distance target shot, but it would
ruin him for life for work on fast, moving
targets such as a modern big-game hunter
tackles.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: It wasn’t like Teddy to
get into arguments, but he was in one
now. “It can’t be done,” he shouted.
“You could put a lean-to roof on a house
that shape, but not a,pitched roof!” A
nasty laugh came from the big chap:
“It’d be as easy as shellin’ peas.” Teddy
fairly pounced on him: “Bet you a quid
—stuff up or shut up.” “Get me a
piece of cardboard and I’ll soon prove it
to you,” Big-’un declared. Then it began
—a long rigmarole of explanation.
After three-quarters of an hour Teddy
was still unconvinced. “All right,”
pursued the expert, “I’ll give you
absolute proof.” It took over an hour’s
clever manipulation of pencil, rule and
penknife, but finally a complete miniature
roof cut out of cardboard and propped
up on matchboxes was assembled on the
table, “Satisfied, now?” crowed the
carpenter. “H’m, yair, I suppose you’re
right,” admitted Teddy, and handed over
his quid. “Bad luck,” somebody sympa-
thised as, glowing with conceit, the winner
departed. Teddy carefully picked up the
pieces of cardboard. “For six weeks,”
he said, “I’ve been tryin’ to figure out
how to cut out the roof on the place I’m
building. Then to-night I heard that
bloke skitin’ and remembered my old
man’s advice: ‘lf you want to know any-
thing don’t ask a tradesman —he wouldn’t
tell you for a tenner. Just start an argu-
ment that it can’t be done, and offer to
bet a quid.’ ”
TOM MALONE.
What could he be bringing to the Lord’s high
table,
Tom Malone, in his unkempt wedding garment?
This he brought, the ringer of his shed,
Who came, death-gutted by a spit of lead:
Shearing and swearing, shearing, swearing well,
With no wet money when the sheep were damp,
And to do well the immediate thing, life’s lamp.
No doubt he brought the grand Miss Parkers’
singing,
Who looked too high for what they would be
getting,
And so their time went past, and both died
queer, unwed...
Brought a sick ewe at lambing in the heart-
lantern light of memory;
And a child picking greenhoods in quartzland,
Steiglitz way;
The moonwalk on the water above Frogmore
Where Barwon shrugs and turns for Barrabool.
He sleeps, master of ail the castles in the sky
Where Murrumbidgee’s sandhills break
Under the marching of the ageless winds.
He missed two wars and the mad years between ;
Nor drifted down to droving through the heat
With a few poor sheep to save along the roads,
Drinking with the flies in the stolid, bush-rough
pubs,
Cadging the makings from the younger men,
To light with shaking hands the rankest smoke—
Cathedral arch of bridges for his home,
And sun-stroke age a queerness in his head
Until the children run, “Look, Swaggie’s dead!”
Oh, no, he went the ringer of his shed,
Drank with the boys and never went to bed.
Thpmas Malone at twenty-three had sense —
Remember Tom?
His gun at the fence.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


DAVIDSON & SMITH SPECIAL
%
The
Finest
Quality
Saddle
Procurable
f An exceptionally strong, well-made
Poley Saddle, all over selected rough-
out or smooth-out kip leather. Built
on specially-made solid gullet steel
plated tree, narrow waist, long flaps,
reinforced knee pads set high up on
the flap, mounted with Hin. Ring
Surcingle, Uin. best quality bevelled
and numbered stirrup leathers,- im-
proved girth and N.P. stirrup irons.
Price, £l5/15/- Complete.
'DAVIDSON & SMITH
Australia’s Largest Saddle Manufacturers
Corner Bourke and Liverpool Streets,
East Sydney. Telephone: FA 5013.
LUO> Cs / wici
FACING fl PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
TAB WENTWORTH
LU
elite
'Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Wise in the ways of Buyers and Sellers
When you market your wool clip through A.M.L.&F. you can be assured
that it will be displayed to advantage, valued wisely, and sold by an
expert alert to the mood of the market.. .an auctioneer who is known and
respected by the buyer as “an A.M.L.&F. man.” Get the best possible
price for your wool. Team up with A.M.L.&F., the organisation with
84 years of extensive experience in the service of the man on the land!
Australian, Mercantile, Land & F
inance Coy. Ltd.
{lnc. in England, 1863.)
4 Bligh Street, Sydney
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
Kill instantly with
CYAN O GAS
(Regd.)
“THE PRINCE OF
RABBIT KILLERS”
For over 20 years the leading
Babbit Fumigant
ECONOMICAL, and a CERTAIN
KILLER
m
pa
n
7%
m
m
Available from Storekeepers Everywhere
BUZACOTT - WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
’PHONE: MA6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
THE STUFF TO GIVEEM
MEGGITTS LINSEED MEAL.
Fats on the Cooper.
“Agric”: In anticipation of
the British-Dominion food-pro-
dnation scheme offering financial
assistance to increase beef pro-
duction in the Gulf country and
the far western pastoral areas of
Queensland, the notion of the
Cooper’s Creek channel country
as a cattle-fattening proposition
is again cropping up. The
Queensland Bureau of Investiga-
tion recently surveyed the area,
and in its annual report states
that after a study of flood per-
formances and the terrain qf the
whole of the Cooper system it is
satisfied that there is no practi-
cable dam site, or combination
of sites, where the flow of the
Thompson and Barcoo Rivers
could be conserved in order to
regularly flood the channel
country. The Bureau considered
smaller storages on the main
streams, but costs of construc-
tion, maintenance and operation
rendered these- projects un-
economic in view of the results
likely to be achieved.
Tire.channel country has been
experiencing a splendid season,
and cattle grazed there have
been, and still are, keeping the
Brisbane market well supplied
with fats. The Bureau considers
that the country flooded by the
Cooper reaches a maximum of
3,300,000 acres, and cattle-
men conversant with conditions
there claim that following flood-
ing a bullock would be fattened
on the feed produced by 12
acres. Many graziers have en-
visaged the establishment of
meatworks adjacent to the
channel country, but if it is not
possible to construct substantial
dams there such works are out
of the question.
The only way the Cooper
country is likely to be fully
developed is by the provision of
adequate rail communication to
enable store cattle from the N.T.
and n.-w. Queensland to be
transported without the weight
loss long droving causes.
Most of the fats now being
turned off the Cooper could have
been turned off a couple of years
ago had rail transport been
available, but with such a long
walk to railhead they have to be
held until the country right
through is safe to travel. State
prejudices, however, are likely
to prevent the construction of
any rail link which would result
in fat cattle from the Cooper
being sent to N.S.W. unless the
Federal Government, in return
for substantial financial assist-
ance, insists that the whole
matter be viewed from a broad
national viewpoint. Past jeal-
ousies prevented the construc-
tion of a rail link from Blackall
to Charleville, although it would
I we saved millions of sheep.
Mallee Wheat.
“Mr.”: With a 50-acre crop
of Quadrat, yielding 33.1 bushels
an acre, Mrs. A. Olson, of
Nbwie North (Swan Hill),
scored 95£ points out of a pos-
sible 100 in this season’s Vic-
torian Mallee wheat crop cham-
pionship. The wheat was har-
vested under the supervision of
an agricultural officer, who re-
ported that there was some rust,
but not enough to seriously re-
duce the yield. Second place
went to F. S. Hofmaier, of Hope-
vale, Rosebery, winner of many
previous competitions and this
year successful in the Beulah
district competition. Hofmaier’s
50- acres of Bencubbin averaged
29.5 bushels to the acre and
scored 92| points. Hopetoun
district winner, W. G. Chivell,
was third with Quadrat, which
stripped 26.3 bushels, earning
894- points. Runners up, T. J.
Morley, of Nullawil, and Gniel
Bros., of Walpeup, exhibited
crops of Regalia and Insignia
respectively.
Dust v. Weevils.
“8.C.”: According to C.S.I.R.
Bulletin 225 mineral dusts which
had proved effective in labora-
tory experiments were tested
under conditions more closely
approximating those of normal
storage. At Toowoomba (Q.),
where conditions favored heavy
weevil infestation, magnesite and
dolomite dusts kept the wheat
reasonably clean for 12 months
when mixed with the grain at the
rate of less than one per cent,
by weight, while untreated wheat
was virtually destroyed in seven
months. Near Sydney, where
conditions didn’t favor the
weevils so much, the dusts kept
the wheat clean for 18 months.
Other experiments showed that
a barrier of dust a foot wide
might be useful for protecting
isolated parcels of grain in
stores from a wide range of
pests likely to come from, other
goods stored near by.
Preliminary tests show the
effectiveness of D.D.T. and 666
when incorporated in dusts.
Pure 666 gave a good kill of the
lesser grain borer, Rhizopertha
dominica, even at the rate of one
part in 15,000,000 of wheat,
when applied mixed With mag-
nesite.
Rabbit Eradication.
“Curlew”: A “special report”
on rabbits has been presented to
Victoria’s Lib.-C.P. Govern-
ment by the Graziers’ Associa-
tion, which seems to believe
that the best way to destroy rab-
bits is to make reports about
them.
Anyway, special reporters de-
clare that the Lands Department
has failed to control vermin on
Crown lands, and has enforced
control on private owners in an
“ineffective and capricious man-
ner.” They go on like this:
“There is a generally negative
attitude which seems to stem
from a feeling that with the
money and labor available it is
hopeless, anyway... .There is a
failure to lay down a general
basic plan to control vermin by
concerted effort of all parties
Arising out of the above a
feeling by landowners that as
the State methods are often out
of date and correspondingly in-
effective any efforts they may
make are only a palliative, as
lack of control of vermin around
them nullifies their best efforts.
There is often a very bad feel-
ing between inspectors and
landowners on this account...,
The annual poisoning of rabbits
in February is of no value in the
control of rabbits.”
This last is partially true, for
poisoning is of little value until
there is practically no green feed
available and the rabbits are
numerous. But it is foolish to
assert that “both inspectors
and landowners have come to
regard compliance with this
order as satisfying the provisions
of the Act for the year.” Very
few people are so stupid, but
many are disinclined to roll up
their sleeves and get to work
with dogs and shovel as soon
as the ground is in order. If
inspectors insisted on that and
“Get up. Herb — it's my turn to sit in the shade.”
kept “graziers” busy at it as long
as the ground was in order and
the rabbits there, there would be
a tremendous decrease in the
rabbit pest the first year, and
their eradication would be facili-
ated.
It is claimed that “the depre-
dations of the rabbits are not
sufficiently realised,” and that
“the C.S.I.R. and others should
make a national survey to de-
termine the national 1055....
The object should be to get the
rabbit on the top of the ground
More effective fumigants
should be used and should leave
a repulsive residue to make
the burrows uninhabitable....
Priority for landholders to pur-
chase cartridges”—making rab-
bit-killing a “graziers’ ” sport.
To then practical man the
whole thing is balderdash. Ap-
parently these people have learnt
little or nothing in the past 50
years. As was pointed out (B.
17/12/’47) the skins of over
5,000,000 rabbits were sold in
Melbourne in July, marketed
by wideawake landholders and
rabbit-killers who were not
afraid to do the necessary
work.
Homestead Trees.
“Sundowner”; For planting
around homesteads in the lOin.
to 15in. rainfall belt Canary
Island pine is a hardy tree for
dry winter conditions and pro-
duces an excellent, long-keeping
timber. Among the cypresses
the candle pine will do well, but
should be raised from cuttings
to ensure trueness to type. Red
and lemon-scented gums are
suitable ; so is the hybrid flame-
tree, a cross between the kurra-
jong and the flame-tree. Lagu-
naria is a tough native with
pyramidal growth. A slow
grower, the carob is specially
suited to dry areas and its beans
are useful stock food. Another
slow grower, the olive is long-
lived and useful as a hedge.
Port Jackson fig and the Ficus
hilli are large evergreens that do
well in a dry climate ; jacaranda,
if carefully protected from frost
when young, will thrive, and
others worth trying in severe
conditions are robinias, swamp
oaks and peppers.
Of the smaller trees and shrubs
the Irish strawberry, which pro-
duces masses of edible berries, is
excellent. Double - flowering
peach and ornamental plum have
value as hedge plants, and the
cumquat is a citrus producing
tiny sweet oranges. Acacias that
will stand up to rough condi-
tions are the Queensland and
Cootamundra wattles, but both
are short-lived and only a few
should be grown. Bougainvillea
and ivy—often used as creepers
—can be trained as small trees if
grown on a frame or tree stump.
Lantana, a vigorous grower,
troublesome in Australian
tropical areas, is in the south a
useful shrub. Cassias (flori-
bundd), oleanders, laurustinus,
poinsettia, some varieties of the
tecomas and hibiscus and the
red-flowering currant, all do
well with reasonable attention.
Creepers will cover drab spots.
Banana passion fruit, golden
glory, wistaria and the dolichos
and black Kennedy for exposed
situations are particularly suit-
able. To gain maximum benefit
from available rainfall plant
where possible where there is a
run-off from hill or road. Some
people take the trouble to grade
the land and dig gutters to run
water to their trees.
New Butter-Making Process.
“Q.Z.T.”; It is really a con-
tinuous process, and the ordi-
nary churning process seems
cumbersome in comparison. By
the “Alfa” method the average
unit has a capacity of around
7001 b. per hour, but a large fac-
tory would instal more than one
unit.
The principle involved is one
of super-separation of the milk,
followed by quick chilling. The
milk, pasteurised, is separated
by two tandem-operated separa-
tors to produce a cream of
82 p.c. butterfat, equal to that
of commercial butter. The milk
passes through the first separa-
tor, which separates a cream of
around 35 p.c. butterfat, after
which the cream passes to a
hermetic separator which pro-
duces the concentrated cream.
This second separator has speci-
ally modified discs to take the
thicker cream. The separated
milk usually has a fat content
of around 0.05 p.c. The thick
cream then passes through three
cylinders each 6ft. long and Ift.
in diameter. In the first of these
the cream is reduced to 68deg.
F. and in the second to 45-50 deg.
F. It is here that the cream
changes its condition and be-
comes viscous. In the third
cylinder the cream is raised to
a temperature of 57deg. F., and
the resultant butter flows directly
into parchment-lined boxes.
This butter has a creamy
appearance and flavor, but after
about six weeks’ storage assumes
the recognised commercial butter
aroma and flavor. It is claimed
that butter made by this method
keeps much better than butter
from the ordinary churning
process. The water particles
are very small and evenly dis-
persed, and this factor, combined,
with freedom from contamina-
tion, stops bacteria breeding. In
ordinary churning the larger
water particles and the difficulty
of evenly dispersing the moisture
cause streakiness and a mottled
appearance as well as a favor-
able . breeding - ground for
bacteria.
The “Fritz” continuous pro-
cess is on different lines, and is
really a rapid-churning process.
The cream, pasteurised and
cooled to a temperature of
around 45deg. F., is run into a
cooled cylinder lOin. long and
lOin. in diameter. The cream,
which has been separated to a
40-45 p.c. butterfat, is fed into
the cylinder in such a way that
it forms a thin film of cream
over a baffle-plate. It is then
caught up in four horizontal
blades rotating at a speed, vary-
ing according to the size of the


I w ¥
■
iiiiiiiiii
V i
cold!
oU'^
Heat bounces
back off
Cane-ite walls
and ceilings
so does
Your house gets better
insulation from this i-inch Cane-ite
wall than from 16 inches of
concrete or 8 inches of brick!
★ Easy to handlel ★ Quick to erect!
Cane-ite walls and Ivory Cane-ite ceilings keep
your home cool in Summer. Cosy in Winter.
If you’re renovating, put Cane-ite right over
any unsightly wall or ceiling. Cane-ite walls
can be painted any colour or left in their natural,
suede-like buff texture. Finish each room with
Ivory Cane-ite ceilings for better light reflection.
Insulate and Decorate with
WALLS and CEILINGS
Sold by hardware stores and timber merchants
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
FLU-COLDS
Smash them quickly
with the
DoubleD
faucalufttuA fixPuut
3 way attack
Get rid of your Flu-Cold as quickly as
possible—fight 3 ways with Double
“D” Eucalyptus and drive your’ Flu-
Cold out in record time.
TAtCW
J drops of Double
“D” on sugar,
chest and back with
MW%3> Double “D.”
15 drops of Double
fJwriAi'* “d
in hot water.
This special treatment with Double “D”
quickly helps clear your head; break up
congestion: and destroy Flu-cold germs in
nose, throat and bronchial tubes. Insist
on Double “D” Eucalyptus.
Price lid. 1/7 5/-
1
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot, and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
Mill
mu
i
Oil : -
. -^:sv,
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates un-
excelled cuisine—Dining
Rooms, Grill Room,
Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together
with first-class orchestra.
BOOMS-ONEY BATES
Single Booms—
From 7/- per night
Double Booms —
From 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METROPOLE,”
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
* N
Ife
v nsS£n/.
IT MEANS more farm tractors that will soon be
available from International Harvester’s new plant
at Geelong, Australia —tractors in large quantities
to help overcome the present acute shortage and win
more food from Australia’s farmlands.
It means new farm machines and improved methods to
help conserve the vital soil and produce bigger and
better crops with less labour.
It means the large-scale manufacture in Australia of
International motor trucks in popular payload capacities
to meet transportation needs of Agriculture and Industry.
It means engines and complete power units to turn
shafts and wheels.
It means a nation-wide network of local servicing facili-
ties throughout the Commonwealth by over 600 trained
and specially equipped dealers.
Above all, the IH symbol means this: an organization
that builds long life, efficiency, economy and freedom
from toil into* its products, that each may contribute
to better living for us all.
INTERNATIONAL. HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.. (INC. IN VIC.)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. FACTORY: GEELONG
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
machine, from 1800 r.p.m. to
3000 r.p.m.
This violent churning separates
the butter granules from the
butterfat in about one and a
half seconds. The granules and
buttermilk fall into another
cylinder which contains two
worms rotating in opposite direc-
tions at about 40 r.p.m. Here the
buttermilk is taken away from
the butter, which is forced along
to a moulder, which in turn
passes it along to an automatic
packing machine. Capacity of
the machine is from a half to
one ton per hour. Moisture con-
tent depends entirely on the
skill of the operator, for fat
content and churning tempera-
tures again come into the pic-
ture. The keeping quality is
considered to be better than
that of ordinary churn butter,
but not as good as that of butter
produced by the “Alfa” method.
Swine Plague.
“Bill C.”: Swine plague is its
N.Q. name, but it is really in-
fectious pneumonia and cannot
be cured. To prevent serious
losses it is essential that it be
recognised early. This may be
difficult, since some pigs become
chronically affected without
showing noticeable signs of it.
These carriers pass it on to
healthy pigs, some of which de-
velop the disease in its acute
form.
About the only signs that a
pig j s suffering are difficult
breathing, coughing when dis-
turbed, with, perhaps, some rest-
lessness and loss of appetite. In
acut£
cases these symptoms are
more marked> and the re is a
wo bbfing and staggering gait
with much fever and perhaps
scouring . Also, t he pig’s flanks
beave noticeably during respir-
adon when these signs appear
the viqtim must be isolated a t
once ds condition tested by a
yet If pneumonia is diag-
nosed j t should be destroyed,
s i nce there is no known cure,
and odd • s tb at recover are
usuad y constitutionally ruined,
_ 3 .. .. .
„
nourishing tucker, reliable breed-
ing stock. Isolate newly-bought
stock for the first six weeks.
However, hygienic quarters and
good feed are the two main
points to watch. The germ of
pneumonia lurks always in pig-
geries, but it cannot overcome
the natural bodily resistance of
a healthy, flourishing pig.
Green-Manuring.
“Hortus”; There’s nothing
like growing a catch-crop be-
tween two crops of vegetables to
keep the soil’s plant food up to
scratch. Vetches or cow-peas
are good. Say an average yield
per acre of cow-peas is 1\ tons.
This, turned under, would add
to the soil per acre 1061 b. of
nitrogen, 221 b. of phosphoric
acid and 77flb. of potash, the
equivalent of about 4cwt. of sul-
phate of ammonia per acre.
Green-manuring is of special
value in orcharding, where the
green crop can be grown and
ploughed under between the
rows.
Watch your time for green-
manuring. There must be
warmth and moisture. A crop
ploughed under in late autumn
or winter will nitrify only
slightly. The . same applies to
ploughing under in a dry season.
In sandy soils green manure
nitrifies more rapidly than
manures like bonedust or blood
and bone and only less slowly
than sulphate of ammonia. In
stiff clay soils it nitrifies very
much more rapidly than either
sulphate or animal manures.
From actual experiments on
the farm, with vetches in one
season 2641 b. of nitrogen was
added to the soil before resowing
for the next crop.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sarina’’; Experienced fruit-
growers use Bordeaux paint to
prevent rot-producing fungi
getting into cut limbs of trees
after pruning. It is made by mix-
ing two different solutions: ( a )
lib. of burnt lime dissolved in
one quart of water, and ( b ) Boz,
of bluestone dissolved in a quart
of water: until they are
thoroughly blended. The mix-
ture is then applied to the raw
surfaces, but should oijly be
mixed and handled in a non-
metal 'container.
“Mr.”; Clovers provide a
cheap and convenient source of
nitrogen in a lawn, and if they’re
eliminated they need to be re-
placed by regular applications of
a nitrogenous fertiliser. To
keep the lawn healthy apply, in
addition to the nitrogen, an an-
nual dressing of 31b. of super-
phosphate to 100 sq. yds. If
phosphate is withheld the sward
will become thin and open, ac-
quiring a peculiar bronze color-
ation most noticeable in winter.
These dressings are recom-
mended by Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture: March,
super. 31b., nitrogen 4ylb., sul-
phate of iron \\\h. ; June, nitro-
gen 4£lb.; September, nitrogen
4£lb., sulphate of iron I^-lb.;
December, nitrogen 4|lb.
“Will C.”: Use a torch to in-
spect your car or wireless battery
at night. A lighted match is
capable of igniting fumes from
the battery, thus causing an
explosion.
“Billjim”: Milk “stone” in
milk pipes and dairy, utensils
may be removed by a 10 p.c.
solution of hydrochloric or sul-
phuric acid or plain vinegar.
Syrupy phosphoric acid (20 p.c.),
diluted at the rate of one pint
to 20 gallons of water, is also
effective. After soaking for 20-
30 minutes in such a solution
the deposit can be brushed off.
For stainless-steel apparatus sul-
phuric acid (one pint to 20 gal-
lons of water) is satisfactory if
used at atmospheric temperature
and rinsed off after 20 minutes’
soaking. Hydrochloric acid
should not be used for cleansing
stairjless steel. But the best way
is to keep all utensils washed
immediately after use.
“Big Billy”: Tests by Vic-
torian Department of Agricul-
ture at Werribee over 20 years
prove that hoary cress, which
covers many acres of arable land
in the State, may be eradicated
by starvation brought about by
frequent cultivation or by the
application of herbicides. A 6
p.c. arsenic pentoxide solution
applied at the rate of 120 gal-
lons per acre is an effective
spray. Maximum results are
obtained in hot weather. On
small areas where the, subsoil is
permeable salt applications also
give complete eradication, but
salt is not so effective where the
subsoil consists of impervious
clay.


NOVELS FOR
HOLIDAY READING
MINK COAT. A new and refreshing novel by Kathleen Norris.
9/- (post 4d.).
AT THE SIGN OF THE DOLPHIN. A perfect anthology by
Elizabeth Goudge. 14/9 (post 9d.).
PENELOPE WAITS, by Rosemary Rees.
A bright, refreshing novel set in New Zealand. 9/- (post 4d.).
THE CAPTAIN’S EADV, by D. K. Broster.
A sequel to “The Sea Without a Haven.” 9/9 (post 4d.).
RETURN TO NIGHT, by Mary Renault.
Awarded the annual Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer prize of £40,000 for
the novel of the year. 12/- (post 4d.).
THE ESSENTIAE HEMINGWAY. A compendium of the best of
Ernest Hemingway. 15/3 (post 6d.).
THIS SIDE OP INNOCENCE, by Taylor Caldwell, author of
“Dynasty of Death.” 12/6 (post 6d.).
NOVELS AND STORIES, by Anthony Trollope. 18/3 (post Bd.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.,
Booksellers and Publishers,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA 6511.
CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CINZANO CIN2ANO C/^
------
iveei and Dry
n
j3inzano, tfie world’s Best Ver-
jngutKs and the yyodd’s finest
gperitifgl
ERMOUTHS
omce /f/6
TCI
CINZANO A
ir&iar
STOP
WEARING GLASSES
Whatever your age, however long you have
worn glasses, or your eyes have troubled
you, Eye Culture can help you. Short
sight—long sight—old-age sight—turned,
tired or strained eyes—glare—headaches
—in fact, almost any eye trouble or dis-
comfort can be remedied by Eye Culture.
NO APPLIANCES, EYE DROPS
OR DRUGS.
Just a simple course of Eye Culture,
which removes congestion from the tissues
and strengthens strained, weakened eye
muscles. This means' that soon—usually
from two to six weeks —the eyes com-
mence to improve and glasses become un-
necessary as the eyes gradually regain
their lost vitality and strength.
Eye Culture is more than just eye exer-
cises—it is a treatment based on the
training of the eyes in relation to the
whole system. It is backed by over 16
years’ practice in Australia, and is based
upon commonsense laws of nature. Glasses
weaken the eyes—Eye Culture strengthens
them. Isn’t that what you want?
If you cannot call for a consultation, which
is free, send a 2Jd. stamped addressed
envelope for our booklet, “Perfect Eye-
sight Without Glasses,”' to
EYE CULTURE
No. 26 St. James Building,
109 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
Phone, MA 3167. (Established 1929.)
STAMMERERS,
STUTTERERS.
and nervous speakers
are earnestly invited to
send for particulars of
the magic alphabet
The lessons of which are
specially compiled for
Home Study.
PHILIP O’BRYEN HOARE
' M.8.1.M.5c. (London)
Consulting Specialist in
Speech and Nervousness
270 Queen St., Brisbane, Aust.
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Unusual children’s clothes and
hand-made quilts and sunsuits.”
—Suburban paper.
Prodigies specially catered for.
•b *b *b
“Some tennis players and spectators
have quaint ideas on sportsmanship.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
The slightest upset and they
play the deuce.
•b *b *b
“At 28 most boys at dances seem
to regard me as an antique.”
—Sydney “D.T:”
A fading mural.
•b *b *b
“A permanent wave is an ordeal
for a woman.” — “Daily Telegraph.”
But one she cheerfully under-
goes every six months.
•b *b *b
Example.
A twenty-one letter word is fine
For crowding rivals from a line.
And thus conclusively to stress
Its disproportionableness.
Brian Bureau.
•b *b 4*
“Nottingham (Eng.) has a school
where ugly girls learn to glamorise
themselves.”
Here the dailies do it for
them.
•b *b *b
“Crouching low and clutching the
long knife, Roger waited to stab the
ghost the moment it appeared.”
—Short story.
He was determined to stick at
nothing.
•b *b *b
“The serpent can still get around
jfive.”— “New Idea.”
Apparently it has' her measure.
“Big Hollywood film studios em-
ploy staff to make sure their films
contain inaccuracies.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun:”
A superfluous precaution,
surely.
4* 4* 4*
Deadly Snag.
“A bulldog snatched Miss Boochin’s
hat. Psychology///% sausage
blamed Hetr.” —“Digest
“The defence pleads ‘Not
Guilty,’ as charged, your
Honor. Actually, our case rests
on the testimony of Crown wit-
nesses, which I respectfully re-
capitulate : —
“Not only did this savage animal
terrify the plaintiff by taking her hat.
On that same morning he indulged
in a veritable orgy of crime. At 9
a.rn. he stole some half sausages from
the premises of Mr. Silver Side, a
butcher, who gave chase and retrieved
them. Later the animal wilfully terri-
fied a small boy and stole from him
a balloon. When taken into custody
he was in the act of biting a
dachshund.
“This grand old bulldog, your
Honor, has been termed a
‘savage animal.’ Look at him —
sobbing pitifully in the dock!
“His case is really psycho-
logical. Were he human he
could be classed as a dipso-
maniac who favors not alcohol,
but sausages, an insatiable
appetite which is not his
fault. It developed in his
puppyhood, and now, with
years, the mania has over-
come his judgment. Things
appear to him as sausage
that are really not, and what
has been termed his ‘orgy’
occurred only when he was
mentally frustrated at hav-
ing his chosen pabulum re-
moved by force. There fol-
lowed an outburst by the
defendant on things which
he took, in his troubled
mind, to be sausage—the
small boy’s balloon; the
dachshund, and finally, your
Honor, ‘Exhibit A’—-the
plaintiff’s hat. That, your
Honor, is the case for the de-
fence.”
“Let me see ‘Exhibit A,’ Miss
Boochin’s hat,” his Honor said.
“Great Scot! I rule that there
is no case to go to the jury.
Gentlemen of the jury, you are
discharged.”
Flip.
•b *b *b
“What is the cause of industrial
unrest?” — “S.M.H. V
Some questions merely make us
weary
When coming from a dunder-
head,
But Granny “Herald’s” senseless
query
Can only make a man see Red !
Bert.
Science to the Rescue.
“Beerometer-users won’t put up
with half-measures.”
—Hobart “Mercury.”
I had been lucky and bought
my meter early. After leaving a
collar on my schooner which
would have fitted Fred Atkins’,
the barmaid prepared to dive on
my coin. I stopped her with an
upraised hand.
The meter pointed out that
she was about to sting me for a
halfpenny too much. Quivering
with shame, she topped my issue
off and waddled away to charge
her jugs. Between gurgles I
thought of the future prospects
of this' little device.
Gone the days when, tripping
over their tongues, and with
elbows already half bent, im-
bibers charge the counter and
try to swallow the first wet-
looking object (frequently a fel-
low-drinker) that meets their
eyes. Instead, they will calmly
saunter up to the bar and pro-
“Stop jumping on your father's mattress !”
duce their beerometers. As well
as returning for further develop-
ment all liquor not reaching the
proper standard of height, they
will have a chance to study just
what they are consuming.
Discount can then be claimed
for chips of glass, large pieces
of pitch belted loose in the keg,
and, in outback parts, for
witchety grubs which have
wandered into the pot in mistake
for a willow-tree.
Niloc.
, *b *b *b
Is there any hope for fools?”
— “S.M.H.” ■
Well, Chifley might create a
few more Cabinet posts.
•b *b ■b
“Small merry-go-round for sale,
cheap, owing to ill-health.”
— “S.M.H.”
The paint was blistered, the
motor was coughing badly, and
the gears had lost half their
teeth.
“In Palermo (Sicily) street cleaners
who were denied a wage boost toured
the town redistributing the garbage
they had collected the day before.”
It was little consolation to the
citizens to know they were
getting their own back.
•b *b *b
“A group of businessmen have
made the first attempt to commercial-
ise man-made weather.”
There’ll probably be some
watered stock.
•b *b *b
“Wanted half , cottage or small
flatette, suit two unfurn.”
-—Suburban paper.
Just a plain couple.
•b *b *b
“It is not an easy matter to be a
stepmother. ’ ’ —“ Woman.”
You’ve simply got to land n
widower with at least one child.
Oh, Baby!
“Legislation is likely to provide for
loans of about £l5O to newly-married
couples. They will be repayable only
by couples who produce fewer than
three children.”
This happy news for married
pairs
Will fill the stork with dire
foreboding
Unless he wins a rise in fares
To compensate for extra
loading.
Bert.
Delayed Action.
“A Boston (U.S.) man, aged 85,
reprimanded his wife, 83, with a
hatchet when she objected to his
attentions to a younger woman, 80.”
— “Time.”
By Pilgrim Fathers grounded in
An adamantine piety
Entailing abstinence from sin,
Bostonians contrived to win
A reputation for propriety.
This specimen, compelled to
shun
All minor yjees by repressions
Imposed from childhood on his
fun.
Postpones until the second one
His crop of youthful indiscre-
tions.
You’d think, though, for his
final spree
She might have graciously
relaxed her
Insistence on fidelity —
Though she refused her sanction,
he
Could claim at least that he
had axed her.
P. M. LUSK.
Stumped for an Answer.
“A 64-year-old petitioner alleged
that his wife was in the habit of
hiding his wooden leg and then sitting
on his bed and scolding him.”
In silence he lay on his bed —
Ah, pity his awful dilemma! —
As invective was poured on his
head
From sunset around to ack
emma.
But what made his torment so
bad
And caused him retort to
abandon, *
Was the knowledge that, though
hopping mad.
He hadn’t a leg left to stand on.
D. H. E.
Harebrained.
“Strayed from Parwan, dark bay
delivery hare, heavy mane and tail.
Scar on shin of off-hind leg. Reward.”
—Bacchus Marsh (Vic.) “Express.”
As a cub reporter on the “Ex-
press,” I think I am in as good
a position as anyone to give the
facts about this strange animal.
The editor, knowing I was
hogging to get my first “scoop,”
sent me to interview old Sam.
Sam had lived so long in the
Marsh that some people thought
he should have been water-
logged, but if he was logged at
all it was certainly never with
water. He proved to be so dry,
in fact, that it took half my
week’s pay to irrigate him into
the fight condition for confi-
dences apd reminiscences.
Sam had, I was thrilled to
learn, known the dark-bay de-
livery hare since, as he said, he
was foaled in the long grass in
one of the outlying paddocks.
I’ll let Sam tell the story as he
told it to me in the bar.
“Yair, son, he was a wonder,
that bay. They expected him
to be a skewbald, for his mother
was an albino —one o’ the fastest
and trickiest ever seen in a
plumpton, I’m told. You’ll see
her name in the studbook —Doe,
it was, so they named the young
hare Ray, sorta goin’ up the
scale. An’ could that young
feller pigroot! ’Course, he got
that from his. sire, a grand buck
in his day. He started de-
velopin’ a queer habit, though,
for a bay—instead o’ whinnyin’
when he was alarmed he’d
thump his hind foot on the
ground.
“Now, light-bay hares are
pretty common round Bacchus
Marsh, son, but dark bays have
greater intelligence, so I suggests
to Tommo, who run the post-
office store in them days when
Ray was a young feller, to use
him on light delivery work.
“I took his trainin’ in hand
meself. He didn’t take to the
bit too good at first, but the way
I got him to prop an’ swerve
whenever he sighted a dog spoke
volumes for me patience. After
a few hours each day I’d curry-
comb him down, an’ the grate-
ful look he’d give me as I re-
leased his bellyband’d touch
your heart, son.
“That bay hare was real
proud of the brand I put on his
near-side wither, but one thing
he hated, an’ that was when I’d
tie a red rag round his neck to
keep the bot-flies off him. His
fur’d come up like a dog’s
hackles. He was the only bay
I ever struck, though, that didn’t
flatten his ears when he got wild.
“Well, son, his mane was so
long it was pullin’ his speed up,
an’ you should ha’ seen the look
o’ reproach that hare give me
when I put it up in bobby-pins
—it was pathetic ; still, I did it
for his own good. Had trouble
with his long flowin’ tail, too,
’cause when he’d prop sudden
his tail’d fly over his head an’
sorta blind him.
“In them days, son, Tommo
had the post-office agency, and
we put Ray on deliverin’ mail.
Had to knock that off after a
bit, for shpare me daysh, that
bay hare wash sho fast he wash
deliverin’ telegrams' before they
wash shent. Yair, shon, I looked
after him like a trained nursh
—ev’ry Shunday mornin’ I’d
shpend prunin’ the corns off hish
fetlocksh, an’ ev’ry day I’d scrub
hisfl two buck teeth mornin’ an’
night. Li’l cow useter put shand
in me eyesh when he’d shake
hish fur after enjoyin’ a good
roll.
“Shrewd cuss he wash, too.
One day he had to deliver
shome Shtilton cheese to a cush-
tomer. He carried it shtrapped
to hish back. I shee him amblin’
along unconshemed ash a grey-
hound tearsh after him. The
dog opens hish gob expectin’
hish tombstones to close on
warm fur, but he bowls over
ash if he’s been given anash
anashthetic —which he has. Ray
amblesh on again, knowin’ he’sh
qui’ shafe.
“I’ll tell y’, shon, how the bay
come to get that shear on his
hind leg. Y’ shee, one Chrish-
mash we shent him to deliver a
bo’l o’ plonk. Him bobbin’ up
an’ down ash he ran mus’ve
looshened cork an it shpilt over
hish head,, so he keeps lickin’ it
off. He opensh gate of housh
an’ shees a big bull-terrier. That
delivery hare getsh fightin’ mad
at thought of all dogs he’sh had
to scoot from, sho he turns an’
lesh fly with hind legsh. Y’
know, shon, bull-terrier’s got
head hard ash butter-box an’
Ray bushts leg open. He’d have
kicked that dog to death if hish
owner hadn’t rescued him —hie
—in time.
“Ash he got older that bay
hare sheemed to be alwaysh
losin’ hish shoes, an’ it puzzled
ush till one day I found him
pullin’ the nails out to pick hish
teeth with.
“Wha’ made him shtray?
Well, a bloke come by yesh’day
with a few does, goin’ to a
coursin’ meetin’, an’ Ray seen
’em. If that wouldn’t make even
an old bay deliv’ry hare shtray,
I ask y’, shon, what —hie—
would?”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Chifley’s Unpaid Clerks
Smith dropped in the other day to see
whether I’d “fix the taxation” for a man
he was paying off. For my own enligh-
tenment I clocked the procedure. In the
post office it took ten minutes for Smith to
fill in the necessary form to have a Tax
Stamp Book issued and for me to issue it
with the relative instructions. They
seemed pretty complicated to Smith, so
he agreed to drop round that night so
that I could “fix” it for him.
His employee had worked for seven
weeks, and had a wife and one child. Ex-
emption forms were filled in and re-
corded. Fourteen entries of gross salary
were made, with monthly totals. Fourteen
entries of deductable tax were then re-
corded. Tax stamps were requisitioned
and sold, split and stuck on. The em-
ployee signed where they told him to
sign, and his employer did the same.
The sheet was ripped in half, and the
employee took it with some veiled, un-
printable remarks. I’m pretty slippery on
forms and figures, but the whole deal, in-
cluding the initial ten minutes in the
office, took half an hour.
Smith’s a good cobber of mine, so I
didn’t charge him for clerical services,
but I multiplied his case by thousands
and came to the conclusion that Mr.
Chifley has quite a staff of unpaid clerks
working for him all over Australia.
Up in Torres Strait I handled the pay-
roll for a moderate-sized trading com-
pany. Taxation and wages (we employed
fewer than 10 “permanents,” but quite a
tribe of “Ward’s Wards” as “casuals,” and
a better term never described ’em) used
up a day and a half a fortnight. To me
my time was worth 30 bob a day—ls
pounds a year in wages given free to
Chifley and Co.
Another friend of mine has a deeper
grouch. He has spent all his life build-
ing up a first-class business in one of the
northern cities. He’s a qualified account-
ant, but has reached the age when he
should be strolling about the store keep-
ing a practised and experienced eye on
things—and also on his blood-pressure.
Does he? His whole time is taken up
with pay-roll and taxation matters, plus
costing and price-fixing. That man’s time
in any business would be worth £l5-20
a week, but again he’s just one of
Chifley’s unpaid clerks.
One can well realise why Mr. Chifley
won’t go to the public right now. It’s not
lack of intestinal fortitude —it’s just natu-
ral reluctance to quit before he has to.
—Video (Q.).
Unimagined Waste
Cables from London report that tens
of thousands of women’s hats are likely
to be burned because price-control has
made their sale unprofitable. If that
mountain of millinery were heaped in
Trafalgar-square and set alight, the result-
ing bonfire would be a practical object-
lesson in political economy. It would
move the women of London more than
eloquence, and impress even on the men
that reducing “artistic creations” to
smoke, dust and ashes as a sacrifice to
socialism is bad business for the nation
and the individual.
In Australia thousands of tons of fruit
and vegetables were allowed to rot far
from the madding crowd. If they had
been dumped in a city street, under the
noses of the people, they would have
raised a real controversy.
A million pounds in cold print is a
mere abstraction to the average citizen,
but a smouldering heap of hats or a
mouldering mass of food would be con-
crete proof that there is something rotten
in State methods of management.—
Waste (S.A.).
Wooing the Middle-Classes
Mr. Herbert Morrison’s broadcast on
“The Government, the Opposition and
the Nation” might have been intended
for a carefully picked gathering of septua-
genarian socialists, so far did it fail to
give a considered and impartial picture.
To illustrate what he called “bogey-man
electioneering” of the Conservatives, Mr.
Morrison quoted the results of two by-
elections which Labor won. There were,
in fact, four by-elections. Two were
won by Conservatives with very much
increased majorities, and none of the four
showed any increased confidence in the
Government.
Mr. Morrison slated the Opposition
with what Lord Woolton called “twisted
quarter-truths”; warned his opponents
against “introducing the accents of acute
class-war into our democracy.” Speak-
ing later in the House, Mr. Eden said it
was a case of “the devil rebuking sin.”
Referring to the lower standard of
living that they had had to aceept, Mr.
Morrison said that he knew the middle-
classes had had a bad time. But “nearly
all of them understood the reason and
accepted the situation with a good public-
spirited grace.” These soft words are
hardly likely to have fallen appealingly on
middle-class ears, for they have suffered
much from socialist class-war. It is they
who have been described as “not worth
a tinker’s cuss” and who “don’t matter
two hoots.”
The high standard of living once en-
joyed, about the lowering of which Mr.
Morrison professed to be so concerned,
was due neither to privilege nor to the
favor of one political party. It was
achieved by individual and conscientious
“Stand clear, beautiful —I'm going to land!”
work. And if middle-class ambition
sought a greater family income and a still-
higher standard of living, harder work
was the means not strike - making
machinery. Herbert Holman
(London).
One Man One Job?
So “W.P.T.” (B. 24/12/ ’47) wants the
whip cracked across the back of any
unionist daring to use his spare time
working. The new commandment is to
be “Forty hours only shall thou work;
after which thou shalt spinebash, booze
or go to the dogs.”
To my mind it is evidence of the in-
herent soundness of our national char-
acter that so many unionists are snowing
enough guts to seek other jobs in their
now too-abundant leisure. These men
have self-respect; they are not idlers;
they have grasped the truism, “Work, or
go without.”
Within a quarter of a mile of me three
houses are being built in the evenings
and at week-ends —three houses shortly
to be occupied by wage-earners’ families,
at present pigging it in inadequate rented
rooms, and doomed to continue so doing
indefinitely if they had to wait for houses
to be built strictly on the 40-hour basis.
One-man-one-job is a* legitimate means
of rationing work, when there is not
enough work to go round. The whole
world today is desperately short of both
goods and labor, and there never was a
moment less fit for trying to prevent an
honest toiler from toiling.— Kell
(N.S.W.).
Housing Moves in. Melbourne
Victorian Premier Hollway said the
other day that additional research would
help materially to overcome the short-
age of materials for housing. Among-the
things he mentioned were “stabilised
earth,” a material which has been de-
veloped in Great Britain, and a method
of making bricks by the simple mixture
of certain soils with limited quantities of
cement.
There is no need for additional re-
search. and Mr. Hollway need go no
further than his *wn State to see houses
which have been built of bricks made
from the local earth and clay. I could
give him the names of a dozen or more
people who have had years of practical
experience of the method, and who have
made thousands of the bricks and built
fine dwellings with them. Moreover, no
cement whatever was used in the con-
struction, even the laying being done with
an earth and cow-dung mortar.
Some of these houses have been up
for at least 12 years and there are no
signs of cracking, sinking or other evi-
dences of deterioration. All the material
for the walls came out of the excavations
for the foundations, and no demands were
made on the shrinking pool of housing
materials except for roofing timber and
a few odd items.
Another important consideration is that
these houses were built, under the direc-
tion of an architect, with unskilled labor.
The method is as old as Julius Caesar, and
some of the buildings erected by the
ancient Romans are still standing, as
are similar houses built by early settlers
in Victoria, some in Mr. Hollway’s own
electorate. Sir Edward Lutyens, the dis-
tinguished English architect who, if he
had not died, was to have had the job of
rebuilding London, revived the method
20 years ago in England and built hand-
some country houses with it. If the Vic-
torian Premier cares to see a practical
demonstration I.would be happy to supply
it.— Bumpkin (Vic.).
“Work”
When “Hist” (B. 10/12/’47) talks of
the Australian “Labor” attitude to work,
I recall Kipling’s conception of it:
And none but the Master shall praise us,
and none but the Master shall blame;
And no one shall work for money, and
no one shall work for fame,
But each for the joy of working
Truth in poetry! If we do not fulfil
our obligation to work we are betraying
the very condition of our existence. We
are traitors to society.
A society can flourish only by the co-
operation of its members. The selfish
ambitions of Australian trade-unions
today break down all sense of co-opera-
tion. Unions never will display their so
called “united front” if they are all the
time trying to beat the boss. The crafts-
man of the last century, with his ideals of
good workmanship, was, despite his rela-
tively low wages (though they had a high
purchasing power), a much happier man
than today’s “worker.” Waddlin’
Willie (Vic.).
“Hist,” worthy man, cannot under-
stand- why so many people fall for the
“less work” bait. The answer is that
most of us do not understand the mean-
ing of the word work. Extra time away
from the factory or office is generally
used in working, but we don’t realise it.
Digging the garden, painting the house,
fishing, rabbiting or doing a job in the
home workshop are all work, but because
we do it for ourselves we call it relaxa-
tion, a hobby or some other euphemism.
In that light the widespread wish for
shorter hours becomes a strong argu-
ment for private enterprise.— Mullum
(N.S.W.).
“Hist” would be surprised if he knew
the number of victims of our civilisation
who would be glad to go back to the
simple way of life —“squalor” isn’t neces-
sary. Take the executive heads of large
concerns, or even the humble wage-plug.
Most of them admit that they’ve “had”
it, and anyone who reads can find ample
evidence of what a harassing and
health-wrecking thing it is to try to run
even a small business today.
I know personally the general manager
of a big company whose great ambi-
tion is to get away from it all to a hut
in the mountains where, dressed in a
pair of shorts and with skin burned
brown, he tries to forget the other side
of his life. Others who joined their con-
cerns as boys from the country aiming
to be general managers now have the
idea in reverse, their ambition being to
get done with it all and back to the way
of life which they left.
Week-end shacks, boats, camps and
caravans are all on the increase, particu-
larly in that home of big business the
U.S.A., and show that the swing is defi-
nitely setting in and away from all those
very complications and gadgets whiqh
“H,” finds so attractive. It would be
strange indeed if old Mother Nature did
not arrange for the cycle to complete
itself. — Nugget (Vic.).
Traffic Deaths
During 18 years in a general medical
practice I have seen a depressing num-
ber of serious traffic-accident cases. Ad-
missions to hospitals are huge, and are
increasing in’ alarming proportions. They
constitute a grave problem to hospital
arrangements.
Most of the fatal and near-fatal cases
on my record were motor-cyclists with,
in 90 p.c. of instances, head injuries
which use of a proper protecting helmet
would have averted. Considering how we
are over-regulated by Government con-
trol in less important matters, it seems
feasible that motor-cyclists should be
controlled to the extent of having to
wear “crash” helmets, not only for their
own sakes but to save economic loss
to society. Britain has set an example
in this matter, her action being based on
the work of a famous Australian head
surgeon, Professor H. Cairns.
A further group of accidents, includ-
ing air, could be eliminated by forbid-
ding the use of red light for any purpose
except official and warning or danger
lights. In the third year of “peace” we
are still restricted by all sorts of war-
emergency regulations, yet the control
over the indiscriminate use of lights,
especially red, has long been waived.
When the blackout was lifted there was
a unique opportunity to retain con-
trol of the use of red and to avoid the
present conditions where red danger
lights fade into insignificance in the blaze
of other reds.
These two simple methods could save
the lives and limbs of many young Aus-
tralians and would save a terrific strain
on hospital accommodation and staffs. —
Dr. T. (W.A.).
—— 6..
Root of the Matter
A strike by 80 carpenters of the Mari-
time Services Board when a worker re-
fused to sign a union membership card
because his convictions do not allow him
to owe allegiance to any such organisa-
tion savors strongly of religious persecu-
tion. The Constitution provides for
religious freedom, but the law enforces
compulsory unionism, a situation preg-
nant with possibilities. It provides a hint
of the dangers of compulsion of this sort,
and is a living example of the stupid
situations which arise when the Govern-
ment is on the side of industrial lawless-
ness.—N. N. (N.S.W.).
An American told me that what
Australia needs is not more Hume dams
but hundreds of thousands of little
masonry or sod dams. In that way it is
possible to make our dry rivers run, or
at least walk —there are many, even on
the coast, that run only in floodtimes.
During their depression the Americans
used the Civilian Construction Corps to
build millions of these little dams on the
headwaters of rivers, and they are quite
satisfied with their investment. Water
thus trapped is used both for irrigation
and for stock-watering in places where
normally water would not remain for
more than an hour or two. The cost-is
low. Most of the necessary materials can
be found on the spot, and all that is
needed is labor. Even at £5O a small
dam in the right place would pay for
itself in a year— Telus (N.S.W.).
“Mug’s” harangue against lotteries (B.
10/12/’47) isn’t very logical. If specu-
lating is to be outlawed then no business
of any description could be carried on.
A lottery is a harmless amusement that
provides interest and excitement in many
otherwise dreary lives. That excesses
may occur, and that confirmed gamblers
may stake more than they can afford to
lose, are no reasons' why the moderate
gambler, any more than the moderate
drinker, should be penalised. A “bob-in”
sweep hurts nobody, and even though
their hopes are dashed, toilers get a
kick out of it. Gambling is inherent in
human nature. Men will bet, if only on
the rising of the sun. —A. D. (S.A.).


“THE UNIT OF ENERGY
yy
ma
> BATTERIES
REIGN SUPREME
■Tjm
KK --y ; ■{.
1 ,J~
•'•■V/”,’ .> t •'*•
mm m h
: r.., ,
+ V- L-.L' v; - •’
’!iy -i\ •:
SSESSS
mt
l-M-i
mmm
~ .o. fc*&
i! tv • . {■■;
3 ■ ,t' ijlj.ijf f; f> -• i“ ■•' *- • ■
1+ ~ i -a f/.i.' .
S + W V-. 1 ! • *1 !Ur <
srr^
i
lsyl
mm
m
l:S;
11*
H
ttSrjt:.
Riflftlli
i-.?j
m i
m
m
m
SSi-'.;!-.!
v-‘t'* • ,'-‘4 . ii V- V
z:ym
m.\y
ikjCy&te
. MM
o&
*•*
mm
"at
iiipiSi»
i , m
~l , v V-
:. ■ ■:. i: * :■::: • ■ iv:;'v:vk
. -■••••.•: - K: -~:
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
* —FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
FOR
15th CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radiola for
17 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR. TRUCK, TRACTOR,
RADIO, LAUNCH,
HOME LIGHTING.
ELECTRIC FENCER, ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W. :
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE,
Victoria :
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South A ustralia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
Manufactured by*
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD.,
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E.I.
New Caledonia :
HAGEN FRERES, NOUMEA.
Fiji :
ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO.,
SUVA.
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA 6188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: B 6565, B 4448
