

EXTRA
A PRODUCT OF THE
ẁ
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
*The Bulletin/* VoL 70 —-No. 3619
Wednesday, June 22, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post &s a Newspaper.
Seppelts
r\ROGHEDA, in Irish “Droichead
Atha,” meaning Bridge of the Ford,
is situated on the north bank of the
River Boyne, some 30 miles from Dub-
lin, which here divides the Counties of
Meath and Louth.
This stately town with its great bridges
has an ancient history, for it was the
stronghold of the Danish marauder
Turgesius, who captured it in 911. It
was an important bridgehead of the
Anglo-Normans of the Pale, a district
around Dublin over which English law
extended in the thirteenth century. The
area of the Pale varied according to the
land which the Normans were able to
hold against the Irish. Until the reign
of Henry VIII (1509-1547) it consisted
of the country around Dublin; includ-
ing most of Louth and Meath, Kildare
and the districts lying beneath the Wick-
low mountains to the north and east. In
the Magdalen Monastery at Drogheda
in 1395 the four Irish princes submitted
to Richard 11.
Of the numerous Parliaments held at
Drogheda the most notable was that of
1494, which passed the detested Poynings
Law, enacting that no future law passed
by the Irish Parliament would be valid
unless ratified by the English Privy
Council.
Drogheda suffered two memorable
sieges, that of 1641 and that of 1649,
when Oliver Cromwell stormed the town
with three thousand men. The massacre
that followed is among the blackest stains
of Cromwell’s reputation in Ireland, for
2000 of the defenders were put to the
sword and most of those remaining were
transported to Barbados. The town was
held in 1689 by Lord Iveagh for James
11, but it surrendered on the day follow-
ing the Battle of the Boyne.
Between the river and the Westgate
are the ruins of the Abbey of St. Mary,
consisting of a central tower and the
arches, shown in this picture, which span
the narrow Abbey Lane. The ruins are
those of an Austin friary dating from
the time of Edward I (1272-1307),
reputed to have been built on the site
of a foundation of St. Patrick, the
temporary residence of St. Columba in
the sixth century.
(Photo Courtesy Irish Tourist Assn., Inc.)
UNDER ANCIENT ST. MARY'S ARCHES ST. COLUMBA'S GHOST MAY WALK


ẃ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
8.8. 249
AGE.
The Red Page
THE ROOSEVELT LETTERS.
It is hard to believe, after Churchill’s
memoirs and the diaries of Ciano and
Goebbels, that The Roosevelt Letters
(Harrap) .could be vapid, commonplace
and almost totally devoid of interest; but
such is the case. The book is incredibly
empty.
The fault is not the late President’s
but of those responsible for this pre-
tentious and unnecessary publication.
The volume contains all the letters
Roosevelt wrote to his parents from the
age of five until his graduation at Har-
vard at 22, the correspondence having
been preserved by his mother. The col-
lection is edited by Elliott Roosevelt and
has a foreword by Eleanor Roosevelt. It
is to be followed by two more volumes,
one presenting Roosevelt’s letters from
1905 to 1928 and the other covering the
remaining years until his death in 1945.
It is possible to pick up a few crumbs
of biographical interest from the present
volume. It is mildly amusing, for in-
stance, to learn that Roosevelt was a per-
fectly normal small boy who had “battles
with the [toy] soldiers evry day. and they
are so nice,” and that he robbed birds’
nests (taking only one egg) and took a
proper interest in fishing;
My dear mamma
I went fishing yesterday after noon with
papa and we caught a dozen of minnows
we left them on the bank papa told me it
would frighten the fish to put them in the
pond how is dear grandpapa I hope he
is better dear mamma I send you a kiss
your loving son
Franklim
Again, it is mildly amusing to inspect
the President at Groton, taking the nor-
mal schoolboy’s impassioned interest in
food and football, proud of his prowess
in foreign languages and having high
jinks in the classroom;
Some musical gentlemen in the far end
of the room had a whistling concert, while
I amused myself by singing Yankee Doodle
in a high falsetto key. Old Coolidge made
the whole form stand up. That did not
do much good & we all sat down again
& the 3rd Form stood up. Then paper &
ink & nutshells flew thick & fast, and
the old man got perfectly wild. He called
up the wrong boys & for ten minutes he
yelled at a boy who was really not in the
room, while he really wanted me, but the
end of the period came just in time to save
me from a large number of Black-marks.
But President Roosevelt did not often
throw nutshells at old Coolidge, alas;
or, if he did, he didn’t tell his mother
about it. The school letters, which form
the bulk of the book, are a most tedious
catalogue of mumps, measles, Groton’s
victories at sport and Roosevelt’s steady
but undistinguished progress with his
studies. Beyond a paragraph of praise
for A Christmas Carol, which was read
aloud to the boys every year by
Groton’s Mr. Peabody, they show no
interest in culture and only in a few
moments of excitement , about the
Spanish-American War and an inquiry
about the murder of the Empress of
Austria can one see anything to dis-
tinguish the future President from any
other likeable lad.
The letters from Harvard, including a
few that deal with his engagement to
Eleanor Roosevelt, are of no interest
whatsoever; the editorials he wrote for
the Harvard magazine—“ Every man at
Harvard who takes any interest in
athletics realises that the football team, in
order to be successful, has a peculiarly
hard task before it”- —are the usual
stilted productions of adolescence ; and,
except for one lightly satirical sketch of
the English nobility at a garden-party,
his letters from abroad —possibly con-
cealing a certain amount of youthful
wildness—are really amazingly trivial.
The volume is embellished with dozens
of facsimile reproductions of the letters
and of Roosevelt’s juvenile drawings of
ships and houses, not one of which was
worth printing.
The truth is, no doubt, that the
paralysis which came upon Roosevelt
after the period of this book was,
literally, a stroke of destiny which
deepened his whole nature. The picture
of his complete ordinariness before the
paralysis was undoubtedly worth setting
on record, but it should have been done
simply by printing three or four of these
letters along with the infinitely more in-
tefesting .ones which, it is to be hoped,
will come later.
Admitting that “a number of his let-
ters home throw little additional light
upon the development of his character,”
Elliott Roosevelt excuses the collection
on the grounds that it “renders a service
to historians.” If that is the case there
seems to be no good reason for offering
the book to the public. And the his-
torians would have been equally well
served if the Roosevelt family had de-
posited these letters in some American
equivalent of the Mitchell Library.
Dear Diary.
Of the many who go back with pleasure
to the Critical Essays of Matthew Arnold,
few or none would say that they can
adopt his views on life or even, completely,
on literature ; they return to him for the
malicious wit which underlies his profes-
sions of sweetness and light, for his pene-
trating and precise insight into literature
in its great moments, and for the pro-
found judgment which enabled him, in
many ways so representative of the Vic-
torian Age, to haul out The Beggars'
Cantata and say that there, in that low-
life choir, was Burns at his best.
For such contemporaries the essays on
Maurice de Guerin and his sister Eugenie
are an irritating blemish on a book which
includes those two exciting performances,
“The Function of Criticism at the Present
Time” and “The Literary Influence of
Academies,” and the essays on Heine and
Theocritus. Arnold in those two essays
appeals to us least. But in those essays
Matthew Arnold was probably most at
home ; the son of Arnold of Rugby, feel-
ing to the full the Literary Influence of
the English Public School. Maurice de
Guerin had written a prose-poem about
a centaur which Arnold could translate:
O Melampus, thou who wouldst know
the life of the Centaurs, wherefore have the
gods willed that thy steps should lead thee
to me, the oldest and most forlorn of them
all?
The atmosphere of the classroom is
about it; the young French poet reminds
him of Rugby and the classics and boys
dealing out involved Latin and Greek
constructions into cadenced English
prose. And not only was De Guerin a
modem classicist, but also he was virtu-
ous ; he was not like the “unmanly”
Keats or that “beautiful and ineffectual
angel” [“What a set! ”] Shelley ; he lived
a beautiful life, first of pious inquiry,
then of poetic endeavor, kept a diary,
wrote letters, married happily and died
young.
Moreover, he had a sister, Eugenie ; she
also kept a diary; she lived for her
brother; she preserved for him in her
diary the daily life of their poor but
aristocratic family at the chateau of Le
Cayla, in Languedoc ; and the writings of
this “French Catholic in Languedoc” con-
trasted with the writings of Miss Emma
Tatham, an “English Protestant at Mar-
gate ; Margate, that brick-and-mortar
image of English Protestantism, represent-
ing all its prose, all its uncomeliness,”
demonstrated “an unlikeness” —“the sig-
nal want of grace and charm in English
Protestantism’s setting of its religious
life.”
Classicism, virtue, charm and elegance
—Arnold went in off the deep end; “Both
brother and sister had genius” ; and is to
be found arguing with Sainte-Beuve the
delicate question whether the sister had
more genius than the brother.
And now, in The Idol and the Shrine,
“the story of Maurice de Guerin together
with translated extracts from the Journal
of Eugenie de Guerin,” by Naomi Royde-
Smith (Hollis and Carter), comes what
this vulgar age might describe as the pay-
off.
On leaving the seminary of the dis-
credited Abbe de Lamennais, young De
Guerin went to Paris to study law and
be a journalist. There he was introduced
to a life of “moderate dissipation” by a
former schoolfriend, Jules Barbey
d’Aurevilly, and later conducted a love
affair with a young married woman, the
Baronne Henriette Marie de Maistre.
Near to the consumption which finally
killed him, brought on by late nights,
studying law and being in love —and not
only with Henriette—he went for a holi-
day to the De Maistre chateau, and sat
up in bed until midnight night after night
writing secret love-letters to his hostess,
one of those women who will say neither
yea nor nay. And then he was married,
by conspiracy, against his will, for his own
good and to get him out of danger with
Henriette to a beautiful and rich young
Creole ; they went to live with her aunt;
he could act to his wife, Caroline, only
as a brother; and they were both pro-
foundly unhappy.
And, as seen from our present-day
point of view, and in the light of later dis-
closures, his sister was using her ideals
to hide her selfish love for her brother
from herself and from the world ; she was
jealous of his wife; and the writings
which said what happened when she went
to see them at Paris and most of the
diaries which present anything other than
a picture of family amity and loving-kind-
ness have been lost, destroyed or sup-
pressed.
So it has all faded a little: the classi-
cal and elegant prose-poem which began
it all is drowned in the ribald lamenta-
tions of Baudelaire, Laforgue and Cor-
biere, or superseded by the stranger,
newer, less intelligible but more alive
classicism of Mallarme and Valery ; the
virtuous young man burning with the
hard and gemlike flame was not quite so
virtuous ; the loving sister was more lov-
ing than sisterly-—what would Matthew
Arnold think of all this? Well, as to
Eugenie:
Caro, dear little thing, has written; but
she tells me nothing I want to know: she
cannot write intimately with the details
needed for real news as Monsieur d’Aure-
villy writes.,. .Caro’s letter has upset me —
she says you were tpo weak to put your
shoes on when you tried to get up. What
a bad sign, and how I wish your friend
would write again and let me know how
you really are. He describes everything so
well I can almost see the blood in your
veins. He is the kind of friend who
understands what I need to be told.
Or after her brother’s death: —-
No, my darling, death shall not divide
us ; it cannot take you out of my thoughts;
death separates bodies only; the soul has
left earth for Heaven and this change takes
nothing from its power to love You see
now the thing I wait for, you possess the
thing I hope for; you know in what I have
believed
Arnold would probably change noth-
ing:—
Mdlle de Guerin is not one of those
saints arrived at perfect sweetness and calm
steeped in ecstasy; there is something primi-
tive, indomitable in her She writes with
incomparable precision a lightness of
touch, a feminine ease and grace, a flowing
facility Almost every thought in her was
brought into harmony with religion....
Her soul had the same characteristic quality
as [her brother’s] talent— distinction. Of
this quality the world is impatient; it chafes
against it, rails at it, insults it, hates it.
It ends by receiving its influence, and by
undergoing its law. This quality at last
inexorably corrects the world’s blunders,
and fixes the world’s ideals.
It would still be hard to change a
word of that, except, perhaps the part
about correcting the world’s blunders.
Arnold, who hoped so much from
literature and an increase of culture,
could hardly have anticipated the
psychological biography, such as the
Maurois life of Shelley, or Hollywood’s
film of the life of Chopin; and Eugenie
de Guerin survives and is revived for us,
less as a writer of distinction than as
author and heroine of a strange and
powerful love story.
Diving for Pearls.
There is a song, sung with deep and
palatable groans by basso-profundos, of
which the words go something like this;
How awful the life of a diver must be
Walking alone, walking alone,
Walking alone in the depths of the sea.
It was probably composed by a literary
gentleman who knew nothing about div-
ing ; for Clarence Benham, whose Diver's
Luck has been published by Angus and
Robertson, is not heard once to groan
from his first page to his last And he
knows all about diving.
True, the life is awful enough. There
are, for instance, the cockroaches on the
lugger William:
There were tremendously huge cock-
roaches sporting antennae as long .as them-
selves, with brown heads and immensely
long and powerful wings. Later on, I found
that these ferocious animals chewed the skin
from the ends of my toes so very gently
when I was sleeping that they did not wake
me. The painful part came next day when
the salt water made the sore spots smart.
And true, Mr. Benham walks alone in
the depths of the sea. Sometimes, as
when he is on a newly-found patch of
pearlshell near the Torres Reefs, south
of Hawkesbury Island, there is a surpris-
ing amount of company under at the
bottom of the ocean:
Seeing several shells close together I had
hurried towards them. At the same time
two other divers forced their way through
the still water to the spot so that the three
of us got there together. Each man seized
and bagged as many as possible just like
boys scrambling for pennies.
But most of the time the diver is alone,
down with the coral and the sponges, the
octopus and the giant clam, the shark and
the devil-fish:
Try to imagine how scared I was, this
time, by the swift onrush of six or seven
huge diamond-rays or “bats” as I am told
the Americans call them.... Not one of
them seemed to be less than ten feet athwart
the beam, yet they were as lively as kittens.
Mr. Benham seems to have relished
this life while he was living it —possibly
with reservations, but he was obviously
a born adventurer. Certainly he has en-
joyed reliving it while writing Diver s
Luck, and the reader enjoys it with him.
He has a rich and Rabelaisian humor
which can digest the earth’s or the sea’s
most indigestible objects:
The beef had most, if not all, of the colors
of the rainbow; it had blue, green, grey
and yellow in streaks and blobs. I have
an idea that the smell was colored, too.
He has the adventurous spirit that makes
light—but not too light—of the dangers
of the ocean, and he has the toughness
necessary both to live a rough life and to
describe it without false sentiment:
About three o’clock I saw a Japanese
being captured by Davy Jones in such an
effective trap that there was no escape
possible for him, or any chance of a
rescue Both his pipe and line had been
caught round the stem of a big coral mush-
room, and he had been drawn to it himself,
and was acting the part of a toggle when
I first saw him, to the drifting lugger over-
head. As I struggled uselessly to reach him
the full weight of the vessel came on his
gear... .the pipe went, and a moment after-
wards the lifeline snapped where it had been
frayed on the coral.
Now an extraordinary thing occurred.
The diver struggled to his feet. Turning,
he saw and ran desperately towards me.
We both knew that could we but meet I
might carry him to the surface by taking a
turn of my lifeline round him, for his valve
was closed and he had yet some air to
breathe. But it was determined otherwise
by the gods. Struggle as hard as I might,
by clutching at the coral growths, deflating
my dress to gain weight, and scrambling
with all my power, I could not meet him
before he toppled, and went slowly turning
over, and over, along with the tide.
The book is the story of Mr. Benham’s
life as a diver around Torres Straits and
the Solomons, from his first descent into
the depths with aching ears until eventu-
ally, after all kinds of adventures above
and below water, he retired to become a
trader.
Wherever you dive into it you come up
with treasure : Maltese Joe trying to cure
the dying Cranky Sullivan with cakes
made of flour, brown sugar, salt-beef fat
and parings from Cranky’s toenails . . .
the Groper knocking his native wife, Old
Schooner, off the deck into the ocean
because she had grossly insulted him dur-
ing a game of crib . . . sea-snakes, when
trodden on, coming up to the surface “to
swear” ... a “very slimy seaweed” which,
when boiled, is like cornflour . . . the
shark in which the Groper found a
fourteen-pound tin of beef —unopened
. . . the native diver named Treacle who
once had his head inside a shark’s mouth
and, much scarred, lived to tell the story
to tourists . . . the jellyfish, three feet
long, in which were embedded five little
fish it had eaten . . . the “jellyfish-snake”
which, when Mr. Benham tried to lift it
with an oar, broke into three pieces, after
which “the head part, about a foot of it,
went swimming away by itself” ... the
tremendous and tragic cyclone in which
Billy Pitt and two women swam for
twelve hours and lived, and which
stranded thirteen porpoises fifty feet up
a cliff at Flinders, west of Cape Melville
. . . the whale which “wriggled” on the
sea-floor beside the diver “like a playful
puppy” . . . the story of Maryborough
Bill, drunk and murderous, shooting at
his native crew . . . and, the most astonish-
ing story of all, the fight on the sea-floor
with a Japanese diver:
When the Jap was within about six feet
his band came from behind, holding a
heavy bolt with a big nut on its. end. He
raised this while he stretched out his left
hand to seize me. “My God,” I thought,
“the cow wants to smash in my face-glass!”
Dropping the shell in my right hand I
suddenly grabbed his left and pulled hard,
and quickly, towards me. He lurched for-
ward, and an outstretched leg and a push
sent him toppling 1 arrived just in time
to kick his face-glass with my heavy, lead-
soled, right boot. What a big bubble that
made! Suddenly he went limp, but I
still held him down just in case he was
foxing. Then I realised the murdering
swine was dead, so I picked up the heavy
bolt, and my hag of shell, and went up,
very much out of breath.
It is not every day one encounters a
heavy iron bolt from the blue like this.
Mr. Benham is as colorful as lon Idriess
in his adventure stories, his nature-notes
on the Barrier Reef and elsewhere are as
interesting as T. C. Roughley’s, and his
submarine, experiences are something
altogether out of the ordinary. His book
is likely to be an Australian best-seller,
and it deserves to be.
Australian Aviation Annual 1949:
Stanley Brogden (author; P.O. Box 34,
Hawthorn, E 2, Vic.). Mr. Brogden seems
to be able to compile anything about any-
thing, for he also edited the invaluable
The Australian Free-Lance. The Aviation
Annual deals with everything from civil
aviation to model plane clubs, from the
R.A.A.F. to gliders. Mr. Brogden ob-
serves: “The Government’s frankly ex-
clusionist attitude to A.N.A.’s plans for
overseas operations is either wicked or
wonderful, according to one’s personal
ideology, but it can hardly help the de-
velopment of Australian aviation. But
for this attitude A.N.A. would today be
operating across the Tasman, to America
and Europe, and to China,”
* * * *
Prizes of £25 and £l5 are offered by
the W.A. branch of the R.S.L. for a
poem about Western Australia suitable
for setting to music. No entry fee;
previous publication no bar. Closing
date, August 1, 1949. Details from Mr.
J. A. K. Tonkin, the “West Australian
office, Perth, or from the State secretary
of the R.S.L., Anzac House, St. George s-
terrace, Perth.


TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING”
HITHOIII lIIIIIIIHI SS'
m
m
:■ •
.
%
C,
V
S>X
o
«
&
r
m
fa*
HI
SP^
m i
:V
y
■ * ,
m
TT»Si|
■' ; : >'-
SfeJ
0
01%
<».*>
c£<r:
,v-
N>e
:
Sgs
vite
Pi
rf’&ty
m
m
M
£3
g-i
r/o
m
%£
jr/>\
ifa*
Hh
i
■
n ...w;-
Vi
1-^
a
English Earthenware Set
of 3 jugs, 1, 14, 2pt. cap.
With floral spray of pink
roses. Price per set, 19/11.
7
English Non-drip Teapots
in brown earthenware with
salmon band. 3-cup size,
5/4; 5-cup, 5/7; 6-cup, 6/2.
Meuhin’s English
Fine Earthenware
cups and saucers, medium
breakfast, capacity Boz,,
with blue band, gold-edge.
Price per half dozen, 26/6.
/7%
3
M cakin' 1 s Celeste Blue
7-piece fruit and salad set
comprising 6 bowls and
serving dish. Set, 13/6.
Agee Pyrex Ovenusare
oval entree dishes with re-
versible cover. x
Bin., 10/9 each. Bread or
cake pan, 9 x 5 x 2|in., 5/3.
French Moulded Glass
Water Bottle.
2 pint capacity, complete
with stopper. 5/6 each.
Your table will attain new beauty with a
Barker’s 50-pieee Utility Set, £7T-
With an attractive Blue Floral Spray design and Old Gold tracing on Ivory finish, set
comprises six each bread and butter, breakfast, entree and dinner plates, six each oatmeal
bowls, sweet dishes, cups and saucers; one salad bowl and sauce boat. Price, complete, £7/7/■
Tho’s Webb English Crystal
Table Suite “Ribbonette” Pattern
New shape, thin, attractive glass, Liqueurs,
3/11 each; port or sherry, 4/3 each;
cocktail, 4/9 each; claret, 4/9 each;
goblets, 8oz„ 5/- each; 4
tumblers, 50z., 3/8; 10oz., 3/11 each;
jugs, l|pt., 16/11 each;
liqueur decanters, 29/6 each;
wine decanter, 39/6 each.
f A A
(AAA
(A /\jf
A
y
A
a:
i
A
M\
r-l
m.
Stoneware
Footwarmer , 9/10
Approx, capacity 2 pints,
ideal for cold nights!
English
White Chambers
Well glazed Earthenware
Chambers. Price, 12/9 ea.
CHINA AND GLASSWARE—THIRD FLOOR. TELEPHONE: M 2401; POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vtol. 70—No. 3619
Wednesday, June 22, 1949
HE WANTS THE LOT—AND THEN SOME.
“Either I get what I want or I smash up the whole joint, see?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.O.}, Wellington.
ANARCHY OR LAW?
During the hearing of a Miners’
Federation “demand” for long-service
leave and other things, Mr. Gallagher, the
Coal Industry Tribunal, was informed
that the Federation intended to hold a
slopwork to allow the miners to “discuss
the claims.” Mr. Gallagher thereupon
announced that he was “sick and tired
of acting on his own initiative,” criticised
the coal-owners for first publishing a
statement that they agreed with the
principle of long-service leave and then
opposing it, and invited them to invoke
the law against the slopwork:
Some time ago I laid down a procedure
for coalmine stoppages. I made it clear
that if an application was made to me for
an order directing resumption of work, I
would hear it immediately.... but nobody
has seen fit to take action. In those cir-
cumstances I do not think I should be
asked to take any other action. If you
know that there is a stoppage of work
/ taking place in a fortnight’s time, I suggest
it is the duty of your clients to make
immediate application to me for an order.
Mr. Gallagher also said:
It is the responsibility of the Joint Coal
Board to exclude from the industry any
persons it thinks should be excluded. If
certain employees are holding up the
industry I cannot imagine a clearer case
for expulsion from the industry.
This could have explained the reluc-
tance of the owners to seek “work”
orders. They could be pardoned for
supposing that the J.C.B. was the
authority to take action, especially as the
’ 1.C.8. has taken over the management
and working of some of their collieries.
There are also State-owned collieries, and
the onus is just as much on the State
Governments concerned as on the pri-
vate owners.
However, the Combined Colliery Pro-
prietors’ Association acted quickly and
sought an order to stop the coalminers
from striking or holding slopworks for
“approximately three months.” Mr.
Gallagher gave the miners’ leaders a
chance to cancel the one-day strike set
for last Thursday—called for the pur-
pose of endorsing a general strike on
June 27 “to enforce their claims for
higher wages and better conditions” —
and, when they refused, proceeded with
the application and made an order out-
lawing Thursday’s slopwork and accom-
panying it with words of stern import:
I think the public has just about had
enough... .The fact that the country is
going to be faced with ruination with the
making of an order is not a proper ground
for refusing the order. If the community
is frightened to have its own laws enforced,
we are not going to remain a stable com-
munity much longer.
Words of great moment both to the
community and to the Federal “Labor”
Government, which has frequently per-
mitted its laws to be abused on the
ground that “you can’t jail thousands of
men”—earlier it was that Mr. Chifley
objected to “crucifying the workers.”
The obvious thing was to make
the men’s leaders responsible, and the
coal-owners told the tribunal that they
would “probably” do that if the order
was disobeyed. There is provision in
the Coal Industry Act making individuals
liable to a fine of £lOO or six months
jail or both; a company is liable to a
fine of £lOOO.
The hearing was very interesting:
First Grant, the Miners’ Federation sec-
retary, challenged the tribunal’s jurisdic-
tion. He was overruled. Then Williams,
Communist president of the Miners’ Federa-
tion, refused to divulge the resolution for
Thursday’s stopwork or the names of the
movers. He was invited to give evidence
on oath, protested, then yielded, named
Parkinson (southern district president) and
Comerford (northern district councillor) as
movers and said the resolution was carried
by 10 to 6. He could not remember the
names of those who voted for and against.
Upon Grant saying he didn’t believe the
owners were unanimous about seeking the
order, Davie (secretary of the C.C.P.A.)
took the oath and said all decisions of his
organisation were unanimous, and that if
the order was disobeyed the owners would
prosecute “probably” the leaders. Williams
submitted the C.C.P.A. was not a
properly-constituted authority” and was a
threat to the public interest.
Whereupon the tribunal asked if the
cancellation of trains would not be a
threat to the public interest. Williams
was full of threats;
, J to warn the authorities that this
Is not the. way to get coal If our men
become victims of this, we will mobilise
the whole of the trade-union movement
against the injustice of it.
So was Parkinson:
The rank and file will not be concerned
about their log of claims when they hear
about this. They will be vitally interested
in their rights as trade-unionists. We can’t
belt these men.
Mr. Gallagher remarked that he
thought there should be a rule of law
in the coal industry. Parkinson then
said that which ought to startle people
and Governments out of any com-
placency they may have left in this
matter:
You are trying to bring a rule of law
into an industry which has had hundreds
of years of anarchy.
That, of course, is exactly what the
tribunal is trying to do, and that is pre-
cisely what the whole country strongly
desires. But law, evidently, is of no use
to the like of Parkinson. He wants
anarchy to continue. So do all the Com-
munists. Wherever they lead unions those
unions consistently flout industrial law,
arbitration and conciliation, as their
union “interests” encounter them. They
respect only those Governments which
jump on them with both feet, and so far
the Sydney and Canberra “Labor” Gov-
ernments have only jumped at their direc-
tion.
Communist union-bosses work up claims
for submission to lawfully-constituted
authorities and announce that if they
aren’t granted they’ll “pull the men out,”
irrespective of what damage and loss is
suffered by the nation at large. In their
attempts to bully arbitrators they even
stage strikes while the claims are being
heard. Nowhere in the past decade of
their evil history in this country have
they ever displayed anything' but dis-
taste for law and government. It has
clearly been their intention to bring the
Commonwealth down in ruins. They
know full well what they are about.
By this time the people know it.
And by this time Mr. Chifley and
his Cabinet should know it. Dr.
Evatt should know it, and it some-
how seems fitting that he should
return to Australia just in time to face
what may well be the disastrous conclu-
sion of the long train of trouble he began
when he legalised the Communist party
and “streamlined arbitration.”
For it is an election year, and, as the
Coal Industry Tribunal said, “the public
has just about had enough.”
But, though the public may have had
enough—it is long-suffering in all con-
science—it must take to its heart Mr.
Gallagher’s other remark about the rule
of law being essential to the stability of
the whole community. Last Thursday’s
minority vote in an industry which has
been fed “anarchy” by Communists for
over a generation must not be allowed to
stand between the rule of law and the
getting of the nation’s vital coal fuel.
Australia’s present plight is to an extent
its own disgrace.
Come Clean, Mr. Chifley!
On the Giralda, the great belfry-tower of
the cathedral of Seville, is mounted a
figure of Faith, which, ironically enough,
acts as a weathercock. The figure is of
brass, 14ft. high, holding in one hand a
branch of palm and in the other a square
flag which serves as a dog-vane.
Mr. Chifley expounding “Labor’s”
faith to the annual conference of the
N.S.W. branch of the A.L.P. is some-
tfling like that figure.
The Australian public will not know
from the things he has said what “Labor”
really believes about Soviet Russia, or
the Communist fifth-columns in various
parts of the world (including this coun-
try), or Australia’s role in the world
effort for recovery, or —vital question in
domestic politics—the Chifley attitude on
socialisation. Nor is it intended that the
Australian public should know. The
elections are to be fought on the slogan:
“Trust blindly in Chifley, our only
political saviour” —Chifley, standing there
like the figure of Faith, swinging gently on
a gimbal to every passing breeze.
Mr. Chifley told the conference, for
instance:
I believe it will take Russia another 50
years to catch up to the standard of living
enjoyed in Australia.
What is the purpose, then, of the A.L.P.
platform as first devised at the All-Aus-
tralian Trades Union Congress of 1921,
along with plans for a Supreme Eco-
nomic Council on the Soviet model —
adoption of the Russian way of life —to
rule on the morrow of the Socialist revo-
lution? These plans have never been
abandoned, and have in recent years even
been reaffirmed. Or does Mr. Chifley
mean that the standard of living will, as
it deteriorates in Australia under Social-
ism, approximate to that of Russia by
a.d. 1999?
Of the growing unrest in Asia Mr,
Chifley said;
The Communists are throwing fuel on
the flames, not helping, but rather hindering.
And, in spite of the phenomenon (to him)
that throwing fuel on the fire actually
feeds it, and though Russia has for 12
months been carrying on a form of war
in the blockade of Berlin, and abetting
actual war, nearly concluded, in the
fastening by force of a Communist mili-
tary regime upon all China, Mr. Chifley
adds: “I have never believed, and still
do not believe, that the people who guide
its [Russia’s] destinies would be so
foolish as to want another war.” In
other words, throwing fuel on the fire of
war may actually feed the flames, but he
refuses to believe that such is the “so
foolish” Communist intention.
Again, Mr. Chifley said:
The task of the “Labor” movement is
to help everyone in the world who was,
perhaps, not as fortunate as Australians
[of course, no other people are] All
we can do to help them is, by our own
example, and by assistance in various ways,
by advice and by direct financial assistance,
to play our very small part in a great
world filled with economic trouble. We
must sell our wool and wheat....
And if the sky-high prices we have
been receiving for those world staples
should fall (as for the world’s salvation
they must), then (vide Sunday-night radio
“Reports to the Nation”) a recession will
be upon Australia and we shall be in
the same horrible soup as those other
people we are now “assisting” with wool
and wheat at famine prices.
If this sort of stuff should raise merely
mild intellectual dissent in Australian
electors —if Socialist Faith is bound to be
but a weathercock in the international
political and economic winds of this
fantastic era of Government controls —
let the public debate Mr. Chifley’s
supreme absurdity in his remarks on how
dear to his and “Labor’s” Socialist heart
is the advancement in Australia of pri-
vate enterprise;
No Government in the history of Aus-
tralia had ever given private enterprise the
same advice and assistance as had been
given by the Labor Government. The
doors of the N.S.W, and Federal Govern-
ments had always been open
Expansion of private industry was being
delayed only by the country’s inability to
meet the tremendous demand for essential
raw materials!
Thus the “S. M. Herald” report. That
of Sydney “Daily Telegraph” records
him more crisply as saying;
The Government had an ever-open door
to assist private enterprise to develop essen-
tial or worthy industries.
Any discrepancy in the two reports does
not really matter, since obviously what
Mr. Chifley was endeavoring to put
across (always with that air of keeping
himself, like Seville’s figure of Faith, not
too unambiguously quotable) is that
“Labor” Codlin has been the friend of
private enterprise, not Liberal Short.
Just eight months ago, at the Federal
conference of the A.L.P., “Labor’s”
weathercock was pointing in exactly the
opposite direction. Some in the party at
that time tried by blowing against its
vane to make it mark time on socialisa-
tion, having veered that way far enough
—and perhaps a bit too far—for the
present stomach of the electors. But the
conference majority spurned such tem-
porising, and Mr. Chifley congratulated
it on reaffirming the complete socialisa-
tion objective, “This is not a movement
to be shifted by a puff of wind that blows
here or there,” he said. He told that con-
ference nothing about being the friend
of private enterprise, which indeed he
cursed as “vested interests.” “Labor”
would not nationalise “hamburgers and
ice-cream shops,” but “if a great public
utility essential to the needs of the
public” (in caucus’s opinion, of course)
“is badly managed” (also in caucus’s
opinion) “then it should be nationalised.”
We have been making a selection of
essential things for the wellbeing of the
community, so that we do not get mixed
up with those things that do not matter.
Now whether on his election platform
Mr. Chifley may propose to socialise all
industries deemed essential, as he said in
October, 1948, or to stand as guardian
at “the Government’s ever-open door
to assist private enterprise to develop
essential industries,” as he said last week,
the test of his intentions lies elsewhere.
The electors will not need to look up at
Faith being swung by its dog-vane in
order to discover the way the wind blows.
The one hard, incontrovertible fact is
that Mr. Chifley, like every other “Labor”
member, has signed a party pledge which
is his sole passport to any political posi-
tion at all, and which binds him, in the
words of the pledge,
to actively support and advocate at all
times the party’s objective—the socialisa-
tion of industry, production, distribution,
and exchange.
Nor is there the slightest doubt about
the basis of this “fighting policy,” for
the 1921 A.L.P. conference prescribed in
preparation for a Socialist Common-
wealth “the nationalisation of banking
and all principal industries,” and, as the
ultimate objective, government of the
country by a Supreme Economic Council
in substitution for Parliament. The con-
ference of 1931 approved a Three-Year
Plan for vesting in the Government
ownership of “all specified industries,”
especially the trading banks; and the
conference of 1945, which gave Prime
Minister Chifley his orders, named in
this specification “banking and credit,
monopolies and near-monopolies (indus-
trial, transport, power, etc.) including
coal, oil, arms and munitions.” The
general terms include,* of course, steel,
shipping, insurance, and there was ex-
pressly added by the conference resolu-
tion a national planning council “to co-
ordinate the remaining private section of
industry with the nationalised section.”
With the return of “Labor” to office
at the 1946 elections —on a programme
outlined by Mr. Chifley which carefully
kept this programme hidden from view—
those lieutenants of his who had in past
years worked hard in conference on plans
for “the day” began to come out into
the open. The Chifley Bank Grab Bill
gave the signal, and the “Labor”-Com-
munist alliance attacked in unison. Every
Communist union-boss’s attack on the
Arbitration Court can be matched from
the records of 1947 with political
“Labor” attacks on the High Court
Bench. The Speaker of the House of
Representatives appeared on a Sydney
Domain rostrum with the Minister for
Information, and while Mr. Rosevear
inveighed against the Judges Mr. Cal-
well announced that “the capitalist
system is collapsing and wo are going to
take over.”
But these voices are now mum.
As the shadows of the elections begin
to obscure the Socialist sunshine Mr.
Chifley is discovered proclaiming that no
other Government has ever done so much
to assist private enterprise. That his
party can stand that sort of thing without
question is the more reason that the
general mass of electors should insist that
Mr. Chifley should “come clean.”
A Droving Feat.
Bill Gwydir took charge of 650 fat
cattle at Pandie Pandie station (S.A.),
just below the Queensland border, south
of Birdsville, and with his droving plant
turned them southwards on to the stock-
route for Marree, something over 300
miles away. West of the moving herd,
in s.-w. Queensland, the Cooper channel
country was in flood —one of the biggest
floods in years—and the whole of that
country is in great heart after abnormal
rains. In due course the drovers rounded
Goyder’s Lagoon, crossed the War-
burton, passed south by Lake Howitt
and hit the Kopperamanna crossing on
the Cooper, being then about 100 miles
from the railhead at Marree, where the
fats would be entrained for the Adelaide
market. A week earlier Jack Dickson’s
plant, with 800-odd fats, had crossed,
the stream being then about 300 yards
wide. But more Cooper water got down
to Kopperamanna in the meantime, and
before Gwydir’s drovers and their mob
was a two-miles-wide flood.
Behind Gwydir were thousands more
cattle, following him down the Birdsville-
Marree track. To go back meant missing
the Adelaide market and running into
the oncoming mobs, with all the trouble
and loss that could mean. Bill consulted
with Johnny, one of his abo. stockmen.
Johnny volunteered to try the crossing
with the horses, about 40 head. He
drove them into it, and behind him the
others pushed the cattle on his tail. The
waters were cold and strongly-running—
in places up to 10 miles an hour. Johnny
and the horses waded a fair way, the abo.
picking his track through the waters,
then came a swim of about half a mile,
with Johnny hanging to his mount’s tail
and the cattle following him blindly.
Johnny had marked an island, and made
it after about li miles of wading and
swimming.
Then came the real test. The main
flood channel, 150 yards wide and 25
feet deep, lay between them and dry
land. In went the horses and Johnny,
in went the cattle; they were nearly a
quarter-mile downstream when they
landed. Gwydir, who can’t swim, got
across in a tiny boat. Only eight cattle
were lost in the crossing, which took six
hours.
The feat set the example for the fol-
lowing mobs. Where one mob had gone
another could, and Gwydir and Johnny
actually' opened the way to Adelaide
through the floodwaters. Perhaps the
story doesn’t convey all that it should
convey, being a bare statement of what
occurred. But 10,000 fats come down
the Birdsville track in a year like this,
and if Gwydir’s mob hadn’t crossed at
Kopperamanna few, if any, of them
would have seen Marree this year. But,
then, behind all the fret and fume of
politics, the blatancy and blare of our
cities, the people of the outback go on
quietly doing things like this without
skiting about it. Hardly anybody would
have known of that crossing if an
Adelaide man hadn’t been a witness and
returned to his city eager to talk about it.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Canada's Day.
Canada’s national day will be. celebrated
on July 1, and this time Newfoundland,
the tenth province, will be a participant.
Newfoundland was interested in joining
the federation in the 1860 s, but a change
of government in Britain’s “Oldest
Colony” kept her out —and out she re-
mained for 81 years.
Canada today has a population of over
13 millions. The Dominion was one of
the original signatory Powers to the
Atlantic Pact. She is the third-greatest
trading nation in the world, exports mak-
ing up at least a third of her total in-
come. Immigration brought 125,603 new
citizens to Canada during the year to
March 31, including 40,015 from Britain.
Oil production developed rapidly over
the past 10 years, and petroleum self-
sufficiency is in sight.
Canada has been well-represented by
its diplomats in Australia. Justice T. C.
Davis, now in Nanking, is affectionately
remembered. And Canberra, too, will
have the kindliest memories of High
Commissioner Kenneth A. Greene, who
leaves for Ottawa on June 30. He will
be succeeded by Major-General L. R.
LaFleche.
Govern or Resign.
The Communist Miners’ Federation
executive’s move to blockade the Aus-
tralian community has all the Moscow
touch. Under a self-asserted right to
veto arbitration decisions, conciliation
or settlement on any terms but their
own, the miners’ bosses—or the Marx
House junta in Sydney—have drawn up
to the final showdown with the Govern-
ment of this country, which it has
habitually treated with contumely.
Last Thursday’s 24-hours’ stoppage
was staged ostensibly to hold meetings
to approve a general strike, but its real
purpose was intimidatory. ' The Coal
Tribunal, in forbidding the stoppage, had
declared—“ Not to make the order would
amount to an admission that the Gov-
ernment of the country has passed from
the elected representatives of the people
to those of the Miners’ Federation.” The
same argument will apply to all weak-
ness in dealing with fhe major threat
now.
At the aggregate meetings the motion
put was framed not by the Combined
Mining Unions’ Council but by the
Miners’ Central Council. , By an over-
whelming majority of 4000 miners who
voted —out of a membership of 10,000 —
the recommendation from the Communist-
bossed executive for “a general stoppage
on Monday, June 27, failing satisfaction
of our claims,” was endorsed.
Whether the miners understood that
they were voting definitely for a strike
is debatable. Boss Williams declared
after the numbers went up that “the
strike can be averted by the responsible
authorities —Federal and N.S.W. Gov-
ernments and Joint Coal Board—if these
bodies agree to the miners’ demands.”
What he told the miners’ meetings (at
Adamstown, for instance) was:
We are not asking you for a general
strike. If members demonstrate they are
united and strong, 1 think the authorities
will settle this within a week.
That may have deluded the miners—
though any such delusion is doubtful —
but it will not delude anybody else.
The colliery proprietors’ case is clear.
They have for three years been pushed
out of the way by the two Governments
whose managing instrument is the Joint
Coal Board, but they were brusquely
told by the Coal Tribunal a week previ-
ously that it was their duty to prosecute
the miners for breaches of his orders
and awards. Any prosecutions they
launch, therefore, must elicit full sup-
port of the Joint Coal Board and the
two Governments.
One way or another, the onus is on
the Chifley and McGirr Governments to
stand up to the miners or get out of
office.
"Highway Robbery."
Few politicians can be as contemptuous
and callous towards those they regard
either as political enemies or people with-
out influence as the Prime Minister, But
he should have taken a little more
thought before saying in the Federal Par-
liament that States asking for more
money for road maintenance and con-
struction might be told that the way to
get it would be to increase registration
fees on motor vehicles. If Mr. Chifley
imagines that motor-owners aren’t
aware of his flagrant use of petrol-tax
money for purposes other than those for
which it was imposed his head must in-
deed be in the clouds.
Motoring organisations throughout
Australia are determined to have the
petrol-tax either reduced or applied to
its real purpose or both, and they are
apprising their members of the position,
which can be summarised like this:
The tax was first imposed over 20 years
, ago for the sole and specific purpose of
maintaining and building roads, bridges,
etc. It was then 3d. a gallon. In 1930 it
rose to 7d. In 1940 it was made Is., and
became an unjust tax, inasmuch as it was
“hypothecated” for war purposes, thus be-
coming a war-tax on a special section of
the community. ' Motorists, patriotically,
accepted it. It was*reduced to 101 d. after
the war, but Mr. Chifley now regards it as
“primarily a revenue impost to meet the
expenditure of the Commonwealth.” As
such, it is a penal tax on the whole motor-
transport system. The private owner, in
addition to ordinary taxes, pays this extra
tax for the privilege of owning a car.
The tax now amounts to about £l6
million a year, but very little of it is to
be spent on roads. Motor vehicles are
increasing, which means increased petrol-
tax revenue. But roads are falling into
ruin everywhere because Main Roads
Boards and local authorities can’t get
money to repair them. And Mr, Chifley’s
remedy for this last is an increase in
registration fees! No wonder the presi-
dent of the R.A.C.V. described it as
“highway robbery.”
A Foundation Brick.
Clive Evatt’s chief distinction as N. S.
Wales Housing Minister has been in the
matter of laying foundation-stones, and
most people 'held the opinion that nary
a Housing Commission home went up
but Clive was there with souvenir trowel
in hand. Apparently there have been
some exceptions. “S. M. Herald” housing
correspondent criticised a batch of homes
being built at Roseville under the Com-
mission’s advances scheme, saying that
the homes were of a superior type to the
usual Commission home and that an un-
due proportion seemed to have been
allotted to civil servants. Commission
chairman Gallop denied the charge, and
Clive, answering a question in Parlia-
“NEW LOOK” FOR THE INKY WAY.
“During the week in which N.S. Wales Premier McGirr brought down his bill to gag political comment in the Press for 70 hours
before a State election (penalty: jail or fines), details of a new style of State prison garb were announced.”
“Try these for size. You’ll be wearing one or the other soon.”
merit, described the “Herald” article as
“a lie from beginning to end” and the
writer as “a notorious fabricator.”
He then made a few inquiries, found
11 public servants, including some of the
Commission staff, had been allotted
homes. He suspended the chairman, who,
however, refused to accept suspension,
claiming the Minister had no authority
for such an action. Then other people
began looking into the “advances scheme”
and the extent of civil-service participa-
tion. One paper asserted that 55 out of
96 homes approved under this section had
gone to members of the public service ;
much of the land on which the houses
had been built had been compulsorily
acquired at prices considerably below
that of comparable land near by. On
Monday Clive had quite a lot to think
about. It was bad weather for laying
foundation-stones, anyway.
A Call to Australia.
The fact that, as president of the Liberal
party, Mr. R. G. Casey has had a good
deal of responsibility for the revision of
its national policy during the past two
years lends importance to the collection
in book form, Double or Quit (F. W.
Cheshire, Melbourne and London), of his
public talks on Australian problems.
Taking small things first—the inevitable
force of events is compelling the Federal
“Labor” Government to' adopt Liberal
proposals such as control by the Arbitra-
tion Court, on request by trade-union
members, of union election ballots to
correct abuse by union officials, and in-
centive-payments in industry as an en-
couragement of greater output. But this
is only a minor challenge to partisan
waste of time and stupid strife. In Mr.
Casey’s view the necessity (recognised by
all parties) for the speeding-up of Aus-
tralian development and population, if
this Commonwealth is to be made secure
for the children of the present genera-
tion, must lead to a broader and more
practical policy than “Labor” reveals for
the planning of the future economy.
Mr. Casey is the least polemical .of our
political debaters. His whole outlook
is governed by the conviction that Aus-
tralians politically and industrially are,
for the health of the nation, too much
divided into antagonistic camps. There
is too much intolerance, too little decency
and desire for mutual understanding—■
especially in industry. “We have,” he
holds, “got to get our human relation-
ships right.”
The two problems upon which Mr.
Casey concentrates are (.1) the crying
urgency, forced upon us by our paucity
of population, to develop speedily our
strength as a unit of international society,
and (2) our employer-employee relations.
He declares that exclusive Government
management and planning cannot build
up our immigration intake in the neces-
sary volume, or provide in development
schemes for the absorption of the new-
comers. The Snowy River works will
take 25 years to complete. The Burdekin
and Blair Athol schemes have been for
years merely paper proposals, and look
like remaining so. Mr. Casey’s father
urged development of Blair Athol coal
deposits in the Queensland Assembly 57
years ago.
The proper function of Governments
is to act as “development stimulators” —
to undertake such works as the T.V.A.
in America in order that private enter-
prise may be given opportunity on the
widest scale to get down to work. For
expansion of both farming and manu-
facturing industry the provision of vastly
more mechanical power, primary and
secondary, is imperative. Worthy as it
is, the present immigration effort must be
greatly increased if this country is to
equal the achievement half a century ago
of the United States.
Mr. Casey conceives some such im-
mense and combined Government and
private-company developmental effort as
inescapable if Britain is to become a
wholehearted supporter of the Australian
Government’s proposals for “mass mi-
gration” of British industries to this
country. It requires devoted and active
research by both Government and em-
ployers’ organisations, in co-operation, to
carry out the surveys on which industries
can plan reliably for expansipn to serve
both home and export markets. Labor
must be induced, preferably by becom-
ing a full partner in both the effort and
the rewards, to abandon its narrow-
minded class-war ideas. But the initia-
tive to such education belongs to the
employers.
The Liberal leader’s plain English on
these absorbing problems—capable as
they are of infusing a new, energetic and
unifying spirit in the Australian com-
munity —is one of the most compelling
appeals to political re-thinking in our
national affairs that has been delivered
since the first splendid vision of Australia
as-she-might-be enthused the young
Commonwealth’s leaders of 50 years ago.


£
S A
m
craven*
Z* *** *
sow
w
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY |
POLITICAL POINTS
Victoria’s Legislative Council election,
on which Cain “Labor” and Dunstan-
McDonald Country party placed high
hopes of forcing Hollway’s Lib.-C.P.
Government to go to the country, passed
off on Saturday leaving the relative
strengths of Government and Opposition
parties unchanged, although “Labor”
picked up one seat, Melbourne North,
from an Independent—football partisan-
ship playing almost as big a part as
politics in ousting the sitting member, Mr.
O’Brien. Where Lib.-C.P. and Country-
party candidates clashed, each side re-
tained its ground. Bendigo provided the
most interesting contest, as Mr. Lienhop,
one of the “rebels” who left the Country
party, to join the Lib.-C.P., was opposed
by a strong candidate in Mr. A. Brown-
bill, president of the local branch of the
Country party. Lienhop won comfort-
ably, and commented that the campaign
had been the swan-song of Dunstan.
Party strengths in the Council are now
Lib.-C.P. 18; Country party eight;
“Labor” eight. •
Granting of the miners’ demands at the
present time could only mean the accept-
ance of a lowered coal-production at a
higher cost. The effect of that upon in-
dustry and employment is too obvious to
need explanation. Yet the Communist
Williams claims that in threatening a
general hold-up his Red gang is striking a
blow for all Australian workers. “If we
break through it will give a lead to all
Australian workers to beat the worst
effects of the coming depression.” The
statement would be idiotic were it not so
criminal. A general strike would bring to
hundreds of thousands of workers and
their families all the miseries of a depres-
sion, nonetheless real for being arti-
ficially created for Communist ends.
Soft-pedalling a little on nationalisa-
tion —even a Socialist boa-constrictor has
to pay some attention to its digestion—
the Attlee Government nevertheless in-
tends to grab the cement industry and
industrial assurance. Cement is a
“monopoly” ; industrial assurance is in-
efficiently run. The Cement Makers’
Federation disputes the monopoly label
and points out that the Government’s
own Monopoly Commission absolved it
from the charge. It claims that British
cement is the cheapest in the world ; last
year’s home deliveries and export figures
were a record ; and the output per worker
exceeds that of the American industry.
The cement industry “was marked down
for nationalisation because it seemed a
nice plum, easy for picking: an orchard-
robber’s joy.”
That unnecessary branch of the Com-
monwealth Public Service the Common-
wealth Employment Bureau got a boost
from the Prime Minister in one of his
radio talks. He claimed that the organi-
sation had placed 350,000 persons in jobs
during the past 12 months. No doubt
the bureau could produce books to sub-
stantiate the claim, but how could it
miss? Chifley’s Minister for Labor and
Industry bleats almost weekly that there
are something like 100,000 more jobs
than there are men to fill them. If the
Commonwealth Employment Service had
never existed those 350,000 persons would
be in jobs just the same. So, too, would
the 1500 persons who man the 200 offices
of the Employment Service.
Kingaroy peanut-growers mean to ask
the Prime Minister to set up a Royal
Commission to inquire into Calwell’s
charges against Adermann (Maranoa)
that he abused his chairmanship of the
Peanut Board and did certain things with
a co-operative society. They’ll be no
more successful than Adermann himself,
for the Prime Minister no longer cares a
peanut for the views of people other than
union leaders, political sycophants and
Communists.
Television is to be a Government
monopoly. While this will save lookers-
in from having to watch radio-announcers
washing their hands with Binks’s soap,
cleaning their teeth with Jinks’s tooth-
paste or curing their headaches with
Sphinx A.P.C. powders, it does not raise
any great hopes as to the entertainment
value of the proposed service. But it does
mean that everyone will have a personal
interest in television. Everyone —at least,
every taxpayer—will be able to feel that
he is paying his share of the losses of the
service, whether he owns a look-in set
or not.
Herbert Morrison to delegates at the
Blackpool conference:
If a shopkeeper wants to bring politics
into business let our women say “1 came
here to buy—not to talk politics.”
There was a time when the Socialists
wanted their supporters to talk politics
in order to win converts. Now, appa-
rently, they are afraid it may work the
other way.
Victoria’s Housing Minister Warner
last week complained that his Govern-
ment’s intention to sell Housing Com-
mission homes to tenants at a price
based on the average cost of all Com-
mission homes had been defeated by the
Prime Minister’s refusal to agree to the
proposal, although the Victorian Govern-
ment had undertaken to bear any loss in-
volved and to repay Federal loans in full,
regardless of the price at which a shack
was sold. Chifley had insisted that the
homes be sold at cost or market price,
whichever was the greater. Warner re-
marked: “Apparently this is consistent
with the stated policy of‘Mr. Dedman of
discouraging a race of ‘little capitalists’.”
At this the Federal Minister for Housing,
Lemmon, denied the accusation and
said that if Warner wanted to adopt
a cost-averaging system “the Common-
wealth would be agreeable.” Just like
that. Warner’s further comment is inter-
esting :
Since November 26, 1948, when I first
put up the plan, Mr. Chifley has con-
sistently refused to agree to it. He even
advised us to make a profit out of the
sales so that the State could pay back the
money it owed the Commonwealth. I put
up with Mr. Chifley’s obstruction tactics
for six months before publicly disclosing
what had happened. Now, within 24 hours,
the Government has made an abrupt about-
face. I will begin selling the houses to the
tenants as soon as I get a letter from Mr.
Chifley supporting his Housing Minister’s
announcement.
As both the cost of building and market-
price have skyrocketed since the scheme
commenced, the averaging system will
mean a saving to tenant-purchasers of
about £l5O a house.
Whatever may be the opinion of Ded-
man and other “Labor” Ministers in the
ethics of high-ranking public servants
contesting party pre-selection ballots,
“Labor” electoral committees don’t seem
keen on the practice. Dr. Burton failed
to win approval in Canberra and the
Queensland executive turned down F. W.
Bulcock’s nomination for Maranoa. Mr.
Bulcock is a former Queensland Minister
for Agriculture and is now Federal Direc-
tor of Agriculture. Reason given for his
rejection was that his membership of the
Victorian branch of the A.W.U. did not
qualify him for selection as a Queensland
candidate.
Close on the heels of a report that
Victoria would import 165,000 tons
of coal from India, Premier
ford announced that South Australia
had ordered 25,000 tons of coal
from South Africa for its Electri-
city Trust. Admittedly inferior to New-
castle coal, the stuff wouldn’t be given a
second thought if the New South Wales-
miners realised that by trusting their
destinies to the whims of Communists
they were putting nails in their own coffin.
The N.S.W. Government has abolished
the law requiring sheepmen to brand their
sheep. In this the McGirrs have shown
commonsense, and both woolgrowers and
the wool trade will welcome the legisla-
tion. Tar brands in wool have been a
costly nuisance ever since they were intro-
duced. Earmarking is, of course, still
required.
Some gloomy things have been said of
the power situation in Australian capitals,
but Victorian “Labor” leader Cain was
surely a trifle too pessimistic (and con-
fused) when he prophesied that “if the
alarming electricity position continues,
Victorians, like Berliners, will perish
within a few winters, all because the
Hollway Government cannot settle things
among itself.”
Whatever else it is, Russian diplomacy,
new style, isn’t as urbane as the old.
Asked in Melbourne whether he was
happy to be back in the Dominions —he
was once on the Canberra legation—M.
Alexander Alexandrov, new Russian
Minister to New Zealand, shrugged his
shoulders and said: “It is ray job. I
would go anywhere.”
Canada means to have a bigger Federal
Parliament, too, but Canada has some
excuse for it. Seven of the 17 new seats
are for Newfoundland, a newly-acquired
Province of the Dominion, and Canada’s
population has increased by 1,000,000
since 1945. Canberra has no new State,
though one, New England, may be on
the way, and Australia’s population, far
from increasing by a million in four
years, failed to do it in 14. Canada adds
17 more members for an extra million
people, Canberra adds 45 for a lesser
number —that is, assuming that Canberra
is thinking solely of the people.
Premier McGirr gets himself more and
more confused every time he tries to
justify his Press gag. Protests against the
proposed ban he regards as “torrents of
hysterical nonsense,” and- he says that
from them “one might imagine that some
vital principle was involved.” His latest
defence boils down to this: that because
papers are free to publish political com-
ment for three years between elections
they have no right to complain at being
gagged at the finish. This is “merely a
commonsense rule that the last couple of
days shall be free from mass propaganda
(on both sides).” Those last three words
make a fine showing of impartiality that
is rather weakened by an earlier passage
in his statement in which he says “there
is no proposal to restrict their freedom to
carry on their propaganda against the
Labor Government during the whole
period of the election campaign—right up
to the Wednesday night before the Satur-
day poll.” It is a strange definition of
freedom. A man who is thrown into jail
for two days every three years is free
most of the time, but it would be mighty
hard to convince him he is not a prisoner
during those two days.
Addressing Melbourne University
A.L.P. Club, Mr. Cain, leader of the Vic-
torian “Labor” party, said that the Gov-
ernment should control banks so that it
could plan on a national scale. He con-
tinued :
I believe the people of this country will
not throw away the Labor substance for
the Liberal shadow.
Cain’s faith in the electors is touching,
if his memory is short. It is less than two
years since the people of Victoria threw
away whatever substance there was in the
“Labor” Government of which he was
the head. And despite anything Cain may
say, the issue was banking.
The Communist-bossed unions which
have broken away from the
conduct of the basic-wage claim before
the Arbitration Court seem to be asking
for trouble. Their Melbourne publica-
tion “Union News,” which created the
schism in the Melbourne Trades Hall, de-
clares that the breakaway unions “have
decided t to intervene in the proceedings
....to rescue the £lO basie-wago claim
from the obviously incompetent hands of
the A.C.T.U. Right wing,” and that “job
activity in support of the demand will be
intensified.” This is exactly the course
against which the Arbitration Court
Bench required specific assurances from
the A.C.T.U.
At the time of the Adermann incident
in the Reps., Opposition members re-
ferred to dossiers allegedly kept by Mis-
information Minister Calwell on the acti-
vities of his political opponents. In the
House last Wednesday Mr. Gullett made
a direct accusation. He said it was
becoming too familiar to see Government
members rush to Mr. Calwell when
criticised by an Opposition member. Mr.
Calwell then got his officers on the Govern-
ment payroll to dig up some form of
discreditable information about the Opposi-,
tion member.
Mr. Calwell replied that the charge was
“completely false” and that he had never
“used an officer of the department/’
He bad saved news items of the past
which embarrassed Opposition members
now, but that was probably because he had
a good news-sense.
Presumably it was the Minister’s good
news-sense which prompted him to read
in the House unverified and unsub-
stantiated charges against Mr. Adermann
from a letter which if published in the
“capitalist” Press would have exposed
writer and newspaper to an action for
damages.
Latest proposed amendment to the Mc-
Kenna “free”-medicine Act —the per-
petual tinkering with it testifies to
Cabinet’s sense of the insecurity of its
ground—will provide that a doctor may,
if a patient so chooses, be absolved from
the necessity to write his prescription on
a Government form. The patient may,
for instance, object to having the nature
of the medicine prescribed for him made
known to departmental officials —which
the Government! prescription form would
convey to those scrutineers of such
private and confidential matters. But in
such cases the patient will then have to
pay for the medicine—because it is on
the doctor’s own prescription form. This,
of course, is the merest sample of what
life will be like under a full Socialist
regime.
The Attlee boys in Britain have been
talking about nationalising tobacco
industry, but the 26,000 members of the
Tobacco Workers’ Union, being “not im-
pressed with the state of nationalised
industry in Britain,” have voted against
it by 15,000 to 7000. So another Socia-
list dream goes up in smoke.
Menzies, having toured N.S.W., Vic-
toria and Tasmania, is to open a Queens-
land campaign at Toowoomba on July 4
and cover 20 centres in the Banana State.
His programme includes an early-morn-
ing talk to Brisbane wharfies.
This went to the printer—to be printed
by auxiliary power —as the A.B.C. was,
playing “Advance, Australia Fair” as
a preliminary to giving the news. News
of disastrous floods all around Sydney, in
Newcastle and Maitland and Singleton,
and down to Nowra. The city and its
hinterland for 150 miles is having the
wettest June in wjiite man’s history ; men
and animals have been lost, railways
washed away, roads made impassable,
thousands of acres of vegetables de-
stroyed and the milk supply reduced to a
trickle. This all happened in a week
when coalminers struck in defiance of the
law and to indicate their intention to
strike again next Monday. The floods
put coalmines out of action, the city’s
gas supply gave out, electricity was cut to
the bone, train schedules were reduced,
factories closed down, steel production
ceased, thousands were put off work.
Australia’s biggest city faced no blacker
prospect in the worst days of the war.
The news service contained no word from
Canberra, where reposes the Federal
“Labor” Government whose laws are de-
fied by the miners and which hopes in
six or seven months’ time to be re-elected
to power.


Society
ANDD IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Coffeecup”: It looks as though
Junius, the most terrible of all English
satirists, who never joked except to
deepen the wound, is turning gentle
humorist in his old age. Last week he
wrote a letter to the “Sydney Morning
Herald,” asking “Has the mantle of John
Wilkes fallen upon Mr. Warwick
Fairfax?” Wilkes! Denounced in the
House of Lords by the infamous Earl of
Sandwich for his unprintable Essay on
Woman; kept out of Parliament, though
illegally, because of his notoriously
immoral life; celebrant of obscene
“church” services; the demagogue who
asked a friend, while the mob cheered
him, “Do you think there are more fools
or rogues in that crowd?”, and who later
in his life said to the King: “I trust your
Majesty never mistook me for a Wilkite”!
Wilkes probably believed in nothing.
Perhaps Mr. Fairfax isn’t quite certain
what he believes in himself, but even
those who have observed him turning
himself over religiously in the “Herald,”
trying to find out, have no doubt that
when he dies Granny will be found en-
graved upon his heart.
* * * *
“Ex-C.G.”: Mr. Warwick Fairfax, of
“Sydney Morning Herald,” who has been
in verbal holts lately with Premier Mc-
Girr, had better keep a close watch on
the south. On the King’s Birthday holi-
day, Carlton played Richmond at Rich-
mond and a crowd of nearly 50,000 tried
to get into a ground capable of holding
“ We'll 'ave a go for the prize as Well, Spike."
about half that number. This was be-
cause the Blues were on top in the Mel-
bourne league and a win for Richmond
Tigers would put the Tigers level. Well,
there were big doings at the ground. The
fences fell down and people got trampled
on and women had to be carried out and
ambulance-men were busy and one un-
fortunate old chap died of heart-failure.
All this was duly reported in Mr. Fair-
fax’s paper, nearly a column of it on the
front page, and it ended, “Richmond won
the match.” All the rest of that report
might have been the wildest exaggeration
and assumption, for all that followers of
the Blues would care. But the last four
words, being wrong, would have shaken
Carlton from Bouverie-street to Mel-
bourne University, The only reason I can
see for the non-appearance of wild bar-
rackers from the south is that Granny
doesn’t penetrate the Blues’ territory. But
watch it, Mr. Fairfax; one more bloomer
like that has only to be read in Mel-
bourne and you’ll find Mr. McGirr a
sunny day compared with the storm that
will break.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Father Andre Dupeyrat, a
New Guinea missionary who was
honorary chaplain to the De Basil Com-
pany when it visited Australia, stepped
on to the stage of the Princess, Mel-
bourne, on the first night of the National
Ballet and revived an old Russian custom
by blessing the season and the dancers.
Although somewhat late in the day I
would suggest that in the interests of
Australian drama someone should per-
form the same service for “Rusty Bugles”
at the King’s.
* * * *
“Flathead”: I prepared myself for
N.S.W.’s current gipsy menace (B.
15/6/’49) by studying in a recent Sydney
“Sun” a series of photographs disclosing
what happens when an unsuspecting
motorist encounters a gipsy wench. In
Fig. 1 the “victim” handed his roll over
to the girl for “blessing,” and the next
shot showed the girl waving her hand
above the notes. Fig. 3 the “Sun” de-
scribed as “the critical move”;
That low-cut blouse momentarily dis-
tracts the victim’s attention, and the gipsy,
watching his eyes, whips away a few notes.
The last photo showed the motorist,
looking dazed, accepting the remainder of
bis money. Well, I thought, if I meet any
gipsies in ,low-cut blouses I’ll fool ’em.
The only roll I ever manage to tote about
is a 10s. note —see) if they can deal them-
selves anything off the bottom of that. In
the next day’s issue of the same paper
was a small item describing a gipsy who
had actually been apprehended and
charged with the theft of £llO. “Dark
and wrinkled 50 years of age” she
wore a military jacket over her dress.
Before her case she “stood outside the
court smoking a pipe.”
* * * *
“Es”: In a radio quiz the contestant
was asked what he’d chance on: “Music,
history, general knowledge, films....”
He said he’d take films. The announcer
sounded shocked. He was sure the con-
testant would have taken history. “No,
sir,” replied the trier, “It’s just my
glasses.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Big business at times gets
singularly dull and unimaginative. Take
the domestic-lighting set-up in Sydney.
It is painfully obvious that electricity
blackouts, more pronounced during win-
ter months, are going to be a more-or-
less permanent feature of city and
suburban life for some years at least.
Housewives mostly depend on candles
and the hurricane-lamp for peering into
the pot at night to see if the dinner is
cooked. Yet the gas stove, which the
great majority of homes use, is itself a
source of light. All that is required is
for a small tube to be run off the pipe
at or near the stove, carried up the wall
a few feet and ending in a fitting—that
arid an incandescent burner and there
would be available in the kitchen a first-
rate auxiliary light, inexpensive to instal.
Sydney’s biggest hardware warehouse
has had thousands of inquiries for them,
yet not a fitting is available, and no-
body is manufacturing them —they went
out years ago when electricity came in.
There’s a fortune going begging, with no
takers.
* * * *
“Blue Ribbon”: Congratulations to
“Nunk” on his jingles on the drink ques-
tion (B. 8/6/’49). If he cares to use his
talents to boost the other side of the
question—the temperance one—he may
possibly win the full amount
“This is the only Way MOTHER could get me to take medicine , Sister
(£l3 13s. Od.) offered by the W.C.T.U. as
prize-money for poems in four grades.
These are restricted to 20 lines suit-
able for recitation by juniors, nine
years and under; 28 lines suited for in-
termediates, 10-11-12 years; 36 lines for
seniors, 13-14-15 years; 42 lines for
adults, 16 years and over. He will have
time to make the momentous decision
and send entries to 8 Esmonde-street, Lis-
more (N.S.W.), by October 31. Any
other poet, professional or amateur, may
do the same. Thanks, “Nunk,” for the
publicity afforded the competition,
* * * *
“Nakh”: The parson who comes once
a week to our kids’ school to give
religious instruction is universally re-
garded as rather a decent sort of bloke.
His instruction mainly consists of Bible
stories, which he tells very well, but the
other day hymns were the subject-matter
of his discourse. “What follows those
beautiful words “Hosanna, hosanna,
hosanna?” he asked. The smallest
youngster in the class piped up.
“Susannah, Susannah, Susannah, are you
coming out tonight?” he said. The gale
of laughter that ensued was joined in by
the parson. Then he looked solemn.
“Not so much laughing,” he admonished,
“or you’ll get me kicked out.”
* * * *
“El Verdugo”: “Gravelsnatcher” (B.
15/6/’49) has little knowledge of
German objurgation if he feels it neces-
sary to comment on the offensive impli-
cations of the word “lump.” It is not a
word to be used to Wachtmeisters or
other varieties of policemen or to
chorus-girls when they are on their dig-
nity. It means anything you like to put
into the inflection which accompanies it
—scoundrel, ruffian, skinflint, slimy fish,
miser, scamp, filthy human dishcloth,
white or black trash. When one applies
it to a lady one may expect what is com-
ing. It is so low that even the Com-
munists have adopted it as a term of
opprobrium which can be de-
pended on when every other
epithet fails. You will find it
even in the Marxist Glossary
which the authorities of Marx
House issue as an aid to
exhausted vocabularies :
“Lumpen-Proletariat: Prole-
tarians who are maintained by
the State or private charity,
criminals ..... the dangerous
class, the social scum, that
passively rotten mass thrown
off by the lowest of the old
society....l have good rea-
son to know the meaning of
it. In Vienna, more than 20
years ago, I was with a merry
and now very exalted member
of the British diplomatic ser-
vice on a railway-station when
he received some small slight from the
ticket-porter. Being well-warmed with
Danubian wine, the diplomat proceeded
to be so undiplomatic that I felt bound to
pacify him and lead him away. He had
called the ticket-porter everything he
could think of without noticeable effect
before I took him by the arm and re-
marked : “Machts nichts! ’lst nur
Lumpen!” meaning that the t.p. was
mere dross unworthy of diplomatic atten-
tion. I was promptly pinched for “in-
suiting the State”! .
* * * *
“L. de R.”: Apropos Melbourne’s
models (B. 15/6/’49). Neither Sydney
nor Melbourne seems to have any insti-
tution comparable with the Grande
Chaumee in Paris. There any artist can
go along at any time and see Venuses,
Bellonas and every other variety of the
female form suitable for classical or
modern subjects parading and make his
own choice. Among the models are some
of the most beautiful women in Paris,
but what they become pictorially in most
modern artists’ pictures would make one
think they had been recruited from the
absinthe and heroin joints of the worst
parts of the city. Guides usually end up
a tour of the sights by taking tourists
there, and in pre-war days it used to be
a common sight to see half a dozen Japs
standing with their eyes sticking out of
their heads at this vision of Western
pulchritude,
* * * *
“No Sirrah”: Before and during the
war there was much talk about the new
era of cheap, well-made articles that was
to open for us as a result of the applica-
tion of plastics to manufacture. My wife
went to buy a nail-brush the other day.
She got one with a wooden back for
ninepence, which, being only a 50 per
cent, increase on pre-war prices, wasn’t
too bad. But her fancy was taken by a
brush with a plastic back. Same size as
the wooden effort, the price was nine and
six! Similar comparisons can be made
all along the line —plastic beakers, cups,
plates, ash-trays, lamps, lampshades and
numerous other things—all vastly dearer
than those made from non-synthetic
materials. Not only that, but the
mortality of plastic beakers and so on
is higher than that of china or glassware.
There has been talk lately of a house
made of plastics. I’d say that such a
house in a normal three-bedroomed
design should cost somewhere around
£5OOO, and would crack right across if it
were leaned against.
* * sf: ♦
“Oliver Filter”; As an unfortunate
motorist, I am resigned to being hated
by pedestrians, bawled at by coppers and
condescendingly robbed by fellows whose
overalls and grease-stained visages can-
not conceal their infinite contempt for
anyone who brings a car to them for
servicing. I no longer wince when, every
time I buy a gallon petrol, Mr. Chifley
mulcts me for nearly a bob; and my
blood-pressure only rises a couple of
points when, in and around Sydney, I
and my car are shaken to. the very
marrow by the pits, furrows and humps
in the roads which that bob is supposed
to keep in order. But I’m afraid nothing
will abate the fury with which I ap-
proach the Sydney Harbor Bridge every
morning. Yesterday when I joined in,
the queue of cars waiting to cross
stretched for a mile back from the
approaches, and |5 minutes of a 20-
minute driVe to the city was taken up
with crossing the confounded bridge.
The trouble, of course, is the toil, a
barbaric practice whereby the Govern-
ment collects sixpences and shillings
from every car, causing a jam of traffic
for miles, with consequent wear and tear
on cars and drivers and a ridiculous
waste of the petrol which Mr. Chifley
seems so anxious to save. Being neither
a bridge nor traffic expert, I dunno what
the solution to it all is—abolish the toll,
perhaps, or issue season tickets, or blow
up the bridge, or shoot all motorists —
but if something isn’t done soon I’ll —
well, I hope the blessed bridge falls on
Mr. Chifley, or Mr. MfeGirr, or whoever
owns the thing.
THE PRESS.
“The countries of the world are steadily dividing
into those where the Press is regarded as an instru-
ment of government and those where it is regarded
as a safeguard against misgovemment.”— Colonel
Astor, President of Empire Press Union,
A clear distinction and a proposition
That seems effectively to hit the spot.
' The only question is in which condition
1 You would prefer to have it, is it not?
A servile instrument which any section
That’s won to power may arrogantly use,
Or as a sounding-board for the projection
Of all or any kinds of news and views?
Say, would you rather read a Press devoting
1 Its space to what authority decrees
Or one —I think it’s Junius I’m quoting—
To guard our hard-won rights and liberties,
Whatever sentiments it feels to hold to,
| Scorning evasions and disdaining blinks,
To put abroad, in short, not what it’s told to,
But, just as definitely, what it thinks.
In Russia, where the recognised criteria
For judging journalists no jabs allow
At Kremlin programmes, I suppose Siberia
| Would be our place of residence by now.
And, anywhere behind the Iron Curtain
Where they’ve so long extinguished freedom’s
1 lamps,
Pressmen who spoke their minds would soon,
it’s certain,
Be on their way to concentration camps.
Ah, well, you chaps who show your daily
paces
In print, be thankful, as indeed you may,
Your lines are cast in more enlightened places
Than many in the oldef world today.
Still, don’t forget our demagogues—no puzzle
’Twould be to name a few of them, I guess—
Ready enough to use the gag and muzzle,
If given half a chance, upon the Press.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON £
OSUIXIVA*
mm, ,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
JAXUL ’ WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
<{ electric usages
<c national” rotary duplicators
protecta’ self-registering tills
process engravings in one or
more colours
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
butter wraps
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
‘ JACKSUI”, BRISBANE
d
000
Tli«
oft*
<»»* 1
f,of» l r
life
for
rit e
515
What a pair to
have and to hold!
A famous Swan
pen, matched by a
Fyne-Poynt Pencil,
both made with the
precision of a fine watch.
Obviously, the perfect gift
that \yill keep gratitude
warm for a lifetime!
Presentation sets in black and
colours at 70/-, 82/6 and 92/6.
At all Jewellers, stationers and stores.
SWAN PEN
with Pencil
MABIE TODD & CO. (AUST.) PIT. LTD., 255 a GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
4/129
£
>m r w
¥3
n
&
m)
'V',-,
?s
m
ea
CLOTH**:
'-'H'f
s
it
1
i
i
H
v.
GUARANTEED, NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
“S.”: By refusing to publish the
160,000-word official biography of Kip-
ling which she commissioned the Earl of
Birkenhead to write in 1946, the poet’s
daughter, Mrs. Elsie Bambridge, has
placed Rudyard in an unexpected com-
pany. There are still gaps in Pepys’s
Diary where the names of some of his
acquaintances have been suppressed to
please their descendants ; there are revela-
tions by Boswell concerning both himself
and Dr. Johnson still unpublished in the
mass of Boswelliana recently discovered
in a chimney in Ireland and now being
sifted by the American purchaser; it is
only recently that the full story of Dickens
has been allowed to greet the daylight;
and now we have a Kipling mystery. No
explanation has been given for the sup-
pression of the Kipling MSS.; all that
we know is that the daughter “didn’t like
it” and that the Earl of Birkenhead was
paid a lump sum in lieu of royalties. I’d
have imagined that after being praised
by T. S. Eliot nothing could have shocked
Kipling’s gallant ghost any more, but per-
haps Mrs. Bambridge knows best.
* * * *
“Brolga”; Unk White’s depiction of
the sculptor trying to speed up production
with a pneumatic drill (B. 25/5/’49)
prompts me to remark that in the comae
of my job as a carrier I have learned to
regard sculptors as the hardiest of all
creative artists. I’ve humped small
reference libraries (in banana-cases) for
authors, laid canvases carefully in my
truck for artists, manhandled pianos for
key-ticklers and staggered up flights of
stairs with huge trunks for actors, and
have had little cause to remember the
jobs as anything out of the ordinary run
of work. But a, few months ago a bud-
ding Epstein engaged me to cart to the
Art Gallery about three hundredweight
of sandstone, chipped into the shape of
a nude woman. He helped me to carry
the masterpiece to and from the truck,
but I was foolish enough to grab the
heavy end, which was all curves and
afforded no handgrips. In the end the
lady slipped through my palms and landed
on my com. Since then I’ve advised all
acquaintances with artistic leanings to
keep away from sculpture as a form of
self-expression. It’s too much like hard
work.
* * *
“Nunk”: Difficulties involved in
owning an Irish wife, who once said to
visitors: “Do finish the cake; we got it
specially for .you ; it’s not the sort we’d
eat ourselves.” The other evening we
called on friends after a five-to-eight
picture-show and, by arrangement, they
“Henry! You've been using self-raising flour instead of soap-powder!"
had a light supper ready for us. As the
hostess placed heaped plates of savory
spaghetti before us, she hoped, as
hostesses will, that it would be sufficient.
My wife made bounteous “May
I never have less!” she said fervently. I
ventured to point out the trend of this
discourse, upon which she became prettily
confused ; said it was a saying of her
mother’s when she was a child. “Of
course,” she concluded, “what I was
trying to say was ‘May I never have
morel’ ”
* * * *
“Plop”: In a recent Hollywood mystery
film the hero was asked by a cigar-burner
of the homicide squad where he had
acquired the pistol he had presented to
the heroine, and with which somebody
had —in my opinion justly—shot her. “I
liberated it,” the hero said. “At
Normandy it was shells screaming....
dead Heine liberated it.” From re-
search I find that “liberated” is a term in
general use in the U.S. —where A.I.F.
officers would say “souvenired,” and o.rs.
“scrounged,” Americans, from privates to
four-star generals, “liberated” things—a
term, highfalutin as it is, which must be re-
garded as a good one. It conveys the
idea not of outright thievery, but of actu-
ally freeing articles, held captive against
their will, from some oppressing enemy.
Why, even the ghoulish cook- who
operated up New Britain way five years
ago, and who is said to have made sorties
of his own, thereby collecting a nice line
of gold-fillings in a cocoa-tin, might have
been excused if he had “liberated” them,
and not, as he so crudely put it, “knocked
’em orf.”
* * *
“Quire”: This was no flash from the
Death Is So Permanent department—
merely an item in the radio news-service
—but as a motorist it shook me. On the
night of the King’s Birthday holiday the
announcer reported that the day had seen
the first mass public outing since petrol-
rationing was outed. He concluded;
Ambulances report that traffic is heavier
than usual on all highways leading back
towards the city. *
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: In the midst of the down-
pour that deluged Sydney last Wednes-
day morn I was travelling from Vaucluse
to- the city in a friend’s car. We’d negoti-
ated the creeks and rivers in the valleys
about Double Bay and Edgecliff, bore
up against the tide flowing by Sydney
Stadium, poked the periscope up and
evaded the waterfalls in Bayswater-road,
and were shooting the rapids into
William-street when, happening to glance
across the driver, I saw part of the bed
of the stream rise slowly into the air.
Shouting “The sea’s coming through!” I
battened down the port scuttle and
reached for a lifebelt. But it was merely
a manhole cover being shot from its seat
like a cork from a bottle and followed
by a pillar of muddy water. Feeling as
the Jason mob must have felt after getting
through Scylla and Charybdis, we floated
down the valley and encountered a small
boy up to his thighs in the flood. “You’ll
be late for school,” we cried. “Ain’t
goin’,” he answered. “Mum says I got
a cold an’ gotta stay home.” And he
went gaily splashing and wading across
the lake.
* * * *
“Jasby”; My wife had decided on a
day’s shopping in town, so she gave the
nippers the welcome message, “You can
buy your lunches today.” “Whacko! ” re-
sponded our middling-size son, aged
seven. “I’ll get threepenn’orth of scallops
and threepenn’orth of chips.” His mother
had different ideas. “You’ll do nothing
of the sort,” she said. “Indigestible stuff
like that! And you wonder why I won’t
let you buy your lunch more often. Now,
you just take this money and buy your-
self an Oslo lunch. And don’t forget
the apple,” Middling-size went off
grumbling. Four hours later I was seated
with the spouse in a Sydney restaurant.
She was studying the menu. Suddenly
her eyes lit up. “Just what I feel like,”
she said excitedly. “Fried Tasmanian
scallops, tomato sauce and chipped pota-
toes.” She smacked her lips in a most
unladylike manner, turned to the waitress
and said, “Fried scallops, please.”
* * * ♦
“Lower Tops’l”; The day of the wind-
jammer has definitely gone, Captain
Bjorkfelt, master of the four-masted
barque Pamir, said a week or so ago,
before his vessel cleared Port Victoria
(S.A.), four days ahead of the barque
Passat, for the U.K. The two vessels are
the last deepwater sailers in commission,
and will probably be the last square-
riggers to carry Australian grain around
the Cape Horn route. With the high price
of sailcloth, hemp and ship-docking, the
captain said that the three “grain ships”
last year—Passat, Viking and Lawhill—
lost thousands. Pamir and Passat, which
are manned this year largely by Maori-
land and Australian crews, will be offered
for sale on reaching Falmouth. Passat
advertised for passengers at £2OO the trip
—she took three.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: A Perth man ob-
tained a permit to erect a feed-shed with
an iron roof and asbestos walls. He
bought the timber and iron, but was faced
with a long wait for the asbestos when
the carpenter had a brainwave. Roofing-
tiles are not controlled, so why not roof
with them and* use the iron for walls?
The shed went up that way, and looked
good to everybody except the Housing
Commission, which secured a conviction
and a tenner fine. The chap is still trying
to work it out. If he’d used the tiles for
the walls and the iron for the roof, or if
he’d roofed the shed and waited his turn
for asbestos, or if he’d used the iron on
the roof, thus making it secondhand, then
taken it down and used it for the walls,
he’d have been all right.
COMING EVENTS.
“New uniforms of grey tweed, based on the style
of the British Army battledress, will be issued
shortly to prisoners in N.S.W. jails.’’ 1
Well, in these days of soaring costs of raiment
No one should grudge inhabitants of quod,
Whose needs, like yours and mine, may well be
clamant,
Getting their frames upholstered free of pay-
ment,
Acquiring brand-new clobber on the nod.
When fittings-on are duly instituted
They’ll have no preferences anyway;
For in the case in point it’s not disputed
No color finds the wearer better suited
Than inconspicuous and sober grey.
Withal there’ll be a hint of something festive
And gay in those drab uniforms, I guess,
A lighter touch designed to prove arrestive,
But missing up to now—lapels suggestive
Of Britain’s memorable battledress:
Since fashion regularly introduces
New schemes to tit with ever-changing circs.,
Turns military modes to prison uses,
This innovation calls for no excuses.
The only test required is whether it works.
Think of the years that wasteful wars have
eaten
And [vide Solomon) what different looks
The world would wear, what hapless lives ’twould
sweeten,
If only swords to ploughshares could be beaten
And spears converted into pruning-hooks.
Who knows? But possibly the day is nearing
When miracles are wrought and dreams come
true.
Ben Chifley’s positive the skies are clearing,
And, back from cosmoplastic engineering
At U.N.0., Bert Evatt thinks so, too.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ABORIGINALITYES
“Old-timer”: In these days of fixed
prices for everything I doubt if it could
happen ; but in those days the old In-
vincible was beating slowly up-river
against a pretty strong current and had
just passed Mallee Cliffs when a rider
appeared, pushed his horse to the water’s
edge and yelled out something. Skipper
Hunt gave the wheel to a deckhand and
went out on the N.S.W. side of the boat
and yelled out “Eh?” “Kin y’ take me
t’ Swan Hill for fifty bob?” came the
hail from the horseman. “Don’t be
silly,” Hunt roared back, and took the
wheel again. The horseman pulled away
from the river and disappeared, only to
reappear a mile further up. “How about
it?” he yelled as the boat swung for the
point. “Three quid gets y’ there,” Hunt
roared back. The horseman yelled some-
thing that doubted both the generosity
and legitimacy of Hunt’s ancestors.
Hunt grinned a trifle and tugged the
whistle-cord. Horse and rider backed
off. “Must think I’m a benevolent
society,” Hunt grunted to the deckhand.
On a tight bend near the Minduk
boundary the skipper caught a glimpse
of a rider cantering along the high bank
and grinned again. As the Invincible
swung in beyond the bend the rider was
waiting. “Split the difference?” he cried.
“Where y’ from?” Hunt called. “I bin
chasin’ y’ from Mallee Cliffs,” was the
reply, “Chase me some more,” yelled
Hunt. The horseman again descended
to profanity and again left the river.
Hunt sighted him again on a mussel
bank. “Me horse is knocked up,” he
called plaintively. Hunt rang down for
dead slow and ordered the dinghy out.
“All right,” he cried. “Fifty bob. But
next time get a better horse.”
* * * *
“Blime”: It would be about as hard
to find a bushman who doesn’t know the
best way to make a fire as it would be
to locate an old prospector who doesn’t
know of a waiting fortune somewhere ;
and apparently Ted was true to type. He
“Six fathoms, sir—beg pardon, feet!”
watched critically as Mick bunched his
kindling and put a match to it, then, as
the sticks were added criss-cross Jfashion,
his patience gave out. “That’s no way
t’ make a fire,” he snorted. “Y’ll flatten
the thing doin’ that. Here, give us a
go at it. Y’ got t’ start with a back-log,
see? This’n’ll do. Then what y’ want
is t’ build y’r sticks on it, like this. Lets
the air under so she’ll draw.” “Yair?
Well, I don’t see how she’s goin’t’ bum
stuck up in the air like that,” growlfed
Mick. “It was a lot better before y’
come muckin’ around. Nobody can tell
me how t’ make a fire. Yours has got no
middle, Y’ never built it proper t’ start
off.” “Aw, middle be hanged! Y’ got
t’ keep it open,” Ted retorted, “No
fire’ll burn if it’s choked. There, see
that now,” he crowed as a tiny flame
flickered weakly. A moment later it sub-
sided again. Over their shoulders I eyed
the heap of sticks, and with a master
effort of self-control turned my back on
the pair. Maybe we’d get round to a
billy of tea some time, though how
either of the silly cows thought they
could make a fire either way beats me.
* * * *
G roper”: While it was grand to hear
“Kelms” (B. 11/5/ ’49) giving himself
three cheers for his prowess as a weather-
prophet, one should imagine him folding
up and stealing silently away as does the
usual prophet when his prognostications
come a flop. On the early June day on
which I write the wheatgrowing sections
of W.A. have just emerged from the driest
May ever remembered. Around Perth,
which has to be deluged usually before
the wheat areas receive a drop, the May
rainfall has been less than an inch —it is
usually five. Out around the farms only
the strenuous efforts of the railways keep
thousands of animals from perishing and
hundreds of humans from leaving farms
to take refuge in areas where there is at
least drinking-water. Passenger trains on
busy lines have been cancelled so as to
release engines for water-hauling* nearly
2,000,000ga1. a day being delivered to
the dry areas by rail. Of course, it is
not yet too late for an abundant rain to
redeem wheat prospects, but there are
many who are hoping that “Kelms” and
his ancient Stone-age preceptor will next
time foretell a very dry season so that
we may have a hope of getting it normally
wet.
* * * «
“Paspalum”: I have a theory that the
feathered family’s super-developed eye-
sight has led to their having an atrophied
sense of smell. Having seen it from a
distance I’ll forgive the crow for mistaking
a golf-ball for an egg, but surely, with
the first peck at the pill, the raven should
know that there’s np albumen in it. Tried
out a kookaburra with a toy mouse, and
let it run in his sight. Jacko dived and,
carrying it to a dead branch, proceeded,
between inquiring looks, to bang the
works out of it. Obviously his sniffer
was out of action. Thinking that a caged
bird might know better, I shaped a
thistle-leaf out of green paper and offered
it to a canary. Without a sniff at it
Rufus began tearing pieces off. If I ever
get near a few acres of water I’ll try
out the seafowl with a dummy fish.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: Like Seventyfiver I
have ever found comfort a matter of
adaptability (B. 18/5/’49), The snuggest
nights I ever spent were at a place about
50 miles north of Kalgoorlie. Living in
a 12ft. by 10ft. canvas humpy, with
opened-out kero.-tins as a roof and an
earthen floor, we were always gloriously
warm even when the temperature stood
only a couple of points above freezing;
when the mine manager himself com-
plained bitterly of inability to keep warm
of an evening, although he had a weather-
board house, lined with sheet-iron, and
with proper brick chimneys and fire-
places. Our unlined canvas humpy would
have been freezing, top, only that, having
an earth floor, we were able to bring in-
side a sgal. oil-drum transformed into a
firepot. With this in the middle of the
hut, glowing with charcoal, that hut was
so warm that it lulled us to sleep like
chloroform. Yes, we knew the danger
of charcoal fumes, but there were enough
holes m the roof, and a large enough gap
where the roof met the walls, to look
after that. And we wouldn’t have
swopped places with the manager.
* * * *
Bo”: A splash followed by a loud
yell seemed to indicate the worst, so Dad
rushed straight to the well. It was the
new bloke, who trod water while Dad
and another hand skulldragged him to
file “How did y’ come to fall
in?” asked Dad. “Well, it was like this,”
“Scram!”
said the luckless one patiently, after he
had peeled his dripping shirt off. “I was
going to use the two empty buckets, and
then I thought, no, they wouldn’t be
heavy enough. So I went back and filled
them with wet sand. I took a look at my
boots, but they didn’t seem just right, so
I went down to the shed and screwed
some heavy iron plates on to each heel.
I didn’t have my coat with me, otherwise
I could have filled the pockets with horse-
shoes, but luckily there was a roll of
number eight fencing-wire handy, so I
slung that over my shoulder and”
“What the hell’s all this gyver about?”
broke in Dad. “I asked y’ how y’ came
to fall down the well.” “Well, I’m just
telling you, aren’t I?” went on the new
bloke. “That’s what I was getting all
those things for, see —I thought if I hap-
pened to walk across that well-cover”—
here he pointed to that splintered article —
“it mightn’t be quite rotten enough to
let me go through, me being only a light
bloke, so I just got the extra weight to
make certain!”
* * * #
“Bolloong”: Watching my quarter-
bred Persian sneaking on the spags lined
up on the back fence, I got a shock when,
after a quick jump and slash with both
paws, puss slithered down the fence, a
bird in each fist. With one spag in his
mouth, the other held firmly by the claws,
the fummy hopped over to the garden,
where a hole was dug with the free paw.
Slamming in one bird, puss quickly
covered it with soil and then lay on it.
After a quick snack on the one still above
ground the reserve was disinterred for the
second course.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Mechanisa-
tion is even interfering with the role
played by sheepdogs in Australian life, so
much so that, in Victoria at any rate,
trained dogs are almost unprocurable.
Recently a grazier whose dogs were
poisoned just before shearing had to pay
£7O for a good paddock-worker at New-
market. The chief reason for the short-
age is that motor transport is driving the
drovers’ mobs—that nursery of so many
good sheepdogs—off the roads. Other
reasons are the killing of dogs by
cars, and during the war few people
had time to train pups. To my
mind, however, the cause is the
passing, with the big estates, of the old-
time stockmen of , the type of “Old-
timer’s” mates at Prill and Guthal. These
men’s lives were devoted to breeding and
breaking-in pups, and only those who
have seen these bushmen alone know the
assiduous training to which likely-looking
pups were subjected before they were
allowed to follow an old dog around the
woollies. In other years along the Murray
I knew boundary-riders who made a good
thing annually out of selling kelpies at
only a fiver a time.
* * * ♦
“Kelms”: I’d noticed a few rabbits up
on the hill, so I set some traps, and it was
just bad luck that the first two victims
were friends —a magpie and a bobtailed
goanna. They were both caught by a leg,
and as there seemed little I could do for
the go. I released him and watched him
waddle into the shade of a boulder. The
magpie was in a bad way. His leg was
almost severed, and he’d lost a lot of
blood. He was friendly and made no
attempt to peck as I examined the wound,
but it was obviously impossible to mend
the break, so I severed the remaining
tissues. He left my hand, took the air
capably if groggily, and I knew some
misgivings as he flew to rejoin his mates.
Domestic fowls will literally eat a
wounded fellow, and I feared for his
safety. That was some weeks ago. I
still see him occasionally, and he seems,
on the wing, none the worse for the loss
of a leg. The go.? That tough old
warrior, with a hide like a politician and
about as much imagination—his skeleton
lies beside the rock to the shadow o
which he’d crawled, beaten by an experi
ence from which he appeared to hav
suffered little harm.
* * * *
“Horseless H.”: Riding home, Bill the
Bachelor. stopped the mailman anc
inquired if he had left a parcel for him
at the house. “Yairs, left it in y’r sitting
room,” was the reply. “Whatcher talking
about?” demanded Bill. “I ain’t got one
of them things! ” “Well, I opened a door
and there were half a dozen hens sitting
inside,” replied the mailman.
* * * *
“Howie Wing”: This might settle the
shindy about stomach gases reducing
body-weight. When the floods came
down in ’26, me and Saltbush Sam'were
marooned at the farm homestead by the
rising water. As we had a small boat
we weren’t worried about ourselves, but
we reckoned we might lose the cows,
which were huddled up on a small and
rapidly-shrinking island. Weak for want
of tucker, they’d have no hope of swim-
ming for it, the way the current was
racing along. I see a cunning look come
into Sam’s eye, and after a bit he rows
across to the herd with a boatload of
radishes that we had stored in the shed.
When the hunters have gobbled up the
radishes, Sam doses each one with carb.
soda. Then he muzzles them, tightly, to
stop them from belching. Yair, you’ve
guessed it—we flew ’em out,
* * * *
“Solitude”; We were off our usual
beat and looking for strays. I knew
Seventyfiver hadn’t struck the deaf
Brownlea brothers in this region, nor
heard of their custom of pretending they
could hear, so, spotting one of them ap-
proaching, I left him to the usual in-
quiries. “ ’Day,” greeted the old bloke.
“Seen any strange cows round these parts
lately?” The bloke glanced at the sun.
“Dunno,” he answered, “but I’d say
about three o’clock.” Seventyfiver
stared after him stupidly, then came on.
Ten minutes later we struck another of
the brothers putting sheep through a
gate, and Seventyfiver repeated his query
about the strays. “Yair, straight up the
road about a mile. Y’ can’t miss it,”
the bloke replied. “Y’ll get a feed there,
but the beer’s off.” The old cove looked
bewildered, rubbed his forehead and we
continued. It was about half a mile on
we struck the third Brownlea; he was
feeling in a log by the roadside, and as
we drew near I pulled discreetly aside to
inspect my nag’s hoof. Seventyfiver
tried again. “ ’Day,” he said. “Seen any
strange cows round ’ere?” “Yair, some-
thin’ ought to be done about ’em,”
answered the bloke pulling out a rabbit.
“Flamin’ road’s lousy with ’em. That’s
the thirteenth I’ve got along here t’day.”
There was a dazed look on the old
bloke’s mug, and as we neared the town-
ship he stubbornly refused to see the
horseman approaching. The stranger
drew abreast and pulled up. “ ’Day,” he
called to Seventyfiver. “Seen any strange
cows round ’ere?” For a minute it
seemed the old bloke would fall to bits;
then he got his eyes back into place,
picked up his lower jaw and took a big
breath. “Plenty,” he exploded. “Place’s
lousy with ’em, an’ somethin’ ought t’
be done about it. Straight up the road
there, about a mile. Y’ can’t miss ’em.”
BOTTLES.
In twinkling, glittering heaps they lie,
A vacant, crystal throng
That turns the thoughts of passers-by
To roystering nights of song.
The wind within their parching throats
A mournful requiem drones;
No lips but those of wandering goats
Caress these fallen ones.
Yet Bacchus and his crew, who filled
With mirth old sylvan scenes,
Could scarce compete with those who swilled
The life from these “marines”!
Do phantoms of old topers, bent
Oh midnight errands queer,
Flit round in droves, to sniff the scent
Of eau-de-vie or beer?
Had they but voice what tales they’d tell
Of wonder and delight:
The horse that won the race, or fell,
The glorious bar-room fight.
Come now, my hearty bully-boys,
Away with care, and smile!
We’ll crack one more to taste its joys,
Then add it to the pile.
QUEENSLAND.
CARPENTARIA.


iniimi
For Accuracy
and Distinction
XAV/A/A
Watches
*
%
Jewelled
- Swiss Masterpieces
with NON-M4GNETJC
ESCAPEMENT
iAVMNA
WATCHES
Founded in 1852*. ,
L VILLERET, SUISSE
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARBEBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26e), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
TO NEW ZEALAND
Increased T. E. A. L. schedules now
provide 2,000 trans-Tasman air
passages every month. Return fare only
£63 (single £35.) You're there
few comfortable hours, saving
precious days for business
or holidays .
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED
In association with Q.E.A., 8.0.A.C. and B.C.P.A.
L
RESERVATIONS: QANTAS AND LEADING TRAVEL AGENTS
closet
Asmtßn° trltH
Xk y
mm
.
■
COMPLETE
3'
NS
\
WITH 2 BLADES
IN NEAT PLASTIC
V CASE >
0° ’5 O'etOC# sffMOW ’w/TU ®iS2£
—the razor with the heavy
surgical steel blade that
gives double the usual
number of shaves. No
drag, no pull, just a sweet,
smooth shave.
Obtainable everywhere .
“Minnamurra”; If any Ike Walton has
a shark parked under his boat, making it
hard to land a catch, try this on him.
Change to a stronger line and let the next
fish hooked have all the line he wants, and
play him a good 80 yards from the boat.
When thoroughly beaten, be sure he has
no strength left for a sudden turn, reef
him in hand-over-fist. Don’t stop to net
or gaff, push the side of the boat down
and swim him in. Noticed that the fish that
is allowed to fight right up to the boat
is the one that is easily taken. Naturally,
your catch has to pass the shark,
but you will beat him by the speed the
fish is pulled in with that stronger line.
Of course, if by chance the sea-lawyer
happens to swim into the boat after the
fish, just walk out and let him have the
place to himself.
* * * *
“CJE.”; Mum eyed the garden with a
frown. “If we could only get that old
brick well and the pump out of the middle
of it,” she sighed. “I just can’t make it
look decent with that thing stuck there.”
“Awright, it’s been dry a long time now,”
Dad answered, “and it won’t never be
no more use, so I might’s well fill it in
for y’ t ” With the job done. Mum planted
a grass plot and a row of shrubs and
spent hours carrying water to them. “It’s
a marvellous improvement, Dad,” she
smiled proudly. “With that neat path
1 made and the lawn, it looks almost like
a city garden, doesn’t it?” A''couple of
weeks later Mum was called to the city
and stayed with friends in rather a select
suburb. The large garden had her
fascinated, and roaming around it she was
joined by her hostess. “Do you like it?”
cooed the lady. “I have worked so hard
on it. This imitation of an old well is
a charming idea for the front lawn, don’t
you think? We managed to buy an old
xusty pump and have bricked it up to
look quite real. It gives the place such
a delightfully informal look; almost like
a country garden!”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: An abo.’s dog is
usually quoted as the lowest branch of
the canine breed, and I’m not holding
any brief for’it. But in many a black-
fellow’s camp I’ve stepped wide of the
vicious-looking mongs that snarled
savagely and against which an unarmed
man would have had no chance. All
breeds, from giant Alsatian-kangaroo-dog
crosses to mongs with more than a touch
of dingo, they resented my presence but
obeyed their master and tolerated his
children. I’ve known abo. stockmen, too,
who trained kelpies to unbelievable
standards, and who had a genuine love
of the animals. Strange, then, that the
abos of the pre-white era had not
mastered and trained the dingo. To tame
a full-grown dingo is impossible. He can
be starved or cowed into apparent sub-
mission, but a moment’s relaxation is
fatal. A dingo pup, however, is a differ-
ent proposition. He can be trained, and
will serve for a year or two before going
bush, which is probably as good as the
results of our European ancestors’ first
attempts to domesticate animals. A
bitch thus trained could conceivably pro-
duce a litter before reverting to nature,
and at least one of that litter might be
expected to grant increased allegiance to
the beings who tended it from birth.
“Would you think I was a sissy if I bought one?”
Perhaps the ease with which he gained a
living and the absence of enemies are
reasons for Binghi’s neglect to procure
himself an ally. Yet, with the coming
of whites, he took the opportunity to
surround himself with a collection in
which a dingo would be a gentleman.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Now that a picture is
to be made there, citizens who do their
travelling in front of a screen are look-
ing up maps to find Quorn, though that
will not be necessary for the thousands
of troops to whom the ladies of the little
town served a last homely meal before
the long trip north. For me, the region
recalls two bonnie wee birds. Away from
the hills, the road to Hawker rambles
over plains dotted with low, thorny
bushes, and atop of these you’ll find
golden sprites glinting in the sun —orange
chats. While not so brilliant as their
crimson cousins, I think they’re even
more beautiful; on the former the brown
wings are in flat contrast beside the vivid
red of head, breast and rump, but on the
other the orange breast pales to yellow
on throat and flank and merges with the
brown to make a more mellow overall
pattern. Follow these little orange cocks
• —the females are duller —and you’ll see
jenny- wrens scooting from low in the
same bushes ; they might be jennies of
any of the blue wrens till you catch
sight of a snowy midget streaking for
cover ahead of his harem. That’s the
male —brilliant deep blue, barring the
white wings for which he’s named; but
if you want to admire him closely take
good glasses, for in clear country where
kites and kestrels are poised above the
open flights of such a showy little fowl
are short, swift and seldom. Both the
chats, and the wrens are entirely insec-
tivorous, so it’s probably for the cover
and nesting sites that they stay close to
those sprawling, prickly clumps. Have
come across the same forbidding vege-
table east of the Darling, and again found
the same two birds still sharing its pro-
tection.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d finished a con-
tract, and the boss had taken us into
town to settle up. “You know,” he said
to Mat, as we sat round some pots of
beer in the local pub, “I don’t like t’ see
you blokes knockin’ round the country,
workin’ hard on one job,* then doin’ y’r
dough on a bender an’ humpin’ it till y’
find another. Here’s luck. Yair, y’
ought t’ settle downin’ make somethin’
of yourselves.” Mat emptied his pot.
“Settle down? What at?” “Well,” the
boss said, ordering refills, “y’ could get
a plant an’ open up in a district like this
as permanent contractors, or open a little
business or somethin’.” We paused for
refreshments ; then Mat said: “What, an’
be tied up an’ worried at night an’ all
that? Look here, if I don’t like a job
I can chuck it; if I don’t like a place I
can leave it; if I don’t like a bloke I
can tell him. Man had a fixed business
where would he be? Couldn’t go when
y’ liked or do what y’ liked or say what
y’ liked. Not f’r mine. I ain’t leavin’
meself open t’ that sort o’ thing.” The
boss thought it over. “What you mean,”
he said, “is that y’re scared of responsi-
bility. Y’re scared o’ havin’ things t’ do
an havin’ t’ pull y’r horns in. Y’ just
want t’ knock aroun’ an’ not give a
darn.” “Too right,” Mat agreed. “Well,
it’s just, as well everyone isn’t the same,”
the boss said, “or where would we be?”
“Well,” Mat retorted, “where would y’
be if everybody settled down like y’ said?
Where would y’ get blokes like us t’ do
the extra work about the place if blokes
like us settled down everywhere an’ never
knocked round any more?” The boss
studied that vision for a moment, then
called for more drinks.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: It’s unusual to find a
man with a deep affection for a cat —
generally females and felines make a good
double—but the old chap with whom I
had put up for the night obviously loved
the big yellow fummy. “There’s never
any snakes about with her here,” he
declared proudly. “Funny thing, she
won’t kill a snake where she finds it!
Always she catches ’em, brings ’em up
to the kitchen, drops ’em in front of you
and jumps back. When she’s satisfied
you’re lookin’ she stalks up, dabs at ’em
till they strike, and then —zip! —she’s got
her grip, and that’s the end. Once she
brought in a live deathadder and
plomped it right in the middle of the
couch where you’re sittin’. I was just
diving for the gun when she beat me to
it. Can’t understand why she don’t kill
’em first; but there it is, she never does.” -
Some hours later I awoke; the house
was in darkness and the creak of the.,
couch seemed unnaturally loud as I
over, trying to push the blankets under
my cold back. At that moment some-
thing heavy, yet yielding, landed squarely
on my stomach —just as the backlog in
the fireplace suddenly burnt through,
broke in halves, and, with a cascade of
sparks, momentarily flashed a light across
the room. All I saw was a pair of ghostly
eyes. For long seconds I froze in horror ;
then, with deep relief, I recognised the
outline of the cat. The feline chose that
moment to drop its burden—just a little
south of my chin. I stopped breathing.
Suddenly the limp body stirred! Never
before or since have I performed such a
lightning movement: the blanket engulfed
cat and captive at the same instant as my
feet hit the floor. I was out on the
verandah and still running when the old
chap’s voice overtook me: “Gripes, don’t
take any notice of Tiddles. She often
brings a bandicoot in!”
THE EUROS.
Strong with the strength of the hills
. The proud grey euros stand
A watchful moment on the rocks
Above an ancient land.
Though in this wild spur of the range
No man or sheep comes near
And none here could remember
The flying mulga spear,
Some fear of the ages whispers
When in the failing light
The euros pause above the rocks
By the waterholes at night.
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.


UNION
TRUSTS
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria,
Est. 1885
Simplifies Business and Estate Administration
ẃ
The future welfare of a business bequeathed as part
of an Estate may well depend on sound direction by
the Executors and Trustees. When expert know-
ledge is required the Union Trustee Company may;
be joined as Co-executor or Trustee.
A wide range of Services covering every require-
ment in Estate administration is permanently avail-
able—at moderate cost.
Phone, write or call for your complimentary copy
of the informative booklet, Important Facts Con?
cerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
333 Collin* St, Melbourne—2 O’Connell St, Sydney—39 B-402 Queen St., Brisbane
andat Albury, Townsville, Toowoombh and Rockhampton
Ihe only Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of
em ent in three States—Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland^
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co., Ltd.
Year Replacement,
ended Etc.,
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
8i p.c,
1942 .. 934,619 994,500 1,622,338 4,666,646
1943 .. 1,041,601 994,500 1,669,439 5,049,140
1944 .. 873,969 994,500 1,548,908 5,443,655
8 p.c.
3945 .. 881,136 936,000 1,494,044 6,793,701
1946 .. 887,298 936,000 1,445,342 6,130,835
8J p.c.
1947 ~ 1,163,473 994,500 1,614,315 6,447,849
9 p.c.
1948 .. 1,241,504 1,053,000 1,802,819 6,823,115
From inner reserves, £123,806 1,926,625 6,823,115
10i p.c.
1949 .. 1,206,762 1,228,500 1,904,887 9,121,945
The significance of the drop (£34,742) in
last term’s profit is that it emphasises
the inadequate official allowance for de-
preciation for taxation purposes, as well
as the fact that the Government is thus
removing capital from industry under
the guise of taxing income. In addition
to the ordinary allowance for deprecia-
tion (£465,580, up £30,926), the directors,
being prudent men, set aside an extra
£200,000 (nil in the previous term) to-
ward meeting the increased cost of re-
placements.
At the same time £123,806 was
transferred from inner reserves to
the p, and 1. account; it came partly
from provision against previous losses in
subsidiaries, now recouped, and partly
from provision for writing down assets.
Also, that the accounts may more
accurately reflect the cost of the co.’s
Fiji assets, the £1,625,000 by which the
latter were written down 25 years ago has
now been added to their book-value on
' the one hand and to the replacement and
depreciation reserves (up £2,298,830) on
the other. And the inner strength is still
substantial: a lot of assets have been
meanwhile bought and paid for out of
earnings and then from the same source
vigorously written down.
On the production side it was a record
year for the Australian sugar industry,
and the coming season promises to vie
with the one on whose heels it treads.
So the board had no hesitation in adding
a 1| p.c. bonus to the 9 p.c. div., making
10£ p.c. for the year, with the caution
that “it should not be construed as in-
dicating that the increased rate of distri-
bution will continue;”
However, the co. has such a
gilded history and is so well en-
trenched, financially and otherwise,
that the market sees the glow of the past
reflected into the future, and prices the
f.-p. £2O shares at £57 10s., ex final div.
and bonus (together 265.), as against
£6l ss. early in 1949 s The slip of 4.2 p.c.
in the price compares with a drop of
about 15 p.c. in the Sydney Stock Ex-
change index for industrial shares over
the same period. At £57 10s. the return
would be 3.6 p.c. on a 10£ p.c. distribu-
tion, or 3.1 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis.
In Australia the co is engaged mainly
in refining and selling all but a small
fraction (handled by Millaquin) of the
entire sugar output under Government
contract, in miffing on its own account
(it owns seven of the country’s 35 mills),
and in production of building materials
and industrial and other chemicals. The
two last-mentioned sections promise to be-
come important contributors to earnings
and, on the chemical side, to add some-
thing to the dollar pool as well. In Fiji
the co. mills all the cane produced, is a
large grower on its own account, and
owns a pineapple factory as well. There
is a refinery in New Zealand, and trade
earnings are supplemented by returns
from a fine wad of investments outside
the business.
The Australian public has enjoyed ex-
ceptional stability in the price of refined
sugar, which was lifted by, 121 p.c. at
end 1947, making it 4|d. a pound, same
as it was 25 years ago—the figure dropped
to 4d. during the slump of the 1930’5.
Compared with 1939, growing, mill-
ing,f transport, refining and distributing
costs have variously increased by up to
200 p.c. and more. Only last season’s
bountiful crop and consequent surplus
of some 426,000 tons of raws for sale on
a more remunerative export market,
where the price exceeds that obtained for
local sales, enables the industry to carry
on without a further lift ip the local
selling price of fines, which is less than
.in most other countries. Growers and
millers are getting less than before the
war for every ton or sugar sold locally,
and the refiner’s margin is practically un-
changed.
The financial structure of the big
undertaking and its continued growth are
shown in the following table:
1989. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £11,700,000 £11,700,000 £11.700,000
Sundry creditors 2,152,000 3,998,884 7,574,087
Suspense account 2,437,456 8,017,235 3,326,015
Employees’ funds 55,817 105,801 57,675
Refineries, mills,
etc 10,478,655 13,417,195 15,460,259
Steamers .. 271,877 276,316 285,191
Distilleries .. 822,678 585,747 619,598
Premises .. 228,202 229,626 233,759
Stocks.. .. 4,176,249 5,671,342 7,029,333
Book debts, etc. 415,295 2,682,152 2,388,931
Investments .. 8,252,177 4,627,458 4,554,058
Cash and de-
posits .. 3,022,574 534,533 8,815,480
The expansion of £3,575,203 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors and
of £3,280,947 in cash, etc., is related
mainly to operation of the sugar pool,
which the co. finances. The growth of
£1,357,991 in stocks reflects the season
and transport and other difficulties. All
but £673,830 of the addition to refineries,
mills, etc., was due to the writing-up of
book-values already referred to. The
more-or-less liquid surplus was £436,460
stronger at £6,830,025.
Gordon and Gotch (Australasia), Ltd.
r Dividends \
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
Mch., Profit. 8 p.c. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£> & £/ &
1942. 84,225 8000 14 p.c.= 70,000 6,225 265,778
To provident fund, £4192 .. .. 261,586
!943. 79,968 8000 IS p.c.= 65,000 ) 5,908 267,554
Patriotic donations, £lOOO )
1944.102,858 8000
Patriotic donations, £l3OO j 9,808 277,362
1945.106,031 8000 Hi p.e.= 87,500 10,531 287,893
1946.106,271 8000 18| „„ 93,750 4,521 292,414
1947.130,843 8000 20 ~,,100,000 22,843 315,257
From inner reserves, £14,000 ~ .. 329,258
From tax reserve, £70,000 .. .. 399,258
1948.158,651 8000 20 p.c.= 100,000 50,651 449,909
1949.162,417 8000 20 „ „ 100,000 54,417 504,326
Shareholders are reaping the benefits of
the sound policy, financial and otherwise,
that the board has pursued for the
last 30 years. Well-entrenched through-
out Australia and New Zealand in
the wholesale newsagency and adver-
tising business, the co. also imports Eng-
lish and American books and periodicals
and handles newsprint, stationery and
fancy-goods as well. War out of the
way, turnover bounded along in the
wake of inflation and an expanding
market for a growing volume of local
and imported publications, etc. Profits
shot up from £79,968 in 1943 to
£162,417 last term, an increase of 103
p.c., and the div. climbed from 13 p.c. to
20 p.c., with widening margins, over the
same period.
Last tefm sales of English and Aus-
tralian periodicals notched new records,
and more advertising space was sold.
But bulk importation of American
periodicals remained restricted, owing
to the dollar position, and printers
and processors reduced their demand for
paper, following a cut in price of Scan-
dinavian supplies in January last. How-
ever, the co.’s own paper stocks are
“valued on a conservative basis,” which
can be taken to mean that inner reserves
cushioned the bump there ; and the chair-
man says a return to more normal con-
ditions in the paper trade is not far
distant. The cp. also had to write down
the value of its New Zealand stocks by
an unstated amount following apprecia-
tion of the NvZ. pound to parity with
sterling. This, too, was done without
drawing upon disclosed reserves. The
co.’s N.Z. pfofits have been taken into
account in N.Z. currency ; any profit on
exchange is to be credited when the
money is transferred to Australia,
-Gross earnings were practically the
same as for the previous year (£941,314,
down £35), but exes. (£778,897) were
pulled back by £3BOl, despite the steady
rise in operating costs, aggravated by the
40-hour week. The net result (up £3766)
covered the pref. div. and 30.8 p.c. on
the half million of ord. capital as against
30.1, 24.5, 19.6, 19.6, 18.9 and 14.3 p.c.
back to 1943. Divs., steady at 20 p.c.
for the last three years, averaged 15.3
p.c. for the six years before that, and
12.6 p.c. for the five years to 1940.
The question is. Can the 20 p.c. be
maintained? There was a comfortable
margin between last year’s earnings and
distributions, and the board sums up the
immediate outlook in this way:
The general trend in all sections of the
co.’s business is that buyers are exercising
more discretion, and that goods of better
quality and more variety are available.
It is anticipated that generally prices will
fall; these factors notwithstanding, the
prospects for the next year are encouraging.
What the less-immediate future might
hold for the business is impossible to say
at the moment. Although the usual Aus-
tralian business indicators have not yet
thrown out alarming signals, the picture
is one of approaching deflation, and
business sentiment generally is ap-
prehensive. Much depends upon what
happens overseas and upon the course
of prices and costs.
Trimming its sails to the altering trade-
winds, the co. reduced stocks (down
£132,875) and book debts (down
£171,428) and strengthened cash, etc. (up
£214,515) last term:
Mar.,’39. Mar.,’47. Mar.,’4B. Mar.,’49.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Liabilities .. 139,421 362,980 418,051 446,084
Tax reserve .. 48,360 270,275 289,451 156,013
Freeholds ... 194,118 184,722 196,246 223,223
Leaseholds .. * 16,024 14,765 13,868 13,024
Plant, etc. . , 30,298 19,445 27,412 39,079
Stock.. .. 285,265 377,953 679,699 646,824
Book debts .. 398,953 612,218 796,149 624,721
Cash, invest-
ments, etc... 204,478 393,410 99,038 813,553
The year’s net addition to the book-value
of fixed assets was £38,810 (mainly on
account of the new Auckland warehouse)
and to the more-or-less liquid surplus
£15,617, raising it to £883,001. Other
new warehouses are to be built, when
possible, at Brisbane, Perth and Laun-
ceston.
The scrip is one of the few stocks that
have held firm in the market. At 90s. 3d.
the f.-p. pound ords., presently to be
split into ss. units, return 4.4 p.c. on a
20 p.c. div, basis. The prefs., which
carry a fixed cumulative 8 p.c., but no
other rights, seldom appear on the mar-
ket, Net tangible cover (book-value) is
365. lOd. per pound of paid capital.
Edwards Dunlop and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Apr., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£> £>£>£>
1944.. 38,200 10 p.c. = 37,596 604 354,460
Added contingencies reserve, £22,000.. 376,460
1945.. 38,674 10 p.c. = 37,596 1,078 877,538
Warehouse reserve, £36,000 .. .. 413,538
1946.. 39,500 10 p.c. = 37,596 1,904 415,442
Net addition reserves, £64,165 .. 479,607
1947.. 40,789 10 p.c. = 37,596 3,193 482,800
Share premiums, £109,030 .. .. 691,830
Unexplained addition, £13,000 .. 604,830
1948.. 48,100 10 p.c. 39,163 8,937 613,767
Share premiums, £lOO,OOO .. .. 713,767
Unexplained addition, £lOOO.. .. 714,767
1949.. 52,462 10 p.c. = 46,365 6,097 720,864
Apart from the high premium the Gov-
ernment lately forced the co. to charge
on new share-issues, shareholders in this
ably-handled vendor of paper and
printers’ requisites, etc., have nothing to
complain about. For the 15 years to
1930 they got a steady 10 p.c., sweetened
with £50,000 of bonus scrip and new
issues at par. The rate dropped to 5i p.c.
for the next two slump years, then
climbed by annual steps to 10 p.c. again
in 1939, and has remained steady since.
During 1932-33 £368,484 of capital was
returned, but it was not long (1937) be-
fore 53,709 new £1 shares were put out,
this time at a premium of 10s. each, to
help finance expanding trade. For
similar reasons, plus rising prices, 15,139
new shares, which carried a premium of
295. each, were issued in Dec., 1947, and
a further 100,000 were offered and quickly
taken at a premium of 20s. each shortly
before the close of last accounts. The
premiums make 10 p.c. worth no more
than 4.5 p.c, on the last £175,000 of
capital.
The new share and premium moneys,
and more besides, went mainly into
stocks and debtors’ balances, up £245,903
and £163,774 respectively last term:
1939. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £376,965 £375,965 £451,158 £551,168
Liabilities .. 109,650* 221,414 278,071 840,031
Tax reserve .. 135,766 155,942 160,000
Pinal div. .. 9,899 9,399 10,966 12,527
Freeholds .. 120,565 126,381 126,381 126,381
Stocks . . 137,258 344,987 511,879 757,782
Debtors .. 445,781 891,111 534,806 697,580
Cash, bonds
and shares 118,822 862,865 386,838 202,840
* Including: tax provision, etc.
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus was £207,100, raising
the figure to £1,145,644, over twice the
size of paid capital. The two items likely
to prove most troublesome are stocks and
debtors’ balances. The former are in at
“the lower of cost or replacement cost
and less reserves,” and the latter are
“adequately protected by securities
and/or reserves.”
Last term again saw a “large” expan-
sion of turnover, which cushioned the
bump from advancing costs. But during
the last half Scandinavian writing and
printing papers came forward in increased
volume at lower cost, and the local
market “became oversupplied at fairly
high prices.” The board, however, had
already valued stocks on a basis that
covered the drop in price without having
to draw on the “large” but undisclosed
reserve built up. Indeed, this reserve was
further strengthened by “a substantial
amount previously overprovided for taxa-
tion.”
So the board was able to write
profit £4362 better at 11.3 p.c. on average
capital as against 12.3, 10.8, 10.5 and
10.3 p.c, back to 1945. That was after
dropping £lOOO from somewhere into
visible accumulations, writing off the
year’s expenditure on plant, etc. (£9427)
and handing £lO,OOO to trustees of a non-
contributory staff fund. On capital as it
now stands 10 p.c. will call for £1652
more profit than was claimed last term,
and there will be £200,000 of new share
and premium money at work to earn it.
Because of the change in outlook,
which means that shareholders aren’t
likely to be asked for any more, and the
drop in share prices generally, the co.’s
scrip recently changed hands at 575.
(695. 6d. early in 1949), giving a return of
3.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis. Cover is
visibly 465. 2d, in net tangibles.
Standard-Waygood, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1942.. 14,175 10 p.c. = 12,327 1,848 8,052
1943.. 12,405 10 „ „ 12,327 78 8,130
1944.. 17,238 10 „ „ 12,327 4,911 13,041
1945.. 21,652 10 „ „ 12,327 9,325 22,866
1946.. 16,299 10 „ „ 12,327 3,972 26,338
1947.. 7,358 6 „ „ 6,164 1,194 27,532
1948.. 7,687 t „ „ 6,164 1,523 29,055
1949.. 10,460 7J „ „ 9,245 1,215 30,270
Anticipating a change in the economic
climate, and mindful of the co.’s pre-
war history as a profit-earner, the market
is doubtful as to what the future holds
for the business. So, despite the im-
provement in net earnings and the lift
in the div,, it now prices the f.-p. 13s. 4d.
shares at 12s. 6d, each as against 15s.
earlier in the year. The return at 12s, 6d,
is 8 p.c. so long as the 1% p.c. distribu-
tion continues. At 12s. 6d. the market
values the undertaking at £115,569, or
£37,975 less than its net tangible book-
value.
Last year was the best since defence
contracts ran out; more electric gener-
ators, motors, switch-gear, transformers
and general engineering work were turned
out, and the lift installation and main-
tenance section was more active, too.
Also, manufacture of a promising new
line, electric coalmining machinery, was
begun. What the three small subsidiaries


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
o. 0. GALE (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. O. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modem high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
Si
iii
ii
i
[Mill
Hill
m
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONLY RATES
Single Booms—
From 8/- per night
Double Booms —
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cabled and
Wireless:
"METROPOLEr
Sydney.
Telephones;
8W2061 (9 lines)
World-wide
BANKING
SERVICE
ẅ
Importers and exporters desiring
financial facilities for overseas trade
and travel will find them at any of
this Bank’s more than 300 branches.
These services include collection
of overseas payments, negotiation of
drawings under credits in favour of
exporters, establishment of Letters
of Credit for importers, buying and
selling of Foreign Exchange.
Enquiries are invited,
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne', 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
w
MEMORISE
WITH EASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual.
Send stamp for booklet.
Hey. W. Howlands
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E. 8, Tic.
■u^ oo M|fk
says B. S. Allen ? well-known building
contractor of Sussex St, 9 Sydney 9 TS.S.W .
I’VE been in building and construction all my life and I
think 1 know something about building, and insulating
a house. Enough so that I certainly would not accept
the builder’s mere statement: “Yes, this house is insulated.”
I’d want to know these five specific things. (1) How thick
is the insulation? (2) Is it the Batt type insulation? (3) Is
It fireproof? (4) Who is the manufacturer? (5) Are the walls
insulated as well as the roof?
I know these five points are important, that’s why I Rka
8.1. INSULATION always. It’s fireproof. It has full wall,
thickness. It gives full comfort on hot summer days and
nights as well as bitter winter days.
That’s why I’d always specify 8.1. Insulation for my
own home!
8.1
si>
'isolation
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY M 3038 • MELBOURNE MU 350*
BRISBANE B 3604 • ADELAIDE C 7257 • PERTH L 2107
(w
cl&k
■
a
mZ:.
Hint;
=3=
m 0
.JVV.V
ItM***'
am.
express
HE SECRET'S IN THE yjj
'MteaMteei nAwf* fy&oM*
blend
niMui
—Lift Inspection and Insurance,
Ltd.; Edmunds, Moir and Co.,
electrical engineers at New-
castle ; and Mann and Gable
Pty., manufacturers of electric
incubators —turned in, if any-
thing, isn’t ascertainable from
the published figures. The incu-
bator co. registered a loss in the
previous term, and one of the
team balanced on the wrong ride
last year. The £10,460 (up
£2773) of profit was 8.4 p.c. on
capital compared with 6.2 p.b.
for the previous term.
At the beginning of June
enough work was in hand to
keep plant busy for “some con-
siderable time,” and the co, has
made itself a generator set of
sufficient capacity to maintain
production during periods of
power-restriction and “black-
outs,” all of which augurs well
for the current term. On the
other hand costs are still rising,
and competition in the trade,
from both local and overseas
sources, promises to grow
steadily stronger. Much depends
upon how the new line of coal-
mining machinery turns out.
Here are balance - sheet
figures: —
1939. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital £123,273 £123,273 £123,273
Overdraft .. 8,322 36,524 23,260
Creditors*.. 12,177 21,259 26,928
Freeholds .. 111,659 36,925 35,897
Plant .. 53,352 19,049 20,804
Stocks .. 30,766 94,351 87,148
Shares subsids. 7,863 25,980 25,980
Sundry debtors 7,619 38,704 41,981
Cash .. 917 1,267 1,172
* Includes provision for taxation.
Including shares in subsidiaries,
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£106,087) was £3568 stronger.
Plant, the chief earning asset, is
reported in good condition.
There has been heavy trading
at advancing prices in the scrip
of Australian Development,
N.L. (paid capital £127,500 in
ss. shares paid to 4S. 3d. each),
an Adelaide co. in which Aus-
tralian Gold Development
(Melbourne) holds a one-third
interest or thereabouts. In the
last few weeks the price shot up
from 14s. to 245. 6d., following
disclosure of some very rich ore
in a winze on the 135 ft. level of
the co.’s Noble’s Nob mine,
which is on the same line of
load as the Eldorado at Ten-
nant Creek. The winze, down
30ft., got into a patch of high en-
richment (20oz. and over to the
ton) between 9ft. and 23ft.
Nothing is said about lateral ex-
tension. With the deepen-
ing of the winze more normal
values can be expected. A re-
cent crushing of 546 tons ore
yielded 15680 z. gold. Some
more high-grade pockets have
been exposed on the 86ft. level
and in No. 7 rise on the 135 ft.
level. All this is characteristic
of the field, where erratic gold-
distribution occurs in schistose
and dense hematite; the ore-
bodies do not lend themselves
to the conventional method of
block-out. Co. hopes to re-
cover enough gold from present
exposures to cover the balance
(£36,500) of the purchase price
of the mine before the option
expires in March, 1950. Vendor
has received £33,500; cash and
bullion in hand total £21,000. \
* * * *
At Paringa (W.A.) driving
and cross-cutting have disclosed
a lot of new ore averaging from
B.o4dwt. to 17.5dwt. over good
widths on the 200 ft. and 300 ft.
levels, and there have . been
promising developments in
5.33dwt. stuff on the 523 ft. levels
of the Croesus South and Block
14. For the four weeks to May
10 co. treated 6958 tons for
16160 z. gold, an average of
4.64dwt, which is o.6dwt. be-
low mine average. With costs
as they are, it is doubtful
whether there is much, if any,
profit for the co. in 4.64dwt.
ore. The maricet prices the Is.
stock units at 2s. Id. as against
3s. six months ago.


It must
he
Wmk
X
is -fa it
A. tenfold Hospital
Relieve
NASAL
SORENESS
due to colds
Don’t suffer—-when your nose feels
dried out, or sore, applv Cuticura
Ointment to aid quick relief.
Always keep a tin handy—good
for cuts, bruises and sores. One of
the famous trio—Cuticura Oint-
ment, Soap and Talcum Powder. 535
futicura
OINTMENT
Advantages of appointing
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
as your Executor
• EFFICIENT METHODS
Estate administration is the Company’s primary
purpose. Its 62 years’ experience and its efficient
methods ensure prompt, economical administration.
® GROUP JUDGMENT
Important matters are discussed in conference
by men of wide experience who have the fullest
current and financial information at their disposal.
• STANDING AND STABILITY
The capital and reserves of the Company,
amounting to £500,231, provide tangible security
for its integrity. Its uncalled-for capital of £BOO,OOO
is an additional safeguard.
Perpetual Trustee Company Limited may be
appointed as sole Executor —or jointly with a relative
or friend.
’Phone or write for the helpful booklet, “Your
Executor and Trustee”, that explains the Company’s
service—and its charges.
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
& OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
ETC.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £67,000,000 (the
average Estate being less than
£10,000).
» Directors:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.,
Chairman;
E. R. KNOX; ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.H.;
D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS.
Managing Director,
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
article. The big task ahead of
Australia is to retain these in-
dustrial advantages in the face
of deliberate Communist sabo-
tage—sabotage never acknow-
ledged by Socialist Govern-
ments.
Papuan Apinaipi
“Petro” gives a critical
opinion:
It has been stated in the Press that
an American geologist has chosen
sites for oil-drilling on a new section
of Papuan Apinaipi’s permit area
about 100 miles north-west of Port
Moresby. This, presumably, refers
to the Lesi structure, which was
mentioned in the prospectus issued
by the co. in February.
The Lesi structure was first exam-
ined in detail in December, 1920,
and January, 1921, by geologists of
the (then) Anglo-Persian Oil Co.
The geologists’ conclusions were that
the area was worthy of a test only
if production were obtained at Popo
and Jokea-Apinaipi. They pointed
out, also, that the initial drilling
horizon at Lesi must be at least 850
feet above the top of the “Lower
Group.” “Lower Group,” inci-
dentally, is the name they gave to the
shaley beds on which all the present
Australasian Petroleum Co.’s tests arc
located.
The opinions , expressed by the
Anglo-Persian geologists have been
confirmed by other experienced oil
geologists who have studied the area.
Advantages claimed in the Papuan
Apinaipi prospectus for the Lesi
structure are that, “except for Oiapu,
it is the largest, the most clearly and
completely revealed, the most uniform
structurally and it is also the greatest
distance from the known occurrence
of volcanic rocks.”
The advantage conferred by dis-
tance from known volcanic outcrops
is a doubtful one, and the type of
structure as revealed in the Anglo-
Persian report Offers many puzzling
features which cannot commend
themselves to most oil geologists.
It is speculative, also, as to whether
buried volcanics are not present at
Lesi. The surface beds there contain
abundant volcanic fragments, as was
noted in 1920, although these surface
beds are at least 1000 feet above any
strata in which volcanic rocks are
found in this part of Papua.
That Papuan Apinaipi does not like
volcanics is understandable as, for a
reason not yet publicly explained, the
co. located its Miami well within a
The Sharemarket
After recovering steadily for
nearly a fortnight, B.H.P. touch-
ing 50s. early last week, there
was a sudden relapse in Aus-
tralian sharemarkets following
reports of another slump on
Wall-street and weakness in
London. B.H.P. dropped to
48s. 3d., and many other issues
reacted. Tooth shares selling
down to 735. Felt and Textiles
ords., previously exceptionally
weak, withstood the movement,
and actually continued to im-
prove, reaching 41s. 9d., after
touching 375. 6d. in May. The
market took the news of the D.
Mitchell merger (with several
other N.S.W. grocery concerns)
without excitement, the shares
remaining about 10s. 9d.
Uncertainty is abroad in the
world today. Conflicting reports
have come to Australia about
the position in the United
States, and Britain is meeting
with harder competition in its
overseas trading. In Australia
the Socialists have never loved
investors, who have had the
worst end of the economic stick
over the past 10 years. Under
price-control and confiscatory
taxation the shareholder has not
been able to hold his own with
inflation ; but many still hope to.
The world appears to be in
for a change from a seller’s to
something resembling a buyer’s
market—or, perhaps, more cor-
rectly, a state where buyers and
sellers will meet each other on
terms more equal than we have
seen for almost 10 years. But
concerns like B.H.P. in particu-
lar have a great and unsatisfied
demand ahead of them still for
their output; and B.H.P. has
the advantage of being the
world’s most efficient producer
of basic steel. Even in wire-
netting and similar processed
steel products the B.H.P. group
are underselling the imported
volcanic zone which it did not drill
out of. Not unnaturally, Miauri
produced no oil.
That, however, seems a poor reason
for abandoning operations on the
Oiapu structure, which still remains
completely untested at depth and on
which the company has been working
since 1938. At Lesi the co. faces the
handicap of having to drill wells at
least 1000 feet deeper than at Oiapu
to strike whatever sand it seeks, and
that on what is a second-best
structure.
Exchange and Trade
Dollar pressure on sterling is
raising hopes in N.Z. that a
move in the Australian pound
isn’t a great way off. Maori-
landers don’t relish the present
set-up, which tips trans-Tasman
trade heavily against them,
keeps them waiting for profit
on some millions of more-or-
“Could I interest you chaps in a personal loan?”
less “hot money” and generally
makes their currency position
anything but comfortable. But
there’s uneasiness over hints
heard lately that P.M. Chifley
might get tough with “hot-
money” holders by locking the
door against them if Australia
bounds back to par with sterl-
ing, or somewhere near it, in
the threatened dance of cur-
rencies.
They’re puzzled as to whether
to take their funds out now and
forget about the profit, which
they.might not be allowed to
touch, anyway, or to take the
long view and wait to collect
the profit, if it’s still there, when
currencies are free again. They
figure out that as Australia
hasn’t angled for the “hot
money” (over £6O million by a
pre-Easter estimate), and is
likely to put its own interests
first in dealing with its ow;n
pound, the odds are that some
kind of a ban is almost certain
to be imposed against any
sudden large-scale flight of capi-
tal if a fall in sterling presents
the Commonwealth with the op-
portunity it has waited for to
take its stand on the dollar. No
one in N.Z. or elsewhere should
be in doubt about Australia’s
determination not to retreat
from hard currency.
Trans-Tasman trade, always
more or less lopsided, with the
balance permanently in Aus-
tralia’s favor, has been pushed
further off plumb since M.L.’s
“new-look” pound took the
profit out of it for M.L. fish,
crockery and a group of other
exports, and spurred N.Z.
traders to buy more Australian
goods; but import-control has
held the reins against too big
a swing. Steel and wheat head
Australian shipments to N.Z.,
and woodpulp is making a
strong bid in the return flow,
but isn’t finding the going easy.
N.Z. imports all round are
throttled down to buttress Lon?
don funds, which haven’t picked
up in proportion to buoyant ex-
ports. In earlier post-war years
the Labor-Socialist Govern-
ment was giving every en-
couragement to John Bull to set
up and equip branch factories in
N.Z., but lately it has had cold
feet over this expansion because
new manufacturers must com-
pete with those already on the
job for materials, plant, factory
space and labor. M.L. will have
to be careful in dealings with
Britain, which is becoming
touchy over moves which tend
to knock its trade.
Sugar and Defence
Swayed by an increased popu-
lation and a consequent bigger
demand, a “favorable overseas
market,” introduction of irriga-
tion and new cane varieties and
he need for more settlement
along the Queensland coast,’ the
Hanlon Government—no doubt
alter consulting its fellow-
Socialists at Canberra—has let
its head go and approved a new
sugar “peak” tonnage of 929,000
tons, which is 137,000 tons over
the 1939 peak. Last year sugar
production was 179,956 tons
above the 1939 peak.
This peak system began in
1929. Under it the mills get
the full pool price up to the
amounts of sugar allocated to
them, and from their quota they
are required to issue quotas to
their growers. The pool price
is arrived at by pooling the Aus-
tralian and export prices within
certain tonnage limits. A mill
producing more than its peak
has the surplus acquired by the
Queensland Sugar Board at
arranged prices—usually at ex-
port parity. In 1939 the advent
of the International Sugar
Agreement caused a limitation
of the pool to 737,000 tons'.
Both I.S.A. and peaks became
war casualties, and yearly peaks
were fixed by proclamation.
Since existing mills have
about reached the limit of their
crushing capacity, future expan-
sion of sugar-growing means
building new mills, and the
Hanlon Government is to “in-
vestigate along these lines.” It
also means, though nobody said
so, a decided improvement in
turn-round of sugar ships.
Meantime “N.Q. Register”
thinks N.Q. sugar areas haven’t
got a fair go in new mill allo-
cations, and points out that de-
fence considerations alone
should have allowed northern
mills bigger quotas.
Federal Government revenue
for the first 11 months of 1948-
49 was £469.7 million, compared
with an estimate for the whole
year of £509.5 million. If May
revenue (£62.5 million) is re-
peated in June actual tax and
other income for the year will
be over £530 million. June
revenue should really be higher
than that for May.


Missing Friend.
TOM MUIR—WiII THOMAS MUIR, son
of the late James B. Muir, Jeweller, who
resided at Cathcart, Glasgow, kindly com-
municate with RUSSELL & DUNCAN,
Solicitors, 105 St. Vincent Street,
Glasgow, Scotland.
<lhe
Union Bank
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
( Incorporated in England )
methods
and a century of experience
have resu ited in an organisation
providing every modern
hanh
my
service •
of
*>Y.
m
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
urn
m
'-•s
V
are sometimes seen
Thrown upon the movie screen.
Catch their message ere they go.
Shining in the spotlight glow.
Magic words of hope for you
When your frame is racked by "flu”.
What they tell will health assure >s
"First-aid Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Keep Coughs, Colds at Bay
Woods 9 Great Peppermint Cnw)
UmeAtpwwt
Sedan
A uAt/vaJUnl
Own an Anglia! It costs less to buy and very little to run.
It will carry four big grown-ups in style. It’s the smartest
3 h.p. car on the road. It’s fully equipped. It’s easy to drive
and easy to park. And it’s backed by Ford reliability
and service. Ask your Ford Dealer now about Anglia.
For better living
at a price
you can afford.
Cltuf&aSkp.
Place your order with your local Ford Distributor or Dealer.
FORD MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. {INC. M VIC.) RFC. OFFICE: CKLONG. VIC.
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
Yachts with plopping white
sails and quivering burgees
aren’t a familiar sight nowadays
in Central London. Nor is the
Thames, with its heavy barge
traffic and wide meandering, the
happiest of regatta courses.
That stretch of river between
Hammersmith and Duke’s
Meadows, famous for its con-
nection with the Oxford and
Cambridge boatrace, is less well-
known, even locally, for its sail-
ing associations. Few Londoners
know that, for 60 years, yacht-
ing enthusiasts of the Ranelagh
Sailing Club have arranged their
leisure according to tidal tables
and have measured their patience
against the vagaries of the wind,
fickle in its extremities.
On a recent Sunday, to the de-
light of hundreds of onlookers,
some 60 12-footers sailed down
river to celebrate their club’s
diamond jubilee. They held their
regatta on King’s Reach, the
stretch of water between
Waterloo and Blackfriars
bridges, beneath the windows of
Somerset House, King’s College
and the badly-damaged Temple,
in the very shadow of St.
Paul’s. The sun was out and,
except for a few sudden disturb-
ing gusts, the sou’westerly breeze
was steady, strong and ideally
right. If scarcely an event of
national significance, the regatta,
by its charming incongruity, was
just that kind of surprise that
adds to the fascination of the
London scene.
The same morning Princess
Elizabeth unveiled the Royal
Artillery war memorial to the
29,000 men who lost their lives
between 1939 and 1945. This
memorial is an addition to the
familiar monument at Hyde
Park Comer, and consists of a
new flight of stone steps with a
stone platform and three in-
scribed bronze panels.
There hasn’t been a nation-
wide rush to erect monuments
anywhere and everywhere,
as there was after the Kaiser’s
war. The present trend of
thought seems to be that some-
thing more practical than mere
statuary is needed. The gunners
are of this opinion, too, for out
of the £298,000 that was sub-
scribed less than £l5OO has
been spent; the rest is in-
tended to be used for the erec-
tion of houses for the disabled
throughout the United Kingdom.
Railways
Since nationalisation, the rail-
ways have attracted a good deal
of notice, and for the most part
not to their advantage. The
trader finds that he can
send his goods cheaper by
road - transport and also that
he gets better, more considerate,
service; and the family-man, if
he hasn’t had the foresight to
book his holiday tickets by
road-coach months beforehand,
must pay nearly double for them
at the railway-station. It is
known that the railways are con-
cerned about this loss of custom.
They reintroduced excursion
trains and seat-reservations with
an ostentatious show of gener-
osity that certainly didn’t de-
ceive the long-suffering pas-
sengers.
Ostensibly because of an
effort to improve the service by
putting back long-distance non-
stop trains on the time-table, the
nation has had to endure, with
growing impatience, a distressing
strike. Ninety-six locomotive-
drivers and firemen out of 5430
objected to “lodging - turns”
(sleeping away from home) one
night a week. That’s how it
began. The men affirm that
they “don’t mind” sleeping out,
but want better accommodation.
There appears to be wide dis-
content among railway em-
ployees. With rising costs, they
find life very much harder, and
the general public have felt sym-
pathetic towards them; but it is
sympathy in common, for the
very reason that most people in
Great Britain have to try to
cope with a rising cost of living.
As the strike spread so did this
sympathy harden into disgust.
England is not a country which
in the past has allowed one
section of the community to
hold the rest to ransom. Gov-
ernments have acted quickly and
firmly, as they should. But four
years of Labor rule seem to have
encouraged the notion that the
postal services are run for the
benefit of the postal workers, the
mines for the miners and the
railways for a few thousand sec-
tional workers.
Hurried Health
Mr. Aneurin Bevan, who for
political reasons forced the
National Health Act on to the
Statute Book with such indecent
haste a year ago, now appears in
a less munificent light: not as
the crusading benefactor, but as
the now-do-as-I-tell-you purse-
tightener.
The Pharmaceutical Union has
circularised all its members to
the effect that they must cut the
cost of medicine-bottles and
other containers (at present
£1,500,000 a year) by one-half,
or else. The hospitals have
been ordered to reduce expendi-
ture by 10 per cent., but “not
at the expense of the patients,”
of whom some 50,000 are wait-
ing for beds. Dentists are revolt-
ing against proposals to reduce
their considerable earnings, and
are drifting back into private
practice.
Of doctoring, the best and
fairest that can be said is that
anyone really ill and in hospital
gets the finest attention, true to
well - established professional
practice and conscience. But the
general practitioner, once a
family friend and confidant, is
like a solitary m.o, in an Army
camp of 4000. One example
from a London suburb will
illustrate. The doctor, who is
young and strong, takes his car
out of the garage and parks it
outside his surgery at 8.20 a.m.
By that time perhaps two people
are standing outside. Ten
minutes later he opens his
surgery, admitting about four
persons to his waiting-room. At
nine o’clock they begin to arrive
in twos and threes. When he has
deftly sounded a heart or a chest,
examined a throat, written out a
certificate for this or that or
filled up a card or a form and
dispatched the patient, the doctor
sounds a buzzer; the next
patient doubles into his room
and everybody moves up one.
And there isn’t a long interval
between buzzes. At 10 a.m. he
jumps into his car and attends
to his carefully-planned visits.
After a quick lunch he sets off
again at 2.15 p.m. and returns
for another surgery at 5 p.m.
With spectacles, you make an
appointment for an examination
(about three weeks in advance),
wait another month for the form
to be approved by the Ministry,
pay another visit to the oculist
and then, after a further four to
six months, your spectacles
should be ready.
There is little hope of any sub-
stantial improvement in this
state of affairs until the profes-
sions concerned and the Minister
of Health are working together
with understanding and mutual
respect. That can hardly be ex-
pected while Mr. Bevan is the
Minister.
Witchery to Wedlock
Successes of the West End
aren’t necessarily of literary
value. The sufficiently sound
reason that they must earn their
own living, in the face of
enormous overheads and the
chanciness of popular taste, com-
pels managements to temper
their judgment with caution. In
recent years several plays of
artistic quality but limited en-
tertainment appeal have gradu-
ated from the little theatres only
to founder after undeservedly
short runs.
One English poet-dramatist,
Christopher Fry, although well
known in repertory circles
and at the Edinburgh and Can-
terbury festivals, has only lately
reached the “commercial”
theatre. His “The Lady’s Not
For Burning” (Globe Theatre)
brings to Shaftesbury-avenue a
play that is refreshingly “dif-
ferent.” There is wit, honest
open-hearted acting and an in-
eluctable charm of its own that
lingers for days, like a sweet
memory.
The dialogue has neither
rhyme nor metre and mercifully
lacks the stilted contrivances of
bad verse; but it has poetry,
chiefly in the vividness of its
imagery. Mr, Fry’s vocabulary
seems as extensive as his imagi-
nation seems limitless; yet he
rarely allows his pros© to run
mad. And —rare quality among
poets—he has a lively sense of
fun and a sure theatrical touch,
which, for example, saves his
second act from petering out.
The plot is slight but enough
for its purpose. In the 14th
century “more or less or exactly”
a world-weary soldier (John
Gielgud) tries to get himself
hanged by confessing to murders
that he has not committed. A
village girl (Pamela Brown) is
suspected of witchcraft and be-
comes a fellow-prisoner. Each
ultimately finds a new zest in life
by falling in love with the other ;
and the rag-and-bone man, said
to have been murdered by the
one and turned into a dog by
the other, appears to make all
end well.
The author hasn’t troubled to
relate contemporary events or
language to his characters, and
he is sublimely unconcerned
about anachronisms. Nothing
could matter less. With the most
uniformly distinguished cast that
has been seen in the West End
for years and scenery and
costumes by Oliver Messel, Mr.
Fry can be compared to a
neglected composer who has an
orchestra of talented soloists to
interpret his work selflessly and
sincerely. And the real star is
his own music.


s£ass
ESTA^ ES
t:rx3Si ,_ ctttfc M
tiiusrEi
-OMTAS*
Facts you should know in the
interests of your Estate your Dependants. ..
The informative booklet, “Trust Estates and Their Management,’’
has been compiled to acquaint you with the facts and problems
connected with choosing your Executor and Trustee. This is a
matter which every prudent man must consider at some time. It
is a decision which vitally affects the welfare of your dependants,
and is therefore one about which every person should be fully
informed.
Write to-day for your copy of this free booklet ... or call and
discuss the matter personally with one of our Executive Officers.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson. 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M.,
FJI.A.CJS. J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle
Sub. Manager: S. V. White
Secretary: F. R. Garland
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. »f N.S.W. LID.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
ET.tt.ia
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
THE “MIGHTY SOVIET” HOAX.
The confident prophecy attri-
buted to America’s European
Recovery Programme Ambas-
sador Harriman by “Christian
Science Monitor,” that “in five
or 10 years from now the West
will be wondering why it was
ever so worried about the Rus-
sians,” could well have been
based on real knowledge of
Russian internal conditions.
And that could have been
gathered, not from any dis-
gruntled expatriates, but from
official Soviet sources, such as
the much-boomed Gosplan, two
sections of which—food and
housing—have been examined in
a London “Times” letter;
“According to the law for the
Five - Year Plan. 1946 - 50,
adopted by the Supreme Soviet
on March 18, 1946, and known
as the Gosplan, the following
targets were set for the produc-
tion of foodstuffs for the’ year
1950; meat, 1,300,000 tons;
butter, 275,000 tons; sugar,
2.400.000 tons. The actual con-
sumption of these foodstuffs in
Great Britain during the
austerity year 1948 was in round
figures; meat, 1,900,000 tons;
butter, 260,000 tons; sugar,
2.080.000 tons. Considering that
the population of Soviet Russia
is about three and a half times
larger than that of Britain, their
prospects for next year would
seem to be considerably more
grim than the 1948 pattern of
British austerity.
“As with food, so with hous-
ing, The Gosplan sets the target
for housing during the five years
of 1946-50 at ‘72,400,000 square
metres of living space,’ which
translated into the more familiar
British unit of a five-roomed
house means that Soviet Russia
hopes to build annually about
120.000 five - roomed houses,
against about 240,000 such
houses actually being built in
Britain. Again, considering the
size of Russian population, her
housing target is at least eight
times less ambitious than that
actually achieved in Britain, in
spite of acute shortages of raw
materials, which Russia pretends
to have in such abundance.
“One is forced to the con-
clusion that the Iron Curtain
serves to conceal the actual
misery of the Russian people, in
the face of which the toughness
of Soviet foreign policy acquires
an oddly incongruous look.”
A more detailed, documented
analysis has appeared in the
“Atlantic Monthly,” in which
economist - soldier - author - dip-
lomat member of the House of
Commons Lieut.-Col. J. B
White declares that “To get an
accurate picture of the state of
Soviet industry one has to probe
much deeper than the Gosplan
report, to take a thousand and
one items of information, piec-
ing them together like a giant
jigsaw puzzle, rejecting always
the unreliable and undocu-
mented story.”
The picture thus constructed
“indicates that in spite of con-
siderable increases in production
and substantial progress in re-
pairing war damage, there are
five serious and major weak-
nesses in Soviet industry today.”
As the writer lists them, those
weaknesses are:
I ; —A very real production
crisis in light industry—textiles,
consumers’ goods and furniture.
2. —A waste of material that
would appal any industry under
capitalist management.
3. —Faulty technical planning
leading to widespread wastage of
man-hours.
4. —Bad co-ordination be-
tween the different industrial
units making the component
parts of locomotives, tractors
and other equipment.
5. —A wages-production-prices
system that must lead inevitably
to the physical and mental ex-
haustion of the labor force,
especially because forced labor
forms an appreciable portion of
it.
Giving in every case the dates
and the speakers, the writer lists
the bitter complaints aired last
December about the bad quality
of consumers’ goods. One
executive, for instance, told a
meeting of the Moscow Council
of Workers’ Deputies that in the
first 10 months of 1948 Moscow’s
light industries lost about
5,000,000 roubles and the textile
industry about 4,000,000 roubles
on account of bad quality and
defective goods. At the same
meeting one of the deputies said
that, after an analysis of con-
sumer demand, “470 varieties
had been withdrawn from pro-
duction.”
“Pravda,” on December 10,
1948, said it was an “absurd and
ridiculous situation” that goods
worth millions of roubles should
remain in the stores because
nobody would buy them. It
warned directors they would
“undoubtedly be reminded of
the Soviet laws providing for
the severe punishment of those
responsible for poor-quality
production.”
“They were reminded!” com-
ments White and without
delay. On December 15 the
Prosecutor’s Office of the
Ministry of State Security issued
the report of its speedy investi-
gating, including the following
items:
“Tobacco Factory, Saratov. —
Cigarettes found to contain dirt,
stalk and rubbish. Badly filled,
often tom owing to faulty
machinery. In six months this
factory alone produced over 1.4
million packets of faulty and
bad-quality cigarettes. Director
V. K, Ovchinsky sentenced to
seven years’ imprisonment;
Chief Engineer P. V. Kireyev
and Chief of Technical Control
Department V. I. Podshivalin,
five years each.
“Mechanical Foundry Works,
Leningrad. —Systematic produc-
tion of poor-quality goods.
Chisels sent to other factories
were found to be unusable. Ad-
justable spanners sent out with
immovable screws and loose
heads. No proper precision tools
or blueprints had been issued to
the shops. Director V,. B.
Garibyan and Chief Engineer
V. A. Glinchikov both sen-
tenced to five years’ ‘deprivation
of liberty.’
“Sewing Factory of the Frunze
District Industrial Combine,
Moscow. —Continuous output of
men’s clothes that proved to be
unwearable. Director Tarachkov
sentenced to five years’ imprison-
ment.
“Coal Mine. No. 4 Fit, Katy-
kovsky District, Stalin Pro-
vince.—Production of coal con-
taining a high percentage of
slate. Manager Anisimov sen-
tenced to five years’ imprison-
ment.
“Makeyevka Industrial Com-
bine, Stalin Province. —Out of
7770 cultivator-wheels delivered
to the Mariupol metal-products
factory, all save 217 were
defective. Chief Engineer
Chvdakov and Chief of the
Technical Control Department
-N.Y. “Daily Minor"
THE FEEDER—AND THE FED!
Radchenko, each five years’ im-
prisonment.”
Another Soviet publication,
“Trud” (September 10, 1948), re-
ported on file industrial town of
Stalino;
“We saw in the shops locally-
made locks which do not lock,
unpainted beds which have al-
ready rusted, and horrible iron’
goods of no use to anybody.”
Of spoons and forks it said;
“The quality is beneath criti-
cism.”
After listing other illuminating
reports on the same line, White
comments that “The waste of
materials through bad planning
and faulty production would not
be tolerated for a week in
American or British industry.”
One typical indication of the
waste: In January, 1948, the
Ministry of Light Industry in-
stituted a “stop-waste” drive in
Sverdlovsk (one of the new post-
war areas of special industrial
development). By the end of
September, material had been
saved sufficient to manufacture
an additional 392,000 pairs of
boots, 168,000 additional knitted
garments and tens of thousands
of additional coats and suits.
By using British methods of
production (to say nothing of
American) the output of many
of the plants could. White
asserts, he obtained with one-
third fewer workers. “The back-
wardness of many Soviet enter-
prises, in comparison with
American and West-European
standards, is indicated by the
pride with which they announce
proposed improvements that
have been regarded as a matter
of course for many, years in
capitalist industry.”
As for the brawny cherubim
of the “workers’ paradise,”
“such recovery as has been
achieved since 1945 has been at
the price of driving the Russian
workers as they have never been
driven before under the Com-
munist State. The Soviet plan
for extracting the maximum out-
put from the individual is per-
fectly simple—and quite in-,
human. Each worker is set a
‘norm,’ the amount of work he
or she must do in the working
day to secure the minimum
wage. Prices of food and essen-
tial articles are fixed at a level
which ensures that it is virtually
impossible to maintain life on
the minimum wage. It is there-
fore necessary for the worker to
exceed the norm, not once or
twice a week, but every day, all
the year. If it is desired to in-
crease output still further the
norm is upgraded or prices of
the essentials of life are raised.”
The worker —with the trade-
unions themselves part of the
State’s speed-up machinery—
“cannot slack off or take even a
few days’ rest, for an unattained
norm means an empty stomach,
and two days’ absenteeism is
punished by as much as six
months in a reformatory labor
camp.
“Under such conditions,” the
writer concludes, “labor, used
in competition with some three
million slave-workers, can be
worked full-out for a long time,
but when the breaking point is
reached, the collapse of produc-
tive effort is often complete.
There are indications that
certain sections of the Russian
working force are not far from
the breaking point.”
Eureka, Utopia!
It happened at Cleveland,
U.S.A., a week or two back—
the American Federation of
Labor’s Union Industries Show,
held to “demonstrate skill of the
organisation’s craftsmen and
stress labor amity with em-
ployers” !
ine N. Y. “Times” report
stated that more than 200 manu-
facturers had exhibits at the
sbow. The opening ceremony
was broadcast over a national
network, with, among other
leading labor lights taking part,
A.F.L. president William Green
applauding the show’s aims.
Apart from the employer-
employee get-together aspect, the
show had other wellnigh in-
credible features. Anybody
dropping in could have his shirt
laundered free, members of the
Laundry Workers’ Union operat-
ing a free laundry. Other attrac-
tions (this is fact, not fable!):
Free cuts of meat, by courtesy
of, the Meat Cutters’ Union ;
free oven masterpieces, Bakers’
Union; free wrenches. Black-
smiths’ Union.
Star turn (take hold of some-
thing ; preferably a brandy); A
Bricklayers’ Union contest
among 80 apprentices “to
demonstrate their skill and speed
in laying bricks”!
Hong Kong Prize.
A cabled report on June 8
that a British shipping firm had
concluded “the first known
agreement between the Chinese
Communist regime and a
foreign firm” (for transportation
of industrial machinery from
Hong Kong to Tientsin) hardly
accords with reports that have
appeared in U.S. newspapers.
About three weeks earlier a
Hong Kong correspondent of
N. Y, “Herald Tribune” re-
ported that the Communist side
had completed an agreement
with a Belgian bank in Hong
Kong, as a result of which
“lubricating - oil, paper and
trucks are going north in ex-
change for shipments of bristles,
soya-beans and coal.” Still
earlier reports, already quoted
here, stated that through similar
arrangements Hong Kong had
been serving the Corns well.
Largely on that account busi-
nessmen in Hong Kong “rather
nervously hope” the Chinese
Communists will permit Hong
Kong to remain as “a funnel
for trade and a window to the
West.”
On the other hand, however,
“less optimistic political ob-
servers point out that Hong
Kong is a rich prize, and that
when the Communists control
the mainland, the prize of this
little island will be almost
within their grasp. Moreover,
the Communists could hope to
seize the prize, if they were so
minded, by a process of strangu-
lation rather than by direct
assault.
“Hong Kong could be cut


Angus & Robertson Announce ...
THE HOLY CITY
A Camera Study of
Jerusalem and Its Surroundings
By FRANK HURLEY
Frank Hurley’s photographic studies of Holy Places will appeal to people
of all creeds and denominations; and they will have a special interest for
those men who served with the Forces in the Middle East, and for their
relatives and their friends.
The perfectly selected photographs obtained during his forty pilgrimages have
the created, quality that belongs to works of art.
This beautiful book is magnificently illustrated with over 100 photographs in
colour and duotone.
Price 42/- (post Bd.) •
Obtainable at all Booksellers
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LIMITED
Booksellers & Publishers,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
Fragrant Smoking!
The British BUTTNER Pipe
with highly porous ceramic filter.
No breaking-in, bite, burn, wet
dottle or waste.
Price, 19/6, post free.
Illustrated leaflet on request.
Sole Australian Distributors;
Charles Whetton Pty. Ltd.,
156 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
GUARD
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable for every type of business II record*
Oil Sole*. Credits, Payouts etc Strongly built,
pleating Id appearance Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent*—
SYDNEY . W. C. Penfold A Coi Ptj, Ltd.
MELBOURNE . , Norman Bros. PIJ. Ltd.
ADELAIDE . . Vnrdon A Bon> Ltd.
PERTH . , Docket Book Co. (Anet.l
ESSENTIALS
luxuries
f
£
m.
m
f
IM
• # - II
■' ‘t , .Jyjftdx.-\y
WHICH WAY WILL
THE MATERIAL GO?
Careless spending diverts material
and labour to non-essentiai purposes
...holds up production of necessities
If you are worried by shortages and
high prices, stop a moment and think
whether you may not be partly
responsible. The way you spend your
money the way Australians as a
whole spend their money—does have
an effect on prices and production. •
Here are the reasons:
Manpower is needed to process
materials ready for final production.
Since the war, Australia has been
suffering from an acute shortage of
manpower. Hence, materials of many
important kinds are in short supply.
Because of this scarcity of manpower
and materials, we can’t simultaneously
produce luxuries and a full supply of
necessities.
If we buy luxuries and non-essential
goods regardless of high prices, pro-
duction resources and materials arc
used in their manufacture. Produc-
tion of necessities is reduced, and we
are plagued with shortages of the
things we need most.
There is a simple way to help end
this situation. Cut out all luxury and
unnecessary spending. With the re-
duced demand for luxury goods,
manpower and materials will become
increasingly available for essential
industries. Shortages will begin
to disappear and prices become
stabilised.
Meanwhile, the money you save will
provide you with worthwhile funds
for good use later, and help secure
your future.
ve
TO HELP
REDUCE
SHORTAGES
SAVE THIS WAY
1. Buy only what you really need.
Avoid luxuries. Get full value.
2. Buy for cash always.
3. Settle your debts —then pay
your way.
4. Join a National Savings Group.
5. Build up your Savings Bank
Account.
6. Invest in Commonwealth
Loans.
7. Increase your life assurance.
Authorised by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
N 557.113.49
clean off r from China, and trade
with China is Hong Kong’s rea-
son for being. Then the pres-
sure could be steadily increased.
Hong Kong’s commerce could
be thrown into confusion by a
flood of hundreds of millions of
Hong Kong dollars from South
China, where the Hong Kong
dollar has become the main
medium of exchange. Finally,
the Hong Kong utilities, whose
labor unions are Communist-
controlled, could be struck, and
bloody street riots and looting
promoted by Communist
agents. The pressure to aban-
don Hong Kong on almost any
terms would then be very heavy,
although the British assert
stoutly thqt they intend to with-
stand any pressure whatever.”
In the “Herald Tribune”
man’s view, the way the Com-
munists decide to deal with
Hong Kong will be the first in-
dication of their policy towards
the Western world as a whole.
If the decision is to attack Hong
Kong “there will be a fight;
that fight will extend beyond
Hong Kong’s borders; and
there will even be danger of a
Far Eastern war.”
Artificial Insemination.
Apropos of the House of
Lords debate lately given here,
Washington “Post” quotes a
New York State Supreme Justice
as holding that a child produced
by artificial insemination is
legitimate in that State “if con-
ceived with the consent of the
husband of the child’s mother.”
American medical authorities
are reported as stating that the
practice is growing, at least
20,000 children in the U.S, hav-
ing been thus produced.
However, doctors and clinics
specialising in fertility cases are
cutting down the remarkable
number of childless marriages
(“about one in every 10
marriages is childless”), and “it
is thus possible that science will
be able to offer an alternative
to the widespread legal and bio-
logical confusion that would
accompany proxy parenthood on
a mass scale.”
U.S. Pacific Indecision.
Question direct to Uncle Sam,
put by Korean President Rhee:
“In case of an attack by an out-
side Power, would the Republic
of South Korea be able to count
on all-out American military
aid?”
Stating that phases of U.S.
policy, such as the embargo on
military aid to China from 1946
until late 1948, had “actively
assisted the spread of aggressive
Communism in Asia,” N. Y.
“Times” furthers Dr, Rhee’s
question: “We [U.S.A.] have
been one of the chief sponsors
of the new Korean Republic.
Do we propose to adopt a ‘wait-
and-see’ policy if it is threatened
with extinction?”
The pressing question, it adds,
is: Does the U.S. recognise
Pacific obligations, and, if so,
does it propose to live up to
them? “An answer to that ques-
tion might provide the basis for
a security compact in respect to
the Far East.”
One who can well claim to
be a special authority on this
issue. Admiral Halsey, lately re-
ferred to the radical change in
the Asian and Pacific situation
“since we [United States forces]
walked off the field in 1945.” He
commented:
“The Pacific situation is
rapidly changing from what it
was on V-J Day, when we
dominated the Pacific and there
was no opposition.
“The sweep of Communism
along the Asiatic coast and
down into Indo-China is going
to have its effect on the Philip-
pines, on Indonesia, in the
Netherlands East Indies, and all
through the Pacific, and we
may find ourselves again in the
position where hostile forces are
going to be occupying Pacific
areas.
“I feel there is going to have
to be a reorientation in our mili-
tary thinking to take real cognis-
ance of the Pacific*”
More U.S. Fancy
Figures.
Nice Goings On. —Material
for a juicy sort of a documentary
crime film, as supplied by J.
Edgar Hoover, director of the
U.S. Federal Bureau of Investi-
gation: “In the U.S. a serious
crime’ occurred every 18.7
seconds in 1948. With the pas-
sing of each day on the average
36 persons were feloniously
slain, 255 were victims of aggra-
vated assault or rape and 150
robberies were committed. Dur-
ing an average 24-hour period,
1032 places were burglarised,
463 automobiles were stolen, in
addition to 2672 miscellaneous
larcenies.”
* * * *
Canberra Almost Outdone. —
Speaking of the U.S. Govern-
ment’s 1816 different depart-
ments, agencies, bureaux, com-
missions and boards, “U.S. News
and World Report” states that
the output of rules and regula-
tions for their guidance fills
8811 pages of the Federal
Register each year now, and that
includes only “important” rul-
ings. As well, each of the 1816
has its own private rules. The
Veteran s’ Administration
(equivalent of Repat.) “has 88
different manuals, 665 technical
bulletins and 400 circulars
guiding its affairs."
» * * *
Book-of-the-Minute Club. —
The whiskered gag about the
addict asking the bookstall
people if they had the “mid-
day Edgar Wallace” is knocked
endways by official U.S. Gov-
ernment publishing, as revealed
in the Senate by Senator Bridges.
He said that an Appropriations
Committee which he had headed
asked each Federal agency (de-
partments, etc.) for one copy
of each of its publications. It
received a total of 83,000,
Naturally impressed, the
Senator pushed the clock back
a bit and found that in the last
10 years the U.S. Government
Printing Office had delivered the
pretty total of 133,582,867,587
copies of printed matter, in
addition to which the Govern-
ment’s departments and agencies
turned out “immense quantities”
on their own account
“The people ought to be glad
we didn’t pass a law forcing
them to read all that stuff,” com-
mented the Senator, going on to
dissect some of the multitudin-
ous publications. One that
specially appealed to him was a
booklet of “muskrat recipes, in-
cluding how to fry muskrat in
wine.” One on “Eliminating
Bats from Buildings” explained
how the bats could be evicted
by closing all but one or two
escape hatches in a barn. At
midnight, when all the bats are
presumed to have gone forth,
those outlets are plugged, too.
“Remarkably simple,” com-
mented the Senator.
Another in the pile was
“Habits, Food and Economic
Status of the Band-tailed
Pigeon” (it was news to him,
remarked the Senator, that the
band-tailed pigeon had an
economic status). Other select
printings; “The Status of the
Flea in North America,” “How
to Tell the Sex of Water-
melons,” and “The Cuban Frog-
leg Industry.” ___
Dragnet Digest.
Fuji in Disgrace. —Any Melbourmte
with a discarded cable-tram doing
nothing in his backyard might be
able to work a barter with Nippon:
according to a Tokyo correspondent
of N. Y. “Herald Tribune,” they’re
talking of running some line of the
kind to the summit of once-sacred
Fuji, to cash in on the" tourist traffic.
A prefecture governor, one Uchi-
yama, is quoted: “Mount Fuji isn’t
as sacred to some of our people as
it was before the war. It was a
great help for the B-29 pilots in
plotting their course for the bombing
of Tokyo. Some people now say
that, having contributed to our
national disaster, the mountain ought
to help in national recovery.”
♦ * * ♦
Radioactive Fish. —A Bikini inci-
dent recalled by eyewitness Dr. David
Bradley, addressing a Michigan Uni-
versity audience: “One day Admiral
Blandy, taking time out, as Navy
men occasionally do, caught a beau-
tiful tuna outside Bikini atoll. He
had not considered the possibility of
the fish being dangerous, and was
looking forward to having it for
supper, when someone suggested that
it should be examined for radio-
activity. This was done personally
by our colonel —and the fish was
found to be quite ‘hot, / as the saying
.is. An order was soon flashed
throughout the fleet that no fish
taken in or around Bikini was to be
cooked or eaten.”
* * ♦ *
Cams’ “Sucker-list —U.S. Corns,
according to N. Y. “Daily Mirror”
labor-writer Victor Riesel, have hopes
of keeping the current trial of their
11 leaders in the courts for at least
a year, “so they can squeeze every
bit of martyr propaganda out of it
for wOrld-wide use.” For this pur-
pose alone the Comrades need
$1,000,000 in cash, but unfortunately
“the Communist party’s sucker-lists
aren’t paying-off any more.” The
Comrades are discovering that “most
unions, Park Avenue thrill-seekers,
Hollywood swimming-pool ‘prole-
tariat’ and good-natured folk who
were always ready with a buck for
the underdog have closed their doors
and cheque-books to the party’s
agents.”
* * * *
When the Bough Breaks. —Lullaby
for Socialists, crooned by N. Y.
“Daily Mirror”: “Sir Stafford Cripps
is worried because British products
are too high and are being priced
out of the world market, particularly
the American. Sir Stafford, staunch
Socialist, blames ‘dollar shortages’
and false rumors about devaluation
of the pound. What Sir Stafford
does not see, or fails to admit, is
that Socialism adds to the cost of
everything Britain produces. ‘Free’
medicine, full ‘security,’ nationalisa-
tion, regimentation—these penalise
British prices to the point where
buyers hesitate or halt altogether.
Even with huge U.S. dollar subsidies
of Socialism, Sir Stafford worries.
What about Socialism when the sub-
sidy is finally withdrawn?”


It is the Hears of Maturing
that make them Alluring
ESTABLISHED 1847
otl and®
ŵ
PERSONAL ITEMS
Philip Ingleson, C.M.G., M.C.,
new British Trade Commissioner in
Queensland, had 25 years in the Sudan
political service, with governorships of
provinces with names reminiscent of P.
C. Wren—Haifa, Berber, Behr-el-Ghazal
and Darfur. Ingleson was governing the
last-named area’s polyglot population
through World War 11, after which he
returned to England to the Board of
Trade. Jn the Kaiser’s war France was
his stamping-ground; there he won his
M. with the Royal Fusiliers, His wife,
daughter of a British colonel of Ghurka
Rifles, was his secretary in the Sudan and
is with him now in Brisbane.
Australian Alan Villiers is at sea again,
this time in the 100-ton ketch Warspite,
to train boys’ characters in the school
which moulded his own —the austere ser-
vitude of the sea. His crew will be re-
tired master mariners, doubtless with no
inhibitions about serving under the 45-
year-old R.N.V.R. commander who, in a
crowded life in sail and steam, has zest-
fully explored the world’s corners from
the time he first shipped in the barque
James Craig at 15 till he sailed Arab
dhows in 1939 and transhipped to tank-
landing craft for the Italian, Normandy
and Burma campaigns. In between he
sailed his own Joseph Conrad 60,000
miles round the world, went with a Nor-
wegian whaling expedition to the Ross
Sea, made a film in a full-rigged wind-
jammer and, off watch, wrote. A recent
report from America mentions that the
Joseph Conrad has come out of moth-
balls and will ship young Baltimore
Yankees down to their first taste of salt-
water.
Percival Serle, who retired 29 years ago
from the Chief Clerkship of Melbourne
University to take a, busman’s holiday at
research work and is now honorary
bibliographer to Melbourne Public
Library, has completed his monumental
Dictionary of Australian Biography. In-
cluded in its 1030 names are those of 42
notable women ; also of several indivi-
duals chiefly notable for having ended
their lives after an interview with the
hangman. Curiously enough, although
the work reaches to 1943, there are only
a handful of servicemen. Like his brother
of the pen, R. H. Croll, with whom he
collaborated in the Bibliography of Aus-
tralasian Poetry and Verse, Serle has thus
been as active in retirement as before it.
His son, A. G. Serle, was Yictoria’s 1947
Rhodes Scholar.
Exercising the energetic intelligence
that carried him through a law course
(working in the Crown Law Department
by day and attending Sydney University
by night) to the N.S.W. Bar in 1930,
W. F. Sheahan, who’s an Old Digger,
has made the adjectival part of the
N. Transport Department begin to
mean something. Educated earlier at St.
Patrick’s College, Goulburn, where three
of his schoolmates were Judges O’Mara,
Kinsella and Lamaro, he had his first shot
at politics with a brace of photo-finishes
for the Petersham seat in the Macquarie-
street House, eventually romping home
for Yass in 1941. Soon after the present
G.-G. left the N.S.W. Cabinet for higher
parts—which elevation Sheahan criticised
pungently at the time —the member for
Yass got the Ministry of Lands, and may
soon return to that office, where his par-
ticular interest, soldier-settlement, could
do with his driving competence.
Commissioned to write a history of the
South Burnett (Q.) district for its cen-
tenary celebrations, Jim Murphy had
qualified for the job by down-to-earth ac-
quaintance of the northern State gained
in that first-class university the bluey-
track ; he “humped it” in the depression.
With the Aborigines Industries Board on
historical Badu Island, in Torres Strait,
looking after local pearl and trochus-shell
fishing for five years, he was well acclima-
tised to attend the Milne Bay reception
to the Japs in 1942, which gave him
material for his “Curate’s Egg” pars on
the action. In between visits to Kinga-
roy and Nanango to compile his history,
he is with the Labor and National Re-
search Department in Brisbane.
Last week in Sydney the wine-and-
spirit firm of Harrison and Attwood
reached its century of dispensing. Re-
sponsibility for the birthday-party—at
which spirit-men from three States
honored the old firm and some 15-year-
old whisky brought from Scotland —rested
on the hefty shoulders of the firm’s one-
time office-boy, Gordon Barnes, now its
managing-director, with C.I.A. and C.I.S,
appended to his monicker. His tastes
run from interest in the technical side
of wine-making to rolling ’em down the
bowling greens and hauling ’em into his
boat seaward of Coogee.
The musical wayside is strewn with
child prodigies who burned themselves
out early; one of the few to reach the
eminence of the virtuosi, and stay there,
is Aleksandr Helmann, whose mastery of
the keyboard is now being demonstrated
to Australian audiences. Born in Russia,
the 37-year-old pianist has been on the
ALEKSANDR HERMANN.
concert platform, with a period away to
polish off his education, since he was a
boy ; yet he still retains an obvious shy-
ness before an audience —that is, until
he flicks his tails over the piano-stool.
Thenceforward for him the audience no
longer exists. His playing is endowed
with probably the highest voltage of
nervous energy of any living virtuoso ;
halfway through a concert on a
winter night his collar is reduced to a
limp rag. A lover of England, he has
bought a farm there; and he speaks the
language better than most natives. After
leaving Russia 26 years ago his family
settled in the U.S. There till the war,
and rejected for military service, he gave
many troop recitals,
J. Q. Ewens, a Bachelor of Laws from
Adelaide University and a Supreme
Court barrister in that city for four years,
is the new Commonwealth Parliamentary
draftsman in Canberra. He was the
Federal Attorney-General’s senior legal
officer before shifting from law-enforcing
to bill-drafting in 1945.
Commander R. Veale, R.A.N.V.R.,
who has handed over direction of naval
recruiting in Melbourne, joined the re-
serve Navy in 1909, and has served con-
tinuously in it since—which, if not an
Australian record, must be a very near-
miss. Of those 40 years, 15 have been
in mobilised service—over five years in
World War I and 10 connected with
World War II- As a cadet Veale learned
his gun-drill on H.M.A.S. Cerberus’s lOin.
muzzle-loaders, and in 1914 was appointed
to the Port Phillip examination steamer.
There he hoisted the signal which re-
sulted in the first angry shot fired by
Australia in that war. The German
vessel Pfalz was tailing it for the open
spaces when the Point Nepean battery,
in answer to Veale’s signal, brought her
up standing with a shot across her bows.
Veale’s next excitement was in New
Guinea, where he landed from the Ber-
rima in August, 1914, as half-company
leader to capture the Bitapaka wireless-
station. Followed service in cruiser En-
counter on the China station, and in the
old coal-burning, 30-knot British de-
stroyer Fame; and he commanded the
naval-reserve companies at the Canberra
Parliament’s opening by the present King
in 1927. With World War II imminent,
Veale returned to his old Port Phillip
station, this time as chief examining
officer, but shortly after came ashore to
boost recruiting in Victoria. He has
handed over to Commander A. C.
Mather, a permanent-service executive
man.
“Uramao”: Heading for Washington
to represent Maoriland scientists and
act as liaison officer between them and
scientific bodies of the U.S., Britain, Aus-
tralia and Canada already there, Dr. V.
Armstrong got his doctorate under Sir
Alfred Egerton at the Imperial College
of Science, In the recent war he left the
Department of Industrial and Scientific
Research to manage that part of the Ford
works in M.L. engaged in filling mortar-
bombs.
Answered the last summons in Ade-
laide, Gerald Michael O’Dea, g.-m. of
the South Australian Gas Company. Born
at Jamestown (S.A.), he went into the
Adelaide Steamship Co. from the city’s
university, stayed there 12 years, then
took on the gas co.’s secretaryship, and,
in 1944, its managership. Just after war
broke he was elected president of the
Gas Association of Australia. He used
to be one of South Australia’s crack
tennis-players, and represented it in inter-
state tourneys for 20 years; in latter
years he had been just as keen a golfer.
Selected Federal Liberal man to con-
test Martin (N.S.W.), Wing-Commander
Bill Mann, D.F.C., learned to fly at Point
Cook in 1936 and was one of the original
members posted to the then-new West-
ralian station, of Pearce. He went to
England in 1939 for specialist work on
armaments, returned home the next year
to a staff appointment at Air Board and
was chief instructor at several Empire
Training Schools before leading 31 Beau-
fighter Squadron against the Japs. Among
other things he collected a 4000-ton Jap
transport. Hit over the Am Islands, he
force-landed in Arnhem Land and was
led to safety through unmapped country
by wild abos. Back for more with the
R.A.F., on special duties in 1944, which
took him over France, Belgium and Ger-
many, he was gonged by the King and
resigned from the R.A.A.F*. in Australia
in 1946, to start, with a couple of other
ex-servicemen, a ready-mixed concrete
business, of which he’s now managing-
director.
As Mcßeath’s appended diagram indi-
cates, E. D. Shaw is a pipeman—though
mainly of the water-carrying variety.
Appointed by Victorian Rivers and Water
Supply Commission chief engineer of the
State’s £ 10-million Eildon Weir exten-
sion, he will be in charge of the second-
largest earthen dam in the world. Land-
scape-alterer on the grand scale, he’s left
E. D. SHAW, Construction Engineer.
the imprint of his engineering skill on
mnst nf Victoria’s irrigation and water-
most or victorias irrigation ana water-
storage schemes. Joining the commission
in 1913, he put large areas of Wernbee,
Bacchus Marsh and Shepparton under
water, and in 1919, as executive engineer
j. TT ’ , ... °. , ,
of Hume Reservoir, built the associated
locks, weirs, dams and what-have-you of
that sizeable undertaking. Since 1933 he
has been senior divisional engineer of
the Unrrav and snrrmindinn mainr
tne Murray ana surrounamg major
works, with promotion to the commis-
sion’s chief constructional engineer in
1947. A few years back the State Gov-
eminent sent him to study the latest con-
struction methods in the U.S. and Canada,
which, with the qualifications indicated
by his string of engineering initials,
should ensure the success of his latest,
and biggest, assignment.
Celebrated the half-century of his
ordination as a C. of E. clergyman, Bishop
W. A. R. Fitchett, of Dunedin (M.L.).
A son of Dean Fitchett and nephew of
that Dr. Fitchett whose Deeds That Won
the Empire appealed so widely just be-
fore World War I, the Bishop graduated
from Cambridge in 1899 and ministered
to the flock -at St. Peter’s, Bury, before
returning home, to St. Thomas’s, Welling-
ton. He became Dean of Dunedin in
1915, and its bishop in 1934. Member
of a journalistic family (his father was
an able writer) Bishop Fitchett ensures a
full church by the shortness of his well-
subbed sermons.
L. G. Riches, of Port Augusta (S.A.),
is nothing if not a man of parts. Re-
cently elected Mayor of the Gulf town
for the fourteenth successive term, he has
been member for Stuart in the South
Australian Assembly since 1938, for five
years before that represented the State’s
Newcastle electorate, and to his mayoral
duties adds those of managing the town’s
newspaper, holding numerous public
posts and preaching in the local kirk.
Whether influenced by P. G. Wode-
house or C. R. Attlee, sons of peers these
days seem to be forsaking the ancestral
life for one of commercialism. One was
found selling radiators in the U.S. re-
cently, and now another, the Hon. Simon
Warrender, one of three sons of Lord
Bruntisfield (who was a Grenadier
Guardsman in the First World War and
Parliamentary and Financial Secretary to
the Admiralty in the next), has arrived
in Australia from England in a single-
engined Proctor to sell light amphibian
aircraft. He plugged his wares wherever
he touched down en route.
A strangely varied career had Robert
Eadie, passed on at Healesville (Vic.) at
86. Born at Sunbury (Vic.), he eventu-
ally became a mining engineer, colliery-
owner and mayor of a Boer town in
Transvaal, and friend of. Smuts and
Kruger. But he was a British intelli-
gence-officer in the Boer War, and as
such was one of the party that helped
Winston Churchill escape from Boer
hands, hiding him in a mine and deliver-
ing him to safety in Portuguese East
Africa. After that war Eadie induced
Kruger to establish the Kruger National
Park. Back in Victoria, he was the first
man to catch a live platypus and rear
it. With Colin MacKenzie, he established
the Sir Colin MacKenzie Sanctuary at
Healesville, where, as honorary curator,
he created the “platypussary” which be-
came world-famous.
Into the Silence;
In Durban (S’ Africa), Colonel R. R. Smith-
Barry, the British aviation pioneer who started
the special school of flying at Gosport (Eng.),
whence originated the Gosport system of train-
ing which became standard throughout the
British Empire, and is still used in the R.A.F.
In Brisbane, at 84, Arthur Elton Allison, who,
born in Dublin, joined the Queensland National
Bank in 1886, and served it in many of the
State’s country towns until retirement in 1928.
In Melbourne, Claude Nye, the man behind
the coming and going of all inter-State train
passengers into Victoria; he was stationmaster
at Melbourne’s Spencer-street.
Charles Ernest Culley, at 71, a one-time hod-
carrier who replaced Lyons as Tasmania’s rep-
resentative in the Federal Ministry in 1931.
For years secretary of the Tas. Trades Hall,
and of a dozen or so unions at various times,
Culley was chosen when, in 1927, it was Tas.
Labor’s turn to send a man to Geneva; he
went again in’ 1938.
In Brisbane, J. J. Pearse, doyen of Queens-
land motor-traders and for the past 25 years
managing-director of Exide Battery Service in
the State.
At Wellington (M.L.), Guy Norman Morris,
one-time s.m., and for two terms Resident
Commissioner at Niue. He was with the Enzed
Rifle Brigade in World War I,
In Melbourne, on shore leave, Thomas
Ferguson, for six years chief-engineer of the
Duntroon. Starting with Melbourne Steamship
Co. in 1912, he rose through the engine-rooms
of all that company’s fleet to be its senior
chief-engineer. Lowana was his last com-
mission.
In Melbourne, Walter Butler, who designed
many of the city’s ecclesiastical buildings and
the Union Bank in Collins-street east. He was
a leading London architect before he took up
his Melbourne practice in 1888.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 88, R. W. McVilly,
one-time g.m. of railways. He retired in 1924.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Mrs. J. F, Key, honorary organiser of
the Woollies Appeal for Britain, seeks
the help of knitters. Baby-wool is now
ready for distribution, and pretty pastel-
blue, pink and white can be made up
into woollies for the coming English
winter. If you can help, wool may be
obtained from the Appeal office at the
Melbourne Town Hall between 10 a.m,
and 5 p.m. on weekdays.
Even now, in the depth of winter,
women are casting eyes upon the clothes
of warmer days. And, judging from
recent previews, it will not be a season
devoted entirely to the wearing of silks
and crepes, for cotton has stepped boldly
into the fashion picture. There are plain
and slub-linens; cotton chambrays,
stripes and floral prints and plain
cotton fabrics in rich, glowing shades.
Beach. dresses will have striped dirndl
skirts and halter-neck tops in a plain
cotton which matches the stripes. Well-
cut white shorts are contrasted with a
buttercup-yellow halter-top, while one
strapless rich-green beach-dress finishes
with a scarf edged with white cotton.
Green-and-white floral cotton makes an
off-the-shoulder bouffant dance frock;
another has a plaid skirt and a bjack
linen boat-neck short-sleeved blouse. A
pastel-pink candy-striped jacket-suit
answers prettily to white accessories. An
afternoon cotton frock of distinction is
of mauve pique, with a second skirt of
sheer white organdie ruffles peeping
through the front opening of the wide
mauve skirt. For more formal occasions
a black linen bolero suit with a sheer
white voile blouse fills the bill, and added
to its attraction is a wide-brimmed black
straw hat and white gloves. Cotton frocks
and suits will cut down the cleaning
bills, for they launder up to their first
crisp freshness.
Country Women’s Association Younger
Set Week will be held at Somers House,
Black Rock, from August 19 to 26. Joan
Robinson is again the organiser, and the
newly-elected Y.S.’ representative on the
State executive, Willa Kingston, will
attend. Junior members of parent
branches without Younger Sets will be
admitted if Younger Sets do not fill
Somers House. As the accommodation
is limited, applications must be made
before July 16. The theme of the week
will be “The World and You.” The pro-
gramme will embrace physical, cultural
and social activities. The first will include
national dances, “keep-fit” exercises and
tennis. There will be millinery demon-
strations and papier-mache work, and in-
structions on dress sense and menus for
special occasions. The week in Somers
House will cost £2 10s. Members should
communicate with their branch secretary
for further information.
11l in hospital, Kenneth Rowell
was unable to see the good use to which
his excellent decor and costumes were put
in the presentation of “Aurora’s Wed-
ding” by the National Ballet Company at
the Princess, So impressed by the danc-
ing of this young newly-formed Austra-
lian ballet group was the Italian Ambas-
sador that he said he hoped one day it
would be possible for the company to go
to Italy. The Ambassador’s wife. Signora
del Balzo, wore a dull-gold satin gown
and fox cape; the Knox lady was in
hyacinth-blue crepes and silver foxes;
Mrs, Henry Steele covered her blue gown
with a red velvet coat; Pamela Knox
added a lynx-fur cape to her midnight-
blue taffeta gown, which had cerise
taffeta bows on the bouffant skirt; Pat-
ricia Brady’s velvets were in midnight-
blue toning; Mrs. Fred Dennett covered
her black velvet gown with a hip-length
white ermine coat; Mrs. H. A. Chari-
wood’s dull-gold crepe gown was trimmed
with gold sequins ; Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s
black Persian-lamb jacket was bordered
in mink; floral velvet in autumn tonings
was worn by Mrs. J. Bowen Pain under
a dyed-ermine jacket; Mrs. Jim Camp-
bell wore a full-length parchment-toned
quilted coat,
A grey day at Caulfield, with only the
bright ribbon, flower or feather to add
gaiety to otherwise sombre dressing. Mrs.
Norman Robinson, wife of the V.A.T.C.
chairman, wore a junior-navy suit and
hip-length jacket of dyed-ermine; her
small hat was of matching blue. Mrs.
John Cain’s beech-brown ensemble had
for company a small hat trimmed with
aqua-blue ribbon. Visitor from San
Francisco, Mrs. Russ Bowell, was in
burgundy broadcloth ; her small match-
ing hat was trimmed with bird-wings.
Ospreys flew in the brown hat worn with
her mink coat by Mrs. W. A. Bartlett.
Black ospreys adorned the hat worn by
Mrs, H. Silk with her black Persian-lamb-
trimmed coat. Mrs. Geoffrey White-
head s jacket was in wide green-and-red
checks. A dark-green skirt, braided
junior navy coat, and a lighter-toned felt
hat trimmed with powder-blue feathers
wer e Mrs. Fred Hammond’s neat choice,
Fur . lined brown boots were worn by
•i, “ _ . ... , , - nlr ___ t
Mrs. G. T Davies with her mink coat
and small biown hat. Mrs.
Milners coat was of dyed-squirrel, her
brown hat wide-brimmed. Her mother,
Mrs. J. Crothers, wore a grey ensemble,
with two grey birds set on the crown
of her grey felt hat. Mrs. Fred Mc-
Donotigh, of Burma, matched her grey
check suit with a felt hat. Mrs. L.
Gowenlock’s black coat had \ silver-fox
collar. Mrs, Harry Scott’s wine-toned
wool frock was worn under a dark-brown
camel-hair coat. A deep-wine wool crepe
suit, a long matching coat and a hat
trimmed with pink and green feathers
made neat alliance for Mrs. Frank Demp-
sey.
Mrs. Maie Hoban was hostess at a
p ar ty at the Oriental in honor of Mrs
N e i son Wellington, who, with her hus-
band Colonel Wellington, is leaving soon
foj . America to visit their married
d hter in Xexas The hostess and the
s t . of . honor have bem £rie „ds since
f u . D nf
'heir girlhood in Ballarat Relatives ot
Mrs. Wellington, r r, mf ?f rorn Ral-
man and Oswa g > Frank T ucas
larat for the party.
assisted her mothei r g •
Lysbeth Anne, second daughter ot
Mrs. Douglas Boyd, South Yarra, and
Douglas Boyd, of Moulamein (N.S.W.),
w ho has announced her engagement to
Felix Arthur, second son of Mr. and
Mrs. F. P. St. Hill, of Hobart, was edu-
cated at Clyde and has for some years
b een on the staff of the U.S. Informa-
tion Library. Her engagement-ring is a
square-cut emerald in a square setting of
diamonds.
So many parties have been given for
Mrs. Ray Joseph that her voyage to Eng-
land will be more in the nature of a rest-
cure than a business trip—she is numbered
among the successful businesswomen o
th!s city. Mr. and Mrs. Josep p
be away, from Austral.a for seven months.
He is Federal president of the Australian
Natives Association. Photograph from
Broothorn studios.
Mrs. Norman Lynch filled the recep-
tion-rooms of her Toorak home with
large bowls of apricot-tinted autumn
flowers mixed with bronze autumn
foliage for the farewell luncheon-party
she gave for Mrs. Ray Joseph. The
hostess wore a Christian Dior model
frock of junior-navy crepe which had
bands of matching taffeta. The guest-of-
honor added to her London-tan gabardine
suit a winter-white felt hat trimmed with
London-tan ospreys, Mrs. W. Clayton
wore a matching hat with her forest-green
tailored suit. Mrs. Frank Marland’s suit
was junior-navy, her small hat was
trimmed with pastel-pink and blue
feathers. Mrs. Royden Honeyman’s black
frock was of ballerina length. A Foreign
Legion hat of grey felt completed with a
snood was worn by Mrs. F. Tupper with
her tailored grey suit, Mrs. C. Curtain’s
winter-green jacket-suit had a pleated
skirt. Black ospreys trimmed the small
red pillbox hat worn by Mrs. L. Green
with her black ensemble.
About 200 guests, mostly ’Varsity
students and former students of Mel-
bourne Grammar, turned up to Barry
Connell’s 21st birthday party held at
9 Darling-street. Receiving the guests
with him, Barry’s mother wore a gown
of deep azure-blue French crepe, beaded
on the shoulderline, and having a full
skirt.
From Sydney
The Girl in the Flat Opposite .refers
to her electric light as Conde’s Fluid —
says she most objects to the homeopathic
doses.
For 39 years the Bush Book Club has
been keeping readers of the outback and
of centres far from the ordinary library
and bookshop in reading-matter. There
was an atmosphere of justified congratu-
lation among friends and office-bearers at
last week’s annual meeting in History
House. The Kelso King lady presided,
and the Governor’s daughter, Elizabeth
Northcott, attended. Details of a Book
Ballot to be held in December were ex-
plained by Mrs. Dundas Allen. Prizes
will include out-of-print and limited
editions as well as the latest novels. The
ballot will add to the club funds. During
last year about 8000 books were distri-
buted. The ladies had netted a big fish
for the meeting—a regular whale —in Sir
James Bisset, master mariner and
former commander of the Queen Mary
and the Queen Elizabeth. He moved the
adoption of the annual report.
This is a Norton Trevaire photograph
of Lady Moxham, wife of knight Harry
Moxham, who is once again president of
the International Section of the Red
Cross Flower Festival, This will be
opened in the Domain on September 21,
and will continue till the 24th. Lady
Moxham is also writing an article on
the International aspects of Red Cross
for the Special Festival magazine. Wives
of Consular and diplomatic dignitaries
are working to make their exhibit even
more attractive than it was last year.
One night last week Sydneyites who
love their city stood entranced before
the stately outlines of St. Andrew’s
Cathedral. The night was clear, with a
touch of frost, and there was dignity and
peace and a touch of the medieval about
the old church. Most of the people who
passed were on their way to the Rudolf
Schock concert in the Town Hall next
door.
Mr. Schock, lyric tenor, has been
the Australian Broadcasting Commis-
sion’s concert draw for the past week.
Rudolf has a big smile, good tailorings
and a pleasant way with audiences. His
listeners crowded out the Town Hall and
passed knowledgeable comment, often
in German, on his singing.
Town Hall audiences these nights look
and sound like a little Europe. No
longer do artists have to depend on a
social following to get a full house. Most
important of all, from the performers’
point of view, these people know, and
hunger for, their music. In spite of the
congealing atmosphere of the Town
Hall, most women felt repaid for leav-
ing their (probably blacked-out) radi-
ators. Rudolf’s notes were warm and
radiant, particularly in Giordano’s “Caro
Mio Ben.” And putting the composer’s
name to that is about as necessary as to
write that “Hamlet” was by Shakspeare.
Stepping from the dismal deluge of
one of the murkiest nights last week into
the hall of Sancta Sophia within the
university was like being wafted into a
different clime. Here all was light and
cheerfulness —the brave hues of flowers,
the warm glow of great log fires. The
walls of the college, too, are rich with
good paintings and many prints of the
Old Masters. The party was for the
“freshers”; 32 of whom, all in white,
were presented to Lady Sheldon, chief
councillor of the college. She was
squired by impressive-looking Sir Mark,
and was herself graceful and gracious in
a frock of soft gold brocade, against its
bodice two wine-red roses.
Senior* student Mary Arnold made
the introductions. Her frock was of
deep sapphire - blue velvet with a
berthe of hand-made old-ivory lace.
Mrs. Tom Bateman (accompanied by her
husband), Mrs. Leon Lyons and Dr.
Dora Bye were other councillors who
received the official party in the Blue
Room. This has no reference to blue
stockings, but is a reception-room
furnished in lotos blues. Presentation
and dancing were in the Common Room,
supper in the dining-room, and during
the evening the girls entertained groups
of their friends in their own rooms, gay
for the occasion with balloons and
streamers.
Mrs. Tom Bateman’s frock was
of lobelia-blue satin brocade, very
full-skirted and cut off the shoulders, the
flower-design being outlined on the
bodice with sequins and pearls. Dr.
Dora Bye wore black velvet, and a
slimly-cut black frock was worn by Mrs.
Leon Lyons, The official party included
Mr. Justice and Mrs. Roper, and many
professors and principals of various col-
leges and their wives. Betty Archdale,
of the Women’s College, was among the
guests, and Mrs. Stephen Roberts, wife
of the university’s vice-chancellor —her
frock of black faille bright with gold
motifs.
The Australian-American Association,
somewhat shrunken by the morning of
steady, persistent and torrential rain,
rallied to the Trocadero last Thursday to
hear Laurence W. Taylor explain how
the wheels go round in the U.S. Foreign
Service. Laurence has served his coun-
try pretty well all over the world. He
was the last Consular officer to leave Paris
in 1941. In Strassburg he witnessed the
outbreak of the Second World War, and
was in Bordeaux during the German
occupation. He has been in French
Equatorial Africa, and just about in evefy
Consular post in his own United States
of America.
Sifting the grain from the chaff; finds
ing as near as possible the truth in every*
situation as it affects his own land is
apparently the job of the really useful
Consular Ambassador. This Letter pre-
viously had always believed that giving
cocktails and dinner-parties, driving in
luxury cars and boosting trade made up
the day’s work for the Consular lads.
Anyway, Mr. Taylor should know. He
is in Australia to inspect the six U.S.
Foreign Service posts in this land. The
“Sun’s” Eric Kennedy made a neat and
witty speech of thanks. Wife of president
C R. Horley gets high marks for her hat,
which refused to be dispirited by the
rain, but wore a jaunty and alluring air.
Another guest smiling above the flower-
decorations at the official table was
Bulletin’s Billy Albert.
Folk-song enthusiasts Mrs. G. C.
Lambie and Mrs. H. V. London and
Clement Hosking are tearing the Orkneys
and the Hebrides and the Ireland of long
ago apart for traditional music of other
days. These are being woven into a
bright pattern for the Folk Festival to be
held in the Town Hall on July 4 and 5.
Song and dance from almost every
land will lilt through the programmes.
The Sydney Folk Song Choir will take
part; and two already notable choirs of
boys’ voices from Newington School and
St. Charles’s School will be heard.
Clement Hosking, president of the Folk
Lore Association, will direct the whole.
Margaret Willis is the secretary, Mrs.
F. M. Keary is the treasurer. Miss D.
Mackay and Miss P. Templeton are
other keen workers.
The Royal Empire Society’s drawing-
room was cosy in spite of Wednesday’s
glum and bitter weather when Mrs.
George Mack and Mrs. Margaret Gil-
lespie were hostesses of the Women’s
Auxiliary. After a hasty descent from the
third to the first floor because of the un-
wanted caller, the rain, Jthings settled
down to the soothing sonata “Minia-
tures” by Frank Bridges, old English airs
by Roger Quilter and “Spring” (though
that was hard to believe in) by Grieg.
Gwyn Aldis, Kitty Smith and Arthur
Aldis were the players of piano, violin
and ’cello. Kitty Smith, who makes
violins, gave an enlightening talk on her
instrument—the different woods and
other ingredients in its make-up.
The guest of honor, the Dayang Muja
of Sarawak, Mrs. Bennett Brooke un-
fortunately was absent because of
asthma. Dr. Isabel Garvice, who has
spent many years in Cairo, gave a short
resume of Egypt’s history. Margaret
Gillespie’s silver-fox collar was of the
new design, and altogether above re-
proach. Mrs. Percy Spender, president
of the auxiliary, was Christian Dior in
the architecture of her suit. Mrs. C. R.
McKerihan was among the smartly-
tailored, as were Mrs. Persia Porter and
Miss Elizabeth Plummer. Lately-
arrived guest from England was Mrs.
Woollven. . „ , ~
The oldest Music Club in Sydney, the
“Queen Victoria Club,” has just held its
annual scholarship contest. At a con-
cert of finalists at the Lyceum Club on
May 27 the winner of each section was
announced. The pianoforte scholarship
of £25 was won by Joy Cross (pupil of
Lawrence (Godfrey Smith). A special
“Alice White” vocal scholarship of £25,
given by Mrs. Percy C. White, was won
by coloratura soprano Audrey Lewis
(pupil of Nathalie Rosenwax). The
adjudicator was Mr, James Brash.


Position Vacant.
Cairns Modem Panel Shop, equipped with
modern equipment, requires first-class
panel-beaters. Remuneration according to
ability. Apply P.O. Box 907, Cairns.
Legal Notice.
ANDREW WRIGHT DECEASED.
PURSUANT to an order of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania dated the 30th day of
May, 1949, and made in the matter of the
estate of ANDREW WRIGHT, late of
Kingston, in Tasmania, farmer, who died
on 21st September, 1888, and ALFRED
HICKMAN and JOHN YOUNG LEVIS
against MYLES JOHN FIRTH whereby
inquiries were directed for the issue of
the following marriages, namely:
1. ELIZA MORGAN (nee Wright) and
HENRY WILLIAM FIRTH on 2nd
July, 1895.
2. HILDA MARY JANET HOPWOOD
(nee Morgan) and MARSHALL
CUNLIFFE on 27th January, 1906.
3. HILDA MARY JANET CUNLIFFE
(formerly Morgan and Hop wood)
with CARL ARTHUR PETERSON
or PATTERSON or PETTERSON
in Victoria or Western Australia
between the years 1906 and 1985 ;
and for the issue of FREDERICK
WILLIAM FIRTH, the son of MARY JANE
and HENRY WILLIAM FIRTH, who was
drowned at the Hume Weir, in the State
of New South Wales, between Slst
January and 3rd February, 1943.
NOTICE is hereby given that all per-
sons claiming to be entitled under the
said inquiries ate, pn or before the Ist
day of August, 1949, to send by post
prepaid to SIMMONS, WOLFHA6EN,
SIMMONS & WALCH, of Number 86
Collins Street, Hobart, in Tasmania, their
full Christian and surnames, addresses and
descriptions, and full particulars of their
claims, or in default thereof they will he
excluded from the benefit of the said
order unless the Court or Judge on appli-
cation otherwise orders. Claimants are
to attend personally or by their solicitor
before his Honor the Judge at Judge’s
Chambers, Franklin Square, Hobart, on
Thursday, 'the 18th August, 1949, at
10 o’clock in the forenoon being the time
appointed for adjudicating upon .the
claims.
A Claimant not residing in the State
of Tasmania must send with particulars
of his claims the name and address of
a person in the State of Tasmania to
whom notices for the claimant can be
sent.
Dated this 10th day of June, 1949.
—-(l-s.) J. R. REX, Principal Registrar.
MATER MISERICORDIAE
PUBLIC HOSPITALS, BRISBANE
300 BEDS. 12 RESIDENT MEDICAL
OFFICERS.
Salary range: £473/10/- p.a. to
£673/10/- p.a.,
plus board, lodging and laundry.
Vacancies exist for two (2) RESIDENT
MEDICAL OFFICERS at the above
Hospitals.
Applications enclosing three (3) testi-
monials and stating age, qualifications
and experience and earliest date available
for duty should be addressed to the under-
signed.
H. A. HEGARTY, Secretary,
Mater Miserioordiae Hospitals,
Justice Chambers,
17a Adelaide Street, '
BRISBANE, 8.4.
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Iw Divorce.
TO THOMAS EDWIN STRONG ROWEN
late of East Greta near West Maitland
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that BRIDGET ROWEN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2339 of 1948
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance before the Sth Sep-
tember 1949 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from Messrs.
WALLER FRY & FAULKNER, Solicitors,
456 High Street, West Maitland, or their
Agents, Messrs. BRAYE & MALCOMSON,
Solicitors, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.—(l.s.)
J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ix Divorce.
TO lAN DONALD CROSS late of Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY CROSS
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1374
of 1949 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and is asking the exercise
of the Court’s discretion in her favour
under See. 19 2 (a) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the sth day of Sep-
tember 1949 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from WILLIAM
LANDER, Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—(n.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— Ix Divorce.
TO JAMES JOHN CARL O’KEEFE late
of Lidcombe. TAKE NOTICE that
GLADYS MURIEL BEAUMONT O’KEEFE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 872
of 1949 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Sth day of September
1949 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from WILLIAM LANDER,
Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
(L.S.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
British Defence
Estimates.
“Ek Dum”: The British de-
fence estimates, copies of which
have reached Australia, give a
very fair idea of the proportions
of the cost of defence which the
various parts of the British Com-
monwealth carry.
The British forces, by com-
parison with those of Australia,
are better paid, better equipped
and about tenfold more ade-
quate than those raised here. In
fact, comparisons, in view of the
extent of the United Kingdom’s
sacrifices at a time when we had
few men in the field and were
producing scarcely any muni-
tions, are staggering.
The Royal Navy and Marine
Estimates provide for 153,000
men, somewhat fewer than last
year. But with only about six
times the population of Aus-
tralia the United Kingdom has
provided for nearly as many
commissioned officers for the
R.N. and R.M. as there are per-
sonnel altogether in the R.A.N.
Vessels either on the way to
launching or launched and not
yet taken into service were at
March 31, 1949; A fleet-carrier
(Cammell, Laird), a light fleet-
carrier (Vickers-Armstrong), 14
destroyers not yet launched. The
ships launched include the fleet
aircraft-carrier Eagle. She is
803 ft. 9in. long—length between
perpendiculars, 720 ft. —with a
beam of 112 ft. 9in. Her arma-
ment is heartening—l 6 4.5< and
61 other guns.
Next among the launched
come the light fleet-carriers
Powerful, Majestic, Leviathan
(A), Hercules (A), Centaur,
Albion, Bulwark. Those labelled
(A) are under suspension, though
work on their equipment is being
done. They are round the 695 ft.
class with 30 guns, except for
the last three, which are 736 ft.,
with 32 guns.
Three cruisers are listed. They
were all launched immediately
after the end of the war, and are
555 ft. long. But work on them
is being held in abeyance pend-
ing research on armament. A
couple of destroyers, of which
the first is named Alamein, are
on the way. They carry five
4.55, eight other guns and a pair
of pentad tubes above water.
Generally, the naval scale of
pay is generous by Australian
standards, especially when allow-
ances are .taken into account.
With a gross estimate of ex-
penditure for the year of
£209,000,000 sterling—virtually
as much as we are spending on
all services in five years in terms
of Australian money, with a quid
pro quo which is remarkable by
comparison with what Australia
gets for its outlay, the Royal
Navy gives the impression, even
in its present tentative condition,
of being a service worth belong-
ing to, which has work to do
and which has got somewhere.
For the Army the provision is
£356,000,000, a decrease of
£23,267,000 by comparison with
1948-49. It provides for 33,000
officers and 314,000 other ranks
for garrisons in Europe, includ-
ing the United Kingdom, plus
9300 officers and 162,000 other
ranks in garrisons outside
Europe. And this does not in-
clude 31,000 on release leave.
If anything happens to dis-
turb the world in a big way and
Hong Kong or Singapore falls,
the newspapers of Australia
(the overseas force of which
consists of a battalion group in
Japan with a Lieutenant-
General as Commander-in-
Chief) will ask loudly and in-
dignantly why Britain doesn’t
“do something”—and complain
that the Dominions have been
let down.
The relative position was
about the same at the time of
Singapore.
It is iriteresting to note that
the Brigade of Gurkhas is still
on the establishment last
remnant of the glories of the
British Indian Army.
The Royal Air Force called
for £236,691,000 for this year.
There are to be 255,000 on
strength—a serious falling-off of
70,000 from the numbers of last
year. The R.A.F. needs 22,000
officers and 213,000 other ranks.
The allocations for aircraft and
stores i —•
Aircraft ..' .. .. .. £50,650,000
Armament and explosives £5,320,000
Radio, radar, etc £6,080,000
Vehicles and marine craft £4,820,000
The gross total provided for air-
craft and stores department is
£82,500,000, which represents a
net increase over last year of
£16,500,000, after various ad-
justments have been made. The
increase in the outlay on aircraft
for the year by comparison with
1948-49 is £13,414,000.
The expenditure on aircraft is
divided into aircraft, £22,950,000,
airframe spares, propellers, gun
turrets, £11,500,000, and aero
engines, £16,200,000. • On radio
and radar the outlay will be
£4,200,000 bn the basis of the
estimate, with £3,300,000 for in-
struments and. photographic
equipment.
New works and alterations, in
items of £lO,OOO or more, call
for £10,450,000, and “ordinary
repairs, renewals and mainten-
ance” for another £11,000,000,
and £1,500,000 is provided for
the purchase and rent of lands
and buildings.
A great deal of the new work
is on improved housing, with
nearly £3,000,000 in new airfields
at home and abroad.
Altogether, the R.A.F., like
its sister-services, appears to be
turning over to a new activity,
despite some paring of expendi-
ture, but it makes the R.A.A.F.’s
efforts look feeble, unless the
Australian department is doing
considerably more than is
known.
It is not possible to be«*as
clear about it or about any other
service in the Commonwealth as
about those in Britain. There
estimates are drafted under the
curious conception that the
taxpayers ought to be able to
understand them and know
where their money is going.
Each section is carefully an-
notated to explain what it is all
about, and, with the documents
of each service, there is a sup-
plement showing the scales of
pay, allowances and gratuities
for every grade in the service.
In setting this out the British
provide an example which Can-
berra ought to, but won’t,
follow.
It wouldn’t dare.
Reparations in
Germany.
“Ek Dum”: There is consider-
able misunderstanding about
the exaction of reparations,
which has been under discussion
following the disagreements in
the Ruhr over the dismantling of
oil plants.
There is nothing unfair in
reparations. They represent the
appropriation by the victors of
the surplus of the guilty’ van-
quished over and above normal
needs.
The phase of reparations
which has caused most industrial
disturbance has been the dis-
mantling of plants which have
no true relation to German sur-
vival, but in which the German
public naturally feels an
alarmed proprietary interest.
It is natural that people of a
big industrial town, seeing one
of their plants taken down and
“How many more interruptions , Prendergast ?”
shipped away, must feel that it
will have a great economic
effect, but actually nearly all
plants which have been shipped
are primarily war plants for the
products of which there is little
or no German demand.
Left standing, most of them,
unless- allowed to produce and,
export in competition with the
Western Allies, would be as little
use to German economy as they
are when torn down.
In the British zone, to the
end of March, 600,000 tons of
plant had been dismantled and
about half of the material has
been divided among countries
entitled to it, the dismantling
work employing 12,000 Ger-
mans, about half of them un-
skilled.
The whole position of Ger-
man maintenance would be
easier if it were not for the
refugee problem, which is
scarcely understood outside the
circle of those who have to
wrestle with it.
There are more than 9,000,000
refugees in the British and
American zones, and nobody in
Germany seems to worry very
much about them except the
occupying forces, which have
good cause to worry.
More Thefts of Arms.
“Ek Dum”: For about the
dozenth time since the war it has
been reported that arms have
been stolen from military stores.
This time the thefts were
from the storeroom attached to
the Second Armored. Brigade
drill-hall at North Carlton
(Vic.), whence three Austens
without blocks and a fully-fitted
Bren were taken.
The last previous reported
theft was of two m.gs. and 10
magazines from the Q.M. store
at Essendon High School.
Police have changed their
minds about the first theory ad-
vanced, viz., that the thefts
were the work of boys. Pos-
sibly they have been reading the
first thesis of the Communist
party issued after the Miles-
Sharkey management took over
in Australia, one renewed at in-
tervals since:
When war comes the workers must
be prepared, not to boycott war by
refusal to render service or by in-
action or by pacifist means, but to
take advantage of the opportunity to
acquire arms and turn them to their
account. The workers alone can end
war by smashing for all time the
present cause of war —capitalism.
“K.”: The late Field-Mar-
shal Earl Haig, Commander-in-
Chief of the British Armies in
France in World War I, left at
his death instructions that pri-
vate papers, wherein he recorded
his views on the political con-
duct of the later campaigns in
France, should remain secret
while certain persons were still
living, or while international re-
lations might be disturbed by
publication. According to Mel-
bourne “Age’s” London corres-
pondent, Haig’s representatives
may shortly publish the papers if
official quarters don’t withhold
permission. His son, the second
earl, mentions particularly a
memorandum dealing with the
reasons why Haig was obliged
to pursue the costly British
offensive of Passchendaele, east
of Ypres, in 1917. It was be-
lieved at the time that the
British Commander-in-Chief had
also some high-explosive com-
ments on Lloyd George’s with-
holding of reserves in England
in the winter which preceded
the German offensive of March,
1918 —an offensive that nearly
wrecked the whole Allied battle-
front. A last-hour intervention
by British and French Govern-
ments produced a unified Allied
command under Marshal Foch,
and three months later the
Anglo-French Armies opened
the final victorious offensive.
* * * *
“The Turk”: After a long
and eventful turn in the salient
we were brought back near
Pilastrino, as we hoped, for a
rest. Our dreams were rudely
shattered on the second morn-
ing when we woke with shells
bursting round us. Some bright
spark had conceived the idea of
stretching a huge net over some
poles a mile or so in front of
us, to make Jerry think we were
hiding something, and the Hun
had taken the bait. From then
on all hours of the day and
night he shelled the net, while
we fielded the overthrows. We
were fast becoming nervous
wrecks when orders came for a
move back to the salient. Joe
and I volunteered as advance
party. “We’ll get a bit of peace
now,” he said as Forbes’s
Mound loomed up in the dark-
ness. “At least the blighters
keep union hours here.”
* * * ♦
Germany’s iron and steel
production has improved steadily
over the past few months, and
April set a record. Daily pro-
duction of steel ingots in
Bizonia was 27,850 tons daily,
with pig-iron output at 23,220
daily, this despite three days less
work in April than March. The
totals for the month were
705,000 tons of steel ingots and
568,842 tons of pig-iron. Ob-
viously Germany has a bigger
war potential in terms of steel
than Japan.
* * * *
It seems that one thing which
is not going to worry armies
much any more is rivers. In
March the U.S. and French
Armies had a little practice at
the job on the Rhine, and during
a single night bridged the river
in five separate places. The
crossings included an 1180 ft.
rigid pontoon four miles south
of Oppenheim, a 912 ft. tread-
way span at Oppenheim, a 720 ft.
modified Bailey bridge at
Buehl —which was laid down in
the record time of one hour 55
minutes —and two units which
the French constructed at
Speyer. The work wag done
under simulated aircraft attack.
* * * *
A little polite byplay on the
China war from Parliament:
Mr. Archie Cameron.-— I am
not sure whether my question
should be addressed to the
Prime Minister or the Minister
for the Navy, but, as the Minis-
ter for the Navy has already
answered two questions today,
he should have a week off. So
I ask the Prime Minister what
was the ultimate fate of the
British gunboat Amethyst, which
was fired on in the Yangtse
River by Chinese Communist
forces. I have not noticed any-
thing about it in the Press of
late.
Mr. Chifley. —l have no de-
tails about the final disposal of
Amethyst. I did discuss the
matter with the Admiral in
charge of that area on my way
back to Australia from Eng-
land. I understand that the gun-
boat was rather badly damaged
and that there was difficulty in
removing it from the position
that it occupied. It is not our
problem to inquire what the
Royal Navy does about its
ships, but 1 shall see if I can
obtain some information for the
honorable gentleman.


LARGEST
MUTUAL LIFE ASSURANCE
OFFICE IN
THE EMPIRE
fm:
SS
if
* s
i
(>IIIIIIIIWIII HMHI<
I
vK V
■
m
mm
mm
m
m
sit
KK-S
SS/
PS
.....
?-;iy
EARLY IN 1849
the A.M.P.’s first secretary
wrote the first policy in a one room
office in George Street, Sydney.
ONE HUNDRED YEARS AGO a group of public-
spirited colonists formed the A.M.P. in
Sydney. With no thought of personal gain, their
object was to make the benefits of life assurance
available to everyone. Today the society has
grown into the largest mutual life office in the
Empire. Today the sums assured in force have
reached the colossal total of nearly £550,000,000
. . . and in the first century of its life the A.M.P.
has already paid out nearly £250,000,000 to its
policyholders or their dependents. And today, as
in the past, all surplus is the property of the
policyholders. The A.M.P. is the largest mutual
life assurance office in the Empire.
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL
HEAD OFFICE:
SB
AMICUS CERTUS IN RE INCERTA
PROVIDENT SOCIETY
8 7 PITT ST., SYDNEY
DIRECTORS HEAD OFFICE: CECIL H. HOSKINS, Chairman; SIR FREDERICK H. TOUT, Deputy-Chairman ; WILLIAM A’,
MACKAY, DR. S. A. SMITH, S. G. ROWE, THE HON. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, SAMUEL HORDERN. General Manager : M. C. BUTTFIELD
S/68»


: l
r
€
There are times which
call for something better than the
merely very good , and demand the
unquestionable best. Where jq
cigarettes are concerned the man
of taste is guided by the
words 66 Benson & Hedges 9
Old Bond Street , London From
this famous address comes fine
tobacco perfection to satisfy all those
occasions when only the best will do.
s*l
0.
%
rfl
n
■
ji
m
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KINO
mss
m
Mm
m
&
tins of 20
M 3/-
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BY
BmsoNmJ Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
SUNDRY SHOWS
Only the type
of concertgoer who is never
satisfied unless a tenor is hitting
a spectacular high C every few
minutes, and who expects only
such fare as “La Donna e
Mobile” or “Because” would be
disappointed in the Sydney re-
citals of Rudolf Schock. The
German tenor fortunately has
other ideas, including the wise
one of conserving a very excel-
lent voice. Consequently his
programmes have consisted for
the most part of a culling from
the vast riches of German lieder.
In Schubert and Schumann, in
Brahms, Hugo Wolf and Richard
Strauss he has used his rich lyric
voice with fine artistry.
Mozart’s “Cradle Song,” sung
mezza ' voce throughout, was
just about perfect. But Schock
can turn on plenty of power
when he wants to. Usually he re-
serves the operatic fireworks for
the final group, and in widely
diversified arias by Donizetti,
Ponchielli and Tschaikowsky he
has given a taste of his quality.
* * * *
Australia’s first National
Ballet Company added two more
items to its repertoire last week
at Melbourne Princess, both of
indigenous creation. “Kalei-
doscope” was an ambitious
attempt by Laurel Martyn to set
a concerto written for quite an-
other purpose by James Pem-
berthy, the conductor, to the
language of physical motion.
Fifteen young men and maidens
formed geometrical patterns
and then shook themselves
up and made others, and none
of them had any more relation-
ship to any experience of the
observer ff than the patterns
formed in the kaleidoscopes be-
loved of our childhood, which
always ended, after the first
excitement, in boring us to
distraction.
Jean Alexander’s “Dance of
the Earth,” to Tschaikowsky
music, was even more ambitious
than Miss Martyn’s. Some of
the symbols weren’t always ade-
quate to the terrifying things
symbolised, but the choreo-
graphy had its moments.
“Aurora’s Wedding” was re-
peated' and it couldn’t have
been much better done.
* * * *
The first nationwide “con-
certo competition” was held at
Melbourne Town Hall under
Bernard Heinze’s baton, with Dr.
A- E. Floyd, William James and
others adjudicating, and with
finalists from all States partaking
in pianoforte, violin and sing-
ing items. The award went to
the brilliant young 17-year-old
Victorian violinist Donald
Weekes for his sensitive manipu-
lating of Beethoven’s Concerto
in D Major, Op 61.
* * * *
The remarkable progress made
by the Sydney Con. Opera
School, musically under Eugene
Goossens, and histrionically
under Mayne Lynton and Hilda
Mulligan, was fully demon-
strated in the production of
Verdi’s “Falstaff.” Principals
were first-rate, and of particular
merit were the “chattering” en-
sembles, given with a rare verve
and snap. It is here that the 80-
year-old Verdi’s score —nimble,
witty, brilliantly apt to the
characters—remains a wonder.
Bulk of the work fell on the
ample shoulders of James Wil-
son as the fat and fatuous
knight of the Garter Inn, and
his voice matched his padded
bulk. Gloria* Read, Rachel
Neale, Lorraine Davies, Lina
Belle, John Dudley and Ronald
Jackson were all well up to
good standard.
Thie Marlowe Society made a
hesitating beginning but finished
with an excellent attack on
Chekhov’s “The Seagull” at
Melbourne University’s Union
Theatre. It might have been
better if the cast hadn’t got it
into its collective head that there
was something symbolical about
it all. The play is so simple, and
at the same time subtle, that it
can only b£ played by actors
capable t of identifying them-
selves with the characters de-
picted. Vivianne Ashkanasy, as
the actress past her prime,
Dorothy Collopy as Nina, John
Bluthall as Konstantin and Judy
Lee as Masha got nearest to this
state of understanding.
* * * *
There is a striving after light
in most of Max Ragless’s show
of landscapes at Melbourne
Athenaeum, and if he doesn’t
always catch the nymph red-
handed, he often strikes off a
vista of trees or a glimpse of
ocean with some degree of fresh-
ness. He fails most when he
attempts a great expanse of
country. Generally speaking, an
effect in nature seldom lasts more
than 20 minutes, and the artist
who tries to cover several square
miles is apt to lose his first im-
pression and become topo-
graphical. There is more sin-
cerity in the smaller sketches.
* * * *
Ascher panels by Henry
Moore and Henri Matisse are
showing at David Jones’s Gal-
lery, Sydney. Henry goes in for
decapitated nudes and collaps-
ible prehistoric monsters ; Henri
for fragmentary birds and fish
and bits of seaweed. The draw-
ings are printed, in an enor-
mously enlarged form, on linen ;
the process is called “silk-
screen.” Women have so long
been wearing dismembered
birds on their heads and de-
ceased foxes round their necks
that they could probably wrap
their lovely limbs in these sacri-
ficial textiles with impunity;
but, beyond suggesting that ab-
stract art has found its proper
level, in these commercial de-
signs, the exhibition has no
artistic significance.
Len Annois is another modern
artist who seems to be obsessed
\yith the phenomenon of ero-
sion, and, as Russell Drysdale
has staked a claim on the out-
back, Annois is, willynilly,
driven to the coastline. The
titles of his show of watercolors
at George’s Gallery, Melbourne,
range from “Decaying Cliff
Structure” (in two parts),
“Marine Erosion” (also in two
parts), “Seaworn Timber”
(double version) and “Dead Sea
Bird” to two sketches entitled
“Driftwood.” The pictures have
as much relation to the artistic
problem as a police-reporter’s
description of a court case has
to a story by Dickens. Annois,
however, is completely in the
modern fashion, wherefore the
Felton Bequest has purchased
one of his samples of driftwood.
* * * *
Eureka Stockade, by Rex
Rienits (Convoy Publications,
London), a companion-book to
the film, illustrated by many stills
from it, supplies a deficiency
noted by The Bulletin film
critic, that Chips Rafferty didn’t
get a kiss from Jane Barrett dur-
ing the whole performance. In
the book (pp. 172-73), “his arms
enfolded her. ....they stood for
a moment, .pressed close. ...he
bent his head towards her, and
their lips met.” But Rafferty
seems to have been done out of
an even more dramatic moment.
right at the end of,the film: a
scene in the Victorian Legisla-
tive Council in January, 1856,
when the Speaker proposed a
memorial to the late Governor,
Sir Charles Hotham. Peter
Lalor then rose (page 206 and
said “....On the Slopes of
Eureka Hill there are thirty
crosses. These are a sufficient
an d an everlasting memorial to
Sir Charles Hotham.” And then,
en^s the book, “In silence Peter
Lalor left his seat and walked
out of the chamber”—an impres-
sive curtain, and no doubt it was
only after very great thought in
British film offices that they de-
cided to compromise by deleting
the scene and preserving the
silence.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of verse “My Hat.”—46sl.
To buy copy of Everyman’s Dic-
tionary and Roget’s Thesaurus. —4650.
Copy of Australian magazine con-
taining copy of short story “Len”
by Les Whyard, published about 15
years ago.-—4652.
Information Sought.
(1) How many tons of the 1948
season Q’ld sugar production was
acquired by that State’s Government ?
(2) Of the tonnage acquired, how
much represented the quantity de-
clared for home consumption in Aus-
tralia? (3) Declared prices for last
season Q’ld sugar? (4) Has any
price guarantee from the British
Ministry of Food been given ? (5)
Was the export price higher than
home-consumption price for the 1947
season?
(1) Approximately 909,600 tons 94
net titre. (2) About 469,000 tons.
(3) Home consumption, £A23 Is. per
ton 94 n.t.; surplus, £A2B 2s. per ton
94 n.t. (4) No. Prices are re-
negotiated annually. (5) Yes.
* * * *
How to tan skins with alum ?
Stretch the skin tightly on a board,
the hair side downwards, and tack it
in place by the edges. Scrape off the
flesh and fat with a blunt knife and
work in some ordinary chalk freely,
with plenty of hard rubbing. When
the chalk begins to powder and fall
off, remove the skin from the board
and rub in plenty of powdered alum.
Then wrap up closely and keep in a
dry place for.a few days;
* * * *
What causes conjunctivitis, and
treatment for the complaint ?
The conjunctiva or white of the
eye is subject to inflammation of
various degrees according to nature
and cause of the infection. Any
irritant, such as a speck of dust, may
cause trouble, but true conjunctivitis,
involving the lids, can usually be
traced to a bacteria or germ infec-
tion. Treatment depends upon diag-
nosis. Apart from local antiseptics,
drops, etc., either vitamin or sulpha-
drugs could be prescribed internally
as an indirect treatment. In certain
cases the latter is necessary.
**> * *
(1) A good filler for inlaid wood-
work prior to french-polishing?
(2) In the case of an unsatisfactory
job could filler be applied if old
polish is scraped off?
(1) The usual filler is fine plaster
of Paris rubbed in wet and wiped up
quickly, as it dries fast. Fine inlaid
work may be filled with a solution
of white shellac in methylated spirit,
applied warm with a brush, dried,
sandpapered and treated again; or
warm beeswax in turpentine may be
rubbed in. and rubbed off several
times. In inlaid work the different
woods react differently to fillers, some
being more porous than others, some
containing acids, etc. Experiment on
spare bits of wood first. (2) Yes, if
scraping gets to the bottom of the
old polish, but wood might have to
be re-dressed to get it all out. The
nature of the woods themselves deter-
mines results; experience is the only
guide to special jobs.
Brief Answers.
C.K.: R. Towns and Co. Pty., Ltd.,
31 Reiby-place, Sydney, will forward
you a copy of their centenary book-
let (1842-1942), which contains in-
formation regarding the life of
Robert Towns, upon receipt of your
name and address.,.. .H.E.S.: Write
John Young, 3 Castlereagh-street,
Sydney N.A.K.: Copies of the
Authors and Artists’ Marketing
Guide are obtainable from G. R.
Pittaway and E. A. Churcher, Box
28, Post Office, Collins-street, Mel-
bourne W.M.G.: From informa-
tion Service, Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research, 119 Phillip-
street, Sydney A.McC.: The lines
are from Kenneth Mac Kay’s poem
“The Song That Men Should Sing,”
which is included in his book Songs
of a Sunlit Land. .. .P.W.: The lines
are from Cyril E. Goode’s “The
Ballad of Lost Children,” which is
to be found in his book The Bridge
Party at Boyanup, published by J.
Roy Stevens, Melbourne T.H.M.:
Sid Godfrey was born at Raglan
(N.S.W.) on August 20, 1897. He
won the Australian lightweight cham-
pionship when he beat Llew Edwards
and Harry Stone in 1921. Hughie
Dwyer beat Godfrey for this title....
J.H.8.; Broad meaning of the phrase
is the general level of prices of raw
materials. There is no internationally-
accepted index of these prices, but
approximate variations to the reserve
price could doubtless be made in
line with general movements
N.G.: In most cases the Government
has been responsible, through its
Capital Issues Control Board. The
principles and standards followed
have never been clearly stated, and
have sometimes appeared to be in-
consistent. The board purports to
prevent “excessive” investment relative
to resources available at any one
time. Premiums seem to be regarded
as a check; and it is also claimed
that they help to keep down the rate
of interest on public loans, by reduc-
ing the effective yield on new shares.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
8.K.: If it’s about a tree there
are too many musical terms in
it, and if it’s about music there is
too much botany R.M.: It
doesn’t say anything new, yet there’s
enough freshness in the writing to
make it interesting J.P.: Promis-
ing if you are young... .RJ.McL.:
Amidst the confusion of the verses
and the untidiness of the typing there
does appear a vague glimmer of
genuine talent 8.N.W.: “I doubt
the effectiveness of my method.” And
with reason G.R.W.: She’s a bit
ramshackle S.L.R.; Spoilt by the
sentimental stanza about the wind.
G.P.; What with your praise,
and the crimson initial capitals of
your poem, it is a red-letter day for
us... .Jacobus: “The enclosed bit of
satire is about my final effort at
rhyming, as I am now 90; but one
never knows.” Well, we salute you.
J.L.: “What turns men into
beasts?” Poetry.. . .8.A.C.: Yet,
it has merit K.R.: Sorry, a good
corporal, but no story E.W.C.:
Dazzled us with science, but not art.
Bellerive: Twas a tragic mys-
tery :
ẁ
THE WRECK OF THE WARATAH.
Under the breakers of *
The deep ocean afar
Grimly lie the wreckage
Of the huge Waratah.
Tragically lost with
Tier voyagers and crew
Somewhere away out
Upon the waters blue.
Sadly illfated was
The spacious ship
While cleaving her way
On a outbound trip.
Of the ghastly wreck
Of the long ago
Skeletons and frates
Lie deep below.


tv-C&lv
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASE
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. That's why a Globlt®
costs less in the long run.
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
BETWEEN
YOU AND
THE 'FLU...
Thousands of people, who go through every winter free from
colds and ’flu, can testify to the remarkable remedial proper-
ties of Wolfe’s Schnapps. For Wolfe’s Schnapps has been
known throughout the world for generations ... as a pure
spirit, a safe stimulant and diuretic, and a beverage with
medicinal qualities found in no other spirit.
It’s the pleasant way to avoid winter ills. Many prefer
Wolfe’s Schnapps with ice-cold water, others enjoy it with
soft drinks or cordials. But, in winter time, for colds and
’flu, try it in a hot lemon drink at bedtime. Wolfe’s Schnapps
is available in large, half and quarter size bottles. Start the
“small bottle tost” . . . to-day 1
WOLFE’S cfhmdk SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
ẃ
a
foiwflll
§teiwiC
•:
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
8-2
Ancestors of
an Industry
W. H. Fox Talbot is universally ac-
knowledged to have been the father of modern
photography. Though he did not take the first
photograph, he invented the Calotype process,
which made it possible for any number of
positives or “prints” to be made from a single
negative.
It is on this process that all modern photography
has been buik. Born at Melbury in Dorset in
1800, Fox Talbot was a man with remarkably
wide interests. Though primarily a mathema-
tician, a subject in which he took an honours
degree at Cambridge University in IS2I, he was
also a chemist, a botanist and a philologist. He
spoke fluent French, and could read German,
Hebrew, Gaelic, Welsh, Polish, Wendish (an
obscure Slavonic language) and Russian. With
Sir Henry Rawlinson, he was a pioneer trans-
lator of the Assyrian Cuneiform inscription's. His
mathematical attainments earned him the Fellow-
ship of the Royal Society in 1831, and he repre-
sented the Chippenham Division of Wiltshire in
the Parliament that passed the Reform Bill of
1832. In 1854 he threw open his patents on the
Calotype process, taken out fourteen
years ealier. and thus initiated the
developments which have led from
the daguerreotype to the great
photographic industry of today.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
————————— in—
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Almost continuously throughout
last week Sydney was at holts with
the sticky end of a cyclone, out of
which it stopped some 10 inches
of rain, and on neither Thursday
nor Friday was there the slightest
sign of the weather clearing. Yet a
morning paper on Friday quoted a
Sydney Turf Club official as having
said: “The meeting will definitely
be held between now and Satur-
day a few hours of dry weather, with
a wind, would mean that the track
would be in good form for racing..
even if the rain doesn’t ease off it
won’t be heavy it might be hold-
ing, but that’s all.” Alas, this
optimism was all in vain. On
Saturday, Moorefield was fit only for
a meeting of the Model Yacht Club,
and the races were postponed to today.
* * * *
In Melbourne, racing over the past
week or so has dashed the hopes of
another tribe of optimists—those who
take early doubles on major races.
Contesting Saturday’s Toolambool
Hurdle at Caulfield Promise You
broke down —he had been favorite
for the Grand National Hurdle since
weights were issued. At Flemington
the previous Monday the same fate
befell Gallant Gentleman, who had
been just as strongly fancied for the
second leg of the Nationals. At time
of writing new for the
double were Faunus and Footling.
The Toolambool Hurdle was par-
ticularly disastrous for punters, most
of whom regarded it as a match race
between Promise You and Forfar;
both came to grief at the last jump
but one, Forfar being destroyed. The
race was won by Royal Title (K.
Denham). The winner gave a very
patchy display of jumping, but was
much too strong at the finish for
Man o’ War and Midhurst, to whom
Royal Title was conteding, respec-
tively, 221 b. and 161 b. Royal Title
carried 10.13 —51b. more than he has
in the National; he is an aged son
of Duke John and trained by A. H.
Oliver.
Flush with the proceeds from
Royal Title, who started at 7 to 1,
followers of the Oliver stable backed
Walladale from tens down to 13 to 2
in the Wanda Steeple (19f.). With
K. Denham again in the saddle,
Walladale bowled along leisurely in
the early stages, but moved up sharply
into third place behind John Mase-
field and Mt. Howitt with about six
furlongs to go. Although Mt. Howitt
was in the picture for a while the
race, from that point, developed into
a battle between Walladale and Briar.
Briar had the advantage over the last
jump, but Walladale gradually wore
him down to win by a half-length.
Making up a great deal of ground
over the last half-mile to finish third,
Shot By indicated that he will appre-
ciate the longer journey of the
National, for which he is weighted at
9.6.
Adding to the long list of horses
that have shown great improvement
after suffering a bleeding attack,
Chatsol (D. Barclay), at 20 to 1,
took the Richmond Handicap (12f.);
at Flemington the previous Monday
he bled and finished stone-last. In
Saturday’s race Chatsol gained a
perfect run to finish strongly from
behind, and had too much of an
edge in the weights for the favorite,
Vantage, who was beaten three-parts
of a length. Vantage carried 9.5
and Chatsol 7.6. Blue Legend, with
8.4, was a close third. Chatsol,
incidentally, may tackle the Grand
National Hurdle, in whieh he has
10.2. At one time and another the
Solar Bear gelding has done a fair
deal of schooling.
Undaunted by the failure of top-
weight Vantage on the heavy track,
punters made Chanak, with 9.5,
favorite for the Rosny Plate. Star
Port (L. Lott), with Bst., made a
procession of the Rosny, leading all
the way to beat Chanak by three
lengths at the finish, with High Pro-
duction third. Apart from other con-
siderations, lack of recent experience
was against Chanak’s winning—it was
his first run in some eight months,
and he should be much benefited by
it. Also lumping a tidy burden,
Denhoti (9.4) ran a surprisingly poor
race in the Rosny, but intentions still
were to take him north for a crack
at the Doomben Ten Thousand.
.*,- * * *
Owner-trainer Ray Formosa must
have considered his freak sprinter
San Domenico much in need of a
gallop to run him, as he did, with a
plaster of 9.7 on a heavy track
at Doomben on Saturday. San
Domenico was not disgraced to finish
the closest of thirds in the Flying,
behind the lightly-weighted local
horses Lucky Ring and Ballyvista —
both Stradbroke winners. Neverthe-
less, the race may have indicated how
San Domenico is likely to fare in
the Ten Thousand, where he is asked
to concede an unreasonable amount
of weight to a host of very good
sprinters, Saturday’s Flying was a
real thriller, with four horses going
head-and-head down the straight; at
the post it was a neck to Bally vista,
a short-head to San Domenico and
a neck to Colleague. Each carrying
substantial overweight, Lucky Ring
(R. Conquest) had 7.11, Ballyvista 7.5
and Colleague 8.5. Lucky Ring, who
won this year’s Stradbroke, is a three-
year-old colt by Laureate-Queen Buzz
—staying blood which would always
be to his advantage in a hard-fought
finish.
* * * *
Concluding their inquiry into the
running of Bronze Laddie in the
Hopetoun Steeple at Flemington,
V.R.C. stewards accepted the explana-
tions of all concerned, but told jockey
Ron Hall that they considered he
should have used more vigor in
his handling of the horse.
* * * s *
Entries closed on Monday for the
Grafton Cup (10|f.) and Ramorme
Handicap (6f.), run at the Clarence
River Jockey Club’s always excellent
July meeting —over July 13, 14 and
16. The Ramornie is worth £4OO,
the Cup £1250, and weights will be
issued next Monday. In an unfor-
tunately large number of country
districts where racing once flourished,
local meetings have degenerated into
mere venues for legally betting on
metropolitan racing, but the Clarence
(liver Club, with its lady secretary
Miss K. O’Mara, maintains a tip-top
standard.
* * *
A long-standing record went west
in Tasmania recently when one Bill
Emmerton, evidently dissatisfied with
modern transport facilities, covered
the 11-miles run from Perth to Laun-
ceston in 55min. 7|sec. The previous
record of 58min. 45sec. was notched
up by an Englishman in 1874, when
the cult of Shanks’s pony necessarily
had rather more devotees.
* * * *
Melbourne “Sporting Globe” is so
much obsessed with football at the
moment—and no lover of Aussie
Rules could blame it —that in record-
ing Roger Bannister’s mile in 4min.
ll.lsec. in America it announced
that he had “Beat Umpire Games
Record.” It meant the Empire
Games mile record of 4min. 11.6 sec.
put up by J. W. Alford (Wales) in
Sydney in 1938. Bannister is ,311
Oxfqrd Uni. man with an English
Uni.’ team in America. Incidentally,
he ran an 880 in Imin. 52.75ec.
* * * *
In a warm-up for the Wimbledon
matches, which commenced on Mon-
day, the Australian tennis tourists
competed in the Queen’s Club
(London) Championships—with mixed
luck. Most were short of a gallop,
and may still find themselves below
peak at Wimbledon. Only Bromwich
reached the semi-finals; he was de-
feated by Mulloy, who then went
down to his fellow-American
Schroeder. Rather unfortunately,
Schroeder and Mulloy were drawn to
meet in the first round at Wimbledon.
The Queen’s Club doubles final was
an all-Australian affair, Brown and
Sidwell surprising by eliminating
Mulloy-Schroeder in the semi-final
and surprising even more by downing
Bromwich-Sedgman 6-3, 6-8, 6-4 in
the final. The mixed doubles, too,
was an Australian show, Brown and
Miss Fitch beating Worthington and
Mrs. Long.
* * * *
Last week English cricket, enthu-
siasts sampled both the quick and the
dead as served up by the touring
New Zealanders. Showing high dis-
dain for the more usual dreary busi-
ness of playing for a draw, the N.Z.
left-handers Sutcliffe and Donnelly
slaughtered the opposition bowling to
knock up 50 in 10 minutes against
Hampshire; they won the match by
seven wickets after a draw had
seemed a foregone conclusion. After
that effort Sutcliffe could be excused
the more orthodox manner in which
he dealt with Surrey’s bowling at the
Oval on Saturday. Contributing to a
first-wicket partnership of 229, Sut-
cliffe scored 187 in five hours.
* * * *
Managing to keep their heads
above the mud which engulfed the
ground, the Maoris withstood a deter-
mined finishing effort by the N.S.W.
Rugby Union team at Newcastle on
Saturday. With the final score 11-9,
the visitors maintained their winning
sequence, and they look to have a
fair chance of going through the tour
undefeated —next Saturday’s third
Test at the Sydney Cricket Ground
will decide it.
Most of Melbourne forgot its
coal-strike troubles on Saturday to
concentrate on the Richmond-Col-
lingwood football match, one or
other having to drop out of “the
four” if Fitzroy and North Melbourne
won. Richmond had old Jack Dyer
for captain—he was playing his 306th
game, equalling “Snitch” Coventry’s
record of games in the V.F.L. —but
’Wood’s small men were too fast
and too clever; the Magpies booted
six goals to two in the third quarter
and held off the Tigers to win,
16.8-16.5, remarkable shooting on
both sides.' Meantime, Melbourne
astonished itself, its followers, and
pretty well everybody else, by down-
ing the all-conquering Carlton,
12.14-11.12, and Fitzroy having a 3-
point (10.10-8.19) win over Essendon,
and North running all over South,
18.25-6.9, left Carlton and Colling-
wood on top, Fitzroy and North next,
Richmond and Melbourne just below
them. Footscray walloped St. Kilda
and Geelong belted Hawthorn. Next
Saturday it’s Vic. and W.A. in an
inter-State tussle which should pack
M.C.G.
* * * ♦
Frenchman Marcel Cerdan’s reign
as middleweight champion of the
world was a short one. Winning this
11.6 title by t.k.o.ing Tony Zale in
New York on September 21, 1948,
Cerdan lost it when Jake Lamotta
stopped him in nine rounds at
Detroit last Thursday night. Reput-
edly a powerful puncher, Cerdan hit
Lamotta on. vital spots with his
weightiest wallops, but the boy from
the Bronx (where Lamotta was born
27 years ago) took everything on
tap, and was leading on points at
end of round nine. Cerdan could
not come up for the tenth. -
Eugene Criqui, another Frenchman,
who fought in Australia nearly 30
years ago, had an even shorter title-
tenure than Cerdan. Knocking out
Johnny Kilbane in six rounds at
New York on June 2, 1923, Criqui
won the world’s featherweight
championship; he lost it when
Johnny Dundee outpointed him over
15 rounds on July 26, less than two
months later.
Lamotta’s win over Cerdan meant
the return of another world title to
U.S.A.; all but two of the world
championships are now held by
American boxers.. The other cham-
pions are: Flyweight, Rinty Mono-
ghan (Ireland); bantam, Manuel
Ortiz (U.S.A.); feather, Willie Pep
(U.S.A.); lightweight, Ike Williams
(U.S.A.); welterweight, Ray Robin-
son (U.S.A.); and light-heavyweight
Freddie Mills (England). Joe Louis
(U.S.A.) relinquished the heavyweight
championship after beating Jersey
Joe Walcott last year, and his suc-
cessor may be Walcott or Ezzard
Charles (who clash in Chicago
tonight), or the winner of the Bruce
Woodcock v. Lee Savojd match in
London next month.
The British Board of Boxing Con-
trol has agreed to recognise the
Woodcock-Savold winner as world
heavyweight champion, but all U.S.
boxing commissions (except New
York) claim that whoever wins the
Walcott-Charles contest should be
accredited world’s heavyweight cham-
pion.
The bout between Johnny Gleeson
(8.4|) and Jimmy Hogg (Bst.) at
Leichhardt was a one-sided affair,
with Gleeson far too full of fight
for his lighter opponent. Gleeson
dropped his man well and truly in
the second round, but the bell saved
Hogg, who then made a very game
recovery to see out the full distance
of 12 rounds; but he was soundly
beaten on points.


For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
re
*
'tv
7:he
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate \WII be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton APIA
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0.. Sydney
BP2-49
c
u
aafiyiGL?
«y
fx ft
wdk
In your favourite shape
at all good stores.
Priced at 36/-.
Flawlessly crafted in
England of age old
Druyere and distin-
guished for its rich grain
and superb finish, the
“Sasieni” is truly perfec-
tion in pipecraft. In-
built, too, is the patented
“Sasieni” moisture trap,
which assures a mellow,
dry, satisfying smoke.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITEi
Branches in all
a
%
%
M.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
”DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS”
News to Stud-breeders.
“Outback”: Dr. A. L. Hage-
doorn, noted Dutch geneticist,
told the N.S.W. Sheepbreeders’
Association that individual selec-
tion of sires was of doubtful
value and questioned whether
the buying of a ram at a sale
was a good way of improving
a flock. Rather than spend a
big sum on a single animal he
believes a breeder should spend
an equivalent amount on a sire
and some ewes as the nucleus of
a genetically-pure breeding flock,
from which to produce inbred
sires. Progeny-testing is the
only way to determine whether
a ram is good or bad, and even
with progeny-testing definite
standards of measurement are
required. With “closed” flocks
and the use of sires genetically
pure for the most valuable in-
herited factors it should be pos-
sible, he said, to develop unifor-
mity to the point where culls
were a rarity.
“Many factors such as size
and shape, as well as quantity,
evenness, and quality of wool,
are partly inherited, partly en-
vironmental. That is another
reason why it is impossible to
tell the quality of a sire merely
by looking at him.” Asked
whether, in inbreeding, a ram
could be crossed on its g.g.-
daughters, Dr. Hagedoorn said
he always advocated its applica-
tion on a wide basis—not the
use of a single ram but 10 rams,
thereby increasing the chances of
getting one that would repro-
duce successfully. By inbreed-
ing and selecting for vigor, size,
conformation, quality of wool—
always bracketing them together
and not concentrating on one
factor —breeders would succeed.
In reply to another question
Dr. Hagedoorn said that, as a
scientist, he was more con-
cerned in co-operating with the
man who wanted to see that all
the sheep in the country were
worth keeping rather than the
man who wanted to produce one
perfect ram that would bring,
say, 1200 guineas. The more a
breeder strove for fancy points
the more difficulties he built up
for himself; the more they
looked at fancy points the greater
the tendency to exclude the
points which really mattered.
All that was needed was to have
a nucleus of high-class progeny-
tested, genetically-pure stock in-
side the bigger studs.
Crossbreds in Riverina.
“Pat O’Day”; The Wagga
(N.S.W.) country, average alti-
tude 800 ft., average rainfall
21. Sin., is ideal for crossbreds,
and in the eastern portion (where
the rainfall increases up to 24in.
per year) the use of sub.-clover
makes even small areas payable
under proper management.
The Corriedale is always safe
for the man without much capi-
tal who has to get the maximum
out of his small acreage. The
eyes yield a good comeback wool
and lambs, whether pure or
crossbred, make vigorous growth
and are early-maturing. One
man, on a little under 2000
acres, consults the sheep-sales-
man of his wool firm in Sydney
and frequently attends Fleming-
ton sheep sales. Thus he keeps
himself familiar with wool
trends and lamb-buyers’ de-
mands. So, when he had young
Border-Leicester ewes lamb to
Southdown rams, the wool man
suggested keeping the ewe por-
tion of the lambs (their mothers
being Borders possessing fine,
bright wool) and selling the
wether portion at from six
to eight months as the oppor-
tunity occurred. But for next
joining (November or Decem-
ber) he’ll use Corriedale rams to
ensure a more uniform type of
lamb. Next year, after rearing
of the lambs, the B.L. ewes will
be sold, and Romney ewes will
be tried, joining these, together
with the 1949 drop of first-cross
Border-Southdowns, to Romney
rams. It sounds like a compli-
cated programme, but the man is
doing well and his neighbors
watch his breeding moves with
interest.
Seed Potatoes.
“Rooster”; “S pu and” (B.
25/5/’49) knows his potatoes,
but his argument 'is strictly from
the point of view of a potato-
cocky. My advice was intended
for the mixed farmer. Obvi-
ously, if you’re going all out on
potatoes, trays or racks would
be a simpler method.
As to my method of seed
selection, would “Spud” care
to know whence I procured
my last supply of certified seed?
Incidentally, certified or not, I
sell right out every three years,
sometimes alternate years, to
buy up fresh certified seed. The
lot I bought in 1947 (Early
Carmens) were of grade stand-
ard class. Origin was Leon-
gatha, Gippsland. This is the
highest form of guarantee for
seed potatoes. Growers of them
have their crops inspected at
least twice a year in the pad-
dock, and they must conform to
the standard of purity and free-
dom from disease required under
the Victorian Seed Potato Certi-
fication Scheme.
I can assure “Spud” that
grade round seed from the initial
crop is quite as prolific as the
cut seed. In the Leongatha
strain cut seed yielded 302 bags
per acre, the round seed 288
bags per acre. This was the
initial crop. Last season I
selected from the same strain,
but broke up a fresh paddock for
“ Harder, Alby—just coming to a hairpin bend!”
planting. Even allowing for the
new ground the result was pro-
digious—372 bags per acre from
both round and cut seed. This
would warrant a third replanting.
However, I’m again selling out
of them, to buy fresh certified
seed from the Colac area.
As for strong shoots, he would
be an indifferent sort of spud-
farmer who would plant weak-
lings. But strong shoots are not
entirely indicative of healthy,
vigorous tubers. For example,
here in Gippsland during the
current season, conditions have
been favorable for bacterial wilt
disease, with the result that many
growers whose crops normally
attain the required standards for
certified growers are this year
not on the list. The only way to
avoid this is to plant clean seed
on clean land; the varieties
Sebago and Sequoia are particu-
larly subject to wilt. When you
buy certified seed make sure that
they are contained in sealed
bags bearing an official label.
Sugar Varieties.
“Te Kowai”; “Sarina” (B.
18/5/ ’49) is wrong in a number
of his statements, and in all
fairness to Q. 28 these should be
corrected. In 1946 it constituted
over 40 p.c. of the Mackay dis-
trict crop, and was actually
second on the list for the whole
State. It has been a valuable
cane to the district. Q. 28 is
worth space on any farm.
Wallaby damage occurred in
certain areas, and naturally the
main variety grown would ap-
pear to be the most affected. If
a variety other than Q. 28 was
grown the wallabies would
damage it under similar condi-
tions, but if figures were kept
the actual damage for the dis-
trict would be very small com-
pared with the tonnage of cane
grown.
Main points which need cor-
rection are on Q. 28 disease
and use of “rubbishy” planting
material. It has been estab-
lished (not suggested) that the
poor crops of Q. 28 in the
Mackay district over the past
six years have been due to a
transmissable disease. Setts of
healthy Q. 28 inoculated with
juice from poor Q. 28 in 1947
produced poor ratoons, whilst
the ratoons from non-inoculated
setts remained healthy. The
disease may be spread by means
of knives, etc. Fortunately
farmers do not agree with
“Sarina’s” contention that “any
old rubbishy” Q. 28 has been
found to make best planting
material, as it is a well-known
fact that “good stock begets
good stock.”
In the case of 0-28 disease
there is one important control;
it is necessary to select planting
material from healthy, well-
grown, even crops which have a
satisfactory history. Plants
from well-grown ratoon cane
have been found to give yields
equal to those from plant cane,
and are safer from disease.
Moth Trap.
“Blackie”; Electric light for
the destruction of codlin-moth
has been adopted successfully
by a Lindisfarne (Tas.)
orchardist. The idea of using
artificial light was conceived 16
years ago, when he experi-
mented with a candle lantern.
The effect, even on a small
scale, was impressive. With the
advent of electric power the
orchardist used it to provide the
light to lure the moths to de-
struction.
When moths are about he
burns 10 25c.p. lights from
dusk to dawn. Power leads of
up to 200 ft. in length are run
from the apple-packing shed
through the orchard, and lights
are spaced at intervals of about
150 ft., or according to the
density of the moths. The
globes are hung from tree-
branches, allowing the light to
swing about 9in. above a large
tray of water standing about
4ft. above the ground. The
water is filmed with oil, so that
the moths are held when they
flutter into the water.
Up to 100 codlin moths have
been caught in a night, but
other kinds would run into
thousands. By catching the
moth before it lays its eggs
damage to fruit by grubs is
lessened considerably. Destruc-
tion of even one moth prevents
production of hundreds.
Best Dairy Breed?
“Nubis”: The claim (B,
27 / 4/’49) that the Jersey is the
best producer of butterfat is
supported by results in W.A.
(1946-47), when the top three
tested mature cows were all
Jerseys, with 754, 737 and 6451 b.
respectively. The top three
senior fours were also all Jer-
seys, two of them over 5001 b;
junior fours, two Jerseys, over
5001 b., followed by a Guern-
sey, 4911 b.; senior threes, two
Jerseys, over 5001 b., followed
by an A. 1.5., 4981 b,; junior
threes, a Jersey, 5511 b., a Guern-
sey and an A.I.S. ;* senior twos,
a Jersey, 4911 b., and
two Guernseys; and
junior twos, a Jersey,
5231 b., a Guernsey
and a Jersey. Of the
21 places, 14 were
filled by Jerseys, five
by Guernseys and two
by A.I.S.
Breed averages, ex-
cluding those that did
not complete their
273 days, and making
no allowance for age,
were; Jersey, 3491 b.;
Guernsey, 3331 b .;
A. 1.5., 2931 b. Per-
centages completing
273 days were: Jersey
78, Guernsey 75 and A.I.S. 66.
Unfortunately, reasons for non-
completion are not given, but
the inference is that culling for
disease, or low production, is
considerably lower in the Jer-
sey breed than in the A.I.S.
The belief that Jerseys are
delicate is a myth, probably
originating in their finer and
less robust appearance. Eighty
per cent, of the cows in the
South Island (N.Z.), with its
rigorous winter, are Jerseys. In
W.A. Jerseys stand up to a
severe winter just as well as any
other breed, and it is my
opinion that they do better
than other breeds under severe
summer conditions.
Nevertheless', I believe that
averages can be misleading, as
they ignore such factors as farm
management, soil fertility and
climatic conditions. Any of the
recognised breeds will do well
if given a chance. I’m a Jersey
man, but I can admire the
qualities of other breeds.


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Nu-METAL
saves
ẅ
w
Just pour RE-NU liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-.
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name,
Address
8.22/6/M9
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250.
ill
’■ik
te
an
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
*Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
. .. your wool could receive
no greater attention, for A.M.L.&F. experts are at work
in your interests at every stage—valuing, lotting and
displaying your wool to the best advantage. You are
always assured of the best possible price when the
“A.M.L.&F. man” sells
your wool!
86 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND. 1563.
A.M.ft£.jli
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches—N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ltl: Townsville,
Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbancli. Assoc. Agents:
McPWe & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Plttsworth.
LANES
DOC
TRAPS
.I''
7 />
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
8" Jaws
Folding Springs
OBTAINABLE FROM
ALL STORES &
PASTORAL SUPPLY HOUSES
NOW comes
n S
m
ft
D
T
i
'
Mi
«K»:: ;
' *: t. ',- _
The NEW! _
all-purpose board with NEW advantages
C.S.R. Hardboard is a scien-
tific product of nature’s own
wood fibres.
Stronger, more versatile,
easy to work, it lends itself to
every artistic home conception
and industrial use where a
building board is needed.
Build . . . modernise with
to-day’s Most Beautiful
Building Board .
Modern Home Interiors,
Verandah Sleepouts, Bed-
room Cupboards, Kitchen
Cupboards, Display Counters
and Cases, Furniture, Toys,
Bus Interiors, etc.
C.S.R. Hardboard
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD., Building Materials Division
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
Oil-consumption.
“Nubis”: Main causes of
heavy consumption are worn
cylinders, worn main bearings or
leakages. Heavy blue smoke
from the exhaust indicates
cylinder wear. New rings or a
rebore is the answer. Leakage
at both ends of the sump indi-
cates worn main bearings. In
this case there is usually also a
loud knocking under load.
Before undertaking expensive
repairs check for leakages.
Check the sump—if it has been
bolted up too tightly it will
have buckled between the bolts,
allowing oil to escape. The
same applies to the valve cover
of overhead valves. Check also
the junction of the fuel-pump to
the engine (the flange may be
distorted, due to tightening one
bolt at a time) and the external
oil pipes.
Black Spot in Cows.
. “M.”; Black spot usually
attacks a cow before she calves,
appearing as a dark scab near
the teat-opening. It will spread
if untreated and put the cow out
of production. Starting a fort-
night before she’s due to calve,
soak her teats in a solution of
sodium hypochlorite (two table-
spoonfuls in 4gals, of water)
daily. If preventive treatment is
too late foment the parts with a
hot solution of permanganate of
potash, thoroughly dry and
apply acriflavine or monacrin
ointment. Try either of these
ointments: One part of sali-
cylic acid in 10 parts of vase-
line or one part of powdered
bluestone in 10 parts of
petroleum jelly.
Milk for Fowls.
“Urana”: If you have milk to
Spare for your fowls it is better
to mix their mash with it rather
than give it to them in dishes.
In this way it is shared equally
and you know that all the birds
are benefiting. When placed for
them to drink, the bullies will
take most and some fowls may
not bother going near it.
Another w r ay is to let the milk
sour and then boil it. The whey
is used to mix the mash and the
curd served separately. This, of
course, means much more work.
Keep slabs of concrete or
sheets of iron in the yards on
which to place the mash, if you
do not own proper hoppers.
There is no waste through the
moisture soaking into the
ground, and the yards are kept
sweeter than if food is constantly
thrown on the ground.
Sorghum-growing Hindered.
“Longjon”: It is reported that
1,000,000 bushels of grain
sorghum, an excellent stock feed,
could easily be grown in the In-
verell-Moree district (N.S.W.) if
only the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment would make up its
mind whether growers can con-
tinue to export 50 p.c. of their
crop to assure a satisfactory
price. This season only about
15,000 bushels will be harvested
in that district because the Gov-
ernment did not grant the export
licence until December last,
when it was too late to influence
the amount sown.
Apricot Scab.
“Myrr”; In tests in the Goul-
burn Valley (Vic.) the percentage
of fruit infected with scab was
reduced from 77 p.c. on un-
sprayed trees to 2 p.c. on trees
given a spray of 6:4:40 Bor-
deaux. This was applied as the
final leaves were falling (about,
end of May) and again at the
pink-bud stage (about mid-
August). For commercial
growers the Bordeaux is pre-
pared' by dissolving 121 b. of
finely-crystalline' bluestone in
72gal. of water in an 80gal.
spray-vat. Mix in another con-
tainer 121 b. of hydrated lime
with Bgal, of water, start the
agitators on the vat and slowly
pour in the lime solution.
If a small quantity of spray is
required (say, lOgal.) dissolve
Hlb. of bluestone in sgal. of
water in a non-mctallic vessel.
Mix separately lilb. of hydrated
lime or lib. of quicklime in
another sgal. of water. Then
mix the two solutions and spray
out immediately. Effectiveness
is reduced if it’s allowed to lie
unused for hours.
Hints for the Farm.
“Beroo”: Some of the newer
varieties of Mauritius, or velvet-
beans, are proving useful in
Queensland coastal areas as long-
term summer cover crops.
Although rather slow away, they
are drought-resistant, the heavy
vines are not unduly difficult to
plough-in and their yields of
green matter are much better
than cowpeas. Best of the new-
comers are Black Mauritius,
Somerset and Jubilack.
“Billjim”: Best place to store
sweet-potatoes during winter is
a warm shed or cellar, but see
that the tubers are placed in dry
sawdust or dry sand. Keep them
safe from rats. Lined storage
containers used year after year
should be sprayed with a fungi-
cide before use. A suitable
spray is copper sulphate, £lb. to
12gal. of water.
“Nubis”: When treating seeds
with hot water, use a kerosene-
tin fitted with a lid in which are
two holes. Heat the water to
the correct temperature, which
varies with different seeds, but
is usually between 118 degrees
and 122 degrees F. Suspend the
seed in a cheesecloth in the
water through one of the holes
and suspend a thermometer
through the other. Maintain
the temperature throughout the
steep by adding hot water as re-
quired. After treatment, spread
out thinly in the shade to dry.
“C.A.A.”: American farmers
have successfully fattened pigs,
poultry and cattle by chemically-
treated sawdust. Meat from
stock so fed has proved as tasty
and tender as from animals eat-
ing a normal diet. Produced by
acid-treatment of sawdust and
wood waste the new substance
is something like molasses. It
contains about 50 per cent,
sugar and a small amount of
soybean.
“W. Court”: Though you
may be no mechanic, learn to
take your machines to pieces so
that you can take faulty parts
into town for repairs. Repair-
men charge heavily for running
out into the country to pick up
broken machines ; besides, you
may wait days for them to make
the trip.
“Cam”: For curly-leaf on
peaches and nectarines, rust on
cherries and plums and scab on
apricots spray at pink-bud stage
with Bordeaux 6:6:40 (61b. of
bluestone, 61b. of slaked lime in
40gal. of water). The spray will
also help to control brown-rot.
‘“My”: To correct zinc de-
ficiency in citrus (characterised
by a yellow mottling of the
leaves) spray with a mixture of
101 b. of zinc sulphate and 51b.
of slaked lime in lOOgal. of
water. For the small garden
Boz. of z.s. and 4oz. of s.l. in
5 gal. of water. Add a spreader
and apply before commence-
ment of the main spring growth.


Face Facts
■
u
t# 1
More than 20 feet of hair grow on a man’s face each
day nearly a mile and a half in a year! That’s a fact,
for each of the 25,000 hairs, the average crop of an
Australian male, grows at the ratejaf at least 1/100 inch
each day. A tough assignment for a razor blade?
Certainly, but it can be tackled comfortably by using
Blue Gillette Blades daily—they have the sharpest edges
in the world.
c?
o
i
O
'Good Mornings' begin with Gillette
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
TEH FOR 3/- FIVE FOR 1/6
1/169
mM
■am
m
gi |
Why let Roofing delay
your Home plans
. . . plan instead to use WUNDERLICH METAL
TILE. Place your order now and be assured of
an attractive watertight roofing in either RUSSET-
RED or GREEN, for your new home. Wunderlich
Metal Tile is stamped from sturdy 6' x 3' sheets
of Zincanneal to boldly simulate French pattern'
tiles, then dipped in synthetic enamel and ove.n-
baked to a hard, colourful surface finish. It is
economical to transport and easy to fix.
'Phone MX 2411 or write Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney,
for prices and illustrated leaflet.
Metal Tile Roofing is available in N.S.W. and
Queensland only.
Metal tile roofing
L I STAMPED AND S*OVE ENAMELLED ZINCANNEAL
A PRODUCT OF THE METAL-WORKING DIVISION OF
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
|o Help Solve Your Money Worries
A personal, confidential service
Is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed.
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills, come In
and talk it over*
r
RURAL BANK
Head Offices Martin Place, Sydney*
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM No. I CUP
The NO. I Drink
for wise men
A lot of accidents happen in the
Woman’s paper.
Husbands just take them as a
matter of course.
"i* -h 4*
Davis, 31 years eight months, is
the oldest forward in the team;
Broad, 28, ,the oldest hack.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
And a stable member of the
team.
( ,
“With even more' grace than a
Frenchman, Vishinsky took Mrs.
Bevin’s hand and kissed it delicately.”
—Cable item.
And who better than the
Soviet Foreign Minister to give
lip-service?
“The doctor ran true to form.
Announced he: ‘Human beings
would get into a lot less trouble if
they walked on all-fours—the way
they are supposed to.’ ”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
But they’d be bound to get
up to some monkey-business,
4* +
“A model must be something of
a super woman.” — Woman’s mag.
And must be built to the
proper scale.
4* 4* 4*
“In the first round, Woodcock
ricked Mills with rights to the jaw.”
—-Sydney “Sun.”
Real haymakers.
4* 4* 4*
“Board for yg. man . with pri.
family to share large front room.”
—Local paper.
He’ll be made to feel quite
at home.
4* 4* 4*
Doctors say that a haircut could
not give anyone a cold.”
—Sydney "Sun.”
But it can make you cough up
2s. 3d.
4* 4* 4*
Lost, a brown fable fur. £5 re-
ward.”—Suburban paper.
One with a tale hanging to it.
4* 4* 4*
Both.
I marked her in a lounge un-
manned,
And quickly caught her eye:
She cooed “Just call me Sherry,”
and
I found her sweet, yet dry.
Brian Bureau.
Theme Song.
“Can it be that a musical election
is contemplated, with locally-composed
and even State-subsidised theme tunes
for the use of candidates? It is a
fearful thought.”—“S. M. Herald.”
I don’t imagine Chifley’s crowd
Will prove themselves to be en-
dowed
With talents for composing
songs
Wherein a pining member longs
To see once more the native
town
Made famous by his cheap re-
nown.
Nor can I picture Ben as writ-
ing
A plaintive little ditty skiting
Of Golden Ages drawing nearer
With union tussles at Kemeira,
Or lays of miners in a hurry
To hew their coal at Kurd
Kurd.
In fact, I think the day of doom
Will rather hear his songsters
boom
No noble air befitting stoics,
But borrowed tags of mock
heroics
The chief of which no doubt
would be—
" The legion of the lost are
we !”
D. H. E.
Pshaw!
“The trouble about woman is that
she lacks the power of conversation
but not the power of speech.”
—George Bernard Shaw.
Though woman’s name is frailty.
Her tongue must surely always
be
Exempt from such indictment
when
Its strength is as the strength of
ten:
Sweet maid, ’tis sad when you
become
So voluble and yet so dumb !
JEAN STANGER.
More Anatomical Aids.
“Australians at a London exhibi-
tion of antiques have been greatly
taken with a tongue-scraper, used by
bibulous citizens of the eighteenth
century for morning-after purposes.”
As the revival of such antique
fashions as bustles and leg-o’-
mutton sleeves has been such a
success in the feminine sphere,
the repopularising of various
anatomical aids such as the fur-
scraper should rejoice the heart
of man. The Federal Opposi-
“ Don't think you're going to like the taste of THIS, Bill."
tion, it is understood, has.
ordered several dozen replicas
of these tongue-scrapers for the
easier removal of the dark-
brown taste left in their mouths
after having been subjected to
a speech by Ward, Calwell or
Dan Mulcahy.
What is urgently needed, how-
ever, is the setting-up of a
Select Committee at Canberra
which would determine the ad-
visability of importing in suit-
able quantities other aids to the
anatomy of politicians for a
variety of purposes. Among
these might be listed:
Spine-supporter: This would
have to be of enormously strong
make to stand up to the terrific
strain which would be imposed
on it on the many occasions
when the Prime Minister would
have to use it when facing a
deputation of leaders of either
the miners’, wharfies’ or sea-
men’s unions.
Bite-tester: As he is easily the
best “bite” in the House, the
Minister for Misinformation
would be the principal subject
of this delicate instrument,
which records with great ac-
curacy the severity of each hook-
line-and-sinker effort. Archie
Cameron would be the obvious
choice as the technician in
charge of it.
Eye - washer: This handy
gadget, streamlined for modern
use, governs the quantity of
Ministerial eyewash flowing
from a readied-up question put
to him by young Mr. Daly, and
which may go over the air at
the best broadcasting time, yet
not quite sufficient to give
listeners a stomach turn.
Ear-torturer; It is expected
that there will be a popular de-
mand for these among those
Parliamentarians who wish
gradually to bring their ears to
the stage of ultimate punishment
when they are forced to listen
to an hour of Senator Hashley
when he is either praising
the N.S.W. coalminers for losing
not more than 6000 tons a day
in petty strikes or delivering a
solemn warning to the nation
against the evils of s.p. betting.
Stomach-scraper; This handy
antique would play a splendid
part in toughening up legislators,
especially considering its dual-
purpose use. Its surface of
extra-coarse pumice can be
used either for pruning the
corns off the stomachs of
Cabinet Ministers after they
have made their usual approach
to a notorious Commo union-
leader to implore him to call
off a strike which is paralysing
industry (otherwise the party
might be beaten at the elections),
or for massaging purposes so
as to case-harden the protuber-
ance for the next umbilical
crawl.
Tongue-and-cheek separator;
This will be an invaluable aid
to any Minister after he has
“explained” a tyrannical deci-
sion he has made, and at which
the Opposition has vigorously
protested, as a benevolent action
which he had taken “after con-
sultation with his departmental
experts” and after “exploring all
other avenues,” and which “was
designed to pave the way to a
better understanding and a
fuller democracy in this fair
land of ours.” A specially re-
inforced model is available for
the Minister who dramatically
declaims: “I would willingly re-
sign my portfolio instantly if I
thought that I had lost the con-
fidence of those who had elected
me to represent them here!”
Jaw - elevator: Particularly
handy for the legislator whose
jaw has just sagged badly after
some impertinent dastard on
the other side has reminded him
that the speech he had made
was a complete reversal of
what he had said previously,
and proceeds to give the time’
place and substance of it.
Face-saver: It is not expected
that the Government would
grant an import licence for this
article, it being felt in official
circles that its present methods
of applying the gag or having
an Opposition member “named”
who has the temerity to ask a
question which might embar-
rass the Government adequately
fill the need.
Back-biter: In view of the
abundant supply of locally-
grown back-biters infesting Can-
berra, this anatomical device
will also be considered re-
dundant.
Mouth-washer: See tongue-
scraper.
Cheek-strengthener: Certain
also to be considered unneces-
sary.
Leg-retractor: An ingenious
device designed to get back into
shape quickly legs that have
been tugged heavily.
Elbow-raiser; Completely re-
dundant.
Bo.
Unparalleled Virtue.
I’d say she’s forty-five if she’s a
day ;
It’s clear her clothes are
anything but smart.
She’s very plain, her hair is
turning grey.
Her make-up doesn’t consti-
tute an art.
Her intellect has many startling
gaps,
And one must shout to make
the lady hear,
Yet here’s to her —the one who
never slaps
My change into a counter
pool of beer.
P. O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
New Blood
The immigrants coming into our
country bring more than their potential
as producers and consumers; they bring
virile new blood. We are an insular
people tending towards a spiritual and
moral debility and only a strong trans-
fusion of new blood can lift us from it.
At the moment we won’t build roads
or perform other useful work without in-
dulging in what almost amounts to black-
mail. So we have had to accelerate immi-
gration to bring labor here for those jobs.
Eventually the immigrants will compete
as artisans, farmers, etc., and those of us
who lack the gumption to compete with
them will take up the shovel they threw
down, while they step into the more com-
fortable position which we hadn’t the
fairness or sense to value.
Already some no-hopers are howling
dismally at the prospect. To these people
the worst offence committed by the immi-
grant is that he prospers. So he does.
The spirit of enterprise that brought him
here drives him on.
After the first war I saw him chipping
cane in N.Q. Later I saw him buy the
farms. While he was chipping he was
watching, asking questions, learning and
saving. The stimulus he gave to the
north was terrific.
The immigrant makes a good Aus-
tralian, and the vigor of his approach to
the job and the impact of that on those
around him will prevent us from stagnat-
ing.—Dusty Mile (Q.).
Tram-stops
What happened to the N. S. Wales
Transport Department’s experiment in
numbering Sydney tram-stops? That
excellent practice has been established in
Brisbane for some years with complete
success, and there is no reason why
Sydney and Newcastle shouldn’t have fol-
lowed suit long ago.
How much easier it is to say to a
visitor, “Get off at stop 34,” instead of,
“It’s the first stop after the second church
on the right-hand side after the shopping-
centre with the garage on the comer
opposite the hotel next to the newsagent’s
—you can’t miss it.”
Even those involved directions are
safer than relying on, “Ask the conductor
to put you off.” If the stranger is lucky
the trammie will admit he doesn’t know,
thereby giving him a sporting chance.
More likely he’ll just have a rough guess
at it, with results that turn a simple tram
trip into something resembling one of
those “mystery hikes” popular a decade
or so ago.—G. I. B. (N.S.W.).
Cost of Wheat
A great fuss is being made by wheat-
growers over sales made by the Wheat
Board to other Governments in the
British Commonwealth. The growers
vociferously maintain that the prices were
below world parity and that they, the
growers, instead of the taxpayers as a
whole, are thereby suffering loss.
The taxpayer himself may have some-
thing to say about that. The Rural Re-
construction Commission in its tenth re-
port certainly had. That body drew atten-
tion to the financial help which taxpayers
in general have afforded primary indus-
tries and particularly wheatgrowers. Be-
tween 1920-21 and 1944-45 £89,000,000
was so spent. The commission emphasised
that the sums involved have been a con-
siderable drain upon the taxable capacity
of the nation.
Wheatgrowing received the major
share of the £B9 million; it received over
£29 million in direct financial assistance
alone between 1931-32 and 1943-44, and
there were, in addition, other substantial
benefits. The wheatfarmers benefited
most from the money voted under the
Farmers’ Debts Adjustment Acts,
Drought-relief, etc.
I suggest that, instead of then constant
moaning, the cockies might say “Thank
you” to the taxpayer and remember
Horace Walpole’s definition: “Gratitude
is a lively appreciation of favors to
come,” because I am sure that taxpayers
will, later, again be called on to put some-
thing in the hat for wheatgrowers. They
might also beg, borrow or steal a copy of
the Rural Reconstruction Commission’s
report—Mr. Dedman’s department will
supply it. — Harry the Horse (Vic.).
P.M.G. Grab
The new list of postal-department
charges will hit hardest the commercial
and industrial organisations in Australia.
They provide perhaps the most direct
example of how the community must in-
evitably pay for such an industrial gain
as the 40-hour week.
For years, while the P.M.G. made good
profits, it was impossible to secure a re-
duction in charges, notably the removal
of the surcharge imposed during the war.
Now that there is a loss users of the
postal services must make it good. After
years of profitable working the depart-
ment made a small loss in 1947-48, and
this financial year expects to have a
deficit of some £3,000,000, compared with
a profit of about £3,000,000 two years
ago.
Apparently no effort has befen made to
find out whether economy and increased
efficiency could be achieved by reorgani-
sation. If T.A.A. doesn’t show a good
profit we will probably be asked to pay
a surcharge for looking at the planes as
they fly overhead. — Blackie (Tas.).
Funny Man
N. S. Wales Attorney-General Martin
figured as the comedian in the Macquarie-
street show when reading his Landlord
and Tenant Amendment Bill for the-
second time.
He commenced by requesting that
there be no interjections.
A summary of the bill revealed points
having effect as follows: (1) Limit holi-
day premises... .(2) Force landlords....
(3) Oblige a landlord t 0.., .(4) Prohibit a
landlord (5) Increase the maximum
penalties for offences against the L. and T.
Act (landlords or their agents are the
only persons or companies subject to
these penalties). (6) Induce owners of
large dwellings to make portion of them
available for tenancy by other families—
in other words, induce them to become
landlords and qualify for benefits under
items one to five enumerated above.
The worst feature of the State Govern-
ment’s legislation is that it seeks to
make the owner of tenanted property —
the despised capitalist, no matter how
humble his holdings, nor how urgently
he requires his property for his own
occupation —bear the responsibility of
housing all tenants.
It has always been left to private en-
terprise to provide roofs for the people,
and for it to do this the enterprise must
be an economic one. The McGirr Gov-
ernment is determined that property-
owning today shall be as uncomfortable,
as uneconomic and as arduous an invest-
ment as possible.
The devil of all This is that erection of
investment property has ceased. The
source of rentable dwelling space has
dried up since no investor is fool enough
today to make property available for
renting under the terms and conditions
prefaced by limitations, obligations, force
and penalties which vest in tenants every-
thing about his property except the title.
The State Government’s contribution
of two to three thousand Housing Com-
mission homes a year, made available at
rentals for which private owners would
be jailed, will have no chance of filling in
the gap left by the withdrawal of private
enterprise from housing.
If the provisions relating to ejectment,
etc., in Mr. Martin’s new amendments to
the L. and T. Act become law, owners
of dwellings tenanted by someone else
look like waiting outside the door for the
rest of their lives. The Act says nothing
about tenants seeking their own accom-
modation, so with the law the way it is,
why should they?
The Housing Commission will offer
them nothing, nor even consider them for
accommodation, unless there is an order
for eviction against them —an order which
will not now be made unless alternative
accommodation is available. - And in that
case they will not need the ministrations
of Mr. Evatt’s department, and that seems
to be exactly what the worthy Clive is
aiming at. — Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Art
Adelaideans have shown great interest
in the Melrose prizewinning picture of a
“Woman in a Landscape.” On the
opposite wall in the gallery was hung the
unsuccessful portrait of Dr. Helen Mayo,
by Dargie. A comparison of the two can-
vasses convinces me that modern art is
the negation of beauty, truth and com-
monsense.
The Dargie portrait shows a woman
dressed in colorful academic robes. The
artist must have used brushes and pig-
ments, but the media are in no way
obvious. The frame does not enclose a
“composition,” but a charming person-
ality.
The “Woman in a Landscape” by
Drysdale portrays a female figure, slat-
ternly dressed, gargantuan in proportion,
porcine in build and expression, repellent
in every line and as devoid of personality
as a scarecrow. The brushwork is coarse,
the colors are muddy. The general im-
pression is of a degraded, despairing, sub-
human troglodyte in a landscape as devoid
of interest as a dustheap. — Malley
Pense (S.A.).
Queensland Timber
Although the Queensland Forestry
Department does estimate the reserves of
Hoop-pine around the headwaters of the
Brisbane River at 100 million super.-feet
(B. 25/5/’49), consumption at present is
150 million super.-feet per year, most of
which is hoop-pine. So that particular
area would not last long once attacked.
“Bon Yi” is an optimist when he claims
that “above Mt. Stanley the hills and
valleys are crowded with magnificent
hoop- and bunya-pines.” In that area
there are, at best, a few of each to the
acre.
Moreover, beyond the headwaters of
the Brisbane area, there are very few
other stands, and nearly all are being
tapped. The Forestry Department’s esti-
mate is that at the present rate of con-
sumption the natural forest softwoods
will last onty another five years, and it
will be 20 years before the forestry plan-
tations will be able to meet demand
satisfactorily. That leaves 15 lean
years in prospect for Queensland soft-
woods on the consumption side.
“8.Y.” refers to the coastal hoop-pine
of the islands, but this is inferior, hard
to get, and limited in quantity.
Those 11,000,000 super.-feet of thin-
nings at Yarraman cover a period of
about 10 years. At present, thinnings cut
from all forestry plantations run out at
about 3,500,000 super.-feet—only a flea-
bite compared with current consumption
of 150 million super.-feet annually.
There is some softwood still left in
Queensland in the natural state, not lots
as “8.Y.” claims, but, as he says, even
what there is is difficult to bring to the
mill. —Mark Heim (Q.).
Drift to the City
To Gabriel Mirabeau’s father, also
a man of some note in his time, the worst
evil afflicting France was the drift to the
city. In his book. The Friend of Man-
kind, written in 1756, he said;
We desert the villages for the towns, the
towns for the cities, the cities for the
capital, and this is what a whole nation
tends to do if the Government is not careful
to give it a contrary propensity.
There is the same flight from the land in
this day, and warnings against its dis-
astrous consequences are still not heeded.
It’s certainly too much to expect the
present “Government” “to give it a con-
trary propensity.”—K. R. (N.S.W.).
Small Potatoes
The ban by Fremantle lumpers on the
export of Westralian potatoes to Singa-
pore is an example of the harm that can
be done by a few possibly well-intentioned
but ignorant union bosses.
Westralian potato-growing is a seasonal
business, there being two annual crops,
one in summer and one in winter. The
potential production is enormously in
excess of local needs, so cultivation is
restricted by the Potato Board. The re-
stricted acreage, however, was estimated
when there were many Eastern States
and American servicemen in W.A., so
that, at the present, production is a good
deal ahead of local demand.
Rather than reduce the acreage, the
Potato Board, in co-operation with the
Agricultural Department, sent a man to
investigate the possibility of disposing of
surplus spuds in Singapore. He reported
favorably, and some trial shipments were
very well received by the buyers.
It was discovered that the Singapore
merchants preferred the very smallest of
potatoes —those previously marketed in
W.A, as second-grade and almost
unsaleable on the local market. Conse-
quently, the Government altered its
grading regulations, bringing in a new
grade, IA, which consisted of first-quality
small potatoes.
The results are that potatoes can now
be produced up to capacity, without any
fear of a local glut. Any surplus can be
absorbed by the Singapore market,
and the export potatoes are those
that are in disfavor here. This
outlet for the surplus cushions the shock
of seasonal crop variations, the local
supply remaining comparatively steady,
while any over-all fluctuation is reflected
in a rise or,fall of exports.
That very satisfactory state of affairs
is being jeopardised by the ill-advised
action of the lumpers. The results of
such a ban could be very serious—heavy
losses to individual farmers, already
battling with high production costs, and
their consequent withdrawal! from the
industry; and the loss of future orders
from Singapore, whose merchants are not
going to put up with unpredictable delays
if they can satisfy their requirements else-
where. — Nubis (W.A.).
”THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 22
Across.
I—Punish the play’s personnel and
one at the entrance. (9)
s—Hampers shoes produced by 100
diarists. (5)
7 —Jumbled type by the knoll before
the male saint is to duck the
Scottish son with aspiration in
the solar plexus. (3, 2,3, 7)
9 —Operated with bag material
plundering. (10)
12 — Insect from a sparsely populated
part of Australia. (3)
13 — The species and the falsehood
are more charitably disposed. (8)
15 —The wedding words after a
pagan. (8)
18 —Russian composer puts you in
101. (3)
20 —Loud musical meadow piece
takes X obviously in need of
insecticide. (10)
22 — Affliction observed during the
baptism of Einstein? (5, 2,3, 5)
23 — DDD to see you to the resting-
place. (5)
24 See you check its gourds. (9)
(cryptic type.)
o Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1 — Vessels carry headgear to the
sick ram. (11)
2 Rested you on i share of limited
supplies in a state of maximum
dampness. (10)
3 In the imagination of early child-
hood. (7}
4 Tree god of pastures stands under
the fire. (3-3)
5 150 had acted the fool. (7)
6 Operated on the ring in Algeria.
(4)
B—lndian State of an ailing hero of
Kipling? (6)
10 — Spoil the relations’ absurd people
used for branding laundry and
such like. (7, 4)
11 — Two hundred go about in the
tavern at one of America’s cities.
, (10)
14 —Mother in check stay. (6)
16—Attracted the whole lot with you
blushing. (7)
J7—-Time from a Boer cot. (7)
19 —Pertaining to stone. (6)
21 —Pierce among the rising run-
getters. (4) '
Solution to Crossword No. 21.


*•
*
m
/ >
SB
:s
■Sir.
9
cMec^mMcf
The A.W.A. monogram on any instrument is- a mark of
quality and scientific craftsmanship. It is the symbol of the
Radio Age, representing the knowledge gained from research
and engineering over more than 35 years.
Behind all A.W.A. products and services are the A.W.A.
laboratories, which have advanced radio in the home, on the
highways, at sea, and in the air. As one of Australia’s key
industrial organisations, A.W.A. recognises the value of
scientific research and its important role in peace and security.
Investigations now in progress include the use of frequency
modulation for telephone communication with moving
vehicles, as well as for broadcasting, development of special
transmitters and receivers to improve radio-telephone services
between Australia and overseas countries, television and
work on a number of new radio aids for navigation.
Over 1000 ships of the Merchant Navy are equipped with
A.W.A. wireless apparatus.
'V
The progress made by commercial aviation and the enormous
mileages covered are due in a large measure to the develop-
ment of wireless and its application to aerial navigation and
communication.
A.W.A. maintains in a serviceable condition all radio equip-
ment in Australian commercial aircraft and overseas aircraft
operating to Australia. Over 150 aircraft for 20 different
companies are serviced by A.W.A. This has necessitated, the
establishment of radio-servicing depots at all principal
aerodromes.
BROADCASTING TRANSMITTING STATIONS
WIRELESS TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE STATIONS
AERONAUTICAL RADIO EQUIPMENT
MARINE WIRELESS
RADIOLA BROADCAST RECEIVERS
SOUND AMPLIFYING SYSTEMS
#
s
m
■ m
* > i
Skip’s Wireless Station
■
3
. x ,r : -x- ww-
-60,000-watt Broadcast Transmitter
X.
I
11
;. s
'
IRI
"ia* \
H ■
■i I
i
I : MSB
Ki
Radiola Assembly at Works
*-, ■, ' ''
mm m 0
m
s .
fV„ •*
:.m
mm
"* ■ s
Studio Control Apparatus
IRELESS (Australasia) LTD.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Also at WELLINGTON, N.Z., and AUSTRALIA HOUSE, LONDON
