

extra dry solero
A PRODUCT OF THE
j
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3627
Wednesday, August 17, 1949
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
r pHE Lincolnshire port of Boston,
A mother of the great city in the
U.S.A., has an ancient and turbulent
history, which reaches back to Roman
times, when a. defensive post was estab-
lished here by the invaders.
St. Botolph, the patron saint of
mariners, founded a small monastery
here in a.d. 654, but this and the village
which grew up around it were destroyed
by the Danes during their invasion of
870. The settlement was quickly rebuilt,
and under the Norman feudal lords its
growth was rapid. In the thirteenth cen-
tury Boston was one of the most im-
portant seaports in the country. Vast
quantities of wool were exported from
the town to nearly every countiy in
Europe, and it was during this period
that the present church of St. Botolph
was built; its foundation-stone being
laid in 1309. It is one of the largest
parish churches in England, and its lofty
tower (288 feet) in the Perpendicular
style is crowned with a beautiful octago-
nal lantern which forms a sea- and land-
mark for thirty miles around. Owing to
its blunted appearance when seen from
a distance, the tower is known as the
“Boston Stump.”
In the early seventeenth century
Boston obtained notoriety; for it was
from here that a group of Puritans (after-
wards known as the Pilgrim Fathers)
tried to sail to Holland to escape
religious persecution. Just before sailing
they were betrayed by the captain of the
ship—they were seized by the King’s men,
imprisoned and their goods confiscated.
Later they were tried and released on
bail, and during the following year they
escaped to Holland. In 1620 these same
men and women voyaged from Holland
to New England, and soon afterwards a
great migration followed in their wake.
Before the Civil War four expeditions
sailed from Boston. Some of these men
rose to eminence in the new world,
where their names are still remembered
and revered. Five men from Boston
became Governors of Massachusetts, and
eight were among the founders of
Harvard University.
The adventurous spirit of the town is
recalled by the fact that towards the end
of the eighteenth century a group of men
from Boston led the exploration of Aus-
tralia. Their names included Banks,
Bass, Flinders, Gilbert and Franklin.
BASS AND FLINDERS LIVED IN THE SHADOW OF THIS FAMOUS BOSTON CHURCH


Learn■ ■
S
A;-v
Story Wrltmg
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. f 49
AON
The Red Page
CASE FOR THE BANKSIA.
The paintings in Margaret Prestons
Monotypes (Ure Smith Pty., Ltd.) are of
three kinds: experiments in the use of
aboriginal art-forms ; landscapes ; studies
of wildflowers. The wildflower pictures
are by far the best.
In the aboriginal paintings Margaret
Preston is exploAig in stubborn and
dangerous territory. Where, as in the
end-papers has designed for the book,
or in the pattern of fishy skeletons she
has entitled “Fish,” the aboriginal motives
are used purely to make a decorative
pattern, the effect is pleasing. But where,
as in the crudely symbolic trees of “Bim-
bo wrie Landscape,” which might have
been drawn by a child with its thumb, or
in “Drought, Mirage Country,” with its
kangaroos that look like a cross between
a fox-terrier and a rockinghorse, the
pictures are meant to be something more
than a decoration, they fail.
It is impossible to respond to them with
that instantaneous delight which a work
of art evokes, for the interest is focused
on the crudity of the technique; and
they are at best curiosities. Certain wise
words of Goethe’s concerning the primi-
tive movement of his period and equally
applicable today come to mind:
Raphael and his contemporaries broke
through a limited mannerism, to nature
and freedom. And now our artists, instead
of being thankful, using these advantages,
and proceeding on the good way, return
to the state of limitation. This is too bad,
and it is hard to understand such darkening
of the intellect.
Goethe may have been too severe, for
it is by no means impossible that a
primitive art-form should be developed
by thie infinitely more flexible intellectual
and technical powers of the civilised artist
into something rich and strange. Yet
Margaret Preston’s aboriginal paintings,
though she claims to use rather than to
imitate the cave-drawings, are still too'
close to the primitive “limited manner-
ism.” She is allowing the aboriginals—
a people, as she admits herself, too
limited in sensibility and technical capa-
city to have attempted to paint the wild-
flowers —to debilitate her talent; but
what is really required is the opposite
process—the enrichment of primitive art
by the infinitely greater technical and
spiritual resources of the civilised artist.
The landscapes, as distinct from the
paintings directly under aboriginal influ-
ence, have a certain harsh strength.
Sometimes, as in “Middle Harbor,” with
its totemic blackboys apparently 50 feet
high and a foot thick, its murky green
bush-covered hills and its uncompromising
and unmodulated stretch of blue water,
this strength is overemphasised and loses
force. “Rung Timber,” where the crowd-
ing dead trees are all the same shape and
all the same dead-white without variation
of silver and grey, loses force because of
its facile stylism. Primitive, if not precisely
aboriginal, influences are still at work, and,
where they are apparent, there is only
the limited appeal of the “limited manner-
ism.”
Even in the best of the landscapes—
“ Bush Track,” “Scrub Country,” “Billa-
bong” and, particularly, the Queensland
National Gallery’s “Banksia Tree” —the
subtlety of technique and observation of
Percy Lindsay or Lance Solomon or of
Margaret Preston’s wildflower paintings
are lacking. They are a kind of artistic
shorthand ; a quick, impatient gesture at
the landscape; a hand flung out and a
finger commanding you to observe a
single striking object in a wilderness.
Except in “Scrub Country” (from the
Melbourne National Gallery) which is
rich with sunlight and shadow the em-
phasis is always on the harshness of the
bush . . the lonely and sinister quality
of a billabong with its sunken logs ; the
implacable tangle of branches above the
bush track; the torment of storm
and bushfire the broken banksia has en-
dured in “Pacific Ocean from Pacific
Highway”; the struggle of the green
leaves on the blackened banksia in the
Queensland Gallery’s painting. These are
not the only truths about the bush ; but
they are worth stating; and they are
stated with an intense emotion, blended
from a deep love of the bush with per-
haps a deeper storminess of temperament.
that makes them, in spite of their harsh-
ness, attractive.
Thinking about Margaret Preston’s
work, as it is shown in this book and
as one recollects it from exhibitions in
Sydney, it seems likely that the wild-
flowers, on which her reputation is estab-
lished, were her first and deepest in-
spiration. In addition to her love of the
bush she had a woman’s quick response
to the beauty of flowers, and from these
two sources, spontaneously and with
minute and careful observation, she
painted the Australian wildflowers. These
paintings were immediately welcomed,
and Margaret Preston found herself a
kind of national institution; a situation
in which political as well as purely
aesthetic values are involved. The abo-
riginal paintings and, to a lesser degree,
the landscapes seem like self-conscious
attempts by the artist to consolidate her
position or to cultivate the Australian
spirit; but Margaret Preston has yet to
develop, along with the patriotic interest
of these works, the aesthetic appeal of
her flowerpieces ... to learn from her
own work, disregarding the contemporary
fashion of primitivism, that primitive sub-
jects—such as are many of the wildflowers
—need not be painted in a primitive
technique.
The wildflower paintings in this book
are not less Australian than the abo-
riginal pieces, but they are painted with
meticulous care. Indeed, knowing how
rebellious a flower is the waratah
against all attempts to modulate its
strident color and mould its primitive
form into a harmonious composi-
tion ; knowing how nearly the Christ-
mas-bell looks too obviously decorative
to be painted ; and knowing how difficult
it is to make recognisable forms and
definable patterns out of all the spiky
little anonymous flowers of the bush, one
marvels at her patience and her success.
The wildflower paintings, again, con-
tinue the note of harshness characteristic
of the landscapes and characteristic of
certain moods and certain aspects of the
bush. The blackened banksia-cone is
again one of the keynotes. But here the
harshness is balanced and modulated;
the cone is a note of harshness against
the opulence of the waratah, the gaudiness
of the Christmas-bell, the sky-blue of an
orchid and the frail whiteness of flannel-
flowers ; it is strength among color and
gentleness ; and so you have, in effect, a
complete analysis of the bush instead of
merely an emphasis of its grimness.
There are ten of these wildflower paint-
ings among the 24 colorplates of the book,
and all are rich and lovely work.
The book has been printed for Ure
Smith Publications by Waite and Bull,
Ltd., and is of the same excellence in
format as the other recent art books
turned out by this alliance —the Rupert
Bunny and Adrian Feint volumes. Gwen
Morton Spencer says in an introduction
that Margaret Preston painted all the
monotypes reproduced or listed in the
book —the method is not explained—
within a period of six months; and the
publishers say that every one of them
was sold before the book was printed.
An Article on the Article .
Ever since Edwin Muir remarked it of
T. S. Eliot, the ambition of all English
literary critics has been “to move a large
weight with a small lever”: thus G.
Rostrevor Hamilton bases his theory of
English poetry on the poets’ use of the
article “the” in The Tell-Tale Article
(Heinemann); although to count some
92,000 words in an anthology in order to
conclude that “the” represents as little as
five and two-thirds per cent, of poetry
from Addison to “Peter Pindar,” and as
much as eight and one-fifth per cent, of
poetry from James Joyce to Dylan
Thomas, may be considered a laborious
departure from the method.
But Mr, Hamilton does make his point,
that, in the poetry which is most repre-
sentative of the present, that of T. S.
Eliot,
The significance of the definite article is
often this, that he makes hi? appeal to a
knowledge or attitude which, by an effort
of sympathy, we share with him, or—for
he sometimes flatters us —we are supposed
to share. Underneath all change is a com-
mon inheritance, a common way of observ-
ing and feeling.
We see the truth of this in such lines
as
And I have seen the eternal Footman hold
my coat and snicxer,
or:
the infirm glory of the positive hour.
But as good a way of seeing modern
poetry in a grain of sand might have been
developed from modern poets’ use of
“we.” It was not for nothing that Eliot
translated the Anabasis of St. J. Perse,
a series of images by which an Eastern
civilisation is seen to rise from nomadic
fighting tribes, settle for a while in
various phases of commerce and luxury,
and then set out again on the march—
all in a few pages ; for in the same way
Eliot’s Waste Land is an effort to com-
press all Christian civilisation into a few
pages; and Eliot’s “we” means all Chris-
tian humanity, living and dead ; in nine
lines he covers 1900 years:
After the torchlight red on sweaty faces
After the frosty silence in the gardens
After the agony in stony places
The shouting and the crying
Prison and palace and reverberation
Of thunder of spring over distant moun-
tains
He who was living is now dead
We who were living are now dying
With a little patience
The “we,” who in T. S. Eliot are all
the world’s Christians, or, even more
completely, eternal twitterers upon the
Golden Bough of Frazer, become the
Marxian “we” of the early poems of
Spender and Auden ; a proletarian “we”
who, far from “dying with a little
patience,” are going to do immense
strokes with a hammer and a sickle, like
boys singing in trucks taking them to
a football match:
Who are we? Who are we?
We are, we are ( A.8.C., A.L.P., or what-
ever common fate has been wished
upon them).
Thus a study of the use of “we” might
lead, even better than a study of the use
of “the,”' to Mr. Hamilton’s second point,
that modern poetry, as represented by
T. S. Eliot, shows a decline in “the sense
of man’s greatness”: for to Eliot all in-
dividuals are drops in the ocean of his-
tory, while to Auden they are cogs in
the machine of progress ; and if we are
all “we” then there is no point in any-
one being “I”—and, indeed, young Mr.
Spender pointed this out:
An “I” can never be a great man.
Moreover, it is from this “we,” rather
than from Mr. Hamilton’s “the,” that T.
S. Eliot has developed a theory of all
poetry being part of a stream which flows
through time, uniting Homer, Virgil,
Dante and T. S. Eliot —T. S. Eliot having
power-of-attorney to sign on behalf of
sleeping partners.
In his third essay, on “The Meaning
of Tradition,” Mr. Hamilton makes a
welcome effort to challenge Mr. Eliot’s
authority to act on behalf of the Firm,
and to lift some of the threads of pre-
destination which Mr. Eliot has woven
about poetry. Perhaps, if he should
manage to do this, we should not worry
whether he does it with a “the,” or a
“we” or a whubblyoo.
R. McC.
Defectives Found Out.
The critical detective of detective
stories, well-grounded in the classics
(Conan Doyle, Van Dine, Gardner, Stout,
Hammett, Austin Freeman —what a great
man Freeman was ? ; with what unobtru-
sive art he managed to interest us in cog-
wheels and test-tubes! One remembers
a boy in one of his books taking apart an
old Dutch clock and putting it together
again, as exquisite a piece of writing as
you would find in most of the celebrated
English stylists)—the critical detective
nowadays takes up* his magnifying-glass
with a sigh, reads a few lines of recent
authors, and reaches for his micro-
scope . . .
Murders continue to be done; small
things, the kidnapping of so insignificant
a creature as a theatrical impresario and
the murder of his wife in John Bude’s
A Glut of Red Herrings (Macdonald),
which, herrings removed, might make a
good short story and keep the ingenious
method of the murder as a surprise in-
stead of a long-drawn-out yawn.
Or there are the fantasies of such
cuckoos in the Peter Cheyney nest as
Gerald Bowman, whose Sawdust Angel
(Werner Laurie, Ltd.) begins with some-
thing like style, goes on to wrestlings by
an English hero in an American country-
club brothel with a beautiful and rich
young nymphomaniac who, no doubt
anxious not to be considered a mere social
butterfly, occasionally works for her liv-
ing as one of the club’s hostesses . . .
Perhaps there is something to be said
for Pursuit in Peru by Charles M.
Leonard (Museum Press); namely, that
no literary sleuth has shown his face there
before; and although the pursuit of the
American war-widow, a stenographer-
with-instructions-to-prowl-around at the
American Legation, who vanishes from
the inland village of Pucalpa, ends more
as an adventure story than as a detective
story, it is not a bad thrillerthe scenery
is new, and the small group of Europeans,
a rich and useless young American, a
sorrowful Pole, some mysterious French-
men and sortie representative Peruvians,
are alive enough to keep the reader awake
without unduly exciting him.
But think of The Bishop Murder Case,
The Case of the Howling Dog, The
Maltese Falcon —we have been used, we
would have you know, to better things.
Contributions are invited by Angus
and Robertson for the ninth (1949) Coast
to Coast, which will be edited by Nettie
Palmer. Writers should submit no more
than two or three recently-written stories.
The closing date is August 31.
Reviewed Briefly,
Granada Window: Marguerite Steen
(Falcon Press). A novelist’s pleasant
notebook on life in southern Spain prior
to the Civil War. Bullfighting, Don
Quixote, medieval witches and modern
peasants.
* * * *
A recent addition to Macdonald’s
Illustrated Classics library is The Essays
of William Hazlitt, edited by Catherine
Macdonald Maclean, who wrote a force-
ful biography of Hazlitt a year or two
ago under the title Born Under Saturn.
Tire volume is a selection of 27 essays; a
useful introduction to Hazlitt, as is Miss
Maclean’s introduction to this intro-
duction.
* * * * ,
The Big Fisherman : Lloyd C. Douglas
(Peter Davies Ltd.). A new novel by
the author of the best-selling The Robe.
The “big fisherman” is Simon called
Peter.
* * * ■ *
The Food of the People: Sir Noel
Curtis-Bennett (Faber). The author is
Welfare Adviser to one of Britain’s
biggest industrial caterers. The book is
a history of how employers, from the
Middle Ages onwards, have fed their
employees, and describes the Lever and
Cadbury systems of recent times. There
is also a note on industrial canteens in
war-time. Sir Noel believes, “A canteen
should be something more than an
eating-shop.”
* * * *
Concerning Science :■ F. Sherwood
Taylor (Macdonald). Survey of the
achievements and limitations of science
in the modern world; the purpose
being chiefly to point out that science
can’t really tell us why the world exists
but religion can.
:i: * * *
In What Strange Land ? ; Pierre Very,
translated by Stuart Gilbert (Allen
Wingate, London). Simon le Gouge, cul-
tivating innocently the satanic friendship
of Jean Robert Pellerin, becomes sub-
consciously or telepathically entangled in
a murder done a hundred years before in
a French village. Some unknown power
draws him to the village, where he is
shocked to find himself re-enacting the
old murder with the criminal’s descend-
ants. Considerable art has gone into the
characterisation and into the evocation
of stagnant and mysteriously evil
atmospheres, but the ingenious explana-
tion of all this wickedness tends to dispel
its horror.
* * * *
Peter Married Twice, described as “a
daring novel” by Alicia Leslie Mather,
who has five other novels to her credit,
is a masterpiece of brevity. Let Gone
With the Wind or Forever Amber weigh
41b. or 51b. each, Alicia Mather com-
presses as much into her 16 pages. It’s
about Peter, who marries the lovely
Rosemary, but parts from her by an
arranged divorce so that he can marry
Val, who wants the children Rosemary
can’t, or won’t, have. At 40 Peter has
Val and four nippers, is a successful
barrister but not a Judge because of the
divorce. One night he meets Rosemary,
having earlier been unfaithful to Val with
(a) a street-walker and (b) a society
butterfly. Rosemary meets him with per-
fect sang-froid, he “placed his hand on
her silken knee” and Peter falls again,
Rosemary savoring “the power that
makes every successful courtesan a queen
in her own right when she becames the
adored mistress of a bored married man.
All this, mind you, for sixpence. Far
worse and excessively far more boring
novels cost 40 times as much. Our copy
from the writer —the first battling author-
ess we’ve met.
* ♦ * *
London for the Literary Pilgrim:
William Kent (Rockclitf)- The book is
strangely incomplete; Mr. Kent seems
to have declared war on the poets of the
’nineties, and, though he mentions Sam
Johnson at the Cheshire Cheese, has not
a word about Yeats, Symons, Dowson
and Lionel Johnson. This is the more
strange in that Mr. Kent does not deal
only in celebrities of more remote times
but comes up as far as Bernard Shaw.. •
concerning whom there is the astonish-
ing information that “In the West Lon-
don Ethical Church he appears in a
stained-glass window with Anatole
France, who holds in his hand his
biography of Joan of Arc.” In spite ot
the gaps the tourist will find the book a
very useful guide to the haunts of scores
of great men, from Shakspeare an
Pepys to Dickens and Trollope, and it is
quite interesting general reading. One
observes, for instance, the immense tact
with which the Archbishop of Canter-
bury, at the unveiling of the bust ot
Adam Lindsay* Gordon in Westminster
Abbey, skirted the awkward question ot
Gordon’s literary right to be present:
“Whatever stern criticism may say as
to the abiding merit of his work, at least
there can be no doubt as to the value
which the heart of Australia sets upon «•


■truth Min advertising”
ITHMI HORDERM
□
I :t
Deed box, lever locks, 2
keys, I Oin., 20/-; 12in.
25/6; Min. 31/-; 16in.
38/6. Cash Box, lift-
out tray, lever lock, Sin.
23/6; 9in. 26/6; 1 Oin.
30/-.
• •
THREE QUIRE ENGLISH ACCOUNT BOOKS
with Pegamoid backs, single, double ledger,
journal, cash, etc. Priced at only 15/6 each;
SPRING BACK FOLDERS, brown rexine backs,
foolscap only, 8/6 each, in great demand and
still very scarce.
is the hallmark of a smooth-running office ... a fact quickly noticed
■■
by critical clients and thoroughly appreciated by your staff
LEFT
UTILITY CABINET with 4 drawers,
size 16x11 x 12 ins., drawers 2£ins.
deep, 38/6 ,
UNILLUSTRATED
RECIPE INDEX BOX complete
with Index, 100 cards 5x3 ins.
cream/green, 17/6
PLASTIC DESK JOTTER and
memo pad, in attractive green, red
or brown mottle, 5/4
Special size refills, 9d. each.
TYPIST S RACK and copyholder with
adequate storage space, in olive
C,
green, 26/6
LEFT
WESTBURY DUPLICATOR
with automatic feed, printing range ad-
justment, easy pick-up tray, adjustable
paper fence, up to 5000 per hour. Price, £22/10/-
BE YOUR OWN PRINTER...
Install an “Adana” Printing Press in your office! Simple to operate,
even for beginners! Ideal for notices, billheads, invitations, etc., and
specially suitable for clubs, institutions and small manufacturers. The
machine is supplied with type and all accessories. Call in or write to
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney, for further particulars. Price, £26/17/6
STATIONERY DEPT., GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. M 2401
p
o


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3627
Wednesday, August 17, 1949
COALFIELDS PHILOSOPHY.
“Hey! Doesn’t doing that make your head sore?
“Too right, Dig.! But it’s lovely when you leave off.”


The Bulletin
Jhe National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria ; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE A.L.P. AND
COMMUNISM.
The coal strike is at last over, but the
troubles of the Commonwealth and its
Governments are not. The Communist
party counts as a success any operation
which causes disruption and loss to a
“capitalist” community and which
weakens a Government and therefore the
general system of government.
It is true that the Communists have
not succeeded in winning what they said
they set out to win for the miners, but
in a last analysis it may only be the
miners who have been defeated by the
Chifley “stand”—or who have defeated
themselves. The supposed “great victory”
of Mr. Chifley about which the abject
Sunday papers’ young men whisper—
their capitalist directors apparently being
unable to control their admiration for
Mr. Chifley and his “strong” men —is the
same kind of victory which is won over
a malignant cancer by an unskilled or
reckless surgeon who snips a bit off the
main tumor, leading to multiplication of
the growth from its many remaining cells.
Communism cares nothing about
formal victories. It is concerned with the
rending-apart of the structure which it is
attacking, the eating-away of its exposed
flesh until nothing but cancer remains.
Judged upon that method it has gained
so great; a hold that it is difficult to see
how it can be eradicated without the
complete rebuilding of the existing Aus-
tralian Labor party upon a new plan and
upon the basis of new ideals. For there
is no doubt that it is because “Labor”
serves as a “host” that Communism in
this country succeeds. Without such a
“host” it would be a negligible factor in
everyday life, a nuisance but not a
menace, because it is essentially parasitic
and cannot live on its, own substance in
the open.
Both “Labor” and Communism have
the same immediate aim—Socialism.
Both Communism and Chifley “Labor”
are preaching the same doctrine of loaf.
Both live on class-hatred. Both are pre-
pared to buy support by pandering to the
lowest and most selfish tendencies of
humanity, by offering what the country
cannot afford —and both make use of
industrial intimidation and regimenta-,
tion.
The plain fact is that the Labor party
has been so bolshevised since J. S. Garden
and his associates took the task in hand
about a quarter of a century ago that
even the Labor people themselves some-
times have difficulty in telling which sec-
tions of them are real living Labor
organism and which Communist cancer.
At the moment “Labor” politicians and
many trade-union leaders are in the mood
of fear which induces them to scream at
every passer-by that they are free from
the contamination of what Mr. Rosevear
called the “leprous touch” of Com-
munism ; but a study of “Labor” history
over the past generation provides a
panorama of such moods, followed by
periods of reaction in which treatment
has been discontinued and more and
more of the fibre of the old Labor ideals
and structure and personnel has been
devoured by the Red plague.
One does not have to go back further
than the year after the war—l94s-1946
to see the evolutionary process of Com-
munist absorption in operation.
A perusal of the 1945 files of the
“Standard Weekly,” which described it-
self as “official organ of the Australian
Labor Party” at that time, reveals the
process.
On May 5, 1945, this official organ of
Mr. Chifley and Mr. McGirr burst out
with the statement that “a tremendous
responsibility rests on the Soviet Union.
As the only Socialist nation engaged in
the reorganisation of the New World, the
people are looking with hope in that
direction.”
When in the following month it an-
nounced that the A.L.P. intended to
begin a campaign for membership in the
workshops it pointed out that the decision
had “been misunderstood by a section of
the Sydney Press,” and that though “the
Labor party is going to reorganise its
forces for the fight that lies ahead, it is
not to say that the big guns are going
fo be concentrated on the Communist
party.”
“Why should they be?” the paper
asked: ' ,
It is not the purpose of the Labor party
to disrupt the trade-union movement by
fighting a guerrilla warfare with Com-
munists for official positions in the unions.
Who the unions appoint to official posi-
tions is not the affair of the Labor party.
When the A.L.P. was asked to inter-
fere that year in the incident in which
the Balmain branch of the Ironworkers’
Federation, headed by a returaed-soldier
secretary, rebelled against taking its
orders from Moscow, the official organ
of the party commented that “only an
innocent would try and influence the
political Labor movement to interfere
with internal union matters... .The Aus-
tralian Labor movement is the one
medium which provides a common meet-
ing-ground for all unionists.”
And the A.L.P. went on with its 1945
conference. Communists and “non-Com-
munists”—i.e., those who were led by
Stalin and those led by Chifley—sitting
amicably together, while the ruffian
Thornton and his mob of standover men
not only drove out of the union move-
ment the men of Balmain, who had tried
to be loyal to Labor’s White Australian
principles, but pursued them with venge-
ful fervor and endeavored to have them
declared “black” wherever they might
work after being When the
question arose that same month as to
whether Thornton should go to Paris as
one of the three representatives of Aus-
tralian industrial Labor at the congress
of the World Federation of Trade-unions,
the “Standard” printed a leading article
headed “Thornton Must Go to Paris.”
It was alleged by Mr. Chifley’s official
journal that “the Labor movement has
no sympathy with nor will it tolerate any
move to stifle Thornton,” because “in
stifling Thornton the Labor movement
is being stifled.” “The trade-unions have
chosen Thornton; that is the end of it,”
wrote the paper. “He must go.” And
go he did, in company with Messrs. King
and Monk, now of the moderate “indus-
trial panel” which is “fighting” Com-
munism. Said Mr. Chifley’s organ:
To all Labor people whose hatred of
Communism blinds them to the “Stan-
dard’s” point of view, they would do well
to reflect that it may be the Communist
today, but it will be the Labor man to-
morrow. Thornton’s politics are of no
importance. The important point is that
the trade-union movement has decided to
send him to Paris.
Later again, the same year, when
trouble arose in the Ryde (N.S.W.)
A.L.P. branch, which expelled three
Communist sympathisers, including one
who had gone to the Vladivostok Pan-
Pacific Trade-union World Congress in
1929 and brought back the orders of
Losovsky to destroy the arbitration system
and who afterwards had attended the
Moscow Conference of the Red Inter-
national, the branch was disciplined by
Mr. Chifley’s A.L.P. executive, and his
official paper complained that there were
“those in the Labor movement who have
developed a Communist phobia” and T>e-
come “so fanatical and conscience-bound
that anyone who sees a ray of Socialism
in Russia is suspect,” but that fortunately
there were also “tolerant and wise people
in the movement able to maintain a
balance which offsets the fanaticism of
these misguided, if honest,, partisans.”
All this, be it marked, represented the
official attitude of the A.L.P. in public
during 1945. And even in 1946, when
the annual N.S.W, conference, with an
eye on the imminent election campaign
in which Mr. Chifley obtained office for
the term of Parliament now ending,
passed its usual formal resolution that
it could have no association with Com-
munism, the Prime Minister’s official
journal made the naive admission that
“actually Communism had nothing to
offer,” but that differences in principle
were so small as between the two parties
that if the Australian Communist party
“made a political impression like its
counterparts in Europe,” then “maybe
Social Democracy in Australia would be
justified in concerting with the Com-
munist party to meet the common capi-
talist foe.”
It was admitted that “in a number of
industries where conditions are bad” —
of course after years under a “Labor”
Government! “Communist union-
leaders are elected.” But it was added
that “this does not mean that the union
members follow the Communist party
politically.”
The article continued:
We have examples of the miners, iron-
workers, wharflaborers. All these have a
proportion of Communist leaders, but yet
all these are affiliated A.L.P. unions....
Thornton, Healy and are elected
not because they are Communists, but
because they are acceptable as industrialists.
The Communist party has no choice but to
support the Labor party. What other
Government could it support? In view of
these facts, Labor willingly bequeaths to
other minority groups the anti-Communist
election campaign.
Just to seal the “Labor” party’s atti-
tude, Mr. J. A. Ferguson, now president
of the N. S, Wales branch of the A.L.P.,
who was once a Comrade, but who
has become loud in his denunciation of
Communists, showed his sense of the
unity of purpose of the followers of
Stalin and the followers of Chifley by
“inviting the Communist party to dis-
band its organisation, withdraw its can-
didates from the political field and come
into the Labor party for a common effort
to make Australia a better and more
secure place for the people.”
It is quite clear that before the Labor
movement can be purged of Communism
it must also be purged of its opportunist
leaders —the Chifleys, the Evatts, the
Calwells, the Dedmans, the Fergusons,
the Clareys, the R. A. Kings. They are
the people who have paved the way for
the building-up of Communism to its
present strength. They are just as much
part of the disease from which Australia
suffers as the Communist party itself.
A Belshazzar's Feast.
Extract from a Tokyo caWe message
giving “from a reliable source” General
MacArthur’s latest directive to the Allied
Occupation Forces, including Australia’s
8.C.0.F.;
There will be a great change on the
character of the occupation Henceforth
the Occupation Forces will help the
Japanese Government to assume increasing
responsibility.
This military role will be easily compre-
hended in Australia, where the home
Army has been helping the Chifley
Ministry to “assume increasing responsi-
bility” in the government of Australia.
For the past fortnight or so the Army
has been used not only to break a general
coal strike, the threat of which, held over
their heads, has baffled Mr. Chifley and
his Ministers for three years. It has also
been used to break every rule, practice
and article of faith in the “Labor” poli-
tical creed. In the first week the troops
were directed to work two shifts of 10
hours each in the 24 hours, and from
Tuesday midnight they dug coal right
through to the end of Sunday. Not a
“Labor” murmur anywhere about the 40-
hours of the “Golden Age”! In the
second week Forceps Minister Chambers
announced that in future they would
work on a six-day basis —at Muswellbrook
three shifts of eight hours each —with no
work on Sundays. Prime Minister
Chifley added that they would be paid
£5 a week, bonus in lieu of wages, which
was “at trade-union award rates for
similar work... .calculated on the pay of
an unmarried man.”
What award rates these may be or how
much overtime in excess of the 40-hour
week this £5 includes is not vouchsafed.
So pleased was Canberra with discovering
it is not true that “only the miners can
get coal,” and with the miners’ “darg'’
being made to look silly, that Ministers,
lapping up what General MacArthur
calls “instruction in assuming increased
responsibility,” began ventilating ideas
for exploiting the scheme. “Fixer”
Ashley, who held forth on the Miners’
Federation in the accents of a Mussolini
preparing to march on Rome, declared:
It will be necessary for troops to work
with civilians in the opencuts after the
strike ends, in order to ensure sufficient
coal for industry and essential services
during the Christmas period.
Cabinet accepted from him a proposal
that troops should also be drafted into
eight underground mines which are
mechanically equipped, and Forceps
Minister Chambers grew lyrical over the
suggestion that the troops should be given
permanently coal-workings of their own,
on the Singleton armored-weapon range,
where Army training would henceforth
run along the lines of the Squeers prin-
ciple at Dotheboys Hall —“b-u-1-1 spells
bull, as in bulldozer; go out and dig a
month’s coal.” Any morning the Aus-
tralian public expected to leam that the
defence personnel on the Woomera
rocket-range had abandoned “push-but-
ton”, exercises as obsolete and were being
trained for war under the Chifley Gov-
ernment’s service manual for getting coal
without the miners.
The spectacle of Mr. Belshazzar
Chifley and his Ministers making a feast
of their own words and becoming fight-
ing-mad from swallowing their own prin-
ciples would make a dictator film for
Charlie Chaplin. They demolished the
potage Communist philosophy and the
entree of tripe (“only miners can get
coal”) with as much gusto as though they
had been starving themselves for this
dinner during a whole long Parliamen-
tary term. Mr. Chifley said grace in
terms recognisable as appropriate —“The
Government will get into it boots and
all!” With that the corned-beef rush
started.
On the party’s Domain* rostrum Mr.
Galwell, who but a few short months ago
had repulsed Liberal demands for action
against the Communists by charging the
Opposition with wanting to put up con-
cenfration camps in Australia, pointed to
Communist interjectors:
Look at them —scum! We will use the
Army on them, the Navy on them, the
Air Force on them... .They take no notice
of anybody but the nitwits of Marx House,
even the nitwits who are not yet in jail
but soon will be.,..A collection of patho-
logical exhibits! ....If it is left to me, into
a concentration camp they will go.
“Fixer” Ashley from the same rostrum
on the following Sunday:
If the organisations [i.e., the unions] will
not take steps to get rid of the Communist
miners, some inquiry by the Government
and some action are required so that we
will not have a repetition of what we have
to put up with in Australia today.
Senator McKenna, who is suspected of
sharing Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove’s
belief that the 40-hour week was intro-
duced prematurely, went even better:
Their leaders have struck away from the
miners their greatest bargaining power, and
they have lost it for ever. The Government
has demonstrated that coal can be won
without them....
The Miners’ Federation is being smashed
from top to bottom, and the miners may
lose everything they have, including the
Coal Tribunal. They had better be pre-
pared for deregistration. When that
happens their federation will be replaced
by another organisation which has some
responsibility to Australia and the people
living in it.... 1 shall be one of those who
will recommend to the Government to
introduce compulsory [union] voting and
secret ballots. We don’t want to do this.
The all-powerful State means slavery....
Even some of the waiters at the table
caught the contagion. Secretary Monk,
of the A:C.T.U. executive, which last
October declared it would back the
miners’ demands and campaign among
the unions to support them, and which
lately retired hurt after failure to peddle
a face-saving compromise for the strikers,
was heard to remark as the dinner-bell
rang that —
The trade-union movement, through the
A.C.T.U., will decide soon whether indivi-
dual unions have the right to declare
“black” anything which involves the whole
community.
It took the A.C.T.U. only five months to
find out that the steamer Haligonian Duke
and its coal cargo had been wrongly de-
clared “black” last summer.
Suddenly in the midst of the feast
someone noticed writing appearing on the
wall unfolding the words of the party’s
fighting platform. Panic ensued. The
diners, their mouths full of the dish of
the moment, dropped their eating-tools
and pushed away for the doors. There
was a rush to push fingers down throats ;
the lights went out; the hall was empty
in a few moments.
As the leavings of the feast grew cold
the voice of “Fixer” Ashley was heard
above others saying the Army would
have to come out of the coal workings
forthwith. Coal-generals Chifley and
McGirr heard their Caucus members
tell them that election prospects were
going to pot with the disintegration of
“the movement” under this desecration
of sacred party principles, and that the
defeated Communist union bosses were
hastening to make a comeback by seiz-
ing the leadership which Ministers and
Trades Hall leaders were throwing away.
Mr. Calwell, on© of the earliest to vacate
his dinner-seat, was quickly photographed
kissing a seven-year-old immigrant who
could not possibly acquire a vote for the
next 14 years.
The horrible truth is that between now
and next December the ruling doubt
must be settled about the pro-
gramme with which the electors
shall be met. “Fixer” Ashley gave the
game away in the Domain in trying to
convince his audience that he and other
Ministers were now revealing “Labor” in
its true colors. In his tirade against the
Communists —those leeches on hie unions
which only last year the Chifley Ministry
thrice refused to help remove at the
unions’ plea—he said:
I sincerely believe they are linked up
with Mr. Menzies and Mr. Fadden in their
attempt to defeat the “Labor” party.
His “sincere belief”! Why, it was “Fixer”
Ashley who, at the end of March, was
sent on a panic visit to Cessnock and
Kurd to counter the effect of Mr.
Menzies’s coalfields meetings, which, to
the consternation of the Chifleyites,
attracted large and attentive audiences to
welcome his pledge that the Liberals, if
returned to office, would rub out Com-
munism. It was the Opposition-leader’s
attacks in Parliament and on the public
platform, against both the Communists
and the Government for its cowardice in
face of Communist threats, that produced
the first volte-face by the Chifley Ministry.
When “Fixer” Ashley returned from his
coalfields reconnaissance what he re-
ported to the Prime Minister was not any
“sincere belief” that Mr. Menzies was
allying himself with the Communists, but
that Menzies had produced an election-
winner with his undertaking to put the
dingoes where they belong.
Now Mr. Chifley has to decide
whether, after all, he really means to do
that.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Labor's" Broken China.
The “Labor” rot started as soon as it
was clear that the miners, at aggregate
meetings, had voted for going back to
work, even at the cost of breaking up
their union. Throughout “the move-
menr startled adherents (real or prc-
tended) of the Red Objective began howl-
ing with indignation at the way in which
the Chifleys and McGirrs were playing
ducks and drakes with the 40-hour week,
the ban on use of the Army to break
strikes, and the proposal to keep soldiers
permanently on the job of digging coal.
Some caucus members had rejoiced to
see their leaders getting tough with the
CommnnKts adH wprp n an crr\7 at cionc
communists ana were now angry at signs
or their getting tender again. * Others
admitted that the Army had, by getting
coal enabled hundreds of thousands of
rji **. .. , , ~ u
idle city workers to get employment
agaln ; but the miners, they argued, were
now penitent, everybody was penitent,
and it nnlv nnnrli dm.iV
a It was onl> punch-drunk Ministers
WHO were still smashing china in the
“Labor” shop as a sign that they were
men Of action But all this mado nr*
SEJmi/tJr \jV ™ aae u n ®
difference to Chifley and Co. They had
turned and were running for shelter as
hard as the miners themselves.
The chance of front was fantastic Tho
cndn S e OI ironi was laniasiic. me
record; —
August 6: Senator Ashley says Federal
Government has decided to work eight
mechanised coalmines with Army labor
working two shifts daily. He and Army
Mmister Chambers would see the Prime
Minister and arrange date of starting.
August 9: Ashley and Chambers, ad-
dressing troops at Muswellbrook, said they
hoped coal-getting would become a per-
ssr Sd of %£& "s
Singleton. Chambers exulted over troops’
working, including Sunday, and said hence-
forth they would work six days a week,
August 10: Conference of Cabinets
called Ashley says it will be necessary,
after the strike, for troops to work in open-
order to build
up reserves of coal. Chifley says soldiers
will be paid bonus of £5 a week (for six-
day week of 48 hours).
August 11; Chambers makes another
expectations.” Dissension in A.L.P. over
Ministers’ plans.
Aug* 12 : Federal and State Ministers
» Tbufig up^ C S;?es”? g F?d=,al
Government won’t have it. Another report
put it the other way round. Ashley says
SB? Astrzi’** mmes; “ they
August 14: Joint Coal Board announces
that “troops will be withdrawn from mid-
night Sunday night.”
Joint Coal Board also declared that
henceforth unions in opencuts had agreed
to work multiple shifts. -
The political strongman act was as big
a flop as the strike itself in that final
week. It was all very like Kipling’s story
of how Yellow-dog Dingo chased Old
M&.B Kangaroo all over Australia, chased
him because he “wanted to be popular
and very truly run after,” and how finally,
both run to a standstill, they sat down
exhausted in the middle of the continent,
“and each of them said, ‘That’s your
fault!”’
Bargain from the Bush.
H. S. Roberton, the Old Junee (N.S.W.)
farmer who made a reputation for
appearing in Sydney at different times
and saying things disconcerting to
Socialist planners, had a little more to
say just before he withdrew from his
presidency of the Farmers and Settlers’
Association, and it’s worth repeating.
After outlining the effect of Labor-
Socialism on the land industries he
offered a bargain;
Give us back the workers who’vc been
seduced from the land by high city wages
and short hours and we will give you pro-
duction. Give us the coal, the iron and
the steel and we will give more production.
If you cannot give us these necessary
materials, then let us go and buy them else-
where with the currency earned by our
production. v
Give us back the right to live and work
with dignity *as free men and women—to
build our homes, establish our families,
make our farms, run our properties—and
we will give you a period of progress that
will measure up to our splendid past.
That is the bargain country people arc
ready to make with any Government that
has the courage to wipe out this mad
process of Socialism by stealth and the
woe that accompanies it, and restore a
free democracy that will free industry of
the chains of Commilriism and open the
gates of opportunity to every man, woman
and child.
That’s the sort of bargain any com-
munity ought to be eager to seize.
A Victorian Budget.
Justly complaining of the way Victoria
suffers under the uniform-tax system,
Premier Hollway introduced a Budget
which estimates a deficit of nearly two
millions expenditure, £55,669,000 ;
revenue, £53,744,000; deficit,
£1,925,000 (railways £300,000, State
coalmine £105,000, general account
£1,520,000).
Last year the deficit was £1,385,000.
The railways lost £2,826,000 and the
State coalmine £120,000, against a
general-account surplus of £1,561,000.
For 1949-50 the rail deficit would have
been about £4.8 million, but increased
freights and fares ifrom September 1 and
reduction from 4 p.c. to 1 p.c. in interest
on capital charges (both recommended
by a British railway expert who looked
into the matter) are expected to bring it
down to £300,000 —at the same time
transferring a 3 p.c. interest burden to
the general account. The Premier had
to estimate £1,850,000 for “inescapable
rises in costs” in running the railways
and another £3,910,000 for the same
thing in the general account.
The State, in coping with its financial
problems, is handicapped by the unfair
treatment it receives from the Federal
Treasury. At the very beginning
of uniform taxation Victoria was
penalised in reimbursements from the
uniform-tax fund because its State in-
come-tax rate was lower than that of
N. S. Wales, Many of its other taxes
and charges were lower.
The State Grants (Tax Reimburse-
ment) Act, 1946, provides for grants
from uniform income and entertainments
tax to the States according to variation
in State population and any increase in
the level of average wages. On this it
is hard to understand why N.S.W., with
3,459,000 people, got £22 million for
1948-49, whereas Victoria, with 2,111,000
people, got only £12.1 million. This
means that Victorians, who pay the same
Federal dues as the N.S.W. people, got
back in grants about £5 15s. a head,
whereas in N.S.W. they got back £6 7s.
Mr. Hollway contented himself by say-
ing: “Rapid rises in costs and the in-
ability of the State, under uniform taxa-
tion, to derive its proper share of revenue
from rising money incomes has added
to the Government problems.”
Another CapiterSist Plot.
Obviously referring to the collapse of
the coal strike, Mr. Justice Kirby last
week rejected the shipowners’ application
for suspension of watersiders’ attendance
money, saying that he felt “the cdurt
should not make any order at present,
with the knowledge we have of probable
future circumstances.” He added that if
it turned out that the court was being too
optimistic about resumption of work on
the coalfields another application could
be dealt with urgently.
The shipowners’ application was
prompted by the forced laying-up of coal-
burning ships as a result of the strike.
Attendance-money was introduced to
give what had always been a casual in-
dustry some basis of permanence; it
was surely not meant to give watersiders
an advantage over other workers at a
time when virtually all industry was at a
standstill.
But to the Communists Judge Kirby’s
decision was apparently a victory for mob
law. Their Sydney mouthpiece, the
“Tribune,” under a heading “Water-
siders Defeat Owners’ Conspiracy,”
linked it with the wharfies’ mob-demon-
stration in Sydney the previous week,
and warned of a “conspiracy” being
hatched by shipowners against water-
siders’ conditions:
Following the technique used in the coal
strike they will spring this conspiracy on
the waterfront and use their daily papers
to cry “Communist conspiracy” from
every rooftop.
The Communist excuse for the coal
strike was that the miners had struck in
order to foil a capitalist plot to cause a
new depression. This story of a “ship-
owners’ conspiracy” looks very like the
next chapter of the same book.
The Uniform-gauge Plan.
From Alec B, Doyle, Sydney:
“That Railway Plan” (B. 3/ 8 / ’49) gives only
one side of the plan—the ugly possibilities,
particularly strangulation of air and road
transport to bolster up the railways.
There is the other side. Complete statistics
for Australian transport systems are not avail-
able, but those that are indicate that, though
air and road transport have their own fields,
they cannot replace railways as general freight-
carriers, From them it has Been estimated
that, when the administrative, operating and
maintenance staffs for each system of transport,
complete -vvith its ancillaries (railroads, roads,
aerodromes, depots for storing, fuelling, servic-
ing, repairing, etc.) are all taken into account,
rail transport requires only about one-sixteenth
as much manpower per ton-mile of freight
carried as does air transport, and little more
than one-third a§ much as does road transport.
If the real cost, on the same basis, of freight-
carriage by each system, were ascertained and
charged without discrimination, air and road
transport would probably show up no better
in relative costs than in manpower, even though
they carry only the cream of the freight. Rail-
ways are still indispensable in Australia, with
its vast distances and scarce manpower. If
general experience were not enough, the recent
war should have rammed that lesson home, as
well as pointed the added advantage that rail-
ways use Australian coal, while air and road
transport require imported fuels, supplies of
which may be cut off in war.
As railways are indispensable, it is only
commonsense that we should make our railway
system as efficient and economical as possible.
It is reasonable, too, to say that, if our railways
can be made to pay, the main urge to strangle
air and road transport will thereby be removed
—in fact, that seems to be the only business-
like way to remove that menace permanently.
That our railways run at a loss means not
that railways are obsolete but that our railway
set-up needs reorganising. Adoption of a
uniform gauge would make it possible to stan-
dardise designs of rolling-stock over the whole
uniform-gauge system; this would make it pos-
sible to reduce greatly costs of construction and
maintenance of rolling-stock, and also allow
methods for handling freight to be standardised
and simplified to a considerable extent. Over-
seas experience shows that modern standard
methods and equipment could reduce loading
and unloading times to a fraction of existing
times, with concurrent reduction of manpower,
quickening of the turn-round and lessening of
the number of trucks required, with consequent
reduction of capital outlay and maintenance.
With proper co-ordination with road transport,
rail-haulage costs could be reduced also by
eliminating some stops in areas where loading
stations have been placed closer together than
is necessary under modern conditions. Some
non-paying lines could be abandoned.
The list of possible gains is too long to
complete here, but our railways could be run
efficiently and economically if efficiency and
economy were allowed to be the ruling prin-
ciples, and *if adjacent State systems were
adequately linked and properly co-ordinated to
work as a national system rather than com-
peting systems.
It has been estimated that regular internal
transport systems in the Commonwealth cost
in 1947-48 not less than £350,000,000; and to
this probably £200,000,000 should be added for
private and ancillary road transport. The gains
possible from sensible standardisation and co-
ordination, without strangulation, are so great
that no bogy of possible maladministration
should be allowed to stand in the way.
Democracy, to be successful, must elect
responsible Governments arid trust them. If
they betray their trust it must break them. If
we elect impractical extremists and bad adminis-
trators they will ruin Australia whatever trans-
port set-up we may have. The proper answer
o Continued at foot of next page.)
THE PRISONERS’ SONG.
“I wish I had someone to love me,
Someone to-o-o call me their own . . .”


V .
€
6661 E-R
CRAVEN "A”
Their quality and smoothness
is unmistakable
made specially
pteverit sMetfamk
CARRERAS
LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY]
j
j
to the fear of maladministration is not to
abandon sensible planning, but to elect a
sensible Government.
Since Harold Clapp presented his re-
port on the standard five years ago The
Bulletin’s argument has been essentially
this; The work, if it is considered by
transport experts to be essential, should
be given a priority for materials and man-
power after the more pressing needs of
war - depleted and Socialist - stricken
economy, and, if necessary, reserved as
a work-provider in times of industrial
recession. With the present scarcity of
coal and steel and the artificial condition
of “full employment” The Bulletin dis-
trusts the “works plans” of the Govern-
ment responsible for many of the pre-
vailing chaotic conditions. The coastal
shipping industry needs to be fully re-
suscitated on the inter-State freight-
carrying side before a number of things
can be judged. Why isn’t our shipping
industry, ideal for inter-State freight
carriage around a continent shaped like
Australia, given a fair deal by “Labor”
and “Labor” unions? There is no doubt
that a uniform railway gauge in Aus-
tralia would be an advantage—how great
in peace-time debatable, but unquestion-
able in war-time. The main questions
are how and when, and at what physical
cost to the rest of the economy.
POLITICAL POINTS
“Hi-ho, hi-ho, it’s back to work we
go” might well have been the theme-
song of the miners on Monday. Tens of
thousands of their fellow-unionists who
had no voice in making the calamitous
decision to blackmail Australian industry
would have liked to have been in a posi-
tion to sing it, too. For them more job-
less weeks loomed ahead. The lag in re-
sumption of industry might have been
shortened had the miners offered to purge
their contempt of the public by work-
ing extra or longer shifts until the short-
age was overcome. No such offer was
forthcoming. For anyone else to sug-
gest it would, of course, be reactionary
Fascism.
In the dying days of the strike Ashley
and Chambers spoke big words about the
continued employment of troops in the
opencuts. The work was to be a valu-
able part of their training. It was not a
very sensible suggestion, but the two
Ministers spoke as if they meant it. By
Saturday, after conferences with N. S.
Wales Cabinet and with mining-union
leaders, the tune , was changed; the
“Fixer” had discovered that “troops
didn’t enlist to get out coal.” Instead, an
arrangement was announced whereby
miners would work multiple shifts “where
necessary.” Were the Ministers bluffing
or have they been bluffed?
Most ludicrous spectacle of the week:
Calwell, pastmaster in the art of invec-
tive, appealing to the public not to call
migrants names which “might eventually
assume unpleasant undertones.”
It’s an ironic commentary on this
Golden Age, but nonetheless true, that
while the end of the strike means that
hundreds of thousands will get their jobs
back after two months of enforced idle-
ness it will also mean, for Sydney at any
rate, a return to the condition of chronic
blackouts which were the order of the
day—and night—during May and June.
The Premiers —three Labor and three
Liberal —gathered in Canberra yester-
day, all with the one idea —to try to
squeeze another million or so out of
Chifley by way of reimbursement from
the uniform-tax fund. All of them need
money badly to meet rising costs of
State administration, and McGirr, who
rushed in ahead of the Arbitration
Court with his 40-hour week —a 1947
election stunt which has cost Australia
millions —needs it most. Next year his
crowd faces the electors again, and with-
out money or the promise of it he can’t
promise another 90,000 houses in three
years, electrified railways to Lithgow and
Newcastle, free beer on Sundays, and
other things.
The Premiers’ Conference meets in a
troubled atmosphere. The coal strike,
petrol-rationing and petrol tax, State
grants, dollars, still-rising costs, “Labor’s”
dispersed nationalisation dreams, the
imminent Federal election (which plainly
has “Labor” scared stiff) and Chifley’s
obvious intention to hang on to every
penny he can get—he told the States to
increase motor fees if they wanted better
roads, and reminded them that uniform
taxation didn’t stop them taxing things
other than income if they wanted money
—don’t suggest that there’ll be much
sweet reasonableness to spare in Can-
berra this week.
A couple of days after Immigration
Minister Calwell welcomed the 50,000 th
displaced person to Australia —a migrant
ship was diverted to Fremantle so that
the bewildered migrant could receive
King Arthur’s handshake —the Prime
Minister named as one of the factors
preventing maximum production of coal
a shortage of 1800 miners. It must
be two years or more since the employ-
ment of migrants in mines was first sug-
gested. The Miners’ Federation —or its
Communist leaders —objected. Presum-
ably they still object.
Last month, in announcing a recipro-
city agreement with New Zealand,
Senator McKenna said that it would “in
broad effect make Australia and New
Zealand one country so far as social
services are concerned.” As far as defence
is concerned they are apparently to re-
main two separate countries, with New
Zealand enforcing universal training and
Australia, through “Labor” prejudice,
sticking to the unfair voluntary system.
Of course, there may be a secret clause
in the Anzac Pact whereby New
Zealand supplies the men and Australia
pushes the buttons.
Menzies’s Queensland tour seems to
have been pretty successful ; the man’s
eloquence and bearing at least ensure him
a hearing wherever he goes—even from
his political opponents. To Brisbane
wharfies he spoke on the secret ballot,
saying he would like to see the principle
adopted as a rule of unions, not as some-
thing wished on them. The watersiders,
who at a “show of hands” meeting had
voted for stop-work protests against the
jailing of Healy and Roach, heard him
out without interruption, standing in
drizzling rain to listen.
It was suggested (B. 27/7/’49)
that Cahill, the Sydney Minister for Local
Government, might find a tangled knot in
the cases of A. E. Doberer and A. David-
son, who were sacked by Newcastle City
Council because they refused, on religious
grounds, to join a union. Judge Cantor,
in the Industrial Court last week, held
that a “very important principle” was in-
volved in a conscientious objection to
joining a union. He called on Newcastle
Council to show cause why Doberer
shouldn’t be reinstated without loss of
salary or privileges.
The Victorian Government-run coal-
mine at Wonthaggi is, in Premier Holl-
way’s opinion, not worth its cost of up-
keep. It produces 2000 tons of “inferior
coal” a week (when the miners work) and
the loss on operations is £120,000 annually.
When, on top of this, the workers in a
nationalised mine not only strike as they
do elsewhere against any company em-
ployer, but vote, solidly for continuing the
strike when all other mines vote for a
return to work, it seems about time the
farce of keeping it going was ended.
Senator Armstrong some time ago said
of bank nationalisation that if the Bank
Act were proved unconstitutional “there
are men of ingenuity in the Cabinet who
will see that it is brought into existence.”
Those men of ingenuity must be doing
some hard thinking at the present time,
but they are not likely to announce the
results of their labors before election-
time.
The strike caused the unavoidable post-
ponement of many functions, and was
used as an excuse for the postponement
of many more. In the latter category
may be included the Redfern by-election.
George Noble died on July 9 ; date of
the poll hasn’t been announced yet. Red-
fern was G.-G. McKell’s seat; Noble re-
placed him when he was elevated to
Yarralumla. At the 1947 election the late
member won comfortably with an abso-
lute majority of 6222 over his three
opponents —a Lang man,- a Protestant
Labor candidate and a Comrade. His
successor for the A.L.P. nomination won’t
have such an easy run —Redfern was
badly hit by the coal strike.
The attempt to decentralise higher
education by establishing a branch of the
Melbourne University at Mildura has
failed, though good work was done on
rehab, students while the institution
lasted. So the hopes of the citizens of the
dried-fruit metropolis of having a great
Alma Mater in their midst have vanished.
The reason is that professors and lec-
turers as well as students aren’t prepared
to sacrifice the amenities of the city for
the rural life, even though Mildura has
the longest bar in existence.
Brisbane’s Lord Mayor Chandler in-
tends to go ahead with the launching of
his Freedom League against Communism.
His original appeal, at Ipswich, for a
public movement “to protect human
rights, human liberties and human
freedom” brought him a visit from Evatt’s
security police. Such a sequel would have
been incredible in the days before
Socialism —half-way house to Com-
munism—became enthroned at Canberra.
Surest sign that the Comrades realised
the strike was as good as over came last
Wednesday when Sydney “Tribune” gave
pride of place on four of jits eight pages
to the Dobson harbor-swim story. It
could scarcely have got wider coverage if
the “Trib.” had been tipped off in
advance.
Last Christmas, appealing to his fol-
lowers for solidarity in election year, the
Prime Minister said:
I know that the Federal Parliamentary
Labor Party can look with confidence for
that support, and so I am certain that
1949 will be a happy New Year for the
Labor movement.
Let’s see. The High Court invalidated
petrol-rationing and decided against the
Government in the O’Keefe case. The
Privy Council rejected the Banking
Appeal, and 20,000 of Mr. Chifley’s pre-
sumed supporters held the rest of Aus-
tralia up to ransom for eight weeks,
putting hundreds of thousands out of
work. In combating the coal strike
“Labor” threw overboard half a shipload
of the principles it had cherished for a
lifetime. There are still four months to
go, but the newness has worn off the
year. As to happiness —perhaps that’s
round the corner.
Won’t we ever see the last of this ab-
surd parochialism! *Hedditch, a Vic-
torian M.L.A., wants the Melbourne
Government to hurry up and build a
deep-sea port at Portland because the
Adelaide Government proposes one at
Cape Jaffa, across the border, and may
draw western Victorian produce to it if
there isn’t a port at Portland. If South
Australia’s south-east and Victoria’s
south-west haven’t enough trade for two
ports, then the obvious thing is to have
one port. There is a New State move-
ment afoot down that way. It had better
get a move on or squabbles like this will
wreck it before it starts.
As an outcome of the strike there has
been a reaction in union circles against
the use of the word “comrade.” In
Adelaide and Melbourne there have been
complaints against its use at union meet-
ings, and even on the N.S.W. coalfields
speakers were booed for using it. Com-
rade was a noble word until it fell on
evil days. Its fate is just another example
of how Communism contaminates and
befouls everything it touches.
Ever since Canberra was deprived of
petrol-rationing by the High Court
Chifley has been at the States to take it
on themselves. But they got a lesson
when they took on price-control, and
none of them but holds it against the
Prime Minister that he won’t spar up
bigger grants for road-making from the
excessive, unfair and expanding petrol-
tax fund.
Six months ago, during a spate of
minor strikes, Victorian A.L.P. president
Broadby said:
We of the industrial movement should
do everything in our power to avoid strikes
between now and next November. Union-
ists should ask themselves before they
indulge in strikes whether the benefits they
might win would outweigh the possible
effects on the future of the Chifley Govern-
ment.-
The statement was typical of a dozen
others made in recent months by alleged
“Labor” leaders; the policy could be
summed up as “lay off until after the
elections,” and it helped to pre-
cipitate the strike by encouraging miners
and their Red bosses to believe that the
.Government would accept any demands
rather than risk a hold-up of industry in
election year.
Communist vituperation and libei on
Commissioner and witnesses in the royal
commission on Communism has led the
Victorian Government to pass a bill to
empower the Suprertie Court to deal with
contempt committed in respect of the
commission, but beyond its jurisdiction,
which is limited to the court. The bill has
been passed through all stages in face
of violent opposition from Mr. Cain and
some of his supporters.*
At least we know now just what was
meant by those ads. exhorting young
men to “Join the Army and learn a
trade.”
The mines reopened on Monday,
August 15, the fourth anniversary of
V.P.-Day. That victory found the Can-
berra “Labor” Government unprepared
for it. Is it any more prepared now?
Sydney suburbs have been undergoing
a leaflet bombardment —scarcely a letter-
box has been free of the things, mostly
of Communist origin, bold in type and
assertive in content, but weak in logic
and facts. Premier McGirr should study
these handbills, most of which violently
attack his party, and cast his thoughts
ahead to the next State election. A flood
of similar handbills scattered during his
three-day ban on political comment could
make savage attacks which he would find
hard to counter unless prepared to
break his own law.
The “Wall-street Journal” said it:
“The American consumer cannot expect
wool to become much cheaper soon, but
synthetic fibres promise to lend him an
increasingly strong hand in pulling down
wool prices.” Yes, the wool-price picnic
can’t last for ever.
Premier Hanlon will support an appli-
cation to Prime Minister Chifley for an-
other halfpenny a pound on the retail
price of sugar because “higher wages,
shorter hours and bigger freights and
bagging costs have added to producers’
expenses.” Very wisely he didn’t say who
was responsible for those things.
According to a Sydney morning news-
paper the “Communist Strike Leaders
Admit Defeat.” A few more such
“defeats” and the Communists may as
well take over the country.
Senator Armstrong, Minister for Supply
and Development, is to inspect uranium
deposits in the Hart Range, South Aus-
tralia. Is there an atom of use in that?


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Lord Luvus”: The Melbourne Uni-
versity official who referred to overseas
students as “Overstewed seedents” prob-
ably provided still another example of
Freud’s generalisation that such mistakes
are determined by something in the un-
conscious. No doubt the overseas
students aren’t overstewed yet and haven’t
quite run to seed, but if there is any-
thing more calculated to produce that
result than modem university education
I would like to see it. An intelligent girl
of my acquaintance took a rehabilitation
course in psychology, and the number of
books she read in two short years was
astounding. Soon she was analysing the
life-work of Freud, Jung and Adler,
and telling great thinkers where they
got off. When you talk to her now
you can see her mind working try-
ing to remember something she has
read in some book or other. Her
own experiences don’t seem to concern
her for a moment. She has even found
time to become a qualified critic of music,
though she can’t play a note or even read
one, and now you hear her saying of a
conductor: “I liked his Bach, but I didn’t
like his Tschaikowsky. I don’t think he
understands him.” She has now got a job
in some Government department where
she will be told to go round amongst the
lower orders collecting data when she has
as much data as any psychologist could
”Would you mind staying back tonight. Miss Notem? I get nervous
in these blackouts.“
wish for in her own family and the
relationship between her and her
husband. If she isn’t interested in that,
all the books in the world won’t teach
her to be a psychologist. AH they will
do is overstew her.
* * * *
“Spike”: City pedestrians finding them-
selves tripped out of their reveries and
sprawled flat on the pavement might find
the cause in present fashions. Young
ladies are currently wearing their hand-
bags low, the idea being that they should
hang from the shoulder on a long leather
strap. But in practice they seem to favor
letting them swing from the hand just
skimming the pavement, though happily
my expert tells me the fashion will not
last. Some of these handbags have a
familiar look about them. One noted
was an article identical with that used by
newspaper boys to hold their takings,
except that it was of yellow leather, stiff
with its newness, and toned in well with
its owner’s clobber. Another, with its
identity almost hidden with a high polish,
was a square leather box. It will never
burst at the seams through the over-
loading young ladies put on their hand-
bags, and it is doing finer things than it
was ever meant for. It was built to hold
a 3in. mortar-sight.
* * * *
“D.E.”: There is a moving archaic
touch in Una Pope-Hennessy’s book on
Dickens apropos of Charles’s last read-
ings in the U.S.A., “four nights in suc-
cession” for four months, which shortened
his fife:
The money takings were really exciting.
He was able to remit £3OOO in gold, at
7$ to the £, on December 15, 1867 [27
days after his arrival from Liverpool], and
a month later consigned another £lO,OOO
to London.
At seven dollars to the pound. Alas for
those times! The novelist could scarcely
have done as well in Australia, though in
Australia, which idolised him, he was
always interested. He “consigned” to
this country not only the Micawbers, the
Peggottys and Magwitch, but two of his
sons. One was an M.L.A. in Sydney for
a time. Nothing is remembered of him
but an anecdote which concerned also
Nick Willis, a racy character of half a
century ago whom I met in Perth (W.A.)
when Nick was putting the width of the
continent, with that of the Indian Ocean
to be added, between himself and a nasty
Land Scandals Commission, In Mac-
quarie-street one night Mr. Willis was
stonewalling, and Mr. Dickens was
granted leave to intervene. “A character
in one of my father’s books,” he said,
“was given to uttering the words ‘Barkis
is willin’.’ I protest for this suffering
House that ‘Willis is barkin’.’ ”
* * * *
“Brolga”: Schoolday experiences con-
vinced me that the David and Goliath
story is a misleading tale, and that in
practice it is best to be polite to bigger
boys. Driving a small car round Sydney
nowadays I stick to the same principle
and give way to trams, buses, semi-
trailers and trucks whether they have the
right-of-way or not. At a busy inter-
section a few days ago the traffic-cop
waved me on, but seeing a bus looming
up on my left and apparently about to
cut across my bows, I hesitated. “Come
on,” yelled the man in blue. “I won’t let
him hit you.”
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: If making the Com-
munists ludicrous can help to make them
harmless the industrious souls who prowl
Sydney by night altering and improving
their slogans are doing good work. Thus
I was pleased to see that “Vote Healy
for Progress,” chalked on the wharf-sheds
at Woolloomooloo, has been brought
nearer the truth by crossing out
“Progress” and substituting, in large
letters above it, “CHAOS.” Nobody,
however, seems to have thought of sub-
editing or amending the slogans of
Sydney’s most energetic signwriter—the
gentleman who at the summit of the
strenuous McElhone Stairs, and at other
places favorable to meditation on the
briefness and perils of life, chalks in a
flowing script the alarming word
‘‘Eternity.” There is an answer for Com-
munism ; but there is no answer, I fear,
for that one.
* * * j,.
“X.M.N.”: A fish cate in my Tas-
manian town has installed a deodoriser.
This modern marvel may be an every-
day affair on the mainland; here it has
been a nine-days’ wonder. The proprietor
put an ad. in the local rag drawing atten-
This should have enough in it to boil an egg for lunch.”
tion to the apparatus and extolling the
advantages of eating under the new con-
ditions. It concluded with the words:
“Chew without pooh.”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Notice on a suburban
motor garage: “After 4 p.m. petrol must
be pumped by hand —YOUR hand.”,
* * * *
“V, Cluse”: The Water Board has half
our street opened up and is putting in
great 12in. mains in trenches four to six
feet deep. At night the open trenches
are roped off, but that meant nothing to
our drunk, who, in the current beer short-
age, has been doing the best he can on
spirits. Drifting home the other night
he encountered the ropes, fell through
them and into the trench, where he
floundered around for a while and then
decided on a sleep. When he awoke he
saw the street fight shining on the yawning
end of a 12in. pipe, which gaped at him
over the wall of the trench. “Don’t
shoot!” yelped our drunk. “Y’ can have
all I got.”
* * * *
“Suburbia”: Army biscuits (B.
10/8/’49)? Into the making of ’em went
the best ingredients, of high nutritional
value, but even more than that went as
dinkum a bit of home-front war-effort
as could be desired. I’ve seen the girls
who packed them working far into the
night to catch up with orders. The bane
of the job was the roughness of the
biscuits ; I’ve seen some of the lasses with
every finger bound with sticking-plaster.
Though they groaned when told it was
their turn on army “bread,” the girls grew
to like them and used to spread them
with butter for their morning-tea breaks.
“Exdig”: Army biscuits could be used.
I was one of a small section attached to
another unit for rations, but we had to
do our own cooking and decided to take
turns. My contribution was meat-pie.
Using the halves of a divided petrol-tin
as dishes, I fined sides and bottoms with
biscuit, poured in the stewed meat and
put on a roof of more biscuits ; over that
went a paste of mashed potatoes, turnips
and onions, and the lot stood by the fire
until a delicate toast came to the vege-
table paste. Soaked with the liquid of
the stew, the biscuits made splendid pie-
pastry. The boys soft-soaped me into
carrying on for the two remaining days
of our picquet and showed appreciation
by polishing off the pies in quick order;
their enthusiasm so built my reputation
that the day after my return the Old
Man tried to persuade me to become
sergeant cook to the officers’ mess; the
proposal was dodged with difficulty.
$ jfc jjj Jjc
“L.W.”: Coastal charts (B. 3/8/’49)?
I recently needed charts covering a
course from Brisbane to Rabaul. The
main steamer-track along the course was
well charted and well lit; no more
difficult than driving down Pitt-street.
Outside this strip there was little or no
information. The D’Entrecasteaux Reefs
in the East Solomon Sea were marked
as having been “sighted” some time in the
late 18th century. Charting of most
small islands was anything up to ten
miles out. Inaccuracies in the charting
of a coral reef are understandable, as.
coral is by no means static. On a
trochus lugger north of Cairns so much
of the chart was blank that most of our
navigating was done with a “boy” at the
masthead. The further north we went
the blanker the chart. Provided that the
charts are taken as an indication and not
as fact they are quite useful.
* * * ♦
“Spare Corp”; “D.E.” (B. 3/ 8 /’49)
cannot have wandered much about the
newer suburbs of Sydney if he has not
met whole areas in which there is hardly
a street which does not carry a memory
of World War I; similar new suburbs
are growing with the memories of the
more recent upheaval well enshrined.
Moreover, even the Boer War is remem-
bered in a few Mafeking and Magers-
fontein streets. It is the old soldier
settling down in his retirement from
adventure who tries to immortalise the
memories of his war days on the road-
map.
* * * *
“Flathead”: Most of us spend part of
our early life in trying to acquire tact,
usually to find some moment when we
forget all about it, and to be probably
labelled thereafter as totally devoid of
that quality. With Spring opening its
wonderful eyes a neighbor invited me out
on his launch for a harbor trip. Seated up
in the bow, taking the salt air and sun-
light, I drifted miles away from the finer
points of tact, the conversation from the
stern of the boat barely penetrating. I
remember something about “No, Angus,
don’t eat all those yourself—offer some
to the others.” Something touched me
on the elbow and, turning, I saw the
small boy Angus pointing a bag of lollies
at me. I took one. “Gee,” wailed
Angus, “there were only four left.” That
launch had a crimson figurehead for the
rest of the trip.
» ♦ * ♦
“Mac Fergus”: Mine host of the pub
at Kaimkifienbun (Q’land) had no in-
hibitions as a debt-collector. His system
was forthright and efficient. A notice
displayed in the bar read: “Joe Hang-
over owes two bob for two months.
Bumper Dryman owed four-and-six, paid
two bob, still owes two-and-six.” The
two men paid up and so did a lot of
others, including me.
* * * ♦
“F.S.”: In handing over another
£lO,OOO-worth of pictures to the National
Gallery in Melbourne, Alexander Stewart,
of the Felton Bequest, mentioned that
the deceased chemist’s benefactions to
that institution now total £796,750.
Alfred Felton’s instructions to his execu-
tors were as ambiguous as Archibald’s
to his. Archibald wanted his prize given
for the best portrait of the year, prefer-
ably of a person distinguished in Aus-
tralian art, literature or politics. Felton
desired that “only works are to be pur-
chased calculated to elevate the public
taste,” Archibald hasn’t got the gallery
he hoped for, and although Melbourne
now has a fine collection, if some of the
pictures purchased by the Felton Bequest
have elevated the public taste, it must
have been pretty low before they got
here. Nobody could cavil at some of
the purchases—they include one of the
best Rembrandts in existence, the Corots,
the Raeburns, the Tintoretto, the Rodins,
the Turners and the famous Van Eyck,
but in the realm of contemporary or
near-contemporary art, of which hun-
dreds of samples have been purchased, it
is pretty certain the buyers have made
precisely the same bloomers as the buyers
of the past, who, when Corot was virtu-
ally unknown and some of his pictures
were obtainable, in Paris for as little as
20 francs, preferred to pay high prices
for fashionable academicians who are
now forgotten. Before El Greco came
into fashion good works by him could
have been bought for a very small sum.
Now that he is belatedly recognised as
one of the really great, the Felton would
have to pay at least £lOO.OOO for a good
example.
FLOWERS IN WINTER.
The poet witnesseth an early spring, and feareth
for its continuance.
Earlier than for many years
Spring called in here one day last week,
Watered our carpets with her tears,
And tremblingly began to speak:
“Tell me,” she said, so sad and gloomy,
“Why no one seems to want to know me!”
“We’ve cause,” we said, “to feel dejected.
With floods and strikes and everything;
The winter’s been so unexpected.
We start at any sudden spring,
And how can we be sure you’re not
Another Communistic plot?”
“It’s time some people pulled their heads ini”
Said the irate, unclothed young lady.
“If I’ve been seen among the Reds in
Europe on almost every May Day,
That’s only north of the Equator—
At worst, I’m only half a traitor.”
A migrant, half a Bolshevist!
We didn’t like her chance at all well;
If suddenly she should be., missed,
The first to blame is Arthur Calwell:
On being told that Spring’s in town,
He’s just the man to run her down.
In Melbourne she may fall to scarcity
If someone issues a report on
Her presence at the University—
A Norton come to life with naught on 1
In Canberra, Evatt, if he sees her,
May promulgate a rule to freeze her.
The chances are against her stopping,
Encompassed by such mortal fear;
Or, yet again, she may go shopping—
She hasn’t got a thing to wear!
And women, whether wives or goddesses,
Admit no change but change of bodices.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


a
m
m
•v^
\y # I
On your wedding day, you, as the
earning unit in the family add to your
responsibilities. This responsibility
can be adequately met by arranging
with the Equitable Probate & General
Insurance Co. Ltd. for a suitable life
assurance policy— contact the com-
pany to-day and discuss this important
matter.
R. /. PERKINS, General Manager.
ĵ
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs-—No Cushions
This latest inVention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried It.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, bold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARBERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26i), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
HUNTER
CIGARETTES
I
>
$£Jms
rtUHW^
r **
4'.
Cb
$
fi so
faveaHunW
s.\^y^v' s
....and again smoke
a favoured blend
2'9 for 20
EVERYWHERE
distributors MAURICE NEWSTEAD PTY. IE l« CASTUREAGH STREET. ’ SYDNEY
*
fyusnoer
N2
GUARANTEE!?. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
“Bo”: The builder’s laborer on the
job when my house was built before the
war was a dynamo of energy who whistled
and sang all day at his work. One day
a piece of guttering fell on his foot, in-
flicting a nasty gash. The boss wanted
to run him to hospital. Bill refused, but
asked the boss to get a needle and thread
from a woman in a near-by house, after
which Bill performed a little rough
surgery on himself. Then he tied a
handkerchief around his foot and went
on with the job. At present, three blocks
away, a new house is being built. The
builder’s laborer, a lugubrious young man
whose beautifully varnished hair is cut
in the Cornel Wilde mode, seems to
divide most of the time till he knocks off
at quarter to four in gazing dreamily at
the heap of mortar and looking at his
reflection in a small mirror which he
drags out of his pocket every so often.
Going past the place the other day I saw
something gleaming in the hair of the
b.-l. as he bent over the mortar-heap. It
was a butterfly-clip designed apparently
to keep an errant lock from falling over
his eyes! I’m sure that if a schoolgirl
had rushed up and hit him hard on the
wrist with an Iceland poppy he would
have swooned. But his refusal to be as
sturdily Australian as his earlier counter-
part would, it is certain, endear him to
the Communist bosses of his union.
*** m *
“W.R.0,”: I was talking with our
parson, and the subject of public fare-
wells came up. He chuckled. “Did I ever
tell you about my send-off from Central
Queensland? They sang my praises and
presented me with a fat wallet. I began
to feel sorry for leaving such apprecia-
tive people. Fingering the yielding full-
ness, I thanked them most fervently.
“Well, I told you to cut Polly's wing."
speculating the while just how much I
was being grateful for. I soon found
out —a pouch of tobacco.”
** • ♦
“Bethune”: A couple of months ago
there appeared on this page a par. about
The Bulletin’s Billy Albert and his
acquaintanceship with the postmistress at
Peconic, on Long Island,, U.S.A. Here’s
the sequel. Peconic is a one-store, no-pub
village 89 miles from New York, the tiny
hub of a small farming community. Billy
clipped out the par. and sent it to Katie,
the postmistress. Last week he received
a note from her thanking him for the
par. and saying she had already seen it.
It had been brought to her by an Aus-
tralian bride living at Nassau Point, three
miles from Peconic. The Aussie girl’s
parents had sent her the item, asking if
she knew Katie. She did.
• * * *
“Lao-dah”: The Dalai Lama, a boy of
12, has ruled adversely against the send-
ing of another British expedition to scale
Mount Everest on the grounds that con-
ditions on that peak will be “unfavorable
for some years.” The D.L. is allegedly
an incarnation of Buddha and the re-
pository of the wisdom of the ages, which
apparently includes a knowledge of
diplomacy, for his refusal couldn’t have
been couched in more discreet language
even if it had been framed by Dr.
Evatt. Tibet is close to Asiatic Russia,
just as was the present Dalai’s birthplace.
When a Dalai Lama dies, a band of lamas
tours the country inspecting newborn
babies to find one with the marks neces-
sary to identify it as the next incarnation
of Buddha. When Chinese political influ-
ence was paramount in the Hermit King-
dom, by a curious coincidence, he was
always found near the Chinese border.
* * * ♦
“Uramao”: The rival editors in my
village used to clip leading articles from
the city papers. One at least had the
decency to alter the top and the tail to
give the articles an appearance of
originality; the other lifted them
bodily, heading and all. Once the
former had “scissored” out an article
which he was holding for an occasion
when its use would be opportune, I en-
tered his office and found him reading
the rival rag. He brandished it in my
face and fulminated about the dishonesty
of modern journalism and the literary
pirates who were abroad. The rival
editor had scooped him with it.
* * * *
“RS.”: I am sure “Nunk” meant to
be complimentary when he asked (B.
3/ 8 / ’49) how many other Australian
artists there were besides Norman Lind-
say whose style could be recognised at
a glance. I could name a dozen, and if
we go into the world class I suppose the
number of children who could recognise
Walt Disney’s style would run into mil-
lions. It is a different matter when we
come to the great artists. How many
connoisseurs, critics or even artists could
differentiate between a portrait by
Titian and a portrait by Velasquez, Rem-
brandt or Tintoretto, except in subject-
matter? Rembrandt painted Jews and
beggars, Velasquez painted kings and
courtiers and Titian painted doges and
madonnas, but they all had something
universal in common which had nothing
to do with style or subject-matter. That
is why the “experts” get into such fright-
ful muddles when an Old Master, real
or alleged, is discovered and why they
have to use X-rays and all sorts of other
methods on it merely to find out the
period when it was painted. The lesser
men can always be detected. Anybody
can distinguish between an Orpen or a
Lambert, but if the “Doge Loredano” in
the National Gallery in Melbourne hadn’t
been signed by Tintoretto I doubt if the
j Felton Bequest buyers could have told
■ by whom it was painted.
* * * ♦
“Clooter”; I see another scientist has
come to light with an elixir to prolong
I life, and there’s talk of people living to
be 150. I’m against it. Suppose poli-
ticians started taking the stuff and it
worked!
* * * *
“Helldud”: Tastes of alcoholics are
unpredictable. I nominate a french-
-polisher with whom I was associated 50
years ago as the pioneer metho addict.
Strict supervision was responsible. Un-
able to bring his beverages into the work-
shop, he used to swig his shine ingredient,
and appeared to thrive on it. A chemist
I knew favored metho with a lump of
camphor and chlorodyne added. He also
drank perfume. But he had nothing on a
grocer whose favorite gargles were metho
. and kerosene, vinegar and Worcester-
shire sauce. The strangest choice v/as
made by a teetotal truck-driver. Found
unconscious in his cab on the Monaro
last winter, he was taken to hospital,
where, after being divested of three sets
of undies, outer garments. Balaclava,
overcoat, etc., he informed his astonished
medico that “It was so blarsted cold I
had three swigs of that ‘anti-freeze’ stuff
I carry for the radiator.”
PLEA FROM A BOARDER.
“Cables announce that the Communist Government
In Hungary has nationalised guesthouses at holiday
resorts.”
Fm writing, dear Prime Minister,
With anguish in my heart,
Lest what’s been done in Hungary
Encourage you to start
In emulative flattery
With accent on the flat —
Please, my dear Prime Minister,
Don’t do that.
A U can socialise the shipping-lines
And socialise the banks,
You can even range the taxi-cabs
In socialistic ranks;
You can socialise the bookies i
In the Leger and the Flat,
But leave the boarding-house alone.
Don’t touch that.
*1 can see a mental picture,
a A ° d - thought distresses me;
A chain of Gov’ment guest-homes
From the mountains to the sea;
Each manager, each waiter,
Every cook a bureaucrat—
-1 beseech you, Mr. Chifley,
Don’t do that.
There’ll be forms to fill for breakfast,
For lunch and morning tea,
And a questionnaire (in triplicate,
Marked plainly, 1,2, 3);
An inspector with a stopwatch
Upon the bathroom mat —
Please, my dear Prime Minister,
Don’t do that.
No hiking down the mountain tracks—
Just regimented walks;
Instead of pleasant smokeroom yarns—
Discussion-groups and talks,
And lecturers, all Calwell-trained,
With propaganda pat—
I beg you, Mr. Chifley,
Don’t do that.
You can socialise the picture-shows
And roller-skating rinks;
You can socialise the milk-bars
And their airy-fairy drinks,
But hands off the guest-house,
You darned old autocrat!
Please, Mr. Chifley,
Really, Mr. Chifley,
I beseech you, Mr. Chifley,
Don’t touch that.
N.S.W.
JASBY.


ABORIGINALIYIES
“Standby” comes in with some eeri-
ness :
Coming down the New Guinea coast during
the war —voyage Morobe to Milne Bay—we
were in the vicinity of Cape Ward Hunt. It
was my watch, and for once on that rain-
drenched coast I was having an easy time. The
sea was flat calm, the night was dark: moonless
but quite clear. I was leaning over the dodger,
keeping an eye out for north-bound shipping,
when I saw a light patch of water ahead. I
knew the ship’s position to a tenth of a mile,
for Td just taken some bearings and plotted
them on the chart. We were right on our
course, and between us and Cape Ward Hunt
there was nothing but deep water. I ran up
the ladder to the standard compass. Fine on
the starb’d bow and about six miles distant
the cape was clearly visible. We had
approached it on this course a dozen times
“ Bluebeard ”
without seeing anything unusual, yet this night
half e a W m S ile a ship
I put it down to some form of phosphores-
cence, and held my course and speed. But,
viewed through the night-glasses as we drew
closer, I realised that it was unlike any display
of phosphorus I’d ever seen. It resembled a
gigantic electric light burning under water. I
Man
standby seaman to call the Old Man. When
he arrived, still rubbing his eyes, I pointed it
out, but he scoffed at my phosphorus theory—
said that in 35 years at sea he’d never seen
phosphorus like it.
We held our course, passing right over the
light, and it lit the ship with a brilliance that
surpassed even the brightest moon. On a
blackboard banging well back in the bridge
I had chalked the challenge and reply signal
of the night. The letters were small, yet, as
we passed over that light, I could clearly dis-
tinguish each one from a distance of several
feet.
We judged the lighted patch to be well over
an acre in extent. Passing" through it there was
no display of phosphorescence in our bow-
wave or wake, only this bright, eerie light
shining upwards, not steadily, like a fixed light,
but pulsating, as though someone down below
the sea was switching a dimmer on and off.
The standby seaman expressed the opinion that
there was a sub. down there with a searchlight
burning. Either that or a ship had just gone
down with all lights burning, he said. The
gunner of the watch, a devout man, hinted at
the supernatural.
Although the Old Man and I laughed at
their fanciful theories we were unable to offer
an explanation, nor have I yet heard one put
forward. We reported the incident at Naval
Control at Buna and Milne Bay, but at that
time too many things were happening on the
New Guinea coast for anyone to take more
than a passing interest in a patch of submarine
light. I’m still waiting for theories.
* * * *
“Zake”: It was Reedy who first saw
the fire at Crandon’s. By the time he had
roused a couple of neighbors along the
road and reached CrandonV the fire had
a good hold. While they started a bucket-
brigade going the owner stood outside
in his .pyjamas, looking dazed as the
flames leaped up the walls. Then he sud-
denly seenjfed to come to life and made
for the front door of the burning house.
Hopkins grabbed at him to hold him
back, but Crandon flung him off and
dashed into the building. Anxious eyes
watched, but a minute later he staggered
out, coughing and choking with the
smoke. “Cripes!” said Reedy, aghast.
“Couldn’t you find your missus?”
Crandon held up an object. “I went back
to get me top set,” he said. “I thought
you blokes would’ve got her!”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We camped on the
Noorong-road, about eight miles out of
Barham, one night, and about the first
thing we saw next morning was a kero-
sene-case standing near the ashes of our
fire. It contained a store order of tinned
dog and tinned fish, packets of flour, tea,
sugar and raisins, tomato-sauce and
pickles, tobacco and papers, two Mel-
bourne daily papers and a well-known
weekly with a red cover, and three bottles
each of ale and stout. We looked about,
but there was nobody in sight. “Did y’
hear anythin’ last night?” Mat asked. I
hadn’t. Mat stared round at the inscrut-
able bush. “Oh, well,” he said, “maybe
that yarn about the Jews findin’ tucker
dropped from heaven when they was doin’
a bunk out of Egypt was fair dinkum.”
“But we ain’t Jews,” I said. We took
another look at the contents of the box,
and I know each of us eyed the ale wist-
fully, but there was no docket or any
other means of identifying the donor. In
the end we tramped back to Barham,
made inquiries and there located an
astonished delivery man who announced
that he’d been told to deliver the things
to two coves camped by a bridge and had
done so - 101611 we found that the ri B htful
owners were a mile further from us, on
bridge repairs, so the delivery man put us
• , . . . w f
in 1116 van ancl took US to them. We got
a bottle of beer each for our trouble,
which made US feel guilty, because we’d
looted that case to some extent—yes, we
. , , Jr , . ~ ; r>„+
pinched the red-covered weekly. But
then anybody was likely to do that.
“Billy T.”: When Mat ambled along
behind those sheep heading north from
Cookardinia (B. 27/7/’49), he crossed a
shallow dip where I was once miracu-
lously delivered from becoming the owner
of a motor-car. It was when “baby”
cars first arrived, and an agent took me
to Cook* for the match against Little
Billabong in a vehicle like an animated
butter-box with a sheet of glass stuck
up on one side. We made good time from
“I never COULD reach between my shoulder-blades with a sponge. ”
Mangoplah, though over the rough
patches—and there were some then—the
chariot behaved as though there was a
wallaby amongst its ancestors; but, com-
ing out on to the flat, fate was waiting
beside one of those wide, shallow gutters
that allow drainage from one water-table
to the other. We reached the edge as a
huge American car did the same from
the other side, but he was travelling much
faster, and as he hit the bottom his great
tyres flung about a tubful of mud straight
at us. I saw it coming and ducked, but
the agent had just reached his peroration
and was forcing facts into my face at
short range when the avalanche hit him.
Apart from the indignity of having to
stop by the wayside and excavate through
much muck to recover one’s vehicle, then
wear a mudpack till clean- water was
reached, I couldn’t face the risk of
riding anything' on which I would be
unable to scoot to the cattle-track beside
the road on the approach of danger, so
I’ve pushed the bike ever since.
*,* * *
“Old Bushman”: In the arid interior
the best avian water-indicators are the old
bronzewings. The flight of successive
birds in a given direction about sunset
is the most reliable sign of water I know,
though a distance of 30 miles and back
to feeding-ground for a drink is nothing
to these strong-winged birds. At Dajarra
tank on Arumpo, out from Pooncarie
(N.S.W.), I watched numbers arrive be-
tween sunset and dark. After alighting
there was no mad rush, however, for the
water ; instead, they quietly waited for
the arrival of the rest of the flock before
marching down en masse to quench, their
thirst. Incidentally, these beautiful birds
were the first of our land-bird dwellers
to be seen by Europeans. When the
Dutch ship Batavia was wrecked on the
Abrolhos Islands, off the coast of Gerald-
ton (W.A.) in 1629, Captain Pelsart de-
scribed this glossy chestnut pigeon as the
only feathered land-inhabitant there.
* * * *
“Blime”: Hard to say what makes an
animal take an active dislike to a parti-
cular person sometimes, and not even Bill
himself could work out why one of the
nags had it in for him. It was tractable
enough with anyone else, but as soon as
Bill arrived in the yard the moke would
rush at him with open mouth. Knew
an old milker, too, that was tame as a
Sunday-school until the appear-
ance of a three-year-old kid turned her
into a snorting fury. As the child had
never been very close, it was probably
the size of the youngster that frightened
or intrigued her. A domestic goat, a
family pet, was quiet and friendly with
all but one particular youngster, and what
annoyed the animal not even the kid
could guess. “Don’t let it see you are
frightened,” was the well-meant but
entirely misguided advice that brought
the youngster many a pasting. Big bruises
that were slathered on without discrimina-
tion or respect. And cripes, could that
flamin’ goat hurt!
* * * *
“Ossie”: The Barretts of Herberton
(Q.) were a typical batch of hard-living
miners. Where they got their Christian
names is anyone’s guess. Sam was direct
enough and even Maurice raised no com-
ment. But Hubert, Nathaniel and
Othello just didn’t seem to fit into the
local scene. The five of them were work-
ing a tin show, and one day Nat collected
a letter from the Mines Department. He
turned it over several times, eyeing the
O.H.M.S. pugnaciously. “Othello, Huby,
Maurice, Sam,” he translated. “What
about poor blanky Nat —ain’t he in this
show, too?”
* * * *
“Simon”: The horse’s scared memory
of some early happening (B. 3/ 8 A’49)
can certainly go on and on. My father
owned a mettlesome filly good in saddle
and harness. Soon after breaking-in he
was yarding with her when a young colt
attempting to clear a wire-fence became
completely tangled in it. The racket it
made trying to kick itself free drove the
mai;e almost mad. Even when she was
well over 20 she would instantly make
for the horizon, buggy and all, if she saw
anyone attempt to get through a wire-
fence. In every other way she was ideal
in her tractability.
* * ♦ ♦
“Chuck”: Don’t agree entirely with
those ideas on night-killing (B. 27/7/’49).
So long as there is enough moonlight for
a mong to see where he is going he has
no objection to doing a bit of overtime.
Even the team I have at present —and,
Heaven knows, they’re a poor enough lot
—have accounted for several foxes after
hours. Supposedly sheep-workers, but
not good enough at the game to spoil, I
have allowed them to collect a few rabbits
or pick up a fox on occasion, and now
Johnny’s wily challenge round the place
at night is enough to start them all an-
swering eagerly and straining at their
chains. One old greyhound became quite
renowned in these parts for his night-
killing. He caught dozens of the pests,
and he always worked alone. With a
team, provided it doesn’t contain a silly
excitable member that yaps false alarms,
it is a much easier job to locate and
keep track of Johnny. Naturally, dogs
don’t collect so many foxes at night-time,
but the reason is obvious; and as a
general rule lack of courage has little to
do with it. Agree that Johnny undoubtedly
takes advantage of the night hours, know-
ing his pursuers will be handicapped,
but then, don’t most animals?
* * * *
“Kelms”: It had to come, and it came
at an opportune moment. When
“G’roper” wrote (B. 22/6/’49) criticising
my prediction of a wet winter, it was fine
—too fine —and “G’roper” fell into the
common error of imagining that clouds
cannot appear in a clear sky. As I write
it’s raining cats and dogs, so “GToper”
is probably contemplating a deluge.
Meanwhile the cockles are happy, seed-
ing, although late, is going with a swing,
and the season could still be a wet one.
I’m not saying that it will be. My pre-
vious prediction was based on “Uncle
Alfy’s” assertion (B. 13/4/’49) that
the gums blossomed profusely this year.
Did they? I missed the sight myself.
Work and illness combined to limit my
view to fire-browned slopes on which my
neighbors and I had fought the worst
bushfires the district had known. Since
then I’ve sought, in vain, for confirmation
of “Uncle Alfy’s” claim that the bloom-
ing was heavy. It may have appeared to
be. In any season the gums are beautiful.
In a heavy season the sight is one to be
remembered. And “Uncle Alfy,” unless
he is an experienced observer, could
easily have been misled. I’m neither
apologising nor crawfishing. One dry
month doesn’t condemn a whole year,
and before my prediction is discredited
I want to know about that blossom.
Can anyone remember? Make it dinkum,
because a theory and a reputation are
at stake.
HOME-YEARNING.
I cannot settle to this world
For the next world plagues me so;
How may I wait in this world
When in the next, 1 know,
Far spires and fairy towers
Drowse deep through sunshot hours
In field on field of flowers
Where lazy lilies blow?
I have no eyes for this world;
Why must I chamber here
Where time burns down the taper
Beside a dying year,
While by no footfall shaken
Beauty, too long untaken,
Waits for a prince to waken,
And on her lids a tear?
I have no ears for this world:
Far other songs I find
Beyond all lust of knowing.
All strength of heart and mind,
And where the dewdrops christen
The bell-mouth cups that glisten
Lean low in love and listen
And leave this world behind.
Solid is but shadow,
Film-fantasies that fall
By tawdry lantern magic
In some cheap basement hall;
And perjury and praying.
The seeking and the slaying
Fade as the dawn is greying
Into the vacant wall.
So, on the ragged plaster
Beneath the arc-light’s cone
Might some rich scene be patterned
Where banquet tables groan
—Comes man, a beggar, shaking
The crowd to laughter, waking,
And in wild hunger breaking
His nails against the stone.
For all who store up substance,
Who covet this world’s clay,
Who put their trust in princes,
Let one poor poet pray;
The sun that gilds their treasure,
The flesh that frames their pleasure
Bring in remorseless measure
A little death each day.
Only the dream is living;
All else is dust beside.
When death on dreams comes flooding
So may I take the tide:
To vampire Beauty willing
This heart, for its fulfilling;
To Cffisar his bare shilling
—And Devil take my hide!
VICTORIA.
LINDSAY CARROLL.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
SACKS©*
OSUMJtYAN
rrojft
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd,
Incorporating:
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER*
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and. Cables
*IACKBUL,” BRISBANE
ILBEYS
Ssf
M
&
ft
S,
S
&
■ewevif
&eea4wn
frsaa j
u,
Uig
In your favourite shape
at' all good stores
Flawlessly crafted in
England of age old
bruyere and distin-
guished for its rich grain
and superb finish, the
“Sasieni” is truly perfec-
tion in pipecraft. In-
built, too, is the patented
“Sasieni” moisture trap,
which assures a mellow,
dry, satisfying smoke.
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
ranches in all States.
a coo
/ if nod
“Solitude”: For the last three days of
the trip it had rained. Flakes of snow
and a sprinkling of ice-chunks reinforced
the showers, and Seventyfiver’s ancient
oiler had let him down badly. Wet to
the hide, we arrived at Long Gully just
after dark to find the camp hut had blown
down, and after shivering through a long
night we ate the last of our tucker. “Bad
luck losin’ our flour yestiddy,” remarked
the old bloke. “Have to keep our eyes
skinned for a rabbit.” But the bunnies
weren’t, facing the elements that day, and
at noon we drank four or five mugs of
tea and tightened our belts. “Think if
we push ’em we can make the town to-
night?” I asked hopefully. The old
bloke ran an eye over the mob. “No.
Won’t stand it,” he answered, “Have to
spell ’em overnight on the swamp flats.”
Another wet camp, a tuckerless night,
and we hit town by mid-morning. “Better
shove ’em up the lane here,” decided
Seventyfiver, “while we go round to the
agent’s office.” The office was warm with
radiators and glittering with up-to-date
equipment, and Seventyfiver gazed round
wonderingly. “Five-hundred head from
the tops,” he reported. “Where they got
to go?” He stared with a touch of awe
as the agent ripped a letter from a type-
writer. “The up-station baldies?” he
queried. “Just a minute, and I’ll check
their paddock. Push over that desk
phone.” Seventyfiver eyed the thing
■warily and backed off, as the other
snapped words and phrases into the in-
strument before explaining the destina-
tion of the mob. We hit the street,
Seventyfiver slowly shaking his head. “A
bloke’s got a lot to be thankful for, Sol,”
he sighed, “Gripes, I wouldn’t have that
there pore cow’s job for any money.”
* * H= *
“Old-timer”: Shearers, shed-hands and
station-hands were gathered round the
fire one night when Big Fleming re-
marked, “Well, we ought t’ cut out be
next Fridee.” This caused the greasies
and shed-hands to burst into discussion
about their next shed, what time the
station-hands fell rather silent, contem-
plating the deflatus that would follow
“Look, Daa—see what Harry's brought us from the opencut!”
the cut-out, for the advent of the shear-
ing, with the new faces, new yarns and
general was quite an event in
the dull routine of their lives, and they
were oppressed with the knowledge that
it was nearly over. Presently all were
abed. Next morning there was rain. The
dry sheep were soon put through, and for
the next four days it rained on and off,
keeping the sheep wet. The boss found
odd jobs about the place to keep the
others out of mischief, but for the shearers
there was that idleness they resent and
the knowledge that, whereas those on
weekly wages weren’t losing, they were.
Three nights later in that hut the greasies
sat, morosely silent or were bitterly sar-
castic, while the others romped about.
On the fourth night Big Fleming picked
a little wool-presser, and it became a free-
for-all as the mob worked off grudges
against each other. Pocketknife (station-
hand) was first out next morning and
joyfully announced a fine day and drying
wind. And every permanent hand on the
place rushed outside to see it, with the
unanimous shout, “Now we can get the
ruddy jummies cleaned up an’ these
blasted shearers out o’ this for another
year.”
♦ * * ♦
“Ridleyian”: The accuracy or other-
wise of a negative answer to a Service
Department question, “Is the reaper-and-
binder an Australian invention?” —credit
for it was given to McCormick—has been
the subject of a good deal of discussion
in Adelaide. It largely depends on defi-
nition. In S.A. the words “stripper” and
“reaper” have been used interchangeably.
There is no doubt that John Ridley, of
Hindmarsh, S.A., invented the stripper—
variously called the reaper —first publicly
exhibited in 1843-44 in Adelaide, The
Agricultural and Horticultural Society
gave him a prize; he was thanked by the
Governor (Sir George Grey) and the
Legislature. There is complete contempo-
rary evidence of these facts. There is,
too, a Ridley Memorial (a gateway to
the Adelaide showground, opened by
Sir Alexander Hore-Ruthven - Lord
Gowrie —in 1933), and the tablet
refers to “The reaping machine in-
vented by John Ridley in 1843.”
However, it seems to be conceded by
those here who ought to know that the
“binder” was not invented by Ridley. I
am told by one of a recollection that,
many years ago, some Americans came
out to look at Ridley’s machine. This
may, or may not, be the case. Summing
up, it seems that the reaper is an Aus-
tralian invention, but the binder is not.
“G. Iris’*: By a droving feat which
cattlemen with long alpine experience
regard as one of the best on record, a
brother and sister have, in the Omeo
district, saved 150 Hereford cattle.
Norman and Dinah Pendergast, both in
their early twenties, moved the stock
from Mt. Leinster, 15 miles north-east
of Benambra, to grass at Ensay, 34 miles
south of Omeo, over country which has
had the worst snow falls for nearly 70
years, and where thousands of cattle and
sheep have died. The game youngsters
had to struggle through deep drifts, pre-
cipitous " slopes and hazardous tracks.
When they left home Mt. Leinster was
nearly 3ft. under snow ; it took them four
hours to travel three miles to the main
road. The snow was too deep for the
cattle to wade through, so Norman rode
ahead to make a trail. He then doubled
back on his own tracks, turned again,
and rode ahead. The cattle used this
narrow defile, Dinah bringing up the rear.
It took them four days to cover the 40
miles through the snow, and two more
days downhill before they reached Ensay.
They had to lead their horses much of
the way. Their parents learned of their
safe arrival through a Forests’ Commis-
sion walkie-talkie radio.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; There was a time when
I sympathised with Jephson in his
troubles; never again will I. If he had
robbed his kid’s money-box to buy beer,
or hocked the urchin’s boots to square
the s.p, bloke, I could have understood,
if not approved. But to contemplate
cutting up the kid’s cubby for fuel (B.
13/7/’49) —no; not even Sade would
have done that. The happiest memories
of my childhood pivot around cubbies.
What if you did get ti-tree itch or stung
by a jUmper-ant there was no bliss on
earth to compare with squatting in a
rickety bower getting ti-tree leaves down
your neck and in your hair., After we’d
had The Swiss Family Robinson at school
cubbies in trees became tne vogue. Mine
finished the same as the rest; and, like
the other builders, I, too,-escaped with a
few bruises. Wandering out Smithfield
(N.S.W.) recently, however, I saw evi-
dence that the modern kid is cleverer
than we were. Twenty feet up an iron-
bark sits the neatest cubby I’ve seen.
Built of old corrugated-iron and scrap
wood, it looks to be weatherproof, as
solid as Gibraltar and big enough to seat
three or four young adventurers. If
ever a local Jephson tries to retrieve the
fuel situation on that tree I hope it falls
on him and flattens him.
“Bagot”: At Perth zoological gardens
a Bengal tiger had a brief encounter with
an African lion. The animals, were
housed in adjoining cages separated by a
sliding steel door which Nero’s mate,
Bessie, managed to nuzzle open suffi-
ciently for Tim, the tiger, to pay a call
upon his neighbors. He was promptly
seized by Leo, and before the keepers
could intervene his throat was torn to
shreds. The fight lasted exactly three
minutes. The King of Beasts is certainly
no idly-conferred title.
THARGOMINDAH ROAD.
Rack-et-y crack, rack-et-y crack,
The wagonette complains;
We’re on the track, we’re on the track,
Comes from the jingling chains.
Spare horses all around us.
The dogs high on the load,
WeTe off again a-droving
On the Thargomindah Road.
Where desert sands from desert lands
Through netting fences creep
And in a drought both in and out
We lift a mob of sheep.
WeTe loading up each morning
The tucker, fly and swags;
The temperature’s a hundred
In the leaking waterbags.
A drover’s cook, a “babbling brook,”
I’ve been for many a day —
“A cranky coot, not worth a hoot,”
We hear the drovers say.
WeTe always short of water,
WeTe often short of wood —
The drover’s cook has reason
To be in a cranky mood.
We rig our fly both high and dry
Out on a blacksoil plain,
A thunderstorm begins to form,
Then sets in general rain;
Our fire is washed to glory,
WeTe slushing in the mud —
The brownie’s turned to pudding
And the damper is a dud.
Last trip I swore that nevermore
Would I a-droving go,
And scrub and plain in drought and rain
No longer I would know.
Farewell, ye Bulloo River
And dogs high on the load,
Np more I’d go a-droving
On the Thargomindah Road.
Rack-et-y crack, rack-et-y crack,
The wagonette complains;
We’re on the track, we’re on the track,
Comes from the jingling chains.
Spare horses all around us,
The —Spare-me-days! I’m Mowed!
We’re off again a-droving
On the Thargomindah Road.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN G. GUMING.


Connoisseurs "pre-
fer |?a fine brandy
after meals. The time
is coming when there’ll
be plenty of “St. Agnes”
fe>t_everyone.
B &AJVDy
by Angov.es Ltd.
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagli
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £60,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£9,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONIiT RATES
Single Rooms—
From 8/- per night
Doable Booms—
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROP OLE.
Sydney ,
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
HIM
m
i
Hit
m
*
mm
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Kandos Cement (N.S.W.)
Net To Re “ Re "
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
19t0 96/705 12* p.c.= 84,233 12,472 460,030
1941 ’ 98 636 12*,. „ 84.233 14,403 474,433
1942" 94 273 12* „ ~ 84,233 10,040 484,473
1943 " 66 350 7.8 „ „ 52.645 13,705 498,178
From doubtful debts reserve, £2500 .. 500,678
1944 66,186 7.8 p.c.= 52,645 13,541 514,219
1945 - ' 65 060 7.8 „ „ 52,645 12,405 526,624
1946!! 66*473 10 „ „ 67,386 525,711
1947.. 67,130 10 „ „ 67,386 525,455
From doubtful debts reserve, £lOOO .. 526,455
1948 67 474 10 p.c. = 67,886 88 526,543
1949!! 67,676 10 „ „ 67,386 290 526,833
This holding co. (paid capital £673,862)
and Australian Cement (paid capital
£760,433) are equal partners in Australian
Portland Cement Pty., the £2,000,000
operating concern in which they merged
their interests as far back as 1930. At
June 30 last Kandos’s only other assets
were £207,146 of Government securities
and cash and £11,083 of shares in other
cos.
Earnings therefore consist mainly
of divs. paid by the operating co., whose
figures are not broadcast. However, over
the last seven years it has sent along a
regular 6 p.c, as against 9 p.c. for the
five years before that. Kandos was thus
able to pay \2\ p.c. on its own capital
for the five years to 1942, followed by
7.8 p.c, for the next three years, and then
10 p.c. for the four years to the close of
last accounts. The 10 p.c, has called for
nearly every pound put on the table,
which suggests that the margin between
the operating co.’s earnings and distribu-
tions might be much more comfortable
than Kandos’s figures alone indicate.
The operating co. is the largest thing
of its kind in the Commonwealth,- Its
two plants have a combined capacity of
475.000 tons p.a. Fyansford (Vic.)
275.000 tons and Kandos (N.S.W.)
200.000 tons. To keep capacity a step or
two ahead of foreseeable demand, and so
retain the hold on the Victorian market,
new equipment is being installed at
Fyansford, lifting capacity there to
335.000 tons p.a. And as part of the
management’s incessant war against
costs, improvements and additions are
constantly being made to the operating
equipment in both States. At Kandos
war-time arrears of repairs and renewals
have been overtaken, a new turbo-
alternator has been installed to meet
extra demand for current from the Shire
and the works, and a new ropeway, cap-
able of doing 2\ times the work of the
old one, is now operating between the
limestone quarry and the cement kilns,
thus helping to partly offset the effects
of the 40-hour week upon output and
earnings. Coal is also drawn from the
co.’s own mine near by.
Altogether the Kandos and Fyansford
plants are well organised, highly-efficient
and moderately-capitalised production
units; and that is likely 'to mean much
in the years ahead, when competition gets
more of an edge on it. The Fyansford
plant is the only producer of importance
in Victoria, but there are five cos., with
an aggregate annual plant capacity of
670.000 tons, competing in the N. S.
Wales market, where current output is
little more than half-capacity. A new-
comer, Metropolitan Cement, spoke
ambitiously of entering the field before
1949 runs out with a 150,000-ton-p.a.
plant, and other assets, bought when
prices were at their peak. Kandos and
other well-established producers have
little to fear from Metropolitan,
Few industries at the moment enjoy a
more satisfactory outlook on the demand
side than cement. The heavy users of
the stuff —large-scale public works,
offices, flats, etc. —are not yet at the front
of the quene of consumers. But a large
programme of public works, to be put
into effect when unemployment threatens,
has been planned by both Federal and
State Governments. The earnings of pro-
ducers will be governed largely by what
happens in connection with costs, a stub-
born item which is still rising, and selling
prices, which are controlled.
Despite the effects of the coal strike
on production and sales, and the threat
of competition, the market expresses its
confidence in die future of the organisa-
tion by paying a high premium for scrip
in the two holding cos.:—
Face Net
Value Market Last Tan-
Shares. Price. Div. Yield, gibles.*
Aust. Cement 20/- 41/3 8 p.c. 3.9 p.c. 29/4
Kandos .. 16/- 39/3 10 „ 4.3 „ 35/7
* Per pound of paid capital.
A variation of 1 p.c. in the div. from the
operating co. represents 1.3 p.c. and 1.4
p.c. on the capital of Australian Cement
and Kandos respectively.
John McGrath, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. , Dividend x serves, serves.
& & & &
1940.. 22,648 10 p.c. = 22,500 48 87,691
Profit on sale of assets, £3120 .. 90,711
1941.. 15,786 7 p.c, = 15,750 36 90,747
1942.. 21,465 9* „ „ 21,375 90 90,837
From inner reserves, £ll,BBO .. .. 102,717
1943.. 20,270 9 p.c. = 20,250 20 102,737
1944.. 20,293 9 „ „ 20,250 43 102,780
1945.. 20,497 9 „ „ 20,250 247 103,027
1946.. 21,893 9 „ „ 20,250 1,143 104,170
John McGrath and Subsidiaries,
1947.. 25,245 9 p.c. = 23,027 2,218 217,250
Share premiums, £78,509 .. , . 295,759
1948.. 47,413 12 p.c. = 38,684 8,729 304,488
From depreciation reserve, etc., £44,161 848,649
From share premiums, £8991 . . 357,640
1949.. 98,917 15 p.c. - 61,665 37,252 394,892
John McGrath has been in the motor
trade, etc., in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land for the last 38 years, and, excepting
a sdcky patch in the early 1920’5, has
given a good account of itself. It has
never failed to pay a div, for the last, 27
years. For the seven years to June 30,
1929, distributions averaged 34,8 p.c., fol-
lowed by averages of 9,8 p.c. for each
of the two decades to the close of last
accounts.
Now a holding co., the parent owns
the shares, or all but a small fraction of
them, in five operating subsidiaries, to-
gether with some freeholds, and little else.
All units of the group expanded rapidly
after the war. To help finance the growth
£275,000 of fresh share capital, which
brought with it £126,875 of premium
money, has been added to the register
over the last 2\ years. That includes
87,500 new £1 ords. issued since the close
of accounts at a premium of 9s. each —
last previous issue was 100,000 ords. in
Feb., 1947, at a premium of 17s. 6d. each.
Last term aggregate net earnings more
than*doubled, reaching £98,917, or 24 p.c.
on average capital as against 14.7 p.c. and
10.4 p.c, for the two preceding years.
And a 5 p.c. bonus (2 p.c. in the previous
year) was added to the 10 p.c. div., mak-
ing 15 p.c. for the year.
Principal money-spinner today is the
motor-vehicle distributing offshoot, John
McGrath Pty., which holds the N. S.
Wales and Queensland franchises for
Hillman, Humber and Sunbeam-Talbot
cars and Commer and Karrier trucks, as
well as a franchise (Q’land only) for
Marshall trucks. Figures for individual
units in the group are not disclosed, but
the dollar problem dried up the flow of
American cars, etc., to the Australian
market, and sent sales of British makes
up with a rush. And there is a tidy rake-
off in servicing and sale of parts.
Australian Forge and Engineering Pty.
(paid capital £250,000 a year ago)
operated at a profit as against a small
loss for the previous year. It used to be
Commonwealth Steels and Forging Co.,
in which the parent had long been inter-
ested and which proved a handy pot-
boiler during the war years. It turns out
all kinds of ferrous and non-ferrous forg-
ings, including those for G.M.-H.’s new
all-Australian car, the Holden. Under
existing conditions—power-rationing has
reduced output by more than one-third,
and the need to work night shifts has
bumped up costs —this plant is unable to
operate at a profit.
The earnings of Perkins (Aust.) Pty,,
another offshoot, which distributes a
number of American, British and Aus-
tralian steel and engineering products, in-
cluding diesel engines, has been affected
by the dollar shortage. The two remain-
ing subsidiaries are Industrial Sales and
Service Pty., which distributes farm
tractors and earth-moving equipment, etc.,
in N. S. Wales, and Magnesium and
Aluminium Alloys Pty., which manu-
factures the kind of alloys its name indi-
cates.
The expanding activities of the group
show up again in additions of £267,281
to stocks and work in progress, and of
£258,526 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc., which includes an over-
draft of £215,158 and £251,903 of inter-
co. adjusting balances:
Parent and Subsidiaries.
1947. 1948. 1949.
Capital .. .. ~ £300,000 £393,580 £412,500
Outside interests .. 42,835 55,084 65,867
Sundry creditors, etc... 159,550 634,721 793,247
Freeholds .. .. 200,952 259,705 387,745
Plant .. ... .. 83,575 171,520 201,138
Stocks, etc 301,431 611,386 878,667
Debtors .. .. 139,947 258,204 244,784
Shares 5,000 5,500 5,500
Cash .. ... .'. 5,007 7,248 10,691
The growth of £128,040 in freeholds (now
in at cost) is due partly to transfer of
provision for depreciation to general re-
serves and partly to additions to the
Sydney service-station and final payments
on three Sydney showroom properties.
There was little change in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£347,295),
The subsidiaries’ own auxiliary power
plants have softened the blow from the
coal strike, the position of the forge co.
should improve as more power becomes
available, and, with the worsening of the
dollar position, another good year is in
prospect for the motor-vehicle section.
So, although delay in delivery can be ex-
pected to result in some reduction of
orders in hand, prospects of the group
earning enough to cover a 15 p.c. distri-
bution during the current term are
encouraging. The market therefore
prices the scrip at 495. 6d., giving a
return of 6 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover is 375. 4d. a share.
Mick Simmons, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Be- Re-
April, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.*
1940.. 9,255 5 p.c. = 8,281 974 26,092
1941.. 11,567 6 „ „ 9,937 1,630 27,722
1942.. 11,087 6 „ „ 9,937 1,150 28,872
1943.. 10,716 5 „ „ 8,281 2,435 31,307
1944.. 9,983 5 „ „ 8,2815, 1,702 33.009
1945.. 14,585 7 „ „ 11,593 2,992 36,001
1946.. 21,296 9 „ „ 14,907 6,389 42,390
Profit, sale of property, £10,397 .. 62,787
1947.. 23,968 10 p.c. = 16,663 7,405 60,192
From tax reserve, £20,000 .. 80,192
1948.. 25,756 11 p.c. = 18,219 7,537 87,729
1949.. 25,169 11 „ „ 18,219 6,950 94,679
•After deducting goodwill, £22,110.
Not since the palmy 1920’s has the
management been able to present share-
holders with better figures than during
the last two years. Now that there are
signs of the post-war boom and the ex-
panding turnover to which it gave rise
having passed their peak, shareholders
are beginning to speculate as to how long
the 11 p.c. distribution —best since the co.
was formed nearly 40 years ago—is likely
to be maintained; 3 p.c. of it is labelled
bonus.
Specialising in a wide range of sport-
ing goods, the co. also does a large turn?
over in tobacco, radios, haircuts and a
variety of oddments from a chain of city
shops, and has strong connections among
suburban retailers and sporting bodies.
Greatest danger to profits lies in the
possibility of declining consumption
working in uncomfortable alliance with
rising wage and other costs —it is a
danger common throughout the whole of
the distributive trades. There is noth-
ing at present to suggest abrupt recession
of turnover, though the Communist-
inspired coal strike, which has now col-
lapsed, slowed down the tempo of tak-
ings during its seven weeks’ duration, and
trade in many lines promises to become
increasingly competitive, with a shading
of gross margins. Last year’s rate of
earning, however, was nearly 4 p.c. in
excess of the distribution, and, subject to
unforeseen industrial and other develop-
ments, die co.’s prospects of netting
sufficient to cover 11 p.c. for the current
term are encouraging.
For the first time since the war turn-
over headed in the wrong direction last
term owing to further rationing of Aus-
tralian-made tobacco and cigarettes—
imports, mainly from Britain, partly
filled the gap. Still, gross earnings
(£250,016) were £2244 better, thanks to
increased sales of more profitable lines.
Exes. (£224,847) gobbled the gain and
£587 besides, despite the close watch of
an alert management. The £25,169 of
profit was 15.1 p.c. on capital as against
15.5, 14.4, 12.8 and 8.8 p.c. back to 1945.
Over the last decade divs. have averaged
7.5 p.c., compared with an average of
4.1 p.c. for the 10 difficult preceding
years, which included slump, aggressive
competition and price-cutting.
The co. is now in a better position,
financially and otherwise, than ever be-
fore to earn satisfactory profits:
1938. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £166,008 £166,000 £166,000 £166,000
Mortgages .. 130,207 83,833 83,383 83,333
Other liabilities 102,981 130,411 94,659 55,590
Tax reserve .. 9,053 63,370 81,186 53,686
Freeholds .. 212,915 164,046 164,045 164,045
Plant, etc. .. 19,288 5,727 5,490 7,368
Stocks.. .. 102,433 84,760 94,074 89,699
Book debts .. 105,517 67,318 66,352 78,221
Cash, etc. .. 543 191,396 144,542 125,552
Despite wide differences in prices, stocks
are substantially below their pre-war
level, the co. is trading with less out-
side money, and the comfortable holding
of cash, etc., means that prompt advan-
tage can be taken of any buying oppor-
tunity that offers. Over the last 12
months the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£100,863) improved by £5073.
Doubtful of what the less immediate
future holds for the business, the market
prices the f.p. pound shares at 335. (375.
early this year), giving a return of 6.7
p.c. on an 11 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible
cover is 31s. sd,
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op.
To Re-
June, Profit.* Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 32,482 6 p.c. = 19,552 1 R 0 6a9
Staff fund, £2500 .. •• ] 10,430 80,699
1941.. 26,881 5 p.c. = 18,486 ) oa rqa
Staff fund, £2500 .. .. V 5,895 86,594
1942.. 24,601. 5 p.c. = 18,665 )
Staff fund, £2500 .. 3,436 90,030
1943.. 31,240 5 p.c. = 18,770 1 Q7n Ino nnn
Staff fund, £2500 ~ 9,970 100,000
1944.. 29,997 5 p.c. = 18,887 ) aftln „, n
Staff fund, £2500 .. .. J 8,610 108,610
1945.. 21,011 5 p.c. = 18,821 ) ma
Staff fund, £2190 .. “ 108,610
1946.. 20,020 5 p.c. = 18,827 1,193 109,803
1947.. 20,047 5 „ „ 18,703 1,344 111,147
1948.. 24,090 6 „ „ 22,670 1,420 112,567
1949.. 30,900 6 „ „ 22,728 8,172 120,739
* After deducting rebates to consignors.
Fed by 11 branches, this co. handles more
wool and livestock in the northern State
than any other broker operating there;
and its shareholders, who are mostly
clients, have fared much better than the
figures in the table suggest. The co.’s
articles put a 7 p.c, ceiling on divs. until
20 p.c. of commissions is rebated. Of
recent years rebates on handling and sell-
ing charges paid to consignors have been
40 p.c. wool, 30 p.c, fat stock and 20 p.c.
store stock. The total amount Handed out
on this account last term was £61,781
(up £8813), equal to 16.2 p.c. on capital,
which gives the profit and the 6 p.c. div.
a different complexion.
Including rebates, the year’s net earn-
ings were £92,681 (up £15,623), or 24.3
p.c. on capital as against 20.2 p.c. for
the previous term. It was the very high
prices which wool and livestock fetched
that put the spring in the figures. There
was an increase of 1.9 p.c. in the quantity
of wool received, but 13.9 p.c. fewer
cattle and 9.8 p.c. fewer sheep and lambs
were put under the hammer;
Wool
Year Received, Sheep and
June, Bales. Cattle.t Lambs.f Turnover.
1934.. 82,556 40,567 91,170 £2,841.731
1940.. 152,270 28,249 84,392 3,269,662
1944.. 161,882 152,406* 977,047* 5,314,034
T 945. . 130,611 110,808* 777,144* 4,792,126
1946.. 140,617 101,520* 1,089,781* 4,980,221
1947.. 117,451 131,561* 794,755* 6,867,738
1948.. 118,625 191,057* 1,090,441* 9,484,117
1949.. 120,867 164,541* 982,961* 13,746,343
f Brisbane sales only to 1943. * Total sales.
The wool averaged a record 52.55 d. a
pound (greasy), or £6B 17s. 9d. a bale,
compared with 44.95 d, a pound and


XX ' VHA7 ' *>
7:h e
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent, administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
James Bums Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
. BP2-49
/
s'
JL
. x
/ - x ;sn;?v ,<
- I'?- .m- r
?
... .3*
X *
\v/
> t? i;
md: ■ :
?**:•:;. -i;
SB2»uioi»
CUSCOIV aioNOON
5»A*
BIACmiE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and Blended in Scotland
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt,
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO TBE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
■
mm
MEMORISE
WITH EASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Kitual.
Send stamp for booklet.
Her. W. Rowlands
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E. 8, Vic.
BALANCE SHEET OF
THE COMMERCIAL BANK
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
AS AT CLOSE OF BUSINESS ON 30th JUNE, 1949
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-300,000 Preference Shares of £lO each .. £3,000,000 0 0
4.000. Ordinary Shares of 10s. each ~ 2,000,000 0 0
£5,000,000 0 0
Issued Capital—
-211,735 Preference Shares fully paid in
cash to £lO per share .. ... £2,117,350 0 0
4.000. Ordinary Shares fully paid in
cash to 10s. per share .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Paid-up Capital . £4,117,350 0 0
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the
Bank) .. .. .. 2,000,000 0 0
Exchange Adjustment Reserve (used in
the business of the Bank) .. .. 250,000 0 0
Pinal Dividend proposed payable August,
1949 142,347 0 0
Balance of Profit and Loss A/c .. .. 125,842 4 5
Total Shareholders’ Funds .. .. .. .. .. £6,635,539 4 5
Deposits, Bills Payable and Other Liabilities, including
provisions for Taxation and Contingencies .. .. 109,362,278 6 4
Notes in Circulation .. .. .. .. .. .. 5,103 0 0
Balances due to Other Banks .. .. 3,094,102 14 1
£119,097,023 4 10
Contingent Liabilities (as per contra in regard to obliga-
tions of Customers and others on Letters of Credit,
Drafts, Guarantees, etc.) .. £6,282,603 19 5
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Australian and Reserve Bank of New
Zealand Notes and Cash at Bankers
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and due from Other Banks
Treasury Bills—
Australian Government
Public Securities (at or under market value) —
Australian Government £1,639,567 4 2
Other Government 2,501,172 2 10
Local and Semi-Governmental Authori-
ties 241,540 7 1
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit
Stamps
£14,109,152 4 2
2,707,351 18 3
92,288 11 6
2,500,000 0 0
4,382,279 14 1
35,448,000 0 0
6,178,066 8 4
30,592 3 9
. £65,447,731 0 1
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting
provision for Debts considered Bad or Doubtful) .. 52,020,006 8 9
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost less
amounts written off) 1,629,285 16 0
£119,097,023 4 10
Contingent Assets (comprising Liabilities of Customers
and others on Letters of Credit, Drafts, Guarantees,
etc., as per contra) £6,282,603 19 5
(The Balance Sheet figures are stated in Australian currency.)
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT IN RESPECT OF THE TEAR ENDED
30th JUNE, 1949,
To Expenses—Head Office, 577 Branches and Agencies
(including Directors’ Pees, £3,087 10s.) .. .. £1,992,303 10 0
„ Income, Land and Other Taxes .. 373,963 13 8
„ Balance, being Net Profit for the Year carried down 320,635 13 11
£2,686,902 17 7
By Discount and Interest earned, net Exchange, Com-
missions and Other Income after deducting Interest
Paid and Accrued on Deposits, Rebate on Bills
Current at balance date and Appropriations to the
credit of Contingencies Accounts (out of which
Accounts provision for all Bad and Doubtful Debts
has been made)
£2,686,902 17 7
£2,686,902 17 7
To Amounts written off Bank Premises
„ Dividends—
Interim paid February, 1949
Final, proposed payable August, 1949
£142,347 0 0
142,347 0 0
Balance carried forward
By Net Balance brought forward
„ Net Profit for the Year
By Balance
I, EDWARD COOK, Assistant General Manager of The Commercial
Bank of Australia Limited, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the
Reserve, the Exchange Adjustment Reserve, and accumulated profits are
used in the business, and that the accompanying Balance Sheet and
Statement of Profit and Loss of the Bank are, to the best of my knowledge
and belief, true in every particular.
Names, addresses, and occupations of the persons who are the
Directors of the Company at the date of the Statement: JOHN LANGLEY
WEBB, Shipowner, Melbourne; WILLIAM HOWELL SWANTON, Mer-
chant, Melbourne; WILLIAM JAMES BYRNE, Solicitor, Melbourne;
WILLIAM SYDNEY REID, Merchant, Melbourne} VICTOR YULE
KIMPTON, Flour Miller, Melbourne.
And I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same
to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of an Act of the Parliament of
Victoria rendering persons making a false declaration punishable for
wilful and corrupt perjury.
DECLARED at Melbourne, in the State of Victoria, this 28th day of July,
One thousand nine hundred and forty-nine.
Before me— EDWARD COOK.
H. F. CLARKE,
A Commissioner for taking Declarations and
Affidavits under the “Evidence Act 1928.”
We, WILLIAM HOWELL SWANTON, WILLIAM JAMES BYRNE
and VICTOR YULE KIMPTON of Melbourne, being Directors of The
Commercial Bank of Australia Limited, do hereby certify that in our
opinion the foregoing Balance Sheet is true and correct, and is drawn up
so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company's
affairs, and that the Statement of Profit and Loss exhibits a true and
correct view of the results of the business of the Company for the year.
On behalf of the Board,
W. H. SWANTON.
W. J. BYRNE.
V. Y. KIMPTON.
Dated at Melbourne this 28th day of July, 1949.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS.
Melbourne, 28th July, 1949.
i the Shareholders of
THE COMMERCIAL BANK OP AUSTRALIA LIMITED,
idles and Gentlemen,
We report that we have audited the accounts of your Bank for the
ar ended 30th June, 1949, and that in our opinion the Balance Sheet is
onerly drawn up, and exhibits a true and correct view of the state ox
* Company’s affairs and that the Statement of Profit and Loss is properly
awn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the results of the
isiness of the Company for the year, according to the best of our
formation and the explanations given to us and as shown by the books
Office Return to the 30th June, 1949, duly audited by
»ssrs. Jackson, Pixley & Co., has been submitted to us, the Assets and
abilities at the Branches being taken on the Certificates of the
ID We Rave 1 every assistance from the Officers of the Bank, and
ey have supplied us with all the information and explanations we have
quired.
We are, Ladies and Gentlemen,
Yours faithfully,
B. FOOKBS.
WM. S. PHILIP. . . „ ,
Chartered Accountants (Australia).
£59 15s. a bale for the previous
term. Cash turnover of the
business, which increased by
£4,262,226, was also a record,
being 379 p.c. of the 1939 figure.
The produce and merchandising
departments also contributed
their quota to the increase in
turnover.
As for the current term, the
seasonal outlook over most of
the State, including the usually-
parched far-west, is as bright
as it has ever been. Costs are
still rising, and are likely to
prove troublesome later on. The
intriguing question at the
moment is what is likely to hap-
pen to raw-wool prices. Over
the last 12 months or so world
demand for the staple, especially
for the finer clothing types, has
been running about 25 p.c. ahead
of production. This situation is
expected to change during the
current season, and some decline
in wool prices is anticipated.
Recent heavy buying has been
connected with the active export
trade in woollen products from
Britain and Western Europe. At
present price levels this trade is
distinctly vulnerable, and, in
some cases, domestic require-
ments are expected to decline.
The high price of wool has
already resulted in consumer re-
sistance in the U.S. textile trade.
Once a lower level of prices be-
comes established, the trade
everywhere will be in a healthier
position. However, neither
official stocks, which are in
strong hands, nor trade stocks
are large, and the appearance
of Russia and reappearance of
Japan in the market promise to
be helpful so far as clearances
are concerned. They are all
factors which suggest that any
early decline in wool prices is
not likely to be catastrophic.
Last year’s higher prices are
further reflected in the co.’s
balance-sheet figures:
1946. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital £378,210 £379,854 £380,645
Liabilities* 613,978 1,056,873 1,320,846
Staff funds 33,155 , 36,942 39,773
Freeholds and
leaseholds 268,816 268,119 280,982
Plant, etc. 18,649 24,184 29,100
Stocks .. 13,584 63,553 47,641
Advances .. 566,724 506,608 694,437
Cash, pre-
payments,
etc. .. 286,210 746,441 932,570
Liabilities (up £262,973) include
£914,755 (up £271,566) held in
trust for clients. Hence the
large holding of cash, etc. (up
£186,129). Owing to a net addi-
tion of £17,779 to fixed assets,
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£214,029) was £8758 less than
at the previous balance.
After seven years’ drought the
ords. in Mt. Morgan (Q.) are
back in the picture with an in-
terim div. of 6d, a share (20 p.c.),
payable Sept. 30 next. And the
price of the scrip has advanced
from 7s. 9d. to 9s. sd. in the
market over the last couple of
months. Accounts for the year
to June 30 last are not yet avail-
able, but a better ratio of ore
to overburden, and consequent
improved output of gold and
copper, should give earnings a
nice lift. Here are treatment and
recovery figures;
r-'Recovery
Year. Material Ore Cop-
June Mined, Treated, Gold, per,
30, Tons. Tons. Oz. Tons.
1948.. 2,192,520 572,320 43,629 2752
1949* 2,190,857 781,795 58,663 3523
* Approximate.
Earnings aren’t likely to get
properly into their stride until
the dyke on No. 6 bench, around
which the co. is now working,
has been passed, when higher-
grade ore should be met with.
-M * * *
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie,
which transferred headquarters
from London to Melbourne at
beginning of 1949, reports an
operating profit of £65,943 (sub-
ject to audit) for year to March
31 last, and will pay a 10
p.c. div. (£61,475), without de-
duction of U.K. tax, to those on
the register at Aug. 25. For
each of the two preceding years
5 p.c. was paid, subject to U.K.
tax of 9s. in the £. About 30
p.c. of the co.’s £614,750 of capi-
tal is owned by Gold Explora-
tion and Finance. Above figures
are all in sterling. In Australia
10s. 6d. was recently offered for
the lOs.-paid shares as against
Bs. 6d. a few months ago.
* * * *
Meekatharra Sands Treat-
ment (W.A.), whose financial
and estimates went all
awry, is still in deep water, but
hopes for the best. It has asked
the State Government for a
£12,000 loan that it might have
another try, using different
methods. Failing that, there is
talk about letting the plant and
dumps on tribute at a royalty of
9d. a ton. If that doesn’t come
off the bank’s permission to sell
enough plant to pay off trade
creditor? and part of the over-
draft is to be sought. Beyond
all three proposals the under-
taker waits.


"7ke Wme-WUe
m
mm
mm
*r.
.
<^: : :S:fx;^;X : <x¥>:':::V:::;v^
toup&Ais. -m
Cigarette Lighter Service
We stock spare parts for every well-
known make of Cigarette Lighter.
Send your defective lighter to ns.
Eepairs returned post free to any
address in the Commonwealth.
BOLLS BAZOB CO, OF AUST.
PTY., LTD.,
81* Castlereagh St., Sydney. BW 8038.
f
Ime/f/kce.
~ HUB I
a,
55
&
,c 3
WEEK
AFTER WEEK
Week alter week,
on the same day, you
will see the same people
depositing money to their
Commonwealth Savings
Bank Accounts. It may be
pounds, or perhaps a few
shillings, but it is steadily
accumulating to provide for
their future comfort and
security. They realise how
wise it is to save regularly
now so that money will
buy more when production
can meet the demand.
Money left in the pocket or
in the home is always in
danger of being lost or
stolen. Money in the
Savings Bank is safe. It
earns interest for you. •It
is readily available when
you need it.
Experience the peace of
mind which comes from the
knowledge that you are
saving regularly with
an account in the
ty|4)N WEALTH
BANK
You can by arrange-
ment operate on your
Savings Account at
any of the 420
branches or 4,000
agencies throughout
the Commonwealth.
EVERY BANKING FACILITY
IS AVAILABLE AT ALL BRANCHES
C-SJL »-t2
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Sharemarket Stronger
Solid support for Bradford
Cotton, Broken Hill Prop, and
other issues depressed in recent
months because of “new-issue
indigestion” was the outstanding
feature of last week’s share-
market. Higher prices for lead
and copper in the U.S.A. helped’
to maintain the market for base-
metal shares; but Barrier mines
were still far below this year’s
peak.
Bradford Cotton old ords.
touched 465., a rise of 6s.
within the past month. The
higher price was within one or
two shillings of this year’s
highest, allowing for the new
issue. B.H.P. old shares sold to
445. 9d., up about 4s. on the
year’s low, but still, on a cum
rights basis, about 12s, below the
year’s highest price.
The recovery in the market
was overdue. The slump in
prices in the first half of the year
had been excessive, and repre-
sented a reaction from earlier
overspeculation, precipitated by
overseas price trends and a tem-
porary straining of the general
investment purse. As The Bul-
letin pointed out when the
slump began, share prices had
not risen in proportion to export
prices, and, though internal
costs were rising, the margin re-
maining on wool at least was
higher in early-1949 than when
share prices generally were
higher during mid-1948.
It is true that investment yields
from first-class Australian indus-
trial stocks even at today’s com-
paratively low market prices
are not high. B.H.P, at 445. 9d.
offers £3 15s. per cent, on an
8| p.c. div. basis. So it goes
with many more. But industry'
has been checkmated since the
war’s end by Socialism and in-
dustrial lawlessness. The pro-
prietary side of industry has
had to mark time, so far as
profit-earning is concerned, while
the Socialists fiddled and indus-
trial discipline went up in smoke.
But considerable factory expan-
sion has occurred, broadening
the base of earning-power, in-
volving heavy capital outlay.
Much post-war industrial
capital has been raised at a stiff
premium. Bradford Cotton
ords. carried a loading of 13s. a
share and B.H.P. 10s. Some
other premiums have been even
stiffer. Though these premiums
have meant disappointment to
investors at the time of the
issue, the, effect, as one ap-
proaches the sharemarket as a
buyer today, is to give the in-
vestments concerned a stronger
financial appearance. The pre-
miums charged might well • be
considered as a reserve against
present high cost of plant and
other equipment.
Depending very largely on the
outcome of the next Federal
election —the future of Australia
will be largely influenced by
whether we are to have a return
to reasonable profit incentives
and whether Communism is
effectively dealt with and the
secret ballot introduced to trade-
unionism—a wide industrial
prospect should open up before
Australia. Many investments
now available at prices well be-
low their post-war peak should
be attractive investments for
long-term holding, B.H.P. is in
this category. So is almost any
other key industry.
But one section of industry,
the importance of which should
have been emphasised to every-
one during the last year or so,
has been neglected as an invest-
ment. And for obvious reasons.
Coal shares have shown poor
returns for many years, largely
because of industrial strife, ris-
ing costs and the burden carried
in the shape of the Joint Coal
Board. But if all the expansion
to which Australia is expected
shortly to become heir is to be
carried out, there is a period of
great activity ahead of our col-
Heries. And if more efficiency,
more freedom of enterprise and
more incentive is allowed to the
colliery-owning companies, then
their scrip should, over the years,
become much more valuable.
And one of the best of the col-
liery bunch would be J. and A.
Brown-Abermain Seaham, priced
last week at 19s. 3d. per 20s.
share and paying 5 p.c., with an
interim of 6 p.c. in respect of
last year.
Dollars and! Sterling
“The sterling area is cur-
rently running a deficit with the
dollar area at the rate of £6OO
million sterling a year—or one-
and-a-half times the total of its
gold reserves,” said Britain’s
Chancellor Stafford Cripps on
“ Lovely! And how much do I get if he lives ?”
July 14. “No one will doubt
that that condition of affairs
must be altered. Cuts will be
necessary in the imports of all
the important dollar materials.
A direct increase in our dollar
earnings—and those of the rest
of the sterling area —is more
essential than ever.”
The Economic Information
Unit of the British Treasury
has elaborated on the dollar-
sterling crisis in the following
terms:
More of the world’s trade is con-
ducted in sterling than in any other
nation’s currency. A quarter of the
world’s population lives in countries
which use sterling to conduct their
everyday business with other coun-
tries. They are mostly Common-
wealth countries (not including
Canada), and they conduct their
trade with the help of a common
pool of gold and dollars banked in
London. These are the sterling-area
reserves. Another fifth of the world’s
population (making nearly a half
altogether) also conduct some of their
trade in sterling. The sterling-area
reserves preserve international con-
fidence in sterling as a medium of
exchange.
Since the war the sterlirig countries
have needed more from the dollar
countries than vice versa, and to help
cover the difference some of the re-
serves of the sterling group hgve been
used up. They would have been used
up more quickly had there not been
loans from Canada and the U.S.A. —
including the payments under E.R.P.
[Marshall Aid]. As it was, the re-
serves fell from £612 million at the
end of 1945 to £406 million at June,
1949. This fall must be stopped.
Otherwise the stability of sterling, and
therefore its future as an international
currency, would be in danger. It
would also be very difficult to arrange
for a regular flow of imports without
a reserve to even out receipts and
payments.
Purchases from the dollar countries
by sterling countries must therefore
be limited to earnings plus receipts
of E.R.P. aid. These receipts are
scheduled to decrease year by year
and come to an end in 1952 at the
latest.
The dollar deficit, which now
threatens the country’s supplies of
food and materials, is the excess of
dollar spending over dollar earning
not by the United Kingdom alone,
but by the whole sterling area. It is
the dollar deficit of the sterling area.
The table shows how large it has been
in each half-year since 1946:
, £ million.
1946 Ist half .. .. *.. 80
2nd 146
1947 Ist 469
2nd „ 555
1948 Ist I, 254
2nd ‘ 169
1949 Ist „ 239
The deficit reached its peak at the
alarming figure of £555 million in the
second half of 1947. Largely as a
result of the export drive in the
United Kingdom, the dollar earnings
of other sterling countries, the reduc-
tion 9f dollar expenditure, and the
diversion of import purchases to non-
dollar countries, this figure was
freely reduced in the first half of
1948, and still further in the second
half. At that time the deficit was
in fact running at about the same
rate as E.R.P. aid to this country.
The present serious position has
arisen because the deficit increased
sharply in the second quarter of this
year. It was in fact almost twice as
big as in the first quarter and was at
the highest rate since the second half
of 1947. The large part of the deficit
results from smaller dollar receipts;
some is due to an increase in the
outgoings both of the U.K. and other
countries.
The deficit in the first half of 1949
was £44 million larger than the fore-
cast of £195 million. Of this £44
million just over a quarter, £l2 mil-
lion, arose from a shortfall in U.K.
dollar-earning exports. The rest was
due to invisible items (a deficit some
£lB millions larger than expected)
and the dollar deficit of the rest of
the sterling area (£22 million larger
than forecast). Payments in gold and
dollars to non-do liar countries were
£8 million lower than the original
estimate, but were still a serious strain
on resources.
In July British exports were
down on both May and June
figures, and the adverse trade
balance (£40.7 million) was £13.3
million lighter only because im-
ports cost less than usual. The
adverse balance was still double
the average for the first quarter
of this year.
On top of this overseas-trade
squeeze, latest reports are that
Marshall Aid may be reduced.
This may represent a U.S.
attempt to force Britain into de-
valuation of sterling.
The Attlee Socialists are in a
very tight jam. They have plenty
to think about besides socialisa-
tion at the moment. British
costs must be brought down;
quality and quantity of exports
must be raised.
Maoriland’s Budget
August is New Zealand’s
Budget month, and this time it’s
a pre-election Budget; but there
haven’t been many signs that
Maorilanders expect the overdue
tax-cuts they’ve been waiting and
hoping for. Outsize depart-
mental costs and Labor-Social-
ist extravagance are the big
obstacles. Taxes and State
spending are hand-in-glove, and
it has been clear all along, since
Labor climbed into the Treasury
benches for the first time away
back at the end of 1935, that
there will be no economy at the
top until tax yields turn down-
ward, which might be any time
now but hasn’t happened yet.
Business heads regard the State
as the greedy, overfed “sleeping
partner” who takes the lion’s
share of rewards but none of the
risks.
The Dominion’s army of civil
servants has grown until today
there’s one civil servant for every
19 of the population, against
Britain’s one in 64, which
British taxpayers declare is too
high. If 10 p.c. (nearly 10,000)
men and women on N.Z. Gov-
ernment payrolls were given
marching orders, most of them
wouldn’t have much difficulty in
finding productive work in
understaffed and undermanned
industries, offices and hospitals,
and the cost of government
would come down with a bump.
Far too many Maorilanders are
in unproductive jobs, and while
this drift goes on the Dominion
must continue to be one of the
world’s most tax-ridden and
overgoverned countries.
Maorilanders pay an average
of Bs. in every pound to the
State, which means they work
for the Government two days
out of every five. Yet this doesn’t
satisfy grasping “Labor” finan-
ciers, who borrow heavily, too.
Taxes in the latest year (to


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1878
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W, RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
PLAN YOUR ESTATE
for your family’s
PROTECTION
In these days of changing values and high death
duties you will ensure better protection for your
dependents by:
1. Careful planning before your Will is drawn.
2. Providing for the careful management of
your Estate in the best interests of your
dependents, after your guiding hand is with-
drawn.
You are invited to
call and discuss your
Estate problems with
a senior officer of
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
The Company has wide
experience in the manage-
ment of Estates of many
different kinds and sizes.
Because its service is per-
petual it may be depended
upon to provide alert,
efficient management in
the best interests of your
dependents, when required.
If unable to call, write
for a copy of the booklet,
“Your Executor and
Trustee”, that describes
the services offered by the
Company, and its charges.
DIBECTOBS:
Hon. T. A. .7. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman) ;
V E. B. KNOX:
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.B.
D. B. LYSAGHT;
, SAMUEL HOBDEBN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. AEMYTAGB, Manager
\ •
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED €67,000,000
(The average Estate being less
than £10,000)
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETO.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
WHERE €ACaIatWA MOVE MERCHANDISE
MOVES
★
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDE! Myer Emporium
(S.A.) Ltd. ... 4
BRISBANE: McWhirters Ltd 6
MELBOURNE: Myer Emporium Ltd. ...12
„ Manton & Sons Ltd 4
SYDNEY: Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd 10
„ David Jones Ltd 6
„ Mark Foy’s Ltd 6
PERTH: Boans Ltd 6
voiiohoUii saws o.i.va noixoh mj
rMjp/pwj s,, °
This Otis escalator installation at Myer Emporium
Ltd., Melbourne, invites customers to visit depart-
ments on upper floors—to see more and to buy more.
Properly planned escalators induce shoppers to visit
all departments . . . promote a high density ratio of
customers to merchandising area . . . make for more
store traffic, more sales—and more profits.
Your local Otis office will be glad to give you the facts
and survey conditions in your store.
n
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
March 31) touched a peak of
£l29i million, more than five
times as high as in “Labor’s”
first year. Social security now
swallows up more than the yield
from all taxes then. The snow-
balling trend in M.L.’s “welfare
State” has continued at a giddy
pace in post-war years, with reck-
less disregard for taxpayers’ in-
terests. If today’s staggering
totals are set against figures in
1936, when “Labor” took over
the reins, average taxes of £69
16s. 3d. a head dwarf those of
£l6 ss. 7d. 14 years ago.
Carried away by the socialistic
idea that the Government can
make better use of the people’s
money than they can themselves,
Finance Minister Walter Nash
and company have thrown
caution to the winds. There’s a
good deal of financial jugglery
going on as money is taken from
Maorilanders with one hand to
be handed back to them as bene-
fits with the other, and in the
process there’s loss and waste to
maintain an army of civil ser-
vants to handle the funds.
After 10 years’ life the whole
scheme is badly in need of over-
haul to clear away the dead-
wood. M.L.’s costly medical
benefitSs haven’t won the admi-
ration of the world, but are a
warning to other States to beware
of the pitfalls of easy medicine-
drinking and encouragement of
the drug habit.
N.Z. taxes in Labor’s first
year, ’36, and from ’39 onwards
are;
Social
Security Total
Taxes Taxation Taxes
fmillion. £million. per head.
1936 .. Nil 25.5 £l6 5 7
1939 .. 5.5 37.8 £23 9 2
1940 .. 8.8 44.5 £27 5 2
1941 .. 10.1 61.4 £37 10 3
1942 .. 10.4 68.2 £4l 19 2
1943 .. 11.6 87.9 £53 12 4
1944 .. 12.8 101.1 £6l 10 5
1945 .. 13.7 108.7 £65 5 10
1946 .. 15.2 114.9 £65 5 10
1947 .. 22.4 113.1 £63 16 2
1948 .. 23.7 122.7 £67 9 2
1949 .. 28.4 129.5 £69 16 3
Social-security taxes are supple-
mented by transfers from the
Censolidated Fund—£ls million
in the latest year, to make £431
million.
Queensland Coal
“W’gabba”: Mackay (C.Q.),
with coal wealth at its back-
door, set out to beat the coalies’
federation and the Gommos
with coldblooded purpose. Led
by Ernest Evans, M.L.A.
for Mirani, at whose girdle
dangles the political scalp
of ex-deputy-Premier E. J.
Walsh, on behalf of the sugar-
milling interests ap .application
was made to the Mines Minister
for a permit to get out a trial
tonnage. The movement spread
to the City Council, with
Liberals lan Wood and Evans
leading a pilgrimage to Bee
Creek, just west of Nebo. Men
of action, with bulldozers they
shoved a road into a cliff-face
of 20ft. of black coal, and
within 24 hours the first trucks
were on their way to Mackay.
There were no “beg pardons”—
no niceties about mining titles
—and now it is said the Mines
Department is in a quandary
oyer numbers of coal leases
being pegged out.
But the English concern, Elec-
tric Supply Corporation, had ' a
prospecting licence over the area
and has spent thousands in the
last 18 months. English repre-
sentative T. J. Hirst was taken
in there by Queensland geologist
John Reid. The area was
gridded and two diamond-drills
sent in. They have certainly
proved big reserves of coal, and
it is natural that Mackay, in its
extremity, wants its cut. .
The talk of phony operations
by the English co. is premature,
for a big Queensland firm is
doing the co.’s drilling under
contract, and there is nothing
phom r ibout the cheques being
paid out for this work. There
are lots of curious visitors to
Blair Athol these days, and two
drilling turrets on the landscape
there are visual evidence of
British interest in the field.
Roma Oil
“Petro”; Roma Blocks Oil
Co., N.L., which holds a three-
eighths interest in the four
“associated companies” pros-
pecting in the Roma (Q.) dis-
trict, incurred a loss of £578 for
the year ended May 31. This
figure suggests that the cost of
operations to the four cos. was
only just above £l5OO, although
the directors state that a con-
sulting geologist and his field
assistants investigated the area
throughout the year.
The cost to the Australian
taxpayer, however, may have
been considerable, as the
R.A.A.F. has completed the
aerial mapping of the district,
and the Bureau of Mineral Re-
sources has already carried out
gravity and magnetic surveys.
In addition, according to the
co.’s spokesman over the
national radio, seismic equip-
ment costing £50,000 is now
being supplied by the Govern-
ment, and the “final stage” of
the survey, ‘preparatory to dril-
ling, is shortly to be undertaken
by the bureau. It is claimed
that this survey should indicate
whether there are oil deposits
under the area or not, but the
grounds on which this claim is
based are obscure.
At best, a seismic survey can
legitimately be expected to in-
dicate the depth of the granitic
bedrock at Roma, and, less
definitely, the thickness and ex-
tent of the sands, which may
possibly be oil-bearing. The
depth of the granite is already
known from drilling results to
be about 4000 ft., and the sand
bodies, some of which have
shown traces of oil or gas, have
besen proved by the same means
to be lenticular and unproduc-
tive, Over the last 20 years 42
wells have been drilled near
Roma. Of these only No. 1,
drilled in 1929-30, gave a mea-
surable quantity of oil. This
amounted to about 30 barrels of
paraffin - base petroleum pro-
duced from two sands struck at
just below 3500 ft. and 2ft. and
3ft. thick respectively. No. 4
well, drilled from November,
1940, to June, 1941, penetrated
94ft. of what were described as
“oil-sands” between the depths
of 3497 ft. and 3521 ft., but no
measurable quantity of oil was
produced. Some of the other
wells showed gas. These results
can scarcely be described as en
couraging, and it is difficult ti
understand why the Govern
ment should spend so mud
time and money and employ
such a multiplicity of geophysi
cal method and equipment on
the project.
At Rolleston, about 150 miles
to the north, the Shell Co., on its
own, is spending about £200,00C
a year in active preparation foi
a deep test. The distance that
this test is situated from Roma
may be significant, but the co.
is not likely to publish any state
ment until factual results, one
way or the other, have been
obtained.
The Production Problem
Maoriland is experiencing
rising economic blood-pressure
under pent-up inflation, with the
worst symptoms in business and
industry, where price controls
hold production back and high
costs create bottlenecks. N.Z.
Labor-Socialsts, wedded to regi-
mentation, are delaying plenty
and cheapness by excess of red-
tape.
Farmers, the biggest producer-
group, don’t like the outlook, and
are saying so. The powerful
Meat Producers Board, with
£25% million of pooled funds
stowed away 10 months ago,
and probably several million
more now, points to the danger
looming up, and warns that it
will be bad business if these re-
serves are used to bolster in-
flated production costs. The
funds are there to cushion falls
in overseas prices, and it might
not be long before they have to
be milked for this purpose.
When that time comes costs
should be eased to take part
of the shock, say hard-headed
M.L. meat men.
Dairymen have been peering
into the future, too. W. Mar-
shall, chairman of the Dairy
Products Marketing Commis-
sion, lately back from London,
said the price-peak was past and
the market was rapidly veering
towards buyers for all foodstuffs
except meat. It’s clear that
M.L. must henceforth rely on
tonnage, not price, to expand, or
even hold its own, on the export
front, but for more than a
decade its great dairying indus-
try has been suffering from rot
within. Between ’36 and ’46
17,000 dairyfarms were turned
over to grazing, seed-raising and
agriculture, while thousands of
young men drifted to the towns
and cities, lured by the 40-hour-
week and soaring wages.
It is a sorry chapter in M.L.’s
march of progress. Manufac-
turing plants have swallowed up
this manpower, under the
Socialists’ “full - employment”
policy, and are still looking for
more, but growth in urban out-
puts hasn’t been enough to com-
pensate for rural loss. Man-
hour performance has slumped
badly in factories, in building
and other trades, on the wharves
and elsewhere —except on the
farms, where “cockies,” their
wives and families have been
putting their backs into it dur-
ing the labor migration. M.L.’s
Government, now belatedly
waking up, wants to turn back
the tide, but short hours, easy
money and scarcity are so far
too much for it.


£
Vte
&
LLOYD'S OF LONDON
. . . the first 250 years
1805: THE BATTLE OF TRAFALGAR
The year Nelson established Britain’s sea
supremacy, Lloyd’s played a prominent
part in achieving permission to use
Admiralty coastal signal stations for the
teaming of merchant shipping yet
another progressive step in the establish-
ment of the world?s greatest insurance
organisation.
LUMLEY'S OF LLOYD'S OFFER A
FREE INSURANCE ADVISORY SERVICE
As insurance Brokers, Lumley’s are in the
position, not only to give you complete advice,
but also to call upon the specialised policies of
any number of underwriting organisations,
including Lloyd’s of London. Whatever your
insurance need, make sure your policy has the
best possible coverage and most reasonable
rates by consulting lumley’s free advisory
service —in all States of the Commonwealth.
EDWARD LEMLEY
& SONS PH. LTD.
263‘GEORGE ST., SYDNEY • 33 WATT ST.,NEWCASTLE
’Phone: 2131 ’Phone: B 1464
And all other States.
ĵ
F%J
GbumJmm Ok
SLEEP ON LAND BY NIGHT!
TRAVEL BY AIR IN THE DAY!
A NEW IDEA IN AIR
SERVICE AND COMFORT!
When you fly Canadian Pacific to
Canada—you have the extra com-
fort of sleeping on land each night
— at colourful Fiji and romantic
Honolulu — with hotel room and
meals at no extra cost to you!
Through transportation may be
purchased in Australian currency.
<
I
/
■n ,
s
THE AIR!
Full-length-reclining ‘Loungaire’
chairs. Courteous, efficient per-
sonnel. Superb service. Wonder-
ful meals, 4-engine pressurised
cabin liners. You fly relaxed—
arrive refreshed—when you fly
Canadian Pacific style.
For further details apply Canadian
Pacific Railway Company, or Union
Steam Ship Co. (General Agents'),
2i7 George Street, Sydney, and
59 William Street, Melbourne, or
any authorised Tourist Agency .
HOURS OF COMFORT IN
Gawa£mii?adsic
mm AIRSs LINES
“THE WINGS OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM”
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited—lncorporated in Canada
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
Unheeded U.N.O.
South Africa, lately refusing
to suffer any further interfer-
ence in its domestic affairs, is
by no means the only country
flouting U.N.O. directions.
A Geneva correspondent of
N. Y. “Times” has reported
that facts collected by the
U.N.O. Secretariat “show that
very few member-States comply
with United Nations recommen-
dations in the economic and
social fields.”
There have been in all 38
resolutions, or parts of resolu-
tions, requiring some kind of
action by the 59 member-Gov-
ernments. To 17 of those reso-
lutions more than half the mem-
ber - States have not even
bothered to reply. There are
only 15 resolutions on which
more than half the members
furnished information or took
any action.
Most member - nations, and
several non-members as well,
responded to the Appeal for
Children; to produce any other
example of general compliance
U.N.O. has to dig up the purely
formal and negative action of
agreement on the liquidation of
one form of health organisation
in order to set up another. As
the Secretariat reports;
“The United Nations recom-
mendation to member nations to
establish groups to propagate
the doctrines of human rights
developed in United Nations
discussions was followed by only
seven countries. Only 12 others
replied at all. Only nine coun-
tries reported action to imple-
ment the principle of equal pay
for equal work applied to
women. Thirty-four countries
did not reply on this matter,
while four simply ‘noted’ the
Secretary - General’s communi-
cations.”
Uncle Sam is given top marks
as leading complier, with “sqme
kind of compliance” on 36 out
j of the 38 resolutions or part-
! resolutions. Australia is a good
boy, too —29 compliances.
For what the record may be
worth, U.N.0., since it was-for-
j mally established with the open-
ing of the General Assembly in
| London on January 10, 1946,
has held some 11,000 meetings
of one sort and another; sent
out 10 missions, to Palestine, the
Balkans, Indonesia, Kashmir
and elsewhere; organised about
25 economic and social com-
missions and 13 specialised
agencies ; increased its staff from
I several hundred to almost 3000 ;
[ experienced 32 vetoes (30 by
Russia, two by France); set up
| information centres in 14 coun-
tries ; spent $97,125,627 up to
May 31, 1949, and produced
78,000 different documents,
totalling 842,000,000 impressions.
German Refugees.
On the very day that Lord
Pakenham (as reported in the
“Times”) told a London audi-
ence that “happily, the number
of refugees and displaced per-
sons living in Europe had
diminished,” a very different
picture was presented to the
World Council of Churches at
Chichester.
There the Evangelical Bishops
of Hanover and Bavaria, Dr.
Hans Lilje and Dr. Hans Meiser,
pleaded for immediate aid to re-
lieve “the 10,000,000 German
refugees crowded into Western
Germany.”
It had, they said, got beyond
being a problem for Christian
charity; it had become a
problem for international justice.
Evidently the failure of the
last Foreign Ministers’ confer-
ence speeded the flight from the
Russian zone, the “Times” re-
cently reporting that the present
rate of illegal crossings into the
British and American zones is
about 5000 a month.
Bishop Meiser said that be-
tween 70 and 90 per cent, of
the refugees were unemployed,
and that “immediate action is
necessary if an explosion is to
be avoided.” Such an explosion,
he added, might spread a chain
reaction all over Europe.
The Atom Row.
Precisely what request Britain
made to the U.S. in the atomic
field, leading to the recent
“secret” meetings in Washing-
ton and to the U.S.-Britain-
Canada conference to be held
there next month, has not been
officially stated. But discussion
has been exceptionally lively,
and from it a probably fairly
accurate picture can be drawn.
The timing of the British re-
quest is itself significant, since,
apart from its interest in
Canada’s uranium supplies,
Britain and its nationals own the
uranium sources in the Belgian
Congo from which the U.S. is
supplied under a secret treaty
which is about to lapse.
Of the more responsible U.S.
papers, N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
—Washington “Post.”
“Russia’s vetoes and its other obstructions having nullified
U.N.0., two related proposals are before U.S. Congress aiming
to set up a new Federal Union of Democracies as the only
means of securing world peace.”
BOTH GENTLEMEN: "SIR, YOU ARE SPEAKING
OF THE WOMAN I LOVE!”
ran a report on (for it) some-
what sensational lines. It stated
that some members of Congress
had been told the primary ques-
tion was whether the United
States would help Britain make
the bombs, or whether the
United States would refuse in-
formation and possibly see
Britain turn for co-operation to
neighbors on the Continent :
“It involves a basic decision
whether the United States wants
to remain a close ally of Britain
for defence purposes, or see her
wooed by France and other
Western Continental nations
into forming with them a ‘third
force’ between the United States
on the west and Soviet Russia
and her satellites on the east.”
As usual, N. Y. “Times” has
avoided even that degree of the
sensational, while giving a lot
of space to the issue. Among
its various correspondents and
leader-writers who have contri-
buted, it specially vouches for
one in particular, William L.
Laurence, as one “who knows
his way around in this field.”
Laurence ridicules reports
that what Britain had sought
was “sufficient information to
assure production of the bomb.”
That, he pointed out, ignores
the fact that “a number of
prominent British scientists,
headed by Nobel Laureate Sir
James Chadwick, were among
the inner-circle at Los Alamos
during the crucial period when
the atomic bomb was being de-
signed and produced at that
centre, and that they played an
important role in aiding in its
development.” There could,
therefore, be no question of
British scientists not having an
intimate knowledge of atomic
bombs as used over Japan and
Bikini.
The correspondent also names
Professor William G. Penny, of
London University, as “a key
member” of the scientific team
that assembled those bombs.
Further:
“Since the Bikini experiments
three new models have been
tested at Eniwetok. It is not
known whether the new models
are of radically new design or
improvements on the earlier
models. [lt was given out about
a week ago that the Eniwetok
“atomic weapons” were distinct
improvements.] It is safe to
assume, however, that with the
knowledge in their possession
the British scientists, among the
most brilliant anywhere, could
devise improvements of their
own.”
Adding that, from that point
of view, it could be of ad-
vantage to the U.S. to co-oper-
ate with such British scientists,
Laurence recalls that during
1940 and 1941 British scientists,
working at the time in close co-
operation with French scientists
and exiles from other European
countries, were considerably
ahead of the U.S. in atomic re-
search. In fact, it was not until
late in 1941, when, at the sug-
gestion of President Roosevelt,
the British made available to
the U.S. all the information they
had, that the U.S. at last arrived
at the momentous decision, on
the day before Pearl Harbor, to
go all out on the project. Later
the British sent many of their
top scientists to work on the
project, and during 1942-45
their scientists and America’s,
as well as some French and
Danish scientists, worked side
by side,
Roosevelt at that time wrote
to Churchill suggesting that
“any extended efforts on this
important matter might usefully
be co-ordinated or even jointly
conducted.” It would seem that
Churchill subsequently had rea-
son to doubt the American co-
operation, since he cabled
Roosevelt’s personal adviser,
Hopkins; “My whole under-
standing was that everything
was on the basis of fully sharing
the results as equal partners”
It is also a fact, as Laurence
points out, that the British
and Canadians —and the French,
too, for that matter —know how
to operate a plutonium-produc-
ing pile (furnace) as well as
how to purify plutonium. He
points, however, to one import*
ant particular —that, whereas in


»
7
&
In
%-\v tins of 20
X 3 /-
There are times which call for
something better than the merely
very good 9 and demand
ifte unquestionable best• Where
cigarettes are concerned the man
of taste is guided by the
words 44 Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street , London From
this famous address comes fine
tobacco perfection to satisfy all those
occasions when only the best will do•
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS
HIS MAJESTY THE KINO
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Benson w Hedges
' OLD BOND STREET , LONDON
j
m
i i
I lOtl I St
Blinded by your lights, the
oncoming motorist menaces
your own life as well as his. Have your lights checked reg-
ularly for proper alignment. Always dip your lights to ensure
that you and the approaching driver have a clear, unimpaired
view of the road.
f
DEATH IS SO PERMANENT. .
ISSUED BY THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL
scientific research and develop-
ment there had been full inter-
change of information, “in
matters of design, construction
and operation of large-scale
plants, information was ex-
changed only when it would
serve to hasten the completion
of weapons for use in the war,”
Thus, though the British would
have full information on the
war-time bomb and on the de-
sign and operation of small-
scale piles, “it is very likely that
they lack knowledge on the de-
sign, construction and opera-
tion of large-scale plants, such
as the gigantic plutonium-pro-
ducing piles at Hanford, Wash.,
and the mammoth gaseous
diffusion plants at Oak Ridge,
Tenn., where uranium 235 is
being concentrated.”
Also, “while it is certain that
the British have the knowledge
how to make the bomb, it is
equally certain that they do not
have the means for producing it
in any quantity. Their pile in
Harwell operates at 6000 kilo-
watts, whereas it takes a power
of 1,000,000 kilowatts to pro-
duce at the rate of one kilogram
per day. This means that it
would take them nearly six
months to produce one kilogram
of plutonium.
“According to the Smyth re-
port, it requires between ‘one
and 100’ kilograms for a bomb,
which shows that even on the
basis of the lowest figure it
would take the British pile at
least six months to produce the
material for just one bomb.
“Nor is it likely that the
British would plan to design
plants similar to Hanford or
Oak Ridge plants, which cost in
the vicinity of $500,000,000
each. Not only the factor of
the prohibitive cost, but also
strategic considerations would
make the building of such plants
out of the question for Britain,
since such plants would consti-
tute a highly vulnerable target
at the first outbreak of war. The
high cost of building and opera-
tion also makes such plants pro-
hibitive for Canada.”
After quoting reported official
Belgian Government figures of
almost incredibly large quanti-
ties of uranium ore delivered to
the U.S. from the Belgian
Congo, and referring to the
large amounts received also
from Canada, Laurence states
that if the given figures can be
believed, the U.S. must have on
hand material sufficient to make
“at least 2300 atomic bombs,
and very likely as many as 5000,
if we take the average between
the two extreme figures of the
Smyth report.”
The well-informed corres-
pondent concludes: “In view
of the above-stated facts and
figures, what the British would
be likely to be asking of us is
not for the secrets of the bomb,
which they already have, nor
for the details of designs for
producing their own fissionable
material, which they cannot
afford for economic as well as
strategic reasons, but, more
likely, for sufficient quantities
of the large stocks of fissionable
material we already have, from
which they could ‘roll their
own.’
“More likely still, they may
be suggesting that we place a
sufficient number of already-
assembled bombs at a base, or
bases, in Britain, to make them
feel more secure against attack.
If this is the case our top U.S.
policy-makers now considering
file knotty problem may work
out a compromise whereby we
would send a supply of the
latest-model bombs to England
in charge of an American mis-
sion composed of military and
civilian personnel, which would
retain American control over
the weapons.”
Lions and Shriners.
N. Y. “Times” is ■ authority
for the estimate that more than
one-third of all Americans be-
long to some “fraternal order,
woman’s club, veterans’ or-
ganisation or other society,”
Some of them are picturesque,
not to say fantastic.
The Lions (business and pro-
fessional men), with members in
25 other countries besides the
U.S., lately foregathered in New
York: “There were Lions
dressed in official purple, Lions
costumed as lions. Lions who
roared.” Since “every lodge
has a ‘tail-twister,’ ” Colonel Mc-
Cormick, of the Chicago “Tri-
bune,” would seem to have some
qualifications as their patron
saint.
In the Colonel’s city another
of the exotic outfits lately fore-
gathered—“The Ancient Arabic
Order, Nobles of the Mystic
Shrine for North America.”
Their main interest the excellent
one of helping crippled children,
all Shriners must be high-degree
Masons. They wear red fezzes
and speak in a peculiar lingo—
for instance, anyone who dies
is said to have “answered the
call of the black camel.”
In the Chicago outburst some
15,000 of them turned out
“wearing their fezzes and giv-
ing Chicago its noisiest conven-
tion in history, complete with
turbans, camels, calliopes and
‘Oriental’ bands.”
To complete the picture: “As
their new Imperial Potentate the
Shriners installed Harold Lloyd,
the movie comedian.”
Dragnet Digest.
Corns as Champs. —British trade-
union leader Edgar E. Fryer, address-
ing the Transport and General
Workers’ Union before it overwhelm-
ingly decided to ban Corns from
holding office anywhere in its exten-
sive organisation: “My challenge it
to those people who claim that tin
Communist trade-unionist is the
champion of the working class. Thai
I do not accept. He is necessarily a
Communist first and a trade-unionist
only in so far as it enables him to
carry out Communist-party policy.”
* * * *
Critic of U.S. Devaluers. —Quoted
by a London “Times” Washington
correspondent, an American news-
paper writer takes a poor view of
U.S. moves leading up to the current
“dollar crisis”: “Tlie U.S. Treasury
handled the devaluation issue by ex-
ternal and public pressure instead of
confidential negotiation with the
British Government, and without
consideration of measures to cushion
the shock of devaluation and without
proposals to make sterling reasonably
stable and at least partially convert-
ible when devalued. This was tanta-
mount to inviting buyers of British
goods to wait for lower prices and
promoting speculation throughout the
world against the British dollar re-
serves.”
* * * *
Radar, Plus. —When the Orient liner
Otranto headed this way some weeks
back it was 10 years almost to the
day since she had set out on her last
commercial voyage to Australia: on
that occasion she took back a con-
tingent of Australian troops. This
time, though fitted now with radar,
she crawled through a thick fog in
the Irish Sea, with siren going full
blast, in accordance with the Inter-
national Conference rule that “radar
is not to be treated during coastal
passage through busy waters as a sub-
stitute for the exercise of extreme
caution.” Actually, Otranto’s radar
showed all near-by ships even before
their sirens were heard.
* * * *
Conservative Aims. —Main points
outlined by Mr. Anthony Eden of
British Conservative aims and poli-
cies: “Certain immediate tasks will
confront us when we take over the
responsibilities of office. We must
call a halt to all further schemes of
nationalisation We must reduce
Government expenditure in an en-
deavor to reduce taxation. We must
provide incentives at every level. It
is only by such methods that we can
hope further to raise the national
output.”
* * * *
Mac Arthur Regime Ending ?—Com-
menting that the military phase of
the U.S. occupation of Japan ended
long ago, N. Y. “Times” military
writer Hanson W. Baldwin joins
something of a chorus in adding:
“Gen. Douglas MacArthur now is
coping with economic, political and
psychological problems of immense
magnitude. He is working in fields
in which he has no particular com-
petence and his usefulness in Japan—
great in the initial phase of the occu-
pation—has come to an end. A new
and bold policy and a civilian Gover-
nor to administer it are needed.”
Immigrants Coming. —Giving details
of ships being specially converted
for carrying British migrants to Aus-
tralia, London “Times” states that
about 42,000 of the British stock will
reach Australia during this year
(ending next December), with more
than 50,000 due next year, “apart
from those who make their own
arrangements as ordinary fare-paying
passengers.” Among the ships will
be the 22,000-ton Monarch of Ber-
muda, to be rechristened New Aus-
tralia. It should he ready about
March.


in
do
4*
IttllllllllllllllllJ
j
ĵ
GOOD FOR MORE
THAN A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEM S
Major-General A. C. Fewtrell, already
trailing a paragraph of initials after his
name, added last week another distinc-
tion —the first Australian to hold the
Baker Gold Medal, a triennial award of
the London Institution of Civil Engineers.
A two-war Digger (D.S.O. in the first),
he was Chief Engineer of Eastern Com-
mand, as well as of the N.S.W. Railways,
when the second war broke, and during
it was base commandant at Sydney’s
citadel, Victoria Barracks. Now con-
cerned with building the controversial
Circular Quay elevated railway, he earlier
spanned the Hawkesbury with its present
bridge, twin-brother to the first. It was
his paper on that work, read in London
in May, and recognition of the efficiency
with which he stood its towers on solid
bottom beneath an ocean of silt, that
brought him the Baker Medal.
New Director of Plans and Operations
at Navy Office, Commander Richard
Peek, 0.8. E., D.S.C., is a gunnery
specialist who had hardly completed his
long course, in England when Hitler gave
him the chance to put knowledge into
practipe, in battleship Revenge. After
helping run the gunnery school at
Flinders, where the Fleet’s gunners learn
their drill, he shipped in cruiser Hobart
as squadron-gunnery officer, a big job
for a lieutenant-commander—Peek was a
lieutenant. Two years later he moved
to the same post in the Australia. Per-
haps the stores-gunner knows how many
tons of ammo the cruiser got rid of be-
tween then and Lingayen ; it was Peek’s
job to see it wasn’t wasted. Award of
0.8. E. for the Leyte Gulf show, D.S.C.
for Lingayen, added to Australia’s tally
of Kamikazes, proves he discharged it
well enough. Those were savage days,
with the gunnery-jack pretty well the
king-pin, and, appropriately, when they
ended Peek was selected to lead the naval
contingent to the Victory celebrations in
London.
There must be a reader of this page
who is in touch with some relative of
John O’Halloran, Prothonotary of the
High Court in the early days of Federa-
tion. He is asked to help the Registrar
of Melbourne High Court in his search
for a photograph of that well-remem-
bered officer, to complete a set of
souvenir photos for the Court archives.
“Trinco” grounds a Flying Scotsman:
Chance, the architect of many careers, raised
Air-Marshal Lord Tedder, who is retiring at
the end of the year, up to his most important
post—2 i.c. under Eisenhower for the invasion
of Europe. It first operated in 1940, when a
Wellington carrying Air Vice-Marshal Boyd
to his new post of deputy-commander of the
R.A.F. in the Middle East crashed in Italy.
With passengers and crew imprisoned, the Air
Ministry had to fill Boyd’s place, quickly.
Tedder was the man. With the grave defeats
in Greece and Crete came the usual clean
sweep of commanders. Tedder found himself
elevated to command his Air Force in the
M.E., at a time when American planes were
arriving in quantity to let him show what he
could do. The third chance came in January,
1943, when, flying to England, a last-minute
change in travel-orders landed. him in Casa-
blanca. Roosevelt and Churchill were already
there, and also Eisenhower, with whom Tedder
had a long talk and discovered they shared
identical views on air-power, and on just about
everything else. As a result, Eisenhower in-
sisted on the lean, blue-eyed little Scot joining
his Mediterranean team; so Tedder became
Eisenhower’s Chief of Allied Air Forces during
the Tunisian, Sicilian and Italian campaigns.
After those historic operations, in which
Tedder’s bombers laid a carpet of destruction
before the advancing Allied infantry, the big
invasion job followed as a matter of course.
Now 59, Tedder has concentrated nearly half
his lifetime on the study and practice of war
in the air. Of the years between wars he
spent one studying naval tactics and another
two ground tactics —almost a prophetic prepara-
tion for his three-sphere invasion job. Turning-
over to Sir John Slessor, a younger man, will
allow Tedder to indulge his passion—sketching.
The R.A.F. will miss his incisive mastery of
tactics, and his men his informal amiability.
Britain’s Prime Minister Attlee having
committed the gaucherie the other day
of mimicking the Churchillian speech-
delivery at a Labor-party rally, thereby
“causing much amusement,” Anthony
Eden pulled him up with a round turn.
Commenting stingingly on the cheapness
of the “joke,”* Eden said: “That voice
has been the inspiration of millions in
our country’s darkest and finest hour —
and not our country alone.”
Mcßeath had no difficulty in locating
the suite at Menzies hotel of Polish
pianist Malcuzynski; the grand in the
bedroom was still smouldering when he
entered. Like his master, the 34-year-old
pupil of Paderewski isn’t given to smiling
—as he explained himself, and as was
demonstrated at his opening concert when
even the roof-raising ovation left him
apparently unmoved. But he’s a very
MALCUZYNSKI, pupil of Paderewski.
pleasant chap to meet, with an attractive
and vivacious French brunette wife, Col-
lette Gaveau, a pianist of mark in her
own right. After graduating from
Warsaw Conservatorium in 1936, Mal-
cuzynski played for Paderewski, who was
So impressed that he offered to become
his teacher. Just before the war he was
introduced to Paris, which went wild
about him, and acclaimed him as in the
great tradition of Rachmaninoff and
Paderewski. W. G. James, A.B.C. director
of music, booked ‘him for Australia when
he heard him play at Carnegie Hall in
1947. He will be playing to Australian
audiences until October.
Last week in Melbourne a union
official staged a demonstration outside
the home of Victorian Minister for
Transport Kent Hughes. Next day
Kent Hughes invited the demonstrator
to his office, in the presence of reporters
dissected the offender’s character, in the
process observing that “he wasn’t a
man’s bootlace,” and, when the other
refused to explain the “disgraceful scene”
before the Press, told him to get out.
The demonstrator |vent; which isn’t
surprising—his lacing came from a
major of the old Light Horse, credited
with M.C. and four “mentions,” an
Olympic Games representative and a
colonel of the Eighth Division who with-
stood all that Jap guards could throw
at him for three and a half years.
Commander Adrian Perry, new Amfri-
can naval attache in Australia, may have
been appointed with an eye to the new
air-mindedness of the Australian Fleet —
most of his war service, and he saw
plenty, was in U.S. Navy flying. Born
at the beginning of World War I, he went
from school to Navy, specialised in naval
aviation and subsequently flew Atlantic
convoy and anti-submarine patrols from
Iceland and Newfoundland, then com-
manded a squadron co-operating with
sub.-hunting destroyers and frigates of the
Royal Navy. When the Allies bit into
the under-belly of France, Perry was there
as air-officer in escort-carrier Tulagi;
in her he later directed the coming and
going of the ship’s fighters over Lingayen,
Iwo Jima and Okinawa. He extended his
air interest into the peace, commanding
a squadron of Mars 70-tonners flying
between ’Frisco and Manila. Observer
duties with the U.N. Commission in
Palestine last year returned him to the
firing-line—he was in Jerusalem when
Count Bernadotte was murdered, and
when observers were targets for both
Arabs and Jews. His first official duty
here was to gong Bisset of the Queen
Mary with the U.S. Legion of Merit, for
his war-time transport of U.S. troops.
N.S.W, 1949 Rhodes Scholar, sailing
for Oxford this week. Bob Robertson-
Cunninghame is a War II Digger who
interrupted his agricultural studies at
Sydney ’Varsity to join the 2/6th
Armored Regiment, with which he served
till 1944. An itch to fly switched him
to the R.A.A.F., where he was training
for air-crew when the whistle blew. He
moved back to the University (already
he’d collected the Belmore Scholarship
for chemistry and geology) and completed
his agricultural science course, in between
repping for the ’Varsity at football, gain-
ing a blue for rifle-shooting and cham-
pioning the rifle-club last year. A husky,
Well-liked cove of country stamp—his
family are well known in the New Eng-
land (N.S.W.) district —he is after his
B.Sc. or Doctorate of Philosophy at
Oxford, as well as a spot of study in the
soil-physics field.
From G. A. Ferguson, of Angus and
Robertson:
Among the early records of A. and R. is a
wages-book which states that Walter George
Cousins had been engaged as a messenger-boy
at 7s. 6d. per week. When he died last week—
at 63 —he was chairman of directors. Since
George Robertson passed on, in 1933, Cousins
had guided the firm’s publishing. He strove
through all the early struggle to bring Aus-
tralian books before Australian people. His
enthusiasm for Australian publishing in later
years was so great that he constantly said we
were merely scratching the surface so far, and
that great things would follow.
Perhaps the great event of his publishing life
was his association with lon Idriess. The
firm had published Madman’s Island in 1927.
The book had been accepted by Robertson
subject to alterations which G.R. later regretted.
It was a failure. In 1930 Idriess came into 89
Castlereagh-street with the MS. of Prospecting
for Gold, and shortly afterwards with Lasseter’s
Last Ride. These two books began the long
and successful association between firm and
author, and the man who constantly encouraged
Idriess was Cousins. Some day history will
record that the work of Idriess was an event
of great significance in Australian publishing.
Above all. Cousins was filled with generosity
—not only in a practical, sense, which will be
remembered by many authors, but in things
of the spirit. He never failed to give the
benefit of the doubt in all judgments. He was
a man greatly beloved by all who knew him
for his utter sincerity, kindliness and good
humor.
Here sketched by Dubois, George
Caiger, general-secretary of the Institute
of International Affairs, Hailing from
Brisbane, he founded his knowledge of
the subject on extensive travel, beginning
with teaching in a Yorkshire college,
touring the continent, then revisiting Ger-
many as a forward with the first English
Rugby team to tour after World War I.
Back in Australia in 1928, he taught
school in Tasmania for a year before
itchy feet carried him again to England
and, after a trans-Siberian railway-trip
which left him little terror of travelling
anywhere by that medium, to Japan in
1930. Picking up the language with the
same facility that had conquered Spanish,
French and German, he left Nippon just
before Pearl Harbor, to enter the Trans-
lation and Interpreting section of Military
Intelligence. Among the first into Japan
—Press correspondents beat him —he
GEORGE CAIGER,
Institute of International Affairs.
stayed to help advise the Occupation
Forces, returned home, and in 1947 was
back in Indonesia at the invitation of the
Dutch. Since then he’s been anchored in
Sydney, broadcasting commentaries on
Eastern affairs, but in September is off
again, this time to a Commonwealth Rela-
tions conference in Toronto.
P. J. Symes, Master of the Ring at the
Brisbane Exhibition, appeared on this
page about 15 years ago, caricatured by
Frith ; he is forgiving enough to send hjs
regards to the artist. Rising 83, and
looking 15 years younger, he’s been con-
nected with the Royal National for 30
years, 25 of them in charge of the ring.
He first felt Brisbane sunshine in 1883,
and made his home there, with business
interests as director of several Queensland
companies. Dorsetshire-born, he fol-
lowed the hounds in England, and at
Rosehill stud at Warwick (Q.), where he
had a full-brother to Poseidon, kept his
interest in horseflesh alive. Other hobbies
are fishing and golf—he looks forward to
playing bowls “later.”
Electronic Industries’ representative
with the television apparatus now showing
in Brisbane, Ronald Hughes-Jones, tall,
dark and well-groomed, might be from
Wales via Cambridge, but is from Mel-
bourne and Wesley College. A journalist
for 12 years, mostly as Canberra corres-
pondent for the “Argus,” he switched to
publicity for Ansett and was in London
when the last scrap started, and there
worked for the British D. of I. He re-
turned home in time to serve in the Middle
East with the A.1.F., as aide to General
J. E. S. Stevens, now g.-m. of Over-
seas Telecommunications Commission.
Hughes-Jones estimates about half a
million have seen the television show in
four States. After the Brisbane Exhibi-
tion he will travel with it back to Mel-
bourne, Perth, Sydney and, probably,
across to Maoriland.
An exceptional medical career closed
when surgical knight Alan Newton died
at 62 in Melbourne. Since 1909, when
he graduated from Melbourne University,
he had held a succession of the important
posts in Australian medicine and received
a bushel of honors, including membership
of the British Association of Surgeons,
which is confined to a small number of
the world’s greatest. He served in both
wars, with the A.A.M.C. in the first and
as chairman of the Medical Equipment
Committee in the second, when he or-
ganised the supply of drugs and medicines
to the services and civilian population.
He was a board-member of the Walter
and Eliza Hall Research Institute, and
organised the teaching in three major
hospitals—Royal Melbourne, Alfred and
St. Vincent’s. A brilliant speaker, his
term as Stewart Lecturer in Surgery at
Melbourne University was distinguished
by a series of addresses that aroused more
than professional interest. His character
was epitomised by his stock reply to a
patient worried about engaging a dis-
tinguished surgeon: “Pay what you can
when you can, and if you can’t, don’t —
but you must have the operation.”
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Mrs. Gertrude Stella Herring,
mother of the acting-Governor, Sir Edmund
Herring. Born in County Wicklow, Ireland,
she came to Australia at 19.
In Auckland (M.L.), Captain W. A. Beswick,
harbormaster. He served in many windjammers
since he reefed his first sail in 1899, and was
second mate of the barque West Australia
when she was wrecked on New Caledonia.
Since he became Auckland's pilot, 23 years
ago (the last three as harbormaster), he had
handled 4489 vessels —record for M.L.
In Brisbane, at 88, John Huxham, one-time
State Labor member and Home Secretary
between 1916-19. He shifted to London as
Agent-General in 1924, held the post five years,
and, as Queenslanders find it difficult to re-enter
politics after quartering in the Strand, retired
in 1929.
While playing bowls at Newport (N.S.W.),
George Dunbar, N.S.W. sales-manager of Aus-
tralian General Electric and treasurer of the
N.R.M.A. He had been with A.G.E. for 30
years.
In Sydney, C. J. White, 8.A., B.Sc;, A.1.C.,
well known in scientific circles and senior
science lecturer at the Sydney Teachers’ Col-
lege, where he’d taught for 38 years.
In Christchurch (M.L.), at 86, Harry
Reynolds, for 60 years breeder, trainer and
administrator in the racing world. An inventor
as well, he gave M.L. tracks their first auto-
matic totalisator, the first pneumatic-tyred
trotting-sulky, a starting-clock and a starting-
barrier. He toured Australia with a Maoriland
rifle-team in 1929.
Killed in a car accident in Melbourne,
Richard Gordon Watney, g.m. of Rootes, Ltd. :
(Aust.), and a noted European sportsman,
regarded as one of the world’s best car-trial
drivers. He founded the Rootes assembly-plant
at Fishermen’s Bend, Melbourne, three years
ago.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
A purely masculine affair is the Uncle
Bob’s Club. Composed of 1200 members,
each is pledged to work for the Ortho-
paedic Hospital at Frankston. How well
they have discharged their self-imposed
task is shown in the raising of £33,000
over the past seven years and the build-
ing of the Nurses’ Home at the hospital.
Now they have allotted themselves a
four-years programme to raise a further
£30,000 to provide extensions to the
hospital, and thus expand accommoda-
tion for infantile-paralysis patients by
one-third. W. J. Allison, the club’s presi-
dent, was host at a dance in the St. Kilda
Town Hall to which 400 went. Mrs.
Allison wore a powder-blue crepe jacket
with a pencil-slim black crepe skirt. Mrs.
Howard Barrett, wearing cinnamon-brOwn
crepes, was with her husband, who is
secretary-manager of the Children’s
Hospital, of which the Orthopaedic
Hospital is a part. With Dr. Galbraith,
superintendent of the Frankston Hospital,
was Mrs. Galbraith, in a black net gown
embroidered in gold beads. Wives of
committeemen present included Mrs. E.
R. Barker, whose black marquisette gown
had a bouffant skirt and the bodice an
off-the-shoulder line, Mrs. Keith’' Her-
man, wearing a pastel-pink satin gown,
and Mrs. W. G. Nevin, whose heavenly-
blue diamente-trimmed jacket was worn
with a black crepe gown. Doris Jones’s
black marquisette gown featured a
pleated skirt and a frilled bodice with
shoe-ring straps.
Todd Duncan’s popularity grows with
each concert. The latest capacity house
brought out a crop of stunning gowns, and
none more pleasant to the eye than the
gold-sequin-studded blue creation worn
by Mrs. Frank Tail. Of blue-and-silver
brocade was Ruth Tail’s gown. Mrs.
Bob Gove wore a leopardskin coat over
her lime-green pencil-slim gown. Both
Mrs. J. Heffernan and daughter Mary
pinned their sartorial faith to black.
Madame Vigano’s black Persian-lamb
coat was worn with a small hat trimmed
with a sweep of black ospreys. Lillian
Wightman also had black Persian lamb
to cover her trim black frock. Mrs. Todd
Duncan’s black Chantilly lace gown had
a blue faille frill outlining the low neck-
line.
A cheque for £l7OO, proceeds of the
Star Spangled Ball organised by the
American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Children’s Hospital, was presented to
Lady Latham at a recent meeting of the
auxiliary. At this function, too, Mes-
dames S. J. Fletcher, E. C. Daum, C. J.
Flynn and D. L Lampard were made
life governors of the hospital as a tribute
to the work they have done oyer the past
years. President of the auxiliary, Mrs.
W, W. Killough, contrasted her suit of
brown, small-checked tweed with a win-
ter-white felt hat. Hostesses for the after-
noon were Mesdames H. Allen and E,
Hotchkiss, the former in a hunting-pink,
hip-length jacket, black frock and small
black hat, the latter also in black and a
small feather-trimmed black hat. Mrs.
Fletcher’s pastel-pink felt hat was worn
with a tailored coat of black duvetyn.
Mrs. R. J. Bowell, who leaves for her
home in San Francisco shortly, wore a
mink coat with an unusual scalloped
hemline. The tight-fitting jacket of Mrs.
Arthur Davidson’s charmaine gabardine
suit had a button-trimming down the
front and round the edge ; her matching
hat was crowned with brown ospreys.
Mrs. H. Bettle’s black Persian-lamb coat
was topped by an osprey-trimmed black
hat. Mrs. P. E. Thomas’s suit was of
slate-grey gabardine. Black velvet and
powder-blue wool made neat alliance for
Mrs. D. J. Lampard. Mrs. Howard
Barrett, whose husband is secretary-
manager of the hospital, wore with an
amber diagonal-tweed suit a matching
hat carrying orange-toned feathers. Mrs.
F. W. Gillespie’s grey-flannel suit was
worn with a white knitted hat.
A well-dressed audience greeted the
premiere of J. B. Priestley’s “Ever Since
Paradise” at the Princess. Mrs. Garnet
Carroll’s silver lame gown was worn
under a deep cape of white-Arctic fox.
Brown ermine added distinction to the
Hyde lady’s gown of hyacinth-blue crepe.
Ann Mclntyre was in grey chiffons and
a dyed-ermine bolero, Mrs. W. Mc-
Dermott, who was with her medico
husband, had the bouffant touch in her
dove-grey taffetas. The “bodice of Vera
Pritchard’s deep-blue crepe gown was
ornamented with blue sequin shamrocks.
Mrs. Charles Davidson’s ballerina frock
was of deep-mauve taffeta. With her
black gown and mink coat Mrs. Maurice
Nicholas were wrist-length gloves of gold
tissue. A mink coat and osprey-trimmed
theatre hat was Mrs. A. T. Rochfort’s
choice. Mrs. Frank Martin wore a black
Persian-lamb coat over her black frock.
The skirt of Mrs. A. F. Nicholls’s grey
georgette gown had a deep frill; the lace
top was heavily beaded. Lady Clapp’s
Tong-fitting coat was of American Beauty
wool romaine. Helen Seymour’s cherry-
red velvet gown had a draped shoulder-
line. Mrs. Bruce George, whose husband
was making his first stage appearance,
wore a pretty powder-blue wool frock
which had white lace cuffs and a lace
collar.
The committee organising the Derby
Eve Ball, to be held at Earl’s Court —
the proceeds will be devoted to the work
of the Society for Prevention of Cruelty
to Children —got together for a meeting
at Cloyne, the Toorak home of Mr. and
Mrs. Louis Nelkin. Mrs. Chester Guest
is president, and under her capable guid-
ance many plans took shape. Committee
members present included the Fraser and
Gullett ladies and Mesdames Ross Grey
Smith, Ken Guest, Clive Steele, John
Quere, Bruce Rose, Tom Guest, Geoff
Grimwade and E. Baillieu. Ticket secre-
taries are Mrs. John Goodwill, Mrs. G.
Hanbury, Angela Fairbairn and Miranda
Casey. Mrs. Raife Cowan is secretary
of the committee.
The smart hat worn by Mrs. John
Masters in this Wolfgang Sievers study is
a Hugh Beresford model of amber-toned
felt with a sweep of pheasant feathers,
and is one of several she will wear at
the Paterson, Laing and Bruce Hat Show
for the Vera Scantlebury Brown
Memorial Appeal tomorrow. As Gwenda
Thoneman, she was educated at St.
Catherine’s and has become one of Mel-
bourne’s best-known mannequins. Mrs.
Masters has never taken lessons for her
work; she hasn’t needed them, walking
beautifully being one of her natural
attributes. Reading and music are her
favorite hobbies.
Melbourne’s Opportunity Clubs have
nominated Pat Cashman as their entrant
in the Miss Australia Quest, and to raise
money the committee organised a dance
at the Delphic. A white grosgrain ribbon
in which was pinned a cameo brooch was
a feature of the ensemble Pat wore for
the dance. It was a gown of white
Italian brocade with a frill of white gui-
pure lace finishing the strapless bodice.
Lois Findlay’s period-gown of bottle-
green faille had a draped skirt finished
with a bustle. Mrs. Bob Anderson’s
gown was of delphinium-blue crepe
romaine. Joan Smallhom effectively
combined pink and brown net, Mrs.
George Beggs was in junior-navy shot-
taffeta. Mrs. Bob Parrish’s black taffeta
gown with its floral pattern featured a
tiered skirt. Mrs. A. Aitken danced in
a gown of silver brocade. Pink tulle was
the choice of Loris Nettleburg. Jean Mc-
Rae’s white taffetas were patterned in
deep red roses. Mrs. L. Amatruda wore
black Chantilly lace. Mrs. John Mc-
Caffery’s white faille frock had a full
skirt and a long-sleeved, high-buttoned
bodice.
Racegoers at the Australian Steeple-
chase Day meeting at Caulfield included
Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of the
V.A.T.C. chairman, in junior-navy; Mrs.
Trevor Oldham, grey her suit; Mrs.
George Davis, her tweeds in red and navy
diagonals ; Mrs. J* S. Disney, her Charles
Creed suit of light-grey tweed; Mrs. L.
R. Buxton, in a jacket-suit of dark and
light-blue-patterned tweed; Mrs. O.
Tyson, wearing a beige angora frock,
matching jacket and small grey felt hat;
Mrs. H. R, Way in grey suit and match-
ing hat; and Mrs. C. Broomhall, in black
fur-trimmed coat and oyster-grey felt hat.
From Sydney
This writer’s French accent is much
improved since a visit to the Pellier dis-
play of Paris models. She can now say
“charmante” with the best A.B.C. an-
nouncer. The frocks thrill like the first
airs of Spring, and there was one wattle-
yellow evening frock that made direct
appeal to the Australian heart. The floor-
length skirt fell in straight, yet billowing,
fullness, from below a wide black patent-
leather belt. A further fleeting touch was
given by floating side-panels. The bodice
was made with a soft off-the-shoulder
effect —all very simple-looking, but only
the hand of the master could have
manipulated the yards and yards of
golden texture.
Romance came into the salon with a
thick-corded silk evening frock. This was
the shade of drifting lilac petals. The
skirt swept out in fullness that yet had
a sculpted look. Cunningly-fashioned
folds were responsible. The off-the-
shoulder line was finished with a narrow
straight band of the silk. Layers and
layers of white tulle had been whipped
up into a sherbet of a dress that foamed
and swirled as the wearer walked. The
tulle was draped into pannier effects at the
sides. The front of the bodice was the
resting-place of a very, very large silver
sequin butterfly. This was a low-
backed number, but a long white tulle
scarf was worn negligently around the
shoulders. To give stiffening to the
diaphanous skirt there was a deep under-
flounce of crinoline. A black chiffon
frock that swelled out from a tiny bodice
and trim waist in niched rows to an
almost crinoline fullness reminded of
pictures of the Empress Eugenie.
The designers have taken the precau-
tion to have their names woven into the
silk lining of suit and frock. So if it
were only to flash the name Worth,
Lanvin or Fath the model would be
worth the money to many a buyer. The
mermaid-like pleat in the back of a heavy
pink linen evening frock by Jean Desses
took the eye. There is coarse black lace
appliqued on the strapless bodice; this
lace lines the one-sleeved wrap-around
stole that is a feature of the model.
Patent-leather belts, boleros and stoles are
jn this Paris fashion news. Striking effect
was gained by a white-corded silk flare-
back bolero worn over a navy satin and
cr£pe afternoon frock.
Last Saturday the girl in this Clarice
Boyce photograph became the bride of
Murray Jackson, of Melbourne. Till
ffien she was Jill, daughter of the
James Robinsons, of Kimo, Gundagai.
There were 300 wedding guests from
surrounding country districts, Sydney and
Melbourne. The marriage ceremony was
in St. John’s Church in Gundagai, the
reception was held at the home of the
bride’s parents. The bride’s frock #as
of magnolia satin brocaded in a tiny
gold design. Among the guests were the
bridegroom’s mother from Melbourne
and Jill’s aunt, the Frederick Jordan
lady, from Sydney.
Archibald Prizewinner Harry Hanke is
off to London and the Continent at the
end of this week. His aw rev air show
at the Grosvenor Galleries has attracted
all lovers of art during the past week
or so. In particular the painting that
depicts with animation and good
draughtsmanship that bit of Sydney that
runs from Bent-street to Macquarie-
street held the Minister for Educa-
tion, Mr. Heffron. This takes in the
front of the Metropole Hotel and culmi-
nates in the Mitchell Library steeped in
sunlight. Art-lover Marcus Clark was
among the knowledgeable who lingered
before the pictures. President of the
R.A.S., Erik Langker, was another. Fel-
lows of the R.A.S. and other leading
Sydney artists gave Mr. Hanke a farewell
dinner a week or so before his departure.
Mr. Hanke is a favorite artist with The
Bulletin, and has painted portraits of
some of its management and editors.
Yesterday Dame Mary Gilmore cele-
brated her 84th birthday, and to mark
the occasion the Melbourne Bread and
Cheese Club, of. which she has been a
close friend for many years, sent her a
bouquet, accompanied by an attractively-
ornamented greeting-card bearing her
photograph, and autographed by the
members of the club. The card and
bouquet were handed to Dame Mary by
one of the Sydney members.
Five hundred pounds or slightly more
will go to the fund being raised by
women golfers to send a team overseas
from Joan Hammond’s concert in the
Town Hall last week. To this the women
golfers and friends came in battalions.
There were lots more women than men
in the assemblage. It was a very well-
dressed house, and proves that women
golfers don’t buy all their clothes for
wearing on the links. Jodn herself swept
on to the platform in gorgeous pale-
gold brocades that had a faint lilac pat-
tern woven through. The skirt fell in
straight fullness from folds, like wide
unpressed pleats. A fichu effect softened
the off-the-shoulder line. The singer’s
necklace was of amethysts, her gloves
were matching in tone. The Governor
and daughter Elizabeth, attended by
Captain Nash, were present.
At the antique exhibition for the Adult
Deaf and Dumb, now postponed to Oct.
19, a globe and a pistol, once owned
by Governor Bligh, will attract the His-
torical-minded. There will be Chinese
tapestries from the Chinese com-
munity and from collector Dr. Robert
Godsall, some old silver of the
last century from a North Shore Line
home, whilst a really lovely and varied
display of middle-century Belgian
cabinets and carved wooden figures is
being loaned by Mrs. Streber, of
Hornsby. The wife of Belgian Legation
Attachd Anciaux de Faveaux is helping
in the arrangement. Mrs. Arthur Davis
is president of the exhibition committee.
A guessing competition has for prize a
glass-fronted cedar cabinet containing
such gems as Waterford, Crown Derby
and Royal Worcester,
Next Friday afternoon will be C.W.A.
International Day. South Africa is the
country to be honored, and South
Africa’s High Commissioner, Dr, Vil-
joen, will be the afternoon’s speaker. The
Governor, Lieut.-General John North-
cott,-and Mrs. Northcott will attend.
If you had a soul for romance and a
ticket for the Pakistan Ball last week
you must have thrilled over the thought
of the glorious vista from Florida House
across Rose Bay with a moon full-sail
overhead. Thpn Friday, the date of the
ball, came grey and sodden with rain.
And in the night there was no moon.
Still, Florida House was very gay for
this anniversary of Pakistan’s independ-
ence. His Excellency the Governor and
daughter Elizabeth were present. The
large official party was received by the
Trade Commissioner for Pakistan, Mr.
K. H. Rahman, and Mrs. Rahman. Mrs.
Rahman’s sari was of white georgette
heavily embroided in silver. Colonel
Michael King and his wife entertained a
party of 50—about 30 of these had been
former residents of Pakistan. British
Trade Commissioner K. H. Henderson
and Mrs. Henderson, who had given a
cocktail party earlier in their home to
celebrate Mrs. Henderson’s birthday,
came on to the ball. Red Cross’s Mrs.
Persia Porter, very attractive in a swirl
of watermelon-pink chiffons, was noted.
Red Cross benefits from the success.
As far as women in the audience were
concerned, Thursday night’s symphony
concert was Elisabeth Schwarzkopf. This
fair-haired singer brought light and grace
to the glum platform. Her frock was of
blue-grey heavy crepe, the skirt drawn
in Grecian drape to the front and then
falling in fullness. A short Turandot-
like coat of deep blue and silver, its
sleeves about elbow-length, completed
the whole. Miss Schwarzkopf wore no
jewels about her rounded throat. The
house was packed, and a new note was
struck at the end of the short interval by
concert attendants in the foyer calling
the end of the interval and asking the
people to return to their places. But
couldn’t Authority preserve a truly Aus-
tralian flavor by training a few sheep-
dogs?
The Reg Willoughbys, who went to
London some time ago, write telling of
15 glorious days in Paris:
We walked everywhere, and, oh, the
happiness, beauty and gaiety of Pans!
Food was terribly dear, but, taking much
advice though little money, we used a
primus and did much of our own cooking.
We saw two opeiss —“Manon” was ex-
quisite. We saw ballet at the Opera House
and went to the Folies Bergeres. We came
home thoroughly exhausted. We found a
nice little flat yesterday, and are quite
happy. ... £
Reg is still taking lessons m singing from
the famous Clive Carey.
American Consul for N.S.W., Lawrence
iPasquet, and Mrs. Pasquet will be wel-
comed at a reception given in their
honor by the women’s section of the
Australian-American Association. This
is timed for half-past 12 at the Troca-
dero next Thursday. After the lunch
there will be a programme of music.


ALL-BRITISH
OlWttlf
&
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart fir Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
Legal Notices.
TO FRANCIS MICHAEL MURPHY for-
merly of Bennington and later of Booran
Road Ormond both in the State of Vic-
toria oxywelder.—TAKE NOTICE that
your brother STANISLAUS GERARD
MURPHY (as executor of the -will and
estate of your mother Bridget Murphy de-
ceased) has instituted proceedings against
all your brothers and sisters and yourself
by way of originating summons in the
Supreme Court of Victoria seeking an
order of a Judge of the said Court sanc-
tioning a Contract of Sale whereby the
said Stanislaus Gerard Murphy (as ex-
ecutor as aforesaid) has agreed to sell to
himself in his own right certain lands
which form part of the estate of the said
Bridget Murphy deceased Unless you
enter an appearance in the Prothono-
tary’s Office of the Supreme Court in
Melbourne within 21 days of the date of
the publication of this advertisement the
case may proceed in your absence' and
such proceedings will be taken and such
order made as to the Judge should seem
proper.—J. COLIN STEDMAN, Solicitor,
339 Collins Street, Melbourne, as agent
for William Ardlie, Warmambool, Vic-
toria, Solicitor for the said Stanislaus
Gerard Murphy.
JOHN SHELL DECEASED Son of
EDWARD SHEIL and CATHERINE
SHEIL (born HANLON) whose second hus-
band was JAMES FLANAGAN Pursuant to
Order of the Supreme Court of New South
Wales in Equity made in suit (No. 646
of 1946) entitled “In the matter of the
Estate of John Sheil formerly of Denili-
quin in the said State (N.S.W.) Drover
deceased Intestate Between The Public
Trustee Plaintiff and Jeremiah William
Bradley Defendant” whereby the follow-
ing enquiry was directed viz Who were
the persons entitled according to the
Statutes for the Distribution of Intes-
tates’ estates to the estate of the above-
named John Sheil deceased living at his
death and whether any of them are since
dead and if so who are their legal per-
sonal representatives if any NOTICE IS
HEREBY GIVEN that all persons claim-
ing to be entitled under the said enquiry
are to send by pout prepaid to The
Public Trustee 19 O’Connell Street Syd-
ney New South Wales Australia so as to
reach him on or before the 9th December
1949 their full Christian- and surnames
addresses and descriptions and full par-
ticulars of their claims or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said Order unless the Court
or a Judge thereof or the Master in Equity
on application otherwise orders Claimants
are to attend personally or by Solicitor
before the Master in Equity at the
Supreme Court Elizabeth Street Sydney
on the 16th December 1949 at 11 a.m.
being the time appointed for adjudicating
upon the claims A claimant not residing
in N.S.W. must send with particulars of
his claim the name and address of a
person in N.S.W. to whom notice to the
claimant can be sent. Dated 3rd August,
1949.— DAWSON & HERFORD, Plain-
tiff’s Solicitors, 104 Hunter Street, Sydney,
N.S.W.
THE “WILD CAT” ~
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. .. 2/-
Yeariy Subscription.. ...22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
Missing Friends.
EDMUND HAROLD CANHAM.
THE whereabouts of the above, who left
Mannum, South Australia, about 40 years
ago with intention going eastern States,
is anxiously sought by his brother and
two sisters. Any news, however slight,
will be appreciated. Write either W. E.
CANHAM or A. G. BOLTO, Mannum,
South Australia.
WOULD any person knowing the where-
abouts of JEANNE ROSEANNE
WEBSTER EDGAR, also known as
“Jeanne Roseanne Gale’’ and “Jeanne
Roseanne Nichols,” who is thought to
have married an Indonesian, or of Ger-
trude Agnes Larkins, Winifred Larkins
or Nancy Larkins, please communicate
with HOLT, GRAHAM & NEWMAN,
Solicitors, 178 Collins Street, Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
TO ELIZABETH LOMAX formerly of 215
Russell Street Melbourne in the State
of Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that your
husband REGINALD HENRY LOMAX
has instituted proceedings against you for
divorce on the 'ground of desertion for
three years and upwards Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
of the Supreme Court at Melbourne on
or before the Eleventh day of October
One thousand nine hundred and forty-nine
and file your answer therein on or before
the Twenty-first day of October One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-nine the
case may proceed in your absence. —
R. H. DUNN,'of 421 Bourke Street, Mel-
bourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
TO FRANCIS JAMES BANKS formerly of
Barklay Street St. Kilda in the State of
Victoria (and formerly of Beverly Hills
in the State of New South Wales). —
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MYRA
JOYCE BANKS of Oasterton in the State
of Victoria Married Woman has instituted
proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before
Monday the Fifth day of September 1949
and file an answer therein on or before
Thursday the Fifteenth day of September
1949 the case may proceed in your
absence.—GOßDON RENNICK, 839
Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitor.
Agent for P. J. HAMILTON ROWAN,
LL.B., Casterton, Solicitor for the Peti-
tioner.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divokch.
TO WALTER DOUGLASS. TAKE
NOTICE that HENRIETTA MERCER
DOUGLASS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1926 of 1949 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If'you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
at Divorce Office Supreme Court Sydney
on or before the 21st day of October 1949
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from P. 0. SINCLAIR, Solicitor,
26 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— (l.S.) J.
(tOUQHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
Unity in Western
Defence.
“Ek Dum”: The meetings of
the United States Chiefs of
Staffs with the defence repre-
sentatives of various European
Powers have smoothed out a
lot of differences and brought
effective defence of Europe and
the world into a better per-
spective.
There were natural misunder-
standings to be overcome, some
of them partly due to the Euro-
peans’ difficulty in comprehend-
ing that public statements in
the United States are very rarely
considered and responsible
statements,
A series of remarks on Euro-
pean strategy by General Bradley
had, for instance, left the im-
pression that in any plan for the
defence of Europe he had pro-
posed that the R.A.F. be ex-
cluded from the task of strategic
bombing.
He himself now explained that
all he had done was to pose a.
certain situation and certain
solutions as an illustration which
the Congress Committee might
be expected to understand. He
had merely assumed, for the
purposes of his exercise, that
the United States would under-
take collective bombing, and
that, “as it took time to assemble
and transport ground troops,
other countries would have to
meet the first emergency in these
departments.”
However, collective defence of
Western Europe is far from
effective achievement. National
pride is the greatest bar to its
effectiveness, and it can be taken
for granted that any man who
can persuade France and the
Low Countries to yield abso-
lutely to the exigencies of uni-
fied scheme will deserve not one
medal but two.
One obstacle is that each
country will be concerned
primarily with keeping its own
territory free from invasion and
spoliation and that none will
agree to any overall plan which
does not envisage this as a pri-
mary objective—unless it be
Norway, which is noted for its
realism.
One of the greatest difficulties
will be secrecy, especially in-
France, where the Communists,
as, in Australia, have permeated
every corner of Governmental
and Administrative activity.
There is certainly conflict
already between the British and
French, though this probably
has not got so far as has been
suggested by rumor, which
credits tales of open quarrelling
between Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery and General de Lattre
de Tassigny, who commands the
land forces of the Western
Powers.
France demands not merely
the defence of France itself —a
complete cover which will pre-
clude occupation by an advanc-
ing enemy—but defence of the
Ruhr and its resources.
The fact, however, is that
when war comes the Western
Allies will have to do the best
they can. They are likely to
meet attack by almost unlimited,
prepared manpower using every
route of access from East to
West and utterly careless of
losses. Any prepared scheme is
likely to fall down in the face of
the primitive nature of the on-
slaught and its immensity.
Probably the old Maginot
line is as sound a conception as
any for the West, provided it is
the right place, is of suitable
depth and is complete from sea
to sea, which the original French
one was not.
But to be effective it would be
a vast undertaking calling for
unprecedented quantities of
materiel and a complicated sys-
tem of aircraft cover, mobile
support and reserves probably
beyond the means of the West
for a long time to come.
The situation is scarcely one
for rejoicing.
The Communists decided to
hold a meeting in the Place de
“Enough of this nonsense , Cartwright; let that rope go!”
la Concorde to protest against
the visit of the U.S. Chiefs of
Staff on August 5, but only about
1500 demonstrators turned up
against 3000 police and 3000
Gardes Mobiles.
The implications of the Stras-
bourg Conference to form the
European Consultative Assembly,,
of which M. Spaak, of Belgium,
is to be president, are not very
important. The Assembly seems
likely to become another U.N.O.
without Russia, or another
League of Nations, It will go
the way of both.
In Troubled China.
“Ek Dum”: The invasion of
southern Korea from the former
—and probably still —Russian-
controlled «zone advertises the
increasing instability of the
China area,
Chiang Kai-shek has been to
southern Korea organising re-
sistance to the Chinese Com-
munists, and various other
people from the Philippines and
elsewhere are wandering over
the Pacific seascape urging in-
terested Powers, and especially
Australia, to awake and arise
and defend true democracy in
the shape of General Chiang.
Even Dr. Evatt, usually so
eager to take the limelight, and
so ready to espouse any cause
which is worth a few newspaper
paragraphs, has not been re-
sponsive.
The outlook of the United
States is positively chilling. It
has been expressed in a letter
issued on August 5 by Mr.
Acheson, United States Secre-
tary of State, that America could
have done nothing to help the
Chinese Nationalist Govern-
ment save all-out intervention,
and that this would not have
altered the result of the war.
Mr. Acheson’s letter is
as candid a document as has
been written by a diplomat for
a long time. He says that the
reasons for the failure of the
Nationalist Government are not
due to inadequacy of American
aid.
He declares that U.S. military
reports showed that the Nation-
alists did not lose a single battle
during 1948 through lack of
arms or ammunition, but that
the Chinese defeat was due to
the decay of the powers of re-
sistance of the Kuomintang,
whose leaders had proved inept
in the face of, the situation, and
whose troops were no longer
fighting troops with the will to
resist.
They were faced, the letter
said, by Communist troops,
under ruthless discipline and
driven from behind with fanati-
cal zeal, who did not have to
defeat Chiang’S sorry armies,
which, of their own nature, “dis-
integrated.”
The United States —and it
may be added other Powers —
felt that whatever dangers might
lie in a Communist victory, effec-
tive relations with and help to
the Chinese Nationalist Govern-
ment could only be usefully
given if that lax institution were
to put its house in order and be-
come a Government in fact as
well as in name. This the
Kuomintang seemed incapable
of doing, since it could not bring
itself to transform the Govern-
ment from a one-party Govern-
ment, with a large Opposition
party in armed rebellion, into a
moderate Government supported
by all non-Communist sections.
Mr. Acheson wrote:
It must be admitted frankly that
the American policy of assisting the
Chinese people in resisting the domi-
nation of a foreign Power or Powers
is now confronted with the gravest
difficulties. The heart of China is in
Communist hands. The Communist
leaders have forsworn their Chinese
heritage and have publicly announced
their subservience to a foreign Power,
Russia, which during the last 50
years, under the Czars and Com-
munists alike, has w been most
assiduous to extend its control in the
Far East In this case, the foreign
domination (which the U.S. has
always helped the Chinese people to
resist) has been masked’ behind the
facade of a vast crusading movement
which apparently has seemed to many
Chinese to be wholly indigenous and
national. In these circumstances our
aid wdyld have been unavailing.
Mr. Acheson believes that
“however ruthlessly” the Chinese
people may be exploited by a
party in the interests of foreign
imperialism, “ultimately the pro-
found civilisation and demo-
cratic individualism of China
will reassert themselves and she
will throw off the foreign yoke.”
And U.S. policy is to be to
“encourage all deveopments to-
wards that end.”
Peking to Be Capital
The Communist Government
is digging itself in tight in North
China. It seems that Peking is 1
to be the capital, as of old. Mao
Tse, the Communists’ chieftain,
is living there in the accustomed
state of Communist emperors,
with three palaces—-one at the
Jade Fountain, just beyond the .
Summer Palace, one at the Jade ‘
Cloud Temple and one in the :
old Hunting Park, which is
about five miles to the west of
the Summer Palace.
It is expected that the new
Central Government of China
will be proclaimed on October
10, which is the day celebrated
as the anniversary of the first
Chinese rising against the
Manchu dynasty. This anni-
versary is one of the Com-
munists’ captures in China, just
as the Eureka Stockade has been
made their own in Australia,
and Harper’s Ferry and John
Brown’s body in the United
States.
So far foreigners have been
well treated. Pending the con-
quest of the rest of China the
Communists seem bent upon
lulling Westerners into a false
sense of security, which is incon-
sistent with the belligerent
promkes of Mao about the
measures which he proposes to
take to oust Europeans from
Chinese trade and commerce.
The Southward Drive
The Communists under
General Chu Teh are now sup-
posed to be driving southward —
“all out” —along eight lines on
a 1320-mile front, modelled on
the Russian front of 1944. The
front, of course, is not solid, but
a thing of widely-separated
columns exploiting main routes.
The main objectives for the
moment seem to be Foochow
and the Fukien coast, prepara-
tive to the invasion of Formosa,
the capture of which would put
an end to any pretensions of
Chiang Kai-shek to hold any
useful part of China. It is pos-
sible that the Western Powers
might have a word to say about
Communist penetration of the
island which has considerable
strategic value, and which‘is in a
far different position from the
rest of China in view of the fact
that it was one of the spoils of
the Japanese war, in which a
peace treaty has not yet been
signed, though General Mac-
Arthur has announced that the
period of military government
of Japan can be considered as
having ended, giving place to
civil Japanese Government under
Allied supervision.
In the mainland drives, some
of which are making for
Kiangsi, the plan is to cordon
the last Chinese Nationalist
armies. So far the greatest dif-
ficulty of the Communist com-
manders in the southward drive
must have been to find some-
body to fight.
One so far unrecorded decora-
tion connected with H.M.S.
Amethyst’s feat was the award
to the ship’s cat Simon —“subject
to the recommendation of his
C.O.” —of the Dickin Medal of
the People’s Dispensary for Sick
Animals. Simon had a pretty
rough time in the Yangtze. He
was wounded by shellfire, but
“he continued to keep down the
rats which were threatening the
food supply.” The Dickin Medal
has been awarded to 53 recipi-
ents dogs, horses, carrier-
pigeons—but Simon is the first
cat to receive it. Long may his
whiskers grow among the
British, who are a very remark-
able people!
* » * ♦
“Ek Dum”: The Communist
Government of Albania an-
nounced suddenly on August 10
that the country had been in-
vaded by the Greeks several days
before and that hundreds of the
invaders had been killed. The
Greek Government proclaimed
that it knew nothing of this in-
vasion or of its army’s losses.
However, there is no doubt that
the situation along the northern
Greek border is complex: what
with the “Markos” Greeks claim-
ing to be the only true Com-
munist believers in that area and
Marshal Tito denouncing them,
the Bulgarian Macedonians and
a number of other groups and
bodies as impostors and enemies
of true Socialism, which, it
appears, flourishes in all its glory
only in Yugoslavia, the authentic
home of copyrighted Marxism.


j
I bends with it
m
Hi
mm
m
m
M
m
m* a
m
mf.
r
n
m
After a landslide on the road to
the Hague, Rotterdam, Holland, this
18" diameter Armco Corrugated
Nestable Culvert fell to approxi-
mately 7 ft. below its original position
without suffering any damage.
The strength and flexibility of Armco Corrugated Nestable Culverts have been proved
in installations throughout the world. Not only do these culverts stand up to the con-
stant battering of heavy traffic, hut they successfully meet the demands made by the
unleashed forces of Nature.
Ever since the first Armco culverts were installed in 1906, engineers have realised that
Armco’s challenging slogan, “Look under your roads,” is based on the superior durability
of Armco pipes under actual service conditions.
A staff of competent drainage engineers is at your service at all Armco offices. Write,
call or phone and experts will be only too pleased to advise you on your drainage problems.
w
ARMCO
DRAINAGE PRODUCTS
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA)
LIMITED
'A;- v> Tic
Kembla Building, 58 Margaret St., Sydney.
422 Collins St., Melbourne, Victoria.
319-325 Queen St., Brisbane, Queensland.
C.M.L. Building. 41 King William St., Adelaide.


FROM
CHEMISTS
EVERYWHERE
sm YOUR NAME TO
SECURITY
•A6AINST SHAVIN6 ROUBLES
It's a "sign of the times"—this Ingram's-
inspired anti-whisker-inflation period of
today. Be a happy shaver, and sign your
name to shaving security with Ingram's,
the economical shaving cream. Well
over a million shrewd shavers use Ingram's
today, and the number grows ... send
for your 7 FREE shaves on Ingram's now.
Use the coupon below. Ingram's
soothes as it smoothes as it softens, and
makes shaving cares a thing of the past.
Jngramv
SHAVING CREAM
Bristol Myers Co. Pty. Ltd.,
223 Pacific Highway, North Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME
ADDRESS..
I IS 7
ĵ
j
ĵ
my TWRCAT
WAS RAW
my eyes were red.
My nostrils sore, toy limbs like lead;
I could not sleep, I dare not smoke;
And when I ate I seemed to choke.
’Twas influenza at its worst,
'The dog’i disease!" a thing accurst;
My chemist sold me something sure
Hurray! for Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
For Influenza Colds.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Core
SUNDRY SHWS
Revivalist preachers could
learn something from Todd Dun-
can. At the end of his first pro-
gramme at the Melbourne Town
Hall, after the house had made
a thundering demand with its
collective feet for encores, he
advanced alone to the edge of
the platform and asked his audi-
ence not to applaud the final
item because “it means so much
to you and so much to me.”
Then he sang the negro spiritual
“Whah You Thah When They
Crucified My Lord?” The hush
that followed was so intense that
every word was heard, though
most of it was scarcely above a
whisper, and not a solitary hand-
clap split the silence as the
crowd filed towards the exits
with all the appearance of hav-
ing been spiritually shattered.
Programme-builders and con-
cert-givers could also learn
something from Mr, Duncan.
He and his accompanist, Wil-
liam Allen, made their entrances
and exits as smooth as their
singing and their playing, and
they almost seemed part of the
performance. There is some-
thing relaxed about the negro
temperament, and it infused the
whole show so that 17th-cen-
tury Purcell, 18th - century
Schubert, 19th-century Rach-
maninoff and Moussorgsky and
20th-century negro spirituals
flowed into one another with no
more incongruous effect than the
various styles in a Gothic
cathedral. Mr. Duncan’s bari-
tone was at its emotional best
in the lovely “When I Am Laid
in Earth,” from the “Dido and
./Eneas” of Purcell, its dramatic*
warmth came out in “The -Erl-
king,” and it was richly funny
in Moussorgsky’s “The Sex-
minarist,” the story of the
student whose interest is divided
between Latin verbs and a pretty
girl-friend.
* * * *
The musical marathon, started
three weeks ago at Melbourne
Town Hall, threatens to exceed
all previous examples. Having
picked up the torch from
Aleksandr Helmann, Mal-
cuzynski handed it back after
playing two magnificent con-
certos to the city’s- youth, while
Mr. Helmann followed up with
an all-Chopin recital. Joan
Hammond joined in with her
first recital designed to repay
the debt of gratitude she owes
to Australian golfers who helped
to start her on her career of
singing. She showed that she
hadn’t betrayed their trust by
singing four Puccini numbers to
an audience so rhapsodised
through having heard them be-
fore on her records that it
would hardly let her finish.
Bruckner’s Fourth Symphony,
played for the first time in Aus-
tralia by the Victorian Sym-
phony Orchestra, threw a tem-
porary fullstop into the proceed-
ings. It took a full hour to
narrate, and Rafael Kubelik,
who seemed to be inspired him-
self, got nearer to wearing out
his audience’s patience than any
previous conductor. Some
authorities consider Bruckner to
be the legitimate successor to
Brahms, and others think him
noisy and bombastic. His in-
terminable climaxes, fully a
dozen in the third and fourth
movements, certainly made one
feel “Well, by gum, it’s finished
this time,” but it wasn’t; and,
despite the pools of charm that
lay between each set of explo-
sions of the drums and brasses,
the conductor didn’t succeed in
preventing his audience’s in-
terest wandering to the exits.
The centenary of Chopin’s
death brought a flood of works
by that composer. Malcuzynski
gave him his most impressive
tribute in the Pianoforte Con-
certo No. 2, in F minor, played
under the Heinze baton. It was
very lovely.
* * * *
If there is an Actors’ Equity
in the celestial regions it will
issue a writ on behalf of W.
Shakspeare, Esq., against
Messrs. Joseph Carole and Alan
Dinehart for infringement of
plot in the case of “Separate
Rooms,” a roaring farce put on
at Melbourne Comedy. Stewart
Long is a mutt of a young play-
wright who marries June Clyde,
the star of his first piece, who
turns out to be a shrew, modern
version. He can’t quell her, and
they end up in separate rooms.
The woman-tamer is Hal
Thompson, one of those fan-
tastic American products who
commands the alleged minds of
10,000,000 readers and who
threatens to expose her past life
to the public interest unless she
converts herself into a loving,
devoted spouse wHo brings her
husband his dressing-gown and
slippers and an aspirin when he
comes home with a headache.
She is also admonished to leave
off her philanderings with Leo
Britt, a playboy. The miracu-
lous conversion occurs, the
couple are reunited and the re-
formed wife becomes a geyser
of all the domestic virtues.
Served up by swift, if not
silent, waiters, with a continuous
succession of such wisecracks,
“Separate Rooms” provides
more than sufficient light diver-
sion, Miss Clyde romps through
her role of shrewish wife with
inexhaustible abandon, Petruchio
Hal Thompson cracks a verbal
whip which is often witty and
Fred Murray, hitherto known
as a vaudeville entertainer, is a
butler who butles amusingly and
madly.
* * * *
“Ever Since Paradise,” put on
by the Aztecs at Melbourne
Princess, isn’t one of J. B.
Priestley’s more serious efforts,
but in stage technique it takes
the biscuit. It is a play within
a play within a play within a
play, and sometimes the players
are outside their own play and
inside another, and sometimes
they are commentators or com-
mentators on the commentators.
In fact, there are three pairs of
commentators, one set, Bruce
George and Laurel Mather, doing
their commentating on two
grand pianos. They are excel-
lent actors as well as musicians.
John Edmund, who plays all the
male roles except one, and
Nancy Brown, who does the
same for the females, discuss
love and marriage, and John
Faassen and Anna Kemp pro-
vide examples. At times things
become so complicated that if
it weren’t for the astute direc-
tion of Tom Rothfield all would
be confusion.
Basically, however, Mr.
Priestley’s views on his subject
are conventional and simple.
One of his couples is divorced
before the play opens, and
another of them is engaged in
careering with all sails set to-
wards the same objective. A
lawyer at the finish brings the
estranging pair together, and the
divorced pair are so impressed
by this example that they de-
cide to have a second go at
marriage. Mr. Priestley’s com-
ments are amusing, if divorced
from any human feeling.
* * * *
“The Well-digger’s Daughter,”
at Melbourne Savoy, is another
French film by the same people
who made “The Baker’s Wife”
(which has just opened at Syd-
ney Savoy), and, like it, is almost
a slab of nature. As the well-
digger, Raimu is the same simple
soul as the baker. He loves his
wells and he loves his daughter
(done with smoky feeling by the
lovely Fernandol), but knows
much more about the former
than he does the latter. When
he learns she is going to have a
baby he becomes the outraged
conscience of the whole French
nation and throws her out to
have her baby with his sister.
There is a wonderful scene
where, when he learns that the
father is the son of the rich
shopkeeper in the village, he
takes his daughter with him and
confronts the parents, who re-
pudiate their grandson for lack
of evidence.
The son is reported killed in
action, and this posthumous bit
of him now appears to have a
strange importance. There is
another poignant scene when
they interview the well-digger
and seek a reconciliation. It
appears that French law allows
of legitimisation in these situa-
tions. The well-digger is ob-
durate —he wants his own name
perpetuated in his daughter’s
offspring. The son turns up—he
hasn’t been killed in action —and
the well-digger overcomes his
scruples. The film’s quality,
which is seldom approached by
Hollywood or England, is in the
indulgent' way Marcel Pagnol,
the author, contrasts the muddle
of conventional and unconven-
tional emotions, the horror of
illegitimacy, pride of family and
intense commonplaceness of an
average group of people.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought.
Details of the birth of kangaroos?
As with all marsupials, the young
of kangaroos are born in the way
natural to all of the mammal class,
but at a much earlier stage of
development owing to a less com-
plete communion between the blood
system of the parent and embryo
than is found in the higher mammals.
The young of kangaroos, following
upon birth, are able to find their
way unaided to the pouch and attach
themselves to the teats. The journey
is accomplished by a sort of swim-
ming action through the parent’s fur,
which is grasped by the comparatively
well-developed hands of the young.
The teats, within the pouch, are
merely associated with the mammary
glands in .the supplying of milk, as
in all furred animals, and it is physio-
logically impossible for the teats to
be concerned with the actual fertilisa-
tion and conception of young. Re-
ports to the contrary usually arise
from faulty and disconnected obser-
vations. A complete account of the
matter, entitled “The Mystery of
Marsupial Birth and Transference to
the Pouch,” is given in “The Aus-
tralian Museum Magazine,” VoL 11,
Part 11, 1926.
* # * *
What is schizophrenia, earliest
symptoms, and can it be cured?
As a mental disease of adolescence,
schizophrenia, or split personality, is
the designation given to a group of
psychological disorders. In its simple
form, onset of the trouble is not
always accepted in its true signifi-
cance—nervous exhaustion and lack
of interest, etc., follow on a previous
mental alertness. It is not necessarily
inherited. A negativism or inferior
complex must be combated in treat-
ment, for which attention of a
psychoanalyst is advised. Cure is
possible with progressive develop-
ment towards adult maturity. Men-
tal attitude and outlook on life in
general especially demand attention.
* * * *
What is bronchitis, treatment and
best climate for sufferers of the com-
plaint ?
Occurring in both acute and
chronic form, bronchitis, or inflam-
mation of the bronchial tubes, per-
sists according to nature and extent
of the congestion. There is usually
a catarrhal origin—as with asthma,
an inherited tendency predisposes to
the trouble. In all cases, catarrh
and chest colds that recur demand
attention—body warmth must be re-
tained during cold weather. Preva-
lence of chronic bronchitis varies with
climatic conditions. Most suitable is
the dry, equable location; dampness,
fogs and cold ground-temperatures
for residence are not advised. With
hardening of the tissues over a period
of years the bronchial congestion
more or less persists. Constant care
is necessary.
Brief Answers.
R.J.: A J.P. is not required by
law to read every document he wit-
nesses. If in any doubt he should
read it for his own protection, but if
permission is refused he may decline
to witness the document 0.M.:
Names cannot be published. Hon.
psychiatrists attend at larger public
hospitals. Your doctor will arrange.
Letter posted T. 8.: (1) Drinking
utensils, cutlery, etc., Used by tuber-
cular patient must be boiled or other-
wise sterilised. (2) Sun wearing
apparel, bedding and like J.R.:
Attend at public hospital. Medicine
is supplied and charged for as
means permit.... C.E.: Net-making
is simple and easily learnt, but too
intricate to describe here; twine,
gauges and shuttle are usually pro-
curable from a ship chandler. For
lessons, apply to Divisional Director
of Handicraft Services (Mrs. E. L.
Harris), Australian Red Cross So-
ciety, 472 Queen-street, Brisbane....
Y.D.M.: Average prices are £5 ss.
each for full pages in color; £2 25.-
£3 3s. for full pages in black and
white; £1 ls.-£l 11s. 6d. for half
pages in black and white; £6 6s.
upwards for cover design with letter-
ing. A better proposition is for the
artist to share royalties with author,
in which case it is advisable to secure
a contract to that effect L.J.H.:
The extent to \yhich Portland cement
will deteriorate will depend on the
conditions of storage. It will harden
in a humid atmosphere after a period
of, say, six months, dependent, of
course, on the degree of humidity.
If stored in airtight containers it will
keep indefinitely U.M.R.: Write
Angus and Robertson, Ltd., 89
Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
D.B.McK.: Poem in praise of
football ordered off the field E.S.:
Neatly turned, but doesn’t quite make
the grade Riverbender: Nothing
promising about “The Promised
Land” J.S.M.: As you say, it is
four years behind the times
A.A.S.: Others have observed King’s
Cross with a more discerning eye
J.C.: It made us yawn R.D.: Do
you want Thomas Hood to turn in
his grave? R.K.: It might earn
you a pat on the head from the editor
of a children’s paper E.J.L.:
Anglers on the staff have noted the
fact that “its rivers teem with gleam-
ing fish” 1.J.: Not for us—
J.A.: Feed it to the silverfish
L.F.G.: You can have the ten back.
... .P.M.: It was drummed out of
the office R.G.H.: Says nothing
new E.L.S.: “Let me slip to
oblivion deep.” We’re not stopping
you... .C.S.Y.; Try it elsewhere
L.N.C.: Didn’t survive a second read-
ing M. 8.: Louis Esson covered
the same subject much better
G.T. r Send it to a woman’s paper.
M.N.: “Bushwalker” is tramp-
ing home... .U.R.: A little too slight
for us R.A.: No C.E.M.: We
silenced the lady singing Debussy....
J.S.: “Northern River” is a sluggish
creek J.McD.: Faint echoes of
Kipling... .P. 8.: Not this trip
A.G.W.: No nest in our pages for
the butcher-bird M.C.: Five lines
is all that we can spare you:
Who grumbles wastes his time.
The forces used in uttering angry words,
Filling the vacant atmosphere with gloom,
Are so much labor lost, irrelevant
To progress.
M.J.S.: Don’t tell us people are
still writing poems to Winston
Churchill O. Hector: Oh! Hector!
O.W.: Take those ’roos away.
M.C.: A poet who rhymes
“freeze on” with “television” screams
for rejection A.E.C.: What a
cheerful soul you are! A.C.S.:
If being alone causes you to write
like that, you had better go to the
movies at night J.M.S.: Basketed
both of them... .G.D.P.: Your poem
did not make the coal strike any
more endurable N.F.H.M.: Now
on their way back across the Tasman.
... .A.C.: You fell far short of the
goal.


>
is time for a
CAPSTAN
wm
r
m
m
Ml
W
Ml
I
CAPSTAN
The Empire's Favoured Cigarette
7930-J.4*
L
O
Ancestors
of an
Industry
John Rochlichy a Birmingham doctor,
invented the first commercial method for manu-
facturing sulphuric acid. One of the most impor-
tant of all chemicals, it had previously only
been made in comparatively small quantities.
Roebuck's invention of the lead chamber process
in 1746 resulted in this vital chemical being
manufactured on a vast scale, and also reduced
production costs by 75%. ,
Born in Sheffield in 1718, John Roebuck was the
son of a prosperous manufacturer. After taking
a degree in medicine at Edinburgh University, he
settled down to practise in Birmingham. Applied
science became his hobby, and the lead chamber
was only one of many improvements in chemical
production which he introduced to Birmingham’s
industries. In 1749 he established his own sul-
phuric acid works near Edinburgh, and later
greatly contributed to Scotland’s wealth by
founding the Scottish iron industry. By the time
of his death in 1794, he had been made a Free-
man of Edinburgh and a Fellow of its Royal
Society. Roebuck’s interests covered an ex-
tremely wide sphere, but his enduring claim to
fame rests on the chamber process, which with
the “contact" process patented in
1831 by another Englishman,
Peregrine Phillips, is still used to-
day to meet industry’s enormous
demands for sulphuric acid.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
i IL-84-16 ——
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The field which lined up for the
Australian Steeple at Caulfield on
Saturday was described in some
quarters as the worst for years, if not
ever. Never a year passes without
the same being said of one or other
of the major events of the turf.
Generally such remarks can be
placed in the same category as that
other classic perennial “horses of to-
day aren’t what they were 50 years
ago.” War Loan, who won the Aus-
tralian Steeple, carried 10.3 and
lowered the race record by Usee.
Betting on the Steeple was very
open, War Loan and Briar sharing
favoritism at fives while Autocles and
Worrowing were each at 11 to 2; four
of the eight other runners started at
less than double-figure odds. Of the
more fancied brigade, Briar lost his
rider half-way round, Worrowing,
who had led for a fair part of the
journey and was going extremely well,
fell at the second-last fence, and
Autocles finished fourth, John Mase-
field running second with Jung
Bahadur third.
Confirming the good impression he
made in winning the A. V. Hiskins
Steeple at Moonee Valley, War Loan
jumped splendidly throughout, to
cover the 3i-miles course with its 29
obstacles in 6.48 f. Jockey R. Watts
had the winner handy to the front all
the way, and, after racing neck-and-
neck with Worrowing for a couple of
furlongs, took charge half a mile from
home. Conceding War Loan lib., the
veteran John Masefield threw out a
promising challenge in the run home
from the last fence, but War Loan
always had slightly the upper hand
and won by two lengths.
Punters were on good terms with
themselves when Royal Title, hot
favorite for the Arkaringa Hurdle,
approached the last jump looking all
over a winner. However, the favorite
hit the jump heavily and, though
managing to keep his feet, was quickly
collared by the 16-to-l chance Rebel
Regis (F. Randall). Reported to have
seen service pulling a buggy in other
days, Rebel Regis ran on to an easy
win; he carried 311 b. less than the
favorite’s 11.7.
The Malakoff Stakes (12f.) went to
Lucky Robin (W. Box) —a marked
improvement on his previous per-
formance when, starting favorite, he
ran 10th in a field of 17 at Moonee
Valley. Nearly as solid a reversal,
though in the opposite direction, was
the effort of the 2-to-l favorite Blue
Legend, who beat only two horses
home. After being nearly last mto
the straight Lucky Robin finished
generously to just catch Manakau on
the post; Manakau had tried to lead
all the way.
Though they’ve been racing here for
quite a while, both Lucky Robin and
Manakau are New Zealand-bred. A
more recent arrival from across the
Tasman, the three-year-old colt Bird-
man gave a first-class performance in
the second Chatsworth Plate of a
mile. Conceding 31b. in the weights
to Black T)on, who claimed a 51b.
allowance for apprentice R. McGill,
Birdman ran the hot favorite to a
half-head. However, all credit to
Black Don, who lost a lot of ground
at the start and ran erratically dur-
ing the race, but won by pure game-
ness ; he’s a good colt. The first
division of the Chatsworth went to
another favorite, On Time (A.
Breasley) scoring well from Cragwil
and Gilt Archer.
* * * *
A partial restoration of public
transport facilities enabled racegoers
to get to Canterbury on Saturday
more easily than has been the case of
late, but the horses did their level
best to ensure that the two-footed
friend would have to walk home as
usual. Though two favorites were
successful, other winners started at
fancy odds.
To have races for apprentices
is an excellent thing; the less experi-
enced lads should' be given oppor-
tunities. It seems a bit thick, however,
to devote the main race on the card
to this purpose; Saturday’s Canter-
bury Park Handicap (9f.) was for
apprentices “not having ridden more
than five winners.” Nevertheless, the
Handicap winner, San Mateo, was
ridden a very well-judged race by 15-
year-old apprentice B. Husking, who
was having only his fourth mount in
a race. After leading the field up to
the six-furlongs mark, Husking
dropped San Mateo back for a
breather, leaving Farhad and Plausible
to cut at each other in front; then,/
coming again with a well-timed run
in the straight, San Mateo collared the
leaders to win by a half-length from
Farhad.
San Mateo must have been a perfect
skinner for most books —the Fresco
mare started at 50 to 1, Polar Star
being the next roughest in the betting
at 16 to 1. Certainly San Mateo
represented a wondrous result for
doubles bookies, the Flying Handicap
having gone to the 20-to-l shot Tartan
Girl. By the same token Tartan Girl
didn’t deserve to be quoted at quite
such long odds—she’s not a mare
by any means. There were some
pretty smart sprinters among the 16
runners in the Flying, and Tartan Girl
(J. Tuite) showed them a clean pair
of heels all the way. Other winners
cheered home by the bookies were
Golden Order (F. Williams) at 66 to
“You’re hungry? Well , I’m fed-up—have these!”
1 in the Welter and Niska at 16 to 1
in the Three-year-old Handicap.
It is difficult to see that the busi-
ness of barrier-stall starts has in,any
way benefited racing. In Melbourne
they abandoned the stalls after a brief
trial, and nobody would be greatly
upset if authorities in Sydney fol-
lowed suit. Worth quoting is an
item from the stewards’ report on
Saturday’s second Ashbury Mixed:
“Fox Valley (A. Podmore) was
fractious in the stalls and was lean-
ing heavily against the side of the
stall, with the result that Podmore
dismounted and was standing on the
ledge of the stall and was about
to remount when the field was
dispatched. The riderless horse fol-
lowed practically at the rear of the
field throughout the race.”
As Fox Valley started at 66 to 1,
his backers were, presumably, not
sufficiently numerous to make them-
selves heard in protest against this
extraordinary incident. There would
have been a rare rumpus had the
same thing happened to the 6-to-4
favorite Salamanca (R. Selkrig), who
won the race.
Mixed Stakes events gave punters
their only tolerable results of the day.
In addition to Salamanca, Barita,
winning the Campsie Mixed (Ilf.),
was a solid favorite; Artois (F.
Williams) won the first Ashbury at
4 to 1, and Warrah King (R. Selkrig)
won the third division at sevens.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):—
Windsor Novice: Humming Top,
1; Susan, 2; Annabel Lee, 3. Wilber-
force Three-year-old: Golden Tan,
1; Aqua Regis, 2; Citadel, 3. Pitt
Town Mixed: Benvolo, 1; Maranga,
2; Tithonus, 3. Benson Quality:
The Groom, 1; Denali, 2; Hisign, 3.
Hawkcsbury Grand Handicap: Grey
Nurse, 1; Tamasha, 2; Snowstream,
3. Richmond Welter: Amar, 1; Sea
Serpent, ,2; Salamanca, 3.
* * * *
Don’t know if it presages war-
fare in a new theatre, but interesting
and seemingly relevant cables recently
conveyed (1) that Marshal Tito had
won the Yugoslav Derby with a nag
appropriately named Robot, and (2)
that Winston Churchill had registered
racing-colors.
* * * *
/
Whenever air-faces are mooted
there are always plenty of unthinking
folk on hand to declare such affairs
useless, dangerous, pointless, etc., etc.
Mayhaps; but it’s worth recalling
that the Battle of Britain-winning
Spitfire was a direct development
from the planes British engineers de-
signed to eventually win the Schneider
trophy outfight in 1931, and the Mos-
quito, the best all-rounder used dur-
ing the war, was developed ffom the
D.H. Comet which won the England-
Australia air-race.
International air-racing was revived
in England during the recent Bank
Holiday week-end. The Schneider
Trophy competition, of course, ended
with Britain’s aforementioned out-
right victory, but a substitute was
provided by the Kemsley challenge
trophy, a handicap open to any air-
craft of any nationality with a maxi-
mum speed of over 300 m.p.h. Flown
over four laps of a 20-miles course,
the Kemsley trophy was won by a
British jet-propelled Hawker 1040
with an average speed of 508 m.p.h.
So much for the recent report from
America that British jet aircraft are
behind the times.
* * * *
For the current New Zealand
cricket tour of England, both sides
have been trying rut a b : t of young
blood. For New Zealand, J. R. Reid,
aged 20, scored a handy half-century
in his first Test match at Manchester.
Bowling against Reid in that match,
D. B. Close is, at 18, the youngest
player ever to represent England in
a Test.
* * * *
Conducted in a rather unpleasant
atmosphere from the start, the Davis
Cup mter-zone final between Aus-
tralia and Italy was delayed by
rain and vandal-damaged courts.
Making amends for his poor display
against the Canadians, Sidwell downed
the Eyties’ No. 1 man Cucelli 6r2, 6-4,
2-6, 6-2 in a match conducted spas-
modically between showers. Sedgman
beat M. del Bello in straight sets.
Australia won the doubles 2-6, 6-2,
6-2, 6-1, and clinched the tie.
* * * *
The Sydney Rugby Union match of
the day at University Oval, with
competition leaders Gordon and Uni-
versity at holts, was marred by tactics
more in keeping with the bar-room
floor than the football field. Un-
beaten Gordon had much the best
of the scrap to win 24-8. Other
matches ran pretty true to form;
Randwick downed Parramatta, 11-3;
Norths laced Eastwood, 19-5; Easts
beat St. George, 24-12; and Drum-
moyne partly relinquished its grip on
the wooden spoon by scraping home
against Wests, 5-3.
The annual Duntroon Military Col-
lege v. G.P.S. match was a poor
spectacle, the troops proving far too
hot, and beating the youngsters 21-3.
Despite the intense interest it always
attracts, this traditional match can
scarcely help but be a one-sided
affair. Apart from considerations of
height, weight and age, the school-
boys, drawn from eight schools, play
together for the first time against
Duntroon, whereas their opponents
have been playing as a team through-
out the season.
* * * *
All North Melbourne wanted
Essendon to beat Collingwood in the
V.F.L. matches on Saturday, for with
North a lay-down misere to beat
Hawthorn it would have put North
on top. Essendon duly did what was
required by 16.21 to 10.11, but at
Glenferrie Hawthorn fell upon the
astounded North, made them look
like a back-Gippsland team and won,
13.10-9.16. It left Carlton (winners
over Geelong, 9.10-5.8), Collingwood
and North level on top, Melbourne
and Essendon next. Melbourne dis-
posed of St. Kilda, 15.16-7.10, and
though Fitzroy lost to the unpredict-
able Footscray, 13.16-8.11, they share
third place with Geelong. Richmond,
defeating South Melbourne, 10.17-
9.13, has a slim chance of making
“the four.”
Finally getting a crack at
the Empire featherweight
title, Australian Eddie
Miller was knocked out by
Ron Clayton in the 12th
round at Liverpool (Eng.)
last week. .Seeking an
excuse for Miller, it was
suggested that he was short
of a gallop. A more likely
explanation is that he’s
been galloping toe? long.
Miller evidently thinks so
himself—-he has announced
his retirement.
Another pug, who may be a
featherweight but is certainly no
chicken, Ted Sprouster (9st.) could
count himself very lucky to have re-
tained his N.S.W. title by securing
a drawn decision against Ray Cole-
man (8.1 li) at Leichhardt. Sprouster
was badly beaten. Coleman’s straight
lefts and left hooks shook him
early in the piece, and in the 11th
he was floored well and truly, seem-
ing to barely beat the count. The
ref., however, declared that Sprouster
had risen at “nine,” and he con-
tinued to take punishment for the
rest of the bout.


LANE’S
DOC
TRAPS
ft
n
y/A
MADE IN
AUSTRALIA
ĵ
8 M Jaws
Folding Springs
OBTAINABLE FROM
ALL STORES &
PASTORAL SUPPLY HOUSES
SMOKERS
PIPE “TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHT. A blend of
tbe highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILLTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers Jor lots Wlb,
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane,
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on 0.0. D. Orders.
ESDAILE'S
NEW
k
TELESCOPIC SIGHT
For Rifles of
any calibre
O Fully corrected achro-
matic lens system.
O Optical parts rigidly
mounted, suitable for
use on highest power
rifles.
• Very long eye relief.
• Easily mounted on all
types of rifle.
Specifications; Magnification
2$x —Eye relief 3sin. to siin.
Exit pupil 7mm.— Relative
luminosity 49. Field of view
23ift. per 100 yards.
£l6/10/-
AND SONS
PJXUTDj
42 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY. BW 8631.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
BRISBANE SHOW CATTLE.
“Taurus”: Queensland is the
premier beef State, and its Royal
National Exhibition this year
opened with one of the most
spectacular beef-cattle displays
seen South of the Line. Secre-
tary H. W. Watson summed it
up. “This show, in the midst of
a big strike, typifies the spirit of
country people who, no matter
what the odds, will never admit
defeat.” Shipmasters circum-
vented transport restrictions by
sending cattle from Holbrook
and Albury, 1100 miles, by
motor-float, probably the longest
haul ever undertaken in Aus-
tralia with stud cattle. Not only
was the journey expensive, but
the cattle did not travel quite so
well as expected. However, it
was worth it. Studs in nor’-
western N. S. Wales sent stock
by road to the border, whence
they were shifted by rail to Bris-
bane, Queensland railways hav-
ing guaranteed to fulfil all orders
for the transport of stud stock to
Brisbane show. Generally speak-
ing, southern exhibitors con-
fined their teams to sale bulls.
This excluded a few of the
tops of each breed, notably the
youthful Yarrandabbie Wood-
bine (imp. in uterd), who won
the female Hereford champion-
ship in Sydney at seven months
under the English judge, C. H.
Morris; Miss Thelma Mc-
Master’s Sugwas Laura 6th
(imp.), Sydney reserve champion
and one of the most typical
Hereford females ever to come
to the country ; the tops of D. R.
McCaughey’s Coonong Short-
horns ; as well as Poll Here-
fords from Mrs. Hordern’s
Milton Park at Bowral and the
recently-formed W. O. Fairfax
Harrington Park stud, Narellan.
Queensland teams reflected
the influence of the many high-
priced bulls their owners have
bought at Sydney sales over the
past few years. The usual stalls,
packed to capacity, would not
accommodate all the entries, and
over 100 bulls were bedded in
temporary stalls made from
tubular-steel and canvas. The
readiness with which the R.N.A.
provides facilities for breeders’
stock is an example to inter-
state R. A. Societies.
Herefords - Homed and
Poll
Queensland is the most
Hereford-minded State of any.
The breed stands up to ticks and
dry times. Entries more than
doubled those of the next biggest
section, which, significantly, was
the Poll Herefords. Howard
Yelland, of Victoria, made his
first appearance as a Royal
Show fudge, and his capable
handling of the section should
get him other assignments. He
scrutinised nearly 200 bulls and
40 females, as well as group
classes, and old hands pro-
claimed it the best-quality lot
ever paraded in Brisbane. Of
the southern studs. Colly Creek’s
team stood out for uniformity
of type; except for a Golf Hill
Call Boy heifer, all were the get
of Vera Voucher (imp.), grand-
son of the great Vera Robert
Fairymead and Cressbrook
showed the greatest improvement
of northern studs, with strong
competition from Woodlands,
Knapdale, Ennisview, Calliope
and Cootharaba. Champion bull
was Colly Creek Estate’s Volley,
and this stud also paraded the
junior champion. Colly Creek
Vagabond. In Brisbane there is
a rule that bulls under 18 months
cannot contest the senior cham-
pionship, otherwise Vagabond
would have won both prizes.
Both bulls have great character,
and there were few bulls at the
show comparable for fleshing.
Reserve senior champion was
S. B. Reynolds’ Moorlands
Destiny, who is by the 1945
Brisbane champion, who is a son
of the 1944 champion. Reserve
junior honors went to W. D. M.
Thompsoh’s Knapdale Baritone,
It is Thompson’s second show
with stud cattle, but he has been
a successful competitor for a
long time with fats.
The judge described the
female champion, E. R.
Reynolds’s Ennisview Cherry
Ripe 60th, as the out-
standing beast of the
section, full of charac-
ter and of beautiful
quality. The junior
champion heifer, Bex-
ley Constance 43rd,
has a grand front and
sweet head and is a
daughter of Sugwas
Dandy (imp.).
Poll Herefords were
judged by J. A. Hanson,
of Victoria. A big
proportion came from
Queensland studs, and
N• S. W - contributed
some choice speci-
mens. The breed is
constantly improving.
and it is unfortunate
three leading N.S.W- studs
cancelled their entries at the last
minute owing to transport ■ diffi-
culties. However, the section
showed the progress being made
in Queensland. All champion-
ships went to the Rockhampton
district. Champion bull was
Wilson and McDouall’s Calliope
Ringpost; reserve, J. Sparkes’s
Buckamall Bushman; junior
champion bull, E. W. Mc-
Camley’s Eulogie Dazzler 2nd;
reserve, J. H. Doyle Estate's
Merawah Souvenir. The female
champion was E. W. Mc-
Camley’s Eulogie Juliet 3rd ; re-
serve, E. P. Fowler and Son’s
Glenview Lady Moth ; junior
champion, Wilson and Mc-
Douall’s Calliope Little Duchess
33rd; reserve, J. R. Perrett’s
Mount Hope Bella Gem.
Eulogie stud won the sires’
progeny prize with stock by
Milton Nestor.
Black Polls
Aberdeen - Angus breeders
turned on a special treat for
J. H. Cridlan, grandson of the
founder of the Maisemore Park
stud, who flew from England for
the judging. The breed, under
powerful propaganda, has
jumped from a minor to third
place at Brisbane for numbers,
and it took an imported bull to
spoil the uniformity of a section
which stood out for quality and
presentation. Highlight in this
ring was a grand team from
Booroomooka, including the
1949 Sydney champions, Regal
and Noon, a full sister of Noon,
and a couple of first-prize
Sydney Show bulls. Bald Blair
sent the biggest team the stud
has shown since the early
’thirties. L. T. Sanderson, just
returned from judging at Perth
(Scotland), sent a male quintet
from Wallah. Abington was re-
presented by some good bulls by
Gratitude of Fordhouse (imp.).
Of the northern studs, Sanim
made the most spectacular im-
pression with the get of Mulben
Embassy (imp.), who sired many
winners in New Zealand. Texas
Station, lucerne reservoir for the
Scottish-Australian stations scat-
tered throughout the north,
paraded a strong team, and D.
Dowding’s string included a bull
that has left him good stock,
Emblem of Ngawaka (imp.
N.Z.). Other exhibitors were
J. M. Newman and F. H.
Hutton, the latter all the way
from Central Queensland.
The section proved a triumph
for N. L. Forster, of Abington,
Armidale (N.S.W.), who col-
that ‘No room there, Mum—ours are second-class , anyhow .”
lected four firsts, one second and
the reserve senior championship,
also the junior and reserve junior
championships. The Sydney
champion, Booroomooka Regal,
successfully defended his title.
The judge created something
of a sensation in the female sec-
tion when he passed over the
dual Sydney winner Booroo-
mooka Noon in favor of D.
Dowding’s Fairlands Black Opal.
Reserve honors went to Bald
Blair Bent, champion of 1947.
The junior heifer was a daughter
of Mulben Embassy (imp.),
W. E. Webster’s Sarum Carrie
4th, and she later was awarded
a special prize as the best
Aberdeen-Angus of the show.
Her owner, W. E. Webster, of
Kingaroy, won the Breeders’
Group, but the Sires’ Progeny
stakes went to Booroomooka.
The big crowd at the Aber-
deen-Angus ring included the
Hon. Mrs, Michael Mason, of
England, who paid top price
(4200gn5.) at the February Perth
sales, and has just visited
Anthony’s Lagoon, Brunette
Downs, Austral Downs and other
big herds in North Australia. A
daughter of Lord Stonehaven,
former Governor-General, she
has judged in Scotland and South
Africa, and will attend Mel-
bourne show before returning to
England in September.
Shorthorns Horned and
Poll
The younger male classes pro-
vided intense competition in
Shorthorns, but W- R. Raper, of
Culcaim (N.S.W.), found very
little difficulty in making up his
mind in the older classes, which
were mostly a battle between
two Riyerina studs, Coonong
and Woomargama, and the
standard was by no means the
best Brisbane has seen. How-
ever, there were some promising
bulls in the younger classes, in
which competition was more
general. It seems strange that
Queensland, with so many good
Shorthorn commercial herds (a
trainload of Cubbie bullocks at
Cannon Hill on August 4 aver-
aged £3O 14s. 2d.) should be re-
presented at Brisbane show by
only one stud, that of H. C. and
J, C. Taylor, Cambooya.
The champion bull was O.
Lloyd-Jones’s Hambledon Royal
Consort, ' a son of the late
Chapclton Regent (imp.), and
winner of the 18-and-under-21-
months’ class, whom the judge
declared to be the only bull that
he would regard as being an out-
standing sire. Reserve was C. P.
Fairbairn’s Woomargama Mas-
querader by Coonong Napoleon.
Junior champion was H. C. and
J. C, Taylor’s Turanville Majesty
by Tarvas Mandarin (imp.),
while the reserve championship
went to K. J. Patterson’s Kin-
kuna Royal.
The female classes were poorly
supported, with senior cham-
pionship honors to Turanville
stud, and the junior champion-
ship to the Whitney Pastoral Co.
Poll Shorthorns showed a 20
per cent, increase in numbers on
last year and a big improvement
in quality. One of the “stars”
was A. Langmore’s white bull,
Prospect Icelander, in the class
six and under 12 months, pro-
claimed by many to be the best
calf on the ground, of all breeds.
He took the junior champion-
ship, and had he been eligible
would no doubt have qualified
for senior honors. As it was, the
champion bull was J. T. Scrym-
geour’s Gunnawarra Radiant
64th, with A. Langmore’s Pros-
pect Model 2nd Reserve. A
feature of the female section was
the defeat of Scrymgeour’s
Netherby Matchless Miss, who
has headed the section at Sydney
and Brisbane on several
occasions. She went down to A.
Langmore’s Prospect Eleanor,
carrying tremendous fleshing and
standing four-square. The junior
champion female was Scrym-
geour’s Netherby Nell Gwynne.
Devons and Red Polls
Devons were the surprise of
this year’s exhibition. Usually
R. A. Howell is the only ex-
hibitor, but the Estate of the late
C. D. Judge, G. C. L. Judge,
W. H. Rich, H. Sweeney and
Taiping Investments (Aust.),
Ltd., provided keen competition
on this occasion. The Devon
has a big following in Queens-
land, where some of the best
herds in the northern part of the
State comprise Shorthorns with
a dash of Devon blood for
hardiness.
The champion bull was H.
Sweeney’s Devon Hill Curley
Boy ; reserve G. C. L. Judge’s
Ban Ban Quaker; champion
female, Estate late C. D. Judge’s
Ban Ban Carnation 9th ; reserve,
G. C. L. Judge’s Beggons Hill
Ruby (imp.).
Northerners like their oeef
and milk separately, but two
N.S.W. breeders gave them an
idea of what good Red Polls are
like. T. L. and J. J. L. Fleming
exhibited mature stock from
their stud at Aberdeen, while
J. W. Perry paraded a fine team
of young stock which travelled
700 miles by road from Oberon.
Dam of one of Perry’s bulls has
won the Sydney championship
four times.
Classing the Small Flock.
“Ben Acre”: With the clip of
up to 30 bales the difficulty in
classing is to avoid having too
many lots. Draft the flock ac-
cording to main wool classes —
hoggets, ewes, wethers. Merinos,
crossbreds, etc. Divide the bulk
of the wool from each mob into
two classes. Odd fleeces that
will not match either class can
be stacked aside. Some of this
third lot can be put in with
other classes as they come
along. What fleeces that are left
should be baled separately, to be
bulk-classed by the broker.
Skirting is a matter of discre-
tion. Take out all burr if pos-
sible, and, if skirting is heavy,
divide the skirtings. When there
will be only a small quantity of
skirtings keep them even by
putting some of the inferior
wool of the trimmings with the
locks.
Interlotting, whereby a large
number of bales of wool of the
same class from various clips
are sold as one lot, and, also,
bulk-classing are to be recom-
mended to the small flock-
owner. Most Victorian brokers
interlot on their own judgment
and bulk-class any mixed bales
unless instructed otherwise;
N.S.W. brokers interlot, or have
bulk-classing done, as instructed.
Veges in Dry Country.
“North”: Where there is little
soil for a small greens patch for
the household an old woodheap
is the place. Without water,
other than that left over from
washing-day and leavings from
bathroom and kitchen, it is
possible to provide more than
enough greens for a family of
five. Started in April and con-
tinued only until the weather
begins to warm up, when


For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole
year, yields 20blb. ; has 20ft. runners
loaded with large red tomatoes. Disease
and drought resistant. Sensation in
America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Kurnell, Sydney.
than.
e FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
heen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
Lit
<s<
T ute P
*Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, .etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free, G.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Maine
Address,
B. 17/8/MO
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House.
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250.
CUAKD
‘tMUvcis
PROTECTA
dig,
TILL
Suitable for every type of business it records
•II Sales. Credits, Payoats etc. Strongly built,
pleasing In appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
thnritmilng Agrmt~
BTDNEY
Melbourne .
ADELAIDE ;
rue a
W. C Fenfold & Co. Ply. Ltd.
» Norman Bros. Ply. Ltd.
• Vardon A Son» Ltd,
• Docket Book Co, jAoiU
¥ If
£
\
AML 1 !
• Behind every bale of yonr
. wo.ol lie years of courageous
planning and effort.
- A.M.L.&F. realise this. That’s
why they give your hard-
earned wool the same
personal care and supervision
as you would yourself, and
that’s why you can be sure of
the best possible price when
you send your clip to
A.M.L.&F.
86 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863. azumi
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches— N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Charleville, St.
George, Ounnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents: McPhie & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
You'll travel
lighter with
TSAVEL CASES
Stronger,
smarter,
longer-lasfingl
? firm s//£/immim
j
For protection against wind and
rain these wind jackets fill the bill.
English-made of cotton gaberdine,
effectively shower proofed, they
have two pockets and zipp fronts.
A common sense, general utility
garment for outdoor Australia 67/6.
The House of
PEAPES
WYNYARD STATION
GEORGE ST. • (Opposite Hunter St.)
JnJ3
m
For sport
and leisure
Sports wear to be both
comfortable and stylish must
be chosen with care. The
sports trousers here shown
were tailored in England
from all wool worsted. An
%
extension band keeps the
waist line neat and trim.
Belt loops, of course. 98/-.
■
.
m
■
Perfect comfort and smart styling
make these the ideal golf shoe. Tan
grained calf Derby Shoes with
rubber soles and heels.
40/3 48/6 54/3
Flexible soles: 36/3.
Also Tan and White Moccasin,
Rubber soles and heels .. 51/-.
evaporation makes the venture
impossible, this garden gives a
constant supply.
Before the late spring plant
out as much as can be cared for
during the heat in deep troughs
—old bath-tubs are ideal.
Where the north wind is the
greatest ally of evaporation
make a brush fence of any suit-
able bush available. The tubs
keep the moisture in, and, pro-
vided the position chosen is
sheltered, there will still be
greens when the winter garden
is a wreck.
For Day-olds.
“Mullengah”: When rearing
day-old chicks maintain even
brooder-heat at all times, be-
cause uneven heat means uneven
birds and loss. Light and run
the brooder under working con-
ditions at 90deg. F. for at least
three days before the chicks
arrive. This dries the brooder-
room and shows up faults.
Have feed and water ready for
the chicks. A good dry mash
in shallow containers, and with
a vitamin D supplement, is suit-
able. Wet mash can start after
two days, and greenfeed after
the first week. See that they
drink without getting wet.
Confine the chicks closely to
the brooder for the first few days,
then give them the run of the
room. As they grow they’ll need
more space. Wean them from
the heat at four weeks. Move
them in batches of 50 or 75 to
small colony-houses. A 10ft. by
Bft. shed is large enough for 75.
Equip the sheds with a wire-
frame on which they can sleep.
Suspend a single bag covering
to within 12in. of the frame, with
provision for a flap to come
down to the floor in front.
Drop the flap after dark.
When chicks are seven to
eight weeks old remove the bag
covering, and put the perches
into position about lOin. above
the frame. Chicks will gradu-
ally begin to perch with a
minimum of attention. ■
Cane-setts for Planting.
“Beroo”: Farmers have al-
ways argued as to the best cane
to use for plants (B. 29/6/’49).
At Mackay it is customary to
use only well-grown plant crops
despite the fact that on occasions
other material has given excellent
strikes. In South Queensland
ratoons or cane from standover
crops are used because the buds
are harder, and although sliglitly
more slowly away, are more re-
liable. In North Queensland,
ratoon cane is popular, but any
blocks which have been damaged
by grubs and so will probably
be unfit for harvest when the
mill starts are regarded as excel-
lent sources of plants. On the
Burdekin, few ratoon crops are
grown, but they are always
sought after for setts; lushly-
grown plant crops frequently
give failures, particularly early
in the season.
Poorly-grown stalks, if the
poorness be due to grubs or
drought or poor cultivation, do
not necessarily make poor setts
for planting, but one must be
careful that the stunting is not
due to disease.
It does not seem to matter
much whether plant or ratoon
crops are used, but they should
be reasonably mature, free from
disease and insects in the stalks,
the eyes should be well-,
developed and hard and the seed-
bed in good condition.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”; Feeding of candy
to bees is of value in districts
where bees must be fed at any
time from mid-winter until
mid-November, although usually
only an emergency measure.
The sweet can be made by mix-
ing 201 b. of sugar, one level tea-
spoon of cream-of-tartar and
two pints of water. Add cream-
of-tartar to the water, then the
sugar. Place over a slow fire
and stir vigorously until a con-
fectioner’s thermometer shows
that the mixture has reached
245 deg. F. Remove from fire
and keep stirring for 10 minutes
before pouring into moulds,
“W, Court”: Several climbing,
beans come under the name
“poor-man’s bean,” but the best
I know covers a huge trellis area
in no time and bears plump,
purplish-black beans of good
flavor. The vine is perennial in
moist ground in warm districts;
I have known it to crop fairly
well in the winter months, but it
flourishes and bears best in
warm weather.
“Billjim”: Observe these
points when pruning canning
peach-trees: Don’t completely
remove laterals and the second-
ary growth on the lower portion
of the leaders. Vary the length
of the laterals and the nupiber of
shoots retained according to the
character of the variety. Remove
all diseased wood. Remove and
destroy all brown-rot “mum-
mies.” Major cuts such as those
necessary for the removal of
limbs broken during the fruit
season should be painted over
with a sealing material.
“C.A.A.”; Gruels are useful
as food for calves during the
first four to five weeks, states
Victorian “Journal of Agricul-
ture.” Where milk is scarce and
large quantities of gruel are fed
see that calves get plenty of
grazing on green pasture. Gruels
are made from any of the fol-
lowing; Equal parts pollard.
finely-ground wheat and lin-
seed ; equal parts finely-ground
wheat and skim-milk powder;
three parts finely-ground wheat,
three parts dried whey and two
parts good-quality meat-meal.
Add one teaspoonful of lime-
stone to all gruels which do not
contain a large proportion of
skim-milk or skim-milk powder.
Give two ample feeds each day.
“Pongo”: An easy way to
prevent axes and other tools
from rusting is to remove one
side of a kero.-tin, fill with sand,
saturate sand with sump-oil and
bury heads and points of tools
in the sand.
“Quorn”: New Zealand
spinach, or native spinach—it is
the same thing—grows very well
if planted close together and, if
possible, sheltered from strong
winds. If planted very close the
shelter is optional. Badly in
need of greens for a young
family, and unable to procure
any, I fenced a patch of native
spinach and replanted until it
was a compact bed. Results are
excellent.
“Mali”: Cuttings from willow
and poplar trees may be planted
in spring. If old wood is used,
cut truncheons up to 2ft. in
length and plant in permanent
positions. Cuttings from last
year’s wood should be 18in. long
and should be taken before the
leaf-buds have burst.
“My”: Attracted by freshly-
turned earth a rabbit will often
reopen a burrow; but, levelled
off and sown down with grasses,
the scar will soon heal, present-'
ing no invitation to bunny to
make q fresh start.


ĵ
“Every Speedbird service
has vour name on it!”
j
Flying by 8.0.A.C. I always feel as though the
whole trip was planned especially for me. The
service, the meals (complimentary, of course),
the constant concern for my comfort —all com-
bine to make me feel completely at home.
This talent for service with the accent on you —
a talent learned during 30 consecutive years of Speedbird experience
—begins long before you step aboard your plane. It begins with
your local 8.0.A.C. Appointed Agent. Just tell him where and
when you want to go —then, leave the details to him. On the day
of your flight you’ll see this same quiet, efficient Speedbird service
at work in city terminal and airport—answering questions, giving
expert advice, checking tickets and handling baggage.
Yes, wherever you may fly along 150,000 miles of 8.0.A.C. routes
to five continents and forty-two countries, you
will experience this same high standard of
efficiency and courtesy. The actual flight is
swift, sure and comfortable. No extras, either,
for distinctive Speedbird service that has your
name on it I
m
GREAT BRITAIN • USA • BERMUDA • CANADA • MIDDLE EAST
WEST AFRICA • EAST AFRICA • SOUTH AFRICA • PAKISTAN • INDIA
CEYLON • AUSTRALIA • NEW ZEALAND • FAR EAST • JAPAN
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
30; FLY-M
A9/AU
Information & Bookings: Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin (General Agents tn
Australia) or from Booking Agents in all cities.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
IN ASSOCIATION WITH Q.E.A., S.A.A., T.E.A.L.
it *>’
1
c
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti*
septic . Cuticura ‘cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum i’owder. .
futicura
V* OINTMENT
TROUBLE-FREE
SERVICE
trojan
TRUCK TYRES
/00% 'dSusfar/fo* •• • (yfasnp/'ons of /6e ifyacf
A PRODUCT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
0T26.16.49
Hfi
*cwry
SMOKE-OH!
PIMMS No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Last night John tried to put his
arm round me three times.”
—Story in weekly paper.
That’s stretching it a bit far!
4* 4* 4*
“Don’t worry about your wife s
past.”— Sydney “D.T.”
But never forget her present.
4° 4* 4*
“All persons he had mentioned
would be willing to make statements
on oats.” — Melbourne “Age.”
Even though it went against
their grain.
“This is the second day of the
heading, which is expected to last
this week.” — Sydney “Sun.”
Even though the news is stale.
4* 4* 4*
“Passengers prefer women to look
after them in the air.”— Daily paper.
But not just plane Janes.
4* 4* 4*
“Even the bore is of some use, he
is somewhat analogous to the flea,
which stirs the dog into action.”
—Correspondent in suburban paper.
And keeps him up to scratch.
+ 4* +
“Most of us keep one eye on the
temptation we pray not to be led
into.” — Sydney “Sunday Sun. 1 ”
And wink with the other.
4* 4* 4*
Usually enthusiastically push-
ing “ins” out, Calwell has just
been as enthusiastically endea-
voring to push the “outs” in.
Not Heart and Sole.
“The switch to the ‘boots and
all’ campaign against Communism is
almost too late, in the opinion of
private members.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
It isn’t merely private members
who
Are well aware that Chifley’s
seeing-through
The treachery of Communistic
hate
Disguised as innocence comes
years too late;
For anyone endowed with sense
could see
That here was not just mere
philosophy
Intent on bringing paradise to
workers
But rather something suiting
knaves and shirkers.
So, when at last, hurt by “in-
gratitude,”
Ben Chifley strikes a fighting
attitude.
He can expect no credit for a
move
That, in itself, does little else
than prove
That even he who showed no
fight at all
Will stand at bay with back
against the wall.
And lash out with those boots
to save his skin
That others would have doffed
to wade right in.
D.H.E.
Day in the Life of a New-
Gestapo Agent.
Pursuant to instructions re-
ceived from Very High Un-
mentionable that anyone men-
tioning the word “liberty” or
criticising Socialism has to have
thorough “grilling,” acted in-
stantly on receiving an anony-
mous phone-call advising that
the caller had a few minutes be-
fore heard a woman in a
restaurant say to another:
“This free-medicine thing seems
silly to me.” Taxi to restaurant
and got a seat at table next
that of woman whose appear-
ance tallied with description
given. Shocked to hear woman
say to friend she thought “it
was high time the Government
dealt with the Communists.”
Formed opinion instantly woman
was extreme Right Wing, pos-
sibly dangerous subversive type.
Decided to shadow them.
Went to pictures, and I
managed to get seat directly in
front of them. During news-
reel showing Dr, Evatt making
speech at U.N.O. distinctly
heard woman at back laughing
and talking and obviously tak-
ing no notice of important items
in film. Confirmed suspicion of
subversion. Later in same
newsreel during a shot of Mr.
Calwell making Domain speech
extreme Right-wing woman
said to friend “My dear, he does
remind you of a cocky, doesn’t
he!” Then they both laughed.
Apparently woman was out-ahd-
qut Fascist, so after show
shadowed her home. Ques-
“It seemeth, Sir Tristram, that if thou hadst not so good
a lance as Saint George, ihou shouldst have had a
better horse!”
tioned her for two hours on her
activities outside her domestic
duties. Learned she plays gin-
rummy with husband and
friends regularly one night a
week. Probably blind for con-
spiratorial meeting to overthrow
Socialist Government by force.
Looks like job which calls for
planting microphone among vase
of flowers. When expected ap-
proval is through for offering
rewards to children to spy on
mothers, jobs such as this will
be made much easier. Also
tapping private telephone con-
versations.
Learned on getting back to
office that anonymous call had
been traced to a Marx House
phone number. Just as well I
investigated. Certain ones at
Canberra attach just as much
importance to a tip-off from
that quarter today as when
Marx House informers got the
Australia First men interned.
Going through Press files
during afternoon came across
reported speech of president of
Spinsters’ Club in which were
used the words “preserve our
freedom.” Decided, interpreting
instructions from Very High Up,
that words had sinister mean-
ing, consistent with disloyal
thoughts, so went to interview
person concerned.
Worst fears were confirmed
when I stopped to listen at door
of her flat. After about 20
minutes heard two feminine
voices, one of which I heard
say “Aren’t all these restrictions
annoying! ” Gained impression
instantly that they were the ex-
pressed sentiments of one who
was a potential, if not an actual,
fifth-columnist. When my knock
was answered and I sternly an-
nounced who I was the woman
shrieked and swooned. Prob-
ably clever subterfuge to side-
track investigation. Obviously
a clear case for further surveil-
lance.
On way back ran into several
schoolgirls just getting off bus,
and, acting on instructions from
Certain Persons, decided to
hsten-m to their conversation.
One in pigtails looked at an
open book she was holding, then
stopped, struck an attitude and
declaimed: “Give me liberty or
give me death!” Then they all
laughed.
The girl evidently came from
a Menzieite home, and by the
words used she was at the time
certainly guilty of harboring
anti-Chifleyist and bourgeois
thoughts. I stopped them, and
began interrogating the girl who
had spoken as to what her
parents said in her hearing re-
garding political affairs, if they
had ever expressed the thought
that liberty was something to
be prized, if she had ever heard
them speak slightingly of Dr,
Evatt, if any friends or relatives
had ever expressed similar views
in her hearing, did she make a
practice of influencing her fel-
low-scholars with her ideas on
liberty, and if any of her vigoro
team had said anything which
might lead her to believe their
parents had said they were glad
Mr, Chifley s bank-nationaiisa-
tion plan had been beaten, which
could be classed as a subversive
activity. Unfortunately the girls
screamed and ran away before
I could get satisfactory answers.
That in itself was a suspicious
sign. However, got description
of girl and name of school she
attends for further investiga-
tion.
One of the new members of
the service innocently asked me
when I got back if, in view of
the fact that the P.M. had said
in his Press advertisements to
the miners that the strike was a
Communist conspiracy, and that
as conspiracy is a criminal
offence carrying very heavy jail
sentences, would the Communist-
party leaders be
subjected to the
same surveillance
as was now be-
ing exercised on
extreme Right-
wingers, in the light of
action which might be taken
against them. Everyone had a
good belly-laugh at that, and
someone said the service would
be able to start a gymnasium
now they had acquired a dumb-
bell.
Finished day with discussion
with colleagues as to how long
it would be before the projected
issue to the service of brown
uniforms, complete with Sam
Brownes, distinctive armbands,
shoulder-holsters and rubber
hoses.
BO.
Half-pint.
The tiny toper, short and spare,
Drank from a pewter-pot.
One moment h,e was clearly
there —
Next moment he was not.
His passing came {sad epitaph!)
When midway through his
drink.
He fell in the remaining half
And was poured down the
sink.
BRIAN BUREAU.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Promised Land
Some light has been thrown on the dis-
content in the minds of so many who
migrate from the Old Country. If they
have left England on the strength of
propaganda such as the Queensland
Premier recently dished up to them in
the English Labor quarterly “Fact,” then
no wonder they are sadly disillusioned.
Two articles were contributed by Mr.
Hanlon to “Fact” under the title “This
Is Queensland.” One or two paragraphs
are particularly interesting: “Some
typical prices: Two-pound, loaf, 6d.;
pound of tea, 2s. 4d.; butter. Is. Bd.;
beef, Is.; one dozen eggs, 2s. 3d.; man’s
suit, £6 10s. ; cotton singlet, 35.; silk
stockings, 6s. 4d.; trousers for a lOj-year-
old boy, 12s. 9d.; double-bed blankets,
595. per pair; a house, £B5O in Brisbane,
£7BO in other large towns, £650 in the
country.”
I don’t know where Mr. Flanlon got his
figures, but I wish I could get an introduc-
tion to Mr. Hanlon’s tailor. Another
man I would like to qieet is that con-
tractor who will build me a house in
Brisbane for £850! Mine, completed be-
for the last couple of wage rises, is a
small, compact home of 8i squares. On
the Premier’s figures it should have cost
about £650 at the most, but actually it
cost £l6OO and I wasn’t stung—that was
the price quoted by three different con-
tractors and accepted as true value by
War Service Homes.
If figures such as those quoted by the
Premier are the sort of nonsense would-
be immigrants are dosed with before com-
ing here, no wonder there is disillusion-
ment waiting for many of them. They
pour out their life savings to get here
and then find that a home which they
expected to get for £B5O will cost at least
£l7OO.
The Premier stressed that Queensland
was the “Queen Of the North”; he
stressed that “Labor” had protected the
worker; he boosted the Arbitration
Court; wrote of the golden opportunities
Queensland offers and pledged the Gov-
ernment to share these good things with
Empire interests. Nowhere did he point
out that Queensland, in common with
the rest of Australia, suffered from the
40-hour-week, low production, poor trans-
port and shipping services, and a rising
cost of production. — Repatriate (Q.).
Sermon
Fifty years ago I heard a preacher from
Scotland expounding the parable of the
prodigal son; pointing an economic
rather than a spiritual moral. He declared
that when any man had “more siller than
sense” and more leisure than responsi-
bility he would spend his substance in
riotous living, avoid work and only come
to himself when he was reduced to eat-
ing husks. He also insisted that the same
rule applied equally to individuals and
communities. He said, “If the workers
of Australia suddenly had their wages
doubled and their hours of labor halved
they would go on a spree till their pockets
and their bellies were empty.”
At the time the conditions appeared to
be impossible, but they have come to
pass, not suddenly but nevertheless surely.
Already there are tens of thousands of
sobered prodigals who would be glad to
be hired servants with a house to live in
and with bread enough and to spare.
There are signs of returning sanity, but
the fatted calf and the gold ring will have
to be earned, not merely by the contri-
tion that comes with a hangover, but by
hard work and discipline therewith. If
the returning prodigals demand and re-
ceive another list of handouts and
amenities the spree will continue until
the preacher’s vision is fulfilled to the last
jot and tittle, including the hunger and
the husks. —R. V. (S.A.).
Building Costs
A correspondent in the daily Press has
advised intending home-builders not to
do anything for a couple of years because
costs have almost reached the stage where
the building industry must break down
or reduce price of homes. More than two
years ago a responsible property-valuer
in Sydney told me not to do anything
about my home for a while because costs
“are at their peak and must come down
very soon.” Time has proved how wrong
he was.
The facts are that thousands of people
are desperate for homes, and will do any-
thing at all to meet the builders’ demands.
With the constantly spiralling cost-of-
living chasing, and being chased by, ever-
increasing wages there appears to be no
end to the whole futile business.
An important factor in the high cost
of building today is the system adopted
by many builders. The day of the builder
who had his own team of tradesmen
appears to be finished. Many so-called
builders do little more than the organising
and then catching 10 per cent, (often
more) on the accumulated charges of car-
penters, bricklayers, electricians, plumbers
and drainers —all working as “sub-
contractors.”
Those sub-contractors tender for jobs
at prices which include their own wages
as workmen-on-the-job plus 10 per cent,
profit on the total costs involved in carry-
out their ccmtract—supplying materials,
labor, etc. By the time half a dozen sub-
contractors have taken their cut from a
job and the “master” builder has col-
lected his wad, the cost of the job has
swollen like a poisoned pup. — Jindivick
(N.S.W.).
Price-control in W.A.
The main argument against price-
control is that, as far as houses and land
are concerned, owners must (1) sell at a
loss, (2) sell on the blackmarket, or (3)
refuse to sell. Conversely, another fault
is that some properties are overvalued by
the sub.-treasury.
Sub.-treasury valuation has become the
accepted basis for negotiations in pro-
perty deals, with a varying allowance
dictated by commonsense or necessity. It
is never suggested that the real value is
below S.T.V. But it often is.
It is obviously impossible for the
Treasury to inspect each property. Con-
siderable reliance must be placed on sworn
valuators, and their valuations can vary.
A man who isn’t an orchardist, or
a gardener or a poultry-farmer may
value a property embracing all three
occupations. He values the fruit-trees at
£1 each—they may be worth more, or
an experienced orchardist may pronounce
them worthless. In any case he can’t
inspect each tree individually.
The soil may, for any one of a variety
of reasons, be unsuitable for gardening,
at least without intensive and expensive
preparation; but he has his different set
classes, from heavy loam to sand, and
he values accordingly. How can he do
otherwise? The poultry-sheds and -runs
may be constructed along the approved
lines, or they may be so built that an
experienced poultry-farmer would de-
molish and rebuild the lot. But they’ll
go down as so many squares of such-
and-such construction, at so much a
square.
The experienced buyer fights shy of
overvalued property. The inexperienced
buyer pins his trust on the infallibility of
the sub-treasury valuation, which he, be-
lieves to be well below value. When,
having discovered his mistake, he sells
out, he makes a statutory declaration
itemising the improvements he has added
to thp place since he bought it, and gets
a higher price from another learner
still at S.T.V.
Such cases are becoming common.
The limit is reached eventually, of course,
and someone loses, perhaps heavily. But
if controls were removed these properties
would regain their true values. Then
a buyer could obtain a valuation from
a sworn valuer who would be intent on
arriving at a true figure, not at fixing the
highest price at which he thought the
sub-treasury would pass it.
Without controls some properties would
fetch about as much as they do now on
the blackmarket. Others would sell for
less than S.T.V. Buyers and sellers would
know where they stood, and could negoti-
ate without feeling that they were com-
mitting a crime,—W. J. (W.A.).
The Secret Ballot
The desire to dominate others is the
original and universal sin, and the only
protection for the meek or weak against
the ambitious and strong is the secret
ballot, which is the highest expression of
tolerance for public opinion and the only
insurance against political enslavement.
The first act of a dictator is the smash-
ing of the ballot-box. In Australia the
industrial unions make and unmake
Parliaments and their policies. Their
leaders assume dictatorial powers. It is
clearly necessary that their election to
office and their decrees when in office
should be under the control of the rank-
and-file of the unions if actual dictator-
ship by self-appointed bullies is to be
rendered impossible. —W. S. (S.A.).
Another Strike?
West of Townsville (Q.) today are
oceans of grass, with no beast to eat it.
Many people do not realise how depleted
our cattle population has become because
of last season’s drought and other draw-
backs. Cattle cannot be conjured out of
' nothing once they have been slaughtered
or died from starvation, but the refusal
of some graziers to stock up again until
taxation is reduced comes very near to
cutting their own throats. Also, since
they own the land and no one else can
use it, it is equivalent to a strike.
Yet no one talks of freezing the funds
of graziers. I know the difficulties
of the man-on-the-land, but it is diffi-
cult to justify continued holding of
thousands of acres of good cattle country
and at the same time refusing to make use
of it. I remember when they would not
send beasts to market because the prices
they got were not worth the trouble they
went to in raising them. Now, they won’t
raise or send them because, they say,
taxation is too high. They want it all
ways.
Coalminers are not the only ones who
want a lot more for a lot less these days.
The old-time station-owner put everything
into the job of raising sheep or cattle,
just as did the old-time miner or worker.
Now, the country can be starved for coal
and, soon, for meat, because of the whim
of the producers concerned. — No'Sirrah
(Q.).
“After a Job”
Conditions described by “Spike” (B.
3/ 8 / ’49) would not be tolerated in any
office of the Commonwealth Employment
Service, and I can confidently say that
they do not, in fact, exist. All officers of
the*service are impressed with the abso-
lute necessity of affording every possible
assistance to persons applying for employ-
ment, whether part-time or otherwise, and
the number of appreciative letters which
have been received from time to time
provide ample evidence that a very satis-
factory service is being given to the public
generally.— Acting Regional Director
(N.S.W.).
Soil Fertility
It is a popular belief that the farmer
of today with all the latest resources of
agricultural science at his command
achieves the highest yield ever. That is
far from being a general rule.
In Harold Massingham’s Where Man
Belongs there are some interesting com-
parisons of yields in Scotland in the early
19th century and the present. Today the
average crop of oats in Scotland is 43
bushels per acre. Sir lohn Sinclair (the
first president of the Board of Agri-
culture) gave the early 19th century figures
“in good seasons and fertile districts” as
59 to 72. Barley now averages 40 bushels
per acre, Sinclair gives for his day 47 to
53 A good crop of potatoes then aver-
aged the same as now — 1\ tons per acre —
but fewer tubers were sown per acre then.
Nowadays 17| tons is the average per
acre from turnips. In 1809 48 tons per
acre was considered a good crop.
“How were such figures that so deflate
the fashionable statistical arrogance of
today achieved?” Massingham asks, and
gives the answer:
First by adequate labor —one Lothian
farm of 670 acres was worked by 91
laborers, and another of 702 acres had 163.
No labor was considered too laborious if
it contributed to the fertility and improve-,
ment of the soil. The tenants erected dry-
stone dykes at their own expense, and
summer fallowing involved six or seven
ploughings, together with repeated rolling,
harrowing and hand-weeding. Secondly,
the most liberal applications of dung came
from the “mixed middens.” But compost,
as well as dung, was freely used, and,
besides, the residues of the farms were
made up of seaweed and town manure,
peat and wood-ashes, slaughterhouse
refuse and crushed bones. In 1801, in
fact, Lord Meadowbank developed the
Indore process under another name.
A third reason for this very marked
superiority over our own farming was that
the farmers themselves knew a great deal ,
about soil, minerals, crops, leys and rota-
tions. Fourthly, the actual workers on the
farms were much better fed, worked much
harder and were incomparably more highly
skilled. The wages were low, but a high
purchasing-power more than compensated
for shortness of cash. Moreover, each
laborer had a house and garden of his
own, a cow for which he received rations,
liberty to keep pigs and .poultry, and an
allowance of oatmeal.
—Kanimbla (N.S.W.).
Gas from Coal
By the Ramsay method of gasifying
coal dn the seam, 90 per cent, of the total
gas can be recovered. By mining the
coal, we recover only 60 per cent. The
Ramsay method removes the risk and
most of the labor of mining, and ensures
a continuous supply of cheap power. It
could be applied to our coalmines, and
within a few years we could be inde-
pendent of coalminers.
There may be reasons why this method
has not been tried in Australia. If
initial expense is one, it is no longer
valid. One week of unemployment at the
nresent rate costs more than would coyer
changeover to the Ramsay method, which
is past the experimental stage —it has been
used successfully in Europe.—Gravel-
snatcher (W.A.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 30
Across.
I—This is about the biggest woman
on earth (with a heart of stone)
and yet about trifles. (6, 2,7)
9 No special one goes to New
York. (3)
10— Movie-goers like the eyes, the
eyebrows, the cheeks and the
ears as distinct from the chin, the
nose, the mouth and the fore-
head. (6, 8)
14— See America grave before you
and I have fifty to a tea that is
made to order. (6, 5)
15— Pull to the west. (3)
17 —Bravely in. the saucy return and
in the manner of -one with
nothing to do. (10)
19—Albert swallows the sun-god in
the sea. (4)
21 —Gloomy dean. (4)
23 —Deprive the coin of the currency
value with the devil before it is
in extreme ease. (10)
25 — Turn to the offside. (3)
26 — What gamblers go for record pro-
duction by the abattoirs. (3, 8)
28 —These acoustical devices are get-
ting the depth of lodges. (8, 6)
33 — Kept by watchful accomplices.
(3)
34 Box where undertakers go, but
don’t give up the struggle. (5, 2,
3,5)
(cryptic type.)
(i Solution in next issue.)
Down.
2 Also to ring. (3)
3 Willow turned up according to
label. (3) ...
4 Frees a Parisian to the dissipated
coppers. (8)
5 Why take your ease in a place
which is no thoroughfare for a
camel. (3)
6 Professional charge. (3)
7 Conductor noted for nutty inter-
pretations puts the nut’s com-
plement around you. (5)
8— Come in again ere rent is altered.
(7)
10— Turning down the last month’s
inner surface. (9)
11— Spill you with a corresponding
afterthought and French. (5)
12— The second month to get the
goat that is feverish. (7)
13 — An alternate name as missing
Jfrom a descendant of Moham-
med. (3)
16 —Christian sect with hideouts in
Cambria. (9)
18 —Casting a glance at His Majesty
at the card game. (7)
20 —Is this jockey a fuel merchant?
(8)
22—Horse with quite a distance be-
tween tip and tail in Victoria. (7)
24 —Taverner, perhaps, is on the
inside. (5)
26 Ensnare an American poet. (5)
27 Light-hearted in France. (3)
29 Negative weight turned up. (3)
30— Extra. (3)
31— cow of a one we follow. (3)
32 Spot for Dorothy. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 29.


Socialism..
OR A FREE
AUSTRALIA?
\ ■
Do you want to live under a Socialist dictatorship . , ,
or do you want Australia to remain predominantly a
country of free people?
Make no mistake. At the coming election a vote for
Labor will be a vote for regimentation.
Without a mandate the Chifley Government set out to
destroy the private banks. If given a majority this year,
it would feel free to pursue the socialisation and regi-
mentation to the utmost limits.
YOU CAN SEE THE WAY THE SOCIALIST
GOVERNMENT IS HEADING. It is for you to decide
whether or not you want to see Australia dragged further
and further along the socialistic road—the red road to
serfdom.
THE QUESTION IS WHETHER AUSTRALIA IS TO GO WHOLLY SOCIALIST. WHETHER YOU ARE TO
SUBJECT YOUR LIFE. YOUR JOB. YOUR BUSINESS AND YOUR PRIVATE AFFAIRS TO THE SCRUTINY
AND DICTATION OF CANBERRA OFFICIALS, OR WHETHER YOU WANT TO SEE THE RESTORATION
OF RESPONSIBLE PARLIAMENTARY GOVERNMENT WITH AUSTRALIA PREDOMINANTLY A COUNTRY
OF FREE ENTERPRISE.
R. G. MENZIES,
PARLIAMENT HOUSE, CANBERRA.
Authorised by D. M. Cleland, SO Ash Street, Sydney.
FLI2-4*
