

v mirH
CHATEAU TANUNDA
ţ
A PRODUCT OF THE
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3612
Wednesday, May 4, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
DANISH SITRIC SILKBEARD
FOUNDED DUBLIN'S
CHRIST CHURCH CATHEDRAL
CHURCH, unlike other
Cathedrals in the British Isles, was
originally founded by the Danes. Sitric
Silkbeard, or Sigtryg, lead A- of the
christianised Danes who had settled in
Dublin, established the church in 1035,
but the only remaining portion of the
original building is the crypt, which
extends the whole length of the
Cathedral. .
In 1172 Strongbow ,and his Anglo-
Normans built a new church on the site.
The Norman archbishops John Comyn
and Henry de Londres, mistrusting the
old Celtic-Danish community, attempted
to transfer the chief ecclesiastical power
of the church to the Church of St.
Patrick, but succeeding archbishops
divided their attentions equally between
the two churches, although Christ
Church Cathedral usually takes prece-
dence from seniority.
■ In 1486 Lambert Simnel was crowned
king in Christ Church, and the Lord
Deputy was sworn in in this Cathedral
until the sixteenth century.
After the disestablishment of the
church in Ireland in 1870 St. Patrick’s
was declared the national Cathedral and
Christ Church Cathedral became the
mother church of the united sees of
Dublin and Glendalough.
During the years 1870-78 complete
restoration of the Cathedral, costing
£220,000, was undertaken by the archi-
tect George E. Street and financed by
Henry Roe, a distiller.
Within the Cathedral may be seen the
tomb of Strongbow, Richard de Clare,
the second Earl of Pembroke, who died
in 1176. Beside the tomb is a truncated
effigy, reputed to be that of a son of
Strongbow, who was cut in two by his
father for showing cowardice in battle.
(Photo. Courtesy Irish Tourist Assn., Inc.)


This Book FREE -to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name -
My Address
S.B. 149
AGE,
The Red Page
MORE FROM CIANO.
Europe from 1936 to 1942 is familiar
literary territory ; but Ciano’s Diplomatic
Papers (Odhams) is a tour conducted by
Mussolini’s Foreign Minister; and he
takes you, among other places, into the
private conferences between Hitler and
Mussolini. At Florence, in October,
1940, for example:
Hitler answers that, since it is not known
what the future has in store, it is necessary
■ to stay in France until the end of the war
and to consider the French as sureties for
our victory, since, when England has been
beaten, it will be possible to give the French
rewards detached from Britain’s possessions
but, if the war should finish with a com-
promise with Great Britain, it is obvious
that France must pay fo£ everybody. There-
fore, for the moment, he considers that
France should be given promises of a vague
nature about the modesty of our claims
but that it is still too early to define the
situation in full.
Though he seems to have been a
pleasant enough fellow when he wasn’t
plotting to destroy Albania, Greece or
Yugoslavia, or, when Hitler’s war broke
out, running about in panic looking for
somebody to betray in order to save his
own skin—and, to be just, his country—
Ciano alive was about as much use to
mankind as a weasel. Dead, with the
Diplomatic Papers following the color-
ful Ciano’s Diary, he is proving invalu-
able.
The Diary began in 1939 ; the Diplo-
matic Papers, besides filling some of the
gaps in die Diary, open in 1936 and so
provide a good deal of new information
on the Sanctions period arid on the
Spanish Civil War. They consist mostly
of minutes of conversations Ciano had
with foreign diplomats—Lord Perth,
Ribbentrop, Sumner Welles —and .include
a remarkable letter from Count Grandi
,describing a three-hour interview with
Chamberlain and Mr. Eden when the
British Prime Minister and his Foreign
Secretary quarrelled bitterly over the
appeasement policy: Chamberlain being
willing to accept the Italian assurances
of good faith on the question of non-
intervention in Spain and Mr. Eden de-
manding actions that would prove their
good faith. It was after this quarrel that
Mr. Eden resigned.
Since the Papers were official docu-
ments, confidential but open to inspec-
tion by Ciano’s master, the present book
inevitably lacks a good deal of the
warmth, vitality and intimacy of the
Diary, which was meant only for Ciano’s
own eyes—and for posterity—and which
had genuine literary quality. The record
of the Hitler-Mussolini talks at the
Brenner Pass and elsewhere, though of
first-class historic interest, is particularly
disappointing as a personal record. The
substance of what was said by the two
supreme villains of their time is fully
and, one presumes, faithfully recorded,
but one does not actually see and hear
them talking together. The little human'
weaknesses, the conflict of wills, the
cesses of savagery, jubilation or doubt
have all been smoothed out of the official
record. %
But, considering that this is an official
record? it is surprising how much human
drama, comic or tragic, manages to make
itself felt under the conventions of
diplomacy. There is an unforgettable
picture of Ribbentrop, “wrapped up in his
obstinate and unreasoning desire for
battle,” frightening the life out of Ciano,
who had gone to meet him at Salzburg
in August, 1939, alarmed at the rumors
of the imminent German invasion of
Poland:
From the first moments of our meeting,
von Ribbentrop did not conceal that he
considered the situation to be extremely
grave, and that, in his opinion, the clash
between Germany and Poland is inevitable.
I must add that he gives an impression of
an unreasoning, obstinate determination to
bring about this conflict I put to him
the advisability of making a gesture to
solve the crisis by normal diplomatic
negotiation. I showed him the draft com-
munique and set out patiently and at length
the thousand and one reasons which lead
us to consider this procedure the most
advisable-and most useful but, wrapped
up in his obstinate and unreasonable desire
for battle he always attempted to refuse the
gambit, repeating mechanically and without
any plausible explanation that the conflict
will be localised and that even in the event
of its becoming general the victory of Ger-
many is 100 per cent, certain.
Mussolini, as a personality, remains
rather in the background of the Papers;
he. was, of course, well to the fore in the
Diary, but Ciano was not going to write
frankly about him when there was every
likelihood that Mussolini would read what
he wrote. The Duce is present, as it
were, by implication; notably in the
negotiations leading to the Chamberlain-
Eden dispute where, toadying to their
master, Ciano and Grandi take turn
about in presenting Mussolini as a man
of rock and dynamite not at all anxious
to do anything so feeble as avoid a war
with England—which was the very thing
Mussolini did in his heart want to avoid,
at least until the distant day when Italy
would be “ready”:
“One must not believe,” I told Chamber-
lain —expressing myself in your Excellency’s
very words, since I. could not have found
any more effective —“that the Duce is more
anxious to clasp England’s hand than he
was yesterday, As before he desires an.
understanding, if that is possible; as before
he is ready to face any test, even the
hardest.”
No doubt the Duce is also present, by
implication, when Haile Selassie’s per-
sonal appearance at the League of
Nations creates “a painful impression on
the Italian Government and people.”
Even a dictator must feel a distant twinge
of discomfort when an emperor he has
driven from his throne tells tales about
him before the whole world.
The remarks on Hitler, as on Musso-
lini, are guarded but not quite so
thoroughly guarded. If the Italian phrase
has the same humorous connotations as
the English, Ciano was expressing a cer-
tain contempt for Hitler when he wrote,
at the end of his terrifying conversation
with Ribbentrop in August, 1939, that
tile details of the Polish invasion lay
“locked in the Fiihrer’s impenetrable
bosom” ; and undoubtedly, both in his
alarm and in his annoyance, he spoke for
Mussolini as well as himself at that
moment. He seems to have b.een amused
at —and possibly with —Hitler after one
of the meetings with Senor Suner to dis-
cuss the possibility of Spain’s entry into
the war:
Suner is asking for frontier rectifications
in the Pyrenees and claims French Cata-
lonia. He claims Oran and all Morocco
up to the 20th meridian. This formula
could not be accepted. Therefore there
was compiled a secret tripartite protocol
which the Fiihrer submits for the approval
of the Duce and which contains, as far as
the Spanish claims are concerned, a vague
formula. This conclusion'was reached with
great difficulty after a conversation lasting
nine hours, a conversation of such a kind
that “rather than go through it again the
Fiihrer would prefer to have three or four
teeth taken out.”
Hitler comes dramatically to life when
his armies first plunge against the
Russians and he finds that they fight
back fanatically: in his ideological objec-
tions to Communism he had made the
mistake of supposing that the Red Army
would not fight for its fatherland and he
was most disagreeably surprised:—•
The Fiihrer then explicitly admitted that,
for the first time since the beginning of
the conflict, the German military intelligence
has not functioned. It did not, in fact,
inform him that Russia had at her disposal
an excellently armed and trained army,
formed for the most part of men who are
animated by fanaticism, so that, in general,
in spite of the mixture of races, they fight
with blind obstinacy.
And, as a very human footnote to the
Fiihrer’s dismay, it is amusing to see
him beginning at this stage to yearn for
the end of the war and, as Goebbels’s
Diary also bore witness, seeking for com-
fort in dreams of fostering the arts: “He
concluded by expressing the most lively
.desire to be able to come to Italy—when
the war is over —in order to pass some
time in Florence, a; city dear to him above
all others for the harmony of its art and
its natural beauty.” Hitler grew very
fond of the arts when, because his plans
were miscarrying, his mass-murders
troubled the obscure particle of his con-
science.
Politically, the most interesting revela-
tions of the book, because they have a
direct bearing on the present world situa-
tion, are the chapters dealing with the
question of Spanish participation in the
war. As M&lcolm Muggeridge says in
his foreword, they may call for some
modification in the general attitude to
Spain ; for while it is beyond doubt that
Franco agreed in principle to Spain’s join-
ing with Italy and Germany, it is also
beyond doubt that the price he asked was
impossibly high: which leaves his real
intentions somewhat in the air. Mr.
Muggeridge comments:
When the time came to draw on those
reserves of goodwill, Franco proved recal-
citrant Mussolini had no better luck
with Franco than Hitler. The report of
their Bordighera meeting is highly diverting,
and indicates clearly that Franco was not,
at that stage, at all prepared to throw in
his lot with the Axis to the point of joining
them in war. His professions of friendship
and fidelity were as plentiful as his specific
undertakings were scarce. As was disclosed
at Nuremberg, General Jodi, in analysing
the causes of German setbacks in the war,
put as a major disaster Franco’s refusal to
agree to the transit of German troops
through Spain and to undertake the capture,
of Gibraltar. It is, without a doubt, an
ironical circumstance that, at a time when
the Russians were providing the Germans
with substantial assistance to win the war
(Ribbentrop gives some interesting details
of this in his conversation with Ciano and
Mussolini in March, 1940) Franco was
responsible for putting in their way a major
and perhaps decisive obstacle. Nonetheless
a few years later Spain was regarded as a
pariah among “free” nations and Russia
as one of the pillars of the Four Freedoms
and the Atlantic Charter. This curious
development may well puzzle future his-
torians when they put side try side Hitler’s
dealings with the Russian Government be-
tween August, 1939, and June, 1941, and
his dealings with Franco as described in
the Ciano Papers.
What the book as a whole demonstrates
is the obvious fact that in international
politics you can't trust anybody in general
and dictators in particular; which shows
with the most shining clarity when Cham-
berlain is trying to cajole the Italians to
agree to non-intervention in Spain and
Mussolini is perfectly willing to agree to
anything at all, as long as it doesn’t
prevent him keeping his troops in that
country and sending more if he thinks
it necessary. In short, Mussolini would
always agree to non-intervention as long
as it really*meant, as far as he was con-
cerned, intervention.
Since Musso, whatever his failings, was
undoubtedly an expert on the subject of
diplomatic lying, and when his vanity
allowed his commonsense to emerge for
a moment, a realist in statecraft, he may
be allowed the last word: “It is not im-
portant to find out what the Russians will
say,” he observed to Ciano in September*
1940; “it is important to know what
they will do.”
Temptation.
“People who have discovered that one
very satisfying way of spending leisure
time. is in the exercise of creative skill
will also find in this book a source. of
wise and practical guidance,” says Pro-
fessor McCrae in his foreword to Crafts
for School and Hom'e, by W. A. Stim-
son, J. T. Pretyman, R. E. Wade and
A. Broady, lecturers in Manual Arts, the
Teachers’ College, Sydney (Australasian
Publishing Co., Sydney).
And indeed, for anyone who wants to
bind books, or make cane baskets or
simple toys, here is as good a ball-to-ball
description as could be imagined. It be-
gins with a simple essay on making and
deciphering mechanical drawings; each
section is prefaced with an exhaustive
treatise on the tools and materials re-
quired—the toycraft section opens with
20 pages on planes, hammers, saws,
chisels, squares, marking-gauges, drills,
files, etc., how to use and service them —
and the text and diagrams of each toy
are equally thorough.
The first thing to decide when choos-
ing such a book to take into the home is
how much it will clutter up the house
with gadgets and things that look like
something else. An in-many-ways-excel-
lent American book, The Young Crafts-
man, a selection of hundreds of bright
ideas from the magazine “Popular
Mechanics,” has a table-lamp that looks
like a sailing-boat and is switched on
and off by its rudder, an ashtray in the
form of a wheelbarrow, bracelets made
from walnut-shells, a “Chained Dog. on
a Pie-tin” that “Forms a Novel Sundial,”
and some fretwork comer-shelves that
could be the reason for any cultivated
mother’s leaving home.
The second thing to decide is whether
the proposed jobs are possible. The boys’
desks, made from cheap and easily
obtainable plywood, are a pretty good
joke these days; and we are all familiar
with the “Drill to Use in Model Mak-
ing Assembled from Scrap Parts,” in
which the parts are the inside of an auto-
matic pencil and a drill chuck “removed
from a small pin-drill”—somewhere there
is bbund to be a set of instructions, “How
to Make a Glass-cutter from one of
Mother’s Old Diamond Rings.”
From all of which the safest refuge
is one of those completely-equipped
model construction sets which need
no additional tools or materials, and
never clutter the house up with more
than one or two wonderworking gadgets
at a time. One such plant, which has
been in operation for only two months,
has in that time been three different types
of crane, a mullock-scoop, an automatic
coal-loader, a heavy-duty factory tractor,
a racing-car, a tip-wagon, a three-floor
lift, a weighing-machine and a fire-
engine ; and at the moment of writing
is being worked as a wool-winder, one
part spreading the wool, the other, a
most ingenious collation of gears, wind-
ing it into something vaguely reminiscent
of a ball at the rate of a skein in three
minutes, and having (O wonders of subur-
ban creative genius, unheralded and un-
sung !) an automatic spreader to keep the
wool crissrcrossing onto the spool.
There is a general theory that these
construction-sets and books of what to
make are valuable, not so much to the
future craftsman as in teaching the child
to reason and think things out. But they
can also be an insidious poison.
The child interested in books on how
to make model boats can be easily dis-
couraged by an inability to work wood,
or he may give up the idea of a windmill
or a mechanical doll because he can’t get
all the parts or all the tools ; or his
father may stop buying him the construc-
tion-sets that would make the really in-
teresting models.
At about the time his intelligence £nd
his capacity have advanced far enough
to enable him to cope with such problems
he is introduced to the necessity for
earning a living and an infinitely desir-
able creature wearing a goft, woolly skirt
and a tight sweater. Putting aside the
pure art of making things for the plea-
sure of making things, he works, he
studies, he becomes valuable to industry,
a respected member of society, and in
some 10 or 20 years, even after paying
the bills and allowing for the rapacity
of the creature in the tight sweater, he
may have a pound in his pocket every
week to spend as he pleases.
It is then that the poison begins its
deadly progress through his veins, for
now he has an excuse, the demand of his
children to be entertained, added to huge
sums of money which will buy the drill
he could never afford and the soldering
apparatus his father would never let him
monkey with, the sheets of brass and
copper, the planes, the round-nosed pliers,
the brass rods, the bolts and nuts, the
tins of enamel, the Number Five
Model Builder, the sa, the 6a, the 7a—
who knows? —the 8 or even 9a.
Moreover, his powers have grown. He
is not so easily discouraged. Beginning#
soberly as a week-end craftsman, he soon
spreads out into the week, using every
minute of his own and his employers’ time
in solving for himself problems which
were resolved by the ancients as
Universal Joints or Automatic Steering,
wasting three months on a windmill, six
months on a dancing doll, nine months
on a sailing-boat, another six months on
a sailing-boat which will not have the
defects of the first sailing-boat. He
haunts the salesmen of fittings and
gadgets, he wearies experts with demands
for details of an enamel finish that will
lie perfectly even, he scours the city for
fine lawn to sew into sails; he proposes
buying a vacuum-cleaner for the sole
purpose of using it as a paint-spray; his
family withers from neglect; his em-
ployers wonder what has happened to
him; and as the hire-purchase company
'repossesses his furniture, he busies him-
self making a miniature mast for his sail-
ing-boat, in three pieces, so that it may be
entirely supported by stays.
Thus age repeats and magnifies the
vices of youth ; thus there is no childish
pleasure, however seemingly harmless,
that should not be carefully investigated;
there are few that should not be curbed.
As to the book of Crafts for School and
Home, its baskets should be more a help
than a hindrance about the home, or
might even be sold for money; its
toys are simple and solid, and dur-
ing the progress which all such toys
make to the scrap-heap, should give
children a certain amount of pleasure;
moreover, all these constructions have
the guarantee of having been taught in
the schools.
The account of bookbinding is so simple
and complete, the press and sewing-frame
so easy to make, as to make, even “Full
Leather Binding, Sewn Flexible on Raised
Cords” —and no one should be content
with less—seem within the scope of the
amateur. Thoughts come to mind of a
four-volume edition of the life and works
of Sir Thomas Browne, the Wilkin
edition, falling apart on the shelves. To
get them bound by a professional would
cost at least £1 a volume, whereas, by
doing it oneself, allowing for false starts
and a really good job, and getting the best
of materials, it should cost little more
‘than £lO or £l5. Or maybe with gold
tooling and special bookbinders’ brass
letters, and with pigskin substituted for
calf —Sir Thomas Browne deserves
nothing less than the best —it might be
done for £2O or £3O . . .
If there is anyone capable of praying
for a book-reviewer, pray now.
R. McC.
Man, Mind and Music: Frank Howes
(Seeker and Warburg). In spite of its
formidable subtitle —“Studies in the
philosophy of music and in the relations
of the art to anthropology, psychology
and sociology”—the book is pleasant and
companionable as well as thoughtful; the
author is simply thinking aloud about
music and the arts in general; what they
mean to mankind and how the mind may
be enriched by appreciating them. The
study ranges from folksongs to the
modem movement, and while most
illuminating chapters deal with the inter-
pretation of the great musical composers,
the book takes into its scope poetry :
painting and politics: on all of which
subjects the author holds the sensitive and
liberal opinions of a man of genuine
culture.


TRUTH «IN ADVERTISING”
[■hMin
Akthoivv HORDEHS’
Listen to "Writers’ Playhouse” on 2UE at
8.30 every Friday night when a
specially written play by an Australian
author will be presented.
D Shape Cushion
Code 20. 17in. x 17in. x
3Un. taper to 2|in. from back
to front. Uncovered, 29/5
Tapestry covered. Price, 39/1
m
Plough or Tractor Cushion
Uncovered. Price, each, 18/-
Reversible Cushion
Code 150. 18in. x 18in. x sin.
Uncovered. Price, ea., 25/7
Tapestry covered. Price, 42/3
Round Cushion
Code 5. Diameter, 15 inches.
Uncovered. Price, each, 12/5
Tapestry covered. Price, 18/8
Reversible Ring or
Rospital Cushion
Code 62. Uncovered, 26/4
I i
Ha
1
HI I
mm
mm
A
r?
Z>C
&
wm
m
mm 1
%
•.
4
AJVY SIZE DVNLOPILLO MADE TO ORDER
Diinlopillo Cushions
PERFECT COMFORT with ( ‘COMFITOP”
Comfitop Car
At right.
Cushion raises
body without
lifting knees.
At left.
Gives support to knees. 15in x
17in. x 4in., tapering to lin. 25/2
Solid Sheet Dunlopillo:
i 2 4 1 1| inches deep
4/- 6/- 8/- 10/- 14/- per sq. foot
Cellular Dunlopillo: 2 4 inches deep
12/9 20/- per sq. foot
Code 6. Size 16f x 14 x 4in. Uncovered, 33/10
Code 37. Size 43 x 19Jr x 4in. Uncovered, 94/4
Code 38. Size 43 x 21 x 4in. Uncovered, £5/1/6
Code 41. Size 36 x 36 x 2in. Uncovered, 91/9
Code 46. Bow front. Size 16|in. x x
2in. Price, uncovered, 19/1
Code 46. Tapestry covered. Price, each, 30/11
Code 57. Size 18 x 18 x 2in. Uncovered, 23/11
Code 57. Tapestry covered. Price, each, 37/6
Code 58. Size 19 x 19 x 3in. Uncovered, 36/6
Code. 112. 31£ x 15|- x 4in. Uncovered, 63/-
Code 142. 15f x 16f x 3fin. Uncovered, 29/4
Code 142. Tapestry covered. Price, each, 39/-
Kneeling Pads. 8 x 12 x l|in. Uncovered, 9/3
"Lightning” Jack
The Tightest Touch Tifts the Heaviest Toad
To raise load, slide notched end of handle
thrbugh pump eye, pump vertically. To
lower, withdraw handle, turn eye slowly
to left or right with handle. ‘
1 ton 2 ton 3 ton
£3/8/3 £4/14/- £6/3/3
5 ton 7 ton 10 ton
£7/13/3 £B/16/- £l3/14/-
Bumper, £6/3/-
Size .. .
Price .. .
Size ..
Price ..
ť
ŧ
SADDLERY DEPT.—LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. ’PHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3612
Wednesday, May 4, 1949
FRANKENSTEIN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Map”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H, Prior
David Adams •
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralja: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
Mew Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
NEW AUSTRALIANS.
A question on which all political parties
in Australia should be able to agree is
immigration. The perils of war and the
threat of invasion, narrowly averted,
should have convinced all but the un-
convincible of this country’s need for a
much larger population than it now sup-
ports. Seven or eight million people can-
not hope to hold for ever a continent the
size of Europe ; every year their moral
right to do so becomes more and more
open to dispute.
The population problem is the most
important that this generation of Aus-
tralians has to face; beside it all other
questions become secondary. Of what
use are improved standards of living,
elaborate social - service schemes and
plans for development if in a generation
or so the nation itself is to be submerged
in a flood its puny numbers cannot com-
bat? Patently, natural increase, despite
an upward trend in the birthrate since
1940, cannot supply the numbers. Im-
migration is the only answer, and for
the moment both the Government and the
Opposition parties seem to be in agree-
ment on that, wide apart as the poles
though they may be on other matters.
Never before, or at least never since
“Labor” became a force in Australian
politics, has this been the case. Generally
speaking, non - “Labor” Governments
have supported immigration; “Labor,”
in office and out, has opposed it. The
attitude has been that newcomers would
lower living-standards and take the bread
out of the mouths of Australian workers.
It was a shortsighted policy, completely
out of accord with fact, but it was
preached by the leaders of “Labor” and
accepted by a large proportion of the
workers of Australia. To it can be attri-
buted the unreasoning antagonism of
many Australians towards new arrivals.
The most recent exposition of what
used to be the traditional attitude of
“Labor” towards immigrants was given
by J. T. Lang at the Easter conference of
his rump “Labor” party. He brought out
all the old arguments against bringing
new citizens to this country, but his at-
tack, instead of as in former days being
levelled against “capitalist” Govern-
ments, was directed against the present
policy of official “Labor.” He said of
Mr. Calwell’s European migrants that
“like the Asiatics of nearly a century
ago, they can undermine Australian
standards... .If there is a depression....
they could be used as a means of destroy-
ing award conditions. They would be given
preference over Australian workers.”
Lang no longer represents Parliamen-
tary “Labor,” but on this subject he rep-
resents a view still widely held in the
A.L.P., and one which still claims ad-
herents high up in the party. For that
reason some credit is due to that strange
figure Arthur Calwell, loose of speech,
impetuous of action and pigheaded in
his refusal to acknowledge mistakes, for
having induced Cabinet to accept so
revolutionary a change in party policy
as is presented by his immigration pro-
gramme.
On the latest estimate 140,000 migrants
will reach Australia this year. The figure
is a high one, and Mr. Lang is not alone
in considering it above the capacity of
the country to absorb. Mr. CalwelPs
colleague and erstwhile bosom friend,
Mr. Ward, urged a few months ago that
no immigrants should be admitted until
every Australian was suitably housed.
Last week J.T.L. echoed his former
satellite.
This is insularity and shortsightedness
at their worst. One of the chief factors
in the housing lag is shortage of labor
m the building industry and in the in-
dustries which supply the materials for
home-construction. If migration is to
wait upon housing the New Australians
will never arrive. Admittedly the hous-
ing problem is one which causes distress
to thousands of our people, and the in-
flux of migrants may temporarily aggra-
vate the position, but this is only one of
the problems that must be faced if we
are to secure the increased numbers vital
to the continued existence of a white
Australia. To seek to avoid the problem
hy putting an iron curtain around our
shores is nothing other than defeatism,
and to suggest that the country cannot
absorb immigrants in large numbers is
to ignore history. During the gold-rush
of a century ago the population of Vic-
toria alone increased from 76,000 in 1850
to 364,000 in 1855 —a fivefold increase in
five years. Certainly for a considerable
time much of the influx was accommo-
dated in tent-towns and ramshackle huts,
but in those days home-seekers had none
of the advantages of organised industry
available to the building-trade of today.
After a few years, when the rush died
down, many of the newcomers departed,
but the net gain to Victoria was sufficient
to take the population of that State above
that of New South Wales, a position
which was not reversed again for 40
years. The problem of housing and
assimilating the newcomers was solved by
Victoria, as it will be solved in this
generation by Australia.
For immigration on a truly grand scale
it is necessary to turn to America. During
the 100 years 1840-1940 more than
36,000,000 people crossed the Atlantic
to settle in the United States. The peak
year was 1907, when 1,285,000 people
were admitted, and in the 10-year period
1905-14 the total number of new citizens
accepted by Uncle Sam was 10,122,600.
Mr. Lang has also protested against the
high proportion of Europeans among the
new arrivals —a complaint that has also
been voiced by some Opposition mem-
bers. The criticism is another instance of
refusing to face facts. The make-up of
our population is predominantly British,
and it should be the aim of any Govern-
ment that it should remain so ; but there
are other considerations. Firstly there is
the moral obligation of a half-empty land
to take a proportion of Europe’s “dis-
placed persons”—with commonsense safe-
guards against being made a dumping-
ground for human dibris —and, secondly,
the fact that Britain, without bleeding
herself dry, cannot supply migrants in
numbers adequate for our needs.
“Go into an industry where these
newcomers have been introduced,” says
Mr. Lang. “Watch how they segregate
themselves from the Australian workers.”
To what extent are the newcomers to
blame for this, and to what extent the
native-born who hold the same views as
Mr. Lang—views inculcated in them by
decades of “Labor” antagonism to im-
migration? Although the development of
this continent has been almost entirely
the work of people of British stock, there
have been notable exceptions. South
Australians would not deny their debt to
the German farmers who pioneered the
rich lands of the Adelaide Hills country
and did much to establish the State’s wine
industry. That their descendants were
assimilated into the population and be-
came good Australians the lists of names
on the war memorials in the so-called
German districts of South Australia will
testify. Had the “no-foreigners” rule
been applied in the past Australia would
certainly have been the loser. There
would have been no Australian Von
Mueller, for whom a commemorative
postage-stamp was issued last year; no
Henry Lawson ; no Hans Heysen. There
would have been no Cilentos, Fiaschis,
Woinarskis, Seppelts, Gramps, Wunder-
lichs, Delprats. The parents of Starce-
vich, V.C., would never have come to
Australia. The list could be continued
indefinitely.
Opposition to European immigration
today is as unreasoning and as unjustified
as opposition to British immigration was
a generation ago ; and it springs from the
same source —a lack of faith in the ability
of the native-born to work as hard as the
newcomers. It is a defeatist attitude, and
any validity the “lowered-standardi-of-
living” argument ever had vanished with
the establishment of the Arbitration
Court.
The immediate task is to get the New
Australians here. After that the job of
seeing that they are assimilated is not one
for the Government alone; it is a duty
in which all Old Australians must play
their part. '
Asia and the A.L.P.
At a time when Asia is in chaos and
the British and Australian interests have
been sold out there almost completely
by the Attlee and Chifley-Evatt Govern-
ments, Mr. A. A. Calwell, Minister for
Immigration and Information, has an-
nounced that “Australia, geographically,
is in Asia.”
It is not an original thought. It was
first propagated 23 years ago by Messrs.
Beasley and Garden as heads of the
N. S. Wales Labor Council when that
body was a section of the Red Interna-
tional of Labor Unions. It was first put
forward in a pamphlet called “Hands
Off China!” devoted by our present High
Commissioner in London and his Labor
Council executive to the thesis that Aus-
tralian and British workers had an inter-
est in kicking Britain out of Asia because
“British manufacturers were moving their
factories to India and China, where they
could use slave-labor” free of charge,
the labor of “children bought as under
chattel slavery, herded in barracks with-
out even beds or bedclothing of any
kind,” so that “the drones of England
and their dogs might revel in luxury”
while “millions of workers of England
and their children are slowly starving
to death.”
Present events in China are mainly part
of a Comintern plan, outlined by Dmitrov
in 1935 in instructions which form one
of the two main textbooks today of
Communist teaching in Australia —“to
free China from the imperialist robbers
and their Chinese henchmen.”
Mr. Holloway also antedated Mr. Cal-
well in the great Austral-Asian discovery ;
he was the boon collaborator of Mr. Gar-
den in steering the A.C.T.U. into the
Communist-organised Pan-Pacific Trade-
union Secretariat, a body which was
chiefly devoted to the cause of throwing
the British out of everything they held in
the Eastern world, thus forwarding “the
World Revolution of Lenin, and Stalin.”
Dr. Evatt also has some claims to patent
which rank before Mr. Calwell’s, along
with the real Government of the country,
the Communist trade-union leaders who
place the interests of the Indernesian
brethren before those of White Australia
(“White Australia Chauvinism”).
Mr. Chifley has just visited London.
He is receiving from the Press the credit
for having “dominated” the conference
at which he and his fellow Prime Minis-
ters completed some of the work on the
future of India which began when Pandit
Nehru professed a close affinity for
Marxism (which he prefers not to men-
tion these days.) They have all agreed,
without consultation with their Parlia-
ments, or any mandate or semblance of
mandate from their electors, that allegi-
ance to the Crown, the very backbone of
loyalty to the British Commonwealth, is
no longer necessary to membership.
To say the least of it, the new theories
of Empire or Commonwealth, when
linked with the assumption that Aus-
tralia has ceased to be a continent and
is merely an island anchored to Asia and
its seething policies and Communist over-
lordship, are alarming when the forces
at work behind the scenes are considered.
Though “Labor” has done its best
to keep it a secret, the very objective
of the Australian Labor party —socialisa-
tion of industry—was framed by a com-
mittee whose two leading members,
Messrs. Scullin and Curtin, adopted it
as part of a conception which involved
the abandonment of the British system
and the institution of republicanism or
world Communism.
Mr. Scullin openly advocated, and had
embodied in the platform of the Labor
party, the conception of government not
by Parliament but by a Supreme Eco-
nomic Council.
It was upon the basis of the Supreme
Economic Council plan that Mr. Chifley,
successor of these two Prime Ministers,
first stood for Parliament in 1925, and it
is toward their objective that these people
appear to be working at present —towards
a position in which, through inclusion of
Australia within the sphere of Asia, our
policies shall become subject to the
dominating weight of official opinion in
Asia: an Asia which, under the present
trends, must inevitably be controlled from
Moscow, whose clutching hand, helped
and guided by fifth-columns, is gradually
gaining mastery over every Asiatic
country right down to Australian shores.
The position would be utterly fantastic
were it not for the indications which
Mr. Chifley himself has given that he
believes that Communism is a “political
philosophy,” a surge of the ages like
Christianity (to which his Labor Minister,
a former president of the Federal A.L.P.,
has compared the bloody creed of Stalin)
which has arisen from the consciousness
of the oppressed peoples of the whole
world and which can be halted “if people
are contented and well-fed and enjoying
decent living-conditions,” which he pre-
sumably thinks they are not under his
own Government.
And to what extent is this “Labor”
Government its own master? Its sub-
servience to the trade-union movement,
Communist-controlled and otherwise, is
worth investigating.
Mr. Curtin, at the Federal A.L.P. Con-
ference in 1939, which deliberately ac-
cepted into its ranks a N. S. Wales A.L.P.
branch which it knew to be almost
entirely controlled by open Communists,
declared that “the trade-unions are pre-
dominant in the movement,” and that
their rulings as to what should constitute
the party and its policy should be
accepted by its executives.
There are a dozen instances of the
working of the present system of “govern-
ment” under which Prime Ministers are
the servile instruments of secret juntas
which have no statutory backing, no re-
sponsibility to anybody except themselves
and the unions and disjointed little
coteries which call themselves A.L.P.
branches.
The Federal Conference of 1945, for
instance, saw Mr. Chifley, cap in hand,
asking the delegates to tell the Federal
Government what it wanted done in
respect of the defence of the nation. At
the same conference he was given orders
as to the course the Government was to
follow in dealing with banking—orders
which he concealed from the electors at
the 1946 election and then proceeded to
carry out to the letter.
Probably, however, the example which
best fits in with what is happening in
London and with Mr. Colwell’s bold
crystallisation of Dr. Evatt’s prudently
uncrystallised theory that this country is
part of Asia comes from the special con-
ference of the Federal A.L.P. held on
November 16, 1942. The bitterly-fought
Kokoda-Trail-Buna campaign was going
on, a campaign which it was considered
was for a heavy stake. The Prime Minis-
ter, under pressure from the Americans
a °d others, was desirous of sending some
militia troops outside Australia, not to
pursue the Japanese to their lair along
with American and British conscripts, but
mainly to do duty south of the Equator
and as far from home as New Caledonia.
Half-way through the A.L.P. Con-
ference proceedings he rose and sought
to move—he was then the Prime
Minister that “the Government be
authorised [yes, authorised] to add to the
Defence Act, in the definition of the
Commonwealth which at present defines
the territories to which this Act extends,
the following words—‘and such other
territories in the S.-West Pacific area as
the Governor-General proclaims as being
territories associated with the defence of
Australia’.”
The Commonwealth Government’s de-
cision on this vital matter was held up
from November 16, 1942, to January 4,
1943, at a crucial period of the war, while
the matter was considered by State
trade-union executives. Communist repre-
sentatives were prominent in the “discus-
sions.” The amendment was vetoed by
Victorian and Queensland branches. And
when the Prime Minister had to come be-
fore the conference abjectly again and
make his plea, Mr. R. A. King—who, in
1938, was a May Day delegate to Moscow
moved “that so much of the standing
orders be suspended to allow him twenty
minutes” to put his case.
Had this irresponsible gathering, acting
behind closed doors, decided that the
militia should remain at home, it would
have remained at home. The Prime
Minister and his Treasurer, Mr. Chifley,
would have accepted its orders.
There is plenty of room to wonder how
much of the “government” is carried on
in this way today, whether the Govern-
ment retains any free will at all, and
where its Asian policy is really comingfrom.
Student Bodies.
“It seems, Arthur,” said the Minister for
Health to the Minister for Immigration,
“that the Sydney University Medical
School is short of bodies for dissection.”
“I don’t know why you bring it up
to me,” Immigration replied. “It’s your de-
partment, Mac. All this ‘social welfare’
and ‘free medicine’ —if it ends up with 1
nobody dying and the doctors cheated
of bodies and the Treasury cheated of
death-duties, that’s your funeral.”
* Health shuddered. “If you’d been vivi-
sected in life by the 8.M.A.,” he said,
“you wouldn’t speak so lightly of funerals.
I was merely going to put it to you, as
Australia’s foremost body-snatcher”
“Body-snatcher! ”
“Minister for Immigration, then,”
Health said. “What I mean is—among
this quarter of a million migrants you’re
bringing out, who’d notice if you rang in
a few dead ones?”
“You might as well ask me to in
Sergeant Gamboa,” Arthur replied. “But
the lying Press they’re always saying
our Commonwealth departments are over-
staffed . . . Why not offer the university
the pick of the Civil Service?”
“Alive or dead?” Health asked.
“How would you know?” Immigration
said. “Take, for instance, my other de-
partment —Information”
“Truly a noble sacrifice for you to
offer,” the Senator replied, “but I’m
afraid the University would want com-
plete bodies, brains and all.”
“Then what about the Taxation De-
partment?”
“They are still teaching University
students,” replied the Minister for
Health, “that the normal citizen cannot
function without a heart.”
“Then what about the Department of
Reconstruction?” asked Arthur. “The
Minister’s a Dedman to start with.”
“I don’t think they’d be satisfied just
with skeletons,” the Senator said. “Or
blueprints either.”
“Well, I don’t see that there’s any
way I can help you,” Immigration said,
“unless something comes of this N.S.W.
Trades and Labor Council’s inquiry into
the Press.”
“You think it may result in bodies?/*
asked the Minister for Health.
“There’s a few I wouldn’t mind dis-
secting myself,” said Arthur, Minister for
Immigration and Information, “but if
there are any over I’ll pass them on jto
the University of Sydney.”


PLAIN ENGLISH
Science and Socialism.
The Science and Industry Research Act
of 1949, relating to the establishment
of the Commonwealth Scientific and In-
dustrial Research Organisation, marks the
beginning of a new era in the history
of scientific research in Australia, which
will in future proceed, as far as the
country’s foremost scientific-research
organisation is concerned, by political
direction.
Whilst no one could have cavilled at
the Commonwealth Government’s earlier
decision to relieve the C.S.I.R. of research
connected with defence, the decision to
cancel completely its independent status
and to make it the appendage of one
or more Commonwealth departments is
an attack on the freedom of thought,
and part of the totalitarian policy delib-
erately pursued by the present Govern-
ment, the ultimate fulfilment of which
depends on “Labor’s” return at the next
election. “Control” is the Socialists’
watchword. Control of banks, of radio,
of doctors, dentists and chemists, of the
Press and now of science and shortly
of education—all this in their day’s work
for the Socialistic “cause.”
The direction of the far-reaching
scientific work of the C.5.1.R., extending
as it does over all States, now gives
further opportunity for that subtle infiltra-
tion of Commonwealth officials into State
preserves as part of the policy of the
Federal Government in its progress to-
wards the unification it hopes to achieve
under Socialism. Another instance of
Canberra “Labor’s” passion for control
which does not appear to be so
well known —by reason of its innocent
fa9ade —is the superfluous and very ambi-
tious Bureau of Geology, Geophysics and
Mineral Resources which grew out of a
little coterie engaged on war work and
which succeeded in perpetuating them-
selves with the blessing of the Ministry of
Post-war Reconstruction.
Every State of the Commonwealth has
a long-established Department of Mines,
and every State has control of its mineral
resources and is responsible for their de-
velopment, whilst the C.S.I.R. has several
well-organised sections dealing with Aus-
tralian mining problems. Ignoring all
this, without an Act of Parliament the
Department of Post-war Reconstruction
set up this new bureau, which ip the first
two years of its existence advertised for
over 120 geologists and geophysicists, or
double the number of technical officers
employed by all the State departments,
whose staffs are being tempted by higher
salaries. As the Commonwealth has con-
trol only of the Northern Territory
where the officers of the bureau can
operate without by your leave, the bureau
is breaking its neck to induce the States
to allow its men to enter their domains
ostensibly in order to give them employ-
ment, but those responsible for the
bureau have made no attempt to work
out a comprehensive scheme of collabora-
tion with the various State Departments
of Mines. Instead, the bureau is claiming
a monopoly in one activity after another
—oil search, geophysics, etc. And so the
Federal Government pursues its course
of interference with individual initiative,
liberty and its policy of covert and overt
invasion of State authorities.
The pending proclamation of the
Science and Industry Research Act is a
further step towards national socialism,
which, in its ultimate form, is just as un-
acceptable as Communism to our tradi-
tional way of life; but few Australians
realise what little lies between them and
a totalitarian regime. The forthcoming
elections will be fought on the socialisa-
tion issue, and the time is long overdue
for scientists, professional and middle
people in the community who value their
few remaining liberties to resist the onset
of socialism and the Government’s policy
of exploiting their services and resources
for purposes which have never been
put clearly and honestly before the
people.
A Matter of Relief.
In a speech to a Parramatta (N.S.W.)
audience, in which he sought to explain
his “free”-medicine scheme, Senator
McKenna said he believed “that there
would be many doctors who would be
relieved to have the matter decided for
them.” Probably there would, just as
there are many people in the community
who would like to have other matters
decided for them—people who are too
lazy to think, too apathetic to take an
interest in public questions. These are
the people on whom the Socialists rely
more than upon their real converts.
They can be found in all walks of life,
but their outlook is the same. The people
who don’t mind standing in queues; the
people who accept it as their proper lot
to be pushed around; the people to
whom the Government is some all-
powerful and omniscient entity which
can dole out money, jobs and favors as
it thinks fit.
Socialism welcomes such people, for
on their kind it rises to totalitarian power.
There is no future for Socialism in a
community where there is a strong sense
of individual freedom, where enterprise
and initiative are characteristic of the
population and where people question
the acts of their rulers and are capable
of judging the wisdom or unwisdom of
the laws they pass.
No doubt not only Senator McKenna,
but every member of the Chifley Govern-
ment, as well as their cavalcade of ad-
visers with a vested interest in Socialism,
would be pleased to believe that there
are many doctors “who would be relieved
to have the matter decided for them.”
They would be even more pleased if all
the doctors adopted the same attitude.
The wishful thought is not confined to
the “free”~medicine plan. Mr. Chifley’s
whole political philosophy is based on
the assumption that electors have short
memories, which is only another way of
saying that they don’t want to think —
or, at any rate, not for long—and are
glad to have a beneficent, all-wise
Government to do their thinking for
them. Fortunately for those in Aus-
tralia who still place some value upon
individual freedom there are signs that
the Socialists have overestimated the
numbers of those who share their belief
that they are all-wise. The 1946 election
which Mr. Chifley took as a go-ahead
signal for socialisation-without-end was
not, as he thought, the final word on the
subject. The defeat of his Powers
Referendum was one warning of that;
the outcry which followed his Bank Grab
Act and which brought down the Vic-
torian “Labor” Government was another.
Towards the end of this year will come
the final test, and Mr. Menzies was quite
right in saying that the only issue will
be whether or not Socialism is to become
our way of life. If the majority of elec-
tors really want the Socialists, the plan-
ners, the bureaucrats, to do their thinking
for them —if they really want to be pushed
around for ever in return for a dubious
measure of security—the Socialists will
win.’ Otherwise they won’t.
Sydney Harbor Bridge.
Pride of “Our Harbor,” and a magnifi-
cent structure without a doubt, erected
after a generation or so of discussion
that sought a means of speeding-up
transport between the south and north
sides of the water, the Sydney Harbor
Bridge is becoming the perfect symbol of
Socialism and bureaucracy in our time.
Service to the 1,500,000 Sydney popula-
tion has become secondary. The idea that
the bridge should be put to its utmost
use in furthering the objective of re-
moving the delay to trans-harbor traffic
now seems almost “reactionary” in
the eyes of the Socialists and bureaucrats.
Even if crossing the harbor becomes as
slow as in the days of the vehicular
ferries the bureaucracy is unlikely to be
shaken from its views in the slightest. In
order to keep somebody in a job, to
collect a half-million in tolls each year
at a cost of endless waste of time and
money to motor-vehicle owners, Sydney
is denied the normal efficiency of this
£ 10-million “asset.”
It is indeed doubtful whether the
Harbor Bridge, utilised to its best
advantage, could now cope adequately
with the flow of traffic across it. At peak
hours it perhaps could take no more
trains than at present—and the conges-
tion in peak-hour trains is terrific. May-
be the tramline could be removed and
the railway-line quadrupled—involving
the laying of another set from Milson’s
Point to Hornsby, But it is certain that
if the toll-barriers were removed the
flow of peak-hour motor traffic would be
speeded up, the risk of accidents reduced,
and the petrol saved would be consider-
able. As it is, any day thousands of
cars may be held up for many minutes
as a result of a smash that is entirely
the result of sudden stopping, swerving
or jockeying for position as the toll-
gates are approached.
And the Federal-“ Labor” bureaucratic
touch becomes very evident in the
symbolism of the bridge.
Mr. Chifley collects many, many mil-
lions a year in petrol-tax from motorists
that goes into Consolidated Revenue.
Here is a case where half a million a year
from petrol-taxation would be put to a
most equitable use and the monstrous
morning and evening congestion at
Sydney’s northern gateway dispersed. But
Canberra “Labor” cares nought for the
original grounds for the levying of the
petrol-tax or its own national obligations.
State roads and bridges will benefit by
the merest smell from the huge petrol-tax
revenue collected. *
Who Wants It?
The Socialist —especially the Parliamen-
tary Socialist, who, for the most part, is
merely a politician blindly following his
party leaders —seldom changes his theories
or outlook, no matter what evidence is
produced against Socialism. So when Colin
Clark, Economic Adviser to the Queens-
land Government, turned up in London
the other week, cast a critical eye on
British taxation and British Socialist
legislation, and openly doubted whether
social services were as popular with the
people as the Socialists believe them to
be, Socialists regarded him merely as
a nuisance. Others will take a different
view.
Mr. Clark’s opinion is important be-
cause it was delivered soon after his
arrival in Britain, and it is reasonable to
assume that he had a good look at taxa-
tion and social services in his own coun-
try beforehand. Anyhow, he told London
“Economist” that if British taxation con-
tinues at its present rate it will lead to
renewed inflation. As an economist, Mr.
Clark some time ago held that a quarter
of the national income is the practical
limit of taxation. When it goes beyond
that, as it does in both Britain and Aus-
tralia, it is, in Mr. Clark’s words, “likely
to prove uncollectable without a substan-
tial rise in money incomes, which would
leave real incomes unchanged or re-
duced.”
Relevant figures, in round sums:
National income, U.K. .. £10,900 million
Taxation, U.K £3,633 million
National income, Aust. .. £1,635 million
Taxation, Aust £458 million
(The figures for Australian taxation don’t
include State taxation.)
In Britain, as in Australia, the Socialist
Government says taxes cannot be further
(Continued foot of page 7.)
IT’LL TAKE GETTING USED TO.
“I’ve made the bed, John, but you’ve got to lie in it, too.”


07*TW
For your throat’s sake
CRAVENA"
Always reliable
Obtainable in
10’s & 20’s
8905 E-R
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
reduced because of Government expendi-
ture, particularly on social services. Mr.
Clark’s answer, which sounds strangely
like the answer a good many of us would
give, is that “the elector isn’t so enamored
of social services as politicians make him
out to be.”
Tell the elector that in future he will be
allowed to keep most of what he earns and
get his beer and tobacco at cost price;
help large families; give social assistance
to the genuinely indigent; and I think, in
these circumstances, the elector would be
quite ready to forgo all other social ser-
vices and make his own provision for his
family’s needs.
Probably true. The difference between
the British elector and his Australian
counterpart, however, is that the Aus-
tralian is in an election year and can
expect taxation cuts as election bribes.
But if he is bought for Socialism with
his own money he’s a bigger chump than
he looks.
POLITICAL POINTS
The formula by which India is to be
regarded as one of the family right
through the seven-course dinner, but be-
comes a non-paying guest when the time
arrives to clear away the dishes and
wash up, has been hailed as a triumph
of the British genius for compromise. It
is hard to see where the compromise
comes in. The term implies a settlement
by mutual concession ; Pandit Nehru has
made no concession. Before the Prime
Ministers’ Conference opened he let it
be known that he wanted a solution which
would enable India to become a sovereign
republic, without losing the advantages
of Commonwealth membership. He got it.
The King conceded his title ; Britain con-
ceded whatever shreds of control still
remained over India’s foreign policy ; the
white Dominions apparently conceded the
word British; India conceded nothing.
Proceedings of the conference were
secret, and secret, too, were the inner
thoughts of the men around the table ; but
it is impossible to ignore the fact that
Britain’s representative was the leader of
a party which has always had a guilt-
complex over the words British Empire
and which lately seems to have transferred
the same feelings to British Common-
wealth ; that South Africa’s Dr. Malan
has all his life been opposed to British
rule, and that our own Prime Minister,
despite his recent utterances, held the
British tie so lightly that he caused to be
appointed as King’s deputy a State
Premier of his own political persuasion.
Still, what’s done can’t be undone.
India’s relinquisjiment of the obligations
of Commonwealth membership had
apparently become inevitable. It is per-
haps not too much to hope that her re-
tention of the privileges may in the course
of time lead her to reassume some of the
, responsibilities.
After a brief rest in Tasmania, Opposi-
tion-leader Menzies resumed on Monday
his mission of taking Liberalism to the
people. Before the week is out he will
have covered the greater part of Vic-
toria and addressed meetings in places as
far apart as Wonthaggi and Mildura. If
Victorian workers turn out to hear him
as those'of N. S. Wales did, Chifley will
need to send a better man than “Fixer”
Ashley to follow his trail.
N. S. Wales Trades and Labor Council
debarred Communists from marching as
such in the May Day mooch and in-
spected slogans and banners for sub-
versive signs. There was no ban on the
Red flag, this being, so the assistant secre-
tary of the council explained, the “symbol
of international Labor unity.”
Any doubt whether the new Hanlon
meat bill empowers the Queensland
Labor Government to seize privately-
owned cattle has been dispelled in a letter
sent to protesting graziers by the Hanlon
Minister for Agriculture, a Mr. Collins.
He has assured them that “only when
cattle are not forthcoming in sufficient
quantity to provide adequate meat sup-
plies for the people” would the Queens-
land Meat Board be called upon to
“acquire” stock. The Government has
only to decide that such a state has arisen
—and who could contradict it? —to grab
stock. These “Labor” fellows are
peculiarly apt at making laws to “acquire”
other people’s property.
An effigy of Mr. Chifley is to be placed
in Madame Tussaud’s waxworks as one
of a set of Dominion Prime Ministers.
It will be ready in three months and will
replace the Menzies likeness. If they
want to keep the show up to date they
had better not melt Menzies down yet
awhile.
The McGirr Government showed a de-
ficit of £1,768,276 for the first nine
months of 1948-49. This doesn’t neces-
sarily mean being down heavily at the
end of the year, though the McGirrs
budgeted for a deficit of close on
£lOO,OOO for the year. The notorious rail,
tram and bus figures show a surplus so
far, but the debt charges against them
aren’t bunged in until June. Mr.
Sheahan, Acting Minister for Transport,
somewhat joyfully announced that
“special” trams and buses to the Royal
Easter Show brought in £24,712, but he
didn’t say that scandalous fares of 9d.
single and Is. 3d. return were imposed for
a journey that wouldn’t cost more than
lOd. return any other time. Making the
workers pay seems to be the motto of
the McGirrs.
There was a noticeable difference in
the atmosphere of Mr. Chifley’s latest
visit to England and previous ones. On
his first adventure in the Old Dart he dis-
tinguished himself socially only by turn-
ing up three-quarters of an hour late for
an appointment with the King. This
time he seems to have been matey with
all the Royal Family and courteous and
expansive to everybody. In fact, he
showed himself very much like Words-
worth’s famous parrot:
Arch, volatile, a sportive bird
By social glee inspired;
Ambitious to be seen or heard
And pleased to be admired.
Possibly the election is going to be sooner
than Mr. Holloway has suggested and the
P.M. has been making a practice run.
A few years ago E. J, Ward was oppos-
ing immigration until everybody in Aus-
tralia had a job ; now he opposes it until
everybody has a house. If he lasts long
enough he’ll be able to oppose it until
everybody has a Government job.
Chairman Bell, of the Melbourne Tram
Board, expressed the delight of a child
with a new toy at the assembling of the
first “silent” car made at the Newport
workshops, and went so far as to prophesy
that in a few years the trams would all
be silent. The trams may be; but the
howls of the congested citizens travelling
at morning and evening peak-times on
his machines of torture will still be
heard half a section away.
When the recently-elected new mem-
bers were sworn-in last Wednesday
“Labor” gained control of N. S. Wales
Legislative Council for the first time in 16
years. Mr. McGirr now faces the prob-
lem of making up his mind whether he
was really in earnest about the bills the
old Council knocked back or just
shadow-sparring with the “forces of re-
action.” The Council Abolition Bill, for
instance —will “Labor” M.L.Cs. be as
keen to vote themselves out of existence
now they have the power to do so as
they were when they knew they could
rely on the Opposition to save them
from extinction?
Commissar Elliott, of the Seamen’s
Union, looked around him last week and
surveyed the doings of his brothers-in-
Stalin —McPhiilips in jail for contempt
of court; waterside bosses Healy and
Roach doing their best to get themselves
thrown off the Stevedoring Commission ;
Comrade Wright, of the Sheet Metal
Workers’ Union, cited for contempt for
allegedly describing the Conciliation
Commissioners as “a lot of strike-
breakers” ; Sharkey and the Westralian
Healy awaiting trial for seditious utter-
ances ; and Ernie Thornton in Moscow
outdoing the local lickspittles in slobber-
ing over Stalin’s boots. Elliott didn’t
like the idea of being left out in the
cold, so he turned on poor old Hamilton
Knight, who gave up a comfy seat in
the N. S. Wales Assembly to become a
streamlined Conciliation Commissioner
—and called him a “deliberate liar.”
Hammy was quite upset, though he really
had no cause to be; from some sources
an insult can be a compliment,
“He-Ne” is intrigued:
Under the Pollard wheat-“stabilisation”
scheme, which has to wait until July 1 before
it can swing into the International Wheat
Agreement, which may or may not be ratified
by the U.S. Senate and a two-thirds majority
of the signatory 41 nations, the Australian
wheat States have to set up Wheat Committees.
The one in N.S.W. is to have four growers and
three Government nominees. It was hoped the
Wheatgrowers’ Union, friendly towards the
Pollard scheme, would elect the grower rep-
resentatives. But all four of them came from
the Farmers and Settlers’ Association, which
fought the Pollard scheme tooth and nail and
opposes the International Agreement in its
present form. The McGirrs, with Wheat-
growers’ Union men, could have controlled
N.S.W. wheat. With F. and S.A. men, one
of whom is H. S. Roberton, the Pollard
scheme’s doughtiest opponent, it may be a
different story. At least some of the Wheat
Committee meetings will be mighty interesting.
The poll shows that, in these matters, farmers
are as lackadaisical as the rest of us —of 28,000
ballot-papers sent out, less than half returned
with votes.
Belatedly the A.C.T.U. has decided “to
relieve Mr. L. J. McPhiilips of his position
as trade-union advocate in the basic-wage
claim before the Arbitration Court,” The
decision was not due to a sudden rush of
morality to the head ; it was just that the
emergency committee recommended that
it would be “inexpedient” for him to con-
tinue as advocate.
Brief extract from transcript of Privy
Council proceedings in the Bank Case:
Lord Morton : I would like to ask you this;
perhaps you can answer it tomorrow if you
prefer. May I take something which is
obviously a business, such as the buying and
selling of dried fruit? As I understand it, you
would say, would you not, that the State could
set up a Commonwealth dried-fruit society and
say that nobody else shall buy or sell dried
fruit in Australia except that institution? That
is right so far?
Dr. Evatt: Yes, My Lord. I answered that
the other day.
Lord Morton: I was not quite sure of the
answer.
Dr. Evatt: The answer was Yes, but that
one would assume that there would be circum-
stances further than that to deal with.
Lord Morton: That may be, but I am
trying to get at how far the argument goes,
not with a view to attacking it, but just to
know what the argument is. That is the first
thing, and the answer is Yes.
Dr. Evatt: Yes.
Lord Morton: If that i$ so, then I suppose
the State could set up a series of corporations
to carry out every branch of trade, and it could
say in each case that branch of trade shall be
only carried out by that corporation.
Dr. Evatt: It is quite possible, I think it
could.
Lord Morton : So that the result would be —
and again it may be perfectly all right—that
no private individual could engage in any of
these trades in Australia.
Dr. Evatt: Quite possibly.
“Labor” in Opposition was a great ad-
vocate of Government railways placing
all their ofders in Australia. “Labor” in
office is finding itself forced to buy
wherever it can —in Britain, France, even
Japan. Latest outside orders are 25 loco-
motives to be built in Britain for the
McGirrs and 10,000 tons of rails and fish-
plates from the Old Dart for the
Hanlon Government at a cost something
like £200,000 above the Australian pro-
duct. Necessity is the driver —the local
industry cannot meet the demand —but
the real fault lies at “Labor’s” own door,
in its failure to meet the coal require-
ments of the steelworks.
Just what passed between Malcolm
MacDonald and our Prime Minister in
Singapore last year? On the latest trip
Mr; Fraser accepted an invitation to
spend a day in Johore ; Mr. Chifley de-
clined. On the way home —again delayed
in Singapore by plane trouble—he was
shown the sights, but it was an Australian,
Claude Massey, who did the showing.
Mr. J. A. Ferguson, M.L.C., is a great
believer in arbitration —he says so —but
he does not think Comrade Wright’s
reference to the Conciliation Commis-
sioners as “strikebreakers” merits prose-
cution. His reason:
There’s not one bona fide trade-union
official who hasn’t at some time or another
said worse at a Labor Council meeting, and
who doesn’t at the present time think much
worse than was stated by Mr. Wright.
The great election-year N.T. meat
scheme which, according to the Canberra
“Labor” picture, is to dot the north with
meatworks, lace it with roads and rail-
ways and smother it with herds of cattle
is steadily increasing in estimated cost to
the taxpayer. Minister for the Interior
Johnson now has it up to £5O million.
Despite Britain’s agreement to buy all
our surplus meat for the next 15 years—
a gesture from one Socialist Government
to another —the thing is like a barber’s
cat: all bluff and wind.
The Prices Ministers refused to increase
the price of petrol to motor-users, though
they upped aviation spirit by Id. a gallon
and some lubricating oils by 3d. The
usual “official” was quick to announce
that it “saved” motorists an annual £3l
million —typical election-year talk. It
would sound a lot better if the Federal
crowd either cut down on petrol tax or
devoted the money got therefrom to its
proper purpose —building and mainten-
ance of roads.
Queensland workers will not be allowed
to choose their “Labor” candidates for
the Federal election. Plebiscites of A.L.P.
groups have been abandoned and candi-
dates will be selected by the Central
Executive of the State A.L.P. The ex-
cuse: Federal electoral-division rolls are
not available, and plebiscite voters can-
not prove they are qualified to vote. If
the excuse is a good one, what has the
Federal “Labor” Government got to say
for not having the rolls ready?
Some of the whingers in the N.S.W.
“Labor” movement have been complain-
ing that too much coal is being sent to
the other States while Sydney is being
inflicted with blackouts. The time may
not be far distant when the Ma State
will have no inter-State market left. Vic-
toria has found it necessary to buy
220,000 tons from Britain and India and
is taking 30,000 tons from the Callide
field in Queensland. This is a temporary
expedient caused by shortage of deliveries f
from*N. S. Wales, but a speeding-up of
the Morwell project means that briquetted
brown coal to the tune of 1,350,000 tons
a year will be available by 1952.
The A.C.T.U. is advocating the com-
plete co-ordination of air, rail and sea
transport, and has discussed the matter
with Mr. Ward. The pride of East Syd-
ney told them that the main difficulty
was the divided authority between the
States and the Commonwealth, and that
this could be solved “either by a refer-
endum extending Commonwealth powers
into the field of transport, or by the States
voluntarily relinquishing control.” There
is about as much chance of the States
handing over their transport powers to
Eddie as there is of the electors voting
in favor of such a proposal.
x Britain’s relationship to India in three
acts: —•
Act 1. Mother.
Act 2. Sister.
Act 3. De facto wife.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLESINKS”
“Cauboy”: A frantic female friend
approached me in the foyer at an interval
of the swearing in “Rusty Bugles” at the
King’s, Melbourne, and screamed that
the playwright, the producer, the actors,
and everybody else connected with the
opus, including the Government that
permitted the showing, should be
prosecuted for using obscene, indecent
and blasphemous language. She was a
little out of date on the legal aspect.
None of the words I heard was indict-
able, and as far as the great Australian
adjective is concerned it is several years
since Justice Halse Rogers gave a ruling
on it in Sydney divorce proceedings,
where a woman advanced its frequent
use by her partner as grounds for a
decree nisi. “The word ‘bloody’ is so
common in modern parlance,” said
his Honor, “that it is not regarded as
swearing.”
* * * *
“Becks”: According to the British
newspaper “The People,” Irishmen in
America and elsewhere are hunting
through old papers searching for dollar-
bills printed in U.S. about 80 years ago
in the name of the “Irish Republic” and
bearing the statement “Can be redeemed
at 6 per cent, per annum six months after
.the acknowledgment of the Irish nation.”
The paper claims that on that basis a
20-dollar bill would now be worth more
than £5OO sterling. If there is anything
in the story it is most likely that the notes
were issued by the Fenians, who were
very active in America in the ’sixties and
even staged an “invasion” of Canada.
There would, of course, be no obligation
on the part of the present Government of
Eire to honor the promise, though it is
possible that in the fervor of new-born
nationhood some payment may be made.
But if Mr. Costello pays out on the basis
of “The People’s” calculations he will be
letting his heart rule his head far more
than is warranted. Six per cent, for 80
years would only entitle the lucky
holders to about five times the original
investment. The notes might bring more
as collectors’ pieces.
* * * *
“Zake”: Every time a ship arrives with
displaced persons there appears in one
of the papers a story of suffering gar-
nered from one who has fortunately
escaped from behind the Iron Curtain.
Invariably the escapee will fearfully re-
quest that his or her name be not men-
tioned because of the possibility of puni-
tive action that might be taken by the
police State against relatives still resident
there. This, of course, is strictly com-
plied with. Then the story runs some-
thing like this: “Anton [let us call him],
who was a teacher of foreign languages
in a big high school in Prague, was given
the tip one night by his headmaster that
he [Anton] was under suspicion of pass-
ing military information to the British
Consul. He arranged to escape with his
wife, who ran a fashionable dressmaking
business, and their three small sons. They
succeeded through an uncle, who is a big
exporter.” Such an item, passed on to
Prague by the Australian fifth-column,
would, of course, baffle the secret police
—they couldn’t possibly determine who
the missing foreign-language master and
his dressmaking wife and three boys
could be —a task like that would stump
Sherlock Holmes himself.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: The alleged discovery by
a Russian airman in 1917 of the remains
of the Ark on Mount Ararat and recent
archaeological investigations in the Tigris-
Euphrates valley have revived interest in
the Flood myth, which may not be alto-
gether a myth, since almost every country
seems to have a version of it. Nearest
to the Biblical description are the two
Babylonian accounts, one from Berosus
and the other in the Gilgamesh epic. Ac-
cording to Berosus the Deluge took place
in the reign of Xisuthros, 10th king of
Babylonia, who received advance infor-
mation. It is the usual story of a ship
with a select crew, including Xisuthros,
and birds and animals of all sorts. The
Egyptians, the Persians and the Hindus
all had their versions, and no American
Indian tribe was complete withe it one.
The god of the Algonquin Indians was
Michabo, who used wolves for hunting,
and, in pursuing them into a lake, he
“It's the first time that lawnmower's done anything for ME.”
caused a cosmic deluge which submerged
all creation. He sent off a raven and an
otter to discover a piece of earth, but
they failed to return, so he sent out a
musk-rat, which was more successful. He
married the musk-rat, by whose aid he
peopled the world, so it is to be presumed
that Darwin was wrong, and we are all
descended from the musk-rat. Which
would be no more surprising than that
the timbers of Noah’s barge have sur-
vived 5000 years of dry-rot.
* * * *
“Bo”: The, Federal Government has
begun a campaign to boost production.
Not exactly by imploring unionists to
work harder, but by a series of news-
paper advertisements demonstrating how
production can be increased by concen-
trating on efficiency. In one advertise-
ment there are two fellows: Ais loading
a truck which is 20ft. away from the
stack. B has backed his truck to within
6ft. of it. Apart from the fact that the
last person to take note of the advertise-
ment and its implications would be the
half-wit who would carry a case 20ft.
when he need carry it only six, the
inference is, judging by the fact that there
is no driver in the truck-cabin, that he
himself is doing the loading. If any
Canberra resident hears a rumpus in the
Caucus-room shortly it will probably be
a deputation from the A.C.T.U. object-
ing to the Government advocating a
policy which encourages one man to do
the work which union policy considers
should take two.
* * * *
“Jonah”: I’ve been able to read some
doctors’ prescriptions, and those I
couldn’t read seem to have been legible
to chemists, but the king of bad writers
was a major we had with our unit in
the Army. One day I went down to
H.Q. and found the orderly-room clerk
with a piece of paper in his hand. “This,”
he said, turning it round and round in
an attempt to make sense of it, “has to
go in orders tonight. Cripes, I wonder
if he can write as well with his right
foot as he can with his left?”
“C. 8.”: The phenomenal hit made by
the Oliviers in Australia has filled other
histrions with a burning desire to see
this country. Latest is Gertrude Law-
rence, the British actress now appearing
at the Aldwych Theatre after a long so-
journ in U.S. Critics consider there is
no actress to equal her in London. It
may be so ; but it doesn’t necessarily fol-
low that she will make an equivalent im-
pression in this country. Margaret
Bannerman, a beautiful woman with a
colorful history and an enormous Eng-
lish reputation, was almost a complete
flop, and no queues were formed on
freezing pavements for Judith Anderson,
although she had good looks, was an
Australian and subsequently went to
great heights on Broadway. The recipe
for success with a stage audience in this
land is previous appearance in the films.
If the Oliviers had not already been seen
by millions on the screen I doubt if much
notice would have been taken of them,
even if they had been 10 times as good
as Laurence was and Vivien wasn’t.
* * * *
“Shep”: Some South Australians are
up in arms about the version of their
State’s coat-of-arms as shown on the new
ss. stamp. A Government official trod
on many corns when he said the magpie
depicted in the arms of the Common-
wealth was incorrect; since S.A.’s cen-
tenary in 1936 the State had been entitled
to arms showing a sun and three sheaves
of wheat. His statement brought letters
to the Press bemoaning the fact that the
original emblem—a magpie with out-
stretched wings—was obsolete. Thinking
the stamp might be withdrawn and the
error amended, philatelists staged a mild
rush on the G.P.O. Then a Federal
official stated that, as far as the Com-
monwealth was Concerned, the original
coat-of-arms was quite correct. Although
S.A. had secured a grant of a new coat-
of-arms in 1936, the Commonwealth had
never taken the trouble to amend the
original one. So the stamp is correct,
and the only people disappointed are
philatelists.
* * * *
“F.S.”: A Melbourne architect em-
ployed by one of the State’s numerous
housing authorities recently remarked,
with evident approval, that the modern
tendency in architecture was to regard
decoration as needless. He should be
pleased to hear that the Gyppo has
anticipated him. An Egyptian stock-
company has been formed with a capital
of £2,500,000 to build a “city” of 5000
houses. The method is miraculously
simple, and could only have been devised
by the race that evolved that geometrical
horror, the pyramid. A firm, circular
foundation is laid, a balloon of strong
rubber inflated, concrete poured on the
bubble and allowed to dry. The balloon
is deflated, and there’s another house for
the fellaheen.
* * * *
“H.W.H.”: Awkwardness of women
with empty hands (B. 6/4/’49)? Thirty
years ago I formed a similar opinion re-
garding men, more especially myself.
Observation suggested that men carry-
ing a walking-stick looked more dignified,
walked incomparably better and showed
more confidence in themselves. I fol-
lowed their example and can testify that
a man feels really comfortable with a
stick; it is a companion, and definitely
assists the pedestrian.
* * * *
“Sturt St.”: That heathen Chinee (B.
23/3/’49) who worked the racket with
that e.1.-meter was running true to form.
Back in the ’sixties several of the banks
in Melbourne suddenly detected consider-
able amounts of base metal —copper, zinc,
tin—in the alluvial gold which their buyers
were bringing from Ballarat and adjacent
fields. This, of course, only became
noticeable after the loose gold had been
melted and a sample taken. Consider-
able detective-work was necessary before
these base metals were traced to a
group of Chinese. Everybody who
has handled illicit gold knows that
by pouring the molten metal into water
the nicest shotty formations of waterworn
gold can be obtained. The same can be
done with brass. But Johnnie was even
cleverer than that. Well aware that too
much brass, or brass alone, would give
too much bulk without the corresponding
weight, thus betraying the fraud to any
alert gold-buyer watching the scales, he
contented himself with moderate profit,
merely reducing the faked-up gold to
nine carat.
* * * *
“Rooster”: The blueness of hills (B.
20/4/’49)? “M. 1.5.” is on the right track,
although 7th-Divvy diggers will recall
the blue tinge in the Lebanese Mountains.
It’s always noticeable, however, that it
must be a clear day. Apparently dust or
moisture doesn’t contribute much to the
blueness. The atmosphere over the
mountains of Lebanon is free of either;
it seemed that distance and strong sun-
light created the “haze.” My bet is that
the intensity of sunlight, together with
the rarity of the atmosphere, affords the
best explanation.
* * * *
“Melbn”: The housebuilding frenzy
in my district rose to intense heights
largely because of the propaganda of a
newly-arrived resident who preached self-
help at Progress Association meetings.
By way of example he started to build
a concrete drive from his side gate to
his garage at the back of his house.
Every week-end he and his wife labored
like navvies, mixing concrete, only paus-
ing to throw a gibe at the next-door
neighbor, who spent his week-ends on the
front verandah reading the papers and
emptying the bottles brought home on
Friday night. “I really ought to be do-
ing something,” this neighbor said to his
wife when the drive was nearly finished.
“I think I’ll fence the block.” He did so,
and his neighbor’s drive turned out to be
on his side of the fence.
* * * *
“Pat G.”: During my annual pilgrimage
to Sydney’s Royal Easter Show I was
impressed by the numbers of people who
seemed content to remain in blissful
ignorance of what went on in the ring.
These are the sample-bag devotees, for
whom a show without “bags” would not
be a show at all. Outside the stand I
encountered mother and daughter whose
respective carrying-capacities already
seemed overtaxed. “There’s the Agricul-
tural Hall, Ma. Want to go in?”
Mother replied she couldn’t be bothered.
There were no bags there. Daughter sug-
gested the poultry pavilion. Same reply.
Daughter, dubiously, “Well, we could go
into the stand.” “What’s in there? Any
more bags?” “Oh, no. Just horses
juipping, and things.” “Oh, well, we
don’t want to waste time there. Let’s
go home and have a proper cup of tea.”
They had their sample-bags, so they’d
had the show.
“B. A. Ker”: At Sydney Show I was
standing in front of a poultry-cage staring
at a red rooster when something struck
me between the shoulder-blades with a
force that nearly left the imprint of the
wire on my face. The next second I
was whirled around and a little grinning
man was pump-handling my right fist
at about twelve beats to a bar. I didn’t
know him, and said so. “What!” he
boomed. “Don’t remember Tiger Bron-
son? Cripes, you ought to, considering
the number of times I chased you home
from school!” The Tiger my memory
had stored up was a boy about six feet
tall and around thirteen stone. But this
little squirt was Tige, all right—he
recalled every kick he’d placed on my
fleeing pants. In the middle of the
reminiscences I became aware of a giant
about six feet four standing before a pen
near us. Stiddenly he lurched around
and, it seemed to me, deliberately
bumped the little bloke. To my amaze-
ment Tiger apologised. But the big
fellow seemed in a belligerent mood.
“You want to look where you’re goin',”
he growled aggressively. Tige still re-
mained placid. “Fair go, sport,” he
grinned. “/ was standin’ still.” The big
’un glowered. “What’s up with you?”
he demanded nastily. “Nothin’s up with
me,” said Tiger, “but something’ll be up
with you if you’re not careful.” The
giant stared a moment, then stepped back
and began to drag at his coat. Before I
could stop him Tiger was doing the
same. Suddenly an immense grin touched
both ears on the big joker’s face. “Put
it here, Tiger,” he chuckled; “don’t you
remember Fatty Gibbons —the kid you
used to chase home from school about
three nights a week? I just wanted to
find out whether you’d have had me on
if I’d stopped.”
JOE AND ERNIE.
“ ‘Long live the Soviet people and their great
leader, the greatest man of our time, Comrade
Stalin! ’ said Mr. Ernie Thornton, national secretary
of the Australian Ironworkers, to the Trades Union
Congress in Moscow. Mr. Thornton’s address, greeted
with prolonged applause, was reported in all Moscow
newspapers.”
How few such bouquets go
Like this to Uncle Joe,
Save from his own bureau.
Here’s what should make him glow
With pride for certain,
Thus to be glorified
In words borne far and wide
By someone from outside
The Iron Curtain!
Though others may defame
The Kremlin boss, and claim
Wrecking the world’s his aim,
And use his very name
Children to frighten,
Here’s Thornton to erase
Such less engaging traits
And stamp (in “Banjo’s” phrase)
Joe “a all-right ’un.”
His minions heed no calls
For peace. They fill the halls
Where nations meet with squalls
Their lurk is starting brawls
To snap and snarl in.
Yet where, asks Thornton, can
You find a worthier man,
From Rio to Japan,
Peru to Pakistan
Than Josef Stalin?
Well, now it’s clear we know
What Ernie thinks of Joe
To whom he had to go
So long a journey,
\ It’s surely time we knew
As well what sort of view
Russians —and quite a few
Of other people too —
Have formed of Ernie.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Uco”: These Parisians are funny
folk. Mr. Chifley had lunch at a caf£
on the Bois de Boulogne while visiting
their city, and instead of tucking his bib
in his collar and going straight through
the menu he contented himself with a
double whisky, lobster, a couple of bread-
rolls and half a dozen strawberries. This,
according to the cables, caused the
waiters to dub him “Austerity Chifley.”
Whisky, plus lobster, plus strawberries
equals austerity! These Parisians are
funny folk all right. Or perhaps it is
the blokes who send the cables.
* * * *
“Ay Chay”: They’re not taking
chances these days with the libel law. A
Sunday paper features a story in which
one character deals out death to two
others and a fourth kicks the first killer
to death. The yarn is prefaced by a
note: “All characters and incidents in
this story are imaginary, and if any name
used be that of a living person such use
is due to inadvertence and is not intended
to refer to such person.” The author
and editor should be quite safe —the
characters are a fox, two wallabies and
an emu.
* * * *
“F.S.”: A temperature-gauge which
once served on an R.A.A.F. bomber has
had a strange fate. A prematurely-born
baby weighing was delivered in
Portland (Vic.) Hospital. Matron Clarke
kept it alive for a fortnight in a laundry-
basket with hot-water bottles. Then she
got a local engineer to build an incubator
of boxwood to her own design, warmed
with hot water and electric-light bulbs.
The temperature-gauge serves as a ther-
mometer. The box has already saved
several lives and has become a permanent
part of the hospital’s equipment.
* * * *
“Col M.”: In the lunch-time sunshine
I was regarding with awe the clobber worn
by men of plaster in a Sydney shop-window
when I heard the collective giggle behind
me. A mixed group was grinning widely
at a man, half-way across the street and
coming on towards us at an angle of
“Off the beach with you, girl! You're uncivilised!”
45 degrees. It occurred to me then that
I stood near the Wynyard crossing—
“ Bomb Alley” since the jay-walking
campaign set in—where, as well as the
policeman on point duty, there was a
cop stationed on each side of the street
'mrely for the purpose of catching way-
ard pedestrians poihted out by his senior
observer. The jay-walker we looked at
had been spotted, and the appropriate
constable moved towards the estimated
point of interception. Still oblivious, our
man was about to mount the footpath
when the arm of the law grabbed him
by the elbow. He spun round, with a
grin, evidently expecting the face of some
long-lost friend. I have never seen any-
thing sadder than the way that grin slid
slowly down from his eyes, moving his
face with it, and finally dropped from
the point of his chin.
* * * *
“Merlin”: Heard yesterday in an
Adelaide tram: “Yes, he still gets a touch
of malaria. Coming home from the trots
last night he said he felt crook, then just
as we got out he done a Bunnerong and
I had to take him home.” Either the
speaker was from Sydney or the
language spreads quickly.
* * * *
“Ohinemuri”: Transport-drivers of the
First War used to get a great kick out
of the mule steeplechase at divvy sports.
The rules were bareback and no whip
or spur, and they were wild and woolly
affairs, enjoyed by everyone, especially the
mules. Tuapiro was the Billy Cook of
the Maorilanders, and no matter what
sort of a donk he was on he nearly
always bolted in, mostly at odds-on. It
was not till after the Armistice and at
the cost of a lot of ale that Tua gave us
the score. He was a bit of a blacksmith
and had fashioned two bits of steel like
back-studs. These he placed on the heels
of his boots with the round flat part in-
side and a sharp point projecting out
through the heel.
* * * *
“Nunk”: Calling on a friend on Satur-
day afternoon I found him bent over a
large table on his verandah, cutting out
a skirt for his wife. “A suit for your-
self I could have understood,” I said, “but
a skirt —isn’t that a bit effeminate?”
“It’s her favorite skirt,” he told me;
“she’s rather hard to fit around the —
well, you’ve seen her; so she’s unpicked
the old one and I’m using the gores for
patterns. Fourteen gores!” he said, not
without pride. “It’s not everyone who’d
have the courage to tackle a fourteen-
gore skirt.” “Come down to the pub,” I
repeated. “You can do the skirt to-
morrow.” “No,” he said. “I’ve got to
sew it after I’ve cut it. First it’s got to
be tacked together, then fitted, then
machined.” “Let her machine it,” I
advised. “Come on down the pub.”
“She can’t use a machine,” he said. “I’ll
be lucky if I’m finished before Monday.”
I went down to the pub alone, pondering
whether his was an isolated case or
whether the ability to use sewing-machines
is following piano-playing and cookery
into the limbo of lost womanly arts.
* * * *
“Helldud”: A new type of Australian
has lately been developed, whose utter-
ances, press and radio, it is wellnigh
impossible to avoid. He has the low-
down on every conceivable problem, and,
anonymous though he remains, his ser-
vices are eagerly sought by Government
and Opposition, employers’ organisations
and trade-unions. Pressmen seem to
dwell on his words, and anything he says
is news. He claims to represent every-
one, but I for one have had him. I
refer to that gasbag known as “the
spokesman.”
* * * *
“Spasebo”: Another purge is threat-
ened in Russia, where the latest heresy is
“cosmopolitanism.” According to
“Pravda,” a decisive struggle is called for
against the new crime, which is “as alien
to proletarian nationalism and Soviet
patriotism as bourgeois nationalism,
The aim, it appears, is to claim priority
for Russia, not only in every great scien-
tific discovery from the miner’s lamp to
penicillin, but in literature, poetry, music,
philosophy and the fine arts, and any
suggestion that Pushkin, for example,
owed any important part of his inspira-
tion to other than Russian sources is a
sin against the masses. Pushkin is an
unfortunate example. Russian literature
virtually began with him, and he acknow-
ledged Byron as his spiritual father.
* * 5k *
“C.A.L.”: Back in the days when jobs
were scarce in Kalgoorlie, at noon
the mob waiting on the brace hope-
fully watched the underground manager
“But would she FIT into a television screen?”
step from the cage and enter the office
for lunch, to reappear half an hour later
and pick one or two to start work. After
many weeks of presenting himself at the
shafthead and still no job, Nugget
walked up to the boss one day and asked
if he could have the next day off. “But
you don’t work here,” he was told. “No ;
but considering I’ve been coming here
every day for the past three months, I
thought that I’d better ask you if I could
miss tomorrow,” Nugget replied.
“Righto,” said the manager. “Take
tomorrow off, but bring your working
clothes ready to start on afternoon shift
the day after.”
i * * * *
“E.H.M.”: Here is one who can help
“Hamer” (B. 6/4/’49) revive memories
of the Naval Museum at Greenwich.
Forty-five years ago I lived in a street
off Trafalgar-road, only about 200 yards
from the Naval Art Gallery, known as
the Painted Hall. In the middle of the
hall were Nelson’s uniform and weapons
enshrined,in a glass case. Across the road
was the Royal Naval College—moved in
1932 to Holbrook (Suffolk) —and in the
middle of the concrete quadrangle was a
full-sized model of the Victory, used as
a training-ship. Nets stretched around
the deck caught any unwary cadet who
fell overboard. Many famous naval
men, including the Jap Admiral Togo,
trained at the college. Every Sunday
morning crowds of kids gathered outside
the gates to watch hundreds of cadets,
led by the band and headed by a
resplendent drum-major, march across
the road to the church beside the Naval
Museum.
* * * *
“Rex”: Like “Ex-C.G.” (B. 23/3/’49),
I first saw the statue of Hercules in
Adelaide’s Victoria-square. Females used
to pass it with downcast eyes if there
were men in the vicinity; it was ap-
parently considered unladylike to gaze
upon it. After years of protestations the
statue was removed to public gardens in
North Adelaide. Victoria-square was
being cut up, and this provided an ex-
cuse for the removal of the statue. In
his new position Hercules received rough
handling from the toughs. Repaired and
replaced, he finally disappeared one Guy
Fawkes’s night.
* * * *
“Spinet”: Mead (B. 23/3/’49) had
a companion-drink, bragot or braggot.
Made of ale, honey and spices, it was
said to be “of a most hot nature.” An
old English writer warns that “if it once
scale the sconce and enter the peri-
cranium, it doth much accelerate nature
and the drinker is'easily enable to afford
blows to his brother.”
* * * *
“Jurutulis”: Vocational guidance is all
the rage these days, and hordes of book-
trained psychologists get good salaries
digging into the “unconscious” of people
to find out what they’re really good at.
The results may be beneficial with some
cases, but in one it merely gave the victim
a fresh excuse for his failure to pass his
examinations. “I could never be an
architect,” he told me, “because my
mother wanted me to be one.” The
ancient Javanese principle, as applied to
babies, has points about it. A cloth is
spread on the floor and a bowl of rice, a
reaping-hook, a pen, a pile of silver
money and other objects placed in a circle
on it. The baby is placed in the middle,
and if it crawls towards the reaping-hook
it is going to be a farmer; if towards the
pen, a clerk; and if it seizes on the
dollars it will be a businessman who will
bring fortune to the family.
* * * *
“O Hector” : I’ve heard of many fight-
ing parsons, but have met only one —a
broadminded, straightforward and kindly
fellow, but a fiery redhead with a hair-
trigger temper. Once on a western
Queensland station he declined the squat-
ter’s hospitality and elected to spend the
night with the shearers. He was sitting
writing at a table in the hut after tea
when Ted, the mystery man among the
shearers, arrived home from town. He
had a bpttle of whisky in his hand and,
apparently, a lot more of it under his
shirt, and proceeded to talk the room into
silence. And he could talk —though silent
and morose when sober. Suddenly his
loquacity took a smutty trend. Just as
suddenly the parson sprang from the
table, upsetting his chair, and fetched Ted
a full-powered kick in the pants. In-
stant regret was registered on Redhead’s
face, but his first words of apology were
turned to hilarious laughter as Ted, rue-
fully rubbing his hindquarters, quoted
“There’s a divinity that shapes our ends”
—and left it at that.
* * * *
“The Sheriff”: “Hamfat’s” hero who
rescued the damsel with “Unhand her,
villain,” recalls the day when two cow-
cockies came to blows in our office over
a land transaction. Wild swings and
furniture were flying in all directions.
The chief clerk came galloping down the
passage to stop the row. He hurled one
cocky against the wall, slung the other
under a table and then spoke his piece:
“Oh, sirs, sirs! Desist, I beg of you.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: There was a time when a
long, rangy young bloke in riding-pants
and leggings, with a battered slouch hat
and a loose shirt, typified Australian
manhood. The other day in Brisbane a
girl in jodhpurs, tailored shirt, polished
riding-boots and a felt hat won a prize
in a procession as “best typifying Aus-
tralian girlhood.” I suppose to win the
male prize a contestant would have to
appear in a loud sports-coat, open-
necked shirt patterned with hula-girls,
tan-and-white suede shoes, purple pants
and a Cornel Wilde hair-cut.
* * * *
“Ardizan”: Tell “Clooter” there are
plenty of “outback kids” in my district
who could be told the Pyrmont Bridge
was the Harbor Bridge, and they wouldn’t
ask where the arch was. They wouldn’t
even know the Harbor Bridge had an
arch; some wouldn’t know there was
such a bridge at all. In some cases their
parents would be just as ignorant. I went
with a 50-year-old man to Toowoomba
recently. He had never seen a place of
that size before, and was amazed to such
an extent that when he was told that
Brisbane was a score of times bigger he
wouldn’t believe it —no place, he said,
could be as big as that. He is a ratepayer,
the father of a large family, which he
supports entirely by his own efforts, and
he votes on matters of national import-
ance when votes are called for. Then
there is Joe, another local, 60 years of age
before he saw the sea. Standing beside
his boss, a cattleman, Joe was so amazed
that he said nothing for a while ; then he
said: “She’s a decent waterhole, Boss;
pity we didn’t have her on the station.”
The boss told him to try it for taste. Joe
filled a mug at a hollow in a rock and
took a drink. “She’d be no good. Salter
than blanky corned-beef water,” he
said.
“LABOR’S” PET AVERSION.
“Measures for disciplining the Australian press and
stifling criticism of the Labor party were discussed
at the last meeting of the N.S.W. Trades and Labor
Council, one of the methods advocated being the
setting up by the Government of a ‘committee of
ethics,’ with the power of withdrawing newsprint
supplies from offenders.”
Its job would be to breathe out threats and
slaughter
’Gainst all who sought its mandates to trans-
. gress.
Talk of the Devil hating holy water,
It’s nothing to the burning bitterness
Which fills the breasts of rancorous and raucous
Adherents of the cult of pledge-and-Caucus
When they’re devising ways to gag the Press.
They’d frame a category, one supposes,
A code of morals from the “Labor” fount,
Modelled upon the Decalogue which Moses
Bore in his arms, descending from the Mount
Of Sinai —a string of prohibitions
That chaps in editorial positions
Would hesitate to break on any account.
“Thou shalt” —“Thou shalt not!” Won’t there
be a pretty
Long list of what we pressmen musn’t debate
When this projected ethical committee
Starts out to discipline the Fourth Estate
And to establish that unkindly comment
On any “Labor” figure of the moment
Is absolutely illegitimate?
These noisy demagogues, these factious Cleons
Who never lose occasion to profess
Solicitude for downtrodden plebeians
As passports to electoral success!
If one should ask what was their pet aversion
The target for their bitterest aspersion,
I think I’d take a ticket on the Press.
N.S.W.
MIOFORD.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: The boss had an obses-
sion about fire. “Is that match out?”
“Careful with cigarette-butts.” “You sure
the hut fire is out?” These were his con-
stant words. He watched our every action
with matches and smokes, and we were
sure that, after we left the hut of a morn-
ing, he inspected the fireplace. It didn’t
worry me much, but I noticed Mat was
cracking fewer jokes and had less to say.
He never could stand anybody who fussed
too much. A week or two passed. Then
Mat took to carrying a half-bucket of
water about the place. He insisted that
every match and every butt be dropped
into it, “Y’ can’t be too careful,” he
told the boss, and the boss was highly
pleased to discover an ally. But he
looked less pleased when Mat also started
carrying a bag, which he kept soaked in
the bucket, and he appeared to be mighty
thoughtful after Mat had awakened him
on two midnights running and asked him
to check the homestead stove, saying he
thought he smelt something burning.
The end came one day when Mat sud-
denly stopped work and went racing
across the paddocks. When he came back
the boss asked about it. “Couldn’t re-
member,” Mat said, “whether I’d poured
water on them ashes I threw out last
night. Y’ gotter be sure, y’ know.”
“Look,” the boss flared, “ y’re too ruddy
fussy about that sort of thing! It’d pay
y’ better t’ get on with y’r work instead
o' worryin’ about fires the way y’ do.”
It’s only because I know him so well that
I saw the grin start and then disappear
on Mat’s dial.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Fallowing the sheoak pad-
dock, I saw the boss pull up and point
homewards. I stared unbelievingly.
There was a white rag on top of the
clothes-prop, sure enough, and that was
the signal for us to come in for the
midday meal. We unyoked our teams
to the winkers and they jogged on ahead
of us. “Blowed if I know,” said the
trump. “But it seems flamin’ early to
me.” He glanced back at the thin stripple
of newly-turned soil. “We ain’t done
much this mornin’, anyhow.” When
we’d got within a furlong of the house
the piece of white rag on the clothes-
prop suddenly screamed: “Hello, boss.
Cocky wants a cuppa tea.” We slunk
“I reckon we'll get a hundred to the gallon this way."
in sheepishly. What were we doing home
so early, the womenfolk squealed. We
needn’t expect lunch for another hour;
the potatoes weren’t even peeled. “All
right, all right,” the boss hastily inter-
jected. “We’ll go an’ patch a few
bags.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Just now the N.S.W.
southern highlands about Moss Vale and
Mittagong are at their best. The morn-
ings are crisp and clear, the grass dew-
spangled, and when the sun comes over
the hills and sends its shafts of light
among the dark pines, the lighter green
of the native trees and the yellows and
reds and browns of the poplars, elms
and planes a man could stand and look
at it all for hours. The little towns stand
out sharply in the distance, with blue
wood-smoke curling among the glamor
of the autumn colors, and white plumes
of steam from some early train running
through a cutting. At this time, when
the earth is soft and moist and matted
with grasses, the worms come to the sur-
face, and every open paddock is dotted
with black-backed magpies, who either
see, hear or smell the innocent peepers
from underground and feast enormously.
Later, as the sun goes to the west and
the long tree-shadows reach across the
hills, with fairy gold-dust hanging in the
aisles between the timber, and the day
takes on that drowsy hush just before
the warmth goes away, the magpies
gather in choirs, and their glorious voices
combine in a wonder of singing, behind
and beneath it the laughter of kooka-
burras running from hill to hill along the
walls of evening. Presently it is dark,
and the stars are white and splendid in
the clear air and people are merry at
the evening meal. It is then that the
idea of catching the train back to the
city seems silly and futile, for in the
city there is nothing of bird-song or
autumn glamor and no worm can thrust
its head through the concrete and asphalt
with which the earth is armored.
**- * *
“Wippegong”: The black-wattle by the
woodheap bloomed well last summer and
the profusion of pods added to the
already-dense foliage cast a heavier
shadow than is usually seen from wattles.
The pods have gone now, but that alone
can’t, account for the way the shade has
thinned, for nearly half the leaves are
missing, too. Blame the gang-gangs.
About half a dozen of the quiet little
cockatoos found the tree and reckoned
it good; and there they camped till the
crop was stripped. Unlike their relatives
the nectar-seeking parrots, who’ll hang
head-down at the end of a flowering spray
to brush out the blossoms, the grey
cockies bite off the pod-laden twig, leaves
and all, and on the more comfortable
and secure perch of a larger branch open
the pods and eat the seeds at leisure.
And they’re either fussy or lazy or both
about those bunches of pods, for on the
discarded twigs you’ll find plenty not
eaten. Below the tree the rejected rubbish
thickens to a carpet, except where, trail-
ing away to northward, ,it tells of a week
of screaming southerlies; but through
that blow the gangs feed unconcerned,
the occasional flying twig alone indicat-
ing their presence. Though his main
appearance is sombre, the scarlet crest
of the male is one of the brightest colors
in birdland; and his wheezy little call,
uttered sparingly, has a conversational
quality to it as contrasted to the screeches
of his larger cousins. The gang-gang
is not a cage-bird. Like the koala, he’s
rather fussy about his tucker; but aside
from that, anyone who’d take a bird used
to living in ranges that are scented with
young bluegums and stick it in a wire
cage in a backyard is a barbarian.
“S.E.”: Matches were scarce at the
store, and the three fencers arrived at
their outback job to find that each had
depended on one of the others having
a light. Smokeless, they dragged through
the morning till tucker-time. “Well,
we’ve got a billy of water an’ everything,”
remarked Ted. “But I don’t see how
we’re going to boil it without a match.”
“Cripes, whatcha wanta match for?”
gasped Charlie, under the stimulus of a
brainwave. “You’re the local scout boss,
ain’t y’? Awright then, make a fire
rubbin’ a coupla sticks, or bangin’ stones
or somethin’, like y’ told the kids.” “Eh?
Ef aw, well, I’ll try it.” He spent some
time selecting his fire-sticks, gathered
dry grass and leaves, and set to work,
An hour later he was still striving, to a
running commentary from his mates,
G on, don’t stop for a spell or she’ll
go cold on y’,” roared Charlie delightedly,
Dropping his aching arms to reply, Ted
noticed that Charlie was trying a scheme
of his own further down the gully, and,
determined to beat him to it, he again
attacked the sticks. Thirty minutes later
“You haven't changed a bit , Steve —you could never hold your liquor .”
came a tiny curl of smoke. He drove his
limbs relentlessly, breathed towards the
smouldering spot, and presently the dry
grass struggled into flame. Carefully Ted
added dead leaves, and before long was
tossing on an armful of heavy sticks.
“Did you light that fire?” asked a voice
at his shoulder. “Too flamin’ right I
did! ” cried Ted proudly. “All by meself.”
“Then I’ll take your name and address,”
replied the voice. “I’m a forestry officer,
and the fire ban hasn’t been lifted! ”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: At Lome
(Vic.) each barracoota boat returning to
port attracts clouds of silver gulls which
cluster in scores over and around the
boat, darting down after the fish-clean-
ings thrown overboard. And for half a
mile stretched out along the wake are
white glistening wings of parties squab-
bling and screeching over morsels. But
in rough weather when the fishing fleet
remains in port the gulls in their hun-
dreds visit the township poultry-yards,
and unless the runs are netted off nothing
is left for the domestic egg-laying
machines. No human <San feed the fowls
and keep off those ravenous gulls.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: It’s one thing for chaps like
“Taswegian” (B. 27/4/’49) to think that
present methods of shaking dried fruit
from netting-racks could be made easier
and to suggest “a simple arrangement
whereby, starting from the bottom, each
layer of netting could be removed after
its load of fruit has been shaken through,”
and then, presumably, replaced. That
netting is strained tightly to
hold the weight of fruit, heavy
when it’s fresh and lightening
as it dries, and each year it
has to be slackened off after
the harvest and re-strained for
next season. It is fastened to
supporting wires, also strained
and slackened and strained
again. How long does “Tas.”
think the netting would retain
its' resiliency if it was undone
and rolled up every year, and
how long does he think he
would be getting it back on a
lOOyd.-rack of five tiers of
netting, each 6ft. wide? Any-
how, if the fruit is properly
dried, there’s no trouble in
shaking it through the netting after the
first few heavy shakes. Two men can
shake down a rack in no time.
*,* * *
“Blime”: Dill pored over his new
income-tax form for three nights, spelling
out a word here and there; then, with
a sigh like a summer northerly, folded
it up and took it in to the bloke at the
bank. “Yes, I’ll do it for you,” agreed
the banker. “Ah, here we are. Personal
exertion, is it?” “Eh? Aw, not personal,”
explained Dill. “Most of it’s for the boss.
Contract grubbin’, an’ diggin’ out, an’
all that, with a outside arrangement some-
times.” “I see. Now, how many de-
pendants?” “Er —four. That is, only
four rightful ones.” “All under 16 years
of age?” “Yair; think so. Know Nigger
’n’ Socks is, an’ the jackass; but I ain’t
sure about me lizard, him bein’ sort o'
big when I got him.” “Are you mar-
ried?” Dill let fly a hearty roar—one
that, during the next few weeks, recurred
every time he recalled the question. “All
right. Now what you earned, and your
expenses.” “Well, I shouted for Ted Pat-
tison,” Dill said thoughtfully, “an’ I got
a new pair o’ dungarees. Nineteen bob,
an’ they wasn’t worth it.” It took some
time, but eventually the form was corn-
pleted. “There you are,” announced the
banker. “It will mean that you work
about four days for yourself and one for
the Government.” Dill’s mouth gaped, a
hand clutched uncertainly at his throat,
then a crafty look slowly took over. With
a furtive glance over each shoulder, he
leaned close. “Thanks,” he whispered.
“Now—er—look ’ere; could y’ tell us
exac’ly which is the day I’m workin’ f’
the Govermint?”
* * * *
“F.C.1.”: When Ted Hawkins was
given an order by the town constable
for a load of firewood he selected the
toughest and knottiest wood as a way
of getting a bit of his own back on the
John for having had him fined for s.-p.
betting. The Law paid up without batting
an eyelid, but that night he waited till
the firewood-ct/m-s.p. merchant was
blotto on the proceeds of the load of
wood. Then he ran him in. Ted spent
the night in the lock-up, and next morn-
ing worked off his hangover chopping—
or trying to chop—the wood.
* * * *
“Den”: At Bororen, a small township
between Rockhampton and Bundaberg
(Q.), the north- and south-bound trains
stop to take in water, and a local hot-pie
merchant seizes this opportunity to sell
his wares. As the train departs a bunch
of disreputable-looking crows swoop
down from the nearby trees to fight and
feast over the leavings. Latecomers to
the lunch-table, however, don’t bother
about alighting—they set off in pursuit
of the train on the sound enough reason-
ing that slow eaters among the pie-buyers
will still be nibbling as the trains move
along, and should still have scraps to
throw out. Their optimism is rewarded;
one after another of the sable pursuers
puts on the brakes, wheels down and
begins the meal. The disappointed ones
continue their pursuit of the train for
several miles, flying from 10ft. to 30ft.
above the rails in a dead-straight line. It
is obviously a regular ritual, and it seems
to give the denial to those who assert that
crows don’t go in for the community fife
as do other birds.
“Bon-yi”: Peculiar growths on the
tops of hoop-pines in forestry plantations
in South Queensland present a problem
for silviculturists. Among the thousands
of tall, spire-like tops of the young trees
there’s an occasional tree whose head is
distorted into a queer assortment of spiky
shoots, flattened coxcombs, antlers and
elkhorns. The virus disease responsible
acts similarly with plants, such as roses,
and has been the original cause of the
now-familiar garden coxcomb. Known
as fascination in botany, it is actually a
plant-cancer where the cellular structure
runs riot, and the designs found on hoop-
pine main stems present some weird for-
mations. Timber-growth of the trees
affected is stopped at the formation.
Luckily its incidence is rare —about one
tree among 10,000 —and it doesn’t seem
to infect others. It has not been reported
among pines growing in their natural
state and appears to be one of the results
of mass-production methods.
SHADOWS.
Shadow of a twig on the white page,
The twig of a tree in the winter of its age,
And the sunlight sounds in rustles as a bird
Becomes another shadow as the twig is stirred.
Something my heart cannot comprehend
Moves world-wise and small as end to end
The shadow of the bird traces out
The shadow of the twig, then turns about.
The white page is broken and words are lost
In the pantomime of shadows, and the ghost
Of all meaning dances overhead—
O tantalising rustle, O life unread!
QUEENSLAND.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.


jSjg5E»
'
9m
ISSiiiP
Si
■
C- - '*' J
*4
M
1
»
I
mi
f ,’ «
Si
K
P?
W 1
RENRUT
HAND PUMP
KISMET
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
Made by William Turner (Kismet), Ltd.,
Sheffield, England.
Representative in Australia:
Mr. E. G. Jones, 43-49 Hardware St., Melbourne, 04, Victoria. Q.P.Q. Box 71.
What’s the value ol a tyre gauge? If it isn’t
accurate, it’s worthless. If it is accurate —and made
to stay accurate —it’s worth every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you . . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride* in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump ? Or a Hand Pump ?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyre! Then examine it closely .. . note' the fine,
solid Sheflield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back to you in extra years
of real service.
KISMET
MASTER
FOOT PUMP
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACK SOly a,
05UI-WVA\
=. wxoa ,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
USTTERFRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPS
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
Advertising creators and
COUNSELLORS I ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
*IACKSUL.” BRISBANE
7T
tm
'e
/SI3OAHA
m
dll
S.
them
\
but
surpass
none
m
pencil*
c0 pY»» c
BRITISH
fIHSST
Compare any copying pencil
with Britain’s finest—the “Pedigree —for
smoothness, strength and durability of colour.
You’ll find no better pencil the world over.
Because they are made of the highest quality
wood and graphite, “Pedigree” pencils do not
break or crumble when sharpened ; they retain
their smooth silky writing consistency and
colour intensity right to the end.
Obtainable in 3 degrees —Medium, Hard, Extra
Hard ; a range of 8 lasting colours.
If unobtainable from your stationer,
kindly contact your nearest agent.
( pencil company limited")
Representatives in Australia
Vic., S. Aust. and Tas.: HUBERT JOHNSON PTY. LTD., 324-330
Flinders St., MELBOURNE, C.l. N.S.W. and Queensland:
WYNYARD TRADING CO., Margaret St., SYDNEY. W./uwt.:
CHAS. A. DONALD, Economic Chambers, William St., PERTH.
ADVERT OF BRITISH PENS LTD., BIRMINGHAM. ENGLAND.
“Chuck”: Overtook Herb at the boun-
dary and we rode through his property
together. “Where’re your dogs today?”
I asked, glancing round at the lone little
foxie-cross that followed him. “Giving
them a spell?” “That’s it,” he nodded.
“This little tyke wasn’t chained, and
caught up with me.” I eyed the animal
lazily. “She any good?” “Yes; hunts
all right,” Herb explained, “but she can’t
kill. Just the same, she never lets go
anything she gets her teeth in, so if she
grabs a squatted bunny, you can bet your
shirt she’ll hold it till the pack arrives.”
At the fence in the gully Herb spotted a
hole in the netting and got off to fix it.
A few yards on we put up an enormous
hare. It dived against the fence where
the hole had been, bounced back, and
was promptly grabbed by the mong.
Herb jumped at the pair, gained a couple
of near-misses, and abandoned the chase.
Last I saw of the big hare he was half
a mile up the paddock, still towing the
tenacious little mong fastened to his
rump.
* * * *
“B. Fair”: It makes me laugh when
some alleged fisherman comes back to
the b’oatshed. and moans about being
bitten off by a flathead. A flathead
couldn’t bite through a piece of cotton.
Its top and bottom jaws are lined with
small teeth packed close together. When
hooked, and being skulldragged in, the
flattie starts to shake his head from side
to side; this motion quickly rasps
through the line. With these sandpaper-
like teeth a flathead can get a good grip
on the most slippery of fish, the mackerel,
and it’s no trouble to turn the “slimy”
and swallow head-first. Incidentally, I
have never found half a fish or prawn
inside a flathead —always a whole fish,
which proves he doesn’t bite. Have
caught flathead up to 101 b. on thin gut-
lines by simply slackening the line when
he starts his headshakes. The fish feels
no tension on the line, so stops sawing.
The same trick has helped me to land
jews (mulloway), although, having large
and well-spaced teeth, these do not bite
the fine through, but, like the flattie, will
eventually saw it through.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver wandered into
the store, stayed up the counter with one
hip and admired the well-filled shelves.
Presently the store bloke left his yarn
with the traveller and stepped across. “I
want a good strong dog-chain, George,”
Seventyfiver informed him. “For that
new pup I got.” The storekeeper slipped
a chain from a bunch and rattled it on
the counter. “Good strong chain that,”
he announced. “Suit any pup.” The old
bloke examined both ends and shook his
head. “Y’ might know chains, George,
but y’ don’t know pups,” he mourned.
“They get them sort o’ catches undone.
I had one before.” “Not a catch like
this,” defended the storekeeper. “Feel
that now. Strong enough for anything.”
“Not for a twistin’ tuggin’ pup, it ain’t.”
“But,” protested the storekeeper, “it’s no
use a‘dog fighting if he can’t get off, is
it?” “No,” admitted Seventyfiver. “Well,
“And what are you going to be when you grow up?”
then, if he doesn’t fight, how’s he ever
going to get that catch undone?” “Er —
no. Sounds reas’nable, George, an’ I see
y’r point, but —just a minute.” Seventy-
fiver ambled to the door and whistled in
a big tireless pup. “There y’ are,
George,” he said. “Tell him, will y’?
It’s him that’s got t’ wear it. An’ if y’
can convince him about that there chain
—well, I’ll take it.”
# * * *
“Hanko”: We were putting a young
one through her paces ; a flighty piece
that took a deal of holding. Approach-
ing Triggs’s place we heard a yell, and
there was portly old Steve running to
head us off at the gateway. The boss
eased the filly to a dancing halt. . “I’ve
got a little daughter,” Steve puffed ex-
citedly. “Seven an’ a ’arf pounds, an’ a
little beauty.” “’Struth,” the boss said.
“After all these years. Well, congratula-
tions, Steve. Are y’ gonna wet her head?”
“Cripes, no,” said Steve. “Annerbelle is
gonna be feared old-fashioned; none of
that there barthin’ an’ lettin’ roll about
naked in the open air; none of that
newfangled rot.” The trump stared at
him goggle-eyed, his face a mask of
wonderment, and the filly reefed on the
slackened reins and high-toed it into a
brisk canter. The boss got a grip of
himself and the reins. “All right, if y’
wanter play fire-brigades,” he snorted.
“Git to it, blast y’, git to it.” Only
gravity and good luck kept me aboard
the lurching, long-shafted brake.
* * * *
“Bo”: His pseudonym of The Banker
had nothing to do with any connection
of his in the past with the realms of high
finance. It was simply that he held an
abiding fear of creeks and rivers in flood.
“A lot o’ these coves,” he’d say, “who’ve
disappeared and never bin found have
bin swept away when a crick come down
a banker an’ bin washed under silt or
a tig log an’ drownded. An’ that ain’t
goin’ to happen to me!” He made cer-
tain of it by selecting as his camp-site
the highest ground in the district, and, to
make doubly sure, always tied a rope
around his waist with the other end
around a big gum. The mailman, who
knew the old hatter’s peculiarity, came
on him as he was putting an extra
knot in his lifeline. Looking up at
the sky he said. “I think you’ll be
pretty safe tonight—there hasn’t been any
rain up in the hills.” The Banker tested
the rope, then screwed up his eyes as
he pointed to a lone white cloud up in
the blue. “Well, I ain’t trustin’ that
cow,” he said slowly. “It looks as if
it’s hangin’ around just waitin’ to burst!”
* * * *
“Flight” : Knew a boundary-rider who,
having to raise water from a well for
his horses, crankily objected to the wax-
bill finches* drinking—a thousand of the
feathered mites wouldn’t soak up more
than a pint or so at a sitting. When
he was going away for a week he de-
liberately left the troughs dry just to
beat them. But poetic justice took a
hand: that man nearly did a perish when
he returned to his camp; the thirst-
crazed little birds had fluttered down the
80ft. shaft, found water in the bottom
and drowned almost without exception
when they got there. Their putrefying
bodies so polluted the water that neither
he nor his horses could drink it.
* * * *
“Bill F.”: After unsuccessfully fishing
for some time around dawn I was
brought out of a reverie by the cork in
the nose of the dinghy bouncing about.
All the signs pointed to a big jewfish.
After letting it run about 30 yards I
“hit,” and the fun was on. For 20 minutes
that jew fought, but finally gave up. I
had been in no particular hurry, as there
hadn’t been a sign of a, shark about be-
fore. Yet when I had him within sight
as he came slowly up there came a rush
and a shark snapped the catch in halves.
Why wasn’t the hooked fish taken when
it was deep down and circling, attacked
when first hooked and flat-out for home?
My guess is that big fish, when hooked,
send out certain distress-signals, or
“waves,” which the sea-lawyer picks up
and interprets as a cheap meal being
advertised.
* * * *
“Red Nose”: “J. O’Keeffe,” with his
queer notion that a damp glass makes
beer go flat (B. 23 /3 / ’49), should come to
Perth, where we still have the old
sprinkler-type washer. Glasses thus
cleaned are not wiped ; merely stood to
drain. Thus they are wet on the inside
when taken to be filled. But does that
make Perth’s avian brand of booze go
flat inside a couple of winks? Not on
your life! It just isn’t possible to fill
one of those wet glasses, the tipple
being so lively. Most pubs keep a half-
gallon jug of brew on the counter just
to give it a chance to go flat; from this'
the customer’s schooner is topped, and
even then it will have a head like a
cauliflower. Now let me tell “J.O’K.”
something. Touring Victoria recently I
just couldn’t get a cold beer; and most
of it, too, was flat. Carbonic-acid gas
is what gives beer its head. The amount
of this gas to be absorbed by beer, or
any other watery liquor, depends largely
upon the temperature; the colder the
liquid the more readily is the gas
absorbed. The West being largely semi-
tropical, beer to be palatable, and sale-
able, requires to be chilled. Chilled, and
in thick wooden barrels, it leaves the
brewery. Stored in a cool pub-cellar it
still keeps chill. As it rises to the counter
it again gets a chill —result, a heady brew
that no glass, be it ever so wet, can
subdue.
FOG.
Fog weaves a dainty, fairy grace
About the morning’s silver face.
In gullies deep, there oft it .makes
The bright and shining phantom lakes;
The rolling land it turns to sea
With bays and shores plain as can be;
And if you look with fancy’s eye
You’ll see the ships go sailing by.
Of limbs and leaves it fashions lace
And. tapestries for eyes to trace.
It turns gaunt cities into dreams
Of palaces and winding streams,
Clothes slums and lanes in softening grey
And turns their ugliness away.
Come! Here is Venice in Bourke-street;
The Bridge of Sighs is at the feet;
And there’s the Murray round a bend
Where sounds of footfalls never end.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


C
PJftM
corzim,
as
vnt
Your choice 1. CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is fof
sweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
i
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cooi smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIULTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
The “ Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
•**S '
and Price
s2
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp bacteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
The WILDCAT
COLUMN
Wunderlich; Ltd.
t~ Dividend* ~
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit.* 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.f
& £* & £> £j
'1941.. 50,553 11,200 8 p.c. =35,200 4,153 79,963
To stafi fund, £5OOO 74,963
6-7 p.c.
1942.. 68,957 10,699 6 p.c. =26,400 31,858 106,821
; To staff partners, £lO,OOO .. .. 96,821
1943.. 56,531 10,697 6 p.c. =26,400 19,434 116,266
To staff partners, £lO,OOO .. .. 106,256
7 p.c.
1944.. 64,488 11,200 7 p.c. =30,800 22,488 128,743
To staff pwrtners, £14,600 .. .. 114,143
1946.. 54,386 M,200 7 p.c. =30,800 12,386 126,529
! To staff partners, £11,750 .. .. 114,779
1 1946.. 60,826 11,200 7 p.c. =BO,BOO 18,826 133,605
To staff partners, £9400 .. .. 124,205
1947.. 68,744 11,200 7 p.c. =30,807 21,737 145,942
l To staff partners, £lO,BOO .. .. 135,142
,1948.. 88,988 11,200 9} p.c. =41,838 35,950 171,092
To staff partners, £10,600 .. ..160,492
■1949.. 95,569 11,200 9J p.c. =41,857 42,512 203,044
, To staff partners, £12,760 .. .. 190,254
' * After payment divs. on staff-partnership certifi-
'cates (£4526, 1949). f After deducting goodwill
(£73,888).
The demand fox: building-materials ran
ahead of output last term, and, subject to
the crippling effects of rising costs, looks
like remaining at a high level for some
years to come. This co., largest of its
kind in Australia, is well equipped to
earn whatever profits are to be had in an
industry whose selling prices are now
mostly controlled.
The co. has never failed to pay
a div. since it took over in 1908
the business established by Ernest Wun-
derlich 23 years earlier. It now has 17
factories—five in N. S. Wales, four in
Vic., two in S. Aust., three in Queens-
land and three in Tasmania —of which
five turn out architectural and industrial
metal-work, six terra-cotta roofing-tiles,
three asbestos-cement products, two
architectural terra-cotta facings and one
stoneware. In addition it holds a sub-
stantial interest in H, L. Brisbane and
Wunderlich, Ltd. (whose four factories
at Perth also produce building-materials),
in Asbestos Cement Pty., Adelaide, and
in Asbestos Mines Pty., which works an
opencut asbestos deposit at Baryulgil
(N.S.W.). A generous staff-partnership and
superannuation scheme provides the in-
centive for a loyal, efficient and contented
staff. And, to prevent possible mono-
poly control of the business by Govern-
ment, corporate or any other body, the
articles have just been amended to limit
voting-power of any one shareholder to
5000 votes. Apart from sole and joint
holdings of trustee cos., largest single
holding today is 6573 shares, the average
being 248 shares.
Since the war—during it the slack in
turnover was largely taken up by fabri-
cating metal components, etc., on defence
account —there has been a steadily-swell-
ing volume of normal production at ris-
ing prices. The value of private build-
ing permits issued in metropolitan areas
throughout the Commonwealth has
stepped along in this way:
* Monthly Averages.
Six Mths.,
( ~ J Year Ended June Dec.,
1939. 1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
£OOO. £OOO. £OOO. £OOO. £OOO.
Sydney .. 1,111 943 1,768 1,705 2,003
Melbourne .., 702 593 1,195 1,650 1,504
Brisbane .. 171 241 465 567 596
Adelaide .. 192 260 379 418 526
Perth .. 145 129 187 238 367
Hobart .. 32 25 100 119 151
Six capitals 2,353 2,191 4,084 4,687 6,147
* Permits issued by local-government authorities,
excluding Government buildings.
* ( There has also been a considerable
amount of home-building on Government
account and in country areas. Mounting
costs are the bugbear of the trade at the
moment. They have been bumped up by
recurrent wage-lifts, lising price of
materials, 40-hour week, uneven flow of
materials to the job and inefficiency of
labor —the number of man-hours re-
quired to build a house has increased
enormously.
Last year’s bigger turnover absorbed
advancing costs and enabled the co. to
show its best profit yet. That was after
deducting divs. (£4525) on staff-partners’
certificates, allowing a generous £61,928
(up £13,742) for depreciation and some-
thing for taxation, obsolescence and
abnormal cost of new plant, etc. The
£95,569 (up £6581) of profit claimed
covered full pref. requirements and
19.1 p.c. on ord. capital as against
17.6, 11.9, 12.2, 9.8 and 12 p.c.
back to 1944. The div. was kept at
9} p.c., making the average 7.4 p.c. over
the last decade, compared with averages
of 5.9 p.c. and 11.9 p.c. for each of the
two preceding 10-year periods.
Further evidence of growth, and of
the co.’s sound financial position, is seen
in the following comparison of balance-
sheet figures:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,200 £600,400 £600,600
Creditors .. 216,069 267,031 286,467 ) „„„
Tax reserve.. 131,821 166,480 199,326 j *°*> at *
Staff funds .. 81,300 90,660 93,650 104,600
Freeholds . . 329,891 342,316 365,701 356,132
Plant, etc. .. 159,420 198,192 204,417 217,442
Stocks .. 357,588 365,466 419,824 424,380
Book debts .. 115,309 160,659 176,221 192,993
Cash, invest-
ments, etc. 212,524 209,405 209,166 210,340
* Including 1 tax provision.
The year’s new addition of £13,025 to
plant, etc., was partly on account of a
new tile factory at Launceston (Tas.),
which began production in July last. A
start has also been made on another tile
factory at Northgate (Q.). The more-or-
less liquid surplus (£258,841) increased
by £21,982.
Since the beginning of 1949 the ords.
have fluctuated between 425. 6d. and 40s.
on the market. At the lower figure the
return is 4.7 p.c. on a 9} p.c. div. basis.
Each of the three lots of 7 p.c. prefs. are
priced at 335., the yield being 4.2 p.c.
Net tangible cover is £l9 15s. sd. firsts,
£lB 15s. sd. seconds, £8 17s. Bd. thirds
and 28s. Bd. ords.
Burns Philp (South Sea) Co., Ltd.
Net To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serve*, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 49,352 6* p.c. = 46,875 2,477 141,456
1941.. 38,971 6 „ „ 87,500 1,471 142,927
1942.. 45,661 5 „ „ 37,500 8,161 151,088
1943.. 68,243 6j „ „ 46,875 11,368 162,456
Inner reserves disclosed, £172,217.. 334,673
1944.. 112,589 8J p.c. = 65,625 )o R qfl ,
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. \ 36,964 371,637
Unexplained addition, £126,512 .. 498,149
1945.. 96,732 8* p.c. = 65,625 ? 107 824 256
To staff fund, £5,000 .. f 26,107
Unexplained addition, £152,594 .. 676,850
1946.. 80,401 8} p.c. = 65,625 14,776 691,626
Unexplained addition, £636 .. 692,262
1947.. 89,086 8f p.c. = 65,626 23,461 715,723
Unexplained addition, £4109 .. 719,832
1948.. 97,079 8f p.c. =» 65,625 31,464 751,286
Unexplained addition, £48,469 .. 799,755
1949.. 94,018 'BJ p.c. = 65,625 28,393 828,148
Two-thirds of this big island trading
organisation’s £750,000 of capital is held
by Burns Philp, Ltd., and has been since
the parent handed its island assets to the
offshoot in 1920. The management has
followed a cautious policy from the start,
keeping the div. moderate and expanding
and strengthening the business out of
earnings, which adds to the attractiveness
of the scrip as a. holding proposition. For
the 19 years to the close of accounts in
1939 divs. averaged 6.1 p.c., and for the
10 years since 7.5 p.c. And when the
books last closed there was £828,148 of
reserves, of which £504,537 came from
undisclosed sources over the last half-
dozen years, to support and assist paid
capital.
Three years ago there was talk of re-
turning 10s. of each £1 share, the British
Government having decided to continue
purchase and shipment of copra and
other island produce, thus reducing the
amount of working capital needed in the
business. But the revival of trade was
quicker and greater than expected, and
the co. has been able to find profitable
employment for most of its funds. As
the price of copra and other island pro-
duce rocketed, so did purchasing-power
at island centres. The figure for planta-
tion copra advanced from £l2 7s. 6d. a
ton in Jan., 1940, to £2O in Oct., 1944,
fell to £lB ss. 6d. in Jan., 1946, rose by
halting steps to £3B ss. 6d. at end 1947
and shot up to £49 10s. 6d. in Jan., 1949.
The British Government has agreed to
buy Fiji copra till end 1957 at a price to
be periodically adjusted by negotiation.
To cope with the growth of inter-island
trade the co. built and commissioned
three wooden auxiliary ketches of 128
tons each in 1948. It also passed its
assets in the New Hebrides to a sub-
sidiary, Burns Philp (New Hebrides),
Ltd., for shares which appear in the
parent’s books at £130,500. At the same
time two small branches (at Wallis and
Futuna Islands) were closed. That left
the co. with 14 branches and numerous
trading stations, mostly in the Fiji, Tonga
and Samoa Island groups. In addition,
there used to be four branches, which
fell into enemy hands, in the Solomons
and Gilberts. Present position in respect
of these outposts is not clear from the
published accounts.
Last term a record turnover added
£51,638 to gross earnings (£344,825). The
slip of £3061 in the net result was due to
a heavier allowance for depreciation
(£40,172, up £18,234) and bad debts, etc.
(£4602, up £3706).* What the new sub-
sidiary contributed to the pool, if any-
thing, isn’t visible in the published
figures. The £94,018 of profit claimed
was 12.5 p.c. on capital as against 12.9,
11.8,'10.9, 12.8, 15 and 7.6 p.c. back to
1943. That leaves out of the reckoning
£48,469 dropped from somewhere into
the “equalisation and ■ rehabilitation re-
serve.” The div. was kept at 8| p.c,
(Fijian currency), worth 9.7 p.c. to Aus-
tralian holders at the current rate of
exchange.
Over the last couple of years move-
ments in balance-sheet figures reflect
mainly formation of the new subsidiary
and expanding trade:-
1943. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Capital .. £750,000 £760,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 430,777 333,182 210,032 182,744
Properties, ship-
ping, etc... 199,209 117,374 174,709 196,167
Investments .. 282,560 1,108,760 11,500 15,016
Shares subsids. 130,500 130,500
Stocks, etc... 698,998 794,908 1,045,346
Book debts .. 90,482 113,190 99,270 112,992
Owing by subsid’y 517,114 179,849
Cash .. .. 100,108 102,948 80;817 118,522
Last term a contraction of £337,265 in
the amount owing by the subsidiary was
accompanied by a growth of £310,438 in
stock, etc., which include deposits, ad-
vances and consignment accounts as well
as merchandise and produce on hand.
The more-or-less liquid surplus was
£55,404 stronger at £1,419,481.
The pound shares, which satisfy the
requirements of a sound industrial equity,
fetch 545. 9d. in Sydney, giving an im-
mediate return of 3.6 p.c. on the basis
of last year’s div., after allowing for ex-
change. Visibly the coyer is 425. Id. in
net tangibles.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Off. 6erves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 98,135 10 p.c. => 72,137 20,000 6,998 222,889
1941.. 94,741 10 „ „ 72,208 20,000 2,533 225,422
1942.. 83,038 10 „ ~ 72,208 10,830 236,252
1943.. 81,216 10 „ „ 72,208 9,008 245,260
Inner reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO .. 345,261
1944.. 82,249 10 p.c. = 72,208 10,041 355,302
1946.. 84,757 10 „ ~ 72,208 12,549 367,851
1946.. 89,692 10 „ ~ 72,208 17,484 385,335
1947.. 93,987 10 „ „ 72,208 21,779 407,114
1948.. 90,900 10 „ ~ 72,208 18,692 425,806
1949.. 91,967 10 „ ~ 72,208 19,769 445,565
The market, which has always had a
high opinion of this co.’s scrip, is pre-
pared to wait for its benefits. After re-
maining steady around 675. for the last
few years, the pound shares, visibly
covered by 325. 4d. in net tangibles, were
recently offered at 655. 9d. The return
at 655. 9d. is 3.1 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis ; and there is nothing at the moment
to suggest either a lift in the div. or
other benefits.
Certainly the co. has a long and pleas-
ing dividend record —10 p.c. p.a. for 13
years to 1931, then 6 p.c. and 7 p.c.
during the slump, and a steady 10 p.c.
again for the last 12 years—sweetened
with £250,000 of bonus scrip, scattered
in 1924 and 1928. There is satisfactory
reserve backing for capital, strong liquid
resources, plant is up-to-date and efficient,
and the co. has a firm hold on the trade,
strengthened by absorption of the Walker-
ville Co-op. Brewery at a satisfactory
figure in 1938, and by purchase of hotel
properties, which is the form competition
takes in the trade; there is no price-
cutting. And the growth of population
and industrial expansion of South Aus-
tralia are bright spots in the outlook.
The obverse side of the coin is the
relentless pressure of advancing costs
against a background of fixed selling-
prices, and the possibility that consump-
tion of beer might not be maintained at
its present high level in the years ahead.
Last term the cost of materials (hops,
barley, sugar and other brewing ingre-
dients) went steadily up, and so did the
cost of power, transport, labor and every-
thing else; and it is doubtful whether
the peak has been passed yet. For over
a decade the upward curve of turnover,
due to increasing consumption, has more
than taken care of rising costs. Beer
consumption per head of population in
Australia increased from 10.34 gallons in
1936-37 to 13.45 gallons in 1945-46 and
to 15.94 gallons in 1946-47. According
to excise collections, the figure remained
around the 1946-47 level for the 12
months to mid-1948. Obviously much
depends on the future level of consump-
tion, and therefore brewery turnover.
The trade, however, has a reputation for
holding well, even in lean times.
It was increased output and sales that
enabled this Adelaide co. to earn an extra
£1067 of profit last term, despite a “con-
siderable increase” in costs and after
making “full” provision for taxation,
depreciation, etc. The £91,967 of profit
—it includes an unexplained addition of
£3143 to reserves —was 12.7 p.c. on
capital as against 12.6, 13, 12.4, 11.7,
11.3 and 11.2 p.c. back to 1943.
Finances are comfortable enough:
1942. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £722,080 £722,080 £722,080 £722,080
Creditors* .. 333,257 350,835 371,816 365,492
Freeholds .. 962,154 821,834 782,258 756,470
Plant, etc. . . 80,417 32,868 34,040 55,430
Stocks . . 61,393 88,043 109,144 139,741
Book debtsf.. 117,907 202,221 218,293 243,758
Advances . . 83,912 137,051 190,903 177,728
Cash .. .. 21,911 234,126 221,167 196,114
* Includes taxation, t Includes shareholdings.
To meet last term’s net additions of
£21,390 to plant, £30,597 to stocks and
£25,465 to book debts, etc., cash was
drawn upon for £25,053 and advances
reduced by £13,175. Growth in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£382,849) was
£15,158.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
, Dividends s Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
1940 .. 63,788 8 p.c. 12* p.c. 37,391 16,397 201,796
1941 .. 58,286 8 „ 15 „ 44,70913,577 215,373
Staff fund inaugurated, £lO,OOO.
1942 .. 41,423 8 p.c. 12* p.c. 37,390 4,033 219,406
1943 .. 44,101 8 „ 12* „ 37,391 6,710 226,116
To staff fund, £lO,OOO.
1944 .. 47,642 8 p.c. 12* p.c. 37,391 10,251 236,367
To staff fund, £lO,OOO.
1945 . . 59,237 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 44,709 14,528 250,895
1946 .. 51,830 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 7,121 258,016
1947 .. 76,328 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 31,619 289,635
1948 .. 87,737 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 43,028 332,663
1949 .. 89,530 8 „ 15 „ 44,709 44,821 377,484
The co. is one of the best profit-earners
and highest dividend-payers in the retail
trading group, and its scrip offers one of
the best immediate returns obtainable
in this field, too. Now that the infla-
tionary boom shows signs of losing some
of its force —this is more evident over-
seas than locally at the moment —and
since costs are still rising, the market is
suffering from what is known as “new-
issues indigestion.” For this and other
reasons there has been an all-round
easing of share prices and consequent im-
provement in yields. Since the beginning
of 1949 the price of McDowell’s ords. has
dropped from 71s. to 665. The return
at the lower figure is a satisfactory 4.5
p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis, and the
cover 455. lOd. in net tangibles.
Last term retail turnovers, which have
grown apace since war ended, continued
to expand, enabling the co. to trade
on reduced gross margins at higner
operating costs, and yet show more net
profit. This profit (£89,530, up £1749)
was the best since the present co. took


DAVIES it COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Sow*' w<£ylv
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. That's why a Globite
costa less in the long run.
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Life Assurance give
ŧ
to its
policyholders..?
Life Assurance guarantees every policyholder a
certain sum of money at a certain time. In
addition it declares a bonus regularly ... a
“plus” to your policy. You earn this benefit
thanks to the co-operation of Australia’s three
million policyholders, to the wise investment
of your savings, and to the low management
costs in Australian Offices.
to every Australian..?
The savings of policyholders are used for the
well-being of the community, too. Their pre-
miums are invested in a wide range of nationally
Important projects.. .gainingfinancial benefits for
themselves, and better living standardsfor all of us.
THREE MILLION POLICYHOLDERS . . . SEVEN
AND A HALF MILLION AUSTRALIANS . . .
MATERIALLY BENEFIT THROUGH
LIFE ASSURANCE
ISSUED BY THE LEADING LIFE
ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
The responsibility of planning
your dependants* security is a
very personal one and one to
which you should devote much
thought. Above alt avoid delay
in taking action. A simple,
direct and very definite way of
assuring security for yours, is
by arranging adequate life assur-
ance. The Equitable Probate A
General Insurance Co. Ltd*
will advise you.
R. V. PERKINS,
General Manager.
EQUITABLE PRO.BATE
& GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
•. //«*}off/ce-37/-373Oueenffi, Brisbane
WIHGEIIO HOUSE. ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COUINS.HOUSE. COLLINS ST, MEIBOUHNE
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING——INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
FORECAST
0M
HO
today!
m
m
1
*
£
&
1
®^«O3C
IT**
a
JOUR future is of vital import-
ance to you, but when you get
right down to hard facts it doesn t
matter very much what you read
in your horoscope.
If you want to know about your
future happiness, your Common-
wealth Savings Bank pass-book
will tell your fortune for you. If
it tells you that you are making
deposits regularly every week, then
you can face the years ahead with
confidence and peace of mind.
Save something every pay-day
with an account in the
COMMONWEALTH
BANJA
EVERY BANKING FACllltf
VA I L A'B V L E, A T ALL, fi ft A N C.M IS
C.S.B. 23 82
over from McDowell and
Hughes, Ltd., in 1920. It
covered the small pref. div.
(£800) and 30.3 p.c. on the
£292,276 of ord. capital as
against 25.7, 25.8. 17.4, 19.9,
16.6, 14.7 and 13.8 p.c. back to
1942. The distribution remained
at 15 p.c. (5 p.c. of it is labelled
bonus) for the fifth year m sue-
cession, making an average of a
'
wink over 14 p.c. for the last
decade, compared with an aver-
age of 10.4 p.c. for the 10
troublesome years before that —
during the slump the co. never
failed to pay a div lowest being
7 p.c. When the books last
closed there was £377,484 of re-
serves supporting and assisting
paid capital, so the two com-
bined need turn in only 6.5 p.c.
to cover last year’s rates of dis-
triblltlOll. .
The store, facing King- and
George-streets, is at one of the
busiest intersections in the city,,
the co. specialises in medium-
priced goods, and the manage-
ment has earned a reputation for
shrewd buying and careful
budgeting, which means a tight
hold upon controllable out-
goings, among other things.
The financial position further
strengthened:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital £302,726 £302,726 £302,726
Overdraft .. 21,288 38,843 15,619
Sundry
credit or s 131,345 135,292 200,177
Tax reserve 194,015 187,120 129,425
Final div. .. 29,673 29,673 29,673
Freeholds,
etc. .. 492,215 372,417 371,836
Stocks .. 272,320 395,962 344,829
Book debts 93,060 102,034 192,299
Investments 67,237 47,502
Cash, etc... 20,183 7,764 7,735
Shares subsid. 90,903 90,903 90,903
Despite the rise in prices, there
was a contraction of £51,133 in
stocks last term, which suggests
that goods, especially imported
lines, are beginning to come for-
ward in better quantity at more
competitive price-levels. The
growth in credit buying is re-
flected in a rise of £90,265 in
debtors’ balances, which in-
clude advances to the subsidiary
(£80,584, up £34,590), whose
profits are not included in the
parent’s figures. Improvement
in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£308,424) was £45,452.
Zircon Rutile, Ltd., a Mel-
bourne co. with a paid capital
of £125,000, which is treating
beach sands at Byron Bay
(N.S.W.) for zircon, rutile, etc.,
has paid an interim 5 p.c. in
respect of the year to June 30
next. For the half-year to end
December last the volume of
sales increased substantially,
European buying having more
than offset the drop in Ameri-
can demand. But higher costs
and lower prices resulted in a
“somewhat lower but satisfac-
tory” profit. For the year to
June 30, 1948, co. netted £38,951
and paid 15 p.c. (£15,000). A
statistical blackout is maintained
over production, treatment and
recovery figures. The co. also
has a plant at South Yarra for
manufacture of titanium dioxide
from rutile, and is about to link
up with overseas interests to
further develop this project. The
scrip, which fluctuated between
31s. and 235. during 1948, re-
cently dropped to 17s. 6d. in the
market.
* * * *
Freney Oil has cleaned out its
bore on the Nerrima dome in
the Kimberleys (W.A.) down to
3300 ft., and has another 917 ft.
to go before bottom (4271 ft.) is
reached. After that “interesting
developments” are expected
within the next 500 ft. This bore
was abandoned on orders from
the Federal Government in 1942,
when a Jap landing in the area
was feared. Plant is capable of
drilling to 10,000 ft. After allow-
ing for all liabilities and includ-
ing an unspecified amount of un-
paid calls, chairman says the co.
has £16,500 available, and there
is a further £26,550 uncalled on
265,500 contribs., now called to
4s. each, with 70,000 6s. shares
under option. The market prices
the contribs. at 2s. 7d. Co. holds
two other oil-prospecting areas
in the Kimberleys, one 200 miles
and the other 45 miles from the
present bore site. Zinc Corp.
and Vacuum are also prospect-
ing for oil in adjacent areas.


Assets Exceed
£2,750,000
The A.C.A.
for Security
THE A.C.A.
A.C.A. POLICIES
ARE
GOOD POLICIES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.)
A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney
Call, Write or Ring. Telephone BX 2165
BRANCH OFFICES
IN ALL STATES
D. J. MOONEY
Managing Director
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1927.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance hut lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.'
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fides of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the reeord of the 12,000 Bissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Yic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Rundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnemey &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: C. T. See Kee, Radoleetrix Sales
and Services.
THE
ARMIOALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOIi situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from tfce rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Business.Rollery,Etc.
Depression or Prosperity?
In the United States business
has fallen off in a variety of
lines, prices are down in a
number of cases, the share-
market, though showing recovery
from the lowest levels of March,
is still considerably weaker than
the highest point reached in
1948, and, generally, there is a
feeling that the long-awaited (by
some) buyer’s market is ap-
proaching. Others interpjet the
position as showing the first
signs of a slump.
In Ehgland there has been a
noticeable drying-up of ready
spending-money. There, too,
sharemarkets have fallen con-
siderably over a period. Raw
materials, especially metals and
wheat, are now reaching Britain
at prices considerably below last
year’s average cost.
Australia has felt the first re-
actions from these overseas de-
velopments principally in its
base-metal mines and in the
sharemarket. Wheatfarmers will
also be affected in the long run,
though “stabilisation” probably
never did allow them to get the
full world price in previous
years, and the blow to this
extent is now softened. Wool-
growers are getting prices
somewhat lower than they were
in January, but their returns are
still very high by comparison
even with a couple of years ago.
These changes in the world’s
economic outlook have caused
Australians to stop and think
about their own economic
future. Many are wondering
whether a depression is on the
way, or, if that is not so, what
sort of readjustment is facing
the country.
There was bound to be an end
to soaring world commodity
prices some time. Even so early
as about this time last year there
was a flurry in America which
led to the comment in New York
that “Inflation’s back has now
been broken.” After the flurry
many prices went nigher, how-
ever: which raises the question
as to whether, even now," infla-
tion in world prices has been
exploded.
It may be that inflation in
commodity prices has received
a blow. But until inflation in
wages has also been* checked
there can be no guarantee that
prices for manufactured goods
are definitely on the downturn.
Manufacturers may have to take
the first brunt of a reversal in
the “economics of scarcity”
before the stabilising can be
extended to wages; but any
country which values its funda-
mental economic stability must
plan for such a reversal ulti-
mately. You cannot have a
never-ending process of rapid in-
flation.
As The Bulletin has pointed
out before, whilst we cannot
ignore world price-levels for our
export products, the price for
wool seems likely to stay at a
payable level for a considerable
period, and oUr real immediate
problem in Australia is to get
economy on to an efficiently pro-
ductive basis. We are far from
being in that state at present:
and, at the risk of being Redun-
dant, let it be repeated'that the
main reasons for our backward-
ness arise from Socialist politics
and Communism. The whole
Australian industrial field needs
the overhaul and attention of
economic and industrial realists
even if the ideals of social “re-
formers” are to be preserved.
The social-security programme
of the Socialists will not be
worth a dump unless we return
to a sound economic and in-
dustrial basis in this country.
Perhaps the best stimulus to
such a return would be a shock
to those who imagine that our
present paper-money prosperity
can go on for ever, that a fair
day’s work isn’t necessary to get
a fair day’s pay, that wages can
keep rising with inflating costs —
or vice versa —an<3 that the 40-
hour week, and even a 30-hour
week, are ingredients of pros-
perity.
In any case, however we are
brought back to commonsense,
we have the work ahead of us
necessary to guarantee a busy
economy for the next ten years
at least, and the only problem
is to get this political-industrial
problem straightened out among
ourselves, with Communist and
similar treachery effectively dealt
with.
There is no need for a depres-
sion in Australia unless the
Socialists and the Communists
“What the devil do you want more money for —you'd
only spend it!”
f
insist upon it, and succeed in
having their way. The vested
interests of trade-unionism are
sometimes a stubborn factor
when the national interest is in
jeopardy, but with Communist
elements dealt with that prob-
lem should be minimised. There
are few economic or industrial
obstacles indeed looming on the
Australian landscape that cannot
be settled on the economic,
scientific and industrial plane.
Possibly it requires the first
chill breath of economic realities
abroad to disperse the humid
and putrefying Socialist and
Communist fug. That fug has
to be dispersed somehow. It is
the only real danger ahead of
prosperity and progress in Aus-
tralia.
Queensland’s Coal
Brisbane had hardly got over
Anzac Day when it found itself
with a Queensland’ Industries
Fair on its local showground. It
must have astonished Queens-
landers, as it astonished a lot of
Australians elsewhere, to dis-
cover that what had, up to 1940,
been regarded as a State which
seemed to be composed largely
of cattle, sheep and sugarcane is
actually on the march in the
secondary-industry field. In this,
of course, it was helped by the
war, and the subsequent need
for Australia to make things it
had hitherto imported,
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” pub-
lished some very good stuff
about the Q.1.F., and pointed out
that whereas the value of
Queensland-made goods in 1939
was £63 million, it was £125 mil-
lion last year; there were 3087
industrial plants, now there are
3640 ; and factory employees in-
creased from 54,873 to 77,412.
Not bad for a beef-and-sugar
State.
But the paper discovered the
real meat in all this when it in-
vited Premier Hanlon to write
a special article boosting, his
State. Mr. Hanlon promptly
discovered Queensland’s coal re-
sources, and the figures he gives
ought to set most Australians
wondering why the nation has
been held to ransom by the
Communist-led N.S.W. coalies
for so long.
Coal, says Mr. Hanlon, lies
mainly in central and southern
Queensland. “The south-eastern
seaboard for 200 miles has ad-
jacent coal measures, and inland
coal measures extend continu-
ously for 600 miles.” From Col-
linsville in the north to Spring-
sure and Baralaba in the south,
280 miles, lies a coalfield 100
miles wide. Mr. Hanlon’s esti-
mates of workable coal in main
deposits:
Bowen field (Collinsville), 1000
million tons; Blair Athol, 200 million
tons; Callide, unknown, but “limited
development” shows 20 million tons;
Dawson Valley (Baralaba), • 250 mil-
lion tons; around Ipswich, where
coal has been dug for many years,
38 million tons.
Though he has “not chosen to
give details of all coal measures,”
this represents a total of 1500
million tons. A most significant
aspect of it is that a. very large
proportion of the coal is avail-
able for opencut mining and can
therefore be got out at much less
cost, at a greater rate per day
and with fewer men than in deep
coalmining. Transporting it
under present conditions, either
by land or sea, to the southern
States couldn’t be done. It
would need the building of rail-
ways and establishment of coal
ports.
All the same, Australia wants
that coal and will continue to
want it. While it lies idle under
Queensland earth the Common-
wealth is an economic, if not a
political, prisoner of tne N.S.W.
coalfields. That is why so many
other Australians are as disap-
pointed as Queenslanders them-
selves at fhe fading promise of
the huge-scale development of
Blair Athol and Callide which
they heard so piuch about a
couple of years or less ago.
Mr. Hanlon rightly says that
“within the last two years
Queensland’s coal measures
have become the focus of public
attention.” They will continue to
be the focus of public attention,
and it shouldn’t be necessary to
remind Mr. Hanlon that all
Australia has a stake in Queens-
land coal. The more that is said
and written about those enor-
mous and easily-dug deposits
the more apparent becomes the
reason for the Communists fight
against opencut coal develop-
ment. They don’t want Aus-
tralians to continue in employ-
ment at good money ; they don’t
want more Australian factories
running continuously; in a
word, they don’t want Australian
development—until after that
bloody revolution for which they
plan and which they hope to
win.
“W.F.S.”: Now that Australia
is likely to develop sulphur pro-
duction, the Phillips River dis-
trict of West Australia should
receive attention. Along the side
of the Ravensthorpe Range are
a number of gossan outcrops.
In 1909 the Phillips River Gold
and Copper Co. had a bore put
through one of these, and, ac-
cording to a report by A. Mont-
gomery, M.A.F.G.S., it passed
through a solid lode of pyrites
168 ft. wide at an angle of 45
degrees from the vertical. As
there are several of these out-
crops, evidently there is a very
large tonnage of pyrites avail-
able within 35 miles of the port
of Hopetoun, with a fall of 1000
feet over a good road, so that
haulage charges should be. light.
There are also in the district
large quantities of very high-
grade magnesite and enough
spodumene to supply the world’s
needs for lithium.


r
W!tZ
Established 1808 in Reign of,
George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
{England,)
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.tf.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
•2Sr
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box IA, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
CITY ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY LIMITED
[lncorporated in Queensland]
156-166 BOUNDARY STREET, BRISBANE.
To The Shareholders of City Electric Light Company Limited, Bth April, 1949.
Dear Sir / Madam,
By direction of the Company's Board of Directors, the address of the Chairman, Mr. J. H. Holmes, at the
fifty-third Ordinary General Meeting of the Company held at the Company’s Registered Office, 156-166 Boundary Street,
Brisbane, on Bth April, 1949, is printed hereunder and forwarded to you for your information.
H. BASKERVILLE, Secretary.
CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS
To the SHAREHOLDERS OF CITY ELECTRIC LIGHT COMPANY LIMITED, at the Fifty-third
Ordinary General Meeting of the Company, held at the Registered Office of the Company, 156-166
Boundary Street, Brisbane, on Bth April, 1949.
ladies aiul Gentlemen:
I now have the honour of presenting to you at
this the Fifty-third Ordinary General Meeting of the
Company, the Report of your Directors and the
Profit and Loss Account and Balance Sheet for the
year ended 31st January, 1949.
PROGRESS OF THE COMPANY:
Last year, I told you that the year then ended
had been one of record capital development, record
expansion of sales and record production efficiencies.
All of those records were surpassed during the year
ended 31st January, 1949. Our sales of electricity
increased by more than 35 millions of units, that is
by more than 17 per cent.
These additional 35,000,000 units of electricity-
mean a great deal more than the added revenue which
they bring to the Company. Their full significance
can only be fully appreciated when translated into
terms of industrial development throughout the large
and important area of the Company They
represent a greater abundance of grown crops, more
manufactured goods, greater amenities and lessening
of toil and monotony for the men and women of
South Eastern Queensland whom we serve. We are
very proud of our achievements during the year.
It is quite impossible to get a real picture of the
Company’s activities, without envisaging the large
and important area which it serves. Important as is
the development of the metropolitan base load upon
which the economy -of rural development rests, the
Company’s major portion of its capital expansion
during the year, has been outside Brisbane.
This Company has been a pioneer of rural de-
velopment and its achievements in this regard are
unrivalled anywhere else in Australia. It has been
and still is the Company’s policy to extend its electric
lines wherever economically possible. The success
which it has achieved in giving service is exempli-
fied by the insistent demands on the Company by
country communities for supply. The Company is
doing all that it can to meet those demands. Not-
withstanding its limitations of materials and man-
power it constructed more than 250 miles of electric
lines of various voltages through the countryside
during the'year.
From 31st January, 1948, to 31st January, 1949,
the Company spent £1,017,791 on capital extensions.
Of that sum, £515,555,' or more than one-half, was
expended on country extensions in Queensland, and
£28,453 on extensions in New South Wales. A great
deal of the balance of the expenditure in the metro-
politan area must be regarded as contributory to our
country services. The Power House and main trans-
mission lines erected within the metropolitan
boundaries serve the country just as much as Brisbane.
TEN YEARS’ RESUETS:
On the 31st January last we completed the first
ten years of operations under our Agreement with
the State Electricity Commission. Although this
period included six years of War, it has been one of
remarkable progress, as these figures will show: —
Total Units Sold
Peak Load on System ..
Total Revenue (Sales of
Energy)
Average Selling Price per
Unit
Asset Values: —
Metropolitan ..
Ex-Metropolitan
New South Wales ..
Year Ended Year Ended
31/l/’39.
66,176,503
22,200 k.w.
£477,658
1,732 d.
£2,016,744
£624,426
31/l/’49.
244,712,298
71,800 k.w.
£1,450,859
1.423 d.
£4,636,674
£2,864,288
£121,133
Total ..
.. £2,641,170
£7,622,095
In addition to supplying the consumers in our own
very extensive areas, we are supplying electricity in
bulk to The Toowoomba Electric Light and Power
Company Ltd. and the Crow’s Nest Shire Council.
Our supply to the Crow’s Nest Shire began on the
31st March, 1948, and during the year we supplied to
The' Toowoomba Electric Light and Power Com-
pany Ltd. 24,446,400 units.
Notwithstanding our very rapid growth over a most
difficult period—one of scarcities and rising costs,
the solidity and security of the Company’s financial
structure has remained unimpaired. We are very
proud of these ten years of progress.
NEW BUEIMBA “B” GENERATING
STATION:
We were very gratified when the Honourable, the
Premier, Mr. E. M. Hamon, on the 2nd September,
1948, turned the first sod on the site of the Com-
pany’s future Bulimba “B” Generating Station. This
Generating Station will represent the biggest single
work undertaken by the Company. Its estimated cost
is approximately £6,000,000. It is to provide for
the pressing need for increased power to meet the
rapidly developing load on the Company’s system,
and it will incorporate the most modem plant which
can be procured to give an optimum of economic
advantage in production.
That the ceremony was performed by Mr. Hanlon
was particularly fitting, because he has always shown
so great an interest in electrical development and has
assisted the Company in its endeavours to carry out
its important part in the vast scheme of electrical
development throughout the whole State which the
Queensland Government has envisaged. The State
owes much to Mr. Hanlon and also to Mr. Forgan
Smith, our former Premier, for their broad concep-
tion of the great progress which an extensive supply
of electricity must bring to the State.
I should also like at this stage to express our
appreciation to the State Electricity Commission of
Queensland for the effective manner in which the
Commission has carried out its duties. Mr. S. F.
Cochran, happily recovered from his recent illness,
is now the sole Commissioner for Electricity Supply
in Queensland. He has always been the chief Execu-
tive Officer of the Commission. However, I wish to
pay a tribute also to his former colleagues and officers
—Mr. A. E. Axon, Mr. H. S. Bryan, Mr. J. J. Grier,
Mr. W. H. R. Nimmo and the late Mr. S. F. Ross,
the first Secretary to the Commission.
Work is now proceeding on the preparation for
the construction of the foundations for the Bulimba
“B” Generating Station. The Station, when complete,
will have a pleasing facade and will be conspicuous
at the river approach to the City. The site on Gibson
Island is ideally situated for a Generating Station.
BUEIMBA “A” GENERATING STATION:
During the year the installations in Bulimba “A”
Generating Station of No. 14 Turbo Alternator Set
and No. 20 Boiler were completed. Those units were
brought into service.
TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION
EINES:
A great deal of progress was made with the main
llOk.v. and 33k.v. transmission lines and associated
Sub Stations, and with the general development of
the system. The rate of progress has been better this
year than ever before and will increase as skilled
labour trained in the Company’s service and elsewhere
becomes more rapidly available.
THE YEAR’S PROFITS:
The nett profits for the year amounted to £260,778.
After providing for £182,400 for the year’s dividends,
a nett amount of £78,378 has been placed to the
Reserve Fund Account. The year’s profits are greater
than last year’s profits by £62,293. This increase is
very necessary and thoroughly justified. In the first
place, the profits have been earned on a greater
capital investment. In the second place, it is neces-
sary steadily to build up the Reserve Fund Account
to the Statutorily permitted level. During the War
years, the Company adopted a deliberate policy of
avoiding price increases. As a result of this policy,
the Company did not earn sufficient profits to con-
tribute to the Reserve Fund Account the annual
contribution of 1 per cent.
FINAE DIVIDEND FOR THE YEAR:
It will be noted from the Directors’ Report to the
Shareholders that your Directors are recommending
the payment of dividends for the half-year, in accord-
ance with the Agreement with the State Electricity
Commission of Queensland, that a dividend of £3
p.c. on the 6 p.c. Preference, Shares, a dividend of
£3/10/- p.c. on the 7 p.c. Preference Shares and the
standard dividend on the ordinary shares, namely, a
dividend of £2/11/3 p.c. on the ordinary shares
which were fully paid as at Ist August, 1948, and at
the rate of £5/2/6 p.c. per annum on the amount
due and paid up from time to time on the con-
tributing’ shares of the 1948 issue.
FURTHER CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS:
Your Directors have now arranged for an issue of
a further £500,000 debenture stock at a favourable
rate of interest. Details have not yet been quite
completed, but we hope to be able to make an
announcement in a few days.
Later in the year a further share issue will be
made. It is intended that this capital will be called
up over a period as in the case of previous issues.
OUR EMPLOYEES:
These results and the service which we have given
our consumers have been possible only through the
loyalty and efficiency of our staff and employees. To
them we owe a vote of thanks.'
The Company has never been unmindful of its
employees. In 1939 when the Agreement under which
we operate was made with the State Electricity
Commission of Queensland, your Directors obtained
the insertion of provision for the establishment of a
contributory Superannuation Fund. Unfortunately,
with the intervention of the War, it became impos-
sible then to establish such a Scheme.
As you will have observed from your Directors’
Report, a contributory Superannuation Scheme has
now been established with the approval of the
Governor in Council. This is not the first time that
the Company has tangibly rewarded its employees
for their loyal service. When the Company was very
much smaller the, shareholders, on two separate
occasions, made available employees’ shares to be
taken up by employees. In 1930 the Company set
aside £50,000 as a Provident Fund for its older
employees. The Scheme which the Company has now
adopted will ultimately provide for every permanent
employee of the Company. All employees who have
completed three years’ continuous service with the
Company are eligible to join. Others, with less
than three years’ service, may join with the consent
in writing of the Company.
Later, in the Business Sheet, we will be dealing
with a resolution to set aside from the unissued shares
in the capital of the Company, 100,000 shares for
allotment at par over a period to the Trustees of
the Superannuation Fund. It is not intended that
these shares should be allotted at the time of the
next share issue to shareholders. It is intended that
they be made available by the Directors from time to
time as the Trustees of the Superannuation Fund have
moneys available for investment in the Company.
The privilege of taking up shares in the Company
at par is an important one, and one which I am
sure you will agree with me has been thoroughly
earned by our employees by their loyalty and efficiency.
THE PRICES REFERENDUM:
At our last Annual Meeting I pointed out the
serious effect which a “Yes” vote on the Prices Refer-
endum would have had on this Company. The result
of the Referendum is now past history, and I. think
it unlikely that the Commonwealth will again en-
deavour to get this power from the States. The
power of fixing the price of electricity remains with
the State and the formula by which our charges and
dividends are fixed remains unaltered.
PRICES:
As a result of the consistently rising cost of
living, the impression has been deliberately created
that the States have fallen down on the job of
price fixing and that the Commonwealth could have
done a much better job. Nothing could be further
from the truth. In the first quarter of State price
control, the rate of increase was less than in the
last quarter of Federal Control. The States, un-
doubtedly, are doing a much more efficient job of
price control than the Commonwealth had or is likely
to have done.
As I also told you last year, prices cannot be pre-
vented from rising by price control. The only way
to put a stop to the increasing cost of living is to
produce more goods and commodities. There is still
little sign of this in Australia, and it seems that
further price increases in esential commodities will
be inevitable. I very much fear that electricity, like
other essential commodities, will become yet dearer.
However, there are some hopeful signs overseas, and
I think it likely that, in a few months, the rising
cost of living can be checked.
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
Yet another sign that there’s
fess money about, long-distance
Easter bookings by train were
fewer than last year; and the
nearer coastal resorts did good
business, but only at the last
minute, for many people chose
to wait for the sunny weather
before they made up their minds
to travel. The considerable out-
of-doors amenities that the
metropolis and its environs still
have to offer were strained to
the limit, with peak time for
daffodils at Kew Gardens and
the tow - path at Richmond
especially popular.
The removal of clothes ration-
ing may have contributed to the
revival of the fashion parade in
Hyde Park on Easter Sunday. As
a fashion parade it wasn’t much
of a success, but as a “free-for-
all” it was. Word soon got round
that stage and screen celebrities
would be passing among the
promenaders. Huge crowds
converged on Rotten Row to
spot the stars, mob them and
then, apparently, to follow them
back to their hotels. The
parade bore as much resem-
blance to those of pre-war days
as jive does to the Edwardian
ballad.
On the Monday another
parade was more decorous —and
more successful. The tradi-
tional van-horse procession in
Regent’s Park, with over 350 en-
tries, had pageantry, color and
old-world charm.
Municipal Elections
Party politics haven’t im-
pinged substantially upon British
local-government until compara-
tively recently—and then only
because the Socialists insisted on
having it that way. From the
embarrassing losses sustained by
Labor in the April municipal
elections it would seem that
their strategy has turned out to
be something of a boomerang.
The Tories, though with reluct-
ance, have now come into line.
Moreover, since the London
County Council tends to become
more and more of a “nursery”
for budding members of Parlia-
ment, several candidates, ap-
parently seeing little prospect of
being returned as Liberals or In-
dependents, have stood, and
been elected, as Conservatives.
Even after allowing for the
redistribution of seats and
other imponderables, the result
of the L.C.C. election shows a
marked swing away from the
Left. The following table shows
the state of the parties:
New Old
Council Council
Labor .. .. .. 64 90
Conservatives 64 28
Liberals .... 1 2
Communists .. 2
Vacant seats .... 2
The sweets of office are always
tempting, to Labor hearts
especially. They have controlled
the L.C.C. for 15 years and are
reluctant to let go. The cynical
adroitness of their leader on the
council in choosing to “rig” the
aldermen so as to secure a shaky
working majority can only re-
dound to the detriment of the
Socialists. In no way does it in-
terpret the result of the poll.
The ratepayers who, during
these post-war years, haven’t
been remarkably well served
will be the sufferers. It isn’t
likely that they will forget.
Dockers’ Doubts
The recent illegal strike in the
London docks, when 15,000 men
came out in protest against the
dismissal of 32 senile and in-
effective workers, lasted only
five days, caused little irremedial
dislocation of. food supplies and
fizzled out tamely in the face of
authority: which; after the up-
heaval of last July, is very com-
forting. Mr. Dick Barrett,
general secretary of the steve-
dores’ union, who led the men
out and as quickly led them back
after his visit to the Ministry of
Labor, is, significantly, a Com-
munist. An ex-docker himself,
he has a talent for broad humor
and knows how to hold his dock-
side audiences. He has, in fact,
just the “qualification” the Com-
munist party requires—that of
being the right man for the right
job. In this instance, as the
men seemed to be rather sensi-
tive about being associated with
him politically, he didn’t get
very far.
The dockers’ chief com-
plaint, which i$ shared by other
groups of comparatively well-
paid workers, is that on ceasing
work at the age of 65 the drop
from an average of £B-£lO a
week to the State pension of
265. is too steep. Therefore, it
is argued, the State pension
should be increased or, failing
that, the dockyard industries
should make some contribution.
There used to be a maxim
that the wise man put a little bit
by for the rainy day, and this
course suggests itself at once as
a possible solution. But per-
haps such an old-fashioned capi-
talist method offends against the
underlying principles of the Wel-
fare State.
Theatrical Standards
Although Ivfr. Tyrone
Guthrie’s statement that “neither
Australian amateurs nor Aus-
tralian audiences had sufficient
sense of standards to detect the
first-rate from the second-rate”
may lack qualification in the
single paragraph that reached the
London newspapers, one Eng-
lishman with experience of audi-
ences in several European and
American cities feels compelled
to ask: “How many authorities,
informed or otherwise, can be
sure of discriminating between
the good and the passable?”
Certainly many blunders have
been made by managers and
critics. In the West End, and
on Broadway, audiences are too
frequently deceived by a profes-
sional slickness which is only a
thin veneer over artistic hollow-
ness.
The high quality of amateur
acting in some of the English
Little Theatres is chiefly due to
the sincerity and keen competi-
tion among the actors, to civic
or private patronage and,
especially, to a professional pro-
ducer; it is not as a rule the
result of watching touring com-
panies.
Those of Mr. Guthrie’s own
branch of the theatre, the pro-
ducers, have probably been sub-
stantially responsible / for the
conditions he describes, al-
though not as much in recent
years as formerly. The old
theatrical tendency to regard
provincial and “colonial” audi-
ences as inferior in intellect and
discrimination to those of
Shaftesbury-avenue may have
led to false standards. “Playing
down” was always ill-advised.
Irving, Bernhardt and many
others set a bad example by
touring trash.
A permanent headache to the
Australian theatre, it seems to
the Englishman, is the steady
drain it suffers by so many of
its actors and actresses being
allured oversea where prospects
are said to be better; and,
judging by the string of names
that comes effortlessly to mind,
these migrants don’t seem to go
back.


razor
WITH
Double Life
GEM Blades
Obtainable Everywhere,,
COMPLETE
3<
WITH 2 BLADES
IN NEAT PLASTIC
. case i
m
Bs/
AV 0fO rg
ITS THE WEIGHT BEHIND THE EDGE THAT
GIVES SMOOTHER, EASIER SHAVES
Why let Roofing delay
your Home plans ....
...plan instead to use
WUNDERLICH METAL TILE
Place your order now and be assured of an
attractive Russet-Red watertight roof for your new
home. Any tradesman can fix metal tile, quickly
and effectively.
Available in sheets s'loi" x (16 tiles to
sheet) together with Ridge Capping, Screws,
Washers, etc.
'Phone MX 2411, write Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, or
call at our Baptist Street, Redfern, Office for
prices, illustrated leaflet and fixing details.
ETAL TILE ROOFING
STAMPED AND STOVE ENAMELLED ZINCANNEAL
A PRODUCT OF THE METAL-WORKING DIVISION
OF WUNDERLICH LIMITED
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FORMIDABLE FIFTH COLUMNS.
Hitler’s fifth-column, even in
the neighboring countries, was
small game compared to the
Communist traitors that prac-
tically all nations —including, of
course, Australia—would first
have to cope with when the
Kremlin gave the marching
orders for .World War 111.
How many of the kind there
are here—professed and other-
wise—may perhaps be known to
Mr. Chifley, dithering over them
as “political philosophers”; it’s
a mighty big “perhaps.”
In the U.S. the Federal Bureau
of Investigation has for years
been steadily getting them placed,
and they amount to a tidy army
in themselves. Basing its figure
on information from the F. 8.1.,
a U.S. Congress committee lately
published a pamphlet stating
that “at a time of national crisis
the United States would have
nearly 825,000 persons who are
either spies, traitors or saboteurs
working against it from within.”
The most sinister part in that,
with its Australian application,
is that there are not more
than 74,000 actual Cornmunist-
party members in the U.S. But
“for every party member there
are 10 others ready, willing and
able to do the party’s work.”
What is being reluctantly con-
cluded is that there must be
an overhaul of such democratic
concepts as tolerance of anything
merely because it may affect to
have a political character.
“For years,” David Lawrence
comments on this in N. Y. “Sun,”
“a spirit of tolerance toward
soapbox orators has been the
pride of America and Britain.
Now, however, another element
—another fear—has crept into the
situation. The American Com-
munists and the British, French
and Italian followers of the party
line have convinced their fellow-
citizens that the arguments made
are not those of a particular
philosophy, but are in reality
words directed by another Gov-
ernment.”
Lawrence was referring to
Communists “who have publicly
stated that, in case of war, they
would not fight to defend their
own countries, but would give
aid and comfort to enemy
troops.” Regarding those fifth-
column utterances, “Wall-street
Journal’s” Joseph E, Evans, who
for the last few years has been
watching the Soviet moves at
close quarters in Berlin, has
noted that “the Soviet Union has
now officially aligned itself with
the Comrades in a score of
nations who recently suggested
the possibility of a Russian in-
vasion of Western Europe,”
Communist leaders in chorus
stating that they would welcome
the invaders with open arms
(naturally, they did not speak of
them as “invaders”; in their
singular jargon they pictured
them as “pursuers” of “aggres-
sors”). Evans commented:
“In the Red Army newspaper
in Berlin, the Soviets matter-of-
factly announced that, in event
of war, they would ‘naturally’
have to pursue the ‘aggressor’
through certain countries this
side of the iron-curtain.
“This casts a slightly different
light on those statements of
Communist leaders in France,
Italy, Britain and elsewhere, in
which the Red Army was wel-
comed in advance as a liberat-
ing force.” At the time this rash
of preliminary greetings de-
veloped, the emphasis was on
their treasonous import; in
Evans’s view, based on his close
personal experience, the em-
phasis should rather have been
on the traitorous chorus indicat-
ing a definite ominous threat of
invasion of Western Europe by
the Red Army.
“Soviet pressure—as opposed
to threats—is for the moment
mainly concentrated on regions
outside the Atlantic Pact —Iran
and Finland, for example.” It
is not likely to stop there. “Con-
stantly - shifting Soviet tactics
should not obscure the fact that
it remains of vital interest to the
Soviet Union to capture, one way
or another, the countries of
Western Europe. More imme-
diately, the prestige of Soviet
Communism throughout the
world demands some kind of re-
taliation against the Atlantic
Pact, which, if allowed to come
to fulfilment, spells a kind of
spiritual defeat for the Kremlin.
“What the Atlantic Pact thus
has produced is a contradictory
—and potentially very dangerous
—situation. On the one hand,
it is a war-deterrent, as its sup-
porters claim. It is that because
the Soviet Union almost cer-
fainly will not intentionally
commit an act of aggression
which it knows will immediately
involve it .in a war with the
United States.
“The fact is that an Atlantic
Pact backed up by the rearma-
ment of the Western world is
much more likely to egg the
Soviet Union on to shows of
bravado than it is to make it
more malleable to Western per-
suasion. The danger is precisely
in this chip-on-the-shouldfer
psychology—that one time one
of those shows of bravado will
go farther than the performer
meant, and the next war will be
upon, us.”
Both America and, with less
fuss, Britain have already made
the arrangements for handling
—Chicago "Tribune”
NEW SHERIFF: “ Who are all these graves for — desperadoes?”
HISTORY: "Oh, no! These are former sheriffs.”
their Com. fifth-columns in that
event. The real danger would,
of course, be in France and
Italy, where the Soviet-obeying
fifth-columns are numbered in
millions.
Smuts on Empire.
Even more downright than
the views of R. G. Menzies
lately given here, General
Smuts’s views, as expressed in a
statement he recently issued in
Capetown, “in response to ques-
tions from many thoughtful
people,” leave no doubt about
what the grand old Boer thinks
of the moves to erect a ram-
shackle half-and-half structure in
place of solid Empire or Com-
monwealth :
“There is no middle course
between the Crown and a repub-
lic, between in and out of the
Commonwealth. You are either
in or out, and if you choose to
be out of it you are out entirely
and not on terms that can be
devised....
“If in some nebulous way you
can be both in and out the
whole concept of the Common-
wealth goes and what remains is
a mere name without substance.
“The Commonwealth is held
together by the Crown, from
which follows that common
status and profound sentiment
which is the soul of the Com-
monwealth. In theory the king-
ship is all, and from it follows
the rest. Strike out the King and
the rest disappears—common
allegiance and common
status ;
“Great care should be used
not to empty the Commonwealth
concept of all substance and
meaning, It would be better to
drop it altogether. But what a
loss that would be! The clear
concept of the Commonwealth
should be left intact and not be
merged in vague relationships.”
Grim in Berlin.
Despite the wonderful job
done by the air-lift, it’s been a
grim winter in Berlin, rationing
on the Western side including
251 b. of coal for the entire win-
ter, electricity strictly limited to
a few hours each evening, and
not enough gas to cook the food
ration, which in itself has been
poor and slim enough.
Despite all that, a Berlin cor-
respondent of N, Y. “Times” re-
ports that West Berliners still
consider life maintained by the
air-lift as the lesser of two evils.
“Their cynicism and. distaste
for Russian actions has never
been greater. But,” he adds,
“those who say this admit
frankly that large numbers will
go over to the Russians to ob-
tain coal, food and other neces-
sities if’the city has to be sup-
plied by the air-lift through
another winter.”
Cardinal's “Con-
fession."
Quoting in support other
cases of his experience, former
Premier of Hungary, Ferenc
Nagy, who fled to the U.S. to
escape exactly the fate that was
inflicted on Cardinal Minds-
zenty, has declared in a “Life”
article that the Cardinal’s amaz-
ing “confession” was brought
about not only by torture but
by drugs.
Nagy stated that he and every-
one else who knew the Cardinal
knew him as “one of the bravest
men of our age,” and “everyone
knew, when on December 26 he
marched to prison, with his head
held high, that he was proud of
his beliefs and ready to sacrifice
his very life for the Christian
ideals he represented.”
Yet five weeks later the same
man could be brought into court
to make a “confession” which
made him appear a turncoat and
weakling.
“It is my belief,” Nagy stated
in his article, “that the will-
power and reasoning power of
Cardinal Mindszenty were de-
stroyed by drugs, probably
placed in his prison food. I base
this belief upon my knowledge
of Communist police methods in
Hungary and elsewhere. The
world on this side of the Iron
Curtain wonders what tortures
or methods exist which could
possibly bring about a complete
change of personality. Incred-
ible as it may seem, the Com-
munists have, in fact, discovered
processes by which a man’s soul
can be torn apart and put to-
gether again.”
Starving Greeks.
A “Christian Science Moni-
tor” Athens correspondent,
lately quoted here, summed up
on the misery inflicted on a
large proportion of the Greek
people by the guerrilla warfare
directed from Moscow as being,
by the twisted Soviet reckoning,
a punishment of Greece for re-
fusing to bow to the Kremlin.
How successful the wretched
policy has been in that respect is
shown by a recent report from
Greece in London “Times” that
the registered number of Greek
refugees is now 666,000; “but
there are thousands who are not
registered, arid the U.N. agencies
estimate the total at nearer
I,ooo,ooo—one-seventh of the
total population.”
They are living in misery and
are undernourished. After the
rigors of a bitterly cold winter
they are now faced with the
danger of disease during the
summer months. “The Greek
State is doing its best with its
meagre resources, but the U.N.
relief organisations described
the problem as ‘far beyond the
resources which Greece itself
had or were available to it from
any other source.’ ”
“Tailism.”
in the trial of the 11 top-dog
Corns in New York charged with
conspiring to bring about violent
revolution in the U.S., the Judge
asked for a glossary “to explain
international Communist
language.”
“I notice,” he said, “they have
a curious way of expressing
themselves in these articles and
resolutions. It seems like some
special jargon.”
Glossary duly supplied by
prosecuting counsel and wit-
nesses, one of the quaintest bits


Schweppes
LIME JUICE
CORDIAL
IN THE
NEW PACK
MADE
SOLELY
FROM
m
m
y
fiS
SMS
SCHWEPPES
i
V>.v.
m
£ a
MONTSERRAT
LIME JUICE
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING STORES
of jargon in it the word “tail-
ism,” with this definition:
“A common party expression
meaning to hang on to some-
body else’s coat-tails or follow
somebody else’s leadership. Earl
Browder, ousted from U.S.
Com. party leadership in 1945,
was accused of ‘chronic tailism”
with respect to President Roose-
velt.”
“Tailism” is plenty bad
enough for the backsliding Com-
rade accused of it; but in the
Corns’ glossary there’s a far
worse “ism”—namely, “revision-
ism.”
This, as defined for the en-
lightenment of the Judge, “con-
sists of all the errors that flow
from a belief in peaceful pro-
gress toward Socialism or to-
ward whatever the future may
hold in social progress. It is
used against anyone who differs
from the Marxist-Leninist posi-
tion that the sole way to pro-
gress is by violent revolution,
smashing the apparatus of the
capitalist State and setting up a
dictatorship of the proletariat.
This can lead to all sorts of tac-
tical mistakes, including the
softening of class antagonisms,
adopting peaceful methods, re-
fusal to turn ‘imperialistic’ war
into civil war and refusal to turn
against one’s own country if it
is engaged in ‘imperialistic’ war.”
Critics of the Pact.
Mr. Churchill’s strongly-urged
advice on his recent visit to
America —not to spread the
Atlantic Pact out too thin —is
one of the themes of London
“Economist,” voicing representa-
tive British and Western Euro-
pean views and criticisms.
One view supported is that
membership—or at any rate the
central membership—of the pact
should have been restricted to the
U.S. and. Canada on the one
hand, and Britain, France, the
Benelux' countries and Norway
on the other, this group of eight
comprising countries already
closely knit together by political
ties and defence arrangements.
Politically and strategically the
group is compact and stable,
“even when allowance is made
for the strength of the Com-
munist party in France.”
The political and military
effort should be concentrated in
this group, “for the sake of effi-
ciency as well as speed.” The
principle behind the inviting in
of other countries—Denmark,
Iceland, Italy and Portugal—is
obvious. If it is desired to
deter an aggressor by making it
clear in what countries America
deems itself to have a vital in-
terest, then it is as necessary to
warn him off Turkey and Persia
as it is to warn him off Norway
and France. Logically, there is
no reason why the warning
should not cover the Indian
Ocean and the whole of the
eastern Mediterranean.
Practically, however, such an
extension would be wasteful and
dangerous. “There is a limit to
the number of countries whose
forces can be efficiently in-
tegrated ; there is a limit too —
and a tighter one than may be
generally believed —to the mili-
tary supplies which America can
quickly send to its allies. Above
all, the dispersal of American
resources is the wrong answer to
the concentration of Russian
strength.
“Why not, therefore, maintain
in principle a distinction which
must exist in fact: between coun-
tries which can contribute to
the pact something to offset the
liability they create by joining it,
and those whose membership
represents an addition* to the ob-
ligations of the group without
any corresponding addition to its
strength?
“It is difficult to see, for ex-
ample, what Italy can contribute
to the pact: if it is to be pro-
tected against attack from out-
side, its geographical position
opposite the Balkans, its strong
Communist party (recently
pledged to act as a fifth-column)
and its small armed forces,
limited by a treaty to which
Russia is a party —all these
amount to. pure liability.”
The pact is an agreement, as
Article 3 insists, for “effective
self-help and mutual aid.”
This the “Econqmjst” con-
tends, should be the test. There
should be one list of members
(substantially complete already)
who can meet the test (including
the word “effective”) without the
need for polite equivocation, and
another list of countries, includ-
ing Western Germany, whose
territories are guaranteed by all
the members of the Atlantic
alliance, but who are not —for
the present, at least —invited into
the inner counsels of the alliance.
This distinction between the
inner and outer circle is, anyway,
bound to arise in practice.
“The argument against any
dispersal of the available military
forces and supplies is too strong
to be ignored.”
Then there is the point of view
frequently met in France and
Belgium that by security
Western Europe understands
adequate protection against in-
vasion, not the promise of even-
tual liberation. “If that protec-
tion cannot be given, it would
prefer the risks of attempted
neutrality to the risk of provok-
ing invasion by accepting an
American guarantee similar to
that given to Poland by Britain
in 1939....
“The basic American idea is
right; to provide the maximum
deterrent by collective action, to
discourage local aggression by
the threat of world war, and to
disarm the Communists by
achieving economic as well as
military security.
“This is the strategy of cold
war, not the strategy of generals
of infantry and artillery. But
even cold war needs forces in re-
serve—just in case; the Com-
munist cold war has owed much
of its success to the fact that the
Red Army stands 600 miles west
of the Soviet frontier. The
Western cold war, too, needs the
presence in Europe of the troops
of a great Power —American
troops or troops under American
command The demand that
American and British divisions
—not battalions —should be seen
training in Western Europe will
persist.”
Regarding the criticism that
the Atlantic Pact will provoke
Russia to pass from cold war to
the real thing—a fear expressed
by critics in America as well as
in Europe—the answer is in the
text itself. It is the avowed pur-
pose of the pact to do no more
than provide through collective
effort the defensive strength
which the Western countries
could provide on their own only
at the risk of economic collapse.
The North Atlantic Council will
be planning to avoid war, not to
prepare for it.
To those in the Soviet sphere
who doubted whether the Ameri-
can sponsors of the pact had
public opinion behind them, “the
answer has been given in black
and white. Hitler had in 1939 the
certainty—in the black and white
of the neutrality acts —that
America would not intervene if
he went to war. Mr. Stalin in
1949 has the certainty of the
exact opposite.”
Wheat Gimmicks.
Taking a firm grip of its nose,
N. Y. “Daily News” has
examined the recently-concluded
International Wheat Agreement
and found in it more than it
liked of what it calls “gim-
micks,” which might be freely
translated as camouflaged snares
and pitfalls, in regard to which
Australia, as one of the supply-
ing countries, is in practically
the same boat as the U.S.:
“The general idea is that big
wheat-growing countries the
U.S.A., Canada and Australia,
for example —are to export
definite yearly quotas of the
grain to wheat-deficient nations
like Great Britain, Belgium and
Brazil
“The United States is to ex-
port a total of about 168,000,000
bushels a year, Canada about
203,000,000, Australia 80,000,000,
France around 3,500,000 and
Uruguay almost 2,000,000.
Wheat-takers total 37 countries.
The amounts they are to buy
from the five producers range
from about 117,000,000 bushels
for Great Britain to 36,000 for
Liberia.
“Ceiling price: $l.BO a bushel.
Bottom price: $1.50. to be re-
chlCed at 10c intervals to $1.20
for the crop year 1952.
“That is where the first gim-
mick comes in. The U.S. sup-
port price, guaranteed by our
Government to our farmers, is
$2 a bushel at present. So, as
long as the support price stays
above the I.W.A. price our tax-
payers will be partially subsidise
ing these exports of wheat.
“Another gimmick consists in
— N. Y. “Daily Mirror .”
THE MAIN ATTRACTION AND THE SIDESHOW.
the fact that, according to in-
formed Government sources, the
I:W.A. contains nothing man-
datory. The wheat-importing
nations are not compelled to
take U.S. or Canadian or Aus-
tralian wheat in the quantities
specified by the I.W.A. They
are morally obligated to do so,
but apparently that is all.
“So any of these nations could
welsh on its agreement, offering
any excuse it pleased.
“The matter becomes a good
deal more sinister when you
consider that Russia and Argen-
tina refused to adopt the I.W.A.
Both are big wheat-producers.
In effect, they are sitting this
one out and reserving all rights
to undersell the I.W.A. wheat-
exporting nations.
“These features of the agree-
ment look pretty dangerous—
dangerous to the U.S. taxpayer,
that is, though highly beneficial
to Russia, Argentina and the 37
nations which may live up to
their promises but don’t have to
do so if they can buy cheaper
wheat from non-I.W.A. sources.”
Dragnet Digest.
Modem Samsons. —On the gamut
of “State controls,” “planned econo-
mies” and the like, “Saturday Even-
ing Post” epitomises: “Like the
jawbone of an ass, a table of figures
is a formidable weapon in clever
hands.” '
* * * *
Padlocked Paradise. —Mr. Churchill,
in an American interview, puffing an
enormous cigar and looking away
through the smoke-rings to the
“Soviet Paradise” or Bear-pit: “It’s
extraordinary that in this Communist
‘paradise’ they are afraid to open
the doors for fear that all the cherubs
will fly out, or at least those with
wings.”
* * * *
The Soviet Hierarchy. —ln a quoted
U.S. State Department view the
shuffling of Kremlin top dogs a little
time back certainly did not spell
liquidation for Molotov, Mikoyan
and others. The quoted State Depart-
ment source cites the following order
of importance after Stalin on the
basis of recent listings in “Pravda”:
Molotov, Malenkov, Beria, Voroshi-
lov, Mikoyan, Kaganovich, Shvernik,
Bulganin, Khruschchev, Kosygin.
According to this, Molotov, although
he was replaced as Foreign Minister,
is still No. 2 man and the leading
candidate to succeed Stalin.
* * * *
Careful Com. —Maybe recalling that
they have an efficient way of doing
things in Canada, that country’s
chief Com., Tim Buck, showed con-
siderable restraint when his counter-
parts in France, etc., were parroting
advance welcome to the Red Army.
“If war breaks out,” said Comrade
Buck, “what I and other Communists
in Canada will do mil depend on the
circumstances—how it comes and who
will be fighting.” Tim’s a goner;
they’ll liquidate him for a cert.
* * * *
Red Chinese. —On the suggestion,
still quaintly made, that Chinese
Corns are not as other Corns,
“Christian Science Monitor’s” chief
Far Eastern correspondent Gordon
Walker reports from Tokyo: “Here
in Japan there is no question about
the coloring of the Chinese Com-
munists. They are a very deep hue
of red.” What is in question is “the
degree to which Chinese Communist-
leader Mao Tse-tung will submit to
Russian dictatorship. It appears fairly
certain that Mao would prefer to
avoid strong ties with Russia, at least
to the extent of submitting to Russian
policy-domination.”
* * * *
U.S. Unemployment Rising. —While
no publicity has been .given yet to
the figures, unemployment in the U.S.
has been showing a marked increase.
Quoting official figures “from one of
the Government agencies,” N. Y.
“Joumal-American” financial editor
Leslie Gould puts the present total
at 4,447,000, compared with 670,000
in 1944 and 1,941,000 last December.
* * * *
Czech Arsenal. —In a well-informed
article on Czechoslovakia as it is
today, Maurice Feldman, in N. Y.
“Herald-Tribune,” declares: “That
Czechoslovakia has already been con-
verted into one huge industrial war-
camp, supervised by the Soviet
Union, is no longer a secret. Non-
Communist foreigners are nof per-
mitted to go through such plants as
the Skoda works, chemical factories
and mines. Only recently Czecho-.
Slovakia’s Prime Minister Antonin
Zapotocky made it clear that his
country has to devote all efforts to
producing more essential materials
for the defence of the ‘Socialist
Motherland,’ meaning, of course,
Soviet Russia.”
* * * *
U.S. Aids the Corns. —China’s
Corns should be, and no doubt are,
very grateful to Uncle Sam for his
decidedly unintentional aid. Accord-
ing to a report in Washington
“Post,” Maj.-Gen. Barr, who has
watched U.S. interests in China for
the past year, told the U.S. Senate
on his return the other day that “an
estimated 90 per cent, of all Americar
military aid to Nationalist China
was taken by the Communist armies.”
There was a fair bit of it—more than
$2,000,000,000 in military and eco-
nomic aid since VJ-Day. In addi-
tion, Chiang’s side was allowed to
buy at very low prices another
$1,000,000,000 in supplies.
* * * *
S’Africa With the West. —Come a
war with Russia, South Africa will
be, in the words of its present Prime
Minister, Dr. Malan, “unitedly with
the Western nations.” Malan pointed
out that “South Africa’s desire to
strengthen the Western nations was
the reason why she had supplied air
crews for the Berlin air-lift.” On
the Empire connection, about which
there were considerable doubts when
Malan’s party took over from Smuts,
the P.M. added that his party “de-
sired to maintain the connection with
the Commonwealth on the under-
standing that South Africa was a
sovereign independent State which
was free, should it so desire, to
become a republic.” That, of course,
is its actual position, anyway.
* * * *
Pact Result. —Already one vitally
important accomplishment has been
chalked up as a direct result of the
signing of the Atlantic Pact: the
U.S.-British-French agreement on
policy for Germany. For France,
M. Schuman commented when that
agreement was surprisingly quickly
reached: “It is certain that what we
have done today could not have been
done a year ago by any French
Government.” On which the London
“Times” Washington correspondent
commented that it could probably
not have been done even a month
before the great pact was signed.
* * * *
Portuguese Free Medicine. A
Chicago visitor to Portugal, inter-
viewed on his return by the Chicago
“Tribune”: “In the bigr cities like
Lisbon they have the territory divided
into ward-like districts, with a doctor
designated by- the Government —that
is, by politics—in charge of each
district. And the rule is you have to
go to the doctor in your district no
matter what’s wrong with you, no
matter whether you know anything
about him, like him or have any
confidence in him or not. If you
want to go to another doctor you
have to pick one in another district
or ward. In that event you have to
get permission in writing from the
doctor in your own territory, and if
he refuses —as he’s likely to do be-
cause he’s paid on the basis of his
number of patients—you have to go
to the Government: that is, to some
politician and go through endless red-
tape.” But so it must be wherever
the “benefits” of socialised medicine
are imposed.


t
HOMF-IIGHTiNG BATTERIES TO FULFIL EVERY
LIGHTING NEED —BACKED BY 61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE.
ţ
JtHU.H
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
The Bishop of London, Dr. Wand,
formerly of Brisbane, took his mitre and
cope afloat to hallow the old Admiralty
sloop Wellington in the Thames the other
day. The sloop’s new capacity will be
as h.q. ship and livery-hall of the Master
Mariners’ Company, making the com-
pany unique in that respect; it’s the only
company of the City of London having
its hall outside the city precincts. The
news will probably make the collective
mouths of Sydney’s M.M. Association,
which reunions in a city cafe, water like
scuppers.
Off to Scotland Yard to learn what the
world’s finest detecting force has to tell
them, particularly in scientific crime-
nipping, Inspectors T. Harold and F.
Bischof, of Brisbane. Both outstanding
men, Harold is in charge of the metro-
politan district; Bischof, of C. 1.8., has
had his new rank a matter of weeks.
How many new-look secretaries have
heard of “stenographic soundhand”? It
was the name Sir Isaac Pitman first gave
the system he invented in 1837, which has
since wriggled round the world. His grand-
son, another Isaac, is here now on a lec-
ture tour. Conservative member for Bath
in the Commons, he has a passion for
purging English of its unphonetic spelling,
and brought in a Spelling Reform Bill
which, with G.B.S.’s support, nearly got
through—voting, 84 to 87. The present
Isaac was a director of the Bank of Eng-
land, is the first director of Organisation
and Methods at the Treasury (appointed
to disentangle the public service from its
red-tape), and believes that his grand-
dad’s invention was the greatest single
act of emancipation of women in the
19th century —it gave them economic
independence of man by opening the
way into business. He writes faultless
shorthand himself, can even take down
Chinese in it, and made a good fist of
winning the middleweight Public Schools’
title in 1919 and of playing Rugby for
England against Scotland in 1922. He
has associations with Australia —his
great-uncle Jacob brought stenographic
soundhand to S.A. in 1838, the year after
it was invented.
Missionary Frank Laubach, landed in
Darwin from America, is a man with a
mission—and a message. A special
counsellor of the World Literacy Com-
mittee, formed by leading American
churches to reduce world illiteracy, he
claims the committee has taught 250 mil-
lion people to read, and he hopes to
confer the same benefit on Binghi and
Mr. Ward’s wards in New Guinea. His
method is to find the phonetic alphabet
of a language and illustrate each letter
with an animal or other sketch, which
gives the native a commencing knowledge
of reading in about four weeks. He has
visited most countries, but was refused
entry into Russia.
“P.C.”: G, K. Chesterton proved that
pigs could fly; Gordon Blythe, a Wes-
trahan pastoralist, hopes to extend the
category to beef-cattle. On May 2 his
Airbeef co. will begin flying carcasses
190 miles to Wyndham from the h.q.
station of Glenroy, in the Kimberleys.
At present the abattoirs are at Wyndham,
but the erection of a slaughter-house at
Glenroy will save the beasts the severe
trip across; D.C.-3’s will lift the car-
casses in a couple of hours to Wyndham.
So far as is known the only precedent
for flying beef in bulk was set in Bolivia.
The local experimenter hopes to lift
4500 carcasses this season by planes
making three trips daily, using a Civil
Aviation Department’s aeradio station at
Glenroy to home them across the Kim-
berleys. Blythe knows the north-west
well, and knows what he is up against.
In his effort he will have plenty of
people in Britain to cheer him on.
A team from the R.A.F, Central
Bomber Establishment in England will
leave shortly on a three-weeks’ mission
to the U.S. and Canada to talk about the
latest bomber tactics and theory. Its
leader is Maorilander Group-Captain D.
Barnett, C.8.E., D.F.C., a Dunedin man.
He joined the R.A.F. in 1929 after three
years with the Cambridge Uni. Air
Squadron.
Melbourne’s selection for the next
Olympic Games is a personal triumph for
Ted Doyle. One-time editor of Mel-
bourne “Argus,” he has been one of the
hardest battlers in the city’s Olympic bid.
With contacts in the printing trade, he
produced three first-class books bolster-
ing the city’s claim, which went to
most overseas countries. His latest folder
is possibly the 1 finest collection of Mel-
bourne photographs yet produced ; a copy
was handed to every delegate at the
International Olympic Committee which
made the decision in Rome.
“C.M.K.”: Every man, like every rope,
has his breaking-strain. Tom Langridge
reached his at 62, after 35 years of re-
lieving it in others. Physical adviser and
masseur to practically every athlete of
eminence who visited Australia in that
period—cricketers, footballers, riflemen,
baseballers and even the Palestine Police ;
altogether enough sportsmen to make a
sizeable sporting Who’s Who —he received
from them testimonials that would just
about paper his institute in Sydney, and
it’s the largest of its kind in the southern
hemisphere. Schooled in England, but
born here, he returned to 10 years’ mas-
sage experience in Sydney hospitals, be-
fore opening a small gym. on what’s now
McDowell’s stand. He was official mas-
seur to N.S.W. Cricket Association and
examiner to the Australian Olympic
Federation and the Empire Games Asso-
ciation. Patients of 500 doctors were on
his regular list, among them crippled
children, from many of whom the only
payment asked was “thank you.” Active
to the end, he was massaging an elderly
patient when caught himself by the
heart-attack that finished him the next
day.
When a Bulletin man and Prior
called on Ted Warren, new chairman of
the Northern Collieries Prop. Association,
the subject was comparatively loafing—
only one mine was idle that morning.
Joining J, and A. Brown Collieries (he’s
now g.-m.) as office rouseabout in
1914, before he had a vote he was headed
for Gallipoli—a circumstance of which
his two teen-age sons were to remind him
when Hitler broke loose. Warren knows
the “underground” of Europe; on a six-
months’ tour last year he inspected its
shafts in England and Holland, and
crawled in Germany’s, some of which are
21in. high. At the moment his main in-
terest is a new open-cut scheme at Minmi,
outside Newcastle, where a British concern
hopes next month to begin cutting, with
COAL MAN.
mechanical extraction and 50 men, as
much coal as 600 men hew underground.
Sydney reads about the latest mine-
stoppages in its afternoon papers;
Warren’s on-the-spot superintendent, a
man named Currey, phones him the bad
news every morning before breakfast.
Once, staying with a friend, Warren
was asked if he’d like curry for break-
fast. His reply is obvious he’d had
Currey.
Being born under Pisces, it was fore-
ordained that Commodore W. A. Dall-
meyer, D. 5.0., R.N., should take to the
sea and specialise in tin-fish. A torpedo
and anti-submarine expert, he served in
some of the Royal Navy’s famous ships,
beginning with Royal Sovereign—recently
returned from Russian hands, and in
which a fellow-snotty was H. B. (now
Rear-Admiral) Farncomb Warspite,
carriers Eagle and Furious, cruiser Exeter
TIN-FISH COMMODORE.
(lost with Perth in the Java Sea), Renown,
the ex-Australian seaplane-carrier Alba-
tross and his own destroyer Highlander.
He had this boat in the Norway cam-
paign, and was screening carrier Glorious
just before the Scharnhorst sent that ship
to the bottom. Dallmeyer had his revenge
when Highlander caught a U-boat in the
Atlantic, opened her with depth-charges
and picked up 20 of her crew —the
captain was the man who torpedoed
Empress of Britain. After driving fleet-
carrier Venerable in the Pacific, the com-
modore took charge of the minesweeping
school on the Firth of Forth, where the
men responsible for weeding the vast
undersea mine-gardens sown in the war
were trained. Just over a year ago he
came to Australia to superintend train-
ing at Flinders. He represents for the
Navy at golf in the inter-services sports.
W. T. (Billy) Albert, The Bulletin’s
New York representative, is revisiting
Australia after a long absence. He was
warmly entertained in Sydney last week
by members of the Inch Club, which he
founded.
“C.R.”: The writer of the par. on
Harold Blair (B. 13/4/’49), in crediting
Harold Elvins with his tuition, fell be-
tween too many Harolds. His only
teacher has been Harold Browning, of the
Melbourne Conservatorium of Music (its
director was Harold Elvins up to his
death 10 years ago.) Browning is an
Englishman who took up residence in
Melbourne 20 years back, and his strop-
ping of the voice of the first aborigine to
approach international standards lasted
three years. One of Blair’s talents was
linguistic ; he learnt French, Italian and
German with the same aptitude as singing.
Don B. Knock, co-director and editor
of “Australian Radio and Television
News,” a new monthly published in Syd-
ney, was Bulletin radio editor for
years and also edited its “Australian
Radio News.” A chunky and genial
Lancashireman, Knock saw service with
the R.A.F. in the Middle East during
World War I, and was a marine engineer,
radio technician and 8.8. C. engineer
before coming to Australia 25 years ago.
Known to radio men internationally as
VK2NO, he has been mixed up with
wireless for nearly 40 years, has been
technical editor of “Wireless Weekly,”
“Radio in Australia and New Zealand”
and “Radio Monthly,” and was an Army
sigs. major in the recent scrap. Asso-
ciated with Knock in the new venture
is Bert Hay, who lately returned to Aus-
tralia after an absence of 22 years and
with a wide experience in the ether-wave
world.
In Brisbane to take some of the weight
from Archbishop Duhig’s shoulders, Dr.
P. O’Donnell, the city’s new Coadjutor
Archbishop. A blithe spirit, he hails
from Tipperary, was schooled at an'
Augustinian monastery founded in the
12th century and before heading north
to Bananaland was Vicar-General of the
Sale diocese in Victoria.
Anybody feeling too old at 60, can
take heart from the indestructible Ernie
Old, Victoria’s veteran cyclist, who
recently started pedalling from Parlia;
ment House steps, Melbourne, after a
handshake with Premier Hollway, to
carry a letter to Premier Hanlon and
attend the Brisbane Exhibition. Seventy-
four, Old broke push-bike records in his
youth and easily heads the record for
long-distance riding in his “old” age. He
has circumnavigated the continent and last
year cycled from Melbourne to Perth;
and back, 4000 miles in 62 days ; by way
of a rehearsal, he did the 6000 miles
from Melbourne to Darwin and return
in 56 days, hiding occasionally to avoid
friendly offers of lifts from motorists.
The present marathon is a curtain-raiser
to a ride from ’Frisco to New York, in
July.
John McNamee, Old Digger, is not
the first to win an American D.S.M.; but
he must be the first to wait 25 years for
its presentation. A Light Horseman
from Queensland, he was at the Land-
ing, caught a nasty one at Quinn’s Post,
left his English hospital for a commis-
sion in the British Army, went to France
in a secret gas-warfare unit of the Royal
Engineers and received four gunshot
wounds, a peppering from shrapnel' and
M.C. from the King In 1917 he was
attached to the First U.S. gas regiment
to teach offensive gas warfare, and the
uncommonly good job he made of it, ini
particular his supervision of the gas
operations in the Meuse-Argonne drive,
brought him a recommendation, through
General Pershing, from President Wilson
for the D.S.M. With the cease-fire and 1
the resulting disbandment, McNamee’s
file went to the U.S. War Department,
and all efforts to find him failed until
the Americans re-established personal
contact on their entry into the s.-w.
Pacific area in World War 11. A few
weeks ago Captain Robert Metcalf, the
only serving U.S. Army officer still in
Australia, pinned the delayed-action gong.
The Reaper has claimed T. C. Beirne,
the kindly Irishman who landed in Mel-
bourne from County Roscommon in
1884, joined Foy and Gibson’s, headed
north to Brisbane and in The Valley
there opened a 24ft.-wide shop and
fathered it into one of the biggest em-
poriums in the State. He was chairman
of the Brisbane board of A.M.P. when
the co. loaned the money to build the
Story bridge, and was a Legislative
Councillor from 1905 until that show
was abolished 17 years later. A helpful
Carnegie to Queensland Uni. —its School
of Law was established with his £20,000
gift—for 13 years he was Warden of its
Senate, in 1941 handing over to his son-
in-law, Chief Justice Macrossan,
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 72, William Valentine
McCall, town clerk of Melbourne from 1923
to 1936, when he retired. He joined the City
Council staff in 1905 and saw the city through
the police-strike, the Centenary celebrations,
and the England-Australia air-race.
In Jo’burg, at 64, John Martin, a S’African
tycoon who controlled 16 goldmines, was a
director of the Bank of England, and managed
a newspaper-chain with links of 15 dailies and
13 weeklies. He joined the Inky Way in Vic-
toria, on the Ballarat “Star.”
At Orange (N.S.W.), on Good Friday, the
Rev. W. E. Bennett, a Methodist churchman
who took his B.A. and B.D. degrees to Fiji,
where for 13 years he was a missionary, with
five years as head of Suva’s Theological
College. A later appointment was Methodist
lecturer in the Faculty of Theology at St.
Andrew’s, Sydney Uni.
In London, at 70, Lord Uthwatt, .while sitting
on the Privy Council’s hearing of the banking-
case. Educated at Ballarat College, he went to
Oxford, where he was a Vinerian scholar, and
in World War II was chairman of the British
War Damage Commission. He was the second
Australian Law Lord; the other was Baron
Atkin, a Queenslander.
In the same week, at 68, Lord du Parcq,
while hearing the same appeal. Born in Jersey,
he also attended Oxford, and was called to the
Bar, Middle Temple, in 1906. He was appointed
a Lord Justice of Appeal in 1938, after inquir-
ing into the disorders in Dartmoor prison, and
in 1946 chaired the royal commission on
Justices of the Peace.
At Burleigh Heads (Q.), at 79, A. E. Austin,
man of mark in sport and sport-writing. He
was president of the Amateur Boxing Union,
and as “Sirdar” was qne of the best-known of
Australian racing journalists. In his time an
■ inter-State Rugby Unionite, a Brisbane aider-
man and a Boniface at Lowood.


Women’s letters
From Sydney
The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. E. C. O’Dea,
held the first meeting of the Lady
Mayoress’s Benevolent Fund in the
Town Hall last Thursday morning. This
was well attended by an enthusiastic
group of workers, and there were many
suggestions for parties to raise funds.
Among the projects was an offer by Mrs.
Hope Gibson to arrange an afternoon of
music, which will be held in the vestibule
of the Town Hall on an afternoon in
June. On the afternoon preceding the
meeting the Lady Mayoress had been
present at a card-party given for the fund
by Mrs. A. E. Graham at her Vaucluse
home. There were about 90 guests. This
year the Home for Incurables at Ryde
and the Consolation Home for the Aged
in Buckingham-street were added to the
causes to be assisted. Arrangements
have already been made for a parade of
model hats —this will take place during
the first card-party, billed for May 26.
Fort Street Girls’ High garden party
(colloquially known as Fanny Cohen’s
party) was a shining success. In bright
afternoon sunshine 4000 guests from all
over the State wandered about their old
schoolgrounds, which were a picture of
vivid green lawn and flowering borders.
Classrooms, too, were revisited by men
and women who, 40 and 50 years ago, had
been their more or less unwilling occu-
pants. In the Assembly Hall, spread with
exquisitely-embroidered cloths, fine china,
beautiful flowers and the most glittering
display of cakes seen since pre-war days,
stretched long tables. Here were seated
hundreds of former teachers and old
students. At the top table, facing her
public in a Paris frock of amethyst
chiffons, her upturned black hat graceful
with plumage, sat Miss Fanny Cohen, the
school’s headmistress. Minister for Edu-
cation Heffron was on her right, and on
her left Director of Education McKenzie.
At the same table were the wife of
Premier McGirr, Norman Mearns, of
Fort Street Boys’ High, Mrs. Heffron
and others of the distinguished.
Mr. Rumsey, who sat near by, told
tales of the days when a terrace of old-
fashioned houses and not the Bridge stood
in front of the school. In those days
as the youngsters came out of school they
could hear the cry of “Muffins! Muf-
fins!” as the muffin-man walked along,
clanging his bell. In his day, too, the
young school cadets drilled near the
“armory” with rifles from the Crimea
War. The school’s beloved Miss Turner
was surrounded all the afternoon.
Teacher Dorothy Dey was another in
demand. President of the Old Girls’ and
the Old Boys’ unions, Miss Bannen and
Mr. L. Duff respectively, were among the
speechmakers. A plaque was unveiled
and the foundation-stone of the Fanny
Cohen gymnasium was laid.
Everybody was at the International
Ball. His Highness Tunku Ahmad, a
son of the Sultan of Johore ; his wife,
H.H. Ungku Maimunah, and their
daughter, H.H. Tunku Katijah, were
there; so was Miss Australia, Beryl
James, just about to go off on her travels.
The Indian prince and his party were
the guests of Keith Brooks, of Wah-
roonga, and the ladies were gracefully
and fashionably frocked. Beryl’s frock
had flannel-flowers and gumnuts painted
on its pale-hyacinth organdie. v
The ball was one of the most colorful
held in the Trocadero this season. The
great and often sombre-looking ballroom
was a dazzling pattern of color. Consu-
lar and diplomatic groups were there in
numbers. Two striking hostesses in their
countries’ national dress were Mrs. Woo,
wife of China’s Consul-General: her
grass-green satins were embroidered in
purple and gold ; and Mrs. K. H. Rah-
man, wife of the High Commissioner for
Pakistan, wore chiffons almost fuchsia
in lone. Into the fabric was woven a de-
sign in beaten Benares silver. In Latvian
costume came Dagmar Atvars: her
black skirt was banded in bright colors.
With this she wore a white blouse, also
much embroidered ; her cap was adorned
with red and cream streamers. In the
costume of the Philippines was another'
befe Rosario Javellanos, She flashed
Vivid ‘green satins with wide butterfly
sleeves?of woven palm-fibre edged with
handmade lace. Miss Javellanos pre-
sented (flowers to the Jordan lady, who,
tfse Chief Justice, was among the
official 'figuests. The official tables were
ii by candles and banked with roses.
a and the symbol of the United
‘ins were features of the decorations.
1 ne /tKnderson lady, president of the ball-
cpmmittee, dressed her part in grace and
ffcharm and heavily-beaded chiffons. Sec-
retary Mrs. Rex Bennett added her cheery
smile and black chiffons to the night’s
doings.
% '.‘V ■ ..
A very witty, very generous and brave-
hearted woman, Gertrude Roystone
Davey, died last week in her Dee Why
home. Mrs. Davey, who had been an
invalid for years, never lost her intense
interest in the happenings, great and
small, of a world of which she had once
been so active a personality. In its early
years Mrs. Davey was a keen worker for
St. Luke’s Hospital, and she was an en-
thusiastic member of the Victoria League.
Widespread sympathy goes to her hus-
band, Mr. Roystone Davey.
Two Australian-born and -educated
ladies must be viewing the situation in
China with anxious hearts. They are
Doris and Aileen Woods, who have made
their home for many years in Kowloon,
Hong Kong. In a recent letter to Lute
Drummond they tell something of their
dire experiences when the 1941 war and
the Japanese overran the island. In that
they lost everything excepting the family
photographs, which the Japs had stacked
up neatly in a back room of their flat.
For four years they were prisoners
in Stanley Camp. Now in this uneasy
peace they are at their old jobs ; one,
Doris, is in the Hong Kong and Shanghai
Bank, where she has her own private
office and two Chinese shroffs. The other,
Aileen, is assistant programme-arranger
and typist for the local radio, Hong
Kong, and they ask nothing of life but
their jobs and a little calm and rest after
the day’s work.
They have lived 30 years in Hong
Kong, having gone there from the Castle
School in New York to teach dancing.
Their mother, pianist Maud Fitz-Stubbs,
composed charming waltzes for a former
generation—she died just before the
Japanese entered the war. Many Aus-
tralians* travelling in the East throughout
the years have known the hospitality of
their home in Kowloon.
Among books published at Easter was
one titled Dominican Pioneers in Aus-
tralia, by Sister M. Assumpta O’Hanlon,
O.P. of Santa Sabina, Strathfield. This
work has historical value, painting as it
does the growth of the order with its
many branches against a background that
shows the changing of the Australian
scene from the days of the convict-
settlement and the bushrangers’ cave and
hide-out. The order came to this country
43 years after the founding of Australia.
Here is another Australian star of
ballet in the making. She is Shirley Fraser,
younger daughter of the F. J. Frasers
of Cronulla, and has just received word
that she has been awarded the 1948
N.S.W. and Queensland scholarship of
the Royal Academy of Dancing, London.
This scholarship is valued at £250.
Shirley is a pupil' of the Frances Scully
School of Dancing. A Kingsley Watson
(Perth) photo.
What was so likeable about the Fort-
street Girls’ High centenary pageant was
that past and present pupils, teachers
and headmistress were all a part of it.
The pageant, written by Mrs. J. Hodgkins,
herself a former pupil, got off to a good
start with a procession of pupils repre-
senting the youngsters of one hundred
years ago to the present time. This
walked from the back of the hall and
paraded across the Conservatorium stage.
Una Gibson (harpist), Enid Strong
(pianist) and Margery Makin (soprano)
were some of the old-girls who took part
in the programme. Barbara Brunton-
Gibb, as “The Spirit of Fort-street,” was
the narrator. Former pupil actress Joy
Nichols, now in London, cabled her good
wishes. The costumes were a colorful
composition and true to period. The
teachers responsible for these were Miss
Katherine Crooks and Miss Ruth Trant-
Fischer. The pageant was on for two
nights. Headmistress Fanny Cohen was
equally attractive on both occasions.
From Melbourne
Gladys Ripley, one of Britain’s leading
contraltos, is now visiting Australia to
give concerts for the A.B.C. She has
sung before all members of the Royal
Family and recently sang in London with
a Danish choir before the King and
Queen of Denmark. She has also
recorded for films, and it was her voice
that “ghosted” for Elizabeth Allen’s in
“The Great Mr. Handel.” In private life
Gladys is Mrs. John Price and mother of
a schoolgirl daughter, Shirley Anne Gil-
bert. Her husband, an ex-R.A.F.
squadron-leader, is accompanying her on
this tour a§ her manager. Her first ap-
pearance here was as soloist with the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra under
Bernard Heinze in Elgar’s “Sea Pictures.”
Tall and slim, with a very expressive face
and flashing brown eyes, the singer faced
a big audience in a beautiful blue-and-
silver lame gown. From a deep square
neckline folds of the material were set
across the shoulders to form cap sleeves.
The full, graceful skirt had unpressed
pleats at one side to fall in soft folds to
the hemline. Elbow-length matching
suede gloves enhanced the ensemble.
Subject of this Broothorn study is Mrs.
G. R. Nicholas, of Toorak, who is one
of the committee which has been organis-
ing the Norma Bull Exhibition which
opens at the Town Hall on May 14. Her-
self an amateur artist, Mrs. Nicholas, ac-
companied by her husband and two small
children, has gone for a winter holiday
in Queensland, where she will record on
canvas some of the beauty spots they will
visit.
Melba is to be honored in this city by
a Sound Shell, and to raise the necessary
£25,000 for its erection the committee
has organised a preview of the film “La
Traviata.” The Columbia Film Co. have
donated the film and the owners of the
Savoy the theatre for the night of May
12. The film, which was made in Rome,
stars Nelly Coradi, of the Rome Opera
Co., as Violetta and Gina Mattera as
Alfredo. The chorus is from the Grand
Opera House, Rome. As Violetta was
one of Melba’s most celebrated roles, the
film is a happy choice to aid the Memorial
Fund. Tickets are to cost 30s. each.
Ticket secretaries are Mrs. Geoffrey
Grim wade (UY6444) and the late diva’s
granddaughter, the Hon. Mrs. William
Vestey (Lilydale 12). It is the intention
of the committee to distribute gratis a
number of tickets to students at the Melba
Conservatorium of Music.
, On the opening day of the showing of
pictures at the Melbourne Book Club by
the late William Rowell his widow wel-
comed her late husband’s many friends
in a slate-blue tweed suit worn with a
small black hat trimmed with saxe-blue
satin ribbon. Among admirers of the
artist’s works were Mrs. J. S. Mont-
gomery, platina foxes covering her grey
suit; Mrs. S. Lawrence, with black ac-
cessories for her beige gabardine suit;
Mrs. J. Evans, a visitor from Persia, in
a grey suit and small upturned matching
hat finished with pom-pom trimmings ;
Peggy Wardell, her black coat trimmed
with Persian lamb and her black hat
finished with black-and-white-checked
taffeta ribbon ; Mrs. S. F. Robertson, in
a beige coat and matching off-the-face
hat; and Mrs. George Gardener, her
blue-and-navy-check tweed suit worn
with a small navy hat.
Curtain-raiser to the opera season,
which opened with “Tales of Hoffmann,”
was the cocktail party given at the
National Theatre for the principals. The
Knox lady, whose husband is president
of the National Theatre, was a hostess
and wore with her black Persian-lamb
coat a small black hat trimmed with
black cocq feathers. Co-hostess, the
Angliss lady, highlighted her black jacket-
suit with bead embroideries. Gertrude
Johnson’s hunter’s-green coat had brown
lambswool lapels ; brown ostrich-feathers
trimmed her hat. Mrs. Horace Stevens’s
brown hat was trimmed with green
feathers ; brown-fox fur formed the col-
lar of her green coat. Etta Barnard, who
will sing in “Martha,” wore an Ameri-
can-beauty wool coat and small pastel-
pink felt beret. Mrs. William Howey’s
beige coat covered a parma-violet frock.
Mrs. Hume Cook’s ensemble was in
hyacinth - blue wool angora; black
ospreys streamed over her matching hat.
Minnie Reidy’s black-velvet frock, which
had a Chantiliy-lace yoke, was worn with
a matching bolero. Pink and black
feathers trimmed her hat.
To assist the appeal for £25,000 to im-
plement a long-range plan of modernisa-
tions and additions to their old school,
as well as for a public war memorial in
memory of the women of the Empire who
lost their lives in the Second World War
and the Isobel Henderson Kindergarten,
the Clyde Old Girls’ Dramatic Group
presented “Wise Tomorrow,” a play by
Stephen Powys, in the Union Theatre.
This was produced by Terence Crisp.
Dressing in the play was attractive.
In the first act Verity Alley wore a flowing
gown of royal-blue crepe belted in
silver. Margaret Horne portrayed a
former stage star in a stunning gown of
aqua-blue satin. To a bodice with a deep,
rounded neckline and long, fitting
sleeves was allied a graceful skirt with a
bustle. Among the pretty purveyors of
programmes, sweets and posies were
Miranda Casey, her dinner-gown of
American-beauty crepe; Kitty Synnot
in a white gown and red cordu-
roy-velvet jacket; and Pat Saenger, whose
gown was of pastel-pink lace. Jennifer
Beveridge was in the audience wearing a
sea-green taffeta ballerina frock. Mrs.
Essington Lewis donned a black, sequin-
trimmed gown and short dyed-ermine
cape. Mrs. Tony Clarke’s deep-rose bro-
cade jacket was worn over a black gown.
Mrs. Edgar Noble’s three-quarter-length
black Persian-lamb coat was over a black
taffeta ballerina frock. Mrs. Charles
Davis’s black-wool coat had a shawl col-
lar of Persian lamb.
Soon after she returned after a four
months’ trip to America with her father,
Joan Lean announced her engagement to
Robert Wallace Mitchell. Joan is the only
daughter of Mr. Richard Lean, of Caul-
field, and the late Mrs. Lean. Robert,
eldest son of Mr. and Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell, of Elsternwick, is an Old Mel-
burnian, and was a lieutenant in a para-
troop unit during the war. Joan’s engage-
ment ring is a solitaire diamond. The
wedding will take place later in the year.
At Christ Church, Skipton, Rt. Rev.
W. H. Johnston blessed the vows ex-
changed by Coralie Fairbairn, eldest
daughter of Group-Captain and Mrs. C.
O. Fairbairn, of Skipton, and David
Murray Calvert, of Tasmania, only son
of Mr. and Mrs. Colin Calvert of Somer-
set, England. The bride’s classical gown
of French silver-brocaded satin patterned
with orchids had a long train. Her family
heirloom veil of Brussels lace was held
by a half-circlet of orange-blossoms, and
she carried an ivory prayer-book with a
spray of white orchids. Bridesmaids were
Techa Matear and Franks Fairbairn, and
small attendants were Sandra McKay,
Susan Calvert, Amanda Rogers, James
Palmer, Hunter Cook and Sandy Russell,
the bride’s nephew. The bridesmaids’
gowns were of white “waffled” muslin,
and they wore red roses in their hair. The
little girls wore white muslin frocks with
wreaths of green leaves with red roses at
each side and the little boys white shirts
with rose-red velvet trousers and cum-
merbunds. Michael Wheatley was best
man and church ushers were Bill Mani-
fold, Robert Chirnside and Alistair Mac-
kenzie. Reception was held at the home
of the bride’s parents.
Unusually warm weather persuaded a
number of women to wear summer frocks
to the Charity Meeting at Moonee Valley,
but others, knowing their Melbourne
weather, stuck to the dependable, if more
prosaic, tweeds. The Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. J. S. Disney, wore a three-quarter-
length black Persian-lamb coat over a
black frock ; her small black hat had a
pastel-pink bird perched on the brim.
She was accompanied by the Wales lady,
dyed-ermine coat was worn with
a black beret. Mrs. W. S. Cox’s deep-red,
winged felt hat made effective contrast
to her grey (suit. A mustard-toned
herringbone tweed suit and brown cloche
hat comprised Mrs. Ian Bayles’s smart
outfit. Mrs. Ivor Cardan’s choice was
a tiny bkie-and-white-checked suit and a
close-fitting, sage-green felt hat. Mrs. R.
C. Hart’s black Persian-lamb-trimmed
coat was worn with a black feather-
trimmed hat. Mrs. Alison Stuart com-
bined yellow and beige checks and a
brown chiffon cloche hat, the scarf
finish of which was worn round the
throat. A coachman’s dollar was a fea-
ture of the smart black coat worn by
Mrs. Eric Greig with a black hat which
was ruched with pastel-pink velvet. The
black hat worn by Mrs. Allan McKay
with her black ensemble had pastel-blue
goose-feathers. Wife of the Moonee
Valley Racing Club's chairman, Mrs. J.
F. Feehan wore a black Persian-lamb
coat and a black hat trimmed with a
Wedgwood-blue feather.


Farmer returns to
.
Z 3
French-polishing
;... •. ■>' ' y-. ;
* A TRUE STORY
An unemployed man of nearly
forty, a paralysis case, and on
crutches, presents a difficult
employment problem, especi-
ally when his background
includes a record of failure
as a farmer and bookseller,
and he shows no clerical
aptitude of any kind.
When an applicant with these
disabilities came in to the
Commonwealth Employment
Service Office in a provincial
city, the Employment Officer
found out that twelve years
ago he had acquired some
knowledge of work connected
with French-polishing, and for
a time had worked in this
field. He therefore suggested
a return to this former
employment. But the appli-
cant was lacking in confidence,
and when an employer was
found willing to give him a
trial, he was conscious of his
lack of practice. Seeing at
once that the applicant needed
some tuition to bolster up
his confidence, the Officer
made suitable arrangements
for training with another
employer. The results were
successful and the applicant
then succeeded in doing a
reasonably good job for the
first employer, who felt that
eventually he would develop
into a competent assistant./
This is just one of hundreds
of cases recorded in the official
files, in which the Common-
wealth Employment Service
has been able to help appli-
cants with physical disabilities
to find the right kind of
employment. The advice of
experienced Employment
Officers is available, without
charge or obligation, to
employers and employees, at
branch and district offices
throughout Australia,
COMMOIffCALYH EMPtOVMtNT SERVICE
Offices throughout Australia
Consult your telephone directory for
addresses.
CES7I-62-49
v
m
I. y
y,' - m
* a
Q
m
as
THE BRAND
WITH A PEDIGREE.
PI
SELF-SUPPORTING
SPORTS TROUSERS
No Elastic to pucker or perish
ANOTHER DEPENDABLE TOP DOG PRODDCT
KEEP
BRIGHT
To look and feel
bright, clear-eyed—
full of pep and
energy all day—
every day you must
have clean bowels, a
healthy stomach,
good digestion and
regularity. Nature
sometimes needs a
little help, and Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills supply this help
without the use of
harsh, habit-forming
drugs.
For Accuracy
and Distinction ' —•
lAVINA 1
Watches =
%
-
x
17
Jewelled
' Swiss Masterpieces
with NON-MAGNETIC
ESCAPEMENT
iavma
WATCHES
Founded in 1852
L VILLERET, SUISSE _I
.LW.3
BUILD...
with concrete blocks
Concrete block* and brick*
are the ideal building 1
medium when mad* an a
'Hapid" machine. • Thaw
machine* will make alrnont
•eery type ot brick or block..
HOMES
“Rapid” machines also
make curved block*
>for Silos, Water-tanks,
etc. Various types of
Concrete Mixera
________ available.
SUE OS
• Six models available.
• Hand Bind
automatic.
• No ramming—no waiting
ior mixture to set
• Capacity 3 block* per min.
• Priced to suit the tadhrft- —_ _ _ r * m
dual home-builder. 9_li( V 9
Write for illustrated booklet past free.
Hall & Pyne Ply. Ltd.
Manufacturers of Concrete Machinery
«!o Wanre* Kd., Morrickvlll*. N.S.W. 1124*1
ť
The new Koussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands. .
Call or send stamp for details, seu,
measurement form and H Days Fret
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney^
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Source of the lines —
Thou art so truth that thoughts of thee
Suffice to make dreams truth and fables
histories.
—4625.
To buy copy of A Book for Kids
by C. J. Dennis, and A Bad Boy’s
Diary.— 4624.
Information Sought.
(1) In the case of resumption of
pastoral holdings for closer settlement
has the N.S.W. State Government
power to compensate only on 1942
value basis? (2) Has such practice
ever been legally tested by court
action ?
(1) Under the N.S.W. Closer Settle-
ment Acts, where land is compulsorily
resumed for war-service land-settle-
ment the compensation payable shall
not exceed the value of the land as
at February 10, 1942, except the value
of any improvements effected on the
land since that date. Where the land
is purchased, or where the resumption
is by agreement with the owner, a
recent amendment of the law allows
an increase of 15 per cent, above the
February 10, 1942, values. (2) No
resumption under the provisions re-
ferred to has been contested before
the court.
* * * *
In a cricket-final one of the cap-
tains questioned the size and condi-
tion of the cricket-ball used. (1) What
is the official size of a cricketyball ?
(2) When can a tised ball be
changed during a match ?
(1) M.C.C. Law 5 states: “The ball
shall weigh not less than s}oz. nor
more than sfoz. It shall measure not
less than 8 13 / 16in. nor more than
9in. jn circumference. In the event
of a ball being lost or becoming unfit
for play the umpire shall allow
another ball to be taken into use.”
Note 3 on the rule states that “any
ball substituted for one lost or becom-
ing unfit for play should have had
similar wear or use as that of the
one discarded.”
* *' * *
Following heavy rain I lost hun-
dreds of stock, snapdragon and aster
seedlings. Is there any way to safe-
guard against this loss?
These annuals wilt off quickly
under wet conditions. The moisture
sets up fungus at the roots. Apply
a mixture of strong Condy’s crystals
around each plant, followed by a
dressing of sand. The former kills
the fungus; the latter will keep the
soil-surface from setting hard and
helps to dry out the moisture. In
districts where heavy rains come
regularly, many horticulturists grow
these plants in raised beds to make
certain of good drainage. Plants
badly affected, however, should be
pulled out and burnt, and the soil
given a dressing of lime.
* * * *
In the game of cribbage 1 have
always understood that the player
playing the last card scores one for
‘ last,” but that if that card . makes
15 or 31 the “one for last’'' is
not taken. Recently I yaw it claimed
that in those circumstances three is
scored. Is this correct ?
No. Your own method is right.
If the last card brings the count to
15 or 31 the player scores two; other-
wise he scores “one for last.”
Brief Answers.
W.M.: Have searched shipping-
lists for 1854 and 1855 without
result J.C.: The weeping willow-
tree is deciduous and loses its leaves
for varying periods during the
autumn and winter months
J.C.L.: The lines are from a
Bulletin verse called “The Reform”
by “B. A. Ker” 0.R.: Orna-
mental flowering fruit-trees are classed
under the prunus heading. They are
almond (P. amygdalus), cherry (P.
serrulata), peach (P. persica), quince
(P. cydonia) and plum (Prunus). The
bright-colored flowers occasionally
set fruit, but it is valueless....
Y.F.H.: Number of players in the
football codes are: Australian Rules
18 (although 16-aside is to be tried
out in a few matches this season),
Rugby Union 15, Rugby League 13,
and Soccer 11 L.Q.: Horseracing
in Australia'was not suspended during
World Wars I and 11. Winners of
the Melbourne Cup to carry 10 stone
and over were Archer (10.2 in 1862),
Carbine (10.5 in 1890) and Poitrel
(10.0 in 1920).... K.R.: Japanese
Kudzu vine (Pueraria thunbergiana )
is the creeper known as “Jack and
the Bean Stalk.” It carries purple,
pea-shaped flowers and is perenfiial.
Seeds are obtainable at 6d. per
packet P.N.: Lala Amarnath (pro-
nounced La-lah A-mar-nahth), cap-
tain of the Indian team in Australia
in 1947-48, was born 11/9/1911,
and is a right-hand bat and bowler.
Vijay Hazare (Veejay Ha-zaree).
born 11/3/1915, is also a right-hand
bat and bowler A.M.P.: The
batsman is out should a fieldsman,
standing within the playing area, lean
against the boundary fence and catch
the ball, even though the ball has
passed the boundary Queenstown:
Depends entirely on the form of title.
In any event it will be necessary to
see a solicitor... .E.A.8.: You are
liable to return the money which you
received by mistake. Cannot see any
necessity for journey to town. Write
and ask Railways, how much they
claim they overpaid y0u....H.C.:
See solicitor and get him to draw
contract for sale and complete it.
Costs depend entirely on sale-price
of property and are fixed by scale.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. ' No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
J.E.S.: Haven’t enough crepe in
the office for the multitude of deaths
in your short story A.P.8.: To
write the good old “days of yore”
brand of poem it is only necessary to
wait until your head feels particularly
empty. The fag-end of a long,
exhausting day is the most suitable
time, and it is advisable to dip your
pen in the ink and allow it to struggle
along almost of its own accord. The
usual result resembles the first four
lines of your effort:
The moon has risen o’er the hills and
filled the world with light.
Ah! lam thinking of the Past as I sit
here to-night!
I wonder where my boyhood friends are
scattered far and wide?
And where is she who vowed to stay
forever at my side?
D.A.: In a literary way of speak-
ing, you don’t blaze; in fact, you are
only just looking for the matches to
start the fire with A.8.C.: Seems
to be no particular reason why you
should keep on scribbling. But if
you must do it, do it in ink
E.M.C.: Your yarn caused the
Religious Editor to threaten to resign.
... .Bellerive: Peace, it’s wonder-
ful:—
Feeble. Sent out for
some stimulants and assisted it gently
to the basket T.J.: Not very
entertaining... .A.M.: Not quite sea-
worthy. Put it on the slip, tinker up
spots and sail in again.
A TRANQUIL NIONT AT TARADALE.
As silent night reigned,
The moonbeams pale
Shone o’er the district
Of quaint Taradale.
In haavenly splendor
Its beams shone down
O’er the landscapes
And sleeping town.


Public Notices.
I, GUSTAV KARL KOTELMANN, of
German nationality, born at Bremerhaven-
Lehe, Germany, and resident 20 years in
Australia, now residing at 91a Brook
Street, Narembum, N.S.W., intend _ to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, VINCENT CAPUTO, of French nation-
ality, bora at Nocera, Italy, resident eight
years in Australia, now residing at 209
Marrickville Road, Marrickville, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MRS. VERA EVELYN TAYLOR late
of 83 Paine Street Maroubra Junction
NS . W .—TAKE NOTICE that HAROLD
ROY TAYLOR has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 318 of 1949 on the grounds
of your desertion for three years and up-
wards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
20th July 1949 and obtain a copy of
the petition free of charge from MESSRS.
HERON ROBERTSON PARKHILL &
ROFE, Solicitors, 12 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— (l.s. ) J. DOUGHAN, Acting
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—IN Divorce.
TO RONALD GARDNER late of Kempsey.
—TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS MINNIE
GARDNER has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 207 of 1949 against you on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 18th day of
July 1949 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS.
PRIMROSE, YOUNG & PRIMROSE,
Solicitors, 12 Castlereagh Street, Sidney.
—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
in Divorce.
TO MAY SANDERSON—TAKE NOTICE
that WILLIAM ERIC SANDERSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3723 of
1948 in the Supreme Court of New South
Wales on the ground of your adultery
with one SPERO LIVANES If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 20th July 1949
and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from MR. W. H. CLARK,
Solicitor, 841 George Street, Sydney,
New South Wales.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Acting Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RITA ADELE ANTILL late of Bondi
Junction.—T AKE NOTICE that
ROBERT GEORGE ANTILL has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 193 of 1949
on the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 6th July 1949 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from
MAURICE ISAACS & GLASS, Solicitors,
147-149 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in
Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
On to Shanghai.
“Ek Dum”: The war in China
continues in the normal air of
fantasy which marks Chinese
wars, every combatant a hero
and seen as 10 men amid the
shouting and the tumult.
Pouring through Nanking
and across the Yangtsz River
on a long front, the Communist
forces rushed on towards the
dazzling goal of Shanghai,
which, to the northern Chinese,
and especially to the Russian
element among the invaders,
must seem by reputation a Gol-
conda, a marvellous city to loot..
No trotting section of Mao’s
battalions will have failed to
hear of its opulence, and all
will be in a hurry to get there.
The road to Shanghai from
the Yangtsz is not very inviting.
From Nanking to Shanghai is
about 150 miles by airline, but,
fortunately for them, the in-
vaders do not need to travel all
that way, since the river runs to
the ocean, widening out into a
very broad stream indeed as it
approaches the Tung Hai, or
Eastern Sea, until it is almost as
wide as the Indus. The attackers
have crossed much nearer the
sea than Nanking.
Shanghai itself lies on a
peninsula between two broad
pieces of water, Hangchow Bay
on the south and the Yangtsz
estuary on the north.
On Shanghai’s Peninsula
Across the blunt inland base
of the peninsula on which it
stands is a large, fat lake called,
appropriately, Tai Hoo, along
the northern shores of which the
railway runs. The peninsula is
cut up beside into slices and
sectors by canals, creeks,
swamps and a variety of ter-
restrial formations designed to
hold water.
Out of the south side of the
Yangtsz mouth a sort of creek
runs due south forming a nice
bit of sheltered “water” —if such
it can be called, for it has a
wonderful consistency due to a
few centuries of distillation
from the local rot. Shanghai
is about 14 miles down this
creek.
A little to the north of the
Yangtsz lies the site of the
mouths of the old Hwang Ho,
the Yellow River, which has
swung itself about 400 miles
north to enter the Gulf of Chihli.
The Grand Canal runs
through the Shanghai peninsula
from Suchow —which is not to
be confused with the other
Suchow, a couple of hundred
miles away to the north on the
old Yellow River course.
The whole area between the
Yangtsz and the Hangchow Bay
and the sea is a mass of water-
ways. It is a bad place to be
loose in on a Saturday night
after the third bottle.
The peninsula is a vast alluvial
plain, varied only by the presence
of a few island peaks rising
sharply out of it, as the peaks
rise out of the Deccan in India.
It has been called the Nether-
lands of China, and much of it
is below water-level with polders
very like Holland.
Mulberries for silk, cotton and
rice and Chinese are its chief
products.
Shanghai was originally a fish-
ing village, walled in the Middle
Ages, wiped out by Japanese
pirates at least once and a junk
port when Europeans began to
go there.
In 1843 it was made a treaty
port, and, like Hong Kong a
poor fishing village, it began to
grow apace as soon as it was
under European protection.
It was gradually built into a
vast city, its Westernised section
laid out along the ribbon of the
Bund, the Thames Embankment
of the Hwang Pu. The Bund is
lined with modern stores and in-
surance buildings, many of them
built between the two wars by
German contractors. At one ex-
tremity there used to be the
French concession, with other
concessions succeeding until,
across the muddy interruption of
Suchow Creek, one cam® to the
Japanese concession. Over the
river from the Bund was the in-
dustrial suburb of Putung, which
played Pest to Shanghai’s Buda
in more senses than one.
Here, during the period of the
China war, when Chinese fought
Japs, was a delightful vantage-
point from which one might fire
unobtrusively upon civilisation
across the creek or on the Jap
warships in the Hwang Pu«
Shanghai is an expensive,
sprawling city, luxurious above
a very low level of teeming
poverty. Twenty-five years ago
it had a Parisian air, with spark-
ling glass and glittering opera,
fine bars, fine amusements and
prosperity everywhere.
In the last few years it has
given a ma'gnificent picture of
what happens to the Orient
when the naughty, slave-driving
British take their claws off their
ill-gotten gains and hand them
back to the rightful owners, the
up-and-coming Oriental demo-
crats. .
Ever since the Chinese have
had anything like “control,” im-
parts have walked abroad with
armed guards. Murder, bribery,
commercial chaos and profiteer-
ing and blackmarketing have
been rife and only slightly
checked by the recent visit of
Chiang Kai-shek’s son on a
special mission to shoot a lead-
ing profiteer and blackmarketeer
and to consign some of the worst
offenders in the place to a fate
harder than death.
Now Shanghai seems to have
seen the end of an era. Though
reportedly by-passed by the
Communist forces, its defences
are probably exaggerated, in
spite of talks of “another Stalin-
grad.” Its facilities for flight are
limited, those for loot enormous.
Europeans have been moving
out all the week in chaos, and
warships, keeping clear of an-
chorages along the Bund, have
gone to Woosung, near the
rivermouth, presumably to avoid
the danger of complications —
the Black Swan, sloop, which
was in the battle of the Yangtsz
a few days before, was about the
last naval vessel to leave.
At the week-end Shanghai
Peninsula was outflanked.
Shanghai was settling down to
defence with the Communists in
charge in Putung across the
river, hopefully looking towards
the mouth of the Hwang Pu in
the chance of help from the
clustered warships there.
The city was still “secure” ex-
cept in so far that the looters, the
strong-arm men and the currency
blackmarketeers and black-
mailers who invest Shanghai like
fleas must have been having a
time only bettered by the police,
some of whose talent is limited
to an ability to pocket more
cumshaw per minute than any
other police force in the world,
the old Marseilles variety not
excepted.
Shanghai, on the whole, is a
pretty good place to defend if
there is anything to defend it
with. But it will have to be a
better defence than that contrived
for Suchow, 50 miles west, where
the Nationalist troops claimed to
have killed up to 10,000 invaders
before retiring.
Chiang Kai-shek Emerges
On the day of the enemy ad-
vance into the Shanghai Penin-
sula Chiang Kai-Shek emerged
from his seclusion with a call to
the Chinese to defend their
homeland.
He had said no word since
January, when he supposedly re-
tired from public life to his an-
cestral estates.
Speaking from Chuchow, near
his home, he now declared that
Mao and his Communists, by
crossing the Yangtsz, would in-
volve themselves in military and
economic entanglements which
would prove their downfall.
He called on all Chinese to
“take up the struggle against
Communist totalitarianism,”
which, he said, wished to use
Chinese manpower and resources
as part of the machinery for
world conquest.
The fight is certainly far
from over if any Chinese
Nationalist forces and resources
remain in the south. After their
queer fashion, the Nationalists
may have a plan which would
not look like a plan to anybody
except a Chinese, but which may
yet be reasonably effective.
Moscow’s Orders
One question which needs
resolving is whether the U.S.S.R.
is behind the Chinese Commun-
ists. There is the usual tendency
in Moscow to scout the sugges-
tion and to infer that what is
happening is the result of an
indignant upsurge of Chinese
patriotism against the “treach-
erous bourgeois.”
The plain fact is that the Com-
munist operations of Mao have
always been openly backed by
Moscow. In 1938-39, Australian
Communist rags used to openly
admit this fact.
Indeed, the decisions and reso-
lutions of the Seventh Congress
“We Were having a game o’ roulette with it, sir—an look
what happened !”
of the Comintern, which still
govern the policy of world
Communist revolution, were
specific on the subject:
In China, the extension of the
Soviet movement and the strengthen-
ing of the fighting-power of the Red
Army must be combined with the
development of the people’s anti-
imperialist movement all over the
country. This movement must be
carried on under the slogan of the
national-revolutionary struggle of
armed people against Japanese im-
perialist enslavers and its Chinese
servitors. The Soviets must become
the rallying-centre for the entire
Chinese people in its struggle for
emancipation.
In other words, the Chinese
Communists were instructed to
follow the tactics of Communist
insurrection —to “endeavor to
turn imperialist war into civil
war.”
Russia's Intentions.
“Ek Dum”: Tass and Moscow
Radio reported on April 26 that
Russia would be willing to lift
the Berlin blockade if the Wes-
tern Powers would name a date
for the meeting of the Foreign
Ministers of the United States,
Britain, France and Russia to
discuss Germany.
Tass declared that the question
of currency would be left to be
handled by this conference.
Then it became known that
talks had been going on for a
long time in an effort to discover
whether a point of agreement
could be found. These had been
between Dr. Jessup, U.S. Am-
bassador-at-Large, and Jacob
Malik, the Soviet U.N.O. dele-
gate. On March 21 Malik de-
clared that if a date for the
Foreign Ministers’ conference
could be decided on Russia
would agree to lift the blockade
of the West if the Western
Powers would simultaneously
lift the counter-blockade of Eas-
tern Germany imposed as a re-
prisal.
The Western Powers’ repre-
sentatives met and gave an
answer which was conveyed to
Malik on April 5. It was made
very clear to the Russians that
no negotiations would be
allowed to interfere with the
Western Powers going ahead
with their plans for a Western
German Government.
A further U.S.-Russian meet-
ing was arranged for April 27.
The whole business looks like
another Russian ruse to unsettle
the Germans of the West and
to embarrass the Allies in the
creation of the Western German
State. Or it may be a prelude to
the putting forward of some
new Russian scheme for the
whole of Germany. Whatever
is in the wind, goodwill is not
behind it.
The shooting at a British
patrol last week in Berlin and
the continued vituperative note
of Soviet Union propaganda,
both from Moscow and other
centres, make it clear that, even
if 50 blockades were lifted, it
would not deflect the Kremlin
one hairbreadth from its ulti-
mate aim toward the democratic
countries of the Atlantic Pact.
The Cominform is in full
blast, most of its leading officials
at Sofia and Prague, from
Dmitrov, its head, downwards,
having been in Moscow for the
past few days during the Trade-
union Congress there, of which
Mr. Ernest Thornton was a dis-
tinguished guest.
The Cominform is now on all
fours with the old Comintern in
its organisation, with nearly 700
officials, 350 of whom are de-
voted to military matters con-,
nected with the world revolution
under a full-fledged Russian
general and four other main de-
partments, each substantially
staffed, with working head-
quarters for contact with the out-
side world at Vienna and at
Prague. The latter city seems
to be the Mecca of world revolu-
tionary organisation.
There is a constant flow of
Australians between Australia
and Prague.
Disabled Soldiers'
Clubs.
“Ek Dum”: It makes the
blood of a reasonable onlooker
boil to know that the Disabled
Soldiers’ Club —for totally dis-
abled men who have earned their
disabilities fighting for their
country —has made a public
appeal for help.
One would have imagined that,
in a civilised country which
pampers its fatted wharflaborers
and ironworkers, every city
big enough to have such a club
for such men would have one
on a thoroughly comfortable
scale, and that in towns where
there are not enough men to
form a club special attention
would be given to individuals in
order that they might have the
amenities which they have
earned.
The cost of sending one of
Dr. Evatt’s junior secretaries,
with staff, to attend the Con-
ference for the Development of
Human Rights for Mexican
Inebriates would furnish a build-
ing decently and fit it up for
suitable amusements.
The condition of affairs in
Sydney, the largest city in Aus-
tralia, is a disgrace to the
Government, to the people and
to the city.
The only gathering-place and
resting-place which these poor
lads have in the city is a for-
lorn room, cold and dismal,
which has the look of being
totally disabled itself, up near
Central railway-station.
The only thing in it which is
ample is the facility for record-
ing “departed comrades.” This
is a sort of running record with
slots to hold the name of the
next in line on a transfer-list
until names and record can be
painted onto the permanent roll.
There are going on for 2000
totally disabled soldiers in New
South Wales alone, and the
Sydney Club has about 1000
members, many of whom know
no place of recreation save the
club and enjoy no recreation or
social life save what is offered
to them there.
They have been struggling to
take over three floors of a build-
ing which they have acquired,
but costs are beyond them. They
should not have to struggle. And
it is a reflection on the generosity
of the community even that they
have to find their own premises.
The most disgraceful feature
of the position is revealed in the
fact that the association which
runs the club has a relief fund
to cover the numerous contin-
gencies which happen to disabled
men —doctors’ fees, losses which
would be abnormal to normal
people, all the things which
happen to men whom pain and
physical disability keep near the
bread-line and not very capable
of worrying about their affairs.
These things should be taken
care of for them, without their
having to take trouble about the
matter.
What are the big unions, the
homes of “mateship,” doing
about it? And what is the
Government doing about it?


SUNDRY SHOWS
"The Tempest."
In form Shakspeare’s last play
is so incredibly romantic and so
stiff with stale conventions that
it certainly wouldn’t have sur-
vived into our own times or
anybody else’s if its content had
been supplied by any other play-
wright. A story in which an
exiled ducal magician brings a
complicated cast of characters
together on a desert island, in-
cluding his usurping brother and
the king and heir of Naples;
arranges a matrimonial alliance
between his blooming daughter
•and the heir-apparent to the
aforesaid kingdom; reconciles
the various parties and produces
a ship out of his hat to take
them all back to Milan, has
elements of insanity about it.
Shakspeare poured into it an
easy handful of deathless lyrics,
much grand poetry, such a lively
picture of a shipwreck that it
seems he must have been in one,
and a pungent satire on his own
times, which were the days of
great colonial expansion.
Put on admirably by the Mel-
bourne University Drama Club
at the Union Theatre, the play
provoked much amusement. The
brutish Caliban was made a sym-
pathetic figure by Norman
Smith; Stephano, the drunken
butler, and Trinculo, the jester,
were as callous and unthinking
as Desmond Greene and Harold
Heylan could make them. Ken-
neth Lawrence’s Prospero was a
dignified magician, though a
trifle solemn.
Robin Hagerty’s Miranda was
more ethereal than Tania
McArthur’s Ariel, whose visible
demonstrations of her ability to
put a girdle round the earth in
forty minutes were unconvin-
cing. Alan Money was Ferdin-
and, the heir to the throne of
Naples. His mellifluous voice, his
gestures and his facial expres-
sions were so like Sir Laurence
Olivier’s that his presence alone
was worth the price of admis-
sion.
National Opera.
Subsidised grand opera got its
premiere at the hands of the
National Theatre Movement at
Melbourne Princess in “Tales of
Hoffmann.”
Offenbach’s opera, which he
didn’t know he’d written, has
had a tangled history. Based
on three stories by Hoffmann,
the German Poe, who dredged
out of a dissipated life some of
the most demoniac tales ever
written, it was set to his lyric
music by Offenbach, but he died
before the job was finished and
it was orchestrated by Girard,
an entirely different sort of com-
poser.
The opera was an enormous
success in Paris in 1881, and it
scored another when the diminu-
tive Dal Monte sang the part
of Olympia in Australia. Bar-
bara Wilson gave a much more
balanced performance. Having
an adequate voice but without
the ability to strike top C with
the ease of a Dal Monte she
acted the role of the automaton
brought to life by the magician
Spalanzani with such archness
and sang so nicely that she
brought the house down.
It was a night of individual
successes. Betna Pontin, as An-
tonia, the beautiful daughter of
the Councillor Crespel, who has
inherited a voice from her
mother but is too frail to use it,
looked lovely, displayed a voice
of first quality and died of gal-
loping consumption with all the
heartiness of an Italian prima
donna while the applause rolled
through the rafters.
As Hoffmann, John Dudley
kept the thread of plot running
through the stories and sang
intelligently. As the evil geniuses
Lindorf, Coppelius, Dappertutto
and Dr. Miracle, Maxwell
Cohen varied between low
comedy and farce-horror, while
veteran Frederick Collier, though
his voice has seen its best days,
lent weight to the cast as Cres-
pel.
Beethoven's Mass in D.
The final concert of Sydney’s
Orchestral and Choral Festival
was devoted to the Beethoven
D Major Mass, Op. 123.
Beethoven’s excursion into the
realm of the human voice was
the least successful of all his
activities. His only opera,
“Fidelio,” is ‘a museum-piece.
His song-cycle, “An die Feme
Geliebte,” is rarely played. Ex-
cept for the dainty “I Love
Thee” he is represented on the
singer’s concert-platforms by
only one song, the magnificent
“Adelaide,” which foreshadowed
the lied which Schubert was
soon to bring to perfection. The
orchestral parts of the Ninth
Symphony are much more
attractive than the choral sec-
tion.
The Mass, his biggest work,
has the same faults as most of
his other works where the voice
is employed. They stem from
the same reason: the greatest
symphonist wrote for the voice
simply as another orchestral in-
strument —and one that he never
understood the way Handel,
Mozart and Schubert understood
it.
This Missa Solemnis of his
bloomed slowly—too slowly.
And too much of it smells of
“I tried to get along to one of your concerts, hut I'm
always busy at night."
the lamp. The first three parts:
The Kyrie, the Gloria and the
Credo, capture little of the sub-
limity of his subject. There is
over-much shouting in full choir,
and uninspired pages of quartet-
writing which at times descends
to boredom.
The Sanctus and concluding
Agnus Dei rise sometimes to
exultation and exaltation, and it
was here, that the well-schooled
Hurlstone Choral Society and
the quartet Elsie Findlay,
Heather Kinnaird, Godfrey
Stirling and Raymond Beatty
—were heard to the best advan-
tage. The soprano was in par-
ticularly good voice. But for
the four principals generally the
vocal dividends are wretched for
the amount of work they are
called on to do.
Apart from considerations of
space in which to put orchesra
and choir, Eugene Goossens had
no hesitation in transferring their
work from the cathedral in
which Handel and Bach were
played. Beethoven’s Mass is
more suited to the concert-hall
than to a church, despite its title.
Admirers of this work claim for
it a “cosmic vastness.” Handel,
so often regarded slightingly
these days by those who profess
to have their ears attuned to
cosmic vastnesses, could only
manage in his devotional works
to string together a lot of airs
which for millions represent
sublimity in music—which ex-
plains why “The Messiah” is
sung some hundreds of times
more often than Beethoven’s
Mass.
The final of the St. Andrew’s
programmes included Handel’s
Concerto Grosso No. 12 and
the Fifth Organ Concerto —the
latter notable for improved co-
ordination between the organist,
Hugh Bancroft, and the orch-
estra —and Bach’s Second Bran-
denburg Concerto, scored for
oboe, violin, flute and trumpet.
Chief interest centred in the use
«f a B-flat piccolo-trumpet,
heard for the first time in Aus-
tralia in this work. The instru-
ment is obviously punishing on
the soloist’s respiratory system,
but John Robertson culled from
it a rich and penetrating tone.
Menuhin and Llewellyn.
Sometimes the piano appeared
to take charge and become the
centre of interest in the magni-
ficent series of Beethoven recital
by Hephzibah Menuhin and
Ernest Llewellyn at Melbourne
Town Hall. Whether that was
because of any overwhelming
superiority in his partner or to
the quality of the parts allotted
to him by the composer, prob-
ably Mr. Llewellyn knows best.
Anyway, in the opening con-
cert which dealt with the almost
adolescent works of the Man of
Bonn when he was treading in
Mozart’s footsteps, the violin
only played a secondary role to
the piano. In the second a
liaison between the two per-
formers was more apparent and
the quality of the music deep-
ened.
In the final concert the com-
bination was wellnigh perfect.
The two instruments argued,
combined and tossed the ball to
one another, and in the Op. 30
Sonata and the Kreutzer there
was first-rate co-operation.
Leah Horwitz.
Leah Horwitz, a young
Queensland pianist, showed un-
usual musicianship in a recital
at the Melbourne Assembly Hall
under the auspices of the Arts
Council of Australia. She
brought a sure touch to her
Brahms, Liszt and Chopin and
complete absorption to the
Sonata in B Minor of Scarlatti.
The Mozart “Fantasia in D
Minor” was clear and crisp, and
“Little Bird,” a Grieg item, was
expressive. MacDowell’s “Con-
cert Study in F Sharp Minor”
concluded the programme, which
showed her as a thoughtful
player with possibilities of a
brilliant future. Her ability to
capture the mood of each
separate piece of music was one
of her best assets.
Melbourne Art.
A sudden rush of exhibitors to
Melbourne galleries presages a
terrific eye-bashing for the com-
ing winter. Thomas H. Bone,
the Adelaide artist, brings no
fresh news from Nature to the
walls of the Athenaeum —his
studies of landscape in three
States and his views of Mel-
bourne belong to the most
thoroughly orthodox school of
Australian watercolor-painting.
Lesbia Thorpe’s oils at
George’s Gallery might be
described as violent declamation.
Art is a matter of establishing re-
lations, but in Miss Thorpe’s
work the nuances are absent and
everything is either stark blue,
stark green or stark yellow. The
method pays some dividends
when the subject has starkness
in itself, as in “Anthills,” a
study of those architectural
monstrosities presumably made
somewhere in The Centre, and in
“Duststorm over Sandhills”
which has all the force of melo-
drama. “Young Crop, Bays-
water,” is more successful than
the others.
A small memorial exhibition
of the works of the late William
Rowell at the Melbourne Book
Club covers most periods of the
development of this artist. Start-
ing off with the National Gal-
lery in Melbourne, he came
under the influence of Streeton ;
later he seems to have tried to
get something of the effects he
admired in Meldrum. A self-
portrait is an excellent likeness.
"Anna Karenina."
“Cauboy”: Seeing this British
attempt at Melbourne Lyceum
to take in Tolstoy’s enormous
novel in the course of an hour
and 40 minutes makes one won-
der why the film confectors don’t
do great works of this sort chap-
ter by chapter and run them as
serials, as the French have done
with some periods of their his-
tory.
Few people would want to put
Tolstoy’s novel down once
started, and few would wish to
miss a chapter of Anna’s story
if it were done as a screen serial.
There isn’t a dull moment in the
book, so there wouldn’t need to
be a dull moment in the picture.
The first chapter, in which the
sanguine Oblonsky awakens
from his couch to a household
turned topsy-turvy by the un-
lucky disclosure of one of his
numerous amours, would make a
film on its own, and so would
the perplexities of Tolstoy him-
self, who is Levin in the book,
but only appears in the film as a
subsidiary character without par-
ticular justification.
The film is little more than a
synopsis, yet, even a§ such, it
makes an absorbing picture.
Vivien Leigh makes Anna, bored
with her stiff privy-councillor
husband, loving her child and
torn between her love for Vron-
sky and her tradition, a moving
figure, and the final tragedy, in
which a railway train, having its
wheels tapped by the bearded
symbol for her guilty conscience,
finally resolves her conflict, is a
clever piece of dramatisation.
Keiron Moore as Vronsky
isn’t much more than an ordi-
nary screen hero, but then that
is probably all he was. The in-
evitable course of their love-
affair to despair and hopeless-
ness is magnificently described
by Tolstoy in hundreds of pages.
In the film it makes two jumps,
from a house to a gondola in
Venice. Anna’s husband is a
relatively uncomplex character,
and Ralph Richardson succeeds
in making him live.
"Spring in Park Lane."
This very light English con-
fection at Sydney Esquire ex-
tracts a good deal of not-in-
digestible comedy from a young
lordling masquerading as a foot-
man in the home of a diamond
millionaire who has a good-look-
ing young niece and a fancy for
old masters.
The young fellow’s troubles
spring from a hurried trip to
the U.S. to sell some of his
family paintings and thus pre-
serve the ancestral castle from
the bailiffs. Having disposed of
the pictures he is half-way back
across the Atlantic when a
radiogram from the buyer re-
grets inability to find the neces-
sary cash and asks that the
cheque be destroyed. With a
highly suspicious brother wait-
ing for him in England the
young chap decides to go into
smoke until such time as he can
rake up sufficient cash for a re-
turn trip to the U.S. to sell the
paintings.
A chance meeting with a one-
time family butler gets him a job
as footman in the diamond-
dealer’s home, where the d.-d.’s
niece is much intrigued by his
looks, manner and familiarity
with Debussy, Gauguin and simi-
lar identities.
A shady art-dealer, a stolen
Gauguin and sundry other com-
plications stir some life into the
old, familiar formula, while
Michael Wilding and Anna
Neagle, with Tom Walls as her
uncle, assist immensely by treat-
ing it with the lightness it merits.
Fences and Fleeces.
The Australian Wool*Board’s
film unit has made three excel-
lent shorts —“A Pioneer Stud,”
“Ram Sales” and “Fences”—for
overseas eyes rather than for
local. As documentaries they
stand comparison with anything
in their field, the camera work
and montage are skilfully done,
and they compress vividly a fund
of information on our wool in-
dustry.
Though meant for overseas
showing, it wouldn’t be a bad
idea if they somehow got en-
tangled in local programmes,
particularly “A Pioneer Stud,”
which is a reminder of how the
nation’s wool supremacy was
established, and shows the sheep-
master as something more than
the grasping squatter of recent
literature. “Fences,” which deals
with the rabbit menace in telling .
fashion, puts the cold facts of
the rabbit pest unemotionally,
and in its brief way proves the
rabbit to be a national prob-
lem.
“Ram Sales,” apart from other
things, shows what lovely fabrics
can be made from wool, and, for
Australian city - dwellers and
overseas people, displays an ani-
mal with which few are familiar.
All in all, the three 15-minute
runs deserve a wide showing.
"Yellow Sky."
The most trigger-happy per-
son in this western at Sydney
Regent appears to be Anne Bax-
ter, Who dwells with her grand-
father’s whiskers in an otherwise
deserted mining town, Yellow
Sky, on one side of Death Val-
ley—her grandfather is also in
the film, but is so completely ob-
scured by his beard and mous-
tache that he doesn’t matter.
On the other side of Death
Valley Mr. Gregory Peck and
his band of half a dozen out-
laws hold up a bank and nearly
do a perish in a 70-mile trek
across the saltpan before they
fetch up in Yellow Sky, where
they are greeted by a rifle with
Miss Baxter at the other end
of it.
Thereafter it is revealed that
Miss Baxter and her grand-
father’s whiskers have a con-
siderable hoard of gold planted
in the hills ; Mr. Peck agrees to
settle for half of it, but his gang
want the lot, so after Miss Bax-
ter has shot at Mr. Peck a few
times and the gang have suc-
ceeded in practically wiping
each other out, Mr. Peck gal-
lops back to the bank he robbed,
restores the coin and heads for
a fadeout clinch with Miss Bax-
ter under an approving waggle
from grandfather’s whiskers.
* * * *
“Whispering Smith” (Sydney
Prince Edward): Alan Ladd as
a railroad investigator in the bad
old days. He shoots hell out of
everything, including his horse,
three outlaws and an old com-
rade gone to the bad before law
and order are restored to the
tracks. F.a.q. entertainment with
plenty of action.
* * * *
“The Loves of Carmen”
(Sydney State): The Bulletin’s
nickel-plated, diamond-pointed
nib is no more. After being used
in a few vain attempts to do
justice to this technicolor adap-
tation of “Carmen,” its diamond-
point is powder and its nickel-
alloy metalwork is bent like a
banana. Using the utmost re-
straint one may state that the
most apparent differences from
the original opera are that the
music is something entirely
new, that there is'no singing,
and that the alleged paternity of
the story is open to the gravest
suspicions. Rita Hayworth
plays the main role at such a
temperature that it’s a miracle
she doesn’t blow a fuse.


enme ACW4:
“No question about it—only the
finest of pure fur is used in the?
making of Akubra Hats.
When you buy an Akubra you
get something no other make of
hat can give you ... an exclusive
Akubra process gives your hat
distinction, comfort and dura-
bility.”
AKUBRA
RfcUtf
BLOTCHY
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticurk Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cnticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
.Ointment, Soap and
i Talcum Powder.. 533
futicura
11' OINTMENT^
<**>
a.
*
■
Every point
guaranteed—
do hot experiment with imitation*
C BRANDAUER & CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
“You can taste
the extra flavour
in 353 Virginia
99
cigarettes
THE SECRET'S IN
THE 333's BLEND
STATE
express 333
«4D-1*.48
—always please
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Somewhere in 1956, rested after a
short sprint to Helsinki in ’52, the
traditional relays of Olympic Torch
Bearers will set out on the longest
hike they’ve had to tackle since some
ancient genius first thought up this
magnificent publicity stunt. The
venue of the 1956 Olympic Games is
to be Melbourne, and by the time the
torch-boys have studied their road-
maps they’ll be wishing that a certain
group of earnest Melbourne citizens
had never left home. However, leave
they did, and with some jolly good
staff-work landed the Games for the
home-town. Canberra’s Mr. Calwell
has assured the Games committee
that his crowd will render financial
assistance, which is downright hand-
sorne of him considering that there
are three elections between now and
1956.
* * * *
With the focus of autumn racing
shifted to Brisbane, Saturday saw the
Queensland Turf Club’s Stradbroke
Handicap added to the imposing list
of important races won by three-
year-olds this season. In a desperately
close finish the Stradbroke was won
by Lucky Ring, a son of the A.J.C.
Derby-winner Laureate.
Local horses filled the places in the
Stradbroke, Lucky Ring winning by
a neck from Ballyvista, with a similar
margin separating Proud Monash in
third place; inches further back the
visitors Count Cosmo and Rio Fe
were respectively fourth and fifth.
The six-furlongs trip was chopped
out in 1.12.
Heavy scratchings left Rio Fe top-
weight for the Stradbroke with 8.2.
Consequently, lightweight jockeys were
much in demand, and several run-
ners, including the winner (41b.),
carried fair slabs of overweight.
Lucky Ring was ridden by apprentice
Ron Conquest, son of the colt’s
trainer, Norman Conquest. The colt
was well fancied for the race, equal
second-favorite with Proud Monash
at 6 to 1. Ballyvista was 12 to 1;
Rio Fe left backers of favorites hold-
ing their briefs.
Only outright favorite successful on
the day at Eagle Farm was the odds-'
on chance Moneith (T. Hill) winning
the St. Leger by a mere eight lengths.
Second favorite at 14 to 1, Standette
deadheated for second with Danesse
(50 to 1). Moneith is a bay colt
by Harimark, who was a son of
Harinero and the Magpie mare
Alimark. Punters with the necessary
maladjustment of cash and common-
sense to back odds-on favorites came
a thud when Dark Marne roundly
defeated the hot-pot Filipino in the
w.f.a. P. J. O’Shea Stakes (lOf.).
* * * *
Also over Saturday-Monday the
Newcastle Jockey Club ran its big
annual double of Cameron Handicap
and Newcastle Cup. Run on a rain-
sodden track, the Cameron was won
splendidly by old Homeleigh Dick,
who, together with his regular rider,
E. Walmsley, could surely negotiate
the course blindfolded by now.
Homeleigh Dick’s record is three
wins and a second from four starts
in the Cameron. Despite a supposed
aversion to heavy going, Homeleigh
Dick started equal favorite at 3 to 1
with Exalted and defeated' that horse
by a length, after romping along in
the box-seat all the way. Nell
Gwynne was third.
* * * *
With perfect weather and a crowd
of 38,000-odd representing a delightful
contrast with the hordes crowded in
for the recent Autumn Carnival,
Saturday’s City Tattersall’s Club
meeting at Randwick provided as
sweet an afternoon’s racing as could
be desired. Would that some of the
results had been as pleasing!
A.J.C.-chairman A. G. Potter has
an exasperating horse on his hands
in the Ajax four-year-old Faraway.
In the 10-furlongs City Tatt’s Handi-
cap Faraway added yet another minor
placing to his record, appearing to
have the race in his keeping at the
distance but having no answer at the
finish for the withering run produced
by Johnny Zero. Johnny Zero, on
the other hand, had looked hopelessly
boxed-in with less than a furlong to
go, but, swung to the outside, he
sighted daylight and made the best
of it. Third in the Club Handicap
was Regal Praise, a five-year-old
daughter of Nightmarch.
One of the brightest efforts seen at
Randwick was that of Prince Stan-
dard, once a promising champion,
and indeed a winner of the
Derby before leg-trouble upset his
career. Running in the six-furlongs
Herdsman Stakes (named after the
present chairman of City Tatt’s),
Prince Standard was stone-last ap-
proaching the turn, but down the
straight unwound a fine run —power-
ful rather than flashily brilliant —to
finish third behind Verbage and
Granite. The margins were three-
parts of a length and a head, and
another furlong or so would have
seen Prince Standard’s number well
and truly in the frame.
An interesting feature of results at
Randwick was that in a card of seven
events three sires were each rep-
resented by two winners. One was
the imported Genetout; the others,
both Australian-bred and sons of
Magpie, were Talking and Colling-
wood. Verbage is by Talking, whose
other winner was Teletype (T. Mul-
lane) starting at 25 to 1 to take the
Maidment Juvenile, like the Herds-
man Stakes a six-furlongs scamper.
Collingwood, many of whose get have
shown staying ability, was represented
by two middle-distance winners in
Johnny Zero and Boyscreet, both
scoring at 10 furlongs. With F.
Hickey in the saddle, Boyscreet won
the Schachtel Novice Handicap by
several lengths.
• • S’ •
Genetout supplied the first and last
winners of the day, with Belle Amber
(\y. Hughes), at 16 to 1, winning the
Langley Nursery for two-year-old
fillies and Bold Archer (G. Moore)
achieving the narrowest of camera
decisions over Caribbean in the mile
“Tell me when you're going to change tack, skip.”
Club Welter. Somebody missed a
bargain when Bold Archer, with a
price of £1250 on his noggin, ran
second in a Novice Claiming race at
Canterbury a month or so back but
attracted no takers; since then the
four-year-old has won a string of
races. He, too, shows the Magpie
influence, being out of Hawah, a
Windbag mare.
* * * *
The need for three divisions of a
Juvenile Maiden Plate bumped out
the card at Moonee Valley on Satur-
day to one of eight events, all attract-
ing big fields. Results of the Maiden
Plate provided, though such is scarcely
now necessary, a fair advertisement
for Dhoti, whose get scored two firsts
and a second. Ridden by J. Gilmore,
Beau News (Dhoti-Marion Melton)
won the first division from Valsari
(Dhoti-Twovals), and the aptly-
named Latch Key (Dhoti-Vingt. Un),
with S. Ralph up, won the third divi-
sion. Better Law (L. Lott), a son of
Law Maker, accounted for the other
spasm of the Maiden Plate.
The aged but yet agile Miss Prim
(L. Lott) made short Work of the
opposition in the 13-furlongs Hos-
pital Handicap; starting a warm
favorite, she defeated Sir Toba by
a length and a quarter. A real bar-
gain of the turf, Miss Prim cost 40
guineas as a yearling and has won
the best part of £lO,OOO in stakes.
The 6-to-4 favorite Flemish looked
a fairly good thing beaten in the
Sisters’ Handicap (6f.); the Brueghel
horse finished third, about half a
length behind the winner, Coiffure
(B. Eames), after striking every pos-
sible manner of strife. Sandwiched
between them in second place was
Prince Curl.
Other events at Moonee Valley saw
Queen’s Court (K. Mitchell) down
other three-year-olds at 10 furlongs;
the very good ’chaser Paroxena (W.
Carter) score handsomely in the
Charity Steeplechase after eight of
the 14 runners had come to grief;
and Millais (S. Ralph) recorded a long-
overdue success in the mile High-
weight.
* * * *
The finish of Monday’s Brisbane
Cup was one of the closest that race
has produced, with unlucky Dark
Marne figuring in yet another photo-
finish and losing by the narrowest
margin to the Melbourne stayer
Sanctus (A. Breasley). Third, running
a splendid race, was the St. Leger
winner Moneith. Sanctus is a six-
year-old bay gelding .by Parenthesis-
Toussaint. Dark Marne ran a great
race with his plaster of 9.6, at which
he was conceding Sanctus' 181 b.
* * * *
Also run on Monday, the Newcastle
Cup went to the local galloper Wearie
(E. Ross), winning by a neck from
Prince Standard, with old Silver Link
third. A protest on Prince Standard’s
behalf was dismissed, but his run
thoroughly confirmed the excellent im-
pression he made at Randwick on
the Saturday.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old Handicap (fillies):
Perfect Chatter, 1; Elusive, 2; Port-
rait, 3. Two-year-old Handicap
(colts and geldings): Kewzami, 1;
Niska, 2; Beau Sandy, 3. Maiden
Stakes: Jenval, 1; Le Frere, 2;
Bluesaic, 3. Campsie Mixed (Ilf.):
Lyndale, 1; Boyscreet, 2; Megaron,
3. Flying Handicap: Blue Tulip, 1;
Glencrag, 2; Denali, 3. Canterbury
Park Handicap: Johnny Zero, 1;
Regal Praise, 2; lolanda, 3. Welter:
Moora Binda, 1; Chronicle, 2;
Double Gift, 3.
“40-love”: A tradition that only
men umpires are given charge of
matches on the centre court and
Court No. 1 at Wimbledon lawn-
tennis championships will be broken
this year. The All-England Club and
the Lawn Tennis Umpires’ Associa-
tion have agreed that in future there
will be no discrimination in appoint-
ing officials for the two “show
courts.” Previously, women umpires
had been restricted to the outside
courts.
* * * *
Eastern Suburbs Rugby Union boys
performed the unexpected on Satur-
day when they overwhelmed Uni-
versity 27-19. The tip-top leadership
displayed by Easts’ veteran skipper
Perc Newton was something to which
the ’Varsity lads might profitably
have devoted a little study, particu-
larly with their coming tour of New
Zealand in mind. In other games
Manly defeated Parramatta 19-14,
Gordon outshone Drummoyne 17-12,
Randwick subdued Wests 19-3, and
Northern Suburbs (26) gave Eastwood
(6) a particularly torrid time.
* * * *
North Melbourne, having shaken
Essendon up a week before, pounced
on Richmond Tigers on Saturday,
got a toehold, and had 14,8 to 9.5
when the fur stopped flying. The
Fitzroy-Collingwood affair was a
ding-dong go to the finish, with
’Wood shooting poorly to lose by a
point, 8.9-7.14. Melbourne chose
Footscray for its first victim of the
year, 14.16 to 7.6, and Essendon,
Geelong and Carlton had little
trouble with their respective oppo-
nents, St. Kilda, “Sowth” and Haw-
thorn.
* * * *
“Sports”: Balmain (Sydney) Austra-
lian Rules Club will have five brothers j
—four Melbourne-born —in its senior
side this season. They are the
Longley brothers —Frank (27),
Bill (25), Gordon (24), Jim
(20), and Ken (19). All ex-
cept Ken first played Aus-
tralian rules at Fairfield
School (Melbourne). Two
other brothers, Dave (18) and
Max (16), look likely to join this
family affair next season, being con-
sidered a shade underdone as yet.
* * * *
More or less filling in time till he
can get a crack at Eddie Miller,
currently in London, Billy Watson
(9.1) tackled Eric Macready (9.4) at
Leichhardt and won without much
trouble. While Macready’s condition
lasted it was a willing enough scrap,
though Watson was always on top.
Macready survived a very rough
handling in the 10th, but Watson was
hitting him at will in round 11 and
the ref. mercifully intervened. Watson
is a son of Tibby Watson, a first-rate
featherweight of other days and
winner of a bunch of good fights in
London at the National Sporting
Club.


ŧ
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
For immediate delivery contact
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
’PHONE: MA 6311
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs— recommended for shearing-shed work.
JII3S§S
n
m
m
■
I
I 4oz», Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
Ml
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A. Rose &Co,Pty. Ltd. King St. Sydney
M
ARTS
JAC^WO’SULUVA^Itf
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Circular Chart* for all type*
of Recording Instruments
for »ny ci»u of HichlMry
or Equipment
METER CHARTS ■ SpocUhp
Aojwmt nwNiM^
t
WL
mspm
P
AMLE
SPECIAL ASSISTANCE TO
tx-smicwn
BALLOT WIMHEBS....
• Now the Ballot has come your way
at last, the life yon planned is yours . . .
with all its responsibilities. Share yonr
problems with A.M.L.&F., who will give
special attention to your requirements, and
all the benefits of their 86 years of service
to the man on the land.
86 YEARS IN THE SERVICE
OF THE MAN ON THE LAND
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE,
(INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863)
LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Sydney Cattle Sales.
“J.R.D.”: It was a seller’s
market at Sydney cattle sales.
There was plenty of money
for practically every breed,
and buyers were not inclined
to niggle at an extra bid
or two over their reserves.
Prices were up throughout the
four days’ sales, but the in-
creases did not affect the top-
notchers —for which the market
is limited and the price always
good—so much as the general
run of bulls. Even so, some
breeders appeared to have anti-
cipated a still more “golden age”
by the reserve figures placed on
some of their cattle. However,
the proportion of passed-in lots
was lower than usual, and many
private sales were made.
Some younger studs fared re-
markably well, at times eclipsing
the demand for topnotch
animals from the best-known
studs. Everything favored the
new studmaster, provided his
sires were fashionable and his
cattle well prepared. Possibly
fewer bulls than ever changed
hands at less than three figures.
The Aberdeen-Angus cham-
pion, Booroomooka Regal, was
passed in at 950gns. Top price
was 650gns. for Nailsworth
•Minton 2nd., junior champion.
Abington’s reserve junior cham-
pion brought next-best price,
520gns. Abington bulls sold very
well, another blue-ribbon winner
bringing 460gns.
In Poll Shorthorns Antrim
headed the list with lOOOgns. for
Kinsman, who was not even
placed at the Show, while the
second prize-winner of his class
and junior reserve champion,
Antrim Royal Arch, realised
900gns. The Albinia Polls, the
best team ever to come to Sydney
from this Scone stud, sold well,
two bulls bringing 770gns. and
710gns. Bogan, Netherby,
Merryville and Gunnawarra had
good clearances at satisfactory
prices, one roan bull from the
latter, Highland Mist, by an im-
ported (V.S.) sire, bringing
910gns.
Though Shorthorn prices were
not so spectacular they were uni-
formly good. One surprise was
the price for the junior reserve
champion, Stirling Churchill—
1300gns.—top price of the breed.
This for a bull from a stud which
prior to last year was unknown
to Sydney. Coonong Rosi-
crucian, junior champion,
brought 1200gns. and the grand
champion, Coonong Royal
Leader, 1250gns. As usual, this
stud’s average was excellent.
Another high-priced bull was
Banool Grenadier, by last year’s
champion, Coonbng 0.8. E.,
which changed hands at 900gns.
Woomargama, Calool, Hamble-
don, Turanville and Dauntless
found eager buyers. Shorthorn
females met a good demand for
quality animals, but high reserves
resulted in a fair number being
passed in. A highlight of
the sales was the record 1150gns.
paid for the champion cow,
Dauntless Bellona Lady.
There was a good market for
high-quality Polled Herefords,
but for everything else the
market was restrained. As usual,
Milton cattle were eagerly
sought, and although the double-
champion bull was passed in he
was sold privately for lOOOgns.
Milton Emulator 2nd made
625gn5., and another Milton
bull, unplaced in his show-class,
topped the Hordern sales with
700gns. Best price was lOOOgns.
for a Victorian bull rising two
years, Munorhara Rosarian, and
other stock from this stud
realised good prices. Invernisk
Observer sold at 775gns. and a
Moreduval bull at 600gns.
As usual, highest prices at the
sales were made by Herefords,
although many expected better
bids. However, the explanation
may be that most of the fancy
prices went overseas, as a
number of high-priced Herefords
has been imported recently, and
the presence of their offspring
will be felt at future shows and
sales.
Golf Hill bulls topped the list
with 1775gns. for Golf Hill
Deputy—unplaced at the Show.
Although this well-known Vic-
torian stud’s average was not as
good as last year, it was over
£BOO and the best of the sales.
Other prices were Exquisite
1400gns. and Derwent lOOOgns.
Colly Creek stuff sold well, with
1450gns. for Chancellor and
others at 1050gns. and 950gns.
Bexley Resolute, third to two
Windsor bulls at the Show,
brought the respectable price of
1200gns. South Boorook got
825gns. for Sandhurst from a
Queensland buyer. Keen interest
centred on the Windsor cattle,
and top price at auction was
1450gns. for reserve champion
Windsor Bachelor; other sales
at 900, 700, 525 and 500 guineas
built up a good average. Cup-
pacumbalong’s three bulls by
Vera Vercker (imp.) realised
healthy figures, 1000, 900 and
425 guineas. Herbert Park and
Yarrandabbie also had good
sales.
There was a good demand for
Hereford females, Golf Hill
again topping the market with
650gns., while Windsor’s top was
520gns., but the average was)
high.
• There was demand for Devons,
particularly for the Havilahs,
where good clearances were
effected with a top price of
300gns. Table Top and Ban
Ban Devons sold well.
Red Polls had a limited
market. Bundaleer made several
satisfactory sales, but there was
little demand for either males or
females.
Zebus for N.Q.
“7 V.G.”: Yes, it is a long
time since any zebus were
imported into Australia (B.
6/4/’49), but fresh blood will be
in Queensland within a few
months. We are importing a
yearling Santa-Gertrudis bull
from the King Ranch, Texas
(IJ.S.A.) for our zebu stud,
Wetherby, Molloy (N.Q.).
This famous pure breed is,
however, three-eighths Brahman
and five-eighths Shorthorn, not
half and half, as “Outback”
states. One of their most in-
“Careful where you throw your matches , Dave.”
teresting points is the fact that
they throw all red calves. Brah-
man bulls are also being im-
ported by two other Queensland
stud-breeders this year from
other American ranches. This
will give several fresh strains of
these valuable cattle.
One of the zebus’ many good
qualities is their tick resistance.
Others are early maturity and
outstanding weights. Zebus are
exceptionally intelligent cattle
and respond readily to good
handling, becoming very quiet
and docile. Our station milkers
can be brought up on foot with
either a pure-bred or grade
zebu bull running with them.
Zebus compare more than favor-
ably with other beef breeds as
milkers.
If not kept in hand they are
likely to become wild and
touchy, but no more so than
other breeds in the same circum-
stances. Someone said in these
pages that “Zebus are not
mugs’ cattle”; we heartily en-
dorse that. *
Continuous Cropping.
“Beroo”: L. G. Vallance,
assistant-director of the Queens-
land Experiment Stations, has
bought many fights with
orthodox agriculturalists follow-
ing a recent visit overseas. He
examined conditions in centres
where the one crop had been
grown for many years without
any great addition of organic
matter and found that, providing
the artificial fertilisers were ade-
quate, there was no reduction in
yield over the years and, what is
more, the soils were still in per-
fect condition.
Tea - plantations in Ceylon,
cotton in the Sudan, the
famous wheatfields at Rotham-
sted (which have be£n under
continuous wheat for 105 years),
300-year-old canefields in the
West Indies and cane culture in
Louisiana and Hawaii made
him realise that the apparent de-
terioration in much Queensland
cane soil is probably not due to
continual cropping with cane.
Another point is that the or-
ganic matter in the soil is being
replenished all the time by the
fibrous roots of the cane, and
there is no need to plough in
the trash and leaves to maintain
soil fertility.
Radio Repairs.
“Sarina”: Crackling and fry-
ing sounds, loss of volume,
tonal distortion and erratic
working of a farm wireless-set
may be caused by broken wires,
a bad connection or a faulty
valve or transformer. That is
provided the batteries are
charged and properly connected
to the chassis.
Crackling noises can be caused
by the down-lead from the aerial
swinging against the house-wall
in windy weather. It can be
caused, too, if the aerial-lead is
not well soldered at the bottom.
The set will crackle or refuse to
work at all if the lead doesn’t
make perfect contact with the
chassis.
Some sets use a bias battery
of 4j volts or more. This bat-
tery is more important than is
generally realised. Weak recep-
tion is certain when it is nearly
discharged, and the current drain
on the B batteries is also con-
siderably increased. Note how
the bias battery is connected up
before you take it off to have it
tested. Many sets employ nega-
tive bias —in other words, the
red or positive lead is connected
to the negative side of the bias
or C battery.
Make sure all valves are sit-
ting well in their places. An un-
steady spark in a valve when the
set is switched on means a bad
connection. The vibrator unit,
if any, should be pushed down
firmly in its socket.
Before you disconnect the
wires from the batteries prior to
removing the chassis from the
cabinet note carefully how they
go. Look for broken or badly-
soldered wires joining the
speaker, and also on the inside
of the speaker plug.
Get the chassis out of the
cabinet and look into it care-
fully. Press the connections
firmly against the valve-pins with
the pliers. Look for broken or
loose wires and resolder any
poor joints with resin-cored
solder only.
Don’t touch any screws in the
sides of the chassis, the trans-
formers or the trimmer con-
densers, for a mere turn of one
of these will throw the instru-
ments out of position and neces-
sitate skilled repairs.
If you can find nothing wrong
connect batteries and speaker up
with the chassis and switch the
set on. Turn the volume con-
trol well up. Tap each com-
ponent part with a lead-pencil or
skewer and you should hear a
distinct rattle in the speaker
when you come to a poor con-
nection or faulty part. If it is a
small matter you will be able to
repair the fault yourself. But
if it is a bad coil or transformer
that has to be replaced, go to a
repair-man.
Trees on the Farm.
“J.J.A.”: At least a tenth of
the land needs to be under trees.
If they are planted on the poorer
parts such as hills, gravel and
sand-belts, swamps, etc., the land
becomes productive. For shel-
ter the trees need to be on high
ground. Swamps can be re-
claimed by planting them with
Tasmanian bluegums.
Windbreaks want planting at
right-angles to the prevailing
winds, and several rows must be
planted so as to present a slop-
ing surface to the wind and a
sloping surface on the lee side,
A single line of trees causes the
wind to whirl underneath and
start erosion. Single lines of
trees can be planted along
fences, but they are better
planted double. Creeks and
watercourses planted with trees
are not subject to as much ero-
sion or siltation as those with-
out trees. They, moreover, pro-
vide shade for stock and help
keep the drinking water cool.
An avenue of walnuts along
the track to the gate or a line in
front of the house is a sound in-
vestment. They provide beauty
and shelter, a crop of nuts, and
the timber is valuable furniture
wood. Other ornamental trees
can be just as valuable.
Stands of timber (it is advis-
able to grow mixed stands) need
thinning out as well as the re-
movable of dead trees. Lower
branches need pruning away.
Plant a few more trees every
year.
Hay in the West.
“San Luis Rey”: The floods
are on as I write, the drought is
over and out on the western
Darling Downs the sheep


TOMATO SAUC
is
m
LfA*p
m
\vs
Mmm
Contains no artificial colouring or
flavouring. Made from the best ripe
tomatoes to retain natural colour.
& LEA & PERRINS 'uet
Coal..
MILLIONS OF YEARS TO PRODUCE
Burned
in a Second
. . . How import-
ant it is, therefore,
to burn coal
properly and eco-
nomically, how-
ever great or small
the daily con-
sumption. With
world - wide ex-
perience, and a
knowledge of
Australian coals
that extends back
over 60 years,
Babcock specialise
in the design and
manufacture of
the most efficient
steam - raising
plant for all pur-
poses.
r?ti Jl
Mr i r
□ i □
n
>;
S
Longitudinal section
» ■ M
of- it B
*H,oad boiler
arranged for pul-
verised cool firing.
■ ■’ •. ; .
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
engineers and contractors
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS • - REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States
COLD
Smash
;| that i
with
Double U
{■ucahi/UtO Sxtiact
■
W"k
OUBLE D
HE PURE STROWC.EUf ALYPTUS WITH THE SWEET FRESH SMEU
Get rid of that Cold in
record time'—fight it 3
ways with pure, strong
Double "D" Eucalyptus
it's quick soothing
and very effective.
t
TAKW
nu&
wmit
3 drops of Double
“D” on sugar,
chest and back
with Double “D.”
15 Drops of
Double "D” in hot
water.
Double “D” brings quick results
when fighting Flu-Colds. This
3-way treatment attacks the Flu-
Cold germs Might where they
lodge—in nose; throat and bron-
chial tubes. Double “D” Euca-
lyptus is pure, strong and always
reliable.
BMI4
FONDE
EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom before, if ever,
imported into Australia. Obtainable at most retailers.
BOTTLES, 36/9; HALF BOTTLES, 18/9; MINIATURES, 2/3.
(These prices are slightly higher in West Australia and Qld.)
AGA
A Mi
\mcm\
JN YOUR KITCHEN
HEAT STORAGE COOKER
The Aga offers you a 24-hour service—complete
freedom from power restrictions—and a guaran-
teed economy. For it is a coke-burning stove that
stores its own heat, and uses no more than a
specified, and very small quantity, of fuel. The
cream-coloured, vitreous enamel finish is wonder-
fully easy to keep clean and sparkling, and the
AGA steams, boils, roasts, toasts, deep-fries and
grills like a domesticated demon. A luxury to
own, a prudent investment to buy!
DEMONSTRATION
British-made, the AGA Cooker is guaranteed for 10
years against faulty materials or workmanship. Come
and see the AGA demonstration -at our showrooms!
LEVIN AND COMPANY LIMITED
Sole Agents for AGA Heat Storage Cooker
45 Kino Street, Sydney ... 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Showroom*: Colton, Pajmer & Preston Ltd., Currie Street, Adelaide:
Qnr. Margaret & Albert Streets, Brisbane;
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobo*
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth.
numbers are down from 50 to
75 per cent.
I have been in the west for
20 years, and during that time
I have seen, every few years,
sheep going out on agistment,
yet I have never sent a hoof off
the place on account of drought.
My losses on this score have
been a lamb or two and a few
old sheep. Properly developed,
this part of s.-w. Queensland
could carry perhaps 3,000,000
sheep free from drought.
Can we minimise drought out
here? I think we can. The
Thompson and the Barcoo run
during the best-growing season
of the year and even 50 acres
of planted crops of hay, irri-
gated, would provide quite a lot
of feed in four years if well
stored. In the 18in. to 20in.
rain belt dry farm crops could
be grown for hay. Then some-
thing could be done about grow-
ing edible scrub. Here the Gov-
ernment might help by wiping
the rent right off a property for
seven years where the owner had
grown a large quantity of hay
by dry or irrigation methods or
had planted reasonable areas of
edible scrub.
Also, more stable prices are
needed, especially in the meat
line. We hear of what is being
done in America, but if we got
the same price for our cattle we
would be able to stall-feed them,
too, and the same applies to
sheep. As it is, the grazier
mines the land and the nation-
mines the grazier.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: Garden-stakes will
last many years if dipped in
creosote and then plunged into
hot tar for the depth they will
be embedded' in the ground.
When not in use stack off
ground.
“Nubis”: Kill and burn all
fowls affected with “down-be-
hind,” as it may be due to a
foreign growth in the abdomen.
Symptoms: Waddling gait, heavy
abdomen (sometimes touching
the ground). There are other
causes, but there is no cure.
“Beroo”: In Queensland the
walls of tidal or partly-tidal
drains are frequently broken
down by the burrowing of small
mud-crabs. Individual crabs can
be killed easily by pouring a
solution of bluestone down the
holes. Keep the quantity to a
minimum, though, for the cop-
per is also a fish-poison.
“Bill C.”: When buying a
new radio-set you may be told
that you use no more current
from the batteries when you run
the set full blast than when you
run it quietly. My own experi-
ence refutes this. When we used
our receiver full blast we got
seven weeks’ service from the
wet battery and three months’
from the three 45-volt B bat-
teries. Since we learned to run
the set softly we’ve worked it
for the same number of hours
daily as before, but whereas the
wet battery lasts up to two
months, the dry batteries now
last nine or ten months.
“W. Court”: When cutting
long grass to be chaffed for
stock feed keep the reaping-hook
sharp enough to cut cleanly. If
some grass is dragged up by the
roots and passed through the
cutter the coarse root particles
will cause digestive disorders in
horses.
“Mrs. A.H.”: As a grower of
citrus for upwards of 30 years
I hold that prevention is better
than cure for collar-rot. This
trouble is brought about by
wrong methods of watering. It
is a great mistake to throw the
hose down and let the water run
under the tree; instead a trench
should be dug around the tree
and the hose allowed to trickle
into this and give the tree a good
soaking. Manure should be
scattered around the tree.
Oranges from trees treated like
this have an unbeaten record at
shows.
New Shearing Record.
Daniel Cooper Jnr., of
South Perth, W.A., shore 325
sheep in eight hours’ shearing-
time on 22/10/’47 on the
property of C. G. Stewart,
Glenara, Langkoop (Vic.),
thereby establishing a new
world repord for eight hours’
shearing and exceeding the
record of 316 established by
his father, Daniel Cooper Snr.,
at Bundooran (Q.), in 1909.
The four two-hour runs
were made in conformity with
normal contract shearing
practice. The feat was wit-
nessed by the owner and
manager of Glenara and the
shearing contractor.


No Sale!
sk V X
\ \
JANE I DON'T JERRV - WHATS 1
fET ITI howA( shortchanging OUR l
" J ROMANCE ISA SUBJECT
REf ISTfB WITH < FOR YOUR D£NTISTI WONT
YOU ANY MORE?) VOUG£T HIS ADVICE 0N *
YUU ANY MOREjy QN BREATH? PLEASE 1
' v —h— s
4 ■*&&&“
COMBAT BAD BREATH, 1 RECOMMEND
COLGATE DENIAL C „V|! FOR SCIENTIFIC
,TESTS PROVE THAI IN 7 OUT Of 10 CASES
COLGATE'S INSTANTLY STOPS BAD BREATH;
THAT ORIGINATES IN THE MOUTH 1
1/
£
■^r
COLGATE'S ACTIVE PENETRATING FOAM
«■ GETS INTO HIDDEN CREVICES BETWEEN
( teeth-heips clean out DECAYING FOOD i
STAGNANT SAUVA ODORS-’
| REMOVE THE CAUSE OF MUCH BAD BREATH ,
LATER, thanks i
to Colgate Dental §
Cream
V
r.r~;
00 I REGISTER? BOY! YOU SAID Rj
AND COLGATE DENTAL CREAM GETS THE CREOff!
COLGATE
DENTAL CREAM
Cleans Your Breath
Whi|e It Cleans
Your Teeth
GIANT 2/-
LARGE 1/3
Alwdy i ut«
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
after you eat and before
M*try data.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS AKEHURST late of Kandos
and Orange.—TAKE NOTICE that MAY
VICTORIA AKEHURST has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 674 of 1949 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court Sydney on or by the 12th of July
1949 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from McPHERSON &
HILL, Solicitors for the Petitioner,
Mudgee.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting
Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friends.
ESTATE of RICHARD LANGFORD
O’GRADY, late of Maitland, South Aus-
tralia, Farmer.—WlLL MICHAEL-EVANS
O’GRADY, known as of B.roKen Hill, also
Melbourne (brother of the abovenamed de-
ceased, and beneficially named in his
will), or anyone knowing* his present
whereabouts, communicate with ELDER’S
TRUSTEE AND EXECUTOR COMPANY,
LIMITED, of 37-39 Currie Street, Adel-
aide?
JESSE SAMUEL DORRINGTON JOHN-
SON, Builder, formerly of 114 Finchley
Lane, Hendon, Middlesex, left Hendon
in the month of November, 1921, and has
not been heard of since. He is believed
to have gone to Australia. If he is still
alive he is asked to communicate with the
undersigned at once on a very urgent
matter in relation to real property in
England of which he is or was the owner.
The undersigned will be very grateful for
any information which anyone can give
them as to the whereabouts of the said
Mr. Johnson if still alive and if dead
as to the date and place of his death.
Dated Ist March, 1949.—VYVYAN
WELLS & SONS, 53 Ballards Lane, Finch-
ley, London, N. 3.
ţ
ORLIK
±D : cl| ;
D Ji
IC-
STORM PRO
FULLY GUARANTEED
LIGHTS EVERY TIME
Available at all leading
tobacconists 1 and stores
Australian Agents:
fiOtf i H <5 - MO TO 1 t NC
Maurice Newstead Pty. Ltd., Sydney
Leonard F. Newstead Pty. Ltd., Melb.
o
WIDER
FLATTER TREAD
This sure-footed new De Luxe
puts more rubber on the road
for extra traction.' You get
cleaner starts, quicker safer
stops and longer tread life with
the new Goodyear De Luxe.
STRONGER CORD BODY
Permits a heavier tread—en-
sures greater safety, longer
wear.
HEAVIER SHOULDER
Makes new De Luxe huskier
yet more uniformly resilient
—gives longer tyre life.
MORE NON-SKID MILEAGE
Millions of miles of road tests
proved these tyres give even
greater mileage, than the
famous Goodyear Tyres they
replace.
m
m
vm\
%
Two treads-. iu-wuzaB at right, am above
; r :
W/LhiA
GOODYEAR
W: ;
TYRES
cis-iea.
SMOKE-OH!
PRIM'S No, I CUP
THE NO I Drink
for wise men
“Experts claim to have found one
of the largest oilfields in the world
in Western Australia.”
—“S. M. Herald.’’’
But getting to it will be a bit
of a bore.
•h »!•
“Minute pigment granules in the
cells of human hair determine its
color.” —“ World's News.”
But sometimes these require
synthetic treatment.
•i* ❖
“Engineer single studios, requires
quiet furnished room, kitchenette,
near trams.” — Suburban paper.
A bit of an artist in his own
line.
*!•
“Room to let, suit woman and
child with board.” — Seaside paper.
They must plank down the
rent in advance.
“Have you packed away any of
your old fashions?”
• — Woman’s paper.
Those who have can always
boast they’ve something out of
the box to wear.
Fair Exchange.
“After all, a debut is nothing but
an announcement that a girl is in
the market for a man, and poor girls
have the same romantic inclinations
as rich girls.”— Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
It’s hard to picture debs, demure
As being so imbued with guile
That cunning efforts to secure
A husband lurk in every smile
Of lips bright-painted for allure.
For who would think that
sophistry
Exists in lasses in their teens,
Or picture to himself that he
Is marked by some young
thing who preens
Herself with mock humility ?
Well, if a shrewd, designing ma
Puts up her daughter you’ll
concur
That market rules should not
debar
A lad from taking stock of
her
To see if she is up to par.
BERT.
The “Tribune” Reviews
Stanley Holloway.
Bourgeois elements, whose
anti-prolefarian bias became
evident by the disgusting manner
. in which they laughed at jokes
patently based on rabid class-
consciousness, filled the Town
Hall last night at the concert
given by Stanley Holloway, who
seems to regard himself as a
comedian instead of a stooge of
the plutocrats.
Take, for instance, such a
situation as is forced, in the
entertainer’s sketch, on Sam,
obviously one of the working-
class, in front of the Duke of
Wellington at Waterloo. This is
one that could arise only in a
capitalist-ridden country, where
a worker, dragooned into the
Army of the Fascist-minded
English, is humiliated in front of
one of the blue-blood officer-
class. The fact that not one in
the audience cheered or shouted
“Long live the revolution! ” as
the comedian came to the part
where Sam showed commend-
able tendencies to mutiny by re-
fusing to pick up his musket
proved beyond doubt that the
house was “packed” with Fascist
sympathisers, and this was con-
firmed by the disgraceful way in
which they laughed when the
brutal English arch-butcher of
Waterloo eventually prevailed
on Sam to “pick oop tha’
moosket” and then gave the
Fascist order to “let battle com-
mence.”
Such a situation need never
have arisen had the worker-
slaves of 134 years ago risen,
like their counterparts gloriously
did in Russia in 1917, and broke
the shackles that bound them —
and still bind the slaves of the
Threadneedle-street manipulators
and imperialistic conspirators
who are trying to encircle Soviet
Russia. And had there been in
those days a noble figure such
as Marshal Stalin to authorise
a powerful World Peace Confer-
ence to make the warmongers
of England tremble at the ex-
pressed righteous wrath of all
peace-loving nations the jack-
booted Arthur Wellesley would
not with impunity have been
able to humiliate such as Sam
before sending him to what was
probably—though the sketch
“Having fun P”
cunningly refrains from mention-
ing it —a shameful death in a
war designed solely to stuff more
profits into the pockets of the
English manufacturing pluto-
crats.
Another example of alleged
humor which could have no
place in the enlightened Soviet
was the monologue on little
/4/jlbert and the lions. Here
again it is the worker who is
held up to cruel capitalist ridi-
cule. However, it may well be
that the story told is a true re-
flection of the economic misery
being suffered by the English
masses, ground down as they are
under a system which gives all
the privileges and profits to the
few and starvation and chains
to the masses who actually pro-
duce the wealth. How else ex-
plain the matter-of-fact manner
in which the parents accept the
eating by the lion of their un-
fortunate child other than sheer
relief at being rid of the intoler-
able burden of trying to feed and
clothe their offspring on the
miserable pittance the exploited
worker is given? It is incon-
ceivable that such a tragic situa-
tion could have arisen in the
U.S.S.R., where, thanks to the
selfless work of the beloved
leader, the happy workers have
a superabundance of everything.
It is to the eternal disgrace of
the stupidly-blind audience that
it found in this clear exposure
of capitalist practices material
for laughter.
Another monologue dealt
with the trials of a working-class
family whose doctor had ordered
the sick child to be given medi-
cine “in a re-cum-bent pos-
ture.” This sketch, at which
this reviewer failed to find the
slightest reason for any mirth,
did nothing but unwittingly ex-
pose the backwardness of edu-
cation in plutocratic England —
education deliberately withheld
from the masses to keep from
them the knowledge that alone
can awake them to the necessity
of throwing off by bloody revo-
lution the chains that bind them.
This ignorance was reflected in
the parents going round the
shops trying to buy a recumbent
posture to relieve their sick
child, .thinking it was an article
instead of being merely a lying-
down position. Such an exposure
of ignorance which would be
impossible in the enlightened
Soviet merits only derision that
such a state of affairs could exist
in a capitalist country.
A song, “Dan, Dan the Sig-
nal Man,” based apparently on a
prudery common to many non-
Asiatic countries that a wife
who spurns, during her hus-
band’s absence at his railway
work, the advances of another
man is to be commended. In
the progressive Soviet, where
love, like everything else, can
be practised with complete free-
dom, such a song would be
pointless. Much is made of fish
and chips in the song. After
all, what, other than such frugal
fare, could a worker afford
under a system in which he can
expect barely enough to keep
body and soul together?
BO.
Misplaced Confidence.
“Some young people imagine they
are in love with each other. They
are really in love with love, but there
is no way of distinguishing the
difference until after marriage.”
— Woman’s paper.
That meddler in love partner-
ships,
Dan Cupid, on his bowstring
slips
An arrow from his quiver.
His aim’s directed at the heart
But frequently the cherub’s dart
Finds target in a liver!
P. O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Police and Jails
A friend of mine who made the serious
mistake of driving his car while under
the influence, was sentenced to twelve
months. A man of strict probity in
normal circumstances, an ex-non.-com.
Tobruk Rat and a New Guinea M.M.,
he took it on the chin and was paroled
after seven-and-a-half months. Knowing
the man well, I was apprehensive about
how he would react to it all, particularly
as I knew he was not an habitual drinker
and that he had ill-advisedly pleaded
“guilty” to the serious charge—leaving
the Judge no option but to inflict the
sentence.
I saw him the other day, and his reac-
tions are worth recording, if only for the
enlightenment of the “all coppers are
mugs and all screws are blankards”
fraternity.
First, the arrest was made quietly, he
was given every opportunity to seek legal
aid, and every courtesy was extended by
the police-force. Sentenced, he was taken
to prison under escort but relieved of
the handcuffs at refreshment-rooms on
giving parole, thus avoiding embarrass-
ment at railway stations. At the jail,
after the customary “screening*” he was
segregated from old lags, given outside
work and his transfer to the prison-farm
effected in four days. His conduct being
good, he was placed on outside work
permanently, and treated as a human
being who had made a mistake rather
than “as a criminal. He admits that jail
treatment is not easy, but says that it
was better Tobruk. Warders were
firm but considerate, and the Superin-
tendent a friend to all prisoners, showing;
favor to none.
Returning to his hometown (and the
scene of the crime) he was welcomed by
the police, made to feel that, as he had
paid his debt according to®the statute-
books, he had every right to live as a
normal citizen.
Although, in the opinion of many of
his friends who have seen other drunken
drivers get light sentences and bonds, his
treatment was, to say the least, unex-
pected, this man has only the highest
praise for the police-force and the prisons
service.—Video (Q.).
Free Medicine—or None?
Is not it time the Liberals did some-
thing more than merely condemn the
“free”-medicine scheme? Have they any
concrete plans for the health of the in-
dividual? Despite its implications of
Socialism, the Government's scheme has
a wide appeal, not because it offers some-
thing for nothing, but because it will
help the children.
Most of the money which a man spends
on medicine during his lifetime is spent
while he has children under 10. That
usually happens to be the time when his
earnings are lowest. In later years he
may become foreman, manager or senior
salesman, but, by that time, his children
are grown up.
My own eldest child cost me over £BO
before he was two years old, and £35
of that was for drugs and medicine.
He is now a fine, healthy youngster,
and I consider it money well spent.
Fortunately, I had just received my de-
ferred pay from the Army, otherwise I
would not have been able to pay, and
that debt would have lasted for years.
What can the Liberals offer to replace
the “Labor” scheme? I have at least one
suggestion:
• Repeal of the law which prevents
friendly societies from setting up any
more of their own pharmacies and dis-
pensaries. Although chemists are press-
ing the Friendly Societies’ Association
for an increase in their payments, the
friendly societies’ existing pharmacies are
still able to operate at a profit at the
present rates. In fact, most of them can
offer greater benefits than private
chemists. — Mullum (N.S.W.).
Those Socialistic Moves
Latest move by the Queensland Lands
Department to squeeze a little more rent
out of graziers in the Mt. Periy (Q.)
district shows to what lengths socialistic
Governments will go to penalise farmers.
It aiso shows the futility of Prime
Minister Chifley exhorting primary pro-
ducers to produce more.
For some years Mt. Perry district
graziers agitated to have trucking yards
built on a convenient site at Wolca. The
Railway Department was unsympathetic
on the ground that yards already existed
at Won bah (these were erected privately
and were allegedly unsuitable for about
95 per cent, of district graziers). The
department eventually agreed to provide
siding accommodation, ramp and crush
if graziers erected and maintained yards
at their own expense.
The yards > are now being built, and
at recent Land Court sittings at Bunda-
berg both the District Land Commis-
sioner and the Crown Land Court advo-
cate, when pressing for increased rentals,
emphasised that more convenient yards
at Wolca enhanced the value of district
leases. So the graziers, by their own
efforts, provided a valuable asset to the
district, the railways will get increased
revenue, and the Lands Department uses
that as a lever to increase rentals!
Oxo (Q.).
The Basic Wage
With prices continually rising and the
basic wage being adjusted to meet the
upward trend, a common belief is
that high wages are forcing up
the cost of living. Obviously pro-
duction costs are higher now than
they were when the basic wage was a
little more than £2 a week, but how did
wages reach the present high level and
which moved first, prices or wages?
In 1907 Mr. Justice Higgins, after mak-
ing a rough estimate of the fair and
reasonable needs of a family of “about
five persons” living in Melbourne, de-
clared that a wage of £2 2s. might satisfy
them. By the end of 1911 prices had
increased by 11 per cent., but there had
been no corresponding increase in wages.
So, in that instance, wages could not be
blamed for forcing prices up.
Cost-of-living changes which bring
about basic-wage changes seem to be
largely due to national prosperity. In
1939 the basic wage was £4 25.; now it
is £6 7s, (in Sydney). In 1939 the average
price for greasy wool was 10.39 pence a
pound. , At a recent sale the top price
was 210 pence a pound, with the average
between 150 and 160 pence. Wool is a
raw material, and an increase in its cos
means an increase in the price of manu
factures, and when prices go up a new
basic wage follows.
How record prices for wool have influ
enced the prices of its manufactures can
be seen by comparing 1938-39 and
1946-47 figures. Over that period cost o
clothing increased by 84 per cent, and
textiles by 135 per cent. Food and drink
increased by only 29 per cent.
Wheat is another example. In 1931-3?
(the basic wage was then £3 75.), mice
ate the grain in {he stacks and a substan-
tial part of the harvest could not be sold
at a price slightly below 2s. a bushel
In 1939 it sold at 2s. a bushel; lasi
year the export price per bushel rangec
from 17s. 6d., to £l, and the latest an-
nouncement is that the world parity of
11s. a bushel will stand for some time
ahead. In 1938-39 the sale of wheat and
flour overseas earned Australia £13.3
million; last financial year it jumped to
£85.5 million. Nice prices, but flour —
and bread—are among our most import-
ant commodities and so the cost of living
rises.
Just how high the basic wage will go
is hard to predict. It all depends on how
high prices go. If, however, the claim by
some unions for an immediate jump to
£lO a week did materialise, then high
wages could rightly be blamed for forcing
prices up. But while record export prices
prevail the cost of commodities on the
home market must swell and wages
must rise to give the worker a chance to
live. > Moreover, there is always
a lag between the movement of wages
and prices; when prices are rising the
real wages of labor are generally below
the accepted standard ; when prices are
falling they are generally above it. —L. P.
(Vic.).
Profits of War?
In one of Douglas Jerrold’s books I
read that Norman Angell said, not that
modern war is unprofitable to the victor
under any conditions (B. 13/4/’49), but
that a war waged against a country of
similar economic standing is bound to
have that effect.
Certainly, whatever Angell or anyone
else may say to the contrary, the conquest
of undeveloped country of great poten-
tialities by a thickly-populated and indus-
trially-advanced couptry may return good
dividends. That may happen through
discovery of valuable mineral resources
or because the conquered land is suit-
able* for extensive colonisation.
Similarly a war waged to give a country
safer boundaries, though temporarily ex-
hausting, may prove worth the sacrifice
in the long run. The wars of Louis XIV
of France, which some shortsighted his-
torians have dubbed a waste of money
and manpower, achieved that purpose.
When Louis became king Spain and the
Netherlands were both under Hapsburg
rule, and Hapsburg territory was within
easy striking-distance of Paris on both the
north and west.
Louis’s wars resulted in both boun-
daries being pushed back a considerable
distance, while the placing of a French
prince on the throne of Spain broke the
Hapsburg encirclement of France.—
Economist (N.S.W.),
Local-government Income
Several Victorian municipalities for
which I have toiled levy the maximum rate
(B. 6/4/’49) of 3s. in the £, yet even those
which receive an additional Country
Roads Board rate of 2d. or 3d. in the £
(to cover their share of subsidised road-
works) are feeling the pinch.
“Efftee” cites water and sewerage as
additional sources of income, but little
is made from them after repayment of
loan moneys. Further, Victorian metro-
politan councils merely act as rate-
collecting agents for a central water-
authority, the Melbourne and Metro-
politan Board of Works, and are reim-
bursed for administration only. Where a
sanitary-service is operated little remains
after deduction of the contractor’s
charges.
In my experience the main factors
causing the breakdown in municipal
finances are the 40-hour week, wage
increases, and the growing burden of
loan repayments and interest payable out
of the general rate. Ten years ago 12s.
in the £ was spent in my municipality
to redeem 30-year-old loans raised for
the construction of roads which, because
of lack of finance, had long since fallen
into disrepair. Careful budgeting and
cessation of loan-raising during the war
have reduced the current figure to Bs.,
it will be increased again by the necessity
for borrowing sums much larger than
before without g any commensurate in-
creases in the magnitude of works com-
pleted.
In the past, trading concerns have been
the mainstay of most councils, and many
a town hall has been built from the profits
of an electric-light undertaking. Today,
however, when these former goldmines
are feeling the effect of high wages and
labor shortages, it is little wonder that
municipalities must seek to augment their
sources of revenue. — Carlyle (Vic.).
Queensland Timber
A Queensland politician lately tried to
explain the shortage of timber for house-
building. He said there was not
3,000,000 super, feet of pine left in
Queensland.
There may not be around Parliament
House, but in the north there is the
square of 3,000,000 super, feet of hoop-
pine. From Rockhampton north along
the coastline —and south of it for all I
know —there are forests of hoop-pine all
the way. It is virgin stuff; old, tall, and
straight. Off the coast, in calm and
sheltered waters, there are a thousand
islands clothed in magnificent pine. Hook
and Whitsunday Islands, to name a
couple, have enough virgin pine within
touch of the Water’s edge to keep a large
sawmill going for years.
That is a start on soft timber. If hard-
woods are wanted I can name 10,000
square miles of forest country rich in
ironbarks and other hard stuff. — Saw-
dust (Q.).
Socialisation
A substantial all-round increase in the
basic wage (not the 3s. per week) may
shortly be granted, with repercussions
for every section of the community.
The fixed-income group—people living
by rentals, dividends, Government loans
and other income which is practically
static —will be hard hit by the upward
costs. Over the last few years landlords
have had a pretty lean time, and no move
has been made in any way to give them
increased returns. In fact, every Govern-
ment in Australia has boasted that the
rental index has remained steady for a
number of years; but that has hit a
thrifty and most deserving section of the
community who, by careful living, own
two or three houses, and in consequence
cannot receive pension payments.
The Commonwealth Government must
realise that more and more people will
in their old age become wards of the
State —no amount of thrift and industry,
other than in exceptional cases, will
enable anyone to accumulate sufficient
to keep himself in reasonable comfort in
old age.—C.B. M. (N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 15
(cryptic type.)
Across.
I—A safe place to let a refrigerated
fish cross the Styx. (10)
6—Piquant beam about a hundred.
(4)
10—One King and one Indian city.
(4) “
11 Bashers like to - operate a yacht
with insects. (10)
12—Stole to approve. (4)
14— Regular beat upturned by 50 on
the direction. (5)
15— Witty poetic fancies at one time
surrounded by citizens. (8)
18—Leave the steamer by a French
that is fine and flimsy. (8)
-o—Shandy inventor has a holy
eagle. (6)
22—Redskin captures a Gilbertian
feminist. (6)
Orchestra and the pay it might
get in India—so small, indeed, as
to make this useful for drying
the tears. (8)
“^~^ rete tea (anagram). (2, 6)
-6 It can laugh, with some of the
laughter about Japanese money.
sends back the Communist
duck. (4)
30— There are five dozen in minute
impudence of this cricketer. (6,4)
31— He fiddled with fire. (4)
C Solution in next issue.)
32 — Therefore the monster is upset.
(4)
33 — Relative of the instep of me, a
Mongol, and Sarah. (10)
Down.
1 — See the swine, dead and alive,
presented with negative mush-
room. (10)
2 Duck to be fish money going out
of use. (11)
3 Outward appearance of a famous
French general and statesman. (5)
4 Back a hundred to see he joins
the coppers, all of whom have
bowed again. (8)
5 Concentrated description of the
Sydney production of “Love Me,
Sailor.” (6)
6 Renegade upset a sailor. (3)
7 One takes leave with reference to
times past. (3)
8 — Traverse in a fit of irritability. (5)
9 Tibetan ox. (3)
13 —Edward X, perhaps, has canvas
habitations. (6)
16 — Sailor takes a Swiss patriot like
dances. (11)
17 — Wristy encountered a friend with
a jalopy. (10)
19 —Aggregate was in front and con-
fused. (6)
21 —Upset a lofty tennis stroke and a
hit in this curve. (8)
24 — Venerate an American horseman.
(6)
25 — Senior part of the forest? (5)
26 — Monster is capable of hardy
alterations. (5)
27 Single ring by direction. (3)
28— Nothing is taken away from 32
across by this work unit. (3)
29 — Little marsupial. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 14.


TO ALL ENOINBtKINC SHOPS
ttuidt IN AUSTRALIA -
PRICED WITHIN AUSTRALIA'S REACH
Mars Machine Tools carry a 12-month Guarantee against faulty materials or workmanship
V
* *
■
i y
«1
THE “MARS”
HEAVY DUTY
RADIAL DRILL
Here is an all-purposes tool built to suit the
Australian shop. Embodies all the new fea-
tures and latest designs found in a high-
efficiency drill of this type. Radial Arm, 4-ft.
6-ins. Approx, weight, 3 tons. Tested to Schle-
singer specifications. All Gear Teeth Generated.
r / // .
Y/) V.
z:
h; . '
fc:
EJ
-WHI//
HE
. I ' , - ,
The "Mars" Planer Is ol a proved design
_s and is capable ol obtaining the maximum
output from high-speed cutting tools. All pul*
leys are Dynamically Balanced. All Gear
t Teeth are Generated.
BHtti
■
wm
£j| I 1
w I
B
M
M '
%
11
m
' y. y
I HE
I ■
frflp
w' tg&
jpjJOl
■ .:' :S :
- fS,#|
THE “MARS”
HIGH SPEED
PLANING
MACHINE
Outstanding features of -“Mars”
Machine Tools are:
1. TEST CHART, showing
tolerances against Schle-
singer standards, supplied
with each machine.
2. BALANCE—AII neces-
sary revolving parts are
Dynamically Balanced.
3. FINISH —All surfaces
cm Machine Ground.
4 MATERIALS "Meeh-
Gnite" Castings throughout. 1
5. SMOOTH RUNNING—
AIL Gear Teeth are gener-
ated r *
6. VERSATILITY All
lathes have generous De-
tachable Gap Bridge.
7. "MARS" Lathe Lead
Screws are cut from a certi-
ed and tested Master Lead
Screw.
■ -iMim
"Mars" also manufac-
tures to 14-inch
Lathes, Plain and Uni-
versal Milling Machines,
Shapers and Boring
Mills.
Licensed Manufacturers in Queensland
oi “MEEHANITE” IRONS
ASK FOR FULL SPECIFICATIONS AND PRICES
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS: N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Pty. Ltd.,
and Gibson Battle & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. Vic.: Herbert Osborne,
Engineer, 567-9 Little Bourke Street (near King Street), Melbourne.
S.A.: M. S'. McLeod Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: The Western Machinery
Co. Ltd., Perth. Tas .: Charles Davis Ltd., Hobart.
Sales Representative :
Bank of N.S.W., Port Moresby, Papua.
1
MAKING THE WIDEST RANCE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
