

EXTRA DRY
RO
A PRODUCT OF THE
Be
HOUSE OF SEPPE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3643
Wednesday, December 7, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
TYNEMOUTH PRIORY HAS SEEN THE PAGEANTRY OF THE AGES
TYNEMOUTH, situated on the north bank of the River Tyne, between
Sunderland and Blyth, is renowned not only as Northumberland’s popular
holiday resort but as a Borough possessing an unusually interesting historical
record. Here have been seen the Roman galleys, the warships of the Saxons
and of the still more dreaded Danes,-the craft carrying Norman troops and
masons, the ungainly ships of Plantagenet and Tudor times, the three-deckers
of the Nelson era and the coal-carrying vessels which established the fortunes
of the Tynemouth area. Here, also, have been built such ships as the
Mauretania and H.M.S. Nelson.
Over thirteen hundred years ago Edwin, first king of Northumberland,
erected a church on Tynemouth cliff, which was replaced by a church built
of stone by Edwin’s nephew, Oswald, who lived at Bamburgh Castle. This
new church was placed in the care of a College of Monks, who withstood the
attacks of the Danish invaders. The ill-famed Earl Tostig, brother of King
Harold, who fell at Hastings, erected a shrine in the new church to cover
the remains of Oswin. The ruins of the existing Priory date from 1065, and
include the magnificent Percy Chapel built by the Earls of Northumberland.
King Edward I (1272-1307), on one of his numerous visits to the
Priory, brought his second wife, Margaret of France, to stay there while
he went north to battle with the Scots. In 1312 Edward II left his queen,
“the she-wolf of France,” at the Priory, and in 1379 the monks fortified
the monastic buildings and built the adjoining castle, which was visited
on three occasions by King Charles I during his stormy reign.
King Malcolm 1 of Scotland, who was killed at Alnwick when fighting
the English, was buried at Tynemouth Priory.
North country people have a deep and lasting affection for their
Tynemouth, an affection which is, in some measure, expressed in the song,
“Tynemouth Abbey,” which is to be heard throughout the world wherever
“Tynesiders” meet to make merry and tP recall memories of the Old Country.


IiMJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 249 AGE.......
The Red Page
BACKGROUND FOR BYRON.
Teresa Guitcioli, the herpine of the
Marchesa Origo’s The Last Attachment
(Cape; Murray), was a pretty little noodle
who stopped Byron writing Don Juan
and who, on the other hand, kept him
reasonably happy while he wrote Marino
Faliero and Sardanapalus.
If Don Juan lost some of its original
force after the fifth canto when her ban
fell upon it—to be lifted two years later
on condition that it should be “more
guarded and decorous and sentimental” —
Teresa could reasonably be regarded as an
unfortunate influence on Byron’s writing ;
but then she was only one voice amongst
a chorus of his friends crying out against
the ironic realism of the poem, and the
attacks it was bringing on him ; and prob-
ably the fundamental reason for Byron’s
dropping the narrative was that it dropped
itself—there was no dramatic structure
to compel its completion, only a string
of brilliant episodes which, in the manner
of a picaresque novel, could be expanded
indefinitely or dropped at any- point.
At any rate, if one blinks a little at
Teresa’s innocent joy at the abandonment
of Don Juan —“ Never shall I be able to
express to you the satisfaction I feel, so
great is the sentiment of joy and trust
with which this sacrifice you have made
has inspired me”—she is equally entitled
to credit for Byron’s poetic dramas, which,
if they are generally too stilted and melo-
dramatic, contain in isolated passages,
like Lioni’s speech about the ballroom
in Marino Faliero, some of his most
beautiful writing:
Tfie music, and the banquet, and the wine,
Ihe garlands, the rose odours, and the
flowers,
Ifie sparkling eyes, and flashing ornaments,
1 tie white arms and the raven hair, the
braids
And bracelets; swanlike bosoms, and the
necklace,
An India in itself, yet dazzling not
The eye like what it circled; the thin robes,
bloating like light clouds ’twixt our gaze
and heaven;
The many-twinkling feet so small and
sylph-like,
Suggesting the fair forms which terminate
so well—
All the delusion of the giddy scene....
But one would have to quote the whole
of that prodigious soliloquy, 91 lines of it,
to do justice to the vividness and grace of
the ballroom description and the tran-
quillity of the picture of moonlit Venice
with which it concludes. . Byron wrote it,
obviously remembering his own recent
experiences in Venice, in circumstances
hardly conducive to tranquillity.
Surrounded by his dogs, the cats, the
monkey, the peacock, the guinea-hens and
the Egyptian crane—the bear seems to be
missing, and he had not yet added to the
menagerie the three geese he could not
bear to kill for Michaelmas—he was
occupying apartments in the Palazzo
Guiccioli at Ravenna, Upon him were
fixed the brooding eyes of Teresa’s
husband, Count Guiccioli; of the 18
servants the Count had set to spy on him ;
and of the Italian police, who were sus-
picious of his revolutionary activities in
league with Teresa’s father. Count
Gamba.
Count Guiccioli, who was reputed to
have had two of his enemies stabbed and
to have poisoned his first wife—Teresa,
forty years his junior, was his third-
forced open Teresa’s writing-desk in
search of incriminating evidence, read
some of the very letters which the
Marchesa Origo now offers for our inspec-
tion, and had a violent scene with Byron,
who, before this open break, had been
expecting the Count to attempt to assas-
sinate him when he rode in the pine-
forest.
Ths Clerical faction—which was really
the power against which Gamba’s
Liberals were conspiring—tried to irritate
yron into departing by complaining
about his steward, Antonio Zambelli, who
was an unfrocked priest, and also en-
couraged the husbandly jealousy of Count
Gmccioh Teresa, through her father
at the : tm the P /2 pe for a separation. Life
which P a a a S Sr UIC u° H Was a turmoil in
wmch, as the Marchesa Origo says:
m ems-the U Cnn e nj re sdr$ dr S - eparate apart-
inems tne Count and his wife anarrpllinrr
downstairs and Bvron • g
by hl Morem et and thT Canied Up
SCrV a— S Sides e d r °spfed ge knd n wWs-
pered and the Pope’s answer still delayed.
Anybody else might have found it im-
possible to write in these circumstances.
Byron told Murray that he never wrote
a scene of Marino Faliero without being
obliged to break off—to break a com-
mandment, to obey a woman’s, and to
torget God’s”; and this procedure for
poetical composition was certainly verv
different from the Wordsworthian recipe
of reclining (alone) upon a couch “in
vacant or in pensive mood.” But obvi-
ously it suited Byron.
When he was at work again on Don
Juan, after Shelley had praised the poem
and, as Byron said, “I had received per-
mission from my Dictatress to continue
u . , . wrote . wit h the excitable Teresa
beside his chair, marvelling at the rapidity
with which his pen flew over the paper.
And around him then at Pisa was the
same turmoil as at Ravenna—the Gamba
family, now in exile because of their own
conspiratorial activities and because of
their association with Byron, still watched
by the police; Byron and Shelley setting
the whole city in an uproar over the
Masi affray” in the course of which one
of Byron’s servants stuck a dragoon with
a large toasting-fork; and, from the
palace in Ravenna, Count Guiccioli still
manoeuvring trying, at this stage, to per-
suade Teresa to return to him, apparently
because he found it painful to pay her
separation allowance.
For Byron both as a poet and as a
legend and the two roles were always
equally important to him —it seems to
have been an ideal situation. There was
enough commotion around him to keep
him stimulated to composition ; Teresa,
as another man’s wife, gave a flavor of
romance to his life, had much less real
power over him than she would have had
if they had been married, and, at the
same time, preserved him from the social,
physical and literary disasters that must
have overtaken him had he continued to
live as in the wild and dissolute days in
Venice before he met her.
Though their letters in The Last Attach-
ment show plenty of lovers’ quarrels and
occasional scenes of danger and distress,
they demonstrate, above all, that Byron
was comfortable with Teresa. He would
go no more a-roving, and the wife of
Count Guiccioli was as good a partner
as any, and better than most, with whom
to share what was, for Byron, domestic
tranquillity and respectability. He was
faithful to Teresa. If he got a bit bored
towards the end and, except for one or
two letters looking forward to seeing her
again, could hardly be bothered to write
to her from Greece, he was bored with
more than Teresa by that time: with him-
self ; with life in general after Shelley
had died and poetry seemed to have lost
its significance; with the fulfilment and
exhaustion of his own talent.
As for Teresa, she adored Byron from
the beginning to the end ; and after his
death to the end of her own life. “He
l S an , ange ! u P° n Earth,” she wrote to her
mother Pietro when, in the early stages
of the affair, he warned her that Byron
was a monster who kept his wife shut
up in a castle “of which many dark
mysterious tales are told.” After Byron’s
death, when she took up spiritualism, she
proved to her own satisfaction that he
was literally an angel by holding ghostly
converse with him,
TJere is, of course, the famous story
of her second husband, the Marquis de
Boissy, who shared without embarrass-
ment her admiration for the poet, being
asked whether the lady to whom he had
become engaged was “any relation of the
Countess Guiccioli whose name had been
connected with Lord Byron’s” and reply-
ing with a radiant smile, “Mais c’est elle-
meme, c’est elle!” When the Marquis
died she talked to his spirit as well as
Byron’s and was pleased to report, “They
are together now, and are the best of
friends”—a statement which, as far as
Byron is concerned, one would doubt.
For sheer femininity, a mixture of
innocence and duplicity together with an
unshakable determination to do exactly
what she wanted to, perhaps Teresa’s
most typical letter is the one she wrote
to her husband from La Mira:
I am still at La Mira, a delightful place,
where one can very well lead, as I am
doing, a retired life without its being at
all tedious. I cannot tell you all the
attentions of Mylord. He has sent for a
pianoforte, some music, quantities of
books... .Byron greets you and is not very
pleased to see even a simple greeting for
him in the letter you sent me recently.
As Teresa was then supposed to be in
Venice under the care of her doctor, but
had stolen off to La Mira to enjoy
Byron’s company for the first time in
complete freedom, she had some reason
not to tell Guiccioli “all the attentions
of Mylord.” It was not exactly a moral
situation ; but it was a poetical one ; and
as for the wronged husband, besides his
being allegedly a murderer and certainly
a rake, there is every reason to believe,
as the police spies and even Count
Gamba, Teresa’s father, suggested, that
he had “sold” Teresa to her lover—the
sale being tactfully disguised in the
“loans” which Guiccioli demanded from
time to time and which Byron, to the
nobleman’s extreme indignation, was in-
creasingly inclined to refuse.
The story of Byron and Teresa has been
told so often that we must know a good
deal more about them than, as human
beings caught in the blind and tern-
pestuous muddle of their lives, they
could ever have known themselves. The
Marchesa Origo’s excuse for telling it
again is that she ha's fresh material to
offer: Teresa’s collection of love-letters
which she kept in a carved mahogany box
and, on her deathbed in 1873, handed
to her sister-in-law to be published.
Seventy-five years later Count Carlo
Gamba, Teresa’s great-nephew, made
them available to the Marchesa Origo.
The book is built around these letters
and is chiefly intended as a background
for Byron, raw material for the use of the
next biographer. But at the same time
there is a quiet, shrewd and witty com-
mentary by the Marchesa, interpreting
and expounding the story with admirable
balance and sympathy.
Montaigne and Gide.
Volume 111 of the Journals of Andre
Gide, translated and edited by Justin
O’Brien (Seeker and Warburg), covers the
years 1928-39.
In 1931 we find him “getting strength
to launch into Huxley’s Point Counter
Point ”:
March 18: Went as far as page 115 with
great effort. Illegible. Yet I have plenty
pluck for reading. I cannot even
understand how there were people able
to go on
March 20: I definitely drop Huxley’s
book. Mme. Theo very ingeniously com-
pared it to Mauclair’s Couronne de Clarte
(published in 1895). There is probably
more intelligence in Huxley, but just as
much rubbish....
As Mr, O’Brjen remarks:
This passage is particularly piquant when
one recalls that Point Counter Point was
deeply influenced by, not to say modelled
upon, Gide’s Faux-Monnayeurs.
If M. Gide has a model for his
journals, it is Montaigne, and maybe, if
Montaigne were to open M. Gide’s
journals, we should hear some remarks
not dissimilar from M. Gide’s remarks on
Huxley. Member of a merchant family
turned landed squires ; lawyer, magistrate,
mayor and scholar; not so much
learned, as capable of exposing his own
personality in the light of ideas; prac-
tically the inventor of the private mind
which lies hidden behind men’s public
appearances, and calls formal systems to
the bar of personal emotion and indi-
vidual prejudices, Montaigne spread
doubt in writings which seemed to up-
hold established religion, and in politics
prepared the way for Henry of Navarre,
by becoming Catholic, to end the religious
brawling which was tearing France to
pieces:
It was for Montaigne [says J. M. Robert-
son] to play hie sapper and miner of the
old order of things; and this purpose, once
fortuitously formed, can be seen to underlie
at length the bulk of his writing.
No doubt M. Gide also sees himself
as “the sapper and miner of the old order
of things” ; but the gamin intelligence of
the advanced French mind, which pro-
duced and nourished such as Cocteau and
Dali, plays queer tricks with Montaigne’s
method of self-exposition, its free inquiry
and its honesty. For the profound friend-
ship Montaigne had for the young lawyer,
Etienne de la Boetie, the memory of
which influenced Montaigne’s whole life
and studies, M. Gide substitutes praise
of homosexuality.
On the other hand, when his wife,
Emmanuele, died in 1938, he ruled two
lines in his journal, and the entries for
the ensuing months testify to his grief.
The friend of his tortured childhood, she
had at first refused to marry him because
marriage, she felt, would spoil the purity
of the lives which, in their adolescence,
they contemplated leading. Some years
later (1895), they were married, but soon
were estranged because of M. Gide’s per-
verse ideas and dissolute living in Paris;
and later still came together again, on
what understanding the diaries do not
completely reveal.
The liking for having a foot in both
camps is revealed also in M. Gide’s
politics. A fellow-traveller who would
like to be recognised as a prophet of
Communism if Communism succeeds, he
finds Marx intolerable and the U.S.S.R.
a betrayal of the Communist revolution.
But he still believes in Communism—/ e
m whatever he understands by Com’
mumsm. In the little book he put out
after a trip to Russia in 1936, he admitted
that not even in Hitler’s Germany was
tree speech more dragooned than in
Russia; and in Sorrento in 1937, observ-
ing Mussolini’s posters— Believe. Obey
Fight—he writes that “Three-quarters of
the Italian inscriptions would be just as
suitable to the walls of Moscow ” and
that:— a
Historians of the future will examine
how and why, the end disappearing behind
the means, the Communist spirit ceased to
j? °PP° se d to the Fascist spirit, and even
differentiated from it.
If M. Gide is “playing the sapper and
miner of the old order of things,” morally
to get acceptance for homosexuality, and
politically for Communism, then “play,
ing” seems to be the right word for it—
he is playing Montaigne. Montaigne’s
sincerity is that of a man anxious to find
himself in his writing; Gide’s is a sin-
cerity of small vanities ; Montaigne conies
home to us very much as " Wells came
home to his times, as an enlivening and
consoling spirit; Gide is seldom more
than amusing. But, taken at the level of
reminiscences, there are some illuminating
pieces in his journal, as of his friend Paul
Valery, bored at a radio council;
The name of the Iliad having been pro-
nounced, Paul leans toward me and in a
low voice:
. ‘ D ° you know anything more boring
than the Iliad?"
Dominating a sudden protest, I find it
more.... friendly to reply :
“Yes, the Chanson de Roland," which
makes him agree at once.
And, although he has a dislike of wit,
he very properly recorded Valery’s
remark; “At our age one has resigned
oneself to the masterpieces of others.”
There are few portraits in this slice of
the Journals; there is a fine one of
Malraux and his family, Malraux having
just flown home from Madrid for two
days respite from the Spanish war, in
which he was flying planes for the
Loyalists; but the best set-piece, remi-
niscent of a Dobell painting, is that of
Catulle Mendes, the poet;
■ 'Y 3 ® iu 3 theatrp lobby during an
mteimission. He had on his arm an enor-
mous tart, wearing a frightfully low-necked
gown (lor the epoch), who was simpering
and manipulating her fan; he himself, in
evening dress, thrusting out his pot belly,
throwing back his head . . . He was wearing
a low, wide-winged collar, from which
cascaded a soft white silk tie; his long
blond hair made a dull halo \ his languish-
mg and insipid eyes glanced from under
heavy, half-closed lids. The couple was
so large, so voluminous, that it blocked
the passage Both of them seemed bone-
less, soft, and as if covered with vaseline.
They gave off an extraordinary scent of
eau de Cologne or Lubin water, of toilet
water, of library paste, of the bed, and
of cigarette butts....
He gets a letter from Jammes, the
poet, asking permission to call a book,
in which Gide is satirised, “L’Antigyde”:
And since I reply at once that I consent
(for it will not be said that I am keeping
a child irom romping), J receive a new
letter . . . “I have not yet offered this
book to any publisher. If you dangled it
before Grasset’s or Fiammarion’s eyes, and
the request for it came from one of them
through _ you, that would be pluperfect
diplomatically.” I preciously preserve these
two letters in order to convince myself
that I did not invent them.
As publisher of La Nouvelle Revue
Frangaise, he backs up his editor:
I receive a visit from a young Com-
munist of twenty-six, who looks only
twenty; he is bringing me an article in
which, if you take his word for it, he
has forever shut up Benda; the latter,
recognising that he would have no reply
to this, has presumably opposed the inclu-
sion of this article in the N.R.F. The
above-mentioned young man counts on me
to go oyer his head. The interest of - the
Party is involved in the acceptance of the
article. It is not he (whose name I have
forgotten) who is involved, but the cause,
and I am betraying the Party if I do not
force Paulhan’s hand. As I tell him that
I have always left Paulhan complete free-
dom of choice, that, in short, I refuse to
intervene, he declares while raising his
voice that he is “stunned,” profoundly
disappointed, that after my declarations
he had a right to expect me to support
him and, since that’s the way it is, he is
ready to relate as loud as he can my
falling away, my desertion. I tell him that
this is blackmail: at once he exclaims: “To
be sure; but legitimate blackmail . . .”
He talks louder and louder, gets excited,
seizes me by the arm; eventually I put a
chair between us . . . “Is that really your
(Continued on inside bade cover.)
The Lory.
On the bough of blue summer
hangs one crimson berry.
Like the blood of a lover
is the breast of the lory.
The blood-drinking butcher-b*rds
pray and sing together.
They long to gather from his bread ?!
the red of one feather ;
But “The heart’s red is my reward,**
the old crow cries.
“Til wear his color on my black
the day the lory dies.’’
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


■f^dveztliiruj
IZutk
m
ft
(2
NTHONY HORDERNS
The gift thaVs right from every angle!
Top Quality Hats
from 33'9
Right.
Woodrow Hats are smartly styled with cut edge brims
2|in. or 2fin. wide, satin lined, Greys, Fawn, Brown. 56/-
flenderson Royal Standard quality Hats; colours o£
Light/Med. Grey, Steel, Blue, Fawn, Mid/Dk. Brown. 33/9
Panama Hats are qool for hot summer days. 35/-
Puggarees available; coloured, plain or fancy designs. 3/11
Cavalier Hats of Tudor quality with bound brim,
satin lining. Light, Med. or Dark Grey, Fawn, Brown. 37/6
;SSSSa
iiiii
mmamm
<*&
W:-
mm
33/9
35/
.
m
W
a
mu.
37/6
m
v •• ■*
: V I
from
5'6
V* •
“Nice to come home to”
mm.
m
m
7
vc
Left.
Nielsen Yale
Semi-Grecian with
wedge cushioned heels.
In Black, Brown or
Burgundy Kid.
Sizes 5 to 12. 39/6.
Top right.
Nielsen Harvard
Albert with wedge
cushion heel. In Brown,
Black, Burgundy Kid.
Sizes 5 to 12. 39/6.
Bottom right.
Nielsen Aristocrat
Grecian in Tan,
Burgundy or Black Kid
with Red or Blue piping.
Sizes 5 to 12. 35/6.
m
mmm
SHOPPERS
DIGEST
AJJSTRAL BREEZE
ELECTRIC FANS
59/6
This Fan is the fixed
type with Sin. diameter.
Finished in Broxun
brocade enamel, with 6 ft,
flex; plug extra,
A.C. only.
THE NEW S.T.C.
WAFFLE IRON
£5/7/6
Complete with recipe
book and 12 months’
guarantee. Waffles xvill be
light and delicious.
Flex and plugs 6/- extra.
JUST ARRIVED!
ELECTRIC JUG, 33/6
Sunshine Jug boils
H pints water in 2 mins.
Suitable for A.C. only.
Flex and plugs 6/- extra.
THE NEW H.M.V.
ELECTRIC IRON
With controlled heat,
boasts heat resisting
bakelite handle and
9ft. of flex. £4/4/-.
Plug extra.
THE ELECrmc
SANDWI'JH TOASTER
For either one, two or
three decker sandwiches,
this Toaster makes
them crisp and brown
all over. With highly
polished plated finish.
Price, £5/9/6.
Flex, plugs, 6/- extra.
II
MEN’S WEAR—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE ST. ELECTRICAL DEPT.—GROUND FLOOR,


A Page of Verse
Bathymeter.
Those who have descended to the nether-
most deeps
Of the ocean sealed in a bell
Past where the last blue-violet creeps
Imperceptibly away, and have hung
Suspended on a filament in utter dark.
While above them rung on rung
The colors of the spectrum ladder rise,
Say that the fish have lights
Like rows of portholes, dots around their
eyes.
Headlamps of fluorescent studs.
Or lanterns hung on poles,
And the darkness is alive with moving
buds
Of phosphorescence; fish with dim-lit
sails.
Shrimps that explode
' In an enemy’s face, and clouds of lumin-
, ous snails.
i
; And those who have been up in a balloon
So high the pale blue sky goes dark,
1 And darker, and the sun and moon
Burn pitilessly, say
The myriad stars appear
Shining at high noon of the brightest day.
i
; In a liquid atmosphere that presses tight
With a multitude of tons.
Fish scrawl an aimless script direct in
light;
While high above, a multitude of suns
In eternal night
Dance to a cosmic tune. And midway
runs,
Precariously swung between extremes,
Our film of atmosphere, where light’s
diffused,
A narrow equipoise of pressure, heat and
cold. It seems
This dance of stars in solemn time
And fiih in swing is certain proof the
Lord,
Whoever he be, cannot resist a rhyme.
N.Z.
W. HATT-SMITH.
Dust.
Dust on my hands
Like death’s ash clings
Where the sun burns blue
And the crow sings.
Dust on my lips
Has death’s tang
Where the silence seethes
And red airs hang.
Dust in my throat
Dries song to a croak.
, Oh to speak beauty,
But dust first spoke.
N.S.W.
DAVID ROWBOTHAM.
Notice-hoard .
We are still less god than man,
More human than divine;
Ten thousand years ago the Hand began
The drawing and has added but one line;
The wilful human eye,
Hungry for print,
Will strain and squint
To read some warning-board
While, all ignored,
Beyond it giant ranges glow
With sunset scarlet in their flanks of
snow,
Mysterious, serene,
Unworshipped, nay, unseen.
N.Z.
Arnold Wall.
Child with a Skipping-rope.
Though you skip to the world’s end
My dear, my pretty dear.
You will not find anything
Not to be found here.
For I have been to the world’s end,
I skipped there light and free ;
There was both joy and sorrow
And an old blasted tree —
Just the same, the same, my dear,
As that one you will meet
If you don’t watch where you’re going
At the end of the street.
And if you do not skip too far
You may grow more wise
Than one who could not stop and has
Great distance in her eyes.
You may get wisdom in peace then
Without that bitter tear
' That was all my booty from the world’s
end.
My dear, my pretty dear.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.
The Lonely Fire.
Silent under the moon the white shore
road
Unwinds its miles. No leaping fish has
stirred
The wide still water, clear and dark close
in
And farther out a sheet of milky silver
The great black hills of bush ring all
around.
From the leaves of beaten metal no cry
of a bird,
From the naked gleaming limbs of the
gums, from the pools
Of inky shade, no sound.
And now in the township under the rocky
height
No one’s awake and abroad. Not even
a cat
Hunts moths and bright-eyed mice in the
long pale grass.
In the huddled houses only the moon’s
chilled white
Glitters back from the small blind panes.
No open door.
No warmth of voice or light.
Only red on the wharf one fire burns.
Only the madman’s voice makes broken
song ;
His hollow, bearded face haunts the
smoke, returns
And fades like the veering of his derelict
mind
That now by no day or night, by shout
or flame.
Can signal to its kind.
How far has he walked since he sang in
the orange orchards —
Golden fruit and glossy leaves in the
winter sun —
Till the picking was over and the men
paid off,
How many miles of white road since that
sun went down ?
And cold and hunger crept out of the
, dusk to his side,
Fear crouched in the shadowy bush —
but all that’s done.
He’ll travel no farther—how far from
the young man’s grace,
His pride, his hope, to this place?
O, you behind your blank windows, lift
your heads „ listen!
You cannot shut out his voice, for it is
your own
And mine, and Man’s — lost, mad enough
for scorning;
We have come down our roads to this
ending, each alone,
And now must walk with ghosts in the
silver night
And fear the bloodstained morning.
No answer. It may be you are wiser
than I :
Something strange, enormous, is abroad
tonight.
Let me find my hole, too, burrowing in
blankets for fear
Of this vast white hush of water, earth,
and sky.
Is it the death of the world already be-
ginning ?
Or is it that in the stillness God leans
near
To hear the madman’s cry ?
n.s.w.
NAN McDONALD.
A Friend's Visit.
Any two of our dozen, meeting face to
face
under midnight or blindness or the dis-
guise of years,
could know each other that instant by
words, sudden on the ears,
out of an old time and a far-away place;
can yarn, one with another, sure that the
image in mind
below any uttered thought is caught up
unimpaired—
as common and of our lives and under-
stood and shared;
though a stranger, sifting speech, might
feel for it and not find.
Each knows, from scars on memory and
loneliness where he has been,
the work and difficult days where his
fellow is looking back
along the crest of a ridge or a creek or a
native tracks
and sees with the other’s eyes because he
himself has seen.
And it is a closer thing than the ordinary
bond
of theodolite and chain and good tech-
nical talk
that once we slept and ate in those
villages, and can walk
through retrospects —hot valleys with dark
mountains beyond.
N.S.W.
ROBERT D. FITZGERALD.
Noon Has All Day.
Noon has all day, a lifetime. Look!
The roving eye of the still hawk
Who shoulders there beside the sun,
Takes the man for carrion —
Sprawled in the cast-off shade the trees
Have worn to daylight at the knees.
The bird is still. What is his dream ?
A sun foundered in the dam
And golden bones to pick? But where
The swiagman’s fire stands up on air.
The hawk hooded in reverie
Has come to rest upon that tree.
A.C.T,
DAVID CAMPBELL.
Painter of Umbria.
Francesco Calvi, Umbrian by birth,
A silent lad, scraped angels in the dust,
Then struck for pens and brushes,
swagged them up
C Aged twelve or thereabouts) and quit
his town.
Whiter than oxen with the dust he trod
When these he passed, and taller by a
length
Than the last roof-tops of San Severo
Diminished , as he reached the further
slope
And, looking back, appraised the distance
done,
He came to Florence. Once apprenticed
there
Forgot the olive-trees, the Umbrian hills,
The small black tempests of the cypresses
In the blue morning.
Briefly, made his mark.
Proffered his studies to the Priory
( Jostling his fellow-students for the laurel)
And now with brush upon the chapter-
walls
He hymns his praises.
Stroke on stroke of paint
Builds up his perfect Virgin. There she
sits
Enthroned beneath a Gothic canopy
Her hands held upwards, fingers touch-
ing thus,
Two thin white lilies pressed against the
wind.
Devout her eyes, her soul attuned to hear
Angelic voices heralding a birth.
Attentive to angels, diligent to lilies,
Francesco Calvi paints from dawn to
darkness,
Then lights a taper; ponders his creation.
At night he dreams of angels. All day
long
Their bright wings brush against him, till
it seems
The world is Florence, Florence is the
chapel
And all the people in his world angelic.
Now is the marbled floor almost com-
pleted ;
The shining walls and towers beyond the
window.
The flowers falling through the air from
Heaven
Want not a brush-stroke.
One place is empty ,
Waiting among that lovely brood of crea-
tures.
Fit space to put a man in. Our Fran-
cesco,
Grown old and tired beside his magnum
opus,
Measures his height against the un-
painted plaster.
Straightens his back, puts down at last his
brushes
And joins his angels grouped about the
Virgin.
The legend says they sang an Ave of
welcome
Till all the monks turned over in their
slumbers
And climbed a further rung up Jacob’s
ladder.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
The Journey.
He was the man they chose to fly alone
to search at the end of the sea for the
Blessed Isles;
often enough reported, still unknown
they had survived forgotten, untouched,
so late
because of a lost chart and a million
miles.
But now they must come under the care
of the State.
It was he, the singleminded carman,
whom they chose
to place on the 'maps again that land of
the lost rose.
The mission was secret, but at the
aerodrome
a great official waited among his guard,
gave him his orders and messages from
home,
spoke of the honor to him of such a choice
and hinted at promotion and reward.
Then from the amplifiers rang out the
Voice —
the eternal indisputable Voice that
everywhere
follows citizen, farmer or man of the
air —
The Voice that knows the mind of
everyone
and through the clustered trumpets in
street and square
is daily magnified, cold and busy as a
machine-gun
with bulletin, prophecy, threat or
denunciation.
“Here is a special message. One of our
men of the air
is setting out today to an unknown
destination
to further the State’s plans. The people
of the State will now
join their thoughts to wish him all that the
fates allow.”
There were a million miles of sea and
cloud.
The dials moved calmly, thd* polished
instruments
followed instructions, the Voice in his ear
was loud.
He hung on the Voice, a foetus hung on its
cord.
Its level stream was 1 rippled with
incidents —
the presentation of a medal, a civil award,
a flash from a traitor’s trial, the sudden
familiar noise
of a firing-party’s rifles —and again the
Voice.
But up from the cloud-floor a forest began
to grow—
branched and wonderful trees climbed,
dazzling in light,
thrusting him upwards. The plane scaled
hills of snow
so high that ice began to weight his wings
and he dived again into blind moving
white.
And now, in that country of nothings
shaped like things,
the Voice faltered, fading to silence in
his ear
and leaving him suddenly alone with fear.
Oh Lord of the terrors of silence, open
your hand!
Oh Voice, return and fill my emptiness!
He dropped through mist treacherous as
quicksand
where the voices of nothing wove and sang
their song;
he fought with the radio, trembling in
distress,
but nothing was wrong, he could find
nothing wrong.
Then from the floors of cloud he fell, and
below
lay the silent immaculate archipelago.
On the great breast-like curve of eternity
those islands hung tike pearl. Their hills
and shores
were shining shadows answered in a still
sea.
Then he looked up before the plane, and
found
the edge of the air—the cliff where time
and cause
at eternity’s edge disputed their last
ground.
He would turn back, but frightened and
without a guide
his desperate hands were slow. The plane
fell from the cliffside.
How appalling is the terror and the weight
of love! , ,
In the explosion of that instant s
revelation
the body is lost that washes under the
wave
and all is lost but the knowledge of mat
death.
The islands of the saints stir not from
contemplation.
Above their hills light blazes, and beneath
the angel clouds whose image fills the sea
the bones of the dead hold their vision of
eternity.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vol. 70 —No. 3643
Wednesday, December 7, 1949
A MAORILAND ERUPTION.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
XT Box 2521; ’Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SOCIALISM—NOW.
Socialism, though it manifests itself in
different ways in the public mind —such
as in the high cost of living, the petrol
shortage and the underproduction of coal
and building materials —remains the
fundamental issue of this Federal elec-
tion. Mr. Chifley, in his many twistings
and turnings on the matter, has inferred
that hi§ party has no intention of
nationalising small businesses, farms and
that sort of thing, even though, as he
told a Hobart audience, “we are not
backing down on socialisation.” Mr.
Chifley, of course, is the chief spokesman
and figurehead of the Socialist party in
Australia at the present time, and an ex-
tremely pigheaded figurehead at that;
but as a fatheaded figurehead he is hardly
in the same class as that other pledged
Socialist, James McGirr, “Labor” Premier
of N. S. Wales.
Premier McGirr represents “Labor” in
a State which has been something of a
trial ground for Federal Socialism. It
was McGirr who, with an election on
his hands, introduced the 40-hour week
in his State ahead of the recommenda-
tion of the Federal Socialists to the Arbi-
tration Court, which subsequently made
a Federal award of 40 hours. When the
ruinous effects of the 40-hour week —as
it was worked under Socialism—be-
came evident in N.S.W. some months be-
fore they were visible in other States, Mr,
McGirr treated all concerned to an
arresting demonstration of how a com-
pletely blind eye could be turned to the
financial and industrial havoc created —
and at the same time affect to see “pros-
perity” fairly blooming amidst the ruins
of industrial production, public transport
and living standards. His fat political
hide seemed to be vulnerable to only two
things political defeat and public
criticism.
Financial disaster as he has been to
his State, political shuffler, bad loser,
squealer and all, Premier McGirr is none-
theless all of the petty tyrant one is
accustomed to find among the ranks of
Socialist Ministers. Having lost the
Coogee, Kogarah and Concord by-elec-
tions, McGirr squealed like a backfatter
—blaming money-power (and a McGirr
should know all about that) and the
Press for a disgusted electorate’s rejec-
tion of a pusillanimous Socialist mob
which had failed to get coal, see that
materials for home-building were made
available as needed, or conduct the affairs
of the State in a way that would enable
an industrious people to enjoy the
potential wealth and wellbeing that is
rightly theirs. The McGirr post-by-
election squealing was quickly followed
by his legislation to muzzle the N. S.
Wales Press for three clear days before a
State election or by-election.
Such is the measure of the Socialist
leader in N. S. Wales —the politician who,
in 1947, talked of 90,000 new homes to
be built in his State in three years, and
whose ostentatious and extravagant
Housing Commission, with all its
despotism and powers to obstruct the
private builder, in the 12 months to June
30 last completed only 3727 houses, in-
cluding “military hutments” recondi-
tioned, “sleepouts” and “imported pre-
fabricateds.”
In N. S. Wales conscientious builders
—and, on test, builders as a class would
assay at least as much conscience as
Socialist politicians—have had a desperate
time trying to get bricks, tiles, glass, steel,
iron, cement, fibro, timber, piping, baths,
stoves and a dozen other things. Root
cause of this soul-wearying scarcity has
been the failure of the Chifley-McGirr
Joint Coal Board to get enough coal. The
small builder spends a disproportionate
amount of his time scrounging essential
materials because, under Chifley-McGirr
Socialism, they are so hard to get. Build-
ing costs have soared, as soar they must
under existing Socialist Administrations.
The cost of State Housing Commission
cottages is prodigious.
Harassed builders in the Sydney
metropolitan area are contemplating
throwing in the towel altogether since
they received the latest evidence of how
the McGirr Government proposes to run
them into the ground in the recognised
Socialist manner. The brutal high-
handedness of this order (from Mr.
Finnan’s department) is evident on the
face of it:
DEPARTMENT OF LABOUR AND
INDUSTRY AND SOCIAL WELFARE,
N.S.W.
Prices Regulation Act, 1948-1949.
Notice in Writing.
To—
Mr. A B ,
51 Street,
Bankstown.
TAKE NOTICE that, pursuant to the powers
in that behalf conferred by Section 57 (2) of
the Prices Regulation Act, 1948/1949, I DO
by this Notice in Writing direct you, A
B ,51 —- Street, Bankstown, to keep the
following:
(a) A daily diary and/or wages sheet record-
ing the actual hours each day during which
your employees and/or you yourself are
reasonably and necessarily engaged upon
the direct execution of any work in
respect of which a charge is made, and
in respect of that work the name of the
person charged and the place where the
job is done, and in respect of each work-
man, his name, wages rate, trade classifica-
tion, and whether he is a journeyman,
apprentice (state year of apprenticeship),
or Commonwealth Reconstruction Scheme
Trainee (state wages rate actually paid
and not recoverable by you).
(b) A separate record of each job in respect
of which a charge is made, setting forth —
(i) The name and address of the person
charged and the total charge for the
job;
(ii) A description or specification of the
work;
(iii) The days and times during which
your employees and/or you yourself
are reasonably and necessarily en-
gaged upon the direct execution of
the work;
(iv) In respect of each workman, his
name and trade classification, the
total hours worked as in (iii) hereof,
the rate per hour charged and
amount charged by you in respect of
those hours;
(v) The amount charged by you for
Holiday Pay, in respect of employees’
time referred to in (iii) hereof;
(vi) The quantity and description of
materials supplied and/or of services
provided by other traders in the
course of execution of the work, the
amount disbursed by you for the
purchase of the materials and/or for
the services of other traders, and the
charge made by you in respect of
such materials and/or services;
(vii) The amount (if any) charged by you
for Workmen’s Compensation Insur-
ance and Pay Roll Tax in respect of
employees’ times referred to in (iii)
hereof, and for Public Risk Insurance
in respect of the work the subject of
the charge;
(viii) The amounts charged by you for fees
paid to local authorities for permits
and services.
(ix) The amount charged by you for your
expenditure not otherwise recouped
on any necessary shed and con-
venience provided, showing details
of the calculation of the charge.
(x) The amount charged for deprecia-
tion or hire of plant supplied for
use on the job, showing details con-
cerning the calculation of the charge
and concerning the plant thus used.
(xi) A statement of the percentage added
in the charge, of the amount on
which such percentage is calculated,
and of the money value of such per-
centage.
(c) A separate record in respect of each job
for which a tender, quotation, or estimate
is given, recording, with the necessary
formal alterations, the same particulars
as required by (b) (i) to (xi) above.
AND TAKE NOTICE that failure to comply
with this Notice in Writing will render you,
A B , liable to prosecution for a breach
of Regulation 57 which provides as follows:
“Eveiy person to whom any such direction
is given shall comply with the direction
and shall preserve the books, accounts
and records required to be kept by him
in accordance with the direction until
their destruction is authorised by the
Commissioner.”
(Signed): Delegate of the
Acting Prices Commissioner,
That (name and address only altered)
went out by registered post during
the month of November this year. In
it the builder is treated by the Socialist
Administration like a potential criminal.
Forced into being a scrounger by a
scarcity materials unknown before the
advent of the Socialists, he now has to
spend a certain time each day licking the
Socialist boot: he must hire a clerk
at perhaps £l2 a week or more to
keep the Socialist “daily diary,” etc., or
knock off building homes in order to do
the work himself —if he has the capacity
for such clerical work. Whatever the
loss or expense, he is not permitted to
charge for it under the Socialist price-
formula. It must come out of his own
margin, which is restricted to 10 p.c, on
direct building outlay.
Mr. Chifley says it is not “Labor’s”
intention to socialise small businesses.
Only monopolies, banking, etc., are to be
dealt with under “Labor’s” socialisation
plank—so he infers. But here is a
flagrant case of Socialism in practice—
and provided the Boss Socialists are not
playing favorites, and are treating all
builders alike, about 2000 “builders and
contractors,” mostly small men, will be
affected in the metropolitan area
alone, according to the “pink pages”
of the Sydney Telephone Directory.
No “monopoly” here, surely!
Any farmer, small manufacturer, shop-
keeper or professional man should be
able to gather, from that which has been
served up to Sydney builders, what is
likely to happen to him if the Socialists
are permitted to go any further. If it is
constitutional for those engaged in build-
ing homes for the community to be so
tie'd by red-tape and intimidation to the
Socialist wheel, then the Constitution is
no bar at all to Socialist schemes for the
strangulation of any private enterprise,
however small that enterprise, industrial
or rural, may be.
The People's Last Chance.
As the election campaign draws to its
close not all the platform arts and dodges
of the Socialists can deny the supreme
issue for the popular decision which the
Chifley Government has tried to avoid —
that of whether Australia is to adopt the
programme for a Socialist State, run
under a central dictatorship.
The means towards the establishment
of this system of despotism is “the class
war,” which has already gravely weakened
the strength of Britain among the nations.
The objective, as set out in “Labor’s”
own platform, is “the socialisation of
industry, production, distribution and ex-
change” ; and in these eight words is
prescribed the entire purpose of Mr.
Chifley’s party in seeking control of our
machine of government. Each member
of the party is personally pledged to
work for this purpose. The methods
and the principles of action laid down
in the “Labor” platform are entirely
devoted to service of the socialisation
objective.
Nothing is more eloquent of the sur-
render of the once robustly Australian
“Labor” party tq Communist influence
and the class war, its abandonment of
any claim to govern in the interests of
all sections —or, indeed, in any interest
at all except the Socialist revolution —
than the studied silence of Mr. Chifley,
his Ministers and campaign-directors on
the party’s attitude towards this issue.
Only the Left-wingers of the political
wing, led by Mr. Ward, declare boldly
that for “Labor” it is either socialisation
or nothing, and that socialisation shall (if
the electors return this Government to
power) be installed either with submission
of the people, or by other means. All Mr.
Chifley will admit is that “the Labor
party’s policy of socialisation is not dead.
We are not backing down on sociali-
sation.”
But he will not meet the challenge
in detail, or treat the issue as one on
which the Government is willing to stand
or fall. He wants a blank cheque. He
refuses to say a word from the
platform about the issue of Communist
influence within the “Labor” party and
“movement,” though the bitterest feuds
are being waged in most leading unions
between Communist agitators and the
champions of the rank-and-file whom the
Communists have exploited for subversive
ends. Mr. Chifley’s silence on the need
to cast out these destroyers of peace in
industry makes clear that the disastrous
and unnecessary coal strike of four
months ago has taught his Government
nothings
Since the Socialist State of theory be-
comes in practice nothing but a half-way
house to the Communist State —as all
experience in Europe has shown over the
past five years—the issues here for the
electors are really one and the same. If
they want the Socialist State, then they
will, like the Chifley Ministry, tolerate
the Communists and their “philosophy”
as allies in the effort to achieve it. This
issue, however, is not one for the electors,
says Mr. Chifley. Is that so? On the
contrary, unless Mr. Chifley forswears
the objective his party stands for, sociali-
sation most certainly is the issue, and
the chance next Saturday to reject it is
one which the electors may never re-
possess themselves.
Besides, it is not for Mr. Chifley and
his party alone to declare the issues on
which the elections will turn. There
is no mistaking the attention and the
approval with which great audiences have
heard Mr. Menzies declare the issue:
This is our great year of decision. Are
we for the Socialist State, with its subor-
dination of the individual to the universal
officialdom of government, or are we for
the ancient British faith that Governments
are the servants of the people?....
In 1946 you could vote “Labor” reason-
ably supposing it was a party of reform
and not of socialisation. In 1949 it is
clear that a “Labor” vote is a vote for the
Socialist objective and nothing else for
the Master State, the one employer, the
one planner, the one controller. In that
State, as in the monstrous totalitarian
States which have disfigured the twentieth
century, all free choice will have gone
You cannot have a controlled economy
without controlling human beings, who are
still the greatest of all economic factors.
You cannot socialise the means of produc-
tion without socialising men and women.
Unless people do what they are told,
work where they are told to work, leam
what they are drafted to leam — is a _
tence, fit obediently into their apppmrw
place—the Socialist “planned State tsu
to pieces like the false and shoddy
it is. The Socialists of Great
nearer to the Socialist precipice than wc
are in Australia, are already introducing
industrial conscription....
Indeed they are. On October 27 last
the Attlee Government appointed a
special committee to review immediately
the Government’s manpower policy
already expressed in the “Labor Enforce-
ment Order” of 1947 —and Chancellor
Cripps has announced:
No one can now be guaranteed work
in his own job, or even in his own trade.
To insist upon the present pattern or
employment would be to destroy all nope
of full employment.
This is the political issue which
Mr, Chifley is trying to avoid.
Surely, if his attitude before tbo
electors were sincere, he would admit
to them that he is not seeking a.
mandate to carry out the party’s
objective ; or, at least, since he finds such
dislike of socialisation among the majority
of Australians, he would agree with Mr.
Menzies’s proposal, which is part of the
Liberal-Country policy, “to amend the
Constitution to make it impossible for
Socialist legislation (such as the 1947
Bank Act) to be passed without approval
given at a referendum.”* That would be
the honest course; but, in truth, this
argument cuts no ice whatever with the
Socialist leader, whose behavior during
the past three years has shown that he
knows he could not get a mandate for
socialisation of banking or any other in-
dustry, and plans to defeat that obstacle
by stratagem—by winning on (say) the
high world price of wheat (the famine that
represents abroad being his party’s con-
tribution to Australia’s prosperity!), and
then interpreting his “mandate” as one
to create a Government Socialist mono-
poly in any industry by administrative
tactics of squeeze and freeze.
The convinced revolutionaries behind
this hypocritical leader make no bones at
all about the interpretation they will give
to a vote for “Labor.” Their views are
fairly set forth in a letter published on
November 27 by Melbourne “Age” from
a spokesman in’East Malvern:
If any criticism is to be levelled at our
Federal Ministers and Labor candidates it
should be of the timidity they are showing
in regard to the party’s objective, the
achievement of which is the end to which
all legislation is enacted.
True Labor supporters are anxious that
that objective—the socialisation of industry,
production, distribution and exchange —be
attained as soon as possible, but require
some pre-election evidence from their
present and future Parliamentary rep-
resentatives of their intention to carry out
the 1948 triennial A.L.P. Conference’s
unanimous decision to reach the ultimate
goal within the next three years.
Who is Mr. Chifley going to let down
if he gets back to office with a blank
cheque? The electors who (as in 1946)
might trust him when he protests that the
socialisation objective does not mean
what it says? Or the “true ‘Labor’ sup-
porters” who will tell him that he has
got to carry out the A.L.P. governing
body’s instructions without question?
If the electors agree with him that there
is no issue here, then they have already
bared their necks for the Socialist yoke.
The Lesson of Maoriland.
The results of the New Zealand elections
should make the Lincolns of Canberra
tremble for what seems due to happen on
December 10. Mr. Fraser’s manifesto
had the same approach as the Chifley
manifesto to a pure Socialistic platform.
It claimed that “Labor” rule had brought
unparalleled “prosperity” to the Dominion
and that “Labor’s” past record “provided
the best guarantee that benefits already
obtained would be safeguarded.” It laid
emphasis on “Labor’s” plans for “security
for all,” with particular stress on “full
employment.”
Against the Government’s programme
was arrayed a straightforward free-enter-
prise policy put forward by Mr.
Holland and his Nationalists. It had all
the main features of the programmes of
Messrs. Menzies and Fadden adapted to
Maoriland conditions.
In combating this, Mr. Fraser had some
advantages over the Australian “Labor”
leaders. Nobody had ever likened
him in an organised way to either
Honest Abe or George Washington. He
had also the very great advantage that
he had shown the courage of his con-
victions in the matter of defence. His
record as Prime Minister during World
War II was a splendid one, unmarred
by noisy boasting, undisgraced by inci-
dents like the Brisbane Line lie, which
has only been equalled in its baseness
by the Hytten and Menzies “unemploy-
ment-pool” lies in the Australian scene.
Furthermore, he risked his leadership
last year courageously on the question o:
compulsory training. His-attitude on


that vital subject has been inspiring by
comparison with that of Dr. Evatt, who
is stumping the country attempting
shamefully to frighten women voters into
support of “Labor” by tales of the
horrors of universal military training, and
courageous beside that of Mr. Chifley s
galaxy of “defence” Ministers, not one
of whom has shown sand enough during
the election campaign to face the issue
of military training squarely.
Lastly, Mr. Fraser has not regarded
Communism as a mere “political philo-
sophy,” as the Chifley Socialists have
done. c
Yet, in spite of these credits and torn
“free” seats donated by the Maoris, and
in spite of the fact that he was not an
advocate of the class war as it is
conceived by the Chifleys and the Cal-
wells, the Wards and the Dedmans and
the Haylens, Mr. Fraser has been beaten.
From having a party of 42, which gave
him a narrow majority of three after the
Speaker had been provided, he now has
one of 34, and Mr. Holland goes into
office with a clear working majority of
11 after the Speakership has been filled.
Mr. Fraser himself, whose opponent
was a woman candidate, Mrs. Berta
Burns, had his majority cut from 3945 to
2751, but his experience was common to
almost all his followers in the matter of
majorities. Two Ministers were defeated
—Messrs. Nordmeyer, who held the por-
folios of Industries, Commerce, Supply
and Munitions, and E. L. Cullen, whose
field was Agriculture and Marketing. Mr.
Jones, Defence Minister, crept in by the
skin of his teeth, and Mr. Langstone, a
former “Labor” Minister who broke with
the party on the ground of compulsory
training, followed other strong anti-
conscription” supporters into a well-
deserved oblivion.
In plain language, the result of the elec-
tion was specifically a rout for Socialism.
It was, as Mr. Fraser himself said after
the poll, “a definite reverse,” one so
marked that no party could fail to accept
it. .
Accept it Mr. Fraser himself did, judg-
ing by his speech, without rancor. Ihe
interchange between the retiring and the
new Prime Minister, indeed, sounded
strange when it came over the radio to a
land where to Socialism is added a savage
class war as the result of which the
leaders of Australian “Labor” are unable
to conceive co-operation with the other
side in any circumstances whatever, and in
which Labor policy has become such that
anything short of destruction of the exist-
ing system of free enterprise by fair
means or otherwise is looked upon as a
milk-and-water programme.
Mr, Fraser in his valedictory declared
that the new Government was facing
world conditions which were probably the
most difficult in history, and he wished
them well so long as they followed the
best interests of the country, and promised
his constitutional support in the tradition
of British Parliamentary Oppositions. Mr.
Holland was able to reciprocate by an
admission that the “Labor” Government
left behind it much that would endure,
and to send the former Prime Minister his
“cordial good wishes” with the hope that
Government and Opposition would be
able to collaborate as they had in the past,
so far as their respective functions and
duties allowed. He mentioned that the
election campaign had been conducted
“in an exceptionally good spirit,” which
enabled him to “pay tribute to Mr. Fraser,
who will always command admiration for
the tenacity with which he led his party.”
On the basis of this interchange Maori-
landers can look forward to a continuance
of the British tradition in government.
Observers of the Australian political cam-
paign wish that they could do the same.
On the “Labor” side the brazen lying, the
intimidation of electors and of the Press,
the government-by-caucus, the gagging of
Parliamentary debate, the repeated assur-
ances that civilisation cannot flourish until
a way has been found of plucking the
capitalist fowl all bespeak both the
atmosphere of class war and the probable
fate of “Labor” opponents if Mr. Chifley
and the rest of his political standover
men are returned to power.
The circumstances are such, the future
so threatening and dangerous to every-
thing which even smacks of democratic
freedom, that it is to be hoped the
electors next Saturday will not limit them-
selves merely to a routine defeat of the
socialisation platform which the Prime
Minister has proved himself afraid to
discuss.
What is needed is a verdict which will
shatter the present leadership of the so-
called “Labor” party and destroy the
domination of the Communist union-
leaders over the Labor organisations, and
force the unions and rank-and-file of
Labor men to realise that they must clean
the movement up and rid it of totalitarian
class-war ideas and of its spoils-to-the-
victor complex if it is ever again to be
trusted with governmental power.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Views of a 1903 Voter.
J. E, Webb, who dates as a voter from
the second Commonwealth elections,
writes from Cowper-street, Randwick:
I hope, and expect, that the Opposition will
win the elections, but I wish Opposition
speakers would go in for fewer big words,
which leave the uninitiated cold, and tor a
great many more anger-provoking instances ot
“Labor” rule under a self-fattened Parliamen-
tary caste and a Moscow-directed gang ot
union-bosses. In these matters an ounce ot
illustration is worth a ton of generalisation.
There is a scene in a Wodehouse novel m
which it is decided to flummox a Cockney with
a claim to an earldom by dazzling him with
the dictionary, plus a bribe suitable to his
state of mind. One of the conspirators hope-
fully" suggests that “supererogation” would
clinch the business. I have heard Liberal
spouters from platforms and radio microphones
who painfully reminded me of that scene. t>
I haven’t seen or heard the affair of ‘Dick
Keane’s private importing mentioned by the
Opposition, though what came out after that
Customs Minister’s death looked ugly, and
looks ugly still. And there have been few, it
any, Opposition references to the New Guinea
timber swindle, of which Ward was pronounced
innocent by a Royal Commission, although
there is an unquestionable case for pertinent
campaign questions, particularly as to how the
ex- 07 ex-) Communist Garden got his
Government job and contrived to have the run
of Ward’s office. Nor has Ward been chal-
lenged straightout on his assertion, made as a
Minister of the Crown and never withdrawn
or repudiated by any of his colleagues, that
“the U.S.S.R. has made more progress in 25
years than any capitalist country has made m
ten times that period.” And “progress, as
expressed by this insolent advocate ol Soviet
banking “policy” in contempt of his “leader’
and fellow-Ministers, he has not been asked
to define.
And there’s Canada’s recent 32 per cent, cut in
income tax. In Canada, and especially in the
United Slates, income tax is materially lightened
for old people, partly from humane motives and
in a spirit of gratitude to a declining body of
veterans whose generation did great things for
North America (as the corresponding genera-
tion did for Australia), and partly to encourage
all taxpayers to provide for their declining
years. Here, “Labor” taxes thrifty old people
past working at far higher rates than those it
accords to receivers of “earned” incomes, so
called, including, of course, its bookmaker
friends and members of Caucus, now enjoying
£5OO p.a. more pay and looking fdrward to
£4OO p.a. pensions.
In an Australian case known to me, a man
retired after a working life of 53 years received
an allowance of two years’ salary from his last
employer. An assessment issued last month
shows that “Labor” is charging him on 5 per
cent, of the lump sum at 2/2 in the pound
and demanding £73 195., at 1/6 in the pound,
for “social services,” £5O Bs. being for the year
to June 30, 1950. Yet from the “social-ser-
vices” fund he himself can never draw a penny
now or in the future—that abomination the
“means test” intervenes.
Nor is that the whole story. Throughout
the “Labor” period the veteran in question
has paid £250 to £5OO p.a. (fees for a time
were £8 Bs. a week) for hospital care and
maintenance of an incurable. As abatements
he has never been allowed more than £l5O
p.a. (£5O for the sickness and £lOO because the
patient is “wholly dependent” on him), so in
each of those ten years “Labor” has exacted
tax (and that at a great deal more than 2/2
in the pound when the man had a salary) on
the difference, £lOO to £2OO. The victim of
this bloodsucking preferred submitting to it
to searching in vain for decent accommodation
in one of the chronically overcrowded N.S.W.
Government hospitals—the annual overcrowding
average is 1447 in these particular cases.
Crown-street itself turns away 2000 maternity
cases a year, and has now been forced to con-
sider a proposal that mothers and babies should
be discharged the second day after confinement.
So much for the N.S.W. “Labor” conscienceless
pretence that the party conducting Government
lotteries (prizes untaxed by Chifley, as are
prizes won in the Hanlon and Cosgrove flutters
and members’ contributions to their £B-a-week-
pension fund out of their thoughtfully-increased
salaries).
Apropos of lotteries, we can’t help hear-
ing (from radio-stations) and reading about
other forms of gambling which “Labor” en-
courages, for most of the people in whose
votes, and nothing much else, it is interested,
have gone crazy about gambling on the gallopers,
and on the*night “trots” and “dogs” and John
Wren’s fights and all the rest. Notwithstanding
the almost weekly “scandal,” gambling on the
gallopers has become the principal topic in the
Sydney daily and Sunday papers, eight
altogether, and “Labor” members are among
the regular punters. If these worthies were
capable of perception and reflection they would
perceive that the always-useless pursuit, which
received “Labor’s” highest blessing when the
author of the Sydney Turf Club Act, intro-
duced in 1943 (yes, 1943, when Australian boys
were dying at the enemy’s hands on Australian
territory), was named Governor-General, has
become dangerous.
Dangerous because Australia has moved into
a situation which will call unceasingly for the
intelligent and patriotic exertions of all its
people. Into a future which has become
doubtful, with Japan recovering, China Com-
munist, great aggregations of other Asian
peoples forming in parts nearer this continent,
the friendly Dutch going from Indonesia —
chiefly because a Moscow-ordered maritime-
union boycott, cravenly connived at by “Labor,”
made their position impossible —and with British
India lost and the British position in the parts
of Asia still held perhaps doomed. And
dangerous in internal affairs because if a Slump
follows the boom, as has happened twice in
my time, it will find nearly all the punters
broke and the rest already taxed up to the eyes.
Yet no word of warning or the feeblest pro-
test against the gambling fever is heard from
“Labor”; and Communists, for their own
nefarious purposes, feed the fever. From
“Labor” there never comes a moving or an
uplifting thought. Under its ascendancy there
have been a great and obvious decline in
manners, a revival of larrikinism, and a sinister
increase in numbers and influence of profes-
sional “sports,” many of whom seem to have
done very well out of the war. Not that John
Wren has lost any of his power over “the
movement” —witness the “Labor” proposal that
the Eastern Suburbs railway works should leave
Wren’s hideous stoush barn standing and make
an end of the pretty Rushcutter Bay park, the
only one serving a dense population in that area.
Maoriland Aftermath.
From Auckland: The Nationalists have
a real job in seamanship ahead to bring
Maoriland’s drifting pound under control,
breast up to the wind and anchor the
currency to solid values. For 14 years
rising costs and prices have carried the
pound along on an inflationary tide, with
no port or destination as the goal, and
high wages and other incomes have melted
away in the general swim. Now Maori-
landers are hoping for more real worth
and less paper prosperity. In many direc-
tions the pound today is worth less than
half as much as in 1935, taxes are five
times as high, and there’s a longish list of
shortages,
Maoriland’s trump card, if it’s played
well, is export prosperity, which is still
on the rise, although the peak seems near.
There’s still a chance to get the measure
of the pound, rein in State spending,
squeeze out the worst of inflation and
make things trim and tight before run-
ning into squalls. With three times as
much money floating round as 10 years
ago and production up by less than 25
p.c., while the volume of imports under
Labor-Socialist licensing is down, it
shouldn’t be hard to make a few well-
aimed cuts on the financial front while
throwing in more weight here and there
to help trade and industry, above all basic
enterprises like woollen mills, which haven’t
been holding their own, and farming.
Maorilanders have had their fill of
controls and restrictions, which have a
war-time austerity feel about them, and
are looking for freedom and latitude.
Price-fixing, rationing, import quotas and
pegging of property values have reigned
for too long. If they can’t be swept away
overnight, at least it’s time they were on
the way out. It isn’t just that they’re
irksome; they’ve led to a lot of evasion,
illegal dealing, State paternalism, pin-
pricking interference by inspectors and
officials, delays and waste. “Under-the-
table” payments, exorbitant sums de-
manded as “key-money” for shops,
offices, rooms and houses, and price-
rigging in the used-car market have been
among the objectionable practices that
have grown up and flourished. To stamp
out these, values must be made more
realistic, and that’s what Maorilanders
are asking for.
The property market, bound and hand-
cuffed to 1942 values, which are far below
today’s costs, is in a sick condition,
bordering on stagnation, after years of
fleecing of the public by go-getter sales-
men of homes, farms and building-sites,
and of owners who fell easy victims to
the temptation to lay their hands on easy
profit right under the noses of land-
valuation authorities.
One of many lessons the country has
learned the hard way is that, although it’s
possible to hold the line on the price
front for a time, sooner or later the
public gets up to tricks and won’t play by
the rules. Then the game is as good as
lost. Stabilisation, which began seven years
ago, has generated weaknesses and sown
the seeds of its own downfall. Retreat from
socialisation promises a way of escape.
In the industrial field, price-fixing,
lately masquerading as profit-control,
struck blow after blow at production by
robbing business of incentive, until there
was nothing left to strive for. Industry
will have to go ahead with the brakes off
now, and workers will have to earn their
high wages. Young industries have been
struggling uphill, but those sound at heart
should be able to get into their stride if
inflationary obstacles are cleared away,
overheads are eased and manpower
handicaps are left behind.
To the world, Maoriland’s political
swing is a portent for Socialism every-
where, for the Dominion has been in the
van of socialistic planning; but it doesn’t
mean that social-security benefits and
pensions, now costing £5O million
annually for a population of only
1,900,000, are going to be cut. Holland
and Co. are pledged to .continue heavy
spending, but they figure that they can do
some worth-while pruning in cost of gov-
ernment while broadening the basis of
prosperity to make the staggering tax bill
(now £133 million, or £7l a head of popu-
lation) more bearable. Maorilanders will
pay up with a better grace in a reasonably
free economy; they’ve had a glimpse of
Socialists’ costly State-paradise, and that’s
enough for them.
High Cost of "Labor."
Four years ago Mr. Chifley’s own Post-
war Reconstruction Department stressed
the inflationary evils to be avoided by the
Socialist “full-employment” scheme. In
his Government’s own White Paper on
the subject, published in 1945, occurs
this:
There will be a danger that, in pushing
total expenditure to the level necessary to
maintain full employment, we may from
time to time go too far. People would
then be trying to buy more goods and
services than available resources are capable
of producing when fully employed, so that
the Economy would be threatened with
the danger of inflation.
Avoidance of this threat depends on the
skill with which Governments can control
their expenditure policies.
The inflation is now here. Mr. Chifley,
the financial wizard, has not had the
skill to “control expenditure policy”;
the Chifley quid is now worth only about
half the Australian pound’s value when
he began his planning; and the dire re-
sults of Mr. Chifley’s “Golden Age” of
over-ample paper-money with insuf-
ficient goods has led to the predicament—
of which the Government was fully
warned in advance —in which increased
wages are but a sham, and the cost of
living under “Labor” has added grievously
to the worries and burdens of every
housewife.
This inflation, reflected in the soaring
prices of everything the housewife must
buy daily, is Mr. Chifley’s own work. This
is his gift to Australia, his political monu-
ment. With the warning of his own Gov-
ernment’s White Paper still in his ears,
he set out four years ago to peg wages
and prices. He knew the drill. Control
of both was essential on the course he
had elected to take —that of boosting
Government expenditure in order to
achieve “full employment,” and taxing
commercial industry unmercifully in
order to meet that Government expendi-
ture. To succeed, he had to clamp down
on increases of wages, profits and prices
alike. Then, yielding to union pressure,
he let the control over wages go ; yield-
ing to it again, the Federal Government
“intervened” in the 40-hour week case
and urged the Arbitration Court to reduce
the working week.
Thus the rot started. Inflation* already
exerting a pressure of its own through
blackmarket operations and by other
means, was given its opening. Of course
prices of everything rose when the
boosting of wage-claims was allowed.
Dr. Evatt’s “streamlined” conciliation
machinery, under a corps of new Com-
missioners, was established in order to
meet the clamor for higher wages with-
out delay. Inflation, not unemployment,
is now the unions’ most deadly peril.
That is what their own Government has
done for them.
The High Cost of Living is only an-
other aspect of the High Cost of
“Labor.”
Coal Transport Choked.
Reports that the N.S.W. railways are
unable to find enough trucks to move
the coal produced when miners are work-
ing a full week —the statement published
last week refers to opencut workings in
the western field —draws attention to one
detail in coal distribution which will soon
compel drastic reorganisation.
In an address before the Sydney branch
of the Australasian Institute of Mining
and Metallurgy 18 months ago, Mr. R. P.
Jack, the coal expert member of the Joint
Coal Board, declared that the railways’
capacity for shifting coal from Newcastle
to Sydney was “almost at saturation-
point,” and also that “coal-loading
facilities at Newcastle may be unable to
handle the additional coal that we plan
to ship.” The shortened working week,
he said, had aggravated the difficulty.
The defects as he listed them:
Modern and higher-capacity loading
machinery is necessary.
Railway freights are too high.
The railways of today cannot carry the
coal which expanding industries and ser-
vices around Sydney will demand in future.
The solution suggested was that the board
should develop known coal areas closer
to the markets and discover new ones.
That will obviously not be enough, and
appears to take little count of the need
for cheapening the cost of coal as well as
for producing adequate supplies. More-
over, the mass of readily-available coal
is in pillars in the Newcastle fields
—over 150 million tons of ,it. The
collier trade by sea offers the only hope
of lowering freight costs, and the proper
grading of coal and the regulation of its
distribution —so that gas coal is not
burned in powerhouses, for instance —are
essential if the excessive price of coal
today is ever to be reduced.
AU these considerations have been lost
to sight under the Communist control of
the industry, tolerated by a Government
which has allowed sufficient coal to be
mined to keep the nations on rationed
allowances from day to day—so much
and no more. It is high time that some
reorganisation such as Mr. Menzies pro-
poses were seriously undertaken, begin-
ning with the establishment of reserve
stocks so that reforms can be planned with
a chance of their getting somewhere.


[For election matter David Adams, Cecil
Mann, J. B. Blair and M. H. Ellis, all of 252
George-street, Sydney, are responsible.]
For your throat’s sake
CRAVENA
Always reliable
Obtainable in
10’s 6k 20’s
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR
BSOSH-'R
POLITICAL POINTS
With the election campaign in l its final
week the name Abraham Lincoln seems
to have been banished from A.L.P. plat-
forms, though Calwell, haranguing in
Sydney Domain on Sunday, “explained”
that in likening Ben to Abe “we mean he
is closely related to him in ideas and
ideals, if not by his sanguinity.” For-
tunately for Calwell no one asked him to
explain his explanation. The Hytten-
Menzies pool, which was to have been
“Labor’s” election-winner, is almost dried
up, Calwell essayed a quick dive into it,
and 2KY radio gave a brief glimpse of
an ill-assorted pair of swimmers, Evatt and
Ward, still floundering around in the mud.
For good measure Ward exhumed his
Brisbane Line. Other “Labor” candidates
are relying on the old standbys: “We gave
you full employment,” “Look what we’ve
done for the workers” and “Judge us on
our record.”
“Our record”? A salary grab of £5OO
extra a year ; a pension grab on the basis
of three-quid-a-week-gets-you-eight; a
Bank Grab, thwarted by High Court and
Privy Council decisions ; establishment of
a Government monopoly in television and
frequency-modulation; a Radio Control
Act which may yet lead to a broadcasting
monopoly; a Shipping Act which em-
powers the Government to squeeze out
private shipping lines; a free-pills-and
potions Act which the High Court decided
amounted to civil conscription of doctors ;
an unnecessary referendum on price-
control .and, in revenge for its rejection
by Ihe people, the premature withdrawal
of subsidies ; the handing-out of “plums”
to defeated party men; the surrender of
foreign policy to the Communists. There’s
more, but that should be enough to judge
any Government on.
Chifley’s final Sydney visit is being spent
not so much in fighting the main enemy as
in fighting former friends ; Lang and Fal-
stein. It’s many years now since Jack and
Ben were pals, but Maxie’s defection is
more recent. Lang has announced through
his “Century” that he has dedicated him-
self to saving Australia from Calwell; he
maintains that if the Chifley Government
is returned Arthur will be Prime Minister
within a year. The Big Fella hopes to
hold the balance of power and to use it to
see that no King Arthur reigns in Can-
berra. To what lofty cause Falstein is
dedicated is not clear, but whatever it is
Chifley is against it.
It was suggested here three weeks ago
that “Labor’s” campaign directors had
made a bad tactical error in arranging
for Ward to tour Queensland towards the
end of the campaign; he might lose
ground gained by his colleagues. There
was, of course, an alternative explanation,
viz., that “Labor” had written off Queens-
land anyway and wanted to get Eddie
away from, N.S. Wales at a vital stage of
the fight. The reason doesn’t matter
much now. What is wanted is an ex-
planation for the cancellation of the trip.
Eddie didn’t go to Queensland, and on
the day before he was scheduled to speak
in Cairns the A.L.P. campaign-director in
Queensland said “Mr. Ward won’t be able
to come due to circumstances about
which we know nothing.”
In the meantime Ward is stumping
Sydney electorates “challenging” the
private banks to allow an independent
auditor to examine their books to dis-
prove their statement that they are pour-
ing out money to defeat the Chifley Gov-
ernment. What is probably worrying
Eddie more than anything else is that no
one seems to think his accusations worth
the trouble of refuting.
Supported by Navy Minister Riordan,
Laracy, “Labor” candidate for Maranoa
(Q.), turned up late for a meeting at Roma
and blamed the state of the road from
Charleville. One of the locals inter-
jected: “Why don’t you give us back
some of our petrol tax and we’ll have
decent roads made for you?” That was
rather a curly one for a newcomer to
politics, so Laracy let it pass. In back-
country electorates the petrol tax could
easily lose the Government as many votes
as the main petrol issue.
Riordan’s contribution fo the Roma
meeting wasn’t exactly calculated to
restore confidence in his Government. He
told, the audience that “despite anything
Evatt, Ward or any other member of
Parliament had to say, nationalisation of
banking was still part of the A.L.P. plat-
form until it was removed at a triennial
conference.” Unburdening himself
further, he confided that
Labor politicians were in Parliament to
give force to directives issued by respon-
sible leaders of the trade-union movement.
The party, however, was a constitutional
one, and would do nothing that would
break any law of the land.
This last undertaking has also been given
by other “Labor” men during this cam-
paign, including the Prime Minister.
What sort of a pass has a political party
come to when it deems it necessary to
give an assurance that it will not break
the law?
After 14 years of Socialist Governments
in N.Z., and several years of active socia-
lisation of industries and sendees, when
(along with last Wednesday’s general
elections) a liquor referendum was held,
not more than one elector in eight voted
in favor of nationalisation of the liquor
industry. Looks as though New
Zealanders had had socialisation, even of
what Chifley would call monopoly
interests.
“Judge us on our record,” says Chifley.
His fellow-Socialist Peter Fraser made a
similar appeal to the people of New
Zealand —and they did.
The Graziers’ Federal Council of Aus-
tralia has found it necessary to nail a
Calwell canard, published in a pamphlet
called “Danger for Australia” by the
Minister himself. The extract:
Some people claim that racial equality
means that one should not recognise any
difference between the races. The Federal
Council of the Graziers’ Association, how-
ever, has no such naive belief. When it
comes to their purpose, they differentiate
strongly—in favor of Chinese!
Last year this association approached me
because they wanted Chinese cooks for
outback stations. I told them that they
could not have Chinese cooks, as that
would be against the policy of the country.
Instead of accepting that as an administra-
tive decision, they reported the matter to
their Federal Convention, which met on
July 1, 1948.
The denial:
This is utterly untrue, as the Graziers’
Federal Council has never approached Mr.
Calwell or his Government with a request
for the immigration of Chinese cooks.
A printed attack is deliberate, far
different from that of heated debate or
political speech.
According to a pamphlet issued by the
N. S. Wales Fabian Society, of which
McGirr’s Attorney-General Clarrie
Martin is president, the “Labor” party
should put forward a Socialist short-term
programme for the next five years. “A
depression will probably occur in Aus-
tralia within five years.” It urges a cam-
paign to educate the middle classes and
farmers “in the advantages of Socialism,’*
and considers that the “Labor” party
when facing the electors “should state
clearly and frankly that it wants the
additional legal powers in order to intro-
duce Socialism. It should refuse to
accept office unless they are granted.”
Honest advice, anyway, but Chifley and
Co. are not the kind to take it. Refuse
to accept office! The reason they are
trying to cover up their socialisation
objective is that they are afraid they
won’t have the option of refusing.
Fabian policy implies patience. The
policy of the Canberra Socialists is in
the hands of old men in a hurry and
young men in a daze.
•
“Labor” speakers doh’f quote Professor
Copland much nowadays, yet he has been
making some interesting observations
lately. This one, for instance, spoken in
the course of an address to the Victorian
Building Congress last month:
An unpleasant fact is that many houses
now being built involve costs that cannot
be met when prices and money incomes
recede from their present inflated levels. It
is one thing to maintain full employment,
but quite another to hold the price- and
income-level against a heavy fall in export
prices.
Doc. Evatt seems to disagree with the
last sentence. It appears to be his belief
that the problem the professor finds diffi-
cult is a simple one to Mr, Chifley. He
told an audience in his electorate that
the issue at the elections was whether
the people
“desired to give Mr. Chifley a further
mandate to maintain the full employment
and satisfactory living standards which now
exist.”
This disagreement between two eminent
authorities is perhaps not so very sur-
prising ; there is more than one school
of economics. According to evidence at
the New Guinea timber inquiry, not
disputed by Bert, Dr. Evatt was taught
the rudiments of the science by Jock
Garden. The professor got his grounding
at a more orthodox school
Just now a lot of eminent politicians
are threatened by a lot of imminent poli-
ticians.
Teamwork? On the last weekend before
polling-day a batch of homes in South
Perth were without water except what
they could carry in buckets and tins.
Reason: Members of the Water Supply
Union had exercised their democratic
right to refuse to repair a burst main in
overtime hours.
Ward was addressing a street-meeting
at Bondi. It was the same old Ward
speech with the same old gesticulations
except for one little difference unintended
by Eddie. The outflung arm and
extended index-finger with which he
emphasised his arguments pointed always
in the same direction —to a shop across
the street. Eddie didn’t notice the legend
on the shop, but some of his audience
did. It was “Tasman Dry Cleaners.”
It cost a couple of Footscray (Vic.)
greengrocers a total of £29 9s. in fines and
costs because they bought potatoes direct
from the grower and sold them to their
customers. It cost the grower £l2 4s. 6d.
in fines and costs for selling the spuds.
Action was brought by the Potato Market-
ing Board, which demands that all
potatoes must be sold to and bought from
it. Thus is the triumph of the bureaucrat
achieved and the housewife £Ui in her
place.
Any doubts the wheatgrowers may
have had that they are socialised servants
of Canberra have been dismissed by
Lemmon, Minister for Works and Hous-
ing. He told an election meeting in West
Australia that 79 p.c. of the growers had
voted for “Australia’s most advanced
form of Socialism —the Wheat Acquisi-
tion Scheme.” Whether they’d vote for it
again is another matter.
In one of his periodical attacks on th©
Press Chifley complained that the Sydney
papers were all agin him, but added that
two Melbourne papers published un-
biased election news. Last week Air-
Minister Drakeford repeated the Mel-
bourne piece, and so that there should be
no doubt as to which paper didn’t satisfy
him he said that in the “Sun-Pictorial”
there was “ten times the amount of pub-
licity given to the Liberal party as to the
Labor party.” This brought the “Sun” out
fighting, with an offer of £lOOO to Drake-
ford if he could prove his words, a
further £lOOO if he could show that it had
not given “Labor’s” case approximately
the same space as other Melbourne papers
and £lOO to charity if the Minister,
having examined the files, would publicly
apologise.
According to a Mr. J. Tanner, “leading
British trade-union official,” workers in
Britain, Australia and New Zealand sup-
port their Labor Governments because
their trade-unions help to shape Govern-
ment policy. Well, something slipped in
New Zealand just after Mr. Tanner spoke,
and the slip is very likely to repeat itself
in Australia and Britain. Can it be that
workers have got tired of trade-unions
shaping Government policy?
If the signs and portents can be
accepted as a guide, there’ll be far more
returning officers than returning poli-
ticians next Saturday.
Nowra (N.S.W.) is not in the good
books pf the McGirr Minister for No
Hospitals. Mr. Kelly has been asked to
give Nowra the means of getting a
hospital, but there’s nothing doing. Un-
like Bega, farther south, which stopped
work for a day as a sort of celebration of
the fact that it had no hospital, Nowra
has stuck up road-signs which read:
Drive Carefully.
You are now entering Nowra, the largest
country town in N.S.W. without a public
hospital. Death is so permanent.
Queensland Premier Hanlon, who went
to London to see about the price of export
sugar and look into the Blair Athol fiasco,
has had to tell Queensland that there “is
no possibility now of British capital de-
veloping Blair Athol coal resources.”
Cheer up, Ned —there might be a different
tune after next Saturday, if British capital
can feel that it won’t become the sport
of Communists in this country.
Calwell’s excuse for “Labors” re-
luctance to have anything to do with com-
pulsory training is that it would “shatter
the economy of Australia”; Ward’s
comment is that any form of military
service is degrading, though he doesn’t
say how he found it out. The bright pair
believe in all sorts of compulsions, but
consider the defence of the country should
be left to volunteers.
Amusing sidelight of the election cam-
paign has been the pained and shocked
attitude of “Labor” speakers towards
bank clerks. Because these men prefer a
private employer to the State and reject
Socialism many of them have been taking
an active part in the campaign—against
“Labor.” To the champions of “liberty,”
“Labor” brandy they are at the very least
traitors to the country—at the worst paid
hirelings of the Master Class.
Britain’s Socialists have been taking a
similar line against the reaction of the
steel industry to the Steel Nationalisation
Act. Apparently it is a crime even to
use constitutional methods to defend
yourself against socialisation.
Perhaps Maoriland’s Mr. Holland was
the man who invented the unemployment
pool. At any rate he has put two
Ministers and six other “Labor” members
out of their jobs.


"NOW—WHICH OF YOU SAID ‘WE’RE GOING TO PLUCK THE FOWL’?”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“B. A. Ker”; My evening paper seems
to have devoted its life to establishing
Miss Australias. Scarcely, it seems, has
one been sworn in—or whatever a Miss
Australia has done to her—than another
elimination contest is under way. At the
present rate the time is not far away when
the finger of scorn will carry a rider:
“What’s she got to stick her nose up
about —she hasn’t even been a Miss Aus-
tralia yet! ” But one bright aspect comes
from Queensland: the Bananalander’s
choice is a girl sft. 9in. I’ve never been
able to understand why the average tall
girl seems to be regarded by her sex as
some sort of physical freak. A tall, well-
built girl is more pleasing to my eye than
the lass whose physique would, if she
were a male, earn her the title of Tich or
Skeeter. Yet the tall girl almost invari-
ably tries to disguise her height by adopt-
ing a stoop—which does make her look
physically deformed—and how she
squirms when her diminutive sister crows
loudly about her own sawn-offedness.
Incidentally, the most polished exhibition
of word-duelling and honey-voiced,catti-
ness I’ve ever seen was staged by a pair
of female flyweights—and all because
somebody had expressed a doubt as to
which was the smaller.
* * * «
“Lawnstob”: Hobart’s Lud Mayor
Harris is up in arms at the ignorance of
one William Seagle, an American writer
who has just published Men of Law, in
which the Apple Island gets a mention.
“There are still primitive groups in remote
corners of the world,” he says, “who do
not possess even the rudimentary organs
of government, as for instance, Papuans
of New Guinea, Veddas of Ceylon, the
Punans of Borneo, or Tasmanians of Aus-
tralia.” As Tasmania has had respon-
sible government since 1856 this sounds
a bit hot, but perhaps Mr. Seagle was
indulging in a piece of social satire. The
Punans of Borneo, whom I knew, cer-
tainly did have a rudimentary form of
government; Tasmania only has “Labor.”
* * * *
“Zake”: Let the fat man beware! He
had his first qualms about it a few months
back when an overseas firm threatened
to market corsets for the containment of
his embonpoint. Now the blow has
fallen, for there are now obtainable belts,
presumably abdominal, which not only
are warranted to have the same effect
but also to give him a massage during his
perambulations. The possibility that he
will step out his usual 16 stone of bubbles
and return an emaciated wreck would
make any man flatly refuse to buy one,
for most fat men like being that way.
But unless he has the foresight to hack
the ad. religiously out of every paper
he brings into the house he is a cert, to be
submitting shortly to having wrapped
around him daily the one his wife has
bought him. It could be, of course, that
there are men who would prefer one as a
Christmas present to a bottle of Scotch
or a dozen golf-balls ; after all, the world
is not without its freaks.
* * * ♦
“Also Ran”: I have always thought
that the plural of the word “pound” was
“pounds,” but I seem constantly to be
meeting people who omit the “s.” The
other day when a woman told me she had
paid seven pound for her hat 1 was
triply surprised— at the hat, the price and
the plural. Then I listened to the Prime
Minister’s policy speech, and found that
she was in distinguished company.
Chif.’s speech was studded with forty-
four million pound and twenty-three
million pound and similar figures. Maybe
he meant to convey, subtly, that two of
those pound are only worth one of the
pounds we used to know.
* * * *
“Craiser”: A New Australian who in-
advertently tendered to a Melbourne
Hebe a penny in mistake for a florin got
“Well, where's the serviettes?”
a retort which must have tested his know-
ledge of the English language. Pushing it
back with a scornful snort, she said: “Bit
sunburnt, isn’t it?”
* * * *
“Plop”: Much publicity has been given
to the habit of Sydney’s Transport Com-
missioner of getting up at daybreak and
going forth, on his own or with a squad
of traffic men, to study bottlenecks on
the tramway system and work out plans
to ease them. It was therefore not sur-
prising that when from a city-bound tram
climbing up towards King’s Cross we saw
ahead, resting his elbows on a tram-stop
post with his hands cupped under his
chin, a well-dressed man with tired eyes
looking down the line and about him
half a dozen policemen, the word went
round that there stood Mr. Winsor. We
were wrong. The Black Maria showed
up as we moved on and the man was
bundled into it.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Eight years ago this morn-
ing I was sitting near the radio-set lacing
my shoes, thinking about the day’s work
and the friend I intended to take to lunch
that day. Through my thoughts I heard
an announcer say “....Japanese sea-
borne aircraft raided Pearl Harbor this
morning and inflicted damage and casual-
ties. President Roosevelt....” but it
didn’t register for the moment. I was
half-way to the kitchen when it did and
I leapt back and turned up the volume
on the set, but I had missed it. Ate
breakfast in a ferment and hastened to
town, where the news was confirmed.
My friend telephoned and cancelled the
lunch appointment, with apologies. Weil,
a lot of history was enacted in the next
few years. I lost track of my friend,
though I heard vague reports of him in
the R.A.A.F. in various places from
India to New Zealand. The other
day I ran into him. He had never
been away from his job. Neither of us
quite knew why we hadn’t met in the
meantime, though his office is just one
block away from mine. It’s the sort
of thing that can occur m a big city.
Anyhow, we’re having lunch today.
* * • * *
“Blue P.”: I suppose anything is pos-
sible, especially when one considers some
of the types living here now, but it
simply never occurred to me before that
Australia was once solely inhabited by
ornithodelphians, didelphians and a few
scattered monodelphians. Just before
anyone jumps to the conclusion that these
creatures had any connection with the
Delphic Oracle of the Greeks, the
Christadelphians or the State capital of
Pennsylvania (U.S.A.), let me add that I
found them in a 30-year-old paper pre-
pared by Professor Wood Jones for the
Royal Society of South Australia in which
he ridiculed the notion that the dingo was
indigenous to this continent. There are
still dingoes about, and my thought was
if they could survive so could the some-
thing-delphians, so I checked up on the
things to see whether a pearifle or
arsenate-of-lead baits would be any help
against them. The second and third are,
or were, merely native animals, the differ-
ence being in their reproductive organs.
Both Webster and the 0.E.D., however,
are silent on the first, though it appears
to be the only survivor of that ancient
period, for what else could the bird-like
oracle so accurately depicted by Frith
in “Sydney Morning Herald” be but an
ornithodelphian (“pluck the fowl”—
“curse the Press”)?
“Pitt St.”: These Yanks ought to be
stopped. When a couple went to collect
a cheque in Albany (N.Y.) they were told
they couldn’t until they paid a debt. They
tried to pawn rings and things, but the
pawnbroker wouldn’t accept them. Then
he offered to accept the husband as
security, the woman pawned him, paid
the debt, got the cheque and redeemed
the security. But suppose she hadn’t
come back? Would the pawnbroker
have fed him until the time expired and
then listed him in a sale of unredeemed
pledges? Why, some vinegary woman
might have got him for $1.23 and forced
him into a life of shame. No man is safe
while such things are allowed.
* * * *
“Spike”; Mr. Churchill, who is said to
havcscribbled “Never have so many.....”
with a well-chewed pencil stub, has appar-
ently moved up a bit. It is reported that
the pen which wrote Their Finest Hour
is now on tour in America. Mr. Churchill
originally presented it to the Y.M.C.A.,
and while 150 guineas is a lot for a stock-
model fountain pen, the Miles Martin
Company who made it have paid the
Wyem that sum to get it back, intending
to use it through the U.S. to win dollars
and advertise the brand. The pen will
travel well, and on the return journey
(Cunard White Star Line) will dwell in a
special showcase. After that it does a trip
to a trade exhibition in Switzerland.
* * * *
“Niloc”: The north-eastern region of
the British railways is broadening its out-
look. Dependent on the traveller’s ability
to cough up fourpence, and provided such
items emit no suspicious ticking sounds,
he may now deposit with his hat and
coat in the firm’s cloakrooms any of the
following:
Base viols, bath-chairs, bicycles (ordinary),
cash-registers, hand-carts, harps, ice-cream
carts, mail-carts (not folded), organs and
pianos (street), scissors-grinders’ machines,
sidecars, sewing machines (treadle), and
violoncellos.
“Chevroford”: “Old Bricky” (B.
30/11/ ’49) says that “Old Carp’s” yam
about building a sheet of glass across
the flue is a traditional joke in the build-
ing trade and he doubts if it was ever
more than that. I would doubt it, too,
except that the trick was once played
on me. I was having a house built in
a Sydney suburb and was survey-
ing work in progress when a brickie on
the chimney shouted: “You know,
mister, these things never draw well unless
they’re baptised.” It was a redhot day
and I should have taken the hint, but
I didn’t. A couple of months later a
rather shamefaced bricklayer* fetched by
a furious contractor, who had been sent
for by an equally indignant householder,
half-choked with smoke along with the
rest of his family, climbed on the roof
and with a stick punctured the pane of
glass he had inserted in the smokestack.
He got his belated bottle.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: That good King’s
Cross term “throwing a party” seems to
have been justified by one such event.
Some details came out in a sub-
sequent action for insulting language
and assault. On the day after the party,
it seems, two of the guests had been fined
for drunkenness at Paddington, one for
exceeding the speed-limit and driving
whilst under the influence at Kogarah;
and three had got into trouble for a
early-morning street brawl at North
Sydney. I don’t know who threw the
party, but it was certainly far-flung.
* * * *
“K.H.H.”; Lately saw an unusual
heirloom —a 42ft. roll of drawings made
by a homicidal maniac, which came into
the possession of James Watson, one-time
head attendant of Adelaide Mental
Asylum, 60-odd years ago, and is now
held by his family. The drawings are
all of bridges, including designs for
Sydney Harbor and Port Phillip. There
is one. ingenious design for a tunnel con-
necting England and France. Another
heralds the bridges now across the Port
River at Port Adelaide. The drawings
were made by a George Sutcliffe, an
Englishman transported to Australia in
the 1850’s for murder. One day observed
by Watson looking at pictures of bridges
in a copy of a London illustrated
magazine, Sutcliffe claimed he could
design better. He was provided with
pencils and paper, and, for the next seven
years, spent his solitary confinement mak-
ing his childish yet interesting designs,
pasting the sheets together with the juice
of potato-peelings given to him by a crony
in the asylum kitchen.
* * ♦ *
“Ague”: Tell “Hyanlo” (B. 19/10/’49)
that over here in the wild, wild west the
P.M.G. Department still uses telegram
envelopes with the slogan: “Idle talk can
sink ships—think twice before you say
it!” Let us hope that the telegram-boy
who delivered his wire and insisted upon
a reply because of the slogan written on
the envelope—“A reply-paid wire is a
courteous means of securing a safe reply”
—never comes to W.A. If he should, the
slightest mention of a ship Will no doubt
send him hurrying for the police.
* * * ♦
“Stefan Smiteron”: At our works we
maintain full production as a matter of
course, and we curse when shortage of
coal makes us short in the pay-envelope ;
but nobody ever shows an inclination to
praise us on that account. Because the
miners managed for a period to maintain
something approaching full production
the Coal Board thought it necessary to
pat them on the back. Somehow it re-
minds me of the spoilt kid down our
street whose mother waxes enthusiastic
about the good boy he is because he
hasn’t stolen anything, broken any
windows or assaulted smaller kids for a
whole week.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Quack”: The death of Lucy Gullett,
aged 73, after a most useful life, which
included the creation of Rachel Forster
Hospital, recalls the bitterness of the fight
the pioneer woman doctor had to
encounter. At first the University of
Sydney refused to admit women medical
students ; the excuse was that there were
so few women wanting to become doctors
that it would be impossible to open the
separate course for women which would
be necessary, it being unthinkable that
males and females should study intimate
medical subjects together. Dr. Mary
Booth went to Scotland for her degree.
When the Sydney University did agree to
admit women the male students indulged
in outbursts of larrikinism which justified
Grace Boelke in her early retort to a prof,
who took the masculine view. ‘‘The
medical school is no place for ladies,” the
prof, asserted. “What? Are there no
gentlemen there?” asked the lady who
became Dr. Grace sweetly*
WHAT’S IN A NAME?
‘Mr. Chifley said that Labor policy was in the
spirit of Christianity; and deprecated the way in
which his colleagues, with kindly intention, some-
times referred to him.”
Said Ben to Bert, “I’m in a jam;
1 woke up wondering who I am.”
Said Bert to Ben, “Have you been drinkoln?
Haven’t I told you you’re Abe Lincoln?”
“1 know you’ve thought that all along,”
Said Ben, “which proves it must be wrong.”
Said Bert, “Well, take your other stooges—
Here’s Cally swearing you’re Will Rogers.”
Said Ben, “Yes, that’s a closer guess,
But who’d believe what Cally says?
ISow, recently, for all 19 hear it,
I spoke of Labor’s Christian spirit:
How strange if, being Labor’s boss,
I’m what I’ve often thought I was!”
“On that,” said Bert, “we’d both agree,
But some might call it blasphemy;
You know, 1 often wonder if
I should have left you just plain Chif”
I
j “Why, Bert!” said Ben. “For shame! For
i shame!
; Don’t mention that distressing name,
1 So much reviled, so loudly hissed —
They tell me he’s a Socialist
Who leads a gang of Wards and Callys
To beat-up strangers in back alleys,
Who waylays bankers for their roll
And throws the workers on the dole,
Who pushes up the price of food
And smirks at coppers who intrude,
His dreaded toe-cap idly scuffing:
‘Ya can’t touch me! 1 ain’t done miffing I ’
, Call me whatever suits your whim,
But never, never call me him!”
“All right, all right,” said Bert. “I’m through!—
You’re someone, but I don’t know who.”
Said Ben, “If you’d been in your senses,
You would have told them I was Menzies.”
“By Heaven!” said Bert. “An inspiration!
I’ll broadcast that throughout the nation —
We’ll socialise the Liberal party,
And you’ll be Bob and I’ll be Artie!”
“Well, now we’ve settled that,” said Ben,
“1 feel that on December Ten
We’ll probably go in again.”
RONALD McCUAIG.
(252 George-strqet, Sydney.)


“Bo”: That combination of bubbling
enthusiasm and bewildering speed which
has been so marked a feature of the wage-
plugs’ efforts since our Abe Lincoln and
Jimmy McGirr promised that this would
directly stem from the 40-hour week has
not only resulted in houses being rushed
up in 21 months whereas under the bad
old days of exploitation by the capitalistic
octopus the period of construction
dragged on for sometimes as long as 13
weeks. To get the real supersonic effect
under Socialism one must follow the
progress of a major public-works job.
One of the finest examples of this is the
new bridge that will replace the old Iron
Cove structure which spans Sydney’s
Parramatta River, and which at present
allows two big trucks to dash past each
other in the carefree knowledge that there
will be easily five inches clearance. The
first of the concrete pylons appeared,
above the surface of the river when my
youngest was at that stage when he poked
his tongue out at the small pigtailed
females of his school-class and reckoned
all such creatures were “nuts.” He now
wields a cunning razor and tosses around
hints about learning to drive the car.
The concrete pylons, from what one can
gauge as one passes, will be ready in a
few short years, and it will then be only
a matter of waiting until we are able to
import some steel from the rebuilt-from-
the-ashes factories of our ex-enemies.
The young fellow might live long enough
to drive his own car over the new bridge.
To ensure that I’ll bounce over the ruts
between the tram-tracks of the old bridge
without getting a floating liver while driv-
ing over it for the last 10 years of the
car’s life. I’m getting new shock-absorbers.
* * * *
“Col M.”: A nurse on night-duty in
a small private maternity hospital was,
with one offsider, keeping an eye on two
cases just about ready for the doctor,
investigating suspicious snufflings in the
glass-fronted room where they kept the
babies, admitting one new customer, and
seeing that all was well with a couple of
other ladies. Accordingly, when she
hurried down the stairs to answer the
phone and found that for the fifth time
that night it was an inquiry about Mrs.
Blank, not expected to do anything spec-
tacular until morning, the nurse drew
back her head and let fly. She put her
soul into it, spoke of her likeness at that
time to a one-armed paper-hanger, spoke
of the hardships of a nurse’s way of
life, and dwelt a little on what she thought
of people who gummed up the single
phone-fine the hospital possessed with
inane inquiries. She was about to hang
up with considerable force when an awed
voice whimpered at the other end: “But
this is the first time I’ve rung. I’m her
husband.”
* * * *
“Wusslean”: A scribe who airs his
private grouches in a Melbourne daily
let himself go on what he described as
“the wasteful sprawl of Melbourne,”
complaining that
good countryside is being ruined by mean
little villas far from anywhere, while sites
ideal for vertical construction remain vacant
or wastefully and gloomily occupied by
frowsy two-storey boarding-houses....
Some of the several hundred thousand
garden-coolies of Melbourne would surely
nowadays prefer flats in town to being
driven out to what was dairying country —
and is now the outer edge of the distant
bulge.
Well, now, what do you think of that,
you garden coolies who potter around
your mean little villas at weekends?
Don’t you realise that you and your
family would be better off in a third-floor
flat right in the metropolis, with no
pollen-laden air to give you hay-fever, no
garden to slave in, no private lawns for
the kids to play on, but with plenty of
exercise running up and down the stairs.
“Hello, Pop—Wed like that shilling you cut Mary off with .”
and the joyous clangor of other people’s
brats and radios? Don’t you see how
wrong it is to insist upon living in com-
fort and privacy, counting such privileges
well worth the time lost in travelling to
and from work, when you could huddle
up together in “vertical constructions
close to the big city’s heart?
* * * *
“A.W.”: Destruction of old docu-
ments (B. 2/11 /’49)? The 16th-century
antiquary, John Bale, referring to the
national loss caused by Henry VIIFs raids
upon the monasteries, says, “Those who
purchased the monasteries reserved the
books, some to scour their candlesticks,
some to rub their boots, some they sold
to the grocers and soapsellers, and some
they sent overseas to the bookbinders,
not in small numbers, but at times whole
ships full, to the wondering of foreign
nations.” How much of our older
national literature thus perished?
* * * *
“8.A.K.”; Unless those Gyppos were
building their igloo-shaped concrete air-
raid shelters before 1942 (B. 15/11/’49),
Australia beat ’em to the idea. Seven or
eight of the type were constructed in the
grounds of Sydney Tech, soon after the
Japs entered the war. Fifteen or
20ft. in diameter and about 10ft. in height,
they were built on removable wooden
forming. Of course, the shelters were
“Any Press photographers down there yet , firema n?”
never really tested, but having assisted in
their demolition I can vouch for their
strength, yet a migrant who was in the
thick of the bombing in Coventry was
not impressed when I spoke of them.
He had more faith in the rectangular
type. These, too, were built here —in
concrete and brick-and-concrete. The
walls were built up off a concrete floor
which stood on another concrete floor, a
layer of tarred building-paper keeping the
two floors apart. Blast, it was contended,
would slide the whole structure bodily,
whereas a rigid construction, no matter
how strong, could not withstand the
terrific force of rushing /air caused by a
heavy bomb. My informant vowed that
he had seen an immense rectangular
shelter moved 4ft. along its base.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: My meed of praise for
the P.M.G. (B. 23/11/ ’49). From Badu
Island, 40-odd miles from Thursday
Island, I sent at 9.30 a.m. by Binghi-
manned cutter a telegram for transmis-
sion from T.I. to Brisbane. By a fortui-
tous combination of wind and tide the
craft made in four hours what is some-
times a two days’ journey. Just before
midnight a spray-soaked native skipper
handed me the wired reply from Brisbane.
To permit this an anonymous T.I. postal
official, evidently motivated by the life-
and-death purport of the message, had, by
liaison with the Native Affairs Depart-
ment, located a Badu-bound cutter.
* * * *
“Chat”: Overheard while booking
tickets for “Macbeth”: “To look at this
queue you’d think it was something good
they was playing and not just Shak-
speare.’*’
* * * *
“Ceg”: Some of the old goldmining
towns are considering ways of celebrating
the centenary of the discovery of gold
in Victoria. Doubtless Dunolly will put
on some sort of a show, as it was near
there that the largest nugget ever found
was unearthed. Road-travellers between
that town and Bealiba pass through what
is left of Moliagul, and a short distance
off the road is a monument marking the
spot where, in 1869, a miner drove his
pick into the Welcome Stranger nugget,
weighing 22840 z. He and his party had,
up till then, not had much luck, and camp
was being pitched for the night. The pick
was carelessly driven into the ground
alongside an ironbark-tree and struck the
mass quite close to the surface. The
nugget, which was chopped in two by the
Dunolly blacksmith to facilitate weighing,
was sold to the old Bank of Victoria. The
obelisk marking the spot has lettering on
it so weatherbeaten that it is almost im-
possible to decipher. Although the forest
is now healing the scars of the mining
days it is still quite evident that every
inch of the surrounding ground was
turned over.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Taswegian”: Some New Australians
pick up our habits more quickly than
others—the one I saw at an industrial
plant in the Speck, for example. He was
supposed to be on the pick-and-shovel,
but was sitting against a wall in the sun
for a long time, then strolling round
watching others work. One worker yelled
to him “Pick too heavy, mate?” The
answer came pat, “No —I too tired.”
* * ♦ ♦
“C.H.R.”; Appropriate names (B.
16/11/’49)? In a Brisbane suburb years
ago there was an A. Butcher, butcher.
His motto puzzles me still, “Live and
Let Live.” I’m still wondering what the
livestock furnishing his meat thought of
it.
* * ♦ *
“Milton” : Queensland customers of
newspaper se 1 f-service stands (B.
9/11/ ’49) must be more honest than their
Victorian counterparts. Similar devices
have been erected in Melbourne suburbs
at the request of the dailies, and
my newsagent tells me that his daily
takings have never even been square, let
alone over. If his hearty cursing as he
tramps four or five times daily to and
from the contrivances for a net result of
about two bob weekly comes to the ears
of the newspaper barons the scheme will
soon be dropped.
“Bethune”: Sydney’s newspaper price-
war is apparently worrying one agent.
At his self-serve stand in my suburb he
has chalked on the footpath alongside
the papers: “ ‘Herald’ 2d., ‘Telegraph’ 3d.
Please note. Thank You.”
* * * *
“Doynest”; Press-photographs (B.
16/11/’49)? When a celebrated negro
trumpeter gave a concert in Melbourne
with the support of a jazz band, a lass
persuaded her parents to go along to
avoid wasting tickets she had bought but
couldn’t use herself. They sat out the
programme of syncopated jungle-noises
with commendable fortitude, though be-
wildered by the uninhibited enthusiasm of
the ’teenagers who made up most of the
audience. During the interval, as they
sat gloomily together, she knitting and he
impatiently tapping his foot on the floor
and wishing the whole rowdy business
was over, a cameraman came down the
aisle photographing groups in the audi-
ence. Next morning the pair were
astonished to find themselves in the
picture pages described as “old folk who
enjoyed it all just as much as thß young-
sters.” The caption drew attention to
father “happily beating time with his
foot.”
* * * *
“Melbn”: An undertaker was explain-
ing to the Bench in the County Court in
Melbourne the character of his business.
“There are good prospects in it,” he said.
“If you are honest and fair, it is only
natural that people keep coming back to
you.”
* * * *
“S.M.”: During a recent storm in
Sydney a clergyman who is a strong
supporter of temperance found a beer-
bottle label neatly pasted on the outside
of his front window. At first he sus-
pected practical jokers, but as the window
.was high up out of reach he realised that
the wind had whisked the label from the
gutter and slapped it on the wet glass.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Gentlemen of chance
in our Pacific-war unit had more stream-
lined entertainment than the hermit-
crab racing carnivals. Sprints were
provided by cockroaches, whilst large
beetles yoked to matchboxes carry-
ing a smaller species furnished a sequence
of trotting events. Main attractions, how-
ever, were the hurdles, in which the
'chasers were specially selected specimens
of the “jumper” variety, which, when
activated, would execute a parabola with
a chord of some feet. Length of the
chord decided the winner. Of course,
sharp practice crept in despite the vigi-
lance of the stewards, who were quick to
detect such obvious devices as chewing-
gum stuck to the performer’s under-
carriage, but were baffled by more
Machiavellian strategy, A great ramp was
worked with “Tojo,” who was the
mightiest leaper of them all, though sub-
ject to disconcerting reversals of form,
which his owner, the R.A.P. corporal,
alone seemed able to anticipate. This
racket was broken when an incensed
punter noticed that Tojo’s performances
were determined according to the shape
of the medicine phial in which he was
brought to the track. The game broke up
when the C.S.M., who had amassed a
collective indebtedness equivalent to
several years’ pay, welshed by being
evacuated with cerebral malaria and being
graded to a base job.
THE TOUCH OF GENIUS.
“The Communist manager of a steel-factory in
♦he German Eastern Zone which is now producing
weapons for the Red German Army being created by
i former Prussian officer, Wilhelm Zaisser, has bee
eiven police rank as Criminalrat (roughly equivalent
to police-inspector).” — “S. M. Herald.”
“What’s in a name?” the lovely Juliet asked,
Addressing night—the friendly night that masked
Her Romeo from the ruthless enemies who
Without compunction would have run him
through. ,
“What’s Montague? It is nor hand nor loot
That was the argument the lady put,
Inferring that, when all is said and done,
A monicker is no criterion
Of worth or otherwise. An observation
Which, in the main, bespeaks some penetration.
And so it is with titles. Who’d see aught
In one whose carpet-knighthood had been bought
By weighing-in to party funds a wad
He’d made through big-time betting on the nod
Or war-time profiteering, to compare
With “parfait gentil knights” of old who’d dare
The perils of the swiftly-charging lance
For sometimes nothing but'a lady’s glance,
Or who for gallantry had won the handle
While snuffing out a worthy foeman’s candle?
Though for the fitting title we’ve a knack
Our language sometimes has to take a crack.
“Prime Minister,” they dub him. Yet in time
He may be deemed as anything but prime.
“Controllers,” too, we call some bureaucrats
Who couldn’t ev’n control a brace of brats;
And some Director-Generals couldn’t direct
One to the nearest pub. So, in effect,
In far too great a number of these cases
The title has no aptness as a basis.
To get that special quality in this field
Go to the Hun! Could any language yield
So rich a treasure to describe so pat
A Commo high-up as a Criminalrat!
Nothing so perfect’s been before devised,
Or, if it has, I’ll greatly be surprised.
Criminalrat I Just roll it round your tongue!
It’s something that a poet might have sung.
Before such coining genius we’ve a bare head.
You’ve really got to hand it to the Squarehead!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“C.E.”; With Aunt Mary on a visit
from the city there hadn’t been much
work done in the kitchen, and Mum sud-
denly woke up that the old bloke was
due in for dinner. “Oh, I haven’t a
thing cooked,” she gasped, “and Dad’ll
be mad at me if there isn’t a decent meal.”
“Then set up the table so smart he won’t
notice the shortage,” advised Aunt Mary.
“It’s a good trick. I’ve done it before;
and it works. Just give him that cold
meat.” “But he doesn’t like cold meat
much,” Mum wailed. “He won’t even
notice, I tell you,” explained the visitor.
“Polish up the silver, put a few tumblers
around, and add a big vase of flowers.
Here, I’ll go and find some.” Soon Dad
came in. He dropped into his place, and
for a moment appeared to see nothing
unusual; then just as Mum shoved the
cold meat before him his eyes lit on the
jar of flowers. He stared, and his mouth
opened like a hooked fish. “Who —who
put them there?” he managed presently.
“I did,” announced Aunt Mary proudly.
“Eat your dinner. Pretty, aren’t they?”
“Can’t women think of anything more
important than eatin’, when a man’s got
that terrible thing come up in his pad-
dick? I’d know it anywhere, I tell y’.
It’s Paterson’s Curse!”
* * * ♦
“Sackville”: No matter how comfort-
able a working-boot is it must eventually
reach the stage where the sole begins to
laugh and show its steely teeth; then
the trotter-case gets so darned uncom-
fortable its wearer is glad to throw it
away. An old coat, too, ceases to have
any nostalgic ties when the sleeves develop
blind alleys that trap groping hands, and
the pockets break through, making it
necessary for a fellow to chase his
makings round and round the lining.
But the old working-hat is different; a
hole may develop and enlarge where the
dents meet in the front, the brim may
acquire an up-and-down wave effect, the
band may fret away to a tattered frill,
yet it will still be comfortable and there-
fore quite worthy to retain its position.
His hat, moreover, is the only article of
a man’s apparel which reflects his per-
sonality. Watch the array of millinery
hung on “Paddy’s hook” —the verandah-
floor—when the boys march in for lunch.
Although you’ve never consciously noted
anybody’s head-gear, you could place any
one of those battered lumps of felt on
the head of its rightful owner —the hats
look like ’em! A holey, greasy, mis-
shapen, thoroughly disreputable collec-
tion, yet their owners see nothing wrong
with ’em ; and they won’t while the sweat-
band remains firmly attached. When it
becomes loose the cady is doomed No-
thing is so completely infuriating as a
fat that catches every breeze and re-
peatedly flies back from its sweat-band
like the lid of a jam-tin. My old six-
and-seven-eighths has reached that stage.
Its next life-cycle will be at the other
end —as inner-soles for the number nines.
* ♦ * *
“Mat’s Mate”: I never think of
Christmas but I recall the time Mat wired
to me from Dimboola (Vic,); “Come at
once good fencing contract waiting you.”
I chucked the job I had in Barnawartha,
jumped a train to Seymour, got a lift
across to Kyneton, jumped more rattlers
through Maryborough and Ararat and
hit Dimboola in the afternoon of
Christmas Eve. No Mat! Not in any of
the pubs, nor hanging round the streets,
no barber knew him, the perch in the
Wimmera hadn’t seen his shadow. I
poked about, having 12s. Bd. in my kick
and reluctant to spend it riotously until I
discovered him. To put in the time I
followed a herd of kids and parents into
a store where a'Santa Claus was taking
zacs from kids and adults and handing
them small parcels in return. Seeing it
was expected of me I fished out a zac
and got a small parcel. I got out of there,
was about to give the parcel to a small
boy, but opened it instead. It contained
a match-box and inside that a note, “I
cut out here at four o’clock. Go and line
"And while you're sitting there doing nothing you might as Well
darn a few socks."
“Wh-whered y’ get ’em?” “Just over
the little bank below the house. Here,
have some bread.” She nodded
triumphantly at Mum, and pointed to
Dad’s plate. “Is—is there any more?”
Dad broke in. “More bread?” “No, no.
More o’ them flower things, woman,” he
bawled. “More o’ them there.” “Oh, yes,
plenty,” Aunt assured him. “Now will
you have some tea?” “Eh? Tea? Good
gosh,” he exploded, banging the table,
up four pints at the pub on this side and
wait. The job’s worth fifty-bob and by
the Lord Harry it’s worth it.” I had found
my mate.
* * * *
“E.”: The woolly was wrinkles from
nose to tail, the fleece hard, yellow,
matted and full of sand and burr. He
had been in the catching-pen quite a time
Slowly the pen emptied till the bad sheep
was the only one left, the ringer getting
the second-last catch. Bob pulled out his
machine, glanced in the pen, and dropped
on one knee to investigate a suddenly-
recalled fault in his handpiece. Further
along, gates banged on empty pens, a yell
or two heralded the cut-out, and a couple
of shearers trotted along to help finish the
strays. The first bloke looked at the
cobbler and remembered he was a sick
man. The second got' into the pen, and
was taken with a thirst that sent him
“ We'd better go. I think it'll rain—the ants are creeping up my leg."
scuttling hurriedly to the waterbag.
“Awright, awright, I’ll do the thing
meself,” snorted the ringer. “Cripes, I
always get ’em.” Ten minutes later he
had the belly off. He struggled, pushed
and grunted, changed his cutter, changed
his comb and eventually got the fleece off.
Then as he turned the sheep towards the
chute he slipped, there was a moment of
awkward floundering, and the jumbuck's
jugular got mixed with the machine. Bob
jumped in and dragged the sheep away.
“He’s done, awright,” he remarked. “Bad
luck, just after y’d got him shore.”
“Proves it was an accident,” nodded the
ringer. “Dunno why I always got to get
the bad’ns. Cripes, he jvas tough.
Wouldn’t shear the thing again at any
price.” “Funny, that,” persisted Bob.
“Why didn’t y’ pull your machine out
soon as y’d” “Aw, shut up, y’ silly
goat,” scowled the ringer. “Don’t y’ know
I signed on t’ come back next year?”
♦ * * *
“Plip”: Wally sat on the steps outside
the hut peeling an orange with his pen-
knife ; the pup was spinning around in
the yard worrying the life out of an ant
going home with a great crumb on its
back. “Look here,” said Wal. “You've
got to give him a name. You’ve got to be
able to call a dog something. Three
months old and you ain’t christened him.”
There was a grunt from Wal’s partner
stretched out on the verandah-seat;
then, “Well, it’s hard to think of a name
for a dog like him. You’ve got to wait
till he shows something that suggests a
good one. A man’s got to think about
it.” Wally said nothing, but silently
reached forward and picked up the pup,
and with a neat flick of his knife he
docked the youngster’s tail. “There you
are,” said Wal. “You can call him
‘Stumpy’—needed doin’, anyway.”
* * * »
“W. Court”: Having a curtain-ring or
a small loop of wire on your line is
handy when fishing in snaggy waters. If
the usual procedure of pulling the line
taut and then letting it go slack fails to
release the hook, tie a small stone or
lump of lead to the ring, and hold the
end of the line up s.o that the ring slides
down to the hook. The weight of the
stone should cause the hook to come loose
from the snag. If the snag is close in,
holding the line taut with one hand while
thrusting hard against the line just above
the submerged snag with a long forked-
stick rarely fails to work.
* * * ♦
“Tarbush”: The mouse flickered out
from the old packing-case by the tele-
phone. It whisked like a blown brown
leaf across the earth floor of the hut,
propping, starting, flicking aside, until it
reached the tin wash-basin on the hearth.
The basin, tilted up with its leaky side
on an old boot, held a pint or so of
soapy water. The mouse first found a
couple of spilled drops not quite absorbed
by the clay floor. It crouched over the
moisture, big ears twitching, jet-bead eyes
popping, a little brown toy with abs
white sticks below instead of feet,
fancied noise, and it was half-way acro J~
the floor. But the call of the water w
too strong. It whisked back, and tni
time, exploring, found its way up ont
the rim. Then it was still, drinking
an age-long period of inaction for a
mouse. Presently it looked up,
moustached with suds, and hopped back
to the floor. After a quick sniff round
it flicked up on the tin for another long
draw. Nine times in perhaps as many
minutes the tiny aquamaniac drank long
and deep from that basin, its little body
visibly bloated. Then a creak of the
hut door in a hot puff of wind sent it
flying for sanctuary, and left me wonder-
ing just how many weeks —just what a
big fraction of the mouse’s tiny life —
had passed since it last saw free water.
* * * *
“Smoko”: Discussing a recent case in
which horse, owner and trainer got life-
disqualification for a “rung-in” at a
country race-meeting, our district paper
reported that identification was revealed
through the breeding. “Sire and dam were
both chestnut, therefore the progeny must
be chestnut.” That rule is certainly not
infallible. I have a brown foal to a chest-
nut sire and dam.
* * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: The competitor in the
quiz session was stumped by the ques-
tion, but it turned my memory back more
than a few cogs: I had arranged to do
some repairs to a house owned by the
local naturalist. The business over, he
showed me around his menagerie We
were walking up the path when he ex-
claimed sharply; “Look out! You’ll
step on Bluey! ” As a kid I could never
turn catherine-wheels, but I nearly
executed a perfect double one then in
endeavoring to avoid stepping on the
fattest bluetongue I’ve ever seen. My
guide proudly presented a huge gounna
in a wired enclosure, and didn’t seem to
notice the smell of the hideous creature.
Six feet of caged black snake was very
obviously another of his most valued
treasures. There were two diamond
snakes and a carpet in a wire-meshed
box; he insisted on releasing them to
show how tame they were. And to clinch
the point he flopped one of the clammy
brutes on my quivering neck. Like a man
awake after a terrifying nightmare I at
last reached the sanctuary of the back
verandah once more. “Before you go I
must show you what my brother sent
from West Aus.,” said my tormentor.
“Came by the mail this morning—a
Mountain Devil.” He raced inside and,
returning with a cigar-box, dived a skinny
hand inside. Obviously stuffed, the little
lizard was an odd mixture of beauty and
repellency: the subdued red colorings on
its back adding to the former, and the
horns on its head contributing to the
latter. “Have a close look,” the proud
possessor invited. He placed the reptile
in my hand. And that was when the
apparently stuffed creature raised its ugly
head. I don’t know whose howl was the
more shocked —mine as I dropped the
little horror, or its owner's when he saw
the apple of his eye being dropped. Oh,
the quiz question? No; the answer
wasn’t correct, either. The Postmaster-
General merely thinks queen-bees are the
only live things that may be sent by post.
THE WESTERN SQUATTERS.
Here in the West lie our limitless acres.
Blue-grass and barley-grass, saltbush and sand;
Here were our grandsires the early road-breakers
And here to this day we are lords of the land.
The eves that bedim and the dawns that
bedizen,
The scrubs and the sandhills, the creeks and
the bends,
The plains stretching out to the distant horizon —
All is our kingdom and all are our friends.
Here shines the sun on our boundary fences,
Turning to silver the shimmering wire
That circles our profits, our cares and expenses,
Our long fight with drought and with flooding
and fire.
Here we are toilers, yet here we are masters;
Round us go grazing our flocks and our
herds;
Here do we deal with our doubts and disasters.
Lavish in labor, unwasteful of words.
Here we sit late on our shady verandahs
Checking our columns of profit and loss,
We the sole leaders and lonely commanders
Of each little legion that calls us “The Boss.”
We are the gods of the desolate spaces,
We are the hosts of the waterless ways;
Greeting we give to unrecognised faces,
Rations and rest to the waifs and the strays.
Our frontage is fijee to the travelling cattle
When stock-routes are barren and herbage is
brown,
And teamsters we aid in their strenuous battle
When bullocks are bogged or a wagon breaks
down.
Let no one forget that each far-away station,
Where the great flocks are shorn and the
wool-bales are pressed,
Is Australia’s strength. It were well that the
nation
Remember the debt that she owes to the
West.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


“Solitude”: “There’s the dozen wethers
the old man left here for meat,” I re-
marked as we finished breakfast. “We
better run the blades over them this
morning—save sending ’em down to the
shed.” “Aw, cut it out, Sol,” came
Seventyfiver’s protest. “They’ll be soppin’
wet.” “ ’Course they won’t,” I scoffed,
knowing we wouldn’t have another oppor-
tunity of doing them for some time.
“They’ll be right.” “Yair, an’ if a bloke
shears ’em wet” “They’ll be dry, I
tell you.” We ran in the killers and got
busy. Seventyfiver finished the first one,
straightened up, and ruefully surveyed the
legs of his blueys. “Grease,” I remarked
hurriedly. “And sweat. You’re getting
soft.” He stared at me narrowly for a
moment, then without a word reached for
another woolly, I finished my next one,
out to sharpen my shears, and came
back to catch a jow grumbling from the
old bloke’s direction. “What did you
say?” I demanded suspiciously. There was
no answer. “What’re you croaking
about?” I repeated. He looked up.
“Wasn’t me, Sol,” he said guilelessly.
“Never said nothin’. Must ’a’ been”
He stopped to jerk a thumb at the wether
between his knees. “Must ’a’ been the
frogs ’ere, in the wool.”
* * * #
“Wippegong”: Count among our birds
already appropriately named the wee-
bills. Unless you know their song you
might take them for just another of those
tiny tits, a most confusing group, for they
have similar hissing and scolding notes,
but in addition they burst out into a
pleasant little lay, the words of which
Cayley rather aptly gives as “Winnie
Wieldt” —they fit the tune, and are just
as significant as some of the lines howled
by humans, and less boring. If you want
a close look at him, make yourself com-
fortable, then lay a finger across tight-
closed lips and suck in to make a succes-
sion of thin, squeaky sounds; that
brings most of the little fowl —the wrens
always fall for it —and in short time
you’ll have the weebills within 4ft. From
that range you’ll appreciate that with such
a ridiculous snubbed neb this fellow
couldn’t possibly be grouped with the
tomtits, whose sharp and rather long
beaks get them the family name of thorn-
bills ; yet it suffices for cleaning up the
minute insect life on the outer leaves
where he lives. Nest? A natty little
domed affair, fine grass, cobwebs and
such, but if you find it half-built he’ll
trick you ; for whereas the tits make the
outer frame of the whole nest first, this
“Cut his air of, quick!”
chappie completes the cup and has a spell.
He might leave it like that for a few days,
then cock an eye at the weather and rush
the roof on. Lucky to be able to, these
days.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Big Tom, Dasher and
myself, all grey and dusty and sunburn
and grass-seeds, sat in the hut eating cold
pickled mutton and tomato-sauce. The
hut was a shambles of rubbish, harness,
dagging-shears, old boots, dead matches
and heaven knows what else; we three
were unwashed and unshaven and in togs
we’d been working in for a week. The
dogs announced a visitor who turned out
to be female, about 20, pretty and in
distress. Her horse had cleared out and
she needed succor. We saw her wonder-
ing and somewhat fearful glances as she
surveyed the squalor of ourselves and the
hut, the suspicious look she gave the box
Dasher passed her to sit on. I was lucky,
for I rushed out to saddle a horse and
ride to the nearest telephone, while the
gathers had to do what they could to
entertain and calm the girl.
When I got through on the
phone and ordered the hire-
car out from the town I
hung around until I saw the
car come and go. Then I
rode home. Big Tom
already had his beard off.
Dasher was frantically
cleaning the place, on the
fire a kero.-tin of water
steamed, and I knew hot-
baths were about to be
taken. By midnight that
hut and its occupants were
spick and span. We never
knew who the girl was,
other than her name, but
for nearly five months —until hope
gradually died, and we realised such
visions are vouchsafed bushmen but once
in a blue moon —the whole district re-
garded our neatness and cleanliness as a
shining example. But there was an
audible sigh of relief when we slipped
back into more natural ways.
* * * *
“Oomalas” (New Britain): Obviously
“Omi” (B. 21/9/ ’49) hasn’t seen the
frigate-birds wheeling, diving and soar-
ing in the teeth of a gale—there is joy in
their every movement. They are not seek-
ing food, there being no other birds about
to pirate, but are out purely for amuse-
ment, Watch a pair of seahawks,
domestic cares forgotten, playing high up
in the air. One drops an object which the
other retrieves in a glorious breathtaking
dive. The dollar-birds, rainbow-birds and
bush-fowl, to name a few more, all take
time out to play and enjoy themselves,
and in doing so give joy to the observer
as well.
# * * *
“Chuck”: Don hadn’t long learned to
drive his new car, and he was taking no
chances. “School!” warned the road
notice, and Don dropped carefully to 20.
“Rail Crossing” he read next, and almost
stopped as he hastily searched the horizon
in all directions. The country grew moun-
tainous and the road narrow and wind-
ing. “Stop!” glared a sudden command
on the edge of the formation, and, in
slightly smaller print, “Stop and await
directions before proceeding,” Don
stopped. “Must have the road up round
the bend,” he decided. He tooted several
times ; then, as nothing happened, got out
to investigate. The road showed clear
ahead, and he peeped cautiously over the
edge, suspecting blasting operations that
might proceed at any moment. He re-
turned to the safety of the car to await
developments. Fifteen minutes passed,
then a battered utility approached, and
Don hailed it wildly and pointed to the
notice. “Aw, that don’t mean nothin',”
explained the local. “The blokes just left
it there after they done the road a couple
o’ months ago.” Don drove on. He was
disgustedly pondering the matter when,
10 miles on, he rounded a sharp bend
and came violently to rest against the end
of some bridge-work in progress. “Serves
y’ damnwell right,” growled the road
bloke, staring at the smashed radiator.
“Didn’t y’ see our board? That’ll teach
you to treat our notices more seriously
next time!”
* * * *
“Laetitia”: A feature of all English-
speaking Torres Straits islanders is their
tendency to reproduce the accent of the
mentor from whom they or their fathers
obtained their first knowledge of the
language. The effect is sometimes incon-
gruous, as instance the mellifluous and
feminine tones of the hairy and burly
gentry of one island where the King's
English was introduced by a lady school-
teacher. On another the belligerently
staccato utterances of the inhabitants be-
speak the ex-imperial r.s.m. who once
cast up on tto island. A strident Yankee
“Fore!”
twang and a tendency to interlard the
most dispassionate conversation with
hair-raising expletives were relics on an-
other island of the deserting bucko mate
who established himself a harem on the
sandy landfall. On yet another island the
near-naked natives of 30 years ago spoke
like Oxford dons as far as intonation was
concerned, this being a legacy from a
dead missionary zealot. The trait, of
course, is consistent with the native’s
role as the prince of imitators,
* » * *
“Zake”: Young Bradshaw was out
with the dray and a four-horse team when
trouble developed with the off-leader,
which somehow had shed its winkers and
was getting panicky. As Bradshaw
jumped down the leaders backed, the
other two surged, Bradshaw slipped and
went down, one of the stamping hoofs
of the horses coming down on his arm,
breaking it. The horses cleared, the
wheels of the dray miraculously missing
his head. Gamely giving chase, despite
the agony of his splintered arm, he
eventually caught them as they came to
a halt near the river. Putting the brake
on, he managed to get his penknife open
with his teeth ; then he cut the hame-
straps and tethered the freed and now-
quiet horses to the near-by fence; then
he set off back to the farm. Old Waugh
met him at the gate, heard the story, then
evinced a deep concern. “You say you
cut' the hame-straps?” he said. “Gripes,
I wish y’d have taken a second thought
and just braked ’em hard an’ left ’em
to it —they wouldn’t have come to any
harm. Hame-straps are a hell of a price
these days!”
* * * ♦
“Camber”: “B. A. Ker’s” assertion (B.
12/10/’49) that onion-grass can’t be eradi-
cated from a lawn doesn’t accord with my
experience. Using no implement other
than a sharp lawnmower, extermination
of the pest took just two years. Regular
weekly cutting in the first year reduced
the “weed” population by 80 per cent.,
and obliterated it in the following season.
The secret is: Never allow the stuff to
flower. In flower- and vegetable-beds,
knowing the aversion of all bulbs to it,
I applied a heavy dressing of stable-
manure after first having roughly dug
over the ground and let the chooks loose
on the subterranean fruits —they loved
’em. Those left took the knock to the
manure the following year.
* * * ♦
“Derwent”: It’s not only sheep-dogs
that are becoming scarce and high in
price owing to mechanisation. Not tong
ago a pair of leading bullocks changed
hands in Tasmania’s north-west coast for
£156. They were Durham-Hereford
cross six-year-olds and well-matched, with
a reputation for being particularly good
leaders in rough country. Although
mechanical haulage has largely displaced
the bullock, in forest country especially,
they are still necessary for cable-hauling
and similar jobs. Not all bullockies run
a pair of leaders, by the way. I knew
a man in the Otway Forest of Victoria
who relied on a single leader, wearing
a horse-collar, which he guided by a
series of sharp whistles instead of the
customary whip and language.
* * * *
“Bo”: The light engine gave a de-
bilitated sort of whistle just before it shot
around the down-grade bend of the
narrow-gauge railway. The driver
jammed the brakes on hard, but it was
too late. The cow finished up very dis-
integrated, but not before the front bogie
of the engine had parted company with
the rails. The driver got down, and was
cursefully surveying the position when a
voice drawled; “I bin expecting that —
Pitcher’s cow’s always wanderin’ about
that line. I bin watchin’ him there now
for nilly an hour.” The driver looked
across to where a fat dreamy individual
with a week’s growth on was sitting
against the trunk of an ironbark just out-
side the railway fence. “Well, you could
hear us cornin’, couldn’t y’?” asked the
enginedriver. -“Yair, heard y’ crossin’ the
bridge a mile or two back,” answered the
taker of his case. “Well, whyinell didn’t
y’ chase the blasted cow off the line, you
idiot?” demanded the driver. “Not on
y’r life!” the weary-looking one drawled.
“Read in the paper on’y the other day
where a cocky beat some kids up for
chasin’ his cows —y’ want to see a man
finish up in ’orspital?”
♦ * * *
“Narsty Norm”: As a “cornerman”—
I’ve spent quite a slice of my life in that
conjunction of three States around
Tibooburra and parts adjacent—a man
is neither Cornstalk, Croweater nor
Bananalander. Consequently, inter-State
squabbles have never been of much in-
terest to me, as I’ve always reckoned
on one Australian being much the same
as another. But after a recent trip along
the Murray, crossing from one side to
the other from Albury to Renmark, I’m
going to buy in. The “corner” people
are friendly, and generally stop for a
yarn to pass the time of day, even with
complete strangers, or if they are in a
hurry, never fail to give a friendly wave
to other wayfarers, and in N.S.W.,
Queensland and South Aus. this friendly
greeting is . returned with a grin, so why
is it (this was my first trip south of the
border, mind) that once the Murray is
crossed the friendly wave is greeted with
a vacant gawk or a frozen stare?
* * * *
“En B.”: If “Rooster’s” whales (B.
19/10/’49) have “piscatorial” gullets, are
they also equipped with gills and scales,
not to mention nervous, vascular and re-
productive systems of a type that whales,
“Rooster’s” relations, and all other
mammals discarded as old-fashioned
several million years ago?
* * * *
“Quorn”: Don’t know about Kelly’s
idea of aerial navigation (B. 26/10/’49),
but a dragon-fly can travel between two
points without undue circumambulation.
One I watched set a straight course at 90
degrees to a brisk wind. He was headed
somewhere between 50 and 60 degrees off
the wind, and at that angle he made a
few inches of leeway every half-dozen
yards. When this leeway had reached its
maximum he revved his engines until his
nose crossed the invisible straight line that
he’d apparently chosen. He then cut
down to . cruising speed, fell away a few
inches in a long shallow arc and accel-
erated back to the line as before. The
whole flight-line was a horizontal version
of the vertically accurate course set by
Kipling for his imaginary dirigible in
“With the Night Mail.” It may not have
been a mathematically straight line, but it
was the nearest thing to it that the insect
could travel with an uneconomical expen-
diture of fuel,
* * * *
“Amdee”: Lice, not mosquitoes, are
the cause of trouble in a flying-fox camp
(B. 21 /9 / ’49). The fruit-bat, being
nocturnal in its habits, is, like the fellow-
pest the mossie, on the hunt for food
at night; both rest during the day, the
bat high in the branches of trees, the
mosquito in the undergrowth beneath
the trees. It is then that the myriads of
tiny yellow lice hunt for food in the
folds of the thin membranous wings of
the bat as it hangs head-down, suspended
by its hind-claws, while its front-claws,
being part of the main-spar of the wings,
are unable to scratch where the lice are.
Wouldn’t it?
THE LUCERNE-PATCH.
It’s good when travelling all the day
Through land of brown and red and grey,
Suddenly far away to catch
The sight of a bright-green lucerne-patch.
When day is red and sun burns hot
And there’s no cool or shady spot
How fine, the while you wipe your thatch,
To rest your eyes on a lucerne-patch I
On past the logs and fences white,
The long, hot road that burns the sight;
What joy to heart —and hard to match! —
The cool, sweet green of the lucerne-patch.
At turn of track, twist in the road,
From back or front of trap or load;
Eyes light to get, if but a snatch,
The welcome glow of the lucerne-patch.
From top of hill, in valley low,
See how the emerald acres grow!
And we love this land, as there we watch
The warm earth succor the lucerne-patch.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends. Writ- To
Sept., Profit. 2} p.c. ten Off. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1942*. 137,290 125,000 10,000 2,290 3,440,627
5 p.c.
1943.. 282,479 250,000 25,000 7,479 3,448,106
5i p.c.
1944.. 290,926 262,500 25,000 3,426 3,451,532
5J p.c.
1945.. 342,362 287,500 50,000 4,862 3,456,394
6 p.c.
1946.. 354,564 300,000 50,000 4,564 3,460,958
1947.. 421,952 351,781 65,000 5,171 3,466,129
Surplus absorption Q.N. Bank,
£893,991 4,360,120
From inner reserves, £806,009 .. 5,166,129
Q.N. p. and 1. balance, £48,366.. 5,214,495
National and Subsidiary.
64 p.c.
1948.. 558,597 437,192 65,000 56,405 5,270,900
7 p.c.
1949.. 540,178 470,822 65,000 4,351 5,275,251
* Six months.
The Chifley Government’s desperate
attempt to nationalise the private trading
banks was part of its policy of industrial
conscription, whereby trade and industry,
and all associated therewith, directly and
indirectly, would become a target for
spoliatory attacks by politicians. The
attempt, which was a piece of naked
totalitarianism, failed to pass the test of
constitutionality before the High Court
and Privy Council Still, if returned to
power, “Labor” says it will find new
ways of achieving its object. Given a
monopoly of banking it would be an easy
matter, as opportunity offered, to nation-
alise one part after another of trade and in-
dustry by manipulating the flow of capital
and credit, the life-blood of free enterprise.
And free enterprise has the strongest of
all motives to provide efficiency and give
the public what it desires, in that it may
expect to reap the profit of so doing.
Commenting on the position as it stands
today, the National, second-biggest of
Australia’s private trading banks, makes
these interesting points: (1) The Privy
Council has not said nationalisation is
impossible; (2) it might still prove con-
stitutional for the Government to com-
pulsorily acquire the shares, assets and
liabilities of the trading banks ; (3) the
trading banks have willingly accepted the
principle of central-bank leadership; (4)
severe and unfair application of provi-
sions of the 1945 Banking Act could bring
about destruction of the trading banks.
Neither the soundness of the trading
banks nor the services they render are
in question—both are acknowledged “ex-
cellent.” What needs to be guarded
against is that the trading banks do not
become more powerful than is necessary
in the interests of all-round economic
progress and efficiency. This much has
been achieved already by the Banking
Act of 1945, which gives the central bank
power to regulate credit and advance
policy, interest rates, bank investments,
and, indirectly, the level of private-bank
earnings. The danger-point in the whole
field of money and banking now lies not
in the private trading banks, but in a
politically-controlled central bank.
The Liberal-Country party proposes
to: (1) Repeal the Nationalisation Act
of 1947; (2) ask the people to alter the
Constitution so that no undertaking can
be nationalised without a referendum ;
(3) make fair competition the keynote of
the Commonwealth Bank’s trading activi-
ties ; (4) take control of Commonwealth
Bank policy out of the hands of one
politician (the Federal Treasurer) and
place it in those of a small board of
directors, of which the governor of the
bank would be chairman; Parliament
itself to resolve any important ques-
tion of policy upon which the Treasurer
and board were unable to agree.
The figures of the enterprising National
and its subsidiary, the Q.N. Bank (which
was taken over in the 1948 term and
is now in voluntary liquidation), reflect
healthy expansion of the business, as well
as the inflationary pressures of the day.
Latest addition to these pressures is the
currency devaluation in the sterling area,
which has given prices and costs a tem-
porary and unwelcome lift. The co.’s de-
posits, etc., increased by £18,030,397 and
its advances by £15,949,291, while
£6,953,251 was added to low-interest-
bearing liquids:
National and Subsidiary.
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £6,726,025 £6,726,025 £6,726,025
Notes .. .. 47,492 47,491 47,491
Deposits, etc. 118,268,463 132,056,193 150,086,590
Due other banks 744,131 2,314,683 3,296,964
Liquids .. 74,856,739 80,760,002 87,713,523
Advances .. 52,943,047 62,919,265 78,868,556
Other assets' .. 522,422 914,891 1,432,813
Premises .. 1,881,623 2,057,043 2,652,839
Still, only 52.5 p.c. of the deposits was
employed in assisting trade and industry,
as against 82.6 p.c. in 1939. Liquids,
which include £56,987,000 on “special”
account with the Commonwealth Bank,
amounted to 57.1 p.c. of outside liabili-
ties. It is an exceptionally strong posi-
tion.
Gross earnings (£3,830,264) increased
by £536,716, of which exes. (£2,867,886)
gobbled £519,901. A growth of £35,239
in taxes (£422,205) left the net result
£18,424 short of the previous year’s at
£540,173. That was 4.5 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined), or a shade over 8 p.c. on capital
alone. The cautious board lifted the div.
from 6| p.c. to 7 p.c., best rate paid
since 1931.
The f.-p. pound shares at 345. and the
12s. 6d.-paid contribs. each return
approximately 4.1 p.c. on a 7 p.c. div.
basis. Net tangible cover (book-value)
is 355, Bd. per pound of paid capital.
Bradford Cotton Mills
Bradford Cotton and Subsidiaries.*
, Dividends \ To Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.serves.t
£ £ £ £
1941.. 59,097 6 p.c, 10 p.c. 55,381 3,716 207,020
Forfeited shares reserve* £8 .. .. 207,028
1942.. 85,133 6 p.c. 10 p.c. 70,948 14,185 221,213
1943.. 103,820 6 „ 10 „ 83,372 20,448 241,661
1944.. 107,334 6 „ 10 „ 83,372 23,962 265,623
1945.. 106,483 6 „ 10 „ 83,374 23,109 288,732
1946.. 100,659 6 „ 10 „ 83,374 17,285 306,017
1947.. 114,492 6 „ 10 „ 89,079 25,413 331,430
1948.. 116,791 6 „ 10 „ 94,085 22,706 354,136
Share premiums, £282,435 .. .. 636,571
Removal exes., £43,554 .. .. 593,017
1949.. 145,858 6 p.c. 10 p.c.125,840 20,018 618,035
* Excluding outside interests, t After deducting in-
tangibles (£2863), and excluding depreciation re-
serve (now £734,946).
This 22-yeaf-old and its 10 subsidiaries
—five in N. S. Wales, four in Victoria
and one in New Zealand —have put up a
very creditable performance, and, pro-
vided influences outside the management’s
control don’t push costs and prices to
uncompetitive levels, it should continue
to give a good account of itself. The
New Zealand offshoot, in which Felt and
Textiles is also interested, proposes to
discontinue operations there, and the plant
is to be transferred to Australia.
Paid capital of the group, which is in
the forefront of Australia’s infant cotton-
textile industry, advanced from £115,906
in 1935, when the public became interested,
to £894,000-odd in 1942. The figure re-
mained steady until 1946, when 370,945
new £1 ords. were issued at par. Last
term a further 564,871 new £1 ords. were
put out at a stiff premium (fixed by
capital-control authority) of 13s. each.
That lifted issued capital to £1,847,942,
of which £1,569,109 was in hand at June
30 last, leaving £278,833 to come. Of the
share premiums, £282,435 had been re-
ceived and added to reserves, which will
benefit by a further £84,731 from the
same source.
Money was needed to erect three new
spinning mills —one each at Rutherford
(near Maitland), Newcastle and Bendigo
—which have been taken over by three
new subsidiaries. The Rutherford mill,
which will turn out colored yarns, has
just come into production, but it will be
some time before output is at the full.
A lot of equipment was transferred to
Rutherford from the parent’s main mill
at Sydney, and more is yet to be shifted.
The Newcastle and Bendigo plants, to
house which new buildings had to be
erected, are not expected to begin market-
ing their products until the early part of
1950. The one at Bendigo is to specialise
in production of cotton tyre-cord.
Delay in arrival of new equipment and
difficulties associated with building, to-
gether with the coal strike and other
troubles, upset the co.’s blueprint of a
smooth construction programme. There
was thus a lot more money represented
by equipment not earning anything last
term than was intended. The inevitable
dislocation caused by the move from
Sydney affected production and bumped
up costs, and so did power restrictions,
blackouts, the coal strike and wage-lifts.
The surprising feature is that, despite
all the obstacles in the path, the co. was
able to show an extra £29,067 of profit,
lifting the figure to £145,858. That was
after charging £43,554 of removal exes,
against share premiums, allowing £89,378
(up £1326) for depreciation and £45,189
(down £12,227) for taxation. The
£145,858 covered pref. divs. (£9186) and
11.7 p.c. on average ord. capital as
against 12.6, 13.2, 12.3, 13.1 and 13.2 p.c.
back to 1944. The div. was kept at 10
p.c., and has been for the last decade.
In addition to the £613,035 of free re-
serves shown in the table, there is a
depreciation reserve of £734,945, equal
to 23.9 p.c. of book-value of fixed assets
at June 30.
Besides the £711,684 of fresh capital
and share premiums gathered last term,
the co. went to its bankers and others
for an extra £517,207:
Consolidated Figures,
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £955,050 £1,139,860 £1,569,109
Outside interests.. 162 12,657 12,658
Creditors .. 540,337 865,801 1,383,008
Staff fund .. 5,000 10,000 10,000
Depreciation reserve 593,075 670,893 734,935
Tax reserve .. 93,251 89,356 74,977
Freeholds .. 437,944 462,500 582,059
Leaseholds .. 6,529 48,566
Plant, etc. .. 1,264,085 1,445,379 2,443,768
Stock, etc. .. 664,924 734,395 1,081,079
Book debts .. 193,758 335,952 253,041
Cash, etc. .. 102,178 208,174 57,986
Intangibles .. 2,863 2,863 2,863
Increases in assets were £119,557 free-
holds, £42,037 leaseholds, £998,389 plant
and £346,684 stocks. Book debts and
cash, etc., were reduced by £82,311 and
£150,188 respectively. More-or-less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities (includ-
ing staff fund and tax reserve) by £75,279
when the books closed.
The outlook is one of increasing com-
petition, higher prices and rising costs.
The Tariff Board is considering the ques-
tion of protecting locally-made cotton
ducks and tyre-cord against competition
from overseas manufacturers, many of
whom are operating, directly or indirectly,
on a subsidised basis. The co.’s own
selling prices, which are controlled, have
been bumped up by withdrawal of sub-
sidies and rising costs, which are still
on the up-grade. And recent currency
devaluations are expected to increase the
price of raw cotton, most of which has
to be imported, by nearly 50 p.c. Further,
since the closing of the Liverpool (Eng.)
futures market, the co. has been unable’
to hedge against prices fluctuations.
Since the beginning of 1949 the market
for the ords. has ranged between 525.
and 40s. At 465., the price last week-
end, the return is 4.3 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis. Including uncalled capital,
net tangible cover is 28s. 3d. The well-
protected first and second prefs., at 295.
9d. and 295. respectively, return a shade
over 4 p.c. :
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£• & & &
1940.. 33,552 13.6 p.c. = 30,000 3,552 11,358
1941.. 45,510 13.6 „ „ 30,000 15,510 26,868
1942.. 28,434 9.1 „ „ 20,000 8,434 35,302
1943.. 30,258 9.1 „ „ 20,000 10,258 45,560
1944.. 30,442 9.1 „ „ 20,000 10,442 56,002
1945.. 36,960 11.3 „ „ 25,852 11,108 67,110
1946.. 34,465 9.1 „ „ 21,363 13,102 80,212
1947.. 52,994 13.6 „ „ 37,083 15,911 96,123
1948.. 71,355 13.6 „ „ 42,812 28,543 124,66‘6
Share premiums, £38,750 .. .. 163,416
1949.. 58,097 10 p.c. = 87,125 20,972 184,388
The co. operates, largely on its own
account, in the wool, hides and furred-
skins markets throughout the Common-
wealth, and has done so ever since it
amalgamated the then old-established
businesses of George Wilcox (Adelaide)
and W. Mofflin (Sydney) in 1917. It also
does a brisk merchandising, fellmonger-
ing, wool-scouring and tanning business.
A year or so ago a stock - foods
and -medicine factory was put up at
Botany (N.S.W.), near the tannery, to
which additions have been made, and a
new store, with 60,000 square feet of
floor space, has just been erected in Mel-
bourne. And last term a small subsidiary,
French Australian Import Co. Pty., was
formed to handle tractors, trucks and
cars imported from France, and so take
advantage of the new opportunities
afforded by the dollar problem.
To help finance recent expansion,
150,000 new 11s. ords. were issued in
December, 1948, at an unjustified
premium (fixed by capital-control
authority) of ss. 6d. each. That
added £82,500 to paid capital, mak-
ing it £412,500, and reserves benefited
by £38,750 net of share premiums. The
new money, which went largely into free-
holds and plant, hasn’t yet had an oppor-
tunity to contribute much to the pool.
Last term turnover increased by nearly
quarter of a million pounds (previous
year’s increase was £l| million), reach-
ing approximately £7,000,000, thanks
mainly to the rise in the price of wool
and sheepskins, trade in which was “well-
maintained.” The merchandising and
manufacturing sections contributed to the
increase, too. The slip of £13,258 in the
profit figure was attributed chiefly to
unsatisfactory trade with U.S., where
some of the co.’s best customers are. The
other factor was a stiff rise in operating
costs, which took a proportionately deeper
bite out of earnings. The £58,097 of
profit was written after allowing £20,960
(up £5325) for depreciation and whatever
was considered necessary for taxation and
other contingencies. It was 15.6 p.c. on
average capital as against 20.4, 19.4,
14.6, 15.1 and 13.8 p.c. back to 1944.
The div. was lowered from 13.6 p.c. to
10 p.c., making the average distribution
over the last decade 11.2 p.c.
The devaluation of sterling and other
soft currencies should help to correct the
rigid division of world markets into
dollar and sterling areas. Sterling-area
commodities have shown a double move-
ment —their price in dollars has fallen
and their price in sterling has risen. What
will happen next depends largely upon
the course of business activity and prices
in the U.S. Hopes are that American
buying will be stimulated, and some of
the unofficial currency markets, which
have been a disturbing feature of world,
trade, will dry-up. Meanwhile, restriction
of sterling credits in some soft-currency
countries is not helping the co.’s trade.
The co.’s exports are all sold for sterling,
and are covered by forward exchange.
Subject to what happens in American
’markets, the co.’s prospects of a satis-
factory showing for the current term are
encouraging.
The year’s contraction of £168,855 in
stocks was accompanied by a reduction of
£159,321 in the overdraft and of £14,540
in the amount coming to sundry
■ creditors:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £235,000 £275,000 £330,000 £412,500
Overdraft .. 304,042 649,479 721,607 562,286
Creditors* .. 170,189 198,227 325,872 311,332
Freehold, etc. 156,174 173,999 197,513 243,041
Plant, etc. . . 59,040 70,143 89,778 122,5<3
Stocks .. 478,849 924,670 1,115,514 946,659
Book debts .. 88,374 57,952 107,303 165.357
Cash .. .. 1,472 2,051 2,650 *.3=3
Shares other cos. 26,897 27,097 32,199 28,649
• Includes provision for taxation.
The growth of £45,528 in freeholds, etc.,
£32,795 in plant and £58,054 in book
debts was financed by the new share
issue already referred to. The more-or-
less liquid surplus (£268,400) was £58,213
stronger.
Mindful of the wide risks to which the
business is exposed, the market prices the
scrip at 16s. lOd. (18s. 9d. early in 1949),
giving a return of 6.5 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. Cover is 15s. lid. in net tangibles.
Moreheads, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re-
Junc, Profit. Dividend. Reserves, serves.!
£ £ £ £
1940.. 10,781 54 p.c.= 8,800 1981 66,531
1941.. 10,509 6 „ „ 9,600 909 67,440
1942.. 11,026 6 ~ „ 9,600 1426 68,866
1943.. 17,616 7 „ „ 11,200 6416 75,282
1944.. 15,808 7 „ „ 11,200 4608 79,890
1945.. 14,849 7 „ „ 11,200 3649 83,539
1946.. 14,887 8 „ „ 12,800 2087 85,626
1947.. 14,025 8 ~ „ 12,800 1225 86,851
1948.. 24,102 12 „ „ 19,200 4902 91,753
1949.. 23,360 12 ~ „ 19,200 4160 95,913
+ After deducting goodwill (£30,000).
The 'co. handles over 5 p.c. of the
Queensland wool-clip and does a sub-
stantial livestock, merchandising, agency
and pastoral-finance business as well.
Last term seasonal conditions were mixed,
the first half being mostly dry, especially
in the central-west and northern portions
of the State, where heavy losses of live-
stock occurred. But widespread and
heavy rains during the second half saved
the situation, and for the third year in
succession a heavier clip was shorn. Here
are the figures for the whole State:
Bales Amount Average
Sold. Realised. per lb.
1946- . . 469,033 £16,473,533 28.16 d.
1947- . . 478,680 28,665,231 46.55 d.
1948- .. 484,040 32,387,030 52.61 d.
Prices eased temporarily in Oct., 1948,
and again in April, 1949, but the average
for the season broke all previous records,
and the cheque for the State was nearly
double the 1946-47 figure. Livestock
fetched very high prices, too. ✓
The co. put 21,219 bales (down 2748
bales) wool under the hammer last term,
and had enough on hand to “fill another
sale.” Its livestock and other turnover
aren’t broadcast. Gross earnings (£86,078)
stepped up by £4874. But exes. (£62,718)
took all the gain and £742 besides, leaving
the net result (£23,360) at 14.6 p.c. on
capital as against 15, 8.7, 9.3, 9.2 and 9.8
p.c. back to 1944. The div. was kept at
12 p.c., making average distribution over
the last decade ,7.5 p.c. A 25 p.c. rebate
of commissions on wool and fat livestock
makes the declared rate of dividend worth
a lot more to shareholders who are also
clients.
Moyements in balance-sheet figures
were affected mainly by changes con-
nected with the wool-selling programme—
in June last only one sale was held as
against two sales in June, 1948, and
buyers had settled for about two-thirds of
their purchases before the books were
ruled off: — ,
1941. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £160,000 £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Liabilities* .. 237,417 169,424 598,125 329,320
Properties .. 78,618 72,750 71,952 71,360
Plant, etc. .. 4,372 3,715 3,164 3,912
Advances .. 417,232 290,347 729,360 311,176
Stock .. 2,637 1,396 3,308 2,194
Cash, etc. .. 3,598 45,860 56,494 211,001
* Includes provision for taxation and commission
rebates.
A contraction of £418,184 in advances
was accompanied by a reduction of
£268,805 in outside liabilities, etc., and
a growth of £154,507 in cash, etc. The
more-or-less liquid surplus (£195,051) was
£4014 stronger.
As for the outlook, seasonal conditions
over most of Queensland were never
brighter. Costs are high and still rising,
and likely to prove troublesome later on.
The intriguing question is what is likely
to happen in connection with wool prices.
For the three months to end Sept, last
the Australian average was 43.75 d. a


Public Notices.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
Required from Persons, etc.,
Insuring with any Insurance
Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL persons, firms, companies and asso-
ciations being owners, trustees or agents
for any goods or property within the
Sydney Fire District, and every other
Fire District in the State of New South
Wales to which the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949, has been applied, in respect of
which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State, are
hereby notified that they are required to
send to the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales, returns showing the
amount of such premiums paid by them
in respect of the said property of such
insurance companies during the year 1949.
The time appointed for the receipt of
the returns is on or before the 31st Janu-
ary, 1950, subject to a penalty not ex-
ceeding £1 per day for every day of de-
fault.
NOTE: Returns are requested only of
the proportion of the premiums properly
chargeable in respect of the fire risk
during the time such property was in any
Fire District under the said Act.
By Order of the Board of Fire Com-
missioners of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Oastlereagh St., Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums
Required from Insurance Com-
panies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act,
1909-1949.
ALL insurance companies, as defined by
the above Act, are hereby notified that
they are required to send to the Board of
Fire Commissioners of New South Wales,
returns showing the total amount of the
premiums received by or due to such
companies in respect of risks against fire
during the year ending 31st December,
1949; within the Sydney Fire District
and every other Fire District in the State
of New South Wales to which the Fire
Brigades Act, 1909-1949, applies ; less any
part of such premiums actually paid by
way of reinsurance to any other insurance
companies contributing under the said
Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January,
1950 ; subject to a penalty not exceeding
Five pounds for every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required
returns may be obtained from the under-
signed.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales.
A. L. STARK, Secretary.
213 Oastlereagh St., Sydney.
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
e
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
• I
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pullen, Public Trustee.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
MEMORi». T H eaS E
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Mining Notice.
MOUNT COOLON GOLD
MINES NO LIABILITY
NOTICE is hereby given that a dividend
of 6d. per share has been declared on all
the issued shares in the capital of the
Company. The dividend is due and pay-
able at the Registered Office on Tuesday,
17th January, 1950. Transfer Books and
Share Registers will close at 5 p.m. on
Friday, 9th December, 1949, and reopen
at 9 a.m. on 12th December, 1949, and
shareholders registered on Saturday, 10th
December, 1949, will be entitled to re-
ceive the dividend. Dividend Warrants
will be posted direct to shareholders. By
Order of the Board, L. EDWARDS,
Manager. Registered Office, 860 Collins
Street, Melbourne, 23/11/’49.
Missing Friend.
WOULD anyone knowing the present
whereabouts of Mrs. HEATHER LANE,
ami of her daughter, JEAN DIANA LANE,
formerly of Warwick, Queensland, but last
heard of at Sydney and Country Districts
of New South Wales, please communi-
cate with QUEENSLAND TRUSTEES
LIMITED, Box 296 E, G.P.0., Brisbane.
BANK
OF
AUSTRALASIA
ESTABLISHED
1835
THE PROGRESS OP A BANK IS LARGELY
DEPENDENT ON ITS ABILITY TO SERVE THE
public, the BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
HAS A PROUD RECORD EXTENDING OVER
114 YEARS WHICH HAS FORMED A SOLID
FOUNDATION FOR THE MODERN BANKING
SERVICE IT IS ABLE TO OFFER TODAY,
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND
AND IN LONDON
AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
m
m
l' r
v %
$
r&
S
A
c?
IN
1
5^
? / ASfi
c-
<TN
&
JX^
ft
Oyy
f'
\QQ
z
&
xl
r^S'
2
M
>A
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited. Brewers of good beer since 1835.
K.i.M.n
pound as against 45.9 d. for the
corresponding period of the
previous season. But the October
average rose to 48.75 d., and on
Nov. 29 the Brisbane average
was 60d. a pound. The rise is
due to currency devaluation in
the sterling area. How long
values will hold around current
levels is anybody’s guess. All
that can be said definitely is that
neither official stocks, which are
in strong hands, nor trade stocks
are large. Together with Russian,
German and Japanese buying,
this augurs well for immediate
demand. The level of future
prices will depend largely upon
the level of employment and
wages in Western Europe, where
the background is becoming pro-
gressively more fluid.
Allowing for all this, the
market prices the co.’s f.p. pound
shares, covered by 325. in net
tangibles, at 355. 6d., giving a
return of 6.7 p.c. so long as the
12 p.c. distribution continues.
Each drop of 1 p.c. in the divi-
dend would reduce the return by
approximately 0.5 p.c.
Tableland Tin Dredging, N.L.
Largest tin producer in the
Commonwealth, this co. took
over an area on Return Creek,
Mt. Garnet (N.Q.), from Mel-
bourne interests in 1937. In the
early stages it ran into trouble
because the small dredge that
came with the property was not
powerful enough to deal with the
heavy ground. So it was decided
to build a bigger and more effi-
cient machine. But before the
new dredge got going in Feb.,
1943, No. 1 was lost in a flood.
Meanwhile £BO,OOO of 8 p.c. par-
ticipating pref. capital was
gathered to help pay for No. 2
and enlarge the capacity of the
dam. The new machine has
dealt efficiently with the dirt,
and after being moved to new
ground in 1944, has earned satis-
factory profits. For the four
years to 1947 net earnings were
used largely to wipe out the
overdraft (£138,432 at end June,
1944). It was not until 1947
that arrears of pref. divs. were
wiped out and the ords. came
into the picture with a maiden
8 p.c., which has been repeated
each year since.
Here are financial results over
the last four years:—•
t Uiv.
Profit. Pref. Ord.*
8 p.c.
1946 ~ £38,594 £6,400 Nil
24 p.c. 8 p.c.
1947 .. 66,938 19,200 £28,800
8 p.c.
1948 .. 101,976 6,400 28,800
1949 . . 49,629 6,400 28,800
* Includes divs. on deferred shares.
The sharp drop in last term’s
profit was due to a three-months’
stoppage, owing to shortage of
water —the Return Creek dam
(capacity 600 million gallons)
didn’t fill during the previous wet
season. There was, of course, a
sharp rise in unit costs, from
6.49 d. to 10.67 d. a yard. Allow-
ance for taxation was £24,400
lighter at £3OOO.
Yardage treated and re-
coveries were:
1948. 1949.
Dredged, c.y 4,372,000 2,295,000
Recovered, t. 0., tons 835.78 484.85
Assay, p.c 71.83 71.92
Yield, lb. per c.y.®.. 0.425 0.369
The Australian controlled-buying
price of tin rose by £35 to £555
a ton in March, 1948, and has
remained steady since. On Nov.
30 last the London spot price
was £S6IB 15s. a ton (=£A773
Bs. 9d.), having dropped from
£S7SO a ton following establish-
ment of a free market for the
metal a month or so ago.
The dredge (equipped with a
new bucket-band during the
shut-down) has worked continu-
ously since the close of accounts,
there is now six months’ supply
of water in the dam, and the
usual seasonal rains should fall
before it is exhausted. Subject
to price-cost developments, a
better showing is promised at
next balance.
Ore reserves aren’t mentioned,
but present leases should keep
the dredge busy until 1956. A
subsidiary, King Cole Mine Pty.,
was formed during the year to
take over the mine from which
co. draws the bulk of its coal.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £93,779 and cur-
rent liabilities £22,517. In addi-
tion there was £16,000 (£4OOO is
added annually) in Government
securities reserved against return
of pref. capital,
Over the last few weeks the
price of the f.-p. pound ords.
dropped from 275. 6d. to 225. 9d.
in the market. At the lower
figure the return is 7 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. The prefs., at
245., yield 6.6 p.c. Buyers offer
13s. for the shilling deferreds.
According to cable advice
London-controlled Lake View
and Star, operating on the Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile (W.A.),
treated 551,191 tons (down
21,940 tons) of sdwt. ore for
131,7320 z. fine gold for the year
to June 30 last. Another 27500 z.
gold was recovered from treat-
ment of 167,544 tons tailings,
Profit on mining account was
£330,935 (down £58.474). De-
velopment continues to run
ahead of the mill, ore reserves
being put at 4,096,400 tons (up
100,600 tons), averaging 4.B6dwt.
* * * *
Australian Gold Development,
N.L., richest mine on the Ten-
nant Creek field, reports pan
values up to 20oz. a ton (over
£3OO at present price of gold)
from No. 1 winze in the west
drive off the 183 ft. level. There
will, of course, be heavy dilu-
tion when the ore is stoped in
bulk; still, it should be very
profitable, Co. has about £45,000
in bank, and another I§. a share
is expected to be sent out early
in 1950.
* *. * *
. Phoenix Mines, N.L. (Adel-
aide), which holds 302,000 ss.
shares in Central Norseman and
httle else, netted £14,081 for the
Yf ar 1° June 30 last, and paid
divs. totalling £15,000, or Is. 6d.
P er 10s. share. Ancgher Is.
a share went out on December
following declaration of a 9d.
div. by Central Norseman,
Market value of the co.’s hold-
ing is now approximately
£287,000, or nearly eight times
Its book-value (£37,490). The
opening of Cenetral Norseman’s
new shaft on the Mararoa vein
is expected to lift extraction
from the present 10,500 tons to
12,000 tons a month. This and
encouraging developments in the
Princess Royal and Lady Miller
leases have brightened the out-
look.


Jit!
PLAN YOUR ESTATE
for your family’s
PROTECTION
In these days of changing values and high death
duties you will ensure better protection for your
dependents by:
1. Careful planning before your Will is drawn.
2. Providing for the careful management of
your Estate in the best interests of your
dependents, after your guiding hand is with-
drawn.
You are invited to
call and dtiscuss your
Estate problems with
a senior officer of
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
The Company has wide
experience in the manage-
ment of Estates of many
different kinds and sizes.
Because its service is per-
petual it may be depended
upon to provide alert,
efficient management in
the best interests of your
dependents, when required.
If unable to call, write
for a copy of the booklet,
“Your Executor and
Trustee”, that describes
the services offered by the
Company, and its charges.
g
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman) ;
E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT;
D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGB, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business. Rollery. Etc.
Production—or Inflation
Mr. H. D. Giddy, chairman
of the National Bank of Aus-
tralasia, last week told share-
holders an authoritative story of
what has been happening to the
Australian economy in recent
years. As The Bulletin has so
often pointed out, he contends
that the real answer to inflation
is more production from those
in receipt of our inflated paper-
money “national income”:
Though I believe our nation has
got a foothold from which great
development is possible, a really for-
ward movement cannot come until
we shake off the prevailing lethargy
toward work, toward enterprise and
risk-taking, toward rapid completion
of the task in hand, and toward the
conversion of ideas and vague aspira-
tions into practical achievements. I
am certain that two main causes of
this lethargy are the present infla-
tionary bias and unduly high taxation.
To be in the grip of an inflationary
drift a community does not have to
be rapidly smothered to death under
a plethora of paper money as, for
example, Germany was in 1923. It
is not the acute form of the disease
that as yet is troubling Australia so
much as what might be termed the
chronic, maiming variety, which has
now spread into the fertile field of the
real costs of our domestic industry
and business. Its entrance into the
system may well have been through
war-time credit-expansion, but the
illness now is more deep-seated, and
accordingly more difficult to combat
and cure.
Twice during recent years it ap-
peared that something approaching
equilibrium in the fight against infla-
tion was in sight. Hopes rose in
1946 and again around the close of
last year, when export prices had
steadied. Then, on September 19,
came the sudden announcement that
the United Kingdom Government
had devalued sterling in terms of
U.S. dollars by no less than 30.5 p.c.,
and along with it the decision by the
Commonwealth Government that the
Australian pound would be retained
at its old rate of exchange with
sterling.
One of the early effects of devalua-
tion has been to lift our export prices
once more. British costs and prices
have also tended to be pushed higher,
and this, together with the obvious
fact that our essential imports from
the North American continent must
now cost much more, will lift prices
still further over a wide range.
All this means another twirl of our
inflationary spiral. Once more it
would seem we are obliged to set
off on a new struggle against rising
costs and prices, with the serious
disadvantage that the struggle is now
being entered upon at a much higher
level than before. And, of course,
the higher costs and prices go, the
more difficult and complicated it
becomes to preserve a reasonable and
competitive basis for our industry
and commerce.
Inflation chops efficiency to pieces
everywhere, and it is fast cutting into
the productive efficiency of the Aus-
tralian economy. From being at first
a monetary phenomenon, at long last
the inflationary drift has given rise
to a distinct. psychological reaction.
It is the old story: vast numbers of
people over the past few years, with
more money than ever before in their
pockets, have been lulled into a sense
of prosperity and security in which
now, to the dismay of some, is
appearing a nasty crack. They find
that as they get more money prices
rise another step. Not unnaturally,
they make a demand for still higher
incomes, only to find that prices have
gone up a second step. And so the
Promised Land remains just out of
reach.
In addition to producing a feeling
of perplexity, virtually on a nation-
wide scale, the inflationary bias has
been responsible for the development
of a serious distortion in the Aus-
tralian economy. In this, our primary
industries and those which produce
in the main the capital equipment of
the community have suffered most.
The whirlwind spending of the
post-war years has made it com-
paratively easy to establish new units
producing largely consumption goods
and other light products, which have
provided attractive opportunities for
the employment of large numbers of
people. The result is that labor has
been drained away from the land,
from the heavy industries and from
the pursuit of work associated with
undertakings such as the construction
or repair and maintenance of capital
equipment in the form of roads, rail-
ways and buildings, etc. In con-
sequence, these industries and under-
takings are crippled with shortages
of labor and basic materials. Yet
upon them future progress and de-
velopment primarily depend.
In the handling of these distor-
tions and difficulties, I feel the weak-
ness in the present Federal Govern-
ment’s policy is that it has tended to
encourage the community to be
satisfied with money \yithout seeing
that it gets value for it. Though
nowadays a community need not, and
should not, go short of an adequate
supply of money in the form of cur-
rency and deposits, it is often far
from easy to maintain its value.
If in all the circumstances it is not
“Your decree! Many happy returns!"
practicable to restore the value of
our money, it is most essential to
see that it does not fall further. The
falling worth of the family income
is rightly viewed by most sections of
the community, particularly house-
wives, with anxiety. But we are still
far from disabusing the minds of vast
numbers of people that more money
in their pockets necessarily means
that they will have better homes,
better furniture, improved living stan-
dards.
I am convinced that our inflationary
drift cannot be answered on the
monetary side, if for no other reason
than the existence of a widespread
fear that any deliberate deflation of
monetary incomes might upset full
employment—something which no-
body wants to do. I am equally
convinced that improvement in the
value of our pound rests very largely
in the willingness of every person in
the community to take a new interest
in national production and creative
effort.
This requires a change in the
psychological outlook of not a few
of our people. It involves a realisa-
tion that the mere earning of money,
no matter how much, is in itself not
enough, and that value can only be
put into the money earned as a result
of productive and creative effort.
Right at its heart, the answer to
improvement in the value of people’s
weekly earnings has been stated
succinctly by a wise old Scotch
economist, Sir Alexander Gray, of
Glasgow: “The power of the
Government to give is for ever limited
by what the people themselves pro-
duce. A society in which each mem-
ber concentrates on getting rather
than on giving has lost the roots of
its stability.”
If Mr. Menzies wins the
Federal election next Saturday
he will have the task of restor-
ing honest commonsense to
Treasury finances and Common-
wealth credit - control and
straightening out the obstacles,
political and otherwise, to
adequate national production.
Papuan Oil-drilling
“Lemon”: The announce-
ment by the Papuan Apinaipi
Petroleum Co. that the location
for a test-well for oil has been
decided upon on the Lesi portion
of their permit indicates that,
after a lengthy period of inac-
tivity, the co. is consider-
ing the resumption of drilling.
As a first step the services of
the representative of a U.S.
drilling organisation are being
obtained. He will advise on road
and transport requirements and
the cost of drilling equipment.
The obvious approach to the
Lesi area is up the Biaru River,
a small stream which possesses
—even for Papua—an excep-
tionally treacherous bar, and
both water-transport and road-
construction costs are certain to
be heavy.
The depth to which the well
will have to be carried, if any-
thing approaching an adequate
test is to be made, will be a very
serious and expensive considera-
tion. That depth will be at least
IOOOff. in excess of what would
be required to reach the same
stratigraphic horizons within the
still-untested P.A.P. Oiapu area,
or in any of the Australasian
Petroleum tests now drilling.
In addition, the Lesi well will
have to penetrate the full thick-
ness of the heaving shales which
have so long been a handicap to
Papuan oil-drilling. These shales,
or clays, were the reason for the
abandonment of the normal
mud-weighting drilling proce-
dure by Australasian Petroleum
and the introduction of a new
pressure-drilling technique.
Papuan Apinaipi development
account for the 12 months ended
June 30, 1949, is shown at
£37,875, bringing the total
expenditure since the co.
started operations in 1937 to
£1 \5, 410, or about half of the
authorised capital. For this the
co. can show only a large
numb ? r of overlapping reports,
sometl mes in agreement but
often at variance on essential
points, and two wells which
S ith i n th ° usa
°* f ee L the depth of anticipated
completion.
it should be mentioned that
tbe £30,000 of the total amount
for development expenditure
quoted wag advanced by
the Commonwealth Government
during 1939-41 under the now-
obsolete Petroleum Oil Search
Act. It is repayable out of
profits.
The co.’s plant is valued
at £3930, and the bank and cash
balances are shown at £14,234.
These sums represent very
small beer for even the launch-
ing of a major drilling pro-
gramme in coastal Papua under
present-day conditions of sky-
rocketing costs for labor, con-
sumable stores and equipment.
It is doubtful, indeed, if the
total capital at the command of
the co., as at present con-
stituted, would meet the costs
of completion of the first Lesi
well in view of the depth and
special equipment needed, even
if experts in the new pressure-
drilling technique are available
for engagement.
Car Trade
In the 12 months since the
first Holden cars made their bow
in the showrooms, General
Motors reports that 6770 com-
plete models have been de-
livered. The car has had an
excellent reception, and its
“free” secondhand value is very
much higher than the fixed price
of new models. It’s hard to say
how long this scarcity premium
will hold. The monthly rate of
production stepped up this year
from 127 in January to 1528 in
November. The original target
of 80 Holdens a day by the end
of 1949 will be missed because
of the coal strike, but should be
reached about next March.
W. R. J. Rowell, who was
General Motors’ chief produc-
tion engineer until recently, has
joined the Hartnett Motor Co.
—following his former manag-
ing-director. Mr. Rowell had
been with General Motors for
15 years, and was associated with
the production of the Holden.
Hartnett Motors’ flotation
issue of £lOO,OOO had resulted
in less than a full subscription
by the scheduled closing date,
November 21, but more than


fs
On your wedding day, you, as the
earning unit in the family add to your
responsibilities. This responsibility
can be adequately met by arranging
with the Equitable Probate & General
Insurance Co. Ltd. for a suitable life
assurance policy—contact the com-
pany to-day and discuss this important
matter.
R. Y. PERKINS. General Manager.
PROBATE & GENERAL
INSURANCE CO LTD,
iieaero/ce. 37/'373Queen ft, Brisbane
WINCEUO HOUSE; ANGEL PLACE, SYDNEY
3BD COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: .
O O GALE (Chairman). P. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A 0 MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modem high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
BOOM-ONXT BATES
Single Booms—
From 8/- per night
Double Booms —
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
-METROPOLE /’
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
**
11111 l
11
! II •
fill
II
11
fill
il
SMB
T:r.SI ,!{!!i
•njk:,
tf*
s*
I n
Wt "‘if »i. "-
|“F^4
«J»*“
&
a
fcfiHuinH
H
!ii
m\
•* W
’■ ; -' u
issue of 1300,000 in Hastings Doering Building Lid.
Iml
111 . i
A new issue of T 00.000 £1 New Ordinary Shares is
now available for the purpose of developing the
Hastings Peering Group's new activities with
hydro-electric drilling equipment, earth-moving
and open-cut .coal mining.
HASTINGS PEERING SERVICE LTD.
Sso, 000
fully subscribed
HASTINGS DEERING BUILDING LTD.
oversubscribed
oev/sswor &
fOO,OOOSM4&ES
WE BELIEVE IN AUSTRALIA}
WE SHEW WITH AUSTRALIA^
a
HASTINGS DEERING BUILDING
William Street, Sydney. Crown St. Corner
'Phone M 0412 (25 lines)
OS-1
FAITH and FACTS'
12 veers' sales . £18.000.000 (Eighteen Million Pounds).
Original shareholder, have received back 91% of investment in
A further dividend of 7% on all shares Is being paid in December.
Working area of new Lideombe Building . . . 100.000 square feet.
Total annual wages bill . . . £ 266,000
(EXCLUDING A.E.C. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.).
Many shareholders hold only 5 shores I* *
SJS pounds now°subscribed in TH IS ALL.
AUSTRALIAN ENTERPRISE.
POST COUPON TO-DAY!
The Secretary, Hasting* Peering Building ltd
Box 4333. G.P.0., Sydney
Please send me prospectus giving full particulars of issue of New
Ordinary Shares in Hastings Deenng Building Ltd.
YOUR NAME:-
YOUR ADDRESS:
B 712
w as needed as the minimum for
allotment (£60,000). Whilst
allotment has commenced, the
Treasury has agreed to the issue
remaining open “for a further
short period.”
Shareholders of the Standard
Motor Co., of England, which
recently announced plans for
setting up its own body-building
works in Victoria, recently de-
cided to issue 25,000 new shares
(market-value £ 100,000 sterling)
to their managing-director for
an undertaking on his part never
to enter into competition with
the company. The remarkable
expansion of Standard Motors
in recent years —which has been
reflected in imports and sales in
Australia—is largely attributed
to the managing-director, Sir
John Black, who is “still in his
early fifties,” as the London
“Times” puts it.
G. & R. Wills, Ltd.
G. and R. Wills became a
public company after the war
but before the real deluge of
conversions. Investors who took
up a placement of its ss. ords.
in 1946 at 15s. 6d. apiece don’t
show much remorse these days.
In three years their dividend has
averaged 24 p.c., there has been
a share-for-share bonus distribu-
tion, and still the scrip com-
mands about 20s. on the market.
Outside the Stock Exchange,
it is one of Adelaide’s veteran
businesses with quite a wide
sphere of influence. Just a
hundred years ago the two Wills
brothers set themselves up as
importers, warehousemen and
shipping agents. When the de-
preciated Australian pound
blotted the picture for importers
in 1931, the company became in-
terested in manufacturing as
well. Nowadays it turns out its
own brands of gloves, shirts and
underwear in factories at Perth
and Adelaide. It took up a 25
p.c. interest in Valley Worsted
Mills (B. 23/11/ ’49), and helped
reshape that business in 1933.
In addition, it has “substantial”
shareholdings in South Aus-
tralian Portland Cement Co. and
in Colton, Palmer and Preston,
Ltd., the big Adelaide hardware
concern which also underwent
reconstruction in the ’thirties.
Altogether, the shareholdings
are valued at £336,000 in G. and
R. Wills’s books. (When the
94,000 shares in Valley Worsted
were written up by £84,785 three
years ago their previous valua-
tion wasn’t stated.) The net re-
turn from these investments,
after tax, was £30,196 last term,
or a shade more than 9 p.c.
But it is the Wills business
proper that has shown the most
remarkable increase in earnings
since 1947. Investments
accounted for less than a quarter
of last year’s £136,144 total net
profit, which represented 49.3
p.c. on the ordinary capital, even
after the latter was redoubled
by the bonus handout during
the term. On the same capital
basis, profits in the two previous
years would have been 41 p.c.
and 28 p.c. (after paying the pref.
dividend in each case).
From last year’s earnings the
board had provided “a total sum
of £93,588 to cover estimated
liabilities for land and income
tax” ; that large provision may
include something for previous
liabilities.
As to what departments of the
business picked up such a Midas
knack last year, the board gives
little information —beyond sug-
gesting that its policy of “low
gross profit, quick turnover and
strict monthly terms has proved
itself.” It has plans for develop-
ment, especially in W.A., when
building becomes possible.
Last year’s 25 p.c. dividend in-
cluded a 5 p.c. centenary bonus.
On the basic 20 p.c. the yield
would be 4.2 p.c. on ordinary
shares bought at 20s. (net asset
backing 21s. on book figures).
The Job Ahead
Most Maorilanders endorsed
comments of knight Frederick
Tout, as president of the Bank
of N.S.W., on N.Z. trends, that
Labor-Socialists (now in the
discard) made a big mistake
in rushing industrialisation,
cramping trade by too rigid
import-licensing, raising invest-
ment barriers and overstraining
the labor market. M.L.’s basic
industries, like woollen mills and
tanneries, which live on local
materials, have been scratching
for labor for years without mak-
ing much headway, and “full
employment” on a 40-hour five-
day-week basis has been a
chronic, headache on the produc-
tion front. Farming has been
hit as thousands of men and
women have been drawn to
towns and cities to find warm,
comfortable jobs in hothouse in-
dustries or in overgrown State
departments, which now have
one Maorilander in eveiy 19 on
their payrolls. Quality has
slumped on M.L.’s “second-rate
market” as importers have gone
for quantity first in purchases
when funds aren’t nearly enough
to go round, and local manufac-
turers haven’t had to worry
about competition or have been
robbed of incentive by profit-
control masquerading as price-
fixing.
Socialism held Maoriland
back in years of high export
prosperity while claiming credit
for wealth that has come
its way through the demands of
a hungry world. M.L.’s social
services are battening on pro-
ducers and sound enterprises to
{Continued on next page)


“Our difficulties arising from the present inflationary drift might have
been severe enough if the only major disturbance through Which we had
passed in recent years had been the second world war. In Australia,
however, and more recently in Britain, not only has there been the
aftermath of war to contend with, but at the same time Governments
have been in power which have attempted, quite consciously and with
due deliberation, to twist the social and economic framework into a
completely new pattern. The attempt to destroy the trading banks and
to establish in their place a Federal Government monopoly bank repre-
sented the peak of the Government’s efforts to change the social and
economic pattern of Australia,” said Mr. H. I>. Giddy, Chairman of the
National Bank of Australasia Limited, at the annual general meeting of
shareholders in Melbourne on Wednesday, 30th November.
BANK NATIONALIZATION A KEY
STEP
“Let us not forget that the present
Federal Government tried to make
other far-reaching changes—to obtain
full, direct powers over employment,
prices, etc., at various referenda; to
eliminate at one blow private airlines;
to build up a scheme of nationalised
medicine; and, perhaps with some
success, it has driven a distance
toward nationalization of Australian
shipping,” continued Mr. Giddy. “It
has nationalized television and is
nibbling at the whole of radio. But
these moves were relatively minor
compared to the attempt, pursued by
the present Government with the
utmost vigour and rapidity, to
nationalize the banking system of
Australia. There is no need to call
to my aid Marx, Lenin, Cole and
other socialists to stress the import-
ance of this as a key step in the full
socialist programme.”
SEVEBAL WAYS OF ACHIEVING
NATIONALIZATION
Mr. Giddy warned that though one
possible method of destroying the
trading banks has been rejected, the
expression of opinion given by the
Privy Council nowhere constituted a
firm guarantee that a nationalized
banking system could not be estab-
lished in Australia. “With such a
vast step,” he said, “there are a
number of possible methods by which
that objective might be reached. Some
may be slower than others, some may
require, as it were, more than one
bite at the apple, and there are con-
ceivably one or two that might pre-
cipitate nationalization at one bold
stroke.”
BANK DEFINES ATTITUDE TO
1945 LEGISLATION
The Chairman defined the National
Bank’s attitude to the 1945 legislation
because, he said, statements by leaders
of the present Federal Government
“continually imply that the trading
banks have designs to attack the 1945
Act with the object of taking unto
themselves banking and credit con-
trol, which rightly rests with Parlia-
ment.” Any such suggestion is entirely
without foundation, said Mr. Giddy.
He continued: “I state clearly this
Bank’s broad attitude towards the
Banking Act of 1945:
1. At no time has this Bank directly or
indirectly attempted to attack the 1945
Act.
2. This Bank agrees absolutely that the'
responsibility for national credit and bank-
ing policy rests with the elected repre-
sentatives of the people.
3. This Bank wholeheartedly accepts the
principle of a Government Central Bank.
4. This Bank agrees it is a duty of the
Central Bank to give leadership to the
financial system and that it is its own
duty to accept such leadership and abide
by it.
5. This Bank co-operates with the
Central Bank to the fullest possible extent
to ensure the carrying out of the national
policy laid down from time to time. We
are greatly helped in so doing by the har-
monious relations which exist between us
and the Governor of the Commonwealth
Bank and his colleagues.
6. We regard normal, healthy competi-
tion by the Trading Bank Department of
the Commonwealth Bank as helpful to the
interests of the community, and accord-
ingly in no way resent such competition
on fair and reasonable grounds.
V. Our objection to the present legal
controls over the banking system rests
fundamentally on the fact that banking
and credit policy is so far removed from
the authority of Parliament. We believe
that democratically it is wrong that vast
powers over the financial system should be
so largely vested in the hands of the
Federal Treasurer of the day, and we
would prefer a system whereby the vital
aspects of national banking and credit
policy would be debated in Parliament.”
STAFF FIGHTING NATIONAL-
IZATION
Praising the Bank’s stall for their
eiforts over the past year, Mr. Giddy
said: “The rapid increase in business
during the year accelerated the tempo
of the daily round, but this has not
deterred the great bulk of our staff
from continuing to give their time
and energy to the self-imposed task
of resisting the nationalization of
banking proposals. The burden in
recent months has been accentuated
by the granting of leave to a con-
siderable number of officers who
desired to be released from bank
duties in order that they might throw
their full weight into the work being
undertaken by the Bank Officers’
Protest Committees in all States. As
you probably are aware, these Com-
mittees have been formed by officers
of all Banks to defend themselves
and the Banking System against the
threat of nationalization. The Com-
mittees are entirely autonomous
bodies and are in no way whatever
subject to the slightest direction by
any Bank.”
INFLATION MUST BE QUELLED
“Though I believe our nation has
got a foothold from which great
development is possible, a really for-
ward movement cannot come until
we shake off the prevailing lethargy
toward work, toward enterprise and
risk-taking, toward rapid completion
of the. task in hand, and toward, the
conversion of ideas and vague aspira-
tions into practical achievements. 1
am certain that two main causes of
this lethargy are the present infla-
tionary bias and unduly high taxa-
tion.
“To be in the grip of an infla-
tionary drift a community does not
have to be rapidly smothered to death
under a plethora of paper money as
for example, Germany was in 1923.
It is not the acute form of the disease
that as yet is troubling Australia, sc
much as what might be termed the
chronic, maiming variety, which ha-
now spread into the fertile field oi
the real costs of our domestic industry
and business.”
INFLATIONARY DRIFT CHOI*
PING EFFICIENCY TO PIECES
“Inflation chops efficiency to piece
everywhere,” said Mr. Giddy, “and
it is fast cutting into the productive
efficiency of the Australian economy.
From being at first a monetary
phenomenon, at long last the infla-
tionary drift has given rise to a dis-
tant psychological reaction. It is the
old story: vast numbers of people
over the past few years, with rnorp
money than ever before in their
pockets, have been lulled into a
sense' of prosperity and security in
which now, to the dismay of some, is
appearing a nasty crack.”
WEAKNESS OF THE GOVERN-
MENT’S POLICY
“In the handling of these difficul-
ties,” said Mr. Giddy, “I feel the
weakness in the present Federal
Government’s policy is that it has
tended to encourage the community
to be satisfied with money without
seeing that it gets value for it. The
falling worth of the family income is
rightly viewed by most sections of
the community, particularly house-
wives, with anxiety. But we are still
far from disabusing the minds of vast
numbers of people that more money
in their pockets necessarily means
that they will have better homes,
better furniture, improved living stan-
dards.”
PRODUCTION LETHARGY MUST
BE OVERCOME
The Chairman stated that he was
convinced that our inflationary drift
cannot be answered on the monetary
side, if for no other reason than the
existence of a widespread fear that
any deliberate deflation of monetary
incomes might upset full employment
—something which nobody wants to
do. “I am equally convinced,” he
continued, “that improvement in the
value of our pound rests very largely
in the willingness of every person in
the community to take a new interest
in national production and creative
effort.”
CHANGED OUTLOOK NEEDED
ON PART OF MANY
“This requires,” said Mr. Giddy,
“a change in the psychological out-
look of not a few of our people. It
involves a realization that the mere
earning of money, no matter how
much, is in itself not enough, and
that value can only be put into the
money earned as a result of produc-
tive and creative effort. Many people
spread over much of industry, com
merce and the professions, are, 1
know, well aware of this fact and
fully acknowledge it in their approach
to the day’s work. But with full
employment now established as a
national obligation and adequate
social security provided for all, surely
the present-day unwillingness to do
more than a minimum amount of
work for a maximum of pay, still all
too common, can be brought to an
end. Plain commonsense dictates
that it must be ended if the policy o!
the last decade to help the less for-
tunate is not to result in reducing the
efforts of the capable and willing
worker, professional or layman, to
the lowest, common denominator, a
trend already evident to no small
extent.”
GREAT PROGRESS BY NATIONAL
BANK
Referring to the Bank’s progress,
the Chairman said that assets, at
£176,935,000, were easily a record.
There were now 3,665 on the staff,
and the Bank had 603 branches and
offices open for business, compared
with only 348 at the end of the war.
“Over the post-war years, our Bank
has gained its full share in the general
increase in deposits and advances,
and progress, particularly in regard
to the number of current accounts,
has been such that everyone asso-
ciated with our Institution, especially
the members of the staff, can justi-
fiably take pride in our achievement,”
concluded jMr. Giddy.
(Signed) HARRY DOUGLAS GIDDY, 57 St. George’s Road, Toorak. Victoria.
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire ami Accident Insurance at lowest rates,
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane,
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents In all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
DIE CASTERS LIMITED
ANNUAL SPEECH
By John B. Wallace, General Manager-Director
Tuesday, November 22, 1949.
Ladies and Gentlemen,
In the absence abroad of the Company’s
Managing Director, Mr. R. W. Newton,
the preparation and presentation of this
Annual Report devolves upon me in my
capacity of General Manager-Director.
You may recall from our last Report
that the year 48/49 began on a high note
of production. This was sustained through-
out the year, with the result that our
turnover was a peace-time record, from
which our figures are very satisfactory in-
deed. You will already have noted this
result as being presented to you in the
new vertical form, and it will be seen that
from the year’s profit we have considered
it is in our best interests to set aside
£10,000 to a contingency reserve.
Your current Balance Sheet indicates
these changes in your funds: Shareholders’
Funds have now increased from £242,057
in June, 1948, to £877,518 as of June,
1949. Of this amount, Issued Capital has
advanced to £303,760, whilst Reserves
now stand at £71,875. These changes
in funds are reflected principally in in-
crease in stock carry, additions to plant,
and in the decrease of liability to the
Company’s Bankers.
In regard to the new capital, applica-
tions were considerably in excess of our
requirement, and upon its subscription it
was immediately profitably employed.
The new shares were allotted on December
15 so that the year’s operations only in-
cluded the use of the new money for a
period of six months.
The year’s satisfactory operation is due
to the grand team which constitutes Die
Casters Limited, and full credit is given
to all our people in both the Melbourne
and Adelaide plants. Many of you are
not aware of the importance of our South
Australian manufacturing division, but
your asset there is a fine, modern plant,
and it contributed its full share to the
year’s trading.
We continue to be proud of the relation-
ship which exists between management
and labour, and a recent census shows
that over a third of our people have
been with us for 10 years and more.
Previous annual talks have indicated
that much effort has ggne into the re-
conversion of our factories from their war-
time jobs to those of peace, and this phase
is now complete. All departments are now
in full-time production of their own par-
ticular work, and shareholders will be in-
terested to know that in these post-war
years we have deliberately spread our ac-
tivities over a far wider range of goods
than pre-war; not only was the past year
a record in value of turnover, but it was
also our best year yet in volume.
This state of affairs is very largely due
to the work of an efficient Maintenance
Department, and to the attention which
has been given our basic production shops,
such as Die Casting Foundry, Collapsible
Tube Plant, Builders’ Hardware Company,
Processing Divisions and Plastic Depart-
ment.
The continued development of our trad-
ing, indicated by the steady growth of
turnover, is beginning to tax our present
floor space, particularly in regard to
storage ; building arrangements are in hand
to provide additional capacity for stock.
PLASTICS
As the automotive business has become
largely centralised in the South Australian
Works, our range of production in Mel-
bourne has been broadened by the manu-
facture of goods of general application.
Of these, the most significant development
has been in industrial and retail plastics.
In the retail field, the emphasis has been,
and continues to be, on mass production
goods of good quality.
This market continues to expand as syn-
thetic materials advance in public accept-
ance—and because metals remain expen-
sive and in short supply.
Of our plastics operation, it is timely to
remind you that we pioneered thermo-
plastics in this country, and have con-
tinued to be an important factor in the
industry. At the risk of sounding im-
modest, we believe that we have main-
tained our leadership in the plastics in-
dustry. Over the past few years our
plastics plant has been considerably en-
larged with new and modem equipment,
and mueh greater expansion is in hand.
EXPANSION PLANS
Which brings me to the matter of Mr.
Newton’s present visit to Britain, Europe
and the United States.
Naturally he has, in conjunction with
our overseas representatives, carried out a
great deal of important work for the Com-
pany, but his main objectives are in this
order: —
(1) To thoroughly investigate a revolu-
tionary process of plastic extrusion;
(2) To learn at first hand from the makers
of plastic raw materials the details
and characteristics of new plastic for-
mulations, particularly in their appli-
cation to irrigation piping;
(3) To finalise agreement under which we
have exclusive Australasian rights to
a process of plastic packaging with
wide commercial application, and
(4) To discuss and, in general terms, to
explore the prospects of manufac-
ture of Automatic Irrigation equip-
ment under our patents both in the
Sterling area and in North America.
As he is still avyay, it is too early yet
to give you full details, but I can say
that he has been most successful. As a
result of his arrangements, two of our
technicians have been working with him
in England to become expert in handling
the plastic packaging and plastic pro-
cessing equipment. Machines and mater-
ials are already on their way out to us.
Demonstration units of Automatic Irri-
gation are already installed in the United
Kingdom and the United States, and though
it is too soon to speak in positive terms,
indications are very promising of its manu-
facture under licence from us in other
countries.
These matters constitute major company
expansions because they are too large to
be handled by our existing financial struc-
ture ; too, they could not be accommo-
dated in our present factory space. Con-
sequently, it, appears certain that suitable
financial and factory accommodation shall
have to be made for them.
These questions are having your
Directors’ closest consideration, and of our
decisions in this regard we shall notify
you at the earliest possible opportunity.
In the meantime, though, you will
understand that as the new machinery and
plastic materials arrive, they can be im-
mediately put to use by the technicians
who have studied them and understand
them.
STOCK
As mentioned, our stock figure is the
highest in the Company’s history, and not-
withstanding the burden it places on our
finances we \ are nonetheless extremely
happy to have it so. The major items of
stock are metals and plastics, and as many
of them are imported, their values have
materially increased since devaluation.
This applies particularly to goods of
American origin, such as synthetics.
There is an additional reason for large
stock carry these days, as hard-to-get
materials, such as metals, must be pur-
chased over a far longer period than here-
tofore, so that in many cases we are forced
to carry upwards of 12 months’ stock, and,
as it is used, obviously it must be re-
ordered on a long-term basis.
The prices of metals on the local market
are very much lower than those abroad,
but the world demand continues at peak
for Australian steel, lead, zinc, etc., with
the result that although we are favorably
placed as regards prices, we are, in fact,
closely rationed for these metals. This
is another reason why more and more em-
phasis ia daily falling on plastics to sub-
stitute and supplement the use of metals.
By devaluation of sterling, and by
drastic cutting of American dollar quotas,
the use of American plastics is being made
as difficult as possible, but sources of supply
are being developed as rapidly as possible
in England, and you will be interested to
know, right here in Australia also. We are
taking full advantage of these sources.
PRICES
Inevitably, with higher raw material
prices and the tendency of wages and
margins to increase, our costs have risen.
In this respect, you must remember that
we are blessed with an especially efficient
and well-equipped engineering department
and toolroom. By constant attention to
tooling and redesign, we take advantage
of all possible new developments, and the
result of this, to a very large extent, off-
sets cost increases.
Successful operation under present con-
ditions depends, in the engineering indus-
try at any rate, to a very large extent on
the ability to eliminate costly manual
operation and to replace it by mechanical
process. Of course, this cannot go on in-
definitely, but as our markets improve by
natural increase, migration and export,
scope still exists for improvement in
our production methods.
PROSPECTS
In Australia we have all the ingredients
for the making of a great country. Much
has been achieved; much remains to be
done; but it is to our discredit that the
activity of a few miserable Communists
has damaged our country so seriously.
The doctrine of Communism is treachery
and confusion —hatred, distortion and
bigotry are its sharp weapons, and Com-
munist. claptrap makest mockery of such
deep-rooted institutions as freedom of
speech and majority rule. They are no
more concerned with industrial peace and
betterment than they are with the art of
weaving straw hats under water. The good
sense of the average Australian will dis-
possess these people, and, when that is
done, Australia will, in truth, be at the
door of its destiny.
In conclusion, I wish to record our ap-
preciation of the continued and increasing
support of our customers, and, in so doing,
to also acknowledge the co-operation and
good work of our agents and representa-
tives. Their relationship with us is, of
course, reflected in terms of turnover, and
our figures for the past four months con-
tinue to rise and indicate another record
sales figure for next year’s balance sheet.
With your Annual Statement this year
you have received a catalogue of the Com-
pany’s general products found on retail
counters. Although, for obvious reasons,
it gives no indication of our work in lines
of confined distribution, or individual
customer production, it will give you a
very fair idea of development of new lines
and' the type of goods we are equipped to
make.
I now have pleasure in seconding our
Chairman’s motion for the adoption of
our Annual Report.
Politicians’ Allegations Refuted
No Designs on Credit Policy
—Says National Bank Chairman
the tune of £7l million yearly,
which is more than half total
tax revenue (now £133 million).
This is more than the country
can afford, and would crush it if
export income turned down-
wards, with effects that would hit
every Maorilander. New
Zealand’s financial omnibus has
been top-heavy, with a lot of
waste and extravagance in the
upper story. There’s a mass of
overgrowth to be cut away to
get down to good, healthy
timber. That will be the task of
the new Nationalist Administra-
tion.
Business Conditions
New Zealand cos. have been
doing their level best to aug-
ment reserves for years past, but
they’re finding the going hard
now as taxes calculated on last
year’s profits tend to dwarf this
year’s falling earnings, and price-
fixing, aimed against profits,
cramps their style. They’ve been
wanting to get going on de-
velopment plans and purchases
of new plant since the war
ended, but most of them might
have to wait still another year.
Meanwhile, the “new-look”
pound isn’t helping, as price
trends behind M.L.’s barrage of
controls continue to go the
wrong way. If cos. and thrifty
Maorilanders still find it pos-
sible, against the current, to add
to reserves and savings they’ll
be rewarded by only a meagre
interest return from invested
funds, and from this low yield
the Socialist Government was in
the habit of taking 33| p.c, extra
income tax by labelling the in-
terest “unearned income.”
A while ago president Keith
Buttle, of M.L.’s Stock Exchange
Association, said: “Our exhaus-
tive tax-drainage system is
siphoning into the Consolidated
Fund a flow of economic life-
blood much greater than our
civilian economy can safely
spare if it is to remain healthy.
Furthermore, our system of
war-grown controls and regula-
tions, which influence much of
our industrial and commercial
activity and which we seem
dreadfully loath to abandon, is
a diversion of energy from the
business of real production that
we will not be able to stand
permanently. Trade and in-
dustry must have adequate re-
lief from taxation before any
worth-while expansion or in-
crease in production can ever
hope to be achieved.” This
warning applies with still greater
force today.
When wool soared in New
Zealand by nearly the full
amount of the dollar’s apprecia-
tion (40-odd p.c.) at the end
of November, Maoriland pro-
ducers figured that their total
cheque for the season should
leave last year’s record of
million a long way behind and
mightn’t be far short of £6O mil-
lion, but at this early stage
they’re crossing their fingers and
waiting. Hopes are pinned on
world needs and M.L. textile
manufacturers’ statements that,
even at today’s peaks, wool is
right out in front as the cheapest
of all fibres on the basis of its
many uses. Synthetics have gone
a long way, but haven’t won
the battle yet. Back in the pre-
war year M.L.’s clip was worth
a trifle over £l2 million, and the
war-time peak was £lB million,
in 1942. Dairy produce was
given a good run for first place
last year, and might be beaten
this year, even with its price
rise and record spring output.
Maoriland’s post-war wool ex-
ports have left pre-war averages
well behind, and Maorilanders
today are as much on the sheep’s
as on the cow’s back.
* * * *
The Chifiey economic policy
for Australia meets with criticism
in most unexpected places. Latest
shy at it comes from Dr.
Coombs, the Prime Minister’s
white-haired boy, now governor
of the Commonwealth Bank.
Speaking last month at a Gee-
long Rotary Club luncheon he
said:
Although Australia was trying to
produce above her capacity, she was
not producing sufficient for her needs.
Economically, Australia was in
danger of reaching a state of
maturity, which could produce its
own depression.
He had long been convinced that
the development of Australia was
seriously out of balance. Industry
and population had been too con-
centrated in the capital cities. Steps
were necessary to decentralise industry
to provincial centres.
Or was Coombs simply trying to
pave the way for the next Chifiey
Government (if any) to put some
new controls on industry and
investment?


A Bow at a Venture
BY E. A. SCHLUNKE
THE man at the extreme right of
the line or rabbit-shooters threw his
hands in the air and shouted: “My
legs! ”
He half-turned to stare in anguished
astonishment in the direction the shot
had come from, but he pitched forward
and fell, writhing and groaning.
When the other men got to him his
face was sickly white and he was sweating
freely, though it was a bitterly cold day.
They clustered round him, full of
sympathy. One supported his head and
shoulders in a half-sitting position ; others
pulled up his trouser-legs and bound his
bleeding wounds with their handkerchiefs,
meanwhile taking the interest of experi-
enced shooters in the number of grains
that had hit him, and how deeply they
had penetrated.
The two youngest and most athletic
rushed off to the nearest house (about a
mile away) to telephone the ambulance,
and when the others had done all they
could for the victim, they made a fire and
stood around it discussing the accident in
low tones.
They refrained carefully from blaming
Faraday.
“He’ll be feeling nearly as bad as the
bloke who got shot,” one of them said
sympathetically.
Someone pointed out that Dermott was
some yards ahead of the others when the
accident happened.
“He was too eager; trying to be the
first to get among the rabbits when we’d
got them cornered.”
“Yes, he was a bit careless.”
“And Faraday was a bit careless, too,
shooting so close along the line.”
“It was just bad luck,” said the oldest
and most experienced, “that they were
both careless at exactly the same
moment.”
And so, having coined a convenient
and more or less epigrammatic explana-
tion, farmer-like, they were more at ease.
AFTER a long wait, during which
/v Dermott stopped sweating and started
to shiver despite all the other men’s coats
piled upon him, the ambulance arrived,
manned by the superintendent and a
policeman.
While Dermott was having his wounds
dabbed with tine. benz. co. and bandaged,
the policeman questioned the shooters.
They convinced him that: “It was just
rotten luck that both of them were a bit
careless at exactly the same second,”
The policeman was satisfied; the men
helped to Igad Dermott on to a stretcher
and into the ambulance; the ambulance
drove off and the shooters separated and
went home.
\I/HEN Faraday arrived at his house
VY his wife met him at the door with
face pale * and anxious eyes ; she’d been
hearing things on the telephone.
“Where’s Phil? Has he really been
taken away in the ambulance? Is it true
that you shot him? How could you be
so terribly careless?”
Faraday looked intently into his wife's
face.
“It was an accident,” he said. “Poor
old Phil was doing no good all day, and
then when we had the rabbits in a comer,
he was rushing ahead to shoot some
where it was easy.”
“You needn’t sneer at him,” said his
wife, “after shooting him.”
Faraday looked a shade uneasy, but he
shrugged Jiis shoulders.
“Better clean my gun.”
His wife shuddered at the sight of it.
“I thought you woul4
have thrown it away.”
But Faraday cleaned
and oiled it as meticulously
as always. Then he went
to see if his tea was ready.
“There’s nothing,” his
wife said. “I didn’t feel
like eating and I knew you
wouldn’t either.”
She poured out cups of
tea, to revive them. Fara-
day helped himself to a
slice of bread.
“He was going to bring
out his two bottles of
Chablis tonight,” Mrs.
Faraday said tragically.
“About time, too, after talking about
them so long,” Faraday said.
HIS wife replied with offended silence,
but Faraday went on talking.
“He’ll be in the hospital by now.
Tossed on a bed unattended, because he
arrived at tea-time, with nothing under
his legs to take the intolerable pull off
his wounded knees and ankles; shivering
like mad., with only one blanket thrown
over him. I know, because that’s the
way they treated me when I was shot in
the legs a couple of years ago.”
His wife’s silence was a deliberate dis-
couragement, but he went on as if he
couldn’t help it.
“You’d never believe how much shot-
gun wounds hurt. A terrible stinging,
burning and aching feeling; it’s because
there are so many wounds and because
most of the pellets penetrate only to the
highly sensitive subcutaneous layer and
stop there. That’s what the doctor told
me. A couple of rifle bullets right through
him wouldn’t hurt so much.”
His wife got up and left the room as
if she couldn’t endure any more of it, but
presently she returned for more tea.
Faraday immediately started talking
again.
“When he’s been lying there for three-
quarters of an hour or more the doctor
will come; and nurses and sisters, and
even the matron will be flocking round to
show how well they’ve been looking after
hint. The doctor will prod him and press
him and twist his legs to see if any bones
are broken, and that will hurt so much
that, cold as tfe is, he’ll start sweating
again.
“Soon after the doctor has gone they’ll
give him a shot of morphia, which they
should have given him
the moment he arrived
if they’d had any
humanity in them at all.
Then penicillin injec-
tions and anti-tetanus,
and then a young, un-
skilled nurse will dress
his wounds, tugging at
the bandage and bend-
ing his joints because
it doesn’t hurt her in
the least.
“When he thinks
they’ll never let him lie
in peace, they will go,
and very soon he’ll find
that if they don’t prop
his legs up somehow
he’ll just die of sheer
agony. They’ll have
about four tries at mak-
ing him comfortable,
but each time his legs
will ache worse. The
nurses will soon decide
that he is one of those
intolerable, complain-
ing, whining and fussing
patients, and they’ll
practically tell him that he’s determined
not to be satisfied with anything they do.”
MRS. FARADAY jumped up with an
exasperated look, collected the dishes,
and rattled away in the kitchen. But
presently she came back because the
living-room was the only one with a big,
warm fire. Faraday started talking again.
“For file next couple of days they’ll
pump morphia and other sedatives into
him because that will be the easiest way
to stop him complaining about his pains,;
and suddenly he’ll start vomiting from
getting too much of it. They’ll take him
down to the X-ray
room and the eagerly
scientific radiologist
will give him hell try-
ing to get shots from all
angles. He’ll be just
about frozen, too, when
he gets back to bed.
“Next day he’ll begin
to feel a bit easier, and
then the doctor will tell
him that there are a few
pellets in his knees and
ankles which will have
to be removed or
they’ll interfere with the movement of
the joints. They’ll use a local anaesthetic,
but it will have only a limited effect, and
before it’s all over he’ll be racked and
tortured until his nerves are jaded
with continuous pain. Even with the
radiologist there taking more ‘rays,’ to get
the exact location, it might take up to
three-quarters of an hour to get just one
pellet out of a knee.
“When he ultimately gets back to bed
he’ll think that now everything is over
and he will only need to lie there until
he gets well. But when the effects of the
anaesthetic wear off he’ll soon realise that
up till now he didn’t realise what pain
was. His outraged nerves will lash back
at him for all the probing, cutting, tugging
and suturing the surgeon has done. The
sister will give him only mild sedatives
at first, and because of that he’ll have to
wait for several hours before they can
give him morphia.
“He’ll begin to drift off into a lovely
swimming semi-coma, and then suddenly
his stomach will revolt again against the
morphia. That will go on for days ; only
a few brief fragments of sleep from com-
plete nervous exhaustion at night, and
agonising headaches.”
MRS. FARADAY jumped out of her
fireside chair; she put down the
book she had been trying to read so
she wouldn’t hear what he was saying,
and got that look on her face she’d had
on several previous memorable occasions
when she hadn’t been able to understand
why on earth she had married him.
“Stop it,” she shouted. “Don’t you
know you’re being sadistic and ghoulish?
Why on earth can’t you keep quiet about
it? Wasn’t it bad enough to shoot your
friend, without all this gloating?”
Faraday replied doggedly:
“He wasn’t my friend. I hardly knew
him. You invited him
here; that is, if he
didn’t invite himself.”
“He didn’t invite him-
self,” Mrs. Faraday
snapped, “and I don’t
see why you couldn’t
have been decently
polite to him.”
“He got on my nerves
right from the start,”
Faraday said as if it
was a great relief to be
able to say it, “with his
carefully selected ward-
robe for a country holi-
day, and his perfectly-
cut riding - breeches
when the only horse he
was game to ride was
the children’s pony.
And when he’d over-
heated it because he
was so heavy, he let it
stand unfed in the
freezing wind while he
ate a big meal and
rested by a roaring fire.”
“He just didn’t think
about those things,”
Mrs. Faraday said, despite her hostility,
a trifle apologetically.
“He never thought about anything, just
wallowed about eating cream till he got
so greasy that you could see his face
shining a mile off; acting as though all
the good things of farm life were just
there for his enjoyment.”
His wife, still on the defensive, said:
“If you’d been a proper host you would
have been glad to see him enjoying him-
self so much.”
FARADAY gave a disgusted grunt.
“And the way he behaved today
when the other chaps arrived. Dressed
up for ‘the shoot’ as if he was at an
English county house; and looking at
the others so superciliously because they
were in warm and rugged things to suit
the weather and the rough going. Then
trying to impress them with the import-
ance of his “high Government official”
Stuff, and hinting at a fabulous salary—
as if his salary would be anything but
chicken-feed to chaps like Benson and
Worley with their thousands of acres
and hundreds of bales of wool. But, of
course, they wouldn’t say a word about
that —they’d think it indecent.
“Then looking on so idiotically un-
interested at their talk about farming and
sheep and the rainfall; and so manifestly
disgusted when they wouldn’t join with
any enthusiasm with his senseless flapper-
Press chit-chat about taxi-fares and drink-
waiters.”
“Anyhow,” his wife interrupted im-
patiently, “you needn’t harbor all that
against him now. You know how he’s
suffering.”
BUT Faraday got a very hard look
on his face.
“The worst of all was when we started
out this morning. When you came out
to say good-bye, and he had to go putting
his arm around you with his ‘dear’ and
‘love’ as if he was still among his own
silly, affected amateur-theatrical crowd.
And you —you looking as if you were en-
joying it, too. The local chaps are not
used to seeing that weak-minded sort of
going-on. A couple of them were glanc-
ing at me to see if I could stand it.”
Faraday’s voice and manner became
more and more emphatic.
“And I tell you I’m not going to stand
it.”
His wife looked at him, first in puzzled
surprise, then her eyes got bigger and
bigger as she saw the anger in his face. :
She rose up slowly, staring at him. Her
mouth fumbled for words. At last she
fairly shouted:
“You shot him on purpose! ”
Faraday flared up at her, his face
flushing angrily.
“Don’t be a fool. The policeman
interrogated us all and was quite satis-
fied that it was an accident.”
But his wife was now looking at him
with a different expression. She sat down
again, and a smile, though a rather grim
one, flitted across her face. But all she
said was the single word:
“Menl”
Haunted House.
The shadow on the floor
Divides the world in two,
The mad half for the moon
And the sane half —for who?
For see, what moves these doors ?
The wind off Fear—or hand,
Where the twin visitors
The Moon and Madness stand
Trapped by the silver-flare
On the fear-gleaming door
Half-opened in the thought
Of someone standing there
Who cannot speak a word;
For prisoned in the gloom
One seems to fret in here:
In every death-locked room
That opens in your fear.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN HENDERSON.


VMM.49
lo comP let * evening
comfort of “ the
t homo* gUstanla
«|S;
comfort In CAPSIDS.
f
Vi
yZneftri
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
The Story of
In 1848 a small group of the world*!
finest watch makers set themselves the
task of creating the most accurate
watch human hands could make. They
called this watch Omega, after the last
letter of the Greek alphabet. To-day,
Omega is recognised the world over as
the modern symbol of the ultimate in
fine watch making, with an unsurpassed
record of accuracy and styling. Omega
has been used again and again as the
official timepiece for Olympic Games,
and has already been chosen for the
1950 British Empire Games in New
Zealand.
Because of present-day currency restric-
tions, supply of Omega watches is
limited . But even if you experience
some delay , an Omega is well worth
waiting for.
OMEGA
ALL THE WORLD TRUSTS OMEGA
UHCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOCIALISTS’ “RAKE’S PROGRESS.”
Having the sight to see where
the Socialism they were sup-
porting was inevitably leading to
—the ultimate Socialist State,
more freedom-denying and op-
pressive than they had counted
on—various members of the
British counterpart of the Chifley
Socialists have resigned from
the party, among them House of
Commons members Ivor Thomas
and Alfred Edwards, and the
House of Lords member Lord
Milverton.
Thomas, in his recently-
published book The Socialist
Tragedy, has a comment on the
party he left which exactly fits
the Socialising intentions of the
Chifley Socialists:
“There is a point in every long
flight by aeroplane known as
‘the point of no return.’ In
drawing up his flight plan before
leaving the ground the pilot is
required to calculate it. When
he has reached ‘the point of no
return’ he knows that there can
be no going back, as his re-
serves of fuel would be in-
sufficient. He must press on re-
morselessly to his destination
whatever the consequences may
be. In its acceptance of the
Marxist outlook and programme
the Labor party has passed ‘the
point of no return.’ ”
Similarly applicable to the
real issue that is up for the Aus-
tralian voters’ decision on
Saturday is the telling speech
made by Lord Milverton when
he resigned. Lord Milverton
himself should be well known in
these parts. For many years he
held high British positions in
Malaya, North Borneo and
Fiji; shortly before World War
II he was Britain’s Commis-
sioner for the Western Pacific.
He refers to that service in the
following speech on the Steel
Nationalisation Bill. Disclaim-
ing any special knowledge of the
iron and steel industry, he in-
sisted, however, that “a great
deal more than iron and steel is
destined for this particular
furnace”:
“I have for some time felt,
with growing apprehension, that
for lovers of freedom this bill
marks the parting of the ways.
For the first time the State is to
take over a key productive and
competitive industry. There are
principles involved which make
it impossible for an honest dis-
sentient to remain silent. I was
born free, and I have spent the
bulk of my life in teaching what
freedom means to somewhat re-
luctant pupils in backward
countries. I am very loath at
my time of life to reverse this
process and to help in selling the
advantages of slavery to people
who were once free.
“Perhaps it is because my
own experience in administra-
tion has shown me how unre-
stricted bureaucracy can strangle
enterprise that I feel some
doubts about the widening
circles of Government controls.
I have learnt much during re-
cent months about the lack of
administrative foresight and the
destructive defects in administra-
tion of the National Health
Scheme and other nationalisation
measures whose principles and
purposes I accepted. There is,
it seems to me, a wider gap than
the dollar gap which threatens
our national stability, and that
is the gap between principles and
performance in these schemes.
“If that were all I might have
kept silence, while regretting the
decision to add still further to
the national indigestion. But as
I have listened to speeches in the
debate upon this bill I have
grown more certain of three
things: that this bill is not
necessary at the present time, if
ever ; that it jeopardises the
efficiency of our most vital in-
dustry ; and, lastly, that the
urgency with which it is pressed
strengthens the apprehension of
those who fear that control of
this industry is itself the end
and not the means to an end.
“We have here, naked and
unashamed, the time-dishonored
principle that they should take
who have the power. The crav-
ing to be able to say ‘ L’Etat,
c" est Mot’ springs to life again
whenever the desert soul of man
is watered by power. 1 suppose
that is why the price of liberty
is said to be eternal vigilance.
And it is because I feel that
even the present control over
the whole of our national life,
which is at present legally in the
hands of the Government, has
reached dangerous proportions,
especially if that Government
itself is ever controlled by irre-
sponsible, malicious or revolu-
tionary persons—it is because I
fear that, that I cannot acquiesce
by silence in the passage of a
bill whose credentials are so
dubious and whose effect on our
national life will be so far-
reaching and so unpredictable.
“My Lords, like the ghost in
‘Hamlet,’ this bill comes in such
a questionable shape that it ex-
cites misgivings about its real
cause. I have been told that I
knew the Labor programme
when I joined the Labor party.
That is true. I knew it in out-
line ; but I did not, in joining,
sign away my right to think;
nor did I anaesthetise my
conscience or my principles;
nor, I hope, did I lose the power
to leam. I had certain aims and
ideals, and I thought that the
Labor party could, in vulgar
parlance, ‘deliver the goods.’ I
am now appalled at the type of
goods which are being delivered
under a false trade label —the
national interest. I thought I
was participating in a crusade
and I found myself a camp-
follower in a Take’s progress.’ I
am one of a large number of
people of independent minds
who saw the merit of the Labor-
party programme of social jus-
tice, but who are now beginning
to feel uneasy about the lengths
to which the rest of that pro-
gramme is taking them.
“In resigning from the Labor
party I feel it my duty to make
my protest in public, especially
as I know there are many others
of the party who share my
views. The road on which we
are travelling leads to a preci-
pice, at the foot of which
clearly emerges the totalitarian
State.
“I speak for thousands of in-
dependent thinkers who voted
Labor at the last election and
who have a keen desire to see
social justice, but now begin to
fear, as I do, that such mea-
sures as the Iron and Steel Bill
will destroy the only possible
basis of social justice, which is
surely a prosperous and united
nation. My Lords, in this
House at least there is no ex-
cuse for failing to speak when
conscience so dictates. I have
no morbid desire to be a martyr,
and I find it extremely difficult
having to make a public con-
fession that one has made a mis-
take, but I am unwilling to be
a silent passenger on this sinister
journey, and I will certainly not
betray the principles of free-
dom which have made this
country great, nor will I help to
forge a weapon which, in later
and less worthy hands, may
strike those principles dead. I
therefore declare my opposition
to this bill and my resignation
from the party which supports
it.”
German “Blue Shirts.”
By far the most forthright
comment on the Soviet-
established East German Gov-
ernment noted in a wide range
of overseas papers—British and
American appeared in the
Labor “Daily Herald” (Lon-
don). It sees the move as
nothing less than a deliberate
Soviet attempt to revive the
equivalent of Nazism.
Noting that Stalin has hailed
the set-up as “a turning-point in
the history of Europe,” the
“E)aily Herald” editorially
pointed out that the last time
Stalin used that particular
phrase was in acclaiming the
signature of his pact with Hitler.
“That,” it commented, “is
not without significance. Once
again the attempt is being made
to form an alliance between
Soviet Imperialism and German
Nationalism. ‘These two
peoples,’ says Mr. Stalin exult-
antly, ‘possess the greatest
potential in Europe for accom-
plishing great actions of world
importance.’ An ominous
phrase, when one remembers
the secret protocols of the 1939
Treaty.
“The violently nationalist
character of the new East Ger-
man regime is very clear. Its
Communist leaders use the
language and the methods of
their Nazi predecessors,
“The inauguration of Presi-
dent Pieck was like a miniature
Nazi parteitag . The new
Jugend formatibns paraded—in
blue shirts instead of brown.
The armed police goose-stepped
past the saluting base. Instead
of the rasping chant of 'Sieg
HeiV was the almost indistin-
guishable chant of ‘Einheit
“The basis of the new
regime is the ‘National Front.’
It is Communist-controlled, but
it is avowedly and aggressively
nationalist. Former Nazis,
Prussian militarists, are wel-
comed into its ranks, if they are
regarded as ‘patriots.’ German
Communists are warned that
they will be guilty of ‘sectari-
anism’ if they are reluctant to
collaborate with Nazis and anti-
democrats.
“ ‘Patriotism’ is the order of
the day. And ‘patriotism’ means
a hatred of the West and of
Western democracy, plus a
readiness to join with Russia in
‘great actions of world import-
ance,’
“Already the threats are there
of ‘ruthless punishment’ for all
‘traitors’ if these people ever
achieve power in the West. It
is the voice of Hitler, revived by
order of Stalin,
“Europe is faced today by a
deliberate attempt to revive the
spirit of Nazism, in the hope
that its fury can, this time, be
used as an instrument of Soviet
policy.”
In all of which there is, of
course, this sort of consolation
—it could be just as dangerous
for Russia as for the West.
The Czech Purge.
For several months Czecho-
slovakia, that one-time “white
hope” of democracy, has been
learning what it means to go
under Communist despotism.
The lesson has been as savage as
even Communists can manage—
a purge comparable with the
Soviet liquidations of the kulaks,
and, contrary to the impression
that might have been gained
from cabled reports, by no
means confined to persecuting
the Church,
“Washington Post” reports
that by now the arrests will have
run into hundreds of thousands,
and that, from the general nature
of the purge, it is very probable


72 COLOURS
72 COLOURS • 72 COLOURS • 72 COLOURS
4/0 or/re*> P&VC/6 0r/ r sx/4/0/A/
COLOURS
in
$
p
0
(/
N O other colour
pencil equals the
“Derwent” for the
superfine quality of both
lead and wood, the purity and
brilliance of the primary colours
and the delicacy of the pastel tints.
In all 72 accurately repeated colours,
no refinement has been spared to obtain
the highest degree of light fastness and
general permanence. The colours mix and blend
well in both wet and dry applications; effects
similar to watercolour and tempera may be obtained by
applying solvents such as Dekalin. Unquestionably, the
"Derwent” will measure up to your most exacting demands.
If unobtainable from your stationer, kindly contact your nearest agent.
Supplied in neat attrac-
tive stand cases in the
complete range of 72,
or in 36. 24, and 12
assorted colours. Also
boxes of 12 separate
colours.
6MBUII
( PENCIL COMPANY LIMITED")
Representatives In Australia
Vic., S. Aust. and Tas. : HUBERT JOHNSON PTY. LTD., 324-330 Flinders St.
MELBOURNE, C.l. N.S.W. and Queensland: WYNYARD TRADING CO.,
Kembia Bldg., Margaret St.,• SYDNEY. W. Aust. : CHAS. A. DONALD
Economic Chambers, William St., PERTH.
ADVERT OF BRITISH PENS LTD., BIRMINGHAM. ENGLAND
Is Chastity Outmoded?
DuflS suppression of sex desires frustrate healthy emotional
development? What IS the harm in testing sexual com-
patibility before marriage? In December Reader’s Digest
a Professor of Human Relations realistically tells the
damage unchastity does to body, spirit—and your capacity
for mature love.
Also in Reader’s
est
Weil fed—but 111 nourished.
That’s what 64 families
thought until they took part
in a .unique experiment. Here
are surprising facts about de-
ficiencies in the average
“good” diet . . . and how wiser
planning and cooking of
meals improved the health of
the entire group families
Just like yours.
How they broke Cardinal
Mindszenty. After 84 hours
of torture (a record resist-
ance) he “confessed." And
then his torturers set about
making him believe his con-
fession. Authentic report of
how the Reds, using tools and
drugs of modern science, dis-
integrated one of the greatest
of human souls.
Polio made me stronger.
What happens when a, kid
with a useless arm and leg
wants with all his heart to
play football, dance, act in
the school play (or will they
laugh at me?) Stirling story
of how he licked his handi-
caps . . . how polio forcod hirn
into learning secrets of life
we can all profit by.
What's happening to British
workers under Socialism?
When runs of engineers, fire-
men, were changed, the union
struck against its own gov-
Read and enjoy December
ernment-run road! Norman
Angel shows the peril Britain
faces because the worker now
refuses to accept decisions of
the very state he created.
Book condensation: "Hunting
of the Bismarck." Thrilling
account (now augmented by
German records) of one of
history’s greatest sea chases,
most spectacular battles. You
dodge the German .super-
battleship in fog banks . . .
see the Hood blow up . . . live
through anxious hours of
search . . . close in for the
final kill.
What's wrong with American
men? Recently a man told
what’s wrong with American
women. Now a woman lasnes
back. Ramona Barth criti-
cizes men for eternal dollar-
chasing, lack of real mascu-
linity . . • tells why women s
failings stem from their mis-
guided mates giving them
everything but love.
In this issue—3o articles
of lasting interest, sel-
ected from leading maga-
zines and current hooks,
and condensed to save
your time.
Readers Digest
ONE SHILLING
All Newsagents and Bookstalls
that the directing is being done
by Moscow experts in that line.^
“By such grandiose savagery,*’
comments the “Post,” “the Com-
munists evidently hope to accom-
plish several purposes simul-
taneously. The first purpose is
to crush beyond any possibility
of revival the extensive and well-
organised resistance movement.
There appear in fact to have been
several such movements, one
consisting largely of former
army officers, another consisting
largely of Catholics, and a third
existing within the Communist
party itself of persons passively
opposed to the radical trans-
formation of the Czechoslovak
economy that has been demanded
by Moscow. Members of the
last group, of course, are de-
scribed as ‘Titoist traitors,’ and
it is not impossible that some of
them were encouraged in their
resistance by Tito’s example.
“Another purpose of the
terror, apparently, is the liquida-
tion of the middle class. Apart
from priests and religious leaders
the great bulk of those arrested
have been businessmen, shop-
keepers and professional persons
such as teachers, doctors,
lawyers, architects and so on.
The removal of the businessmen
will make it easier for the Gov-
ernment to gain full control of
the economic life of the country,
and the removal of the intel-
lectuals will deprive the resistance
movements of potential leader-
ship
“Still another purpose is to
fill the slave-labor camps which
have become indispensable to the
economies of all Communist
countries. The families of those
who have been taken into
custody since the beginning of
the terror have been unable to
obtain any information about
them, but fears felt for them
seem all too well founded. It is
probable that the prisoners are
being shipped as available trans-
portation permits to end their
lives in the coal and uranium
mines.
“In short, the Communist
revolution in Czechoslovakia is
now being consolidated; and the
Czechoslovaks are beginning to
learn what sort of civilisation is
produced by the marriage of
Oriental barbarism and Western
technological efficiency.”
Russia Fears.
Taking a more favorable view
of Kremlin motives than
generally prevails in the U.S.,
“New York Times” Washington
correspondent James Reston
subscribes to the theory more
popular in British comment:
that the Bear’s real trouble is
fear.
How these theorists reconcile
that belief with the record in
Berlin, Greece, Yugoslavia,
Korea and China isn’t ex-
plained ; but, at any rate, Reston
finds there is “considerable evi-
dence that the Russians do fear”
the coalition of North Atlantic
Treaty and its supporting U.S.
military drms programme:
“It is a fundamental tenet of
their faith that the Western
nations, unequal in territory,
markets, raw materials and
spheres of influence, will inevit-
ably run into serious economic
difficulties arifi will try to solve
these difficulties by attacking
Russia, as they intervened after
World War I.”
Accepting this “Russia-fears”
theory, Reston argues that the
great need just now is for
“steady, unprovocative diplo-
macy*” _______
Accepting China’s
Coms.
“Whether the Western coun-
tries like Mao Tse-tung or not,”
comments a “Manchester
Guardian” editorial, “they can-
not now unseat him unless they
are prepared for operations
which might drag them much
farther than they wish to go.”
That, in fact, can be taken as
typical British Press comment;
all through there has been some-
thing like a rush in that quarter
to embrace the Oriental Corns,
in striking contrast with the at
least more consistent U.S. line
of not being in any hurry to
trust Corns anywhere.
The “Manchester Guardian”
is also representative in further
stating: “It is too early to be
sure that, over the long run,
Communist China will be ser-
vile to the Kremlin. The
Chinese are the most nationalist
of nationalists. Mao Tse-tung
may say one thing, but Chinese
temperament may say another
... .Americans are apt to think
that if the British consider
recognising a Communist Gov-
ernment in China —and con-
template seeing Chinese Com-
munists in the Security Council
—this must be because of pres-
sure from British businessmen
in the East who are anxious to
protect their investments- But
the British have no illusions
about their capital sunk in
China.”
Taking the same typically
British line, the “Spectator” de-
clares that recognition of the
Peking Administration by the
Western Powers is simply bound
to come. “It is bound to come,”
it adds, “because you cannot put
400,000,000 people into a sort of
international Coventry, and,
with due respect to any in Wash-
ington who advocate this course,
it is both foolish and dangerous
to try to do so, America’s
China policy, in so far as such
a thing can be said to exist at
the present juncture, seems to be
strongly influenced by the theory
—Portland (U.S.A.) “Oregonian
IN THE SHADOW .
that to establish any sort of re-
lations with the de facto rulers
of most of China will nourish
and sustain the cause of world
revolution, and that any step
likely to have this effect must
be avoided at all costs. This
concept partakes both of the
academic and the pusillanimous,
for it involves an attempt to
evade realities. There are for-
tunately no signs of a similar
tendency on the part of the
British Government.”
The outlook on the China
Corns there expressed can be
found in practically all British
quarters; and the same holds
true of this further elabora-
tion ;
“Within the framework of the
alien ideology she has borrowed
China will work out her own
destinies. She has scant affec-
tion or respect for any of the
white races, and least of all for
the Russians; and though she
may sometimes do what they
want her to do it will only be
because either it suits her own
purpose or it costs her nothing
to do it.
“The Chinese have got rid of
a Government which was bad,
oppressive, corrupt and based on
no coherent political faith.
They have acquired a Govern-
ment which is oppressive, which
seems (so far) less bad and much
less corrupt than its predecessor
and which is based on a well-
defined political faith, most of
whose tenets conflict with the
markedly individual outlook of
the Chinese. No alternative
exists in the country either to its
present rulers or to their politi-
cal doctrine, and the people
know it. Being realists, they
will settle down to make the best
of what they have got; and if,
in the course of this process,
they convert it into something
which differs sensibly in practice
from what it aspires to be on
paper it will not be the first
Chinese institution to undergo
such a process of adaptation.
“As far as this country
[Britain] is concerned, nothing
that has happened has altered
the fundamental facts that we
have important and legitimate
economic interests in China,
inescapable responsibilities to
the enterprising individuals who
have established them there, and
a long tradition of friendship—
oddly genuine and, still more
oddly, reciprocal for the
Chinese people. A united, peace-
ful and prosperous China is as
much a British interest as is the
security of Hong Kong ; and the
fact that it happens to have been
united under a Communist dic-
tatorship, which is a form of
government we much dislike,
need not prevent us from wish-
ing it peace and prosperity.
China has had little enough of
either ; and if Mao Tse-tung and
his fellow-Marxists can provide
a measure of both any extra-
mural activities in which they
may indulge will be of secondary
importance to their main
achievement.”
Dragnet Digest.
Devaluation a Defeat. —Comment-
ing that “If one could believe some
of the Government’s apologists, de-
valuation in a panic was a masterly
stroke of policy,” London “Financial
Times” sums up on it: “In fact, it
was a grievous blow to Britain. It
was like losing a fleet in war-time.”
* * * *
Italy’s Ex-Monarchy. —Though ex-
King Humbert lives these days in
Cascais, Portugal, the Monarchist
cause still has at least one staunch
and loyal supporting journal in Italy.
As recorded by a Rome correspon-
dent of “Manchester Guardian,” it’s
a street newspaper; a home-made
affair stuck up on an easel near the
main post office in Rome. There,
twice a week, the passers-by can read
how the great cause is getting on.
* * * *
"The Army of Today.” —-Isn't, as
the song continues, “all right” in
Britain; far from it, in the view of
the “Manchester Guardian’s” military
correspondent. Noting, in one of a
series of sharply critical articles, that
a year ago Montgomery laid down
that the first of six “fundamental
principles” for a British National
Army should be “Not to tamper with
the high quality of the Regular
Army,” the correspondent comments:
“Yet that has been done with a
vengeance. The Regular Army of
184.000 bears the whole burden of
training and administering today s
211.000 conscripts. It has been
diluted far beyond the limit, stripped
of its regimental officers and made
into a cohort of club-leaders and
Rover Scouts.”
* * * *
Low-paid Japs. —While membership
of trade-unions in Japan has soared
from just over 5000 in 1945 to up-
wards of 6,500,000, the Japs (London
“Economist” reports) have not yet
got the hang of the new laws, and
there have been wholesale evasions
on the part of both capital and
labor, especially in the small firms,
where the bulk of workers are em-
ployed. It means that the threat of
low-paid Jap labor to British (and
other) trade remains. Actually, real
wages in Japan, as a result of infla-
tion, have sunk below even their
pre-war level. Wages in the textile
industry (which industry rouses most
concern in Britain) are among the
very lowest —3000 yen (£3) a month
as compared with an average of 7000
yen in all the manufacturing trades.
* * * *
Socialist Mirage. —ln the view of
“Wall-street Journal”: “One of the
claims for the British managed
economy at home was that it would
simultaneously raise wages and hold
down prices and everybody would be
better off than before. But prices are
rising inexorably. Now the managed
economists themselves are desperately
fighting to hold down wages, and
everybody is worse off. All these
were part of the general claim that
Socialist management would lift war-
weary Britain by its boot-straps,
eventually put an end to austerity
and usher in a new era of plenty.”
Instead, Attlee “could offer Britain
nothing but more weariness and
deeper austerity. The new era is not
nearer, but further away.”
* * * *
The Tito Row. —Though the Tito-
Stalin dispute may seem to die down
for a whilB, it is (in the view of
London “Time and Tide”) most un-
likely to be peacefully wound up.
It “has been blown up to such
gigantic proportions by the Moscow
propaganda machine that if Russia
were to draw back now there would
be a loss of face for the present
Soviet leadership which even Stalin
and his henchmen in the Politburo
might hesitate to risk. Prestige is
involved very deeply—the prestige of
Russia qua Russia; the prestige of
the present Soviet leadership both
inside the Soviet Union and amongst
the satellites; and, last but not least,
the prestige of the Russian Com-
munist party throughout the inter-
national Communist world as a
whole. It is not too much to say
that what is at stake, fundamentally,
is the existence of ‘Stalinism’ itself.”


£0
i
€
a
A
j* *
&
%:
u
m
fh
m
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MIS MAJESTY THE KING
•‘"A 20 SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BY
MmSONamIBEBGES
ITI
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
f There are times which
call for something better
„ than the merely very
good, and demand the
unquestionable best.
Where cigarettes are concerned
the man of taste is guided by
the words 66 Benson & Hedges ,
Old Bond Street , London 99
—for all those occasions
when only the best will do.
“ROBINSON CRUSOE”
• FOR A YOUNG SON, GRAND-
SON OR NEPHEW
• FOR SCHOLASTIC SUCCESS
• FOR FRIENDS OVERSEAS
• FOR ANY LOVER OF A GOOD
BOOK
Size 12%" x 10". Cover in. pleasing
green cloth, printed in 6 colours
and Gold. Ten glorious full-colour
plates by William Bustard, famed
Australian Water Colourist.
PRICE £2/2/-
Post Free
Order a copy to-day from
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LTD.
Sydney
_ MYERS EMPORIUM
r
I'LKmui
GIFT
Melbourne
ANY QUEENSLAND
BOOKSTORE
A Jackson
& O'Sullivan
Publication
df
New Invention Control*
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method ol control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried It.
The NEO-BARRERE acta like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26r), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
SALVAGE
By STANDBY
(R.S PORTEOUS)
DAN O’LAUGHLIN was
quite sober when his
schooner rounded the
point of the island,
although for a moment or two
he doubted it. Admittedly he
wasn’t often in that unfortunate
state, but the look on the usually
impassive face of his Malay
helmsman convinced him. Ali
could see it, too, and Ali was a
stoct teetotaller.
t s ere i •
shore wfth her'funn
dangerously close to Ac coral
reefT and she was anchored on
the weather side of the island.
Furthermore, Dan recognised
her. She was the S.S. Koumala
of Sydney, There wasn’t the
slightest doubt of that. He’d
seen her scores of times on her
regular Sydney to Cairns run
back in the days when he’d been
on that coast himself. But this
morning she was a hell of a long
way from the Queensland coast
—sixteen hundred nautical miles
from the nearest point of it.
The more Dan studied her the
mora puzzled he became.
Kukssein Island had no cargoes
to otter. The place wasn’t even
inhabited. It was the smallest
and most exposed of the Pangu-
tarang Group, and if there’d
been one guilder of profit to be
made out of it he’d have been
on to it years ago.
Without waiting for orders the
helmsman altered course to-
wards the anchored steamer,
Neither he nor the native crew,
now gathered in an excited jab-
bering group in the bows, recog-
nised her, but they did sense the
mystery—a strange steamer lying
in an exposed anchorage eighty
miles from her course to any-
where.
The first thing Dan noticed
was that she had no steam up.
In the stiU mora j ng a ; r n 0 w i sp
of smoke showed above her
el. A few minutes later he
that her boat ! h w T T*” 8 '
Strangely enough the davrs were
mbo fd “»? (alls hove
tight up not hanging overs.de as
tbe Y w ? uld hav L e been lf all hands
had taken io . the boats -
fh® time he got a line
aboard her Dan was shaking
with excitement. His deep-toned
hails and the higher pitched calls
of his native crew remained uh-
answered. No inquiring faces
looked down from the steamer’s
rails, and no officer of the watch
came to the wing of the bridge
t 0 demand angrily what all the
racket was about.
.
T* LIMBING his own rigging
Dan sprang over the
Koumala’s rail. He landed on
the well-deck just for’ard of the
bridge, and, cupping his hands to
his mouth, bellowed:
“Ahoy there!”
His hail rang and reverberated
metallically around the ship,
dying away to a complete, un-
canny silence,
He walked for’ard and
stepped over the high door-
siU into the fo’c’sle. The place
was not only deserted, it looked
a s if it had never been inhabited,
Except for the built-in steel
bunks there was not a thing in
it—no mattresses or bedding on
the bunks, no seamen’s clothes
flung untidily over bunk-rails—
not one solitary personal article,
In the engineers’ quarters and
thl tml ‘ he dC< * “ WSS
the.same
Dan O Laughlm was a hefty,
red-haired Irishman. From
Singapore to Zamboanga he was
known as a hard case, a tough
customer, afraid of nothing; yet
as he headed for the companion-
way leading to the upper deck
he was very close to being afraid,
His footsteps clanged on the steel
decks and rang eerily along
deserted alleyways. He found
himself glancing over his
shoulder, half-expecting to see
some gaunt figure staring re-
proachfully after him.
On the upper deck he found
the first traces of habitation,
The Koumala had accommoda-
on f or twelve passengers, and
th ree 0 f the cabins had recently
been occupied. The bunks were
roughly made up, articles of
clothing hung on bulkheads, and
on one bunk an opened book lay
face downward as if the reader
expected to return at any
moment.
The master’s cabin also had
been occupied, bub neither there
nor in the chartroom could he
find the rough deck log or the
ship’s official log. There was
nothing to tell him who had
anchored the ship here, why she
had carried passengers and a
roaster but no crew or engineers,
nothing to show why her people
had taken to the boats, who had
stayed behind to swing in the
davits and coil the falls down
so neatly, and lastly, what had
become of that man.
Dan gave it up. The mystery
was too deep for him, but one
thing wasn’t. The ship was
salvage—his for the taking.
His schooner was well powered,
and with luck and a fair wind
he’d get her round to Jesselton
and put in his claim.
He’d have to knock a shackle
out and leave the starb’d anchor
and cable behind. He hated los-
ing it, but with no steam on the
windlass there was nothing else
for it.
'"THROUGHOUT the night the
* Koumala’s three officers had
stayed on the bridge, tired,
anxious and yet utterly impotent.
There was nothing they could
do —absolutely nothing. Their
very presence here was a
mockery, simply a fulfilment of
a regulation stating that a vessel
being towed overseas must carry
a qualified master and two
mates.
To all three the parting of the
towline was inevitable despite
the fact that, at the first warning
of the impending gale, the tug-
master had been towing with
seventy fathoms of the
Koumala’s port cable shackled
to two mighty towing hawsers.
Great snarling seas reared out
of the darkness to crash thun-
derously over the fo’c’sle head.
The ship shuddered under their
impact, tossing her bows high
into the night, jerking at the tow-
line like an untamed filly fight-
ing to free herself of the
breaker’s rope.
And somewhere out ahead the
tug was battling grimly to hold
her charge head-on to the seas.
Occasionally, through darkness
and driving rain, the Koumala’s
officers glimpsed her stern light
soaring upwards on the crest of
a wave or dropping sickeningly
from sight as the tug slid into a
hidden trough. When, after a
lengthy period, the light reap-
peared they were amazed as if
the tug had miraculously been
dragged up from the very sea-
bed.
No gear could stand up to
that terrific strain. Captain Rees
realised that, though he didn’t
bother to answer when old
Munday, his first mate, cupped
one trembling hand to his mouth
and shouted:
“Something have—to—go—
soon!”
But then Mr. Munday didn’t
expect an answer. A mild, gar-
rulous old man, long past the
retiring age, he had signed on
for the voyage to Hong Kong,
because this seemed a heaven-
sent opportunity to visit his
married daughter in China. He
came aboard radiating a pathetic
good humor, anxious only for a
quiet, uneventful voyage with un-
limited opportunities for yarning
over old times with his ship-
mates.
It hadn’t turned out like that
at all. Certainly, until they
cleared the Basilan Straits two
days ago, the voyage had been
uneventful enough. But no one
showed any inclination to listen
to his reminiscences, least of all
Captain Rees, who kept strictly
to himself and made no attempt
to disguise his contempt for
every member of his small crew,
AT forty Rees was a soured
and bitter man, a failure in
his chosen profession. Not that
his seamanship was bad; no one
had ever questioned that. They
seldom got beyond his unfor-
tunate manner, his truculence to
his superiors, his sneering,
domineering attitude to the men
under him. Even as a junior
officer he antagonised the hands,
Seamen had been known to walk
off a ship simply because they
heard Rees was joining her as
second-mate,
It showed in his face, that
surly nature, showed in the dark,
brooding eyes under the scowl-
ing brow, in the aggressively out-
thrust lower-lip. Even his short,
thickset figure spoke of aggres-
sion. Whatever his merits as a
seaman may have been owners
soon found it did not pay to
employ Rees. Had there been
another man available they
would not have given him his
present command. He was
aware of that, and he despised
them for their attitude. There
wa s no future for him in the
Australian shipping trade, no
future for a man who had sunk
to signing voyage articles on a
worn-out old ship sold to a
Chinese firm and being towed
across to her new owners. Or
wa s there? Perhaps, on the


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HENTER SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Executor - Trustee ~ Attorney
f*
1 H t When yon appoint Barns Philp Trust
Company Limited as your executor or trustee, you
show sound judgement The administration of your
estate will, one day, become the responsibility of ex-
perienced directors and capable officers. Your family’s
interests will be fully protected at every turn by this
permanent and solidly financed institution.
~Hands That Never Leave the Wheel” explains how
the Company can assist you. A complimentary copy of
this interesting booklet will be forwarded on request.
James Burns
P. T. W. Block
MANAGER: L. S. Parker
DIRECTORS:
Joseph Mitchell
Eric Priestley Lee
SECRETARY: E. R- Overton, F.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. BU 5901
Box 543, 6.P.0., Sydney
BPI 4-49
A BULWARK
Against Misfortune
CHRISTMAS
SUGGESTIONS
DOUBLE-BREASTED
DINNER SUITS
Made in England, these dinner suits
are smartly cut in the latest semi-
drape style. The double-breasted
jacket of diamond black Barathea
has corded silk facings. The trousers
have braided side seams. ,£24/19/6.
n
SPORTS TROUSERS
Imported English Sports Trousers of
twill worsted flannel in the new shade of
Mid Grey. Cut for comfort, plus style,
they are ideal for summer wear, 99/6.
FOR LADIES-
NYLONS
Prestige Nylons, full
fashioned, 13/9. English
Nylons by Prestige, full
fashioned, 11/6. “Queen of
Hearts” Nylons, “Holeproof*
full fashioned, 12/11,
“Sutex” Nylons, full
fashioned, 13/3,
Coty 4 season Cologne,
40/-, 21/-, 10/6.
“4711” Cologne in
lOoz. bottles, 42/9;
70z., 30/3 ; 60z., 17/6;
loz., 5/9 ; 250 z. wicker
covered bottles, £5/12/6
PERFUMES
COOL HATS
Panama type straw hat, light and cool,
30/-, 35/-, 43/-. With ventilated crowns,
35/6, 40/-. Tropical helmets, made in
England, in white or khaki, 27/6.
Breezly open mesh hat gives thorough
ventilation, is light in weight and cool.
White, fawn, grey, 21/-, White canvas
hats, 8/10. White cotton hats, green
under brims, 8/7,
GIFTS FOR SMOKERS
LIGHTERS
Dunhill sports lighters,
plain silver plated, 97/6
and 117/6. Orlik Bijou
Windproof lighters, 57/6
to 72/6, Ronson auto-
matic lighters, 50/- to
65/6. Rolls automatic
lighters, 39/6.
POUCHES
Pigskin pouches, wallet style, 37/6.
Calf pouches, brown, 18/-. English
zipps, 25/-.
CASES
English chrome cigarette cases, 39/6, 57/6.
PEA P E S PTY. LTD.
NEXT WYNYARD STATION, 285 GEORGE STREETj
(Opposite Hunter Street)
Address Mail orders Box 165 G.P.0., Sydney
China Coast, he would find
owners who would appreciate his
merits.
Since he joined the Koumala
his manner had been, if possible,
worse than usual. The handful
of men under him were the
down-and-outs, the sweepings of
the Sydney waterfront, men who
couldn’t get a job with any of
the Australian coastal com-
panies. Like their captain they
were the only men available for
the job, but, unlike him, they
would be repatriated home as
soon as the Koumala was de-
livered in Hong Kong. Besides
the two mates there were four
seamen, a cook-steward and a
donkeyman whose duty it was
to look after the auxiliary engine
installed to supply power for the
steering and current
for the lights. For
comfort as well as
convenience the men
occupied the passenger
accommodation on the
upper deck.
But tonight the en-
tire crew was on
deck, huddled together
in a frightened group abaft the
bridge. Sleep was out of the
question. Like their officers they
realised that the strain on the
towing-gear might at any
moment prove too great. What
would happen then they had no
idea. It was not their job to
think out remedies. Captain
Rees was paid to do that, and
they had no doubts that he would
order them to do something that
was both difficult and dangerous.
In anticipation of that order they
grumbled and cursed him
bitterly.
Two hours before dawn the
towline parted. With nothing to
check her the Koumala swung
broadside to the seas and rolled
so far to starb’d that old Munday
feared she’d never come back.
Clinging frantically to a
stanchion and struggling to keep
a foothold on the wet, steeply-
sloping deck he caught sight of
the tug’s two masthead lights far
out on the beam. They swayed
wildly for an instant, dipped be-
hind a giant wave and vanished
from his sight.
The Koumala recovered her-
self and rolled equally far to
port, heeling over until the next
sea crashed across her decks and
sent her reeling back again. With
terrifying regularity she kept up
that wild, dizzying motion,
rolling with the swooping dives
of a gigantic inverted swing.
She rolled until every movable
thing in her cut loose and
crashed to and fro, rolled until
her crew wondered that she
didn’t shed her masts and funnel.
Too scared to move, old
Munday clung to his stanchion
with the tenacity of a ship-
wrecked cat clutching a floating
spar. Captain Rees struggled
past him and ordered the second-
mate to run up the two red lights
of a vessel not under command.
“And get all hands and shore
up all that clattering gear,” he
snarled.
The second muttered some-
thing about “Bloody madness,
gettin’ men washed overboard
doin’ useless jobs,” but he went,
clawing his way to the ladder.
APTAIN REES got out a
flare and lit it. Munday, he
realised, was useless. Prised
loose from his stanchion the old
fool would probably be flung
clear over the bridge rail. The
flare, as Rees held it aloft from
the wing of the bridge, burned
with a fierce, spluttering glare,
one moment just above the
gleaming wave-tops and next
soaring rocket-like skywards. At
regular halhhourly intervals he
burned another one to enable the
tugmaster to get a bearing on his
helpless charge, but no answer-
ing light showed through the
rain-lashed night.
“It’s no good, sir,” old Mun-
day declared plaintively after
the second flare had burned itself
out. “She’s deserted us, that
damned tug. Left us to
founder.”
“Would you put a tug along-
side on a night like this?”
Captain Rees demanded trucu-
lently.
“No, by God, I wouldn’t!”
"Then shut up.”
Munday shut up and tried to
keep his fascinated gaze from
the two red lights the second
had hoisted on the foremast.
They held him in fatal attraction
as they whirled around their
halliards and zoomed in great
swooping red arcs- across the sky
as the Koumala rolled. And
how she rolled! In more than
forty years at sea Munday had
never experienced anything like
it.
Just after dawn the tug hove
in sight. She steamed up
through the rain, wallowing,
plunging, burying her blunt nose
under solid green water —a small
puny thing to be pitted against
the might of the sea, yet, as the
men clustered aft around her
towing - bitts proved, grimly
determined to reclaim her stray-
ing charge.
“Get for’ard, all of you,”
Captain Rees ordered. “Make
ready to take his line.”
His order and his glare in-
cluded Munday. If the old fool
went over the side he’d be no
loss. Certainly he was useless
clinging to that stanchion.
He sneered contemptuously at
the way they struggled for’ard.
There wasn’t a real seaman
amongst them. Left to them-
selves they would have followed
Monday’s example and clung
limpet-like to some fixture, do-
ing nothing to save themselves
or the ship. They went for’ard
now because, in their captain’s
order, they sensed some means
of prolonging their useless,
miserable lives.
No one knew how the disaster
occurred. A carelessly stowed
line may have washed overboard
and fouled her propeller, for at
one moment the tug was
manoeuvring carefully into posi-
tion, soaring upwards on the
crest of a wave like a startled
gull taking to wing. A few
breathless seconds later she was
wallowing helplessly in the
trough, so close that the Kou-
mala’s men could look straight
down on to her deck. Powerless
to avert it they watched their
forefoot crash down and sheer
through the tug’s quarter. They
could have flung a line to the
poor wretches struggling in the
water as the tug foundered, but
they were too stunned by the
swiftness of the tragedy.
NOT until they saw their
captain climb to the fo’c’sle
head and heard him cursing
them as he ordered them to turn
out a rescue boat did they make
a move. They grumbled about
it, almost to the point of refus-
ing to obey a lawful command,
but they struggled aft, grabbing
desperately at anything substan-
tial in an effort to balance them-
selves against the frightful roll-
ing.
In that sea it is doubtful
whether a lifeboat could have
been got away by a team of
willing, able seamen. And these
men .were neither willing nor
able. They felt and said that it
was madness to attempt to lower
a boat, and their efforts to do so
were, at best, half-hearted. In-
spiring leadership might have
got the best out of them, but that
quality was entirely missing in
Captain Rees.
He could, and did, exert more
strength than any two of his
men; and in so doing he failed
to see that the for’ard fall was
insecurely made fast. It had
been his intention to take charge
of the boat himself, leaving old
Munday,and the cook aboard,
but the fahi decreed otherwise.
They were swinging the boat out
between the davits when the
most violent of all the Koumala’s
rolls caught them. Captain Rees
sensed it and yelled:
“Hang on! Hold her!”
Hold her! What chance had
they, this dejected, unwilling,
frightened group of men? The
steel deck was wet and sloping
steeply under their feet. There
was no grip there. The heavy
boat was dragging them down
that slope and nine pairs of
hands clung desperately to her
gunwale, the only solid thing
within reach. The boat shot
downwards and out. At the
limits of the davits’ outward
swing it brought up with a jerk
that tore loose the for’ard fall.
Nose downwards, shedding men
into the water in a tangled,
struggling mass, the boat swung
in a wide semicircle. Only one
man retained his grip. Because
he was right aft, with no one on
top of him when the boat up-
ended, Captain Rees was able to
hang on until the boat crashed
back against the Koumala’s steel
side. He sprang clear then,
grasping the davit for support.
Whatever his faults as a man
may have been, he proved then
that he was a seaman. He threw
off the after fall, allowing the
boat to drop into the sea where
the surge carried her clear of
the hook. Badly shattered by
the crash against the ship’s side
{Continued on next page)


NOW! PROOF that brushing teeth right
after eating is the safe, effective way to
HELP STOP
TOOTH DECAY
with New ! Improved!
Colgate Dental Cream
No Other Dentifrice Offers
Proof of These Results
Exhaustive research by
Eminent American Dental
Authorities proves how using
Colgate Dental Cream helps
stop dental decay before it
starts! Continuous research
hundreds of case histories
makes this the most im-
portant news in dental his-
tory! Eminent American
dental authorities super-
vised 2 groups of college
men and women for over a
year. One group always
brushed their teeth with
Colgate Dental Cream , right
after eating. The other
group followed their usual
dental care.
The average of the group
using Colgate’s as directed
was a startling reduction in
number of cavities —far less
tooth decay! The other
New! Improved!
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
Now Better Than Everl
New delicious double minty
flavour! New sparkling snow-
white colour! New scientific
polishing action! New soap-
less penetrating foam For
effective daily dental care.
No claim is made that using
Colgate’s can stop all tooth
decay, or hel® cavities already
started. But brushing teeth
right after eating Is the
proved way to help atop tooth
decay with Colgate Dental
Cream.
group developed new
cavities at a much
higher rate.
Giant V-
Large 1/3
COLGATE CLEANS YOON
MEATH AS IT CLEANS YOOB TEETH
Always Use Colgate’s* to
j£p Clean Your Breath While
You Clean Your Teeth—and
HELP STOP TOOTH DECAY!
* Right after eating.
‘vi-yW
A CASE OF
ENLARGED
TYRE HEART
ww
-
< s
.
* 1
a
o
■■
Stretched, patched and
worn tubes mean trouble
- possibly accidents
AD tubes stretch in use and that is where trouble
starts. Old tubes lose air, and while a
"flat" can be annoying, half-flat tyres
overheat and may
blow out. Don't
take risks! A
small outlay
' on new Good-
' year Tubes will
protect your
tyres, yourself
and your family.
CAR
heavy duty tubes
Every new tyre deserves a N E W Goodyear Tube
• ' m n- tf»
wtes
your
Rive
fill
H
GOOD
she would at least float and sup-
port the few who might cling
to her. There was also » chance
that the strongest swimmers
might fight their way back and
grasp the hanging boat-falls,
though Captain Rees doubted if
any would manage it; the first
wave had swept them well out
of reach.
Regardless of bruises and
personal danger he moved
swiftly about the rolling ship,
tossing overboard lifebelts and
everything that would float and
help to support a man. He did
all this, not because he felt any
pity for his wretched crew, but
because it was the correct, sea-
manlike thing to do. When you
lost a man overboard it was your
duty to do everything in your
power to rescue him whether he
was an important passenger or
the most unruly member of the
stokehold gang. Personal feel-
ings didn’t enter into it
There was also another aspect
to the matter. If the Koumala
was to be saved he would need
every man he could drag aboard.
Here again personal feelings did
not come into consideration. He
had no love for the ship ; at best
she had never been anything but
a hulk to him, a cheap and un-
pleasant means of getting out
of Australia. As for her owners,
he hated them. Nor, to do him
justice, did the fact that if the
Koumala foundered he would
go with her enter his head. It
was simply that, at sea, under
certain conditions you did certain
things.
At the end of an hour Captain
Rees gave up any small hope
he may have held of regaining
some of his crew. Driving rain
limited his vision to a matter of
yards, completely isolating him.
He was alone on this wildly-
rolling hulk, alone and power-
less to do anything to save her
or himself. With a crew to assist
him he could have rigged a sea-
anchor and brought his ship
head-on to the seas. For one
man the task was impossible.
Darkness was setting in
when he decided to let go the
starb’d anchor. It would prob-
ably be quite useless, he felt, but
if the gale blew the Koumala
into soundings there was just a
possibility that it would get a
hold before she became a total
wreck.
He was exhausted when he
returned to the bridge. Move-
ment on the lower deck, in fact,
any movement, was a strain and
a constant danger. One slip, one
careless step could mean a
broken limb or worse. A help-
less, injured man would be
quickly washed overboard or
drdwned in the scuppers. But
the anchor was down, although,
as Rees had suspected, it did
nothing to ease the Koumala’s
position. She still lay broad-
side to the seas, rolling as
violently as ever.
All through the night she
rolled and wallowed until her
captain wondered that she didn’t
turn right over. Towards morn-
ing the wind dropped appreci-
ably, but the sea still ran danger-
ously high. Not once did
Captain Rees think of leaving
the bridge, although this was his
second night without sleep. He
was quite useless there. He
realised that. It was simply that
he felt it wrong that there
should be no officer on watch.
At four a.m. he went into the
chartroom and wrote up the log.
He took a long time over that.
Bracing himself against the chart-
table he entered every detail of
the past twenty-four hours in a
painstakingly neat hand.
He must have fallen asleep
as he finished the last word ; for
he awoke on the chartroom-
floor to the realisation that it
was full daylight. Painfully, be-
cause every muscle in his body
ached fiercely, he dragged him-
self to his feet. The sun was
well up in a cloudless sky, the
wind had fallen to a light breeze.
The ship, no longer broadside-
on, rode easily to a long, heavy
swell, and all around her was a
deep continuous booming. Wide-
awake now Rees rushed from
the chartroom and stared
anxiously around.
Fifty yards from the Kou-
mala’s stem the surf pounded
across a coral reef, and beyond
the reef lay an island, small, low
and jungle-covered. It took him
some time to satisfy himself that
his ship was perfectly safe.
Soundings showed that she lay
in ten fathoms of water, securely
anchored with her anchor prob-
ably fouled in a coral bottom.
Since she had come to a stop in
a heavy gale nothing short of a
typhoon would drive her ashore.
STILL dazed by his good
fortune he started a fire in
the flooded galley and prepared
himself a rough meal, his first
for more than twenty-four hours.
When his appetite was satisfied
he set out to estimate the damage
done by the gale. The port
lifeboat, the Koumala’s sole re-
maining boat, was a splintered
wreck, but beyond that the
damage was superficial. A full
crew could have squared things
up in a day, but, since he had no
crew. Captain Rees set about the
job himself.
At noon he got out his sextant
and established his position. The
result was not pleasing. Un-
doubtedly the island astern was
Kulassein, one of a small group
lying far from any steamer
track. Possibly a native craft
of some sort would show up
within a few days, but until one
did it was useless to think of
rescue. He couldn’t send out a
call for help. Without steam to
develop power the Koumala’s
wireless was just so much scrap
metal, and Captain Rees was
neither an engineer nor a wire-
less operator.
For a week he worked hard,
clearing away the wreckage of
the boat, snugging down the
falls, doing minor repairs and
cleaning out flooded cabins. To-
wards the end of the next week
time was beginning to drag
heavily. Although he kept a
constant lookout by day not
once had he seen a sail or even
a smudge of smoke in the distant
horizon.
But, monotonous as the days
were, the nights were infinitely
worse—dark, lonely nights when
he either lay awake or walked
endlessly around the deserted
decks. The ship then was full
of noises, the creaking of wood-
work as she lifted to a swell, the
whispering of wind in alleyways
and the grating of the cable
against the hawse-pipe. Rees
had never been an imaginative
man. Never had he sought the
company of his fellow-men;
rather, he had avoided it. But
now he found himself longing
for someone to talk to. He
would have welcomed any com-
panionship, welcomed even the
feeble, garrulous old Munday.
Once, as he moved down a dark
alleyway, a steel door clanged
just behind him. He jumped
nervously and immediately
cursed himself for his weakness.
He was allowing this lifeless,
deserted ship to get him down.
That night he decided to leave
her. For several days he’d been
considering it, reading through
Sailing Directions t weighing the
possibilities of anyone finding
the Koumala against his chances
of reaching the Borneo coast on
a raft made from the scraps of
dunnage in No. 1 hold. Sailing
Directions told him that Kulas-
sein Island was uninhabited, a
wilderness of mangrove swamp
and jungle. There was no reason
why anyone should visit it or
even pass close to it. And, he
had to admit, the chances of a
rescue ship coming here in search
of him were equally small. He’d
be posted as overdue in Manila,
shipping would be warned to
keep a look-out for him. Pos-
sibly a search would be made,
but would it extend to this
remote spot? More and more
he had come to doubt it.
He took three days over the
construction of the raft and a
fourth to launch and provision
her. The Koumala’s deck log
and a chart of that locality he
stowed in a watertight container.
Viewed from the ship’s deck the
raft looked a small, frail thing
for a long sea voyage, but Rees
wasted no time in regrets. He
made his last entry in the official
log, locked it in the ship’s safe
and pocketed the key. The
crew of some wandering prau
might find and loot the ship, but
they’d have a tough time forcing
that safe. He’d decided to make
for Sandakan, one hundred and
fifty miles distant, and he
realised that at best the voyage
would be wet and damnably
uncomfortable. At worst —well,
in a decent blow he wouldn’t
stand a chance. He knew the
risks and accepted them as
preferable to weeks, possibly
months, of waiting for someone
to come to his rescue. All his
life he’d hated idleness. And
now, feeling nothing but plea-
sure at the prospect of action,
he lowered himself to the raft,
hoisted the sail and cast off.
THE Harbor Master at Jessel-
ton finished reading the
Koumala’s log. Everything was
there, the whole story, hidden
behind the stiff, formal entries
of the seaman who had put down
only the bare facts day by day.
As Captain Rees had known any
responsible person would do, the
Harbor Master had forced the
Koumala’s safe in search of her
papers. Brief as those entries
were he could imagine the type
of man who had made them,
could almost see him making
that last entry:
Raft completed. Casting off for
Sandakan. lam not abandoning this
vessel. I am leaving temporarily to
look for assistance. However, if
nothing has been heard of me after
ten days from the date of this entry
I may be presumed lost at sea and
the S.S. Koumala lawful salvage.
Signed, John Rees, Master.
Ten days! The Harbor
Master glanced at the calendar
on his desk. That entry had
been made thirty-two days ago.
Night and the Land .
Stranger to me, the dark
Who lies down at my side,
The horseman from the heights
Weary of his long ride.
Who hunts the golden sun
All day from hill to hill
And, with one bound, at eve
Makes his tremendous kill.
Then stretches out his length
Qf darkness by my side;
For love and life will tarry.
But not for grief abide.
Quiet beneath his cloak
Of shadow, hills and trees
Move in me, and the rivers
Flow down to the great seas.
Dark horseman of the night,
What wonders shall be born ?
For love, for life, for grief:
The rose, the leaf, the thorn.
N.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
The Cat .
Desire, like a cat in the night,
Slipping the chain of shade,
A streak.in the pastures of light
Lively, lamp-skimming strayed.
It left the rats to crawl
With strong mouths to the wall ;
Relentless, feline spear,
It found the darkness clear.
Free of the stagnant room,
The moths that beat distrait
Bruising their bodies’ bloom,
My dreamers congregate.
Water, like muscled skin,
The stars’ eternal grin:
Oh, let all seekers find
In the long cat-walks of the
mind.
N.Z.
J. CAMERON SMITH.


Here’s Your ROILS
A LIGHT FOR LIFE!
The coveted Rolls, depend-
able automatic lighter with its
own built-in windguard, its ex-
tra fuel capacity and spare
flint recess. Five year guaran-
tee. In chromium 39/6, also
in rhodium and gold.
Distributed by
WILCOX MOFFUN LTD.
_ rolls to woß^
FONDE OT* EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
IS
Sl*
ensign
ranger
fii'is'e
WSIGH
fUI'VUE
£&'»'•
p\)^^
s? IC\W-
Kodak
west*
W.
U* l
£
vfH
SIX-20
fOlO'Nk
6RO»l«J l
il'» 7
fa
&/
<
Kodak Pealed Everywhere
KODAK (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD. Branches in all States
Pricen gubject to
alteration without notice *
THE GIFT
THAT KEEPS ON GIVING
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Bulletin staff man, wife, no chil-
dren, wants s.c. flat, house, Sydney.
-4742.
To buy 2 vols. of Boxall’s Aus-
tralian Bushrangers. —4743,
To buy Speed Graphic camera. —
4744.
To contact someone breeding bull-
dogs near Sydney.—474s.
Information Sought.
(1) From whom did Ike Williams
win the world's lightweight champion-
ship, and has he ever fought Freddie
Dawson, who defeated Vic Patrick in
Sydney ? (2) Where was Williams
born, and what is his nationality?
The United States National Boxing
Alliance recognised Ike Williams as
world lightweight champion when he
k.o.’d Juan Zurita on April 18, 1945.
He received international recognition
as world champion after stopping Bob
Montgomery on August 4, 1947.
Williams first k.o.’d Freddie Dawson
at Philadelphia on September 19,
1944, and has twice knocked him out
since then. (2) Williams was born at
Brunswick, Georgia, on August 2,
1923, and is an American negro.
♦ * * *
What world boxing championships
did Bob Fitzsimmons win?
Bob Fitzsimmons won the world’s
middleweight, light-heavyweight and
heavyweight, championships, but he
never held more than one title at any
time. After winning the middleweight
honors from '‘Nonpareil” Jack Demp-
sey at New Orleans on January 14,
1891, Fitzsimmons relinquished them
to win the heavyweight championship
from James J, Corbett at Carson
City, Nevada, on March 17, 1897.
Fitzsimmons won the light-heavy-
weight championship from George
Gardner at San Francisco on Novem-
ber 4, 1903.
* ♦ * *
Method of constructing a home-
made barometer?
Obtain tube 33in. long which is
sealed at one end and thoroughly
clean and dry inside. Introduce the
clean mercury by means of a tapered
glass-tube, the small end of which
has a considerably smaller diameter
than the inside bore.of the barometer
tube. When filled,/invert and heat in
a sand-tray to expel air or water-
vapor, then immerse open end in
cistern of mercury, bring the tube to
a perpendicular position and clamp
on stand to keep the whole perfectly
rigid. Calibrate in inches, subdivided
in tenths at the upper end.
♦ ♦ * «
Where in London is Grub-street,
and how did the name become asso-
ciated with struggling writers ?
Grub-street, now called Milton-
street in honor of the poet, whose
home was near it, was famous in the
seventeenth century for the reason
given by Dr. Johnson’s definition in
his dictionary: “Originally the name
of a street near Moonfields, in
London, much inhabited by writers
of small histories, dictionaries and
temporary poems, whence any mean
production is called Grub-street.”
* * ♦ *
(1) How to make perfume from
flowers? (2) Where to obtain detailed
information ?
(1) The flowers must be placed
between layers of high-grade lard for
a period. The lard is then treated
with rectified spirit of wine, which
has the property of extracting the
perfume from the fat. The process is
repeated until the alcohol contains
sufficient of the perfume for use.
Another process involves the use of
glycerine. (2) From the Curator, Syd-
ney Technological Museum, Ultimo.
* * * *
Early history of iron?
As very few implements of iron or
steel survive for many years before
rusting away, there is little evidence;
nevertheless, the antiquity of iron-
smelting is great. An iron blade,
probably 5000 years old, was found
in one of the Egyptian pyramids.
It can be plausibly maintained, even
without this evidence, that the Egyp-
tians must have had skilled steel-
workers to build such pyramids, or
to cut hieroglyphics in the hardest
rocks. Steel-hardening, an advanced
stage in the art requiring centuries to
reach, was common in Greece 3000
years ago, and is mentioned in
Homer. Whether the first tools were
made from meteorites or from the
iron found in the ashes of some tire
built near red “paint-rock” is a
question still thrashed about by
geologists, but it is fairly certain that
its first intentional production was in
fires exposed to prevailing winds, and
later in rock furnaces where the fires
were fanned by bellows, possibly the
earliest mechanical device.
Brief Answers.
A.T.: Photophobia is an abnormal
intolerance of light; extreme cases are
unable to keep eyes open except in
darkness or very dim light... .D.R.:
If a quitted trick has more than four
cards the decision as to which card
was included in error rests with the
opponents of the player whose hand
is a card short. The card is restored
to the player, and he is deemed to
have held it and is responsible for
any revoke.... C.A.: White mice
should be kept in couples or groups.
They will not thrive alone F.S.:
The “latent image” is the invisible
picture impressed on the silver salts
in the film emulsion S.G.: Arbor
Day was first adopted in Nebraska.
... .P.McD.: The Oxford English Dic-
tionary labels “leastwise” as a "some-
what rare form,” and “leastways”
as “dialectal and vulgar” Tas-
wegian: (1) Under the Registration
of Firms Act (1899) all firms, partner-
ships or individuals carrying on a
business under a firm name, which
does not consist of the full or usual
names of all the partners, must be
registered. (2) In Tasmania cost of
registration of a company with
nominal capital not over £2OOO is
£2 F.T.R.: French Somaliland
joined the Allies on December 29,
1942 R.R.: In that cool climate a
succession of peas may still be sown,
but pick a type not too fond of winter.
S.T.: In a day-to-day loan, money
is borrowed for a day at a specific
rate of interest, the loan being renew-
able from day to day by mutual
agreement L.L.: If the dog is
too long in the body for show pur-
poses he can be made to look shorter
by carrying extra weight. It’s an
old trick to judges, though, and
will shorten the life of the dog.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
P.R.L.-B.: Can’t let you rocket
into our space D.C.: Grimmer
than Chifley... .A.T.Q.: “Scraggie”
scrapped 1.T.: Even “The Courts
of Justice” could hardly be more
involved... .G.S.: At any rate, there’s
another snake dead... .P.L.: Sorry
about returning the story of the
bibliomaniac who murdered the wife
who sold his books, but why pub-
licise a plot we may be put ting to
practice some day?.. •. J.McO.: “The
German Farmer” wasn’t quite clear
enough... .A.E.P.: As you say, t it
has its moments; but it runs on and
on for centuries... .E.8.E.: Nearly.
Bellerive: Lay your sprig of
rosemary;—
“Would you please give
me an honest opinion of these verses?
I am a native of Scotland.” Hoots,
mon, then....W.R.: Can’t do any-
thing with “Pass It On” except pass
it on 5.A.8.: Analysed “Analysis
and found it full of solid sentiment
and solider sediment E.W.H.: ‘To
the land of my dreams my thoughts
oft take flight,” A harmless little
flutter R.A.: “In Terms of Wood”
is the closest yet..,.J.D.: There is
no such thing as the “Modern
Poetry” you attack so enthusiasm
tically H.H.: Spring poem spring-
ing back E.E.P.: Patriotically per-
fect; poetically piffling.. . .E.F.;
“Wheeling Destinies” bumps like a
wheelbarrow along the Milky Way.
D.F.M.: You woo Adelina in
such an outworn vocabulary....
Evelyn: Nevelyn.... W.R.: A pleas-
ing thought about the crow, but the
poem is about as pleasing as its
voice J.K.A.: Adds nothing to
the hundreds of other poems that
have been written on the same theme.
N.L.R.: Some underlying melody
that should be there isn’t....E.B.:
Say it on a ballot-paper.
Miss Florrib Ford.
A popular artist since
The days she was young.
Great favorites were
The songs she’d sung.
As time the destroyer
Passed over her head.
The once vaudeville star
Did number the dead.
She’d smiled and bowed
To applause and cheers
Till she neared the
Twilight of her years.


' -
■
7
■
iKE
01
QUICK
WORK
EAVIER
INCREASE THE EARNING
POWER OF YOUR MANPOWER
Sturdy, long-life, Lemeol Hand and Platform
Truck* are particularly fitted for the needs
of modern business. Their tough, all-steel
construction cuts the bills for maintenance
and replacement to the minimum. Lemeol
2-wheel Trucks are available in capacities
ranging from 200 lb. to 1,000 lb. These
compact light-weights of 200 lb. capa-
city weigh only 28 lb., and arc speci-
ally recommended as equipment ac-
companying motorised transport. The
Lemeol 4-wheel trucks are also all-steel,
but wooden decks can be supplied if
required. Write for illustrated litera-
ture to any of these distributors-
S.A.: Cornell Ltd.; Harris, Scarfe,
Ltd.; Industrial Truck fir Equipment
Co.; McPhersons Ltd.; Wm. Adams
b Co. Ltd.; Lemeol Sale* fir Service
Co. N.S.W.; J. C. LudoWlel fir Son
Ltd.; McPhersons Ltd.; Elisa Tins-
ley Pty. Ltd.; E. W. Cox; Power
Engineering Supplies Pty. Ltd.;
William Adams fir Co. Ltd. Vic.
and Tos.s J. C. Ludowfci fir Son
Ltd,; McPherson* Ltd.; Parrot
& Adams Pty. Ltd.; Etixa Tins-
ley Pty. Ltd.; Wm. Adams
& Co. Ltd. Q'sld.s Engineer-
ing Supply Co. of Aust.
Ltd.; ★ Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd.; ★ Hoey Fry Pty.
Ltd. W.A.: Atkins
Ltd., McPhersons,
Ltd.; Wm. Adams
& Co. Ltd.
ir Wheels and
Casters only.
• "LEMCOL” THE NAME THAT CARRIES WEIGHT!
LHI9
sd
i A M'iUf ACTUftHD BY 4PAC INDUSTRIES LIMITED (INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT DIVISION?, FINSBURY, STH. AUST.
11l
S 3
— 'GM
*s
sa»a».
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
dd~fibt experiment with imitation*
C BRANDAUEB & CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM. Eftt
Mr Tolputt's Rose Bushes
BY M.G. VINCENT
WHEN timid Mrs. Hopkins
heard that Mr. Tolputt
was not at all satisfied
with the highest bid re-
ceived for his house, and was
therefore digging out all his
shrubs, bulbs and rose-bushes to
sell privately, she left her home
in its Friday-morning turmoil
and hurried down to Tolputt’s at
once, so that she would not have
time to change her mind or ask
her husband’s advice.
She was planting the last of
the twenty rose-bushes when Mr.
Hopkins arrived home for his
lunch. There was a triumphant
happiness about her which im-
pressed Mr. Hopkins con-
siderably. She was always so
anxious to please that at last
she had become a flurried
Beatrix Potter mouse, without
time or desire to indulge her
own caprices; so now he stood
for a few moments regarding
with astonishment her energetic
pattings and stampings, puffing
all the time so zestfully at his
pipe that soon he was sur-
rounded by a pungent cloud.
“For years and years I’ve
envied him those roses, and
now here they are! ” she panted.
Obviously she was bemused with
elation.
“What roses are they, Em?”
inquired her husband, frowning
at the row of seemingly lifeless
bushes.
“Tolputt’s. As soon as I
heard he was digging up every-
thing he could, I went straight
down. And now here they are!
I’ll just get you a light lunch,
dear; I haven’t had time to do
anything much in the house, but
a snack won’t hurt you for
once, I suppose, will it, dear?”
“Why didn’t you ring me up?
I could have got them for you.
The old skinflint probably drove
a very hard bargain with you.
What did you pay him?” For
a few seconds she hesitated;
then she said firmly, blushing
vividly, “Ten pounds.” She hur-
ried into the house to escape
further questioning.
Mr. Hopkins thoughtfully
surveyed the twenty rose-bushes.
He soon forgot about her ob-
vious lie, as he had come to
the exciting conclusion that the
bushes needed pruning. With
the exception of playing golf
and bridge, and criticising at
length the iniquitous Labor
Governments, there was nothing
he enjoyed more than pruning.
During the past weekend he
had pruned the fruit-trees, the
ten ornamental shrubs and the
one almond-tree (this last-men-
tioned in spite of his wife’s
tremulous protestations), the
two creepers and the rambling-
roses. This sudden acquisition
of twenty rose-bushes, all of
them obviously crying out for
the pruning-shears, filled him
with a delicious pleasure. He
felt an urge to hasten to the
tool-house for the shears with-
out delay; but like a child
savoring piquant anticipation,
he decided to keep this windfall
till the cool of the evening,
when he would have time to
linger over it and do it every
justice.
AS he rose from the lunch-
table, the thought flashed
into his mind that perhaps some
“bounder” might “get in before
him,” so he said casually to his
wife, “I’ll come home a bit early
and prune those rose-bushes
for you.”
Instantly she became appre-
hensive. She thought a moment
before she replied.
“Well, that’s very nice of you,
dear, but isn’t it your Historical
Society night tonight? And —I
did think of getting Mr. Stevens
to do them. He’s an expert, you
know. Mr. Tolputt suggested I
should get him, Mr. Tolputt
would have done them, but he’s
been so busy with his moving.”
Mr. Hopkins looked most
annoyed. As he was a tall,
well-built man in his early fifties,
with all the assured dignity that
an intelligent, prosperous man
can command when he is
materially assisted by a hand-
some face and a head of lus-
trous white hair, he became
overpoweringly regal when his
displeasure was aroused. He
regarded his wife with disdain,
and said in his best board-
meeting voice, “Do you infer
that I am not capable of pruning
a rose-bush, my good woman?”
As this was precisely what
Mrs. Hopkins did think, she
hastened to deny it,
“Oh, no, dear. Not at all.
I just thought it would save you
the trouble. After all, you’re so
busy. I mean, there’s your
business, and then there’s all
that historical work, and golf.
I just thought Mr. Stevens —well,
I thought Mr. Stevens could
save you the bother.”
“Mr. Stevens,” said her hus-
band, “is in hospital with a
troublesome appendix. But of
course,” he added in a de-
liberately off-hand tone, “if you
prefer to wait for him, do so.
Personally I think his gardening
prowess is overrated ; and he’s
a melodramatic, pompous ass,
in any case.”
In spite of these remarks
Mrs. Hopkins was not in the
least surprised to see her hus-
band stroll home from the
office at 4.30, an unusually early
hour. She bore up bravely, and
did not even flinch when he
casually announced that he
would “just give the roses a
perfunctory glance.” After many
years of life with her imperious
husband and two imperious
children she had learned to
accept the inevitable cheerfully.
“Very well, dear,” she said,
and shut herself up in the sew-
ing-room so that she could not
hear the ominous snipping of
the untiring shears. When she
was taken out to admire his
handiwork, her only thought
was; “Well, they’re wonderfully
hardy, and if I beat him to it
next year they’ll soon get over
it.”
HER son Joseph was of a
different opinion when he
dropped in for a few moments
the following day.
“Who’s been butchering those
rose-bushes —the ones that have
suddenly sprung up down the
side fence? The old man been
at ’em?”
Like all mothers, she had a
somewhat rosy conception of
her son’s capability, and her re-
ception of his remark was there-
fore respectful.
“Oh, dear, they’re not that
bad, are they?”
“Sure are. Where’d you get
’em?”
“Tolputt’s.”
“That tight old Jew! Bet he
slugged you. What’d you fork
out for ’em?”
She fluttered her hands, and at
last said faintly, “Well, don’t tell
your father, dear, but I paid—
nearly—about £l5 for them.”
She hastened to the long rose-
bed, and peered at the bushes
anxiously. “I haven’t my read-
ing-glasses on, of course, and I
can’t...”
“Don’t be so daft, Ma. You
can see well enough to know
they’re a damn sight. It beats
me why you let the old man get
at ’em.”
“Joseph, you know very well
I can’t stop your father when he
sets his mind on a thing.”
“Well, X haven’t time now, but
I’ll be round tomorrow while he’s
at golf, and I’ll try and trim
them up a bit for you.”
Feeling sure that the bushes
had already lost too much, she
said hesitantly, “That’s very nice
of you, Joey, but don’t you
think?”
“Now, Ma, you can’t have
them left in that hideous state.
I’ll just trim them up a bit.”
GOOD as his word, he turned
up the next day in his most
dilapidated shorts and his old
Tank Corps beret. The beret
stirred up all the memories of
war-time hysteria, and she stifled
the protests which she had hoped
to make. Instead, she accom-
panied him to the bed, and all
the time he pruned she hopped
about and twittered like a
swallow watching the destruction
of its nest.
“Oh, that’s enough off that
one, Joey.”—“Oh, Joe, dear!
Don’t you think that one’s all
right as it is?” —“Oh, no more,
darling! There’ll be nothing
left.”
At last the repruning was
concluded. “There you are
now,” said Joseph happily, wav-
ing the shears. “That’s how a
rose-bush should be pruned.
Good Lord, don’t let him get at
them next year. Keep him away
from them.”
He glanced at his wrist-watch
and whistled.
“The time’s got away on me.
I’m supposed to be taking Chris
to her mother’s. Look, Mum,
would you mind sweeping up the
debris? I’ll have to hotfoot it
home. Cheerio.”
He put the shears into her
hands, and the next moment had
(Continued on page 30.)


SINCE 1847
WINES
GOOD FOR MORE
THAN A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Peter Fraser, politically floored by that
Right Hook of Holland, now occupies
the No. 2 corner in the N.Z. arena.
J, H. Julin, lieutenant of the Kaiser’s
war, with M.C. and Bar, is in the bull-
ring again, this time as an Independent
candidate for the Queensland Senate.
Since his first shot at politics in 1943 —
target missed —Julin has worked full-time
on uncovering and working the Callide
opencut, of which he’s field-director,
baring a coal deposit 50 to 60 feet thick.
In face of plenty of opposition, he has
put the Callide field on the map—daily
output is now over 500 tons of first-
quality furnace coal. A surveyor by pro-
fession, as a student he was a runner-up
for a Queensland Rhodes Scholarship.
As indicated by Heth, there is none of
the long-hair about this author —left out
through some lack of space are the barrel
chest and bulging biceps of the rest of
Tom Hungerford, ex-commando, and
winner, with his Sowers of the Wind, of
Sydney “Herald’s” latest novel competi-
tion. Having just put to bed this year’s
Australian War Memorial annual, “As
You Were,” Hungerford is back home
holidaying in W.A. Now 34, he cut his
HUSKY HUNGERFORD.
journalistic teeth on Perth “Daily News,”
interrupted that to sign-on in 1941, and
soldiered for the rest of the war, a good
part of it on Pacific islands, which offered
his observant eye the material for those
first-class war yarns of his that appeared
in The Bulletin. A publisher is looking
over another of his novels, this one deal-
ing with fighting on Bougainville and
associated hotspots.
In her second executive officer since
she first tasted salt, carrier Sydney gets a
man who knows a thing or two about
flat-tops Commander Victor Smith,
D.S.C., R.A.N., at present Naval Staff
Officer (Air) at Australia House, London,
and, during the Hitler disturbance,
observer in the much-sunk carrier Ark
Royal. Getting his observer experience
in carrier Glorious, he transhipped to
Ark Royal the month war broke out, left
her for a period ashore at the R.N. Air
Station at Halston (from where the naval
planes had their crack at Scharnhorst)
and was back in Ark Royal for the latter
half of 1941. His part in the ship’s
hectic fighting life brought him his D.S.C.
Cruiser Canberra was his next address,
and he was with her when Jap torpedoes
and shells caught her off Savo Island. He
had more cruiser time in Shropshire,
before reaching England again in time
to join the staff of the Flag Officer,
British Assault Area, for the Normandy
landing. After the cease-fire he had much
to do with planning our naval aviation,
before the Australia House appointment
—his new post will give him plenty of
opportunity to see it in practice.
Lieutenant-Governor Frank Arthur
Cooper, who has passed on in Brisbane,
was a N. S. Welshman who played many
parts in his 77 years; among them, head
clerk in a church office, employee of a
big engineering concern, freelance jour-
nalist and Labor official. Settling in
Queensland in 1912, he soon made his
mark as a Labor organiser, and three
years later was returned to the Assembly
for Bremer, which seat he held continu-
ously for 31 years. A keen and experi-
enced debater, he went on from the
Ministership for Education to Premier in
1942, and finally Lieutenant-Governor
four years later.
Sir Leslie Orme Wilson, who relin-
quished the Northern State’s Governor-
ship the same year Frank Cooper took
on his lieutenancy, is returning to Queens-
land on a six-weeks’ holiday. Governor
for 14 years, and before that head serang
of Bombay, Sir Leslie was one of the
best-liked of this country’s gubernatorial
circle, and it’s not expected his return
visit will be a lonely one.
The 40-hour week must seem a distant
dream to William P. Carr, production
manager of the National Theatre Move-
ment in Melbourne, which has just con-
cluded a season of drama, ballet and
opera at the Princess, while comedy,
Greek tragedy, G. B. Shaw plays and
others have been in continuous session at
the Eastern Hill theatre. Never seen to
be in a hurry, Carr has had a finger in
most of these pies, at the same time pre-
paring Christmas fare for the Princess
in the shape of “The Glass Slipper,” the
Robert Donat version of the Farjeon-
Clifton Parker musical fantasy of 1944,
with its 22 songs, ballet and 12 scenes.
The amazingly prolific producer was in
charge of the morning sessions of “Peter
Pan” at the Tivoli when Gertrude John-
son picked him for the purposes of the
National Theatre. He is off to England
in 1950 to study modern English methods
of production.
Professor N. E. Odell, taking over as
temporary head of the Geological De-
partment of Otago University (M.L.), is
a seasoned alpinist. He was of the party
which made the attempt on Everest in
1924, when George Mallory and Lindsay
Irvine perished. Odell saw them climb-
ing ahead at 26,000 ft., and believes they
made the summit; they were going well
when mist descended and shut them out
for ever. He himself had another shot
with the 1938 expedition. In his new job
replacing Professor Benson, who retires
this year, Odell has been an extension-
lecturer of Cambridge, where he gained
his Ph.D. in geology and geomorphology.
He also holds the Livingstone Gold
Medal of the Scottish Geographical
Society,
Charles Pearcy Mountford brought his
benign and weather-burned visage into
The Bulletin a day or so after he had
landed back from poking it into the remote
caves of Arnhem Land, where artists
of a forgotten civilisation offered to this
expert about the only trace of their exist-
ence left on earth. Where the smooth
face of the flood-plain broke and soared
in piled-up rocky confusion to the plateau
edging western Arnhem Land, he found
a huge cave, overhung for 60ft. by a
smooth canopy, and backed inside by a
perfect natural gallery of curved, vertical
sandstone, on which the long-dead artists
had spread themselves. As well, 25ft.
above ground, under the lip of the over-
hang, waited another ochred painting
for explanation. The local abos believed
the tall, thin spirits of the lost race had
perpetrated it; going by its inaccessibility,
Mountford was inclined to agree. One
of the group of South Australians who
have done most to preserve knowledge
of Binghi, Mountfyrd, himself an artist,
recently led an expedition under the
auspices of the National Geographic
Society up into the wild land for fresh
Territorian material —he is the first Aus-
tralian to be invited to head an American
scientific expedition. Now rising 60, he
feels like leaving further contact with the
Territory to younger legs.
Sixty-one replaces 39 in Queensland s
Commissionership of Irrigation and
Water Supply, W. H. R. Nimmo taking
over from T. A. Lang, who has left for
bigger things in the Snowy scheme.
Nimmo’s qualifications include 40 years
of practical engineering experience in
Canada, the U.S. and India. At one time
boss-engineer of the Stanley River Works
Board, he has lately been applying his
know-how to the Burdekin Valley scheme.
When the Final Curtain fell on Tom
Walls last week, it closed an effervescent
act which since 1905 had shaken the
solemnity of theatre and film audiences
throughout the English-speaking world.
Most Australian dailies in their cables
implied that, but for his appreciation of
the winner “Tons of Money, Walls
“might have remained a ‘busker’ for the
rest of his life.” But “Tons of Money”
was produced in 1922, and as early as
1910 Bulletin Showmen had testified
that Walls already had a claim to comic
excellence. Of him, when the Arcadians
opened in Melbourne in March, 1910,
Edmund Fisher forecast: “Melbourne
will talk of Peter Doody (Tom Walls) as
time rolls on.” Prediction was right, in
July the “Arcadians” shifted to Sydney
Criterion, when the local Showman com-
mented :
And there is Doody, «the jockey, por-
trayed by Tom Walls. Doody is one of
the queerest stage-creations the writer has
seen. He suggests a wowser divine, who,
having reaped his whiskers and donned
fancy dress, has gone melancholy mad.
He is easily the success of the show on its
humorous side.
That show was so successful it played
for weeks in Sydney, dropped down again
to Melbourne for a “survival” (as the
programmes neatly put it) and returned
for another season in Sydney, where “it
continued to draw the populace with 700
horse-power.” Walls played in “Miss
Hook of Holland” before returning home,
and (far from busking) was continuously
in laughing action on the London stage
until, with Leslie Henson, in 1922, he
became actor-manager of the well-named
two-year runner, “Tons of Money.” He
was 66 at the end.
When Sidney George Holland contested
the 1943 Maoriland elections the result
was so near a thing that Peter Fraser des-
pondently declared to a Willis-street
(Wellington) crowd at 11.30 on polling
night: “A change of Government seems
imminent.” The soldiers’ vote saved the
Socialists’ bacon ; four Maoris were the
THE WINNER.
saviors next time ; here sketched is the
man who landed it for the Nationalists
this time. Serious-faced and a fighter,
the new Prime Minister is New Zealand-
born, an Anzac and a first-class platform
figure. He’s managed a large M.L.
engineering firm for years, and, also, the
N.Z. hockey team which visited Aus-
tralia in 1932,
Here presented, medico Hugh Johnson,
cool, collected, temperate of habit, a
keen gardener, fisherman, and, generally
speaking, a quiet and unassuming chap—
until nationalisation of doctors is raised,
when the Irish-Australian in him fairly
explodes. Surgeon by profession and
soldier by instinct, the young doc. was
one of the first away from the barrier in
1939, and with the 6th Division, 2nd
Ambulance, paid his respects to Beng-
hazi, Syria, Greece and Crete, and later
SURGEON-SOLDIER.
to India and Borneo. The ending found
him Lieut.-Colonel, C.O. 2/ 13th Field
Ambulance, a unit formed by himself
and, to use his own words, “the best
bunch of farmers, woodcutters, miners
and wharfies that ever tended the sick.”
Detesting war, but realising the dangers
ahead, Johnson fills in his spare-time still
soldiering on as C.O. 6th Field Ambu-
lance. He practises medicine in Mel-
bourne, and, as well —under the inspira-
tion of his young artist-wife —painting.
Visiting his native Maoriland, Dr.
C. E. Moloney, one-time of Dunedin, now
consulting surgeon at Radcliffe Infirmary,
Oxford, where the distinguished Aus-
tralian Sir Hugh Cairns is neuro-
surgeon. Associated with the institution
are several other Maorilanders —Professor
Macintosh, Chair of Anaesthetics; John
Stallworthy, noted gynaecologist; and the
assistant-surgeon, W. Hawkesworth. Dr.
Moloney is not enamoured of the State
medicine scheme in Britain. Great
numbers still prefer to pay and receive
better attention from their own medicos.
He instances one abuse —the free pro-
vision of State corsets. These were meant
for women with surgical weaknesses, but
medicos are so snowed under with
demands for the free issue that it is
feared many doctors would shortly be
more interested in straitjackets—for
themselves.
Into the Silence:
In Geelong, at 71, Mendel Finkelstein,
brother of Phil (who was J.C.W. publicity man
in Melbourne for years and the youngest special
correspondent with King George V and Queen
Mary on their Australian tour). A pioneer of
Australian films, Mendel founded, in Adelaide,
the old Wondergraph Pictures Co., and was still
in the film field —managing a large Geelong
theatre —to within a few months of the end.
At Blackheath (N.S.W.), at 58, Dr. R. W.
Richards, winner of the King’s Prize for rifle-
shooting in 1912 and one of “Kitchener’s
Hundred” Dominion medicoes who doctored
the B.E.F. in France. He practised at Black-
heath for about 20 years, and kept his eye in
focus in gun-sights to the last.
In Adelaide, at 69, Arthur Montague Webster,
for 13 years S. Australian manager of Mac-
donald, Hamilton, and, with a tally of 52 years’
service, one of the oldest members of that firm.
He was bom in Queensland, where his father
was a prominent medico; his grandfather was
the first president of the Royal College of
Surgeons.
At West Maitland (N.S.W.), at 79, James
Leslie Williams, C.M.G., M.8.E., who entered
the Public Service at 14 and ended as chairman
of the Board. Night-work brought him his
8.A.; he was called to the Bar in 1902. A
gunner in World War I, he got his captaincy
within a year and came out with M.B.E. and
a “mention.”
In Wellington (M.L.), at 73, Major P. de B.
Brandon, member of a pioneer family of that
city. He fought in the Boer War and.had a
second round in the next.


Introducing
A Good Australian
MR. P. R. GRACE
One of Labor's Senate Team
A great advocate of the rights of the people.
A great supporter of the fullest development of all Australia’s
resources, particularly in inland centres.
An outstanding practical authority on agricultural, pastoral
and horticultural primary industries, and is a member of the
Land Board.
“THE DAILY ADVERTISER”
“Mr. Grace has been associated with
the Labor Movement for the past thirty
years. He is a Director of the South-West
Co-operative Meat Company, and is a
member of Land Boards. He has been a
Livestock Salesman, Stock and Station
(Wagga), January 26, 1949.
Agent, and Auctioneer since 1920, and has
travelled widely throughout the Common-
wealth. Mr. Grace was one of the
pioneers of the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
Area, and has been closely associated with
its development and progress.”
Authorised by 6. J. Washington, 7 Grevillia Street, Leeton.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
CUARD
yoMth'Cl'
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable for every type of business it record*
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for lull detail*
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agent* —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
c Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd
Norman Bro*. Ptjr, Ltd.
Vardon i Sovb Ltd
»*4f» ©•»
SUNDRY SHOWS
Having had so many com-
mendatory reports from so many
people who had seen “Okla-
homa ! ” in other parts, this com-
mentator went along to Sydney
Royal on the opening night half
expecting to find an empty
theatre, there being no one left
who hadn’t seen the piece. Not
so, apparently. A half-starved
cat couldn’t have flattened its
way through the crush in the
foyer, and even Mr. McGirr
couldn’t have found room for a
Cabinet Minister in the theatre
itself. And it seemed, from the
slightly - delirious enthusiasm
with which the audience greeted
the show, that all of them were
enjoying it for the first time,
and enjoying it immensely.
And why shouldn’t they? It
has all the necessary ingredients
—a great splash of color, a
musicomedy romance, a fair
ration of pleasant comedy and,
in particular, a dozen or so'very
catching ditties, almost any one
of which is better than the best
of what is commonly served out
these days under the vague head-
ing of “popular songs”—plus a
few extra, including a strikingly
interpretative ballet sequence;
dancing with humor and drama
and a wealth of expression in it,
dancing, in fact, which might
almost be described as a very
healthy, uninhibited and promis-
ing offshoot from classical ballet
and which could be studied by
Australian experimenters.
The ballet, nicely planted at
the end of the first act, serves
a secondary and very useful
purpose—at least it did on the
opening night. The first scene
of the act is rather long—the
tuneful abundance of the show
gives the cast seven songs to
unload in this scene, opening
very nicely and happily with
“Oh! What a Beautiful
Mornin’,” diving straight into
the delightful “The Surrey with
the Fringe on the Top” and run-
ning on through several other
good ’uns. Catching as the
songs are, however, there is a
noticeable sag in the proceedings
before the end of the scene, a
fault, it seems, which could only
be overcome by more force of
personality from the players.
The second scene, brief, musical
and comic as it is, doesn’t quite
pull the sag out of the act, but
the third scene with the ballet
immediately snaps the show right
to the very top, from where it
rarely falters for the rest of the
night.
In the few minutes allotted
them the dancers—Strelsa Heckel-
man, Matt Mattox and Vassilie
Trunoff in the main roles and
Patricia Holland and Joyce
Taylor giving them excellent
support—dramatise the whole
story of the piece admirably. The
rest of the cast, without giving
any evidence of outstanding
musical or histrionic talents,
measure up to the requirements
of musical comedy in supplying
the atmosphere of a farming and
cattle-raising community 50
years ago and unfolding the
romance between the cowboy
and the girl, with a villain in the
form pf a brooding, perverted
farmhand who plasters the walls
of his room with pornographic
pictures—surely a hangover from
the “great American novel.”
Robert Reeves and Qarolyn
Adair in the leading parts have
light, agreeable personalities and
equally light, agreeable voices.
Louise Barnhart as the girl “who
can’t say no” provides a measure
of wild comedy, and William
Redd Knight does likewise as
the cowboy who tries to make
her say “no” to everyone except
himself. Robert Grandin is a
rather heavy villain as Jud Fry ;
and Harold Gary is the most im-
pressive personality in the piece
as Ali Hakim, the Persian pedlar
who philanders from village to
village and keeps just one step
ahead of matrimony until he is
finally persuaded into that state
by “the moonlight shining on the
barrels of her father’s shotgun.”
National Grand Opera.
The National Opera Co.
cantered to a finish at Mel-
bourne Princess with two widely
differing pieces—“Don Pasquale”
and “Tannhauser.” Wagner’s
vast symphonic structure taxed
the resources of the small
orchestra under Hans Zander’s
baton, but it gave a reasonably
sound performance, and the
solemn chant of the pilgrims
wove itself through the story in
a more-or-less equal contest with
the voluptuous strains of Venus.
The sensuousness of the music
in the first act wasn’t reflected
in the acting and the set-
ting, and the Venusberg hardly
looked like the couch for
a goddess, but the acting, the
singing and the spectacle warmed
up in the scene at the tournament
of music. Ronald Dowd gave a
thoroughly satisfying tenor to
the minstrel knight who oscillates
between Venus and Elizabeth’s
chaste bosom, and James Wilson
acquitted himself manfully as
Wolfram.
It was Eleanor Houston, how-
ever, who imported the truest
quality of Wagner into the pro-
ceedings. She was sweet, dig-
nified and tender, and her singing
was decorative. The choruses of
nobles, ladies, sirens, naiads,
nymphs, bacchantes and pilgrims
were full-throated. There were
weaknesses in the performance,
but the attempt was good enough
to justify the attack by this
young organisation on the higher
realms of opera.
Donizetti’s light, bustling
comedy of intrigue, with its in-
sistent melodiousness, incidental
lyrics and its bits of spoken
dialogue, was well within the
compass of a cast which included
Erjc Gormley, as the old
bachelor who is duped into a
mock marriage with the sweet
girl who turns out to be a ter-
magant of the first water, Robert
Simmons as Dr. Malatesta and
Barbara Wilson as Norina. Miss
Wilson gave indications of a
natural comedic talent.
"The Gondoliers."
Nobody has yet dared to
tamper with Gilbert and Sul-
livan, as they’ve done so freely
with poor old Shakspeare. The
production at Melbourne His
Majesty’s was so traditional that
it almost wrenched sobs of joy
from the breast of The Bulletin,
which made its first acquaintance
with the Duke of Plaza Toro
some time in the last century. It
was thought that Mr. Ivan
Menzies was doing a bit of tam-
pering when he alluded to “the
unusually wet season,” pointing
to the Grand Canal of Venice
depicted on the backcloth, but
it was in the text, and the refer-
ence to the recent Melbourne
weather was, as they say, only
coincidental.
All the business was as usual,
and if it hadn’t been the old
gentleman next to the present
commentator who was anticipat-
ing every bar of Sullivan’s
bright music with his fingers,
and every one of Mr. Menzies’s
skips and flourishes with his
facial expressions, would have
had an apoplectic seizure.
“The Gondoliers” had more
quality in the acting than the
singing, and there have been
better vocalisers of “Take a Pair
of Sparkling Eyes” than John
Dean, but he had to repeat the
pleasant ditty three times. The
voluminous Evelyn Gardiner is
a perfect Gilbertian actress, and
her unctuous contralto gave a
rich tone to the role of the
Duchess.
Most of the cast is new to
Australia. Richard Walker made
light work of the Grand In-
quisitor, and Helen Roberts was
a nimble Gianetta and supplied
her with a beautiful soprano.
Marjorie Eyre was an engaging
Tessa. J.C.W.’s clothes-
mistresses and scenic painters
surpassed themselves in the
second act in the pavilion of the
Palace of Barataria, date, 1750.
Ivan Menzies was, of course,
Ivan Menzies.
"The Marriage of
Figaro."
The N.S.W. Conservatorium
Opera School’s production at
Sydney Con. of this scintillating
combination of Da Ponte’s
clever libretto on the Beau-
marchais comedy and music in
Mozart’s liveliest and loveliest
vein was, by and large, a very
creditable effort. There were
naturally some defects: choruses
were at times ragged, and the
need for tightening of discipline
to avoid dragging half a beat
behind the conductor seems called
for. Also, the lighting in the
fourth act could have been
dimmer, the better to justify the
identification mix-up in the
chateau park which is the whole
core of the plot.
Generally, however, the spirit
of lighthearted intrigue and
gaiety was captured, and of par-
ticular merit was the singing of
the various concerted numbers —
here full justice was done to the
wonderful facility of the music
by effortless and well integrated
work by all the principals sing-
ing as if they really enjoyed it,
with confidence based on solid
preparation.
Some initial nervousness
threatened to mar the work of
Nerissa Niblo as the maid
Susanna; she overcame it
quickly to give a well-judged
piece of pertness, and to impart
a snap to her duets with the
Countess, the Letter Duet (“Song
to the Zephyr”) being particu-
larly well sung. Mollie Grouse
was suitably dignified as the un-
happy Countess, and her singing
of “Love, Thou Holy Impulse”
had the right air of yearning and
ardor. Rachel Neale’s Cherubino
was a captivating mixture of
cheek and precocity, and her
singing of “What Is This Feel-
ing?” (V'Oi Che Sapete ?), with its
delightful pizzicato accompani-
ment by the strings in simulation
of the Countess’s guitar, was
tuneful if rather light.
Ronal Jackson used his
powerful bass-baritone to good
effect throughout, and his com-
manding stage presence lent
verisimilitude to the role of the
profligate and blustering aristo.
William Diamond as the major-
domo Figaro was compelled to
pull his vocal punches because
of laryngitis, but he managed to
wring quite a respectable volume
of well-controlled tone out of
his gay and lilting admonition
to Cherubino, “Now Your Days
of' Philandering Are Over.”
Thelma Wilcox was the simper-
ing Marcellina and Don Patton
Dr. Bartolo, in make-up which
could have been less blotchily
heavy even for that old rake.
The orchestra responded to
Eugene Goossens’s feather-light
touch, and as a consequence the
ethereal-like quality of the music
was preserved. The production
was in the hands of Hilda Mul-
ligan, and the settings were by
William Constable.
* * * *
Melbourne had a repetition
of the exhilarating experience of
last year when 2000 choristers
from all over the State assembled
at the Town Hall to beef out
Handel’s “Messiah.” There
were no onlookers, as the notion
was to give as many devotees of
the oratorio as possible an op-
portunity of participating in a
performance with an orchestra,
which was supplied by the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra
under Joseph Post’s baton. That
that diminutive conductor wasn’t
completely flattened by the tons
of melody he aroused is a won-
der. The niceties and nuances
of Handel’s majestic opus
weren’t, of course, brought out,
but the tremendous climaxes
were, and some of them must
surely have reached the com-
poser’s ears in Heaven and
pleased him greatly. He was the
robust gentleman who used to
go into a London cafe, order
dishes for six persons and when
the astonished waiter asked him
when his guests were coming
would sit down and devour the
lot.
* * * *
Its official season well past, the
Queensland Symphony Orchestra
attracted only a small audience
to its “Serenade Concert.” 'The
orchestra, under John Farns-
worth Hall, was at its best in
Elgar’s “Serenade for Strings”
and Gustav Holst’s “Part Songs
for Girls’ Voices and String
Orchestra.” However, it achieved
no more than a routine perform-
ance of De Falla’s “Nights in the
Gardens of Spain,” which called
for much more vitality. In both
the Holst work and Faure’s
Pavane for Chorus and Orchestra
the Meistersingers Ladies’ Choir
admirably supplemented the
orchestra, which possibly, be-
cause of climate or merely a
heavy year, seemed a little weary.
Battarbee and
Namatjira.
Rex Battarbee, Albert Namat-
jira’s teacher, is back at Mel-
bourne Athenaeum with a fresh
batch of pictures from the
Centre. Included in the exhibi-
tion are portraits of Otto and
Reuben Pareroultja, abo. artists
who are treading in Albert’s
footsteps.
There are a dozen or so
more of them all busily en-
gaged in recording their im-
pressions of bottle-trees and
ghost-gums, the pink and purple
ranges, the inordinate rock
shapes, the hard bright sky and
the bitter light of the desert
spaces, and they all do it in the
same way, though there are a
few who are not wholehearted
acceptors of the Battarbee doc-
trine and produce a strange
amalgam of European conven-
tions and their ancestral tribal
patterns which suggest Van
Gogh or Matisse or Picasso,
though they have never heard of
those masters, let alone seen
their pictures even in reproduc-
tion.
Albert is now a station-
owner, has a bank account
and has attracted round him
upwards of 300 of his poor
relations, who take a deep per-
sonal interest in the success or
otherwise of his metropolitan
exhibitions, where his pictures
sell like hot cakes. He doesn’t
know he is world-famous and
he isn’t even dimly aware that
millions in Australia, England
and America have seen, per
medium of the films, his stocky
figure squatting at his easel in
the Never Never.
This placid, keen-sighted man
of the Stone Age, whom eminent
critics have acclaimed a genius
of the first water, can’t even
move from his present habitat
without a permit, and a paternal
committee keeps him ignorant
of the fact that Governor-
Generals have bought his pic-
tures and that an enterprising
Melbourne daily sent a special
envoy to fetch him down and
show him. Just as well, perhaps.
If he had the knowledge it
would probably unfocus him
completely. As it is, on the rare
occasions that he takes a train
ride, he humbly climbs with his
paints and brushes into the Jim
Crow car along with his fellow-
full-bloods, only half-castes
being permitted to travel with
white men in the Centre.
In his teacher’s work dis-
played at the Athenaeum the
facts of the Centre are all there
— the green of the vegeta-
tion, the red sand, the blood-
woods and the corkwoods—but
they are largely unrelated. They
are journalistic rather than
artistic. The artist’s job is to
establish a relation.


The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlercagb
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £60,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£9,500,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
(PX
'sf
t
BABY
LOVES
to revel in the delight-
ful creatn-liko lather of
Cuticura Soap* It
keeps his tender skin
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous i
trio—Cuticura Soap, I
Ointment and Tail- j
cum Powder.
fsd
■
After making his
new Australian film,
“Bitter Springs,’’ at
Quorn, S.A.
TOMMY
TBIMDTB
■
T
Q"'
Jot !
I* I m
mmm m
'JK
BJtLT.a.
c* 1f
Hii) 'V A
*■ 7 Jt»
"The Well-digger's
Daughter."
Since Sydney sees only a
selected handful of the best of
French films as against a few
hundred of the best, worst and
indifferent that Hollywood and
England make, it is probably un-
reasonable to compare the Con-
tinental jobs with the others, but
when French films like “Les
Enfants du Paradis,” “The
Baker’s Wife” and now, at
Sydney Savoy, “The Well-
digger’s Daughter” are offered
one after the other, it is impos-
sible not to develop a distinct
bias in their favor.
Where else in films will you
find such perfect observation and
recording of character and
human nature, all of it illumi-
nated with light, lively wit and
touched with irony and satire.
And where else are players and
filmsmiths working in such
harmony of appreciation of
what they are about?
“The Well-digger’s Daughter”
is, like “The Baker’s Wife,”
written, produced and directed
by Marcel Pagnol—both of
them, in their rich village settings,
their characters, their humor,
their earth and their sunlight
could have been written by
Maupassant or Gabriel Cheval-
lier —and also has two of the
main actors who figured in the
first film, the late Raimu and
Charpin. While enjoying both
films immensely, this commen-
tator preferred the earlier one
because its story —of the baker
being cuckolded, of the villagers
enjoying the incident tremen-
dously and only taking an active
interest in the affair when they
realise the poor old fellow
is too brokenhearted to bake
them any more of his excellent
bread —seemed to be richer in
Gallic wit and irony and to give
the players the greater dramatic
range, from the richest comedy
to, at least, the most touching
pathos, if not tragedy.
“The Well-digger’s Daughter”
is the story of an old widower
with half a dozen daughters to
care for. The oldest of them
dallies too carelessly with a
young aviator, the son of a hard-
ware merchant in the village,
and, after he has gone off to the
war, finds she is to have his
child. Her father takes her
along to the merchant and his
wife, but they will have none of
her until their son is reported
killed in action, whereupon they
develop an eager and pathetic
interest in the child as the only
link with their son. With some
concession to fiction or romance
the film brings the son back alive
and winds up the story to a con-
ventional happy ending, not that
that affects the quality of the
whole production, which lies in
the human, humorous observa-
tion of the characters and the
extraordinary quality of the.
acting.
Raimu, as the old well-digger,
is like an earthy old mole, full
of rough humor and affection
and yet giving at the same time
a remarkable impression of
tenderness and sensitivity. The
simple dignity of his scene with
the merchant; the drama when
he sends his daughter away to
have her child ; the comedy of
his claiming his grandchild or
bickering with the merchant over
the infant are all examples of
acting at its finest in every detail,
of acting as an art.
Fernandel, who plays the well-
digger’s apprentice and com-
petitor for the daughter’s hand,
is another rich comic, and Char-
pin as the merchant (the Mar-
quis in “The Baker’s Wife”) and
Line Noro as his wife (the wife
in “Pastoral Symphony”) give
excellent performances.
"Once a Jolly
Swagman. 11
Scene: Under the shade of a
coolibah-tree beside a billabong.
Us: “Have we the pleasure of
addressing the ghost of the jolly
swagman?”
The Wraith: “That’s me,
mate. But I never was jolly.
Never ’ad anything to be jolly
about. She was tough goin’ in
them days.”
Us: “Very interesting. But
we really called to ask you about
a film made by Mr. J. Arthur
Rank, in England, and now be-
ing shown at Sydney Civic. It’s
called ‘Once A Jolly Swagman,’
but for the life of us we can’t
find any connection between the
film and yourself.”
W.: “Don’t let that worry you,
mate. Look what they said
about me —sang as I watched
and waited while me billy boiled.
Never did sing; can’t; always
played a mouth-organ. An’ I
never hung around doin’ nothin’
while the billy boiled. Always
unrolled me swag and got me
tucker ready.”
Us: “Remarkable. But about
this film. There is one minor
character in it who is supposed
to come from Australia. But
he rides motor-bikes on the dirt-
track, loses his nerve and returns
to Australia to go sheep-farming,
as they say in the film.”
W.: “Sheep-what?”
Us: “Sheep-farming is the
term they use.”
W.: “ ’Strewth! No, that
wasn’t me. Never ’ad anything
to do with motor-bikes. Might’ve
been Mulga Bill. ’E bought one
once and rode it straight into
Dead Man’s Creek. Silly cow
should’ve stuck to horses. Still,
it just shows y’ can’t trust no
one. Which reminds me, I never
ever sang ‘Who’ll Come a-Waltz-
in’ Matilda with Me?’ Rather
be on me own any time.”
Us: “Your history certainly is
interesting. But this film again.
It’s all about dirt-track riders,
one of whom starts out as a
youngster and becomes the idol
of the track. Doesn’t sound like
you, does it?”
W.: “Cripes, no. But they’ll
tell you anything about me.
That sheep they reckon I
pinched. It was an ’alf-starved
wether bogged in the waterhole
an’ it’d been dead a coupia
hours before I touched it.”
Us: “Yes, you do seem to
have been maligned. But the
film. This young chap who be-
comes the star of the track gets
very browned-off because he
thinks the riders don’t get
enough of the profits while the
promoters wax fat for doing
nothing,”
W.: “That might be true.
Take O’Lennon, the squatter
who brought the troopers (two
of ’em; not three) to try an’
nab me for swipin’ his sheep.
He’d take anyone down soon as
look at ’em. Tight, too. He
never rode no thoroughbred—a
brumby was the best ’e ever ’ad.”
Us: “Amazing ;we must talk
about yourself some time. Now
the young fellow in the film tries
to organise a union for motor-
bike riders but nobody will help
him, so his scheme falls
through.”
W.: “A pity. There should
be a union for swagmen. Then
1 wouldn’t ’ve been treated the
way I was. ‘Sprang into the
billabong’ me eye. There was
only six inches of water in it,
anyway. I’ll tell y’ what
’appened to me, mate.”
Us: “Yes, we’d like to hear
it, but let’s get it straight about
this young fellow in the film.
He’s also got a wife who doesn’t
like him tearing-up the cinders
and risking his neck every night,
and who also thinks success is
going to his head and making
him hard to live with.”
W.: “I never risked me neck.
.O’Lennon an’ them two
troopers wanted to get me, an’
when they saw they ’ad nothin’
on me they crowded in an’ one
of ’em crowned me with a
stirrup-iron. Then they chucked
me in the mud an’ went back
an’ said I drowned meself.”
Us; “Good heavens! You
have our deepest sympathy. But
this young fellow in the film.
Just as he is becoming abso-
lutely unbearable war is declared,
he enlists, sees the show out and
returns to civvies to give .up
bike-riding and settle down to
being a good husband and run-
ning a garage. Now is there, by
any chance that we can’t see,
any connection between that
story and yourself?”
W.; “No, mate. None at all.”
Us: “Thank you very much.
That’s what we thought.”
W.: “Don’t mention it, mate.
Just remember 1 didn’t jump. I
was crowned and chucked in.
You go back and print that in
your Bullenteen.”
•Tulsa."
The oilwells, the small herd
of Poll Herefords, and Pedro
Armendariz, all of whom are
blameless in their acting, could,
alone, have told the story of this
Eagle-Lion picture very well.
Although his part is a step down
for Armendariz, he handles it
with remarkable tenderness, as
though it might break, as it
easily could. He is an educated
American Indian and owns his
own holding of fine grass coun-
try and a prize herd. He is
called upon, when the oil-
derricks rise about him and their
waste overflow seeps down to his
water-holes and poisons his
stock, to take on the look of the
last of the Mohicans and to
present all the required emotions
as quiet resignation bubbles up
to hatred. And he does it, too,
with not a breath out of place.
Addicts are familiar with most
aspects of the-sinister-influence-
of-white-man’s-greed as applied
to the West, but this cattle-v.-oil
information shows new ground.
With the bad example of one or
two prairie cities that once grew
fine grass, found oil, pumped it
like mad until there was no
more oil and the land was so
poisoned that no grass would
grow again, the authorities put
their foot down about the time
Tulsa appeared on the oil-map.
In the film, Susan Hayward
starts out in cattle, but when her
father is killed by a falling
derrick while cussing at some no-
good oil-men on the next block
she apparently decides that there
might be something in this oil
stuff after all, sinks a well, and
you know what. Later, when
she’s the richest lady in the
State, she forms a partnership
with the oil-king—who looks
as though he could do with a
dose of it, Lloyd Gough. It goes
to her head, and, wanting more
she bungs up a few more derricks
on the land of her old friend
Pedro by means of some sort of
lease, despite the fact that she
has promised that she wouldn’t
and knows how he loves her
and his cows. Pedro turns
pyromaniac and creates a techni-
color oilfield fire, remarkable by
any standards.
Last scene of all and Susan
sees how wicked she’s been, and,
with only a million or so now
coming in a week, is penitent and
vows in future to see that the
cattle are safe. Preston Foster
is also in the film busily letting
off the oilwells.
"Dear Wife."
The late W. C. Fields was
once accused of lacing a screen-
child’s lunch-time milk with
gin. They said it was because
the infant, his co-star in the pic-
ture, had been stealing the lime-
light and Fields was jealous. He
admitted to the deed, but not the
motive, and anyone who has
seen a few of these child actors
must realise that Fields showed
remarkable self-control in using
gin instead of cyanide.
These noxious young plants
still grow in Hollywood, and
there is one appearing in Para-
mount’s “Dear Wife” at Sydney
Prince Edward. She is the
younger daughter of a house-
hold, a bobby-soxer, with eyes
the size of soup-plates in per-
petual surprise. The dreadful
happenings that seem to follow
her every brainwave make
Jimmy Aldrich or Judge Hardy’s
awful son seem respectable
pikers in comparison.
The film has better ingredients,
like Edward Arnold, who, for a
few moments, gives some plea-
sant acting. He mounts a dais,
places his palms upon its edge
and proceeds to give the policy
speech of a cunning politician,
enjoyable even in these troubled
times when local loudspeakers
leave us sleepless and should
make folk impervious to cunning
politicians.
Arnold’s household includes
his elder daughter and her hus-
band, the familiar in-law prob-
lem, and, because of the formid-
able younger daughter, strife
unequalled even in real-life.
With her father in politics and
standing for the local seat, the
child connives to get his own
son-in-law, eating beneath the
same vine, to stand as his
opponent. Three days of cheer-
fulness, talk of friendly rivalry
and may the best man win, and
then the tufts begin to fly.
The dear wife, Joan Caulfield,
spits like a pussy-cat at her hus-
band for opposing her father,
while Edward Arnold, the color
of Pear's Cyclopcedia, explodes
regularly each morning as he
reads the latest outrage against
him. Billy de Wolf hangs around
the battlefield hoping for the
worst so that he may renew his
estranged engagement with Miss
Caulfield.
The laughs are there, but not
quite as strong as they were in
“Dear Ruth.”


,M (°
w
m
hi®
m
w
The “Swan” Leverless Pen is a treasure of a
gift, and a gift that will be treasured! It is not
merely made, but built with the precision
of a fine watch, of unbreakable materials. It has
a swift, unique filling device at the top of the
pen, which takes only two half-turns to fill.
There’s a choice of smooth-flowing nibs to suit
any hand. You’ll be proud to give the “Swan”.
&
$
%
Just a twist of your
wrist on the milled
rotary end of the pen
and your "Swan"
is brimful! It neither
leaks nor floods and
Is always in ready-
to-write condition.
b 2?
At all tta-
tioners, Jewel-
lers and Stores,
prices: 47/6;
61/9; 79/-.
“S WJUT4nm&> EifPEN
MABIE, TODD & CO. (ADSL) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
8/tM
QC6
ff/es you fastest to
«OMG W«G
HONGKONG
/LABUAN
DARW.IN
SYDNEY
From Sydney, via Darwin and Labuan, Hong Kong is
now less than 2 days away—by regular, fast, comfortable
Q.E.A. Skymaster services. First class steward service is
provided and excellent meals are served in flight.
Consult your local travel agent, or
AUSTRALIA’S INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE
in association with British Overseas Airways Corporation
KI SMUT
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding* They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. . .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia',
MB. E. G. JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., Melb., O.L,
G.P.O. Box 71.
AN F.M. COMMUNICATION TALE BY A.W.A.
a.
g
A
&
V'
wAKe or
STORM
B-r-r-r-p— B-r-r-r-p, B-r-r-r-p— B-r-r-r-p. The
insistent ringing of a telephone bell, competing
in shrillness with the gale outside, penetrated
the inner recesses of a sub-conscious mind to
disturb Jim Holland from the warmth of a
sound sleep.
Half awake he listened to the Systems Operator instructing him to
proceed immediately to the intersection of Main North Highway and
Carruthers Avenue where three phase, 6,600 volts lines were down
in a tangled mass in mute testimony to the ferocity of the elements.
Donning pullover, old army pants, overcoat, hat and gum boots,
he reflectively cursed the fact that he, a Divisional Line Maintenance
Engineer, working on electricity reticulation for an unimaginative
Council —all old fogeys in his estimation —should have to be dragged
out to give instructions which could, quite easily, be done from his
own back yard, if his vehicle were only fitted with F.M. radio. In all
probability numerous other faults would occur, it was a particularly
dirty night, anyhow, and the Systems Operator would never get him
once he had left his home.
It was sickening when he thought of the progressive Council in
the adjoining Municipality. They had F.M. radio. Their engineers
merely went to their cars and gave instructions, not only to one
working party but to half-a-dozen repair gangs all coping simultaneously
with storm damage. Hadn’t this other Council already proved the
absolute necessity for F.M. radio? It had been invaluable not only for
their normal routine but had permitted almost unbelievable co-operation
with police and civic authorities in the recent floods.
Driving to his mission Jim thought of the queer livelihoods people
follow and found himself marvelling at the genius of those who, in an
allied industry had turned electronic development to what was fast
becoming an accepted commodity. To think that you could dial a
car just as you ring up Harry or Dick —and talk quite clearly too —in
fact you wouldn’t know it wasn’t an ordinary telephone.
Who was the firm that had pioneered this facility? A.W.A.
That’s right. The big factory on Parramatta Road. What did they
call themselves? “Australia’s National Wireless Organisation.” Not a
trad claim —and quite justified too —hadn’t they pioneered practically
every major development in radio since 1913?
He must convince those councillors of the absolute necessity for
F.M. Perhaps a demonstration. Yes, that was it. He’d do that.
Contact A.W.A. in the morning.
Carruthers Avenue. Hell what a mess. If only he had those
councillors here now. That demonstration is a good idea. Must do that.
“Hullo Joe. Bit of a mess? Isolated anything yet ”
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Australasia) LIMITED
vaulted the low fence. She
watched his red M.G. flash from
sight, an expression of pride and
chagrin making her appear be-
wildered and foolishly guilty.
Win Carter, on his way to golf,
saw her standing there. “Whafve
you bin up to?” he asked, lean-
ing over the fence, his eyes filled
with the luminosity of his secret
laughter. She sought for an in-
spiration, all the time imagining
Win repeating the conversation
to her husband at the nineteenth
hole.
“These are Mr. Tolputt’s
roses,” she stammered. “I
bought them from him. He’s
selling all his shrubs and plants.”
Re tain i n g his indolent
mockery, Win cleared the fence
easily and strolled up to the rose-
bed. Very slowly he walked up
the bed, then more slowly down
again.
“A fine mascara you’ve got
here and no mistake about it.
This is what happens when a
woman gets hold of a pair of
shears.”
There was still only one pic-
ture in Mrs. Hopkins’s mind:
Win talking to her husband. She
began, “Harvey pruned
them ...”
“And now like a woman
you’re improving on it,” finished
Win gleefully. “How long’s
Harvey bin gone?”
“About half an hour, but...”
Win looked like a tantalising
Pan, his eyes under their peaked
eyebrows sliding from the bushes
to Mrs. Hopkins and back again
to the bushes.
“Here, give me them shears,”
he said, “and I’ll trim these up a
bit for you so’s Harvey won’t
have a prophylactic fit when he
gets home.”
He took the shears, and
strolled up the row, snipping
lazily. With her heart thumping
painfully, Mrs. Hopkins fol-
lowed, not daring to protest. At
the top of the row she looked
back fearfully as a person looks
at the reflection in a mirror of
a newly - shorn head. She
sighed. “They do look better,”
she said at last. “But much
smaller.”
Win gave her the shears. He
bundled up the cuttings in sur-
prisingly short time for a man
who seemed to move in slow-
motion. He dumped the cut-
tings in the incinerator. “You
better burn them before he gets
home,” he drawled, “or he’ll
tear that beautiful hair of his to
shreds.”
WHEN her husband arrived
home that evening he was in
a very irascible and despondent
mood; it appeared that he had
been put right off his game be-
cause “that fool of a Win
Carter” was over an hour late,
and “yapped like a female
Pekinese” from the first tee to
the last hole. “Just my luck to
draw him,” he concluded.
“Waited over an hour for him,
and when he turned up he had
some cock-and-bull story about
helping you with the ‘incrimi-
nator’ because there’d been some
sort of a ‘mascara.’ That fellow
gets on my nerves sometimes.
Did he help you with the in-
cinerator?”
“Well, he did ... in a way,”
evaded Mrs. Hopkins, very
annoyed and alarmed. She
thought “Win couldn’t keep it
to himself. He’ll hold that over
me for years. Oh, I do wish
Joseph had left those bushes
alone.”
She told the whole sad story
to her daughter the next day.
“And I paid over £l6 for
them,” she concluded, “but for
goodness’ sake don’t tell Cyril a
word about any of it, because
you know what men are like
when they have a few drinks
together, and if your father
found out he’d be furious.”
Constance was a tall, angular,
homely-faced young woman,
with fierce eyes like her father’s,
and a face covered with a very
fine golden down.
She dug her hands into her
cardigan pockets, swelled out her
bosom another inch or so, and
spoke in a loud, assured tone.
“Now, Mother, for goodness’
sake, don’t twitter! Let me have
a look at these bushes, and forget
about Win Carter. He’ll only
have a dig at you now and again,
but it’d take more than gelignite
to get anything out of him.”
She strode out into the garden,
followed closely by her mother,
and glared at the rose-bushes,
“My godfather!” she
whispered.
She walked down the row,
darting sharp, critical glances at
the offending bushes. She de-
livered judgment.
“Something will definitely
have to be done with them.
They’re all out of plumb. They
look as though they’ve been
petrified in a gale.”
She thought for a few seconds.
“I’ll send young Stevens around
((Continued on page 34.)


Women's letters
From Sydney
There’s a fine example of the stone-
mason’s art at Victoria Barracks. It is
in the wall bordering the lawns to the
left from the main gateway. Here are
inset three lumps of coal —the first mined
by a group of the sappers who were
building the wall when they were called
to the mines during the big strike. There’s
an inscription with one word spelled
wrongly. It was sub-edited from “per-
sonell” to “personnel.” But it came back
triumphantly “personel.” So it remains.
The coal shone shiny and black when
Lieut.-General Berryman stood near by
opening the fair in the Barracks Grounds
last Friday. On the lawns stood a woolly
sheep enduring patiently the gaze of
hundreds who were guessing his weight.
There was a pig—as nice a bit of still-
life as possible. The poor dear was quite
dead, and was being slowly smoked for
the barbecue at night. There were tea-
tables on the green. There was putting.
There were flowers and cakes. There was
Anne Berryman, looking radiant, and
Mrs. Berryman, very active, Mrs. Paddy
Moore was another glimpsed raking in
the shekels for the War Widows’ Guild.
From the moment the curtain went up
showing Aunt Eller at her churn, some-
where in Oklahoma in pre-auto days,
most women onlookers knew they were
going to enjoy the new Royal show.
Aunt, pretty and spry and somewhere
round the sixties, is as enticing as a
cherry. Every woman present loved her
when she said to Curly, the cowboy hero,
about 20: “You goin’ to drive me to the
social, Curly? I’ll wear my fascinator.”
As good a reason for matrimony as any
was Ali Hakim’s. He said he had an
irresistible urge to propose marriage to
the girl he was out walking with when he
suddenly saw the moonlight—glinting on
the barrel of her father’s shotgun.
“Oklahoma!” is a grand show, as full
of sauce as a Granny Smith apple. It’s
fresh and sweet and not a bit insipid, and
at its premiere last week it lived up to
all the accounts of it travellers had
brought from London and New York.
One who had seen the London and New
York productions was Mrs. Charles Lloyd
Jones. She looked as if she were enjoying
the Sydney first-night, too. Her full-
skirted frock of mist-blue brocades was
caped in platina fox, and her diamond
earrings might have been moonlit dew-
drops in old Oklahoma itself. The Harry
Moxham lady’s rose-white chiffon had
its skirt finely pleated, its bodice was em-
broidered in sequins and pearls, and the
stole scarf which accompanied it wore a
trail of small jasmine flowers on one
shoulder. Jocelyn Gaden wore on the
square neckline of her larkspur-blue
moires a miniature of a lovely ancestress
circled in precious stones. Her friend
Mrs, E. Robinson wore raspberry-red
chiffons.
The foyers, upstairs and down, were
a crush of Sydney’s best clothes lit with
the family jewels. Mrs. A. E. Grace and
Mrs. Farley added, as they always do,
their serene presence to this “first” night.
Tall and fair Joan Allen flashed past in
burgundy crepes. Silver- and coral-striped
was the frock worn by Patricia Glass.
Black-and-white-striped taffeta panniers
and a bouffant skirt of white organza
were features of Mrs. Edward Hamilton’s
lovely frock. Noted was Janet Plow-
man’s silver-grey satin evening coat.
Margaret Longworth’s poinsettia-red
crepes toned in with sister Jean’s hyacinth-
pink laces; they were accompanied by
Margaret’s fiance. Merlin Hansen.
Anemone-pink satin, the bodice draped
cross-over style, was Mrs. Robert Stubbs’s
choice. Brilliant ballet dancer Strelsa
Heckelman and Paddy Holland are Aus-
tralasians. The former is from Queens-
land, and Paddy is a New Zealander and
a Frances Scully pupil.
Those of us visiting the display of books
for the Bush Book Club ballot had
poignant reminder of a brilliant woman
in whose acting we had had great joy.
Prominent among the books was the Life
of Irene Vanbrugh. That very morning
the cables had brought word of Miss
Vanbrugh’s death in London. Sir Angus
Gillan, who represents the British Council
in Australia, spoke in his opening speech
of the blessing of books to the outback —
he had learned all about that in the South
African outback. President Barbara
Knox introduced the speaker. Present
were the Kelso King' lady, who is a vice-
president of the 8.8. C., Mrs. Bassett
Christian and Mr, and Mrs. James Dick-
son. The ballot will be drawn today,
December 7.
Alice Prowse, wife of Australian com-
poser James Brash, has a collector’s as
well as a singer’s mania for good songs.
She is arranging the Christmas-carol even-
ing with which the women’s section of the
Australian-American Society will close its
1949 activities. The ballroom of the Aus-
tralia will resound with Christmas music
on December 12 from 8.15 onwards. The
programme features Australian and
American carols, and Alice’s friend,
American composer Mildred Lund
Tyson, has sent groups of old New
England, Appalachian Mountains and
Negro (Kentucky) works specially picked
for the occasion.
Australian carols include verse from
the pen of John Wheeler, set to music
by William James, musical director of the
A.8.C., and a group written by Mr.
Massey, of St. Mark’s, The A.B.C. vocal
quartet and the choristers of St. Mark’s
will star on the programme. Frank
Hutchens has written for this programme
a carol, sensitive as its title, “The First
Christmas Day.” Clever Ailsa Aplette
will accompany all.
Being marooned on a desert island, or
lying becalmed in a yacht in mid-ocean,
will hold no terrors for you if you have
the three Livingstones with you. The
three of them, Frank and John and Emily,
with as gallant, hard-working and fun-
loving crew as even they could have hoped
for (Kurrewa I and II were also sailed by
this Mt. Gambier family), sailed Kurrewa
111 20,000 miles across the Pacific and
back! They sailed their hardy little yacht
in the Trans-Pacific Yacht Race between
Los Angeles and Honolulu, and finished
up in good honorable position with nine
of their superb, nylon-sailed rivals behind
them.
To hear Emily (subject of this Norton
Trevaire picture), the bright-faced, bright-
eyed (the two brothers and Miss Living-
stone have bright eyes and a direct gaze),
tell the story of this great ocean race,
from a woman’s point of view, made one
of the most amusing evenings ever known
at the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron.
The billiard-room had been cleared for
the occasion, and on the high seats lining
the walls sat intrepids who have followed
the sea for years. The ones who weren’t
in time to get the high benches had to be
content, like the associates, with places
in the body of the hall. Most of that long
voyage Miss Livingstone spent in the
galley, hanging with one arm on to the
mast, preparing and cooking meals for
nine men. She wears a number of
bracelets always, and when these were
heard clashing furiously not even the
skipper dared go into the galley.
When Emily baked her first batch of
bread brother Frank said: “Now I know
how we can get dollars —we’ll throw the
bread into the bilge and sell it to the
Americans for lead.” The bread, inci-
dentally, became feather-light before
journey’s end. But Frank Livingstone
swears that the crew was in conspiracy
with his sister, and that when the bread
was rising and inclined to overflow to
starboard, then the yacht was suddenly
tacked to port to even up the loaves,
A woman who can laugh these stories off,
and later tell them and a lot more like
them against herself, is the only sort of
sister two brothers could take adventuring
with them.
The commodore and flag-officers of the
squadron entertained the two Mr. Living-
stones and Miss Livingstone at a dinner-
party in the south lounge before John
and Frank and Emily told this tale of the
sea. The squadron’s new commodore,
Charles Lloyd Jones (and no name is
better known as a yachtsman than his),
was the host. Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones
was the hostess, and wore with her black
afternoon frock a black hat, round the
back of which curved red-gold plumes.
In the party also was the associates’
president, Mrs. F. White,
If the unknown lady who, thinking her
need was greater than mine, got off with
a pair of toehold goloshes from the
women’s powder-room at the Tivoli in the
midst of the deluge on the opening night
of “Much Ado” will return them anony-
mously to the Tivoli, no further action
will be taken. If she doesn’t, also, no
further action will be taken.
Among successful weekend parties was
the Authors’ Ball in the State ballroom.
This was a 21st birthday, and an enor-
mous iced cake given by Mrs. Cassidy
ornamented the official table. Mrs. Clive
Evatt was president of the ball, Ruby
Illingworth the social secretary. Another
was the Harry Evanses’ before-Christmas
revel in their Vaucluse home, which netted
Sydney’s musicians and music-lovers,
many of them going on from the Walter
Swinsons’ reception in their home at
Turramurra.
From Melbourne
Smart dressing featured the gala open-
ing of “Edward, My Son” at the Comedy.
One of the most attractive frocks was
that worn by Mrs. Leo Curtis. The
bouffant skirt was of pastel-pink or-
ganza, and the strapless bodice was
banded with posies of multicolored
hydrangeas. Four large lime-green roses
embellished Mrs. Maurice Sallmann’s
swing-back jacket of black taffeta ; this
was worn over a black tulle frock, with
the skirt fitting to the knees, flaring be-
low into a full flounce, Mrs, Robert
Morley’s long tailored coat had deep
side-pockets of sables; her patterned
organza frock was in peacock-green and
blue. Betty Wallace Mitchell topped
her short-skirted frock with a sequin-
scattered tulle bolero and a tiny black-
velvet beanie-cap. Mrs. Russell Gour-
lay’s powder-blue crepe dinner-frock had
for company a cyclamen crepe stole. Over
her slimly-cut grey crepe gown Mrs.
Gordon Coulter wore a swing-back jacket
of mutation-blue mink. Mrs. Harley
Styles’s bouffant gown of white brocade
was patterned in gold leaves.
After the show the Frank Tails
gave a supper-party at their Toorak
home ; included among the 70 guests were
the cast of the play and many from the
Gilbert and Sullivan company. Mrs. Tail
wore a gown of tobacco-brown tulle and
a matching stole. Sophie Stewart’s grey
moire, satin-striped gown had an off-the-
shoulder line and a bustle bow. Marjorie
Eyre’s navy taffeta gown was embroidered
in white spots. Over her white taffeta
gown Mrs. Leo Guest wore a white Arctic
fox cape. Mrs. Garnet Carroll was in
sweeping black crepes. Mrs. Lindsey
Biggins added a matching stole to her
bouffant gown of blue tulle. Mrs. T.
Allan McKay’s gown was powder-blue in
tone. Mrs. Erl Grey’s gown was of multi-
colored checks in silk. The slanting neck-
line of Mrs, George Griffiths’s strapless
black frock was picked out with green
and pink faille ribbon, which was also
featured on the skirt. Ruth Tail’s gown
was of blue and silver brocade. Mrs.
Ivan Menzies’s black velvet coat had
chinchilla cuffs. Mrs. Claude Kingston’s
gown was of grey and rust-shot taffeta.
A simple tailored gown of white
broderie Anglaise was worn by Suzanne,
only child of Mr. and Mrs. H. Desbrowe
Annear, of Toorak, when she was married
at St. John’s, Toorak. The gown was
made with a bouffant skirt falling into a
train and the bodice featured a high up-
standing collar and tiny magyar sleeves
finished with a cuff. The finger-tip veil of
tulle fell softly from a cloche cap of
broderie Anglaise, and she carried a white
prayer book with a marker of gardenias.
Anne (“Muffle”) Patterson was the only
attendant; her gown of palest-pink linen
organdie and taffeta was made with
a bouffant skirt and short flared jacket
finished with a Peter Pan collar. The
bridegroom, Geoffrey Lynne, third son of
Mrs, John Lynne Wharton, of Toorak,
and the late Mr. Lynne Wharton, had
Ken Christian as best man. Wedding re-
ception was at nine Darling-street.
When Allan Bernaldo presented his
latest collection of watercolors at Koz-
minsky’s Galleries he not only showed
some beautiful pictures but went to the
trouble of printing on the back of the
catalogue some good advice which
budding artists would do Well to study.
Allan thinks a stainless-steel color box,
with porcelain fittings which can be
easily cleaned and periodically sterilised,
should be used, and he also gave a few
hints on picture-mounting, how to clean
the glass which covers the pictures and
finishes by saying that with modern
methods a watercolor painting, under
normal conditions, should last a century
without perceptible change. The gallery
was packed on the opening day when
Ladv Brookes declared the show open.
Her smart hat with its coq-feather
trimming was itself a work of art and
was worn with mink coat and black
frock. Peggy, the artist’s wife, entertained
later in the afternoon at a small cocktail-
party ; her black and white striped
taffeta hat contrasted with her tailored
suit of black grosgrain. Mrs. George
Haines’s beige suit had for company a
scarlet flower-trimmed hat. Mrs. David
Harlem was in grey suit and feather-
swept grey hat. Mrs. Bernard Evans’s
ensemble was black. Mrs. Arthur Crofts
added a black straw hat to her floral silks.
Mrs. E. Leticq’s brilliant-red jacket-suit
was contrasted with a blue blouse, Mrs.
W. McDermott took time off from her
duties at ticket-secretary for the dinner
dance at Giro’s for the Melba Memorial
Fund to view the artist’s work ; her royal-
blue suit was worn with a matching
chiffon bonnet.
Elizabeth Merry, who came here from
Worcestershire three years ago and
has travelled extensively over Australia,
will be married at St. John’s, Toorak,
next Saturday to Harry Massey, who
manages the stud yearling farm Yarroma;
at Brookfield, just out of Brisbane.
Elizabeth’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas
Merry, leave England on January 6 to
visit Elizabeth in her new home. Photo
by Norman Dewhurst.
At a late-afternoon party given by
Lady Herring at her South Yarra home
the first winner of the Vera Scantlebury
Brown Memorial Scholarship, Thelma
Baker, and Beth Stubbs, winner of the
1950 scholarship (she leaves shortly for
Columbia University, U.S.A., to take a
degree course in pre-school education),
were joint guests-of-honor. Thelma re-
cently returned from her studies abroad,
which took her to Denmark, Sweden,
Norway and Holland, full of enthusiasm
for helping along a positive attitude to
the creation of health in Australia. At
the party she expressed her gratitude to
the committee of the memorial fund for
allowing scholarship winners to choose
the channels through which they could
seek their overseas studies.
Lady Herring, who was assisted by
Sir Edmund and their daughter, Dr.
Molly Herring, wore a navy jacket-
suit set off with a white lace blouse.
Thelma Baker’s teal-blue suit was
contrasted with a rust-red hat, and
Beth Stubbs wore with her navy suit,
which had blue - and - white - striped
taffeta forming cuffs and collar, a white
rough-straw hat. Mrs. Tom Hollway and
Mrs. S. J. Fletcher decided for the navy
ensemble. Mrs. Garnet Carroll, who is
president of the memorial fund’s enter-
tainments committee, combined black
taffeta and tulle. Lady Angliss was in
brown-and-white figured silks. Mrs. W.
K. Burnside’s sage-green ensemble had
brown accessories. Mrs. Russell Cold-
ham’s blue-and-white patterned silk
frock was topped by a rose-strewn
natural-straw hat. Mrs. Dick Noone’s
junior navy bolero suit gained effect
from its accompanying Chartreuse crepe
blouse; her navy straw hat had Char-
treuse flowers for trimming. Pat Christie’s
tailored frock of natural linen had a
matching straw hat.
One of the first of the pre-Christmas
parties was that given by Dr. and Mrs.
John Heath, and their first since they
returned from their trip abroad. Mrs.
Heath’s frock of black faille had a skirt
showing the new back fullness. Her
daughter Pat’s ballerina frock of pastel-
blue linen had the shoulder-straps and the
skirt-hem of white linen lace. Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell was in frock and match-
ing jacket of powder-blue crepe. Her
daughter Betty added a small white hat to
her black-and-white silk frock. Mrs. Jim
Fitzgerald’s aqua-blue crepe frock had a
trimming of deeper blue sequins on the
bodice. Mrs. Frank McNamara wore a
dove-grey tailored frock.


V
Pi
There’s \: :
no
|| like an o
Id
friend I
11
si Al
(T) c CdllLLm's
c^^
Scots Ctlhisky
A\4Mj£/h~K
OfitfMqM f»ou-£xb ieo»)s r>6x« *
The name ls_
(ntalliini’s
The uihisku is_
THE “WILD CAT” MONTHLY
Economic, Market and Financial Conditions.
Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Price: 2/- per single copy—22/6 a year, post free.
It’s wise to wait
for VAUXHALL
*
jAa as |iitghmfc
Ask the owner of a new Vauxhall—l2 h.p., 4 cylinder Wyvern or 18 h.p., 6 cylinder Velox—
what he thinks of his new car. His enthusiastic reply will prove that it’s wise to wait for Vauxhall.
VAUXHALL GIVES YOU SO MUCH. Take value for money, for example. Compare
Vauxhall’s prices and you will agree that Vauxhall value is unequalled. In performance, 100,
Vauxhall is outstanding. Vauxhall Velox will cruise at sixty—surge up to seventy five—
average 28 m.p.g. at about 30 m.p.h. Vauxhall Wyvern cruises at fifty with a top speed
of 60-65 m.p.h., and will do 35 m.p.g. at about 30 m.p.h.
3 BODY STYLES FOR EACH MODEL. Velox and Wyvern are each available in three
magnificent body styles all-imported English Saloons, Saloons with imported panels
assembled locally, and happy, stylish Caleche tourers (left).
PH
a
mm
Your Vauxhall Dealer will tell you of the G.M.A.C.
Confidential Payment Plan—also of the built-for •
Vauxhall “Air Chief ” Car Radio .
VAUXHALL
18h.p. Velox —l2 h.p. Wyvern
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S
Brisbane * Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide
Sold and serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia.
LTD.
. Perth
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDWARD WILLIE WIDDISON.—
TAKE NOTICE that CLARA IVY WID-
DISON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2659 of 1949 on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards ■with-
out just cause or excuse If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 21st day of Febru-
ary 1950 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from R. BRUCE
BLOORE, Solicitor, West Wyalong, or his
City Agents, MESSRS. JONES, JONES &
JONES, Solicitors, 183 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney— (1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
Kenney v. Rowell.
“Ek Dum”: The attack on
Lieut.-General Rowell, who be-
comes Chief of the General Staff
in the new year, by General
Kenney, who was Air C.-in-C.
in the South-west Pacific, has
had some ironic reactions.
With that careless disregard
for other people’s reputations
which characterises a lot of
American Generals of not very
heavy tonnage, General Kenney
declared that Lieutenant-General
Rowell adopted a defeatist policy
when the Japanese were threat-
ening Moresby in the latter
months of 1942 and that his out-
look permeated the whole of
the Australian force in New
Guinea.
He declared that there was a
“definite lack of inspiration”
and a “don’t-care attitude”
which suggested that the Aus-
tralian staff was reconciled to
being forced out of New Guinea,
and says further that General
Rowell was proposing to with-
draw his perimeter-line to a
point at which it would put most
of our aerodromes in Japanese
hands.
He adds that he told General
Rowell that he could not see
why 12,000 white men should
allow 200 or 300 Japs to chase
them behind barbed-wire, and he
continues that he “decided to
recommend General Mac Arthur
to fly some Yanks up there,” and
that “there was panic in Moresby
until General Blarney assumed
command When Blarney was
in command, Rowell was not
even consulted any more.”
A good deal of irresponsible
rubbish has been written by
Americans, but probably nothing
which better merited the descrip-
tion than General Kenney’s
effort.
The lie is given to almost
everything which General
Kenney writes by General Mac-
Arthur’s communiques—General
MacArthur, of course, having
overall responsibility.
Japanese Plans
The course of Japanese opera-
tions was somewhat as follows.
They had a set plan for the cap-
ture of Moresby, about which
the Allied conceptions of the
time differed somewhat, but on
the safe side, from the actuality
as now disclosed by Japanese
records. The first scheme seems
to have been to work round the
left flank from Lae and Sala-
maua, but this was completely
impracticable.
Then it was decided to assault
the rear of the Port with the use
of a naval convoy force, but the
Coral Sea battle put an end to
this. Next, a move was made to
concert an attack on the centre
with a landing at Milne Bay and
an attack on the Solomons in
some force designed to hold
Allied naval and air strength at
arms length from the defence of
the real objective.
What happened at Milne Bay
scarcely suggests “a lack of in-
spiration and a don’t-care atti-
tude.” Considering the resources
available and the tropical in-
experience of most of the troops
the vigor with which the opera-
tion was conducted was astonish-
ing—and quite satisfactory to
everybody except the Japs.
The Milne Bay attackers
obviously designed to establish
a supply-base which would,
among other things, obviate the
necessity of using the Owen
Stanley route to move anything
except troops and limited neces-
sities. The failure of the Milne
Bay operation meant the failure
of the Owen Stanley operation.
Over the Range
The Japanese penetration of
the Owen Stanleys was accom-
plished by a lightly-armed force,
after the 39th Militia Battalion,
which had been on patrol on the
northern side of the range, had
been almost destroyed and its
gallant commander, W. D.
Owen, killed.
The enemy force was not a
very large one —about six bat-
talions at the outside. Its most
powerful weapon was a light
field-gun. It had mortars and
light automatic-arms galore and
was supported by a large coolie
force.
The Australian strength in
Moresby at that time might have
made a total of 10,000 or even
12,000 men, but these included
coastal and aerodrome defence,
administrative units and all the
usual base ancillaries.
For campaigning in the Owen
Stanleys lines of communication
were dependent on native labor,
which, at that stage, was limited
and almost an unknown quan-
tity as to probable behavior.
The defence available for opera-
tions was entirely dependent, not
on total men in the area, but on
what force could be kept
supplied —the details of these
considerations were given in
these pages at the time, and all
subsequent information has con-
firmed the estimate then made.
The heart of our detachments
in Moresby were seasoned troops
from Africa, inured to cam-
paigning and to desert fighting.
Any one company of them had
more experience of actual com-
paigning than all the rank-and-
file Americans in the South-west
Pacific put together. They, how-
ever, had no experience in jungle
fighting.
The country below the foot-
hills of the ranges facing
Moresby is open. The command
agreed with General Blarney s
later doubts whether the enemy
would be able to bring heavy
artillery over the range and with
the same commander’s assurance
that “wherever our men have
met thdm in open country the
Japanese have been defeated
or forced to flee to the cover of
the jungle.” So with seasoned
troops accustomed to fight in
open country, with limited trans-
port and with command of the
sea in the rear and growing com-
mand of the air, the obvious
tactic was to allow the enemy
to lengthen his line of communi-
cation over the Owen Stanleys
and fight him on the most suit-
able ground, in the open in an
area into which maximum supply
was possible.
All for Aggression
This did not, however, suit
the amateur strategists of the
Sydney Press and particularly
their young Communist advisers.
They were all for pressing on
aggressively—and pronto —over
the ranges and wiping out the
invaders. -
Though Moresby was nearly
as far away from Sydney by air-
line as Istanbul is from London,
the panic which developed was
shameful, the more so because
it communicated itself to the
abject and shivering crowd of
“Labor” Ministers in Canberra,
who allowed the yellow Press to
take the command out of their
hands and to force them to send
General Blarney in person to
Moresby to “stop the rot”—
which was already stopped be-
fore he arrived. They even
demanded that a Minister be sent
up—but no Minister showed a
disposition to risk his skin.
General Blarney’s estimates of
the situation seem to have been
exactly those of General Rowell’s
and General Vasey’s at the time.
He saw that Milne Bay opera-
tions had resulted in the “com-
plete defeat of the Japanese.”
General Rowell, apparently
and very naturally, felt that the
attitude of the Government in
virtually replacing him in the
1 Corps Command was a public
reflection on his conduct of the
campaign. And after some ex-
changes he was superseded. It
was here written of him at that
stage: —•
He is a lieutenant-general, by far
the youngest officer in the C.M.F.
ever to hold that rank. A Duntroon
and Gallipoli veteran at 20, he was
long ago picked as a future C.O.S.
Since his return from the Middle
East he has been Deputy C.O.S.
He was sent to Cairo as Aus-
tralian liaison officer, a minor
post in which his talents were
completely and disgracefully
wasted. His ability was, how-
ever, soon recognised by other
people and he was seconded to
the War Office, where he served
as Director of Tactical Investi-
gation during the invasion of
Europe, gaining experience
unique in the Australian Army.
Kokoda Operations
Later, of course, spurred on
by the Press, the Kokoda Trail
operation was undertaken and
the enemy winkled out of Buna.
History will have a good deal
that is critical to say of that
operation, gallant as it was from
start to finish. And the verdict
will probably be that it was un-
necessary and wantonly waste-
ful of personnel through death
and disease. Australia’s losses
in that campaign were about
four times those at Alamein. In-
valuable forces of the flower of


KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
B
A
&
u
6«
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KITCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
lAVINA
17-jeweiled Swiss
Masterpieces
V
m
with
NON-MAGNETIC ESCAPEMENT
lAVINA
WATCHES
in 1852-Villeret, Suisse
LW2
TOMATO SAUC
M
M.
mm
> *
T*~
. m
mm
mm
'' , \
Ll»4p
&
. . i
■ >
ii
!N
J
Contains no artificial colouring orj
flavouring. Made from the" best ripe
tomatoes to retain natural colour.
fs
It’s new ! A streamlined Chrome Set that you’ll
delight to use and be proud to own. The automatic
shaving angle and Superkeen “Gem” Blades of sur-
gical steel, give cool, clean, drag-free shaves that
keep you neat and avoid 5 o’clock shadow.
New “GEM” de luxe Chrome Sets
•fc “Gem” Chromium Plated Streamline Model in handsome
case of Ivory Plastic with 5 “Gem” double-life Blades. 20/-.
ic Also new Chrome Strop Outfit with automatic stropper, as
illustrated, complete with 8 Blades in Ivory Plastic Gift
Case. 35/-.
“Gem” Double-life Blades, 5 for 1/9. Sold Everywhere.
New GEM
Streamlined Chrome Sets
“Have another shot , Carstairs; he didn't hear that one."
the Australian divisions were
destroyed by disease and by
being thrown against heavily-
defended positions without
armor and without adequate sup-
port of other kinds.
For these things the politicians
and the Press which egged them
on must bear most of the respon-
sibility.
Chungking Falls.
“Ek Dum”; As expected,
there was little attempt to defend
Chungking from the Com-
munists. Those hardy walkers
were expected in the “new”
Nationalist capital at any
moment on November 28: When
the morning dawned the Com-
munist forces had spearheads
within eight miles of the city, and
General Chiang Kai-shek, who
had been “organising the de-
fences,” discovered that he had
business in Chengtu, about 200
miles still further in the interior,
which will be the new “new”
capital.
The entry of the Red visitors
was delayed by a diversion of
their spearheads in an attempt
to cut the Chungking-Chengtu
road.
Next day the Nationalist
Government admitted that
Chungking had fallen. The fall
was not hard. As anticipated,
the patriots of Chungking were
almost killed in the rush to wel-
come the invaders. If Chiang
Kai-shek ever succeeds in re-
turning, more citizens will be
nearly killed in the crush to wel-
come him. But it seems that he
has had his last welcome for the
time being. Chengtu can be only
a temporary refuge for the
Nationalist Government. There,
within a few days, the order for
the day may be “All aboard for
Formosa.”
The danger to the island ap-
proaches closer. Wuchow, one
of the biggest ports dealing with
Hong Kong and Canton in the
produce of Kweichow and Yun-
nan, fell into Communist hands
during the week.
It was announced that the
Nationalists would defend For-
mosa “to the death.” But unless
the Western Allies intervene it
can be taken for granted that
when the invasion comes the
same pattern which has become
familiar at every point of attack
will be repeated. The will to
fight, if ther6 ever was any
worth the name, has gone out
of the Nationalist Chinese.
Actually the battle in the
United Nations during the week
on the subject of China was
fiercer than around Chung-
king’s defence perimeter. Under
the leadership of the United
States, five Pacific nations—
Australia, Mexico, Pakistan
and the Philippines—put for-
ward a resolution that “the
General Assembly call upon
all States to respect the
political independence of China”
and be guided by the prin-
ciples of the United Nations
Charter in their relations with
that country; furthermore, that
all nations should agree to re-
frain from seeking to acquire a
share or influence or to create
foreign-controlled regimes in
China or to seek special rights
and privileges from the Chinese
Government. It was proposed
that alleged Russian violations of
the 1945 treaty be referred to
the International Court.
No doubt splitting their sides,
the Soviet Union and the Iron-
Curtain nations of Eastern
Europe flatly refused to take
part in the debate, and there were
no congratulations to Canberra
from Peking, which obviously
prefers to deal with the Com-
munist party and its unions,
which have just graciously
decided to lift the ban on ship-
ping to Indonesia after it has cost
upwards of £60,000,000. The
Peking People’s Government on
November 29 reported the re-
ceipt from the A.C.P. and other
“revolutionary” bodies in the
Commonwealth of a number of
revolutionary greetings coupled
with a pledge to do the best pos-
sible to promote friendship be-
tween the Chinese Communists
and the Australian people.
The Chinese Nationalists still
show little gratitude for what is
being done for them in U.N.O.
On the day on which the United
States representatives in U.N.O.
were pleading the cause of a
free China, the Nationalist Navy
was cleaning its guns after two
of its warships probably
donated by Britain or the United
States had bombarded the
American merchant ship Sir John
Franklin at almost point-blank
range for about an hour.
The United States State De-
partment made an “energetic
protest.”
All events in China add up to
the fact that it is a land which
at present should have a wide
berth by anybody who is not
looking for trouble. Nothing
that can be done short of war
would prevent the Soviet Union
colonising it. But it remains to
be seen how thorough the
colonisation can be made in the
face of the well-known Chinese
habits of passive resistance.
Moves in Europe.
At the Paris meeting last week
the Ministers of 12 Atlantic Pact
countries reached agreement on
the defence pact for Western
Europe. The agreement is
designed virtually to pool the
defence resources of the nations,
including their merchant marine
and commercial air resources.
The plan covers production and
supply as well as military
defence proper.
The meeting and its results
were far better publicised than
a meeting of the Cominform
held behind the Russian curtain
in Hungary, which called to the
world Communist parties to
struggle for peace and working-
class unity—for the same old
policy of disruption which has
been promoted since the §ixth
Conference of the Comintern
in 1928. The singular thing, not
noticed by the daily Press in
general, about this world-wide
call is that Australian and other
Communist parties now dis-
avow any link with the Comin-
form or other international
bodies. One activity of the con-
ference was the cursing of Tito
as a Fascist-Imperialist. That
worthy responded by putting 12
Russian officials on trial for
espionage and other crimes
against the great Yugoslavian
“democracy.” The position as
between Stalin and Tito is
worsening, especially since one
of the imprisoned Russian diplo-
mats at Belgrade last week was
reported to have committed
suicide rather than stand trial.


No. 58
as illustrated
40'-
No. 28 30/- No. 540 18/6
No. 388 27/6 No. 475 17/6
FULLY GUARANTEED
The easy writing and per-
fect ink-flow are appreciated
by every type of writer. It’#
the perfect gift —Conway
Stewart pens are used
by millions of satisfied
writers.
(cmidat| §bi«)flrt
CONWAY STEWART & CO. LTD., LONDON
S. W. RAMSAY, MELBOURNE AND SYDNEY
PORT OF ENTRY
TO DOLLAR MARKETS
Gateway to World Trade
You can reach dollar markets with your exhibit at the Canadian
International Trade Fair.
Businessmen from Canada, from the adjacent United States, and
from many other countries will tome to buy the things they need.
Show them your products, them the most effective way-
on the basis of personal contact and actual samples.
The Canadian International Trade Fair is sponsored by the Government
of Canada, whose trade representatives throughout the world can
supply full information. Consult: —
C. M. Croft, Commercial Counsellor for Canada, City Mutual
Life Building, Hunter and Bligh Streets, Sydney.
F. W. Fraser, Commercial Secretary for Canada, 83 William %
Street, Melbourne.
Canadian International Hade Fair
MAY 29 —JUNE 9. 1 950
TORONTO, CANADA
DEDICATED TO THE PROMOTION OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
' ' 'NP3
Pergonal and Missing Friends.
KE CHARLES LEAFE JENKINS.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
CHARLES LEAFE JENKINS believed
bom in United Kingdom and to have re-
sided in Perth, Western Australia, about
20 years ago, is asked to communicate
with the undersigned. Such information
will be to the advantage of Charles Leafe
Jenkins.—NICHOLSON & NICHOLSON,
Solicitors, 97 St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Western Australia.
TO ROYAL ALFRED SPARKS formerly
of thp Tivoli Theatre Sydney in the State
of New South Wales but now of parts un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that BETTY
YARNDA SPARKS of 12 Coronet Street
Flemington in the State of Victoria has
instituted proceedings for divorce against
you on the ground that you have been
guilty of a repeated act of adultery with
one PEGGY McDONALD Unless you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’a
Office of the Supreme Court of Victoria
Law Courts William Street Melbourne on
or before the 15th day of January 1950
the case may proceed in your absence and
you may be ordered to pay the costs You
have until the 25th of January 1950 to
file an answer.—J. A. C. COULTER &
SCOULLER, 4 Bank Place, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
TO PEGGY MCDONALD.—TAKE NOTICE
that I BETTY YARNDA SPARKS have
filed in the Office of the Prothonotary of
this Court a Petition against ROY
ALFRED SPARKS for a dissolution of
marriage charging the said ROY ALFRED
SPARKS with a repeated act of adultery
with you the abovenamed PEGGY MC-
DONALD You are informed that under
Section 118 of the Marriage Act 1928 the
Court may if it thinks fit allow you to
intervene in this suit upon such terms
(if any) as the Court thinks just. BETTY
SPARKS —Petitioner. The Petitioner’s
address for service is at the office of her
solicitors, Messrs. J. A. O. COULTER &
SCOULLER, of 4 Bank Place, Melbourne.
IBBERD. —ANYONE knowing where-
bouts next-of-kin of GEORGE HIBBERD,
te of 29 Brighton Avenue, Croydon Park,
ho was bom London 1863 and died after
927, kindly communicate with T. J.
URCELL, Solicitor, 66 King Street,
ydney.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A . MAONEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman: Alfred S, White . _
R A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manag
’Phone; B.W. 8361.
Branches in All States .
139 Pitt Street, Sydney
to do what he can with them,”
she announced.
“I think I’ll leave them till next
year,” said her mother, praying
for strength to combat this latest
menace. “Jack, the butcher,
says they’d be best left till next
year, and old Mr. Hassen, who
knows a lot about roses, looked
at them this morning when he
brought the vegetables and he
said the same thing.”
“Really, Mother, you do
annoy me! You’re so vacillat-
ing. I can just see you, asking
everyone’s advice, chatting with
the tradesmen and holding post-
mortems with relatives. No
wonder they’re in such a deplor-
able plight. I’m sending young
Stevens around, and that’s
that!”
“But who is he, and how do
you know he knows ...”
“Oh, Mother! Don’t be so
dense. You know Mr. Stevens —
well, this is his son. He’s here
on holidays.”
Enlightenment came to Mrs.
Hopkins, but not relief. She
murmured, “Oh, Jack Stevens;
but he’s only a lad!”
“He jvas, but he’s not now.
People do grow up, you know.”
“Oh, very well,” sighed Mrs.
Hopkins; “but I do hope he
knows where to stop. Men just
don’t know where to stop when
they start pruning.”
I ACK STEVENS arrived next
morning. In his late ’teens,
he was a fashionably-dressed,
composed young man, with a
face as bright as his shirt, which
was a spectacular yellow closely
printed with Mexican bandits
and bright green cactus plants.
He nonchalantly twirled a pair
of dark sunglasses in one hand
and held in the other a glossy
Panama hat. Overcome by such
splendor, Mrs. Hopkins was
bereft of speech. She hastily
untied her apron, and drawing
it over her head (disarranging
her hair) she dropped it on to a
chair as though it were a dirty
dishcloth she was anxious to
hide.
“Oh,” she said, “I —how are
you?”
“In the pink, thank you, Mrs.
Hopkins, And you?”
“Very well, thank you,” said
Mrs. Hopkins, wondering vaguely
why'radiant youth was so over-
whelming.
“I’ve come to look at those
roses of yours.”
“Yes, yes. Of course.”
Once more Mrs. Hopkins
trotted over to the rose-bed, and
once more, with her lips stiffly
open, she watched the bushes
shrinking under a disparaging
scrutiny. By the time Jack came
back to her side her mouth was
dry from being exposed to the re-
morseless air. She stood looking
at Jack, her teeth showing a faint
line of white around a red cavity.
“Pretty grim show,” said Jack.
“They look as though they’ve
been on the hops,” he added
pleasantly. “Well, I might be
able to do something with them.
Would you let me have the
shears, Mrs. Hopkins?”
Mrs. Hopkins’s mouth closed
with an audible snap, and a little
snort of air puffed from her
nostrils. “I’ll get them,” she said
faintly.
She was in the toolshed before
she remembered she had hidden
the shears. A vague surprise
came upon her, “So
I did,” she thought.
She suddenly felt
very pleased with
herself because she
couldn’t remember
where she had put
them. She knew she
had secreted them in
some very dark
place, somewhere
safe from pruning
fiends ; but she could
honestly say she
couldn’t remember just where.
She had been in a bit of panic
at the time, because as she was
wandering about in the house
with them looking for a cache
she had heard her husband com-
ing up the front path, and she
had poked them haphazardly
into a dark corner. She went
back to Jack Stevens, and was
relieved to find that his shirt,
hat and glasses no longer un-
nerved her.
“I can’t find them,” she said.
“See if you can find them in the
toolshed, will you, while I make
a cup of tea for you.”
She was so elated at her suc-
cessful ruse that the ten minutes
she took in preparing the tea
passed very swiftly, and it was
with somewhat of a shock that
she realised Jack was a long time
coming in. She went to the back
verandah. A gay, piercing
whistle guided her astonished
glance to the rose-bed, where Jack
was busily engaged. His tall,
loosely jointed body was relaxed
in a ballet-like pose, one hand
held jauntily against a hip, the
other holding some clippers with
which he kept up a constant
snipping at the air and at the
bushes as though he were a
fantastic barber.
In her alarm Mrs. Hopkins
shrieked, “Jack !” He turned in
amazement and stared at her in-
quiringly. She forced a shaking
laugh, “I didn’t mean to screech.
Tea’s ready.”
He laughed easily, accepting
her explanation without ques-
tion. “I’ll be in in a tick,” he
said. “Just a couple more and
the deed’s done.”
“What are you using?” she
quavered.
“The good old hedge-clippers,”
he said, “and they make quite
a tidy job, I can tell you.”
AFTER he had left she went
out to inspect the bushes and
found the clippings lying like
wind-blown twigs on the lawn.
She thought with an unusual
asperity, “This isn’t a tidy job
any rate.”
She was gathering them up
when Mr. Pickworth, the barber,
came up the pavement on his
way to the boarding-house for
lunch. His melancholy eye
dwelled on the bushes. “They
don’t look much like Tolputt’s,”
he said dolefully. “I heard you
bought his. Where’d you put
them?”
“These are they,” said Mrs.
Hopkins, standing in front of as
many bushes as possible, her
arms akimbo, her long skirt
swelled by the breeze. Like an
old hen she appeared to be
guarding her last brood of
chickens.
“And they don’t need any
more pruning,” she snapped
querulously.
PicktVorth looked surprised at
her unusual irritability.
“Now, did I say they did?”
he said. “No, I didn’t. If you
want my opinion, which I don’t
suppose you do, they look to
me as though they’ve been
pruned to their backbones. They
look to me like a carcass that’s
been picked clean.”
In a sad sort of way he
looked very satisfied with his
originality. He leaned on the
fence. He sighed heavily. “I
hope Tolputt doesn’t see them,”
he said, ruminating.
“Yes, I certainly
hope old Sam doesn’t
spot them.”
A liveliness came
into his voice and a
speculative expres-
sion displaced his
apathy momentarily.
“I bet he skinned
you for those,” he
said. “I suppose you
didn’t get them for
a penny under
seventeen quid. Eh? Old
Sam’s a rare one for a bargain.
He used t’ try and get me to cut
his hair for a bob because he
said his bald patch took up half
his head. Just imagine a bloke
having the hide to do that?
What’d he say if I asked him
to cut all the fat off his meat
before he weighed it? Seven-
teen quid, eh? Yes, that’s about
what he’d ask for those. He
said to me only the other day
that he wouldn’t take a penny
less for them, and I betcha he
charged you extra for any dirt
on their roots. Eh?”
Mrs. Hopkins said weakly,
“Oh, well, what people ask and
what they get are very often two
different things. I’ll have to go
now. I can see Harvey coming
up the street for his lunch.”
“What were you and that dying


mm
m
mmm
{ I i
Ho. 1 DESIGN: SIZE 3'4|" HIGH, 5-7 i" WIDE
Place Your Order Now
Orders are now being accepted for WUNDER-
LICH Terra-Cotta Fireplace Surrounds to No. 1
Design (as illustrated) also Surrounds for slow
combustion and Wonderheat Stoves. The glaze
finish is a mottled Cream-Buff.
Ask at local Hardware Stores, call MX 2411 or
write to Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney, for details.
F'yfflunclettltcJv
IREPLACE SURROUNDS
OP GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
Th e Ixest
Top class polo ponies are usually thoroughbred strain,
pure or three-quarter bred, selected for compactness, good
conformation, speed and stamina. A “good head” is
essential. Height about 15 to 15.2 hands. Training does
not start until about 4 years old, or older. Most polo
ponies reach their prime at 7 or 8 years
of age, and may then remain good
performers until 13, or even older. A
pony becomes accustomed to the one
rider and, for him, will reveal out-
standing intelligence.
Not until a whisky is five years old
or more does it reach its best age. It
is then a mature and mellow beverage.
Corio Whisky is matured for over five years (more than
double the minimum prescribed by Commonwealth law).
Corio Special
Whisky at its prime .
ClB/1*
fcw
mm
CLOTH
Bwmjwm
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
/ V
Nw\
With exciting
new models-
there's a
for everybody .. .
In time for Xmas giving . . . handsome new
members of the famous Biro family . . . the
New Biro, the Biromatic and Biro de Luxe,
the Presentation Pen.
Select your gifts from the Biro British
Ball Point Pen Family.
For the ladies, choose Biroette, 15/-
Everybody finds Biro Minors
. endlessly useful red, green,
blue, or black, 6/-. .
■ t
ft
/ The New Biro:
/ Smart, streamlined,
/ full-size model. In
grey, maroon or black,
with decorative metal
bands and special non-
slip clip 34/6
I
Biromatic. . . \
Operates on new V
automatic prin- '
ciple. Press top
gently, point clxks
out. press too firmh
AT STATIONERS
JEWELLERS
& STORES
out, press top firmly, \
point slips back. "Rho-
dium"-plated (durable
silver milled finish), 42/-
Gold-plated - - 55/-
THE BRITISH
BALL POINT PEN
o
Pat. No. 122073, 8 Dec., 1943 Pat. No. 133163, 31 Dec., 1943 2/1*
Labrador talking about?” said
her husband when he came in.
“The roses.”
“Ha. Yes, Are they budding
yet?”
Panic rose in Mrs. Hopkins as
he stepped towards the door.
“Oh, do have your lunch now,
dear,” she said breathlessly, “I
won’t be a minute,” he said.
When he came in he looked
rather puzzled. As he flipped
out his serviette from its folds,
he said slowly, “You know, I
didn’t realise I’d pruned them
back as hard as that. Still,” his
voice gathered confidence as he
proceeded, “it’ll do them good.
Old Tolputt was too mean to
prune them back hard. Prob-
ably he only tickled them every
autumn,”
EA.RLY the next morning
young Jack Stevens arrived
in breathless haste. “Mrs. Hop-
kins, I say, Mrs. Hopkins,” he
called urgently.
She hurried to the door,
“Look,” he said, waving some
shears at her, “I’ve simply got
to nick a tiny bit off those
bushes where I pruned them
yesterday. You know I used
those hedge-clippers—and Dad’s
on his way up here now.”
“But he’s—l thought,” stam-
mered Mrs. Hopkins.
“Yes, Well, he was. But he’s
out now. Last night. And he
was yarning with that blithering
ass of a Pickworth this morn-
ing, and he’s coming straight
round to look at the roses.
Pickworth probably saw me
pruning, and if Pop finds out I
used hedge-clippers there’ll be
hell to pay. You know how
stuffy these professionals are. I
won’t be a tick.”
The next five minutes seemed
endless to Mrs. Hopkins. A
frenzied thought came into her
head. “Why do I allow it?
Why don’t I stop it?” She did
nothing.
“Well, that’s done, thank
God,” cried Jack, “Tootaloo!
I’m off before Pop comes on the
scene.”
He vaulted the fence and was
out of the street before his
father turned the far corner.
With trepidation Mrs. Hop-
kins watched Mr. Stevens draw
near. To her he was the epitome
of disaster, as virulent as a
cloud of grasshoppers. She said
to herself firmly, “Now this has
to cease. I simply won’t allow
another soul to touch those
bushes.” She smoothed her
dress and her hair, tucking the
vagrant ends behind her sud-
denly stinging ears. A burning
flush ascended her cheeks and
mottled her nose.
She went to the gate, and
when Mr. Stevens came to a
halt she stared at him goggle-
eyed. He was a short man with
very bowed legs: he often said
this was caused by his constant
squatting in gardens. The drama
of his large dark eyes was skil-
fully accentuated by the mobility
of bushy black brows; his lips
were remarkably red, and as he
was constantly wetting them with
the tip of his pointed tongue
they glistened as though they
were coated with glycerine,
Mrs. Hopkins stared at his
lips. “And how are you, Mr.
Stevens?” she asked faintly. “I
was sorry to hear”
“Where are those bushes of
Tolputt’s?” he interrupted. “That
damn fool of a Pickworth says
they’re half their size. I came
right down to see them,”
His eyes darted over the
garden.
“What!” he cried, in thunder-
ous tones. “Near that fence!
Now that’s the worst possible
location for them. And you’ve
got violets in front and a vine
behind. Good God, woman,
what is this? A wowser’s
bazaar?”
He rode his invisible barrel
over to the bed. Up and down,
up and down he went, his fingers
pulling ceaselessly at his bright
lips, which plopped like fish
rising. At last he stood still,
and striking his chest several
times very hard with his clenched
fist, he glared ferociously at the
trembling Mrs. Hopkins.
“Madam,” h e whispered,
“this is sacrilege.” He paused,
clamped his lips together, writhed
his tormented eyebrows, then
bellowed, “Sacrilege !”
Tears rose to Mrs. Hopkins’s
eyes. She said, like a wrong-
fully accused child, “Well, it’s
not my fault. I haven’t touched
them. Oh dear, what can be
done with them?”
In his wrath he was com-
pletely unmoved by her obvious
distress. He turned his back on
the bushes and Mrs. Hopkins,
and moved towards the path. As
he slammed the gate his voice
surged like a command from
the Deity. “Burial, A decent
burial,” was the edict.
Mrs. Hopkins retired to the
kitchen and had a good cry. At
last her shallow optimism re-
turned, and as she made herself
a cup of tea she thought, “I’ll
just have to be firm next year.
Yes, I must certainly be firm.
After all, I paid twenty-pounds
for them,”


&
P
t'
a
2*
GH
w-
-1W
ass&g£y
m
s!
s?i
s®
c*
«2
**
Vi
kv'«
i*
6^
O’ 1
w o
**
■
7
&
&
/
A happy family life depends not altogether
on how much is in the pay envelope but
rather on how wisely the money is spent.
Money wasted to-day on unnecessary
things deprives the family of the comforts
they should enjoy in the years to come.
It may even deprive the children of a good
education, a real start in life.
The Commonwealth Bank offers you an
easy means of saving any surplus you may
have after paying every day expenses.
Open accounts for yourself and all the
family. Teach your children the value of
money and encourage them to save.
Store up comfort, security and peace of
mind by saving something every week.
piau dale dave now .
MONWEALTH
C
BANK
C.S.B. 30-82.
FLY THE PACIFIC
To UNITED STATES
CANADA
ENGLAND
Gum Mom (Pa
“EMPRESS”
PRESSURISED AIRLINERS
★
MORE ROOM PER
PASSENGER
★
SLEEP ON LAND AT
FIJI AND HONOLULU
AS THE COMPANY’S GUEST
★
EXCELLENT FOOD
UNEQUALLED SERVICE
★
FLY RELAXED AND
ARRIVE REFRESHED
df
STOP-OVER AT HONOLULU IF DESIRED
Fly across the Pacific in luxurious Canadian Pacific 4-engined pres-
surised airliners. Delicious meals superb service. Sleep ashore each
night at Fiji and Honolulu. Hotel room and meals at no extra cost.
There’s more to see on your overseas trip when you fly the Pacific
Canadian Pacific style. Through fare in Australian currency.
■£. For further details apply Canadian Pacific Railway
Company, or Union Steam Ship Co. (General
Agents), 247 George Street, Sydney, and 59
William Street, Melbourne, or any
authorised Tourist Agency.
QomxJUpm
mAIRmUNES
“THE WINGS OF THE WORLD'S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM*
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited Incorporated in Canada
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The NO. I Drink
for wise men
Farmers are devoutly hoping
that on December 10 Pollard
will be declared mill offal.
4* 'l* *J*
“If a man took care of his ligure
as a woman does, and wore a corset,
he would maintain his youthful lines.”
—Correspondent in Sydney “D.T.”
But others would easily read
between them.
4* 4* .4*
“Office junior, city clothing mfg.,
34 bust an advantage, £3 10s. week.”
—Suburban paper.
Model conduct is evidently
required.
4* ■s*
“An election candidate in Victoria
was showered with birdseed this
week.”
Cocky?
Typical.
“The use of battered type to veil
doubtful passages in literature merely
adds fuel to some imaginations....
The effect becomes ludicrous.”
—Literary review.
At last they were shipwrecked
upon an island! Night had
stolen into their paradise like a
black thief studded with dia-
monds that were the stars. As
he gazed at the girl, a deep note
like a ship’s foghorn seemed to
float in from the sea. He sighed
as he drank in the subtle beauty
of her hair, her hands, her
(Ay inn/. mi f /xrT ■. r
A truant curl, wafted by the
evening breeze, played for a
moment upon her rosy cheek.
She stirred.
‘£ol 1 j.'ltyl” she whispered
huskily. Her eyes grew bright,
and he thought quickly before
he answered. Heavens! She
had been the most popular girl
aboard the ship! Men had
thronged round her from eight
bells to the dog-watches. She
had even attracted wolves! A
sudden bead of perspiration ran
down his forehead, poised a
moment on the tip of his nose,
then fell splashingly upon a
passing crustacean which, with a
little cry, darted off to a crevice
in the rocks and i,ft >• {I VA
as the ship’s siren drew slowly
nearer.
Jonas Dill.
4* 4*
“Make sure that your oven is on
the level.”
—Cookery hint in woman’s paper.
Or it may take a rise out of
your cakes and you’ll do your
dough.
4* * 4*
“Lost: Bagpipe in blonde case
near Wynyard station.”
—Suburban paper.
Many people would regard
this as a terrible blow.
“In your married life you meet
rough patches.”— Woman’s paper.
But some wives don’t even
give a darn.
The Green Years.
“Married men live longer because
they are in better training.”
—Actor John Clements.
Perhaps you are inclined to
doubt
The claim that bachelors with
leisure
To find in sport both health and
pleasure
Won’t see their married brothers
out.
Yet it is true; statistics state
This paradoxical survival
Of spouses whose life-spans
outrival
The years of men without a
mate.
And if you wonder why the slim
Athletic types who give no
pledges
Go first, remember lawns and
hedges
Keep husbands in the best of
trim.
BERT.
Affinity.
The Moscow party was hold-
ing its last pre-election con-
clave. Comrade Ratbagge, after
having ordered members to give
the clenched-fist salute to por-
traits, side by side on the wall,
of Uncle Joe, the super-Socialist,
and Abe Lincoln, or at least an
impersonator of him.
“Comrades,” he began “as
“ Don't talk now—you'll confuse me!"
we enter the final week of the
campaign let us, like the great
men of the Politburo from
whom we take our orders and
our pay, be realists.
“Forget the phony ‘war’ with
the A.L.P. which may at times
have puzzled some of the rank-
and-file who are unaware of the
true relationship between us.
Like the Socialists, we aim for
the eventual totalitarian State
and full regimentation of labor.
The only difference is that they
faint-heartedly boggle at the
methods that we propose to
adopt in due course.
“That same phony ‘war’ was,
of course, kept going by us on
orders from the Kremlin and by
our natural allies through some
stooges and fellow-travellers we
have in high—in very high—
places in ‘Labor’s’ political
wing. That it has hoodwinked
thousands of voters is something
we are both hoping for.
“Remember, our relationship
with political ‘Labor’ is really
most cordial. And why shouldn’t
it be? There is nothing illogical
about it. We control, with the
exception of the A-W.U.,
the most powerful ‘key’
unions, and we have only to
threaten to disaffiliate and there-
fore wreck ‘Labor’s’ finances to
make them come to heel, which
they do with all speed. No
‘Labor’ politician dare kick over
the traces —you observed with
what promptness and obse-
quiousness five of them toed our
carpet on the coalfields a week
or so ago and obediently made
the explanations we demanded.
“In return our party naturally
enjoys one of the most im-
portant of the Atlantic Charter
freedoms: freedom from fear.
We can with complete impunity
and immunity pursue the job for
which we are well paid of
wrecking the Australian economy
through sudden and paralysing
strikes in ‘key’ industries, and of
dictating through our control of
the wharfies the country’s foreign
policy. When any of our top
comrades get the Kremlin’s call
to attend any Asian conference
to help organise terror cam-
paigns against the imperialistic
British, has any ever been re-
fused passport or visa? Cer-
tainly not. And so long as our
‘Labor’ friends are in power we
can look forward with confi-
dence to a continuance of that
indulgence. The fact that we have
had important members ap-
pointed to lucrative Govern-
ment posts, on boards and com-
mittees, representing the Gov-
ernment overseas, and to the
vital C.5.1.R.0., bears witness to
the sympathetic bond existing
between us.
“Let us especially at this stage
give a kindly thought to Doc.
Evatt, the man who had released
two of our members from
prison and who not only pro-
nounced the benediction of
legality over our party but has
kept it going despite our causing
hundreds of millions of pounds’
worth of damage to the coun-
try’s economy in the interests of
our masters overseas.
“Bearing all these things in
mind, is it likely that next Satur-
day we’ll turn on the pals who
have been so good to us since
1941? Does even the bourgeoisie
kill its Santa Claus?
“Of course we don’t expect to
win a single seat in the new
House. We don’t need to. Why
bother to run the ‘Labor’ party
from inside the House when we
can do it much more effectively
from outside? Putting up our
no-hope candidates time after
time offers good lip-service to
democracy and fools some of
the mob. Most of our nominees,
we are well aware, will pour
their deposits down the sink.
But that won’t embarrass the
party financially don’t be
funny!”
“But to ensure our party’s
continued wellbeing, its free-
dom to wreck, it is plain com-
monsense for us to back Chifley,
our great benefactor. That’s
why we’ll give ‘Labor’ our
preferences in the usual way.
You all know your orders for
the final week: organise into
your prearranged heckling-blocs
for all Liberal meetings and into
cheer-blocs in support of Ben.
Remember, his return will speed
the hour when the revolution of
the proletariat will strike here.
“Recall that in every central
European and Balkans country
now incorporated into the Soviet
system it was a Socialist Gov-
ernment, without exception, that
paved the way for the Com-
munist coup.
“We confidently expect to take
over from the supine ‘Labor’
mob within three years: that is,
in tifne to prevent the next elec-
tion in 1952. After that the
purges and liquidations will
start in earnest.
“Heil, Joe! And let us join
in giving three hearty Soviet
sneers for our friend Ben
Lincoln.”
80.
Natural Course.
“Wives err in assuming that men
need a lot of food. A three-day fast
once a month is one of my prescrip-
tions for a longer, healthier life.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.’’
My man was firmly bound to me
By fetters of gastronomy ;
Exulting in my certain power,
I baked fresh dainties every
hour,
Thinking still stronger chains I'd
forge
If I encouraged him to gorge !
Alas! That I should live to
know
That science could defeat me so !
For now, since eating is taboo,
I find he does without me, too.
JEAN STANGER.


w
"Tv
%
£4
rVW *r
M
t,o«6'*" ee
4
topic
air-nae
/00% /fas/raZ/a#. C6a*r/>rcns of me &ae/
A PRODUCT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
, OT 30.16.49
H
m
Wi
'^r A 'w* . i
k
IF YOU GIVE HIM A
Gillette
•v\\
m
trs
rmriTs^
a
4**
Christmas -good mornings-
BEGIN WITH Gillette
ONE-PIECE
RAZOR
It’s the handiest easiest-
shaving razor money
can buy. Twist the
razor opens! Drop in
the blade, twist again—
it’s ready for use. No
fumbling with loose
parts, nothing to mislay.
Other Gillette sets range
from as low as 4/Bd. Also
popular, is the new blade •
Dispenser containing 20
Blue Gillette Blades at 6J- .
Gillette No. 22. A plated
“Aristocrat” One-Piece
razor with 10 Blue
Gillette Blades in a
Dispenser. Leatherette-
covered metal case has
plated rims, satin and
velvet lining. 37/6.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Doubles bookies who had been
rather at a loss for a suitable brace
of neddies to head their Villiers-
Summer Cup charts had the problem
solved for the nonce when Sheba and
Dark Marne won the Varroville and
Homebush Handicaps at Randwick
on Saturday. Both good perform-
ances and entitled to respect, but
present observer has a notion that a
nag named Karachi is going to take
quite a bit of beating in whichever-
leg of the double he should tackle.
Distance of the Varroville was only
6 furlongs, but Sheba (G. Moore)
won in fashion to suggest that the
mile of the Villiers may not be
beyond her. In the early stages she
was lying in a fairly handy position
in about fifth place, with Riptide
doing the pacemaking. Round the
turn Moore was obliged to take Sheba
fairly wide, but on straightening up
she soon reached the front, and ran
on very well to hold off a fast-
finishing Grey Boots, who was beaten
a half-length; third was Phalanx.
Sheba’s past performances certainly
show that she is capable of a mile.
In the course of a two-year-old career
which embraced nine starts for three
wins, three seconds and one third
she carried topweight of 8.11 to win
the Fernhill Handicap, first mile race
of the season for two-year-olds in
Sydney. The unplaced brigade on
that occasion included Saturday’s
runner-up Grey Boots and an animal
named Foxzami. Among other good
performances as a three-year-old last
season, Sheba conceded other fillies
of her age 211 b. and upwards to win
the mile St. Aubins Handicap and
carried 9.4 to win a mile Three-year-
old Quality in which Foxzami, toth
9.5, finished fourth.
Despite the presence of W. Cook
in the saddle and the mediocrity of
the horses opposing him, Dark Marne
started at 14 to 1 for the 12-furlongs
Homebush Handicap seemingly
generous odds about a horse of Dark
Marne’s proven calibre, but quite
justified by his disappointing form
over recent months. However, the
Sydney Cup winner produced a rea-
sonable facsimile of his best form
to win the Homebush by three-parts
of a length from Kerry Lad and
Protect. Moving up from a fair way
back to take the lead entering the
straight, and going comfortably, the
New Zealand-bred Kerry Lad looked
the winner, but Dark Marne, after,
as is his wont, being among the tail-
enders most of the trip, found an
opening on the rails and unwound a
cracking finish for his closish victory.
Dark Marne carried 9.7, and fof
the Summer Cup has 9.5, at which
weight a horse who has won a Sydney
Cup and been beaten a nose in the
Melbourne Cup must have a strong
chance. However, Dark Marne’s
recently very indifferent performances
suggest that it would be wise to await
further, evidence that he has really
struck form.
The success of Gold Coin (J.
Thompson) in the Strathfield Juvenile
for colts and geldings was of interest
as the New Zealand-bred colt is a
son of the newly-imported sire Gold
Nib, few of whose progeny have
been seen in action here. A good
performer himself in England, Gold
Nib is by Dastur (sire of Dhoti)
from Gold Race (the daughter of a
half-sister to Foxbridge), and thus
combines two lines which have proven
most successful in Australasia over
recent years. Coming home with a
long, strong run in the straight, Gold
Coin was much too good for Lucky
Draw and the odds-on favorite Star-
light, who turned up his toes badly
when tackled. The Greystanes Nur-
sery for two-year-old fillies went to
Charlotte (N. Sellwood), with Canoe
and Prairie Fire in the places; both
minor placegetters impressed as likely
to have their turn in the near future.
For a last-start winner (and on
that occasion a warm favorite) the
Dhoti colt Chitral was at surprisingly
long odds for the mile Three-year-old
Handicap. As much as 8 to 1 was
available, and he started at sixes to
win by several lengths from the
favorite, Crag Son.
* * * *
For Saturday’s Melbourne Racing
Club meeting at Caulfield racegoers
were smiled upon both by the
weather and by the luck of the game.
The bookies were waxing mighty
“ Don't bother , Alf —I never use it.”
doleful until the success of Dupont
(G. Balsarini) at 12 to 1 in the final
race inspired what passes as a look
of contentment among the bag-
swinging fraternity.
Among other successful favorites,
old Latani turned in a particularly
good effort to take the Durham
Hurdle in the face of a sizeable dis-
advantage in the weights; admittedly
it was a poor bunch that he beat.
Latani, who started at threes, carried
12.7; nearest him in the weights were
Rebel Regis and Bell Tower, each
with 10.7, while King’s Walk (10.2)
was the only other runner in the lOst.
division. Latani’s rider, R. Hall,
evidently accurately identified Rebel
Regis as his most dangerous
opponent and kept his mount just
trailing that horse all the way. Rebel
Regis led over the last jump, but
Latani wore him down in the run
home to score by a head.
Most-fancied runners in the Clayton
Stakes for two-year-olds were the
two fillies Slick Chick (W. William-
son) and El Tovar; they were equal-
topweights with 8.9, and duly fought
out the finish, the odds-on favorite
Slick Chick scoring by three-parts of
a length with a powerful finishing
burst.
As a test of “stamina” the 12-
furlongs Noble Park Handicap was
a good Oakleigh Plate trial —a dis-
pirited crawl for the first mile, then
a rattling sprint for the post. Blank
Music proved the best sprinter on
the day ; lighting out in great style
after being last at the half-mile, he
won by a half-length from Milford,
with the outsider Glen Devon third
and the favorite Colin’s Pride fourth.
Evidently much benefited by an 11-
months spell, the Portofino four-year-
old Regular Port (J. Purtell) faced
up to a bunch of pretty fair sprinters
in the Holyrood Handicap (6f.) and
simply ran them off their legs.
Betting suggested that the win had
not been altogether unanticipated;
Regular Port started at sixes and won
by nearly three lengths from the
favorite, Prince Ben.
* * ♦ ♦
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Two-year-old (fillies): Honey way,
1; Canoe, 2; Prairie Fire, 3. Two-
year-old (colts and geldings):
Hioniti, 1; Battle of Agincourt, 2;
Lucky Draw, 3. Parramatta Mixed:
Matinee, 1; Carriole, 2; Lady Kris-
tine, 3. Rosehill Handicap: Bay
Rex, 1; Johnny Zero, 2; Cape Ned-
dick, 3. Festival Handicap: Phalanx,
1; Barnsley, 2; Karachi, 3. Auburn
Mixed; Ballroom, 1; Frescano, 2;
Tamunga, 3. Welter: Chessman, 1;
Caribbean, 2; Valilla, 3.
♦ ♦ * ♦
Mentioned here last week, the
adjourned stewards inquiry into the
running of Blue Lass in the Flying
Handicap at Canterbury on Novem-
ber 26 resulted in explanations being
accepted all round. (
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
The braw Scot’s reputation as a
man able to keep a close eye (and a
closer grip) on a bawbee has been
enhanced no end by a sudden bright
thought on the part of that national
institution the Royal and Ancient
Club of St. Andrews —they’ve copy-
righted the rules of golf. Now, it
appears, anyone wishing to publish
the rules with latest amendments will
have to fork over royalties. Aye,
canny indeed! •
The Australian professional
championship at Royal Perth last
week resulted in a final between K.
Nagle (N.S.W.) and Naismith (Vic.),
with Nagle winning 7 up and 5.
Nagle, who had beaten Cremin in
the semi-final, is a very hefty cus-
tomer; he outdrove Naismith on
nearly every hole and had the other
shots to finish the job.
* * * *
Something of an oddity, and cer-
tainly a poser for the umpires, turned
up in a Sydney grade cricket match,
Petersham v. Northern District, on
Saturday. The last ball of what was
agreed to be the last over of the day
took Petersham’s ninth wicket. No-
thing difficult in that, except that
Petersham’s 11th man was known to
be injured, unable to play, and not
present at the ground. The umps
ruled it a draw, only nine wickets
having fallen. Northern District,
however, has appealed to the Associa-
tion, claiming a first-innings win,
and there is some hope for them in a
ruling given by the M.C.C. after a
practically identical incident in Mel-
bourne some years back had been
submitted to headquarters for judg-
ment. The M.C.C. ruled that, as the
player was not at the ground, the
innings had been completed and the
opposing team had won.
* * * *
With one day to play in the Shef-
field Shield match Vic. v. W.A. at
Perth, the Victorians, with 239 and
306, looked set for an easy outright
win over Westralia (154 and 2 for
61), but the home team made a fight
of it right to the finish. A solid,
cautious and chanceless 104 by R.
Frankish was the backbone of Wes-
tralia’s second innings; W. Driver
played contrastingly brilliant cricket
for his 80, and, with others contribut-
ing their share, the total was 389 —
23 runs short of the necessary.
♦ ♦ ♦ *
To record, against Orange Free
State, their third successive innings-
victory, the Australian cricket tourists
turned on some dazzling fast scoring
—if anything rather too much of a
feast in its showing-up of the deficien-
cies of the opposition. With a
Loxton-Harvey partnership contribut-
ing 99 in 45 minutes and 200 in 100
minutes, Hassett mercifully closed the
first innings with 3 down for 405.
In reply the Orange Free State col-
lected 135 and 131. On then to
Capetown, where the tourists tackled
Western Province Country Districts;
with the match unfinished at time of
writing, Australia’s first innings had
yielded 235 and the opposition’s 189.
* * * *
Preluded by the traditional inter-
state match N.S.W. v. Vic., which
Victoria won 12 rubbers to 9, the
Victorian tennis championships got
under way at Kooyong, Melbourne,
on Friday. There were no upsets in
early rounds, although the promising
youngsters Merv Rose and Ken
McGregor labelled themselves poten-
tial Davis Cup material in fully
extending Sidwell and Drobny re-
spectively. Regarding the inter-State
matches, it’s about time the authori-
ties, if they have any interest in die
box-office appeal of these fixtures,
had a few quiet words in the respec-
tive lugs of some of our leading
players. In any other sport selection
to represent one’s State is a sought-
after honor, but some of our bright
lads seem to look upon playing in
the inter-State tennis matches as a
boring duty, and reserve their efforts
purely for the championships.
* * * *
The Aussie Rules game has invaded
another stronghold of other codes.
With teams formed by Australian
students, Oxford and Cambridge Var-
sities did battle at Cambridge last
week, Oxford having much the best
of the matter —12.6-3.13.
* * * *
A four from Sydney’s Haberfield
Rowing Club earned themselves the
right to represent in New Zealand
next year when they won the Empire
Games fours test race on Lake Wen-
douree, Ballarat, on Saturday. Rowed
over the recognised Olympic distance
of 2000 metres (still inexcusably not
adopted for major Australian
championships) the test was a splen-
did race; Haberfield led all the way,
but were never more than a length
clear and won by about that margin
from another Sydney crew, Leich-
hardt.


is »
VA
msSmszA
ordon's
St&ndP Suptemai
m
Sis
By Appointment
CLa Distillers
r U H.M. King George Vf'
ftvqueray. Cordon & Co U#
Q'tia&y
as in great
grandfather’s day—
Pastoralists profit from
the complete and efficient
service of A.M.L.&F*
Sale of wool • Stock and produce
Pastoral finance • Station requirements
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE CM. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 BUSH STBEET, SYBBEY
pad at Melbourne and Brisbane,
Country Branches—-N-S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Oowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Charleville, St
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agent*: McPhie As Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
AML.F
Inc. in England 1863
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Rival for D.D.T.?
“Agric”: Brisbane scientists
are enthusiastic regarding the
possibilities in tick-control of
an insecticide known as E 605
(Diethy-p-nitrophenyl thiophos-
phate) discovered by a German
scientist during the war. In a
statement issued at the time the
British Intelligence Service ob-
tained information about E 605,
it was thought it would not find
much application in the field of
animal parasites on account of
its high toxicity. Meantime the
preparation has been used
mainly in horticulture.
In a test at Yeerongpilly Ani-
mal Health Station with the pro-
duct prepared for horticultural
purposes a strength of one in
10,000 was used. Many of the
adult ticks and some of the en-
gorged nymphs escaped destruc-
tion, but nearly all the younger
ticks were destroyed. A supply
of crude E 605 sufficient for test-
ing purposes in tick-control has
now been received at the station,
and it is thought that it may
prove effective against ticks at
one in 20,000.
As it is said to decompose
rather rapidly, E 605 has so far
been tested as a spray only, but
chemists have found ways and
means of breaking down other
organic substances into powder
form. It is authoritatively stated
that a quart of E 605, costing
about £2, should be sufficient to
charge a cattle-dip if it proves
efficacious at one in 20,000. It is
this low concentration which
gives E 605 such an advantage
over other known insecticides.
In the annual report of the
Queensland Department of Agri-
culture Dr. M. White (chemist
and biochemist) states that
phosphorus compounds promised
to outrival other insecticides for
the control of external parasites
in’ animals and plants.
The Cutworm Season.
“Mrs. B.”: The fattening
season has opened to a flying
start on New England, and
breeders there have gained valu-
able experience in breeding and
rearing these amusing nocturnal
nematodes, and some interesting
points have been established.
As a general rule, the better
the farming methods, the more
satisfactory will be the condition
of the soil for rearing cutworms.
Plough in autumn or early
winter, allowing the ground as
long a fallow as possible so that
the worm is left undisturbed
during the critical incubation
and hatching period. The lazy
farmer who ploughs just before
sowing will damage the breed-
ing-cells.
Once a good worming has
taken place—and the farmer
must keep an eye on this by
frequent sub-soil inspections—
the ground must be scarified and
harrowed, so that the young
worms can move freely about in
the well-worked soil. Heavy
earth clods and rough cultivation
are detrimental, causing undue
fatigue to the worm in its search
for food.
Next the fattening crop must
be sown, and on our place this
year the crop chosen was maize,
with outstanding results. The
farmer will find, too, that the
valuable hybrid varieties, norm-
ally grown for seed, will well
repay the extra time and trouble
taken in the sowing. Check-
row planting, too, is
important, as the plants
growing equidistant in
each direction will en-
sure regular eating
habits and exercise for
the cutworms as they move
from one meal to another.
Now comes the most critical
stage of the breeding programme.
It is a little-known but estab-
lished fact that the young worm
in its early stages actually‘prefers
weeds to the fattening crop.
There is the risk that ‘an unre-
stricted diet of weeds, apart
from their lack of nutritional
value, will cause bloating and
loss of life. It is imperative then,
once the fattening crop has been
sown, that the ground is culti-
vated and kept absolutely clean,
so that the worms are keen to
turn on to the maize as soon as
it sprouts. They can eat this off
while the plants are in their most
succulent and nutritional stage.
The Department of Agri-
culture recommended a bait of
Paris green and bran, apparently
to thin out the worms and give
the survivors a chance to fatten.
If that’s the idea it has succeeded
—our fat cutworm season looks
like being a record.
An English System.
“C.A.A.”: An interesting
development in England is main-
taining organic content of soils
by the farming of areas without
using livestock or any form of
stable-manure. Every arable
crop (barley, wheat or linseed)
is undersown with trefoil or
Italian rye-grass. The cover
crop is combine-harvested, the
crop below makes good growth
by autumn, meets with the
stubble and decomposing Straw
and is then ploughed under.
Experience shows that this
method gives all the added
humus content the soil needs to
produce good crops. In addi-
tion, dressings of compound
fertilisers are given when sowing
the crop and a topdressing of
nitro chalk is given afterwards.
It is claimed for the system cost
of grain production per acre has
been considerably reduced.
Peas for Market.
“Biro”: Pea-growing is not as
popular as it should be because
losses occur when markets are
glutted. To avoid them large
areas should not be grown
unless sowings are made at in-
tervals long enough to give time
for picking at the right stage
and to avoid clashing with the
gluts which follow good rains.
When a large area is under
peas it usually happens that
part of the crop becomes too
ripe for best prices while being
picked. If picking begins too
early the immature peas do not
keep well. The answer is
periodic planting and mechani-
cal harvesting.
Country Shows.
“Rooster”; Main value is that
they exhibit to the public, and
particularly to those interested in
stock, the qualities and general
“Do you believe in reincarnation, my dear ?”
merits of the various breeds. The
studbreeder parades his selected
stock and shows them to best
advantage. This may not always
be remunerative. Many exhibi-
tors spend large sums of money
on preparing and entering their
stock and never gain a prize ; but
if the animals are good showing
them is a good advertisement.
Country shows also foster
healthy competition. They afford
the breeder an opportunity of
comparing types and noting the
qualities and defects of his own
stock. In the showring good
and bad points necessarily con-
trast. From this viewpoint it is
educative, as all stud-owners
realise. Often they get together
and discuss vital problems. Con-
flicting opinions are freely ex-
pressed, and conclusions drawn
from which all benefit. Every-
body studies the fancies of ex-
hibitors and their conception of
an ideal animal. This ideal
should be encouraged, and, if
possible, the breeder should be
a regular exhibitor.
Frequent change of blood is
desirable in most herds. Stock-
shows afford valuable'' oppor-
tunities of studying rival types,
and of selecting the type you
think will best serve your own.
Finally, overseas breeders recog-
nise that in Australia we have
ideal conditions for the breeding
of stud stock. The shows are a
perfect medium for advertising
the high quality of our cattle to
overseas purchasers.
Wheat at Wagga.
“Dick Turpin”: Judging of
wheat-crops for the R.A.S. and
local competitions in Wagga
(N.S.W.) district indicated that
yields will be good, some crops
being estimated as high as 16
bags.
Diseases were present, but to a
limited extent. Most resistant
wheat was Bordan; one of the
disappointments was Gabo.
There was rust, particularly in
Gabo, Dundee and Ford, and
glume rot, septoria and take-all
were seen.
Wagga District Agronomist,
T. S. Rudkin, who judged the
crops, said hard things about
seed-grading. Strange heads
marred nearly all crops; in one
case Bordan was riddled with
Ford. Rudkin said the fault lay
with contract seed-graders who
were too tired to clean out their
plant.
One pleasing fact is the extent
to which pastures are being sown
in the district. Most men sowed
rye and sub.-clover with their
wheat, and the good season has
given them a very satisfactory
strike.
Zinnias.
“F.L.”: Few flowers stand up
to hot-weather conditions and
make a better show than
zinnias. Seeds may be planted
now thinly in rows a foot apart;
and when plants begin to form
buds, cut out the centre bud to
make the bushes spread and be-
come sturdier. Give one or two
good waterings weekly by letting
water run around the roots.
Zinnias are excellent for cut
flowers, and last longer if stems
are scalded as soon as picked.
Pick blooms in the early morn-
ing and change water in vases
daily.
Like the phlox, zinnias bloom
right into May, until frosts be-
come severe. The small lilliput
type is noted for its many colors,
and makes nice borders for the
larger variety.
Coccidiosis in. Poultry.
Coccidiosis is
probably the most destructive
poultry disease. Highly infec-
tious, it is often first known to
be present only by seeing one or
more dead birds in the pen. The
remainder will later huddle to-
gether, droop their wings and
close their eyes. A less acute
attack will cause general un-
thriftiness and loose feathers. It
is advisable to forward dead
birds to a laboratory for
examination to obtain a definite
diagnosis.
Where birds are found dead,
a careful examination of the pen
will show bloodstains in the
droppings. A post-mortem on a
dead chick will show the two
caeca (blind guts) inflamed and
distended with blood. Birds be-
tween two and 10 weeks are
usually affected with caecal
coccidiosis. Another form
attacks older birds and is hard
to recognise. Drying of the
comb, a false moult and loose-
ness of feather are the usual
symptoms. This form attacks
the duodenum or small intestine
and is known as duodenal
poccidiosis. Though the mortality
rate with this form is not high,
few affected birds recover.
Unhealthy birds should be for-
warded to a laboratory for
microscopic examination.
Good results are being ob-
tained with sulphaguanidine and
sulphamezathine. Although
treatment is not cheap, the results
more than compensate for the
amounts involved. Early recog-
nition and treatment are im-
portant..
Botulism.
“Myrrhee”: It usually ap-
pears as the weather warms.
The germ thrives in decaying
animal- or vegetable-matter,
which cattle are fond of chew-
ing. Bones and animal carcasses
are the chief source, and milk-
ing-cows and growing stock are
more subject to attack owing to
their greater food requirements.
Control measures include ade-
quate feeding and sufficient
minerals. Use one of these
mixtures as a lick or, if stock
arp hand-fed, mixed in with the
feed: (a) salt 50 p.c., lime 25
p.c., bonemeal 25 p.c.; (h) salt
80 p.c., lime 10 p.c., bonemeal
10 p.c.
Destroy old fodder damaged
by vermin, moulds or wet;
gather and burn all bones and
carcasses.
For Pruning.
“Jindivick”: Ladders are
dangerous and heavy to move
around when pruning. Nothing
beats a lorry for manoeuvr-
ability and expeditious coverage
of the trees. A couple of pack-
ing-cases or firmly-fixed trestles
from which the pruner, with
long plough-reins, can drive the
horse, as well as reach anywhere
up or into the tree, saves a lot
of running up and down ladders
and lumping them around. An
added advantage with a lorry is
that an incinerator can easily
be added or attached to the
equipment, thereby enabling the
prunings to be destroyed on the
spot and obviating the necessity
for collecting and carting off at
the end of the job.
Vegetable Rotation.
“M.”: Within the confined
limits of most home vegetable
gardens where culture really is
intense, rotation of crops is
essential to maintenance of soil-
fertility. The ideal sequence is
(1) leaf crops, tomatoes and vine
vegetables—using stable-manure
or compost; (2) root crops—
using super, but no stable-
manure ; (3) legumes —using


“Mu-metal
saves
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1, 4. 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-.
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mall Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Foldej
describing action of NU-METAL,
Kame. »•••••« •••*»•• •• •
Address. •• • • • ••• *4
B. 7/12/M9
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250
ifTTHJI
MMEI
. vv*
Me tkan
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney's
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
teen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
bustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WEHTWOBTH
in
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
1
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelidr
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose & Co.Pty.Ltd.Klng St. Sydney
SEE
THE
ff
Marguerite Chap-
man in a scene
from “The Green
Promise.”
i
m
m
■ ■
fj
This is a shot from a film you’ll never forget, “The
Green Promise,” a warm, human drama that is
part of your life. It is a film in which every
Australian will recognise a stirring message.
Realising the significance of this great film, Allis-
Chalmers were proud to co-operate in its produc-
tion. That is why you’ll recognise familiar friends
in the “supporting” roles—Allis-Chalmers modern
farming equipment. For in America, as in
Australia, Allis-Chalmers is recognised as the leader
in mechanised farming. See “The Green Promise”
-—and enter the Allis-Chalmers Essay Contest.
11/93.13 __
AND WIN
£BO
IN PRIZES
Allis-Chalmers, in co-opera*
tion with R.K.O. Radio Pic-
tures and "The Australian
Junior Farmer" Magazine,
offer two grand prizes for
the best essays entitled
"The Significance of 'The
Promise' to Aus-
tralian Farmers."
There are Two Classes in
this section of the contest.
1. The Allis-Chalmers
Award. £4O for the best
essay by a member of a
"Junior Farmers" or "Young
Farmers" Club.
2. The R.K.O.—"Australian
Junior Farmer" Award. £2O
for the best essay by a
practising farmer or farm-
ing student between 21 and
30 years.
CONDITIONS: No entry fee.
Essays should not exceed
1,000 words. Essays in Class
1 should be addressed to
"The Green Promise" Essay
Contest, c/o Allis-Chalmers
Manufacturing Co., Shell
House, Carrington Street,
Sydney. Class 2 to The
Australian Junior Farmers'
Magazine, 16 Bridge Street,
Sydney. Closing date
March 30th, 1950.
Winning Essays will be pub-
lished in "The Australian
Junior Farmer" Magazine.
No correspondence regard-
ing entries will be entered
into.
A further prize of £2O !i being
offered by the publishers of
"Power Farming in Australia and
N.Z." for the best essay titled
"Erosion Control, Prevention and
Reclamation Using Tractors and
Machinery." This section is open
to all-comers, irrespective of age
or occupation, and entries should
be addressed to "Power Farm-
ing," Box 1813, G.P.0., Sydney.
Judge's decision is final.
HUB - CHALMERS
BACKED BY NATION-WIDE DEALER SERVICE
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
\
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting,
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
,
■ -
m m
V
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Ft. Road, Five Dock.
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC,
super., and digging in the plants
after the final harvest. Start
again with a leaf crop and avoid
using crops of the same type or
family on the same plot twice in
succession. Don’t follow carrots
with parsnips, 'for example, or
cabbages with cauliflowers,
onions with leeks or tomatoes
with potatoes.
To Beat Snails.
“Myrrhee”; For snails and
slugs; loz. of calcium arsenate,
11b. of bran (about nine break-
fast cups) and one pint of water.
Mix the ingredients dry, then
make into a crumbly mash with
the water. Scatter the bait in a
thin layer in the late afternoon
or at night, ag it’s unattractive to
the pests when dry. With this
poison both shellbacks and slugs
go under cover to die, so that
the absence of either in the
morning doesn’t mean that the
bait’s ineffective. An alterna-
tive i§ more spectacular, the vic-
tims never getting far, but the
chemical isn’t always easy to
come by. It’s made by mixing
|oz. of finely-powdered metal-
dehyde with 11b. of bran and
one pint water. Set it out in the
evening as small pellets.
Temporary Pasture.
“Mr.”: To get the most out
of a short-term pasture on land
intended for the plough sow
annual or biennial species that
make rapid growth in their first
and second year. Choose from
sub., alsike, crimson, nodding or
clustered clovers, and Wimmera
or Italian rye-grass and prairie-
grass, using according to the
annual rainfall.
In Victoria, where the average’
is lower than 20in., sow an early-
flowering variety of sub. clover
—Dwalganup, Bacchus Marsh
or cluster clover with Wimmera
rye, using 31b. each of the clover
and the grass-seed. In the 20-
30in, rainfall belt use a mid-
season sub.-clover with Wim-
mera rye; and on country with
a fall of over 30in. try a mixture
of Italian rye, prairie-grass, sub.-
clover, alsike and red clovers.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”: Use “banding”
when applying fertiliser to the
vegetable garden, particularly for
peas, beans and potatoes. It in-
volves placing the fertiliser in
narrow bands 2in. from each side
of the seed-row before sowing
and at a depth of 2in. to 3in.
below the seed. Apply side
dressings to growing plants 3in.
to 4in. deep and 4in. to 6in. away
from stems of plants.
“Sundowner”: Garden- and
field-mites may be checked by
spraying a mixture of loz. of
50 p.c. D.D.T. wettable powder
or 3oz. of 20 p.c. D.D.T. emul-
sion in three gallons of water in
the warmest part of a sunny day.
For field crops use one part of
carbolic powder and four parts
of super, of lime at the rate of
per acre through a
manure - spreader, preferably
after autumn rains. If these
measures are to be effective areas
must be free of capeweed—a
favorite host of these pests.
“Big Billy”: When sowing
lucerne lin. to depth is
best in heavy soils and lin. to
2|in. in lighter or sandy soils.
Sow on sandy soil at increasing
depths as Water-level becomes
lower in the topsoil. If lucerne-
flea is not troublesome best time
for sowing ia the autumn, in con-
junction with a cereal crop,
otherwise August or September
is advised.
“Sundowner”: Scab on apri-
cots can be reduced by 75 per
cent, by the application of Bor-
deaux mixture, 6-4-40. To pre-
pare spray dissolve 121 b. of
finely-crystalline copper sulphate
in 72gal. of water in an 80gal.
spray vat. Mix 121 b. of hydrated
lime with Bgal. of water, start
agitators and slowly pour in lime
solution. If only about lOgal.
of spray is required use of
copper in sgal. of water. Dis-
solve Hlb. of hydrated lime or
11b. of quicklime in another
sgal. Mix the two solutions.
Best time for the spray is at the
end of May and again at pink-
bud stage about mid-August.
“Rooster”: When planting
tomatoes avoid too abundant
watering and manuring until
they reach the flowering stage,
If seedlings are planted in soil
well soaked the day before plant-
ing they won’t need watering for
a week or more. Keep the soil
consistently moist but not
soaked. Stakes must be inserted
before planting.
“Rower L.”: For a splash of
color right through summer and
autumn few annua ls equal phlox
drummondi, which will thrive
a i mQ st any situation. Seed
ma y SOW n now until
Christmas, and thinned out to
meet re q U i remen ts as soon as
plants are hig enough to handle,
pj ants ma y he put in now, and
hloom until the first severe
f rosts arr j ve> panted in a sunny
situation, and helped along with
occasional doses of liquid
manure during the growing
period, they will thrive without
any trouble.
“8.A.T.”: Derris powder will
cure head-lice in fowls. Mix it
with cornflower or starch powder
and rub it into the base of
feathers about the head, accord-
ing to directions given with it.
For body-lice, fumigation is
advised. The fumigant (nicotine
sulphate) is brushed along the
perches just before the birds go
to roost. The rising fumes suffo-
cate the parasites.
“Baroona”: Where water is
scarce see that silver-beet plants
are kept cut so that they are not
supporting leaves that won’t be
used. Feed discarded leaves
to the fowls before they’re let
out in the morning, or after
they’ve been shut in late in the
day. Where dry conditions pre-
vail the egg supply is improved
if the hens make the most of the
little green-feed that is available,
“C.A.A.”; Most satisfactory
method of dealing with channel
weeds is the scoop or dragline
excavator, which removes the
roots and gives a reasonable
trouble-free period. Cutting the
top-growth is merely a palliative
and usually leads to such rapid
regrowth that its usefulness is
greatly minimised.
“M.”; To color concrete mix
the cement and color dry. In
the stronger colors the propor-
tions would be one part of color
to eight parts of cement, for
the lighter one in seven, remem-
bering that the color will lighten
as the concrete dries. Color is
necessary only in the final £in.
layer of concrete, and it shows to
better advantage when used with
sharp, clean stone-dust rather
than sand,


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others per line.
Harvest Camps
In Great Britain at the end of the war
I thought that a good way of learning
about the country would be to spend a
fortnight at one of the harvest camps
scattered throughout the land. I went
to Broadhaven, in Pembrokeshire, by the
Atlantic coast, one of the best Welsh
rural districts. There were 30 in the
party —men and women. When we
finished another 30 moved in.
These camps are wonderful institutions
and a great aid to British farmers during
labor shortages. All the year round
people are taking holidays ; some cannot
pay their way and others like the idea
of holidaying on a farm. Either way
they get paid for their work, have their
meals supplied, live in a hostel provided
with games, music, dancing and enjoyable
company. By day, except when the
weather is wet, they work at many and
varied agricultural tasks.
Started as part of the war effort, these
camps have continued and probably will
remain a firm fixture in Britain’s farming
life. They are directed from regional
offices —to go to Broadhaven, 200 miles
west, I applied at Cardiff. I could have
gone to Hereford, but I should have had
to apply at Gloucester.
With labor so short for Australian
farms at present a similar harvest-camp
system could be adopted here. There
should be no dearth of applicants—they
get a free holiday and pay in proportion
to the work they do.
Many Australians have never been out
of their capital cities. Many more have
never been more than 100 miles from
their home. Harvest camps would en-
courage city folk to see their country, to
appreciate the farmers’ outlook and in-
dustry, to take up farm work themselves,
and to appreciate country life.—K. H. H
(S.A.).
“An Old Race”?
“Dee” is mistaken in thinking that be-
cause Australians are of overwhelmingly
British extraction they, unlike the
Americans with their very mixed ancestry,
have no claim to be called a young
people (B. 26/10/’49). Australians are
as much a new people as are the Ameri-
cans. The British peoples are not all of
one stock. They have a number of racial
strains. There has also been a good deal
of foreign immigration to England, par-
ticularly in the 19th century. Settlers came
to Australia from every part of each of
the four home countries, and a certain
proportion from foreign lands. They
have mingled their blood indiscriminately.
Not only have the blending of these
varied blood-lines produced a new people,
but no popular cultural traditions from
any part of the homelands have taken
root in Australia. That is not the case in
U.S.A. Pockets of people who have re-
tained such customs have flourished there
for many years. Some continue to do so.
They are to be found both among sec-
tions of non-British origin* such as the
French Acadians of Louisiana, and the
Dutch Mennonites, and among communi-
ties of British descent, who settled in rural
areas that remained backwaters. When
Cecil Sharp was gathering his great col-
lection of old English folk-songs, he
found some remote valleys in the Alle-
gheny Mountains a fruitful source. They
had been settled in the early 18th century.
Time had stood still there, and, to a sub-
stantial degree, the age-old culture of the
English peasantry, which had by the mid-
19th century suffered almost complete
decay in England, had been preserved.
The Englishman of today, in genetic
composition, differs considerably from
his forbears of a couple of centuries ago.
As a result of the industrial revolution,
and of the great improvement in transport
that accompanied it, there has been a
substantial reblending of blood-strains.
People from all over the British Isles
poured into the new manufacturing
regions, and into great commercial
centres like London. Some of these cities
also developed important foreign colonies.
In Cross Channel, by Alan Houghton
Broderick, there is an interesting com-
parison between representative English
and French upper-class types in the 16th
century and today, as revealed by
portrait-painters. The Clouet portraits
show French types akin to moderns of
the same class, but “the Holbein portraits
show a type of English not typical of
today. The Tudor portraits of women are
not those of any type one may easily or
readily meet with today in any part of the
country.”
Broderick attributes this to the great
increase, in the 19th century, of the North
of England population—the main area of
the new industrialism. Through success
in business there was a rise to social con-
sequence and hence intermarriage with
the older gentry of certain racial types,
“heavy-boned and acromegalic, much
more common in the north than the
south.” — Castlereagh (N.S.W.).
Railways
Anyone who experienced the war-time
embarrassments to which State trans-
port authorities were subjected by deter-
mined efforts to impose centralised
bureaucratic control from Melbourne
will emphatically disagree with “Trans-
porticus’s” idea of single control (B
31/8/ ’49).
An official trained in, say, Victoria
—a small State with a relatively dense
population—has an entirely different out-
look on transport from a man trained
in one of the larger States with sparse
population. Further, centralised control
in such a vast country involves inordinate
delays and discourages initiative on the
“ That's the burglar all right, but I think he was clean-shaven."
part of officials in outside areas. It is
because of the failure of remote control
to deal effectively with problems on the
far horizon that there is such an insistent
demand for more States.
“T.” argues that “production for ex-
port should be encouraged to flow to
the nearest port,” and in the same para-
graph paradoxically complains that-“a
proposal to link the north-west with
N. S. Wales, which would lead to the
production of more cattle, is defeated by
Queensland.” He wants to haul the
beasts 2000 miles from the N.T., at stag-
gering cost, to overcongested Sydney, in-
stead of taking them 800 miles or so to
Townsville.
No State Premier “declared that it
would be better to lose millions of sheep
through drought than have non-paying
branch lines.” One Premier did indicate
that the limited number of sheep which
could be saved during occasional
droughts by one costly Western connec-
tion asked for in Queensland was not
economically worth it. And he was right.
The argument that “because the Com-
monwealth aims to run all shipping and
provides most of the facilities for air
transport” it should also control rail
transport will mat appeal to the tax-
payers who foot ’the bills for losses on
Commonwealth air-lines and remember
the sad story of its earlier shipping enter-
prises. The States are at least limited
by certain financial considerations, but
the Commonwealth knows no limitations.
With the taxation resources available to
it, who cares how much is squandered?
And the Commonwealth does not “hand
out the cash for roadmaking and main-
tenance.” It allocates to the States an
entirely inadequate proportion of the
petrol tax it exacts from road-users. —
Will S. Pryce (Q.).
This is the second time that The Bul-
letin’s M.L. correspondent has gone to
the trouble of working out his country’s
rail losses in terms of so much per minute
and so much per head of population (B.
14/9/’49). What does that “loss” matter?
It’s no good talking about passing the
buck to the legendary “taxpayer” because
it’s taxpayers who won’t dig coal, tax-
payers who won’t do a fair day’s work
and other taxpayers, mainly farmers, who
are being subsidised by other taxpayers
in the form of below-cost rail freights.
On the page opposite. The Bulletin
notes that Chifley intends handing out
£lO million to the Civil Aviation people
in the next Budget. Does anybody rise
and scream about that “loss”? Does
anyone talk darkly about paying interest
charges on that figure? Of course nobody
does; no informed person believes for
an instant that air transport can be ex-
pected to staud on its own feet. Yet
because, in the distant past, railways did
pay their way, the same people declare
that they can still do so. They can’t, and
the sooner that fact is realised the better.
In any case, to accept with complete
equanimity a subsidy of anything up to
a pound a ton-mile for air carriage while
quibbling over a fraction of a penny for
the rail shows a lamentable lack of per-
spective.—Transporticus (Singapore).
Sick Leave
“Mullum’s” solution of the problem of
sick leave (B. 19/10/’49) is generous, but
illogical. Allowing unclaimed leave to
accumulate and then paying half-rates to
healthy employees is equal to paying
accident compensation when no accident
has occurred.
The only remedy for the racket is to
police the widespread malingering and
punish the culprits. At present the only
deterrent is the expense of the doctor’s
line, which is supposed to be shown. If,
and when, the certificate is supplied free
with other medical services, a good time
will be had by all the workers affected
by Mondayitis and similar occupational
diseases.
A historical example may make the
point clear. Fifty years ago a very large
firm voluntarily adopted the paid-sick-
leave idea, and as a result suffered severely
from absenteeism. In order to stop the
rot by raising morale it granted a quarterly
bonus on profits. The “incentive” was
always handed out on a Wednesday, and
on the following Thursday about 25 p.c.
of the staff was regularly missing. In
desperation the firm engaged a doctor to
visit the cot-cases and report on their
condition. The symptoms were diagnosed
as those of the morning after the night
before, obviously induced by a too-
enthusiastic enjoyment of the “amenity.”
The only cure for the recurring epidemic
was the sack for every worker proved
to be allergic to sudden wealth.
Time is money in business. Every un-
warranted claim for paid sick leave is
larceny and should be treated as such
instead of being condoned because it is
a common fault. Individual instances
may be comparatively trifling, but added
up they represent a huge tax on industry,
a tragic loss of manpower and an import-
ant factor in creating shortages and raising
prices.—M. D. (S.A.).
Real-estate Agents
It is time the real-estate calling was
raised to the status of a profession and
regulated accordingly. R.-e. agents
throughout Australia handle millions of
pounds of trust money each year. A few
betray their trust, but very few, consider-
ing the number in business.
In N. S. Wales agents are registered,
but so are dogs. The procedure is simple
in each case, but in the case of an estate-
agent a licence is issued so that the
holder can prove he is registered. It is
the very simplicity of this act of registra-
tion that is open to question. Something
more should be required of men who pro-
pose to engage in business undertakings
which involve handling huge sums of other
people’s money, proffering advice as to
the administration and disposition of
valuable properties, management of
estates and close contact with all sections
of the community.
As the law stands at present,- all that
is required of an applicant for an estate-
agent’s licence is that the police be satis-
fied as to his “character.” That this is
not necessarily a protection against the
issue of a licence to an unworthy type is
illustrated by the fact that there have been
cases where men struck off the rolls of
other professional organisations and pre-
cluded from practising in those profes-
sions have been granted licences as real-
estate agents.
Magistrates dealing with applications
from men who have served terms of
imprisonment for misuse of funds en-
trusted to their care in other callings
have granted licences on the ground that
the applicants have been punished for
their misdeeds and should not be penalised
further. By permitting these people to
enter the real-estate calling the magis-
trates concerned are affording them an
opportunity of having another shot at
someone else’s money—and in very many
instances it is the money of people who
are not so well endowed with the stuff.
The system under which agents are
licensed also leaves the way open for
the inexperienced man to operate, and he
can be as big a menace to the public as
a rogue—he commits his mistakes with
all good intentions and does nothing that
would arouse the suspicions of his clients
that his advice may not be all it is repre-
sented to be.
The answer to the problem is, of
course, some more stringent qualification
for the issue of licences. The serving of
a prison term for misuse of trust funds
should be an all-time disqualification.
An applicant for a licence should be re-
quired to prove that he has the necessary
knowledge and experience to carry out
his responsibilities.
In N. S. Wales and other States there
are Institutes of Estate Agents, which try
to elevate the status of estate-agency by
education, research and training of
members and potential members. It
should be possible for these organisations
to be used to control the activities of all
agents in the same way as the In-
corporated Law Institute controls solici-
tors.
Some such requirement is now more
necessary than ever, since so many new-
comers to the country are entering the
calling—many of them hardly able to
speak English. Their knowledge of our
land laws, tenancy laws and general prac-
tice ethics must be very limited. — Cave
(N.S.W.),
White Australia and Trade
In maintaining that exclusion of
Malayan war-time refugees in a strict
enforcement of the White Australia policy
“won’t dam the natural flow of com-
merce,” “Barwon” (B. 26/10/’49) treats
the most important question of trade with
the Near East in a most cavalier fashion.
Composed of a people eager to take
its place in the Eastern set-up, the Philip-
pine Republic should be a natural outlet
for our export trade. Also, Australia,
self-professed champion of the smaller
nations, is bound to extend a “good-
neighbor” policy towards the infant
republic.
National feeling among Eastern coun-
tries being fiercely assertive, they are
more likely to turn to the Western nations
who not only preach “brotherhood”
but practise it. Senseless exclusions of
a handful of Asiatics has not enhanced
Australia’s prestige in the islands north
of the equator. The daily Press has
carried the story afar, and the damage
has been done. It is up to the Australian
people to see that it will not be carried
any further. The presence of a few
Asiatics will not affect our living
standards despite “B.’s” belief. Nor
does it follow that there will be “subse-
quent infiltration” of more. On the con-
trary, it is likely that those already here
will leave the country voluntarily when
they find the entrance of their compatriots
barred.
The Philippines are made up of peoples
closely related to the Indonesians and
Malayans—our nearest neighbors. Even
a slight rise in the standard of living of
these peoples must mean a huge increase
in their demand for secondary products,
much of which Australia could supply.
Far from being the only potential sup-
pliers, however, we are faced with active
competition from the U.S.A. The Philip-
pines have attained independence under
that country’s benevolent guidance, and it
is towards the States that they instinctively
turn for trade.
With its vast commercial backing, there
is every possibility that the U.S.A. can
satisfy any increased demand from the
East to the complete exclusion of Aus-
tralia. Even rehabilitated European in-
dustries are well in the field, as witness
the recent check in demand by Malaya
for Australian condensed milk as the
result of Belgium’s marketing of a cheaper
product. At least one South Australian


;
C
a
a
>3l
u
6
/
thins about it
"It’s no use crying over spilt milk”—true enough! . • •
particularly when it’s the spilt milk of lost opportunities,
neglected plans and thoughts of "what might have been.”
Though nothing can be done to
change the past you can profit from
it —you can learn from previous
experience how to plan for the
future.
That home of your own, that money
for your children’s education, those
funds for travel and early retirement
—just because these seem as far
away as ever is no reason why you
can’t start, at once, to make them
yours.
Saving is the secret. Regular,
conscientious, planned saving—the
putting aside, each week, of fixed
amounts —soon brings results. Even
small sums saved in this way grow
surprisingly to worthwhile funds.
Even the first few months of such
saving plans demonstrate, beyond
question, that you can accumulate
the money you need to make your
dreams come true.
Don’t be "crying over spilt milk”
this time next year. Start your
saving plan today and, by then,
you’ll see the road to security
straight and clear before you.
r
FOR THE THINGS
YOU WANT
SAVE THIS WAY
1. Buy only what you really need.
Avoid luxuries. Get full value.
2. Buy for cash always.
3. Settle your debts—then pay your
way.
4. Join a National Savings Group.
5. Build up your Savings Bank
Account*
6. Make Fixed Deposits with your
Bank.
7. Invest in Commonwealth Loans.
8. Increase your life assurance.
NATIONAL SAVINGS GROUPS
MAKE SAVING AUTOMATIC
Authorised by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
Commonwealth Loans and National Savings
Organisation in any Capital City.
See address and telephone number in your
telephone directory under “Commonwealth
Government Departments.”
N 584.113.109
plant was forced to reduce out-
put, with a corresponding lay-off
of employees.
That is only a minor example.
A union of near-Eastern coun-
tries hostile to Australia’s actions
has only to place an embargo on
our goods and “the natural
flow of commerce” will suffer
a surprising check. — Karrimba
(S.A.).
Trams and Buses
The best answer I’ve seen to
that commission which is so
keen to see the Sydney trams
scrapped comes from a rubber
manufacturer. Extolling the
virtues of his rubber seat-
cushions he boasts that they
have been fitted in “the fleet of
luxury trams supplied to the
City of Aberdeen.” If a city so
considerate of the bawbee as
Aberdeen is building trams in
preference to buses, it would pay
Sydney to go carefully into the
reasons. It would probably
learn something of value.
The Sydney commission’s re-
port will be read by about one
in a thousand of the people
directly interested, which is a
pity, for it is a most interesting
document, particularly for what
it leaves out. It could have been
written by any competent bus-
sales organisation.
Buses, the compilers say, will
bring order out of financial
chaos, for, buses being 20 per
cent, cheaper to run than trams,
'costs will come down. They
stress this economy many times
and support it by using figures
which are, to say the least, of
little technical value. They give
the costs for several cities, in-
cluding Glasgow and Liverpool,
and you’re asked to believe that
these places, in retaining and
strengthening their tram fleets,
are actually favoring the more
costly and less efficient vehicle.
It hardly makes sense.
They don’t mention Aberdeen
and they’ve apparently never
heard of Melbourne or Brisbane,
They don’t say too much about
London, the outstanding feature
of whose transport programme
is an order for 1100 modern
buses to replace 800 completely
obsolete trams. That’s roughly
the ratio they suggest for Sydney.
Oh, no. They don’t say that in
so many words, and it took me,
half an hour with the slide-rule
to work it out, but their own
figures gave 40 per cent, more
buses than trams. As they make
insufficient allowance for the
lower reliability of the bus, none
for its poor loading and poorer
overloading characteristics, that
figure could quite easily rise to
100 per cent., or two buses for
each tram. What that would do
to costs is nobody’s business.
Similarly with speed. Under
present conditions Sydney buses
are faster than trams, 12 against
10.6 m.p.h., but their conditions
are completely dissimilar. There’s
every reason to believe that,
given all the traffic, the use of
buses would result in a definite
slowing - down in the peak
periods, but the commission
members still use the 15 per cent,
speed margin in their plan.
Anyway, getting down to brass
tacks, what is the objection to
the tram? It interferes with
other road-users? Maybe it
does; that is certainly the
objection which gets most pub-
licity. But whose road is it?
Who pays for it? The tram,
alone of all road-using vehicles,
builds and maintains its own
track plus anything from a third
to a half of the width of the
street through which it passes.
Does that not give it any rights
in the matter at all?
Trams are uncomfortable?
Nonsense. They’ve none of the
nerve-wracking vibration of the
bus, none of its stench. Given
a decent track (the sort they
build in Brisbane), given circular
wheels and normal maintenance
of gears and other components,
a ride in a tram is velvet-smooth
compared to the best oil-engined
bus on a good road. The
modern soft cushions are a
luxury in a tram. They’re a
plain necessity on any bus.
Trams are noisy? Granted
they’re more so than the bus,
but, again given conditions as
they can be and not as they are
in Sydney, that noise only be-
comes objectionable on points
and crossings, which are rela-
tively infrequent. Add their in-
dependence of imported fuel and
rubber, their cheapness and their
far superior load-carrying ability
and you can make out a far
better case for the tram than
the commission did for the bus.
—Transporticus (Singapore).
The N.T.
Mary Gilmore takes me to
task (B. 9/11/ ’49) for stating in
effect that it is impossible to run
cattle in the N.T. except on large
holdings, and to support her
argument she draws several in-
apt and quite inappropriate
analogies.
If in the Riverina 80 years ago
somebody (unspecified) said that
wheatgrowing was impossible
and somebody else (also un-
identified) poohpoohed the idea
of sheepraising there, the pessi-
mism of these shadowy authori-
ties does not prove anything
about the N.T. Time has proved
them to be very wrong—about
the Riverina.
Dame Mary Gilmore should
be more careful also in her ter-
minology, It is quite as inac-
curate to describe the Wimmera
as “desert” as it is to use that
district to draw a conclusion
about the Territory. As far as
the wool crop is concerned she
should know that the bulk of it
comes from the Western District
of Victoria, which enjoys a
reasonably reliable, well-distri-
buted and adequate rainfall, and
which lies in the temperate grass-
land belt which in both hemi-
spheres provides the world’s
best pastoral areas. She also
cites a statement from an un-
identified source that Alice
Springs could not be settled nor
grow fruit and vegetables.
Underground water was the
means of discounting that woe-
fully inaccurate theory, but,
again, the settlement of the Alice
proves nothing about the N.T.
The fact remains that after
more than 80 years of settlement
the Territory held a few more
than 11,000 people, excluding
full-blooded aborigines, and pro-
duced not more than 0.2 per
cent, of Australia’s annual out-
put.
Man’s ingenuity may make
the desert flower, provided he
has mountain storage sites for
dam-building, reasonably flat
land so positioned as to make
gravitational reticulation pos-
sible, and fertile soil. The N.T.
suffers on all these counts. The
few dam-sites in the Kimberleys
have no flat lands near by to irri-
gate, and the soil, except that
near the rivers, is poor and
seriously deficient in phosphorus.
The Payne-Fletcher Report of
1937 stated that very little more
than the 34 per cent, of the total
area of the N.T. then under lease
was fit for use, and that report
was based on actual observation
and investigation on the spot.
Man can divert snow-fed
streams to vivify the parched
earth as he has done for count-
less centuries in the Ganges
Valley, but he cannot control the
seasonal distribution of rainfall.
If Nature sends the rains during
a well-defined period and then
as regularly follows that with a
six-months drought the result
must be a reduction in the rela-
tive carrying capacity, and there-
fore large holdings are required.
The only hope in the Territory
is the growth of fodder along
the rivers wherever that is pos-
sible, but everyone there cannot
have a river frontage if the small-
holdings idea is ever carried out.
Monsoon country is not first-
class cattle land and never could
be made so with the annual
cycle of rain and drought.
It is futile to ask the question
“Would Russia or Japan say that
closer-settlement is impossible?”
Their agronomists and geo-
graphers must arrive at the same
conclusion as I have, not by
making inapt comparisons with
areas in which totally different
conditions prevail, but by dis-
passionate scientific examination
of the factors involved. Dame
Mary Gilmore should adopt a
similar realistic approach to the
problem,— Barwon (N.S.W.).
“Liberal Interpretation!”
The Socialist practice o f
bludgeoning Bills through Par-
liament, oblivious to the protests
of the Opposition, refusing to
accept any .amendments or
deletions, is having its reaction
in a crop of “explanations” by
various responsible, or irrespon-
sible, Ministers.
The latest to make such an ex-
planation is the N.S.W. Minister
for Justice, who said, in reply to
protests against the harsh pro-
visions of Section 36 of the Land-
lord and Tenant Act, 1948-49,
that the Rent Controller was
taking too liberal an interpreta-
tion of the section and that in
cases of legitimate sales of
businesses consent of the Con-
troller was not required.
Just how the Minister arrives
at his interpretation of the
section would be interesting to
learn. From a careful reading
of the section there appears to
be no equivocation in the official
phraseology—no room for any
person, other than the Rent
Controller or the Fair Rents
Board, to declare that a trans-
action is legitimate or illegiti-
mate.
As the section stands it reads
“A person shall not, whether as
principal or agent, or in any
other capacity ...” do or re-
quire any other person to do
any one of a number of speci-
fied acts “except with the consent
of the Controller.” The mean-
ing of the words “A person” is
surely all-embracing, excluding
no one, while the words “except
with the consent of the Con-
troller” are clear and definite
enough. Anyway, the Rent
Controller has made it clear
that he can, and will, prosecute
anyone who sells a business in-
volving the transfer of a lease
or has any other. dealings con-
cerning a lease, without his con-
sent.
The object of the legislation
and the original intention of the
Government are laudable enough
—the prevention of exploitation
of the shortage of dwelling and
office accommodation, the tak-
ing of “key money” and similar
rackets —but the method is
clumsy. Many thousands of
businesses change hands each
year, and the vast majority of the
transactions are legitimate deals.
However, the Rent Control De-
partment controls every one of
them, wastes thousands of
pounds’ worth of time of magis-
trates, solicitors, agents and
businessmen and causes extreme
hardship in many instances.
Men who have purchased run-
down businesses and worked
them up with the intention of
selling them at a profit are par-
ticularly in trouble.
Of course, the Minister’s ex-
planation places all the blame on
the zeal of his departmental
officers—just as other Ministers
in trouble pass the buck along
to the fellows who can’t defend
themselves.
One way of overcoming the
passing of unjust and oppressive
legislation would be to take a
little more notice of Opposition
and private members in the
House. Not all the brains exist
in caucus, nor even in Cabinet.
—JINDIVICK (N.S.W.).


INSURANCE —for your profecfion
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Uong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £10,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
Gentlemen prefer.
- - -i:f
„ r
■ih •X&&'r~s l y > ' /.
£?*.** ft 1,1 1
'ZZf f &rr*rrrl>r. ... ,
• • WWfW *#; •/ /Mftf.
tiiM* *V 0. -y&
• W* : -U !.Br
rv-4#v •
■so-
• /A '-■
> >1 • a
' .x'.J ' '
• -i.:
'* ‘ •’. 'j»s»
*
, ■L''--- r/ <*''-' f ts',
«*•"/ i.d 'z.
z' .
. • '<•’ v {T?v' /, ; ; .
! -X ' ""'v'v,’
i■ • V
#xs
. 'st4-k
}:s&•■■, }jj \ >
M
/£??.:.
O
sssfSS,
-m/r,-- i
VW;^i
/
7/y
r.
5*3
/v
/"V'
4/
**
/' /
i
1
/:
:£|SS
as
SSSS
ii
i
SSWSY)
W<W*K
IHE BRAND WITM A PEDIGRE9
"The Fiver's"
Inn
By DAVID ROWBOTHAM
pe d s^t“ s
by being so popular.
Bill Horton, keen-eyed, kindly,
sterling Englishman, once stood
in its doorway to welcome his
patrons as, by ones, by twos, or
in well-met groups, they rode
in from Cambooya, Jondaryan,
Ellangowan, Talgai, Goom-
burra, Toolburra or Glengal-
lan, or simply strolled across
from the direction of the well
—Drayton was, in those days,
just its, one well, a shanty or
two, and “The Fiver’s” pub, with
SJT sreat and
crow scoffed from the cross-
beamed gate ; where, perhaps,
Patrick Leslie in his broad,
spatular beard once leaned and
chatted with Henry Stuart Rus-
sell, or John Cox, or Sir Joshua,
or Clark Irving, Deuchar,
Davidson, or Bell—members of
that class of alienated, grim, gay
opportunists whom history has
called, romantically but not
quite accurately, “pioneers.”
Sir Joshua stabled his horses
there at the back of the inn and
«««*,»
RverVMirst lord ancfmasteJ hi
the colony; and Leslie, looking
always remarkably a man of
position, besides discovering,
unassumingly took, all the best
land on the Downs, founded
Warwick with a nonchalant
raise of his hand at an auction
in 1840 and grew, virtually, king
of the squatters.
AND Bill, “The Fiver,” host
A G f the Royal Bull’s Head,
knew them all, or. more cor-
rectly, they all knew him.
He was jovially proud of the
building with, the sign of the
truculent bull hanging above the
wide, unshapely stairs that led
from the roadside and the hitch-
ing-rails to the long verandah,
and in a rough golden'way no
doubt loved the place: loved
the four attic windows, with
their English sashes, peering
over what was then only the
promise of great wheatlands;
loved the timbered walls and
the cat’s-paw just beginning to
grip and climb, and the pep-
perina sapling in the triangular
yard to the right; loved the
parlor, loved the knocker of
carved white grass on the door;
loved the company and the sun-
light and the wickflame on the
beer. He and his inn, being alike
in one thing, had everything in
common. He had his English
soul, and the inn, fashioned by
some nostalgic builder, was
given an English soul (and an
English name), too.
They were a sturdy pair, able
match for the desolate but
spacious days when Toowoomba
was the near-by “Swamp,” when
Parson Glennie travelled thirteen
hundred miles one year preach-
ing to his “parish,” when it was
not unusual to see a picket of
whirlwinds hundreds of feet
high raising slender pillars of
black powder on the plains, nor
uncommon to stumble upon an
almost obliterated grave—like
the grave of “Jim,” a Cambridge
man buried near Cecil Plains,
with a bullet in his head ; or like
the grave of a child at Mary-
land, left with a crumbling
fence and a few wild garden
flowers around it.
If doors, like mouths, could
speak, surely the inn would cry
for its lost century and for its
host. Bill, with his determina-
tion, his ability to spin a yam
and his skill in escaping blacks,
must unquestionably have
found his way home by this
time. Who knows—he may be
licking all his mates at a bush
game of cards again, trium-
phantly and good - naturedly
holding up his winning number
five! Perhaps he draws beer in
paradise or cracks his stock-
keeper’s-whip, that lithe trophy
given to him, along with good
wishes, by John Cox and which
he fixed to the parlor wall in an
attitude of leaping. Perhaps in
that paradise he thanks God and
Benjamin Glennie for their fore-
sight in seeing to his baptism
one hot January morning in
1853 when, in pious company
among the odor of ale, he knelt
on the parlor floor.
DUT the Royal Bull’s Head
can’t speak; so it does the
next-best thing. It dreams. You
may catch it unawares one night
if you listen intently enough
with your heart when the
westerly wind thrums like a tide
of vanished voices returning
around its eaves and shingles,
and the moon above the hill,
drawing that tide to its highest,
rolls a multitude of memories to
the grey walls,
A bitumen road goes by now,
linking Toowoomba with War-
wick in the south, and people
of the shire post letters through
a slot in the inn’s door. The
neon light of the service-station
opposite imposes modern times
upon it, and on purple Saturday
evenings in the summer dancers
“sitting this one out” from the
neighboring hall make love in
its memorable shadows.
“...Not Even With Stones!”
By “COL M.”
4 A FTER that a man should
** have his head read for
even looking at a horse. It was
daylight robbery. Pulled! I’ll
say he was pulled. The jockey
had him walking on his hind-
legs. No, not after that. Never.”
Benny’s week usually started
like that. By Wednesday he
would work up a mild interest
in some country meeting; by
Friday he had something that
would win Saturday’s Flying
Handicap even if it stopped for
a feed on the way.
One day, bang in the middle
of summer, Benny turned up at
“headquarters.” A dried-out
westerly was toying with the flags
on top of the main stand; a day
that made the punters think
longingly of another, a freak of
the past spring, when the wind
had blown sleety rain and only
the horses were warm, and when
boolanakers in their light opti-
mistic clobber had offered £5O
in tenners for an overcoat.
Benny stood in the shade and
looked down over the lawn at
the brass band pumping at its
trombones, tapping at its drums,
red-faced, sweating, and think-
ing of beer.
He had no interest in the first
race and merely watched the
youngsters go out and come
back in, dripping foam. Benny’s
afternoon started when he
approached a bookmaker and
took a treble, returning the
man’s amiable smile as he paid
up his pound-note and was
handed the ticket:
“Journey To
Firelight
Spacious Tree
£300.”
Benny went up to sit for the
rest of the afternoon on top of
the stand, from where the horses
look like dogs as they streaked
across the back of the course,
and came up into scale as the
mob began to yell.
Journey To won, and Fire-
light won. Benny’s tongue was
dry in his mouth. The wind
had died and the flags had died,
and the people who had gone
below crowded back in to the
seats on top of the stand. The
loudspeaker was crackling, the
bell rang, and the second-hand
of the judge’s clock began to
sweep its smooth path.
Benny sat there staring at the
wooden rail in front of him, but
when he heard the announcer
say it he leaped to his feet and
yelled.
Spacious Tree took them
past the post, fifteen lengths a
winner. Benny let the crowd go
and slowly made his way down
the stairs. “Three hundred quid
to one /”
Then, as he came out into the
sunshine, the roar. Benny
watched the numbers being taken
down again, and then going up
with the alteration. He saw the
official buzz going on in the en-
closure, and the red-coated clerk
of the course showing to three
gentlemen in Homburg hats
some little flat bars of metal that
explained everything. He had
dismounted to pick them up out
on the course, just near the line.
The papers that night spoke
of the remoteness of the
chances of lead-weight bars
falling out of a horse’s saddle-
bag during the running of a race.
They agreed that there was no
doubt that Spacious Tree
would have won carrying the
leads he had dropped, and
sympathised with the horse’s
connections over his disqualifica-
tion. Benny could have told
them a lot more to say.
He tucked his ticket away,
keeping it to show people why
he, a consistent punter, had sud-
denly turned it in. There was
still a Welter race to go, but
he made his way towards the
gates, uninterested, kicking
along amid the torn tickets,
Benny fingered the lone six-
pence in his pocket and debated.
It could take him the thirsty
two miles home on the tram, or
it could buy him a milk-shake
here on the course and he could
then walk home, fortified, and
just now he needed fortifying.
So it was that when Benny
saw the girl in the kiosk pour a
mixerful of soothing white milk
into the air and catch it smartly
in a glass, he changed his direc-
tion and slapped down his six-
pence on the counter.
Benny took up the glass, put
it to his lips, and drank. His
forehead furrowed and his eyes
screwed up:
“Spur! Never again. Neve?
weU again!”


last word?” he asks in his most threaten-
ing tone. And since I reply that I have
nothing to add: “It’s a pity! lam sorry
for you, but you’ve asked for it. You will
live to regret this.”
M. Gide is pretty adept at putting
chairs between himself and others; as
witness his criticism of Cocteau.
With many comments on the progress
of his piano-playing, and remarks on the
music of Chopin and Bach which,
although they display his understanding
of those masters, do not increase ours ;
with reflections on the cruelty to dogs of
country urchins, and despair at having
been reported as using slang at a fun-fair ;
and with a great deal of comment on his
reading—he reads a great amount of
English classical literature —and the hope
that, as he is modest, like Baudelaire, he
may enjoy a similar posthumous success,
the Journals are filled out. Perhaps the
height of his modesty is reached on
January 6, 1938:
Preparing an anthology of Montaigne, I
am reading wonderful passages in the
Essais analogous to those in my Journals
published in the latest issue of the N.R.F.,
which made some express amazement and
regret that at sixty-seven I should already
be speaking of getting old. These passages
in the Essais were written when Montaigne
was thirty-nine.
In the same way Mr. Irving Berlin
might expect to be a very old man before
he writes anything like some of the pas-
sages Mozart wrote at the age of twenty.
On Masefield's Hill.
John Masefield’s new verses in On the
Hill (Heinemann) are like an echo from
another world ; from some remote, happy,
Chaucerian time, an age of innocence in
life and art which vanished overnight, so
it seems, when Eliot published The Waste
Land. It seems incredible that less than
half a century has gone by since Mase-
field’s shorter poems such as the lyric
about the wild duck were considered
revolutionary, and his long narratives,
“The Everlasting Mercy” and “The
Widow in the Bye-Street,” for their pro-
letarian language and subjects, shocking.
Masefield’s style in his new book has
not altered. He did not, like W. B. Yeats,
constantly change, constantly develop,
constantly explore, but has remained static
while the world rushed past him.
It is not necessary that a poet
should keep pace with the times;
neither has Walter de la Mare ever
changed his style and subject-matter. But
when the form and content do not alter
over the years it is obvious that the poet is
expressing a limited vision . . . sometimes
merely repeating himself, sometimes in-
vestigating a little more thoroughly some
corner of his familiar territory.
The reader’s pleasure, consequently, in
such a book as On the Hill must of neces-
sity be largely nostalgic ; a recapturing of
old emotions. But if one of Masefield’s
favorite words, “muck,” with which he
achieved his most sensational effects long
ago, has lost its power to shock —
We shovelled out our marks and went
Away, all mucked and hot.
And Bill said, “Now, my first intent
Is put the spoil to pot,
And melt the lot” —
his other favorite word, “beauty,” with
which he achieved his finest lyrical effects,
can even now come with fresh charm
upon the ear, with a sense of grace and
dignity:
No, I know not;
Yet the framework has a beauty and an
order
Over which illusion passes in the never-
counted leaves
That are whirled away in Autumn, if they
go not
From Nature any further than the border
That re-gives as it receives.
No; I see not
More than this, a living greatness of pro-
cession,
Part of infinite procession hurled in fire
through the sky,
Bearing things that seem to be, then seem
to be not,
Human things, in living faulty with
obsession,
Leaving anguish when they die.
The title-poem, from which these lines
are quoted, is more than a repetition ;
metrically captivating in its long lines
running with a natural eloquence, it is a
summary of a lifetime’s experience; a
final statement of Masefield’s faith that
beauty and order are to be found in the
fiery procession of existence. Another
poem, “The Wind of the Sea” —
Three sailormen from Bantry Bay
Ventured to sea on Christmas Day
It blows.
The wind of the sea torments us—
is a fine addition to Masefield’s saltwater
ballads, which are probably the best
things he ever wrote.
But the bulk of On the Hill is composed
neither of lyrics nor of saltwater ballads
but of long tales in verse; and in these,
since the qualities which once would hp.ve
been sensational are now familiar, and
since they teem with faults, one is more
aware of the faults than of anything else.
They are poems in which Masefield will
do anything at all for the sake of a
rhyme ; and so there is flatness, there is
bathos, there is padding, there is redund-
ance, there is the most extraordinary
mixture of modern and pseudo-archaic
language. A few examples may be
quoted:
The rumors vary: no one knows.
1 never met the lucky those
Who went about with him
Report had led me to suppose
That you were surely one of those
Who follow this new Eastern way.
I sympathise with all you say....
It was a coin, or link, or flake,
Stamped with an ear of corn,
A marvel of an ancient make
By men of heretoforn,
None recent-born
“And this,” they said, “will make a stir,
If ever battle did,
So shall the winner, as a spur
To make him tear his foeman’s fur,
Receive a hundred quid?”.,..
Against these faults, which, of course,
could be matched, or, indeed, surpassed,
by Wordsworth and Alfred Austin, may
be set a pleasant jog-trot of generally
tolerable verse and, more importantly,
since technical delights are not to be
expected in these unpretentious tales, a
flow of quiet humor. But against that
must be set, at least in the principal
narrative, “A Tale of Country Things,”
the pointlessness of the story, which,
dealing with prize-fights and village love,
rambles off in a dozen different directions
and never fails, as far as dramatic move-
ment is concerned, to knock itself out
en route.
A simple poetry such as Masefield’s is
not, of course, destroyed, though it may
be driven out of fashion, by a learned
poetry such as Eliot’s. Broadly, these
tales are in a category of humorous
narrative verse which has been estab-
lished by Chaucer, by Cowper’s “John
Gilpin” and by the “Ingoldsby Legends,”
and there will always be a place for
rhymes of that sort —possibly a more
secure place than for many of the alle-
gories of disaster and redemption with
which English poetry has chiefly con-
cerned itself since The Waste Land.
Whether it is humorous or serious the
narrative poem deals in the creation of
men and women, and men and women
in poetry live long. But before the circle
swings back to narrative poetry there
would need to be better versification,
firmer characterisation and far better
stories than there are in On the Hill.
Aboriginal Place-names.
Although the greater proportion of our
place-names are English, the use of abo-
riginal names began early—with Benelong
Point, Parramatta and Narrabeen among
others —and the use of these names
appears to increase in direct ratio to
distance from the city. There are distinc-
tive names that perpetuate the lingual
characteristics of the tribes, like the
“bones” of western N.S.W. —Mumble-
bone, Gulargambone, Durhambone and
Wallangambone. Or the “bri” of the
north-west —Narrabri, Boggabri, Col-
larenebri and so on.
W.A. has its distinctive place-name
terminals, and so has Victoria, but Tas-
mania has very few aboriginal place-
names on its map: a commentary on our
treatment of the aborigines there.
It is a pity that Macquarie and his suc-
cessors did not set up a Ministry of
Orthography to preserve these aboriginal
place-names in a uniform phonetic spel-
ling. The names were handed on by word
of mouth, losing some of the original each
time they were spoken and gaining some
anglicisation according to the memory
of the user or the district from which he
gained his mother-tongue, until, in many
cases, our modern rendition of these
aboriginal names would convey nothing
at all to the original inhabitants.
Variations in the official spelling of
place-names still exist. In some instances
the Lands Department uses one version
while the railways may have another and
other departments still another. Burrowa
(N.S.W.) is thus spelled on the railway-
station signboard, but on the map it is
Boorowa.
Collarenebri (N.S.W. Lands Depart-
ment) is spelt Colarendabri just as often,
and pronounced mostly with the “d.”
In pre-radio days, the written word was
pronounced by the reader to suit himself.
Even the inhabitants of some of our
country centres differ in the pronuncia-
tion of the name of theif own town. Take
Canberra, for instance. Most Australians
stress the first syllable, but many of its
own inhabitants call it Canberra.
Radio brought the matter to a head.
Nothing riles a listener more than to hear
some luckless announcer mispronouncing
the name of his home-town. And if the
announcer could pronounce the better-
known names, people kept getting
murdered and accidents kept happening
in the queerest-sounding places. All the
university degrees in the world wouldn’t
suggest to the holder that Mungie Bundle
(N.S.W.) should be pronounced Mucka
Bun- dye, or Mugincoble as Ma-jink-abal,
or that Rouchel should sound like
Rookal.
In N. S. Wales there are scores of place-
names ending in the letter “i,” and there
is nothing whatever to aid the innocent
reader to decide whether it should be
pronounced short like the final syllable in
Parragundy or as a long “eye.”
Wollomombi is short, but Wollombi ends
like “bye.” Moonbi is spoken as Moon-bee
whereas Boomi is Boom-eye. Run your
eye down the following list and see how
many you can pronounce correctly:
(1) Baerami. (2) Minmi. (3) Billimari.
(4) Corindi. (5) Dirranbandi. (6) Mun-
gindi. (7) Buccarumbi. (8) Curragundi.
(9) Karangi. (10) Currawillinghi. (11)
Goondiwindi. (12) Bogamildi. (13)
Naranghi. (14) Mehi. (15) Lilli Pilli.
(16) Wooli. Check your form with List A
at the foot of the column.
Another trap for young announcers is
whether the letter “a” occurring in a
name should be pronounced long, short,
or not at all; whether it should be “aw”
as in law, “ae” as in pay, accented “ah”
as in “bah,” or short as in the final syllable
of America. Here’s a little list with pro-
nunciations to illustrate the hazards that
await the unwary:
Adrah, first “a” as in “aid,” second as
in “bah.” Ariah Park, like “area” with
accent on first syllable. Awaba, first and
third “a” short, second “aw” and
stressed— A-waw-ha. Belalie, Bel-ale-ee.
Bombala, Bom-bah-la. Monaro, Ma-
nae-ro. Tarana, Tah-rah-nuft (accent on
last syllable). Goonal, Goo-nawl.
Talwood, Tol-wood.
These are only a few of the many
whose spelling gives no indication of how
the “a” should be pronounced, and most
of them are at variance with the normal
relation between English spelling and pro-
nunciation.
Then we have the pitfalls surrounding
the letter “g,” and local knowledge offers
the only clue in deciding whether the “g”
should be hard as in “got” or soft as in
“age.” How many of the following list
can you pronounce correctly? (For
correct answers see List B):
(1) Trangie. (2) Jingellic. (3) Moran-
garell. (4) Eungella. (5) Geurie. (6)
Gragin. (7) Egelabra. (8) Barbigal. (9)
Gogeldrie. (10) Weetangerra. (11)
Karangi. (12) Naranghi. (13) Segenhoe.
(14) Gingie. (15) Wangi Wangi. (16)
Gerogery. (17) Gillenbah. (18) Beel-
bangera. (19) Gin Gin. (20) Caragabal.
The accenting of the correct syllable is
another twister. Why should Coolan-
gatta be emphasised on the gatta while
Tallangatta is pronounced Ta-/*mg-ga-ta?
Why should Collie (W.A.) be pronounced
like the dog of that breed while Collie
(N.S.W.) is Col-lye?
To help announcers through this ortho-
graphic morass the A.B.C. appointed a
Pronunciation Committee which selected
N.S.W. place-names for their preliminary
investigation. The magnitude of their
task became more apparent the more they
delved into it. As a result of the work of
the committee, a list of N.S.W. place-
names with their correct pronunciation
is now available. The complete work with
additional pronunciations shown in
phonetic script will be published at a later
date. It now remains to extend the work
to the other States and the completed
volume should have an international
demand.
List A. Final syllable of odd numbers
pronounced “ee”: Bae-rammee. Even numbers
“eye” sound: Min-mye, etc.
List B. (1) Trang-ee (hard). (2) Jin-/e//ick
(soft). (3) Mora«-ja-rell (soft). (4) You-an-
ghella (hard). (5) Gear-ee (hard). (6) Gra-jeen
(soft). (7) Ee-jel-a6ra (soft). (8) Barby-jal
(soft). (9) Go-/(?/-dree (soft). (10) Wee-tang-
gherra (hard). (11) Ka-rang-ghee. (hard). (12)
Na-ran-jee (soft). (13) Sedge-en-hoe (soft).
(14) Ghing-ghee (both hard). (15) Won-jee
(soft). (16) Jer-odjeree (both soft). (17) Jill-
en-bah (soft), (18) Beel-han-jera (soft). (19)
Jin-jin (soft). (20) Ka-rag-abal (hard).
J. J. H
Nothing Left to Believe ?: Richard
Acland, M.P. (Longmans). The author
thinks we may be living “in the gap or
trough between the fading of the First
Christian Era and the emergence of the
Second” ; and in simple language he tells
us what he thinks we should do about it.
* * * *
The Last Secret: Dana Chambers
(Hale). Jim Steele, American secret-
service agent, has an old school-friend
murdered on the eve of telling him how
to run engines by atomic energy ; there
is a good deal of kidnapping and bomb-
ing of Steele and his wife by German
agents; and in the middle of the war an
American delegation is taken to South
America to see a German demonstration
of the destruction of an army and air
force by a secret weapon. Only for Mr.
Steele, America might have thrown her
hand in after that demonstration —and
to think this is the first (and last) to be
heard of the matter!
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 46
Across.
I—Flog1—Flog the favorite’s dogs. (8)
4 —Children were sacrificed to a
noted comedian on the lake. (6)
9—Peer mixed with six dies. (7)
11— Same bun in some daylight. (7)
12— Rearrange the sequence of sane
sport. (9)
14— Painting is so located about his
own products. (5)
15— Sincere suit material? (9)
16— Firm with thousands comes to
a stop. (5)
17— Part of the lather in returning
the nest. (5)
18— One is to arrest the cattle-station
for one of two courses taken by
some rivers. (9)
20—Wilhelmina, I am a little drip. (5)
22—Not at home with the piano and
deposited eggs vanquished at
sport. (9)
24 A thorny change for a town in
Galicia. (7)
25 Fantastic monster to ring the
artist. (7)
27 Insect part of a concrete-mixer.
(6)
28— Seabird concerning the French in
sharkskin. (8)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Down.
1— Direction to the remainder to
pull away violently. (5)
2 You raise the devil because I
am in Parliament. (3)
3 Strike up a location’s hangers-
on. (9)
5 What’s in the heart of adorned
birds. (5)
6 A single one has an ancient
imperialist to see why the lot is
dream-interpretation. (11)
7 Residence has nothing on the
pavement doctor. (9)
8— Like money for a rise. (6)
10—Pinched clerical clothing. (5)
13 —A prohibition on Bradman’s joint
heard when seafaring folk take to
the boats. (7, 4)
15— Deer planet with some aspiration
to get a Federal electorate. (9)
16— See one drunk singing on Christ-
mas Eve. (9)
18 — Decorates the commotion on the
Royal Navy’s, (6)
19— Language of the garret. (5)
21 —Foregathered concerning a mea-
sure. (5)
23 —Physician has the beard of the
com sketched. (5)
26 —Lamb’s mother. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 45.


To Meet Australia's Needs
The
“CRAFTSMAN”
sj-inch Lathe
The “MARS”
Plain Miller
(At right )
m
v'y i
S
,
The “HERCULES” Sfinch Lathe the little
GIANT of the lathe world. With removable
Gap Bridge. (Above)
Manufacturers of
“Mars” Diesel
Engines
The “MARS” No. 4 Full
Universal Milling Machine
the ONLY universal
milling machine made in
Australia. (Above)
Licensed Manufacturers in Queensland
of
MEEHANITE IRQNS
aavaj
,
fl
P
A
-
i
O . PTY. I
LTD
PI:
".'/. -:■■-■ >:'
' " ■ : ■ ■■ : :-;
44 MARS”
PRECISION MACHINE TOOLS
for Immediate or Early Delivery
The “MARS” 16|-inch High
Speed Shaper for all classes of
Shaping work. ( Above )
The “APOLLO”
7-inch Lathe with
Removable Gap
Bridge. (At left)
The “MARS”
6-inch Lathe. For
accurate work at
high speed.
(Below)
n;
i
$ 1
w
-:-T,
\
r)'
M-
L I
/ _
i
r
hi.
U
—=_■/
M-
•&
The “MARS”
High-Speed
Planing Machine
sgssg
The “MARS”
10-inch Heavy-
Duty, High-Speed
Engine Lathe.
E
.......... j:
: S;
•■/ •• •• ••
fcssiii
mm m
i ■
'
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS:
N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co, Pty., Ltd., and Gibson Battle &
Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney. Vic.: Herbert Osborne, Engineer, 567-9
Little Bourke Street (near King Street), Melbourne. S.A.: M. S.
McLeod, Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.; The Western Machinery Co., Ltd.,
Perth. Tas.: Charles Davis, Ltd., Hobart. India—Bombay
Province: R. S. Mehta & Co., Alii Chambers, Fort, Bombay.
Sales Rep.; C. Evans, C/o Bank of N.S.W., Port Moresby, Papua.
9. & O’S. Advt.
Distinctive Features of all
“MARS” PRECISION MACHINE TOOLS
ACCURACY . . . Built to recognized
and certified standards of accuracy.
BALANCE . . . All necessary, revolv-
ing parts are Dynamically Balanced.
FINISH . . . All surfaces are Machine
Ground. MATERIALS . . . Finest
Matured High Test Alloy Castings
throughout. SMOOTH RUNNING
, . All Gear Teeth are generated.
VERSATILITY ... All lathes have
generous Detachable Gap Bridge.
“MARS” Lathe Lead Screws are cut
from a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw.
