

J RPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
ŵ
E OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 70—No. 3613
Wednesday, May 11, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
A Link with Cesar's Invasion Is
Ancient Pevensey Castle
•
JpEVENSEY CASTLE in Sussex, west
of Hastings, is associated with the
earliest history of Britain, for it goes back
for two thousand years. Caesar is reputed
to have landed here and established the
Roman camp of Anderida, one of the
nine great castles which, during the
Roman occupation, defended the
southern shores. The fortifications of this
camp today form part of the outer walls
of Pevensey Castle, which are twenty to
thirty feet in length, strengthened by
fifteen drum towers of great solidity.
After the Romans withdrew from
England the Piets and Scots and Saxons
successively ravaged the country. It is
recorded that a party of Britons took
refuge in Pevensey and were massacred
in the castle by the Saxon invaders. Cen-
turies later, in 1066, William I landed in
Pevensey Bay, using nearby Hastings as
a victualling centre. Soon after the Con-
quest, William’s half-brother, the Earl of
Mortaign, came into possession of
Pevensey and set about building a new
castle within the walls of the Roman
stronghold, using a good deal of Roman
material in its construction. It is pen-
tagonal in shape and covers an acre and
a half, each angle being strengthened by
a massive drum tower with two semi-
circular towers flanking the entrance. The
masonry of the drawbridge is still to be
seen, and the entrance passage, with
portcullis grooves, is still in good condi-
tion. The castle was besieged in 1088
and again in 1399, when defence against
the King’s forces was successfully con-
ducted by Lady Jane, wife of Sir John
Pelham. Pevensey has served as a State
prison, and within its walls many notable
persons have been held, including
Edward Duke of York, James I of Scot-
land and Joan Navarre, second Queen
of Henry IV.


w
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
BJB. 249
AGE
The Red Page
HITLER AND HIS ADMIRALS .
The foreword of Anthony Martiens-
sen’s Hitler and His A dmirals (Seeker and
Warburg) holds a story within itself;
how special Allied Intelligence units, put
on the scent by an accidental haul of
papers in Paris, pursued it through hiding-
places in Germany until they had re-
covered most of the Wehrmacht’s secret
archives, among them 60,000 naval files
which opened to their scanners the top-
secret memoranda relating to the Ger-
man Navy from 1868 to April, 1945.
From these, Martienssen, a young naval
officer who had his share of the Atlantic
Battle, shifted to Salerno and Anzio as
a fighter direction officer in a British car-
rier and finished the war in carrier Vic-
torious in the Pacific, and who is now on
the editorial staff of the “Economist,”
was detailed by the Admiralty to recon-
struct in narrative form the higher, most
intimate direction of the German Navy
just before and during its greatest war.
He has made an uncommonly good job
of it, with a book that employs the
smooth continuity, the luminous charac-
ter-depiction, the mounting suspense and
the crashing climax of a well-constructed
novel.
The opening chapter comprises some
shrewd dissecting of the personalities of
the three main characters, Hitler, Raeder
and Doenitz, with, rightly, the spotlight
strongest on Raeder. Raeder was essen-
tial to Hitler, and the Fiihrer set out to
seal his loyalty with Machiavellian
thoroughness and subtlety:
His task had not been difficult. The
restrictions of the\Treaty of Versailles had
chafed the officer corps, of which Raeder
was a stalwart member, almost beyond
endurance. They had thus been ripe for
Hitler’s promise of encouragement and
inspiration, and when he seized power in
1933 there was not much doubt in the
minds of Germany’s military leaders that
Germany had at last found a man capable
of leading her in the traditional paths of
military discipline and glory At a con-
ference Hitler assured Raeder that the Navy
would not be neglected. He discussed com-
plicated questions of naval construction,
explaining that he had studied the subject
as a necessary preparation for his role as
Fiihrer. He showed a great interest in
what Raeder had already done.... and
freely admitted his own ignorance of naval
strategy. Raeder, much the older man,
was flattered and overwhelmed. It appeared
that here, for the first time, was a ruler of
Germany who appreciated the importance
of sea-power.
As early as September, 1938, Raeder
began to put his Navy on a war footing.
Known as the “Z” plan, it envisaged a
force in which battleships and U-boats
predominated—there was insufficient time
to achieve a balanced fleet to oppose
England’s sea-might. The conception,
later put into effect, of long-range sub-
marines and commerce-raiders operating
against England’s tenuous supply-lines
was Raeder’s, and with the imminence
of war in 1939 a priority fist was drawn
up, with U-boats and battleships head-
ing it.
When Hitler did break loose, his fleet
comprised two battleships, two nearing
completion, three pocket-battleships, three
heavy cruisers, five fight cruisers and 57
U-boats.
Men had been meticulously trained,
and “though the old traditions had been
leavened with a Nazi outlook, Raeder
had produced a loyal and efficient body
of seamen [and] he chose able men
as his immediate assistants.” Admiral
Schniewind, chief of staff, a brilliant
strategist; Admiral Doenitz, with his im-
aginative theories for U-boat warfare;
and Admirals LuetjCns (later of Bis-
marck), Ciliax and Carls, all seasoned
fighting men":
It remained to be seen how Hitler, as
Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces,
would use the compact but powerful
weapon that Raeder had created.
From here on, basing his narrative on
the incontrovertible factuality of avail-
able secret documents—minutes of war
councils, meetings, actual operation sig-
nals, Fiihrer conferences, and so on—the
author proceeds to tell precisely how it
was used, from the first sinking of the
Athenia, on the evening war broke, until
the unconditional surrender nearly six
years of savage surface- and submarine-
warfare later.
Hitler intended to isolate the Polish
“incident,” and, by holding his hand at
sea, particularly in the matter of unre-
stricted submarine warfare, hoped to
lull the West into a similar lack of action.
Thus Athenia’s sinking, after Raeder’s ex-
press orders prohibiting such action, came
as so much of a shock to Hitler and his
admiral that both at first refused to be-
lieve it. When U-30 (Lieutenant Lemp)
made its base, and Lemp reported his
achievement, he was severely repri-
manded. Later, however, under the in-
sistent all-or-nothing advocacy of
Raeder, these niceties were forgotten.
The Admiralty no doubt noted with
satisfaction, from a secret report on the
subpect, that the immediate introduction
of the convoy system and the later arm-
ing of merchantmen made U-boat attacks
against them increasingly hazardous.
The spunky exploit of U-47, com-
manded by Lieutenant Prien, restored
Hitler’s faith in his Navy to enthusiastic
heights. Prien sneaked in past block-
ships supposedly guarding Scapa Flow
and put a brace of torpedoes into battle-
ship Royal Oak. His complete log of
the operation is reproduced.
Another action, described with the
peculiar penetration and understanding of
an active-service naval writer, is the Graf
Spec’s stoush off Montevideo, in which are
included all of the important enemy sig-
nals sent during its fighting, and Captain
Langsdorff’s last letter to Hitler, finished
a few minutes before- he shot himself.
Then follows the invasion of Norway
and Denmark, and a lucid exposure of
Quisling, damned for all time by the re-
production of his letters to, and minutes
of his meetings with, Hitler, and in which
he revealed the names of those likely to
receive the invaders sympathetically, of
those who would fight, the advantageous
places at which to land and how many
German troops would be needed to seize
them.
It is now generally known that Hitler
definitely intended to invade across the
Channel —operation “Sea Lion” —and
that he began to prepare an invasion.
He was stopped partly by conflicting
estimates by his service staff-officers,
partly by bad weather - and Goering’s
failure to smash the resilient R.A.F.,
partly by his developing interest in
attacking Russia, and, more than all these
considerations, by his overriding fear
of the Royal Navy. Hitler once admitted
to Raeder that “on land he was a hero,
at sea a coward.” It did not need the
apprehensions of a coward to appreciate
the blasting fury with which the British
Fleet, concentrated into a 50-mile
channel, would smash an attempt to land
on its homeland. The amount of shipping
required to land the invaders was esti-
mated at nearly 3000 barges and motor-
boats ; the Royal Navy’s steel-edged
stems would have milled among them
like hungry barracuda in a pool of fish.
After Hitler’s break with Russia, with
which the Navy was not much concerned,
the narrative returns to the second phase
of the Atlantic Battle,-in which Raeder
marshalled all his forces to prevent the
mounting of supplies for a second front.
The most arresting action in this
chapter, otherwise mainly statistics of an
increasing U-boat war, is the hounding of
battleship Bismarck. Here, its' continuity
enhanced rather than spoiled by clever
interpolation of signals and orders, and
an occasional shifting from one fleet to
the other, is the story of that epic hunt
and its grim conclusion, including the
full captured report-of a seaman aboard
Bismarck.
As was to be expected. Hood’s sink-
ing boosted enemy spirits ; and here, in
the report, is something new. Bismarck
took on both British heavies (Prince of
Wales, mistaken throughout the action
for her sister-ship, King George V., and
Hood) at the same time, forrard turrets
engaging Hood, after turrets Prince of
Wales.
At about 0600 smoke was sighted.
Action-stations were sounded. A few
minutes later the first enemy ship opened
fire. Then Bismarck and a second enemy
ship opened fire. The two forrard turrets
fired against the Hood and the after turrets
fired against Prince of Wales. While the
firing was going on, the a.-a. crews were
sent under cover because of splinters and
blast from our own guns. Out of interest
many remained on deck. Soon after
our second salvo had been fired it was
announced: “Enemy is burning”; after the
third salvo: “Enemy has exploded.”
During this engagement with* the Hood,
the after turrets had been scoring hits on
Prince of Wales, which thereupon turned
off. Hood was sunk at about the same
time. The general enthusiasm was great.
It became still greater when it was an-
nounced from the bridge that the enemy
were the largest British battleships.
But the hunt had merely begun. From
a panelled room in Whitehall, lines were
drawn on a chart of the North Atlantic,
and at the end of each line was a British
battleship or carrier. The hounds were
on to her, and 400 miles west of Brest
they tore her to pieces.
Space prevents detailed discussion of
further actions ; the author has skimmed
the cream of naval battles, from the
escape of Schamhorst and Gneisenau
from Brest to the classic routing of an
Italian Battle Fleet by cruiser Penelope
and her four consorts and the British
Navy’s gradual iron strangulation of the
U-boat pest in the Atlantic. Their story
is told with a sustained high pitch of in-
terest, each action presented as one more
stitch in the overall panoply of the war.
Throughout the book characterisation
has been achieved and maintained by the
mirroring of a man’s nature in his letters
and speeches, with some pertinent en-
larging on revealing points. And in his
covering of the Italian invasion, the mili-
tary debacle and political Nemesis reach-
ing for Mussolini, the author reveals
something of the analytical appreciation
of the historian.
With Italy’s collapse and the Admiralty
allowing 15-knot ships to proceed un-
escorted across the Atlantic; with short-
age of manpower making Hitler’s signa-
ture to permit the building of 40 extra
U-boats a month worthless; and with
the dreadful crescendo of high-explosive
cascading from German skies the “grisly
gang” were forced to admit not the
hitherto unthinkable prospect of a negoti-
ated surrender but the spectre of stark
defeat.
Here are the foothills of the climax.
Martienssen builds expertly, always with
restraint; his materials Raeder’s resigna-
tion ; the growing fear, and, finally, the
smashing actuality of invasion ; the plot
of July 20, when Count Stauffenberg
placed a dispatch-case holding a time-
bomb under the end of a large table
spread with maps on which Hitler leaned
one arm —only the thickness of the table
and the weak resistance to blast of the
room’s roof and floor saved him for
another day; the desperate production
fight, under the R.A.F. flail, to get
Schnorkel-fitted submarines into the
Atlantic, and, when it failed, the
attempted bolstering of the Army by
Doenitz’s offer of 20,000 naval troops,
“Fortress Germany” was splitting.
From signals, dispatch orders and the
evidence of Raeder (at the time in retire-
ment) at his Nuremberg trial, the whole
tragic drama is concluded in a concrete
tomb beneath the Reich Chancellery in
Berlin, with Hitler across the borderline
of sanity, deluding himself that he once
more controlled vast armies moving
freely over Europe. On April 30 he
killed himself.
This book comes at a peculiarly appro-
priate time —it is the corollary to
Churchill’s Memoirs, viewing the scene
from the other side of the hill. Rich
from beginning to end and of powerful
dramatic quality, the story is told with
the helpful assistance of an exceptionally
fine lot of photographs.
MACNELL.
Foller that Car!
“All crime, even fraud and sex, is
mobile now,” says ex-detective George
(Jack) Frost in Flying Squad (Rockliff,
London), raising questions to which the
reader, in the excitement of his book,
forgets to ask the answer. Mr. Frost
was a driver of one of Scotland Yard’s
mystery cars:
If I was to stop the big car making a
getaway, there was only one course. I
drove straight at him. This means a certain
element of risk to occupants of the police-
car; and, in fact, as the two cars locked,
with my dumb-irons in the radiator of the
Buick, one officer in the back of the Squad
car was thrown from his seat forward and
under the instrument-board in front.
Not that this is much in the life of a
Flying Squad officer. There was Inspector
Ockey, who jumped from the Squad’s new
Invicta on to the running-board of a
Vauxhall travelling at 50 miles an
hour:
Holding on with his left hand, he grasped
one of the crew round the neck, but the
Vauxhall increased speed again and two of
the. crew hit him on the head with a heavy
jemmy. As I wrestled with the wheel to
keep my car level we prayed that Ockey
would be able to jump back to safety, but
another member of the crew battered his
knuckles with an iron bar so that he fell
offr By God’s grace I managed to avoid
him as he collapsed into the road.
Scotland Yard found itself up against
shop-window thieves with such cars
as;
a converted old Bentley of the vin-
tage variety about 1928. It had a light
body, with a big drag-hook on the back
with which a steel chain could be hitched
on to such fittings as steel window-grilles
to pull them down. Seats had been fixed,
direct to floorboards, rear-springs reset to
give only 2i-inches clearance, thus lowering
the whole car for fast-cornering, and, of
course, the engine had been hotted up.
This car could do 66 miles per hour in
, second, about 78 in third, and over 80 in
top. Through the gears, 60 miles an hour
could be reached from standstill in 15
seconds, and 70 miles an hour in 22
seconds.
And another, stolen the night before
it was to have been entered in a road-
race: —
had a “Mown” 8-cylinder engine,
and on a clear road you could change
down at 70 miles an hour to gain accelera-
tion! but it will give you some idea of
the Squad car’s capabilities when I put it
on record that we chased this super car.
cau e ht and stopped the gang without
or damagmg the car.
Scott .show the Yard, with cold-
b>°oded effloency. preparing to copewith
fcse thrill,ng speeds, choosing a 30-120
b 'P;. I ? vlcta > modifying and improving it
tas ‘‘” B '' a L
"Sf‘S^sSoS ,, 3f O aS
xham Embankment while he drove the
... , black” car at full sneed
Then hi’ shows the car and the Squad
in acti jnst g ’ ngs ,
race teen-age gangsters, the re-
ceiverJ w » c drive s up B a , 0 ® thieves .
cars so that the jools may be thrown
across and the wrong car followed,
forgers, “phantom-car” gangs who steal
cars and change their numbers or break
them up for spares, letter-box thieves,
anc i j n the R OUS e, Furnace and Podmore
murder cases.
And, says' Mr. Frost, even though a
Squad car may do 80 miles an hour down
a London street, it is never, never, never
driven to the public danger.
An Old fantasy .
The appearance of the old American
literary magician, Christopher Morley, on
a Transatlantic Quiz has emboldened
Faber and Faber to reissue his fantasy
novel. Thunder on the Left.
First printed in 1927, this amazing box
of tricks is as good as ever it was; per-
haps family life has grown a little less
charming since those days and the days
of Herbert and Milne, but the mixture
of whimsy and wickedness is as fresh as
ever, the lemon as tart, the sugar in the
bottom of the glass as sweet. ,
George Granvilles still invite young
artists to their family parties at the sea-
side in order to make love to them; and
Mrs. George Granvilles still retaliate
by inviting young men whom they have
never met before to stay with them, day-
dream upon the desirability of their hus-
bands’ deaths and the details of their
funerals, and plan their approaches to
the young artists who are to take their
husbands’ places: -
All was clear in her mind. She would
»tell the girls to run ahead, and as they
twinkled down the slope she would turn to
Martin. Her eyes would tell him every-
thing ... No, not everything; but enough
to begin with.
Then I love you, she would say. Softly.
She whispered it to herself to be sure she
had the right intonation
So it goes on, an exquisite exposure
of marital and extra-marital poses, pre-
tences, excuses, lies, truths, cruelties,
kindnesses, the incredible ironies of
married life which become so matter-of-
fact to husbands and wives, until, just as
all the parties are more or less nobly
disentangling themselves, Mr. Morley pulls
the catch and the three children who have
been romping in and out of the book fall
thrbugh a rotted verandah rail, leaving
us to wonder whether Mr. Morley, the
charming essayist, is a secret enemy of
humanity, or merely the sentimental pro-
tagonist of children with irresponsible
parents.
A Howard Hinton Book .
As a memorial to Howard Hinton, who
besides giving many pictures to the
N. S. Wales National Gallery, gave to
Armidale Teachers’ College the finest
collection of Australian art in existence, a
book containing reproductions of his
donations is to be printed by Angus and
Robertson.
The letterpress will include a memoir
of Howard Hinton by Norman Lindsay
and an essay on the Armidale collection
by John Fountain, both of which were
first published in The Bulletin. There
will probably be 12 colorplates and be-
tween 20 and 30 reproductions in black-
and-white. Some of the colorplates are
already available; others will shortly
be made from the collection at Armidale.
The catalogue of the Armidale collection,
which is out of print, will be reprinted
and brought up-to-date in the volume, so
that in its final form it will serve a double
purpose: as an art book amounting to a
survey of Australian art —within the wide
limits of Howard Hinton’s collection —
and as a souvenir catalogue which will be
available to visitors to Armidale.
The proposal for 'the memorial book
came from Mr. R. H. Goddard, a life-
long friend of Howard Hinton’s and a
collaborator with him in picture-buying.
Mr. Goddard recently gave to the nation
his own valuable collection of aboriginal
relics.
The preparation of the Howard Hinton
book has been chiefly in the hands of
Mr, Goddard and Mr. C. B. Newlmg,
former principal of Armidale Teachers
College, who is at present attached to the
educational publications department of
Angus and Robertson. A grant of £-st>
towards the cost of the book was made
available by Mr. R. J. Heffron, N. S.
Wales Minister for Education.


TRUTH ™ ,N ADVERTIS,NG *
AsTHONf HORDERNS
:Pril
m
TO±H
rHW * -
: i I pi J
i
. i
mmmm
n I
m
''
mm
%
B 8
mm
msm
*
HI
i I
sffi
m
m
.
/•
s
1
v:
✓
'tsSSSS&m Ipp
■I
Graceful “Queen Anne 99 Deshs
Graceful Period Desk with rich
Mahogany finish has four roomy
drawers either side and one in the
centre. With overall dimensions
4ft. 6in. x 2ft. Gin. x 2ft. 7in., desk
features attractive rope edge.
Price £4O/11/6
Plate Glass Top, £4/15/- extra.
"finality Office Fnrnitnre”
“Seat Well" Tubular Steel
Executive Arm Chair
Revolving action, adjustable
height and back, sprung
upholstered seat, padded
back in Brown Leatherette.
Price £6/11/3
ready for immediate delivery
1
zsr
Z?
m.
-
yy
&
- -
mmm.
■
m
y*
y-"
•-"I
mm
ip: %
■ ■
m
#iP
«1
■
,
“Darley” Telephone Set
Finished in Cedar or Walnut, Serpentine Table with one
drawer, legs turned and reeded to match Chair. Latter
has sprung upholstered seat in Tapestry with cane back.
Table 30in. x 13in., 29in, high. Price £l4/2/9
Jacobean
Hall Table
in half circle design, is fin-
ished in Dark Mission Oak.
23in. x 12in. Table stands
29in. high. Price ... £3/9/6
Reception Chair
with screwed underframe, fin-
ished in Medium Oak. Saddle
seat, curved back rest. Ideal
for home or office use, £2 /3/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ FURNITURE
FLOOR. FREIGHT EXTRA.
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3613
Wednesday, May 11, 1949
HIGH MARK!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Map”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
Darid Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria ; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Wbstralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
"APART, BUT NOT ADRIFT."
Within the space of one April fortnight
two of the oldest lumps of the British
Empire split off in final expression of
antagonism to the idea of acknowledging
any common interest with the rest of the
realm under the British monarchy. In the
humoring of the sentiments of India,
rather than of Eire, the King’s status be-
came a stumbling-block. For India’s
sake it has been changed twice; first he
ceased to be Emperor, and now he is
King only to the British and British
colonial areas of the late Empire.
There are half a dozen viewpoints, all
of them pretty hazy, from which critics
are scrutinising the work of the latest
(and perhaps the last) of the Imperial
conferences just concluded in London.
Its delegates were in the majority
Socialists or Republicans, and their de-
cisions have completely changed the
complexion of “the association of nations
known as the British Commonwealth of
Nations.” It is supposed in some
quarters that the Statute of Westminster
also will have to be amended, for the
constitutional sanction which it gave to
that entity is, under the new go-as-you-
please order, emptied of legal value.
Eire was not there. On the eve of the
delegates’ assembling it formally pro-
claimed itself an independent republic, its
Prime Minister announcing that “we have
cut ourselves apart, but not adrift, from
the Commonwealth.” Despite the newly-
assured “right” of its people to enjoy,
while “aliens,” the status of “British sub-
jects,” Eire did not claim a seat at the
conference, and was not invited. Yet
the whole purpose of the conference was
to devise a status for India, which would,
as Mr. Costello expressed it, cut her
“apart, but not adrift,” from the British
realm.
Succeeding conferences will surely
have to compile a Whafs What for the
British Commonwealth. Of the old
British Empire, with its comfortable and
respectable assurance of individual free-
dom under thie English Common Law,
little remains. We are no longer ari Em-,
pire, are doubtfully (as the New Delhi
“Statesman” observes) a “British” Com-
monwealth, and are not, it seems, even
to be Dominions any more. The con-
ference was not able to concoct a new
name to describe the members of the
erstwhile Empire, either collectively or
individually. The word “Dominion,” we
are told, “jhas not been used officially for
some time, and will now be finally aban-
doned.” What are we then? A group-
ing of national States? Yet Canada and
New Zealand remain Dominions accord-
ing to their official titles; and Australia
is already a federation of States and is
apparently to appear henceforth as a
federal Commonwealth within a non-
federal Commonwealth.
The conference concentrated its verbal
gymnastics upon a demonstration that
the status of the King was being suitably
changed while being kept unaltered. King
George VI is henceforth to be King, or
“something like a President,” or simply
“Head of the State,” actually or in
theory, as his subjects and their fellow-
non-subjects choose to regard him; yet,
despite all the formula-framing skill of
the budding Socialist dictator at West-
minster, what common denominator is
left to express the relationship as
equal citizens of, not in, “the
Commonwealth” between the people
of the United Kingdom (or of Aus-
tralia) and the people of India
must baffle any constitutional lawyer.
That the constitution of the British Com-
monwealth does still matter considerably
is asserted by an Irish lawyer of long
standing in London, Mr. A. M, Sullivan,
K.C., who insists that on any challenge
in the courts the proposed status in the
U.K. of an Irishman of Eire —an alien
yet possessing rights as a British subject
—would not hold water for a moment.
Mr. Sullivan is closing his professional
career in London in face of a legal fiction
too absurd even for a Hibernian.
Contemporaneously it is reported that
the new habiliments are so easy-fitting for
all shoulders that Eire and Burma, now
independent republics, may be disposed
to re-enter the indefinable association
conceived by the conference’s Socialist
steering committee. The bait seems to
be those highly-esteemed benefits still
officially called “Empire” trade prefer-
ences—while they last.
Why was this dissolution of the Em-
pire structure necessary? Those who ask
this question-—and they will be the mass
of the Empire’s really British communi-
ties, unconsulted in this business from
first to last —may delve among such
assumptions as these:
Great Britain, which but half a century
ago ruled the seas with a two-Power naval
standard, acted as a kind of world police-
man, and owned immense investments and
trading interests all over the Seven Seas,
has, as a result of two world wars in
defence of all democracies, lost its military
power and overseas wealth. Crudely put,
“the Old Man” has lost his authority and
his money. He is, in fact, dependent today
for a bare living on American financial aid.
There is obvious threat of a third world-
war with another Power which has arisen
to bid for domination of the continent of
Europe. As throughout history, this threat
has to be combated by Britain while she
remains Britain.
The Russian aim at domination is also
directed against Asia, and while Britain and
France must be strengthened to save
Europe, India must be encouraged to help
save Asia.
American economic and political aid in
these efforts bring recognised as essential,
the U.S. Government has laid down certain
conditions. The British promises of self-
government to India and to Palestine after
World War I had to be fulfilled anyway;
but American opinion has been an impor-
tant factor in the withdrawal of British
influence from China, the hastening of
independence for India, and the setting-up
of a separate Jewish State in Palestine.
Communist aggression from Russia has
worked towards the same development from
within these regions. India, Turkey and
Japan are perhaps the last bastions against
a Soviet drive for all Asia; America is
nursing Turkey and Japan, and Britain’s
job is to nurse India.
But that is not all. A most curious
silence has been maintained on one de-
parture in British foreign policy highly
important to all the Dominions, namely
Britain’s participation in the European
Western Union, already a close military
coalition, and contemplated further as a
political and economic union. Its con-
sultative Council of Europe is already
created and will meet in Strasbourg in
August; and to the original five States —
now that the Atlantic Pact assures
American and Canadian military aid—
are being added to all, except Spain,
of the remaining Western European coun-
tries, plus the Scandinavian States and Ice-
land, A Customs union between France
and Italy is ready for ratification.
Whether a political federation, includ-
ing Britain, to be developed from these
beginnings will emerge from the ideal is
yet to be seen; but Mr. Churchill and
General Smuts have lent their influence
to forwarding the scheme. Its revival
under the impetus of the American-spon-
sored European Recovery Programme has
undoubtedly posed an acute problem for
Britain, and nowhere did it arouse last
year more anxious questioning than in
the British Dominions in the Southern
Hemisphere. What was to happen to the
Empire’s political structure and to Empire
trade preferences nobody could say. Maybe
the political answer is appearing now.
One thing is certain. To whatever ex-
tent Australia’s future must be affected,
the changes have been accepted by the
Chifley Government without any intima-
tion to the Australian people. Consulta-
tion of their views may not have been
practicable, but the Prime Minister’s duty
is at least to present to Parliament the
fullest information as soon as it meets
next week. Of the Western Union and
its implications neither Mr. Chifley nor
Dr, Evatt has yet said one word. Mr.
Chifley for the past two London confer-
ences has had close view of that move and
has been privy to the preparation of great
changes in the British Commonwealth
structure. It is his duty to give Parlia-
ment much more than his promised “short
statement.”
Dealing with Communists.
While much has been written about the
evil influences of the Communist party
and its allies in corrupting the trade-union
movement and the Australian Labor
party, there has been little effective action
in regard to remedies beyond suggestions
for better control of union ballots.
The Communist party in 1940, treason-
able to the core, demonstrated how in-
adequate mere excommunication can be
to a movement without a conscience and
with no respect for the law except when
it is on the Communist side. It trans-
ferred its political activities at head-
quarters to the care of a “State Labor
party,” which showed what its nature
was by amalgamating holus-bolus
with the main Communist body as soon
as the ban was removed in 1943., It pub-
lished its official organs regularly as clock-
work on a Russian-built press. Its agents
organised strikes in war factories, advo-
cated and carried out —until Russia was
attacked —sabotage of the war effort and
developed mass resistance to the intern-
ment of party officials caught red-handed
in treachery—they had been convicted by
a Commonwealth Special Court and sen-
tenced to imprisonment.
It defied the postal and National
Security regulations, abused the Govern-
ment in terms such as “bloody monsters,”
which applied equally to the Curtins as
to Menzies and his Ministers.
When the Curtin Government came
into office the Communists secured an
unofficial removal of the ban on their
public and corporate activities, the with-
drawal of pending prosecutions against
their members and the appointment of
one of their leading publicity officials as
Press officer of the newly-constituted
Australian Legation in Moscow. Then
early in 1943 Dr. Evatt formally declared
the party legal.
Despite the previous ban, prominent
members of the Communist committee
continued to direct the management of
large key unions in war industry, and
in doing so they largely directed the Gov-
ernment after October, 1941.
They directed Mr. Curtin’s weakling
Ministry to such an extent that they and
their fellow-travellers were able to
choose their own Minister for Labor and
Industry and to have appointed a suit-
able liaison-officer with themselves. They
were able to assure that so soon as the
Communist party had ceased to be under
suppression a trade-union panel to ad-
vise the Prime Minister should be con-
stituted, on which the majority of mem-
bers were Communists.
These last facts seem to provide the
Liberals with their cue. It is quite obvious
that the unions are the key to the situa-
tion, and so long as Communist nominees
can secure control of unions which the
party has succeeded in welding into in-
dustrial bodies capable of paralysing
national life, and so long as they manage
the finances of their unions in their own
sweet way, applying the funds to what-
ever purpose suits them best and deform-
ing the rules so as to make themselves
dictators of union policy and admission
of members, so long will Communism
continue to dominate the “Labor” move-
ment in spite of “industrial groups”
formed to “clean out the Reds” —in N. S.
Wales and Victoria, by the way, often
led by men who themselves have been
prominent Reds.
Where unions are based on democratic
constitutions the Communists make little
headway. The Australian Workers’
Union has resisted them, in the main with
success, for many years, though, it must
be admitted, in some centres only by com-
peting with them in extremism. Its re-
sistance might have been stronger had it
been firm and fair enough to keep poli-
tics out of its grand old body; but the
tendency to become political has always
been difficult for Australian trade-union
leaders to resist.
Since the bulk —though not all —of the
funds which finance “solidarity” strikes,
/‘regulation” strikes and all the other
forms of industrial sabotage in which
the Communists indulge must come from
the unions, and since the party’s greatest
prosperity and influence has developed
since they began to control these funds,
the way seems to be open for any Gov-
ernment which cares to bring to an end
the golden age which Communists have
enjoyed.
Firstly, it would be reasonable if all
unions, especially those which enforce
preference to unionists or compulsory
unionism in the industries which they
serve, were expressly forbidden by law
to subscribe or pay levies to any political
party. It is against all principles of
equity and fair play, the very negation
of political freedom, that an elector
should be compelled to give financial
support to political bodies against which
his Parliamentary vote is cast. It is even
more against all conceptions of public
morality that he should be forced to sub-
scribe to support sedition and lawlessness
in the form of illegal strikes and treason-
able propaganda. Yet it is beyond ques-
tion that all members of some unions
headed by Communists are compelled to
do these things or be hounded on to the
unemployment-line.
Secondly, it needs to be arranged that
there should be a proper audit of union
accounts and a proper and uniform
method of preparing and issuing balance-
sheets. Some of the union balance-sheets
which are issued —notably those of the
Federated Ironworkers’ —are impudently
inadequate and unsatisfactory. There is
no reason why the accurate and compre-
hensive balance-sheet of a trade-union
should not be available to the public, like
the balance-sheet of an industrial com-
pany. Even, however, if publicity were
felt to be undesirable, there seems to be
nothing to prevent a regular audit
being undertaken automatically each year
under the supervision of the Arbitration
Court authorities in order to assure that
the money which is collected from mem-
bers is properly applied and invested and
not devoted to the purposes of treason or
violence against the law.
Thirdly, it seems only right that there
should be some provision for limiting the
funds which a union may col-
lect from its members, as well as a rigid
restriction of the purposes to which funds
may be applied outside the main objec-
lives for which the members subscribe
them.
It is absurd in principle that unions
whose leaders have declared for the de-
struction of arbitration and its replace-
ment by the industrial rule of the jungle,
with a view ultimately to creating a state
of chaos preliminary to revolution,
should be allowed to build up huge funds
which they use to finance illegal strikes
■—-sometimes outside their own unions—
in line with their policy. It is against
public policy that unionists should be
bled white to publish journals whose con-
tents have little to do with the objectives
and ideals of rank-and-file members but
everything to do with the Communist
ideals and aims.
The whole financial system of the
unions needs overhauling. The blinds
which obscure its operation need pulling
up. And members should be in a posi-
tion to protect themselves from extortion
by their Sovietised bosses and told exactly
where their hard-earned subscriptions
are going.
If that policy is followed the Com-
munist party is in for a difficult stretch,
especially if, at the same time, the elec-
toral and membership-entry systems of
the big key unions which have been
moulded into their present shape under
Comintern and Red International guid-
ance are reformed and brought into line
with the traditions of British trade-union-
ism and of Australian bodies such as the
A.W.U.
Combined with the measures men-
tioned there should be rigid en-
forcement of the principles of in-
dividual responsibility. The require-
ments of the trade-union registra-
tion laws are at present flouted with im-
punity in some States. Legal officers of
public companies and public associations
who attempted to manage their businesses
as some unions are managed would soon
find themselves in hot legal water.
End of a Blockade.
The Berlin air-lift would seem to have
inflicted a decisive defeat on the Kremlin ;
but only time will tell the real story.
Acting with the native clumsiness of
the Bear, all the Russians achieved by
their blockade was to make Berlin’s mil-
lions suffer privation through the winter
and hate its imposers a bit more; the
Russians themselves getting a decidedly
steadying close-up of U.S.-British
capacity and efficiency aloft; and the
whole Western side being by the crude
aggression welded in the unity symbolised
by the Atlantic Pact.
Mr. Bevin said in the Commons:
“That resistance to the Russian attempt
to drive us out of Eastern Germany was
the first arrest of the onward march; and
it has been cheap—one year’s cost of the
air-lift being equal to one day of war.”
Very pointedly Mr. Bevin added that
he doubted if it had cost America or
Britain anything at all “compared with
the cost in military effort had Russia got
to the Rhine,” Further: “If we had got
out of Berlin the difficulty of holding
Western Germany would have been seri-
ous. The morale of Germany would
have gone, that of France would have
been shaken, and I am not sure what the
situation in Italy would have been,”
When Mr. Bevin spoke (March 23) the
air-lift had already taken into beleaguered
and hungry West Berlin its millionth ton
of supplies (between June 26 last year
and February 18).
Up to then the cost to Britain had been
some £4,000,000 and the lives of nine
British airmen ; the cost to America more
than £20,000,000 and 26 lives. But it was
to cost 13 more fine British lives up to
last week, when an American authority
gave the figures as 27 American and 22
British "dead.
On the “millionth-ton” feat London
“Times” commented: “The air-lift has
been a strategic exercise on the grandest
scale, which has changed all preconceived
opinions about the possibility of similar
operations in time of war. It is not only
the sheer tonnage carried which has done
this but the organisation which has made
it possible to land heavily-loaded aircraft
at three-minute intervals in weather bad
enough to stop all flying at airfields in
the Russian sector.”
The Western side wasn’t merely taking
it on the chin without hitting back. The
counter - blockade belatedly imposed
had more effect in bringing the Bear to
his senses than has been generally
credited to it. Meanwhile, the Russians
have made such a sorry mess of running
Eastern Germany that, as the “Times”
comments, “To make a trustworthy satel-
lite out of this miserable remnant would
be so hard a task that the Russians would
naturally prefer a united Germany—on
their own terms.”
Which terms the Berlin air-lift has been
primarily responsible for knocking stone
cold —unless, as has happened before to-
day, soft diplomatic heads should undo
the victory splendidly won by the men of
action.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Fireworks Season.
Next week will open a critical period for
the “Golden Age” artists. On Tuesday
begins the Arbitration Court’s hearing of
the A.C.T.U.’s claim for a basic wage of
£lO a week and bust. Thursday repre-
sents the dateline drawn by the Com-
munists running the miners’ executive
for prompt satisfaction of the demand
for shorter hours and another 30s. a
week under threat of a general stoppage.
On Wednesday Federal Parliament meets
for its final—and electioneering—session.
Chifley’s Cabinet is already wrestling
with questions raised during recess, such
as:
What to do about prosecutions of Com-
munists and the preventing of rigged union
ballots;
Whether McKenna should go ahead with
proceedings against miners’ leaders for last
month’s defiant closing of the'mines at the
“request” of Communist ironworkers’
leaders because one of the latter was in
.jail;
Whether the Stevedoring Industry Com-
mission shall be disbanded on Judge Kirby’s
initiative, another couple of Communists
having made that tribunal useless;
What can be done to buttress the new
streamlined dispute-settling machine under
Conciliation Commissioners now being
constantly flouted by Communist strike-
leaders. Incidentally, the miners’ executive
has announced that “it never has, and never
will, accept arbitration.”
The Communists, in short, are turning
the heat on the Chifley Government
according to the accepted theory that
political blackmail of “Labor” in election-
year is a winning gambit. The choice
before the Chifley Government is to
crawl to the Communists and admit its
errors, or to stand up to them and let
loose a flood of Communist revelations
beside which those of a late renegade
from their pack will seem small potatoes.
The Chifley Ministry has brought this
dilemma upon itself, and has richly earned
the political tribulation in which it is
now squirming. Its members don’t
know how to tackle the Communist
menace ; for too long they, have travelled
along with it in double-harness. Notori-
ously a general coal strike would write
finish to this “Labor” Government, and
a coal strike is just what is promised
unless the Government dances to the
Communist tune.
That futile body which purports to
govern “Labor’s” industrial wing' is also
worrying the hapless politicals in Can-
berra. The A.C.T.U. wants the Federal
Government to intervene in the basic-
wage hearing “as it did in the 40-hour-
week case.” The McGirrs in N.S.W.
are shivering in their shoes lest they also
be ordered to repeat their effort in antici-
pating the court. Quite apart from
the fact that political pressure can hardly
repeat the 1947 performance, political
“Labor” in office is thoroughly scared
of the results of a 60 per cent, boost
of the basic wage. Both Victorian and
S.A, Governments have entered appear-
ances to oppose the increase, and the
• Chifleys and McGirrs will pray in private
for their success in drawing a limit to
the extravagances Of the “Golden Age,”
If McGirr, for one, should thereafter
charge the Liberals with opposing a
£lO basic wage, it will be interesting to
hear him explain, as he did when legislat-
ing in advance of the court for a 40-hour-
week economy, that N.S.W. could “easily
meet the cost.”
Meanwhile, if the Communist strike-
mongers don’t get their way, there will
in all probability be a cessation of any
hours and wages at all in Australian in-
dustry—just to teach these sap-headed
Socialist fellow-travellers who’s boss.
The “Golden Age” is finished anyway.
Mr. Chifley’s Postmaster-General Camer-
on has told the Launceston Trades Hall
that a depression is at hand, and he
implied that it may even be useful as a
first-class election stunt because then
“Labor” can campaign with the slogan
that no other party can cope with its
impact upon that “planned economy” of
his leader’s boast,' wherpof hitherto no
sign of existence has appeared. And
“S. M. Herald” wonders why Mr. Chifley
hurried back from London!
* Commission on Communism.
Last week Victorian Premier Hollway,
showing courage and determination not
revealed by the McGirrs and Chifleys,
brought down a bill to establish a royal
commission “to inquire into and report
upon the origins, aims and objects of the
Communist party in Victoria, and the
operations and activities in Victoria of
that party, and members thereof and
organisations and persons associated
therewith.” The Communist party’s
Victorian leader. Comrade E. F. Hill, a
member of the State Bar and who accord-
ingly might have been expected to be on
the side of constitutional procedures,
promptly announced that “the inquiry
must not even be allowed to open, and
members must protest in every possible
way to prevent the commission from
sitting.”
No doubt the commissioner will have
power to deal with that sort of thing
under the bill; and the public, anyway,
will form its own conclusions as to why
the Communist party and its agents are
so anxious to avoid the light of day,
Opposition and counter-action from
outside the State will be more difficult to
deal with. Mr. Hollway’s move was fol-
lowed quickly by steps by the A.L.P.
Federal Executive to discuss the possi-
bility of an inquiry by the Commonwealth
Government, which would, of course, be
“limited” in its terms of reference to
suit the nerves and conscience of
“Labor.” And the executive of the
Victorian Trades Hall Council is
considering a “full-scale” inquiry into
Communist activities in the unions simul-
taneously with a hearing by the emer-
gency committee of the A.C.T.U., which
is reported by the Melbourne Press to
have invited over “Messrs. R. King,
M. Sydney, and H. Harvey, Queens-
land, to attend the meeting.”
Mr. King, of course, was official trade-
union leader of the Communist party for
some years from December, 1923, was
a Moscow delegate in 1938, and was
last September (vjhile a trustee of the
N. S. Wales A.L.P.), ordered by the
A.L.P. Executive to resign from the
vice-presidency of the Australian-
Russian Society on the ground that it
was a Communist body. If Mr. King
really wants to talk he might say a lot.
But will he?
It is to be hoped that the Victorian
Liberal Government will proceed expedi-
tiously with its inquiry. “Labor” Gov-
ernments cannot be trusted where Com-
munism is concerned. Even now sections
of political “Labor” are desperately
anxious to whitewash the Red menace.
That O.F.P. Bird Again.
According to Carl Berendsen, N.Z.’s
delegate, there was a “long, wearisome
argument” (A.A.P. report) on whether
the U.N.O. Assembly (Dr. Evatt, presi-
dent) should adjourn on May 14 to suit
Dr. Evatt’s departure for London to re-
sume bank-grab case pleading. At
length the New Zealander got tired, and
amid “applause and appreciative
laughter” from the floor and from public
galleries, delivered himself thus:
I suggest the Assembly for once should
settle its problems on a basis of common-
sense. Far too many delegates speak for
far too long and far too often. lam in
favor of closing on May 14, but only if
the Assembly has finished its work. Our
political committee has done exactly nothing
since it began and has spent week after
week talking about the first item on its
agenda—the Italian colonies. At its present
speed it has not the chance of a snowball
in a boiler-room of finishing by May
14....1 have never occupied the exaltea
position of the President of the Assembly,
and allow me to say to delegates that they
would not have liked it if 1 had.
And simultaneously Mr. Paul Hasluck,
who resigned from Mr. Evatt’s band of
U.N.O. mouthpieces rather than endure
any longer Our Foreign Policy’s “changes
of plumage in mid-flight,” let himself go
at a meeting of the Perth University
Liberal Club:
The incompetent and harmful blundering
revealed in the contradictions, impetuosity
and futility of action taken during Dr.
Evatt’s term of office shows him to be a
bad diplomat, who appears to have founded
his policy not on Australia’s interests or
needs but on the chances of following his
own alluring ideas in the midst of world
a ff a j rs
He has been unable to distinguish
between greater and lesser advantages for
his country, or to control his own impulses
to be in the midst of affairs at any cost.
It reads like the perfect description of
a limelighter in high office.
The "Free"-Medicine War,
Exchanges between Senator McKenna
and the B.M.A. which have been obtain-
ing much space in the Melbourne Press
are unmistakably outpost or propaganda
fighting in advance of the coming battle
in the courts. The B.M.A. has an-
nounced through the secretary of its
N.S.W. branch that
the moment the Act embodying the
“free”-medicine scheme is proclaimed, the
B.M.A. will move to test its validity.
He also declared to be true, as The
Bulletin has already said, that “the
principal advocate of strife between the
B.M.A, and the Government is the Prime
Minister ; all through the negotiations
the Minister for Health has taken a more
moderate line.”
Senator McKenna’s concessions and
delays as Minister for Health may not be
unconnected with his desire, as Acting
Attorney-General, to reduce to a mini-
mum any advantage to the B.M.A. in the
litigation threatened.
In the course of his Press campaign
Senator McKenna declared 10 days ago
that “the pharmaceutical-benefits scheme
will be working at the end of the year” —
that is, by the time the elections are on.
But he still is not ready with his revised
and re-revised formulary, which will not
be issued, according to his own state-
ment, for some weeks yet. Trades Hall
executives have been a little restive—they
don’t like McKenna much, anyway —and
(i Continued on next page.)
NOT CO-OPERATING.
“‘Labor’ Minister A. A. Calwell aims to bring 250,000 migrants to Australia. ‘Labor’ Minister E. J. Ward wants immigration restricted until enough houses are
available for the present population.”


.
■
CRAVENA
—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable fl
in 10’s & 20’$ /*
CARRERAS LTD. - OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
g&
a
A
6744
Mr. R. A. King, of Sydney, proposed the
other day that the unions should assert
pressure on individual doctors and pep up
the campaign a bit. To which McKenna
replied sharply that the unions could
“keep out of it,” that the Government’s
trusty sword was its legislation, and “there
is no need for pressure by anyone.”
The B.M.A.’s new Federal president
nailed the doctors’ flag to the mast with
a Press broadside last week;
Conditions of acceptance of service by
the profession in any Government-financed
scheme are, firstly, that payment should be
made on the “fee-for-service” system; and
secondly, that control of the scheme be
vested in a body predominantly medical,
representative of the profession, and with-
out any contractual relationship between
the individual doctor and the Government.
If the Government means to pay the
patient’s fee, let it do so by refund to the
patient rather than make the doctor claim
for half the fee from the Government.
Despite the Minister’s confusion of the
issues the medical professi9n had never
agreed to control by > the Director-General
of Health, who, by regulation, would have
unlimited powers; that doctors should be
divided into two classes, “participating”
and “non-participating,” and that the
patients of the latter should be deprived of
all Government benefits; that the profession
should be subject to a schedule of fees, a
form of price-fixing; or to make intimate
records of patients available to inspec-
tion by Government medical officers.
The Minister is allowing the doctors
—and Cabinet—a period for further con-
templation before action is taken. There
is very great need for reconsideration of
the whole “free”-medicine scheme and its
redrafting on a national-insurance basis.
In New Zealand and in Britain the costs
of “free” services, which have bolted far
beyond all Treasury estimates, furnish a
stern warning to Canberra. The British
Press, taking up the latest Cripps financial
statement, is freely declaring that the
frightening Government expenditure on
social and health services is supported
only by receipts from the Marshall Aid
Plan, and that when that peters out it is
these services which will first be cut—
for Government expenditure then will
have to be reduced drastically. An even
earlier review was forecast on Sunday.
Last week Mr. Chifley’s Postmaster-
General, addressing the Launceston
Trades Hall, said that a depression fol-
lowed every great war, and “that posi-
tion is developing now” with a buyers’
market. “Labor’s” Victorian campaign-
director Mr. Kennelly has been saying the
same thing and tipping the impact upon
Australia for the second half of this
year.
Well, when Mr. Chifley applies his
boasted plans for “gearing Australia” to
meet this depression and his vast new ex-
penditure is launched on Government
employment works, where is the taxation
to come from to meet the inestimable
costs of “free” medical services also?
When the blow falls the first casualties,
as in Britain, will be these “free” benefits
provided out of taxation sources which
in that day will simply dry up.
The time to replan the whole crazy
“free”-medicine stunt is now. There is
nobody of intelligence in the community
who does not regard it as a shameful
waste of money, or who believes that, as
it stands, it could possibly survive the
first cold blast of reaction from the post-
war orgy of Government extravagance.
POLITICAL POINTS
Country-party leader Fadden is still
plugging away against petrol-rationing.
He maintains that blackmarketing is so
prevalent that if the coupon system were
scrapped tomorrow there would be little
appreciable difference in the total con-
sumption of juice. To the Chifley-Ashley
story that importing extra sterling-source
petrol would merely mean a drain on
the sterling-area dollar pool elsewhere,
he retorts that Australia’s last cut in the
ration corresponded with an increase in
the issue on the other side of the Tasman.
That's a point Senator Ashley hasn’t
cleared up yet.
Berliners will doubtless rejoice at the
lifting of the Russian blockade, while
wondering, like , the rest of the Western
world, why the inhuman barrier was ever
imposed. It is not likely that they will
agree with some optimistic commentators
who see in the move a change of heart
on the part of Moscow; they are too
close to the Reds to make that mistake.
Professor Schmid, chairman of the West
German Constituent Assembly, was prob-
ably near the mark when he said that the
decision was made because the Western
counter-blockade had proved more effec-
tive than the Eastern blockade of Berlin.
The tactics of the Kremlin may change;
its policy and objective do not. As to
hearts —that suit is missing from the
Soviet pack of cards.
The Red bosses of the wharfies and
the miners seem about to launch an all-
out offensive against arbitration. The
Healy-Roach duo, who openly urged
watersiders to ignore the orders of the
Stevedoring Commission, Have now
cheekily demanded that the Government
remove Judge Kirby from the chairman-
ship and are trying to persuade the whole
organisation to back them up. On the
coalfields the Mining Unions’ Council is
threatening direct action if the mine-
owners don’t confer with them on.«heir
log of claims by May 19, and, as the
claims are already before the Coal Refer-
ence Board, the owners can’t agree to
this without flouting the authority of the
board. This is election year, and even
“Fixer” Ashley will have to consider the
effect another surrender would have on
the swinging vote.
Unrepentant and surlily announcing
that he wouldn’t “apologise” to the Arbi-
tration Court, the Communist McPhillips
came out of Long Bay jail (N.S.W.) after
doing a month for contempt of court,
went to the Domain and announced that
“What I said I stand by.” At the same
place the Communist Healy bravely an-
nounced that, regardless of Judge Kirby,
he wouldn’t resign from the Stevedoring
Industry Commission. How such fellows
ever got on the S.I.C. is one of the things
the Chifley crowd doesn’t invite questions
about. Meantime, in Melbourne, it took
the efforts of a large force of
police to save a couple of Communists
from a ducking in the Yarra by indignant
R.A.N. men when a Communist said
they’d “need their full rum-issue tp stand
up to the Russian Army.”
In the middle of the Fadden-Ashloy
uproar about petrol-rationing the Dunlop
people put out a bulletin which throws
a clear light on the problem:
Australia now needs 4.5 million tons of
petrol, fuel-oil and lubricants a year. It
imported 4.283 million tons in 1947-48,
worth over £A3O million. Demand is
ever-increasing. In 1948 the U.S.A. used
800,000 42-gal. barrels a day more than in
1946. Enormous oil profits have been
“ploughed back” into the search for more
oil, better refining processes and so forth;
as a result the world’s oil supply is better
than it was a year ago and promises to be
even better. In 1940 the world consumed
5.4 million barrels a day, in 1948 the figure
was 8.82 million, or more than 430 million
tons, excluding Russia and her satellites.
By 1953 the world will need 11.2 million
barrels a day, “A tremendous world-wide
search for crude oil is now under way,”
the search reaching to Australia and adja-
cent islands. No fewer than 440 oil-tankers
are being built or are on order in British,
U.S. and Swedish shipyards.
Mr. Fadden holds that rationing could
be abolished because there is plenty of
sterling petrol available; Senator Ashley
says that if we use more sterling petrol
we worsen the Empire dollar position,
and a British “spokesman” supports him.
But nobody will be surprised if rationing
is eased or abolished just before the
Federal election.
Amongst the volunteers in training
at the Singleton (N.S.W.) military camp
this month were at least three Members
of Parliament—Howse, M.H.R. (Lib.,
Calare), Bate, M.L.A. (Lib., Wollondilly),
and Cutler, M.L.A. (C.P., Orange).
Among Sydney North Shore Liberals
there is a move to include in the party
platform a pledge to make annual home-
purchase payments, or a proportionate
part of a lump sum paid for a home, an
allowable or rebateable amount for taxa-
tion purposes. A very sound political
move to assist in the rehabilitation of
responsible citizenship and personal thrift.
Anti-“ Labor” forces in Queensland,
a little down-in-the-mouth at Hanlon’s
redistribution bill, which they feared
would keep “Labor” in power in the State
House for evermore, are feeling chirpier
since the Brisbane council elections.
“Labor” contested most wards and put
plenty of effort into the campaign, but
polled fewer votes than in 1946. Alder-
: man Chandler retained the Lord Mayoral
chain with an increased majority, and his
Citizens’ Municipal Organisation held its
advantage of 13 seats to seven over
“Labor.” Q.P.P, leader Hiley saw in
the vote an indication that the Liberals
could win every metropolitan seat except
Brisbane at the Federal election, and said
that not even redistribution of seats
could save the State “Labor” Govern-
ment. Prophets will now be watching
the results of the polls in provincial cities
and towns. Polling-day is May 28.
After twisting itself in knots in unsuc-
cessful attempts to find a solution to
Sydney’s power troubles without bringing
down upon itself the stored-up wrath of
the public and the unions, the McGirr
Cabinet fell back on the time-honored
“Labor” device of passing the buck to
a Commission. Certainly a better
Commissioner could not have been
chosen —Mt Conde’s company, Bal-
main Electric, does seem to be able
to keep the power up to its customers
when not called upon to prop up Bun-
nerong—and his deputies, both from
other States, have a reputation for getting
things done. The N. S. Wales Govern-
ment has given these men very wide
powers. It remains to be seen whether
it will back them up.
Mr. Sheahan, the N.S.W. Minister for
Lands, who is making as good a fist as he
can of soldier-settlement in the face of
Commonwealth interference, has issued a
booklet of 12 plans for soldier-settler
homes together with the announcement
that his Government will grant up to
£l5OO of the cost of a home. The designs
are sensible and lend themselves to ex-
pansion, though the lack of adequate
verandah space is obvious. Still, the plans
are hot arbitrary, and Australian ingenuity
may overcome deficiencies. About
all that is required now is for someone
to persuade Mr. Dedman to let soldier-
settlement get a move on before (a) in-
tending settlers have spent all their sav-
ings, and '(b) prices for land products take
a tumble, >
Wheat is sprouting two feet high
among Indian coal in the holds of the
Haligonian Duke at Victoria Docks, Mel-
bourne. Reason? The vessel is owned
by a Canadian company, and the Cana-
dian Seamen’s Union says she should be
manned by a C.S.U. crew. It requested
the Australian Seamen’s Union to declare
the ship black, which it did, thus debar-
ring the waterside workers from unload-
ing coal which cost the people of Victoria
£45,000. The ship has been in dock three
months' and looks like staying there till
the crop is harvested.
“C. 8.”: The proprietor of a cafe in
Pakenham (Vic.), where R. G. Menzies
paused for a cup of tea and the oppor-
tunity to deliver an address to 40 people,
took no chances, and put this notice in
his window:
The views expressed here this day are not
necessarily those of this establishment.
Greek clubs in Melbourne which used
to be hotbeds of discussion often carried
the warning: “No Political Arguments
Permitted.”
In his annual report to the Metal
Trades Employers’ Association (N.S.W.)
president H. G. Ferrier commented on
the notion that many coalminers are leav-
ing the fields for other work because
they don’t like mining. He “ventures”
to say that most of those leaving are
doing so because they’re fed up with
constant losses of wages through the “in-
dustry-wrecking tactics” of a minority.
It’s probably true enough; what must
madden decent miners, as it does other
people, is the refusal of the N.S.W. and
Federal “Labor” Governments to shape
up to that “minority” and put it in its
place.
British and American broadcasters
claim to have broken through Russian
jamming of air-waves at the week-end
and got through to at least some of the
Russian people their version of the Ber-
lin blockade. The thing was described in
typical war-correspondent style by the
Press. It seems that a war of words has
succeeded the cold war. Some cynics
would almost prefer a shooting war to
another verbal one.
“Feng-Shui”; Congressman Atienza put
a new aspect on his bill in the Filipino
Parliament when he said it wasn’t aimed
at Australia as a result of the Gamboa
case, but had been drafted long before
to bring up-to-date a long-sustained policy
of the Philippines for the Filipino. They,
it appears, don’t regard themselves as
an Asiatic people, but as a bridge between
East and West, and for centuries their
policy had been aimed at maintaining the
independence of an underpopulated
country against the population-pressure of
Asiatic neighbors. That’s so. If the
Philippines had been wide open to the
Japanese or Chinese the 10,000 islands
would long ago have become an annexe
of one or other of those empires. During
the Spanish regime the method used was
somewhat drastic. Periodical massacres
reduced the Chinese population of
Manila ; one is said to have accounted for
20,000, which, however, Chinese mothers
succeeded in replacing in a few genera-
tions.
Canada’s Mackenzie King said not long
before his retirement:
Communism is no less a tyranny
than Nazism. It aims at world conquest.
It hopes to effect its purpose by force
So long as Communism remains as a
menace to the free world, it is vital to
the defence of freedom to maintain a pre-
ponderance of military strength on the side
of freedom, and to secure that degree of
unity among the nations which will ensure
that they cannot be defeated and destroyed
one by one.
His successor St. Laurent put it a little
differently;
Canada’s boundaries are no longer
merely geographical. They extend far
beyond her physical frontiers. They run,
in fact, through the hearts of free men
everywhere. On our side of the line are
all those in every country who work and
fight to preserve the freedom and dignity
of individuals against the unbridled impact
of totalitarian power and brutal might.
There can be no neutrality in this conflict,
which is as spiritual as it is political.
In effect, both agree that Communism
is no “philosophy” for free men to dally
with.
Victoria hopes to be virtually indepen-
dent of N. S. Wales coal within 10 years;
present plans aim at further development
of brown-coal resources with the object
of meeting 80 to 90 per cent, of the State’s
fuel and power needs. The most import-
ant problem to be solved is the best way
of utilising the brown coal for gas-pro-
duction. German experts recommended
an experimental plant in Melbourne, but
Powell Duffryn, Ltd., of London, dis-
agreed, Their suggestion was that
samples of Yallourn coal be sent to Pitts-
burgh (U.S.A.) for tests. If these were
favorable, construction of a full-scale
plant could begin right away. Twenty
tons of coal are now on the way to Pitts-
burgh.


PRINTED
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLED INKS"
“J.J.A.”: The guide conducted us into
the gallery in the House of Representa-
tives in Canberra and went on to tell us
how Parliament worked. Then he asked
“Are there any questions?” Back came
a woman’s shrill voice: “Yes ; when are
they going to reduce taxation?”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The jaw-breaker that
won an argument (“Pitt St.,” B. 20/4/’49)
took me back 17 years. I was in a dis-
used shop that had been loaned to the
unemployed as a recreation-room. A
budding Stalin had the floor and was en-
joying it —if nobody else was. “There’s
only one solution,” he thundered.
“Socialisation of industry.” A quiet-
looking fellow caught his eye, rose slowly
and politely asked: “Excuse me, but
would you mind explaining to me ex-
actly what socialisation of industry
means?” The orator gulped. This sort
of thing wasn’t playing the game: “Well,
it’s, . .it’s....” he stammered, “It’s sort
0f... I can’t exactly put it in words, but
I do know it is the one thing that will
“You must be getting close to the nerve"
lift us out of the rut.” The quiet chap
didn’t seem to be impressed. “Then your
solution is purely hypothetical,” he said.
I still remember the expressions that came
and went on the orator’s face: agree-
ment, suspicion, anger, relief, doubt and
finally a complete blank. “Y—es, per-
haps you could say it is,” he said and sat
down, his forehead registering his mental
torment as he tried to figure out whether
he had made a disciple or been chal-
lenged by a foe.
“K.H.H.”: A story which went the
rounds of the A.I.F. for years was that
of the joker who bought a horse in
Jerusalem for 10 mils. I claim to have
been in at the birth of it. Three of us
had gone to the Holy City on our first
leave and had sampled sundry ales with-
out costing the effects. We’d gone along
Jaffa-road and there hired a gharry,
but, instead of riding off in it, Tom and
I got out the other side and went into a
florist’s. That’s when we missed Bluey.
A few minutes later, as Tom and I were
seated on the floor sorting out seed-
packets—“one for me and one for his
nob”—we heard a commotion outside.
From the door we saw the crowd
scattering in all directions, and Bluey,
mounted on a horse, galloping up and
down the street with several British red-
caps on his trail. We were with Bluey
when he tried to tell the Tommy officer
that he had bought the horse for 10 mils.
It is untrue to say that they arrested him
for pinching the horse. The arrest was
made because Bluey insisted that the
officer hold the horse while he went to
find the bloke he’d bought it from.
* * * *
“R.M.”: I suspect “Ex-Dig” (B.
27/4/’49) of being an ex-Q.M.S. Re-
ferring to socks, he writes: “Each man
carried three pairs.” On the Somme in
the winter of T 6 the 30th Battalion spent
15 days in the open, eight of them in a
turbid sea of mud. None of us had gum-
boots and many had no socks. Those
who had found that 24 hours made a
pair as useless as a wet cigarette-paper.
We tore the tails from our flannel shirts,
then the sleeves to make “Prince Alberts”
to wrap up our toes. That is one of the
reasons why the 30th holds the unenvi-
able record of 55 members having one
or both feet amputated through trench-
feet. A brief S.O.S. to my kin in Scot-
land promptly brought a parcel of 20
piebald pairs of socks. A letter explained
that the feet were new, though the tops
were old ; this had saved time and money.
That parcel ensured that the Duckboard
Harriers in 16 Platoon had one pair each
for their next tour of front-line duty.
* * * *
“T.J.”: Another traveller who had his
eyes wide open (B. 20/4/’49) was Mark
Twain, and he, too, remarked on the
blueness of Australian hills. He also had
something to say about the rabbit plague,
apparently as bad in 1895 as in 1949.
Mark was somewhat astray in his topo-
graphy when, in that part of Following
the Equator dealing with Australia, he
placed the Blue Mountains near Albury,
giving the name to the characteristically-
colored alps he could see from the train.
He wrote:
A resident told me that those were not
mountains—he said they were rabbit-piles.
And explained that long exposure and the
over-ripe condition of the rabbits was what
made them look so blue. This man may
have been right, but much reading of books
of travel has made me distrustful of gratis
information furnished by unofficial residents
of a country. The facts which such people
give to travellers are usually erroneous,
and often intemperately so. The rabbit-
plague has indeed been very bad in Aus-
tralia, and it could account for one moun-
tain, but not for a mountain range.
* * * *
“Pongo”; Where did “Pink Tape” (B.
13/4/ ’49) get the idea that with each
addition to Sydney G.P.O. immense
quantities of concrete were forced under
the foundations to strengthen them? I
helped build the main additions —old
operating-room and telephone-exchange
in the late 90’s, and worked on all addi-
tions to the old shell until 1910. During
those years no reinforcing of founda-
tions was carried out. Foundations under
the tower are extraordinarily solid. They
had to be considering that they are only
a matter of feet from the still-running
“Gee! And you haven't really Warmed up yet!"
Tank Stream. It may be possible to re-
assemble the masonry of the G.P.O. tower,
which I last saw strewn over a paddock
at Marpubra, but the beautifully-executed
copper cupola has disappeared. It was
cut up and used for war supplies.
* * * *
- “Coreen”: Don’t know whether it’s the
first in Australia, but an air-pilot
brought a tenner and costs at Albury the
other week for low flying, A Corowa
farmer told the court he was driving
along a road when an aircraft came so
low over him that he thought he was
going to “collect it.” A traveller in the
same car said the wings “almost touched
the car.” For his part, the pilot declared
he was in. perfect control and there was
never any danger. It sets me thinking
that perhaps if motorists could be sued
for driving too close to another car there
might be fewer accidents, though, as in
the Albury case, the court would have to
choose between the evidence of both
parties.
* ♦ * *
“Ike Hollar”; A coursing official re-
cently told a Sydney court that hares
enjoyed coursing. He was a bit behind
the times, but the idea that chased ani-
mals enjoyed themselves used to be very
widely accepted; it is only in modem
times that it has grown to be regarded
as laughably foolish. An uncle of mine
with a taste for fox-hunting was very
firm in his assertion that Brer Fox en-
joyed the pastime as much as anybody.
He had a tale of an old fox that used
to come out looking for the dogs of the
West Surrey Hunt in its impatience to
get the sport moving; it had been the
quarry of many hunts and always
escaped. Unk was very fond of animals,
and he was undoubtedly sincere. So,
apparently, are the humanitarians who
maintain that fish do not feel pain as
warm-blooded animals do. The real ex-
cuse for fishing—if one is needed —is the
food one, coupled with the knowledge
that going after your own is a good,
healthy pastime.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: That licensee (B.
27/4/’49) who poured a glass of beer for
her grandson of four was a sensible
woman, and the evidence for her good
sense was her five sons, who, as “Flea”
reports, had all drunk beer before they
could walk and none of them was a
drunkard. Nine-tenths of the obsession
for drink in our society is due to the re-
pression put on it in people’s childhood.
That can be seen by the naughty ex-
pression that comes on the faces of most
grown-ups when they have a drink or even
talk about it. The revolt against authority
is the biggest ingredient of our pleasur-
able feeling,, and as most of us have been
told in our youth that, like sex,
it’s naughty, the repression is almost
universal. I never touched a strong
drink until I was 19. Then one hot
evening I fell for the first time when the
uncle I was with invited me into a tavern.
“What’ll you have?” he said. “Same as
you,” I answered, and he ordered beer.
When we got outside I told him it was the
first drink I’d ever had. “Good God,
boy!” he said with an expression as if
the gates of Hell had opened and he had
pushed me in. “Why didn’t you tell me?”
The next time I encountered strong drink
I was far from parental control and I
got blind, blue paralytic, and was sick
for a week. I never get blind now, though
I drink a lot and enjoy it; but then I
haven’t a bad conscience about it, as I
had then.
* ♦ * *
“Nunk”; He was one of those people
you meet by chance every 10 years: a
worried young student in a boarding-
house 20 years ago; a clerk, still study-
ing and worrying in a big social-arithmetic
company, 10 years later. I met him again
the other evening, hawknosed in a
heavy overcoat and homburg hat.
“Aha! Still writing? I’m a solicitor
now,” he announced, “Really? How
are you finding it? They say the
law’s pretty dull these days,” “Maybe,
maybe”—all the worry had gone; he
was cheerful, even hearty. “But I find
there’s a very good thing in little divorces.
And how are you doing? How many
kids have you got now?’’ “Two,” I
said, upon which he slapped me on the
shoulder and beamed: “Three!” he
shouted. “You’re slipping, boy; you’re
getting lazy; ah, there’s nothing like a
big family!” And he strode off to his
tram, obviously anxious to regain the
scenes of domestic bliss so incongruously
subsidised.
♦ * * ♦
“The Turk”: We were having our first
spell out of the line back near Fort Pil-
astrino and had settled down for a yam.
All the best-known brews had been
analysed (from memory, alas!), and the
conversation was turning to less import-
ant topics when a black-bearded giant
joined the circle. Ten minutes passed;
then during a lull in the discussion Joe
nodded across at the newcomer and
grunted,. “G’day.” “G’day,” returned the
beard, and the discussion continued. An
hour later the visitor rose. “Got to get
back t’ lunch,” he said. “See y’ again,”
said Joe, and the bearded one withdrew.
As he disappeared the corporal asked,
“Who’s that, Joe?” “That’s me brother
in the Pioneers,” said the big fellow,
“Haven’t seen him for 18 months.”
* * s *
“Kathleen Buckle”: May I chip in on
the early-movies argument? These travel
pictures —there were many of them--
were shown at the “Tourist Cars” in
Pitt-street, Sydney, in 1906. My first
husband, Frank Musgrove, youngest
brother of the theatrical family, and Hugh
J. Ward were the proprietors of the
show, which was situated on the site of
the old Irish-linen shop; Bridges, I think
the name was. I have all the papers
about the show and can even give you the
name of the gold-braided “stationmaster”
referred to —Redgrave.
THE GOSPEL OF DEDMAN.
“Mr. Dodman, Minister for Defence, admitted that
the cost of living in Australia had gone up by more
than 50 per cent., but pointed out that since the
national income had doubled, everybody knew in
their hearts that they were better off today than
ever before.”
The Golden Age, you’ve heard Ben Chifley say,
May be anticipated any day.
You’ve his assurance that it’s imminent,
Thanks to the present “Labor” Government,
Just round the corner, waiting to begin
Its job as soon as it is ushered in.
But Deddy, you may notice, pats across
A more forthright assertion than his boss.
“The Golden Age,” he says, in ringing clear
Tones. “Why, it’s here! Just look around, it’s
here!
“When ev’ryb'ody knows he’s drawing more
In £ s. d. than ever he did before
From honest toil or any other way
Devised to keep the prowling wolf at bay,
From mining coal to separating pods
From peas, from scrawling rhymes to laying
odds,
Who wouldn’t realise his land’s become
A pocket version of Elysium,
Where all of us, of high or low degree,
Enjoy unparalleled prosperity?”
Still, Deddy, when you’re paid a quid or more
For work you once drew fifteen shillings for,
Yet, when you come to spend it, find the quid
Buys less than last year’s fifteen shillings did,
Would you—l put it to you fair and square—
Hold you were better off than ev’r you were?
If wages rocket, as they’re apt to do,
And prices simultaneously rocket too,
From hardy toiler up to languid toff,
Who in the blazes can be better off?
Dedman, you’re surely one of whom it’s said
They cannily foresaw the rocks ahead,
Arid jumped their salaries up to the positions
Obtainable only by our politicians.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


your dependants look to
VSSL
to make the wisest
Your choice of an Executor and Trustee is a decision which directly
affects the welfare of your dependants. Your Trustee should be
chosen for his business knowledge, integrity, experience, perma-
nence and financial stability, otherwise you may imperil your
family’s inheritance. An executor should not be selected on
grounds of sentiment or affection. Avoid all risks by appointing the
Permanent Trustee Company. You can then be assured of expert
administration of your-affairs, combined with absolute security and
safety.
Why not call and discuss this matter further, with one of our
Executive Officers? Or write for free booklet, “Trust Estates and
Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS: ?
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D,
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.ChM., F.R.A.CJS,
J. R. Faviell
Manager : N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager : C. N. P. Whittle Sub Manager : S. U. White
Secretary : F. R. Garland
23-25 O'CONNEIt STREET
w//a
If
COMPANY OF N.S.w. LIMITED
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALES
*T.n.»
“C. 8.”; “R, Gerlind’s” reference (B.
27/4/’49) to Dick ’Jagoe, the shipping re-
porter for Adelaide “Register” way back
in last century, as the Sandhill Savage
interested me, as. it was my father who
gave him the title in the columns of that
paper, I also went out in the launches
to board ships at the anchorage with old
Jagoe in the ’nineties—those were the
days when as many as 30 windjammers
would be anchored off the Semaphore
waiting for the shift of wind that would
take them out of the Gulf with the
season’s wool clip. A greater joy was a
passage on one of the tugboats, steaming
40 or more miles down to pick up incom-
ing sailers. There was an added joy if
I could wangle a transfer to a square-
rigger and travel up with her with all
sails set to Largs Bay. That was when I
first learnt of the Australian accent.
“When are you going to lower the sails?”
I asked a Norwegian captain. “Sites —
yoost Vot does the boy mean?” he
queried, turning to the pilot.
• ♦ * •
“Clooter”: My morning paper informs
me that a paint company claims to have
produced a special kind of paint to give
protection against the gamma-rays of the
atomic-bomb—the fays that can cause a
lingering death to anyone affected. It
takes my mind back 30-odd years, when
I read a story called “The Messiah of the
Cylinder.” It was a magazine serial, and
m it a young man was enclosed in a
cylinder for 100 years, emerging in as
good a state as he went in. He found
“a mechanistic world is the Inferno
brought to earth,” and, among other
things, discovered flying-machines destroy-
ing people and cities with rays. But
London had survived, for London had
painted all its buildings, and presumably
its people, with a mysterious blue paint
which blocked the rays. I never knew
how that yarn ended, not reading the
final instalments, but it shows how one
more fictioneering prophet got close to
the truth.
$ 4* 4 4*
“Jasby”: My eight-year-old saw his
first cowboys-and-Indians film recently.
It was “beaut.,” and he’s been whooping
like a Cherokee ever since. One thing
had him puzzled, though, and he came to
me for guidance. What he wanted to
know was “Why do they call the goodies
‘cowboys’?” In the usual offhand
parental way I replied that they called
them cowboys because they were cow-
boys, None the wiser, he said, “But
where does the cow qome in?” I cast my
mind back over westerns I had seen and
realised the pertinence of his question.
Hollywood cowboys are depicted riding
horses, fighting Indians, playing cards,
running crooks out of town, crooning,
yodelling, strumming guitars, putting dis-
honest sheriffs in their place, getting
drunk, shooting-up saloons, feeling em-
barrassed in the presence of school-
ma’ams, wiping away a manly tear at
the death of a buddy, preventing city
blokes from foreclosing the mortgage,
whittling sticks, lassoing baddies and in
general upholding Justice against eternal
evil, but seldom or never are they shown
performing the job which gave them their
name. Patiently I enlightened my
son on the routine tasks of a cowboy. He
was not impressed. “It can’t be that,”
he said. “There weren’t any cows in the
picture. But, gee, it was beaut,”
j|c j|c 4 s
“Kimat”: “Chambers’ Journal” de-
scribes the newly-invented robot dancing-
instructor. The pupil stands on a glass
panel, presses a button, and red (for right
foot) and green footprints appear, reveal-
ing the pattern of the movement. Warning
arrows guide his steps, and the footprints
flash white to the time of the dance. “At
a later date, the inventor intends to in-
clude a sound system which by audible
beats will help the dancer still further.”
After that it will only need a device to
make him sensitive to his partner’s toes,
skilled in dodging bump?, and adept in
“Quiet, Herbert! I Want to HEAR this number .”
bright conversation, and he will be ready
for the ballroom. One thing more,
though: he has to be able to hold the girl.
But will he want to dance with a human
partner?
♦ * * *
“Ex-pris”: Back in 1944 a new batch
of prisoners was being distributed among
the huts of Stalag IV B, In one hut a pre-
Dunkirk prisoner, a Norfolk lad, heard
the dialect of his county spoken by a new-
comer. Comparing notes they found
they were from the same town, same
suburb, same street, same house. “But,”
said the old hand, “that’s my house!”
“No!” said the new. “It’s mine. I
married the widow who owned it.” Yes,
same wife! It turned out that the old
prisoner, for reasons of his own, had
given a false name when captured, and
had never changed it. His wife had been
granted leave to presume him dead, and
had remarried. I don’t know what the
final outcome was, but while I knew them
the two husbands shared their parcels,
too.
* ♦ * ♦
“Bo”: Some of the shops, I note,
“proudly” announce the return of the
shirt with the double-cuffs. I am not
interested. Nor, I think, will the house-
wife bless their reappearance. Apart
from the extra work involved in ironing
the cuffs the re-turning of the things when
they fray is listed among the hatefuls in
the mending line. But my chief objection
is that you pull the shirt over your head,
tuck it in, adjust your then find
you haven’t put your cuff-links in.
Brother, have you ever tried to put links
in* cuffs with one hand? That’s a sure
blood-pressure-raiser. So what do you
do? Drag the shirt off again, of course,
and put the links in. And the trains,
trams and buses that are missed in a
year during this vital process would shift
an Army corps. Away with the curse—
the austerity buttoned single-cuff for me.
* « ♦ *
“Mister Bromley”: “Hamfat’s” assault-
case narrative (B. 13/4/’49) brings to
mind evidence given in a murder trial in
a Victorian town before Chief Justice
Madden. A witness said: “I saw the
chap in the dock there. Yes, he was the
bloke all right. Doing a sprint across
Sydney-road and making a beeline for
the pub. He was trembling like any-
thing and was sweating a real treat.” The
Judge, in his summing-up, said of this
evidence: “Gentlemen, the witness im-
pressed me as an observant witness, a
truthful witness and a witness whose evi-
dence on the question of identification
should be given due weight by you. May
I refresh your memory. According to
my notes he said T noticed the accused.
the man in the dock. I have no doubt
he was the man I saw proceeding across
the public highway known as Sydney-
road. The accused was going at a rapid
rate towards the hotel. The accused ap-
peared to be visibly affected and was
perspiring profusely.’ ”
* * * *
“Hamer”: Beer was my usual lunch-
time beverage when, as an infant of six, I
went to England and stayed in my grand-
parents’ home. Not caring much for the
stuff, I sometimes found means of jettison-
ing it. I was also given a glass of wine
before I went to bed, Grandmother’s
idea being that a boy should be trained
to “carry his liquor like a gentleman”;
besides, it was body-building. That was
a fairly general view 50 to 60 years ago.
* * * *
“Verast”: Fights without an audience?
A Brisbane headmaster was worried
about the amount of fighting that went
on at lunch-time. His solution was to
put the boys concerned in an upstairs
room, close the door and, with only him-
self present to see fair play, let them
fight it out till one cried quits. He argued
that brawling would lose most of its
attraction if he could eliminate the “roar
of the ring.” The scheme worked well
for a time. Then suddenly the fights
flared up again. Same cure was tried,
and after each bo\it he watched the prin-
cipals walk downstairs. Every time the
first inquirer at the foot of the stairs
was the same lad. Investigations showed
that he was acting as promoter and
running a penny book on the outcome of
the stoushes. He and the master were
the principals in the next bout —also
without an audience.
♦ * * ♦
“Mozzer”: If the Commonwealth coat-
of-arms on the new five-bob stamp is
correct (B. 4/5/’49), then the one on the
new florin must be wrong. It shows the
sun and three wheatsheafs of South Aus-
tralia’s coat-of-arms granted in 1936, but
it has a crown as the crest instead of a
seven-pointed star. The present sixpence
depicts a coat-of-arms which has been
obsolete since 1912.
« ♦ ♦ •
“Blue P.”; In a reshuffle in a Govern-
ment department a friend of mine found
himself moved up to a position of minor
authority. The first thing he encountered
on his desk was an application for a
week’s extra leave. It was his own, hav-
ing been sent in a fortnight before. He
duly granted the application, put on his
hat and walked out. He’ll be back the
day this appears, certain that for the
next month he’ll be straightening the
thing out.
* * * *
“H.W.M.”: Two Melbourne men made
arrangements to buy a sawmill from a
Ballarat machinery merchant who had a
lien over it. The mill was away in rugged
country, so the merchant drove them about
20 miles out to the site. They all wan-
dered round for an hour without finding
the mill; even the merchant began to
think he had brought them to the wrong
spot. Then they discovered some debris,
but still no mill, so they gave up the
hunt and passed the job over to the
police. The cops found that an enter-
prising citizen had shifted the whole show
to an almost inaccessible mountain hide-
out and was working it on his own
account. His plea that the mill had been
standing idle for so long that he thought
it was nobody’s property didn’t save him
from a two-year sentence,
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Coffeecup”: I met a man I hadn’t
seen for a long while; he was doing well
in the calendar business ; had ’em booked
up to 1951, so the world can’t afford to
end this year, whatever the dismal pro-
phets say. “And maybe,” I said, “you
can introduce us to some of those beauti-
ful models without any clothes” At
which his face became severe. “By no
means,” he said. “Pin-up girls are going
out, not only here, but in America.
There’s always someone who will take
offence. They were all right during the
war, but now that competition is back
again no firm will risk giving away calen-
dars that may lose it 10 per cent, of its
business.” And he showed us a fine range
of seascapes and flower-pieces at which
nobody could possibly take offence.
* * ♦ ♦ ’
“G. 1.8.”: This is not propaganda, but
fact. The other day the trading-bank
branch wherein I shuffle notes received
among cheques remitted from head office
one showing a blurred, indistinct amount.
It looked most like £l, and as we had re-
ceived it as such we debited our customer
that sum. Some weeks later a branch of
the Commonwealth Bank ’phoned, claim-
ing the amount to be £7. A check with
our customer confirmed our figure. Then
we found that the Commonwealth had
accepted the cheque as £7 for credit to
a customer who, before discovery of the
error, had closed his account. The mis-
take was understandable, but not the
manner in which they wanted us to cor-
rect it. Their proposal was that we charge
our customer with a further £6 which they
suggested he could collect from their ex-
customer. We naturally refused, but had
we been a branch of the One Big Bank
there is no doubt what the routine would
have been.
POOR WAT!
“Two of the first three hares killed at Rooty Hill
ran into the second greyhound while attempting to
elude the faster one.” —News item.
Poor Wat! How true the picture Shakspeare
shot of
Poor Wat, as o’er the countryside he goes
His way, with friends so few and such a lot of
Human and quite as many canine foes,
Hunters from whom the only hope he’s got of
Escape lies in the fleetness of his toes.
And even then it strikes you—does it not?
How oft the dice are loaded against Wat.
“Merry and brown,” he seemed to Kingsley,
leaping
Over the upland ways whereon he went.
His color-scheme he’s naturally keeping
In this or any other continent,
But when the long dogs after him are sweeping
I’ll say he’s little cause for merriment
At Rooty Hill or any such resorts
Where he provides a bill-of-fare for sports.
Coursing? The pastime is as old as many
Or most of our forefathers were experts at;
But after all they never featured any
Chase from outside their quarry’s habitat.
Why, Parson Adams wouldn’t have giv’n a
penny
For such a travesty of sport as that,
A fearful creature butchered, you might say,
To make a Rooty Hill-side holiday!
Cockfighting, baiting bulls, these old diversions
In which our dads were wont erstwhile to
engage,
Are nowadays material for aspersions
On the coarse tastes of a departed age.
Isn’t it time for similar excursions
’Gainst putting timid hares upon the stage
(Trapped pigeons, too) for papers to report
Under the misdirected name of Sport?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGINALITIES
“B. A. Ker”: Yes, a sugarbag can
make an efficient towel (B. 13/4/ ’49); in
fact, the old bag has more uses than the
kerosene-tin used to have. As an apron
it protects many a bush Mum on washing-
days and, when well made and bordered
with a strip of colored material, com-
bines neatness with utility. Dyed, and
hung to the windows, draped on packing-
cases, or strung across crude corner
wardrobes, it has turned plenty of hovels
into homes. It is the swaggie’s tucker-
bag and a saddlebag for the horseman.
No other carry-all has its capacity when
full combined with the merit of being
small enough to shove into a pocket when
empty. It carries the ferreter’s nets, the
fisherman’s gear, the post-splitter’s Wedges
and the bush-carpenter’s tools. The
Christmas dinner is invariably carried
home with its head stuck through a hole
in a sugarbag. It can be a pony’s nose-
bag, or, as I saw it once, an untearable
football guernsey—some harassed mother
of many boys having conceived the idea
of cutting a head-hole and two arm-holes
in the versatile article. The local snake-
charmer (and every district seems to
have one) always carries his prizes in the
familiar jute bag; while the bag that
contains the unwanted Cat, plus the brick,
invariably bears the brand of the Colonial
Sugar Refining Co. There are scores of
other uses, but not until bulk sugar is
sold in cases will thousands of Aussies
realise just how much they depended on
the good old sugarbag.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Several times during the
day I’d noticed Seventyfiver drop the tool
he was using, inspect his mitt and give it
a flap; so I wasn’t surprised when we
reached the hut to see him get down the
worn-out shearing cutter he keeps for
such jobs and begin scratching around on
his hand. “Never was no good gettin’
’em out with me left hand,” he grumbled
presently. “Here, Sol., see if you can
find this log o’ wood I picked up, will
y’?” I took the cutter and dug in where
he’d been excavating. “Sure this is the
place?” I asked after a bit. “ ’Bout it.
Y’ might have t’ dig a bit.” I probed
around for several more minutes. “What
makes you think there’s a splinter in
here?” I pursued doubtfully. His snort
was eloquent. “Well,” I protested, “I
can’t even find it, so I don’t see how you
expect me to dig it out.” “I never asked
y’ t’ dig the blasted thing out,” he re-
turned testily. “I want y’t’ locate the end
of it, that’s all, an* give it a tap back with
the handle o’ y’r pocket-knife or some-
thin’. It’s broke orf 100 short back here
on the other side f’r me t’ get a proper
grip of it.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Station men
in the far north-east of South Australia
have laid in six months’ food supply, as
the waters of flooded Cooper’s Creek
have nearly Lake Hope, 100 miles
east of Lake Eyre, and they are expected
to creep towards Australia’s biggest
waterhole any day. A mate of mine,
who was over the Marree-Birdsville track
a week or so back, reports that, accord-
ing to the old-timers, for the first time
in 80 years the gibber plains, which at
Christmas comprised the usual dust and
stones, are now an artist’s as well as a
stockman’s paradise. Masses of gor-
geously-colored wildflowers, thick grasses
and even, in places, Mitchell grass 2ft.
high now carpet the area. But perhaps
the most unusual occurrence is the bril-
“What Were we fighting about , anyway?"
liant scarlet and black-eyed Sturt desert-
pea which has come out over vast areas
five months before its usual flowering
season.
* * * *
“Blime”: Dan’s place was old. One
after another the ancient buildings had
collapsed, and with his hut rocking in
every breeze he decided he’d better build
new living quarters. With a virtue that
made Job seem neurotic, he trailed build-
ing materials, then went after a carpenter.
On bended knee and almost with tears
in his eyes, he eventually persuaded one,
with promises of extra pay, shorter hours,
and no lifting, to knock him up a small
place when he’d finished his four years’
bookings on hand. Time passed, and by
accepting inferior substitutes for nearly
everything he wanted, Dan’s new building
at last materialised. A week after it was
finished he ran into Mick Saunders in
town. “Gripes, you’re a lucky cow,
gettin’ your material like y’ did, Dan,”
Saunders informed him, “I’ve been
chasin’ some f’r ages.” “Aw, I ain’t that
lucky.” “ ’Course y’ are,” snorted the
old bloke “Y’ even got a carpenter. An’
when I come past the other day I seen
y’r place was finished. Y’re lucky,
awright.” “Aw, I dunno.” “No?
Trouble is, y’ dunno when y’re well orf,”
sniffed Saunders. “Always lookin’ f’r
somethin’ t’ complain about. Y’ve got
y’r old hut still there, too. Didn’t go in
the wind last night, did she?” “No, she’s
jake,” replied Dan wearily, “Never
blew down or nothin’. It was me new
house done that.”
♦ * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Twenty-one of the
25 shark- and crayfish-vessels working
out of Corner Inlet ports (Vic.) are now
fitted with two-way radio-sets, and they
are the first vessels so equipped in Tas-
manian or Victorian waters. A set for
each craft costs around £3O installed, and
they are sufficient for the shore station
VH3BS at Port Albert to work any vessel
through Bass Strait to Tassie. The
routine at present covers three half-hour
day periods when base contacts all boats
away from port, and maintains an all-day
watch. Besides its emergency purpose,
by means of the radio skippers now
arrange transport and place orders prior
to arrival and speak to each other at sea
regarding weather conditions. Soon they
will be supplied with D/F fixes when
required. Recently the lighthouse-keepers
at Wilson’s Promontory rang Port Albert
to say a child was very ill at lonely,
rugged Deal Island light, 44 miles away
to the south-east. After five hours call-
ing, the cutter Advance was located at
the Hogan Group, to the eastward of
The Prom., and she in turn contacted the
Valetta, then off Flinders Island, Bass
Strait, on her way home. An hour later
Valetta radioed base to say she had the
child on board bound for Welshpool,
where an ambulance and doctor were
waiting. Twenty-five years ago when I
first visited Deal Island at Christmas the
lightkeepers learned from me the placed
horses in the Melbourne Cup.
“Chuck”; For 30-odd years Charlie
had walked the half-mile or more along
the flat to work and home again at lunch-
time, and for nearly as long he had talked
about getting himself a bike. Then he
spotted one in the store window. He
inquired the price, gave a pretty good
imitation of a freshly-landed fish, and
went home to think it over. For the next
week the newspaper advertisements
seemed levelled especially at him, and the
challenge of his favorite radio comedian
brought nothing but unrest. He bought
the bike. It was surprising the number
of places he found to visit after that, the
only cloud that blacked out his glee be-
ing a sudden remembrance of the pur-
chase price. “Twenty quid, Bill,” he
informed a crony weightily. “Just
imagine; twenty quid! Gripes, a man
c’d walk a long way f’r twenty quid.”
“Yair, but it ain’t only y’r boot-leather,
it’s the time y’U save,” Bill cheered him.
“Y’ll get the value out of it, Chari.; don’t
you worry.” “But, that’s just it,” Charlie
parried. “Will I? Y’ see, I asked the
store bloke about it, an’ he reckons these
machines’ll last a lifetime. A ordinary
blokeV lifetime, that is. Won’t wear out
or nothin’, an’ the value’s in ’em, he says.
Well, that’s awright, but it’s, so late now
I dunno if it’s worth it. Gripes, a man
should ’a’ bought the thing thirty year
ago.”
**- * *
“Naturala”:' My experience of the
bluetongue lizard doesn’t square with
“G’snatcher’s” contention (B. 13/4/’49)
that the W.A. variety looks cap-
able of amputating a finger. Being
one of those kind of blokes, I have given
bluey the opportunity by putting a finger
between his jaws, but all he did was to
give a bit of a squeeze. Nor have I ever
found the sleepy chap raiding nests for
eggs. In fact, the only time I have ever
caught him dining has been while the
dew was still on the grass; then he was
waddling around nipping off tender
shoots,'including a number of small blue
“Great idea! Have you got any more of them ?”
flowers which grow close to the ground,
Apparently nature has solved bluey’s
problem by making him and her so slow
of movement that only the bare mini-
mum of vitamins is required.
“Stoker”; First cousin to the blue-
tongue, the prickly-tailed lizard of W.A.’s
central tablelands, is also blue-tongued
and sleepy, and has a tail adorned with
a brush of spikes like a hedgehog. Firing
boilers on a wild-cat show along the
Boulder Belt, we used to have unloaded
on us by a wood-contractor tons of black-
oak—the desert-oak of Centre romancers.
This was easily the most incombustible
fuel in Australia, being fairly solid when
young, but full of holes and roaks when
aged. And most of it was aged. These
roaks were the habitations of numerous
spiky-tails. We used to hate tossing them
into the firebox, which inevitably hap-
pened unless one went to the trouble of
pulling them out. And spiky-tail has a
good defence against being pulled out.
Things got that way, what with the steam
going down while I wrestled at the rescue
of stubborn spiky-tails, that finally I
hired an abo. family, with a payment of
tea and sugar and their ownership of the
“catch,” to extract the lizards from the
logs before I came to handle them. This
the gin and her 14-year-old daughter did
deftly by means of a length of fencing-
wire, the head of the house sitting by and
giving advice. While the black-oak kept
coming in that family grew visibly fatter.
*** * *
“Anon”: Laments about Americanis-
ing our bush would find support from a
Queensland grazier. Questioning the new
jackeroo on the day’s riding, he asked the
lad how far he had ridden, and was told:
“To the place where there’s a shack, a
corral, and a lynching-post.”
**l * *
“L.G.8.”: Saw a three-inch blackfish
cause the uncomfortable death of a cor-
morant on Lake Macquarie (N.S.W.).
The shag made his catch under water,
surfaced, and had started to swallow the
fish head-first when a seagull which had
been watching proceedings with interest
swooped. The short and lively tug-of-
war ended with the shag in unwilling and
indisputable possession of the prize. The
seagull’s backward drag had run the fish’s
fins right through the sides of the shag’s
mouth, there to stay.
* * * *
“W.P.T,”: Attempts to re-establish
our whaling industry bring to mind that
in old St. Luke’s cemetery, Liverpool
(N.S.W.), is a tombstone bearing an
almost illegible inscription which claims
that Captain Ebor Bunker was the first
man to attempt to establish the whaling
industry in Australia, Bunker set out
a-whaling soon after his arrival in
Australia in 1791, and made some
small catches. Seven years later
he persuaded a whaling firm to fit out
the Albion for him. This venture was
a great success, and in 1801 the vessel
took to England 155 tons of : whale-oil.
Bunker died in 1836,
* * * *
“N.H.H.”: Two boundary-riding com-
panions—Greasy, a half-bred kelpie, and
Tige, a blue cattledog—shared an un-
usually-intense aversion to fire. A
discarded cigarette-butt or a carelessly-
dropped lighted match would be instantly
extinguished under a frantic paw, and an
unattended open stove provoked im-
mediate barking and a whining rebuke
whose urgency increased until the stove-
door was closed. At my command'
Greasy and Tige would scatter my mid-
day campfire, and never once, except for
a few singed hairs, did they suffer burns.
Greasy was the commander in these fire-
fighting forays and Tige a willing
subaltern, but after Tige’s death from
snakebite some twelve months ago Greasy
lost interest in firefighting, and wilfully
balked at any order involving the dous-
ing of even a match. However, his
appreciation of fire danger still remains,
and though he refuses to take active part
against them, his frantic alarms never
fail to warn of unauthorised fires.
FLOWERING EUCALYPT.
Seared and unvarnished
The plane branches swing,
Summer has tarnished
The tinsel of spring;
Flaying the brittle,
And spoiling the bright,
Chasing the little
Winged seeds out of sight.
But, among shouldering
Silvers and greys,
The redgum is smouldering,
Ready to blaze.
Splendid and forthright,
The conquering one,
Here is his birthright,
The lodestar, the sun.
Careless of cruel
Winds avid to scorch,
The beautiful fuel
But waits for the torch.
Then, bright in that alien
Tame company
Burns the Australian
Bonfire tree.
Up runs the scarlet —
The mad flowering,
No sober varlet
Is he, but a king.
Colors flung higher
His crowning proclaim
With bugles of fire,
And trumpets of flame.
Honey-flies gather
On every crest;
Even still weather
Will not let them rest,
But, trembling and stirring
Without any breeze.
They are rocked by the purring
Of passionate bees.
While every blue
Summer day that goes by
Crowns him anew
In the courts of the sky.
VICTORIA,
K. DAKZIEL.


Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jAGKSOIy
OSUIJJVA*
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
■jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, , STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
( “NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“protecta” self-registering tills
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
your favourite pipe
tobacco from the
six balanced blends of
FOUR SQUARE
Carefully blended from fully
matured vintage leaf, these famous
tobaccos come to you in vacuum- *
sealed tins to ensure factory
freshness.
Exactly as
sold in
Great
% Britain
m
PS
«>
ge'neo
SdUA
THIS'
Vg^
Also
oaKfi
sw»
pipe
live
nUIP®
live
itoiw
Ge
lot
evil
ieadS
-<kooo
iotro
Cvll
wine
frtisaae
m
*
>2
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
“Old-timer”: The agent was showing
Mac over the property and telling him
what a good thing it was. “It’d just suit
you,” he said. “Eight hundred acres, a
quarter of it flats and cleared an’ them
hills along the back carry good grass
pretty well all the year round. Then
there’s the crick ; see it down there, good
water in that crick. The bloke took eight
bags off it last year, an’ you know it
wasn’t a real good year, an’ he run 600
ewes an’ got about six pound o’ wool a
head from ’em an’ 380 lambs. That’ll
just show y’. Yair, he’s got eight quid
an acre on it, an’ it’s a snap.” Mac
prodded the ground with his boot-toe
and examined the grass closely. He
raised his head and bent a long look
at a few washed-out-looking Merino
wethers hanging round the windmill.
“Eight quid is a lot for a joint like this,”
he muttered. “Aw, y’ haven’t seen all
of it,” the agent enthused. “See them
apple-boxes up there, along that slope?
You got no idea how she looks in the
mornin’, with the sun across the flats,
an’ that ridge o’ pine an’ box breaks the
wind. There was a artist bloke up here
last year paintin’ pictures an’ he said it
reminded him o’ Gruner.” “Gruner?”
Mac said, “Where’s that?” “I dunno.
but it sounded like one o’ them well-
known places, an’ this place reminded
him of it.” Mac brooded. “She’s worth
six-ten,” he said, after a while. “Not a
bean more. An’ I’m buyin’ it for me
son; he don’t give a rap about how she
looks in, the mornin’ or whether she’s
like this Gruner place. He won’t have
no time t’ look at the sunshine.” In the
end they made it £7 2s. 6d. They tell
everybody about its resemblance to a
place called Gruner, but nobody seems to
know where that is.
* * * *
“C. Coral”: The centenary-issue stamp
in connection with the Kennedy Expedi-
tion recalls that one of the native grasses
of Queensland is named after Galmarra,
the aboriginal more commonly known as
“Of course you’d be more interested in rabbits."
Jacky Jacky, who brought help to the
two survivors and held Kennedy in his
arms when he died. Jacky Jacky was
presented with an address, a brass plate,
and 50 sovereigns; and his name is com-
memorated in a creek and a mountain
range in Queensland. He also figures in
the bas-relief on the Kennedy monument
in St. James’ Church, Sydney, where he
is shown supporting Kennedy while armed
blacks stand in the distance. Men of
the Forces who were on duty up Cape
York way remember the military post at
Jacky Jacky, towards the top of the
point, a few miles from Cowal Creek
mission station. Incidentally, the abo-
riginal who was instrumental in preserv-
ing the outfit from utter oblivion shot
the first known cassowary on the head
of the Lockhardt River. The bodies of
two of the ill-fated expedition were in-
terred on Albany Island on May 13, 1849,
after being collected by the brig Freak
(which a few years later was wrecked in
the vicinity); but Kennedy’s grave has
never been located, although Jacky
Jacky found some of the concealed
charts and papers.
* * * *
“E.”; In town soon after he had started
on a place of his own Herb met old Bill
Tracey, who agreed to sell him a decent
hack. “That’ll be right then,” Bill
assured him. “Now, it’s a pretty long
trip out to my strip o’ country, so if I
bring the nag in this far about next
Wednesday week, will you come in here
an’ collect him?” • Herb agreed. The
following Wednesday week he again made
the trip into town. There was no sign of
old Bill. Herb waited around till dark,
then booked in at the pub for the night.
Thursday he spent dozing on the ver-
andah, counting cockatoos in the maize
paddock opposite, and talking to a stray
dog. Friday he gave a repeat perform-
ance. Saturday he was contemplating
the return journey home when Bill rode
serenely in, leading the spare nag. “What
happened?” Herb greeted himu “Hap-
pened? X dunno,’*’ answered Bill. “How
d’ y’ mean, ‘happened’?” “Well, you said
Wednesday,” Herb scowled. “Don’t you
know you’re three days late?” “Late?”
Bill’s puzzled countenance gave way again
in pleasant unconcern. “I said about
Wednesday,” he corrected. “Gripes, me
lad,” he added, “y’ll never do no good
on the land if y’re goin’ to be so blasted
impatient as all that!”
* sH * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I got a job in a travel-
ing waxworks once,” Mat said. “Sort
o’ handy-man, I was. We got t’ a place
called Koroit, down in Victoria, an’ the
boss finds a empty house with about
seven rooms in it an’ sets the show up in
it. Yair, we had the Kellys an’ the Gov-
ernors an’ Deemin’ an’ the Sleepin’
Beauty an’ Kaiser Bill an’ a lot of other
blokes an’ wimmen. The boss opens her
up every mornin’ about nine, an’ it’s my
job t’ go round early an’ do a bit o’
sweepin’ an’ dustin’. One night I get in
a Murrum. pool an’ get back pretty late,
just on daylight in fact, so I reckon I’ll
do me dustin’ before I turn in, I start in
the room that’s got Henry VIII an’ Anne
Boleyn, an’ when I open the door the
figure of Anne is just inside where some-
one had left it after the night show. So
I grabs it t’ put it back, but it giggles
an’ squirms an’ I nilly threw a sixer. It
turns out she’s a girl from the shop next
door the boss had paid t’ do the cleanin’
because he thought I must ’a’ got on the
booze or somethin’. She laughs like
anythin’, an’ 1 get out of it quick as I
can. Yair, next day 1 chucked it an’
went down the Otways on a road job."
“Why?” I asked, knowing him. “Did she
start bangin’ round y’?” “Well, I never
bin too sure,” he said thoughtfully, “But
the next night, after the show, I go round
straightenin’ up, an’ she rushes out o’
Jimmy Governor’s room fair into me
paws an’ hangs on to me an’ says she’s
frightened.” “Well,” I said, “she might
ha’ bin,” “Maybe,” said Mat. “Only
she ain’t screamin’ an’ she was all dressed
up like a sore thumb. So I pulled out.”
* * -j*
"Fair B,”; Perhaps skate digest oysters
the way black bream do with small shell-
fish and mussels (B. ,23/2/’49), by tear-
ing the bivalves off rocks and piles with
the two large front teeth, and crushing
them with Lae molars which line both
top and bottom jaws in neat rows. The
front crushers are small, enlarging to-
ward the throat; cracking the shellfish
into small pieces the lot is swallowed.
All edible parts are then easily digested
and the remaining shells eliminated.
Newly-landed black bream will often
grind the molars.
« * * *
“Kelms”: Glad someone noticed (B.
13/4/’49) that my weather forecast for
last winter was accurate. I’ve had more
than my share of arguments anent pro-
phecies based on the absence or profusion
of gum-blossom, and I’ve been ridiculed
for placing so much reliance on the teach-
ings of the elderly native who instructed
me in the subject. Contrary to popular
belief, the average native isn’t (or wasn’t)
an infallible bushman. He drifted his
life away in much the same way as his
city counterpart does today. Amongst
a hundred clerks you’d expect to find an
odd businessman or two, and in much
the same proportion you’d find good
bushmen amongst natives. Those bush-
men were intelligent, and no intelligent
man, of whatever race, creed or color,
could spend a lifetime in the Australian
bush without learning its secrets. 1 don’t
know why a sparsity of gum-blossom
precedes a dry winter; nor do I know
whether the poor flowering of imported
trees —apricots, peaches and plums—which
occurred in W.A. last spring was an in-
dication of the abnormally dry summer
which followed. But, as “Uncle Alfy”
says, there’s a profusion of blossoms this
year—and the winter has commenced with
some of the heaviest April rains on
record.
THE DRAYS.
In a grass-grown yard in a drab back street
Where seldom a stranger strays,
’Midst a welter of useless cast-off junk
Is a legion of one-horse drays.
They were built ere the days of speed arrived,
And builders were craftsmen then,
But their day is past and they wait the end,
Like weary and worn-out men.
There are big wood drays, and small stone drays,
In fancy, I hear the sound—
Clockety clock, rattle and creak,
As the wheels went slowly round.
Trade-painted drays, and home-painted drays;
Dull road-cart red, or a green,
And at the sides are fading scrolls
Where the owners’ names have been.
The woodman’s dray has twin leather loops
Where the driver rested his axe,
But they’re perished and hard as hoof or horn
And are drawing away the tacks.
The naves of the roadman’s wheels are bound
With a stiffened canvas band
To halt the grit, and the wear and tear
Of the ever-dribbling sand.
The hooks of the tugs are worn and thin,
They tell of heavy loads
And the sturdy strength of the patient horse (
That plodded the rough bush-roads.
There’s a tattered bag on the axle-bed
Where dust-grimed cobwebs cling
And at the back is a crooked hook
Where the nosebag used to swing.
At the end of the row is a farmer’s cart
Washed clean by the winter’s rain;
Its floor is wide and its sides are high
And spread like those of a wain.
Beneath is a tussock of withered stalks —
Where the boards have broken away—
That have grown from the hidden grain it bore
Since the days when it brought the hay.
A grim old-timer is traced with cracks
That gape when the hot sun shines;
Tis many a year since those worn wheels turned
As they carried props to the mines.
One tyre has fallen and lies beside,
And the old wheel feels the loss,
For the spokes and rim lean in and out
Like parts of a broken cross.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME


Genuine REISER pattern
SECATEURS
TOLEDO alloy steel cutting blade, and steel lining
on lower jaw. Wholly plated and rustless.
Price 32 />- each, post free.
TOLEDO STEEL COMPANY,
7 Rickard Avenue, Mosman.
P.O. Box 15, Mosman, N.S.W.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Go. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
Ifl Help Solve Your Hooey Worries /^tO
ẅ
A personal, confidential service
is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed*
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills* come la
and talk it over*
RURAL BANK
Head Office t Martin Place, Sydney.
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Assur-
Added to ance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
£/£/£* £/ &
1945.. 194,605 90,750 29,960 73,895 1,384,318
To staff fund, £3OOO .. .. 1,381,318
1946.. 208,757 86,926 36,301 85,530 1,466,848
1947.. 85,142 36,501 104,269 1,571,117
Bonus reserve, £5OOO .. .. 1,576,117
' From General Dept., £lOOO .. 1,577,117
1948.-242,962 104,533 39,314 99,115 1,676,232
*lncludes divs. to shareholders, 1945, £2118;
1946, £2289 ; 1947, £2482; 1948, £2744.
Inddstriad^Department.
Assur-
Added to ance
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.
£,£,£,£, £
1945.. 347,484 124,708 97,987 124,789 1,477,489
To staff fund, £7500 . . . . 1,484,989
1946.. 362,139 144,706 106,894 110,539 1,595,528
1947.. 376,364 152,502 108,113 115,748 1,711,276
Bonus reserve, etc., £6543 .. .. 1,717,819
1948.. 392,538 168,407 \107,786 116,345 1,834,164
From General Dept., £3OOO .. 1,837,164
* Includes divs. to shareholders, 1945, £2917;
1946, £2711; 1947, £2500; 1948, £lB2O.
The 53-year-old Metropolitan, which
pays regular bonuses to policyholders and
dividends to shareholders, continues to
develop along sound lines. Certainly
there was a drop of £52,471 in the amount
of new life business (£1,247,774) put on
the books last year, but too much im-
portance need not be attached to that—
£554,035 (up £29,572) was in the O.D. and
£693,739 (down £82,043) in the 1.D., and
group contracts accounted for only a
small amount of the O.D. business.
The proportion of ordinary to total new
business stepped up from 34.1 p.c. in
1939 to 40.3 p.c. in 1947 and to 44.4 p.c.
last year. This is a pleasing trend, be-
cause policyholders get more benefit from
ordinary than industrial contracts. The
writing of industrial contracts of less than
25 years’ duration has been discontinued
by all the big life offices, owing to the
drop in interest rates and rise in costs.
On the ordinary with-profits contracts
the co. has to earn £9 for policyholders
before shareholders are entitled to a
pound.
In the two fife sections combined the
year’s total income was £635,500 (up
£33,223), of which £507,008 (up £21,904)
was premiums and £128,492 (up £11,319)
interest, rents, etc. Claims were well
within actuarial expectation. Excluding
divs. to shareholders, contributions to
the staff fund and taxes, exes, in the
O.D. took 19.6 p.c. of net premiums as
against 18.1 p.c. in the previous term,
the rise being due to the larger amount
of new business written. On the same
basis the I.D. ratio of exes, to net pre-
miums was 31.6 p.c. as against 33.5 p.c.
Including £4OOO transferred from the
general department, £219,460 was added
to the assurance funds, raising them to
£3,513,396—£1,837,164 ordinary and
£1,676,232 industrial. That includes re-
serves for bonuses, etc., of £5OOO in the
O.D. and £6019 in /the I.D. In addition
there is a general reserve of £lO,OOO,
which also belongs to policyholders.
Net interest earned on mean funds
during the year was £3 15s. sd. p.c. (down
Is. 5d.). The actuary calculates the co.’s
policy liabilities on a 2\ p.c. basis in
the O.D. and 2\ p.c. basis in the I.D.
The margin between these assumed and
actual rates of interest is wide enough
to ensure maintenance of current rates of
bonuses to policyholders—in the O.D.
they range from 16s. p.c, on contracts
less than five years in force to 245, p.c.
on those 15 years old or more.
In the general or shareholders’ section,
which handles the underwriting business
of the subsidiary, Metropolitan Accident
Fire and General Co., income was
£43,180, of which exes., etc., took £34,169.
Of the £9Oll that remained £3OOO was
transferred to the 1.D., £lOOO to the O.D.
and £5Oll was added to reserves, raising
them to £83,486, which includes £2755
earmarked for unexpired risks. The div.
to shareholders was raised from 10 p.c.
to 10.6 p.c., which called for £5343, of
which £2744 came from the 0.D., £lB2O
from the I.D. and £779 from the general
section.
Assets are a satisfactory lot, and well
worth their book-value;
1947. p.c. 1948. p.c.
Freehold, etc. ..£247,405 7.1 £247,066 6.6
Govt, securities . . 2,466,286 70.7 2,637,019 70.8
Shareholdings, etc. 411,608 11.8 496,660 13.3
Mortgages.. .. 171,366 4.9 137,729 3.7
Loans on policies.. 120,470 3.5 125,987 3.4
Book debts .. 61,346 1.7 65,340 1.8
Cash ~ . . 9,705 0.3 12,719 0.4
£3,488,186 £3,722,520
Government securities now account for
70.8 p.c. and shareholdings, etc., for 13.3
p.c, of total assets as against 75.4 p.c. and
4.8 p.c. respectively two years ago. This
spread of life funds into industry, which
is general at the moment, is another con-
sequence of the Government’s cheap-
money policy. The amount invested in
shares in public cos. at Dec. 31 last was
£308,929 (up £54,839) ordinary and
£93,582 (up £30,197) preference.
Wilcox, Mofflin, Ltd, (Sydney)
, To Ke-
Junc, Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1937.. 45,385 9.1 p.c. = 20,000 25,385 95,077
Loss.
1938.. 91,391 Nil 3,686
Profit.
1939.. 4,120 Nil 4,120 7,806
1940.. 33,552 13.6 p.c. = 80,000 3,553 11,358
1941.. 45,510 13.6 „ „ 30,000 15,510 26,868
1942.. 28,434 9.1 „ „ 20,000 8,434 35,302
1943.. 30,258 9.1 „ „ 20,000 10,258 45,560
1944.. 30,442 9.1 „ „ 20,000 10,442 56,002
1945.. 36,960 11.3 „ „ 25,852 11,108 67,110
1946.. 34,465 9.1 „ „ 21,363 13,102 80,212
1947.. 52,994 13.6 „ ~ 37,083 15,911 96,123
1948.. 71,355 13.6 „ „ 42,812 28,543 124,666
Turnover increased by £l| million last
term, reaching a record £6} million,
thanks to high prices for wool, hides,
sheepskins, etc., and expansion of the
co.’s merchandise, fellmongering, wool-
scouring and tanning activities. Prices
in the American market for rabbitskins
dropped. After allowing £15,635 (up
£4861) for depreciation and an unspeci-
fied amount for taxation, amortisation of
leases and bad debts, the profit was
£71,355 (up £18,361), best since 1923. It
was 20.4 p.c. on average capital as against
19.4, 14.6, 15.1, 13.8, 13.7 and 12.9 p.c.
back to 1942. The div. was held at 13.6
p.c., making the average 11.3 p.c. over the
last nine years.
The scrip used to be one of the most
speculative stocks in the market. The
co. bought wool, hides, furred-skins, etc.,
in all Australian States, largely on its
own account, and sold them overseas.
Among other things that meant heavy
stocks, and the time factor rendered
earnings very vulnerable to price fluctu-
ations. Good profits were gathered on
rising markets, but when a burst of
liquidation or other causes reversed the
price trend it was a different story, as
the losses in 1921 (£31,367), 1925
(£61,948), 1929 and two following years
(total £196,390) and 1938 (£91,391) show.
Divs, averaged 3.1 p.c. for the 11 years
to 1939 —seven of them were dry ones—
and 8,1 p.c. for the eight years before
that. The books were cleared of in-
tangibles, including £130,000 of goodwill,
by lopping 9s. a share (£180,000) off capi-
tal in 1930.
Government bulk-buying at fixed prices
kept earnings at satisfactory levels during
the war, and since the return of an open
market for wool, etc., in mid-1946 a
strong demand at rising prices has been
experienced for most lines handled. Last
term a factory to make stock foods and
medicines was put up at Botany (N.S.W.),
near the tannery, to which additions were
made, and a new store, with 60,000 square
feet of floor space, is going up in Mel-
bourne. Another pleasing feature is title
board’s assurance that the co.’s exports
are all sold for sterling, and that com-
mitments in this respect are covered by
forward purchase of exchange, thus re-
ducing the risk arising from fluctuations
in exchange rates.
To help finance expanding activities,
100,000 new 11s. shares were issued at
par in Sept., 1947. The new capital
(£55,000), an extra £72,128 from the bank
and £127,645 from sundry creditors, etc.,
went mostly into stocks (up £190,844),
which now dominate the financial pic-
ture :
1942. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £220,000 £235,000 £275,000 £330,000
Overdraft .. 217,430 304,042 649,479 721,607
Creditors* .. 108,993 170,189 198,227 325,872
Freehold, etc. 151,491 156,174 173,999 197,513
Plant, etc. .. 35,617 59,040 70,143 89,775
Stocks . . 303,592 478;849 924,670 1,115,514
Book debts . . 82,694 88,374 57,952 107,303
Cash . . .. 1,384 1,472 2,051 2,650
Shares other cos. 26,898 26,897 27,097 32,199
* Includes provision for taxation.
Lack of shipping and labor were partly
responsible for last year’s increase in
stocks, composition of which and the
amount held on account of clients and
on the co.’s own account are not ascer-
tainable from the published figures. The
year’s net outlay on fixed assets was
£43,149, and the improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£210,187) was
£46,123.
To provide for further expansion and
help reduce the debt, 150,000 new 11s.
ords. were issued in December last at a
stiff premium (fixed by capital-control
authorities) of ss. 6d. each. When all
the money on that lot is in paid capital
will be £412,500, on which a 13.6 p.c.
div. will call for £15,000-odd less than
was netted last term. And reserves will
benefit by £41,250. Prospects of another
good showing at next balance are en-
couraging. Greatest danger lies in the
furred-skin section, where prices con-
tinue to fluctuate, with a downward trend.
The recent easing of prices in the wool
market is a healthy development. The
co.’s scouring, fellmongering, tanning and
merchandising, etc., activities should help
to stiffen earnings.
Mindful of the risks, the market prices
the scrip at 16s. 6d. as against 21s. a
year ago. The return at the lower figure
is 9 p.c. on a 13.6 p.c. div. basis, or
5 p.c. on a7f p.c. distribution. Includ-
ing the new issue, net tangible cover is
15s. sd. a share.
Queensland National Pastoral Co.
, Dividends— —^
Pref. Writ-
Dec., Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinary, ten off. Deficit.
£> £/ £ £ £
1940.. 56,201 25,000 Nil 10,595 30,966
1941.. 38,751 25,000 Nil 10,540 27,755
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1942.. 31,496 15,000 4500 10,527 26,286
1943.. 33,577 15,000 4500 10,063 22,272
1944.. 48,702 15,000 4500 10,003 3,073
Reserves.
1945.. 41,676 15,000 4500 9,872 9,231
1946.. 52,582 15,000 4500 18,978 '23,335
1947.. 54,165 15,000 4500 17,869 40,131
1948.. 50,418 15,000 4500 16,802 54,247
The co.’s experience reflects the risks of
the business —mainly seasons, prices and
costs —and calls for more generous treat-
ment from the Government than the co.
has received to date. This call is em-
phasised by the growing importance of
beef in the list of Australia’s exports,
following recent developments in the
Argentine and elsewhere.
The co.’s big leasehold properties,
aggregating 9157 square miles, are down
the Cooper in far-west Queensland and
over the border in the Territory—two
largest are Barclay Downs (Q.), 3410
square miles, and Lake Nash (N.T.), 3356
square miles. It also owns three coastal
freeholds, totalling 45,917 acres, in the
Gladstone, Nanango and Kilcoy districts.
Last term a five-year lease 0f‘6520 acres
adjoining Yabba (Kilcoy) was secured at
an annual rental of £lO2. A couple of
small western leases ran out, but the co.
is still in possession under occupational
lease. At Lake Nash the co. has applied
for lease of an additional 1344 square
miles, and has agreed to surrender 1198
square miles of inferior country because
of the new restriction on total holdings
in the Territory.
Between wars an unholy combination
of lost markets, drought, falling prices and
rising costs resulted in heavy trading and
capital losses and an accumulation of
debt. The p. and 1. debit was rubbed out
in 1932 by slashing 17s. 6d. off each
pound ord. share. Six years later the
prefs. agreed to forgo accumulated divs.
(£192,500) and reduce the rate from 7 p.c.
to 6 p.c. They have received their full
requirements since then, and, for the first
time since 1920, the ords. came into the
picture with 6 p.c. for each of the last
seven years. Meanwhile, the debt was
worked down and a substantial wad of
cash and Government securities accumu-
lated, leaving the co. in a stronger finan-
cial position than ever.
Last year was a dry one on all the
runs, with drought in the west, owing to
failure of the monsoonal rains—96sB
sheep and 5249 cattle were written off on
account of mortality. Still, more calves
were branded, but the lambing was poor.
High prices for wool and livestock savec
the day. After - allowing something fo
taxation and £1067 less for depreciatio
—included with profits and then show
as written off in the table —£36,616 (dow
£2680) was available for shareholder
It covered the pref. div, and 24.8 p.c. o
ord. capital, compared with 28.3, 24.
22.4, 31.6, 11.3 and 7.9 p.c. back to 1942
The £14,116 left after payment of div
lifted reserves to £54,247 —12 years ag
there was a deficit of £70,077 on capita
account. It has been a creditable per
formance.
The holding of cash, etc. —the etceter
is £120,000 of Commonwealth bonds
was further strengthened by £30,040:
1939. 1946. 1947. 1948
Paid capital . . £325,000 £325,000 £325,000 £325,00
Creditors* . . 142,501 122,849 136,663 150,51
Freeholds . . 28,083 27,903 27,903 27,90
Leaseholds . . 131,262 121,138 111,088 106,87
Plant . . 60,743 57,479 54,613 50,87
Livestock .. 189,803 162,487 ‘158,051 160,67
Wool.. .. 6,552 32,208 2,833 3,81
Stores . . 6,088 11,965 11,598 13,86
Debtors . . 3,315 15,702 15,494 15,50
Cash, etc. . . 81 61,800 139,715 169,75
* Includes provision for contingencies and
taxation.
The year’s improvement in the more-or
less liquid surplus (£213,099) \yas £22,071
Since the close of accounts best rains
within living memory have fallen all over
Queensland and the Territory, and the
Government’s new 15-year meat con-
tract with Britain should mean much to
the co. so far as demand and prices are
concerned. Seasons and costs promise to
be the main factors that will determine
the level of earnings.
The pound prefs. at 235. 6d. yield 5.1
p.c. At 3s. lOd. (3s. a year ago) the 2s.
6d. ords. return 3.9 p.c. on a 6 ike. div.
basis, with prospects. Net tangible cover
is 30s. 4d. prefs. and 4s. 3id. ords.
Exec., Trustee and Agency Co. (S.A.)
To Re- Re-
Scpt., Profit. < ——Dividends serves, serves.
-OH 121,»
1942.. 10,545 10 p.c. = 10,000]
To tax provision, £3993 ..1 117,598
Staff fund, £650 .. ..J
““W1& i°s0 C ' = .. 10,0 “( 022 117,820
1944.. 10,763 10 p.c. = 10,000 ] 117Qq o
Staff fund, £650 .. ..} lld 117,y "
1945.. 11,646 10 p.c. = 10,000 ) OQR iioqoq
Staff fund, £650 j yyb ils,y “ y
““staff'SS ST-. ***!?} •« >“■“«
1948.. 13,992 10 p.c. = 10,000 ) 10Q<) n o,;
Staff fund, £2OOO .. .. f 1992 123,035
The last is the best showing of this 67-
year-old Adelaide trustee co. since 1939.
During this period there had been no
falter in expansion of the business, but
net earnings were compressed by a pro-
portionately greater growth in exes, than
in gross earnings. While corpus and
other commission charges, anchored by
legislation, have remained moderate and
unchanged since the closing decades of
last century, costs have risen sharply
owing to war and post-war inflation,
taxation and a maze of socialistic legisla-
tion that has greatly increased work con-
nected with the administration of estates.
At the same time financial and other
controls have kept returns from invest-
ment of the co.’s own funds at moderate
levels.
Since the business continues to expand,
and can be expected to keep on doing
so, shareholders’ prospects depend largely
upon how soon the steep costs gradient
flattens out, and hopes are that it might
begin to do so before long, provided
Government and the unions don’t do any-
thing too foolish. When the books


m
V'P
Ot* 11
lIP
§m
os
ordon's
Stands Supk&mst;
S 3
By Appointment
Cin Distiller*
A lo H.M. King George VI
(TonaucrtY. Cordon & Co Ltd
<Pnccrr?tfi<iSioc&e\
w
Colin Lawson, M. 8., Oh.M.
(Chairman),
253 Concord Road, Concord West,
New South Wales,
Medical Practitioner, Barrister-at-
Law (not in practice).
Victor Henry Docker,
Union Hotel, Pacific Highway,
Crow’s Nest, New South Wales,
Hotel Proprietor.
Thomas William Forrest, J.P.,
8 Mulwarrie Avenue, Eandwick,
New South Wales,
Hotelkeeper.
Edward George Carroll, M. 8.,
Ch.M.,
54 Osborne Road, Lane Cove,
New South Wales,
Medical Practitioner.
AUDITORS:
Timmins and Atwill,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
9 Bligh Street, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
David D. Willis, A.1.C.A.,
Public Accountant,
82 Collins Street, HOBART,
TASMANIA.
Garrott & Garrott,
Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
21 Paterson Street, LAUNCESTON,
TASMANIA.
BANKERS:
Bank of Australasia, Burwood,
New South Wales.
Bank of New South Wales,
228 Pitt St., Sydney, N.S.W.
Walter Thomas Gortley, A.A.A.,
A.P.C.A.,
59 Lauderdale Avenue, Manly,
New South Wales,
Public Accountant.
Joseph Vemon Gerrard Roberts,
F.1.1.A. (Aust.),
182 Parramatta Road, Ashfield,
New South Wales,
Public Accountant.
Hercules Frederick Mclnemey,
17 Highbury Road, Croydon,
New South Wales,
Builder and Contractor.
Member Local Board, Tasmania
(Under Article 120).
John Michael Dalton Donnellan,
Corner Cromwell and Napoleon
Streets, Hobart, Tasmania.
SOLICITORS:
Parish, Patience & Mclntyre,
Dalton House, 115 Pitt Street,
SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Norman Miller & Donaldson,
100 Queen Street,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA.
Bruce Piggott & Jennings,
Derwent and Tamar Buildings,
23 Murray Street,
HOBART, TASMANIA.
SECRETARY AND REGIS-
TERED OFFICE, N.S.W.
J. V. G. Roberts, F.1.1.A. (Aust.),
17 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
New South Wales.
TERMS OF THE ISSUE
Copies of the full prospectus and forms of application for Shares may
be obtained from the registered offices of the Company as under;
(A) New South Wales: 17 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
(B) Victoria; Mr. H. C. Broderick, Chartered Accountant (AustO,
340 Collins Street, Melbourne.
(C) Tasmania;
(1) Springs Hotel, Mt. Wellington, Hobart.
(2) Mr. D. D. Willis, A.1.C.A., 82 Collins Street, Hobart.
(3) Garrott & Garrott, Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
21 Paterson Street, Launceston.
Five shillings per Share is payable on application, and 5/- per Snare
on allotment, and balance in calls of 5/- per Share as and when required.
Applications for Shares will be received only on one of the terms ot
application referred to and endorsed upon a printed copy of the Prospectus.
Application forms may be lodged through any member of_a recognised
Stock Exchange. The minimum subscription on which the Directors may
proceed to allotment is 50,000 Shares, as set out in the full Prospectus.
The requirements of Ejection 137 of the Companies Act, 1936,. ev l
South Wales, have not been fully complied with in tins Abridged
Prospectus which is published for Public Information only.
STOCK EXCHANGE QUOTATION
Application will be made as soon as practicable after allotment tor
official quotation on the Stock Exchange of Sydney, Melbourne, Hobart
and Launceston.
BROKERAGE
In accordance with the terms of Capital Issues consent a brokerage
fee of 9d. per Share will be paid on any Shares allotted in respect ot
applications lodged by and bearing the stamp of members of recognised
Stock Exchanges in Australia.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
V
BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
skin and com-
plexion ! UseCuticnra
Soap regularly its
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio —Cuticnra Soap. Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
ŵ
THAT
*sr
A
the
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 ' Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BP2-49
115 Years
Serving
Small
Customers
and Big
ẁ
Through all the changes in
the Nation's economic pattern
this Bunk has served its custo-
, mers with the wide and cumu-
lative experience it has gathered.
To tens of thousands of
competent people, engaged in
small and large enterprises, it
has assured—and assures to-day
—a complete banking service for
their constructive purposes.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
closed the co. had £123,035 of
reserves to support and assist its
£lOO,OOO of paid capital, so the
two combined have to turn in
only 4.3 p.c. to cover 10 p.c. on
capital alone. Last year’s profit
was 6.2 p.c. on shareholders’
funds, which suggests that the
big volume of trustee business
is being handled very cheaply
these days. The co.’s own assets
consist of freehold, etc., ,£96,666,
Government securities £102,873,
mortgages £30,879, and cash
and book debts £7753. There
was £1705 coming to sundry
creditors and £8431 reserved for
taxation.
New business placed in the
co.’s expert care last term
(£1,854,797, up £423,757) ex-
ceeded the value of estates
wound up by £239,728:
Exes.
p.c.
Gross ' In-
Trusts. Income. Exes. come.
1939.. £12,116,390 £51,390 £38,926 75.7
1940.. 12,253,449 52,358 38,958 74.4
1943.. 13,425,101 54,252 48,880 79.9
1944.'. 13,866,890 54,813 44,050 80.3
1945.. 14,107,451 57,843 46,197 79.8
1946.. 14,179,583 66,886 55,322 82.7
1947.. 14,494,954 73,358 61,508 83.8
1948.. 14,734,682 82,810 68,818 83.1
The improvement in gross earn-
ings from ,all sources was £9452,
and the growth in exes. £7310,
leaving thq net result £2142
better at £13,992. That was 13.9
p.c. on capital as against 11.8,
11.5, 11.6, 10.7 and 10.8 p.c. back
to 1943. Shareholders have never
failed to receive an annual dis-
tribution over the last 29 years,
the average being 10.1 p.c.—a
steady 12 p.c. for the 11 years
to the close of accounts in 1930,
followed by four lots of 8 p.c.
and then 10 p.c. for each year
since.
At 13s. 6d, (14s. 9d, a year
ago) the pound shares paid to ss.
each give an immediate return
of 3.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The investor at 13s. 6d. who
looks for a shade over 4 p.c. on
his money counts on the div.
being lifted to 11 p.c. Cover is
11s. Id. a share in net tangibles.
A patch of rich values has
shown up in No. 13 bore on the
Mt. Charlotte leases at the eas-
tern end of the Kalgoorlie Gol-
den Mile (W.A.), over which
Wiluna holds a three years’
working option. The disclosures
were:
Core. Depth. Assay.
27in. 150 ft. 3in. B.4sdwt.
33 „ 263 „ 3 ~ 14.91 „
6 „ 266 „ 0 „ 102.5 „
69 „ 534 „ 0 „ 9.04 „
144 „ 734 „ 0 „ 4.59 „
Drilling had already indicated
some 1,660,000 tons of 4.95dwt,
ore, of which 501,500 tons,
averaging 5.9dwt., lies between
the 150 ft. and 750 ft. horizons.
The main shaft has been en-
larged to 16ft. by 6ft. to a depth
of 500 ft.
* * * *
Mt. Lyell’s pound shares have
tumbled from 28s. to 225. 6d. in
the market over the last four
months. Reduction of output,
owing to shortage of coke, and
drop in the U.S. price of copper
are the trouble. The smelter
worked only 22 days for an out-
put of 647 tons blister during the
three months to end March,
compared with 51 days for an
outturn of 1644 tons blister in
the previous quarter. Since end
March there has been a sharp
fall in the U.S. price for all base
metals. Electrolytic has come
down from 23.5 cents to 18.5
cents a pound, a slip of 21.2 p.c.
At current rates of exchange
18.5 cents a pound is equal to
around £lO2 16s. a ton sterling
and £l2B 10s. a ton Australian,
The British and Australian buy-
ing price for electrolytic—£Sl4o
and £AI6O a ton respectively—
had not been brought into line
with the New York figure last
week-end. With costs as they
are, there is little profit in mm-
ing at Lyell with electrolytic at
£AI6O a ton. For each of the
last three years the co. has paid
5 p.c., mostly out of returns
from investments in the fertiliser
and copper-fabricating industries.


It must
he
m
illls
I \
M 'k 'h
A Penfold Hospital
kuv mom
SANDERS
Correspondence, invoices.
statement*, etc., filed In the
“Sander*" can be securely
bound and converted Into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —or
any other period
Price* and far*
ther information
upon application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agrnti-~
BFDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH pj
W C. Pen fold A Co. Ply. Ltd.
. Norroau Bros. Ply. Lid.
Vsrdon <& Sons Ltd.
„ Doc Art Booh Co. (Anst.)
If your Will leaves
an ‘average’ Estate
There is particular need to
provide for its efficient
management
Errors of judgment can be more damaging
to an “average” Estate than a similar loss to
a larger Estate.
By appointing Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as your Executor you ensure that
your Estate will benefit by the Company’s
62 years’ experience in the management of
Estates of many kinds and sizes.
Write for a copy of the booklet, “Your
Executor and Trustee”, that describes the
Company’s services and the charges.
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £67,000,000 (the
average Estate being less than
£10.600).
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOB ABSENTEES
& OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
BTC.
Directors:
Hon. X. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.; D. R. LTSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. 6. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA JFAGGA, TAMWORTH an 4 ORANGE
THE WAY TO PROGRESS.
On his return from London
last week Mr. Chifley said that
no change in the exchange rate
on London was contemplated. It
is desirable that no change
should take place at this junc-
ture, in view of the ever-increas-
ing costs of production in Aus-
tralia and the threatened down-
turn in export prices, already
evident in some cases. Until
stability is attained both in Aus-
tralia and overseas it would be
better not to alter a rate of ex-
change that has existed for
something like 17 years. And it
is unlikely that the desired
stability will be attained during
Mr. Chifley’s term of office.
We are certainly accumulat-
ing very large funds in London.
On April 27 the Commonwealth
Bank’s holding of gold and bal-
ances abroad was £391.7 million
Australian, an increase of about
£167 million in a year. Before
the war it was unusual for Aus-
tralia to have more than £5O
million sterling in London. The
big growth over the past year
was y the result of high export
prices. For the nine months to
March 31, in spite of a rise of
£62.7 million in the cost of im-
ports, the favorable trade bal-
ance was £62.8 million higher
(at £101.6 million) than for the
same period of the preceding
year. Exports were valued
£125.5 million higher at £407.5
million.
This valuation of exports for
nine months was greater than for
any fuIlT2-months period. The
value of wool exports (£168.6
million) was phenomenally high.
There has been some decline in
wool prices recently, but values
are still strong, and a wool
cheque of £2OO million is ex-
pected this year.
With such high export figures.
taken with the rise in wage-rates
and employment, a big increase
in the national income and in
taxation revenue for the fiscal
year 1948-49 seems assured.
National income for the preced-
ing year was £1635 million. This
year it may be closer to £2OOO
million. But the increase will be
in a large measure the result of
inflation, especially so far as the
rises in wages and employment
are concerned. Until recently
the cost of our imports was ris-
ing almost as steeply as the
prices received for our exports,
and it is doubtful even whether
the favorable trade balance we
are now showing is really the re-
sult of advantageous trading—
more probably is largely the re-
sult of difficulty in obtaining a
normal pre-war volume of im-
ports. However, as they stand
our overseas credit balances are
a “comfort in the light of recent
economic changes.
The inflated national income
should make it easier for Mr.
Chifley to proceed with his pro-
posed tax reductions after June
30. It may also tempt him into
further departmental extrava-
gances and socialistic ambitions.
Already (on February 28) his
Commonwealth civil service has
swollen to the prodigious figure
of 173,000 persons—about 2>\
times the pre-war total. All
civil servants and local-govern-
ment employees on February 28
numbered 605,200, compared
with 405,000 in July, 1939. The
increase in the number of Gov-
ernment employees since war be-
gan has been of the order of 50
p.c., whereas the growth in pri-
vate employment has been
something like 3>l\ p.c. The
total of private employment at
the end of February was
1,817,900 persons, compared
with 1,325,200 a couple of
months before war started.
This additional employment,
on the face of it, looks very im-
pressive. But there has been a
heavy fall in the effective aver-
age hours worked by each per-
son, largely the result of the 40-
hour week (sometimes shorter)
in all industries; and the vast
increase in the army of civil ser-
vants means, in the main, a drag
on the more productive sections
of the economy. Increases in the
civil service have not made Gov-
“There you are—just three minutes in the
pressure-cooker! ”
eminent transport services any
more efficient in the post-war
period, and transport is one of
the few services rendered by
Government departments that
are not of a purely administra-
tive nature.
When war broke out the aver-
age basic wage throughout the
Commonwealth was 78s. a week.
It i§ now about 124 s less
work. This comparison helps to
explain the falsity of our
“national-income” figures as they
are presented to us today.
A study of certain production
figures does the same service as
regards our real industrial pro-
gress. We are growing no more
wool than we did before the
war. We have had a couple of
good wheat crops, but our aver-
age has increased little, if any-
thing. Output of black coal in
the best production years since
war began have been only
slightly above pre-war level, and
there are now many more men
in the industry. And it is cer-
tain that if the demand had
existed in 1938-39 output then
would have been much higher
than it is today.
Output of steel in 1947-48 was
only about 10 p.c. higher than it
was in 1938-39, in spite of the
big increase in plant capacity in
the nine years. So far during this
fiscal year average output of
steel and pig-iron is below the
figure for 1938-39. We are pro-
ducing more zinc than before
the war but less lead, more tiles
but fewer bricks —the brick
position is shocking—more flour
but a great deal less butter and
meat. And the building of new
houses is hamstrung by the lack
of steel, bricks and other
materials, especially, of course,
coal.
This situation of inadequate
production makes a sorry con-
trast with the “full employ-
ment” and the boasted “national
income” of the Federal Govern-
ment. Of what value to the
nation is the extra 40 p.c. em-
ployment if, on the whole, we
are producing less of the basic
commodities which go into our
standard of living? Equally, what
of our £2OOO million “national
income” if its per capita value in
living standards is not as much
as the £Bl4 million figure of
1938-39?
There can be no real pros-
perity in Australia until we in-
crease our productivity in pro-
portion to the extra number of
people “employed.” It is only
the failure of our manpower—a
failure largely attributable tc\
Communism, Socialism and mis-
guided trade-unionism —that has
stopped us from exceeding our
pre-war per capita production,
And let us be in no two minds
about one thing: Additional
production is quite unlikely to
cau se a depression. For the next
10 years there is no good reason
wh ' aßy person in a ® ea lly essen .
, ia l industry should fear that by
wor kmg hard he will “work him-
self out of a job.” Australia has
plenty of work for all its citizens
f 0 do for a long time ahead. We
arc really in a production depres-
sion at present, and have been
j- or (be past five years. We are
lagging behind the world as re-
gards restored productivity. In-
dustrial activity needs a speed-
ing-up. And that is so even if
prices fall overseas, and a few in-
discreet Australian traders and
industrialists have to go to the
wall.
There is almost certain to be
readjustments in the prices for a
number of things as time goes
on. That may jar some sections
of our economy, but it should do
little more than emphasise the
lesson which it has been meant
to impart here: that progress is
impossible unless the realities of
our economic situation are faced.
We have the industrial oppor-
tunities ahead of us, we have the
economic experience and skill;
all we need in addition is the
political courage and the
national unity necessary to go
forward, deal with the obvious
political obstructions to progress
in Australia and decide to do a
fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay.
Conditions in the U.S.A.
The National City Bank of
New York, summing-up the
; situation in the United States re-
cently, reported that slackness in
business was continuing, but that
decline in activity was not
getting progressively worse. It
commented; “It would be pre-
mature to characterise as
‘general’ a recession which is not
cutting production of steel, or,
with very minor exceptions, of
automobiles, utility and railway
equipment, or of most non-
ferrous metals. Steel-mill opera-
tions have been setting new high
records each week.”
The primary change, says the
bank, is that demand is less
urgent, both from people and
business. In short, the return to
buyers’ markets, to seasonal
fluctuations and to competitive
conditions which in many cases
imply shrinking profit-margins
is spreading widely. For high-
cost producers and distributors,
including many of the 800,000
(net) new businesses established


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
Soa*€, tc heAAsMr W-Ct&v
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer*
lasting. That's why a Globito
costs less in the long run.
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
w
ŵ
ALL KINDS OF
k FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M 6261.
SCRAPS OF PAPER
difficulties of pioneers
'FI
&Z 1
says Jive shillings'."
"Mayhem-hut it's only worth three shillings.’
Financial chaos, due partly to the uncontrolled issue of promissory
notes hy private individuals, threatened the early life of the Colony
of New South Wales.
Known as “colonial currency”, these notes were one of the
principal circulating means of financial settlement Anyone could
issue them for amounts from 3d. to £3 and abuse was rife.
Forgery and fraud resulted in the depreciation of colonial
currency” from 25% to 40% of sterling.
The founding of the Bank of New South NVales was an important
step towards stabilising currency in the Colony, Later, the issue
of bank notes by the “Wales" forced “colonial currency” from
circulation.
For over 130 years, the Bank of New South Wales has fostered
the growth and development of Australia.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE PEOPLE’S BANK SINCE 1817
Incorporated In New South Wales with limited liability
A4910D
HE
COLONIAL MUTUAL LIFE
ASSURANCE SOCIETY LIMITED
C 1
i Ineeffod* \
Surplus distributed as 1948 Bonuses £1,000,000
Payments to Policyholders in 1948 £3,300,000
over £ll,OOO on every working day.
New policies written in 1948 for £36,700,000
an increase of £4,202,000 over the previous year.
Total Funds £52,600,000
a record increase of £4,918,000
Principal Office: 316 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE, C.l.
Directors: The Hon. Sir HARRY LAWSON, K.C.M.G., Chairman
Sir DALZIBL KELLY, LL.B. GEORGE D. HEALY
Major-General FRANK P. DERHAM, C. 8., D. 5.0., V.D.
R. V. S. MCPHERSON
General Manager and Secretary: C. B. HEARN, C.8.E., P.C.I.S.
Actuary: D. DRYBROUGH, M.A., F.F.A.
Chief Medical Officer: A. E. ROWDEN WHITE, M.D., F.R.A.C.P.
A PIBtXF MVTUAL SOCIETY
VO SBABEHOLOEHS
since 1945, the going is becom-
ing harder. One after another,
all businesses will have to con-
form to changing conditions.
The supporting elements, how-
ever, are impressive. Many fac-
tors are operating to hold up
personal incomes. They include
not only the record employment
at record wages still being en-
joyed, but also farm-price sup-
ports, unemployment-compensa-
tion and other welfare benefits,
and Government payments
generally. Buying-power is sup-
ported by the immense volume
of liquid assets which people
hold in U.S. savings bonds and
other forms. People have means,
and when they can get what they
want at satisfactory prices they
are buying.
The question is whether pro-
Auction will go on and payrolls
be maintained, and the answer
is that they will if the price and
quality of output are such that
people can sell to each other,
Since the inflation has priced
many people with lagging in-
comes out of the market, the
essential matter is to keep costs
and prices down.
The general situation makes it
plain that demands for “fourth-
round” wage increases are un-
timely. An example was set for
? industries in a decision
handed down on January 17
by the permanent arbitrator,
Professor Douglass V. Brown, of
Massachuserts Institute of Tech-
nology, m. the case of a 10
cents an hour increase requested
Tex V e Workers Union.
Weighing the arguments. Pro-
lessor Brown said:
mls ! a^ n grantin f f a wage-in-
crease at this tune, followed by no
increase or an insufficient increase in
demand, would open the door to the
possibility of serious unemployment
and loss of income to both employees
and companies.,..Taking into ac-
count the present situation in the in-
dustry, and weighing as best I can
the probabilities in the immediate
future, I am of the opinion that the
denial of the wage-increase at this
time is in the interest of the com-
panics, the union and the employees,
What is at stake in this case,
as in many others, is the balance
of price and wage relationships
in the whole economy. Prices of
the goods produced by certain
textile mills have dropped below
the peak by nearly half in some
constructions, and by 30 to 35
per cent, on the average, the
decision says. Many prices
are down to price-control
(1946) levels, but Professor
Brown noted that wages are
26 cents an hour higher than at
that time. Despite the price de-
dine, largely at the expense of
profits, the mills have been un-
able to sell their output. They
have accumulated stock and
have cut their operations some
25 per cent. A wage-increase
now would raise costs and
would raise prices or shrink
profits further. In either case
additional curtailment could be
expected. When the markets
will no longer absorb their pro-
ducts workers who seemingly
gain through higher wage-rates
must expect to give up the gains
through unemployment. The
markets narrow because other
people do not, and in most cases
cannot, receive equivalent in-
creases in income. Some, as
farmers, are receiving smaller in-
comes.
Another example for the
United States has been set by the
Amalgamated Clothing Workers,
fourth - largest C. 1.0. union,
which has decided not to press
for a fourth-round wage-in-
crease. Still another is the case
of union carpenters in Spring-
field, Missouri, who admit they
have “priced themselves” out of
jobs and propose to take a 20
per cent, wage-cut to help
stimulate construction. But other
unions, which appear to have
Jess non-union competition, were
CO ol to the idea,
xhe paramount interest of
everyone, says the National City
B an i Cj should be in maintaining
production, which is the only
s ource 0 f rea i welfare and pro-
gresSj and sustaining employ-
merfo Production depends upon
fog maintenance of terms of
trade which will enable people
t 0 exchange their products. For
a long time the relations of
wages, costs, prices and incomes
h seemed to have little im-
, . ~ .. .. T „
portance in the Situation. In-
flated demands overcame and
obscured all distortions and all
i ap „ of i ncotT , e including those
lap ot income, inciuamg inose
which the inflation created. But
as inflationary monetary pres-
sures are absorbed and corn-
mnriitv an d merchandise oinc-
a?<J merchandise pipe-
lines are filled the subsidence ot
demand makes the terms of
trade again of first importance,
as the Springfield carpenters
have discovered. The phrase
“priced out of the market” takes
on a more urgent meaning.
. . K . .... .
Amalgamated Wireless
Evidently the main share-
holders in A.W.A. over the past
two years have been the respec-
tive Governments of Mr. Chifley
(with a 50.7 p.c. interest) and Mr.
Attlee (18.6 p.c.)—until Mr.
Chifley recently bought out Mr.
Attlee at an undisclosed price,
The British Government had
picked up its holding in January,
1947, by nationalising Cable and
Wireless, Ltd., a large A.W.A.
shareholder.
Now the Commonwealth will
reduce its interest from 69 p.c.
back to the formally-agreed 51
p.c. by abstaining from A.W.A.’s
new capital issue. Non-Govern-
ment shareholders are offered
350.000 new Bs. 6d. shares on a
basis slightly better than share-
for-share and at a premium of
10s. each. Paid capital will then
be £567,565.
When A.W.A.’s chairman
said five months ago that there
might shortly be a new issue of
779,188 new shares he envisaged
a £331,155 increase in capital,
and possibly some premium-
money as well. The present issue
will bring in £323,750, but
£175,000 represents premiums.
The issue is exactly calculated to
restore the statutory balance be-
tween official and public share-
holders —but whether it covers
all A.WA.’s present capital re-
quirements isn’t certain.
Shareholders will observe that
the £175,000 of premiums
provides a substantial boost
to the co.’s earning-rate on
capital, and hence potentially
to future dividends for Mr.
Chifley as well as them-
selves, though he contributed
none of the premiums. It may
be that the price Mr. Chifley has
paid for the Cable and Wireless
holding was around twice the
18s. 6d. which ordinary share-
holders are now paying for their
new scrip, but all his premiums
have gone to Whitehall. If Mr.
Attlee accepted recent (say,
March) market-values the price
may have been about 375.
Latest quotes for the rights have
oscillated between 2s, 6d. and
4s.
Western Steel Enterprises,
Ltd, (B. 16/3/’49), which offered
1.200.000 ss. shares to the pub-
lic early in March, has decided
to withdraw its prospectus and
return all application and allot-
ment moneys received. The
board had up to May 15 to pro-
ceed to allotment, provided the
entire issue was subscribed. No
definite reason has been given
for the return of applications.
The issue of the prospectus coin-
cided with a slump in the share-
markets. The co. proposed
eventually to control the manu-
facture of steel in Westralia
from iron-ore brought from
Yampi Sound, but to start with
a subsidiary was to process
scrap-iron, scrap-steel and pig-
iron from the W.A. Govern-
ment’s charcoal-iron undertak-
ing at Wundowie.
♦-* * «
North Australian Cement,
Ltd., registered in Brisbane last
year with a nominal capital of
£1,000,000 in pound shares, says
it will soon issue 500,000 shares.
The Hanlon Government will
guarantee a loan of up to
£200,000 from the National
Bank of Australasia, Queensland
Cement and Lime Co. will take
120.000 shares, Adelaide Steam-
ship Co. the same, and Goliath
Portland Cement (Tas.) 25,000,
leaving 235,000 for the public.
It is expected to spend £60,000
on a cement works and putchase
of a limestone quarry, both near
Townsville. Output of cement is
forecast at 60,000 tons a year.
* * * ♦
During the visit of C. H. Crab-
tree, chairman of directors of
Hoe and Crabtree, Ltd., London,
to Australia he made arrange-
ments to purchase a “substantial
interest” in Bell and Valentine,
Ltd., makers of rotary presses
and other printing machinery
in South Melbourne. While
this is expected to result
in an expansion of Bell and
Valentine’s activities in the
future, it is not proposed at the
present time to make any
changes in the organisation.
Much will carry on under its
existing name. There will be no
change in the management, and
all existing directors will remain
on the board, with the addition
of representatives of the Hoe and
Crabtree interest. The firm of
Bell and Valentine was estab-
lished abotit 45 years ago, and it
has done a lot of work for Mel-
bourne “Herald,” as well as for
most other Australian news-
papers.


742D.2.49
Because of the
careful blending
of choice Virginia
Tobaccos in
Capstan
own blend it is a
pleasure to smoke
Capstan
cigarettes
Time for a
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE'S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818 •
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS;
C. O. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
SsV
Write with a nib precisely
suited to your hand . . . write
with a Swan Pen. A Swan is a
pleasure to use, a treasure to
own. At stationers, jewellers and
stores, priced from 30/- to 89/6.
SWAN
PENS
SWAN JL INKS
—BREWED— not merely mixed
Swan Inks in the famous blue-black and 4
brilliant colours are clear, free-flowing and
remarkably permanent . . . the finest inks
for any type of pen.
MABIE TODD (aust.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
to
/S
• /189
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
LORDS DEBATE ARTIFICIAL
INSEMINATION.
“No aspect of a difficult and
delicate subject was shirked in
this remarkable debate.”
Thus London “Times,” on the
House of Lords discussion of
“the social, legal and moral im-
plications of the use of artificial
insemination of human beings.”
The strange development and
points made on it in the debate
have more than ordinary im-
portance in all Christian coun-
tries. The debate was opened
by the Marquess of Reading,
who said that artificial insemina-
tion among human beings was
regarded by some people as a
scientific development for which
humanity should be grateful. On
the other hand, many would
view it with horror and repug-
nance and wish that it had never
been devised. But the fact had
to be faced that it existed and
was increasingly practised.
He quoted a recent legal
case in which a decree of nullity
was granted to the wife on the
ground of her husband’s inca-
pacity, after a child had been
bom to her. There had been no
consummation of the marriage
in the sense hitherto understood.
But there was a child, however
it had been procreated. It was
the child of that father and that
mother, and yet, .as the law
stood, the decision was inevitable
on the part of the Judge. The
child was thereby rendered ille-
gitimate.
Adultery Issue
It was, he added, a subject
of acute controversy and diverg-
ence of opinion* and it raised
any number of problems. If
artificial insemination was going
to be regarded as the consum-
mation of marriage it might
have disastrous effects. There
was also the question of arti-
ficial insemination by a donor
other than the husband. That
raised even more complex ques-
tions. The view had been ex-
pressed by an eminent legal
authority that such artificial in-
semination constituted adultery.
But that view needed to be care-
fully considered before any defi-
nite decision was made upon it.
If it was right, then presum-
ably if the donor were known,
though they were rarely identi-
fied, he could be cited as co-
respondent unless the husband
consented and therefore con-
nived at adultery. It was irra-
tional if, in a case of artificial
insemination by the husband, the
marriage could be annulled be-
cause there was no consumma-
tion, artificial insemination not
being consummation for that
purpose, while on the other hand
it could be put forward as an in-
stance of adultery, because for
that purpose it was regarded as
extra-marital intercourse.
He had seen it authoritatively
suggested that artificial insemi-
nation by a donor should be
made a criminal offence. He be-
lieved that would be a fatal
error. Any attempt to make it a
criminal offence would merely
have the effect, at the point at
which it had now arrived, of
driving it underground and forc-
ing it into clandestine and un-
controlled uses.
The Government, he con-
cluded, should appoint a royal
commission or departmental
committee to go into every
aspect of this difficult, danger-
ous and debatable subject.
Lord Brabazon made the
point that the artifical insemi-
nation donors were curious
people. “Anyone who wished to
be a donor must be a megalo-
maniac of the first order, and
consequently not of sound mind.
Anyone desiring a large family,
completely unknown to him,
without the sympathy, personal
contact and love of a woman
must be well on the way to a
lunatic asylum.”
He added that he did not think
“many people would be found
in our society who would con-
sent to this process.”
Archbishop’s Views
Far the weightiest, and in fact
most outspoken, contribution to
the debate was that of the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, who last
year set up a special Church
commission to make a thorough
investigation—sufficient indica-
tion in itself of the growth of
the practice in Britain.
Speaking from the informa-
tion in that commission’s report,
the Archbishop began by stat-
ing that artificial insemination
was less widespread in Britain
than in the U.S., but added that
it would “certainly grow in
Britain if left to itself.”
It raised matters, he said, of
such importance that it should
not be left to grow merely by
inadvertence. Moral theology
had a very clear verdict on it.
A.I.H. [artificial insemination by
the husband], although it raised
certain problems for the
moralist, was to some extent jus-
tified in that it enabled the ful-
filment as between husband and
wife of one of the chief ends of
their marriage, the procreation
of children. A.I.D. [artificial in-
semination by a donor] was
wrong in principle and contrary
to all Christian standards.
Husbands and Donors
Pointing out that when a child
born as the result of A.I.D. was
registered, the nominal father
registered himself as the real
father, thereby committing a
criminal offence under the Per-
jury Act, 1911, for which a sen-
tence of seven years’ imprison-
ment might be imposed, the
Archbishop contended that that
obviously raised other most im-
portant legal points connected
with titles, estates, interests or
funds, and it might seriously
affect inheritance or succession.
The child of A.I.D; was in the
eyes of the law illegitimate. The
whole process rested on a basis
of deceit, and it could not be left
like that.
It astonished him that the
Medical Defence Union should
have given advice to medical
practitioners on how to protect
themselves professionally against
adverse legal consequences. But
if the practice of A.I.D. itself
was made a criminal offence no
doctor could employ it without
losing his professional standing
and without himself becoming
liable to a charge. The only
effective way to prevent the prac-
tice was to forbid the doctor to
employ it.
Referring to a recent decree
of nullity being granted,
although by A.I.H. a child had
been born of the marriage, the
Archbishop described it as an
“astonishing decision.” The child
born in wedlock by A.I.H. was
thus declared illegitimate and
was therefore conceived in adul-
tery, or in fornication, presum-
ably fornication, since a decree
of nullity was given. They got
the absurd position that between
husband and wife there was for-
nication.
A.1.D., he insisted, was adul-
tery. The suggestion that it
should be employed to enable
unmarried women to bear chil-
dren was on all grounds to be re-
jected, even though there was a
movement on foot to found a
society to encourage it. It was
directly opposed to universal
social instincts, Christian pre-
cepts of morality and the mean-
ing and dignity of marriage.
Underground Practice
The Archbishop further con-
tended that in the interests of
society, the family and of the
child, ,and on a long view,
since obedience to Christian
principles was the only firm
basis for happiness, in the
interests of those who were
drawn to this practice, he held
that it should be forbidden. It
was rooted in perjury and de-
prived the child of the right to
know who his parents were. It
deprived relatives and society of
that same right. If the law were
altered to make the practice
legitimate it would extend that
range of uncertainty. If it was
said that prohibiting it would
drive it underground it was
underground already. It was
secret and concealed.
What was at stake was a deep
spiritual principle. This practice
involved criminal perjury, it was
based on continuing deception
and endangered the family and
society. It was contrary to
Christian principles and stand-
ards. It should not be allowed
to grow or to continue. The
evils necessarily involved were so
great that early consideration
should be given to the framing
of legislation to make the prac-
tice a criminal offence.
Father of Hundreds
Lord Merriman said he won-
dered what was going to hap-
pen about the next generation.
The Medical Union, he added,
had said they were prepared to
limit the numbers of insemina-
tion from one donor at one time
to 100. There was no difficulty
in increasing that twofold. That
meant plainly that in the range
of practice of one given doctor
a man might be siring 100 boys
and girls at one time. What Was
going to happen when half-
brothers and -sisters fell in love
20 years later?
A.I.D. was based on fraud.
It was no use comparing it with
adoption, which was out in the
open. The whole essence of
A.I.D. was fraud and secrecy.
Replying for the Government,
and turning down suggestions
for an immediate inquiry or
legislation aimed at banning the
practice. Lord Chorley said it
had been suggested by the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, and by
the eminent lawyers who advised
him, that artificial insemination
by an outside donor involved
adultery. Those who advised the
Government on legal problems
shared the doubts of the validity
of that opinion, and it was not
regarded as at all clear that arti-
ficial insemination by an outside
donor did in fact amount to
adultery.
“If,” interjected the Arch-
bishop of Canterbury, “it is not
adultery, what is it?”
Lord Chorley. That may
eventually have to be decided by
the courts. The Government
cannot accept the view that this
is so clearly adultery as has been
suggested in the Archbishop’s
report.
Strong arguments had been
put forward, he added, that mak-
ing such intercourse a criminal
offence would drive it under-
ground.
The Archbishop.—lt is under-
ground already.
Lord Chorley.—To a certain
extent that is so, but it is carried
on on the basis of medical super-
vision. To make it a criminal
offence would undoubtedly drive
it underground in a very dif-
ferent way.
The Corns Squeal.
Mostly it’s a solemn affair,
but at least one bit of humor has
intruded on the current con-
spiracy trial of 11 leading U.S.
Corns.
The joke was on the defence ;
the prosecution, without warn-
ing, calling as a witness one Her-
bert A. Philbrick, who had for
years been accepted as a dyed-in-
the-Red Com. of the deepest
hue.
It then transpired that Phil-
brick had been “planted” on
the Corns by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation, and
actually was, as N.Y. “Daily
Mirror” put it, “an American
patriot of a very high order
who risked personal ruin to get
the damaging and devastating
facts on Communism.”
As Philbrick proceeded to spill
the heaps—giving substantial
chapter-and-verse support to the
testimony of former Com.
Budenz and others —the squeals
from the Com. side rose loud
in the land. The defence com-
plained of it as an “unfair sur-
prise” ; there was the usual


What is YOUR Criminal Record?
You think you have none? Wait a moment. Ever
open a letter addressed to someone else? Hit anyone
except in self-defence? Been intoxicated in a public
place? Under-assess your earnings in your income
tax return? In May Reader’s Digest Murray Bloom
tells how, if our laws were enforced, 99% of us
would have paid large sums in fines, or even have
served time in jail.
Also in May Reader's Digest
Cheaper by the Dozen has
everybody laughing 1 . May
Reader’s Digest brings you a
rollicking, 19-page condensa-
tion from this number one
best-seller. Read how a lov-
able factory efficiency expert
(and his patient wife) tried
to bring up 12 (yes, 12!) red-
headed children with the same
time-saving schemes he used
in plants. Here’s hilarious
reading for your whole family.
What price money? We spend
our lives working, worrying,
even dying for money. Yet,
strangely, what we want it
for happiness and security
can’t be bought. I. A. R.
Wylie tells the simple incident
that taught her that life’s
best things are free —and how
she learned to keep money in
its place.
Man who could not die. Five
times he was within hours,
even minutes, of execution
for a murder he didn’t commit.
Fantastic true story of dim-
witted Charli’e Stielow (victim
of a detective’s ambition, a
New York Governor’s stub-
bornness, and antiquated
laws) . . . and how an inflamed
public finally freed him.
How to acquire the art of
leadership. Contrary to popu-
lar belief, psychologists now
find that leaders are NOT
born, but can be made says
Dr. Henry C. Link. He shows
how the first step to becoming
a leader is to become a good
follower . . . and lists 6 guides
to help you develop leadership
qualities. ,
My most unforgettable char-
acter. He told of surviving
a duel with a 50-ft. python,
dining at Buckingham Palace,
seeing pirates hanged near
the Yangtze River, collecting
herbs in Tibet. Fascinating
story of a man who read his
adventures in books but had
a whole worshipping town
bamboozled.
Peter "the Great". In the
Great Purge, he personally
lopped off the first heads each
morning. He had the head
of his wife’s lover put in a
jar on her dresser. Gory story
of the 6'B|" giant who built
Russia into a world power,
died mad with disease, and
whom the Russians admire
hugely today.
In this issue—more than
30 articles of lasting
interest, selected from
leading magazines and
current books, and con-
densed to save your time.
Read and enjoy May
Readers Digest
ONE SHILLING All Newsagents and Bookstalls
attempt to “smear” the witness ;
and then, to make it really
funny, the party expelled him.
No Peace, But No War.
All through last year’s loud
war alarms —over the Berlin
blockade, air-lift incidents, etc.
—“U.S. News and World Re-
port” kept on insisting (some-
times practically as a lone voice)
that there’d be no war.
It is still doing so. It’s easy
enough, it says, to make out a
plausible case that Russia is
about to start a war, but “in-
formed Europeans are not bet-
ting that way; the West’s
generals and diplomats, in fact,
are betting the other way.” Rea-
sons for this optimism:
The Atlantic Alliance, with
U.S. membership and arms,
makes the West a unit —a big
one which could put up a fight
—and aggressors prefer an easier
foe, a sure thing.
War between East and West
would be a long one. The Red
Army gives Russia a temporary
edge, might even give it control
of Europe, but that wouldn’t
end the war. In time U.S.
strength would tell. A quick
Soviet victory is not in the cards.
Soviet weaknesses are against
war. Russia’s economy has not
recovered from World War 11.
Another war might drain it dry.
Five-year plans, Stalin’s promises
of better living for the Russian
people have to be put aside in
time of war. It’s a question how
much longer Soviet citizens will
wait for the abundance promised
them for 30 years and not yet
delivered. All the signs are that
the Russian people want peace
apd more goods, not war and
scarcity.
Also, the Soviet front “has a
hole in it; Marshal Tito can’t
be relied on.”
In addition, “weighing heavily
against war this spring,” the
U.S. price-drop persuades Mos-
cow that a U.S. depression, pre-
dicted by all good Marxists, is
around the corner.
Moreover, Soviet gains since
1945 have been huge, anyway.
In Europe “Soviet Russia is
overwhelmingly the biggest
Power.” In Asia, “Soviet power
is growing unchecked.” A war
that Russia can’t be sure of
winning can cost it all these
gains.
Hence, “pressures short of
war seem more to be indicated
than war. That’s how it looks
to officials in the capitals of
Western Europe. They expect
no war. They can’t be absolutely
sure, of course. That accounts
for some uneasiness here and
there. But, on net, Europe ex-
pects peace, of a sort.”
Arab Refugees.
Red Cross, American Quakers
and others are finding it par-
ticularly tough going trying to
aid Arab refugees from Pales-
tine,
There are some 800,000 such
refugees, but 1 what makes it
tough is the traditional Arab
customs and habits.
Thus a London “Times”
special article states that the
Arabs tend instinctively to resist
any advice or innovation,
especially in matters of hygiene,
and to obstruct the development
of medical and relief pro-
grammes.
For reasons of religion and
habit the Arabs are accustomed
to foods totally unlike those of
the West, and any assistance
must take this into account.
They are also extremely irregu-
lar in their diet, which varies
with the seasons. They eat a
great deal of bread of a particu-
lar kind, rice, sugar (they are
inordinately fond of sweet
things), certain kinds of peas
and fruits, most of which the
local soil does not produce.
The only meat they cffre for
is mutton, and that perhaps once
or twice a month. They use
mutton fat and olive-oil with
their bread, butter being practi-
cally unknown. On religious
grounds they do not eat pork,
and for this reason often reject
canned meat because they fear it
may be mixed with pork or pre-
pared with pork fat. Milk is
rarely used in its fresh state,
although they are fond of you-
ghourt and certain kinds of
white cheese. On the other
hand, cheese sent from Switzer-
land Was refused, and great
difficulty was found in trying to
induce them to accept condensed
milk.
Thus they cling religiously to
tradition and to traditional re-
ligion despite the fact that they
—“Saturday Evening Post.”
SPRING-CLEANING.
are in such dreadful plight from
hunger and hunger-diseases that
a large proportion of them are
doomed to death.
Greek Tragedy.
To “Christian Science Moni-
tor” correspondent Joseph G.
Harrison’s grim report (lately
quoted here) on the bitter results
of the Kremlin-directed fighting
in Greece can be added a few
sentences from a later report by
the same capable eyewitness:
“If you wish to see a monu-
ment to Russian Communism do
not go to Moscow —come here
to Greece.
“Come here apd see the vil-
lages and farms which have
been burned, see the 700,000
helpless Greek refugees, see the
mothers weeping for their chil-
dren abducted and sent behind
the Iron Curtain, see the fruit-
trees and the cattle which have
been purposely blighted and
slaughtered, see all the indescrib-
able sweep of misery, poverty
and suffering which follows
wherever the Communist terror-
ists have passed.
“For even the throttling of
liberty in such countries as
Czechoslovakia and Rumania,
even the farcical trials in Hun-
gary and Bulgaria, even the
growing poverty in Yugoslavia
do not disclose with such glaring
clarity the ruthlessness and de-
pravity of Russia’s foreign ag-
gression against the weak as do
present events in Greece.
“Incredible as it may seem,
Greek guerrillas, operating
under the orders of the Soviet
Union, have done more harm to
Greece than did the utterly
heartless occupation by ■ Nazi
Spain and the West.
Apparently it’s taken for
granted in Washington and Lon-
don that, because Spain was the
first country to make a fighting
stand against Communism and
remains, above all, anti-Com-
munist, it would automatically
range up on the Western side in
any war started by the Kremlin.
Considerable doubt on that
blithe assumption is cast in a
London “Times” letter by one
who knows Spain and its people
better than most do —former
British Naval Attache in Spain
Alan Hillgarth. He says it
“has probably been a great com-
fort to the military planners and
to many of the politicians who
overruled them” (he could have
more frankly stated that the
politicians referred to are
Britain’s Labor crowd, on this
issue preferring safety from their
sentimental Left-wing to general
security).
To the Western military
planners, adds Hillgarth, it
would presumably have been
better to have had time to de-
velop Spanish airfields, com-
munications, ports and arma-
ments, but they evidently accept
that “at least they could rely on
Spain being open to the Atlantic
allies when the time came”:
“The miscalculation is that
they cannot rely on anything of
the kind.
“Unfortunately, foreign ignor-
ance of the Spanish character is
abysmal. The Spanish nation
would not react in the expected
way, and no Government could
go against the national will in a
question of war or no war, even
if it wanted to.
“It is true that nearly all
Spaniards detest Russia and
Communism, but the same
people feel themselves isolated,
injured and insulted by the Wes-
tern Powers, and the immediate
reaction in the event of a crisis
would be a determination to re-
main neutral unless actually
attacked.
“Moreover, apart from the
matter of national pride, a
moment’s thought will show that
a country unprepared for
modern war will not willingly
embark upon it at the invitation
of those very people who are
responsible for its unprepared-
ness.”
Atom-bomb Stockpile.
Very few, of course, know
how many atom-bombs there
are in the U.S. stockpile, but a
rough sort of Sherlockian deduc-
tion on the number has been
made in a Scripps - Howard
article based on public testimony
given by leading U.S. atom-ex-
pert Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer,
chairman of the general advisory
committee of the Atomic Energy
Commission.
The testimony was given
several years back, on these
lines:
Oppenheimer; “If we wanted
to have, I will say, one thous-
and bombs, two years would be
a lot of work and the whole
country would feel it.”
Senator Tydings: “In other
words, it would take two years.”
Oppenheimer; “Yes, to accu-
mulate one thousand bombs.”
Tydings; “If it were decided
to make bombs from our peace-
time atomic energy, how long
would it take us to complete
two hundred?”
Oppenheimer; “Maybe a little
over a year.”
Tydings; “How long would it
take us to make fifty?”
Oppenheimer: “Maybe nine
months.”
Scripps - Howard comment
added: “Since he testified 36
months have passed. If 50 bombs
were made every nine months we
would have 200 on hand now.”
Whatever the stockpile may
be, Forrestal, when he was U.S.
Defence Secretary, worked on
the policy, still sensibly being
followed in U.S. defence plan-
ning, that “the atomic bomb
does not make the United States
immiine from attack; neither
does it guarantee victory in the
event of attack.”
It would, the Secretary de-
clared, be “the height of folly”
to assume that war could be
won with any single weapon.
The Western nations “must have
a strong army, a strong navy
and a strong air force, all work-
ing together in the closest team-
work in all circumstances.”
To say the least, a different
outlook on defence from the
ditherings of Mr. Dedman and
the rest of the “push-button”
platoon at Canberra.
Dragnet Digest.
Caledonians Stern and Wild. —
Field-Marshal Montgomery rashly
sticks his neck out in two directions
at a dinner of the 15th (Scottish)
Division: “The Scottish fighting-man
is perhaps tougher than the average
English soldier because he is still
somewhat uncivilised.”
* * * *
Liquidation Pending. Comrade
Gallacher, of the House of Commons,
declined to join that chorus of
traitorous advance welcoming the
Red Army which was probably the
most stupid of all blunders in the
Corns’ entire crooked record of
clumsiness. Pressed by Earl Winter-
ton, who had used the word “traitor,”
Gallacher told the House: “If war
should come and foreign troops occu-
pied this country I would be a par-
tisan fighting against, and for the
removal of, the foreign troops.”
* * * *
Red Tide Receding. —Though ap-
parently he wasn’t speaking for pub-
lication, America’s European Recovery
Programme Ambassador Harriman is
stated by a “Christian Science Moni-
tor” correspondent at The Hague to
have told U.S. officials there that “the
tide is now definitely turning against
the Communists in Europe.” Taking
a look into the crystal-ball, Harriman
added that “in five or 10 years from
now the West will be wondering why
it was ever so worried about the
Russians.”
* * *
Who Ratifies U.S. Treaties?—Per-
haps a fine point, but one that would
stump many quiz experts, is explained
by a N. Y. “Times” letter-writer.
The U.S, Constitution, he. points out,
declares: “He [the President] shall
have power, by and with the advice
and consent of the Senate, to make
treaties, provided two-thirds of the
Senators present concur.” Thus,
though there is that qualification, it
is the Executive —i.e., the President —
who has the final ratifying word, and
not, as most believe, the. Senate.
* * $ *
Soviet Doubts on China. —Explained
by Washington “Post”: “A fact that
deserves to be pondered is that the
Soviet Union hasn’t yet let off a
single firework over the Communist
victory in China. Why? Well, in
1927, when the Communists last
triumphed in China, Muscovite fire-
works turned out to be damp squibs;
in other words, the victors in China
turned Nationalist.”
* * * *
Depending on Peace. —From a re-
cent speech in Washington by Bernard
M. Baruch: “Today the crux of our
problem is that there is no peace.
We must deal with this first. It is
futile to talk of free enterprise with
a threat of war overhanging, for free
enterprise needs peace to function. It
is equally futile to talk of planning
until we have determined how to
achieve a decision in the peacemaking.
The planners can draw wondrous
charts, but until some port is fixed
as our destination we will continue
drifting. We will have motion with-
out direction.”
♦ * * *
Pledge to Shoot. —One of the
minority of Americans who intensely
dislike the Atlantic Pact on purely
isolationist grounds, N. Y, “Daily
News” writer John O’Donnell com-
ments on it: “If the Atlantic Pact
isn’t a pledge to start shooting and
atom-bombing at Soviet Russia the
moment some of Pal Joey’s toughies
muscle their way into Denmark or
Norway, as Hitler’s boys did back in
the spring of ’4O, without waiting
for action by Congress or anybody
else, why, then, the whole mess of
words just doesn’t make sense.”
* * * *
Chinee Remains Peculiar. —A
“Christian Science Monitor” corres-
pondent in China reports an odd
aspect of the war there: “The
majority of China’s millions do not
regard themselves as participants in
a civil war or revolution. They still
appear mainly concerned with looking
out for themselves, so their resistance
potential is low. Indeed, many Kuo-
mintang (Nationalist-party) officials
in Peiping immediately went to work
for the Communists —without any
apparent sense of betrayal.”
,** * *
Medicine and Duty. Professor
Lewis Haney, of New York Univer-’
sity, on Britain’s socialised medicine:
“The ‘Socialist-medicine’ scheme not
only turns the doctor into a Govern-,
ment employee, but it treats you and
me like cattle. The thing is run like
a factory system, say a meat-packing"
plant. You have to get an order
from a board for any expensive job.
The boards are swamped, and turn
the work over to clerks! But that
isn’t as bad as the spirit of the whole
system. It is designed to get you
back on the job for the State as soon
as possible. This results in ‘harsh
certification.’ The Government doc.
has to pass on you for sickness-leave
and disability to go to work again.
His master and yours, the State,
wants you back in the work-army.
So you are shoved through the mill
like work-animals.”
* * * *
British-made. Unsolicited testi-
monial from an unusual quarter; a
German, Guido Sommer, writing a
letter from Germany to London
“Times”: “I feel that I should like
to express to you my unrestricted
admiration for English materials. I
am the possessor of two suits, made
of English cloth, which I had made
exactly 22 years ago—in April, 1927 —
at Konigsberg and which have lasted
so well that they still look quite
presentable and are worn daily by
me at my work. More one can
certainly not expect from any suiting.
I do not know whether any records
have been set up in this sphere, but
if so, then it seems to me that my
two suits, which have so far lasted
22 years, must be at least Spitzen-
Favoriten —‘top favorites’.”


It is the Hears of Maturing
that mahe them Alluring
ESTABLISHED 1847
Gtkmdo
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
F. W. Tydeman, State engineer for
Westralia’s harbors and rivers, must find
the job comparatively a sinecure. Aus-
tralian naval men serving with the British
Eastern Fleet, based in Ceylon during the
war, will remember what an exploding
ammunition ship did to Bombay harbor.
The port was being prepared to mount a
major operation when the huge blast
razed 200 acres of dockland, smashed 26
ships out of action and criss-crossed the
area with a tangled fence of splintered
debris 60ft, high. A 450 ft. vessel berthed
near the ammunition ship was lifted over
a 50ft. wall and dropped on dry land.
Troops marshalled from Africa, Burma
and Persia teamed up with British sailors
and hoed into a job that an Indian
authority estimated would be finished in
10 years. The port was working in six
months. Tydeman was the engineer who
cleared the mess.
The brotherhood of blue-water men
will commiserate with Captain Douglas
Lee, master of the brand-new Britisher
Magdalena, which piled up off Rio re-
cently. It was her first trip, and his last.
Appointed Governor of Victoria,
General Sir Dallas Brooks, K.C.8.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., Commandant-General of
the Royal Marines. Fifty-two, he has a
military record equal to Lord Dugan’s.
Wounded at Gallipoli at 18, he was pro-
moted lieutenant in the field in 1915,
won the Croix de Guerre and collected
the D.S.O. when he landed with an R.M.
gun-team at Zeebrugge. In World War
11 he was Chief-of-Staff to General
Hunton, Commandant-General of the
Marines; later was Deputy-Director-
General of the Political Warfare Execu-
tive, and will be just the man for Lud
Mayor Disney, who has won the Olympic
Torch for Melbourne, A noted golfer,
a Hampshire county cricketer and an
international hockey-player, the new Gov,
cricketed under C. B. Fry’s captaincy for
Hampshire and for the Services against
Armstrong’s 1921 team. And military
parades will need to pull their chests up
and their butts in—the Royal Marines are
recognised among the world’s crack regi-
ments for the deliberate precision of their
drill.
Retired in Victoria after 37 years’
sleuthing. Sergeant Sydney McGuffie,
who was distinguished from fellow-
hunters by the red rose he wore in fiis
lapel when after a murderer. Whether
or no the emblem had any effect on
boning his quarry, he had marked suc-
cess in tracking crime, especially when
it involved sifting a large amount of appa-
rently trivial detail. He was one of the
“Terrible Ten” squad which cleaned up
Chinatown and Melbourne’s parks and
slums in 1917, and was also in the detach-
ment which ran down Leonski, the
American soldier who murdered three
women.
Newly-appointed air attache in Wash-
ington, Group-Captain C. W. Pearce,
C.8.E., D.F.C., has been O.C. N. Eastern
area at Townsville. He joined the
R.A.A.F. in 1930, and when war broke
was in England to bring home our Sun-
derlands; he remained to command the
famous 10 Sunderland Squadron, which
was attached to the R.A.F. for the dura-
tion and which flew and fought enemy
fighters and subs, from Biscay to the
N. Atlantic, with sorties over Dunkirk,
La Rochelle and Bordeaux in between.
For this, D.F.C. —the first awarded
to an R.A.A.F.-type since the Service’s
formation in 1921. From 1941 to 1943
New Guinea was his field —C.O, in
Moresby and S.A.S.O. of No. 10 Ops.
Group, with command of the First Tacti-
cal Air Force in 1946. That year he
was appointed A.D.C. to the then Gov-
ernor-General the Duke of Gloucester.
Calling it a day from directing Maori-
land’s Broadcasting Service, Professor
James Shelley practically pioneered that
show. Resisting criticism, believing
workers as well as intellectuals capable of
appreciating high-quality programmes, he
developed the service along cultural fines.
William Yates, his former assistant and
script-writer and play-supervisor, succeeds
him.
Old Digger J. D. O’Hagan will close
a crowded career next month when he
retires from Queensland’s Under-Secre-
taryship for Justice. Starting'his public-
service experience in 1901 as a clerk in
the department he is leaving, he has filled
so many important posts that the list
would overrun this page. Among them,
he was private secretary to five Attorneys-
General or Ministers of Justice, begin-
ning with knight James Blair in 1907,
then Premier T. J. Ryan. Secretary to
the Queensland Commission at the Wem-
bley Empire Exhibition in 1924, he next
had a spell as deputy-chairman of Bris-
bane’s Tramway Trust. An age limit
enforces his retirement.
Archbishop Booth, of Melbourne, per-
formed a ceremony said to be unique in
Australia when he blessed a plough at
the little church of St. John’s at Riddell,
near Geelong. It took only 100 people
to cram the small fane, while an over-
flow of 200 farmer-families listened
through amplifiers outside. As the Arch-
bishop can turn a clean furrow himself
he was able to indicate beam and mould-
board, the slade, the sidecap, the share
and the coulters as he named them in
accordance with the order prescribed in
the service which originated at Chichester
Cathedral. Last year he gave his blessing
to the fish-industry at Queenscliff.
The Geelong boy John Brownlee has
completed another succesful season at
the New York Metropolitan and his 26th
year of singing since he left the choir at
Sleepy Hollow. A son is following in his
father’s footsteps; he is a brilliant mem-
ber of one of the most famous choirs in
the U.S., that of the Church of the
Blessed Sacrament, chosen by Stravinsky
to sing a Mass of his own composition
with himself conductor. John himself goes
to Britain shortly to sing in Mozartian
operas at the Glyndebourne Opera and
the Edinburgh Festival.
Called Mat by all who knew him,
though his names were really Ernest
William, E. W. Harris, for 47 years a
member of The Bulletin’s mechanical
staff, had a happy, useful retirement
brought to a sudden end through his
death last week while shopping in his
home suburb of Burwood (N.S.W.).
Transferring from The Bulletin in 1924,
Mat was joint creator, with H. K. Prior
and Bert Toy, of the “Australian
Woman’s Mirror,” and was its produc-
tion-chief throughout his active working
career. Much more than a printer, he
was writer, too, specialising in sport
(especially cricket) and gardening, con-
tributing hundreds of pars to both
Bulletin and “Mirror.” As “Mirra-
flores” and under other pen-names he
MAT HARRIS, as Prior knew him.
did gardening-notes for the “Mirror”
for 25 years. Mat retired in 1946, but
kept writing for both papers, thus com-
pleting 50 years’ association —one of the
cheeriest souls either paper ever knew.
Bulletin men will also miss Charles
Darragh, who died suddenly in Sydney
the same morning as Mat Harris. This
paper’s outdoor circulation representa-
tive, Charlie was on jocular terms with
every newsagent and streetseller in the
metropolitan area. He hailed from Vic-
toria, where his father was a hotelkeeper
in various parts, and it was in these
that Charlie developed his outstand-
ing characteristic —a brimming geniality
and a willingness to do everybody a good
turn. A champion swimmer, he was
a Bondi Iceberg, one of those hardy souls
whose idea of a good time is to plunge
into the breakers on a winter’s dawn.
In his day he was an enthusiastic foot-
baller and belonged to that small group
of one-time Yarrasiders at 252 George-
street who never weary of extolling the
virtues of the Australian code.
Another substantial achievement can be
credited to S. G. Holland, counterpart of
Bob Menzies in Maoriland —the speech
which Dubois caught him making at the
N.Z. Association’s luncheon in Sydney
S. G. HOLLAND, M.L.’s Opposition
Leader.
, _ . _ , .
recently. Serious-faced and pugnacious,
Holland told assembled exiles how far
along Control Road Maoriland had been
. „ „ + i
dragged, relieving the grim story with
a droll wit, deftly inserted and unpre-
ceded by vocalised italics to point the
joke. He is a born New Zealander, a
r,- _i? ijr ,i iii n _ TT j „ r,.
Digger of World War II and a first-class
platform figure. When he contested the
1943 elections the result was SO close
that, speaking to the crowd in Willis-
,i- ° I, „•
street, Wellington, at 11.30 on polling
night, Prime Minister Fraser despondently
declared that a change of Government
seemed imminent. The soldiers’ vote
saved the Socialists 1 bacon ; four Maoris
performed the same office last time.
Frank WHnbt has, blown a Inntr wav
Frame wngnt nas mown a long way
since he was bandmaster of Ballarat s
brass. Now professor of military-band
conducting at Guildhall School of Music,
he was for 15 years musical director for
t a
London County Council, and, completing
the full circle, returns to his home-town
to judge its band contests in October.
It’s a Inmr sten from FJnntrnrm MiUtnrv
~ a - ®,, p irom Uuntroon Military
College to Canton, but Group-captain
W. J. Duncan can tell all about it. A
couple of years after graduationdie trans-
ferred to the R.A.A.F., then in 1927
switched to the Civil Aviation Depart-
ment and went to New Guinea; back
to the R.A.A.F. for another four-year
term, then off to New Guinea again, this
time to grow coconuts Hfp
lime to grow coconuis. Fie was Still
among the nuts when the war came and
he lost no time getting into uniform,
With the R.A.A.F, he served in the
Middle Fast nc S Afi nf Desert Air
Miacne East as A.U. ot Desert Air
Force and C.O. ot R.A.A.F. Liaison
Office ; then came a third spell in New
Guinea—as S.A.O. First Tactical Air
Force under Air Commodore Scherger.
• • „,i ttxtti \
Aftei the war Duncan joined U.NJR.R.A.
and went to China as regional officer in
Kiangsi province. When U.N.R.R.A.
folded up he was chief distribution-officer
for South China, and Dr. Soong took him
, • r . , , & . „ ,
° n as adviser on food problems in Canton
and Swatow areas. Recent changes in
China have so far left Bill Duncan un-
disturbed.
Thomas Snotswood rrdWtc Hip ninth
i nomas spotswood collects the ninth
award ot the Masson Memorial Scholar-
ship from the Australian Chemical Insti-
tute. He owns to a B.Sc. from Tassie
Uni.; this is the first time the Speck
h aS landed the award, contested from all
States.
Just tallied 21 years as superintendent
of the Central Methodist Mission
(Maughan Church) in Adelaide. Rev.
Samuel Forsyth, 0.8. E., whose radio-
voice is known through the land, A
preacher for 40 years, and chairman of
directors of SKA, in the depression he
founded Kuitpo Colony, a farm which
reclaimed thousands of single unemployed
and which is still salvaging wrecked lives.
Maughan is claimed to be the only
church in the Empire with a wireless
station on the premises.
Recently returned to Melbourne, Isaac
Michael Cohen, R.P., R. 0.1., an early
winner of the Vic. National Gallery
Travelling Scholarship who settled in
London. Sixty-five, he has won silver
and gold medals of the Paris Salon, is
member of the Royal Society of Painters
and has works in overseas galleries anc
a full-length portrait of John Monash in
the National Gallery in Melbourne. His
father, known as “Mike the Cook,” was
a celebrated Ballarat chef in the days
when three-course meals cost sixpence
Victoria’s Director of Education
Major-General Alan Hollick Ramsay, £
Digger of both wars, is only the second
teacher to be appointed to that top edu-
cation post. Former principal of Mel-
bourne Boys’ High School, where he was
a student nearly 40 years ago, he was
junior teacher at Brighton School when
he got into World War I as a gunner,
served four years overseas and returned
as a lieutenant. In the 1939 shindy he
commanded the Ninth Div. Artillery in
the M.E., ending up G.O.C. Fifth
Division in New Guinea, having
garnered in a D. 5.0., C.B.E. and C.B.
Before he started on his new job he went
to the U.K. for two months to study the
new British Education Act and meet
leading educationists.
Thousands of Mallee children lost a genial
Father Christmas when ex-Lord Mayor Ray
Connelly died suddenly last week in Melbourne.
He opened the nippers’ holiday-camp at
Portsea, and was the life and soul of it. The
biggest L.M. Melbourne ever had —he stood
six-feet-one in his socks and weighed 16 stone —
he learned his pothooks in 12 schools, including
Xavier College, went jackerooing on his father’s
station on the Darling Downs, opened a grain
store at Moreland, was crowded out by the
Wheat Pool, took on motor-transport and
formed Latrobe Motors and founded the “drive-
yourself” movement. He had been round the
world three times, and in England before Mel-
bourne’s Centenary celebrations he got Tom
Fairburn to come out and produce “Hiawatha,”
with 2000 voices and full Indian warpaint, at
the Exhibition Building. The knighthood came
during Connelly’s third term as First Citizen;
his last major effort, and one of his best, was
his work in Melbourne’s Olympic Games
campaign. Last week he celebrated the first
anniversary of his second wedding. He was 53.
Into the Silence:
At Dalby (Q.), at 69, Edward Geisel, aider-
man, and the oldest active businessman in
Dalby. Born at Branch Creek, a step outside
the town, he opened his general store in 1902.
Dalby Council knew him for 30 years.
At 83, in Melbourne, George Louis Goudie,
member of the Victorian Legislative Council for
the North-western province. A storekeeper and
farmer at Hopetoun, he entered politics in 1919,
was Minister for Public Works in the second
Lawson-Allan Ministry and held office under
Peacock, Stanley Argyle and Dunstan. He was
a pioneer farmer of the Mallee with an immense
confidence in its future; and was so esteemed
in his electorate that nobody thought to oppose
him for 30 years.
In Rangoon, Lt.-Cdr. E. H. Drew, R.A.N.V.R.
A Melbourne man, he flew in World War I
with the 4th Squadron, A.F.C., and in the
next served afloat as an engineer in the R.A.N,
His brother is M.L.A. for Mentone.
Outside Adelaide, in a bad motor-smash,
Norman Brookman, Southern District represen-
tative in the Leg. Council. A farmer with
advanced ideas on the association of science
with agriculture, he did good work in picking
land for soldier-settlement. An Old Digger
himself, he had three sons in World War II;
one of them now holds the Alexandra seat.
At Christchurch (M.L.), at 81, Thomas Reese,
one of the original boys at Christchurch Boys’
High School. He had been a man of mark in
the business-world of the Flat City, a notable
cricketer and author of two volumes on the
game from the earliest days till 1933.
In Melbourne, at 57, Keith Lee Roberts, a
director of Myers, president of the British Music
Society for years, and executive of the city’s
Philharmonic Society. A Maorilander, he was
schooled in England, and was with the B.E.F.
in World War I.
In Adelaide, at 74, Dr. Thomas Brdwne, a
legal light of that city for many years. He
was a teacher in N.S.W. and W.A. before leav-
ing Adelaide Uni. with a Law Doctorate, and
practised with former Senator A. J. McLachlan
C An F.A.Q. Australian ) and the present Chief
Justice, Sir Mellis Napier.
In Melbourne, at 59, Kenneth Syme, grazier
son of the late J. C. Syme, of the “Age.” K.S.
served, in the 1914 war, and in the next one flew
thousands of miles in the Pacific inspecting sites
for aerodromes.
In Adelaide, at 61, Arthur Dewar, who, as
ship-surveyor of the Port for years, assessed
collision and berthing damage to all ships
using it. An Old Digger of the 27th Battalion.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The gay, lilting music of Von Flotow’s
“Martha,” the second of the National
Theatre’s presentations, had a pleasing
response from the large first-night audi-
ence. The Premier was there with his
wife, she in a Paisley-patterned gown in
dark- and pale-blue tonings and a full-
length dyed-ermine coat. The Knox
lady, in black gown and fur wrap, was
accompanied by her daughters, Mrs.
Henry Steele, whose aqua-blue gown had
gold sequin trimmings, and Pamela,
wearing a deep-blue taffeta gown con-
trasted with cerise taffeta on the skirt and
bodice, Mrs. Howard Buchanan’s black
crepe romaine gown was worn with a hip-
length fur cape. Powder-blue was the
shade favored by both Mrs. Rupert
Downes and Mrs. Garnet Carroll. The
Mackey lady covered her brown cloque
gown with a sable cape. Mrs. Dale Holy-
man’s gown was of green brocade. A
leopard coat covered Mrs. H, B. Ogilvie’s
black velvet gown; her daughter, Mrs.
Redvers Dunbar, who is on a visit from
England, combined Chartreuse crepes and
blue-fox fur. The National Theatre’s
director, Gertrude Johnson, wore a white
satin gown and full-length black velvet
coat.
E. R. Reynolds and lan Potter were
hosts at a luncheon party held at the
Oriental Hotel to give representatives of
the Press and Radio the broad outlines of
the intensive campaign designed to enlist
public sympathy in the British Memorial
Fund. This will be held for one week
beginning tomorrow. May 12. Under
this Memorial Fund scheme, which Mr.
Reynolds described as a “Rhodes Scholar-
ship in reverse,” representatives of
women’s institutes in Britain, workers’
educational associations, youth clubs,
trade-unions and young-farmers organi-
sations, would be eligible to visit Aus-
tralia. The British Memorial Fund
scheme, which aims at collecting
£300,000, will commemorate in perpetuity
by endowed visits, fellowships and
scholarships the noble part played by
the British people in gaining the victory
in the last war and will be an enduring
tribute to Britain from the people of
Australia. The Fund is registered under
the Companies Act, and its trustees in-
clude Sir Edmund Herring, the Acting
Governor, and Lady Herring. Donations
of £1 or more may be sent to the office
of the fund, at 83 William-street, Mel-
bourne.
Mr. and Mrs. F. R. Lee, of Toorak,
celebrated the engagement of their
daughter Bunty with a party to which
came more than 50 of her young friends.
Bunty served in the W.R.A.N.S. during
the war. Her fiance, Captain Kenneth
William Newton, M.C., son of Mr. and
Mrs. W. E. Newton, of Essendon, was
captain of Wesley College before enter-
ing Duntroon Military College, and was
awarded the Military Cross for gallantry
at Wewak during the New Guinea cam-
paign. He is now adjutant of the 58-32nd
Battalion. Bunty’s engagement-ring is a
ruby set in a diamond cluster,
St. John’s, Toorak, was the venue for
the wedding of Phyllis Angela, only
daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Norman Dale,
of Hamilton, and Antony John Merivale,
son of the late Dr. and Mrs. Cyril Shep-
herd, formerly of Darling Point, Sydney.
The fitted bodice of the bride’s gown of
magnolia satin was pearl-encrusted, with
the pearl embroidery repeated on the
cuffs of the long sleeves and at the waist,
from which fell a separate panel to form
the long train, bordered at the end with
pearls. The long tulle veil was held by
a pearl coronet. The bouquet was of
tuberoses and cream roses. The brides-
maid, Bunty McDonald, wore a bouffant
frock of amber tulle over moire taffeta.
The tight-fitting bodice had a slight off-
the-shoulder neckline and tiny sleeves.
Her picture hat of matching tulle had a
wide brim and softly-swathed crown ; she
carried a sheaf of large chrysanthemums
in a pale-amber shade. Neville Manning
came from Sydney to act as best man.
Peter Fraser and John Wertheim were
ushers. Reception was held, at the Toorak
home of Mrs. Simon Fraser. In receiv-
ing the guests. Dr. and Mrs. Dale were
assisted by the ’groom’s sister, Mrs. Rex
Madoc, who shortly afterwards left in
the Orcades for her home at Malta. A
French-blue fine woollen frock and
jacket were worn by Mrs. Dale with a
deeper-blue feather-trimmed hat and
accessories.
Fourteen Old Girls of Sacre Cceur
School made their curtsey to the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. J, S. Disney, at the annual
At Home of the Sacre Cceur Old Girls’
Association held at St. Kilda Town Hall.
All wearing individual white gowns, the
debutantes pinned gardenias in their hair
and carried small posies of the same
flowers mixed with tuberoses. The Lady
Mayoress was received by committee
president Mrs, L. R. Buxton in a silver
lame gown and white ermine coat, and
committee members Mrs. F. M. Bladin,
whose deep orange-toned velvet bodice
was allied to a lighter-toned tulle skirt,
and Mrs. H. van Assche, who wore a
black tulle sari with her black tulle gown.
A presentation posy of deep-crimson
roses was an excellent foil for Mrs. Dis-
ney’s trained gown of white-embossed
velvet; her hip-length jacket of matching
velvet had bronze and green leaves em-
broidered on the full-length sleeves. Mrs.
Harry Sims’s gown of white tulle was
starred with gold sequins; a ruffled frill
outlined the sleeveless bodice. Mrs. W.
Dixon’s aqua-blue moire taffeta gown
had the skirt draped into a bustle. Among
the young dancers were Beverley Buxton,
in pale-blue corded silks ; Yvonne Whit-
tam, whose green silk taffetas, shot with
bronze, were trimmed with green sequins ;
her sister Patric, white guipure lace out-
lining the hem and sleeveless bodice of
her black-velvet gown. Mrs. Ross Bat-
ten’s gown of red velvet had a band of
white ermine bordering the strapless
bodice. Mrs. Geoffrey Kiddle’s pale-lilac
tulle gown sparkled with gold sequins.
Peggy Ray, subject of this John War-
low study, is one of the original mem-
bers of the Tin Alley Players. After
graduating in medicine she left the
M.U.D.S. to join the Tin Alley Players.
Peggy’s next appearance with the players
will be as Grandma Flint in Noel
Coward’s “This Happy Breed,” which will
be presented at the Union Theatre on
May 26 and the following two nights.
In private life Peggy is the wife of Dr.
John Ray —they have twins (a boy and
a girl) and an elder son.
The two days spent in Melbourne by
Beryl James (“Miss Australia”) before
she left for London in the Orcades were
very busy ones. She paid a visit to the
Legacy Club and saw the girls and boys
in their clubrooms ; went to the premiere
of “Blue Lagoon” ; saw the film in which
her wardrobe- is displayed; and was
guest-of-honor at a luncheon given at the
Australia by Mrs. Wallace Mitchell. Also
travelling in the Orcades are several
well-known Melbourne girls and women.
Sisters Bettine and Nancy Burgess are on
their way to London; Mrs. lan Potter
left for a seven-months holiday; Mrs.
Leo Curtis will be joined in London by
her husband; Mrs. Tony Fairbairn left
with her husband, and Helen Chambers
accompanied her mother. Annabelle
Murdoch is making for Dublin for the
Horse Show, and Lucy Canny will also go
across to Ireland for that historic event.
The various striking nautical effects in
the decorations for the Coral Sea Ball
at St. Kilda Town Hall included a life-
boat massed with flowers set in the foyer
and on the stage, with a life-size “sailor”
standing guard over the proceedings, and
with the orchestra in white jerseys and
white sailor caps. The Federal president of
the Australian-American Association, R.
G. Casey, and his wife, who was the ball
committee’s president, received the
guests; she -in a gown of black lace
which had a very full skirt. The U.S.
Consul-General, S, J, Fletcher, and Mrs.
Fletcher were in the official party. Mrs.
Fletcher’s royal-blue crepe gown was
decorated on the shoulders with colored
sequins. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S.
Disney, wore a gown of silver peau d’ange
metal and a blue-fox jacket.
Mrs. Harold Rabling’s white crepe
romaine gown had the bodice heavily
embroidered in crystal and silver
beads. Mrs. W. W. Killough’s dove-
grey chiffon gown had a bodice cut
with a wide bertha collar. Mrs. Wesley
Ince’s tailored gown was of heavy black
crSpe. The white satin gown worn by
Mrs. Everard Baillieu had an off-the-
shoulder drape which was closely beaded
in crystal.
From Sydney
The Australian-American Society cele-
brated the victory of the Coral Sea battle
with a ball last Wednesday night. This
was not on the large scale of the ball of
other years which had been held at the
Trocadero, but was a dinner dance at
Prince’s, The scene was all gaiety and
animation from eight onwards. Flags
and flowers were the only decorations, and
this is to be commended —nothing could
be more significant of the great sea battle
than the flags of America and Australia
rising from low bowls of white flowers on
each table. In fact, the whole of Prince’s
was vibrant with flags, from the stars
and stripes of America and the starry
emblem of Australia, large size, which
greeted the guests at the foot of the
stairs.
All the women wore their best frocks,
the place gleamed with satin and glittered
with lame, every second woman wore a
lace scarf around her shoulders. Some
arrived with them gracefully draped about
their heads, as did Mrs. Florence Taylor,
president of the Women’s Section of the
Australian-American Society. Hers was
of fine black lace, and her black frock
was bestarred with diamente. There was
an absolute parade of silver-fox capes
broken across by a knee-length of ermine
worn by Mrs. Stanley Crick. A Christ-
ian Dior model of palely-gold satin was
worn by president of the ball committee
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere. The very full
above-the-ankle-length skirt swept almost
to the ground at the back. The bodice
was cut into a V-neckline and had slim-
fitting sleeves ending just below the elbow.
President of the Australian-American
Society Conrad Horley and his wife
helped to receive the guests; her full-
skirted frock of white taffeta had
varied colored rings lightly stencilled
on it. In the official party were
America’s Consul-General Orsen Neilsen
and Mrs. Neilsen —her frock a graceful
confection of black tulle. In this group,
too, were. Admiral Moore and Mrs.
Moore, and Lieut-General Berryman
and Mrs. Berryman—her draped frock
of hyacinth-blue satins was among the
admired Air Vice-Marshal J. P.
McCauley and Mrs. McCauley. Miss
Annis Parsons, in black Chantilly lace
and taffeta, and Bulletin’s cartoonist
Ted Scorfield and his wife were among
the dancers.
Lots of votes were cast for Mrs. Alexis
Albert’s white taffeta frock, with its over-
skirt of bronze tulle. In Mrs. C. W.
Keighley’s party were Mr. and Mrs.
Roland Foster. He received many con-
gratulations on his just-published book of
memoirs —Come Listen to My Song.
Also in this group was Mrs. Keighley’s
daughter, Mrs. Adrian Quist. Flashing
past in the dance were noted Mrs. Gordon
Johnstone’s square-cut rhinestones which
bordered the neckline of her pale-blue
brocades, Mrs. Robert Paterson’s coral-
pink and silver lame and Susan King’s
candy-striped taffetas.
The liveliest spot in the city last week
was the Assembly Hall in Margaret-
street. Here the Country Women’s Asso-
ciation’s 27th Annual Conference kept
1000 women busy airing the needs not
only of their own corners of the State
but often of the community generally.
A particular point for which all must cry
“Hurray!” was their demand for better
railway services. But that was just one
of many proposals on an agenda which,
covering education, economics, health
and transport, kept these alert women
busy from Tuesday to Saturday.
President Mrs. G. L. Brooks’s
opening speech made the listener
wonder again why women aren’t
entrusted with the finance of the country
at large. C.W.A.’s present assets total
£250,000, and in the 27 years of its
existence it has donated about £346,000
to other associations. It maintains holi-
day-homes, hostels, tearooms, baby health
centres and libraries throughout country
districts. Here a few handclaps should
go to Mr. D. G. Molesworth, who, for
25 years, has been honorary finance ad-
viser to the C.W.A. The ladies didn’t
forget the Jubilee, and one of the star
events of the opening afternoon was the
handing over to him of three pewter
tankards. The 25 years of her devoted
service as president of Keera House com-
mittee, the C.W.A. holiday-home at Dee
Why, was recognised by the presentation
to Mrs. Colin Venn of a crystal rose-
bowl and gorgeous flowers.
The foundation president of the
C.W.A., Mrs. Hugh Munro, made speech
of thanks to Minister for Agriculture,
E. Graham, who opened the conference.
Re-elected for their third term of office
—both Mrs. G. L Brooks (State presi-
dent) and Mrs. W. F. Satchell (Hon. State
treasurer).
To open a three-months drive to raise
£lOO,OOO for the Spastic Centre, Mosman,
a meeting of the Centre’s Honoraries will
be held at the Trocadero this afternoon.
Immediate' need is the building of a
hostel. After the outlining of the Coun-
cil’s plans there will be afternoon-tea.
Honors for the night’s best speeches
went to the women at the Fort-street
High dinner. This was a mixed Old Boy
and Old Girl affair. It was held at the
Wentworth, and general opinion is that
the hotel had excelled itself. Cheering
prologue to the dinner was a sherry-
sipping accompanied by savories made
by one of Fort-street old-girls. Decora-
tions, red roses and greeny fern, were
the work of another ardent ex-Fortian.
The only non-Fortians in the assemblage
of 300 were Premier McGirr and Mrs.
McGirr, and Minister for Education
Heffron and his wife. Mr, Justice Simp-
son presided and read a cable-message
from our Minister-at-large, Doctor Evatt,
himself an ex-Fortian. Miss Bannon,
lecturer in English and warden of the
girl students at the Teachers’ College,
made a speech, witty and pretty, propos-
ing Fort-street staff, past and present.
Her speech lost no points from the
speaker being in graceful white taffetas
and wearing gardenias in her hair. Miss
Turner’s response was given with equal
verve, and headmistress of Fort-street
High, Fanny Cohen, added her quota of
sparkling words'. Two of the guests
were dyed-in-the-wool Fortians. One,
Mr. W. F. Day (92), flew from Wagga
to attend the dinner. Another “old”
boy was Mr. James H. Whipp (87), of
Vaucluse. The grand finale in the Cen-
tenary celebrations was the ball at the
Trocadero, when over 1600 Fortians
attended.
Teacher of ballet Frances Scully has
lined up a list of parties for visiting
inter-State teachers of dancing, Linley
Wilson, who has the largest school of
dancing in Perth, and famed Jennie
Brenan, of Melbourne. These three
teachers form the Overseas Advisory
Committee of the Royal Academy of
Dancing, London, and are the representa-
tives of the academy in Australia.
Here is a Norton Trevaire photograph
of Sally Saalfeld, whose father is Lieut. -
Col. Saalfeld (British Army), retired since
the last war. Sally, who is in her second-
year arts course at Sydney University,
is keen on music and languages. She
is also a keen yachtswoman. Last year
she won the VJ (Vaucluse Junior) East-
ern Suburbs Championship, when she
skippered, with her mother as the
crew. This year she was the crew in the
winner of the VS State Championship
—the Sea Fever. Sally recently announced
her,engagement to John McLeod, who is
in his fourth, year of medicine. He is
the son of the Hector McLeods of
Strathfield.
Last Monday the Lunch-time Music
Club gave its 127th concert in
History House. On the programme was
a trio for piano, violin and ’cello. The
players were Gwen Aldis, Arthur Aldis
and Kitty Smith. Kitty, who played the
violin, a pretty and graceful girl whose
father is well-known violinmaker A. E.
Smith, had herself made the violin and
’cello used in this performance. She is,
as far as is known, the only woman
violinmaker in the world, and she was
invited to send one of her violins to
Amsterdam for the World Exhibition to
be held next month. Miss Smith has
already complied with this invitation, and
would have attended the Exhibition but
for much work in Australia.
Big excitement in Sydney today is the
arrival of singer Marjorie Lawrence, who
comes under J, C. Williamson manage-
ment. But Marjorie will not lift the
glorious voice in song in this city till
June,
Conservatorium singing teacher Roland
Foster is quite excited over his own
debut as an author. His publishers,
Collins, and booksellers, Angus and
Robertson, are doing him proud, too. A
whole window of A. and R.’s is dressed
with the book, Come Listen to My Song,
and highlighted with signed photographs
of many of the singers and musicians
mentioned.


economical «, U MMj* «"
iH
Become a member of Hutchinson’s Universal Book Club,
and promptly at the beginning of each month, the selected
book will be posted to you. A six-months subscription is
£l/1/-, and 12 months subscription is £2/2/-. Both Post
Free!—or, you may join on a pay-as-you-read basis, by
paying 3/6, plus 3d. postage, monthly, upon receipt of each
book. The books are by such famous authors as Naomi
Jacob, Rafael Sabatini, Philip Gibbs, Peter de Polnay,
Philip Lindsay, Denis Wheatley, and many others. Each
book is a current best seller of standard size and quality,
and would normally cost much more.
Send enrolment form now or you may, if you wish, enrol
through a bookseller.
ANOTHER ADVANTAGE
Members may obtain any of the previous selections, still in
print, by forwarding 3/6, plus 3d. postage, for each book.
A list of previous selections is forwarded to all members.
HUTCHINSON'S UNIVERSAL BOOK CLUB
Hutchinson House, Cnr. Collins Place & Flinders Lane, Melb., Yic.
I wish to join your club and enclose & subscription.
NAME
ADDRESS.
BC6/10
SB.
HUTCHINSONS
book club
“If wishes were horses
Beggars would ride."
OLD PROVERB.
mm
z
t
won't get you
what you want . . SAVING mu
If it were only a matter of wishing we would all be millionaires
. . . but wishful thinking has never produced results, and it
never will. By SAVING you can be sure of building up the
funds you will need to enjoy the kind of future you have
planned.
There’s nothing really difficult
about saving—once you make a
start. Even small sums saved
regularly from your pay en-
velope soon become worthwhile
amounts. If carefully invested,
interest payments increase the
sum still further. You won’t miss
the money you’ve saved, and
you’ll be surprised how quickly
your funds accumulate.
With conditions as they are to-
day, there’s no better time to
save than now. High prices and
shortages make it difficult or un-
wise to buy anything but absolute
necessities.
When you buy essential goods
only, and cut out careless spend-
ing and extravagances of all
kinds, you’ll find that saving is
easy. You’ll be well on the way
to seeing your wishes fulfilled.
Wish for the future by all means,
but, at the same time, start a
saving plan now .
FOR THE
FUTURE YOU WANT
SAVE THIS WAY
1. Buy only what you really need.
Avoid luxuries. Get full value.
2. Buy for cash always.
3. Settle your debts—then pay
your way.
4. Join a National Savings
Group.
5. Build up your Savings Bank
Account.
6. Invest in Commonwealth Loans.
7. Increase your life assurance.
Authorised by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
N 538.113.49
THE SERVICE MAN
Advances in China.
“Ek Dum”: There seems to be
no shape to news-stories of what
is happening in China. With its
poor communications, its teem-
ing population, its canals and
waterways criss-crossing the line
of advance and the fields of
battle of the 3tt3cking Com-
munists, everything is disjointed
and the picture is as if painted
on a wet sheet flapping in the
w * nc *-
The fall of Hangchow with-
out a blow worthy to be called
a blow being struck cut off the
last hope of succor for the deni-
zens of Shanghai. It cut the
single-track railway—some of
which had been destroyed in the
Japanese war—to Hsiang-t’an
and Canton and Hong Kong. It
gave the invaders control of the
most important highway centre
of the Shanghai area, blocking
off approach by road from all
directions west and south.
By May 5 all traffic out of
Shanghai was immobilised, the
trains of the main southern line
stopping furthest at Kashing
(Chia-hsing) for which a substan-
tial battle was taking place. And
though there were said to be
“millions” of Nationalist troops
in the area, they showed no en-
thusiasm for battle against the
Communists, who were closing
in from all directions.
The, position was not helped
by the news that after his war-
like exhortations last week
Chiang Kai-shek had betaken
himself in a Nationalist warship
to Formosa, there to settle down
for life, it was reported, on the
peaceful shores of the lake
which is called The Pool of the
Sun and Moon.
The Communists are now on
the northern fringes of the red-
soil area which lies south of the
Yangtsz and between that river
and the coast covering virtually
the whole of central China, This
great tract of country, about the
size of Queensland, has three
main road systems, one some
distance in from the coast with
feeders to several main ports —
Ningpo, Wenchow, Foochow,
“Chuck us your chipptng-hammer — here's an enormous
funnel-web spider !”
Amoy, Swatow. The second,
further inland, with linkages
both to the sea and to the west,
follows the railway from Shang-
hai to just south of the great Po
Yang lakes which lie on the 116-
118 degrees of longitude and just
“North of 28” * — northern
hemisphere. The third system
runs southwards from Hankow
through Changsha along the
main Canton line. All systems
converge on the Canton-Hong
Kong area, to reach which the
advancing Reds have about 1000
miles to go from any point on
their fronts. *
Summer, of course, is coming
in fast. The weather in parts of
the area is normally wet next
month. Generally speaking, the
rainy season over the whole of
central China is between May
and September. The country in
the main is fairly hilly when
once the Invaders leave the
Yangtsz-—first the South Yangtsz
Hills, then the Liang Kwang
Hills, though further west it is
tableland after passing through
the central mountain belt. The
real mountain regions, however,
are not very extensive, the bulk
of the land being below 3000 ft.
The very extensive lowlands are
nearly all rice country, densest
in cultivation along the coast and
in the west towards the river
system.
Population follows the rice
crop and, after leaving the
Shanghai Peninsula, the most
densely populated district in all
China, there is a sort of corridor
of lighter population down
through the centre of the eastern
section of the south with walls
of thicker habitation towards
the river on the west and the
coast on the east.
The advance, however, has
begun to pass the bounds of the
famine area, which coincides
with a large section of the wheat
districts of the north, and is com-
ing into tracts of rich abund-
ance which become richer when
the double-cropping areas are
reached.
There is a very marked differ-
ence in standards of living; the
north has its erratic rains, its
alternate flood and drought, its'
short growing seasons, with mud
villages and wide-street cities and
mules and donkeys.
In the central south there is
abundant rain, always water and
no droughts, mild winters and
steamy summers, a full-year
growing season, bamboos, irri-
gation, water-buffaloes in place
of the mules and donkeys of the
north, and a bigger and sturdier
people, mainly living in woven-
bamboo huts under thatched
roofs. You know you are in the
south when you find yourself in
narrow-streeted cities with the
population in them seething like
flies on a honeypot.
Questions have been raised as
to whether the Communists will
continue their campaign till the
whole of China is absorbed.
They may not continue at once,
since they have a lot to occupy
them in the Shanghai region and
the logistics of a thousand-mile
drive to consider before they
attempt descent on Canton and
Hong Kong. All may depend
on how many sympathisers they
have in an organised condition
in the south.
There is little doubt, however,
about the fact that they will
eventually attempt to engulf the
southern area. Their drive is not
something Chinese. It is inex-
plicable that supposedly know-
ledgeable and “world-famous”
critics of the situation have had
the innocence to suggest other-
wise in the face of the continu-
ous evidence of the utterances by
Dmitrov, as Secretary of the
Comintern, dating back to 1934-
35, and of Manuilsky, as rap-
porteur of the Soviet Union
Communist party in 1939.
The true position is beginning
to be unveiled in the mutual
pledges and agreements ex-
changed between the rebels of
Mao and the North Korean,
Malayan and Burmese Com-
munists who have formed a sort
of Greater East Asian bloc, now
pledged to destroy “British and
American Imperialism in Asia.”
We Australia are “geo-
graphically in Asia” according
to Mr. Calwell and his col-
leagues. And we are also part
of the “imperialism” which
world Communism has sworn to
•destroy.-
Or are we? Anybody who
can declare this country to be in
Asia would have little difficulty
about declaring it to be part of
an Asiatic bloc if occasion


Tenders.
TENDERS are invited for the purchase of
the Crown interest in all scrap ex war
stores and Military property in the British
Solomon Islands Protectorate apart from
material and equipment in use by Govern-
ment and all buildings and building
materials. No inventories exist and the
sale is on the basis of acceptance of the
materials where and in the condition in
which they are found. The successful ten-
derer will have to make his own arrange-
ments for entry into private property.
Tenders should be submitted in two parts,
(a) For all ferrous and non-ferrous scrap
and materials excluding brass scrap;
(b) For all brass scrap per ton exported.
Tenders in respect of part (a) or part (b)
only will not be considered. Tenders
should state proposed terms of payment.
The successful tenderer will be required
to enter into an agreement with the Gov-
ernment of the British Solomon Islands
Protectorate covering all its terms and
including provision for complete clearance
of areas to the satisfaction of Government.
Tenders should be enclosed in sealed
envelopes marked “Tenders Solomon
Islands Scrap,” and should be accom-
panied by a Bank Guarantee to the
amount of the tender.
Tenders should be in the hands of the
Secretary to the Government, Honiara,
British Solomon Islands Protectorate, or
of the Protectorate Agents, Messrs. Burns
Philp & Company, Sydney, not later than
10 a.m. on 31st May, 1949.
The highest or any tender will not
necessarily be accepted.
Missing Friends.
WILL any person who advertised about
October, 1948, for relatives named
WESSEL please write to No. 326, Advt.
Dept., Bulletin Newspaper, Sydney.
ROBERT OAVELL JOHNSTONE,
Deceased.
WILL BARCLAY JOHNSTONE, believed
to be resident in Australia, a son of the
deceased Robert Cavell Johnstone, of 11
Milton Mains Road, Parkhall, Scotland,
and an employee of the Singer Sewing
Machine CO., Clydebank, please communi-
cate with the Subscribers. —KIDSTONS &
CO., 86 St. Vincent Street, Glasgow, Scot-
land, Agents for the Executrix.
TO SYDNEY JAMES HART formerly of
Blyth Street Brunswick in the State of
Victoria Laborer but now of parts un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
EVELYN BERTHA HART of 55 Bell
Street Fitzroy in the said State Married
Woman has instituted proceedings against
you for divorce on the ground of your de-
sertion UNLESS you enter an appearance
in the Prothonotary’s Office Law Courts
William Street Melbourne in the said
State on or before the 6th day of June
1949 the said suit will proceed in your
absence and a decree for dissolution of
marriage may be granted and you may be
ordered to pay costs If you intend to
defend this suit you must also file an
answer in the said office on or before the
16th day of June 1949. —CLEARY, ROSS
& DOHERTY, of 40 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne aforesaid. Solicitors for the Peti-
r M
M
r
There are times which
call for something better than the
merely very good 9 and demand the
unquestionable best. Where —Hdj
cigarettes are concerned the man
of taste is guided by the
words “ Benson & Hedges 9
Old Bond Street , London 99 . From
this famous address comes fine
tobacco perfection to satisfy all those
occasions when only the best will do.
&
P
n
4
My
•“L
a
r
m
m
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KINO
in
tins of
20
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
3
BY
Bensonmd Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
•■ • f
Always within arms reach!
In your home, office, factory,
warehouse, car or yacht, a “Sim-
plex” Fire Extinguisher means
instant fire protection always within
arm’s reach. Just turn it upside
down . . . hose that fire out.
Insurance Companies rebate on
fire rates for buildings equipped
with “Simplex” Extinguishers.
Wormald Brothers have special-
ised in Fire Protection Engineering
since 1889. The advice of ex-
perienced engineers is available on
all classes of fire risk.
All “Simplex ” models comply with
the specifications of the Standards
Association of Australia and the Fire
Underwriters’ regulations. Supplied to
the Navy, Army, Air Force and Com-
monwealth and State Governments.
V
k
•••
"Simplex" Soda Acid Extinguisher. *or
fires in ordinary combustible materials,
"Simplex" Foam Extinguisher. For in-
cipient fires in small quantities of
flammable liquids, greases, etc.
"Simplex" CTC Auto Extinguisher. For
use on motor vehicles and small electrical
fires.
"Simplex" One Gallon Type CTC
Extinguisher. For fires in electrical
equipment such as switchboards.
A Complete range of “Lux” CO2 Fire
Extinguishers is available.
“SIMPLEX”
FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
A Product of WORMALD BROTHERS
PTY. LTD.
Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, Townsville Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin
arose. It is only one step from
saying it is in Asia to saying that
it is in Russia if Communism
swamps Asia.
"Victory" in Berlin.
“Ek D.”: The Russian deci-
sion to lift the blockade on Ber-
lin came in the usual inexplic-
able atmosphere of unreality.
It arose at a time when the
Russians were still arresting
British troops who inadvertently
crossed the thin line which
divides Western Europe from
Eastern barbarism in Berlin and
when Moscow was fulminating
against the Atlantic. Pact in
abusive language. It also came
at the moment when the rele-
vant German assembly at Bonn
was on the point of discussing
the new Western German con-
stitution—which it adopted. It
was helped by an easier atmos-
phere on the part of the West,
which gave way on some points
on which last year it was
adamant.
The only conditions involved
were a discussion by the Four
Great European Powers, whose
Foreign Ministers are to meet in
Paris on May 23, of the whole
problem of Germany’s future
government and of Berlin’s
municipal government, of the
currency question and of the
withdrawal of Allied forces from
Berlin,
Any cheering is a little pre-
mature.
It would be a healthy exercise
for all enthusiasts in the celebra-
tion to turn back the pages of
modern history and study the
other countless occasions on
which Russia has made agree-
ments which have been instantly
broken or which have proved
to have been made for some
new and sinister purpose.
The anxiety of Moscow for
the meeting of the Foreign Min-
isters suggests that it hopes to
turn the meeting into a new pro-
paganda forum which will put
some of the Atlantic Pact nations
in the wrong generally or which
will detach from them the West-
ern Germans. Or it may be
that, having built up a large
Communist military force in
Eastern Germany and infused
into that unhappy and repressed
State large sections of the Ger-
man Freedom armies of Von
Paulus, their main objective is
to achieve the withdrawal of the
British and American troops and
a “unified” Germany which their
German Army and East German
armed Communists would
promptly proceed to take over
from the Rhine westward.
Yet again, it is as likely as not
that their operations may be
connected with the Chinese
Communist moves in Asia,
The open declaration of an
association between the Com-
munists of Mao and those of
Malaya, Burma and Korea has
its significance. Various Eas-
tern radios have suggested within
the past few days that the
Chinese Communist armies are
on their way to both Indo-China
and Burma, bypassing Canton
and Hong Kong and the Chinese
coastal ports.
If this is the fact there need
be little doubt as to the danger
of the situation. The strategic
importance of Burma is enor-
mous.
With India hemmed in on
three sides by Communism and
Malaya dominated strategically
from the North and Indonesia
infiltrated, the peril would be
right on our doorstep.
It is no wonder that Mr.
Chifley’s Government has sud-
denly made the gesture of offer-
ing to co-operate in any way
with the United States for de-
fence and that discussions in
which Australian representatives
have been included have been
taking place in Canada.
The V.C. and Daily
Bread.
“Ek Dum”: Every now and
then one of the Australian dailies
makes copy out of the misfor-
tunes of some winner of the Vic-
toria Cross, and then does no
more about it.
Two cases have been men-
tioned in the past few weeks —
one of a poor, nerve-broken
officer of debonair reputation in
his youth, who was reported to
have been battered in a by-street
on Anzac Day. The other con-
cerned a well-known and good-
natured mountainous figure who
has gone from occupation to
occupation for years without
ever attaining financial security.
It is a shocking commentary
on our methods. The V.C.
carries a small annual monetary
gratuity, fixed according to the
standards of the days of the
Crimea, but it would not keep
a man for a month in a cave
these days,
V.C.-winners are not usually
noticeable for their rude health,
and what health and stability
some of them have left after
gruelling campaigns is usually
com p 1 etely undermined by
months of feting and limelight-
ing forced on them by admirers
and particularly by publicity-
seekers when they come home,
after which they are as often as
not condemned to a struggling
existence.
There are not many of them,
and it is hoped that a long peace
will make them fewer in the
future. Some of them, of
course, are well provided for
and hold high commercial and
service positions.
Not a comrade in the forces
would protest if a system were
established under which any of
them who needed help were able
to apply, without publicity or
means test, to a fund which
would give them a regular in-
come in keeping with the dignity
of their valor and the privileges
which their decorations confer
on them.
It is incongruous to see a man
who is entitled to be saluted by
Field Marshals seeking a charity
job to keep him from the bread-
line. Yet some V.Cs. un-
fortunately are in this position,
and not wholly through their
own faults; often indirectly be-
cause of their own display of
courage and its aftermaths.


Luminous dial
pocket watch, 41'6
• Post-free from Prouds.
A
m
3
'Y/ :> / , is the name of this neat and
z^/c6t£Cy?Z/ attractive watch, made in
U.K. and U.S.A. Nickel-cased, with an
oval loop bow and boldly marked numer-
als and second hand, its main feature is
a luminous dial. This watch is the handy
size to carry in your pocket and will prove
invaluable to nurses and all people who
need an inexpensive watch. 41/6.
ẁ
COBWEB or KIWG AND PIT*
STREETS, ’PHONE BW 2721
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF
TASMANIA—In Divorce.
TO TERENCE HENRY JOHN McKINLAY
whose present address is unknown.—TAKE
NOTICE that a petition has been filed in
this Court endorsed with a notice to you
to appear and answer the charges in the
petition of MAVIS JOAN McKINLAY of
91 Redder Street New Town in Tasmania
Married Woman praying for a dissolution
of marriage on the ground of desertion
In default of your so appearing you will
not be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce judgment
in respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purposes aforesaid
within Thirty days after the date of this
publication an appearance must be entered
at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street,
Hobart.— (l.s.) J. R. REX, Principal
Registrar. N. 8.: Friends of the above-
named Terence Henry John McKinlay who
may see this advertisement are requested
to bring it under his notice. —JOHNSON,
MITCHELL & LAUGHTON, 38 Elizabeth
Street, Hobart, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
TO ALFRED JOHN McGHEE formerly of
11 Burlington Place Adelaide in the State
of South Australia Labourer. —TAKE
NOTICE that a Citation bearing date the
Third day of June One thousand nine
hundred and forty-eight has been issued
out of the Supreme Court of Western
Australia citing you to appear and
answer the petition of PHYLLIS MAUDE
McGHEE of 280 Newcastle Street Perth
in the State of Western Australia Married
Woman praying for a dissolution of mar-
riage IN DEFAULT of your so appear-
ing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to
hear the said petition proved and pro-
nounce sentence therein AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose
aforesaid you are within THIRTY DAYS
after the date of the publication of this
notice to attend in person or by your
solicitor at the Central Office of the
Supreme Court of Western Australia at
Perth and there to enter an appearance
in a book provided for that purpose.
DATED the 27th day of April, 1949.
(1.5.) G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar.
MESSRS. CURRAN & CORSER, of Nos.
35-89 Padbury Buildings, Forrest Place,
Perth, in the State of Western Australia,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman). F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
Q. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Pointings and Sketches.
Whatever it may lack in
weight, there is a freshness about
Sydney Society of Artists’
special exhibition at David
Jones’s Gallery which is a pleas-
ant change from the dark and
turbid masses of oil-paint usually
to be seen at the society’s full-
dress annual exhibition.
It is a show of drawings,
tinted drawings and small sculp-
ture, and it offers two kinds of
works: the drawing that is com-
plete in itself as a work of art
and the sketch meant as a pre-
liminary draft for an oil or
watercolor.
Among the completed draw-
ings Hans has a quarry
full of warm light in spite of the
limitations of black-and-white,
and Arthur Murch has an ex-
ceptionally vigorous crayon por-
trait of a youth. Wallace Thorn-
ton’s “Michelle” is a fine pencil-
study of a girl, and G. d’Olszan-
ski’s “Five-to-Six” is full of life
and beer.
Roland Wakelin’s two line-
and-wash drawings, “Sketch for
Picture” and “The Road,” are
typical of the drawings that look
livelier than the artist’s finished
paintings; for Wakelin’s oils,
though solid, are usually weighty
and sombre, and these little
landscapes almost sparkle.
Orban’s “At the Gate,” grey and
green in colored ink, is another
example.
Other drawings worth noticing
in a show with very few lapses
include Sydney Ure Smith’s
“Miller’s Point, 1906,” John D.
Moore’s “Outside the Sculptor’s
Door,” Paul Beadle’s “The
Suede Waistcoat,” Virginia
Smith’s “Self-portrait,” Ronald
Milieu’s “Redfish,” George Dun-
can’s “The Game’s On At the
Local,” Roy Thibou’s “Hot
Trumpet” and T. J. Santry’s
“Nude” and “Carmel.”
* * * *
Practically all the pictures
that engage attention at the Aus-
tralian Art Society’s annual
exhibition at Sydney Education
Dept. Galleries are small or very
small: which is as it should be,
for there are no great talents on
display and it is better to say
something worth while on a
small scale than to paint largely
and badly. As a whole, the show
is weak. But among the water-
colors there is Elaine Coghlan’s
“An Old Home, Bowral” ; and
among the oils Garrett Kingsley’s
“The Look-Out” and “Land-
scape,” H. Edgecombe’s “The
Corner, Lower Portland,” Clif
Peir’s “Nude,” Stephen Sims’s
“Bunnerong” and —an attractive
group of figures silhouetted
against sunlight—Harry Wann’s
“The Boatman, Pearl Bay.”
v ** * *
The Victorian Artists’ Society
has the right idea in its autumn
exhibition. Everything has gone
in, from the consciously childish
like “The Burial” of J. M. Gill,
to the photographic, such as S.
Antonini’s self-portrait. The
major mystery is why the
society bothers about having a
selection committee at all, since
it could just as well have thrown
out almost everything it put in
and put in almost everything it
threw out without anybody
noticing any difference. A rare
exception is a delicate sketch,
“Near the Fish Market,” by
Lesley Sinclair, which looks as
if the artist had something be-
fore her and had tried to under-
stand it.
Dorothy White.
Beethoven’s answer “Read
Shakspeare’s ‘Tempest’ ” —when
he was asked for the meaning
of his Piano Sonata in D Minor,
Op. 31, No. 2, seemed to have
been borne in mind by Dorothy
White when she played this work
at her Sydney Con. recital last
week. After the bar and three-
quarters of the introductory
Largo she burst into the Allegro
with tempestuousness and a well-
simulated agitation. The slow
middle movement was full of
dreamy introspection, while the
rhythms of the Allegro were
endowed with lilting gaiety.
Mozart’s Rondo in A Minor
was invested with a full mea-
sure of eighteenth-century ele-
gance with overtones of sadness,
and in the Busoni transcription
of Bach’s Prelude and Fugue in
D Major the pianist was able to
build up quite respectable sonori-
ties, with the polyphonies of
the Fugue neatly interwoven.
Debussy’s “Reflections In the
Water” were nicely mirrored,
and in a group of Sibelius
Impromptus the Fifth of Opus
5 brought a rippling cascade of
descending notes in the treble,
beautifully accomplished. Fire-
works were supplied by Khacha-
turian’s Toccata.
* * * *
Sydney Minerva has replaced
Huxley’s “Gioconda Smile” with
a Noel Langley comedy, “Little
Lambs Eat Ivy.” Produced by
Fifi Banvard, of whom the least
that may be said is that she
keeps things moving, the play
makes f.a.q. entertainment and
will be reviewed here next week.
"Eureka Stockade."
The crowd scenes in “Eureka
Stockade” (Sydney Lyceum) are
the best: the scenes where the
troopers (The Joes) rounded up
miners without licences, with
miners running criss-cross across
the valley ; the torchlighted mass
before the pub, and the burning
of the pub; and the battle in
the stockade itself —all these
have the boys in the audience
out of their seats and muttering
“Do ’im!” and other such en-
couragements.
The scenes for part-actors are
only partly acted. The thin and
uninspired dialogue leaves huge
gaps and pauses; and no doubt
it is a good thing to leave half
your play to the actors, but the
director did not bargain on
Chips Rafferty’s monumental
calm, a few drops of which, like
oil on troubled waters, will
smooth any scene flat.
Valuable in quelling the tur-
bulent miners in such scenes as
the burning of the pub, when a
rioting mob suddenly goes com-
pletely silent while Mr. Raf-
ferty warns them against rocking
the boat while their cause is
being pleaded in Melbourne, this
calm is a disadvantage in scenes
with a few mates. Mr. Rafferty
makes a joke; there is a little
dutiful laughter from the mates,
and then an awkward silence.
Then Mr. Rafferty lifts his eyes
to the horizon and says some-
thing sententious about sticking
together, being kind to Governor
Hotham, or the future of Aus-
tralia. Another, more awkward,
pause. Then Mr. Rafferty
strides off to take up his stance
for the next shot.
And this still water made an
excellent mirror for Jane Bar-
rett’s finely-curved marble coun-
tenance, dreaming of the time
when some handsome Prince
might break through the trance
in which Mr. Rafferty had
hypnotised them both, and
wake her up, but not a kiss did
Mr. Rafferty get throughout the
picture, and rightly so.
As little violets in this desert
one might mention John Fern-
side’s bibulous police spy, A 1
Thomas’s drunken Scotch
murderee, Nigel Lovell’s nerv-
ous and precise portrait of a
keen young captain of infantry,
and the suave, controlled Com-
missioner Rede, of the imported
actor. Jack Lambert. Other
well-known actors, like Peter
Finch and Kevin Brennan,
hardly appear, and even then are
only seen peeping over their
beards.
* * * *
“My Dear Secretary” (Syd-
ney Palace): Author of best-
seller (Kirk Douglas) with a
liking for pretty secretaries
finally marries one of ’em (Lar-
aine Day). Mildly amusing with
a good deal of horseplay and
some amiable clowning from
Keenan Wynne,
* * * *
“Winter Meeting” (Sydney
Century): Bette Davis wallow-
ing in some heavy histrionics
about a spinster poet who falls
for a young naval hero. The
naval man is played with ox-
like stolidity by James Davis.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
American amateur collector and
cutter of gem-stones would like to get
in touch with Australian collectors,
cutters and prospectors willing to sell
or exchange rough opal, sapphire,
zircon, agate or New Zealand jade.
Reply direct to Russell P. McFall,
6039 University-avenue, Chicago, 111.
To get in touch with collectors who
have sets of the “Gem” and “Mag-
net” boys’ weeklies, 1904-1914. —
4626.
Information Sought.
(1) Place of origin of the dingo?
(2) When and how did it come to
Australia? (3) Where and when was
it first reported as being seen in
Australia ? (4) To what extent has
it been domesticated, does it hunt in
packs and where does it occur in
Australia ?
(1) Scientific research and geological
observations have proved that the
dingo was not evolved within Aus-
tralia. Its remains are never found
here in the truly fossil state. The
place of its origin remains unknown,
but scientific comparisons have
proved the dingo to be directly de-
scended from the northern wolf type
of canine, probably through an
Asiatic wolf-type and the Indian
wild-dog. (2) It is considered that
the dingo accompanied an influx of
the aboriginal stock during the last
glacial period, in Pleistocene times,
many thousands of years ago, when
the Australian continent was last
connected with New Guinea. Dingo-
like dogs are known to exist in New
Guinea, but so far specimens have
not been obtained for critical
examination. (3) About the Gulf of
Carpentaria by the Dutch explorer
Carstenz, in 1623. At the end of
that century Dampier reported wild-
dogs as associating with the blacks
on the western coast. (4) In North
Q’ld the dingo has been domesticated
even to the extent of being suckled
by the gins. The dingo does not
hunt in packs in the wolf sense, and
the old dogs are usually solitary
hunters, but dingoes will form small
packs at times and work together in
rounding up and cutting out sheep.
They occur over most of the main-
land, excepting parts of the centre
and far-north.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
What income is a married old-age
pensioner allowed per annum and at
what figure does payment of pension
cease ? Must pensioner notify the
authorities if he takes up regular
Work ?
In the case of a married age-
pensioner, the limit of permissible
income, including earnings, is £156
per annum. That amount of income
may be derived in any portion ot
one year. Where the income exceeds
that figure, the pension-rate is reduced
by the amount in excess of £156 per
annum up to £377 per annum, when
the pension is cancelled. A pen-
sioner’s earnings are assessed from
the date on which the employment
commences. Pensioners who com-
mence employment should notify the
Social Services Department stating
full name and address of employer
and weekly rate of earnings,
* * * *
Who are the world’s boxing
champions, in each division ?
World’s boxing champions are:
Flyweight, Rinty Monoghan (Ire-
land) ; bantam, Manuel Ortiz
(U.S.A.); feather, Willie Pep (U.S.A.);
lightweight, Ike Williams (U.S.A.);
welterweight, Ray Robinson (U.S.A.);
middleweight, Marcel Cerdan
(France); light-heavyweight, Freddie
Mills (England); heavyweight, Joe
Louis (U.S.A.). Louis announced his
retirement after defeating Joe Walcott,
and heavyweight title is supposed to
be vacant. American promoters, how-
ever, claim Louis will again defend
the championship.
Brief Answers.
C.K.1.: Write Imperial Chemical
Industries, 251 George-street, Sydney.
R.M.F.: Write South Australian
Museum, Adelaide, for a copy of
Australian Aboriginal Words by H.
M. Cooper; price, Is E. 8.; Diffi-
cult to make at home. Write to a large
department-store in your State for
sparklet bulbs and information as to
use. To make soda-water dissolve
4\ drachms tartaric acid in a quart-
bottle of rainwater and dissolve 6
drachms of finely-crushed bicarbonate
of soda in another bottle of similar
size. Keep these closely corked, and
when required pour an equal quan-
tity from each into a glass and use
while fizzing... .L.X.: Write A. E.
Smith and Co., 9 Hunter-street,
Sydney D. 8.: It is possible to
make a furniture-finish from certain
types of gum copal by dissolving the
gum in a solvent, such as methylated
spirits, removing the dirt and foreign
matter in the gum by filtration, and
adding a plasticiser to prevent the
finish from becoming brittle. Since,
however, there are numerous pitfalls
for the inexperienced in the manu-
facture of furniture-finishes, you are
advised to buy your finish from a
reputable manufacturer A.D.J.: A
new edition will probably be pub-
lished when stocks of the current
edition are exhausted... .5.T.8.:
Write Robertson and Mullens, Ltd.,
107 Elizabeth-street, Melbourne.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS, No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS, should be addressed to the Editor.
J.S.W.: Most despairful story this
week. After reading it, we dimmed
the lights, ordered the refrigerator to
be provisioned, made our wills, filed
our schedules and rang up the under-
taker W.W.: Rejected without a
pang 8.R.: Not a bad idea, but
the story would have to be demolished
and built again P.J.: Merely
echoes, and very faint ones at that.
M.McM.: They contain several
false rhymes, and generally resemble
the earliest efforts of a beginner
R.M.: Hardly enough snap. Try
again and write in ink. Indelible
pencil is hated in this office... .8.A.;
Some grace, but not sufficient skill.
... .Bellerive : Just what we needed
to keep us warm these nippy days: —
J.McP.: That story was in cir-
culation when the First Fleet sailed
through Sydney Heads H.C.:
Why not ring the girl up and ask
her if she loves you? M.M.: Afraid
we can’t buy that dog from you
P.C.C.: No use to us, and you
haven’t gummed on the homeward
postage-stamp R.N.: We washed
away the taste of your tangled tem-
perance rhyme with gin and pepper-
mint G.A.H.: The Bulletin
doesn’t know the record of every
old story that has been printed, but
it has the record of that parson’s
blackboy, and as a story is known
by the company it keeps, the other
story is sentenced to sudden death on
suspicion D.W.: There will be no
remittance T.M.: Racing verse
scratched violently for all engagements.
R.A.; Disfigured by two of the
things we loathe most, viz., poly-
syllables and platitudes 8.H.C.:
With tears in our eyes we assure you
that we don’t want any more
N.D.: The first part is tedious, and
the whole story lacks point G. 8.:
Let this be your last offence
P.A.J.: Story some distance below
high-water mark C.L.S.: Don’t
try to write “The Dying Stock-
rider” all over again T.E.: Your
enthusiasm is very fine, but it is
merely a rhymed catalogue of (1) the
gumtrees (“graceful, shapely”); (2)
mountains (“bathed in sunlight”);
(3) glory of the sunset; (4) breakers
on the shore; (5) warble of the mag-
pies—and other poetical props.
RECOLLECTIONS OF A HEAT WAVE.
Crowds flocked to St. Kilda
By tram and train,
Blazing days wore on
And no sign of rain.
Old folks did loll in
The shade of trees,
Which were unstirred by
The breath of a breeze.


BGPA
to ENGLAND
via U,5,A. or Canada
Reach London in only 4 days
via San Francisco-New York
or Vancouver-Montreal. Flying
the Pacific with BCPA you
enjoy sleeper accommodation
as well as a 9-hour stopover at
lovely Honolulu. At Vancouver
or San Francisco your connec-
tion to London is pre-arranged
to suit your convenience.
Compare the Service
. • . fh e Comfort
. . . and the Route
You gain so much by flying
the "Southern Cross" route
with BCPA. The only health
requirement is a vaccination
certificate. You fly all the way
through English speaking lands,
and BCPA's new low fares to
London or Europe are payable
in Australian currency prior to
brings you
reduced fares
siiffisssKimaiiiiiaiiiissiiis
“BsSr
s.m-m -
m
departure.
Fly the glamour way to London—
across the Pacific in BCPA's luxurious
BCA.U.ItN
Full particulars from your local travel agent or airline booking
office, or BCPA Head Office, 53 Martin Place. Sydney. 'Phone: 8W2741.
ytfii&n&i c£td.
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER
WITH CONNECTIONS AT SAN FRANCISCO AND VANCOUVER TO U.K. AND EUROPB
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIUIiTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20lb.
weight or over ■
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
j^Außßirrsii
jne all-ski nan
iOIWOII
%
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. * Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
Face Facts
40
SHAVING AREA
SQUARE INCHES
It may surprise you to know that
the shaving area of the average man’s face
is 40 square inches; but it is a fact. Every morning
your razor blade must shave one. day’s growth of hair
from the uneven surface of your face.
Such work demands the keenest, strongest edge that
modern research and manufacture can produce.
Men who face facts shave themselves quickly, simply,
and economically by using Blue Gillette Blades.
«s*
o
'Good Mornings begin with Gillette
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
lER FOR 3/- FIVE FOR 1/6
t/m
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
During the next seven years will be
held two Empire Games and two
Olympic Games, with the 1956
Olympic Games in Australia. At each
of these gatherings rowing events will
be decided over the standard Olympic
distance of 2000 metres. Yet, unless
somebody in the meantime can per-
suade Australian rowing authorities
that they and not the rest of the
world are out of step, it seems a safe
bet that 1956 will see Australian
championships still being rowed over
the archaic three-miles journey.
The Australian eight-oar champion-
ship, rowed at Murray Bridge (S.A.)
on Saturday, carried, as well as the
traditional King’s Cup trophy, the
additional plum of selection to rep-
resent at the Empire Games in New
Zealand next year. Fortunately the
N-S.W. crew which won on Saturday
is a splendid crew, and gave the im-
pression that it would beat the same
field at 2000 metres as easily as it
did at three miles. After beginning
rather leisurely, while Westralia was
the early leader, the ’Walers staged
what the horsey gentry would describe
as a well-timed finish over the last
couple of miles or so to win by any
number of lengths from Westralia
and Victoria. Comprised to a man
of ex-Sydney G.P.S. oarsmen, the
N.S.W. crew was stroked by Alan
Brown, who stroked the R.A.A.F.
crew in London a few years back.
Of Merv Wood retaining his sculling
title, suffice to say that his winning
margin was assessed in terms of hun-
dreds of yards.
During the war years, when the tiny
North Coast seaside village of Evans
Head (N.S.W.) was considerably en-
livened by the presence of a large
Air Force establishment, principal
interest in shipping movements on
the local river centred in the pros-
pective arrival of an unpredictable
vessel bearing a precious cargo of
casks and barrels. On Saturday last,
after some years of quiet peace, there
was a renewed interest in the river
when the Far North Coast turned out
in force to watch the local man,
Evans Paddon, defend his World
professional sculling title, once held
also by his father, Jim Paddon.
However, on Saturday the title de-
parted the family fold, being bagged
by George Cook, of Sydney. After
leading early, Paddon lost his ad-
vantage at the last buoy and, folding.
up surprisingly, was beaten by nine
lengths.
* * * »
Almost unanimously, normally ra-
tional and cautious turf writers
went right in off the deep end in
declaring Rio Fe a “certainty” for
the 10-furlongs Moreton Handicap
run at Eagle Farm, Brisbane, on
Saturday. Such phrases as “the bet
of the century” really make one
wonder how much money must be
directed every year into the book-
makers’ pockets by the over-booming
of just-moderate horses.
Rio Fe started a warm favorite
(5 to 4) for the Moreton and, after
striking some little bother very early
in the race, failed dismally. The
Moreton was won gamely by Filipino
—the class horse of the field. With
W. Briscoe in the saddle, Filipino was
always well in the running, hit the
front a furlong from home and hung
on stoutly to defeat Jean Buzzard by
a nose with a further two lengths
separating Lizrene in third place.
Filipino carried 9.5; Jean Buzzard
had 8.6, Lizrene Bst., and the un-
placed Rio Fe 8.6.
In the Moreton Handicap Filipino
carried for the last time the pink,
green braces and green cap of Drs.
S. O’Neil and T. Early, who have
enjoyed a very profitable 12-months
lease of the five-year-old. Filipino
must be, as he looks, as hard as
nails. During the period of the lease
he has won races in four States and
bagged some £12,000 in stakes.
Filipino is a five-year-old horse by
the imported Double Remove, a son
of the English Derby-winner Felstead.
* * * *
At Caulfield on Saturday backers
of favorites experienced a day which
no doubt will encourage them in their
folly for years to come; the popular
picks won the first five races in a
row
The weather represented the alleged
ideal of jumping-enthusiasts, who
were catered for by the Fiscom
Hurdle and the Grafton Steeple, both
run over about two miles. The
double gave leading cross-country
rider Ron Hall a couple of armchair
rides; in each he rode the favorite
and won by lengths. El Regis led
all the way and was under restraint
for the final furlong or so to defeat
Midhurst and Gordon Fox in the
Hurdle —a fine performance under
topweight of 11.3. Jevington, second
in the weights with 10.12, beat
Autocles and Red Rambler in the
Steeple.
Throughout the season trainer F.
W. Hoysted has had a wonderful
trot with the seemingly innumerable
two-year-olds in his charge. Adding
to the list, Hoysted scored a double
at Caulfield, winning divisions of the
Ovens Handicap (6f.) with On Time
(W. Williamson) and Ailsa (L. Lott).
On Time, a Kinderscout gelding,
started favorite at 5 to 2 to defeat
Dusky Rose and Zezette, while, in a
more open-betting race, the Helios
filly Ailsa was a 4-to-l favorite for
the second division and won narrowly
from Prince Ben.
A tip-top bit of horsemanship by
W. Williamson landed punters their
fifth winning favorite when Vantage
defeated the outsider Tearo Silk in
the 12-furlongs Goulburn Handicap.
Other events also went to well-
backed horses. Solray (W. A. Smith),
second favorite at 11 to 2, won the
seven-furlongs Southern Stakes, and
Chievely (B. Eames), one of four
sharing favoritism at 6 to 1 for the
Tambo Welter, gave a good exhibition
in winning under a steadier of 9.2.
* * * *
Whichever end of the field the
hopeful punter may have been study-
ing, the six-furlongs Flying Handicap
at Canterbury on Saturday offered
some fair reversals of form. Con-
sistently disappointing for months
previous, the Nizami four-year-old
Deep Sea hopped straight into the
lead, never looked like turning it in,
and won by three lengths. Second
place was filled by Caruso, who had
also performed poorly at several
recent starts, and third was Riptide,
the record of whose four previous
runs reads: fifteenth, last, fifteenth,
last. Among the unplaced brigade
were four last-start winners, including
Persian Prince, who finished stone-
last on Saturday after winning the
Rous Handicap at Randwick at his
previous outing. Apart from Persian
Prince, punters once again did their
cash on Columnist’s brother Jour-
nalist, who, though fast, appears to
be a pretty useless rogue.
Another to show a return to form,
though it was not unexpected after a
promising run at Randwick recently,
was the aged Midstream horse
Laudus, who made a good fist of
downing Air Flare and Double Gift
in the Canterbury Park Handicap
(9f.). Only seven started in the race,
and Laudus, with A. Ward up, carried
a luxurious topweight of 7.13.
Laudus covered the trip in 1.57.
Winning the Fixed Weight Maiden
Stakes over the same distance, Great
World, also ridden by A. Ward,
clocked 1.55. Great World, who beat
the odds-on favorite Le Frere by four
lengths, is a bay gelding by Beau
Son-Illala.
A somewhat unfair aspect of the
rules of racing which has been spot-
lighted by the recent slather of doping
cases is the question of the status
of the horse beaten by a chemically-
inspired winner. As the rules stand,
the doped winner is disqualified (long
after bets have been settled) and the
runner-up is officially credited with
winning the race. This means that
connections find their horse moved up
a class for restricted-company events,
and bumped up in the weights, with-
out any compensating financial benefit
other than the prizemoney, from
which deduct betting-stakes-done-cold,
etc,
A case in point was Rialto achiev-
ing some compensation by winning
Saturday’s Campsie Mixed Stakes
(Ilf.). In a similar race at his pre-
vious start Rialto had started favorite
and been beaten by Upright, sub-
sequently disqualified. Thus, on
Saturday, Rialto had to carry Bst.
instead of 7.7; now he goes up to
8.7, and two more wins see him out
of restricted company.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
Two-year-old Novice (fillies): Star-
let, 1; Shasta, 2; Magnificent Lady,
3. Three-year-old Novice: Cumnock,
1; Monarchy, 2; General, 3. Juvenile
Novice: Kewzami, 1; Niska, 2; Full
o’ Fun, 3. Carlita Handicap:
Maranga, 1; Grey Nurse, 2; Oasis, 3.
Flying: Riptide, 1; Verbage, 2; The
Groom, 3. Warwick May Handicap:
Menelik, 1; Rialto, 2; Protect, 3.
Moorebank' Handicap: Thrums, 1;
Granite, 2; Bold Archer, 3.
♦ * * *
The 100,000-dollar Kentucky Derby,
run on Saturday, was won easily by
the 16-to-l chance Ponder, who came
with a terrific burst from last to first.
The odds-on favorite Olympia finished
out of a place; he led for a mile,
but the last two furlongs found him
out as a stayer. Ponder is a product
of the very successful Calumet Farm.
Inheriting a huge baking-powder for-
tune, Warren Wright founded Calu-
met, and for some years poured
money into it without much return.
The past few years, however, have
brought their reward; last year
Calumet Farm horses topped the list
with a total stake-earnings of
$1,402,436. A fair slab of that was
contributed by the triple-crown win-
ner Citation, who has now won very
close to a million dollars. Calumet
horses have won four of the last nine
Kentucky Derbies with Whirlaway,
Pensive, Citation and, now, Ponder.
* * * *
Ever a master of the art of under-
statement, the Englishman surpasses
himself when it comes to penning a
letter to the “Times.” A golf addict
shows admirable restraint:
“Sir, —Some years back a friend
of mine, P. H. Morton, a famous
bowler of the 1880 s, was playing on
one of the Bournemouth courses and
holed out in one. The members
standing at the tee said: ‘How did
you do that?’ Morton replied: ‘Like
this,’ and put another ball down and
drove off, again, holing in one. This,
I believe, is a record.”
It may well be, too. At any rate
the note inspired another enthusiast
to cast traditional British sporting
modesty to the winds in a follow-up
letter:
“Sir, —I claim nothing remarkable
about my total of five holes-in-one,
but the fact that three of them were
done in one twelvemonth on the same
course may be somewhat unusual.”
Uncommon, sir, assuredly!
* * * *
’Twas a Saturday of surprises in
V.F.L. games, the mighty falling in
several places, most notably at South
Melbourne, where the locals broke
away in the second spasm apd then
held off the desperately-finishing Mel-
bourne to win by 8.11 to 7.9 S Some-
thing similar happened at Fitzroy,
when Geelong upset tradition and
pretty well everything else by downing
the Maroons, 15.15-13.15. Out at
Essendon the locals encountered Carl-
ton, who left their shooting boots
at home but made it 7.22-6.9, thus
saving the Dons from a heavier
ignominy. A sort of last-man-
standing affair at Hawthorn gave
Collingwood a 9.11-5,10 win; North
Melbourne went to Footscray and
moodily kicked 12.3 in between allow-
ing ’Scray a kick or two which yielded
4.15; Richmond beat St. Kilda,
17.11-11.14.
* * * *
The only pleasure available in
watching the City v. Newcastle Rugby
Union match at North Sydney on
Saturday was of a purely sadistic
nature —suitable for those who would
enjoy watching a scrap between an
18-stoner and an 8-stoner. And it
was something like that, diminutive
Wallaby Cyril Burke for Newcastle
giving the impression that he was
playing the City team single-handed;
even though they gave a pretty feeble
exhibition, the City team beat Burke
and his alleged team-mates 32-3. In
an infinitely .better game at Manly,
City II held Country to a 9-all draw.
* * * *
Welter champion Tommy Burns,
from whom nothing has been heard
for some time, emerged last week to
express lack of interest in a
match with the American Freddie
Dawson, who, it will be remem-
bered, finished Vic Patrick’s ring
career. Quoth Burns:—
“If I want to fight Americans I
can meet them when I am in
America. At the moment I am
interested only in helping the game
here in Australia.”
-Yes, but what game, Tommy?
N.S.W. South Coast flyweight Taffy
Hancock (7.13) again outfought
Jimmy Hogg (7.13) in their return
match at Leichhardt; in fact, Han-
cock won by a wider margin of
points than when he received the
decision late last year. That, at any
rate, was how the fight impressed
present observer, but, lacking official
status, we must report the referee’s
ruling, which was that Hogg had
won. Making Hogg cover and
re-cover every inch of the ring retreat-
ing from his attack, Hancock had
gained such a lead at the end of
round nine that a knockout seemed
the only way he could possibly lose.
Hogg woh the tenth and tried
desperately for a k.o. in the remain-
ing two rounds, but Hancock never
refused a rally and never suffered
thereby. The uproar when Hogg was
declared the winner was louder and
longer than usual even for Leich-
hardt.


For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
A phone call, and A.M.L.&F.’s Merchandise Depart-
ment is in action! Its far-reaching network of
buying and selling contacts gets things done. If
it is humanly possible to purchase, the equipment
you want will be quickly on its way, with no more
4 trouble than it took to
phone, wire or write the
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches—N.S VV.; Newcastle. Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra,
Scone, Moree. Garah. Wee Waa. Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville,
Charleviße. St. George. Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents:
McPhie & Co Pty , Lid , Toowoomba. Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth,
86 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND 1863
request.
A 22.42
i 6 A |S
bkl.lt
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Special
GEM
RAZOR
WITH
Double Life
GEM Blades
Obtainable Everywhere s
COMPLETE
/
3
WITH
BLADES
PLASTIC
IN
NEAT
CASE
mm
trrfCL° Cf L '
irs THE WEIGHT BEHIND THE EDGE THAT
GIVES SMOOTHER, EASIER SHAVES
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Grazing Experiments.
“K.W.R.”: C.S.I.R. recogni-
tion of the importance of
Mitchell grass to the pastoral in-
dustry has led to an extensive,
long-term grazing experiment
which began at Gilruth Plains
(s.-w. Q.) in April, 1941. Pro-
gress results may be summarised
as follows:
1. Mitchell grass has great re-
cuperative capacity following
summer rain, even after a pro-
longed dry period. The only
qualification is that the pasture
must not be heavily grazed
during the period of growth fol-
lowing the rain, and it would ap-
pear that even relatively heavy
grazing at any time after growth
had ceased, i.e., after seeding,
will not deteriorate the pasture,
provided that excessive tramp-
ling is avoided when the surface
is wet.
2. Of the three rates of stock-
ing (one sheep to acres, five
acres and acres under two
systems of management —con-
tinuous and rotational) one
sheep to five acres has given best
results. Under it the pasture
maintained its yield and the
sheep their live weight and wool
production almost as well as
under the light rate of one sheep
to 7 i acres.
Drought interrupted the
Mitchell-grass management trial
from October, 1945, to April,
1947. Following the rain of
February, 1947, the experiment
was resumed on a modified scale.
Observations made since have
confirmed the previous finding
that in maintenance of perennial
grasses on plain country the
time of summer grazing in rela-
tion to the stage of plant-growth
is more important than severity
of grazing alone.
Application of this principle in
another trial meant that follow-
ing the November, 1947, rains
the pasture was spelled for 61
days from December to
February, by which date grass-
growth had ceased. The sheep
remained on the pasture until
March 10, when, following
further rain, general growth of
Mitchell grass occurred. During
this period little damage was
done to Mitchell-grass seedlings,
the sheep preferring the greener
herbage plants, of which wild
mulberry {Malvastrum spicatum )
was an important species.
That Wheat Agreement.
“He-Ne”: As the full impli-
cations of the new International
Wheal Agreement become more
apparent to wheatgrowers their
hostility increases. They now
say that if they are to be com-
pelled to sell cheap wheat by in-
ternational Government action,
then farm-machinery manufac-
turers and jute-growers should
be similarly compelled to sell
cheap products. In a world of
rising prices, farmers are ap-
parently to be compelled to re-
duce the price of their com-
modity while they have to stand
by idly and see their production
costs mounting. “If,” say the
farmers, “we have to sell wheat
cheaply for the next five years it
is only reasonable that
machinery, oil and bags should
be correspondingly reduced for
the same period. If the Chifley
Government has the power to
sell wheat cheaply, then surely it
has the power to see that
farmers’ costs are reduced by the
same ratio as their income is re-
duced.” The point of view may
be impractical in non-farmer
eyes, but it makes sense to
farmers,
“Dick Turpin”: One feature
of the agreement that should be
remembered by Australian
growers is the fact that it has to
be ratified by the U.S. Senate be-
fore it can operate. There is no
such safeguard as far as Aus-
tralia is concerned, the Federal
“Labor” Government apparently
feeling that no further debate is
necessary in the Australian Par-
liament.
Despite opposition of some
growers, there is much to com-
mend an international agree-
ment, but only if it includes all
grower nations and safeguards
growers against any “bootleg-
ging” that might imperil future
security and make present sacri-
fices a dead loss.
As it stands, the Australian
grower was never even con-
sulted ; the Government rode
roughshod over an entire in-
dustry. The wheatgrowers, in
common with other land pro-
ducers, have had their product
confiscated and sold without
reference to its owners. Maybe
this will have some bearing on
the coming elections
Grading Potatoes.
“Rooster”: Early grading is
essential. It’s a bad practice to
stack the bags of “chats” (non-
marketables) in a huge pile for
months on end. By the time you
get round to grading them about
30 p.c. are rotten, another 40
p.c. have withered from over-
grown shoots ; the rest may pro-
vide seed.
In my profit-and-loss accounts
I lose more by stacking or
“pitting” marketable potatoes
than I would by getting rid of
them as they’re dug. Waste is
enormous from sprouting. The
same thing happens to the in-
“He's been makin' friends with that bird for weeks."
ferior grades. That’s why I’m
a strong advocate of dealing
with them as they’re dug.
In grading you’ll need at least
three different classifications:
(a) round seed; ( b ) pig-feed,
which will include scabs, stabs,
grub-infested and ill-shapes;
(e) medium seed. The round
seed should be free from
blemish, sound and not less than
an inch in diameter. If they’re
too small the shoots are liable
to be weak and subject to
disease. The mediums are those
just under marketable Grade 1
size, but which would be ideal
for “cut seed.” The rest could
be used for pig-feed, excepting
perhaps some of the stabs, which
may be utilised for the house.
Round seed and medium seed
should be immediately spread
out thinly on a wooden platform
raised about two feet from the
ground. The floor should con-
sist of battens (3in. x lin.) nailed
about an inch apart. If possible,
choose a tree-sheltered area. It’s
important, too, to place it well
away from stock. To protect
from heavy rains, frosts or un-
seasonable solar heat cover the
seed with straw, bracken-fern,
ti-tree or anything suitable to
hand. But don’t cover too
thickly; allow for proper venti-
lation.
At periods not exceeding a
month remove the covering and
turn the seed over. If the lower
seed shows signs of shooting too
vigorously bring them to the top,
nipping off the longest shoots.
Keep a lookout for blight-
infected seed. It needs only one
to ruin a whole crop. After
heavy rains, provided the sun
isn’t too hot, remove the cover-
ing to permit maximum airing.
Every third year it is also ad-
visable to obtain fresh seed.
Third - or fourth - generation
tubers are apt to decrease both
in size and numbers, despite
heavy artificial manuring.
Worm-control in Pigs.
“G. Runter”; Under tropical
conditions parasites of the pig
will produce two or three genera-
tions in the time taken to pro-
duce one in a cold climate,
though the pig takes just as long
to reach bacon weight. Worm-
control should be based on two
important facts: (1) the enor-
mous killing-power of the sun,
(2) the inability of the worm-egg
to survive if exposed to sunlight
for any time. In all cases the
egg needs a period varying from
two days to 18 in which to reach
the infective stage. This is made
use of under grazing conditions
by keeping a strip 15ft. to 30ft.
wide all round the paddock bare
and loose. Water-trough, self-
feeder (or feed-trough) and shel-
ter-shed (all on skids) are placed
on this bare strip, and nearly all
the worm-eggs will be passed
where they will be killed by sun-
light instead of being swallowed.
Worms inside the pig can be
removed by drugs only if the
right drug is used (and for some
of the dozen species involved
there is no effective drug), and
then only at a certain stage of
travel inside the pig (no drug
can reach worm-larvae passing
through the lungs or heart). Pre-
ventive measure therefore must
have priority.
Wings and the Land.
“K.H.H.”: Some breeders
flew their stock entries to the
Sydney Royal Show last month.
An Albury (N.S.W.) stock-agent
hired an air-taxi to fly to Orange
to look over some stock. Out of
Mullaley (N.S.W.) a grazier
drove a herd of lost steers home
by aircraft—and grumbled be-
cause he could not figure a way
of opening the gate of the home
paddock without smashing up
his kite. The N.S.W. Depart-
ment of Agriculture has used
aircraft against grasshoppers
and reported a 98 per cent. kill.
S.A. Department of Agriculture
saved its linseed crops from pest
damage last summer by spraying
from the air. Commonwealth
Disposals reported that amongst
buyers of aircraft were a num-
ber of farmers. Aircraft have
been used in Victoria for locat-
ing bushfires. Tomatoes picked
in the morning at Dubbo
(N.S.W.) were flown to Sydney
and appeared on tea-tables there
the same evening. This month
a company is to start freighting
cattle carcasses from a station
near Derby (W.A.) to Wyndham
for freezing and direct shipment
to England.
Use of aircraft in farming de-
veloped shortly before the war
in Oklahoma (U.S.A.). It has
become increasingly popular,
not only amongst American
farmers, but elsewhere. Since
the war ended use of aircraft in
agriculture in Australia has
made tremendous steps.
Stockbreeders who flew their
animals to Sydney Show cut
timetables by as much as three-
quarters, and their stock arrived
in better condition than when
subjected to long, agonising
train travel. Eventually farmers
and graziers may be able to get
their produce and stock to mar-
ket in a fifth of the time it takes
now, beating the weather’s
vagaries and helping consumers
and themselves with products in
the bloom. How far this may go
is shown in the U.S.A., where
many farmers already possess
aircraft with controlled cabin
temperatures and insulated con-
tainers for their produce. It
seems as if the man whp occu-
pies himself in one of the world’s
oldest vocations may be also the
man most up to the minute.
Truly the land is entering the air
age, and “pigs might fly” is no
longer a quip.
In Defence of Jerseys.
“Aerogenes”: I cannot agree
with “Rooster” (B. 27/4/’49) in
his judgment on the Jersey as a
producer. The facts, as I know
them, don’t support his conten-
tions that (a) the Jerseys give up
weakly in adverse conditions and
( b ) their production records are


New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest Invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABREBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26b), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
FACING B PORK
The one thing yon will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part ... yet
ft Is merely "round the comer”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all yon would wish
... the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
in
c^ydney-
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and!
tested by over 100.000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
-NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
TRneinecrs, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6. 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
V»n Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
jyjjjTAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
i or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
'Name *
Address
B. 11/5/’49
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 EUwbefli Street* Sydney. MA 7250.
LOWEST-PRICED
ID H.P. SEDAN
IN AUSTRALIA!
f' W* <• 'r - #sr*} '*<•*' swvw-f'f <■ ~ "Mfb
p$T £ '''%" *' # : " W-tjmf'- i
' f* C'' ‘ pff/t*' 4 ' ■
A/ 4
<
%. Xi ■ ■'. < : ' : : : : :
Mfl
v \'
imm
m
m
ft
V.
iiw»
IF**..
I
Is
m
.
Hi
m
i&jisj&Qfc
BIG ENOUGH
plenty of room for Mr. & Mrs. and
the family.
SMART ENOUGH-
for a Business Executive (thousands
use them daily !)
THRIFTY ENOUGH-
to save £ £ £ on cost and
maintenance.
AND RELIABLE—
Iong years of trouble - free
performance.
FPB4O-24
FROM THE
HOME OF FORD
MANUFACTURING IN AUSTRALIA
Your local Ford Distributor or Dealer will be glad to give you full details.
(MB Moron COMWP W MSIM^
1/ ,
m
m.
mK:-
1
ft
AH Ax'*
m
i
'A
■ 4 '-*
am
wm
IT WAS A THRILL
While it lasted!
IT lasted exactly 30 seconds. He knew better than to pass on a curve —but
he did ... at 50. A timber trailer was coming the other way. It was too heavy
to dodge him. He was too fast to dodge it. The cat also crashed. One
dead and three injured. A heavy price for one man’s recklessness. Don’t
follow his example. Observe all traffic laws. Drive carefully. Ride care-
fully. When in doubt. . . brake it down.
DEATH IS SO PERMANENT.. /
5.06?
*
ISSUED BY THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL
(Administered by the Commonwealth Department of Transport)
well below those of the Friesian
or A.I.S.
For 12 years I managed two
stud herds, A.I.S. and Jersey,
run all together as one herd in
a Queensland district where
temperatures ranged from freez-
ing to 117 deg. F., with wester-
lies, cattle-ticks and drought as
common trials. I could see no
sign of the Jersey being weaker
than the A.I.S. Now I’m
managing a mixed herd of stud
Jerseys and crossbreds of various
types on the N.S.W. Southern
Tablelands. Winter temperatures
are well below freezing, and wes-
terly winds are a menace to pro-
duction, but the Jerseys stand up
to it.
For two years all milk from
the Jersey - A.I.S. herd was
recorded. Average production
for Jerseys was 3031 b, of butter-
fat in nine months, that of the
A.I.S. 3091 b. Considering the
lower maintenance costs of the
lighter Jersey, the difference in
production was negligible.
The Shorthorn certainly has
the record for fat production
and the Friesian that for
quantity of milk, but the report
on the N.S.W. herd-testing
scheme for 1946 reveals that
Guernseys had the highest aver-
age yield, an average of 3661 b.
of fat from 94 cows, many of
them from the Wollongbar State
Farm. The 491 Jerseys averaged
3451 b. and the 225 A.I.S. aver-
aged 3251 b. One Jersey gave
more than 7001 b., four gave
more than 6001 b. and 20 gave
more than 5001 b. In the A.I.S.
5001 b, was reached by only six
of them.
Choose a Friesian or A.I.S. by
all means for milk-supply or for
fattening the culls, but give the
Jersey its due as the leading
butter-fat cow. It is as robust
and adaptable as most other
cattle. There are not enough
Jersey culls to worry about that
side of the question.
Deciduous Trees.
“Myrrhee”: June and July are
the best months for planting de-
ciduous trees. The hole dug
should be only just wide enough
to contain the roots; a large,
deep hole often becomes a basin
of waterlogged soil in a wet sea-
son, killing the tree. Prune back
all broken roots and cut the
strong roots shorter than the
weaker to give the tree a chance
to develop a balanced root-
system.
Put the tree in the ground with
the strongest roots pointing in
the direction of the prevailing
winds, and when replacing the
soil hold the tree upright and at
a level slightly higher than it
was planted in the nursery. As
the soil is returned to the hole,
shake the tree up and down to
ensure soil contact around the
roots, then press the ground
firmly around the trunk.
In dry districts water ade-
quately for the first year at least
and certainly during sumfner. A
lot of trees thought to be well
established due to a good leaf
showing in the first flush of
spring die off as the soil dries.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrr”: A proportion of the
food eaten is used by a pig to
keep itself warm, so that any de-
ficiency in bedding and housing
raises food costs, and as winter
approaches these rise even more
steeply. Give the shed walls and
roofs and the yards a look-over
and, in the sleeping quarters,
don’t be niggardly with straw.
This needs to be plentiful enough
to give the grunters protection
and allow them the luxury of
burrowing. Don’t leave it too
long before changing, however,
as damp, foul straw is almost as
bad as none at all. This needn’t
be wasted: it makes excellent
manure.
“Spooks”: It is a good policy
to keep second-year hens, if they
are good mothers, to hatch out
the chickens for the lean months
ahead. It is also good to keep
half each of pullets and second-
year hens. From the better of
the hens the future chickens can
be hatched, and the pullets can
supply the table eggs in the inter-
lude.
“Billjim”: Sterilisation of old
tobacco seed-beds is recom-
mended by Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture if black-root
rot has occurred during the pre-
vious season. Tests with formal-
dehyde have proved it to be satis-
factory. Dig the beds over pre-
ferably while the soil is dry to
allow easy percolation of the
liquid. Sprinkle a solution of
one part of formaldehyde in 50
parts of water with a watering-
can to a depth of 4in., which will
require about three gallons per
square yard. Treatment is more
effective if the beds are covered
with canvas-bags or paper for
two days. Then loosen the soil
to allow fumes to escape without
disturbing more than the top 4in.
Disinfect tools with a l-in-40
formalin solution before use.
Delay sowing for three weeks
after treatment, and also disinfect
pathways and seed-bed frames
with the l-in-40 solution to
prevent recontamination.
“Sundowner”: Among winter
diseases affecting lettuce is ring-
spot, which usually shows up in
warmer weather. Spray with
Bordeaux before the disease ap-
pears at two-to-three-week in-
tervals soon after germination
of plants. Dig out affected let-
tuce and don’t repeat the crop
for at least 12 months in soil
carrying the infection. Poor
drainage encourages this disease.
“Nubis”: Stack bagged super-
phosphate in a cool place. Direct
exposure to the sun should be
avoided, and the bags should not
be close to an iron wall. Spray
the topmost bags with an alka-
line solution such as soda-ash.
After emptying, the bags should
be washed and dried.


INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £9,000,000, Established 1835,
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O'Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 line®). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
'Aye
fr
//
& iu
a gay old shoot.
Tried hard to stop the waves;
The King said "Dash,” and made a splash,
And kicked six of his slaves.
But Woods’ so bold can stop a cold.
When nothing can procure
Relief from pain, none try in vain
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Core Breaks up Colds quickly
YOU CAN DEPEND ON ROLLS
THE LIGHTER WITH THE
.With every “Rolls” comes a guarantee
of free service for five years. This, with
the other outstanding “Rolls” fea-
tures—fully automatic, wind
guard for all weather
use, everlasting glass
wide, recess for spare
flint, mechanism seal-
ing against evapora-
tion-means a lighter
dependable all ways.
Streamlined models in
chromium, 37/ 6. Also
in rhodium and gold.
“Rolls” Flints, 6d. packet.
is j-Q
PLAIULED TDAVEL
™jLw e '
• ant
pE
I Ai
Assisting you to make an earlier arrival by Constellation
in Europe for the coming season, Qantas Empire Airways
announces the following advantages.
overs! Singapore and Rome
Air Travel Plan “A”.
DAYS IN SINGAPORE
The most fascinating city in the Orient, Singapore is the
crossroads of the East. Enjoy three days of never-ending
interest before re-embarking for Calcutta, Karachi, Cairo,
to spend
DAYS IN ROME
The eternal city standing on its seven hills, -Rome is a
storehouse of many of the world ? s cultural treasures. Enjoy
days of such sights as the Colosseum, the Catacombs,
St. Peter’s, the Palazzo Venezia, the Capitol—then on to
LONDON ~ . PARIS .. . BRUSSELS ... AMSTERDAM.
No increase in the through fare for these stop-over privileges.
Hotel accommodation in Singapore and Rome (arranged before
departure) is your only additional expense. Return air. reserva-
tions from Europe to Australia by express service guaranteed.
Westward Hot Around the World <
I Air Travel Plan “B”.
Offers all the privileges in plan “Aplus return through
UNITED STATES OR CANADA
embracing New York or Montreal, Vancouver, or San Fran-
cisco, then trans-Pacific via Honolulu ancf Suva to Australia.
Plan “B” provides for a concession fare for round-the-world
air travellers. Plans “A” and “B” are additional to the
regular 4J days service to London.
For full particulars contact your travel agent, or
Q*£*A and B'O'A'C
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
tdl
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM ' S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
V V V
“They were great girls, the girls of
the roaring ’twenties, and they be-
longed to my youth.”
—Sydney “D.T.” correspondent.
And they’re still with us in the
roaring ’forties.
“ Thanks , mate —it could have been me !"
“The woman clainjed there’s a dove
in the neighborhood that says, in a
sharp soprano: ‘lt certainly is; it
certainly is '."—Sydney “Sun.”
Or the equivalent in pidgin
English.
4* 4*
“Happy in England. Latvian
children, Valdis Garuts and Daintra
Ulms, play near their living quarters
in Bonegilla Camp (Vic.).”
—Sydney “Sun.”
Near Melbourne -on - the -
Thames.
*3>
Lost, parcel containing Liberty
corsets.' "—“S.M.H”
Owner is roaming at large to
find them.
•I*
“When a woman reaches forty she
should be sure of herself.”
—“New Idea.”
And trust that others think
she is 10 years younger.
4* 4*
Trap for Young Players.
• “Why don’t you buy a plain black
felt or beret and make it into a model
with your own clever fingers?”
—Fashion magazine.
Sweet, let this hint your fancy
fire.
Let your deft fingers whiz -
With needle, ribbon, thread and
wire,
Then ask me what it is!
t:\ P. O.M.C.
A Bit Tough.
“When eating some meat I often
think it might be better if before
killing the horses they took the har-
ness off.” —London suburban coun-
cillor J. P. Dunphy.
It seems the days have gone for
good
When any English diner could
Regale himself on solid beef
With thorough faith in his belief
That what was on his groaning
board
Was Angus, say, or Hereford:
And Britons nowadays endorse
Consumption of the flesh of
horse
As just one form of abnegation
Devolving on a famished nation.
But if constrained by direst need
Your Englishman is forced to
feed
On equine flesh it’s surely fair
That harness be removed with
care
Lest Britons, bridling, take a
stand
And have all horseflesh belly
banned .
D. H. E.
Saved!
“Beer for the mob! ” roared
Sir Jasper jovially as he entered
the ancestral hall with his lords
and ladies hot from the hunt.
The scene was beaut! Smoke
from scallop-pots rose to carved
rafters, Louis Quatorze tables
were chock-a-block with silver
salvers of succulent bivalves
and crays, whilst in the centre,
■dominating the room, a pile of
king prawns rose high in majes-
tic splendor. The odor was
sublime. Bloggs, the butler,
stepped forward with mournful
mien.
“Sorry, ladies and gents,” he
said. “Beer is ’orf.”
A dreadful hush fell upon the
room. Peers paled beneath their
tan as they tried to revive faint-
ing women with water.
“Varlet!” shrieked Sir Jasper,
brandishing his riding-crop,
“Then bring champagne!” The
butler’s shoulders slumped in
despair and remorse, whilst a
muffled sob was heard to issue
from either the second or third
under-footman.
Tears filled the faithful re-
tainer’s eyes.
“But, sir, the beer strike—and
then, you’ll remember, the
wetting of the Royal head.
Alas! the cellar is bare.”
Sir Jasper stiffened. This was
too much. What was there left
to live for? The company stood
silent except for the dull un-
sticking of their parched lips,
whilst the king prawns gazed
down upon the dismal scene
with unseeing eyes. Sir Jasper
collapsed into his favorite chair
with an oath. A shot of pain
darted into his back, ’Od’s
blood! This was the last
straw —now his rheumatism was
back. He felt an old, old man.
Suddenly a, gleam of hope came
into his eye. Perhaps all was
not yet lost. The guests surged'
forward in hopeful anticipation,
as if clutching at a straw, as Sir J.
turned imperiously to the butler,
“Get my large bottle of rheu-
matism liniment,” he com-
manded. “It’s ninety-five per
cent metho! ”
JONAS DILL.
The Higher the Phewer.
“Russian movie-director Grigory
Alexondrov has announced that the
Soviet film-industry was on the verge
of producing smellies.”
The great night was at hand
—the night that was to bear the
fruits of the years of research
work put in by the team of
Famous Soviet Scientists. For
Moscow’s first all-smellie pro-
gramme was being given.
This was to consist of a news-
reel, an animated cartoon
(Wottov, the Capitalistic Wolf,
in a screamingly funny sketch-
made up of a half-hour’s thesis,
delivered by the wolf wearing
a silk hat, the emblem of pluto-
cracy, on the inevitability of a
major economic collapse among
the Western nations once the
price-index of railroad stock on
Wall-street passed its peak), and
the. main feature, the thriller;
“Why the Soviet Worker Is the
Happiest on Earth.”
Modestly billed as “a colossal-
ski, stupendousov and miracu-
lousovitch epic,” the opus would
also have been described as
“heart-warming” had not the
Commissar for Culture banned
the phrase on the ground that,
as the worker-audience would be
sitting in their regulation pressed-
paper suits on hardwood benches
in the concrete-floored, unheated
Paradise Theatre it might tend
to implant in them anti-Stalinist
thoughts.
The thriller, for which 700
secret police had been spread
among the audience to check up
on those who failed to applaud
with suitable enthusiasm the
various party slogans uttered by
the hero, was the complete an-
swer to the poisonous insinua-
tions by the Western warmonger-
ing plutocracies that the Soviet
worker worked because he was
made to.
The plot was simple, ingenious
yet impressive.
Serge llshrinkoff, a collec-
tivised oil-sorter, is discovered
eating his sumptuous breakfast
before departing for the oil-
foundry where he happily works.
While this is being shown a
beautiful aroma of fried eggs
and bacon wafts out to the audi-
ence. This aroma was obtained
through a secret Soviet process
by a scientist v who went specially
to America to capture it.
The happy Serge, after wash-
ing himself with a cake of soap
made by the State Boiling-down
Works —the celebrated Parisian
firm which supplied the perfume
for this part of the smellie hoped
to get paid for it by 1956 —is
then shown departing joyfully
for the oil foundry.
On his way he is stopped by
a furtive-looking foreigner. This
is a British diplomat who uses
his consulate as the headquarters
of an espionage ring. He is
cunningly disguised in a pair of
red, white and blue trousers, a
vest made from a Union Jack,
a John Bull topper and he carries
an umbrella rolled tightly like
that used by the warmonger
Neville Chamberlain. He is also
smoking a large cigar with an
ornate band on it. The splendid
aroma given off by this had been
bottled for the film with the
gracious permission of Stalin as
he smoked one he still had left
over from a box of Corona-
Coronas presented to him at
Yalta by President Roosevelt.
The British spy offers Serge
20,000 roubles (28s. 4£d. Eng-
lish) to get him the secret pro-
cess, discovered by a Famous
Soviet Scientist, by which high-
octane spirit may be ignited by
a blowlamp. After making a
25-minute speech declaiming that
his love and loyalty for Stalin,
the Stalinist-Marxist Theory, the
New Democracy and Proletarian
Socialism made such a happy
worker as he proof against the
filthy gold of any capitalist,
Serge throws the English spy
through a shop window.
Here occurs one of the most
brilliant examples of the won-
ders of Soviet science, for as the
Englishman hits the window a
strong and unmistakable smell of
broken glass permeates the
theatre.
When Serge gets to the fac-
tory he doffs paper suit and the
valuable hessian wrapped around
his feet as a substitute for shoes
and dons his paper overalls, and
as soon as the 20-minute address
by the factory’s political com-
missar on the way workers in
capitalist countries have to be
chained to their wheelbarrows
and benches is over, Serge is
shown working madly. At the
end of the day he is created a
Stakhanovite worker for having
sorted over 700 gallons of oil.
The final fadeout shows him
being. toasted in, vodka by his
happy fellow-workers under a
gigantic photo of Stalin. The
smell for this was specially im-
ported from Scotland.
Three minutes after the first
offering flashed oh'the screen the;
great audience began to grow!
restive and- hold their noses.
Within another minute a stam-
pede for the open air was in pro-
gress, led by the secret police—
even they couldn’t stomach it.
Some unthinking idiot had
authorised the showing of a
smellie-newsreel giving a shot of
the Politburo, headed by Joe,
gathered for a meeting.
Bo


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Ward’s Forsaken Garden
“Departmental apathy” is hindering
projects on Norfolk Island, according to
present Administrator A. Wilson, former
who has been responsible to
External Territories Minister Ward.
No Minister for External Territories
has visited Norfolk since the Federal
Government took over its administration
from N, S. Wales in 1914. The air
journey from Mascot now occupies four-
and-a-half hours.
No Government building worthy of
mention has been erected on Norfolk
since the penal settlement gave way to
the Pitcairn descendants of the mutineers
of the Bounty in 1856.
Over two years ago Ward promised to
have a £50,000 licensed tourist hotel built
next to the air-strip. So far there are not
even its foundations.
According to Administrator Wilson,
Norfolk is supposed to become one of
the most important air junctions of the
Pacific, conforming to the highest
standards laid down by the International
Air Conference. Though planes are
calling regularly at the island from Aus-
tralia, New Zealand and Fiji, accommo-
dation is still limited to a few small, un-
licensed guest-houses.
Because there is no safe winter or
summer anchorage at Norfolk, contact
by sea with the outer world is most
irregular and handling of cargoes most
uncertain. The Americans did start to
build a pier in Ball Bay, but it was blown
away by a hurricane.
The Administrator’s main ambitions
for Norfolk are:
(1) Development of the stately, valu-
able pine forests from which most of
Norfolk’s homes are built. At present
these forests are being depleted.
(2) The development of dairying, for
which Norfolk is ideal. A butter factory
has been established, and Norfolk could
export considerable quantities of butter
to England. At present it is importing
butter from Australia and New Zealand.
Until sea communications are improved
export of butter and the citrus fruit and
bananas with which the island abounds is
impossible.
(3) Construction of better communica-
tions to prepare the island as a tourist
resort. At present Norfolk, a potential
Australian Honolulu, is not unlike Swin-
burne’s “Forsaken Garden.” —Ni G. W.
(N.S.W.).
Changing Rail-gauges
“G. 8.” and “R.G.E.” (B. 20/4/’49) are
both off the track. The comparison of
occasional train-loads on limited sections
in N. S. Wales with entirely erroneous
figures regarding “average” train-loads in
States with 3ft. 6in, gauge is unreason-
able.
True, in Queensland the maximum train-
load is 650 tons (very different from the
150 tons “G. 8.” talks of), but the gauge
is not responsible for that. It is prin-
cipally due to limitation in the strength
of draw-gear and the capacity of West-
inghouse pumps controlling the braking
of the trains. In South Africa, with the
same gauge as that of Queensland, trains
up to 1300 tons in weight are common in
main-line working, and loads up to 1785
tons have been worked.
In Australia, between Iron Knob and
Whyalla, trains of up to 2400 tons are
hauled over the 3ft. 6in. gauge—looo
tons more than the load behind “the
powerful locomotives on the standard
gauge in N. S. Wales,” Incidentally,
those engines cannot compare with some
of the South African jobs. The most
powerful N. S. Wales locomotive has a
maximum tractive effort of 56,0001 b.;
that of South Africa 78,6501 b. N.S.W.
has about five trucks with a carrying-
capacity of over 46 tons. South Africa
has approximately 3000 such trucks.
The alleged “dismay of American
military engineers in 1942 at the low
capacity of Queensland trains” must have
changed as the war years went on, be-
cause many high-ranking Americans, from
General MacArthur down, expressed the
highest appreciation of the Queensland
railways for handling a colossal traffic
without one major accident. The single-
line track between Brisbane and the north
carried everything that came to it by
rail from the southern States, and count-
less thousands of tons more which were
discharged from American ships at Bris-
bane,
“G.B.’s” contention that conversion
can be effected from narrow- to broad-
gauge simply by providing longer sleepers
and regauging disregards the vital ques-
tion of curves. Much of the uniform-
gauge rolling-stock could not travel round
the sharp curves existing on the 3ft. 6in.
gauge lines. The tracks would have to
be realigned, embankments, cuttings and
tunnels widened, greater depth of ballast
and larger-dimensioned sleepers provided,
while station platforms, water tanks and
hydrants and other structures would have
to be moved back and shunting-yards
rearranged and enlarged. Also, all
narrow-gauge locomotives and rolling-
stock would have to be scrapped and new
standard stock built, because conversion
would be out of the question.
The statement that if Queensland
adopted uniform gauge “the railways
would be much more efficient and eco-
nomical” is ludicrous. No additional
revenue would be collectable, but interest
on the huge expenditure involved, plus
higher cost of maintenance of wider
track, locomotives and rolling-stock, would
make the change fantastically unecono-
mical.—Will S. Price (Q.).
Petrol Prices
Oil companies will have to talk fast
to justify their application for an in-
crease of 2d. per gallon in the price of
petrol. They would be better advised to
first set their house in order by examin-
ing the expenditure of their publicity
departments with the object of reducing
it to reasonable proportions before seek-
ing to add to the burdens of the motorist.
Even a cut in the sponsored radio pro-
grammes heard daily would help.
They could also reduce the number of
their “representatives” without any great
loss to the community. In my town each
of four companies has one of these ;
they are not salesmen —the products sell
themselves. One such “representative”
of my acquaintance pulled down about
£l3 a week in salary, 251 entertainment
allowance, reimbursement of car and
travelling expenses, free telephone and no
shortage of petrol.
With types of petrol-using transport in-
creasing every day, it should be possible
for each company to obtain a fair share
of the market by the same reasonable
methods of advertising adopted by other
industries where competition is keen. —
Carlyle (Vic,),
Pearling
Pearl-shelling luggers in Torres Strait
have signed on crews again under the
60-40 agreement, though in the face of
a ton of opposition from owners.
The 60-40 arrangement means the
stern diver, who is also skipper, takes
60 per cent, of all shell fished and the
owner takes the other 40 per cent.
Owners have been whingeing ever since
the agreement came into force, but
considering that out of his 60 per
cent, the diver has to pay all wages—
average crew is about 10 boys who get
£2l a month —and for all tucker, tobacco
and repairs to gear damaged by careless-
ness, etc., while the owner pays the run-
ning costs of the boat, the diver doesn’t
do so well after all.
With shell around £350 a ton, the diver
has to drag up at least two tons a month
to break even. Last season qpite a few
months went by when one was lucky to
get half a ton to a ton a month because of
foul weather and inability to find clear
water.
The owners are on clover, but don’t
realise it. — Telarb (T. 1.).
A Dry Anzac
I had one beer on Anzac Day, offered
by four Eighth Divvy men who were
seated in a Sydney park. Far from being
hard drinkers, and only slightly merry,
they told me that they had come down
from the bush for the occasion. They
had the foresight to bring a few bottles
with them.
Their opinion of Sydney licensees was
choice. The Day had been a great suc-
cess, and ex-Diggers generally had turned
on a most impressive march. They were
fairly dry when they finished and headed
away in their groups eager to be in the
second round —a few beers, songs and a
quiet yarn. They found closed doors at
most hotels, while at the few that were
open there was no sign of beer.
People who do not understand this
tradition which causes usually respectable
returned men to acquire a mild glow on
Anzac Day, smile benignly, lurch a trifle,
yet usually remain perfectly harmless,
may think that whoever were responsible
for the drought deserve commendation.
They couldn’t be more wrong. Under
the circumstances of wanting to celebrate
and finding no beer, the boys will take to
spirits, something that most of them rarely
tackle, and the results are often un-
pleasant.
The hotels have blamed the brewers
and the brewers have returned the com-
pliment Next Anzac Day is surely far
enough away for the pubs to guarantee
ample supplies of something fight and
wet.— 29th (N.S.W.).
Gambling
“E. & 0.E.” (B. 20/4/’49) did not men-
tion England’s gigantic gambling turn-
over, which is more than any individual
amount in the list he gives. The three
great betting mediums —horses, dogs and
football and jockey pools—are prospering
to an extent unknown before, and the
effect on national life can only be in-
jurious.
Men, women and children are all in
the stampede to get money the easy way.
Latest returns show the grip that gam-
bling has on the nation.
Horses: In 1932 the tote turnover was
only £4,017,578. For the year 1948, with
fewer meetings, the amount had increased
to £26,252,125. The number of book-
makers operating in ’32 was 30,000, col-
lecting £250,000,000; by 1948, with ac
increased number of books, the figure is
near £400,000,000.
Dogs: Racing began in ’32. The tote
was not in operation, but betting is now
extensive, with 18 million people in-
volved. Tote returns for 1946 were
£200,000,000 —a record. They declined a
little for ’47 and ’4B.
Pool: 1932 pool negligible. In 1948
135 pool-promoters gathered in
£70,000,000 for the year. The post-office
got its cut of £50,000 each week for
handling over 16 million coupons.
The turnover of the three mediums of
gambling in 1948 reached the astounding
amount of £700,000,000. People em-
ployed totalled 300,000, the majority of
them making no contribution to the
nation’s wealth.—L. E. B. (Vic.).
Blueprints for N.T.
In an interview with “Queensland
Country Life,” J. W. Fletcher (Queens-
land grazier and a member of two royal
commissions on the pastoral industry in
Queensland and of the Payne-Fletcher
Commission, which investigated the land
industries of the Northern Territory and
published an excellent report) referred to
remarkable statements appearing in the
Press regarding development of the cattle
industry in Northern Australia. Many
of the statements, he said, were based on
wrong premises arid were so misleading
that they must do a considerable amount
of harm. The worst feature was the
raising of false hopes in the minds of
the people of Great Britain.
Mentioning some of the difficulties in
the way of increasing beef exports to
Britain, Fletcher pointed out that, over
a wide area of cattle-producing country,
two of the last three seasons had been
severe drought years, which had materi-
ally reduced herds and brandings, and
this leeway had to be made up before
there would be any thought of increasing
exports. He also pointed out that con-
sumption of beef in Australia was in-
creasing annually, and any large influx of
immigrants would make further inroads
into our exportable surplus.
Fletcher also asked where the experi-
enced men for every phase of the in-
dustry would be found to deal with in-
creased production. In any case, he said,
it would be at least six years before the
first male calf from the first additional
cow was ready for market.
Before any start could be made in a
serious attempt to develop the Territory,
a railway would be necessary, and the
only serviceable route for it was from
Dajarra (Q.) to Wyndham (W.A.). An-
other railway to assist development could
run from Dajarra to Bourke (N.S.W.)
with extensions to existing termini in
Queensland.
As he is a large owner of cattle- and
sheep-stations and formerly owner and
manager of meatworks, Fletcher’s com-
ments deserve serious consideration. —
C. R. (Q.).
Water for Rice
Water for rice-growing (B. 20/4/’49)
costs 7s. 6d. to 13s. per acre-foot, de-
pending on the amount used. The water
is bought, and is not a gift by the Gov-
ernment or taxpayers, as “Downstream”
implies. Rice is expensive to grow, and
that, coupled with high taxation, makes
it far from the “fattest agricultural baby
in Australia.” Does “Downstream”
realise that while he, as a taxpayer, can-
not get any rice for his own consump-
tion, we, as taxpayers and growers, can-
not get any either? — Rice Cocky
(N.S.W.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 15
Across.
I—ln the direction of the brave man
like shellfish. (8)
4—Artist in the coffee-shop with i
water-bottle. (6)
8 — Edward the Portly is sick and
doomed. (3-5)
9 The mink was in front, all rolled
up. (6)
11— It helps the Russian to get about
in winter, even though many
Russians are finished off by it. (3)
12— Chinese mile beside an African.
(6)
14—Material fury of Roy Rene. (5)
16— Balderdash. (3)
17— Horrify a backward European,
whose father is upset by a friend.
(5)
18— I had a comic-opera princess. (3)
19— Successful show strike. (3)
20— An overturned drone in the Bible.
(5)
21— Digit. (3)
22 — North at one time was of some
moment. (5)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
(Solution in next issue.)
23 Stop leering! The Yank is m
Mexico. (6)
24 Swine. (3)
26 —He is double-crossed on the way
to Auckland and back. (6)
28 — Most colorless poet upset the
most superior. (8)
29 — Such races concern the eggs. (6)
30 — Send away Desmond with a
beauty spbt. (8)
Down.
1— Follow them to the mountain
coppers in town. (6, 4)
2 Fifty per cent, of the jug cannot
be commended for its length.
(4-7).
3 The morning the High Priest of
Shiloh takes a fine speech on
appeasement. (12)
5 Clearing a speechless sailor.' (11)
6 The lot. (3)
7 Saga of Mussolini’s daughter. (4)
10— You can put your shirt on this
nag without much fear of losing
it. (7, 5)
11 — Relating to certain deposits —
mine strayed badly. (11)
13—Date of a very soft musical
unguent. (11)
15—It is spice to marry, is it knot?
(5, 5)
25 —Rodents rise in a heavenly body.
(4)
27 —Old French coin of Phoebus. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 14.


This is what
WE
k •' v _
will do about
Rural Housing
■
x*;
Immediately it is returned, the Liberal Party will investigate
the practicability of producing pre-cut housing units to meet
the special requirements of particular rural areas, and will
enable higher priorities to be granted in the supply of build-
ing materials for the rapid improvement of rural housing
generally.
It will facilitate the erection by State Housing Commissions
and Local Government authorities of groups of workers’
homes in closely settled rural areas where seasonal labour
is in short supply—and the provision of finance, labour
and material to enable State Governments to undertake this
work.
Country families have been fooled over housing by the Chifley Government for far too long.
This accounts to a very large extent for the alarming drift to the cities, a drift that is indescrib-
ably harmful to the entire Australian economy.
When in office we will deal promptly and effectively with the
three main causes of this drift: (1) Lack of housing; (2) ineffective
stabilisation of prices; (3) lack of amenities.
GIVE FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO
THE LIBERAL PARTY send
your contribution to State
Headquarters.
R. G. MENZIES
PARLIAMENT HOUSE, CANBERRA
VLtB-n
Authorised by D. lU. Cleland. 30 Ash St.. Sydney-
