

H agk
H
m
A PRODUCT OF THE
asSS
HOUSE OF
SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3632
Wednesday, September 21, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
MALVERN, THE COLLEGE IN ENGLAND'S "LITTLE SWITZERLAND"
MALVERN, often referred to as “Little Switzerland,” is situated on the
eastern slopes of the famous Malvern Hills, which extend for a length
of nine miles and separate the counties of Worcestershire and Herefordshire.
Malvern is the collective name of six districts —Great Malvern, Malvern Link,
North Malvern, West Malvern, Malvern Wells and Little Malvern. Malvern
occupies the site of an ancient Royal Forest, and it grew up as a Saxon
religious community attracted to the district by the fame of the Holy Well
of St. Anne, which had gained a reputation for the healing of skin diseases.
A Benedictine Priory was founded here by Aldwin, who received grants and
charters from William the Conqueror. Henry I confirmed the monastery in
its possessions, and at that time it became attached to and dependent on
Westminster Abbey. At the time of the Suppression most of the monastic
buildings were destroyed by Cromwell, and today only the Priory Church
and Gatehouse remain.
The highest of the hills rising above Malvern is the Worcestershire
Beacon, 1395 feet above sea level. On the summit a great bonfire was lit
at the time of the Jubilee of Queen Victoria, and it is reputed to be the
site of the beacon which spread the news over the Midlands and the West
of the defeat of the Spanish Armada. Half-way up the Worcestershire
Beacon is St. Anne’s Well, the waters of which are renowned for their purity,
and taking the Malvern waters became “the fashion” in the 18th century.
On the summit of the near-by Herefordshire Beacon (1370 feet) is the British
Camp, the almost perfect remains of one of the strongest hill forts in the
kingdom. It was here that Caractacus defended his kingdom against the
invading Romans.
Malvern is one of the most important educational centres in Britain, and
Malvern Boys’ College, shown by courtesy of The House of Seppelt in the
accompanying illustration, ranks as one of the great public schools of the
country. It was founded in 1862, and provides accommodation for four
hundred boys. During the war the school was evacuated to Harrow.


ŵ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Pew l Eree
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, <u
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin .
My Name
My Address
The Red Page
MANN'S MONSTER.
Thomas Mann’s new novel Dr. Faustus
(Seeker and Warburg) is, first, an essay
on music. Told in the first-person, it
purports to be a biography of a German
composer named Adrian Leverkuhn
written by a lifelong friend and admirer.
The talk about music is abstruse and
technical enough to be a considerable
obstacle for the ordinary reader ; but it
is not altogether lndeed, as
a display of erudition and for the sense
of mystery it evokes, it is fascinating . . .
in a formidable way. Sometimes, as in
the long and subtle disquisitions on Beet-
hoven delivered by Leverkiihn’s teacher,
one has the comfort of being in more-or-
less familiar territory ; sometimes, as in
the picture of Beethoven’s creative fury,
one does not need to know anything
about music to respond to the drama of
the writing:
He had had no midday meal either —
nothing at all since the middle-day before.
Instead, he worked in his room on the
Credo—the young ones heard him through
the closed door. The deaf man sang, he
yelled and stamped above the Credo —it >
was so moving and terrifying that the blood
froze in their veins as they listened. But
as in their great concern they were , about
to retreat, the door was jerked open and
Beethoven stood there —in what guise? The
very most frightful! With clothing •dis-
hevelled, his features so distorted as to
strike terror to the beholders; the eyes
dazed, absent, listening, all at once; he
had stared at them, they got the impression
that he had come out of a life-and-death
struggle with all the opposing hosts of
counterpoint.
Such descents—or should it be ascents?
—from-musical abstraction to the drama
of personality are rare; too rare. For
the most part Thomas Mann discusses
music as a kind of diabolical mathematics,
and one needs to be as learned as a pro-
fessor of mathematics to follow him in
Leverkiihn’s theories, which, the author
says, he has adapted from Arnold Schon-
berg:
“I ask myself why I practised so long
under Kretschmar the devices of the old
counterpoint and covered so much paper
with inversion fugues, crabs and inversions
of crabs. Well, now, all that should come
in handy for the ingenious modification of
the twelve-note word. In addition to being
a fundamental series it could find applica-
tion in this way, that every one of its
intervals is replaced by its inversion. Again,
one could begin the figure with its last
note and finish it on its first, and then
invert this figure as well. So then you have
four modes, each of which can be trans-
posed to all the twelve notes of the
chromatic scale, so that forty-eight different
of the basic series may be used
in a composition and whatever other varia-
tional diversions may present themselves.”
But, as well as its interest for the
musical world and its mysterious fascina-
tion for outsiders, this theory of com-
position, which Leverkiihn’s friend and
biographer likens to “a magic square”
and which he fears would result in “a
probably unavoidable serious musical im-
poverishment and stagnation,” has other
than musical connotations: there is some-
thing about it —its complexity, its in-
sistence on discipline in revolution, its
apparent dramatic sterility—that reminds
one very much of Ezra Pound’s Cantos,
and of the description of their composi-
tion—in a kind of crazy mathematics —
which Pound once gave to W. B. Yeats.
One is reminded that, from Prufrock
to the Four Quartets, Eliot, as well as
Pound has sought to compose poetry in
the technique of music; and that in the
intricate variations of the prose of
Finnegans Wake the same principle may
be observed. Similarly, when the teacher
Kretschmar suggests that “it was music’s
deepest wish not to be heard at all, nor
even seen, nor yet felt; but only—if that
were possible—in some Beyond, the other
side of sense and sentiment, to be per-
ceived and contemplated as pure mind,
pure spirit,” one is reminded both of
abstract art and of Eliot’s ambition to
make his poetry “transparent.”
And that brings one to the second
theme of this extraordinary novel which
its translator, H. T. Lowe-Porter, rightly
describes as “a cathedral of a book”: it
is an essay on the general state of all the
arts today.
Leverkuhn, on the rare occasions when
he speaks or writes a letter, uses an archaic
language, partly in ironic distaste, to
separate himself from the rest of con-
temporary mankind, partly in contempt
of language itself, feeling that all words,
and all the emotions they express, are
hackneyed: and again one is reminded
of Ulysses and Finnegans Wake. The
musician, feeling that everything has been
said, believes the contemporary artist can
express himself only in parody: and one
recalls the parodies of Ulysses, the bor-
rowings and parodies of The Waste Land.
Leverkuhn believes that musical form —
in the traditional sense of emotional con-
struction —is “a fraud.” A Dr. Chaim
Breisacher puts the case for primitivism
—“To condemn as incapacity or ignor-
ance, even as clumsy primitivism, the re-
jection of perspective eye-deception by
preperspective art; even pityingly to
shrug the shoulder over it; this he de-
clared to be the peak of silly modern
arrogance. As though illusion were not
the cheapest principle in art, the most
suited to the mob; as though it were not
simply a sign of elevated taste to wish
to know nothing of it!” Another minor
character, representing the Futurists and
whatever other groups supported the dic-
tatorships, praises “blood and beauty.”
An entrepreneur promises Leverktihn
fame and wealth in Paris, among “Jean
Cocteau the poet, Massine the ballet-
master, Manuel de Falla the composer,”
but Leverktihn must make a personal
appearance, for “the way to fame, in
Paris, leads through notoriety” . . .
Broadly, roundly, then, Dr. Faustus is
a picture of the arts today in all their
aspects. It is not exactly an agreeable
picture. One may sense in the author
some distaste for the lowest manifesta-
tions of European art in our time and
no great joy in its highest. But because
Thomas Mann (presuming his narrator
speaks for him on this occasion) believes
that out of art’s madness will come the
sanity of the future, out of art’s despair
the new life, the picture is balanced,
tolerably dispassionate. It is, more than
anything else, cold. The core of the
thought behind it is that certain modern
artists are working on the principle that
work, time, and pretence, they are one,
and together they fall victim to critique.
It no longer tolerates pretence and play, the
fiction, the self-glorification of form
Only the non-fictional is still permissible,
the unplayed, the undisguised and untrans-
figured expression of suffering in its actual
moment.
In Leverkiihn’s art, as in Pound’s and
Eliot’s, “the expression of suffering in its
actual moment” takes the form of an
exploration of hell. The composer’s first
great work is supposed to be an “apoca-
lyptic oratorio” dealing with the Last
Judgment and influenced by Dante and
Diirer ; his art reaches its climax in a
symphonic cantata, “The Lamentation of
Dr. Faustus,” which “negatives the ‘Ninth
Symphony,’ ” opposing that shout of joy
with “the lamentation of the
son of hell, the lament of men
and God, issuing from the sub-
jective but always broadening
out and laying hold on the
Cosmos; the most frightful
lament ever set up on this
earth.” It is the modern
dream: it is Europe crying to
be delivered from the burden
of existence.
And that —the intermingling
of the death-agony of the arts
with the death - agony of
Europe as a whole —is the third
theme of Thomas Mann’s
novel. Portrayed as a symbolic
victim of the artistic tendencies
of the time, Leverkiihn also
represents the German soul as
“a psychology threatened with
envelopment, the poison of isolation,
provincial boorishness, neurosis, implicit
Satanism.” And Germany is seen as an
intensification of all that is evil in Europe,
all that moves towards the disaster and
lamentation out of which a new life is
to be born.
These three essays, then, on music, on
the arts generally and on the fate of
Europe, make the body and the bulk of
Dr. Faustus. It is never quite safe to
generalise about tendencies in the arts
and the collapse of civilisations; and
Thomas Mann’s theories, though unusu-
ally comprehensive, are not new and are
stated with forbidding prolixity. But the
essays remain massively impressive;
heavy, serious, deeply sincere, deeply
thoughtful. In a word, ponderous.
But when did three good essays ever
make a novel?
Despite some lively minor characters,
despite an occasional paragraph im which
Leverktihn acquires syphilis or somebody
takes an overdose of morphine or some-
body else is shot by his mistress, Dr.
Faustus is an astonishingly empty book;
a«vastitude filled with words.
Though Leverktihn and the devil
actually have a conversation in which
the composer is tempted to sell his soul,
the great difficulty lies in perceiving why
the sale takes place, what precisely it
means and how Leverkiihn’s art and life
are affected by it. And, then, if it is
understood that by deliberately seeking
syphilis Leverktihn has cut himself off
from life and love; that a subsequent
homosexual episode is a corruption ; that
the loss of a girl he comes to care for,
the death of a child he loves and the
murder of his friend are all the results
of his isolation and his arrogance, as is
his own final madness ; that his rewards
for his sufferings are his music and his
pride; and that the music, though the
future will make it healthy, is “evil” be-
cause it negatives the “Ninth Symphony”
and is fundamentally hostile to humanity
—then it is still difficult to take an in-
terest in a character whom one hardly
meets in person until the last chapter,
and who, for the greater part of the book,
is walking around with a stiff neck miles
away from the reader while Thomas
Mann’s narrator talks. and talks ...
and talks.
It is impossible to fix attention on the
minor characters and the dramas of love
and death that develop between them be-
cause the focus, though at a distance, is
always on Leverkiihn. And, remote as
he is, Leverkiihn never appears as an
actual, living man who has sold himself
like Faust to the devil. In fact, when
the composer is suffering with migraine
and one is told he is “gripped with hot
pincers” one feels embarrassed: the
medieval devil is a strange and incon-
gruous visitor in this modern, clinical
hell. There is also some embarrassment
for the reader—as well as some inevitable
dissatisfaction—in the narrator’s continual
promises of appalling horrors ... none
of which, until the last chapter, really
materialise.
In his analysis of the failings of con-
temporary art, Thomas Mann has not
mentioned the one which practically de-
stroys his own novel as a living crea-
tion : the tendency of the modern
novelist to turn his work into a political
sermon. Up to a point, his own work
in this book is a flight from the indi-
vidual human being comparable to Lever-
kilhn’s; he suffers himself from the in-
tellectual chilliness he perceives in the
representative art of the age. With an
abstraction instead of a man at the centre
of it, his book is not so much a novel as
a dramatised essay. As such it has a
sombre majesty; the grandeur, the
solidity, the grimness of a granite crag
... and, like a granite crag, it is practi-
cally impenetrable.
Twenty Years of War.
Itineraries on the endpaper and insert
maps of Colonel J. V. Davidson-Houston’s
Armed Pilgrimage (Hale) cover China
from Hong Kong to Harbin; Japan;
Russia from Vladivostok to Moscow;
Rumania from east to west and north
to south; the Middle East from the
Egyptian desert to Tehran ; and the
Far East from Calcutta to Mandalay and
Lashio.
Colonel Davidson - Houston, whose
specialties are sabotage and languages,
was a British Intelligence Officer in
China most of the time from 1932
to 1938, something in the character of
referee with entree to both Chinese and
Japanese camps. His exact reporting,
evidently from diaries, among intensifying
dangers, shows increasing realisation of
the power of the Japanese war-machine.
He met many Japanese officers who were
to become well-known to Australians;
also the sinister Doihara; and lived
patiently and very observantly through
such scenes Of Japanese occupation as
that in which a British General had to
pretend to be amused while a Japanese
sentry played with his medals, turning
them round to examine the reverses.
During a trip back to England through
the U.S.S.R, in 1938, he managed to
make considerable sense from what could
be observed in and out of a train. In
1939 he was sent to Rumania, where his
efforts to organise sabotage were un-
successful ; and a rather humorous effort,
with the aid of a pro-British Rumanian
girl, to get a microphone in on the dis-
cussions of her pro-German # banker
brother with highly-placed Germans was
also foiled. With a party of British oil
engineers, he escaped from Rumania in
a little steamer run by the inexpert family
which owned it, who were also fleeing
with a cargo of their family possessions,
through the Black Sea and .the Mediter-
ranean to Egypt, where, after a little
office work in Cairo, and a short sally into
the desert, he was ordered to Persia.
In Persia, in 1941, his job was to en-
sure good relationships between the
Russians and British, who jointly invaded
and occupied the country; and his
accounts of the two armies’ endeavors to
outdo each other in hospitality are as
amusing as his portraits of the Russians
are shrewd.
In 1942 he was sent to China, where he
had a considerable hand in organising
the “surprise battalions”; but his plans
were checked by the retreat from Burma,
of which he gives a most moving account *
first by tram then on foot, in a march
led by none less than General Stilwell
Recovering in India from dysentery
and jungle sores. Colonel Davidson-
Houston was for a short time an in-
structor in England; and then he went
back to Burma for another helping this
time as one of Wingate’s aides, namely
second in command of the 111th Indian
Infantry Brigade, detailed to Long Range
Penetration.
Compressed, precise, thick with obser-
vation of people, customs and scenes, this
is a most absorbing book for the general
reader, and should become an indispens-
able handbook to writers of secret-aeent
or thriller novels.
TO RODERIC QUINN.
Dear Roderic, I (like Heine’s frozen pine,
My houghs borne down of heaviness and woe.
By shrewd winds searched) now turn my blinded eyne,
Childwise, to where, good poet, you englow
All hearts around you . . . Shining in the breeze,
You, like old Heine’s palm of Sunrise-land !
I hear your golden bird-wild melodies —
O singing-fruited tree! What magic hand,.
What ancient wind, intruding from the sky,
Took mortal earth of this our lovely South,
And mingling moon-beams with the thrush’s cry,
Bestowed Australia’s sweetest honey-mouth?
N-S.W.
Hugh McCrae.
Reviewed Briefly .
The Flanagan Boy: Max Catto
(Harrap). Tough stuff about a young
boxer who murdered his promoter to get
his vicious wife; Granted that The Post-
man Always Rings Twice, -it’s about time
he didn’t ring all the time.
* * * *
Crooked Sixpence: Leo Grex (Harrap).
A woman hat-shop proprietor, whose
husband has gone to the dogs with a
mysterious woman and a crooked gang
of greyhound touts, finds him dead in a
seaside bungalow, and with an amorous
Scotland Yard detective-sergeant drives
from nightclub to sinister flat to grey-
hound kennels until they realise that the
Master Criminal is the one upon whom
th.e author and the reader have settled
from the beginning of the book.
* * * *
Toy-making in School and Home: R.
K. and M. I. R. Polkinghorne (Harrap). It
is pleasant to record that this English
work, first published in 1916, and now-
revised, is not as clearly put and finely-
illustrated as the Toy-making section of
the Australian Crafts for School and
Home (B. 4/5/’49); but it has more in
it, notably some toys worked by sand,
windmills, cork-and-matchstick
animals, paper toys, kites, rail-
way signals—all very elemen-
tary. The chapter on model
boats left the reviewer moaning
with gentle anguish. Further
inspection shows that the book
is intended for girls as well as
boys, and that one of the
authors is a lady who taught
these matters at the County
Secondary School, Streatham.
* * «
Malta : Sir Harry Luke (Har-
rap). The author was Lieut.-
Governor of the island from
1930 to 1938. He says the book
is “not a guide, not a hand-
book, not a history, not a col-
lection of personal reminis-
cences, not a commentary on
Malta’s politics”; and the difficulty is to
say what, other than a medley of all
these, it is. It makes an awkward but
readable patchwork, among which you
never know if you are going to encounter
Napoleon or Mussolini, Coleridge or Mr.
and Mrs. Bernard Shaw, Grand Master
Vasconcellos or Winston Churchill.
* * * *
Raintree County: Ross Lockridge
(Macdonald). America’s most recent
1050-page historical aphrodisiac is a
legend of a mythical county of Indiana
from 1844 to 1892, and concerns the
journalist-schoolteacher lawn Shawnessy
who loved farmer’s daughter Nell, and
was coerced into marrying a hot Southern
number, Susanna, after a pretty wild time
on the banks of a symbolical lake.
Susanna goes mad and leaves lawn, tak-
ing their little son with her; he departs
for the Civil War, and returns to find his
gravestone set ’near Nell’s, who has
married and died in childbirth. He then
goes about marrying Esther, opposed in
this by her father armed with a stock-
whip ; so they fight the matter out in a
newspaper-campaign , . . These facts are
needlessly placed in the wrong order all
over the book, which makes further
meretricious claims upon Art by begin-
ning every chapter with the last word of
the preceding chapter. Still, it is a book
of goodwill, full of nostalgia for the
American countryside and its people;
and the report that the author has killed
himself, aged 34, is the one real cloud
upon its citric sunshine.


British Khaki Drill Work Shirts
collar, pocket. l4/9.
Grey Cotton Tweed “Can’t
Tear 'Em” Trousers for
tough wear. 4 to 8, 21/-;
i sizes, 22/6.
Dad’s "offsiders” in the garden
Junior and Wags both think it’s great fun helping Dad!
So does Dad . . . specially when he has sturdy
gardening tools from “The Senior Store’
It makes for great teamwork I
*
- ■■
A
mmm
a
m
I
¥
■y
■■■■■■■
m
Cll
M
111
I
((«
f
m
[\(
/
w
0
m
\L'
A,i
.7 I
/Hi
Wl V!
No. 1 Galvanised Barrow with pipe frame, pneumatic tyred wheel. £7/16/10
“Cambridge” 14in. rubber-tyred Lawn Mower with six blades, ball bearings. £l2/18/9
Garden Fork, four-prong, “Hordura” brand, with best quality English steel. 19/3
“Hordura” brand English Garden Spades, reliable and light. 21/6.
> ~ '/" "V /Wf I*■
■■ / j j|
I .. "A^A. . Q '-n. _tO ir-. A A
- T "“i
0 fc“j ; > y sVi r YV'^fV^V'
¥l¥^CLi£il¥ WAwz?
14
r> —-7iu‘hjiied’ 1 1 I i '.
-.rr-
«7!
llf/ . t .T/i ■¥ ■
t r -*
/wi TTiC" '
ip icq :
,a|Ci>4 r
m
vj
K
t'
I
«i:t|
••• ei#
• -” 1
'VvA' /,■<■•-- , 4, 4. %ci£s%&siSri v. ■ V. ji. ■sil v. i •*&£w'. v
f £>
O •
\ f/t
’TRUTH I tty's ADVERTISING^
/At
tcietnJ
Garden Seats: Attractive Red,
Green or Orange colours. Twelve
battens; strong and comfortable.
4ft., 61/3 sft., 64/- 6ft., 79/3
Garden Hoses: 1/- 1/1 1/2 1/3 l/3£ 1/7 1/8 ft.
f-inch 1/3 1/5 l/11 2/-ft.
“Gay” Rotary Sprinklers 0 12 3 4
Tripod 38/- 43/6 65/- 80/10 154/6
On rollers 54/6 69/3 115/- 134/3 203/6
14in. “Wimbledon” rubber-tyred
Lawn Mower has 5-blade cutting
cylinder, ball bearings, is totally
enclosed. Lightweight. £B/12/6.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT—FOURTH FLOOR. ’PHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3632
Wednesday, September 21, 1949
AND THEY PLAYED THEIR UKULELES AS THE SHIP WENT DOWN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney ;
Box 2521; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
WARD'S GARDEN.
Among the many matters which fill the
observer of Federal politics with relief
that a general election is at hand, the
manner in which the findings of the
Royal Commission on the New Guinea
Timber scandal have been handled must
take pride of place.
It was bad enough that the Royal Com-
mission should have been appointed only
at a stage when it had become unavoid-
able. It should have been appointed as
soon as the charges against the honor of
the Minister and his officers were made
and before any criminal prosecutions
took place. It was doubly bad that its
ambit of inquiry should have been
limited —this limiting by the Australian
Government in strong contrast to that of
the British Government when, faced
with charges against one of its junior
Ministers last year, it appointed a
Commission with terms of instruction
which placed no limit; which permitted
the probing of every fact that might
either convict or clear the people con-
cerned in every aspect. This the Com-
mission appointed after the conviction of
Garden and the acquittal of some of his
companions was not able to do.
All that was bad enough. But what
happened to the Commissioner’s report
was sufficient to shake confidence in any
Government. The report was not freely
circulated, as it should have been so that
the public would not have to take the
say-so of anybody about the findings. It
was hurriedly circulated among members
of the Press, who were not allowed very
long to peruse it. It was not generally
available to the Opposition for some time.
The public were not allowed to read it
at all. The debate upon the motion to
print it was left to the end of the session,
and virtually wound up before the ad-
journment with a larrikin speech by the
Minister involved. After the recess, when
it was hoped that it would be stale, these
disgraceful proceedings were rounded off
in a rag-end debate with a testimonial
from Mr. Dedman to the efficiency and
honesty of the Minister.
The whole business has been left at a
very unsatisfactory stage. The Govern-
ment seeks to, convey the impression that
Mr. Justice Ligertwood said all that need
be said on the subject, and that the result
of his finding is that nothing is left to be
desired in the conduct of Mr. Ward or
his department, and that there is nothing
further which needs explaining.
This is very far from the truth. It is
true that Mr. Ward has been cleared of
all charges of dishonesty, but other
matters need thorough probing; among
them, why Garden was employed and
exactly what his position was in the Labor
and Industry Department.
Garden’s duties were outlined by Mr.
Ward on May 28, 1942, in reply to a
question by Mr. Harrison:
The duties of Mr. Garden, who recently
was appointed to my personal Staff, are to
act as a liaison officer between the unions
and myself, and to carry out such investiga-
tions as I may from time to time direct,
as the result of requests from the unions.
....I am pleased to advise that, as a result
of his activities, many disputes have been
satisfactorily settled without an actual
stoppage of work.
The subsequent history of Mr. Ward’s
and Mr. Holloway’s department is
studded with questionings about Garden’s
position, the circumstances of which
might well be the subject of further
inquiry in view of the fact that on every
occasion Ministers, from the Prime
Minister downwards, appeared to be
willing to go to any length to protect him.
When, in March, 1943, Garden ordered
State-police shorthand-writers from a hall
in which striking textile-workers were
meeting, and then told the gathering
exultantly that the (illegal) strike had been
worth while because, for the first time in
the history of the trade-unions, the Judge
had consented to hear their claim while
they were still on strike. Senator Ashley
and other Ministers heatedly defended
him —the Senator said it was “cowardly
for anyone under Parliamentary privilege
to slander or injure any person”; Mr.
Ward evaded the whole matter, refusing
even to inquire whether Garden had said
what he was supposed to have said.
When Mr. Blain, urged to action by a
report that an astrology journal which
Garden had founded was battening on
relatives of soldiers and on young service
people, the Prime Minister supplied the
House (April 4, 1946) with a great deal
of information tending to shield Garden.
Answering one question, Mr. Chifley said
that “Mr. Garden was dismissed from
the Defence Department in 1916. The
case was taken to court and he won the
case.” The facts were that on the evidence
of the man who supposedly received the
material and who turned King’s evidence,
Garden had (in May, 1920) been charged
with conspiring to hand over thousands of
yards of Defence Department cloth to a
manufacturer for nothing, tjmt neither
he nor the others charged witff him went
into the box, preferring to make state-
ments from the dock, and that, after
several hours’ deliberation and being
locked up all night, the jury disagreed
about Garden and two others and the
case was dropped by the Crown.
A further statement by Mr. Chifley was
that Garden had “not been a member of
the Comintern Executive 1923-35,”
whereas he was certainly a member for
part of 1923, as the official reports of the
Comintern show.
Finally, in answer to Mr. Plain’s ques-
tion “Is this man fit to be employed in
the Commonwealth Service?” the Prime
Minister answered : “I know nothing to
warrant me in believing that he is not.
He is now, and has been for 30 years, an
ordained minister of the Presbyterian
Church.” The fact was that Garden had
never been an ordained minister of the
Presbyterian Church, and though he had
been a minister of another church, the
original of a letter from the general
secretary to the Comintern, Kuusinen,
dated in October, 1923, exists and shows
that as far back as that he gave Moscow
an undertaking to have nothing more to
do with religion, as a condition of his
being allowed to remain in the Com-
munist party.
In the recent war Garden’s years of
contacts with the Communist party, which
were frequent and free, should have been
sufficient to lead to his dismissal. But
Garden’s political hold seems to have
been so great that nothing could move
him. One startling document which was
produced before the Commission, and
which had not seen the light until Mr.
Cameron, M.P., read it in Parliament, was
addressed to Mr. Holloway when he pro-
posed to transfer Garden from his room
on the Parliamentary floor of the Com-
monwealth Bank, Sydney, to another job:
To the Honorable E. J. Holloway:
We the undersigned Members and Sena-
tors desire you to reconsider decision re
transfer of Mr. J. S. Garden from his
present position, for during the period he
has occupied such position he has been
responsible for straightening out many
anomalies and arresting industrial trouble.
Apart from this he has been of consider-
able assistance to Members of Parliament
between the several departments coming
under your control and under control of
the Allied Works Council, We therefore
respectfully ask you that he be still retained
in his present position as liaison officer
between members and the Department of
Labor and National Service. (Sgd.)
Watkins, James, Falstein, Clark, Sheehan,
Amour, Williams and Daly.
There was also another note from Mr.
Martens, member for Herbert, to Mr.
Holloway: “Unless it is too late, I ask
you to reconsider the matter in your
own interests, unless there is something
you know that I do not.”
So Garden was acting as a go-between
for members, and one at least of them
believed that it would be better for Mr.
Holloway in his own interests to retain
him.
Certainly these documents suggest
avenues of inquiry which Mr. Justice
Ligertwood was unable, under the terms
of his commission, to explore, though
there seems to be need for a searching in-
quiry into the whole administration of
the Minister to determine whether or not
he is fit and competent to hold office.
Mr. Justice Ligertwood himself as
good as said that another inquiry was
necessary. After having discussed the
means by which Garden was enabled to
encompass fraud, his Honor added:
I am not in a position to criticise them,
and I refrain from doing so. To do justice
in any such criticism would require a
separate inquiry as to Garden’s work as
liaison officer and as to how far the
exigencies of the military and industrial
position required the retention of his ser-
vices. One can be pardoned, however, for
doubting the efficacy of Garden’s work as
a liaison officer during the three and a half
years in which he was engaged in this
fraud.
As Mr. Cameron remarked in discuss-
ing that passage, there are obviously
many questions which await answers.
Some he suggested were: What were the
terms and conditions under which Garden
was appointed to his position? What
duties did he usefully perform in that
position while he was there? What sort
of control did the Minister have over his
department when a thing like this could
go on in his inner office under his very
nose for three and a half years without
his discovering a trace of it?
And most people would agree on read-
ing Mr. Justice Ligertwood’s remarks,
even in the very limited extracts quoted
in the House, that neither have all the
shocking details of careless administration
been reported in full to the public nor
have the avenues of inquiry been ex-
hausted.
It is quite apparent that, whatever else
he did as Minister and however clean
his hands may have proved to be, Mr.
Ward did not have control of his depart-
ment. As Mr. Cameron pointed out, “If
he had, Mr. Justice Ligertwood would
not have been able to report that
Garden was able to use the Minister’s
office for the purpose of stealing the
Minister’s paper and envelopes and using
them for certain nefarious designs,”
Writing on the Wall.
Before the Washington financial con-
ference met, the apologists for the
Socialist mess in the United Kingdom had
exhausted all their alibis, and the “pro-
found and long-term character” of
Britain’s present financial and trading
problems, the “deep-seated maladjust-
ments” in European economy, had had a
full airing. Washington’s concern, in
plain English, was: Is it possible for,
Britain, if helped, to earn its own live-
lihood ? What the American consultants,
dispensers of the dollar-aid on which
Britain has been living, told the British
Government is that its export prices are
too high, its industries are apparently un-
able to face a buyers’ market, its people
are not working hard enough, and that
some evidence must be furnished that by
1952 Britain can float without the Mar-
shall Aid which will then end.
The British Socialist Ministers made
answer, also just, that Americans in the
new world which they dominate must
become buyers as well as sellers; that to
lend from surpluses is, like patriotism,
not enough. American protective tariffs
and Customs procedures are impossibly
restrictive.
The notable agreement at Washington
was that both sides were right. It was
agreed that America should revise
Customs procedures, that Britain should
be allowed some freedom to spend sparse
dollars outside U.S.A. if that is to
Britain’s advantage (which would help
the Canadian problem, too), and that
America should “buy British” more
heavily—rubber and tin, for a start.
Through the International Bank and the
Export-Import Bank, U.S.A. might invest
in British colonial development, and to
this is attached a suggestion, apparently
on Britain’s initiative, that America should
share some of Britain’s military obliga-
tions in the Far East.
But all this means, in effect, only that
the Americans are ready to help Britain
to earn its own living. Before Sir Stafford
Cripps (who represented Australia, too,
by Mr. Chifley’s arrangement last July)
announced the long-expected—though un-
expectedly heavy—devaluation of the
£stg. he had been reported as having
agreed in Washington that his Govern-
ment “must soon cut its Budget expendi-
ture, presumably in ’the field of social
services” (A.A.P. report). Cabled com-
ments from London “Evening Standard”
were more explicit: “Big cuts in Govern-
ment spending are expected, considerably
beyond the £l5O million already an-
nounced believed to include big
economies in the national health scheme
and possibly a halt in the nationalisation
programme.”
This forecast required no great intelli-
gence, since every critic of the British
Socialists’ record, and even leading
Socialists themselves (as at the T.U. Con-
gress), have recognised that without
harder work while Marshall Aid lasts the
extravagant “social-security” programme
in Britain simply cannot continue, and
that when Marshall Aid ceases in 1952
that expenditure will be the first to feel
the axe.
Even Mr. Chifley, basking in a false
local prosperity of abnormal export prices
for wool and wheat, told his pre-Budget
caucus meeting that his Government
would risk present social benefits if it
tried to increase free pensions, and that
(Melbourne “Age” report) “he believed a
national superannuation scheme would
soon have to be considered for all social
services, which would have to be on a
contributory basis.” If with “full em-
ployment” the Socialist Government can-
not be sure of maintaining social services,
and if “full employment” itself cannot
afford a contributory insurance scheme,
then there is something seriously wrong
somewhere in the whole set-up.
Socialist Ministers here and in Britain
have read the writing on the wall, and
because the people, hitherto lulled into a
sense of false security, are also making
a good fist of deciphering it, the faSry
mist of Socialist pretences is steadily
vanishing. An early reaction in Britain
to Washington reports was that the Attlee
Government may prefer to go to its
general elections this year instead of next,
and it would certainly be a grand uplift
for the British Commonwealth to see
both these Socialist outfits hang together.
An Unusual Best-seller.
Clearly no insignificant sign of popular
sentiment in the United Kingdom, a 68-
page booklet (price 6d.), entitled The
Right Road for Britain, has already
reached nearly two million copies and
been reported this English summer as a
“best-seller.” The Conservatives’ opening
attack for the elections —their policy
statement —its text is the clear simple pro-
position—“We must earn our own live-
lihood” :
Unless we caff sell our products in
foreign markets at competitive prices, we
shall suffer unemployment and will not be
able to sustain our standard of living or
our social services... .Unless we can solve
our problems at home, we cannot fulfil our
responsibilities in the world. Unless we
can build in the world a strong front
against Communism, there can be no sure
defence for our way of life at home
The Labor party is trying to create a
completely Socialist Britain. All forms of
power are to be centralised in the Govern-
ment, and the interference of Government
will pervade and dominate the life of the
private citizen. In practice, Socialism is
proving to be restrictive and negative.
Even in its earliest stages it is cumbersome
and inefficient.,. .The disturbance of our
industries has greatly aggravated our diffi-
culties. .. .Experience abroad has shown that
the creation of a Socialist State prepares
the way for Communism. To attempt to
disarm the Communists by doing peacefully
and slowly the things they want to do
quickly and by force is appeasement in the
worst sense of the word.
Inevitably the Conservatives’ pro-
gramme runs on parallel lines with that
of the Liberal-Country parties in Aus-
tralia. It insists on the release
from collectivist chains of personal
energy and endeavor. “The need is
to humanise organisation, not to
organise humanity.” Parliament shall be
restored to its rightful place as the
guardian of the people against the Execu-
tive. Where nationalisation cannot be
undone its management will be decentral-
ised. Living standards will be improved
not by lowering wage levels or injuring
social services, but, through loosening re-
strictions and restoring incentives to in-
dividual effort, providing the opportunity
to recreate that real national wealth which
alone can make a people prosperous.
Exorbitant Government expenditure—
the hallmark of the Socialist State —and
the crippling taxation necessary to sup-
port it must both be lowered. Some
commodity controls in the present situa-
tion must be continued, but all will be
progressively reduced. Direction of labor
will be abolished forthwith.
It is also emphasised that em-
ployers and employees will have to
recognise that their interest in the pros-
perity of any industry is one and the
same; and a Conservative Government
will give the lead to any of the several
means to this end —profit-sharing, piece-
work, joint consultation and co-partner-
ship schemes —by operating the Workers’
Charter adopted by the party in 1947.
This offers a legal right to a written con-
tract of service, proper reward for in-
dividual effort, promotion by merit, tech-
nical and general training schemes, joint
consultation of the widest range, and
when an acceptable code is worked out
between unions and employers and sealed
by Parliament, only those employers who
observe it will obtain Government con-
tracts. As for present social services—
The Socialist Government has, in the
main, only completed work which the war-
time Coalition Government had begun.
The threat [to those services] is the con-
tinued pursuit by our present rulers of
policies which may prevent Britain from
surmounting her- present crisis. Such
policies have already inflated the cost of
social services, reduced the cash value of
benefits and pensions. It is in the interest
of all to cut out shameful waste and insist
upon value for money spent. This the
Conservative party will do.
In other words, the evils which have
attended the Socialist experiment—the
class-war, go-slow,* pressure for higher
wages for less work —rob “social security”
of the benefits intended, because nothing
can sustain them except a real increase in
national wealth provided by honest return
in working output for wages paid.
The Conservative appeal in Britain and
the Liberal-Country appeal in Australia
might be stablemates. Perhaps they are.
Nothing strange in that, when the fight
against socialisation in both countries is
a common one. The Socialist cause there
and here is likewise a common one, the
Socialists in Canberra and Westminster
acting in concert at every phase in the
development of their twin schemes for
installing the dictatorship of the Col-
lectivist State.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Humpty Dumpty £.
This contemptible contribution amounts
to;
Only one-sixth of what the Federal
Government spent (from the national
Treasury) in maintaining Canberra last
year. (Canberra’s population is about
20,000 also).
Less than the loss incurred for the year
by the Canberra bus-service alone.
Only about one-third of the annual cost
to the country of the extra salary which
members voted to themselves earlier during
this Parliament.
No more than it would cost over the full
term of this Parliament to meet the in-
creased pay to Ministers alone, on top of
the extra pay to themselves and members
under the previously-mentioned increase.
Only about two-thirds of the extra
aggregate amount allowable —the latest per-
quisite—-to members of the next Parliament
as a deduction from income tax on account
of members’ payments into their new
superannuation fund (pay in £3 a week
while you sit in Parliament, and when you
leave it you draw £8 a week for life).
It isn’t that Mr. Chifley has not got
the money—our money—with which to
be more generous in helping Kempsey. He
has got heaps of money—more than he
can spend in the year even with the
Socialists’ extravagant hand. He found
£8 million without question to reimburse
the States for their losses under the
miners’ strike.
No, the explanation is probably that
there weren’t many “Labor” votes around
Kempsey at the last elections. Whether
that is true or not, there won’t be many
left for the elections just ahead.
Assisting Treason.
Large advertisements authorised by Mn
Chifley in dailies during the coal strike
dubbed the Communists a cynical section
who “want no law but their own,” whose
aim was “to destroy for ever the Aus-
tralian system of conciliation and arbitra-
tion, and to substitute an industrial
anarchy,” and who were willing “to climb
to power over the ruins of industrial and
social Australia.”
That was 10 weeks ago. Last week the
Chifley Government’s Broadcasting
Control Board gazetted a regulation
which will not only give the Communist
party the right to speak over national
stations at election-time, but will make
it an offence for commercial stations to
refuse them the same privilege.
In order to ensure that its own party
spokesmen get as much broadcasting time
as Opposition speakers on all stations the
Government has put itself in the position
of guaranteeing to an organisation sworn
to overthrow the State an opportunity to
preach its poisonous doctrine.
A.B.C. will give inter-State relays to
leaders of parties which nominate candi-
dates in at least 15 per cent, of electorates
spread over at least three States, and the
order provides that commercial stations
must broadcast these statements in full
and free of charge. It also stipulates
that in respect to paid broadcasting-time
As it has turned out, those who began
forecasting a year or so ago that it was
only a matter of time before the false
currency value of the £stg. would have
to be adjusted—repeated British Govern-
ment refutation notwithstanding—proved
only too grimly right. The fall was as
grtat as the most pessimistic could have
expected.
As announced by Sir Stafford Cripps,
the new exchange rate is $2.80 to the £stg.
compared to the previous rate of $4.03.
As simultaneously announced by Mr.
Chifley, Australia has devalued at the
same rate as Britain ; the new rate in
relation to the dollar being $2.24 to the
£A; there is no alteration in the rate of
exchange between Australia and London.
As also announced, the price of gold has
soared from £AIO 15s. 3d. to £AIS 9s.
10d., a rise which says enough on its
belatedness.
A chief immediate effect of the de-
valuation will be the easier availability
of some dollars through the Monetary
Fund; advances hitherto bluntly refused
where currency was on a false basis, as
the £stg. has palpably been for some
time. There will not, however, be any
easing on this account of the “dollar posi-
tion,” either for Britain (which will now
have to export very considerably more
to America) or Australia —rather the con-
trary. And a certain effect on the ordi-
nary pocket will be a rise in the price of
tobacco and petrol.
A probable valuable effect from
Britain’s point of view is improved
American goodwill and generosity based
on a belief that, the devaluing resort
being so drastic, Britain’s Government at
long last means to face up to hard
realities.
As far as Britain is concerned, Sir
Stafford Cripps can safely be taken as
having said the last word on devaluation.
But Mr. Chifley’s last word may be yet
to come.
The Miser's Relief Dole.
What the N.S.W. people think of the
niggardly grant by the Chifley Govern-
ment for the relief of the recent flood
disaster at Kempsey is shown by the fact
that the “S. M, Herald” has already raised
from within the home State one and a
half times as much as the Chifley Govern-
ment offered from all Australia!
Mr. Chifley had a concealed surplus
last financial year of more than £BO
million —our money—which he cached
away under one cover or another. From
this he offered the stricken people of
Kempsey and surrounding district —some
20,000 of them altogether—£2o,ooo, £1
each.
there must be no discrimination between
parties. As the Communist party has
already intimated that it will be nominat-
ing more than the required percentage of
candidates it follows that if the order
stands the Communists cannot be denied
the benefit of it.
Ten weeks ago “Labor” Ministers and
their henchmen were stumping the coal-
fields condemning the Communists and
all their works ; the more vocal of them,
notably Calwell, were threatening all
sorts of dire action against them—“the
ratbags of Marx House who are not in
jail yet, but soon will be.” The “action”
actually taken is only what should have
been expected by anyone acquainted with
the past associations of the two parties.
Mines' Work and Wages.
How well paid are members of the
Miners’ Federation, when compared
with wages ruling elsewhere in industry,
may be calculated from figures issued by
the Northern Colliery Proprietors’ Asso-
ciation giving the average daily earnings
of contract miners and machinemen
throughout the association’s 26 collieries.
The period is for the pre-strike fortnight
ended June 4, 1949, and covers 2062 em-
ployees.
The average net daily wage per man,
after deducting cost and explosives* was
£3 ss. lOd. Official statistics show the
kind of return made for this wage.
During the seven years (up to 1948)
of “Labor” government the output of
N.S.W. underground coalmines has
steadily fallen per man-shift in spite of
increased mechanical equipment for get-
ting and handling coal. The figures:
P.c. of
Output tonnage
man- mech.
Year. shift. handled.
1942 3.21 21
1943 3.10 22
1944 3.09 20
1945 2.98 21
1946 2.99 22.24
1947 .. .. .. 3.01 26.85
1948 2.92 27.51
Average 3.04 22.94
The year 1942 was the critical war year
when invasion threatened Australia,
During the same period the total out-
put has remained stationary (chiefly
owing to increase in opencut output)
although numbers employed have steadily
increased:
-—Output (tons). —-
Year. U.G. O.C. Employed.
1942 .. 12,149,000 57,000 16,634
1943 .. 11,414,000 60,000 16,808
1944 .. 10,863,000 180,000 16,839
1945 .. 9,653,000 523,000 17,020
1946 .. 10,430,000 756,000 17,008
1947 .. 10,724,000 959,000 17,204
1948 .. 10,467,000 1,254,000 17,823
Average 10,957,000 541,000 17,048
During the seven years’ preceding
“Labor” rule, 1935-41, the averages were:
Per P.c.
Output man- mech.
(no opencuts). shift. handled. Employed.
9,949,000 3.40 7.56 14,956
Not only did the miners work more
slowly (output per man-shift) during
“Labor’s” seven years than during the
previous seven, but the tonnage lost
through strikes steadily increased. Ex-
pressed as percentage of actual output,
this loss rose sharply from 6.1 per cent, in
1942 (invasion year and Curtin’s first
year) to 19.4 in 1945; then in 1946 it
dropped to 8.5 (year of the Coal Board
Act), and rose again to 10.8 in 1947 and
13 per cent, in 1948. The average loss
through strikes during the previous seven
years (including two big strike years
1938 and 1940) was 15.5 per cent, of
actual output.
All in, these are the fruits of monopoly-
control of coal-getting by a Communist-
run union. The Coal Tribunal has since
offered the miners another chance—with
the incentive of long-service leave—to
qualify for new benefits by an honest
week’s work.
No Go at Blair Athol.
Back in 1947 Australia was given a
vision of a vast opencut coalfield at Blair
Athol, in Queensland, where anything up
to 200,000,000 tons of good coal lies just
under the surface of the ground. There
came to Queensland T. J. Hirst, of the
English Electric Supply (Overseas) Cor-
poration, and presently it was announced
that by agreement with the Queensland
Government £18,000,000 would be spent,
a railway and a harbor built, and
3,000,000 tons of coal a year dug out.
Queenslanders believed fheir State was
on the verge of big things; Australians
in general believed the grip of the
Communist-run Miners’ Federation on
black coal was to be broken; and the
Communists were so scared that they
issued threats right and left that if any-
body tried to mine opencut coal without
their permission there’d be trouble.
Time passed. In the interval there
had been mysterious doings between
Queensland Premier Hanlon, the Prime
Minister, and Millar, Communist boss
of the Queensland mining union, and'it
came out during the recent coal strike
that the earlier plan for the Blair Athol
field to be worked by the A.W.U. had
been upset and the working handed over
to the Communist outfit.
In the interval, also, Mr. Hanlon,
having gone to England for the Empire
Parliamentary Conference, returned some-
what evasive about Blair Athol, but
soon was admitting that he’d seen
the English principals and that a new
scheme was afoot—a new British group
was interested; the original concern had
(Continued at foot of next page.)
THEY WONT BE HAPPY TILL THEY GET IT.


For your throat’s sake
CRAVENA
Always reliable
Obtainable In
10’s & £o’s
CARRERAS LIMITED ■ OVER 150 YEfIRS REPUTfITION FOR QUAUtY)
B9OSISWR
discovered it hadn’t the equipment for
the job; the new group. Power and
Traction Finance Co., would examine
Blair Athol and take over the original
option.
All that has now gone up the spout.
Mr. Hanlon has had to tell his Parlia-
ment that P, and T.F. Co. reckoned it
would cost £25 million to produce Si-
million tons of coal a year, that it could
not do the job and doubted if any other
private concern could find the capital to
do it. The co. said something else:
We desire to emphasise that we have no
doubt whatever that it must be to the true
interests of Queensland and of all Aus-
tralia that the important and relatively
easily-won coal deposits of Blair Athol
should be exploited on a large scale.
Mr. Hanlon said there were now two
alternatives. One, for the Federal and
State Governments and the co. to find
the £25 millions; the other, to erect a
big power plant at the field to generate
and distribute electricity throughout
Queensland. At the weekend he had a
third: a “valuable proposal” from two
English firms which is to go before J. R.
Kemp, Co-ordinator-General of Public
Works.
Meantime, 200,000,000 tons of “good
average steam coal” stays just below the
earth’s crust while Australian industry
starves for the want of it.
POLITICAL POINTS
Protesting he would ne’er consent, Sir
Stafford Cripps has consented to devalue
the pound sterling. Actually, that is over-
stating the importance of his broadcast
announcement; the British Government
has not so much devalued its currency as
recognised a depreciation which already
existed. Even Socialists cannot ignore in-
definitely the economic truths of inter-
national trade. Cripps has struggled hard
to avoid devaluation—he was reported to
have said he would resign rather than
accept it—but harsh reality has forced
him to accept the inevitable. The same
cannot be said with equal force of Mr.
Chifley’s decision to follow Britain down
the dollar path so as to maintain the
present Australia-London exchange rate.
Almost the only income-tax concession
in the latest Federal Budget is an increase
from £lOO to £l5O in the allowable de-
duction for life-assurance premiums and
contributions to superannuation funds.
Almost the only people who will benefit
from the alteration are Federal Parlia-
mentarians whose three-pounds-a-week-
gets-you-eight pensions scheme is already
financed by the taxpayer out of the £5OO
rise they granted themselves not long
before the plan was introduced. In look-
ing after his own the Devil has nothing
on Canberra.
Chifley may have intended to lie doggo
on Bank Nationalisation until after the
elections, but Eddie Ward had no such
thought. On Thursday he told the Reps,
that if the Australian people continued
to return Labor Governments there was
no reason why “Labor” should not carry
out its pledge to socialise the banks, even
though there might be temporary setbacks.
Twelve months ago Ward told a Sydney
Trades Hall audience:
Irrespective of the decision of the Privy
Council, once Labor has spoken and said
the banks are to be nationalised the issue
is beyond doubt. It is only a question of
when we shall be able to do it.
That puts on record beyond all doubt
the Minister’s attitude on this subject.
Fair enough, provided the Government
now as plainly tells the electors what it
intends to do in regard to banking if
returned to power. That is something it
did not do in 1946.
New Zealand is to have its general
election on November 30. Australia’s is
timed for December 10, so that within the
space of a fortnight “Labor” will be up
for judgment on both sides of the Tas-
man. The Socialists have been in power
in Maoriland since 1935, but the last time
they faced the electors they had a close
call. The European vote was equally
divided —“Labor” 38 ; Nationalists 38 —
but the four Maori electorates were solid
for “Labor,” so the Government survived.
The Canberra Socialists will be anxiously
awaiting the result of the poll in New
Zealand; a defeat for the party there
could easily be the writing on the wall
for the local boys. Of course, that diffi-
culty could be obviated by advancing the
date of the Federal election to, say,
November 26, but if Chifley does that he
will be virtually admitting that he fears
defeat.;
In view of the narrowness of Fraser’s
majority the resignation from the party
last month of F. Langstone, who holds
one of the Auckland seats, must have
given the New Zealand Prime Minister
a headache. Langstone, a former Minister
and High Commissioner in Canada, broke
with Fraser on the conscription issue and
intends to contest his old seat as an In-
dependent. This could easily result in a
Nationalist win on the split vote.
It isn’t only in N. S. Wales that horse-
racing has become a matter of high
politics. Last July the Queensland Turf
Club banned place-betting. According to
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” some “Labor”
Ms.L.A. have been trying to get the
Hanlon Government to have it restored.
Ex-Transport Minister E. J. Walsh, now
A.L.P. organiser, criticised the move in
a Sunday paper, saying that he wished to
protest against the attempt being made
to use the Parliamentary Labor party as
the medium through which the interests
of a small section of the racing community
might be peddled.
This brought a counterblast from Acting-
Speaker Mann, one of the members re-
ferred to in the article. He attacked
Walsh in caucus and read a bitter attack
on him. After Hanlon had agreed that
Walsh’s action would be discussed by the
central executive Mann “dramatically
burnt the statement he had read to
caucus.”
The Prime Minister in one of his
Reports to the Nation last December;
A condition of full employment exists
today, and it is the policy of the Australian
Government to maintain this position. So
far as we can influence the course of events,
we will never allow the situation which
arose during the years of the depression to
recur. Today, less than 1000 persons are
in receipt of unemployment benefits in
Australia and we are in a better position
than we have ever been before as regards
unemployment.
Six months of full employment passed
quickly by; six months in which the
Government continued its policy of
treating Communism as a “political philo-
sophy.” The seventh month found full
employment gone with the wind and
more persons on the dole than in the
depth of the depression ; this month saw
Canberra paying out £8 million to re-
imburse the States for coal-strike losses.;
It is no us© Chifley denying that
his Government influenced “the course
of events” which led the country into the
mess.
Somebody ought to ask the Govern-
ments which is the best, to let the petrol
situation battle along as well as it can
without rationing or to introduce rationing
and with it the blackmarket and associ-
ated forms of skullduggery. A people
and Governments with any sense of
morality wouldn’t have rationing on at
any price except as the very last resort.
If it is the last resort, then penalties for
blackmarketing, trafficking in and forging
of coupons and all the rest of it should
be made so severe as to discourage the
most hardened racketeer.;
The Federal Government’s determina-
tion to hang on to any powers it got out of
the war until literally forced to surrender
them should make the States mighty care-
ful about any referring of petrol-rationing
powers. There will have to be stringent
provisions as to length of time ; indeed,
it would be well to limit the period to a
year at most, renewable if necessary.
A lot of wheatgrowers are still trying
to work out how much the coal strike
cost them. A great deal of wheat from
last harvest was still at country depots
and had to stay there, road-transport
charges and shipping demurrage were in-
curred, all of which, together with what-
ever loss there’ll be through the delay in
shipments under the International Wheat
Agreement (wheat shipped after August
1 dropped about 3s. a bushel) will have
to be borne by growers. N.S.W. will
probably suffer most, since it had five or
six million bushels still in the country and
its railway system hasn’t been able to
handle wheat efficiently for years.
Recent wheat-saving rains look like bring-
ing in another good harvest on top of the
last season’s wheat still awaiting ship-
ment.
Maxie Falstein hasn’t allowed the loss
of a preselection ticket for the Canberra
stakes to kill his ambition ; he has nomi-
nated for the vacancy on the committee
of the Sydney Turf Club. There should
be a good opening there for the right
man; after all, the founder of the show
became Governor-General.
With price-control gone from land
and property in New South Wales,
Victoria, South Australia and West-
ralia it looks as though Queens-
land is about to follow suit. Prices
Minister Devries told a deputation that
he was in favor of lifting as many controls
as possible. He thought de-control might
mean an immediate “spiral in prices, but
it could be possible that prices would
stabilise themselves.” That seems to have
happened in the other States, where pro-
perties are fetching prices considerably
above the previously pegged level, but
below the blackmarket range.
Last June the sugar peaks—limits of
production—of Queensland sugar mills
were increased by 137,000 tons, thus
allowing the 32 mills in the State to pro-
duce 874,000 tons for home consumption
as against the previous 737,000 tons. The
rise is expected to increase settlement
in the cane country, and under a new bill
returned-soldier settlers will be allocated,
as far as possible, 50 p.c. of new assign-
ments to grow cane. It’s very belated ;
but this is a Federal election year
and Dedman recently “toured the north.”
Racing to get in and out of Montreal
before the St. Lawrence freezes, the
Pioneer Star is carrying 75,000 cases of
Queensland pineapple products. The
shipment is worth 388,000 dollars and is
part of the pineapple’s contribution to
Australia’s dollar pool—about 2.25 mil-
lion dollars in a year. It suggests that
there might be other Australian fruits
which could be landed fresh in the midst
of the American winter, and earn dollars.
A Westralian concern has just com-
pleted a modern double-drum slipway
winch weighing 130 tons. Residents of
the “most highly-industrialised State in
the Commonwealth” will be surprised to
learn that the job was done for the New
South Wales Harbors and Rivers Depart-
ment.
Shape of things to come if the Socialist
dream of a nationalised medical service
is realised? Dr. Reilly, who was
appointed to Tennant Creek (N.T.) when
the outspoken Dr. Webster parted com-
pany with the Commonwealth Depart-
ment of Health, has thrown up the job.
He finds himself “unable to adjust him-
self to the department’s policy.”
Victoria hopes to be independent of
New South Wales coal for its gas supplies
by 1952, by which time it will be using
gas manufactured from brown coal. Tests
by German experts and by Powell Duff-
ryn, of London, have beep very favorable,
and the work is to be put in hand right
away. To begin with, briquettes will be
used at a South Melbourne plant, but
the ultimate plan is to pipe the gas to
Melbourne from Yallourn.
The Broadcasting Control Board might
have the power to compel radio-stations
to give time on the air to political party
leaders in an election-time, but so far
neither it nor anyone else can compel us
to listen. That will perhaps come when
Socialism reigns supreme.
According to the chairman of a British
sugar company, his board will “carry on
until the day comes when the planners
and the public-relations officers file into
our place and start organising production
with minutes and memoranda.” On that
day, he says, his board will walk out.
“Minutes and memoranda” are what all
these Socialist boys use to stimulate pro-
duction, which is why production is where
it is.
A hundred and fifty-two years last
Monday coal was first discovered at New-
castle (N.S.W.). In recent years the
coalies have made every effort to see that
it stays there.
The dailies continue from time to time
to quote McAlpine and similar minor
“Labor” spokesmen about the inevita-
bility of industrial conscription under
Chifley’s “full-employment” scheme, but
they never seem to quote Chifley him-
self. The Socialist leader made his in-
tentions quite plain at die conference
which he and other Ministers attended
with the A.C.T.U. and other representa-
tives of trade-unions throughout Aus-
tralia, held in Sydney last October. The
purpose was to urge the unions to lift
limitations on production, and in answer
to questions about what would happen
when production fully satisfied demand,
especially under a “recession,” Chifley
said:
No guarantee can be given to anybody
that they will stay in a particular industry.
There will have to be transfers of workers,
and in many cases transfers of whole com-
munities, to other forms of work 1 am
not going to fool anybody in that regard.
It may even involve a plan of movable
towns....
That is a long-winded way of saying
that “full employment” means a man’s
taking any job he is sent to, anywhere,
and liking it.
Tackled on the Russian forced-labor
camps, a plausible party from Moscow
went through the motions of agreeing to
a U.N.O. inquiry provided it covered
forced-labor camps alleged to pollute
“capitalist” countries. A quotation fol-
lows :
It is well understood that the Russian
game is a long game. Its method is to
creep on a while, to spring a stage at a
fair opportunity, then to halt and look
pleasant. The process is repeated until the
time arrives when a rush may be made
from more than one well-prepared post of
vantage.
Pertinent to recent Muscovite manoeuvres,
it appeared in The Bulletin, in expan-
sion of a cartoon, “The Attitude of
Russia,” in the ’nineties. Tsarist or Com-
munist, the Bear doesn’t change.
One of the many by-paths encountered
by the U.S. House of Representatives Un-
American Activities Committee when it
set out to “explore all avenues” in search
of Communist doings led to the Rev.
Stanislaus Orlemanski, a Roman Catholic
parish priest of Springfield, Mass., and
Dr. Oscar Lange, former professor of
economics at Chicago University. Father
Orlemanski, in Russia at Soviet invita-
tion, broadcast over Moscow radio re-
assuring the Poles about the Kremlin's
intentions. When he returned to America
resident Poles complained about his acti-
vities ; his church suspended him, but he
was later reinstated. When Dr. Lange
came back from a visit to Moscow he
declared that Poland’s future lay in close
collaboration with the Soviet. He had
been naturalised in 1937, but he dropped
his U.S. citizenship, became Polish
Ambassador in Washington and chief
Polish delegate at U.N.0., ready to vilify
America and Britain any time Vyshinsky
has a sore throat.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Spinifex”: I suppose we are a bit hard
to understand at times. At Sydney
G.P.O. a lass was wearily propping up
the building when a pal happened along.
“Hullo!” chortled the newcomer. “Are
you still here?” “No!” said the other
glumly. “I haven’t been here for three
months.” The inquisitor looked slightly
bewildered. “Well! Where are you
now?” she persisted. “Aw!” said
her friend, resignedly as she took the
full weight of the G.P.O. on her other
shoulder, “I thought you knew .. I’m in
Parramatta.”
* * * ♦
“Becks”: I’ll admit that Sydney’s
Municipal Library is overdue for replace-
ment, but I can’t accept the arguments of
one city alderman in support of that pro-
posal. His story was that he recently
went there to borrow a book, but found
the place so dingy and depressing that
he walked out again, bought the book at
“Peshaniki or musquash aren't flash enough for her now."
a bookshop and went into a park to read
it. He also complained of the odor of
wine which pervades the building. No
real booklover would be put off by dingi-
ness. Most second-hand bookshops are
dingy and musty, yet thousands of people
frequent them not merely to buy, but for
the pleasure of browsing among old
volumes. Mention of the park is irrele-
vant ; the alderman went to the library
to get the book, not to read it there. As
to the aroma of wine which floats up
from the cellars —judging by the rapt
looks on the faces of the regulars who
always seem to be loitering in the vesti-
bule when I go in to pay the fine on
overdue books, that seems to be an
advantage of the site rather than a draw-
back.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Telarb”: The trials we Torres
Straiters have to bear! The Murray
Island mob lost an anchor and chain from
the lugger Adiana, and instead of setting
out for Thursday Island for a replace-
ment, they sailed around Murray for two
weeks —the male population taking it in
turns to man the ship. She could not
be beached because of the reefs. Lord
knows how long they would have sailed
if a patrol ship had not arrived with an
anchor and chain to spare. ,
* * * #
“Melbn”: Melbourne’s Lud Mayor
Disney has sent a personal letter to mem-
bers of the Council, Labor ones excluded,
requesting them to wear Windsor Court
dress at the Lud Mayor’s banquet in
November, which coincides with the in-
stallation of the Lord Mayor of London.
The Governor, the Prime Minister and
members of his Cabinet, Lud Mayors of
all Australian cities and 600 leading citi-
zens have been invited, and the ceremony
will share the sex discrimination of abo.
initiation ceremonies, from which the
female eye is excluded. Councillor Dis-
ney is convinced that at least 50 p.c. of
members still retain their Windsors, and
with a little alteration at the waistband
it should be possible for the Council to
revive the glamor of tradition. “Sun-
Pix” appends to this epoch-making an-
nouncement a photo of A. W. Coles,
Australian Airlines Commissioner, in the
full regalia which he wore when a civic
daddy. After this, it can’t be said that
the late Councillor Connelly’s efforts to
achieve a Brighter Melbourne could com-
pare with Lud Mayor Disney’s. Mr.
Coles looks like one of Sir Robert Peel’s
policemen.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Like “Nota Bene” I am
rather cynical about Press photographs
and their captions (B. 31/8/’49); my
cynicism dates from the time my own un-
glamorous phiz appeared in a newspaper.
I was working on a Government project
when a voice came from the middle fore-
ground: “That chap will do.” I looked
up to see w'ho would do, and for what,
and found it was myself. A well-dressed
man sft. or 6ft. away was looking directly
at me, while from a range of five or six
yards a chap was levelling a camera.
“Mr. Dogsbody wants to talk to you,”
said the photographer. I turned to the
fellow he indicated. But the man acted
very strangely for a bloke wanting to
talk—he just stood and stared at me.
“0.K.,” announced the cameraman. Mr.
Dogsbody stopped staring and began to
stride off. “What’s the joke?” I de-
manded. “It’ll be in the Sunday ‘Blurb’,”
said the photographer as he trotted off.
It was—over the caption: “Mr. Dogs-
body, Minister for [something or other],
chats with a workman.” Apparently it is
good publicity for a politician to be
known as a democratic mixer.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: What was a “cold war” be-
tween Sydney daily and Sunday news-
papers warmed up with the advent of
spring. A few months back “Granny
Herald” heaved a rock into the placid
pool of the Sunday Press by coming out
with a “Sunday Herald,” comics and
all, and since “Granny” is the punters’
bible in the matter of s.p. betting the old
girl got such an edge on her rivals that
they had to publish all s.p. quotes in
sheer self-defence. Then the “Sun” broke
out with a Give-it-a-name competition
in which the lucky could win big money
for the outlay of a zac, a proportion
going to charity, whereupon the “Sun’s”
afternoon rival the “Mirror” followed
suit; so did the morning “Daily Tele-
graph.” “Granny” then produced a
Name-a-racehorse contest, in which
readers have to build a name from a
given sire and dam. Then the “Sun”
and “Mirror” upped their price to 3d. a
copy. Before “D.T.” could open its
mouth, “Granny” announced that she
“Would you mind closing it for a while—it makes me giddy"
proposed to remain the same price (2d.),
and “D.T.” perforce had to wistfully
count the extra pennies it couldn’t get.
The “Sun,” incidentally, said it had to
put up the price because of increasing
costs, and, when it did, introduced what
it called “new features.” All this was
simmering when, out of a clear sky,
“Granny” downed her Sunday issue
from 4d: to 3d., leaving “Sunday Sun,”
“Sunday Telegraph” and “Sunday Truth”
(“Mirror”) with the option of doing the
same or losing sales. When this was
written all Sydney was waiting the com-
ing Sunday with keen anticipation.
* * * *
“Helldud”: Butler the murderer (B.
7/ 9 / ’49) caused me, as a lad, several
nights of terror and sleeplessness. Be-
cause of his violent nature, jail officials
were taking no risks, and as the railings
of the dock at Darlinghurst court were
loose and stairs leading from dock to
underground passage to jail were riddled
by white-ants, replacement was ordered
before his trial. As offsider to Harry
Whitmann, an old German carpenter, I
was put on the job. Cramped space
slowed us down, and at 8.30 a.m. on the
day of the trial, after working all night,
we were applying the finishing touches.
In my youthful imagination I could see
the murderer coming along that tunnel
at any moment, and I was almost mute
with terror, but old Harry never batted
an eyelid. “Don’t vurry, son, led ’im
come. I’ll stick this chisel in his belly,”
said he. However, we got out with
minutes to spare. Replacement of those
old stairs was fully justified. Butler, on
being led from the dock after sentence of
death, staged a terrific struggle on the
new stairs. The old ones would almost
certainly have collapsed.
* * * *
“Zake”: As the apparition passed by
on the footpath everyone turned to stare,
to the obvious gratification of the appari-
tion. At first I thought the stares were
for the peculiar lop-sided way she was
walking; I realised it was the ha —well,
the thing on top of her head that was
the real cynosure when a girl near by
grabbed her friend’s arm and whispered
loudly: “Look, Beryl, that’s one of the
very latest Paris models —I’ll bet she
didn’t get that under twenty guineas!”
I took the thing in then. It seemed to
corrugate out one side for about a yard ;
there was nothing at all on the other side
except what looked like a dyed and de-
bilitated chook’s feather. Of actual cover-
ing for the bean there didn’t appear to be
any, I realised then why she walked lop-
sidedly. The design appeared to be the
effort of one who was still in the horrors,
and by proxy it might have been, for I
recall seeing a cabled item about designers
having gone to modernist and surrealist
painters for their “inspirations.” This
one seemed to be something that Salvador
Dali or Matisse might have seen after
a midnight gorge on tripe and cognac.
If the fashion spreads I foresee more
warnings to women by specialists to carry
counterweights in their handbags, other-
wise they’ll be in danger of developing
curvature of the spine—warnings which,
of course, will have about as much effect
on the sex as those about wearing stilt-
heels.
♦ * * *
“F.S.”: Two architectural events on
the same day recently stirred Melbourne.
One was the publication of the winning
plan for the new Western Market build-
ing for which the City Council had
offered £lO,OOO in prizes, and the other
was the photo in the “Herald” of a teapot
shaped like an English cottage. Indignant
readers complained that the teapot
was arty-crafty, and that it was
just as ridiculous to make a teapot
looking like a cottage as it was to
build a cottage looking like a tea-
pot. A retired sea-captain friend of
mine once contemplated building a house
in the shape of an elephant with a spiral
staircase up the trunk at the bow-end, and
the kitchen exit and all conveniences in
the sternsheets. It was a novel idea, but
he died before he could execute it, so
Melbourne lost a unique attraction, though
there- was nothing architectural about it,
any more than there is about the teapot
or the projected market. Although the
architect gets his inspiration primarily
from nature he doesn’t copy its forms in
that way or we would have Europe
covered with cathedrals in the shape of
cypresses and poplars and manor-houses
in the shape of cauliflowers and tulips.
The Western Market building, judging by
the drawing, will be just another addition
to the butterbox style of architecture.
* * * *
“Tummas McN.”: Canberra has just
informed me that Australians spent £6
million on hairdressing, £2.5 million on
getting their boots soled and heeled, £11.2
million on meals and beds in pubs, and
some other millions on other items during
1947-48. I’ve been trying to discover
what purpose it serves that a herd of
clerks, all drawing good pay and fre-
quent cups of tea, should spend the
nation’s time on finding out what it cost
the country to get its hair cut, but every-
body I’ve asked so far merely looks black
and mutters something about taxation.
* * * *
“Old Bill”: Days could be spent ex-
ploring Eurunderee (B. 14/9/’49), the
heart of the Lawson country, and its
surroundings and one would still leave
many a story untraced to its source. T.
D. Mutch and Frank Dalby Davison
have been all over the country, and have
givep excellent lectures on their dis-
coveries, but much tracing remains to be
done. Eurunderee has been well ex-
plored and the location of many a Lawson
yam and verse definitely established, but
the Gulgong series need similar sifting
and relating to their locations. Another
task that awaits some enthusiast is the
compilation of an index of place-names
and characters in Lawson’s works. He
took many of his characters —names and
all —straight from life, and he had the
habit of ringing the changes in names,
shifting known landmarks from one place
to another, or taking a character out of
his real setting and planting him else-
where. Compiling such an index should
be a fascinating task for anybody with a
liking for such literary problems.
BONNEY, CALLY AND PALLY.
“When asked by Mr. Archie Cameron, M.P., if
the Australian Director of Information in New York,
Mr. E. Q. Bonney, had invited the comic-strip
character, Joe Palooka, to spend his honeymoon in
Australia, the Minister for Information and Immigra-
tion, Mr. Oalwell, said: ‘I know nothing of the
plans of Joe Palooka and his girl-friend.’ ”
New York, Monday.
Blow, Calwell, blow the brash bazooka!
I’ve fixed it up for Joe Palooka,
With amorous Ann, his hard-won honey,
To honeymoon with you.
(Signed) Bonney.
„„ . . . Canberra, Tuesday.
What is this Joe (Pal) Ookah fellow —
Black or brindle, brown or yellow?
As for his visit, that’s as maybe—
I’m carrying nip Bonney baby;
Already that vile Liberal, Cameron,
Is asking questions; and he’ll hammer on;
So get the facts; don’t shilly-shally,
And maybe I won’t sack you—
Cally.
T , New York, Wednesday.
Im sorry you have had a shock, sir;
This Joe Palooka is a boxer;
His wife and he are famous sights, sir,
In daily strips, sir; black-and-white, sir;
And think of all the dollar money
They’ll bring out to Australia!
Bonney.
T ,„ . Canberra, Thursday.
What! Black - and - White! Then they’re
mulattoes!
I knew they weren’t the good potatoes!
And Boxers!—with those Chinese hellions
Raising petitions and rebellions!
And strippers, like those wanton larries —
I won’t say girls—l saw in Paris!
I won’t have any daily-strippers!
And why help honeymooning trippers
Who alienate resultant nippers,
Thus making a complete negation
Of both our means of immigration?
I’ll set them both a stiff dictation;
And tell Palooka, if I quiz him
And he gets through, by heaven, I’ll kiss him!
So nuts to Joe, and tillivalli,
And nuts to you,
Yours truly,
Cally.
New York, Friday.
Well, as you say, hey, nonny, nonny!
Your most obedient servant,
Bonney.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


STA? eS
b
Ili£V«v
£SV)
Facts you should know in the
interests of your Estate & your Dependants.
The informative booklet, “Trust Estates and Their Management,”
has been compiled to acquaint you with the facts and problems
connected with choosing your Executor and Trustee. This is a
matter which every prudent man must consider at some time. It
is a decision which vitally affects the welfare of your dependants,
and is therefore one about which every person should be fully
informed.
Write to-day for your copy of this free booklet ... or call and
discuss the matter personally with one of our Executive Officers.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W, Hixson , 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E.,
FJtA.CJS. J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle
Sub. Manager: S. U. White
Secretary: F. R. Garland
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LID.
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
*
ẁ
“P.0.M.C.”: Artist Such’s women in
the “Two angel’s kisses and a schooner of
plonk” sketch (B. 31/8/’49) recalled the
briefest and best description of the type
I’ve struck. Raymond Chandler, in his
smart-and-smug whodunit The High
Window, depicts a shining limousine “with
three dizzy-looking dames in the back
seat, all cigarettes, arched eyebrows and
go-to-hell expressions.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: I suppose it’s cruel of me,
but I couldn’t help grinning when my
Sydney paper, incidentally one that has
been slumming lately, and insisting that
slum-dwellers are really honest people
at heart, informed me that a herd of
children raided a load of nuts on a
motor-truck in an inner suburban street,
ate them, and promptly displayed all the
symptoms of a violent belly-ache. Two
or three adults also ate of the nuts, with
the same result. There was a positive
hegira to the nearest hospital by ambu-
lance, taxi, car and billy-cart, and a
force of doctors got busy with stomach-
pumps and emetics. It came out that the
nuts were from the tung-tree, and are
crushed for a stringent oil which is the
basis of paints and varnishes. Reports
conflicted as to whether the kids pinched
the nuts while the carter’s back was
turned or had the things given to them;
at any rate, somewhere about 30
youngsters shared in the feast, of sorts.
* * * *
“Bo”: Walls and fences around
Sydney’s suburbs are still made hideous
by yard-high “messages” which furtive
Comrades plastered in whitewash during
their coal strike —one of the biggest, on
a high wall along one side of Callan Park
Asylum, still adjures workers to “Rally
against the Coal Barons.” But Joe’s
Fifth Column don’t always have it their
own way. On the long fence of a brick-
pit in an outer suburb the painted slogan
“Read the Tribune, the only organ of
the workers” has been left intact, but
with this addendum: “Can only be played
between the cracks. Flat.”
♦ ♦ * *
“Laetitia”: The back country is poorer
for the passing of the old-time C.P.S., who
was an integral part of the township life.
The new race of magistrates may be
sounder in law, but it is poorer in human
understanding than the Beaks of a few
decades ago. I remember one of the
breed, who was prevailed upon to con-
duct a burial service—one of the very
few tasks not statutorily prescribed as
part of his duties. Not relishing the task
he adjourned to the Shearers’ Arms in
search of Dutch courage. So successful
was his quest that he forgot the reason
which had motivated it, and went back to
his entering-up of the Register of Births,
Deaths and Marriages. Meanwhile the
cortege was at the cemetery and the
corpse lowered before it was discovered
that he was missing. After a frantic car
dash to town he was shanghaied into the
vehicle and raced back to the cemetery.
In negotiating a culvert the bump pre-
cipitated the C.P.S. against the hood and
thence to oblivion, necessitating another
dash to the Shearers’ Arms for restora-
tives before the ceremony could be per-
formed.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Curate’s Egg”: Good journalist-
material (B. 7/9/’49)? Once knew a
country editor who had the knack of
discerning the newsman in embryo, how-
ever unpromising the prospective scribe’s
appearance. Seeking a new copy-boy
from among a batch of school-leavers
“He'll come to a sticky end —you mark my words!”
sent him by the high school, the editor
ignored the neatly tumed-out youths with
top marks in essay-writing, and chose
the loutish specimen with the drooping
cigarette, who, to all appearances, was
endeavoring to live up to the maxim that
for a journalist there is no such thing as
a misspent youth. The choice seemed
vindicated by the lad’s early performances,
and there came the day when he was en-
trusted with his first major assignment—
covering a race meeting in an adjoin-
ing town. The cub turned in a strictly
formal account of the carnival, but the
rival sheet came out with a sensational
story of the disqualification of a jockey
for riding a dead-’un. To an irate demand
for an explanation the lad replied simply
“It was me they sent out for life.”
* * * ♦
“Chevroford”: Melbourne has been
keenly watching the high-pressure un-
loading operations of the Queenscliff
syndicate of eight men who bought for
£950 the freighter Time, stranded on
Corsair Reef at the entrance to Port
Phillip. They were smiled on by fortune.
The quietest August for 50 years gave
smooth seas for the three shark-boats, and
within a fortnight half the timber cargo,
58 tons of bullock-hides and 80 bags of
stock-meal had been lifted. There are
still the internal fittings and machinery of
all sorts to be extracted before the
October tempests throw the wreck further
up on the rocks or sink her under 1000 ft.
of water.
* ♦ * ♦
“Mullum”: “Bo’s” caustic comments
on Tin Pan Alley (B. 31/8/ ’49) suggest
that he does most of his listening with the
wireless turned off. There is a record,
popular at the moment, which should
meet the demands of his sense of humor.
Entitled “Pearly Maud,” the tune has a
vaguely familiar sound. Half - way
through the disc the original tune is sud-
denly made clear: “ Parlez-moi d’amour.”
The average crooner would make that
sound very like “Pearly Maud,” and then
you begin to see the other sly digs at
“popular music” in the recording. The
second hearing is more enjoyable than the
first, for there are a number of little jests
which you missed the first time.
♦,♦ ♦ •
“Pongo”: Umbrella - carrying (B.
31/8/ ’49) ? As an addict of 54 years’ ex-
perience I recommend several methpds to
“Zake.” When unhampered by parcels
it may be carried “at the trail” with
dignity and decorum. By way of varia-
tion the ferrule-end may be thrust up the
sleeve and the crook grasped comfortably
in the hand, or, if short of arm, the handle
clasped just below crook. Even when
bearing a large portmanteau in one hand
and several bottles of lunch under the
other wing, the brolly is invariably part
of my equipment. Method; Hook the
crook into the armhole of the coat, inside
coat pocket, or top kick of vest and
button up coat. I evolved this method 50
years ago. As president of the Dunners
and Debt Collectors’ Association, it had
been my practice to insinuate the end of
my gamp into cautiously-opened doors,
to prevent their being closed by irate
clients. Maintenance costs proved terrific,
so I adopted the armhole-system, and
instead of sticking the gamp inside the
opening door I held my collecting-book
there with the left-hand, while the right
grasped the door-knob and pushed
strongly against the client.
* ♦ * ♦
“Petrie”: Bad as the Kempsey flood
was it did not approach the record of
the disastrous Brisbane floods of ’93,
when, early in February, more than 70in.
of rain fell around Ipswich, and a wall
of water 6ft, high roared down on Bris-
bane. Almost file entire city was inun-
dated ; houses and bridges went by the
board; even substantial stone build-
mgs came down as water undermined
their foundations. The Governor woke
one morning to see a 4in. gun leering
through his window; during the night the
waters had snatched the gunboat Gay-
undah from her moorings, carried her
across the submerged Botanical Gardens
and left her on the lawn outside Govern-
ment House. The Defence Department
arranged with a salvage firm to refloat
her; but 10 days later the waters rose
again and carried her back to the river,
leaving the contractors £6OOO the richer.
The greatest loss of life came after the
peak of the floods had passed. The Vic-
toria Bridge had gone the way of the
rest, and a punt running on a wire had
been put in to carry traffic temporarily.
A steamer with more than 300 people
aboard was swept down on to the wire,
capsized, and drowned many of her pas-
sengers.
“C.A.G.”: To “B. A. Ker’s” lead-foil
tube complications (B. 31/8 / ’49) could be
added others even more horrible if local
food manufacturers followed the Swiss
in putting up small quantities of tomato-
sauce, anchovy-paste and even butter in
lead-foil tubes. As I cycled out of well-
nourished Switzerland into hungry France
a couple of years ago I found these tubes
a convenient substitute for bottles and
jars. It wasn’t so good later when in the
failing light I grabbed the tube of
anchovy-paste and tried to stick a patch
on my bicycle-tube,
* * * ♦
“G’roper”: Such’s drawing of the
imaginary antics of steam-shovels and
coal-grabs must have inspired a Fre-
mantle Harbor Trust gantry-crane which,
armed with a coal-grab, was at work
dipping down to the bottom, clearing out
the debris that collects along the shipping
berths. All sorts of things come up, as
a rule —mud, lumps of coal, ropes, timber,
pots and pans, cups, dishes. But recently
the grab brought up, all alive and flap-
ping, a 1201 b. stingray.
* * ♦ *
“Melbn”: The mantle of prophecy
once fell on the Melbourne “Herald”:
On Monday, Mr. J. B. Kirk sold
privately a one-year-old ram, the produce
of the pure Merino imported by Messrs.
Barker and Riley, for the sum of £lO.
This speaks trumpet-tongued in favor of
these gentlemen’s importation, which can-
not fail to be of great importance to the
woolgrowers of the province.
The item was printed in the issue of
September 10, 1849, when the “Herald”
was a morning paper
* * ♦ ♦
“Hyanlo”: The pert young miss with
her arm in a sling evidently knew the
tram-conductpr, for as she clambered
along the footboard she favored him with
a smile and “Good day, Brian.” Brian
smiled back and his lips moved, but the
noise of the tram stopped me from hear-
ing what he said. Apparently the young
lady heard, as she brightly answered “I
fell off a horse.” Again the lip movements
and the answer, a little louder —“Fell off
a horse.” A third time he tried, and I
fancied her voice was becoming a little
shrill. With a wearied look the trammie
waited for the next stop. We both heard
him clearly this time. “Yes, I know you
fell off a horse. Your brother told me
yesterday. But how far are you going?”
♦ * ♦ ♦
“X.S.”: During the war all that the
newspaper and clerical fuss about drink
did was to increase interest in drinking,
and a lot of people, especially women,
who never bothered overmuch whether
they had a drink or didn’t, became abso-
lutely obsessed with the subject. The
same effect has been produced by the rise
in prices. As the price goes up so does
the drinking population, and you have
to be a hero to get a position near the
trough in any swillery. Yet nothing,
apparently, will induce the average Aus-
tralian drinker to sample the wines of the
country, though they are now cheaper
and have more variety of flavor than the
beer, which has become standardised by
monopoly. When the beer is off, the bar*
are almost empty.
QUITE IN ORDER.
“An Auckland magistrate, fining a Maori £2 for
beating his wife with an iron bar, said it was
proper that at times a man beat his wife, but it
must be done as a service of love and not in
temper. He should* have used a reasonable-sized
sUck.’
If, after you’ve pondered the matter,
And calmly appraised all the facts
Away from the clang and the clatter,
And deemed she’s been guilty of acts
Reprehensible, strictly be guided
By this : never use the fid-glove,
But a fairly thick waddy—provided
It’s done in the service of love.
It’s fatal to fly off the handle,
To froth at the mouth and to swear
While lamming her hide with your sandal
Or yanking out hanks of her hair.
It might be performed, say, while laughing,
For Beaks like the calm, cheerful cove
Who, after a session of strafing,
Assures her it’s “service of love.”
The need for chastisement’s apparent
In conjugal life. Pecked by hen,
He’s a worm of a husband who daren’t
Belabor his “strife” now and then!
But let him, in deep meditation,
Wield stick, or a pipe from the stove,
Reflecting that such expiation
Is simply a service of love.
Above all, there’s no need to worry—
If bruises or weals make it plain
That you have been handing out curry
To Dorothy, Phyllis or Jane.
For the Bench gives benign recognition
To beltings—so long as you prove
You’ve adhered to this vital condition:
You’ve done it in service of love.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: ]’m disgusted with
present-day inhabitants of the Murray
Valley. All they can dig up to startle
visitors and newspaper reporters is a
bunyip. A bunyip! I suppose 963
bunyips have been seen in my
time, and it’s a serious reflection
on both the imagination and leg-
pulling powers of Murraysiders that
whereas there have been Tantanoola
tigers, Clarence crocodiles, reindeer at
Junee, a grampus in the Hopkins, a whale
at Wilcannia, a man riding a white bull
through Wagga, banshees at Bathurst and
mysterious feluccas on the Lachlan, to
say nothing of a multitude of other
apparitions in various parts, all the
Murray can throw up is a bunyip. I’ve
seen funny things in the Murray myself,
drunk and sober, but never, never would
I so belittle the old river as to claim to
merely having seen a bunyip. From
Tapalin to Ned’s Corner and back to
Pentland Island they’re as common as
rabbits. Yet Melbourne “Argus” was so
startled by the news that it located Deni-
liquin on the Murray, a geographical feat
no bunyip ever achieved.
* * * *
“Tarbush”: According to the pigeon-
fancying fraternity, their potential pie-
fillers are miracles of avian sagacity. If
it is based on the birds’ ability while
flying at a good height to size up quickly
the possibility of obtaining a free meal
I’ll concede the claim. This house
happens to be dumped in the middle of a
10-mile plain in an uncrowded situation
halfway between Adelaide and Oodna-
datta. When Adelaide pigeons are re-
leased from a northern siding to dodge
whirlwinds and falcons on the long trip
home a percentage of the brainier birds
stop en route for a spell and a bit of
tucker. Owing to the prominence of my
domicile in the circumambient space, I
become too often an involuntary host.
As a result, my chooks’ feed-bills are
astronomical, my hens are pining away
from sheer jealousy as well as malnutri-
tion, and slowly, slowly, my mind is
turning to pigeon-pie.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“1 Bottle King”: ’Ere I wanner tell
that “Bo” bloke (B. 14/9/’49) he ain’t
seen many Joe Blakes iffee nerrer saw one
diggun it’sh own ’ole. I’m sittin’ ’ere
wi’ a borrel o’ bombo on the Wampoo
Creek an ’there’sh a flamin’ big black
one wirrer a green ’ead shtandin’ onnised
an’ spinnin’ like a post-’ole auger, borin’
’is way innera shand analot o’ yaller
fellers ish shweepin’ up the shand in
bakin’-powrer-tins an’ plantin’ flamin’
sheran—sheranyums in it; bloomin’ dirry
big sheranyums, all purple an’ pink!
* * * *
“B, A. Ker”: The old weatherboard
place had been our home nearly 30 years
before ; to help to demolish
it seemed equivalent to sel-
ling a faithful old horse to
a knacker. But the con-
tractor needed a man and I
needed a job. Strangely,
the rooms brought back
few memories (after all, it is
the furnishings and the
people that make home),
and it wasn’t until we began
to tear up the floor that
recollections came tumbling
over themselves. “Under
the house” —it was the
dog’s kennel, the cat’s
maternity home, the wood-
shed, Dad’s storehouse
and his toolshed. A crude rack
made of battens nailed to the
joists recalled that it was made
to carry Dad’s bamboo fishing-rod
as well as the rake and hoe. Our play-
house and refuge was under the house.
To my shame I remember refusing to go
to school, and defying Mum from a safe
haven far back in the forest of piles. It
was my bad luck that Dad came home
from work, for some reason, and proved
to be a faster runner on all fours than
I was. After 30 years a bearer still
carried the chalked sign: “Smuggler’s
cave. Keep out.” It was my brother’s
writing. Another scribble was unread-
able—even at the age of 10 I showed
promise of developing into what I am
today: the worst handwriter in Aus-
tralia. But when the contractor found a
barrow-wheel threaded on the water-
service pipe he grinned at me inquiringly.
At first I couldn’t supply the information,
then suddenly the incident burst out of
the fog. A marvellous moment in our
lives: we were getting the water laid on
—water in pipes! No distinguished
guest could have been made more wel-
come than that plumber. A ring of kids
watched him screw three lengths of pipe
together and push them under the house
from kitchen to laundry. He’d been gone
three days when Dad went to pull the
barrow out from its usual shelter. It
wouldn’t move more than a foot—the
plumber had shoved his pipe through the
wheel. Dad, when he’d calmed down,
took the line of least resistance: a new
wheel for the barrow.
* * ♦ ♦
“Orni”: That par, about the kooka-
burra falling off a breaking limb and
refusing to join in the laughter of its
mates (B. 14/9/’49) is amusing, though
wide of the mark in suggesting that
kookas laugh because they’re amused.
Birds haven’t the quality of amusement
or the capacity to be amused. The
kookas’ so-called laughter is nothing more
than its song, and has no more hilarity
in it than the call of the mopoke or the
carol of the wippegong. Wagtails are
accused of being comedians ; so are cock-
atoos, and the kookaburra is, to human
eyes, a funny -looking bird. So, for that
matter, is the redleg. We can laugh at
all of them and about all of them, but
let nobody believe that birds are humor-
ous ; their lives are too deadly serious
for that.
* * *
“Wippegong”; Stay around the coastal
strip and you might be forgiven for
thinking the only birds in this land to
build mud-nests are peewees and the
swallow tribe; across the Divide, how-
ever, two other fowl are now busy on
pise homes. Oddly, both birds live in
colonies. The white-winged choughs
—sometimes called black magpies,
which they are not retain the
habit right through the breeding
season; a whole tribe gets to work
and, on a high horizontal branch, builds
a great bowl. More than one hen
contributes to the clutch, and this
in turn calls for a united family
effort at incubation —there is always a
broody handy when the bird on the eggs
shows signs of moving. All the sisters
and cousins and aunts assist at feeding the
brood, uttering their dreary wail or sharp,
rasping reproach according to whether
"It Was only half that size when I started ."
they’re bored with domestic drudgery or
sensing intrusion, and the youngsters
growing up under those conditions natur-
ally feed, fight and live as a flock. "The
other mud-hut maker is the Apostle Bird
—Grey Jumper, Lousy Jack, etc. —with-
out whose cheerful company no western
backyard is complete. His humpy is
about as wide as a peewee’s but not so
deep; he seems to be able to talk his
relations into helping him build it, but
so far as I can see the pooling of marital
joys ends there. A confiding little cuss,
his nest is usually more accessible than
that of the chough; anyway, he prefers
the view from the ground and probably
sees no reason to depart far from it.
“Have a chaser on the house!"
“Telarb”: When Big Chief Gub’mint
kicked social benefits up a few bob, one
islander store-manager up this way,
who credits the passbooks, decided to
do a bit of good for himself. Collect-
ing all passbooks, he withdrew from
each a lump sum. Signatures were easy
to obtain. Say “Sign here” to an islander
and he will sign his own death-warrant.
A few did buck, but to these he
explained that the Gub’mint had
decided to increase the money, so “he
had to take money out of their pass-
books to make room for the big money.”
Which explanation they accepted. For
sheer naivete the islander is superb.
* ♦ * *
“Bats”: Stand off and listen to a
flying-fox camp and you’ll jump to the
conclusion they’re fighting all the time
—the noise sounds like a huge piggery
in the distance. But the chief cause of
their shrill screams and protests is mos-
quitoes. The fruit-bat hangs by his legs
with his wings folded about him. He
having thus no limbs or tail with which to
sweep himself, the ’skeeters and sandflies
have an open go, and his huge wings
haven’t even the protection of hair to
guard against the jabs.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Scientists have dis-
covered two more huge faults in the
earth’s surface, created possibly at a time
when the mastodon was confiding to the
sabre-tooth that the old terra was feel-
ing remarkably firm, considering. It still
feels firm, and it’s hard to realise that
the target at which we are so non-
chalantly preparing to hurl our atom-
bombs is a delicately-poised assortment of
blocks floating on a sea of lava. The
outer portion of the crust, varying in
depth to about 40 miles, is predominantly
silica and alumina —hence,
Sial, It is fairly low in
specific gravity. Sima, the
silica-magnesia layer on
which the Sial layer floats,
has a higher specific gravity
—naturally—and is darker
and more alkaline in com-
position. Granite is typical
Sial. Diorite and basalt ori-
ginated in Sima, whence
they were hurled in some
prehistoric cataclysm. Con-
tinents represent blocks of
Sial floating on a sea of
Sima, shallow blocks such
as Australia floating at less
depth and balancing deep
blocks such as the Hima-
layas floating at greater
depth. The baseline deep
in the earth, at which this
balance ig achieved, is
known as the Isopiestic
level. Seismic phenomena
(earthquakes, faulting, etc.)
arise largely from this
sostatic balancing process.
At the moment a per-
ceptible redistribution of weight is
occurring in Australia, due to the
accumulation on the continental
shelves of sediment conveyed there
by rivers. It takes a lot to upset
an easygoing continent like this, and
the effect of the redistribution won’t
be apparent for a million or go years.
A pity.
“Billy T.”: In Rangoon 1 saw
crows serving themselves on the
counters of the butchers’-shops. That
was just after the 14th Army had “re-
taken the town—the Japs having evacu-
ated it five days earlier—and the “shops”
mentioned were the first to reopen; they
consisted of planks resting on petrol-
drums and were stocked with a couple of
partly-skinned goats and about a quarter
of dark, lean beef. Joints were carved
at one end, scraps that couldn’t be sold
as anything else grew to a pile of “mince”
at the other end, and bones were chucked
in a heap at the rear; so the crows
hopped wherever the customer wasn’t.
I hey preferred the mince—it was in nice
sizes ready to gulp; but if mince was
being pawed over they’d tear at the
joint, with an overflow-meeting in pro-
gress on the bones. Those temporarily
sated withdrew to the mango-trees above,
and from there contributed further to
the unhygienic condition of the premises;
but such details passed unheeded in a
city which, at that time, could only have
been cleansed by a flood or a fire or both.
* * * ♦
“Trim”; Shaggy had the job of selling-
up Gillbraith’s “estate” on the outskirts
of the town —a rood of good earth and an
old iron hut —and was looking it over
when along comes Ned Fisher. “’E
sure came down in the world, now,
didn’t ’e?” says Ned. “Forty years ago
’e owned ’arf the town. The only store,
the garridge, the butcher’s, a block of
shops and ’arf a dozen ’ouses. Real ol’
churchie and the worst wowser in the
town. Wouldn’t go within forty foot of a
pub in case the fumes ’it ’im. Then one
night ’e ’as toothache. Wasn’ no den-
tis’ ’ere then. Somebody puts ’im on to
the brandy-and-port cure, and Gillie
sneaks in the back of the Railway and
’as one. It seems ter do ’is tooth
good. So ’e ’as another. An’ ’e never
stopped. Did the store, then the garridge
and the shops and went and bought a
paddick out of town and went cockyin’
in the ’ope of gettin’ away from it. But
pretty soon ’e does that too and finishes
up ’ere on the plonk.” “A pretty ex-
pensive sore tooth,” comments Shaggy.
“Aw, I dunno,” replies Ned. “’E never
’ad toothache from that night till the day
’e died.”
* * * *
“Knotter”; McCormick’s reaper,
demonstrated in Virginia in 1831 and
patented some time after, was a machine
to cut the crop a few inches above the
ground, thus saving the straw. From
it 40-odd years later was developed
the wire-binder and 50 years later
the twine-binder. With such machines
the crop, of course, had still to be
carted in and threshed. On the
other hand, Ridley’s stripper, demon-
strated one December 26 in the early
eighteen-forties, was a machine which left
the straw standing and took only the
grains and chaff. From this was de-
veloped, about 40 years later, the stripper-
harvester, which, in turn, gave place to
the header-harvester, now used for almost
the whole of Australia’s harvesting. Aus-
tralia’s direct-harvesting machine sacri-
fices the straw, but is very economical
as to labor. A somewhat different direct-
harvesting machine was developed in
California. Stage-harvesting, which re-
quires the binder for the first stage and
the thresher for the final, suits countries
where labor is plentiful, where grain does
not harden properly on the stalk, and
where the straw is required for fodder,
bedding and to form the basis of farm-
yard manure.
PELICANS.
Through the shallows paddling,
Nightmare creatures waddling . ,
Rippled water riding,
Smoothly, swiftly gliding,
Graceful necks held high,
Cruel, piercing eye—
Then the green world breaks!
Plunge the yellow beaks
On silver-dripping prey,
Gulls scream in, away .*. ,
Disdainful, sailing on,
Lightly as the swan,
See! they lift their wings,
Wind to water sings.
Raise your wondering eye
Where the giants fly,
Bank and veer as one,
Striking in the sun
With vivid black and white;
Soaring out of sight
Up, up a spiral stair
On curves of lifting air.
TASMANIA.
A. E. STURGESS.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SIDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
■TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER*
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURER*
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS : t PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
'SACKSOIS4’
OSUUJVAiV
L PlYtm a y
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Telegrams and Cables
*JACKBUL,” BRISBANE
%
'4%
%
n
o
%k
m
(
tig
Cargoes exotic and mundane
fly the Tasman daily. Speed
your goods or parcels to New
Zealand by T. E.A. L. air cargo
service. It costs only 3/2 per
pound (minimum 6/11).
Any office of Q.E.A. or T.A.A.
will despatch your cargo.
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITER
IN ASSOCIATION WITH Q.C.A. AND 8.0.A.C.
■w*
••si-”
40
THE
steps
GROW
steeper
WHEN steps seem a little
steeper, the days a little longer, the bustle of modern life
more irksome, it’s time to heed nature’s warning signals.
After 40, most men and women find their system requires
extra care . , . and thousands have found the help they
need in Wolfe’s Schnapps. Known and proved for genera-
tions, Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest of spirits, a safe
stimulant and diuretic, and possesses medicinal properties
found in no other spirit. With ice-cold water, soft drinks,
lemon or cordial, it is a pleasant drink and a tonic with
lasting beneficial effects. Some also prefer
Wolfe’s Schnapps hot with lemon at bedtime.
Available in large, half and quarter-size
bottles. Start the “small bottle test”
. . . to-day 1
WOLFE'S
czTnvimtc
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
r
h mi :'
m
wm
>h
mm
"Bo”; Into the little township drowsing
in the still noontide he shuffled, a dis-
pirited dog at his heels, and bearing his
drum and his nosebag. The place was
distinguished mostly by rusted iron-roofs,
fencing leaning at drunken angles, and
empty jam-tins and bottles tossed care-
lessly around. Filling his billy from the
tank at the back of the tumbledown
butcher’s shop the swaggie gathered some
chips and proceeded to build a fire on
what would have been the footpath if the
shire council had ever thought of putting
one down. He was just about to put a
match to it when the constable happened
to come along. “Y’ can’t build a fire
here,” he said. “Why?” asked the knight
of the road. “Well, it might cause a fire,”
the cop replied. The other pointed to the
expanse of bare ground around it.
“Nothin’ to catch alight,” he argued. But
the law was adamant. “The wind might
spread it to a house,” he said. “Ain’t no
wind,” returned the other relentlessly. It
was plain the law, worsted in polemics,
was becoming desperate. “Well, y’ can’t,”
he said firmly. “Why?” came the mad-
dening question again. “Well,” the con-
stable answered, “well, it makes the place
untidy !”
* * * *
“North”: A week or two ago the gibber
plains here were bare, and only the grand
mountain range, with its changing purple
lights that shade down to eggshell-blue in
the distance, gave rest to the eye. By
day dust blew in ugly red spirals whenever
a breath moved, and under the moon the
valleys between low foothills were eerie
with mists of pearly dust. Then came
the rain, and today the gibbers are scarcely
to be seen for the drifts of snow that are
in reality millions of tiny everlastings.
On the distant slopes it appears that the
gods have been spilling melted butter,
but a closer look shows miles of billy-
buttons and yellow daisies. Here and
there are vivid blue patches of geranium,
and all the watercourses have their own
show of the most brilliant Salvation Jane,
Soft green hazes the plain, and, perhaps
charmed by our landscape this year, a
few yards from the house a crimson chat
has set up housekeeping. The beautiful
little cock was on duty when I found him,
his head poised like a crimson flower
above the nest in the twisted bush.
Spring Outback is only an ephemeral
visitation, but very beautiful to watch.
* * * *
“T. 1.”: Eighty years or so ago the old
chiefs of Torres Strait Islands wore a
white-feathered headdress while out on
their headhunting forays; today their
grandsons wear a bright smile and a
white back-to-front collar when, as
Anglican parsons, they pay calls on
hospital patients, white and colored. The
first two of these native clergy were
admitted to Holy Orders in 1919 ; the last
three ordained (the Revs. Boggo Pilot,
Sagi Ambar and Wiwima Rai) bring the
number to nine. Sturdily-built fellows, they
are, like the rest of the islanders, excel-
lent seamen and good swim-divers ; they
receive a living allowance, but nothing
like what they might have made out
pearlfishing or beche-de-mering if they’d
chosen. The Torres Strait islanders are
now taking their own place in the Govern-
ment service as trained teachers, and in
various other capacities ; and one of these
days it is hoped to produce trained
medical practitioners and nursing-sisters
from among them —on some islands there
are already native women in charge of
the hospitals.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Snow has been extra-
ordinarily severe in the Gippsland Alps
country this season, and as a result
“MY blood group is ABI not ABO."
kangaroos, dingoes and the like have been
driven closer in. Their quest for tucker
is making them a great nuisance to
graziers that adjoin the bush. Run cattle
that were caught in the snow and eventu-
ally driven to safety'are also feeling the
effects. Large patches of bare hide show
where the hair has fallen out, and on
many the patches are turning to great
brown scabs, mute testimony of the frost
or snow-bite that got them. It seemed
at first that the only animals that would
weather the heavy fall were the rabbits.
Brer managed to find a bite of scrub and
bark, and survived for the time being,
but I find that even he cannot withstand
the intense cold. Skinning a number
caught recently in the top country, the
carcasses revealed that not only had they
been reduced to starvation-level, but the
flesh was a squashy, jelly-like mush, also
the result of snow-bite. Possibly a few
may survive, but in my opinion the
majority collected a delayed pass-out
check with the big fall.
* * * *
“Murrundi”; Old Ted, on a much-
discussed theme: “All the Guymint
want t’ do is pour them free drenches
into a bloke so he won’t have a chance
to collect the old-age pension. It’ll save
millions if they get their way.”
* * * *
“K.”: The Old Lady said it was going
to rain. The Old Man said as the Gov-
ernment prediction was that Sydney
should have a fine week-end, she was
probably right. The young cove from the
Riverina said he would agree with that
if only he could sight a lizard on a post,
infallible sign of rain where he came
from, but he had not seen one yet.
Various contributions about when the
last-heard jackasses laughed were dis-
missed as too vaguely timed or on other
grounds. The Old Lady sat silent till
they had all finished the subject and then
said: “I don’t care what the weather-
man says. Eight black cockies flew over
the house this morning and that means
eight days’ rain.” Arid, by cripes, at
the time of writing we’ve had five of
them.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: The best example
I’ve seen of a plant’s determination to
flower under difficulties (B. 24/8/’49)
was on a lawn which I’d neglected to cut
for some weeks, A dandelion was
blooming, and its foot-long stalk fell
before the mower. A week or so later
it reappeared, slightly shorter. After
each successive cutting that plant
flowered closer to the ground, producing
its final, and probably successful, blossom
safely protected by the thick pad of
buffalo-grass below the reach of the
mower. The flower was full-size and
perfect,
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: Saw something like
the ocean light described by “Standby”
(B. 17/8/’49) on the way to the Middle
East. It was on the trip that the Mary
and the Lizzie made together, and the
two big ships, drawn close together for
night travelling, ploughed through about
half a mile (my guess) of completely
luminous sea. The ships were plainly
visible, and would have made fine targets
for a waiting sub. At the time I attri-
buted the phenomenon to phosphorus,
but “Standby’s” par. has raised doubts.
Come to think of it, the display wasn’t
heightened around the ship’s wake, as it
would be in phosphorus.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Mac has a passion for
naming things. No living creature and
few things that stand or are used around
his little farm escape his nomenclature;
and the name can be apt, ridiculous,
satirical, humorous. The red Illawarra
bull is Commo; Thomas is the axe
(probably derived from “tommy-axe”).
Inviting me to go round the traps with
him, Mac went off to “get the Prime
Minister.” The P.M. turned out
to be a hurricane-lamp—so called be-
cause “I never saw it when it wasn’t
smokin’.” The blue heeler is called
Hickson —a name that had an annoying,
vague familiarity until my memory went
back nearly 30 years and recalled the
Evangelist Hickson; a different type of
healer.
* * ♦ #
“Moujik”: Few whites ever attain the
ability to make fire by aboriginal methods.
With the stick-saw, the tinder being held
in the cleft bottom stick, white arm-
muscles seem to succumb to fatigue just
at the critical moment when the generated
heat is about to set the tinder smoulder-
ing. With the anvil-and-drill method
results to the white are the same. To
be successful the drill must be pressed
downwards while being whirled between
the flat palms.. With a white the tendency
is to lift the drill; result, no friction and
no fire. But there is a method prac-
tised by the Arabs for ages. This is
similar to the aboriginal drill method, but
requires a top pressure board and a bow
with a loose string. Take a flat, dry
piece of soft wood as an anvil; a harder
piece, some 9in. long, for the drill. Drill
to be pointed on both ends, the bottom
end to fit into a countersink in the anvil.
A hard, flat piece, with a small counter-
sink, makes the pressure-board. Opera-
tion method is to take a loop of the bow-
string around the drill, and while pressure
is applied from the pressure-board whirl
rapidly with a to-and-fro motion of the
bow. In this way a great speed can be
attained at the point of the drill; the
movement of the bow, co-ordinating as it
does with white muscles, can be main-
tained almost indefinitely.
SEAWEED AND SEASPRAY.
ŵ
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


am
EXPEDIENCE
in the administration of
Pastoral & Farm Properties
The Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia's oldest Trustee Company, has a
svide association with the administration of rural properties. It provides: 9
• Efficient management.
• Safeguards the interests of dependants.
• Provides ample security for performance of trusts.
ẃ
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones.
General Manager; \V. Sydney Jones.
I BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £966,706.
lncorporated In Victoria in 1878.
NEW SOUTH WAEES DIRECTORS:
Dr. H. J, Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman) j
John Cadwailader; Sir Eeslie Morshead, K.C.8..
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., L.L.8., K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Powdery.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Commercial Banking Co. of Sydney \
Written
June, Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves
''£ £ £ £
1940.. 389,492 74 p.c. = 355,426 35,000 4,428,266
1941.. 384,589 74 „ ~ 355,426 35,000 4,422.429
1942.. 377,162 74 „ ~ 855,426 25,000 4,419,165
1943.. 374,098 74 „ „ 355,426 15,000 4,422,837
1944.. 379,823 74 „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,422,234
1945.. 384,777 74 „ „ 355,426 25,000 4,426,585
*946.. I*® 7 ’ 755 7 * » » 355,426 25,000 4,433,914
1947.. 393,293 74 „ „ 855,426 25,000 4,446 781
7* „ „ 367.237 25,000 4.457,279
1949.. 411,797 8 „ „ 379,121 25,000 4,464,955
What is the future of private banking in
Australia? Will it remain more or less
as it stands today, subject to a large
measure of Government direction and
control but still under private ownership
and management? Or will political
Labor ultimately succeed in nationalising
the trading banks? There are many con-
flicting factors at work, and many im-
ponderables have to be reckoned with.
The Privy Council’s rejection of the
Chifley Government’s appeal against the
earlier ruling of the High Court, declar-
ing nationalisation invalid, has settled the
matter so far as the present Parliament,
now in its final or pre-election session, is
concerned. This time factor has also
robbed the Government of the oppor-
tunity of gaining its ends through any
loophole there may be in the detailed
judgment, which has yet to be delivered.
Whether Mr. Chifley will accept the grace-
ful line of retreat with which the Privy
Council has provided him, or whether
he will make outright nationalisation a
plank in his election programme, remains
to be seen. It might well be that the
widespread and acknowledged unpopu-
larity of his ill-advised attempt in this
direction, which derived from nothing
more substantial than a fit of pique, will
cause him and his party to hesitate. It
is well to remember, however, that
nationalisation of the means of produc-
tion, distribution and exchange” is one of
the prime aims of political labor, and
that one of its Cabinet Ministers, the
übiquitous Mr. Ward, in last week’s
Budget debate, declared (“S. M. Herald”
report); “If the people continue to re-
turn us as a Labor Government pledged
to nationalise banking, why should we
not do it?” So, short of a change of
Government, the threat that the private
trading banks will be nationalised remains
a very real one.
Meanwhile the trading banks, whose
activities are circumscribed by the 1945
Banking Act, have adopted a forward-
looking, public-spirited policy, which aims
to co-operate with the central bank in
developing still wider and better service
to the public. Under the Act the Com-
monwealth Bank has become a newly-
embellished Government agency for con-
trolling the volume, nature and direction
of advances made by the trading banks,
the proportion of their deposits to be
lodged on “special” account with the
Commonwealth Bank, the rate of interest
they can charge for loans and pay on
deposits, and the volume of their invest-
ments in Government and other securi-
ties. And directives have been issued in
relation to all these matters. It is
thus plain that earnings, and therefore
distributions, of the trading banks are
controlled, though neither floor nor ceil-
ing is established for dividend rates. The
declared aim of present advance policy is
to avoid aggravating existing inflationary
pressures seekers of long-term capital
for development and new enterprises are
urged to look outside the banking system
for their requirements, primary producers
aie being encouraged to reduce overdrafts,
etc., and increase their equity in their
properties, and generally current expendi-
ture in excess of current income is
frowned upon. The trouble is that none
of this applies to the Government, which
is the greatest offender so far as inflation
is concerned. Forces outside the control
of our high priests of finance—the heads
of the Treasury and Commonwealth
Bank-can rapidly turn an inflationary
trend into a deflationary movement, ac-
companied by a cumulative decline in
incomes, employment and investment.
During the three years to mid-1948 the
central bank siphoned off into “special”
account, or immobilised, about 45 p.c. of
the growth in trading-bank assets (mainly
public deposits). There has been some
release of these frozen funds during and
since the coal strike. To meet legitimate
demands for accommodation beyond the
limits of official policy the trading banks
are not permitted to draw upon their
special” accounts, but are compelled to
accept deposits from the Commonwealth
Bank for the purpose at p.c. Among
other things, this has the effect of reducing
net earnings of the trading banks and of
increasing the profits of the Common-
wealth Bank, which doesn’t appear to be
bound by its own edicts in relation to
advances. Such obvious discrimination
against private enterprise in competition
with Government agency makes it easy to
appreciate how the influence of one
nation-wide bank, immune from competi-
tion, might be used to carry out the wishes
of its political controllers. For instance,
what redress would a trader have who had
deposited, say, £lO,OOO with a nationalised
bank which refused to allow him to draw
upon his balance according to his needs,
but offered to advance him its own funds
at 3j p.c.?
Last term an expansion of £17,311,908
in the C.B.S.’s deposits, etc., was accom-
panied by a growth of only £3,273,286 in
advances and of £13,272,903 in low-
interest-bearing liquids, which include
£44,350,000 (up £8,950,000) on “special”
account:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £4,739,013 £4,739,018 £4,739,013
Notes .. .. 13,519 13.517 13,517
Deposits, etc* 99,418,251 110,124,555 127,436,463
Liquids .. 71,356,594 77,438,204 90,711,107
Advances .. 35,353,210 40,171,727 43,445,013
Premises, etc. 1,026,041 1,001,541 1,041,441
Other assets.. 1,059,430 912,451 1,645,944
* Including provision for contingencies.
When the books closed advances and
liquids amounted to 34.1 p.c. and 71.7 p.c.
respectively of liabilities to the public.
It is an exceptionally strong position, and,
like the other trading banks, the co. is
well-equipped to come to the assistance
of trade and industry—within the limits
of official policy, of course—whenever
the need arises.
Net earnings, which appear to come
mainly, if not wholly, from returns on
investments other than advances, were
£9026 stronger at £411,797, equal to 8.69
p.c. on capital, or 4.47 p.c. on shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined).
The div, was lifted from 1\ p.c. to 8 p.c.
The co.’s £25 shares paid to £l2 10s.
each —the other £l2 10s. is reserve liability
callable only if needed on liquidation—
which advanced from £24 9s. to £24 155.,
cum final div. following the Privy Coun-
cil decision, now stand at £24 ss. in the
market, or 2s, above the official “floor”
prices under the now-invalidated Act.
The return at £24 ss. is 4.1 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
(book-value) is £24 ss. 6d.
Berlei, Ltd.
, Dividends
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£> £> £/£>£,
1942.. 27,370 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 9,614 95,769
To staff fund, £2224 .. .. ~ 93,545
1943.. 25,060 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 7,304 100,849
To staff fund, £3021 .. .. 1
1944.. 29,789 4000 10 p.c. = 18,756 j 9,012 109,861
To staff fund, £8450 .. .. 7
1945.. 38,317 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 \ 12,111121,972
To staff fund, £3734 .. .7
1946.. 41,989 4000 10 p.c. = 13,756 t 20,499 142,471
Share premiums, £49,937 .. 1
To staff fund ’ £3729 •• t 60,778 203,249
1947.. 34,862 4000 10 p.c. = 16,292 J
Share premiums, £59,906 ..1
Assets revaluation, £40,814 I
From tax provision, £1829 ~ 7 122,495 825.744
To staff fund, £3709 . f
1948.. 49,124 4000 10 p.c. = 21,469 J
Add assets revaluat’n, £ 16,875 1
To staff fund, £4566 ~ I 25,560 351 304
1949.. 43,729 4000 10 p.c. = 26,479 J ’ ’
The market looks upon this efficient
29-year-old manufacturer of women’s
foundation garments as a steady 10 per-
center, which it has been for the last 14
years. To help finance expansion
£126,193 of fresh ord. capital, which
brought with it £109,843 of share pre-
miums, was gathered over the last three
years, making the total on the share
register £316,250 in 50,000 8 p.c. prefs.
and 266,250 ords., all of £1 each. No
time was lost in putting the new money
o work, and turnover responded, but
earning power has been retarded by the
steep rise in operating and other costs.
Though production and sales increased
0 “ aIly ’’ last term, there was a slip
rnvtr^ 5 m ? et earnings (£43,729), which
covered pref. requirements and 15 p.c.
° apital as a S ainst 21,
27 : 6 ’ 24 - 5 ’ 18 A and 15 p.c. back to
of th wl? 1 ° f £16,875 on revaluation
ot tne holding m Berlei (U.K.) Ltd
sent direct to reserves, restored these
IKiund shaies to their face value and offset
wrl a ™? Unt b y wb ich they had been
written down-m the books in earlier years.
. offshoot, which is expanding
its sales, profit and div.
last term (figures not mentioned), and will
presently ask its shareholders for more.
tW ° associat ed cos.—Berlei
(N Z.), Ltd., and Warners Le Gant Pty.
divs aV T!f a M7 ned their sales ’ profits and
hno T? e N ' Z - co - (P aid capital £60,000)
f a S % ady PC • for some time >
and its f.-p. ss. shares f etc h 26s in the
Dommion market. The proprietary’s
figures are not broadcast. The three
war° a ?w S n UP by the parent since the
r a wx^°»? ngong ’ Lithgow and Punch-
bowl (N.S.W.) to help overcome the labor
are givmg a good account of
themselves. During the recent coal strike
the co. s Sydney, Wollongong and Punch-
bowl plants operated without interrup-
tion thanks to the management’s fore-
siglit m installing emergency power plants.
The keynote of balance-sheet figures
is continued expansion:-
Paid capital.. «aSJ& £B }^ o
Oredftora etc 1 68,371 r 106,693 120 - 000 161,241
Tax provision ] 97 »"4 I 88 > 828 168,975
a» S3K
:: “ffi «««
Investmcntsf . 91010 66,647 67 :451 84,948
Book debt. " Z lA*t 87l > 952 605,815 649,024
o2,S;':: ",S ugg
t Shares in subsidiary cos.
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less hquid surplus (£514,830) was £l6 210
despite the addition of £18,178 net to fixed
assets, which are worth more than book-
value Stocks (up £143,709) is the item
which catches the eye. They consist partly
of imported raw materials and partly of
manufactured goods, and appear at cost,
market or replacement value, whichever
is least, less a reserve of £30,085 against
any quick slip in prices. Taken in con-
junction with the faff of £59,879 in book
debts, the suggestion is that sales might
have eased toward the close of accounts.
But the co. has a firm grip upon the ex-
panding Australian market, and is likely
to retain it, provided wage and other
costs beyond the management’s control
are not allowed to get out of hand.
While Australian costs continue to rise
overseas costs generally have either
levelled-off or are falling. In these cir-
cumstances the Australian economy is
particularly vulnerable to a downturn of
economic activity overseas, or to the
effects of internal instability. The
co.’s selling prices, unchanged since
1947, are soon to be revised, which should
help take some of the sting out of the
blow from rising costs during the current
term.
After fluctuating between 555. 6d. and
495. since the beginning of 1949, the
pound ords. recently sold at 51s.’ 3d.
giving a return of 3.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c!
div. basis. The well-protected prefs at
355. 6d. yield 4.5 p.c. Net tangible cover
is £l3 7s. Id. prefs. and 465. sd. ords.
Australian Gypsum, Ltd.
T „_„ „ .. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1942 ‘' 1 ?’o« J 4, p,c - = 13^48 £ 3 H^o9
1 943 " t’f 66 it » » *.358 8 11,017
iqls " f’lno of ” ” 8,718 16 11,033
iQdfi ■’ in’tfto " ” 8(718 84 11,117
1947 ” fi ” ” 10,461 99 11,216
1947I 947 " t * ” ” !®>®ol 265 11,471
IQ4Q ” oi’Sal o ” " 20,922 1 30 11.601
1949 .. 25,286 7 „ „ 24,409 877 12,478
This co. is one of the pioneers of the
Australian gypsum industry, which grew
up in the shelter afforded by World Wan I.
Expansion was rapid at the start, and
good profits and dividends were won and
paid until the mid-1920’5. By then the
industry had become overcrowded, and
the market broke, as it usually does under
such circumstances, and shareholders,
whose capital had been inflated by two
reconstructions, went hungry for eight
years to 1933.
Seeing further trouble ahead, the chief
producers in the industry— this co., Victor
Plaster, Peninsula Plaster and Australian
Piaster, all of which worked deposits at
the southern end of Yorke Peninsula, S.
Aust. —decided to get together in 1930.
They sold their fixed assets and stock to
a new operating co., Australian Gypsum
Products Pty., for scrip, of which this
co.’s share amounted to £200,000. The
paper loss on the deal was £191,000-odd,
which was rubbed out in 1936 by a
surplus of £150,000 on revaluation of the
holding and use of approximately £41,000
of reserves. Divs. began to flow again in
1934, when 3 p.c. was paid, and share-
holders have remained in the picture since,
the rate of earnings and distributions
fluctuating according to economic and
other conditions. Average distribution
over the eight years to close of accounts
in 1941 was 6.3 p.c., and for the six years
to the close of accounts in 1947, during
which war dried up demand, 2.2 p.c.
The rise in profits and divs. since war
ended reflect the growth of activity in
the building and cement industries.
Although shortage of shipping and of
rail trucks affected deliveries of raw
gypsum from the South Aust. deposits to
the Melbourne mill and from the Conoble
(N.S.W.) leases to the Sydney plant, ex-
panding turnover, assisted by lifts in sell-
ing prices, has thus far won the race
against advancing costs. Output of
plaster was assisted by reopening of the
Thevenard mill (S. Aust.) in the 1948
term, and the plaster-board plant at Oak-
leigh (Vic.) was got going again before
the close of last accounts.
For the year to June 30, 1948, the
operating co. sent along enough for Aus-
tralian Plaster to show an extra £4234 of
profit, raising the figure to £25,286, equal
to 7.2 p.c. on capital as against 6, 4.5, 3
and 2.5 p.c. back to 1945. The div.,
which has always followed closely on the
heels of receipts, was lifted from 6 p.c. to
7 p.c.
Since the curtain is kept drawn over
the operating co.’s accounts its actual
earning power and financial position are
known only to insiders; others have to
back the management. This holding co.’s
own balance-sheet figures don’t tell
much:
1942. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £848,700 £348,700 £848,700 £348,700
Sundry creditors 167 120 169 1,580
Shares operat-
ing co. .. 350,000 350,000 350,000 350,000
Book debts .. 7,500 9,300 11,000 13,500
Govt, securities 7,500 9,600 9,600 9,600
Cash .. 1,850 108 321 1,862
The outlook in the building and cement
industries augurs well for the demand for
gypsum, plaster and board for some time.
But the horizon is far from cloudless.
The full repercussions of our top-heavy
costs structure and recalcitrant labor
force upon employment, demand and
prices have yet to be felt. And there is
more competition in the plaster trade now
than before the war.
The market sums up the risks by pric-
ing the f.-p. pound shares, which stood
at 265. 3d. early in 1949, at 245. 6d. At
the lower figure the return is 5.7 p.c. on
a 7 p.c. div. basis, or 4.9 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
distribution. Net asset cover (holding co.’s
figure) is 20s. 9d,


The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
w
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
QCS
WotifKotfg'
d by AIR
IN LESS THAN 30 HOURS!
HONG
KONG
S.ABUAN
DARWIN
EY
Excellent meals served !n the air . . . first-class
steward service. Consult your travel agent or
Qafttao Sm/utej4i'uvaya
AUSTRALIA’S INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE
in association with British Overseas Airways Corporation.
Sydney -Hong Kong
travel time has been
reduced to less than 30
hours by Qantas Empire
Airways' now, direct
Skymaster service.
Planes departing regu-
larly for prosperous,
picturesque Hong Kong
call at Darwin and
Labuan (North Borneo).
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO MAY LYDIA STOTEN late of Oippa
Street East Melbourne in the State of
Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that SAMUEL
FREDERICK STOTEN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1040 of 1947 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
25th November 1949 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from OWEN
JONES McHUTCHISON & CO., Solicitors,
10 Martin Place, Sydney.—(n.s.) .J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOSEPH EDWARD GUEST
late of Toowoomba in the State of Queens-
land.—TAKE NOTICE that LORNA
BEATRICE GUEST has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2913 of 1948 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 23rd
day of November 1949 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from R. W.
FRASER & PARKINSON, Solicitors, 61
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
V-3
tv
/\
'h Cp
-t
iOVD’ 8 .° , 25° ?ear ®
% \. e fits 1 * M\an«c
~ • * . y/esVern croS ed fh e
-,0. The Grea . fester" ® cC ° t gam P° wer
fh e V e ° r *•/£ Sffeeß-
ofirst cf °* S e 'loyal
TiiSS-Sw*"
burnt oU .jj n ot hal lavish neW Victoria*
premises 1844 ' Quee n *•
LUMLEY'S OF LLOYD'S OFFER A
FREE INSURANCE ADVISORY SERVICE
As insurance brokers, Lumley’s are in the position,
not only to give you complete advice, but also to
call upon the specialised policies of any number of
underwriting organisations, including Lloyd’s of
London. Whatever your insurance need, make
sure your policy has the best possible coverage
and most reasonable rates by consulting LUMLEY’S
free advisory service —in all States of the
Commonwealth.
EDWARD LCMLEY
& SONS PTV. LTD.
163 Ceorge St, Sydney ... 33 Watt St., Newcastle
BW 2131 B 1464
And all other States.
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:-**
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in -
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA .
ENGLAND
Agencies:—-
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
New Occidental Gold Mines
Like others in the industry,
New Occidental, biggest gold
producer in N. S. Wales, has
been fighting hard to prevent
rising costs from drowning earn-
ings. That was because gold
fetched only £AIO 15s. 3d. a fine
ounce. On Monday last the
figure rose to £AIS 9s. lOd. a
fine ounce, following devalua-
tion of both sterling and the
Australian pound by about one-
third in terms of the dollar. On
the basis of last term’s gold out-
put —New Occidental 37,7090 z.
and Chesney 24140 z new
price would add £188,777 p.a. to
co.’s revenue from gold, but,
with costs as they are, would
still not make the Chesney a
paying proposition.
The co. operates the New
Occidental (gold) and Chesney
(gold-copper) mines at Cobar.
Rising costs and shortage of
labor put the New Cobar, which
was milling 3.sdwt. ore with a
little copper, out of production
in April, 1948, when attention
was turned to the Chesney, where
production had practically
ceased at end 1944. For the year
to June 5, 1949, co. netted
£11,684, of which the pref. div.
took £5063. That was after
charging.. earnings with £44,272
spent on geological exploration
in conjunction with Zinc Corp.
from 1944 to 1949. The search,
now abandoned, disclosed no-
thing that promised the co. a
new lease of life at the time. For
the previous 18 months a profit
of £11,124, including £9130 from
sale of surplus stock, etc., was
recorded. After a run of Is. 6d.
divs,, the ords. went out of the
picture with 6d. a share in 1945.
Operating results for the last
two accounting periods were;
New Occidental.
Ore Head Re-
Milled, Value, covery. Working
Tons. Dwt. p.c. Costs.
1948* 125,350 6.19 89.1 48s. sd.
1949 f 102,158 7.99 92.8 655. 9d.
Chesney.
Ore f— Head Value— N
Milled, Gold, Copper, Working
Tons. Dwt. p.c. Costs.
1948* 37,429 2.35 2.16 665. 2d.
1949 t 51,012 1.14 1.70 665. 6d.
*lB months, tl2 months.
Owing to fall in grade of ore,
the Chesney showed a working
loss of £43,194 last term. It was
the increase in grade of mill-feed
at the New Occidental, together
with better recovery (up
3.2 p.c.), that saved the day.
Considering the steep lift in
wage, material and realisation
charges, the management did
well to limit the rise in working
costs to 7s. 4d. a ton.
Development below No. 14
level in the New Occidental and
below No. 8 level in the Chesney
had ceased. Ore reserves at June
5 were: New Occidental, posi-
tive 255,047 tons, averaging
7.29dwt., above No. 14 level,
and a possible 180,000 tons on
No. 15 level; Chesney, positive
79,143 tons (including 28,767
tons broken), averaging I.2dwt.
gold and 1.8 p.c. copper, and a
probable 191,000 tons above the
proposed No. 9 level.
When the books closed, metals
on hand, debtors, cash, etc.,
totalled £112,387, and there was
£27,533 coming to the bank and
£28,979 to sundry creditors.
Shareholders in Kundang Tin
Dredging, which is in the Anglo-
Oriental stable, won’t know
exactly where they stand until
the Malayan War-Damage Com-
mission decides how much is to
be paid to the co. for loss of the
dredge, which was dismantled
and removed during the Jap
occupation, and until the terms
of an arrangement yet to be
made with an associated co. to
dredge the remainder of the pro-
perty are known. In 1940 co.
netted £42,128, dr 33.7 p.c. on
capital, and paid a 15 p.c. div.
from treatment of 0.65ib.
ground. The area still to be
dredged is about 230 acres;
yardage and average tin content
are not mentioned, but they are
not good enough to warrant the
high cost of installing a new
dredge. The property stands in
the books at £26,000, and the
dredge, buildings, etc., at
£88,845. At end 1948 there
were current assets, mostly cash,
totalling £47,175 to meet £1654
coming to outsiders. The f.-p.
pound shares recently fetched
Bs. 6d. on the Sydney market.
* * * *
From London: During 1948
Sons of Gwalia, operating on
the North Coolgardie field
(W.A.), treated 67,289 tons ore
for 18,1390 z. fine gold and a
loss of £16,245, first thing of
its kind since the corner was
turned about 20 years ago. In
1947 the co. treated 91,282 tons
for 24,7870 z. fine gold and a
profit of £18,992, after allowing
for taxation, depreciation, etc.
Ore reserves at end 1948 were
estimated at 596,716 tons, aver-
aging 5.68dwt., a drop of 17,153
tons and, o.o3dwt. respectively
over the 12 months. Share-
holders, who received p.c,,
less English income tax, for the
previous term, were passed by.
However, with the long-delayed
lift in the price of gold their
prospects have brightened again,
provided costs can be held in
check. It is a deep mine, main
shaft is down 5036 ft., and an
internal shaft is being sunk to
work still deeper ground. A 30-
stamp mill does the crushing.
♦ * * *
Western Mining Corp. has
taken a £12,000 option from
Colin Scott, of Bullfinch, over
two leases adjoining the north-
ern boundary of the Radio mine,
Manxman (W.A.). Three holes
recently put down by Scott with
a portable drill suggest the exist-
ence of a load over a length of
800 ft. The Radio has been yield-
ing gold since 1915, and some
small but rich parcels have been
taken from it recently. The
Corp. has also repegged the
Radio Deeps leases, which were
forfeited after it abandoned an
option over them a year ago.


until summer's nearly
through, and swelter day
and night -
insulate
your horn sH with
Bi SIMWOOL
No House, No Home, No Office—or building is
modern and entirely healthy unless it Is
insulated—preferably with BX SLAGWOOL.
81-CI2
got
SLAG
fnsulatUm
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY H 3038 • MELBOURNE MU 3506
BRISBANE B 3604 • ADELAIDE C 7257 • PERTH L 3107
It’ll make a wonderful
difference to «/out>
car, too!
HERE’S WHAT USERS SAY
ABOUT THIS NEW KIND OF
TYRE
Mr. Austin Dwyer, Motor
Distributor, Wollongong,
N.S.W.: “Super-Cushions
made a remarkable dif-
ference to the all-round
riding comfort of my car.
Even after the longest journey, I felt leas fatigued that
if I had travelled a quarter of the distance on ordinary
tyres. 7
WOE
UNBELIEVABLY SMOOTHER
Super-Cushion 18
Thousands of Super-Cashiona
are already in use in Australia,
on new and older cars. If you
want the smoothest ride you’ve,
ever had, more car economy j
and greater safety, switch to
Super-Cushions, See your
Goodyear Dealer today!
THE NEW
good/year
mm
am
_ UnmAfc
r2Bto3M»^
eoiniTiMH ti»t tjf[^nW rt
Business, Rellery, Etc.
THE CURRENCY LADS.
The two extraordinary features
of Monday’s adjustments on the
foreign-exchange market were
that Britain’s devaluation should
have been so drastic, and then
that Australia elected to go down
the full distance with sterling.
The second decision is the more
controversial* and rather a shock
to some local prophets. From
the viewpoint of the whole
economy, as distinct from sec-
tional interests, the most serious
danger which it carries is that of
still more inflation. All things
considered, a reasonable snap
verdict at this stage may be that
Sir Stafford Cripps was justified
in making his bold “once-for-all”
adjustment; while Mr. Chifley,
if he has erred at all, has erred
on the side of excessive caution.
In Britain’s case, there was no
question that sterling had been
pegged at an artificially high rate
for the last four years. This
rate of $4.03 to the pound has
been of great service to the
United Kingdom, enabling her
to buy cheaply from abroad and
to sell dear. Since the beginning
of 1949, however, it was becom-
ing clear that the scope for dear
selling on world markets was
dosing up. Temporary post-war
shortages of many goods have
passed, and new suppliers, in the
shape of reviving European in-
dustries, are entering the field on
a very competitive basis.
Britain’s balance of trade with
the whole world turned adverse
again this year, while trade with
the dollar area became des-
perately ill-adjusted.
As an essential of Britain’s ex-
port drive, it was apparent that
the pound would have to be
cheapened. The only questions
were when and by how much.
The fact that American
customers had become convinced
that depreciation was impending
itself hastened the decision, for
they have been holding off their
purchases until the adjustment
was effected. Likewise, the pros-
pect of attracting American in-
vestment in the sterling area—■
this is plainly regarded on both
sides of the Atlantic as one of
the major antidotes for the dollar
shortage—was exceedingly re-
mote so long as sterling was
priced at an unrealistic level.
The touch of drama which Sir
Stafford Cripps introduced by
cutting his pound as much as
30 p.c. will have the important
psychological effect of restoring
full confidence in sterling. It
brings free convertibility of ex-
change once again within the
realms of possibility, and should
mean the beginning of the end
for the various “Schachtian”
currency arrangements between
Britain and her weaker Euro-
pean neighbors. It is exactly the
sort of gesture to revive Ameri-
can confidence and to quicken
that nation’s generosity.
Thus Britain has turned to the
best account an action which
had in any case become inevi-
table. The adjustment is not
going to be painless, for it means
somewhat dearer living standards
immediately, and the exchange
adjustment in itself offers only a
fleeting advantage to British
exports unless accompanied by
a sustained drive for greater pro-
duction, harder work and less of
the luxuries of Socialism. The
cut already decreed in civil-
service expenditure and Mr.
Attlee’s rejection of recent de-
mands for wage-increases indi-
cate that the economic facts of
life have at last dawned upon his
Government’s consciousness.
For Australia there were three
possible reactions to the British
devaluation —to leave our cur-
rency unchanged ; or to go down
all the way with sterling; or, as
a compromise, to go down part
of the way.
Had the first alternative been
chosen (Australia retaining its
present rate against the dollar),
our pound would actually have
become dearer than sterling as
a result of the latter’s deprecia-
tion by 30 p.c. This would have
had very drastic deflationary
effects, and was in fact scarcely
conceivable. Exporters to
Britain (who comprise about
half Australia’s total exporting
interests) would have lost all their
“... 6 ... 7 ... 8 ... 9 ... OUT!”
present “exchange profit.” On
the other hand, our home indus-
tries many of them still
fledglings would have been
exposed to intense price competi-
tion from British imports, which
would have been able to make
heavy price-cuts on the Aus-
tralian market.
'Die second choice, which Mr.
Chifley has adopted, leaves our
trading position with Britain un-
changed, but will tend to have
inflationary consequences as re-
gards trade with dollar and other
non-sterling countries. Imports
from these nations will be dearer
than ever, and exports to them
will carry a still greater “ex-
change profit.” It must be re-
membered, however, that some
European and Dominion cur-
rencies may shortly follow
Britain’s exchange move down-
ward, and to that extent the in-
flation here would be reduced.
Nevertheless, our pound re-
mains undervalued on the
foreign exchanges, and the
Australian economy simply
cannot stand any further in-
flation to bring the internal
purchasing power of the cur-
rency down to its new external
value. This is the danger in Mr.
Chifley’s decision. The need for
real production has become more
urgent than ever if we are to
escape drowning in floods of
paper money, and the first move
must come from the Canberra
Government itself—less ex-
travagant Budgets, fewer re-
straints upon initiative and
individual effort and a touch
of the new British realism
towards labor demands. Un-
less the tide is arrested
immediately by such methods,
our new exchange rate will
c’ertainly not be justified. Some
compromise arrangement would
be preferable, putting the Aus-
tralian pound at a somewhat
smaller discount in relation to
sterling.
In itself, the new exchange-
rate should stimulate American
willingness to invest here as well
as elsewhere in the sterling area.
Moreover, it will enable the In-
ternational Monetary Fund to
advance us dollars where pre-
viously that was practically im-
possible. These loans are in any
case only temporary expedients,
and it is trade to the dollar
countries that we must boost.
Whether the United States will
buy very much more of
our exports (especially wool)
since they have been cheap-
ened by the new currency
rate is an important ques-
tion that will be answered in the
next few months. Unfortunately,
is is not clear how far Mr.
Chifley intends to encourage the
private investment of American
capital in Australia, but this is
emphatically the kind of invest-
ment that the U.S. Treasury re-
gards as the main hope of allevi-
ating the dollar shortage. To
attract such funds, Australia
must present a picture of a
sound, stable and industrious
economy.
The Stock Exchanges will
have plenty of mental exercise
for a while. Gold shares are
obviously brightened by the wel-
come, though belated, increase
in price. Base metals also re-
ceive some help in respect of
their non - sterling exports.
Pastoral companies will have
nothing to complain about,
either.
The position of our local
textile industry (and some others
which were beginning to com-
plain of British and European
competition) is slightly better.
Traders in British cars are
strengthened considerably against
U.S. competitors (and many of
these traders were carrying large
currency-reserves against a pos-
sible upwards adjustment of our
pound); but the motor industry
in general will be sobered by
dearer petrol. British-film exhi-
bitors may likewise be in a
better position than their U.S.
rivals. B.H.P. and other big im-
porters of U.S. machinery will
be up for more expense. Some
of the “hot” British capital sent
out lately in expectation of ex-
change profit will no doubt drift
back to London, but the general
flow of funds into this country
will rather be quickened by
Britain’s era of retrenchment.
How clastic, wonders Sydney
Stock Exchange, is a city’s de-
mand for evening news after
a price jump of 50 p.c. leaves
the morning sheets not only
cheaper but disposed (in one
case) to trumpet their righteous-
ness with endless clangor?
Sydney is also witnessing an
experiment in the Sunday
field, where the “Herald” has
dropped a penny below its
rivals; some years ago when
“Truth” took the opposite
step and stood forth as the
dearest Sabbatarian, price con-
siderations didn’t appear to be
all-important with the public,
though circumstances weren’t
quite the same then. A
quiet sharemarket has* shown
little reaction to the present
tussle —the recent slide in news-
paper shares has only been in
line with other investments.
Actually, in the case of Truth
and Sportsman, Ltd., a sharp
advance was recorded last month
after rumors that the new direc-
tors of Melbourne’s “Argus”
Were interested in this company’s
“Daily Mirror.” Price paid in
the “Argus” deal was about 375,
per pound ordinary share, com-
pared with the vestibule quota-
tion of 21s. at the time; but to
the remaining (minority) share-
holders the London interests now
offer only 255. a share. During
Truth and Sportsman’s new de-
benture issue there was a stand-
ing buyer’s quote at par for Its
third prefs.


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
„ „ w DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
O. F. HUGHES, H. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
Position Vacant.
ASSISTANT SURVEYOR (Unauthorised)
required by City Electric Light Co. Ltd.
for Electric Transmission Line location
in area east of Darling Downs extending
from, Gympie to Tweed. Transport is
provided, and conditions are attractive,
permitting choice of residence in Brisbane
or Country Towns with week-ends at
home. Knowledge of electric supply pre-
ferable but not essential. Award rates.
Applications in writing to Box 403 F,
G.P.0., Brisbane.
#
%
t:he
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will b«
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company s many
services are> given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
Javnes Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. \V. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543, 5.P.0., Sydney
BP2-49
ARTS
Circular Charts for ail type*
of Recording Instruments
for any class of Machinery
or Iquipmem
MfTCft CHARTS • Specialty
j/\cwrsr o T sTujvAN^Li
OUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
4
3SV3H^ s , a oW3W
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
Are
you one
of the
217,000
AUSTRALIANS
WHO NEED THIS
INFORMATION...
A to prevent
({ interruption
to the income
| they receive from
Commonwealth
11
Loan Bonds?
217,000 Australians hold Bonds or Inscribed
Stock in Commonwealth Loan Securities which
recently matured, or will do so shortly. . . . Are
you one of them? If you have ever invested in
Commonwealth Loans you should make sure
NOW whether your holdings are affected, and,
if necessary, take the few easy steps required to
convert them into Eighth Security Loan Bonds
or Inscribed Stock. By doing so you will prevent
all possibility of interruption to the interest pay-
ments you receive from your Securities . . . you
will renew the investment that has paid you so
well in the past . . . you will safeguard your
savings for a further profitable period.
The information you need to check your holdings
is given on the right of this announcement. Read
it carefully ... at once!
I V.
■ ;
CONVERT
k K. 'c
MATURING
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITIES
INTO THE
lIP*--
EIGHTH
SECURITY LOAN
85L18.113.91
ALL YOU WANT
TO KNOW ABOUT
CONVERSION
OF MATURING
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITIES
These are the issues which
have matured or are about to
mature:—
Matured 15th September: 21%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1945 —three Issues.
The maturity date shown on
these Securities is 15th Sep-
tember, 1949-1950, but the
Treasurer has exercised his
option to redeem these Securi-
ties on 15th September, 1949,
and they became due for
conversion on that date).
Maturing 15th October: 2%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1946—tw0 issues);
3i% Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935—0ne issue).
Maturing 15th November: 3!%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935 and 1936—tw0
issues),
WHAT TO DO
If you have lodged with your
bank for safe custody more than
£lO worth of any of the Securi-
ties listed above, you will be
sent a conversion application
form. If you do not receive
such a form, check the maturity
dates of your Securities in one
of the following ways:
1. If your Bonds are in your
possession: Look at them at once
and compare the rates and
maturity dates printed at the
top with those indicated in the
list above.
2. If you lodged your Bonds
with your bank for safe-keeping:
Most banks issue a receipt or
acknowledgment for Bonds left
with them for safe custody. If
you hold any such receipts, com-
pare the maturity dates shown
with the list above.
3. If you cannot discover
maturity dates: Go to your
Bank to-day and ask whether
any of the Securities listed
above are held on your behalf.
HOW TO CONVERT
If you find that your Securities
are affected, ask your Bank,
Money Order Post Office or
Stockbroker for an application
form for conversion into the
Eighth Security Loan. Fill in
one form for each series of
Bonds or Stock to be converted
(new 2% Securities are for
£l,OOO and multiples only) and
hand it back. That's all. You
will then possess Eighth Security
Loan Bonds or Inscribed Stock
of the same value as your
maturing Securities, and interest
on your Securities will continue.
CASH
INVESTMENT
TOO
Apart from those with maturing
Securities to convert, everyone
may buy Bonds (£lO, £5O, £lOO,
£5OO or £1,000), or Inscribed
Stock, through any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order
Post Office or Stockbroker.
Interest is payable each six
months at 3J% per annum for
fourteen years or at 2% per
annum for three years. (Invest-
ment in 2% Securities must
be for £l,OOO and multiples
thereof.)
Repayment in full at maturity
is guaranteed by the Common-
wealth. There’s no better place
for your savings* Invest at once.
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
There are two main reasons
why the 81st annual Trade
Union Congress, held at Brid-
lington in early September, has
attracted ' more than normal
attention. First, it happened to
coincide with the dollar talks in
Washington. Second, and more
important, it is the last Congress
before the general election.
In the relationship between
the T.U.C. and the Government
an association of the Spenlow-
Jorkins kind cannot at times be
avoided. The TU.C. (alias Mr.
Spenlow) and the Government
(alias Mr. Jorkins) are so closely
linked that it is difficult to
imagine the one without the
other. But it is the T.U.C. that
has to account to the rank and
file (alias David Copperfield)
while maintaining a loyalty to
its senior partner. It must sup-
port the Government through
national crises and show that it
understands the heavy economic
burdens that the country has to
bear, while at the same time it
must convey to its members the
idea that they are living in a
Socialist Eldorado. If more and
more beneficences are not forth-
coming, well, Mr. Spenlow is
very sorry. He would have it
otherwise ; but he has a partner,
Mr. Jorkins ... The trouble is
that the rank and file, not being
so blandly ingenuous as young
David, are not as readily put off.
Pre-election Moves
With a general election loom-
ing up some time within the
next nine months —and possibly
before the end of the year—it is
necessary from the Labor point
of view that the ranks should be
closed. And here, perhaps, the
Government depends more upon
the T.U.C. than the reverse. So
it may be that the trade-union
leaders, while confirming
Crippsian austerity and other
prudent measures, actually feel
themselves to be in a fairly
strong bargaining position,
enough at any rate to call the
Government’s hand.
Of the T.U.C.’s own resolu-
tions, there is one that seeks an
insistence that the unions shall
hold on to all the “gains” they
have won during the present term
of office. Another calls for the
rejection “unhesitatingly” of all
proposals which would mean
“the lowering of wages, the
lengthening of hours of labor, or
a contraction of the social ser-
vices.” Yet another calls upon
the trade-unions to accept that
“the greatest possible means of
restraint in seeking to increase
personal incomes and expendi-
ture unrelated to increased pro-
ductivity” is the “only” way of
trying to maintain full employ-
ment and “to safeguard the pro-
gramme of social security.” The
second of these is direct enough
and can be taken as a challenge
to the Government, while the
third seems as vague of purpose
as it is rambling in wordiness;
but it must have eased the cor-
porate conscience of the T.U.C.
thus to have “said its piece.”
T.U.C. Losing Ground?
There is a strong opinion that
the T.U.C. is losing ground.
The succession of petty industrial
disputes and unauthorised strikes
points to the fact that the broad
mass of union card-holders no
longer has confidence in its
leaders. The big unions are so
remote from the man at the
bench or down the mine or work-
ing the crane.
Mr. Hamilton Whyte, pro-
fessor of Economics at Bristol
University, speaking at a Liberal
Summer School, advanced an-
other potent reason. The more
go-ahead workers’ representa-
tives have resigned from wages
councils to take up political
offices. And many of the highly-
paid sinecures on the numerous
regional boards of the nation-
alised industries have gone to
trade-union officials of long ser-
vice. The true object—that they
should be representative of
union opinion—seems to have
been evaded. For the rank and
file show themselves to be grow-
ing increasingly bitter and
envious of this new privileged
class. They tend to feel that
they have been venially deserted
by men whom they once re-
spected.
The core of the truth is, as
Professor Whyte remarked, that
with so much energy dissipated
into political activity the unions
have lost their true function,
with the result that it seems im-
possible to have a sound trade-
union organisation and a Social-
ist Government at one and the
same time.
Santa Claus Stale
“ In which the entire
population has its breakfast in
bed.” Thus has an American
writer somewhat cynically de-
fined the Welfare State, accord-
ing to Sir Alexander Gray, presi-
dent of the Economics section
of the British Association, who
holds that one of three condi-
tions is essential for the continu-
ance of the Welfare State: com-
pulsion, incentive or the “wiser
man.”
Compulsion is at once ruled
out as being distasteful and in-
admissible in a democracy. The
“wiser man,” who will univer-
sally work hard either because
he likes it or because he believes it
to be for the benefit of mankind,
is a long time a-coming. We are
left with incentive, or reward for
work done. Incentives, says Sir
Alexander, are enfeebled when
all men are equal. Life will
always be a kind of race. “But
there is not much fun in a race
where, in advance, the umpires
impose hardships which will
effectively ensure that all the
competitors will arrive simultane-
ously at the winning-post.”
Left Blinkers
Some American authorities
have complained that the British
people have not been told how
serious the dollar situation is.
That certainly is not true of the
British Press during the last few
weeks. Yet it is noticed that the
“New Statesman and Nation”
has added to its familiar smug-
ness a naivete which suggests
that the “intellectual” or diehard
Left has put the blinkers on.
The journal’s first leader
admits the crisis (“That Britain’s
dollar crisis is acute needs no
further emphasis”). After recit-
ing that the making of greater
efforts to secure dollar-earning
markets is at best a distant
remedy and that cheaper exports
cannot come for years, it states
that “the immediate situation
will have to be met by further
economies in dollar spending”
but does not say what they
should be. It hopes that, “by
one means or another, the im-
mediate crisis will be tided
over.”
While all considered opinion
points to two obvious and im-
mediate economies—cuts in Gov-
ernment expenditure and scaling-
down of the social services—the
“New Statesman” condemns the
Treasury circular asking for de-
partmental cuts in the Civil Ser-
vice as a “traditional” approach
te the problem. It affirms that
incentives to dollar-earning in-
dustries will endanger the prin-
ciple of fair shares; for all and
instances the Government’s
dilemma —that “there is no
simple way of reconciling ‘Fair
Shares’ with the incentives and
sanctions of ‘free’ economy.”
Finally, the leading article
protests that “once the retreat
from planning and the Welfare
State begins, it may be difficult
to stop: the burden of austerity
would then fall upon the Gov-
ernment’s working-class sup-
porters, while the dollar-earning
industrialist would be earning
greater profits than ever.”
One is at a loss to know from
this whether the continuance of
Socialism depends upon
muddling through or whether it
is intended that the Govern-
ment’s own supporters should be
protected from austerity while
the rest of the nation groans
under a still heavier burden.


New
Home
Your
mmM
aacm
IBS
BAT.
SUN
PINING *yl s \
e'6'*S'| *~k/TCN£N
1..
AOOM
A compact 10{
square "DURA-
BESTOS" Home
Plan, designed
for comfortable
living and eco-
nomical con-
struction.
If ——f pass a as
V —i
BSD AOPN * BED ROOM
LIVING AN
It'o'- It'o’
ENT
c.%
DESIGN
'VMJ? m
V*r.
2261 A
Hv;
o*6** EC*
Plan your future Home NOW, and be ready to build a
WUNDERLICH "DURABESTOS" HOME as the oppor-
tunity offers. Discuss prospects with a local architect or
builder. For roofing, decide to use WUNDERLICH
METAL TILE; it is available in RUSSET-RED or GREEN.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED. Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney
Also at NEWCASTLE and Interstate Capitals
"Durabestos" Distributor:
liWunc/en/icA ..
D
URABESTOS
BUILDING SHEETS
Suits and
Hats
for Spring
Made in Australia from pure wool
English worsted, these are the aristo-
crats of spring suits. Tailored in
the new smartly draped double
breasted style they hold their shape
and are handsomely finished in
every detail, and give unusually
long wear.
£lB-3-6
Wm
■: •>
mk
So light you’re hardly aware
of it, yet with every touch of
style found in heavier hats,
the Christie is the hat for hot
weather comfort. Roll it away
in your pocket and you won’t
alter its shape. With welt
edges and brims 2|", with plain
edges and brims 2|". In the
smartest shades of green, fawn,
brown and dark grey.
70/-
PEAPES PTY. LTD.
Next WYNYARD STATION, GEORGE ST.
Opposite Hunter Street , Sydney
There’s
no friend
like an
old
friend I
v ' '"'T'
The name is_
(D°Cdllam , s
Scots CUhisky
€&<Mukqh [»ouM6e6 rBO*H **•••*
(Imdlum's
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
SECRETS OF THE JAPANESE WAR.
Americans are exposing some
very interesting little-known facts
about the war against the Japs,
particularly about the ending of
it.
By now everybody no doubt
is aware that getting Russia into
it was a major blunder, already
ranking in historical perspective
with the “unconditional-sur-
render” formula and the “Mor-
genthau plan,” Leading Ameri-
can soldier Lieut.-Gen. Eichel-
berger (top infantry commander
in the war in the Pacific and
subsequently commander of the
Eighth Army in Japan) recently
summed that up to a New York
audience. Naming Russia as “a
nation whose contributions to
the victory in the Far East did
not change the time of uncon-
ditional surrender [by the Japs]
by a single hour,” he com-
mented :
“Thus it was that victory in
the Pacific, won at a cost to us
of 300,000 casualties and the ex-
penditure of billions in money
and treasure, is as yet in dubious
prospect. For her brief entry
into the war, Russia received the
satisfaction of strategic, as well
as the geographic, aspirations
cherished for a hundred and fifty
years.”
That was part of the cost of
Yalta, or of the U.S. having there
been represented by two very
sick men —President Roosevelt
and his personal adviser, Harry
L. Hopkins. The well-informed
Washington correspondent of
N. Y. “Times,” Arthur Krock,
lately disclosed:
“An Air Force officer was dis-
patched to Yalta with a well-
documented report of Japanese
weakness designed to fortify
President Roosevelt to resist
Stalin’s ‘price’ for entering the
war. Its purport was that the
Russians were not required for
a victory which would come
much sooner than the high
Army-Navy command believed —
this before the atomic bomb was
ready for operation.”
The officer who took that re-
port to Yalta had a promise from
Hopkins that he would read it
and show it to Roosevelt, but
this, evidently, was never done,
though, as Krock comments, the
report “could have changed the
history of these times for the
better.”
Another highly interesting
revelation has recently been
made in a “United Nations
World” article by Admiral Ellis
M. Zacharias, U.S. war-time
Deputy Director of Naval In-
telligence—no less than that the
Japs had already made a number
of secret peace bids, through the
Vatican and the Kremlin, before
ever the first atom-bomb was
dropped. Questioning “whether
or not it was necessary or wise
to make use of the atomic bomb
against Japan, thus introducing
this horrible weapon into the
conduct of international rela-
tions,” the U.S. admiral writes:
“VVffiat I regard as history’s
most remarkable diplomatic
manoeuvres in the interest of
peace preceded Japan’s uncon-
ditional surrender .... These
manoeuvres could have assured
the cessation of hostilities before
the first atom-bomb was dropped
on Hiroshima, before the
U.S.S.R. entered the Pacific war,
and even before our invasion of
Okinawa in the early spring of
1945.
“By June, 1945, top-secret
negotiations were so far ad-
vanced that those few of us who
were in possession of all facts
confidently expected Japan’s sur-
render at any moment. In a
secret estimate of the situation
I submitted to the late James
Forrestal [U.S. Defence Secre-
tary] early in July, I committed
myself without equivocation by
stating that Japan would ‘sur-
render within six weeks.’ At
that time I did not even suspect
the existence of the A-bomb.
“Despite the outstanding con-
tribution that this war-time diplo-
macy made to the cause of peace,
its role in ending the Pacific
war has long been obscured
One factor responsible for this
was inherent in the manner in
which these great diplomatic
manoeuvres had to be conducted.
Not more than ten persons
played an active role in the
negotiations outside Japan. They
worked in six countries. They
were separated from each other
by immense distances, by acute
and conflicting national interests,
by ideological differences, and
by faulty war-time communica-
tions,
“These ten men were the
Emperor of Japan and the
Catholic Archbishop of Tokyo ;
his Holiness the Pope and Pietro
Cardinal Fumasoni-Biandi, in
charge of the Vatican’s Congre-
gatio de propaganda fide; Mr.
Harold Tittmann, a brilliant
American diplomat stationed in
Vatican City; Generalissimo
Joseph V. Stalin and Foreign
Minister Viacheslav M. Molo-
tov ; Japanese Ambassador Sato
in Moscow; Foreign Minister
Togo and his agent, a Japanese
newspaperman named Jiro
Taguchi, who worked in Berne.
Their efforts remained unco-
ordinated and futile until V.E.-
Day, when President Truman
assumed active leadership of this
political-warfare campaign. Not
even the President, despite his
outstanding contribution to this
peace drive, carried it to its logi-
cal conclusion....
“On December 24, 1944 —
seven months and fifteen days
before the A-bomb was released
over Hiroshima —American In-
telligence authorities in Wash-
ington received what appears, in
retrospect, to be an amazing
Christmas gift. A secret diplo-
matic agent reported in de-
tail a complete about-face inside
Japan, According to his dis-
patch, a powerful peace party


?• ■•- /M •■y-//‘ V . °.
MT
1 M rS
t
Ui
Schweppervescence
lasts the whole drink through
GOOD WHISKY
deserves FRESH SODA
fof 6
was gradually emerging from the
ruins of war. The Cabinet of
General Koiso, a puppet of the
war party, was soon to be over-
thrown by the peace-makers and
elder statesman Admiral Baron
Suzuki was to form a new
Cabinet.
“The importance of this ,
report was difficult to exaggerate.
It conveyed to us the intelli-
gence that: (1) The Emperor of
Japan was himself behind the
powerful group of peace-
makers ; (2) Admiral Suzuki
would initiate secret negotiations
preparatory to surrender ; (3) An
Imperial Prince would eventually
be named Premier to carry out
the surrender terms. ‘This Im-
perial Prince,’ the report stated,
‘will be Prince Higashi Kuni.
He has agreed to head a sur-
render Cabinet and carry out the
capitulation. The group itself
includes top-ranking officers of
the Navy and is under the Em-
peror’s personal direction. This
group is sufficiently powerful to
effect the cessation of hostilities
at the psychological moment and
is, in my opinion, capable of per-
suading the country to accept
and observe Allied surrender
terms.’ ”
Despite the implications of
that report, it “failed to stir
Washington to action.” The
fact was that it “appeared too
good to be true”! Efforts of
Admiral Zacharias’s Intelligence
Department to “drum up in-
terest in the report remained
futile in the face of prevailing
Washington determination to
accept only pessimistic Intelli-
gence reports whenever prospects
of termination of hostilities by
non-military means were dis-
cussed.” Moreover:
“Combined with this doctrine
was the probably subconscious
desire of the highest echelons to
test a new weapon in actual com-
bat. At that time this new
weapon was merely the goal of
chosen scientists working behind
the sealed gates of Oak Ridge,
Hanford and Los Alamos. It
was, of course, the atomic
bomb.”
President Roosevelt has no
blame for this; he was never
shown the report, and by the
time its accuracy was fully
accepted he was on the thresh-
hold of the end. This section of
the revelations Admiral Zac-
harias is making in a series of
articles concludes:
“If the information contained
in the dispatch—that Japan
was determined to cease hostili-
ties even at the cost of uncon-
ditional surrender—had been
accepted as accurate by its re-
cipients, if the implications of
this information had been im-
pressed on the flexible mind of
the President, the course of
events from Yalta to Tokyo
might have been entirely differ-
ent.
“Those of us who had access
to the report and accepted
the accuracy of its intelligence
implicitly regarded it as the
definitive word concerning
Japanese intentions. Thus we
did know in February, 1945, that
Japan was ready to surrender.”
It should be added that that
particular dispatch wholly
accurate as it turns out —came
from a high diplomat working
for the Allies, and for peace, in-
side war-time Japan.
Atom-bomb Targets.
In a statement before a Con-
gress committee, U.S. Air Force
Chief of Staff General Vanden-
berg revealed that “selecting
targets for strategic bombing is
under continuing study.”
Targets, he said, were selected
by a combined military and
civilian group and then studied
by the highest authorities: “We
have spent, and are continuing to
spend, great effort in detailed
scientific appraisal of such tar-
gets.”
Cutting through the usual
“diplomatic” humbug, and stat-
ing frankly, “It is pointless to
talk in riddles, since the only
threat to the security of the
United States and world peace
comes from the Soviet Union,”
General Vandenberg declared
that the U.S., with atomic bombs
“in significant quantity” and
B-36 bombers to deliver them,
“could check any aggressive de-
—San Francisco "Chronicle ."
TOUGH DRIVIN’, JOE?
signs of the Soviet Union,
although it is deplorable that we
have to think in these terms.”
Regarding the role of bombers
on such a job, he pointed out
that any nation able to fight a
war must have an industrial
system which was highly in-
tegrated and consequently vul-
nerable. It followed that dis-
ruption of the production of war
equipment would affect a
nation’s capacity to wage war.
This was the genesis of the
strategic-bombing theory. Be-
fore concentrating on a nation’s
economic strength it might, how-
ever, be necessary to prevent the
massing of weapons already
available if, for example, an
enemy had a long-range air-fleet
and a stock of atomic bombs.
Likewise a hostile army poised
on a European frontier “might
in certain circumstances provide
the best target for the strategic
air force.”
Encouraging Parents.
The published report of the
British Royal Commission on
Population shows that, whereas
between 55 and 60 children on
average were born to every 10
British women “in the course of
their married lives” in Queen
Victoria’s day, “the present
generation of parents has become
accustomed to bearing about 22
children for every 10 married
couples,” the “average family”
thus having about 2.2 children,
which “average” has been stable
for about the last 20 years.
However, as a London
“Times” analysis of the report
points out, while that “repre-
sents something less than" is
needed for the ultimate replace-
ment of the population, the de-
ficiency is only about 6 per cent,
—not nearly so great as was sug-
gested by calculations before the
war.”
Moreover, the report is far
from suggesting any return to
the prolific old ways: “Holding
any marked increase or decrease
in Britain’s population alike un-
desirable, the commission urges
a national effort to raise the aver-
age family size from 2.2 to 2.4
children —just sufficient to secure
replacement.”
That, as analysed by the
“Times,” means: “Allowing fori
an unavoidable proportion of
childless marriages, for
marriages yielding one or two
children only, and for a prob-
able further reduction of the
number of unusually large
families, the commission’s aim
implies a decided increase in the
proportion of families with three
or four children. Such a change
is not likely to come about of
its own accord, without de-
liberate encouragement.”
“In our present social arrange-
ments,” says the report,
“parents are unfairly handi-
capped. . , .Both parents and
children of even medium-sized
families are at a serious disad-
vantage in material circum-
stances and prospects as com-
pared with those of the very
small families. This fault reflects
a tendency, in the long process
of social advance, for family
needs to be overlooked or given
only a minor place in social
policy. Measures to correct this
fault would make for a fairer
and more healthy society, and
are therefore justified on grounds
of equity and social welfare
alone.”
Therefore, the commission’s
report adds, public policy
“should assume, and seek to en-
courage, the spread of voluntary
parenthood” (compulsory being
possibly beyond even a Socialist
Government), and policy should
also “assume that women will
take an increasing part in the
cultural and economic life of the
community, and should endea-
vor... .to make it easier for
women to combine motherhood
and the care of a home with out-
side interests.
The commission’s report re-
commends tax-free family allow-
ances “payable before birth,
when pregnancy is established,”
and also, among other pro-
posals :
Housing schemes to provide
dwellings of more varied types,
especially a large proportion of
houses with more than three bed-
rooms, suitable for the larger
families; and special attention
to design and equipment of
houses for families with three or
more children.
Services for family welfare
to be developed as financial
circumstances permit, including
home help, sitters-in, nurseries,
nursery schools, laundry facili-
ties, cheap family holidays and
holidays for mothers.
The health service to in-
clude facilities for the study and
treatment of involuntary child-
lessness, and to accept the duty
of giving advice on birth-control
to all married people who want
it. Steady improvements to be
sought in the medical, nutritional
and social care of mothers and
children.
An educational effort to
spread understanding of popu-
lation problems and of the pur-
poses of policy ; and also to give
more prominence to preparation
for family life throughout the
educational system.
The report concludes that “a
community like ours in which
birth - control is generally
accepted can only prosper, or in
the long run survive, if its
members think it worth while to
have families large enough to
replace themselves Our in-
quiry has convinced us that the
relation between the trend of
family size and community out-
look and policies is peculiarly
close, and underlying all our
recommendations is our concern
to have this fact recognised so
that in all relevant branches of
policy and administration the
population factor will be taken
into account.”
Clumsy Cominform.
The often almost incredible
clumsiness of Soviet (and Com-
munist) acts and propaganda
crops up again in examples of
the Cominform cussing of
Yugoslavia and Tito, quoted by
the London “Times” Belgrade
correspondent.
The correspondent instances
even Cominform supporters as
agreeing that the propaganda
attacks “have been managed
with the utmost stupidity.” Tito
and other Yugoslav leaders
have, for example, been stated
to have been in secret conver-
sations with Western leaders at
given times and places when
large numbers of people could
see with their own eyes that this
was complete fabrication.
As another of the quoted ex-
amples of absurd ineptness,
“Bread, one of the few com-
modities of which there are ade-
quate supplies in the country,
has been said in the propaganda
broadcasts to be almost absent.”
While the propaganda is con-
sequently now treated as a joke,
the same correspondent reports
the economic blockade as a very
different matter: it had “hit the
country fairly severely.” He
added: “If the aim was to prove
the thesis that if supplies are
withheld from one quarter a
country will look for them in
another, the Cominform has
proved it. Economically Yugo-
slavia is looking to the West.
Her foreign policy is not yet
clear, though certainly not yet
Western. Her domestic policy
remains Communism, so far as
a Western observer can see, of
the extreme Left. In the long
run the West will probably
supply her with a good deal of
what she needs.”
Thus the blockade, like the
propaganda, acts as a boomer-
ang. It “has brought the whole
dispute home to a larger num-
ber of ordinary people,” who,
not greatly interested in the
political dispute, display the
natural national reaction of
burning indignation over the
blockade’s effects. For losing
friends and making enemies the
Soviet (and Communist) clumsi-
ness remains right on its own.
Revolution Recipes.
Stalin —Article in “Pravda,”
1925: “The support of the
Soviet Union is one of the chief
tasks of ail Communists, since
the latter is the mainstay of the
revolutionary movement in all
countries and since the main-
tenance of and strengthening of
the U.S.S.R. means the speediest
victory of the working class over
the bourgeoisie.”
Lenin Selected Works:
“There is one, and only one,
kind of internationalism in deed,
working wholeheartedly for the
development of the revolu-
tionary movement and the revo-
lutionary struggle in one’s own
country and supporting by
propaganda, sympathy and
material aid such and only such
a struggle and such a line in
every country without excep-
tion.”
Stalin Party After the
Seizure of Power: “The tasks
of the party in foreign policy
are; (1) To utilise each and every
contradiction and conflict among
the surrounding capitalist groups
and Governments for the pur-
pose of disintegrating imperial-
ism ; (2) To spare no pains or
means to render assistance to
the proletarian revolutions of
the West; (3) To take all neces-
sary measures to strengthen the
national liberation movement in
the East; (4) To strengthen the
Red Army.”
Stalin —On Lenin : “Lenin
never regarded the Republic of
the Soviets as an end in itself.
To him it was always a link
needed to strengthen the chain
of the revolutionary movement
in the countries of the West and
East, a link needed to facilitate
the victory of the working
people of the whole world over
capitalism.”
Lenin — Selected Works: “We
would be very poor revolution-
aries if, in the great proletarian
war for emancipation and
socialism, we did not know how
to utilise every popular move-
ment against each separate
disaster caused by imperialism
in order to sharpen and extend
the crisis.”
Lenin — Selected Works: “The
Communist parties must carry
on persistent propaganda urging
upon the workers to refuse to
transport war materials for the
enemies of the Soviet republics;
they must carry on legal or
illegal propaganda among the
armed forces....”
Jap Democracy ? —On the recent
reduction of the civil-affairs adminis-
tration in the occupation of Japan,
N. Y, “Times” editorially comments
that the U.S. authorities there have
perhaps been too optimistic regarding
the extent to which the Japs have
really embraced the planned political,
social and philosophical revolution:
“That sort of revolution cannot be
imposed from the top; it must grow
up from the bottom, and from the
substantial roots of profound belief.
The Japanese belief in the theory and
practice of democratic government
will now be put to the test.... That
they have the essential frame of mind
and change of heart that will meet
the challenge is still to be discovered.”


l). W '
FIRST IN ISSS...
FIRST TO-DAY!
NO OTHER BATTERY
CAN MATCH EXIDE'S
61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
EXIO£ BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA MX. tm. 44 BRIDGE STREET STDMEf
ẃ
PERSONAL ITEMS
In Queensland from London to settle
into civil engineering, the Major Robert
Davies who, outside St. Paul’s Cathedral
in 1940, had charge of the digging-out of
one of Goering’s unexploded, though very
much alive, huge bombs. The two and
a half days of cold courage it took Davies
to get it out, with the bomb ticking, won
him the first George Cross awarded.
The solid face quarried here by Prior
belongs to Keith Addison Cameron,
chairman of the Joint Coal Board since
the end of 1946. He adds to his academic
qualifications of a Melbourne ’Varsity
Bachelorship of Mining Engineering the
practical experience of 16 years’ on-the-
spot work in some of Australia’s biggest
mines, beginning with Mt. Lyell in Tas-
mania, a year with a big smelting works
in British Columbia, back to field-superin-
tendent in Bendigo (Vic.), across to
Westralia (general-supt. of the Western
Mining Corporation) and, in 1942, assist-
ant-supt. of North Broken Hill, Ltd.
(N.S.W.), ending manager in 1945. From
there he moved to the J.C.B. Further
practical experience of a sort includes his
having been half-scalped by a dropping
cage at Mt. Lyell. Talking with
the naturalness of a man master of his
job, Cameron intimated, among other
widely-known worries of it, that one of
his main concerns is convincing opencut
miners that extension of their workings
KEITH CAMERON.
Coal Board Chairman.
would not mean labor-retrenchment
through overproduction. Both men and
machines working opencuts could be
absorbed in the Snowy and other hydro-
electric and constructional schemes pro-
jected or in hand.
Turning over the captaincy of cruiser
Australia and heading for England,
Captain Henry Burrell had most of his
war service in destroyers, taking com-
mand of Norman in 1941. In her the next
year he took Sir Walter Citrine and a
British delegation to Russia. A shift of
scenery joined him to the British Eastern
Fleet, where he saw carrier Hermes and
our destroyer Vampire go down under Jap
bombs off Ceylon ; the same year (1942)
he was in the Malta convoy from Alex-
andria that proved destroyer Nestor’s last
voyage. When British commandos went
ashore on Madagascar, Norman and Bur-
rell were there, too —bombarding, and
landing troops. He had a well-earned
spell at Navy Office (Director of Plans);
then, in 1945, shifted to a new command,
destroyer Bataan. He had just worked
her up to battle efficiency and joined
Task Force 74 when the Japs called it a
day.
Sydney papers featured “Skipper”
Francis, crippled since he was two, arriv-
ing by air on his way home to Dunedin
(M.L.) after treatment in London ; but
they missed what Old Diggers who saw his
photo would remember—that Skipper
wrote the Kaiser-war song “Australia Will
Be There,” which Masefield, in his classic
Gallipoli, records as being sung with
ribald gusto as the Diggers moved in to
meet Jacko. Skipper himself sang it
here on the slightest provocation, donat-
ing the proceeds to the war effort, and
as well travelled through the country
selling the sheet at about a penny a time,
which collection likewise ended patrioti-
cally. In Dunedin, he has formed, with
Mayoral backing, his own trust fund for
cripples, which has been bringing com-
fort to afflicted lives over the past six
years. Skipper’s characteristic tenacity is
epitomised by the fact that, crippled legs
notwithstanding, he once swam the Bristol
Channel and had a film to prove it.
Last of the Faithfulls, Miss Florence,
died at famous old Springfield,
near Goulburn (N.S.W.), last week. Her
last public appearance was in an excellent
Australian Wool Board short film “A
Pioneer Stud,” and she failed to make
the century by two years. The first
Faithfull was William, who arrived in
1791 ; his son, W.P., set his camp
gear on Springfield in 1828 and began
the long and successful career that put
Springfield Merinos among the top-
notchers and spread Springfield blood
throughout the Merino country. On
Springfield, where are some beautiful
and historic buildings, the Faithfulls and
their employees lived in a sort of benev-
olent feudalism to the present day, and
the death of Miss Florence ends an era
which had survived oyer 120 years.
It would be a great pity if it should re-
sult in the stud being broken up and the
historic homestead allowed to fall into
ruin.
The first lecturer in Otago (M.L.) Uni-
versity’s new micro-chemical laboratory
will be a Chinese, Dr. T, S, Ma, who was
in charge of a similar lab. at the Uni-
versity of Chicago, in World War I.
Later Professor of Chemistry at the
National University of Pekin, he moved
next to Lingan University, Canton. His
wife, in Maoriland with him, is also a
Doctor of Philosophy from Chicago Uni-
versity, the Alma Mater of her husband.
Two years after the Hitler war Vickers
of England (who built some of the
R.N.’s biggest battlers, and most of its
guns, from 16-incher to pom-pom),
secured a majority shareholding in the
Cockatoo Docks and Engineering Co.,
which built cruiser Adelaide and our
present Tribal-class destroyers. Now the
link-up has been cemented by the
appointment of knight Keith Smith, for
years Vickers’ representative in Australia,
to the chairmanship of directors of the
Sydney co. Sir Keith is a brother of Ross
Smith, flew with him on the initial Eng-
land-Australia flight in 1919, and gained
experience for it through two years’ war-
time flying with the R.F.C. and R.A.F.
He relieves Norman Frazer, who, at 70,
reckons he’s laid keels enough.
In a big reshuffle of the expanding Vic-
torian Electricity Commission, W. Mor-
rison steps into the vacant shoes of
Ralph Hunt (who has moved up to the
chairmanship) as general superintendent
of Yallourn. Morrison will be boss cocky
in the area, with its population of 6500
and its model township; administering
the State’s largest power-and-fuel produc-
tion centre. He is a graduate of Glasgow
University.
Antarctic pilot Herbert Murphy is, at
73, in Sydney thawing-out till his pilot-
appointment to the Norwegian whaling
mother-ship Jason takes him down again
to the regions he first saw with Mawson
on his 1911 expedition. Still about as
soft as a steel-wire hawser, the teak-faced
old salt shipped in his first whaler up
to the Arctic in 1897 (he has been back
there six times), when the only force used
to bury a harpoon-head in blubber was
the strength of the arm that flung it. Now
an electric charge replaces muscle.
Murphy later shipped in the windjammer
Hope out of Dundee, when Conan Doyle
was her surgeon. Altogether he has
notched over 50 years of blubber-baiting.
Melbourne’s busiest man at the
moment. Royal Show secretary Louis
Monod, started off as a boy in a timber-
merchant’s office, entered the Vic. R.A.S.
as junior clerk in 1912, and since then
has done more organising of breed
societies than any other man in the State.
He is secretary of 24 State and Federal
breed organisations, has made the Junior
Farmer Movement important, is editor of
the Shorthorn Herd Book, and has
written, in collaboration with Lt.-Col.
Ewen Campbell, a book on draught-
horses. His present headache is trying to
get a few more thousand entries into the
State’s show-window than there is room
for; and he has the Olympic Games pre-
parations in the offing. But no one has
yet seen him flustered.
Henry Krips, who shifts from Perth to
conduct Adelaide’s symphony orchestra,
is a naturalised Australian born in
Vienna. After studying at the Conser-
vatorium there, he became chief con-
ductor at the Salzburg Town Theatre,
and, at 21, conductor of the Vienna
Volks Opera. Coming to Australia he
composed and conducted the musical
score for the film “Smithy,” took time
off from his music to serve with the Aus-
tralian Army in World War 11, and last
year wrote a symphonic score for “Sons
of Matthew,” Charles Chauvel’s produc-
tion. In 1947 Krips was invited back to
the Vienna Opera House for the season,
an honor heightened by the fact that the
other two guest conductors were Bruno
Walter and Eric Kleiber. The same year
he conducted, for the first time outside
England, Benjamin Britten’s new opera,
“The Rape of Lucretia.” Now 35, Krips
won his present post over 60 other appli-
cations submitted from most parts of
the musical world,
A cross-section of wild Australia will
go to the U.S. when Dr. Alfred Bailey,
director of the Colorado Museum of
Natural History and one of Uncle Sam’s
leading naturalists, finishes his sojourn in
this country. Six 50ft. dioramas will
accommodate the kookaburras, possums,
wallabies, kangaroos and other fauna, and
color films will illustrate the exhibition,
the first of its kind outside Australia—
there is an admirable small-scale one in
the Melbourne Museum, whose director,
R. P. M. Pescott, is co-operating with Dr.
Bailey. A look was taken at the Heales-
ville Sanctuary and the famed Sherbrooke
Forest and its lyrebirds. Canberra is to
follow; but that is no indication that the
doctor contemplates including a stuffed
politician in his menagerie.
Otto Klemperer, who has been getting
strains out of Australian orchestras that
few previous conductors have evoked, is
usually mentioned overseas in the same
breath as Furtwangler, Bruno Walter and
Toscanini. He studied at Frankfurt and
Berlin, later became conductor at Prague,
Hamburg, Bremen, Vienna, Cologne and
Berlin, and during the Hitler regime con-
ducted some of America’s most famous
orchestras, including six years with the
Los Angeles Philharmonic. Since the
war he has returned to Europe and con-
OTTO KLEMPERER
ducted those orchestras which knew him
before the Nazi eruption. A naturalised
American, he has considerable achieve-
ment as a composer. His tallness —6ft.
6in. —and his sensitive fingers enable him
to control his musical forces without a
rostrum; but, as Beethoven, towards the
end, never heard the music he wrote,
Klemperer’s sight is so defective that he
doesn’t see much of the physical organi-
sation he is commanding; which makes
the response he gets ail the more re-
markable.
Recently two more ships were
launched from Australian slips. Here
presented by Drover, Engineer Rear-
Admiral Percy McNeil, now 65, is the
man who, from the time he was appointed
Director of Shipbuilding in 1943 to
boost our depleted naval and merchant
fleets, has been the keel, as it were, of the
industry. Three years before World
War I he joined the Navy as an engineer-
lieutenant ; at the end of it he was en-
gineer-commander in charge of the huge
boilers and turbines driving battlecruiser
PERCY McNEIL,
sailor, shipbuilder.
Australia’s 19,200 armored tons. From
Australia’s engine-rooms he shifted to
Garden Island, and to responsibility for
repairing the Fleet’s. Six years of that,
followed by a period as technical adviser
to the naval representative in London,
and he became Third Naval Member.
He retired from the Navy shortly after,
to lay, at an age when most men have
called it a day, the keel of Australia’s
current shipbuilding. Within five years
he had floated two destroyers, 60 cor-
vettes and 13 9000-ton River-class mer-
chantmen. Now, though he “retired”
again last year, he’s working on plans
for an improved steel hatch on hinges for
cargo ships, shortly to be built into a
new vessel for testing.
Captain T. S. Anderson, who has
passed on in Brisbane at 86, was a Scot
who landed in Queensland from Arbroath
in 1883, learnt his reef-work in coastal
shipping, then took on tug-mastering for
the A.U.S.N. What he didn’t know about
that game wasn’t worth looking in books
for. In 1929, in the Coringa, he towed
the disabled steamer Arafura through all
a north-coast cyclone could hurl against
him, and brought her in salt-caked,
rusted, boatless, but still on the end of
his towline. Like most of the older breed
of blue-water men, he was deeply
religious, and for 50 years was a regular
attendant at Park Presbyterian Church, of
which he was senior elder.
Into the Silence:
In Dunedin (M.L.), at 68, Gilbert Burnese
Burns, grandson of Maoriland pioneer Dr.
Thomas Burns, who was a nephew of Rab the
Poet.
At 65, in Sydney, John Hanlon, editor of
the “Worker.” Born at Creswick (.Vic.), he
moved to Queensland, became Legislative
Councillor there in 1920, and for 28 years, till
1943, edited the “Queensland Worker.” He
was a member of the A.B.C. and foundation
member of the AJ.A.
In Brisbane, Captain E. R. Pike, World
War I soldier; holder, for his work with the
State ambulance, of one of the highest
ambulance-orders, that of a Knight of St. John.
He was gen. sec. of the Q. Ambulance Brigade,
State president of the Royal Society of St.
George, and of a raft of other organisations,
all of them connected with service to the public.
In Perth, at 79, knight John Kirwan, member
of the first Commonwealth Parliament and,
between 1926-46, president of Westralia’s Legis-
lative Council. Galway-born, he came to Aus-
tralia at 20, headed for the Coolgardie fields,
and became part-proprietor of the Kalgoorlie
“Miner” and “Western Argus,” both of which
papers he edited for 31 years till 1926. He
entered Parliament for Kalgoorlie in 1901.
In Sydney, J. F. Dunlop, Old Digger Scot
and one-time supt. of construction and main-
tenance for Sydney Municipal Council. He
supervised the building of Bunnerong.
In Melbourne, Ernest F. Williams, one of
the city’s oldest real-estate men. He was
honorary auditor to the City Council, one-Ume
president of the Real Estate and Stock Institute
and a Life Governor of Royal Melbourne
hospital.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Countess Pietra Santa Sauvaigue de-
clared the Royal Art Society’s show open
last Saturday afternoon. She was the
most decorative opener any show has had
for a long time. Her frock was of the
blue that hovers between navy and royal,
her small felt toque caught the exact
toning, and on the lush fur of her long
cape she wore two mauvy-green orchids
that left famed flower-painter Albert
Sherman gasping. Keenly interested
visitors to this year’s exhibition were Dr.
and Mrs. Egmont Schmidt, who came
down from Bundaberg to see and to buy.
And talking of sales, by the opening hour
over £ 1300-worth had been gleaned by
secretary Estelle Andrews.
There should be a shepherd (preferably
old style) playing his pipe in the bit of
Tumut caught under scudding sky by
R.A.S. president Erik Langker. Mary
Edwards shows a vivid and marvellous
rooster. But—alas! his price would leave
one admirer without a feather to fly
with. The Gallery has bought Hayward
Veal’s “Nocturne, Elizabeth Bay,” and
the Marshall Bequest Strasser’s “Temple,
Kyoto.” Hayward also shows portraits of
the Braddon lady and Mrs. C. T. Lorenz.
“Edward My Son,” the new play at
the Royal, evokes a succession of sinister
and cynical images. Maybe that is why
actor Robert Morley, who plays the ruth-
less millionaire Arnold Holt, ended up on
Friday night with a fireworks display on
Mrs. Martin’s beach. He may believe,
Chinese wise, that evils are frightened off
by the exploding cracker. The fireworks
were a finale to the after-the-opening
party given by Mr. and Mrs. Morley to
the cast and staff of J. C. Williamson’s
and Sydney friends, at the John Bovill
Point Piper home, where the Morleys will
live during their Sydney season.
Any woman who says she “likes” this
play would think the Medea a raving
farce. Its moments of laughter are like
rococo bridges flung over terrifying
chasms. In spite of the real pearls and
sables of a millionaire’s wife, leading lady
Sophie Stewart has no glamor part. But
she shines like the star she is. Bettina
Welch, Arnold’s girl-friend, also gets a
clutch of real pearls. Probably Arnold
had bought up the Persian Gulf —he
seems to have bought up everything.
The opening was on the grand scale.
Photographers and microphones, minks,
foxes, squirrels and wolves were all over
the place. There were trailing moires,
chiffons and upholstery satins. Ladies
wore orchids, too, but pretty Mrs. Max
Munro wore a spray of white azaleas
with her frock of black organza em-
broidered in small white flowers.
Mrs. John Bovill in swaying-skirted
pale-pink satins was notable. Ankle-
length, parchment satin and mink were
good companions on Mrs. Marcel Deky-
vere. Russian squirrel coats were admired
on Mrs, H. J. Brady and Mrs. H. J.
Evans. Producer Daphne Rye wore
satin, orchids and mink. Minna Shelley
wore white satins under a long black
velvet coat. A camellia in the hair and
camellia-pink chiffons were worn by Mrs.
Robert Morley, whose husband’s acting
gripped the audience from the moment he
strolled before the curtain to speak the
unusual prologue.
Once again, Mrs. C. M. Guiney
is organising an after-the-races cele-
bration in aid of Lewisham Hospital,
where her husband is one of the medical
high chiefs. The doings, on October 3,
will be a jolly round-off to the Metro-
politan- First there will be cocktails at
Rancliff, Woollahra. Then the party goes
on to dinner at the same address. After
dinner there will be music and guessing
competitions till about half-past-ten.
The opening of the Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron 1949-50 season is dated for the
afternoon of Saturday, September 24.
Sailing and rowing events will start and
finish off the squadron’s grounds, in which
the usual garden party will rage.
The rooms of the Adult Deaf and
Dumb Society, in Elizabeth-street, are
already breathing the spirit of the days
that were. The exhibition of antiques to
aid the funds of the society will be opened
on October 19 by the Governor, Lieut.-
General Northcott. On the evening of the
18th there will be a preview-party, at
which French singer Ninon Vallin will be
the guest-of-honor. Of particular interest
to Sydneyites will be a collection of the
earliest city archives, many inscribed on
parchment. A nice old piece of family
plate—a delicately-scrolled silver salver —
presented by Bishop Broughton to Sir
George Gipps will fill this E.P.-fed-up
age with envy.
Insatiable art-collector knight Marcus
Clarke has loaned paintings for the 18th-
century room, including a Turner. For
the Australian Historical section he is
showing some of the earliest paintings of
this land. Many of these were painted by
convicts. In the Australian section will
be pieces of Crown Derby which once
graced Governor Macquarie’s table. A
silver wine jug, a share-certificate of
Goethe, Chinese embroideries, Viennese
bedroom furniture which once belonged
to the Royal Hapsburgs and modern
Swedish furniture will be displayed. Pro-
fessor Wilkinson is president of the exhi-
bition, and Mrs. Arthur Davis the tireless
organiser.
The R.A.A.F. at Bradfield Park has
the right idea. At the cocktail party given
in the officers’ mess last Friday evening
there were orchids for the women guests.
Air Vice-Marshal McCauley and Mrs.
McCauley received the guests —her after-
noon frock was of deep-sapphire satin.
Anne McCauley was smart in black. This
was one of the good parties of the week-
end.
Myra Dempsey, so long associated with
publicity for and the organising of good
causes, has lately been assigned to the
Hornsby and District sub-branch of the
R.S.L. She is putting her energy and
experience behind the candidate nomi-
nated by the Hornsby and District Police
and Citizens and the Chatswood Police
Boys’ Club in the 1949 Miss Australia
Quest. This year’s Quest is to benefit
the mentally-ill ex-servicemen and -women
—a cause that makes strong appeal to
every one of us.
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere is here wearing
the smile of the successful organiser.
Plans for the Black and White Ball on
October 4, in aid of the Industrial Blind
Institute, are in smooth-running order.
Mrs. Dekyvere is president of the ball
committee.
Lord Mayor O’Dea and Mrs. O’Dea
know how to mix a good party. Their
Town Hall reception to Mr. and Mrs.
Robert Morley was one of the brightest
noonday affairs the reception-rooms have
harbored for a long time. After the hand-
shakes, Robert of the remarkable gaze
and the mellow voice moved about leaving
a trail of nonsense and laughter. Mrs.
Morley’s brown bonnet was flower-
trimmed and tied with a narrow ribbon
beneath her clear-cut chin. Her coat was
off-white, her frock was of silk, all brown-
and-white spots.
Back in Sydney for the party were the
Harald Bowdens, of J. C. Williamson’s.
They have seen just about everything
England and America have to offer in
theatre •entertainment. And ask them to
tell you of the Hollywood parties they
went to. Though not quite the Roman
holidays they used to be, these dos
are still something to remember. Mrs.
C. M. Guiney murmured admiring com-
ment about her husband’s racehorse. Her
listeners mostly kept admiring gaze on her
platina foxes. Deputy-Mayoress Mrs.
O’Carroll was in the crowded rooms; so
were the distinguished-looking W. R.
Dovey couple, Terry Vaughan, of Kiwi
renown, and his wife. Robert himself is
just back from a trip to the Barrier
Reef.
Mrs. Edith Shortland, wife of Judge
Shortland, is setting about proving that
the words uttered by John Ruskin over
60 years ago are right. John said: “With
women in Parliament no international,
political or economic question will remain
unsolved ” To be brief, Edith is standing
for Lowe, as Liberal Independent, in the
forthcoming Federal elections. Mrs. Short-
land is a good public speaker, and is no
stranger to public-life. Her husband was
Mayor of Strathfield for six years, and
during that time she carried out her duties
as Mayoress in a very capable fashion.
The family home is still in the Boulevarde,
Strathfield.
From Melbourne
Eggs are an important item in the
needs of the Royal Melbourne Hospital,
which uses over half a million of them
a year. From Vivienne Betty Stephens,
organising secretary of the Hospital
Auxiliary, comes an appeal for a gift of
eggs or money to buy them. Tuesday,
October 4, is the day earmarked for the
special appeal, and it is hoped that, as
they did last year, children of the schools
throughout the State will rally to this
good cause and roll up on the day with
their gifts in cash or in kind. Country
residents may send egg parcels, freight-
free, to Spencer-street or Flinders-street
railway-stations addressed to the Royal
Melbourne Hospital Egg Appeal. And
if there are any so generous that their
donation of eggs will stretch to 25 or 30
dozen, boxes will be sent if a request is
made to Miss V- B. Stephens at the
Hospital. Her telephone number is
F 0266, ext. 371,
Over afternoon tea at the Oriental the
president, Mrs. Arthur Laver, and mem-
bers of the committee of the Toorak
Auxiliary for the Aged Blind discussed
plans for the dance the Auxiliary will
give at the Grosvenor, Toorak, on Octo-
ber 7. This is the eve of the Caulfield
Guineas, and the dance will be one of the
first of the race-carnival festivities. Mrs.
Laver’s trim navy jacket-suit was worn
with a matching beret and a white
chiffon wimple to finish the ensemble off
attractively. Mrs. Graham Stobie, the
hon. treasurer, wore a brown velvet beret
with her brown-and-white check suit.
Nancy Rowe, a committee member, wore
with her black coat a small hat trimmed
with vieux-rose and grey satin. Evelyn
Pitt, assistant hon. secretary, gave to her
brown check outfit a lift with a green
feather flying from her brown hat.
Tickets, which are one guinea each, are
available from Mrs. E. Lesser (Windsor
1884) and Miss Joan Breheny (Windsor
1745).
The pretty girl is Pat, elder daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. A. J. Christie, of Kew.
Educated in this city, Sydney and Can-
berra, Pat has chosen an unusual career.
In her parents’ lovely home in Glenferrie-
road, she caters for weddings and parties
and has made a great success of her job.
Pat has found time to take on the job of
publicity for the Ballet Gala Premiere
whith will be held at the Princess Theatre
on September 29.
Proceeds from this function, which pro-
mises to be a great success, and at which
the Lieutenant-Governor, Sir Edmund
Herring, and Lady Herring and the
Premier and Mrs. Hollway will be pre-
sent, go to the Vera Scantlebury Brown
Memorial Fund. The programme will
include the ever-popular “Les Sylphides,”
with a new decor by artist Kenneth
Rowell, “Prince Igor,” “The Listener” and
“Egypt,” a ballet for which Jean Alex-
ander has done the choreography. Mrs.
Garnet Carroll heads the committee
organising the function, and there are
still seats for half a guinea and five shil-
lings obtainable.
When she was married at Holy Trinity,
Kew, to Frederick John, second son of
Mrs. P. H. Scrivenor, of Deepdene, and
the late Mr. Scrivenor, Margaret Jean,
only daughter of Commander and Mrs.
Lionel Robinson, of Frankston, wore a
classical gown of pale tea-rose satin
which had a wide, square train and a
decollete neckline finished in a large bow.
Her veil of French tulle was held in place
with a coronet of opalescent orange-
blossom, and she carried a bouquet of
pale-pink orchids and hyacinths. Phelia
Grimwade, who attended the bride, wore
a bouffant gown of deep tea-rose satin
fashioned with heavy folds round the
hemline and the neckline. A scarf of
turquoise chiffon softly draped from the
neckline formed her headdress, and she
carried a bouquet of pink hyacinths and
azaleas. John Grainger was best man, and
Peter Wilson, Howard Scrivenor and Jim
Carr were ushers. Reception was held
at Harbury, South Yarra.
Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, whose graceful-
ness of manner on the concert platform
is so marked, sang Mozart’s “Exultate
Jubilate” with the Victorian Symphony
Orchestra under Otto Klemperer, the
visiting conductor, thereby earning a re-
markable ovation. Her gown of black
velvet had the decollete neckline outlined
with bands of grey-fox fur.
There were many beautiful gowns at
the Grand Opera’s presentation of “Tur-
andot,” though, perhaps, none so striking
as those worn by Di Giulio as the Prin-
cess. The first was of heavy white
brocade, with the train banded in green
satin and outlined with glittering sequins ;
the second was of sombre-toned brocade.
Among the outstanding creations was one
of gunmetal-blue satin set off with a
white Arctic-fox wrap and worn by Mrs,
Eric Julian. Mrs. G. I, Stevenson’s dove-
grey chiffons were worn with a white
ermine coat. With her was Mrs. Rupert
Downes, whose gracefully-moulded gown
was of aqua-blue silk jersey.
The Connelly lady’s heavy satins in
soft grey were embroidered with silver
sequins on the bodice. The side drape
on the skirt of Mrs. A. Silk’s emerald-
green crepe romaine gown was splashed
with a large pink rose. Mrs. Frank Tait
set off her Titian hair with a bouffant
gown of brown tulle with a matching
stole. Mrs. J. Bowen Pain’s ankle-length
gown of black satin had wide revers, lined
with pink at the shoulders. Cecil Tait’s
wide-skirted gown was of silver-grey
satin with a wide bow of hyacinth-blue
taffeta at one side and with narrow ruch-
ings of blue outlining the off-the-shoulder
bodice. Aqua-blue satin, with a strapless
and folded bodice allied to a full skirt,
was the choice of Betty Inwood. Mrs. A,
Fowler’s powder-blue crepe gown had
tiny gold sequins dotted over the bodice.
Madame M. Vigano’s dove-grey chiffon
gown had a full flowing skirt. Apricot-
tinted satins were Mrs. Daryl Lindsay’s
prescription for smartness. A black
taffeta gown covered with a black-and-
silver-brocade coat was worn by Mary
Heffernan.
There were 150 guests, of all nation-
alities, at the party given at the Haw-
thorn home of Mrs. G. Swinburne, hon.
treasurer of the International Club of
Victoria ; this was the means chosert to
express thanks to all those who had helped
with the recent All Nations’ Exhibition
and also to discuss plans for the ball
and festival to be held at St. Kilda Town
Hall on October 4. The guests were re-
ceived by Lady Harrison Moore, who is
acting-president in the absence of Mrs.
Herbert Brookes, Mrs. G. Swinburne and
Mrs. L.* Si galas, convenor of the Nationals
Committee. Mrs. Sigalas wore an after-
noon frock of soft leaf-green and a draped
hat with feathers curling round almost
to the face. Of ice-blue wool was Mrs.
J. Dudley’s coat. Mrs. L. H. Eyles added
to her shrimp-pink frock a short matching
jacket and a hat in the same toning.
Janet Henderson’s coat was full-skirted,
her jaunty hat of forest-green corduroy.
Mrs. A, C. Moyle’s ensemble was a
mixture of sepias and browns in light-
weight wool. Incidentally, tickets for
the ball and festival, which the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress will attend,
are priced at 17s. 6d. and may be obtained
at the International Club, in Manchester
Unity Building, Collins-street. Booking
closes on Friday, September 23.
Withv the assistance of Mesdames
George Haines and Lou Green, Mrs. S.
Aarons is organising a card afternoon
and hat parade at Chevron, Commer-
cial-road, Prahran, on Tuesday, Septem-
ber 27. Mrs. Eric Cottrell, just returned
from holidays at Mount Buffalo, is ticket
secretary, and tables may be booked by
ringing her at WLIB6I. All the proceeds
will go to defray expenses for the Navy
Week Ball. Joan Cain, daughter of the
leader of the Opposition in the State
House, has designed the hats; she has
given up her job with a broadcasting
station and is now running her own milli-
nery salon. At the last meeting of the
Navy Week Ball committee Mrs. H. A.
Showers announced that Victoria’s
Governor-Elect, Sir Dallas Brooks, and
Lady Brooks would be at the ball. Venue
for the Navy’s big night will be Earl’s
Court on October 27. Half the tickets
have already been sold for the ball, and
those who want to be there should ring
Mrs. Norman Spry (U 7022), Mrs. Ed-
ward Campbell (Windsor 6774),
Gordon Darling (U 9190) or Pamela Myer
(U 3011).
In spite of warm spring sunshine, most
racegoers at the V.R.C. Flemington meet-
ing preferred suits and furs. An excep-
tion was Lola McKenzie, who wore a
blue-and-white-striped jersey-silk frock
with matching accessories. Mrs. Ken
Plowright contrasted her grey suit with
a large black hat, the wide brim covered
with pink- and black-spotted silk. Very
effective was the large red feather-trimmed
hat worn by Mrs. lan Miller with her
aqua-blue gabardine suit. Lady Currie’s
off-the-face black straw hat was lined
with ice-blue.


ORDER THIS KINAX
• Fast 4.S lens By Mail
• Four-speed shutter
• Front lens foe. £lO/17/6
• 8 prints on 620 film
SEND MONEY ORDER.
THt
IMMEDIATE DESPATCH
147. ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY. MA 7837
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divoecb.
TO LINTON JAMES TUCKET—TAKE
NOTICE that KATHLEEN MARGARET
TUCKET has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 1381 of 1948 on the grounds of de-
sertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance by
the 16th day of November 1949 at the
Divorce Office Sydney Supreme Court
House King Street Sydney and a copy of
the petition may be had without charge
from S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor, Bank
Comer, Wickham, Newcastle; or his
Sydney Agent, Mr. J. K. DIXON, Soli-
citor, 115 Pitt Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divoeoe.
TO LLOTD M'cGINN READING.—TAKE
NOTICE that ANNIE MERLE READING
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1569
of 1949 on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance by the 25th day
of November 1949 at the Divorce Office
Sydney Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney and a copy of the petition may be
had without charge from S. S. MITCHELL,
Solicitor, Bank Corner, Wickham, New-
castle ; or his Sydney Agent, MR. J. K.
DIXON, Solicitor, of 115 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—(l.b.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO HAZEL GERTRUDE SOMERVILLE
formerly of Newcastle and HAROLD WIL-
BERFORCE SIDEBOTTOM formerly of
Warners Bay.—TAKE NOTICE that
COLIN REID SOMERVILLE has filed a
Petition No. 136 of 1949 praying for a
divorce on the grounds of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards and of adultery with Harold
Wilberforce Sidebottom If you or either
of you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
2nd December 1949 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from MESSRS.
JOHN R. EDWARDS SON & BROWN, of
Argent Street, Broken Hill, or MESSRS.
CURTISS, DEZARNAULDS & BUTT-
FIELD, Solicitors, of 67 Castlereagh
Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
Better for School Books
They stand the rough
and tumble. They're lighter
and easier to carry.
Ask first for
li
'wafer
FORD SHERiXCTON LTD.
SCHOOL CASES.
THE SERVICE MAN
"Odd Items" in
Defence.
“Ek Dum”; A ramble
through the detailed figures of
the Defence Budget is illuminat-
ing if not overheartening.
Figures can be very dull; but
they are the best indicators of
muddle and disorder.
The story told by the
tables dealing with employment
in the Services shows, for
instance, the instability of
the employment. The policy
of Governments in British
countries has normally been to
have a stable, permanent civil
service* giving security and a
good salary standard to its em-
ployees and every facility neces-
sary to put them above tempta-
tion ana unrest. The Common-
wealth Public Services under the
Curtin - Chifley Governments
have become the refuge of
many a breezy fellow privi-
leged to call members of the
three Houses of Parliament —
House of Representatives,
Senate, Trades and Labor
Council—by their Christian
names and some ladies with
uncles who are union secretaries
or otherwise among the great.
The Royal Australian Navy
now has in its civilian services
permanent employees for whom
£230,000 is allotted this year and
“temporary and casual em-
ployees” for whom £325,000 is
allotted.
Under the item Naval Estab-
lishments salaries and allow-
ances for regulars amount to
£225,000 and for temporaries
and casuals to £1,750,000, but
this is understandable, because
these establishments are the
habitats of the hordes of hardy
toilers. They cost as much to
maintain them per annum as it
would have cost to build a battle-
ship a couple of decades ago.
Naturally no cavil service can
do without travelling and sub-
sistence allowances on an ade-
quate scale. Postages, tele-
phone!?, telegrams and tele-
printers for the Navy, plus office
news, stationery and printing,
outside its own special commu-
nications, cost a mere £125,000
this year—a mere £350 per day.
At this sort of thing, however,
the R.A.N. has no claim to call
itself the “senior service.” The
Army can give it 20 yards in a
hundred with a flat-iron tied to
its ankle.
In Army civilian services per-
manent employees draw
£333,000 in pay this year, against
£2,340,000 (an increase of a
cool £1,000,000 over last year)
for casuals and temporaries.
Telephones, telegrams and post-
ages for camp services are put
down at a mere £90,000; office
requisites, printing and
stationery, text-books and pub-
lications, a mere £64,000.
The Inspection Branch runs
to only £15,900-worth of per-
manent employees and £llB,OOO-
- of temporary, casual and
exempt
It is not explained why, hav-
ing budgeted to spend £3,101,000
on “arms, armament, ammuni-
tion, mechanisation and equip-
ment,” only £983,000 was spent
and why only £1,347,000 is pro-
vided for “replacement of exist-
ing arms, armament and cloth-
ing, equipment and stores,”
while the Army is able to in-
dulge in £2,340,000-worth of
casual and temporary employees
and a “permanent army” of
5000-odd officers and 1000
privates, drivers, artificers and
trumpeters.
Neither is it explainable how it
is possible to run a Citizen
Army, which the Prime Minister
says is up to establishment at
23,000 (it isn’t), plus a cadet
corps, on the following budget:
_ £
Camps of training, schools
of instruction, regimental
exercises and bivouacs .. 246,500
Home training, Citizen Forces
and Regimental Cadets .. 148,000
Home training, Australian
Cadet Corps 20,000
Citizen Forces—Welfare and
Betterment Allowance .. 3,000
Compensation for death, in-
jury and illness on duty 3,000
V.A.D. Detachment .. .. 500
Incidental and other expendi-
ture 19,000
Total £440,000
Including pay, the Citizen
Force Estimate, for the very core
of the fighting forces as they are
“I know you sailors; don't dare tell me you've run out
of petrol."
intended to be, amounts to
£1,046,000 out of a total of
£14,104,000 for the Army, the
Estimates of which are down
£3,000,000 against last year. The
Citizen Force Estimate has been
reduced by a third against last
year.
The Citizen Force Estimate
amounts to only £150,000 more
than the amount provided for the
Army’s travelling and subsist-
ence, rations, fuel, light and sani-
tation, telephones, telegrams and
postages, petrol and incidentals.
The position is too appalling
to describe in a moderately-
spoken journal.
Mr. Drakeford's Wings.
“Ek Dum”: With deep relief
the country will learn from Mr.
Drakeford that the Vampire
fighter-jet is not obsolete.
The country has the solemn
assurance of Mr. Drakeford that
the suggestion is a libel on Aus-
tralia’s most advertised machine
—“machine” is nearly right, the
plural at present is almost a com-
pliment. It also is assured that
the Commonwealth Government
is in close touch with “all the
latest developments in the build-
ing of jet-bombers.” But on this
subject, Mr. Drakeford said
mysteriously, “One cannot talk
freely.”
However, Australia was so far
allowed to enter into the secrets
of tl\e R.A.A.F. as to be pre-
sented with a photograph of Mr.
Drakeford opening or christen-
ing the first Australian-built
Vampire on the day on which
one of the breed astonished the
Sydney Press by going to Mel-
bourne and back in two hours —
the second 460-mile trip in 55
minutes.
If the Vampire is not obsolete
it is at least obsolescent, though
the British are still building it
as an interim aircraft and for im-
provement purposes.
The new R.A.F. jet-fighters
are not sufficiently off the secret
list, but records at 460 miles an
hour would certainly make their
pilots laugh.
And the American range of
craft, which was earlier developed
than the best of the British, is
imposing. The Thunderjet
(P-84) is designed for a speed of
over 600 m.p.h., has a ceiling of
40,000 ft. and a range of 1000
miles. This is the opposite
number of the Vampire, but the
F-84E which is already replacing
it has 25 per cent, more power,
has speed ranges “materially
above 600 m.p.h.” and a ceiling
above 45,000 ft. Its armament
includes six .50 m.gs., eight sin.
high-velocity rockets, 20001 b. of
bombs and depth-charges to suit
occasions. The first squadrons
are going to Panama.
Next comes the F-94 jet-
fighter, which is being produced
by Lockheed. This is a night-
fighter, built to fight on instru-
ments at very high altitudes, with
radar-finding equipment. About
100 are already on order.
The very newest thing in the
United States, however, is the
X-l, the first experimental
rocket-plane. It is a midget with
a wing-span of 28ft., 31ft. long,
and is launched from mother air-
craft. The first was let go by a
B-29 in 1946 at 25,000 ft. It is
pressurised and flown by a pilot
who is also pressurised, and it
burns liquid oxygen and ethyl-
alcohol in its four rocket motors.
Even in June, 1948, it was an-
nounced that it had many times
flown beyond the speed of sound
—760 m.p.h.—at sea-level and
around 660 m.p.h. at 30,000 ft.
On September 28, the U.S. Air
Secretary, Mr. Symington, an-
nounced that it had flown
“hundreds of miles faster” than
the speed of sound and had left
other fighters standing. How-
ever, U.S. Secretaries are apt at
times to be a little excitable when
advertising their products.
The bombers, which in normal
air campaigns of the past have
not been notable for speed
ranges, have caught up remark-
ably.
The extremely-heavies, such as
the B-36, are not speedy by
present standards —just about the
level of the Spitfire and the
Hurricane in the glorious days
of the Battle of Britain when
bombers used to lope along
round the 180 and 200 m.p.h.
marks. The ceiling of these
monsters, however, has been
phenomenal. It is becoming
certain that groundlings will see
nothing of the next air-war's
battles. They will be fought out
of sight of the terrestrial world,
in the regions above 30,000 ft.,
and will be pushed higher and
higher with the increase of effi-
ciency in aiming devices and the
widening of the splather of
bombs so as to reduce the need
for pin-point accuracy.
The B-36 has a ceiling of
40,000 ft. Its wing-span is 230 ft.,
length 163 ft. and rudder height
over 47ft.
It carries 30 tons of bombs to
40,000 ft., a crew of 15 and has
16 20mm. cannon fireable by
remote-control in its turrets—-a
formidable customer. Its range
is about 12,000 miles in the
modem versions. It was in large-
scale production early this year.
The YB Flying Wing, a
Northrop product, was tested in
October last year. Its h.p. is
32,000 in eight jets—almost as
much as a battleship of 30,000
tons before World War I. It is
a curious-looking creature, only
53ft. long, but with a span of
172 ft. Its bomb capacity is 15
tons. And it would have no
difficulty in knocking the
R.A.A.F.’s much - advertised
speed record into a cocked-hat.
On February 9 last it flew
across the United States 2258
miles in four hours 25 minutes —
an average of 511.2 m.p.h., or
50 m.p.h, better than the
Vampire’s single-hour best on
the Melbourne flight.
This, however, was easily
beaten by the XB-47 Stratojet on
February 8, when it flew from
Washington State in the n.w.
comer of the United States to
Andrews Field in Maryland,
2289 miles, in three hours 46
minutes, at an average of 607
m.p.h. It carries 10 tons of
bombs.
It can be taken for granted, in
view of known performances of
existing British aircraft and par-
ticularly of British civil aircraft
development, that Britain has not
been left behind. In fact, it is
likely that in the fighter field she
is a little in front.
Looking back, most nations
will continue to see Mr. Drake-,
ford plodding manfully along
far in the rear hauling his crates
and contributing nothing to air-
craft development.
The Red Army and
Europe.
The U.S. Senate joint com-
mittee has reported that the Red
Army now has 5,000,000 men
on the establishment and “is
steadily increasing its military
might.”
The details given by the com-
mittee state that the military
budget has been increased 19 p.c.
in the U.S.S.R. since last year,
and that re-equipment has placed
the Army in a better position
than at any time in its history.
German-based forces have
been reorganised and increased
to 100,000 ; there, however, is no
report on statistics of troops out-
side Germany but immediately
available for use in that country,
though it is stated that Russia
has intensified security measures
along her borders.
The Western countries are. not
idle in counter-planning, though
real counter-measures have yet
to come. A defence committee
of 12 Foreign Ministers, with
military and • Chiefs-of-Staffs
advice, has been established, and
it is to be hoped that it is an
improvement on the committees
which functioned during World
War 11.
Its habitat will be Washing-
ton, and to make it thoroughly
impermanent and assure that
there will be no long-term direc-
tion of policy the chairman-
ship will rotate annually among
the 12 Foreign Ministers.
Already this body has ordered
“studies of war-material pro-
duction among the nations in-
volved,” and it will meet once
a year “at least” to discuss the
reams of paper which are sure
to accumulate out of its de-
liberations.
All the essentials for a good,
solid bureaucratic expansion
have been laid.
There is to be a standing com-
mittee in Washington to “co-
ordinate and integrate” the work
of “regional planning groups”
—northern European, western
European, southern European,
North Atlantic Ocean and
Canada and the United States.
There appears to be great joy
that everybody is in agreement,
but this is only so because
nothing concrete has been done
and because the Powers involved,
with one or two exceptions, are
as weak as wet paper.
When the strength of France
begins to grow, and when the
regional committees have grown
and when the egos of various
commanders, planners and ex-
positors have had a chance to
grow, intercourse will not be so
easy, and a few responsible
people who are not conscious
that they possess an ego will
begin to yearn for the return of
Kitchener, who was reputed to
conduct campaigns with the aid
of a sheaf of telegrams in his hat,
or Wellington who almost in-
variably burnt War Office cor-
respondence, without losing any
battles in consequence.
The first necessary step for
defence in Western Europe is the
building up of the confidence of
each Power to defend itself. And
that can only be done at home
in each of them. The present
scheme looks more like a birth-
day-party with Uncle Sam as the
host than like a solid protective
measure against the Russians,
who are not very strong on con-
ferring, and some of whose
generals have the habits of Wel-
lington and Kitchener in the
matter of “planning.”


TH E HA LLMARK 0 F QUALITY
:
I
m
pure Australian
VIRGIN WOOL
jJLJI
FALLS
LIMITED
CsManufacturers of
FINE WORST EDS
ABBOTSFORD,
VICTORIA,
AUSTRALIA
WBm
m
- -P ;
i|||i|
P, v % * %
■■ant
% A A :. •x$
*' <
' ???■ > ;< N
, ' w
pip
■ ■ plii
Wmft
fay/' '■■■ <"
ite '
p| iiiii
fcx. •; x ; - • ■•
:


“THE GUARDSMAN’
TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
MODEL X 246
r*
in
lV iAmS
High Polished Finish in the
Modern Speculum Plated Process
Heat Resisting Durosil Glass
TILLEY... LAMPS
BIJBJV ORDINARY PARAFFIN
The Lamps with
the Happy Mantle!
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturers 9 Representatives :•
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl
SUNDRY SHOWS
ROYAL ART SOCIETY.
Everywhere in this year’s
Royal Art Society exhibition at
Sydney Education Department
Galleries there is quality above
the average. In the watercolor
section, which is usually weak,
instead of just seeing one little
landscape looking like another
little landscape, one comes across
a surprising “Frogmouth” by
John Baird ; G. K. Townshend,
usually seen only in grey, has
turned over a new green leaf in
“Gloucester Landscape,” and, in
“Approaching Storm,” deepens
the grey to an ominous and
deeply effective purple; Walter
Dowman excels himself in
a river-fishing scene, marred
only by the patchy treat-
ment of the far bank ; and there
are also very good watercolors
by Dora Toovey, Margaret
Coen, Elaine Coghlan and
(“Flood Rain”) Rufus Morris.
The impressions that stay
most clearly in the mind after
seeing the hundreds of paintings
in the exhibition, the strongest
which the Royal Art Society has
held for many years, are the
vigor and boldness, combined
with the delicacy of the under-
water figures, of Norman
Lindsay’s “Sea Idyll” and the
cavalcade of color and riotous
joy in Lindsay’s “Urs Graf in
Heaven” ; the silvery foam rush-
ing and twisting in silvery light
in Lance Solomon’s “Sea Piece,”
the loveliest painting he has yet
exhibited, and the warm and
peaceful lyricism of Solomon’s
“Blue Haze” ; the grace of Mary
Edwards’s “Portrait of Pearl,”
the sumptuous colors of her
“Fijian Girl with Fruit”; the
bizarre technique and exotic
vitality of Roland Strasser’s
“Two Wise Men from Bali” and
“In the Fields of Shansi”; the
unexpected force of Hayward
Veal’s portrait of Mrs. C. T,
Lorenz; and the charm Garrett
Kingsley has at last managed to
achieve in his studies of women,
particularly “Youth.”
* ♦ * *
No particular period or any
particular school is represented
at Sydney Grosvenor Galleries’
“Spring Exhibition.” There is a
large Blamire Young of white
gum-boles against a vast hillside
across a gully, at once superb in
space and technique and rather
empty; a small Gruner of the
thin-paint period, totally lacking
in his finer qualities ; a reason-
able Penleigh Boyd, pleasing in
its massed foliage along a
river-bank; a typically clean
Hans Heysen watercolor and
a typically rich Nora Heysen
flowerpiece; and there is
new work by Lance Solomon,
George Lawrence, Leonard
Long, Margaret Preston, Eric
Langker, Robert Johnson, Paul
Jones and others. The outstand-
ing paintings are the Blamire
Young, George Lawrence’s
harsh impressions of winter and
Lance Solomon’s “Along the
Road”—a flock of sheep and a
horseman caught in a mood of
afternoon tranquillity among
filtered sunlight and the greenery
of sapling gums {minted with
precision and delight. As a
whole, because of the mixture of
styles and periods, because even
a poor Gruner is worth looking
at, and because of the sprinkling
of excellent paintings, it is an
exceptionally interesting exhibi-
tion.
* * * *
A considerable amount of
dark and clumsy struggling to-
wards some indefinable goal
goes on at the Sydney Group
exhibition at David Jones's
Gallery. Orban marches in un-
appeasable gloom; James
Gleeson, his small pictures
making effective designs, re-
volves in the common surrealist
nightmare of sex and religion ;
Sydney Nolan strides out into
the desert and does a perish ;
Francis Lymburner has Beauty
struggling out of a stormy back-
ground ; the figures inside
Loudon SainthilTs costumes are
sunk in strange woe; Sali Her-
man, after his recent happy trip
to Bathurst, returns to reform
the slums by immortalising
buildings that ought to be
pulled down; Paul Haefliger
seems to be floundering in
engine-oil; and Donald Friend,
in the large “Apocalypse,” has
struggled up to heaven, where
he has been trying to get for a
long time. Friend’s painting,
which contains everything from
shark’s-teeth .Jo angels, is the
most impressive; it may be
rather a shallow heaven, but its
intricacies are interesting to ex-
plore and it is attractive in
color.
* * ♦ »
After the Sydney Group one
proceeds to David Jones’s Little
Gallery, where Emile Mercier’s
drawings from Sydney “Sun” are
on view: including, appropri-
ately, two bedraggled ladies from
the slums gazing at a poster
advertising Eta o i n Shrdlu’s
Pyorrhea Detergent (which won
65 gold medals at the Omsk
Exhibition, 1861), while one of
them says airily to the other,
“Even though the evocative
lyricism may at times become
overtenuous it nevertheless
achieves an aesthetically inte-
grated euphony” . , . which, in
one hit, gives three of Mercier’s
special qualities: his wit as a
social satirist, his humanity, and
his delightful nonsensicality.
Mercier’s chief claim to fame at
the moment is that he makes the
“Sim” worth paying threepence
for; but he will yet be a
national figure, for there has
been nobody since Lennie Lower
so closely in touch with the
comedy of everyday Australian
life, and, like Lower, he has not
only the common touch but a
touch of comic genius—running,
in some of the larger colored
drawings, to adventures in the
macabre which may take him a
long way as an illustrator as well
as a popular humorist.
* * * *
Alistair Roberts’s Ariel, in
John Alden’s production of
“The Tempest” at the Indepen-
dent Theatre, North Sydney, is
such a beautiful creation, such
“an airy spirit,” such a glittering,
flickering thing of nowhere and
everywhere that the whole per-
formance is worth seeing for that
alone. Indeed, Roberts’s per-
formance and Constable’s setting
—gnarled old trees with their
roots twisting over the dark
mouths of caves and their limbs
framing the sea and mountain-
tops wreathed in cloud —offer
such a night’s entertainment that
one forgets or brushes easily by
any deficiencies in the produc-
tion. Ferdinand and Miranda
might be a little flat; Alonso,
Sebastian, Antonio and Gonzalo
might talk a little too fast —in
pursuit of naturalness, one sus-
pects ; Caliban, Trinculo and
Stephano might run perilously
close to a Punch and Judy show ;
and even Alden himself, though
otherwise excellent, might seem
at times rather more like pro-
ducer Alden watching over his
actors than like Prospero watch-
ing and controlling the destinies
of his “subjects” ; but Roberts’s
Ariel, Constable’s d£cor, the
costumes, also designed by
Roberts, the technical efficiency
and overall conception of the
production carry the night
effortlessly.
* * * *
“The Tempest” is showing at
the Independent on Wednesday
nights; Thursday, Friday and
Saturday are given to Adrian
Borzell’s production of Machia-
velli’s “Mandragola,” very
clever, very funny and very like
a dramatisation of a Balzac droll
story or one from the De-
cameron. David Nettheim as the
old lawyer who eagerly, if un-
wittingly, makes a cuckold of
himself, and Marcel Wattel as
the architect of the complicated
trickery, both give particularly
fine performances. The play in-
evitably recalls Jonson’s “Vol-
pone,” and, good as it is, makes
one wonder if there is a better
comedy than Jonson’s rich, flash-
ing masterpiece.
♦ * * ♦
Sydney Tivoli’s current bill
is a cracker —smart, fast and
funny and dressed like something
out of the band-box. There isn’t
a dull act in it, and the best of
a lot of good ones is Ben Wrigley,
a human universal joint who
seems able to look himself in the
face without turning his head,
and to move about with such
peculiar angularity that his body
appears to go in any direction
except that which his feet are
taking it. Oliver Wakefield, “the
voice of inexperience,” does
much the same thing verbally,
stumbling enthusiastically
through a lot of words about
nothing in particular and spatter-
ing the air with innuendo and
guffaws from the audience.
Roily Rolls at the piano, impres-
sionist Paul Regan, “The Whirl-
wind Elwardos,” whose acro-
batics more than justify their
title, and the diminutive “Swiss
Stars,” who perform almost her-
culean feats, all contribute sub-
stantially to a programme of tip-
top vaudeville,
Howard M. Lockhart’s “The
Story of Madeleine Smith,”
produced by Kuringai Theatre
Guild, is a play in which
it would be hard to .go
wrong. The name-part, which
keeps Naida Redshaw busy
most of the evening, is held
strictly within the Not Proven
verdict of the Scottish jury:
whether Madeleine Smith,
beautiful daughter of a Glasgow
architect (O. D. Bisset), put
arsenic in the cocoa of her lover,
Emile L’Angelier (Richard
Meikle)? Thus, if Miss Red-
shaw’s fresh young energy makes
you think Madeleine couldn’t
have done it, well, maybe she
didn’t; or if it makes you think
of an awakening tigress, well,
maybe she did—and in either
case, or especially if it leaves you
uncertain, it is good acting. The
other parts, and the production
in general, have a businesslike
efficiency which, while it shows
that the Kuringai Theatre Guild
is capable of portraying such
events, makes it quite clear to
the audience that such things
could never have happened in a
place like Killara.
* * * *
Brisbane’s Twelfth Night
Theatre presented pleasantly in
less than three hours what we
have endured unpleasantly for
over three years—much talk
about efficient national health
schemes, town planning and
other politicians’ delights. W.
Chetham Strode’s “The Gleam”
presents the case of a doctor who
refuses to replace the love of his
profession by a book of regula-
tions and a card-index. Owen
Ryan, deputising at short notice,
achieved the sincerity and en-
thusiasm the role demanded.
Excellent performances were
given by Diana Bell and Mary
England.
* * * *
Musica Viva, with Hephzibah
Menuhin at the keyboard
with the usual four string
players, gave a first performance
of Shostakovich’s Piano Quintet
at Sydney Con. As a soporific
the work beats phenpbarbitone
by a short quaver. Abstruse
and long, it deteriorates rapidly
after the few , opening bars of
the Prelude, meandering into
unsavory byways until it casts
up into a Finale, the sole merit
of which is its comparative
brevity. The other two items
were the Cesar Franck Piano
Quintet, its strange mixture of
grandeur and austerity well
limned by the players, and the
Beethoven Quartet in F Major,
Op. 95, the slow second move-
ment of this concise and sober
work being suitably invested by
the performers with meditation
and a degree of poignancy.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be
addressed to the Editor,
Downunder: Keep it down....
R.A.: “A Warning to Single Men
is ancient in theme, elementary in
execution and ungallant in sentiment.
M.H.: “Ho, for I write when the
fancy takes me.” Then ho, you’re
away, you’re away C.M.S.: Un-
able to swallow “A Cup of ....
R.McD.: Keep coming. ...E.M.:
Too slight to say whether or not
they’re promising G. 8.: “The
Debt” was well-contracted, badly
repaid.... You should have
murdered the woman who wrote the
love-letter to her husband’s mate
without disguising her handwriting.
H.R.: “Granddad’s Watermelon
was a good idea, but you didn’t make
a story of it....D.M.: “People I
Have Met” —you didn’t get to know
very we 11... .E.J.W.: Began nowhere
and ended nowhere A.R.C.: Only
a paragraph, if true R.t.0..
“Shepherd’s Pie” might do as a boot,
but the separate stones are too
ruminant for us N.G.: w®
thought that stuff about being nice
to testators went out with King Lear.
W A C.: Damon Runyon did it
better.... L.S.: . “The Map” was
right out of this world.. ..r.1.G..
“Mother Went to Sydney ; and last
time we saw her was on her wa
home again... .J.D.: All that fuss
over asking a girl to marry him. • •••
G. ; She went for a ride on the
wrong horse and arrived at the
paper... .J.T.: The short story in
which nothing happens has to'Strut-
us in a vacant m00d... .A.M.w..
Not serious enough to be funny... ■
H. Whatever it is, it isnt a
story....J.F. and J.McC.: Stones bv
dogs shaggy or otherwise,
on sight P.: “The Grey Stallion
hardly worth more than a paragrap ■


i
F/jQ
S tfOfj
/in k i„
th * c hai
gest
:
i s
w
The most vital part of a ball-point pen is the
refill. Unless you are assured of 100 %service
in this direction your pen cannot serve you fully.
Biro —the world’* n>ost famous ball-point pen-
is obtainable throughout the Eastern hemis-
phere. Discriminating writers choose Biro
“Minor” for the dependability of this service as
much as for Biro’* convenience and ease of
writing. Biro refills are guaranteed to give
satisfaction In whatever country they are sold.
They start writing and keep on writing. Biro
is always at your service.
At Stationers, Jewellers and Stores
fBIRO “M/NOR
Complete
with Cap
in four at-
tractive ink colours
the outer
cass#6iaclc, bljue, mm,
I' ',m
h ■ m
Refill inserts 3/9 each
Buy as many as you want!
o
BALL
BMP3/16A
POINT PEN
Office Space Wanted.
N.S.W. RUGBY UNION desires rent office
space sufficient for three offices and meet-
ing-room. Reply Secretary, 10-12 Spring
Street, Sydney.
For Accuracy
and Distinction
IAVINA
Watches
/
5?
%
&
— Jewelled
r Swiss Masterpieces
wHb NON-M4GNETIC
ESCAPEMENT
IAVINA
WATCHES
Founded in 1852 ....
L VILLERCT, SUISSE _I
LW.S
A
A
S7k
\
Ancestors of
an Industry
Sir William Bragg, together with his
son Sir Lawrence Bragg, was the originator of the
modern technique of the X-ray analysis of cry-
stals which has proved invaluable in unravelling
the atomic structure of solid substances. By this
means he was able to show how the atoms are
arranged in crystals and even to throw light on
their arrangement in such substances as silk,
rayon, cotton and nylon. The technique is now
in regular use in both academic and industrial
laboratories.
Born in Cumberland in 1862, and educated at
King William’s College, Isle of Man, Bragg
graduated as third wrangler at Cambridge in
1884. He held important academic appointments
in Australia, Leeds and London, including the
Directorship of the Davy-Faraday research
laboratory at the Royal Institution, where much
of his work was carried out. He and his
son were jointly awarded the Nobel Prize for
physics in 1915, and they were honoured by
universities and learned societies
in all parts of the world. He re-
ceived his Knighthood in 1920,
and the Order of Merit in 1931.
He died in 1942.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
IL-86-1* ■"
ICI
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The 1948 edition of the “Austral-
asian Turf Register” listed three horses
whose names commenced with Dollar
and 193 commencing with Gold. It
is expected that the ratio will alter
materially in the near future.
* * * *
Saturday was Guineas day at Rose-
hill, where a crowd of 24,000 put
£94,000 through the tote and had the
satisfaction of seeing a fair propor-
tion of favorites successful, though in
most cases the prices were too short
to interest the small punter. Among
the winners Indian Chief started at
twos, Benvolo at evens, while Lady
Pirouette and Acquittal were each
odds-on propositions.
Run at a hopelessly muddling pace
and miC?r>jd by interference galore,
the Guineas was a somewhat farcical
affair; nobody wanted the lead, and
they fell over each other trying to
avoid it, the field meanwhile bunch-
ing up in alarming fashion. The
rider of Silverjax was the first to
take the initiative, moving his mount
up sharply to take the lead at the
six and hold it for a couple of fur-
longs. Field Boy took charge at
the half-mile and led into the
straight: he was then quickly over-
hauled by Dickens, who was in turn
challenged by Thracian Lad and
Delta. They went on to the post
with Thracian Lad winning by a
length, Delta a fast-finishing second,
Dickens third and Field Boy fourth.
The stewards’ report mentioned
Delta as having twice struck inter-
ference —once after passing the 7-
furlongs mark and again approach-
ing the home turn; he may have been
unlucky. At any rate, as regards
Derby prospects Delta can be re-
garded as having won the Guineas,
Thracian Lad, a gelding, being in-
eligible for the classic. Delta, of
course, did win the Canterbury
Guineas, and in excellent style.
Actually, in recent years the Rosehill
Guineas has not been an over-reliable
Derby guide. The last horse to bring
off the double was Tea Rose, in
1944, and fillies capable of winning
a Derby are pretty much freaks in
any case. Derby winners since then
have been Magnificent, Concerto,
Valiant Crown and Carbon Copy.
Magnificent was beaten pointless in
the Guineas by the filly Questing.
Concerto finished ninth at Rosehill.
Valiant Crown tried to lead all the
way in the Guineas and weakened
into third place; he then came out
and won the Derby from go to whoa.
Last year Carbon Copy was unplaced
in the Guineas, as were also Comic
Court and Vagabond.
Takers of early Epsom-Metrop.
doubles commencing with the well-
fancied candidates Beau Robert,
Dynamite, Denali and Filipino were
prepared to sell out cheap after seeing
their fancies perform in the 7-fur-
longs Theo Marks Quality Handicap;
Dynamite did best in running a
weakish fourth. Hisign, The Groom
and Phalanx fought out a rattling
finish to pass the post in that order
with margins of a head and a long-
head between them. The Groom won
the Marks Quality last/year, and the
honors were probably with him this
time; he earned 9st. to Hisign’s 7.13
and Phalanx’s 7.4. The Groom has
8.8 in the Epsom, and, as previously
suggested here, should give a very
good account of himself; but he has
to concede almost 2st. to Count
Aulone, who is the reigning favorite,
and for very good reasons.
Metrop. candidates who took the
air at Rosehill did so either in the
Auburn Mixed or the Rosehill Handi-
cap (both of 10 furlongs), and after
the running of those races the more
short of memory were declaring that
the Metrop. lies between Benvolo,
Indian Chief and Sir Falcon; all-
forgotten, apparently, is Snowstream s
brilliant win at Randwick the pre-
vious week.
Neither Benvolo in the Auburn
Mixed nor Indian Chief in the
Handicap ever looked in much
danger of defeat. Both were ridden
model races (by J. Thompson and
N. Sell wood, respectively), moving up
gradually to hit the front at the dis-
tance and win comfortably. Sir
Falcon, runner-up to Benvolo, and
Set Purpose, second to Indian Chief,
both finished well, but were safely
held. There seemed little to choose
between the efforts of Benvolo,
Indian Chief and Sir Falcon. Indian
Chief won the seemingly better-class
race, but it was not a much-better-
class field he beat. Sir Falcon was
well enough held by Benvolo, but
meets that horse on 111 b. better
terms in the Metrop.
» * * *
Punters had a harrowing time at
Flemington on Saturday, when only
one favorite got up in eight races,
but ideal weather and the pleasure
of watching another stirring duel
between Comic Court and Carbon
Copy did much to ease the agony.
Comic Court and Carbon Copy
clashed for the 12th time in the
10-furlongs w.f.a. Craiglee Stakes,
and Comic Court, answering every
demand made by his rider, J. Purtell,
brought the score to 7-5 in his favor.
Other runners, Stamen, Ellershe,
Clement, Saxony, Bruin and Blue
Legend, were never in the hunt, al-
though the 200-to-l chance Brum
was gladly conceded the privilege of
setting the pace. Bruin still led as
they commenced the run home, but
the two champion four-year-olds soon
forged ahead of the field. Breasley
had kept Carbon Copy close behind
Comic Court all the way, but the
advantage of having the run on his
opponent proved of no avail. Comic
Court fought on gallantly to win by
a neck, with no excuses possible for
any of those whom he beat.
Comic Court’s performances in
Melbourne must be a puzzle to
Sydney racegoers. Those who have
seen him in action only at the last
AJ.C. spring and autumn carnivals
“Bloomin' bike seems to have lost its zip since that last
could scarcely conceive Comic Court
as ever even remotely troubling
Carbon Copy. Comic Court’s utter
uselessness on the clockwise going in
Sydney is a remarkable thing; cer-
tainly it’s not shared by his full-
brother Comedy Prince, who, shutt-
ling to and fro, has won races in
Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide.
Despite Comic Court’s record of
having beaten Carbon Copy every
time they had met at Flemington,
Carbon Copy started favorite at 10
to 9 for the Craiglee, with Comic
Court at 6to 4. Saturday’s result
has had no effect on the market for
the two Cups other than to make
Comic Court a more solid favorite
than ever for the Caulfield and Car-
bon Copy likewise for the Melbourne
Cup. Connections may, of course,
try for the two Cups with Comic
Court, but surely he is wonderfully
well in the Melbourne Cup in receipt
of 71b. from Carbon Copy.
Two divisions of the 10-furlongs
Burleigh Handicap for three-year-olds
gave connections a last chance to
decide if their young hopefuls were
worth taking to Sydney for the
£lO,OOO A.J.C. Derby, Centurion
and Canopus started equal favorites
at 5 to 2 for the first division, and
both disappointed. Centurion did
the better in finishing third, but he
was soundly beaten by the 12-to-l
chance Greek Legend, who led all
the way to win by one and a half
lengths from Vonssoir, with Cen-
turion two lengths further back. The
New Zealand-bred Birdman (S.
Ralph) started a warm favorite (7
to 4) for the second Burleigh, and
gamely earned his trip to Sydney,
though he was a very tired colt at
the finish. Birdman had to call
upon every ounce left in him to stave
off Cragwil, to whom he was con-
ceding 161 b. The margin was a
half-head, with Halrona six lengths
away third.
* ♦ * ♦
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Three-year-old: Val Bowl, 1; High
Jip, 2; Niska, 3. Parramatta Mixed:
Acquittal, 1; Fast Stream, 2; Grand
Romance, 3. Auburn Mixed: Play-
boy, 1; Beau China, 2; Carapooe, 3.
September Handicap: Snowstream, 1;
Moneith, 2; Persist, 3. Hill Stakes:
King’s Ransom, 1; Bernbrook, 2;
Filipino, 3. Flying: Homeleigh Dick,
1; Smooth Action, 2; Heroic Sov-
ereign, 3, Welter: Newborough, 1,
Caribbean, 2; Farhad, 3.
• • * *
In the rash of books, etc., which
have appeared since the last cricket
tour of England most of the experts
have advanced their pet theories re-
garding the present poor standard of
the game in England. Some of the
theories bear the hall-mark of sheer
moonshine, but most touch some rele-
vant point, and the real explanation
is probably a combination of the lot.
What seems a particularly pertinent
fact is noted in “Physical Recrea-
tion ”■ an official British sporting
quarterly: “Since _ 1939 the number
of cricket pitches in London County
Council parks and open spaces has
fallen from 350 to 80.”
« * * *
The American golf pros held the
Ryder Cup against Britain on their
singles play. They were down 3 to 1
in the foursomes, but won 6 to 2
in the singles. The matches were
played on the Gan ton (Yorkshire)
course. Not since 1933 has Britain,
inventor of the maddening game,
produced a winning Ryder Cup team.
* * * *
Dr. W. D. Ackland-Horman (Royal
Adelaide) and W. S. Rymill (Koo-
yonga) won the Australian amateur
foursomes championship at Seaton
(S.A.) in 1935 and 1938. They did
it again on Saturday, this time at
Royal Sydney, with 153 for 72 holes,
one stroke less than the Tasmanian
pair, Nettlefold and Brown, and two
Victorian pairs, Edgar and Routley
and Duffy and Mitchell.
ne * * *
Playing with the “Same Old”
steadiness that has characterised them
for years, Essendon countered the
racing, chasing North Melbourne on
Saturday, took the lead early, and
held it to the finish, 11.12 to 9.7.
The Dons meet Carlton in the “grand
final” next Saturday. Ilie crowd
numbered 69,281, a record for a
V.F.L. preliminary final, and it got
its money’s worth, especially in the
last quarter, when North reduced
the Dons’ lead to three points; the
Dons recovered, to forge ahead again,
then North got within five points.
But grand ruck work by Bob
McClure, Essendon’s star of the day,
produced another goal, and when
Reynolds kicked another on the bell,
North was out. So was Reynolds,
having been felled as he kicked.
* * ♦ *
Sydney Rugby Union competition
concluded on Saturday, but the win-
ners, Gordon, should be able to keep
themselves in form through the sum-
mer by kicking themselves every time
they think of the solitary defeat they
suffered on the way through to the
premiership. Nevertheless, theirs was
a splendid performance, and one that
hadn’t been achieved previously in
the history of Sydney first-grade
competition. University administered
the only licking Gordon stopped on
the way through, and the Gordon
men took ample revenge in over-
whelming the Students 12-3 in the
grand final, viewed by 10,000 wild
enthusiasts at North Sydney Oval on
Saturday. It was Gordon’s first win
since entering the competition in
1936, and should give the game a
great boost on the north side of the
Harbor, where it has not hitherto
been at its best.
* * * *
At Invercargill (N.Z.) on Saturday
the touring Wallabies licked South-
land 15-10. It was the first time that
Southland had gone under to a tour-
ing team in the 54 vears that Aus-
tralia and New Zealand have been
tackling each other at Rugby Union.
* * * *
Himself as pretty a boxer as the
Australian ring has seen in years,
Hockey Bennell has turned to train-
ing ’em, and the results he has
achieved with one or two lads sug-
gest that Hockey may be the answer
to Australian boxing’s crying need
for a really good tutor. Present
observer has seen few boxers improve
so much as has Jimmy Hogg in the
short time Bennell has had him m
hand. At Leichhardt last week Hogg
completely outboxed Billy Roberts,
both boys scaling B.l|. When the
same pair met a month back Hogg
received a decision which was hooted
to the rafters, but this time he won
by a mile, and the Leichhardt barn
echoed to the unfamiliar sound of
unanimous applause.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work*
'4i'
W.
4oz.| Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes ... Hardware and general stores.
ET PERFORMANCE
FOR YOUR
CAR!
This ingenious invenh'on is soring
money and trouble for many
motorists, and, to further popular-
ise it, five hundred hare been set
aside for free distribution, on one
condition.
Of course you wish to improve
your engine performance and re-
duce running expenses, so tear
out this announcement, attach
name and address, and post to-day.
This will not obligate you in any
way.
H. W. ROBINSON, TURRAMURRA,
N.S.W.
'Phone JW1535.
B. 21/9/’49
Increased power for bursts of speed
and hill climbing; split-second
pick - up; sensitive accelerator-
response; smoothras-silk engine
operation; quicker starting and
worth-while petrol savings may be
yours by equipping your car with
a British Electro-energiser.
Can be speedily installed and
adjusted to suit any internal com-
bustion engine, except Ford V 8
and those with magneto ignition.
No cutting or drilling. Cannot
harm coil, plugs, or ignition leads.
THE MAND ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Merino Decline in S. Africa.
“Bungaree”: Latest statistics
of the sheep population of South
Africa have shown such a de-
crease in Merinos that the Gov-
ernment is discussing ways and
means of restoring one of its
primary exports.
Investigations have proved
that while droughts were respon-
sible to some degree they could
not be blamed entirely. Actually,
the decrease was greater in the
higher-rainfall areas than in the
arid districts.
In Australia we have breeds
raised primarily for wool, others
for fat-lamb production, and
various crosses which combine
both features ; nevertheless, all
these types grow wool. In South
Africa, however, in addition to
the types mentioned, there are
also non-woolled sheep, chiefly
Karakuls and indigenous breeds.
These are much hardier than the
imported types and can get along
without the constant battle
against internal and external
parasites, particularly blowfly,
that is necessary with Merinos.
The figures showed that in
many districts, while woolled
sheep decreased in numbers,
there was an increase in the non-
woolled animals amounting to
as much as 200 per cent, in one
instance. Nevertheless, the com-
bined totals still showed a steady
drop. From a total of over 40
millions in 1929, woolled sheep
had dropped to millions in
1947. The non-woolled in-
creased in that period from 4}
millions to 6} millions. In the
higher-rainfall areas (over 20in.)
the drop in woolled sheep occa-
sionally reached as high as 80
per cent.
The cause was largely
economic. Cattle-raising and
agriculture had displaced sheep
because of,better returns; labor
troubles and difficulties in coping
with blowfly parasites and grass-
seed affected sheep-raising.
It is evident that South African
Merino quality has deteriorated ;
attributed to poor management,
overstocking and lack of
standards, among other things.
Small farmers are mainly blamed
for these defections, and the
remedy contemplated is educa-
tion by departmental experts in
breeding methods, culling, the
necessity for good rams and the
choice of suitable types of sheep
for different types of country.
Other things to be dealt with
include the best times for mating
and lambing in different locali-
ties, nutrition, culling ewes for
lack of fertility and poor milk
production and, most important,
the recognition of good wool and
its preparation for market.
The report deals only with the
period ended 1947. Since then,
wool values have skyrocketed
and must have swung many
breeders back to the Merino. It
is still evident, however, that the
South African Government
realises that it has a long-term
problem on its hands. It must
have a better Merino foundation
to work on, as a rush to breed
from culls and poor-type ewes
will have an adverse effect on
the reputation of the African
clip that will not be balanced
by the immediate high prices for
wool.
Producing Good Beef.
“Outback”: Dr. N. M.
Yeates, lecturer in animal pro-
duction at Queensland Univer-
sity, considers that to pay undue
attention to length of leg in
beef cattle is a somewhat nega-
tive approach to the question of
breeding for beef conformation.
Experimental growth studies, he
says, have revealed that a “wave”
of growth proceeds along an
animal from the fore to the
hind part of the skeleton, the
loin and pelvic regions being the
last to reach full development.
A similar “wave” passes up
the limbs, the upper end of
limbs being later-developing
parts than the lower ends. Since
the upper, and particularly the
upper hind, portions of a meat
animal are the most valuable, it
is clearly important that the two
“waves” of growth should be
pushed to their utmost limit.
Experimental studies had de-
monstrated that particular parts
of the skeleton have different
rates of growth at particular
times.
At birth a calf is nearly all
head and legs, indicating that
these structures have been
through a relatively rapid phase
of growth prior to calving. Sub-
sequent to calving, however, if
nutrition was adequate, the
growth rate of head and legs
was rapidly outstripped by that
of other skeletal parts, and not
only did the animal increase in
size but it also changed its con-
formation, or shape.
In considering the growth of
meat animals the principal
tissues involved were bone,
muscle and fat, and the major
development occurred in that
order. In the early stages bone
increase had priority, and this
was the position during foetal
and pre-pubertal life, but, at
about puberty, bone growth
slackened markedly and muscle
commenced to take over as the
rapidly-growing tissue. Finally,
when both bone and muscle had
passed through their rapid-
growth stages, more of the in-
coming nutrients were available
for conversion to fat, and this
tissue was laid down in increas-
ing amounts.
This offered a ready explana-
tion of the difficulty of fatten-
ing a calf, and the relative ease
with which an older animal
might be fattened. There
seemed good theoretical grounds
for the assertion that if a high
standard in development of
back, loin, rump and pelvic
region was demanded, the legs
and other less valuable parts
would automatically preserve
desirable proportions.
Useful Pines.
“Nota Bene”: Excellent
shelter for stock and a profitable
investment for the future is
Pi mis radiata planted in rows
around boundary and sub-
division fences. These tall pines
are hardy and rapid growers,
attaining a height of approxi-
mately 60ft. in 15 years. P.
radiata grows best in light, well-
drained, loamy soil in the higher-
rainfall areas.
When selecting seedlings use
only those with a straight, sturdy
stem, with fairly well-developed
lateral roots. Avoid double-
headers and multiple stems.
They should be planted in deep-
ploughed and well-cultivated
ground in two rows, 7ft. apart,
and with Bft. between pines.
Superphosphate, a bag per acre,
should be applied either before
or during planting, with a further
light topdressing of super, in
the second and third years. The
young trees up to four or five
years old must be protected from
rabbits.
When the pines are 10 years
old a further two rows could be
planted alongside the original
rows, so that when the first are
felled at maturity, the second
two rows will be large enough to
provide a windbreak and stock-
shelter.
At present prices a well-grown
pine will net 10 shillings per 100
super, feet. One stand of these
pines planted by the South Aust.
Department of Woods and
Forests some 25 years ago is
today estimated to be worth £7
per tree.
Inflate Correctly.
“Beroo”: As a loaded tyre
revolves power is absorbed in
the flexing of the tread and cas-
ing and in the compressing of
“It’s a push-over after the dirt-track!"
the rubber. This is because one
of the basic properties of rubber
is the absorption of a certain
proportion of whatever power or
energy is put into compressing
it. In a truck or other motor-
vehicle the source of this energy
is the engine, and so the greater
the flexing of the tyres—either
by overloading or under-infla-
tion—the greater the power re-
quired and the greater the fuel-
consumption of the engine.
Actual figures show that with
a six-wheeled truck at 20 m.p.h.
with a load of 30cwt. per wheel,
each tyre will consume 2\ horse-
power, a total of 15 horsepower.
With a 25 p.c. under-inflation
or overload 19 h.p. will be re-
quired and fuel consumption will
increase by 4 p.c.; a 50 p.c.
under-inflation and 25 h.p. is
needed with 10 p.c. or more in-
crease in fuel. Attention to in-
flation and the loading of the
tyres can thus return handsome
dividends.
The Small Orchard.
“R. Howie”; Unless he also
has cropping land the small
orchardist finds himself in a
quandary as regards traction
power. Small tractors are dear
and hard to get, and when
bought spend most of their time
in the shed. Where there’s no
sideline for the tractor a one-
horse plough is usually most
economical. It means feeding a
horse all the year, but Dobbin is
handier than the tractor for odd
jobs.
If a truck or utility is used for
these jobs it may pay to dispense
with the horse and buy a small
rotary hoe. This does a good
job, uses little petrol, can be
used close to the trees, and eats
nothing when not working.
The bigger hoes are beautiful
machines, but if the small man
contemplates spending that much
money he would probably prefer
a small tractor, which would be
more versatile. A hoe of, say,
five h.p. may be rather wasteful
of man-hours, but where acres
are few this may not be so im-
portant as saving on capital ex-
penditure, The five-horse job
may also prove a handier unit
for driving the grader, sawing
small quantities of wood or pro-
viding domestic water and elec-
tricity.
When buying a power unit, try
to think of as many uses for it
as possible, even if they are not
immediate ones. Besides the
orchard there may be shearing,
milking, feed-grinding or vege-
table-gardening to provide for.
A little forethought in the lay-
out of power facilities will save
a lot of hand work later on.
Sunflower Seed.
“He-Ne”; There is a good
market for sunflower seed, both
at home and abroad. Special
agronomist W. M. Curteis says
local oil-crushing firms are in-
terested in sunflower seed as a
substitute for olive and peanut
oil.
Last season from £3O to £4O
per ton was paid for graded seed
in Queensland, and at these
prices it is a paying crop. The
vegetable-oil shortage will pre-
vail for some time, during which
there will be a demand for sun-
flower seed, which contains from
25 to 35 per cent. oil. Being a
summer-growing crop sun-
flowers require a similar climate
to corn, and will grow under
drier conditions. They can be
grown on most soils provided
the organic matter is in reason-
able supply and there is good
drainage and moderate depth.
Curteis says the variety
Sunrise has proved most satis-
factory for header-harvesting
because of its dwarf habit, early
maturity, even ripening and re-
tention of seed at maturity.
Under normal conditions a
half-ton-per-acre yield can be
expected and double that under
irrigation.
R.A.S. Wheat Contests.
“C.S.”: Entries for the
N.S.W. 1949 wheat champion-
ships close next month for the
Northern, Central Slopes,
Western and Riverina Divisions,
and for the Southern Slopes
Division in November. Condi-
tions have been amended, and
growers may obtain particulars
from local agricultural societies,
local agronomists or from the
R.A.S., Sydney.
Cross-pollination of Grapes.
“Nubis”: Spray treatment is
far quicker than the ordinary
method of rubbing flower
bunches by hand. Pollen is sus-
pended in water by placing the
flowers in a container, pressing
down lightly 7, and covering with
water to about twice the original
volume occupied by the flowers.
Agitate thoroughly and then
strain through a fine gauze.
The pollination is done with
an atomiser; it should be on
the same day ag the pollen is
mixed, otherwise the pollen
grains may start to germinate.
Bunches should be wet
thoroughly to obtain a heavy
setting. A lighter setting can
be obtained by applying the
spray as a mist from a distance
of about 2ft. Perhaps a better
method of altering the degree
of setting is to vary the con-
centration of pollen grains in the
wa^? r ‘ .When the right concen-
tration is used, the necessity for
thinning out bunches is avoided,
with a consequent saving of time
and labor.
Making a Sight-rule.
‘ Gravelsnatcher”: Frequently,
in such jobs as draining-and-
channel irrigation, it is neces-
sary to determine beforehand
the fall of the land. Anyone
who has attempted to gauge
levels knows how nearly impos-
sible the job can be ; but a sight-
rule can be improvised.
Make a tripod to stand about
4ft. 6in. high, fitted at the top
with a clamp to hold a spirit-
level an ordinary wooden
level, preferably about 15in.
long. To each end of the level
attach a light bracket about
Hin. above the top of the level.
In one bracket bore a small
peep-hole and in the other
bracket make a larger hole,
across which are stretched two
hairs, or fine wires, one hori-
zontal and the other perpendicu-
lar, crossing in the centre of
the hole. The centres of both
holes must be exactly the same
height, measured from the bot-
tom of the spirit-level.
With the tripod set in posi-
tion, adjust the spirit-level until
it is dead level, then tighten the
clamp to hold it in position.
Drive a stake into the ground to
the height of the peep-hole and
another at the other end of the
line. Sight through the peep-
hole and have an assistant mark
the second stake at the point in-
dicated by the crossed hairs. By
measuring both stakes you have
the fall either way.
If the clamp at the top of the
tripod is made to swivel, so
much the better, A number )f
readings can then be taken with-
out moving the tripod or re-
adjusting the level.
Trapping.
“Beau Forte”: There is more
to trapping than being able to
set a trap well. The successful
trapper studies the habits of the
rabbits and works his area
systematically. Rabbits are in-
clined to travel ahead when be-
ing trapped, and a good trapper
will always work from the edges
of a patch (traps well out for a
start) into the centre. By doing
so he generally bottles the rabbits
up for his last night, unless some
other greedy or inexperienced
trapper gets in on him and up-
sets his system.
As the season wears on it
will be found that rabbits trap
better in bush country than they
do at the big warrens in the
open, where they are more
plentiful. I have noticed that
where rabbits are cunning they
trap better on rough nights when,
no doubt, the squeal from a
trapped rabbit cannot be heard


ẅ
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for Im-
provement or re-
> Recommend-
thousands.
o*3l or tend stamp for details, self-
measarwneat form and XJ Days' Frea
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Deft. 87), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1927.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona tides of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the reoord of the 12,000 Dissol-
vcnators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
R£.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.8.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
809 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Yio.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edmcnt’a Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney &
Co., Ltd., 441 Hurray St., Perth.
Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HELI/TOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
Improved by better blending of
matnre leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on QjO.D. Orders,
Missing Friends.
WILL JACK MATTHEWS, late of Moors-
ley, Hetton, O/o Durham, or any person
knowing his present whereabouts, please
communicate with F. WINLOW, 45 West
Sunniside, Sunderland, C/o Durham, Eng-
land.
ERIC tJNMAOK of Brisbane, after 40
years in America, is visiting Australia
early in 1950. Old personal friends
please write me at 635 Victoria Street,
San Francisco, California, U.S.A.
ESTATE OF GEORGE SULLIVAN,
Deceased.
WILL MARY McLAY MILLER, aged
approximately 43 years, last heard of in
Brisbane, daughter of Peter Miller and
Susam Mary Miller (nee Sullivan), or any
person aware of the present address or
able to give any information concerning
Mary McLay Miller please communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE FOR VIC-
TORIA, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM STEWART late of Hotel
Kosciusko.—TAKE NOTICE that MABEL
STEWART has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2825 of 1949 on the grounds of de-
sertion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by 80th November 1949
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from W. D. SCHRADER &
DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.—(n.s.)
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
Legal Notice.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
RE GEORGE LEWIS late of Barcaldine
in the State of Queensland Draper de-
ceased.—NOTlCE is hereby given that
THOMAS MURRAY half-brother of
George Lewis deceased or any person or
persons claiming by through or under
him by derivative title or otherwise are
hereby required to forward to the Local
Deputy Public Curator Rockhampton
proof of their relationship to the said
George Lewis deceased on or before the
80th day of November One thousand nine
hundred and forty-nine and that after the
expiration of the last-mentioned date the
Local Deputy Public Curator of Rock-
hampton will proceed with the distribu-
tion of the assets of the said deceased
among the parties entitled thereto having
regard only to the claims of which he
shall then have had notice. —DATED this
twenty-sixth day of August, 1949. —J. R.
JORDAN, Local Deputy Public Curator,
Rockhampton.
For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole
year, yields 2001 b.; has 20ft. runners
loaded with large red tomatoes. Disease
and drought resistant. Sensation in
America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Kurnell, Sydney,
if you
WERE
THERE
Vbuiwlf.
fcA fwari
'X : VV.
i i<
, r *, a iL.T.I ,
_jy»^
NgM
• •••*••«•••••«
■■•' ■<
w
Write for
particulars
<*TA>
SIRIUS 1 '
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling,
irrigation and drainage,
etc. High-quality in-
struments for immediate
delivery. Complete with
case and tripod,
£2B/3/4.
Horizontal Circle (in
Degrees), £2/14/4 extra.
Also Abney Levels. Pris-
matic Compasses, Op-
tical Square, General
Survey and Drafting
Requirements.
AND SONS
PTY.LTD.
42 HUNTER ST,, SYDNEY. 8W8631.
ip
wmm
iT>‘-
1 YSAGHT’S
. ' i J
.
Technical Data
HOW TO BUILD MODERN
TANKS
WWMr
BWlNftrwjway
' n, <> '
iJNWMWHWIfIUWi ii:«»ww
w.nriTOaw^E
ptsaawarewT*!:--
1 "*
) * -■»■«> w^ftgg* m#****’
wj«|>(»Wwwi ■"»■'• ji *ii|BW^
mv*.
PSJBWW
eacasto@6SK>-'
Kt
When conditions permit, do you plan to erect modem
tanks and tankstands on your farm? Then ask the
SERVICE DEPT, of John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 33
Macquarie Place, Sydney, for data sheets and full infor-
mation on modern tank construction. Part of a compre-
hensive technical advisory service that is available to
farmers and builders using the company's products, it is
gladly placed at your disposal with the compliments of
the Lysaght organisation.
r
There Is a
YSAGHT
steel sheet for every building need
&
J
John Lysaght (Australia} Pfty. Ltd.
Sydney • Melbourne • Brisbane
Adelaide • Fremantle ik-
Lm-aot
for any great distance to alarm
others. Rabbits “leg” more
quickly on a frosty night or in
die summer, when the ground
is hard. Best way to prevent
‘legging” is to go around the
traps at night and early in the
morning—don’t leave the rabbits
in too long. But it can also be
minimised if a trap is pegged so
that a rabbit can pull into the
burrow entrance with it or, if on
a trad:, set alongside a stump,
tussock or tree, if possible. A
rabbit will often give up strug-
gling and settle down alongside
such objects.
Years of experience have
taught me that the rabbit is
no dunce. Graziers have found
that out, too, to their sorrow.
Jersey Improvement.
“Agric”: Queensland Jersey
Cattle Society considers it
premature to introduce a
“superior-sire award” for the
outstanding bull of the State,
but it will adopt the American
“star” bull rating. This means
allotment of marks to a bull
which has 10 advanced register
daughters with a certain butter-
fat Standard, the daughters
being given extra marks for
each 201 b. of butterfat above
standard. For conformation the
daughters must be classified,
marks being awarded.
New Zealand breeders, in
efforts to improve their stock,
are encouraging artificial-
insemination research work at
the Ruakura research station,
Naikato. One of the Dominion’s
leading Jersey breeders, D. J.
Amott, Seddonville, Manawatu,
says that leading breeders in
N.Z. consider the best way to
increase production in the
Dominion generally is to use
artificial insemination in bring-
ing proven bulls into their herds
on selected cows. The Ruakura
research station is trying to get
as many breeders as possible to
nominate cows for a.i, to get
sons of proven bulls whose
blood could then be spread arti-
ficially among many herds.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: Best results will be
obtained from potatoes if sown
with a mixture (by weight) of
one part of sulphate ammonia
and three to five parts of super,
applied at about Hoz, to 2oz.
per yard of row. As an alterna-
tive to the super, and sulphate
equal parts of super, and blood-
and-bone can be used.
"BiUjim”; Boil garbage and
offal to remove excess fat before
offering to pigs. Fed warm with
cooked potatoes and cereals or
meals, offals form the basis of a
well-balanced ration. Used in
this way offal from 25 cattle or
100 sheep should produce 1001 b.
of pig-meat. Garbage is more
variable in its results, but 30 to
60cwt should produce an
equivalent amount of pig-meat.
“8.A.1.”; Almonds are profit-
able, especially now that salted
green almonds are becoming a
popular preserve. Trees should
receive attention to bring them
up to maximum production.
Trimming, cultivating and
manuring will work wonders.
New trees should be planted for
profit, utility and beauty. One
of the loveliest sights imagin-
able is an almond in bloom.
“Quorn”: Having planted
seven-year bean seeds (known
to Queenslanders as Tongan
bean) in the earth itself I
wasted much water in their
maintenance. When the only
garden water is left-over house-
hold water this is a serious
matter. The next plant went
into a large tin with plenty of
drainage holes in it. The bean,
now a large climber, put roots
deep into the hard soil under
the tin, and, although it has had
less water, this vine has grown
very much better than those
planted in the ground itself.
“Rooster”: With proper care
good-quality harness should last
10 years. Collar linings should
be kept clean from dried sweat.
All harness should be cleaned at
least once a year. Warm water
with Castile or soft soap is best
for washing, but scrape off ac-
cumulations and grease first with
a piece of hoop-iron. After
cleansing* place in sun to dry.
Apply neatsfoot oil, to which
some lamp-black has been
added, and work it well in. Dry
again and remove all surplus
off. Keep chain pulleys and
swivels well greased.
“A.M.M.”: Epilepsy in dogs
is usually the aftermath of dis-
temper. When attacks come on
dash cold water over the dog’s
head and allow it plenty of fresh
air. Put a bit of wood between
its teeth to prevent it biting its
tongue. Castor-oil should be
given occasionally at the rate of
a tablespoonful to an adult dog,
together with repeated doses of
bromide of potassium.
“C.S.”: The 42nd Jersey cow
in N.S.W. to produce over
10001 b. of butter in 12 months
is Avon Valley Ladylike, owned
by J. G. Wilson, of Avon
Valley, Gloucester. Her actual
figures in a 365-days’ test was
of milk, with a 5,5
p.c. average test and 921.691 b. of
butterfat, equal to 1124.011 b.
of commercial butter.


Tlhe Ibest aMe
The training of a gun dog should begin as
soon as he starts losing his puppy ways. He
may be able to work intelligently at about one
year, and should be at his best for keenness,
steadiness, intelligence and hard work from
about 3 years until old age makes him too slow.
ẁ
A whisky enters its prime from the
age of five years onwards. Maturity
gives it fine bouquet and mellow flavour. Corio
Special is aged for over five years (more
than double the minimum prescribed by
Commonwealth law).
Corio Special
Whisky at its prime.
C7/16
Cigarette Lighter Service
We stock spare parts for every
known make of Cigarette Lighter.
Send your defective lighter to us.
Repairs returned post free to any
address in the Commonwealth.
ROLLS RAZOR
CO. OF AUST. PXY., LTD.,
8a Castlereagh St., Sydney. BW 3038
tired feet?
Rot. tired feet need
this treatment;—
A Cuticura Soap bath
and Cuticura Oint- .]
meat application. Try I
it.and enjoy real foot V ,
comfort. Cuticura If*
Ointment. 6oap and 1
Talcum Powder-
the famous
trio.
sn
cura
oiwtmfw-
FLY THE PACIFIC
QojmJXom Okdfic dyic
Sleep on Land
at Night!
Fly by Day
mmmm
' l'\
y ..
on wings of the world’s greatest travel system
Fly from Sydney to Vancouver, Canada on Canadian Pacific
“Empress” airliners—via Fiji and Honolulu. Superb service—
delicious meals—4-engine pressurised planes .... You sleep
on land at night—with hotel room and meals at no extra cost
at Fiji and Honolulu 1
Choose the “All Red Route” from Australia to the United Kingdom.
Travel Canadian Pacific all the way—air—train—steamship.
Travel air all the way—Canadian Pacific Air Lines to Vancouver
—connecting air lines to the United Kingdom.
Through fares may be purchased in Australian currency.
Also fly Canadian Pacific Air Lines between Vancouver —
Tokyo—Hong Kong—the shortest and fastest route from
North America to the Far East—comfortable pressur-
ised aircraft—traditional Canadian Pacific service.
★ For further details apply Canadian Pacific
Railway Company, or Union Steam Ship
Co, (General Agents), 2)7 George St.,
Sydney, and 59 William St., Mel-
bourne, or any authorised
Tourist Agency.
1
SSSB3 JBSS
\:JT.
OoMadfaK&MipG
aih^lines
‘THE WINGS OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM*
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited—lncorporated In Canada
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
‘For sale: Lady’s man, tailored
grey pencil-stripe suit.”
—Suburban paper.
Keep the ciss—what’s the suit
like?
4* 4*
Sydney’s homeless, as well as
estate agents, still search for
flats, the agents finding most of
’em.
4* 4* 4*
A Londoner who was fined 255.
foi keeping a horse in his boarding-
house room sadly explained: ‘I was
lonely.’ ”
Alas, how many like this wag
Pick for a room-mate just a
nag !
4* 4* 4*
“Lost, small brown leather purse,
containing gold dress watch and jew.”
—Suburban paper.
Finder please return to Belle-
vue Hill.
Are the miners the new aristoc-
racy, above the law, above the
Government, above everybody?”
—" S . M. Herald.”
Too right—and above ground.
* * *
Lost: Fox-terrier male pup.
Markings, black saddle, long tale.”
—Suburban paper.
Tells endless shaggy - dog
stories.
•J* 4* «J*
“Just a little drop on the eyelids
gives that dewy look, and a dab on
the lips before lipstick keeps them
soft and prevents chaffing.”
—'‘New Idea.”
Especially when she’s going
to hit the hay.
The stars, according to a little
book of forecasts sold with a bar of
soap, are on the side of Prime
Minister Chifley.”
—Sydney "Sunday Sun."
This sort of astrology won't
wash!
ŵ
A Switch in Time.
The use of the cane by a teacher
is a confession of weakness.” — Mel-
bourne University professor.
“Lay on the cane and spoil the
child,”
Our modern Solomons sug-
gest,
“Instead, you must be meek and
mild,
And do what we consider
best.
“And if some little imp should
throw
An inkpot at you every week,
Don't give the darling blow for
blow,
Just grin and turn the other
cheek”
The teacher muttered words
profane,
But, fearing that he might be-
smirch
His reputation by the cane.
He sought the same end with
a birch.
BERT.
A Long-felt Need.
ANNOUNCEMENT EXTRAORDINARY!
The Dudd Business Academy,
Ltd., takes great pleasure in an-
nouncing that special classes
are now forming with the
specific object of coaching
“Labor” candidates for the
forthcoming elections. You
who will proudly bear the off-
red banner of Socialism to the
polls cannot afford to appear
to be ignorant at possibly hostile
meetings, even though you might
have only a hazy idea that the
“single tax” has something to
do with taxing single men, or
that the term “Constitutional”
refers to a walk around the
block to settle your six-course
proletarian dinner. Don’t poke
your neck out as a target for
the polemical shanghai wielded
by some nark. We’ll supply you
with all the answers to even the
stickiest questions.
As an example, what would
your immediate reactions be if,
for instance, a questioner on the
hustings suddenly ripped in
with: “Why did Chifley refuse
for years to increase the rebate
from £lOO to £l5O for life-
assurance and superannuation,
and then suddenly grant it as
soon as the politicians’ superan-
nuation payments under their
pensions scheme was fixed at
£156 p.a.?” Without our tuition
you’d probably flounder around,
finishing up by some feeble re-
mark about its being only a
coincidence, an explanation that
would fool nobody.
For such a question you
would be primed by our experts
with several alternative answers,
to be used according to the
type of audience you have. One
device would be to crane for-
ward, put your hand to your
ear and say “Speak up, my
friend, I can’t hear for the
noise,” repeating this with each
repetition of the question until
the questioner retires from the
uneven contest either from
clergyman’s throat or apoplexy.
Again, as soon as you recognise
that it is verbal dynamite that
is being bowled up to you, you
could point over the questioner’s
head to the back of the hall,
where you will have a stooge
planted and say; “Just a
moment, friend, someone at the
back there had his hand up be-
fore you—what was it you were
asking?” Or by our system of
maze-track side-slip answers
you can skirt the fringe of the
appropriate subject, and within
five minutes of glib stuff finish
up by convincing the questioner
that it was only because of the
introduction of your “Govern-
ment’s” noble and yoomani-
tarian Free-Medicine “scheme”
that the happy workers are
enabled to buy snapper fillets at
lOd. a pound and big Granny
Smith apples at Is. a dozen.
A tutorial staff of un-
exampled experience, including
some who have lost their de-
posits at many elections, has
been gathered together to put
you au fait not only with all the
pitfalls which await the “green”
candidate, but also to supply
up-to-the-minute information
which you will find handy at
meetings.
What if someone were to ask
you what our Foreign Policy
was? You can’t hold the meet-
ing up while you rush off and
ring Dr. Evatt. Even if Bert
could take time off from reading
Press cuttings of speeches prais-
ing his championship of the
“little nations,” or his single-
handed feat in stopping World
War 111, or from preparing an-
other opinion on the Constitu-
tion that will be slung out by the
High Court and the Privy
Council, he wouldn’t know what
it was until the Waterside
Workers’ Federation informed
him.
We have been fortunate in
obtaining at great cost the ser-
vices as special tutor of a high
wharfies’ official, one of the
Communist unholy of unholies,
who ha? just returned from a
conference of Red Asian
leaders. It was from the
Burmese Communist leader,
Dam Yu Tu, that he received
the latest Foreign Policy orders
which Australia is to pursue.
The uncanny accuracy of the
predictions on f.p. you will be
able to give from the hustings
will so impress your constituents
that when, and if, you get into
Parliament they will immediately
demand you be given the post of
Assistant-Minister for External
Affairs, and under “Labor” the
creation of extra portfolios is
of course a settled policy.
Another great feature of our
tutorial classes will be the in-
tensive training to fit candidates
to give humorous answers in the
hope of turning a particularly
awkward question, especially
one which relates to a smelly
scapdal. For this section we
have secured the services of a
brilliant radio comedian whose
ability to get, or to expect to get,
a laugh from quips, jokes and
episodes that have appeared in
the humor magazines 20 years
ago fits him admirably for the
task.
Should someone, for instance,
shoot in the sticky poser: “What
about the Keane Trunks Case
you’ve been hushing-up for
two years?” you would be
supplied by our comedian-tutor
with alternative answers, in the
following vein:(a) “You speak
of trunks and cases in the one
breath—can’t you make up your
mind?” ( b) “Trunks? What
do y’ take me for —a railway-
porter or an elephant?” These,
theoretically at any rate, should
so convulse the audience they’ll
go away and tell all their friends
to mark you No. 1 on the
ballot-paper.
For those candidates who
can’t write, a special set of model
answers have been compiled to
deal with such “stickies” as the
Marx House “raid,” the phony
“Labor”-Commo war, how Jock
landed his job. Cocky Calwell’s
£lO,OOO labial dab, C.5.1.R.0.,
the Red home from home, type-
writer contracts and lots of
others.
Make sure of your £lOOO p.a.,
£B-a-week pension, 32 weeks’
holiday a year, sleep while at
“work,” and all the rest.
Don’t delay! Enrol at once!!
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
White Australia
It is time the question of return-
irg alien war-time refugees to their
homelands was lifted out of the political
tilting yard and treated as a national
problem that calls for a good deal of
sane and unbiased consideration.
Whether we agree with his methods or
not —I’ve not yet read , any suggested
alternative approach —we must agree that
the Minister concerned is bound to up-
hold the White Australia policy until it
is modified or abandoned. Were he to
allow the refugees to remain here the
same daily Press that is excoriating him
now would raise a ,howl about con-
nivance at Asiatic infiltration, riding
roughshod through our W.A.P., or some
such catchcry. The appeal of that Press
is to emotion rather than to reason.
The family ties, regular and irregular,
which the visitors have made are being
played up, but the hard fact is that the
girls who entered into unions with these
aliens should have known their situa-
tion. We cannot jettison a national
policy on their account.
White immigrants arriving in this
country are subject to a thorough screen-
ing as regards character, health and poli-
tical background, with the threat of de-
portation over their heads if their con-
duct here warrants it. No such screening
has been applied to the Asiatic refugees,
and while they may measure up to the
highest standards there is,'in the absence
of any check, no proof of their quality.
We are being asked to, take them com-
pletely on trust.
Further, if they are allowed to remain,
what is to prevent thousands of their
kind from illegal entry through the north?
Once in the country they would only need
to tie up with an Australian woman to
bring the Press sob-sisters to their aid
with subscription-lists for High Court in-
junctions and the like. Apparently
neither pressmen nor well-meaning
clergymen who have made public
statements have the foggiest notion that
they are assisting in the destruction of
one of our most cherished conceptions—
that of a land with no mixed blood, no
minority problem and no depressed liv-
ing standards.
I’m sorry for them —I was sorry for
Mrs. Freer. I’m sorrier still to see a
serious national issue being obscured by
maudlin sentiment and highfalutin
ethical abstractions. — Barwon (N.S.W.).
Building Costs
As long as I can remember builders
have been entitled to 10 per cent, on sub-
contractors’ quotes (B. 17/8/’49). That is
quite’fair, since the or his job-
foreman must help and supervise all sub-
contractors’ work.
Before the war most home builders
were carpenters, who sub-let the relative
portions of the main contract to brick-
layers, plumbers, painters, plasterers,
tilers, electricians, etc. The completed
home was a modest price.
Those sub-contractors were usually
small concerns, with the sub-contractor
working on the job with one or two men.
Usually no building contractor could do
the specialised work as cheaply as the
working sub-contractor, notwithstanding
the 10 per cent.
The high cost of building today is the
result of the 40-hour week, higher wages
(£6 has jumped to £8 145.), sales tax and
payroll tax and shortage of materials.
Before the war merchants would
deliver all materials to the job, but now
it is a case of finding where the material
is and carting it yourself.—Sub-con-
tractor (Q.).
Building specifications still enforced by
many of our city and municipal councils
have long been outmoded by new
materials and processes. Some councils
still insist on stone or brick cavity walls
of 9in. thickness. Within their boun-
daries there is often soft clay soil on which
stone or brick will crack, however re-
inforced the foundations may be, and
where modern impervious materials are
better suited when constructed into walls
of half the specified thickness. The de-
parture from brick no longer means in-
ferior construction and can even be more
expensive.
Certainly it is often more suitable.—
Chusan (S.A.). m
J. M. Baddeley
The elevation of J. M. Baddeley to
Director of State Coal Mines has aroused
only a tithe of the hostile comment that
such a blatantly political appointment
merits. Baddeley, whose active acquaint-
ance with coalmines ceased about 1914,
has been appointed for seven years at an
age (given in Who’s Who in Australia
as 67) when other civil servants have had
two years at least of compulsory retire-
ment.
Apart from the fact that the job should
have gone to any of a dozen mining ex-
perts who know their job from pit-top
to coal-face, there emerges the compli-
cating fact that Baddeley, because of his
attitude during the coal strike, is cordially
detested by the miners. He studiously
avoided his own constituency (Cessnock)
during the strike, but the men there
assured him that he was as good as de-
feated already in the next elections. The
£2500 salary is secure*; a change of Gov-
ernment next year could not remove him
without full compensation for the re-
mainder of the seven-years’ term. —
H. H. (N.S.W.).
Beer
The price of beer is up again in Mel-
bourne, and some very interesting figures
have been brought to light. For instance,
the man who spends 11s. a week on beer
contributes (if'that’s the word) 4s. sd. in
taxation, Is. lid. to the brewery, 4s. sd.
to the hotelkeeper and 3d. to the licensing
fund.
At the new prices, drinkers will pay
over the counter about £29 14s. a hogs-
head. Out of that, the publican gets
£ll 18s. 6d. to pay, as he puts it, rent,
labor, “costs” and profit. The Govern-
ment will take £ll 18s. 4d., the licensing
fuad 13s. Bd. and the brewery £5 3s. 6d.
What I quarrel with is that vague item
“costs” being part of Bung’s £ll 18s. 6d.
Anyone who has had anything to do with
the financing of pub purchases knows
that far too much is demanded for the
“ingoing,” which, ultimately of course,
the customers have to pay. Often, for
quite an ordinary hotel £5OOO has to be
paid for a short lease (three years or
so) as well as a stiff rent. Is it any
wonder that Bung takes £ll 18s. 6d. out
of the £29 145., and that furniture is
shabby and service almost negligible?
In spite of all that, the demand for
all types of pubs is keen, and everyone
connected with the trade seems to do
well enough out of it.
There is, of course, one obvious
remedy, but one that the State Govern-
ment and Licensing Court will not take ;
grant more licences. Then we would
have competition, and people who are
now prevented by lack of finance, though
otherwise well qualified, could open
hotels. — Ceg (Vic.),
Commonwealth Employment Service
“Spike’s” complaint against the Com-
monwealth Employment Service (B.
3/8/’49), and the “Acting Regional
Director’s” unqualified praise of it (B.
17/8/’49), both seem to be exaggerated.
My wife and I had dealings with the
C.E.S. in every State. Our experiences
boil down to this: If you are in a strange
place, and want a. job in the higher-
appointments group, go to the C.E.S. If
you want seasonal, casual or domestic
work, you’ll do better by answering ads.
in the daily papers. — Taswegian (Tas.)
Interest Rates
Anyone who advocates dearer money
is asking for brickbats, but the idea is
not without merit.
Higher interest rates would have a
tendency to check rising costs of broad
acres and house properties. The fact that
a borrower has to pay more for money
inclines him to reduce his expenditure,
with a consequent check on inflation.
From another angle an upward trend
in the earning power of money would
enable insurance companies and kindred
institutions to make more lucrative bonus
payments, thus encouraging saving.
People are gradually realising that they
cannot make their assets earn sufficient
to make any headway or provide a com-
petence for their old age. The result
of that social outlook will be more and
more old-age pensioners or wards of the
State.
A laborer is worthy of his hire, and so
is money.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
The Small Farmer
I read “No Sirrah’s” crack (B.
17/8/’49) about men-on-the-land who
are not putting everything they have into
their farms and not stocking the land to
full capacity.
As a fruit-cocky in the Mildura dis-
trict it just doesn’t pay me to have the
block in full-bearing. The price of
manure, irrigation, rates and taxes have
just about doubled; labor costs twice
as much for half the work. I’m no
bloated capitalist, and to keep the budget
balanced I have to work about 60 hours
a week, including Saturday and Sunday,
or else employ labor that isn’t worth
having. So it pays me to let a few acres
out of 40 lie fallow for a few years
until things improve.— Yes Sirrah (Vic.).
Key Money
The N. S. Wales State Government, in
its efforts to ensure that the capitalists,
great and small, shall pay for their sins,
has bent over backwards to fill up all
the gaps in .its discriminatory Landlord
and Tenant legislation, with several in-
teresting results.
By virtue *of the amended Section 36
of the Landlord and Tenant Act, 1949,
persons entering into any transaction
which involves disposing of a lease of
any premises (sale of a business and trans-
fer of the lease, sale of a residential
and transfer of lease, etc.) are required
to submit an application to the Rent
Controller for his consent to the trans-
action. The object is to prevent exten-
sive “key money” being cloaked under
the heading of “goodwill”—admittedly a
nasty business made worse by the fact
that in a huge percentage of the trans-
actions tenants were raking in small
fortunes by trading in the right of occu-
pancy and thumbing their noses at the
impotent owners.
As in most things this Government
does, however, the drafters of the legisla-
tion have created an alarming situation
for anyone who wishes to dispose of his
business and transfer his lease —no matter
how small or how large the business.
Not only has the Government power to
control and deal with irregularities
associated with the sale of a business,
but it can also control such things as
goodwill, which have previously been
free of control.
The Rent Controller is called upon to
assess goodwill in any class of business
irrespective of its size or type. If Lord
Nuffield were to decide to buy out
G.M.-H. and lease the premises of that
organisation, the Rent Controller would
have to assess the amount of goodwill
involved and give his consent or other-
wise to the transaction.
The futility of this control has been
plainly and quickly demonstrated. So
far the general answer to applications is
“No,” which, of course, means another
blackmarket.— Jindivick (N.S.W.).
“A Little Knowledge”
I doubt if “And How’s” dream of creat-
ing culture in the young by employing
capable writers, artists and musicians in
the schools will ever materialise (B.
25/5/’49). There seems to have arisen
in this young country a force or power
deliberately directed against such an ideal.
After all, the culture of a populace can-
not rise above the standards of its legis-
lative chambers, and censorships and
bureaucratic cdntrols as imposed today
are probably the greatest obstacles to
mass-culture in its broadcast sense ever
devised.
A cultured race is a thoughtful race,
and a thoughtful race demands much of
its guardians or custodians. Supposing
“And How’s” suggestion for education
had been put into practice 50 years ago,
how many of our contemporary Parlia-
mentarians would have received the vote
of people intellectually advanced beyond
the state of morons?
National culture, like chivalry, is as
dead as the dodo or, more correctly to
this race and generation, has never been
born. In this age of the machines, in-
dustrial and political, automatons are
more desirable than artisans. Who’ll
argue that curricula of free or State edu-
cation aren’t designed to that end? As
for daily Press and radio, they have be-
come vehicles of vulgarity. And what
has the modern church, clinging to
ancient rituals, done to elevate the public
mind? As “And How” truly says, culture
is not attained by miracles ; it is achieved
by example, sweat and patience, and by
encouraging the common mind and spirit
(the younger the better) to detect the
real from the sham, the substance from
the shadow in all things. Bitter though
the pill may be, it is said that the mean
level of adult education in Australia is
that of the average child of 15.
In brief, culture firstly is appreciation
and secondly comprehension, but
machine- or party-politics would be no
sinecure in a land whose educational
system hadn’t been reduced to a skeleton.
That is probably why it is restricted, in
fact, to the three rs—reading, writing and
radio. —P. O. MacCabe (N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 35
Across.
I—You need this journal for a
medical report on the gunman’s
victim. (8)
s—The5 —The birds put it among the seats
in church. (6)
9—Such gnomes bungle nine. (10)
10—Tire fellow is to exist as the god-
dess of youth. (4)
12— Undiluted trim. (4)
13— Aristocrat returns the weight to
the abyss. (10)
14 — Victory. (3)
15 — Chest which contains the thunder-
god’s chopper. (6)
16 — Guillotines what ambitious under-
lings will one day obey. (7)
20 — Pinched the steam-yacht first
without missing a heartbeat. (7)
21 — Bingo. (6)
23 — Rises at dawn every day. (3)
24 The woman’s graduate catalogues
medical-men. (10)
26 —Cube spoilt in the Philippines. (4)
28 — Apprentice journalist and a
Caribbean feature and a third
power, by the sound of it. (4)
29 — The “Sydney Morning Herald”
gains speed, and takes a lacing.
(6, 4)
(cryptic type.)
(,Solution in next issue.)
30 — Swamp-grasses’ border in the
steamer. (6)
31 — Cook companion thus, with one
that comes ashore. (8)
Down.
1— Prohibit speed at sea with eastern
money. (8)
2 The book collection is about to
show a conservative born in
early October, when in the
balance. (9)
3 Ely was named because of their
numbers in the river. (4)
4 Idriess and Hay from Asia
Minor. (6)
6 I have a nice change tor
Boadicea’s people. (5)
7 Demonstrated that the dame got
spliced. (6) , . ..
8 — Associations that keep their dis-
tance. (7) ,
11 —Bradman joins the club that is of
elevated importance in Victoria.
(7)
13— Confuse Hollywood’s pioneer
cowboy way back in the year
1009. (3)
14 — Artist adds water to the power
unit. (7)
17 — Observed the record eagle with
coppers. (9)
18— Lager is obtainable in North
Africa. (7)
19—Legal response about dairy
produce. (8)
21 —Bohemian religious reformer. (3)
* 22—Startles pop aboard ship. (6)
23 —Potential lice turn up to quit
strong beer. (6)
25 —Furious artist to make a call at
bridge. (5)
27 —One bird among many. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 34.


*
mmtm
aHMBi
?.■ ■
ii
■
: r
&
/
*
The A.W.A. monpgram on any instrument is a mark of
quality and scientific craftsmanship. It is the symbol of the
Radio Age, representing the knowledge gained from research
and engineering over more than 35 years.
Behind all A.W.A. products and services are the A.W.A.
laboratories, which have advanced radio in the home, on the
highways, at sea, and in the air. As one of Australia’s key
industrial organisations, A.W.A. recognises the value of
scientific research and its important role in peace and security.
Investigations now in progress include the use of frequency
modulation for telephone communication with moving
vehicles, as well as for broadcasting, development of special
transmitters and receivers to improve radio-telephone services
between Australia and overseas countries, television and
work on a number of new radio aids for navigation.
Over 1000 ships of the Merchant Navy are equipped with
A.W.A. wireless apparatus.
The progress made by commercial aviation and the enormous
mileages covered are due in a large measure to the develop-
ment of wireless and its application to aerial navigation and
communication. >
A.W.A. maintains in a serviceable condition all radio equip-
ment in Australian commercial aircraft and overseas aircraft
operating to Australia. Over 150 aircraft for 20 different
companies are serviced by A.W.A. This has necessitated the
establishment of radio-servicing depots at all principal
aerodromes.
BROADCASTING TRANSMITTING STATIONS
WIRELESS TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE STATIONS
AERONAUTICAL RADIO EQUIPMENT
MARINE WIRELESS
RADIOLA BROADCAST RECEIVERS
SOUND AMPLIFYING SYSTEMS
Ship’s Wireless Station
mm
60,000-watt Broadcast Transmitter
WBmmmmxm. m «'
iHS
i i
Mtg
.
M
I -
ii
■
;■■ ■
■
H
■
Radiola Assembly at Works
.
m
. ■
I
H
ram
,
■
m
mm
sSSSSsm ■
Studio Control Apparatus
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Australasia) LTD.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Also at WELLINGTON, N.Z., and AUSTRALIA HOUSE, LONDON
