

GREAT WESTER
A PRODUCT OF THE
t S s*' h SaßraS® ... ,: \ ? ,u * _ k
2®
y a || c C OE CEDDCIT
HOUSE OE SEPPELT
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” VoL 70™~No. 3626
Wednesday, August 10, 1949
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney. N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
* ... _ l ; ...
Seppelts
CROMWELL’S STATUE NEAR THE
HOUSE OF COMMONS
HTHIS imposing statue of the Lord
_ Protector of England, sculptured by
Sir William Hamo Thornycroft (1850-
1925), stands by Westminster Hall in the
precincts of the House of Commons, and
was erected in 1899.
Oliver Cromwell was born in 1599 at
Huntingdon, related to Thomas Crom-
well, minister of Henry VIII. After com-
pleting his education at Huntingdon
Grammar School, Sussex College, Cam-
bridge, and Lincoln’s Inn, where he
studied law, he married the daughter of
Sir John Bourchier, by whom he had six
children. At the age of twenty-nine, a
young man of deeply religious convic-
tions, he sat for Huntingdon in the
memorable Third Parliament of Charles
I. Cromwell, at that time, was seriously
thinking of emigrating to New England.
He went as far as booking a passage for
himself and family, but the ship by which
he was to have sailed was detained at the
last moment by proclamation. By this
chance the whole course of English his-
tory was changed, for Cromwell was
returned to Parliament and represented
Cambridge during the “Short” and
“Long” Parliaments of 1639-40.
At the outbreak of civil war he joined
the Parliamentarians as a captain and
gained distinction at Edgehill. After this
battle he raised a troop of “godly men”
—chiefly yeomen in his own county—
whom he trained with harsh Puritan zeal
and strict discipline. These Ironsides
proved so efficient that the whole Army
was remodelled on the same lines. After
his decisive victories at Marston Moor
and Naseby, Cromwell emerged as the
supreme leader on the side of Parlia-
ment. After seizing King Charles I at
Holmby House, Cromwell controlled the
destinies of the country over which he
ruled with military despotism. Crom-
well dissolved Parliament in 1653 and
was formally installed as Protector of the
Commonwealth of England, Scotland
and Ireland in 1654. As supreme ruler
he introduced many reforms, though his
repressive measures in Ireland were the
subject of much controversy. Crom-
well’s last years were haunted by the fear
of assassination, for his strict rule spread
wide discontent.


r*
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 149
AOE
The Red Page
MORE ABOUT GO EBBELS.
Curt Riess’s Joseph Goebbels (Hollis
and Carter), based on a search of the
mass of papers Goebbels left behind him
as well as The Goebbels Diaries lately
edited by Louis Lochner, and on inter-
views with the Propaganda Minister’s
relatives, colleagues and mistresses, has
something of the value of an original
historical document.
Though Goebbels is the “hero,” the
book’s most dramatic scene is not in the
Minister’s life, or his death, but in the
last glimpse of Hitler, that man of so
many words who talked himself and his
country into so much trouble, at last star-
ing silent in the face of his nemesis.
Hitler has been married to Eva Braun at
that fantastic “farewell reception” when
nobody knew what to say and the coqple
have retired to Eva Braun’s room in the
shelter at the Reich Chancellery:
Hours passed. Eerie hours. What was
Hitler doing now? Was he still talking
about German honor, Germany’s future?
Was he still ..cursing the Jews? Or was he
perhaps wondering about his mistakes?
Goebbels waited. Everyone in the shelter
waited... .Ten hours and more had passed
since Hitler had retired. And suddenly he
reappeared. It was two o’clock in the
afternoon. He wanted to have his lunch.
After his meal he emerged again, accom-
panied by his wife. He walked through
the shelter, shook hands, his eyes fixed on
the others in a rigid stare, without saying
a word, and disappeared. Then a shot
rang out. Hermann and Guensche rushed
into Eva Braun’s living-room. She was
lying on the couch, dead from poison.
Adolf Hitler had crumpled on the floor.
His head was a bloody mess. He had
shot himself through the mouth.
If Curt Riess had followed The
Goebbels Dianes more closely—in those
impassioned pages describing the bomb-
ing of Berlin —he might have been able
to make the Doctor’s suicide equal
Hitler’s in emotional intensity; but
Goebbels somehow does not come fully
to life in this biography, and, at the end,
it is in the terrible pathos of the poisoning
of his six children that the interest lies,
and in the mystery of why Magda
Goebbels should have consented to so
dreadful and so needless a massacre.
It is typical of the value of this book
that Magda’s complicity should seem
mysterious. Simply by setting down the
facts of her life Curt Riess gives a picture
of a woman who, one feels, would be
chiefly concerned at the end to save her-
self and her children. He shows her, at
!9, marrying a wealthy industrialist of 40
for his money. When, after she had
borne him two children, he discovered
that she was having an affair with a young
student, her husband threatened to
divorce her without a penny. She black-
mailed him with a threat of exposing his
evasions of income-tax and extracted a
handsome settlement from him.
After she married Goebbels she was
unfaithful to him —with more than one
lover—and he was many times unfaithful
to her. They remained together only be-
cause, “raving like a maniac,” Hitler ex-
pressly forbade them to separate. To a
friend she had said, “I suppose I can be
happy with any man.” And yet she
decided to stay with Goebbels to the death
and to be, one supposes, as unhappy as
any woman ever has been on the earth:
“When I put my children to bed and
think that in a few weeks they may no
longer be alive, I could go crazy with grief.”
But if the setting-down of these facts,
creating a psychological mystery, shows
the value of the book, it is also an indica-
tion of its shortcomings. In February,
1945, Magda had asked Hitler’s physician
for poison, and, as the facts are recorded,
it is she who at that stage insisted on the
destruction of the children; Goebbels
had suggested that she take them to some
place in Western Germany where they
would fall into the hands of the British
or Americans. Then, in April, right at
the finish, promising to return and die
with her husband, Magda pleaded with
Goebbels for permission to take the
children to a neutral country; and
Goebbels this time refused with “an un-
equivocal ‘No! ’”
These changes of plans, these fluctua-
tions of feeling are humanly possible ;
so, too, is the development, under terrible
stress, of Magda’s determination to die
with her children at her husband’s side ;
or at Hitler’s side ; or in the centre of the
Nazi legend. But in a biography proper
—even in a biography of the husband —
one would learn much more of the details
of that development, either by way of
analysis or, preferably, by a greater array
of facts that can speak for themselves —
letters, diaries, remembered conversa-
tions.
As far as Goebbels himself is concerned
one could hardly complain of a shortage
of facts —there are 441 pages of them.
But sometimes, as when Goebbels is
holidaying in Venice in 1942 and is roam-
ing the Grand Canal in a gondola with
three actresses, the facts are insufficiently
documented. The Propaganda Minister
is said to have been in a fury because the
ladies, having drunk themselves tipsy,
took off their clothes and dived overboard
for a swim. But who told Curt Riess this
story, so hostile in tone towards
Goebbels? And what do these facts
signify—bad temper on Goebbels’s part;
or a moment of dignity; or merely hos-
tility in Mr. Riess’s informant?
Then, too, there are moments when,
submitting to an author’s temptation to
overpraise his hero, even so vulgar and
venomous a hero as Goebbels, Mr. Riess
takes Goebbels too much at his own
valuation.; or at the valuation of fol-
lowers who retained their admiration.
There is, for example, the account of
Goebbels’s speech at the Sportpalast after
Stalingrad when “a single speech could
either save the situation or ruin it,” and
when Goebbels worked his audience into
“a state of delirium.” Mr. Riess forgets
that he has previously recorded that this
audience was hardly more than a claque:
“All tickets had been carefully distri-
buted by the Nazi party offices and the
Propaganda Ministry. It would have
been imprudent to take unnecessary risks
and have but lukewarm sympathisers in
the audience.” One recalls at such
moments that Mr. Riess is a journalist;
and all journalists in their natural
enthusiasm for the written and the spoken
word are apt to forget the truth once
uttered in massive and final simplicity by
Montgomery : “Wars are won by victories
in battle.”
But when Joseph Goebbels has been
described as “journalistic” enough has
been said about its failings as a bio-
graphy and it is time to praise it as a
work of journalism: a patient and far-
ranging assemblage of facts, many of
which will be new to most readers and
all of which will be useful to the bio-
graphers who will come later.
Mr. Riess records that Goebbels once
wrote a play in verse, “The Wanderer,”
on the life of Jesus Christ; that in the
early days of Nazism he once proposed
“that the petty-bourgeois Adolf Hitler be
excluded” ; that he caused an anti-Jewish
uproar at the filming of All Quiet on the
Western Front which led to the film’s
being banned, and later, as the result of
a hoax, published with high praise a story
of Remarque’s in Der Angriff; that
Hitler threatened to commit suicide if the
Nazi party broke up in 1932 —an offer
which, if accepted, would have saved the
world a lot of bother; that Hindenburg
“boasted to have read no more than six
books in his life” ; that Goebbels wore
glasses for reading when alone, but would
not wear them in front of even his most
intimate associates; that once, in a
moment of sanity, when he was trying to
persuade the Germans that, as Mr. Riess
puts it, “the Axis and its satellites —
in all about 200,000,000 people—were
threatened by approximately 15,000,000
people, who were widely scattered over
the globe, with no State, no army, no
fleet and no air-force of their own,”
Goebbels admitted at his morning con-
ference, “There is, of course, no unified
world Jewry—the way we present it —
which will cling together in life and
death.”
And then Mr. Riess says that Goebbels,
when he was particularly enraged with
anyone, used to call him a “dwarf” ;
that he wanted to go to Russia to make
a separate peace with Stalin ; that Hitler
was fascinated by the film of the trial of
the Army plotters who had tried to assas-
sinate him, demanding to see over and
over again the forty miles of celluloid
that told the story; that, after the bomb
plot, Goebbels began to feel himself
superior to Hitler, who had become “an
old man who was trembling all over ;
one of his legs was dragging and his voice
sounded broken and hoarse” ; that when
all the beauty-specialists were drafted for
war work Goebbels’s secretaries had to
manicure his nails every day; that
Goebbels was “tremendously upset”
when, about the time the Nazis were
planning their Ardennes offensive, one of
his assistants knocked a photograph of
Hitler from his desk and a splinter of the
broken glass pierced the Fllhrer’s left
eye; that Goebbels saw a talkie every
day—“his attaches in Stockholm, Beme
and Lisbon were instructed to borrow
new American films, to have reprints
made or, if necessary, to steal them” —
and that even in the last months he would
still “laugh uproariously” over the adven-
tures of Donald Duck; and that it was
Goebbels who wanted Hitler to put into
operation the policy, “For every civilian
killed in a future air-attack on a German
city we shall cut the throats of an equal
number of British and American war
prisoners.”
Linking these random facts together
there is, of course, the familiar story of
the general European tragedy; and the
story of Goebbels’s rise to power and his
relations with his colleagues ; and, though
without any memorable picture of the
personalities involved, the story of his
private life with Magda and his proces-
sion of mistresses.
Gilt.
Much as these columns have inveighed
lately against Australian authors’ going-
down mines, it must b£ admitted, after
a casual look through the Mitchell
Library’s authorities, that there is room
for a comprehensive survey of West
Australia’s prospectors, their trails and
trials; but Glint of Gold, by Malcolm
Uren, F.R.G.S. (Robertson and Mullens),
is hardly it.
It is 60 years since the rushes to the
Kimberleys and Southern Cross, yet Mr.
Uren writes about them as though they
were still news; and although he covers
the whole of West Australian gold-pros-
pecting, his big scenes, “McCann’s Bogus
Rush,” “The Cemetery Rush,” “Siberia
Track,” “A Hole Full of Gold,” etc., are
little improvement on John Marshall’s
Battling for Gold, 1905, or John Reside’s
casual Golden Days of the late 1920’5.
Mr. Uren almost equals our master of
journalese, the author of Try Anything
Once, at the art of saying everything
twice. For instance, the wheelbarrowmen
are treated two or three times in different
parts of the book (there is a good story
of how the iron tyre of the wheel would
get hot, expand, fall off, and still be too
hot for the cursing wheelbarrowman to
touch); and such haphazard organisa-
tion, proper enough to old prospectors
writing their memoirs, makes hard reading
in historians. If this author had told his
story better, keeping everything in its
place, we should not find him complain-
ing that “no one volume would be suffi-
cient to cover the ample history of the
goldfields.”
Mr. Uren says he intends “to tell you
of the men who found the gold and their
worth as individuals,” and probably the
best parts of the book come from the
memory of the old prospector and
mining manager, C. M. (“Diorite”) Harris,
whose help the author acknowledges
freely. But in dealing with the “men and
their worth,” Mr. Uren is himself too
much like the average prospector who
finds gold but cannot be bothered work-
ing the nfine. The later lives of his pros-
pectors he leaves to a few vague generali-
ties. Paddy Hannan found surface gold
where later Kalgoorlie’s millions were un-
covered. Mr. Uren should say who Paddy
Hannan was and what happened to him.
In J. Reside’s book there is a story of
Hannan’s being brought back to Kal-
goorlie for a banquet in 1897 ; and there
Hannan said:
“I arrived in the Colony in March, 1889,
and until 1894, when I left Kalgoorlie, I
did not see the sea. Consequently I decided
to have a holiday.”
In the magazine “Golden West” for
1925-26 there was a paragraph saying that
Hannan, discoverer of Kalgoorlie, was
dead in Victoria aged 82. In a later issue
of the magazine there was a photograph
of Paddy Hannan standing with another
old prospector, Dick Greaves; Hannan,
a short, little man wearing an Anthony
Eden hat and dressed in clerical black,
very neat. Maybe there is more writing
about him somewhere, but that is all that
a quick search turned up; that and an
assertion that the West Australian Gov-
ernment had granted him a £2OO annuity
(Mr. Uren, who mentions this one point,
says it was a £lOO annuity).
Hannan was on gold, but he had not
seen the sea for five years; “conse-
quently” he took a holiday. Did he take
any gold with him? How much? When
he left the place which still carries his
name like a banner, did he have no further
financial claim on it? How did he spend
the rest of his life? Instead of a lot of
windy generalities about prospectors who
made a few thousand quid, spent it in
sprees on the coast, came back for more,
and vanished, wouldn’t it have been better
for Mr. Uren to do a little research, find
out exactly what happened to a set of the
better-known prospectors, and make a
separate chapter of it?
All of which must seem rank ingrati-
tude for what is, after all, the most com-
plete story yet published of the West
Australian prospectors’ part in the rushes
to Kimberley, Pilbara, Nullagine, Yil-
garn. Golden Valley, Murchison, Cue,
Ravensthorpe, Menzies, Mount Luck, etc.,
with an addendum of “Diorite’s” journey
by car and camel to inspect “Braeside,”
near Broome, and his further trip by
lugger to look at Yampi, and their find-
ing the uncharted and hidden harbor,
Talbot Bay.
And —stop us if you’ve heard this one
-“Paddy the Flat” who kept the store in
the “Dead Finish” camp in the Kimber-
leys and charged a miner with one cheese,
£ 1 /11111 /-, by mistake—unable to write,
he has made a round black mark instead
of a round black mark with a square hole
in it which would have designated a
grindstone; and Russian Jack, who put
the swags of two exhausted perishers on
his wheelbarrow, and later piled on a
perisher near to perishing, and went on;
and strips of hide that made extra soles
for boots in stony country; and the
square monument of red rock in the
Alfred and Maria Range which com-
memorates Gilles McPherson, who sur-
vived two perishes in the waterless west,
and died in the snow of the Klondyke
rush; and “Diorite’s” 7s. 6d. bath in
water scented from having previously
been bathed-in by the barmaid at the
Palace Hotel, Coolgardie; and Andrew
Cassy “one of the few goldfields-born
boys—there may be 1 others, but ‘Diorite’
cannot name them —who became a mine-
owner, made a fortune and kept it, and
still lives in the town where he was born” ;
and the woman who drove up to the
hotel at Sandstone in a rickety spring-
cart with her three children and a large
bundle wrapped in a rug, containing her
dead husband ; and how “Diorite” was
held-up and robbed on his honeymoon
in 1900 ; and how Varishetti was freed
by a diver after nine days in a flooded
mine; how “Diorite” found two men
living on opposite sides of Koolan Island
because of an argument they "had had
about bodyline bowling; and how
“Diorite” during the war opened an old
part of Great Boulder mine: “ during
the war years 10 per cent, of the gold out-
put of the mine was quarried and loaded
into trucks by only four men. The yield
for the period was' over £300,000-worth
of gold.”
There is a map showing the tracks of
prospectors, a dated list of “explorers,
surveyors, pastoralists and prospectors
who blazed the trails to West Australian
goldfields” from 1854 to 1898 ; there are
photographs of early fields, there is a
general index which lists only places and
people, and an index of more than 200
prospectors mentioned in the book.
Reviewed Briefly.
Contract Bridge for Everyone Ely
Culbertson (Faber). A “brief instruction
for those who want to improve their
bridge skill and those who want to learn
bridge.” Mr. Culbertson is, of course,
trumps.
* * * *
Coleridge as Critic: Herbert Read
(Faber). The title is misleading, insofar
as it might suggest that Mr. Read is
going to talk about the books Coleridge
talks about in Biographia Literaria.
Mr. Read is trying to show “the rele-
vance of the philosophy to the criticism,”
and he is more concerned with philos-
ophical than with literary questions —
“The ‘genetic monism’ of a single, pro-
gressive differentiation and intensifica-
tion of life is contrasted with the
pluralism of ‘radically’ different realities
implicit in the idea of somatic, psychic
and spiritual life forces.”
* * * *
News from the Hamlet: Lewis Wil-
shire (Dent). Story of an English
village struggling against bureaucracy—
the villagers are threatened with eviction
so that the place can be rebuilt to
Government plan. A lively and timely
story ; and the villagers, fighting against
the “bleeden cheek” of the authorities,
are pleasantly-drawn.
❖ * j
A Short History of Jewish Art: Helen
Rosenau (James Clarke and Co., Lfil.,
London ; Angus and Robertson). Except
for a colored frontispiece the illustra-
tions—which should be the backbone of
any art book —are meagrely done in
black-and-white; and far too many are
pictures of works of craft —shrines, syna-
gogues, ornamental carvings—rather than
works of art. There is no discrimina-
tion between the robust works of an
Epstein and the feeble works of a
Modigliani; and there is no chapter on
a subject which, if not strictly relevant,
should surely have been tempting —the
Jewish contribution to the world’s
literature. The book reads like a brief
summary from an encyclopaedia. -
* * * *
Kerin the Watcher: Dorothy Severn
(Dent). Story about a boy who lived
and had adventures in England in 260 b.c.
—the year, as it happens, when the
present reviewer was born. Miss Severn
has reconstructed it all pretty well,
though she is wrong when she says it was
Kefin who bit off the end of Malims
nose; it was Colin who did that, and he
bit off both of Malim’s noses. Other-
wise there are no complaints ; and Miss
Severn has also in her favor that she is
descended from the Joseph SeveriKwho
was a friend of Keats.


o
z
Ui
h-
CL
>
Q
<
Z
z
h-
Z>
CL
r~
Premier 61 H 6 forms a compact unit, giving all
the advantages of heat storage cooking together
with plentiful supply of hot water. Rustproofed
solid panelled fire doors, boiler fire consumes
household rubbish, thus saving time and energy.
The World-famous
name for heat storage cookers and Water
Heaters for which ANTHONY HORDERNS’
is the sole agent in New South Wales!
The Bonny Bridge “Hydresse” Independent
Water Heating Unit burns all combustible
fuel, holds 45-60 gallons of water. Water
raised 100 deg. per hour. Both economical
and durable, ideal for use in your home!
w
LEFT
The “New Welstood” In-
sulated Cooker gives instant
cooking service and constant
hot water for bathroom,
kitchen. Caters for a maxi-
mum of 6 persons.
RIGHT
The Esse Major Cooker is a
heavy-duty cooker. It is
ideal for use by hotels,
restaurants, schools, institu-
tions and by general caterers.
Hill
U II i
hi
n , nngn
liiiiiihiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiniiiimiil
FURTHER INFORMATION RING M 2401 OR WRITE BOX 2712 C. G.P.O. ESSE DEPT.. LOWER GROUND. PITT ST.


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3626
Wednesday, August 10, 1949
THE CAVEDWELLER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
A "TOTTERING INDUSTRY."
ŵ
capacity of existing mines and national
requirements:
Allowing for a 3 per cent, loss through
strikes and 5 per cent, through absenteeism,
a conservative estimate of the capacity of
N.S.W. underground workings is 12J mil-
lion tons annually, working on one shift
daily. [ln no one year, even during the war,
have the miners allowed this output to be
obtained.]
This output could be doubled by the
introduction of a second shift. [A second
shift is also tabooed by the Miners’
Federation.]
Mechanisation in pillar workirig would
substantially increase productive capacity,
but is prohibited at present by the N.S.W.
Minister for Mines.
Miners are opposed to early and
mechanical extraction of pillars.
A strong controlling authority should be
appointed with powers, among others, to
take measures for the prevention of these
practices to save irreparable losses of valu-
able fuel which must otherwise occur.
On the authority of Mr. R. P. Jack, the
expert member of the Joint Coal Board,
there are 240,000,000 tons of pillar coal
available, 158,500,000 of it in the
Cessnock area, and some of it standing
up to 32ft. high. And Australia is being
systematically and malignantly starved
for coal!
The Davidson report castigated the
contract system as obsolete and produc-
tive of constant petty stoppages, especi-
ally over delays in supplying skips to
miners at the face. It offered mechanisa-
tion and a daily-wage system as the
answer. The “darg,” limitation of output
to minimum exertion, is also an iniquity,
and as applied to the slowing-down of
mechanical equipment is intolerable.
Discipline is "almost completely absent,”
and is “a contributing factor to an exces-
sive accident rate.” In its major fields the
coal industry is “tottering”—is being
brought down by antagonism in many
workers towards the authority of colliery-
owners or Governments alike, by ineffi-
cient and archaic methods of coal-getting,
inflated costs of production, and a general
feeling of frustration. The causes—
A spirit of disorder stimulated by politi-
cal agitators, a small but increasing number
of whom are Communists.
Lack of cohesion among owners, preclud-
ing both a united front to attack and the
pursuit of a joint aggressive policy.
Propaganda by the agitators of dis-
content based on exaggerated suggestions
that miners are subject to all kinds of
diseases and dangers to a much greater
degree than persons in other occupations,
and claims that alleged abuses will be
eliminated by nationalisation of the mines
as a first step towards socialisation and
communal ownership of means of produc-
tion.
The industry can hardly be anything
but inefficient when the capital invested
in its equipment, now due to be greatly
increased for modernisation of the mines,
is allowed to work for “a productive
period of actually not more than 30 hours
a week for a total of less than 36 weeks
of working days in a year.” The pro-
hibition against extraction of pillar coal
by mechanical loaders —and 60 to 70
per cent, of the coal is left in pillars—
“defies the opinion of every mining
engineer of any note in America, Great
Britain or Australia.” Coalmining in this
country is being killed by politics, and
“is overweighted with committees, in-
dustrial boards and authorities, industrial
courts. Government regulations and
obscure customs and practices,” the origin
of the last-named often quite forgotten.
These are the highlights of Mr. Justice
Davidson’s indictment of the evils which
have brought the industry to the verge
of disaster. Though colliery-owners may
humanly have lost heart, they have to
bear their share of responsibility for the
drift —and some of the abuses—in the
past. Baneful influences of its own past
oppress the industry, but in the present
grim emergency it is the corroding in-
fluences of today that must be van-
quished. Without more coal and cheaper
coal Australia cannot face international
competition in the post-war trading
world, and our development under what-
ever political brand of government will
be impossible.
The public is becoming so inured under
Chifleyism to a declining standard of liv-
ing that political cheer-leaders are pre-
paring the electors to rejoice over an end
to the strike which would send the miners
back to the old system of winning just
enough coal to keep the country on short
commons from day to day. If the Chifley
Government is content with such a “settle-
ment” it will have given Australia over
to those whom its Ministers have,
in an enforced change of front, been
calling “the dingoes.”
Calwell and the Death-adder.
Army Minister Chambers’s belated de-
nunciation of attempted Communist
treachery in the Australian forces during
the war might recall to Mr. Pollard,
Mr. Chifley’s Minister for Com-
merce and Agriculture, a little speech
which he made when the campaign
against enlistment in the A.I.F, was at
its height, and when the Communists were
yelling that our overseas forces must be
brought home because they might be
used to attack Russia. Mr, Pollard was
reported with great glee by the Com-
munist Press in these words, without
evoking any noticeable comment from
Mr. Pollard himself;
Communists are growing in strength
because they appeal to the imagination of
the young... .Much has been said of the
Red menace of Communism. I have taken
a lifelong interest in politics. I have
studied the development of Communism
and other “isms” I do not intend to
tear my hair because a Communist is
discovered here and there.
That was published in the “Tribune” on
the day that paper was banned. May 24,
1940, and three weeks after Mr. Beasley
had treated Parliament to the statement
that “the Communist party now controls
the policy and domestic affairs of the
Labor party in N. S. Wales.” When Lang
and Beasley refused to remain in a party
so controlled, the rest of its members
joined in reviling them. Mr. Abner
McAlpine, now president of the Federal
A.L.P. and therefore Mr. Chambers’s
organisational master, declared that “Mr.
Beasley must be treated like any other
renegade.” Mr. Makin, now Mr. Chifley’s
Ambassador in Washington, shouted at
him that “Judas at least hanged himself.”
Interjections from Messrs. Pollard
and Lazzarini led Mr. Beasley to say
that he could not understand why they
“should indulge in a barrage of interjec-
tions which could only be regarded as
evidence that they either approve of the
Communist control of the Labor party
or have not the courage to fight it.” And
Mr. E. J. Ward, after the Easter confer-
ence of the N. S. Wales Labor party had
passed the notorious “Hands Off Russia”
resolution declaring the war an imperialist
war, and placing its views in line with
those of the Communist party, went to his
Darlinghurst A.L.P. branch and was re-
ported as having said:
So far as I am concerned, there will be
no vacillating in regard to this war. Since
its outbreak I have opposed it as one not
in the interests of the working class....
The Easter conference was quite within its
rights in framing such a war and defence
policy as it did 1 am opposed to a force
going overseas, and to reinforcements for
Australian forces now overseas.
All this brings into relief the viewpoint
of Mr. Chifley, who dismissed Com-
munism as a political philosophy, and of
Mr. Holloway, Mr. Chambers’s senior in
the Ministry, who described the teachings
of Communism as Christlike, and the day
on which the All-Australian Trade Union
conference adopted Marxism as “the
happiest of my life.”
Mr. Calwell’s utterance on the Domain
last week was in another category. It has
been his luck to find himself nominated
as the defender of Fort Chifley whenever
that shaky stockade has been attacked
with anti-Communist ammunition.
Generally speaking, and up till now,
when Communism was mentioned in Par-
liament he could be depended on to make
some such remark as (“Hansard,”
March 7, 1946): “We have just been
treated to a political evangelical address
upon the dangers of Communism which
we have heard for the last 25 years and
generally at election-time.” Or he might
inquire sneeringly (same “Hansard,”
p. 110-111): “How many bogymen has
the honorable member got, apart from
Thornton?”
As late as March, 1949, when he was
put up to answer Mr. Lang’s resolution
for adjournment which forced the un-
willing Government into taking action
against L. L. Sharkey on the charges
which are at present sub judice, he said
that he “believed that in the long run sup-
pression would produce worse results
than will occur if persons who preach
subversive doctrines are permitted to
function openly, and are prosecuted for
their actions against the law.” He taunted
the Opposition that “honorable members
opposite know nothing but suppression;
nothing but the use of force ; nothing but
Hitlerian practices; and nothing but the
barbaric and pagan practices of other
days.”
This brought the disconcerting question
from the irrepressible Mr. Archie
Cameron, of Barker (S.A.): “If, when he
returns to his hotel tonight, the Minister
finds a death-adder in his bedroom, will
he argue with it about its legal rights,
or will he get a stick and kill it?” This
Mr. Calwell seemed to find momentarily
unanswerable, though, had his forte been
repartee instead of personal abuse, he
might justly have replied, in view of the
similarity of the objectives of Communism
and Socialism, that snake does not usually
bite snake.
Now, however, Mr. Calwell has, in
effect, found the reptile in his own bed
instead of merely in that of the com-
munity, and is 20 times more violent in
his threats of suppression than any Oppo-
sition member. The Communists, he
threatens, are “howling for the last time.”
He says: “We will use the whole re-
sources of the Commonwealth to smash
them.” He called the coal conflict a
“struggle between the Labor Government
and the Communist ratbags,” and an-
nounced that “there is no neutrality in the
fight” and that “we will use the Army
and Navy and Air Force on them and
then we will see about the dictatorship
of the proletariat.”
In fact, Mr, Calwell seems to be deter-
mined to do everything to the Com-
munists that an excited imagination can
conjure up and an abusive tongue can
frame, even to shouting that “if it is left
to me, into a concentration-camp they
will go.”
The only measure which he does not
specifically propose is that which he most
strongly advocated last March—prosecu-
tion. And if ever there was the subver-
sion of authority which he says would
justify it, it has been in this latest indus-
trial struggle.
The whole argument which has been
used by the Chifley Government (that a
ban on the Communist party is useless)
is the measure of its own futility
and of its subservience to Communist
dictatorship which has been proved again
and again. That it is an empty argument
is shown by the fact that the Communist
party was under ban for more than 12
months of the Government’s own rule
in 1941-42 and that the Attorney-General
solemnly assured Parliament that he had
removed the ban only on receiving a bond
of good behavior from the leaders. Dr.
Evatt also gave a warning to the4eaders
that if they did not keep their undertak-
ing they would be suppressed again.
The ban had failed because “Labor”
did not enforce it. After “Labor” took
office it remained merely as a sop
to public opinion; the Communist
heads such as Miles and Sharkey “came
out of smoke” —Sharkey’s own words —
and functioned openly, holding meetings
in which Federal Ministers sometimes
participated and goading the Attorney-
General on to intern their enemies, in-
cluding the unfortunate Australia-First
men whose misfortunes seem to have been
entirely due to the fact that they incurred
the enmity of' a body which was under
suppression for subversive activities.
That sort of a ban is useless, but it is
the only sort which can be imposed by
a “Labor” Government which depends
for its existence on the affiliation fees of
unions run by the Communist Central
Committee members, and which was com-
pelled in 1943 to appoint a War Trade-
union Advisory Council on which the
majority were Communist officials and
which now is forced to the desperate
expedient of using the Army and Navy
to get and load opencut coal. This is
because to use moderate A.W.U. unionists
who are willing to do the work would
make an irrevocable split between them-
selves and Marx House and would not
be tolerated by their own third House of
Parliament, the A.C.T.U., some of whose
chief “moderate” representative officers
working with the Government have been
Communist officials.
It is quite obvious that the situation
calls for more than action by the exist-
ing Government. It calls for sweeping
action by the electors to rid itself of the
Canberra crowd which cannot govern.
The country is sick of its Brisbane lines,
its Maxie Falsteins, its abuse, its inepti-
tude, its extravagance, its standover
tactics against Opposition Criticism, its
Keane trunks, its Jock Gardens and its
complete subservience to the Red element
and its Moscow leaders.
Defenders of the Law—
Sometimes.
Plot for an Anat’ole France or a Hilaire
Belloc, or maybe for that “well-known
author and playwright,” Mr. Leslie
Haylen, M.H.R.: —
On March 18, 1947, during a wharf strike >in
Sydney, Messrs. Darby (M.L.A.) and Bridges
(M.L.C.), both Liberal-party members, obtained
permission from Mr. Graham, the McGirr
Minister for Agriculture, to hold a public
meeting in Sydney Domain. Their meeting
was broken up by a Commo-led bunch of
hoodlums and themselves assaulted. Police
arrested some of the attackers.
Opposition attempts to debate the violence
in the State House were gagged. In the Federal
House Mr. Chifley said it was a State matter.
When the assaulted members tried to see
Premier McGirr he said, “Mr. Darby’s action
was an incitement to mob violence.” The
McGirr “Labor” Government indicated gener-
ally that the Liberal members had deserved all
they got. Brought to court, one or two of the
lesser offenders got light fines, and the main
bunch secured adjournment after adjournment
until in July, 1948, 15 months later, a. weary
prosecution saw the charges dismissed.
On July 31 this year there was another
meeting’ in the Domain, this time an A.L.P.
“rally on the coal strike,” and headed by Mr.
Calwell, no less, with Messrs. Cahill and
Sheahan, of the McGirr Cabinet, and sundry
A.L.P. “heads.” A Commo-led mob of hooli-
gans tried to break up the meeting; there were
brawls and arrests. Did Mr. McGirr announce
that Mr. Calwell’s, Mr. Cahill’s and Mr.
Sheahan’s action was “an incitement to mob
violence”? He did not. He said nothing.
But Mr. Sheahan had plenty to say. As
Acting-Minister for Agriculture he swore to
“see if it is legally possible to ban the Com-
munists from the Domain It was the
behavior of larrikins and hooligans They will
have to be punished for their exhibition. If
they don’t allow others to speak, then the same
right will be taken away from them if I have
the power to do it.”
What’s sauce for the Liberal goose is
a positive purgative for the “Labor”
gander.


PLAIN ENGLISH
October or December?
The Chifley Government must be in a
serious quandary about dates and finances
relating to the coming Federal election.
If the election is held in October the
Government will be faced with the
problem of hurriedly tying-up the loose
ends in Parliament —the House of Repre-
sentatives does not meet till September 7
and the Senate has been called for
October s—and that will provide the
Opposition with a chance to fight its
campaign in Parliament. It would also
mean that the campaign would be fought
with the troops, perhaps just out of the
mines, and the community, especially the
community in the electorates from which
the “Labor” party draws its greatest quota
of votes, still partly unemployed and
still suffering from the terrible blow in-
flicted upon it by the strike,
Mr. Chifley would face also a condi-
tion under which the “Labor” movement
is in turmoil, if the outward indications
are a true reflection of what is going on
behind the scenes, a condition of affairs
in which Ministers like the strangely silent
Mr. Ward are divided from their col-
leagues and in which unions are similarly
divided.
On the other hand, if the Government
waits till December, or even later, it may
fate a worse condition of affairs.
The whole heart and core of the
“Labor” party, so called, is formed by the
big unions. The bulk of the funds avail-
able, apart from money which may be
found by sympathetic manufacturers,
sympathetic bookies, liquor people and
others upon whose gratitude the party has
a claim, comes from the Communist-
controlled unions, such as the Iron-
workers and the Waterside Workers,
The A.L.P. from time to time, by pass-
ing resolutions sternly excommunicating
all Communists from its ranks, and by
the issue of statements to the effect that
the “Labor” party is opposed to Com-
munism, creates an impression in the
public mind that it has no connection
whatever with Communists; but without
the Communist unions “Labor” would
starve politically.
The true position is shown by an article
in the “Tribune,” official organ of the
Communist party, which published on
March 20 last year a resolution submitted
by the National Council of the Iron-
workers’ Federation to the annual con-
ference. This stated that in view of the
consistent attacks” made on the union
by the A.L.P. Queensland State executive,
and the “disruptive activity of A.L.P. In-
dustrial Groups and increased affiliation
fees demanded by the A.L.P.”:
1. Automatic affiliation of the union on
its full membership to the A.L.P. is no
longer justified and
2. The union should not pay the present
scale of affiliation fees out of the general
fund of the union.
It was proposed that instead of paying
automatically to the A.L.P., “each branch
should in future be free to decide for or
against affiliation to the A.L.P. (as at
present), and levy moneys paid by any
branch shall be paid into the fund
created, and used at the discretion of the
National Council or National confer-
ence.”
The Australian Labor party is
really involved in a fight for -its
existence. If all the big Communist-
led unions were to adopt this stand
there would be no “Labor” party, since
the Communist leaders would see to it
that funds went to the A.L.P. only in
return for favors received.
If the Chifley Government decides to
hurry to the polls the electors can take
it that it is because the Government be-
lieves the internal position of the party
will become worse instead of better in the
next three or four months.
Cuts—Opened and Closed.
There are only two opencut coal work-
ings in Australia operated by the A.W.U.
—at Yallourn brown-coal deposits in
Victoria, by agreement with the State
Electricity Commission, and at Leigh
Creek, S.A., by agreement with the State
Electricity Trust.
The Miners’ Federation operates all
other opencut coal workings in Australia
—in N.S.W., Queensland and at Collie
(W.A.) —within its coal-getting monopoly.
There seems no doubt that the Hanlon
Government in Queensland and British
financial interests would both prefer that
the A.W.U, rather than the Communist
Miners’ Federation should develop Blair
Athol. Blair Athol has, however, hung
fire pending decision on the necessary
railway over the ranges to a shipping
port, though American investors are now
proposing to solve that problem with a
gigantic conveyor-belt. And Hanlon
doesn’t appear to have the political
courage of his A.W.U. convictions.
In N.S.W. the A.W.U. could hardly
come into the opencuts without an altera-
tion of its union constitution —not a diffi-
cult matter. That constitution already
includes within its province “members
employed in or about the Newcastle iron
and steel works or works subsidiary there-
to,” or in quarrying and similar establish-
ments “where work done is wholly or
mainly the supply of materials incidental
to the manufacture of iron and steel” —
which could let in coalgetting at open-
cuts.
There is, however, the Coal Industries
Regulation Act of 1946 of the Common-
wealth and State Governments, establish-
ing the Joint Coal Board and the Coal
Tribunal, which recognises only the Coal
and Shale Employees’ Federation (the
Miners’ Federation) as the union respon-
sible for coalmining. It does not any-
where refer to opencut workings, which
are not mines, though all coal won in
N.S.W. comes under control of the Coal
Board for distribution.
Since troops cannot indefinitely be kept
at N.S.W. opencut workings, the joint
Governments seem to be bound before
long to decide whether a union whose
executive has declared itself irrevocably
hostile to arbitration and is in open rebel-
lion against authority should be allowed
a monopoly of coalgetting in the chief
producing State of the Commonwealth.
An amendment of the Coal Industry
Regulation Act would enable the A.W.U.
to enter opencut workings, and the
“MISTER, WHERE’S YOUR HAT?”
A.W.U, would evidently insist upon the
permanency of any such engagement.
The Miners’ Federation is a registered
union in the Federal Arbitration Court.
That no movement has been made to de-
register it is due, no doubt, to the re-
luctance of all concerned to provoke a
general coal strike. But surely the
worst in that direction has already hap-
pened.
Staff of Life.
Under modem union conditions, with
the abolition of night-baking, most
householders in the big cities rarely see
a decent loaf of bread, or have any
choice of bakers if they don’t like what
they get. Melbourne’s royal commission
on the industry, like that in Sydney some
time ago, believes stricter Government
control of bread-making is inevitable.
Unlike Mr. Justice Kinsella’s terms of
reference in Sydney, those given to Mr.
Justice Stretton in Melbourne did not ad-
mit technical evidence on the quality of
bread. He recommends that statutory
authority should be created to prohibit
certain monopolistic practices within the
industry, though its “trade-protection
committee,” drawn from millers, bakers,
yeast-makers and pastrycooks’ suppliers
—an advisory and disciplinary body for
the whole industry—should be retained.
Nevertheless, free competition, he found,
had been quite suppressed, and, under
zoning, shopkeepers and consumers had
little redress against poor-quality bread
or late delivery. Only price-fixing regu-
lations keep down the cost of bread, and
the question is how much disadvantage
the community is to suffer, without choice
of bakers, as the penalty for the paying
less for the loaf than it otherwise would.
In the circumstances the report reads
like a counsel of perfection. It says that
if a statutory controlling authority is not
established as a watchdog, then “legis-
lation should be enacted... .to encour-
age some degree of competition in the
public interest.” The quality of bread
“has been affected by the changeover
from night-baking to early-morning
baking,” a change by way of com-
promise in the row between the opera-
tives and the bread-carters, which caused
the bread strike in Melbourne, and which
in turn produced this royal commission.
Early-morning baking, says the report,
is neither one thing nor the other, and
it holds that day-baking is bound to
come.
So long as dough is bashed about by
machines and forced to rise in a hurry,
pushed into the oven as soon as the first
rise begins, pylled out insufficiently baked
and given no proper time to cool off
before being stacked in delivery-carts, so
long will the community get inferior
bread.
The Plot Exposed.
If the Australian public wanted confirma-
tion that the coal strike was aimed at
overthrowing the authority of the Gov-
ernment, it now has it from the words
of the northern miners’ lodge delegates’
majority recommendation at last week’s
meeting. The preamble to a resolution
calling for aggregate meetings read:
The time has arrived for a serious re-
view of the position.,. .on the grounds
that:
(1) The strike was organised on the basis
that because of the extreme shortage of
coal and the critical plight of the Australian
economy, the struggle, in the words of the
general president, “would be short, sharp
and decisive.”
(2) The Governments, Federal and State
....would immediately take steps to avert
a national crisis causing the disruption of
industry through the lack of coal supplies.
We are now reluctantly compelled, by
the impact of stark realities, to face the
following facts:
(a) The fight was not short, sharp and
decisive, but is now with no indication
of a successful conclusion.
( b ) Instead of early capitulation, we find
the Governments determined to compel
us to return to the arbitration system....
The resolution was carried by only 31
to 27, and the Communist-sponsored
amendment (lost by a similar vote) de-
clared :
These proposals would be complete
capitulation a breach of faith against
our jailed leaders
One of those jailed leaders, Williams
(jailed for contempt —nothing else), had
declared at the pre-strike slopwork meet-
ings (of a minority of union members):
“If members show they are unified and
strong, the Government will settle this
within a week.”
For the first time in its history the
Chifley Government did not react in
that way. But it will yet fulfil the Com-
munists’ pre-strike expectations if it per-
mits these openly rebellious leaders to
return to control of the coal industry,
where they will have only one objective
—to serve their foreign masters by re-
peating the attempt.


CRAVEN
A
&
It’s their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVEN'A'
36,— ‘•V
6435E/R
CARRERAS LIMITED — OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
POLITICAL POINTS
New Zealand electors last week en-
dorsed compulsory military training, 78
per cent, of voters being in favor of
the system that provided the country’s
Army in two wars. Peter Fraser’s team
are Socialists, but they don’t believe that
push-buttons can replace trained men in
a country’s defence plans. Almost to a
man they supported their leader in his
advocacy of conscription, as did the
National-party members. Heartened by
the New Zealand example, the R.S.L. is
again asking Chifley to take a similar
referendum. He won’t agree, of course.
Chunk by chunk, with much gulping
and shuddering, the Chifley Government
has been swallowing the Opposition’s
advice on how to get coal for industry
when the Communists want it to stay in
the ground. With the opencuts again in
operation and Fixer Ashley threatening
to show his leader that the miners are not
the only people who can work under-
ground mines, it was left to Senator Mc-
Kenna to hint, in a Domain speech, that
“Labor” may even eat its own words and
force a secret ballot on the subject of a
return to work. In addition to pre-elec-
tion jitters the A.L.P. boys seem to be
in for the biggest attack of mass indiges-
tion in medical history.
“The Government got all the informa-
tion it wanted from the recent raid on
Marx House,” said Mr. Calwell in that
speech in the Domain 10 days ago in
which he promised that the Chifley Gov-
ernment was going to “smash Com-
munism.” Never was a “smashing”
campaign entered upon with so much
caution. It took these “smashers” a week
to decide to send a collier to Newcastle
to move a shipment of coal to Tasmania ;
and if the Communist-bossed Seamen’s
Union, which has tied up all colliers,
refused to man the ship (declared this
pot-valiant Government), then the Navy
would man it. This resolution also re-
quired several days’ notice to the union.
In the same way troops, it was announced
last week, are to be used in certain
mechanised coalmines —the date to be
decided after a conference some time or
other with Chifley. This is the mob
which is going to defend Australia with
“push-button” armaments.
Aneurin Bevan, talking sense for a
moment, told the Northumberland miners
“the only people who can put you on
your own feet are yourselves, and for 1949
I give you work first, independence
second, and Socialism third.” But hang
it all, that’s what the Conservatives have
been offering the people of Britain, and
when they said it Bevan accused them
pointing the road to a bloodbath.
Despite official denials that Britain has
any intention ot devaluing sterling, the
possibility of such a step being forced on
the Old Country by economic necessity
cannot be ignored by anyone entering into
long-term contracts. With this in mind
Fadden asked Commerce Minister Pollard
whether Federal Government contracts
with the U.K. contained any safeguards to
protect landmen from the effect of
devaluation. Pollard replied that the
possibility was “not specifically men-
tioned” in any of the contracts, though in
the case of meat, butter, cheese and eggs
there was a provision whereby annual
review of terms and conditions “may be
sought on substantial grounds.” He
added that devaluation would be regarded
as “creating exceptional circumstances
justifying reconsideration of such con-
tracts.” That’s all very well, but would
the British Government agree on the
point? A “Labor” Premier of N. S.
Wales let Dorman Long whistle when
payment for Sydney Harbor Bridge m
sterling or Australian money became two
different things.
Electioneering in 1943, Bert Evatt
stated that if “Labor” was returned there
would be no socialisation. He also said:
Let there be no mistake. There will be
more room for private enterprise and busi-
ness initiative after the war than ever
before in Australia’s history.
Since then the party of which he has been
a shining light—although at the moment
rather a guttering flame —has tried to
socialise the airways; has set up a Gov-
ernment airline; established a Govern-
ment line of steamers ; brought in legisla-
tion which could be the end of commer-
cial radio; made frequency modulation
and television Government monopolies,
attempted to nationalise the banks. Bert
will be electioneering again soon. He’d
better not speak from his old campaign
notes.
Criticising what has been termed
Churchill’s opening volley in the election
campaign, Attlee said it was “the kind of
political fighting that was popular when
Mr. Churchill was young. He cannot
drop the habit.” Isn’t that just the whole
trouble in Britain today? The Attlee
Cabinet is trying to govern the country
on principles imbibed in Fabian Society
circles when the P.M. and his colleagues
were very young. They were Socialists
in theory 30' or 40 years before they got
the chance to put theory into practice.
It hasn’t worked out as they hoped, but
they are Socialists by habit and they can’t
drop it.
It is a favorite cry of “Labor” poli-
ticians that “we do not wish to go back
to the bad old days of before the war.”
It is to be hoped they will now have
the nous to see that the country does
not go back to the bad old days of before
the strike, when industry lived from
hand-to-mouth for coal at the behest of
the Communist-controlled Miners’ Fede-
ration. Obvious steps, apart from the
extension of work in the opencuts, are
an insistence on the mechanical extraction
of pillar-coal as recommended by expert
after expert, but resisted by the Federa-
tion, and positive action to throw off the
incubus of the darg with its stifling effect
on production.
In commemoration of their leader’s
“stand” against the Communists during
the coal strike the Macquarie branch of
the A.L.P. might consider renaming that
local opencut Ben Chifley Bullen.
Queensland Premier Hanlon has re-
ceived the Powell-Duffryn report on his
State’s coal deposits. It will remain
“secret” until his Government examines
it. Those in the know tip it will reveal
“dramatic industrial possibilities” for
Queensland and coal quantities “hitherto
undreamed of,” Most reports of that
nature indicate wealth of that nature in
this country —the trouble is that nobody
ever acts upon them, or, if they do, find
themselves stalled by the dead hand of
Government interference.
Meanwhile there is talk of another
scheme for developing Blair Athol. It
involves an American offer to build a
conveyor-belt from the field to the sea,
a matter of 130 miles.
Sydney Sunday papers carried an in-
triguing story of an alleged attempt on
the life of a member of the A.L.P. in-
dustrial group of the Clerks’ Union.
Found by police on Saturday night on a
Sydney harbor beach, he claimed he had
been thrown off a Manly ferry by Com-
munists who first robbed him of import-
ant documents. On Monday the police
stated that they had rejected the story
given by the alleged victim, Dobson.
Most people will share the resentment
of the Lord Mayor of Brisbane at being
questioned by Evatt’s Security Police on
his remarks at the Ipswich Rotary Club
suggesting the formation in Australia of
a Freedom League—a resentment the
Mayor expressed by requesting the in-
vestigation officer to tell Dr. Evatt, in
effect, to go and get himself preserved in
a museum. Another really interesting
comment was that of the Brisbane head
of the Security service in identifying
sponsorship of such a league—to “pre-
serve freedom” —with what he called
“activities of the extreme Right.” Appar-
ently even Evatt regards the Left, his own
side, as necessarily against freedom.
A neat comment from Eggins, M.L.C.,
chairman of the N. S. Wales Country
party:
When it was obvious that the Communist-
leaders were intent on imposing their
sudden-death policy on Australia weeks
ago, the Socialist Governments countered
the move with an unhealthy policy of
creeping paralysis. They refused to apply
the Crimes Act, but left the Court of
Arbitration to apply a temporary emer-
gency law to their misdemeanors. It was
like apprehending a major criminal, and
jailing him for riding a bike without a
light, .
General Franco, who is not exactly a
supporter of the freedom of the Press,
has been invested with the title of First
Journalist of Spain by “a commission
of newspapermen led by the Under-
secretary of Popular Education.” Surely
Arthur Calwell is not going to let this
pass unchallenged? How about a depu-
tation of Department of Information
journalists acclaiming him Ace Reporter
or Star Columnist?
Hollway intends to tighten up Vic-
toria’s electoral laws to lessen election-
campaign abuses. There’s no suggestion,
though, of emulating the McGirr gag on
the Press.
Menjries opened his Queensland tour
by telling a packed hall at Toowoomba
that he had never thought he “would see
the day when a Socialist Government
would prefer to use soldiers to break a
strike rather than use the A.W.U.” He
could safely have added that if the people
allow Australia to become a Socialist
State they can expect to see troops of an-
other kind used to enforce Socialist de-
crees in every direction —for Socialism
cannot work without the use of
troops/police to enforce its rule.
Chifley threatens to “emphasise” to the
Premiers at their powwow next week that
they “must play their part in dollar sav-
ing by taking over petrol-rationing.” Or
should it be “play their part in regaining
a lost control and restoring a lot of
cushy jobs and restarting a rampant
blackmarket”?
After having been the excuse for more
strikes than any other ship in Melbourne’s
mercantile records, the Haligonian Duke
has left for an unknown destination, after
her five months’ sojourn. “The master
wishes to express his appreciation to all
the numerous friends and wellwishers who
in the past five months impressed him
greatly with their most generous hospi-
tality and kind offers of help,” was her
parting message. A masterpiece of
diplomacy.
The Communists are trying to per-
suade their victims that it’s now the
A.£.P.
Calwell told a Wangaratta (Vic.) audi-
ence that Australia should be divided
into about 20 or 30 States if it wanted
to get anywhere. Doutbless he will urge
his Government to urge the McGirr
Government to give the New Englanders
their heads.
Pitboys and other coalmining youths
have been extensively employed in the
Communist effort to bludgeon this coun-
try into submission and establish a per-
manent “dictatorship of the proletariat”
as to coal. Their counterparts in M.L.
will in future have to recognise that the
country comes first and to learn how to
encounter not only foreign but domestic
foes, “lest discord burst in slaughter.”
It is no secret at Canberra that W. M.
Hughes has never been among the fervent
admirers of Smuts. With a memory of
the Boer-war days, Billy has been known
to apply to the other elder statesman the
term “slim” — i.e., cunning. Now “S. M.
Herald’s” Cape correspondent accuses
Smuts of having imported 75,000 British
immigrants to prop up the fading fortunes
of his party, and of having seen the plan
doomed to failure because Boer and
British Afrikaner have combined to
frustrate it, though on different grounds.
With the same object in view Federal
“Labor” is bloating the number of elec-
torates, and the result will be the same.
Early last week the dailies had it that
Pollard had “disclosed” a distribution of
£250,000 to the States to help the dairy
industry. It was made up like this; Vic.
and N.S.W., £67,583 each; Queensland,
£68,583 ; S.A., £19,125; W.A., £18,125 ;
Tas., £9OOO. Presumably the extra quid
is for administrative expenses or some-
thing.
The most illogical animal in modern
society is surely the scientist who dabbles
in politics. One of the species, J. Legge,
lecturer in biochemistry at Melbourne
University, in a talk to the students’
Labor Club, said that the Royal Com-
mission on Communism, which he de-
scribed as a “witch-hunt,” would result
in less academic freedom. When he said
that all lecturers should be able to ex-
press their own political and scientific
ideas, someone asked whether he would
include Fascist lectures. The advocate of
academic freedom answered “no,” giving
as his reason “they are fit for a padded
cell and not a university.” Presumably
an exception to the exception would be
made in the case of Red Fascists.
The Communist campaign for the
Federal election holds some terrifying
prospects. Sydney “Tribune” is running
a competition for an election song, to be
sung by the People’s Singing Group “for
electoral purposes.”
“Free medicine” in New Zealand. A
man’s ears became choked with wax. He
rang several doctors, was told to report
to a hospital. He went and was told to
go away and telephone for an appoint-
ment. He did so and, on arriving at the
appointed time, was given a form and
told to fill it in. That done, he handed
it over and was eventually given a time
to return for treatment. It’s just as well
he didn’t have a fractured spine.
British spectacle-makers turned out
3,700,000 pairs of specs in the first six
months of this year, but it wasn’t enough.
Something like 3,000,000 applicants are
still waiting for their “Government
glasses” ; time-lag on delivery is six to
eight months.
London publicans, through years of ex-
perience*, are inured to most of the ways
of the hard-up boozer who wants to put
a couple of drinks on the slate, but
they have been faced with a new one.
A dockside Bung wrote to the “Times”:
Twice within a week I have been almost
nonplussed by new tactics. One man
offered to deposit his spectacles with me as
an earnest of his intention to repay the
modest loan, and the second overwhelmed
me with his dentures. I feel that the free
provision of security against short-term
loans is an unheralded aspect of the mag-
nitude of Mr. Sevan’s bounty which should
not go unrecorded.
There was no reason why the beerpuller
should feel nonplussed; after all, the
system is called social security.
Communism in Asia owes most of its
success to its ability to dangle before the
land-hungry peasants the prospect of loot.
That the prospect is a transitory illusion
is indicated by a captured document pub-
lished by the Nationalists, in which the
Reds warn the faithful thus;
If we don’t liquidate the impoverished
peasants in China they might, in the event
of an imperialist .attack, waver in their
determination to stand by us. To ensure
final victory they must be liquidated.
The declaration is in line with Soviet
history. The Russian peasant was won
over to Communism by breaking up the
big estates and giving him a share. As
soon as the regime was consolidated the
peasant was branded a “kulak”; the
kulaks were liquidated and the land col-
lectivised. That is to be the pattern in
China and in any other land where the
Reds climb or crawl to power.


SOCIETY
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“F.S.”: I have a fellow-feeling for the
Chinaman who told a sceptical Beak in
an opium case in Melbourne that he
fined himself two shillings every time
he took a whiff of chandu and donated
the proceeds of his self-penalisation to
the Royal Melbourne Hospital Although
he showed a receipt for £2O from that
institution an unfeeling court added an-
other £lO. In my distant boyhood I
tried to rid myself of a distressing habit
by taking a private oath to destroy one
of my most treasured possessions every
time I fell. The precious objects were
copies of a popular comic I had collected
over the years. Each time I succumbed
to my obsession I religiously tore up a
comic. In due course the entire collec-
tion vanished, but I still had the habit.
The Chinaman doesn’t seem to have been
any more successful. As he left the
court he asked for his pipe back.
* * * *
“Bo”: It was a clear, sunny morning,
and during the 14-mile journey to town
I couldn’t help noting from the train
window that from thousands of back-
yard clotheslines there fluttered in the
breeze freshly-laundered clothes, sheets
and towels, while in other houses there
appeared to be great activity in the region
of the laundry. It was, coincidentally,
the same morn on which there had
appeared a published intimation from
some commissar or other in our Socialist
paradise that he would shortly consider
graciously whether Sydney housewives
might be permitted to use a little gas or
electricity to do their washing for the
first time for several weeks. Now it first
struck me as rather strange that from
not one laundry chimney was issuing
any smoke. The thoughtless and un-
imaginative ones will leap to the con-
clusion that this was because, coal being
unprocurable and the wood you buy—
“ Gladys ! Tell Mrs. Jones Jones her hot shower is ready.”
when you can get it —being too green to
be combustible, the housewives were re-
belling and risking (!) a £5OO fine for
illegally using the gas or electricity they
pay for. But I’m convinced that no
Sydney housewife would dare do such a
thing, and I put forward the theory that
they have discovered a new secret smoke-
less fuel.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: I don’t agree with singer
Joan Hammond when she says that too
niuch music is killing public interest, and
we ought to have fewer concerts and
fewer virtuosi. In my long experience of
Melbourne music I have never seen more
interest in music or, at least, in concert-
going. Having just completed an exhaust-
ing week of attendance at five concerts,
all packed with impassionated lovers of
the Muse, mostly young people, I couldn’t
help but disagree with her, but when I go
out into the foyer and look around me I
can’t see a single face I know. Five years
ago there was a different set of faces and
five years before that there was another.
What are those former music-lovers doing?
My theory is that they’ve bored them-
selves with listening instead of doing.
There should be less listening to music
and more making of it. The best period
in English music—when it was supreme
in Europe—was in the days of Byrd and
Purcell, when there was no A.B.C. or
subscription concerts, everybody seemed
to make his own music, and Samuel Pepys
couldn’t visit his lady friend without play-
ing to her a piece of his own composition
* * * *
“Young Slim”: Since the Lawson
stamp appeared I have taken note of the
number of people who peer at the name
and say “Harry Lawson ; who’s he, and
whadidedo?” Watching them from my
side of the post-office counter and put-
ting a stroke on a piece of paper for
each similar query, I tallied 54 before a
women commented vaguely that he was
a “writer or something,” and a man pre-
sent picked her up and recited for her
benefit. They were the first to claim a
slight knowledge of Henry. I’m still
waiting for more.
* * * *
“Ray Whiting”: After the orderliness
of one’s own regiment some of the transit-
camps back at home struck us as comic
,set-ups. There was one joint where we
lingered a while before being moved up
to the big training camp near by. An-
nexed to it was an orderly-room bristling
with A.W.A.S., a bunch of provosts try-
ing to look like something else, a boob
and an extensive piggery serviced by the
prisoners. We were roused one dirty, wet
midnight by yells of blue murder, as,
stubbing his toes on tent-pegs, the O.C.
flailed towards the guard-tent, where he
found the entire guard happy in its
blankets, the sergeant even in pyjamas.
It cost the sarge a tenner at his court-
martial. The O.C, having heard odd
noises, had leapt out of his big iron bed-
stead and landed in the dark among
half-a-dozen fat sows. How they got out
of their yards, and why they picked on
the boss’s tent, was a mystery —more or
less.
* * ♦ *
“Zake”: As one who, in a brief but
hectic career, once bore the proud title,
conferred generously on him by his unit,
of being the worst “babbler” on the
Western Front, I had often sadly reflected,
on hearing of the last-war cooks prepar-
ing three-course meals instead of feeds,
lordly beings who “babbled” in collabora-
tion with dietitians and prepared the
scran in terms of calories, that the cook-
house kings had degenerated into a bunch
of pansies and that the great and attrac-
tive element of chance had gone out of
being on the receiving end. But the in-
cident of the poison in the soup at Pucka-
punyal camp in Victoria has brought
Army cooking back to its rightful place.
Actually, troops really like the oppor-
tunity to roar at the babbler. Moreover,
their judgment in culinary affairs is often
unsound. I recall an evening when the
mob were impatiently banging their dixies
for their tea —tea literally was all they
were being issued with to supplement their
bread and plum-’n’-apple. Desperate with
the mounting din, with the water not
quite boiling, I heaved a few handfuls
of tea into the copper and ordered Dopey
Jack, my offsider, to toss in a dixie of
fresh milk, product of the a.w.l. cow we’d
souvenired. Dopey dreamily kicked off a
dixie-lid and poured, not the milk, but a
half-dixie of stew surplus from dinner
which we’d been keeping for our own
use. The spectacle of greasy bits of meat
floating among the tea-leaves wasn’t
exactly reassuring. However, after hav-
ing fished them out and put the milk in,
I made the supreme sacrifice and dumped
"I'm sure there's a noise in that diff."
in our own private sugar reserve. For
the first and only time we were congratu-
lated by the mob on giving them “a real
sar’-major’s cup of tea.”
* * * *
“Becks”: Why don’t the blokes who
write the cables or the blokes who send
them, or the blokes who receive them, or
the blokes who rewrite them, or the
blokes who print them, check up their
facts instead of leaving the job to the
blokes who read them? Most Australian
papers have carried the story of the
modem Vikings who crossed the North
Sea to commemorate sie 1500th anni-
versary of the Hengist invasion of , Britain,
and most of them told of their reception
by a band of “Saxon warriors.” Sorhe-
one has been getting his invasions mixed.
Hengist and Horsa landed in Kent at the
invitation of the British king Vortigern,
who hired them to help him repel the
Piets. Before long he was looking for
someone to help him repel Hengist and
Horsa. These invaders are sometimes
described as Saxons, sometimes as Jutes ;
certainly they came from Jutland. It
was not until three or four centuries
later that the sea rovers became known
as Vikings; when they in turn invaded
England, not by invitation, they came up
against Saxon warriors—the descendants
of the followers of Hengist and Horsa.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Another migration tragedy has
happened in Melbourne, this time not
due to Mr. Calwell but to the baleful
effects of pleasant associations surround-
ing pickled onions, Fong Lee, a 70-year-
old Chinaman who had spent most of his
life in Little Bourke-street dreaming of
how he could get back to the old home-
town outside Canton, got his chance when
some of his compatriots booked his pas-
sage back to the Flowery Kingdom, On
his way down to the steamer Fong lost
his way, became hungry, spied a bottle
of onions in a Bourke-street shop-window
and attained his new heart’s desire by
butting his head into the plate-glass. He
was quietly eating the pickles when
arrested. The Beak gave him free Gov-
ernment lodgings for one month pending
the departure of another vessel.
* * * *
“Brolga”; While I don’t doubt “Sing
9’s” account of his drive to the city from
Rose Bay (B. 27/7/’49), I’d point out that
it’s drivers like himself who help to make
traffic-jams because they don’t know and
won’t trouble to learn the various by-
passes and deviations which will take
them round the most congested points.
I live out in the same direction as “Sing
9” and travel to and from the Cross
every day, generally in the peak periods.
There are at least five through-routes
which will keep a car off the main tram-
lines ; the distances by any route do not
differ by more than two-tenths of a mile.
Only this morning a large car, travelling
fast, hooted savagely for room to pass—
he had most of the road at that. He
took the main route while, dropping back,
I shot off on a byway; I rejoined the
main route about 60 yards ahead of him
after a mile of leisurely driving. My
wagon is easily recognised, and as he
speeded up to pass me again I could
see that he and his fair passenger were
wondering if it had sprouted wings. It’s
the same in every congested near-city
road; if drivers would study a map and
the general flow of traffic at different
hours of the day they’d save a lot of
time, petrol and patience. But I haven’t
found a way to bypass the Harbor Bridge
jams yet.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Hamfat”: Not only the pubs have
changed from their old comfort (B.
20/7/’49); the publicans are a different
race —metallic-spirited now, as is natural
with men only interested in goldmines.
There are no Sydney publicans now like
Roberts, whose dining-rooms, covering the
whole first floor of his big hotel, were
his hobby, or Host Usher, whose pride
was not in his splendidly-stocked bar, but
in the sauces he himself concocted to
tickle the palates of his diners. There
were rough pubs in the country; my
memories of youthful travellings are
dotted with recollections of places where,
when the sojourner departed, he was
adjured, “Think of this place as your
home when you come back this way.
Come back soon,” with the inevitable
drink “on the house” before you left.
They were homes, too ; with comfortable
landladies who saw that breakfast trays
came to you in bed (“Missus said that as
you arrived late by the mail you might
like your, breakfast before you got up”)
and were prepared to see about such
things as your laundry being done in
time and buttons going on your clothes
before you left. Places like Bonnor’s
(Armidale), Murray’s (Uralla), the Van-
denberg (Forbes —Gilder’s when I knew
it), Metcalf’s (Parkes), Kenna’s (Bathurst),
to mention only a few, were spoken about
gratefully in the trains. There was an-
other factor, changed today, in that com-
fort of the past —the staff. The modern
pub-worker would hardly compare with
those of old in the matter of comfort-
providing. And the breweries have made
it all tougher.
* * * *
“Brid”: Council employees cleaning
out street culverts at Bridport (Tas.)
found some of the nine-inch concrete
pipes blocked up with earth. The usual
appliances produced only moderate suc-
cess. Then someone had a hunch, went
off a short distance and returned with
a full-sized Tasmanian porcupine. In-
troduced to the open end of the pipe, it
set its ditching apparatus going immedi-
ately, throwing out the material while
an interested group of spectators watched
operations; in a quarter of an hour it
had moved several cubic feet of stuff.
The originator of the idea believes it’s
the first time in State, or possibly Com-
monwealth, history that this Australian
native has been used on a job of this
kind; he has an idea for putting a team
into regular service. As an earth-shifter
Echidna aculeata (as he is known in
museum circles) puts in very effective
work; it’s a wonder post-hole diggers
haven’t thought of roping him in,
* * * *
“A.A.H.”: Lost property provides
some intriguing mysteries, but I wonder
what lies behind the parcel left on the
doormat of a Baby Health Centre in
Adelaide. It contained three sets of
dentures and a bottle of lysol.
* * * *
“Pawang”: All this agitation about
horror films strikes me as antiquated.
Our rude forefathers had them, though
they were fleshanblood shows in those
days. In Shakspeare’s “Titus Androni-
cus” the firstborn son of Tamora, Queen
of the Goths, is sacrificed by Titus, and
she retaliates by mutilating in an unmen-
tionable manner himself and his daughter,
while two of his sons are beheaded.
Titus then bakes two of Tamora’s sons
in a pasty and serves them up to her for
dinner. He then stabs her after stabbing
his own daughter, is himself stabbed,
while his surviving son stabs his murderer.
Tamora’s lover having been sentenced to
be buried alive, what is left of the cast
move off “to order well the state.” Yet
this is a mild example compared to the
thrillers perpetrated by Shakspeare’s con-
temporary, Webster. The fashion per-
sisted into the 19th century, and Cole-
ridge, De Quincey and other writers all
wrote horror plays or stories. The first
literary essays of Shelley were so-called
“Gothic” novels, replete with ruined
castles, murders and bloody magic, and
the creator of the celebrated Franken-
stein monster was his wife Mary. It was
as successful on its first publication as in
its celluloid revival. Children weren’t
banned from the Elizabethan theatre, as
far as I know, yet those times weren’t
any more violent than our own, with its
wars and atom-bombs and acid-bath
paranoiacs. Incidentally, how much ban-
ning of reports of the horrible Haigh trial
was done by the dailies which have been
piously demanding the banning from the
screen of horror movies?.
PROGRESS.
“Because doctors under the British National Health
Scheme have not the time for long explanations, the
authorities provide pamphlets which tell patients
how to treat themselves.”'
In all the British towns and hamlets
On busy health-scheme doctors’ shelves
The State provides a stock of pamphlets
Which teach the sick to cure themselves.
And thus the overworked G.P.,
Who often has to travel far,
Gets time for lessons, issued free,
On how to build himself a car.
The auto, manufacturer.
Released from his assembly-line,
Can seek some public lecturer
Who’ll tutor him in making wine.
Nor think the workless vigneron
Will therefore be turned out to beg;
Egg Board advice will coach him on
The proper way to lay an egg.
Thus will the ultimate in pleasure
Rain on the democratic mob,
And all will live a life of leisure,
Doing someone else’s job.
Reader of love-songs, hear our wrongs—
We poets, too, have had enough!
In future, you can write the songs,
And give us time to make the love!
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


your dependants look to to make the wisest choice
Your choice of an Executor and Trustee is a decision which directly
affects the welfare of your dependants. Your Trustee should be
chosen for his business knowledge, integrity, experience, perma-
nence and financial stability, otherwise you may imperil your
family’s inheritance. An executor should not be selected on
grounds of sentiment or affection. Avoid all risks by appointing the
Permanent Trustee Company. You can then be assured of expert
administration of your affairs, combined with absolute security and
safety.
Why not call and discuss this matter further with one of our
Executive Officers? Or write for free booklet, “Trust Estates and
Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, V.D,
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.CHM., F.R.A.CJS .
J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle Sub Manager: S. U. White
Secretary: F. R. Garland
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET
sw>
e
/a
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALES
PT. IS. IS
“Harold Hardupp”: This year the oc-
cupation shown on my income-tax return
was changed from “broker” (I go broke
regularly) to “investor” ; and an inquisi-
tive department has asked me for a list
of my investments. Monday starts with
a routine investment in a State concern
offering a potential return of £6OOO, sub-
ject to such minor conditions as drawing
the first marble, and there are minor in-
vestments in zacks’-worth of stamps in
newspaper gambles with potentials run-
ning as high as £2500. Before the office
is reached a bob has been invested as a
sort of deposit in the purchase of a flat-
building. And directly the office is gained
I am booked for a sixpence-a-time invest-
ment, with a dozen bottles of beer as the
main lure. This being for an excep-
tionally good cause, six tickets seem jus-
tified. Before the end of the week my
money has gone into shares in ventures
in the official gambles of three States
and a concern that helps to finance the
Tasmanian Government, and shares in a
possibility of acquiring three or four new
cars. Saturday, of course, brings the
time for my investments on the races,
horse and dog, two kinds of place-cards
in which it is only necessary for me to
pick four placed horses to get a hand-
some return, and, if I go to a football
match, a venture (at a zack a time) at
picking first scorer in each team.
Sometimes the investments pay dividends.
Last week I received a mysterious
£1 13s. 4d. sent to me by lt seems
that in the habit of dipping \my hand
into my pocket every time I’am asked
for a zack or a bob for a good cause
(with gamble attached) I hit the bull to
the extent of sharing a first prize of £2O
with 12 others. If the tax department
says I’m not an investor, what am 1?
* * * *
“Mac Hoots”: At King’s Cross, Syd-
ney, the delicatessens are selling English
rye-bread ; sent out here in special car-
tons and full of vitamins and oomph. I
suppose an economist could explain to
me the necessity for England to export
this bread —possibly so that she may get
money to buy grain to make bread with
—but I cling to my conviction that the
world is a little mad.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“H.A.L.”: In the Mount Lofty Ranges,
a few miles from Adelaide, is a small area
of country at an elevation of about
1800 ft. and with a rainfall of 40in. In
this favored location all the temperate-
zone trees and shrubs flourish ; in private
gardens one can see firs and larches,
beeches and oaks, redwoods and spruces
growing even better than in their home-
lands. Practically every species of rhodo-
dendron will also grow there, as well as
all the cold-climate flowers. The directors
of Adelaide’s Botanic Garden have long
coveted a piece of this country, with the
object of establishing on it a temperate-
zone botanic park. Only 50 acres would
be needed ; on it could be laid out perfect
replicas of the world’s alpine forests.
ranging from those of British Columbia
to the foothills of the Himalayas, each
grove interspersed with reproductions of
flower-dotted alpine meadows. Private
landowners have already done this kind
of thing on a small scale, but the only
chance the public has of seeing them,
apart from looking over the fences, is
when some garden is opened for inspec-
tion with an admission fee for charity.
* * * *
“Coil-Hutch”: As soon as we were
settled in at Gibraltar we exchanged our
R.A.A.F. uniforms for suits borrowed
from civilians and went across to La
Linea to see a bullfight. When the
matador entered the arena the crowd
broke into a deafening roar of applause.
Women tossed down roses, handkerchiefs
and fans; the little bloke in the
jacket picked up some of them, kissed
them and tossed them back to their fair
owners. There seemed something unfair
to us about all those shouts and screams
of “Vive el matador!”; another fighter
was due to appear in the ring, and we
thought he deserved at least one cheer, so
as one man we rose to our feet and
roared “Vive el torro /” I don’t know if
it was the first time that anyone had
wished success to the bull in a Spanish
arena, but it looked like it. A dead
“Well, if you walked on the inside you Wouldn't get so Wet:”
silence fell on the place, and all heads
turned in our direction ; el matador broke
the spell by bowing and grinning at us.
He bowed and grinned at us again after
dispatching the bull, but as we marched
out at the end of the show we were still
being stared at, with gloomy Spanish
headshakes and much comment.
« * * ♦
“Uco”: If “Flathead” means the ordi-
nary Army-issue biscuit when he talks of
dog-biscuits (B. 3/8/’49) his travels can’t
have taken him far from a field-bakery.
The Army biscuit didn’t score many
points for appearance and its flavor was
nothing to write home about, but it was
a sustaining item of diet. The Yankee
biscuit, on the other hand, was sweet
and palatable, but 10 minutes after you’d
swallowed it your stomach would be send-
ing up messages asking when the rations
were coming down.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: My nine-year-old, in com-
missioning his commissariat for a six-
day camp with his Wolf-Cub pack, care-
fully computed his own requirements,
then specified an extra amount. Pressed
for an explanation, he declared that the
extra grub was required as his assessed
share in the maintenance of a cub-
mate, whose supplies always gave out
before the end of the camp. The warm
glow engendered in me at this display of
mateship abated somewhat when I learned
the name of the short-supplied youngster,
whose father is an economist of some
standing. Discounting parsimony as the
reason for the short rations, I am wonder-
ing whether the condition arises from the
savant’s desire to inculcate in his offspring
the ability to conserve resources or utter
inability to get beyond theory."
* * * *
“Kelms”: M.os., is it (B. 29/6/’49)?
Prisoners-of-war in Germany found
many German doctors easy game, due, no
doubt? to the fact that their own troops
would have neither the wit to devise a
spurious complaint nor the hide to per-
petrate a fraud. It was different with the
Tommy m.os. They were wide awake,
and, for some obscure reason, con-
scientious p.-0.-w, working in the coal-
mines tried every means to stay up top on
the day when the top was due to fall in.
The demand for coal was urgent, so what
should have been safety pillars came out
with the rest. The Polish prisoners—
mostly coalminers —knew the danger and
knew, too, that a percentage of them
would be underneath when the roof caved
in. The Hun didn’t care how many Poles
went west, and the p.-0.-w. were powerless
to help themselves, but they could, and
did, warn the Aussies. When a fall was
imminent the Aussies paraded sick —one
man even held his hand on a hot stove
to give himself a genuine disability. They
tossed the Hun doctors, an Aussie doctor
would co-operate, but the British couldn’t
see the point. „ They were good doctors,
though.
* * * *
“Simon Scrawler”: Because it occurred
bn a forest road I had to direct an official
“whaffor” at the shivering truck-driver
who had just missed death by inches. “It’s
like this,” he excused himself, “My
brakes have gone crook, and I was hurry-
ing into town before the garage shut.” I
gave up. With three thousand feet of
timber on board and faulty brakes,, he
was “hurrying” on a winding, eighteen-
foot road, down a one Tin-ten grade.
**. * *
“E. & 0.E.”: The difficulties of Pandit
Nehru and other- Indian nationalists (B.
20/7/’49) must cause some very wry
smiles among the tyrannous British who
have retired in their favor, I once knew
a man who had given up an important
and well-paid job in Calcutta to lead a
laborious and by no means prosperous
life in Australia. I asked whether he ever
regretted the change. “Not for a
moment,” was the reply. “Here I am
my own master; there I was hampered
and thwarted in every way by important
Indians who apparently had nothing else
to do. One of these would come to me
with a long list of questions, or objections,
about my management. He had to be
treated tactfully, and I would waste hours
explaining every point in such detail that
he hadn’t a leg left to stand on. Then
he would thank me graciously and go
away while I returned to my neglected
work. But next day he would be back
again with a new set of legs. I couldn’t
stand it any longer.”
♦ * * *
“Simon”: I sympathise with the milk-
oh in his obstacle-race, but don’t see why
he should worry about savage dogs (B.
27/7/’49). All he has to do to soothe
them is to splash a little milk on the
ground and they’ll come round wagging
their tails and lapping it up as a wharfie
would the strike directions of a Commo.
* * * *
“2ZZ”: I am a regular follower of a
mid-morning radio serial. I have never
heard even one instalment, but, my wife
having told me of the main characters, I
find it easy to follow the yarn. If, when
I arrive home for lunch, the kids are
happy and the lunch is ready, I know that
the heroine’s love affairs are running
smoothly. If the kids are cranky the
other woman has gained a temporary
advantage. If lunch is late I know that
the heroine is faced with a grave problem.
Then, on the rare occasions when there
is no lunch at all, I know that the wireless
has gone bung and the wife has gone
next-door to listen.
* * * *
“Hyanlo”: King’s Corporals (B.
27/7/’49)? Like “P.P.” I could never
find anything about the rank in King’s
Regs., but we, during the last stoush,
had a chap at our camp at Hill 95," Pales-
tine, who claimed to have been made a
King’s Corporal during the 1914-18 war.
Being a batman, he did no parades and
very little work, but he certainly wore a
pair of hooks and no one ever challenged
his right to them,
* * * *
“Copley”: At least a handful of South
Australians are enjoying the coal strike.
Never have so many coal trains appeared
on the north lines carrying Leigh Creek
coal to beleaguered Adelaide, Glorious
clouds of rich black smoke appear over
the plains, and a couple of hard-working
engines come into sight with more car-
riages behind than seem possible for
engines to haul. Guessing contests as to
the number are a constant joy to the out-
back kids, and how many excuses a day
there are now to drop those correspond-
ence lessons and tear out to wave to the
train crews!
* * * *
“Col M.”: Up in the park where I
have my lunch a man is known by the
pigeons he keeps. If a large flock of
them attend his dining he becomes a
“personality,” viewed, with possibly a
trace of jealousy by those who can only
attract half a dozen birds, as being a
bit potty. At the moment these “per-
sonalities” might be mixing a good deal
of method with their madness. I’ve been
building up a little flock of the birds
myself, and should things get worse I
know where, with a little patience, some
crumbs and a rolled-up newspaper I will
get some nice plump ingredients for a
pigeon pie.
> * * *
“Isa Lei”; An Adelaide magistrate
wanted to know why the police prosecu-
tor had included in the charges 2s. for
a meal supplied to a prisoner—the usual
charge being Is. 6d. The prosecutor re-
plied that the establishment which sup-
plied the meals had increased its price.
The magistrate then asked the prisoner
whether he objected to the new price.
The convicted one didn’t. He well knew
that meals served to prisoners at the
watchhouse came from a near-by hotel—
exactly the same as the fare offered their
guests —and that two bob is cheap for a
hotel meal, even if you do have to eat
it at the watchhouse.
KINSHIP.
“In a debate in tbe House of Lords several peers
admitted helping their wives with the washing-up.”
While class-war rages near and far,
It’s good to know that still there are
Some signs that men are brothers;
That wealthy peer and common man
Both humbly fit into the plan
And help their wives—and mothers.
Though laborers and clerks and cops.
And men who work in sheds and shops,
With tools from pen to trowel,
May each night curse their kitchen lot
And sigh for what the peers have got,
Still, peers, too, know the towel.
Though men, politically, may fight,
Here is a fact that must unite
The peers and common workers;
Within the kitchen, one and all,
They nobly answer.to the call —
And show themselves no shirkers!
And so, while classes blindly grope,
There shines this beacon-light of hope;
And here’s the best of wishes.
A straw, they say, can clearly show
The way the wind elects to blow —
The peers wash up the dishes.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; Longevity seems to be
largely a matter of luck, though it’s true
that long-lived parents are a help. But
no particular clime, social condition or
habit of living produces more long-living
people than any other. I’m prompted to
these remarks by the memory of a
Riverina boss of the old days who read
somewhere about the siesta of the Spanish
races about the Mediterranean and
Central America. “This country is just
as hot in the summer,” he told us, “an’
we ought t’ try it. What say we work
from six to ten, then have a siesta from
ten to two, then work from two to six
from November to March. ’Struth, it
oughter put years on a man’s life.” Well,
we gave it a go, and had you visited that
station in the summer that year you’d
have found blokes spread out under trees,
dogs under other trees, sheep camped
and horses head-to-tail during the middle
hours. Everybody thought it was a great
idea. But when April came and we went
back to normal times trouble appeared.
Yes, the habit had taken a firm hold.
We were willing enough to go on after
10 a.m., but what can you do when every
“Stop giving him chewing-gum !”
horse on the place suddenly drops its head
°f. relaxes 011 thr ee legs, every dog trots
to the nearest bush and flops down under
it, and the sheep fold their legs, sink
down and start chewing the cud? I hope
that never again will I see the spectacle
ot a station outfit frantically trying to
wake up the animals.
* * * *
Lower Tops’!”; Mention that the
S y *J dlBenous animal found on deso-
late Maatsuyker Island off Tasmania’s
SM/M£n° aSt « S f marsupial mouse (B.
8/6/ 49) recalls that only last May bones
from aboriginal middens found there
e taken to Hobart for examination.
The most intriguing find on the two-mile
long, rockbound isle, however, was that
of a human skeleton early this century
in an almost inaccessible cave at the
north-west end. The only other event
of note was in 1907, when six survivors
from the Swedish barque Alphild, wrecked
near Port Davey, were tipped out in the
surf below the lighthouse at dusk and
just ahead of an oncoming gale, after a
miraculous 40-mile voyage in a discarded
prospector’s punt which they had puttied
up with clay. The men were bearded,
starving and with strips of canvas tied
around their feet, and they were a bit
restless at the lightkeeper’s complacency,
as the rest of the crew were still back
at the wreck and in dire straits. Then
the only communication between light-
house and the outside world was by
pigeon-post, but at that time the birds
could not get through because of hawks.
Fortunately the three-monthly service
steamer, Koonakarra, arrived two days
after the survivors and a fortnight ahead
of schedule. The lightkeepers were even
more pleased than the survivors to see
the steamer.
* * + *
“Bo”: The day before Mawby’s
brother-in-law arrived from the city foi
a short holiday the drought in which his
sub-standard-rainfall district had been
gripped for nearly two years broke. But
the joy that the steady drumming of rain
on the homestead’s iron roof and all that
it meant —an early end to the hand-
feeding of the sheep, the solving of the
serious water troubles, and all the rest —
this could scarcely have been expected to
be taken up enthusiastically by one whose
long-looked-for holiday in the open ended
in his being kept indoors for 12 out of his
14 days on the small station. He returned
after that dreary fortnight to his city
home, completely unconvinced, despite
endless talk of the conditions on the place
during the long drought, that the place
could ever be anything but a quagmire.
Still, he was grateful for his having been
invited up by his sister and her husband,
and when he got back he sent up what
he was sure would be the handiest thing
for Jim Mawby—a pair of gumboots.
That was 10 months ago, since when not
a drop of rain has fallen on Jim’s pro-
perty. But the boots have been put to
good use since Jim discovered that it
is just the right measure for the daily
quantity of bran and pollard for the
fowls.
$ * * «
“Solitude”: Seventyfiver dropped
wearily on to the doorstep, dug up pipe
and tobacco and placed them on to the
step alongside and reached for the news-
paper, He had just unfolded it and
settled down when Blue squeezed past
on his way into the hut. “Aw, watch
where y’re goin’, can’t y’?” the old bloke
growled at him. “Awkward flamin’ cow!
Darn’ near walked on me tobacco.” The
dog paused, apologised profusely, then
took himself in and flopped on the hearth.
Followed five minutes of peace, then
Seventyfiver stirred, took up his pipe and
filled it, and began slapping his pockets.
With a resigned grunt he dragged him-
self upright, and ran an eye over the
debris on the table. Not finding the
matches, he made for the shelf over the
fireplace and craned his neck along its
cluttered length. Suddenly there was a
pained yelp from Blue, followed imme-
diately by a roar. “Well, what y’ want t’
lie in the flamin’ road for? Serves y’
damn’ well right,” the old bloke bellowed,
as the mong, looking positively shame-
faced, transferred himself hastily to, the
doorstep. “Dunno why y’ can’t keep out
o’ the way sometimes. Gripes, a man
just can’t get nowhere for y’!”
* * ♦ ♦
“Old Bushman”: A Murray River
fisherman I knew on a “Tommy Bent”
three-acre garden block near Koondrook
(Vic.) had a pet emu which chummed up
with his horse. The two grazed together
everywhere. One day before the fisher
bloke set out to drive 30 miles in the gig
to a farm down Ker&ng way he locked
the two-legged avian pet in his shed,
Later a cobber let the bird out, but next
morning at the Kerang farm the pet emu
was there in the paddock grazing with
his equine friend. I would like to be-
lieve that the big bird followed the
neddy’s scent for 30 miles—but is it pos-
sible?
“ Gripes! A cove needs bobby-pins to keep this bait on.”
“Billy T.”: When the floods receded
old Ben rejoiced aloud, for he had enough
feed on the ridges to keep him going
while the new growth was pushing
through the deep layer of silt on the flats
which, he declared, would remake the
place. “Well, if this mud is as good as
all that, how about dumping a few dray-
loads of it on my lawn?” queried Mrs.
8., and because the gods had smiled upon
him the old man agreed. The lawn was
duly topdressed, raked and smoothed;
and Mum sat back to watch the new
growth come. It came all right; the
Bathurst burrs were first, with the Noo-
gooras a close second. Then followed a
new aggressive lawn quite foreign to the
soft couch which had rested the eye
there before, and which will have to start
climbing if it is to share the sunlight
with the newly-arrived paspalum. Mum
has battled gamely ; she kept up with the
burrs, but after futile efforts to eradicate
the paspalum has talked herself into hav-
ing a lawn of mixed grasses ; yet even
this calls for the eradication of anything
that would choke all the others. Now,
when she’s had a turn in the garden she
leaves a patch of lawn that looks as if
a plague of yabbies had arrived —any-
way, how can you get rid of nut-grass?
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: I’ll support “Hell-
dud’s” contention (B. 20/7/’49) that no
timber is positively resistant to termites
—all termites, that is. There are more
than 100 varieties of termites in Aus-
tralia, and heaven knows how many in
Africa and U.S.A.; and it’s a safe bet
that, between them, they can account for
everything that grows. There appears to
be nothing in the vegetable kingdom they
won’t tackle, although some
plants possess a temporary im-
munity in the green state. Some
timbers gain a reputation for
resistance because termites
won’t eat them from choice
when a supply of other food is
available; but the reputation
crumbles when the little beasts
run out of better tucker.
They’ll take anything that man
makes out of plant fibre, such
as bags and cloth, and an
animal skin, tanned, left lying
on the ground in termite coun-
try goes the same way. An
Indian fakir, indulging in a
40-day sleep, awoke from his
trance to find his feet being
removed by termites. I’ve even found
them in old bones which had reached the
stage of dry-rot. Man’s headaches are
really going to start when he leaves off
quarrelling with his fellows and tries to
wrest the supremacy of the earth from
the termite. It will be a grand tussle, with
no certainty of man’s winning.
* * * *
“Kelms”: The pen-name “Mud Skip-
per” appeared in a recent Bully. Along
the north-Westralian coast there’s a fish,
known by that name, which is probably
at that stage of evolution which marks the
emergence of life from the oceans to the
land. They are often found in trees, left
there by the tide and awaiting release by
the next tide. Being amphibious, the spell
out of water doesn’t harm them. Stranded
on the beach they hop across the mud
from one pool to the next, and whenever
two meet they fight—viciously. About
Sin. long, and somewhat resembling a
cobbler, they are probably akin to what
Africans call the blenny-fish.
* * * *
“Telarb”; Give a Torres Strait islander
a negative question anticipating the
answer “No” and he will give you “Yes.”
“You don’t get much rain here, eh?”
brings the answer “Yes”—meaning “Yes,
we don’t get much.” A clerk new to the
Strait was warned a crew would be in
for pay. “You blokes haven’t been paid
yet, eh?” he said conversationally as
he rummaged for books. They chorused
“Yes,” which stopped him in mid-search.
After things had eventually been
straightened out he wanted to know why
everyone didn’t give up asking negative
questions. But that is a bit harder than
he thought. A keen teacher on one of
the islands made confusion worse con-
founded by teaching the natives to answer
with a “No” as do the whites. After a
couple of visits white officials dread going
near that island, for now they don’t know
just whatinell the islander does mean
when he answers “No.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; He was such a decent
little cove that when he started to talk
religion to us we took it mildly, agreed
with most of what he said and refrained
from sarcastic remarks. This seemed
to encourage him, and when Mat said
one night that he “supposed a man
oughter do a bit o’ thinkin’ about things,”
he began to concentrate on Mat, seeing
in the big fellow a probable candidate
for whatever sort of a heaven he believed
in. But the trouble was that Mat seemed
to think this earthly life wasn’t too bad,
if you took it the right way and kept
clear of girls, and that whatever was to
come after death would come anyway,
Whereupon the evangelist sought to per-
suade Mat that there was a great reward
in the hereafter for those who earned
it. Seeking a simile that would impress
Mat with the difference between earthly
and heavenly joys he said, “Well, you
see, it’s something like pay-day. You
know how it is on pay-day. You get
your pay and you’re full of joy and
anticipation” “Too right,” Mat in-
terjected with enthusiasm. “Yes, well
in Heaven it’s sort of pay-day every day,
if you see what I mean.” He paused.
Mat pondered ; then a glad light broke
on his weathered dial. “Is that so?” he
cried. “Gripes, mate, wouldn’t a man
be able t’ paint the place red!”
* He * • *
“Ohinemuri”; Struck an old lone-
handed station fencer who was running
plain wire out off a Jenny per medium
of an old horse with the end of the wire
fastened on to Dobbin’s tail with a chain.
He used a special non-slip, easily-released
knot with the chain and hair of the tail.
He assured me that any honest horse will
pull his own weight by his tail, and that
long-haired women can also pull big
weights by their hair. One big advantage,
he claimed, was that the horse can graze
when not pulling without the collar
bumping round his ears. Shepherds on
the station used the same method for get-
ting calves out of swamps.
* * * ♦
“Horsefeathers”: Jim, the herd-tester
in our cow-cocky district, had been on the
job for years and was very keen, so when
he announced he was turning it in ex-
planations were called for. He hedged ;
then, “You see, Wal, it’s like this,” he
said awkwardly. “Jill and I are getting
married; and attending to twenty herds
will keep me away from home.” “You’re
crazy, son!” the cow-cocky snorted.
“Dicin’ four ’undred cows just for the
sake o’ one blonde-’eaded ’eifer!”
HAUNTINGS.
All day I am haunted by ghosts of things that
have never been,
Tenuous memories of unimaginable places
Visited somewhere beyond the borders of dream,
Dark, lost landscapes and strange-lit, half-
remembered faces.
What pure and planeless flight, what bodiless
wanderings
Through lands never shone upon by sun,
lands never
Whitened by the moon or snow, what songs
Unheard, yet half-remembered, lingering on
the ear forever!
Ah, brighter the world of everyday, the golden
heat-haze
Dancing a tarantelle on the bowed heads
Of sunbrowned wheatstalks, bowed before a
hot breeze
Coming over a thousand miles where a
sprawled continent spreads.
Where moves the strange reality of red kanga-
roos, hopping,
Bopncing like balls over the hard gibber
plains
Or among the spinifex pincushions; where un-
sleeping
The mirage quivers in indigo shapes, forms
fours, and feigns
Water, hills or trees with the same dexterous
deceit.
And once passed forever into that grey world
of dream
How will I forget the scent of summer, the
white.
Hot, dusty roads, the red roads, flowing like
a stream
Back under the wheels? Though dead, I must
still recall
Broad, bleached plains where the grass is
sucked dry
As soon as bom, and the watercourses fill
Once in a dozen years, under the crow’s dark
cry.
In darkness, I must be haunted by ghosts of
things that have been,
Tenuous memories of unimaginable places
Where shouting sunlight scattered the quiet
dream;
Bright, lost landscapes and warm-lit, half-
forgotten faces.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


KEEP
BRIGHT
To look and feel
bright, clear-eyed-
ful 1 of pep and
energy all day—
every day— you must
have clean bowels, a
healthy stomach,
good digestion and
regularity. Nature
sometimes needs a
little help, and Dr.
Morse’s Indian Root
Pills supply this help
without the use of
harsh, habit-forming
drugs.
DR.MORSES gi a
MRSSr
I* PILLS
flying hours
to Sgn Francisco
FLY ALL THE WAY IN THE MAGNIFICENT 300 M.P.H. DC-6
BCPA now provides the finest, fastest service across the Pacific. Step
aboard the luxurious DC-6 in Sydney on Wednesday* and arrive in
San Francisco, relaxed and refreshed, on Thursday. For sightseers or
business men, stopovers at Fiji or Honolulu will be gladly arranged.
For real comfort fly the "Southern Cross" route with BCPA . . . the
speedy DC-6 service with full sleeper accommodation at no
extra cost.
JUST.
Srr-
m
Xt costs r^c-d-
-glve VoU V iaUan
evety VTedneS-
\ yout ai \ utl e
\ tion M agent
\ travel as office. . uS tta»a
\ fcoOfcWf.. a'tans-^ tt ead
I •pxa ce >
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER
WITH IMMEDIATE CONNECTIONS TO UNITED KINGDOM VIA U.B.A> OR CANADA
BCA.ISA
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAIiKER
real good Scotch
£
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS. OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
“Wippegong”: I suppose every age has
reckoned itself the most wonderful yet,
and will continue so to do. My young-
sters will travel in better aircraft than I
did, yet maybe they’ll not have quite
the same appreciation for them, for 1
saw the aeroplane arrive. The first one
into our valley came staggering up against
a wild, wet Gippsland easterly, and the
shape of it lay for weeks afterwards on
the racecourse, where the eager feet of
the locals, pressing up to the flimsy fuse-
lage, had tramped the surrounding ’ soil
into black mud and left an “aeroplane”
of clean grass. Since then I’ve crossed
the ocean in a great machine that owed
its magnificence to the pioneers who flew
those contraptions, and count myself
lucky to have seen so much of the evolu-
tion of transport; but my span in turn
is inferior to that covered by my mother.
Last week she took off from Melbourne
in a Skymaster; nothing particular in that,
except that I don’t think any of her fellow-
passengers had reached there, as she had,
on a windjammer. Between those two
trips Mum has travelled by boot, where
no road had yet been cut; on horseback,
there being no vehicles; by timber-
trolley, the only conveyance there ; by
boat, over floods; by spring-cart (except
to dismount on the approach of the first
motor-cars while Dad and I tried to ride
out the performance put on by the mare),
by buggy, sulky, car, truck and the big
bus that now passes the farm. All were
enjoyed in their turn, and each contri-
buted to the richness of life and enabled
a balanced assessment of what is worthy
in modem methods; but the most prac-
tical contribution to the comfort of the
latest journey was a legacy from an old
grey mare named Bluey, who grew very
tired and used to stumble and travel
about half a chain on her knees before re-
suming the normal posture. Mum
accepted the fitting of the safety-belt prior
to landing without comment, but found
it entirely unnecessary owing to the long-
established habit in our family of keeping
the feet braced against the dashboard in
readiness for Bluey’s nose-dive.
* * * *
“C.A.”: Aboard the ancient contrap-
tion he’d converted into a truck. Rip-
snortin’ Charlie was headed for the bush
to find himself some firewood, and, hav-
ing nothing better to do, 1 swung up
alongside. “Most o’ the best stuff’s been
picked out, close in,” he remarked, swing-
ing the wheel wildly one way, then an-
other, to keep the vehicle travelling
straight. “But I reckon we’ll find a bit
down the hill here.” The bush track was
narrow, winding and wet, with bad
patches of bog. “Only way t’ get over
them places is pace,” said Charlie, as
we skidded off the bush on the left side
and smashed a sapling on the right.
Presently the track ran parallel with a
precipice, and & few inches from the edge
I gripped the seat and vainly tried to
recall the dutifully-repeated prayers of a
generation ago. The grade became steeper
and the truck gathered still more speed.
“Sure she’s not running away on you?”
I managed. Chas grinned. “Not her,”
"No last requests?”
he scoffed. “It’s only that I got no
brakes. Steering’s gorn crook on me
again, be the feel of it. Mind the bump
at the bottom.” We hit the small wash-
out, took off, and landed on four wheels
on the further side. “Damn’ good bus,
that,” her owner said proudly as he
swung the axe 10 minutes later, “If I
c’d only fasten them back wheels on
better, she Gripes, what’s that? Look
out! ”he bellowed. “It’s a snake !” He
jumped to the top of the log, waved his
arms and shouted frantic warnfngs as
I dispatched the little 18-incher. “Y’
positive it’s dead?” he inquired, “Awright,
well, chuck it further away, can’t y’?
Gripes, a man can’t take no risks with
them flamin’ things around.”
* * * *
“Old Bushman”: Blackbirds, those
golden-billed warblers whose flutelike
notes are so much a feature of Sydney
and Melbourne suburban gardens, aren’t
looked on in the same light in Tasmania.
Twenty years ago some of these English
importations escaped from the Hobart
Zoo and nested in the Government House
gardens. The Governor (then Sir James
O’Grady) refused to destroy them, and
since then they have increased by thou-
sands to do extensive damage to fruit
crops. The Government pays £250
annually to boys as rewards for destroy-
ing birds and eggs, but last week in
Hobart the Fruit Board asked that the
reward be doubled.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: If my know-
ledge of wedgetails were confined to what
I read in print I’d be under the illusion
“G.W.” (B. 20/7/’49) embraces —that
the birds are flying angels. Does he mean
to infer that a pair of eagles which I’ve
seen killing a drought-weakened kangaroo
by wing-buffeting would discriminate be-
tween lambs and ’roos? Nobody except
“G.W.” is talking about wedgetails flying
away with young lambs. But I have
the experience of 11 winters riding lamb-
ing ewes to back up my claim that some
wedgetails kill lambs in the same way
as they do ’roos; many peck straight
through the lamb’s back to the kidneys.
Proof that this belief was strong among
practical men was that P.P. Boards in
western N.S.W. in depression years will-
ingly paid 2s. 6d. a head bonus for
eagle beaks.
“Kelms”: I’ve heard the wedgetail
charged, prosecuted and found both guilty
and not guilty so often that I fight shy
of any direct statement on the matter.
I’ve seen the big bird in circumstances
that were all but conclusively incriminat-
ing, though I’ve never actually caught him
in the act. But 20-odd years ago, in a
Westralian country district, an eagle was
interrupted in the act of taking a baby
from a crib. If he’d take a baby he might
take a lamb.
* * ’ * *
“B. A. Ker”: Jimmy is a born “mixer.”
He seems to know everybody by sight,
and a brief conversation is generally long
enough to qualify a man as “a mate
of mine.” I’d never known him to
quarrel with anyone, so it came as a
shock to hear him request the boss:
“Fix it so I don’t have to work with
that ‘rice’ tomorrow, will you?” The
. boss was mystified. “Rice?” he repeated.
“What rice?” Jimmy grinned apologeti-
cally. “The rice-and-sago—that dago
bloke. He’s a queer coot. This morhin’
I just said to him ‘How y’ goin’, mate?’
and you ought to have heard him go to
market—pelted his shovel down and
swore a treat. Then he got sulky and
hasn’t spoke all day.” A little before
knock-off Angelo approached the trump.
His broken English took a lot of decod-
ing, but the text of his tirade seemed to
be that he was bom in Napoli, his father
and mother were born there also, and so
were their parents; he was a European
and nobody could say he was anything
else. But this Jeemmy had called him a
Chinaman ; and if Jeemmy said that again,
Angelo would hit him with a shovel. It
wasn’t like Jimmy to insult anyone, the
boss pointed out; was Angelo sure he’d
heard correctly? Angelo was. Just then
one of Jim’s numerous “mates” came
cantering down the road. Jimmy looked
up from his job of packing ballast; his
habitual grin spread till it touched both
“stick-out” ears. “How y’ goin’, China?”
he hollered. Then the boss saw daylight.
* * * ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Wippegong” (B.
22/6/’49), speaking of a blue wren, men-
tions his “harem.” Isn’t he being unjust
to the bird, who is really quite faithful
to his lifelong mate? There are 14 species
of blue wren, or superb warbler, in Aus-
tralia, and of these my State, W.A., has
eight, and perhaps nine. Only the male
has the bright colorings. They’re not
all blue, by the way; there are black-
and-white, blue-and-white, variegated,
red-winged and black-winged varieties —
and none of the young birds acquire
their adult plumage during the first year.
The parents may rear several broods each
year, the early broods helping to feed
the sitting parent and the younger birds.
As the whole family sticks together, the
male bird is often seen in company with
several grey-brown birds, mistakenly
presumed to be his wives.
* * * *
“Zake”: A piece of a circular-saw
which flew to pieces at the sawmill where
he worked had neatly sliced a piece out
of the perimeter of Duffy’s skull, though
miraculously without causing him much
more than superficial injury. To the little
bush hospital to which he was taken
some of his workmates came, but they
found Tim inconsolable. He would, he
vowed, rather have had his arm off. After
he had kept this strain up for a while
one of them lost patience. “But, damn
it all, Tim,” he said, “after all, it didn’t
do that much harm to your scone, did
it?” “My oath it did!” retorted Duffy.
“I had me bumps read a few munce ago
by a bloke travellin’ the districk, and he
reckoned I’d come into a forchin. Well,
me bumps was on the part o’ me skull
that was shorn off. Howinell will a man
be able to come into the money now?/’
EX-SERVICEMEN.
Send for the bromo-seltzer. How their heads
Throb with the mad hangover of a war,
Ache with the wild desire to explore
The places still remaining to be seen.
Send for their travel permits to Madrid,.
Heard Island, Glasgow, Broome or San Diego;
Write for their tickets (air) to Pago Pago,
Or anywhere that they have never been.
Send for the bromo-seltzer. Help them out,
Out of the curious lethargy of peace.
Help them to their ambitions of release.
To new excitements in a distant town.
Find them a job (it doesn’t matter what)
In which they’ll come to know another place,
And meeting fresh adventure face to face
Perhaps at length they’ll learn to settle down.
N.S.W.
IAN HEALY.


ẁ
ECONOMICAL SERVICE oi the administration of estates and trusts
The Trustees Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s Oldest Trustee Company.
CHARGES ARE FIXED AND MODERATE. SERVICE IS PROMPT AND EFFICIENT.
Wide experience means sound advice,
safeguarding the interests of your
dependents, and preserving your assets.
No private trustee can offer you such
continuous service or security in the
performance of trusts.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Eennon
Raws, 0.8. E. ; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton,
1LS V Molb., E.R.C.S., Kng.; G. D. Young:; W. Sydney Jones.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones,
I BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves,
; _ y' . • a ' -
NEW SOUTH WAXES DIRECTORS:
Dr. H. J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cftdwallader; Sir Xeslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 8.0.; David Wilson, M.A., X.X.8., K.C.
N.B.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
New Zealand Insurance Co.
To Re-
May, Proflt.f Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z.
1940.. 346,718 10 p.c. = 150,000 196,718 2,336,988
1941.. 392,346 124 „ „ 187,500 204,846 2,541,834
1942.. 415.877 124„ 187,500 228,377 2,770,211
1943.. 624,124 124 ~ „ 187,500 436,624 3,206,835
1944.. 542,440 124 „ ~ 187,500 354,940 3,561,775
1945.. 396,800 124 „ „ 187,500 209,300 3,771,076
Peace bonus, 124 P-c., £187,500 .. 3,583,575
1946.. 458,529 124p.c.= 187,500 271,029 3,854,604
1947.. 931,979 124 „ „ 187,500 7.44,479 4,599,083
1948.. 994,052 124 „ „ 187,500 806,652 5,405,635
Less Exchange adjustments, etc.,
£1,217,780 4,187,855
1949.. 796,138 15 p.c. = 225,006 571,138 4,758,993
t Includes set additions to reserve for unexpired risks.
Too much attention need not be paid to
the contraction of £197,914 in last term’s
profit figure and the reduction of
£1,217,780 in reserves. Both are the result
of appreciation of the N.Z. pound to
par with sterling upon income and the
book-value of assets held abroad —the
accounts are presented in N.Z. currency,
and about four-fifths of the business is
done outside the Dominion in Australia,
Canada, U.S., U.K., Africa, Middle East,
India, Pakistan, Eastern Asia and the
Argentine.
Actually there was a healthy expansion
of the business, due to a widening geo-
graphical spread, growth of inventories
and rise in values, etc. And the cautious
board considered the position and out-
look good enough to lift the div. from
12£ p.c. to 15 p.c., which is now worth
18.6 p.c. in Australian currency after
allowing for exchange. Net premium in-
come (down £371,556) showed an in-
crease of oyer £366,000 on a comparable
basis:
Loss Expenaa
Net Rate. Rate.
Premiums. Losses. Expenses, p.c. p.c.
£N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z.
1939.. 1,405,787 910,489 377,632 64.8 26.8
1942. . 2,079,841 1,140,948 647,966 54.8 32.1
1943. . 2,412,183 1,338,808 622,039 55.5 25.8
1944. . 2,522,086 1,247,031 926,199 49.4 36.7
1945.. 2,348,238 1,273,796 865,175 54.2 36.2
1946. . 2,398,939 1,348,909 786,477 56.0 82.8
1947. , 3,162,310 1,601,098 822,584 50.6 26.0
1948. . 4,889,856 2,746,296 888,191 62.6 20.2
1949. . 4,018,800 2,344,464 1,069,525 58.8 26.6
The growth of £6 Bs. p.c. in the expense
ratio was due partly to expansion and
partly to the rise in costs generally. There
was a pleasing drop of £4 6s. p.c. in the
loss rate, over which the management has
little direct control.
The gross underwriting surplus was
£604,311, and interest and rents turned in
£191,827 net, making total profit from
all sources £796,138. But that was before
allowing for unexpired risks, which on
the usually-accepted 40 p.c. basis would
reduce the underwriting surplus to
£457,689 and the net profit from all
sources to £649,516, or 43.3 p.c. on
capital as against 33.5 p.c. and 47.1 p.c.
for the two preceding terms, when £SIOO
was worth £N.Z, 124. Since the £1,500,000
of capital has the support and protection
of £4,758,993 of visible reserves, the
£649,516 of profit was only 10.3 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds.
As boom conditions fade into the back-
ground, losses and exes, can be expected
to make off with a greater proportion of
premium income, which is likely
to contract a little. The Dominion’s
Socialist Government made workers’-
compensation insurance in N.Z. a State
monopoly since April last; but this is
not likely to seriously affect this big N.Z.
co.’s net earnings. Experience in other
parts of the world shows that nationalisa-
tion of insurance is a retrograde step,
giving the insured less efficient service at
greater cost.
The solid protection for policyholders
and shareholders is seen in the following
comparison of balance-sheet figures;
1945, 1947. 1948. 1949.
£N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z. £N.Z.
Paid capital 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Liabilities.. 1,888,691 1,483,186 1,730,255 1,703,051
Public securi-
ties .. 4,653,014 4,397,963 4,084,068 3,773,547
Mortgages..' 10,031 83,829 214,704 206,456
Shares, etc. 599,731 1,092,780 1,640,167 1,676,798
Freeholds .. 622,985 707,213 780,665 734,861
Agency bal-
ances and
cash .. 881,505 1,412,983 1,803,009 1,720,382
The contraction of various items last term
further reflects adjustments connected with
the alteration of the exchange rate. This
does not affect the actual strength of the
co. as an underwriter. Broadly speaking,
funds held in various countries are more
than sufficient to cover risks accepted in
the areas concerned.
The lift in the div, fitted in pretty well
with anticipations of the sharemarket,
which is prepared to wait for further
benefits. On Sydney ’Change the pound
ords., which fetched 965. 6d. about 10
months ago, fluctuated between 115 s. and
113 s. 6d. since the beginning of 1949. At
the current figure of 1155., cum 2s. final
div,, (he return is 3.3 p.c, on a 15 p.c.
div. basis, after allowing for exchange.
Meggitt, Ltd.
, Dividend*— >,
■ Pref.*
May, Profit. 10 p.c. Ordinaries. Deficit.!
£ £ £
1940.. 40,821 4900 10 p.c. =i 32,737 33,232
1941.. 39,788 4000 10 „ ,i 32,737 30,181
1942.. 29,887 8100 7$ „ „ 25,371 28,765
1943.. 30.859 8100 7} „ „ 25,371 26,377
1944.. 31,242 3100 79 „ „ 25,871 23,608
1945.. 81,660 3100 7f „ „i 25,871 20,419
1946.. 33,468 3100 7f „ „ 25,371 15,422
1947.. 34,018 8100 7J „ „ 25,371 9,875
1948.. 40,769 4000 10 „ „ 82,787 5,843
Reserves.
1949.. 46,192 4000 10 „ „ 32,737 3,612
•Subject to N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act from
October 1, 1931.
! After deducting goodwill, £115,748.
This well-handled co. —biggest thing of
its kind in the Commonwealth —turns out
linseed cake and nuts and linseed oil
from factories at Sydney, Melbourne and
Adelaide. The cake, which increases the
supply of milk and enriches the butter-
fats, is sought by dairyfarmers, especially
during the dry months; there is a ready
market for the nuts in the pastoral in-
dustry because they improve the growth
of wool, fat lambs, mutton and beef;
and the oil, a ton of which results from
every two tons of stock food produced,
is mostly taken by the now-hungry paint-
and lino.-manufacturing industries.
The seed, chief raw material, used to
come from S. America and India, but
owing to exchange and other difficulties
India has been the main source of supply
for the last decade, and is likely to re-
main so for some time. In the face of
many difficulties which have beset the
trade, there has been a steady improve-
ment in net earnings over the last four
years. Failure of the Indian linseed crop
resulted in the co.’s mills being closed
down as manufacturing units during the
1947 term, when activities were confined
to processing and packing imported oil,
and conditions in this respect didn’t
im Drove greatly during the 1948 term
either. Meanwhile, sales of stock-food
were severely restricted.
Last term seed came forward progres-
sively in better quantity, and the mills
got going again, though they are operat-
ing much below capacity. Still, turnover
increased sufficiently to absorb the rise
in costs and enable the co. to show £5423
more profit. That was after allowing
£20,948 (up £5316) for depreciation, plus
£15,000 “toward meeting the increase in
contemplated replacement costs,” and
whatever was considered necessary for
taxation and other contingencies. The
£46,149 of profit claimed covered full
pref. requirements (£4000) and 12.9 p.c. on
the £327,369 of ord. capital, compared
with 11.2, 9.1, 9, 8.4, 8.3 apd 8.2 p.c. back
to 1943. So the 10 p.c. distribution, of
which 2\ p.c. is labelled bonus, was re-
peated, and the £9455 that was left lifted
the layby £3612 in excess of goodwill
(£115,748), not treated as an asset herein.
The co. still has an overflowing order-
book, and its less immediate prospects
are as encouraging as anything of the
kind can be in the face of impending
changes in the economic climate; plant
is efficient, the management has demon-
strated its ability to adapt the business
to altered conditions, and, in co-operation
with the Flax Growers Association, the
co. is endeavoring to make Australia in-
dependent of imported seed. More than
30,000 acres should be under crop in five
States this year, and, after allowing for
reseeding, a surplus for milling is ex-
pected.
Ihe financial position improved:
1939. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £367,369 £367,369 £367,369 £367,369
Sndy. creditors 64,875 .300,033 730,312 564,560
Overdraft .. 13,147 184,087 272,618
Staff fund .. 24,000 24,000 24,000
Deprec. reserve 64,689 181,575 190,919 232,106
Premises .. 85,988 112,504 112,675 118,264
Plant,. .. 129,890 249,904 250,980 255,124
Stocks .. 134,546 289,860 883,365 725,458
Book debts .. 57,800 33,574 146,714 219,209
Gash, etc. .. 88,356 241,495 175,561 168,710
Goodwill .. 115,748 115,748 115,748 115,748
The drops of £165,752 in the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors and of £107,907
in stocks, together with the addition of
£72,495 to debtors’ balances, reflect the
improvement in seed supply and trading.
Growth in the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£252,199) was £34,911.
Since the beginning of 1949 the ords.,
covered by 20s. 3d. iq net tangibles, have
fluctuated between 395. and 335, in the
market. They now stand at 355., giving
a return of 5.7 p.c, on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The well-protected prefs. seldom appear
on ’Change.
Bennett and Fisher, Ltd. (Adelaide)
/—■ Dividends —^
Prefs. To Re-
June, Profit. 5 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£/ £» £ £ £
1940.. 29,107 15,000 3 p.c. = 9,000 5,102 2,421
1941. . 24,028 16,000 3 „ „ 9,000 28 2,393
1942.. 20,848 15,000 2J „ „ 6,750 3,295
1943.. 24,059 15,000 3 „ „ 9,000 59 3,236
1944. . 24,138 15,000 3 „ „ 9,000 138 3,098
1945.. 24,868 15,000 8* „ „ 9,750 118 2,980
1946.. 24,865 15,000 3* „ „ 9,750 115 2,865
Reserves.
1947.. 34,362 15,000 4i „ ~ 12,760 6,612 3,747
7i p.c.
1948.. 67,447 22,500 7$ „ ~22,500 22,447 26,194
1949.. 71,018 22,500 74 „ ~ 22,500 26,013 52,207
The pastoral industry in Australia has
just experienced two of the best years
in its history. Above-average seasonal
conditions increased the quantity and
quality of wool, fat lambs and cattle,
while prices for the staple soared to
unprecedented levels and figures for live-
stock were very high, Australia’s wool
cheque for 1948-49 was £194,589,170, or
£39,014,277 more than for the previous
year, the average price per pound (greasy
and scoured combined) being 48.49 d., up
21.3 p.p.
All this and other things, including a
marked expansion of merchandising
activities (helped by new agencies), sent
earnings and profits of this Adelaide co.,
which operates mainly in the s.-e, comer
of South Australia, up with a rush. For
the last two years net earnings averaged
£69,230, compared with an average of
£25,296 for the preceding eight years.
After allowing for depreciation (£7080)
and taxation (£47,800), last term’s profit
(up £3566) was 11.8 p.c. on capital (pref.
and ord. combined) as against 11.2, 5.7,
4.1, 4.1 and 4 p.c, back to 1944. The div.
was kept at an all-round 7\ p.c,, making
an average for the ords, of 3.5 p.c, over
the last 13 years. The seven years be-
fore that were dry ones, slump having
frozen some of the advances, and pay-
ments to the prefs. fell into arrears.
The £600,000 of capital is one half
pref. and the other half ord. The prefs.
(150,000 A’s and a like number of B’s)
used to carry a cumulative p.c., which
was reduced to 4 p.c. in 1932, with the
right to another 1 p.c. when the ords. got
up to 5 p.c., and the further right to
advance with the ords. beyond that point
to the original contract rate, and to share
in future bonus issues, if any.
For the investor the question is whether
the all-round 7 i p.c. div. is likely to be
maintained. The answer lies in what will
happen in connection with prices, seasons
and costs. The immediate outlook is for
another good season, and costs, a stub-
born item, are still rising. Prices are the
indefinite factor at the moment. For
most commodities the trend everywhere
is toward disappearance of the post-war
sellers’ market and an easing of
World demand for wool, however, con-
tinues to run ahead of current production,
and there is little threat from the stock
position, which suggests that any early
drop in the price of the staple is not likely
to be catastrophic. On a clean cost basis,
Australian 64’s averaged 86d. a pound in
London in June last as against IOOd, a
year earlier, a drop of 14 p.c.
Allowing for this and other things, in-
cluding the fact that the less immediate
future bristles with difficulties and un-
certainties, the market prices the co.’s f.-p.
£1 ords. at 21s. 3d, and the prefs. at
245. On the basis of last term’s distri-
bution, the return at these figures is 7
p.c. ords. and 6.2 p.c. prefs., or 5,6 p.c.
and 5 p.c. respectively on a 6 p.c. div,
basis. Net tangible cover is £4 6s. lid.
A’s, £3 6s. lid. B’s and 235. 6d. ords.
Financially the co. is better shod than
at any time since it amalgamated the
Cheadle Grace and Bennett and Fisher
businesses in 1919:
1945. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £600,000 £600,000 £600,000 £600,000
Sundry creditors,
etc. .. 141,329 257,763 577,632 532,608
Tax reserve.. 17,500 24,025 48,250 47,800
Freehold, etc. 197,817 172,084 157,609 155,872
. Stocks & plant 42,531 61,362 84,023 116,751
Advances . . 332,571 574,652 735,357 746,272
Cash, etc. . . 196,431 93,948 305,089 243,720
Goodwill .. 27,000 27,000 27,000 27,000
To clip £45,024 off the outside debt, etc.,
and add £32,728 to stock and plant and
£10,915 to advances, cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £61,369 last term. The more-
or-less liquid surplus was £526,335, up
£27,748.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 42,530 9£p.c.= 42,152 378 174,486
1941.. 39,686 10 „ „ 44,370 169,801
1942.. 27,529 8i„ „ 37,715 159,615
1943.. 25,169 8 „ „ 35,496 149,288
1944.. 26,692 7 „ „ 31,059 144,921
1945.. 26,824 6 „ „ 26,622 202 145,123
1946.. 27,015 6 „ „ 26,622 393 145,516
1947.. .26,735 6 „ „ 26,622 113 145,629
1948.. 12,258 6 „ „ 26,622 131,265
1949.. 27,330 6 „ „ 26,622 708 131,973
Like other shipowners, this co., whose
fleet has been poking in and out of the
river ports and harbors on the fertile
N S. Wales North Coast for the last
61 years, is now groping in the twilight
of a half-free-half-controlled market.
Net earning-power and the efficiency
(judged on pre-war standard) of the ser-
vice have been impaired by the growth
of Government controls and interference
in the industry, by Communist-fanned
industrial troubles and go-slow tactics on
the waterfront, and by the inevitable
rapid growth of operating and other costs,
which are still rising. For the eight
years to the close of last accounts profits
averaged £24,944, or 5.6 p.c, on capital,
compared with an average of £40,389, or
9.1 p.c. on capital, for the six years be-
fore that. And to meet divs, averaging
6.7 p.c. over the last eight years, reserves
were drawn upon for £37,828 net.
The co.’s ships, which had passed to
Government control during the war,
were mostly derequisitioned and, after
reconditioning, handed back during the
last quarter of 1947; but freight and
other charges remained controlled. The
charter fees were insufficient to cover the
growing cost of maintenance, repairs and
depreciation and still leave an adequate
net return on actual capital involved.
Only by scaling down the allowance for
depreciation—£lo,ooo last term as against
£33,389 on a slightly larger fleet in 1938
—has it been possible to meet the increase
in costs and pay a moderate rate of divi-
dend.
The collapse of profits in 1947 fol-
lowed derequisitioning of the fleet—now
four motor-vessels and five steamers —
mounting costs and relatively low freight
and other charges. Freight rates have since
been increased, and, with the help of pay-
ments (amount not stated) in final adjust- j
ment of charter fees, last term’s net
earnings more than doubled, Most of the
extra charter money was swallowed by
heavy expenditure on overhaul of one of
the vessels. The £27,330 (up £15,072)
of profit was only £7OB more than the


v THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEOBOB AND HUNTEB STBEETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman). F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. YICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
ẃ
DAVIES & CODLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Mark?. — Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
#//gr
jC/h'nder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Better for School Books
xe-32.i7.Bitedf ia • ■
They Wand the rough
and tumble. They’re lighter
and easier to carry.
Ask first for
SCHOOL CASES
MAOFer
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
m
MEMORISE
WITH EASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual.
Send stamp ]or booklet.
Bet. W. Rowlands
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E. 8, Vic.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription., 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
FONDE
EN 1724
RIMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom before, if ever,
imported into Australia. Obtainable at most retailers.
BOTTLES, 36/9 HALF BOTTLES, 18/9
MINIATURES, 2/3
WHO GETS THE MOHEY
OUT OF LIFE ASSURAHCE ?
When you have a policy with one of the
privately controlled Life Assurance Offices
in Australia, you enjoy benefits which other-
wise would be Impossible. Your future is
protected; you receive bonuses ... the
“plus” in your policy . . . and you make pro-
vision for your dependents should you die.
No other form of saving provides such com-
prehensive benefits . . . and nowhere else do
Life Assurance Offices give better benefits
than in Australia. That is because the manage-
ment cost of Australia’s independent life
offices is as low as any in the world.
THREE MILLION POLICYHOLDERS . ..
SEVEN AND A HALF MILLION AUSTRALIANS ...
LIFE ASSURANCE
BENEFIT BY
ISSUED BY THE
LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
6 p.c. div. called for. A further
lift in freight rates and recent
return of the motor-vessel
Wyrallah, which had been on
service with the Navy, augured
well for a little improvement in
the current term’s earnings, until
the coal strike dislocated the
whole economy and reduced the
running time and volume of
cargo carried by the fleet. Since
it will take some time after the
strike ends for a full flow of
trade to develop, appearances
are that the co. will be fortunate
if it earns sufficient profit during
the current term to cover a 6
p.c. div.
A cautious and perplexed
market prices the f.-p. pound
shares, covered by 255. lid. in
net tangibles, at 21s. as against
255. early in 1949 and a high of
335. 6d. in 1948. The return at
21s. i§ 5.7 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div.
Two small wooden vessels,
which could no longer be profit-
ably employed, were sold last
term, and the profit passed to
inner reserves:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital £443,700 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities* 68,092 67,710 82,581
Ships .. 112,245 102,245 68,245
Freeholds,
etc. ~ 9,801 8,551 8,100
Liquids .. 548,686 545,190 608,530
* Including tax provision.
The book-value of the fleet
dropped by £34,000 and £14,871
was added to outside liabilities
(including provision for taxa-
tion), while liquids (they include
£523,248 of Government securi-
ties) increased by £63,340. The
more -or - less liquid surplus
(£525,949, up £48,469) was equal
to 235. §d. a share. The fleet is
reported in good order and con-
dition.
Takuapa Valley Tin Dredging
The co. repossessed its Tak-
uapa property (Siam) in Oct.,
1947. No, I dredge reached the
operating face in Feb., 1948,
and No. 2 a month later. Per-
formances to Dec. 31, 1948,
were as follows:
Dredged Recovery Wkg. Wkg.
c.y. tons costs profit
’OOO. t.o. c.y. c.y.
No. 1 . 1,395 153.83 6.28 d. l.Old.
No. 2 . 1,455 258.44 5.57 d. 6.04 d.
2,850 412.27 5.92 d. 3.58 d.
Both machines passed through
a lot of old tailings, hence the
low recovery—o.2slb. per c.y.
No. 1 and 0.41 b. per c.y. No. 2.
Costs were double the 1940
figure. Tin sold at £5554 a ton
at Straits smelters; average net
price (after deducting duty, etc.)
received by the co. for ore was
£5273.4 a ton.
Profit was £39,091, or 15.6
p.c. on the £250,000 of capital.
In addition, £37,659 was received
for ore won during the occupa-
tion, plus £419 surplus from the
Buffer Pool, from which a 5 p.c.
div. was paid in November last.
Two further divs. of 6d. per £1
share have been paid since, and
another 6d. is to go out on Aug.
31. Quarterly distributions of
6d. a share will call for £25,000
р. which should be a comfort-
able matter while costs and the
price of tin remain as they are.
The dredges, still in poor
ground, should soon be handling
better values. There is still
10,270,000 c.y. of mostly 4oz. to
6oz. dirt in the Takuapa pro-
perty, and a further 41,915,000
с. of which over 83 p.c.
averages 8.40 z. to. per yard, has
been applied for under mining
lease—surface rights are already
held.
When the books closed cur-
rent assets totalled £117,572, and
current liabilities £67,098, of
which £24,958 was a Govern-
ment loan. Co.’s claims for com-
pensation amount to £198,000.
Doubtful of the future price
of tin, the market (Sydney)
prices the f,-p. £1 shares at 235.
each.
For the year to March 31 last
operations of Morning Star
(G.M.A.), at Woods Point
(Vic.), disclosed some high-
grade ore in a new lens
on the Achilles floor (No. 16
level), and some rich specimen
stuff on the Sterling floor (No.
17 level). The 2400-ton-a-month
mill treated 17,028 tons o*f
18.14dwt. (up 5.5dwt.) ore for
15,441 fine oz. gold, a recovery
of 92 p.c. The profit was
£74,775 (up £40,569) or 93.4 p.c.
on capital, and a 2s. 3d. div.
(Is. 6d. in the previous term)
took £50,000, and another 6d. a
share has been sent out since
the close of accounts. Mining
and milling costs were 88.55.
(up 18.75.) a ton. And £9870
(11.65. a ton) was spent on de-
velopment and drilling. Ore
reserves are estimated at 47,000
tons, averaging about 16dwt.
Boring to 1400 ft. below the
1800 ft. level has revealed con-
tinuation of the dyke with
auriferous formations to bot-
tom of the bore. Main shaft
is down 1950 ft. Testing of
the Loch Fyne mine, Matlock
(Vic.), over which the co.’s
option has been extended until
June 30, 1951, is to begin be-
fore 1949 runs out. Co.’s f.-p.
4s. shares fetch 265., or there-
abouts, in the market.


Low cost Crude Oil operation
for MEDIUM power users!
Here’s the pre-war famous Lanz “L”
Model bringing once more amazing
economy of crude oil operation in a
25 H.P. Tractor suitable for every
medium power need. With only 8
main moving parts in its simple,
single-cylinder, slow-moving engine,
25 H.P. LANZ cuts wear and main-
tenance to the barest minimum and
can actually save you as much as
£1,500 in 10 years on the running costs
of any other type of tractor. A saving
which more than refunds the capital
invested in your new Lanz Tractor.
There is a K.L. Bulldog or Lanz Crude
Oil Tractor in the range of 25, 35 and
40 h.p. models to ideally suit the
requirements of your farm—large or
small. See your local Bulldog Agent.
Simplest , Strongest , Most Economical
Tractors—Ever Built I
KJ.&II/LANZ
BULLDOG
25, 35 & 40 H.P. MODELS
OuuteOU TRACTORS
K. L
Phone L. 2191
Distributors In Queensland:
TRACTOR SALES
121 BRUNSWICK STREET. THE VALLEY.
PTY. LTD.,
TELEGRAME : “ KELTRACTOR"
KL2O3
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A . MAGNET, Chairman; F. W, Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman: Alfred 8. White. »
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone; B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Communists and Blair Athol
An echo or shadow or some-
thing of the coal strike has
begun to bother a lot of Queens-
landers, and they’re uneasily
asking themselves just how
much the Communist leaders of
the Miners’ Federation have
had to do with the more-or-less
evident failure of the great Blair
Athol opencut scheme. A little
over two years ago this scheme
was full of promise. A big
British company was to spend
about £2O million on develop-
ment of the coalfield, building
railways, towns, a port, colliers
to carry the coal and so forth.
Premier Hanlon spoke of it in
glowing terms, the Press played
it up, film companies sent
cameras to the scene and radio-
stations ran sessions about it.
All Queensland and half Aus-
tralia were led to believe that a
sort of coal El Dorado was in
sight. Now it has a striking
resemblance to a burst bubble.
Rifts in its iridescent skin be-
came obvious towards the end
of 1948, and in the Queensland
Parliament and outside of it a
lot of curious persons made
themselves evident. Premier
Hanlon went off to London to
the Empire Parliamentary Con-
ference. When he came back
he was full of explanations. He
had met “representatives” of the
British company [Electric Supply
Corporation (Overseas) Ltd.] in
London and they had told him
that after the British Govern-
ment nationalised British elec-
tricity undertakings E.S.C., Ltd.,
“found itself without the re-
sources which it had expected
would be available to begin the
development of the Blair Athol
project.” v
There followed sundry doings,
of which the following is a sum-
mary ;
E.S.C. would enter into an agree-
ment with Power and Traction
Finance Co., Ltd., whereby “the
technical and financial resources” of
P. and T.F. and its associates would
be applied “to the next stage of the
investigations.” E.S.C. would assign
its rights and obligations to a com-
pany to be registered in Queensland;
P. and T.F. agreed to this. P. and
T.F. was formed by five companies—
Sir William Arrol and Co., Glasgow,
engineers, crane- and bridge-builders,
John Brown and Co., Ltd., ship-
builders and engineers, Cammed,
Laird and Co., Ltd., ditto, English
Electric Co., Ltd., electrical and
mechanical engineers and contractors,
and Prudential Assurance Co., Ltd.
Mr. Hanlon said P. and T.F. was
formed to concentrate the experience
and financial power of those con-
cerns on the development and execu-
tion of large enterprises. Associated
with it is Lazard Bros, and Co., Ltd.,
bankers. P. and T.F. brought Powell
Duffryn Technical Services, Ltd., and
Sir A. Gibb and Partners in as con-
sultants to advise it on costs and
other aspects of producing (a)
million tons a year, and alternatively
( b ) 61-7 million tons a year. Later,
Central Queensland Coal Develop-
ment Go., Ltd., was registered with
authorised capital £250,000 and issued
capital £50,000, E.S.C. to be allotted
the issued share capital and P. and
T.F. to have the option of acquiring
capital if its consultants should re-
port favorably. The consultants were
investigating at that time (15/3/’49),
and Mr. Hanlon expected to get a
report in July.
Before he got any report the
N.S.W. coalminers were led into
a criminal strike by their Com-
munist leaders, whereupon the
aforementioned echo or shadow
appeared. Faced with the strike,
the Prime Minister and Premier
McGirr began talking about
opencut mining, and it came out
that somewhere along the line
of coal-awards and strikes and
threats and promises of the last
two or three years some sort of
agreement came into being re-
serving opencut mining in
N.S.W. and Queensland to mem-
bers of the Communist-led
Miners’ Federation —the body
that said it wouldn’t allow open-
“I’m sick of fivers —wish they'd put us on to tenners
for a change .”
cut mining if it meant reducing
deep-coal mining.
There is some secret history
behind this which the public
ought to know. Premier Play-
ford had to fight it in order to
get his Leigh Creek opencut
mine working with A.W.U.
labor; so did Victoria at Yal-
lourn. It led to the strike over
the Kemeira tunnel and to alle-
gations of “body-snatching”
between A.W.U. and coalmining
unions. A couple of years ago
there was a good deal of visit-
ing between Premier Hanlon,
Prime Minister Chifley and Boss
Millar, Communist head of the
Queensland coalies, and any-
body is justified in assuming that
out of it arose an agreement
that Queensland opencuts would
be worked by the Communist-
led C.M.U. At any rate C. Gi
Fallon, Queensland secretary of
the A.W.U. and a power in
Queensland “Labor” politics,
has been saying that the A.W.U.
has a “perfect legal right to
claim this work.”
When the first Blair Athol
announcements were made it
was believed by most people
interested that the coal would
be worked by A.W.U. men. Did
the E.S.C. <believe that? Did the
Communists believe it and,
quickly realising that an A.W.U.-
worked Blair Athol could break
down their conspiracy to ruin
the Australian economy, bluffed
or cajoled Messrs. Chifley and
Hanlon into an agreement mak-
ing it a Miners’ Federation pre-
serve? Who, or what, denies
the A.W.U. right to work
Queensland opencuts? Finally,
are those English consultants
“investigating” this as well as
other aspects and is fear of
Communist control the real rea-
son why the English companies
have shied off Blair Athol? It’s
time somebody asked Mr. Han-
lon about all this.
Her© and There /
S. M. Bruce now gives his
lordly arrows extra polish, but
they’re still sharp enough. Sur-
veying the British scene in Lon-
don the other day, he took par-
ticular aim at nationalised coal
as he sees it retreating headlong
from first principles. The justi-
fication for State-owpership, he
recalled, was that in Britain this
industry needed vast capital ex-
penditure to regain efficiency.
Such outlay would only become
remunerative over a period of
years. Private capital (the
argument ran) could not have
faced the inevitable annual losses
in the early stages, and would
have raised coal prices to the
detriment of British industry. So
the Coal Board marched in:
For the first year of its operation
(1947) the Board made a loss of over
£23 million. For the second year
(1948) it made a profit of £1,700,000.
What were the reasons for this
somewhat dramatic change and how
was. it brought about? In seeking the
reasons, it is impossible to ignore
the political factor. When the ac-
counts of 1947 were published, the
opponents of nationalisation seized
on the heavy loss and pointed to it
as an example of what happened
under Government ownership.
Those in favor of nationalisation
were naturally disturbed at this
somewhat effective propaganda wea-
pon and strong pressure was exer-
cised for action to render it ineffec-
tive.
I invite your attention to the form
it took.
It was to raise the price of coal,
with repercussions upon the costs of
production throughout industry —not
least in respect to transport. But
transport has also been nationalised-
We are rapidly approaching the
moment when the same method of
raising prices to meet increased costs
will be followed in transport as in
coal.
Should we commit the incredible
folly of nationalising iron and steel,
the same procedure in due course
will be followed. What hope is there
for British industry, in the new com-
petitive world, with steadily rising
prices of its three most basic require-
ments —coal, transport, iron and
steel?
Today, through the action of the
board in raising the price of coal at
the commencement of its operations,
nationalisation has done the very
thing if was embarked upon to avoid.
The British tale of economics
Versus politics has cautionary
value for Australia. Elsewhere
in his address Viscount Bruce
took the reverse action of draw-
ing a moral for present-day Eng-
land from the Australian experi-
ence in 1929: —
As Prime Minister of Australia 1
was faced with precisely the same
position that faces the Government
of Britain today. By 1929, as a
result pf many years of prosperity,
Australia had built her social services
to a more advanced state than any
country in the world. With the onset
of the economic depression it was
clear that expenditure had to be cut.
It was equally clear that the only
method was by the curtailment of the
social services.
When I attempted to obtain the
powers required 1 was defeated in
Parliament and subsequently in the
country. Within 12 months of my
defeat the Labor Government which
succeeded me was forced to bring
down a plan for a drastic reduction
of expenditure, so far as I know
without parallel in any country.
Included in this plan was an overall
cut by 20 per cent, in the social
services—not even old-age, widows’,
invalid and soldiers’ pensions, in
respect to which we must all have a
very great sympathy, being exempted.
Is not the position in Britain to-
day exactly the same as the one we
faced in Australia in 1929? Had
Australia faced the issue earlier the
remedy would have been far less
drastic.
The action I suggest that should
be taken is that the Government
should declare to the people that our
social development has gone beyond
what our economy can sustain.
His diplomatic lordship re-
frained from tendering the same
advice to present-day Canberra.
MaorilancFs Labor Daily
In its first three years Maori-
land’s “Labor” daily, the
“Southern Cross,” ran up losses
of well over £131,284, which was
the debit to Dec. 31 last. Its
owner, N.Z. Labor Newspapers,
Ltd., Wellington, claims “con-
siderable improvement” in the
current year, but there’s, no sign
that it is approaching the break-
even point yet.
Last year £34,913 went down
the drain, against £40,749 in
1947 and £36,804 in the first 10
months. Losses to the latest
square-up averaged £845 a week.
Capital put up by then was
£189,342, and the co. wanted an-
other £60,000-odd to reach its
original goal of £250,000. Re-
sults haven’t helped to draw
funds, although the directors, ali
leading “Labor”-party officials,
with “never-say-die” grit, con-
tend that, given enough funds,
there shouldn’t be any doubt
about the ultimate success of the
“Southern Cross.” The director-
ate is probably the largest of
any M.L. co., but only two of
the 14 on the board are fortified
by printing and publishing ex-
perience.
Last year’s claim that finances
were showing a turn for the
better didn’t have much support
in results, and the question now
seems to be —How much longer
can the drift go on? Perhaps
only as long as “Labor” can get
enough accommodation from
the State-owned Bank of N.Z.
or can plug up the holes in the
balance-sheet by passing the hat
around the unions for more
cash.


t:he
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, ifnprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee - ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will bo
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet. ,
BIRECTORS:
Janies Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T, W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER; L. S. Parker SECRETARY: B. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W . Parliament.
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Tel.; BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BP2-49
A TRUE STORY
\\
Engineers, Accountant co-operate
and expand business!
Many small businesses can-
not employ a full-time book-
keeper. This was the posi-
tion of a young Chattered
Accountant who recently ap-
proached the District Em-
ployment Officer for the ser-
vices of a part-time Female
Book-keeper. The Employ-
ment Officer contacted a num-
ber of other employers with
a view to finding one who
would be willing to share the
services of a full-time book-
keeper with the Accountant.
Eventually a small engineer-
ing firm showed interest, and
a book-keeper was engaged to
undertake the dual responsi-
bility. Subsequently, the firm
of engineers engaged the Char-
tered Accountant to prepare
yearly audit and income tax
returns etc. The Chartered
Accountant, through his busi-
ness associates, was able to
place additional work with
the engineering firm. Finally
the Engineers took over the
book-keeper on a full-time
basis, and the Chartered
Accountant, whose business
had also expanded, was able
to employ full-time another
book-keeper, with higher
qualifications, also secured
through the District Employ-
ment Office. This true story,
one of thousands of examples
recorded in the official files,
illustrates the active interest
taken by Employment Officers
in the needs of employers, in
all types of business, and of
employees, whatever their age,
experience or qualifications.
It is a free service, available
without charge or obligation,
at any branch or district office.
COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
Offices throughout Australia
Consult Your Telephone
Directory
CE577.62.79
be
ff
I'A' Peoples Rank
In the year 1829 the Sydney "Monitor news-
paper, referring to tlie Bank of New South Wales,
which had been established in 1817 under Governor
Lachlan Macquarie, wrote:—
" Macquarie’s Bank is supported by the people,
te., by the farmers, merchants, shopkeepers,
mariners, soap-boilers, tanners, butchers, bakers,
gardeners, cedar-gatherers and craft builders of the
colony. It is emphatically, therefore, the people’s
bank.”
To-day, with a proud record of continuous
service to the people of Australia for over 130
years, the “Wales” is still “emphatically the
people’s bank.” The people’s appreciation of the
services rendered by the Bank and of its efficiency
and business methods is shown by the fact that
deposits now exceed £230 million in Australia alone.
1
The traditions which have
enabled the “Wales” to retain
the loyalty of its several hundred
thousand customers are being
maintained to-day.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
Incorporated in New Sotrth Wales with limited (lability
'h.
r>^
•* Ldiil
1
TOOTH'S SHEAF STOUT
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO. LIIvtITED
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
The heavy bombardment be-
tween Government and Opposi-
tion speakers that broke out as
soon as the Tories published
their long-awaited statement of
policy has brought to buzzing
life that old imponderable
rumor, the date of the next
general election. Although
bound to take place by July of
next year, it is widely believed
that the Government will go to
the country before Christmas —
perhaps even soon after Parlia-
ment reassembles in October,
Imaginative reasoning, wild
conjecture and a considerable
amount of wishful thinking all
have their place in this guessing
game. The thought of a fresh
start is an encouraging one to
many. There is also much im-
patience and irritation on the
part of business and profes-
sional men, who wish that the
politicians would cease their
wrangling and tactical manoeu-
vring and get on with running
the country.
The Tory pamphlet, “The
Right Road for Britain,” has a
faint milk-and-watery flavor
that has proved to be somewhat
disappointing to the large body
of people who, in the first in-
stance, want nothing more than
a convincing alternative to
Socialism. For, in seeking to
avoid hurting the feelings of the
susceptible or to provide loop-
holes for Socialist speakers, the
statement gives gefttle promin-
ence to all that is desirable
while tacitly passing over the
pressing difficulties with which
it may later have to cope. It
seeks to reduce taxation, but
offers more “free” benefits. The
Welfare State is to stay, as are
food - rationing, price - controls
and, presumably, subsidies.
There is to be more private
building, with taxation conces-
sions to property-owhers.
The social services are to be
maintained, with, in fact, added
benefits. No suggestion is made
that these services should first
be scaled down until they are
within the nation’s means and
then be augmented as the coun-
try moves to prosperity.
Prepared by the Conservative
moderate group, under the direc-
tion of Mr. R. A. Butler and
expertly “subbed” by Mr.
Churchill, the pamphlet is based
upon the findings of 600 discus-
sion-groups over a period of
four years, and has the backing
of the Liberal-National party.
There are other, more convinc-
ing, aspects that should appeal
to many good citizens who, up
to the present, have not seen fit
to outgrow their inherent mis-
trust of Toryism. The Conser-
vatives repudiate emphatically
the suggestion of a permanent
pool of unemployed. They
promise to put a stop to further
nationalisation and to make
more efficient those industries
which are already floundering
under bureaucracy.
The implication behind the
statement is perhaps more im-
portant than its content, for the
virtue of self-help, with extra
pay for extra effort, is the key-
note of the message. To dis-
prove the easy-sounding Social-
ist theme of greater comfort for
less work is at least one step in
the direction of hard sense.
Dock-strike Muddle
On the face of it, the 15,000
London dockers, whose strike
lasted 24 days, returned to work
defiant, self-satisfied and unre-
pentant. Thus ended, in the
words of one member of the un-
official strike committee, “one
of the greatest chapters in
working-class history.” “Un-
shaken in their determina-
tion to uphold the principles of
trade-unionism,” the men have
submitted again to the “reac-
tionary forces lined up against
them” on condition that there
shall be no victimisation, that
no further “lock-outs” shall be
tolerated, that they shall have
holidays with pay to function
immediately and that they shall
have more effective representa-
tion on the Dock Labor Board.
Whatever has been said about
the men themselves, their war
service, their history, their root
discontent, their individual good
citizenship and their harmless
private lives, the impression of
them as a body is one of trucu-
lence, irresponsibility and wilful
stubbornness. Their defiant con-
tempt of criticism is matched
only by the widespread disquiet
that their attitude has caused.
Apparently working on the
assumption that the upholding
of any strike is sacred to the
principles of trade-unionism,
the men refused to unload two
Canadian ships involved in a
sordid. Communist-sponsored
dispute. It was, they insisted,
not a strike but a lockout. The
Government seemed powerless
to bring the men to reason, de-
spite the extremity of emergency
regulations. Their own trade-
unions were unable to influence
the dockers, who contemp-
tuously sho u t e d-down the
speakers. In the middle of the
strike an undignified quarrel
broke out between Lord
“Charlie” Ammon, ex-Socialist
M.P. and chairman of the
Dock Labor Board, and the
Prime Minister; and when the
board threatened to be fair but
firm —which seemed to be the
right course of action —the
dockers swung back to the side
of the Government.
Ostensibly the men returned to
work because the Canadian
strike was called off and be-
cause the Communist-tinted
jargon promised them further
anarchy and independence. The
true position in fact is not as
bad as it sounds—although it’s
bad enough—for the men had
already begun to drift back to
work. Some 10,000 men stayed
at their posts. Their neighbors
at Tilbury would have nothing
to do with the strike. Liver-
pool, Southampton and Hull
were unaffected.
The small body of Com-
munists who exploited the
London recalcitrants sought to
make the most of their tac-
tical advantage and save
face. They succeeded. Out of
the conflicting muddle one dis-
turbing fact emerges clearly:
the dockers will stay at work
just as long as it pleases them.
When they have made up their
loss of earnings by working
overtime and after the novelty
of the next concession to be
granted has worn off, it is to be
expected that they will respond
as readily to the promptings of
agitators among them as they
have done three times in the past
year. That these agitators may
be Communists working to a
preconceived plan matters not
at all —except perhaps to the
Communists.


Write now . , . we’ve plenty for mail orders
s
t
i.
o
7
ee
A
handbag- pens
35 ;
BaZZ or nib point . . .
Gilt filigree is all the rage in fashion news we
have taken it a step further with a wonderful idea
for your handbag. Little pens, on detachable chains,
that are gilt filigree capped and studded
with coloured stones. The pen
may be either bail-point
or nib-point.
Ball-point .. . lipstick size. 35/-
Nib-point . . . will not leak in
your bag. Red, blue, wine,
green or brown. 35/-
w
Write to Prouds Limited, Box 1502, G.P.0., Sydney
BABCOCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
° r OSTV'&'*‘
m
r~~
■
m
m
.....
m
TOP—Side view of Babcock-Detrolt
BotoStoker with power dumping
grate.
BOTTOM—Sectional view of Bab-
cock-Detroit BotoStoker.
For Medium and
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
The Babcock-Detroit Roto-
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of coke and
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability in plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies from
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, oil fuel, other mechanical types of
stokers, or any other known firing method, Babcocks
have the experience necessary to advise on the right
equipment most suitable and economical to ybur needs.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
po OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK, N.SJ.
Branch Office* and Agenda* In all State*
—INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
( Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £10,000,000. Established 1835,
N.S.W. Branch; 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
UNCABLED
ADDITIOMS
NATIONALISING TO HALT.
Practically all reports agree
that the nationalising already
established in Britain will re-
main no .matter what the out-
come of next year’s elections.
That, however, would not
apply to nationalising of the
iron-and-steel industry between
now and election-day. Also,
changes expected to be wrought
by a Conservative Government
could make the Socialist brand
of nationalising practically un-
recognisable.
Mr. Churchill has stated:
“All these [social] schemes
were devised and set in motion
.... before the Socialists came
into office. I have worked at
national insurance schemes
almost all my life and am
responsible for several of the
largest measures ever passed
[including National Health In-
surance in 1912]. The main
principles of the new national
health scheme [free medical aid
to everybody] were hammered
out in my National Coalition
Government Thus the be-
nevolent social policies, of which
the Socialists vaunt themselves,
were not conceived by them, but
were only the legacy which they
grasped from a Conservative
House of Commons.”
The Conservatives (a “Col-
lier’s” writer points out) “have
pledged themselves not to re-
peal the nationalisation of the
mines or the railways.” What is
expected—and counted on by
the Conservatives to ensure vic-
tory for them—is that there will
be no additional nationalising
of industry. On this, Mr.
Churchill recently stated:
“Any general application of
nationalisation must be fatal to
trade-unionism as we have
known it in this country as a
characteristically British, practi-
cal and mitigating force. The
nationalisation of steel will be
a precise and definite issue at
the general election, and should
we obtain a majority we shall
immediately repeal, and by every
means in our power reverse, this
pernicious measure.”
“Free medicine,” it is unani-
mously accepted, is in Britain
to stay. As far as it is con-
cerned (says a London corres-
pondent of “U.S. News and
World Report”) the Conserva-
tives recognise that any propo-
sal to drop it would now be
“political suicide.” They will
make their bid on the promise
to wipe out the inefficiency and
red-tape in its administration.
“We started this idea,” Mr.
Churchill has commented, “and
we shall saVe it if we have the
time and power from the abuses
by which it is at present being
overlaid.”
The British Labor side, for
its part, will actually count
largely on its socialising of
medicine for a return to office.
Even Lord Horder, the King’s
physician, who has persistently
attacked the “regimentation of
doctors” as “having produced
a marked lowering of the
standards of British medicine,”
has acknowledged that some
features of the Act have brought
improvements “long overdue.”
He added; “We are not advo-
cating complete repeal. That
would cause a worse mess than
we have now.”
Mr. Eden, deputy-leader of
the Conservative party, has
stated that a Conservative vic-
tory at a general election would
bring to a halt all plans for
nationalisation of industry. Coal
and railways would have to re-
main under State ownership,
“but it does not mean that we
shall not do anything to im-
prove their present operation.
Where it is not practicable to
denationalise we shall decentra-
lise.”
He reiterated the Conserva-
tives’ pledge to repeal nationali-
sation of the iron-and-steel in-
dustry if the Labor Govern-
ment’s measure became law be-
fore the general election.
On Britain’s Crisis.
To overseas comment on the
“dollar crisis” already given on
athese and other Bulletin pages,
some remarks of London ‘‘Eco-
nomist” need to be added.
The “Economist” described
—Washington "Post.”
“A ‘softening’ of Soviet belligerence during recent months is reflected in
the U.S. Congress reluctance to support arms-aid for Western Europe.”
“ANYBODY KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT GIFT DOVES?”
the attempt of Britain’s Social-
ists to put the blame on to an
“American recession” as a
“smokescreen of poison gas,”
and commented:
“The level both of general
demand and of economic activity
in America is still a long way
above any definition of normal
that the world has ever before
known, and if British Socialism
cannot adjust itself to as minor
a quaver as this, then it is too
delicate for the real world.
Labor Members of Parliament
would do well to remember that
their Government would have
been out of office in collapse
and chaos years ago if American
capitalism had not been willing
to subsidise it Nobody [in
Britain] could at this juncture do
his country a worse disservice
than to indulge in this conspiracy
of envy and malice.”
The “Economist” further held
that the defect of Britain’s
economy is high cost of produc-
tion —too high not merely for
the “dollar market” or the over-
seas market generally, but “too
high for the British market it-
self.” It pointed out in support
that, whereas in pre-war times it
cost 39 weeks’ wages to buy the
cheapest English car, it now costs
55 weeks’; the cheapest suit
formerly cost a man five weeks’
work, and now costs seven—
and, it should be added, the
wages are considerably higher.
The paper contended that until
the British Government has the
courage to cut the cost of pro-
duction by reducing wages and
the tax burden, Britain cannot
get out of its present predica-
ment.
Strengthening West.
Though time is still the
essence of the contract, the
Western side, in the view of
“Christian Science Monitor”
military correspondent Captain
Frederick L. Oliver, already
represents a formidable opposi-
tion for a rampant Russia to
face, and is steadily getting
stronger.
Plans to that end reviewed by
the correspondent include the
establishing of ap air-raid-
warning radar-net along a 1500-
mile stretch from Lubeck on the
Baltic Sea to southern Tunisia.
It will cover Holland, Belgium,
part of Western Germany,
Luxembourg, France, Great
Britain, Corsica, Tunisia and a
part of Algeria, and subsequently
will be extended to cover Nor-
way to the north and probably
Italy and Greece to the south, a
line of radar installations
approximately 2500 miles long.
~ „ ~
On the other hand says the
writer, Russia, with its tens of
thousands of miles of frontier,
much of it desolate and unin-
habited, is expected to find it
i m P° ss ible to establish a warn-
m:°f i f l^ I The PO nroceS t o : f
. . Russia 1S ia jbe process or
ranae E attacks
be almost any
f , Soviet terHtnrv
pa « “ G™lf a ° n d *gSS
"u’ ure ® n na ’ „-f •
Spitzbergen, Great Britain,
/j , 6 G nrwav Western
E ’ It , Tunisia Greece
Japan and prot /
~ other areas afford numerous
st r a y locations for air bases.”
Giv g n time t 0 develop the
necessary strength} the Pact
nations “ could mount a land
campaign which would effectu .
aUy and definitely remove the
Soyiet menace t 0 the world,
“Meanwhile a tight sea-
blockade would deny Russia
trade with any other nation,
forcing it to be dependent upon
its own inadequate industrial re-
sources. Air operations would
take their toll of everything sw-
ceptible of being damaged ; by
bombing, either by conventional
means or by atomic bombs.
“The picture of Russia being
pitted against practically the
entire rest of the world is so
bleak that one cannot help but
wonder what day-dream would
impel the Politburo to concliide


Offered by order of the owner
CORNWALL HOTEL, FREEHOLD
LAUNCESTON, TASMANIA
r
POPULAR TOURIST & COMMERCIAL HOTEL
All that well and favourably known property The “Cornwall Hotel,”
situate 39 Cameron Street, Launceston, Tasmania. The land having
an area of 1 rood 36 perches with a frontage of 184 links on to
Cameron Street by a depth of 258 links.
SUBSTANTIALLY BUILT OF BRICK
Containing on the ground floor, large bar, 2 lounges, dining room
30 by 40, private sitting room, office, kitchen and storerooms, 7
bedrooms, bathroom, lavatory accommodation both sexes, and on
the first floor 28 bedrooms and 6 bathrooms.
WILL BE OFFERED FOR SALE BY PUBLIC AUCTION
(Real Estate only)
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1949, by
FREEMAN, DUFF & CO.
148 COLLINS STREET, HOBART
SUBJECT TO PRESENT LEASE expiring 30th June, 1956.
AUCTIONEERS draw special attention to this opportunity for
or anyone wanting a sound hotel business in the near
future, being the class of holding seldom available.
Wm
mm
m
i i
PJD
Q
vto
THE BRAND
WITH A PEDIGREE.
wm
m
Wm
l
I :
mi
m
m
Bt
SELF-SUPPORTING
SPORTS TROUSERS
No Elastic to pucker or perish
ANOTHER DEPENDABLE TOP DOG PRODUCT
that fifth-columns, untried sub-
marines and a huge army un-
supported by adequate resources
and transport make a winning
combination.
“If Hitler* could not conquer
with the favorable conditions
attending the Nazi effort, what
can Stalin expect under present
conditions in Europe?”
Paradise Disdained.
All the time the flight of
, cherubim from the “Workers’
Paradise” goes on.
A “Saturday Evening Post”
writer in Berlin, instancing a
young Russian who, to get free,
recently crossed altogether three
frontiers, sloughed across Poland
on foot, stealing and starving
for 63 days and 1200 miles,
named him “among an estimated
13,000 to 14,000 young Russians
who, despite their Communist
upbringing, are known to have
fled the Soviet system since
1945”:
“Each month hundreds of
Russian Army officers, enlisted
men and civilians cross to the
free West from the Soviet zones
of Austria and Germany, and
from Hungary, Poland and the
other Russian satellites. The
deserters are of practically all
ranks. At least a half-dozen
generals have made the perilous
journey, uncertain till the last
moment whether they would be
received by the Western Allies.
There have been ex-Communist-
party members, intelligence
officers, citizens of far-off
Tartary, war heroes, engineers,
artists —and even a former
N.K.V.D. executioner with 150
victims on his conscience.”
The writer added that German
refugees alone from the Soviet
zone “amount to nearly 30,000 a
month.”
“Pulheems.”
Pending a sarn-major’s prob-
ably fruitier dissertation on any
particular specimen Pulheems,
one of, the present British sys-
tem of selecting men for service
has been officially described in
the House of Commons by Mr.
Shinwell.
“The fitness of soldiers for
service oversea,” said Mr. Shin-
weil. “is assessed under the Pul-
heems system of medical classi-
fication, which has replaced the
former medical categories. P
stands for physical capacity ; U,
upper limbs; L, locomotion ;
H, hearing; EE, eyesight; M,
mental capacity; S, emotional
capacity.”
“What,” demanded Colonel
Gomme-Duncan, “comes out at
the end of all this, a soldier, or
what?”
Mr. Shinwell was noncommit-
tal; “At the end,”, he said,
“there emerges a person who has
satisfied the full medical require-
ments of the Army.”’
Mechanical Brain.
The “mechanical brain” con-
structed at Manchester Univer-
sity (of which there was some
mention a while back in cables)
is reported by a London “Times”
special correspondent to be not
only working satisfactorily but
actually working out problems
which it is practically impossible
to execute on paper.
It has, for instance, completed
in a matter of weeks a problem
which was started in the seven-
teenth century and is now only
just being completed by human
calculation.
The “Times” man reported its
appearance as “somewhat un-
prepossessing.” It is composed
of racks of, electrical apparatus
consisting of a mass of untidy
wires, valves, chassis and display
tubes. When in action, its
cathode ray becomes a. pattern
of dots which shows what in-
formation is in the machine.
There is a close analogy be-
tween its structure and that of
the human brain. It differs from
other “mechanical brains” in its
method of storing information.
The electronic method ensures
that information is more readily
accessible.
One of the university mathe-
matigians in charge of the con-
traption said of it: “This is only
a foretaste of what is to come,
and only the shadow of what is
going to be. We have to have
some experience with the
machine before we really know
its capabilities. It may take years
before we settle down to the
new possibilities, but I do not
see why it should not enter any
one of the fields normally
covered by the human intellect,
and eventually compete on
equal terms.”
Somebody having facetiously
suggested that it might turn out
a nice sonnet, the expert com-
mented; “I do not think you
can even draw the line about
sonnets, though the comparison
is perhaps a little bit unfair be-
cause a sonnet written by a
machine will be better appreci-
ated by another machine.”
Research, he added, would be
directed to finding the degree of
intellectual activity of which a
machine was capable and to
what extent it could “think for
itself.”
Makers of History.
From former U.S. Secretary
of Labor Frances Perkins’s book
The Roosevelt I Knew, an inci-
dent in the history-making at
Yalta as described in Roose-
velt’s own words:
“Then I said, lifting my hand
up to cover a whisper (which,
of course, had to be inter-
preted) : ‘Winston is cranky this
morning, he got up on the wrong
side of the bed.’
“A vague smile passed over
Stalin’s eyes and I decided I was
on the right Hack. As soon as
I sat down at the conference
table I began to tease Churchill
about his Britishness, about
John Bull, about his cigars,
about his habits. It began to
register with Stalin. Winston
got red and scowled, and the
more he did so the more he
[Stalin] smiled. Finally Stalin
broke out into a deep hearty
guffaw, and for the first time
in three days I saw light.”
Or at any rate that’s what he
thought.
A “Wall - street Journal”
writer, quoting the passage,
in reference to the Paris Foreign
Ministers’ conference, com-
ments : “There has been
some progress [in diplomatic
dickering] since those naive and
far too personal conferences of
the war years.”
Maybe that’s what he thinks,
too.
Quid Israel For Ever!
ŵ
Dragnet Digest.
They’ve Had U.N.O. —Fed-up at
last with what it has always held to
be U.N.O. interference in a purely
domestic field, South Africa a few
weeks back informed the moribund
outfit that no further reports on the
administration of South-West Africa
would be submitted. One reason
given was that the reports, hitherto
voluntarily submitted, had merely
been providing an opportunity “for
using the trusteeship council and
committee as a forum for criticism
and censure of the administration.”
As an addition to the snub, the re-
ports “will continue to be available
to the general public,”
* * * ♦
Open Wide, Wider Please I
Masterly understatement by a British
health-service chairman on his coun-
cil’s having paid more than £25,000
fo a Lanarkshire dentist for 11
months’ work under the National
Health Service: “It is hard to believe
that the patients received the pains-
taking, careful attention which we
have a right to expect in our ser-
vice.”
* * * *
The U.S. Handout. —In rather
caustic terms, “U.S. News and World
Report” is giving American taxpayers
cold comfort on any early end of
U.S. handouts. It declares that
Britain won’t be permitted to go
bankrupt: “Dollars will be pumped
in from some source to prevent a
British crisis,” and “Britain will go
on depending on outside help, in-
stead of trying too hard to live on
what she can earn.” With Britain
and the others, too, “Old-time vir-
tues of frugality, hard work, self-
reliance will be played down,” and
“The U.S. Treasury, as a result, will
be pumped for everything it is worth.”
As a last scene of all: “U.S. tax-
payers, once the dollars run low, will
be blamed for not providing every
country with everything it would like
to have.”
* * * *
Arms-aid a U.S. Essential. —N. Y.
“Times” military writer Hanson W.
Baldwin, backing that influential
newspaper’s strong support of U.S.
arms-aid for Western Europe: “To
those who view arms-aid to Europe
as purely altruistic, big-hearted and
unselfish on our part, a study of the
strategic importance of Western
Europe to the defence of the United
States is recommended. We have
fought—in a strategic sense—two
wars to keep that region independent,
or to free it from the grip of a hostile
ideology. The arms-aid programme
is a selfish programme; it promotes
United States security.”
* * * *
R.A.F. in Front. —Air Marshal Sir
Basil Embry, Britain’s A.0.C.-in-C.,
Fighter Command, summing up on
the big air-attack tests, found one
decidedly heartening result from the
British viewpoint; that the R.A.F.
is still ahead of the world with its
fighter force and, he said, would
remain there. Incidentally, in 700 night-
landings made during the tests only
one aircraft was damaged, and it only
slightly so.


—the first ignition
battery was an
EXIDE.
1
I
—the first lighting
- battery was an
EXIDE.
—the first starting,
lighting and ignition
battery was an EXIDE.
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
MAKE
PERSONAL ITEMs
The Bulletin reported of Peter Fraser,
when he came here in 1942 for a friendly
chat about problems of mutual interest,
that “in war-time he puts military neces-
sity before politics.” His all-out advocacy
in the M.L. conscription referendum —
nearly four to one in favor —proves the
policy applies just as firmly in peace-time.
A carpenter in his native Scotland, he
landed in Maoriland in 1910 and took on
wharflumping. Within a year he was
president of the General Laborers’ Union,
discovered a yen for writing, and suc-
ceeded to the editorship of the Maoriland
“Worker,” Wellington Central put him
into Parliament in 1918, and he still repre-
sents that constituency. He became P.M.
when M. J. Savage died in April, 1940.
Not so affable as Savage, Fraser yet man-
ages to combine political dexterity with
some firmness. And he has lived to
swallow his 1914-18 outlook.
Having dispensed shots of British cul-
ture in judicious doses in the two years
he has been here as British Council repre-
sentative, C. H. Wilmot returns to Lon-
don. Tixe council’s function is to carry
British culture into the Dominions and
foreign countries ; discharging it, Wilmot,
a young M.A. of Corpus Christ! (Cam.),
co-operated briskly with the A.8.C., the
Press, the Government, universities and
just about everybody interested. His first
culture-injection was the Boyd Neel
orchestra, followed, among others, by
Laurence and Vivien, the Ballet Rambert
and Tyrone Guthrie. Off-stage Wilmot’s
hobby is local government, which he’s in-
dulged wandering through towns and
villages throughout Europe and parts of
Africa, and in Lambeth, where he was an
alderman. Sir Angus Gillan is to take
over.
“Macnell”: A naval captain, among his
officers, does not captain or command his ship
—he “drives” it. Lt.-Cdr. John Kerans’s dash
down the mud-barred Yang-tze in sloop
Amethyst explains why. He took over the
grounded and damaged ship when her previous
captain, Lt.-Cdr. Bernard Skinner, was killed.
Quietly, while many wondered at the British
ship’s inactivity, Kerans had his men at work
patching holes, shoring bulkheads and servicing
engine-room and guns. By 11 p.m. of a dark
night she was ready. Brushing a white bow-
wave before her, a river-steamer, under pilot,
eased carefully down-river. Swiftly Amethyst
slipped her steadying cable, for the first time in
weeks bells rang faintly in her engine-room,
and her screws heaved her, slowly at first, then
easily and quickly, into the flooded river. She
stopped, spun under hard-over rudder and
thrusting screws, and steadied her sharp nose
downstream in the steamer’s wake. There are
few waters in the world where the Navy uses
pilots—Chinese rivers, changed constantly by
rips and mud-bars, are some of them. Kerans
and his navigator had spent days on their
charts. Now, with a bottom-searching asdic
set their main eyes, and under close-range
fire from Communist batteries, they laid
Amethyst on course and let her go. At 1 p.m.
she had reached Kiangyin Forts, on a narrow
neck of the river. Kerans'aimed his stem at
a narrow gap in the boom, at undiminished
speed broke through, and, under heavy fire
and with superb pilotage, coursed through the
banked mill-race and sped on. At 5.30 she
passed Woosung Fort at the river-mouth,
coming again under fire; but within a few
minutes Kerans had passed out of range and
dropped his remaining anchor near destroyer
Concord, after six-and-a-half hours and 140
miles of as fine a piece, of navigation and
daring as the Royal Navy has seen for many
a day.
“M.”: A naval trick at the wheel
seldom lasts one hour; coxswain Leslie
Frank, a Plymouth man, stuck to Ame-
thyst’s wheel for the full 6\. A stout
effort in open water, watching a compass-
line with unremitting concentration, on
the treacherous Yang-tze it is almost with-
out parallel. When rudder is applied to
a speeding ship only the most expert
handling can steady her on the. new
course without her overswinging. At
speed on the flooded river, closely
beset on each side by waiting miid-
banks this swing would, have spelt
Amethyst’s end. But the Navy still rates
seamanship well above gufinery and
torpedo efficiency ; and Frank’s only com-
ment at the end of his epic run was “my
eyes got a bit tired halfway down,”
The first award Melbourne University
has made of a Doctorate of Philosophy
to an oversea candidate has gone to P. S.
Parsai, a young Indian Government
scholar. He’s been conducting research
into citrus virus disease for some years,
which research he’ll continue in India.
The shade of Malcolm Campbell will
no doubt pace his son Donald’s shot at
the 141.7 m.p.h, water-speed record
Malcolm established in 1939. Donald
will drive the same Bluebird, which, end-
on, looks like a long, engine-packed
torpedo flanked by a brace* of tapering
wings. The giant speedboat’s thrust this
time will come from a 12-cylinder Rolls-
Royce engine. Malcolm was 21 when
he rode his first motorbike race; Donald
is 27.
Now striding out solidly on his 95th
lap, Andrew Nixon, of St. George (Q.),
was born at Kiandra (N.S.W.) and spent
his boyhood in the Snowy country. As
a lad he was apprenticed to a Corowa
blacksmith; later, he was in Jerilderie
when the Kellys held up the bank. On
an earlier occasion he shod Ned’s nag,
and “got damned well paid for it, too.”
In 1890, near Cunnamulla, a sheepman
gave him a fat cheque for saving £5OOO-
- of sheep abandoned after being
trapped by the flooded Warrego. In less
than two days Nixon rigged a bridge with
cypress-pine slabs, empty hogsheads and
nine coils of fencing-wire across 170 yards
of water. Shortly afterwards he built
the 475 ft. bridge which still spans the
Balonne at St. George, 20 yards above
Major Mitchell’s rocky crossing. Today
the old-timer still drives a truck, carts his
wool 60-odd miles to the railhead and
maintains a brisk interest in his sizeable
sheep and cattle holdings.
Prior and present scribe wormed past
a maze of rigging backstage at the
Kiwis, to be brought up standing
by hearing a lady pleasantly disagreeing
with a gentleman in terms that would
have inspired a bullocky’s team. It took
close inspection to recognise six feet of
Maori male behind the disguise. Thread-
ing on, they tracked down Terry Vaughan,
here presented, making-up for the show.
In between interruptions from callboys,
dressers, stage-manager and artists, the
visitors found him a naturally easy cove
with a casual power of command that
explains why he’s held his group of Kiwis
together in equal-salaried harmony since
General Freyberg ordered their forming
in the Middle East, Vaughan was in
England studying music on a scholarship
at the Royal Academy when World
War II began—he had already written
a piano concerto which Sir Henry Wood
conducted, with Vaughan soloist —and he
joined the M.L. 34th Anti-tank Battery,
Middle East-bound. Two years of that,
then the Kiwis hit the boards, to bring
laughter to front-line troops from North
Africa to Crete, Syria and Italy. In
Syria a shell burst among the orchestra
and killed a trumpeter; in Crete saxo-
phones were exchanged for the familiar
TERRY VAUGHAN, of the Kiwis,
rifle and bayonet to form a platoon—
Vaughan’s “mention” (he rates also
0.8. E.) was for more than baton-waving.
These days he does all the show’s orches-
trations, produces it, too, and puts on as
well a Professor Popowski act which The
Bulletin showman called “a gem of pure
clowning.”
Another Australian to garner overseas
recognition. Dr. Hugh Trumble, Professor
of Agronomy at the Waite Research Insti-
tute, Adelaide University, is off next
month to advise U.N.O. at its Food and
Agricultural conference in Washington.
It’s not his first call overseas. A Mel-
bourne University graduate, and staff-
member of the Waite Institute since its
foundation, he carried out missions in
1928 for the Empire Marketing Board in
Palestine, Morocco and Algeria, and in
1939-40 did research in Britain and the
U.S. on rubber-plant production, camou-
flage and soil-erosion as war work and
as a preliminary to his accepting the new
Chair of Agronomy. In 1946 he was back
in England as an Australian delegate to
the Empire Science congress. He is 46.
When Auckland city librarian John
Barr, depicted here by Heth, was asked
where he was born, the interviewer
wouldn’t have been surprised if he had
burst out singing “I belong to Glasgae,”
for Glasgow-born Barr has often been
asked: “Excuse me, but are you Harry
Lauder?” In fact, Minhinnick of the
Auckland “Herald” once depicted him
in the role of the comedian. Born in the
year of Queen Victoria’s Jubilee, Barr
was schooled at St. David’s in his home-
town, and for 10 years was an assistant
at Glasgow’s famous Mitchell Library.
Shipping to Australia in 1911, he worked
as hay-maker, day-gardener and for a
cow-cocky before becoming senior cata-
loguer at the Fisher Library at Sydney
University. There he catalogued under
kindly John le Gay Brereton, poet,
scholar and father-confessor to half the
writers of Sydney, and was a friend of
JOHN BARR, Auckland City Librarian.
Chris Brennan. In 1913 he crossed the
Tasman to his present appointment as
Director of the Auckland Public Library
and Art Gallery, The library has a
valuable collection of Shakespearian
folios, pre-15th century illuminated
MSS. and three volumes printed by
Caxton. A genial, small and active fel-
low with a fund of racial anecdotes, Barr
is spending a long-deserved holiday in
Australia.
“Wingspan”: Squadron-leader Charles
Scherf (B. 27/7/’49) certainly got into it
in lively style over there. His bag for
three months was aircraft in the
air and 23 on the ground. His idea of
a spell from operational duty on one
remembered occasion was to board a
fighter, head it over Europe and, on an
entirely unauthorised visit, shoot down
five enemy aircraft. To court-martial or
decorate —that was the question. A nice
compromise gave him his issue of strife
in one hand and D.S.O. in the other.
“Uramao”: Norman Davis, M.L.
Rhodes Scholar for 1934, is Glasgow
University’s new Professor of English.
Schooled at Otago B.H.S, and Univer-
sity, he completed his studies at Merton
College, Oxford, and moved to the
Baltic, where he lectured in English at
Kaunas University, Lithuania, followed
by a job at the State University of Sofia ;
here, as arranged by the British Foreign
office, he was to supervise teaching of
English throughout Bulgaria, to stimu-
late British influence. When war. broke
he and 11 other Embassy members
escaped, before a Bulgarian military
court sentenced him to death in absentia
for alleged espionage and sabotage.
Exhibited here by Chester, H. W.
Watson, presiding genius of this week’s
Brisbane Exhibition. And putting on
the country’s major beef-cattle show amid
strike difficulties calls for genius. In
ordinary life Watson is a long, cheerful
soul, addicted to bowls and Rotary.
Secretary of the R.N.A. and I. Associa-
H. W. WATSON, of the Brisbane Show.
tion since 1929, he started off as a school-
teacher, and became interested in matters
pastoral and agricultural through a trans-
fer to one of the best rural districts in
the State. Brisbane-born, an interest near
to his heart is the Montrose Home for
Crippled Children, of which he has been
honorary secretary since 1933.
A graduate of the College of the Bible,
in Melbourne, now principal of that col-
lege’s offshoot in Dunedin (M.L.), which
he organised, A. L. Haddon has been
honored with an honorary Doctorate of
Divinity from Butler University, in
Indianapolis (U.S.A.). Butler, with Yale
and Harvard, has its degrees recognised
by Oxford. The new D.D. is vice-presi-
dent of the World Convention of the
Churches of Christ.
“A.P.”; Tiny Williams, D.C.M. and
Bar, whose death was recorded in a
recent Bulletin, resembled in appear-
ance a veldt Boer rather than an Anzac.
Tall enough to look into Jacko’s trenches
and bomb him into a blind alley, he
was as well a crack shot. A Turk sniper
cut his hatband, and a German nicked
his cheek in France. Tiny objected to
this buying into his argument —“I was
having a go at another bloke.” Under
60 at the end, he reared a large family,
paid for his farm, hardly uttered a cross
word and was kindly to all men.
Into the Silence; .
In Melbourne, Mrs. Nancy Ann Carty-
Salmon, widow of Dr. Charles Carty-Salmon,
member for Grampians and former Speaker of
the House of Reps. She was the daughter of
Matthew Harris, a former Lord Mayor of
Sydney.
In Brisbane, at 78, h, J. Harvey, sculptor of
mark and a trustee of the Royal Queensland
Art Society. He taught woodcarving at the
Technical College for years, owned a wood-
carving shop in the city, and is represented
in the State’s Art Gallery by a bronze head of
a girl and a sgraffito vase.
In Melbourne, at 61, Squire Horace Reid,
president of the Victorian Football Association
since 1947 and for J. 5 years State Labor mem-
ber for Oakleigh (Vic.), He was, as well,
Chairman of Committees for many years, and,
out of the House, a cigar manufacturer.
At 32, at Heidelberg Repatriation Hospital
(Vic.), Peter Purves-Smith, artist. Going on
the land after studying at Jervis Bay Naval
College, he took up painting and went to
London and Paris. While serving with the
British Army he had works bought by the
Museum of Modern Art in New York, and by
the Australian Legation in Washington.
In Melbourne, H. G. Brett, an Old Digger
well known in Melbourne business and political
circles. He was president of the Proportional
Representation Society.
In Brisbane, at 73, William Purcell, member
of the Q.T.C. and one-time chief warden of
the Queensland Prickly Pear Commission. He
introduced cactoblastis to the State’s pear.
Two of his three sons are detective-sergeants
in the State’s force, and his daughter is married
to another, at present in Suva after investigating
the recent Ocean Island double murder.
At 63, in Melbourne, William Thomas
Charge, Royal Society of St. George president
and Fellow of eight accountancy institutes in
England, Australia and New Zealand. He got
his M.B.E. in the 1937 Coronation Honors for
his work on youth employment, and was a
one-time hon. treasurer of N.S.W. Red Cross.
He was prominent in the affairs of Hemingway
and Ro.bertson.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Guests motored up from Newport and
beyond in lovely weather to a very glad
party when the Consul-General for
Switzerland and Mrs, Hans Hedinger en-
tertained last week. They gave a buffet-
lunch in honor of the six hundred and
fifty-eighth anniversary of the foundation
of their country. The large dining-room of
the Australia was crowded with the city’s
best-knowns in good spirits, eating good
food —a special attraction was the onion
tart. This and other national dishes had
been done to a turn by the hotel’s Swiss
chef. Dominating the room was a large
flag of Switzerland, its white cross very
striking against the red background.
Mrs. Hedinger’s frock was of silk
shot taffeta. It was ankle-length, and its
folds shimmered pale-gold and amber.
All the consulates in Sydney were repre-
sented. Chief Justice Frederick Jordan
and Lady. Jordan were there; so were
the city’s Lord Mayor and Mrs. O’Dea.
The wife of Premier McGirr wore with
her spring suit one of the hew hats,
its brim soft with pastel feather
fronds. Elizabeth Northcott, knight
Harry Moxham and his wife and Sheila
Collett were in the changing groups.
Sir Hugh and Lady Poynter, Mr.
and Mrs. C. R, McKerihan, the Broad-
casting Commission’s Mr. Boyer and Mrs.
Boyer, Mr. Justice Roper and the graceful
Mrs. Roper, Mrs. Bernard Muscio, Miss
Ruby Wilkinson, Mrs. Eric Kennedy,
John Quinn, formerly Parliamentary
Librarian, helped in the making of this
cosmopolitan party.
In the evening Swiss nationals in
Sydney celebrated with a ball at the
Wentworth Hotel. Many of the dancers
wore the bright and attractive national
costumes The wife of Consul-General
Hedinger wore a white frock of exquisite
Swiss embroidery Made on a founda-
tion of cherry-pink taffeta, it was a pic-
turesque example of one of Switzerland’s
great industries.
A cheque to the value of £220 was
received by Mrs. Neil Macleod at the
American Club last week. The cheque
was given towards the work of the Spastic
Centre, of which Mrs. Macleod and her
husband were the founders. It was 50 per
cent, of the amount raised by the Ameri-
can Society’s Fourth of July Ball.
Novelists Maysie and Max Murray
celebrated a birthday in the family last
Wednesday evening. It was Mrs. Max’s
natal day, and the Vaucluse home was
festooned with flowers and gaudy with
lights (not e. 1.). Maysie received the
guests in orchids and black velvet. The
frock had a fitting bodice and puffed
sleeves, and the full skirt had the effect
of being slightly hooped—but it wasn’t.
The cattleya orchids in her fair hair had
been given to her by British Trade Com-
missioner Henderson and Mrs. Hender-
son. The spray on her bodice was from
her husband.
The party started at six and went on till
about midnight, when some of the Kiwis
who had been in at the beginning returned
for the ending. Terry Vaughan, whose
tall and good-looking wife was one of the
evening’s ornaments, had given all his
morning to the flower compositions
throughout the house. The Henry
Braddon lady, looking very pretty in
black, was an early arrival. The neighbor-
ing Leo Listers, John Ludowici,
Joe McFadden, columnist Jimmy Mac-
dougall and his wife, Max and Mrs.
Afford (his play “Dark Enchantment” is
still running at the Minerva) were
guests; aeronautics Professor A. V.
Stephens and his pretty American wife,
head of the U.S. Information Department
in Sydney Tom Alexander and his wife —
her color-scheme mignonette-green—were
others who drank the birthday toast.
Small son of the house Robert applauded
all speeches with impartiality.
The Returned Soldiers, Sailors and
Airmen’s Imperial League will celebrate
the fifth anniversary of the World War
II victory with its ball at the Trocadero
on Thursday, August 18. The Governor,
Lieut.-General John Northcott, will be
received by the State president, Mr. Yeo,
the chairman of the ball committee,
Colonel E O. Milne, and other well-
known war leaders. Double tickets,
obtainable at the Troc., are £2 2s. each.
Nett proceeds are in aid of the Express
Parcel section of the Food for Britain
Fund. The committee will send two
express parcels to two British ex-service-
men for each double ticket sold. Mrs.
Fred Tinkler will be matron of honor,
and will present 21 ex-servicemen’s
daughters to his Excellency.
Last Wednesday this Letter called in
to the Sali Herman show in David Jones’s
Gallery. It was a day before the open-
ing, but Mrs. H. V. Evatt (wife of the
Minister for External Affairs) was there,
too, busily going around the walls with
Director of the National Gallery, Hal
Missingham. She was choosing a picture
to be bought for the Australian Embassy
in Washington. Her choice was a good
one. It is a painting of the Parramatta
River flowing under an arched bridge.
On that day she wore a cinnamon-
brown suit topped by a lush brown fur
jacket. On Thursday afternoon Mrs.
Evatt, who opened the show (introduced
by Hal Missingham), wore a black suit,
the open coat showing what the fashion
scribes call an “ice-white” blouse. Her
small black shiny hat wore its silver-blue
ribbons looped at the right-side. Her
speech was mainly about art and artists
seen in the different lands she and her
husband spend their time visiting.
The artist and his wife had the pleasure
of seeing the red disc flaring out on many
frames. The gallery bought “Near the
Docks” for 200 guineas, the Eric
Prattens bought “Gossip”—two women
pausing in their sweeping to have
an over-the-fence chat. One of the
most pleasing pictures is one loaned by
Mrs. John Amory, wife of the director
of D.J.’s gallery. It shows a letter on
which stands a champagne glass, and in
this are two small white rosebuds and
one red one. It is called “Reminiscences.”
Mrs. Orsen Nielsen, Mrs. Dundas Allen,
Mrs. Tom Bateman and small daughter
Beatrice, Anabelle Sweetapple, Violet
Roche and Mrs. Evatt’s granddaughter
Christine were among the interested.
The Country Women’s Association is
setting out to build two new holiday sea-
side homes. A site at Harbord has already
been secured, and on this the new Keera
House will arise. At Newcastle, too, there
will be a new and modernised building.
This will be named the Ruth Fairfax, in
memory of one of the most ardent and
consistent workers the C.W.A. has known.
The lady in this Norton Trevaire photo-
graph, Mrs. E. A. Coghlan, has been
made chairwoman of the Special Appeals
Committee working for the new seaside
homes. Mrs. Coghlan has already proved
her mettle. She was chairwoman of the
C.W.A, Handcrafts section of the C.W.A.
during the war years.
Today five North Shore fine hostesses
are holding a buffet lunch, followed by
bridge, for the Lady Mayoress’ Relief
Fund. Mrs. R. Boyer, Mrs. Harold Bott,
Mrs. Hope Gibson, Mrs. H. E. Taplin
and Mrs. L. P. R. Bean have arranged
the party, which will be held in Mrs.
Taplin’s home. The Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. O’Dea, will be present.
Next Monday night violinist Thomas
Saville will give a recital in the Con-
servatorium. Associate artist will be
pianist Carita St. Clair, who has tran-
scribed into Braille all the music the
gifted but sightless artist will play.
Barbara Bennett is managing the concert.
Otto Klemperer, who is in Australia to
conduct a series of concerts for the
A.8.C., and Mrs. Klemperer were wel-
comed at a party given by the Sydney
Symphony Orchestral committee last
Friday. The reception-rooms of the
Royal Empire Society in Bligh-street were
radiant with spring flowers. There were
great bowls of freesia and poppies,
branching sprays of spring blossom, roses
and camellias. The commission’s chieftain,
R. J. F. Boyer, and Mrs. Boyer are a
friendly pair, and under Mr. Boyer’s
genial words Otto expanded into speech
—about the orchestra, of course. The
Frederick Jordan lady and Mrs. Hope
Gibson were the afternoon’s hostesses.
A masked dance at midnight will add
fun and a touch of romance to the Black
and White Ball, to be held in October,
This ball is always one of the social
affairs of the season, and aids the Indus-
trial Blind Institute, A painting by
Loudon Sainthill will be given to the
wearer of the lucky mask. There are
prizes this year for the most attractive
white frock worn by a young unmarried,
and a prize for the most attractive black
From Melbourne
A Renaissance gown of rose and gold
brocade with a wide sweeping skirt and
bodice tight-fitting, with folds of the
brocade giving an off-the-shoulder effect,
was worn by Joan Hammond at the first
of the concerts she is giving to make pos-
sible an overseas tour of a ladies’ golf
team. Among the pretty girls who sold
programmes were Pam Dixon, in a black
velvet gown, the bodice cut with a deep
square neckline, Pam Buxton, whose
black crepes were edged with black
georgette, and her sister, Carolyn, her
Regency-striped gown of blue-and-white
taffeta. Noted in the big audience were
Hilda Corbett, whose fine black wool
ankle-length frock was worn with long
black gloves dotted with gold sequins,
Mrs. Simon Fraser in dyed-ermine coat
and black gown, and Mrs. A. E. Hotch-
kiss, also in black.
On the same night “Separate Rooms,”
starring June Clyde, had its premiere at
the Comedy. Baritone Todd Duncan was
in the audience with his wife. Mrs.
Douglas Stephens was there with Mr.
and Mrs. J. H. Roberts, who appeared in
the Comedy’s last show, “Fly Away
Peter.” Jill Daveron added a pmk-and-
blue hand-painted sari to her black crepe
gown. Strella Wilson’s powder-blue
crepe frock was worn with a matching
jacket which had roses and gold em-
broideries on the pockets. Mrs. Geoff
Brewer’s royal - blue - and - gold wide-
checked taffetas were worn under a
platina-fox cape. Just back from England
and the continent, Mrs, Les Sangster wore
a striking gown of floral on a background
of white satin, Mrs. Leo Britt’s gown
was of black taffeta. Commander John
Bath was with his wife, whose gown of
black velvet had pearls and silver em-
broidery featured at the cuffs of the long
sleeves and at the deep neckline. Ameri-
can-beauty crepe trimmed with rows of
matching sequins fashioned the gown
worn by Mrs. A. Fowler. Cut on Grecian
lines, the old-gold crepe gown worn by
Mrs. Maurice Nathan glittered with gold
sequins. Mrs. John Kelly’s white crepes
were studded with silver beads and
diamente. A pearl-encrusted eau-de-nil
crepe gown was Mrs. Harold Nathan’s
contribution to the night’s most elegant
draperies. Her sister, Mrs. A. B. Pater-
son, was in black tulle. Royal-blue
georgette fashioned with full skirt and
draped bodice was worn by Mrs. S.
Aarons.
Mrs, Richard Cresswell is a very ener-
getic member of the committee which is
organising the Air Force Women’s Asso-
ciation Ball, to be held later in the year at
St. Kilda Town Hall. Formerly Bettine
Cotter, she went to Paris to finish her
education, and on returning married
Sauadron-Leader Cresswell. With her
husband Mrs. Cresswell has lived on Air
Force stations in Amberley (Q.) and
Williamtowh (N.S.W.), but they are now
established in a flat at St. Kilda-road.
Clever hat-designers have found in-
spiration in the new leaves now peeping
out as the deciduous trees emerge from
their winter sleep, the gold of daffodils,
the distinctive shade of violets, the brown
and amber tonings of sweet-smelling
boronia and the gleaming purity of
gardenias for spring models. Lightweight
English felts will run the complete range
of pastels. Italian leghorns and Swiss
straws are flower-laden. Sylvia Howell
has designed the hats which will be
shown at Paterson, Laing and Bruce’s
showrooms on August 18 for the Vera
Scantlebury Brown Memorial Fund.
Lady Herring and the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. J. S. Disney, have granted their
patronage. Kenrick Hudson, well known
in radio, will compere the show, and
artists from the “Oklahoma” company
will sing. The tickets are half a guinea,
and may be obtained from Ronald’s,
Collins-street, or at the Appeal Office
at the Town Hall.
Guests who arrived at the home of
knight Richard Linton for the party he
and his wife gave, with assistance by
son Richard, for departing friends on the
Orcades found their way up the drive
by the light of hurricane-lamps. The
guests of honor included Daphne New-
ton (Mrs. Peter Grey), whose floral-
printed white satin gown was worn with
a cape of platinum fox. The bodice of
the soft powder-blue crepe gown worn
by the Linton lady was embellished with
crystal-bead trimming; her wrap was
white Arctic fox. Mrs, Myer Suther-
land wore a silver-and-bronze lamd
gown with a blue mink jacket. Joy
Beattie, who is bound for London,
had gold accessories for her white-wool
ballerina frock. June Clyde’s black
chenille velvet gown* sported a white
ermine bow at the hip-line. Mrs. L. R.
Buxton’s bouffant gown was of white
organza printed in pastel-toned ostrich-
feathers. Marigold Myer’s velvets were
forest-green. Lady Clarke allied a black
formal skirt and a pink-and-black-striped
satin blouse. Mrs. Maurice Nicholas was
in white corded silk. Mrs. Jim Camp-
bell covered her midnight-blue crepes
with a matching fitting jacket. A
Chinese-patterned high-necked silk gown
was worn by Mrs. Theo Scales.
George’s Gallery was crowded when
Air-Marshal George Jones, R.A.A.F.,
opened an exhibition of the Battle of
Britain Roll of Honor Book and original
Royal documents. Proceeds from the ex-
hibition will go to the British Memorial
Fund, With the Air-Marshal was his
wife, wearing silver foxes with her
tailored black suit and small hat. Mrs.
Guy Bakewell, a member of the British
Memorial Fund committee, wore a belted
coat of teal-blue and a scarf of leopard-
skin. Mrs. A. Isaacson, executive officer
of the fund, hit on fur as a trimming for
her cinnamombrown jacket-suit; her
forest-green felt hat had a feather mount.
Madame Chambrelent, who first came
to this country four years ago with the
French mannequins, has married and
lives in this city. She is now asso-
ciated with Myers, and recently gave her
first fashion show, at which spring models
were shown. Some of these were
Parisian originals, whilst others were
either exact copies or adaptations of
French models. In some the deep, square
neckline is allied to the shawl collar.
Jackets will be worn morning, noon and
night, and summer frocks of candy-
striped cottons will be fashionable at
home and on beaches. Straw buttons
and hessian belts highlight many spring
suits and frocks, and contrast in color
for a frock is important. For example:
a brown satin blouse is worn with a
caramel-toned, fully-flared skirt. But the
most surprising feature of the clothes
shown was the price. “Fudge,” the name
given to a caramel-toned satin dress de-
signed by Worth, with deep shawl revers
outlining its deep, square neckline, wUI
cost under £B. The sloping shoulder-
line and dolman sleeve were seen in an
adaptation of Robert Piquet’s “Silver
Grey.” Of grey crepe, it has an over-
skirt which opens over a centre panel of
fine pleating. Three French designers,
Mme. Carpentier, Jean Desses and Worth,
contributed to one of the most original
evening gowns in the collection. Of
olive-green silk jersey, it has a moulded
strapless bodice and wide skirt with a
draped overdress. The gleaming, spangled
scarf of grey tulle is worn across the
shoulders. Another version of it has the
overdress draped over the shoulders. One
was slipped off to reveal one shoulder
while the other remained covered. The
third variation on the basic theme was
the addition of a tiny bolero, made of
striped silk and with shoulders extended
to form short cap-sleeves.
Singer Glenda Raymond was guest-of-
honor at a late-afternoon party at
Menzies given by Mrs. Roland Strong
and her brother, Hector Crawford.
Glenda’s attractive black coat, bought in
London, featured fashion’s newest fancy,
a back-button trimming holding wide
box-pleats which run from waist to hem-
line. A black frock and a tiny off-the-
face hat of white satin covered with fine
black silk net and finished at one side
with two large black feather pom-poms
completed the ensemble. Mrs. John Cain
wore an aqua-blue embroidered jacket-
suit with a matching hat which had a
sweep of pheasant feathers. Mrs. Bruce
Bellamy highlighted her trim black suit
with its silver-fox collar with a black felt
beret. Mrs. R. O. Millsk suit was of grey
English flannel. Mrs. A. J. Kerr’s black
georgette frock was worn with a match-
ing hat trimmed with veiling. With her
dove-grey jacket-suit Mrs. Roland Strong
wore a small hat massed with pastel
flowers. Pauline Bindley’s blue-lined
black felt hat was worn with a black
frock and dyed-ermine coat.


Legal Notice.
EDWIN JAMES CASSELS Deceased
son of SAMUEL CASSELS and JULIA
CASSELS (bom Slattery) .—PURSUANT
to Order of Supreme Court of New South
Wales in Equity made in Suit (No. 291
of 1946) entitled “IN THE MATTER of
the Estate of EDWIN JAMES CASSELS
late of Randwick in the State of New
South Wales Wharf Labourer deceased
BETWEEN WILLIAM CASSELS Plaintiff
and MARY ANN WEST Defendant”
WHEREBY inquiry was directed Who
were the persons entitled according to the
Statutes for the distribution of intestate
estates to the estate of the abovenamed
EDWIN JAMES CASSELS deceased living
at his death and whether any of them
have since died and if so who are their
respective legal representatives NOTICE
IS HEREBY GIVEN that all persons
claiming to be entitled under such inquiry
are to send by post prepaid to ALLEN &
LAURENCE, Solicitors, 90 Pitt Street,
Sydney, N.S.W., go as to reach them on
or before 19th November, 1949, their full
names, addresses and descriptions and full
particulars of their claims, or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the
benefit of the said order, unless the Court
or a Judge thereof or the Master in Equity
otherwise orders. Claimants are to attend
personally or by Solicitor before the
Master in Equity, Supreme Court, Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney, on the 29th Novem-
ber, 1949, at 11 a.m., being the time
appointed for adjudicating on claims.
A claimant not residing in N.S.W. must
send with the particulars of claim the
name and address of a person in N.S.W.
to whom notice to the claimant can be
sent. DATED 29th July, 1949.— ALLEN
& LAURENCE, Plaintiff’s Solicitors.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO HERBERT SELBOURNE HOWARD
also known as ROY HOWARD formerly
of Toowoomba in the State of Queensland.
—TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY MAY
HOWARD has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 977 of 1919 on the ground of deser-
tion for three years and upwards with-
out just cause or excuse and is asking for
the exercise of the Court’s discretion If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 22nd
day of October 1949 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
HAROLD R. BUSHBY, STEED & CO.,
Solicitors, 10 Martin Place, Sydney.—
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in
Divorce.
Missing Friends.
TO ALL WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.
Will CHARLES CARTWRIGHT WRIGHT,
who emigrated from England to Australia
about 1879, or his children, or anyone
having knowledge of these persons, please
communicate with HUMPHRIES, KIRK
& MILLER, Solicitors, Institute Road,
Swanage, Dorset, England, relative to the
estate of his late sister Amy Camilla
Goldie, nee Wright?
TO JOHN WILLIAM CHARLES HUDSON
formerly of Trundle and Springdale
N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
HELEN SHERWOOD HUDSON has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for a divorce
on the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before
the sth day of September 1949 and file
an answer in the said office on or before
the 15th day of September 1949 the case
may proceed in your absence and you may
be ordered to pay costs. —GRAY & GRAY,
of 340 Collins Street, Melbourne, Solicitors
for the Petitioner.
TWENTY POUNDS REWARD will be
paid for information enabling the under-
signed to trace or prove the death of a
missing beneficiary, MICHAEL BACK-
HOUSE WALKER, born United Kingdom
about 1897, believed to have come to Aus-
tralia about 1922. —LYNCH & MAC-
DONALD, Solicitors, 360 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
RICHARD (or ERNIE) SIMMONDS
SOUGHT.
THE Public Trustee for Victoria, who is
administrator of the estate of WILLIAM
HENRY WILSON deceased, wishes to re-
ceive information as to the whereabouts
of RICHARD SIMMONDS, a nephew of
the said deceased. It is thought that the
sadd Richard Simmonds may have followed
the occupation of a horse-trainer either
at Albury or Wagga.—C. J. GARDNER,
Public Trustee, 412 Collins Street,
bourne.
Mr. Fraser's Example.
THE SERVICE MAN
“Ek Dum” : The result of the
vote on compulsory training in
Maoriland has a lot of impli-
cations which are worth study-
ing.
Mr. Fraser first put the mat-
ter to the New Zealand Labor-
party Congress. He pointed'out
at the time that his decision that
compulsory training was vital
and urgent was gained during
his recent visit to Britain and
America. He stressed that his
view was endorsed by the New
Zealand Defence Committee, by
his Cabinet and by his Caucus
with one exception.
In the face of this grim
parade of advice, the confer-
ence, with the arrogance of such
unelected bodies, informed the
Prime Minister that it would
not endorse the scheme, profes-
sing that the people of the
Dominion would never support
it.
The Scottish Prime Minister
thought differently. He went to
the poll with the support of his
own party in Parliament and of
the Opposition.
The main leadership of the
opposition to the proposals,
which were mild enough in all
conscience, came from the arrb-
gant band of Communist union
leaders and those who run with
them, backed by the Quakers
and the “pacifists,” who would
always sooner be shot than
shoot.
On the latest figures available
Mr. Fraser won by 535,000-odd
votes to 152,000.
It is a vote which must have
produced a lot of gooseflesh in
Canberra, where it always has
been an axiom that to submit
a referendum on compulsory
training would amount to sui-
cide for a “Labor” Government,
which would be “swept out of
existence by the votes of a
liberty-loving people.”
This point of view owes its
origin to Communists and to
those who founded the Com-
munist party, and it has been
hammered hard by such men as
R. A. King, M.L.C., one of Mr.
Chifley’s stalwarts who came
back from Moscow in 1938 to
become joint secretary with a
Communist of the anti-conscrip-
tion campaign which disfigured
tfc history of Australia in the
first years of World War 11.
“Labor’s” anti - conscription
policy has been a great help to
Moscow, whose instructions
were set out in the resolutions of
the Ninth Congress of the Aus-
tralian Communist party;
When war comes, the workers must
be prepared not to boycott war by
refusal to render service or by inac-
tion or by pacifist means, but to take
advantage of the opportunity to
acquire arms and turn them to their
account. The workers alone can end
war by smashing for all time the
present cause of war, capitalism.
In this regard and in relation to
the experiences of the Australian
, workers in the last war, we should
consider our attitude towards con-
scription
Our task is to stimulate such mass
opposition to conscription that it
manifests itself not merely as anti-
conscription “opposition,” not merely
as a defence of “democratic” rights
of Australian citizens, but as a defi-
nite opposition to imperialist war.
Out of this opposition will grow a
larger and more class-conscious
movement determined to wage civil
war rather than be conscripted, and
eventually to press forward through
mass political strikes to the challenge
for complete political power, and, as
a guarantee that the workers shall
hold what we take, the establishment
of our dictatorship.
Gallup polls in Australia a
week before the New Zealand
vote showed that a referendum
would have very much the same
results as across the Tasman.
The voters were in the majority
for a referendum before intro-
duction of compulsory training,
but there was a 7T per cent, vote
for the measure, a vote of 19
per cent, which declared that it
would oppose compulsory train-
ing on a referendum and 7 per
cent, of vacillating minds.
Among Labor voters 68 per cent,
declared that they would register
a “Yes” vote for compulsory
training.
More Unrest in Europe.
“Ek Dum”: While all eyes
in Australia are concentrated on
local events and electors have
learned with pleased surprise
that there is at least enough
Army available to work a few
opencuts and bring a chance of
easing the power-cuts, the situa-
tion overseas has grown no
easier.
Leaving out of the question
of whether Russia has the atom-
bomb —and evidence is accumu-
lating that she has some sort of
a bomb —there should be no
doubt about Moscow’s inten-
tions.
Mr. Averill Harriman, a
former Ambassador to Washing-
ton and at one stage one of the
staunchest friends the U.S.S.R.
had in the Western World, re-
marked during the week that he
was convinced that Russia was
“bent on aggression.”
The whole pattern of Russian
movements since the war has
suggested it. Her expansions,
stealthy and dishonest, have had
the effect of a great encircling
movement against Southern Asia
and the bulk of Europe. At two
points in the world her strategy
has been, in effect, to extend
two arms 8000 miles apart to
scoop in everything within reach.
On the European side the ex-
tension has been towards the
Mediterranean and the oilfields
and has involved the inclusion of
the satellite countries of Eastern
Europe from Finland on the
Arctic Ocean to Bulgaria, Greece
and Italy on the Mediterranean
into the Russian zone.
On the East the extension has
materialised in the Communist
campaigns in China, Japan,
Indo-China, Malaya, Burma and
Indonesia. In all those areas
the activity has obviously been
directed by the one set of minds,
and in the light of 25 years of
organisation of the Pan-Pacific
Trade-union Secretariat, much
of it done from Australia, there
is little doubt as to where the
ultimate guidance comes from.
One important operation, for
which it will be difficult to for-
give President Roosevelt, who
did the giving-way at Yalta, has
been the handing-over to Russia
of the Kurile Islands, which
stretch from the tip of Kam-
chatka to the eastern tip of
Hokkaido in the Japanese area.
That chain of islands has been
under fortification ever since
1945, and they will be a very
important factor in any hostili-
ties which affect Japan, Eastern
Siberia or Alaska.
The explosive factors, how-
ever, are momentarily in Europe.
The defection of Yugoslavia and
the failure to subdue Greece and
Italy and to take over France,
as had been hoped, have given
the Soviet Union a severe set-
back calculated to rouse the
anger of its leaders and produce
in them an ursine sulkiness
and stubbornness which might
lead to almost anything.
The Tito Mystery
The Yugoslav situation is still
difficult to understand. Tito and
the Russians talk to each other
much in the same tone that
Garden and Sharkey used to use
towards each other in the early
’thirties when the pair were work-
ing together under Moscow
orders in the closest accord in
developing the Pan - Pacific
Trade-union Secretariat, though
Sharkey and his associates
violently abused Garden in pub-
lic and gave a quite illusory im-
pression that civil war to the
death was in progress between
Garden and his erstwhile sub-
jects of the Communist party.
Tito continually seeks the
confidence of the West, but not
in a very practical way. At in-
tervals Moscow abuses him as
a traitor, but he never abuses
Moscow and is particularly chary
of saying anything impolite
about Stalin. His attitude to
the Soviet Union is purely de-
fensive.
Recently he has broadly hinted
that he expects to be attacked,
using this as the basis for a
veiled invitation to the Western
Powers to pour support into his
lap. He has now, following the
death of Dmitrov, prophesied
that Bulgaria and Albania will
shake off the chains of Russia
and join Yugoslavia in a Balkan
Communist bloc.
It should be noted that he
still lays great stress on the fact
that he is Communist, And he
can scarcely be Communist in
the understood sense of the
world without being an inter-
nationalist looking for world
revolution and the liquidation of
the idea of individual nations.
There are various possibili-
ties in his attitude. He may be
quite genuine. He may have
been ordered by Moscow to
take his present stand in order
to frighten adjacent nations
more closely into alliance with
Russia, since he obviously seems
to constitute a threat to the little
nations round about now that he
is out of the bloc.
It may be, also, that it was
found that the Serbs and the
Croats were not favorable to
domination and that the only
alternative to the garrisoning of
the country with Russian troops
“But I ALWAYS sign my paintings, sir.”
was for Tito to feign detachment
from the Soviet Union bloc.
The inhabitants of Yugoslavia
are nothing if not patriots. They
would find it particularly diffi-
cult to live in a bloc with Bul-
garia, since Bulgarians have
always been regarded by them as
, a lively dog regards cats.
Also, the Yugoslavs’ contacts
with the United States through
emigration have been so wide
and profitable that their eyes
turn in that direction rather than
towards Russia.
Whatever the relationships
between Russia and Yugoslavia,
the position there is dangerous
to the world. If Yugoslavia is
still deceitfully friendly to Mos-
cow, then there undoubtedly is
a game behind it all which bodes
no good for the West.
And if Tito is really twisting
the bear’s tail (if any) he is pro-
viding the Russians with an ex-
cuse to occupy his country and
thus push themselves to the
frontiers of Italy and within
easy reach of France, besides
giving them a sizeable stretch
of the Danube, which they
would be anxious to have com-
pletely under their control, and
some other advantages.
Trouble in the Ukraine
One element in the Russian
situation about which little is
being said is the Ukraine. That
unfortunate country has been
held in duress, but has never
been an easy captive to handle.
It is the richest part of European
Russia, and in view of the
poverty of the rest of Western
Russia it is for ever being
stripped of its resources, a fea-
ture of Bolshevism to which its
40,000,000 inhabitants strongly
object.
During the war the Germans
succeeded in forming a sub-
stantial army of Ukrainians to
fight against the Russians —at a
time when the Australian Com-
munist party was trumpeting
that there was no “fifth-column
in Russia.” This was com-
manded by General Vassilov,
and was the biggest fifth-column
that existed in any country.
In 1946 it was alleged in
Europe that after the reconquest
of the Ukraine the Russians had
dealt ruthlessly with the areas
from which Vassilov’s troops
had come and that whole com-
munities to the tune of millions
from the Bug River and San
districts were being deported to
the Baltic shores to replace the
displaced Latvians, Estonians
and East Prussians who had been
sent to Siberia or wiped out.
It was then reported that
guerrilla forces, calling them-
selves the Ukrainian Independ-
ence Army, were operating, de-
stroying crops and generally
doing their best to make the
position of Communism unten-
able.
Marshal Zhukov, the principal
Russian military commander,
was sent to the command at
Odessa, a fact which was inter-
preted in many hopeful quarters
as meaning that he had fallen
into disgrace. All it seems to
have signified was that the situ-
ation in the Ukraine was such
as to demand the presence of a
first-class man on the spot.
In the last two months there
have been a number of reports
of the operations of bands of
Ukrainian guerrillas operating to
the confusion of discipline
among the population.
Since they work from the
valleys of the Carpathians and
the swamps of the Pripet and
can slip in and out of Poland
and Czechoslovakia without
much difficulty, they have, not
been easy to deal with, especi-
ally seeing that there must be
large numbers of Poles and
Czechs and Slovaks who sympa-
thise with them.
General Zhukov is still sup-
posed to be at Odessa, and some
of the military activity which is
reported from that corner of
Russia and which often is inter-
preted as being designed for ex-
ternal purposes, may be wrapped
up with the Ukrainian position.
However, the whole of Europe
grows more and more uneasy.
The Atlantic Pact Complete
During the week the Atlantic
Pact was completed by its en-
dorsement by the Dutch legisla-
ture on a vote on which there
were only two dissentients. The
12 member-States are now in
unity, and the conferences be-
tween Admiral Denfield, of the
U.S. Navy, U.S. Chiefs of Staff
and the European defence groups
are going ahead rapidly. The
arrangements with Britain and
the Scandinavian Powers are
complete, and discussions with
other Powers were in hand at
the weekend.
The great problem, however,
is manpower. The Atlantic
Allies, in view of the scattered
nature of the Atlantic bloc, the
large numbers who must be em-
ployed in the provision of food
and transport and Russia’s ad-
vantages in being able to apply
slave-labor methods which would
not be tolerated in a civilised
country, will find it necessary to
use their population to the last
available drain to be secure.
The King gave a prompt
D.S.O. to the captain of H.M.S.
Amethyst, Lieut.-Commander
Kerans, but the young man prob-
ably got his greatest thrill out
of leading the R.N. squadron
with which he joined up into
Hong Kong Harbor. It is only
once in a generation that a
captain of a sloop has that honor
thrust upon him.
* * * *
The war in China continues
to be a mist-hung business.
None of the operations can be
seen clearly, but before the
weekend the Communists
claimed to have captured Chang-
sha and to be filtering steadily
southward towards Canton and
Hong Kong. Between North
China and the outer world the
iron curtain is down, though it
seems clear that in Shanghai the
Communists have shed their
velvet gloves and have begun to
make life there for Europeans,
and particularly British and
Americans, untenable.
* * * *
On August 3 fresh cease-fire
orders were prescribed for Dutch
and Republican forces in Java
and Sumatra. One week is to
be allowed to reach a state of
quiescence in Java and 11 days
in Sumatra. The U.N.O. Com-
mission is now satisfied that all
will be well and that the Dutch
will be robbed of the Indies in
accordance with the aspirations
of Dr. Evatt and his friends.


ALWAYS WITHIN
ARM’S REACH!
“Simplex” Soda Acid Ex-
tinguisher. For fires in ordinary
combustible materials.
“Simplex” Foam Extin-
guisher, For incipient fires in
small quantities of flammable
liquids, greases, etc.
w
‘‘Simplex” CTC Auto Extinguisher.
For use on motor vehicles and small
electrical fires.
“Simplex” One Gallon Type CTC
Extinguisher. For fires in electrical
equipment such as switchboards.
A complete range of “Lux” CO2 Fire
Extinguishers is available.
SIMPLEX
FIRE EXTINGUISHERS
A product of
WORMALD BROTHERS
In your home, office, factory, ware-
house, car or yacht, a “Simplex”
Fire Extinguisher means instant
fire protection always within arm’s
reach. Just turn it upside down . . .
hose that fire out.
Insurance Companies rebate on fire
rates for buildings equipped with
4 ‘Simplex’ ’ Extinguishers.
Wormald Brothers have specialised
in Fire Protection Engineering since
1889. The advice of experienced
engineers is available on all classes
of fire risk.
All “ Simplex ” models comply with the specifi-
cations of the Standards Association of Australia
and the Fire Underwriters' regulations. Supplied
to the Navy, Army , Air Force and Common-
wealth and State Governments.
PTY. LTD.
_ Sydney, Newcastle, Brisbane, Townsville, _
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth, Hobart,
Wellington, Auckland, Christchurch, Dunedin.


SdNVI A3IIII
WATCH FOR—
HAPPY MANTLES
THIS ENTIRELY NEW AND PATENTED
FEATURE OF GENUINE “ TILLEY ” MANTLES
WILL SURPRISE AND DELIGHT YOU.
NO MORE FIDDLING
WHEN FITTING!!
SUPPLIES ARE NOW ON THE WAY TO
AUSTRALIA FROM OUR FACTORY.
ASK YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR, IF IN ANY
DIFFICULTY, WRITE TO OUR AUSTRALIAN
REPRESENTATIVES
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, CL
ttte
REGD,
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIUDTOP, A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers Jor lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on 0,0,D, Orders,
T*
4
\\r
BLEMISHES
and soreness mar
the beauty of
_ ieft<n and com-
plexion ! Use Cuticota
, Soap regularly its
antiseptic and medicinal pro*
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.^
ẁ
SUNDRY SHOWS
Sali Herman’s paintings at
David Jones’s Gallery, Sydney,
are far more attractive than any-
thing he has previously exhi-
bited, There is still a consider-
able acreage of slums ; the prac-
tically unvarying blue sky re-
mains a formula rather than an
observation; and the plump
yellow fish in “Aquarium” look
too much like canaries to be
taken seriously. But, increas-
ingly in the slum paintings, as in
“Backyards,” with its mass of
green creeper, its woman sweep-
ing the streets, its cat bailed up
by a dog and its homely and in-
dispensable outhouse, there is the
richness of life —which is more
important in a work of art than
the abstract arrangement of
buildings. Among the ruins,
such as “Chinaman’s Garden,”
there is the redeeming warmth
of sun on old brick. There are
imagination and gaiety in the
windmills which fly like mad
birds in some of the landscapes ;
and “Cornershop,” with its hang-
ing balcony, and “Churchyard,”
with its ancient and toppling
tombstones, are, without being
childish, like scenes from a fairy-
tale. Perhaps, as time goes on,
Sali Herman grows on the ob-
server ; or perhaps Australia is
growing in the artist.
* * * *
At Sydney Macquarie Gal-
leries Jean Appleton offers an
assortment in oils of flowers,
nudes, storms, slums and ruins,
among which, despite the rather
wooden petals of roses and ran-
unculas, the flowerpieces are the
best particularly “Breakfast
Table,” which has not only the
artist’s usual rich reds but an
unusual glowing quality in the
color and a sparkle of morning
light. The landscapes, mostly
of old, ruined or deserted build-
ings in a setting of storm, are
frequently painted too stickily
and, lacking the dramatisation of
light that is possible in storm-
subjects, look curiously old-
fashioned : powerful, but with a
sort of mid-Victorian heaviness.
“Storm Over Mamre,” with its
ghostly buildings looking like
the sort of place one visits in a
nightmare, is the most effective.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Rosaleen Norton’s
drawings at Melbourne Uni-
versity, which are to be the sub-
ject of a prosecution, comprise
devils, saints and satyrs. Some
—at a considerable technical
distance —show traces of the in-
fluence of Norman Lindsay;
others of Blake; and they are
still more like Middle Ages
sculpture, a book on which is in
the library where Miss Norton’s
paintings are hanging. But the
quality of Miss Norton’s draw-
ing is nearer technical-college
art school, and consequently she
can’t make her subject-matter
live as vividly as Rembrandt
did in such etchings as “The
Monk in the Cornfield” or “The
French Bed,” which are avail-
able at Melbourne National
Gallery. Translated into stone
and put into the nave of a
Gothic cathedral her exhibition
would pass without notice.
A selection of H. A. Hanke’s
oils from a decade would make
a far stronger impression than
his present collection at Sydney
Grosvenor Galleries, which is
presumably an accummulation
of recent works. Hanke paints
all kinds of subjects—landscapes,
seascapes, still life, nudes, pirates
—and perhaps this versatility is
an indication that he does not
care very deeply about any of
them; or, rather, that it; is only
at comparatively rare intervals
that he is really moved to exert
his full powers. The work,
generally, is pleasant and broadly
competent but lacking in finesse
of brushwork and intensity of
feeling. A higher level is
reached in “Summer,” with the
hot colors of the scorched bush,
and in “River Flats, Jugiong,”
where, in a setting of delicately-
painted gums and willows, the
sheep, the fallen timber and the
colors of the earth make a har-
mony in grey and brown.
* * * *
Musica Viva presented at
Sydney Con, two more in the
Beethoven string quartet series:
the No. 6 of Op. 18 and the F
Major from the Rasumovsky set
of Op. 59. The first was given
with loving care, the players
bringing out with fine clarity of
tone the succession of lovely airs
and weaving the four threads
into a pattern of beauty. In the
Rasumovsky of Beethoven’s
middle period the accent was on
the dramatic element, shot
through at times, especially in
the slow sections, with no little
devotional strain. This was
quartet playing of a high order.
Sandwiched between these works
was the Brahms C Minor Trio,
Op. 101, in which Maureen
Jones was the alert and well-
equipped pianist. This compact,
well-knit work with its emphasis
on masculine vigor was played
with almost the perfect synchro-
nisation and precision it calls
for, and with due regard for the
restless spirit inherent in the
opening section.
* * * *
In Sydney Independent’s pro-
duction of “The Old Maid,” a
dramatisation by Zoe Atkins of
a novel by Edith Wharton,
Diana Perryman plays the girl
who ditched the bad-hat artist
whom she loved and married
money; and Junee Cornell acts
the plain Jane who consoled the
bad-hat artist, had his baby and
was forced to depend for the
rest of her life on Miss Perry-
man’s bounty. The play be-
comes a duel between Miss
Perryman and Miss Cornell for
the affections of the bad-hat
artist’s daughter; and in such
an ironic situation what one
missed was a sense of irony in
the acting from two prefects
of a girl’s school it would have
been unexceptionable; from
two experienced actresses it was
only passable. Maybe because
of the strike, the scene-shifting
in the second interval took more
than half an hour of the audi-
ence’s time on the night The
Bulletin attended; but the
thoroughgoing excellence of the
nursery-school and the drawing-
room scenes was some compen-
sation for the wait, and indeed
the whole show was good enter-
tainment.
Wants.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
To buy “Concinnum” cigarette-
roller.—4677.
Correspondence with circus fans in
Australia and New Zealand.—467o.
Clerical position in Victoria re-
quired by single West Australian (35),
good refs., whose family is at present
residing in Melbourne.—467l.
Words of poem “The God-forgotten
Election. ”—4672.
To buy copy of For the Term of
His Natural Life by Marcus Clarke.—
4673.
Words of poem “Wonga,” begin-
ning “Old Wonga’s skin is as black
as 5in.”—4674.
Words of poem “Out of the
North,” beginning “Out of the north
a shadow blocking the light of day.”
—4675.
Words of poem “The Horses of
Li Si Yin,” beginning “More than a
thousand years ago, far away in the
land of Chin.”—4676.
Information Sought.
Did Sam Langford ever win a
world boxing championship ? If not,
was he of world-championship
calibre ?
Langford never fought for a world
boxing championship because the
champions refused to meet him. He
outpointed Joe Gans over 15 rounds
in 1903, when Gans was world’s
lightweight champion, but Langford
was a few pounds heavier than the
lightweight limit of 9st. 71b., so Gans
retained his title. He also drew with
Joe Walcott (critics claimed Langford
should have got the decision) in 1904,
and Walcott had just lost the world’s
welterweight championship. Jack
Johnson outpointed Langford over
15 rounds in 1906, but after Johnson
beat Tommy Burns for the world’s
heavyweight championship, in 1908,
he refused many offers to meet Lang-
ford again.
**♦ . *
A simple method of cleaning
poultry feathers before use as filling
for pillows?
Place the feathers in a bag made
from old mosquito-net or sheeting,
or tied up in similar material by the
four corners, and leave plenty of
room for free movement. Plunge
them up and down in hot, soapy
water containing a little ammonia,
and rinse freely in fresh water. With-
out removing feathers from con-
tainers, place on a netting rack or
hang on line to dry in hot, windy
weather, and turn and shake fre-
quently until perfectly dry; may take
a day or two. Dampness will lead
to mould, so drying should be
thorough. If very dirty, or infested
with insects, add a small quantity of
disinfectant to first washing-water.
* * * *
(1) What does an amateur radio
licence cost? (2) Are the No. 11
transreceiving sets as advertised for
£l2 10s. through disposals successful
over ranges of 800 miles, using a
6-volt wet battery? (3) If two sets
were purchased could any reduction
be obtained for the licence?
(1) £1 per year for an amateur-
station licence, but a licence shall not
be granted to a person unless in
possession of an amateur operator’s
or a first- or second-class aircraft or
commercial operator’s certificate of
proficiency. A syllabus covering the
subjects of examination for any of
the above certificates may be ob-
tained, in your case, from the
Superintendent, Wireless, G.P.0.,
Brisbane, or the District Radio In-
spector at Townsville. (2) Yes, prob-
ably at night-time, depending on the
frequency, type of aerial used and
interference. (3) No reduction would
be granted for the issue of two
licences. •
Brief Answers.
J.D.: (1) Supply and demand. (2)
According to fluctuation in general
trading, such as the 1931 depression.
(3) Only valuation by a recognised
expert... . D.G.C.: Send your address
and we will post cremation details.
G.S.: His address is St. Paul’s-
terrace, Fortitude Valley, Brisbane.
...-A.M.R.: It is not possible to
solder aluminium satisfactorily with-
out considerable skill and experience,
and even then the soldered joints are
very prone to corrosion. The most
satisfactory method of repairing
aluminium sheet would be to give
the job to some firm experienced in
aluminium welding J.H.: Unable
to offer any suggestions which would
assist in overcoming the natural
weathering effect on stonework. There
is a natural oxidisation of the stone
and discoloration from dust and
smoke which is difficult, if not im-
possible, to control E. 0.5.: An
executor cannot act under a will
until he has obtained probate. Costs
depend entirely on value and nature
of estate... .G.M.8.: He is not en-
titled to give any such notice. You
are at liberty to erect your half of
the fence, supplying your own labor
and materials, and leave him to erect
his own half at his own expense.
You can alternatively let him erect
the whole fence and then cost of
labor and materials can be ascer-
tained and you would be liable for
one half. Notice need not be served
personally.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
D.A.N.; She wasn’t quite our type,
either... ,A. 0.: Cogs and cams:
cogs and cams V.R.: No clink of
coin for “Clink of Bridle” A.H.:
Try not to hit pins on the head with
steam-hammers 1.M.W.: Not un-
less you can prove Eureka didn’t hap-
pen, or something new like that
L.W.; “Goldie” had promise, but
fulfilled too much G.S.; We’re
properly suspicious of any story en-
titled “You’re Telling Me” C.H.:
The idea’s there, but the people
aren’t H.W.: Ducks ducked off.
.... A.G.O’D.: Would have to bring
it down to a paragraph A.J.S.:
“Almost Murder” wasn’t nearly....
R.A.; Poor pi’ Joe A.W.: Nice,
but slight E.T.M.H.: “The
Chump” chopped A.J.; Not quite.
L.H.: When they’ve got nothing to
live for, you’ve got very little to
write for... .C.L.H.: It is snoring
gently in the basket W.J.S. : Sorry,
but your jackass and magpie can’t
“chatter through the day” in our
columns L. 8.: Found the intro-
ductory text more interesting than the
poem C.L.M.: Frankly, we dread
the coming of spring. It brings with
it too many poems on the subject—
N.P.H.: To borrow a line from your
verse; “We cannot let you through.”


° |«Q
is
e
o*
ih&etle
0
REFILLS 2/11 EACH
SLEEK & LIGHT
Patent No. 122073 dated Dec. 8, 1943. Other patents pending.
The new British-made Biroette Ball
Point Pen, complete with cap and clip
costs a mere 15/-. You’ll admire the
graceful lines of Biroette—a newcomer to
the Biro family. You’ll like it because
it’s so slender . . . fits neatly in your pocket
or handbag . . . and so light ... it
glides over the paper like thistle-down.
Biroette is available in three attractive
colours, black, grey and maroon. The refills
are specially designed for long life. You
can buy as many as you want for 2/11 each.
Test the Biroette today . . . see how
effortlessly it writes.
At Stationers, Jewellers and Stores
PISHiNG - SHOOTING - YACHTING
ORLIK
■
P „
STORM PRO<
/ FULLY GUARANTEED
( LIGHTS EVERY TIME
.... \ Available at all leading
tobacconists and stores (
jj Australian Agents: \<m
CYCUJ4<S~SOiFIHO-mOtOIHN6
Maurice Newstead Pty. Ltd., Sydney.
Leonard F. Newstead Pty. Ltd., Melb.
ẃ
i
& V 1 \
I
I
VS
•**
f *
TJae Ibest age*®
The training of a gun dog should begin as
soon as he starts losing his puppy ways. He
may be able to work intelligently at about one
year, and should be at his best for keenness,
steadiness, intelligence and hard work from
about 3 years until old age makes him too slow.
• UK
A whisky enters its prime from the
age of five years onwards. Maturity
gives it fine bouquet and mellow flavour. Corio
Special is aged for over five years (more
than double the minimum prescribed by
Commonwealth law).
Corio Special
Whisky at its prime .
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
In neither Sydney nor Melbourne
do the present transport difficulties
appear to have had any marked
effect upon attendances at race meet-
ings, or, for that matter, other
sporting fixtures. At Caulfield on
Saturday there was a real Cup-day
crowd to see the well-fancied Elastin
easily win the 1949 Australian
Hurdle. #
B. R. Smith, leading cross-country
rider of the moment, chose to ride
Faiz Effendi in the Hurdle, which
was surprising in view of that geld-
ing s hopeless recent form and a
starting price of 66 to 1. However,
it seemed that Smith’s judgment was
not far astray. Jumping into the lead
from the start, Faiz Effendi made a
bold bid to steal the race. Half-a-
dozen lengths clear of Friar of Thrace
and Man o’ War at the mile, the
bolter had doubled that lead as they
passed the 3-furlongs mark, and
looked very hard to run down. How-
ever, a couple of furlongs earlier
Elastin, ridden by E. Sellars, had
commenced a forward move, and,
rapidly making up his considerable
leeway, took the final fence almost
on terms with Faiz Effendi. In the
run home Elastin cleared right away
to win by four lengths from Faiz
Effendi, with the 80-to-l chance Kub-
badar third, followed closely by the
complete outsider Red Rambler (100
to 1).
Apart from Elastin, the most
strongly-fancied runners in the Hurdle
were Latani (11-to-4 favorite) and
Chatsol (at fours, as was Elastin);
neither at any stage gave backers a
glimmer of hope. The tangible physi-
cal aspects of racing form are quite
sufficiently hard to follow without
delving into equine psychology, but
Chatsol gives the impression that his
first attempt at the big steeplechase
fences (in the Grand National) may
have cured his taste for the jumping
game. Chatsol has had only four
runs over jumps; at his first two
starts he won the Federal and the
Grand National Hurdles in effortless
fashion. Next up he looked all at
sea in the Grand National Steeple,
and ran not a whit better in Satur-
day’s race. His rise in the weights
may have had something to do with
it, but going up from 10.2 to 11.5
should not spell the difference between
a brilliant win in the National Hurdle
and a miserable stone-last in the Aus-
tralian.
Briar was favorite for the Godfrey
Watson Steeple, with Port Phillip,
Lord Minto and Worrowing also well
in the market. The bunch of them
were run right off their legs by the
11-year-old Cimranda, who, leading
most of the trip, won by a couple of
lengths from Worrowing and Lord
Minto. Though faulty jumping is
scarcely much of an excuse for failure
in a jumping race, Lord Minto looked
certain to have won had he not blun-
dered the second-last fence, and he
was, consequently, at time of writing,
favorite for the Australian Steeple,
with Cimranda next in favor. This
page’s fancy, however, is Autocles,
who failed in the Grand National,
but has otherwise been consistently
near the money.
Pleasing to see return to the win-
ning list in the 6-furlongs Moondah
Plate, River Hero, a beautifully bred
and very capable sprinter, though,
due to dicky legs, the despair of any
trainer. River Hero shared the lead
"Got a match?”
all the way with Royal .Hero, and
had a neck to spare at the fiiysh,
with Gilweil third. Favorite Chahak,
with 9.7, finished the closest of
fourths, the weight being simply too
much, while Ellerslie, fresh from a
spell, promised well for the near
future. Ex-Sydney gallopers Stamen
(R. Hutchinson) and Flue Legend
shared the finish of the 12-furlongs
Balaclava Stakes, , the favorite,
Stamen, winning by a 'half-length,
and Mile End (A. Breasley), also a
favorite, won the Mornington Welter.
* * * *
At Eagle Farm on Saturday main
events were the weight-for-age
National Plate (lOf.) and the Ascot-
Handicap (6f.). With only five
starters the Plate saw the odds-on
favorite Phoibos beaten three-parts
of a length by Rio Fe, who has
proved himself a so much better horse
in Brisbane that it’s a wonder connec-
tions ever bother racing him in the
south. In the Ascot Handicap the
English horse One Up turned in the
best performance seen here from an
importation in many a day; -smartly
ridden by Peter Morgan, One Up
scored from San Domenico and
Ballyvista. San Domenico is a better-
than-average sprinter, but he had
the misfortune to be hailed as “an-
other Phar Lap” at the beginning of
his career, and has been handicapped
as such ever since. On Saturday
San Domenico carried 9.8 to the
winner’s 7.7.
* * * *
A generally poor trot over the final
weeks of the season just concluded
put J. Thompson beyond any chance
of overhauling Sellwood in the joc-
keys’ premiership. However, Thomp-
son started off the new season on the
right leg at Canterbury on Saturday
with three winners and a second from
seven races.
Probably the best of Thompson’s
wins was on the Gold Rod gelding
Golden Plumes in the 9-furlongs
Canterbury Handicap. The outcome
of the race really depended upon
whether Thompson or W. Hughes (on
Tamasha) was first to take advantage
of a narrow opening which presented
at the top of the straight; Thompson
got there first, and went on to defeat
Valiant Crown by less than a length.
Trying for a run between the two
leaders as they neared the post, the
doubly unlucky Tamasha was knocked
back again when Valiant Crown
lugged in.
Following an utter failure when he
was heavily backed at Randwick on
Bank Holiday, Cognac (G. Podmore)
showed no end of improvement to
win the Frederick Clissold Handicap
very easily from Trover and Mona’s
Choice. Connections’ explanation of
Cognac’s improvement was that an
attempt had been made to ride him
a restrained race at Randwick, but,
after seeing the result of those tactics,
his Canterbury rider, G. Podmore,
was instructed to let the horse run
his own race; Cognac chose to lead
all the way.
East being East and West West,
according to the poet, it is difficult
to see "whence the name Beau China
for a son of Beaupartir-Western
Pearl. Howsoever, the three-year-old
who bears this mis-orientated
monicker is a promising colt of stay-
ing vein, and there was no disputing
the manner of his winning the Three-
and Four-year-old Fixed Weight
Maiden over nine furlongs. Giving
Thompson another, Beau China won
by a modest six lengths from Dixie
Belle and Annabel Lee. Beau China
is now, of course, proclaimed as a
Derby prospect, and, for that matter,
it might not take any champion to
win the classic this year.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) :
Three-year-old: Purple Prince, 1;
Beau China, 2; Aqua Regis, 3. Ash-
bury Mixed (6f.): Susan, 1; Count
Aulone, 2; Gay Charm, 3. Campsie
Mixed: Maranga, 1; Tithonus, 2;
Delaware, 3. Flying: Star Vite, 1;
Cognac,' 2; Hisign, 3. Canterbury
Park Handicap: Tamasha, 1; Far-
had, 2; Hava Chat, 3. Welter:
Messenger, 1; Barita, 2; Buzmark, 3.
*.* * *
The Religious Editor, who claims
that more men have been driven to
drink by golf than by beaten favor-
ites, heartily endorses Mr. Justice
Street’s delightful definition of the
game, which was embodied in a judg-
ment delivered in the Supreme Court
last week:
“The game involves propulsion of
a small, hard ball by various types
of percussion instruments, resulting
in the ball reaching a high rate of
speed over considerable distances. In
view of human frailty of physical
make-up it is impossible to control
with complete accuracy the flight of
the ball, which is apt, at times, to
take an erratic course.”
* * * *
Determined not to repeat the close
shave they had in the first Soccer
Test in Sydney, the Yugoslav tourists
turned on the pressure in the second
Test at Melbourne Cricket Ground
and coasted home three goals to nil.
Wherever they go the visitors are
drawing good crowds; 12,000 was
the tally on Saturday.
* * * *
Something must be done about St.
Kilda in the V.F.L.; the Seasiders
are in open revolt against being the
League’s chopping-block. Having
somewhat cruelly mauled Richmond
Tigers a week earlier, they fell upon
Geelong on Saturday, beat them
10.9-8.12, and thereby threw span-
ners into the workings of “the four.”
Melbourne, which just holds a place,
has to meet St. Kilda next Saturday,
and from Victoria-street to the river
worry is manifest, for Melbourne
failed by a goal against North, 9.10-
8.10, and North, looking more like
a premiership side than any other
team, now shares the lead with
Collingwood. ’Wood was at home to
Carlton, hitherto the top team;
the Blues bottled up the Magpies’
short game until the last spasm, when
tearaway tactics, an ounce of luck
and straight kicking gave ’Wood the
day by three points, 7.16 to 7.13.
Essendon meantime slogged it out
with Richmond to win 11.12-7.14;
Footscray fumbled its way to a 10.14-
8.10 win over South Melbourne; and
Fitzroy duly disposed of Hawthorn,
10.19-8.17. It left Collingwood,
North, Carlton, Melbourne, Essen-
don, Fitzroy and Geelong in the
running.
* * * *
University, the only team within
shooting distance of Gordon in the
Sydney Rugby Union comp., had a
close go with St. George at the
’Varsity Oval on Saturday. With a
couple of minutes to go the score
was 17-all when the Uni. full-back
Wileman booted a penalty goal in
which the ball hit the crossbar before
bouncing over; 20-17. Wests v. East-
wood was another close game, Wests
winning 13-11, but Manly walked
over Parramatta and Randwick did
likewise to Drummoyne, the final
score in both matches being 26-8.
Leading University in the comp’, by
26 points to 24, Gordon had a bye
on Saturday, and will meet Univer-
sity and St. George in the remaining
rounds.
* * * *
Non-stop slather-and-whack offers
the best description of the Leichhardt
bout in which auld acquaintances'
Nipper O’Brien (9.11) and Billy Lord
(9.8£) came to blows for the second
time in a fortnight. Punches were
slung at a rate of about 60-per-
minute, but O’Brien usually got in
first, and eventually received a clear
and well-received points decision.


Get Winter Warmth with . , .
MORRIS “CENTRAL” RADIATORS
Economical, Mobile, Central Heating
The Morris All-British “Central” Radiators give the comfort of
“Central Heating” without heavy installation costs. They’re mobile,
too. Being water filled, they do not draw any moisture from the
air. For the town and city, there is the electric Morris “Radfire,”
which can be used as a radiator or direct ray fire or both. This
radiator is illustrated at right. Shown at left is the oil radiator,
ideal for heating houses in the country where no electricity or gas
is laid on, and is operated by an “ODOURLESS” precision blue
flame kerosene burner.
ẅ
Morris “Central” Radi-
ators are mounted on ball-
bearing: castors and can be
wheeled from room to room
with ease and perfect safety.
Manufacturers and Patentees—Morris Heating Appliances Ltd.,
S Netherton Grove, London, S.W. 10.
Trade inquiries invited. Stocks available in Sydney or Melbourne.
Sole Agent: —
L. D.BESTON
387 KENT STREET, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Telephone: M 3626. Cables; “Beston,” Sydney.
Melbourne Office: 3rd Floor, 34 Queen Street. 'Phone: MB 1351.
w
Tasmanian Stockists:
William L. Buckland Pty., Ltd.,
88 Charles Street, LAUNCESTON, and
67 Liverpool Street, HOBART.
ŵ
DUPLICATOR
Hat all the finest features
ct high-priced Imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion oi their cost The
"National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans,
Music, etc.
Built entirely In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Oittrlbullitg 4gtmu—
ITVNIT
HtUOUKNI
ADfUIOt
rim
W. C. Penfold A Co. Tlj. Ltd.
. Norman Brat. Plf Ltd.
. Vardan A Sant Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. (Anil. J
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
v*
m
wm
m
m
4oz„, Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
r
t
f)rf
Your choice ti CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste ts fof
■weet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
ẁ
ẃ
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAXCOS."
Post-J.O. Wool-marketing.
“Outback”: The National
Council of Wool - selling
Brokers has just issued a
considered opinion on the
reserve-price plan for wool,
and, although many will regard
this as an “interested” state-
ment, it is worth careful con-
sideration. No one will dis-
agree with the council’s state-
ment that “in the long run no
marketing system can ensure a
higher price for wool than its
economic position justifies, and
any attempt to appreciate its
price by artificial means would
probably defeat its own ends by
stimulating improvement in and
the use of substitutes.” When
the Australian Woolgrowers’
Council appointed a committee
to inquire into wool-marketing
when J.O. ceases to function, the
committee was asked to investi-
gate “the question of wool-
marketing and make recom-
mendations designed to minimise
violent fluctuations, and to bring
about stability in wool values,”
That committee- has recom-
mended “the adoption of a
system of organised marketing
embodying a reserve price, deter-
mined at the beginning of each
season and related to general
commodity prices.” The com-
mittee “attached the utmost im-
portance to the preservation of
the maximum freedom of inter-
national trade in wool,” and for
this reason “believed that the
open auction system of wool-
selling must be maintained.”
The fixing of a reserve price
will present many difficulties, but
growers do not desire a return
to the conditions which prevailed
during the depression,
when wool was at prices which
bore no relation to production
costs. In the depth of the de-
pression wool which cost from
lOd, to Is. per lb. to produce was
being sold at 8d. per lb., and all
associated with the trade must
see that this state of affairs is
avoided in future. Production
costs in the wool industry are
continually increasing, and in the
Brisbane Arbitration Court on
July 19, an employers’ advocate
stated that he made the cost of
producing a pound of wool to-
day 26d., but added that “others
said he was far too low.”
The reserve prices operating
under the J.O. plan would have
returned very little profit if it
costs 26d, to produce a lb. of
wool, but, fortunately, demand
for wool has been buoyant, and
“reserve price” and “production
costs” have not come into the
picture. This happy state of
affairs will not, however, con-
tinue for all time, and the pros-
perity of the wool industry will
depend upon the wisdom dis-
played by all sections when a
plan is being formulated to take
over when J.O. sells its last wool.
Honey-grading.
“Don Drone”: Here is a
tentative scheme on the basis of
quality characteristics. Two
essential points are setting-up and
standardisation of grades. The
characters which must be taken
into account are: Color, flavor,
density, consistency, source,
freedom from foreign matter
and from objectionable odors or
flavors.
Owing to the dominance of
source factor in our honey the
following grades are suggested:
Grade I.— (a) yellow-box ; ( b )
eucalypt; (c) native flora; (and)
introduced flora. Grade 2.
Manufacturing.
Grade la is to include honey
from yellow-box only, lb from
eucalypts other than yellow-box,
1c from native flora other than
eucalypts and Id from intro-
duced flora. Further subdivision
of this latter grade into (say)
clover, orchard, etc., seems to
be unwarranted, and would only
complicate the system without
improving the general scheme.
Ranges of color, density, con-
sistency and freedom from wax
and pollen must be specified for
the three main grades, with a
possible tolerance of 3 p.c. to
5 p.c. All damage due to over-
heating, contaminants such as
oil, dirt, etc., will automatically
exclude the honey from any of
the above grades; tolerance —
zero.
Standardisation of grading
characteristics is readily done:
Color is determined by use of a
tinted glass or other type of com-
parator, such as is used in
U.S.A. Consistency may be
rapidly and accurately deter-
mined by a falling-sphere type
of viscometer. Freedom from
wax and pollen is measured by
passing the honey through
standard screens of a specified
number of meshes per inch.
Density is obtained by weighing
a measured gallon of honey and
is expressed as pounds per
gallon.
These determinations have the
advantages that they are easily
made by unskilled labor.
Freedom from contaminants is
checked by taste, smell and
visual examination; however,
the source of the honey would
have to be checked by a skilled
man, and in most processing
plants he could probably handle
all the other tests as well.
Differential rates should be
paid for the different grades, to
encourage production of top
quality—a stimulus very sadly
needed at the present time.
Blending by processors could
be allowed within a group, e.g.,
yellow-box with yellow-box, but
not between groups or grades, or,
if such blending is to be done,
the honey to be allotted to the
“Help! He's choking me!"
grade of the poorest constituent
of the blend. This could form
the basis of a more refined grad-
ing scheme.
Expanding Areas.
“He-Ne”: In spite of closer-
settlement in N.S.W. farms are
tending to increase in area. Thus
economic conditions are proving
more important than year-to-
year politics. The average farm
in N.S.W. (excluding the western
division) was 975 acres in 1914 ;
by 1946 it had increased 32 per
cent, to 1285 acres. While dairy-
farms along the coast showed
little change the area-increase
was marked on the Tablelands,
Western Slopes, Central Plains
and Riverina.
Since 1914 the number of very
large holdings has decreased,
and so has the number of small
holdings. In the past 20 years
farms of less than 1000 acres de-
clined in number by about
5600, whilst the number of 1000-
to 10,000-acre farms increased
by about 1650. Small farms have
declined because larger ones are
more efficient units of produc-
tion.
A similar trend is observable
in wheat-farms. In 1920, of all
holdings growing wheat for grain,
62 per cent, grew less than 200
acres annually. By 1948 this per-
centage had dropped to 38.
Similarly the proportion of
holdings growing 300 to 800
acres of grain increased from
18.7 per cent, in 1921 to 37 per
cent, in 1948. It suggests that
some sort of a living-area
standard has been set.
Who*!! Plant a Tree?
“C.S.”: It seems a reflection
on the men that so much of the
significant work being done to
awaken Australians to the need
for forests is being done by
women. Elyne Mitchell on her
Upper Murray farm, Jocelyn
Henderson of Holbrook, and
Judith Cassells of Sydney, each
in her way is making valuable
contributions to the heart-
breaking job of switching Aus-
tralians from tree-destruction to
tree-preservation and -planting.
It’s hard to say how much im-
pression these ladies have made,
but since women are the pro-
ducers and protectors of life it
ought to impress men that trees,
which are the preservers of the
nation’s soil-life, find champions
among the women.
Mrs. Mitchell’s Speak to the
Earth was. the prayer of one dis-
turbed for the beauty and value
of timber, Miss Henderson’s
Fire —or Water ? the expression
of one who has devoted a wealth
of time and money to a crusade
for community forests, and Miss
Cassells, 'who has hitherto con-
fined herself to running a tree
column in the “Land” news-
paper, now adds to the growing
chorus with a book. Let Us
Plant Trees, which supplements
the work of the others with
practical advice on the planting
of trees and all that goes with it.
Let Us Plant Trees should be
in the hands of everyone with
a bit of land, whether one or a
thousand acres. It should be
read by those who shudder at
our bare inland farms and other
spaces where a tree or two should
be standing. The author has
indexed it carefully and gone to
great trouble to gather her in-
formation, which is presented in
clear and forceful terms. No
wonder the Forestry Advisory
Council awarded her an
honorary life-membership for
her work in the cause of trees.
Adobe Building.
“E.H.S.”: The walls should
rest on a foundation of stone-
work carried up to at least 6in.
above ground-level and topped
with a damp-proof course. The
joints should be raked out to a
depth of about lin. to provide a
good key for the plaster. The
walls may be plastered with the
same material as the bricks are
composed of, or lime plaster if
preferred, and given two coats
of white- or color-wash de-
corated with line work or sten-
cilled designs. The walls may
be papered, but color-wash is
cheaper and more hygienic.
A durable, protective white-
wash for outside walls widely
used in U.S.A. and Mexico is
prepared as follows: Take a
half-bushel of unslaked lime,
slake with boiling water and
cover during the process to keep
in the steam. Strain through a
fine sieve and add 101 b. of salt,
previously well dissolved in
warm water, 31b. of ground rice
boiled to a thin paste and stirred
in boiling hot, 11b. of powdered
whiting apd 11b, of clean glue,
which has been previously .dis-
solved by soaking it well, and
then hanging it over a slow fire
in a small pot within a large one
filled with water. Add sgal. of
hot water, stir it well and let it
stand for a few days, covered
from dirt and dust. It should be
put on quite hot. When dry it
presents a glossy surface which it
retains for years.
The Working Horse.
“Myrrhee”: Horses need
stimulating food, and more of
it during winter. A stabled horse
on heavy work needs four kero.-
tins of chaff d day, three 71b.
tins of oats and, if available, a
sheaf of good oaten hay. In the
morning before work give
kero.-tins of chaff and a 71b.
measure of oats and at midday
a tin of chaff and another 71b.
of oats. At the end of the day
repeat the morning ration, top-
ping off with the hay a couple
of hours later.
If on ordinary work reduce
the oat ration to two 71b. mea-
sures ; if on light work, to one.
On off days feed a full ration
of chaff, but cut out the oats.
A turn on to pasture at week-
ends, with chaff three times a
day as usual, stimulates the
digestive organs and has a


£
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1927.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance hut lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary 00. Pty., Ltd., the bona fldes of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
NJS.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Yic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Qouth Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
Rural Distribution
TRANSFORMERS
are available for
short delivery
from
The English Electric Co.,
Ltd.,
131 York St., 189 William St.,
Sydney. Melbourne.
and agents in
Brisbane, Adelaide, Newcastle,
Hobart, Perth.
Rupture
Sufferers—try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
PR 171? or Ben< * stamp for
* IxEslZj FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and H days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole
year, yields 2001 b.; has 20ft. runners
loaded with large red tomatoes. Disease
and drought resistant. Sensation in
America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Kurnell, Sydney.
if vou
WERE
TRERE
Vou Keif
»&W:
r ?■
••• • • *
o > y~
**«*
. . . your wool could receive
no greater attention, for A.M.L.&F. experts are at work
in your interests at , every stage—valuing, lotting and
displaying your wool to the best advantage. You are
always assured of the best possible price when the
“A.M.L.&F. man” sells
your wool!
86 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863.
ẅ
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND S FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Brandies—N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrlna. Q’ld: Townsville!
Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents:
McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba. Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth.
w
RAIN GAUGES
and
Meteorological Instruments
Standard Sin.
with brass rim.
Rain Gauge
container and
£3/17/.
Standard Sin. with same parts
£l/18/6
measure.
Also Barometers, Thermom-
eters, Hygrometers, Maximum
and Minimum Thermometers
and Recording Instruments.
ŵ
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
42 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
a w a
I
aw
mm
ms
mm
wm
mmm
uVi'ifnK
mmmmm
JjggS
o ' * . * L'
u o
ALL PURPOSE: for light grading.. maintenance.. construction
All these jobs and many more make this popular ALLIS-CHALMERS’ W-SPEED
PATROL the most versatile light grading machine ever offered. It is also a real
money-saver—the engine is protected at all times from changing loads by a trigger-
quick fly-hall governor. Fuel is saved, wear is reduced and maintenance costs are
cut. The W-SPEED PATROL gives you Belt h.p.—26
Drawbar h.p., and is equipped with a 10ft. blade, ensuring
adequate strength plus speed with all light grading and
construction undertakings.
I
(rr^
MODEL H D - 1 9.
With fingertip hydraulic steer-
ing and Torque Converter,
balancing speed with load, it
has a drawbar pull of more
than 36,000 lbs. Faster, simpler
servicing, too.
ẁ
MODEL HD-5. 37 h.p., 11,000 lbs.
tractor—smallest of AC Crawler
range, featuring 2?cycle diesel
power with electric push-button
starting.
a
MODEL AD GRADER. A 2-cycle
diesel engine for road surfaces,
ditches, clearing camp sites, yards,
etc. Features full circle revolving
blade. Weight: 21.500 lbs.
fILIIS <S> OMIMERS
1 1/93.10
freshening, revitalising effect on
the horse.
Cattle Controversy.
“The Boss”; For the benefit
of “Rooster,” “K.T.” and some
others: E. J. Cranney, of
Queensland Guernsey Society
(B. 27/7/ ’49), was given the right
of reply in the battle of words
over dairy breeds because his
breed was accused (wrongly) of
being more susceptible to disease
than others. That ends it. All
breeds have their antagonists
and their champions, and they’re
not going to bawl at each other
in these pages.
Too Much Experimenting?
“Rooster”; Today the prac-
tical cattleman is in a dilemma.
For dairying purposes he must
produce as much milk as cheaply
as he can in an all-out effort to
offset the high cost of fertilisers,
feed and labor. But it’s not
much use producing double this
year if your herd is going to fold
up with exhaustion next year.
That is precisely what is meant
by the recent ruling of the
British Ministry of Agriculture
to ban the use of iodinated
casein. This substance is a
synthetic thyroxin which, fed to
dairy cows, speeds up the de-
velopment of young heifers and
increases the productivity of
mature beasts.
From a practical standpoint
these experiments are of little
value. They haven’t yet stood
the test of time. It’s doubtful
if they ever will. From a scien-
tific point of view the question
is primarily the reduction of the
animal to its specialised purpose.
This implies three things: (1)
Physical efficiency in the con-
version of foodstuffs to milk,
(2) elimination of secondary
products, and (3) regularity of
milk production.
Farmers are provided with a
useful working system whereby
to calculate the food require-
ments of animals whether they
are in production or not. If
this system is used intelligently,
much waste of nutrients can be
avoided, and there would be
little need for complaints con-
cerning the digestion of rumin-
ants. The prolonged health of
the cow, stud or scrub, depends
on this proper application of
maintenance rationing. In the
U.S.A. there’s a saying among
cattlemen that “calories coin the
dollars.” They also ensure long-
term healthiness in herds.
Elimination of secondary pro-
ducts and regularity of produc-
tion are problems which most
farmers confront from different
angles. The idea generally is to
bring cows into milk, in the
autumn, once a year. This
entails production of a calf,
which more often than not is
slaughtered soon after birth, and
whose gestation detracts from
the mother’s milk-production
during the lactation preceding its
birth. If they go on into winter
it would be difficult to regulate
servicing at all, since winter
heats last only a few hours.
Many cows don’t “bull” at all
during winter, or very in-
frequently, One can only regu-
late production on a more or
less systematic basis by calving
down all the heifers in the
autumn, so that as they grow
older their calving dates move
progressively forward through
the winter into the spring, the
natural time, but one when the
price of milk sharply falls.
Here again there has been ex-
perimenting. Energetic ovula-
tion can be prompted in winter
months by the use of stilboestrol.
Barren cows or maiden heifers
could be brought into produc-
tion of milk by injections of
hormones or synthetics. But
how many years would they last,
what would be the effect on the
long-term health of the animal,
and how would it react on pure-
bred stock? I agree with the
statement that, in regard to the
dairy cow, there has been “too
much tinkering.”
Hints for the Farm.
“Bai”; Walnuts are easily
grown, and are very valuable
whether used as dried nuts or
“pickled walnuts.” The timber
is valuable, too. They thrive
well in Australia. Ripe nuts
should be planted in pots of
sandy loam, and when the seed-
lings are large enough the
bottom of pot should be removed
and planting done without dis-
turbing the roots.
“N.E.S.”: Methylated spirits
may be saved and the preheat-
ing period of a primus-stove
prolonged if the preheating cup
is half-filled with lightly-packed,
moistened asbestos. Allow time
for it to dry and set into shape
before using. A still better job
is made by using thin copper-
wire to bind and stiffen the as-
bestos into a ring-shaped mass
which cannot fall out acci-
dentally. It lasts, a long time
under ordinary use.
“Calos”: Bare hillsides and
stony ridges are neither useful
nor beautiful, but can be made
so by planting trees suitable to
the locality. No better trees for
timber, honey or beauty can be
found than ironbark. The dark
variety has beautiful red blos-
soms, and the trees provide good
shade for stock as well as letting
fall twigs and leaves which con-
serve soil and form pockets in
which grass-seeds germinate.
Grey ironbark is specially valu-
able as a honey-producer, and
flowers from October to
January in inland areas.
“My”: Itch in horses’ legs is
caused by a mange mite which
lives on the hairy lower portions
of the horse’s leg. Clip the legs
and scrub into the affected parts
a kerosene emulsion (11b. of soft
soap in a gallon of hot water
and stir in one pint of kero, as
it cools). An alternative is loz.
of nicotine sulphate in one
gallon of soapy water. Repeat
the treatment in two weeks.
“K.T.”: Light and heavy
breed chicks do best when reared
apart. So also do light and dark
plumaged chicks, particularly
when the majority are dark, as
the light-colored ones are gener-
ally bullied. If artificially-
hatched chicks are given to
broodies to rear each should re-
ceive only chicks of one color.
A suitable number for one hen
is 18.
“Beroo”: Farmers in the
Mackay (Q.) district could do
well to copy the local Sugar Ex-
periment Station should they
want a dense, attractive, ever-
green hedge. This one is about
20ft. high and so dense that it
cannot be seen through. It will
stand lopping and trimming and
is not a greedy feeder in near-by
garden-beds. It is formed of
Callitris arenosa, the Bribie
Island pine, which can be easily
raised from seed.


Face Facts
V
48
SHAVING AREA
SQUARE INCHES
It may surprise you to know that
the shaving area of the average man’s face
is 40 square inches; but it is a fact. Every morning
your razor blade must shave one day’s growth of hair
from the uneven surface of your face.
Such work demands the keenest, strongest edge that
modern research and manufacture can produce.
Men vho face facts shave themselves quickly, simply,
end economically by using Blue Gillette Blades,
S>2
Good Mornings' begin with Gillette
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
TEN FOR 3/- FIVE FOR 1/6
I
to
S/199
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON
OSUUJVAN
mmx
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPS
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Enjoy
utmost
£3*
//
travel'
&—7yr
in
i_a
Js.
9
m.
m
A
variety
on
A
mA
"Kangaroo^
to LONDON
Route
K 24
CoME abroad and see the world! No cur-
rency restrictions. Stop-over privileges at
chosen ports —at no extra fare. Delicious
menus superlative service. Return passage
guaranteed. Concessions for round-the-world
travellers.
Consult your travel agent , or
H E A and B'O'A'C
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
SOMKEOH!
PIMM'S NO I CUP
The No.I Drink
for wise men
“ ‘Do you know where Lynk is
now?’ Mildreth asked abruptly.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph” story.
Another missing Lynk.
4* 4* 4*
“Told that Mussolini had once
slept in the bed he was to occupy in
his Riviera hotel, Churchill moved to
another room.”
Evidently Winnie doesn’t like
sawdust in his bed.
4* 4* 4*
“In Germany, we hear, the syn-
thetic sausage has come to stay.”
—Sydney “Daily Telegraph.”
The wurst days are over now.
4* 4* 4*
“Isn’t it awful to know on Friday
exactly what you’ll be doing the fol-
lowing Friday?”— Radio speaker.
Too right—handing over the
pay envelope, same as usual!
4* 4* 4*
“A woman can regain a girlish
figure by simply lying down and
thinking of exercise.”
— Woman’s paper.
And stretching her imagina-
tion.
Escape.
“I think that a patient waiting for
a dentist would get far more satisfac-
tion out of looking at an orchid in
bloom than reading an out-of-date
magazine.”— Sydney “Sun."
The out - of - date though
vividly-illustrated copies of “La
Vie Parisienne” and “This
Year’s Beach Girls” fell from
his nerveless grasp as his eyes
fell upon the orchid blooming
in its pot on the waiting-room
table. The whirling drill and
muffled screams that issued
from the adjoining chamber fell
upon deaf ears as he drank in
the beauty of the exotic flower.
Ignoring the yells without, a
peace seemed to descend upon
him as he drew his chair closer.
Heavens! The luscious bloom
must be worth a king’s ransom!
“Next, please!” At the voice
he started from his reverie and
seemed to sense an opened
door, a demon-like countenance
framed in white and the gleam
of forceps. He paused irreso-
lute for a moment, torn between
desires, and ran his fingers
through his hair; then, as with
a lightning bound he seized the
flower and dashed down the
stairs into the freedom of the
street, a great feeling of satis-
faction stole over him.
Jonas Dill.
Signal Change.
What prompted Chifley to
repent
His years of utter blindness
To Comma leaders’ vile intent —
Years marked by gentle kind-
ness ?
Was it perchance solicitude
That started him revising
The notion that they were im-
bued
By mere philosophising ?
Or did some instinct dormant
still
To which he is no stranger
Warn him his light upon the hill
Was showing Red for
Danger ?
I rather think this year of grace
Has caused him to remember
Elections that are taking place
In not-far-off December!
D. H. E.
Not So Offensive.
“The Nationalist armies have
started a big counter-offensive in
central China.”
General Dim Sim, master of
mobile warfare over a vast
shifting front and famed leader
of the crack 1892nd Route
Army—he boasted that it never
cracked until at least 10 seconds
after the first enemy shell burst
anywhere within 10 miles of it
—was a busy man. His great
counter-offensive was just be-
ginning.
Only for the delay in supply-
ing his troops with the vital
equipment without which it
would be' impossible for them
to go into action—birdseed for
their pets, feather-dusters, sun-
shades, pak-a-pu tickets and
kite-tails —the great operation
would have been put into effect
six months before. Not that
either he or his army had been
idle in the meantime, however.
General Dim Sim had been
personally preparing for the
coming great test of warfare by
brushing up on his technique of
making birds’-nest soup. Also,
to make doubly sure of his
mastery over communications
during battle, he had read every
day 10 stanzas from the works
of the celebrated Chinese poet
Sun Tan. Two hours spent daily
at his pottery-wheel making
vases in imitation of those of the
ancient Gin Sling dynasty had
“I'll make certain THIS one stops!"
fitted him splendidly for the
task of quickly massing his
forces to take any objective.
Above all, he had brilliantly
mastered the art of disciplining
his patience—he had got plenty
of practice at this by filling-in
various Government forms.
His redoubtable opponent, the
Communist General Maen Gee
Mung, had established his great
reputation when, with powerful
thrusts, he had crossed two
rivers (unopposed) and double-
crossed four fellow-Communist
generals so as to be first into
Gon Bung. Arriving at its out-
skirts he had sent a message an-
nouncing his intention of sack-
ing the city. Back had come a
note from the mayor that they
refused to take the sack, but
might be willing to accept a cut
in salary. Maen Gee Mung had
then demanded a cut of one-
third. As, however, the mayor
in all his civic dealings had
always expected a bigger cut
than originally offered, he de-
manded that it be increased to
two-thirds. Two months later,
when the General finally reached
a settlement after continued
haggling, he found that some of
his army had gone off gathering
pigs’ bristles in pursuance of a
new dollar-drive, while the rest
had gone on bamboo-shoots to
try out some new Russian-issue
ammunition. It had taken
General Maen Gee Mung
another three months to catch
up with his army, by which
time they had conquered four
provinces without knowing it.
Three weeks after his troops
had received their issue of iron
rations, bird-cages and crackers
with which to scare away any
evil spirits in the field, General
Dim Sim, daringly setting up
his headquarters as close as 120
miles from where he estimated
the enemy was deployed, struck
with terrible force.
Cleverly he kept his infantry
from the enemy, throwing them
instead in a tight circle around
his headquarters. He followed
this with a superb piece of
strategy by putting his artillery
in another circle around the in-
fantry. Brilliantly he had used
his engineers to prefabricate a
bridge which they were to throw
over the river. Unfortunately
they didn’t throw it far enough,
and instead of landing on the
other bank it landed in mid-
stream.
To repair the defect General
Dim Sim asked the High Com-
mand to send him some lend-
lease American ducks. Six
weeks later 40 arrived; of these
36 were immediately allotted to
the officers’ mess, the other four
being eaten by the platoon
cooks. Specially-favored troops
were given two feathers each for
use as a spare set of chopsticks.
Despairing at last of getting
the necessary equipment to
allow him to get his shock-
troops comprising the pay
corps (their normal - function
having long ceased), base
records, postal corps, fan-tan
unit, etc. —across the river, Dim
Sim moved his great striking
force 50 miles up the river.
Within the short space of five
weeks his engineers had bridged
the river. Halfway across the
structure collapsed under the
weight of the troops’ haversacks,
and had it not been that the
river happened at that spot to
be only four feet deep they
might have been drowned. As
it was, his force successfully
stormed the opposite banks. A
few weeks later Dim Sim and
the rest of his army followed,
the General hoping to storm a
few more banks, if the Com-
munist armies hadn’t ratted
them first. At the same time as
he was crossing. General Maen
Gee Mung, reaching the river
from the other side, had ob-
served Dim Sim’s army looking
for a place to cross and had,
with brilliant strategy, moved
50 miles down the river and
stormed across. He searched
around avidly for his enemy;
he is still searching. So is Dim
Sim for his. Perhaps they will
meet some day.
Not that it will matter if they
do, for Dim Sim’s Chief-of-
Staff secretly sold all his artillery
to Maen Gee Mung, whose
Chief-of-Staff had already been
bribed by Dim Sim to dump all
his ammunition in the river.
It should be an artillery duel
worth listening to.
Bo.


THE OTHER FEĹOW'S MINO
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
S.A. Coal
“Prehistoric’s” remarks on S.A.’s Leigh
Creek coal (B. 20/7/’49) didn’t mention
the general local jubilation at the all-
round success of the brown coal in in-
dustry.
I wouldn’t say that Premier Playford
opened the coalfield “in the face of
terrific criticism.” There was plenty of
criticism from the section usually termed
“well-informed circles,” but I think that
at the time the rank and file were happy
that someone was at last making a real
attempt to overcome S.A.’s abject de-
pendence on N. S. Wales for coal
supplies. The “terrific criticism” was
mainly directed towards the “grab” of
the Adelaide Electric Supply Co., Lt<L,
and its replacement by the Electricity
Trust of S.A., a Government body.
When the changeover was effected two
years ago the Australian public was being
increasingly treated to the sight of a
Federal Government leaning more and
more towards similar “grabbings.”
Moderate S.A. citizens therefore viewed
the formation of the Trust with some
alarm, imagining it to be a sign that the
State’s Liberal Government was follow-
ing in “Labor” footsteps. The alarm was
understandable but unwarranted. S.A.
has a very big area and a very
widely-scattered population. If inde-
pendence of N. S. Wales for coal was to
be obtained throughout the whole State,
some centralised control was required.
The trust and full-scale development of
the coalfield at Leigh Creek were Play-
ford’s answers to this problem.
In 1949 “the blackcoal miners rallied
with a strike” (“Prehistoric’s” phrase is
apt). The horse is of a different color
now. Any opposition to Playford’s move
two or three years ago has been silenced
by recent events. Erstwhile critics now
speak with honey in their voices.
Opencut miners at Leigh Creek are
reaping the benefits of a black-coal
shortage in fatter pay-envelopes, and,
public utilities and industry being main-
tained at a limited level by the coal they
mine, no one begrudges the big pays.
On the contrary, the Press contains letters
eulogising the workers at the Creek and
their consistent ref usal to be coerced into
joining the strikers elsewhere. Left-wing
“urgers” have been politely “shown the
„ gate” at the field, while the miners re-
affirm their faith in the A.W.U. policy
of work-as-usual and arbitration with
the State Government in any strife.
Conclusive arguments for such a
policy are (n) increased amenities for the
men at Leigh Creek, amenities obtained
by friendly negotiation with the Govern-
ment owners of the field; ( b ) any
Adelaide householder can ring up his
wood merchant, place an order, and be
reasonably sure of having delivered
within a few days a couple of bags of
brown coal at 3s. 6d. the hundredweight
bag.— Karrimba (S.A.).
Coal Strike
Chifley will no doubt claim the credit
for the end of the coal strike and adopt
his traditional strong-man pose. Actually,
the credit for beating the Communists
will belong to the people who have put
up with hardships, restrictions and un-
employment to avoid giving in to the
Reds. It is this determination that will
have decided the issue, not the weak
propaganda moves of “Labor,” whose
Press and radio campaign has been aimed
mainly at the coming elections.
During six weeks, with thousands of
families existing under near-starvation
conditions, industry at a standstill and
the largest city south of the Line living
and working in semi-darkness, Chifley
has done little more than conduct an
advertising campaign to bolster his
party.
True, the court sent a handful of
miners’ leaders to Long Bay (also, at long
last, troops were put into the opencuts),
but most of the real criminals who en-
gineered the strike are still at large and
still preaching their “philosophy.” The
miners’ leaders were sentenced only on
a technical point, and the offer the
A.W.U. made weeks ago to work the
opencuts was fobbed off for fear of a
“Labor” split. That’s about all Chifley
could do in six weeks. — Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
New Guinea Capital
Canberra was planned as a garden city,
far from the turmoil arid distractions
of places like Sydney and Melbourne, in
the pious hope that such surroundings
would inspire members of the Federal
Parliament. The result has been a white-
elephant city from which members of
the Government flee at every opportunity
and where a horde of civil servants,
mostly out of touch with realities of life,
live and work in a dream-world from
which they issue shoals of plans and regu-
lations.
That lesson should be kept in mind
when selecting a site for the administra-
tive centre of the territories lying on
the northern side of Australia. Rabaul,
the pre-war capital, was a horrible ex-
ample of a poor site —not only far from
the geographical centre, but alongside a
volcano. Nobody ever went near the
place unless he had to, and the official
apathy which life there induced was a
byword in the territories.
Port Moresby, too, can be ruled out.
Geographically, its situation is poor ; also,
it lies in the dry-belt, where the inhabit-
ants suffer the discomforts of the tropics
with none of the advantages. General
unsuitability likewise rules out places such
as Lae, Finschhafen and Madang. The
place with the strongest claim is Milne
Bay —right in the geographical centre of
the territories, and most suitable in
every other way. The day must come
when the whole of the eastern end of
New Guinea, New Britain, New Ireland
and the Solomon Islands will be placed
under one administration, and Milne Bay
is the spot from which they could best be
governed.
The main shipping route via China
Straits passes the front door; there is
a good' harbor —the Americans chose it
for a major base. Trade of these terri-
tories must of necessity be sea-borne, and
here is the central port. Inland are moun-
tains with streams which should furnish
all the hydroelectric power ever needed.
On the same near-by highlands, in a tem-
perate and bracing climate a few thousand
feet above the humidity of the coast, is
a site for a centre with all the advantages
of an Indian hill station; it could be
connected by road and car or bus services
with the port below.
People with no experience of tropical
administration cannot realise the bad
effect which a life of discomforts has
upon the work of administration officials,
but it is a fact that when a man’s temper
is frayed by heat, humidity and insect
pests, the repercussions are felt in his
attitude towards the troubles of others.
The Dutch in Java and the British in India
long ago realised the value of the hill
station as an amenity in the tropics.
Milne Bay also lies on Australian terri-
tory—a vitally important point when it is
realised that we govern adjoining areas
only under mandate. Nobody can say
what follies may be perpetrated by the
United Nations- in regard to mandated
territories, but a capital at Milne Bay
would still be under our control no matter
what U.N.O. did.—Ex-R.S.M. (S.A.).
Vicious Circle
Although plainly caught in a semi-
inflationary spiral, trade-unionists con-
tinue to agitate for substantial wage in-
creases, the latest demand coming from
Government employees at a mass meet-
ing at the Town Hall (Sydney) recently.
Arguing that since 1939 their wages have
risen about 60 per cent, all round com-
pared with 90 per cent, increase to
workers outside the sacred service, pub-
lic servants feel that they should be
handed the difference without delay.
Reasonable enough on paper, but what
they and the majority of wage-earners
refuse to appreciate is that you can’t
overtake rising costs of living by increas-
ing wages. Surely the frequency and
impotency of basic-wage increases in re-
cent years prove that! Another contri-
butory factor to the inflationary trend has
been the shortened working week, or,
more pertinently, the seeming disinclina-
tion among workers to do a fair day’s
work. In all spheres of industry this “go-
slow policy” is apparent.
Production alone increases national in-
come, increased national income reduces
costs and reduced costs quickly increase
the value of wages. Thus, opposed to
modern working-class ideology though it
may be, the salvation or future of the
wage-earner is, and always has been, in
his own hands —he must work for it. —
P. O. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Community Living
As “Dentonio” says (B. 29/6/’49)
both suburbanite and farmer favor a
detached house and minimum contact
with neighbors. Community living,
favored so much by Socialists and other
planners, may be a pleasant theory, but,
like so many other theories, it doesn’t
allow for the constant but unpredictable
factor of human nature.
My wife and I, in our younger days,
were great advocates of the community
way of living. Big blocks of flats, with
everything self-contained, or community
farms—they were the ideal places in
which to lead a full life. When we were
first married we lived in a close little com-
munity of flats. Every time we had a
domestic row the whole neighborhood
knew of it. When Mr. B. got a hacking
cough he kept us awake at night with the
echoes through the wall. When Mrs.
S.’s baby cried the sound of it started
our own youngster off.
Then I went into the Army. Un-
daunted by previous experiences, my wife
went into partnership with three other
families and took over a large house
which they were to run together on com-
munity lines. All equipment and furni-
ture was to be pooled, as was money for
the purchase of food and other essentials.
One woman was to be cook and house-
keeper, another to look after the children
and keep the house clean.
The experiment lasted three months. By
that time half the crockery tipped in had
been broken, the A kids had kicked the
B’s furniture to pieces and the B kids had
dirtied the C’s carpet, to say nothing of
what the D’s had done to the A’s, B’s
and C’s.
The community experiment ended with
very unfriendly recriminations which still
go on from time to time when originators
of it meet.
When I got out of the Army we had
to live in one room and share a kitchen,
Everyone knows what sort of trouble that
can lead to. Then •we got a flat and
were back where we started before the
war. Only we were older and had two
children. It took us some time to get
our allotment and build our house, but
now when we close our gate at least we’re
on our own.
We’re not misanthropes. We like
people. But we like people we like and
like to have them near us because they
like us and we like them, not bcause
they’ve chosen to live next door to us. —
§ IRRAH (Q)
Save?
are confronted everywhere with
slogans o£ Government origin urging us
tQ - Save! Save! Save!” Yet the
financial and social structure built up by
tbe Government makes spending corn-
pUjsory The means test, as applied to
p ens j onSj makes saving a mug’s game,
Anyone nearing pension age who has be-
tween £2OO and £2OOO must hurry
tQ g£t r - d o£ d j n or( j e r to qualify for a
p ens j on be bas himself paid for in social-
eryice taxation
pensioner is allowed to earn 30s. a
wee k to augment his pension, but if he
p u£s bis sav j ngs j nto a property that will
re turn him that amount he becomes in-
ebgjbie £or tbe pension. That means
tbat no provision is possible against the
a p ens j oner can WO rk no longer,
and be mus£ £oo k f orwar d to a final
period of comparative pauperism.—
q a B (NSW)
’ ‘
Training-centres for Nurses
\yj t h nurses in such short supply it’s a
d Australia doesn’t follow America’s
d €stablish training-centres for
that invaluable person the “ prac tical
nurse.” Practical nurses are coming more
and more into the limelight in the U.S.,
where they are saving the nursing situa-
tion. .
The ideal training period m the schools
is one year, and the age-group is from
IB to 50. That would allow many widows,
mothers of grown families and others
who have a leaning towards nursing to
train. These older women would prob-
ably make an excellent fist of the job,
t°°> being interested and experienced
enough in life to avoid the disillusion-
ment that comes to so many young
students of nursing,
Practical nurses help the community
ia two spheres. Firstly in hospitals. Here
they carry out the specifically laid-down
and thoroughly understood duties for
which they’are fitted. This leaves mem-
bers of the trained nursing-staff free to
devote their skill to more exacting duties,
The second sphere is in the home,
There are large numbers of convalescents
and chronic cases who need care beyond
the ability of a lay person, but who do
n °t need the attention of a fully-trained
nurse.
The practical nurse is taught what not
to do as well as what to do. In private
homes she does not work as a glorified
housemaid, but she is prepared to cook
the patient’s meals and at least help with
the other household meals, and she does
the patients laundry. Also, her trainmg
includes economical and planned shopping
and occupational therapy.
Australia could use many such trained
women, who could be registered tor then
own protection and that of the qualified
nursing profession.—Mac (N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 29
Across.
I—Sounding like a fighter, Mr. R.
G. Menzies goes to Taronga
Park. (7)
s—Ogled the honorable beginning
that is mellifluous. (7)
9 Dodges boxes on with Aunt
Sally. (6, 3)
10— Hoarse king takes you with very
loud music. (5)
11— Beard of the corn. (3)
12— Reckless and riotous behavior of
mutton buttons-; (7)
13— Childless season. (3)
14— Conan Doyle wrote one of four
in the beginning with a first-class
upset finally caused by such
badges. (8)
16 —We like the surroundings of
cows. (4)
19— Blow from such hurrying. (4)
20— Glaring ensign is to give a noisy
oration. (8)
23—Wood is rescued from the dull
and wearisome companion of
B’elmore. (3)
25 Farewell Sun-Yat before the take-
off. (4-3)
26 Girl to initiate litigation. (3)
27 — Jute associate in fish corner. (5)
28— Such a draw does not produce a
fresh wife. (9)
(cryptic type.)
(Solution in next issue.)
30 — Sea fauna of the French symbols
of failure in quizzes. (7)
31 — Knight follows the friend with a
hullabaloo. (7)
Down.
1 — Artist gets off the heart of the
clown. (7)
2 Fabrics insist that a liver, for
instance, is no longer a liver. (9)
3 Engage the attention of Shylock’s
income. (8)
4 Georgia’s fuel may droop up-
wards. (3)
5 Rural occupation puts the parent
sovereign on the fodder. (9)
6 Lump of precious metal upset
what a popular musical comedy
invites Annie to get. (6)
7 Why the French bear is thine. (5)
8— Fed up with Milland’s pays. (7)
15 —Followers of an ancient physician
find the signal set. (9)
17 — Successfully resist what almost
every cricket ground is. (9)
18 — Fippenny bit is good money al-
though it’s 50 per cent, spurious.
(4, 4)
19 — Conservative man of iron might
pass thus. (7)
21--The curb signifies that which
contains the subject mentioned.
(7)
22—Behind a grave flower to the
north. (6)
24 —Mother joins a horse with no-
thing in it for a hostile Power
from ancient Armenia or there-
abouts. (5)
29—Cleopatra’s slayer. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 28.


We believe in
TRADE
UNIONISM
t\ » V
“S®
THESE ARE
THE LIBERAL AIMS
• High wages.
• Good conditions.
• Independent tribunals for the prompt
settlement of grievances by concilia-
tion and arbitration.
• Observance, in a spirit of goodwill, of
the industrial law.
• Incentive payments.
• Profit-sharing.
• The banning of disruptive Communism.
and
in the protection by the law
of the rights secured
by wage-earners
We stand for the best wages and conditions that industry
:an afford.
We stand for incentive payments for increased pro-
duction and for profit-sharing wherever possible and
practicable.
We stand for the right of the unionist to express
his wishes through the democratic medium of the secret
ballot.
Industrial arbitration and direct action cannot live side
by side.
We stand for a fair industrial law, impartially applied
to employers and employees alike.
Above all, we believe that only through increased pro-
duction can the cost of living be reduced and a high
standard of living achieved and maintained.
v-, 1 1 / i • ij. . ■ s , )
4
R. G. MENZIES ,
PARLIAMENT HOUSE , CANBERRA .
Authorised by D. M. Cleland, 30 Ash Street, Sydney.
FLBB-49
