

CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
ŵ
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
Bulletin?” VoL 70—No. 3620
Wednesday, June 29, 1949
Price 6d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
SCARBOROUGH'S CASTLE HAS FROWNED ON MANY FOES
THE picturesque ruins of Scarborough Castle stand on a high cliff over-
looking the harbour to the east of the town, and for many years it was
one of the most important fortresses in the north. It was built during the
reign of Henry II (1154-1189). There is evidence that the Romans settled in
the district, and the remains of a fourth-century Roman signal station can still
be seen in the Castle Yard. In succeeding years Scarborough had its barons
and overlords; in the reign of King Stephen (1135-1154) the Earl of Alber-
marle built a castle here which appears to have been little more than a wall
around the top of the cliff with a tower at its entrance.
Piers Gaveston, the foreign favourite of Edward II (1307-1327), took
shelter in Scarborough Castle in 1312. His enemies, led by the Earl of
Pembroke, laid siege to the Castle; they were repulsed several times, but
owing to lack of provisions Gaveston finally surrendered on condition that
his life was spared. This condition was later broken and he died at the hands
of his enemies.
In 1553 a rebellion was caused by the national discontent at the con-
templated marriage of Mary and Philip of Spain. In this insurrection Sir
Thomas Wyatt, son of Thomas Wyatt the poet, took a leading part. Scar-
borough Castle was taken by surprise by Thomas Stafford, son of Lord
Stafford. He disguised his troop as countrymen and on market day strolled
into the castle with some thirty men who overpowered the sentinels, opened
the gates and admitted the rest of the troop. In spite of this sudden and
successful attack, however, the castle was retaken three days later by the
Earfof Westmorland. As a result Stafford was tried for high treason, convicted
and beheaded in London. ..
During the Civil War the Castle was twice captured by the Parliamen-
tarians, once in 1645 and again in 1648. In the cannonading which accom-
panied these operations the Castle suffered much damage, as dso did the
beautiful twelfth- and fifteenth-century Church of St. Mary near by, m the
churchyard of which Anne Bronte was buried. In 1665 George rox,
Quaker, was imprisoned in Scarborough Castle. ■
Destroyed by the ravages of the Northmen in to
German cruisers in 1914, shelled by a submarine in 1917 and sub ected to
bombing attacks in the Second World War, Scarborough, nevertheless si
stands unchallenged as she has done for generations as of England s
seaside resorts, and the town is still dominated by the remains of her historic
Castle.


S»»S88?
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 149
.AGE.
The Red Page
NOT PROVEN .
It is the habit of Freudian critics of
literature, among whom is Mr. Herbert
Read, to fossick in the biography of an
author until they find Some secret of his
sex-life which, they then declare, explains
everything about his life and writing. Yet
it is always possible that in the life of a
poet such as Wordsworth there is a
greater mystery than his relations with
women ; and that is his poetry . . . where
it came from, and how he had to live to
write the particular kind of poetry he did.
Mr. Read in Wordsworth, first printed
by Faber in 1930 and now reprinted with
a new introduction and postscript, is
chiefly concerned with Wordsworth’s
love-affair with Annette Vallon. She was
the girl—the daughter of a surgeon—•
whom Wordsworth met in Orleans in
1792 and who, at the end of that year,
bore him a daughter, christened Anne
Caroline Wordwodsth (sic).
Wordsworth left her before the child
was born and returned to England.
War With France broke out and Words-
worth, who had apparently gone to Eng-
land to interview his uncle, possibly with
the idea of obtaining his consent to a
marriage with Annette anci some money
for that venture, was unable to cross the
Channel again to Blois, where Annette
was then living. In 1793 he made, it
seems, a desperate attempt to do so and
actually got to Paris; he is supposed to
have been in danger from his associations
with the revolutionaries and he was dis-
mayed after witnessing the execution of
the Girondist Deputy Gorsas. He re-
treated to England without seeing
Annette.
The war lasted nine years. Wordsworth
fell in love with Mary Hutchinson (“She
was a Phantom of delight”) and, in 1802,
married her. But three months before
the marriage, travelling with his sister
Dorothy, he met Annette and her
daughter in Calais and spent a month in
their company. Nothing is knowh of
what really happened on that occasion.
Wordsworth returned to England, married
Mary Hutchinson apparently, saw
nothing more of Annette or his daughter
for the next 18 years. In 1820 he" and
Mary Hutchinson met Annette and Anne
Caroline in Paris, and, during a period of
26 days, “a frequent exchange of visits
took place.”
Those few facts are all that Mr. Read,
or any other critic, has to build a theory
on. Two letters of Annette’s, dated dur-
ing the period of their first separation,
have* been unearthed, showing that she
expected her lover to return to her; and
that is all. Mr. Read’s theory is that
Wordsworth’s remorse for failing to
marry Annette is responsible for the
notorious dullness of his later poetry:
I think that this passion and its melan-
choly aftermath was the deepest experience
of Wordsworth’s life—the emotional com-
plex from which all his subsequent career
flows in its intricacy and uncertainty. It
was this experience which Wordsworth saw
fit to hide —to bury in the most complete
secrecy and mask with long-sustained
hypocrisy From that feeling of inevitable
loss he passes to regret for his hasty
passion, then to feelings of guilt and
remorse, then to attempts at rationalistic
justification, and finally to more sublime
feelings of renunciation, resignation and
despair.
The first awkward hurdle to be cleared
before one can even discuss this tempting
theory is the fact that Wordsworth wrote
his greatest poetry in the ten years
immediately after he had parted from
Annette, which was the period when he
was under the influence of Coleridge.
Mr. Read suggests that Wordsworth was
then in a state of emotional turmoil, not
really having settled down to a life of
remorse, and he reminds us that the final
separation from Annette did not occur
until the interview after the war in 1802.
This is plausible enough and, if one
could still point to inconsistencies—the
facts that Wordsworth wrote the lovely
Westminster Bridge sonnet just after that
final parting; that he wrote the exquisite
“Phantom of delight” poem to celebrate
his marriage to Mary Hutchinson ; and
that he was still writing beautiful verse
at the age of 74—it remains possible to
agree that his genius, though still break-
ing out in flashes, could have been
poisoned by remorse. That his talent did
virtually collapse after the great ten years
has been admitted by every critic since
Matthew Arnold.
Mr. Read, having established a prima
facie case, proceeds to make his argu-
ment almost unacceptable by adopting a
tone which one can only call narrow-
minded ; narrow—surprisingly—in the
conventional sense of the term, for he
rails at Wordsworth like any suburban
moralist, not for having had an affair
with Annette but for refusing to marry
her afterwards; and narrow in the sense
that he is limited to his Freudian view-
point.
As an example of his strangely puritanic
intemperance, which must inevitabliy
undermine confidence in his theory, one
may take his remark that Wordsworth's
visit with his wife to Annette and her
daughter in 1820, when the poet was
fifty years of age, showed him as
“curiously callous.” It could only have
been “callous” if Mary Hutchinson,
Annette or Anne Caroline had objected
to the meeting, and there is no evidence
whatsoever on that point. The record of
“frequent exchanges of visits,” indeed,
seems to suggest the opposite ; *and Mr.
Read is castigating Wordsworth as
“callous” when there is obviously at least
an equal possibility that he was affec-
tionate.
As to the errors into which he is led
by his Freudian outlook, a single para-
graph will serve to show on what shaky
pillars rests a great part of his argument.
When he is trying to prove that Words-
worth grew to dislike France because he
had grown to dislike Annette, he
writes:
We grow to hate the object of a dead
passion, but we do not acknowledge this
to ourselves; we transfer that hatred to
things associated with the dead passion.
In this manner, Wordsworth gradually re-
nounced the cause of France and then the
-cause of the Revolution, and finally -the
cause of humanity.
Now, it cannot be laid down as an
axiom that men “grow to hate the object
of a dead passion” ; most of us retain
a distinct fondness for the girls we have
left behind us. Nor, since he visited her
at the age of 50, can we believe that
Wordsworth did in fact hate Annette.
And if he did hate Annette and all she
stood for, he should logically have hated
not the Revolution but his own acquired
conservatism, for Annette herself had by
this time become “a fanatical royalist” ;
a problem in psychology which Mr. Read
dismisses by saying that it “counts for
nothing.”
We have perfectly good reasons for
the change in Wordsworth’s political
views, without any need for recourse to
Annette, in his “dismay” at the spectacle
of the Terror and in his fear and hatred
of Napoleon, who, we too often forget,
loomed as monstrous in Wordsworth’s
time as Hitler has in our own. Napoleon
was not, as Mr. Read says, merely a
“symbol,” but was a very lethal fact, daily
expected to cross the Channel and, per-
haps, hang the poet on a lamp-post. And
as to the final charge* that it was hatred
of Annette that made Wordsworth “re-
nounce the cause of humanity,” it is suffi-
cient to quote from the postscript on
Wordsworth’s philosophy which Mr. Read
has somewhat incautiously added to the
present edition:
1 do not know what certain critics mean
when they speak of Wordsworth’s “deser-
tion of man”
So remarkable an inconsistency as this
should not occur in a logical argument,
and Mr. Read should obviously have
re-read and revised his original Words-
worth before adding the postscript. But
then, many a writer has found his own
books unbearable . . . And, after all, a
good theory is not wholly destroyed by
faulty presentation; especially when the
critic is of such a kind as Mr. Read,
whom one does not read for his logic but
for his flashes of inspiration ; or, to put
it more accurately, for his critical as
distinct from his psychological analysis.
Erratic as it is in its main line,
Wordsworth is frequently very sound
indeed in its critical asides; as,
for instance, in the observation
that “It is no exaggeration to say
that we today, a century and a half
later, are still writing poetry in the tradi-
tion then [by Wordsworth and Coleridge]
established”; or in his reminder that
Wordsworth did not say that poetry was
“emotion recollected in tranquillity” but
that poetry takes its origin from emotion
recollected in tranquillity; or in his
examination of Wordsworth’s ideas on
the proper language for poetry (“a proper
language”), showing that he did not ad-
vocate merely the ordinary speech of
men but “the heightened language of
men in a state of vivid sensation ; and
furthermore only a selection of that
language was to be adopted” ; or in his
analysis of the different kinds of philo-
sophical poetry, which brings him to a
perfect definition of the kind of poetry
Robert D. Fitz Gerald writes in Aus-
tralia,:
The essence of true poetry is that there
is no distinction between the content and
the mode of expression. Philosophical
poetry may be defined as “felt thought”—
thought emotionally intensified and made
accessible to sensibility. In philosophical
poetry proper, the thought is systematic:
it’ is the poet’s vision of the universe.
One turps to the asides with pleasure,
and returns to the main theme with re-
luctance. Apart from what he has
thought about illogically, there is so
much that Mr. Read has not thought
about at all; or not in this book.
Since, for example, the child was
christened in Wordsworth’s name, it
seems likely that Annette expected
marriage; but is it certain that Words-
worth ever intended to marry her? And
if he did not intend marriage, can we be
certain that what Mr. Read believes was
an “overwhelming passion” was not more
in the nature of a youthful peccadillo?
Not many men spend a lifetime in re-
morse for one error of this kind. And
how can we know, when they met
after the war, whether Wordsworth re-
jected Annette, as Mr. Read thinks, or
Annette rejected Wordsworth, as we
might well deduce from the fact that he
had crossed the Channel to see her?
How do we know that they did not
finally separate by mutual agreement, as
their apparently friendly meeting in
middle-age might suggest?
And if Wordsworth was stricken with
remorse, and if it is the effect on his
poetry we are concerned with, was it
not a very good thing for him, seeing
that out of his emotional turmoil came
his ten great years? How would it have
profited his poetry if, as Mr. Read rails at
him for not doing, he had married
Annette, whom Mr. Read describes as
“vivacious and empty”? Surely we
would have lost, at least, the poem to
Mary Hutchinson, and all those lyrics—
the most beautiful of his output, like
the Lucy Gray poems and “The Solitary
Reaper”—which deal with the theme of
lost or unattainable love?
In his obsession with the remorse
theme Mr. Read has neglected an alterna-
tive Freudian theory which would “ex-
plain” Wordsworth’s collapse into dull-
ness equally well: the idea that once a
man has fulfilled himself by begetting a
child he takes “the curve towards death.”
So many writers and artists manage to
beget a family without collapsing into
dullness that one would not wish to insist
on this theory; but Mr. Read should
surely have considered it.
The explanation might be simpler still:
that Wordsworth’s real talent was for the
lyric and that, as a matter of poetic duty
or out of an ambition to equal Milton, he
attempted long poems. . .and fell into
“The Excursion.” His autobiography had
served to carry him through “The Pre-
lude,” but he could not use it twice. Or
we might say, linking this theory with one
Read examines and dismisses too hastily,
that his association with Coleridge in the
ten years of glory lifted him beyond
himself.
We might say, accepting the remorse
theory in part, that if so much fine poetry
came out of one error with Annette, it
was obviously Wordsworth’s poetic duty
not to marry either Annette or Mary
Hutchinson but to find other Annettes,
beguile and deceive them and go on
suffering remorse. Perhaps it was not
so much remorse for Annette as fear of
his uncle and of the army of English
respectability that made Wordsworth
shrink from other adventures.
Or we might say, and this is probably
as near as we can get to the truth, that
Wordsworth’s true theme was Nature and
that he did the right thing by quietly
hiding himself away in the country with
Mary Hutchinson and did the wrong thing
when, yielding to the moralistic and
humanistic spirit of the times, he wrote
religious, political and ethical tracts. And
if Mr. Read, who brilliantly expounds
the difference between Wordsworth’s
natural pantheism and the not-entirely-
incompatible but confusing veneer of
Christianity the poet imposed on it, should
retort that it was remorse for Annette
that made him surrender to the spirit of
the times, one must admit that that is
possible . . . possible but not proven.
S.
Shakspearean Sleuths .
Professor J. I. M. Stewart, Lecturer in
English Literature at Christ Church,
Oxford —Adelaide’s Professor Stewart
who, thinly disguised as Michael Innes,
wrote recondite detective stories—now
returns to us with some remarks on
Character and Motive in Shakspeare
(Longmans).
These six essays show Sherlock Stewart,
assisted by the elementary Dr. Freud,
saving the unfortunate William Shak-
speare from conviction on faulty evidence
concocted by those bumbling literary
sleuths, Dr. Robert Bridges, Professor
Stoll, Professor Schiicking and Gustav
Riimelin, and even tripping-up such
prominent members of the regular con-
stabulary as Detective-Inspector Sam
Coleridge and Assistant Commissioner
A. C. Bradley.
Professor Stewart seems to feel, what
some of us who are not so well-informed
are willing to believe, that a great number
of commentators on Shakspeare are more
familiar with libraries than with life, and
have more ability to analyse texts than
to sympathise with the leaping processes
of the creative mind: Bridges, horrified
at the indecencies which seem to him
such blemishes upon the pure art of
Shakspeare; Schiicking and Stoll, dis-
mayed by “inconsistencies” of character:
all excusing Shakspeare on the ground
that his effort to please the vain and the
vulgar in his audiences was responsible
charac*erisaUons, edy ““ Us
Professor Stewart attacks this theorv
of a Shakspeare-moulded-by-his-audience
by reinstating the witnesses adduced bv
the other side; Leontes’s “inexplicable”
jealousy in “A Winter’s Tale” is shown
by quotation from Freud to follow
typacal paranoiac pattern” ; Cleopatra is
not as Professor Schucking ungallantlv
calls her, a harlot, but a rich sensualist of
a kind unknown to his studious inexperi-
ence, and her appearance at the end of
the play as “a thoughtful and motherly
woman is not an inconsistency, but a
development to be expected when such
a type meets the heroic and transforming
force of a man like Marc Antony •
Macbeth is not an immoral murderer
but a primitive mystery ; lago is not so
much a personification of evil as the
complementary part of Othello’s mind—
“lago and time are in some sort of
imaginative balance”; lago is an “im-
aginative device for making visible some-
thing in the operation of time”; and
the rejection of Falstaff by the Prince at
the end of “Flenry IV” is not faulty writ-
ing or inexplicable, but a return to the.
“primitive and magical” world of Sir
James Frazer’s Golden Bough, in which
“Falstaff symbolises all the accumulated
sin of the reign, all the consequent
sterility of the land,” and “is in the end
the dethroned and sacrificed King, the
Scapegoat as well as the ‘sweet beef’.”
‘Are these ideas right or wrong?” Let
us hope that, at any rate, they are not
quite right—it is so pleasant to talk about
Shakspeare ; but if ever we succeed in
agreeing about him, what will be left to
talk about?
Irish and Chinese .
It seems likely, now that Eire has left
the Empire, that interest in Irish political
writing will dwindle. Denis Johnston’s
play The Moon in the Yellow River, re-
printed by Cape, seems today very re-
mote ; as if it may have been a forcible
pie,ce of political psychology when it was
first published in 1932 and now is hardly
more than a curiosity.
This is, in a way, Denis Johnston’s
theme. He is dealing with an attempt by
a group of terrorists to blow up a power-
house near Dublin which is managed by
a German ; and, with greater concern,
he is dealing with the struggle between
rival groups of terrorists, one of which
happens to represent the Government
while the other would like to be the Gov-
ernment. The implication, clearly stated
by an official terrorist after he has mur-
dered an unofficial terrorist, is that while
the Irish were fighting the English the f
warfare seemed to have meaning—a
struggle for liberty—but now that that
semblance of meaning has been removed,
the underlying reality becomes apparent,
and it is mere anarchism. Lanigan, the
murderer, says: " >
Ah, never mind, I’m a physical force
man born and bred in the movement. I’m
only doing my job—the job I’m able to
do—the job that always seems to deliver
the goods. There’s no excuse for it, I
daresay. I don’t pretend to be clever like
he was. He was the brains and inspira-
tion of the movement in the old days
against the British. But now we seem to
have a damn sight too many brains, and
inspiration always ends in trying to blow
up something.
The violent events in the play—the
murder, and the subsequent blowing-up of
the powerhouse after everybody thought
it was safe—happen anarchically; unex-
pectedly and even humorously ; as if they
are accidents, but accidents arising in-
evitably out of the nature of the people.
And all this, though dramatic and comic
to watch, is so remote from the compara-
tively logical behavior of other civilised
peoples that one seems to be looking at
something meaningless; as remote and
inexplicable as the behavior of the
Russians in some of Dostoievsky’s novels,
as foreign and absurd as the intricacies
of Chinese politics.
This, too, is Denis Johnston’s theme.
His great near-namesake Dr. Johnson said
that he liked the Irish because they never
spoke well of each other; and it is this
Irish playwright who says, with satiric
affection, that the Irish have become like
{Red Page continued on page J 5.)


w
■ ~,■ rWi f-■■■■■■■-■*■
f
||K , iW*% v **
■s
mm
mmm
r
< ’W
1
|£* S "
m
Pita
/life
. f
■
'-•■ v v
v vro
k;
m
:
ii
- ' A
•-
/
Hi
" --•-
m
js
<§
■■■€. -
5 'i
“Hordernian”
Inner Spring Mattress contains
individually pocketed springs; in Rose,
Blue, Green Damask ticking. 4ft. 6in., £25/10/3;
3ft. Gin., £2O/14/9; Sft, £l7/6/9; 2ft. Gin., £l4/7/-
mi (in BORDERIS’
has the largest range in this country o£
Fine Quality Mattresses
ME
VA y.
m
'.a '
: :
ih
1
f.
s
Above.
“Bordura” Mattress
Contains imported English open unit. Cov-
ered in Rose, Blue or Green Damask ticking.
4ft. 6in., £2O/10/9; 3ft. 6in., £l7/9/3;
3ft., £l4/13/6; 2ft. 6in., £l2/13/6.
A.— (6 Buopant" Inner
Has spring unit, cotton linters,
coconut fibre. In colours Rose,
Blue and Green. 3ft., £11;
4ft. 6in., £l5/10/-.
B .—Kapoh and Cotton
Encased in high grade ticking
in shades of Rose, Blue, Green,
with border. 2ft. 6in.,
£lO/13/9; 3ft. £l2/15/3; 3ft. 6in.
£l4/16/6; 4ft. 6in., £l9/2/9.
C. — Kapoh and Cotton
Green pr Blue striped ticking
with 4in. border. 2ft. 6in.,
£B/6/6; 3ft., £9/12/-; 3ft. 6in.,
£lO/15/3; 4ft. 6in., £l4/3/-.
Quotes given any size mattress.
IH m
sm
I
m
mm
m
m
B.
v..
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ MATTRESS DEPT. —THIRD FLOOR.
’PHONE: M 240 1; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70 —No. 3620
Wednesday, June 29, 1949
Out of the night that covers you,
Black as the pit from pole to pole,
I am the Master of your Fate,
I am the Captain of your Coal.
—With apologies to Henley.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SHOWDOWN STRIKE.
Last week’s rainstorms upset the miners’
strike campaign, without upsetting their
vicious strike. Their executive meant
them to work and make all the money
they could before the strike-bell went, to
build up something for what the Federal
Government expected to be a “state of
siege.” The miners would draw their coal,
too; the rest of the community would
go without.
The rains altered most of that. With
Cessnock and Maitland under water, 25
mines flooded, and coalfield railways
blocked and so unable to transport coal
even where it could be hewn, many of
those who dutifully voted for the strike
planned by their Communist bosses were
thrown out of work a week beforehand.
It was a foretaste of the strike not
according to the Communist plans.
The general misery entailed by the
fuel shortage need not have sharply
aggravated the flood calamity if there had
been any coal reserves. There were no
reserves because it is miners’ policy to
keep Australian industry living from day
to day on current mine output. The Joint
Coal Board has long protested, without
registering any impression/ upon the re-
sponsible Governments, that supplies of
coal for all consumers were at the mercy
of storm-weather. The one-day stoppage
on the previous Thursday made it certain
that the effects of the rain and high seas
would be instantly visited upon all in-
dustry. The policy of refusing to permit
reserves of coal to be built up threw
hundreds of thousands of fellow-unionists
out of work.
Exactly a year ago, when the miners’
bosses threatened one-day strikes for
exactly the same purpose of blackmailing
the Coal Tribunal into granting their de-
mands, Mr. Chifley said just what he
now said —-that the miners must obey the
Tribunal and, if they did not, he would
review the legislation creating it. The
general strike did not come then because
the joint Governments intervened with
the Coal Board, with the result that the
Tribunal’s insistence upon its orders was
abated.
The “formula” devised by political in-
tervention was one of appeasement of
the rebels against the Tribunal. That was
nothing new in the history of the Chifley
Government’s dealing with the insolent
bosses of this essential industry. Mr.
Chifley’s exclamation last week about the
miners’ “base ingratitude” meant much
more than appeared on the surface.
Naturally Boss Williams looked
promptly this time for more appeasement.
He was even indignant that the Govern-
ments should hesitate. The miners did
not want to strike, he said, and added
that he was waiting for the Federal Gov-
ernment to come and ask him his terms
for calling off the strike. The drastic
power-rationing, he added, was “deliber-
ately calculated to alienate support and
sympathy from the miners of other trade-
unions and the general public,” The re-
sponsibility for a strike “would rest on
those in authority in their failure to do
anything to effect an amicable settle-
ment.” And, having vented this utter
contempt of the law, the facts and the
Governments together, he announced that
every other Communist-bossed union in
the land had .pledged support for the
miners’ strike plans.
The Chifleys and McGirrs would be
poor fish indeed to take that and eat it.
The entire community was watching
to see whether history would repeat itself,
and “Fixer” Ashley be commissioned
once more to go and lick Boss Williams’s
boots.
The intervention of the A.C.T.U. was
complete farce. When the 40-hour-
week hearing was before the Arbitration
Court, the A.C.T.U. did just what the
miners had done. It proclaimed pub-
licly' that unless the court granted its
demands, and the shorter week were in
operation by October 20, 1947, it would
call a general strike for 24 hours to rally
union action.
Last spring Boss Williams was received
in Melbourne by the A.C.T.U. executive,
and after a two-days’ talk with him Mr.
Clarey announced that the A.C.T.U.
would arouse all unions in a campaign
to support the miners’ claims —the same
claims over which the miners this time
declared war on the community. Mr.
Monk is the gentleman who recently
essayed to tell Mr. Justice Dunphy of the
Arbitration Court just where he got off
if he rejected! “the right to strike” against
awards. The pair were appropriately
joined in their “intervention” by that
industrially-split personality Mr. R. A.
King of Sydney Trades Hall.
Doubtless this weathercock trio told
Mr. Clarey’s old friend, Boss Williams,
that their hearts were as ever in the
revolution, but that for the time being it
was imperative not to sink the Chifley
Government at the approaching elections.
And doubtless Boss Williams’s answer
was to the effect that, if the Chifley Gov-
ernment wished to save itself, the more
reason for its coming to heel at his
calling.
So, with the failure on Sunday of the
last-minute negotiations ordered by the
Coal Tribunal, the showdown strike was
declared on. And a showdown, as pre-
lude to the elections, is precisely what the
Chifley-Evatt crowd has hated the thought
of facing.
Socialism Won't Work.
In Britain the chorus of disillusioned
enthusiasts for the Socialist new order is
becoming impressive. The crowds which
set out under the new Moses did not ex-
pect to spend 40 years in the wilderness.
They did not expect their trusted leaders
to turn round on them and talk like any
capitalist boss of the old days—as, for
instance, Mr. Herbert Morrison at the
British Socialist party’s Blackpool con-
ference :
Socialism is no magical organisation that
gives things without earning them. Social-
ised industries are not organisations where
anyone can become lazy and slack. A
lively, thrustful enterprise must run through
socialised industries from top to bottom.
How different all this from the pre-
socialisation assurances! Stafford Cripps,
director of the great Socialist experiment,
has refused the lieges either reduced
taxation or increase in wages, because,
in the straits to which socialisation has
reduced the nation on top of the post-
war exhaustion, these things can’t be
done. After British dock-workers had
struck for 17 days—in sympathy with
Canadian Communist seamen, a cause to
which demands for higher wages became
automatically joined—one of the strikers’
leaders said, in excuse for the costly,
stupid, nation-wide stoppage, that “the
dispute would never have begun if the
men had known what the Minister for
Labor had just said in his broadcast ap-
peal to them, that they were allowing
themselves to be Communist dupes.”
Pretty soon Australian coalminers will
be saying the same thing, whether
honestly or not. The anti-Communist
industrial groups within the Trades Halls
are organising (so far ineffectually)
union purges on the same ground. And
when the whole Socialist “revolution”
breaks down Messrs. Chifley and Co.
will plead also that they undertook it
with the best intentions, and that the
Communists spoilt their chances.
Socialisation is failing in Britain not
merely because the “redistribution of
wealth” is coming to an end as the rich
disappear, but because Socialist manage-
ment is failing to translate its idealist
appeal, because lavish commitments
in the form of social benefits can
hardly survive the withdrawal of Ameri-
can support (now in sight), because all
Mr. Morrison’s brave talk of Socialist
enterprise benefiting from competition
with private enterprise—especially Ger-
man competition—does nothing to allay
the fears of the men in charge of British
industries. Especially is the gravest ap-
prehension rife over the determination of
the Attlee Government to socialise the
steel industry, the one bright spot in
British post-war industrial effort.
Two years ago even the Fabian
Society published a scathing report on
the lack of technical capacity in the
civil service to administer the industries
taken over; and last January Bertrand
Russell, whose sympathies have always
been with the Socialists, declared in a
series of radio addresses that under the
new order in Britain
Those who have the nominal initiative
are perpetually controlled by a civil service
which has only a veto and is perpetually
prone to prohibitions. Under such a system
the energetic are reduced to despair....
The present tendencies towards centralisa-
tion may be too strong to be resisted until
they have led to disaster.
The answer of Herbert Morrison at
Blackpool was to announce that the
Government would relax war-time per-
sonal and restrictive controls “only when
it is in the public interest to do so,” and
tljat they proposed if they should win
the next elections to legislate for “a re-
vised and permanent” imposition of
these controls over persons and services.
The socialised State —a crazy concep-
tion, anyway—is obviously headed for
the scrapheap as soon as the working
people of the country, to whom the
Socialist appeal is solely directed, dis-
cover they have been duped. This is
what Mr. Francis Williams, late editor
of the “Daily Herald” and First Adviser
of Public Relations to Prime Minister
Attlee, wrote last year:
Because the most serious of all the prob-
lems facing Britain is that of under-
production, nationalisation has so far meant
to the ordinary worker not, as he had
expected, an easier time, but an appeal to
work harder than ever before—and without
much obvious recompense either in in-
creased control over his own destiny during
his working life or in the feeling that he
is no longer simply an employee but “one
of the owners.”
And when the bewildered, deluded
trade-unionist cries out, like Tom Shaw,
the Nottingham railway guard, at
Blackpool: “We were told there would
be a new spirit under nationalisation.
There’s no such feeling. Things haven’t
got better, but worse” —the only reply
he gets from his new masters is, in the
words again of Mr. Attlee’s First Ad-
viser :
The whole attempt to control inflation
can be frustrated if,.in conditions where it,
is essential that the total of money incomes
shall not go ahead of production, strongly
organised trade-unions use their bargaining
power to obtain higher wages in industries
where no increase in production will
follow.
And how is consent to this restraint to
be won? Mr. Francis Williams adds:
Socialist planning, as envisaged by the
Government, takes for granted a great deal
of reasonableness and goodwill on the part
of a majority of men and women in an
adult democracy, and is an expression of
confidence that economic discussions ac- 1
cepted after discussion at every level of
industry will prove more effective in the
long run than any type of compulsion.
In what long run? For a succinct ex-
pression of the whole fallacy of socialisa-
tion —its easy assumptions, its incapacity
for prompt executive decision, its eveV-
present threat of compulsion—that sen-
tence would be hard to beat.
Socialisation won’t work. The “honey-
moon,” in Mr, Chifley’s words, is over.
Sir Eric Young, a member of the British
National Coal Board, recently described
as “alarming” the continuing upward
trend of the board’s production costs —
they were £4O millions more in 1948
than in 1947—and told Yorkshire mine-
managers: “There can be no further in-
crease in the price of coal and there will
in no circumstances be a Treasury sub-
sidy.” Nationalised British railways’
costs rose by £36 millions in the same
year, to a figure over three times that of
1938, and 25 per cent, more coal was
used for every locomotive running. What
nonsense is this parading of Socialist
business efficiency !
The picture is not essentially different
in Australia. In the three years
1945-48 Mr. Chifley’s Government Ship-
ping Board lost £ll millions, and is ex-
pected to lose another £8 millions this
year. Government air-lines are taking
the same downward path. The post-
office, pre-eminent among all cash-custom
businesses in the land and hitherto an
infallible profit-maker, faces for the first
time in history an annual loss of many
niillions. Railways, trams and buses are,
under socialisation, hopeless losers of
money, and are degenerating into the
condition of “foreign devils’ ” trains in
China, where “scaling” on trains is re-
garded as a natural human right. The
Socialist inflation of the currency has
kept pace here with that in Britain ; in
each country the regime is at the mercy
of foreign support —in Britain depending
upon Marshall Aid, in Australia (as Pro-
fessor Copland endorses) upon the fan-
tastic prices paid by a starving world
for Australian wool and wheat.
The plain truth is—as the “Labor”
Premier of Tasmania admitted not long
ago —that the 40-hour week was prema-
ture, that go-slow and shorter hours can-
not carry the higher-wages demand by
the unions, and that great numbers of
people agree with the secretary of the
A.W.U., who said recently, in retort to
a miners’ threat, that “if the people of
Australia are to be dependent for their
coal upon the Communist leaders of the
Miners’ Federation, then the sooner the
showdown comes the better.”
East Meets West.
When the agreement was made in New
York to lift the Berlin blockade and
counter-blockade on May 12, with a
Foreign Ministers’ conference in Paris to
follow from May 23, Mr. Bevin spoke
some seasonable moonshine to the effect
that a peace which “could last 200 years”
—“I do not think it beyond the realm of
possibility” —was within the grasp of
European statesmen.
There was no rush anywhere to attune
joy-bells to Mr. Bevin’s exuberance.
There was instead a universal derisive
scepticism. Nobody believed the Kremlin
had been suddenly flooded with sweet-
ness and light. And nobody now has
any trust that the same quarter will honor
such agreement as was announced last
week for one moment longer than suits
its purpose.
Mr. Bevin’s statement on that agree-
ment —“The foundation has been laid.
We most now build on if. I have faith
in our neighbors ; I hope they have faith
in us” —suggests that as well as faith and
hope he must have unquenchable charity.
London “Times” —like its counterparts
here, given to post-war trumpeting of
Soviet sweetness until disillusionment
dawned on it —summed up the Paris
result in a less romantic appraisal;
Only experience can show whether there
is really any change in Soviet policy in
Europe or whether this is merely a lull to
enable the Cominform to prosecute its feud
against Yugoslavia and to tighten its grip
on the shaky regimes in Eastern Europe.
For what it is worth, the agreement
extends indefinitely the division in
Germany, and the occupation also. A
form of Four-Power control in Berlin is
to be restored; not that it will make any
difference to adopted policy on either
side. It is given out that “Russia under-
takes never to reimpose the blockade”;
this, as it may be. A mutual undertaking
not only to allow but to stimulate East-
West trade completes the conference
agreement on Germany. For Austria, a
peace treaty to be drawn up by Sep-
tember ; frontiers to be as before the
German annexation ; no reparations other
than paying Russia £5tg37,500,000 over
six years.
The crux of the whole thing is the
East-West trade issue, and on it there
is some ground for guarded optimism.
Necessity driving hard, it could prove
the exception to the rule that the
Kremlin never keeps a contract. The
same driving force operates on the
Western side, in perhaps only slightly
lesser degree. In fact, it appears to have
been the principal agent in bringing the
parties together for the conference. In
the result, the victory to be chalked up—
it could be on the side of Peace —seems to
have been one of economics over politics.
What is known of Soviet and general
Eastern European economic conditions
supports such a view of the conference
and its outcome; and there is other re-
lated ground for the conclusion that the
Kremlin has perhaps been credited with
father too deep and astute a cunning.
Russia itself is known to be in serious
economic straits. As well as the findings
of experts, based on official Soviet docu-
ments, there is strong enough circum-
stantial evidence to the point.
For one thing, a Russia as ambitious
as it is, and as strong and astute as sup-
posed, would certainly not have kept by
far the biggest existing army in the world
merely marking time while the West
gathered its strength and unity.
Nor would an all-sufficient Russia have
caved in—as it did—to such a combina-
tion of economic force as the Berlin air-
lift and the counter-blockade ; the one
positive diefeat—and victory—registered
in the “cold war”'to date. Nor would
any such fabulous Russia have fallen
down —as it obviously has done—on the
briefly - boomed and long - forgotten
“Molotov Plan,” which was to counter
in Eastern Europe the Marshall Plan in
the West.
In the testing, the counter-blockade
proved considerably—and decisively
more damaging to Soviet interests than
the Soviet blockade was to the Western
side, which hardly supports the all-mighty
Soviet fiction. No support, either, is
provided by recent trading through the
Iron Curtain. More than 60 per cent, of
Poland’s trade last year was with outside
countries; Britain, for one, has a
£260,000,000 trade agreement with
Poland. Even before the Tito break,
Yugoslavia was doing 47 per cent, of its
trading with countries outside the Soviet
grip; the rate has certainly increased
since. As one other example, the five-
. year plan on which Czechoslovakia
launched out this year is based on an
assumption of a 55-per-cent, trade with
the West.
For its part, the West is now also find-
ing the same sort of necessity impelling
enough. For all Europe, East-West trade
is no mere convenience but a first essen-
tial, If Poland is trading with every
European country outside the Soviet orbit
save only Spain and Portugal, all those
non-Soviet countries are just as interested
in their trade with Poland. Europe
simply could not long continue under the
sustained suspension of East-West trade,
and could not have done without the
suspended shape of it so far but for the
enormous Marshall - Plan and other
American bolstering. And now the
bolsterer is feeling the same impelling
force, too. Even prior to the increasing
“recession,” the prospect of Uncle Sam
continuing longer in the role of Father
Christmas was being sourly viewed by
Congress.
Out of these sundry forces —the one
economic . force really—emerged such
agreement as was reached in Paris, It
no more means the end of the “cold war”
than the Russian signature means a bind-
ing contract. Even without another
Russian sell-out it could prove a Soviet
gain if it should have the effect of sapping
the Western will towards unity, and cur-
tailing U.S. liberality. Apart from which
dangers, it i§ at most a skffmish-yictory
for Peace,


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Light in Darkness.
Wreckage by the floods in the Kurd,
Cessnock and Maitland region, including
many miners’ homes, aroused prompt
and generous response from the general
public to appeals for clothing and other
aid. From city businesses and private
sources the help furnished through the
Red Cross and other agencies was
described in one quarter as exceeding all
expectations.
This is the old reliable Australian
spirit, and it was matched by miners
themselves in some of the flooded pits,
especially at Bellbird, where fire had
broken out in a fall of a seam of gas-
coal. Here the men and mine officials
worked day and night to save over a
million tons of precious coal, and there-
with a great section of the mine itself,
from destruction. They found the seat
of the fire just in time and saved the
tunnel.
On this job the voice of the fifth-
column agents of Moscow was not once
heard. It would not have had a chance
if it had tried to make itself heard. The
response of mine-workers and of the
outside community to the emergency in
the mining toWns gives the lie to the oft-
repeated allegations that Australians of
Kurri and Cessnock are a race apart,
neither understanding nor understood by
the rest of the Australian people.
The tragedy is that the force of this
wider and loyal community-interest is
not developed to save a particular sec-
tion of Australian working people from
being .perpetually duped and soured by
their own chosen. leaders and sold into
a bondage of hostility to the country’s
welfare. The radio broadcast by the
chairman of the Government’s own Joint
Coal Board made as clear as daylight the
readiness of this democracy to see fair-
play in the miners’ struggle—an effort no
longer that of miners alone—to enhance
the conditions of the miners’ homes and
industry. Only false and evil-minded
leadership could pretend that Mr.
Cameron’s appeal to reason and co-
operation was an “insult” to the miners.
Financial Integrity Vindicated
Notes on the timber inquest:
Mr. Justice Ligertwood’s report to the
Governor-General closed another chapter —
though perhaps not the last—in the New Guinea
Timber story. The Commissioner had been asked
to determine:—
1 — The real transactions between the
Garden-Farrell syndicate and Hancock and
Gore Ltd.
2 Whether Mr. Ward, Minister for
External Territories, was a party to any of
the transactions.
3 Whether Mr. Ward signed, or author-
ised J. S. Garden to sign, any notification
that the grant of a timber licence to
Raymond Parer had been, or would be,
approved by the Minister.
4 Whether Mr. Ward was promised or
received any financial benefit from the
transactions.
5 Whether Mr. Ward was financially
interested, directly or indirectly, in Sydney
Pincomtfe Pty., Ltd.
The finding of the Commissioner on the first
question was that the transacti<*n was “a
barefaced fraud practised by Farrell and J. S.
Garden upon Hancock and Gore, Ltd.” He
found that Raymond Parer and Harcourt
Garden were “morally censurable’’ and that
“the working directors of Hancock and Gore,
Ltd. (which expression does not include Mr.
E. R. Crouch or Sir William Glasgow) were
induced to enter into the transaction by their
greed for timber.” Their action, “having regard
to J, S. Garden as .a public servant, was im-
proper on its face.” The company’s solicitor,
Biggs, and its logging-manager, Forshaw,
assisted in the transaction “with knowledge of
the impropriety.” Royden Murray Service, of
the Army Inventions Directorate, Judge Ligert-
wood characterised as “a ready tool” of Edward
Farrell, whom he described as “the master
mind” of the whole affair and whose criminal
prosecution he recommended should be con-
sidered.
Of Mr. Ward the Commissioner found:—■
“The Minister was not in any way party
to the transaction or to the fraud.”
On the other three questions posed the
Commissioner was equally definite in giving the
Minister a clean bill. He also found disproved
imputations that Mr. Ward had been involved
in a corrupt transaction with one Mossie
Hyams, that he had improperly taken 12,000
dollars abroad in 1947, that he had a secret
bank account in the name of E. J, Brooks,
that W, Urquhart was a “dummy” for the
Minister in Sydney Pincombe, Ltd., and that
Urquhart had conducted a racket in manpower
releases and concealed his profits by showing
them as betting wins.
The Commissioner’s report was taken by Mr,
Ward and the Prime Minister as completely
vindicating the Minister for External Territories,
It was a complete vindication as far as the
questions the Commissioner was asked to decide
were concerned, but one or two questions still
remain unanswered. These are questions the
Commissioner was not asked to answer—why
not is presumably known to those who drew
up the terms of reference.
Before those terms were announced The
Bulletin suggested that points which demanded
explanation were: —
I—Admissions1 —Admissions by Urquhart that when
he went to Mr. Ward’s home “on Mondays,
Wednesdays and Fridays” on the Minister’s
Erivate electoral business, he used a car
ired at Government expense.
2 —The exact duties of Jock Garden, the
manner of his appointment, and how he
came to have the run of Mr. Ward’s office
and the service of his typists after Mr.
Holloway had taken over the department
which paid his salary.
The Bulletin was not alone in thinking these
were matters deserving attention. Other papers
made similar suggestions, as did Federal Opposi-
tion members, notably Mr. Hughes and Mr.
Spender, both men of legal training.
x ... e Government, notwithstanding the Prime
Minister’s assurance of an inquiry in the widest
terms, chose to narrow down the issues to those
listed. But although Mr. Justice Ligertwood
was not asked to comment on those other
points he apparently felt it a public duty to
speak out on at least one of them. Of Garden’s
activities he said:—
If J. S. Garden had been simply a liaison-
officer between the Ministry of Labor and
National Service and the unions, he would,
no doubt, have been given accommodation
at the A.P.A. building. The Department
of Labor and National Service had been
removed there. But apparently his duties
were such that he was useful to the Federal
members as well.
He was allowed to remain on the eighth
floor of the Commonwealth Bank Building
and was assigned a room across the passage
from the Minister’s suite.
This proximity of his office to Mr.
Ward’s suite “had several effects which
proved most unfortunate in relation to the
Hancock and Gore transaction,’’
< The Commissioner also said;—
Finally, Garden was left in his office
without direct supervision by his Minister
or the permanent head of his department.
Consequently, Farrell was able to visit
him whenever he wished, and Garden’s
room at the Commonwealth Bank Building
was available for their secret conferences.
I set out these facts by way of narrative
only. They are necessary to a full under-
standing of how Farrell and Garden were
able to work the fraud. I am not in a
position to criticise them and I refrain
from doing so.
To do justice in any such criticism would
require a separate inquiry as to Garden’s
work as a liaison-officer and as to how
far the exigencies of the military and indus-
trial position required the retention of his
services.
One can be pardoned, however, for
doubting the efficacy of Garden’s work as a
liaison-officer during the three and a half
years in which he was engaged in this
fraud.
The doubt can certainly he pardoned, but
continued Ministerial silence on the subject of
Garden’s duties cannot.
Mr. Justice Ligertwood again:—
My second comment relates to the
Governmental status of J. S. Garden and
Royden Murray Service. *
Each was brought temporarily into the
Public Service and was given a responsible
dffice.
Each was allowed a measure of trust and
discretion outside the routine of the depart-
ment to which he was attached. Each
betrayed his trust.
The necessities of the time and the
sudden expansion of the Public Service .
may have made it desirable, if not neces-
sary, to create offices like those held by
Garden and Service.
But this inquiry has emphasised that the
utmost care should be exercised in select-
ing persons to fill such offices and in
defining and supervising their duties and
activities.
Tabling the Commissioner’s report in the
House, the Prime Minister remarked that Mr.
Ward, “whose financial integrity has been
established.” would resume the administration
of his department immediately.
The Royal Commission was a costly affair, but
the country can now congratulate itself that a
Minister’s financial integrity has been estab-
lished. But financial integrity is not the only
qualification demanded of an administrator —
or of a Government.
Another Cup of Tea.
Questioned in Parliament on a statement
credited to a Tea Control official that,
if it were not for the Communist-led
wharfies’ ban on Dutch shipping, enough
tea could be imported from Java to
abolish tea-rationing, Mr. Chifley re-
plied : —•
Figures I have received show that tea
supplies in Indonesia could not meet all
demands made upon it. Recently tea
merchants asked that the price of tea be
increased to 4s. a pound. At this price it
would be unrationed, and the Government
subsidy would be dropped.
He wasn’t asked about Indonesian tea
production; he was asked if he would
order the wharfies to lift their ban. When
asked a second time to do this, he “re-
sumed his seat.” Meantime Mr. Healy,
the Communist boss of the wharfies, had
his say;
No tea company or Commonwealth offi-
cial has asked for a lifting of the ban on
tea cargoes.
“A Tea Control Board official,” pre-
sumably the same one, repeated the state-
ment that tea-rationing could be ended
if the ban on Dutch ships was lifted.
A dark silence brooded over Canberra,
though the scarcity of tea makes it neces-
sary for Canberra to pay out tax money
in subsidies to keep the price down.
Which means that, because of Communist
dictation in foreign policy and foreign
trade, the taxpayer has to fork out for a
commodity which ought to be plentiful
and reasonably cheap.
Light on the Reds.
Ghosts from the past Jostled kindred
spirits of more recent vintage in Mel-
bourne last week in supplying involuntary
evidence to the Royal Commission into
the activities of the Communist party in
Victoria. From Marx and Engels through
Lenin, Stalin, Bukharin and Dimitrov
and so on down to Sharkey, they testi-
fied by their writings.
The commission handed to Mr. Justice
Lowe has very wide terms of reference.
In brief, he is empowered to inquire into
the origins, aims, objects and activities
of the Communist party and of members
or persons or organisations associated
with it. In particular he is asked to find
whether the party advocates or encour-
ages the overthrow by force or violence
of established government and whether
its activities are or have been directed
at the overthrow or disruption of repre-
sentative or democratic institutions, the
subversion of law and order or the attain-
ment of its ends by force, violence, in-
timidation or fraudulent practices.
Mr. R. R. Sholl (assisting the Com-
missioner) traced the origins of Com-
munism from the Marxian teachings of
the materialist interpretation of history
and the theory of the Class Struggle lead-
ing to the overthrow of the State and the
establishment of the dictatorship of the
proletariat, with the elimination of
private property.
It was the essence of the theory, he
said, that this should be a process taking
place, not in one country, but all over
the world. The question could not be
localised to a study of what was happen-
ing in Melbourne. According to the con-
stitution of the Communist party, it was
organised in Australia as —and was until
quite recently—a part of the international
organised Communism known as the
Third International, the Communist In-
ternational, or the Comintern, established
in Russia in 1919.
Mr. Sholl quoted the syllabus of the
Marx school (for training party
members), and read from books and
pamphlets, prescribed in its course, which
referred to the need for violent revolution
to achieve the dictatorship of the prole-
tariat. He claimed that these and other
documents which he would produce and
witnesses whom he would call would
show that the Communist party in Vic-
toria was an integral section of the Com-
munist party of Australia, and that the
fundamental objective of the party was
the overthrow by violence of the exist-
ing State. This was to be achieved by
gaining control of the trade-unions and
using political and general strikes and
armed demonstrations to produce a revo-
lutionary situation in which the Govern-
ment could no longer govern and the
masses were perplexed and ready to follow
the Communist lead. Then would follow
armed insurrection, seizure of power and
the liquidation of the State as we know
it, including officials. Parliament, the judi-
ciary and the police.
First witness called by Mr. Sholl was
The Bulletin’s “Ek Dum,” otherwise
Malcolm Henry Ellis, who told the Com-
missioner he had first studied the methods
and organisation of Communism at the
close of World War I at the request of
the then joint head of the Common-
wealth Department of War Propaganda.
He said the Communist party of Aus-
tralia had been founded in 1920 by John
Smith Garden and W. P. Earsman, who
claimed to be secretary of Melbourne
Trades Council. There was a rival body,
but Garden’s party ultimately received
Comintern recognition.
Ellis produced documents intended
to show a direct link between Aus-
tralian Communists and the Comintern.
These consisted of original and photo-
stat copies of Communist publications.
One document, a photostat copy of the
“Workers’ Weekly,” quoted a cable from
the Comintern: “We insist on the policy
contained in our previous telegram.” An-
other copy of the same paper, dated De-
cember 6, 1929, contained an article
signed “Political Secretariat Executive
Committee, Communist International.”
It began:
This is not the first time the Communist
International occupies itself with the Aus-
tralian question. Already in 1927 it was
found necessary to send a representative of
the Communist International to your party
convention to clarify certain political and
organisational issues then confronting your
party.
A later portion of the article urged
open warfare against the A.L.P.,
the party of class collaboration and indus-
trial peace, against the party of capitalist
arbitration, against the party of such
Labor fascists as Mac Cormack, Hogan and
Co., against the party of strike-breakers,
wage-reducers and race prejudices and
white Chauvinism [White Australia], against
the party policy of British Imperialism,
which is feverishly preparing for war
against the only workers' State, the
U.S.S.R.”
Mr. E. F. Hill (for the Communist
party) objected to photostat documents
and - asked that originals be produced.
Mr. Sholl said the originals were in the
Mitchell Library; they had been asked
for, but photostats had been tendered.
The Commissioner agreed to accept the
photostats, saying “If, at the end of the
case, it turns out that there is nothing to
show that they are original documents,
we can have a look at it in that light.”
Ellis thereupon produced more docu-
ments which, over the next three days,
Mr. Sholl, Mr. Mclnerney and Mr. Lewis
took turn and turn about in reading to
the court. He was still producing them
when the case was adjourned for the
week-end.
-o-
Reserved for Comrades?
Not so long ago the Comrades raised a
loud squeal because several cities had re-
fused to grant them the use of Town
Halls for meetings. That is apparently all
over —at least as far as Sydney is con-
cerned.
“Labor” Lord Mayor O’Dea on
June 16 allowed Communist-con-
trolled unions to hold a meeting in the
Town Hall. Seven of the eight speakers
were Communists, and a resolution was
passed urging the Federal and State Gov-
ernments “to force the Coal Board and
coal-owners to implement the mine-
workers’ programme and so avert the
threatened stoppage in the industry.” The
meeting was held a few hours after illegal
slopwork meetings had agreed on a
general strike.
A few days later another or-
ganisation sought the use of the Town
Hall to hold a citizens’ protest meeting
against the proposed coal strike. They
didn’t get it. After much backing and
filling they were told the hall was already
booked. At the same time the Lord
Mayor showed his attitude towards the
protest meeting: “I think that a meeting
like this at this stage of the national crisis
would do more harm than good.”
So Sydney’s civic centre is available
to those who defy the law, but not to
those who uphold it.
The Carnival Is Over.
Whether or not anybody took any
notice of it, the National Bank’s recent
warning was only too well justified—that
behind the apparent national prosperity
based on big export income lay the grim
facts that the export industries (in other
words, the land industries) were near
stagnant levels in production; that
nearly 60,000 fewer people were working
in rural jobs than in 1939, though the
population increased by 750,000; and
that the capital assets of those same in-
dustries were falling into ruin.
The bank is ominously correct when it
says that financial prosperity not based
on enlarged production contains within
itself a serious weakness.
That weakness needs only a sharp fall
in export prices for its revelation. The
logic of it is simple enough: If 100 acres
is producing 1000 melons worth £1 each,
the national income from that 100 acres
is £lOOO. But if melons fall to 15s. each,
and the 100 acres produce no more, then
the national income from that 100 acres
falls to £750. It so happens that wool,
not melons, is the chief source of our
national income, with wheat next, and a
glance at the position of both is sober-
ing.
Wool prices reached their peak months
ago, and since then have declined. A lot
of people are misled by newspaper talk
of “record prices” and “top prices,” which
are no real guide. The record price in
the sales last year was 210 d. a pound, but
the average price, according to Winch-
combe Carson’s Review, was 46d. a
pound—a whale of a difference.
It is on the 210 d. that many base their
assumption that all is well and the wool-
grower sitting pretty and able to afford
high wages, high taxes, 40-hour weeks,
increased costs and other things. We will
be lucky if the 46d. average is maintained
this year.
Winchcombe Carson also reminds us
that keeping up the standard of the clip
is becoming harder because of subdivision
of large properties. Other elements con-
spire against it, too, notably lack of wire
and wire-netting, galvanised-iron, stock
drugs, machinery parts and labor. With-
out a sufficient supply of these things
growers cannot maintain yield and
quality, apart from increasing yield, and
increased yield is the only way to offset
falling prices. The 100 acres have to grow
1333| melons to maintain the £lOOO level
when melons drop from £1 to 15s.
This isn’t to say that a collapse in wool
is imminent. It is doubtful if any Aus-
tralian export product is as sure of its
markets and reasonable values for the
next few years as is wool. But for all
practical purposes the carnival of record
prices is over and we have to be ready for
the aftermath. Being ready means any-
thing but continuing our present orgy of
rising costs, shorter hours, reduced
factory output and high direct and in-
direct taxes; and somehow or other the
tide of people has to be turned back to
the country.
Nobody watching the wheat picture
can be other than worried about it. The
International Wheat Agreement, as full
of holes as a colander, isn’t in force yet;
and the Commonwealth Government’s
“stabilisation” scheme stabilises nothing
except the Government’s control of in-
dustry and grower, since it must depend
on I.W.A. results and, because of that.
{Continued on page 5.)


THE FOUR HORSEMEN OF THE PEACE-ECLIPSE.
“Time to dismount, boys here’s where we got on!”


nn
1 ].y^
mm
/> j
s-..
■SJL
57288-R
Keep *o—
CRAVEN*
throat* »<*«
for yo«*
Obtainable
in 10'( & 2Q'a
CABRERAS LIMITED-OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
m
m
is wide open to the storms of chance.
The last couple of Australian crops came
from bountiful seasons and they sold at
high prices. But acreage hasn’t increased,
high prices haven’t held, and wheat-
growers face the same supply difficulties
and cost worries as do woolgrowers.
What’s more, the last two wheat crops
went on to a world market short of
wheat. This year the North American
harvest is a huge one ; already the United
States is so pushed for storage room that
it proposes using surplus ships in which
to store up to 100,000,000 bushels, and
U.S. railroads won’t accept wheat unless
guaranteed that storage is available at
the destination point, fearing a tie-up of
bulk-wheat trucks.
Thus with wheat, much more so than
with wool, the price carnival is rapidly
slowing down. Wise administration and
a public realisation that good times don’t
last for ever can offset much of the
damage export-price falls would cause.
Should nation and rulers not make pro-
vision for an early drop in export income
the much-talked-of could
hit u§ overnight.
POLITICAL POINTS
Reported from Canberra that E. J,
Ward urged in Caucus that the Prime
Minister, Senator Ashley and Minister
for Labor Holloway should go to the
coalfields to appeal to the miners over
the heads-bf their Red leaders. Caucus
turned the proposal down flat, Haylen
voicing what seemed to be the general
opinion—that any such attempt would re-
sult in complete failure, with a big loss
of by the Government. For
once Ward was right. If Federal “Labor”
really believes in arbitration and the
rule of law, and if it really believes in it-
self, it should not shirk facing the
miners;
He either fears his fate too much,
Or his deserts are small,
That dares not put it to the touch,
To gain or lose it all.
If Chifley had taken not two Ministers
but his whole Caucus to the coalfields to
put the case for his Government and the
people, the rank-and-file miners could
not but have been impressed. As to loss
of prestige—if any of that commodity
remains to the Government —success of
such a move would have improved
“Labor’s” chance of an electoral victory,
while failure’ would at least have won
the respect the Australian public
always accords a valiant trier. But the
bold way is not the Chifley way. The
national “leader” croaked that he would
not “go about the country making pro-
vocative speeches,” adding that “words
were more likely to inflame the position
rather than end it.”
After the A.C.T.U. effort to “settle”
the coal strike had failed, Mr. Monk,
secretary of the outfit, affected to be
hurt at the attitude of the Joint Coal
Board and the mineowners. He said that
the owners had not been prepared to
discuss in private conference the miners’
proposals on long-service leave and a
35-hour week. They had insisted that
Mr. Gallagher should determine both
matters. The Coal Board had added
nothing to its previous attitude, “in
spite of the fact that the miners were
prepared—if the principles of long-ser-
vice leave and a 35-hour week were
recognised— to reconsider their ban on
extracting pillars with machines.” In
other words, he apparently believes that
the Coal Board and the owners should
have given definite concessions in return
for a promise to reconsider a previous
refusal. Reconsider means nothing, and
a Communist’s promise means less.
What Monk is really saying is that
despite the Government’s statement that
arbitration must prevail, the owners and
the Coal Board should yield to threats
from a crowd whose avowed object is to
wreck arbitration as a preliminary to
wrecking democracy as we know it.
On Sunday evening the news services
of all Australian radio-stations an-
nounced that, last-minute attempts to
settle the coal dispute having failed, the
general strike would begin on Monday,
facing ‘Australia with its biggest crisis
since the war and its industry and people
with greater deprivation of power and
fuel than the war itself was able to do.
Then the Prime Minister came on the
air to give the listeners on one radio
network his Report to the Nation. He
chattered about television!
After investigating Press allegations of
favoritism to public servants in the allot-
ting of Housing Commission homes, N, S.
Wales Housing Minister Clive Evatt sus-
pended the chairman of the commission.
The chairman stayed put, maintaining
that the Minister had no power to sus-
pend him ; Premier McGirr supported the
chairman. Later, when Opposition-leader
Treatt called for a royal commission
on the Archbold Estate scheme, which
had occasioned the rumpus, Evatt “found
no justification” for such a step. There
was no evidence that the homes “were
being handed out to a privileged few.”
He had found that 41 out of 167 homes
allotted under the purchasing provisions
had gone to Government officials, but
would Mr. Treatt say that public servants
were not entitled to the same rights as
other members of the community? The
real question is whether public servants
are entitled to more rights than other
members of the community; in par-
ticular, whether the officials concerned
were able to take advantage of informa-
tion which was not available to private
individuals.
To Mr. McGirr the suspension incident
between Evatt and chairman Gallop was
“some small disagreement,” and the idea
Of “wasting a whole afternoon discussing
whether there should be a royal com-
mission” was “just childish and gross
stupidity.” McGirr was Evatt’s pre-
decessor as Housing Minister. Meantime,
the “S. M. Herald’s” housing correspon-
dent is still awaiting the apology due for
Clive Evatt’s having characterised him as
“a notorious fabricator.”
A political writer on the London
“Sunday Express” points out that at least
25 members of the Attlee Socialist Gov-
ernment are, by every sense of the term,
capitalists, being big shareholders and
directors of lucrative companies. Among
them is R. W. G. Mackay, the one-time
Sydney solicitor who went to Britain to
“end the aristocracy of the money-bags.”
Mackay is doing very well in the manu-
facture of corsets.
Professor Higgins, of Melbourne Uni-
versity, talking to the Canberra branch
of the Economic Society about “employ-
ment stabilisation,” said we needn’t fear
depression so long as business remains
confident. The words were hardly out
of his mouth when the N.S.W. coal
“troubles” began, the heavens opened
their floodgates and thousands went on
Commonwealth unemployment relief —
the new name for the dole.
No quiz on the Victorian party poli-
tical wrangle, Cain-Dunstan Versus Holl-
way, should omit the question; Who
said this? —
Mr. Dunstan was the master mind in the
secret conclave of members of the Opposi-
tion who had decided that the Government
must be made to resign by refusal of
Supply. It is interesting to remember the
late Sir Stanley Argyle’s description of
Mr. Dunstan. He called him “Dunstan the
Wrecker,” and said, “You can search the
political records of this State and any other
British Parliament, and you will find nothing
to equal such a career of political treachery,
chicanery and opportunism/' I leave it at
that. (Loud applause.)
Answer: The speaker was outgoing
“Labor” Premier Cain, in his policy-
speech at the last Victorian elections.
Pushing Menzies’s Private Member’s
Bill on secret ballots back out of sight
on the shelf the Chifley Government has
given birth to a sort of a kind of a bill
“to prevent irregularities in trade-union
elections.” It empowers the Arbitration
Court to look into complaints of irregu-
larities and to order a new election if it
thinks fit. That looks all right on paper,
but it’s a poor substitute for a Govern-
ment-supervised secret ballot. And the
question of a secret ballot before a strike
is conveniently overlooked. Probably
Chifley thinks it would be too “provoca-
tive,” yet if such a provision already
existed it’s a shipload of coal to a pit-
pony’s halitosis the present “crisis”
would never have arisen.
Italian Foreign Minister Count Sforza,
explaining why his country did not in-
tend to join the Brussels Five-Power
Treaty: “The Atlantic Pact is somehow
an offspring of the Brussels Treaty. We
have joined the Atlantic Pact, and if we
joined the Brussels Treaty it would be
incestuous.” The touch is refreshing in
these days of heavy-handed diplomacy.
Like Sforza himself it is a relic of the
pre-Vyshinsky era.
John Eliot, the British railways expert
invited out by the Victorian Government
to report on its decaying railway system,
has weighed in with a horrifying report
which confirms the decay and advises
various measures for arresting it —at a
cost in the region of £20,000,000. The
alternative, according to him, is a com-
plete stop. He wants general consolida-
tion of rail and other transport systems
and standardisation of gauges, and most
of his suggestions are useful. But, viewing
it from the angle of a little country like
Britain and knowing nothing about Can-
berra, he wants it co-ordinated with
unification of all railway systems under
Federal control!
For several months the steamer Hali-
gonian Duke has been lying alongside a
Melbourne wharf with 7000 tons of Indian
coal in its holds, Melbourne wharfies
having declared the cargo black because
of the Canadian seamen’s dispute, a
Communist-inspired brawl. Appeals from
the Victorian Government to the Prime
Minister to order the watersiders to
handle the coal have brought the feeble
reply that he can do nothing in the
matter. When British dockers took
similar action with Canadian ships Attlee
stepped in and saw that essential cargoes
were unloaded, but that is too much to
expect of Chifley. He’d call it “crucify-
ing the workers,” and that is the preroga-
tive of the workers’ fellow-workers.
The N. S, Wales Parliamentary Elec-
torates and Elections (Amendment) Bill,
which is the full title of the McGirr
measure designed to gag the Press, got
through the House in a most appropriate
manner. The Government applied the gag
at almost every stage. Before the last
election McGirr was talking of doing
away with the gag. But then, he spoke
of lots of things before the last election.
In almost every debate since broad-
casting of Federal Parliament began,
listeners have heard some “Labor” mem-
ber or other accuse Liberal- and Country-
party men of being responsible for the
depression and dole of the ’thirties. The
facts are that the Scullin Government
was in Canberra when the depression
began and that the Lang Labor Gov-
ernment in N.S.W. introduced the dole.
And again last week, with a “Labor”
Government in Canberra and another in
Sydney-, thousands of workers were
applying for the dole.
New Zealand, which intends to hold
a referendum on compulsory military
training, proposes to call up 8000 youths
of 18 every year for 14 weeks’ training,
a fortnight in camp with permanent units
and subsequent parades with them. After
that the trainees will be attested as on
the national reserve for seven years.
Maoriland Labor doesn’t believe that
“push-buttons” 'and battalions of De-
fence Department clerks are sufficient
substitute for a trained army.
In the first five months of this year
Queensland’s meat-export production
was down 54 p.c. on the same period of
last year. This is partly the rebound of
the 1946 drought in the beef country,
though rising costs and heavy taxation
are obviously doing what thoughtful
people said they would do, destroying
incentive to produce. Yet Canberra talks
blithely about increasing North Aus-
tralian beef herds by 10 times their pre-
sent number and supplying Britain with
shiploads of beef.
The ill-advised Steel Grab has lost the
Attlee Government another supporter—
Lord Milverton, who was raised to the
peerage two years ago after a lifetime
in the colonial service. His reasons: The
bill is not necessary at present, if ever;
it will jeopardise the efficiency of the in-
dustry ; he feels that control of the in-
dustry is itself the end and not merely
the means to an end. In resigning from
the Labor party he told the Lords that
his experience as a colonial governor—
he had represented the King in North
Borneo, Fiji, Gambia, Jamaica and
Nigeria—had shown him how unrestricted
bureaucracy could strangle enterprise.
Last Thursday Sydney’s street crowds
half of them out of work and all of them
anxious to know whether something
would be done to stave off the threatened
coal strike, saw the posters of the two
evening papers come fresh from the
press: “Big Fight Result.” It seemed a
new way to announce a decision on a
strike matter, but the people wanted the
news and they bought, only to discover
that somewhere in America one second-
rate nigger had beaten another second-
rate and ageing nigger on points in a
boxing match.
Amidst all the coal troubles the Prime
Minister continued to be mysterious and
threatening about petrol-rationing and
the alleged evil results that would follow
if the States didn’t ration it. So far as
can be gathered, nobody is madly buying
petrol and storing it —it’s too dear for
one thing—but Chifley has only to keep
on talking to stampede motor-owners
into doing so.
Any question that the Snowy River
hydroelectric and irrigation project is to
be anything but a Socialist scheme under
the present Commonwealth Administra-
tion was settled last Thursday night. The
bill went through its second reading, and
the Minister in charge of it, Lemmon,
calmly told Cameron (Lib., S.A.) that
work had already begun without Parlia-
mentary authority, and refused to accept
amendments designed to assure Parlia-
ment’s consent to Treasury guarantees of
overdrafts from the Commonwealth
Bank. No wonder Menzies says the thing
“reeks of illegality.” But illegality or
breaches of the Constitution mean nothing
to the Canberra Socialists.
These last few weeks Sydney house-
wives have had to get used to cooking
the evening meal —and their families to
eating it —by the light of candles or a
hurricane-lamp. Last Thursday after-
noon the A.C.T.U. and the Combined
Mining Unions Council met to discuss
the threatened strike. They were still
at it when darkness came, and “electricity
restrictions forced adjournment.” When
someone suggested hurricane-lamps a
delegate said “If the Government can’t
go to the trouble of providing us with a
lighted room 1 don’t see why we should
go to the trouble of running around after
lanterns.” That precisely sums up the
attitude of the commissars: makeshift
lights for the housewives, but nothing
but the best for themselves.


ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
HOME-LIGHTING BATTERIES TO FULFIL EVERY
LIGHTING NEED —BACKED BY 61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE.
ŵ
ẁ
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PEREONAL ITEMS
First the Tiger Moths, now the Beau-
fighters have flown into the sunset of
service. Known to Japs as “Whispering
Death,” the Beau did much of its work
at about 50ft., sliding in over the tree-
tops and unloosing without warning a
storm of cannon-shells and bullets. As
famous as the plane are the names:
“Blackjack” Walker, who, m Wirraways
(the Terrors of the Timor) at Darwin,
before he plagued h.q. till he got com-
mand of No. 30 Squadron of Beaus, hit
the Japs as lethally as ever his
pseudonym ever hit anyone, and led his
squadron in New Guinea so energeti-
cally that it collected a D.S.O. and six
DF.Cs. in the first six-months’ opera-
tions; “Cat’s Eyes” Cunningham, the
R.A.F. ace (in Sydney recently) who
fought Beaus over Europe and with the
peace created an altitude record in a
Vampire jet; Squadron-leader Arthur
Thompson, now chief pilot with Ansett;
and Flight-lieut. “Torchy” Uren, who,
snarling in at mast-height over the Bis-
marck Sea convoy in 1943 with the rest
of the Beaufighter flight, shot-up exposed
Jap gunnery personnel while Damien
Parer shot the grim slaughter with a
movie-camera beside him.
W- R. Kelly, who was called to the S.
Australian Bar in 1921, and to the Chief
Judgeship of the Federal Arbitration
Court this month, has crammed a lot into
the intervening years. Born 50 years
ago in Calcutta, where, he had his early
education, he was an s.-m. in Adelaide
by the time he was 28, was Mayor of
Yorketown (S.A.) before that, and in
1930 became president of S.A.’s Indus-
trial Court, his presidency extending over
11 years and ending with his joining the
Arbitration Court. He has handled
several Royal Commissions, one of
which was into the waterside strike and
conditions at Port Adelaide in 1930.
Attention to. detail is his recipe for
success.
Cecil Gregory, who offered some ex-
pert prophecies on the effects of the
petrol-bomb dropped in the High Court,
is in several ways the motorists’ friend ;
as secretary of the N.S.W. Service
Station Association he helps provide
roadsters with the wherewithal to get
where his road-maps and guide-books
direct ’em to. Hailing from Forbes
(N.S.W.), he travelled the Inky Way in
country and city journalism before
accepting the secretaryship of the State’s
Publishers’ Association and launching
his own map-publishing business in
Sydney.
The spirit of “Smithy” will no doubt
smile approval and fair winds on the
effort of Vincent South, a young
Adelaide-born pilot. In a single-engined
monoplane, South and two cobbers are
retracing Smithy’s trans-Pacific flight
from Frisco.
“Trinco’s” farewell:
The Reaper closed a crowded life when South
Australia’s World War I Governor, Sir Henry
Galway, passed on in London last week. Son
of a general, and schooled at Sandhurst, he
began a lifetime of administering Empire
corners when, in 1882, he went to Bermuda as
an A.D.C. At the turn of the century he had
a Sanders-of-the-river job in Nigeria, with native
risings and up-river expeditions to attend to,
and D.S.O. and several “mentions” to witness
that more than diplomacy was needed. He
was High Commissioner of the Protectorate
when, with the locals quiet, he shipped to St.
Helena as Governor in 1902, The West African
province of Gambia had him in a similar
capacity until 1914, when he came to the
comparative peace of S.A., then at the begin-
ning of its war. The new Governor, as expected
from his experience, hated fustian: when at
the start of locking the Murray one Federal
politician after another linked him—because
he had tapped the foundation-stone into place —
with Sturt and the river’s first navigators, the
old soldier got to his feet and cheerfully pointed
out that he was in the position he occupied
with regard to the Murray scheme merely by
fluke. S.A.’s first war memories are bound
up with his lean, eager-faced figure fare welling
troops and receiving wounded, and, at the
Armistice, announcing the news to a great
crowd outside Parliament House. The 27th
Australian and Scottish Regiment, too, will
recall him well —as their honorary colonel until
three years ago. Eighty-nine at the end.
George Berrie, Lighthorsemari and
bushman, whose lean length and hawk-
face could still model for the breed, has
put between covers, under the title
Morale, his experiences oh Gallipoli and
in Palestine with the old Sixth L.H. Regi-
ment. In the Forbes (N.S.W.) district
when the Kaiser opened fire, Berrie
dropped everything and rode to the near-
est recruiting office. Several savage
months later he was one of the last dozen
of his regiment to evacuate the Anzac
beaches, from near Clark’s Gully.
Followed the Palestine campaign, alter
which he returned home, wandered
through N.S.W. and Queensland manag-
ing stations, then shipped to England,
where he held down jobs ranging from
harvesting and hop-picking in Kent to
shearing in Northumberland. With
Hitler’s outbreak, Berrie took on a tuU-
time warden’s job in London, and ott-
duty lectured and broadcast on Aus-
tralia. Still very much in the saddle and
able to put a nice spin on a yarn.
Passed through Sydney on his way
home after a term as British High
Commissioner in Maoriland, Sir Patrick
Duff, who learnt the trading angle of his
job as private secretary to successive
presidents of the Board of Trade for
four years, and the political from a
similar post with Prime Ministers Stanley
Baldwin and Ramsay MacDonald for the
next 10. He was deputy High Com-
missioner in Canada before posting into
the Tasman. His relief is Charles Roy
Price, lately deputy UK. High Com-
missioner in Australia, and before that
holder of the same title in S’Africa.
Off to London to the job of regional
tuberculosis officer in the Windsor area.
Dr. B. C. Thompson; he’s been t.b.
officer of the Otago Hospital Board in
Dunedin (M.L.) for the past three years.
Broad-shouldered and athletic-looking,
Rudolf Schock, the German lyric tenor
now touring Australia under the A.B.C.
banner, leaps up the steps two at a time
from the artists’ room and steps out the
longest strides concertgoers have seen as
he makes for his position by the “grand,”
His voice, as purposeful as his walk, is
matched by the artistry and high musical
intelligence with which he backs it up.
As well, he is gifted with a pleasant and
pleasing manner. He is a living example
of the adage, quoted ever since 200 years
of musical Bachs crystallised in the titanic
genius of Johann Sebastian, that music
RUDOLF SCHOCK.
runs in families: he has three brothers
and a sister, all operatic singers. At 17
the young Rhinelander decided to be a
professional singer, studying under
Laurens* Hofer, of the Vienna State
Opera. After singing opera in the big
provincial cities Schock moved into the
Berlin State Opera House six years ago,
since when he has alternated between
there and Covent Garden. He knew no
English when he went to England; within
two months he was singing three operas
in that language. His wife, a former
prima ballerina, accompanies him on the
present tour as his secretary.
Maegraith’s attached, victim, Bris-
bane’s R.C. Archbishop Duhig, is to lead
the Australian pilgrimage to the Seven
Hills early next year. Australian in all
but birth —he came here as a lad from
Limerick- —he first visited Rome in
1896, when sheer ability as a lad sent
him to the Irish College there. Ap-
pointed Bishop of Rockhampton in 1905,
he moved to Brisbane in 1912, as coad-
jutor to Archbishop Dunne, and succeeded
him five years later. Member of
the Senate of Queensland University, a
Fellow of the Royal Geographical
ARCHBISHOP DUHIG.
Society of Australia, uncompromising
critic of Communism and a friend of
Cardinal Mindszenty, the Archbishop’s
as vigorous as ever at 77, for all his 20-
odd stone.
Peace-time naval life isn’t all Mel-
bourne Cup socialising, as Lt.-Cdr, Keith
Tapp, captain of frigate Shoalhaven, can
vouch from his recent commission in the
Orient. At Shanghai when Communist
guns opened on the R.N.’s London,
Consort and Amethyst, Shoalhaven re-
layed all signals to and from the British
ships, sent her surgeon in the Black Swan
up the Yangtse and mounted a guard of
honor in Shanghai for the British killed.
R.N. salvos, at close range and firing
rapid broadsides, gave Communist gun-
ners a savage mauling before Consort
and London, river-bound, withdrew.
On the way back to Sydney Shoalhaven
was ordered to stand-by the Maoriland
freighter Melva, which, coursing from
Milne Bay to Sydney, had rammed her
bows on a reef. The frigate passed
Melva a hawser and hauled her to Mac-
kay (Q.). Tapp is a 1929 snottie who
was in cruiser Hobart during most of her
fighting life, from the evacuation of Ber-
bera through the Java Sea and Coral Sea
actions up to the Guadalcanal landings.
Before commanding destroyer Vendetta
just before the cease-fire he was flag-
lieutenant to Admiral Keyes on his 1944
visit.
Dr. Frank Fenner, formerly Haley
Research Fellow of the Walter and Eliza
Hall Institute, in Melbourne, collects this
year’s David Syme Research Prize for
his work on mousepox, the lab. counter-
part of human smallpox.
son of an Adelaide doctor, Fenner had
nearly six years of war with the
A.A.M.C., from the Middle East to the
Pacific Islands campaign. He heard of
his prize-winning in the U.S.
Another medico elevated recently, Dr.
J. L. Still goes to Sydney Varsity’s Chair
of Biochemistry, after having lectured on
the subject there before entering Cam-
bridge for post-graduate work in 1938.
He came home three years later with a
doctorate of philosophy, and took off
again last year, this time to America,
with a Rockefeller Travelling Fellowship
to Columbia and Wisconsin Universities.
Melbourne has gofte to Brisbane for
a successor to H. H. Bell as chairman
of the Tramways Board. R. I. Risson
is the man, until his southern appoint-
ment deputy-manager of Brisbane’s
Transport Department. Now a rugged,
all-about 48, Risson joined the Brisbane
tramways in 1922, immediately after ex-
tending his Gatton (Q.) High Schooling
into a Bachelorship of Engineering at
Queensland University. In the war, a
major; very .soon, brigadier, chief-
engineer of a Middle East corps; at
Alamein his engineers cleared lanes
through seven minefields under fire,
through which Monty’s men fought to
the objective. Risson’s effort there has
been recognised with a D.S.O.
In appointing Lt.-General Francis
Festing new overall commander of Hong
Kong’s land, sea and air forces the
British Defence Ministry returns to the
island hot-spot a man familiar with its
defence problems—he was G.O.C. land-
forces there in 1945-46. Too young for
World War X (he’s 46), he saw plenty of
the next, from landing in command of a
brigade on Madagascar’s beaches in 1941
to leading the British 36th Division in
Burma for three years up td the sur-
render. There he collected his D.S.O.
Lately Director of Weapons and Develop-
ment at the War Office, he should fit
well into the Royal Navy’s scheme of
things—off-parade his main relaxation is
ocean-yachting.
After 28 years with Qantas, W. A.
Baird, the co.’s engineering-manager, has
called it a day. What he doesn’t know
about Qantas it isn’t much use asking the
next man about. After servicing the
planes of No. 1 Squadron, A.F.C., in
Egypt and Palestine, he joined P. I-
McGinnis and Hudson Fysh and went
with that brace of pioneers to Longreach
(Q.) in 1921 to assist in beginning what
grew into the lusty mile-eater Qantas
is today. Under Baird’s direction the
first aircraft built in Australia took the
air there, after which he modified the
Flying Doctor’s plane to meet its peculiar
requirements, A pilot as well, he flew
for years on the Brisibane-Camooweal
mail-run, built his co.’s hangars and
many of its airports and, when war
necessitated an alternate England-route
in 1943, set up and staffed the Westrahan
base. His main interest in soarmg now
is the flight of his golf-balls.
A pleasance of over 100,000 roses is
to be established at the Blessington Gar-
dens, St. Kilda, Melbourne, as a memorial
to Alister Clark, famed the world over
for his Lorraine Lee and a dozen or so
other of the blooms. The local council
plans to make the garden one of the
show places of the Commonwealth, it
will have the help of the National Rose
Society, the Royal Horticultural Society
and the Moonee Valley Racing Club,
which, with nurserymen and seedsmen
will provide a first consignment of 20,UUU
of the choicest. The racing club is
interested because Clark was its chaiiman
for 32 years; it still keeps up the cere-
mony initiated by him, of presenting
trainers and jockeys of Cup winners with
bouquets of roses.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, Ivan Repin, founder of a string
of city coffee-shops. Russian-born, he owned
a coalmine in Vladivostok before the Revom-
tion.
In Melbourne, Maggie Dickinson, one o
jCW’s leading dancers in musical productions
for many years. She toured England and
Europe and returned to found a school of
ballet.
At Stawell (Vic.), Stanley Freeland, fine
snortsman, three times Mayor of the town
and president of the Victorian Country Football
League, which he helped to found.
At 93, in Melbourne, old-identity A. J.
Sullivan, foundation member of the Bread and
Cheese Club and member as well of the A.W.U.,
Cobb and Co.’s Coachdrivers’ Association, the
A. L. Gordon Memorial Committee and the
Henry Lawson Society.
In Sydney, the Rev. Hugh Paton, one-time
minister of St. Stephen’s, Sydney, and for 40
years, 20 of them in Scotland, a member of
the Y M C.A. Early this year he was honored
with the Y.M.’s Life Service Badge.
In Brisbane, at 74, J. T McGuire, owner
of the ’Gabba’s Railway Hotel. Born in County
Cork, out here at 16, he was a Brisbane aider-
man for 15 years, drew up the plans of the
City Hall, and was an original member of the
Q.T.C., racing, among others, Forge, last
Doomben Cup winner.
In Melbourne, at 85, John Francis Feehan,
who relieved Alister Clark as chairman of the
Moonee Valley Racing Club six months ago,
and whose father farmed where the club now
races. Connected with the turf for 60 years,
John had been wool-and-skin auctioneer, ring-
steward for the R.A. Society and, in his youth,
an amateur jockey.
In Adelaide, at 48, Richard Babidge,
managing-director of the cooping firm at Mile
End and one-time president of the C.P.A.
Spare-time was given to crippled children and
the Blind Institute.
In Melbourne, Fred Dixon, inter-State cricket
umpire. He was with Melbourne “Age” for
nearly 50 years, the last nine as bead-machinist.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Mac Hoots”; Last week Mr, Chifley
and Mr. McGirr astounded the populace
by at last saying something mildly re-
proving about the coalminers. While
the skies wept in Sydney and the streets
ran like rivers and we had no gas, no
light, no heat, no milk, we all said
something rather more forcible than did
Mr. Chifley and Mr. McGirr. But now
I shall say no more ; the last word, the
perfect word has been spoken. It was
in Sydney “Sun,” which had interviewed,
among other anguished industries, a firm
of radio-manufacturers. The company,
so the “Sun” reported, declared:
Once industry loses its labor force it
will be Hykffolm?-, shrdlu w cmf m bard
to rebuild it.
I thought things had gone beyond the
powers of human speech. And as for
Mr. Chifley, Mr. McGirr and the coal-
miners, Hykffolm all!
* * * *
“Findy”: A spiritualist speaking in
Adelaide Town Hall told his audience
that 30 years ago from the same platform
Conan Doyle had said that if a statue
of an angel in King William-street had
told everyone to become spiritualists,
they would do so, but they had to work
out their own salvation. I heard Conan
Doyle speak from that platform; his
subject, spirit photographs. I had read
“ Don't go, miss. I'll blackout the window."
his writings on spiritualism and was pre-
pared to be convinced. After preliminary
patter —it didn’t include the statue story ;
that must have been another night—the
lights went out and Doyle began his
lecture, illustrated with lantern-slides of
the alleged spirits. He used a billiard-cue
as a pointer. Thud! He would bring the
butt of it sharply down on the stage as a
signal to the operator. On the screen
would appear a photograph of a wedding-
group. He would point with the cue to
a smudge somewhere between the grooms-
man and the second bridesmaid. Thud!
The picture would appear upside-down,
the smudge now bearing a slight resem-
blance to a human head. That, Sir Arthur
would explain, had been identified by the
bridegroom as his grandfather, who had
died some years before the wedding, but'
apparently didn’t want to be left out of
the group. Thud! Another picture ; an-
other smudge, which someone had recog-
nised as his favorite aunt, long dead.
Thud! Andi so it went on. As I walked
home along King William-street that night
I didn’t see any angels, but my incipient
belief in spirit-phenomena was gone for
ever.
* * * *
“Oliver Filter”: Sydney “Sun’s” cap-
able journalist-author, George Johnston,
has been doing a series of articles on the
alleged prevalence and increase of prosti-
tution, v.d., procuring, homosexuality and
the like in this verra wicked city of
Sydney. While they lasted the articles,
it appeared from a snap survey of tram-
and ferry-readers, were more popular
than the “Sun’s” comic-strips and sport-
ing pages, the only substantial objection
coming from the other afternoon sheet,
the “Daily Mirror.” Later another ob-
jector in the person of a city alderman
protested on behalf of King’s Cross resi-
dents against the statement that “there are
3000 women on the streets at King’s
Cross.” The “Sun” replied that the
figure of 3000 related to “virtual prosti-
tutes.” The term “virtual prostitute” in-
trigues me. To whom would one apply
the description? An eminent gentleman
once asked an eminent woman if she
would sleep with a man for a million
pounds. The lady, considering herself
both modem and practical, replied that
she certainly would. Whereupon her
questioner asked if she would sleep with
a man for five shillings. She was visibly
offended and snapped, “What do you
think I am? A prostitute?” The man
replied, “We have already decided that.
I am. only trying to determine the
degree.”
* * * *
“Youanmi”: One of the very, very
few things I like about blackouts, coal
shortages, strikes and the like is the
wonderful crop of rumors about what’s
behind it all. I’m not sure whether the
latest one is just a wild heresy or a de-
liberate sowing of propaganda, but here
it is as passed from one woman to an-
other on my tram this morning: “Bill
says it’s those Communists and Big Busi-
ness working together. So-and-So [nam-
ing a top Com.] practically owns a kero-
sene-lamp factory and Such-and-such [an
only slightly lesser light] has a lot of
shares in a place that makes oil stoves.
As soon as they have plenty of stocks
they start a coal strike, and there you
are. They’re making fortunes.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Plop”: Allow me to report the first
cuckoo. The A.L.P. has begun its elec-
toral campaign in the
Press with a photograph
of a young mother and
babe and an invitation to
“Watch him grow up in a
better world.” With it is
a paragraph mentioning
that as the lad grows up
his mother will be “free of
the anxieties faced by
thousands of mothers
only a few short years
ago,” that the child was
bom to a bounty of social
services, food, clothes and
medical care silver
spoons, they claim, that
he’d have never known
had there not been a
“Labor” Government for
the last eight years. The
splurge winds up by ask-
ing supporters to send con-
tributions to the Hon. J.
B. Chifley or Dr. H. V.
Evatt. I read all this in
the light of the candle my
wife and I shared in our
kitchen and asked her, as
she heated the baby’s milk
on a dying spirit-lamp,
what she thought of the
from anxiety”
she enjoyed. She said
nothing. She merely lifted the lukewarm
milk from the extinct lamp. Yet as she
held the saucepan in her hand, hunting
for a glass, I thought I heard it boil.
* * * *
“Zake”: I am case-hardened to the
comic-strip character who bores millions
of flapper-daily readers by saying in one
issue “Yuh kaint shoot off yuh mouth
thata way, Spike,” and who, a few strips
later, uses language as polished as an
Oxford don’s. But I leam. Trying to
beat my insomnia, I was digesting the
pallid “adventures” of Abandoned
Aggie and thereby came for the first time
on the wonderful array of sounds made
by Homo sapiens when he is in sore tra-
vail. Now, whenever a dog has wrapped
a set of tombstones around my shin and
started to tug, the only thing I remem-
“Goodnight."
ber having uttered has been something
that started with “You adjectival blank! ”
This, I find from a character in the strip
in a similar situation, is all wrong. He
gets the maximum of emotional satisfac-
tion out of emitting the single word
“Whuff!” At first I thought this was a
remark made by the hound during the
mastication process, but by tracing down
the balloon filled with the word 1 found
that the chewed one was saying it. In
the next strip the anguished supplier of
canine-feed grasped his limb and said
“Blop!” How expressive, how original,
how—shall we say?—Shakspearean! I
must remember to use it the next time
an Alsatian starts gnawing my leg.
* * * v
“Macnell”: Signal the Admiralty that
its decision to reduce bell-bottoms to the
comparative stovepipes tolerated ashore
should succeed in halving recruiting; or
. a ~ ..
50 my own experience tel s me. Wasi it
the sound or smell of blue wat tha
drew me down to the sea. Hailing from
the Darling Downs, I knew neither,
Was it the thrill of manning a heavily-
gunned, greyhound-lined cruiser? I’d
never seen one outside books. Was it
the attraction of Nelson, reaching down
through the years to stir my country
heart? The Nelson legend was entirely
compassed in my mind by a half-digeste
Seyi I JoSTST
in the age of Oxford bags, and it was
wholly the irresistible lure of those flap-
ping, shoe-covering 32in. bell-bottoms
that got me there.
* * * *
“Mozzer”: After being preserved for
seven months Adelaide’s most puzzling
body has been buried. It was found on a
local beach, and doctors have failed to
. . Km* for,™
ascertain the cause of dea* but fancy
it .could have been a.rare.type of
jxnson. All efforts at ' deat *- , -
fafied ; name-tabs had from
the clothing, and the only clue was a slip
cl bearing the two wor
Shud ” That wasn’t a help until ,t was
translated as Persian, meanmg tp finish.
?om P a aP
it appears after the final verse. A who-
dunit author could not have thought up
a neater or more intriguing poser.
* ♦ * *
“Rooster”: An amusing sidelight on
that crowded Richmond-Carlton foot-
ball match (B. 22/6/’49) was the enter-
prise of a bright lad who “borrowed”
his employer’s ladder to hire it out. He
F y . • . . . c.rrn.mHmn
did a roaring ’ t f
trees soon becoming thiddy Populated.
Then the boss appeared. The boy h s
retreated, and the ladder was r tuni
to the store, leaving the sparrows to
get down as best they could.
a -rr*,,.., rp, . __
« L
schoolboy fights (B. 8/6/ 49) started
memory churning. Disregarding bully-
ing, I can’t recall a fight that wasn’t an
affair of honor cunningly engineered by
some budding Tex Rickard or Mike
Jacobs. The procedure ran in a pattern
—just as it, no doubt, runs today. For
the solo purpose of breaking the
monotony of life, the match-maker
selected his victims: Smithy and Browny
ought to put up a good go. Approached
and asked the direct question: “Are you
cocky of Browny?” Smith, whatever
his true feelings, could not do otherwise
than pronounce his utter fearlessness.
Brown, told that “Smithy reckons he
ain’t frightened of you /” would be with-
out honor if he failed to publicly declare
his own refusal to be daunted—by a
windbag like Smithy. A little gentle fan-
ning of the spark and the battle would
be arranged—to take place behind the
outhouse erected by a thoughtful Depart-
ment of Education as a screen for such
duels. If a bleeding nose or “stinker”
led to a court of inquiry one boy could
always be relied upon to volunteer
strictly impartial evidence for the Crown,
And I never saw one of the type have a
fight himself,
* * * *
“Pat”; The ways of milk-ohs (B.
8/6/’49). My neighbor has a car and a
driveway but, as yet, no garage. Usually
he leaves his bus in front of the house,
but when the deluge came he ran it into
the driveway where the eaves of the house
afforded some slight protection. Result:
milk. He rang the milkman, w o
P?mted out that he had been d ehvenng
via the driveway for 15 years, and if his
path was obstr ,/ cted _ we 5 > he wa3 sorry ,
bu j no m jij c> The front gate was suggested
as a su j ta y e entrance, but tradition is
apparently strong with the milk-ohs, and
was — n o milk. So the limousine is
o ut in front again and milk deliveries
have been resumed,
* * * •
“Hyanlo”: After the Syrian campaign
our mob found plenty of work survey-
. p oSS^j e g Un -sites for what would
£» «-» *• Tripoli defence -a if
Hitier’s hordes had decided to come down
through Turkey. One day our work
took us to the Almema area, and we set
U P our theodolite on the flat roof of a
wog building. There our observations
were apparently misunderstood, because,
much to the discomfiture of our instru-
ment man, a “Madam” poked her head
out of a window and exhorted him to
be a man and come inside and see the
k , h rough a tele-
*cop’e B B ing (hfi type o£ c ß hap who
favored obscurity to notoriety and know-
to h h , d b / embemshed
ba B k - can / p _ h( . begged my silence
Q b y seven years j s long enough to
/
* * * *
, M “ d ‘ od f
Probably carries more beards to the
yard than any other place in Aus-
tralia. The engineers on pearling luggers
started the fashion, probably through
the difficulty of shaving once their craft
starts bobbing about. Then the post-
office staff accepted the challenge, and
‘o da V buying a stamp involves facing a
be » rded barricade Next the whisker-
growing industry had a seal of religious
approval placed on it when a parson
p £ duced J little beaut wave £ over
his sboidder like a muffler when the wind
b j ew _ long, i ea n joker grew an evil-
ginger thing that so outraged
public opinion that he wag seized one
night and half his face shaved in the
hope that the cold, grey light of dawn
wou ] d convince him of the advisability
0 f removing the rest of the growth. Not
so j He left that half till the other side
flourished once more in its pristine
luxuriance. Worst feature of the craze
is that all the bearded ones wear shorts,
and knobbly knees and whiskers just
aren’t affinities.
A WARNING TO TELEVIEWERS.
“Mr. Chifley has announced plans for an Australian
television service.”
When “Labor” got the broadcast bands
It bound them round the people’s hands;
It halved our daily radio sessions
To air its speeches and digressions
And, led by an astute commander,
Filled night and day with propaganda,
Turning old-fashioned A.B.C.
To new and brassy A.L.P.,
Making the voter’s money pay
To drill him up the “Labor” way,
Taxing the State into a workhouse
To back its Narcissistic circus,
A libel on the people’s choice —
Ward’s Omniscience, Chilley’s Voice,
Dedman’s Logic, Calwell’s Facts
And Evatt’s Disappearing Acts,
So soon dispersed in legal smoke
You’d think he framed them for a joke;
McKenna’s Service, Amour’s Charm
Which brought upon us all this harm —
And now they’ve got their own permission
To enter homes by television,
Observing with assessive stare
Our cutlery and furniture
And wondering, always on the make,
If anything is left to take;
One mutters in a furtive manner,
“Look, Chif., they’ve got a grand pianner!
Why don’t we socialise the thing
And give the voters each a string?”
Another shudders with aversion:
“Look there; 1 think that carpet’s Persian!
Raise taxes on the man who bought it,
Or order Calwell to deport it!”
Another says with shame and loathing,
“Look at those women’s skimpy clothing!
They must be shivering to their marrows —
Let’s dress them up in warm broad-arrows! ”
So if, by Television’s graces.
You want to see our statesmen’s faces,
Give credence to these words of doom
And view them in a darkened room.
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
&
jACKSOM 4
O'SUMJVAN’
*jEO, v
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating:
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
mmm
...■■ ■
MS.
;•■•■•'■
Discard that old-fashioned
washing-up dish
Throw away the dish as well as the water
—install a streamlined Wunderlich Stainless
Steel Sink unit—and rid yourself forever of
the drudgery that the use of obsolete kitchen
equipment involves. Wunderlich Sink units
feature a "Wunderbrite" surface finish and
rounded corners for ease in keeping clean and
sparkling. They are readily available 4,46,
s', and 6' long, backed with timber for quick
installation. "Falls" are built into drainers
and bowls to ensure rapid discharge of used
water.
Ask your Hardware Store, phone MX 2411,
or write Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, lor further
details and prices.
luncUftMxJis
COMBINATION SINK & DRAINER
A PRODUCT OF OUTSTANDING QUALITY OF THE
METAL WORKING DIVISION OF WUNDERLICH LIMITED
ROMfIIDSON TIPPETT
CONSTRUCTION
TYPIFIESPLL THE QUALITIES OF
LEADERSHIP
Weteteet
together/
The worth of the old saylngt
“A chain Is no stronger than
Its weakest link” Is strikingly
exemplified in the construc-
tion of Ronaldson-Tippett En-
gines. These superlative power
units combine, in faultless
fashion, the very essential
features required for long and
satisfactory service. Such fea-
tures as are here shown have
built for Ronaldson-Tippett
Engines a recognized leader-
ship all over Australia.
RONALDSON BROS. &
TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office; Ballarat, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street,
Melbourne. N.S.W. Distributors:
Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd.,
42 Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land
Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett
(Qld.) Pty. Ltd., Scottish Union
House, 127 Eagle Street, Brisbane.
PREC/SM*
LS&
POWER
eoMFlP&f*
r2sSk»JL
fXPEJIItWF
KW
■ ■■
RONniDSON TIPPETT
ENGINES
“Eureka”: An applicant for a job on
a mixed farm, involving cleaning out
stables, milking-yards, fowlyards and the
pigsty, was asked if he had had any
previous experience in such work. His
reply: “I’ll say I have. I’ve been a rail-
way-carriage cleaner for five years.”
* * * *
“S.”: Australian poets, traditionally a
tribe neglected and abhorred, have been
receiving some welcome publicity in Eng-
land, In the Spring, 1949, number of
“Poetry Commonwealth” —a magazine
recently founded by Lionel Monteith to
publish and publicise the poets of the
Empire a New Zealander, Louis
Johnson, has five poems; two other New
Zealanders, Kendrick Smithyman and
P. S. Wilson, have a poem apiece; David
Campbell’s “Hear the Praises of the
Bird” is reprinted from The Bulletin ;
and T. Inglis Moore has an excellent
survey of contemporary Australian
poetry. In the April-May “Poetry
Review,” keeping company with Roy
Campbell, Lord Dunsany and Herbert
Read, Philip Lindsay has the first of a
series of essays on Australian verse--a
general survey of the background, to be
followed by articles on Slessor, Fitz-
Gerald, Judith Wright, Rosemary
Dobson, William Hart-Smith and Francis
Webb. And one Australian —David
Campbell—has recently had a book of his
verse published in England by the firm
for whom Cecil Day Lewis is editor. It
is entitled Speak with the Sun; copies
are not yet available in Australia. Some
English house should, of course, reprint
the many fine books- which Angus and
Robertson have published in recent years.
In the meantime, English readers should
now know, at least, that Adam Lindsay
Gordon is not the only poet Australia
has had,
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Once I thought there
were possibilities in this newfangled tele-
vision business ; then I found my mistake
—they’re working it the wrong way
round! Who could possibly want to see
a radio-announcer? I used to enjoy a
certain radio character —until I saw a
photo of the bloke who took the part.
Never again will I revel in the character
I used to visualise —I’ll see an uninterest-
ing fat man like the fellow in the fish-
shop. Television could be a national
asset —if the studios could do the seeing.
If only the business managers of firms
could see the way people who really buy
goods rush to cut off those firms’ “jive”
programmes, what a wonderful world this
might develop into! Or the advertising
expert could see his public’s reaction
when “Mr. Somebody of Somewhere”
talks about the pain he used to get in his
left instep. The thing could be carried
further with an invention enabling the
listener to talk back to the studio, I’ve
never been one for vulgarity, but what
wouldn’t I do for the chance to make a
coarse, vulgar sound at the Andrew
sisters!
* * * *
“Metax”: Discussion in the British
Parliament on phonetic spelling makes
me wonder what people hope to achieve
arguing about the legislation of such
things. A revised system of spelling could
"I don't known how We'll get round a sharp bend if the family gets
any bigger!"
hardly be brought into use merely by
passing an Act of Parliament about it.
The United States Congress adopted the
metric system of weights and measures in
1866, but the English system is still much
used there. About the only Americans
who have gone metric are the scientific
workers, and curiously enough such
people use it in Britain, where it has never
been legalised.
* * * *
“Rooster”: Toughest R.M.O, I ever
met was a young enthusiast whose
methods never failed to differentiate be-
tween the shamming patient and the
dinkum article. Pains in the back were
a common complaint among the spine-
bashers. I remember one who openly
bragged that no M.O. could prove that
backache was present or not. He altered
his tune after trying it out on the new
R.M.O. Ten minutes of vigorous back-
massage, followed by a quarter of an
hour of exercises and the bragger realised
that he really aid have dorsal muscles,
He was stiff for days afterwards. But,
despite the doc.’s request that he call in
daily for the same treatment, the spine-
basher suddenly declared his back free
from all pains. And it stayed that way.
* * *
“Ray Whiting”: Nugget was a droll
little bloke and a good gunner, but in
training-camps he was always in strife.
Whenever he got an order he’d burst out
laughing. At “Tell off!” he’d cackle his
number and on “Take post!” trip over
the gun-trail with uncontrollable giggles,
This wasn’t so bad with officers or
n.c.os. who knew him, but if we landed
a new instructor Nugget usually copped
it, A perky loot at Nuseirat, in Palestine,
nearly had a seizure the first time he took
us for gun-drill. Nugget soon had the
loot’s eyeballs revolving, and by the time
we reached “With drag-ropes prepare to
advance” the two-pip artist was erupting
blood and lava, the gun-crew was in
spasms and Nugget was being bawled-out
and threatened with extra guards and
picquets. Now, seven years later, Nugget
and the loot work in harmony in the
same joint. The little joker still chuckles,
but not when he gets his orders —when
he gives them.
* * * *
“R.W,”; Our R.S.M., after one of his
periodical brushes with some officious
junior officer, walked disgustedly into
the mess, took one look at the sergeants
draped over the bar, called for a beer
and then remarked to the mess in
general: “An officer and a gentleman,
ugh! An officer by the grace of the
colonel and a gentleman by act of Par-
liament.”
* * * *
“Rotney Reg”: Hardly had a discus-
sion about Adelaide’s copy of the Famese
Hercules died away when the City Council
found itself faced with another embarras-
sing bit of stone. This time it was “The
Athlete,” a figure in the altogether, which
was first put in Brougham Gardens over
40 years ago, and has repeatedly been
abused, removed, restored, abused and
removed again, once during that time
being heaved into the Torrens and an-
other time being found on the steps or
St. Peter’s. It has been stored in the
council’s depot for two or three years,
and now the Town Clerk suggests placing
it on a pedestal 12ft. high to put it
beyond the reach of vandals. But would
that put it beyond wowser reach?
* * * ♦
“Spasebo”: As the Chinese Com-
munists are alleged to be Marxists I
presume they subscribe to the doctrine
that religion is the opium of the people,
and I can’t help wondering what will
happen to the monasteries of China.
They are, as they were in the days of
Marco Polo, lovely oases in the surround-
ing misery and squalor, tens of thousands
of ox-eyed monks still perambulate
around the altars murmuring their
orisons, and on festival days the places
are thronged with women burning in-
cense and paying the priests to throw
lucky tablets. Their vast parks full of
square miles of ancient pine-trees are in
many places all that is left of the arboreal
cover of the Flowery Kingdom. The
monasteries, some of which are richly
endowed, are still havens of rest for the
spirit, as well as sanctuaries for defeated
generals and politicians who retire to
them to write poetry when they’ve been
kicked out of office. It would be con-
sistent with the reasonable attitude of the
Chinese if they preserved them as insur-
ances against future purges.
* * * ♦
“Jocelyn D,”: Indicative of the
modern disregard for public property
was a radio stunt perpetrated recently.
A competitor in one of the “give-away”
shows was required to go to the Sydney
Public Library and make sufficient fuss
to ensure that everyone saw him tearing
a book to pieces, page by page. To keep
within the law the book really belonged
to the sponsors of the show, but the
reading public was ignorant of that fact.
The competitor carried out his assign-
ment, the only result being that several
people looked mildly at him and finally
an attendant suggested that he was
“making rather a mess on the floor, old
man.” However, in a city where passers-
by casually watch policemen being
bashed by thugs, the fate of a mere book
would mean less than nothing,
* * * ♦
“Helldud”: Postal officials in many
Australian centres overrun by U.S.A.
troops during the war sigh longingly for
their return and the easily-earned dough
their longwinded cables provided. The
Yanks were the world’s most prolific
senders of cables, and expense was no
object. They made no attempt at precis-
writing or abbreviation, and their mes-
sages cost them a mint of money. That
was where some post office shrewdies
cashed in. Accepting the longwinded
cables they would place them aside until
the rush subsided, then get down to busi-
ness. Adepts at word-economy, they’d
rewrite the messages, conveying the full
text in a quarter of the number of words
used by the Yank, and the difference in
cash was theirs.
FAITH.
“Mr. Bevin, on the Paris Conference agreement:
‘I have faith in our neighbors; I hope they have
faith in us.’ ”
They’ve wrecked, of the precepts that Moses
Brought down from the Mount for our weal,
With relish, the one that imposes
Some stigma on people who steal;
The Tenth —is it not?—that so battles
The covetous view of our nest,
Our missus, our goods and our chattels,
They’ve tramped on with singular zest;
The First (other gods), and the other
Concerning addiction to kill —
Who doubts if there were yet another,
Or Thousandth, they’d treat it as ill?
What odds! With the faith of a Bevin
Held high o’er the wrack and the wreck,
We turn—with a side-glance to Heaven —
The other cheek, too, for a peck;
Maintaining they couldn’t be nicer—
At least, let us try to suppose—
Though the Old Man’s a bit of a' twicer,
And the rest are a bit on the nose.
N.S.W.
MACANN.


ABORIGINALITIES
“S.E.”: As the water started to bubble
Charlie grabbed the tea-package and
chucked in a handful. He was lifting the
billy off the fire with a stick when Bob
mooched over, dropped alongside, and
produced his pannikin. “Gripes, I
might’ve made it a bit strong f’r you,”
Charlie commented. “You like it pretty
weak, don’t y’?” “Aw, it’ll do,” Bob
answered easily, “I’m dry as a wooden
devil. Pour it out.” Charlie picked up
the billy and eyed the tea. “Yair, it’s
pretty black, an’ there’s no more water,”
he went on. “I wouldn’t’ve done it if I’d
remembered. Honest. Ain’t put out
about it, are y’. Bob?” “ ’Course I ain’t.
Let’s have it.” “Well, I always reckon
it’s enough to put a man out,” said
Charlie, banging the side of the billy to
settle the leaves. “ ’Specially when he’s
real thirsty. Trouble was, I clean f’rgot.
Dinkum I did.” “Awright, awright, pour
us a drink, an’ shut up.” Charlie’s eyes
narrowed, and he eyed the other sus-
piciously. “Well I told y’ how it hap-
pened,” he defended. “ ’Sno good blamin’
me. Bob. Just because I like it
strong”- “Look here,” yelled Bob.
“If y’ ain’t goin’ to pour a man a drink,
put the flamin’ billy down, can’t y’?”
Charlie hastily shoved it across. “Aw-
“Hey, what's the idea ! Resoling y'r shoes?"
right, pour y’r own blasted drink then,”
he returned angrily. “Gripes, I knew all
the time y’ was snortin’ mad about it.”
* * * *
“Swampy Oak”: Watchirig a nest of
young mudlarks through the binoculars,
I didn’t notice anything out of place in
the way their tucker was being served
until one parent, after poking a white grub
down the throat of a chick, and then
watching carefully, suddenly pulled it
back and gave it to another. This time
the grub stayed down. The trick was
repeated at irregular intervals, on each of
the brood. Discarding the mother’s-pet
theory, it seems that mum was convinced
that on second thoughts the recipient’s
craw was sufficiently full.
* * * *
“Billy T.”; After much negotiation and
several well-oiled conferences, a football
match was arranged between Lankey's
Gully and .the Gap ; but it will have to be
played over again. The struggle in the
first half was rugged and willing, but
clean enough for all to enjoy the interval
and what it brought—so-50 port and
0.T., with hot beef-tea for a chaser. Then,
filled with enthusiasm and stimulant, the
combatants surged out as new men and
battle began in earnest. The forwards
dominated the play to such an extent that
everyone reckoned he might as well be a
forward, and so scrums staggered and
reeled up and down the paddock—
pardon, field —until it seemed a scoreless
draw was imminent. Then from a tangled
mass of humanity burst Bluey McCann,
the ball tucked under his wing, and lit
out for the other end of the ground.
Spider Ryan, one of the few who noticed
that the ball was no longer amongst the
legs, set sail after him and, partly because
he wore lighter boots and shorts, gained
fast. A bit wary of flying bluchers, he
made a grab at Blue’s back, but got only
his braces. Ping! went the first button.
Blue strained like a bullock in a bog.
One button and 15 yards to go! Away
went the button. Blue shot forward, the
braces stretched about 6ft., slipped from
Spider’s hand and'—smack! —caught
Blue at the back of the neck. He let out
a howl, dropped the ball, wheeled and
pitched into his pursuer. Reinforcements
rushed in from on and off the arena, and
the feuds of 40 years all got loose at
once. The ref. lumbered up, and was
about to blow one mighty blast when
Mrs. Ryan smote him and the whistle with
the butt of her umbrella, thereby stoving
in bis teeth, so he tarried not in the land,
neither was he seen again that day. By
the time the donnybrook was over there
weren’t two full teams capable of playing
on, and anyway it was dark; so, as I
remarked before, the match is to be
played over again.
* * * ♦
“Naturala”; “Zake” (B. l/6/’49) is
right in that, though a coiled snake may
hurl itself forward quite a few feet, its
tail doesn’t leave the ground. Australian
snakes, anyhow, are poor springers. To
get some idea of the serpent’s real
capacity in that line we must go to the
black mamba of Central and South
Africa. This reptile, slender in build,
often grows to 10ft. Only a few years
ago a hunter in Northern Rhodesia, see-
ing a coiled mamba, rushed at it with
his open car, thinking to crush it. In-
stead he found himself bitten on the face,
the snake having raised itself like a flash.
Cases have been recorded of the mamba
raising itself and spitting in a person’s
eyes. This would be when its poison
glands, which are soon emptied and take
some time to refill, happened to be empty.
Such spitting brings about an agonising
temporary blindness, which may last for
more than a week. Compared with such
snakes our Australian reptiles are slow
and sluggish, though by inference, since
our snakes really are slender, there
should be little doubt about a 6ft. black
snake being able to hurl itself forward
four feet or a trifle more.
* * * *
“Kelms”: I liked that yarn about the
bloke who passed the stick of gelignite
to the fisheries inspector and invited him
to throw it himself (B. 1/ 6/ ’49); but
“with only half an inch of fuse to go!”
No. If Joe left it that late he’d go with
it. The last half-inch—or more—of a
fuse “spits,” a fact that is unknown to
most amateurs, and which may account
for some accidents for which a “running”
fuse has been blamed. A “running” fuse
is one in which the powder, distributed
in a thin film along the inside of the
casing instead of being packed tight,
carries the flame almost instantaneously
to the detonator. I’ve never struck one
“ Yoo-hoo !”
myself, but I test each new coil of fuse
and it spits anything up to an inch.
When some improvised grenades—a short
length of fuse in a bag of blasting-powder
—exploded prematurely during exer-
cises in Palestine the “loot” blamed a
“running” fuse. My guess is that he
miscalculated the length of fuse and
didn’t allow for the spit.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Together Prince and
Punfch leaned into their collars, the chains
tightened, the share bit deep, the polished
mouldboard tank and the black sod
curled over, burying the weeds and
baring a new crop of worms and white
grubs. The starlings were first into the
fresh furrow, crowding close behind the
plough, and on their heels the peewees
poked and strutted, making a more
thorough search than the introduced
hustlers; groundlarks flicked in behind
them, content with crumbs disdained by
the bigger fowl, and then a butcher-bird
and old Jack dropped in, prepared to
dig and tug where a movement in the
earth indicated some crawling crittur
trying to get away, A pair of spurwing
plover glided across, alighting with a
little run that took all the jerk out of
their landing, and with them flopped a
blue heron that reared back and stood up
in air, then landed with a jerk. But the
old white-backed magpie that has nested
for years in the pine above the shed,
and that had fed at leisure all the morn-
ing, still stood where the furrow began.
He waited till the plough was nearly at
the other end, then took off. Straight
along the open furrow he flew, skimming
the sod, and the lesser fowl parted as he
came on. Old Jack hopped aside and
raised his wings, the grey butcher ducked
and snapped as the maggie sped over;
but the rest swung away, then curled in
again, like water behind a boat, and as
the plough slid across the far headland
the arrogant feathered aristocrat glided
to rest on the last yard of the long, black
sod., It was like Donn Byrne’s majestic
old red-bearded Uncle Valentine, who
used to harness up his pair of red ponies
and drive his buggy round Destiny Bay,
just “to demonstrate to the common
people the fallacies of democracy.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”; “Horseless Horseman’s”
reference to my old mates “of Prill and
Guthal” (B. 22/6/’49) sent me into a
half-day of nostalgic recollection, which
warmed my heart; but surely “H.H.”
rneiUnt Gulthul, which is how it was spelt
in my time. There was Big Gulthul and
Little Gulthul, and the late Harry Leslie,
boss of Prill Park, had a jumper called
Little Gulthul which jumped away with
£2 of mine on his back at Balranald and,
the burden being probably too much, fell
over at the second-last jump. J was hardly
dry behind the ears in those days, and old
Harry found me mourning the 40-bob
(two week’s wages) in the yard of the oIS
Shamrock and said, in one of those bursts
of variegated oratory which distinguished
him, that he wanted no creepin’, flamin’,
sanguinary sissies who couldn’t bet and
lose without howlin’ about it, and I could
get back to the station and pack my gear
and get to Hades out of it. Not being
used to him, I took him at his word and,
with the fresh calamity of the sack upon
me, saddled up and rode the 70 miles to
Prill, getting there for breakfast next
morning. The cook stared at me as I
fell off the weary horse, heard my tale,
restored me with tea and said, “Get that
horse rubbed down and fed. If Bluey
[Leslie] comes back and finds a knocked-
up horse you’re a gonner.” I gulped the
tea, attended to the horse, packed my gear
and headed per boot for Euston, five
miles away. A mile from the town came
Bluey in his car. When he grasped the
reason for my being where I was he fell
out of the car, laughed himself sick, then
literally hurled me into the car and took
me back, profanely assuring heaven that
he was a crimson fool for having such a
lot of lurid softies on his station. A
couple of months later Little Gulthul won
at Merbein, carrying another £2 of mine
at four to one.
BATHURST ROAD.
KATHLEEN CASEY.
The children run laughing dowrf the old
Bathurst Road
In the morning made sweet with birdsong
blowing;
Sun and shade are dancing where the grey-
gums lean
By the little white houses and the red cattle
lowing.
There is peace in the drifting of the misty
mountain veils,
In the whisper of the bracken where the west
winds pass—
But see, by the cutting where the wattle drips
its gold,
A dark shape lingers—there is blood on the
grass!
The noontide traffic thunders on the old
Bathurst Road,
Eastward down the mountains where the
heavy diesels go
With cement from Portland, coal and oil and
wool,
And chalk-white gypsum from the plains of
Ivanhoe.
B’ut when moonlight makes magic in the soft,
yellow dust
There’s a clink of ghostly shovels in the
mountain shale;
And sad is the singing while the gaunt shadows
pass
Of weary, men who nevermore shall hear the
nightingale.
When the trains come up at evening, in the
fern by Lennox Bridge
There’s a campfire glowing through the gentle
mountain rains;
And, high in the darkness, on the tfrow of
Lapstone Hill,
A shadow gang of shadow men who stumble
m their chains.
And the happy children scamper while the
trucks go sweeping by
And the coal comes down from Lithgow,
load on ebon load —-
But the west wind sobs a moment in the red
bracken fronds
For the tears and blood and anguish ’neath
the old Bathurst Road.
N.S.W.
From a mate of Henry Lawson:
The bush wasn’t always as silent as it is
now. When I was a boy, about 74 years ago,
it was a joy to walk in the bush with Harry
Lawson, or along the river running between
cornfields and the wheat-farms around Eurun-
deree. Every kind of bird seemed to be there.
We knew them all, from the wren, tomtit,
wagtail and reed-warblers to the currawong
and crow. There was an old leaning river-oak
near our home under which Henry Lawson
and I sat fishing, and we listened to the
warblers in the reeds. Birds from far and
near used to raid our orchard and vineyard—
blue jays, leatherheads, butcher-birds, soldier-
birds, silvereyes, currawongs, and sometimes
green-leeks and other parrots. When the birds
were making merry war on the vineyards, my
father had a visit from an old German wine-
grower named Kurtz, who lived about three
miles away at Eurunderee, not far from Henry
Lawson’s home. My father asked the old man
what kind of grape-crop he had that season.
The old German said, “Ach! Der crapes vas
goot und plentiful, but id vos dose liddle pirds
vot come und spoil my crapes. I vos alvays
in der vineyard shooting dose pirds. Ya! Id
makes no difference —soldier-pirds, plue-pirds,
silver-eyes und hundreds of dose liddle pirds,
vot I call twitty-twats, come down, und 1
vose shooting all der day to save my crapes.
My neighbor, old Buckoltz, say to me, ‘Kurtz,
vy you are so foolish? You do as I do, let
dose pirds haf dere pelly full und dey vill go
avay.’ So next day I stand still und vatch
dose liddle pirds -come und had dere pelly full,
und avay dey go, und tell dirty tousan’ more
liddle pirds to come to old Kurtz’s orchard
und haf some more pelly fulls, und I tink, dat
old Buckoltz vas a fool.” All that fun and
music, and now the silent bush. They were
happy days, those old bush days, when Henry
Lawson was a lad, and they all come back to
me when I read his verses, “The Days When
We Went Swimming”:—
And you’ll remember farmer Kutz—
Though scarcely for his bounty—
He leased a forty-acre block
And thought he owned the county.
And do you mind, when down the creek
His angry way he wended,
A greenhide cartwhip in his hand,
For our young backs intended?
Three naked boys upon the sand—
Half buried and half sunning—
Three startled boys without their clothes
Across the paddocks running.
Yes, it brings it all back to read those lines,
for I was one of those three boys.— G. Tarrant
(Harhord, RS.WJ,


“Pommy”: It was coming on to rain
at the saleyards as the auctioneer got to
the last lot, and the crowd had already
shrunk to half a dozen unenthusiastic
Spartans. Wally, the offsider, scrambled
smartly into the pen and promptly
scrambled out again as the scrub bull
which was its only occupant charged the
rails. Wally had acquired local celebrity
for his “patter,” but this time even he
couldn’t find much to say. Miserably
poor, of indeterminate breed and ob-
viously savage, the bull was a liability by
any reckoning. “Property o’ Mr. John-
son—nothin’ but the good stuff from
orfer that place,” bawled Wally. “Start
him off at ten,” chimed in the auctioneer.
Two more of the Spartans turned up
their coat-collars and moved off. “Five,
then,” called the auctioneer appealingly.
Still no bids. Wally looked down at
the ground, then up at the sky, thinking
tensely, then, as inspiration struck him:
“Worth five quid to any of yer to keep
the rabbit-inspector out o’ yer paddicks.”
There was a roar of laughter, someone
nodded and for five pounds the bull duly
went.
* * * *
“Naturala”: The nuptial flight of ants
(B. 1/ 6 / ’49) seems to be confined nowa-
days to only the most primitive forms.
There is no evidence that the most
modem type of ant, the Argentine, now
bent on world conquest, indulges in any
such Hollywooden love antics. For,
although fine and spectacular from an ant
point of view, the nuptial flight as a
method of propagating the species must
be exceedingly wasteful; so many virile
couples falling victim to other predatory
creatures. The Argentine seemingly does
better. Royal couples apparently carry
out their mating in the underground
palaces of the tribe. When approaching
maturity the gravid young queen leaves
the paternal nest on a lone expedition to
find a home for herself. This she quickly
does: settles down then to egg-laying and
rearing the first batch of her young, after
which she is attended by her children. All
this is quickly accomplished—which is
why the Argentine spreads with such
destructive rapidity; already more than
half-way round the globe, its legions look
like capturing the ant supremacy every-
where outside the Polar regions.
* * * *
“Chuck”: As Herb neared town he
noted a solemn little group on the store
verandah, and outside the pub several
more blokes were gathered. “What’s the
matter?” he asked, joining them. “Them
cows o’ Stambridge’s,” Charlie Hodge
told him. “You know, that he bought at
the Gully sale and was truckin’ down.
The semi left the road at the bend here
an’ ended upside down.” “ ’Struth! ”
Herb gasped. “Many of ’em hurt?”
“Three killed outright,” Charlie ex-
plained, “an’ another had t’ be shot, be-
sides a few more that’s bruised and’ll
prob’ly take weeks t’ get prop’ly right
again. Bad business awright. Beaut
cows. Stambridge paid nineteen quid f’r
’em, and they were worth every penny,
if y’ ask me.” “Yair,” nodded Herb en-
thusiastically ; “yair, I know. Who was
drivin’?” “Aw, that young Sanders,”
snorted Charlie. “The cattle got a sway
on, like they do with a big load, and he
got windy takin’ the turn an’ grabbed
the hand-brake. Silly goat. Ain’t fit t’
be drivin’ good cattle. They ought t’
stick ’im on the flamin’ passenger-bus.
Y’ better come an’ give us a hand to shift
the cows. Herb, and give ’em a drink.”
“Righto. What about makin’ that driver
help for puttin’ ’em over? Where is he?”
“I dunno. Ain’t seen nothin’ of him.
What happened to young Sanders,
Steve?” he called. “Sanders? Aw, I
seen somebody shovin’ him in a car after
the accident,” came the reply. “Must’ve
been hurt, I think, ’cos I heard ’em say
they’d drop him off at the hospital on
their way for the vet.”
* * * *
“Mopoke”: During many an all-night
vigil over fishing-lines, never yet have I
noticed the so-called “darkest hour be-
fore the dawn” period with which
“If THIS is the Cubherbedt's free-bedicide forbulary I've HAD it!”
novelists try to make a story dramatic.
If the sky is clear of clouds the light of
the stars will keep that ‘‘dark hour” in
check. On nights when the clouds are
high up the dawn is preceded by a thin
“light” hour. A faint glow of the
approaching sun, though well below the
horizon, is reflected by the high clouds.
This thin glow, when clouds are not
present, is outshone by the stars and not
usually noticed. It is a false dawn, and
is lost with the light of the true dawn.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were doing a bit of
fencing out at Ooma when Nabawa Jack
arrived on his way to Bogan Gate, They
got a barmaid at the pub,” he announced.
“They tell me she’s a pretty good sort.
I’m off in t’ have a few drinks an’ see
how she is.” As he disappeared, Mat
said, “That’ll tell y*. Some blokes has
only got t’ hear about some woman an’
away they go.” Late that afternoon
Nabawa reappeared, and I asked, Well,
how was she?” He seemed about as dis-
gusted as a man could be. “Aw, she’s
deaf an’ dumb,” he snorted, and de-
parted. On the following Saturday I sug-
gested Bogan Gate and a few drinks.
“Yair,” Mat said. “When Nabawa
reckoned she was a good sort I thought
we was goosed. But I don t mind a deal
an’ dumb woman; can’t talk a man blind,
anyway.” We hit Bogan Gate while the
place was eating its dinner, and we made
for the bar. There was a fine, black-
headed girl behind it and she looked at
us inquiringly. Mat made signs indicating
our needs. She looked at him, reached
behind her and held up two pots. Mat
nodded She was pulling the beer when
a voice called, “Edith!” She filled one
pot and reached for the other. “Just a
minute,” she called. “There’s a couple
of deaf and dumb chaps here waiting for
beer.” We drank the beer, stole silently
away and hiked it to Parkes, 17 miles
east.
* * * * ,
“Willie Bite”: That fish caught with a
tram-ticket (B. 25/5/’49) recalls an ex-
periment I tried while fishing the Yarra.
Although it was quite clear at the time —
™ S » down almost a foot-X
SWIU !~fmud
m Oukklv making I
eyesight dimme. Q y Jv S
lassoo of the forward keUick rope, fcast
who’badljT „^edli"o”a.s^wam Wy un;
fTirrvn ah it and I shrewdly
refrained 5 from puffing the noose tight
was of his tail,
until it was jusi xorwaxu
Work it out for yourselves: 9001 b, at 6d.
a lb—the Greek who bought it said it
would cut up into beautiful snapper
steaks.
* ♦ * *
“Edjudina”: Clear water in the bush
can be risky (B. 1/6/’49). Crossing
W.A. goldfields country after heavy rain,
we came across numbers of pools. Many
of these were crystal-clear, but deadly—
the complete absence of all aquatic life
was sufficient proof. The most dominant
mineral was, of course, salt, though there
were probably a dozen others, mag-
nesium, etc. Such water was the equiva-
lent of the alkali springs, spoken of in
so many wild-west yams. But, for-
tunately, there was other water, muddy
pools where rushes grew thickly. Not
exactly the nicest for tea-making, though
a pinch of kopi would have thrown the
clay down in a short time. But kopi,
indulged in too often as a precipitating
agent, is apt to induce diarrhoea, difficult
to cure. So make the tea with the clayey
water ; with plenty of sugar it goes down
all right.
“Gravelsnatcher”: Milky * colored
water isn’t always caused by pipe-clay
(B. 1/6/’49). When we were putting
through the road from Yelbeni to
Yorkrakine (W.A.) we drew our water
from the Yelbeni town dam. It was
definitely milky-colored, and as the dam
was fed from streams which coursed
through the town, the color may have
been derived from a variety of sources
on which we didn’t care to speculate,
We boiled our spuds m it, made tea ot
it and drank it neat from our waterbags.
I never heard a complaint about it, and
years later when I met one of the gang
I found that he’d forgotten many things
but remembered the water. Reckoned
it was the best he’d struck in the wheat-
belt.
* * * *
“Blime”: While waiting for some-
thing to turn up Ted put in his time
on the step tossing pennies with his pup.
It wasn’t long before pennies meant a
lot in the pups life and he learnt to
hunt hidden coins. As he grew up he
drifted round the bar and the local store,
“ a cLtf
thoroughness. Came the day when the
trotted in and proudly presented a
b coppers. Perplexedly,
Ted followed him To the street and
watched him dash excitedly across the
road and disappear through the doorway
of the bank, seeking a repeat perform-
ance xhat was 12 months ago. Don’t
know whether Ted saw prospects and
took a hand after that or whether the
mong. is just keeping step with the times,
but, spotting him sprawled in the sun the
other day, I produced a penny. At my
call the flop-eared canine half-opened
one eye, took in the brownie and im-
mediately returned to slumber- I P r0 *
duced a zack and tried again, with the
same result. Wasn’t till I dug up two
bob that the tyke dragged himself up
and came over to do his stunt.
* * * *
“Broke”: Murph had starved on his
block for a long time; then, with better
prices, it gradually began to pay. He re-
doubled his efforts, put in a few improve-
ments and developed an increasing pride
in his fat stock. “Suppose you’ll be get-
ting married next, Murph,” a neighbor
remarked, “now y’re getting on so wen.
Murph thought dreamily of the girl work-
ing at the pub in town, but shook his
head. “Can’t. Place’s doin’ well enough.
Bill, but it ain’t that good,” he replied.
“She’d be wantin’ dresses ’n’ hats ’n’ things.
Y’ know what wimmen are. An’ maybe
some pocket-money, too, an’ a trip m t
see a show now an’ then. No; can’t do
it with a place this size. It’d never keep
the three of us.” “Three? But that ain’t
three, Murph. No good looking too far
ahead. It’d keep two, wouldn’t it?”
“Yair, aw cripes, yair ; it’s doin’ that now,
Bill. But don’t y’ see, that’s all it’ll stand.
Can’t saddle it with another one t’ carry
when it’s already got me an’ Chif.”
* ♦ * *
“Conmurra”: The bark of a fox up in
the hills reminded me that I had better
change the sights on my .22 rifle. Last
winter I used a sharp V-sight, but didn’t
realise it was causing me slightly to over-
shoot by becoming dark and blurred at
the base of the V, due to my eyesight
not being like a hawk’s. The rear-sight
on my 25/20, which I use only on ’roos
and pigs, had a Buckhorn-sight which 1
found useless in hilly and wooded
country, so I changed to a shallow U-type
which gave a more open vision ; that s the
rear-sight with which I will fit out the
.22. The rimfire cartridges pack enough
punch to down a fox, and I find them
more economical than the 25/20 ; also,
the smaller bullet does not tear the hide
about. His alleged cunning doesn’t stop
Reynard from hanging around close
enough to “get his” after the vixen has
been downed. Having a gun blazing at
him from the rocky slopes after he s had
a meal on the flats and is making for
home seems to put him in a panic; it is
then the fox loses all sense of caution
and offers an easy target. He is not so
obliging when coming down from the
hills for a fowl-raid.
THE RIVER.
And all day long I sat beside the stream,
As amber sunlight fondled stones, green-
mossed, „ , ,
Where jade-gold fish, like figments of a dream,
Rippled in beauty once, and then were lost,
And all day long I watched the river-birds,
The yellow robin, linnet, barred bronzewing,
And, living opal, sonnet without words,
The blue wren, birdland’s scintillating king.
And then at night I sought the hushed lagoon,
To swim in waters chilled by mountain snow,
Laughing as I aged the crescent moon
With water wrinkles in her glass below.
But then, at dawn, I heard that one I knew,
And dearly loved, had yesterday been
drowned . . .
And still the green moss by the river grew,
And still the bush-birds webbed the air with
sound.
And still the waters smiled. A wild belief
Surged through me then; that they must
also share,
Must show the torment of my blinding gnet;
Moss dead, birds dumb, dark waters; all
aware.
Aware? That one word fathomed; I knew Man
Gave to all things the beauty he would see,
And that my Love and I forever ran
Together to God’s deep eternity.
VICTORIA.
Louis H. CLARK.
RADIO ROUSEABOUT
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w


Full time
ŵ
Service
The Trustees Executors & Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company, has since
its inception in 1878 given the whole of its lime to the provision of:
• Prompt, efficient and economical service as Executor, Trustee, Administrator or Agent.
• It cannot ,die or leave the country. Its services go on forever,
i# It is specially constituted under Act of Parliament.
• It offers ample security for the performance of trusts.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Eennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton,
M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng-; G. D. Young; W. Sydney Jones.
General Manager; W. Sydney Jones.
401
Capital
I BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE
(paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £964,692.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Dr. H. J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., L.L.8., K.
N.S.W. Manager: C, B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
OK
COLUM
Morris, Hedstrom Ltd. (Fiji)
f Dividends
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£* £* £* £* £*
1942.. €1,770 13,152 6 p.c.= 31,224 17,394 300,873
To Fiji Fighter Fund, £5550 .. 295,853
War-risk fund created, £160,000 .. 455,323
1943.. 94,769 13,152 84 p.c.= 44,234 37,383 492,706
To patriotic funds, £7355 .. .. 485,351
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. ■ • 480,351
1944.. 99,088 13,152 84 p.c.= 44,236 41,700 522,051
To patriotic funds, £lBO6 .. .. 250,246
To University scholarship, £25,000.. 495,246
Inner reserves disclosed, £128,000.. 623,246
1945.. 94,678 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,041 29,485 652,781
1946.. 94,210 18,152 15 „ „ 78,059 2,997 655,728
Capital profit, £42,872 .. .. 698,600
1947.. 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 88,536 736,956
To staff funds, £25,000 ~ .. 711,956
Capital profit, £41,154 .. .. 753,110
1948.. 885.18,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 52,693 805,803
Capital profit, £9740 815,543
1949.. 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 51,190 866,733
• Fijian currency.
Though the pfice of the scrip in this
big island merchandising co, and planta-
tion-owner has fluctuated according to
market, economic and other influences,
the business has moved steadily forward
over a long period, and so have profits
and divs. The ords. averaged 5.7 p.c. for
the 16 years to the close of accounts in
1939, followed by three lots of 6 p.c.,
two of 8 p.c. and then 10 p.c. for the last
five years, with a 5 p.c. victory bonus
added in 1946. Also, since 1942, £288,000
of inner reserves have been disclosed and
capital profit on sale of securities has
amounted to £93,757 —assets are still
worth a lot more than their book-value.
And with visible reserves heaped £127,120
higher than paid capital. (£739,613 in
219,206 6 p.c. prefs. and 520,407 ords.)
the two combined need turn in only a
wink over 4 p.c, to cover last year’s rates
of distribution.
Turnover remained buoyant last term,
thanks to ready markets at high prices for
copra, sugar and other island products,
except cocoa. The improvement in gross
earnings from trading was £41,190 (due
partly to “considerable” provision in the
previous year against fluctuations in
stock-values) and in income from invest-
ments £11,413:
Gross earnings— 1947. 1948. 1949.
Trading .. ..£189,072 £196,970 £238,160
Other .. .. 123,976 151,646 163,119
Total .. ~£313,048 £348,616 £401,279
Exes 219,755 250,819 806,436
Profit claimed .. 93,293 97,797 94,843
Unexplained additions 10,255 20,088 21,589
Profit per table ..£103,548 £117,885 .£116,382
The ugly feature is the growth of
£55,617 in exes., which made off with
76.3 p.c, of total gross earnings as against
71.9, 70.2 and 67.9 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding years. Including £21,539 dropped
into the insurance fund, net earnings
(down £1503) covered the pref, div. and
19.7 p.c. on ord. capital compared with
20.1, 17.3, 15.5, 15.6, 16.1 and 15.7 p.c.
back to 1943. A capital profit of £9740
was sent direct to reserves.
With the economic barometer falling in
U.S. and unsteady in Britain and else-
where, the board considered it wise to
reduce stocks (down £121,016) and
further strengthen the big wad of cash
and investments (up £130,950):
1940. 1947. 1948. 1949.
(Fijian). (Fijian). (Fijian). (Fijian).
Paid capital.. £789,613 £739,613 £739,613 £739,613
Deposits .. 4,946 3,897 2,680 2,646
Creditors, etc. 18,999 117,540 109,175 138,9'02
Suspense* .. 27,163 123,828 160,818 137,901
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 303,195 192,241 239,838 278,313
Plantations .. 49,247 16,954 19,363 14,796
Stocks, etc... 337,110 260,261 640,225 519,209
Investments &
cash .. 167,256 1,032,095 645,329 776,279
Capital value
branches .. 90,465 75,176 111,178 113,192
Book debts, etc. 136,244 171,122 178,676 210,026
* Provision for income tax, exchange, etc.
The year’s improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£1,339,257) was
£26,522.
Although some recession in the future
level of turnover and net earnings might
be expected, there is nothing at the
moment to suggest that the 10 p.c. div. is
likely to be interfered with. The British
Government has agreed to buy Fiji copra
until end 1957, at a fixed price
(£49 10s. 6d. for 1949), subject to annual
adjustments not exceeding 10 p.c. either
way, and that should mean much so far
as island trading is concerned. Moreover,
the co. is well placed to take prompt ad-
vantage of any trading opportunity that
offers.
Allowing for exchange, the ords. at
495. (58s. a year ago) return 4.5 p.c. in
Australian currency on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at 325. 6d. yield 4 p.c.
Net tangible cover (Fiji currency) is
765. 7d. prefs. and 535. 3d. ords.
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries
Electricity Meter and Subsidiaries.
Net r~ Divs. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
1943.. 57,900 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 50,241 7,659 120,733
Added intangibles, £9113 .. .. 111,620
Added reserves, £15,666 .. .. 127,286
1944.. 61,944 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 60,241 11,703 138,989
Share premiums, £13,650 .. .. 152,639
Added intangibles, £4109 .. .. 148,530
Net reduction reserves, £44,765 .. 103,765
1945.. 62,285 6 p.c. 6 p.c. 51,921 10,364 114,129
Share premiums, £154,781 .. .. 268,910
P. & 1. deficits new subsids., £26,695.. 242,215
Add intangibles, £25,542 . . .. 216,673
Net addition reserves, £12,391 .. 229,064
1946. .113,978 6 p.c. 7i p.c. 85,992 27,986 257,050
Share premiums, £123,874 .. .. 880,924
P. & 1. credits new subsids., £64,051.. 444,975
Net additions reserves, £3199 .. .. 448,174
Added intangibles, £87,019 .. .. 301,155
1947. .123,766 6 p.c. 7i p.c.100,377 23,389 384,'544
Share premiums, £163,176 .. .. 547,720
P. & 1. credit new subsids., £2821 .. 550,541
Reserve adjustment, £6609 .. .. 557,150
1948. .155,944 6 p.c. 7J p.c.117,468 88,476 595,626
* After deducting goodwill, etc., and allowing for
excess cost over par-value shares in subsidiaries.
Since the public became interested in
1936, two years after the present co. was
formed to take over Electricity Meter and
Manufacturing Co. and New System
Telephones, paid capital has advanced
from £570,000-odd to £1,662,382,
£350,000 of debenture money has been
gathered, reserves (mainly share
premiums) of £595,626 have been accu-
mulated, and at end 1948 there was.
£2,149,619 (it includes something for
taxation) coming to trade and other
creditors.
All that might look like overexpansion.
But the subsidiaries are mostly old-
established concerns enjoying a wide
goodwill. What the co. has done is bring
under one control an allied group of
industries, the aim being to eliminate
waste in buying and selling as well as
overlapping in organisation, and to
expand production and reduce unit costs.
There are now over a score of sub-
sidiaries in the group, and manufactures
include electricity meters, motors, mag-
netos and switchgear, radios, refrigerators,
vacuum - cleaners, washing - machines,
plastics, cutlery, petrol and other pumps,
oil engines, air-conditioning apparatus,
irrigation and telephone equipment,
stoves, all kinds of gas and hot-water
appliances and kerosene-heaters.
The switch to mass production of
civilian goods following termination of
war contracts called for heavy expendi-
ture, especially on the big new factory
at Orange (N.S.W.), where over 1300
people are on the pay-roll. It was taken
over, together with some tools and plant,
from the Federal Government in 1946
for the purpose of turning out electric
motors, refrigerators and washing
machines. At work’s selling prices, out-
put is now at the rate of over £1,500,000
p.a.; but it is doubtful whether this unit
contributed much, if anything, to last
year’s net earnings—apart from short-
’ ages and industrial troubles, it takes time
to train a large staff, develop maximum
efficiency and reduce costs to a minimum.
Over a million of new money was in-
jected into the organisation last year—
£loo,ooo 3| p.c. debentures, £277,716
fresh ord. capital, which brought with it
£163,176 of share premiums, and
£578,888 was added to the amount com-
ing to sundry creditors, etc. The lot
went mainly into stocks (up £775,356)
and debtors’ balances (up £341,643):
Electricity Meter and Allied Industries and
Subsidiaries.
1945. 1946. 1947. 1948.
£ £ £ £
Parent’s capital 865,352 1,166,691 1,384,666 1,662,382
Outside
interests* .. 51,615 44,708 47,650 51,112
Debentures .. 150,000 250,000 253,383 354,625
Sundry
creditors! •. 528,889 990,068 1,570,731 2,149,619
Inter-co.
balances .. 29,939 —* 20,429
Freehold, plant
etc. .. . . 408,564 760,271 989,957 1,029,631
Stocks.. ~ 668,505 1,119,960 1,671,899 2,447,255
Debtors’
balances, etc. 520,058 823,518 935,023 1,276,666
Cash and de-
posits .. 204,918 82,707 86,373 147,121
Intangibles .. 121,222 172,577 259,596 259,452
Inter-co.
balances .. 8,663 15,087
• Including proportion reserves, t Including tax
provision.
When the books closed there was still
over 16s. of outside money at risk in the
business for every pound belonging to
share and debenture holders. However,
the more-or-less liquid surplus improved
by £464,051, reaching £1,346,369. Net
addition to fixed assets was £39,674.
The year’s turnover (amount unstated)
increased by over £2,000,000. Aggregate
net earnings were £155,944 (up £32,178),
which covered the pref. div. and 10.1 p.c.
on average ord. capital as against 9.3,
10.1, 7.3, 7.5, and 7 p.c. back to 1943.
The div. was kept at p.c. The profit
was written after allowing a generous
£201,017 for depreciation, plus £142,000
for special depreciation of plant and
Stock.
Results for the first five months of
1949 compare favorably with the corres-
ponding period of 1948. But changing
economic and other conditions herald
the approach of. a buyers’ market for
practically all lines the co, produces. The
market for electric stoves, vacuum-
cleaners and domestic refrigeration units
has already reached, saturation point, and,
for the first time in over a decade, over-
'seas competition is beginning to make
itself felt. Much will depend upon the
extent to which the’ weakness in the
American price structure makes itself felt
in the sterling area, and upon what
happens in connection with the Aus-
tralian-sterling exchange rate. The
danger, is that declining overseas prices
will hit our economy at its weakest point,
owing to the relative inflexibility of the
costs structure we have built up. All that
can be said definitely at the moment is
that the board is fully alive to its
problems.
At 295. 3d. (345. 9d. early in 1949) the
ords. return 5.1 p.c. on a 1\ p.c. div.
basis. The prefs. at 30s. yield 4 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £22 11s. 7d. prefs. and
275. 7d. ords.
Guinea Airways, Ltd.
r —Dividends.— N
Net Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1944 .. 18,018 5,600 5,600 1,818 17,135
81 p.c.
1945 .. 5,774 5,600 2,800 14,509
2\ p.c.
1946 .. 7,993 5,600 2,000 393 14,902
Unexplained addition res., £12,567 .. 27,469
From “Special Depreciation Reserve,”
£52,015 79,484
7 p.c.
1947 .. 16,247 5,600 6,600 5,047 84,531
Compensation, Darwin service, £18,440 102,971
1948 .. 16,599 «,600 5,600 5,399 108,370
Profits prior years, £15,000 .. ~ 123,370
1949 .. 12,314 5,600 5,600 1,114 124,484
Competition, war and shabby treatment
by the Federal Government crippled the
enterprising efforts of this co. in develop-
ment of air-transport. As the 1930’s
drew to a close competition had skimmed
most of the cream off the once highly-
profitable service the co. pioneered be-
tween the coast and the goldfields in
New Guinea. Various , factors, mainly
Government policy and the road the
Army built from the coast to the gold-
fields, have now ruled out resumption of
profitable air operations here. Mean-
while, the co. turned attention to Aus-
tralia, where it opened up and success-
fully operated the Adelaide-Darwin
service, until a monopoly-hungry Govern-
ment took over the route and refused to
renew the co.’s licence toward the end
of 1947.
That restricted the co.’s air service to
S. Aus. and Broken Hill, with an official
taboo on opening up any new routes,
even within the State. The board, how-
ever, has been able to supplement earn-
ings from the reduced air-service by re-
turns from a pile of investments and cash
built up from various compensation and
other payments, allowances for deprecia-
tion and reduction of debtors’ balances,
etc.
The co. now has four machines, three
Douglas and one Lockheed. Those not in
use by the co. itself have been chartered
or used by A.N.A. at rates which
“materially contributed to the overall
profit on flying.” Before allowing for
taxation (£6821, down £11,175), profit
from flying last term was £10,775, and
from investments £8364. The net result
(£12,314, down £4285) was 7.7 p.c. on
the £160,000 of capital (half 7 p.c. par-
ticipating pref. and the other half ord.)
as against 10.3 p.c. and 10.1 p.c. for the
two previous years. In addition £26,008
was received on account of previous
operations—£2s,lo3 in settlement of a
claim under the old agreement with the
Government' and £905 adjustment on sale
of spares. Of the £26,008, £15,000 was
sent to reserves and the balance (£11,008)
earmarked as provision for taxation.
It all enabled £67,667 to be added to
shareholdings, which, apart from 20,000
£1 ords. in Australian National Hotels
Pty. (Hobart), consist mainly of 5 p.c.
preference securities:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £160,000 £160,000 £160,000 £160,000
Special depreci-
ation reserve 50,251
Creditors .. 40,466 56,649 82,218 47,513
Tax prov’sn .. 13,568 23,040 24,924 87,866
Fixed assets.. 44,375 70,998 64,785 48,491
War claims.. 9,818 9,493
Debtors .. 44,814 4,278 18,327 4,211
Shares, etc. 20,764 88,401
Cash, etc. .. 185,480 247,851 230,036 237,150
Cash, etc., includes £200,000 3i p.c. Com-
monwealth bonds. The more-or-less
liquid surplus increased by £32,407,
reachiqg £236,002, or £156,000 more than
repayment of pref. capital would call
for.
Repayment is unlikely because a first
prerequisite is consent of holders of
75 p.c. of the pref. shares, and their
capital and continued payment of the
minimum 7 p.c. div, (participating rights
don’t amount to much now) are both
more or less secure. So the board has
decided to continue the present air-service
until opportunity arises of “again assum-
ing our rightful place as a pioneer of
civil aviation.” When that will be the
board itself doesn’t know. Abolition of
petrol-rationing isn’t likely to provide
the answer. Meanwhile, doubt is whether
7 p.c. to the ords. can be maintained ;
much depends upon continuance of satis-
factory chartering arrangements with
A.N.A., which owns about 5 p.c. of the
co.’s ord. capital.
The market, which sooner or later
anticipates some adjustment of the
capital account, prices the ords. at 305,,
at which figure the return is 4.6 p.c. on a
7 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 245. 6d.
give an immediate yield of 5.7 p.c. Net
tangible cover is 71s. 2d. prefs, and
51s. 2d. ords.
The Mt. Eba Affair
In the N. S. Wales Parliament last
week Assemblyman H. B. Turner asked
Attorney-General Martin to officially
probe the Mt. Eba affair and find out
whether there had been any manipulation
of the scrip and whether John Woolcott
Forbes was associated with this and
some other ventures. The question was
put on the notice-paper, and the Minis-
ter had not replied when the “Wild Cat”
went to press.
The story, told in the “Business Rob-
bery” and “Wild Cat” columns of The
Bulletin as it unfolded, begins with the
sale of options by Syndicate Mining
Options, Ltd., a Sydney concern with
N. V. Stuart and G. Barton on the board.
Over the last 18 months it sold mining
options in W.A. —three on the goldfields
and two at Greenbushes —to five cos.,
namely, Mt. Eba Gold Mines, Cool-
gardie Gold Mines, North Golden Mile


DAVIES & OOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt,
Position Vacant.
Cairns Modem Panel Shop, equipped with
modem equipment, requires first-class
panel-beaters. Remuneration according to
ability. Apply P.O. Box 907, Cairns.
MATER MISERICORDIAE
PUBLIC HOSPITALS, BRISBANE
800 BEDS. 12 RESIDENT MEDICAL
OFFICERS.
Salary range: £473/10/- p.a. to
£673/10/- p.a.,
plus board, lodging and laundry.
Vacancies exist for two (2) RESIDENT
MEDICAL OFFICERS at the above
Hospitals.
Applications enclosing three (3) testi-
monials and stating age, qualifications
and experience and earliest date available
for duty should be addressed to the under-
signed.
H. A. HEGARTT, Secretary,
Mater Misericordiae Hospitals,
Justice Chambers,
17a Adelaide Street,
BRISBANE, BA.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
n
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
WOOL PRICES RELY ON
OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT
This year’s figures show substantial increases on those
of last year, and both earnings and expenses are much
the largest Goldsbrough, Mort, and Co,, Ltd,, has ever
recorded.
This was stated by Mr. K. M.
Niall, chairman, at the annual meet-
ing held in Melbourne, Friday, 24th
June.
During the year, he said, wool
prices touched an all-time high in
value, and this, coupled with a
generally good season and a sustained
demand for meat, kept stock prices
also at a very high figure. These
factors have been reflected in com-
mission earnings, and also have
enabled our clients to restore their
position after the drought period
which ended in the south in 1945 and
in New South Wales in early 1947.
The number of bales of wool handled
for the year was the highest since
1944-45, and the gross value was by
far the highest in the history of the
company. The number of stock
handled show very satisfactory in-
creases, sheep numbers increasing
from 4,150,000 to 5,250,000, whilst
cattle handled totalled 295,000 and
pigs 115,000. Value of land sold was
approximately £1,950,000.
PESTS CAUSE LOSS
Once again I am compelled to
refer to certain major pests which
have caused, and are still causing,
considerable loss and concern to
those engaged in the industry. I refer
to the blowfly, the rabbit, and noxious
weeds.
The Mules operation, from our
experience, has proved helpful in
combating the fly, but in a bad fly
season does not afford complete im-
munity, and much additional labour
—which is not available —is necessary
to cope with the pest.
Rabbits are completely out of hand
in some districts, and it is heart-
breaking to see the devastation
wrought upon otherwise productive
country. The need for some bio-
logical control is urgent. It is at
present absolutely impossible to re-
establish the netting fences which
enabled the industry to bring the
pest under control in the prewar
years.
AUSTRALIAN WOOL BROKERS
AND PRODUCE CO. LTD.
This Company, which sold some-
thing over 20,000 bales per season in
Sydney, was finding it difficult to
carry on profitably under present-
day conditions of steadily increasing
expenses pressing on their limited
earning power. This induced them
to offer to sell us their wool store
and the goodwill of their wool, pro-
duce and stock business, which offer
we have accepted, and the sale is to
take effect as from Ist July next, and
we now await consent from the
authorities to the valuation of the
building. They have an efficient staff,
most of whom will be joining our
service, and we anticipate that this
acquisition will add materially to
our New South Wales connection.
THE WOOL MARKET
The high prices towards the end
of last season were maintained for
most types of wool during the current
one. Although the market continued
throughout on a high level, there
were two rather sudden declines —
one in late September and early
October, 1948, and the other early
in April, 1949 —in both cases of up
to 20%.
However, on each occasion the
demand again quickly lifted prices,
and at the most recent sales the
market had a confident tone. Whilst
these fluctuations of 20% resulted
in considerable differences in pence
per pound realised for similar wools
offered at different stages, generally
prices have been very satisfactory to
growers.
Practically every wool manufactur-
ing country in the world has been
represented amongst buyers this sea-
son, and the strength of the demand
is shown by the fact that, in addition
to the current clip, the total Joint
Organisation Stocks have been re-
duced from 3,218,000 bales at 30th
June, 1948, to a figure which is
expected to fall as low as
1,750,000 bales (mainly inferior types)
at the end of the current month.
If realisations continue on a simi-
lar level of values, the profits to be
distributed amongst growers in due
course will be very substantial, and
machinery already has been planned
to effect this distribution.
INDUSTRIAL TROUBLES
Once again the season’s programme
was dislocated by serious industrial
trouble —New South Wales centres in
particular suffering considerably by
the suspension of sales for nearly
two months. Quite apart from the
delay and loss to growers, a serious
position was created for buyers and
shippers, and undoubtedly caused
the diversion of orders to other pro-
ducing countries.
No one can forecast reliably
the future level of values, but
demand is still in excess of cur-
rent production, particularly for
the finer apparel wools, and there
do not appear to be any subslan-
tial stocks held in manufacturing
centres.
The improved position of con-
sumers oversea appears to be the
greatest factor in maintaining de-
mand. Because of its superior-
ity to other clothing material
they will buy wool if they can
afford it, so that a maintenance
of payable prices appears to de-
pend on the continuance of a
high level of employment in
Europe and America.
Whilst this would appear to be
the case in so far as wool is con-
cerned, it must be borne in mind
that other primary products, such as
wheat and metals,, have recently
suffered a severe setback in overseas
markets, which makes it necessary to
regard the future with caution.
THE OUTLOOK
The past two seasons have enjoyed
much better than average rainfall,
and prices for primary products have
been unprecedented. Good seasons
have brought about a recovery in
Australia’s sheep population, but
there are many factors which make
one uneasy.
High taxation, coupled with the
disinclination of sufficient good type
young men to face the relative isola-
tion of the back country, has mili-
tated against stocking to full capacity.
There is a serious shortage of labour
and, apart from the older and ex-
perienced hands, much of the labour
which is available is inefficient or
irresponsible. The normal wastage
in the ranks of skilled stockmen and
pastoral workers is not being re-
placed, and this is already a problem
of national importance.
Wool, and in particular the finer
types, has always been the basis of
this country’s prosperity, and a sub-
stantial decline in the volume of
production, such as it seems we may
be heading for at the moment, would
have widespread repercussions upon
our national economy.
FAIRBRIDGE FARM SCHOOL
Last year I reminded you of the
centenary of Richard Goldsbrough’s
establishment as the pioneer wool-
selling broker of Melbourne. Your
directors felt that this occasion should
be commemorated by some perma-
nent memorial, and, after careful
investigation, decided to donate
£J5,000 to establish four cottage
homes on the Fairbridge property
at Molong, NiS.W. One of the
buildings will be named “Richard
Goldsbrough” and another “Thomas
Mort,” and the group will allow the
Fairbridge Trustees to accommodate
an additional 56 British child
migrants and educate them for
country pursuits.
THE “WILD CAT” MONTHLY
Economic, Market and Financial Conditions.
Company Accounts and Mining Activities.
Price: 2/- per single copy—22/6 a year, post free.
Options, Greenbushes Tin and
Spring Valley Tin. The vendor
co. has said that Woolcott
Forbes was in no way connected
.with it.
Mt. Eba has attracted most
attention. Co. was registered at
Sydney on November 27, 1947,
and took over two leases in the
Gordon’s district, about 26 miles
east of Kalgoorlie. It kicked
off with a paid capital of
£17,000 in 2s. 6d. shares, all
put out for cash. The vendor
got £7OOO, of which £5OOO was
used to take and pay for
40,000 shares, plus £2OOO for
extension of option on June 8,
1948, and was entitled to a
further £15,500 if the option was
exercised —£5000 spot cash and
the balance as 15 p.c. of gross
proceeds of gold won. The
show was never a worth-while
mine in the sense of being a
co. proposition, and there was
never enough evidence to sug-
gest that it was likely to be-
come one.
From start to finish it was a
highly speculative prospect,
resting on the possibilities of a
small shoot which, true to the
history of the field, pinched out
at shallow depth, A small
quantity of rich ore and en-
couraging face-sample assays
from limited development over-
balanced sound judgment, and a
monthly profit of £7049 was
spoken of on a throughput of
2000 tons of 12.5dwt. ore with
a 90 p.c. recovery and costs at
50s. a ton. On the strength of
this paid capital was lifted to
£50,000 to finance installation
of a five-head battery and the
blocking of the expected ore—
-22,000 tons was mentioned.
Then there were changes on
the board, three Westralian
mining men replacing the four
Sydney members who resigned.
The crash came when one of
the new members, T. W. Green-
hill, manager of Paringa, said
that, unless another shoot simi-
lar to the one off the Whip shaft
could be located, the property
should be handed back to the
vendors or operations curtailed.
Work was suspended on May 22
last. Meanwhile, some market
speculators made money out of
the scrip, for which as much as
16s. was paid in 1948 and 3d. is
now offered ; others have singed
their fingers.
Coolgardie Gold Mines was
registered at Perth on June 25,
1948, to take over the Jenny
Wren leases 14 miles north of
Coolgardie. Paid capital is
£25,000 in 2s. 6d. shares, of
which the public subscribed
136,000, and 60,000 paids and
£lO,OOO cash went to the ven-
dor. The leases are said to have
produced 1114 oz. gold from 948
tons ore between 1938 and 1947.
In March last the directors said
they were perturbed at the high
premium paid for the co.’s
shares in Sydney. This has had
little effect on the market there,
the scrip recently changing
hands at around 255. The board
hopes that the mine will prove
a small but high-grade pro-
ducer.
The bottom has fallen out of
the market for North Golden
Mile Options, which was
foraged at Perth in May, 1948,
to take over leases (134 acres)
at the northern end .of Kalgoor-
lie. Nominal capital is £25,000
in ss. shares, of which 12,000
are vendor’s shares.
The two Greenbushes cos.
were floated in Westralia last
year, each with a nominal capi-
tal of £50,000 in 2s. 6d. shares,
of which 128,000 were offered.
Vendor’s consideration in each
case was £6OOO, plus 4000 paids.
Preliminary work is still being
done on the properties.
The World’s Largest Bakers
Australia Now Included in Famous Empire Chain
of the George Weston Company
Australians are big bread eaters, but, until quite recently, the name
Garfield Weston carried no particular significance for the average
Australian citizen. Overseas, however, the name is familiar as that of
a comparatively young man who has developed an industrial empire
within the British Empire, which includes Great Britain itself, Canada,
India, South Africa and the West Indies, and whose operations have
even overflowed into the United States. The inclusion of Australia
has now forged the final link in the Empire chain of the Weston
Company bakery businesses.
Right Hon. Sir Earle Page
Chairman
The new George Weston
(Australia) Pty. Ltd. will
acquire, as going concerns,
the well-known and long-
established bakery busi-
nesses of Gartrell White
Limited, Sydney, and the
Golden Crust Bakery of
Adelaide. The policy of
the new Company, which
will be entirely run by
Australians, is to retain the
existing executives and
staffs of these concerns
and to develop business
along modern lines, with
the most favorable condi-
tions for the eventual bene-
fit of all employees and
the consuming public. The
standards of top quality
bread production, for so
long the distinction of
Gartrell White and the
Golden Crust Bakery, will
be, in every respect, re-
tained by the new Com-
pany, This policy of
fostering the individual
character of any firms in-
vited to join the Weston
family has proved most
successful in other parts
of the Empire, and the
addition .to the Weston
Company of Gartrell
White Limited, the largest
business of its kind south
of the line, and the Golden
Crust Bakery, South Aus-
tralia’s largest and most
modern bakery, must be
regarded as a very fine
foundation for future de-
velopments of the Com-
pany in Australia.
The Board of Manage-
ment of the George
Weston (Australia) Pty.
Ltd. is all Australian, with
the Right Hon. Sir Earle
Page as Chairman. The
qualifications of this
eminent Australian for
such a position are beyond
doubt and his acceptance,
in itself, is significant of
the standing of the George
Weston Company and the
high esteem in which he is
held. Vice-Chairman will
be Mr. Clarence A. White,
whose long association
with Gartrell White
Mr. C. A. White
Vice-Chairman
Limited and whose very
wide and intimate know-
ledge of the baking in-
dustry in Australia will
prove invaluable in the
administration of the new
Company.
A third member of the
Board will be Mr. Gurn
Parker, Manager of the
Golden Crust Bakery of
Adelaide, an outstanding
figure in the bread industry
in this country, a great
organiser with practical
experience in the business.
Mr. Garfield Weston,
whose foresight and re-
mote control, together
with the personal efforts
of Mr. A. Eric Ellison, one
of his leading executives,
have been responsible for
the formation of the new
Company and the bringing
together of such an able
Board of Administration,
was, himself, born into the
bakery business, his father,
George Weston, being a
successful bread and
biscuit manufacturer in
Toronto, Canada. He be-
came imbued early with
an intense regard for the
welfare and fame of the
British Empire, a belief
and faith fostered, no
doubt, by his youthful ex-
periences and observations
as a soldier in World War
I. His practical mind con-
ceived the big idea that
the more industry affiliated
throughout the Empire, the
better it would be, not
only for industry itself,
but for the greater unifica-
tion of the British Empire
as a whole and, particu-
larly, as a provision
against future aggression
which might strive to
affect the food supplies of
the Nation,
The result to-day is that
the George Weston Empire
chain, the largest bread
bakery concern in the
world and the biggest bis-
cuit manufacturer in the
British Empire, now forges
another link in their Em-
pire chain by the inclusion
of Australia.
Mr. Gurn Parker
Director


THE COLONIAL SUGAR
REFINING COMPANY LIMITED
POINTS FROM THE CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS
TO SHAREHOLDERS, JUNE, 1949
Record Season Helps
Sugar Industry.
Australia’s 35 sugar mills
produced a record total of
tons of raw sugar
last season. The Company’s
seven mills contributed
184,000 tons.
Production in Fiji.
133,000 tons of raw sugar
were produced at the Com-
pany’s five mills in Fiji last
season.
Refined Products in
New Zealand.
Our sales of refined sugar,
golden syrup and treacle in
New Zealand totalled 84,000
tons, and represented an in-
crease of 8% over recent
years.
Distilleries.
An increased demand for
industrial alcohol was met
by our two distilleries. The
manufacture of liquid car-
bon dioxide for industry is
starting at our Melbourne
factory.
Building Materials
Demand for the Com-
pany’s building materials
continues high. Unfortu-
nately, our production of
Cane-ite, hardboard, plaster
and other building materials
was hampered by shortages
of rail trucks, coal, labour
and electric poorer. Despite
a world shortage of asbestos
fibre, production of asbestos-
cement products increased,
thanks to supplies of fibre
from our subsidiary, Aus-
tralian Blue Asbestos Ltd.
Refined Sugar
Shortages in Some
States.
Due to the 40-hour week,
shortage of raw sugar
caused by the Queensland
waterfront strike, deterior-
ated raw sugar, shortages
and poor quality of coal,
and lack of manpower, our
production of refined sugar
was below requirements in
some States.
Slow Turn-round of
Ships Raises Costs ,
Causes Shortages
Slow waterside work has
resulted in congested ports,
delayed shipments, high
stocks and prolonged stor-
age of raw sugar in the
humid tropical north where
it deteriorates. Deteriorated
raw sugar slows up refining
and aggravates refined
sugar shortages.
The enomous cost to the
shipping industry of the
current waterfront condi-
tions is a very big factor in
the sharp increases in
freights.
Compared to 1939, cargo
vessels on average now
spend three to four months
more of the year in port.
This greatly reduces the
tonnage each vessel can
transport in a year, and
results in great waste of
ships and crews. Costs and
prices are forced up because
the ships and wharves are
prevented from being used
to capacity.
Situation in Aust. Sugar
Industry.
Although we grow very
little cane in Australia the
over-all well-being of the
sugar industry is naturally
of vital interest to the Com-
pany.
There are some import-
tant points in the present
position of the Industry:
• The retail price of re-
fined sugar in capital
cities was restored to
4j|d. a lb. in 1947. It had
been reduced to 4d. in
the depression. The price
is now the same as 25
years ago.
• The Australian public
has had the benefit of
exceptional stability in
the price of refined sugar,
which Is now cheaper
than in the principal
countries of the world.
• Before the war, the
millers and growers were
consistently receiving £24
a ton for raw sugar re-
fined for consumption in
Australia. Despite their
much higher production
costs, they are now re-
ceiving only £23.1.0.
• A much higher return
is now being obtained for
sugar exported overseas.
It is only this favourable
development plus a boun-
tiful crop yielding a large
export surplus for sale on
the more remunerative
export market that has
enabled the industry to
carry on without an in-
creased price for refined
sugar sold in Australia.
Costs Outside Control
of Industry .
Factors tending to in-
crease the price of sugar
are beyond the control of
the , sugar industry. Ex-
amples are: — freight
charges for shipping raw
sugar, up 175% since pre-
war tractors up 66 %-
12 0% sacks for raw
sugar up 268% - bags for
refined sugar up 260%
coal for refineries up 204%
farm workers, mill and
refinery wages up 65%-84%.
The millers and the grow-
ers are actually receiving
less for every ton sold in
Australia than before the
war, for all the work, ex-
pense, land and plant, earn-
ings and taxes involved in
growing cane and making
raw sugar. The refiners’
margin to cover earnings,
administration, interest on
advances to mills, replace-
ment of plant, selling and
income tax is virtually un-
changed.
The 35 mills and the
growers (about in
number) have, through their
organisations, prepared a
report on the industry’s
position. It is expected that
this report will be presented
soon to the Queensland and
Commonwealth Govern-
ments.
If any illustration', in /
“THE BULLETIN” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for
the original.
Business.Rollery.Ete.
Not Loud but Deep
*An appreciative nod to the
Stock Exchanges for instinc-
tively taking the right cue last
week. The unruffled front was
based on something firmer than
a conjectural “tip that there
would be no strike,” as has been
suggested. It was one expres-
sion of the national feeling
—disdainful and calm. The
financial repercussions of this
crisis—serious enough already—
may have echoes for years in
some company accounts; and
certain logical adjustments to
the market pattern will be neces-
sary in specific cases, but no-
thing more.
There is, after all, much to be
thankful for. If the high winds
of history must again rise about
this country as they did eight
•years ago, the people are at least
being treated in advance this
time to a most instructive re-
hearsal of the Armageddon.
Nobody can be blind any longer
to the paralysing effects of the
present alien grip on our in-
dustry as a potential war
weapon.
Farcical aspects of the crisis
have been no less obvious than
its tragedy. All this “master-
strategy” of the wreckers is
centred on an elementary and
quite remediable weakness in
the constitutional set-up of the
trade-unions, which permits an
unrepresentative minority to turn
Australians against Australians.
The nation’s real spirit (which
even now has prompted a flow
of relief-parcels from the cities
to distressed families on flooded
coalfields) will surely prevail.
And a clear programme for re-
forming the electoral methods of
the unions is being drawn up by
one political party at .least for
the approval of electors later
this year.
Consolidated Zinc
It would be interesting (if the
figures were available) to com-
pare the Australian response
with London’s in the matter of
the coolly-received preference
issue by Consolidated Zinc,
though there is no question that
the fate of the flotation was de-
cided in London, Of the £2j
million on offer in 4| p.c. cumu-
lative scrip, more than half
(£1,375,000) was left with the
underwriters. But the Federal
Treasury had decreed in ad-
vance that only £500,000 at‘ the
most could be taken from Aus-
tralia. Perhaps the local response
was considerably less than that,
for the issue coincided with a
new wave of rumors concerning
the devaluation of sterling. In
any case, 4\ p.c. preference
scrip hasn’t caught on in this
country.
Timing of the issue was even
more unfortunate—and surpris-
ing—in view of the heavy fall
in metal prices that was still
going on. Though the prospec-
tus pointed out correctly that
Consolidated Zinc’s programme
had not been based on “the re-
cent phenomenally high level of
metal prices,” investors might
have been given time to see
what the new level would prove
to be. The corporation’s exist-
ing 4i p.c, prefs. were only a
shade above par at the time of
this issue, and now they are
quoted in London at about
19s. 7d. sterling.
The ordinaries are still further
below par at 18s, 4d. sterling.
Of all the big Barrier mines,
the scrip of Consolidated Zinc
has now fallen most from the
high-water marks reached during
1948 (that is, allowing for the
four-to-one writing-up of the
old Zinc Corp. shares). The big
strides taken towards vertical in-
tegration since the war, with
plans for further. expansion,
have placed the corporation in
the front rank of Australian in-
dustrial giants. Its record at
Broken Hill is one of outstand-
ing enterprise and efficiency,
but the new smelting, proces-
sing and productive interests
are hardly expected, in their de-
velopment stages at least, to
keep pace with the earning-rate
previously established by the
mines. Profits may spread
thinner over the enlarged capital
slice.
Incidentally, it will be noticed
that the formation of Consoli-
dated Zinc has enabled the old
10s. ordinary shares of Zinc
Corporation to achieve that
nominal writing-up to £1 which
was refused in official quarters
in 1945 for technical reasons.
In the transfer against Consoli-
dated Zinc scrip they ranked
equally in all respects with the
old £1 stock-units.
Reduction of the British price
of lead to £SB2 a ton this month
still leaves it about 14 p.c.
higher than New York. Further
adjustments may therefore be
expected eventually, and the
time is hardly ripe for a re-
appraisal of the Barrier com-
panies. Shareholders will re-
member that the recently-
increased but still very low Aus-
tralian price of £A3S a ton has
not moved down with the over-
seas slide, and that this applies
to about 40 p.c. of Consoli-
dated Zinc’s output. Also, the
lead-bonus system provides
some automatic adjustment of
costs to prices—in the case of
Consolidated Zinc, for every
pound shed by the average sell-
ing price of lead the net loss of
revenue may perhaps be about
15s. a ton.
Grocery Merger
Terms qf the big merger of
N.S.W. grocery interests, both
retail and wholesale, have so
far had little reaction on the
’Change quotes for the com-
panies involved. All but one
of them are already listed. The
exception, David Cohen and
Co., Pty., which has a whole-
sale business at Newcastle, is
by no means the least im-
portant ; its shares are evi-
dently rated the highest of all
for exchange purposes. Under
the proposed terms, each of the
four merging companies will ex-
change its scrip for ss. shares
in the new holding concern, to
be called Grocery and General
Merchants, Ltd. Their present
capital, and the amount of
holding-company scrip to be
received by each in exchange,
would compare as follows:
Amount
of G.G.M.
Capital
Present Offered
Capital. in Exchange.
Bussell 8r05... £132,826 £199,239
N.W. Stores .. 215,500 323,250
David Cohen .. 174,746 294,205
D. Mitchell .. 131,875 142,875
£654,947 £959,569
N.W. Stores also has £lOO,OOO prefer-
ence capital which is not being taken over
immediately by G. G. Merchants.
The extra £ll,OOO allotted to D. Mit-
chell & Co. is to repay a long-standing
creditor of that co.
Capital of David Cohen and
Co. is shown according to last
available returns. Shareholders
of this concern (which is con-
trolled by the Samuel Cohen
family of, Sydney) will appar-
ently receive about 335. of hold-
ing-company scrip for every
pound of their present capital.
Shareholders of Bussell Bros,
and of North Western General
Stores will each get 30s. of
G.G.M. scrip to the pound,
while D. Mitchell gets a plain
pound for pound,
Asset backing of the three
listed shares on the last balance-
sheet values, and their compara-
tive rating on ’Change before
the merger announcement, were
as follows;
Market
Assets £i capital,
per. June u,
BuMel , Bros . * gofod.
n.w. stores .. 225. 7d. 80s. od.
» av id Coheh ..
D. Mitchell .. 21s. Od. 235. 2d.
The x ai “vantages held out for
Mitchell shareholders seem
to con sisi ol more secure in-
come prospects after the amal-
gamation, The dividend of “at
J. east , 6 P c ; predicted officially
* or the holding company corn-
P ares with D. Mitchell’s last dis-
tnbution ot 2.6 p.c. and with an
avera S e 5 p.c. in the five pre-
vl°us terms which were pre-
cected hy 13 no-dividend years,
Annual losses incurred by this
wholesaling business in the
thirties amounted to £120,000.
Mitchell will lose its
identity and become the holding
company, with the other three
continuing as subsidiaries. The
two retailers, Bussell Bros, and
Stores each a compara-
tive newcomer to the Stock Ex-
change paid eight and seven
P er cent, respectively as their
i as t dividends. They were al-
ready linked by N.W. Stores’
recent purchase of about a
quarter of Bussell’s capital, and
Paul A. Cullen was managing-
director for both. He is also on
,he boa F d o£ tbe two wholesale
“mpames, and will take over
* e managrag-dnectorship of
Grocery and General Merchan t.
This new board stars other well-
known troupers-Orwell Phillips,
S ’ Cul en “‘‘JV’ C . uU f < re '
Presenting N.W Stores); Ashley
Buckingham and J F. Fhtcroft
Bussell Bros.), and W. S.
Whitmore (from D. Mitchell and
Combined sales will prob-
abl 7 exceed £4 milhon yearly;
‘^ ere w ‘ u ba 70 <? r , so B ro “ r y
sh .°P s . m tha chain besides
wholesale and manufacturing
lnterests-
, ,
York-street and Flmders-lane
are n’t too happy about their
large and pricey stocks of cotton
piecegoods. Manchester goods
in particular have become hard
to move, and many retailers,
where possible, have been cam
celling orders—something almost
unheard-of over the past 10
years. Some smaller wholesale
concerns are taking losses in
order to get their stocks down.
Towelling (terry-type) is still in
sh °rt Supply.


STOP
vow
Worries'
ntr>
Mar k ®: lotaHan
of VOtlg tTtiPTUBt.
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details,
measurement form and H Days’
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 0 Martin Place, Sydney.
VICKERS LIMITED
A YEAR OF CONSOLIDATION.
LIEUT.-GENERAL SIR RONALD WEEKS’ SPEECH.
The Eighty-second Annual General Meeting of Vickers Limited
was held in London, England, on May 24th. Lieut. -General Sir
Ronald Weeks, K.C.8., the Chairman, in the course of his speech
said:
In choosing a subject for opening my speech today I am sure that
no one will disagree with me in deciding that my first words should
relate to the late Chairman of the Board, Sir Archibald Jamieson, who
retired on March 31st. .
His career with the Company started in 1928 and he occupied tne
Chair from 1937 to 1949.
During the War many high Executives of Vickers were called upon to
assist the Government, and Sir Archibald shouldered both his own and
other people’s tasks in that strenuous period. The Balance Sheets for
1948 are a significant tribute to his sagacity. ,
Last year the Chairman called 1947 a year of progress; I would call
1948 a year of consolidation. ,
I would like to say at the very outset that our success is due to tne
skill and energy of our Management, Staff and Workpeople, to whom
I desire to express the thanks of the Board and the Stockholders.
Consolidation presupposes that we are preparing to meet a counter-
attack, the obvious one being the onset of a buyer’s market. In this
respect I hope, though one can never be sure, that we have made good
provision.
Financially we are strong and liquid; our reserves are good; in
research and development we continue to pursue a most active policy;
we have completed many and will shortly complete further important
schemes of capital expenditure which should lead to both reductions in
cost and higher productivity; we have extended and strengthened our
overseas connections; we have confidence in the technical ability of our
staff and we have many loyal customers; our collaboration with the
Services and their needs is very close.
Our second largest subsidiary is our Steel Company, English Steel
Corporation, with the sub-subsidiaries Taylor Brothers aud Darlington
Forge, and the 50 per cent, owned associate Company, Firth-Vickers
Stainless Steels. , ■ .. ,
This great undertaking is' threatened with nationalisation, a threat
which, if it becomes a fact, will be a severe blow to the general conduct
of the whole Group. .
The problem of nationalisation is essentially a political issue, and
the more important aspect as to whether, in the case of steel, it will be
beneficial to the country as a whole, has been obscured.
English Steel Corporation, one of the major alloy steel manufacturers,
is essentially an engineering works, the bulk of its sales being in the
form of specialised engineering products which are not scheduled in the
new Bill. The manufacture of the ingots itself is a specialised stage,
from the point of view of chemistry and design, in the final manufacture
of such things as boiler drums, rotors, crankshafts, shafting, etc.
The nationalisation of the whole or major parts of the Corporation
and its subsidiaries may lead to disjointed conditions in certain sections
of the alloy steel trade and the possibility of unemployment amongst the
present workpeople, arising from loss of business —both home and export—
which has been so effectively gathered together since the end of the War.
I would argue most strongly that it is to the benefit of Stockholders
and employees that none of the constituent members of Vickers should
be torn away by the operation of nationalisation, and your Board have
taken, and are continuing to take, all reasonable and legal measures to
protect Stockholders’ interests.
There can be no doubt that private enterprise and the application of
it has been the major factor in bringing this country to its present partial
state of recovery.
Directorate. , „ ~
I have to report the retirement from the Board of Major-General Sir
John Davidson, K.C.M.G., and The Lord Hailey, G.C.5.1., after 14 and 10
years’ service respectively; on your behalf I should like to record our
appreciation of their help and guidance.
Finance and Accounts. .
We have continued the general principle of transferring to the Holding
Company those reserves and provisions which had accumulated in the
operating Companies and were no longer required for the specific purpose
for which they were created.
It is a coincidence that, at the date of closing the year’s accounts,
we had sold our large holdings in Government Securities to advantage,
and therefore the Balance Sheet discloses a very high figure for cash;
since that date we have re-invested large sums in Government Securities.
The results for the year are good; it would be right and proper to
pay a larger final dividend, but in the light of the national appeal for
limitation of dividends we have recommended the same distribution for
1948 as for 1947. 4 „ ,
I have, however, one item of importance which should eventually oe
of benefit to Stockholders. „ „ .
At the last two General Meetings of the Company the Chairman
referred to the desire of the Board to restore the Ordinary Share Capital
to its original nominal value and he stated that your Board would, in
the event of the bonus tax being removed, give consideration to taking
the necessary steps to achieve this. As Stockholders are aware the
Chancellor of the Exchequer in his Budget Speech announced his intention
of repealing this duty. , . „ _ , ,
I should make it clear that while technically the proposals may be
classed as a Bonus Issue, in effect all that is being done by means of
capitalisation of reserves is to restore to the Ordinary Stockholders the
original nominal value of their investment and in some measure to bring
the issue capital of the Company into truer relationship with the capital
now employed in the business.
Your Board has therefore considered the matter and I am glad to be
able to inform you that the Capital Issues Committee has given its
consent to the proposal to restore the nominal value of the Ordinary
Stock Units to £l, and an Extraordinary General Meeting will be held
on the Bth June for the purpose of passing the necessary Resolutions
giving effect to the capitalisation of profits and bonus issue of shares.
I think it right to warn the Ordinary Stockholders that the writing
up of their holdings will not carry any implication whatever as to the
rate of dividend to be paid on the larger capital.
recalled that in his speech last year the Chairman mentioned
that the whole question of staff pensions was under active consideration
and that he hoped that final conclusions would be reached in 1948. ifiis
hope has been realised and a satisfactory scheme has been evolved.
REVIEW OF SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES.
VICKEBS-ABMSTBONGS LIMITED.
Two major items of capital expenditure, the extensive reorganisation
of the shipbuilding department at Barrow and the rebuilding of the brass
department at Blswick, will be completed in the Autumn and Summer
*Du*rimT r i94B six new passenger vessels and two re-conditioned vessels
were delivered from our shipyards, six vessels were launched and orders
were received for two cargo liners, a passenger and cargo liner and three
larg lnAccordance with instructions received from the Admiralty, we are
about to recommence work on the aircraft carrier “Hermes and also the
modification and completion of the aircraft carrier “Majestic.
General Engineering—Barrow Works. ... ~
We have a substantial programme including a number of winders for
Scnth Africa, low lift pumps, cement making machinery, soap making
machinery and condensing and feed heating plants.
Elswlck and Scotswood Works. . . .
The volume of orders for commercial work has been well maintained
and substantial orders have been received for printing machines, clearing
presses and general engineering work. , , ~
An interesting contract was undertaken early in the year for the
conversion of Sherman tanks to heavy tractors for the Ground Nut Scheme.
Southern Works. . , , . ~ ,
At both Crayford and Dartford we have delivered a substantial
quantity of machines ordered by our Subsidiary Powers-Samas
Accounting Machines, Ltd. ,
The production of Keeuok paint mixing machinery has increased
and we have added to our range of box making machinery additional
types which have proved satisfactory after protracted trials.
Aircraft Section, Weybridgre Works. „ .
Weybridge are now fully employed producing the valetta for
Transport Command. „ _ , „ ~ .
In July of last year we flew the prototype of the Viscoxint, which
was originally designed for the British European Airways. I his aircraft
has proved an outstanding success. Senior executives and pilots of many
important air lines have already flown in this prototype and, without
exception, have been highly enthusiastic.
Supermarine Works. ...... . „ . , „
We have received a contract for a number of Attackers for the
British Services and we expect to make initial deliveries at the end ox
the current year.
In December a new single-seater experimental machine, powered by a
single Rolls-Royce Nene engine, successfully carried out its first flight.
PALMERS HEBBURN CO. LIMITED.
The Ship-repairing Department, as a result of recent modernisation
and extensions of buildings and plant, handled successfully the highest
turnover “ a °, y *Dry S Docks a t Hebburn and Jarrow were occupied
continuously throughout the year and, with current orders and prospects,
it is anticipated that the Docks will be fully occupied this year.
ENGLISH STEEL CORPORATION LTD.
The results of this Company and its subsidiaries are a record for
any year other than a War year, and can be attributed not only to the
skill and efficiency of the Management and the Workpeople, but also the
high state of efficiency in which the plant has been maintained.
Since its incorporation 20 years ago, capital expenditure of £ll million
has been incurred, and there are schemes in progress involving oyer
£3 millions, of which in particular I should mention a plan for improving
Tyre and Wheel production at Taylor Brothers costing over £1 million.
In addition expenditure which is being undertaken jointly by 1 xrt
Vickers and Samuel Fox & Co. on a new stainless steel scheme involves
a sum of over £2 millions for which the Corporation will contribute its
bhar The sales turnover of the Group increased to over £l7 millions, and
exports have had a significant rise, which we hqpe to sued
Research and development work continues to be actively P ur ®
throughout the Steel Group; many improved Steels are being evolved
and new methods of production are gradually being put into operation.
IOCO LIMITED.
r Thi«j Pnmnanv experienced another successful year and maintaine
the MghefSV' turnoverachieved in 1947. Most of its products
continued to be in good demand.
ROBERT BOBY LIMITED.
Bob vs have had a highly energetic year, caused not only by their
efforts to satisfy the trades they supply and also t h eir
maintain delivery programmes but also by vigorous effoits to Prod
now and imnroved plant and advanced ideas for their vaiious customs
These efforts have been rewarded by a satisfactory year, an y
steady and increasing volume of orders.
G. J. WORSSAM & SON LTD.
1948 has been a year of considerable
and, although this work is not yet fully completed, the effoits to date
have resulted in a very substantially increased turnover.
COOKE, TROIIGHTON & SIMMS LTD.
This Company continues to experience a sa^ ac
mathematical and optical instruments from both Home °
markets, and the orders in hand justify lull production m tne taexory
at ordered for export during 1948 amounted
to approximately 70 per cent, of the whole.
METROPOLITAN-CAMMELL CARRIAGE & WAGON COMPANY
LIMITED.
Metropolitan-Cammell Carriage & Wagon Co. Ltd. had another satis-
factory year during which improved supplies of steel and other materia
enabled greater output of both carriages and wagons to be attained than
“ t P h°eVJm r pa y ny a s S deliveries were for export, including
motor coaches for electrified services and large numbers of wagons fo
Commonwealth and other overseas countries- Regular weekly output of
coal watrons and coaches for this country was also maintained.
A new design of integral bus has been developed by the Company in
conduction wflh Leylamf Motors Limited, and vehicles of this type are
now coming into production.
GEORGE MANN & CO. LTD.
The Sales during 1948 were the largest in the Company’s history.
A substantial part was exported, representing approximately lb per cent,
of the total exports of the Printing and Bookbinding Machmeiy Industry
of this country.
POWERS-SAMAS ACCOUNTING MACHINES LIMITED.
We acaulred a shareholding In this Company in 1945 which was
considerably Increased in 1947. A further opportunity of increasing our
interest arose in 1948, with the result that we now own o 9 per cent, of
the share capital, the Company thus becoming a Subsidiary and its
Accounts are included for the first time in the Consolidated Accounts
The trading results of the Company for the period to 31st December,
1948, have been most satisfactory.
AUSTRALIAN INTERESTS.
COCKATOO DOCKS & ENGINEERING CO. PTY r . LIMITED.
This undertaking continues to be well occupied and satisfactory
nrogress is being made with the Destroyers which are on order for the
Australian Government. We have been engaged in the reconversion of
Certain Merchant Ships which are to be restored to their pre-war condition
for use with the Merchant Service and this provides valuable woik for
the T C h°e mP D a r n y y Docks have been well occupied and the prospects for the
future look reasonably good.
VICKERS RUWOLT PTY. LIMITED. ’
The acquisition of the major part of the Share Capital of Charles
Ruwolt Pty. Ltd. was reported last year, and the Company has now'
oTSEatf.Kfs & There 1, .large demand
for rSwSE “oCt ”.nd the quality of their goods has a h.gh reputation
throughout Australian Industries.
PROSPECTS.
1949 has started well and, although in one or two sections there are
signs of ffalUng off in orders, the order book as a whole remains
” m "TlCh?rSr.“fc TSSi parts of our business Jhlpbunding
l‘3uHHhL p ta^
happen, we are quietly confident of holding our own.
_ The Report and Accgunts were adopted.
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
Inflation
After a half-hearted official
effort to control costs and
prices, a new wave of inflation is
now advancing in Maoriland,
since the wage increases, under
Arbitration Court authority,
came into force on June 1, and
the Reserve Bank has got busy
on the printing-press. In the
first week in June an extra
£230,334 in banknotes was
pumped into circulation, and
more has since followed. Like
a cocktail, the new money was
stimulating for those who
handled it —but MX. hasn’t the
real wealth in goods to back it
up, so the effects won’t last.
More notes will undo any
benefits of the tightening-up in
bank credit and will widen the
gap between the internal and ex-
ternal value of M.L.’s “new-
look” pound. With nearly
£so| millions in notes on issue
in mid-June, MX. had mil-
lion more than a year ago, when
its pound officially was worth
20 p.c. less. Before wages
jumped prices were scaled down
at many points under Price Tri-
bunal orders as a sequel to the
1948 exchange cut, but in June
the Tribunal warned: “A pre-
liminary survey of the effects of
the wage increase reveals that a
price increase in some industries
is inevitable. This will be par-
ticularly the case where the
wages bill represents a consider-
able proportion of total costs.”
This was a straight tip that
prices would soon be chasing
wages again. The Tribunal did
say it was determined to hold
the rein on rises and to keep a
keen lookout for any move to
profit from wage adjustment.
But if there’s no profiting wage
gains will still turn out to be
fairly hollow, for they’ll be
passed around until they come
home to roost in higher prices.
Industry wants price-fixing on
a blanket-ceiling basis, and the
P.T. leans in favor of this, after
wading through mazes of figures
for individual firms in past
years, but later it’s likely to call
on firms to prove increases up
to ceiling levels, so in the long
run MX. business will be
saddled with the same old cum-
bersome, slow-moving system
once more. Manufacturers don’t
mince words in denouncing the
Government for starting a new
spiral of costs and prices. Turn-
overs are wobbly, and incentives
to produce cheaply and expand
output are taking another knock.
Fletcher Holdings
After romping ahead for
nearly a decade N.Z.’s top-
ranking building combine,
Fletcher Holdings, Ltd., with a
brood of 10 subsidiaries, is
digging in and buttressing re-
serves. Turnover snowballed
from £692,201 in ’4O to
£5,600,000 this year (ended
April), depreciation allowance
from £14,160 to £143,717, and
subsids.’ net profit (after taxes)
from £17,090 to £78,020. Profits
have been level for three years,
while soaring post-war costs
have swallowed up a growing
share of total earnings, but
mounting turnovers have kept
the co. and its chicks happy.
Knight James Fletcher, head of
the combine, who achieved his
big ambition when all competi-
tors in the building field were
left behind, denies semi-monopo-
listic aims, and points out that
the co.’s share register of 1171
names for a million capital in-
cludes farmers, artisans, trades-
men, pensioners, small business-
men, financial houses and all
sections of the community.
Colonial Sugar Refining Co,,
which took a block of a quarter
of a million shares in ’45 and
since added one for every three,
is high on the list. Twin aims
of the Fletcher group are to
grow and pay steady divs., be
times good or bad. Today’s 6
p.c. rate could have been lifted,
says knight James, but for at
least three years the co, has pre-
ferred to siphon otf funds for
special depreciation and amor-
tisation, above sums allowed to
offset taxes, or as costs under
Maoriland’s price-fixing. The
co, thinks this will help it on
rainy days. Key materials aren’t
as big a headache as a while
back, and the co.’s steel stocks
are the highest for 10 years.
When the cement bottleneck
passes big industrial and com-
mercial buildings planned for
M. cities should keep the in-
dustry busy for years. For a
long time houses have had the
field to themselves, under tight
controls.
Salt
Dreams of quick success in
salt-production seem to have
gone to the heads of some
N. industrial planners, who
conjure up visions of big,
profitable salt-works at Lake
Grassmere, in Northern Marl-
borough, South Island. Half
the £300,000 capital of a new
co,, Dominion Salt, Ltd., will
be put up by the Government
and the other half by Skellerup
Industries, Ltd., Christchurch,
which till now has been parent
of a group of subsidiaries in the
rubber industry, and through
one of its chicks. Latex Rubber
Co., has owned Solar Salt
Works, at Grassmere. The
State’s 150,000 shares will be
prefs. and the balance of capi-
tal ords. Four of the seven
directors will represent ord,
holders, but the chairman will
be picked from the other three.
A U.S. expert. Prof. W. L.
Badger, predicts an output of
25,000 tons yearly when the
show gets going and 50,000 tons
within 20 years. After that
75,000 tons or more might be|
possible. The co.’s scope will
depend partly on its vigor, but
in the background is import-
control, which could be clamped
down to give it the market.
Australia’s High Commissioner
in N.Z., A. R. Cutler, V.C.,
quickly condemned the scheme
as an “expensive project,” be-
cause salt cotild be bought
cheaper across the Tasman. This
provoked G. W. Skellerup,
Dominion Salt’s chairman, who
hit back: “If we couldn’t pro-
duce salt more efficiently than
some Australian concerns we
shouldn’t be in business.” The
co. has to prove its boast yet.
One big Australian plant is likely
to be modernised soon to get
costs down.


A SERAGLIO has its uses
By Ethes Chiderson
BEFORE Sir Sri-Sri-Sri, Bahadur,
spoke those' fatal words, destined
to carry so much anguish in their
train, all was peace in his harem.
Through the wide Seraglio windows not-
so-distant mountains, culminating in
Kinchinjinga, shone, snow-white, in sun-
light as cold as ice. Intruding through
glass framed by archesi that extended
from floor to ceiling the sky was tinted
every imaginable shade of azure. Even
the mighty ice-ferns glittered with a ceru-
lean radiance. There was, in all that vast,
wintry landscape, not one cloud in sight,
and the Palace, built in the Tibetan
manner, was perched on so high a rocky
bastion that, though Kuthmandoo lay
below it, nothing was to be seen but this
sharp-set panorama of ice, snow and sky.
In one corner of the Hall
of Obeisance, an immense
room, a group of ladies,
their voices “uttering har-
monic cadences,” were play-
ing cherry-pit. In another,
hilarious odalisques were
engaged in exhilarating
games of “chicken-hazard”
and “tip-cat.” Six Sultanas
in great amity gossiped
apart while, clustered round
the heap of Tunisian
cushions on which Sir Sri-Sri-
Sri reclined at ease, several more-favored
houris refilled the chi Hum of his hookah
with balls of charcoal and tobacco, them-
selves, meanwhile, smoking the short
pipes called “chibouks” which harem in-
mates affect. All, indeed, was peace
when, looking round him with that
scheming, sarcastic expression which
(lately) his ladies had grown to dread,
Sir Sri-Sri-Sri, Bahadur, Prime Minister
of Nepal, Grand Master of the Most
Puissant Order of the Gurkha Right
Hand, Knight of the Most Refulgent
Order of the Star of Nepal, Companion
of the Illustrious Orders of the Tri-
Shakti-Patti and the Saered Tripod, tak-
ing his gurgling hookah from his mouth,
said, simply.
“I am tired of the sight of so many
blue legs.”
I—| E spoke in English. In that Seraglio
A 1 English was usually spoken because
the ladies almost to a woman had been
educated in a Patna school where the
Nobility of Nepal acquired that sibilant
“Oxford” accent their Maharajah loved
to hear. In moments of crisis, however,
each would revert to her mother-tongue,
and now murmurs ( pianissimo, it is true)
in dialects resembling Sanskrit, Persian,
Tibetan, Chinese, Arabic, Urdu and
Nepalese sounded from every group;
ears were always stretched to catch the
least word that fell from their tyrant’s
lips.
“I hate the sight of so much mottled
flesh,” Sir Sri-Sri-Sri, Bahadur, con-
tinued, holding his hookah at an arm’s
length while the water gurgled up and
down the tube. “It revolts my aesthetic.
Your red, red noses, dear ladies, affront
my finer feelings.”
He put the stem of his pipe back in his
mouth and waited complacently for the
storm to break.
His wives were all of the first rank.
Each had her own Priest, her Gooroo,
her own Baid, her Doctor, her Astrologer
or Soothsayer; each had her own Ladies-
in-Waiting, her slaves and her cook.
An “individual” cook was necessary
because these noble ladies came from the
Baizai, the “Region of the Twenty-two
Rajas”; or the Chaubisi, the “Abode of
the Twenty-four Elect.” Those who were
Newars could eat buffaloes, goats,
geese, fowls, sheep; drink beer and
spirits Those who were Magars could
take pork, but not buffalo. Gurungs
were allowed by their religion to con-
sume buffalo-flesh but not hogs.
(There were no cradles in Sir Sri-Sri-
Sri’s harem.)
IT was the Princess Padma who sprang
1 up—furious—to voice the anger of his
insulted wives.
“Be Exalted!” she rapped out briefly,
reducing the terms of courtesy to their
fewest possible words. “Has the Ineffable
One then drunk dogsbane? When, on
the Day of Judgment, the Mirror of God
will reflect the faces of all Mankind, and
each one will see himself in his true like-
ness, shall the face that looks back at Sir
Sri-Sri-Sri, Bahadur, be that of a toad?”
The Princess Padma was exceedingly
beautiful. Her jet-black hair was rolled
in a chignon on the crown of her im-
perious head. Her brows formed a
crescent. The Court Poet said that her
anklets (hiding her ankles) were “likq
clouds that obscure the sun.” He also
said that her voice was “like that of a
she-camel calling in her coaxing way.”
This beauty’s eyelashes were rimmed with
collyrium, the tips of her toes and fingers
were stained with privet. She kept her
delicious body meticulously clean by the
prescribed friction set up by her bone
flesh-brush and a swallow-stone. With
her aquiline features, her dark, flashing
eyes, her vivacious manner, there was not
a Princess in Nepal who could touch her
for looks, aplomb, or garrulity.
Hearing her, the wicked
Prime Minister (he was a
notorious rogue) merely
laughed unpleasantly, and all
the trembling ladies again
began “dropping stars.”
“An apple before reaching
the ground turns a thousand
somersaults! ” Undaunted,
Princess Padma quoted a
Persian proverb, and hitch-
ing up the short black
drawers she wore under her
voluminous but quite dia-
phanous trousers, she continued, taunt-
ingly, “Let the Rustic enjoy his bath—
indeed!”
By the first proverb the Princess Padma
meant her husband to understand that
though he might now lord it above them
his fall was imminent; by quoting the
second, she advised him, in the vern-
acular, to stick to his own occupation, or,
in plainer words, to mind his own busi-
ness.
Though they applauded her daring,
how her hearers trembled!
However, the Begums Lakshmi and
Devi, both of the Blood Royal, feeling
they must support her, went to her side
and, standing with their trembling fingers
linked in hers, they told Sir Sri-Sri-Sri
(in elaborate hyperbole) that they would
write and tell their mothers what a brute
he was, and all the other harem ladies,
continuing to “drop stars,” murmured
that they, too, would write and tell their
mothers.
I AUGHING, their husband clapped
■*—- his bands,
A fresh outrage made the whole High
Seraglio dumb with horror.
For, at this signal, in walked the
Eunuch, Nasil Ullah!
In a Buddhist-Hindu Zenana! It was
incredible! But there he was!
The giant, the Infamous One, who had
just been dismissed from his Highness
the Maharajah’s service for cruelty, theft
and the presentation of exorbitant bills!
As the ladies knew, the scent account
sent in by Nasil Ullah had been of such
staggering proportions that his Highness
had immediately dismissed him, unpaid,
and had himself ordered, from Birming-
ham, twelve hogsheads of Alderman’s
Bouquet.
There were other, more grisly, tales
told of this gigantic man, who, with four
equally powerful assistants, brought in
and set down before his new master a
roll of red flannel, a bundle as large as a
beer-barrel! Red flannel. Yes. Red
flannel; of a hue so disastrous, of a
quality so cheap, that all the ladies, view-
ing it, decided it must be flanelette—-as
indeed it was.
“There you are, my girls! ”
said Sir Sri-Sri-Sri brutally.
“In future my wives shall be
warmly dressed, and my eyes
shall no longer be estranged
from enjoyment by the
apparition of so much goose-
flesh,”
He signed to the gigantic
Nasil Ullah to leave the roll
of flannel and go, command-
ing him, as he and his assist-
ant eunuchs left the room, to
order some fifty Durziz—
tailors —to come next day, and fit his
harem out with red-flannel trousers.
“Leave the bale,” he added. “The Illus-
trious Ones may like to admire its color
and quality.”
So saying Sir Sri-Sri-Sri withdrew.
HP HE Princess Padma was a Newari. In
* babyhood she had been married to a
Bel fruit. The fruit, after this mystic
ceremony, had been thrown into the
Lesser Rapti, a sacred stream.
The object of this ritual was to ensure
that she could never become a widow, a
state of disesteem in Nepal. The Bel
fruit, swept away by a foaming torrent,
might float or sink, decay or flourish —
who could say? Who, therefore, could
specifically assert the wife of a Bel fruit
to be a widow, or not? There was a
further benefit conferred by this cere-
mony. A woman so blessed could put
a betel-nut under her husband’s pillow
should he cease to please her. This
simple act constituted a divorce that was
binding in law.
The ladies in Sir Sri-Sri-Sri’s Zenana
were perfectly well aware of this ritual.
Many were Newaris. Those who were
not were that evening easily persuaded
by Princess Padma to undergo the Bel-
fruit Marriage, and (after the roll of
flannel had been heaved into the
Oubliette) they celebrated these mystic
noces that very night, the Princess
Padma’s own (hereditary) Gooroo per-
forming the rites. By midnight the bride-
groom Bel fruits had been dispatched
post-haste to ,the Lesser Rapti, and the
Bel-fruit brides, with ‘their sisters-errant,
a bevy of thirty, each with a betel-nut
concealed in her palm, were ready to
enter into the second phase of the Princess
Padma’s design.
O N leaving his harem Sir Sri-Sri-Sri
had gone off to a gay drinking bout
in his own apartments. It was probable
that by this time he slept, yet, to make
things certain. Princess Devi had sent by
a slave a draught that was to be secretly
poured into his “chirping-cup,” the last
cup of liquor he took before going to
bed. This concoction of Bhang, hemp-
leaves and opium had been entrusted to
her by her mother, sealed up in a bottle,
with the words,
DOSE.
For use in emergency—give half;
As a last resort—give the whole phial,
and there was conceivably a certain
amount of risk attached to
the administration of this
nostrum ; but the ladies were
desperate—wear thirty yards
of red flanelette round each
leg? Never! Their minds
were quite made up on that
point.
According to the
Pundits there are two
ways of ascertaining the
arrival of daylight,, one,
by counting the tiles on
a roof, the other by holding a man’s arm
against the sky; should it be possible to
see the hairs on the back of his hand, it
is daybreak. Both these tests having
proved that day had dawned, and the
Princess Padma’s Baid, who had crept
into Sir Sri-Sri-Sri’s bedroom, having
reported that he slept soundly, going in
single file the ladies, veiled, their eyes
alone visible through their enveloping
gossamers, each attended by her own
(hereditary) Gooroo and her Baid, went
on tiptoe to slip the betel-nut of divorce-
ment under his pillow.
The Begum Devi, since hers had been
the responsibility of providing the sleep-
ing potion, went first. Her slender hand
was seen to disappear under the pillow ;
her Gooroo, who witnessed the rite, and
who had followed her in and out of the
bedroom, was prepared to swear to its
validity.
The Princess Padma, who
was much agitated, waited
till the last, but when every
other lady had fulfilled her
part in the ceremony and re-
turned to the women’s apart-
ments, she went in, attended
by her Gooroo, a very old
man, who had administered
the Bel-fruit rites to her in
her infancy, and even to her
mother, and grandmother be-
fore her, and who was her
devoted servant.
The Princess Padma of the Pangolin
(for such was the name of her father’s
dominion), stooping over her husband,
saw him, as did all his other wives, for
the first time asleep. She noted the thick,
pursed-up lips, the down-drawn corners
of the cruel mouth, the short and menac-
ing hooked nose, with its broad nostrils;
she noted his Mongolian eyelids, slanting
upwards under eyebrows nicked in the
centre like a bird’s wing, his coarse, thick
hair as black as night. His muscular
chest was broad for a man of his height.
As she looked down on him, some strange
emotion welled up in her heart; she
realised how dreadful it would be to
have no man to shield her from the
terrors of a hitherto unknown world, to
be cast adrift, companionless; deter-
mined, however, not to be unfaithful to
her fellow-conspirators, and steeling her-
self to the deed, she advanced her hand
to the pillow’s edge, but, irresistibly im-
pelled, as she did so, she bent lower, to
kiss, with her salt lips, the brow of her
tyrant, her oppressor. To her terror she
found her hand caught in a vice-like
grip, her startled gaze encountered her
husband’s eyes—wide-open. She half-
turned, but the Priest had vanished, and
the door was shut.
| T was quite three by the clock on the
1 following day, an auspicious day, for
it was the day, called Roz-i-alast, that of
the original covenant between God and
Man, when the petulant ladies who had
divorced themselves (with the exception
of Princess Padma, who still slept), having
spent the morning packing their few
possessions into minute boxes of yellow
wood arched and banded with elaborate
brass hinges, and having written to their
families letters they had n©t yet had
courage to posh made their way, sadly
and nervously, into the Hall of Obeisance.
There is a tale that when Joseph first
entered Potiphar’s house Queen Zulaikha,
Potiphar’s wife, and her ladies were cut-
ting up oranges, to make marmalade,
and that the beauty of Joseph so un-
nerved these fair Egyptians that they
sliced their fingers instead of the fruit. It
is as well that Sir Sri-Sri-Sri’s divorced
wives carried no knives! On entering
this room they were as completely amazed
as Queen Zulaikha and her waiting
women had been; but they were
astonished by a different beauty.
Round the walls were
ranged bales, bolts and flues
of —silk? They scratched off
the wrappers in one or - two
places—yes! Silk! Of great
strength, yes, of a very close
weave, yes, and quite opaque
—yes! But how fabulously
lovely! The true Turkish
blue! Thirty trays, each with
a name on it —their names
—contained, merely, Burmese
rubies.
Before their amazement
could find vent in words Sir Sri-Sri-Sri
entered, and he seemed just as usual. He
made no reference to betel-nuts. Behind
him followed fifty Durziz, and as
Nepalese women are not —as they say—
Purdah, veiled to the sight of man, the
Durziz immediately settled down to cut
out and sew the new silks.
'"F HE members of the harem, anxious
i in the midst of their pleasure,
whispered, each to her confidante, “Did
every wife put her betel-nut under the
Ineffable Pillow? Or did hone?”
No answers came.
In the excitement of creating such
dresses as had never before been seen in
any Nepalese Zenana, this subject fell
into disuse.
It was never clarified.
When the apparently reinstated wives
were habited, each in a whole bale of
silk, thirty full yards (as was customary)
going to each trouser-leg, there still re-
mained twenty bolts of aurora brocade.
Not a word of protest was uttered when
Sir Sri-Sri-Sri, remarking that it was a
pity to waste so much good material, in-
troduced into his household twenty new
wives—low-bom creatures, as strong as
hill-ponies. They were similarly attired in
baggy pyjamas.
“What Amazons!”
“What coal-heavers!”
“What coolies!”
Such comments were muttered in
secret, but the newcomers were, to all
outward appearances, amiably wel-
comed.
T HE Kingdom of Nepal is thinly popu-
-1 lated. Its mlers, laughing—the
Nepalese are great laughers—if doubtful
about the reception of some new bill,
were accustomed to ask, “What will the
Barwan Lakh —the ‘Fifty-two’—think of


this?” Still, it is a rich country. The
yearly revenue amounts to some nine
million pounds English. As far as the
Barwan Lakh are concerned, civil ex-
penditure (with no roads, no hospitals,
no dole to be considered) would make a
Temple-mouse feel rich. Taxes on mines,
forests (there are most valuable trees in
that region), land ; a tax on rent amount-
ing to half the value of the property, and
the accumulated gains of many Govern-
ment monopolies, swell the revenue.
Taxes are collected by Subhas, then
transferred from outlying districts under
escort and placed (at the end of each
financial year) in the Mul Dhukati, the
heavily-guarded GQvernment cellars in
the capital, Kuthmandoo, where a
surplus has been accumulating for many
years.
Though, theoretically, the Maharajah
is paramount, in reality the Prime
Minister rules the country. Sir Sri-Sri-Sri
had risen to office over the bodies of
many other candidates. He was ruthless.
He had a genius for intrigue. His mind
was of so tortuous, so subtle, so shrewd
a nature that his crafty machinations had
so far defeated all plots to overthrow
him. He had been six years in control of
the Nepalese Treasury. He had almost
perfected the plan that was to astonish,
not only that kingdom, but all India
when, reading the signs, he realised, in
his clear-sighted way, that the faction
against him (under the Maharajah s
tegis) had grown so powerful that flight
was the only possible expedient; he pre-
pared to quit the kingdom, secretly, and
in haste.
The Customs office is, per-
haps, the most efficiently run
of all Nepalese Government
departments. It was then
under the control of his
worst enemy, and he was
aware that he would have
difficulty in getting past the
posts dotted along the ninety-
mile journey between Kuth-
mandoo and Segowli, near
the Indian frontier. The
track ran, for the most part,
along the margins of pebbly,
half-dry river-beds, so deeply set below
towering cliffs, or vast mountain peaks,
each with a temple, a watch-tower, that
divergence from it was impossible.
BEFORE his departure, therefore, the
Prime Minister made every prepara-
tion to ensure a safe and successful
journey.
He saw to it that there were no “black-
footed” bringers of ill-luck among the
carriers of his doolies, palkis and palan-
quins. On the last Wednesday of the
month preceding his projected flight, he
broke fifty earthen ewers, exclaiming as
he did so “Evil is gone, and good has
come!” He engaged a virgin to spin a
left-hand thread, and, twisting this over
a goblet, he drank three measures of
wine. In addition to these helpful cere-
monies he consulted several famous
astrologers, wizards skilled in the art of
reading the future in sand, a science im-
parted to the prophet Daniel by the Djin,
Jibril, and by him handed down to the
Soothsayers of Nepal, who were highly
skilled in that black art.
The date of the day most auspicious
for departure was learnt from the care-
fully cast horoscopes of himself, his
wives, hi§ eunuchs, coolies and cooks;
and the servants, who made up his, so
numerous, retinue; and in these not one
single portent of ill-luck was to be de-
tected.
For the rest, nothing that could ensure
the success of his journey was left un-
done. His wives all carried feather
images of the Bird of the Heavenly Lote-
Tree. No one had encountered a crop-
sick camel. No one had enjoyed eating
the hunch of a camel during the stay of
the sun in Pisces. No one had touched
cheese, onions, garlic, meat or olives
while the Moon was in her third Mansion.
Every demon having been propitiated,
every Djin having been placated, every
lucky dream having been tabulated, every
omen having been propitious, Sir Sri-Sri-
Sri, Bahadur, Grand Master
of the Most Puissant Order
of the Gurkha Right Hand,
Knight of the Most Refulgent
Order of the Star of Nepal,
Companion of the Illustrious
Orders of the Tri-Shakti-Patti
and the Sacred Tripod, left
Kuthmandoo i n complete
darkness, on a winter’s night
so cold that even the bears
had retreated to their caves,
and not a soul was stirring
abroad. The only hitch had
occurred when the long
cortege was halted for two hours, near
the back-door of the Treasury, the Mul
Dhukati.
'"TWELVE years later the writer met
1 twenty-five of the ladies whose history
is here chronicled. During the interval
the Prime Minister had died (a natural
death) in his superb palace in Allahabad.
No fewer than twenty of his wives had
availed themselves of the much-coveted
privilege of burning on his funeral pyre.
Ten had remarried.
It is seldom that a soldier’s wife can
penetrate the sanctity of Zenanas, High
Seraglios, or Harems, but this historian
had a friend, a Judge’s daughter, who
had, by good luck, been governess to the
Heir-Apparent of the King of Sikkim,
and who had thus gained a right of
entree into all such royal retreats; this
privileged one was kind enough to carry
her to a party given by the twenty-five
widows, on the birthday of the son and
heir of the late Prime
Minister of Nepal; an en-
chanting child.
An acceptance of Einstein’s
theory of Time and Space
had gone to make this party
memorable.
The violets used in decor-
ating the impressive Hall of
Obeisance had come from
Peshawar, the primroses,
from Srinagar in Kashmir.
The biscuits had come from
Trincomalee, the dates from
Basra, the prawns from Karachi. The
cakes had been flown from London, the
sweets from the Bosphorus. That all
should be assembled in one place at the
exact moment of their utmost perfection
had argued a certain amount of efficient
staff work, and also the wherewithal to
pay for such prodigality.
The local delicacies, cakes made of
almonds and honey, and served with a
Dutch liqueur of peculiar delicacy, had
their own virtues.
AT this party the guests were received
just inside the ivory doors at the top
of the wide marble staircase, the twenty-
five widows, en regie, standing in a line,
the boy in whose honor the festivity was
given introducing everyone to them.
There was great variety in the names of
the visitors, but an all-prevailing uni-
formity in those of the hostesses; all
were introduced, simply, as “My
Mother.” The child’s actual parentage
was evidently a close secret. It was plain
that his “mothers” all doted on him with
an equal affection. On the child’s part a
punctilious courtesy, an affectionate
regard bestowed on all alike, a reverence
without variegation extended to each one
of these magnificent women, made any
guess as to his own preferences impos-
sible.
The Englishwoman responsible for the
inclusion of the least of the revellers in
so distinguished a gathering (there were
present reigning Princesses from Nepal,
Sikkim, Burma and the Punjab) had im-
parted to her, on the drive there, the story
of the Prime Minister’s flight from Kuth-
mandoo. It transpired that he had
brought with him from that distant
capital the whole golden treasury of the
Kingdom of Nepal, an almost incredible
coup, considering that Ijie most valuable
gold piece—an Ashrafi —is worth merely
twenty-five shillings,
HOW was this astonishing feat accom-
plished?
History is silent.
The stream of newcomers thinned ; the
son of the twenty-five widows of Sir Sri-
Sri-Sri, having performed his
duties as host with aplomb
and vivacity, was prepared,
as it appeared, to air his
English—he was a garrulous
little boy—and he presently
engaged the two English-
women in conversation, tell-
ing them, with an ingenuous
look of pride, that he was to
go to Eton the following term,
and that his imminent de-
parture was, in reality, the
true reason for his birthday celebration.
“Would you say,” he asked, hiding a
wistful doubt of it, “that this school is a
friendly sort of place? Do you think it
is a place where a boy would feel at
home, supposing he came from so dis-
tant and so different an environment as
I do?”
To this question his guests could but
answer that they hoped it might be so,
and that it was certainly a beautiful place,
and full of interest.
“I can shoot —I have bagged my first
tiger! At tip-cat lam unbeatable! I
can ride anything! Do think my
English is colloquial enough?”
A positive affirmative reassured him.
He grew proud, holding up his magni-
ficently garnished head to say, “I am
also very rich. I have millions of gold
Ashrafi! ”
SUITABLY impressed, his companions
asked him “Where do you keep it?”
The child began laughing in the ready
Nepalese way, creasing up his slanting
eyelids, and leaning forward, buoyantly
confidential, almost into the laps of his
interlocutors.
“In the cellar!” He was convulsed
with merriment. “In the very cellars
under our feet! Oh, my father was a
clever man! He gave me lots of useful
hints, I can tell you.”
“Is your gold in sacks?”
“Oh no, no, no!” the boy rocked with
mirth. ’ “How could sacks have passed
the Customs? The gold pieces are all
sewn up into the legs of fifty pairs of
blue silk trousers , • . fifty pairs!”
VARIOUS VERSE
Country of Winter.
This time the trout are not rising at
Countegany,
Not even in the weedy reaches where the
current stops,
And when you climb over the ridge
among the white sallys
And down the fall to the Pockets, not
an insect drops,
Not a fish comes up from below, but
there are only,
Looking at themselves with a shiver as a
ripple laps.
The silver and the coppery trees of the
wild country;
And cold among granite as a fluid shape
of stone
The long pools glitter under an icy sun.
We might have seen in the dogbush this
country's portent
For far in summer when guineaflower in
the marsh,
Flying its golden suns, and lilies oh the
water
Denied that rivers are deep and rocks are
harsh
And over the ragged hills and the saplings’
torment
Soft lay the heat of the sun and bright its
torch,
Whiter than frost was the blossom in
mossy gorges;
“Snow, snow!’’ said the dogbush, “the
hills close in
And only snow will flower in the crowd-
ing stone
Yet there, shadowy and huge, lazy with
summer.
Rising for flies or jolting the lilies about,
The rainbow swam dark crimson under
the water; y
And, warm while we waded, casting our
flies for the trout,
When the air was blazing with noon and
the insects’ shimmer.
Flow sky and earth and water seemed
opening out.
All flowers and wings and fins, all sing-
ing and color!
What if we shattered that mirror, stained
it with blood —
Where the snake uncoiled there also
summer flowed.
Still in this upland country, naked in
clarity,
There are two suns that talk to each other
in flame,
But now there is nothing to soften their
pitiless colloquy,
Not a single wing in the sky ,, not a ring
on the stream.
And silver shudders the sun in the pool s
cold purity,
Silver pours down from the sky the burn-
ing beam .
And alone they commune, like gods in
splendor and cruelty :
Silent at dusk the platypus sank in the
deep
As if the river itself turned in its sleep.
Look, there were sally-gums, coming
home late I remember.
White in a grove on the slope—how black
it is now —
That stood up locked with the moon-
light like lover and lover,
Such misty radiance flooding on bole and
bough
They might have been trees of moon-
light and danced together
Across the dim paddocks where shadows
and moonrays flow.
Cold is the moon that now goes walking
on the river
And each white tree crouches on the hill
like a ghost,
Twisting away from the touch of stone
and its taste.
All things withdraw, contract, retreat to
their sources.
The snake to his hole, the wood-duck
thuds to escape;
The creatures of winter come close to the
lonely houses,
The dingo’s shadow runs with the
huddling sheep
And out with withering tea-tree and
bleaching tussocks .
When lamps are lit at the farms and log
fires leap
Redder than fire on Andy’s Flat are the
foxes ;
Winter comes down from the hills in a
freezing mist.
Whiteness is over all and all is lost.
And how with the leaping foxes I have
exulted
For all is driven, sent down in itself to
endure ;
And not to flourish in summer was this
land moulded
But deep among snow and granite to hold
its fire
Or blaze if it can before the ice has
melted;
O soon at the spawning the trout will go
mad with desire
Burning together, down in the dimness
folded;
And fold upon fold, like the country
clenching its fist,
Ridge in the river glitters to ridge in the
mist.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.
The Mailboat's Late Again.
Time is the world’s blood, and this limb
of the world
Has gone to sleep. All in a glassy calm
Sleeps the broad river, sleep the massive
hills, . , ...
While the piled clouds, slow-sailing in
their dream.
Stain the blue water white, the dark land
The old man nods in the sun-patterned
shade, .
His hands on his stick, on the bench at
the edge of the mangroves
Where crabs’ claws whisper and snicker
in the mud. .
His small rough dog basks in the dust at
his
Dropping whiskered brows on his bright
and wary look
For the kelpie dozing sleek on the store
verandah,
Where the women sit, their buzzing
tongues grown slack
For want of gossips honey, their placid
-• eyes
On the empty, shining reach. So they
have sat
For it may be years—to wait
for the mail,
The meat, the bread; and they are patient
yet
As though their flesh were hewn from the
warm stone
Of these unchanging hills, and the quiet
fl° w , . ~
In their veins were the current of the old,
deep river
Silently sliding past the wharf to sea.
Look long, my eyes, look long: the dark
will come
And you must paint on its blind wall for
me
Again this sunlit space of timelessness.
Set in its glow these little homes that he
Under the height, left stranded by a tide
That ebbed long since; and there, by the
white gate, , . . , ,
Sharp scarlet beads of brier in the long
dry grass
And the yellowing peach-leaves falling,
thin and light.
(,o prince. O lover, though your Beauty
woke,
Her eyes blue daybreak through the mists
of sleep, ,
Yet was it not her spell-hushed face that
haunted
Your heart till death ?)
Above us, up the slope,
Where the shaggy bush springs up and
the cleared land falters,
A treeful of magpies fling their gust of
Song on the drowsy air, but cannot break
The glass of our enchantment, that will
Till faint, half-felt, the mailboat’s laboring
thro b
Begins to beat through the golden autumn
Round [he green bends and rocks, louder
and nearer, . , „ ,
From the high cliffs echoing, and flood-
ins all the reaches—
The pulse of time and the worlds life
returning.
N.S.W.
NAN McDONALD


ANGUS & ROBERTSON'S
BOOK SELECTION
GREAT SHORT STORIES OE DETECTION, MYSTERY AND
HORROR. , „ . ... , ,
The third series of sixty-two world-famous stories edited by
Dorothy Sayers.
1072 pages in a special cheap edition 11/9 (post Bd.)
TRY ANYTHING TWICE, by Peter Cheyney.
A new novel by Britain’s best-selling crime writer. One of
Cheyney’s most exciting adventure-mystery plots .. 8/6 (post 4d.)
BRIGHTEY FADES THE DON, by J. H. Fingleton.
The intimate record of Sir Donald Bradman’s final and trium-
phant cricketing tour of 1948 by one who participated in it as
observer and newspaper correspondent 15/- (post 4d.)
EENA GEYA, by Marcia Davenport.
The most successful novel by the author of “Talley of Decision.”
12/6 (post 5d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LIMITED
Booksellers & Publishers,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK WILLIAM COLTMAN
late of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that
THERESA LOLA COLTMAN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 398 of 1949
on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court House King
Street Sydney by the 7th day of Sep-
tember 1949 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from Messrs.
TEAKLE ORMSBY & FRANCIS, Solicitors,
of 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.)
J. DOUGHAN,’ Acting Registrar in
Divorce. .
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN MACKENZIE late of Bendigo
Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that ISABEL
JOYCE MACKENZIE has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 4037 of 1948 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court House King Street Sydney
by the 14th day of September 1949 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from ANTHONY IRWIN ORMSBY,
Solicitor, of 3 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
in Divorce. _______
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO LINDA ELIZABETH WOOTTON late
of Hurstville. —TAKE NOTICE that
RICHARD RAWSON WOOTTON has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3144 of 1948
on the ground of desertion for three years
and upwards without just cause or excuse
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the fifth
day of September 1949 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from ERIC
SUNMAN, Solicitor, 110 Bathurst Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting
Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friend.
WHERE IS VINCENT BRENNAN?
WOULD any person knowing the present
whereabouts of VINCENT BRENNAN (a
son of James Brennan, deceased), and a
nephew of John Brennan, deceased, for-
merly of Newport, Victoria, please ask
him to communicate with JOHN GIN-
NANE, LL.B., Solicitor, of 422 CoUins
Street, Melbourne, from whom he will
learn something to his advantage.
Personal.
Would PETER BONAGE LAWLOR, last
heard of at SWAN HILL, VICTORIA, or
anyone knowing his present whereabouts,
communicate with F. G. PARKER &
ANDREW, Solicitors, 3 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.
DORIS HILDA MAY LILY DANSON (for-
merly Chapman), who was in 1927 con-
nected with Moree General Hospital, please
communicate with the undersigned. It
will be to your advantage.—COWLEY &
ALLEN, Conveyancers, 70-72 King Street,
Sydney.
* ***
Your choice I. CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is fo»
•weet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
ẃ
s;GV2I«B
3SS
W
°OTH
THE SERVICE MAN
In China.
“Ek Dum”: The position in
China is at a stage where pre-
parations are being made on all
sides for the next move.
The Communist plan seems to
be that which operated in the
early days in the Eastern coun-
tries of Europe—the creation of
a “people’s front” leading to a
“people’s mass Government,”
which can gradually bring about
conditions in which to establish
complete Communist rule, the
liquidation of large sections of
those who have trusted the Com-
munists and the institution of an
iron dictatorship.
The Communist operations in
Shanghai have covered no more
than consolidation. They took
over the huge Broadway build-
ings across the Soochow Creek
from the main area of the Bund
and turned out the foreigners
resident in it. This need dis-
turb nobody, since the area had
been of yore, before Japan took
command during the war, ad-
jacent to a zone of Japanese-
Russian occupation in which
spilt blood had long been more
common than clean water, and
anybody who lives on that side
of the Soochow is normally
ready for any eventuality.
The Communists appear likely
to halt their campaign till the
worst of the summer weather is
over, after which they may turn
southward as quickly as possible
into a region in which the pre-
parations to receive them, unless
aid is given from outside China,
may amount to nothing, except
in "Hong Kong, where a unified
command of the defence has
been established, and prepara-
tions are being made —within
very close limits in manpower
and equipment —to ward off sur-
prise.
A suggestion—in the terms in
which it was issued it can
scarcely be described as an an-
nouncement —that Chiang Kai-
shek is considering the possibility
of “returning to public life”
may mean that he expects help
from somewhere or that he now
believes that time is on his side.
He has proved himself over
nearly 30 years so close to being
indestructible that anything
which is put forward to suggest
his survival must be treated at
least with respect.
The Chinese Nationalist Gov-
ernment is still recognised by the
Powers and by U.N.0.; it still
shares the privileges of the other
“Great Powers” in Dr. Evatt’s
debating society; but the
Doctor avers that should the
Communist Government of the
North transcend civilised bounds
in its behavior as a member of
U.N.O. his show will find itself
able to deal with it “success-
fully.”
Presumably he means as suc-
cessfully as it has dealt with the
U.S.S.R., Bulgaria, Albania,
Rumania, Burma and other
lands both in and out of the
framework of the United
Nations.
The incident of the China war
which created most interest dur-
ing last week was the bomb-
ing and machine-gunning of the
Anchises, a British cargo-vessel
which was first attacked in the
Whangpoo, about seven miles
from Shanghai, by a Nationalist
Mustang.
As Mr. Mayhew, Under-
secretary for Foreign Affairs,
pointed out in the House of
Commons during the week, the
attacks were “unwarranted.”
The Nationalist Government is
“very sorry,” The incident,
however, is normal to Chinese
aerial warfare —and also to
other types of warfare in which
the Chinese indulge. To them a
target is a target if it is easy to
hit.
It is only a few years since
their bombers sailed in over the
heart of Shanghai, then in their
own occupation, and turned an
area near the old Beehive stores
into a sticky mess of blood and
rubble. It was easier and more
spectacular, apparently, to drop
bombs there than to look for a
more legitimate mark.
So long as there are Chinese
aircraft, Nationalist or Com-
munist, in the air any ship which
visits the Whangpoo does so at
its own peril unless it happens
to be bristling with anti-aircraft
guns.
"Agreement in
Europe."
“Ek Dum”: The “Big Four”
Foreign Ministers, meeting in
Paris, finished their month of
discussions by making an ar-
rangement which was embodied
in a communique jointly issued.
They failed to agree on re-
storing political and economic
unity to Germany as a whole,
but they did agree to an
arrangement under which ex-
panded trade between the zones
will be sought, the movement of
goods between East and West
areas facilitated, with attempts
to make life normal “so far as
is possible” in the city on the
Spree. The agreement signed in
New York to cover the lifting
of the blockade is to be put
into effect, everybody professes
to hope, thus opening the trans-
port and communication routes
for passengers and goods.
There were flies in the oint-
ment: (1) President Truman,
who followed the agreement by
making a statement to the effect
that the U.S.S.R. had broken
away from the terms of the Pots-
dam agreement and should re-
vert to it. (2) General Bedell
Smith, formerly General Eisen-
hower’s C.O.S. and then United
States Ambassador in Moscow,
who made a grim attack on the
ruthlessness of Soviet Union
proceedings, declaring that the
U.S.S.R. was trying to break
the patience of the democracies
but that it was not anxious for
war. (3) Mr. Louis Johnson,
United States Secretary for De-
fence, who, on the day the de-
tails of the arrangement were
issued, denounced the U.S.S.R.
as “conspiratorial and despotic,”
and declared that it was because
of Russia that the United States
needed to maintain a powerful
military machine. (4) The
Berlin railway strikers, who
flatly refused to accept any
terms under which they would
return to work, short of full
recognition of their union by
the Russians and full payment
of their wages in Western
marks.
Austria was a subject of agree-
ment as well as Germany. The
frontiers are to be re-estabished
as they were before the Ansch-
luss.
Minority rights are to be
deeded to Croats and Slovenes.
Austria is to pay Russia
£5tg.37,500,000 within six years.
Yugoslavia can seize Austrian
property within Yugoslavian
borders. Austria is to have
almost everything else in the
way of loose war booty from
German sources. Oil assets
and Danube shipping-company
properties are claimed by Russia.
All these arrangements will
operate when and if the peace
treaty is signed. The predatory,
imperialist Western Powers get
nothing.
Only “Pravda” seems to be
sure that all is now well.
Maoriland's
Compulsory Plan.
“Ek Dum”: Mr.. Peter Fraser,
Prime Minister of New Zealand,
appears to be completely un-
daunted by the considerable
“Real Nelson's blood , Admiral—and overproof at that!”
opposition he faces in his own
party to compulsory training for
military service.
He is going ahead even in the
face of the fact that his plans
have the seeds of the destruction
of the N.Z, Labor party in them.
He is likely to succeed in having
his plans carried, since in New
Zealand the Returned Soldiers’
body is a united institution,
closely-knit with the community,
and with far greater influence
than similar bodies in the Com-
monwealth.
Mr. Fraser has also the ad-
vantage that New Zealand com-
manders have a more powerful
influence than in Australia.
He is likely to reap the just
reward of his consideration of
them, and of his having treated
their rank with respect and their
services with practical grati-
tude, exhibited in the bestowal
of honors and in preference
where preference was due. His
treatment of the troops as a
whole, ranks and command in-
cluded, has tended to unite the
members of the New Zealand
forces even in dissolution as a
fighting force, and to develop in
them a feeling of trust in the
Prime Minister in matters con-
cerning the defence of the
Dominion which they do not
necessarily extend to him in
ordinary civil politics.
The open advocacy of com-
pulsory training by Sir Howard
Kippenberger, who was badly
wounded but not immobilised at
Cassino, will be an important
feature of the compulsory-train-
ing campaign.
The proposal as it stands is
both reasonable and lenient at
the present stage of history. Mr.
Fraser placed it before the
annual convention of the Re-
turned Services Association dur-
ing the week.
Although the conference
unanimously disapproved the
taking of the referendum which
has been forced on the Govem-
ment by its own followers, it
approved the details:
(1) Every year 8000 youths will be
called up for 14 weeks of com-
pulsory training. (2) These will be
posted to permanent units for a fort-
night’s annual camp, after which they
must attend unit parades and spend
seven years in the national reserve.
It looks a small obligation be-
side what is required of English
youngsters, most of whom were,
in effect, in the front-line of the
bombing-war during their ado-
lescence, It is negligible beside
the obligations of young Russian
citizens, who are virtually under
compulsory training from the
time they are seven years old
till they die, with two full years
in the conscript army, much of
it away in Asia far from home.
The moderation of the plan,
which whittles the obligation of
the trainees to a minimum, will
make it very hard for New
Zealanders to reject.
The "Super-Super-
Carrier."
“Ek Dum”: After plans had
been drawn and work on the
vessel actually commenced the
U.S. Government cancelled the
building of the super-carrier
which was to cost something
like £140,000,000—0r perhaps it
was £240,000,000, since what the
final amount would be in the
light of rising costs was any-
body’s guess.
In place of this ambitious
vessel, from which super-super-
Fortresses were to take off like
swallows, the U.S. Navy, for the
present, is to have five reason-
ably modernised heavy carriers,
of which three —Franklin D.
Roosevelt, Midway and Coral
Sea —already have been com-
pleted, while work on two more
is about to commence at a pro-
visional cost estimated at
£26,000,000 Australian.
This programme has its de-
finite advantages. A super-
carrier, whether it costs
£140,000,000 or £14,000,000, has
unfortunately the disadvantage
that it can be in only one place
at once. And, having regard to
the increasing mobility of air-
craft and the decreasing number
of places in which an aircraft-
carrier can be of the slightest
use, the reasonable policy in the
eyes of the best naval thinkers
is one of wait and see.
It was an axiom in the last war
that aircraft-carriers could do
what nothing else could do in
long-distance warfare —take a
gun-platform (which an aircraft-
carrier is, and little more, its
reconnaissance value being far
on the wane by 1942) to within
easy striking distance of a
target. But even before the war’s
end it was beginning to lose its
value as a gun-platform for
operations against land, since
far heavier aircraft and far
heavier bomb-loads could then
be carried from aerodromes over
effective distances.
Aircraft-carriers will always
be important so long as there
is sea commerce. Their role on
sea-routes will be that of the
old-time fusilier who guarded
the artillery or the baggage
train. They will always be
needed for convoy guard, for
sea-patrol of submarines, for
fleet cover, for landing protec-
tion. To some extent the light-
carrier supersedes the cruiser.
But each year there is less
and less likelihood that there will
be a place of any real service for
the super-super type of ship de-
signed as a carrier for heavy
bombers.
There were experienced senior
British naval officers who even
in the latter years of the last
war were firmly of opinion that
the carrier was an ephemeral
type which would be completely
extinct as a heavy striking
weapon within a decade. They
would have none of aircraft-
battleships as a permanent
feature of the Royal Navy.
They probably were right.


ẅ


ADDRESSERETTE
$/MPIB 70 OPERATE... Speedy, Silent and Compact
For small mailing lists—ideal for addressing envelopes
and wrappers and heading statements, time cards,
etc. Elliott Address Tabs are quickly and easily
prepared on any standard office typewriter. They are
in one piece and self indexing.
THE ELLIOTT ADDRESSERETTE
Ideal for Clubs, Lodges,
Churches, Associations, Offices
and Small Businesses. This
Addresserette was developed
to meet the demand for a
low-priced machine capable
of routine addressing and
repetition work. It saves time,
labour and the Irksome task
of hand addressing. With an
Elliott Addresserette mechani-
cal addressing Is within the
reach of even the smallest
user. Nothing like it has ever
been offered at such a popu-
lar price.
mfICDOUGfILLS
58 Clarence Street, Sydney.
BX 1151. Also In Melbourne.
Adelaide and throughout
Australia.
PTY.
LTD.
SOLE DISTRIBUTORS FOR: ELECTROPHONE (Electronic), INTER.
OFFICE AND PAGING SYSTEMS, VICTOR (BRITISH) ADDING
MACHINES, SMITH CORONA TYPEWRITERS, MARCHANT CALCULATING
MACHINES, ELLIOTT (AUSTRALIAN) ADDRESSING MACHINES.
Better for School Books
They stand the rough
and tumble. They're lighter
and easier to carry.
Ask first for
u
SCHOOL CASES
~ maof ffy
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
WHERE
CdcalatwA
MOVE MERCHANDISE
MOVES
otis Ciicalatwi
PUT MOTION INTO SALES PROMOTION
This Otis escalator installation at Myer Emporium
Ltd., Melbourne, invites customers to visit depart-
ments on upper floors—to see more and to buy more.
Properly planned escalators induce shoppers to visit
all departments . . . promote a high density ratio of
customers to merchandising area . . . make for more
store traffic, more sales—and more profits.
Your local Otis office will be glad to give you the facts
and survey conditions in your store.
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDE*
BRISBANE:
MELBOURNE
ii
SYDNEY:
»
PERTH;
Myer Emporium
CS.A.) Ltd 4
McWhirters Ltd 6
Myer Emporium Ltd. ... 12
Manton & Sons Ltd 4
Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd 10
David Jones'Ltd 6
Mark Foy’s Ltd 6
Boons Ltd 6
n
; ;
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART . NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
Commonwealth
w
of Australia
Legal Service Bureaux
Addresses throughout the Commonwealth are
4th Floor, Mercantile Mutual
Building
Xl7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone BW 1852
Saxon House
450 COLLINS ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone MU 9194
Epworth Building
PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE
Telephone Central 6417
A.N.A. House
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH
Telephones: B 6511, B 4797
Crown Solicitor’s Office
COMMONWEALTH OFFICES,
WEST BLOCK, CANBERRA
Telephone 631
T. and G. Building
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Telephone B 9X24
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
A.W.C. Building
CLEVELAND ST., TOWNSVILLE
Telephone 1972
Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney
EAST STREET, ROCKHAMPTON
Telephone 3169
Police Building
FRANKLIN WHARF, HOBART
Telephone Central 6658
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
DARWIN
Under Part II of the Re-establishment and Employment Act
1945, members and ex-members of the Forces are entitled to
preference in certain circumstances in engagement for
employment. They also have other special rights—for
example, in relation to bousing and tenancy, and moratorium
and re-eetablishment benefits.
The Commonwealth Attorney-General’s Legal Service Bureau
advises, without charge, on all legal matters affecting service-
men or their dependants. Any member or ex-member of the
Forces who believes he has not been given the treatment to
which he is entitled, under the Re-establishment and Employ-
ment Act or otherwise, is invited to place the facts of his
case before the Legal Service Bureau, either by letter or
by personal call.
H. V. EVATT,
Attorney-General of the
C ommonwealth.
UHCABLED
ADDITIONS
REBUILDING JAPAN.
The point made the other day
by Cardinal Gilroy—back in
Sydney from Japan—that the
ordinary Japanese people do not
want to migrate is supported by
a U.S. United Press Tokyo cor-
respondent ;
“Despite their aggressive
record, the Japanese are not a
migrating people. In the past 25
years only 2,400,000 of them
went to live in Korea, China,
Formosa and Manchuria, de-
spite determined Government in-
ducements. After the surrender
they all came back to Japan,
plus 500,000 more.”
Even so, necessity is the
mother of other things besides
invention, and necessity in
Nippon is well oh the road to-
wards one day becoming des-
perate. The United Press report
notes that the crowded Jap
homeland islands now have
packed into them the bursting
population of 81,000,000 per-
sons. And births last year made
a record; adding no fewer than
2,500,000 young Japs.
Meanwhile, a London “Times”
Tokyo correspondent has re-
ported that when the U.S. de-
cided to halt Jap reparations,
“A wave of optimism passed
over the country as the people
came to realise that Japan had
had her heavy industry restored
to her and been given permis-
sion to build up her great com-
mercial empire once more. With
this optimism was joined a feel-
ing of amazement that Japan
was now no longer even expected
to pay, under the interim pro-
gramme, what she was quite re-
signed to paying.”
The London “Times” man
further reported that many Japs
look upon the handing-back to
Japan of all her enormous in-
dustrial plants as being the first
step towards the “autonomous
responsibility” of which General
MacArthur had spoken. Refer-
ring to the “purges” of Jap busi-
nessmen and others that were
carried out under U.S. orders,
the same correspondent noted
Japs as recalling “the principle
enunciated by a member of the
Draper mission to Japan—
namely, that ‘reforms are incom-
patible with economic recovery,’
and confidently look forward to
the day when all the purgees are
restored to office. They are cer-
tain that that day is not far dis-
tant. Indeed, the Prime Minister,
Mr. Yoshida, is reliably re-
ported to have decided which of
Japan’s war-time business leaders
he must have freed from the
purge in order that they may
again control Japan’s economic,
destiny.”
The correspondent also quoted
Japs as emphasising that the real
importance of the U.S. decision
on reparations is that “it is one
manifestation of a policy where-
by Japan is being gradually freed
from responsibilities and re-
straints and is being led on to
the political independence which
she so ardently desires.”
For its part, the United States
(according to authoritative
sources quoted in N. Y.
“Times”) “is determined to. push
strongly ahead with plans for the
economic rehabilitation of
Japan, despite some doubts and
objections by other Allied
Powers in the Pacific,” meaning,
obviously, Australia for one.
This report quotes its authori-
ties in Washington as stating that
Japanese businessmen and the
Japanese Government already
have been given considerable
assurance that the United States
rehabilitation policy—paralleling
to some degree the Marshall
Plan in Europe—is solid and
permanent.
On the more delicate issue of
“a Japanese defence force” the
N. Y. “Times” report gives the —
perhaps reassuring informa-
tion that “what is understood to
be under consideration in Wash-
ington is pictured as offering no
threat of Japanese aggression.
Should such a group—constabu-
lary or enhanced national police
—be created it presumably
would number 125,000 to
150,000 men, without an Air
Force, Navy or heavy weapons”
—for a start, anyway.
Turning to Australian interests
on that particular issue—“the
Australians are known to fear
that, without a continued puni-
tive policy, Japan could again
become an aggressive threat in
the Pacific” —the N. Y. “Times”
report gives the following ex-
planation :
“General Eichelberger, now
an adviser to the U.S. Depart*
ment of the Army, stated in an
interview that it would be ‘in-
conceivable that the United
States would break faith with
Australia, the Philippines or
Japan itself by a withdrawal
from the western Pacific before
the job is done.’ The ‘job’ is
outlined in the Potsdam declara-
tion as the establishment of a
democratic self-supporting and
non-aggressive Japan.
“Under this construction of
United States policy, Australia
and the Philippines would enjoy
a virtual United States guarantee
that the rebuilding of Japan
would be held within bounds
sufficient to relieve the burden
on the American taxpayer, but
would not be permitted to pro-
gress so far as to constitute a
menace in Asia.
“Japan herself would be
assured that there would be no
quick reversal of the United
States programme that would
force the defeated nation to
shift for itself in face of the
spread of Communism on the
Asiatic continent and the hos-
tility of Allied nations in the
Pacific.”
Whatever may be thought of
that as having any lasting vali-
dity, these reports, and plenty
more that could be quoted, seem
to amount to advance notice of
the building-up of a strong
Japan, and a heavily overpopu-
lated Japan at that.
Why Socialism Wins.
Short short-story (non-fiction)
related by “Wall-street Jour-
nal” :
A doctor invited one of his
friends, a real-estate man, to a
public meeting on socialised
medicine. The friend said he
couldn’t make it.
“Why, aren’t you alarmed at
the threat of socialised medi-
cine?” asked the doctor. “Sure,”
said his friend, “but where were
you doctors all these years the


ŵ
real-estate men have been fight-
ing socialised housing?”
The doctor had no answer for
that.
Moral: Everybody lets every
interest-group fight its fight
alone. The doctors fight social-
ised medicine, the real-estate
men fight public housing, each
business or industry fights its
own battle against Government
encroachment. But never to-
gether.
“ ‘Divide and conquer’ is a
marvellous strategy. It swallows
its victims before they know
they’re bitten.”
Electrified Farms.
This item, read by candle-
light in one of Sydney’s daily
(or thrice daily) electricity
blackouts, is from an official
report by U.S. Rural Electri-
fication Administrator Claude
Wickard;
“The programme under
which millions of American
—Minneapolis (U.S.A.) "Tribune.”
UNCLE SAM—AS HE APPEARS
farms have received central-
station electric-power service
during the past 14 years is, to
my knowledge, unique in the
world. It demonstrates how a
Government nationally, and
people locally, can work to-
gether to promote the economic
welfare of farm people and
farm communities within the
framework of the private-
enterprise system.
“The programme is adminis-
tered by the U.S. Rural Electri-
fication Administration. The
R.E.A.’s task is to provide loans
which finance the construction
of electric facilities in farm
areas that do not have central-
station service and either have
to forgo electricity or rely on
individual home geneirating-
plants. The Rural Electrifica-
tion law provides that in mak-
ing such loans preference be
given to non-profit organisa-
tions. In practice, this means
that the loans are made to
farmer co-operatives, owned by
the farmers who, themselves,
are to use the electricity. The
loans are being made at the
low interest rate of 2 per cent,
and are repayable in 35 years.
These favorable terms make it
possible to repay the loans from
the normal rates the farmers
pay for the electric current they
use.
“In the majority of cases, the
farmers’ co-operatives buy
current from private or public
power - plants and merely use
the loans they obtain from
R.E.A. to build power-lines to
the area in which members of
the co-operatives live. How-
ever, the law permits co-opera-
tives to build their own genera-
ting - plants if current is not
available at reasonable rates.
Some 70 out of nearly 1,000
rural electrification co-opera-
tives have built their own
generating-plant-s.
“Today, more than 70 per
cent, of all American farms
have central-station electric-
power service. Only 11 per
cent, had such service when
R.E.A. was started, 14 years
ago.”
Back to the blackout!
Honey, For Bear Only.
Pending the official reckon-
ing (if there can ever be one),
N. Y. “Times” quotes as the
“best estimates” of reparations
rake-offs:
“Russia, seizing predomin-
antly agrarian areas, has col-
lected between seven and 10
billion dollars from Germany
and some three billion dollars
in Japanese assets in Manchuria,
while the Western nations, tak-
ing over the industrial centres
with their vast populations that
had to be fed, obtained only a
few hundred million dollars
from Germany and only a small
fraction of that from Japan.”
[“Billion” is, of course, used in
the U.S. meaning.]
However, as the same paper
editorially comments:
“To get even that much they
[Western nations] had to pro-
long the vast economic disrup-
tions of the war long after the
end of hostilities, with huge eco-
nomic losses to themselves,
which the United States has
sought to make good by pouring
out some 19 billion dollars in
aid and relief, including some
four billion dollars for Germany
and more than a billion dollars
for Japan.”
Television Prospects.
“In the past 12 months tele-
vision has grown faster than
any other major industry ever
to appear on the American
horizon.”
What’s more, says leading
U.S. radio authority Raymond
C. Cosgrove, in a issued
by the State Department, the
growth “has been sound and
stable and has taken place in
every phase of the business.
Television is growing much
faster than radio did in its
earliest years. Sixty-five tele-
vision stations are now operat-
ing in 32 U.S. cities, an expan-
sion of approximately 500 per
cent, over the total one year
ago.”
It is being heralded not as
an additional entertainment but
as a positive threat to both
radio and movies. Referring to
its advance during 1948, an
“Atlantic Monthly” writer
points out that in the same
period “the movies went down
not only in their balance-sheets;
they lost initiative and became
less important than radio, even
to the point of trying to buy
themselves a position in the en-
tertainment field by acquiring
one of the [radio] networks!”
The “Atlantic Monthly”
writer gave this explanation :
“The movies failed to hold their
audiences because almost their
entire product was directed at
a single group, the young and
immature.” Radio also suf- 1
fered; and “Coming into its
own after the weaknesses of
other mass media have been ex-
posed, television has the great
opportunity of becoming a
fully-integrated medium of
Commerce, communication and
diversion.” Even within a few
months “the regular television
audience will number four mil-
lion people/’ being entertained
by a million sets.
Wayne Coy, chairman of the
U-S. Federal Communications
Commission, stated recently
that “more than one-fourth of
the standard radio-stations on
the air in 1948 lost money.”
Adding, “There is grave
financial risk in starting a new
aural radio-station,” he com-
mented : “I see television as the
dominant medium of broadcast-
ing in the future. I believe it is
an irresistible force.”
A Hearst Press writer holds
that “Television soon will de-
molish the institution of Holly-
wood and reduce to puny harm-
lessness the invisible radio with
its naive theatricals and its
pundits, prophets and patrio-
teers.” He doubts very much
whether the amusement in-
dustry “can get into worse
hands” ; Hollywood will for a
while have the advantage of
color, but that, too, will go
to television before very long.
As for radio, the Hearst
writer points to fatal defects
which certainly are not peculiar
to America:
“Television is only a couple
of years old, but already it is
killing interest in radio, and no
wonder. Given the vastness of
imagination for its stage, free of
cost, radio has been miserably
paltry and self-pleased. The
comedy has been so bad that it
has become the butt of the very
comedians And
are such poor actors that
they can’t even memorise their
pieces, or don’t bother to.
Worse than that, even with the
text before them they botch
their little recitations and im-
provise stupid remarks to make
light of this incompetence. The
dramas are the mcst juvenile
stuff, with long, explanatory
asides which were used in the
earliest comic strips.”
Turning to those designated
in Australia “radio gasbags”
—who hasn’t heard them, from
the unctuous oracular tipsters to
the ponderous commentators,
political, literary and what have
you? —the Hearst mart holds
out the fond hope that televi-
sion will liquidate practically
the entire tribe of radio pun-
dits, which “strange creatures”
have thus far ‘‘thrived as disem-
bodieds oracular spirits.” Stat-
ing that he is personally ac-
quainted with most of these
pundits (of U.S. radio) the
writer declares he has “mar-
velled, rather morosely, at the
credulous avidity of the unseen
audience in repeating as sound
information motivated insinua-
tions, slanders, prophecies and
praises. They are not beautiful
men, but extremely common-
place, and when .they rasp and
sneer for television the public
surely must discover that all this
is not wisdom but soap-box.”
He may be right, though
doubts are raised by an example
or two of “representatives”
elected to Parliaments by “the
public” after close enough per-
sonal inspection.
Without Benefit of
U.N.O.
Dr, Evatt’s ballyhooing of
U.N.O. notwithstanding, the
perhaps tragic fact is that its
futility is generally recognised,
aqd separate arrangements are
made accordingly.
One such is Britain’s action
in granting self-rule to Cyre-
naica, carrying out the then
British Foreign Secretary An-
thony Eden’s 1942 pledge that
“the faithful Senussi would not
again be subject to Italian rule.”
The necessity for this separate
action has, N. Y. “Times” edi-
torially comments, “arisen out
of the inability of the United
Nations to frame a generally ac-
ceptable pattern for the former
Italian colonies. Manifestly the
situation cannot stand still in-
definitely in the Tight both of
Britain’s' pledges and of the
Senussi’s desire for self-rule.
Something had to move, and
Britain has moved in the right
direction.”
Dragnet Digest.
New World Calendar—Dr. Evatt
hasn’t mentioned one momentous
U.N.O. issue: Panama’s proposal
for a new world calendar. Yet the
proposal should have been ensured
Australian support, surely: “The
world calendar retains the present
twelve months and includes an annual
end-of-the-year international holiday.
In leap year, a second* world holi-
day is interposed between June 30
and July 1.”
* * * *
Smuggling Into Israel.— Reporting
that it “is being carried on exten-
sively with the active co-operation of
Jewish Israelis,” a London “Times”
Tel Aviv correspondent comments
that “smuggling is inevitable when a
country with what is probably the
world’s highest cost of living is bor-
dered by countries where goods can
be obtained at normal prices.” Centre
of smuggling, Nazareth!
* * * *
A Prophet Honored. —In one recent
ceremony in which Mr. Churchill
figured the remarkable feature wasn’t
that he was being honored in his own
country (with the honorary freedom
of the Royal Borough of Kensing-
ton), but that to that honor was
added honor from Germany. From
the London “Times” report: “Walnut
more than 200 years old, taken from
a tree in the vicinity of the battle-
field of Blenheim, was used in making
a replica of the captain-general’s
baton carried by John Churchill, first
Duke of Marlborough, hi which the
scroll of the freedom was enclosed.
The Mayor, Councillor J. Hi Huxley,
in making the presentation, explained
that the walnut was a gift from the
Burgomaster gnd people of Blind-
heim, in Bavaria (known two cen-
turies ago as Blenheim), out of regard
for Mr. Churchill and the people of
Britain.”
# * * *
Art Buffoons. —President of the
Royal Academy Sir Alfred Munnings,
commenting on a masterpiece by
Stanhope Forbes being stowed in the
Tate Gallery cellars while yards of
wall-space are given to Matisse:
“Forbes’s picture, because it is like
the thing, because it has atmosphere
and design and breathes life, does
not matter. It is not funny, it is not
the fashion, it is downstairs. People
do not paint like Stanhope Forbes
now. Electing an A.R.A. nowadays
is just a case of choosing the least
bad. They are all bad. Anybody s
names are being put down, and the
funnier the more likely.”
* * * *
A French Record. —What have
been quoted by London “Times
Paris correspondent as “preliminary
statistics” show the excess of births
over deaths in France last 'year as
358,000, “the highest ever, recorded
in France.” The total of births _
some 864,000—was higher than m
the previous year, and considerably
higher than in 1939. The remarkable
increase in population over the
past three years —982,000 —has been
“assisted by the many measures
taken to help mothers and the parents
of large families, but seems to be
due principally to a change of atti-
tude from that which prevailed in
the first half of this century.”
* * * *
Greek Civil War. —Official Greek
General-Staff figures for the civil
war from June, 1946, to March
this year: “Greek forces: Killed:
officers, 826, men, 10,101; wounded;
officers, 1290, men, 21,961; missing,
3756. Total, 37,934. Rebels: Killed,
found on the battlefield, 28,992;
prisoners, 13,105; surrendered, 27,931.
Total, 70,028. No figures were available
for rebel wounded carried off and cared
for in hospitals of adjoining countries.
Civilians: Executed by rebels, 3516;
killed by mines, 731. Total, 4247.
Also, 402 railway bridges and 460
road bridges have been destroyed,
11,750 houses burnt or demolished,
54 schools and 85 railway-stations
destroyed, 6982 villages looted, 31,090
head of cattle, 40,492 draught
animals and 1,253,580 sheep carried
off. Twenty-eight thousand children
were taken to neighboring countries
and 703,000 people had to leave their
homes.”
* * * *
Fewer Jobs. —Straw noted in the
U.S. wind by a Washington corres-
pondent of N. Y. “Times”: “Job
prospects for graduates [from U.S.
colleges and universities] —the largest
crop ever —are likely to be less favor-
able in many fields than in any year
since the beginning of the war.”
Another straw seems to be indicated
by the comment that engineering
graduates, for example, may find,
with engineering oversupplied, that
their training will help them to obtain
“technical-sales jobs.”
* * * *
Doubt on Uncle Sam. —Noting ‘Sthe
nervous distrust” of Uncle Sam
“which is to be found in every
friendly European capital,” a corres-
pondent of N. Y. “Herald Tribune”
gives this reading of it: “There is a
deep feeling that a country which has
swung in so short a time from
isolationism to globalism is bound at
some time to swing back at least
some part of the way.”
* *. * *
Eniwetok Atom-tests. —Blanket sec-
recy still covers the atom-tests at
Eniwetok last year, but one significant
hint has been given in an official
U.S. report—that the tests “firmly
established that a substantial gain in
energy release was obtained.” An-
other point noted is that, as a result
of improved methods, more and
better fissionable material is now
being produced by 4500 workers (in
one section, of U.S. atomic develop-
ment) than was produced in the same
time a few years ago by 35,000
workers.


&
&
m.
Guarantee/, i
rirr-ilr
Q
THE HYGEIA DiSSOLVENATOR
TVze self-contained, self-emptying Sanitary System
(Established 1927)
IMITATION IS SINCEREST FORM OF FLATTERY
Beware of imitations similar in appearance but lacking the internal patent which
makes the Hygeia rissol Venator so efficient. Intending purchasers
are invited to investigate the integrity of
the Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the
bona tides of the Hygeia Dissolvenator,
as well as the value and scope of the
Hygeia Guarantee compared with any
other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissolven-
ators sold during the past 22 years be
your guide—do not be misled by specious
Statements.
HYGEIA
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
f « ™ V '
•Established SO years.-
DISTRIBUTORS:
N£.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
QUEENSLAND; Hygeia Dissolvenators (QTand), 609 Colonial Mutual Building,
Queen St., Brisbane.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.) Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. (S.A.), Edment’s Building
Bundle St., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. Mclnerney & Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St Perth
TASMANIA: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Launceston and Hobart. ’
LEARN TO BANISH
wferiority
COMPLEX, FEAU
AND NERVOUSNESS
Our FREE Book. "WAKE UP AND LIVE"
is your introduction to a complete corres-
pondence course of psychology that will put
you on the right road to health, happiness
and success. _ IT WILL SHOW YOU
• How to Develop Nerves
of Steel.
• How to Overcome Shy-
ness and Self-conscious-
ness.
9 How to Cure Physical
Fatigue and "Brain-fag"
• How to Remedy Blush-
ing and Stammering.
• How to Develop a Mar*
vellous Memory.
• How to Get Well and
Stay Well.
• How to Change Your
Entire Life.
• How to Develop a Mag-
netic Personality and
Succeed in Your Chosen
Line.
L
A?
I
PRINTED IN FULL COLOUR
100 Beautiful Illustrations.
MOST MARVELLOUS FREE
BOOK EVER OFFERED TO
THE PUBLIC.
Fill in this Coupon Send
It Today.
UNIVERSAL OPPORTUNITY LEAGUE,
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
i enclose sd. postage. Please send me
WAKE UP AND LIVE under plain sealed
cover without cost or obligation.
NAME
(Mr., Mrs. or Miss)
ADDRESS.
SUNDRY SHOWS
Billed somewhat indulgently
as the Singing Blacksmith from
New Zealand when he made his
first appearance at Melbourne
Town Hall 10 or so years ago,
Oscar Natzka couldn’t have
made a greater sensation when
he debouched, a world-famous
basso, on the same platform the
other evening if he had brought
a bellows, a forge, an anvil and
a set of sledge-hammers with
him. His massive 6ft. 3in., his
authoritative black beard, his
piercing look and his confident
stance needed a voice built in
the same proportions to prevent
an anticlimax. He produced it.
No vocal instrument like it has
been heard in the Town Hall
since Clara Butt brought tears
of self-pity out of the organ with
her contralto or since Chaliapin
shook the rafters of the old
Auditorium, a much smaller
building.
A more human, emotional fine
may have run through Chalia-
pin’s singing, but Natzka is his
equal in intensity of dramatic
feeling and the ease and sure-
ness with which he manipulates
his musical bellow. It started
in a whisper, gradually swelled
in volume like the metaphorical
stream he was describing and
became an amazing torrent in
the “Slander Song” from Ros-
sini’s “Barber,” It was gaily
colored in “When a Maiden
Takes Your Fancy,” and it was
black as pitch in “The Spirit that
Denieth” from Boito’s “Mefis-
tofele,” with its whistling inter-
mezzo. There was a natural dig-
nify in two Beethoven numbers,
and a whole cathedral choir
couldn’t have given more depth
to “Die Ehre Gottes aus der
Natur.” “Where’er You Walk,”
one of the loveliest songs in the
English language, was sung
beautifully. A bracket of
Brahms and Schubert fieder
sounded strange coming from a
basso, like monochrome repro-
ductions of landscapes we’ve
only seen in color, but oratorio
singing reached its peak in
“Why Do the Nations.”
* * * *
Arthur Honegger, the French
composer, has not been heard
in Melbourne since Bernard
Heinze unleashed the mechanical
furies of his “Pacific 231,” which
was concerned with a locomo-
tive. He was heard again the
other evening at the Town Hall
when the same conductor intro-
duced a packed house to the
weird beauties of his symphonic
psalm “King David,” the first
performance in Australia. The
Old Testament oratorio or tone
poem was composed in two
months, and in the hands of the
Royal Melb, Philharmonics, the
Victorian Symphony Orchestra
and soloists Auriel Garratt,
soprano, Joan Jones, contralto,
and Ronald Dowd, tenor, sounded
like a continuous burst of in-
spiration. The spoken narration
was a device which required get-
ting used to, but it turned out
to be amazingly effective. It
was brilliantly interwoven with
the lovely songs of David the
Shepherd, and the Handmaiden,
the drums and tramplings of the
hosts of the Philistines and
Israelites, the Lament of Gil boa,
and the psalm of the penitent
David when the Lord smote his
first-born. The most extra-
ordinary achievement of the
evening was the Incantation of
the Witch of Endor. Choralists,
soloists and Narrator painted a
sound-picture of the grisly dame
which must have made even un-
believers shiver.
* * * *
Having made as excellent a
do of ballet as it did of opera
and enjoyed bumper houses, the
National Theatre Movement at
Melbourne Princess has turned
to drama with the somewhat con-
ventional selection of “Twelfth
Night” for its opening number.
It was admirably produced by
William P. Carr, had a brand
new musical score composed by
Dorian le Gallienne which re-
flected the period when the play
was written, its musical en-
sembles were under the skilful
supervision of Edith Harrhy, and
the whole production had a high
degree of sparkle. Some of the
poetry was lost in faulty enuncia-
tion, and Ray Lawyer’s singing
was inferior to his clowning, but
Allan Matheson, as Sir Toby
Belch, and Claude Thomas, as
Aguecheek, gave great verisimi-
litude to the celebrated drunk
scene. June Smithers was a
bright and fight Viola, and June
Brown was an engaging Maria,
but Vicki Climas was a slightly
sententious Olivia. All previous
Malvolios known to the present
commentator have been ridi-
culous exaggerations, but Hugh
Neville made the hapless steward
a thoroughly human figure.
Tlie Independent’s production
(at their North Sydney theatre)
of “The Male Animal,” by
James Thurber and Eliott
Nugent, is a noisy one, and while
the boisterous hilarity of the cast
successfully blurs out some his-
trionic shortcomings, it is also
successful in trampling on a
good deal of Thurber’s light,
fanciful humor. Still, what re-
mains is generally amusing all
the way, Jeffrey Joynton Smith
is the mild-mannered American
professor who, during a Red-
hunt by the university authori-
ties, is forbidden permission to
demonstrate the literary merit of
a letter because it was written by
an anarchist. Into the battle of
principles are drawn his wife,
an old boy-friend of hers and
sundry other mildly comic char-
acters and situations peculiar to
the American scene. Paul Mc-
Naughton, as a fellow-professor,
turns in the best stretch of act-
ing, with Shirley Falconer, as the
wife, and John Cameron, as one
of the authorities, running him
close.
* ♦ * *
Tom Garrett, whose grey
stone walls and darkly-floating
trees are decorating Sydney
Grosvenor Galleries, is a man
with two secrets: where his
scenes are to be found, and how
he paints them. Some of the
pictures are labelled as land-
scapes of Queanbeyan and the
Hawkesbury, but they all seem
to belong to a romantic fairy-
land ; and most of them are sup-
posed to be oil-paintings, but
they don’t look at all like any-
body else’s oils—they look like
the monotypes with which Tom
Garrett has made his reputation.
One misses the glow of inspired
realism and the flash of inspired
imagination; this kind of fairy-
tale painting falls short of
vision. But, taken for its own
values of fancy and decoration,
it is exceptionally attractive
work, a distinctive viewpoint dis-
tinctively expressed. “Back
Fence,” which is very different
from the usual backyard painting,
was bought for the N. S. Wales
National Gallery; and one also
remembers “Deep Creek,”
“Hillside” and the “Picnic Place”
where, apparently, a Highland-
man is crossing a creek to meet
a nymph or lady of the ’nine-
ties in a long white gown, in
the shade of rich masses of
foliage such as are rarely to be
seen this side of fairyland.
To go from Tom Garrett’s
show to George F. Lawrence’s
oils at the Macquarie Galleries
is to come back to earth with a
bump; but with a stimulating
bump and with the feeling that
the earth here, rather crudely
painted though it often is, may
be genuinely a place of vision.
George Lawrence, who gets
some of his most striking effects
from the contrast of dark-
green and thick white paint such
as Dobell used in his Wynne
Prize landscape, has a wild and
ragged power that promises
well. His danger seems to be
of slipping into the merely dingy
realism of the fashionable slum-
school ; but he seems, rather,
to be emerging from that to
an expression of genuine force.
Even the slum-scene “Nocturne”
has a touch of atmosphere and
drama about it —it looks a nice
place for being murdered with
a broken bottle and in
“Autumn Landscape” and “Gov-
ernment House, Hobart” there is
a kind of rough, wintry poetry
like Edmund Blunden’s. “Moored
Boats,” where a big red barge
keeps company with the flowing
lines of a sailing-vessel and the
delicate tracery of masts and rig-
ging, seems to indicate that
George Lawrence is not afraid
to be lyrical as well as realistic.
Both this exhibition and Tom
Garrett’s have been selling re-
markably well.
* * * *
The memorial exhibition at
the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne of the work of the late
E. Phillips Fox is the record of
the struggle of an impressionable
artist with a variety of foreign
accents. The French academy,
the English academy, French
impressionism and pointillism
are all reflected in his paintings,
but he missed post-impressionism
and surrealism, which had only
begun to come into flower in his
time. Having won a prize for
landscape painting, he left the
National Gallery school, was
flung into the Paris hurly-burly,
studied under Bougereau and
Gerome, returned to Australia,
established the first Australian
summer school of outdoor paint-
ing at Chartresville, returned to
Europe to become a regular ex-
hibitor at the Paris Salons and
the London R.A., paid another
visit to Australia, returned to
Paris to have full Salon honors
conferred upon him —he was the
first Australian to get them—
and during a final visit to his
homeland, when he painted a
large number of commissioned
portraits, died in 1915, just after
finishing the portrait of Lord
Forrest.
Periodically Fox went into the
country, and then he did his best
work, as in “St. Ives, Cornwall,”
“Twilight on the Seine” and
“Boulevard Port Royal,” which
show the influence of men like
Corot. He was obsessed with
the problem of rendering
dappled sunlight coming through
green leaves, and succeeded best
when he wasn’t painting some
huge canvas for the Salon.
“Bou Saada,” a little sketch
painted on a visit to Tangier, is
worth the lot of them put to-
gether, and another, of Mrs.
Alfred Deakin, is the best of his
portraits. He never reflected his
own country, his “Landing of
Captain Cook” being a skilful
bit of academic painting. The
same applies to his huge studies
of the social elegance of Sydney
of a bygone era.
* * * *
If the ghost of the late Barney
Hall walked into the Athenaeum
Gallery in Melbourne, where
Ernest Buckmaster is showing his
latest year’s production of por-
traits, still-life and landscape, he
would feel that at least one of
his ex-pupils has remained
faithful to the National Gallery
tradition he established and
founded on the English Slade
School. Buckmaster is a sincere
and earnest worker who has
stuck to the formula he learned
in his student days. He sees in
nature what the man in the
street sees, and reports it with
skill.
* * * *
Hollywood has discovered, in
the works of a 19th-century
Irish dramatist called Wilde, a
play with an excellent movie
plot called “Lady Windermere’s
Fan.” A set of writers, includ-
ing Dorothy Parker, have
stripped it of the author’s old-
fashioned mannerisms—its pre-
cise and brilliant writing, its
paradoxical persiflage, so out of
place in the modern world —
and they have written in scenes
in which two of the characters.
Lord Darlington (George
Sanders) and Mrs. Erlynne
(Madeleine Carroll), meeting
after all these years in bombed-
out London, comment on the
action and contribute a little low
comedy to make the old-
fashioned clothing and senti-
ments tolerable to the present
generation. The work is called
“The Fan,” and is modestly
acknowledged as being “based
on” Oscar Wilde’s play, but so
much work has been put into it
that Wilde himself would be
most unlikely to recognise it,
* * * *
The British film of “The
Guinea Pig” (Melbourne Gros-
venor) is, like “Mr. Chips,” set
in the glorious architecture of a
public school built by Henry
VIII, and that alone makes it
worth seeing. As well, it gives
a convincing picture of the sys-
tem. A tobacconist’s son, armed
with a scholarship, is the spear-
head of the attack of the new
democracy, being the first mem-
ber of the lower orders to enter
its precincts. The treatment he
gets ranges from floggings from
above to being dumped in a
dustbin by his fellow-schoolboys.
With the assistance of a kindly
undermaster, he makes good,
learns to conform, and wins a
scholarship to Cambridge. All
the characters are well acted.
*** . *
Galsworthy was obsessed with
the problem of justice and wrote
several plays about it. In
“Escape” (Melbourne Plaza), an
excellent screen version of one
of them, Rex Harrison, an ex-
Air Force pilot, whose heroism
in the war is known all over
England, knocks down a plain-
clothes policeman in Hyde Park
who is arresting a girl for
allegedly night-strolling. The
policeman’s head hits an iron
stanchion and Harrison gets
three years’ hard labor for man-
slaughter. He refuses to submit
to what he regards as an in-
justice and escapes. In the man-
hunt that follows, in which the
escapee comes in contact with
the kindly, the self-righteous, the
forgiving and the officious, Gals-
worthy illustrates every aspect of
the problem of conscience.
Finally he gives himself up to
save a clergyman from suffer-
ing the consequences of giving
him protection. There is nothing
obvious about the picture, it is
magnificently acted and the
English countryside setting is
very striking.


WOMEN'S letters
From Sydney
Once again a throb of pride in being
his subjects stirred his Australian listeners
veins as they heard the King’s voice
opening the Colonial Exhibition in
London. There is such simplicity of tone,
such sincerity in the words chosen that
the ear and the mind are held thrall.
The exhibition in Church House, West-
minster, deals with such parts of the
Empire as Cyprus, Bermuda, Singapore,
Hong Kong and intrepid Malta.
Following the King’s speech one of
the Gielguds arranged a talkie-talk
around the colonies. In Cyprus the
slogan has been “Death to the mosquito,
and now the inhabitants have swept the
malaria skeeter far, far away. Ihe tiny
sketch on the drama in China was vivid
and informative. It told how it was quite
usual for an attendant to wander across
stage with a chair or a cup of tea for
an actor, or even to rearrange a hair-do.
Sounds rather like the friendly ways of
the English stage and audience m early
Restoration days.
Sydney’s Lord Mayor O’Dea and Mrs.
O’Dea planned a grand noonday wel-
come to singer Marjorie Lawrence. But
instead of greeting Australia’s No. 1
songbird with every chandelier of the
Town Hall blazing, hosts and guests
lurked about in the gloom of reception-
rooms lit by the fitful gleam of hurricane-
lamps and the light filtering through from
the balcony-windows.
Was the party down-hearted? Not a
bit of it. In the still deeper murk of the
corridor outside the Lady Mayoress s
rooms the game was to guess who each
newcomer was by the outline, and you d
be surprised how deep an impression con-
tour evidently makes on the subcon-
scious. “That’s Mrs. So-and-so, one
girl was heard muttering. “I’ve only met
that woman in brown once, but 1 d know
those trim hips anywhere.”
Lord Mayor’s secretary Frank Crane
did . a marvellous job. One quick peei
into the oncomer’s face and he announced
the name to the civic host and hostess,
who passed it on to Miss Lawrence.
Marjorie was wrapped in snow lynx
and entirely surrounded by hurn-
cane-lamps. But she was no daughtci
of the storm. Her hat, with its Parma-
violet veiling, was perfect and the twinkle
in her eyes was star-like.
The drinks and sandwiches were served
from a buffet at the far end of the room,
and soon everybody, Miss Lawrence in-
cluded, was down here, sounding as blithe
as crickets.
Musical Sydney had turned up in force,
and pianists Eunice Gardiner, Frank
Hutchens and Gladys Hartt were noted.
Miss Elizabeth Plummer, Mrs. Hope
Gibson, Mrs. Harald Bowden, Mrs. J.
Tomlinson, Mrs. R. Instone, Mrs Ernest
Lashmar and Mrs. J. Metcalfe were
among old friends greeting the singer.
One of the guests was young singer
Samuel Glennan, who proudly collected
Marjorie’s autograph. This Bondi lad
has also put up a brave fight against
infantile paralysis. .
Mayoress Mrs. E. C. O Dca is out foi
direct action in the matter of the Lady
Mayoress’s Relief Fund. Tomorrow
afternoon a concert, arranged by Mrs
Hope Gibson, will be given to benefit
the fund The vestibule of the Town Hall
will be the setting. For this morning at 11
o’clock the Lady Mayoress has called a
meeting in her rooms, when a committee
of ladies will be formed and plans dis-
cussed for a ball to be held in September
to benefit the same cause.
A map of his travels embroidered on
silk by Captain Cook’s mother is one of
the showpieces on view at the Interna-
tional Art Treasures Exhibition. This will
be opened by the State Governor, Lieut-
General John Northcott, on August 17 in
the rooms of the Adult Deaf and Dumb
Society in Elizabeth-street. The exhibits
will be displayed in six rooms downstairs,
a hall and a long upstairs room. A
dining-room suite in Italian walnut, made
and carved in 1740, brought to Australia
by an Italian count, and later bought by
Sir Matthew Harris for 1000 guineas, will
be one of the upstairs lures. This section
will be hung with Italian paintings, and
the table will be set with rare glassware
and china from Italy. The Countess
Pietrasanta and the wife of Italy’s
Minister Del Balzo are working with
enthusiasm on this exhibit.
In glittering white satin, full and flow-
ing and starry with gold sequins, Mar-
jorie Lawrence looked a daughter of the
gods, singing to her Saturday night’s
audience in the Town Hall. Serene and
triumphant she sang. In the great
operatic arias written for the dramatic
soprano voice, or in “Waltzing Matilda,”
she was equally radiant. Her French
decoration was quickly commented on,
noted even before her jewelled coronet.
It was a grand concert for meeting
Sydney’s Who’s Who. And every
second “Who” had come prepared,
top-coated and furred to the eartips, a
rug over the arm which was later to keep
the knee-joints from slowing down com-
pletely. For there was no heat in the
Town Hall, nor would there have been
lighting but for J. and N. Tail’s rushing
an emergency plant from Melbourne. In-
cidentally, no Diogenes came, as at
previous concerts in the week, swinging
a lantern.
Fine musician and singer herself, Mrs.
A E. Grace hostessed a party. Her
almost knee-length silver-fox cape was
what the Girl in the Flat Opposite calls
“acushla” soft. Two tall good-lookers
in the audience were the wife of Ad-
miral Feakes and Mrs. Malcolm Mac-
kellar. Very attractive was Mrs. H. J.
Brady, her pillar-box red coat slimly
fitting to a snow-white empire frock.
The Red Cross’s Mrs. Persia Porter was
there, the blood of Scottish ancestry
glowing at the “Annie Laurie encoie.
. Mrs. Claude Flemming, as usual,
attracted the gaze. With her was singer
and actor Bob Chisholm, back in Aus-
tralia after more than a decade in New
York. He is doing a season of produc-
ing with the A.B.C. The Harry Twigden
couple, Mrs. Harald Bowden and the
Ernest Lashmars were other applauders.
Mrs. Ken Pointing is hon. secretary
of the radio-party drive for the Food-for-
Babies Fund. Mrs. Pointing held this
same office last year, when almost
£lBOO was raised. Thisvyear the com-
mittee, headed by Mrs. lan Jacoby, presi-
dent, hopes to harvest £5OOO. Mrs.
Pointing, pictured here by Dorothy
Welding, has been a consistent worker
for the Food-for-Babies Fund for some
years.
In September the younger committee
of the above fund is holding a story-book
ball, when it is hoped all dancers will go
as characters in nursery rhymes and
fairy-tales.
There is nothing like looking ahead.
Archdeacon Cowper in 1864 got busy
laying the foundation-stone St.
Phillip’s, on Church Hill, and last Satur-
day young descendant Rosemary Cowper
sought the blessing of St. Phillip’s on her
wedding with John Penman. Rosemary
is the eldest daughter of the Norman
Cowpers, of Wahroonga, and John is
the son of the late A. P. Penman and of
Mrs. Penman, of the same North Shore
Line suburb. Bride’s frock was of pearl-
white satin woven with a design of
lily-of-the-valley brought from Paris re-
cently by her mother. Among the hun-
dred or so wedding guests was Rosemary s
grandfather, poet Hugh McCrae.
Canada’s High Commissioner in Aus-
tralia, Mr. K. M. Greene, and his wile
are leaving Australia and their many
friends here; they sail in the Aorangi
tomorrow. This evening they will hold
a reception in the Australia Hotel, and
this afternoon Mrs. Greene is the guest-
of-honor at a party given by the Canadian
Women’s Club in the home of Canada s
Senior Trade Commissioner, C. M. Croft.
As this Letter was getting into its pink
pullover the ballroom of the Australia
was being thrown wide to a great con-
course of members of the Australian-
American Association. The party was
in honor of singer Marjorie Lawrence,
and in the spirit of the times it com-
menced early in the afternoon. It was
hoped that Marjorie’s husband, Dr. King,
would be sufficiently recovered from his
recent illness to be present. June Clyde
and the Webb Tiltons, of “Annie Get
Your Gun,” were expected guests. E. J._
Hallstrom was all set to give a talk,
illustrated by colofed sHdes, on !S» ttcml
New Guinea travels. Mrs. Florence
Taylor and Mrs. Harald Bowden were
the afternoon’s hostesses.
From Melbourne
An unheated Town Hall was no help
to pianist Helmann, who was forced to
do finger exercises between each of his
items to warm his hands. But he had a
warm and appreciative audience which
even forgot to cough as the artist made
melody for them. Beginning with Bach s
Italian Concerto, Helmann led his audi-
ence through Mozart, Chopin, Ravel,
Liszt and Rachmaninoff, and with each
composer brought them more under his
spell. Mrs. B. Hadley, upon whose grand
piano Helmann does his practice,
wore a charming aqua-blue crepe gown
with her dyed-ermine coat. Mrs. 1.
Alan McKay also chose blue for her
gown, which was beaded in diamente and
worn with a dyed-ermine coat. Mrs.
W. Ho watt chose a formal black gown
and hip-length fur coat, and Mrs. Ripon
Sargood was protected with a fur coat
and formal black gown. A hood ot
white fur finished the long black velvet
coat worn by Mrs. V* Ebbott, and tiny
blue feathers were set at each side of
the black halo hat worn by Mavis Hot-
mer with her astrakhan-trimmed black
coat. ' ■
Pianist Helmann was guest-of-honor
at the late-afternoon party given by Mrs.
B. Hadley in her Marne-street flat. Made
gay by bowls of flowers and a glowing
fire the guests, mostly of the musical
world, made the visiting artist feel at
home. Father Jones, musical director at
St. Patrick’s Cathedral, was one of a
group animatedly discussing the merits
of various composers. Ada Freeman,
who has trained more than one Aus-
tralian to gain recognition abroad, was
there, and Lindsay Biggins, another well-
known in the city’s musical world, was
with his wife, whose smart pale-yellow
jacket-suit and black lace hat made a
nice contrast for Mrs. Hadley’s black
moire taffeta ensemble. Mrs, Derek Mol-
lison wore a beige kasha frock, and her
sage-green hat was trimmed with black
cocq feathers. Mrs. Basil Hart high-
lighted her black frock with a gay striped
taffeta scarf and matched it with the
ribbons trimming her hat. Mrs. Vivian
Ebbott chose a black broadcloth tailored
suit, and her small black hat was finished
with feathers. Pastel flowers adorned the
small black hat of Mrs. Alison Syme,
who was smart in black, and Mrs.
Norman Ikins chose a parma-violet
jacket-suit. Mrs. Douglas Calder’s grey
w'ool-angora tailored frock was matched
by her small grey felt beret with its
attractive osprey finish, and Vera Howe
wore a black cocktail frock and con-
trasted it with a primrose-yellow silk net
hat with scarf finish. Mrs. Paul Fiddian
wore a green ensemble and with it a
brown hat and accessories. Mrs. Russell
Gourlay chose pastel-blue for her smart
coat.
“The Eagle Has Two Heads,” pro-
duced by Tom Rothfeld, has its premiere
at the Princess Theatre on Friday, July
8 with Elaine Foster, pictured here by
Harry Jay, in the starring role. Elaine,
a Sydney girl, graduated from the drama
school of the Independent Theatre under
Doris Fitton. Melbourne audiences liked
her portrayal of Lavinia in “Mourning
Becomes Electra.” In private life Elaine
is Mrs. Hal Blake, and has a daughter,
Sally aged two years. She is an en-
thusiastic collector of antique furniture
and old tapestries.
There’s never a dull moment when
Mrs Garnet Carroll presides over a
meeting, and no time is wasted She
headed a meeting of the Vera Scantle-
bury Brown Memorial Fund Appeal, and
it was decided to raise money by a mask-
and-domino ball, to be held in Melbourne
Town Hall. The royal-blue feathers m
Mrs. Carroll’s pretty hat nodded in swift
approval plans put forth by the com-
mittee and Mrs. Fred Dennett’s sug-
gestion that decorated cars carrying pretty
gfrls should move ffirongfi fEe city to
one of our lovely parks and mere take
part in a flower festival was welcomed.
Various firms will be asked to join in
the fun. There will be a parade ot
fashions for men and a spring-hat show
at Paterson, Laing and Bruce, of Flinders-
lane. This latter function is timed for
August 18, and Hugh Beresford and Nice
models will be paraded. The Anghss
lady was present; so was Mrs. Alec
Finlay, whose emerald-green ostrich-
feather hat was a colorful note. Mrs.
Aubrey Gibson, hon. sec. of the appeal,
was there so were Reta Findlay, Pat
Christie, the Connelly lady and Mrs.
Harold Wootton.
Some years ago a number of business-
men got together with South Melbourne
Council and formed a Community Chest.
Since 1945 the chest has raised £20,000,
which has been used for the children and
old people of South Melbourne. Latest
achievement was the recent opening or
the Montague elderly-citizens’ clubroom
at the corner of City-road and Montague-
street, the second of its kind. The first
was opened in Park-street. Members of
these clubs, all 55 or more, may buy
therein a three-course hot midday meal.
There is a roster of voluntary workers
all women —to run the canteen. Wireless,
books and indoor games keep members
happy. In addition to the two club-
rooms the chest has financed two tem-
porary play-centres for children until it
can build two kindergartens, set aside
£lOOO towards the purchase of a build-
ing for a Youth Centre, finance the home-
help auxiliary and nursing care of elderly
sick folk, provide children’s playground
equipment at Montague, Albert Park
and Middle Park, and, on the cultural
side, on Sunday, June 26, filled South
Melbourne Town Hall for a free orches-
tral concert sponsored by the South
Melbourne Council.
White duchess satin fashioned the
classical gown worn by former air-
hostess Elizabeth Fry when she was
married at St. Andrew’s Church of Eng-
land, Brighton, to Lieut. (S) Laurance
Fitzgerald Winch, R.A.N. Pearl buttons
fastened the long-sleeved bodice from
pearl-studded Peter Pan collar to waist,
while the full skirt was slightly trained
Almqnd blossom held her finger-tip veil
and formed her shower bouquet. Eliza-
beth, who is the second daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. Garnet B. Fry, of Queens-road,
Melbourne, was attended by her younger
sister Eleanor and Hazel Creaser, who
wore full-skirted gowns of white velvet
with heart-shaped necklines and cape
sleeves and caps of white velvet; their
posies were of primroses. When Eliza-
beth and her bridegroom, who is m
H.M.A.S. Australia (he is the only son
of Mr. and Mrs. P. J. F. Winch, of
Brighton), left St. Andrews after the
ceremony they passed beneath an arch
of drawn swords held by a naval guard
of honor. Lieut. Gregory Thrum,
R.A.N., was best man and Lieut, a. e.
Lovett was groomsman. The reception
was held at 9 Darling-street.
This is a city of gloom. With all the
restrictions operating we’ll soon be back
to the “good” old days and make Satur-
day night the all-important bath night.
But despite the grim outlook pretty girls
still make their debut; there were 16 of
them at the Newman Society Ball m St.
Kilda Town Hall, and all wore indi-
vidual white and carried period
posies. They made their curtsy to Pro-
fessor G. J. Thornton-Smith and bis
wife, who acted for the president of the
society, Mr. P. F. O’Collms, and his
wife who were absent through illness.
Blue and gold, the society’s colors, were
attractively arranged on the official tables.
Among the official guests were the rec-
tor of Newman College, Father Murphy,
and Ivor Greenwood, president of the
Student Rep. Council. Ticket-secretaries
were Marie Whiting and John Waldron.
Daughters of Mr. and Mrs. O’Collins,
Mrs. Jim Peters and Dympna O’Collms,
gave & dinrier-party before the ball. Mrs.
Peters wore a black velvet picture-gown
and Dympna a gold-and-white striped
organdie gown. Gold thread outlined
the square-cut neckline of the cherry-red
crepe gown worn by Mrs. Thornton-
Smith. Mesdames W. Scarfe and John
X O’Driscoll were joint hostesses at a
before - the - ball dinner - party. Mrs.
Scarfe’s bouffant gown was of black
lace; Mrs. O’Driscoll’s pastel-blue or-
gandie gown had black lace bands in
the full skirt and on the bodice. Mrs.
John Daverin wore black tulle.
Carolyn Buxton’s pale-blue, silver-
striped gown featured an off-the-shoul-
der bodice. An all-white ensemble was
the choice of Joan Devine.
Mrs. Peter Parker, who left for Eng-
land in the Abbekerk, is going to join
her husband. Wing-commander Parker
he. is doing a special course at the
R.A.F. staff college. During the eight
months she expects to be in England
Mrs. Parker’s three children will be with
their grandmother, Mrs. Eric Fowler, of
Toorak.


...
Mate quiet mU 7lee -Je/faty s-/<yyiHs
mil aT with the New MOBiLCO "M" TREE FELLER
m
4
V
These machines are in constant use in felling
and clearing in many different types of country.
Because the Mobilco is so light (it weighs only
200 lbs.) one man can push it from tree to
tree and operate it for hours on end without
undue fatigue.
The Mobilco is a rugged, shaft-driven machine
with a clutch which disengages the drive when
saw is not cutting. It has a handy indexing
device to position the saw for felling or cross
cutting. The British air-cooled engine operates
at 6 h.p. Prompt delivery. Cash or terms.
MOBILE INDUSTRIAL
EQUIPMENT pty. ltd.
252 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURHE
THE HASTINGS DEEDING GROUP
STRENGTH
FOR INVESTMENT
- < - npi ’ ■ ‘- 1
U-L-. -■ I - II ; ...
T
t
HASTINGS
DEEDING
SERVICE LTD
I
HASTINGS
□EERINQ
BUILDING LTD
I
HASTINGS
DEERING
TRADING PIY.LTD
I
LAND + BUILDINGS + TRADING
(PLUS) I (PLUS)
-. . - - .. ■ .
,= SECURITY, + PROFITS
(Above) The well-known Hastings Deer-
Ing Building, William Street, Sydney.
(At right) The modern steel-framed
building on eight acres of ground on
the Great Western Highway, Lid-
combe. 100,000 square feet of work-
ing space without a column: ameni-
ties and service for 1,000 vehicles:
already two-thirds completed and in
full-time operation.
m
HASTINGS DEERING BUILDING
William Street, Sydney. Crown Street Corner
'Phone M 0412 (25 lines)
S 70
WjM,
- • f rr'\.
m
" •■ -“■." '-". M *C
<>;' ?|* J?
<& \ U $&£&&: , .JOjr> y--
•V/: .v i
ii
, >'
i. r 1
< ’
s
m
The unshakeabie financial strength of the Hastings Deering
Group—£32o,ooo Capital has already been taken up in the
Building Company—makes it the largest and most widely
owned Company of its kind in Australia.
You can secure a regular income by applying NOW for your
New Ordinary Shares in Hastings Deering Building Ltd. while
they are still available AT PARI (Limited number only—
-70,000 available.)
POST COUPON TODAY!
The Secretary, Hastings Deering Building Ltd.,
Box 4333, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me prospectus giving full particulars of issue
of New Ordinary Shares in Hastings Deering Building Ltd.
YOUR NAME; _
YOUR ADDRESS; ;
B 266
Stores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
find irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti*
septic Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum Powder.
534
t
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Schoolgirl, Scotland, would like to
correspond with young Bulletin
readers. (Reply to Miss Margaret
Gibbs, Kingsford, Alford, Aberdeen-
shire, Scotland.)
Englishwoman would like to ex-
change letters with Bulletin readers.
(Reply to Miss Edith M. James, 26
Moorside-road, Kersal, Salford 7,
Manchester, England.)
Information Sought
Is the reaper and binder an Aus-
tralian invention?
No; the first attempts to design
reaping machines were made in
England and Scotland. The Highland
and Agricultural Society of Queens-
land in 1827 paid a premium of £50
to the Rev. Patrick Bell, of Carmilie,
for a reaper, but the man mostly
responsible for the development of
the modem reaper and binder appears
to have been McCormick, who de-
signed the machine now known as the
McCormick-Deering.
« « * *
(1) What is the basis of synthetic
rubber•? (2) How does it compare
with natural rubber?
(1) There are many recipes. Bases
are usually (a) petroleum by-products,
(6) calcium carbide, which requires
cheap electricity, and (c) alcohol.
(2) Natural rubber is superior in
processing qualities, extensibility and
elasticity, resilience and behavior at
low temperatures. Synthetics are
superior in resistance to chemical
action.
* * * *
How to obtain a glossy surface
when starching men’s collars ?
To starch collars stiffly with a
gloss, mix 2oz. starch with one pint
water overnight. When ready to iron
collars pour off water without dis-
turbing starch, add i pint fresh
water, mix well and strain through
muslin. Put one teaspoon powdered
borax in $ cup water, bring to boil
and add while boiling to the starch;
also add 10 drops pure turpentine.
Put collars through warm starch,
squeeze out, spread on clean cloth
and rub off surplus starch with a
wad of clean, damp rag. * Roll up
tightly 10 minutes, then iron.
* * * *
Sure method of catching mice?
Traps; wear greased gloves when
setting. For a few days place the
traps unset, but baited, in the run-
ways, using rancid bacon as bait.
After the bacon has been taken for
three nights bait again, but set the
traps, sprinkling with flour and plac-
ing a little oil on the catch.
* ♦ * ♦
Would the removal of the back
bulb of a cymbidium, which has
never bloomed but produces new leaf
shoots, be the reason why the plant
does not flower?
Yours may be a shy flowering
variety, or has been kept in shade.
As soon as the new shoots have roots
remove them from the back bulb and
pot up in leaf mould, tan bark,
coarse sand and a little charcoal.
Back bulb in coarse sand will prob-
ably give you a second shoot. Shelter
from wind and keep plants in sun,
except during midsummer, to pro-
mote flowering.
Brief Answers.
J. 8.: Clean up the garden and
scatter lime and tobacco-dust freely.
If not a vegetable patch the best
spray would be arsenate of lead
J. : Submit formula to Patents
Dept., 341 Pitt-street, Sydney. Messrs.
Elliott Bros., O’Connell-street, City,
will distribute reputable lines... .E.Y.:
No Test matches between South
Africa and England have been played
in England since World War 11. The
English team last season played
Tests in South Africa A.C.C.: He
never played for the Carlton club.
W.J.L.: The usual practice by
painters is to use lime water, which
is applied with a brush, allowed to
dry on the ceiling and then removed
with a stiff brush. Two or three
applications may be necessary, ac-
cording to the amount of smoke-
stains on the ceiling 8.M.5.: (1)
Contact lenses advised in special cir-
cumstances. Vision not necessarily
improved. Fitting must be exact.
Specialist will give details. Treatise
not obtainable at present. (2) Sulpha-
drugs are prescribed in treatment of
sinusitis and allied nasal infections.
Medical supervision required
K. : Taraxacum or dandelion root
is prescribed as a mild liver and
kidney tonic and has little real use
in rheumatism or arthritis. For latter,
liquid extract taraxacum is prescribed
with salicylates. It is possible to
confuse the official type with other
species (hawkbit). Purchase from
chemist H.F.P.: We do not know
of any Sydney firm which guarantees
a high rate of germination of Sturt’s
Desert Pea. It has always been a
very difficult seed to raise, but quite
a number of reliable seedsmen do
stock this line, and under normal
conditions it should give a fair per-
centage of germination K.J.G.:
Place fur downwards on a rounded
surface and tap all over with a light
stick. Then work well in the hands,
spread out, and go over the skin side
with pumice-stone or fine sandpaper
to thin the skin. Rub in neatsfoot
oil sparingly with a woollen cloth on
a stick, and work about in the hands.
Repeat until soft D.P.: These
linoleums are differently made from
the printed ones, their makers recom-
mend only washing with warm, soapy
water, light scrubbing if necessary.
Wipe up clean, and dry. If it be-
comes dingy, a little raw linseed oil
can be sparingly rubbed in and wiped
dry. Beware of kerosene or petrol.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
F. 8.: After all, rhyme or metre is
among the first things one looks for
in verse... .J.M.D.: About as in-
teresting as a mother-in-law’s kiss.
J.S.; You see the character from
too far off E.W.: You are another
of the many who need the advice:
Stick to subjects you know some-
thing about T.M.: Burglar finds
safe already burgled. You’re the
ninth this year A. 8.: Mildly
interesting paragraph spun out to a
yarn F.E.N.: A variation of the
poisoned-damper plot Bellerive:
We pawned ours many years ago:
... .C.T.P.: Gave it up after seven
pages, completely bewildered as to
which of the seven brothers was
Larry and which was Dave P. 8.:
The next person who sends us a
“Trip to the Zoo” sketch will be
thrown into the bear-pit... .E.G.H.:
A literary squib.
It hangs on a hook
Behind a door,
A swallow tail coat
Of days of yore.
A little moth eaten,
But I don’t care.
I wore it last at
A Christmas fair.
A swallow tail coat
Of years gone by.
Faded and old
And so am I.
Linked with the past
And joyous nights,
Of music song’s
And glittering lights.
It hangs on a hook
Behind a door,
A swallow tail coat
Of days of yore.


Special
GEM
2U
RAZOR
WITH
Double Life
CEM Blades
COMPLETE
3'-
WITH 2 BLADES
IN NEAT RUSTIC
CASE
Obtainable Everywhere*
,Ar ,
S °t,oO*
sS*«gs-
ITS THE WEIGHT BEHIND THE EDGE THAT
GIVES SMOOTHER, EASIER SHAVES
Regd
WATCH FOR—
“HAPPY” MANTLES
THIS ENTIRELY NEW AND PATENTED
FEATURE OF GENUINE “TILLEY” MANTLES
WILL SURPRISE AND DELIGHT YOU.
NO MORE FIDDLING
WHEN FITTING!!
SUPPLIES ARE NOW ON THE WAY TO
AUSTRALIA FROM OUR FACTORY.
ASK YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR, IF IN ANY
DIFFICULTY, WRITE TO OUR AUSTRALIAN
REPRESENTATIVES
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
T#«kLAMPI
m
4X
REGD.
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
With public transport cut to a
skeleton bus-service (no trams at
all), some racegoers must have had
the unusual experience of having to
walk home after a winning day at
Randwick on Saturday. However,
results of races suggested that‘many
of those who hoofed it may have
had to do so in any case.
Owing to electricity cuts, the photo-
finish gear was not in action, but
fortunately nmst races were won by
clearcut margins. .Quite the easiest
winner of the day was the Le Grand
Due three-year-old Meteor (N. Sell-
wood) bolting home to win the Fly-
ing by three lengths from Verbage
and Respond. Meteor is one to
watch; he showed great promise as
a two-year-old, but became broken-
winded. Connections now claim that
this trouble has been cured, and
Saturday’s win pretty fairly sup-
ported the claim.
Sign of a return to his good form
of last season was shown by
Katanga’s brother Yamboon in
finishing a good second to Regal
Fight (W. Hughes) over the 10 fur-
longs of the Belmore Handicap.
Yamboon was pretty well last into
the straight, but came home strongly,
to be beaten two lengths. A longer
journey will .better suit Yamboon,
who has twice won over 12 furlongs
at Randwick.
It would be an interesting full-turn
of the wheel of racing luck if Alan
Cooper should find himself with a
really good horse in the Talking colt
Purple Prince. Cooper once paid
19,000 guineas for Talking, sold him
for a reported 1900 guineas, and paid
800 guineas for Purple Prince as a
yearling. On Saturday the Prince
won the first Two-year-old Novice,
worth some £550. The colt won in
excellent fashion, and is being spoken
of as a Derby prospect. If Purple
Prince lacks the class to win classics
he at least has the gameness to win
his share of races.
♦ * * ♦
Next Saturday will see the run-
ning of the first legs of two major
doubles —in Brisbane the Doomben
Ten Thousand and in Melbourne
the Grand National Hurdle. Both
races seem very open.
Three-year-olds have done so
wonderfully well this season that it
is difficult to go beyond them in
seeking the Ten Thousand winner;
those with the best chances seem
to be Bernbrook and San Domenico
from Sydney, Phoibos and Ungar
from Melbourne and the Queens-
lander Lucky Ring. San Domenico
being at such a considerable disad-
vantage in the weights and Ungar
having not quite the form of the
others, Phoibos, Lucky Ring and
Bernbrook may fight it out. Of
these, Lucky Ring has the advantage
over Phoibos and Bernbrook both
in the weights and in familiarity
with local conditions; Bernbrook is
a rattling good horse with a lenient
weight, and Phoibos has exceptional
brilliance. Weighing up the pros
and cons of weight and brilliance
this page will plump for Phoibos to
win the Ten Thousand, with Lucky
Ring, Bernbrook and San Domenico
all hot on his heels.
Of the older horses in the Doom-
ben sprint, De La Salle is a cham-
pion mare well enough in with
B.lo—the best prospect outside the
youngsters. Caruso has a ton or
speed, but sometimes shows not _an
ounce of heart. One Up is _ an im-
ported horse, well-performed in Eng-
land, and has somehow crept under
the handicapper’s guard to be in
with the minimum of 7st. On a
really heavy track Ballyvista would
take a ton of beating.
* * * *
Good jumping performances by
Chatsol and Paraphrase at Moonee
Valley on Saturday and very poor
efforts by one or two others added
to the difficulties of trying to sort
out Grand National prospects. The
track at Moonee Valley was ex-
tremely heavy, and results were ex-
cellent from the bookmakers’ point
of view, with only one favorite home
in eight races.
In the Federal Hurdle Chatsol (K.
May) was making his first public ap-
pearance over the fences, though he
had been extensively schooled. Chat-
sol jumped splendidly and was
always bowling along comfortably;
five furlongs from home he was
joined in front by the grey Nizami
gelding Full Moon, and the pair
fought out the finish. With a slight
edge at the last jump, Chatsol ran
on to beat Full Moon by a length
and a half, with Doric King third.
Thorough failure in the Federal
Hurdle was the South Australian
jumper Footling, who started favorite
and finished last.
In the Commonwealth Steeple the
aged Parenthesis gelding Paraphrase
(B. R. Smith) was always going kindly
well up with the leaders; before they
had reached the half-mile mark
Paraphrase had taken charge and
raced away from the field to win by
eight lengths from Shelford, with
a further six lengths to Autocles in
third place. By Parenthesis from
Neoxena, Paraphrase comes of a
good jumping family, being a full
brother to two excellent chasers in
Parentena and Paroxena; Parentena
won the Grand National in 1942.
The Piccaninny Handicap for two-
year-olds attracted a host of accep-
tors ; the race was run in three
divisions, and even at that a couple
had to be balloted out. Distance of
the Piccaninny was six furlongs
less 20yds., and, giving a notion of
the state of the track, best time
recorded in three divisions was 1.19.
Dhoti colts accounted for two
divisions of the Piccaninny, Beau
News (J. Gilmore) downing French
Scout and Green Point in the first,
while the warm favorite Kiton (B.
Jenkins) won the third division from
Black Don and Haros Park. The
other division went to Tinkerman,
with Golden Field and St. Marita in
the places.
* * ♦ ♦
For Randwick (before accept-
ances): —
July Juvenile: Golden Tan, 1;
Purple Prince, 2 ; Niska, 3. Corin-
thian Handicap: Dusty Miller, 1;
Royal Lad, 2; Admetus, 3. Trial:
Prohibition, 1; Peter Blue, 2; Bay
Rex, 3. Three-year-old Quality:
Foxzami, 1; Sheba, 2; Grey Nurse,
3. Moore Park Handicap: Meteor,
1; Brazier, 2; Homeleigh Dick, 3.
Pacific Handicap: Vamboon, 1;
Prince Standard, 2; Golden Plumes, 3.
Maroubra Handicap: Bold Archer,
1; Tamasha, 2; Challenge, 3.
* * • ♦
Up to the time of writing fixe
Australian tennis reps, had given a
good account of themselves at
Wimbledon, Brown, Bromwich and
Sedgman having reached the final
eight in the singles. It was particu-
larly pleasing to see Geoff Brown
again displaying the form which took
him to the final a couple of years
back. On Saturday Brown played
the finest tennis of his career to beat
the American National champion R.
Gonzales. After losing the first
set 2-6, Brown won the follow-
ing sets 6-3, 6-2, 6-1. Also O
showing much-improved form
in his first Wimbledon ap-
pearance, George Worthington
reached the fourth round before being
eliminated by the American, F.
Parker. Bromwich and Sedgman had
fairly easy passages to the quarter-
finals.
* • ♦ •
“Test-ite”: The M.C.C. has an-
nounced that the Australian cricket
tour of England in 1952 has been
postponed to 1953. If England can
do no better in subsequent Tests
against New Zealand than the draw
in the first of the series at Leeds,
there will be some thinking in Aus-
tralian official circles that a wise
move would be to call off, as well,
for the time being, M.C.C.’s next
visit to this country in 1950-51. Aus-
tralians like a keen fight, but England
has not won a single Test since the
war. The fault is not all in the
battering England took in the war
and the poor rations since. They
are factors, but more men play
cricket today in England than ever
before in history. The main fault is
that professional cricket has not been
made attractive to the youngsters, so
that there is not the crop of young
players of other years. Last year 28
players of over 40 years of age took
the field against Bradman’s team —
that tells its own tale.
Those who saw him in England
will not be carried away by Trevor
Bailey’s success in New Zealand’s
first innings nor the universal hailing
by the English Press that in Bailey
they have found a new fast-bowling
Test hope. Bailey is only a shade
above medium-fast, if that, and is
slightly built, not the build at all of
a Larwood or a Lindwall. The
Australians gave him two hidings—
one at Cambridge (where he is also
a star Soccer player) and the other
in the very next match against Essex.
Bailey is of the Pollard, Bowes,
Copson, Geary type of bowler —
and none of those set the Harbor on
fire on their visits to Australia.
* * * *
Result of the third and final Rugby
Union Test against the Maoris in
Sydney left one wondering to what
"I wish Dennis Wouldn't take the game so seriously."
extent Lady Luck had favored the
visitors in the previous matches, both
played under tar from perfect con-
ditions. The ground on Saturday
was comfortably soft, the weather
was perfect and the Australians never
looked like losing. Final score was
18-3, with Brockhoff scoring two
tries and Blomley and Windon one
apiece, while Piper booted three
goals. For the Maoris W. Kenny
lobbed a penalty goal.
* * * *
When the West Australian team
ran on to M.C.G. for the game
against Victoria on Saturday it had
three victories against Vic. on its
belt. When it ran off it was one of
the most soundly-beaten eighteens
that the ground has seen: Vic.*
21.18, W.A., 8.9. Up to half-time
it was a game that kept the 60,000-odd
excited all the time, though the
ground was sticky and slow. By
dogged football and using their
weight, W.A. held Vic. to a 6.7-5. S
lead. After that Vic. settled down,
and with Coleman (Essendon) play-
ing inspired football forward, and
Healey, Hutchison and Henfrey
dominating rucks and centre, scored
7.5 to a goal. Coleman was Vic.’s
star, and the W.A. ruckman, Marsh,
was the best man on the ground.
W.A. plays N.S.W, in Sydney today,
* * * *
Attacking from end to end of every
round, Danny Hirsch (8.12) outpointed
Ray Coleman (8.13*) at Leichhardt;
Coleman, however, might have won
had he paid as much attention to
Hirsch’s face as he did to his body,
Coleman delivered many lefts down-
stairs, and he was cautioned twice—
once in each of the first two rounds—
for landing low with these port-
siders; and more than one hit Hirsch
on the trunks later. The two boys
slugged it out toe-to-toe in many
rattling rallies, but harder fighting
won Hirsch a big majority of these.


rk 17 Li Uv« -
',7 OV. CA« U »‘
The *‘f *•
Coffee f° eT ful
queT T A were becoming : « P nn mg TO sur ance
Pocks, «>er Frorn thts o & test m*
KOT
LUMLEY’S OF LLOYD’S: to assist you in
OBTAINING THE BEST POSSIBLE INSURANCE, LUMLEY’S
offer A free apvisory service. As insurance
brokers Lumley’s are in the position, not only to
give you complete advice, but also to call upon the
specialised policies of any number of Underwriting
experts, including Lloyd’s of London. Whatever
your insurance need, make sure your policy has
the best possible coverage and most reasonable
rates by consulting lumley’s free advisory service
—in all States of the Commonwealth.
EDWARD LUMLE A
& SONS PTV. LTD.
263 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY; 33 WATT ST„ NEWCASTLE.
And all other States.
o lor an
sr
Made in Australia for The General Electric Co. Ltd. of England.
S&U&i£ S&cfaie Ca
(Sole Australian Representatives of
The General Etectric Company Ltd. of England)
35 Argyle Street,
Hobart.
w
SYDNEY.. .NEWCASTLE.. .MELBOURNE., -PERTH
LAUNCESTON.. .HOBART.. .ADELAIDE.. .BRISBANE
THE WOBBLER
By
GEIFF
BINGHAM
MR. TRACEY was tensed
with excitement, an un-
usual state of emotion in
him, but today, or rather
this evening, he was going fish-
ing. In his hand a split-cane
rod, on his shoulder a haversack
hung, and in his heart immense
delight.
Never had the gum forest
seemed so cool to him. Because
it was just before dusk, he could
see the trunks of the trees, could
hear the rustle of the bush
creatures as they fled before his
approach, and could catch the
mellow gold of the last slanting
rays of the sun. Although all
this was noticed only half-
consciously, Mr. Tracey knew it
added to his deep contentment,
an anticipatory contentment, to
be sure, but one which filled his
soul with tranquillity.
Then he came to the pool.
This was like an adventure in
itself, the parting of the under-
growth, the sight of the deep
brown water, the softness of it,
and silent, more silent than the
bush with a promise in its very
quietude. It brought excitement,
too, a quick uneasy delight that
made Mr. Tracey’s hands
tremble and fumble as they un-
slung the haversack and clicked
the reel so that the line would
run smoothly.
In the tin, the coveted frogs.
Frogs, Mr. Tracey had found,
were not easily obtained. He
had spent two valuable hours
peering under overhanging ferns
and moss growth in the small
creek on his farm. He had
sought a frog as a prospector
seeks precious metal, and few he
had discovered, two to be exact,
but two, thought Mr. Tracey,
would assuredly obtain for him
.that large perch.
Perch! His mouth watered,
his heart beat more quickly.
Never, even in those dim years
of the past, years never to be
forgotten when he had played
and fought in a war, had he had
more pleasurable excitement.
T”' WO hooks, old Bob had told
1 him, one large, and the other
smaller. Whip them into the
frog. And silently, oh so
silently, Mr. Tracey, for your
perch linger in the depths of this
shallow pool. A terrible affair,
thought Mr. Tracey, digging
hooks into a’ struggling frog that
stared up at him with large
wondering eyes. A little man he
was, the frog. Ah, yes, but the
perch, the perch! Mr. Tracey
smothered his feelings and
hooked the struggling frog. It
quivered, hung limp. Mr, Tracey
felt the excitement tell on him,
but he stood and whipped his
line across the water where it
looped high for a moment be-
fore it hit the surface with a
musical plop, after which it
sank.
“Keep it coming. Keep it
coming,” old Bob had told him,
so Mr. Tracey kept it coming.
But in vain, it seemed, for
golden-pre-dusk gave way to
purple dusk, and Mr. Tracey
tugged and encouraged his line,
yet never a bite. He watched,
peered at the white underbelly
of the frog, but no fish rose to
that succulent bait, not even to
stare haughtily, or amusedly, or
with contempt; certainly not to
nibble. Perch evaded Mr.
Tracey and all his frog.
HE felt the warm night creep
round him, and then, as he
was about to curse reasonably at
his failure to have had a bite
whilst the dusk lasted, he won-
dered if he were alive, and in
this world, or indeed in another
world where a figure stood,
silently surveying the pool in
which Mr. Tracey fished.
“Never get anything that
way,” said the man softly, but
firmly, wavering a huge un-
natural head. When the figure
came closer Mr. Tracey was re-
lieved to see it was a man and
not a midsummer concoction of
his mind. In fact it was a burly
fleshy sort of individual, far
from classic, and never to be
confused with a celestial.
“Not a hope on God’s earth,”
the man said to him.
Mr. Tracey reeled in his line.
He lifted the limp frog from the
water and held it up for the
man’s inspection. Now, as the
man looked at the frog he was
able to look at the man. He
was a hairy-faced fellow with an
upright shock of hair, and Mr.
Tracey rightly assessed him as a
red-stubbled, red-haired de-
scendant of another country’s
bog-trotters. Yet, he reflected,
bog-trotters knew a thing or two,
especially when it came to the
pursuits pf poaching and fish-
ing.
“Some,” the man said in an
indifferent voice, “do get ’em
that way. I’ll admit. But they’re
lucky/’
“Oh,” said Mr, Tracey.
“Yes,” the man admitted
generously. “I’ve heard of it,
though I can’t say I’ve seen it
done, meself, and never have I
caught one that way.” He
paused for a moment, gazed
silently at the water, and added
“I have heard of perch bein’t-
caught with worms, too, and the
like, blit there again I’ve never
seen it.”
He surveyed Mr. Tracey
solemnly, and said in a deep
voice “Wobblers.”
* yj R. TRACEY was startled.
IVI The word was unintelligible
to him, but he realised it meant
something to this fellow. “Oh,”
he said uneasily.
“Wobblers,” repeated the man,
and he stood staring at the water,
as though water and he under-
stood wobblers.
“You can’t get them without,”
he said. “Although I will admit
I have heard of it.”
Mr, Tracey shook his head in
admiration. He felt small now,
infinitely small beside this giant
of a fellow, this fisherman who
gabbled about wobblers.
“What is a wobbler?” he
asked.
The man said nothing. He
continued staring into the water.
After a time he sighed, a pitying
sort of sigh, more pity for him-
self than the ignorant fellow be-
side him. An enduring sigh, too,
for it was evident he had much
to suffer, ,
“A wobbler,” he explained
gently, “is for wobbling.”
“Yes,” said Mr. Tracey.
“And when it wobbles the fish
go for it, naturally,” said the
man.
“Ah,” said Mr. Tracey, re-
lieved.
“And perch love wobblers,”
said the man delightedly.
“What’s more,” he added, “I’d
never be without one.”
“Wouldn’t you?” said Mr.
Tracey hopefully. Nevertheless,
he was cautious in hope.
“So I always carries one,” the
man told him, and he fiddled in
his pocket. '“Matter of fact,”
he confided, “it’s me last one
till 1 get a nothery.”
Mr. Tracey trembled. He
tried to peer at the small gadget,
but was unable to see it.
“Come behind the trees,” the
fisherman told him; “we’ve
made enough noise already.”
ROD and all, Mr, Tracey
followed.
“This here,” said the man
hoarsely, striking a match and
showing Mr. Tracey a piece of
carved wood, “is the wobbler.”
He waited a moment until
this important piece of infor-
mation was received. Mr.
Tracey nodded, stared eagerly.
“How does it wobble?” asked
the fisherman. “I don’t know.
But it does. It’s made that way.
Wait till we chuck it in—on the
end of your line.”
He chuckled. “Now give us
that frog you murdered. Take
him off, and those hooks. Npw
put this wobbler on; that’s
right. Now rub some blood
and guts on him from the frog,
not that it’s always necessary,
but it helps. Now there behind
the wobbler’s tail as you might
call it is the little hooks that’re
going to get Mister Blooming-
Hungry-Perch.” He chuckled
again.
Mr. Tracey was entranced.
He viewed this wooden sem-
blance of a frog, eyes painted
white, with the ecstasy of a
native viewing his tribal totem,
his life-giving, life-preserving
god. Yet, too, did doubt war
with faith.
“I could show you how it’s
done,” the man said, “but bein’
a fisherman I knows as how
you’d like to try it first. So
just whip her in.”
Mr. Tracey loved the man.
He whipped her in.
HE saw the blob of wood hit
the water and transform it-
self into a live frog. He saw,
as he tugged gently, that the frog
shot forward as though pro-
pelled by swimming legs, paused,
and again shot forward. He
saw, too, did Mr. Tracey, that
the water clove behind the frog,
spreading outwards, and then a
great fear and a terrible joy
came into his being, played
havoc with his heart, whipped
up the tempo of his blood and
made his brain sing with ex-
citement, for —by the Lord Liv-
ing Harry!—a fish had snapped,
and then with a cry away went
his line.
The fisherman watched and
applauded every move. “Good
on you!” he said warmly, and
tried hard to rein in his speech,
but it was difficult. “Good on
you, old fellow,” he said a
second time. “Just like a Tro-
jan. Show him who’s boss.
Play him. Now bring him in.”
Mr. Tracey scarcely heard the
{Continued on page 32-)


AUSTRALIA’S INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE
flii
ANNOUNCES A NEW
REGULAR AIR SERVICE TO
/ 3
KONG
HONG
S
J.ABUAN
DARWI
EY
Qpening up a new, fast
route of trade and travel, the new Q.E.A.
Service by air from Sydney to Hong Kong
—via Darwin and Labuan (North Borneo) —
links Australia with China in less than 30 hours!
Fortnightly services by comfortable Skymaster
airliners —with excellent meals, served in the air,
and first class steward service. *
FIRST DEPARTURE-—JUNE 26
Consult your travel agent or
Q<mtais Sinjuu < /H'uuay<3
(A association with British Overseas Airways Corporation*
what return
Life Assurance give
to its
ẁ
ẃ
Life Assurance guarantees every policyholder a
certain sum of money at a certain time. In
addition it declares a bonus regularly ... a
“plus” to your policy. You earn this benefit
thanks to the co-operation of Australia s three
million policyholders, to the wise investment
of your savings, and to the low management
costs in Australian Offices,
to every Australian..?
The savings of policyholders are used for the
well-being of the community, too. Their pre-
miums are invested in a wide range of nationally
Important projects... gaining financial benefits for
themselves, and better livingstandardsforallof us.
THREE MILLION POLICYHOLDERS . . . SEVEN
AND A HALF MILLION AUSTRALIANS . . .
MATERIALLY BENEFIT THROUGH
LIFE ASSURANCE
ISSUED BY THE LEADING LIFE
ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
Baeyertz and Lucifer
By RONALD McCUAIG
I WAS introduced to Mr. C,
N. Baeyertz after he had
broadcast a talk in the old
2BL studios in Bligh-street,
Sydney, around 1929.
It was put, rather fulsomely
but kindly meant, to Mr.
Baeyertz that I was a young
poet. His ageing eyes lighted
up like the eagle’s which sees
afar the strayed lamb in the
meadow.
“Ah, yes,” he said. “Of
course. You’re a poet.”
He made circling motions
with hand and forearm.
“Imagination!” Circling
motion. “Fantasy!” Circling
motion. “All that.”
One of the first things the
young poet has to learn is to
present a bland face to being
scored off; and the old gentle-
man got no change out of me.
But being a radio journalist I
saw a good deal of Mr. Baeyertz
in the next several years in
newspaper offices, broadcasting
studios and over coffee in the
underground Mockbell’s next to
the Theatre Royal. Observing
that I had read some of the
books and knew the sources of
some of the quotations with
which his generation of writers
liked to make conversations ex-
clusive to themselves and
mysterious to the common
people, he used to talk to me
as one journalist to another.
By that time his years of
power and terror as magazine
editor and critic were behind
him. His magazine, the “Triad,”
which he had started in New
Zealand and brought over to
Sydney, had been wrecked, he
once told me, on a remark that
a visiting tenor sang like a
trussed turkey.
The older musicians remem-
bered C. N. Baeyertz. “W’en ’e
bays,” the late Vern Barnett, the
organist and accompanist used
to delight in saying, “’e ’urts.”
They also had considerable
respect for him. “He knows,”
I have heard some of them say;
and that used to be the most
that a musician could say in a
critic’s favor.
But all that remained of criti-
cism for him was commissions
for adjudicating at eisteddfods.
He gave talks over the air on
German philosophers, dead
poets, the Baeyertz method of
speaking English, his reminis-
cences ; and he used to refer
mysteriously to his overseas
journalism. And he was “some-
thing to do with advertising.”
In the publicity photographs
with which he favored us at this
time his head was tilted away
from the camera and he wore a
hat, so that it is hard to remem-
ber how his hair looked. The
eyes looked at you along the
line of the face, past the mous-
tache was it demoniacally
waxed or is this merely wishful-
thinking?—and past the long,
pointed, jutting jaw. Tilting the
face was supposed to throw off
the years; and I think that to
Mr. Baeyertz it was an added
advantage that it set his face in
a superior and disdainful sniff.
Another photograph, if I re-
member rightly, showed him in
hat and overcoat with turned-up
collar, lighting a cigarette; and
here again, if the photograph
gave .the impression of a panto-
mime Satan preparing to ascend
through a trapdoor with loud
“Aha!” to drag some elocu-
tionary heroine to eternal dam-
nation, it was probably the effect
intended. His age of writers cul-
tivated the terrifying, both in
reputation and aspect, like those
curious fish and animals which
shock and mesmerise their prey.
And now that he was with-
out a paper these poses were a
double armor for him. Without
them he was as naked as a god
who has been forced to come
down (or up) and live with his
worshippers and his victims;
they stiffened him against the
common remark, for instance,
that all the success of his paper
had been due to Frank Morton,
who had the gift of being able
to write a whole issue, under
different names, from daringly
sacrilegious poem down to fluffy
feminine articles on cooking.
It was at least true that
Baeyertz was not a creative
writer. As a critic he adminis-
tered aesthetic law ; and when he
burned with a hard, gemlike
flame it was not so much be-
fore some rare and shy master-
piece of music, painting or writ-
ing as under the seat of some
unhappy practitioner. His
favorite stories were about the
times in New Zealand when he
secured third prize in a poetry
competition for one of Shak-
speare’s sonnets, and got a
columnist to print a poem of
which the first letters of each
line spelled “X (the
columnist) is an ass” ; and so
on.
There are critics who might
hesitate to judge a sonnet com-
petition if they knew someone
had entered one of Shakspeare’s
one hundred and fifty-four son-
nets ; but for C. N. Baeyertz
Art was the same thing as Know-
ledge. He believed that a critic
must always be right. He was
always right himself, and he
couldn’t see why other people
couldn’t be right, too.
He extended the changeless-
ness of his opinions to his con-
versation. I think I have heard
most of his stories at least five
times; twice over the air and
three times over coffee; the
Shakspeare sonnet, the trick
poem, the apology to the Hang-
ing Committee; the interview
with Paderewski when the lady
told Paderewski in French to
get rid of this fellow and
Baeyertz confounded her by
saying something in French ; the
speech to the Lambs Club in
New York when they voted him
the most accomplished of liars
after he had told them the truth
about Pelorus Jack; the visit to
Pierpont Morgan, senior; how
Verbrugghen, at dinner, praised
his Australian orchestra:
“But,” I said, “the string tone”
“Ah,” he said [and here Mr.
Baeyertz would do M. Verbrugghen
shrugging], “I know that the niost I
can hope for is a succes cTestime.”
In fact, until the fourth or
fifth telling, I always used to
wonder what on earth the old
boy meant by “soosess de-
starm”; then, I think, I must
have seen the phrase printed,
perhaps in a script of one of
his talks. Such was his air of
talking as one scholar and initi-
ate to another I could never
have risked his disdain by asking
him what it meant.
As I say, I have heard most
of the Baeyertz stories many
times, on and off the air, and al-
ways told with exactly the same
words and exactly the same in-
flections —as near as human
voice and memory could come
to gramophone repetition. They
were polished performances, and
probably owed a great deal to
the Baeyertz course in English-
speaking which showed you how
to open and close your mouth,
use your nasal resonance, and
push your voice up and down
the scale in emulation of a
system of musical notation of
which Mr. Baeyertz possessed
the secret.
But I used to find that at a
fourth or fifth telling the stories
grew hypnotic, and I would go
off into a kind of trance while
he was speaking. It would hardly
have worried him to notice this.
I think he was pleased enough
to have me seem to listen; his
real audience was himself.
Apart from his radio scripts I
don’t think I have read any of his
writings except an unsigned
newspaper article. But that was
a most finished and effective
piece of work.
The sprightly “Daily
Guardian” had brought the
charge against the afternoon
“Sun” that the only reading-
matter in the “Sun” was the ad-
vertising. I happened to ask Mr,
Baeyertz what he thought of this.
“It’s strange that you should
ask,” he said. “This afternoon
I was at the ‘Sun’, and Campbell
Jones came down the corridor
after me and put his hand on my
shoulder —they say he is most
dangerous when he is most
charming.”
Mr. Campbell Jones, manag-
ing-editor of the “Sun,” was
at that time Emperor of the
Sydney Press,
Kir. Baeyertz went on about
Campbell Jones:
“ ‘Baeyertz,’ he said, T want
a column on advertising as news
for tomorrow.’ So,” Mr. Baeyertz
told me, “I’m on my way to the
library to look up some
authorities.”
The next day I found the
article on the “Sun” leader-page.
It began with the general theory
that advertising was in itself
news, and then, like a steam-
hammer, it pounded out
authorities, beginning with ordi-
nary citizens, going on to
speeches in Parliament, then
quoting President Wilson and his
Majesty King George the Fifth
—by the end of the column the
(Continued on page 32.)


ẅ
For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
The strangest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
m
i.r
■ v. /■
■
n
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"Don't WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“111 Fares the Land.”
“C.S.”: Goldsmith’s words
are painfully applicable to Aus-
tralia today, where a superficial
prosperity hides the real state of
affairs. Dependent as few coun-
tries are for its national wealth
on the products of its land, this
country is not as equipped to
face a depression as it should
be, nor as its Government be-
lieves it to be because that Gov-
ernment happens to have some
millions in cash reserves put
away.
The National Bank' has
summed the position up pretty
accurately in one of its recent
monthly reports. It notes that
wool production is down,
numbers are 10 millions fewer,
the wheat acreage is no higher
than the pre-war average, there
are fewer dairy cattle, sugar
production has only just re-
covered from the bad seasons
prior to last year, meat produc-
tion is down.
Little of this is the direct
result of bad seasons; in-
deed, it is only good seasons that
have prevented the position
from being very much worse.
There are 58,000 fewer
people in the land industries
than in 1939, though the Com-
monwealth’s population has in-
creased by nearly a million. To
this decline in producers must
be added a growing shortage of
agricultural implements and
other essentials such as wire,
galvanised-iron and stock drugs.
The effects of heavy taxation
are being felt in the country ; so
are heavier transport costs,
other rising costs and all the in-
evitable backwash of the 40-
hour week.
Capital assets on farms, or-
chards and stations have fallen
into decrepitude, and, there
seems no way of repairing them
at the moment. The fact is that,
as the bank says, our financial
prosperity is not based on en-
larged production, and that is
the grave weakness. It only
needs a serious fall in wool and
wheat prices—and there are
signs that prices are at least de-
clining—for trouble to occur,
whereupon Australians will dis-
cover once again that their
national welfare rests on the
soil and nothing else,
A Sticky Position.
“Don Drone”: I am aware
of the existence of the Australian
Honey Institute (B. 15/6/’49).
But it has some dangerous weak-
nesses. For instance, finance is
to be raised by a voluntary levy.
Optimism and trust are good in
their way, but it should be
pointed out that the agricultural
history of Australia is littered
with the ruins of voluntary
schemes, especially those entail-
ing cash payments. A possible
improvement might be enrol-
ment of all apiarists in State
associations and a compulsory
. levy on a per-hive basis, this
being more certain than a pro-
duction basis.
Aim of the institute is to pub-
licise honey to increase demand.
This appears to be putting the
cart before the horse. What is
needed is a considerable im-
provement in the quality of
honey. Complaints by con-
sumers are not without ample
justification. Honey I have
seen and sampled is a disgrace
to the industry. It frequently
has little density, is
dark in color, contains
a high percentage of
foreign material and has
an unpleasant flavor.
What appears to be
necessary is a system of
honey-grading similar to
that of the United
States. There is no in-
herent property of Aus-
tralian honey which
would prevent grading.
No amount of publicity
would sell sour milk to the pub-
lic, nor will it sell low-grade
honey. High-grade honey, on
the other hand, at a reasonable
price, would sell itself.
The institute’s publicity cam-
paign is designed especially for
the home market. The London
market is declining, and we
must increase consumption on
the home market or be left with
large surpluses. But haven’t we
been losing golden opportunities
in Europe and the East? I sent
small parcels of my best honey
to Germany and had a favorable
reaction.
A well-planned programme of
quality improvement and pub-
licity combined with the pre-
sent keenness and enthusiasm
of the executive of the institute
could bring about that progress
which apiarists desire.
More Trees.
“L, de F.”: Some public
bodies are doing fine work in
afforestation, but until every
landholder does his bit we can-
not have optimum protection.
Every farm needs trees. One
acre of perpetual forest to each
100 acres is a modest target.
This amount would pull its full
weight in production from an
early age, when thinnings and
prunings would be available.
Shelter, soil-building, firewood,
sanctuary for bird-life, timber;
all these are needed.
In the U.S.A. many paper-
mills run continuously on waste
from the wood-lots of farms
mainly around 100 acres in area.
What they can do we can do.
Often trees can be grown on
land too steep, stony or other-
wise unsuited to pasture or
crop. Sometimes a corner of a
paddock can be used, needing
but one side of extra fencing.
“Is this the one ?”
Trees have a tremendous range
of adaptability. Plant what suits
your soil and locality. Your
Forestry Department will ad-
vise you.
Faults of Q2B.
“Sarina”: Who are these ex-
perts who object to my pointing
put the faults of Q2B cane (B,
1/6/’49)? When I planted setts
of well-grown Q2B (best
material available), I got a poor
strike, and had to replant a lot
of misses. There were no misses
where I finished a drill of plants
with an armful of setts cut from
Q2B first ratoons (small stuff on
poor land).
Small, but not unhealthy, setts
of first-ratoon cane *— P.O.J.
varieties, EK2B, C 0290, etc. —
often strike quicker and better
than thick setts, particularly
when the crop is on poor land
and the setts go into very rich
land. I have not seen any de-
terioration in the ratoon crops
through planting small setts of
the varieties mentioned, nor did
the Q2B mentioned fail as first
ratoons.
It has ratooned reasonably
well on this farm this year,
though it was very slow in
getting away compared with
C 0290. But on other farms it
has been given up because it
would only grow a plant crop.
It has been said that portion of
the original planting material
supplied to Plane Creek mill
farmers carried the “no-ratoons-
disease” virus, whereas portion
didn’t. So some growers can’t
get Q2B ratoons and some can.
If supposedly diseased Q2B
were got rid of and replaced im-
mediately with healthy stuff, it’s
ten to one the virus would
attack that also. For the
virus would probably be in the
soil and cane refuse; or it
might attack other canes planted
in place of Q2B.
Linseed-growing.
“C.S.”: One of the largest
linseed manufacturers says ap-
plications for seed and contracts
made by farmers for linseed-
growing have increased by 62
p.c. over last year’s plantings.
Actual areas under linseed for
the previous two seasons were
1800 acres and 18,500 acres
respectively, whilst the area
booked to date for the forth-
coming season totals 30,000
acres. With a good season the
area under crop should yield
7500 tons, or about 15 p.c. of
Australia’s requirements.
Greatest increase has occurred
on the Darling Downs, which
carries about one-third of the
total area. Seed grown in
southern States has shown a
yield of oil slightly above aver-
age, but yields in all States have
been up to the standard ex-
pected. With experience yields
per acre are increasing and im-
proved methods of controlling
insect pests are available.
Pasture Tests.
“Rooster”; In the Lilydale-
Yarra Glen district, 25 miles
e.-n.-e. of Melbourne, they
proved a marked success. The
methods are worth studying be-
cause, although this district en-
joys a mean annual rainfall of
35in., the spring was extremely
dry. Moreover, entries were
prepared on unimproved high or
rising lands which previously
had carried the poorest of native
grasses.
The competitors clearly
showed that superphosphate and
clover were responsible for the
prolific growth of the new pas-
tures. Perennial-rye grass and
white or subterranean clover
were predominant. The winning
entry was top-dressed with lime,
but local farmers are not im-
pressed with the response from
it, most of them using super,
liberally and at regular inter-
vals. The result was that growth,
capable of yielding up to three
tons of dried hay per acre, ex-
ceeded general estimates. The
point was raised, however, that
at the time of judging growth
may have gone too rank for
grazing purposes, but this would
naturally be a question of
management. Fortunately, the
weather proved ideal for har-
vesting, much of the heavy
growth being cut and stacked in
good condition. As a general
rule new pastures should be
grazed down so that an average
yield of two tons of dried hay
per acre is obtained.
It was also stated that no
potash had been used. Ob-
viously there was little or no de-
ficiency. The continued growing
and cutting of grass-hay would,
in time, bring about potash de-
ficiency, so that it would pay to
use a small quantity of it in
every top-dressing. The quantity
of fertiliser used by competitors
was about a bag per acre per
year. These experiments have
transformed this district into
one of the richest pasture areas
in Victoria.
Tar in Wool.
“Myrrhee”; Buyers frown on
the tar brand or any brand that
will run in the scour. They pre-
fer a brand that’s non-soluble—
one that can be cut out before
the fleece goes into the scour or
removed during carding and
combing. Tar, pitch and paints
are unsatisfactory in that they
run in the scour" and stain the
whole fleece. A lot of sheep-
owners, by persisting in the use
of soluble branding fluids, re-
duce the value of their whole
clip. A good branding fluid
that dries quickly and forms a
hard, insoluble mark unaffected
by hot scouring solutions costs
about one-fifth of a penny per
sheep and is readily applied.
For Pig Mange.
“Agamemnon”: Alt h ough
lime sulphur (B. 2/3/’49) is
effective in controlling mange in
pigs, it requires repeated treat-
ment and is sometimes ineffec-
tive. Treatment with gammex-
ane or chlordane is 100 p.c.
effective. Pigs affected with
mange do not fatten readily, be-
come stunted and uneconomic.
If the skin is seriously affected
they will be slaughtered only for
small goods.
Recent American experiments
have shown that one thorough
treatment with chlordane will
effect a complete cure. Three-
quarters of a pint of chlordane
is mixed with 50 gallons of
water and applied with a knap-
sack spray. Where thick crusts
and scabs are present scrub the
pigs first with a stiff brush and
weak alkali. Each pig should
receive one to two quarts of
solution,
Gammexane solution is used
in a similar manner, but should
be used at a concentration of
2.5 p.c. of the commercial pre-
paration. After treatment all
itching is allayed in a few hours
and condition improves rapidly.
In two weeks the scaliness has
disappeared and the skin is


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO THELMA MAY SHIPTON late of Can-
terbury.—TAKE NOTICE that HAROLD
WILTON SHIPTON has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 238 of 1949 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 29th
August 1949 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from HALSE
MILLETT WALLMAN & SEE, Solicitors,
18 Martin Place, Sydney.—(l.s.) J.
DOUQHAN, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friend.
ERIC UNMAOK, of Brisbane, is
Australia early in 1950. Old
please write me at 635 Victoria
San Francisco, California, U.S.A.
visiting
friends
Street,
*«#»
lb.
OW / i
X
• Behind every bale of your
wool lie years of courageous
planning and effort.
A.M.L.&F. realise this. That s
why they give your hard-
earned wool the same
personal care and supervision
as you would yourself, and
that’s why you can be sure of
the best possible price when
you send your clip to
A.MX.&F.
86 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863. azs.ai
AMLF
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AX MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches—N.B.W.; Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’lds Townsville,
Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi.
McPhle & Co Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oake.v, Dalby and Plttsworth.
1
JACK
ARTS
Circular Chart* for ail type*
•f Recording Instruments
•or wif clmi of Machinery
•» Equipment
METER CHARTS • Specialty
IcntH) Ui «w Qmumi
O'SULimNffeLu
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
w
MEMORISE
WITH EASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, 3.E. 8, Vic.
Safe Grain Storage
WITH
ALL STEEL
SILOS
{or
IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY
Be sure of adequate grain supplies
for stud and general stock feed-
ing during drought shortages . . .
use Goldsbrough Grain Silos.
Being all-steel, they provide pro-
tection against all weathers and
are vermin-proof. The illustration
shows an actual installation of two
500-bag Goldsbrough Silos.
Write for full particulars to your
nearest Goldsbrough Mort Branch
or Agent.
500 bag capacity Ct 500
18-gauge steel, £226/5/*
1000 bag capacity (3000
18-gauge steel, £405.
cot provided.
bushels) height 18 ft., diameter 11
In 16-gauge steel, £251/5/-
bushets) height 21 ft. 4 in., diameter
Alt prices ex factory Adelaide.
ft. 6 in. Price fn
16 ft. 8 in. Price in
Mast and block
AND COMPANY LIMITED
(INC. IN VICTORIA!
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
SPECIFY "IYSASHT'S" WIRE, WIR
E NETTING. ETC.
healthy, with new hair growing.
One treatment is sufficient, as the
residual effect lasts for weeks.
The Brood-sow's Value—
in Figures.
“G. Runter”: The pig-raiser
has not got for his breeding
stock a numerical measure of
productivity such as the dairy-
farmer and poultry-keeper can
use, but a figure is available and
easily obtained that is of great
value. This is the total weight
in pounds of a sow’s second litter
at eight weeks old. If restricted
to sows whose progeny are of
suitable conformation this figure
gives a true comparison of their
worth as breeders. In one series
of trials in America pigs weigh-
ing 301 b. and over when weaned
gained 1.51 b. live weight per day
(average) for the next four
months compared with a corres-
ponding gain of 1.41 b. by
weaners under 301 b.
Winter-fee^.
“Bill C.”: Italian rye is a
good grass for dairyfarms in the
cooler parts of Queensland.
Sown in May or June, it makes
rapid growth through the cooler
months and yields good grazing,
particularly when some perennial
red-clover seed is broadcast with
it. The soil should be rich and
fairly moist.
If the ground has been well
broken up the resultant growth
should be thick, upright and
capable of standing up to heavy
grazing. Any surplus grass may
be mown and made into mea-
dow-hay.
Italian rye usually dies down
in the warm weather, but it is
such a good winter standby that
nobody should mind having to
make a fresh sowing each year.
Carinas Into Comsacks?
“He-Ne”; A Sydney man, E.
Bedford, believes he can make
comsacks from the fibre in
ordinary garden cannas. If this
is feasible a new industry will
be created, and millions of
pounds that now go annually to
India for jute will be retained
here. Australia imports many
thousands of tons of jute from
India each year at a price of
about £l5O a ton. Bedford says
his canna fibre can be produced
for around £4O a ton. Total cost
to Australia for twine, bags,
woolpacks,, etc., is about
£15,000,000 a year. Long fibres
for the production of bags and
woolpacks have always been
grown in cheap-labor countries
because no fibre-producing plant
has been discovered which could
be mechanically harvested and
easily treated. Bedford says the
canna is ideal for fibre because
it matures in three months, gives
up to two tons of fibre per acre,
can be sown and harvested
mechanically and can be har-
vested all the year round.
Further, being a perennial, it
needs replanting only every five
years, is vigorous and hardy and
the fibre is easily extracted. A
nursery of 20 acres to produce
seed has been started at Penrith,
and the tensile strength of the
canna fibre is now being tested
by the Flax Research Labora-
tories, Melbourne.
Home-made Bolts.
“Plane C.”: Anyone having a
set of stocks and dies can easily
provide a special bolt, not
obtainable from the shops, when
required. Two bolts, for
instance, may be made from a
9in. bolt. Grip the bolt in a
vice and cut it in half with the
hacksaw. One length will have
no head. Cut a good thread on
the upper end, and screw on a
nut. Heat in the fire, and
hammer the nut to the right
shape. I’ve seen plough-bolts
made in this way that looked
just like the bought article. To
complete the second bolt, it is
only necessary to cut another
thread and screw on another
nut.
Picking the Best Bird.
“Girrawheen”: A strong chick
passes through the four chick
moults without trouble, whereas
a weakling holds the baby-down
for a long time. It pays to dis-
card the latter, as they are not
profitable, and cost as much to
feed as the strong ones. A
pullet of any breed that cannot
grow feathers will not make a
vigorous fowl. When taken
from the incubator on the 22nd
day fast-feathering chicks will
possess main - wing feathers
varying from iin. to £in. in
length. Another method of
culling the strong from the weak
is to study the outer-wing-joint
feathers and keep those with
the feathers alternatively long
and short, as the slow-feather-
ing chicks possess main-wing
feathers usually shorter than
iin. and uniform in size.
Hints for the Farm.
“C.A.A.”: A useful guard to
protect young trees against rab-
bits can be made by wiring to-
gether pieces of old case-timber.
Place this around the tree with
two sharpened stakes driven
into the ground to hold it in
position. Old wire-netting is
useful also for the purpose,
“Rooster”: To prevent ring-
worm in calves, keep them iso-
lated from infected animals.
The infection spreads rapidly.
Disinfect the pens with lime-
wash containing carbolic-acid, \
pint to the gallon. Apply it hot.
Once the lesions have formed it’s
necessary to clip the hair around
them, soften them with a little
olive-oil, and remove the scaly
crust. Dress with a weak tinc-
ture of iodine (2£ per cent.).
Burn all debris and disinfect
your hands and arms when
finished.
“Dim”: When rearing pet
lambs on the bottle add a pinch
of salt to the warmed milk, and
the lambs will not scour. The
same applies to calves. Also mix
and add a little linseed-meal to
the separator milk, to take the
place of full milk. Always re-
move froth from milk before
feeding, as the froth causes
wind, often resulting in death,
“Sarina”: Some modern
snakebite kits contain a suction
device which is to be used to
draw out some of the venom
after a snakebite has been liga-
tured and cut. A wide-mouthed
jar is a great drawing agent,
heated and applied mouth to the
incision. It’s safer than trying to
suck the poison out since cracked
lips, pimples or sore throats may
collect the venom.
“Wilco”: Except for melons,
lima beans and a few other
summer crops, market-gardening
generally stops in Central
Queensland, save in places where
there’s an assured water-supply,
in August. The weather by then
is too dry and getting warm.
That’s the time to plough up the
garden, lime the rough soil,
harrow it smooth and sow a
green-manure crop. Next year
don’t plant tomatoes or spuds
where you had them this year.
“Cloudy”: The Californian
thornless blackberry is far re-
moved from its wild, obnoxious
forebear. It is well-suited for the
home garden; and may be
planted in the shrubbery, be-
tween fruit-trees, on the shady
side of a fence, or even on the
sunny side if well watered. The
fruit is twice as large as its wild
relative, the plant bears better,
and being thornless offers no
problems to the picker.


IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:-~~-
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:-~
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
VauxhalPs Outstanding Value
.iuWJ
T'm
x
wp-
makes waiting profitable
Waiting for your new car can pay big dividends.
The wait for Vauxhall may be a little longer than
for less popular makes, but the handsome reward
will be worth it —in appearance, price, perform-
ance, operating costs, service—real, material
advantages which will please and profit you for
years to come.
This year, two brilliant newcomers carry the
Vauxhall name —the 6 cylinder, 18 h.p. Velox,
and the 4 cylinder, 12 h.p. Wyvern. Get your
dealer to let you drive either of them. The
experience of controlled speed, flexible engine,
perfect springing and smooth, positive braking
will show you what great cars they are—designed,
and proved ideal, for severe conditions like
Australia’s. For the last fourteen years Vauxhall
has outsold all other British cars in Australia—
because Vauxhall designers understand Australian
needs.
Vauxhall VELOX is England’s answer to Aus-
tralia’s greatest travel need —truly a top-gear car,
cruises at 60 m.p.h., has a top speed of 75 m.p.h.
Its 18 h.p., 6-cyl. engine, driven in an average way,
gives 28 miles per gallon at 30 m.p.h.
The new, restyled 12 h.p., 4-cyl. Vauxhall
WYVERN purrs along at 50 m.p.h.—has a top
speed of 60-65 m.p.h.—averages 35 m.p.g. at 30
m.p.h. with normal driving.
Both Velox and Wyvern are available as English-
built Saloons . . . Australian-built Turret top
Saloons ... or Caleche Tourers.
See your Vauxhall Dealer. He will give you
details of the G.M.A.C. Confidential Payment
Plan and the made-for- Vauxhall *Air Chief ’ Car
Radio.
a ne
JBhpVel°*
J2hpWy«ern
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE . SYD.NEY . MELBOURNE* . ADELAIDE . PERTH
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia
VS-24
HOW to SAVE PETROL
AND IMPROVE ENGINE PERFORMANCE
To effect worth-while petrol savings with new power to climb steep
hills in top gear; new flexibility to throttle down in traffic without
“clutch-riding” ; new speed of which you never dreamed your car
capable; new efficiency to give “smooth-as-silk” operation and com-
plete combustion to prevent engine wear, ordinarily caused by hard
carbon, you need a British Electro-energiser! An ingenious invention
which is saving money and trouble for many motorists. Can be
speedily installed WITHOUT TOOLS, and fits all internal-combustion
engines except Ford V 8 and those with magneto ignition.
The Australian Controllers have set aside five hundred
for free distribution on one, condition, the scheme being
to further popularise this valuable motor aid.
If you wish to save petrol and improve engine performance, tear out
this announcement, attach name and address, and post today. This
will cost you nothing, and place you under no obligation.
H. W. ROBINSON
Specialties Company
1376 PACIFIC HIGHWAY,
TUBBAMUBBA, N.B.W.
ẅ
words. He saw the fish, a silver
streak along the surface of the
dark water, felt it tug, sensed
the very life of it struggling with
him, calling out his humanity,
his divinity, testing it, yet at the
same time teasing the inner
being of the farmer on the bank.
But Mr. Tracey won. He saw
it come towards him with the
inevitability of night covering
day, surely as darkness explodes
into brilliant light, as now,
within the soul of Mr. Tracey,
a light flashed.
“Up the bank! Up the
bank!” the stranger warned un-
necessarily. Mr. Tracey was
taking no risks. He was down
beside that fish, hugging, almost
weeping tears over it, talking as
a child would in delighted
prattle.
Nor did the stranger laugh.
“Done like a Trojan,” he said,
and then as Mr. Tracey, inar-
ticulate, did not respond, kept
repeating the phrase more to
himself than the other fisher-
man, as though there were, in-
deed, two of himself, one which
had to be convinced by repeti-
tion of the observation.
“I got it,” said Mr. Tracey
joyfully. “I got it!”
“You got it all right,” said
the man. “You got it with the
wobbler.”
“That’s right,” said Mr.
Tracey. “With the wobbler.” He
stared, almost uncomprehend-
ingly, at the fisherman.
REALITY began to assert its
self.
“Where,” he asked in a
strange voice, “did you come
from?”
“Heaven,” said the man.
“Where do you think?”
Mr. Tracey did not know
what to think, and the first part
of the man’s answer he did not
think too preposterous.
“As a matter of fact,” the
man said, “I came here because
they told me you was fishing.”
“Did they?” said Mr. Tracey.
“And what did you come all
this way for, may I ask?”
“As a matter of fact,” the
man said again, “I’m a fox-
catcher.”
“A fox-catcher!” said the be-
wildered Mr. Tracey. He was
still grasping his squirming fish.
“I catch foxes,” the man
said, “with me hounds. Every
fowl-owner likes to see me, see,
because I cleans the district out
of foxes.”
“Excellent,” said Mr. Tracey.
“Then I must show you just
where the foxes are on my
farm.”
“Good,” the man agreed.
“Many there are who can’t
show me just where they
are, but the dogs know. Oh,
yes, the hounds find ’em. But,
of course, as you know I don’t
do it for love,” ,
“No,” said Mr. Tracey,
staring at the stranger. “Of
course not. It is, hah, for the
skins, eh?”
“There ain’t no skins when
those hounds finish with a fox,”
said the fox-catcher juicily. “No,
mister, I does it for chooks, and
the better the chooks the more
the foxes.
“I hear,” he went on, “as how
you have the very best chooks
in the district, and that’s why
I went to the trouble of walk-
ing all this distance. Not, mind
you, that I didn’t think about
the fishing—l did.”
‘Then you shall share this
fish with me and any others we
catch,” insisted Mr. Tracey.
T” HE stranger regarded him
* silently, and Mr. Tracey be-
came extremely uncomfortable.
What possessed the fellow, any-
way?
“Mister,” said the fox-
catcher, “I’ll catch your foxes
for you, I will.”
“And I’ll give you some of
the finest fowls you’ve seen in
many a day,” cried Mr. Tracey,
his heart filled with joy, his
whole being flooded with that
delight that visits men but sel-
dom. “You have done me a
great service,” he said soberly.
“As to your chooks,” said the
man, “you can keep ’em. No,”
he cried as Mr. Tracey began
protesting, “I mean it. I’ll get
y’ foxes, but I won’t charge.
And for why? Because you
and me’s fishing pals. D’you
know what that means?”
Mr. Tracey regarded him
steadily. “I think I do,” he
said quietly.
“Yes,” said the fox-catcher.
“If there were more fishin’
there’d be less wars and strife.
Two men fishin’ get more fun
and that than two men doin’
anything else. And so, mister.
I’ll not bother you for them
chooks since you offered me
some of that perch.”
“Then we’ll get a few more,
eh?” said Mr. Tracey eagerly.
“They’ll keep,” said the fox-
catcher, “He’s big enough for a
feed for us both, and the
others’ll be there when we want
’em next time. He’ll make a
great supper, and sweet as you
like.”
The thought was extremely
pleasing to Mr. Tracey, and he
said “We’ll go right now. We
can fry this fellow in batter and
then crack a bottle to celebrate.”
“Right down my alley!” cried
the fisherman, and the silence
fell, for Mr. Tracey was extract-
ing the wobbler’s hooks from
the fish’s mouth. He separated
the wobbler from the line and
in sorrowful silence passed it
across to the fox-catcher.
“Yours,” he said in a strained
voice.
THE silence fell again whilst
the fox-catcher regarded the
miraculous piece of wood. Then,
unbelievable, but true, the harsh
hoarse voice of the fisherman.
“Keep it, mate. I’ll get another.”
“No,” said Mr. Tracey, feel-
ing pitifully grave. “It’s your
last.”
“There are other wobblers in
the world,” said the stranger
philosophically, “and if anyone
can get ’em, then I can. But,”
he concluded triumphantly,
“there ain’t another fish like
that, and there’s never been
another night like this, if you
come to look at it, so what are
we waiting for?”
And Mr. Tracey, as he held
his fish up and regarded it, felt
his entire being reflooded with
joy and echoed the fox-catcher’s
question, after which he fol-
lowed his new boon companion
through the trees.
reader was left with the impres-
sion that to censure a newspaper
for being full of advertising was
not only treason, but a wilful in-
sult to a friendly power, and
even lese-majeste.
I congratulated Mr. Baeyertz
on his performance, and he
seemed not a little pleased with
it himself, confiding to me that
on his advertising rounds the day
after the article appeared he had
met the “Guardian” man at one
of Sydney’s largest stores, and
that gentleman, who had before
been taking him rather lightly,
had retired into an unwontedly
sullen shell.
But even such triumphs were
not, I think, any compensation
to him for the shifts and strata-
gems of the commercial literary
life. One day, when I had been
up to the 2UW broadcasting-
station offices, I found myself
waiting with Mr. Baeyertz for
the lift to go down in the State
Shopping Block building. As the
lift-door opened I made some
foolish and forced joke about
going down in life, and quoted
Slessor’s line;
How should we find, like Lucifer,
an abyss?
We turned in the lift full of
women customers of the dress-
shops and beauty-parlors of that
big building and faced the lift-
door again, and then Mr.
Baeyertz lookup my remarks in a
hollow and reverberating voice;
“Fallen! Fallen! No one
will ever know how low I have
fallen!”
How much of it was amateur
dramatics, and how much was a
cry of the artistic heart, I should
not care to say. At first I thought
he was joking, and I was about to
say something; then looked athim,
looked away and said nothing.
Years later I read how the
English film-director, Alfred
Efitchcock, had simulated a
murderer in a crowded New
York lift to see what the crowd
would do. Mr. Baeyertz
achieved in that Sydney lift a
result which must have been very
similar. The lift seemed to
freeze. Everyone looked straight
ahead; and when the door
opened on the ground floor they
all scurried out as though Lucifer
had indeed been among them.


m
m
mm &
m
NO DOUBT ABOUT IT
THE TEMPERATURE’S DROPPED!
YOUR SISTER'S GONE VERY COOL
ON ME BOB 1 .-WHAT'S HER
' REASON ?
WELL. IF YOU'RE INTERESTED
IN PAM. YOU’D BETTER HEAD
FOR YOUR DENTIST. DICK*.-SHE
DOESNt LIRE BAD breath!
a
r
TO COMBAT BAD BREATH, I
/RECOMMEND COLGATE DENTAL
> CREAM.'-FOR SCIENTIFIC TESTS
/PROVE.THAT IN 7 OUT
(OF 10 CASES COLGATE’S
) INSTANTLY STOPS BAD
f BREATH THAT ORIGINATES,
IN THE mouth! 1
\.WER..tAa*t/dto-CofyateJ.
"HERE’S WHY: COLGATE DENTAL CREAM HAS
AN ACTIVE PENETRATING FOAM THAT GETS INTO
HIDDEN CREVICES BETWEEN TEETH—HELPS CLEAN
OUT DECAYING FOOD PARTICLES AND SO RE-
MOVES THE CAUSE Of MUCH UNPLEASANT
BREATH. AND COLGATE'S POUSHING AGENT
CLEANS ENAMEL THOROUGHLY.GENTLY.SAFELYr
sum V'
THANKS TO
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
He'S OFF THE ICE AND
ON THE BEAM }
ir
I'll,,
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
Cleans Your Breath While
It Cleans Your Teeth
tOV
REMEMBERS
ZWiCE.ADAY.ANQ BEFORE EVERY OAIA
w
FULLY GUARANTEED
LIGHTS EVERY TIME
Available at all leading
tobacconists and stores
Australian Agents:
h<s 0-i'f i e I
Maurice Newttead Pty. Ud., Sydney.
Leonard P, Newttead Pty. Ltd.. Melb.
Look
C
...and lashings
of leisure, too!
' The AGA has a Roasting Oven and
a Simmering Oven. You can stow
a 201 b. turkey in the one, and a whole meal to slow-cook
In the other and be sure of perfect results. No matte*
how much you use this unique British-made cooker, it
won’t add a id. to the bills ... for the AGA is the only
dooking stove in the world whose maximum consumption
is guaranteed not to exceed a certain figure.
Country owners have proved that fuel costs are less than
the fost of wood, even when cut on their property*
GUARANTEED FOR 10 YEARS,
SEE THE
AGA
COOKER
DEMONSTRATED AT
LEVIN AND COMPANY LIMITED
Sole Agents for AGA Heat Storage Cooker
45 King Street. Sydney ... 432 Bourke St.. Melbourne.
Showroom*: Colton, Palmer & Preston Ltd., Currie St, Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert Streets. Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agent*: A. G. Webster & Son* Ltd., Hobart.
WA Agent*: Malloch Bro*. Ltd., Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“I note with considerable pleasure
that Mr. and Mrs. Aly Khan have
practically faded from the headlines.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun:”
But they’ll still be found in
Ballyhoo’s Who.
*!•
“The trouble with most young
married folks is that when they
feather their nest they use too little
down.” — “Sunday Sun-.”
The husband so often prefers
a little'bit of fluff.
“Formal evening gowns have taken
new turns.” — Woman’s paper.
But little for the better.
•F 4* *
For Those Who Encfueuere.
More than a fueue people
complained about unsheltered
bus queues in Sydney’s
delueuege last week. This isn’t
nueue, of course; every time
it’s wet someone gets in a
stueue. All the same, the
Transport Department should
take a reasonable vueue, accept
the cueue and find some cash
from its revenueue to erect
shelters. Under the workers’-
compensation law a man is
eligible if hurt going to or from
work; if he contracts ’flueue
or pneuemonia because of a
drenching in a bus queue it
seems reasonable to sueue the
transport people. Perhaps, in
lueue of cash damages he could
be awarded a departmental
I.O.Ueue entitling him to free
travel for the residueue of the
amount.
Last week’s flood rains tem-
porarily rendered the transport
system asqueue, and some dis-
tress ensueued, but travellers,
imbueued with sympathy for the
operators, refrained from im-
promptueue remarks and rode
to Bellevueue Hill or Wueuel-
lueuemueuelueue or their par-
ticular venueue, subdueueing
their feelings as best they might.
Most of them knueue the con-
ductors weren’t responsible, but
there ought to be a hueue and
cry until shelters are provided.
Shelter from heavy rain is the
traveller’s dueue, and, not to
pursueue the matter further,
should be provided without un-
dueue delay. Travellers on one
bus last week showed distinct
signs of mildueue and emitted a
chorus of atishueues.
. V. Clueuese.
Evening the Score.
“Worries about housing, shortage
of electricity and the grocer’s bill
express themselves in the barracking
heard at the football each Saturday.”
'—Melbourne University Professor of
Psychology, O. A. Oeser.
When all around is dark and
cold and bleak
As I am sitting in my un-
warmed room
My soul rebelliously would like
to speak
Of striking miners who have
caused this gloom.
Yet I, poor humble fool, am
far too meek.
But when I go to view a football
game
’Tis then my spirit finally
rebels,
And, casting off the shackles of
its shame
Imposed by bureaucrats and
tradesmen, yells
Fierce objurgation, epithet and
blame.
For no one in the grandstand
really minds
If thus I soothe a grudge
against the brutes,
Or dream I’m some great player
who unwinds
A paralysing run, and with
my boots
Vicariously kick a few behinds.
BERT.
A High Authority.
“In reply to a remark by Mr.
Acheson (U.S.A.) at the Big Four
meeting that the Soviet Foreign
Minister’s speech ‘was as full of
propaganda as a dog is of fleas,’ M.
Vyshinsky said: ‘lf I may quote
from Scripture, don’t try to catch
fleas lest a camel slip through your
fingers.’ ”
Continuing, M. Vyshinsky
said that, so far as the unifica-
tion of Germany was concerned,
there was more joy in Heaven
over the straining at a gnat than
there was in trying to pass a
fool’s'lips through the eye of a
camel. It behoved the Im-
perialistic, anti-democratic Wes-
tern democracies to pause before
trying to split Germany into two
ideological halves, thus subscrib-
ing to the view that he that
casteth the first stone gathered
no moss, but his belly shall be
satisfied beside the still waters.
The Soviet’s frank and honest
policy, M. Vyshinsky went on,
was as the waters of Babylon,
pursuing where no man was
flea-ing himself. Only the deeply-
suspicious minds of the West
had, like the rod kept by the
man who was always pickled,
caused the stalemate which had
for so long frustrated the peace-
ful endeavors of Soviet Russia.
As the Corinthians said in their
second epistle to Paul, better a
good hot dinner with Herb than
having to eat in a stall with an ox.
It was, the Soviet Foreign
Minister continued, the avowed
policy of the U.S.S.R. to seek,
like the deaf adder that putteth
down one and setteth up
another, a peaceful solution to
the whole German problem. It
was very obviously the only one
of the Big Four that had no
warlike intentions. He would
say, as did Solomon, that as the
hay appeareth so the goats are
the price of the field.
Mr. Bevin (sotto voce ):
That’s right, Andrei hairy
goats! And the price is three
to one, bar one.
No amount of slimy trickery
or twisted thinking by those
who sought to put an atomic
ring around the New Democra-
cies, M. Vyshinsky went on,
could gainsay the fact that
Soviet Russia and her peace-
loving associates had been
patient. Could one go upon
hot coals, he would ask, and not
lie down with the lamb? Could
a man take fire in his bosom
and dwell in the uttermost parts
of the sea? It was the Soviet’s
inflexible intention that the
peace treaty with Germany be
quickly concluded. Let the war-
mongering plutocracies beware
of banging their willow and
their harp, for it were better to
dwell in a corner of the house-
top than putting a horseleach on
his two daughters who cry
“Gimme!”
The vile insinuations made at
the meeting that of the 3,000,000
German prisoners held by
Russia at the war’s end only
100.000 were now alive was as
flat as a tyre in Nineveh. Out
of the mouths of suckling pigs
seldom came pearls of price.
The scrofulous liars of the West
exaggerated. There were still
110.000 German war prisoners
still alive, or almost alive. He
would say, as a complete
answer, that the words of
a talebearer are as wounds
that go down to the sea where
no ship listeth, like a potsherd
covered with silver dross.
As for the vexed problem of
paying the Berlin Fascist rail-
waymen in the debased Western-
“That’ll do —Wrap it up.’’
sector currency, the introduc-
tion of which was a dictator-like
action abhorrent to the Soviet
with its broad and liberal ideas
of freedom for its citizens, it
might be said that he that
blesseth his friend with a loud
voice rising early in the
morning, the ointment of his
right hand bewrayeth itself.
There was nothing more apt to
the hearty good-fellowship and
downright generosity, which
had inspired Marshal Stalin, in
his boundless love of humanity,
to lift the rail-and-road block-
ade of Berlin than the famous
biblical injunction from the
Gospel according to St. Popo-
vitch, which says that the full
soul loatheth an honeycomb,
but a roaring lion and a ranging
bear sing and rejoiceth, for they
shall fire a heap of coals at his
head.
Touching on the vile action
of the predatory Western de-
mocracies in undisguisedly thiev-
ing from the people of the
Ruhr, under the pretence that it
comprised reparations, many
synthetic - oil factories which
should have been earmarked for
aiding the economy of the Eas-
tern half of Germany, M.
Vyshinsky said he would quote
from what had been attributed
wrongly to Jeremiah, but which
had been written long before-
as had, indeed, the whole Bible
—by the great Russian saint,
Serge Narkov: a bird m the
hand is a sluggard wiser in his
own conceit than seven men
that taketh a dog by the ears.
As the Ethiopian could skin
him for change, so a leopard
would dream dreams,
Let the decadent democracies,
who wanted to resuscitate Ger-
man might, remember that the
bloodthirsty are upright, but
few are of the Chosen,
BO.


THEOTHERFELLOW'SMIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
N.G. and Papua
Papua and New Guinea have now
been “provisionally” united for more
than three years. The Amalgamation
Bill does no more than give legality to
an accomplished fact. The record of
amalgamation so far gives occasion for
sighs rather than cheers.
Although there is general official dis-
couragement of, and opposition to,
private enterprise and development, the
Administration seems to lack any posi-
tive clear-cut policy, even a bad one.
The 10,000 or so Europeans either live oh
the Government or in spite of it. Among
the planting and commercial interests
frustration is giving rise to widespread
cynicism, while among Government em-
ployees apathy, carelessness and indiffer-
ence are common. The cost of govern-
ment, and the number of officials, is
enormous —Europeans on the Administra-
tion and Commonwealth payrolls are
estimated at nearly 1000. The joint
economy depends mainly on a yearly
“shot in the arm” in the shape of an
annual Commonwealth grant, or subsidy,
of around £2,000,000.
The high prices for copra and gold
haven’t yet succeeded in putting of
those cardinal industries on their pre-war
feet. Commodity prices, especially of
tinned foods on which Europeans mainly
depend, are sky-high—tinned butter, for
instance, is ss. 6d. a pound retail. Build-
ing materials, machinery and other essen-
tial requirements are either scarce and
very costly, or unobtainable. The Euro-
pean housing shortage would be desper-
ate if many whites were not living in
army huts or native-style dwellings. In
the main centres, European living costs,
in spite of the absence of taxation, are
higher than in the Australian cities.
Large sums are being spent on
native “advancement” without any visible
effect. In fact, the health of the great
apathetic mass of up to 1,500,000 natives,
who form a sombre background to the
New Disorder, is in general worse than
pre-war. Some outlying places have had
no medical patrol since 1941; Telefomin
had its first visit from a medical officer
last November.
Apart from post-war difficulties and
the present Canberra control, the fact
that both Territories cannot with maxi-
mum efficiency be administered from any
one centre is a main reason for the
failure of the tmion.
Geography is against Port Moresby, as
it is against any other Territorian centre,
as the capital of combined Papua-New
Ciuinea. It was central enough for
Papua alone, but in relation to much of
the former mandate, it is as remote as
Thursday Island or Cooktown.
The nature of the country and. its
lack of development and communications
are two other factors operating against
the efficient working of a single admini-
stration. Together, these two Territories
cover 180,000 square miles of the most
rugged, most mountainous and least
developed country in the world. They
are without railways, almost without
roads, and have a sparse and primitive
population.
Economic differences between the
territories also militate against union.
Separated by a tremendous 13,000 ft.-high
mountain barrier, they lie back to back,
not side by side. One looks north, the
other south, Papua, still lacking “big
oil,” is a relatively poor country, while
New Guinea is a rich one which, pre-war,
had 275,000 acres of commercial planta-
tions compared with Papua’s 64,000
acres, and produced £3,000,000 worth of
gold a year, as against Papuan produc-
tions of a little over £lOO,OOO. New
Guinea was self-supporting, while Papua
drew a Commonwealth subsidy of £50,000
a year, and needed more,
Papua is an Australian colony,
and New Guinea is a United Nations
Trust Territory. If, as claimed,
-trusteeship policy - is to. be fully
applied, the linking of the two in
unholy wedlock will produce a curious,
uncomfortable and extremely expensive
“two-in-pne” Government, requiring a
very large body of officials, as can already
be clearly seen. Any contention that two
Administrations would be dearer than
one can be refuted by a study of pre-war
conditions. Then, both Territories were
run at a fraction of today’s cost.
In one respect admittedly, that of
defence, union is essential. Fortunately,
the idiotic League of Nations “no-mili-
tarisation” policy no longer applies, and
there is no bar to fortification. The bases
at Port Moresby, Finschhafen and
Manus, however unimpressive, are a step
in the right direction.
Apart from that vital aspect, however,
it seems that it is separation, not amalga-
mation, that is called for. If the Terri-
tories were two politically, and one mili-
tarily, they could go their separate de-
velopmental ways, without prejudice to
their own and Australia’s defence.
Administrations based on Port Moresby
in the one case, and Lae or Madang in
the other, might reasonably be expected
to recapture something of the high pre-
war standards, particularly if a Papuan
oil-strike put the southern Territory on
economic equality with its northern neigh-
bor and introduced an element of com-
petition.
Political separation wouldn’t by any
means cure all Territorian post-war ills,
but it would be a fair first stage in the
correct treatment of them, —K. A. S.
(N.G.).
Queensland Hospitals
Whatever the arguments for and against
Federal control of “free” medicine, the
pre-natal, hospital and post-natal care
of expectant and nursing mothers in
Queensland is a credit to the instigator
of the system—Digger Ned Hanlon.
My wife, having her first at 37, proved
a difficult case, requiring constant treat-
ment throughout pregnancy, an emer-
gency spell in hospital at six months, and
careful attention at the confinement three
months later. She entered hospital as a
public patient, but, showing evidence of
blood-pressure, was taken to a private
ward. A healthy baby was delivered five
days ahead of expected time. Attendance
at the pre-natal clinic ensured a full check
on her progress during pregnancy, and
after the event careful attention and
advice from the post-natal clinic have
given us a happy little Australian who
looks like being a credit to the country.
Total cost? Eight shillings for the taxi
to bring the son-and-heir (and the
mother) back home. Three weeks later
a cheque for £l5 arrived as baby bonus,
plus a chit to provide the new arrival
with a money-box.
Looking at the home to which we
brought him, I wish that the Housing
Commission would get on the same beam
as the State Social Services (Maternity
section). — Video (Q.).
New State
According to figures released by the
N. S. Wales statistician New England
would be, after N. S. Wales and Victoria,
the wealthiest State in the Common-
wealth. In his report the statistician lists
New England’s production for 1948:
Agriculture £16,983,000
Pastoral • • £23,054,000
Dairying and Farmyard .. .. £17,318,000
Forests, Fishing and Trapping £5,639,000 ,
Mining £7,134,000
Total Primary £70,128,000
Manufacturing £28,328,000
Total Production £98,456,000
That compares more than favorably
with Queensland’s £94 millions, S.A.’s
£7O, Westralia’s £45 and Tasmania’s
£23. Value of production per head
in 1948 in New England was £l6l,
Queensland £B5, South Australia £lOB,
Westralia £9O and Tasmania £92.
As the taxing power of a Government
is proportional to the productive power
of the community, public finances of
New England should be far healthier than
those of the other four smaller States.
New England, with its vast productive
resources, should become not only self-
supporting, but should be in a position
to contribute to the general welfare of
the nation. As a small, efficient, well-
governed Federal unit it could also con-
tribute much to the political life of the
Commonwealth. — New-Stater (N.S.W.).
An important event for New-Staters
will be the All-Australian Constitutional
Convention which is being organised by
the N.S.W. Constitutional League in Syd-
ney on July 25 and 26. Originally the
proposal was sponsored by the New Eng-
land New State Movement to further
its policy of the “preservation and
strengthening of the Federal system, the
amendment of the New States chapter
to facilitate subdivision of unwieldy
States and the holding of an official
people’s elected convention at the
earliest possible date.” The most im-
portant result of the deliberations of the
convention will be the decision on new
States. At present a long and tedious
constitutional process involving the con-
sent of both the Commonwealth and the
State Parliament concerned is necessary
to create new States. An alteration in
the Commonwealth Constitution could
cut this delay to a fraction. —J. B.
(N.S.W.).
Communism
The argument that Communism is a
natural reaction from hardship and
poverty is always misleading—the disease
has never risen from the poor or
oppressed classes in any country, even in
Russia. It has caused famine, disease
and civil war, but cured none of those
afflictions, and it has always been im-
posed from above by a few people who
intended to keep all power in their own
hands.
Bernard Newman pointed out that in
Italy the post-war Commo vote was re-
corded among the well-off members of
the former Fascist party, not among the
poor. And in Australia we see and
hear far more about Communism in the
Chifley Golden Age, just as America does
in the New Deal Age.
That Dragnet Digest item (B. 25 / 5 / ’49)
also illustrates the kind of Americans who
favor Communism:
Of the 100 leading fellow-travellers
24 were college professors, 21 writers and
educators, nine actors or producers, eight
clergymen, eight lawyers and six millionaires.
That pattern is universal. The London
“Times” has lately described fellow-
travellers and apologists as a greater
menace than avowed Commos. They are
potential Quislings who intend to have the
best in both worlds. In the capitalist
countries they run no greater risk than
that of being called broadminded, while
if Communism ever triumphs—well,
haven’t they always favored it?
A lifelong Socialist of rather sterner
moral fibre than these fellow-travellers,
Bertrand Russell went to Russia in 1920
to investigate the great experiment. He
finally pronounced it a failure from the
Socialist standpoint, and likely to have a
tragic future. Russell had no doubt,
either, that force was the base of all
Communism.
“It is almost inevitable,” he wrote,
“that men placed in Russia, as they main-
tain that the Communists must place
themselves wherever the social revolution
succeeds, will be loath to relinquish their
monopoly of power ” The Russell
essay, “The Practice and Theory of
Bolshevism,” has been reprinted nearly
30 years after it was written. It needed
no revision to bring it up to date, which
is sufficient proof of its truth and pre-
science.—E. & O.E. (Tas.).
Melbourne Pubs
Melbourne, with the 1956 Olympic
Games in the bag, is waking up at last
to the fact that it is hopelessly under-
pubbed, and that those hotels which are
functioning have got right away from the
the old “Mine Host” type and are mainly
in the hands of “large corporations”—
which of course means the breweries.
Some amazing facts have been brought
to light as to the outmoded inadequacy
of hotel accommodation. With one or
two exceptions, Melbourne, with a popu-
lation of well over a million, can boast of
nothing in the way of a really modern
hotel. Many of them were built in the
’eighties and round about the land-boom
period. The majority, both in city and
suburbs, are merely open for bar trade,
and when six o’clock comes are securely
locked up and provide nothing for the
bona fide traveller seeking accommoda-
tion.
The Licensing Act lays down very
clearly what the publican is supposed to
provide, but there are also so many things
he need not do that the whole thing
is a farce. From time to time there is
much talk by the different political parties
about reforms, but it never gets past the
talking stage. That bar trade is not
aiways essential has been proved by two
of the most popular Melbourne establish-
ments, neither of which is licensed.
The appalling condition of Melbourne
as regards pubs is repeated in the pro-
vincial centres and country towns. The
obvious remedy is more licences and con-
sequent competition. Without that com-
petition nothing will be achieved. Bung
sits secure in the knowledge that no more
licences will be granted, and buying the
ingoing of an existing pub leaves little to
provide those amenities which, in more
civilised countries, are taken for granted.
However, 1956 will be here quicker
than the dreamers appreciate; and un-
less the Olympic business is to turn into
something worse than a farce both the
State Government and the City Fathers
will need to get busy.—Ceg (Vic.),
Apple Boards
Thousands of bushels of apples and
pears are lying rotting on the grounds of
Westralian orchards, and the Apple and
Pear Board goes blithely on with its cast-
iron regulations which give the
orchardist, without much labor, a rich re-
ward and denies the consumer fruit at a
reasonable price.
By the present, arrangement an
orchardist may get paid for 800 bushels of
apple?, while the board takes only 400
and leaves the balance to rot or be
dug-in.— Pip (W.A.).
Snowy Plan
The defence aspect of the Snowy
River plan (B. 1/6/’49) is nothing more
than camouflage designed to conceal
the true nature of the proposal. The
Snowy plan is, in fact, no different from
schemes like Burrinjuck in N. S. Wales
and Kiewa in Victoria. It is a scheme
only for irrigation and the generation of
hydroelectricity. It is labelled as a de-
fence project so that it will come within
the powers conferred upon the Federal
Government by the Constitution. If
they gave it its true name it would be
evident that it was a matter for the
States and not the Commonwealth. It is
yet another instance of Federal intrusion
into fields reserved for the States. —
J. B. R. (N.S.W.).
Community Farms
I don’t think part-time community
farm-settlements for wage-earners (B.
25/5/’49) would be successful in Aus-
tralia —Australians are too individual in
their living habits. The typical sub-
urbanite favors a detached house and
minimum contact with his neighbors.
The farmer is the same.
There is no tradition here of any cor-
porate association such as the peasantry
have in most parts of Europe. The old
three-field strip system of cultivation —
under which the land attached to a par-
ticular village constituted, for purposes
of tillage, one farm, though owned indi-
vidually and in varied areas —was a form
of community farming.
That was the general method in Europe
for many centuries, enduring in some
countries down to modem times. In
England, except in two or three small
localities where it still continues, it ended
with the “Enclosure of the Common
Lands,” a process that began in the late
eighteenth century and lasted until about
100 years ago.
Australia was settled after the
enclosures began, and when up-to-date
agricultural opinion regarded the old
method as outdated. Hence it never took
root here. Rather, as the years passed, the
individual nature of Australian farmers
became more and more pronounced.
There is no popular interest here in com-
munity farming, whether whole-time or
part-time. Similarly the community flats,
which Lady Beveridge advocated when
she was in Australia, have little appeal
for urban Australians. Dentonio
(N.S.W.).


the Chinese. The title of his play comes
from Ezra Pound’s poem—
And Li-Po
Also died drunk.
He tried to embrace a Moon
In the Yellow River —
and, in its final simplicity, Denis John-
ston’s theme is that Ireland is dying drunk,
trying to embrace a moon in the Liffey.
He reserves, no doubt, a suspicion that
the moon may be worth diving for.
Mr. Johnston’s view of his compatriots
may not be quite correct. It is modified
to some extent by his own play, which,
though it paints its characters as mad
as the Chinese, is itself obviously the pro-
duct of a sophisticated European mind
with which any civilised reader can fully
sympathise. And Denis Johnston is as
Irish as his Lanigan.
Yet it remains true that something of
the international interest of his play has
departed. It is more significant now to
the Irish, as a kind of local satire, than
it can be to the Western world generally,
where people do not behave so anarchi-
cally, or to the rest of the Empire, where,
one feels, Irish politics are no longer of
immediate concern. For good or for ill,
temporarily or permanently, the problem
appears to have been solved.
One is left, then, as in Dostoievsky or
in a report of Chinese happenings, to
find two kinds of interest in the play:
one, the detached interest, such as one
takes in a book about animals, in oddity
of behavior for the sake of its oddity ;
and secondly, as in Dostoievsky, mingled
with the oddity and remoteness, the
common humanity which even the
Chinese and the Russians (and, Denis
Johnston would add, the terrorists of
Ireland) share with the rest of mankind.
From both aspects —in the bizarreness
of its violence and in the human richness
of its comedy —The Moon in the Yellow
River reads very pleasantly, and it would
still make an interesting play for the
stage; interesting, but a little remote,
That is the fate of all works of art, not
only Irish, in which the final emphasis
(Dems Johnston’s characters are lively
but not, like Synge’s, profound) is not on
character but on politics.
Law and Histrionics .
A Yankee at the Court of King Arthur,
or an American in the law-courts of King
George 111, always contrives to look a
little out of place; in the matter-of-fact
language of the New World the hoary
antiquities of the Old lose a lot of their
mysterious and forbidding glamor; this
is the first thing to be noticed in Lloyd
Paul Stryker’s life of Erskine, For the
Defence (Staples Press).
What is a sergeant-at-law? How many
an English lay-reader has struck this
awesome title in old histories and novels,
and taken it for granted, a part of the
black art by which, in some manner
known only to lawyers, an indefinable
thing called justice has been handed down
the centuries. Not so Mr. Stryker.
Sergeants-at-law, or servientes-ad-legem,
were known in 1275; no one knows where
they came from, but you had to be one
before you could be made a Judge; you
wore a “close-fitting, saucer-like cap”
called a coif, but in Erskine's time this
had been replaced by a circular black
patch fastened to your wig, etc., etc. —
excellent information, and as one of
America’s leading barristers, Mr. Stryker
is by no means unappreciative of these
age-old British customs:
English trials differ from our own in
much the same way as does the High
Church service of a cathedral with its
candles, vested priests, and choirs, from the
less ceremonial forms of worship. The
English courts are, like well-ordered and
imposing temples—temples of justice, vitally
contributing to the respect with which the
English look upon their administration of
justice and the profound regard they all
feel for the dignity of their laws. Let no
man, no matter how addicted to republican
simplicity, underestimate the practical
advantages which attend the seeming
histrionics of an English trial.
Alas, the very words with which he
describes the mystery dispel it. At that,
he does not awake the shudders which
Disraeli’s lush and fawning description
of Eton and its customs causes the British
reader, and if his attitude to the “histri-
onics” and “ritual” of British law amuses
us, it must be admitted that he tells us
a great deal about it which we did not
know or think to inquire into, and if he
cannot write about British law as an
Englishman, he brings to an interpreta-
tion of its drama a solid grounding in
his native Hollywood. For every great
American has a little of Hollywood in
him, and if this life of Thomas Erskine,
the midshipman who became an Army
ensign, and, burdened with a wife and a
growing family, studied law at the age
of 25, found fame with his first case, and
went on to the Chancellorship, is a Holly-
wood history, it is about the finest thing
Hollywood has done,
Erskine is presented to us somewhat in
the style of Erie Stanley Gardner’s de-
tective-advocate, Perry Mason, quiet,
fearless, ingenious, an original brain turn-
ing old laws to new uses, a master of
courtroom, technique and a skilled
manager of juries, by a lawyer who con-
siders him the greatest of all English
advocates, and is anxious to show off all
the points of his excellence in an examina-
tion of a series of his great cases.
Most of these trials could be called
political trials. In the Baillie and Admiral
Keppel trials Erskine made his name as
the fearless champion of the individual
against the machinations of privileged
aristocracy. In the Dean of St. Asaph
trial, he fought the interpretation of the
libel law which allowed the jury to find
only that this man had published these
words referring to those people, and left
it to the Judge to determine whether the
words were libel. One jury, in the cele-
brated prosecution of Junius’s publishers,
had found a way out with a verdict of
“Guilty of publishing only,” which
pushed the Judges out into the open. But
it was Erskine who pressed the matter to
appeal after appeal, and helped draft the
Fox libel law of 1792 which gave a jury
the responsibility of determining both
fact and libel.
In a whole group of trials, the Thomas
Paine, “Morning Chronicle,” Horne
Tooke, Frost, Walker, etc., trials, Erskine
fought the Government’s effort to break
the Reform movements in Britain, which
had been considerably influenced by the
French Revolution. Here his challenge,
at first unsuccessful, but slowly gaining
over the courts as well as the public, was
that the Government was suppressing
Reform by charging it as high treason.
Mr. Stryker presents these freedom-of-
speech trials as a duel between Erskine
and the younger Pitt, Pitt making the
prosecutions in Cabinet, Erskine neutra-
lising them in court; and perhaps he is
guilty of a little special pleading when,
after giving several anecdotes of Pitt’s
freezing effect upon the more genial
Erskine in Parliament, he concludes, with-
out presenting evidence, that Erskine was
never overawed by Pitt.
In the trial of James Hadfield, who had
fired a pistol at King George 111 at the
opera, Erskine attacked the prosecutor’s
contention that for a plea of insanity to
succeed there must be a “total deprivation
of memory and understanding,” and with
an argument that delusion is “the true
character of insanity” laid the basis for
most later argument on this subject;
although it seems probable that his being
able to show that Hadfield, as a good
soldier, had received terrible head injuries
in Flanders was the main reason for the
success of his defence. The summary
conviction and execution of Spencer
Perceval’s mad murderer 12 years later
offers some food for reflection upon the
even-handedness of justice, and forms a
good yardstick of the hypnotic power of
Erskine’s advocacy.
The one case in which Mr. Stryker
shows Erskine appearing for the Crown
is in the prosecution of Paine’s Age of
Reason. He had defended, unsuccessfully
but brilliantly, The Rights of Man, but
when Paine struck at religion, the de-
fender of the rights of the common man
spoke in language which would seem very
strange to the common man today.
It is in presenting Erskine as an advo-
cate that Mr. Stryker is at his happiest
He has gone to great pains to set the
political stages of the trials ; there are
short surveys of the state of England and
of the rise and effect upon England of
the French Revolution, small biographies
of Burke, Paine, Horne Tooke, Pitt,
George 111, the Prince of Wales and his
set; and —a labor of love, since Brougham
more than Erskine is the hero of it —he
has ended his book with a monograph
of more than a hundred pages on Caro-
line, Princess of Wales, and her State trial
for adultery.
And then Mr. Stryker (should we call
him Counsellor Stryker?) has combed the
long Erskine speeches for their significant
parts, and, presenting some of the exami-
nations and cross-examinations of the
trial, he has recreated the scenes, giving
Erskine gestures and shouts and whispers
and telling glances at the jury which
bring the old accounts to life with the
vividity of yesterday’s Royal Commission
in the newspapers.
It is no dispraise to say that the book
is superb Hollywood almost to the end ;
but then Lord Erskine lets Mr. Stryker
down; the old man marries his servant,
holding his cloak over their children at
the wedding service to protect them from
imputation of bastardy; and after his
death the starving widow applies for aid
to the Government, and when she is asked
why she did not apply to Erskine’s other
family, she explains that she imagined
they would be too poor to help her—
the great lawyer had steadily lost all his
money in bad investments.
Reviewed Briefly.
Simple Simon Smith: Dale Collins
(Herbert Jenkins). Mr. Collins goes
down to the sea again in a luxury yacht;
or, more precisely, his hero, holidaying
with his gold-digger wife at Jersey, in the
Channel Islands, is washed out to sea on
an inflated rubber tyre, and picked up by
the gold-mounted pleasure-yacht of a
loony Countess, who sees in him her
long-lost boy; and so ensues much slap-
stick, involving a wicked doctor and a
beautiful Austrian dancer; and the novel
ends by returning the hero to the beach
from which he started.
* * * *
In the Green Tree: Alun Lewis (Allen
and Unwin). A memorial volume to this
young Welsh poet and sfiort-story writer,
killed fighting in India, in 1943, aged 27.
Preface by A. L. Rowse, postscript by
Gwyn Jones of the “Welsh Review,”
drawings by John Petts. The book prints
his letters from India, and six short
stories, all war stories, of which “Night
Journey” is a masterpiece.
, * * * *
Blackmail in Blankshire: C. A. Aling-
ton (Faber). A blackmailer has begun on
the clergy and other respected citizens of
the Diocese of Blankford, and is un-
covered, with as much or as little excite-
ment and mystery as attends the opening
of a charity bazaar, by Archdeacon
Craggs and his friend Sir Michael
Mohun, to an accompaniment of demure
clerical jokes, and amused comment on
the accents and manners of the lower and
middle classes which, in any other author
than the Dean of Durham, might seem
like snobbery.
He * * *
Scottish Art: Stanley Cursiter (Har-
rap). There was a John Scougall, the
earliest identified native Scottish painter,
who, about 1627, painted himself in a
ruff and a pointed red beard, looking
not unlike Shakspeare; William Aikman,
trained in Italy, who painted himself in
the silver periwig of the eighteenth cen-
tury ; Allan Ramsay, whom one would
like to think may have been an ancestor
of the Australian Hugh Ramsay and who
painted women as charming as Hugh
Ramsay’s; the great Raeburn, whose
“Mrs. Scott Moncrieff” and “Miss
Lamont” both look as if they should have
been in love with Lord Byron ; Sir David
Wilkie with the wit and shrewd character-
isation of “The Letter of Introduction” ;
Alexander Fraser, who escaped from the
romantic landscape to the brilliant fidelity
of “Haymaking on the Avon”; Noel
Paton, whose fantastic, fairy pictures
have wit and imagination like those of
the mad artist Richard Dadd, discovered
by the Sitwells; Walter Geikie, Robert
Herdman, Thomas Grahame, Robert
Scott Lauder with his beautiful command
of tone, William McTaggart and John
Pettie, of the magnificent “Bonnie Prince
Charlie” ; and all these great and noble
painters, whose outstanding characteris-
tics are firmness of technique; strength of
portraiture and a fine emotional response
to the grandeur of mountains and the
grace of women, are here presented in
16 colorplates and 48 black-and-whites,
with a knowledgeable appreciation by his
Majesty’s Painter and Limner in Scot-
land, in a handsome book which should
need no further recommendation to the
MacGregors, the MacWhirters, the Mac-
Donalds, the McLeans and the McCul-
lochs and which all lesser mortals would
do well to study. Except for an occa-
sional tendency to include golfers in the
landscape there is nothing wrong with
Scottish painting.
Shoes.
I don’t know what it is the sea does
to personal property like shoes.
I have taken off my shoes
and dressed them side by side
as I put them on the floor beneath my
bed,
because I know I shall lose them
for ever in the dry weed
and withered debris of the last spring tide
if they are ever separated.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
This Understanding.
Though here is evidence
that years burr as they go
the edge-tool of sense,
I will not have it so.
And surely that is enough
to preserve the temper still;
softening or wearing rough
being failure of will.
Discipline should fall now
on habits hardening to flint,
and eyes proved party to
the smudging of fine print,
and all such carelessness —
on which, not years, be blame:
it was by years and stress
this understanding came.
n.s.w.
ROBERT D. FRIZGERALD.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 23
Across.
I—See1 —See you burden this vegetable. (8)
4 —Ridicules grain in the steamer. (6)
9 —lt is not fitting to sleep in it. (5)
10 — Plot with you behind-time when
of a flat oval shape. (9)
11 — Osculate X. (4)
12 — Fender the dairymaid? (10)
15 — He has shots at clay pigeons
before tea strikes the derisive
spectator. (11)
16 — Island of the most highly de-
veloped primate. (3)
17 — Always one with the old English.
(3) •
18 — Gautama provides continent illu-
mination. (5, 2,4)
21 —Florentine Frankfurt and the
usual piece of bread? (10)
23 —Pass this innings. (4)
25 — Located before the coppers sank.
(9)
26 — You take a horse to a famous
meeting-place in darkest Africa.
(5)
27 — Hate the steed confused before
tea. (6)
28 — The turtle’s shell a vehicle at
great speed, (8)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
C Solution in next issue.)
Down
1 — Insect vampires in the willows.
a, 4)
2 Schoolfellow to see the girl finish
off the game of chess. (9)
3 Marry for Paraguay tea. (4)
5 Woo the vessel characteristic of
Davis Cup players. (10)
6 Extend the grasp for. (5)
7 Girl to initiate litigation. (3)
8 — Charm of a thousand at the race-
course. (6)
10 —Parent duck to behold Fran-
cesca’s lover. (5)
13 — Underlings portrait of a British
film magnate trimming his finger-
nails. (4, 3,4)
14 — Pleases Dan in these avenues. (10)
16 —Vicious and evil woman in the
place where the ship’s officers eat
one and upset a duck. (9)
19 — Animals that attack with the
horns. (6)
20 — Paved with glossy bricks bound
about fifty. (5)
22 —Bound in an arched chamber. (5)
24 — Young animal on a big island in
the Caribbean. (4)
25 — A craze. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 22.


ROLLS RAZOR
ẁ
1
sy
&
£4
AND NOW the makers of the world’s
most famous Safety Razor proudly present the
£770
ELECTRIC
DRY-SHAVER
A beautifully made precision
I instrument which incorporates
f the following .outstanding
characteristics.
1. It is fully guaranteed against de-
fective material or workmanship.
2. It has no motor and requires
no lubrication.
3. There is only one efficient self
sharpening, Twin-cutting head
to be cleaned after shaving.
With all these distinct advantages
the Rolls “Viceroy” Electric Dry
Shaver is the best that money can
buy.
THE NON - ELECTRIC
DRY SHAVER A. SHAVE ANYWHERE
AT ANY TIME . . .
Without Electricity, Soap, Water,
Brush or Blades. This fully guar-
anteed non-electric precision in-
strument is a useful substitute
for your Viceroy Electric
Shaver during Blackouts. The
ideal companion for a man
when travelling and on holi-
day camping trips. Keep one
in the glove box of your car
and shave where you like when
you like. Remember you need
no electricity, soap, water or
blades to operate the Viceroy
Non-Electric Dry Shaver.
0/01/97
/
T he famous
One Blade .
Equipped with one hollow ground blade
which, with proper care and attention, will
last for many years. This self stropping,
self honeing Rolls Safety Razor has main-
tained its prestige and given perfect satis-
faction to countless thousands of men the
world over for more than a quarter of a
century.
Rolls Razor products are obtainable from all leading Stores, Chemists and
Tobacconists. If your locid dealer is unable to supply, write direct to us and we will
see that your requirements are sent Post Free to any address in the Commonwealth!
ROLLS
RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY. TELEPHONE 8W2038.
Interstate Representatives:
QUEENSLAND; The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane
VICTORIA and TASMANIA: Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
Drury Lane, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay Street, Perth
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd., Plrie Street, Adelaide
