

CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN I
£ Have you friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then, is news that must
interest you. Just imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
in the same wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the “WINE-FOR-
BKITAIN” scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their London Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. You’ll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts “Wine-For-Britain” scheme: Write to The House of Seppelt, Box 1423 H, G.P.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 70—No. 3638
Wednesday, November 2, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney. N.S.W.. Australia, for Transmission bv Post as a Newsoaner
Seppelts
NUNNEY’S NORMAN RUIN RECALLS ENGLAND’S STORMY PAST
X picturesque village of Nunney, three miles from Frorae and lying
u aer a south-east spur of the Mendip Hills, possesses a castle which is
r°L e , ar i^ st fortresses m Britain. It was built in 1373 by
o r John de la Mare out of the spoils of the French wars when he obtained
trom bdward 111 a licence to “fortify and crenellate his manse at Nonny
“I c c ount y Somerset. .. The following year he was made Keeper
t ict? 111 . Castle, and in 1377 Sheriff of Somerset.
in id / / the castle came into the possession of Richard Prater, in whose
amiiy tt until the days of Charles I (1625-1649). When the Civil
War broke out the owner, Colonel Richard Prater, held the castle for the
*be castle made a determined resistance against the besiegers under
Fairfax, who deployed two regiments with cannon which, when brought into
action, made a breach in the walls. The garrison, consisting of eighty men,
surrendered when they recognised that further resistance was useless. When
the castle was taken Colonel Prater hoped to save his possessions by going
over from the Royalist to the Parliamentarians, but in this he was disappointed,
for the castle, like all similar strongholds, was practically destroyed. The
floors and wooden partitions were removed and the roof stripped off, leaving
the castle very much as it appears today.
The castle is rectangular in plan, with circular towers at the four corners
of the curtain wall, and is surrounded by a moat which is twenty-five feet
wide and ten feet deep. The moat was crossed by a bridge on its north side
with a drawbridge in front of the entrance. The interior arrangement consisted
of three floors and a basement, and the principal apartments on the second
floor were reached by a small spiral stair in the thickness of the wall.
In 1926 the building was taken over by the Commissioners of H.M.
Office of Works, who have restored the castle, which is today a fine example
of a fortified dwelling of the fourteenth century.


Learn
at HO^TF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.**
My Name
My Address
5.8.U0 AOB
The Red Page
ON THE WALLABY.
It is superfluous to say that Wanderers
in Australia (Angus and Robertson),
edited by Colin Roderick, is one of the
best books of travel ever published in this
country: for it is an anthology selected
from the best that have previously been
published. Or from some of the best.
There is an extract, for instance, from
Jack McLaren’s My Crowded Solitude,
that admirable book to which A. A.
Phillips recently drew attention in An
Australian Muster. And McLaren’s mid-
night battle with a giant carpet-snake
which he had wounded after it tried to
swallow his dog is a truly astounding piece
of information:
Then suddenly the thing released its grip
of the ridge and came tumbling down in a
mighty monstrous mass that blotted out
the bonfire and splashed my face with
blood; and the next moment I was hanging
on to the doorpost as 1 had never hung
on to anything before, for in falling the
Thing had taken around my arm a full
round turn, covering it from elbow to
shoulder, and with its tail got a grip of
the further side of the table in order to
give it “purchase”—and was constricting
with all its strength.
There are two extracts from C. E. W.
Bean’s On the Wool Track, in one of
which there is drought at Bourke and in
the other river-steamers on the Darling;
and Bean in a poetic image of the Aus-
tralia within Australia catches the spirit
of the book as a whole:
The truth is that there exists inside
coastal Australia a second Australia —the
larger of the two —of which most of our
people know very little more than do the
Londoners.
Again, there is a chapter from Rose
White’s No Roads Go By, a book of the
Never-Never recently praised by Enid
Moodie Heddle. Mrs. White, the wife
of a station-manager in the Lake Frome
country, describes a dust-storm:
The thought comes that the crust over
Hades has broken, and that the orange-red,
sulphur-yellow fumes have drifted through.
At times, when the wind drops, an uncanny
silence grips the dust-choked world. For
a fleeting moment sheds, harness-room,
meat-house and kitchen are seen, unfamiliar
and indistinct shapes through the gloomy
pall. Then with terrible venom the wind
sweeps down the depressions between the
sandhills. Such ungovernable fury is
released as will surely brush one from the
face of the earth. Timber creaks and
strains, roof-iron begins to lift and flap
and window-sashes rattle and shake as if
in the grip of ghostly hands. A noise of
rending wood, a strange boom, boom,
boom, and a new ten-thousand-gallon
rainwater-tank is rolling ahead of the
storm to be crumpled up like tinfoil before
it reaches the second sandhill.
These books, and others such as Finlay-
son’s The Red Centre, have become
classics in their field. Some of the books
from which Mr. Roderick prints extracts
are of less intrinsic quality. One would
not pick The Great Boomerang as the
likeliest of lon Idriess’s books to live ;
at any rate, purely on its merits as travel
literature. And Trollope’s Australia and
New Zealand, though his great novels
may carry it along with them, is hardly
to be ranked among his more important
works. But in these and other cases —•
Malcolm Uren’s description of the
Abrolhos Islands and the pictures of
Sydney and Melbourne from The Real
Australia by Alfred Buchanan —the
extracts are certainly worth reprinting in
this book, both as a part of the general
pattern and in their own right as descrip-
tions of Australian territory.
Idriess, besides setting out his dreams of
water for the inland, gives his fascinating
description of a grass-seed coming to life
when a single drop of rain falls on it
near Lake Eyre. Trollope, flatteringly
declaring the Hawkesbury to be more
beautiful than the Rhine, paints—with a
complacence possible only to a gregarious
man and a Victorian who knew not the
radio, the speedboat and the herd of
hikers —a monstrous vision of that lovely
and lonely river befouled with guest-
houses and tourists. Alfred Buchanan,
an English novelist and critic, visited
Sydney in 1907 and found it
languorous as the land of the lotos-flower,
enervating as the Island of Circe The
people as a rule are not ambitious. They
have not the restless unquiet temperament
associated with the Anglo-Saxon race in
other and less pleasant parts of the globe.
Today, before he could find a lotos in
Sydney Mr. Buchanan would be knocked
over by a taxi; but Colin Roderick’s
selection from this writer has at least the
charm of a period-piece, and it would
not do to have the whole of his anthology
a picture of a life-and-death struggle in
the wilderness.
That is, in fact, the only criticism one
could make of the selection. There seems
to be too much desert. Certainly, there
is a lot of desert in Australia; and
certainly these selections are all very good
desert. But when you have read C. E. W.
Bean’s drought. Rose White’s dust-storm
and Idriess’s Dead Heart, and then the
extract from Mrs. A. M. Duncan-Kemp’s
Our Sandhill Country about the Dia-
mantina and Georgina, and then Finlay-
son on The Red Centre, and then Fred
Blakeley counting “thirty-two old graves
on the way we took to the salt-lakes lying
between us and Moolowurtana” and then
M. Barnard Eldershaw—in the course of
a general survey of Westralia—“far out
in the sand among the dry salt-lakes in
endless spinifex country” . . , when you
have swallowed all this sand you do begin
to feel that Mr. Roderick is a little too
insistent on your doing a perish. His book
seems to be staggering in circles around
Lake Eyre; and this is a pity, for except
for this one disadvantage Wanderers in
A ustralia is the perfect book to send over-
seas to anyone who wants to visit us or
read about us. There was a much better
balance in M. Barnard Eldershaw’s My
Australia, from which Colin Roderick
quotes.
But, then, the compiler of an anthology
is not a Tourist Department. And it may
simply be that the desert scenes and stories
are more dramatic than those of the coast,
the fertile country and the cities (Bris-
bane and Adelaide are rather chattily de-
scribed by Dr. Thomas Wood), and so,
of their own force, defeat the editor’s
attempt to give a balanced picture of the
continent as a whole.
Mr. Roderick himself may have felt
that he was spending too much time in
the Dead Heart, for he keeps rushing to
the coast and swimming off to outlying „
islands for a breather: to Dunk Island
for E. J. Banfield’s swelling pawpaws and
even .more swelling style; with Charles
Barrett to the islands of Bass Strait and
their birds and their mutton-birders de-
scended from the otherwise extinct Tas-
manian aborigines; with C. Price Coni-
grave to the natives of Bathurst and
Melville Islands, 50 miles north of
Darwin ; with Albert Fuller Ellis to the
phosphate deposits of Rocky Island;
with Malcolm Uren to his Abrolhos ;
with T. C. Roughley around the islands
of the Barrier Reef, where Mr, Roughley
gets among some Spanish mackerel that,
when the present reviewer fished the
Barrier with the redoubtable “Standby,”
were all absent on a visit somewhere,
possibly to the Dead He^rt.
Mr. Roderick has, then, even if the
sandhills “creep” to some extent over the
happier areas, attempted to see Australia
steadily and to see it whole; and, as well
as his cool island surf, he has a good deal
of bush and mountain to set against the
desert: Richard Semon, the German
naturalist, writing about the birds and
fish of Queensland in 1891 and, in con-
trast to Trollope, rejoicing in “solitude
in perfection” ; Bean on the Darling with
the wool-bales, McLaren among his
coconuts ; waterholes alive with frogs and
beetles in Mrs. Duncan-Kemp’s country ;
Francis Birtles catching stingarees and
crocodiles away up in Arnhem Land ;
Robert H. Croll in hard enough Country
at Hermannsburg, but singularly refresh-
ing in his descriptions of aboriginal
children singing around the campfire;
Francis Ratcliffe stalking lyrebirds in
Lamington National Park ; P. G. Taylor
landing his plane at Forest Vale cattle-
station, taking care that the machine is
not eaten by the cattle as it nearly was
by camels at Wyndham; and Elyne
Mitchell “out on the tops” of the moun-
tains she wrote so finely about in Aus-
tralia’s Alps.
It would be pointless to question Mr.
Roderick’s choice of travel-books to make
up this anthology. You could take twenty
other travellers and make just as good a
book; but you would find it very hard
to make a better book than this. The
idea of producing it arose, Mr. Roderick
says, from a conversation with “that
thoroughgoing Australian” Miles Frank-
lin ; to depict the earth from which Aus-
tralian fiction springs and upon which it
moves.
Domestic Scapegoat .
The humorous articles in Alan Mar-
shall’s Pull Down the Blind (Cheshire),
illustrated by Noel Counihan, have been
reprinted from various newspapers in
Melbourne, Brisbane and Adelaide. They
are not in the class of his short stories
and travel books, but, of their kind, they
are remarkably good. They are slick,
compact, a trifle mechanical, and genu-
inely funny.
Mr. Marshall, like many a humorist
before him, makes himself into a kind of
domestic scapegoat. It is a fact, for
instance —not to be disclosed to the young
lest the institution of marriage be im-
perilled—that wives have been known to
snore; and this is distressing to sensitive
husbands. But then you turn in your
grief to Mr. Marshall’s article on “Are
You a Blanket-Dragger?” and you find
that the mythical Mr. Marshall, who is
the hero of all these sketches, has suffered
all you have suffered, and more, and
thereby you are comforted:
These Human of the bed can
be tolerated in the summer, but in the
winter they are impossible. It is no use
grabbing the edge of the blankets with the
intention of unrolling them with one mighty
heave. You will only succeed in pulling
them over to your half of the bed....
“Arm-swingers” are often very nice
people. I know two women who, accord-
ing to their husbands, are incurable Arm-
swingers. The clock is probably striking
two, and the husband is wondering why he
can’t sleep. Then it comes —Bang! And
he collects an open hand fair across the
mouth....
1 have never liked Snorers, although they
vary in their objectionableness. The
rhythmic, gentle Snorer is bearable, but
the Whistling-Bubble-blower!
Beware of the Kicker! I say it in all
sincerity—Beware of the Kicker! They are
as touchy as a young horse, and lash out
when you least expect it....
In the interests of suffering humanity
the mythical Mr. Marshall endures the
agony of catching a bus when no-one in
the house knows what time it arrives at
the nearest stop; he has a wife who
reads in bed when he wants to go to
sleep, which state he woos not by count-
ing sheep jumping over fences, but wives
jumping into wells ; he has visitors who
call at meal-times ; he mixes up his wife’s
shopping money with his own ; he is left
to watch the roast and he burns it; he
is called to dinner just when he is doing
something interesting and important; he
has guests who ruin his chairs by rocking
them; he has relatives who steal his
newspapers. And so on.
It is all a little vulgar; but then life is
a little vulgar, too.
Literary Handbook.
Rex Ingamells’s Handbook of A ustralian
Literature (Jindyworobak Publications;
Georgian House) consists of a short essay
on the development of Australian litera-
ture from Harpur to the present day ; a
tabulated chart designed to show at a
glance what significant developments
occurred in the “First Century,” the
’Nineties, the early Twentieth Century and
in “The Recent Years”; chronological
lists of writers of verse and fiction ; and,
finally, a selected reading-list compris-
ing novels, short stories, “Other Prose,”
verse anthologies, drama, criticism,
books of reference and periodicals.
The Red Page will never quite see eye-
to-eye with Mr. Ingamells concerning the
nationalist Jindyworobak movement
which he founded and upon which he
comments in the present booklet:
In verse the immediate period of Aus-
tralian literature is probably richer than
any hitherto. A stimulus came from the
appearance, in 1936, of a band of literary
enthusiasts who called themselves by the
Aboriginal name of Jindyworobaks; but
the Jindyworobaks concentrate upon the
writing and publishing of typically Aus-
tralian verse, in which local color and local
history predominate, and other groups of
writers have quickly sprung up to stress
other aspects of literature in Australia.
The points at issue are whether, except
for the Angry Penguins, there really have
been “groups” of- writers stimulated into
divergent courses by the Jindyworobaks,-
if this is what Mr. Ingamells implies;
whether far more significant work has
not been done by independent writers
such as Kegneth Slessor, Robert D. Fitz-
Gerald, Judith Wright and Francis Webb
than by the Jindyworobak poets whom
Mr. Ingamells mentions.; and, finally, the
extent to which one can admit as a poetic
stimulus a movement which emphasised
national values at the expense of artistic.
The question might be summed up: was
not Mr. Ingamells a better Jindyworobak
before he became a Jindyworobak?—
before he changed an Australian art into
an Australian propaganda;
If a source must be found for the
present vigor of Australian poetry, the
present reviewer would find it in Kenneth
Slessor’s “Five Visions of Captain Cook,”
which directed attention to historical
tfiemes, and in Robert D. Fitz Gerald’s
“Essay on Memory,” which threw out the
challenge of the long poem. Yet neither
of these landmarks could be said to in-
dicate the starting-point of Judith Wright’s
poetry, which is itself a source, any more
than the Jindyworobak movement, to
which William Hart-Smith contributed,
can really be said to have inspired his
Christopher Columbus, a poem quite out-
side the Jindyworobak themes of “the
aborigines and the outback.”
It would be preferable, therefore, to
find an origin simply in some core of
poetic vigor in the time, in the spirit of
the nation as a whole, in which the Jindy-
worobaks, like the independent writers,
have participated. And if the situation
is so regarded, the prominence Mr. Inga-
mells gives to the Jindyworobak. move-
ment in the notes on contemporary verse
and to the Jindyworobak Anthologies
among the periodicals is more appropri-
ate to a Jindyworobak manifesto than to
the detached survey one expects in a
Handbook of Australian Literature. Inci-
dentally, though The Bulletin is not in
need of publicity, it would be as well,
for the sake of accuracy, to mention,
as Enid Moodie Heddle did in Australian
Literature Now, this paper among the
“avenues through which Australian
writers of serious prose and verse today
find some scope for self-expression.”
But with the fundamental Jindyworo-
bak tenet, that, generally speaking, Aus-
tralian writers should write about Aus-
tralia and in an Australian idiom, no
critic in sympathy with The Bulletin
tradition could disagree; and it is pos-
sible that, by preaching and practising
nationalism, the Jindyworobaks have
indeed exercised some influence beyond
the confines of their movement. Both by
their ardor and their excesses of ardor
they may have helped to clarify the
course for those independent writers who
were responding to the same stirring of
national vigor.
Mr. Ingamells, whose viewpoint seems
to have deepened with the years, opens
his essay with the statement, “Australian
literature has behind it the wealthy
English tradition; its roots spread into
the classical and romantic past, and it
should continue to draw nourishment
from the whole world of scholarship and
creative art”; and while, like Enid
Moodie Heddle, he is chiefly concerned
with writing that expresses a distinctively
Australian outlook, he pays due tribute to
writers beyond the Jindyworobak move-
ment, whether a specific Australian
quality is present, absent, or elusive in
their work:
McCrae is the most successful of all
Australian poets dealing in exotic themes,
for his works effervesce in quaint and lively
fashion with creatures of classic mythology.
He has had the wisdom, however, not to
turn them loose in the primeval Australian
bush, as O’Dowd tried to do, and they dwell
in a dream-world which is McCrae’s own,
in which, however, there are indubitable
shafts of Australian sunlight.
Except that “daemonic” might be a
better adjective than “quaint,” that is an
admirable analysis of McCrae from a
nationalist viewpoint; and where his
special interests do not conflict with his
judgment, which happens seldom, Mr.
Ingamells’s criticism is admirable through-
out his essay: on Kendall, “His expres-
sion is ghostly with an instilled European
atmosphere, and his yearning after what
was lovely in nature did not find an Aus-
tralian voice” ; on For the Term of His
Natural Life, “It blossoms balefully from
a plenitude of melodramatic coinci-
dence, is marred by improbabilities, yet
commands unstinted admiration. Into
the story Clarke packs such an intense
drama of human suffering and endurance,
heroism and baseness, that it leaves an
indelible impression of emotional vast-
ness” ; on the balladists, “The work of
this period is often rough-and-ready verse,
yet there is fine poetry among it, earthy,
racy, poignant, humorous, all things by
turn, abounding in exuberance and
color”; on Brennan, “A considerable
scholar, a professor of languages and a
master of the technical aspect of verse-
making, he produced occasional power-
ful, exquisitely mournful lyrics, but, in
the main, there is no more thorough
example than his work of the European
outlook in Australian letters, and his
verse is characterised by endless echoes
of the sublimest achievements of Milton,
Wordsworth and other English masters.”
Mr. Ingamells may not be quite correct
when he denies tragic dignity to Richard
Mahony, but he is certainly right when
he finds that great noyel “exhausting.” If
a literary steamroller* ever existed it was
Henry Handel Richardson.
Having said recently that Enid Moodie
Heddle’s survey was too diffuse the Red
Page can hardly, with consistence, sug-
gest that Mr. Ingamells is too compact;
but a connoisseur of the Australian spirit
should surely have found room, at least,
for some discussion of Eve Langley and
Brian James; writers whom it is as un-
reasonable to neglect in this generation
as it would have been to ignore Furphy
and Henry Lawson in theirs. But with
these points noted, the Handbook should
be as useful as Mr. Ingamells hopes to
“many people whose interest in Australian
literature is awakening for the first time
and also, perhaps, to students following
the course at our Universities.”


"TRUTH
ADVERTISING"
mM\ HORDERNS’
S?
sssss
1
W.
i/."
■X.'
i > .
1
;X-
-.
■
■
'■ * i • •.'•'„'•■■*<
mm
X
I '
:X X
x
TSk
■
I
Y •■
V
r
m
■■ ■■'
mMi
m
\M£
ill
Xx
KM
4
n
■-iH'i.
s
v:,;
asr
! v;'
y Y :•'
m
SX :
;
in
HI
: - •• ~':
■. v : y
..'V
X
y
w
XX
MM
ji..;. •
V
/
fta
X
X
m
i
-'V
Dunlopillo Cushion for every purpose!
Any size Dunlopillo made to Order!
Dunlopillo can be cut in any size you want to fit either mattresses, chairs, window seats,
outdoor furniture, the nursery or the car. Dunlopillo is ideal because
its so soft, so cool and dustproof! Added to this, it is extremely economical!
ssasassa ■••• v • -w
Unillustrated:
Solid Sheet Dunlopillo:
i \ f 1 li inches deep
4/- 6/- 8/- 10/- 14/- per sq. foot
Cellular Dunlopillo: 2 4 inches deep
12/9 20/- per sq. foot
Code 6,16 f x 14 x 4in. Uncovered, 33/10
Code 37. 43 x x 4in. Uncovered, 94/4
Code 38. 43 x 21 x 4in. Uncovered, £5/1/6
Code 41. 36 x 36 x 2in. Uncovered, 91/9
Code 46. Bow front, 16| x 14| x 2in.
Uncovered. Priced at 19/1
Code 46. Tapestry covered. Price, ea., 30/11
Code 57. 18 x 18 x 2in. Uncovered, 23/11
Code 57. Tapestry covered. Price, ea., 37/6
Left.
Hospital cushion, code 62. Size 18in.
diameter, 6in. hole. Uncovered, price 26/4
Binlatex, 2|in, cellular rubber, 15in. x
17in. overall, as illustrated. Uncovered, 20/-
Un illustrated.
Code 58. 19 x 19 x Sin. Uncovered, 36/6
Code 112. 31| x 15| x 4in. Uncovered, 63/-
Code 74. 49|in. x 19|in. x 4in. Price, £5/7/10
Below.
Round Cushion is code 5. With diameter of
15in. Uncovered, 12/5; tapestry covered, 18/8
mm
km
m
m
w
“fl” shape Cushion , 29/5
Code 142. 17in. x 17in. x 3|in.
taper to 2|in. from back to
front. Uncovered, price, 29/5
Tapestry covered, price, 39/1
ŵ
Plough , Tractor Cushion
Uncovered. Price, each, 18/-
ẁ
Reversible Cushion
Code 150. 18in. x 18in. x sin.
Uncovered. Price, each, 25/7
Tapestry covered. Price, 42/3
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SADDLERY DEPT—LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET.
’PHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


ẃ


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3638
Wednesday, November 2, 1949
A BIT BACKWARD.
“You see, my boy—ninety-two into forty-six won’t go. You should have learned that in the High Court.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
IT „. _ ~ r , TW „, ------ „ _ ,
HEAD Sydney ;
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
CHIFLEY LIES IN WAIT.
Long before the Banking Bill went to
Parliament (in 1947) for consideration, it
was clear that the whole country was
opposed to the thing. The reasonable
suggestion that Mr. Chifley might submit
his proposals to a referendum was met
with a surly refusal. Then those whom he
wished to destroy naturally challenged
him in the courts. The High Court
upheld them, ruling unanimously that the
powers assumed to take over the manage-
ment of the trading banks were illegal,
and, by a majority, that Section 46 of
the Act was invalid under Section 92
of the Constitution, which deals with
inter-State trade and commerce.
Against all the weight of this reverse,
and against the “Labor” party’s prin-
ciples, Mr. Chifley appealed to the Privy
Council.
That body found not only that Section
46 specifically contravened Section 92
of the Constitution, in this instance, but
that, failing a certificate from the High
Court authorising the appeal—which the
Government would certainly have applied
for if it had thought it had a ghost of
a chance of getting one —the appeal had
no locus standi. It was, in effect, ruled
out of court before the argument even
started, and Dr. Evatt must have had a
pretty fair idea that this would happen.
The Government, however, should be
thankful that its disastrous defeat on
such a major issue, justifying every word
which the Opposition has said about the
Banking Bill, should come just as Par-
liament is reaching its end. Its Governor-
General, Mr. McKell, must be equally
thankful, for it is very difficult to see
how the Prime Minister could have
failed to tender his resignation if an
election had not been imminent, or how
the Governor-General could have done
his constitutional duty without making
him accept a double-dissolution.
In view of the fact that the large
Senate majority is involved in the same
scandalous flouting of public opinion, it
is a moot point whether there should not
be a double-dissolution even now, send-
ing the whole of the Senate to face their
masters as well as the members of the
House of Representatives.
The Government, speaking with the
voice of Dr. Evatt, says that it is now
convinced that “legislation for the
nationalisation of banking cannot be
made legally effective.” It also declares
that
at the next elections no issue can possibly
arise on the question of nationalisation of
banking in Australia. The only political
issue which can arise is whether the Bank-
ing. Act of 1945, which is now in practical
operation, should be interfered with.
Dr. Evatt and his Government will be
very quickly disillusioned on this matter.
Nationalisation of banking will not only
arise—it will be a main issue, if not the
main issue, at the election. The only
means by which “Labor” might exclude
the banking issue would be by throwing
over the whole of the “Labor” objective
and platform.
This objective, to which every “Labor”
member is pledged, calls for socialisation
of industry, production, distribution and
exchange—an objective born in Moscow
and forced on “Labor” in 1921 by a com-
mittee of Communists headed by J. S.
Garden.
In the forefront is a plan to give the
Commonwealth Parliament sovereign
powers, including authority to carve up
the States into provinces having only
delegated powers, to destroy the Senate
and the State Legislative Councils, to
abolish State Governors and to nation-
alise —for a beginning—banking, credit
and insurance, shipping, radio, transport
and sugar. A sinister clause in the plat-
form among all this sweeping Socialism
is one which calls for national cultural
and economic planning and “the train-
ing of workers and producers in the
management of industry.” It was made
quite clear when this was introduced that
it was to fit workers to carry out soviet
control of industry.
The whole scheme adds up to the
destruction of the Constitution and of all
Parliaments and their replacement by
one single Chamber, centred in Canberra,
with universal powers to make its own
constitution, to determine the franchise
on which it shall be elected and to hand
over industry to a series of boards con-
sisting of “trained workers” and “pro-
ducers” who would apply the Soviet
system. Credit, it is to be noted, will,
if the platform is carried out, be nation-
alised. And since it is impossible to
nationalise credit without nationalising all
credit—that of the old-age pensioner as
well as that of the banking “monopoly”
—the assurance which Mr. Chifley is
giving that there will be no general
socialisation is on its own face plainly
dishonest.
Dr. Evatt professes to see now that,
under the Constitution, it is impossible
for the Government to nationalise bank-
ing, credit or industry. But the sinister
thing is that though this knowledge, so
.far as industry is concerned, is nothing
new, the Federal and State “Labor”
parties continue to adhere to the socialisa-
tion objective and the platform designed
to provide methods for carrying it into
effect. They advocate it, sometimes with
the inference that, if a legal and
constitutional way of doing it cannot be
found, an illegal way will be.
Mr. Curtin, at the 1943 Federal A.L P.
conference, emphasised that industry
could not be constitutionally nationalised.
Yet at the 1945 conference of the Federal
A.L.P., Mr. West, M.H.A., of Western
Australia, who must have been fully
seized of the constitutional position,
moved “that conference urges the
Federal Parliamentary Labor party within
the limits of the Constitution to give
effect to the party’s policy of socialisa-
tion.” Mr. Calwell immediately moved
an amendment to delete the words “within
the limits of the Constitution” and to add
“when complete powers have been vested
in the Commonwealth Parliament.” Mr.
West’s motion was carried. Mr. Calwell’s
words were mild beside the outpouring
of Mr. Ward, who, on May 4, 1943, had
said, in Perth, that if “radical” Socialism
was not brought about after the war he
would not remain in public life, and that
when hostilities ceased “Labor” “should
resort to every means, constitutional and
otherwise, to bring these changes about.”
Mr. Chifley and his Ministers have
ceased to subscribe to the “Labor”
objective and platform only if they intend,
as they say they do, to go no further than
the nationalisation of an occasional
oppressive monopoly.
But if, as might be inferred from the
interpretations of Mr. Chifley and Senator
McKenna, and from “Labor’s” submis-
sion to trade-union Communist dictation,
the alleged deviation from socialisation is
reckoned to be so much empty wind, the
Prime Minister and his Federal president,
M. McAlpine, can, in a few days,
assemble a special Federal A.L.P. con-
ference capable of allaying public fears
by revising the platform and objective and
removing from them everything which
cannot be attained by constitutional
means.
Failing such a forthright expunging of
the socialisation objective from the plat-
form the issues of the election are per-
fectly clear. Not only will nationalisa-
tion of banking come up for full con-
sideration, but also all those things in
“Labor’s” plans for a “new order” which
are a corollary to it.
Devaluing Security.
The “great Socialist experiment” in
Britain has now obviously failed. There
is no other interpretation of the flounder-
ings of its managing-director, Stafford
Cripps, or of the latest wretched ex-
pedient promulgated by Mr. Attlee for
meeting the inflationary evils now vent-
ing themselves on the British people.
The interpretation of the British
economic crisis is quite simple. It is not
that Britain is down and out, though she
has had to recognise that her former
position of supremacy among the
nations has, for the present, passed
to the United States. It is not
that the British nation has shed its
character, its capacity to endure adversity
and fight back to recovery, however bitter
the prolonged post-war “austerity” after
the sacrifices of her people during the
war itself. It is simply that there is no
longer any confidence felt anywhere in
the capacity of the Socialist Government
to pull the country round the present
tight comer.
This absence of confidence is shown on
all sides —workers, employers and even
Ministers themselves.
British trade-unionists will not work
as though they believed in the Socialist
Welfare State for which they voted in
1945. The Crippsian appeals for more
man-hour output have been no more suc-
cessful than those of our own Socialist
leaders in Canberra. Over 12 months ago
Prime Minister Attlee’s own Adviser on
Public Relations, former editor of the
“Daily Herald,” wrote in his book, The
Triple Challenge, as the initial enthusiasm
waned: —
Because the most serious of all the
problems facing Britain is that of under-
production, nationalisation has so far
meant to the ordinary worker not, as he
expected, an easier time, but an appeal to
work harder than ever before —and with-
out much obvious compensation either in
increased control over his own destiny
during his working life.
This was precisely the theme of the out-
burst from the railwaymen’s delegate at
the recent Trade Union congress, when
he complained that nationalisation had
improved neither the railways nor the
railwaymen’s lot one bit. The railways
are only one example of a general
malaise.
Three months after the Budget came
the Cripps statement in July that imports
would be cut 25 per cent, to reduce the
dollar deficit. The comments of the
London “Spectator,” in which paper Mr.
Attlee’s Food Minister is a principal
shareholder, were fairly representative of
British Press opinion:
When the Chancellor has to announce
cuts in imports of machinery the point of
complete failure has been reached, It
makes no difference that he represents the
cut of 25 per cent, in dollar imports to be
“a thoroughly evil necessity”... .To cut
imports of machinery and raw materials is
to take away the tools without which
Britain simply cannot finish the job of
recovery.
On top of that, after swearing for the
ensuing three months that he would never
consent to devaluation of sterling, Cripps
went to Washington and consented.
Whereupon the Food Minister’s paper
again:
The keystone of economic reform at this
point is bound to be a cutting-down of
Government expenditure. Without it there
can be no possibility that the present
inflationary danger will be scotched, and
without an end to inflation there is no
sense in devaluing the pound if any
gain is to be wiped out almost immediately
by rising British prices.
The crowning evidence of no-confidence
is in the attitude and the statements of
the Socialist leaders themselves. This is
how Cripps spoke before the House of
Commons in late September on the
Washington decision;
At the end of the war we all thought
this was going to be easier than it turned
out to be in the economic sphere, and we
have been trying to deal with it by a series
of temporary expedients which have led to
a series of crises as each expedient was
exhausted. Now we recognise that this is
not enough.
It was not enough, Cripps said. De-
valuation provided merely an opportunity
for “the right action,” involving drastic
further economies and harder work by
everybody, '
Five weeks went by. He and other
Ministers kept up the tension with semi-
official prognostications of unprecedented,
“icy” austerity—slashings of Government
expenditure and of social services, a
longer working week, cuts in imports, in
food and in food subsidies. It was
assumed That the Government was going
the whole hog at last and must have time
to prepare something really spectacular—■
even perhaps go to the country with it
before their time was up. And what
happened? A miserable compromise of
minor retrenchments in expenditure given
out by Prime Minister Attlee as though
he were chucking away his last penny—
a string of insignificant economies,
abandonment of “some refinements of
control,” abrogation of “free” medicine
to the extent of a bob a bottle, a reduc-
tion of food subsidies which meant
passing so much Government expendi-
ture on to individual consumers unless
the consumers preferred to eat less —
nothing that ought not to have been done
at least a year before.
Cripps’s contribution to the resultant
debate was that manpower would be
immediately reviewed, and there would
have to be compulsory direction of
workers.
Why doesn’t Mr. Chifley tell these
brother-Socialists that Socialist economy
need not be like this? Why does not he
tell them how to meet a “recession”? But
tor the High Court, the Canberra outfit
would have been well entangled by now
in much the same mess as Britain’s; and
Mr. Chifley has been very angry with the
court, and with the people who voted
“No” at the last referendum, for thwart-
ing him. That has not prevented him and
his fellow-Socialists from pursuing in-
flation by other means, inflation being
the surest method of what they call
“socialising credit,” meaning depriving
citizens who have got it of their money—
gelding them, so to speak, as “profit-
seekers.” Without the British Socialists’
excuse, there is under Mr. Chifley’s
“social security” the same profligate Gov-
ernment expenditure, the same ruinous
taxation on industry, the same stagnation
of production under high costs, and now,
by deliberate Government action, the
forced reduction of essential imports, in-
eluding capital goods necessary if indus*
try is to do its job.
Signs of the wrath to come are already
evident in the runaway prices of com-
modities as the Chifley pound sinks in
value. The truth will hit this community
with the force of a brick when the col-
lapse comes in luxury overseas prices for
wheat and wool.
Mr. Chifley’s devaluation of the cur-
rency, in line with the Cripps operation,
has kicked the flagging prices of wool a
bit higher. The ultimate fall will there-
fore be the greater. It has also kicked, or
is about to kick, the price of petrol con-
siderably higher, too, which will send up
costs in all industries and services.
A question for the next “Security”
Loan quiz might be; If the Snowy River
scheme is estimated today to cost £2OO
million and to take 25 years to complete,
how much will it have cost if the Chifley
Government remains in power for 25
years?
Criticism Welcomed-
in small print.
When the true history of the Australian
Labor party is written it will be recorded
that during, the Eighteenth Parliament the
party forfeited all claim to be regarded
as the champion of the right of free
speech.
Apart from general use of the gag as a
means of curtailing debates—which, under
“Labor,” have become a mere formality,
since the Government consistently re-
fuses to accept any amendments to its
proposed legislation—it has also been
employed to prevent members making
statements which might prove embarras-
sing to “the party.” Mr, Lang has more
than once been the victim ; and on three
successive days during the last sitting Mr.
Spender was prevented from speaking, it
having leaked out that he was likely to
accuse the Government of intending to
stack the High Court. The Prime
Minister later told members who
objected that he didn’t see why
the House should be kept sitting late in
order to hear a speech which had already
been given to the Press. In view of
Chifley’s stock reply to questions regard-
ing newspaper reports —“I haven’t read
the partic’lar item referred to” —Spender
could not be blamed for wanting to make
sure his charge reached the Prime-
Ministerial ear.
Stifling of comment in the House is
but one side of “Labor’s” programme of
suppression; another is its policy to-
wards freedom of expression on the air.
Under its broadcasting legislation every
effort has been made to handicap
“Labor’s” critics.
The Government has no power to
muzzle the Press —yet. If it had, its broad-
casting legislation leaves no doubt that
something similar would have been con-
trived for newspapers. Mr. McGirr’s
three-day ban on political comment in
N. S. Wales is doubtless looked upon
with approval and envy by his freedom-
loving colleagues at Canberra. But if
papers can’t be controlled there are other
things which can, and “Labor” is out to
find them all. As an end-of-session effort
it clamped down on election posters,
ordaining that none should exceed 60
square inches in area. A similar rule
was brought in a few years ago as an
economy measure during the war-induced
paper shortage. The present edict makes
no such claim.
Sixty square inches is considerably less
than the area of an average sheet of
writing-paper. Such a limit is ridiculous
when it is considered —Menzies pointed it
out in the debate —that it is quite per-
missible to publish a full-page advertise-
ment in a newspaper occupying 384
square inches. And it is no offence to
put a lOin. by 6in. dodger in every letter-
box in the Commonwealth, yet a heavy
fine awaits the man who pastes up one
poster the size of a pocket-handkerchief.
Among the subsidiary arguments
trotted out to support the prohibition—
a “moneybags” story was the main one
—was the plea of Johnson, Minister for
the Interior, that the ban would prevent
“the unsightly scene of hoardings blot-
ting out the countryside,” and that of
Thompson (Hindmarsh, S.A.), that it
would give the people “the opportunity
of reasoning things out for themselves.”
Taken in conjunction with other suppres-
sive measures of the Eighteenth Parlia-
ment, it is clear that “Labor’s” concern
is not that posters might hide the beauties
of the countryside, but that they might
draw attention too clearly to the short-
comings of “Labor.” As to the Thomp-
son platitude—it might sound a little
more convincing if “Labor” did away
with “How-to-vote” cards, which are a
standing insult to the intelligence of every
elector who goes to the trouble of rea-
soning things out for himself.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Looking After the Boys.
Whatever the shortcomings of the
Chifley Government it can never be said
against it that it failed to look after its
own. Scarcely had the numbers gone up
after the last election than it began to
cast around for jobs for those of its
members who had fallen by the wayside.
A wave of the wand and off went Forde
to Canada; another wave and Breen
found himself in Cairo, Frost in
Colombo ; a few more passes, and the
rest of the rejects were safely back on
the public payroll.
The fallen attended to, the cases of
those who had come through unscathed
were considered. In recognition of the
self-sacrifice of those who had fought
hard for the privilege of making their
country’s laws at £IOOO a year they
decided to bump up members’ screws to
£ISOO, at the same time giving Ministerial
salaries a sympathetic kick. That took
care of things for the moment, but deep
thinkers in the party realised that after
the next election there mightn’t be suffi-
cient jobs to go round, also that the
filling of them might be in other hands.
The answer to this was the three-quid-a-
week-gets-you-eight pensions scheme.
Members felt very virtuous when they
thought of the £3 a week they were
paying into the pensions fund. But it
came out of the extra tenner they had just
given themselves and still left them seven
pounds a week better off than when they
pleaded with the electors to return them
to. Canberra.
All hands being thus looked after in
a general way, it was time to pass out
minor perks in the shape of trips abroad.
Even after Dr. Evatt’s passion for travel
had been assuaged there were sufficient
high-level conferences left over to enable
several Ministers to put the mind-broad-
ening qualities of foreign travel to a
severe test. For the rank-and-file, 1.L.0,
jaunts cropped up with joyous regularity.
It was from one of these that Stan Amour
returned with an alleged liking for twice-
used coca-cola bottles; from another
“Dorothy Dix” Daly, after being posted
as missing for some weeks, came home
with the nickname “Dollars.” It may
have been a coincidence, but there seemed
to be rather a slump in overseas trips
after that. Perhaps the end of the roster
had been reached—or the end of the
dollars.
With £ISOO a year and an assured re-
tiring allowance of £8 a week, a less
altruistic party than “Labor” would prob-
ably have felt that it had done enough for
the boys. But not the Chifley party.
Realising that while some members of
the outfit had safe seats others had every
reason to feel shaky about their ability
to hold the confidence of their electorate
indefinitely, some bright soul suggested
increasing the size of Parliament, thereby
providing safe seats for all. “Hansard”
doesn’t report it, but somewhere among
the unpublicised remarks on redistribu-
tion there is probably the comment that
anyone who couldn’t find himself a safe
seat among four dozen new ones wouldn’t
know enough to come in out of the rain.
Of course, electoral weather being such
an unpredictable commodity, a few are
bound to get wet no matter what pre-
cautions are taken, but they won’t be
able to say the party didn’t do its best
for them.
It continued to do its best right down
to the final sitting. The Budget held little
to give the average taxpayer cause to
smile, but there was one small concession
made —the allowable deduction for life-
assurance premiums or contributions to
a superannuation fund was increased
from £IOO to £l5O. It was not an item
which interested many people, since few
pay out £3 a week for such purposes.
Among those who do are contributors
to the Federal Parliamentary pensions
scheme. Just a coincidence, of course;
but a lucky one for the boys.
The Class-war Artists.
The Chifley-Evatt crowd are, on their
own say-so, going to respect the consti-
tutional limitations imposed upon their
programme of socialisation. To carry
out that programme official compulsion
of the interests directly affected and of
the public is required. The courts have
ruled emphatically against compulsion.
Socialist professions of submission to
these judgments don’t mean a thing.
Even while Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt
severally and together deny that they
propose to circumvent the courts they an-
nounce their plans for doing so. Or part
of their plans, perhaps. Of course they
mean to use compulsion. The “fight,”
announced before the court spoke,
against the doctors and against the
banks goes on. Since they can’t
dragoon the doctors under penalty of
legal prosecution, they will force com-
pliance, if they can, by propaganda and
arousing public animosity towards
those who will not come to the Socialist
heel at command. Every banker whose
cause has just been upheld by the Privy
Council is convinced that by “virile
competition,” as threatened, Mr. Chifley
means every class-war weapon he can use
to beat them into surrender.
“Bank-nationalisation is dead,” says
the plausible Evatt. The very fact that
he says so is the best evidence of the
opposite. As long as 12 months ago
Mr. Chifley promised his party that the
elections now at hand would be vital to
“Labor,” also dirty and violent.
This Canberra mob is devoted to the
class-war. It represents no longer a
party of national interests and purpose,
but of purely sectional purpose. Their
expert operator of class-war technique,
E. J. Ward, has declared that without
Socialisation “Labor” cannot function.
This being their sentiment, and prosecu-
tion of the class-war their avowed pur-
pose, nothing they say about their respect
for the society or its institutions they are
out to destroy should count for one
moment.
When the Communist union-leaders
were examined on their plea to be allowed
to purge their contempt of the Arbitration
Court they were required to swear that
henceforth they would respect the
court’s orders as superior to those of
union directives. They did so. The
assurances of their allies of the Socialist
political party that constitutional bars to
revolutionary legislation will henceforth
prevent action to implement the Socialist
objective are worth just about as much
as the Communist promises. The out-
standing feature of the Parliament just
expired was the persistent efforts of Mr.
Chifley and Dr. Evatt to get around every
popular decision against them at a refer-
endum.
McGirr's Ghost-trains.
As the first headers Went into the big
N.S.W, wheat crop —the estimate for the
State is about 80,000,000 bushels —and
while wheat from last year is still in
country silos, the McGirr Railway De-
partment was forced to announce that
it faced “the most critical period in its
history,” and that from Christmas on the
railways won’t be able to carry “the im-
mense volume of goods” offering.
It is, in effect, just another of the Mc-
Girr 40-hour-week chickens joining the
rest of the flock on the roost, and right
alongside of it perches the chicken of
McGirr complaisance on coal strikes.
The railways blame shortage of coal and
steel, which means lack of locomotives
and trucks, of rails and bridge-girders
and so forth, and loads must be lightened
and speeds cut down.
It comes at a bad time for Mr. Me-
Girr’s political friends in Canberra. Up
for election on December 10, they are
plainly flat out to get the wheat vote, and
since N.S.W. is the early-wheat State, it
seems the stuff is likely to be in dumps
at sidings and on farms and to stand
accusingly before every “Labor” vote-
hunter who penetrates the wheat country.
There will be the usual call for road
transport to take over. But what with
the petrol muddle and the McGirr road
tax and McGirr increases in registration
fees the road-transport men are unlikely
to feel generous towards “Labor.”
It is, perhaps, unfair to blame Mc-
Girr for all of it. After all, he has been
attending to the national interests in pro-
viding night trots and mid-week race-
meetings all around the city, and though
most of the country’s production troubles
trace straight back to his rush to beat
the barrier with the 40-hour week, the
failure of his railways is but part and
parcel of the general failure of Socialist
enterprises and the creeping paralysis
that affects pretty well all productive in-
dustry in Australia under Chifley.
Meantime the Railways Commissioner
appeals for the “co-operation of the
Wheat Board and farmers” in handling
the harvest. Maybe he should supply
them with a few thousand of Mr. Pol-
lard’s two-bushel bags and let them carry
the stuff to the seaboard as passenger’s
luggage.
Chifley Started the Run.
Mr. Chifley blames everybody but him-
self and his “Government” for the petrol
crisis. If he hadn’t started a “run on the
bank” in this essential transport fuel there
might have been no trouble.
He didn’t cease his spiteful propaganda
from the time of the prices referendum
campaign onwards, maintaining that only
continuing control of goods and prices
could prevent a shortage of the one and
an increase in the other. As soon as the
people rejected his referendum he turned
sour and bad-temperedly threw the
powers he was denied at the State Gov-
ernments. He prophesied confusion and
general woe, and he and his party worked
hard with their tongues to make those
prophecies come good—just to prove
themselves right.
No sooner had the High Court thrown
out petrol-rationing than the P.M.
w
THE DE GROOT SPIRIT RIDES AGAIN.
Mr. J. T. Lang, former N. S. Wales Premier, has suggested that the Commonwealth Government should take over responsibility for the Sydney
Harbor Bridge and abolish the bridge toll.”


ŵ
ag s
.Mi
mgms
II :
<1
sss
••--T
g *>
They satisfy
In every way «« .
CRAVENa
mack speeiaUv Ib
ẁ
.
G659E-TI
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOB QUALITY |
turned his bilious eye towards petrol.
There would be a shortage, there
would be a rush on petrol stocks, there
would be hoarding; and when he an-
nounced that he would be cutting petrol
imports by 25 per cent, to please the
British Socialist Government, Mr. Chifley
made a certainty of the run on the petrol
bank. It is easy enough for anyone in
his position to start a thing like that.
He has now confessed that his state-
ment about reducing petrol imports was
not true, or was such an alloy of the truth
as to be just as effectually a falsehood.
Announcing belatedly his Government’s
decision to draw £2O million dollars from
the International Monetary Fund Mr.
Chifley reiterated that the July conference
of British Commonwealth Socialist
Ministers in London had agreed each
to cut dollar imports by 25 per cent.
He now says;
However, a full 25 per cent, saving in
expenditure on dollar imports into Australia
will not be possible in 1949-50 because of
the commitment represented by outstanding
licences involving serious damage to our
economy.
The serious damage has been done, all
right, and it has been done by the Gov-
ernment itself through its ruinous pro-
gramme of socialisation, introduced with-
out even a warrant from the electorate,
and through its desperate shifts to put the
blame on somebody else. This socialisa-
tion gang is running the country into
ruin here as surely as its opposite num-
bers overseas are bringing national bank-
ruptcy on Britain. They are not only in-
competent bunglers ; they are impostors.
Mr. Chifley’s shifty behavior over the
“decision to cut dollar imports”
proves it.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Eighteenth Parliament came to an
end on Monday, and Australia’s most
calamitous Government put up the shut-
ters and hung out a sign “Closed for
Stocktaking.” If the electors do their
job intelligently the next sign will be
“Under New Management.”
Hardest-worked man in the dying hours
of the 18th Parliament was W. J. Scully,
Minister for the Gag. Unkind critics
suggested he was working his passage
from Gwydir to London.
Hodgson, retiring Australian Ambas-
sador to France, complained at the week-
end that his successor had not been
appointed, and ffiat there was no High
Commissioner in London or mission-
head at The Hague. Hodgson’s a bit
impatient. All posts will be filled after
December 10.
During the interval between the Privy
Council’s “No” on the Bank appeal and
the publication of its reasons there should
have been plenty of time for “Labor” to
talk things over so that they could all
speak with one voice. Instead, Parlia-
ment came to an end with the boys
speaking in divers tongues and trying hard
not to commit themselves. Evatt rushed
in first with an almost joyous shout that
“at the next elections no issue can pos-
sibly arise on the question of national-
isation of banking.” But it can, and will.
Chifley sat back and said nothing for a
few days. Then he announced that the
Evatt statement had been made after
consultation with him. Dedman’s
contribution was that “the Govern-
ment could not proceed with the
nationalisation of banking as originally
intended,” and in the Senate McKenna
said:
. I find it difficult to conceive any activity
in the Commonwealth which the Common-
wealth could, in fact, nationalise having
regard to the decisions of the superior
courts of Australia.
“Fixer” Ashley entertained no such
doubts. He told the Senate:
If this Government is returned to office
next year and if any industry is brought
to notice for exploiting the people, then
this Government will see that that industry
is nationalised.
It’s a mixed chorus all right; the boys
will have to get together and learn their
words better before they start campaign-
ing in earnest.
Commenting on the Privy Council
decision on the Bank Grab and possible
“Labor” moves resulting from it, the
London “Times” says “the straight-
forward course would be to attempt a
constitutional amendment” —in other
words, a referendum on banking. Being
half a world away the “Times” cannot
be expected to know that the course of
Australian “Labor” is never straight-
forward.
Petrol will be an election issue. Some
motorists might have forgiven Chifley
for rationing it, but from the moment
the Prices Ministers bunged another
a gallon on the price, with the addendum
that devaluation will “almost certainly”
add another he was assailed with
demands to cut 3|d. off the a
gallon he takes in petrol tax. So far
Chifley has resisted all such demands,
' just as he’s resisted appeals to apply the
petrol-tax money to its proper use —
maintenance and building of roads.
Menzies and Fadden have taken the
petrol-war right into Chifley’s camp with
their joint undertaking that if elected to
power they will make it their first busi-
ness to fill Australia’s petrol requirements
without rationing. If Ampol’s shipment
of French petrol clears Europe on
schedule on November 10 the Govern-
ment will have to do some furious think-
ing. Five million gallons may not be
very much, but if the same quantity
could be guaranteed every month the ex-
cuse for rationing would be gone.
Petrol coupons issued this month will
cover the period to the end of January.
If Chifley is the straight-dealer his build-
up men are trying to pass him off as and
not the double-shuffler his opponents
allege him to be, he will tell the public
what is going to happen after that. And
he will tell them now.
Defending the Government’s coal-
strike policy, Chifley told his followers
at a party dinner in his honor: “1 do not
know one member of the party who dis-
agreed with the action we took.” The
report that at this stage Eddie Ward
nearly swallowed a watermelon and had
to be revived by a hearty slap on the
back from Calwell has not been con-
firmed.
During the next few weeks “Labor”
men will have to answer quite a lot of
questions about their attitude on socialisa-
tion. No doubt, taking their cue from
the Prime Minister, most of them will
hedge and try to convey the impression
that the party has watered down its
objective. If they do they should be
asked whether they have signed the
A.L.P. Parliamentary candidate’s pledge
which concludes with these words:
I also pledge myself to actively support
and advocate at all times the party’s
objective—the socialisation of industry,
production, distribution and exchange.
No “Labor” candidate will be able to
deny that he has signed that—split in-
finitive and all.
Chifley, chewing the leek, says, “On
the Privy Council judgment we can’t
nationalise banks; so as it cannot be
done constitutionally, it cannot be done
at all.” To this “Labor’s” own official
journal adds: “The decision not only
rubs out the Government’s banking plans,
but rules out nationalisation of coal,
steel, insurance and other inter-State
activities.”
But Chifley still says that if there is any
industry which (in his opinion) is exploit-
ing the people, he will nationalise it. On
the Chifley attitude to the P.C. judgment,
however, he can’t do that either. Nor
can he carry out the “Labor” objective
to socialise all “industry, production,
distribution and exchange.” Chifley has
also said none of these things can be
done without altering the Constitution.
The only way by which he can alter the
Constitution is to win a referendum, and
he has refused to hold a referendum be-
cause he knows he couldn’t win it.
Along with the record of Chifley’s
defiance of electoral opinion in the
1947-49 effort against the banks, all this
shows just how little any political declara-
tion by Chifley is worth.
The great national event having been
decided at Flemington yesterday there
may be a better chance for the starters
to attain some sort of favoritism for the
lesser event on December 10.
What idiocies are uttered in the name
of helping ex-servicemen! McGirr has
modified the ban on mid-week racing,
meetings being now permissible outside
a 40-mile radius from Sydney G.P.O. in-
stead of 70. The “industry” is naturally
bucked at the alteration, and the president
of the N. S. Wales Trainers’ Association
is reported as saying that the move will
“help to rehabilitate ex-servicemen.
When many of these men went to the
war, all they knew was the training of
racehorses, and there was nothing else
to which they could turn their hands
when demobilised.” It is a sad picture
—all those poor fellows whom the Army
taught nothing and to whom the C.R.T.S.
had nothing to offer, tramping the streets
for four years since the war’s end in a
fruitless search for a horse to train.
Surely McGirr deserves a hearty vote of
thanks for his fine gesture towards their
rehabilitation?
Dickson, M.L.A. for Temora (N.S.W.),
has quoted a letter from the Ganmain
district complaining that of 175 railway
trucks ordered for chaff in one week re-
cently only seven were supplied. Transport
for 450 tons of chaff a week had been
ordered for the Temora district; trucks
for only 100 tons a week had been sent. A
Wagga firm which delivers sand and
gravel had had to cancel orders two years
old through inability to get enough trucks,
Dickson added that trucks were being
used on the Sydney-Newcastle line to
carry goods (including empty beer-
barrels) which could be carried by sea.
Cripps has provided in Britain the
answer to Australian Socialists who pre-
tend that “full employment” under the
Socialist plan does not mean conscription
of workers in emergency or a depression.
Cripps said in the House of Commons
debate on the Attlee Government’s re-
trenchments to meet the dollar crisis
that there will be a complete review of
manpower:
Workers must be prepared for a switch
in their jobs. No one can now be guaran-
teed work in his own job—or even in his
own trade. To insist upon rigid main-
tenance of the present pattern of employ-
ment would be to destroy all hope of full
employmenf.
In other words, a man will take any job
the Government directs him to take or
he will go without any job.
Cabled reports of General Franco’s
attendance at a Portuguese bullfight—no
killing, no blood spilt, bull’s horns padded
with cotton-wool and so forth —gave the
impression that the Spanish leader thought
it a poor show compared with the sport
as practised in his own country. It’s all
a matter of what you’re accustomed to.
Australians, for instance, would not have
been in the least disappointed; if the
cabled reports were a fair summary
Portuguese bullfights must be the dead,
spitting image of the sort of war-to-
the-death “Labor” has been waging
against the Commos for years.
Another crazy strike was “settled” on
the northern coalfields last week after one
colliery had lost 11 days and a couple
of others two each. Proclaimed cause
was the quality of sand used in the boxes
of underground locomotives. Elrington
miners claimed that the local sand used
was dirty and dangerous ; they demanded
the substitution of beach sand, and when
this was refused went on strike. After
nine days two more pits took up the cry.
Then came the inevitable conference, at
which a “compromise” was agreed to.
Experts from the Joint Coal Board and
the Mines Department agreed that the
sand was safe and usable. In any in-
dustry run on logical lines that should
have been the end of the matter, but
that is where the compromise came in.
The management agreed to withdraw the
sand objected to and to use clean local
sand on half the engines and beach sand
on the rest. It all’ probably makes sense
if you look at it through the wrong end
of a telescope.
“M. 8.”: It is greatly to be regretted
that owing to the cutting-off of the broad-
cast of the inaugurating ceremony of the
National University after the Ministers
had spoken, listeners were not privileged
to hear Robert Garran. Australians
should have heard the voice of one to
whose lifelong devoted and distinguished
service they owe so much.
Gilbert wrote one of his “Bab Ballads”
about a damsel who sent her devoted
swain on a world-wide quest to find out
who it was who wrote the mottoes for
Christmas crackers. He unearthed him
at last in a baker’s shop. If that baker
is still in the game he has a serious rival
in Stafford Cripps. Anthony Eden said
of Cripps’s latest austerity speech that it
contained “pious exhortations, which
were extremely welcome, completely in-
disputable, and might serve very well as
mottoes to be drawn out of a Christmas
cracker.”
Calwell’s department of Immigration
puts out a small monthly paper, “To-
morrow’s Australians,” reviewing the
activities of new arrivals and the steps
being taken to facilitate their absorption
into the community. In the Reps, last
week Ryan, Opposition member, drew
attention to the fact that in the latest
issue Calwell’s name appeared 21 times in
eight pages, plus a photograph of the
Minister. Calwell denied that this meant
he was seeking publicity ; the reason his
name appeared so often was “because
it was necessary. The publication had to
print, for the information of migrants,
every policy statement he made.” Arthur
may not be seeking publicity, but the
boys who write his paper certainly see
that he gets it.
Greg McGirr, who was N.S.W. Minister
for Motherhood in the early 1920’5, died
last March and his estate cut up for
£215,000-odd. Pubs, chemist-shops and
sheep-lands made up most of it. N.S.W.
Premier McGirr is a brother. Hasn’t the
Premier been heard to talk about “vested
interests” at times —especially (in squeal-
ing tones) after defeat at the polls?


FIRST IN 1888
No other Battery can match . . .
w
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years’ Experience
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.,
44 BRIDGE STREET,
SYDNEY
XA9.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Ampol’s W. G. Walkeley, the high-
octane thorn jabbing at the sensitive pre-
election hides of rationers, was a young
Maoriland accountant when he first began
hammering at the North Island Motor
Union for more action on petrol—then
it was for cheaper juice. Young Walkeley
thought (be it said, with testy contradic-
tion from more experienced members of
the Union) that auto, clubs should enter
the petrol business and so reduce prices
to members. He talked the Auckland
Automobile Association round, then
several other clubs, formed a petrol com-
pany, and, lo! the thing paid. His
appetite whetted, Walkeley crossed the
Tasman and in 1938 formed the Aus-
tralian Motorists’ Petrol Co., Ltd., roping
in a 23-year-old accountant from Coota-
mundra. Now the Cootamundra man,
W. M. Leonard, is general-manager, and
Walkeley managing-director, of a com-
pany which talks in millions of gallons.
Studied here by Dubois, R. M. Berndt,
the young Sydney anthropologist who,
with his wife, has been for the past 18
months studying Binghi in the wild coun-
try of north-east Arnhem Land. What
they found by unobtrusive but insistent
probing into tribal rites has been on
exhibition in Sydney. The combination
proved extremely.valuable when, for in-
stance, tribal females shied off R.M., but
opened their minds to the sympathetic
ANTHROPOLOGIST.
approaches of Mrs. Berndt. Working
from a mission-base on the Gulf, the pair
trekked inland to various tribes, lived in
their camps, learnt the language, and
finally unearthed those wooden sculptures
carved in the round which, to the en-
thusiasts, more than repaid their 18-
months’ effort. Binghi, for his part, knew
well what they were up to, expected their
researches to result in better conditions
for himself, and appreciated that their
recordings would perpetuate tribal tradi-
tions for the young Binghi of coming
generations who, though enlightened in
civilised living, might not be so erudite
regarding his own ceremonial. The
Berndts have had seven years of field-
work, and will shortly head north for
more.
As modest as they’re met, U.S. author
James Michener, winner of last year’s
Pulitzer Prize with his Tales of the
South Pacific, is in Sydney looking
us over for a few months ; what he finds
he’ll record in the American magazine
“Holiday.” Michener was hereabouts
with the war-time U.S. Navy; what he
then noted is in the Tales, a version of
which has been staged on Broadway. A
professor at Colorado University, and
later Harvard, Michener wrote textbooks
for (he Macmillan publishing house
before Pearl Harbor sent him travelling.
Another of his novels, The Fires of
Spring, set in his native Pennsylvania, is
doing as well as his first.
Mountbatten of the Kelly goes from
the famed Ist Cruiser Squadron to a new
appointment, gazetted last week—Fourth
Sea Lord. Here, among the shades of
England’s naval heroes, he will sit in that
sacrosanct of holies, the Admiralty Board
Room.
A pioneer passes:
One of the last links with Queensland’s early
settlement snapped when Robert Milson died
in Sydney last week after a full 93 years.
Descendant of that James Milson who
providored windjammers from his establishment
on Sydney’s Milson’s Point in the early 1800’s,
Robert was 14 when, in 1870, he saddled-up for
his uncle’s Burburgate sheep-station, near
Gunnedah (N.S.W.). That trail was to lead,
10 years later, through all the hardship of
breaking an untamed land into fruitful sub-
servience, to managership of Springvale station
in western Queensland, the second out there to
bore for artesian water. But the Milson story—
which is part of the State’s history—began in
1848, when James Milson, following Leichhardt’s
favorable report on his 1846 survey, started
from the Dawson River, reached the Peak
Range and, with Gordon Sandeman, formed
the famous Wolfgang run. Twenty-seven years
later it sold for £llO,OOO. Round those parts
roamed Frank Gardiner, the bushranger, and
one of the west’s finest bushmen, Harry Red-
ford, both immortalised by Rolf Boldrewood.
With Wolfgang settled, Hamilton Milson
(Robert’s brother), then 20, was instructed to
take over 600 sq. miles on the Aramac and
form Coreena station. This he did, droving
3000 head of cattle; nine years later, in 1881,
the station, then running 42,000 sheep, brought
£lOO,OOO, The year before, this dauntless family
bought Springvale, and Robert, now 24, drove
the first stock there from Coreena. He de-
veloped that vast untracked acreage into one
of the finest cattle-stations in the west. Robert
died in Sydney’s Double Bay, a finely mettled
character typical of that outback breed, hard,
shrewd ahd impatient in good times, but patient
and resourceful in flood or drought; maintain-
ing a certain reserve, but ready to help without
stint when needed, and carrying to the end
the dignity and presence which so often comes
out of loneliness.
Promotions in Queensland last week
gave Francis Fahey, the State’s most
decorated policeman, his sub-inspector-
ship. In 1930 Fahey met a criminal
brandishing an automatic in .the bar of
the Breakfast Creek Hotel and threaten-
ing to shoot the place up. The marksman
started on Fahey, who, missed at close
range, chased his man along the street,
missing six more shots, one of which a
civilian stopped. The gunman got six
years’ hard, and Fahey his King’s Medal.
The Police Medal resulted from tackling
a burglar after he had slashed Fahey’s
face with a butcher’s knife.
The 1950 Lord Kemsley scholarship for
fostering exchange of British journalists
was won in Maoriland by J. P. Kennedy,
of the Christchurch “Star-Sun.” It takes
him to the Old Country for a year study-
ing newspaperdom and the political,
economic and social life there and on
the Continent.
“King’s Pawn”: Fitted into Maori-
land’s Centenary Celebrations next year
will be the first British Commonwealth
chess championship; such a contest has
been talked about for years. As N. S.
Welshman Lajos Steiner beat British
champion R. J. Broadbent in the recent
London versus Sydney match, he is, un-
officially, the Empire’s leading player. But
Steiner lost a good deal of working time
on his last year’s trip to Europe, and may
not cross the Tasman. In that case the
Australian representative may be C. J. S.
Purdy, a very worthy substitute who
divides his filial affection between M.L.
and Australia, having spent his infant
years in the former and being schooled in
the latter. World-recognised as a great
player, he was N.S.W. champion while
still at school.
Passed on in Dunedin (M.L.), W.
Downie Stewart, M.P. for Dunedin West
for 20 years and Cabinet Minister for 12,
Mayor of Dunedin in 1913, and writer
of historical and social-science books. Of
him Philip Snowden said: “The ablest
and best-informed man I met in New
Zealand.” In 1915 Stewart went overseas
with the Otago Battalion, but was in-
valided out. When the Forbes-Coates
Ministry decided, in 1933, to raise the
exchange rate Stewart recorded his pro-
test by resigning. He was co-author with
the American, Professor Le Rosseignol,
of State Socialism in New Zealand, in
1911, and wrote the preface to the English
translation of Andre Siegfried’s Demo-
cracy in New Zealand. Two biographical
works, the lives of William Rolleston
and Francis Dillon Bell, stand to his
credit. He was 71.
“R.N.C.”: With Melbourne University
creating two new professorships in the
faculty of dentistry, Dr. W. J. Tuckfield,
senior demonstrator on the dental school
staff for 30 years, steps into that of
Prosthesis, and Dr. C. H. Down, sub-
Dean of the faculty, to that of Conser-
vative Dentistry. Counting Professor
Arthur Amies, Dean of the faculty, the
dental school is now the only one in
Australia with three professorships. All
three holders own to the major degree,
D.D.Sc., of their own school, with Amies
a graduate as well in medicine (Edin.) and
F.R.A.C.S. Amies and Tuckfield also
claim the coveted F.D.S.R.C.S. (Lond.).
Captain Peter Taylor, in Sydney
with the 8.1.5.N.’s newest all-mod.-cons
freighter Carpentaria, has his own ideas
about a blue-water sailor’s recreation.
When he can’t play cricket —and it would
take a sizeable blow to stop him, as part
of Carpentaria’s equipment is a cricket-
pitch on the port side of the officers’ deck
—he dabbles at better-than-average oil-
painting. In the cricket line he once
captained the Sussex second eleven, and
has considerable repute as a slow bowler ;
as for painting, he admires Dobell, and
thinks surrealists need medical attention.
He knows, as well, a bit about seafaring
—he’s had 42 years of it, and com-
modores the line.
Major-General L. R. LaFleche, new
Canadian High Commissioner in Aus-
tralia (sketched here by Heth), can be
set down as a genial and easy-to-meet
diplomat, a cosmopolitan politician on
club-terms with the big names in
Canadian politics, an economist as bright
as a new dollar and, withal, a fighter of
both wars who led a company of that
famed 22nd Battalion of Canadians which
left most of its members behind at Ypres.
General LaFleche came out of that war
with D.S.O. and a “mention,” and severe
wounds (at Mount Sorrell in 1916) which
surgery gave up, but which his own
determination to live conquered. Having
a leaning for public service, he rose to
the Deputy-Ministership of the Depart-
ment of National Defence ; when World
War II broke he shipped back to France
HIGH COMMISSIONER.
as Canadian Military Attache (his coun-
try’s first) and served with the French
armies under Weygand till the collapse.
LaFleche finished the war in Canada,
a Privy Councillor and Minister of
National War Services, entered politics
through Outremont, in Quebec, and
diplomacy through the Greek Ambas-
sadorship in 1945. He was in Greece
when appointed to Canberra.
When Mcßeath tracked down Anthony
Quayle, director of the Shakspeare
Memorial Theatre Co., now touring Aus-
tralia, he found him wearing an outsize
in pipes, a parting gift from Ralph
Richardson, and reading that actor’s
cabled good wishes and warning about
opening beer-bottles—“ Remember you’re
upside-down.” The artist met the co.,
and reckons they could go on tour with
Jimmy Sharman. Quayle, now 36, with
six years in the Army, ending with his
majority and a special gong from the
Italians for rescuing some of them from
SHAKSPEARIAN.
the Germans after the capitulation ; Pat
Donald, stage-manager and one-time
colonel of marine commandos; Harry
Andrews, ex-London and Scottish Regi-
ment and veteran of Dunkirk ; Michael
Bates, a tough captain of Gurkhas ; and,
in this company, though hardly of it,
Diana Wynyard. Quayle started in 1939
as a stooge to a London music-hall
comedian, at the same time studied
dramatic art at the Royal Academy,
shifted to the Old Vic, then New York,
has written a brace of books, is sending
back articles to London newspapers, and
considers his greatest compliment was that
Mcßeath mistook him for a cocky down
for the races.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 85, J. T. Noble Anderson,
a County Antrim man well to the front in
Australian civil-engineering; he had learned
theory at Ireland’s Royal University and prac-
tice in the vast shipbuilding yards of Belfast.
In 1921 he was appointed engineer to Richmond
(Melb.) and left his mark there in an extensive
programme of street- and bridge-construction.
In Brisbane, at 83, Alexander Campbell
Wishart, good fellow and keen yachtsman;
member of the Royal Queensland Yacht Club
since 1901 and life-member at the end. He
leaves his name on the chart —a coral reef was
named for him after he had gone to the Reef
with an expedition some years ago.
Near Coolibah station (N.T.), in a crashed
Dragon Rapide, Captain Colin Johnston, a
war-time R.A.A.F. instructor in Tasmania and
Deniliquin (N.S.W.), before he put theory into
practice in Beaufighters operating from Morotai.
His peace-time flying ranged from dusting grass-
hoppers round Mildura in Beauforts to flying-
doctor missions in the Territory.
In Kyneton (Vic.), Colonel J. F. Humphris,
who won the D.S.O. in the Boer War and had it
pinned by Edward VII. In the next war he
was camp commandant at Broadmeadows; and
as Deputy-Commissioner of Repatriation in
Hobart maintained his Digger contacts for 18
years.
In Sydney, at 62, C. J. Bellemore, who started
an Arbitration Court messenger-boy and ended
State Prices Commissioner, after his war-time
Dep.-Directorship of Manpower. He had had
previous unforgettable experience of dealing
with fellow-humans —when manager of the
State Labor Exchange he saw the depression
at its worst, with about 100,000 people needing
sustenance and his job to see that they got it.
At Chatswood, N.S.W., William Blair
Stephens, a rubber-planter in Malaya for 27
years, and once honorary secretary of the
Taiping Club. In Australia he was secretary of
Mosman Golf Club and later of Bowral Golf
Club. He was often in evidence when the
Customs required expert assistance in dealing
with smuggling and prohibited immigration in
the Port of Sydney.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS'
“Bo”: What I like about so many
“Labor” politicians is the airy manner
in which they talk of launching schemes
which run into figures of the value of
which they haven’t the least conception.
But the peculiar thing about these
grandiose schemes is that the higher the
figure they name as a prerequisite to their
starting the further into the dim and
distant future do the schemes drift. A
good instance was the Greater Sydney
scheme with its “green belt” and its
satellite towns. This constellation was
born in an expensive blaze of glory. The
great arterial highways, tree-lined, magni-
ficent, matching Paris’s Champs-Elysees,
were greatly impressive. In such schemes
master-plans—they are as vital and have
the same value to a “Labor” politician
its inky fluid has to an octopus—are
are plentiful as will be the new petrol-
coupons for the blackmarketeers. But
nobody but a congenital idiot would even
hope that any of the great arterial high-
ways of the scheme will materialise this
side of 20 years, if ever. It seemed, when
a modest sum like £lOO,OOO was first
mentioned, that there was hope for the
mooted car-park plan for Sydney. The
latest figure mentioned is over £BOO,OOO.
With that sum the scheme has reached
the heights of thin air, into which it will
“I wonder if you'd open this tin ?”
inevitably disappear. When someone
mentions something like £25,000 as the
basis for it Sydney motorists will begin
at last to see a ray of hope,
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Chester’s tombstone at
Kirkham Lane, near Camden (N.S.W.),
is not the only one erected over the
grave of a Melbourne Cup winner (B.
i!9/10/’49). The grave of Peter Pan, winner
of two Cups, is marked by a headstone
at Baroona, Singleton ; so is Nimblefoot’s
near Myrniong (Vic.). Malua’s at Ballan
(Vic.) is another. Though Shadow King
never won a Melbourne Cup, he was
placed four times and certainly deserves
the monument erected behind the stables
at Bundoona (Vic.) police stud-farm.
Many other horses have monuments over
their graves, perhaps the most sentimental
inscription being that over the grave of
a hunting horse at Disputed Plains
(N.S.W.). It reads: “Here lies Alick, the
son of Sirius, a champion hunter in many
contests, with never a swerve or balk.
As he lived, so he died—game. Then
put the Golden Sliprafls down and let old
Alick in.”
* * * *
“Tidapa”: At Perth Royal Show I
managed to dodge most of the sideshows,
but I couldn’t resist the invitation to see
the mermaid for a bob. Sight of her
took me back many years ago to a
George-street, Sydney, sports-goods store
where, pushing my way through a crowd,
I was confronted with a peculiar-looking
beastie which a placard described as a
rare “Manchu Man-fish,” its habitat being
the eastern waters of the Chinese coast,
where it had the reputation of living
solely on the flesh of female children
cast into the Whang-po by disgruntled
mothers who had expected a man-child.
The Manchu Man-fish is a really clever
piece of work; it entails the joining
together of the lower half of a large fish
and the upper half of a monkey, the
monstrosity then being smoked and
varnished. In earlier times specimens
were sold to gullible seamen who took
them to Europe, where they were exhibited
as positive proof that mermen, if not
mermaids, actually existed. Even 20 years
ago it was possible to buy a small speci-
men of these deceptions in any bazaar
between Singapore and Shanghai.
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: Neville Cardus’s
cow of a bull (B. 19/10/’49) reminds me
of a classic not heard for so long that
it may be forgotten. The tourist in
Ireland thought he Would take a rise out
of a countryman by asking if there were
any Irish bulls about. Paddy, puzzled,
scratched his head. “In the field beyant
ye’ll foind six cows lying down; the
wan of them that is standing up is a
bull,” he said, I still regard as an excel-
lent example of the bull the words of an
Irish-Australian who started an address
to his employees on absenteeism with
“Looking about me I see a number of
faces that are not here; what I have to
say applies particularly to those who are
absent, and I hope they will listen atten-
tively and make a note of every word.”
* * * *
“H.W.M.”; In London the Registrar
of the National Archives is campaigning
against the craze for making lampshades
from old parchments, saying that every
such lampshade tears a small rent in the
history of England. Years ago Mel-
bourne people interested in preserving
old parchments and historic documents
were much perturbed when it was reported
that in clearing out its offices a firm of
solicitors had sent to the incinerator
papers and documents relating to the
evidence taken in Australia concerning
the Tichborne trial. There was another
outcry in London, in 1936, when stacks
of parchment indictments, including
records of criminal trials in the seven-
teenth century, were taken from the
vaults of the Old Bailey and destroyed by
order of the court. Officialdom seems
to have no sense of history.
* * * *
“Exdig”: A large number of com-
paratively young ex-servicemen of World
War II suffer from varicose veins ; the
prevalence of what used to be regarded
as a middle- and late-life malady is made
more significant when, in a military
hospital, the high proportion of patients
being treated for this trouble is noticed.
The cramping of the legs in various
engines of war, from jeeps and trucks to
aeroplanes, may be a reason. In the first
war, even in the least roomy trenches,
men had room to stretch their legs, and
they were given plenty of circulation-
“Make it snappy—I've got a date!"
promoting exercise in long marches.
Some of the present victims tell me that,
linked with various transport services,
they seldom used Shanks’s pony.
* * * ♦
“Gee”; “W.P.T.” (B. 5/10/’49) should
follow the route of the Western Mail
(s.w.-Q.) if he wishes to forage for lost
articles. Gangers along the line are con-
tinually picking up goods dropped or
thrown from train windows. • Once they
found bits and pieces at intervals of
approximately a mile which, when
assembled, proved to be a complete
thermos with six folding cups, fitting into
each other and forming the top. The
only missing part was the cork; they
reckon whoever had laid the trail, must
have swallowed that. But their most
startling find was a toddler, miles from
anywhere. Just as they were at their wits’
end wondering what to do with him, a
train came shunting back and a tearful
mother reclaimed the nipper. The train
had halted at a water-tank, and, before
it had gained speed again, the child had
either climbed or-fallen out on the grass
beside the line. He had not been missed
immediately, and by the time the train
had been searched and it was established
that he wasn’t on board they had covered
20 or 30 miles. The driver agreed to
shunt slowly back until they found the
boy.
♦ ♦ * *
“Simon”: That barbecue steer (B.
12/10/’49). It is hoped that the barbe-
cuers knew some of the peculiarities of
the business. In 1920 at the Mudgee
(N.S.W.) celebrations a bullock roasted
whole was put into cold storage piping-
hot in preparation for the great event on
the morrow. When they took it out it
was much overdue for burial. It appears
that cooked meat should be cold before
it is put in the fridge, otherwise it soon
goes bad,
* * * *
“Isa Lei”: In a S.A. country town
there’s a fiver waiting for the bloke who
can put on a gaberdine overcoat and
wear it snugly; the catch is that the
overcoat was constructed for an outsize
of outsizes. It belonged to a Marrabed
farmer who died three years ago. He was
6ft. Sin. and weighed 35 stone. Five
people are able to shelter inside the coat.
Anyone interested will find the garment
at the Marrabel Hotel.
♦ * * *
“Young Slim”: Unk White’s cartoon
depicting an irate husband sawing the
connubial couch asunder (B. 12/10/’49)
reminds of the postmaster and lineman
at a lonely township on W.A.’s nor’-west
coast. They were joint-owners of a
rowing-boat from which they caught
m'any a haul of fish. At first everything
went well, but after years of seeing only
themselves and passing motorists the in-
evitable arguments cropped • up, and
finally neither would allow the other to
use the boat. With grim deliberation
they decided to split the boat up, which
they did with a saw, from bow to stem
along the keel. The two halves are still
lying around, one half in the postmaster’s
yard, the other in the lineman’s.
♦ * * ♦
“P. Penwiper”: “Dalmore” is astray
when he suggests that there are no
trades in which a man can be forced to
stop work for the benefit of his health
(B. 19/10/’49). Over an operation and
feeling no reactions, I reported back for
work. My return was hailed eagerly by
the controllers of my work, but the in-
dustrial officer put a spoke in the wheel.
He wanted a certificate of fitness to re-
sume ; and doctors are somewhat con-
ventional in their insistence upon a con-
valescent period. In the same works a
man who has faltered in his stride may
be held off until the works m.o. gives him
the O.K. The same applies in many in-
dustries, although most are hungry for
staff. The reason is the Workers’ Com-
pensation Act. A breakdown at work
may mean months on “compo.”
* * * ♦
“B’wick”: Speaking of wrecks (B.
20/7/’49), can anyone tell me the name
of the Air Force supply-ship that was
driven ashore on a sandbank in Princess
Charlotte Bay during the cyclone of
1944? The blow whisked away a radar-
station, including most of the buildings,
injuring all but one of the station’s crew.
H.M.A.S. Colac took a doctor and
supplies, landing them from a whaler in
a heavy swell at night, after which she
attempted to set the ship on an even keel,
without success. When daylight came a
boarding-party went off, but soon after
the salvage-tug Caledonian Salvor arrived
and yanked her upright without much
trouble and towed her to Sydney. Next
year I saw her at Madang and later at
Aitape, still flying the R.A.A.F. flag.
* * * *
“Ceg”: Like the lady of “Chuck’s” par.
(B. 5/10/’49), a widow of my acquaintance
badly needed a new carpet for her living-
room. Prices were high: it was not long
after the First World War, and. the ques-
tion of whether it could be afforded was
being keenly debated. She went to the
phone, and whilst waiting for her number
heard through a faulty connection a
stockbroker advising a client to buy
shares in Bawra, the organisation which
handled Australia’s wool clips. She de-
cided to have a flutter. Result: a tidy
profit which more than paid for the new
carpet.
* * * ♦
“Seahawk”: When the naval oil-tanker
Wave Protector struck the Pile Light at
the entrance to the Brisbane River last
month she brought to an abrupt con-
clusion its 36 years of useful service.
Besides acting as a guide and beacon, the
light served as a kind of nautical clear-
ing-house. Ships anchored in the bay
spoke to it with flags, the message then
being relayed by telephone to the agents
in town. Incoming ships would receive
information as to berthage facilities as
they passed in, usually within hailing
distance —a megaphone and a good pair
of lungs often dispensing with slower
methods of signalling. Occasionally, too,
phone messages from the Pile Light have
advised or warned inquiring wives of
the proximity of returning husbands.
Conflicting opinions have been expressed
by harbor authorities as to the advis-
ability of replacing the light, but the
shipping community has no two minds
about its value*
CHIF. DICTATES A POSTER.
“The writs are out, election propaganda is being
prepared—posters not to exceed sixty square inches ;
and Mr. Chifley proudly proclaims his constitutional 1
incapacity to carry out the socialisation policy to
which ‘Labor’ is pledged.”
Said Chif., “It’s as well we’re no boasters,
For here’s where economy pinches—
We’ve restricted the size of our posters
To no more than sixty square inches;
“But this, as our path has been chequered
And empty of sprightly abandon.
Makes it easy to stand on our record
When we haven’t much record to stand on.
“So let’s first appeal to the bankers
To give us their votes at the polling;
They’ve surely good reason to thank us
For not socialising their calling.
“And then there’s the worthy physicians—
Their vote should be certain to head us in
Since we helped them to give politicians
A taste of their own bitter medicine.
“Let’s appeal to the thousands whose wages
We rescued from wasteful enjoyment
When the miners were on their rampages,
And we put them all out of employment.
“More thanks for deliverance from terrors
Should come from Bob Menzies and Fadden,
For we’ve saved them from making the errors
WeTe sure they’d have made if we had’n’.
“So print it, and much good betide it,
And let not our virtues be hidden,
For anything’s good if we did it,
And better by far if we did’n’.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Give your dependants
ŵ
this added Security
Whether your Estate is large or small, you can give your
dependants the added security of an experienced, far-seeing and
efficient trustee. Choose the Permanent Trustee Company and you
bring to the management of your affairs a number of highly
qualified individuals, specialists in taxation, investments, property
values, and all the complexities of Estate administration.
Why not call and discuss this matter further with one of our
Executive Officers? Or write for free booklet, “Trust Estates and
Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman . . . F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
• . . Cecil H. Doyle . . . F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
. . . G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M., F.R.A.C.S.
J. R. Faviell.
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle. Sub Manager: S. U. White
Secretary: F. R. Garland. Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALES
PT.11c.15
‘Taswegian”: | wish they’d hurry up
and finish the hearing of the £lO basic-
wage case. It’s not that I’m so anxious
about the outcome, for I’ve lived long
enough to know that when wages go up,
prices go up in proportion, you pay a
bit more tax and thus you’re worse off
than before. No ; what I’m worried about
is the amazing figure being quoted as the
amount needed by a woman for clothes
—£2 10s. a week! My wife spends less
than that a fortnight on everything—
clothes, toilet articles, fares, sweets, etc.
I’ve been lucky so far ; I’ve seen the paper
before she’s out of bed. But she’s bound
to get suspicious soon—she’s not going
to believe for many more days that
they’ve forgotten again to deliver our
paper.
* * * *
“Dick Turpin”; Fighting enthusiasts
organised a boxing tournament in our
town, the highlight of the programme a
match between the local cock o’ the walk
and a Polish heavyweight ex-champion
whom the promoters had discovered in a
near-by migrant centre. The Polack had
more than four stone in hand over the
local, and there was a good deal of in-
terest in the bout, with plenty of money
offering. The first couple of rounds were
devoted to exhibitions of style. In the
next round a punch or two were ex-
changed, It was at this stage that our
bush hero used the shopworn noun that
casts doubt upon one’s parentage. The
word may be a term of endearment in
Australia, but evidently it is not con-
sidered so in Poland. The big fellow
from Kosciusko’s territory dropped his
gloves and walked to the ropes. “Ladeez
and shentlemen. Thees man call me
. It is insult. I can no fight heem.”
The ref. had no choice but to crown our
pug, who was gentleman enough to spend
an hour or so afterwards apologising and
explaining to the Pole that the word was
lightly uttered. Perhaps Mr. Calwell
will include a course in Australian swear-
ing in the acclimatisation course to iron-
out these differences between Australian
and continental delicacies.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: I must be one of those
morons who have no sense of showman-
ship. When I go to the talkies I go with
the intention of seeing a particular film.
If I notice in the fqyer damsels decked
out in costumes as worn by the heroine,
1 am neither drawn quickly to the box-
office nor repelled from it. A tableau in
the lobby might check my progress from
the queue to the door marked “stalls,”
but my ticket would have been bought
just the same if it hadn’t been there.
Still, everybody is not as lacking in
appreciation as I am. One fellow, at least,
must be heartily in favor of these foyer
attractions. Recently a Sydney theatre
screened a racing film. A life-size model
of a horse, saddled and bridled, was set
up with a wax jockey holding its head.
The attraction had been on view some
days when the appreciative chap arrived,
calmly removed the saddle and marched
off with it. He’ll probably be back when
“Neptune’s Daughter” is being revived,
* * * *
“Mac Fergus”: Destruction by fire of
an old-established pub at Eulo (s.-w. Q.)
recalls a former licensee, Mrs. Isabella
Gray, known throughout the west in its
wildest and woolliest era as the Eulo
Queen. She was reputed to own the
most valuable private collection of opals
in Australia, and during her “reign” the
township provided three pubs to cater for
“Mind giving this a spruce up ?”
chequemen on their annual jag. Today
the population is 65 with only one pub,
and chequemen on the bust only a
memory. The “Queen” died broke in
Dunwich about 30 years ago.
* * * *
“Uco”: As the train, having emptied
itself of passengers at Wynyard under-
ground, moved off into the tunnel to
switch over to the outward-bound line,
a young woman stopped in her tracks
and gave a plaintive squeal: “Ooh! I
left my umbrella in the train.” A calm,
efficient-looking bloke with one of those
dispatch-cases which look as if they con-
tain highly-important documents, but
which more often carry a cut lunch, came
to her assistance. “Don’t worry,” he
said. “You’ll be able to get it in a
jiffy when the train comes into the oppo-
site platform.” The girl was not so sure.
“But I don’t know which carriage I left
it in,” she confessed. “I do,” said the
c., e.-l. b. “I saw you get out. It was
carriage number C 2655.” By this time
the train was rattling in on the other line.
C 2655 pulled up almost opposite and in
dived the modern knight-errant, to emerge
in triumph with the gamp. I haven’t de-
cided yet whether he is taking a course
in memory-training or whether he col-
lects carriage-numbers as other folk do
postage-stamps.
* * * *
“Odyssey”; Turret ships (B. 19/10/’49)
were certainly not designed for their
appearance, but to carry bulk cargoes.
The law required feeders to be built above
any compartment carrying grain. Such
feeders held a percentage of the cargo
below. As the ship rolled and worked,
the cargo settled, and the portion in the
feeders filled up the space, thus prevent-
ing the cargo shifting and possibly cap-
sizing the ship. The side elevation of the
old Bovril bottle gives a good idea of a
cross-section of a turret ship. The top
portion was intended to do away with
the expense of building feeders. It is true
that the old method of measuring the
Suez Canal tonnage of a ship favored
the turret type, but it didn’t take the
canal company long to scotch that, and
the maximum breadth of a ship was used
instead of that of the main deck. Such
companies as the Clan Line continued to
build turret ships, so apparently the sav-
ing in canal dues was not considered their
main advantage. My own experience as
an officer in them was that they were
wonderful in a seaway, one never got
heavy water on deck, and they were excel-
lent carriers. Their almost circular cross-
section made them very tough ships with
a long economic life.
* ♦ * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: In my kid days,
when a desire to breed white mice—
which turned out to be white rats —came
to me, I learnt something of the all sorts
it takes to make the world. Keeping
white rats and spending a lot of my spare
time building new cages for the alarm-
ingly-increasing progeny of my original
four seems, when looked back upon, a
queer enough hobby; but who would
think that in a small suburb there were
a number of people with a secret passion
for snakes? Mr. Crawler was the first
reptilian man I met; he diffidently put to
me an offer for the supply of white rats
“for scientific purposes.” It came at a
time when the rapid increase of the rat
colonies was getting me down. His snakes
got good value for his money; I sold
him the big bucks which bit the most
when I cleaned the cages. Very shortly
along came two other snake-fanciers.
Neither of them was as delicate in
approach as the first chap; they simply
said they wanted rats to -feed their snakes.
Even the fecundity of my rats failed to
keep pace with the lively demand, but,
before my stocks had dwindled too much,
I managed to sell the business as a going
concern, the purchase consideration in-
cluding, besides some cash, an old watch
that wouldn’t go, a silver pencil-case that
refused to hold lead and a pocket-
compass. The kid who bought my stock
didn’t know that I would gladly have
paid him to take the pests away.
* * * *
While on a visit to England
a friend offered me the loan of a car. I
had never learned to drive, but a course
at a motoring school soon remedied that,
and I was ready for my driving tests. A
London bobby sat beside me as I drove
around Westminster earnestly following
all the rules I had been taught. I per-
formed my turns, reverses and stops-and-
starts, and all went well until I got in
behind a stream of cars and was forced
to stop. I waited patiently for some time
until the bobby asked very affably
whether I knew where I was. I admitted
I didn’t, adding in extenuation that I
was an Australian visitor. That appa-
rently explained everything. I had
tacked on to the end of a taxi-rank and
looked like staying there until my turn
came to move up.
* * ♦ *
“Doh”: “Zake” should see my sister
use a pressure-cooker (B. 6/7/’49). “The
pressure-cooker is a device only for the
phlegmatic type of woman,” he says.
Well, Sis is the sort who jumps a yard
at a loud noise and displays other signs
of being “highly-strung.” But the pres-
sure-cooker? She was too busy to read
the instruction booklet right through, and
apart from scanning the cooking times
for vegetables she has not studied the
beast as the manufacturers advise. Once
the vegies are in and the lid is on she
doesn’t worry till a hiss announces that
steam is emerging from the top ; then on
goes the jiggler. Another hiss warns of
the “cook” line, and down goes the gas.
After that, further preparations for the
meal go on without undue worry as to
time, and conversation is unimpeded.
When the chops are done she may in-
quire mildly if I noticed the time when
she turned down the gas, but generally
she just cools the beast under the tap
and hopes for the best. An extra-tough
cabbage beat her the other night. After
the dinner was served up she prodded
the greenery with her fork, looked re-
proachfully at the cooker and said “Why,
the blessed stuff’s not cooked!”
* * * *
“C.E.”: We were rattling along at a
pretty smart bat, and I gripped the edge
of the car-seat and hoped for the best.
“Mind the crossing,” I called to the
driver. He didn’t hear. “Mind the
Oh, never mind.” Seemed silly to pursue
the matter when we were a block past,
anyway. We raced past a stationary
tram, just missed a pedestrian and bore
down on the next intersection. With a
screeching of brakes we overshot the
stop and came to rest in the cross-stream
of traffic. My driver gazed round, be-
wildered. After a truck-driver and a
taxi-man had told him what they thought
of him my chauffeur decided it would be
better to shift. He pushed the gears
into reverse, but the car seemed
possessed of a determination to go
everywhere else but. At length, to
everyone’s relief, we found ourselves
over the crossing and, luckily, headed in
the right direction. I climbed out and
shakily thanked the driver for the —er —
experience. Drunk? Not at all. A most
circumspect and respectable gent, in his
early eighties who was a first-class driver
up till 20 years ago.
A CLASSICAL CLEAN-UP.
“Appointment No. 15. Position of Cleaner. Appli-
cation in own handwriting stating (a) full name;
(b) address; (c) date and place of birth; (d) nature
and place of last employment; (e) war service, i*
anv; (f) academic and other qualifications.”
— C.5.1.R.0. advt. in Griffith (N.S.W.) paper.
How typical, how very characteristic
Of those who o’er commercial houses reign
(Unlike enlightened bosses socialistic)
That in their ads. for cleaners they maintain
So lacking are their powers of penetration —
A failure to appreciate that he
Will push a broom around as his vocation
Much better if he’d gained matriculation —
Still better with a ’varsity degree.
It’s patent that more confident reliance
To make a window shine or mop a floor
Would be reposed in Bachelors of Science,
Than those who had neglected to explore
That academic realm. Much higher rated
As scrubber of linoleum is the dame
Who (though she’s possibly degenerated),
Back in the long-lost years had graduated,
And proudly tacked a B.A, to her name.
It must undoubtedly be gratifying
To hear assistant window-cleaners speak
Among themselves, the while their rags they’re
plying.
In quite the purest, fluent classic Greek.
And, after all, what could be more conducive
To happier work in C.S.I.R. joints
Than moppers, in their circle quite exclusive,
Indulging in their arguments abusive
On the Binomial Theorem’s finer points?
Ah, well, it ill behoves us to be mocking.
Perhaps it’s not so much to raise a laugh
As show that by acquiring some “blue-stocking”
They’ll raise the tone of all their cleaning
staff.
What follows, then, but this elaboration?
To keen imagination put it down:
The scientific crowd, for variation,
Will deck their cleaners out with ostentation:
They’ll sweep up now in mortar-board and
gown!
N.S.VV.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Hanko”: We were cutting burrs in
the roadside paddock when there
happened along a swagman ; a youngish
fellow with a stubble of beard, a tidy
knot and a very bright billycan. “Watch
me git a bite out of this bloke,” the boss
whispered. “G’day, son,” he greeted the
wayfarer. “Why are y’ clearin’ out from
home, lad?” The swaggie stopped; his
eyes glinted, and his cheeks reddened
noticeably. The trump raised a pacific
hand. “Now, don’t take it hard, nipper,”
he said. “It’s none of my business, but
clearin’ out from home is a serious”
“Wot y’ talkin’ about, clearin’ out from
home?” yelled the drum-humper. “I’ve
been on the track f’r years ; tramped
through Vic., South Oss, Noo South
an’” “Garn, y’ can’t tell me that,”
the boss said. “Why, y’r billy ain’t even
been cooked in yet.” “Dammitall, y’
rabbit-starvin’ cow,” roared the traveller.
“A man has to git a noo billy sometimes,
don’t he? I just bought that can.”
“ ’Course y’ just bought it,” the trump
"Cant sleep without a nightcap , lady.”
agreed, “an’ I’ll bet y’ busted open y’r
money-box to buy it. Take it home, son,
afore it gits dusty or rained on.” At that
the road-pounder really did bite.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: I’ve never had the
pleasure of hearing the English blackbird
in his pre-dawn harmony (B. 5/10/’49),
but many times I’ve cussed the wagtail
and stormcock for talking in their sleep.
Moonlight seems to inspire both birds,
on occasions, although what fun there is
in saying the same thing over and over
again at short intervals all night I can’t
even guess. And more than anything I
know a bird’s nocturnal call can weave
itself into a sleeper’s dreams. In the most
blood-freezing nightmare I ever suffered
I was shut up in a hut while outside a
hideous banshee moaned for my blood.
I awoke with the cold shudders. My
banshee was a curlew, calling from
somewhere out in the darkness. Psycho-
logists claim that such dreams are merely
the result of the subconscious mind try-
ing to find an explanation for an unusual
sound. They may be right, but Last
night I dreamt that I had cornered a fellow
who has been somewhat longwinded over
paying for a little job I did for him. Tact-
fully I brought the conversation around
to the job, and then decided to put the
hard word on him. But I couldn’t talk!
Every time I opened my mouth I whistled
—a shrill series of notes running up the
scale, then dropping back to “taws.” My
struggles to overcome the affliction woke
me up. With a wonderful feeling of
relief I realised that a stormcock was
whistling his head off —the same tune that
I had been whistling to my debtor. But
the incident has an ominous ring to it:
Can it be that in my subconscious mind
already I know that I’ll be whistling for
my money?
* * * *
“Ware”; Most bushmen who have
ridden sandhill country have seen the
litter of bleached long-bones, the broken
rib-ends erect in the red sand, or the
brown skull with its teeth worn flat that
means an aboriginal grave. And many
bushmen, and a lot of anthropologists,
have wondered just how old some of those
fragile bones may be. The scientist has
had to hope for skeletons in the stratified
cave deposits that make some sort of
age-assessment possible. But Brother
Boong lived in a sunny country that
rendered cave-dwelling unnecessary. Over
the last three years, however, a new
method of dating organic remains has
been worked out. Briefly, a dead body
contains a just-detectable amount of
radio-active carbon—Carbon 14. These
unstable carbon atoms break down to
form nitrogen at a mathematically pre-
dictable rate that is unaffected by en-
vironmental changes. It is claimed that,
by concentrating the Carbon 14 present
in organic remains and assessing its
amount by mass-spectograph or Geiger-
Muller counter, the age of the specimen
can be calculated, especially where the
age is between 1000 and 50,000 years.
This seems to be a very useful period
where aboriginal remains are concerned.
If the technique can be applied in Aus-
tralia, it may be possible to learn some-
thing of our aborigines’ tangled history.
* * * *
“Blime”: Hal ran a thousand or so
crossbreds, and for weeks before shearing-
time the jumbucks were constantly getting
cast. Lying down, they would struggle
on to their backs, the fleece would spread,
and there, four feet pointing heavenward,
would remain until Hal arrived to pick
them up. To beat the crows the sheep-
man was continuously on the alert, his
practised eye so quick to pick out a cast
animal that neighbors didn’t worry about
their paddocks in the vicinity, knowing
Hal would spot any woolly in trouble.
When the urgent call to the city came,
Hal installed old Bill on the place, and
after explaining the job to him a few
dozen times, pocketed his clean collar
and departed. For the first hour or so of
the train trip Hal inspected the interior
of the compartment; then, running once
more through sheep-country, his eyes set
steadily out the window. Suddenly came
commotion. The train lurched, plied its
brakes and jerked violently to a stop, as
an excited guard dashed down its length,
yelling to a figure that dropped to the
ground and sprinted across-country.
“Won’t be long,” Hal yelled back. “Yair,
I pulled the cord. Had to. Don’t y’ see?
There’s a sheep down, over on the rise
here!”
“Even if I DO look like a tortoise , get this blasted thing off me!”
“Old-timer”: Old Jim got the idea that
there was a snake living under his hut.
We assured him there were no signs of
tracks, that neither his cat nor our dogs
agreed with him, but he wouldn’t believe
us. On the Sunday we helped him root
out all the rubbish from under the hut,
crawled under it and poked about and
barked our knuckles and got dirt in our
eye, sent Little Curl’s underdone, one-
eyed foxy under and saw her come out
again and go disgustedly to the woodheap
and lie down. “No snake there,” we de-
clared. Jim seemed slightly convinced.
Next day he told how he’d heard it rust-
ling and how he’d “had a feelin’ all night
the cow was there? all right.” We were
sick of Jim and his snake and left him
to settle it himself. Every now and then
he’d talk about that snake, but all he got
was laughter and sarcasm. After a week
of it the boss decided to reason with Jim.
The two of them sat on the hut step, the
boss talking away to Jim, the sun shining,
the day warm. Out between the boss’s
boots flowed a brown snake. Boss and
Jim rose in the air as though shot from
guns and Little Curl rushed in and bat-
tered that snake. “It was the only way
t’ settle it,” he said later. “Got the Joe
in the chaff-shed, stuck him on a fishin’
rod an’ pushed him through from the
corner, then rushed round an’ donged
him.” Jim slept peacefully thereafter.
* * * *
“Bo”: It had been dull and overcast
when the new hand was sent by Crowther
down to the dam with the sled to get the
44-gallon drum filled with water. Often
the conditions had appeared similar dur-
ing the long drought, but the clouds had
disappeared without a drop of rain
falling. This time, however, blacker
clouds rolled up, the lightning and
thunder came, and a few big raindrops
were the preliminary to the downpour.
After about half an hour of teeming
rain which looked like setting in for some
days Crowther was joyfully surveying the
scene when he noticed Captain pulling the
laden sled up the paddock. The drum as
usual had the cornsack tied around the
top to prevent too much of the .precious
water slopping out. As the hand pulled
the horse to a stop outside the kitchen
Crowther looked at him exasperatedly.
“Why the hell didn’t y’ tip it out and
come back empty when y’ saw the rain
set in?” he asked. musta started
rainin’ when y’ were fillin’ it.” “It was,”
replied the hand, “But y’re always goin’
crook on a man f’r not finishin’ a job,
an’ I thought if I hadn’t done the same
with this y’d have roared a bloke up as
usual!”
* * * *
“Zake”: Chambers and Bartlett noticed
the sparks as they came around the bend
past the bridge on their way home from
a euchre-party in the township. “It’s
Calvert’s place alight!” said Bartlett, and
they broke into a run. The fire had a
hold on the kitchen and looked as if it
might spread quickly to the rest of the
three - roomed weatherboard cottage.
Calvert was a bachelor. They dashed into
his bedroom and Chambers shook him.
“Get out quick!” he said. “Your joint’s
on fire, Harry.” He and Bartlett forth-
with proceeded to get the buckets going
from the tank outside the kitchen-door.
They’d been heaving buckets on the walls
for a few minutes when they noticed that
Calvert wasn’t present. Telling Bartlett
to concentrate on the base of the fire,
which they seemed to be beating,
Chambers dashed into the bedroom
again. Calvert was snoring evenly. He
shook the owner of the fire and yelled
at him again. Slowly Calvert got to his
elbow, yawning. “Whatcha say’s the
matter?” he asked at last. “Your
place nearly went up in smoke! ” revealed
his benefactor. “Bartlett and I saw it —
we’ve nearly got it out. You were lucky.”
Calvert yawned again. “Yair, I s’pose I
was,” he mumbled as he settled himself
down again. “When y’ve shoved it out.
Tom, would y’ mind closin’ the back-
door? The blasted fowls git in an’ wake
a man up at an unearthly hour if it’s
left open.”
♦ * * ♦
“Dick Turpin”: Can well appreciate
“Abdul’s” near escape from the boar
(B. 12/10/’49), especially after the old
gentleman had been sliced across the
shoulderblades. However, I must
question pork’s ability to charge nearly
80 yards after two dum-dum 44’s had
“crashed between his eyes,” even if they
did “barely miss the brain.” Pigs are
undoubtedly not easy to kill, but one
flat-nosed, large-calibre bullet between
the eyes will collapse any animal at that
range. Incidentally, although the N.S.W.-
Queensland border country boasts
some nasty specimens, boars which in-
fest the west coast of Maoriland’s South
Island take the biscuit for tusks and
aggressiveness. Their progenitors were
marooned there by Captain Cook, and
the ensuing 170-odd years have bred a
savage animal, sought by sportsmen but
shunned by everyone else. It’s not un-
usual for them to charge cars on those
sodden west-coast roads.
* * * ♦
“Wippegong”: There’s color along the
creek today. You notice the mistletoe-
bird first —he sees to that, for the sharp
single note that he uttered sparingly
through the winter is now repeated loud
and fast, tremulous with the urgency of
the season, for much of the mistletoe is
in flower and soon there will be the
berries on which he feeds his chicks.
Weight for noise, he must be one of the
rowdiest birds in the bush; it seems
ridiculous to think such a racket could
come from that midget, but the voice is
his all right, for when the blue-and-
crimson bundle flashes past you the
clamor travels with it and the recital is
resumed from some prominent perch that
makes observation, easy. Then in the
casuarinas near him another red catches
the eye ; brighter this time, and the wearer
is whispering a wheezy little song to him-
self as he fossicks along the outer twigs.
Brilliant though the mistletoe bird is, this
fellow is brighter, for whereas the noisy
chap is blue on top and crimson on throat
and breast, this little gem looks as though
he dived into red ink and was perman-
ently stained to the shoulders. He’s the
scarlet honey-eater; the fine, curved
probing bill marks him as a bird of the
blossoms, and to see his face buried in the
red-and-orange flower of a big mistletoe,
with beady black eyes watching you each
side of a petal at a range of four feet, is
a pretty handsome reward for keeping
dead-still. Then a soft, rolling call,
unlike any other, brings you round in
time to spot a pair of burnished copper
wings, semi-transparent against the sun,
gliding in a gentle turn before settling be-
side a mate on a dead stick —the rainbow
birds are back. They snuggle together
like budgerigahs do, long black beaks
turning as they watch for passing insects,
shot-green backs changing to blue, then
back to green. Their long, tapering tail-
feathers, part of the mating plumage, are
not yet fully-grown, but in a week or two
they’ll poke out behind as the birds dive
into their burrows in the bank. They’ve
been in strange parts since last they
graced the creek, but I’m glad no silly
business about landing-permits or lan-
guage-tests will ever hinder their return.
SEA ENCHANTMENT.
Always, when we were young, the wind was
there,
Salt with its tang of fishing-net and weed.
It scuffed in old-man shuffles to the door,
Rapping bent fingers on our windowpane,
Or; candy-sweet as honeysuckle flowers,
Sighed through the Norfolk pines like gentle
rain.
Sea-lore was ours. We knew the changing tides;
Fished for striped maido in the shining pools,
And saw the cargo-boat go laboring by:
She chalked her course in white along the
waves,
Below old watchdog hill, snuffing the sky.
Small gangling jetties rose on sapling legs
Above the reed-stabbed creek. To . . . fro . . .
to . . . fro,
Flat rowboats swinging at the taut ropes’ ends
Rocked to the rhythm of the water’s flow.
Grey-feathered gulls in curving flight swooped
low.
Days of a child’s enchantment! Smooth, white
dunes
Humped in hillocks down to yellow sands.
Brown girl and sun-brown boy!
We sifted the sea-washed shells in careful hands
And the wind was there.
It whipped our long, bare legs and knotted
our hair.
Sometimes at night, when round my tidy
house,
Knuckling bent fingers at the windowpane,
The sea-wind comes with its insistent tapping,
I am a child again;
Racing fleet-footed on the golden shore
Where the sea-spray drapes the cliff in misty
rain.
N.S.W.
JOAN TIMMS.


8®
frusaaev
m mm
m
iiiiiiii
Mi
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO THELMA MAUD WHITE late of 101
Wangee Road Lakemba.—TAKE NOTICE
that WALTER EDWARD WHITE has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3611 of 1949
on the grounds of desertion by failure to
comply with a decree for restitution of
conjugal rights If you wish to defend
you, may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 13th day of January
1950 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from N. A. A. PRIMROSE,
of 77 Castlercagh Street, Sydney, Solicitor.
—(L.S.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO REGINALD GEORGE McGOVERN
formerly of 103 Walker Street Redfern.
—TAKE NOTICE that PATRICIA Mc-
GOVERN has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 110 of 1949 on the ground of deser-'
tion without just cause or excuse for 3
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Gth of January 1950
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. W. H. HILL &
WEIR, Solicitors, 10 Castlereagh Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
Legal Notice.
THE Public Trustee lor Victoria is the
administrator of the estate of ELIZABETH
VAN-HEES (also known as ELIZABETH
VAN-HEESE) late of 13 Little Collins
Street Melbourne in the State of Victoria
widow deceased intestate. —IF JOHN
MURDOCH who was born at Castlemaine on
the 10th February 1861 and whose parents
were Campbell Murdoch and Mary Murdoch
(maiden surname Egan) and who was a
brother of the said deceased survived her
he would be entitled to share in her
estate and if he predeceased her leaving
children who survived her such children
would be entitled to share in her estate.
The said John Murdoch is believed to
have worked on a station near Broken
Hill in the State of New South Wales. —
NOTICE is hereby given that unless on
or before the 9th day of February 1950
the PUBLIC TRUSTEE FOR VICTORIA
receives a claim to share in the estate
of the said Elizabeth Van-Hees deceased
from the said John Murdoch or from some
person claiming through him or as one
of his issue the Public Trustee for Vic-
toria will distribute the estate of the de-
ceased as if the said John Murdoch pre-
deceased without issue.—C. J. GARDNER,'
Public Trustee for Victoria, 412 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
ElastopJast
TRADE HARK
THE COMFORTABLE E-L-A-S-T-l-C
FIRST AID DRESSINGS
It’s flesh-coloured and
inconspicuous. Safer,
too, because it’s medicated. More
comfortable, because it’s elastic
and stretches with your skin. The
handy red tin contains a size and
shape to protect every type of
injury. Never be without it! At
chemists everywhere.
For CUTS
WOUNDS
busters'"
ABRASIONS
A SIZE AND SHAPE
FOR EVERY NEED
■
A product
IN THE RED TIN
f T. J. Smith & Nephew Ltd., Hull, England T/IJ9
“B. A. Ker”: Dame Nature is typi-
cally a woman ; the unworthy and useless
always receive more attention and con-
sideration from her than do the honest
and reliable. The earthworm and the
snail provide just one example. When
flooding rains begin to wash into his
workings, the honest little tiller of the
soil receives the message; “Get out before
you get drowned.” He gets out —and
there the fickle female leaves him. If he
crawled into long grass or wriggled up a
shrub or weed he would be safe, but in
what he calls a head there is only a vague
notion that he should get to something
solid—a concrete path preferably. And
there, with hundreds of his brothers—or
is it sisters?—he drowns, his body dis-
integrating in the shallow stretch of water.
How much more efficiently Nature has
equipped the snail! When rain becomes
consistent the slimy one flies the banner
“Excelsior,” and heads for the nearest
perpendicular object. Trees, fences,
walls he’ll climb: —even a windowpane’s
non-grip surface fails to stop or divert
him —and although the silver trail left be-
hind proves that he has never studied
Euclid, nothing but a major flood could
drown him. In the recent heavy rains my
letterbox became a snail-sanctuary;
and another chore added itself to my
daily routine killing the intruders.
One day I opened the box and found
three snails literally devouring my cor-
respondence. In the two hours since the
mailman had passed, a strip of manilla
envelope two and a half inches by half
an inch had been consumed and the fool-
scap inside marked as though rubbed
violently with an eraser. Since then an
invitation to a wedding and a lodge bill
have been attacked. I’m praying for
heavy rain when the income-tax demands
are posted out.
* * * *
“Kerk”: Roman, the newly-arrived
D.P., had charge of the herd, so when the
local butcher inquired which beast he was
to take Mrs. Cocky said: “Oh, Roman
knows.” There were three cows bailed
“Yes, yes — but cant he do something original?”
up, and Butch’s assistant couldn’t under-
stand why Butch examined their faces so
closely until he turned with a baffled air
and asked, “Well, which one’s got the
roman nose?”
* * * *
“Solitude”: Tired out, I was first to
bunk, and had just settled down when
Sandy arrived. “Takin’ them calves o’
Mac’s out o’ your paddock at daylight,”
I heard him telling Seventyfiver. “An’
Mac says t’ ask how much he owes f’r
grass.” “Eh? Aw, er—Sol! Hey, Sol!”
I breathed heavily, and managed a minor
snore. “Aw, cripes, I’ll work it out meself
then,” Seventyfiver decided, collecting
himself a brown paper-bag, and digging
up a stub of pencil. “Er—le’me see now.
There was five-hundred head in that mob
Mac bought. Paid eighteen-quid f’r em.
An’ he branded! four-hundred calves.”
“Yes, but there was only thirteen in your
paddock.” “That’s right,” agreed Seventy-
fiver. “Now what we got t’ find out,”
he announced weightily, “is how long they
been in.” Followed an argument that
lasted the best part of an hour, Seventy-
fiver substantiating his claim of 27 weeks
with every droving trip we’d made during
the past 10 years, and Sandy proving it
was 15 by every shower since the flood.
After every crime in the calendar had
been laid at the other’s door several times,
they finally agreed to split the difference
and call it nineteen and a half weeks.
Then the old bloke got busy with the
pencil. “Hundred-’n’-eight-four-quid an’
ninepence,” he announced, after a long
time. “Eh? Yair, does seem a lot; but
figures don’t lie, y’ know. Here, check
it y’self if y’ ain’t satisfied.” Followed a
lot of counting and mumbling, then Sandy
agreed it must be right, pocketed the
paper, and found his hat. “How much
a head did y’ charge him?” he turned
back from the door to inquire. “A head?
Er —er —Sol! Hey, Sol! Aw, y’ll have t’
ask Sol that y’self,” he snorted, “if the
cow ever wakes up again. Anyway, I
don’t think they decided on the price a
head yet.” Sandy departed with a grunt
and I slept in peace.
* * * *
“Bot Anik”: “B. A. Ker’s” note about
the “pudding-grass” (B. 12/10/’49) recalls
many grand feasts made in the past. But
the grass possesses a bulb which gives
even better fare. Peeled, it is glistening
white, cool and possesses a crisp nutty
flavor. As these bulbs are always in edible
condition they have an advantage over
the “puddings,” for these must be in the
right succulent condition to warrant
further attention. But I can readily
understand “B.A.K.’s” ma-in-law wishing
to grow “onion-grass.” In South Aus-
tralia the Cape Tulip, despite its place in
the Noxious Weeds Act, always had a
couple of classes to itself in the country-
show schedules. And what beautiful dis-
plays those bowls and vases were! How-
ever, officialdom suggested to the com-
mittee it was rather bad form, and they
were deleted from the programmes. But
many a farm garden still sports a clump
or two, far too precious to dig up—for
didn’t it always get the first-prize?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; We came across the
motor lorry with its load of chaff bogged
in drift-sand. It was a blazing day, and
we sweated plenty as we helped the driver
chuck the chaff off, get the lorry out, then
reload the chaff. “Where y’ makin’ for?”
he asked. “Echuca.” “All right, hop up,
Fm goin’ there.” We hopped up. He
said how hot it was and what a knot he’d
have been in if we hadn’t come along.
We agreed. In Moama he pulled up
opposite the Border Inn. “Hold on,” he
said, “while I hop in an’ get a drink.
Handlin’ that chaff makes a man dry,”
We sat there, confidently expecting him
to bring out a bottle. He reappeared with
froth on his lips. “That was good,” he
said, hopped in and started the motor.
We didn’t say anything; we couldn’t.
* * ♦ *
“Biggest Mac”; A collector’s piece
among horses is a white foal born from a
roan mare by a brown stallion. It is no
ordinary moke either, having trotting
lines, and was produced at Huon Vale
stud, Gawler River (S.A.) One leading
studmaster recalls having seen only one
white foal before, and that was back in
1914. The registrar of the S.A. branch
of the Thoroughbred Breeders’
tion cannot remember any thoroughbred
racehorse ever being bred all-white.
* * * *
“Rooster”: Bert was having a terrific
struggle getting the poddy to take sus-<
tenance. It had a strange dislike for his
nicotine-stained forefinger, and a strong
objection to having its head forced down
into the bucket. “Won’t drink, won’t
y’?” panted the perspiring cocky, after 10
minutes’ all-in wrestling. He got astride
the animal, applied a half-nelson, and at
last succeeded in submerging mouth and
nostrils into the milk. The calf gave
one gurgle and spreadeagled its limbs,
bowling over the bucket. With his boots
overflowing Bert released his hold. “Just,
plain stubborn, that’s what it is,” he
grated. Just then his wife came on the
scene. “Better leave the poddies V
me,” she said grimly, “an’ stick t’ y’r
ploughin’.” The amazed cocky watched
her as she got another bucket of milk
and placed it quietly in front -of the
wild-eyed rebel, which rose eagerly and
drank freely of its own accord. “That
one,” Mrs. Bert added drily, “has bin
broken in f’r a week or more!”
ROADWORTHY.
It s a long, long trail to our infancy,
it s a weary way from the past;
It’s an uphill climb to Eternity,
But we’ll all get there at last!
(It slog, slog, slog for the Infantry
, "'" en the boys gave hell to the Huns;
* was a jolting ride for the Cavalry
And a rolling road for the Guns!)
And now, though it’s peace (and piety?)
There’s not much lift to the strain,
And if you expect variety,
My friend, you must beat your brain!
We’ve lost our youth and our innocence;
We re tough guys now to a man;
But star *d to a mate in extremity
As did he when the tramp began.
We’ve not great faith in humanity,
>° r muc h that we take on trust;
We ve shed our pride with our vanity.
But there’s grit in the roadside dust.
The swell sails by in his chariot,
T IS gloved hands glued to the wheel;
We ve no more gloves than Iscariot,
And our boots are burst at the heel.
I reckon we lag superfluous, •
B ut , there'’s still a stage to be done;
* the ultimate gong shall curfew us
We will keep on keeping on.
B ® a stretch from the cradle’s cherishing
lo the pauper’s shell in the clay;
But there is rest for the perishing,
And we’ll all sleep sound one day.
slog- slog, slog for the Infantry
When the boys gave hell to the Huns;
Twas a jolting ride for the Cavalry
And a rolling road for the Guns!)
ENGLAND.
GUY INNES.


Full time
ẅ
Service
The Trustees Executors & Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company, has since
its inception in 1878 given the whole of its lime to the provision of:
• Prompt, efficient and economical service as Executor, Trustee, Administrator or Agent.
• It cannot die or leave the country. Its services go on forever.
• It is specially constituted under Act of Parliament.
• It offers ample security for the performance of trusts.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; O. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
I BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
and 401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £966,706.
Incorporated in Victor!V in 1878.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
THE WILDCAT COLUMN
David Jones, Ltd. (Sydney)
t Dividends-
Ist 2nd
Net Pref. Pref. Re-
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 74 p.c. Ordinary. serves.*
£ £ £ ' _£ £
1940. .207,1)53 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 81,000 917,704
1941. .130,067 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,000 939,621
1942. .148,462 9000 18,750 8 „ ~64,800 995,533
1943. .159,020 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 81,0001,045,803
1944. .159,814 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,0001,096,867
1945. .103,929 9000 18,750 10 „ ~81,0001,152,046
1946. .207,630 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 81.0001,250,925
Reserves capitalised, £lOO,OOO ..1,150,925
1947. .233,315 9000 18,750 10 p.c. = 91,000 1,265,490
1948. .276,960 9000 18,750 124 „ ~113,750 1,400,950
1949. .211,039 9000 18,750 10 „ ~ 95,000 1,499,239
* Excludes workers’-compensation reserve, £44,821,
1949.
This is another of Sydney’s big and
fashionable department stores to show
a marked drop (£65,921) in net earnings
in the face of a substantial increase (10.8
p.c., or over £1,000,000) in turnover,
which passed the £ 10,000,000-mark.
Official cuts in gross margins, which
operated for only the last five months of
the term, and the stiff all-round rise in
the cost of trading, were mainly respon-
sible.
Last term wages in the Sydney retail
trade were up 225. a week for males and
17s. a week for females compared with
the previous year. This alone added
£343,000-odd to D.J.’s payroll total
(£2,313,000). And another 2s. a week
has just been added to the basic wage in
Sydney, lifting it to £6 12s. a week
(£4 2s. a week in Nov., 1939), and
further increases are anticipated. With
things as they are, the level of retail
profits depends upon the extent to which
expanding turnover offsets, or helps to
offset, the now dangerous advance in
costs and arbitrary narrowing of gross
margins. It is obvious, therefore, that
any decline in sales would result in a
proportionately much greater fall in net
earnings. Moreover, with the post-war
sellers’ market swinging over to a buyers’
market, continued State control of prices
will destroy much of the benefit the con-
sumer ought to get from competitive
trading, and, in the long run, will lead
to reduction of staff and growth of
unemployment. Recognising all this,
some of the States other than N. S.
Wales are preparing to abandon price-
control at an early date.
Last term’s £211,039 of profit was 7.3
p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined) as against 10.2 p.c.
for the previous year. After payment of
pref. divs. (£27,750), enough remained to
show 19.1 p.c. on ord. capital as against
27, 22.5, 22.2, 16.8 and 16.3 p.c. back
to 1944. The figure was written after
allowing £61,007 (down £3015) for de-
preciation, sending £50,000 (same as
previous term) to the staff fund and
providing £249,594 (£58,555 more than
was earned for shareholders) for the tax-
gatherer. The 2£ p.c. “smile-of-pros-
perity” bonus sent out with the 10 p.c.
div. in 1948 was not repeated, because
control of prices and gross margins
obscures the outlook for profits. With
few exceptions the ords, have had a
regular 10 p.c, ever since 1906.
Considering the increase in turnover
and the rise in prices, the year’s growth
of £106,189 in stocks was moderate.
They appear at cost or under, and the
management isn’t likely to have over-
looked the need to protect this biggest
and most vulnerable of the assets against
the many contingencies to which it is
subject:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £1,310,000 £1,310,000 £1,350,000
Sundry creditors.. 1,044,088 1,401,151 1,639,831
Mortgages, etc. .. 343,772 503,833 503,333
Tax reserve .. 305,591 338,191 249,805
Freeholds . . . . 1,651,962 1,668,482 1,671,762
Plant, etc 234,119 253,782 292,184
Stocks .. .. 1,752,230 2,112,325 2,218,514
Book debts .. 557,087 798,279 880,789
Investments, cash, etc. 168,815 243,293 285,155
To meet the year’s net addition to stocks,
book debts (up £82,510), investments,
etc. (up £41,862) and fixed assets (up
£41,682) the amount coming to sundry
creditors was increased by £238,680 and
40,000 new £1 ords. were issued at par
to employees. The improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£991,489)
was £80,267, and shareholders’ funds
amounted to 53.2 p.c. of total assets.
The co.’s three stores —one each in
Elizabeth-, Market- and George-streets—
are fed from five of its own clothing
factories, a tobacco-distributing offshoot
and a large shoe-manufacturing sub-
sidiary (Selby Shoe Co.), enabling whole-
sale as well as retail profits to be gathered
on about one-fifth of the wholesale pur-
chases.
The market prices the pound ords.,
which it regards as a sound equity with
long-term possibilities, at 58s. 3d. —the
figure fluctuated between 60s. 6d. and
535. 9d. over the last 10 months. The
return at 58s. 3d. is 3.4 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The 6 p.c, first prefs. at 30s.
and the p.c. seconds at 345. 6d. yield
4 p.c. and 4.3 p.c. respectively. Net
tangible cover is visibly £l9 ss. lOd. firsts,
£lO 19s. 6d. seconds and 525. 6d. ords,
W. R. Carpenter and Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 115,904 10 p.c. = 77,500 38,404 312,448
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 287,448
1941.. 115,989 10 p.c. = 77,500 38,489 325,937
War losses written off, £26,706 .. 299,231
1942.. 92,986 5 p.c. = 38,750 54,230 353,467
1943.. 65,076 5„ „ 38,750 26,320 379,793
To inner reserves, £25,000 ~ .. 354,793
1944.. 65,873 5 p.c. = 38,750 27,123 381,918
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 356,916
1945.. 66,035 5 p.c. = 38,750 27,285 384,201
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 359,201
1946.. 67,726 5 p.c. = 38,750 28,976 388,177
To inner reserves, £25,000 .. .. 363,177
Contingencies res. appears, £120,000.. 483,177
1947.. 71,043 7Jp.c.= 60,062 10,981 494,158
To inner reserves, £lO,OOO .. .. 484,158
To tax reserve, £25,000 ~ .. 469,158
1948.. 75,655 9 p.c. = 69,750 5,905 465,063
1949.. 80,194 10 „ „ 77,500 2,694 467,757
At June 30 last this big holding co. had
a paid capital of £775,000 in 850,000 £1
shares —750,000 f.-p. and the balance paid
to ss. each. Its string of subsidiaries is
engaged in island trading, shipping, insur-
ance and other activities in an area
extending from New Guinea out over the
South Seas to Fiji, and to Vancouver
and London as well. During and since
the war it accumulated a lot more cash
than it could find employment for in the
business, now or in the foreseeable future.
So, on Sept. 30 last, 10s. of each f.-p.
pound share (£375,000) was returned, and
10s. of the uncalled liability on the con-
tribs. was cancelled. That reduced paid
capital to £400,000 in 850,000 shares of
10s. each, of which 750,000 are fully
paid and the balance paid to ss. each.
Now consider these figures:
1939. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital ~ .. £775,000 £775,000 £775,000
Sundry creditors .. 152,278 441,879 335,192
Tax provision .. .. 73,600 79,200
War damage cr. .. 85,629 85,480
Shipping, freeholds, plant,
etc 387,350 4,011 1,201
Investments, etc. ~ 527,686 941,017 927,987
Stocks 104,434 72,994 51,548
Debtors, etc 208,926 207,331 162,142
Cash, etc 23,666 654,568 638,501
The amount coming to sundry creditors
includes £177,542 due to subsidiaries, and
cash, etc., is made up of Commonwealth
bonds (£232,057) and cash (£406,444).
So the board will still have plenty of
ready money with which to take advan-
tage of any opportunity that might arise
for further expansion of its interests, and,
more important, the net earning-power
of the group will not be affected to any
extent that really matters.
So payment of a higher rate of divi-
dend on the reduced capital, which
still has the support and assistance of
£467,757 of reserves, becomes an easy
matter. Last term’s £80,194 (up £4539)
of profit was the best since the Jap in-
vasion of part of the group’s territories
interrupted a flow of 10 p.c. divs. in
1942. It was 20 p.c., and the £77,500
paid in divs. 19.37 p.c., on capital as it
now stands. Certainly the visible margin
between earnings and the distribution was
narrow; but profits of the subsidiaries
were taken into account only to extent
of dividends received, and the history of
the business suggests that the cautious
management is not likely to have over-
stated earnings of the offshoots.
There are now 18 or more subsidiaries
in the group, all registered outside Aus-
tralia, and the curtain is kept drawn
over the figures of most of them. With
one exception they all earned “favorable”
profits last term, and are reported to be
making good progress. The exception
is probably the Solomon Islands offshoot.
Shipping, labor and other difficulties have
stood in the way of a resumption of
activities in both the Solomon and Gilbert
island groups, no payment is to be made
by the British Government for war losses
sustained by the co. in these territories,
and it “would appear unlikely that the
co. will re-establish itself in these
centres,” the chairman says. Southern
Pacific Insurance has lifted its div. from
8 p.c. to 10 p.c., and W. R. Carpenter
(Fiji) has paid a steady p.c. for the
last seven years. It is doubtful whether
W. R. Carpenter (New Guinea), formed
about three years ago to take over the
parent’s interests north of Australia, has
yet developed full earning-power.
At the moment island traders are en-
joying boom conditions. As the price of
copra and other island products rocketed
so has purchasing-power at island centres.
The figure for Fiji plantation copra rose
from £FI2 7s, "6d. a ton in Jan., 1940,
to £F2O in Oct., 1944, fell to £FIB ss. 6d.
in Jan., 1946, went up by halting steps
to £F3B 6s. 6d. at end 1947, and then
leapt to £F49 10s. 6d. at the beginning
of 1949. And the British authorities have
entered into long-term contracts with the
Fijian and Australian Governments for
purchase of copra at prices subject to
periodical adjustment. However, there
are many cross-currents in the general
situation, and a change in the economic
climate, which might not be far distant,
could quickly alter the outlook.
At 445, 3d. the f.-p. 10s. shares would
return 4.5 p.c. on a 20 p.c. div. basis, or
3.3 p.c. on, say, a 15 p.c. distribution.
Net tangible cover is visibly 475. Bd.
per pound of paid capital.
Australian Knitting Mills (Melb.)
, Dividends , To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
1940 .. 28,736 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 8,111 203,251
1941 ~ 29,018 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,393 211,644
To staff fund, £2OOO 209,644
1942 .. 28,435 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 7,810 217,454
To staff fund, £2OOO 215,454
1943 .. 29,122 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 8,497 223,951
To staff fund, £7OOO ~ .. .. 216,951
1944 .. 33,250 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 12,625 229,576
1945 . . 28,243 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 7,618 237,194
1946 .. 21,076 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 451 237,645
1947 .. 32,847 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 12,222 249,867
Wage subsidy, £3094 .. .. .. 252,901
1948 .. 39,142 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 18,517 271,478
1949 . . 43,822 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 23,197 294,675
* After deducting goodwill (£25,000).
A splendid showing considering the diffi-
culties in the path, especially the steep
rise in costs following wage-lifts and the
withdrawal of subsidies, which has been
partly offset by higher selling prices and
partly by increased turnover. The
£43,822 (up £4680) of profit was the best
since the Yarra Falls-A.K.M. group dis-
solved in 1939 and A.K.M. returned
nearly two-thirds of its capital.
The profit was written after allowing a
generous £28,823 (up £3603) for deprecia-
tion and £31,000 (up £2000) for taxation,
and was 1 21.2 p.c. on capital as against
18.9, 15.9, 10.2, 13.6, 16.1 and 14.1 p.c.
back to 1943. The div. was kept at an all-
round 10 p.c., and has been for the last
decade —the 10,000 1\ p.c. pref. shares
of 7s. 6d. each advance with the ords.
beyond that rate and share in surplus
assets.
The co. is on the eve of bigger
and wider trading. A new cotton- and
worsted-spinning plant, which will make
the mills independent of outside supplies
of these classes of yarns, is now being
installed in premises recently erected for
the purpose; production is expected to
begin before the close of next accounts.
Machines to manufacture men’s half-hose
are also being installed, and the products
are scheduled to reach the market early
in 1950. And the addition to the branch
factory at Hamilton (Vic.), established
about three years ago to help overcome
the labor shortage, is nearing completion.
The year’s net additions to the book-
value of freeholds and plant, etc., were
£26,209 and £47,307 respectively:
1945. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £206,250 £206,250 £206,250 £206,250
Overdraft . . 801 98,163 325,398
Sndy. creditors 36,118 29,547 29,107 49,661
Tax reserve .. 32,145 34,880 38,851 41,987
Freeholds, etc. 130,983 143,645 159,599 185,808
Plant, etc. . . 105,441 98,817 122,780 170,087
Stocks . . 136,357 171,524 245,913 463,008
Book debts . . 76,451 92,348 128,973 112,485
Cash, etc. . . 76,209 28,745 318 317
Goodwill . . 25,000 25,000 25,000 25,000
Stocks of raw materials, chiefly wool and
cotton, have been strengthened to meet
the requirements of the new equipment.
A large part of the growth of £217,095 in
stocks, which appear at or below cost, was
due to the rise in prices for wool and
cotton and withdrawal of subsidies. To
help meet the year’s outlay the co. went
to its bankers for an extra £227,235 and
added £20,554 to the amount coming to
trade creditors.
To lighten the .debt and provide more
permanent working capital 440,000 new
7s. 6d. ords. were issued (four for five) at
a premium of 2s. 6d. each on Aug. 1 last.
The premium (£55,000) makes a 10 p.c.
div. worth only p.c. on the new issue,
which will bring in £220,000 altogether.
When all the money is gathered on that
lot paid capital will be £371,250 in
10,000 1\ p.c. prefs. and 367,500 ords.,
all of 7s. 6d. each. An all-round 10 p.c.
will then call for £6697 less profit than
was claimed last term, and more assets
should be contributing to the pool.
Capital and-reserves combined need then
turn in only 5.1 p.c. to show 10 p.c. on
capital alone. Later on the 7s. 6d. shares
are to be converted into ss. stock units.
To date production rather than sales
has been the problem, chief bottlenecks
being labor, especially female, and tops
and yarns. But the position in these
respects is changing rapidly; production
is soon expected to overtake demand, and
competition, from both local and over-
seas sources, will inevitably sharpen.
Quality and costs will therefore become
more important factors in sales than they
have been of recent years, and the co. is
well-equipped for the struggle, technically
and otherwise. Much will also depend
upon how officialdom, which can know
the problems of trade and industry only
at secondhand, deals with the important
question of price-control.
At 15s, 9d. (18s, 6d. a year ago) the
7s. 6d. ords. return 4.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. The well-protected prefs. are
not quoted on ’Change. Including the
new issue, net tangible cover is 14s. 7d.
a share.
North Broken Hill. Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1939.. 356,841 40 p.c. = 280,000 76,841 2,815,393
Shares written up, £246,576 .. 3,061,969
Adjustment p. & 1. account, £70,000.. 2,991,969
1940.. 520,388 40 p.c. = 280,000 240,388 3,232,357
1941.. 575,052 50 „ ~ 350,000 225,052 3,457,409
1942.. 462.326 40 „ „ 280,000 182,326 3,639,735
1943.. 368,826 35 „ ~245,000 123,826 3,763,561
1944.. 365,455 35 „ ~ 245,000 120,455 3,884,016
1945.. 327,410 35 „ „ 245,000 82,410 3,966,426
1946.. 536,898 55 „ ~ 385,000 151,898 4,118,324
1947. .1,209,813130 „ „ 910,000 299,813 4,418,137
1948. .1,008,667 100 „ „ 700,000 308,667 4,726,804
1949. .1,787,451120 „ „ 840,000 947,451 5,674,255
The overriding factor in any discussion
of base-metal shares at the present junc-
ture is the future of metal prices.
America is the dominant influence in
the situation. Hopes are that the reces-
sionary trend there, which recently


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Fitter
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.B.W.
The Machinery
People
‘ll
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2821
• Engineers’ Machine Tools. « Portable
Electric Tools • Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All types
Saw Repairs.
Personal and Misting Friends.
TO the next-of-kin of ANDREW
PERRETT, late of Rabaul, New Britain,
in the Territory of New Guinea, Road
Overseer, who became missing on the Ist
July, 1942, and is for official purposes
presumed to be dead. Please communicate
with the Curator of Intestate Estates of
the Territory of New Guinea, adminis-
trator of the estate of the abovenamed
deceased. Any person having information
which would be of value in tracing the
next-of-kin of the deceased is requested to
advise the undersigned.—H. W. HARDY,
Curator of Intestate Estates, Port Moresby,
Papua and New Guinea, 8/10/’49.
TO ARTHUR JACK ALBON formerly of
The Rocket Range Woomera in the State
of South Australia but now of parts un-
known.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
MARY GRAHAM ALBON has instituted
proceedings for a divorce on the ground of
desertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Office of the Prothonotary of
the Supreme Court of Victoria at Mel-
bourne on or before the Ninth day of
January One thousand nine hundred and
fifty the case may proceed in your absence
IF you intend to defend the suit you must
also file an answer in the said office on
or before the Nineteenth day of January
One thousand nine hundred and fifty AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the sealed
copy petition and copy citation in this
suit can be inspected at the office of the
Petitioner’s Solicitor, NORMAN LANDAU,
415 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
\
11
la
S'
SS
Wn
m
v*
H
m
z
vi
m.
It’s new ! A streamlined Chrome Set that you’ll
delight to use and be proud to own. The automatic
shaving angle and Superkeen “Gem” Blades of sur-
gical steel, give cool, clean, drag-free shaves that
keep you neat and avoid 5 o’clock shadow.
New “GEM” de luxe Chrome Sets
if “Gem” Chromium Plated Streamline Model in handsome
case of Ivory Plastic with 5 “Gem” double-life Blades. 20/-.
if Also new Chrome Strop Outfit with automatic stropper, as
illustrated, complete with 8 'Blades in Ivory Plastic Gift
Case. 35/-.
“Gem” Double-life Blades, 5 for 1/9. Sold Everywhere.
New GEM
Streamlined Chrome Sets
flattened out, will not reappear;
and U.S. Government stockpil-
ing, which is expected to take
about 60,000 tons lead for the
third quarter and 40,000 tons
for the last quarter of 1949,
promises to be a stout prop on
the demand side. Later on costs,
grade of ore, and mill efficiency,
etc,, will become much more
important factors than they are
today.
Over three-quarters of the lead
produced at the Port Pirie (S.
Aus.) smelters is exported,
mainly to U.K, and partly to
U.S., and the balance is sold
locally at the pegged price of
£A3S a ton. The average over-
all figure the co. received for
lead last term isn’t mentioned,
but overseas metal prices kept
on rising until March last,
when the New York market
broke and British prices were
adjusted to American parities.
Here are the N. S. Wales Gov-
ernment statistician’s average
figures, Australian currency, for
metal shipments, f.o.b. Port
Pirie;
Average Prices.
Lead, Zinc,*
Per Ton. Per Ton.
Year to
Dec, 1946 .. £56 8 6 £55 0 2
„ 1947 .. 90 2 0 67 6 4
„ 1948 .. 11l 4 11 77 2 0
6 Mills, to
Dec, 1948 .. 122 7 0 80 0 4
3 Mths. to
Mar., 1949 .. 138 0 4 ‘ 119 2 6
Month,
Apl., 1949 .. 108 8 7 110 311
Jne., 1949 .. t 68 12 10
* Electrolytic. t Not available.
The London price of lead shot
up to £SI22 a ton and zinc to
£SB7| a ton following devalua-
tion of sterling in September.
In sympathy with New York, the
London figures have since eased,
and last weekend stood at
£SIO6 10s. a ton for lead,
£SB3 10s. a ton for zinc, and
ss. 4d. (stg.) an ounce for silver.
The North sells its zinc concen-
trates to Electrolytic Zinc
(Risdon), the average return
fluctuating according to overseas
prices and the proportion of
metal sold locally at the pegged
figure of £A4O a ton.
The North has an able and
experienced management and
staff, and a highly-efficient
gravity-cwm-flotation mill and
other plant to handle the rich
silver-lead-zinc ore from a mine
that looks as good at 2600 ft.
and lower as ever it did higher
up.
The sharp increase in last
term’s net earnings was due
primarily to the rise in metal
prices, and partly to bigger
throughput of slightly higher-
grade ore, to reduction of lead
and silver on hand (the lead was
valued in the books at £AI2 10s.
a ton and the silver at Is, Bd. an
ounce) and to a better return
from investments. Mine revenue
shot up by £1,838,369 and the
return from investments by
£46,325:
Revenue— 1948. 1949.
Mine products.. £3,267,620 £5,105,989
Investments ~ 175,612 221,937
£3,443,232 £5,327,956
Expenditure—
Mine . . . . 1,983,114 2,453,562
P. and 1. items 480,290 1,161,913
£2,463,410 £3,615,476
Net profit .. £979,822 £1,712,451
Chief causes of the growth of
£470,448 in mine expenditure
were lifts in the basic wage at
the Barrier (average £7 Is. sd. a
week, up 9s. 7d.) and in the lead
bonus (average £ll a week, up
£2), and inclusion of £101,854
(up £31,336) paid to the mine'
employees’ pension fund and of
£lOO,OOO (up- £50,000) to the
workers’-compensation fund, to-
gether with heavy but unstated
expenditure on prospecting and
development. Larger provisions
for royalties and taxation
(£1,046,500, up £638,500) and de-
preciation (£75,000, up £45,000)
account for the bigger p. and 1.
item.
The net result was a record
declared profit of £1,712,451 (up
£732,629), equal to 12s. 2.5 d. per
ss. share, or 244 p.c. on capital
as against 140 p.c. for the pre-
vious term —the profit figure in
the introductory table includes
the allowance for depreciation.
The div. was lifted from 100 p.c.
to 120 p.c., leaving more in the
business than was distributed —
two new shafts, each to be sunk
to a depth of over 4000 ft., will
presently call for heavy outlay.
An extra 13,700 tons Q£g was
treated:
Ore , Assay
Treated, Lead, Silver, Zinc,
Tons. p.c. Oz. p.c.
1940.. 526,892 15.3 8.8 11.7
1946.. 358,104 14.5 7.8 11.6
1947.. 348,568 14.1 7.6 11.6
1948.. 316,290 13.0 6.6 10.7
1949.. 339,990 13.7 7.2 11.1
Over 76 p.c. of the mill-feed
came from the rich North and
the balance from the lower-
grade British-Junction section of
the property. Metal recoveries
were a trifle lower (97.1 p.c. lead,
92.1 p.c. silver and 86.9 p.c. zinc)
owing to direct treatment of
more semi-oxidised ore.
Proved ore reserves at last two
balancing dates were as follows:
Section- 1948. 1949.
Tons. Tons.
North .. .. 4,669,000 4,620,000
British . . . . 220,000 204,000
Junction .. 194,000 247,000
Block 14 .. 94,000 80,000
Total .. .. 5,177,000 5,151,000
A lot more payable stuff is
known to exist outside and
below measured limits, A start
has been made on the new haul-
age and downcast shaft and the
new upcast shaft that are to
serve the mine to a depth of over
4000 ft. —the winding equipment
is designed to go to 5000 ft,
Meanwhile the hunt for new
mining properties continues.
Most promising of these is the
old Zeehan field (Tas.), where
a lot of unwatering, drilling and
sinking has been done, but no
decision concerning the future
of the field, in which B.H. South
is also interested, has yet been
made.
The robust state of the co.’s
finances are seen in the next
table:
1948. 1949.
Shares in other cos. £2,101,273 £2,395,820
Stores .. . . 174,885 212,358
Concentrates on hand 9,380 3,033
Debtors .. ~ 413,279 677,289
Cash, etc. .. 878,315 1,678,221
Liquid assets .. £3,577,132 £4,966,721
Less liabilities*.. 780,563 1,527,254
Liquid surplus .. £2,796,569 £3,439,467
• Includes provision for taxation.
The growth in the more-or-less
liquid surplus was £642,898.
The market for the co.’s f.-p.
ss. shares, which has followed
the market for the metals, fluc-
tuated between 925. 9d. and
565. 6d. over the last 10 months.
The figure last weekend was
88s. 6d., at which the immediate
return is 6.7 p.c. on a 120 p.c.
div. basis, or 5.8 p.c. on a 100
p.c. distribution.
Kampong: Lanjut Tin
This co., which has a paid
capital of £300,000 in £1 shares,
is in the Anglo-Oriental group.
It has two properties in the
Preak district (Malaya) and two
dredges, which gave a very satis-
factory account of themselves
pre-war. Profit for the year to
March 31 last was £11,836,
which came mainly from
tributes.
Interest now centres chiefly in
the new Wardieburn area, about
five miles n.-e. of Kuala Lum-
pur, where an estimated
36,000,000 c.y., bored to average
about 0.61 b. t. 0., awaits treat-
ment. After the war both
dredges, which were on the
original Kampong Lanjut area,
now uneconomical for further
development, were found sub-
merged and partly dismantled.
No. 2 is now on a care-and-
maintenance basis, pending ac-
quisition of a suitable area (for
which negotiations are proceed-
ing) to which it can be trans-
ferred. No. 1 is in process of
being transferred to the new
Wardieburn area, where it is ex-
pected to set in during the first
half of 1950. It is a Werf-Con-
rad steam-driven 200,000-c.y.-
a-month machine, which is being
converted to electric drive and
equipped with special apparatus
to handle tin-bearing clays.
When the books closed
£56,707 had been spent on re-
habilitation. Only £28,179 had
been borrowed from the Gov-
ernment, which has since ap-
proved a guaranteed loan of
£204,166 to the co. This, to-
gether with £76,868 in cash and
F.M.S. war bonds, is expected
to cover the cost of bringing
No. 1 dredge into operation.
With prices and costs as they
are, and provided satisfactory
recoveries are obtained, 0.61 b.
ground should return good pro-
fits. The big doubt about the
future of tinmining is what will
happen to the price for the
metal; hence the efforts now
being made to come to an inter-
national agreement to regulate
production. Sydney market for
the co.’s scrip stands at par, or
thereabouts.
Yonki Creek Gold, N.L., re-
cently left the stocks in Mel-
bourne with a* nominal capital
of £BO,OOO in 4s. shares, of
which 100,000 (underwritten at
3d. each) were offered and
taken. The vendor (Gold Pros-
pering and Development, N.L.)
was handed 10,000 paids as
part consideration for an option
over two auriferous sluicing
claims on Yonki and Ornapinka
Creeks, in the Kainantu district.
New Guinea, and two hydraulic
sluicing plants and auxiliary
equipment. The vendor is pros-
pecting other areas in the same
locality, which, if results are
good enough, are also to be
taken over by this co. The
total amount of consideration in
cash and f.-p. shares “cannot be
determined Until the areas have
been completely tested,” the
prospectus says. J. C. Coldham
tested the Yonki Creek ground
by pitting for the following re-
sults :
Value,
Section. c.y. c.y.
A .. .. 160,000 19.5 grs.
B .. ~ 50,000 29.0 „
O ~ ~ 20,000 8.2 „
The wash, which is covered by
a clayey overburden, rests on de-
composed granite, contains large
boulders and averages about sft,
in thickness. Costs per c.y. in
each section are estimated at
25., 3s. and Is. 9d. respectively,
giving a profit per yard of 6s. Id.
A, 9s. B and Is. 9d. C, the
aggregrate overall working pro-
fit being £72,900, or over three
times present issued capital. That
was with gold at £lO 15s. 3d, an
ounce. The recent lift in the
price of the metal will add 2.36 d.
per grain to values, thus giving
the aggregate working profit a
handsome lift. Costs are based
on a throughput of 40,000 c.y,
p.a. from two faces, giving a
life of over five years, with the
possibility of more pay-dirt be-
coming available. The extensive
flats at the junction of Orna-
pinka Creek and the Ramu
River were found unpayable.
but beaches on the upper reaches
of the creek, only partly tested,
“should be profitable as a side-
line to production at Yonki.”
On the board are E. G. Banks,
A. P, Flockart, L. G. May and
C. G. Robinson. /
* * * *
At the annual roll-up on
November 30 shareholders in
Gold Exploration and Finance
Co. of Australia, which trans-
ferred its domicile from London
to Melbourne at the beginning
of 1949, will be asked to sanc-
tion sale of the co.’s assets
(shares in a number of gold ven-
tures) to Western Mining Corp.
The price is reported to be
£369,154 in 1,746,618 f.-p. ss.
shares in W.M.C. Since G.E.
and F. (paid capital £913,016 in
10s. stock units) already holds
1,262,432 W.M.C. shares, it will
have 2,739,050 of these shares
available for distribution among
those on its own register in the
proportion of three for two.


AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LIMITED
Highlights from 1948-1949 Annual Report
AUSTRALIAN Paper Manufacturers Limited, which is the major
producer of wrapping papers and cardboards in the Commonwealth
has just published an illustrated Annual Report providing a review of
the activities of the Company during the year ended June 30th, 1949.
Some of the main features of the Report, which was issued on 27th
October, are presented in this summary.
The Net Profit for the Year was £260,695.
While this figure was approximately
£24,000 less than in 1947/48 the Board
feels that it is satisfactory in all the
circumstances.
During the financial year overseas raw
materials —notably woodpulps—fell in price
substantially. In arriving at the reduced
profit shown the Directors decided to
write down materially the value of stocks
of woodpulps. This heavy writing down
had to come from what would otherwise
have been profits for the year. Conse-
quently the Company is in a much stronger
postion to meet the competition from
overseas finished products coming from
those countries which also supply A.P.M.’s
imported pulps.
During the past year two major steps
were taken to raise further funds for the
development programme. Firstly, an
issue was made in December, 1948 of
2,080,000 ordinary shares of £1 each, at
a premium of 5/- each. The whole of
this issue was taken up by the Australasian
Paper & Pulp Co. Ltd. Secondly, a second
series of 10,000 debentures of £lOO each
was issued in May, 1949, repayable in
20-25 years and bearing interest at the
rate of £4% per annum.
The policy of the Board of A.P.M., which
has been publicly stated on various oc-
casions, is to cater for the requirements
of Australia in the wrapping and packaging
fields to the maximum possible extent;
to achieve the maximum possible efficiency;
to sell its products at the lowest possible
prices recognising its responsibilities in
peace and in war to the Australian
community and, as far as the shareholders
in its holding Company (The Australasian
Paper & Pulp Co. Ltd.) are concerned,
to aim at a dividend rate to ordinary
shareholders of 8% per annum after
providing reserves which are adequate
for all purposes.
★ ★ ★
Raw Materials.
Last year A.P.M, used the following
tonnages of fibrous raw materials (in
round figures);—
Imported long-fibred
woodpulp ... ... 25,000 tons.
Local short-fibred eucalypt
woodpulp produced at
Mary vale pulpmill ... 40,000 tons,
Wastepaper plus some straw
and a little steamed ground-
wood 75,000 tons.
The second vital group of supplies con-
sists of fuel for the raising of process
steam and power generation. The principal
tonnages of solid fuels used were :
NEW SOUTH WALES—
Black Coal ... ... 56,000 tons.
VICTORIA—
Maryvale Brown coal
from the State Electricity
Commission’s Open Cut
at Yallourn 93,000 tons.
Fairfield, Melbourne and
Broadford Mills—
Brown Coal from an Open
Cut at Bacchus Marsh
owned and operated by
Maddingley Brown Coal
Pty. Ltd.—a subsidiary
of A.P.M 108,000 tons.
(Maddingley also contrib-
uted 40,000 tons of brown
coal to the Melbourne
Market.)
In addition to the solid fuels some fuel
oil was used.
★ ★ ★
Mills Produced 130,206 Tons during the
Year.
Notwithstanding shorter hours worked
in the industry, the total output of papers
and boards from the five mills of the
Company was 130,206 tons in 1948/49
as compared with 128,480 tons in the
previous year.
The production of pulp at Maryvale Mill
reached a record of 41,343 tons, the output
in the previous year having been 39,433 tons.
Due mainly to the effect of the introduction
of the forty-hour week the total number of
machine-hours was some 3,000 lower than
in the previous year. This was so in
spite of the fact that the co-operation
of the employees and their Unions, both
in Victoria and New South Wales, enabled
a moderate amount of overtime operation
to be continued.
★ ★ ★
Industrial Relations.
At the end of the financial year the total
number of people employed directly by
the Company was 5,130. For such a
working force the objective of full em-
ployment, efficient production, healthy
and pleasant conditions of work and
harmonious relations are worth-while
goals for which A.P.M. constantly aims.
During the year the “Training Within
Industry” programme, which has been so
successful in England and America during
and since the war, was introduced at
Botany mill and all at supervisory levels
have studied the course. The scheme is
now being extended into the Victorian
Mills. This is, of course, only a beginning
and it is intended to extend the training
of supervisory staff to all levels of manage*
ment as well as to develop more intensively
the technical training of employees and
staff who are prepared to undergo formal
education in the technical aspects of their
work.
As part of the Company’s policy of bring-
ing employees into partnership, arrange-
ments were made during the past year
for 100,000 Ordinary Shares in The
Australasian Paper & Pulp Co. Ltd., to
be offered to those employed by A.P.M.
and its subsidiaries. This was done at
the same time as The Australasian Paper
& Pulp Co. Ltd. made its issue to its
shareholders. To help employees and
staff to purchase these shares, A.P.M,
undertook to pay for them as required
by the terms of issue, and to deduct
threepence per share per week from wages
and salaries until the shares were fully
paid for. It is gratifying to note that this
share issue for employees was heavily
oversubscribed.
★ ★ ★
Research.
The major field of research work of this
Company for some years past has been
concerned with the problems of pulping
our Australian eucalypt hardwood and the
conversion of that pulp into paper. In
recent years emphasis has been placed on
the production of special types of pulp.
In the world to-day, the already large
demand for such as raw materials for other
industries including textiles, transparent
cellulose film, lacquers, cosmetics and
explosives, is increasing.
As is well known, A.P.M. made an im-
portant contribution in the munitions field
during the war in the production of large
tonnages of high alpha cellulose pulp for
propellants. In that emergency, much
pulp was produced from softwood as the
most direct means of satisfying the demand.
Research on eucalypt hardwood has
shown that the prospects are very en-
couraging for producing special pulps
from this material, which is much more
readily available than softwoods. The
development of this process to the com-
mercial scale is in progress.
★ ★ ★
Expansion Programme.
The Maryvale pulpmill is in course of
expansion from a capacity of 40,000 tons
per annum to 67,000 tons per annum.
Concurrently the capacity of the mill for
producing bleached pulps is being extended.
Four new machines constitute the main
features of the first stage of the development
programme. When they are all in pro-
duction the total annual output of papers
and cardboards will exceed 200,000 tons.
In addition to these new machines A.P.M.
is, in the same stage, modifying and
extending several of its older machines.
As an essential corollary to these new
installations, an extensive programme of
steam and power plant expansion is in hand.
★ ★ ★
Queensland Mill.
A.P.M.’s plans for the construction of
this new mill in Queensland are pro-
ceeding satisfactorily. Petrie is a small
township on the North Pine River about
17 miles north of Brisbane. An excellent
site has been acquired which provides
good road and rail access with proximity
to adequate water supply and facilities
for disposal of effluent.
Technical officers of the Company are at
present in England settling the final
design if the first machine to be installed.
This is to produce 15,000 tons a year of
cardboard initially with provision for
expansion as the demand grows.
A.P.M. pays tribute to the excellent
co-operation and assistance which it has
had from the Queensland Government
and the various Government Departments
during the past two or three years of
exploration and negotiation.
★ ★ ★
Copies of the full Report are obtainable
on application to the offices of the
Company in Melbourne and Sydney.
2 ' .. • •- -y
AUSTRALIAN PAPER MANUFACTURERS LIMITED
AIRMAN STREET. SOUTH MELBOURNE * McCAULEY STREET, NATRAVILLE, N.S.W.
57
Business Robbery Etc.
The Hartnett Car
L. J. Hartnett has hit upon a
novel plan for producing his
novel car. Most of the parts for
the car (which was designed in
France) will apparently be made
under contract in a number of
British factories, then shipped to
Australia for assembly on the
spot by various accredited dis-
tributors in each State. The
Hartnett Motor Co., which was
registered in Melbourne last
month and invites the public to
subscribe £lOO,OOO in ss. shares
at par, has the job of dovetail-
ing the work of all these manu-
facturing and assembling units.
The original plan—to make
the car entirely in Australia —
has only been postponed, ac-
cording to the prospectus, which
says that present shortages of
materials, labor and power make
the full plan “inopportune.”
A few months ago Mr. Hart-
nett approached the Common-
wealth Bank and the Victorian
Government for financial assist-
ance for the manufacturing, but
both bodies seem to have been
noncommittal.
When Mr. Hartnett resigned
from the managing-directorship
of General Motors in 1947 —the
Holden car was then in the de-
velopmental stage he went
overseas to confer with motor-
manufacturers and designers
with the object of putting a low-
priced car on the Australian
market. He was most attracted
by a proposition from a Paris
concern, Le Societe des Brevets
J. A. Gregoire (known as
5.8. G.). This is purely a re-
search organisation which de-
signs and acts as consultant to
French car-makers.
Mr. Hartnett was particularly
interested in the “AF/G”
model. It is not clear how many
of these cars are actually in
existence. “Four prototypes
have been thoroughly tested
oyer varying terrain and in
different climates,” according
to the prospectus. One has been
on test in Australia for several
months. Between Sydney and
Melbourne it averaged “47
miles an hour with a petrol con-
sumption of 52 miles per gal-
lon.”
The extreme lightness of the
model results from the use of
aluminium alloy castings (in-
stead of steel) for the chassis-
frame and for many of the
major components. A variable-
rate rear suspension is designed
to help its riding ability. The
Australian retail price of an
assembled saloon model is ex-
pected, “under prevailing con-
ditions,” to be about £430, plus
sales tax.
For the manufacturing rights
Hartnett Motor Co. will pay
S.B.G. £lO,OOO in cash, £ll,OOO
in scrip and a royalty of 0.5 p.c.
on net profits. Hartnett Motor’s
other main obligation is to issue
£lO,OOO in fully-paid scrip to a
promoting company (Hartnett
Holdings Pty.) after it has sold
250 cars and has shown a net
profit amounting to 10 p.c. on
its capital in any year.
Maoriland Banking
Banks in Maoriland have been
feeling the pinch of tight Reserve
Bank controls, and have been
embarrassed by growth of idle
funds. Here’s what the Bank of
New Zealand, Maoriland’s lead-
ing financial institution, now
State-owned, has to say in its
third annual report since share-
holders were bought out: “While
control of advances by the Re-
serve Bank has worked as
smoothly as can be expected, it
results in considerable first-class
loan business having to be de-
clined on account of the restric-
tions, with resultant accumula-
tion of idle money. The cost of
ingathering and holding deposits
is steadily increasing, and un-
less a proper proportion of these
funds can be used to earn in-
terest the effect on the bank’s net
earnings must be adverse.”
This goes for the other five
trading banks in N.Z. —four of
them Australian-owned —as well
as for the Bank of N.Z. For
more than two years the Reserve
Bank has been holding a tight
rein, under Treasury pressure, in
a so far not-too-successful
attempt to curb inflation, which
has been fed by over-readiness
to manufacture new money for
Labor-Socialist ends.
Bank lending has been banned
or throttled for half a dozen
different purposes—speculation,
investment, capital expenditure
in business and on farms, repay-
ing mortgages, hire-purchase and
other credit sales, luxury spend-
ing, and building construction or
refinancing homes—but paper
prosperity has continued to flow,
under an ever-rising volume of
public funds. Lately there have
been signs of a coming change,
as deposits have dropped back
and advances have jumped a bit,
but it’s too early to say whether
they amount to much.
Canadian Trade Fair
How many manufacturers
realise that next year’s Trade
Fair in Toronto, Canada, is an
international event, bringing
potential buyers as well as ex-
hibitors from all parts of the
world? Canadians appreciate
their country’s special interest in
pepping-up trade everywhere—
even where Canada herself isn’t
directly involved.
This fair is not a gala fete
designed to entertain sight-
seers ; it caters exclusively for
bona fide buyers who represent
vast markets. Just now, when
Australia’s pound is heavily
undervalued on the foreign ex-
change, the opportunity should
exist for putting many of our
secondary and primary products
on the map for the first time.
Canada’s Trade Commissioner
in Sydney is convinced that it
does, and will quote chapter and
verse to those interested.
Modem (N.-L.) Hotels
Modern (Non-licensed) Hotels,
Ltd., will receive £85,000 from
Qantas Airways for the non-
resumed portion of its land in
Hunter-street, Sydney. This
comprises about three-quarters
of the site bought by the co. in
1936 to erect a temperance hotel.
No compensation price has been
announced so far for the re-
maining quarter, which has been
resumed by the County Council
for the extension of Elizabeth-
street.
It looks as though the long-
suffering shareholders are going
to get a much better ultimate re-
turn of capital than if they had
followed their previous board’s
advice to wind up in 19j6, but
still not the full amount that
they invested (£138,000). Last
week’s sale at £85,000 (handled
by L. J. Hooker, Ltd.) compares
with an original cost of £40,000
for the whole block. The rest of
the invested capital went in
“preliminary expenses” that
didn’t raise a stone upon a stone.
Collapse of Colton-growing
Having Jiooked into the cot-
ton-growing industry, which is
mainly centred in Queensland,
the Tariff Board found it to be
“in a state of collapse,” and ad-
vised the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment that further financial
assistance to cotton-growing
isn’t justified. Mr, Chifley, be-
fore seeing the report, said his
Government would consider a
guaranteed price after studying
the report. He’ll have to be
careful of what he says —if he
says anything before December
10.
The Tariff Board declared it
wasn’t blind to the national
value of a cotton-growing in-
dustry, and it expected the world
price of cotton to remain high
for several years. But it couldn’t
recommend Government assist-
ance because it couldn’t see an
adequate return for it, either in
cotton output or prospects of a
permanent industry.
Cotton-growing has, for all prac-
tical purposes, ceased in Queensland.
This is not due to lack of assist-
ance by the Commonwealth and
State Governments, nor to any lack
of effort by the Queensland Agricul-
ture Department or the Cotton
Marketing Board, but to the fact that
farmers would not grow cotton while
they received very high prices tor
wheat, meat and dairy products.
Short of a change of these
conditions and a long education
campaign to teach growers to
produce cotton efficiently, the
board believes Government
assistance would be useless.


s'Tt
£ j
Established 1808 in Reign of,
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas’* has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
Write or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7, G.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pollen, Public Trustee.
Memorise eaSE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
12 IToanger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria,
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divoece,
TO KEITH RONALD 'SURMON late of
Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that ELSIE
EDNA SURMON has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 8580 of 1949 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 17 th of January
1950 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from WILLIAM LANDER,
Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.—
(t.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
ŵ
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
The most compelling feature
of the 70th Conservative-party
conference (Earl’s Court, Octo-
ber 12-14) was the persistence
with which one delegate after
another stressed the urgent need
to tell the electorate the hard
truth, burking neither facts nor
fundamentals. In mood the con-
ference was firm and realistic,
with no inclination for stunts or
partisan fervor. It may well be
that this sterner attitude to-
wards the present unhappy state
of the country’s affairs marks a
change in the political fortunes
of the Tories. They have, up
till recently, been shy of expres-
sing positively the hard fact
that severe retrenchment must
come before Britain can hope to
march with confidence along the
right road. They know from
experience the glib facility with
which Socialist speakers can
take a quite harmless statement,
turn it inside out and cloak it
with terrible and sinister effect.
So the, tendency familiar
enough in party politics—has
been to express intentions, if
scarcely promises, that were
more desirable than practicable
and to avoid saying anything
that might hurt.
What has been overlooked is
that many—perhaps indeed the
bulk —of the electorate are sick
to suffocation of the wrangle
and bickering, in extremis, of
party politics. Ordinary men and
women know, far better than
most politicians realise, how
sadly they lack leadership and
how Socialism since 1945 has
not only let them down but also
how it has sought to deceive
them. To the ordinary citizen
going about his affairs it is
rather as if he had been thrust
to one side while a new privi-
leged class, those in current
political favor, made merry sub-
stantially at his expense. Out
of favor is, as it were, out of
mind — except, of course, as a
source of revenue. And that is
hardly government of the
people.
Election Off
The Prime Minister’s decision
not to hold a general election
this year brought only tempor-
ary relief. It stilled anxiety for
a day or two, but the prevailing
lack of confidence soon re-
turned. Both business and in-
dustry tend to be slowed down
by the uncertainty and inaction
hanging over them.
The other two political parties
were naturally disappointed—
the Tories especially—as they
were eager for the hustings. The
Liberals have been very active,
mainly in local organisations,
for some time. They justly seek
recognition for their contribu-
tion to social legislation and
also claim to be the only party
capable of representing all
classes. But it would be mis-
leading to suggest their immedi-
ate resurgence as a political
force. Many promising candi-
dates have been won over by
the Tories, and the “middle”
elector won’t be inclined to risk
throwing away his vote in a
three-cornered contest. The
Conservative-party machine is
geared almost to top perform-
ance, and, with public-advice
bureaux, other voluntary ser-
vices and roots in the trade-
unions, conscientiously strives to
break down the stubborn class
barriers.
No less disappointed over the
election decision was the or-
dinary citizen, who feels that if
only the Government would get
on with its rightful business he’d
be able to get on with his. The
national interest demanded a
general election and nothing
less. That there was little sur-
prise at the Government’s de-
cision only confirmed the accept-
ance of the Labor attitude —
party before all else. To have
gone to the polls might have
been interpreted as a confession
of insufficiency or at least as a
loss of face. To run the full
term will be sweet and tidy, with
Labor’s golden jubilee next
February to add an aura of
celebration and self-satisfaction
and spurious triumph. It is
rather as if a man had occu-
pied an islet after enviously seek-
ing it for many years and who,
although the waters were rising
fast, persisted in staying on to
celebrate his birthday,
T urning-point ?
Mr. Churchill, addressing a
mass meeting in the vast Em-
press Hall on the last night of
the conference, endorsed the
mood of the delegates in his
characteristically lucid style. He
spoke quietly, using little
rhetoric or gesture, and let the
content of his speech have its
own effect. At pains to promise
nothing that could not be ful-
filled, he declared that it would
be far better to lose the election
than to win it on false pretences,
He repudiated the taunt that the
Tories were a class party and
emphatically rejected the
double falsehood propagated
by men like Mr. Attlee, Mr.
Bevin, Mr. Herbert Morrison
and Sir Stafford Cripps that it
is they who have prevented un-
employment after the war and
that the Conservatives would
deliberately use mass unemploy-
ment as an economic weapon.”
“We offer,” said Mr.
Churchill, “no smooth or easy
path to the British nation, now
fighting for its life almost as it
did in the war...,The Con-
servative party will do its best
for all, without fear or favor,
without class or party bias, with-
out rancor or spite, but with
clear and faithful simplicity as
we did in the days of Dunkirk.”
Mr. Churchill was, of course,
speaking to his own party, but
it is significant that the passages
which were most applauded
were those bearing upon the
national peril. It is now earnestly
to be hoped that the message
of “toil and tears” will not be
shelved when the delegates are
back in their constituencies. A
Doctor’s Mandate is the only
valid basis upon which a new
Government can be formed, and
the duties, after five years of
waste and incompetence, will be
exacting and onerous. It is not
enough that the doctor should
be well-qualified and practised:
he must also treat all his patients
with equal fairness, and he must
give them the right medicine,
however unpleasant it may be.
As the single effective alterna-
tive to Socialism the Tories are
taking shape. While few, even
among themselves, can afford to
feel complacent about the task
in front of them and their
present power to sweep the
country it does seem, neverthe-
less, that they now are on the
right road.
Theatrical Sensation
Many stories are being told
about the most exciting week
the West End theatre has known
since the war. Of four first
nights, including Bernard Shaw’s
latest play and the opening of
the Old Vic. season, one has so
overshadowed the rest that the
streets of London seem to be
filled with disappointed play-
goers who can’t book the seats
they want, Tennessee Wil-
liams’s “A Street-car Named
Desire” can literally be called a
smashing success,
Without knowing whether the
play’s reputation for what has
been variously termed poetry,
salacity and squalid brutality is
a greater draw than Vivien
Leigh’s longer-than-Hamlet part
under her husband’s patient
direction, this Bulletin scribe
can only report, from first-hand
knowledge, that there is a very
long queue for tickets and that
Sir Laurence Olivier himself is
unable to get them for his
friends. Judgment must neces-
sarily be withheld until the end
of the year. Any Australians
coming to London who wish to
see the Oliviers’ new success
would be wise to ask friends to
get their tickets about a fortnight
before they sail or two months
before they board their planes.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Gypsy Bacchante Melbourne knows,
Not roses red, but flashing rows
Of horseshoes lure the belles and beaux.
And cities north and east and west
Are drained of manpower, as you’ve guessed.
So Sydney, glum, on small beer sups,
And envies Melbourne in her Cups!
In these days of narrowing housing-
space, the home with a ballroom belongs
to an almost-vanished species. So when
Government House goes gala and sends
out cards for a dance every girl wears
her prettiest frock to grace the vice-
regal ballroom. Probably G.H. chan-
deliers have never shed their light on a
more attractive scene than last Thursday
night’s. The dancers were all young, the
girls still in their ’teens. Bouffant white,
palely-pink, palely-blue frocks were in
the majority. Tulle and organza and
broderie Anglaise were favorite fabrics.
The night was warm and windless, and
from the terrace, carpeted and set about
with the long upholstered seats from the
ballroom, the gardens stretched cool and
still. In the drawing-room the Governor
and Miss Elizabeth Northcott received
the guests. Miss Northcott’s frock of
pastel-pink hailspot satin was cut slimly.
The neckline was graceful, an almost
classic look about its upstanding
collar. Her sister, Mrs. Donald Coburn,
up from Wollongong for the party,
mingled ice-blue tulle and blue lame —
the skirt was of the tulle, and very bouf-
fant. Lobelia-blue lace and satin formed
Sheila Collett’s attractive frock.
Anne Berryman, fair and blue-eyed,
charmed in a sherbet of white organza,
and Jan Crossing, in white broderie
Anglaise, the skirt very full, the bodice
in the one-shoulder-strap style, was noted.
Mrs. Alexis Albert’s froth of white tulle
had a midsummer-night look about it.
Robin Stanton, in suave black, struck a
different note. Pat Kerr’s soft-pink satin
brocades were among things admired.
Sue Playfair was among the white-frocked
young dancers, as was Jennifer Snelling,
whose pearl Juliet cap caught the gaze.
Tall, slim and fair was Susan King in
cool-looking coral-and-white stripes.
Altogether there were 300 guests, the
girls were pretty and smiling and
exquisitely frocked; the orchestra was
good, the flood-lit gardens inviting—alto-
gether a successful party.
Lovers of Celtic lore (the English, Irish
or Welsh family) will be pleased to hear
that Clement Hosking, president of the
Celtic Society of Australia, and of the
Folk Lore Association, has written the
story of his travels among the Hebrides.
Into this book has gone all the vast
knowledge and background of the subject
that caused the high chieftains of Celtic
Research in Scotland to welcome the
Australian as a brother and create him a
bard. In the chapters occur many pen-
portraits of the characters great and
picturesque Clement met in his journeys
through the Isles. Fine Song for Sing-
ing is due in the bookshops soon.
Barbara Knox, president of the Bush
Book Club, returned to Sydney after
eight months overseas with a sackful of
splendid books signed by Jheir topnotch
authors. These, of course, are prizes in
the Book Ballot being organised to aid
the Bush Book Club. Last Friday the
8.8. C. welcomed its president with smiles,
sherry and savory biscuits —the last so
good that their recipe should be a high
prize in the ballot. Everybody buy-
ing a ticket gets a book. Of course, they
won’t all have autographs, but each will
be worth the 15s. paid for the chance.
The room was simply bursting with
lovely books last Friday. There’s
a first edition of Conrad Martens given
by Lionel Lindsay and signed by him.
There’s a first edition of The Sentimental
Bloke, also of Ginger Mick. A
(small) set of Thackeray complete in
leather-case is this Letter’s big hope. The
address of the club is 19 Bligh-street,
Phone number, 8W3934.
There was a queue right into Pitt-street
waiting to get into Jean Carling’s
Hallowe’en party at the Ballet and
Theatre Club last Sunday. To help the
Society of Women Writers singers,
dancers and actors came along, and pre-
sented a series of acts as entertaining as
any star music-hall bill. There was a
conjuror, too —Mr. Garling—whose patter
was as smooth as his tricks. Jean herself
told the story of witchcraft down the
ages, adding a few spells and incanta-
tions for good measure.
Next Saturday afternoon, November 5,
the grounds of Elaine, the Vincent
Fairfax home at Double Bay, will present
a stirring pageant of Merrie England.
The pageant, under the auspices of the
Royal Society of St. George, has been
organised to aid the Canterbury Cathedral
Restoration Fund. Manly’s M.L.A.
Darby and Mrs. Darby are taking active
part in stage-managing next Saturday’s
production. It will show Britannia
(Beverley Bridges) being crowned by St.
George (E. A. Nicholls, of Gilbert and
Sullivan renown). Grouped around will
be 110 of Britain’s famed sons and
daughters, starting with Boadicea and
ending with Winston Churchill—a small
boy from Artarmon school complete with
bulldog and cigar. Raymond Beatty and
Heather Kinnaird will add their rich
voices.
Sydney women readers of thrillers are
mopping up Margery Allingham’s More
Work for the Undertaker. It is packed
with the atmosphere of a London when
the tellers in the Conservative banks drew
on white gloves before handling filthy
lucre to their clients. Not that the story
goes back to those days. Its characters
are descendants of a family wealthy in
the ’eighties and family now
only rich in brains, who do crossword
puzzles in Latin and occasionally take a
swipe at turf guides. It’s great fun.
French soprano Ninon Vallin, who has
been giving a series of concerts in Sydney
Town Hall and who has held her large
audiences with the suave beauty of her
work, is pictured here. Ninon, now giving
concerts in Melbourne, is booked for two
more recitals in this city’s Town Hall—
one on Tuesday, November 8, the second
on Thursday, November 10.
Members of the Killara Music Club
had a grand night of reunion last week.
Clem Q. Williams, now on the staff of
the Elder Conservatorium in Adelaide,
and his wife, pianist Enid Conley, who
ranked among Sydney’s favorite concert
artists till first Canada and then Adelaide
stole them away, were, with Dorothy
White, the stars on the programme. Clem
sang and Enid played his accompani-
ments, and in the very end he sang a
group of aborigine songs. The applause
following this group nearly lifted the
roof off the Soldiers’ Memorial Hall.
Dorothy White was the night’s solo
pianist, and her work was brilliant and
sensitive. Every seat in the hall was
taken. Mr. and Mrs. Hope Gibson
brought a large party, among their guests
being Commander Hudson, of the R.N.,
and his wife, lately settled on the North-
shore Line.
Late this afternoon, from five to seven
o’clock, the Victoria League is holding
a reception to farewell Rear-Admiral and
Mrs. Farncomb. The Admiral has been
appointed to Washington.
On Thursday, November 3, North
Sydney branch of the C.W.A. will hold
its Twenty-third Birthday Party at 2 p.m.
at the Gas Company’s Auditorium, 286
Pacific Highway, Crow’s Nest. On
Mondaj', November 14, Eastern Suburbs
celebrates its Silver Jubilee at History
House, 8 Young-street, at 2 p.m. A
musical programme will be arranged, and
Mrs, Sydney Herring, foundation presi-
dent, and other original members will
be present.
On Friday the annual meeting of the
Crown-street Women’s Hospital will be
held at Canonbury, Darling Point-road.
The hour is 3 p.m. The Governor, Lieut.-
General Northcott, will preside.
N. 8.: The Guides’ Own Service on
Sunday evening, November 6, in Sydney
Town Hall in the presence of the Gover-
nor, Lieut.-General John Northcott, and
Mrs. Northcott, who is the State president
of the Girl Guides. The annual meeting
for the Institution of the Deaf and Dumb
and the Blind, at the Darlington Assembly
Hall, Prince’s Highway, on November 9 ;
and on November 10, Mr. Cramp, of the
Historical Society, will tell the history
of Kurnell (accompanied by pictures) in
the clubrooms of the Women Pioneers’
Society; the Christmas Fair meeting for
the Lady Mayoress’s Fund will be in the
Town Hall on November 8 at 11 o clock.
From Melbourne
The Governor, Lady Brooks and their
daughter Jeanette attended the Victoria
League’s Empire Ball at St. Kilda Town
Hall. Set on the wall at the back of the
official table and flanked by floral pieces
of white azaleas, poppies, arum-lilies and
iris were portraits of the King and
Queen. On the official supper-table were
silver candelabra, bowls of white stocks,
azaleas, arum-lilies and garlands of lily-
of-the-valley. Small coffee-tables were
set in the alcove in front of the table, on
which were set posies of deep-red roses
and rhododendrons framed in silver-
paper frills. The vice-regal party was
welcomed by Mrs. Russell Grimwade,
president of the ball committee. Lady
Brooks’s silver-blue brocade gown had
a flowing skirt with fullness from the hip-
line ; the bodice had wide shoulder-
straps extending to tiny epaulettes,
and silver buttons from bodice to
hemline. Jeanette Brooks’s bouffant
gown was of white embroidered Swiss
organdie, a small matching cape covering
the strapless bodice. Wife of the Gover-
nor’s private secretary, Col. R. W. Sprag-
gett, was in black tulle over faille, with
tulle edging the folded fichu of the
bodice. Patricia Edge’s strapless gown
of orchid-toned ninon was worn over
deep-lilac taffeta and with a matching
stole. Of oyster-grey satin was Mrs.
Russell Grimwade’s gown. A lovely
gown of deep-burgundy moire was worn
by Lady Herring.
With her ivory-satin gown, with its
touches of black lace, Mrs. lan Connell
wore a black lace stole. Amber-toned
tulle scattered with gold sequins fashioned
the gown Mrs. James Buchanan wore.
Mrs. Bowen Allen had clusters, of gay
field-flowers at the back of the bodice
of her gold-toned crepe gown, A gown
of pale-lilac chiffon and a hip-length
matching jacket made graceful combina-
tion for the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S.
Disney. Lady Snow effectively merged
filmy beige tulle and black lace in her
strapless gown. Mrs. Lindsey Biggins’s
bouffant frock of pastel-blue chiffon had
one shoulder bare. A pink satin sash
was contrast for the white organdie
gown worn by Elizabeth Cahill. Mrs.
Dick Noone’s strapless gown of aqua-
blue satin had gold and pearl em-
broideries on the bodice.
Mrs. Ronald Nott, who is noted for her
smart dressing, was hostess at a dinner-
party at her Toorak home after the Mel-
bourne Cup. Later in the month she
leaves in the Ceramic for an extended
holiday abroad. Photo by Dorothy
Welding.
Three hundred guests accepted the in-
vitation of U.S. Consul-General Samuel
J. Fletcher and Mrs. Fletcher to a recep-
tion for U.S. Ambassador Pete Jarman
and Mrs. Jarman. “Old Glory” hovered
benevolently over the floral decorations,
the handiwork of the hostess. Mrs.
Fletcher’s slim-skirted dinner gown of
ciel-blue crepe had long sleeves and a
draped skirt. Mrs. Jarman’s pale-spring-
green Chantilly lace gown was also long-
sleeved ; a purple orchid ornamented the
neckline. Mrs. Adrian Perry, wife of the
U.S. Naval Attache, wore silver lame
embossed with bright red flowers. Mrs.
Jules Bernard’s black crepe gown
had bright gold motifs trimming
the deep V decollete of the bodice.
Mrs. W. Killough added a black
osprey-trimmed evening hat to her
black satin frock. Vice-Consul Mrs.
Helene Fischer wore a cocktail frock of
deep-lilac satin and a pale-blue grosgrain
hat. Her daughter Evelyn topped her
grey moire taffetas with a wide-brimmed
black straw hat. Under a mink coat
Mrs. Bertie Hotchkiss wore a black crepe
frock. A sweeping grey ostrich feather
was set in the grey hat Lady Clapp wore
with her black frock and Scotch mole
coat. Mrs. L. J. McConnart’s beige-
taffeta-trimmed hat offset her black frock.
Mrs. E. J. Holloway had pink roses in
her black hat; a pink ostrich-feather
adorned the hat worn by Mrs. A.
Drakeford. Mrs. Harold Holt had white
lilac trimming her small white hat, which
she wore with a navy jacket-suit.
Madame Wang’s national costume was
made of sea-green brocaded satin.
At the Navy Week Ball held at Earl’s
Court, St. Kilda, humorous posters
lined the foyer, whilst the official
enclosure was decorated to represent the
quarter-deck of a ship, banked with
deep-red roses. On the official supper-
table was a floral aircraft-carrier; in
making it Mr. and Mrs. Alwyn Spicer
made ingenious use of red and white
rhododendrons, lily-of-the-valley and
roses. During the evening pretty girls in
nautical whites danced a hornpipe, and
p.t. instructors from Flinders Naval
Depot put on a good display.
The Governor, Lady Brooks and their
daughter Jeanette were welcomed by the
president of the ball committee, Mrs. H.
A. Showers, Commodore Showers, Com-
modore W. Dallmeyer and Mrs. Dall-
meyer. A large official party included
the Lieut.-Governor, Sir Edmund Her-
ring, and his wife, the First Naval Mem-
ber, Rear-Admiral J. A. Collins, Ad-
miral J. A. S. Eccles, R.N., Rear-Ad-
miral C. T. M, Pizey and Mrs. Pizey,
the Chief Secretary, Mr. Leggatt, and
Mrs. Leggatt and the Lord Mayor, Cr.
J. S. Disney, and Mrs. Disney. Lady
Brooks’s gown was of floral ninon, its
flower-and-leaf design in lilac and green
tonings on a pastel-pink background. The
full skirt fell from a tiny waist and the
low neckline was embellished by a
pleated fichu. Jeanette Brooks was in
azure-blue brocaded satin. Mrs. Showers’s
gown was of mignonette-green crepe.
Mrs, Dallmeyer was frocked in blue and
silver lame. Soft dove-grey Chantilly
lace fashioned the gown worn by Mrs.
J. S. Disney. Mrs. Alwyn Spicer’s shot
taffetas were in rose and blue.
Decorations of the Derby Eve Ball
at Earl’s Court, the proceeds from which
will go to the Society for the Preveption
of Cruelty to Children, naturally had to
do with the equine blue-blood, its en-
vironment and accessories. Under white
bookie umbrellas dinner appetisers were
served. Lady Gullett, president of the
ball committee, entertained a large party
at the official table. J Her dove-grey
chiffons were softly draped and featured
jewelled shoulder-straps and belt. The
black gown worn by Mrs. Chester Guest,
chairman of the committee, had the skirt
composed of many layers of tulle. Mrs.
Geoffrey Grimwade’s gown of navy-and-
white candy-striped seersucker had one
shoulder bare; large flat bows of the
material were set on the skirt. Mrs.
Geoffrey Smith’s full-skirted frock was
of heavy white satin. Mrs. Peter
Condon’s scarlet chiffon gown had a
sunray-pleated skirt.
Mrs. Sam Wood was in pale orchid-
pink satin. Mrs, Douglas Stephens
combined black tulle and jet effectively.
Mrs. Everard Baillieu’s strapless gown
was of filmy white tulle. Narrow
shoulder-straps were featured on the
bouffant white lace gown worn by Toni
Blaxland. Mrs. Fred Gilder’s dove-grey
moire gown had a folded bodice and
sleeves allied to a full skirt. Mrs. Maurice
Nathan’s gown of blue satin brocade had
the self-pattern centred with pink sequins.
Mrs. Leo Curtis’s brilliant-red faille gown
bared one shoulder, while the skirt was
slim and draped to the back. Mrs. Joe
Gullett wore leaf-green moire taffetas.
Mrs. John Knox allied ice-blue crepe and
burgundy satin. Mrs. George Mendes
trimmed her primrose-yellow crepe gown
with gold sequins. Mrs. Bruce Rose's
shell-pink organdie frock had a full swirl-
ing skirt.
For Derby Day navy and slate-blue
were the outstanding shades, with citron-
yellow, beige and green next in popu-
larity. When a black frock was worn it
was usually covered with a coat in one of
the pretty pastel tonings. Some large hats
followed the trend for the sideway dip;
one of fine straw had the drooping brim
trimmed ’with walnuts and pearls. But
the head-hugging hat was the most pppu-
lar. The skirts of suits were mostly slim.
The Governor’s lady saw the race in a
slate-blue alpaca dressmaker suit, which
had hip pockets ; her small matching hat
had a white feather trimming, and white
shoes and gloves completed her ensemble.
A flared peplum was a feature of the
jacket of the French-blue suit worn by
Jeanette Brooks ; the skirt was accordion
pleated. Her small brown straw hat had
loops of velvet ribbon with tiny flowers
clustered at the sides. Patricia Edge wore
a navy tailored suit and a matching hat
massed with pink, white and lilac flowers.


ALL-BRITISH
GIVES
Personality
to YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
Rupture
Sufferers—try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live,
rnrr Call or send stamp for
r I\LL FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and H days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place. Svdnev.
ẁ
DUPLICATOR
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost. The
■'National" Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing, Writing, Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely In Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Ouatbuttng Agents —
ITSNEt
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Pty Ltd.
, Vardon & Sons Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. (Ausl.)
Cigarette Lighter Service
We stock spare parts for every well-
known make of Cigarette Lighter.
Send your defective lighter to us.
Repairs returned post free to any
address in the Commonwealth.
ROLLS RAZOR
CO. OF AUST. FTY., LTD.,
8a Castlereagh St., Sydney. BW 2038
ẃ
“I think r dlike
a White Horse
better than anything”
ẅ
WHITE HORSE WHISKY
A pleasure to remember
a joy to find again.
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer*
lasting. That's why a Globite
costs less in the long run.
Mad e by
FORD SHERINGTON LID.
XMAS SPECIAL
ORDER THIS KIN AX
• Fast 4.5 lens By Mail
• Four-speed shutter
• Front lens foe.
• 8 prints on 620 film
£lO/17/6
SEND MONEY ORDER. IMMEDIATE DESPATCH
w
SUNDRY SHOWS
Contemporary Spots.
In changing their habitat to
the Victorian Artists’ Society’s
Gallery, the Melbourne Con-
temporary Artists haven’t
changed their spots. They are
the most derivative of artists.
Almost everybody is derivative
of somebody else, and some are
derivative of somebody who is
derivative of somebody who
may or may not have been de-
rivative of Nature. Cezanne,
for instance, was derivative of
Nature, though most moderns
think he wasn’t; but because,
without wanting to, he some-
times painted houses looking
crooked, they paint houses
crooked, and as the years go by
the houses grow crookeder and
crookeder until there are some
in this exhibition which are
almost lying down.
Looking around the exhibi-
tion one would never imagine
that the artists had ever lived
in Melbourne, and, especially in
the sculpture of Ola Cohn, one
would imagine that they had
never seen a woman or even a
piece of flesh, so completely un-
fleshlike are their statues. The
artists don’t seem to be trying
to paint their own world, but
somebody else’s world, prefer-
ably the worlds of certain
Frenchmen.
Nature gets a look in
with some of the pictures.
Phyl Waterhouse’s “Approach-
ing Storm” has some of the
qualities of real light, and “Gis-
borne Village” is a sensitive
study of that charming town-
ship. Constance Stokes, in her
“Housewife” and “Lazy
Woman,” is derivative of Do-
bell, but she also has some of
the esthetic quality of that
artist. lain Mackinnon has
helped himself to Cezanne’s
palette and subject-matter in a
still-life, and Clothilde Atyeo
has painted Dunk Island. It is
not much like Dunk. Russell
Drysdale has had a poor shot
at his favorite landscape in No.
16, but the boy in the fore-
ground is just as conventionally
painted and as academic as the
“Flower Piece,” “Landscape”
and “Gypsy” of George Bell.
* * * *
A series of Ascher panels by
Henry Moore and Matisse are
on view at George’s Gallery,
Melbourne. They are large
silkscreen-printed fabrics covered
with stylised symbols for sky
and the sea in the South Seas
and allegedly human subjects.
A Moore panel of a reclining
woman looks rather like one of
those X-ray drawings of the
abos, with every rib and the
viscera and so forth showing,
but in the present commentator’s
opinion it hasn’t the variety of
the abos’ drawing. They are
intended for indoor decoration.
"Les Belles Creoles. "
Everything was well done in
the varied second programme of
the National Ballet at Mel-
bourne Princess. The co.’s in-
dividual talents were elegantly
brought out in the Russian
tradition of “Aurora’s Wed-
ding”—polonaise, farandole and
mazurka, Porcelain Princess
and Mandarin, Innocent Ivan
and his two brothers, the pas
deux of Princess Aurora and
Prince Charming (Margaret
Scott and Rex Reid) were all
nicely pointed, and the ordered
rush of the final ensemble was
cleverly confected.
Shivaram, the young Indian
dancer, brought in another alien
tradition with his “Indra Vi-
jayam.” Indra, seated on his
elephant in the Himalayas, is
implored by the apsaras and
ghandaras to control the forces
of the monsoon. He pictures
the stars, the moon, the rivers,
the wind and the great monsoon
cloud arising, catches the moun-
tains as they fly past, cuts their
wings and deposits them about
the country in their present geo-
graphical positions. He does all
this with minute gestures of his
feet, hands and facial muscles,
and everything is as traditional
as a folksong. It is stiff with
conventions as ancient as the
legend, yet there was nothing
stiff about it; rather an extra-
ordinary relaxation which, no
doubt, comes with a lifetime of
practice.
“Romantic Suite,” with
choreography by Joyce Graeme
and music by John Field, was
repeated in a . vague light and
subdued colors which gave all
the losingness and findingness
of an old print. The evening
closed with a first performance
of “Les Belles Creoles,” music
by Aaron Copeland, choreo-
graphy by Rex Reid and ddcor
and costumes by Ann Church.
It was a wild night in a Creole
bar, New Orleans, in the ’nine-
ties, with matelots, girls-about-
town, market women and easy
ladies combining in a bacchanal
into which intrudes the City
Slicker (Leon Kellaway) and
Delilah (Joyce Graeme). It
would have been better if Deli-
lah hadn’t made herself look
like an animated hat-rack in a
part which called for some
voluptuousness.
Ninon Vallin.
Ninon Vallin, the French
soprano, who on her last visit
nearly succeeded in passing
through Melbourne without
anybody knowing of her exist-
ence, has returned to the Town
Hall, .pnd in spite of a cold at
the first concert confirmed this
critic’s impression that she is one
of the loveliest and most ac-
complished singers Australia
has seen for several decades. Her
voice was as smooth and crystal-
clear when it was forte as when
it was piano, and there seemed
to be a lifetime of experience
behind the singing of the “Iphi-
gdnie en Tauride” of Gluck and
her Handel. Massenet is ob-
viously her favorite, and she
made a handsome present of her
artistry to a panel of three by
that composer. She sang so ex-
quisitely in French that her
Italian, by comparison, sounded
almost stilted. Henri Penn at
the piano was always the ac-
companist, following the singer
and helping her on when
needed.
In Sydney, too, it was apparent
that the cold from which the
singer had suffered at her open-
ing recital, and which had
forced her to extreme care in
the production in the lower
register, had sufficiently cleared
at her second appearance to
allow her to dispense with any
inhibitions in that region. Thus
in Saint-Saens’ setting of Vic-
tor Hugo’s “L’Attente” she was
able to employ at times almost
a mezzo of rich quality. Her
legato singing in a Handel
group was marked by almost
perfect phrasing and breathing,
and she gave almost a startling
exposition of how drama and
song can be blended in Gluck’s
“Iphigenie en Tauride.” Mimi’s
“Farewell” from “Boheme” was
given with a gentle restraint well
in keeping with the Puccini
character —it is in such singing
as this that Madame Vallin
demonstrates the art that lies be-
hind her art. Probably no
singer Sydney has heard in years
can so exactly gauge the correct
value of a song.
Pied Pipers.
It happened on Thursday
afternoon last week when The
Bulletin dropped in, by invi-
tation, to Sydney Minerva to
see what Joan and Betty
Rayner’s “children’s theatre”
was all about. When the re-
viewer crept to his seat the
theatre was a deserted, silent
temple, and he began to wonder
whether it was the wrong time
or wrong day, or whether the
stage was something which
appealed to children as much as
algebra does on a hot sunny
afternoon when the fish are bit-
ing or the surf is running.
Then, with amazing sudden-
ness, the walls of the Minerva
seemed to cave in from the sheer
pressure of humanity outside,
and children cascaded into the
place through every possible
opening. They still kept com-
ing, even when it seemed that
the leanest of six-year-olds
couldn’t find room. And then,
when their pigtails were getting
tangled and the chewing-gum
and chocolates were being
squashed flat in their pockets
by the pressure of their neigh-
bors they still kept coming.
Even the Pied Piper could never
have done anything like it.
After Tom had stuck chew-
ing-gum in Bill’s hair and Bill
had tried to get it out; after
Jack had pulled Mavis’s hair and
been crowned by a surprisingly
muscular fist; after most of the
seats in the theatre had been
tested and reported, on; and
after practically every kid in the
place had said “G’day” to every
other kid. Misses Joan and Betty
Rayner appeared on the stage
and with a few words threw a
spell of silence over the audi-
ence more effectively than could
the threat of a hundred canings.
The Rayner sisters are strol-
ling players who have been
round the world half a dozen
times performing in most of
Europe and America and other
odd spots and diligently collect-
ing material, ideas, legends,
folk-tales and other stories.
They have established the idea
of a children’s theatre in Vic-
toria and Tasmania and are now
on their way to spread their
cause throughout N. S. Wales.
Their costumes are simple and
colorful, and their props could
probably be packed comfort-
ably in a capacious handbag.
With them they fascinated the
youngsters with stories —of the
pedlar who cut the skirt off an
old lady sleeping by the wayside,
of the farm-boy and the high-
wayman, of the lazy boy who
wouldn’t work —and a little
Mexican comedy about Carmen-
cita who disguises herself as a
donkey to escape from her cruel
uncle.
Everything was well and
brightly done, and the youngsters
were quickly transported into
whatever place or age or spirit
the Rayner sisters suggested.
Children are wonderful audi-
ences in that they have no inhi-
bitions and are quick to approve
or disapprove, and show it in
no uncertain fashion. Just as
anything that can develop in
them the invaluable habit of
reading is to be most highly
commended, so is anything that
can get them into flesh-and-
blood theatres —sooner or later
most of them come to Shak-
speare, and most of them forget
him as quickly as possible be-
cause they pever realise or learn
that what they have for the tak-
ing is not a dull boojc of lessons
but the most wonderful plays in
the English language.
* * * *
Sydney’s Musica Viva Society
gave Brisbane the most flawless
recital of chamber music since
the Budapest Quartet visit over
a decade ago. After a perform-
ance of Haydn’s “Lark” Quar-
tet, notable for its tonal beauty,
Hephzibah Menuhin joined
violinist Robert Pikler and ’cel-
list Theo Salzman in the
Beethoven “Archduke” Trio,
Miss Menuhin’s complete lack
of ostentation and her unerring
sense of co-operation were evi-
dence of a classical discipline
often absent in pianists of her
calibre. Joining the quartet, she
concluded the programme with
Cesar Franck’s Quintet in F
minor, a performance of unfor-
gettable intensity.
The Tickled Trout.
Malvolio’s lines when he is
commenting on the letter which
he thinks is from Olivia contain
a pun so atrocious and so im-
proper that it should keep an
audience of schoolboys happy
for months. And there is
something missing in a perform-
ance when that pun passes with-
out a murmur.
What was missing in Sydney
Metropolitan’s “Twelfth Night,”
running a brief course
{Continued on page 35.)


Jonathan
By BRAIN JAME
<1 II EELS! ” said the old drover.
Y \ “Heels’ve been provided by the
I Lord in His wisdom for man’s
use and benefit, and as such are
not to be despised.”
“Eels! Ugh!” said Frank in a tone
expressing his feeling of revulsion at the
slimy, contorting creatures that would
insist on hooking themselves on the bait
provided for perch—writhing and twist-
ing and tying themselves into 117 kinds
of knots and doing all sorts of damage
to the line in the process. Eels!
The old drover ignored the disgust.
“You skin ’em and cut ’em into suitable
lengths. Then you parboil ’em. Then
in plentiful fat you fry ’em in the pan.”
“I’d as soon eat a snake.”
“I ’ave heaten snakes; They are good,
too, as good as heels.”
THE old drover looked anything but
a drover, nor spoke the language so
generally attributed to those who deal
with animals in the raw. Old, rough,
tough and a bit craggy-looking he was,
but there was somehow an air of
indefinable softness about him. His
voice was soft, smooth, low, a trifle
monotonous —not unpleasantly so —no
more so than the gentle murmur of a
stream which blends itself at last with
one’s thoughts and goes to sleep with
them. There was a goodness, a piety,
underlying his drawling speech. Never
a word out of place; a natural euphem-
ism that rejected the most mildly-uncouth
term. Only the occasional misplacing of
an “h” could be detected as a blemish,
and even this seemed sanctified as a
privilege.
He said his name was Brewer —Jona-
than Brewer. He stroked the Jonathan
with his tongue —lovingly, as though the
“Brewer” was intrusive and impertinent,
and certainly out of keeping. He was
returning home after delivering a small
mob of cattle down the coast. He wasn’t
droving all the time —not now —and he
had a small place out Scone way. A
pretty good place, if small. The Lord
had been good to him. Also, though he
didn’t quite say it, he had been good to
the Lord. They understood each other,
it seemed.
His companion and assistant was an
awkward, shy, silent youth of eighteen
or so. Sister’s son —youngest sister’s son.
She was dead, of course. That explained
the presence of the nephew with him,
and the inference was that he was bring-
ing up the nephew. And bringing him
up properly. Nephew’s name was Samuel
—something else, no doubt, but it wasn’t
mentioned. Just Samuel. A good name
—parents can’t be too carefufiin bestow-
ing names. Names do matter and do
count, and are always something to live
up to. Samuel was good, too —in his
youth and his promise. Good in a nega-
tive way, with a shadow or suspicion
now and then of rebellion against being
sheltered and protected. But then, again,
one might be imagining that.
The half-dozen horses made Jonathan
look a drover more than anything in his
own appearance. Quiet, biddable horses
they were. They knew their work and
every move expected of them. And the
gear, too —worn smooth, deep-bitten with
buckles and fixings—bridles, saddles and
packsaddles, and so forth —all as long
used to the work as the horses. Longer,
too, no doubt.
A third member of the party had
stayed for the time being on the coast.
Jonathan’s righteous, if hopeless, gesture
-—slight lifting of shoulders, thrust for-
ward of chin and tightening of lips—
indicated plainly enough that the third
man, good man in his way, had his
lapses. Yes, indeed, he had his lapses.
Two blue-heelers, silent and unlovely,
completed the outfit. They seemed to
be made entirely of ribs and malevolence.
One had a blind white eye, and this
made him more sinister than the other.
They didn’t eat —they just caught scraps
of whatever offered in their lean jaws
and shot these, with a horrible jerk, into
their stomachs. In their ill-natured way
they adored Jonathan and tolerated
Samuel,
lONATHAN was camped for the
night on a small flat by the Allyn.
No tent, only a fly for groundsheet and
top-covering against dew. It would be a
fine night, Jonathan said, and he should
have known. Gear stacked in untidy
orderliness at the foot of a huge sheoak
tree. Horses feeding on the flat —certain
ones in hobbles. Fire banked up against
a convenient log. A perfect fire to meet
the needs of the occasion. Making the
exactly right sort of fire is an art in itself.
A very simple art, but lots of people
never master it.
The fire had been burning some time,
and was ready now for a damper. Jona-
than made a damper while Samuel
attended to other camp duties. Jonathan
made a good damper—in an easy, casual,
nonchalant way. But he took it seriously,
too. From a very dirty sugarbag he
extracted a greasy white flourbag. At
least it had been white once. From the
flourbag he took a hunk of corned beef.
Not very inviting at all. Damper, corned
beef and a billy of black tea made a
hard but satisfying meal, Jonathan
bowed his head and invoked a blessing
upon it.
Samuel, half in shame, bowed his head,
too. But he didn’t seem to worry about
the blessing. The blue-heelers dispensed
entirely with the practice and formality
of blessing, and shared moderately in the
meal. It wasn’t a big share, nor were
they particularly grateful.
FRANK, Bill and Jack were up from
Sydney. A break from their city
lives to camp on the Allyn for the plea-
sure of the partially primitive. There
were plenty of fish in the
river, and turkeys and
pigeons in the scrub. The
bane upon their fishing had
been the eels. Like Jonathan,
they spoke to the Lord about
the eels—but not in the same
way as Jonathan.
Frank, Bill and Jack had
watched, earlier in the after-
noon, the creaking, jingling
outfit as it went up the grassy
track of the Allyn. Usual
greetings as the cavalcade.
went by. Frank’s quick eye
took in old Jonathan. And Jonathan’s
beard.
“Did you twig that beard?”
“Yes,” said Bill. “He’s got a beard all
right.”
“It’s not that I mean. It’s like silk.”
“Silk!”
“Yes, silk. It’s never been cut.
Biblical —that’s what it is. And I bet the
old coot has a name like Ephraim or
Ebenezer or Saul, These names go with
silky beards.”
Frank spoke with some contempt. He
didn’t like silky beards and Biblical
names, and any of the externals of piety.
Frank, hale, hearty, big in every way— :
body and mind —was a militant atheist
and a hater of all cant and humbug.
Also, in no small way, he was a scientist
—had a widely-known name, in fact, for
his researches in algae and sponges. He
was interested in humanity, too, and
brought to the study of it his training in
science. But he knew a lot more aboqt
sponges than he did about man. Scientists
are often like that.
“They’ll be camping upstream a bit,”
said Frank. “We’ll stroll up afterwards
and look them over,”
AFTER a decpnt interval the three"paid
Jonathan the visit, and heard of
Jonathan’s preference for “heels.”
“Well, if you like them,” said Frank,
“we’ll soon get you some. River here is
just lousy with them.”
The word “lousy” in this far-fetched
metaphor was offensive to Jonathan, but
he didn’t show it and forgave it straight
away.
“When are you leaving?” asked Frank.
“Tomorrow morning—the Lord being
agreeable.”
The Lord’s entry into the business was
offensive to Frank. But he was a gentle-
man as well as a scientist, and forgave
the untutored crudity.
“Where to?”
“Out Scone way—over the Tops there.”
He indicated the darkening, purpling
mass of the Barrington at the head of
Allyn valley. “The heverlasting ’ills.”
Frank let that pass, too. In truth there
was something touchingly different about
this Jonathan. And a new flavor entirely
from that of the “pious” men Frank had
known. The place, the time and, as much
as anything, the droving accentuated this.
Undoubtedly this old, gnarled, active
silky-bearded relic was genuine. And
therefore interesting.
Also, the mention of the Tops was of
interest. For some weeks Frank had
planned a visit to the Tops. Transport
of gear was a difficulty. It was a long,
steep climb from the valley floor. Horses
were indicated, but no horses had been
available.
OLD JONATHAN seemed to read the
thought.
“I ’ave ’orses ’ere.”
“We’d be willing, of course”
Jonathan raised his head in way of
gentle rebuke —“What know I or care?
Did not the Lord say unto Jacob”
“Yes, yes. Thank you very much. It’s
our gear really—we don’t mind walking
ourselves. We’re used to it and like it.
It’s the gear.”
“The pack-’orse,” said Jonathan as if
he were reading a lesson. “The pack-
’orse is meetly a beast of burden and
made to bear.”
“Well, that’s jolly decent of you. What
time?”
“In the fullness thereof.”
Frank wanted something
more precise. At least he
looked doubtful over the
“fullness.” Jonathan under-
stood. “Ten o’clock,” he said.
“That’ll suit us, right down
to the ground.”
The three returned to
camp. “It’s all rot and fiddle-
sticks, of course,” said Frank.
“But he’s a decent old stick,
too, in spite of his piety.
We’ll catch him a few eels
if he’s so fond of them.”
Never had eels been so ready to be
caught. It really seemed as if the Lord
had inspired them to grab anything that
dangled down through the clear water of
the Allyn. Soon a sugarbag was nearly
half-full of the squirming horrors.
Frank took them up to Jonathan and
was suitably and adequately blessed for
the gift.
J N the morning light Barrington looked
1 bluer, bigger and yet more distant than
ever. It was a grand mass of
mountain, nearly flat-topped, with
Carey’s Peak humped and rising up
as if it had been added as an
afterthought when the original job
was completed. Five thousand feet
and more it rose above the level of
the sea, and was among the highest land
in all Australia. A knot or ganglion it
was in a veritable tangle of mountains
that only reduced to some sort of sim-
plicity when one saw them on a map. In
reality, their general scheme was not so
clear. From the-Tops a whole host of
clear, swift streams radiated in all direc-
tions. From the Allyn side the ascent was
certainly arduous and narrow.
At ten or thereabouts they set out—a
long string of horses that knew it all.
Samuel, leaning forward easily and lazily
in the saddle, took the lead. Several
spare working-horses followed stolidly.
Then the two pack-horses, with the extra
burden upon them. Then Jonathan him-
self, with Frank and his party bringing
up the rear. The blue-heelers walked at
the heels of Jonathan’s horse. They were
serious dogs—no romping, frolicking for
them. They walked. They slunk.
The track was narrow, and for miles
it went through the dense dark brush, a
tunnel or burrow it seemed, with the
foliage at most times meeting above eight
or nine feet from the ground. In eternal
dampness and rich decay underfoot the
track was often strewn with mossy
Moulders ; moss on every tree-trunk and
limb. No sunlight penetrated at all—only
an eerie greenish gloom. A place where
dwarfs and gnomes might well live. Away
from the track there was no entry into the
close ranks of tree-trunks and tangling
vines. Now and then, however, some
giant of a eucalypt or heavily buttressed
fig made a partial clearing for itself by
beating down the opposition of smaller
trees. Then on again went the green
tunnel.
There was oppressive silence amid all
this vigorous growth, for the battle of the
trees is as noiseless as it is deadly. What
sounds there were were incidental,
extraneous, and only added to the very
absence of sounds —the soft thud of
hoofs on the damp mould, the occasional
clatter of iron shoe on the boulders; the
rush of the Allyn at the fords where the
tortuous track crossed and recrossed the
stream ; the harsh stridency of a solitary
black cockatoo, or the nearly as harsh
cries of gang-gangs ; the silvery prattle
of green leeks. It was no place for human
voice, and yet one talked for the relief of
hearing it.
Miles and miles of this till the track at
last left the Allyn and rose steeply by
spur and shoulder above the tangled
brush. Through breaks in the timber
could be seen the lovely valley of the
Allyn and the bold outlines of the Mount
Royal Range. Up and up, with the air
thinning and cooling. Samuel leaning
more forward now as the track grew
steeper. Pack-horses grunting at times
and digging in their toes. Jonathan in
his almost unearthly voice singing some
song—a hymn or one of his own composi-
tion, but always sacred ; no distinct words,
but full of meaning, too.
Sometimes, when the track widened
sufficiently, Frank walked beside
Jonathan’s horse. And they talked,
Frank’s hearty voice in strange contrast to
Jonathan’s low insistence of gentle words.
Both were on their favorite topics now—
Jonathan’s assurance of an all-seeing, all-
pervading Deity, planning, guiding,
watching every move; Frank’s complete
denial of any such Deity. Bill and Jack
bringing up the rear, desultory in talk,
except to invite each other to look at
some point of interest, or to comment on
the nature of the track. The blue-heelers
took in the miles resentfully . . .
MIDDAY was past now, but the track
still went upward. view
widened, and the whole world became
filled with the lesser mountains, stretch-
ing away as far as eye could see. No
end to them —rising up in sharp reliefs of
light and shadow; wooded heavily on
folded slopes, and in hollows and gullies ;
no sign that man had ever disturbed
them, or lived among them, or travelled
over them ...
“Far now?” asked Frank,


“A goodly distance still,” answered
Jonathan. He added with quiet assurance
“There will be a storm.”
There had been no hint of a storm
yet to those not weatherwise. But when
the top, or what seemed the top, could
be viewed at all, clouds were growing out
of it Above one the upper air suddenly
became gloom and menace; but, below,
the Valley was all sunshine and heat and
the soft haze of summer. And then, just
as the top was reached, thick grey cloud
spilled and rolled over it, and horse and
rider and tramper were swallowed up in
the darkness.
There was no more world —only the
meaningless chaos of those rolling and
swirling clouds, and only dimly seen or
imagined thfe unreal, unnatural, shapes of
the two pack-horses, heads low, the very
dejected ghosts of horses, but still plod-
ding forward, following Samuel no doubt.
A vicious stab of blue light came out
of this blackness and blinded the eyes;
and the ears were immediately deafened
by the blast of the explosion: it wasn’t
thunder, but some gigantic bomb hurled
by the gods. And with it the rain: not
water that drops gently from the sky
upon the welcoming thirsty earth, but the
sharp thrust and stab of lance and spear
of countless charging cavalry. There were
cruelty and hate in every thrust, a deter-
mination to wipe out, to destroy utterly,
that little band that had rashly entered
info the secrets of the storm gods,
W ITHOUT intermission now the light-
nings flashed all round, momentarily
revealing some part of the scene and
thrusting it back again into a violet dark-
ness. And the thunders exploded con-
tinuously, The rain, on an icy wind,
slanted and drove on with the same fury
as that of the lightning and thunder. The
solid ground shivered and trembled and
shook under this fierce onslaught, and
every heart that beat did so in the sure
dread that the last moment had come.
“Here!” And Bill pointed to a hollow
tree that had suddenly jumped out of a
lightning flame. Every detail of it was
shown-in the instant before it disappeared
info the dark —not so much a tree as the
half-shell or shard of what had once been
a tree, one of the prevailing white-gums,
burnt out on the leaning side, a mere
husk and relic of forgotten fires and
storms. It was broad, and beneath its
cant to eastward was shelter.
Jack remembered the old caution:
Keep away from trees in a storm. But
then this was no tree any longer. And
he and Bill dived under the driving rain
and wind and huddled together beneath
this half-trunk. It was refuge of a sort,
and more than that was the warm comfort
of bodies squeezed together against over-
whelming danger. The angry eyes of the
storm might not seek them cut here. Of
what had become of the others they knew
nothing.
They breathed more freely, however,
and waited. They waited endlessly,
though such mountain storms do not last
long as a rule. And even now something
of its fury was abating: the lashing rain
was not so heavy and the explosion of
thunder was giving way to rumbles and
grumbles and growlings. Trees were
actually taking shapes, vague and
ghostly, out of the clouds —coming into
the consciousness of vision like the first
uncertain twinkling of stars in the
twilight.
Then, at greater distance, a huddle of
horses, the very pictures of depressed
patience, with dejected rumps still pre-
sented to the storm, drooped heads to
the east. And out of this lost world ap-
peared Samuel, on foot, and making for
the horses. Samuel was cheerful, as
cheerful, anyhow, as his negative soul
could ever be. It was the defiant cheer
of danger past, of sudden and awful
dissolution escaped.
“Hullo!” he called, not so much for
assurance that the others had escaped,
too, as to express joy at his own survival.
Bill and Jack crawled out of their
hollow tree into the diminishing rain.
“j-JULLO!” called Samuel. “You all
I 1 right?”
“We’re 0.k.,” and Bill sounded mighty
cheerful, too.
“Beaut storm, that was,” enthused
Samuel. Then, as a tribute to his own
approaching manhood, “But I’ve seen a
bloody sight worse in my time.”
The “bloody sight worse” was, of
course, interpolated as guarantee of
Samuel’s courage and experience; and
his recent escape justified the slinging of
profanity in the very face, as it were,
of his pious uncle.
The horses lifted their heads in mild
surprise as the three approached. Per-
haps they were wondering, too, how any
living thing could survive such a storm.
“That’s where I got,” said Samuel,
and he pointed to a huge log, one end
of which was broken away to form a
half-cylinder. “Crawled in there and was
pretty snug The horses, I say.
Where’s old —old Uncle and the other
chap?”
“We lost track of them when it started.
Couldn’t”
And then out of the flying fog came
the monotonous sing-song of Jonathan’s
voice—“ God moves in a mysterious
way”
“That’s them,” said Samuel rather un-
necessarily.
THE fog and mist thinned out rapidly,
and there was Jonathan sure enough,
seated on a soaked horse. Jonathan was
clad in an ancient oilskin that had
several frayed capes on it. Clear rain-
drops were coursing down his silky
beard. But his blue
eyes were wondrously
bright, and apparently
the storm had done him
a power of good.
Frank, as soaked as
Jonathan’s horse, but
minding it not at all,
was standing alongside
the horse, one hand
resting on its mane. It
would seem that they
had stood thus through-
out. It would seem,
too, that each man had
been using the storm as an illustration.
Frank was saying “You ask me to
view a natural phenomenon as positive
evidence of a Divine Will working in a
way beyond man’s comprehension. It
is scientifically demonstrable”
Jonathan lifted from beneath the
mysteries of his frayed capes an ad-
monishing hand, “ ’Ere comes Samuel,”
he warned, “and I do not wish to cloud
’is mind with doubts. Let us leave our
discussion till he sleeps. Samuel is a
goodly lad and is my chief care.”
As suddenly as it had come the storm
departed, and the bright bow of peace
shone in all its splendor over the Mount
Royal Range. Again the sun was shin-
ing on the stunted trees of the Barring-
ton plateau and on a hundred gushing
rivulets. With the sun came the blue-
heelers —they had sheltered somewhere.
They accepted the storm and the return-
ing sunshine as they did everything else.
The party moved on to cover the few
remaining miles to the stockmen’s hut.
That clear shining after rain was upon
everything and in the air itself. A blessed
time if ever there was one.
Frank said to Bill and Jack, all three
now tramping abreast, “That old geyser
is sincere. I’ll give him that. And he’s
got it all sewn up, frontwards and back-
wards, from Genesis to Revelations. He
can quote the lot of it.”
Frank had evidently enjoyed the ex-
perience, for he went on, “Most of these
blasted thumpers can be cornered, but
not him. He’s really goodhearted. And
just simple, foolish faith, as immovable
as this granite.”
I N the stockmen’s shelter was rough-
-1 and-ready comfort, and in the broad
fireplace a roaring fire soon blazed to
steam and dry-out the wet clothing. The
warmth was needed, too, for the air had a
biting, frosty nip after the storm. Jona-
than and Samuel, perhaps in accordance
with the wishes of the Lord, ate freely
and plentifully of eels. The others had
salmon from a tin. The dogs had eel,
supplemented by a sly licking-out of the
pan when no one was looking.
There was no further. excursion on
Frank’s part into the vast fields of
theology. It is doubtful whether Samuel
would have been much corrupted by dis-
turbing doubts, or whether he would have
shown the slightest interest in or under-
standing of such discussion. But Frank
respected old Jonathan’s wishes in the
matter. Indeed, Jonathan had much to
tell of early droving, an endless fund of
incident and anecdote of good men who
were really good and bad men who were
thoroughly bad. Either served equally
well to point a moral.
There were brand-fakers, too, and
duffers; troopers and blacktrackers;
and even the last of the bushrangers, the
notorious Jimmy and Joe Governor. The
old fellow had the gift of story-telling,
and the time and place were right for it.
Flames licked around the huge piled-on
logs and wavered and ’retreated at last
to make spasmodic sallies now and then ;
a heap of white-hot blinking coals was
ever growing underneath.
It turned out, too, that Jonathan was
a poet —a minstrel, rather. He had many
unwritten compositions to his credit, and
some of these he sang with great intensity
of feeling, though the tunes had much of
unrelieved monotony to them. In theme
and treatment they were much like
hymns. One song in particular was most
appealingly pathetic—Jonathan told in
it the love-story of his life. “Rose of
Sharon” was its title. In its humble way
it truly belonged to s the great songs of
undying love. Frank’s eyes glistened with
the unbidden tears that would not be
denied. But Jonathan’s eyes were bright
and dry and as soft as the silk of his
absurd beard.
“She died,” said Jonathan simply, “at
twenty. We never married —it was not
to be. The Lord ’ad given—and the Lord
’ad taken away.”
Frank audibly sniffed back something
into his throat. There were saints, and
all his science had never discovered them
before. Samuel drowsily upended himself,
and went out to see to something or other
about the horses. Frank went with him,
perhaps to hide and choke back the
emotional appeal of old Jonathan.
After that they all dossed on the floor
—comfortable enough but for the fleas
that so often seem to
haunt stockmen’s
shelters. No doubt the
blue-heelers added their
quota,
AT the first peep of
dawn Jonathan
and Samuel were stir-
ring and making ready
for the last lap of the
journey home. Frank
made breakfast for all,
bacon, eggs and toast,
a pleasing change for
Jonathan and Samuel from the wonted
damper arid corned beef.
Frank, in aside, said to Bill and Jack,
“Have to give him something for the
help he gave us yesterday. What do you
think?”
“I don’t just know, really,” said Bill.
And Jack said, “I don’t think he’d take
anything. Perhaps it would offend him
to offer it.”
“Well, he’s been mighty decent, and
I would like to give him something. But
it is a bit difficult,” said Frank,
“Ask him —put it as a kind of delicate
hint—something of that sort. But I was
thinking—perhaps if you handed him a
ten-bob note, which would be a fair thing,
and say it was a donation to —to” —
Bill groped for a handy phrase—“to a
worthy cause.”
“Leave it to me, then,” said Frank.
“I’ll watch for a chance and just make
him take it. In fact, I wouldn’t mind
springing a quid.”
THE horses were ready in the strong
stockyard. The early sun was as yet
only slanting through the white-gums and
sallies, and every leaf and every tussock
was heavy with pearls. A grand mountain
morning, new washed in yesterday's
storm ; blue skies; and the rare tingling
air had a spice of frost in it. Handshakes
at the sliprails—with old friends of less
than two days’ standing. But old friends
for all that, for they had shared a part,
however brief, of one’s life. And no
friends can do much more than that.
Frank had not yet found his chance
of springing that quid. Apparently he
was finding the matter of approach a
difficult one. He nodded at Bill and Jack,
and then inclined his head slightly to-
wards the track. That meant he was
going along a bit with the drover.
Samuel took the lead, the spares and
the pack-horses followed in line.
Jonathan, with Frank at his side, made up
the rear. Blue-heelers, morosely non-
committal, in their usual place. Clatter
of hoofs on the stony track, creak of
leather —not so loud since the wetting—
and horses and men and dogs disappeared
among the trees.
Bill and Jack made a fresh billy of tea,
in the time-honored custom of taking tea
with the discussion of departed visitors.
The morning, clear as a mountain stream in
granite country, was,however, warming up,
but not yet with the sting that highland
suns can give at times. Flies were already
stretching the numbness from leg and
wing and beginning to pest and torment.
FRANK returned. He looked as glum
and black as a storm-cloud. He
summed up feeling and narrative in one
brief exclamation: “The old bastard!’"
“Wouldn’t he take it then? Knocked
you back, did he?”
“He took it all right—don’t worry about
that. Yes, he took it all right.”
“Why—what?”
“It was like this. I said good-bye. I
shook hands. I thanked him. And be-
cause I couldn’t think of anything better,
I said, ‘Jonathan, you’ve been mighty
good bringing up all our gear. We owe
you something. What is it?’
“And he said ‘Render unto Caesar the
things that are Caesar’s.'
“And I said ‘That’s all very well,
Jonathan, but I want to render some-
thing unto you.’
“And the old cow looked quite sad at
that, and said ‘lt is none of my seeking—•
but if you insist.’
“At that I held out the quid, but he
didn’t seem to see it. T often,’ said he,
‘take parties to these Tops—students from
the university, professors and lecturers,
geologists and geographists. Sometimes
from the Scone side, and sometimes from
the Hallyn. It’s all one to me and my
modest charge is the same. So much per
’ead, for is not the laborer worthy of ’is
’ire?’ ”
Frank interpolated here a lengthy
opinion on humbugs and such. He re-
turned at length to Jonathan.
“ ‘How much?’ I asked.
“ ‘l’ll be perfectly fair with you, and
charge only the regular fee.’
“‘And that is?’ He looked at me
sorrowfully, but I’ll swear he was calcu-
lating how much he could do me for.
“ ‘That is,’ says he, direct at last, ‘that
is one pound per ’ead.’ ”
“Did you—do you mean to say?”
Bill flared.
“Of course. I wasn’t going to haggle with
him. I passed him three bloody quid.”
“Well, what do you think of that!
Three quid for bringing up our bit of
gear!”
BUT Frank was beyond further dis-
cussion or reasoning—except the
comprehensive summing-up contained in
“The old —— !”
“You should have charged him for the
eels,” said Jack brightly.
“Eels!” snorted Frank. “I can only
hope that he chokes and dies miserably
on one of the bones. Failing that, that he
keeps them long enough to get fish-
poisoning.”
Perhaps that is why Frank was so silent
on the return journey later from the Tops
to the valley. Science again triumphing
over the saints, old and new; over the
solidity of faiths ; over the subtleties of
theology. It must have been that, for
from time to time he ejaculated “The
old !”
Or, again, it might have been the three
quid.
Or both.
The Waitress.
You, with the half hat-hidden face, want-
ing steak,
Squinting your eyes in irritation ;
Your man, a rosy-lidded rake
Contesting the occasion —
You want to feed ?
Stay in your greed.
This corner is a web for the empty-eyed
crone.
In hunger eluding,
Moth-ball exuding.
From the house of never-alone.
Uniquely free of the thrusting arms, the
taunting aid,
Three times already she has paid
And still at every second thought will pay
On this great, consummating holiday.
She gripped the undefended door,
Coursed every span of floor,
Unseen black patterer progressing,
Her age’s final urge possessing:
Joy’s last retreat —
Unclouded will to eat.
She should be served with care.
Unharried the condemned may choose
their fare.
And why
Should you two growlers sate
And she, tongue-sucking, wait
That is so soon to die ?
N.Z.
J. CAMERON SMITH.
Color.
What need to paint a world for this keen
man ?
Who, blind now, knows its oceans in such
words
As “soundings,” “leagues and leagues”
and “seagulls”;
And who says: “We’ll come ashore this
summer
For ay ear, we yawed through snapping ice-;
And I grew blind.” Who sdw the ice and
said :
“The mongrel pack! Like yapping dogs,
the floes
Rose up around us, froze and locked us in,
A year. A year ! And it was months too
late
To save my sight. Our fated vessel,
crushed.
Plighted her troth in the sea's arms under.
But, then, there came a ship. They cried,
‘A sail!’
They cried it on the day my total
blindness
Set like the sun in tropic latitudes.
And, oh, their words were pricking stars
of light.
In black and white they talked, eschewed
the green
Of seas I’d known. Perhaps they too were
blind !
I had my answer, when, at length, I smelt
Hot summer sunlight blowing out of
Sydney,
And sensed my world, blue, gold, in
calm reflection.”
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.


La Plume de malante
DAVID CAMPBELL
SUNDAY was the worst day, when
they were free, for three hours after
church, to roam the roads and the
orchards, to shy stones at magpies
and buy a jerseyful of oranges for six-
pence, before the great bell on the hill
called them to lunch. Sunday lunch was
special and always the same: elastic beef,
light green apple-pie splashed out of
shallow trays and custard chirping in
washstand jugs. But it did not make up
for those three hours.
They were formed up after breakfast
in a long crocodile outside the brick and
grills of the dormitory block. The house-
master, smelling of stale smoke, walked
down the lines of splayed, scrubbed
hands; a prefect followed disdainfully
with threepences for the plate. And the
crocodile wound out through the school
gates, was reflected in the foaming mirrors
of the Royal, straggled below the em-
bankment where pigface shone on the
railside like neon lights. They were like
a train themselves. And it would have
been quite fun, keeping a stone moving
between the double ranks on the shot
asphalt, if he had not thought of after
church.
In the sandstone church, the girls from
the girls’ school on the bride’s side in
the colored dimness of saints’ blood, he
hoped one would look and would not
look, particularly the housemaster’s
daughter; singing hymns while Wiggins
and Gold scuffled with sly side-
smiles. They all put their threepences
back in the carved plate; and Michael
George sat still and sticky, wondering
whom he would walk home with.
THE light was harsh outside, under the
pines. And Michael would stand with
his hands in his pockets, looking serious
and interested on the fringe of the largest
group of boys, pretending to be part of
it. But the group always broke up, the
boys scattering in threes and fours down
the dusty side-road to the orchards; and
when they had all gone, Michael would
saunter over to where La Plume waited
for him under a sickly street-tree.
“Hallo, La Plume. You still here?”
“Hallo, Michael.”
“Thinking of making down into the
gully?”
“If you like.”
And the two boys, La Plume small, fair,
delicate, and Michael sturdy, with curly-
brown hair and clouded brows, would
dawdle down the road, Michael lagging,
and turn off short before the orchards,
into the thin bush.
Michael liked La Plume in a guarded
way; but he did not like to be seen with
him.
First of all La Plume spoke French:
not always, but they said he could if he
wanted to. Sometimes after school when
everyone was running to change into
cricket things a crowd of boys would
gather round La Plume.
"Parlez-vous frangais ?” they would
say. "La Plume de ma tante est grande.”
And La Plume would stand there, say-
ing nothing.
“The trouble with La Plume is he
thinks in French. He can’t understand us.
You’ve got to make signs
to La Plume. Tweak,
tweak” —pulling three times
at the finger of fair hair
pointing out from La
Plume’s head—“ What does
that mean, La Plume?”
Until one evening while
they were milling round
him on the cooling asphalt
field, La Plume, very pale,
took a pocketknife from
his pocket and stuck the
shorter blade into the
wrist of the nearest boy.
They stood there a moment,
bewildered, watching the
falling of small black pears of blood.
And La Plume closed his pocketknife
and walked off under the square, brittle
lights of the library.
La Plume played sissy games, thd
sort of games Michael played with his
girl cousins during the holidays.
WHEN they turned off right before the
orchards, they came into a steep land
of haggard trees and bottlebrush.
Bracken faded down to the cliff and the
black pools, and here La Plume took the
lead, creeping on his belly without sound
oVer the moss of fallen boughs, and
shushing suddenly, a wild bright light in
his eyes, when Michael slipped on the
stone. La Plume took him down the
Gothic sides of a precipice in the green
twilight, and at times he really expected
to find the crooked witch and rescue the
housemaster’s daughter from a still cave.
But mostly he played with only half
his mind, half fearing to go too far into
the strange world that La Plume created.
And sometimes when La Plume turned
and hissed, bringing a silence down over
the trees and the pools, Michael thought
of the knife and those pear-shaped drops
of blood.
They would walk back to school to-
gether, and until they got to the railway
cutting it was almost as if La Plume were
the leader, striding erect at his side and
not answering his questions.
Instead La Plume would tell him about
his home ; and about his mother who was
French and had long fair hair which she
brushed at night in front of a mirror, the
hair divided and falling down over her
shoulders into the shadow of her lap.
And one night while she sat there, brush-
ing her hair, a mouse crept up and licked
her foot.
Michael did not altogether believe the
story about the mouse. And he was not
pleased when, walking home, La Plume
said with the sudden clarity of vision
that lonely children have at times, “Do
you know why I like you, Michael? Be-
cause in some ways
you’re like I am.
We’re on the side-
-line, somehow,
watching life.
Almost spies in a
way.”
Michael did not
want to b a on the
sideline. And
diuciuiv. r\. 11 kx
when they passed over the railway-
bridge he said “There’s something
I want to buy up the road.” And
he left La Plume and went around the
back of the tennis-courts, and watched
Wiggins and Gold throwing pebbles over
the fence at the kids in the hospital.
DAN WIGGINS was the best bowler
in the junior house cricket team, and
it was well-known that he used to meet
Alice, the housemaster’s daughter, around
at the back in the shrubbery after school.
It was well-known too that he and
Chingie Gold used to smoke in the bush
on Sundays; and some said they had a
private still and made their own beer.
Whenever they walked past any of the
older boys, the older boys would say
“Gooday, Dan. Gooday, Chingie.” And
Dan and Chingie would say “Gooday.”
La Plume and Michael
came upon them down the
gully one summer Sunday.
La Plume was leading,
skulking over the bare rock
in the creek-bed, and stop-
ping suddenly, with feet
planted, to cut and stripe
the air with a sword-stick,
when a voice said clearly:
“Look at those two
jokers, Dan. They’ve gone
mad, or something. Who
are they?”
Wiggins and Gold were
sitting around a low pocket
in the rock, fishing for
yabbies. They had the billy on, the fire
sending a faint column of thin smoke
straight up between the rock walls. Their
bare feet showed toes above the black
water, and gently, gently. Gold hauled in
his fishing-string between red, straddled
knees. A green-jewelled crayfish came to
the lip.
"La Plume de ma tante est grande,”
said Wiggins,
“Talking in signs,” said Gold.
Michael looked for cover, but it was
too late.
“Getting any?” he said, quietly letting
his sword slip to the rock behind him.
"Parlez-vous frangais, aussi ?” Gold
asked.
Michael stood burning in the shade.
“Oh, he’s mad,” he said.
“He plays games like girls.
He’s pretending he’s rescuing
Alice Kershaw from a witch
or something.”
“Or me, perhaps?” said
Dan Wiggins. “So I have a
rival. La Plume will teach
her to speak French.”
He sat there, mocking,
handsome and confident, at the edge of
the pool, twiddling his toes.
“With his hands,” Gold said.
“Come on: let’s go,” La Plume said.
“You can, if you want to.”
And no one heard him as he went off
silently through the bush.
MICHAEL stood on the warm rock,
watching, until Gold said:
“Well. What are you waiting for?”
He had a round sallow face with slant-
ing eyes, and his eyes closed a little more
when he spoke.
I could probably beat him in a fight,
Michael thought. Though it wouldn’t do.
Saying, “I know where I can get some
egg s.” .
The two boys looked up at him from
the pool in the rock.
“What do you
think, Dan?”
“All right.”
“All right.”
And Gold went
on fishing.
Michael broke
his way through
the bush in panic
and delight, his
heart beating out: If they should tell;
I must get eggs, eggs at any cost; will
they smoke after?
At the back of the galvanised-iron wall,
at the edge of the bush and the orchards,
where old Mrs. Stanhope lived and kept
her poultry, he looked through a jagged
hole and saw Mrs. Stanhope. There was
a long netting-yard between the orange-
trees with a half-moon .tank at one end
and packing-cases under the tank for the
fowls to lay in. White fowls in red berets
walked like clockwork about the yard or
pouted, flapping, in pockets of dust. They
seemed to be on the alert, expecting him,
for the birds paused at every stride, at
every peck, heads cocked, listening. And
old Mrs. Stanhope was expecting him
too, for she paused at her brooming,
muttering under a man’s hat. Her hair
bunched out from under her hat like steel
wool.
Michael waited and Mrs. Stanhope
waited and the fowls waited. The sun
stood still in the bleached sky above the
liquid leaves of the gum-trees. Michael
could not wait any longer.
He crept down the wall until he came
to a leaning tree over the fowl-coop.
From there he threw a stone to clatter
on the far side of the red iron roof. He
heard Mrs. Stanhope shout, and he was
over the wall, and the air was full of
birds and he was clambering back over
the wall, trying not to break the eggs,
while Mrs, Stanhope came dodging be-
tween the orange-trees. The broom hit
him as he went over. But he fell clear,
holding the eggs high. Only one broke
down his sleeves,
THE eggs bubbled in the billy with the
crayfish.
Oh! and it had been worth it: To crack
an egg on rock and peel a crayfish ; and
wash them down, unsalted, with the suck
of an orange! While Dan Wiggins said
“Here, cut a hole out of it with my jack-
knife.” And even Chingie Gold, narrow-
ing his eyes, said “Not bad eggs, for a
new kid’s.”
The only shadow in the gully was the
thought of the cigarette afterwards. Ex-
pulsion, with Dan and Chingie, was some-
thing to be hoped for. But if he should
cough, as he usually did under the may-
busn at home; if his head swam and his
knees gave!
Wiggins and Gold were packing up.
They stowed the lines in the billy and
the billy in a cave in the rock behind a
fan of fern.
“We usually leave ’em here,” Dan said.
“Safer.”
Michael peered through the fern, pry-
ing lor the private still.
“And the cigarettes?” he said. “When
do we have them?”
Dan and Chingie looked at one an-
other. Chingie slapped the pockets of his
short pants.
“Blast!” he said. “Forgot ’em. What
do you know about that? Did you bring
’em, Dan?” »
Dan brought out his jackknife with
the claw and the tweezers; the fall of a
stockwhip ; a nut; and a dirty handker-
chief knotted at the four corners to make
a cap or a parachute.
“I didn’t either,” he said. “What do
you know about that?”
Michael was pleased and disappointed.
There were other Sundays. The three
boys walked back to school
together, stopping only to shy
stones at a road-sign.
After lights-out that night,
in the warm breathing dormi-
tory with its faint airs and
noises and odors of soap and
socks, a prefect pacing in the
locker-room, and a sheep
cough-coughing from the
sheep-camp upstairs, Michael did not reply
when La. Plume finished his prayers and
whispered, “Good-night, Michael,” from
the bed beside him.
Instead, he prayed himself, praying,
“Please, God, God: Let me be like Dan
and Chingie. And let them like me, God.
Good-night.” He forgot that his pyjama-
pants were kept up with elastic instead of
cord, and dreamed of robbing orchards
while charges of saltpetre peppered the
orange-trees.
THE dream lasted a full month.
There were good dreams when he
cadged sandwiches from the day-boys at
lunch-time and shared them with Dan
and Chingie; or they tied knots in the
paspalum-grass on the hillslope and
watched the new kids trip. And his
orchard dream came true without the
gunfire, Dan and Chingie shoving at the
seat of his pants while he climbed up
and over the high barbed-fence into the
leathery green of the orange grove. But
there were bad days, when Dan would
not let him field at cricket and Chingie
looked at him through slanting eyes.
The dream became a reality one day
after school. Michael was carving his
name in the floor of the boot-room and
wondering whether he could ask La
Plume to help him with his Latin, Dan
Wiggins came in without Chingie and
said “I’m going down to the shrubbery
to see Alice. Going to come?”
“You mean me?” Michael said. I
mean —Alice Kershaw?”
“That’s right. Coming along?”
“All right.”
Michael did not want to talk. He did
not trust himself.
They went deep down the cow paddock
and back up through the stringybark
wood to the camphor-laurels at the back
of Mr. Kershaw’s house. The laurels
hung over* the paling fence, and they
swung themselves up into the moth bait
leaves and looked down at lettuce and
o Continued on page 32.}
"Curved Lines."
The curve a rose-spray makes against the
sky
Holds all the careless beauty of the
world;
It is the same curve of the hills that lie
With their brown arms so long, so
lovingly curled
A bout the plains; of the breast like a pale
moon
Rising above the baby’s wondering eye.
Who sees the grass-stems bowed before
the wind
Or sparkling light bent round the curving
river,
The rolling shapes of clouds, the yellow
rind
Of the new moon, has seen the line for-
ever
Drawn before the explorers as they
sailed;
The horizon’s curve, indelible on the
mind.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


"Jallyho the Red Fox"
By GEOFF BINGHAM
THE arm of coincidence, so often
generous in actions for both writer
and story-teller, was this morning
doing a trifle of stretching for Mr.
Hicken, although that gentleman was
quite unaware of anything other than
that the morning was very fine. Mr.
Hicken, as he opened the gate of his fowl-
yard, was suddenly aware that the morn-
ing was very dismal indeed, and that the
sun, if it insisted on shining, was brazen
and unsympathetic.
For there, in and near the tall paspalum
of his fowl-and-duckyard, lay the white
feathers of Mr. Hicken’s fowls, and the
plumage of Mr. Hicken’s ducks. Mr.
Hicken, who was usually fairly slow of
reflex, became suddenly galvanised into
alarmed sorrow. This increased as his
gaze travelled and he beheld the gory
corpses of ducks and fowls.
“Foxes!” said Mr. Hicken.
Mr. Hicken, trembling with terror,
stooped and felt the nearest bird. It
was warm. “Dead, too,” thought Mr.
Hicken. His hairy fingers twitched about
the limp bird. Heart beating, he bypassed
a favorite Rhode Island Red, a heavy
Orpington and a skinny Leghorn with
legs stiffening towards heaven. He parted
a clump of giant paspalum. It was then
his agony was greatest, and a groan
parted his lips.
“She ain’t there! ” said Mr. Hicken, and
the truth was that she wasn’t, neither
Emma, his favorite duck, nor her twenty-
five eggs, due, any day, to be hatched
into the sweetest ducklings Mr. Hicken
and Emma had ever hatched. Mr.
Hicken, small tears in his eyes, stared
with deadened sorrow at the empty nest
and slowly but purposefully raised his
head, his eyes and then, higher, a fist
towards heaven, whilst he muttered that
vengeance would be his lot, see if it
wouldn’t.
Another thought struck him, slowly,
and he pondered it a moment, after which
he searched about in the grass for a
weapon. A half-paling came to his
searching fingers, and this he grasped,
firmly, the light of battle gleaming in
dimmed eyes. The warm fowl had made
him believe that fox might still be within
close radius.
He closed the fowlyard gate behind
him, and then almost died of pure
shock as he spied the fox, which,
aflood with the brazen sun, was staring
at him from a near-by bunch of bracken.
It might not have seen him, so absent
was its look, so preternaturally solemn
its gaze.
“God bless us!” said Mr. Hicken.
The fox started a little at that, turned
and ran a few yards. It then sat again
and fixed another look upon the poultry-
farmer. This sort of thing angered the
owner of Emma, so that he swung his
paling, whooped, and ran for the animal,
which, even then, did not seem scared,
apparently having some knowledge of
Mr. Hicken’s age, weakness, and inability
to run fast as a fox. Nor was there a
hound to sool into this infamous beast,
let alone a gun to shoot it. Mr. Hicken
almost burst with indignation over the
whole matter. Long after the fox had
gone did he talk to himself, in slow
rumbles not customary to him, for he
was, normally, a mild man.
HE was still talking to himself, and
deciding to have a yarn with old
Tracey, when the long arm of coincidence
elongated slightly, hovered about the
Hicken establishment and came to rest on
Mr. Hicken, who, drooped over his front
gate, was waiting for someone to share
his indignation and fury. The arm rest-
ing was the fellow who now approached
Mr. Hicken.
By no stretch of the imagination could
he be thought to resemble a fox, although,
to be sure, his hair was reddish, ginger
red, harsh on Ills face and arms, and
sprouting wildly over his head. How-
ever, it was not at the fellow Mr. Hicken
stared, but at the weird contraption
which, horse-drawn, followed the stranger.
It may have been an ordinary cart or
dray, but the sounds it emitted were even
more weird than its appearance, and as
it came closer Mr. Hicken could see that
the sounds came from a bag-covered
contraption. It barely smothered a
strange and mournful wailing, an entire
bedlam of sound which had a strongly
depressing effect upon the already
depressed Mr. Hicken.
The fellow, when he drew abreast of
Mr. Hicken, betrayed a fine pride in his
cart of wails. He even paused a moment
or two to allow the wailing to have its
full effect upon the watcher, and then,
heartily, he said, “G’day.”
Mr. Hicken, who had a story to tell,
said, more eagerly than upon other
occasions, “Ha!”
“Nice day, eh?” said the man.
“No,” said Mr. Hicken deliberately.
“Not very nice at all.”
Far from depressing the stranger, this
seemed to make his expression even
brighter. “Oh!” he said.
“I’ve lost fowls today,” said Mr.
Hicken bluntly. “And,” he added,
“ducks.”
“Chooks,” said the man rapidly.
“Chooks, hey?” He approached Mr.
Hicken, his red beard bristling, his blue
eyes fairly flaming. “You’ve lost chooks,
mister!” He flicked a finger, raised his
right hand in the air, and brought it
down with alarming emphasis. “Do you
know?” he said, peering into Mr. Hicken’s
slightly excited face. “I’m going to tell
you how you lost them chooks.” He
nodded, shook his head with violent
emphasis, and said, almost hoarse in his
whispering, “Foxes.” He said no more,
but drew back, as though, having uttered
that one wild word, no more needed to
be said.
“Yes,” said Mr. Hicken, awestruck, and
in similar tone. He did, however, re-
cover quickly, not wishing to be done out
of his unusual tale.
“Ten hens,” he said, and as this
appeared to astonish the man only
slightly, he added, without blushing,
“fifteen perhaps, with what they took
away.” The man nodded, as though it
was understandable altogether. “And”
announced Mr. Hicken, no longer lean-
ing upon the gate, but drawing himself
to his full height and intaking his breath,
preparing for the big announcement . . .
“. . . Duck and setting. Ducks and
eggs,” supplied the man calmly.
“Yes,” said Mr. Hicken, deflated, and
suddenly helpless.
“Thought so,” said the red-headed
man.
HE then disregarded Mr. Hicken’s
floundering, and, at the same
moment, whistled. This was a sign for
coincidence to depart, hurriedly (albeit
in contentment) and for noise to rush in,
weirdly, as the baying of hounds over the
dark Styx, cries of the damned to be
loosed, the mystery only being made
clear when the red man uncovered the
contraption in the cart to display a pack
of foxhounds, baying and yelping, crying
through the wire-netting behind which
they were enclosed.
“Goodness gracious,” said Mr. Hicken,
The sight startled him, rheuming his eyes
slightly,
“If only,” he said to the stranger, “you
had had them here this morning.”
“It is this morning,” the stranger in-
formed him.
“Early,” said Mr. Hicken in explana-
tion.
“Still get your foxes,” said the owner
of the hounds.
“Not now,” said Mr. Hicken sadly,
from his accumulated bushlore.
“Tallyho the bawsted!” said the red
man, suddenly grinning about some joke
he knew. “Tallyho the bawsted and
we’ll get him.”
The words enchanted Mr. Hicken.
“Well, well,” he said interestedly.
“ ’Course we’ll get him,” said the man.
“You Watch.”
He took one foxhound from the mass
of tan, black and drooping ears, and
dropped him to the ground. The dog
drew his body level with the earth, com-
mencing from the moist tip of a nose
until the tail only, at its tip, was above
ground-level. Then he let out a wail
and a squeak and a howl and a mournful
note of joy, after which he stared at his
master, awaiting orders. His master,
pleased enough with this sort of exhibi-
tion, withheld that word to go.
“I’ll let ’em all go?” he said to Mr.
Hicken.
“Oh, yes,” said Mr. Hicken eagerly.
AS he fiddled with the cage-door the
dogs set up a howling. However,
when he opened it they did not attempt
to emerge.
Then, with one mighty whoop, the red
man ejected them. “Tallyho the red
bawsted!” he shouted at them, and a
light came into their eyes and they
escaped through the opening, dropping
to the ground, their bodies following
black noses which traced absurd patterns
upon the ground. They were visibly
excited, yelping, turning and twisting.
So, too, was Mr. Hicken excited. He
clasped and unclasped his hands, made
nervous movements and wished the
hounds would find the trail.
“Don’t you worry, boss,” the red-
headed man said. “They’ll get him.”
“See that there bunch of trees near
your creek?” he told Mr. Hicken,
“They’ll find him there.”
“It isn’t my creek,” said Mr. Hicken.
“That doesn’t matter,” sad the man
with slight disgust. “They’ll get him.”
Then, surely, they were running to-
wards the creek and the clump of trees.
Weaving throughout the grass, never
looking up, but howling and bursting
into impatient noises until the leader let
out a yell and fairly flew at the trees.
Mr. Hicken clasped his hands and
thought of the fat fox, belly filled with
Emma and her offspring. That fox
wouldn’t be able to run much. He saw
the hounds tumble down the creek bank
and become lost amongst the trees,
“Rushes there, eh?” said the man,
“I’ll bet there is.”
“Yes,” said Mr. Hicken tensely.
“Thought so,” said the man trium-
phantly. “Then he’s there, Tallyho the
red bawsted, they’ll get him.”
And so they might have. There was a
shrill yelping, an excited high-pitched
call and the next moment a brown bundle
tossed itself through the air, bursting on
the sight of the two men, becoming lost
in the tall seeded grass. As it went it
bounced and turned and twisted, leapt
across ridges and flattened along undu-
lations, It was lost and found, seen, lost
and discovered, all in breathless moments.
On the hillside they played, the hounds
and the fox, and the fox, cunning to the
end, raced north, and then south, and,
finally doubling on his own tracks, was
lost again in the grove of trees. When
Mr. Hicken, trembling with fright and
nearly dying from disappointment,
thought the game lost, the fox came run-
ning, this time towards the very fowl-
yard it had last night raided, but close
behind, their throats wide and baying,
their triumphant music to stir the blood
of the old man, came the hounds.
The red man was stirred, too. “They’ll
get him,” he muttered, and then, when
the hounds might have missed their
quarry, he rose to the tips of his toes and
shouted loudly and long “Tallyho the
red bawsted!” Mr. Hicken thumped his
thighs in incredible delight, shouted un-
intelligible words and whooped and
screamed hoarsely until the fox itself
was caught, captured and tossed into
the air; and all the time the red man
was laughing and shouting his war-cry,
<<D UT of course, mister,” said the
man, “there is the matter of pay-
ment, hey?” He thrust his red bristles
at the mild Mr. Hicken.
“Payment,” said Mr. Hicken. His
sorrow returned. He hated that word,
or any like it. Payment, money, bills,
they were all the shadows in Mr. Hicken’s
life.
“A few juicy ducks, or a pair of hens,
eh, what about that?” cried the man.
Mr. Hicken relaxed slightly. “That’s
a lot,” he said, and not without cunning,
“for giving your dogs a feed of fox. I'll
give you a hen.”
“Two hens and a duck,” shouted the
hound-owner.
“Two hens and a duck,” agreed Mr.
Hicken, with reluctance. Following Mr.
Hicken to the fowlyard, the stranger
proceeded to eye the poultry. His
knowledge of poultry was unim-
peachable. None of your three-year-
old loafers of laying fowls, no scaly legs
for him, or even your second-year hens.
Pullets he wanted, just on the lay, and
he selected two of the plumpest. The
duck which was his choice caused a
wringing of the heart to Mr. Hicken.
The dead birds, also, the red-headed man
took, with assumed reluctance, telling
Mr. Hicken that he’d clean up that mess
for him.
In rear of the dog cage was a smaller,
bag-covered cage, and, the bags removed,
a fine collection of birds was revealed,
red and white and black and spangled
varieties of fowls, none of them at all
to be sneered at, and ducks also, and
one goose, which had seemingly lost its
honk. Into this cage were popped the
two pullets and the duck.
“Now,” said the red man, licking his
lips and looking about triumphantly,
as though to give Mr. Hicken something
for his money, or rather, his poultry.
“Now,” he said, “tallyho for the next
red bawsted!”
Seagull.
The gull has a wide span;
Gull, hide the heart of me;
Deep in wing-silver there,
Feathered in ivory.
Circle me over,
Uplifting, downflashing —
Whirl me with wind-spate
At storm breakers’ crashing.
Into wave luminous
Thrust and enfold me,
Circle me over
And scream out my pain :
Circle and hover
My wild-hearted lover.
Where wave-crest rims over
In delicate rain.
Foam-flower derelict,
Tossed by the sea-swell.
Spinning to black deeps
Where distances fade;
Soar with me upward
And bind me in wind-spell:
Weave me in silver
And scintillate fade.
Circle and hover
My wild-hearted lover,
Circle and hover.
And scream out mj> pain —
Skimming the green
Where the roller spins over,
Skimming the spray of the crystal-
line rain.
QUEENSLAND.
PAULA FITZ GERALD.


•>
m
00*k
Wm
There's
no friend
si /./ old
like on
friend •
/
S 1 v ..
M .*■ : /* k;
■'l , : Sv 5,V
Hi
The home is_
i p
SCOTLAND
OTCaliiim's
Scots (II hisky
(Dudlum’s
The uuhiskij is_
(!kf£o^
SWISS FINISHING SCHOOL
Le Colombier
A private and select Finishing School
for the Study of Languages ( French
and German ), Continental Culture,
deportment and domestic science.
For prospectus apply to: —
MAJOR and MADAM JACQUES H. E. CHABLE
Olinda Falls Rd., MT. DANDENONG, Victoria.
A definite and very practical
way to provide for your depend-
ants' security is for you to take
out a suitable life assurance
policy with the Equitable
Probate & General Insurance
Co. Ltd.
The wide experience of “ The
Equitable ” in these matters
is readily available ....
’phone or write to-day.
R. V. PERKINS, General Mgr.
to revel in the c
ful cream-like la
Caticura Soaj
l keeps his lem
\ healthy
qulsitdj
and veh
k| BABY
J LOVES
to revel in the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap. . If
< keeps his tender skin
X healthy and ex-
One of the famous
trio—Cntfcura Soap,
Ointment and Tal-
cam Powder.
qulsitely soft
and velvety.
PENS
Every polnC'
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENG
THE SERVICE MAN
Waiting in China.
“Ek Dum”; Little perceptible
from the'outside has happened in
China during the past week.
The Communists appear to be
concentrating on two phases—
the expansion of their forces
over the South with a view to
pushing all Nationalist Govern-
mental nests, including that at
the Nationalist “capital,” Chung-
king, into oblivion, and the con-
ciliation of the British and
Americans with a view to getting
recognition and enabling Russia
to open the new fight in the
United Nations Assembly for the
handing-over of all China’s privi-
leges, including the veto, to the
new Government.
British and American recogni-
tion of China under the new
regime must come inevitably in
t!he end. Otherwise it can scarcely
be expected that the Communists
would recognise British com-
mercial rights which affect
investments worth perhaps
£300,000,000 sterling, or terri-
torial rights to Hong Kong-
leased territory. But it is un-
likely that matters will be
settled until it is certain that
China has full control of the
mainland provinces and has
declared its attitude towards
Formosa and Hong Kong.
Meanwhile, there is plenty of
military movement. While the
Chinese Communists are engaged
in their usual preliminary display
of human kindness on the Hong
Kong border, a first-rank British
military and diplomatic con-
ference is taking place at Singa-
pore which will explore the
whole of the questions of rela-
tionships and defence.
The problems to be discussed
at the Singapore conference
will take a good deal of solu-
tion. The recognition of Com-
munist China will inevitably be
followed by an access of new
dangers outside but near its
borders.
Once there is recognition the
Chinese Communists will de-
mand the right to establish
Ministries and Consulates
throughout south-east Asia, and
there is little doubt but that
these will become organising-
centres from which Communist
rebels and traitors will accept
their orders and to which they
will fly for refuge when in diffi-
culty. Malaya and the East
Indies, including Borneo, all
teem with Chinese, and Com-
munist interest in these areas
has not been veiled.
The Malayan Chinese, or a
large proportion of them, will
be inclined to support whatever
home Government is in power
in China, since much of their
livelihood depends on their
being able to maintain trade
connections with their home-
land. And, of course, Hong
Kong will come up for discus-
sion in the knowledge that the
Chinese Communist silence on
the subject after preliminary
avowals that the “British Im-
perialists” would be driven out
of China is merely another dis-
play of the technique involved
in the saying that Communism
changes its tactics but never its
ultimate objective—the destruc-
tion of the democratic world
and its replacement by a Soviet
world.
There are few who know the
position who do not realise how
explosive it is, and few world
diplomats apart from Dr. Evatt,
dreaming at Canberra and mov-
ing hitherto-unheard-of Aus-
tralian “Ambassadors” into new
posts as if they were pieces of
ivory on a board, who do not
know that Australia has already
entered into a new era of in-
security in which she should be
organising defence on a large
scale.
New Zealand and Britain
recognised the position months
ago, but to Canberra Asia
appears to exist only as a vague
abstraction.
The Americans have a better
idea, for good reasons.
They are the custodians of
Japan, which is No. 1 hate for
Communists, and of which the
Russian and Chinese Com-
munists are sworn to overthrow
any democratic regime on which
it can lay hands, a nation so
powerful in commerce and de-
fence potentialities that they
regard it as a danger so long as
it is outside the Soviet bloc. And
the Americans have had more
contact with the Russianised
post-war regimes of Eastern
Asia than other Powers. They
have been insulted and excluded
from Dairen and they have had
to fight Communist infiltration
both in Korea and in Japan.
At the moment of writing,
when Communist China is sup-
posed to be in a diplomatic
mood, most of the senior staff
of the U.S. Consulate at Mukden
are under arrest on a charge of
beating a Chinese. It seems
obvibusly a put-up job designed
as a gesture of arrogance.
The Fate of the Navies.
“Ek Dum”: The long-standing
fight in the United States be-
tween the Navy and other forces
has been determined for the
moment by the dismissal of the
Naval Chief of Staff, Admiral
Denfeld, who has been leader
of a sort of passive rebellion
against not only the defence
authorities in general but against
the Navy Secretary, who has
sided with the other services.
The change in overall naval
command came on the same day
as an announcement that the
Pacific Fleet, the most powerful
by old standards to be seen in
that ocean in peace-time, is to be
dispersed except for a small
nucleus.
The plan is to put some ships
in plastic and to transfer some
to the Atlantic and to the United
States coasts.
Naval men find it difficult to
become accustomed to the new
era. The past half-century has
been a period in which the
foci of naval building were
the North Sea and the Medi-
terranean, and the kernel of
the problem, until the early
’twenties, Germany. After that
Japan came more and more into
the picture until, in the age of
the London Naval Agreement,
and the outbreak of hostilities
with China, the Japanese Navy
was the strongest in capital fight-
ing ships outside the British and
American Navies.
The U.S. Navy, during World
War 11, grew to be easily the
most powerful Navy in the world
by old standards. At its top in
1944 it had in service 24 battle-
“One and a half, please.”
ships, two battlecruisers, 26 fleet-
carriers, 98 escort-carriers, 17
heavy-cruisers, 44 light-cruisers,
484 destroyers and 241 sub-
marines.
After the war’s end all major
navies found themselves with
nobody to fight. Germany and
Italy were wiped out from the
viewpoint of surface - ships.
Japan’s Navy had disappeared
completely. It was inconceiv-
able that the remains of the
French Navy ever would be used
against English-speaking forces
or that it could live a week after
being pitted against them.
The only potential enemy in
sight was Russia, and any
strength which the U.S.S.R.
possesses is supposedly in sub-
marines, which have been re-
ported as steadily increasing in
numbers and range, with the
acquisition of the German secrets
of Schnorkel.
The Royal Navy quickly saw
the writing on the wall, and put
most of its major and medium
ships into cotton-wool. Uncle
Sam is now following suit.
With the vast increases in
range and size of aircraft even
the carrier is in doubtful odor.
As far back as 1945 Vice-
Admiral Vian expressed doubts
to the writer as to whether it
was not a sort of intermediary
ship, an improvised launching-
platform which would disappear
when aircraft had developed
sufficient range to make it un-
necessary to stage them by the
use of carriers across oceans to
their objective.
The vision of the Admiral is
becoming a concrete reality
much faster than seemed possible
at that time. The decay of the
carrier technique appears to have
become more rapid by reason of
the nature of the approaches to
Russian territory.
It seems that any sea-war in
the next few years will be divided
as follows:
(a) A war by air and sea to keep
enemy submarines from operating on
trade-routes, with air battles for con-
trol of strategic operation-routes.
C b ) The battle of (friendly) sub-
marines which are free to operate
against merchant shipping.
(c) The battle of the submarines
against port and land objectives,
using bombs of special type and small
aircraft.
There should be a few remark-
able developments in this type
of war. It is not inconceivable
that in a decade or two a very
large proportion of sea-traffic
might “go underground.”
Meanwhile, the capital navies
of the world are 'on remand on
a charge of having no visible
means of subsistence. They
have not yet been found guilty
and sentenced to destruction.
And only further trial in actual
combat is likely to prove
whether they are to survive.
The chances are that they will
when the first frenzy of
enthusiasm for the total air-war
has cooled down. There have
been many periods in history
when navies have seemed mori-
bund or when the owners have
not quite known what to do with
them. But through the ages they
have been consistent in one
thing: they have always come
back.
Greek Rebel Collapse.
British forces in Greece,
about a brigade, are due to
leave soon, a move which is
partly due to the fact that the
Greeks are able to stand on
their own feet and partly to the
new dispositioning of troops in
Europe. The tendency of the
Western Powers seems to be to-
wards concentration and the re-
moval of forces from positions


72 COLOURS• 72 COLOURS •72 COLOURS
4/0
orz/tt
ffa/c/o
OFFFF/4/O/4/
i
COLOURS
p
o
No other colour
pencil equals the
“Derwent” for the
superfine quality of both
lead and wood, the purity and
brilliance of the primary colours
and the delicacy of the pastel tints.
In all 72 accurately repeated colours,
no refinement has been spared to obtain
the highest degree of light fastness and
general permanence. The colours mix and blend
well in both wet and dry applications; effects
similar to water colour and tempera may be obtained by
applying solvents such as Dekalin. Unquestionably, the
“Derwent” will measure up to your most exacting demands.
If unobtainable from your stationer, kindly contact your nearest agent.
Supplied in neat attrac-
tive stand cases in the
complete range of 72,
or in 36, 24, and 12
assorted colours. Also
boxes of 12 separate
colours.
eiiMSJi®
( PENCIL COMPANY LIMITED )
Representatives in Australia
Vie., S. Aust. and Tas.: HUBERT JOHNSON PTY. LTD., 324-330 Flinders St.,
MELBOURNE, C.l. N.S.W. and Queensland: WYNYARD TRADING CO.,
Kembla Bldg., Margaret St., SYDNEY. W. Aust.: CHAS. A. DONALD,
Economic Chambers, William St., PERTH.
ADVERT OF BRITISH PENS LTD., BIRMINGHAM. ENGLAND.
ir*vr
!
i
5
*
i
u
The da y when
WUNDERLICH CEILINGS
will again be available
to all is, as yet, indefi-
nite; in tbe meantime,
due to extreme shortage
of metal sheets required
for their production, it is
inevitable that many
home-builders who
desire to instal these de-
lightful modern ceilings
will be disappointed.
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Box 474. G.P.0., Sydney
Alio at Newcastle and
H
Interstate Capitals
c/cr/ic/i
etal Ceilings
SEAUTirUI* PERMANENT • MODERN
4,
I
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO DAVID HENRY WILSON.—TAKE
NOTICE that DOROTHY WILSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 400 of
1948 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 29th day of
November 1949 and obtain a copy of the
petition free of charge from A. ALISTER
JOHNSON & MCDONALD, Solicitors, of
17 Bolton Street, Newcastle, or JOHN
CORCORAN & CO., Solicitors, Assembly
Hall, 2 York Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO JASPER JOHN LANHAM.—TAKE
NOTICE that ELLA EDITH ALICE LAN-
HAM has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2820 of 1949 on the grounds of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance by the 17th
day of January 1950 at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney and a
copy of the petition may be had without
charge from S. S. MITCHELL, Solicitor,
of Bank Comer, Wickham, Newcastle,
N.S.W., or his Sydney agent, MB. J. K.
DIXON, Solicitor, of 115 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney, N.S.W.—(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDNA MAY CLARK late of 31 Boyle
Street Balgowlah.—TAKE NOTICE that
GORDON WILLIAM CLARK has filed his
Petition for Divorce No. 2520 of 1949 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend the suit you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
13th day of January 1950 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from
MR. G. B. MORRIS, Solicitor for the
Petitioner, 17 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MICHAEL STANTON ERNEST
MAURICE REES late of Sydney.—TAKE
NOTICE that PAULINE BRIDGET REES
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3685
of 1949 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for 8 years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 18th day of January 1950
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from N. V. MENLOVE, Solicitor,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.)
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO GEORGE CARTER STUBBIN late of
Lismore.—TAKE NOTICE that THERESA
ANN STUBBIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3827 of 1948 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards and is asking
for the exercise of the Court’s discretion
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
13th January 1950 and obtain a copy of
the Petition without charge from W. H.
MANN, Solicitor, 247 George Street, Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
m
a
o**
0 o\°\s ,0> V ✓ .**
'.*vvvC---V>
*
'"'>A ■»' o
«v*.,">A oV.v c ,'< o>'’
>A \ \*V»V
V\W^
\\x **’•■•*.
■Sh>\s>
">u>v v '"\
i*
HP
SAUCE
AUSTRALIA'S FINEST THICK SAUCE
iDnaowd
mm
W '
I
t
it- -
■mi
SH
:
30 ONLY NEW B.S.A. 22 “RALOCK”
Rifles Arriving SOON !
THIS fine NEW B.S.A. .22 rifle, of which SO
only are arriving shortly, is a man’s-size weapon.
The “RaloCk” is a semi-automatic or self-loading
sporting Rifle with a number of outstanding fea-
tures. The action is of entirely new conception,
the breech block having a swinging or radial move-
ment as opposed to the usual reciprocating type.
Loading is effected through the side of the butt,
the cartridges being fed into the action by a
spring-loaded magazine which is withdrawn be-
yond the opening. After the rounds are inserted
and the magazine enclosed, the rifle is cocked by
operating the cocking lever. Each round may
now be fired by repeated pressure on the trigger
only. Empty cases are released by the cocking
lever which allows them to fall freely from the
rifle and eliminates the usual violent side or
bottom ejection of hot and dirty cases.
General Specification: The barrel is 22in. long,
bored and rifled with B.S.A. precision. The stock
has a pistol grip and the fore-end is of semi-
beavertail design. The rearsight is adjustable
and with bead foresight gives a sight base of 18in.
Overall length of weapon is 38|in. and weight
61bs. The magazine has a capacity of 8 long-
rifle cartridges. The price for this rifle is £25.
Extremely limited shipments will arrive.
By placing your order IMMEDIATELY you
will be able to get one.
World Wide Mail Order Pty., Ltd.,
Dept. 18, 24 Clarence Street, Sydney.
Please reserve one “Ralock” B.S.A. .22
rifle in my name for which I enclose £lO.
(Pull price of rifle £25). Please advise
me direct when rifles arrive.
Name
Address
in which, involuntarily, they
might find themselves in con-
flict with the Communists.
The suggestion that the British
may get out of Berlin shortly
conforms to the same policy.
The Greek war is not, of course,
over, but, according to the
United States State Department,
nearly so.
The “Times” correspondent
reported the capture of a sabo-
teur who mentioned a force of
3000 Greek rebels training eight
miles from Elbasan, in Albania,
undergoing special training as a
preliminary to a new assault on
Greece. At the same time the
Greek rebels announced on their
radio that they had ceased
operations so as “to avoid the
total destruction of Greece.”
They have suddenly discovered
that what the Greek people
really need is “peace and
bread.” This curious move
might be a manifestation of the
world-wide Communist “peace”
campaign which is in progress
in Australia as well as in
Europe.
It is, at any rate, partly due
to the collapse of the rebel
armies, whose suddenly-
developed pacifist tendencies
synchronise with the dwindling
of their forces on Greek soil
and Marshal Tito’s sudden loss
of interest in “the liberation of
Greece.”
According to U.S. reports
only 2000 rebels, mainly in small
groups, remain on the Greek
side of the border. About 3500
of the original forces have re-
tired to Bulgaria and nearly all
the rest, about 8000, to Albania.
A suggestion has been made
that both forces are being con-
veyed by air and otherwise to
Rumania to be used against their
old patron, Tito. This will give
them a nice change of air with
winter coming on.
No Danger of War!
Ek Dum : The Common-
wealth Government apparently
still clings forcefully to its idea
that there is no danger of war,
and is unperturbed by the fact
that not 30 per cent, of Citizen
Force Defence units are at
strength, that few of them know
anything of modern weapons
apart from the large leaven
which served in World War 11,
and that there is not a fighter
squadron ready to fly in com-
bat on a major scale against a
modernly-equipped enemy. The
Citizen Force seems to be
dwindling every week.
On the other side of the world
there is limitless evidence of
how far the Australian Gov-
ernment is out of step with de-
fensive thought. In Europe de-
fence lines are being moulded
as fast as the work can be done.
Constant experiment and change
goes on in the world of air-
defence construction at a pace
with which it is difficult to keep
up. The Meteor, in Britain, for
instance, to leave out the en-
tirely new machines being put
into the sky, has reached Mark
VIII stage.
President Truman on Satur-
day last signed the U.S. military
estimates for 1950—just on
£7,000,000,000, of which
£274,000,000 for Air Force ex-
pansion has been frozen in re-
serve. Compare it (populations
considered, too) with Australia’s
£295,000,000 for five years and
the contrast in outlook on cur-
rent dangers becomes obvious.
The Balkan position, outside
Greece, becomes more explosive
every day. The Communists
have come to learn that Bulgaria,
a nation of peasants, is not so
easy to handle as it seems.
Since the death of Dmitrov the
situation there has been gradu-
ally going to pieces. The Bulgar
is a stubborn, sullen, determined
fellow to handle, and he never
balks at a fight.
The position on the Yugoslav
borders on the east is one of
armed neutrality with its
Sovietised neighbors. It was
reported at the weekend that
Hungarian guards had opened
fire on Yugoslavs well inside
Yugoslav territory with auto-
matic weapons at the weekend.
It was not sporadic firing, if the
Yugoslav official Ministerial re-
port was correct, but a six-hour
bombardment in which rockets
and hand-grenades were used.
Big troop movements were
later reported on the Yugoslav
side.
It does not make the position
much easier that the Yugoslavs
are as much given to exaggerated
propaganda as Moscow, from
which they learned their tech-
nique.
A flare-up might come at any
time in which Russia, beginning
to move, might find an excuse
for keeping on moving.
A contingent of 24 R.A.A.F.
men who have been flying on
the Berlin air route with sup-
plies for 11 months, during
which time they made 2500
flights and landed 6700 tons of
coal and goods to the Berliners,
were due to arrive in Mel-
bourne an hour before the Cup
on Tuesday. They are one set
of servicemen Cup visitors who
were fully entitled to their
pleasure.


ITS EASY T
TO NEW ZEALAND
GLACIERS, FJORDS, GEYSERS, MOUNTAINS, GLOW-WORM
CAVES, BOILING LAKES, MAORI MUSIC AND COLOUR.
The natural wonders of the world are concentrated
In New Zeialand. TEAL will take you there In a
few hours by luxurious flying boat. Save days to
enjoy yourself. NO WAITING! SEATS AVAIL-
ABLE EVERY DAY. Fly to New Zealand by
TEAL. and see wonderland this Spring.
TEAL
PH
Reservations:
Qantas and Leading Travel Agents
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED
In association with Q. £. A., 6. 0. A. C. and B. C. P. A.
“PLAY SAFE”
Guard
against
heal injuries quickly
with
INFECTION
Double "D"
Don’t neglect minor
injuries .... “play
safe” . . _ avoid in-
fection by healing
up even the smallest
cut or sore with
antiseptic Double
“D” Ointment.
BATHE with warm
water and Double
“D” Eucalyptus.
APPLY Double “D”
Ointment, and
bandage.
ft
rn&ssmm
m
H
mm
Double “D” Ointment soothes and heals, and is an excellent
antiseptic ointment particularly suitable for treating children’s
everyday minor injuries. Keep a jar handy.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U.N.O. IN THE DOLDRUMS.
A general inspection of cur-
rent British Press comment on
U.N.O. finds it even less en-
thusiastic than comment in the
U.S., where the latest session has
been running true to form.
In contrast to Evatt boostings,
London “Spectator” calls it “a
victory of realism” that a meet-
ing of the Atlantic Treaty De-
fence Council has “rated as in-
trinsically much more important
than the fourth General
Assembly of the United
Nations.”
The cause of the U.N.O. dol-
drums is, of course, as the
“Spectator” noted, simple
enough: “Russia is in a posi-
tion to veto all effective action
by the United Nations. When,
therefore, effective action be-
comes imperative, a new or-
ganisation, unequipped with
facilities for obstruction and
confined to States which have
no disposition to obstruct, must
be created to organise it.”
A “Manchester Guardian” re-
port from the U.N.O. meeting-
place at Flushing 'Meadow
carried the ridiculing headlines:
“Great Meeting of Optimists.
U.N. All Dolled-up Like a
Charity Ball.” Noting that in
point of fact the agenda is made
up of “the world’s real political
problems,” the report added:
“But the knowledge that the
United Nations cannot by itself
do anything about any of them
until the disputants have made
their peace or compromise
among themselves has at last
sunk in. And that is why the
delegations give off such a
cheerful glow of resignation.
The Assembly sits down with
the disinterested geniality of a
judge who is sitting the clock
out in the conviction that noth-
ing will come into court that
Ms not first been settled out of
it.”
London “Daily Express”
turns a similarly cold eye on
U.N.O.’s “cultural” offshoot,
U.N.E.5.C.0.: “Britain should
not pay another cent to this or-
ganisation. We can no longer
afford it. But, in any case, all
U.N.E.S.C.O. ever did was to
provide happy hobbies for
cranks and busybodies.”
Reviewing U.N.O. activities
at large, and particularly during
the period when Dr, Evatt was
at the Assembly helm, the
“Economist” discovers little to
record but failures. From the
start of the Evatt term about
this time last year “Not only did
the Soviet Union and its satel-
lites defy the Charter; the
Czech delegate blandly asked
why the Balkan States should
not help Greek guerrillas,
whether the Western Powers
would not do the same for their
friends? Even a small nation
like Israel refused to comply
with the laws of war or to ac-
cept any intervention by U.N.O.
except the ratifying of its vic-
tory. The appeal of Hyderabad
was refused by India in terms
recalling Goebbels’s worst man-
ner, Small wonder that dele-
gates left Paris exhausted, frus-
trated and unwilling to gloss
over the failure of a disastrous
meeting.”
Certainly different from the
version Dr. Evatt rendered after
that first meeting under his
chairmanship.
Noting that the only hopeful
portents at that time were right
outside U.N.O.—Marshall aid
and the success of the air-lift;
with the Western Powers turn-
ing to regional organisation,
“in tardy imitation of the Rus-
sians” —the “Economist” article
further explored the U.N.O. per-
formance and commented:
“The impotence of the United
Nations is written into its
Charter with the Great-Power
veto in the Security Council.
This is consistently used by the
Russians to get their way or to
protect their supporters, in op-
position to six-sevenths of the
world. Normal Assembly vot-
ing has been 54 to 6, Security
Council voting nine to two, the
two being the Soviet Union and
its puppet fellow-member. (In
the first votes of the present
Assembly it has been noticed
that that Russian vote in the
Assembly appears to have fal-
len to a regular five. The repre-
sentatives of Yugoslavia are pre-
sumed to have regained their in-
dependence as a result of Mar-
shal Tito’s quarrel with Mos-
cow.) This means that the
United Nations is powerless
both to enforce peace and to
create the pre-conditions of
peace.
“This year the atomic commit-
tee, the committee on other (or
‘conventional’) armaments, and
the committee charged with or-
ganising the international force
provided for in the Charter have
all reported deadlock. The
points of disagreement are
technical, sometimes almost
trivial; but this does not
matter, for if either side gave
way on them—and the West
has tried this —the Russians
simply think up something
else to cause trouble.
“The Berlin conflict was
raised in Paris by the Western
Powers as a dispute, and kept
alive by Mr. Evatt, the
Assembly’s president, in an
attempt to arrange neutral
mediation. The Russians
presented a blank refusal to
both approaches. In fact,
however, the West had won
the siege of Berlin, and the
May Assembly at Lake
Success saw Mr. Malik,
of Russia, talking behind the
scenes to Mr. Jessup, of the
United States. From these
talks flowed negotiations
for the ending of the
blockade and the resumption
of Four-Power talks on Ger-
many. Thus Lake Success
provided a useful meeting-
place for disputing Govern-
ments and a milieu in which
Russia could begin accepting
the consequences of a defeat.
But it was the air-lift and the
Atlantic Pact that decided the
issue in Berlin —not U.N.O.
“The Greek question was kept
within the competence of
U.N.0., in spite of the most
vociferous propaganda by Mr.
Vishinsky to discredit the
United Nations observer com-
mission. Again this year the
commission reports that Albania
and Bulgaria have helped the
guerrillas. Yugoslavia has ceased
meddling, but Rumania has
taken its place. If the frontier
war ceases it will not be due to
U.N.O. but to the Greek Army.
All the same, the Greeks attach
great importance to having im-
partial witnesses to the interfer-
ence of the Balkan States ; so
that U.N.O. may be said to have
served the cause of law here.
“Palestine,” the “Economist”
article further coldly com-
mented, “offers the greatest ex-
ample yet of violation of the
Charter. U.N.O. has been con-
stantly engaged with a dispute
for which it has a direct re-
sponsibility and in which it has
neither prevented war nor ob-
tained justice. The result was
obtained by truce-violation,
foreign gun-running, genocide—
as that crime is defined in the
convention of 1948. The merits
of the case were set at nought
by the partisanship of the
United States in forcing a par-
tition which rendered war in-
evitable. Even then, if they had
chosen, the Great Powers could
have prevented war and mass
deportation. As it is, a number
of men have given devoted
work, some, besides Bernadotte,
their lives, to permit the United
Nations to affix the rubber-
stamp to successful aggression.”
A Touch of Jitters.
There has been a good deal
of speculation in both the U.S.
and British Press on just why
the news that Russia had the
atom-bomb was simultaneously
and dramatically announced on
September 23 by the British, U.S.
and Canadian Governments.
A London “Time and Tide”
explanation indicates a sharp
attack of jitters:
“It would appear that the
U.S. Government, having ascer-
tained that Russia had the atom-
bomb, feared that Mr. Vishinsky
was going to announce the fact
in his speech to the General
Assembly. The Soviet Foreign
Minister had apparently been
seen hurriedly preparing some
notes in pencil. For some reason,
the Americans seem to have
taken this to mean that the
dramatic announcement was
about to be made by the
Russians themselves. It is said
that the U.S.A. accordingly
pressed Britain and Canada to
join with them in stealing a
march on the Russians. So great
was the hurry that the request
to put out the British announce-
ment at 4 p.m. was not received
at 10 Downing-street until 4.10
p.m. As it turned out, the hurry
—Chicago “Sun-Times.”
"Sorry, old boy— must rub it in
again, y' know.”
was for nothing, because Mr.
Vish insky had not received in-
structions to announce at U.N.O.
Russia’s possession of the bomb,”
Near-bankrupt J. Bull.
In further editorial discussion
of devaluation effects, the “Man-
chester Guardian” declares that
though the remaining gold
reserve of $1404 million may
seem a lot of money, J.B. has
lived beyond Jiis dollar income
to the tune of $BlBO million
since the beginning of 1947, and:
“It must be understood that
there is a real minimum, not
just a planner’s target, for the
size of the reserve on which
Britain can do the .banking of
the sterling area. The planner’s
target of $2OOO million as the
‘safe’ minimum was forgotten
long ago. The necessary work-
ing balance cannot be forgotten.
No one knows until we get there
how small it can be, but it is
pretty certainly not less than
$lOOO million, even when there
is fair confidence in sterling.
Beyond that point the Bank of
England becomes unable to
honor all its obligations to
change sterling currencies into
dollars.
“That is bankruptcy for
Britain ; it has been talked about
often enough in the last two
years and has not happened, but
that does not mean that it never
will. It would mean that the
sterling area would break up ;
that a large part of world trade
would be disrupted ; that British
imports would fall sharply ; and
that in the resulting industrial
disturbance there would be
heavy unemployment and little
chance of curing it.”
The comment grimly adds;
“We shall not be bankrupt by
the end of the year. We shall
be early in 1950 if we do not
very quickly earn more dollars.”
Tito-Stalin Feud.
Recent air-mails indicate that
the British Press generally takes
no light view of the apparently
still-worsening relations between
Stalin and Tito. As an example,
the London “Daily Telegraph”
military correspondent:
“There is no doubt that the
Russian Notes to Yugoslavia are
to be taken very seriously indeed.
Moscow would not have com-
mifted itself thus far unless it
had good grounds to suppose
that it could implement its
threats. Failure would involve
it in catastrophic loss of face.”
That writer, Lieut.-Gen. H. G.
Martin, did not expect any im-
mediate open war, but first an
attempt to get rid of Tito with
the aid of “the enemies within
the gate” (hence, no doubt, the
savage purges), such traitor
action to be possibly followed
by incursions into Yugoslavian
territory camouflaged as the
work of guerrilla or rebel bands.
As another typical example,
the “Sunday Times’s” diplo-
matic correspondent declares
that Western statesmen, despite
preoccupation with their own
economic crisis, “attach the
utmost importance to the present
Eastern quarrel”:
“The situation is now the more
inflammable in that the Soviet
Politburo itself, quite apart from
the Cominform, is committed to
the removal of Tito, There is


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OM4
OSUUJVA*
i 4. WX OD * ,
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co,
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
ETEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
" THE PEOPLE’S KING”
No other ruler has met so many of his subjects, so fully
shared their lives as King George VI. Shy and retiring by
nature, he has become one of the most loved monarchs in
history. In November Reader’s Digest is the intimate story
of King George VI whose one indulgence in a gruelling 10-hour
day is tea in bed at 8 a.m.
Also in November Reader’s Digest
Treat your colon kindly.
SHOULD you have a bowel
movement daily . . . worry
over “Retting- rid of those
poisons” ? What are the pros
and cons on roughage, oil,
enemas? Famous medical
authority Dr. W. H. Glafke
shows how we dangerously
drug our insides . . . gives
advice on how to keep your
system working properly.
What's wrong with American
women ? Plenty ! agree
psychologists, sociologists, and
more and more American men
who travel abroad. Famous
author and newspaper corres-
pondent Deland Stowe sets off
a conversational bombshell
listing shortcomings of Ameri-
can women, faults ranging
from being spoiled to actually
lacking Interest In men.
Social Drinking. What foods
help you stay sober? CAN
any amount of liquor, large
or small, speed you up
physically or mentally? Does
alcohol harm a nursing
mother or unborn child? Can
it break up the “beginning of
a cold”? Here are the actual
facts about drinking.
30-page condensation from
Number One best-seller,
"Father of the Bride." When
Daughter takes the long, long
trail to the altar, what hap-
pens to Pop’s nerves and
cheque book? Ed Streeter
(author of the humor classic
Dere Mable) here tells all.
Uproarious, yet tender story
of the long-suffering: male
parent, delightfully illustrated
by Gluyas Williams.
What chance has small
business? Despite mergers,
chain stores, giant industries,
there are now twice as many
business concerns in the United
States as in 1900. Here are
interesting angles on how
small businesses actually have
an edge on big setups . . .
and the outstanding reason
for the failures of small outfits.
Doesn't anybody like kids?
People refuse you lodging if
you have kids, glare at them
for asking a question in the
movies, report them for
chalk-marking a pavement. An
angry father makes a thought-
provoking comparison with
his childhood . . . tells how
we’re making the world unfit
for happy children.
In this issue—more than
30 articles of lasting
interest, selected from
leading magazines and
current hooks , and con-
densed to'save your time.
Read and enjoy November
Readers Digest
ONE SHILLING All Newsagents and Bookstalls
no doubt in the West that this
is a war to the death between
Stalin and Tito.”
Resurgent Germany.
Suddenly, with the swinging
into action of the West German
Parliament at Bonn, Germany
is seen by a London “Observer”
writer as once more a force to
be reckoned with in all European
affairs.
What was till lately looked on
as something belonging to a
vague and misty future has all at
once become the present; made
still more real by the counter-
moves in the Soviet zone. In
glaring fact, “Germany is back
on the stage as an active factor
in world politics,” and “It is
suddenly becoming clear that the
two questions—whether Europe
can exist and whether Germany
can be absorbed into Europe—
will be decided now, either by
action or by default. Almost
unawares, we have entered a
fateful period of history.”
The simultaneous successful
launching of the German Parlia-
ment at Bonn and the initial
European Assembly meeting at
Strasbourg “have, as it were,
torn away the veil from hidden
political realities ; previously, we
could only guess what kind of
Germany would emerge from
the Hitlerian catastrophe and
what chances there were of
European unity. Now we see.
“What do we see? The very
first thing, which strikes the eyes
with blinding force, is that Ger-
many is- there again, and that
Europe is not yet there. This fact
is incontestable, and its import-
ance cannot be exaggerated. If
Europe is ever to have a chance
of absorbing Germany, Europe
must now make haste to catch
up with Germany in the race for
existence.
“The German State that was
born at Bonn is a full, hard,
palpable reality, throbbing with
life. Its two Houses of Parlia-
ment swung into action as
smoothly as if there had been
no interruption in German
Parliamentary life since 1933.
Its Civil Service, efficient as
ever, stands by for Ministerial
orders.”
Germany, in short, is “under
her own steam again, ready to
strike out on her own road, for
good or ill.” What way it will
take (in the view of this student
of Europe writing in the
“Observer”) depends on what is
done to complete the building of
a newly-united Europe begun at
Strasbourg. Pending success in
this (which, the writer declares,
depends mainly on Britain) we
have “the stark fact that, with
Germany again in existence and
Europe as non-existent as ever,
we are on the road back to the
situation which has resulted in
two world wars. The factors
which could produce a third
world war from that same situ-
—Chicago “Sun-Times.”
ARMED CONVOY.
ation can already be clearly
seen.
“At present Germany, in spite
of nationalist undercurrents, is
still sincerely willing to join
Europe. But she cannot join a
Europe that does not exist. If
it becomes clear that Europe
will never exist as a State, Ger-
many’s mood will change ; her
nationalism will reassert itself ;
she will once more pursue purely
national aims by playing alter-
nately her Western and her
Eastern cards ; and the second
world war will have been no
more effective than the first.
“That is the situation which
Bonn and Strasbourg have re-
vealed. We have to choose be-
tween the unknown dangers of
merging ourselves and Germany
together in a federated Europe,
and the known and deadly
dangers of drifting back to the
situation of 1914 and 1939. The
choice lies with us, and the time
for decision is now.”
War in Trade.
Apart from having the Japs
as increasingly strong competi-
tors in various kinds of trade in
America, and Germany rising
fast as a rival in Europe, Britain
is encountering stiff opposition
from subsidised nationalised in-
dustries of countries beyond the
“iron curtain,” particularly
Czechoslovakia.
British Press reports state, for
example, that the Yorkshire
textile industry, highest on the
list of British dollar-earners, is
finding it impossible to compete
against Czech textile prices in
Canada. In various West Euro-
pean countries —Holland especi-
ally —Czech motor-cars are com-
peting very successfully against
British.
On the question of why such
nationalised “industries are able
to beat the British, a London
“Times” special correspondent,
in a particularly illuminating
article written after being re-
cently in Czechoslovakia, dis-
misses any suggestion that
greater efficiency might be the
answer: “There is good reason
for believing that private enter-
prise has nothing whatever to
fear from Czech nationalised
factories on the score of effi-
ciency.” On the contrary,
Czech labor productivity is low
and declining and the standard
of managerial and technical skill
is poor, “owing to the ascend-
ancy of politicians in industrial
matters.”
What is happening, the cor-
respondent explains, is simply
due to the fact that a Czech
national enterprise doesn’t have
to worry about profit, because
export prices are all fixed by
the Government without refer-
ence to the profit aspect, and
they vary greatly from country
to country; for example, a car
that sells in, say, Holland or
Pakistan at the equivalent of
£l9O sells in the “iron-curtain”
country of Poland at £490,
though the cost of manufacture
“is not less than the price fixed
for Poland.”
Confiscation and Kremlin
gold mainly provide the neces-
sary subsidising funds: “When-
ever the export price of a motor-
car, or any other article, is below
the cost of production, the
nationalised factory concerned
is entitled to draw the difference
from a source known as the fund
for industrial development, for
which provision is made in the
State Budget. This fund is
financed from the confiscation
of private property and the pro-
ceeds of a sales tax.. . .The
fund is not inexhaustible, but
for all practical purposes it may
be assumed that it will last in-
definitely—by no means all
private property has been con-
fiscated so far.”
The fund largely enables the
Czech nationalised industries to
undercut British and other pri-
vate enterprise ; and, of course,
“there is good reason to believe
that prices are often based on
estimates of the political value
of a particular market in the
overall strategic plans of the
Communist leaders.”
Even with such a fund, under-
cutting private enterprise in
world markets would be too
costly a business for Czecho-
slovakia, dependent for raw
materials on being able to sell
exports to the West. “It has
escaped notice, however, that
last December the Soviet Union
announced that it had granted
Czechoslovakia a loan in gold
and hard currencies. The Soviet
Union is probably the second-
largest producer of gold in the
world, and its gold has little or
no internal value. It is therefore
available in its entirety to en-
able the Soviet Union to profit
from the West’s seemingly insati-
able demand for gold. By
marrying Soviet gold to Czecho-
slovak nationalised industry, the
Communist leaders appear to
have a perfect weapon with
which to undermine the hated
capitalist system—or would have
if the Czechoslovak industries
were larger and less dependent
on the West for supplies of raw
material. Even, however, on a
limited scale, a good deal can
be accomplished. The more a
market is in favor of the buyer
the greater the ability of the
Soviet-Czechoslovak combine to
make trouble for private enter-
prise, which, by and large, is
obliged to fix its prices on a
normal, or profit, basis.”
The writer supports the ironic
point already referred to here,
that in this Britain-damaging
Soviet - subsidised competition
“The [Czech] nationalised textile
industry is competing against
Yorkshire with wool bought with
the aid of a credit from the Aus-
tralian Government.”
Dragnet Digest.
Chifley, Catologist. —Weeks before
Mr. Chifley made his dollar-loan
announcement London “Financial
Times,” referring to a dollar-loan
furphy then current, commented: “Mr.
Chifley, the Australian Prime Minister,
has acquired such a reputation for
letting the cat out of the bag in the
matter of developments affecting the
sterling area that any kind of news
on the affairs of the area originating
in Australia is apt to be taken
seriously these days, however im-
probable it may appear.”
* * * *
Extracting “Confessions .” Tito
used the term “monstrous methods,”
Moshe Pijade, a Vice-President of
Yugoslavia, says “dark methods,”
both of them referring to the puzzling
“confessions” of accused Corns and
others; never secured anywhere, it
may be noted, except beyond the
“iron curtain.” London “Observer”
comments on the riddle: “In Yugo-
slavia there must exist persons with
a full knowledge of these methods,
who are in a position to speak. It
would solve a great mystery if they
were to say exactly how the Soviet
authorities obtain public confessions,
the one point in their technique of
dictatorship which surpasses Hitler’s.”
* * * *
France to Germany. —Judging by
utterances of French leaders of prac-
tically every political color, anyone
might be led to believe the old (and
certainly excusable) hostility had sud-
denly died down. “When, however,
it is no longer a question of speeches,
contacts and confidential little talks
after well-chosen meals,” notes
London “Economist,” “French policy
takes on a very different appearance.
It is no exaggeration to say that the
chief reason why every concession
made to Germany in the last three
years has failed to restore German
confidence is because the French have
obstructed it until it has long since
lost all value in German eyes.” The
same process, it states, is still at work.
* * <• *
A Devaluation Error. —“ The ster-
ling-group countries,” London “Finan-
cial Times” has editorially com-
mented, “had a major interest in any
readjustment of the sterling-dollar
rate. Common courtesy should have
induced the British Government to
discuss with them in advance such
vital matters as the need for devalua?
tion, the extent of devaluation and
the timing of devaluation. In fact,
nothing of the kind was done.”
* * * ♦
Twice-bitten J. Bull. —Pithy com-
ment by a London “Daily Telegraph”
letter-writer: “Twice in our lifetime
—twice, indeed, in less than a genera-
tion —has devaluation of the currency
supervened upon a few years of
Socialist rule. And in 1949, as in
1931, it is a Socialist Chancellor who
has found himself compelled to call
a halt to Socialist policy. For, like
it or not, the final measure and ex-
pression of policy is in money.”
* * * #
Friendship for Italy. —An Italian
correspondent in London having re-
ferred in an article in his home paper
to “the atmosphere of sympathetic
friendliness which surrounds the Italian
here more than any other foreigner,”
the “Manchester Guardian” joined in
testifying to the renewal of a cen-
turies-old friendship. “This,” it said
of the Italian’s report, “is true: as a
result of the war, which threw our
two peoples together, not only as
somewhat ineffectual enemies, allies
and liberators, but by bringing them
into each other’s homes and even
families, the profound English need
and friendship for Italy, which
Fascism almost destroyed, has sprung
up again, and is still growing.”
* * * *
Atom-Bomb a Lesser Danger. —On
the speculations and alarms follow-
ing news of the Soviet atom-bomb,
London “Times” declared there was
a much closer danger; that “So far
as can be seen ahead, the most direct
and insidious threat to the Western
world is likely to be not military but
political and economic.” Until Soviet
actions drove it, along with many
others, to change its early post-war
notions, the “Times” had been
warmly friendly towards the entire
Russian set-up. It still sees no threat
of open war from that quarter:
“Russia has no desire to attack pre-
ponderant military power; and she
chiefly counts on extending her rule
through Communist gains in the event
of failure in the Western economic
recovery.”
* * * *
A Word for Argentina. The
Argentine, which gets a decidedly bad
“Press” altogether in both Britain
and the U.S., copped an extra barrage
over its actions following Britain’s
devaluation move. The only word
seen in its favor is this from a
London “Time and Tide” leader;
“There are loud complaints that the
Argentine is trying to keep all the
advantages of devaluation and to
export all the disadvantages, but isn’t
that what we are hoping, if not
trying, to do? No doubt the Argen-
tinians go about these things in a
flamboyant way, but would the results
be any different or more palatable
if they assumed our calm effrontery
on these occasions? We have pre-
cipitated these latest disturbances by
our unilateral action in devaluing the
£ to an inordinately low level. Up to
now Ministers have appeared pretty
complacent about the repercussions
at home and indifferent to the reper-
cussions abroad. The Argentine has
reacted truculently, but our policy
can hardly be described as good inter-
national economic manners.”


MS
gift?
AGA
HEAT STORAGE COOKER
Ready for instant service, 24 hours a day . . . and you don’t
even need to turn a switch! That’s AGA service for you. This
unique British-made cooker burns a specified, and very small,
quantity of coke in the most simplified and modern manner.
You 11 find an AGA fast and safe; clean to use; and cooler.
Its scientific insulation prevents the heat from escaping into
your kitchen. Streamlined, chromium-plated and enamel-
finished, the AGA bakes and browns to perfection . . . steams,
simmers, boils and fries . . . and does a really glorious grill.
GUARANTEED . . FOR TEN YEARS
The AGA will last a lifetime, and is guaranteed
against faulty materials or workmanship.
DEMONSTRATION
Come and see the AGA boil a 5-pint kettle in
5 minutes! Check its economy and its efficiency!
LEVIN AND COMPANY LIMITED
Sole Agents for AGA Heat Storage Cooker
45 King Street, Sydney. 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert Streets, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth.
HO LY YEAR
1950
Ta
ome
Plan NOW to stop over in
for Holy Year Pilgrimages
on your trip to London
via “KANGAROO” Service.
Travellers flying overseas by
‘Kangaroo” Service next year can plan now to be
present in Rome during the historic Holy Year
ceremonies. See at first-hand Rome’s
monuments to religion and her treasuries of
art and culture, both ancient and modern.
Q.E.A.-8.0.A.C. offers a choice of two travel
plans—stop-over at Rome (no extra fare) on the
“Kangaroo” Service to or from London ; or
fly direct to Rome —in 3\ days, with return
passage guaranteed.
The
Vatican
Guards
BOOK EARLY! Be sure
of speedy passage to
Rome by comfortable
Constellation, with
fine meals in the
air and unsurpassed
steward service.
Accommodation in
Rome arranged, if
desired.
Consult your travel agent, or
OE-A " B O A C
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
K3O
‘Qantas means the World to You!”
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
T T T
“Drop hypocrisy and teach dewy-
eyed brides before the wedding that
normal men are naturally poly-
gamous.”—Letter to Sydney “D.T.”
This is only true of the harem-
scarem type.
d* *l*
“My complexion often looks
muddy.”
—Correspondent in woman’s paper.
You must have been going to
the pack, dear.
4* 4*
“Anyone with a dirty garbage-can
should be made to empty it.”
—Letter to Sydney daily.
Rubbish!
“When a girl’s whistled at, it may
be the turning-point in her life.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
She never looks back after
that.
+ 4*
“What has become of the fine
womanly figures we saw in Sydney a
decade ago?”
Many of them, alas, are feel-
ing the weight of years.
+ +
Encircled.
“Sydney fashion experts agree that
the latest Parisian jewelled anklets
will be the correct wear for special
occasions.” — Sydney “Sun.”
I could hardly suppress a blush
when I was greeted by my
attractive hostess, always a
stickler for correct wear, clad in
her dazzling Parisian ruby
anklet offset by 36 small bril-
liant stones.
“Darling boy!” she cried as
she handed me a cocktail. “So
glad to see you! ” '
“So glad to see you, too!” I
managed to stutter. “That is—
er —I mean” I was momen-
tarily blinded by the flash of
gems and almost upset my drink.
“Silly boy!” she pouted.
“Come! I don’t think you know
Miss Flash.” She steered me
towards a curvesome blonde in
the corner, and I was at once
struck by the extreme beauty of
her anklet, comprising a string
of graded pearls with a rhine-
stone drop which scintillated
tantalisingly as she waved her
foot in time with the orchestra
and sipped her gin and two.
“Enchanting! ” I murmured
involuntarily, carried away by
the simple de rigeur of her attire.
She gave me a melting glance
and placed her hand lightly on
my sleeve.
“Let us go out into the palm
court,” she chided, “where we
can be alone.”
As I gazed at her anklet, my
eyes became immovable. My
blood grew hot. I called in a
weak voice for more drink but
no sound came. Neither did
a drink.
I swayed. Then with a yell
I dived through the French-
windows into the street.
After all, I didn’t want to be
instep with fashion.
Jonas Dill.
+ 4* Ht*
“The bit of ground you stand on
isn’t important. It’s who stands on
it with you that counts.”
—Somerset Maugham.
Especially if he has a title.
"But, dear , he SAID he'd fix the bath as soon as he could.”
Opportunities Missed.
“The dangerous age for men is
when they begin to regret the sins
they didn’t commit.”
—Psychologist Richard Attridge.
When time into our dwindling
years
Is eating like a deep-set canker
And old-age ominously nears,
For what in youth do we most
hanker?
Is it the days when we ref rained
From stealing ripe and luscious
peaches ?
Or times when meekly we re-
mained
At school while mates slipped
off to beaches ?
Or do we kick ourselves to think
That we fought shy of potent
liquor
And modestly were wont to
shrink
From sin when youth’s hot blood
ran quicker ?
Ah no ! I think we rather fret,
When tongue-lashed by an angry
missus.
To think (alas, for vain regret /)
We might have smothered her
with kisses.
BERT.
A Lot at Steak.
“During his ‘goodwill tour’ of
Portugal a bullfight was put on in
General Franco’s honor in Lisbon.
In it the bulls, none of which was
slain, had their horns padded.”
It was a gala day for the Pork
and Beans.
The great arena, which had
been specially converted for the
occasion, had been the scene of
some of the most fiercely-con-
tested games of croquet, the
new national game.
The green sward now had
been covered ail over with old
mattresses in case any of the
picadors, matadors, toreadors
and flywiredors got knocked
over.
There came a great outburst
of applause as the first bull, an
elderly animal with the mange,
walked slowly into the arena, fol-
lowed cautiously by a matador.
Instead of the usual red cloak
his was of a delicate pastel-
green, and as he began waving
it behind his back the bull
lowered its head. Before it had
time to start nibbling at the flea
on its off-front hock, however,
the matador had covered the
mattress-track 100 yards to the
escape-gate in 9.8 seconds.
It was obvious by the manner
in which the bull heaved a sigh
that it was becoming dangerous,
so the authorities ordered 10
extra layers of cotton-wool to
be put around its horns. It was
then that a picador rushed out
and goaded the animal by jab-
bing it in the rump with the
butt-end of a lily. By the time
Ferdinand had turned to see
what was tickling his hide the
picador was clearing the safety-
fence with three feet to spare.
It was obvious from a study
of General Franco’s face that
this humane form of bull-
fighting was having a powerful
emotional effect on him.
Outside the ring the toreador
was awaiting his chance. Then,
as he saw the bull sit down to
take the weight off his aching
feet he rushed in, unrolling a
butcher’s plan on which an out-
line of a bull was marked out
in sections showing where the
best cuts of beef were. Look-
ing keenly from it to the bull,
he bent down swiftly and
chalked a small circle with a
dot in the centre abaft the
brisket. Then, stepping back, he
whipped from its sheath a tele-
scopic papier-mache sword and,
lunging forward with magni-
ficent confidence, spectacularly
made his theoretical “kill.”
The tremendous outburst of
applause which greeted this
daring feat almost startled the
bull out of his torpor. As he
slowly turned his head the
gallant toreador dived under the
nearest mattress until the danger
was over. The bull was so un-
nerved by these proceedings that
he had to be carried out of the
ring.
The next bull, also well
beyond middle-age, entered the
ring after about half an hour’s
persuasion. It was polled, and
in case it became so savage that
it might attempt to nudge its
persecutors a pillow had been
tied across its forehead.
With a daring that lashed the
big audience into a frenzy of
excitement the matador waved
his grey cloak behind the bull as
it stood in the centre of the ring
gazing meditatively into space.
Three times the gallant fellow
did this, and a delicious shudder
went through the crowd as they
thought of the awful risk he ran
in case the bull turned around
and saw him.
After this had got the bull to
such a state of annoyance that it
was almost swishing its tail a
picador rushed in, blew a split-
pea out of a tube straight at its
flank and rushed out again. A
veritable hail of cheering greeted
this intrepid act.
Then into the ring, clad in a
uniform of black, which is the
color that long experience has
proved puts Portuguese bulls
into their most benevolent mood,
bounced Francisco Scuela,
Lisbon’s most famed and most
fearless toreador. Delaying only
to adjust his running-shoes, he
tore up to the bull, which had
gone over to lean against the
fence, and with magnificent
courage clamped a heavily-
chloroformed rag over its
nostrils.
As the bull slowly keeled over,
a sure but bloodless kill, the
crowd simply went mad, and
had the Cabinet possessed a
Minister with such tendencies
he must surely have rushed out
and kissed him.
The sight of the new humane
technique of rendering Ferdi-
nand hors de combat so wrought
on General Franco, brought up
as he had been on blood and
sand, that he burst into tears,
and thereupon swore to Dr.
Salazar that when he returned
to Spain he would straightway
make Spanish bullfighting simi-
larly humane.
Did someone say that’s all
bull?
Bo.
Extravaganza.
“If you’re the dramatic type, there’s
drama in Cassini’s evening gowns.”
—Fashion magazine.
Her gown, I think, was classic;
draped
A bout her figure like a sheath,
No lovely curve or line escaped
Evaluation from beneath
Its folds. And, knowing this, I’d
say
The lady’s feelings were
ecstatic.
But when a shoulder-strap gave
way,
The change at once became
dramatic !
PERCIVAL.


//
m
m
%
-
*
w
X
0?
m
m
S**s
1®
C*
*
m
**
**
6*
*l*
S 0
7'
7
m
*
X
jT
<\
'W6
A happy family life depends not altogether
on how much is in the pay envelope but
rather on how wisely the money is spent.
Money wasted to-day on unnecessary
things deprives the family of the comforts
they should enjoy in the years to come.
It may even deprive the children of a good
education, a real start in life.
The Commonwealth Bank offers you an
easy means of saving any surplus you may
have after paying every day expenses.
Open accounts for yourself and all the
family. Teach your children the value of
money and encourage them to save.
Store up comfort, security and peace of
mind by saving something every week.
PLj ia fe Save now .
COMMONWEALTH
<<yw%s£BANß
C.S.B. 30-82.
Ancestors of
an Industry
s
Jd
A. W. Williamson played a prominent part
in th? establishment of science degrees at London
University, an event which has had a profound
influence on the development of science in Great
Britain. Though Williamson's greatest contribu-
tion to chemistry was as a teacher—he was
professor of chemistry at University College for
38 years—he was also a research worker. His
achievements in this field included a masterly
study of ether, and the invention of methods of
gas analysis which are partly responsible for the
excellence of domestic gas supplies today.
Williamson was born in Wandsworth in 1824.
After studying chemistry and mathematics in
both Germany and France, he was elected to
the professorship of chemistry at University
College in 1849. His eminence as a teacher and
research worker was recognised by the Royal
Society when he was awarded its Royal medal
in 1862, and he was twice President of the
Chemical Society. By the time of his death in
1904, his tremendous activity in
both the academic and industrial
spheres had established him as
one of the great figures in con-
temporary chemistry.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
As this page went to the printer
Australia was about to witness the
annual phenomenon of thousands of
people who bet but once a
year, choosing as the medium of
their flutter the race in which the
probability of picking a winner
reaches its lowest ebb. And the field
for the 1949 Melbourne Cup looked,
even for that race, an exceptionally
open one.
Setting the stage for the big race,
the V.R.C. spring carnival opened
with Derby Day at Flemington on
Saturday. It was a day of splendid
racing, but, with visitors taking out
five of the six races run, local owners
got a very slender cut of the £13,500
prizemoney distributed.
Following his good win in the W.
S. Cox Plate, and his previous ill-
luck in the A.J.C. Derby and Rosehill
Guineas, Delta was a ready-made
favorite for the Derby, and, starting
at 6 to 4, he never really looked like
losing. It was a rough-run race,
with three horses coming to grief
early in the piece, but Delta, gaining
a good position in third place on the
rails right from the start, missed all
the trouble. Taking charge shortly
after entering the straight) Delta won
quite comfortably, though forced to
do his best by Dickens and King’s
Coin, who deadheated for second;
winning margin was 1£ lengths.
As he watched Delta win him his
first important race, owner A. Basser
must have said to himself “Well, it’s
about time.” For some years now
Basser, a Sydney jeweller, has con-
sistently paid top prices for what
have looked choice lots at the yearling
sales. It is estimated that he had
forked out some £40,000 without
previously getting anything approach-
ing a really good horse.
Victoria’s new Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, did the honors at Flemington
on Saturday, and had evidently been
told of Basser’s long striving to win
a Derby; his Ex. decorated Basser
himself with the blue sash, and surely
he deserved it as a reward for remark-
able staying-power.
A son of Midstream and the
Magpie mare Gazza, Delta cost 2600
guineas as a yearling, and the Derby
victory took his stake-earnings past
the £lO,OOO mark. Delta was ridden
by N. Sellwood and is trained try
Maurice McCarten, who should know
what is needed to win a Derby. In
his riding days McCarten won two
Victoria Derbies and four A.J.C.
Derbies, as well as several New Zea-
land classics.
With due respect for Delta’s suc-
cess, the most slashing display seen
on Derby Day was that of Chicquita
in winning the mile Wakeful Stakes
for three-year-old fillies. Starting at
3 to 1 on in the field of 19 and
carrying, with a 141 b. penalty, 9.4,
Chicquita missed the start, within the
first furlong was knocked on to her
nose and lost a dozen lengths, came
round the turn 10 horses wide, and
then won as she liked. There must
be many an owner who kicks himself
every time he recalls seeing Chicquita
unwanted and passed in at 300
guineas at the yearling sales.
Chicquita is now, of course, to
contest tomorrow’s Oaks, and while
good things are made to be beaten,
it is difficult to give any other runner
much chance of doing so in this case.
Presumably there is some limit to
Chicquita’s ability, but it has not
even been hinted at as yet.
Full-brothers Comic Court, Comedy
Prince and St. Comedy all raced at
Flemington on Saturday, and while
St. Comedy found the Derby a bit
beyond him, his elder brethren landed
a nice winning double —not the first
time that they have done so. With
Carbon Copy, Vagabond and other
fair animals engaged, the 10-furlongs
L. K. S. Mackinnon Stakes was ex-
pected to be a thriller, but Comic
Court, starting favorite at 6 to 4,
had a very comfortable victory.
Riding the favorite, J. Purtell trailed
the pacemaker, Cronides, to the
three-furlongs mark; at that point
Carbon Copy attempted a forward
move, but, given his head, Comic
Court streaked away to an easy lead.
At the finish Comic Court had nearly
three lengths in hand from St. Razzle
and Stamen.
Also ridden by Purtell, Comedy
Prince tackled the mile Cantala
Stakes, and, despite his good show-
ing in the Caulfield Cup, was allowed
to start at 12 to 1, Flemish being a
solid favorite at twos. Member of
another family of good performers
in the Gem horses, Beau Gem at-
tempte'd to lead all the way, which
was asking a lot in view of his top-
weight plaster of 9.3. Nevertheless,
Beau Gem hung on gamely when
tackled by Comedy Prince in the
straight, and Comedy Prince had tc
be desperately ridden to score by £
half-length; Flemish took thirc
money.
Having collected a couple of inches
of rain during the week the track
at Flemington was not conducive to
really fast times; had it been, All
Love’s Australian record of 58£sec.
for 5 furlongs may well have been
lowered. As it was the A.J.C.
Gimcrack Stakes winner Mighty Song
ran race-record time of 59|sec. in
winning the £2OOO Maribyrnong Plate.
A misguided loyalty to a local horse
in preference to the Sydney visitor
led punters to drop many a shekel
on Gallivant, who started faVorite at
5 to 4. Mighty Song went out at
7 to 4, and simply toyed with the
opposition; actually she did not go
to the front until they had passed
the 2-furlongs mark, but once to the
fore she left them, standing. Mighty
Song won by four lengths from King
Richard, while the favorite Galli-
vant could do no better than dead-
heat for third with Folderol three
lengths further back.
Like several other Ajax youngsters
in the past. Mighty Song seems too
brilliant ever to develop stamina;
however, she is out of a Marconi-
gram mare in Chanson, and may
prove an exception. Mighty Song is
a half-sister to Victory Lad, who was
early regarded as mainly a speedster
but did win at up to 14 furlongs.
Mighty Song gave veteran Sydney
trainer D. Lewis his first Flemington
winner since he took the Derby with
Prince Standard three years ago.
Lewis did not have to wait that long
before notching up another winner,
which was Foxzami, finishing gamely
to win the Hotham Handicap by a
neck from the New Zealander King’s
Ransom and Benvolo. It was the
first sign of good form shown by
Foxzami since he had won the S.T.C.
Handicap (12f.) in July.
Throughout his spring campaign
Carbon Copy has seldom seemed the
horse he was in the autumn, and
following his disappojnting effort in
the Mackinnon Stakes he was
scratched from the Cup. Another
Cup fancy eliminated on Saturday
was the Metrop. winner Count
Cyrano, who had to be destroyed
after meeting with an accident on
the training track in the morning.
It was an unfortunate happening, for,
apart from being a young horse with
many good wins left in him, Count
Cyrano’s beautiful pedigree would
have made him a valuable addition
to any stud.
* * # *
A card of eight races contested by
horses of doubtful merit proved too
much on Saturday for Moorefield’s
erstwhile reputation as a “punters’
paradise.” Only one favorite was
successful, while five winners started
at double-figure quotes.
The track was extremely fast (as
goat-tracks go), and, in passing the
post first in the Flying Handicap,
Caruso clocked 1.141, to lower the
course record of 1.141 set by the
brilliant Pentheus nearly 20 years ago.
However, the honor of this achieve-
ment, plus second money of £l6O,
was Caruso’s sole reward. A protest
on behalf of Royal Meteor (A. Pod-
more), beaten a head after bad inter-
ference, was upheld.
In three other events race-record
time was clocked. The Coronation
Day filly New Look (R. Selkrig) took
the Brighton Mixed (6f.) in 1.151;
Retainer (C. Piltz) won the Kogarah
Mixed (Bf.) in 1.421; and Doughnut
(H. Darke), fallen to much lower
company than he was meeting and
beating a year or so back, won the
Moo refield Handicap (lOf.) in 2.61.
Daughters of that once first-rate
mare Cooranga turned in two good
efforts at Moorefield. Maranga (by
Marabou) was the only winning
favorite of the meeting, starting at
10 to 9 for the Rockdale Mixed
(lOf.), which she won by lengths.
More impressive, however, was
Niaranga (by Nizami) finishing second
to Auld Acquaintance in the Juvenile.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) :
Two-year-old (fillies): Rippling
Tide, 1; Niaranga, 2; Canoe, 3.
Two-year-old (colts and geldings):
Waterfront, 1; Court Session, 2;
Runiyle, 3. Ashbury Mixed (6f.):
Jannock, 1; Humming Top, 2; Irish
Footprints, 3. Burwood Mixed (9f.):
Carapooe, 1; School Star, 2; Grey
Sky, 3. Flying: Homeleigh Dick, 1;
Denali, 2; Smooth Action, 3.
November Handicap: Silver Buzz, 1;
Air Flare, 2; Laudus, 3. Weller:
Mirrigen, 1; Lone Duke, 2; Slander,
3.
* * * *
Tennis fans are in for a feast this
season with a pile of overseas
players coming on tour. The Ameri-
can lass Doris Hart, very popular
when here last season, is doing the
trip again, and with her the U.S.A.
women’s champion, Louise Brough.
Also there’s to be a women’s team
from New Zealand. Men’s matches
will be considerably enlivened by the
presence of the Czechoslovakian
Jaroslav Drobny, who has decided
that the air is a trifle sweeter this
side of the Iron Curtain. Drobny,
the New Zealanders and possibly
Doris Hart will compete in the
N.S.W. championships, first major
tournament of the season, to be
held at White City (Sydney) from
November 18-26.
* * / * *
Moving on to Durban, the Aus-
tralian cricket tourists tackled Natal
“ Timber-r !”
over the weekend, and as this went
to press the boys seemed to have
the game sewn up. Sent in to bat
first on a moistish pitch, the Aus-
tralians had a bit of a battle to knock
up 275, but all pulled their weight;
Hassett top-scored with 44, and with
the exception of Noblet, who was
5 not out, the rest reached double
figures, including sundries 12. Natal
managed only 144 in reply, partly
because of brilliant fielding by Neil
Harvey, whose dead-accurate throw-
ins bagged three wickets run out.
With one day to play, the Australian
openers Morris and Moroney were
well dug in with 215 on the board —
Morris 112 and Moroney 94.
* * * *
Facing Queensland in the first
Sheffield Shield match of the season
in Brisbane, N.S.W. batted first and
knocked up 248. Features of the
first innings were skipper Keith
Miller’s fine batting in holding the
side together with a fighting 80 and
an inspired burst of bowling by left-
hand twirler “Mick” Raymer, who
bagged four for six runs off 20
deliveries. On Saturday the Queens-
landers found themselves floundering
on a rain-affected pitch and made a
poor showing—their total, 118. The
visitors were doing slightly better
with five down for 91 at stumps on
Saturday.
* * * *
Among many other notables killed
in a tragic air smash last week,
French middleweight champion Mar-
cel Cerdan, whom Australian Dave
Sands would have found one of his
toughest obstacles in his qufst of
the world title. Cerdan was on his
way to New York to meet Jake
Lamotta in a return bout for the
world title, which Cerdan lost to
Lamotta some little time back.
♦ * * *
Star pupil of a first-rate instructor
in Hockey Bennell, Alan Barber
(8.13) turned in an exhibition of
beautiful boding in his Leichhardt
bout with Melbourne featherweight
Danny Hirsch (9st.). However, the
ref. evidently decided that Hirsch’s
strong finishing burst cancelled out
his opponent’s big lead on points in
early rounds, and it was declared a
draw. Spectators would probably
still be there expressing their opinion
of the matter had not the manage-
ment mercifully extinguished the
lights.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
sir
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
PRISMATIC
COMPASSES
For use in marking boundaries,
lining fences and taking bearings.
MARK 111 Liquid £B/10/-
( Illustrated )
MARK IX Dry.. £3/10/-
Also surveyors’ instruments,
clinometers ; hand and
dumpy levels.
m-
Tanurj*
&
AND
SONS
LTD
SYJ HE
STREET
HUNTLR
Write for
particulars.
r
o*s
mi
'W \
Bg!”
KISMET
MASTER
FOOT PUMP
RENRUT
HAND PUMP
m
KISMET
TYRE GAUGE
i
Made by William Turner (Kismet), Etd.,
Sheffield, England.
Representative in Australia:
Mr. E. G. Jones, 43-49 Hardware St., Melbourne, C.l, Victoria. G.P;O. Box 71.
KISMET
ytjtmen/ cJtaiac/si.
J/
What’s the value of a tyre gauge 7 If it isn’t
accurate, it’s worthless. If it is accurate —and made
to stay accurate—it’s worth 'every penny of its cost.
That’s the Kismet for you . . . truthful every time
. . . which means a properly balanced car, comfort-
able to ride in, safe and easy to drive.
AND what price a Foot Pump? Or a Hand Pump?
Just ask your Garage Man to let you try a Kismet.
See how easily its double-cylinder action inflates a
tyre! Then examine it closely .. . note the fine,
solid Sheffield workmanship.
You’ll never grudge the little more you pay for a
Kismet product. It comes back to you in extra years
of real service.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS"
N.Z. Beef in London.
“D.McN.”; Some observa-
tions made by the judges on
chilled-beef carcasses sent from
N.Z. to Smithfield:
“Frequently prior to the war
(1939) quite a percentage of the
hindquarters of New Zealand
chilled beef were too heavy for
the average retailer, and had to
be disposed of in cuts, realising
lower prices. The average quality
throughout was considerably
higher than those judged
formerly, and we were glad to
note only a small number showed
staggy characteristics. Most of
the carcasses were sufficiently
covered with fat externally and
a few had been a trifle too well
done, yet among them were
many with the marbling in the
flesh scarcely begun or only
partly completed and/or inclined
to be dark in flesh. There were
comparatively few carcasses with
the interior walls well covered
with fat. We are under the im-
pression that many of these cattle
had had a check (instead of being
fed to maintain steady growth
without going back), and that
fattening was concentrated to-
wards the end after a somewhat
lean period, which would contri-
bute to darkish flesh and lack of
finish in the flesh and on the
interior walls.
“A high-grade carcass should
be as follows: Carcass heavily
and uniformly fleshed through-
out. Buttocks, and thick flanks,
loins and shins well developed
and rounded, chuck shoulders
and plates thick and well
finished. Neck and shins com-
paratively short. Flesh light rose
in color, of fine texture and well
marbled. Interior walls well
covered. The cod, kidney and
aitch fats abundant but not ex-
cessive, and the carcass almost
entirely covered with smooth fat,
not wasteful at any point, firm
and creamy in color.
“Some carcasses had been
shrouded, but this was not
generally popular with retailers
in London.”
A Shearer’s View.
“Master Bevel”: The idea of
constructing a special shed for
sheep under the wool-board is
a good one, but it must hold
plenty of sheep. Sheds without
ample holding room always
have trouble getting shearers.
The loss of time in such sheds
is enormous in wet weather.
Last year I spent a fortnight at
one such shed and earned £7.
The owner of small flocks,
say, up to 6000, should make sure
that he has enough shed-room
for at least two days’ shearing.
Other sheds on the property can
be utilised in wet weather.
On the approach of shearing
owners should make certain all
their machinery is in good order,
particularly gut cores and hand-
pieces.
A source of annoyance to
shearers is having to shear sheep
rushed in from the paddock.
They are always hot and full,
and strongly object to being
handled. This is particularly so
with very big crossbreds. Shear-
ing, which entails holding a
vibrating' handpiece for eight
hours a day, is a nerve-wracking
job, a fact overlooked by many
owners. The owner is obliged
to yard all sheep four hours be-
fore shearing begins, but some
don’t do it.
There is a great shortage of
shearers. Wool prices have
risen at least 300 per cent., but
the shearing rate has risen only
about 100 per cent, in the same
time, though shearers’ costs
have increased at least 300 per
cent.
Rabbit Figures.
“H.A.W.P.”: If a pair of rab-
bits mate in July, in three months
they have five young ones, three
does and two bucks. These three
does have five more (three does
and two bucks); and every three
months it’s repeated. In nine
months the original pair have
multiplied to 10,715, breeding
only from November to May.
Say three-quarters of these are
destroyed in various ways, it
leaves 450 sheep less for the
owner, assuming that six rab-
bits eat as much as one sheep.
So that if in July, 1948, we
had only 10 rabbits enclosed on
good feed in five acres and they
increased at the same rate, a
year later there would be
196,830. At six rabbits to one
sheep they would eat the grass
of 8200 sheep. These figures
were checked carefully by the
late B. H. Edgell, Dennistoun,
Bothwell (Tas.), and he held
them to be feasible. But some-
how you can’t impress people
with these facts.
Trapping Dingoes.
“Atlanta”: C. F. Rich, of
Oakvale, Jericho (C.Q.), uses
wool to prevent dirt sliding
under the trap plate. In wet
weather the wool keeps the
ground from setting hard and
delaying the trap action.
A hessian covering is placed
over the plate and under the
“Blast these antbeds !”
jaws, with the wool arranged in
the space between jaws and
plate when the trap is placed in
its set position. The trap then
is covered with dirt in the usual
manner. Where a paper cover-
ing is used instead of hessian it
should first be wet so that it will
mould better to the jaw con-
tours, and if a dog should step
on the edge it will not give the
betraying crackle of a trap set
with dry paper.
With liquid decoys it pays to
bury a small bottle with the neck
just above ground, where the de-
coy usually is placed. A small
piece of bark can be used to
camouflage the spot, while not
preventing escape of fumes. It
should be handled with pliers.
If a dingo is trapped with a
particular decoy and it is sus-
pected that a mate was with
him then never use that decoy
again for the other dog.
Blasting Big Logs.
“Beau Forte”: A charge of
blasting powder will save much
hard work. Saw the log to re-
quired length and bore a
auger hole a little past the heart.
Insert powder and fuse and
tamper well, preferably with
clay. If the log is to be blown
in half bore down from the top ;
if it is to be broken into several
pieces a hole from the side will
do better. But for powder to
be effective the log must be
solid. Cracks and hollows allow
the charge to escape.
Red-gum logs open up best
with blasting, other timbers
come away well, but the yellow-
box is best left for maul and
wedges. No matter how solid
the s yellow-jack is it is always
likely to open at the rings under
the pressure of the charge and
when the force escapes to spring
back again.
From three to four inches of
powder in the auger-hole is
sufficient to open up a log
2ft. 6in. through by 10ft. long.
Increase the charge for a bigger
log. Gelignite does not do the
work as well as powder. It
shatters, mostly with poor re-
sults, while powder opens up
cleanly.
Small Generators.
“T.”: Generators on small
charging plants occasionally give
trouble, some of which can be
remedied by the owner. Most
sets charge at 15 to 20 amps, de-
pending on the state of the bat-
teries, and the rate of charge
gradually drops back as battery
voltage builds up, usually com-
ing to rest at a steady 8 to 10
amp. charge.
Should the rate of charge com-
mence as usually but rapidly
drop back, even to cease charg-
ing altogether, check your
brushes and commutator. First
remove the brushes from their
holders and wipe them and the
commutator with soft rag to re-
move the worst of the sludge.
Then disconnect batteries, and
with the brushes still out of the
holders, start the engine. Hold
a piece of No. 0 glass-paper on
to the surface of the commutator
whilst it revolves, moving the
paper from side to side to
prevent grooves forming. If the
paper comes away with a coating
of sludge, use a new piece until
the commutator is shining
Give the brushes a light rub
with the glass-paper; blow out
all accumulated glass-dust from
the generator, and you should
have no further trouble.
High mica or burnt segments
require lathe work, which is not
a job for the amateur.
Sorghum-poisoning.
“Mr.”: Second growth, when
short and dark-green after graz-
ing or cutting, is especially risky.
Watch for it in droughty
periods, as lack of moisture
keeps the plants small, and that’s
when their cyanide content is
greater. The cyanide content of
a short, dark-green crop is not
greatly diminished when it’s
dried and made into hay ; it is
as dangerous to stock as would
be a standing crop full of
cyanide. Sorghums 2ft. or
more high, whether first or
second growth, are low in
cyanide and relatively safe. As
a general rule sorghum should
not be cut for hay or eaten off
when under this height unless it
is of a' pale- or yellowish-green
color.
Are Wheatlands Failing?
“C.8.M.”; They are searching
questions (B. 5/10/’49), and a
brief comparison with the posi-
tion of the grower of, say, 30
years ago is interesting.
Cultivation in those days de-
pended wholly on horses ; today
we have the tractor. Then we
had horse-manure to liven up
the soil; today we have to
supply that want largely by arti-
ficial means.
In the small country town in
S.A. where I was a boy in pre-
-1914 days the local butcher,
baker, grocer, hotelkeeper and
numerous others kept horses for
haulage and transport. A
farmer kept all their stables clean
and utilised the manure to build
up his land. To-
day the same
farm is fully
mechanised, but
I’ll bet it has a
deteriorating soil
fertility.
The disappearing horse had its
part in maintaining soil
standards and yields. And what
a dollar-saver it would be!
Rye for Sand-drift.
“Myrrhee”; Of all cereals
grown in the Mallee rye stands
up to sandblast best. It
flourishes on badly-blown sand-
hills where wheat or oats will
grow only a few inches high.
Demonstrations in the Mallee
by Victorian Department of
Agriculture show that the
formation of sandhills can
be halted by planting rye
cover on the sides. The top
of the hill, purposely left un-
sown, then blows off, accumu-
lating in the cover on the sides
and reducing the height of the
hill. Later the comparatively
flat top can be sown to rye,
stabilising the whole area.
In its campaign to prevent
sand-drift Victorian Soil Con-
servation Board is supplying
seed and super, free to farmers
if they give an undertaking to


BRANDTS famous TILLEY
STORM LANTERN
III!
300
CANDLE
POWER
Here’s a safe, reliable lamp to
give you brilliant illumination
anywhere, under all conditions.
It has heat-resisting Glass, is
stormproof, and is solidly
made in Brass metal.
Economical and easy to
operate, this famous British
Kerosene Pressure-type Lamp
is moderately priced at
RETAIL
TRADE SUPPLIED
Write for particulars.
BRANDTS PTY. LTD.
APPLIANCE
SPECIALISTS
SINCE 1878
371 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’Phone: M 4651.
RABBIT
No
unpleasant
fumes.
i m
FUMIGANT
No
plant
required.
CYANIDE CRYSTALS
2 lb. tins at 9/- each (100 holes) Case 12 x 2 lb. 103/-
8 lb. tins at 32/- each (400 holes) .... Case 12 x 8 lb. 370/-
(Post Free) (F.O.R. Sydney)
No C.O.D. Please add Exchange to Cheques.
NAME
(PRINT)
P.S.
ADDRESS
FLAK INDUSTRIES, 23 Addison Rd., Marrickville, N.S.W.
IF VOU
WERE
THERE
Vbuwelf..
v '
;:|j* <- Jn* ; . : ■> ' •■'■f>'\ :£ r >
... your wool could receive
no greater attention, for A.M.L.&F. experts are at work
in your interests at every stage—valuing, lotting and
displaying your wool to the best advantage. You are
always assured of the best possible price when the
“A.M.L.&F. man” sells
your wool I
86 Yaor» in tha Servlca of tha Mon on iha Lond
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863.
AMLF
m
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
AND AX MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches— N.S.W,: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra, Scone,
Moree, Qarah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Charleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, ' Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents: McPhie & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
FOR AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for (a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence
at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable
at the discretion of the Trustees,
or (b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £BO per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the
Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are
insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must
satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney,
or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later
than the 9th January, 1950, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College and not later than the 6th February,
1950, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further
particulars may be obtained from; —
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The Lovely
Lamp!
Peach Lamp Shade
Polished Brass & Cream Metal Parts
TILLEY TABLE LAMPS
ARE AVAILABLE IN TWO SIZES
T.L. 106 “THE QUEEN” 2IJ" High
T.L. 136 “THE PRINCESS” I6J" High
TILLEY.,.. LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
The Lamps with
the Happy Mantle!
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturers * Representatives
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl
keep stock off the rye during the
first season and not burn or cut
the stubble. Last year, and in
the three previous years, the
board distributed enough seed
and super, to treat between 3000
and 4000 acres.
Zinc-poisoning in Pigs.
“A.M.M.”; It’s likely to occur
where new pipelines have been
installed. The zinc coating on
the inside of the pipe is eaten
away by the lactic-acid in the
skim-milk or whey. Only a small
amount of zinc is sufficient to
cause poisoning and death.
After a season or two all the
zinc will have been washed off
the inside of the pipes and there
will be no further danger.
Lameness is the first symptom,
and will quickly increase until
the pig is unable to stand. The
pig will go off its food, and death
may follow fairly rapidly. A
post-mortem will show a soften-
ing of the bones at the extremi-
ties, especially in the foreleg.
The liver and kidneys will prob-
ably be affected.
Early treatment may be effec-
tive. Milk which has not passed
through the pipe should be given,
together with a liberal helping
of grain. A little molasses fed
with the skim-milk or whey has
brought good results.
The new pipeline should be
cleaned out once a week with a
solution of 21b. to 41b. of mol-
asses to 4gal. of water. This
should be left in the pipe until
the next lot of milk is ready to
go through, and should then be
discarded and put beyond reach
of the pigs.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”; In a report on
minimisation of erosion in the
Vic. Mallee the regional com-
mittee for that area recommends
the following: No burning of
stubble; wet workings only if
possible ; improved ridging im-
plements for spring workings;
cover crops ; prompt disposal of
sheep when winter and spring
rains fail; securely fencing and
treating badly-eroded areas until
reclaimed (for this steel posts and
cyclone fencing must be avail-
able) ; placing of rye corn-
growing on a sound business
basis.
“C.A.A.”: To protect a saw-
blade from rust and to keep it
in perfect working condition, rub
with an oily rag after use. If
blade has become slightly rusty
through exposure to dampness,
rub blade first with a fine emery-
cloth and then apply the oil.
“M.”; If poultry are cor-
rectly fed and well managed they
should grow rapidly from hatch-
ing to 12 weeks old; any that
don’t keep pace with the others
should be culled and marketed.
The best time to obtain uni-
formity and form a well-
balanced flock is during the rear-
ing season. Every backward
bird wastes food, and when it
begins to lay it’ll depress the
average production of the entire
flock.
“C.A.L.”: If, during a drought
or dry spell, farm-horses are
chaff-fed, mix ground coffee in
their feed once a week. This
will assist in preventing sanding,
a common complaint in dry
times.
“Rooster”: A good shade-
tree for the poultry-yard is the
boobialla. In years they
attain a height of sft. and as
many feet in diameter. They are
covered with dense foliage all
the year, are very hardy, and
can be pruned to any desired
shape. Place a guard round
them during the first year to
protect them from the birds.
After that they can hold their
own.
“Pongo”: A splendid quick-
drying waterproof cement can
be made by mixing Portland
cement and plaster of Paris in
equal parts. Use only sufficient
water to make mixture workable.
It dries white and very smooth.
“Billjim”: Tests by S.A.
Department of Agriculture have
proved that use of D.D.T. to
combat codlin-moth will cause
increased trouble with red-spider
mites and light-brown apple-
moth and occasionally apple
woolly aphid. The depart-
ment recommends regular use
of D.D.T. one season to
reduce codlin and reversion to
lead arsenate spray until a build-
up of codlin occurs ; close cover
with D.D.T. during first flight so
there is little or no survival to
the late season, and Use of one
or two D.D.T. sprays only during
the main flight periods.
“Sundowner”: To overcome
damage to gates which are barely
wide enough to allow the passage
of the widest implements, use a
floating post. Remove one of
the gateposts and sink an Sin.
concrete drainpipe to ground-
level in its place. Drop into
this a post and swing a light gate
between it and the remaining
post. Then put in a new gate-
post about sft. 6in. beyond the
floating post and swing a gate
between them. If necessary the
d o adn S post can be luted out
when a wide machine has to
come through,
“Farback”; Milk- or jam-tins
cut out top and bottom will
shelter young plants from dry-
ing winds, as well as protect
them from birds and animals. In
hot climates keep a couple of
dozen ready for use on a windy
day. Young tomato plants
especially thrive when given
proper shelter in their first few
weeks.
“Big Billy”: When applying
fertilisers in the home or market
garden, scatter those readily
soluble in limited amounts and
rake in; rain will wash them
through the soil. So-called in-
soluble fertilisers are only slowly
soluble and are best worked
well in so that the soil constitu-
ents can immediately begin to
act on them. They are usually
best applied to plants which
occupy the ground for a long
Evenness of spreading is
very important and can be
greatly facilitated by mixing with
dry soil, sand or fine ashes,
Adequate moisture is essential
for dissolving the plant food and
enabling the plant to absorb it.
0 n loose, open, sandy soils
where rainfalUs high, insoluble
f ertilisers are pre f er able so that
loss through heavy rain is mini-
b y
“ *. „ „„
Sanna”: When dismantling
an old fence remember that all
the posts, though perhaps some-
what rotten can be utilised as
firewood . x h ey will come out
eas ji y dur j n g a we t spell, where
therell also be time to take out
:> r „ tan t e<? tbat m :„ bt
or saw
o L


-INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £10,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines).
C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
Full Length
Station Shirts
Well cut and finished with correctly
fitting sleeves, these shirts are neat
enough for a trip to town, yet strong
enough for heavy station work. Made
of cotton shirting woven in Scotland,
they have a smooth finish, fast colours,
and are sanforised shrunk. They have
two full size pockets with button
flaps, and button cuffs.
In blue , fawn , grey and white , sizes 14|"
to 17 collars. .. .. .. 22/-.
w
WOODROW HATS
Designed for the countryman, these hats
have 3" brims. If" bands, a cut edge and
are unlined. Offered in light grey, dark
grey and dark fawn .. ..57/6
With 2|" brims and l\’ bands, in light
grey, dark grey, dark steel and dark
fawn .. .. •. .. 55/-
KHAKI CORD
WORKING TROUSERS
Strong, hard-wearing trousers of good
make and style and roomy cut. Side,
hip and fob pockets, hip straps and
belt loops. 36/9
%
ENGLISH SPORTSWEAR
SPORTS COAT
Tailored in England from serviceable
Irish Donegal Tweed this coat is
smartly cut and finished for use either
in town or country. Available in grey or
fawn .. .. .. £9/9/6
ENGLISH SPORTS
TROUSERS
Correct style and roomy comfort make
these the ideal trousers for summer wear.
Made of grey or light fawn all wool
worsted, they are finished with side and
two hip pockets, belt loops and hip
straps .. .. .. .. N 93/6
Also Grey Worsted 56/6, 60/-, 78/-
Fawn Worsted .. 60/-, 78/-
“DAKS” ENGLISH
SPORTS TROUSERS
Worsteds .. .. £6/6/6
Gabardines .. .. £7/4/6
COOL WALKING SHORTS
Stylishly cut and comfortably roomy
these walking shorts are made of all
wool grey worsted. Side and hip pockets,
fob pocket with flaps.
Extension band and zipp fastening front
48/6
PEAPES Pty. Ltd.
NEXT WYNYARD STATION, 285 GEORGE STREET
(Opposite Hunter Street, Sydney)
WA
m
m
H I®
$1
6®.
By Appointment'
Cio DiitilUn
«e H.M. King George VI
fftnqueray. Cordon &Co lA
ordon's
Stands Sup'c&mJV
radishes and wind-puffed ghosts
in underwear struggling on the
clothesline.
“She’ll be out soon,” Dan
said, “Keep your eyes skinned
for The Skunk.”
They were tossed like giant
birds in the secret, smelling
shade of the camphor-laurels.
And just as Michael was think-
ing that she had slipped Dan up
Alice came out on to the back
lawn.
She came out through an arch-
way under the gleaming laurels,
a dark, absorbed, frail-pretty
girl in a school tunic. She was
wheeling a pram.
She wheeled the pram to a
bench under the laurels, smiling
fleeting smiles and wagging her
head and her finger as she
wheeled. Oh, and her hands flew
up, flew down to tuck up some-
thing in the pram ; to smooth,
now scolding, the long pink
smock; to take up, while she
kissed, the sleeping doll. Her
voice was blown by the wind
into the ranks of the sweet-
peas.
Michael looked at Dan and
saw that he Was frowning.
“Usually,” Dan whispered,
“she skips.”
The two boys crept down out
of the leaves. They ran, doubled,
through the swaying wood and
did not stop until they reached
the asphalt playing-field. There,
panting, Michael saw that Dan
was smiling his aloof smile. So
he smiled, too, in the same way.
For some reason after that
Michael felt more at ease with
Wiggins. And his cricket
improved. He was almost en-
tirely happy but for the thought
of La Plume.
ON Sundays when he and
Dan and Chingie were mak-
ing down towards the orchards
he would glance over across the
street, and there would be La
Plume, lost in dreaming dis-
tances, under the ornamental
tree. Surely he did not expect
Michael to join him. i
It annoyed Michael, remind-
ing him of past anxiety and of
something else.
And sometimes when they
were fishing in the black water-
hole down the gully he had a
feeling that they were being
watched as he and Dan had
watched Alice Kershaw in her
back garden that windy .day.
He began to hate La Plume.
One Sunday the leaves were
falling from the street trees, and
in the sunlight there was still the
stone-coldness of church. Dan
was saying “Bet I can catch
more yabbies than you can.”
Michael looked across the street
and saw La Plume under the
bare tree measuring the horizon
with his nail on the side of a
pencil.
“Parlez-vous frangais?” he
called. “The mouse who licked
his mother’s foot!”
He picked up a pointed-stone
and sent it high and sizzling
across the street. The stone hjt
the picket fence. La Plume did
not move.
. Michael was bending for an-
other stone when Chingie said
“You used to knock around
with that mad kid once, didn’t
you?”
Michael bent, blushing,
searching the ground for some
explanation and not finding one.
But two images rose in his mind:
Chingie slapping the pockets of
his short pants; Dan frowning
among the camphor-laurels. He
stood up in the gutter of the
worn road and said “He’s not a
bad kid, really. And he can
speak French.”
In the new warmth of the sun-
light an unreasonable doubt
occurred to him. He wondered,
if he asked him to, whether La
Plume would join them.
CUTTHROAT
By “COL M.”
| N slamming the woodshed-
* door on the tongs and coal-
scuttle, Mr. Freeman, “Milk-
bar and Delicatessen,” had
recognised the summer.
Theoretically, in a season of
fine, hot week-ends he could cut
out enough to hibernate in com-
fort through the desert months
and still have money in the bank.
The city now did its work in five
days, and rested for two, on
beaches such as faced by Mr.
Freeman’s shop.
Then again, paralysing rent
made any summer like the last
one, a mere wet and muggy
leftover from winter, a calamity.
It had been so bad that after a
stretch of five drizzling week-
ends Mr. Freeman had called on
Mr. Johnson, also “milk-bar and
delicatessen,” and they had
talked together without a trace
of strain; later, at “The
Breakers,” they had drowned
their mutual disaster in draughts
of old-and-new, and even spoke
of a merger next summer.
But now it was next summer.
Mr. Freeman and Mr. Johnson
had not been noticing each other
for a month, and tomorrow was
the holiday.
Mr. Freeman went through
into his shop. A moth spun
madly along the fluorescent-light
tube. Johnson and his old light-
bulbs. Little things like lighting
made the extra customers. No
mind for business, Johnson. Up-
stairs now. Bed. Big day to-
morrow.
In pyjamas Mr. Freeman
stood for a while at his window
with his hands resting on the sill
and he looked up at the night.
Everywhere grains of sugar
glistened on the black, but the
moon had a little ring round it.
Mr. Freeman began to worry.
Doc Mailey says “Watch that
ulcer,” but in his line he is sure
of his custom. If it rains to-
morrow my money could go
down the drain with it. It’s got
to be fine, but then it mightn’t
be. Johnson awake? Not him
—all his lights out. Never run
a business properly, that man.
Golf two afternoons a week.
Doesn’t seem to realise it’s a
battle, business. A battle. All
right. To blazes with Mailey
and his ulcers. If it’s fine I’m
carried. Freezer full of ice-
cream, drinks. But if it rains?
Who was that blpke? Merry
Maid Pastry ? Maid Mary ! His
card’s stuck up by the phone.
Fifty dozen each of pies and
sausage-rolls. Let it be fine till
eleven. Let ’em come. Then let
it rain like hell.
Later, in a suburb a long way
away, Mr. Bryley, representing
Maid Mary Pastrycooks, picked
up his phone and listened to Mr.
Freeman.
“It is a big order, Mr. Free-
man, I know,” he replied. “But
they mightn’t be open at the
bakery now, and it’d be too
late tomorrow. Wait on, though.
They might be working a night
shift. I’ll ring you back if there’s
nothing doing. Otherwise you’ll
get them first thing in the morn-
ing. Thank you, Mr. Freeman.”
The holiday. Heads in
scarves, tails in slacks, bundles
in towels. Every fifteen minutes
another, thicker stream of them
would fan out from the terminus.
To the gulls they were ants,
thick in the streets, spreading
over the beach, spreading into
the sea.
At four minutes past eleven
the first drops fell, big ones, and
the sea lost its swimmers, and
the beach its colors. And they
all seemed to cram in to Mr.
Freeman’s, cold and hungry.
When the last crumbling pie
went, so did business, but Mr.
Freeman was content. He went
out front. It was pelting now,
and he smiled as he turned to
look at Johnson’s down the
street, and then he felt the wind
tear through him. People were
fighting their way out of John-
son’s with pies in their hands,
against people fighting their way
in with money, or so it seemed
to Mr. Freeman.
He went inside and sat down
in the empty shop and poured
himself a cup of coffee. That
ulcer. The dpc.’s right. Going
too hard at it. Silly to let little
things worry me. Did well on
the day. But Johnson- —how did
he know ? Blasted golf. Never
takes an interest in his business.
Well, he beat me today.
Mr. Freeman stood up and
stretched himself and was going
out to look for hope in the sky
when his phone rang.
“Hullo?”
“Mr. Freeman? Oh, it’s
Bryley here—‘Maid Mary’—just
wanted to know if your order
was delivered all right and if
you’d like a repeat next week-
end.”
“It was all right—l’ll let you
know later in the week. Tell me,
do you know if a Mr. Johnson
near here deals with you
people?”
“As a matter of fact he does.”
“Well, could you tell me when
he placed his order for today?
He and I have a —a little joke
about it. All in fun. Of course,
if it’s confidential don’t”
“Oh, no. It’s quite all right.
As a matter of fact Mr. John-
son was telling me about the
joke himself when he rang last
week. He said whenever you
ordered anything to send him
the same, doubled. Why, what’s
so funny, Mr. Freeman?”
“I wasn’t laughing, Mr. Bry-
ley.”


THE HYGEIA
DISSOL VENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1937.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona tides of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTHIBUTORS:
NJ3,W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney,
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia; R. P. Mclnerney &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend ol
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILLTOP. A blend ot
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to; Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.P. Orders.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
application to the Bursar.
G. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Se.,
Headmaster.
No. o in SHELL’S “ Australian Artists ” Series
X
D3JI=WC
THE REFUELLING OF A FLYING DOCTOR PLANE
i"" , .... ■ ' ■ ■* ■ >' , ‘
with a scene interpreted bj Douglas Annand
Out beyond Broken Hill, in the hot
sand deserts where the Flying Doctor
service has a base, Douglas Annand,
well-known Australian artist, found
an interesting aspect of Shell service.
Here, where aviation gasoline, motor
spirit, and lubricating oils are the very
life blood of the scattered communities,
Douglas Annand found Shell pro-
viding an efficient service to all who
needed it.
Shell has never limited its activities
to the metropolitan areas where
distribution is easy. Shell pioneering
has helped open up the continent by
improving communications and thus
reducing isolation. Shell will con-
tinue to lead in providing an adequate
petroleum service for those “outback.”
The above scene in full colour by Douglas
Annand will be published as occasion
offers by Shell.
You can be sure of
SHELL
SHELL
The Shell Company of Australia Ltd. (Inc. in Great
G 4978
SERVICE DFPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy Badger and the Boarders and
Stories by “Kodak” by Ernest
O'Ferrall (“Kodak”).—4713.
Collector would like correspond
others interested in clocks, swords
and Australian native weapons.—
4714.
Wanted to buy copy of That Fool
Sharpe by Sharpe.—4715.
To buy copy of The Lore of the
Lyre Bird by Ambrose Pratt. —4711.
To buy Vol. 2 only of The Aus-
tralian Encyclopaedia. —4712.
Information Sought.
What is the difference of the mean-
ing in diplomatic circles and the
ordinary meaning of the word
“officious” ?
A diplomatist means by “an
officious communication” much what
a lawyer means by one without
prejudice; it is to bind no one, and
unless acted upon by common con-
sent is to be as if it had not been.
The word is used as the antithesis
of “official,” and the notion of
meddlesomeness attaching to it in
ordinary use is entirely absent.
* * * *
Details about Christmas Island, in
the Indian Ocean ?
It is of irregular shape, about 11
miles long (at the longest point), and
about 4i miles wide (at the narrowest
point), and has an area of about 60
square miles. The climate is healthy.
It was annexed in 1888 and is now
incorporated with the Settlement of
Singapore. It is administered by a
district officer of the Malayan Civil
Service. The employed inhabitants
(mainly Chinese and Malays) are em-
ployed by the Christmas Island Phos-
phate Cos., which works the large
natural deposits of phosphate of lime
to which the island owes its im-
portance. Population is about 900.
* * * *
What apparatus can be used to
simulate the following sound-effects
in a stage performance: (1) Thunder,
(2) wind, (3) hoof-beats and (4) rain?
(1) A sheet of tin that is shaken or
beaten with a padded mallet. (2) A
slatted drum mounted on bearings is
rotated toward the free end of a
cloth which is fastened to a
mounting-frame, or umbrella ribs are
fastened to the shaft of a variable-
speed electric motor. (3) Coconut-
shells are struck together or against a
flat surface. (4) A shallow metal
plate containing dried peas or rice is
rotated.
* * * *
How did the word “barricade”
originate ?
The term rose in France, in 1588,
when Henri de Guise returned to
Paris in defiance of the King’s order.
The King sent for his Swiss Guards,
and the Parisians tore up the pave-
ments, threw chains across the streets,
and piled up barrels filled with earth
and stones, behind which they shot
down the Swiss as they passed
through the streets. The French for
barrel is “barrique,” and to barricade
is, literally, to stop up the streets
with these barrels.
* * * *
Hints on the growing and culture
of kentia-palm seeds?
Best results are obtained while the
fruit is still fresh and before the
germ has dried. The seeds shipped
from Lord Howe Island during Feb-
ruary and March are preferred; the
result is a much quicker germination.
The seed should be sown immediately
on arrival. Very fresh seed will
germinate in three months, but usually
it takes about nine months for
the young plants to appear. The
correct temperature is 70 to 80 deg.
Fahr. In colder areas, a warm, green-
house would be necessary, but under
Australian conditions a sheltered
bush-house is suitable. The sides of
the bush-house should be boarded
sft. in height to obviate ground
draft. The beds should be boarded
with 4in. battens and the soil should
be of a light, sandy nature with the
addition of leaf-mould. The seed is
sown very thickly in the beds and
covered with 2in. of soil, and then
watered liberally. The germination,
under usual conditions, seldom ex-
ceeds 50 to 60 p.c., and extends over
a period, some plants appearing long
before others. _ The young plants
should be ready for potting into 3in.
pots about three to four months
after germination. The bush-house in
which the seed is sown should be
kept reasonably shady, but not too
dense. Filtered sunlight is necessary,
and the beds should never be allowed
to dry out.
* * * *
Details of recruiting marches in
N. S. Wales during World War 1.
Names of marches, starting-points
and terminals, distances, and num-
bers at start and on arrival?
Coo-ees: Gilgandra-Sydney, 320
miles, 30 at start, 263 on arrival.
Waratahs: Nowra-Sydney, 100 miles,
50 and 120. Kangaroos: Wagga-
Sydney, 350 miles, 88 and 230.
Wallabies: Narrabri-Newcastle, 300
miles, 38 and 173. Men from Snowy
River: Delegate-Goulburn, 220 miles,
30 and 144. Kurrajongs; Inverell-
Narrabri, 160 miles, 114 and 150.
Kookaburras: Tooraweenah-Bathurst,
210 miles, 23 and 100. North Coast
Boomerangs: Grafton-Maitiand, 320
miles, 27 and 240.
* * * *
How did the political terms “left,”
“right” and “centre” originate?
In the Amphitheatre, where the
French National Assembly of 1789
convened, the nobles still commanded
sufficient respect to be given places
of honor to the right of the president.
The radicals moved naturally as far
away from them, to the left, as they
could. The moderates found them-
selves squeezed in between, in the
centre. Hence the political connota-
tions of these terms. Carlyle, in.
The French Revolution (1847), was
one of the first to speak in English
of “the extreme Left.” Derivatives
like leftist, leftism, etc., did not- come
into general use Until after the
Russian Revolution.
* * * *
What was Babington’s conspiracy ?
Induced by John Ballard, a priest,
Anthony Babington (1561-86) or-
ganised a conspiracy in 1586 to
murder Queen Elizabeth, lead a
Catholic uprising, and release Mary
Queen of Scots, whose page he had
been, from prison. The plot was dis-
covered by Walsingham’s spies, and
Babington and a dozen others were
executed.
. Brief Answers.
D.R.: The record attendance for
a football match in Great Britain is
149,547 at the Association Inter-
national between Scotland and Eng-
land at Hampden. Park, Glasgow, on
April 17, 1937....J.G.: The Indian
Mates sent a representative cricket
team to Australia for the 1947-48
season. In all matches the visitors
won 5, lost 7, drew 8. They lost
four Test matches and drew the other,
....A.McG.: Write Book Collectors’
Society of Australia, Box 905, G.P.0.,
Sydney L.8.W.: Cockatoo Island
is the largest of the islands within
the waters of Port Jackson. It is
situated about 2\ miles westerly from
the Sydney Harbor Bridge and about
midway between Long Cove and Lane
Cove estuaries. Its average height above
sea-level is assumed to be about 50ft.
and its area about 32 acres
HJ. 8.: Write Biber’s Furs, Ltd., 388
George-street, or Neeson’s Furs, Ltd.,
164 Pitt-street both Sydney
E.H.M.: Write Secretary, Taronga
Zoological Park, Mosman . (N.S.W.),
and Director, Brisbane Botanical
Gardens, Brisbane H.J.H.: No
hawker’s licence required J.M.W.:
The Incorporated Law Institute of
N.S.W., 3 Casflereagh-street, Sydney.
H.C.: The tenant is entitled to the
benefit of the N.S.W. Landlord and
Tenant (Amendment) Act, 1948-49....
M.F.; Apply to local Clerk of Petty
Sessions for necessary licences
H.J.S.: Rates of interest were con-
trolled during the war years by the
Commonwealth, but are not the subject
of State legislation. Harsh and
unconscionable dealings by money-
lenders are dealt with by the Money-
lenders Act (Q.) M. 8.: The
American gold dollar mentioned is
one of the ordinary issue which was
in use until 1889, when the issue
was discontinued. American coin-
dealers’ catalogues price coins of
this date (1853) at $6.50. ’ That is
the price at which they are sold.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor.
5.D.8.: Might do if one-half
were thrown out and some life put
into the other half H.C.S.:
Wronged husband plays mild prac-
tical jokes on Lothario. Have heard
of more exciting revenges
G.McG.: Same old spring morning,
same old dreams, same old basket.
Bellerive: The last word in
realism;
ŵ
lunching dog chased of! the premises.
By the way, where can you get
counter-lunch these days? P.A.:
“This story is quite true.” We would
prefer it to be interesting R.P.:
The absence of punctuation heightens
the charm, if it does make the mean-
ing somewhat obscure C.N.:
Anaemic verse and ladylike prose,
wallowing in platitudes W.P.:
Lines are all right if measured with
a rule, but the accents fall anyhow
and the poem canters like a camel.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
J.McP.: Drawings are almost a
record in hopelessness B.B.; Joke
not new, was never worth much, also
poorly illustrated J.M.: Heaven
forbid that any encouragement from
us should lure you from your present
job to the full-time pursuit of art....
G. 0.: Declined without any reserva-
tion or doubt whatever. Declined, in
fact, enthusiastically 8.W.C.: Ap-
palling illustration, inexplicable joke.
... .E.L.; What you sent isn’t a joke;
it’s a landmark in ancient history....
J.K.; Let’s hear from the ten-year-
old artist when he has doubled his
age....8.M.: You don’t strike oil
with any of them R.W.N.; A
chestnut with old-age-pensioner
weevils in it H.McC.: Rude re-
mark of the bottle-oh to his wife is
not redeemed by your illustration of
the incident P.A.: Where is the
humor in one inebriate telling an-
other that he doesn’t like crayfish?
. ...F.J.: Faint pencil-drawing with
a tipsy curate in it coldly rejected.
A VISIT TO A SUBURBAN RUBBISH-TIP.
Dumped litter, specked fruit.
Dead dogs and oats.
Broken bottles, jam tins,
And battered hats.
Worn, leaky pots and
Mixed garbage lay
Among the heaps at
The tip display.
Supplies from the bins
Strewn here and there.
r Twas afternoon and
Very sultry the air.
The wafting odor
Which did reach my nose
Was not as sweet
As a garden rose.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4*d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Decentralisation
I don’t think that new States will bring
about decentralisation. They may de-
velop areas now neglected because of
their remoteness from the seat of govern-
ment, and so spread population, but that
would not solve our centralisation
problem—the concentration of 50 to 60
per cent, of the population of our main-
land States in the State capitals—but
merely disperse it and perhaps increase it.
Support for that view comes from the
facts (1) that our smallest State, Victoria,
has the greatest proportion of its popu-
lation in its capital (59.7 per cent.), closely
followed by S.A. (59.21 per cent.); (2)
that the main support for the new-State
movement appears to come from those
towns which hope to be the future
capitals ; and (3) that centralisation, as it
exists in Australia, is found in no other
country whether it consists of small, large
or no States.
The U.S.A., which physiographically
has much in common with Australia, has
a high degree of decentralisation of both
industry and population, but it is doubtful
if its smaller States account for that.
Their State capitals are mostly small, non-
industrial and at times unimportant towns;
and only one, Boston, is an overseas
port, and, significantly, that is the largest
State capital. The States there have very
limited control over railways and overseas
ports. The banking system is one 1 of in-
dependent local banks.
In Australia each capital not only con-
tains over half its State’s population, but
is the main, if not only, commercial and
industrial centre and the chief port in
the State. The States not only control but
own the railways, and generally the main
ports. The banking system, which is
generally considered far superior to that
of U.S.A., consists of branch banks with
head offices in the State capitals ; its weak
point is that the capitals naturally receive
preferential treatment.
In the U.S.A. railways, being privately
owned, seek profits, so naturally frame
their policy to spread industry and popu-
lation in order to obtain the maximum
amount of traffic, particularly high-grade
traffic. It is no idle boast of railway
authorities there that they can, by rating
policy, establish thriving industries in a
desert with profit to the railways.
In Australia railways are owned by
Governments, which value votes far more
than profits, so policy has been framed to
benefit the State capitals, which were in-
variably the first places of settlement and
chief centres of population.
Queensland (though the population of
Brisbane, because of its unfavorable situ-
ation for a capital; hides the fact) has
been the chief offender in that respect.
Under its decentralisation policy conces-
sions of 30 per cent, to 80 per cent, are
given on transport charges for raw
materials and primary produce when con-
signed to ports, particularly Brisbane,
ostensibly to assist farmers by encourag-
ing exports. While, however, these
concessions apply to all the require-
ments of the port cities, they do not
apply to all direct exports. The
natural result of this policy is that all the
distributing and processing trades have
to be conducted in Brisbane or, to a
lesser degree, other ports.
The population of a port is of little
value, and in Australia a heavy liability,
to railways, for it initiates little except
low-grade, one-way traffic, since its high-
grade requirements are made locally or
imported. Excessive port population is
therefore the main cause of our railway
losses, which have to be met by high
charges on high-grade traffic, which the
non-port population mainly initiates.
Further, these high charges make railways
very vulnerable to road competition.
Reduced charges on goods consumed in
the port cities do not benefit the pro-
ducer ; they merely reduce prices there
and necessitate the producer paying
heavier transport costs on his require-
ments.
Queensland, on one occasion, reversed
its policy and gave concessions to estab-
lish an inland industry. The result was so
important that it should be widely known.
To establish the Mount Isa mine, rates
so low that they were regarded, officially
and unofficially, as highly unprofitable
were granted on its fuel requirements
and products. This traffic was carried
over the greater part of the great northern
railway, so it is easy to see its effect by
comparing the earnings of that railway
■with those of the southern and central
divisions, before and after the mine com-
menced operations.
Percentage of av. net earnings
—to capital (open lines). —
Southern Central G. Northern
Division. Division. Railway.
1924-79 (5
years). Be-
fore line was
opened ..2.89%. 2.296% 1.366%
19 2 9-’3 1 (2
years). After
line was
.opened . 2.503% 2.269% 2.515%
1931-37 (6
years). After
mine com-
ma e n c e d
operations.. 4.366% 5.132% 6.087%
Thus those “highly unprofitable” rates
raised the G.N. railway from the least
profitable of the three systems by 0.93 per
cent, to the most profitable by 0.955 per
cent., despite the fact that the mine gave
much exceptionally highly rated traffic
to.the other two divisions.
That was, obviously, caused by the fact
that overhead costs were reduced by the
large volume of well-balanced low-grade
traffic, and that the mine and population
at Mount Isa provided much high-rated
traffic. Had the mine provided more
employment the results would, obviously,
have been even better.
There we have true decentralisation. A
considerable population established in-
land at no cost, but rather with consider-
able profit, to the railways, the State and
even the port. If this policy were more
widely adopted we would, in time, attain
real decentralisation and profitable rail-
ways, which could reduce charges on
higher-rated goods and thus further stimu-
late decentralisation and at thei same time
better meet road competition.—C. B. D.
(Q.).
Municipal Problems
“W.W.’s” complaint (B. 28/9/’49)
about maladministration by officers
and little work done by laborers
on municipal council jobs is not
a new one. Thirty years ago, when men
were supposed to be real toilers as com-
pared with those of today, 1 heard the
same squeal.
Apart from soaring costs and the 40-
hour week, councils have many other
things to contend with which they did not
have to worry them in years gone by.
In the horse-and-buggy days roads were
used almost entirely by the ratepayers
within a shire, who, by paying rates, built
and maintained roads for themselves. But
in these days, with fast-moving motor-
vehicles and heavy road transports, those
roads are being torn up and ruined by
through traffic from which a municipality
does not derive one penny in rates. That
“Why, hello. Bill! Get home all right last night ?”
ls why ratepayers are always calling out
about bad roads and why every
municipality is demanding from the Gov-
ernment a better cut out of the petrol
tax —but with little results.
Years ago, before this problem con-
fronted country municipalities, \ I re-
member a councillor —a pretty good busi-
nessman, too —saying that shire finance
provided no difficult problems. His
contention was that the council had only
to have an accurate estimate of costs of
works and strike a rate to cover, and it
must come out square. In other words, if
ratepayers wanted work done they would
have to pay for it. His idea worked
well in his shire. Roads were kept in
good repair and the overdraft was wiped
off. He was reckoned a good councillor.
But with ratepayers so heavily taxed
he would not be popular these times if
he bumped rates up to build and maintain
roads to be used and torn up by foreign
traffic. And, besides, it is doubtful if a
rate could be struck adequate for the vast
amount of work required in nearly
every country municipality, because the
rate, as well as an overdraft, is limited
by the Local Government Act.
Besides controlling finance to a large
extent, the same Act also determines what
administrative staff has to be employed
by a municipality, and so the councillors’
hands are tied.. Many a man enters a
council with the good intentions of prun-
ing costs, only to find that it cannot be
done.
Governments are continually throwing
additional vyork on to municipalities and
give little monetary aid. And when it
comes to administrative costs, it is well to
remember that councillors, unlike the
well-paid politicians, perform their duties
for nothing —not even the cost of aspirins
to cure the many headaches that go with
any conscientious councillor’s job these
days.— Beau Forte (Vic.).
Secret Ballot
In arguing that, since there is tacit
acknowledgment of the legal status of
strikes, there might as well be an open
acknowledgment through the making of
secret ballots on strikes a “part of
our industrial machinery,” G.A.B.
(B. 14/9/’49) is advocating a backward
step. A number of people seem to think
it would be expedient to do this.
Expediency is like buying an immediate
advantage on t.p. —what you get is usually
worn out long before you have finished
paying for it.
The purpose of civil law is to abolish
the use of private force in settling griev-
ances, The transmutation of lawless force
into civil action is not accomplished in the
twinkling of an eye ; and weakness in the
maintenance of the law, especially in the
always-disliked first stages, retards the
process.
The real answer to organised lawless-
ness in the form of strikes is voluntary
unionism. Then the onus would be where
it should be in a matter of obedience to
the law —on the individual. He would
be able to dissociate himself from action
of which he disapproved. —D. W.
(N.S.W.).
White Australia
Despite his critics (B. 5/10/’49)
“Barwon” is right. If we get 1000 colored
aliens a year, a few years will see Aus-
tralia with a colored and half-caste
problem; we’ll have race riots and other
evils, and white people will probably
demand “Jim Crow” cars and separate
schools for colored and half-caste
children. We are not very different from
the white people of America.
If the White Australia policy means a
white population for Australia, why not
say so? Many years ago The Bulletin
published a cartoon showing Australia
building a brick wall; outside were a
Chinaman and a Hindu with bundles;
below, “Neither you nor your goods.”
No doubt the “spruikers” for Asiatics in
Sydney found that cartoon highly offen-
sive, but an intelligent Chinaman or
Hindu would probably regard it as
commonsense.
The colored peoples, who occupy by
far the larger part of the earth, are lower
in the scale of evolution. Two thousand
five hundred years of art, science, litera-
ture and advance in the art of govern-
ment —as well as the fact that a handful
of whites, while they retained their racial
virtues, were able to hold an immense
colored population in obedience and
respect—proves that. Large areas of Asia
are unoccupied, but the Asiatic is not a
pioneer—he wants to go where the
pioneering has been done, and where
there is a stable white Government to
protect him and any property which he
may acquire.
The entry of colored races to Aus-
tralia, with the accompanying mis-
cegenation, would degrade the white
without elevating the black or yellow.
Having fought a bloody war to keep
Asiatics out of Australia, why commit
racial suicide by letting them in?
The campaign carried on by Asiatics
and their Press and pulpit-backers
is nothing new ; we had a like war against
the white man in the early days of the
Commonwealth —remember the agitation
against sending home the Kanakas, the
Petriana myth and the Poon Gooey case?
-AValnick (N.S.W.).
The Lonely Road
A few months ago an exhibition was
staged in Melbourne to get the public be-
hind efforts being made to induce the
State Government to start building homes
for the aged. Attendances reflected a
general lack of interest. Many people
are fully occupied with their own housing
problems, but a far greater number are
not, and surely all can spare a thought
for those who are nearing the end of the
Contributor's of political comment
during the forthcoming election
campaign should indicate that they
are prepared to have their names
and addresses published to comply
with the provisions of the Com-
monwealth Electoral Act.
road and finding the going hard. They
brought up their families without the
assistance of child endowment and
similar Government aids, and they
deserve at least a quiet corner where they
can be free and independent.
The Victorian Slum Inquiry Board of
1936 drew attention to the appalling con-
ditions under which old people in Mel-
bourne were then living. At that time
building materials were not in short
supply, but the Victorian Government
did nothing and has done nothing since.
In the Old Colonists’ Homes, three
miles from the heart of the city, there is
a splendid example of what can be done
when there is the will to do it. This
project was started 80 years ago by private
enterprise, and beyond a grant of land
hasn’t received a penn’orth of Govern-
ment assistance.
As things are, present-day housing of
the aged in Victoria isn’t much better
than that the old folk of England had to
endure in the days of the workhouse and
almshouse. Britain with her enormous
building difficulties is bravely tackling the
problem, and some other European
countries are ahead of her. Chifley has
promised that the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment will advance to the Victorian
Government all the money needed
to provide cottage homes for the aged
and, also, will subsidise the scheme to the
extent of 12s. in the pound. Now it’s up
to Mr. Hollway.— West Riding (Vic.).
Inland Killing ”
Inland killing-centres, advocated for
years by farmers and graziers, would be
a cheaper method of getting meat to the
metropolis. The present system of siting
saleyards and abattoirs within the city
area is unhygienic and wasteful, and the
meat is not of the same quality as it is
when killed straight from the farm and
dispatched by refrigerated rail-cars or
road-transport wagons.
Take my own country centre, 200
miles from Melbourne, as an example. A
small number of each draft of fat
cattle and sheep being loaded into rail-
trucks get down during the operations and
subsequently have to be destroyed. They
are a complete loss. On arrival in the
city cattle and sheep are usually held 24
to 48 hours before sale, sometimes in
yards which have become quagmires
through heavy rain. When slaughtered
three to four days after leaving the farm
this stock has always lost something in
condition.
Inland killing-centres at strategic points
would also tie in with British rail expert
John Elliott’s plan for the integration and
co-ordination of Victoria’s rail- and road-
transport systems. Where a dally fast
service could not be provided, refrigerated
road-wagons could be used. They
would have the additional function of
acting as feeders to main-line rail services
also envisaged in the Elliott plan.
—Plain Australian (Vic.).


between “Shipwreck” and “Heart-
break House,” was something of the
coarse and villainous vitality of a rustic
squire from Kevin Brennan’s Toby Belch,
who became chiefly a comic drunk; the
deeper sly wickedness that should accom-
pany the jollity of Gwen Harrison’s
Maria ; the words of Richard Meikle’s
Feste, polished to the point of incompre-
hensibility ; a willingness to yield him-
self to the audience’s laughter on the part
of Rolf Bartik’s Malvolio ; and, parti-
cularly, any resemblance to anything in
human nature in Arthur Bests’s Ague-
cheek, who is admittedly a caricature but
should not be a caricature of nothing.
But if the play is, as Sir Toby says, a
trout that must be caught by tickling.
May Hollinworth’s production tickled
well enough. What emerged all the more
strongly because of the thinning of the
broad comedy was the charm of the
play; the light gaiety, the songs of
Richard Meikle, the poetry, the delightful
eagerness of Shakspeare’s women, who,
while the male lovers sit about and sigh—
which Jules Feldman did very nicely as
the Duke—go for the man they want with
a wonderful and ruthless directness.
Rosemary Miller was a captivating
Olivia and Dinah Shearing, as Viola, gave
by far her most spirited performance to
date, Michael Plant and Lionel Bain
did well in their brief appearances.
TALKIES
"To Live in Peace."
This beautiful Italian film about a
peasant village desperately anxious “to
live in peace,” but being singed by the
hot breath of war, is, like most continental
films which reach these parts, a wonder-
ful gallery of character-studies. Dominat-
ing all of them is Aldo Fabrizi as Uncle
Tigna, fat, grubby, industrious, voluble,
slightly afraid and wearing like a garment
the overall dignity of human kindness.
The others, his family and the villagers
are all set in a similar key—all kindly
people, all mainly concerned with their
gardens and fields and animals and all
listening a little fearfully to the distant
sounds of war.
The war, in fact, is the only real villain,
almost like a dragon lurking in the woods
beyond the village. Even its agents are
drawn with a measure of sympathetic
understanding—the Fascist-party repre-
sentative in the village is just an idler
enjoying a little authority and the one
German soldier stationed there is more
farmer than soldier.
The delicate balance of work and gossip
and fear is upset when Tigna’s nephew
and niece find two American soldiers, one
a wounded negro, in the woods and bring
them home for shelter and medical atten-
tion. While they are there the German
soldier comes to Tigna’s house and decides
to stay for supper; the negro, hidden in
the cellar, gets clamorously drunk, and to
drown the noise Tigna plies the German
and his own family with wine and food
and generates a screaming, drunken party
while all the time the negro’s yells a nd
the noise of breaking bottles from the
cellar grows louder. Suddenly the negro
breaks out, and he and the German stand
f&cjng each other, both of them dazed
and stupid with wine and glaring like
two wild animals. The situation bursts
into drunken laughter and the two of
them go off to ride donkeys on a wild
jag through the village, firing off a pistol
and sub-machinegun until the villagers
believe they are celebrating the end of
the war.
That part of the film is magnificent—
like an explosion set off by the small
fuse of fear in the earlier sequences.
When it is over the debris includes the
German in a drunken sleep ouside his
office and the villagers wondering fear-
fully if he will remember, and deciding
to move but to the hills and wait there
in case he does. By this stage, however,
the characters have all been fully and
satisfying! y drawn, and the dramatic
action has reached its tremendous peak
and subsided. With commendable artistry
the film tidies up, snips the few necessary
'threads and finishes as beautifully as it
started. (At Sydney Savoy.)
"The Small Back Room."
Emeric Pressburger and Michael
Powell, a little more subdued than usual,
made this Archers Production from Nigel
Balchin’s novel, and made a pretty good
fist of it. The story—of a crippled
scientist battling against physical pain,
mental suffering and official red-tape—is
quietly and expertly told from two or
three approaches until the character of
the man (played by David Farrar) is com-
pletely drawn and carried through to its
natural development.
A good deal of by-play brings in some
official and political figures (Robert
Morley is one of them) and makes some
pleasantly sharp satire of all their back-
stabbing and -scratching and string-
pulling at the expense of the services and
scientists who are backing them up. Leslie
Banks is worth noting as a fair sample of
an honest colonel with the political world
on his back —“Despite the opinions of the
daily Press, the war will be won by the
Army, the Navy and the Air Force —in
that order"
The dramatic climax of the film—
Farrar delousing an unknown kind of
German bomb and relating his actions
by field-telephone to the silent watchers
behind concrete shelters—is superbly
done, and when this commentator saw
the film (at Sydney Esquire) half the
audience seemed to duck behind their
seats when the spanners slipped and the
bomb looked like going off.
"Britannia Mews."
One of the most remarkable things
about Hollywood is the regular efficiency
with which it turns out extravagant melo-
dramas like this Twentieth Century Fox
production (Sydney Century)—all basi-
cally the same but all just sufficiently
different, like an endless stream of bread
and butter and jam with only slight
variations in the flavor of the jam. The
bread in this instance is the story of a
well-bred lady who is fascinated by a slum
alley, Britannia Mews, behind her Lon-
don home and who eventually goes to
live in it by marrying her penniless
drawing-master, who finally relieves her
of his presence by doing a back-flip from
a top-story to the cobblestones during his
more-or-less continual spells on the
bottle.
The butter is provided by another
young man who turns up just as the
widow is in danger of succumbing to her
environment and becoming as slatternly
as the rest of the inhabitants of the alley.
The pair of them find that the lady’s
husband has left behind a complete set
of exquisitely-made puppets, and with
them they establish a theatre which not
only provides them with a comfortable
income, but, by attracting audiences from
all over London, gradually changes the
tone of the Mews until they are recog-
nised as a fashionable corner of the city.
The jam? Well, the young man who
rescues the pretty widow bears such a
remarkable resemblance to her husband
that she is able to pass him off as that
in a reconciliation with her family, who
had disowned her when she married the
drawing-master. And—it’s strawberry
jam—because the young man already has
a wife somewhere he and the widow, in
wistful observance of propriety, occupy
different rooms in the same house for a
few years until the wife turns up from
America or somewhere with the news that
she divorced him long ago. And —it’s
very sweet strawberry—both the drawing-
master and his successor (Dana Andrews
in each case) in the lady’s affections look
exactly like romantic young men in
Hollywood films should look like, while
the young lady (Maureen O’Hara), even
in her worst moments, looks like a cut-
out from a glamor magazine.
One surprising dash of lemon in the
whole piece is provided by a hideous old
blackmailer, played by Dame Sybil Thorn-
dike with concessions to nothing except
her art.
"The Stratton Story."
M.-G.-M. have based a pleasant, senti-
mental film (Sydney St. James) on. the
story of Monty Stratton, a young farm
lad who took up baseball, became one of
the best pitchers in the American league,
lost a leg at the peak of his career and
then, after a spell of black, melancholy
inaction, doggedly practised his way back
into the game, artificial leg and all.
It’s a direct, simple kind of story, and
James Stewart acts it with, direct sim-
plicity, adding a few touches of his usual
gawky comedy in the country-boy-come-
to-town sequences. June Allyson’s fresh-
ness in the part of Mrs. Stratton adds to
the general atmosphere of the producers
being delighted in finding a factual story
to fit in so well with their sentimental
conception of things in general.
"A Song Is Born."
This lightweight from R.K.O. Radio
(at Sydney Regent) will probably be more
entertaining to those who haven’t seen
Danny Kaye before, and most entertain-
ing to those who have seen neither Kaye
nor the earlier film of the same story, then
called “Ball of Fire.” In that film, Gary
Cooper played the earnest professor of
music who, seeking to widen his know-
ledge of the art, takes in a few nightclubs
to study modern stuff and suddenly finds
himself with a singer in tow, the lady
being a gangster’s girl-friend and wanted
by the police. She goes to earth in the
musty old mansion where the professor
and his associates are compiling an
encyclopaedia of music and where, after
considerable excitement and exchange of
interesting ideas, the professor has his
knowledge slightly broadened and the
singer is transformed into a much more
domesticated young woman.
Barbara Stanwyck played the girl, and
she and Cooper both managed to give
their parts the degree of credibility which
one tolerantly accepts in this kind of
film. In the current version, neither
Danny Kaye nor Virginia Mayo can do
it. The Mayo rarely gets past being a
technicolor decoration, and Kaye, leaping
from his lofty and established perch as a
comedian, falls rather short of being a
serious actor —he is at his best in the one
or two brief episodes which permit him
to revert to his usual line of exuberant
comedy, particularly in a demonstration
of an island love-dance.
For the rest, the cluster of professors
includes such old masters as Hugh
Herbert, J. Edward Bromberg and Felix
Bressart and (!) Benny Goodman, while
“modem music” gets more than a fair
innings from Tommy Dorsey, Louis
Armstrong, Mel Powell and several other
authorities unknown to this commentator,
but apparently owning a most devoted
and vocal following.
"Edward My Son."
The main attractions of this play, as
seen by Sydney audiences at the Royal,
are the comedy which leavens the melo-
drama, and the acting of Robert Morley,
who develops an inoffensive clerk into a
financial juggernaut with such subtlety
and light humor that the essential melo-
dramatic nature of the piece is pleasantly
obscured. The film version of the play,
released at Sydney Liberty by M.-G.-M.,
is a much more serious business and has
apparently been arranged more to prove
that crime does not pay than to present a
study of a highly successful villain of
high finance. Spencer Tracy plays the
Morley role of the man who builds a
financial empire for his son and destroys
his wife, friends and most other things
to do it. Tracy is a good actor in his own
line, but he hasn’t the suave, polished
humor of Morley, and without that there's
only melodrama left. Mervyn Johns, as
one of the victims of the tycoon’s ruth-
less ways, gives the best performance in
the film.
Reviewed Briefly.
“Quartet” (Gainsborough film at
Sydney Embassy): The remains of four
Somerset Maugham short stories. F.a.q.
film-fare, but poor Maugham.
* * * ♦
“The Crooked Way” (United Artists, at
Sydney Civic): Another amnesia case,
this time a soldier who discovers he used
to be a gangster and runs into a lot of
strife in sorting out his past. With
John Payne, Sonny Tufts and Ellen Drew.
* * ♦ ♦
“Come to the Stable” (20th Century
Fox, at Sydney Mayfair): Two nuns, a
jeep, tennis, gangsters, etc. For those
who like to take their religion from the
films,
* * * ♦
“Beautiful Blonde from Bashful Bend”
(20th Century Fox, at Sydney Plaza);
Betty Grable.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 41
Across.
I—Hamlet objects to pastors who
travel on this, yet show him a
thorny way to heaven. (8, 4)
9—They are meant to be beaten with
sticks, Timothy, before father
• backed in. (7)
10 They slouch about in unbecom-
ing attitudes. (7)
11 Complete part of the undertak-
ing in an exam. (5)
12 Miser to thrash a writer to New
York. (9)
13 Son-in-law of Mohammed. (3)
14— Scottish river heads off obstinate
red Russians in November. (5)
15— Pleasanter. (5)
17—It has 21 spots—and is, there-
fore, to kick the bucket? (3)
19— Verily, it lies on the line from
Seymour to Alexandra. (3)
20 — Sounds as if this German town
might mean opposite directions.
(5)
21— A principal in the van. (5)
22 Thus coppers are concerned in
the turf. (3)
23 Stop crime (anagram). (5, 4)
25—Sculptor notes the condition of
anyone who swallows a pole. (5)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
C Solution in next issue.)
26 Pick the floor-covering sound of
a clock. (7)
27 — Crooks’ song to be a suit. (7)
28 — Malta got the peevish king. (6, 5)
Down.
1 — £25 is just about at the limit of
this dowry. (9)
2 I’m mum but I have a cata-
logue’s people who are indifferent
to worldly success. (14)
3 Put the back mountains in a
new order. (9)
4 Pawnee’s customer bobs up in
cheap and lurid fiction. (8, 7)
5 Bobby permits European river
carriers of disease to study the
racehorse establishment. (6,' 9)
6 Flower gives cheek to you
French. (5)
7 It is offensive to upset an en-
closure. (5)
8 — Copper coppers peruse the begin-
ning of this cheap and lurid fic-
tion. (5, 9)
16 —Car-adorer might be this. (4, 5)
18—Stop being furious! (8)
23 — Cross-examines dancing shoes.
(5)
24 — Act with excessive feeling and
make a witty remark with extreme
ease. (5)
Solution to Crossword No. 40.


1 M
mu
m
M
S
f
I
*9
Q
1
t:
c"-
:n
S 3
**
IS
n
you build
or buy a home
consult Th&
MIX
The M.L.C. can offer you finance on most
reasonable terms. By means of Life Assurance
your debt is covered should you die during
the term of the loan. Full information is
freely available from any M.L.C. Office or
Representatives
MLC
The MUTUAL LIFE and ClTlZENS’Assurance Co. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE:
Collins and Elizabeth
Streets.
BRISBANE:
Commercial House,
Queen and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE:
Savings Bank Building,
101 King William Street.
PERTH;
1 79a St. George’s
Terrace.
HOBART:
Bank of Australasia
Chambers, Elizabeth and
Collins Streets.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.):
M.L.C. Building. Lambton
Quay.
