

GREAT
WESTERN
A PRODUCT OF THE
d
HOUSE Ofi SEPPELT
,
The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” VoL 70—No. 3646
Wednesday, December 28, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
EDINBURGH has been compared
to Budapest, to Athens and to
Prague, not so much because of for-
mal, physical resemblance as because,
like those cities, it expresses the mood
and soul of a natio: It is a capital
whose stones enshrine the story of a
people and whose spell has captured
the hearts of men and women from
all over the world. In every corner
of this ancient city are memories of
acts of heroism and patriotism; of
constancy to theological and politi-
cal creeds on the part of Royalist and
Covenanter alike; of ruthless acts
and violent outbursts of party zeal
and popular fury, of self-sacrifice for
lofty ideals.
One of the many historic monu-
ments to be seen in the city is the
Mercat Cross, which stands near St.
Giles Cathedral. For centuries the
Gross was the scene of many pageants
and civic ceremonies, and in modern
times Royal proclamations are read
by the heralds standing on the gallery
at the base of the shaft. The unicorn
on its summit was damaged in 1652
by Cromwell’s troops, and in 1756
the whole structure was taken down.
The shaft, however, was preserved
on Lord Somerville’s estate at Drum,
and in 1866 was replaced outside St.
Giles. W. E. Gladstone restored the
Cross, and had it erected near its
original site in the High Street, in
1885. During the same year the new
Cross incorporating the ancient shaft
was handed over to the Lord Provost.
On the Cross is a Latin inscription
written by Gladstone in which that
statesman claims “through both
parents a purely Scottish descent.”
AN EMPIRE LANDMARK IS EDINBURGH'S MERCAT CROSS


fd
This Book FREE to YOU! .
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, os
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
8.8. 149 AOE.
The Red Page
NEWCASTLE'S SAINT.
When Charles Freer Andrews (1871-
1940) died biographical sketches in
Indian newspapers gave his birthplace as
Carlisle, on the strength of one of his
books, whereupon one of his present
biographers, Benarsidas Chaturvedi and
Marjorie Sykes, received a reproachful
letter which they quote in their Charles
Freer Andrews (Allen and Unwin),
giving
the relevant entry from the birth
register of Newcastle-on-Tyne, and asking
why we should conspire “to deprive New-
castle of its only saint”?
Andrews certainly impressed people in
that way. When he first visited Allen
and Unwin, the publishers, the reception
clerk got through to Sir Stanley Unwin:
“He has no appointment, but I feel it is
important you should see him. He is not
an ordinary man.”
And he certainly looked the part, when
he arrived at the immaculate Army and
Navy Club in Pall Mall for lunch with
Sir Gordon Guggisberg, Governor-
Designate of British Guiana, wearing
“shabby canvas shoes and shapeless old
flannel trousers and a cricket shirt with
a frayed collar” ; or when he mingled
with the sahibs on a ship in the East in
“down-and-out European clothes, plus
bare feet” ; or when, talking late at night
to an Indian friend in central London,
he had kicked off his shoes and was com-
fortably relaxed in his stockinged feet:
Suddenly he looked at the clock —the last
Underground train to his own Hampstead
lodgings was due to leave within five
minutes! He leaped to his feet and dashed
for the stairs and the street. His footgear,
abandoned and forgotten, caught his host’s
eye. Snatching them up, he pursued his
guest along the city street to the Tube
station, where he thrust them upon their
owner as he took his ticket.
Another day he was about to leave for
Manchester to learn, for Mr. Gandhi’s
information, how the manufacture of
cotton goods in India might affect em-
ployment in Manchester; and sat down
in the Indian students’ canteen with some
friends who were beginning lunch and
ordered a meal that would cost him Hd,
“Let us call you aJaxi,” said his Indian
friends when it had been eaten. “Oh, no,
I think a bus will do” . . . The total
assets of the traveller, apart from his
ticket, were discovered to be threepence.
Wherever he went women —in 1917-18
members of the Australian Women’s
Association, whom he stirred up to in-
vestigate indentured Indian labor in Fiji
—mended his ragged coats and shirts and
saw that he had plenty of socks and
handkerchiefs. To give him a rug or a
thermos-bottle was to make sure that it
would be handed within a day or so to
the needy; and he would as casually dis-
pose of his friends’ effects in charity.
His biographers do not explain where
he got the money to live at all. Son of
a minister of the Catholic Apostolic
Church, he was converted to the Church
of England at Cambridge, and after a
tough apprenticeship at Pembroke Col-
lege Mission in South London he was
ordained, broke down from overwork,
became a Fellow at Pembroke College
(and coach of its eights), and with the
death of his friend Basil Westcott in
India went to India in 1904 to take his
place in the Cambridge Brotherhood
Mission, the head of which was the
Indian S. K. Rudra.
By 1912 two of his worries came to a
head; the conflict in India, of race and
religion, and doubt about that part of
the Athanasian Creed which condemns
all outside the orthodox and complete
Christian faith to everlasting death. He
resigned his priesthood and went to teach
at the Indian Santiniketan school rek
cently formed by Rabindranath Tagore,
whom he had met in London.
All of which made him feel more,
rather than less, a Christian ; but it is
not surprising to read that British
Christians in India spoke unkindly of him
(the congregations and not the priest-
hood) ; although it is rather ironical that
when he went to Poona in 1920 for an
all-India meeting of Christian students
“a few of the students were still inclined
to be suspicious of his ‘credentials’:
‘Are you a Christian?’ they asked
doubtfully.”
When he first met Gandhi on the wharf
at Durban in 1914 Andrews, who had
arrived to aid Indian agitation in South
Africa, bent and touched Gandhi’s feet
—the gesture of obeisance. On another
visit to Africa in 1921 he was charged
with “betraying Christianity by his
friendliness towards Hindus and Mus-
lims,” and at Nakoro station at midnight
a party of settlers tried to drag him out
of the railway carriage by his beard and
might have killed him only that their rage
had been cooled by a day’s wait,
Andrews having been too ill to keep to
his schedule.
Thus there is a certain amount of
foundation for an alleged reference by
the Secretary of State for India, Mr.
Montagu, to Andrews as “God’s Own
Fool,” for he belonged more to God than
to orthodox Christianity or to the
Indians, and that is hardly worldly-wise.
But if Mr. Montagu called Andrews
“God’s own fool” it must have been
with the respect Englishmen have always
had for fools, who so often are the only
messengers capable of bringing the voice
of the people through the walls of power
and privilege—and the voice of the
people is the voice of God.
At the same time he' got a remarkable
amount of rope. When it is remembered
that Andrews was a British Gandhi,
working openly for the overthrow of
British power in India, invited by Indians
with charming flattery to dinners “for
Indians only,” supporting Gandhi in his
passive resistance measures and starva-
tion strikes, propagandising in papers all
over India and lecturing and organising
on behalf of India all over the world (he
went to America to counteract Miss
Mayo’s “drain-inspector’s report” in
Mother India), acting as Gandhi’s aide
in England and as his spokesman to
Ramsay MacDonald and other Cabinet
Ministers, the British toleration of him
must seem striking.
After one of his speeches in 1921 a
member of the House of Commons de-
manded that Andrews be sent to Eng-
land and tried for sedition. But a Bengal
official said;
You know, we don’t know what to do
with a man like that. If we put him in
prison he wouldn’t mind, and there’d be a
hell of a row! If today the Viceroy were
to say Do this, and Andrews were to say
No, ninety-nine per cent, of Indians would
obey Andrews rather than the Viceroy.
At about the same time Andrews was
writing to Gandhi:
East Bengal is on the very borderline of
violence it is highly emotional, quick-
tempered, hot and passionate. These
strikes in such inflammable material are
like straw to’a fire, and I have been greatly
anxious about an explosion... .Time after
time the passion has died down as I have
spoken about you. They do really under-
stand that in my presence no word even
of violence must he uttered... .The terms
offered by both steamship and railway
companies are honorable terras. 8ut.... •
there is a strike mania....
Had Gandhi and Andrews been merely
rabble-rousers the British might have
made short work of them, Indian support
or no Indian support. It was something
more than expediency in the British that
recognised something more than ordinary
in these two men.
Throughout his life Andrews wrote
books and pamphlets, offwhich a list is
given in the appendix to this biography.
The best known is perhaps What I Owe
to Christ (1932), written in London in the
middle of a turmoil of conferences on
Indian matters.
It was Andrews, returning to India
from Australia in 1936, who proposed
the appointment of an Indian High Com-
missioner for the South Pacific, and con-
veyed offers from the Student Christian
Movement and the University of Sydney
of Australian scholarships to Indian
students. About the same time he asked
the head of the Cambridge Brotherhood
how he stood with his resigned Christian
ministry, explaining again his difficulties
about the Athanasian Creed and the 39
Articles. He was surprised to learn that
on the constitution of the Church of
India, Burma and Ceylon as an autono-
mous Church in 1930, these two requisites
of faith had “ceased to be incumbent on
its clergy,” and so, in November, 1936,
he once more officiated at Communion.
To the reader of this long and heavily-
documented biography the delight of the
workaday saint at returning at last to the
fold must seem gently amusing; it is, no
doubt, in a similar sense that Gandhi’s
foreword, printed in facsimile and dated
8/12/’47, must be interpreted: “A life
such as Andrews’s needs no introduction.
It is its own introduction.”
A Headmaster.
Schoolboy stories are so much the same
kind of thing that new ones seem like
plagiarisms; but at the same time, they
are always irresistible; so that, new or
old, Here's A Villain by George Carson-
Cooling (Watson Ferguson, Brisbane)
makes cheerful reading. And this is true
even when it is not the age of a story
which concerns us, but its authenticity,
as with the letter which Mr. Carson-
Cooling gives “word for word as it was
written”;
Dear Sir,
I see in the morning paper that you are
advertising for a master at your school, and
was wondering if you would prefer to have
a mistress instead. I have had a good deal
of experience and am capable of anything.
I am a widow, but have no children.
Hoping you will oblige
However that may be, Mr. Carson-
Cooling is headmaster of Brisbane
Grammar School, which has been carry-
ing on business since 1869 ; an old boy
of the school, master since 1922, head-
master since 1939, he is an authority on
its traditions, the best-known being the
annual Masters’ Derby, run on Mel-
bourne Cup Day, the horses being the
masters.
The course was the stretch of ground
between the staff common-room and the
New Building, the starting signal was the
bell for the commencement of afternoon
school, and the finishing post was the
threshold of the „ bridge leading to the New
Building.
For some years all went well, the
masters pretending to know nothing of
the race; but there came a year when
the boys so far forgot themselves as to
cheer the winner; next year someone
began an imitation radio commentary on
the race ; and the following year they
took the rope of allowance and tied it
across the bridge as a finishing line; the
race was prohibited on the following year.
But
The Masters’ Derby is still run each year,
but under slightly different conditions. The
course has been changed, the finishing post
being the entrance to the sanitary premises.
From the boys’ point of view this is a
distinct improvement on the old course,
since only about half the staff use the
class-rooms of the New Building.
Another of the school’s traditions is
that in 1881 Prince Edward, Duke of
Clarence, and Prince George, afterwards
King George V, planted fig-trees, which
still flourish in its grounds; but the
school’s main traditions are, as they
should be, its masters, of whom Mr.
Carson-Cooling has innumerable stories:
Bousfield, the classical scholar who
couldn’t add:
“Look sir,” said Smith, laying his prose
on the table, “you’ve marked here 13, 8,
and 4.”
The headmaster picked up exhibit A and
examined it.
“Well, I see nothing wrong with that.
Whah?”
“You see, sir, you’ve given me 13 for
style and taken off 8 for mistakes, which
leaves 5, sir.”
“And what have I put, eh?”
“Four, sir.” •
“And you say it should be 5?”
“Yes, sir.” ’
“Well, I’ll take your word for it, but
it don’t sound convincing to me.”
Or Mr. A. J. Mason (“Shon”):
“Petersham, eh? Let me see, I taught a
Petersham here many years ago. N. N.
Petersham. You are very like him. The
same red hair and freckles. Your father,
I suppose.”
“No, sir. That’s my grandfather.”
Or Jimmy Cowan (“perhaps the most
popular master”), who, on being asked
for the loan of a rubber, said “Use the
boy’s behind”; or Mr. Porter, whose
blackboard amazed the Governor of
Queensland, Sir William McGregor,
paying the class a visit:
The villainous sailor has deliberately
scratched his poor decrepit old grand-
mother’s beautiful leather suitcase with his
ingrowing toenail.
Ail these stories are artfully sandwiched
in between the author’s more serious re-
flections upon the education of the young ;
there are chapters on the examination
system which approach violence ; there is
a revelation of the skullduggery by which
certain schools Mr. Carson-Cooling could
name allow only those pupils to sit for
examinations who are sure to pass, thus
ensuring a 100-per-cent.-pass record to the
school, which is valuable in the eyes of
parents: —
Mrs. Smith came to enrol her son.
“We chose this school,” she explained,
“because your results in the last Junior
Examination were so much better than the
other schools. Bobbie measured them all
in the paper, and yours were —how much
was it, Bobbie?”
“Eight and a half inches,” said Bobbie.
“Eight and a half inches. The next
school only had seven and a half’ inches.”
“Seven and three-quarters,” said Bobbie,
striving to be fair to a fallen opponent.
“Seven and three-quarters. And do you
know,” she added in a shocked voice, “one
school had only three and a quarter
inches.”
“Three and a half,” quoth the raven.
There is a chapter in which Mr. Carson-
Cooling, whose subject is Science, says
such things about Greek and Latin as
must make the classical Bousfield turn in
his grave; he deplores the teaching of
French by rules for holding the mouth
which ensure that the adept will have to
begin all over again if he wants to be
understood by a Frenchman; he is
doubtful of the value of trophies:
At the Brisbane Grammar School a cup
is awarded each year to the best all-round
cricketer in the first eleven One year
Smith was two points behind his rival
Brown when it came to the last match. But
Smith, being the captain, saw at a glance
how to straighten that out. He took over
the bowling, and kept bowling until he had
three wickets to his credit. And the cup.
Brown, who was one of the best bowlers
in the team, was left out in the cold. You
see what I mean about sport \and sports-
manship.
To which one might reply, yes; but
how well qualified it shows Smith to be
for life in the hard cold world ; and what
is the use of a Great Public School if it
cannot teach the young to put a
gentlemanly gloss upon Business and
Robbery? Mr. Carson-Cooling is also a
disbeliever in the flowers-and-bees
approach to the young on matters of sex,
because of little Christopher, who sat in
church with his mother as the bride and
groom walked arm-in-arm down the
aisle:
“Mummy,” he yelled, his voice rising
shrilly above the strains of Mendelssohn,
when is he going to give her the pollen?”
The illustrations by McClure don’t
show much respect for convention, either
Reviewed Briefly .
Englishmen with Swords: Montague
Slater (Bodley Head). An unusual excur-
Sl ° n mt ° what, next to the matrimonial
affan sof Henry VIII, is die territory most
favored by English historical writers—
the tunes of Charles I and Cromwell.
Mr. Slater makes up a fictitious diary
from the genuine documents left by one
Gilbert Mabbott, who was Clerk to the
Secretary-in-Chief of the Parliamentary
Army. The result is a historical novel
with something of the quietly authentic
flavor of Robert Graves’s Sergeant Lamb
series.
* * * *
Byron : Selections from Poetry, Letters
and Journal: A thick Nonesuch Library
volume, edited by Peter Quennell. It
contains nine cantos from “Don Juan,”
three from “Childe Harold,” a selection
of the shorter poems and —most im-
portantly ; for those who don’t know his
prose, in which he showed a gift for
characterisation and vivid description
that would have made him a first-class
novelist, don’t know Byron—a selection
from his letters. Mr. Quennell has written
so well about Byron in the past that he
was clearly the best choice of editor for
this volume. The print, unlike most
editions of Byron’s work, is readable,
* * * *
The Sfory of Sprowston Mill: Wing-
Commander H. C. Harrison (Phcenix
House). History of a Norfolk windmill
from 1780 to 1933, leading to a survey
of windmills in general, with notes on
how to make them. Of special interest
to antiquarians, farmers, Don Quixote,
etc.
♦ * * *
An extraordinarily prolific bird is the
Penguin. Latest issue of the house in
the Pelican series include Before Philo-
sophy, in which four authors, all mem-
bers of the Oriental Institute of the Uni-
versity of Chicago, discuss the quaint
myths, beliefs and speculations in which
the early mystics of Egypt and Mespot
endeavored to unravel the problem of
existence. Horse-racing, by Dennis Craig,
a London law student who made the Turf
his hobby, is a compendium of English
racing, and amidst a dizzy array of names
mentions Night' Raid, “who became the
sire of the famous Australian racehorse
Phar Lap.” Sailing, by Peter Heaton,
is a textbook, lavishly illustrated, for all
those who aspire to go down to the sea
in anything from a 14ft. dinghy to a
Thames barge. The most remarkable of
the collection is the first of the Penguin
musical scores. They are Mozart’s
Symphony No. 40 in G Minor, Bach’s
Brandenburg Concerto No. 3 in G, and
Beethoven’s Coriolan and Egmont. Bio-
graphical notes, a short analysis of the
work and the entire score are given.
Goethe’s Faust, by Philip Wayne, is added
to the Library of New Translations of
the Classics.
“M.H.”: Whatever book of Chester-
ton’s was reviewed in 1908 together with
Will Lawson’s first booklet of verse The
Red West Road, it can scarcely have been
Chesterton’s first (B. 23 /11 / ’49). So far
as I can at present establish, Chesterton’s
Greybeards at Play and The Wild Knight
were both published in 1900, the former
first. The Wild Knight went into second
edition in 1905. Other early books were
a monograph on G. F. Watts, the painter
(1902 or 1904), The Napoleon of Notting
Hill (1904), and Heretics (1905). Of
these five, the first two are verse. Did
Chesterton publish anything in book-form
before 1900? My information is that he
didn’t, but by 1908 he was well estab-
lished with a dozen books to his credit.


TRUTH «.IN ADVERTISING”
mm HORDEMS’
have the finest range of
ish Lawn
since pre-war days!
We have just the mower for you! Prices range from the Qualcast, at £7/5/6
with ball bearings, five Sheffield steel blades and adjustable handles to
the latest models of motor mowers. Motor models, priced to £BB/15/-.
r
} •
V W
.. /
/X
rv^
% ! *
|t’ *
pr
Yvs' ,i a
m-h
A
-r
S?l
3
■ ' *>•* i
•43?^
3£
/
■I
;
c
..v,>.wvv..y.'
I
a^3
Kl
wS,
o 5
RAtiS
SSS
A. —Austral Mower, 14in. cut, 7 blades, grass box, bearings. £32/11/3
B. —Celer Mower, grass box, 16in. cut, ten blades. £52/10/
C. —Ajax 12in. Mower with six blades, grass box, £l7/11/3
D. —l2in. Minor Motor Mower with 98 c.c. motor,
chain drive. 12in, cut, grass box. £6B/15/-
E. —l4in. Minor Motor Mower,
two-stroke Villiers motor, grass
box. £7B/15/-
F. —Gazelle Motor
Mower with 98 c.c. two-
stroke Villiers engine,
has 18in. cut and does
an efficient job. Price is £B5
&
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT—FOURTH FLOOR. TELEPHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


A SHEPHERD AT
SEA
By MACNELL
OF all the things you might have
thought James Brookes was, the
last occupation you would have
given him was destroyer captain.
But that he was, and, as his first-lieu-
tenant would have told you on the
slightest provocation, a damned fine one,
looks notwithstanding. James (he was dis-
respectfully that to all hands, from
bosun’s mate to first-lieutenant) had a
rather prim mouth, a high-bridged nose,
and walked with great dignity, with head
high and deliberate step, as though he
were always walking down a steep, in-
visible hill.
He came on the bridge early, while the
young fo’c’sle-officer was still singling-up
his wires, leaving the one head-rope
holding her knife-edged stem into the
pier. James watched a moment, then
picked up the fo’c’sle phone. It was
answered immediately.
“Ask the sub-lieutenant to speak to me,”
he ordered quietly.
The sub.’s voice came thinly through
the wire, eagerly concerned.
“Sir?”
“Sub.,” replied James, “you seem to be
in doubt as to whether the winch is
capable of parting your 2% wire. I
assure you it is.” ,
“Yes, sir,” gulped the sub. James's
voice went on, quietly and evenly. “Then
why the blue blazes are you trying to tear
the guts out of it! The bight of your
wire is obviously foul of the port anchor.
Clear it.”
He put the phone up. The sub.
muttered to himself. “How the hell can
he see if it’s foul?” and looked over the
port side and found it was.
THAT was James all over. He looked
like a maiden aunt and handled
300 ft. of power-packed hull like a motor-
boat ; spoke like a parson (mostly) and
once cleared a near-mutinous messdeck
with words that cut like a lash into men
already half-aware of the dupes Commo
dockyard-maties had made of them.
His speech and apparent primness were
outward characteristics—beneath them he
was seaman to the core. That, in-
cidentally, was the one obvious thing
about James. Destroyers have grown in
size, armament and cost, till today they
resemble young cruisers. Two things the
earliest torpedo-boat-destroyers hold in
common with their modern sisters —speed
and shell-like thinness of hull. So,
whether the ship be one or three hundred
feet long, lightly armed with 12-pounders
or bristling with twin 4.7’5, the handling
of it in flotilla manoeuvres demanded, and
still demands, the highest degree of cal-
culated timing and experience to prevent
a shearing, buckling collision. So, of
course, James (who * had been in de-
stroyers for 12 years) was, obviously, a
seaman.
The way he took her out now was an
education. She lay port side to the pier,
with a cruiser of the Pacific Fleet ahead
and one of MacArthur’s merchantmen
astern. To starb’d, in mid-stream,
clanked a rusty, mud-caked dredge. Off
the cruiser’s bow waited a tug —for the
cruiser. A destroyer captain would as
soon think of a tug to help him into the
stream as would a skiff cox’n.
James stood leaning on the port wind-
break. He, had already judged the
distance to the cruiser’s stern. Holding
his bow in was a 2|-inch steel-wire
spring, leading from the port bow aft to
a bollard on the pier near the bridge. He
spoke over his shoulder to the navigator
waiting near the wheel-house voice-pipe.
“Slow ahead starb’d. Port 20.”
From aft came the faint clang of
answering engine-room bells. A moment,
and the long, low hull spawned a swirl of
white from her tail. The outward-
turning starb’d screw dragged her stem
out and her bow in, at the same time as
it forced the ship slowly ahead. The
spring came up, tautened, and held her.
Rudder, screw and spring pulled her nose
hard-up against the pier, against the coir
fenders fo’c’slemen had lowered over
the side. Her stern swung farther out,
pivoting on the spring, till it cleared the
merchantman astern. On both cruiser
and merchantman a small group watched
the manoeuvre.
James gave another order, and showed
his hand, palm upward, to the foc’s’le
officer. The swirling astern ceased, and
the spring came off the pier bollards and
was run in through the fairleads. Then
she shuddered, and a creaming white
froth, muddied brown by the stirred
harbor-bed, raced from her screws
forrard along both sides. Under the
drag of both screws she slid easily and
smoothly astern from the pier. He let
her go till she reached mid-stream, half
a ship’s length from the dredge. Then
he stopped her, ordered one screw ahead,
the other astern, and she pivoted beauti-
fully with no forward movement, her
low-hung stern arc-ing swiftly towards
the dredge.
A couple of dredge hands idling by the
rails came running aft with fenders.
James grinned. At exactly the right
moment he stopped the port screw, then
slow ahead both, put his helm over, and
the destroyer, clearing the dredge by 10ft.,
picked up speed, pointed her sharp nose
down-stream an 4 headed at 10 knots for
the open sea.
I T was the first-lieutenant’s watch, the
1 dog-watches between 4 p.m. and eight.
He was taking bearings of the fanged
mass to port when the sub. ran on to the
bridge to report his anchors and cables
secured for sea. He made his report, and
added:
“I say, Number One. There’s no doubt
about the old boy, eh? From forrard I
would have sworn we’d climb inboard
of that dredge.”
“My boy,” mumbled the first-lieutenant,
through the pencil in his mouth, and
walking to the chart to plot his bearings—
he was fully three years older than the
sub.’s nineteen years, but, as second-in-
command of half-a-million-pounds’-worth
of ship and almost 200 men, was holding
down a job whose counterpart ashore
would have brought him nearer £2OOO a
year than the £5OO-odd it did afloat —
“my boy, the owner could have got out
of those wide-open spaces with the
quarter-deck awning hoisted up the
mast.”
It must be confessed there was some
slight exaggeration here —the owner
would probably have needed the fo’c’sle
awning as well. “Wait till you’ve been
here long enough to see him wriggle out
of some really unhealthy country. Like
the time he took her into Snake Bay, on
Melville Island —all we had under us was
wet grass. Or in flotilla manoeuvres —
there James really slings her about. Here,
I’ll show you. Wait a minute. What’s
that last bearing? Under your arm there.
248. Right.”
He scribbled a moment, drew three
black lines on the chart’s whiteness,
ringed their point of intersection, flanked
it with a time, and thus fixed the position
of the ship.
“We were exercising outside Trin-
comalee. Not long before they got the
Vampire. Six of us, in line ahead, distance
between ships 300 yards.” He drew six
little figures in line on a signal pad.
“James, last in the line, was ordered by
the leader to take position on the port
beam of the line. Out we swung, and
had just got into possy when the leader
ordered us to resume position between
him arid the next astern, which would
put us second in line, here.”
He scored his pencil through the gap
between the first two figures.
“James headed her in—the line was
doing 25 "knots, mind you—and started to
level her off to slip in between the other
two boats. Both the Gunner and I woke
up at the same time—there wasn’t more
than 200 yards between them. Then a
signal started flashing frantically from the
leader’s bridge. His oil-fuel pump had
broken down, he’d suddenly reduced
speed and there was only 200 yards be-
tween him and his next astern. And
we’re a hundred yards long.
“The Old Boy didn’t bat an eye. I
would have altered course out again at
once; and would have clouted our stern
into the stern of the second in line, who,
of course, was swinging away to starb’d
to clear the leader, James kept on going
—it was bloody beautiful to watch. He
got his bow inside the leader’s wash,
swung her hard-over, and under the
impetus of his speed slid her sideways
through the gap and drove up alongside
the leader’s quarter-deck, on her far side.
I swear you couldn’t have got a deck-
cloth between our stern and the second’s
stem. As it was we sprayed his fo’c’sle
with our wash.
“When we’d sorted ourselves out, James
turned to me and grinned—you know
that grin ; like loosening the strings of a
drawn purse—and murmured: ‘Bit close,
Number One.’ Bit close! A second too
late on the turn and we’d have been in
the leader’s wardroom. So you can see,”
he stepped to the gyro-repeat and checked
the course. “Getting away from that
pier was about as hard as turning over in
bed.”
The sub. was gratifyingly impressed.
THE object of his understudy’s eulogy
was, in the charthouse immediately
below the bridge, happily unaware of it.
James was not bending over his charts ;
he never bent. He was sitting on a high-
legged stool, back erect, and looking
down his bridged nose at the neat lines
and figures which represented, in times
and distances, the area in the South
China Sea which for the next four days,
weather and the Jap permitting, he would
patrol.
Then he stepped deliberately to the
bridge voice-pipe, and in his even, pene-
trating voice asked the first-lieutenant the
ship’s position.
Number One gave it almost immedi-
ately, preening himself that he had a
moment before plotted, his bearings—it
would have pricked his preening to re-
member that James had waited till a
minute past the quarter-hour to ask him,
knowing that in accordance with his
standing-orders the ship’s position was
fixed every 15 minutes.
James ran off the given line of bearing,
a distance along it, circled the resultant
position and sat there, musing, his mind
on another pencil line further west, to-
wards Tunata Island, almost due west
from Brunei, in Borneo. This was an
interpretation on the chart of a position,
course and speed given him by the Intelli-
gence report lying near his left hand. It
referred to a Japanese submarine.
His mind made up, James picked up the
report, stepped over the chart-house door
coaming like a spinster over a puddle and
climbed the bridge ladder. Seeing his
head appear, Number One was irresistibly
reminded of something missing about
James —he should, you felt, on that nose
and with that pursed mouth, be wearing
pince-nez. Nothing could have fitted him
more perfectly. As it was, binoculars.
“Number One,” James interrupted the
mental fashion-parade, “the wake is like
a dog’s hind leg. Steer closer, man, steer
closer.”
“Aye, aye, sir,” jerked Number One,
and vented his spleen on the helmsman be-
low.
James waited till he’d finished, lifted
his eyes long enough for the other to
read where the fault really lay, then
motioned to the chart table.
The younger man forgot his embarrass-
ment —you couldn’t feel resentment to-
wards a man as quiet (normally), as prim
and proper and as good a seaman as
James —in the information his captain
now gave him.
“I think we may be on to something.
Number One. This,” tapping the re-
port, “arrived as we left. The American
City of York thought she sighted his
periscope about 50 miles east of Tunata ;
one of our Catalinas is certain. He’s
probably heading for Leyte —the pickings
are fat there. We’ll head across here to
intercept.” His manicured forefinger
whispered across the chart. “I want
depth-charge crews exercised before dark,
and direct-action ammunition provided
at all guns. Warn the asdic team.”
“Yes, sir.”
“And tell the ship’s company what it’s
all about. You—er —have a somewhat
more fluent turn of speech than I.” He
“loosened his purse-strings” fleetingly,
then mounted his stool set in sacrosanct
isolation against the fore-end of the
bridge.
T T was his routine position for dusk, and
1 its selection was, like everything about
a destroyer captain, only in appearance
casual. Level with his stomach was an
auxiliary voice-pipe that ran like a nerve
to the wheel-house; on his left the mag-
netic compass; below him the full,
cleaving sweep of the fo’c’sle and its two
twin guns, ahead the stretching expanse
of enamelled sea, now darkling, clear to
the encircling rim of the far horizon ;
above him the tall steel mast cluttered
with radar antenna;, their sets’ operation
and direction betrayed to him by the
position of the queer-shaped aerials.
Below him and to his left, most im-
portant of all the bridge instruments that
made a plane’s dashboard look like a
billiard-table, was the repeat-dial of the
asdic set. He watched its pointer
then stop a moment while the cheese-
shaped sonic beam speared from the
ship’s hull, listened to the resonant
“ping” of its operation, subcon-
sciously noted there was no answer-
ing “peep” (which would have meant a
contact! and then, as the pointer moved
on to the next sector, lifted his face to the
heavens and swept their reaching empti-
ness.
Half an hour later and the day had
slipped from the rim of the sea to port,
and.low down to starb’d the young moon
was like a luminous grub spinning a
cocoon round itself in the sky. Directly
above the masthead the stars hung count-
less in a thin cloud of luminous dust.
The .sea itself lay mute as a dream, ex-
cept where the moonlight trembled in
yellow flakes on the arc-ing bow-waves
of theiV passage.
A lovely night, James thought. His
gaze filtered down the spotted heavens,
subconsciously identifying each large star,
till his eyes .were drawn, irresistibly, to the
lovely, glittering path of gold the rising
moon laid to his feet. Then his brows
drew together ; for one second he stared ;
then his brain acted with a cold, instant
certainty. His left hand had already
opened the; voice-pipe cover. He spoke
into it tersely.
“Hard a starb’d! Full ahead both!”
NUMBER ONE', lounging both arms
on the chart-table weather-dodger,
heard the order and jumped to' his side.
No need to point. From out of the
shining yelldw sheet to starb’d had
sprung the White wake of a loosened
torpedo. It Reared for the ship in a
straight, arrowj-headed line.
She was now answering the hard-over
face of her rudder and the enlivened
thrust of both screws. Round knifed the
slender bow, farther, faster. She heeled
on the turn ; fitom the chart-house came
the clatter of falling instruments. Then
she was right round and racing parallel
with a long, smooth road of water which,
with the torpedp that laid it, now reached
{Continued on page 20.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 70 —No. 3646
Wednesday, December 28, 1949
WETTING THE BABY’S HEAD.
“And the more we get together the happier we’ll be!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
- Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
HALF A CENTURY.
Nineteen-fifty is not quite that mark,
of course. The Australian Common-
wealth does not swing into its second
half-century until the beginning of 1951.
Nevertheless, the new Government might
well point to some significance in 1950’s
arrival in striving to inject impulses
towards a new effort in nation-building.
How slowly History moves let this
published reflection declare:
The year which closed the decade was
one of unprecedented prosperity for Aus-
tralia. The steady growth of immigration,
after a long period of stagnation,...
augurs well for the future. This prosperity
owes nothing to legislation. It is to the
increase [of revenue] in our great staples
of productive industry which alone can
face the markets of the world —our wheat,
wool, meat and butter —helped by three or
four years of generous seasons, that our
community owes its ability to spend freely
and live happily. The bounty of Nature
is bestowed universally; it smiles more
generously upon the industrious than upon
the idle; but it does not, like political
bounties, aim at making one section of
the people rich by tapping the pockets of
another. A cycle of unfavorable seasons,
which we dare not hope to escape
altogether, will test many of our legislative
palliatives It will require all the wisdom
of our political leaders to save us from a
bureaucratic tyranny that will either kill
all aspirations for personal liberty, or
evoke a reaction fraught with the gravest -
danger to our inherited traditions.
Those sentences are not from the lips of
any member of the Government elected
at the close of the first half-century of
our story. They were written by the
historian, Henry Gyles Turner, summing
up at the close of our first decade. “The
real solution of the future of Australia,”
he wrote, “has been relegated to the
people, whose decision will have an im-
portant and possibly a lasting influence
in making or marring the relations be-
tween the Commonwealth and the States.”
In illustration of the axiom that the
more the thing changes the more it is
the same thing, it may be observed that
Turner’s qualms' about strife with the
States were caused by (1) the threatened
advent of direct Federal taxation (there
was no Federal income tax) in the form
of the land tax, and (2) the Labor demand
for an alteration of the Constitution to
enable the Commonwealth to take from
the States, in the words of the then young
“Billy” Hughes, “nothing less than entire
control of industry and of trade and
commerce.” Today the Federal Parlia-
ment imposes all income taxes, to the
exclusion of the States, to which this field
then solely belonged; and successive
Federal Governments have spent 40 years
in trying vainly to get a transfer of in-
dustrial powers carried by referendum.
As regards universal military training,
too, the Commonwealth in 1950 is back
tq where it was in 1910, when, as Lord
Kitchener had just reported, “the present
forces are inadequate in numbers, train-
ing, organisation and munitions of war
for the defence of Australia.” Menzies
now has come in, like Fisher then was
about to come in, committed to put com-
pulsory training on a solid basis'.
A reflective glance over the past 50
years may well paralyse anybody’s pro-
phetic instincts for the 50 years next
ahead. The past half-century has been
the age of electricity and of the internal-
combustion engine, and what it has done
to revolutionise life in this country en-
tirely eclipses the developments, tremen-
dous as they were, in the previous five
decades of steam-power. It is interesting
to study the period of the Common-
wealth under review in some such analysis
as this:
Political
Decade. Its emblem. Conditions.
Ist The motor-car. “Three elevens in
the field.”
2nd The aeroplane. War and unify-
ing effect of war.
3rd Wireless telegraphy. League of
Nations, the
“class war,”
prosperity boom.
4th Radio. Depression; new
war coming; dis-
illusion.
sth The atom-tromb. Worse war; loss
of faith; social
revolution.
The sixth decade promises vast new
changes in life and international inter-
course, with jet-propulsion, atom-energy,
rocket-penetration of the stratosphere,
and substitution of machines for manual
labor. In the 21st century differences
in character and way of living between
the peasant and the city dweller in any
leading country may be as great as the
differences in the 19th century between
Chinese and Western Europeans.
It is under the pressure of such revo-
lutionary changes that the people of the
old world in Europe—overcrowded,
undernourished, stifled in close-packed
cities whose growth of population, once a
matter of pride, is now humanly-speaking
a disease —are turning to the less-inhabited
countries. Of these a prime attraction is
towards Australia, for the easily-under-
stood reasons that there is here a sound
core of civilised settlement, a respectable
foundation of law and order, a tried
democratic tradition, a prospect of cul-
tured amenities compensating for those
left behind in the Europe of memory,
and a homogeneous people upon which
these additions can build up the larger
nation of the future without imperilling
its political unity. In 1900 the popula-
ton of Australia was just over 3i mil-
lion ; we enter into 1950 with approxi-
mately eight million.
Many people hold that we shall have
done a man-sized job if we can double
our numbers again by the year 2000. But
demographers regard such talk with a
sad smile, and ask what virtue there will
be in such a performance when, before
half the next 50 years is out, the popula-
tions of India, China and Japan will have
doubled, also, and the islands of Indo-
nesia will hold over 130 million. Famine,
disease and internecine war are the
factors which in the past kept such in-
creases in check. If the United Nations
should succeed in abolishing all these,
in establishing perpetual peace and ensur-
ing as a sine qua non to that end that
everybody in the world has enough to
eat, free from want and fear, is the in-
evitable consequence a free mingling
of all nations in the late Wendell Willkie’s
“one world,” or do the races of Asia,
by virtue of numbers in a world run by
atom-energy, take over the dominant
authority at the capital of the globe,
wherever the headquarters of U.N.O. hiay
be?
No Australian can afford to put such
thoughts behind him because he does
not like them. The immigrants now
making towards Australia in streams
ready to swell to flood proportions are
not striking out from Europe because
they expect the rule of peace among the
nations. They are bidding for escape
from overcrowding and shortages of food
supplies. They don’t believe in U.N.O,
or the idealist programme of the Food
and Agriculture Organisation, or a free
life brought to them by somebody else’s
hard work. And if they, in Europe, think
like that today, how long before the
Asiatic peoples are similarly moved?
These are reflections which may serve
to enlarge the theme of Prime Minister
Menzies’s inaugural message to the nation.
Any Australian who, at this juncture,
opposes the reintroduction of compulsory
military training, and clings to the “class
war” among his own people, is not worthy
of the right to a vote on the future of
his country.
A Victory and a Warning.
The result of the Federal election, now
that it is clear, reveals itself as a triumph
of the public opinion of the country over
every kind of influence which a totali-
tarian-minded party-Government in office
could bring to bear.
It goes without saying, in view of the
circumstances, that the Chifley Govern-
ment was far from easy to beat when the
task of beating it was judged by practical
standards. It had no inhibitions about
using its advantages. The tradition which
enjoins Governments not to use public
departments for electioneering purposes
it threw to the winds. Some departments
had been stuffed with voters whose only
task when the election was over and their
credentials began to be considered seemed
to have been to vote the right way.
Civil servants who had earned their
positions, present and potential, by long
years of training and faithful service were
passed over for the headships of depart-
ments in favor of white-headed boys of
Ministers, men sometimes entirely with-
out administrative experience or more
than a sketchy academic knowledge of
the tasks set them.
Government offices poured out election
literature, sometimes not even thinly dis-
guised, while romantics like Mr. Ward
shouted about the volume of Opposition
propaganda, as if it were something evil
and unconstitutional for his opponents to
do at their own expense what he and his
careless colleagues did on a large scale,
against the spirit of all constitutional
usage and the principles of administrative
honesty, at the expense of the tax-
payers.
No measure which the Government
party could think of by way of intimida-
tion, no invention calculated to provoke
fear in the voters of the consequences of
a change of Government was neglected.
In these matters the Government itself
and its supporting Communist unions
were completely without shame. The
linkage in Labor-party advertisements
of Professor Hytten’s name with the
Liberals and the brazen distortion of part
of the text of one of his speeches was a
case in point, well worthy of an adminis-
tration which had for years adopted
Communist propaganda against Mr.
Menzies for sending pig-iron to Japan
and the invention of the “Brisbane-Line”
lie, of which anybody this side of Moscow
and outside the Curtin-Chifley Adminis-
tration would scarcely have been
capable.
The fear of depression was capitalised
on every Labor platform. The right of
the Opposition to defend itself was
savagely attacked. It was implied by
Ministers, from whom at least some
semblance of a constitutional outlook
might have been expected, that those
whose lives were to be thrown into up-
heaval by bank nationalisation and similar
measures were involved in something
almost criminal in daring to oppose the
Government.
It was suggested again and again on
Labor platforms that for a young man,
a soldier with a wife and children and a
stake in the country, as well as a vote,
to rise and dare to ask a Labor member
or Minister a question at a public meet-
ing was evidence of his dishonesty and
of his being a paid agent of a “Fascist
minority.” There was a sinister implica-
ton throughout that those who did not
conform to Labor’s viewpoint and take
the proper side in the “class war” might
look forward to being branded, if Labor
won, as the harborers of what in Eastern
Europe are described as “dangerous
thoughts”—something far more danger-
ous for an elector in a totalitarian country
to have in his possession than stolen
goods.
Finally, the question of compulsory
military service was worked to a shred
—by the Prime Minister and his deputy,
Dr. Evatt, in particular. This part of the
Labor campaign was perhaps the most
shameful of all. Labor has always pre-
tended to place the defence of Australia
first and to justify its opposition to the
sending of troops overseas, even on occa-
sions of dire peril to the whole of the
British Commonwealth, by the plea that
every man would be needed in emergency
for the defence of Australia at home. Yet
on the question of training for that
defence, at a moment when Asia is seeth-
ing, and when the community is honey-
combed with allies of Soviet Russia and
Mao’s China, the Prime Minister and
his offsiders stumped the country trying
to frighten women with the prophecy
that a defeat of the Government would
mean the dragging of men out of good
jobs to labor as conscripts—some, of the
more shameless Labor propagandists
added the words “on six-bob a day.”
And this only three months after Mr.
Chifley and his Ministers had felt them-
selves compelled, in flat defiance of their
own party platform, to use the military
in an industrial dispute to prevent life
and employment being brought to a
standstill by a seditious strike engineered
by the agents of an alien country.
Despite everything—specious plea, mis-
representation, libel, threat, intimidation
and the misuse of Government facilities
which belong equally to all classes of the
people—the Chifley Government was
decisively defeated ; evidence that where
the Constitution is threatened and indi-
vidual rights are brought into question,
threats and bribery do not work. The
instinct for freedom still lives in the
breasts of the majority of Australians, and
subservience to political dictatorships goes
only a certain length.
The outcome in many ways must have
been a shock to Labor leaders, but it
should make it plain to them that what
they apparently took to be a willingness
on the part of the people to accept the
management of their lives to any extent
in return for high wages was merely a
long-suffering patience which was pre-
pared to give them rope, but only rope
with a noose' on the end of it.
All this needs pointing out at the
moment because of the apparent delusion
existing among Mr. Chifley’s followers
and supporters, especially those in the in-
dustrial wing of the party, that they can
still proceed along totalitarian lines.
promoting the class war and counselling
resistance to the law under any Govern-
ment which is not a Labor Government
and which will not submit to union dic-
tatorship.
Already the attitude of resistance is
apparent in the A.C.T.U. and the Labor
councils. The sham breach in the “united
front” of Labor and Communism seems
to have been healed. The industrial
groups, so ardent in their pursuit of Com-
munists, now seem to have merged them-
selves into the groups which are fiercely
alleging that suppression of Communism
is a first step towards totalitarian sup-
pression of the Labor movement.
There has been no exchange of public
courtesies between defeated Labor and
victorious Liberals as there was in New
Zealand, where, on the night of his defeat,
Mr. Fraser wished the new Prime Minister
well, and promised his co-operation
within the limits of the duty of a consti-
tutional Opposition.
Here there has been nothing but sullen
sulking. If Dr. Evatt’s utterances are any
criterion, there is a refusal to acknow-
ledge an all-round defeat which leaves
Labor in a minority of nearly 30 in the
House of Representatives, and would have
left it in a minority in the Senate if a
voting basis had not been devised to make
that impossible no matter what the verdict
of the people. And the class war is to
continue, with the Communist union
leaders defiantly displaying their muscles
and proving how wrong were those who
believed that they had lost their grip as
the result of the shadow-sparring of the
Chifley Government.
It seems that it would be well for
Labor to remember that the new Govern-
ment has a very explicit mandate, and
that part of that mandate enjoins the
destruction of the Communist party, the
rooting of Communists out of the unions,
the creation of industrial peace and
restoration of security.
Liberal Governments have been
indulgent beyond reason in the past. One
fell in 1941 through that weakness largely
as the result of a campaign of co-opera-
tion between Labor and the big Com-
munist unions and their propagandists.
Those now elected for the job are hardly
likely to repeat that mistake and allow the
country to be held up by industrial strikes
designed to make it impossible for them
to govern.
Queensland and Canberra.
Federal election voting in Queensland,
which almost wiped Queensland “Labor”
from the House of Reps—it won only
three of the 18 seats —was probably
as much a vote against Canberra as
against the defeated.
Especially during and since the war
Queenslanders have become bitter against
the Federal capital because of neglect of
their State and because their State has
suffered badly from Canberra’s
bureaucracy and Canberra concentration
voters of the south.
Communist-led strikes and go-slow,
painful as they were to the south, were
far more so to Queensland, which has to
depend on the south for essential
materials. Whereas strike effects in the
south were largely temporary, in Queens-
land they’ve been continuous, and in a
dozen major and minor ports on its coast
the go-slow policy of Communist-led and
Canberra-encouraged wharfies and sea-
men has been a day-by-day infliction.
In Central and North Queensland to
all this was added growing resentment
of the Chifleys’ obvious intention to re-
tain in Canberra Socialist controls if they
could —Queensland took petrol-rationing
to the High Court and had it de-
clared illegal, Canberra shoved it
back again.
Both sides in the recent election sensed
the importance of the Queensland vote.
“Labor” sent eight of its Ministers elec-
tioneering there, and Mr. Menzies made
two tours. Mr. Menzies, now Prime
Minister, evidently hasn’t forgotten his
Queensland impressions: one of the first
things he said after election was that
neglect of North Queensland must end
and its colossal resources be developed.
“Nobody,” he added, “could go to
North Queensland without sensing the
objections to Canberra.”
When he gets the chance —and he
should make one before too much time
passes—the new P.M. ought to see what
the north thinks about a new State. It
is as tired of government from distant
Brisbane as it was of Canberra; a
sovereign State of North Queensland
would immeasurably strengthen the Com-
monwealth, and from a defence view
alone the vast area can no longer be
neglected.
Having disposed of “Labor” Canberra,
Queensland looks to Liberal Canberra
for a positive new deal.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Well on the Sheep's Back.
A.B.C. got off the track one night recently
when it put over a documentary broad-
cast called “We’re off the sheep’s back!”
With flashbacks of alleged history and
the quoting of figures, this made the
ridiculous assertion that because Aus-
tralia’s wool cheque was £lOO million,
whereas factory production was £3OO mil-
lion or something, we no longer depended
on wool for economic stability.
The “off the sheep’s back” claim is
blown sky-high by these figures, which
show how for 30 years Australia has been
prosperous or otherwise according to the
condition of her wool industry;
Year. £million. Year. £million.
1920- .. 13.1 1934-35 .. 38.5
1921- .. 37.2 1935-36 .. 49.6
1922- .. 46.2 1936-37 .. 60.5
1923- .. 53.3 1937-38 .. 44.0
1924- .. 55.5 1938-39 .. 39.1
1925- .. 57.7 1939-40 .. 65.2
1926- .. 55.6 1940-41 .. 60.9
1927- .. 60.8 1941-42 .. 63.1
1928- .. 57.1 1942-43 .. 74.1
1929- .. 33.9 1943-44 .. 74.1
1930- .. 27.6 1944-45 .. 62.5
1931- .. 29.6 1945-46 .. 58.5
1932- .. 35.0 1946-47 .. 92.)6
1933- .. 52.1 1947-48 .. 155.7
There, for anyone with a memory or
anyone who cares to look up employ-
ment and income figures in the year-
books, is the history of fluctuation of
Australian prosperity for 30 years.
In 1920-22, for instance, drought had
cut the wool yield to pieces, unemploy-
ment was apparent, all that stuck to the
country was big prices for the wheat crops
that came with the rain (wool can’t
recovey at once from drought). Thence
to 1928 there was a “boom” not unlike
the present one, when wages and prices
soared. Then down went wool prices and
down went prosperity, and in the worst
time Australians have ever known,
1930-31, the wool cheque was at its
lowest. After that came the halting re-
covery, up and down as the wool income
went up or down, until 1939.
Why go on? Every economist in the
land knows that we are still well on the
sheep’s back, partly held there by the
wheatgrower. The day that wool income
begins to go down will be the day we’ll
learn once again that internal economy
will be, strong only while our export
income is strong.
One new factor is apparent, and it was
summarised by the National Bank of
Australasia in September:
Some misgiving must be felt that the
prosperity of recent years is so largely
attributable to the extremely high prices
obtained for a narrow range of com-
modities —in particular wool, wheat and
flour. These accounted for over 60 p.c. of
total export income in 1948-49... .High
money incomes and the rising monetary
purchasing-power of the community are
being satisfied to an increasing extent by ‘
imports, thus tending to mask the relatively
poor productive effort at home....
And, says the bank in effect, a fall* in
export income would instantly reveal*
weakness of internal underproduction
and an economy which supposes it could
get along without the support of export
industries. Australian cities are prosper-
ous today, their factories working full-
time and their populations enjoying good
pay and conditions because the world’
wants Australian land products and, so
far, is willing to pay for them. And the
keystone of the whole economic struc-
ture is the fellow whose effigy is stamped
on our shillings.
Dedman Goes West.
Whatever can be said of Mr. J. J.
Dedman, Mr. Chifley’s former Minister
for “Defence,” it will not be that nothing
in his life became him so well as his
political dying.
His outburst on the platform when the
Corio poll was declared —Opperman,
19,899, Dedman, 19,756 —was hysterical
and abusive; it should surely be too
much even for his Labor supporters.
The author of the pink-icing regula-
tions of an earlier war-time Christmas
whimpered that the Liberal party had
defeated him by using “misstatements,
lies and terrorism” and that Mr. Opper-
man had won the election on the Com-
munist vote. He said that his scrutineers
would be prepared to swear that 80
per cent, of the Communist votes favored
Opperman, adding that he would not
have been proud to retain the seat on
their votes.
Apart from the fact that Mr. Dedman’s
scrutineers, like all others, are sworn to
secrecy as to what takes place in the
counting of the ballot, and therefore have
good cause for resentment against him,
the simple facts are that there was no
Communist candidate involved and
that, anyway, the Communist party
throughout called on its members to
give their first preferences to Labor.
In any case, such an outburst as Mr.
Dedman’s gives itself the lie when uttered
by a man who, in his department Of the
C.5.1.R., insisted on continuing the em-
ployment of —inter alia —a Communist
who had been convicted of spying in civil
defence during the war and sent to jail
after having been pointed out in the dock
by Crown Counsel as “the fifth-column.”
It comes equally strangely from one
who, in flagrant defiance of the Returned
Soldiers’ Preference Act, chose as his
chief publicity man in his department of
Post-War Reconstruction Dr. Lloyd
Ross, who had been branded in Parlia-
ment by Mr. Rosevear in 1940 as “a
notorious Communist.” Dr. Ross came
to his job under Mr. Dedman fresh from
a seat on the Central Committee of the
Communist party and gave as his reason
for concentrating on the Labor party
that it contained the greatest field for-
Leninist propaganda.
Mr, Dedman’s outburst especially was
a remarkable utterance coming from a
Minister of whom the Communist party’s
official organ, the “Tribune,” wrote in
1940 when he first contested Corio; —
The Labor party’s candidate for Corio
will be Mr. J. J. Dedman, who won the
pre-selection ballot against eight opponents.
This is an encouraging choice, as Mr.
Dedman has a good reputation in the
Lrtb'or movement, and it is hoped will
prove a strong opponent of war and con-
scription. While the growing anti-war
feeling among workers and farmers makes
the victory for the Communist-party
candidate, Dr. G. P. O’Day, a definite
possibility, Mr. Dedman has an excellent
chance of winning if he and his supporters
adopt a strong policy.
And what is Mr. Dedman crying about
anyhow? Isn’t he the same Dedman who
defended the Communist party a year or
so ago, shouting (“Hansard,” Vol. 181,
p. 44) that “the Communist party is a
political organisation carrying on its
activities in a perfectly legal way”?
He is one defeated Minister who will
not be missed in Parliament.
The Precedent of Solomon.
“If there had been only two infants in
the Kyneton hospital on the day those
two were born,” said Mr. Justice Webb
in the majority decision of the Full High
Court in the Mixed Babies Case, “the
court would, I believe, be obliged to re-
store the judgment of Mr. Justice Barry”
in the first instance.
This oblique reference to the decision
of Solomon in Kings I was apparently
the only notice taken by the High Court
of that famous precedent in case law. By
majority it decided that the child Nola,
now aged 4\ years, should be legally
recognised as the child of Mr. and Mrs.
Jenkins, and that Mr. and Mrs. Morri-
son, who claim that Nola was their
child, should have the other baby, whom
neither set of parents prefers.
On appeal the Victorian Full Court
reversed Mr. Justice Barry’s decision,
and now the High Court has rejected
appeal from the State Full Court.
Yet Solomon in Kings I is perhaps not
so out of date. There was no scientific
test, in the modern sense, known to that
great old judge of “a wise and under-
standing heart,” but he did apply a blood-
test of a sort. An obvious defect in the
Kyneton babies’ case is that only one of
the parent-couples concerned has sub-
mitted (so far as is known) to a blood-
test. The tests applied to Mr. and Mrs.
Morrison, as Chief Justice Latham ob-
served, showed that the other child,
Johanne —the ope which they are left
with —could not possibly be theirs.
In this age of a widespread applica-
tion of blood-tests (the blood-donor ser-
vice, for instance, requires it) —an age
when it is even proposed that there
should be a universal record of finger-
prints—it cannot be accounted satisfac-
tory that the Mixed Babies Case should
rest so far in uncertainty that only one
(Continued on next page)
of the couples concerned has offered
evidence of a blood-test. Solomon in
Kings / can be held to stand.
Bridge Toll Anachronism.
The Government of the proud State of
New South Wales, with an annual revenue
of some £5O million, being unable to pro-
vide the annual sum of £411,000 in order
to remove the anachronism of a toll-
gate on the Sydney Harbor Bridge, its
Premier thinks the Menzies Government
at Canberra ought to find the where-
withal to get the structure—or rather
those who use it—out of pawn.
Actually Mr. McGirr overstates the
amount required to abolish tolls, accord-
ing to the figures given for the last
financial year by the N.S.W. Auditor-
General. In 1948-49 Mr. McGirr took in
tolls £380,795 from private or commercial
road-users and £159,659 from train, tram
and bus passengers—total £540,454. He
also collected another £11,247 from rents.
His debt and sinking-fund charges in
the same period were £341,944, and main-
tenance and administrative expenses
brought this up to £410,499. The cost of
collecting the tolls was £24,535, and he
had a surplus for the year of £116,768.
Nominally the surpluses the State Gov-
ernment has collected ip, every year since
the end of the war should go to discharg-
ing the capital liability rather earlier than
the year a.d. 2000 or thereabouts on sink-
ing-fund arrangements.
The anachronism of the whole business
is now becoming apparent with the really
serious traffic congestion, the costs
thereby added to industry, and the inroads
made on the community’s working time.
The second white city in the Empire ought
to be ashamed for its own sake of the
spectacle. But, of course, the Harbor
Bridge is not simply a connecting link
TRANSLATED KOWTOW.
Australian Communist party to Stalin on his 70th birthday: “We wish you many more years as leader and teacher of the
international working class, architect of Socialism, and defender of world peace.”
Translation: “....to wade through slaughter to a throne,
And shut the gates of mercy on mankind.”


[For election matter David Adams, Cecil
Mann, J. B. Blair and M. H. Ellis, all of 252
George-street, Sydney, are responsible.]
T
■
*
6434 E-R
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVEN'A"
CARRERAS LIMITED
OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
i
between two parts of the city. It is a
national highway in the full sense, and
ought to be freed without another week’s
delay.
Cutting out this silly toll-gate levy
would immediately reduce fares, and
make an appreciable difference to the
overhead of most Sydney industries—if
only by the saving of traffic delays and
petrol. The proper mark at which the
bone ought to be pointed is Mr. McGirr’s
motor-taxation revenue, since the chief
relief from toffs would come to Sydney
itself; but, the McGirr Government being
the sad thing it is, the brighter prospect
of relief is not from any Socialist outfit
but from the Menzies Government in
Canberra.
It is past belief that Sydney or N. S.
Wales, or even the wider Commonwealth,
could tolerate this bridge toll till the
year 1980 or 2000, or whenever it is; and
if the wasteful, exasperating and costly
absurdity is to be abolished, the sooner
the better.
POLITICAL POINTS
In his Christmas broadcast the King
expressed gratitude to the United States
for its understanding and help, without
which “we could not have made the
progress towards recovery that has
already been achieved,” but he went on
to say that no Britons would be satisfied
“until we are again standing upright, sup-
porting our own weight, and we have a
long way to go before we can do that. It
is bound to be a tough business.” A
tough business it will certainly be, but the
Old Country has faced tough propositions
before and proved itself tougher.
After a long run of outs the Chifley
Government at last scored a High Court
win—-a couple of days after it had c'eased
to exist. The upholding of the legality of
the callously-named War-time Refugees
Removal Act and the 1949 Immigration
Act clarifies the position of the Govern-
ment in the matter of aliens within Aus-
tralia. Latham, C.J., said:
No person simply by his own act can
make himself a member of the community
if the community refuses to have him. The
Australian community speaks in respect of
immigration through the Commonwealth
Parliament.
Had the decision come a few weeks ago
it would have meant an end to the hopes
any person of Asiatic origin had of re-
maining in this country, however excep-
tional the case, since Calwell’s attitude
was that the White Australia policy left
the Minister no option but to kick ’em
all out. Holt’s intention is to consider
each case on its merits. This is surely
the sane attitude. A generous and
humane approach to cases like that of
Mrs. O’Keefe would, by showing that
our motives are not based entirely on
racial prejudice, strengthen rather than
weaken the White Australia policy.
Taking a leaf out of the McGirr book,
Eddie Ward, speaking at the declaration
of the poll in East Sydney, blamed “vested
interests” for “Labor’s” defeat; these
interests had spent £1,500,000 to defeat
the “Labor” Government and would now
be looking for their dividends, “As they
receive them, I am certain the Australian
people will begin to realise the mistake
they made on December 10.” He pro-
phesied that “Labor’s” defeat would
prove to be only a temporary rebuff. This
prophesying business is risky. After the
1946 election Cal well, then a bosom pal
of Ward, crowed that. “Labor” would be
in office for another 10 years and would
win the 1949 election “more sweepingly
than we have done this one.” The then
N. S, Wales Premier went further. His
estimate was that “Labor” would govern
for 50 years. Last week, at Yarralumla,
47 years short of his guess, he accepted
the resignation of the Chifley Govern-
ment and swore in its successor.
Menzies was a little more fortunate in
his 1946 comments:
We went a good half-way to victory,
and have every reason for optimism for
the future the Government has plenty
of food for sober reflection. It has lost a
good deal of ground, and we have gained
it. At the next election a changeover of
only 2 or 3 per cent, of the votes cast
will most certainly put the Government
out the loss of one round does not
mean the loss of the fight.
And so it turned out.
Dedman’s outburst at the declaration
of the Corio poll was not only bad
sportsmanship, it was bad tactics, Aus-
tralians admire a good loser ; they despise
a bad one. The man who is narrowly
pipped in a close election-fight and shows
that he can take it with a grin has
already won back some of the votes he
lost; if he takes it badly, he’s gone for
good.
Just what did Dedman mean when he
said that his scrutineers were “prepared
to swear that 80 per cent, of Communist
votes polled favored Mr. Opperman”?
There was no Communist candidate in
Corio. Does he mean that his scrutineers
have personal knowledge of all Com-
munists in the electorate and had some
means of identifying their ballot-papers?
Opperman’s reply to the charge drew
attention to the fact that all scrutineers
are required to sign an undertaking not
to disclose knowledge they may acquire
regarding the vote of any elector. Ded-
man is virtually accusing his own scru-
tineers of breaking their oath of secrecy.
Chifley’s comment published in the
“United States News and World Report”
that “the Labor party had polled a larger
number of votes than any other party
throughout Australia” may read all right
in America, but it* cuts little ice here.
The Liberal and Country parties fought
the election as a closely-knit team and
their supporters outvoted Chifley’s,, even
with the Communist vote thrown in. The
Senate figures show “Labor”-plus-Com-
munists in a minority in every State
except South Australia, and even there the
margin is very small.
If federal “Labor” is ever again in
the position to fix the date of a general
election it would do well to heed the
voices of the soothsayers who warn it to
“Beware December.” On six occasions
there has been a December election —
1903, 1906, 1919, 1922, 1931, 1949.
“Labor” has been stoushed every time
New South Wales will have a batch of
by-elections early in the New Year,
three of them made necessary by the
transfer of the sitting member to Can-
berra and the fourth. Concord, by the
death of Liberal member Brice Mutton.
No changes in party representation are
expected. In 1947 “Labor” man W.
Davies (now Federal member for Cun-
ningham) was returned unopposed for
Wollongong-Kembla. H. J. Bate (Mac-
arthur) won Wollondilly comfortably for
the Liberals, and Country-party man D.
H. Drummond (New England) had a
fairly easy win in Armidale. Judging by
the Federal figures in Lowe the Liberals
have only to put up an energetic candi-
date to hold Concord, wrqpted from
“Labor” early this year.
The McGirr redistribution of State elec-
toral boundaries has now been gazetted.
It increases the number of Assembly seats
from 90 to 94, the Sydney-Newcastle area
gaining at the expense of the country dis-
tricts. When McGirr contemplates the
effect of redistribution on Federal
“Labor” he may not feel quite so happy
about his own new set-up.
The Teachers’ Federation conference
last Wednesday rejected a motion that its
president, .deputy-president and senior
vice-president should be elected by postal
ballot of all members ; they are at present
elected by the conference. Delegates felt
that the old method should stand be-
cause “it had been proved over the years.”
It has also been proved over the years
that the present method results in a
known Communist holding the job of
president.
Gollan, the Communist deputy-head-
master of Albury High School, who stood
as a Red candidate for Farrer and lost
his deposit, has been welcomed back into
McGirr’s N.S.W. Education Department
with a promotion. He goes to the new
Wyoug High School as its headmaster—
an acquisition to the conservative Gosford
district which should stir the orange-
growers and fishermen of that locality.
“Melbn”: Election highlights? At
one of the largest voting centres around
Melbourne some of the informal votes
could hardly be blamed on the stupidity
of the voter. A stream of them must
have emerged from one booth. Arriving
early on the scene, some ingenious indi-
vidual had hung up a neatly-printed
notice, “Be careful to mark each square
with a cross.”
As part of the celebrations of the 70th
birthday of the Red Tsar mountaineers
placed busts of Stalin on 38 high peaks
in Central Asia. That was only toying
with the problem. What they should have
done is find the highest peak of the lot
and stick Uncle Joe himself on top of it.
In a verbal bout with Cramer, chair-
man of Sydney County Council and now
a Liberal M.H.R., McGirr got this off;
“Labor was ejected to office on its elec-
tricity as well as its other proposed re-
forms.” Since that election the McGirr
State has had a record of blackouts un-
equalled anywhere, and all McGirr has
ever done about it is call it a Liberal con-
spiracy.
With an export quota of 600,000 tons
of sugar a year to Empire preferential
markets (pre-war quota was 400,000 tons)
and with a British guarantee to buy all
our export sugar until 1952, the Queens-
land sugar coast feels happy about the
immediate future. It will feel a lot
happier if the Menzies Government can
straighten out the wharf go-slow at sugar
ports and put a stop to the piling-up of
thousands of tons of the stuff awaiting
shipment.
Queensland Premier Hanlon was
abroad when the Golden Casket row
broke out in the Brisbane Parliament, and
his deputy, Mr. Gair, refused to grant a
Royal Commission to inquire into Oppo-
sition allegations of doubtful practices.
When Hanlon got back and found that his
own and a brother’s name (the brother
had won a “special” Casket prize) had
been mentioned, he switched the decision
and a Royal Commission will open the
subject in January.
Another prophet due to eat his words
—or his hat! Ten days before the elec-
tion Senator Ashley said he was con-
vinced that the French petrol “which
Ampol had stated it had obtained would
never be shipped to Australia.” He
claimed that Ampol and Fadden had
conspired to publicise the reports “to
assist Mr. Fadden in his election cam-
paign.” Well, “Fixer,” the petrol is on
the water. What about it?
At the annual meeting of Rubtex Elas-
tics, Ltd,, Landa, M.L.A. for Bondi,
answering questions concerning the sale
of some of his shares in the company,
said “The shares I disposed of I sold to
meet my commitments to Mr. Chifley.”
The remark set some people turning up
Jack Lang’s list of the Chifley mortgages,
but they were on the wrong track. Landa
was merely using the colloquial phrase
for the paying of income tax. It’s out of
date now —“commitments to Mr. Fad-
den” is now the correct term.
Winsor, the Sydney transport boss who
is making a fair fist of straightening out
the city’s public transport system and
some of its taxi-drivers, inherited the
McGirr ifffamous penny surcharge on
travel after 8 p.m. and throughout week-
ends. Winsor says he can’t lift it yet be-
cause revenue hasn’t increased suffi-
ciently. In other words, a grossly unfair
penal charge slapped on all who wish to
travel on a public vehicle in the penal
hours is to remain because the system
can’t yet be made to pay—and the worst
sufferers, as is usual under McGirr’s ad-
ministration, are the “workers,” who can t
afford motor-cars or taxis and many of
whom work night-shift and weekends.
“B.”: Reports of the swearing-in
ceremony mentioned that Dame Enid
Lyons, vice-president of the Executive
Council, was sworn-in on a Bible which
had belonged to her husband. Accord-
ing to the story the Bible had been used
when the late J. A. Lyons was sworn-in
by Lord Gowrie as vice-president of the
Executive Council in the Scullin Govern-
ment in 1929 ; it bore the signature of
Lord Gowrie. Sorry to be a nark, but
there’s a slip somewhere. Joe Lyons was
Postmaster-General in the Scullin Gov-
ernment ; the Executive Council post was
held by Senator J. J. Daly. The Gover-
nor-General at the time was Lord Stone-
haven ; Gowrie, then Sir Alexander
Hore-Ruthven, was Governor of South
Australia. I have no doubt that Aus-
tralia’s first woman Minister did use her
husband’s Bible and that it does contain
Lord Cowrie’s signature, but the story
needs tidying up.
The lie, propagated by the Communist-
run Seamen’s Union and repeated in
ignorance or worse by Chifley and Ash-
ley, that it is customary for the country
selling a ship to provide the crew to
deliver it to its new owners was bowled
out by the action of the late Govern-
ment and the unions in the case of the
tanker Ramsdorp, bought in Britain
by the Australian Shipping Board. A few
facts from recent maritime history:
Ngatoro: An old coastal vessel sold to
Philippines owners held up for 87 days
until the owners paid £l2OO to the maritime
unions for “permission” to ship a Filipino
crew.
Reynella: Bought by an Italian firm,
held up for months by similar tactics. By
a compromise an Australian crew at last
took her to Ceylon, and were repatriated
at considerable cost.
Corrimal: Offered for sale by the Ship-
ping Board conditional on an Australian
crew being engaged. No takers.
But with the Ramsdorp it was a different
story. The vessel has been bought in
England, but instead of engaging a British
crew to deliver her —many British sea-
men would leap at the chance of a one-
way engagement with opportunity of
settling here —“Fixer” Ashley’s Shipping
Board intended to fly an Australian crew
to Britain. There were plenty of appli-
cants for the trip, although local ships
were laid up for want of crews. Under
Red rules the seamen get it both ways,
and the late Government encouraged
them.


FIRST IN 1888
No other Battery can match • . •
P-:
*1
FIRST TODAY!
Exide’s 61 Years’ Experience
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
XA9.25
PERSONAL ITEMS
Heading Brisbane’s Royal Commission
into Golden Casket affairs, Judge Alan
Mansfield, of Queensland’s Supreme
Court; son of a judge, and member of
the board which probed Japanese atro-
cities soon after the Pacific war ended.
Investigation of those brutalities equipped
him well for his next post —chief
Australian prosecutor at the International
Military Tribunal for the Far East, which
sat in Tokio in 1946. Taking his law
degree at Sydney University, he was
admitted to the N.S.W. Bar in 1924,
shifted back to his birthplace, Brisbane,
the next year, became Lecturer in Bank-
ruptcy Law there, and went from that
to a seat on the State’s Supreme Court
—which, at 37, made him one of the
youngest to sit on that Bench.
“El V.”: If ancestral experience goes
for anything, Robert Gordon Menzies
should make an excellent Prime Minister
—the first member of the clan to hold
equivalent office became Chancellor
and Chamberlain of Scotland in 1249
(the figures “49” keep on recurring
in the Menzies genealogy). The
clan’s colors run with its motto “Up the
red and white,” though they have a
pinkish tinge due, no doubt, to Liberal-
party influence and Dedman’s pink icing.
The clan crest is highly appropriate to the
victor in the recent political battle—“a
savage’s head erased, proper,” the savage
having a distinct likeness to the lately
deposed Minister for External Territories.
It is to be hoped that there is an omen in
the fact that one of the achievements for
which the Menzieses are noted in Scot-
land is the introduction of larches into
that country. In some places, larches are
synonymous with Christmas-trees. They
would look well in Australia hung with
stockings full of tax reductions.
The memory of Monty Grover, one-
time of The Bulletin’s Melbourne staff,
is kept alive by his wife’s endowment of
the Montague Grover Memorial Prize for
the best one-acter of the year. This
year’s prize has been won by Miss Jocelyn
Perkins, for her play “Stormbird.”
Secretary of the Royal Melbourne Hospi-
tal Birthday League, she is a relative of
the Rev. Canon Jocelyn Perkins, Sacrist
of Westminster Abbey, He was the sub-
ject of a celebrated news photo of the
late war, which depicted the aged ecclesi-
astic in full canonicals being instructed
by a beefy sergeant in the workings of a
rifle under the shadows of the famous
temple.
“Macnell”: Towards the efid of 1940 there
sailed into a British port a writhing pall of
flame-shot smoke with a tanker in the middle
of it; the ship, which carried four unexploded
depth-charges, had been abandoned and left
running on its course when it was boarded by
Commander Frederick Norton Cook, D.S.C.,
R.A.N., and another officer, who brought it
safe into port. That’s a pretty fair sample of
the adventures accumulated by the man who
last week came ashore from driving destroyer
Bataan to command of Sydney’s shore depot,
H.M.A.S. Kuttabul. A Goulbura Valley (Vic.)
man who has a habit of surviving nasty actions,
Cook joined in 1919, exchanged to the R.N.
in 1938, and was in battleship Royal Oak when
she carried the body of Queen Maud from
Portsmouth to Oslo. He was still in Royal Oak
when Lieut. Prien’s torpedo blew; open her bilges
at Scapa Flow the next year. Cook was the
only Australian of the 370 who survived out
of a company of 1200, and was in the water
45 minutes without a lifebelt. Next escape was
from a railway collision in England, after
which he shipped in the anti-aircraft cruiser
Curlew, escaped countless air-attacks off
Norway, and survived what the ship did not
in the way of bombs eight miles off Narvik
in 1940. From these engaging interludes he took
on command of a commando-training school,
was in at Dunkirk, got out and went back
that way in charge of landing the commandos
who dealt with the radar-station at Bruneval.
Twice mentioned for gallantry, and presented
to the King, he came home, captained our
commando school at Port Stephens, then
shipped north as executive-officer of cruiser
Hobart, refitted after her torpedo damage. In
her he finished the war, at anchor in Tokio
Bay.
To its long list of blind musicians Vic-
toria has added Miss Dorothy Nuske, the
first blind girl in Australia to be awarded
the degree of Bachelor of Music. Her
family may make history. Brother Allan,
aged 16, with the same affliction as her-
self, recently sat for his matriculation at
Wesley College ; if he passes he will take
up music next year. Sister Joy, six and
blind also, wants to do the same. Miss
Nuske learnt to play the piano and her
music by Braille, bar by bar. She is 23.
English-born Percy Roberts, of
Noroton, Connecticut (U.S.), will see that
dogs in Sydney’s next Royal Show get
what they deserve—famous as a breeder
and judge on both sides of the Atlantic,
he’s handled canines since, at 16, he was
apprenticed to J. J. Holgate of Doncaster
(Eng.), one of the world’s greatest all-
round dog judges. Crossing to the U.S. in
1912, Roberts teamed up with the
Vickery Kennels at Barrington (111.), then
the largest variety kennels in America,
For the past 30 years he has been
running his own Revery Kennel, and his
champs have won high honors through-
out the States. Altogether he has im-
ported from England and Europe about
2000 dogs, making 35 Atlantic crossings
to fetch them. Since the war he has
judged the International Poodle Show in
London and the Sealyham Breeders’
Association of England Show. In Sydney
he will judge all breeds except cattle dogs
and kelpies.
Though Sir Gerald Festus Kelly,
elected to the presidency of the Royal
Academy in London, belongs to the
orthodox school of academicians, he is
unusual in one respect. For the last 31
years he has used his wife as model and
has painted her 49 tirries. He is now en-
gaged on “Jane 50” to celebrate his
accession to the office. “Jane 29” was
bought by the Felton Bequest in 1930 and
hangs in the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne.
J. P. Cronin, owner of the face here
depicted by Mcßeath, could never claim
with Helen of Troy that it launched a
thousand ships, but it’s helped set a few
thousand malted milks afloat. It was seen
in the vicinity of Nowra (N.S.W.)
recently, when, acting on behalf of the
company’s chairman, Cronin laid the
foundation-stone of a new Horlicks
factory there. A senior director
MAN OF MALT.
of the Australian co., he brought his
organising ability here from India when
it became necessary to step up Horlick
production for the Pacific war, and subse-
quently for an expanding Asiatic
market. Cronin got the somewhat inade-
quate factory up to three shifts a day,
six days a week ; he must have looked on
the plans for the new • buildings with .a
great deal of relief. It’ll probably be over
a year before it is producing; meantime
Cronin will keep a fatherly eye on the
business from his Melbourne office.
One of the most meritorious wins in
the Federal elections was that notched
by Bruce Graham, who, with the aid of
a skilful organiser, a livewire committee
and a band of enthusiastic volunteer
helpers—all, like the candidate himself,
young airmen—turned a 10,000-vote
deficit into a lead of over 1000 to hoist
St. George, the new N.S.W. seat, to the
Liberal standard. An R.A.A.F. pilot,
Graham (presented herewith by Prior)
“pranged” early in the Pacific war, and
spent two separate periods, totalling two
years, in hospital while doctors tried to
save his leg. His determination to resume
ST. GEORGE FOR GRAHAM.
flying prompted Graham to remark casu-
ally to the surgeons just before his second
major operation: “If I can’t fly after
you’ve had a go this time you’ll have to
admit you’ve failed.” They didn’t admit
it and he was soon flying again. Later
the leg deteriorated and he was glad to
have it off, but by his sprightly walk
you’d never suspect he had a “tin” leg.
An old Sydney Grammar boy, the school’s
champion half-miler, he later played
Rugby Union for Easts, cricket for Waver-
ley and surfed with the Tamarama dub.
“Morehead”: When The Bulletin has its
70th birthday early next year it will not have
on its payroll the old-timers it used to have—
a new pensions scheme retires the veterans
earlier. But the paper can still count 10
employees with more than 30 years’ service
and about a score more who have been with it
for over a quarter of a century. Frank Smith,
who manages the Perth office, and who helped
with the first issue of the “Woman’s Mirror,”
joined in 1905; runner-up is foreman-
compositor Ray Ormes (1907),' a great worker
for the Toe H. movement. Bob Martin (1908)
is third on the list. Fred Shettle (1909),
foreman of the publishing-room and generally
considered the nattiest dresser on the premises,
comes fourth. Managing-director H. K. Prior
came in 1910 as assistant to the Financial
Editor, went off to World War I and returned
to become manager and later to take over his
present position when his father, S. H. Prior,
The Bulletin’s fourth editor and managing-
director after William Macleod, died in 1933.
Lachlan Brown (1911) and Tommy Waddell
(1914) are two still-active stalwarts of the
machine-room. Bill Fitz Henry first climbed
The Bulletin stairs in 1917 and has served
as secretary to three editors—S. H. Prior, J. E.
Webb and the present editor, David Adams.
Leo Gocher, who has been in the process-
engraving department for 32 years, is the son
of a Manly (N.S.W.) newspaper editor who
pioneered surfing in that seaside suburb.
Another 1917 recruit is linotype operator
Gilbert Francis, once a champion sprinter.
“J.” (W.A.): There’s no better-known
figure in clerical broadcloth in Westralia
than Anglican Canon E. M. Collick, who
retires in February from 55 years of prac-
tical Christianity in this State, the last 25
years as rector of St. John’s, Fremantle.
The other 30 were served on the gold-
fields, then very much in the rip-roaring
stage, with breaks to attend the Kruger
and Kaiser wars. Schooled at King’s
College, London, the young curate had
had two years in a Hoxton diocese when,
in 1894, he saw an advertisement calling
for a priest to minister to 20,000 West-
ralian goldminers. He landed in Cool-
gardie the same year. “Minister” was
right—typhoid, drunken living, brawls,
called for more than clasped hands. From
Coolgardie he shifted camp to Menzies,
and, in 1897, to Boulder. Came the Boer
War, and he crossed with the West’s Fifth
Contingent, returned to the fields, and
when the Kaiser marched left again with
the A.I.F. Now 81, still busy as a beaver,
his wise old face exudes kindliness,
sympathy and sincerity—they wrap the
man.
Newly-appointed Victorian Consul for
Greece, with experience already in that
field as Consul-General for the N.E.I. in
1942, Eugene Gorman, K.C., was war-
time Chief Inspector of Army Administra-
tion, his job one of cutting out waste in
Army camps. He was headed for Java
as official Commonwealth representative,
but the Japs beat him there. Before that
he had toured the Middle East as Chief
Comforts Commissioner, ending up with a
spectacular escape from the country he
now represents. Admitted to the Bar in
1914, member of the V.R.C. and V.A.T.C.,
he runs his own horses and is consequently
as much at home among stableboys and
trainers as he is arguing legal points. He
went to the Kaiser’s war, won M.C.,
married a French lady and returned to
write the history of the 22nd Battalion
and to build up one of the biggest prac-
tices in Melbourne,
Doyen of Victorian journalists, Martin
Kennedy, of Ballarat, wins the Australian
Journalists’ Association’s gold badge for
distinguished service. He founded the
Ballarat Journalists’ Union, the first of its
kind in Australia, and helped to establish
its successor, the A.J.A. He’s 81.
Calling it a day after 27 years on the
Victorian Supreme Court Bench, the last
14 as senior puisne justice, knight James
Macfarlan will now confine his summing-
up to his golf-cards, his out-of-court pas-
sion. Now 77, son of a Glasgow ac-
countant, Sir James did his law at Mel-
bourne University, and two years after
admission to the Bar in 1896 became Pro-
fessor of Law in the Apple Isle’s cloisters.
He took silk the year the Kaiser took his
beating.
Gained the gold medal of the Aus-
tralian Literature Society for “outstanding
contributions to Australian literature in
the last 10 years,” Edmund Morris Miller,
Professor of Philosophy and Psychology
at the University of Tasmania. Born in
Natal in 1881, educated at Wesley and
Melbourne University, he ran away with a
heap of academic honors and occupied the
first chair in his subject in the Apple
Island. Director of the State Psycho-
logical Clinic, he’s launched a raft of
books on philosophy, psychology, politics,
literature and ethics. The medal was
presented by Vice-Chancellor Professor
Hytten, whose name cropped up a bit in
the late election fray.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Miss Ann Elizabeth McFar-
lane, one of the pioneers of boys’ care. Asso-
ciated with work for boys for 45 years, she
joined the Gordon Institute soon after it was
built as a -memorial to the humanitarianism of
General Gordon. She managed it up to June
this year.
In Brisbane, at 63, E. Lanham, Father of
Brisbane City Council; 30 years an alderman,
his experience in local government was
probably unequalled in the northern capital.
Member of almost all the Council’s standing
committees, he was chairman of its Works
Committee and of the Fire Brigade Board at
the end.
At Yarrawonga, in the Vic. Riverina, where
even in these mechanised days the Clydesdale
is a force to be reckoned with, W. G.
Wilkinson, one of Australia’s best-known
breeders and exhibitors of the draught. Judge
as well, he had officiated at shows in New
Zealand as well as in most Australian capitals.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Florence Anderson, for
years the only woman trade-union secretary in
Australia. In the union movement for 35 years,
25 of them as secretary of the Miscellaneous
Workers’ Union, she represented this body on
the T.H.C. and at several A.L.P. conferences.
In London, Captain Edward Templeton
Grayston, shortly after berthing his beloved
old vessel, Moreton Bay, sister of the famed
Jervis Bay, on her trip home from Australia.
Senior master of the Shaw Savill Line, with
choice of any of the line’s ships, he yet pre-
ferred his 26-year-old one-funneller, which he’d
skippered pretty well through all'the war-time
Seven Seas,
At 59, in Melbourne, Osbert Wadds, front-
ranker in the State motor-car industry and till
last 'year joint managing-director of Repco, Ltd.,
which firm he helped found. Hailing from
Williamstown, he was a, constant sailer with
that Bay-side suburb’s yacht club.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Niloc”: While citizens were recently
cussing and vainly trying to get within
sight of a counter in some of the city’s
big emporiums, one such firm came out
with what was possibly the year’s most
optimistic advertisement. “Try So-and-
so’s,” they urged, “The Busiest Shop in
Sydney.”
* * ♦ #
“Becks”: I learn from the cables that
a businessman in Manchester has re-
written a batch of nursery rhymes “be-
cause they are too brutal and scared the
life out of him when he was a child.”
Under his benign influence the Three
Blind Mice are kind instead of blind and
the reason they run after the farmer’s
wife is because, being kind, too, she “cut
them some cheese with a carving-knife.”
Similarly, when Jack falls down he doesn’t
break his crown at all —he merely falls
down “in his suit of brown”—and Mother
Hubbard’s cupboard, being full instead of
empty, provides her “wee dog” with a
bone. The new versions may have the
effect of exorcising their writer’s memories
of his childhood fears, but they won’t
find much acceptance among youngsters.
I’ll guarantee that to most kids the high-
light of the Three Blind Mice ballad is
the snipping off of the tails; if Jack
doesn’t “break his crown” he might just
as well jump down the well and drown
himself for all they’ll care about him.
As for Mother Hubbard, if the larder is
full the whole jingle becomes merely a
dull chronicle of everyday life which no
child would think worth recording. Argue
if you like, but my three kids are pre-
pared to back me up on this against all-
comers.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Owners aren’t usually grate-
ful when Customs discover a false bottom
in a suitcase, but a New Australian from
“Gee, Elvie! You finish the castle — I'm off for a swim!”
Greece was unfeignedly delighted when
this service was done for him in Mel-
bourne. Another man had packed his
suitcase for him and had omitted to tell
him about its double nature. It remained
undetected by Italian and Greek officials.
but an inquisitive Melbourne officer tore
the lining open and disclosed a hoard of
£lOOO Australian, a perfectly legitimate
possession. The Greek thought he had
lost it.
* * ♦ *
“Blue P.”: A mystery that puzzled a
Plymouth (Eng.) family for some weeks
has been solved. In a food parcel from
Australia was a small, sealed tin without
a label. They opened it, expecting to
find fat or meat, but all they saw was a
grey powdery mass something like fine
fowl-grit. It was tasteless and odorless
and obviously not a foodstuff. The
recipients wondered whether it might be
some Australian mineral deposit, or head-
ache powder or one of these newfangled
dehydrated things, but in the absence of
a label or mark had to give it up. They
put the tin aside with the idea of (a)
dumping it in the garbage-tin ; (h) having
it analysed ; or (c) writing to the Aus-
tralian senders. Eventually they decided
on (c). Back came an answer stating
that the sender’s grandfather was a native
of Plymouth, had expressed a wish to be
cremated and his ashes scattered on Ply-
mouth Hoe, and that the contents of
the tin were the earthly remains of Grand-
father. The old chap’s wish has been
fulfilled.
* * * *
“Clooter”: I’ve been somewhat in-
terested in a controversy between a morn-
ing-paper columnist and some readers
on the pronunciation of Jervis Bay, some
plumping for Jarvis, others for Jurvis.
People can be very parvarse about this
sort of thing and it’s no sarvice to
students of English that no authority
comes forward to make a pronouncement.
The whole thing has been rather neatly
summarised by our American cousins in a
ditty which goes, “You say tomarto, I
say tomayto ; let’s call the whole thing
off.” Maybe it should be called off at
once, since the paper concerned has obvi-
ously been affected. In the issue which
carried the Jervis-Jarvis dispute, it re-
ferred to the Von Manstein verdict thus:
“If the victors are to nourish the still
weak germ of Garmon democracy ”
But I mustn’t continue. There’s a traffic
cop eyeing my car, perked near the karb.
#*, * *
“Cuchulain”: Touching the pounds (B.
7/12/’49). In my schooldays I wrote
lbs. for more than one; nowadays the
youngsters are taught to use lb./what-
ever the number. This encourages people
to drop the “s” in speaking. I notice
the C.S.R. still sticks to “21bs. net” on
golden-syrup tins. Another change in
the last few years is the £ sign—the State
schools allow only one stroke through the
£ now. Labor-saving, no doubt.
* * * *
“Plop”: The Commandant of Britain’s
Army Catering Corps has described as
“something at which to marvel” a display
of fancy tucker recently prepared at the
A.C.C.’s training centre, Aldershot, add-
ing the rider that “the school is a reposi-
tory of skills which cannot greatly be
exercised in present days of scarcity.”
But such skills! I wonder what old
Bluey Peters, an A.I.F. cook who usually
managed one cigarette-butt to every dish
of his apple-pie, would think of these
English babs who turned on at their ex-
hibition baskets of flowers moulded in
sugar, fruits of blown sugar, and pressed-
beef decorated to represent a chessboard,
or how his assistant, Arthur “The Gila
Monster,” who could open a tin of beans
in two seconds and who used to refer to
tinned tomato-juice as “blood,” would
react to the sight of “a dartboard corn-
posed of fillets of sole.” As I remember
them and their greasy old singlets, the
pair would probably look at each other,
turn ' about, and spit their contempt
through the grate of their camp-oven.
“Pitt St.”: The habit of tipping the
beer dispensers vmale and female) in
Sydney bars, which became rampant dur-
ing the war, has settled down now to
what appears likely to become an iron-
bound custom. All copper coins in the
change are now left on the bar-counter,
and by the end of the day the barmen
and barmaids have a respectable heap of
coppers to whack up. Who began it and
why it should have become so prevalent
is a mystery, and it is certain that many
men leave the coppers there rather than
face the stares of their companions and
other drinkers should they pick them up.
The same men—l’ve watched them—
would no more think of leaving pennies
“Suppose he’s too ill to see anyone. Sister?”
and ha’pennies on the milk-bar counter
than of leaving them on a coffee-shop
table. Yet, generally speaking, both milk-
bars and coffee-shops provide a far better
service than the average beer-house.
* * He
“Craiser”: It took a war to shake Mel-
bourne’s inveterate Englishness sufficiently
for the leading emporium in the city to
instal a translation bureau for foreign
lingoes, Malay, Javanese and Dutch be-
ing among the languages listed. . The
wave of New Australians has - compelled
it to revive the institution, and now it has
a bureau where the ribbon counter can bp
asked for in “all languages,” Greek and
Maltese to Arabic and Hindustani. Mrs.
Dorothy Lacquer, the lady in charge,
learnt half a dozen of them while work-
ing among migrants at Bathurst (N.S.W.).
* * * *
“Norther”: A man needs all his philo-
sophy to withstand the kind of shock
suffered by a North Queensland man
whose 10-year-old son was paddling in
2ft. of water on a beach, was stung by
a sea-wasp and died in a few minutes.
The thing was a big jellyfish armed with
poisonous tentacles which, apparently, it
wraps about its prey. The boy screamed
“Shark!” when he felt it about his legs,
the father rushed into the water and
beat it off, but the damage was done.
These creatures are rare visitors to our
shores, and it seems that Fate was being
particularly unkind and wanton that it
should come from the far oceans at
that particular spot and moment in time.
* * * *
“Narsty Norm”: “B. A. Ker” (B.
7/12/’49) is a bit hard on the Miss Aus-
tralia quest; seemingly he thinks such
contests are without merit. Of course,
there are numerous beach-girl and other
quests that cloud the issue during the
year, but as all these girls do a grand
job of raising funds for charity, what
mere male has the right to cry “Shame! ”
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: I see that the Hollywood
film “Everybody Does It” has bitterly
offended bur new allies, the Moslems of
Pakistan In the film Linda Darnell plays
the role of Fatima, daughter of
Mohammed, who married Caliph Ali and
had three sons, Al-Husun, Al-Husein and
Al-Muhsin. From that marriage stemmed
the great schism which produced the two
sects into which the Moslem world is
divided —the Sunnites and Shiites. The
Sunnites accept the Koran and also six
other books the Shiites regard as
apochryphal, and the Shiites maintain that
the first three caliphs were not validly
elected, and that the succession belongs
by divine right to Ali, cousin and son-in-
law of the Prophet. Whenever one sect
holds a procession the other busts it up
and vice versa, and one of the occasions
is the anniversary of the assassination of
Ali. Hence Fatima is as sacred a name in
the Moslem world as Mary is in the
Christian, and millions of Moslem girls
rejoice in the appellation. Dawn, a
semi-official paper published in
said of the picture: “The filming of the
life of a personage embodying the ideal
of Moslem womanhood positively out-
rages the Moslem mind, and what adds to
the profanity of the film is the ? false,
flippant and vulgar view of Fatima s lire,
taken by the actress in her impressions,
published in a British newspaper. For
Hollywood to attempt to tamper with this
holy symbol indicates either great courage
or great ignorance, but I suppose if the
Pakistani set out to depict the hte ot tne
Virgin Mary, even with the best inten-
tions, they would do no better.
w * ♦ *
“Bo”: The purlieus of our suburban
hostelry are edified on late-afternoons by
a sight of beautiful motherhood. Yclept
Bawling Bessie, a title bestowed upon her
because of her gentle method of indulging
in polemics, she is wont to balance her
small offspring with the aid of one hand
on a forbidding hip while with the other
she does with a full schooner of beer
what the brewers intended. But let it not
be thought that she shares not with her
less spectacular sisters in motherhood that
celebrated maternal attribute of self-
sacrifice, though it must be admitted that
the infant is allowed to mop up only that
proportion of the “suds” in keeping with
its naturally smaller thirst. A homing
citizen, full of rectitude, revolted at the
spectacle and expressed indignation that a
mother could be so debased as to treat
her child like that. At this gross injustice
to her sense of fair play our matron
shrilly protested. “Whaddaya bellyachin’
about?” she howled. “Do y’ think his
own mother ’d dish her kid out of his
whack?”
* * * ♦
“Farback”: Not only plane-pilots and
car-conductors feel uncomfortable when
the job is made too easy for them (B.
16/11/’49). In the days of the Great
Blackout locomotives on northern S.A.
lines were hastily converted to burn oil.
The engines have since returned to a
steady diet of black diamonds, and on a
blazing afternoon I ventured to sympa-
thise with a fireman who had just finished
a steady bout of shovelling in front of
a red-hot fire-door on a three-mile up-
grade. “Suppose you wish we had an-
other coal strike?” I asked. “No, they
can keep their flamin’ oil,” he answered.
“It’s easy enough, but it’s too blanky
monotonous. Man spends most of his
time just sittin’ on the seat.”
* * * ♦
“Hamer”: The joke about the couple
who came after “the shilling you cut
Mary off with” (B. 14/12/’49) reminds
me of the occasion on which a reprobate
friend of my young days asked me to go
with him to the registered-letter delivery-
counter of the Sydney G.P.O. to collect
a packet which he had been advised could
be a copy of the last will and testament
of his dad, recently dead in England. It
was a massive document, and about two
sheets of it were devoted to a scathing
history of my friend’s misdeeds, leading
up to the pronouncement that he was left
“the sum of one shilling.” A British
postal-note for the bob was enclosed.;
My friend was not depressed. “Anyway
we’ve got the bob —that’s four beers,
he said. “Let’s go and have ’em.” The
four mugs then obtainable for a bob
started a spree which lasted two days.
DECEMBER 31.
Said 1949,
A soured old man and shifty,
“If I’d my life again
I’d rather be 1950.
“How virtuous I’d be:
No coupons to forge and utter,
No more blackmarket tea
Or under-the-counter butter.
“I’d boost production with
Added spiritual power
By trading-in my scythe
For a petrol-driven mower.
“Alas, with wasted rage
I pounded the medical portal,
When under Dr. Page
I might have become immortal!”
This was the last he said.
The doctors made inspection,
Remarking, “Now he’s dead
We’ll use him for dissection.”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Kelms”: As I write Perth’s R.S.P.C.A.,
its Fire Brigade and its evening daily are
baffled in an attempt to rescue a cat which
is perched high up in a pine-tree in
Supreme Court Gardens. The Fire
Brigade retired when it discovered that
its equipment was too heavy to be taken
into the gardens, and attempts to climb
the tree were abandoned when some
nesting magpies attacked. The cat is
obviously terrified, and, as it’s 70ft. up,
amongst the thinner foliage, I’d say it
would be an easy mark for the birds. But
they either don’t recognise it as a foe,
or they’re keeping it aloft in a refinement
of cruelty that is almost civilised. An
appeal has gone forth for “an expert
treeman, equipped 'with thick clothes,
head protection and probably an axe.”
At that he wouldn’t have it all his own
way, and unless the tree can be scaled in
darkness I’d say the cat is doomed. It
has already spent one night aloft, so obvi-
ously its nerve has gone. That’s a
common occurrence with calls. Born
climbers, and with their body-weight dis-
tributed so that they fall on their feet,
they still can’t stand heights
* * * *
“Euroclydon”: The psychology of
clothes? When we were young we had
no idea that there could possibly be any
more of the Mater than her face, her long
dress and a voice to be obeyed. She was
clad—in fact, upholstered—from ears to
ankles, and she allowed no such word as
damn in a house sanctified by her
presence. One word from her and we
did as we were told. Was it surprising?
Now Materfamilias wears slacks and
shorts at home, and out on the beach she
is barely clad in the briefest floral napkin
and bras. She smokes and spots and puts
“Calm yourself , Cedric— people of OUR station NEVER go there!”
on the lipstick in public, while using the
oreat Australian adjective with a quondam
male freedom. One word from her—and
the kids do as they like. Is that sur-
—ising?
p * * * •
“Sackfair”* All the old court records
weren’t taken to Long Bay jail for safe-
keeping (B. 30/11/’49). Until 1944
whole stacks of them were kept in
the garret of a little stone building which
faces Queen’s-square between the old
Mint building and the Lands office. I
assisted in the moving of those records
to a building adjacent to the Mint. Walk-
ing into that storeroom for toe first time
was like entering an ancient Egyptian
tomb. There were police exhibits from
trials before I was born: Exhibit B (an
old diary); exhibits C and D, two articles
of feminine apparel, were labelled
“1907.” And so on —each dust-coated
exhibit mute evidence of a long-
forgotten drama. But the records were
the attractions that made me ashamed
to hold my out on pay-day. I
couldn’t leave them alone. Between loads
I thumbed over scores of folios, lapping
up the neat handwriting penned—or
quilled—more than 100 years before:
Fourteen years’ hard labor for steal- _
ing from an ageing house and causing
men to fear.
For shooting a cow Ten years’
hard labor.
For carrying a firearm at night....
Fifteen years’ hard labor in a T.S.
Savage indeed ; but I like to
think on what those old Beaks would have
done to some of Sydney’s current bash-
artists.
* ♦ * *
The resignation of J. R. Sut-
cliffe from the headmastership of Mel-
bourne Grammar to start business as a
stockbroker (B. 14/12/’49) reminds me
of a mathematics master I once had. He
was a Senior Wrangler of Cambridge and
a gentle creature who knew so much
about the higher mathematics that he was
quite incapable of imparting even the
simplest proposition to his pupils. He
would whizz round to the blackboard,
work out the problem in one step and
present us with the answer, and was
always astonished when he found we
hadn’t grasped it. He was also sublimely
oblivious of the fact that everybody in
the class, except one boy who did know
something about the subject, cheated.
The boy who knew was a generous soul
who promptly passed on his solutions;
we had manufactured a code which
was almost as complicated and as in-
genious as the Differential Calculus by
which these were transmitted from the top
of the class to the bottom. The tutor’s
astonishment was great when we all failed
in the final examinations; the bright boy
was away with measles. Our astonishment
was also great when we learnt next term
that our gentle teacher had become a
member of the Stock Exchange of
Adelaide. Nobody imagined he would
survive in that hurlyburly, but he did
and made a fortune.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The nation’s most con-
sistent theatregoer has turned up in Mel-
bourne —an 18-year-old youth who con-
fesses to having seen “Oklahoma!” 45
times, “Annie Get Your Gun” 35 times
and has just completed his 42nd consecu-
tive dose of “Hellzapoppin.” He has
booked a nightly seat to see that bromide
for the rest of the season. I suspect he
is a graduate of one of these schools for
teaching art appreciation.
* * * *
“Flathead”: With the shortage of
bottled beer in Sydney just as acute, just
as mysterious as it was 12 months ago,
certain cunningness is being displayed by
folk who intend to be festive anyway. In
one city pub I saw a gent, order four
pints of beer, open up his suitcase, and
with a rubber tube start to syphon the
brew into two quart bottles. There was
additional kit in his bag—crown seals and
wooden mallet for applying them—and
he seemed to be .a man who knew his
subject. Yet he was a tyro in the eyes of
another near by who watched with interest
and at last chipped in: “Excuse me, but
you ought to put the tube right to the’
bottom of the bottle, or you’ll get a hell
of a collar and will have to top off
with another schooner. You should have
seen the bottles were freshly chilled;
they liberate less gas. Better still is the
‘bike-pump’ method. You pour the beer
straight from the glasses into open-
mouthed jars, take them home, place a
raisin in each, and let them stand until
you feel the need. Then you put the
tube of a bike-pump into each jar, give
a few vigorous pumps, and the beer will
be given a collar two inches thick which
will stick to your glass just as if it had
come from a fresh keg. Sorry for butting
in. Just couldn’t stand it.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: Premier Hollway made the
surprise announcement the other day that
£20,000 would be allocated by the Gov-
ernment to build an art gallery and library
“Come on —strip poker!”
at Mildura, the local council contributing
another £20,000. Some ancient history is
attached. At the height of his political
activities Senator R. C. D. Elliott went
to England to contact Lord Beaverbrook,
then the protagonist'of a great movement
to make the Empire self-contained. There
Elliott met the painter Orpen, at the
height of his fame and painting portraits
of American millionaires at £3OOO a sitting.
He put Elliott into circulation in London
artistic circles and even presented him
with a picture. After returning to Mel-
bourne Elliott began to buy Orpens, and
soon had the largest collection in the
Southern Hemisphere. No mention was
ever made of Elliott, the politician, with-
out a reference to Elliott, the connoisseur
of painting. Orpen died and, as with
most fashionable reputations, his credit
slumped, and today at Christie’s he
arouses little interest. In the meantime the
Elliott Orpens, along with other pictures,
had been presented to the Mildura
Council. They are there still, and the
new gallery will largely be built around
them.
* * * *F
“Sackville”: Standing in a compara-
tively long-distance train I had exhausted
my reading-matter and was obliged to
fall back on a woman’s paper. An
article in it (written by a man, too) was
easily the most nauseating piece of crawl-
ing to the modern ’teenager that I’ve ever
read. The modern girl, it seems, is
emancipated ; she demands —quite rightly
—more from her boy-friends than her
mother dared to demand. Gone are the
days when the male pushed the female
into the background. The modern girl
is enlightened, educated, intelligent.
Where her mother was prepared to endure
the kind of treatment men meted out to
women in those days, she asserts her
rights and demands her privileges. And
so on. At that stage I began to take
stock of two modern examples of
feminine advancement. They were sit-
ting on the arms of two seats —where
they had been sitting for an hour and a
half. I suppose that they were too edu-
cated, enlightened and intelligent to expect
their boy-friends—who were comfort-
ably parked in the seats —to treat them
as ladies, or even cobbers. Imagine their
down-trodden, thwarted, broken-spirited
mothers swallowing an insult like that!
♦ * ♦ *
“H.A.L.”: Ever see “money-spinner”
beer-mugs in action? They were made
of thick, amber-colored glass, ornamented
on the outside with a raised design of
hop-plant leaves and tendrils, blown in
glass. To win money by the aid of one
of those beer-pots, locals would wait until
a stranger entered the bar, then start an
argument as to how much beer a man
could drink without pausing for breath ;
one man would maintain that the shape
of the glass had something to do with it.
When the stranger was drawn into the
controversy, BUng would be called upon
to adjudicate. He would back up the
“shape of the glass” theory, and would
end by placing a “money-spinner” beer-
mug on the counter. “There,” he would
say. “That looks as if it only holds a pint,
eh? Well, I’ve never yet seen a man
empty that thing without pausing. I’ll
make you a present df the beer in it if
you can empty it without lowering it.”
That offer usually made the stranger rise
to the bait, bets would be laid, the glass
pot would be filled with beer, the stranger
would tip it up, then bang it down on
the bar with a curse as a flood of beer
poured down the front of his shirt. Under
those ornamentations on the outside, and
hidden on the inside by an overhanging
rim, were scores of tiny holes in the glass,
all leading up to just below the rim.
* * ♦ *
“Mozzer”: I took my Territorian mate
along to see the fifth-hand car I pro-
posed to buy. The price would take
every bean I had, so I hesitated, “Take
it,” said my mate. “But tools!” 1
objected. “Tve got to keep a few bob
for them.” “Huh!” the crocodile-hunter
skid scornfully. “You don’t need tools
down here. Every motorist on the road
has a bunch of tools you could borrow.
It’s different up there where you could
perish before another car came along.”
“Well, I must keep out enough to buy a
puncture outfit,” I said'. “Punctures?”
he yelled at me, “Where will you get
punctures on these roads?” “A grease-
I persisted. “A grease-
gun!” he scoffed. “That’s a city luxury.
All you got to do is unscrew the grease-
nipple with the pliers and press grease in
with your finger.” So I gave in. Next
day I ran down the road to get some
petrol and broke a back axle. And while
hailing motorists, vainly seeking a lend of
some tools, I watched the front tyre go
down with a big nail in it. A near-by
mechanical trench-digger had only a
hammer in its tool-kit. Three car-drivers
who stopped at my waving had not a
tool among them. The next was too
posh and in too much of a hurry to stop.
The one after that pulled up with a
threatening frown on his face, so I did
not have the nerve to ask for his tools.
Instead I asked him to drop me off at
the nearest garage. They arranged to
tow the bus in, and I left it there till I
could find my mate and borrow a tenner
off him to pay the bill.
CAUSE FOR GRATITUDE.
“According to a psychologist, red-headed girls
are generally less talkative and less excitable and
are better tempered than blondes or brunettes.”
How sadly off the beam were they who blindly
Embraced the old belief that girls whose hair
They classified as “carrots”
Yapped as volubly as parrots.
Why! For this there’s no foundation what-
soe’er.
You’ll strike, no doubt, an odd one who can
chatter,
Whose vocal chords are tough as any twine;
But you’ll find this predilection
Has no possible connection
With her crowning glory’s being incarnadine.
And here’s a fallacy that’s long been nourished
(A stigma that was easy to attach);
That for “flying off the handle”
None could ever hold a candle
To the damsel who possessed a fiery thatch.
It’s utterly bereft, of course, of logic;
Its origin it’s possible to guess:
It had its germination
In idea-association
That the fire must spread to temper from
the tress.
Ah, well! It’s good that vindication cometh,
That justice has been done, though long
delayed,
To the lass whose locks imprison
Tints that range from rays of risen
Sun to something like a deep-tomato shade.
But certainly we find it gratifying
(The men, I mean) that redheads still retain
That self-same pertinacity,
Vivacity, audacity—
And may the dears for ever so remain!
N.S.W.
S.W.K.
A STRAW.
“A lung specialist said it was psychology ana not
the tobacco in the cigarettes that was soothing. We
could be equally soothed by a straw if we made up
our minds about it.”
Now you psychologists who smoke,
And think tobacco soothes a bloke,
And love your cigarette—
Why, you can get
As much to draw
From straw.
So, citizen, when you’ve been hurt.
Been knocked and flattened in the dirt,
A fag’s no help to you—
What you should do
Is calmly gnaw
A straw.
And you, whom hot words with the wife
Convince that there’s not much in hte,
A cig. won’t help you, though
You may think so —
Clamp in your jaw
A straw.
And those who smoke continuously,
And keep it up like ships at sea
Chain-smoking, bah!
Why go so far?
Just chaw and chaw
A straw.
And when you hear the cadger say,
In his ingratiating way,
“Y’ got a gasper, please?”
Craving appease—
Place in his paw
A straw.
VICTORIA.
HAGKO.


ABORIGINALITIES
SOMETIMES AT SEA.
Sometimes at sea,
When prowling on the deck, you feel
More than wet across the face,
And hear above the wind’s grey squeal
Incredible tones
As of a wraith who wants again
The good rough planks, the smoking coals,
The wit of sailormen.
Sometimes in fog
Or with a twilight on the sky
And silence, or the woe of gulls
That howl like cats as they go by,
You seem to sense
A quiver like a kind of breath
Exhaled through ribs and hollowness—
So might a man revolt from death . . .
Eastward, and tense
With boredom, sweat, deliberate heat,
You hear against the long, blue lull
Your own heart and another beat;
Some salt-burned ghost
Lies in the bunk and listens too
For heartbeats jammed by heat and fear,
For hiss of squall on oily blue.
Algiers, bone-white,
And Lombok blistering on sapphire,
Bengal and Suez rank and sweet —
Here haunts, inhuman, death’s desire . . .
Hard men that sail
Toward the north will know those hours
When gales and crystal veils of ice
Shall seem less chill than other Powers;
When Bering glooms
And ships sound out their bleak despair—
Then shadow makes at dripping helm
With substance an uneasy pair . . .
The docks are old
With trash of phantoms men have known,
With ash of discards, dust of strays
Along the snaky hawsers blown;
A fall of chain
Down into caverns of the hold
Is tangled with the cries of fools
That drowned among lush bars of gold;
The great sea took
Its claim in gold; and flesh; and hair;
Yet the imponderable things
Come up again, are everywhere . . .
And in the galley sometimes met
Amid the grease and oaths and steam
A boy as hungry as a shark,
Staring out of Davy’s dream . . .
The hurricane
Itself shall muffle not the lips
That somehow voice eternal plaint
Around hag-ridden ships.
N - z - Paula Hanger.
* * *
“Old-timer”: When we were very
young in a Victorian Mallee village, cele-
bration of the New Year’s advent took
the form of a huge community bonfire
on the local common, at which Doc.
Wilson invariably appeared with a shot-
gun and, as the first strokes of midnight
fell, he fired 12 shots at the uncaring
stars. Don’t know how long it had been
going on before we arrived there, but
it didn’t survive Delaney’s devilment. On
what became Doc.’s last performance
Del. was hidden behind a clump of scrub
some 20 yards away, safe in the darkness
made blacker by the perimeter of the
fire-light. At Doc.’s first shot something
thudded to the ground among the
watchers—a defunct owl. This caused
excitement. Doc. fired again. Down
came a dead cat. This caused suspicion.
Doc. fired his third, and down from the
heavens plunged a white enamelled utensil
which was quickly identified as having
come from a bedroom of the local pub.
This caused hilarity, indignation and a
search-party to plunge into the darkness.
It found a small boy, which it captured,
and returned to hear Doc. swearing that
never again would he join in with such
ah unprincipled mob to welcome a new
year. As far as I know he never did.
“Mat’s Mate”: “One noo year,” Mat
said, “I’m in a little place called Cookar-
dinia, out from Wagga, an’ we get pretty
merry. There’s a lot o’ beer about, an’
singin’, an’ a fight or two, an’ we go
roun’ the town singin’ an’ gettin’ up t’
various jokes—you know the kind, they
seem dam’ funny when y’re playin’ ’em
but later on y’ wonder what was funny
about it —an’ midnight comes an’ every-
body let out a howl an’ that was about
the end of it. Me, I go lookin’ for a
bunk in the pub, but she’s full up. I
wander round for a bit an’ presently I
find a place with a door open, so in I go
an’ dump me nap on the floor; looked
like a hall or somethin’. In the momin’
I’m sleepin’ away when a bloke starts
shakin’ me an’ when I open me eyes,
blime, I’m in a church. ‘Come on,’ the
bloke says. ‘Get up an’ clear out, will
y’, mate? We got f decorate the church.’
‘What for?’ I says. ‘There’s a weddin’,’
he says. I gets out an’ gets me gear
together, thinkin’ it over. I takes another
look at the bloke an’ he’s a bit bleary,
so I says, ‘Noo Year mornin’ seems a
funny time t’ get married.’ He looks at
me slow like, then he says, ‘Blime, is
this Noo Year mornin’?’ ‘Too right,’
says me. ‘Cripes,’ he says, in a fright-
ened sort o’ voice. ‘I must ha’ bin on
it last night. I was married yesterday
mornin’.’ He holds his head for a bit.
Then, ‘Cnpes,’ he says. ‘I wonder where
me wife is?’ T wouldn’t know, mate,’ I
says. ‘But don’t you worry. She’ll find
yV An’ by cripes she did. She come
stormin’ in that very minute.” Mat
paused. “Well?” X asked. He looked
at me and made a slow motion with a
hand. “That’s drawin’ a merciful curtain
over the rest,” he said.
;** * *
“Strike”: Slogger, whose hands were
so rough they wore out mattock-handles
(B. 23 /II / ’49), recalls a driver who came
out to a Victorian foundry from England
back in the ’eighties with a big steam-
hammer. After years of pounding in
the Cabbage State the hammer came
West, the driver still with it. Eventually,
after 50 years of thumping, he and the
hammer went out of commission. As
a memento he begged the control-
handle from his old boss. Now it hangs
on his wall, the grip of it showing the
clutch of thumb and fingers just as
though they had been stamped in, worn
by his soft sweaty hand into the tough
steel.
* * ♦ ♦
“Boree”: The recent elections aroused
in old Bob a sudden and intensive interest
in politics, so when a well-known politician
whose praises Bob had been singing came
to speak in support of the local candidate
Bob promptly harnessed up the mare and
drove in to town. On his return we were
surprised to find that his interest in politics
had expired completely. Probings elicited
the fact that Bob was disgusted to find
that his political hero was “insincere,”
Taxed further, he explained: “Well, I
was standing there after the meeting when
he come up and shook hands with
Fogarty from out at the Four Mile, and
said he was pleased to meet him. Now
I put it to you, Charlie, could any man
possibly be pleased to meet that chiselling
old blankard?”
* * * *
“Zake”: In those outer-suburban areas
where the horse is still occasionally used
in preference to the truck I have observed,
now that midsummer approaches, that
the time-honored practice of decorating
the moke’s cranium with a hat of ancient
vintage in the driver’s fond belief that the
alleged cady will protect his friend from
sunstroke is still pursued. Sometimes the
topknot looks like a doyley and would
have about as much sun-evading effect.
Again, it may look like something
that Haile Selassie might have worn at
his crowning. In either case it serves but
two purposes: to annoy and irritate the
moke and to make him even hotter than
he would be without it, for the head-
covering has the effect of preventing the
perspiration’s evaporation and thus block-
ing radiation.
* * * ♦
“H.A.L.”: In the mere pounamu, or
short club made from nephrite (green-
stone), the Maori had the most remarkable
weapon ever made by stone-age man.
Shaped like an elongated tear-drop and
"If he'd have started at the OTHER end, Madame, it could have
been serious!”
measuring from lOin. to 15in. in length,
up to Sin. across the broadest part and
weighing from three to five pounds, it
took the spare-time work of years to
make one. The stone from which it was
made is found only in the beds of a few
rivers on the west coast of the South
Island, and to obtain this precious sub-
stance, known to them as “Pounamu,”
the north island Maori had to go to the
south in canoes and then make an ardu-
ous trip through the passes of the Alps.
Harder than a steel-file, this rock cannot
be split «and then chipped into shape as
can flint and other stones which cleave
and can then be chipped by flaking; to
get a thin slab off a boulder involved
sawing with wooden slats, using sharp
sand and water as an abrasive. Then
followed the patient rubbing into shape,
using blocks of sandstone. After a hole
had been drilled in the iiandle for a
thong to fasten it to the 'owner’s wrist,
the club was polished to a glassy smooth-
ness. When used, it was not swung like
“Mind filling-in your trench a minute and letting us through?”
an ordinary club, but was thrust with a
swing of the arm to strike with the sharp
front edge. Some of those owned by
chiefs were given personal names and
were handed down from father to son as
precious heirlooms; a few acquired
long histories which included the battles
in which they had been used and the
names of the famous fighting men they
had slain. At one time they could be
taken out of the country as curios. Now-
adays the Government bans their export.
The best specimen I’ve ever seen is the
one which the South Australian Museum
keeps locked away in a strongroom; it
is the one which Maori chiefs presented
to Sir George Grey as a mark of respect.
“Kelms”: When a Bathurst (N.S.W.)
butcher dressed a bullock in 7min. Isec.,
some of the resultant publicity drifted
across the Nullarbor and put Westralian
slaughtermen on their mettle. One of
them did the job in 4min. 40sec., pro-
ducing a perfect skin. His mates claim it
as a record. Is it?
* ♦ ♦ *
“GToper”: AH right. I’ll let “Old
Carp” have it—in New South, anyway
(B. 30 /11 / ’49); but as a kid in Victoria,
offsiding for an uncle, I drove thousands
of ewebank nails home; and that was in
Government work schools, police-
stations, etc. —the architects having
specified ewebanks ; holding, rightly, that
those cut nails held a floor better, didn’t
work up as did the newfangled wire-nails ;
and how these work up, unless punched
half-way through, only those who have
modern jarrah floors know. As for his
quibbling difference in my description of
the pre-Nettlefold screw, I merely said
that that screw was like a modern coach-
screw, and so it was and is. Nettlefold
invented the tapered screw, induced a
Birmingham screw-maker, one Chamber-
lain, to take it up alii so laid the founda-*
tions of the Chamberlain fortune. Up
to about 1914 hundreds of cases of the
old-time screws were still in the Chamber-
lain stores at Birmingham. Probably
they went into the steel furnaces during
the First World disturbance. Those
screws were just like the nutted screws
used nowadays by the stovemaker.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Funny how some blokes get
a fad for a particular-colored nag. Damn
silly, if you ask me. There’s old Pete.
Just because the moke Pete wore out over
20 years was black, nothing will do him
but another black nag. Knew another
cove that wouldn’t ride anything but a
chestnut. But the worst of the lot is the
craze the coves round here have got for
piebalds. A breeder a few miles down
occasionally has one, though the price
offered is always pretty high. Rode in
on the breeder last week, and found him
offering young Watson his choice between
a piebald and a likely-looking brown. “If
it’s a hack you’re after, you won’t better
the brown,” advised the owner helpfully.
“Well bred, that thing. Plenty of pace,
and easy to ride.” The youth’s eyes came
back wistfully to the pie, He took in
the heavier legs and the lazy eye, and
looked at me inquiringly. “Yes, he’s
right,” I nodded, “The brown’s a far
better nag, and the same money. Easily
the best buy.” It was no good. The
silly cow took the mixture, and I still
haven’t got the color I’ve been after for
months.
* * * *
“Metax”; Number among the shearers
who don’t like to dawdle D. J. Murray,
a Boer-war veteran of 72, who has been
averaging 100 sheep a day this season in
Tasmania, and who has also broken his
own record by depriving 123 woollies of
their topcoats in an eight-hour stretch.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: X can vouch for a
white filly got by a black stallion (B,
23/10/’49). It was pure white, without a
streak of color in it, and it was called
Jet, when it was born, on account of
the pure-black coat it possessed. It was
some months old when it started to
change color, the transformation being
complete before it was fully grown. This
is somewhat different from a white foal
being got by a black stallion, and will
be explained, I suppose, by some defect
in the pigment-producing mechanism.
But few students of Mendel’s Law, see-
ing the pure-white filly, would have
accepted her parentage. I was never free
of arguments until I changed her name.
* * * *
“Geordie”: The Coal Board has
bought some giant walking excavators for
use on the Lidsdale (N.S.W.) opencuts.
Their size may be gauged from the fact
that a single scoop weighs some 20,0001 b.
and could easily garage the biggest car.
The haulage of these unassembled
monsters over the treacherous mountain
grades has been a real He-man job calling
for exceptional driving skill, nerve and
endurance. Recently a 32-wheel Mack,
roaring like the old Southern Cross, its
rugged chassis bent under its 50,0001 b,
load, pulled into Lithgow, and out
hopped the driver, not a gorilla-like
heavyweight in moleskins and khaki, but
a natty little cove in check shirt, velvet
trousers and suede shoes, who, unabashed
by the astonished glances of the mob,
daintily combed out a fierce little
moustache and made a beeline foe the
milk-barl


“Solitude”: Quite often Christmas
slinks in and out again without
Seventyfiver waking up it’s around, but
this year he happened to be in the town-
ship just before it arrived. He mopped
up a few long-range sniffs from kitchen
doorways he passed, and gave old Bob a
hand to drag in a branch of wild cherry
for a Christmas-tree. Then he mooched
over to the store. He watched the locals
loading themselves with gift parcels,
listened-in to the joking and laughter, and
waited while Ted Munro selected a bright
scarf for his missus. “She’ll be mighty
pleased with that, all right,” chuckled
Ted. “And I’ll take some of those
sweets, thanks, and a couple of those
fancy boxes there.” He departed, and
Seventyfiver collected his half-pound of
tea and his tin of syrup. Presently he
wandered out, stared thoughtfully at a
crate of turkeys, then, suddenly making
up his mind, he re-entered the store.
Half-a-dozen times next day I surprised
a grin on his mug, but got no inkling of
its cause till I dropped into the hut on
Christmas morning. And I’ll wager that
Seventyfiver enjoyed the event as much
as old Blue, who was sporting a brand-
new collar; and staring unbelievably at
a whole pound of rump the old bloke had
laid out for him on the floor.
H= * * *
“Salmon Gums”: “Nasty Norm’s”
comments on Victorians’ frigidity will
be endorsed by many ex-servicemen ; yet
the Cabbage-patch inhabitants aren’t
deliberately unfriendly. Their aloofness
springs from the knowledge that their
capital is the centre of culture in Aus-
tralia, and that what Victoria thinks
today the rest of the Continent will think
when its educational standards are raised
sufficiently. Nor are all Victorians un-
friendly—in the war-time servicemen’s
clubs the national reserve disappeared
completely, and soldiers from all States,
with the possible exception of N.S.W.,
were regarded as friendly nationals. Not
everyone finds Victoria unfriendly. One
chap told me that the State produced the
greatest horses, finest cricketers and foot-
ballers, the biggest trees and the best
city in Australia. He should have known.
He’d been born in Victoria, and had
lived there all his life.
* * * *
“Ida D.”: In discussing the pronunci-
ation of abo, place-names (B. 7/12/’49)
“J.J.H.” doesn’t give an adequate ex-
planation of why names with identical
letter-endings are pronounced so differ-
ently. The reason is to be found in the
abo. dialects. Many tribes, living in
neighboring “towris,” could barely under-
stand each other. It will be noted that
words ending in “i” pronounced as “ee”
are to be found in the same district, or
towri, but in a different area when the
“i” is pronounced “eye.” Place-name
endings nearly always give the key-mean-
“May I cut in ?”
ing of the word. In the western districts
the ending “bri” has to do with water:
Narrabri, “the place where the river
divides” ; Collarenebri, the place of the
water-flower ; (magnificent trees of the
flowering-gum grew along the banks of
the Barwon). On Monaro “tong” and
“bong” relate to water, and in the south-
western districts of W.A. the water-ending
is “up.” It is really only the pioneers
who worked with the native tribes who
could give the proper intonation to a
place-name. The late Peter Lyons, of
Collarenebri, and R. W. Dawson, of
Monaro, could speak quite comfortably
to black brother in their respective dis-
tricts, and I have heard my father
chatting to Tongei, a “wild black,” the
survivor of a coastal tribe, who, in
summer, hunted in the tableland forests.
Tongei made a fine set of abo. weapons,
which were given to the little museum of
Pipeclay Springs Public School, later
burnt down. Monaro was originally
Man-er-00, and W. Davis Wright (whose
sister was the first white child born in
the Queanbeyan district) gives Kam-berri
(the first syllable short, the second
accented) as the correct pronunciation of
Canberra. I doubt if Rouehel and
Segenhoe are abo. words —they have no
connection with any native names. Old
surveyors’ and Lands Department maps
are cluttered with French and Indian
names, especially in south-western
Queensland-
* * * * .
“Bo”: For two days the rain had been
pelting down in sheets and thundering on
the iron roof so as to make speech almost
impossible, and the creeks were running
bankers. Late that afternoon, with all
the signs pointing to its being well set
in, Minogue summoned all his available
lung-power to bellow into the new hand’s
ear to proceed with a couple of kero.-
tins to the paddock on a slight rise
about half a mile along the creek where
the two house cows were. They were in
no immediate danger, and he was merely
to do some teat-massaging, with the dual
object of relieving both the kine and the
now-urgent shortage of milk for the
household. A couple of hours later the
hand staggered back with the tins running
over with a pale-looking fluid that bore
but a faint resemblance to milk.
Minogue took a sip of it from a cup,
then made candid comment on the half-
wittedness of an Aleck who didn’t have
the native gumption to keep the buckets
of milk under his oilskin. “But I did!”
protested the hand. “That is, cornin’
back.” “But, y’ stupid blankard,”
shrieked Minogue. “Didn’t y’ tip all the
water out that you’d have collected in
’em on the way to the paddick?” The
new hand looked at his boss reproach-
fully. “Gripes,” he said. “Y’ don’t
exnect a man f think of everything, do
y’?”
* * * ♦
“Beau Forte”; Joe called for a whisky,
and when the bottle was handed over to
him he served himself extra well, sending
the spirit high above the garter-line. Then
he tossed a bob across the counter. Bung
gave the super-charge a calculating
glance, then he handed back sixpence
change. “Makin’ a bit of a blue, ain’t
y’?” Joe said. “Whisky’s a bob a
nobbier, ain’t it?” “Yes,” Bung replied.
“But I always make a reduction to
customers who buy it in bulk.”
* * * *
“Billy T.”: 'Has anyone at the Alice
seen a scared yellow cat lately? Ex-Dig.
Bert, born with itchy feet, a fiery thatch
and a temper to match it, found it harder
than any of us to settle down to civvies ;
but he’d drawn a good blocjf; and strove
manfully to kill his discontents with work.
His cattle, however, were not always co-
operative ; he was short with them and
they—never having been to a war —
couldn’t understand Bert. When symp-
toms from old Strawberry caused B. to
drop the bucket and grab the short-
handled shovel he would finish up waving
the resultant evidence under Strawb’s
nose and reasoning with her in florid
language but with indifferent success,
Nugget was no better, for after three times
round the paddock trying to evade cap-
ture he would make the error of start-
ing work at a pace faster than the steady
gait desirable when scuffling maize,
“Right! ” snaps Bert. “If you can trot so
can I! ” and when the neighbors saw a
wall of dust rising like a smoke-soreen
across the paddock they knew that
Nugget and his owner had again chal-
lenged each other to a test of stamina.
But a lull came, for Bert found him a
girl and worked hard and long to prepare
his home for her; he papered, scrubbed
and curtained, then brought home a mag-
nificent service of fine crockery. This he
washed and stood to drain on his kitchen-
bench—a wide board butted to two walls
and supported by a single leg—after
which he sat down to remove his
bluchers ; when he spotted his cat with-
drawing its head from the milk-jug. Their
eyes met, the cat dived for the door, Bert
let fly a boot and with beautiful judgment
got both the cat and the lone leg of his
“A quid each for the stalls! Whod’ y' think this is—Phar Lap?"
bench, and down came the lott. He
uttered a distracted howl, kicked the door
shut, grabbed a stockwhip. They were
last seen heading straight inland, the cat
gaining fast; hence my opening query.
KT * , * * _
: Bughouses’ geology (B.
23 1 11/ 49) appears to be rather befuddled,
First there are only four major age divi-
sions of the earth’s history: The Pre-
Cambrian, the Palaeozoic (ancient life),
the Mesozoic (middle life), and the Caino-
zoic (recent life). The Azoic is a sub-
division of the Pre-Cambrian; the
TnassiC, Jurassic and Cretaceous are
subdivisions of the Mesozoic, while
the Tertiary is a subdivision of
the Camozoic, These ages were not
all terminated by earth upheavals, the
Mesozoic ending in a period of remark-
able tranquillity. It was only in the last
two subdivisions of the Palaeozoic (the
Carboniferous and Permian) that the bulk
of the world’s coal resources were laid
down The second (Ordovician) and the
fourth (Devonian) were periods of
volcanic action, and the third (Silurian)
was very calm. Primitive ants and bees
(Protohymenopterd) did exist in these
times, but the termites ( Isoptera ) didn t
appear until the early Cainozoic, well
after the Jurassic. Again, man has been
on earth only for the last one million
years, not the last 40-odd million years
that “Bughouse” implies, so that the ants
and bees have had ample opportunity to
aid his relatively short existence here.
“Wif”. «p* m iqmo/viqi
Wit . Pongo (B. 19/10/ 4y)
apparently knows only his own State when
he suggests that bulloaks are to be found
only in hungry country. Victoria s vast
Wimmera district is renowned as one of
the world’s finest wheatgrowing belts,
yet the Wimmera plains know node other
than bulloaks as native trees. Gums
and other shelter-trees have been tried
over many decades, but none has fared
as well as the hardy bulloak on the black
rich plainlands.
* * * *
“Max”: “Rooster” is too sweeping
when he says (B. 26/10/’49) that violet
color is not found in birds. Let him
gaze at a cage of plum-head finches and
note the almost incredible purple of their
caps. As for there being no, or few,
blue foods, what can be bluer than the
berries of the lovely native blueberry ash,
Elceocarpus cyaneus, or the shining waxy
royal-blue fruits of the dianellas? North
American bears are said to be fond of
all the different sorts of blue fruits known
generally as blueberries.
* * * *
“Yabber Yabber”: Among the many
superstitions handed down from the
ancestors of the present Lacepede Bay
(S.A.) aborigines is the legend of the
Mint-khar—a bird of ill-omen whose
appearance or cry foretells misfortune,
Among the natives it is feared even more
than the dreaded Muldarpi. One day,
many years before the advent of the
white man, Mint-khar, an old rupulle, or
chief, before settling down for a sleep
in the sun, threatened his tribe with dire
misfortune if they dared awaken him*
Some hours after he had been sleeping a
dreadful cry was heard by the blacks,
Looking in the direction of their sleeping
chief they saw a small bird with a loud
voice sitting in a near-by tree. It repeated
its loud cry, but the chief slept on. Then
a frightful wailing and crying arose as
the tribe realised the chief was dead and
his spirit had entered the Mint-khar,
so-named on the spot. That even to this
day the Mint-khar is a true prophet of
misfortune I was assured by a young
half-caste who had been thrown from a
steer and severely injured not long after
one of these small, grey, loud-voiced
birds had alighted on his horse’s head
when he was riding through the scrub
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: The N.Q. Binghi is the
energetically-living exception to the rule
that adherence to modern standards of
hygiene makes for longevity. Before he
takes the knock from store tucker and
white-pfeller clothes the native seems to
thrive on germs deemed lethal in the
European reckoning. To see a Binghi
Sarey Gamp puffing at a twist of “rope-
stick” trade tobacco while she performs
her office would bring hysterics to the
academic midwife. Nevertheless, the
piccaninnies are born offensively healthy,
though, tragically, too often civilisation
takes its toll before adolescence. The
island native, certainly a virile type whose
numbers are actually rising, founders the
hobby-horse of the fresh-air fiends. The
crew of a native-manned shelling-ketch
sleeps below, 12 in a carefully-hatched
cabin, wherein even two Europeans would
deem themselves cramped, in an atmos-
pbere one could cut with a knife. Bugs
an d cockroaches swarm under a policy
of live and let and in such quarters.
wbich b wbite standards would be
regarded y as a germ . cuUure chamber , the
lives _ a ® d keeps on i ivin g,
y B
ur> * „ * . * * ~
Betcha : Was riding through old
Charlie s little place and came on a sick
ewe - J^ ter pl . ck, ? g i er a up , l castan
f ound r l e , s °i dlc Bock ’ and ca cd
m ° n Charlie. Those ewes of yours
a dose, Chari I told him Bet
re wo ™y as £ 1 kn ™.
ho answered testily. I lorst four yes dy.
Don’t see how they’re gonna get any
better, either, long as youse blokes keep
on like y’ doin’.” “Us! How?” “The
price o’ flamin’ drench,” he snorted,
“Nicotine went up t’ four-fifteen a gal-
lon, then six quid, then ten. Once a
rn a n could dose ’is sheep an’ keep ’em
healthy, but now—aw, hell, it’s too ex-
pensive.” “Don’t be silly!” I argued,
“You’ll go broke if you don’t drench
’em.” “Yair, an’ I’ll go broke if I do,”
he bawled at me. “Somebody’s got t’
teach them drench people a lesson, ain’t
they?- Awright, then, I’m gonna boycott
the cows. Whole flamin’ lot of ’em. I
ain’t payin’ no eighteen quid a gallon,
I’ll let every one o’ me sheep die first
That'lt teach ’em!”
OODNADATTA.
N.S.W.
Aeroplane,
Buzz high.
Buzz low:
Blowfly.
Gold away
In hills and
Burning gold:
Desert sand.
Tin-top houses,
Sun-baking;
Drowsy village,
Dehydrating.
Buzz, buzz,
Gold, sand,
Oodnadatta:
Cooked land.
LAN HEALY.


fd
What special knowledge must your trustee possess?
FINANCE:
INVESTMENT:
MANAGEMENT:
Has he an expert knowledge of
finance and the wise use of income?
Does he understand investments?
Can he exercise impartial judgment?
Is he alert to markets and trends?
Has he had a wide experience in the
management of properties and
estates?
TAXATION:
TRUSTEESHIP:
Is he conversant with the intricacies
of tax legislation?
Is he alive to his responsibilities as a
trustee? Can he be unbiased in
decisions? Will he be continuously
available or pre-occupied with his
own affairs to the neglect of his
duties as your trustee?
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. brings to trusteeship and estate administration an
expert knowledge gained by the successful handling of thousands of estates. Its services “go on for ever,”
are continuously Available. Ample security is given for the performance of trusts. Consult your solicitor,
or write for Free Booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd,/
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming: Stewart.
General Manager; W. Sydney Jones.
.01 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
and I BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £966,706.
Incorporated In Victoria in 1878.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Kitchie, M. 8., Ch.M., I'.K.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., LL.B,, H.C.; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.B.E. N.S.W. Manager; C. B. R. Powdery.
The [?]
COLUMN
Queensland Insurance Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1941.. 124,928 10 p.c. = 75,000 49,928 1,079,224
To reserve unexpired risks, £15,000.. 1,094,224
1942.. 142,376 10 p.c. = 75,000 67,376 1,161,600
To reserve unexpired risks, £15,000 1,176,600
1943.. 149,637 10 p.c. = 75,000 74,637 1,251,237
To reserve unexpired risks, £15,000.. 1,266,237
1944.. 163,976 10 p.c. = 75,000 88,976 1,355,213
To reserve unexpired risks, £15,000.. 1,370,213
1945.. 192,432 10 p.c. = 75,000 117,432 1,487,645
To reserve unexpired risks, £65,000.. 1,552,645
1946.. 177,063 10 p.c. = 75,000 102,063 1,654,708
To reserve unexpir.ed risks, £105,000.. 1,759,708
1947.. 196,429 10 p.c. = 75,000 121,429 1,881,187
To reserve unexpired risks, £150,000 2,031,137
1948.. 202,605 10 p.c. = 75,000 127,505 2,168,642
To reserve unexpired risks, £lOO,OOO 2,258,642
1949.. 206,903 12$ p.c. = 93,750 118,153 2,871,795
For the investor, one result of the elec-
tions is removal of both the immediate
and prospective threat of nationalisation
from insurance as well as banking—the
new Government has promised to
ask the people to amend the Constitution
so that no undertaking can be nationalised
without a referendum ; a truly democratic
decision.
The market, which backs its opinion
with so much of its resources as it
chooses to employ, lengthened its bid for
this co.’s pound shares from 935. 6d.
before the elections to 955. last week. The
lift in the div. : from 10 p.c. to Vl\ p.c.
had been allowed for in the price long
ago, the interim distribution being at the
higher rate. At 955. the immediate return
is only 2.6 p.c. on a 12i p.c. div. basis.
So the investor who looks for no more
than a shade over 3 p.c. on his money
counts on a 15 p.c. div., or, say, a one-
for-two bonus-scrip issue and 10 p.c.
distribution, which would then call for
£112,500, or £9385 less than last term’s
net return from investments alone.
With world-wide connections, the co.
—it is Sydney-controlled—is a handsome
contributor to Australia’s invisible ex-
ports, a fact likely to be more appreciated
when the terms of trade turn against us
than at the moment. Excepting Canada,
where for technical reasons business was
deliberately curtailed, all-round expansion
was again the keynote of the latest
accounts. Considerable development is
reported in India, Pakistan, Africa
(especially Rhodesia), Malaya, Java and
the Pacific islands. More business was
written in Australia, too, but the co, lost
its workers’-compensation contracts in
New Zealand, where the Government
took over this class of business in April
last. Income was buoyant in all depart-
ments, but losses were heavier, especially
in the accident, motor-vehicle and marine
sections.
The growth in net premium income was
£181,438:
Net Loss Expense
Sept. Premiums. Claims. Expenses.t Rate. Rate.
£ & £
1930.. 774,560 485,040 306,804 62.6 p.c. 39.8 p.C.
1940.. 743,309 382,520 296,822* 51.4 ~ 39.9 „
1944.. 907,559 412,989 405,500* 45.5 „ 44.6 „
1945.. 932,777 896,495 420,671* 42.5 „ 45.1 „
1946. 1,041,848 463,2t)8 434,471* 44.4 „ 41.7 „
1947. 1,253,003 616,745 446,523* 49.2 „ 35.6 „
1948.1,524,443, 713,832 576,928* 46.8 „ 37.8 „
1949. 1,705,881 829,824 691,039* 48.6 „ 40.5 „
* Excludes taxes, etc., on returns from investments.
t Including contributions to staff funds.
The loss rate, though still moderate, was
365. p.c. heavier, and expansion and rising
costs sent the expense rate up by £2 14s.
p.c. The drop in the gross underwriting
surplus (£185,018) was £48,665 ; but after
reserving £lOO,OOO (down £50,000) for un-
expired risks, there was again in the net
surplus (£85,018) £1335. Interest and
rents turned in £121,865 net (up £3063),
making profit claimed from all sources
£206,903 (up £4398).
All that was after allowing for un-
expired risks at the liberal rate of 58
p.c. of net premium income. On the
usually accepted 40 p.c. basis, the year’s
underwriting surplus would be £112,399
(down £12,708), and the profit from all
sources £234,284 (down £9645), which is
equal to 31.2 p.c. on the £750,000 of
capital as against 32.5, 28.9 and 26.5 p.c.
for the three preceding terms. Capital,
however, has the support and assistance
of £2,371,795 of reserves, and share-
holders are entitled to a reasonable return
on the two combined, on which the
£234,284 of profit was no more than
7.5 p.c.
Expansion of the business again shows
up in a growth of £279,399 in freeholds
—largely on account of new premises at
Brisbane, Perth, Johannesburg and else-
where —and of £197,121 in book debts:
f 1948 ~ <-> 1949
„ p.c. p.c.
Govt. securities £2,167,764 42.7 £2,136,579 88.4
Cash, etc. .. 410,465 8.1 381,840 6.0
Shares, etc. .. 564,261 11.1 576,180 10.4
Mortgages .. 540,904 10.7 648,615 11.7
Book debts ~ 043,824 12.7 840,945 15.1
Freeholds ~ 745,437 14,? 1,024,836 18.4
Total assets .. £5,072,655 100.0 £5,658,995 100.0
Liabilities* .. 2,128,513 2,390,325
Net assets ..£2,946,142 £8,168,670
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
The addition of £107,711 to mortgages
mainly reflects building loans through
the subsidiary, Queensland, Co-operative
Permanent Building and Investment
Society, Ltd. Financially the co.’s posi-
tion is a very strong one, which means
that policyholders and shareholders are
both well protected.
Amalgamated Textiles (N.S.W.)
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.
Sj £ £> £>
1940.. 30,469 Nil 30,469 17,793
Profit sale of shares, £433 .. ~ 17,360
Reserves.
Written off capital, £55,158 .. .. 37,798
1941.. 35,667 9.23 p.c.= 22,063 13,604 51,402
1942.. 23,582 9.28,, „ 22,064 1,518 52,920
1943.. 28,162 9.23 „ „ 22,063 6,099 59,019
1944.. 19,982 7.69 ~ „ 18,390 1,592 60,611
Unexplained reduction, £4O .. .. 60,561
1945.. 27,659 9.23 p.c.= 22,069 5,590 66,161
1946.. 30,294 9.23 ~ „ 22,069 8,225 74,386
1947.. 48,931 12.3 ~ „ 29,424 19,507 93,893
1948.. 56,641 13.8 „ „ 83,102 28,539 117,432
1949.. 66,933 15.38,, „ 36,781 30,152 147,583
Special tax provision, £24,500 .. 123,083
Mindful of the co.’s early history, and
doubtful of what lies ahead of the textile
trade in Australia, the market now prices
the co.’s f.-p. 10s. lOd. shares at 21s.—
the figure fluctuated between 21s. 7d. and
17s. 6d. over the last 12 months. The
immediate return at 21s. is 7.9 p.c. so
long as last terra’s increased rate of dis-
tribution continues, of 5.1 p.c. should the
rate drop to 10 p.c. The cover is 16s. sd.
in net tangibles, of which Bs. Id. is repre-
sented by fixed assets, worth what they
can earn.
Although some early history looked
almost like a swansong, the business was
got on to an even keel in 1940, and has
continued to make encouraging progress
since. For the nine years to the close of
last accounts shareholders have had divs.
averaging 10.6 p.c., and £123,083 of
reserves has been accumulated. Certainly
all this was accomplished during a period
of war and post-war inflation and short-
ages, during which competition was re-
duced to a minimum and a ready market
at rising prices awaited worsted cloth
and other products turned out from the
mills at Albury, Orange and Goulbum.
Still, financially the co. is in better trim
than ever before, a lot of new plant has
been installed since the war and old
equipment is reported in good order.
Last term mill profit (£147,388) stepped
up by £17,149. That was after allowing
for depreciation (£11,306, up £5324) and
transferring £58,849 to a price-averaging
fund. This fund is the extra profit earned
on materials made from old (subsidised)
wool stocks, and is to be used to delay
price-rises in materials made from new
season’s (unsubsidised) raw wool. A tight
hold was kept upon exes. (£80,455, up
£6857), and the net result benefited by
£10,292, reaching a record £66,933, or
more than double the 1946 figure. The
£66,933 was 28 p.c. on capital as against
23.6, 20.4, 12.6, 11.5 and 8.3 p.c. back
to 1944. The div. was raised from 13.8
p.c, to 15.38 p.c., and the £30,152 that
remained was “temporarily charged” with
special tax provision (£24,500) in respect
of the averaging fund just referred to.
If this tax is not rightly a charge against
the averaging fund itself, the co. has re-'
ceived shabby treatment at the hands of
the taxgatherer.
In more competitive pre-war days the
co. was handicapped by heavy overhead
in the form of transport charges, owing
to the position of the mills. Today com-
pensating factors are “full” employment,
high* incomes and advantages in respect
of the labor problem. The testing-time l
will arrive when the national income
begins to fall and the nigh level of prices
restricts consumer demand, and compe-*
tition, from both local and overseas,
sources, gets more of an edge on it. Much;
will depend upon whether the State Gov-'
eminent is prepared to give more than lip-!
service to the problem of decentralisation?
by granting adequate rail-freight con-
cessions.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949. .
Paid capital.. £289,075 £230,075 £239,075 £239,075'
Overdraft .. 43,2165
Sundry creditors 33,815 85,815 34,197 60,304.
Tax reserve .. 28,500 30,500 35,000 63,500*
Averaging fund 68,849*
Freeholds .. 66,185 68,770 68,770 68,770*
Plant, etc. .. 101,104 104,029 109,269 110,310?
Stocks .. 85,781 88,197 109,981 293,909/
Book debts .. 77,758 89,827 109,857 141,886*
Cash, etc. .. 59,609 71,028 49,895
To meet the year’s addition of £183,052
to stocks and £91,991 to debtors’
—both due largely to higher prices follow-.
Jug withdrawal of subsidies and the rise(
in price of raw wool —the co, went to*
its bankers for £43,216 and increased the!
amount coming to sundry creditors by)
£26,107. Owing to the special tax prb- f
vision, the improvement in the more-or-
less liquid surplus (£208,928) was only.
£8692.
Bruce Pie Industrie*, Ltd. (Bris.)
To Re- Defl-
June, Profit. , Dividend , serves. cit.*
£ £ £ £
Goodwill, £5747 .. .. .. 5,747
Prelim, exes. & brokerage, £10,184.. 15,981
1947 ~ 8,305 3 p.c. = 4,690 3,615 12,316
1948 . . 12,200 3 „ „ 9,000 3,200 9,116
Added goodwill, etc., £3917 .. .. 13,033
1949 .. 24,031 5 „ „ 18,423 5,608 7,425
"After deducting intangibles, £13,664 at
June 30, 1949.
This three-year-old textile and bedding
manufacturing co. hasn’t yet got into its
stride, but is shaping well. It kicked
off with £300,000 of capital, of which
£59,073 (in scrip) was used to buy two
existing businesses —Bruce Pie Bedding
Co. £8823 (including £5745 for goodwill)
and Queensland Textile Co. £50,250. The
balance, publicly subscribed for cash,
went mainly into a new worsted-spinning
and -knitting factory, put up on a 50-
acre site at Kedron, near Brisbane.
Owing to delays in delivefy of equip-
ment, difficulties associated with its in-
stallation and with the training of staff,
the Kedron plant didn’t get into full
swing until the last five months of the
1949 term. Meanwhile divs. from the
textile subsidiary, which sent along a
regular £7OOO p.a., and earnings from
the bedding section kept the pot boil-
ing, and shareholders got 3 p.p. for each
of the first two years and 5 p.c. last term.
At end February last another 150,000
new £1 ords. were issued at par, raising
paid capital to £450,000. The new money
was needed to help finance extensions to
buildings and plant, including automatic
inner-spring mattress-making equipment,
carry more stock and book debts, in-
crease the holding in the subsidiary (now
90,000 £1 shares, up 20,000), and buy
the small bedding factory of F. Heatley
and Sons (Townsville) at an unstated
figure—-£3917 was added to goodwill,
apparently on account of this purchase.
After allowing £9371 (up £8586) for
depreciation, £11,500 (up £9300) for taxa-
tion and paying staff bonuses of from
2% p.c. to 5 p.c. on salaries, the profit
nearly doubled, reaching £24,031, or 6.5
p.c. ; on average capital. After paying
the div., the £5608 that was left reduced
the amount of capital unrepresented by
tangibles at June 30 to £7425.
Orders on hand and in sight are
enough to keep plant working two shifts
a day for some time, and costs should
benefit, especially since the co. is now
spinning its own yarns. The mischievous
coal strike interrupted production during
the early months of the current term,
wage-rates are still rising and some of the
plant is not yet properly run-in. Still, it is
reasonable to expect a better showing
at next balance. On capital as it now
stands a 5 p.c. div. would call for £1531
less profit than was earned last term.
Whether a higher rate of div. need be
expected is open to question. Current
favorable trading conditions will not last
for ever, and no harm would be done
if the div, is kept moderate and the sup-
port and assistance for capital strength-
ened.
Development has been well balanced, as
the following comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. .. £299,812 £300,000 £450,000
Overdraft .. .. 45,784 73,051
Sundry creditors .. 9,755 27,756 58,325
Freeholds .. ~ 19,452 80,022 99,530
Plant 4,618 70,760 121,094
Shares subsidiary .. 86,142 86,142 111,142
Stocks 38,095 117,037 187,637
Debtors 17,849 19,464 72,637
Cash 186,236 825
Intangibles .. .. 13,747 11,747 13,664
Last term £69,851 net was added to the
book-value of fixed assets, £25,000 to
shareholdings, £70,600 to stocks and
£53,173 to book debts. To meet the out-
lay the co. went outside for an extra
£57,836 in addition to the fresh capital
gathered. The year’s improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£129,223)
was £66,262.
At 225. 6d. the scrip returns 4.4 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. div. basis. Net tangible cover
(book-lvalue) is 19s. Bd.
Lamnon Paragon, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ ft & ■ &
1942.. 17,988 10 p.c. = 15,000 2,988 80,838
1943.. 21,086 10 „ „ 15,000 6,086 86,924
1944.. 22,645 10 „ „ 15,000 7,045 94,569
1945.. 20,767 10 „ „ 15,000 5,767 100,336
Reserves capitalised, £12,500 .. .. 97,830
Share premiums, £6250 .. .. 94,086
Unexplained addition, £4OOO .. 98,086
1946.. 28,502 10 p.c. = 17,977 5,525 103,611
Share premiums, £23,438 .. .. 127,049
1947.. 29,879 10 p.c. = 19,531 9,848 136,897
1948.. 29,132 10 „ „ 24,610 4,522 141,419
Share premiums, £22,500 .. .. 163,919
1949.. 36,116 10 p.c. 28,880 7,236 171,155
The investor who bought, say, 108 £1
shares in this co. at the then current price
of 375. 6d, each in July, 1945, and has
exercised his rights to new issues, etc.,
since, has nothing to complain about.
Meanwhile, he has received one small
bonus issue (one for 12) followed by three
new issues for cash (one for six and one
for two, each at a premium of ss. a share,
ansi then two for five at a premium of Bs.
a share). He would thus now hold 287
shares at a total cost of £427 65., an
average of 295. 9d. a share, at which
figure the yield is 6.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. And at today’s market price
of 48s. a share he can see a capital profit
of £261 10s., or 61.2 p.c. At the current
price of 48s. (465. 6d. a few months ago)
the immediate return is 4.1 p.c. on a 10
p.c. div. basis, and the backing, including
uncalled capital, etc., 295. Bd. in net
tangibles.
It was, of course, a period of rapid
expansion, which is not likely to continue
at anything like the same pace over the
next four years. To “comfortably” cover
its building and development programme
the co. issued 112,500 new £1 shares at a
premium of Bs. each in June last. At end
Oct. £30,134 of the new capital and
£22,500 of the share premiums had been
gathered, leaving £82,366 of capital and
another £22,500 of share premiums to


T. & G.:
MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
GREAT PROGRESS MAINTAINED
The 73rd Annual Meeting of the Society was held
1 22nd December, at the Society’s Head Office in
on Thursday,
Melbourne.
NEW BUSINESS
Tbe Chairman, Mr. J. T. Thomp-
son, said:
“It is very gratifying to report
an excellent volume of New Business
in the Life Department, comprising-
117,062 policies assuring £28,690,514.
41,049 Ordinary Policies assuring
£20,895,496 and 76,003 Industrial
policies assuring £8,295,018 were
effected. The aggregate sum assured
(excluding Temporary Assurances
and short-term Assurances) exceeded
the previous year’s total. In the
Accident Department 12,715 policies
assuring £4,539,320 were issued, and
Accident benefits assuring £7,690,712
were added to life policies: The
whole of this New Business was
derived from Australia and New
Zealand.
“An even greater percentage of
the Society’s New Business than in
the previous year was obtained from
Group Assurance, which makes pro-
vision for many forms of Life Assur-
ance and Superannuation for the
benefit of employees. • It helps to
promote goodwill and to ensure the
loyalty of the Staff. Employers are
taking an increasing interest in the
welfare of their staffs and many are
making substantial contributions to
the premiums payable under super-
annuation schemes entrusted to the
Society.'
INCOME AND ASSURANCE FUNDS
“Income increased by £813.287 to
£11,516,017. Payments to Policy-
holders amounted to £4,393,451. The
funds, which show a record increase
of £4,811,954 to £63,635,665, represent
the accumulated savings of policy-
holders. These arise from an ex-
tremely large number of small pre-
mium payments, and are held in
trust entirely for the benefit of
policyholders and invested until re-
quired for the settlement of .claims.
Although the individual payments
of members may be the
Society’s co-operative system enables
even the holders of the smallest
policies to enjoy the advantages
attaching to large-scale investments.
Your Directors are firmly resolved to
place the safety of the funds above
any other consideration and no in-
vestment risk will be acceptalde
which is likely to jeopardize the
security of the policyholders’ sav-
ings for old age and death benefits.
The amount invested in Government
and Public Body loans increased by
£4,378,679. The public works carried
out with this loan money are of
great benefit to the community and
play a large part in the development
of your country’s resources.
“Industry has also been aided by
large.amounts advanced on mortgage
and under the Society’s Home Pur-
chase system a large number of
policyholders and others have been
enabled to acquire their own homes.
As the Society’s investments are
always put to some useful purpose,
they are of great value to the
national economy.
VOLUNTARY METHOD
“Life Assurance under the present
voluntary system is also beneficial
to the social structure. The indi-
vidual may select the particular type
of policy which he prefers, accord-
ing to his circumstances and as
may be suitable to his own par-
ticular needs. He may also select
the Life Office to which he desires
to belong, and as there are several
competitive Offices all striving to
Improve the efficiency of their ser-
vices in order to gain public favour,
there are beneficial results to all con-
cerned. The average citizen realizes
the provision which he most make
in order to secure a measure of
comfort in. his old age and for
his dependants after his death in-
stead of relying too much on
the social security provision of the
State. In a highly taxed community
the State cannot go much beyond the
necessities of life and must follow a
standardized pattern, irrespective of
the particular needs of the indi-
vidual. As there are now more than
3J million thrifty citizens in Aus-
tralia and New Zealand making their
own provision by means of Life As-
surance, the liabilities of the Life
Companies under their policy con-
tracts have lifted a heavy burden
of responsibility from the State and
constitute a stabilising influence Of
great benefit to the community.
BENEFITS OF MUTUAL
ASSURANCE
“Mutual Assurance is undoubtedly
the best of all voluntary systems.
The contributors to the fund come
from all ranks of the community and
all walks of life- Where early deaths
occur, the fund is always sufficient
to meet these claims promptly, as
the claim money is derived from the
contributions, not only of those who
die, but also of those who survive.
“Another feature of our Mutual
System is that whether the member’s
contributions be large or small, or
whether payments are made weekly
or at other intervals, the same rate
of interest is applicable to all. The
expenses are also apportioned be-
tween the Ordinary and Industrial
Departments on the most equitable
basis possible. Finally, on the re-
commendation of our Actuaries, the
surplus is allotted to the participat-
ing policies. There are no share-
holders in a Mutual Society, which
is conducted by the Directors, who are
policyholders, solely for the benefit
of the policyholders. As the system
is wholly co-operative and truly
democratic, it is difficult to under-
stand why the funds of members
who have exercised thrift and self-
denial should be taxed in order to
augment the National Revenue.
OUTSTANDING RESULTS
“Your Society continues to enjoy
a high degree of public confidence.
Assurances in force, now £195,821,018,
are more than double the total in
1939. New Business figures were
eminently satisfactory. The Income
and growth of funds for the year are
also record figures. The Accident De-
partment continues to make excep-
tional progress and its income
amounted to £274,154. £25,000 has
been transferred from the surplus in
the Accident Department to the in-
vestment reserve fund of the Life
Department. A surplus of £1,246,703
in the Life Department is disclosed.
The allotments provide for Bonuses
on a slightly lower scale in the
/Ordinary Department and, after
strengthening the valuation basis,
for a continuance of the present
scale in the Industrial Department.
LOYAL STAFF
“I wish to pay a special tribute to
the magnificent services rendered by
all male and female members of the
Field and Indoor Staffs. I cannot
speak too highly of their efforts.
“I regret to announce the death of
one of the Society’s Auditors, Mr.
A. McK. Hislop, who rendered valu-
able service to the Society for 29
years. The vacancy was filled by the
appointment of Mr. W. M. Scott.’’
Retiring Directors, Messrs. A. R.
Stewart and H. G. Brain, and re-
tiring Auditors, Messrs. J. M. F.
Relph find W. M. Scott, were re-
elected.
—
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Oollins Street,''Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Public Notice.
Gold Exploration and Finance
Company of Australia Limited
(In Liquidation)
Notice is hereby given that transfers
of Gold Exploration and Finance Com-
pany of Australia Limited stock will not
be registered after 18th January, 1950.
L. EDWARDS, Liquidator,
360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
16th December, 1949.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
Cylinder
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.g.W.
Hastings Peering Building Limited
and
Hastings Deering Service Limited
Chairman's Speech
Speaking to Shareholders at the Annual
General Meetings of the Companies, held on
15th December, 1949, Mr. H. Hastings Deering,
the Chairman, , outlined the Companies*
activities, and said: —
My remarks to-day cover our activities as a whole, as the
Service Company has a controlling interest in the Building
Company and its subsidiaries and both Companies have
unified management but with separate Boards of Directors
and separate legal advisers.
Printed copies of the audited accounts and the Directors’.
Report fpr the period ended 31st August. 1949, have been’
circulated to all shareholders and with your permission I will
take them as read. They convey the general prosperous tone
of our work, the strengthening of our reserves and the sound
financial basis on which we are developing.
FORD
It is our belief that the real reward for good work is more
good work and, viewed in this way, our Companies to-day
enjoy an increasing public demand for all their services. In
our representation of the Ford Motor Company of Australia
Pty. Limited, we are extending service facilities for the con-
venience of Ford motorists, conforming to a pattern of
decentralisation to ease the traffic problems in the City of
Sydney. So, in addition to William .Street in the heart of the
city and Camperdown—the Western gateway—we shall, at
Lldcoinbe, on the Main Western Highway, provide the most
complete service for all types of private and commercial
vehicles. At Yagoona, North Bankstown, on the Southern
Highway—the highway to Melbourne and Canberra—another
service depot for our customers will be in operation within
three months. Our plans to develop our property at North
Sydney, on the main Northern Highway, are delayed only by
reason of the current building restrictions.
We are always mindful that it is our privilege to adminis-
ter in Sydney the largest single Ford franchise in the world.
We have invested over £250,000 of capital in this represen-
tation; we serve Ford owners, after 14 years’ experience,
with skilled engineers, a splendid machine shop, a modern
body works and a total plant second to none in this Country.
pur subsidiary in Alice Springs Hastings Deering
(Northern Territory) Pty. Limited—represents Ford in Cen-
tral Australia and will be Identified with the future develop-
ment of the Northern Territory. A very good workshop has
been established and the same emphasis on service to Ford
users applies in the heart of Australia as in Sydney.
A.E.C.
In the heavier transport field, I have for 25 years been
privileged to be the Managing Director In Australia of A.E.C.
(Australia) Pty. Limited—a direct branch of A.E.C. Limited
of Southall, Middlesex—builders of London’s buses. When I
was in London earlier this year, Mr. Reeve, the Chairman of
Associated Commercial Vehicles Limited—one of England's
largest groups of motor vehicle manufacturers, comprising
A.E.C., Maudslay, Crossley and Park Royal—gave me the
opportunity to purchase A.E.C. (Australia) Pty. Limited
without any commitment for the considerable goodwill built
up in Australia after 25 years’ trading. Furthermore, he
accorded me the trust and privilege of using the A.E.C. name
and of acquiring the exclusive right to manufacture the
A.E.C. chassis in Australia. Financial arrangements to
accept this exceptional offer have been made and draft
agreements have already been approved. As soon as legal
formalities are completed, it is proposed to issue further
capital in Hastings Deering Building Limited to subscribe
the required capital in A.E.C. (Australia) Pty. Limited,
which will be a further wholly owned subsidiary. The busi-
ness will be acquired as at Ist October, 1949, at which date
our Australian orders In hand exceeded £1,140,000 for the
supply of A.E.C. buses and commercial chassis to Govern-
ment and private users. The consent of the Capital Issues
Board has been granted for the issufe of this new capital.
"EARTH-MOVING"
CATERPILLAR-LIMA
In what we term “the earth-moving” side of our business,
we are facing substantial development. Our subsidiary,
Hastings Diesels Pty. Limited, represents the Caterpillar
Tractor Company of U.S.A. in the Northern Territory and
portion of Western Queensland and we have utilised every
available dollar in supplying Caterpillar tractors to essential
users in this area. I have, in the last two years, made two
extensive surveys of. the Territory. It was, and still is. my
belief that private enterprise can make an important con-
tribution to the development of the Territory, provided the
approach is in the pioneering spirit. The hard work of
development, which means making roads and railways and
conserving water, cannot be delayed in the Nation’s interest
and it must not be shirked only because it is hard. It is a
field of endeavour in which the Government and private
enterprise combined can make good headway. On the
Government’s side a great deal of detailed planning has been
done and much progress should be evident in the early
future.
We have recently been entrusted with the representation
in the whole of the Australian Continent of Lima-Hamiiton
Corporation of U.S.A., one of the world’s best-known makers
of cranes, shovels and drag-lines—a representation we are
well equipped to give by reason of our engineering associa-
tions and our emphasis on service.
ATLAS DIESEL
Whilst in Sweden at the beginning of this year, Mr.
Wehtje, the Chairman of Atlas Diesel, Stockholm, entrusted
to me the formation of the Australian Atlas Company to
manufacture and market Atlas rock drilling and hydro-
electric equipment. Mr. Gibson, of the Atlas Company,
Sweden, is now in Australia to demonstrate Atlas drilling
methods which are, we believe, the finest in the world to-day.
Considerable interest has been created in Australian mining
and engineering circles in these demonstrations and the
coming year will see a big development of this Important
activity.
PROPERTIES
To relieve the demand for service space at our Head
Office building in William Street, we .propose to transfer our
Machine Shop to Lidcombe as soon as the new building,
which we are about to erect for this purpose, is ready. The
provision of much greater office accommodation is also
under consideration.
Plans have been finalised also for the erection of a three-
storied building on the Main Western Highway at Peter-
sham. It is hoped to be able to commence this building in
the New Tear, and when completed it will function as a bulk
Parts Store for all our representations. The location of this
service building on the outskirts of the city will, we believe,
contribute to the convenience of our customers and the
easing of the city’s traffic congestion.
Before concluding, I want once again to say that our
Companies are young In spirit and those who bear the heat
and burden of the day in our work are young in spirit, knit
together as a good team by the friendship which common
purpose engenders. This la our real strength and I am con-
fidently building on it. We have faith in Australia’s future,
and faith In our own future.
f
come. When all the money is in
paid capital win be £393,750, on
which 10 p.c. will call for £3259
,
more profitthan was claimed
last term. There will, however.
be more assets at work, and
tot.. f
new money usually takes time to
develop full earning capacity.
... .
The co. specialises in manu-
facture of all kinds of office
equipment and commercial
stationery, turned out from its
own factories in all States ex-
cept Tasmania, where a sales
branch at Hobart looks after the
local market. A new factory at
Edmondstown (near Adelaide)
came into production a year or
so ago, but erection of the one
Z
term, and it has not yet had a
chance to show what it can do,
The year’s improvement in
gross earnings (£208,515) was
£32,789. After allowing for de-
preciation (£17,585, up £3471)
and taxation (£25,000, up
£4300) and sending £10,119 (up
£996) to the staff fund, the
amount available for share-
holders was £6984 stronger at
rur i t/c u.* n c
£36,116, That was 12.5 p.c on
average capital as against 11. ,
m, 13, 13.8 and 15.1 p.c. back
to 1944. The div. has been
steady at 10 p.c. for the last 11
years.
Last term £20,306 was added
to the book-value of premises,
£34,580 to plant and £19,086 to
book debts;
1947. 1948, 1949.
Paid capital £211,978 £281,260 £811,384
liabilities .. 76,987 129,841 124,855
Tax reserve 83,161 35,284 44,881
Staff fund.. 10,803 7,877 14,881
Premises .. 81,246 83,952 104,258
Plant, etc... 118,788 149,828 184,408
Stock . . 106,849 203,667 259,606
Book debts.. 78,810 101,287 120,373
Cash and
sundries .. 1,882 2,567 3,385
Shares .. 21,000 27,563 34,125
The holding in the subsidiary,
Lamson Paragon (W.A.), Ltd.,
which also pays 10 p.c., was in-
creased by £6562. Excluding
this holding, the more-or-less
liquid sifrplus (£198,746) was
£3687 stronger.
The Gold Price Again
“Cambist”: Before the world
currency realignment began in
September last there was a fairly
widespread view in non-dollar
countries that the value of gold
in terms of commodities would
sooner ox* later have to be in-
creased add that the dollar price
of gold would consequently be
raised from its present level of
$35 per ounce. This view gained
even wider acceptance after the
realignment, despite the rise in
the price of gold in soft-currency
countries, 'including Australia.
The explanation is to be found
in the belief that, owing to the
extent of, devaluation, the U.S.
dollar has* become overvalued in
terms of Sterling and other soft
currencies," Other factors giving
color to ‘the belief are: (1)
whispers that discussions at the
September Washington confer-
ence covered an. eventual in-
crease in the dollar price of gold,
and (2) the action of Belguim
and Italy in exchanging dollars
for gold, and of the French
authorities in depositing gold as
security against a dollar loan
from U.S. bankers. The infer-
ence is, of course, that the prin-
cipal motive behind these trans-
actions was a hedge against a
possible fall in the gold value of
the dollar.
The Secretary to the U.S.
Treasury recently gave a very
categorical denial to this
suggestion ; but, then, so did Sir
Stafford Cripps in connection
with sterling. So far as mone-
tary policy is concerned, present
gold stocks in U.S. are more
than adequate to support any
credit expansion that might be
deemed necessary within the
reasonably foreseeable future.
And there is no certainty that
sterling and other soft cur-
rencies will be found to be
undervalued in terms of dollars
when the price adjustments now
taking place have run their
course. Yet the demand for gold „
is such that, even in New York,
a premium over the official price
exists when transactions take
place outside the official market.
Beyond this there are many
quasi-free gold markets through-
out the world, all operating
under difficulties, with a conse-
quent price disparity between
them; but in all of them the
metal commands a premium over
the corresponding U.S. official
price. The demand comes mainly
from people in areas where there
has been severe inflation and
who have in consequence learned
to distrust paper money.
There the matter stands for
the moment. What will eventu-
ally happen depends largely upon
what occurs inside the U.S. it-
self. Meanwhile, chief danger
to Australian gold - producers
lies in the possibility of the
Australian pound being appreci-
ated in' terms of sterling. Any
definite move in this direction is
likely to meet with strong op-
position from producers in both
primary and secondary in-
dustries.
At Lake View and Star’s
annual roll-up in London on
Dec. 14, chairman Goldthorpe
Hay announced a final div. of
P-c., making total distribu-
tion for the year to June 30 last
50 p.c. as against 471 p.c. for
the two preceding terms. More
lower-grade ore is to be included
in the mill-feed, thus lengthen-
ing the life of the mine, and de-
velopment is to be stepped up.
But a lift of 18s. a week in
miners’ wages in Westralia from
the middle of January will
gobble a good slice of the gain
from the new gold price.


! !
%
w
*
S 3:
O
O
...the first 250 years
1916 s THE BATTLE OF JUTLAND
The year the British Navy won its
greatest battle of the first World War,
Lloyd’s and the British Insurance
Companies were making an important
contribution to the ultimate victory by
helping merchant shipping to weather
the war.
LUMLEY'S OF LLOYD'S OFFER A
FREE INSURANCE ADVISORY SERVICE
As insurance brokers. Lumley’s are in the position,
not only to give you complete advice, but also to
call upon the specialised policies of any number of
underwriting organisations, including Lloyd’s of
London. Whatever your insurance need, make sure
your policy has the best possible coverage and most
reasonable rates by consulting lumley’s free
advisory service —in all States of the Common-
wealth.
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
261 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY : C.M.L. BUtLDING
’Phone: 8W2131 72 HUNTER ST.
NEWCASTLE 81810
And all other States.
EL. 30. TO
FLY THE STERLING ROUTE
'°ov&pe
m
i *KW> ~ Jr "
I
M
wiw\\
wwV
fSTO
8
?>ir
83"
9K
I
New Places . . New Faces in strange lands make
each port-of-call a highlight of interest in the changing scene
on your 4-day sky-joumey by “Kangaroo” Service.
FREE TOURS of Singapore— colourful, cosmopolitan
crossroads of the world ... and Rome— the world’s
storehouse of cultural treasures.
Travel this sterling route for truly hospitable service, for
superlative food, for comfort, for colourful variety. Fly by
the world’s finest long-distance aircraft —luxurious air-
conditioned four-engined Constellations.
Return tickets at special rebate. Reduced fare and increased
baggage allowance for round-the-world travellers.
Consult your travel agent, or
01-A and BOM
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
103 BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
Business.Rollery.Etc.
Petrol Refinements
For complexity there are few
subjects to rival the international
marketing arrangements in
petroleum. To brush away all
the cobwebs will be more than
a brief holiday task for the new
brooms in Canberra, but de-
velopments in Europe already
seem to offer encouragement —
a case, perhaps, of fortune favor-
ing the brave.
For some months now it has
been clear that the technical
problem of providing enough oil
for the world’s requirements has
been mastered. What remain
to be solved are some compli-
cated trading and currency diffi-
culties, centring on the scarcity
of dollars; these had been ex-
pected to continue for a few
years. Britain and the Marshall
Aid countries have not so much
lacked crude oil as refining
capacity. Dollars had to be
spent in obtaining the refined
product from U.S.; but Europe
has set on foot a very vigorous
and ambitious scheme for put-
ting up its own refineries.
In fact, the danger has arisen
that eventually there will be
too many refineries. Since these
are being built largely with
Marshall Aid finance, the U.S.
recently insisted on a special in-
vestigation by the British and
Dutch Governments, and their
report, which was published last
September, estimated that by
1953 the annual supply of refined
oil available within O.E.E.C.
countries would be 72.1 million
metric tons. As consumption
for 1948 was only about 50 mil-
lion tons, the estimate for 1953
would mean an increase of 60
p.c. in five years. Whilst the
demand for oil is continually
rising, as the world economy
turns from coal to petroleum for
its energy, the normal European
increase over a five-year period
would only be about 30 p.c. And
since the preparation of the
Anglo-Dutch report the devalua-
tion of currencies has priced dol-
lar petrol further upwards to its
disadvantage as a competitor
with coal. /
Last week’s announcement
that Britain proposes to slash
her imports of dollar oil early
in the New Year was not, there-
fore, quite so dramatic as the
cables suggest. It was bound to
happen shortly, and the slash-
ing may be expected to get
Heavier; by 1952 Britain hopes
to have a refining capacity of
18 million tons a year, com-
pared with 5i million tons inf
1948. \
The most important feature
of Britain’s announcement re-
lated to her proposal to use all
the increased flow of sterling oil
in cutting American supplies,
rather than relieving in part the
fuel shortages in U.K., Australia
and the rest of the sterling area.
This decision should be (if it
hasn’t already been) a matter
for consultation among the in-
terested countries; not because
the need for conserving dollars
is questioned but to acquaint
each party with the general out-
look.
Even if Britain continues to
deny extra sterling oil to Aus-
tralia for some time, there is a
chance of the dollar price falling
as a result of the new develop-
ments. Thus a given outlay in
dollars could shortly go further
in terms of gallonage, If the
cost of the special imports of
French petrol which the Menzies
Government is considering
proves to be as high as some
pessimists suggest, this could be
no more than a temporary ex-
pedient. But the French re-
fineries, also, have considerable
scope for increased output, and
their prices may show elasticity.
The optimists have thought up
a refinement for their argument
in that any inflow of French
petrol under the aegis of our in-
dependent oil companies would
spur the major oil distributors
“Which one's been Waiting the longest ?”
to search still harder for methods
of surmounting the dollar ob-
stacle. Now that there’s a will
at Canberra it seems much more
likely that there will be found
a way.
Com’wealth Engineering Co.
This Jack found a new master
on December 10. The control-
ling interest in the company be-
longs to the Federal Govern-
ment, but it’s improbable that
Mr. Menzies has a mind for any
drastic reshaping of its trade
policy, or wishes to interfere
with the existing Government
nominees on the board. What
was formerly the Waddington
engineering business at Granville
(N.S.W.) has expanded almost
beyond recognition in the
years since the Government
took up a financial interest to
ensure the delivery of rolling-
stock and other defence supplies.
Strategical arguments can still be
advanced, no doubt, to justify
the Government’s continuance as
a shareholder.
In matters like dividend policy
and issue premiums, there was
no particular evidence under the
previous administration of an
intrusion of doctrinaire political
concepts into the management of
the company. It would, one
hopes, be unthinkable that the
private investors, who have con-
tributed nearly half the com-
pany’s £475,000 capital, should
be placed in a disadvantageous
position by comparison with
shareholders in other concerns.
Last term’s dividend, for Gov-
ernment and public shareholders
alike, was raised from p.c. to
10 p.c., which compared with a
net earning rate of nearly 16 p.c.
on capital.
The board has expressed some
disappointment at the latest
result. Whilst turnover at
£1,294,000 was more than a third
higher than in 1947-48, it could
have been much better still
except for steel shortage and
power breakdowns. Important
expansive measures were taken
last term, from which it seems
the company has yet to reap the
full financial reward. Expendi-
ture on new fixed assets was
£110,212 before depreciation. A
link-up was effected with
Leyland Motors, Ltd., of Eng-
land, and a Brisbane subsidiary
was set up (in association with
Evans, Deakin, Ltd.), mainly to
turn out rolling-stock for the
Queensland Railways.
At Granville, production is
concentrated on transport needs
—railway wagons and carriages,
trams and bus bodies. Orders on
hand total £4£ million, or more
than three years’ output at the
present rate, and they should be
comparatively firm, coming
largely from public bodies.
Better profits appear to be in
the offing, but at the start of the
current term the company
stumbled a little over the coal
breakdown, and there was a big
increase in capital that would
absorb all of last year’s profit in
maintaining the dividend at 10
p.c. Some discounting may be
necessary for the long-term
demand in heavy engineering.
Altogether, the sharemarket's
insistence on a current yield of
5.2 p.c. from the scrip, by pricing
the pound shares at 38s. 6d.,
doesn’t seem too much. Accord-
ing to the books, their asset back-
ing is 245. 7d. each.
N.Z. Forest Products
Forestry concerns in New
Zealand arc throwing their hats
in the air since the change of
Government. One of the most
jubilant spokesmen for private
interests is chairman David
Henry, of N.Z. Forest Products,
Ltd., with 55,000 shareholders
(near!/ two-thirds of them in
Australia) and more than £6
million paid capital.
At the annual meeting in
Auckland, Henry said tbe cos.
had grown tired of nationalisa-
tion trends and domination by
the State Forest Service, which
had to be taught co-operation.
“The time has arrived when all
State Forest responsibilities and
activities might be profitably re-
viewed, having regard to the fact
that the department is to a large
extent a competitor with private
forestry undertakings, while at
the same time it assumes a mea-
sure of dominance over their
future,” was how Henry saw it.
He called for a team effort,
headed by a group of experi-
enced men with orders to plan
and direct how Maoriland’s
great softwood forests could be
converted into £ s. d. as fast as
they reached maturity. It was
' urgent, and if M.L. did the job
Well could net big savings in
dollars. His co. was beginning
to feel its feet and was keeping
its liquid assets intact in the
establishment stage, now promis-
ing well. Funds had been swol-
len by £116,462 in the past year
(ended March), and, with re-
serves added, were only £BOOO
shy of half a million. Most
plant in use had been picked up
at pre-war cok and depreciated
by £304,503 since, so the co. had
good value there today.
Forest Products’ four-year
construction programme, to be
finished by 1953, will swallow up
£4i million, one-third of it for
a chemical woodpulp mill (the
first in Maoriland) and the bal-
ance for a big Swedish gangsaw
mill, a kraft-paper mill, a cor-
rugated-container factory and
housing and servicing amenities,
along with £750,000-worth of
plant ordered from John Bull
and Australia. * Since the
company started milling in
1940 more than 5500 acres
of trees have been felled,
but this is only 3 p.c. of its
175,000-acre plantations.
Against the loss there’s a gain
through natural growth of
several times the logs taken out.


WANTED KNOWN
For Quick, Clear, Inexpensive
RONEO or TYP NG Work*
THE INTEGRITY COPYING SERVICE
Ground Floor,
283 Clarence Bt., Sydney.
Ring- for particulars. MA 5679.
We collect and deliver.
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial'
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
O&UUJVAN
i v rrr v l * ,
Traob
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert, Holman
Everybody is talking politics.
A by-election in Yorkshire —
almost certainly the last one dur-
ing the present term of office —
and general elections not very
far away have focused attention
on one question. To what
extent do these happenings point
to a Socialist reversal in England
at some date, as yet unknown,
within the next six months?
There are so many imponder-
ables that it is unwise con-
fidently to forecast, but it is
possible to take stock with a
reasonable degree of accuracy.
The Labor party, although
vigorously and rather loudly
uttering battle-cries, continues
to fall back into a position of
consolidated defence. The old
crusading spirit which is said to
have brought the party to
strength is certainly not in evi-
except among the all-or-
nothing diehards. Instead, an
impassioned appeal is addressed
to the large, politically-untrained
army of stragglers and waverers,
threatening them with all manner
of hardship and wrongdoing if
any non-Socialist Government
should be elected.
Mass Appeal
The fine followed is one of
popular appeal. Unemployment
and look-how-much-better-off-
you - are-under-our-Government
have been sure winners for the
masses, and these themes have
been plugged with a hammering
monotony that could hardly
have been surpassed by
Goebbels. If the masses had
any doubts about the way they
were being governed, whether
their country was heading for
spendthrift or whether
they were really all that better
off, the übiquitous local propa-
ganda, in glib platform oratory
and organised whisper, could be
depended on to switch their
minds away from the real and
urgent problems.
The question may be asked
whether British people are stupid
enough—as the Germans were —
to be taken in by propaganda
alone. They most certainly are
not; and the Abraham Lincoln
dictum about not fooling all the
people all of the time appears as
a strong but distant light in the
mist of political confusion. The
entire British Press, excepting
only the party sheets, has turned
against the Socialist Govern-
ment, whose incompetence,
partisan cynicism and chicanery
are continually being outlined;
and the Press is backed by a
weight of responsible opinion in
all quarters. But the bulk of the
people, whose pay-envelopes are
heavier than in 1938, whose
hours are shorter and whose re-
sponsibilities are light, may
prefer the sporting pages.
South Bradford By-Election
A great deal was expected,
perhaps without good reason, of
the by-election at South Brad-
ford. This constituency, a
stronghold of radical Liberalism,
was won from the Liberals in
1945 and had previously been
held by Labor in 1924 and 1929.
It had been “nursed” for some
months by the Conservative
candidate, a local solicitor new
to first-line politics. The Socia-
lists appeared to have some diffi-
culty in finding a suitable candi-
date, but eventually brought a
full-time trade - union official
from Sheffield. After the forced
withdrawal, on headquarters’
advice, of the official Liberal
candidate, and the appearance of
an unofficial and pathetically
independent Liberal, the contest
developed into a ding-dong
struggle between two vast or-
ganisations. Neither the Tory
nor the I.abor candidate was re-
markable for political esteem or
platform personality. The battle
followed the usual form, with
Cabinet Ministers on tap to
address meetings, including a
“turn” by Mr. Shinwell. A note
of tragedy stunned the voters at
f&e last minute, for the wife of
the Labor candidate, who had
pluckily come to her husband’s
side despite ill-health, died early
in the morning of polling-day.
Labor won, by a larger margin
than was expected, polling 1000
fewer votes than in 1945 but
obtaining a majority of 4000,
which was a reduction of 5000
on the 1945 figure.
Boom Within Crisis
Two explanations offer them-
selves. The first is economic. It
is boom-time in the West Riding.
The spinners, the weaving-
sheds, the dyers and finishers, the
merchants of tops and noils, and
the long list of trades that go to
make up the textile industry
can’t put a foot wrong. Only
labor is short. Of “brass” there
is plenty.
The responsible and better-
informed consider that it may
not last. Memories of the slump
in the ’twenties are evoked, and
growing foreign competition is
mentioned. But at present it is
boom-time. Enough to say that
the attitude of the workers may
be expressed as, “If this is crisis,
let’s have more of it.” So, con-
veniently ignoring Marshall Aid
and world shortages of textiles,
Labor may have been able to
take a great deal of credit where
credit is not due.
The second explanation is
more general. The Conservative
party seems still to be a long
way from its objective: i.e., to be
respected as a people’s party. It
has not yet won the confidence
of the wavering voter. And
Labor, although on the defen-
sive, still holds powerful trump
cards in the game of election-
eering.
It rather seems that the chief
lesson to be learned from the
Australian and New Zealand
elections is that it has taken nine
and 14 years, respectively, to put
the Socialists out. In Britain also
the pendulum may be slow to
swing. But it can truly be said
that the Australian Federal
elections have given it a
momentous jolt.
FELT & TEXTILES
OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
ADDRESS OF CHAIRMAN
(The Hon. Sir Walter Massy-Greene, K.C.M.G.)
It is with considerable pleasure
that, after a year’s operations, which
have not by any means been free
from difficulties, I am able to present
to you and comment upon a result
of which your Directors feel proud,
and which I am sure must be entirely
satisfactory to you.
You will appreciate, of course, that
while the new capital of £948,891
ordinary shares only came into the
Accounts at the close of the year
and has made no contribution to the
revenue of the Company during the
year under review, had it been raised
at the beginning of the year instead
of the end, the year’s profits would
have provided for the dividend at the
full current rate on the increased
capital after making similar provi-
sions for Depreciation and Taxation
and still leaving a substantial sum
for Reserves. That, I think, must
give you, our shareholders, a feeling
of confidence and satisfaction.
In commenting on the year’s results
1 am referring, as usual, to the Con-
solidated Accounts, and not to those
of the Parent Company, unless other-
wise stated.
The Net Profit of the Company
and Subsidiaries for the year ended
30th June, 1949, was £564,783, after
providing:
1. £438,504 for Depreciation, in-
cluding Special Depre-
ciation, £180,313* and
2. £480,306 for Taxation
£918,810
The corresponding figures for the
year ended 30th June, 1948, were: —
Profit £374,340 after providing:
1. £328,820 for Depreciation, in-
cluding Special Depre-
ciation, £147,268 and
2. £520,940 for Taxation
£849,760
INCREASED RESERVES
As you will have noted, out of the
Profits of the year your Directors
have added £50,000 to the General
Reserve. A similar amount has been
transferred to the Special Reserve,
making it £130,000. This Reserve
was created some years ago to meet
any emergency which might conceiv-
ably arise.
After making these appropriations,
providing for dividends and writing
off the expenses of the new issue of
Ordinary Shares in June last, there is
carried forward £257,471 to the credit
of Profit and Loss Account com-
pared with £154,901 brought forward
from the previous year. This sub-
stantial amount, together with the
Special Reserve, to which I have just
made reference, and the Tax Paid
Stock Provision of £160,000 created
at 30th June, 1948, the Board con-
siders adequate provision for any
adverse circumstances which may
arise from the abnormal conditions
through which we are now passing,
and to which I will make further
reference when commenting upon our
Woo] Companies,
The acquisition of additional assets
made it essential for us to issue
further capital, and towards the end
of the financial year it was decided,
with the consent of the Capital Issues
Committee, to make an Ordinary
issue of 949,891 Ordinary Shares in
the proportion of 1 to 2 existing
shares held, at a premium of 10/-
per share. The proceeds amounted
to £1,424,836, of which the premium
of £474,945 has been placed to
Capital Reserve. Whilst the issue has
been of importance to the Company
in maintaining its Capital structure
on a sound basis, it has also been of
benefit to shareholders in providing
them with an opportunity of acquir-
ing new Ordinary Shares on a very
favourable basis.
Reserves and Accumulated Profits
have increased from £1,302,940 to
£1,922,358.
PROPRIETARY LINES
Footwear and Accessories : In
the Footwear section of our business
the year under review has been satis-
factory. We have derived much
benefit from the manufacture of
several popular Proprietary lines and
the methods of distribution we have
established. We have added to the
number of our Proprietary lines and
to the volume of production of these,
which have found ready acceptance
in the trade. Our use of the latest
methods and improvements, supplied
us by overseas manufacturers, is
proving of considerable value, and I
anticipate that these will be reflected
in the results for the current year.
We have found the policy of de-
centralising plants of great advantage,
and, as indicated in my previous
Address to you, we have extended
our operations in the country areas,
both in New South Wales, Victoria
and Western Australia.
Felt: Woollen Felt production has
increased during the year, but we are
still unable to fully meet the current
demand. We have a definite pro-
gramme for expansion, which we
consider will enable us adequately to
cater for the requirements of the
trade, but these plans have been de-
layed through unavoidable difficul-
ties. When the new factories are
completed and the new plants are in
operation, we shall have a larger
volume and variety of products.
Hair Felt production has been con-
siderably increased already, and we
are now in a better position to meet
requirements.
Carpets: In my report last year,
I referred to building operations at
Tottenham for the British Australian
Carpet Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
The new building to house Axminster
looms has now been completed, and
from the looms already erected we
are obtaining a satisfactory produc-
tion. This production will be pro-
gressively stepped up as further
Axminster looms are received from
England and are put to work. Fur-
ther buildings are being erected at
Tottenham to house the Wilton looms
at present operating at our Footscray
Mills.
Even with the present amount of
production, the activities of the
British Australian Carpet Manufac-
turing Co. Pty. Ltd. can be regarded
as helping very materially towards the
alleviation of the floor covering
shortage in Australia. Very favour-
able comment has been made by the
trade on the excellence of the quality
and the designs and the colour
combinations of the Carpets being
produced by this subsidiary,
DAVID GADT & CO, PXY. DTD.
Reference is made in the Directors’
Report to this newly acquired sub-
sidiary, which manufactures wad-
dings, glazed wadding, flock and
kindred products. This business fits
very well into our group of enter-
prises, and is of considerable value
to the Company in various activities.
Since our acquisition of this busi-
ness, improvements have been made
by us in the quality and quantity of
the goods produced.
J. J. DAVIES & CO, PTV. DTD.
This also is a subsidiary recently
taken over, and is referred to in the
Directors’ Report last year as having
been acquired during the year ended
30th June, 1948. It is of especial
value to us as a supplier of important
materials for the Footwear Trade.
Certain materials are also being pro-
duced for other trades, which I think
are likely to be of value to us in
the future. *
Here, also, additions have been
made to the buildings and plant at
Murrumbeena, Victoria.
SPINNING, WEAVING AND
CDOTHING
The Spinning and Weaving activi-
ties have been extended during the
year under review, and attractive
ranges of woollen and worsted fabrics
are being produced for both men’s
and women’s wearing apparel. A
new Finishing plant is in the process
of being installed in premises nearing
completion at Tottenham to service
our Weaving Mills at Bentleigh and
Daylesford.
The production of multiple-fitting
suits has been developed satisfac-
torily, and with the more selective
types of material becoming available,
we are able to offer a wider and more
attractive range.
WOOD
Your Company, with its Sub-
sidiaries’ large Scouring and Carbon-
ising Establishments in New South
Wales, Victoria and South Australia,
and Wool Combing Mills in Mel-
bourne, constitutes by far the largest
Processor of Wool in the 'Common-
wealth.
A considerable proportion of the
Wools purchased by your Organisa-
tion are for its essentfel manufactur-
ing requirements. Scoured and Car-
bonised Wools, Wool Tops and Noils
produced by your Subsidiary Wool
Companies are used by our own
Textile Mills, which in turn sell a
large proportion of their productions
to our Footwear, Knitting and
Weaving Companies, the latter selling
some of their materials to our cloth-
ing factories. Wools other than for
our own manufacturing companies
are purchased against firm orders for
our products received from cus-
tomers, and are held for the fulfil-
ment of contracts. As practically all
of your Company’s wools are pur-
chased either for its own manufactur-
ing requirements or against actual
sales made to its customers, it is
apparent that our Wool Companies
are established and conducted on a
sound basis. Any fall in Wool prices,
we consider, has been adequately
provided for by the special reserves
set aside, to which I have already
referred, to meet any contingencies.
COMPANY A LARGE DOLLAR
EARNER
Your Organisation has an expert
and experienced staff of buyers, and
a well established world-wide selling
organisation. Our overseas Represen-
tatives in each country keep us in
close contact with the Textile Mills
who are the customers for our Wool
products which we sell for export. A
considerable percentage of these are
supplied regularly to manufacturers
in Canada, U.S.A., and other hard
currency countries, and consequently
your Company is a very large Aus-
tralian earner of dollars and hard
currency, contributing appreciably to
the national economy.
INCREASED DEMAND FOR
EXPORTS
During the year under review,
your Managing Director, Mr. Cecil
Rhodes-Smith, paid a visit overseas,
spending a considerable time person-
ally renewing contacts with the prin-
cipal Woollen and Worsted textile
manufacturers, which has resulted in
the further consolidation of our
business with them. There is a large
and increasing demand from every
country for our products, and I am
happy to state that our Wool Com-
panies have established for them-
selves an extremely high reputation,
both for quality and service, and our
Standardised Wool Types compare
more than favourably with those
produced in any other part of the
world.
INDUSTRIAL AND ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS
Up to the commencement of the
Coal Strike at the end of June last,
we experienced very little disturbance
in our manufacturing during the year.
In common with nearly all business
concerns and people in all walks of
life, we have felt the effects of the
serious stoppage caused by the Coal
Strike, but mostly, in the two months
immediately following the end of the
financial year we are reviewing.
Since that time trading has been satis-
factory. The inequity of this major
industrial stoppage and the tentative
and hesitating manner in which it
was handled by those responsible
must be too recently in your minds
to need any emphasis by me, but it
does forcibly indicate the need for
constant vigilance by responsible citi-
zens, and by both State and Federal
Governments, against the subversive
lawlessness of a minority bent on
disruption.
COMPETITIVE CONDITIONS
RETURN
As I have mentioned earlier, com-
petitive conditions now exist in some
sections of your business, and I will
welcome their return as a prelude to
unfettered and competitive trading.
In those trades in which there are
adequate supplies of merchandise, the
general position is that there is no
further need for price or other con-
trols. I realise there are certain basic
raw materials such as, in our case,
leather, in which the world prices
have soared to such an extent that
some local control is needed to pro-
tect the Australian economy, but
there is a strong tendency to retain
controls and price margins as a per-
manent policy rather than a tem-
porary economic expedient. It is
vital for the Australian community to
have the maximum of freedom in
order to give full scope for its indus-
trial enterprise and imagination, A
system which merely provides mar-
gins of profits to arrive at prices is*
inconsistent with a maximum effort,
and can never give the country
maximum production.


Public Notice.
HERBERT MAHER Deceased.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme
Court of Western Australia made in suit
M. No. 20 of 1948 intituled In the matter
of the estate of HERBERT MAHER de-
ceased intestate and in the matter of the
Rules of the Supreme Court 1909 Between
THE WEST AUSTRALIAN TRUSTEE
EXECUTOR & AGENCY COMPANY
LIMITED Plaintiff and FLORENCE
MAUD MAHER and others Defendants
whereby the following enquiry was directed
namely Who upon the death of the above-
named HERBERT MAHER (son of PAT-
RICK JOHN MAHER and SARAH
MAHER formerly CUNNINGHAM) who
died intestate on the first day of Feb-
ruary 1948 were entitled to share in the
distribution of the property and estate of
which he died possessed and the several
proportions in which they were entitled to
share therein and if any such persons are
since dead who are their legal personal
representatives NOTICE IS HEREBY
GIVEN that all persons claiming to be
entitled under such enquiry as next-of-km
of the said HERBERT MAHER late of 26
Walcott Street Mount Lawley in the State
of Western Australia Gentleman Retired
Storekeeper deceased and formerly of
Hobart in the State of Tasmania are on
or before the 24th day of February 1950
to send by prepaid letter post to THE
WEST AUSTRALIAN TRUSTEE EX-
ECUTOR & AGENCY COMPANY
LIMITED C/o S. E. TIPPETT ESQ.
Solicitor of West Australian Chambers 104
St. George’s Terrace Perth Western Aus-
tralia their full Christian names and sur-
names addresses and descriptions and full
particulars of their claims and must
attend personally or by their Solicitors be-
fore me at my Chambers Supreme Court
Perth aforesaid on Friday the 10th day of
March 1950 at 10.30 o’clock in the fore-
noon the day appointed for hearing and
adjudicating on such claims And in de-
fault thereof will be peremptorily ex-
cluded from participation in the distribu-
tion of the estate of the said deceased
Claimants residing out of Western Aus-
tralia must with their particulars of
claims send the name and address of a
person in Perth Western Australia to
whom notices can be sent. —G. J.
BOYLSON, Master.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO WALLACE LAWRENCE HAMILTON
late of 57 Belgrave Street Waverley.—
TAKE NOTICE that VERA MAY HAMIL-
TON has filed Petition for Divorce No.
906 of 1949 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the Sixth day of March
1950 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from JOSEPH H Mc-
DOUGALL & CO., Solicitors, of 4 Castie-
reagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J-
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
;RIC UNMAOK of Brisbane, alter 40
ears in America, is visiting Australia
arly, in 1950. Old personal fnends
lease write me at 635 Victoria Street,
lan Francisco, California, U«S»A*
HORTEN.—Anyone knowing the where-
bouts of next-of-kin of WILLIAM
HORTEN, a son of THOMAS and
USAN SHORTEN, of Murragh, Co.
ork, who arrived in Australia in year
897, are asked to communicate with
. J. PURCELL, Solicitor, 66 King Street,
ydiiey, where information to their advan-
age may be obtained.
THE SERVICE MAN
In the Troubled Orient.
“Ek Dum”: Important moves
are in train in China following
the visit of Mao, the Chinese
Communist to Moscow.
It has been left to the world to
believe, on the evidence allowed
to drift out of Moscow, that
there is serious difficulty between
the Chinese leaders and the
Soviet Union Government over
the export of food from Man-
churia to Russia, which is caus-
ing embarrassment to the rulers
of China.
The difficulty is about as
serious as that sometimes set up
between a recumbent cockroach
and a pedestrian who has it
under his foot.
The most likely interpretation,
in the light of similar differences
and their aftermaths in other
countries, is that the two ruf-
fians are creating a smokescreen
behind which they can plan to
capitalise their assets in India,
Burma, Malaya, Siam (where the
organisation of revolutionary
plans seems to be in train), and
particularly in Indo-China and
Indonesia, in which the new ex-
collaborator Government has
just taken office with Soekarno
as President and Hatta as
“Premier.”
The strength or weakness of
the Communist regime and the
thoroughness of the occupation
of the southern part of China
were illustrated on December 19
when Chinese Nationalists re-
captured Kungming in about
half an hour, with about enough
troops to clean up a peach-tree in
full fruit.
Meanwhile the war has broken
out between the Americans anc
the Russians in the Allied
Council for Japan, where Mr.
Sebald, the U.S. chairman, came
to life after General Derevyanko
had let loose some propaganda
about the proposed United States
use of Japanese as “cannon-
fodder” in a “capitalist war.”
Mr. Sebald said that, on a
tabulated list of 125 Japanese
prison-camps in Soviet Russia—
in which, of course, the prisoners
were being held in flat defiance
of agreements with the other
Allies—it was reported that
51,532 prisoners had died from
malnutrition and communicable
diseases.
In the Amur region, 3000
p.-0.-w. were reported dead out
of 11,000.
Japanese p.-0.-w. were refused
permission to carry lists of dead
home, but the Japanese Govern-
ment had already issued certi-
ficates of death for 60,000 in
Russian camps, and Mr. Sebald
gave the estimated number of
p.-0.-w. who had died under
Russian control in the winter of
1945 as 270,000. He concluded:
If we accept in all their gruesome-
ness the full implications of this
ghastly account we can arrive at
the heartrending conclusion that
374,041 Japanese, formerly prisoners-
of-war in Soviet Union hands, are
now dead.
The Russians’ reply to the
charges was not a denial. Their
delegates merely walked out of
the conference, and a suggestion
by Colonel Hodgson, Aus-
tralia’s representative, that
Switzerland be asked to investi-
gate the charges has been
adopted by General MacArthur,
who characterised it as a wise
“recommendation.”
Three Generals on
Russia.
“Ek Dum”: One of the most
authoritative lectures on Soviet
military strength was given a
few weeks ago in London at the
Royal United Service Institution
by Major - General Richard
Hilton, who was military attache
with the Russians at. Potsdam
within the past few months and
before that for: two years in
Moscow, which he left about
the middle of 1948. Added
authority was lent to the lec-
ture by the presence of F.-M.
Lord Wavell in the chair, he
himself being a noted authority
of pre-war vintage on Russian
defence, who shared the discus-
sion of the lecturer with General
Martel, Britain’s greatest tank
authority and its only officer to
see the Russian front-line in
World War 11.
General Hilton emphasised
that nowhere could the condi-
tions for a study of local mili-
tary organisation be worse than
in Moscow, where all military
attaches were treated candidly as
spies and where “not once
during my sojourn was I ever
invited to attend any military
parade, exercise or demonstra-
tion” (other than the biennial
ceremonial parades in Red
Square). Neither was he in-
vited into any camp or barracks
or into any private house of a
Soviet officer. Letters asking
for the mildest facilities, avail-
able usually to every military
attachd, including the Russians,
in every civilised country in the
World were ignored completely.
There is reason in the Rus-
sian viewpoint, for, according to
the lecturer, the Soviet Union
Government—that group of‘un-
surpassed apostles of peace, ac-
cording to the Australian Com-
munist party “regard the
whole country and its population
as being one vast war machine,”
and “there is consequently
hardly a single activity of social
or economic life (except per-
haps the ballet) which does not*
in their view, have some bearing
upon the nation’s Readiness for
war or otherwise.” Practically
everything that goes on, there-
fore, is a military secret. To
“ask a peasant what the potato
crop is like would certainly be
regarded as an act of economic
espionage.”
The General declared that
“this intensive emphasis upon
security cannot fail to give
foreign observers the impression
that the Soviet High Command’s
overruling anxiety is to conceal
the true state of affairs, not only
militarily, but also socially and
economically.” However, he
says it is not necessary to take
too gloomy a view of Soviet
success in keeping the truth from
attaches, since any old soldier
who is reasonably observant is
bound to pick up information.
The Russian Forces
The conception of a senior
Russian officer of the Soviet
forces would, the lecturer be-
lieved, not be along the normal
lines of Western countries. IJe
would not think of the Navy,
Army and Air Forces as
separate bodies.
He would divide the forces
into (a) Defence Forces —re-
garded as a single force and
weapon ; ( b ) the “Rear” —the
whole nation or industrial and
agricultural • front; (c) the
M.V.D., the essential security
service police, whose main job
is to keep the home front up to
the mark ; (d) the Fifth Column,
“encompassing subversive ac-
tivities of all kinds abroad —ac-
tivities which might cover any-
thing from open civil war down
to the dissemination of a de-
featist or ‘go-slow’ policy among
the dupes of Communism.”
This would embrace, inter alia,
the organisation of partisans in
enemy countries which Russia
happened to be fighting or in-
tended to fight. No Russian
general would think any more
of planning war without these
ingredients than an air-minded
general would of organising
military operations without air
liaison.
Of fifth - column activities
General Hilton says only that
he wishes to emphasise that
“These enter into their calcula-
tions just as much as tanks,
artillery, submarines or any other
recognised implement of war.”
The M.V.D. the Kingpin
Internally the M.V.D. is the
kingpin of Russian war or-
ganisation, since “without it the
whole thing would collapse like
a pack of cards.” It is a com-
plete and separate fighting force
with every arm —tanks, artillery,
air-lift —provided. It gets its re-
sults by terror and ensures suc-
cess by control of the main in-
ternal Intelligence Service, There
can be no doubt about the grip
which this sinister body has on
Soviet life in general, even on
that of the armed forces. It runs
the slave camfcs as well as the
munition factories. It even runs
the fire brigades.
The ambitions of the Russian
Government seem to be reflected
in their defence force titles.
Use is made outside Russia
of the name “Soviet Army,
Navy, etc.,” that being some-
thing which might be applied to
a world army based on the
Soviet system, in which Powers
or rebellious fractions outside
the U.S.S.R, can share. The
word “Russian” is never pre-
fixed to the names of the sec-
tions of the armed forces of the
“You fella see 'um big white bird fall down longa scrub?"
Union. In Russia itself the name
“Red” Army, etc., though
officially abolished by decree,
continues in common use.
Air Force Factors
As with the bulk of Con-
tinental nations, the Army is the
predominant factor in defence,
and in this the Air Force can be
included —or could have been a
very little while ago. The Rus-
sian conception of the use of
the Air Force is that it is a tac-
tical adjunct of the land forces.
There was no strategic bombing
by the Russians during the last
war, though they have recently
developed a claim that they were
not only the first to bomb Ber-
lin but that they did the greatest
damage of any Ally to that capi-
tal, which their bombers scarcely
saw, except perhaps on belated
reconnaissances. The, Russians
now have some heavy, long-
distance bomber squadrons, but
they “firmly believe that the
correct use of air power is
almost 100 per cent, direct par-
ticipation in the land battle.”
The. Air Force is largely re-
cruited from Dosav, which or-
ganises innumerable light aero-
plane flying clubs and gives
pilots their initial training. This
training is very elementary in-
deed, but it at least produces
millions of air - minded
youngsters.
So far as weapons go. General
Hilton, from what he saw of
units and formations on the
road, pronounces them “robust,
practical and up to date,” the
weapons far better than the
transport. Observation inclines
to confirm in him the opinion
held by most of those with ex-
perience that«the Russian is not
a good mechanic, or even sym-
pathetic to his machine.
The Test of Discipline
Discipline is described as
novel “comradeship [of the
Communist variety] when off
duty combined with a sort of
Prussian ferocity in all official
dealings between one rank and
another.” There is no service in
the world in which difference in
rank means so much, and the lec-
turer said that, for example, at a
conference presided over by a
full colonel, it would be un-
thinkable for a half-colonel to
express an opinion unasked, even
if he were an expert.
This diverges very widely from
modern Western and German
General Staff technique —even
when the Wehnnacht was at its
most Prussian it was common
for comparatively junior officers
to be entrusted with specialist
planning and courses.
Russian military discipline and
morale are reported as good,
though there are some bad units,
especially in Germany. Dress
and general smartness of soldiers
in the vicinity of Moscow com-
pare favorably with that in
Western Armies.
General Martel on Strength
General Martel, who was
military attache during the war,
declared in comment on the
lecture that “right up to the end
of the war the Russian Army
was almost completely un-
mechanised,” and “they could
hardly find one motorised
division to go with their tanks.”
From his information, he said,
the portion was much the same
today, a dictum which, coming
from so great an authority,
makes a laughing-stock of nearly
every daily newspaper in the
world; almost all of them were
inclined to swallow Moscow’s
tales of super-mechanisation not
only hook, line and sinker but
sometimes with the rod and fish-
ing-basket as well.
Russian railways, according to
General Martel, are “in a pretty
shaky state,” the roads are gener-
ally bad and the Russians do not
look after their lorries very well.
General Martel added:
I do not think Russia is going to
attack us for some time yet, but if
she did she could march up to the
Middle East or into Europe with
something like 300 divisions —divi-
sions with quite good weapons, but
they are unmechanised —they have
horse-drawn transport. To meet this,
what are we doing? The Western
Union is raising a conscript man-
power army which can only be about
one-third the strength of the Russian
forces. It can, therefore, have no
chance of success. Surely the right
answer is to raise a highly-mobile,
armored and mechanised army of
professional soldiers... .capable of
attacking the Russians, who have
little mobility, on the flank and rear,
and defeating them.
No Radar, No G.C.A.
Incidentally, General Hilton
declared that airborne troops
were not used by the Russians
during World War II despite all
the nonsense written in the Press,
and that though they were trying
to correct their deficiencies in
this direction they had not gone
very far, since “they do not go
in for radar and all those things
for guiding aeroplanes to aero-
dromes.” But as on the ground
they have little regard for human
life.
If they believe that an objec-
tive is worth a ruthless sacrifice
of human life, they have no
hesitation in making it. Civil
airlines, according to General
Hilton, are so backward that they
are flying only in the old-
fashioned way, guided by fol-
lowing a road or a railway or
some specific feature of the
countryside.
Simplified Needs
Field-Marshal Wavell closed
the discussion with general
agreement with the points made
by Generals Hilton and Martel,
but he issued the much-needed
warning that though Russian
transport is a weak spot in their
organisation, the Russians do
not have the same sort of trans-
port requirements as civilised
Western forces. They “do not
worry much about the welfare
of their troops.” They have no
elaborate N.A.A.F.I. or P.X.,
Y.M.C.A. or Red Cross organi-
sation to carry about. They do
not vary rations, and they live
off the country like locusts. They
don’t waste transport
cinemas or similar amenities. s
Also, they do not bother their
heads about their wounded.
They live generally a simpler
military life than Western armies
—something comparable with
that of Marlborough’s men.
In the last war, F.-M. Wavell
believed, casualties wefe in the
neighborhood of 15,000,000, and
(he said): “I have never heard
the figure put much lower than
11,000,000 or 12,000,000.”
His summary of the Russian
attitude was that while it had
seemed to be largely based on
fear of attack, “that does not
mean to say that it is not ex-
tremely dangerous, because you
have here a very highly armed
and quite ruthless nation and,
if anything does set them off,
they may quite well attack us.”


Women’s letters
From Melbourne
The Centaur War Nurses’ Memorial
Trust has decided to award, in 1950, a
scholarship valued at £350, tenable for
one year, which will enable the success-
ful applicant to obtain a diploma in
either teaching or hospital administration
at the College of Nursing, Australia. This
scholarship is another indication of the
facilities available in Australia to
members of the nursing profession. Miss
Hughes Jones, secretary of the Trust,
will be pleased to supply information
regarding the scholarship to those in-
terested in furthering their nursing educa-
tion. , Telephone, Windsor 7494,
The Christmas Eve party given for the
Elizabeth Arden staff took the form of a
buffet dinner-party at Menzies, the final
course of which was an artistic gem. A
tower of meringue was capped with holly
and filled with raspberries, ice-cream and
liqueur, and around this was a scattered
garden of crystallised cherries and dates
and illuminated pale-pink rosebuds.
Hostess was Dorothea Ganly; her black
moss-crepe frock had a wide portrait
neckline. Among the guests were Judy
Willing, whose black frock was trimmed
with jet beads; Violet Street, her black
faille cocktail frock having a deep square
neckline finished at one side with orchids ;
Mrs, I. J. Morrisy, in powder-blue crepe
frock and black velvet hat; Mamie Hall,
her linen frock blue, her wide-brimmed
hat black; Lyla Owen, in a black crepe
taffeta-trimmed suit; Dorothy Bainbridge,
apple-green and blue her shot taffeta
frock; Wyn Thirsk, whose navy-and-
white-floral frock was worn under a navy
coat; and Gene Clarke, whose black faille
suit sported mist-blue collar and cuffs.
Mrs. Harold Rabling, just back from
America, after having been abroad for
five months, says that at the New York
premiere of the Sadler’s Wells ballet the
short evening-dress completely van-
quished the more formal, full-length
gown. Coiffures were short and very
smart. While in Paris Mrs. Rabling
attended the Christian Dior parade of
autumn and winter fashions. Skirts are
back to the old 16in.-from-the-ground
length and are mostly cut straight and
slim. Coats are still bulky, but many of
them are pinched in at the waist and
finished with a narrow belt. Becoming
popular is the trend towards contrasting
colors in the jackets and skirts of suits.
In Rome Mrs. Rabling found the world’s
best-dressed women. Here, black for
evening wear is the favorite among
elegant womerf? with the decorative cock-
tail- or evening-hat supplying the only
touch of color.
Mrs. George Mendes’s Toorak home
was decorated with pastel-toned
hydrangeas, gladioli, pale-yellow arum-
lilies and Christmas-lifies for the buffet-
luncheon she gave for about 50 guests.
The hostess was in dove-grey-and-white-
printed silks. Lady Connelly’s pastel-blue
ensemble had darker blue accessories.
Mrs. A. Silk’s frock of black faille had
a side-drape of velvet-embossed taffeta;
her tiny Toreador cap of black velvet
was finished with veiling. Black faille
fashioned the diamente-buttoned jacket-
suit worn by Mrs, A. E. Hotchkiss. Pale-
mauve grosgrain formed the edge and
lining of the black picture hat Mrs. M,
Nathan wore with her black frock, Mrs.
E. Shilliday flew ospreys from her green
velvet toque, which was teamed with a
matching green crepe frock. A Pierre
Balmain jacket-suit of black faille was
the choice of Mrs. F. Irvine, A grey
dressmaker-suit of fine wool was worn
by Mrs. Alex. Finlay with a matching
wide-brimmed grey hat. Pastel-toned
chenille dotted veiling gave neat effect
to the small white hat Mrs. Ken Hooper
wore with her black frock.
Many prominent women have offered
their services on the committee which is
to arrange a gala night for the Australian
Guild of Fashion Designers at the Ex-
hibition Building on February 16, pro-
ceeds from which will be donated to the
Y.W.C.A. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
J. S. Disney, becomes president of the
committee, joint chairmen of which are
Mesdames Essington Lewis and Jim Fitz-
gerald. Early in the New Year Mrs.
Fitzgerald takes over the chairmanship
of the Y.W.C.A. Appeals Committee
from Mrs. Essington Lewis, who is re-
tiring. There is quite an imposing
number of vice-presidents for the func-
tion—Lady Connelly, Mrs. T. C. Rentoul,
president of Y.W., and the general secre-
tary, Meysie Law, and Mesdames Wallace
Mitchell and Karl Kumm. Ticket-secre-
taries are Mesdames Eric Cottrell, S.
Carse, Phillip Luby, John Liston, and
Betty Wallace Mitchell, Nan Dixon, Julia
Kerr and Mary Elizabeth Fitzgerald.
Tickets are one guinea each and prefer-
ential booking may be made at the
Y.W.C.A., Russell-street.
Mrs. Hoban, who guides the destinies
of the Pilgrim Theatre, has a fine pro-
gramme teed up for 1950. It includes
Restoration plays and some of Shak-
speare’s lesser-known works. These she
discussed at a party she gave at the
Oriental, and at which she wore a grass-
green jacket-suit and a small flower-
trimmed hat. Mrs. J. V. Stevens added
a matching upturned hat to her beige
gabardine suit. Mrs. Dan Reddan, who
appears often at the Pilgrim Theatre and
who is now busy rehearsing for a Little
Theatre production, wore a slate-grey
tailored suit and a new short coiffure,
Mrs. G. Myles wore a suit of wool in
American-beauty tonings.
At the luncheon-party she gave at the
Australia Mrs. Wallace Mitchell wore a
black ensemble. Mrs. Norman Spry’s
tailored beige suit had black accessories.
Her sister, Mrs. Eric Cottrell, topped her
beige outfit with a coat which had swing-
back tent-lines. Mrs. A. Athorn had a
feather mount in her pale-beige hat she
wore with a black suit. Mrs. E. J. Carse
allied to her grey flannel suit a black hat
trimmed with pink and white roses and
black tulle.
Many Australian airmen saw the girl
in this Harry Jay photo while they were
in London and she was appearing at the
Windmill Theatre—she is Valerie Tandy,
who, on the first night of “The Love
Racket,” sang and danced her way into
the affections of a big audience. Valerie,
who co-stars with Arthur Askey in this
Tivoli production, has played leads with
Tommy Trinder in the Palladium revue
“Here, There and Everywhere” and
played second lead with Vera Pearce and
Leslie Henson in “Bob’s Your Uncle,”
which ran for over a year at the Savoy.
Valerie also appeared in the Royal Com-
mand performance at the Palladium in
1947.
Among the audience who enjoyed this
latest Tiv, show were Wanda Shilliday,
whose royal-blue tulle frock had a multi-
colored striped taffeta sash; her mother,
Mrs. J. E. Shilliday, whose gown was of
black Chantilly lace ; Mrs. Arthur Askey,
her slimly-cut gown of heavy white’
cloque; Anthea Askey, in a white net
frock mounted on white taffeta; Mrs.
Frank Martin, whose draped close-fitting
gown was of apple-green taffeta; and
Mrs. David Martin, in a short evening-
dress of blue-and-white-spotted faille.
From Sydney
Here is the right thought for the New
Year. It is from the closing passage of
Marguerite Steen’s latest novel; Twilight
on the Floods: —
It’s better to have a hard try, even if
you don’t succeed, than just let things
slide. There’s always the chance you might
set a ball rolling. If indifference is not
among the Seven Deadly Sins, then it
ought to be. Tell the truth, be loyal to
your friends and just to your enemies.
Try to make sure that nothing you do is
prompted by self-interest, but governed by
your own sense of right and wrong.
Which all seems a very good idea to take
with us around the corner where the
New Year 1950 is waiting for us.
Sheila Macdonald, only daughter of
the A. S. Macdonalds, of Wahroonga,
and Clifford Johnstone exchanged their
wedding vows in the church of St.
John’s, Wahroonga, last Friday evening.
The bride’s frock, which had come from
Paris, was of white broderie Anglaise ;
her veil was a three-tiered cloud of tulle.
Her two attendants, Ann Challinor and
Betty Mclntosh, wore bouffant pastel-
toned marquisette and carried Cecil
Brunner roses, Bruce Ogilvie was best
man. The wedding reception was at The
Crest, Wahroonga, where a great com-
pany of guests was received by the bride’s
parents. Mrs. Macdonald’s frock was of
black lace embroidered with white
marguerites, and with it was worn a
picturesque black crinoline hat.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite, after
waiting and waiting and waiting at Wyn-
yard for a tram to Circular Quay, re-
marked : “You know, I think Mr. Winsor
has a tram-fixation!”
No one will be more pleased than
Helen Keller and her friend Polly Thom-
son over the recent opening of the Helen
Keller Hostel for Blind Women. When
she paid her unforgettable visit last year
to Australia Helen laid the foundation-
stone, and now this home is housing 20
guests in rooms air-conditioned and
artistically furnished. The gates at the
entrance of the hostel are a memorial to
the late A. A. Scott, who was for some
time president of the Blind Institute,
which he had served as a member of the
council for 40 years. His son. Max
Scott, was the architect. The Helen
Keller is in Waimea-avenue, Woollahra,
not far from The Haven, whose guests
are also blind women. Courage is the
keynote of the lives of these ladies. They
do everything they can to help them-
selves. One young girl even comes and
goes to a job in town every day. It is
connected with the winding of films, and
it is work that must be done in a
darkened room.
Past and present members of the N.S.W.
Cookery Teachers’ Association met before
Christmas at David Jones’s to welcome
home Grace Ohlson, who has just com-
pleted her travelling scholarship to Great
Britain and Europe. Earlier this month
a farewell party to the president, Ivy
Rees, was held. She left by Orion for
Great Britain and the Continent and will
study matters relating to the subject of
home economics, particularly in regard
to work among blind and spastic girls,
as it is recognised that so much can be
done in this particular sphere to assist
the physically handicapped.
Alice Prowse, who is one of the city’s
music personalities, rounded off a
year that took in organising the
highly-commended night of Christmas
carols for the Australian-American Asso-
ciation, with a recital by her students.
This was a last week’s fixture and bene-
fited the Golden Fleece kindergarten, of
which Alice is a vice-president. Last
Friday evening Alice entertained artists,
hosts and visitors who had made the
carol night such an outstanding success.
This Letter offers congratulations to
Dame Enid Lyons and to the Cabinet
which she will grace with her wit and
her charm. The Dame is not only up
to the minute in politics; she is right on
the tick with regard to fashion. In the
first photographs to hand of her as vice-
president of the Executive Council she is
wearing with her smart lightweight suit
a string of pearls, and, strain of elections
and all, she wears the pearls knotted in
quite the latest style.
The Girl Guides are having a busy
time. On December 21 they welcomed
Sea Ranger Valerie Martin, on her way
home to Maoriland from Juliette Low
camp in Switzerland. Then there
was the Christmas-party, and just
as this Letter goes to press they are pre-
paring for the Inter-State Guide Camp to
be held at Albion Park from January 9
till January 16. Miss B. E. Stevens,
Commissioner for Guides in N.S.W., will
be camp commandant. From Tasmania
will come a contingent of Guides by air.
Other inter-State Guides will arrive in
Sydney two days before the opening of
the camp, and remain here for two days
after it closes. Hospitality will be pro-
vided by parents of local Guides, and on
January 11 the campers will be the guests
of Mrs. A. S. Hoskins, of Gleniffer-Brae,
KeiraviUe, On January 12 his Excellency
the Governor and Mrs. Northcott will
entertain the campers at their country
residence, Hillview, Sutton Forest,
The Christmas-party at the R.S.Y.S. at
Kirribilli swung along in its usual merry
way last Wednesday evening. Members
and associates crowded the verandas and
the drawing-rooms, but not the southern
lounge. Here, afar from the madding
throng, resident club members could fol-
low tneir accustomed routine without
party influence. This year the fabulous
turkeys and monster hams were carved in
the dining-room facing the harbor.
President of the associates, Mrs. F.
White, brought a party which included
young relations. Mrs. Don Taylor was
another family-party hostess. In Her
group was sister Mrs. Marquis. The
A, FitzHardinges were there; so
was Mrs. Burgess. Major and Mrs.
Manley entertained. In their jolly party
were the L. A. Robbs, Colonel and Mrs.
Charles Long, the Donnas of H.M.V.
Captain and Mrs. Hayter were among
the many passing from the hall where the
Christmas-tree sprouted among the
steering-wheel and the compass to the
dining-room.
The squadron’s new commodore,
Charles Lloyd Jones, and Mrs. Jones were
not there. Unfortunately Mrs. Jones had
been taken off to St. Luke’s the previous
day. Friends, however, will be glad to
hear that her stay in hospital will not be
prolonged.
On December 24 over 350 deaf-and-
dumb athletes from other States arrived
in Sydney and joined with deaf-and-dumb
contestants from New South Wales in a
sports carnival, the largest event of its
kind ever held in Australia. This carnival,
which continues till January 2, will show
the general public the extent to which
deaf-and-dumb men and women partici-
pate in sport.
The Institute of Journalists’ lunches are
becoming less formal. Last week’s get-
together under the guidance of Alex
Wilkie, just-elected president, was a
happy affair. Former president Charlie
Bean, journalist, war correspondent
and historian, was the day’s speaker,
and reminisced happily. Courage is
something that thrills Dr. Bean, so he
told of the physical endurance of old
friends such as Clarrie Falkiner, who as
a youth on the “S. M. Herald” carried
on for a week or more in the grip of
typhoid. He told of Isabel Gullett, then
a very young girl, who took up brother
Harry’s London assignment on the old
“Telegraph,” and carried out the work
nobly, though in the first weeks she did
it from a sick bed.
He told of his own early days in
London, of the Houndsditch murders, of
a character called “Peter the Painter” of
Sydney-street, and of Whitechapel, some-
how making it all sound like a Conan
Doyle thriller. It was all as easy as a
smoke-oh yarn,
Christmas Eve probably sa\v this
city bare of tinsel, balloons and sausage-
rolls, with all the other glories that make
a schoolchild’s Christmas - party. All
around Sydney parents were giving outsize
merrymakings for their children’s friends.
Last Friday gumnuts and fairies. Red
Riding Hoods, goose girls and all the
other nursery-rhyme populars were loose
in the gardens of the Harold Botts’ home
in Killara. One hundred schoolmates of
daughters Moira and Maureen were hav-
ing a grand time—6o from Abbotsleigh,
40 from Cromehurst, Moira as a Gipsy
Queen, Maureen as Bo Peep, and baby
Denise as a fairy were the hostesses.
From the ground floor of David Jones’s
Elizabeth-street store to the Art Gallery
is seven floors as the lift flies. In imagina-
tion, last week they were oceans apart. In
the gallery the walls were hung with
French prints: Renoirs, Cezannes, Gau-
guins, Van Goghs. Here were cool skies
and blue-green fields, flowering chestnuts,
bits of Versailles. Here were Venetian
palazzos, and tree-lined French boule-
vards. Of course, the Gauguins palpitated
with the exotic. You can buy copies of
these prints unframed, which makes them
an easy gift for posting. Anyone with
a mind attuned to color and repose will
thrill to Van Gogh’s “Flowering Chest-
put” and “The Green Corn.”
The president and captain of Newport
Surf Life Saving Club write;
Newport Beach must have a new surf
life-saving boat (the second) to maintain
adequate safety services. Members them-
selves have provided guarantees so that a
new boat may be procured in time for the
Christmas holiday season.
It is a striking commentary that the boys
who provide the public with life safety and
first-aid measures should be called upon to
also provide the means of these services.
The only way of reimbursing their per-
sonal guarantees is by public subscription.
Anybody inclined may send a cheque to
the club, c/o P. 0., Newport Beach.


far astern. The fool! Firing from, of all
positions, down-moon!
In the few seconds before the asdic got
him the ship buzzed ; and five minutes
later, closed up for action, had settled
down again to a compact, finely-dis-
ciplined unit of calm and dreadful power
and purpose.
With James' conning her, she nosed
down her echoing asdic beam like a
bloodhound. Not at full speed, as you
see it done on the pictures, but fairly
slowly, reducing her own sounds to a
minimum, yet ready, with a full-head of
steam in her boilers, to spring forward
like an unleashed hound.
Number One had a moment, after the
first frenzy of closing up for action, to
record a memory of James. The Old
Man stood erect behind the binnacle, his
position for manoeuvring, both hands on
the compass-ring, staring straight ahead,
as if he were trying to pierce the surface
loveliness and spot the treachery beneath.
Number One knew his ears were listening
intently to the asdic-operator’s reports.
He looked, with his high-bridged nose and
the moonlight glinting on his gaunt, cap-
less head, as bald as his thumb, like a
Pharaoh chiselled from stone.
With another report of distance and
bearing from the operator, brought to his
earphones by the searching spears of
sound the destroyer was shafting from her
hull every few seconds, James gave an
order to the engine-room and ordered,
over his shoulder, “Stand-by!”
KJ UMBER ONE glanced at the
I N torpedo-man standing tensed by his
depth-charge release levers. The ship
was shuddering with speed now—she
couldn’t afford to have her vital stern too
close to what it would shortly release.
Then, with the captain’s order, “Starb’d
thrower, starb’d rails!” the ship exploded
into action.
From the throwers on her quarter-
deck two depth-charges shot out under
their propelling charge of cordite, turned
over and over in the air and entered the
sea with slight splashes; from her tail
two more dropped into the heaped-up
wash.
The ship thrust on.
All hands waited—except the shadowy
group aft who were working like mad to
reload the empty spaces. Suddenly there
was a slamming thud against her plates;
she jumped. Astern the surface of the
sea seemed to retract; a flash of intense
white light shot flatly across its face ;
then a snowy mound of water heaved up.
The mound swelled to a mountain, then
flung itself apart in great columns of
water and flying spray, high above the
ship, as the crash of the explosion
thundered into the night. Then again and
again and again, until the whole sea, con-
vulsed, seemed to rise up and meet the
night.
It seemed that nothing caught in that
maelstrom could survive. Yet the asdic-
set still sent back its moving echoes.
James turned and twisted his ship like a
hungry otter in a pool of fish, searching,
probing, depth-charging as soon as he
had his quarry set. But the Jap, though
probably shaken, possibly damaged, still
eluded them. He had plenty of water to
play with, both sideways and down, and
the general trend of the hunt was to-
wards Tunata Island, some 50 miles west.
Then they lost him. The ship walked
across the water like a cat on wet grass
listening as well as probing with her
underwater ears. Several times she
stopped, shutting down engines com-
pletely, operators straining for the least
water-borne sound, even a spanner
dropped on steel-plating. Silence. She
steamed in a wide circle, and once the
waiting bridge was electrified by a con-
tact-report. But it was too wide and fast
—a shoal of fish.
AT midnight James called for a cup of
cocoa. He conferred with his under-
study as he sipped it,
“Looks like he’s slipped us. What?
Yes, he’s probably lying doggo on the
bottom ; though he’s taking a risk at this
depth—particularly if we have opened
him up at all. What I’m worried about
are depth-charges. You can’t heave ’em
over like chicken-feed for long. Tell the
Gunner to let me know what we have
left. Now.” He finished his drink
while Number One was passing the order.
“You can fall out ‘X’ and ‘Y’ guns’
crews—tell them to sleep at the guns. The
asdic-team, of course, will remain—
what’s that?” His even voice pitched
sharply, “Smell it? Yes. By God, it is!
Oil! There!” He pointed over the bow,
towards Tunata, as he strode to the
voice-pipe.
“Port 20. Full ahead both!”
There it was, all right. A long,
stretching strain of oily scum laid out on
the running tide; a stain of life-blood
seeping up from somewhere below in the
pressured blackness of the China Sea.
“B” gun below the bridge heard the Old
Man’s voice and were closed up before
the warning call from the director was
passed. The destroyer raced along the
oil-slick, heading straight for the looming
bulk of Tunata.
James spoke from under his binoculars.
He must be making for a sheltering
cove there. He’s certainly in trouble.
Hey? Oh, you. Guns. What’s the tally?”
The Gunner, a 50-year-old ex-lower-
deckman with a face massively seamed
like a relief map, made his report lugu-
briously.
“Only four full patterns left, sir.”
If he expected an outburst he was dis-
appointed—or relieved. Not, of course,
that the shortage was any fault of his, or
of anyone’s. But James had to have more
in his head than alterations of course and
speed ; he had mentally calculated his
depth-charge expenditure, and expected
the worst.
“Well, Guns, it looks like surface
action, or ramming, or any of the laid-
down methods the book can think of —
except depth-charging. Or, maybe”
he stopped, as though he were remember-
ing something, his head propped back on
his outstretched fingers. Then he nodded
quickly, certain of his memory. “Or,
maybe, seamanship.”
Neither the first-lieutenant nor the
Gunner could be expected to follow him
there; in any case, there wasn’t time.
Within ten seconds of the lookout
sighting the black, glistening shape
shouldering from the depths ahead, both
forward mountings broke into blasting
action. A picket-fence of white spouts
stood suddenly on the sea round the sub-
marine’s conning-tower. With the next
salvo the ugly red of a hit showed
brightly against the black mass of the
island.
The Jap wasted no time. Before the
following salvo reached him he was
under. The snap-fired torpedo James
avoided easily. Then they were over his
point of submergence, and another
pattern of their precious store went
searching downwards.
'“THE destroyer swung towards Tunata,
1 now close to port, circled, and ran in
again. The asdic bearings were perfect.
Target dead ahead, moving slowly,
parallel to the island, course and depth
steady. This time they could just about
unload right on his front, or, as it were,
his top door. Nearer they raced, the
torpedoman on his release gear no less
tense than James on his reports. But
when the Old Man spoke, it was riot over
his shoulder, but to the wheel-house.
“Hard a starb’d!”
There was a note of grim triumph in
his voice, almost —had he been like any
other destroyer-driver instead of a very
dignified captain—of exultation.
When he saw Number One looking at
him in guarded surprise, James tightened
the grin on his face, as well as his dignity.
“I think, Number One, you disagree
with my tactics? I assure you, however,
we shall save three patterns of depth-
charges.”
Trust in one’s commander is a truly
wonderful, and relieving, attribute.
Number One took refuge in that and his
binoculars—if James wanted to save three
patterns, he could and would. The
youngster was equally certain that this
sudden economy would not mean any
saving so far as the hunted Jap was con-
cerned.
James brought her in again, this time
a little closer to the island. Again the
approach was text-book perfect for depth-
charge attack; and again, at the last
moment, James hauled off and circled.
Three times more the manoeuvre was
repeated, Number One, now taking
bearings on the island (the normal officer
of the watch was the asdic-officer), noting
that sometimes the ship was nearer in,
sometimes further to seaward; but
always, she was behind the crippled,
crawling, listening submarine, almost as
though James, by superb ship-handling
and use of his mechanical eyes and ears,
was shepherding his invisible target, like
a sheep-dog.
It wasn’t until, swinging his bearing-
sight on to the end of the island, Number
One caught sight of something showing
out to seaward of it, that a light burst in
his brain.
“My God,” he muttered.
I AMES heard. He half-turned his
head, smiled a little and looked down
that ridiculous, pinched nose of his.
“I see. Number One, you perceive my
object. I think we’ll have him up there
on the next run. Eh?”
Number One merely stared. He, too,
remembered now. From the island’s
near end a sub-surface arm of reef curled
shallowly outwards in a jagged hook.
Through his binoculars he could see it
clearly now —or the visible warning of it.
The tide was running strongly along
Tunata, carrying with it, helped by her
own speed, the crippled enemy. At the
edge of the reef, that savage, silent, wait-
ing trap, the tide quickened smoothly into
paws of water, with white-streaming
claws.
The ship completed her tight circling
and bore in again, picking up her target
easily.
“Let me know when the right-hand
edge bears 290,” ordered James. He
didn’t; want to follow his victim too far.
At Number One’s shout, “290, sir! ” James
swung her hard-over. Before she had
swung 20 degrees they heard it, clearly
through the still night air—a sudden,
wrenching sound, followed by the shrill
tearing of tortured steel.
Driving on at a tide-and-engine com-
bined speed of 12 knots the 1500-ton sub-
marine, virtually blind, had struck the
reef and crunched up and over, grinding
on till the jagged coral teeth dragged her
to a helple'ss stop. She lay there, bow
and conning-tower clear and dripping, a
great black slug on the reef.
“Give her another broadside,” said
James evenly. “Then send the boarding
party in the whaler. There should be
little trouble.”
'■THERE wasn’t. An hour found the
' Jap crew aboard, in the tiller-flat
under guard. On the bridge the sub., who
had taken the whaler away, was making
his report. James tiredly sipped cocoa
while he listened. When the sub. finished
he said, “Thank you,” and turned to the
chart. Number One followed him.
“A damned fine piece of work, sir, if I
may say so.”
James tried to frown, then grinned,
though, of course, with that mouth it
wasn’t a much better effort than the
frown.
“You may, Number One, Thank you.
But, my boy, it was really—as you will
agree, on reflection —largely a matter of
memory. That reef, you see. It’s the
only one on Tunata, You, too, no
doubt took pains to note it; we were due
to pass here this morning—in your
watch.”
Number One coughed, spluttered, and
withdrew from the chart-table. He had
turned over his watch to the asdic-officer,
and there was nothing to keep him on the
bridge—certainly not awkward questions.
He walked to the ladder with the sub,
“Well, you’ve seen what the old bull-
artist can do. ‘A matter of memory,’ he
says, and pulls his vinegary gin. Memory,
all right. I’d call it a matter of seaman-
ship—bloody fine seamanship—and the
old —— knows it. Eh?”
The sub., as, of course, all wise subs,
should, agreed.
THE WOOL-WINDERS
By DAVID ROWBOTHAM
THIS is really a story about a train.
City-bound, it curled gracefully
into Pymble station and stood still
while two old ladies teetered
aboard. They were dressed quite
modernly, and impressed passengers as
being two lovable, meek, bespectacled old
dears.
Both carried large handbags.
Not long out from the station one of
them opened her handbag and lifted out
a skein of wool. While her companion
held the skein professionally in hands
parted at shoulder width, palms facing
inwards, thumbs working expertly and
the fingers of each hand curtseying to
one another as the wool-strand slipped
alternately over them, she began to wind.
She started a little ball swiftly with her
shuttling fingers, then she curved three
fingers of one hand over the ball and
bound them into an arc, then slipped
them out, replaced them on the ball,
wound, and slipped them out again, re-
placed them, wound again ... ,
IT may have been a lurch, or a gust of
wind, or the fat man’s detonating
sneeze, or the animate smoke of the
bowlered man’s cigar, or there may have
been black magic in the air.
The wool broke bounds, trickled,
slithered, flew, scattered, grappled,
tangled, wrapped, seized, swathed.
Apologetically, the old ladies tried to
gather it in as it discommoded the pas-
sengers near them, and may have restored
the situation but for the sudden falling
of the handbags, open-mouthed, to the
floor. More wool was visible —green
wool, red wool, yellow wool, wool that
uncoiled and squirmed to freedom.
That wool was like a widening net
made of diabolical gum-strings. It
clung, stuck, capered. It grew and was
endless. It disgorged itself from the
handbags and vicinity of the old ladies’
laps like spiders’ webs inexhaustibly
appearing, weaving a web for human
flies, encircling and mummifying its vie-
ti m s,
The gentleman with the crutch, over-
powered by the yarn that had slithered
down the corridor to his retreat, breathed
heavily, fear beginning to show in his
eyes, and groped for his crutch, only to
touch wriggling wool. Sweat broke out
on his forehead.
The obnoxious little boy eating grapes
and spattering skin and seeds over a
frigid group on the starboard side was
caught up screaming by angling red,
green and yellow tentacles and attached
like some fanciful barber’s-pole to the
vertical rod near the door. An adoring,
berserk mother struggled towards him,
but was halted before she got any dis-
tance and forced prone to the floor,
Over her body passed straining, wrangling
feet, desperately trying to make the door,
The young thing with the bun in her
hair sobbed hysterically as the wool dis-
covered, attacked and imprisoned her.
_Wool issued from the carriage windows,
from the doors ; it wrenched several steel
bars from their sockets, it took the howl-
ing ticket-inspector with it in its migra-
tion to the roof, where he kicked like an
insect in the clutches of a colorful can-
nibal vine. Wool began to envelope the
whole train, moving sinuously from car
to car.
AS usual, the train had slowed down
preparatory to stopping at Gordon,
but as it eased itself into the platform
wool had begun to disembark and
throttle the station-master, to turn on all
the fountains and endanger the station
building by trying to shift it some feet
down the line. In a panic, and acceding
to the hoarse appeals of people on the
platform, the train had accelerated again
and swept on, dragging on woollen
leashes the station steps behind it.
It was full speed ahead now for
Wynyard.
No more stations, no more lives, could
be risked. Lindfield, Chatswood, were
mercifully ignored.
The train began to flag. Wool was at
the wheels and axles, at the electric cable,
in the driver’s eyes, at the controls. At
North Sydney an elderly gent, blue in the
face, was rolled on to the platform,
breathing stertorously. The station-
master, skipping over several lethal
strands of abandoned wool, undid the
wool noose around the victim’s neck.
The pylons on the north side of the
Harbor Bridge, exercising pathetic fallacy,
paled at the sight of an electric train, well-
nigh in its death-throes, grinding towards
them, in a constricting coeoon of carnival
wool. The bridge lost four spars, ten
rivets, much of its poise, and one
thousand six hundred and forty-two
pounds in weight as the train went over
it.
WOOL clotted the tunnel into
Wynyard, consumed workmen in the
interior, branched off and appeared two
flights down in the subway. Ends, wav-
ing like cobra-heads, came up at Town
Hall.
The train stopped- dead at Wynyard,
where, unrecognisable, moribund, it
lolled against the platform.
Rescue squads hurried to the scene.
Ambulances whined down George-street,
and the ramp at Wynyard echoed to cries
of disaster as stretcher followed stretcher
into the underground. After a legendary
struggle, rescuers broke through to the
carriage from which the dreadful dis-
semination had taken place, and the wool,
trembling like a prehistoric creature in a
death agony. It slumped and went limp,
self-weakened.
One hundred and twenty souls perished
in the tragedy; their corpses figuratively
inundated the platform as the ambulance-
bearers extricated them. The only sur-
vivors were two dear, meek, bespectacled
old ladies, discovered assiduously winding
wool in the centre carriage.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
Strange Air-lift.
Reporting from Tel Aviv, a
London “Times” correspondent
tells an almost incredible story
of one of the strangest and most
pathetic of air-lifts to date —the
flying into Israel from Aden of
25,000 Yemenis, or “Arab Jews,”
the lot of them so emaciated
that about 140 are carried in an
aircraft designed for 40 pas-
sengers.
Their average weight is about
stone!
The “Times” man states that
there was no persecution to
drive them from the land in
which their forebears lived for
about 15 centuries. Drought
played its part, but “there can
be no doubt that the main rea-
son was religious. When word
reached their remote villages
that Israel had been born
thousands immediately began to
trek to Aden. Few had seen air-
craft before, but it was written
that exiles would return to Israel
on the wings of an eagle, and
they willingly climbed on board
the strange machines. Few had
even seen a seat before, and on
the long flight to Israel most sat
on the floor.”
Pretty well all of them are
sick to a shocking degree —
about 40 per cent, have acute
malaria, one in four have tropi-
cal ulcers: “The infant mor-
tality rate among those with
parents suffering with malaria is
nearly 100 per cent.”
It says something for the
spirit alive in Israel that they
are -accepted. Apart from their
being so afflicted that the death-
rate all round is described by the
correspondent as “terribly
high,” they have to be found
some sort of shelter where
already a large proportion of
the population has to live herded
in camps. But, coming from
such conditions as they left be-
hind them, the “Arab Jews” are
not fussy: “Where the average
European immigrant is resentful
and discouraged, the Yemeni
gladly looks forward to the
winter, which he will have to
spend in an army tent with 11
others.”
The stirring spirit which can
give welcome to even such im-
migrants is further indicated by
the correspondent’s concluding
sentence: “How many more are
to come nobody knows (prob-
ably another 10,000), but the air-
lift will not stop until the last
Jew has left the Yemen.”
Shadow of the Bear.
Writing in London “Daily
Mail,” Lieut.-General Sir Giffard
Martel agrees with the rather
general British Press optimism
on Russia:
“In the first place, the Russian
(or Russianised Communist)
bosses who have been installed in
the Iron Curtain countries are
already intensely hated by many
of the ordinary folk that they
rule; so much so that in some
of these lands active resistance
movements have developed.
These movements would not re-
quire so very much encourage-
ment or assistance to burst into
open flame.
“In the second place, the
Russians themselves are beset
with real troubles. The Red
Army is very unevenly equipped,
and especially lacks mechanical
transport. The railways of the
Soviet Union are likewise in a
bad state. The Red Air Force is
formidable, though its power
has been exaggerated, and, in
any case, the industrial potential
which sustains it cannot com-
pare with that which the West
could deploy under the pressures
of war.”
On those and other grounds
the writer holds that “though the
Russian Bear casts a big shadow,
that shadow is much bigger than
the bear himself,” and “The
animal could be put back behind
the bars of his own cage a lot
more easily than is supposed.”
Also in the optimistic vein, a
London “Observer” writer notes
that, after piore than 18 months
of it, Tito continues his defiance
of the Kremlin, despite all the
sound and fury and crude threats
emanating therefrom and from
all the Cominform-controlled
capitals as well.
“It seems a little odd,” com-
ments the “Observer” writer,
“that Yugoslavia should appar-
ently be so much less frightened
of Russia than are Britain and
America; and it suggests that
Marshal Tito has his own ideas
about Soviet strength and weak-
ness.
“About Russia’s relative weak-
ness there is, or should be, no
secret. The Soviet output of
20.000. tons of steel, com-
pared with America’s 90,000,000
and our own [Britain’s]
15.000. (from a population
only a quarter the size of the
U.S.S.R.’s), is enough to show
what a long way Stalin has to
go to catch up with the West.
The relative Soviet deficiency in
oil is even more spectacular. In
fact, apart from cannon-fodder,
the Soviet Union produces
nothing that the West does not
produce better and more
copiously.”
The writer contends that,
though this would not be enough
in itself to stop the Red Army
occupying Europe, it has a direct
bearing on the value of such an
adventure. “Further, nobody
knows whether Russia could
stand the strain of war outside
her frontiers, even a disguised
war against Tito. She would
need a united Government, a
healthy morale in industry and
agriculture, and complete control
over her satellites.
“No one can say exactly what
has been happening during the
past few months on the highest
Kremlin level, but there has been
enough surface disturbance to
— “Stockholm-Tidningen,” Sweden.
TWO MEN—ONE BOAT!
show that the unanimity of the
Politburo is as bogus as a Com-
munist election.”
Social-service Costs.
In a London “Spectator”
article Sir Ronald Davison,
world-known writer and lecturer
on social questions and author
of numerous books, points out
that, excluding food subsidies,
Britain’s social Budget of some
£BOO million in 1948-49 is quite
four times the pre-war figure and
still increasing.
“This year,” he states, “the
National Health Service alone
will cost between £350 million
and £4OO million on present
plans, and in a few years the
Pensions Bill alone will mount
to £5OO million per annum. This
is fantastic, and my fear is lest,
in a real crash, we might lose
either all our gains or at any
rate 'much more of those gains
than is necessary.”
Advocating some severe prun-
ing, he adds: “The Government
might thus forestall the crisis or
mitigate its effects, and we might
save the basis and structure of
the new services in order to de-
velop them again, say in five
years’ time. Meanwhile we
shall have to mark-time or even
retrace a few of our recent steps
towards the ideal. The Welfare
State is a contradiction in terms
if it means at the same time a
bankrupt State.”
Queue Four-millions
Long.
At any rate, that’s what it
would be if they all lined up:
those in Britain still waiting to
be fitted with spectacles.
And that’s only a fraction of
those that need ’em, according to
Dr. Brian McCormac, Who, in
London “Evening News,” quotes
the Optical Association as having
announced that 20,000,000
people in England, Wales and
Scotland wear or require spec-
tacles: that 40 per cent, of the
population need visual help; that
there is a potential demand for
25,000,000 pairs of spectacles.
By April this year 8,500,000
pairs of spectacles had been pre-
scribed ; by July 4,500,000 had
been supplied. And, as a fair
sample of Socialist “estimating,”
the latest supplementary estimate
for the cost of glasses was
£12,900,000 —a mere six times
the original estimate!
World’s Motor-cars.
Official figures quoted by the
Milwaukee (U.S.A.) “Journal”
show that the United States has
about 34,000,000 of the world’s
approximately 43,000,000 motor-
cars, or about 78 per cent, of
the world’s total.
In the U.S. there is a “plea-
sure car” for every four persons.
It is about one to eight in
Canada and about one to 300
in the U.S.S.R. Even in Great
Britain it is one to 24.
“Figures such as these,” com-
ments the “Journal,” “are a fair
indication of our relative pros-
perity as a nation. They are
also a fair indication of the rela-
tive good fortune of the ‘com-
mon people.’ We cannot ignore
the fact that, with 34,000,000
cars for 147,000,000 people, a
lot of those cars must belong to
plain ordinary citizens. On the
other hand, the dictatorship of
the proletariat cannot cover the
fact that, with only one car foj
300 persons, most of the com-
mon folk have to forgo the plea-
sure of automobile transporta-
tion.
“The Soviet bureaucracy rides
—the ordinary comrades walk.”
Germany a Rival.
Maybe it’s just distance mak-
ing the heart less fearful and
vice versa; at any rate, the
general British Press view of
Germany is certainly much more
tinged with doubt than ever
shows up in its view of Japan,
or of Asia altogether for that
matter.
The doubts on Germany see
the possibility of its being once
again, and soon, a military
threat and, even sooner, a
serious trade threat to Britain,
Along with that as the general
view runs the feeling that there
isn’t very much that Britain, in
its own toils, can do about it.
On the trade aspect Walter
Fletcher, M.P., typically points
out in the “Daily Mail” that the
comeback of Germany has been
amazing: “Compared with 1936,
when life Hitler-Goring indus-
trial drive was already full on,
industrial production in West
Germany in 1947 amounted to
only 40 per cent. By June this
year the figure had risen to 85
per cent, of that pre-war peak,
and it has been mounting
steadily since.”
The British M.P. goes on to
give the following among other
reasons why he thinks that Ger-
many is already a real threat to
Britain economically:
“First, Germany does not
suffer from restrictive practices.
—Atlanta (U.S.A.) "Journal.”
“GO IT, SAM! GO IT, JOE!
There is a 48-hour week which
can be extended without penal
rates being paid by direct agree-
ment between management and
worker. Meanwhile, the influx
of 12,000,000 refugees from the
Russian zone means that there
are willing hands to every job.
“Secondly, there is good coal,
iron and steel production for the
same reasons. Germany exports
today more coal than Great
Britain.
“Thirdly, the Germans have,
on the whole, modern plant
created during and since the war
and capable even today after a
terrific battering of more than
80 per cent, of pre-war produc-
tion, and soon likely to exceed
the pre-war figure.
“Fourthly, there is an increas-
ing flow of food and imported
raw materials financed b y
American aid.”
An Atom Straw.
No doubt on the principle
that a threatened civilisation
must grasp at any straw in the
maelstrom, N. Y. “Herald Tri-
bune” differs from the great
bulk of U.S. sources in not dis-
missing the latest Soviet atom-
bomb proposals out of hand:
“The need now, the compel-
ling need, is for negotiation to
determine if compromise and
accommodation are possible.
This is a perilous time for atti-
tudinising, for doctrinaire pro-
posals and counter-proposals,
Mr. Vyshinsky’s statement may
be mere propaganda; it may
present no basis for a rational
agreement. But it ought not to
be dismissed as such without the
most patient and conscientious
investigation. Even qualified in-
spection and qualified control
are infinitely preferable to the
present headlong race toward
destruction.
“The need of the world now
is not so much for perfection as
for the beginning of rationality.”
Dragnet Digest.
Tribute Indeed for J. Bull. —Italian
view expressed by “II Corriere della
Serra,” Milan: “Some Italian pseudo-
Machiavellis dream of a direct Italian
agreement with the United States that
would make other friendships of
scant importance, but they must come
to realise that if 100,000,000 Ameri-
cans have unanimously abandoned
old rancors against England from
Revolutionary times, it is because
they know that England is the firmest
outpost in the defence of individualist
civilisations.”
* * * *
International Titoism. Reporting
that Tito has been “cultivating dis-
sident Communists from other lands,”
N. Y. “Herald Tribune” comments:
“Tito was able to make his revolt
stick, with the support of a function-
ing Government and an army. How
many more are of his opinion, but
forced into submission, cannot be
known. But there are enough of
them to call forth multiple purges,
and their position is one which has
a broad appeal. International Tito-
ism may never become more signifi-
cant than international Trotskyism—
but it is doubtful whether Stalin
would take any bets on the question.”
* * * *
Stalin’s Successors. —Former U.S.
Moscow Ambassador Gen. Bedell
Smith, in one of a series of London
“Daily Telegraph” articles, plumps
for a triumvirate as most likely to
control Russia after Stalin. He boils
the probables down to Molotov,
Malenkov and Beria, and adds: “My
own belief is that when Stalin dies
his power will be divided among
these three.”
* * * *
Cassandra Cripps. Not some
gloomy anti-Socialist onlooker, but
Sir Stafford himself referring to his
Government’s belated economies:
“Unless we can all quickly produce
more and get our costs down we
shall suffer a tragic fall in our stan-
dard of living accompanied by all the
demoralising insecurity of widespread
unemployment These economies,
like devaluation, are a prelude and
no more to a new surge forward to
conquer the hard-currency markets
without which our industries, our
standards of living, indeed our
civilisation itself, must fade and
wither away.”
* * * *
Very Nice Distinction. London
“Times” letter by Lord Morris: “On
November 23 you recorded that
Field-Marshal Sir William Slim and
Sir John Cockcroft flew to Canada
in* the same aircraft. Admittedly,
flying the North Atlantic even in
winter can no longer be regarded as
hazardous, but I question the wisdom
of two brilliant men both occupying
key positions in the public service
and both seized of secret and vital
matters travelling in the same aircraft.
The case of politicians is in no way
analogous.”
* * * *
Marshall on Marshall Aid. —The
author of the aid, speaking in New
York: “Knowing the state of affairs
in the late spring of 1947, the des-
perate, homeless feeling of the people
and their abject poverty and con-
sequent state of hunger, the same
scene two years later is bright beyond
belief, whatever the present problems
and dangers.” To that needed re-
minder General Marshall added an
interesting lihe for history: “It might
interest you to know that the Foreign
Minister of one of the satellite States
once remarked to me: ‘Everything
would have been all right if yoa had
only first consulted Mr. Molotov as
you did M. Bidault or Mr. Bevin.’
It was impossible to convince him
that no foreigner was consulted, and
fewer than a dozen Americans.”
* * * *
Lady Reading’s Sweaters. —Touch-
ing on the U.S. tariff barrier which
the British exporter still has to sur-
mount, for all the temporary benefits
of devaluation, a New York corres-
pondent of London “Daily Mail”
instances Lady Reading taking to
the U.S. as trade samples children’s
woollens decorated with tiny cotton
daisies: “Customs inspectors ruled
that those daisies made them em-
broidery (45 per cent, duty) instead
of sweaters (25 per cent, to pay), and
another plan for earning Britain
dollars collapsed.” As another
instance given by the same corres-
pondent, British sheep-shears elevated
to the top tariff level by being classi-
fied as surgical instruments!
* * * *
C.I.G.S. Pooh-Bah. —Spotlighted by
the “Manchester Guardian’s” mili-
tary correspondent: “The [British]
Army frames its annual estimates,
including its bid for National Service
men for the coming year, and presents
them to the Minister. The Minister
cannot be an expert strategist, and
must normally be guided by the
C.I.G.S. [Chief Imperial General
Staff]. The strengths are approved
and forwarded to the Chiefs of Staff;
their military member is the C.I.G.S.
From the Chiefs of Staff the paper
passes to the Minister of Defence.
He is no more a strategist than his
Secretary for War, and he, too, leans
inevitably upon the C.1.G.5., And so
on, through the Defence Committee,
of which the same C.I.G.S. is a
member, to the Cabinet and the
Prime Minister. To whom must
these now turn for guidance? It is
once more the C.1.G.5.”


or
Your choice is CINZANO
Vermouth, whether yonr taste is for
sweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
m m
Jilff
- V
W 0
urn
The Machinery
People
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
© Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
Electric Tools © Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All types
Saw Repairs.
SWISS FINISHING SCHOOL
Le Colombier
A private and select Finishing School
for the Study of Languages ( French
and German ), Continental Culture,
deportment and domestic science.
For prospectus apply to: —
MAJOR and MADAM JACQUES H. E. CHABLE
Olinda Falls Rd., MT. DANDENONG, Victoria.
SUNDRY SHOWS
"No Exit."
Jean-Paul Sartre’s philosophi-
cal drama, put on at Melbourne
University’s Union Theatre, is
stated in one act without inter-
mission, and it takes place in the
same room in Hell, the room
being furnished with three
couches. Into the room Hell’s
valet introduces three souls, one
male and two and for
all eternity they have to look at
one another, for in Hell there is
no sleeping, and, like the play,
even eyes stay open without in-
termission, though they get oc-
casional glimpses through a win-
dow of what is going on between
their earthly friends and rela-
tions. They all ask when they
will be taken to the torture-
chamber and are told they are
in it, for the torments of Hell
are the same as earthly tor-
ments — other human beings,
even dead ones.
Sartre’s thesis appears to be
that life isn’t solipsistic, but is a
relation between human beings.
The relation produces situations,
and they produce other situa-
tions, and Man, being free, can
manipulate his situations and
change them if he wants to.
Every man and every woman is
both played and player, and
there are no absolutes to dictate
their conduct. Man himself
produces what the church says
and what Governments, totali-
tarian or democratic, determine,
and there is no cause to be de-
termined by their judgments if
we know how to change them.
Sartre illustrates his point by
postulating a situation which is
apparently completely hopeless.
There are no prospects in Hell,
except of eternal repetition, and
there is no incentive for the
three damned souls to change an
immutable situation. One
woman is condemned to ever-
lasting torment because she has
drowned her illegitimate baby,
the other has used murder to
solve a triangular relation, and
the man, a pacifist journalist
and writer, escaped across the
border to avoid fighting for his
country and is tortured by
doubts as to whether he is a
hero or a coward.
In Hell there is no point in
trying to change these situa-
tions. Nevertheless, they haven’t
been in Hell for 20 minutes be-
fore. both women are in love
with the same man, each is
jealous of the other and the man
is faced with the problem as to
how to be considerate to one
without being inconsiderate to
the other. Sartre offers no solu-
tion and gives no clue as to how
this situation could be changed
except by eliminating one of the
jealous women. One attempts
this solution only to find that
murder won’t work in Hell,
everybody being dead there
already.
Sartre brings no new criterion
to bear on human relations, and
really has nothing new to say
about them, so there is a certain
aridity about his examples.
Peter O’Shaughnessy gave the
play an extremely intelligent
production. His own perform-
ance of the damned male soul
was outstanding. He gave the
sense of the words as well as
the feeling. Judith George
played the reactionary female
with bitter intensity, and Shirley
Stevenson was excellent as the
other. Frank Gatliff was quietly
humorous as Hell’s Valet.
"Glass Menagerie."
Marjorie Mant’s production of
Tennessee Williams’s “The Glass
Menagerie” for the Queensland
University Dramatic Society was
a triumph for her and for the
four actors taking part.
The play is mildly experimen-
tal: one character wanders in
and out of the set doubling the
roles of commentator and son
of a fallen middle-class Ameri-
can family. Morton Smith
carried off the part admirably.
Eleanor Cooke, as his mother,
plotted and schemed at unflag-
ging high pressure through the
first act to persuade him to bring
home a gentleman-caller for
daughter Laura (Margaret Col-
lins), who looked like going on
the shelf because her acute in-
hibitions and physical defects
cripple her hopes of attracting a
husband unaided. The caller,
needless to say, turns out to be
already engaged when he arrives
in Act II in the person of
Tony Aubrey-Slocock. Laura
is left to go -back to her col-
lection of glass toys in an
atmosphere of despair.
Although Margaret Collins
had a slight edge over the others,
the performances were so con-
sistently good that, in spite of
some dubious American ac-
cents, it was one of the best
things seen for a long time from
Brisbane’s amateur theatres.
"Glass Slipper."
Judging by the reception ac-
corded it by a houseful of
children, there by managerial
invitation, this London attempt
to rewrite the immemorial Cin-
derella story at Melbourne
Princess should satisfy the local
juvenile demand for Christmas
entertainment.
The absence of custard-pies
and the innuendo usually re-
garded as obligatory on these
occasions didn’t seem to incom-
mode the youngsters. They
seemed much more thrilled by
the spectacle of Cinderella being
transmogrified from a kitchen-
maid into a beauteous princess,
and the pumpkin being turned
into a coach and being driven
away by a rat coachman ; and
they were genuinely impressed
by the appearance of a real corps
de ballet which danced with
grace arid skill and took the
place of the customary kids’
ballet which is just a display of
incompetence.
The youthful audience was
breathlessly interested in the
tyrannising over Cinderella by
stepmother Amy Rochelle and
the two ugly sisters, June Jago
and Rex Reid, and scornfully
disdainful of the sentimental
wooing of the Prince (Reg Gil-
lam). They were entranced by
Cinderella, who, in the person
of Helen Franklyn, a London
actress, made a sympathetic
figure, and they got their laughs
from the fun of the story rather
than from the irrelevancies of
the traditional low comedian.
The show was handsomely
Staged and lavishly upholstered
by local talent.
"L'Enfance du Christ."
Dr. Percy Jones can be
thanked for giving Melbourne
one of the best musical events of
the year in this first performance
at the Town Hall of Berlioz’s
oratorio on the Childhood of
Jesus, sung by the Catholic Phil-
harmonic Choir. Berlioz was a
tempestuous soul who showed
his distaste for the medical pro-
fession by jumping out of a
window during an operation.
Then he proceeded to revolu-
tionise the science of orchestra-
tion, and controversy raged
around his unusual tonal effect
and combinations.
Like other artistic innovations
they can be listened to quite
easily now, but that is the way
with all innovations —you sit and
wonder why this calm, sweet,
sensitive music ever irritated any-
body. It even seemed a trifle too
gentle for the purposes of
Herod’s horrifying dreams of a
child who was going to dethrone
him, of his wholesale slaughter
of the firstborn and the trials
and tribulations of the Flight
into Egypt. Perhaps the soloists
were short of dramatic feeling,
though there was nothing wrong
with Thea Phillips’s singing, and
Alan Eddy’s black bass was un-
usually pure and his diction was
welliiigh perfect.
The chorus was weak in
places, but the orchestral part
was excellently rendered, and the
trio for harp and two flutes was
one of the loveliest passages of
music heard in Melbourne for a
long time.
Artbursts.
An interesting but not un-
common phenomenon of art
history is observable in the
annual exhibition of students’
work at the National Gallery in
Melbourne, where, after some
opposition, a variety of teachers
were introduced to give rehab,
pupils an opportunity for free-
dom of expression. Some were
not satisfied with the director,
William Dargie, and wanted a
master of the modernist persua-
sion, so Alan Sumner was pro-
vided as assistant drawing
master to Murray Griffin. So
that the achievements of their
instructors would not be con-
fused with one another, the
work of the students last year
was divided into Dargie class,
Sumner class and Griffin class.
This year the practice is re-
peated. Being in the vicinity of all
these teachers seems to have had
an hypnotic effect on students.
The Sumner class is getting like
the Dargie and the Dargie like
the Griffin, and the Griffin
seems to partake of all the
others, and what sort of queer
amalgam will be produced if the
process is continued can be
imagined.
Cennoni Cennini, one of the
great teachers of the Renais-
sance, advised students to ad-
here to one master and learn all
he had to teach them: if they
didn’t, but picked a bit from this
one and a bit from that one,
they would inevitably end up by
turning out something quite
fantastic. Unfortunately for
most of these recipients of Gov-
ernment assistance on the road
to art, something quite fantastic
is the right phrase to apply to
most of the work of the rehab,
students.
There is better work among
the landscapes. One, a simple
sketch of level flats and sea by
J. Hannan, won first prize. He
was once a pupil of Justus
Jorgensen.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of From Sunset to
Dawn by Will H. Ogilvie. —4756.
To buy copy of Dad in Politics by
Steel? Rudd.—47s7.
Words of poem “The Blankard
from the Bush,” a parody on Henry
Lawson’s “The Captain of the Push.”
—4758.
To buy gramophone record of the
anthem “Ascribe Unto -the Lord” by
Wesley, sung by the choir of St,
George’s Chapel, Windsor. —4761.
To buy copy of Backblock Ballads
by C. J. Dennis. —4760.
To buy copy of Nothing Left to
Believe by Richard Acland. —4759.
Information Sought.
What is the composition of (1)
anti-fouling and (2) fireproof paints ?
(1) They are as a general rule
quick-drying iron oxide paints to
which a proportion of poisonous
material, such as white arsenic,
copper suboxide, mercury oxide, etc.,
has been added. In contact with sea-
water these poisonous materials
gradually dissolve, and thus inhibit
any deposit or growth on ships’
bottoms. (2) These paints arc made
for use on woodwork, composition
boards and other inflammable
'material. They are usually ordinary
oil-paints containing a proportion of
fine asbestos, borax, sodium tungstate
and other fire-resisting materials.
* * * *
Heights of boxers who won the
world’s heavyweight boxing cham-
pionship ?
James J. Corbett, 6ft. lin.; Bob
Fitzsimmons, sft. lliin.; Jim Jeff-
ries, 6ft. l^in.; Marvin Hart, sft.
lliin.; Tommy Burns, sft. 7in.;
Jack Johnson, 6ft. O^in.; Jess Wil-
lard, 6ft. 6in.; Jack* Dempsey, 6ft.
Hin.; Gene Tunney, 6ft. lin.; Max
Schmeling, 6ft. lin.; Jack Sharkey,
6ft. lin.; Primp Camera, 6ft. 7in.;
Max Baer, 6ft. lin.; James J. Brad-
dock, 6ft. 2in.; Joe Louis, 6ft. lin.
* * * *
Some details concerning a New
Zealand bird called the kea?
A parrot allied to the nestor, and,
like it, confined to New Zealand, the
kea ( Nestor notabilis ) originally fed
on carrion, grubs, fruits and seed.
It came to rely more and more upon
the offal of slaughter-houses on the
sheep-runs. This taste for flesh led
it to acquire the habit of attacking
living sheep. It is particularly fond
of the kidneys, which it obtains by
pecking its way through the flesh of
the back.
* * * *
What kind of bird is the condor?
It is a large South American vul-
ture found particularly in the
region of the Andes, especially in
the higher regions, where they make
their nests at a height of from 10,000
to 15,000 feet. The general color is
black, and in both sexes there is
round the lower part of the neck a
white ruff of feathers. Above this
the head and neck are bare. The
condor feeds on flesh, to obtain
which, in default of carrion, he will
attack small and aged animals.
* * * *
How are mezzotints produced?
By a process of engraving whereby
a copper, or steel, plate is first pre-
pared to produce uniformly black
impressions on paper by pricking the
plate with innumerable small holes
which will hold ink. The ink used
is a thick ink which does not run.
After the plate has been prepared
the highlights in the picture to be
produced ar? obtained by scraping
away and burnishing parts of the
plate, thus reducing or obliterating
the small holes, according to the
effect desired. The pricking process,
done with an instrument called a
cradle, or rocker, not only punctures
the plate to hold ink, but at the
same time produces a burr on the
surface of the metal which, cutting
into the paper when in the press,
causes a deeper absorption of ink
and produces that velvety effect so
characteristic of the fine mezzotint
engraving in an early impression.
The surface of the punctured and
roughened plate is left undisturbed
where the deepest black is required,
and by a graduated scraping of the
plate, which removes both burr and
punctures so that ink is held in
lesser degrees, middle and light tones
are obtained when an impression is
taken from it.
Brief Answers.
A.C.W.: Some of the antimony
articles formerly popular were made
of brass and finished in an antimony
bath, so that cleaning may remove
all the silvery coating. Wash the
tray in warm soapy water, use a
soft brush if necessary, and rinse
clean of soap. When dry, rub lightly
with fine whiting moistened with
laundry ammonia; brush off and
finish with a silk duster. If unrespon-
sive, try metal polish... .J.E.D.: (1)
Write Grazcos Co-operative, Ltd., 46
Young-street, Sydney. (2) Write
Officer-in-charge, Fisheries Branch,
Chief Secretary’s Dept., Sydney
T.H.: For sulphate of ammonia and
sulphate of potash write Australian
Fertilisers Pty., Ltd., 5 Macquarie-
place, Sydney; for sulphate of zinc
and copper sulphate write Elliotts
and Australian Drug Pty., Ltd.. 20
O’Connell-street, Sydney... .C. 8.:
The poem “The Rubaiyat of the
Average Bloke” was written by
Harrison Owen, and appears in The
Bulletin Book of Humorous Verse
and Recitations A.J.W.: Bellerive
is a suburb of Hobart in the Clarence
municipality and the county of
Monmouth K.C.: The distinction
between the two is that “illegible” is
not plain enough to be deciphered
and “unreadable” is not interesting
enough to be perused 8.G.H.:
Gilla and Kulpa are both aboriginal
place-names meaning honey.,..
E.K.McP.: John Haynes was a
N. S. Wales M.L.A. for Mudgee (1887-
94), Wellington (1894-1904) and Wil-
loughby (1915-17) AJ.M.: Aus-
tralian Aboriginal Words by H. M.
Cooper, published by South Aus-
tralian Museum, Adelaide; price, Is.
E.R.M.: You appear to have
remedies, and it would be worth
while consulting a solicitor J.D.:
The solicitor’s opinion would appear
to be correct on the facts stated.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appiar on the
•MS, No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted ;
and no US, will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
A.J.G.: Any rate, if you sell the
chair for £5O, that’s much more than
you’d have got for the story about
it, even if the story had been as
much a work of art as the chair
H. 8.: Sorry; it’s a good sketch, brut
a poor story L.W.C.: A bit bitter.
. ...C.A.: “Bronchitis” might catch
on elsewhere, but the others, we fear,
will prove fatal C.H.P.: Just as
we thought people had stopped send-
ing us imaginary dreams, along
came your nightmare H.V.W.:
Bloodthirsty boardinghouse-keepers —
we steer clear of them... .J.W.; Not
our kind of horrors E.F.: “Bound
for the Rio Grande” just didn’t get
there... .T.K.: Cave-women were all
very well in the dim distant past
of 1900-10....E.L.H.5.: Much too
mechanical J.T.: We meant that
“The Major” was that rare thing a
good fictional character, and would
go well in a good fictional story;
but you have left out the story
H.H.W.: “The Veranda,” though
not exactly jerrybuilt, struck us as a
put-up job E.H.: “A Day Like
This” needn’t have made a story like
that 8.C.: In “Cook’s Privilege”
you have used the materials for a
good cake to produce a mud-pie.


h U/s
i
m
Pm/wit-
until summer is nearly over,
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with
B.I.SLAGWOOL
No house, home, office or building is modern and entirely
healthy unless It Is Insulated preferably with BJ,
SLAG WOOL,
insulation
’Phones: Sydney 8X5584, Melbourne
• / MU3506, Brisbane 83604, Adelaide C 7357,
Perth 1/2107
CWOJL
Sl>
BIG- 18
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT* OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE WILFRED THOMAS
(formerly of South Broken Hill) and
IRIS ROBERTS (formerly of Broken
Hill). —TAKE NOTICE that EVA MAIE
THOMAS has filed a Petition No. 3231 of
1949 praying for Divorce from
CLARENCE WILFRED THOMAS on the
ground of his adultery with IRIS
ROBERTS If you the said Clarence
Wilfred Thomas wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 3rd March 1950 You the said
Iris Roberts may apply to the said Court
to be allowed to defend A copy of the
petition may be obtained from MESSRS.
JOHN R. EDWARDS, SON & BROWN,
the Solicitors for the Petitioner, 281
Argent Street, Broken Hill, or from their
Sydney Agents, MESSRS. CURTISS,
DEZARNAULDS & BUTTFIELD, Soli-
citors, 07 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—(L.9.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
No. 5 of a
Series
Many thousands of Aus-
tralian fanners had come
to know and respect Ron-
aldson - Tippett Kerosene
and Petrol Engines by the
early "thirties", when the
firm introduced the Diesel
Engine illustrated.
Widespread approval of
this progressive move en-
couraged Ronaldson - Tip-
pett to produce a range of
Diesel Engines from h.p.
up to 50 h.p.
To-day. all over Australia,
these Diesel Engines are
doing an endless variety of jobs with the reliability,
economy and long life which Ronaldson-Tippett
tradition insists shall be built into every Engine.
m
RONALDSON BRQS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Showrooms: 628 Bourke St., Mel-
bourne. 27.5. TV. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., 42
Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty., Ltd.. Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
RONftIDSONTIPPETT
ENGINES
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
When Noel Coward penned his
lines suggesting that only “Mad dogs
and Englishmen go out in the noon-
day sun” he had evidently not en-
visaged such an occasion as the run-
ning of the Villiers at Randwick on
Saturday. The “noonday” sun was-
going full blast early in the morning,
and continued unabated throughout
the day—by the time the Villiers
was run (3.15 p.m.) the mercury had
put up a score of Bradman standard.
No mad dogs were in evidence, but
the larger four-footed friend and his
two-legged admirers were roasting
themselves in large numbers.
The hard, dry, fast conditions
seemed made to order for topweights,
but such proved not the case; the
Villiers went to Veiled Art, om the
7st. mark. Veiled Art started at
12 to 1, but some punters, at least,
had a good win—Veiled Art was
backed in from 16 to 1. The winner
was ridden by the comparatively-
unknown apprentice S. Taylor, scor-
ing his first metropolitan success.
Royal Meteor and Smooth Action,
between them setting a cracking pace
from the start, proved the undoing
of several of the more-fancied run-
ners, who either ran out of steam
trying to stick with the pace or else
dropped so far back as to be con-
ceding an impossible start in the run
home. Entering the straight Smooth
Action led from Royal Meteor, with
Blue Lass and Veiled Art looming
large behind that pair. As he was
behind Blue Lass at that stage,
Veiled Art did remarkably well to
bridge the gap and win by three-parts
of a length from Blue Lass, with
Freedom third. Unable to hold the
early pace, Karachi was pretty well
last entering the straight, but finished
in grand style to be fourth, and an
obvious winner had the winning-post
been a half-furlong further off. Of
other runners, Sheba finished close
up, while Smooth Action’s perform-
ance indicated the possibility of a
win in the near future.
Purchased for 900 guineas at the
Sydney yearling sales, the now four-
year-old Veiled Art has been a, model
of consistency in filling minor plac-
ings, but has only recently struck
winning form; he has won, in all,
three races, and those in his last four
starts. As a two-year-old Veiled Art
started only twice, running second
on both occasions, once behind Fox-
zami. At three-years-old Veiled Art
had eight starts , and ran up a
sequence of five minor placings; this
season he has had eight starts for
three wins, three seconds and twice
unplaced. Veiled Art is a brown
horse by Brueghel from the Veil-
mond mare Yashmak.
Apart from the Villiers, two-year-
olds provided the most impressive
winners of the day at Randwick.
The hot-favorite Titian (W. Cook)
simply toyed with her opponents in
the December Nursery for fillies to
notch up her third successive win
from four starts. The well-bred
Blue Grotto (Ajax-Caprieste), though
beaten three lengths by Titian, looked
a coming winner, but Niaranga dis-
appointed in running only third.
Raced by L. R. Morgan, who bred
her at his Redbank Stud, Scone
(N.S.W.), Titian is a full-sister to
the A.J.C. Derby winner Valiant
Crown, being by Heroic’s son Valiant
Chief out of Bandrol, a daughter of
the imported pair Parenthesis and
Bandiera.
The New Zealand-bred Gold Coin
was a really impressive winner of
the December Juvenile for two-year-
old colts and geldings; as they
neared the post the big, striking-
looking, blackish-brown colt flashed
up on the outside to join and beat
Karangi, Quarter Deck and Folderol,
the four almost in line, but shown
in that order by the camera. Gold
Coin is among the first seen here of
the progeny of the imported Gold
Nib, who is rapidly making a great
name for himself as a sire in New
Zealand. Represented by his first
crop, Gold Nib was, last season,
the leading sire of two-year-olds in
New Zealand, with five winners of
£14,140, of which the outstanding
Gold Script contributed £7OOO. A
winner in England in the best of
company at up to 12-furlongs, Gold
Nib is a son of Dastur, sire of Dhoti.
Extraordinary patience in persever-
ing with what must be for punters
one of the most expensive horses
racing brought connections some
reward when the five-year-old grey
Arabian Prince (G. Moore) won the
first Novice Handicap (10f.) —his first
win in 30-odd starts. The second
division of the Novice went to
another maiden performer in the four-
year-old Beau Vite mare Ballroom
(A. Hazelton). Curiously, at the
previous Randwick meeting, Arabian
Prince and Ballroom deadheated for
third place in a Novice won by
Fellowship.
* * ♦ ♦
As she passed the post with a
couple of lengths in hand, after being
scarcely out of a canter at any stage
of Saturday’s mile Kinross Handicap
at Moonee Valley, Chicquita, with a
skittish flick of her heels, actually
jumped the finishing-line. Staid ob-
servers declared that she had jumped
the imaginary obstacle represented by
the patch of light reflected on the
track by the mirror of the photo-
finish gear, but present writer, always
prepared to credit horses with a good
deal more than mere horse-sense,
interpreted it as a beautiful gesture
of supreme derision. Certainly this
outstanding filly can afford to be
derisive of anything that’s been
stacked up against her to date.
Ridden by A. Breasley, Chicquita
started at 4 to 1 on for her eighth
successive win. A most commendable
feature of the Kinross Handicap
(restricted to fillies and mares, three-
year-old and over) was the sensible
handicapping, showing respect, but
not revenge, for a good horse. Chic-
quita was, quite properly, asked to
concede others a good deal of weight
(161 b. and upwards), but the effect
was not achieved by giving Chicquita
herself a crushing burden. Chicquita
carried 8.12; next came the four-
year-olds Atomic Lass (7.10), Chosen
(7.9) and Lynette (7.9), followed by
Brilliant Star (7.8), Annella (7.5) and
El Arish (7.5), And that’s the order
in which they finished. The question
of just how good is Chicquita re-
mains unanswered, or, rather, her
limits have not, as yet, been hinted
at, but certainly she’need do nothing
more than she has done already to
deserve classing as a really great filly.
The sheer pleasure of seeing a
grand horse toying with its opponents
as did Chicquita would satisfy most
racegoers, but for those who incline
to the more thrilling there was a
cracking finish to the mile Yuletide
Handicap. Derrymore and favorite
Savoy, close together throughout the
race, battled it out head-and-head all
the way down the straight. At the
post the camera couldn’t separate
them, and when the camera calls it
a deadheat then sure it’s a deadbeat
indeed.
Apart from Chicquita, and Savoy’s
half-interest, the only other successful
favorite was the Hellespont filly Little
Toot —a name in which the element
“A few more days' practice, Ponsonby, and We 'll be
right for the tigahs!"
of humor almost outweighs the
unsuitability. Anything but little,
this beautifully-developed filly started
at 5 to 4 on in the Barkoola Handi-
cap for two-year-old fillies, and won
in fashion thoroughly justifying the
odds.
On the rougher side of the ledger,
for puntels, were the successes 9!
Prince D’Amour and St. Trim in
divisions of the Albion Trial Handi-
cap (6f.). Prince D’Amour, whose
small pretensions to form had been
established at country meetings,
started at 25 to 1, led all the way to
beat the 20-to-l chance Disagree, and
paid £9 16s. on the win tote. Win-
ning the second division of the Trial,
St. Trim, a St. Magnus filly who had
started only twice previously, went
out at 66 to 1, and paid the more
speculative of tote-punters £26 3s. for
a win and £5 4s. 6d. for a place.
Two wins on successive Saturdays
make the New Zealand-bred Lord
Bian worth keeping in mind as one
who takes kindly to the oddities of
the Moonee Valley course. At fours,
he was well in the market for the
13-furlongs Festive Handicap, but
Colin was a strong favorite and Pan-
mure also preferred. Following
Plovarius and Hunch into the
straight, Lord Bian swept past that
pair and went on to a clear win.
Colin followed Lord Bian through
as he made his run, but couldn’t peg
him back. Plovarius finished third —
a good enough effort, since his rider
had been a trifle premature in initiat-
ing a long run from the tail of the
field. Completing the programme at
the Valley the very open Dunalister
Handicap went to one of the several
fancied runners in True Law (W.
Williamson) at 7 to 1. Equal-
favorite at sixes, the Sydney per-
former Heroic Sovereign was second
and Chal third.
* * * *
Cliff Sproule, manager of the last
Australian Davis Cup team, has
weighed in with a report on the
team’s conduct which should be read
with deep interest by the promising
bunch of youngsters we have seeking
Davis Cup selection. Sproule’s report
declares that the team showed lack
of interest in official functions, at-
tending altogether six, “but not with
the grace and enthusiasm which
should be apparent in an international
team,” and hinted that the team had
to be practically bludgeoned into con-
testing the U.S.A. national champion-
ships; even then one player did not
enter, but went off to England ahead
of the team and contested an exhibi-
tion match against Sproule’s wishes.
Sproule can console himself with the
thought that if he’s ever stuck for a
job he’s had an experience which
should qualify him for a position
with a touring opera-company.
* * * *
Entering the fray at Johannesburg
on Saturday South Africa com-
menced the first Test of the current
tour v. the Australians under the
psychological cloud of having won
only one previous Test against Aus-
tralia. However, at the end of the
first day’s play the S’Africans’ prime
concern was the more substantial
cloud-effect banking up round the
horizon in large quantities.
With a crowd of 25,000 holding
its breath as the coin was spun,
Hassett called aright, decided that if
the pitch was bad then it was sure
to be a darn sight worse later on,
and in went the Australians. To the
delight of the crowd disaster came
fast and early with both Australian
openers, Morris and Moroney, dis-
missed for “blobs”; it was the first
time Morris had been guilty of a
duck in first-class cricket, and a far
cry from his first-class debut, when
he made a century in each innings
for N.S.W. v. Q’land. Morris was
caught-out trying to hook the second
ball of the match; Moroney was
run-out when he scuttled for a risky
single and Miller at the other end
declined to proffer his neck. Hassett
then joined Miller and settled down
to play a real captain’s match-saving
innings. Miller went at 21, Harvey
at 34, and, when failing light stopped
play shortly after tea on Saturday it
was Hassett 109 n. 0., Loxton 16 n. 0.,
sundries 10 n. 0.; total, four for 190
—and the very high probability of
further rain to dampen the S’Africans’
festive spirit.
* * ♦ ♦
Two Sheffield Shield matches got
under way on Christmas Eve, and in
neither was the opening side’s first
innings completed when the troops
adjourned in preparation for the
morrow’s match v. indigestion. In
Melbourne, stumps on Saturday saw
N.S.W. in a handy position against
Victoria, with seven down for 296.
Highlights of this match were the tip-
top efforts of two 19-year-olds in J.
Burke (130 n. 0.) and R. Benaud
(caught by Kerr off Hill at 68). In
Adelaide A. R. McLean was the
backbone of his side’s batting against
Q’land; McLean was 114 n.o. at
stumps, when four wickets were down
for 266. Still pursuing his notion
that he’s a better bowler than wicket-
keeper, Queensland’s Don Tallpn dis-
carded the gloves for a period, bowled
11 overs without luck and at a cost
of 39 runs, then resumed his proper
place behind the stumps.
* * * *
N.S.W. cricket has lost a stalwart,
and golf gained one, with the resigna-
tion of Harold Heydon from the
secretaryships of the N.S.W. Cricket
Association and Cricketers’ Club to
tackle the job of secretary to Sydney’s
Killara Golf Club. Heydon had
been secretary of the Association
since 1926 and of the Cricketers’ Club
since it was founded in 1938.
* * * ♦
Empire and Australian amateur
billiards champion, Westralian Bob
Marshall, has received word from
the controlling body that his break
of 553, made at Perth in December,
1946, has been recognised as a world
amateur record. Previous record of
549 was pegged up by the British
player Kingsley Kennerley. Hailing
originally from Kalgoorlie, Marshall
dominates amateur billiards as Walter
Lindrum dominates the professional
game. Marshall won the Empire
title in South Africa in 1936 and
again in Melbourne in 1938, since
when it has not been played; how-
ever, the next tournament is to be
in Britain in 1951.
* * * *
As far as concerns numbers of
competitors the Auckland Empire
Games will outdo the 1938 Sydney
games by a fair margin. The 1938
figures were 446 competitors chap-
eroned by 43 officials, but Auckland
is expecting 583 participants and 73
non-combatants. The host country
naturally has the largest entry with
180, but Australia easily heads the
rest of the field with 169 starters to
England’s 69, Canada’s 64 and
S’Africa’s 28. Other countries to be
represented are Scotland, Rhodesia,
Fiji, Ceylon, Malaya - Singapore,
Nigeria and Wales.
jjj jj» »J{
A writer in Edinburgh’s “Scots-
man” bows in profound admiration
of Russian sporting genius:—
“It is reported from Prague that
Russia won the international volley-
ball championship. Among the
features which marked this sporting
occasion were the brilliant tactics of
the Rumanian team. After it had
won the first set against Russia,
according to the newspaper ‘Svobodne
Slovo,’ the four best players were
withdrawn, and Russia had the honor
of winning by three sets to one.
To the supremacy of the Soviet
Union over her more recent ‘con-
verts’ to Communism in the
economic field, in art, music and
literature must now be added these
new honors in the field of volley-ball.”


‘Pbenovis" Worm Remedy
*°*/S r^W^rv
To
‘P H E N 0 VI S’
PHENOTHIAZINE DRENCH
%}Jj
--A a#
/ 7*:
a
d
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND PASTORAL HOUSES
as in great
grandfather’s day—
Pastoralists profit from
the complete and efficient
service of A.M.L.&F.
Sale of wool • Stock and produce
Pastoral finance • Station requirements
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Hud Office (or Australia; 4 BLIGH STREET. STDNET
and at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches— N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Oowra, Scone*
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld; Townsville, Charleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents; McPhie & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
*
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
N.S.W. Wheat Contests.
“He-Ne”: They were judged
this year against a background
of big crops, political tension
and mixed feelings concerning
the International Wheat Agree-
ment and the delay in announc-
ing the new home-consumption
price. N.S.W. Royal Agricul-
tural Society, which has con-
ducted these contests since 1916
with the undeviating aim of im-
proving yield, quality and farm-
ing methods, can take a faif
share of the credit for the fact
that, in the 33 years since the
first contest, the State average
yield has gone up three to four
bushels an acre, flour quality of
the wheat has improved out of
sight and, though much remains
to be done in this regard, soil-
fertility is being better preserved.
There is a huge team of non-
farmers behind wheatgrowing—
Department of Agriculture
officers stationed in the wheat-
belt, on the department’s experi-
ment - farms and at head-
quarters, wheatbreedens,
chemists, flour experts and so
forth —and the R.A.S. contests
are, in a sense, the annual
parade of their work in co-
operation with the farmers.
A summary of this. year’s
champion crops in the five State
divisions:
North-west : Champion
crop was grown by W. D. Swan
and D. F. Maher, on Byron,
Inverell. Gabo, it was estimated
to yield 60 bushels per acre.
P. M. Brennan, Moonaree,
Tambar Springs, was second with
a 56-bushel Gabo crop, and
A. E. Westman, Leighwood,
Boggabri, third with a 55-bushel
one, again Gabo. Judge G.
Nicholson (Government cereal
specialist) said the crops were
all of high standard and should
give an average yield of 46
bushels. They had made
splendid recovery following
September-October rains, which,
however, brought on a heavy
wild-oat growth.
Western ; W. G. Law, of
Thistledown, Gilgandra, won
with a 42-bushel Kendee crop.
Law has long been a certified
seedgrower, and is no stranger
to R.A.S. wheat championships.
His was the only entry of
Kendee in the contest. He was
warmly commended by judge
J. L. Green (Department of
Agriculture) on his efforts to
maintain soil-fertility by the in-
corporation of green material
into his cultivation paddocks.
Second place went to Mrs. M. I.
Barnett, Wilga Vale, Narromine,
for a 43-bushel Bencubbin crop,
and J. A. Rivas, Ukebung,
Merrygoen, was third with a 45-
bushel Bencubbin., High yield
is not enough—the Kendee beat
the Bencubbin because of
Law’s attempts to preserve soil-
fertility. ITie judge remarked
that the red loams of the western
N.S.W. wheatbelt will not stand
up to continuous cultivation, and
better methods of rotational
grazing and cropping must be
adopted.
Riverina : Seven different
varieties, Bencubbin, Quadrat,
Kendee, Celebration, Ranee,
Magnet and Ford, sought the
prize. Yields ranged from 22
bushels at Finley to 45 at
Barellan —well up to competition
standard and reflecting good
farming methods, because imme-
diately after extremely dry
conditions in August crop pros-
pects in Riverina appeared poor.
The prize was won by W. and
“Did you see a reaper-and-binder come this Way ?”
C. Rudd, Hughenden, Barellan
(Bencubbin, 45-bushel), C. C.
Coxon, Ardour, Berrigan, was
second with a 36-bushel Quadrat
entry, and H. V. Moore, Lance-
wood, Barmedman, third with
Kendee, 40-bushel.
Southern : Competition was
less keen and standard of entries
lower. Championship went to
S. V. Jacob, Merino Park, Walla
Walla, for a 42-bushel Bordan
crop. Second was T. E. Gorman
and Sons, Fairfield, Yerong
Creek, with a 39-bushel Cele-
bration, and third, J. C. Shaw
and A. Rutherford, Kanangra,
Yerong Creek, with a 42-bushel
crop of Magnet.
Central Slopes: A feature
was that a well-known Binnaway
farmer who has long discarded
super, in favor of nature’s way
was second in the championship.
He was V. W. Smith, managing-
director of Science and Pastures
Pty., Ltd., Ulindah, who uses a
rotational grazing method, and
believes he gets much better
results than by the use of super.
The property is on the fringe
of the north-west, where super.
is unnecessary. First was Inder
Brothers’ (Glenfern, Dunedoo)
attractive 49-bushel Bencubbin
crop, S. Giddings, Barney’s
Gully, Suntop, was third.
Ulindah was taken up in 1930
by the late Dr. Gordon
Craig and Smith, A year
later the doctor died and
Smith has conducted the 8480-
acre property since. He is a
firm believer in barrel clover,
and 2500 acres are sown to it as
well as 1500 acres of lucerne.
The sheep-carrying capacity of
Ulindah has been increased from
one to three per acre.
B.H.C. Blowfly Treatment.
“A.M.M.”: The choice of
dressing is for the sheep-owner,
but experiments with B.H.C. by
the C.S.I.R. have shown interest-
ing results. Body-strike was
effectively controlled by 8.H.C.,
and the effect lasted from four
to five weeks. As outbreaks of
body-strike are usually of short
duration, necessitating only one
treatment, the result is of con-
siderable importance. Two
strengths were used during
treatment, one flock was dipped
and the other sprayed. Results
in both were good.
N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture has found, and the
C.S.I.R. has confirmed, that
against crutch-strike jetting with
B.H.C. was less effective than
arsenic and was more expensive.
On the other hand, arsenic is,
of course, toxic, while B.H.C. is
not.
In the treatment of head-strike
in rams by jetting, B.H.C. was
found to be first-rate. After
four weeks there were no signs
of head-strikes amongst the rams
jetted. Those jetted with a cal-
cium arse n i t e preparation
showed 10 p.c. of head-strikes
during the same period. Both
the C.S.I.R. and the N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture con-
sider B.H.C. a highly efficient
head-strike preventive.
A successful treatment against
crutch-strike, used in Riverina,
is one containing 8-101 b. of
arsenic and 2gal, of molasses to
lOOgal. of water.
Cattle-brands.
“Bungaree”; While each State
has its own laws governing
cattle-brands, in N.S.W. the posi-
tion is covered by the Registra-
tion of Stock Brands Act, 1921-
23. This Act cancelled all
previous brands, and owners had
to re-register their brands —
in certain cases, get new brands.
All cattle-brands are on a State
basis —not on a P.P. district basis
as is the case with sheep-brands
and should be registered
through the Department of Agri-
culture with file Registrar of
Stock Brands. At the end of
each year all new brands regis-
tered within the period are added
to the Brands Directory.
The size of a cattle-brand is
of the same limits as a horse-
brand minimum height of
letters, figures or symbols, Ijin.,
maximum 3in., with at least jin.
between letters or figures.
In N.S.W. cattle may be
branded on one of six positions
all on the hindquarters—with the
registered brand. These are (1)
left rump, (2) left hip, (3) left
thigh, (4) right rump, (5) right
hip and (6) right thigh. The first
brand on a cleanskin should
therefore be placed on the left
rump, and in the event of the
animal changing hands the
second owner should put his
brand on the next area: the left
hip. Exception to these regula-
tions is made in favor of stud-
cattle —either dairy or beef
types —which, if registered in the
Breed Stud Book, may be
branded anywhere. Age-marks
or other distinctive numerals may
be placed on one of three posi-
tons: (1) Left neck, (2) left
cheek, (3) right cheek, and these
brands must be numerals of not
less Iban lin. in height.
Cattle earmarks need not be
registered, and the owner may
use any system he wishes. He
may use a certain earmark
instead of a brand. It should be
remembered, however, tha t
neither branding nor earmarking
of cattle is compulsory in
N.S.W., and that whatever steps
are taken in those directions are
purely for safeguarding the
interests of the owner.
It is, however, an offence to
alter a brand or an earmark
belonging to another person, and
while it may be safe enough to
be in possession of cleanskin
hides it is another matter to be
caught with a hide with the
brand cut out or showing signs
of interference.
Nitrogen.
“Mr.”: A deficiency is indi-
cated by a general leaf yellow-
ing, usually pronounced along
the veins. The element is best
applied to citrus four or five
weeks prior to flowering, but
never in autumn, as the tender
growth induced by the fertiliser
will be burnt off by the first
frosts.
If sulphate of ammonia or
nitrate of soda is used apply in
two equal dressings of 41b. each
a few weeks apart. Organic
manures containing nitrogen
are slower acting than the arti-
ficials, and to get the same effect
have to be used in larger quan-
tities. Blood and bone, for ex-
ample, is used at the rate of
251 b. to the fully-grown tree;
fowl manure 901 b., sheep manure
1001 b. and horse manure 2cwt.
or 3cwt. The slower-acting
organic manures should be
applied two or three weeks
earlier than artificials.
Milking-shed Designs.
‘‘My”: The Victorian Depart-
ment of Agriculture is offering
dairyfarmers in that State sub-
stantial cash prizes for plans of
a milking-shed and useful sug-
gestions to increase milking
efficiency. The prizes—first £250,
second £lOO, third £5O and
fourth £lo—are additional to
cash awards for accepted hints
on shed gadgets, fittings and im-
provements designed to improve
milking-shed working condi-
tions. The superintendent of
dairying. Department of Agri-
culture, Melbourne, will supply
particulars and accept entries
until January 30.
Breeding Cockerels.
“K,,T.”: Those likely for
breeding should have been
hatched in July and August;
later ones generally lack vigor.
At three to four months old
they can be examined for faults.
Although they should be bred
from quality stock a wide selec-
tion should be made if improve-
ment in type and laying qualities
is to be expected. Have 50 can-
didates if about 12 really good
birds are wanted.
First eliminate all stunted and
weakly birds, then any which are
too large, which means coarse-
ness. Then out with defective
feet, crooked toes, crooked
breast-bones, poor eyes, or any
other deformity.
Look at the comb. Any with
side sprigs should be culled, as
well as those which are much
more developed than the rest, an
indication of too early maturity.
Double serrations are not attrac-
tive, nor are combs which are
overserrated. Take out any
which are not as even in size and
shape as the rest. However, if
any of the younger ones appear
a trifle gawky don’t worry; at
maturity they often display
excellent type.
Supposing 25 remain. Let
them grow for two months and
gradually eliminate the worst
five, not forgetting squirrel tail.
Finally, at five- and six-month-
old, 20 remain. Select the re-
quired 10 for type, alertness and
activity. They should possess
bright eyes, and carry the tail at
45deg.; 50deg. would be permis-
sible for cockerels which are to
breed layers only. If the final
culls are of excellent quality,
but appear too typy, they may
be sold for breeding from a
guinea upwards according to
quality.
Tins for Protection.
“1.M.H.”: In my tiny garden
out in the hot country tins are
by far the best protection for
plants. The burning north wind,
despite a brush fence, will
destroy young greens in less than
a day. To ward off grasshoppers
and baby rabbits tins are the
best. They protect silver-beet
and other plants till a few nibbles
mean only a pruning from which
the plant will recover.
On the hottest days my 18
lettuces would look absurd to
the conventional grower. Each


THE HYGEIA
DISSOL VENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System,
Est. 1937.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Disaolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fides of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
• Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.8.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dlst. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Qoulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland; Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILLTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
Improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20lb,
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
Hot,' tired feet need
this treatment;—
A Cuticura Soap bath
and Cuticnra Oint-
ment application. Try
it.and enjoy real foot.
comfort. Cuticnra
Ointment. ’Soap and
Talcum Powder—
the famous '
trio, C e£T y
533
(Uticura
V OINTMENT
MEMOR'^.THEASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work*
m
mmmmt
' . \\-
- w
W.
3M3SmmXBB
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
fd
RAIN GAUGES
and
Meteorological Instruments
Standard Bin. Rain Gauge
with brass rim, container and
measure. £3/16/-
Standard sin. with same parts
£l/18/-
Also Barometers, Thermom-
eters, Hygrometers, Maximum
and Minimum Thermometers
and Recording Instruments.
Write for particulars
and quotations
fd
AND SONS
PTY. ITD
for MEDIUM power users!
Here’s the pre-war famous Lanz “L”
Model bringing once more amazing
economy of crude oil operation in a
30 H.P. Tractor suitable for every
medium power need. With only 8
main moving parts in its simple,
single-cylinder, slow-moving engine,
30 H.P. LANZ cuts wear and main-
tenance to the barest minimum and
Can actually save you as much as
£1,500 in 10 years on the running costs
of any other type of tractor. A saving
which more than refunds the capital
invested in your new Lanz Tractor.
There is a K.L. Bulldog or Lanz Crude
Oil Tractor in the range of 30, 40 and
45 h.p. models to ideally suit the
requirements of your farm—large or
small. See your local Bulldog Agent
Simplest , Strongest , Most Economical
Tractors—Ever Built I
K.L.&
Bill
a
HLANZ
DOG
30, 40 & 45 H.P. MODELS
CbudeOU TRACTORS
State Distributors:
N.S.W., Danger, Gedye & Malloch Ltd.. 10-14 Young St., Sydney. VICTORIA, K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 304
Spencer St., Melb. SOUTH AUSTRALIA, Elder, Smith & Co. Ltd., 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide, WESTERN
AUSTRALIA. Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty, Ltd., 349 William St., Perth. TASMANIA, K.L. Distributors Pty. Ltd.,
233 Elizabeth St.. Hobart. QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor SalesPty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley, Brisbane.
KL2O3
is surrounded by a large tin and
the top covered with a thatch of
brush. If they are not covered
when young they die.
The following plants I have
growing were all sheltered with
tins for the first few weeks; a
dozen silver-beet, now a year
old ; 15 tomatoes in fruit; four
Tongan beans in production;
three cucumbers; three
marrows ; a small row of peas ;
18 lettuces. Parsley was raised
under mosquito-net, onions also,
and radishes under cotton.
To Burn or Not to Burn?
“Billeyne”; Year after year
the merciless process of erosion
has continued, and will continue,
until the majority of Queens-
land’s coastal cattle-land is
worthless. The first stages of
this loss are visible now on many
properties where accurate
records have been kept. Despite
improvements, additional dips,
paddocks and watering facilities,
these properties now carry fewer
cattle than they did 50 years ago.
During the interval permanent
waterholes and creeks have
silted up, gullies which once
seldom ran are now violent
torrents after heavy rain, and
what once were cattle-pads are
nbw steeply-eroded gullies.
Thanks to investigations and
publications of comparatively
recent origin we cattlemen ap-
preciate and understand that the
predominating cause of all this
erosion loss is fire. “You must
not burn grass,” say the experts.
“It must be grazed off or left
lie until it forms humus-rich top-
soil. The grass, as it lies on the
ground, will hold water and
cause it to soak in, then there
will be no erosion.” The theory
is fine, though obvious, and the
experts leave us at that. How-
ever, the problem only begins
there, for on the coastal cattle-
country if you don’t burn you
don’t have fat cattle—that’s
axiomatic—yet if you do burn
you lose your topsoil.
The problem: If we don’t
burn we’ll have no fat cattle ;
if we do burn our sons will have
fewer fat cattle, and our grand-
sons will have few cattle and
very little worth-while land. We
are not far-sighted. Govern-
ment-assisted visionaries, we are
practical men who would like to
do right by our land as well as
by ourselves. There is scope for
much investigation in this
hastily-explored but very im-
portant field.
Hints for the Farm.
“Murph”: Worn rubber tyres
dissolve readily in boiling tar
and give to the cooled tar a
greater density and a much
greater resistance to the corro-
sive influences of the soil. Chop
the old tyres into handy pieces
before putting them into the
tar-pot.
“My”: Collar-rot of citrus is
favored by bad drainage or the
heaping of damp soil or manure
above the bud-union, and if it
completely girdles the trunk has
the same effect as ringbarking.
If the trouble is not too far ad-
vanced cut away all dead bark
and tissue and paint the diseased
area with a paste of 2oz. of
powdered bluestone and 4oz. of
slaked lime mixed with enough
water to make it workable.
Draw the soil well away from
the butt of the tree, exposing the
main roots near the diseased
area.
“K.T.”; It is good policy to
keep a few rams in reserve
during mating. If any lose con-
dition, or receive injuries, or
have to be removed for any
other reason a fresh one can be
substituted. When a number of
rams lose condition poorer fer-
tility averages as well as weaker
lambs can result,
“Rooster”: Onions have a
short storage life if harvested
prematurely. In districts where
sprjng and summer rainfall is
low they can be left in the
ground until the foliage dies
down. With humid conditions
they are best lifted as soon as
the foliage falls over and starts
to yellow. Cure the bulbs by
allowing them to lie on the sur-
face until the foliage becomes
dry. Place on their sides in
order to shed any rain or heavy
dew. Store on trays under cover
from rain.
“M.”: Checks due to water
shortage result in stunted growth
and coarse texture in vegetables ;
none will grow to perfection
unless adequately watered right
through its growing period.
Deep caterings once or twice a
week are better than light daily
sprinklings, which don’t reach
the lower roots and tend to bring
the fine upper roots to the sur-
face. In the evening of a hot,
dry day lightly surface-sprinkle
the foliage to restore wilted
plants.
“Gem”: Cement-up cracks in
concrete as soon as they ap-
pear ; cracks allow the air to
get at steel reinforcement, caus-
ing it to corrode more rapidly.
“C.A.A.”; Best all - round
wheat for the Victorian Mallee,
which faces its best season since
the record year of 1916-17, is
the locally-produced Insignia,
according to officers at Walpeup
research-station. An early-
maturing wheat evolved at
Walpeup in 1946, Insignia has
proved superior in yield, resist-
ance to disease and milling
quality to such popular new
wheats as Quadrat, Pinnacle,
Pindar, Diadem, Warrego, Jave-
lin, Gabo, Koorda and Bencub-
bin.
“Sundowner”: In harvesting
herbs for drying best time is be-
tween November and January,
for it’s then they contain the
maximum amount of essential
oils. Place cut bunches under
cover as soon as possible in a
moderately cool, dark place
which has plenty of air. Spread
out on trays or shallow boxes
lined with paper to catch fallen
leaves as they dry. If stacked
allow air to circulate between
trays. Turn bunches every day
or so,
“Metax”: If the handsaw is
a bit dull sawing can be made
easier by keeping an oily rag
handy and giving the saw an
occasional rub with it.


Pi-
TO NEW ZEALAND
FOR YOUR HOLIDAYS
EVERYONE HAS TIME FOR A NEW ZEALAND HOLIDAY-
TEAL WILL TAKE YOU IN A FEW HOURS BY LUXURIOUS
FLYING BOAT.
Save days and see all New Zealand on a short
holiday, Rotorua (boiling lakes, geysers, Maori
music and colours), fjords, glaciers, glow-worm
caves, swordfishing—all at their best this summer.
Fly to New Zealand for your holidays. Empire
Games at Auckland 4-11 February, 1950.
fd
Reservations:
Qantas and Leading Travel Agents
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED
in association with Q. £. A., B. 0. A. C. and B. C. P. A.
-THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has *^ e finest features
cl high-priced imported
machines at only a frac-
tion ol their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
BuiLt entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Oistrlbutlng Agents —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold A Co. Ply. Ltd.
, Norman Bros. Ply Ltd.
Vardon & Sons Ltd.
Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
mM
€
m
1
-
» • •;
H
No. 1 DESIGN: SIZE 3'4}" HIGH, 57i" WIDE
Place Your Order Now
Orders are now being accepted for WUNDER-
LICH Terra-Cotta Fireplace Surrounds to No. 1
Design (as illustrated) also Surrounds for slow
combustion and Wonderheat Stoves. The glaze
finish is a mottled Cream-Buff.
Ask at local Hardware Stores, call MX 2411 or
write to Box 474 G.P.0., Sydney, for details.
Fireplace surrounds
OF GLAZED TERRA-COTTA
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Can’t we find a personality
capable of busting all the rackets
and blackrnarketeering that exist
today?”— Sydney “D.T
Perhaps he has Bobbed-up
already.
❖ 4* 4*
“Australia is teeming with doctors
and alive with engineers, but there
are few actors.”
' —English actor Robert Morley.
Hams were scarce this Christ-
mas now we come to think of it.
4* 4* 4*
“Scotty pups, black, ch. ped., M.,
F. O.S. male pom., lovely pest,
cheap.”— “S. M. Herald.”
Truth in advertising,
4* 4* 4*
“Should a woman marry a man
younger than herself?”
•—Correspondent in Sydney “D.T.”
Certainly, dear. He’ll age
rapidly enough.
4* 4* 4*
“At what age should a young
woman be allowed a latchkey?”
— Woman’s magazine.
When she’s old enough not to
let herself in for trouble.
4* 4* 4*
“We are now living in a complete
state of cuckoodom.”
—Labor Commoner R. R. Stokes.
. Englishmen can’t expect relief
till they, too, give Socialists the
bird.
Washed Up.
“At a West Australian race meeting
a horse ran off the course and finished
up in the river.” — Sporting paper.
This sort of thing liquidates
bank balances, dissolves faith
and get§ the average punter
wringing wet. After all, there’s
enough sogginess between races
to dampen his spirits without
adding the cold douche to his
optimism by building race-
courses near rivers and letting
his fancy bathe during the run-
ning of a race.
First, soaking himself in form
and figures, he seeks the solu-
tion. Dipping deep, he plunges
10 bob of his 11s. 2d. on his
guess and, splashing a deener in
a pool of beer in the bar, drowns
doubt before ducking out to
join the sea of faces to view the
race.
The rest would »drench angels
in tears. Immersed in trepida-
tion and moist of brow, he
watches as, past the stands, they
surge amid a wave of cheering,
but that’s scant sop to our
punter’s rapidly-thawing expec-
tations. Suddenly all hope melts
and enthusiasm evaporates.
Finally even the poor sap’s
language becomes fluid as
realisation dawns that now he is
in deep water. In fact, with only
tuppence between him and
home, he’s sunk.
Percival.
4* 4* 4*
“A British tobacco-manufacturer
will try to market a cigarette made
with waterproof paper.”
These should be a success for
divers reasons.
4* 4* 4*
“Marriage is a triumph for a
woman.” — Dorothy Dix.
Which she achieves after a
successful engagement.
4* 4* 4*
“A small pellet which chemists in
Britain sell fattens a rooster and
turns him into a mincing, sexless
creature. He loses his crow and all
his masculine arrogance.”
“I was drinking and betting too
heavily, so gout out, losing several
thousand.”— Sydney “Daily Mirror
It cost him a poultice.
4* 4* 4*
“We spent the night in the open on
the beach. We started a fire and
coked some fish.”—Sydney “Sun.”
It tasted grate.
Best of a Grubby Lot.
“Rahim Husseinov, a biologist of
Azerbaijan (Russia), claims to have
developed the best silkworm in the
world.”
It’s nice to know that Com-
munists,
Who’ve infiltrated every land
With underhand protagonists
As well as their admitted
band
And who from early morn till
late
Have spread on every foreign
soil
The seeds of enmity and hate.
Have found a humble worm
to toil
On decent lines, for it as yet
(Although the evidence is
thin)
Alone in all the Soviet
May give the world a decent
spin.
D: H. E.
The human male is not content
Now ms virility is spent,
But all the lore of science brings
To make of other living things
Creatures effeminate as he.
Sexless and mincing daintily ;
A situation quite absurd
For any self-respecting bird,
Crowing no longer, and in doubt
If he has aught to crow about.
JEAN STANGER.
No Trouble At All.
Bugsy Bolwerm, Sydney’s
glamor criminal and hero of the
stunt Press, lay on his comfort-
able bunk idly flicking over the
pages of his book of Press-
cuttings. He made a mental note
that on his next escape he’d
phone the papers to use his pro-
file photo, which did him better
justice than the usual full-face
they had been using.
It was particularly gratifying to
him that his last “exploit” had
“ You'll he telling me it goes seven days without
Water next!”
earned him at least 10 times
more space than had ever been
accorded any V.C, winner,
though it rather irked him to
think it was still half a column
short of the splash given to a
description of the obsequies of
Basher Jorkins, Dario’s cele-
brated bottle-and-razor thug
who had been bumped-off in the
last gang-war flare-up.
The simplicity of Bugsy’s last
break had been exceeded only
by that of the official in whose
charge he had been placed.
While waiting in an ante-room
of a court, where he was to give
evidence in support of a friend’s
appeal against a dog-licence fine,
he asked the warder to go and
get him a drink •of water, he
being so overwrought at the
thought of giving evidence that
he felt he was in grave danger
of swooning. When the warder
had walked out, forgetting to
lock the door after him, Bugsy
had simply walked out un-
hurriedly into the street. It was
fortunate that nobody had ever
told the hero’s warden of this
particular trick, or perhaps the
sheer originality of it had com-
pletely deceived him.
That, however, had been his
ninth escape, and he had to
foresee and prepare for the time
when some genius in the Prisons
Department might even decide
to search him for his hacksaw
and file. As he usually kept the
latter instrument in his hip-
pocket, they would scarcely be
daring enough to look there for
it, though he might have to do
something about the hacksaw.
His being regarded as dangerous
made it almost a certainty that
he wouldn’t be handicapped by
handcuffs.
Bugsy had toyed with the idea
of applying for immediate re-
lease from his 12-year stretch
on the grounds that as a chronic
sufferer from claustrophobia his
health was being undermined.
After all, he had a good prece-
dent —hadn’t another glamor-
boy criminal not so long ago
been given his freedom after
having served only a year or two
of a 10-year sentence for
attempted murder because some-
one thought he bad something
wrong with him? Bugsy, how-
ever, had given up this notion as
being insufficiently romantic.
“Daring Escape!” “Intrepid
Gangster!” “Amazing De-
fiance!” these were the
screamer headlines he wanted to
gloat over. Why, just being
let out, he’d never get a decent
Press!
There were a few things to
arrange before he decided when
he’d set the Police Department
budget back another £4OOO or so
‘in a State-wide search for him.
He wanted to go thoroughly
through Houdini’s book on
escapology again—as he had
borrowed it only six times be-
fore from the prison library, it
was reasonably certain they
wouldn’t suspect why he was so
interested in it. Another thing,
he’d have to arrange to get his
pin-stripe double-breaster dry-
cleaned—he wouldn’t think of
escaping in a suit without a
knife-edge crease and meticu-
lously rolled lapels. He’d wear
his Rita Hayworth tie, too —its
conspicuousness would add a bit
of spice to his escape.
One of these days, he thought,
someone might wake up and de-
cree that prisoners taken to the
courts from jail to give evidence
should wear prison clothes.
That would make it awkward
for him —but why worry about
remote contingencies? After
all, wasn’t he in an N.S.W.
prison?
A fortnight later, clad in his
newly-pressed pin-stripe, Bugsy
was about to step into the
prison-van to be transported to
the court to give evidence when
a warder tapped him on the
stomach.
“Gee, you’ve put on a lot of
weight since yesterday,” he said.
“It must be the prison tucker.”
“Yair, that’s it —it agrees with
me,” replied Bugsy evenly. He
gave a twist to the 50ft. of rope
tied around his middle so that
the knot would go around to
his side.
In court Danny the Vag, his
pal, for whom Bugsy was to
give evidence as to his good
character, duly collapsed in the
dock, the court being adjourned
while he recovered in a cell.
Bugsy’s request to be placed in
with Danny so that he could
cheer him up was obligingly
agreed to.
After they had been in there
a couple of minutes a “work-
man” rolled an oxy-acetylene
outfit up to the cell door, guard-
ing which were four warders.
“Where do y’ think you’re
taking that?” asked one.
“To tell y’ the truth, mate,”
replied the broadly - grinning
“workman,” “it’s to let them
two birds in there cut their way
out.”
The warder was so convulsed
with laughter lat the joke he
could hardly stop shaking long
enough to fit the key in the lock.
Ten minutes after the “work-
man” had gone in one of the
warders held up his hand for
silence.
“Listen,” he said. “Can you
hear a hissing noise?”
“Yair,” said another. “I’d
know that sound anywhere.
Snakes. I was reared in the
mulga.”
They were still looking for
the ophidian while Bugsy,
Danny and the oxy-acetylene
man were having schooners in
the pub opposite the court.
“Well, here’s a go,” said
Bugsy, raising hi§ glass. “What’s
the odds I get a handsome offer
from the C. 1.8. shortly?”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Living Monuments
By selecting a monument graven in
stone to be built at Canberra as a
memorial to the Americans who lost their
lives in the defence of this country, Aus-
tralia has revealed herself as sadly out
of step with the rest of the English-
speaking world. In Britain, as shown by
the list of properties under, the control of
the National Trust, the present-day senti-
ment is all in favor of that far more
enduring and more fitting monument, the
park or the scenic reserve. Here are
typical examples, chosen at random from
the pages of the 1946-47 report:
Through the generosity of the Hon.
Miriam Rothschild, 519 acres of wood-
land at Ashton Wold have been set aside
for all time as a nature reserve and as a
memorial to the men of 10 Commando
who fell in the war. At Athelney,
Somerset, the Burrow Mump hill has been
dedicated in the same way as a memorial
to the men of that county who lost their
lives in the defence of their country, and
in Wales one of the most beautiful moun-
tains, Dinas Mawddwy, has been created
a scenic reserve and a memorial to the
men of Bomber Command.
The same thing holds good in America.
Instead of erecting stone columns and
cenotaphs, groves of magnificent old trees
are saved from the sawmillers and are
dedicated as living memorials to those
who fell, or areas of country of great
scenic beauty are turned into memorial
parks.
A really fitting Canberra memorial to
the Americans would be a piece of suit-
able land on a hill overlooking the
Federal capital, selected by our Forestry
people and planted with that typically
American tree, the Californian jedwood.
This tree has the great advantage of being
fireproof, inasmuch as its foliage is not
inflammable when green ; it is also nearer
to being immortal than any other living
thing in the world. Not only does it
continue to grow for thousands of years,
but when even the oldest specimens are
cut down they regenerate by suckers. A
big war-memorial grove of these trees
would increase in beauty with every year,
and would provide a permanent amenity
in the form of a fine park.
Few Australians seem to realise how
our country lags behind others in the
matter of national parks and reserves, but
the official figures leave no room for
doubt. New Zealand, with a total area
less than that of Victoria, leads the world
with 66 million acres reserved. U.S.A.
and Canada each have some 20 million
acres in parks; Australia, with about the
same area, has a little more than four
million acres. In only two States can
the position be regarded as reasonably
good: Queensland has set aside some
700,000 acres of its best forest, moun-
tain, coastal and island country, and Tas-
mania has reserved half-a-million acres.
N. S. Wales, with 1,600,000 acres, makes
the best showing on paper, but much has
yet to be done to make a lot of that
country into real national parks.
In Victoria and Westralia the position
is poor ;in S.A. it is wretched. To cater
for the needs of the large and growing
city of Adelaide, less than 3000 acres
of the Mt. Lofty Ranges has been made
into parks, while nearly half of the central
State’s supposed reserves consist of a
huge, waterless tract of Mallee country,
with no actual or even potential value for
flora and fauna conservation. —H. A.
Lindsay (S.A.).
Food-production
For the last 150 years hunger and
want have been practically banished from
the white world, though the colored races
are still living in conditions which had
existed for the whole world since the
dawn of history—conditions of scarcity
and starvation at all times.
It is too often forgotten that we our-
selves may not always live with this free-
dom from want. On the one hand there
is a yearly increase of 20 million in the
world’s population, and many backward
countries are now trying to raise living
standards. On the other hand land under
cultivation gets smaller every year, there
is no concerted grappling with the soil-
erosion problem, and, in many countries,,
there is a pronounced drift to the city.
Then there is wastage of food. The
Food and Agriculture Organisation of
U.N.O. has calculated that 65 million
tons of grain are destroyed each year by
mites, pests and rodents.
A British scientist, G. Scott Robertson,
has lately urged greater scientific atten-
tion to the growing of grasses, “the best
feeding known for dairy cows or fatten-
ing cattle.” That would allow a big
saving of cereals and grains for human
consumption.
With erosion-control, greater use of
irrigation and mechanisation of land-
labor and scientific methods of plant-
and animal-breeding, food-production
could be doubled or trebled. Very soon
it will need to be. —K. R. (N.S.W.).
Housing
Figures issued by the Government
statistician show very clearly that N. S.
Wales is dragging behind other States in
the housing programme. That is not
altogether unexpected of a State blessed
with a “working-man’s” Government, but
it is disconcerting to discover from the
same figures that the September quarter
of 1949 saw nearly a thousand fewer
houses commenced than the September
quarter of 1948, in spite of the fact that
people are as desperate as ever for
homes.
An obvious cause of the decline in the
number of houses commenced is the high
cost of construction, which has now all
but taken the meanest cottage away be-
yond the reach of the average working-
class family. With the uncertainty as to
the time of delivery, the number of price
rises to be contended with before that
time and the low standard of workman-
ship going into modern houses, people
are fast giving away all ideas of building
new homes of their own “for the pre-
sent.” This development is reflected in
sales of vacant building blocks, which
just now are a drug on the market. Even
“choice” blocks are frequently passed in
at auction sales without so much as a
single bid.
With a change of Government in the
Federal sphere an accomplished fact, and
a similar change in the State next year a
likely possibility, much can be done to
alleviate the housing shortage.
The Socialists have pinned their faith
in controls and regulations designed to
take from those who have and give to
those who have not. Such a policy pro-
duces nothing but class hatred and bitter-
ness. Not a single extra room becomes
available for habitation through legisla-
tion prohibiting eviction and stultifying
the traditional rights of householders anc
property-owners. Instead of encourag-
ing owners of large homes to allocate
unused and unneeded accommodation to
tent- and barn-dwellers, restrictions and
coercion have the opposite effect.
Property-owners will take no chances
with conditions beyond their control, and
would rather keep empty rooms locked
up. Nor can they be blamed in the cir-
cumstances.
Similarly, under the restrictive rent-
pegging legislation investment property
has become uneconomic—so much so
that people are no longer building houses
to let to people they cannot control at
rentals that will not return them their
capital outlay.
The N.S.W. Government recently
amended the Local Government Act to
permit of the subdivision of over-large
homes—a piece of legislation that could
have brought many extra home units into
being. But because of its intense hatred
for landlords the Government has done
nothing to protect property-owners who
reconstruct their houses. Once owners
let part, or the whole, of their property
they immediately become subject to the
savage Landlord and Tenant Act, 1948-
49. Moreover, in assessing fair rents of
subdivided homes, the Fair Rent Boards
—under Government direction —will not
take into account the .capital expenditure
involved in reconstruction. Such items
of capital expenditure as hot water and
heating systems are also struck out. Is
it any wonder that property-owners are
a disheartened, frustrated people?
There is much room for the incoming
Minister for Works and Housing to
demonstrate his talents —lowering costs,
speeding production and seeking the co-
operation of other Governments in the
removal of spiteful and vicious class
legislation like the L. and T. Act which
blights N. S. Wales.— Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Apathy
Neither “Dee” (B. 26/10/’49) nor P. O.
MacCabe (B. 30/11 /’49) gives sufficient
reason for our casualness. It matters little
whether we are a young race or an old
one. The individual citizen, of pioneer
stock or freshly imported, is affected by
his immediate environment more than by
heredity He may be apathetic today and
energetic tomorrow according to parti-
cular circumstances. Climatic and indus-
trial conditions can turn a loafer into a
trier and vice versa.
Forty years ago I came here from a
land where merciless winters compelled
every man to plan well ahead to provide
shelter, food and clothing. Apathy was
punished by penury. Jobs were scarce,
and social security could be achieved only
by hard work and keen foresight. I
arrived in a land where there was no
winter to fear, where food was plentiful
and cheap, where jobs were easily found,
where workers left the despised
“brownies” on the bar-counter and “went
walkabout” when they felt like it. Immi-
grants of all races reacted similarly to the
same conditions, and I was no exception.
During the depression the rule operated
in reverse. I watched a gang of navvies
excavating a new railway cutting, while a
long queue of unemployed men waited
for possible vacancies. The ganger had
a sinecure.
The same principle applies to men of
every class. The politician before an
election talks himself hoarse and explores
every avenue to popularity. If successfu
his apathy can often be measured by th
size of his majority. It was Carnegie wh
said that no man was in such danger oi
moral slacking as the son of a millionaire
It is the same with nations. A few
years of carefree peace and easy
abundance can induce a casualness tha
is more deadly than the imminent breach
Australians are apathetic because they
have been pampered by nature and fate
They will become vigilant and efficien
only if they are stirred and disciplined by
the stem hand of economic, industrial
and military necessity.— Old Migrant
(S.A.).
Harvest-camps
The harvest-camps in Great Britain
18. 7/12/’49) are an excellent idea, but
they are not necessary in Australia for
anyone who wants to spend his holidays
(or longer periods) getting to know the
country.
In Tasmania, for instance, small fruit-
growers advertise every summer for
pickers; they provide comfortable huts,
many with electric light; free milk, wood
and potatoes, with other commodities
supplied at city prices. They pay about
£1 for every 1001 b. of fruit picked (the
price varies with the kind of fruit). In
the autumn thousands of pickers are
wanted on the hopfields, and for picking
and packing apples.
In S.A. we picked grapes for two
seasons. At our last season (1948) the
grower paid our return fares from Ade-
laide to Renmark, and met us at the bus
terminal in his car. We lived in his house
and were treated as members of the
family—excellent food, use of the sitting-
room and books, trips in the car. I was
paid about £6 ss. ar week and my wife
about £4 155., with 30s. and 255, deducted
for board.
Those are two States in which we had
personal experience of that kind of
work ; in the others there are similar jobs
offering. If the job-seeker is too lazy
or too diffident to make his own arrange-
ments, the Commonwealth Employment
Service will do it for him free. — Tas-
wegian (Tas.).
Railways and Roads
Because there is so much public money
sunk in railways the problem of rail and
road is always seen as an opposition be-
tween them (B. 30/11/’49). The roads
themselves are their own handicap,
especially their heavy grades. Why not
build trunk roads on railway grades?
Given a maximum grade of one in 50,
prime movers of the diesel-type with
trailers could move loads of 100 tons and
over.
Existing mountain road-grades in
Queensland are of the “up-and-over”
type, steepening to one-in-seven in places.
No rail locomotive could look at these
grades. The road between Proserpine
and Bowen (Central Q.) has to be seen
to be believed, and the open-crossing
over the Proserpine River is incredible
even when seen.
The draughtboard type of right-angle
intersecting roads are characteristic of
all our country towns, however moun-
tainous. New layouts should all be con-
toured on easy grades. And let us have
viaducts like the Romans built 2000 years
ago —not timber structures with a five-
or 10-ton* load-limit and approaches as
steep as the side of a house.
Given roads and viaducts on grades
similar to railways, built with the vast
sums collected by way of vehicle and
petrol tax, there would be a basis of
comparison between road and rail effici-
ency. At present there is not. —J. A.
Gresty (Q.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 49
Across.
I—Notorious banner is to speak
noisily when Alfred is backed by
an American President. (8)
s—Explosive5—Explosive means this evening
after dark, to Americans. (6)
10— Loving to make a phone-call
after the fuss. (7) *
11— These commercial men ruin the
red star. (7)
12— Indisposed. (3)
13— I dare return a communication
that can be rooted out. (10)
16—The tavern you finish with
nothing but a dirty insinuation.
,o (8)
18— Cohen confuses a biblical charac-
ter. (5)
19— A case in France involves the
last of the Mohicans. (5)
21—A protracted stay keeps the
sundries down. (8)
24—Shades and I deaden the feeling
of taxes. (10)
26—Are back in the epoch. (3)
28—Drag the girl back for the fellow
who doesn’t keep up with the
crowd. (7)
30— Do trace a soldier Communist
keeping company at last. (7)
31— Smollett is given to prejudice. (6)
32 Domiciles paronomasia for
rough-and-ready textiles. (8)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Down.
1— Grossly wicked standard has it
with acknowledgments of debt.
(10)
2 Organ shows a parrot standing on
a holy image. (11)
3 Elevate. (5)
4 Miser is to tug the lubra up-
wards. (7)
6 Beef has an unpunctual chemical.
(7)
7 Fury. (3)
8 — Dreamy Wagnerian taken from
the sale. (4)
9 Take off the coverings of an
epitaph on a holy man. (5)
14— Two pools turned about the
aerobatic feat. (4, 3,4)
15 — She has a soft musical role on
the Victorian town. (10)
17 —Oklahoma’s most famous product.
(3)
20 —Total degree to state the island
in the N.E.I. (7)
22 Returning no thanks to the
Spanish river lake in America. (7)
23 — Piano journey on horseback
is the proverbial prelude to a
fall. (5)
25 —Movg. sideways. (5)
27 —150 to turn a coagulated mass. (4)
29 —Produced by earbashers. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 48.


v . O
f-
*
-•
The A.W.A. monogram on any instrument is a mark of
quality and scientific craftsmanship. It is the symbol of the
Radio Age, representing the knowledge gained from research
and engineering over more than 35 years.
Behind all A.W.A. products and services are the A.W.A.
laboratories, which have advanced radio in the home, on the
highways, at sea, and in the air. As one of Australia’s key
industrial organisations, A.W.A. recognises the value of
scientific research and its important role in peace and security.
Investigations now in progress include the use of frequency
modulation for telephone communication with moving
vehicles, as well as for broadcasting, development of special
transmitters and receivers to improve radio-telephone services
between Australia and overseas countries, television and
work on a number of new radio aids for navigation.
Over 1000 ships of the Merchant Navy are equipped with
A.W.A. wireless apparatus.
The progress made by commercial aviation and the enormous
mileages covered are due in a large measure to the develop-
ment of wireless and its application to aerial navigation and
communication.
A.W.A. maintains in a serviceable condition all radio equip-
ment in Australian commercial aircraft and overseas aircraft
operating to Australia. Over 150 Aircraft for 20 different
companies are serviced by A.W.A. This has necessitated the
establishment of radio-servicing depots at all principal
aerodromes.
BROADCASTING TRANSMITTING STATIONS
WIRELESS TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE STATIONS
AERONAUTICAL RADIO EQUIPMENT
MARINE WIRELESS
RADIOLA BROADCAST RECEIVERS
SOUND AMPLIFYING SYSTEMS
m$
■
i" -il : iiii I
■HMI
WEWi'i mimmmmm
, 'VS% ■ * * »
m
:
a t
■1
i’t
Ship’s Wireless Station
mmmmmrnm
M
11
■
iws«
60,000-watt Broadcast Transmitter
'
'
■
mm I.!
■■■■■■
■■-'v.
;* A
11
1
K
1
1
a i
Si
m
Radiola Assembly at Works
fel
■
■
mw%
' m
'V*- ■
mm
■ I
rt:
H
k
■
■
* 1
Studio Control Apparatus
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Australasia) ’ LTD.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Also at WELLINGTON, N.Z., and AUSTRALIA HOUSE, LONDON
