

PURPLE PARA
A PRODUCT OF THE
FD
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70-No. 3629
Wednesday, August 31, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ancient Borough of Stamford,
situated on the Great North Road
at the junction of the counties of Lincoln,
Rutland and Northampton, has been
connected with many stirring events in
English history. It is renowned also for
its many architectural treasures, whose
very atmosphere is redolent with tradition
of past ages. During the Roman occu-
pation the town was known as Staunford
—a name derived from an important
ford which crossed the Welland Valley
at this point on the great Roman road
to the north known as Ermine Street.
It is recorded that in 449 a.d. the Piets
and Scots, who had ravaged the country
as far south as Stamford, were defeated
here by the British chieftain Vortigern,
with his Saxon allies under Hengist. In
870, after many battles, the Danes finally
captured the town, which, nevertheless,
thrived and became an important market
town. In 972, under a charter of the
Saxon King Edgar, Stamford became a
Royal Borough, and a mint was estab-
lished here. Under the Normans the
Royal Borough rose in importance and
was the scene of Parliaments, Councils
and important gatherings of the times.
In 1215 a large number of Barons, who
opposed King John’s autocratic rule, met
at Stamford and assembled an army
there which marched to London and ex-
torted the famous Magna Charta, the
keystone of English liberties, from King
John at Runnymede.
Owing to the importance of its posi-
tion on the main road, Stamford, in
medieval times, was surrounded by a
strong fortified wall guarded by towers
and gates. It contained a remarkable
group of religious establishments—
monasteries, colleges, priories, hospitals
and churches, and the town was cele-
brated throughout Europe as a great
centre of religious learning.
Today St. Mary’s Church, illustrated
here, which occupies the site of an
early Saxon church, is regarded as the
“Mother” church of the town. The main
body of the church was built in the
thirteenth century, but in 1461 it was
rebuilt in the Perpendicular and
Decorated Styles. The tower is sur-
mounted by a spire which is a magnifi-
cent example of the Decorated style of
architecture, built in an age when skilled
craftsmen abounded and who took great
pride in the excellence of their own work
and achievements.
AN ARMY MARCHED FROM STAMFORD TO WIN THE MAGNA CHARTA


DF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
( Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 249
AOE.
The Red Page
RODIRIC QUINN
Roderic Quinn was a Bulletin poet
and personality for longer than the
oldest inhabitant of the office can re-
member. His first contribution, “A
Dreamer,” appeared in the issue of
March 31, 1894:
She came as such a hush that comes
Between the beat of sounding drums,
When silence seems to thrill with sound;
She came as comes the summer night,
Alive with silver sound and sight.
And lit by one round rose of white.
Only a few others —Ted Brady,
Bernard O’Dowd, Will Ogilvie and
Arthur Bayldon remain of The
Bulletin group of the ’nineties. Of the
four, only Ogilvie—he lives in Scotland
—writes for the paper today.
Rod once said that he was born in
Surry Hills, so close to Woolloomooloo
that he sometimes thought that he was
entitled to claim the ’Loo as his birth-
place. The sixth child of a family of
nine —his father was a Galway man who
arrived in Sydney during the gold-rush
years —Rod first saw daylight in 1869.
Brady, Ogilvie, David McKee Wright
and E. S. Sorenson were born in the
same year. “Banjo” Paterson was then
a sturdy nipper of five.
Rod attended various Catholic
parochial schools, and while a pupil at
the Marist Brothers’ High School, Darl-
inghurst, met E. J. Brady, who was to
become a lifelong friend.
Not long before Rod died I quoted
to him the words of a “Red Page” re-
viewer of Brady’s The Ways of Many
Waters: “Brady spells vigor, and his
meat is of the strongest—aye, salt junk
from the harness-cask.” “Aye,” responded
Rod, drawing hard on his cherrywood
pipe. “And of good black tobacco
soaked in rum.”
Brady left school to become a ship-
ping-clerk, a position that, as Rod once
said, “led him down almost daily to the
Quay, where lay the clipper ships that
come now no more to port.” Rod’s first
position was less congenial. He worked
for a produce-merchant, and was fired
for sending out an account to the firm’s
best customer for £BO instead of £B.
He studied law irregularly for three
years, then became a teacher in charge
of a provisional school at Milbrulong
(N.S.W.). At the end of six months he
resigned because the Education Depart-
ment wanted to reduce his salary of 30s.
a week by five shillings.
A little later Victor Daley said to Rod
“You can have the whole lot of my
poems cheap. I’m selling-out as a poet.
Tomorrow I am going into the post-
office to add up figures, Fi'om now on
1 intend to earn my living honestly.”
Rod followed his brother-poet into
another civil-service position, but soon
Victor was back on the Inky Way, and
so was Rod. Victor returned to his sun-
sets and Rod took up the editorship of
the North Sydney “News.” He was in
his 25th year when his first verse was
accepted by Archibald. An elder
brother, Pat, had been writing for The
Bulletin for 13 years, but the younger
was soon to eclipse the elder. He quickly
became a familiar Bulletin name, writ-
ing both verse and stories under his own
signature and the nom-de-plume “Briga-
low.”
His first book of verse, The Hidden
Tide, was published in 1899. The same
year The Bulletin also published books
of verse by Arthur Adams and Brady,
and the previous year it had put out
Ogilvie’s Fair Girls and Gray Horses.
Angus and Robertson had already issued
collections of poems by Lawson, Pater-
son, Dyson, Boake and Daley. There
was a boom in Australian poetry that
was to last until after World War I.
The Hidden Tide was the first of the
famed Bulletin Booklets, edited by A.
G. Stephens, and with another book by
Rod, The Circling Hearths, Hubert
Church’s The West Wind, Hebble-
thwaite’s A Rose of Regret, Louise
Mack’s Dreams in Flowers and O’Dowd’s
Downward ? was issued in 1904 in an
anthology called A Southern Garland.
A. G. Stephens wrote of Quinn’s
verses:
For here, surely, are a poet’s bubbles,
delicately mirthful, wistfully melancholy,
shot with all the colors of his moods,
reflecting all the images of his mind, blown
by the breath of the Muse into a profound
and secret sky whither only inner eye and
ear may follow them.
Rod wrote little prose, but the little
that he wrote was uncommonly good.
He did not think much of his only novel,
Mostyn Stayne, a story based on an old
diary, published in 1897. Some years
ago Rod wanted a copy, ancf I ran one
to earth in a secondhand bookshop. It
cost Rod a guinea or so, and 1 remem-
ber him growling: “I don’t think I got
much more out of it in royalties.”
Bulletin editor J. E. Webb always
maintained that Rod’s prose had a dis-
tinctive quality that would have earned
him a higher reputation had he written
more fiction and literary essays.
Two articles by him that stick in my
mind were a “Red Page” contribution
called “A Vanished Atmosphere,” and
another he wrote for the Diamond Jubi-
lee number called “In the Days of Law-
son and Daley.”
For years Rod had been urged by those
of us who were close to him to give us a
book of his reminiscences—a gargantuan
volume about himself and his con-
temporaries. There are books—Jose’s
The Romantic ’Nineties and Taylor’s
Those Were the Days are two —covering
the period, but they missed the essen-
tials and failed to capture the atmosphere.
Jose was too academic and lacked sym-
pathy. Taylor had the ammunition, but
was an indifferent marksman. John Le
Gay Brereton showed in many of his
essays about his contemporaries that he
could have produced a fine book on the
’nineties. So could have Fred Broomfield
or A. G. Stephens, but all three missed
the opportunity. Only Ted Brady could
do it now.
Rod sauntered the Inky Way for
nearly 60 years. He used to join the com-
pany at Bill Snudden’s Star Hotel, at the
corner of George- and Dalley-streets, and
tell us of the rusted butcher’s knife that
hung above Jimmy Edmond’s desk, be-
neath which was scrawled a bloodcurd-
ling legend having a significance for
pestiferous poets ; or how Harry Morant
(“The Breaker”) rode a wild, half-tamed
mare into the downstairs office and de-
manded an advance on copy from Tom
McMahon, who was the accountant in
those days. Sometimes he would tell of
his tours with Lawson of the homely
little pubs that abounded on The Rocks.
Then there was the story of Henry
Lawson’s overcoat, a handsome gar-
ment given by a friend. For a whole
winter week Lawson woTe it, and then
wore it no more, explaining that it was
down at Uncle Rosentall’s “learning
Hebrew.”
In his youngei days Rod was a lead-
ing member of the old Dawn and Dusk
Club, a Bohemian group whose motto
was “Roost High and Crow Low,” and
whose rules were printed in Chinese so
as not to give offence to members.
Membership was confined to writers and
artists, and included such lively spirits
as Randolph Bedford, Dave Souter, Nel-
son Illingworth and Norman Lindsay.
Says a history of the club:
Rod was always calm and philosophical,
with a voice ever musical and with
language exquisite. To recall Rod as the
billy boiled, when we had a picnic on a
beach, opening his soul to us with a new-
found verse, is one of the happiest
memories of those old-time days.
This “Sydneyside Celt,” as Rod was
once described, seldom strayed from his
native city. He knew its cliffs and beaches
from Jibbon to Barrenjoey, the sheltered
bays of its harbor, the crooked city
streets, the lights of King’s Cross and
the quiet of Parramatta parklands, the
sandhills between Kurnell and Cronulla
and the creeks that flow into Narrabeen
Lake from the wilds of French’s Forest.
But Rod was never a bushman in the
sense that the term was applied to him
on his death by various city dailies.
A phenomenon in Australian literature,
he had, since reaching adulthood, lived
almost entirely on the proceeds of his
poetry. While his writings never earned
for him caviare and champagne, but
mostly bread and cheese and an occa-
sional glass of ale, he was able, unfet-
tered by a job, to ramble at his will and
to enjoy every precious moment of life.
I remember Rod when I last saw him
at Lucy Cassidy’s home at Waverley
(N.S.W.). Seated in an armchair, his un-
ruly hair falling across his forehead, his
blue eyes peering beneath shaggy eye-
brows, striking a box of safety-matches
to a pipeful of tobacco. Rod majestically
growled through his nicotine-stained
moustache or softly whispered all
through an autumn afternoon as he
talked about old times.
The last note I had from him was en-
closed in a first-day cover bearing the
Henry Lawson stamp. It read:
29 Woodstock St.,
Bondi Junction.
Here he is, Billy, by the first post. Hang
him up in a prominent place to haunt your
thoughts forever.
Rod Quinn.
W. E. Fitz Henry.
In Topless Tibet.
High Valley (Angus and Robertson) by
Charmian Clift and George Johnston, the
novel which won the second of “S. M.
Herald’s” annual competitions, is very
different from the novel which won the
first competition, Ruth Park’s The Harp
in the South. The most striking difference
is not that one is set in a remote valley
among the mountains of Tibet and the
other in the slums of Sydney, but that
High Valley is as polished as any best-
seller from overseas, \vhereas The Harp
in the South showed the uncertainty of
the amateur from beginning to end.
In one respect George Johnston and
Charmian Clift join Miss Park in
amateurism, or at least in -surrender to
facility, and that is in their plot. Ruth
Park invited her readers to follow the
adventures of a girl until somebody
married her ; George Johnston and Char-
mian Clift invite us to follow the adven-
tures of a boy and girl in Tibet until —
after an unofficial marriage in a blizzard
—they perish.
Essentially, these plots are identical.
They are “boy-meets-girl,” as the Ameri-
cans tersely put it. It is the easiest, the
most obvious and the commonest of all
patterns for the novel, and the amateur
seems always to regard it as the only
possible one. Yet The Nigger of the
Narcissus deals with the effect produced
in a ship’s crew by a sick negro ; Bleak
House deals with blackmail; other
patterns, thousands of them, are possible.
Those who use the boy-meets-girl
formula err in a large company, among
which are many distinguished novelists ;
yet the fact remains that it is extra-
ordinarily difficult to care whether the
boy gets the girl or not; especially when,
as in High Valley, it is obvious that the
girl Veshti cannot possibly submit to the
idiot to whom she is betrothed nor to
the lustful lama who pursues her but
must inevitably, one way or another, fall
into the arms of the Chinese boy Salom
who is the hero.
But if George Johnston and Charmian
Clift have this much in common with
Ruth Park, they have nothing else. The
Harp in the South, however much it may
have surprised the suburbs, was an essay
in the familiar tradition of the Australian
novel and the short story: the tradition
of artless realism. That it degenerated
into sentimentality is beside the point. It
set out to give a picture of life as it is.
George Johnston and Charmian Clift
have set out to give a picture of life
as it isn’t. Or, more accurately, to distil
an essence of life; to show us not what
happens but what could happen ; to show
not the plain, unvarnished truth but truth
symbolic and varnished. Girls, even in
Tibet, are not usually betrothed to such
slobbering idiots as Dochi; they are not
pursued, unless they are exceptionally
lucky, by such altogether satisfying ogres
as Yanong; but perhaps they meet such
creatures in nightmare ; and certainly their
boy-friends, when aroused to jealousy,
tend to regard their rival boy-friends as
idiots and ogres. So we have, in High
Valley, not everyday life but symbolical
truth. And why not?
It is true that George Johnston and
Charmian Clift, so far as conscious in-
tention goes, have tried to give a true
picture of life in Tibet. There are flowery
landscapes and squalid huts, there are
descriptions of marriage-customs and
burial-customs, there are bears and
wolves and demons and an amusing and
unexpectedly realistic portrait of a Living
Buddha —but all these everyday truths are
caught up in a romantic mood ; lifted
beyond normality into a realm where
nothing is quite credible except as an
essence or a symbol. And when the
story reaches its culmination in the im-
probable love-scene in the blizzard, there
we have pure symbol: the lovers, like
Romeo and Juliet, and like the lovers
down the flooded coalmine in Zola’s
Germinal, are killed as monuments to
the immortality of passion.
Now, George Johnston and Charmian
Clift are not, alas, Shakspeare. And what
is suitable for a serial in the “Herald”
and in no way inferior to the average
bestseller from abroad may still not be
quite suitable for adult reading. The
present reviewer, beyond being interested
in the travel-notes and enjoying the
portrait of the fat old Living Buddha —
which are the realistic portions of the
novel —cannot really care deeply for this
romantic and melodramatic fairy-tale in
itself. For its freshness, its patches of
merit and its local interest one might
well prefer The Harp in the South.
But what remains admirable in High
Valley is the attempt—even though it
will not bear close examination —at a
melodious prose style; and the firm
delineation of such partly-real characters
as the headman Muhlam ; and the skilful
weaving of the whole village community
into the central plot; and the swift and
clean movement of the story, so different
from the usual flounderings of the ama-
teurs ; the competence and polish of the
whole ; and, above all, the refusal of the
authors to be bound by mere common-
place reality—the development of the
characters to the extreme.
There should be no need for Aus-
tralian authors to emigrate to Tibet in
a body in order to win the next “Herald”
competition or to write a readable novel.
Ordinary people—provided the writer can
show how extraordinary they really are
—always make the best material; and,
in fact, one would like to see what George
Johnston and Charmian Clift could do
with “the naked city” Mr. Johnston has
been writing about in Sydney “Sun.” But
there is a great need for the average
novelist and short-story writer to develop
the qualities of imagination and drama
that make the world’s great fiction as well
as the popular romances; to approach
the novel not merely as a slice of life but
as a work of art.
Sketches.
The careful little short sketch or slice
of life has its place in magazines; and
when Henry Lawson writes it, it holds the
attention due to genius in whatever form
it makes itself clear. Life was not merely
mirrored in Katherine Mansfield’s
sketches, but flashed as it passed. But
Harvest, by John K. Ewers (Angus and
Robertson), is no more than a mirror;
exhibiting, at best, a patient fidelity.
From the ruck of the collection “Dog-
watch” stands out: a night-shift furnace-
man quarrels with his fireman-mate who
spilt his coffee; he bashes him dead with
a piece of coal, and then throws him into
the furnace. After a bout of horror, he
realises that he has been day-dreaming;
and begins talking to his mate. But when
the underground boss comes along and
asks where the mate is, the mate just isn’t
there.
For the rest, the stories of schoolboy
japes, the trapper who left his friend the
soldier’s wife to her own devices, the
young couple who lived with the girl’s
parents because of the housing shortage
and found it awkward, etc., are better
than Mr. Ewers’s novels, but neither
better nor worse than an average dozen
sketches by a dozen other Australian
writers.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Storm Breaks: Arthur Cask
(Herbert Jenkins, Ltd.). The story that
used to make housemaids, in the days
when there were housemaids, live on in
hope about the girl who marries the hand-
some nephew of her rich patient, and then
is threatened with recognition as a former
nurse in an abortionist’s studio; she
evades countless traps of fate, shoots a
blackmailer and discovers in the nick of
time that the Judge is her long-lost un-
married father.
* * * *
Blondie Iscariot: Edgar Lustgarten
(Museum Press). A tough-guy story
about a tough, but beautiful, young lady
who bestows her affections upon the
leader of a gang which exacts protection-
money from London prostitutes, and
when another gang threatens his
supremacy betrays him and takes up a
similar position with the new overlord—
so healthily athletic, so lacking in the
intensity, subtlety and depravity of its
American counterparts, as to suggest that
Mr. Lustgarten is only doing it to get
dollars for poor old Granny Cripps.
* * *
Try Anything Twice: Peter Cheyney
(Collins). Mr. Cheyney seems to have
retired his two previous sleuths,
Caution and Calleghan, they, no
doubt, being wom-out by the demands of
the seraglios they have collected, one
new beauteous dame at the end of each
book. His new detective, Nick Gale, is
already carrying the torch for a general s
daughter when the story opens, and it
ends with the suggestion that he may
marry her —up to now an unthinkable
degradation for a Cheyney hero. The
story, about a rich girl whose coming
marriage has been blasted by a newspaper
libel, is far below the standard of that
touchstone of the Cheyney art, The
Urgent Hangman, although from an un-
known writer it might seem a very'
promising job. #
An Introduction to European Paint-
ing : Eric Newton (Longmans). En-
larged and revised edition of the book
first published as a Pelican. Mr. New-
ton has a chatty, buttonholing style
which makes one prefer to read him at
a little distance ; and his point of view
is such that one prefers to read him up-
side-down. His reaction to a Russian
ikon of the Virgin, which evokes “a re-
sponse much more intense than I can
ever make to a picture by Rembrandt,
represents the last ditch of that aesthe-
ticism originated by Whistler and Howell
with the worship of Japanese prints ana
ginger-jars. But, purely for its informa-
tion, it is a useful book.


‘TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING”
mm HORDERIV
3
i
:'-1
a
m
Everything a Golfer requires
s
IS IN OUR MODERN SPORTS DEPARTMENT, LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT STREET
A- —Leather Golf Biig. Popular with menfolk, has large jacket pocket, ball pocket, padded
shoulder strap. 6in. diameter bag in Black, Tan, with hood, £6/11 /-; without hood, £4/18/-.
B. Oval Leather Bag. In Burgundy, Green, Navy Blue or Black leather, this bag has three
cane supports, large jacket bag, ball pocket, card, pencil, tee holders, padded strap. 99/6.
C. Oval Golf Bag, An oval shaped Golf Bag with four cane supports, boasts a hood or jacket
pocket and spacious ball pocket. In leather, price, £5/5/6. In canvas, price, £3/13/-.
Accessories. Wood covers, 3/-, 4/3, 6/3. Balls: 3/1, 3/6, 4/-; Silver King, 4/3; Penfolds, 4/6.
V
r>
X!)
V:
Tennis Essentials...
Slazenger “Challenge” Championship Gut, 99/6
Alexander ‘“Cressy” Championship Gut . . 99/6
Dunlop “Maxply” Championship Gut ... 99/6
Oliver’s “Blue Bird” Championship Gut .. 99/6
Medley’s “Finalist” Championship Gut .... 99/6
No. 1 quality Standard Tennis Nets .... £6/4/8
No. 2 quality Standard Tennis Nets .... £5/9/0
All first grade makes Tennis Balls .... 30/- doz.
Tennis Racket Covers, 5/-, 5/6, 6/6, 7/6, 8/- each
Tennis Racket Presses 4/2 and 7/7 each
Eye Shades 2/-, 3/1, 3/9, 3/11 each
«*
Slasenger’s “Sl&bhtg Loche 99 wood
True temper shaft and persimmon head,
79/6. “Bobby Locke” iron with stainless
steel head, sand blasted face, true temper
shaft, 69/6. Gent’s right hand clubs only!.
1
Wm
®® 0
®® ® ® ®
®®® ® ®
®®® ® ®
R® ® ® ®
®® ® ®
9 «®0
®®
©««»
®® ® ©
Cc
H ® : ;0.0 ® ® ® ® ® ffi ®
P ft®®® ®o® ®® ®®
e®© ®® ® a® a
Milnecraft Wood with genuine
American persimmon head, true temper
shaft, perforated grip, 73/3; iron with
stainless steel head, perforated grip, 66/-.
Ladies’ or Gent’s right and left hand.
r
li
V
«ga
mmm
Carnegie Clarke Wood
Has inlaid fibre face, persimmon head,
tempered shaft, 73/3; iron has stainless
steel head, 66/-. Ladies’ and Gent’s right
hand only. Please state weight and height.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ SPORTS DEPT.—LOWER GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3629
Wednesday, August 31, 1949
THAR SHE BLOWS!
“With the pre-election session of Parliament beginning next week, the Federal ‘Labor* Government has ordered three whale-chasers for its proposed whaling industry..


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SOCIALISTS' DOLLAR-HUNT.
To the ties of kinship binding Australia
to Britain Mr. Chifley (through Mr.
Dedman at the July conference in
London) has added the leg-irons of the
“great Socialist experiment,” and there-
fore the Cripps dollar negotiations in
Washington intimately concern Australia.
There is more to this dispute than the
differences about America’s assisting her
war-impoverished European allies to
stand on their own legs. There is, of
course, a very real American interest in
the resuscitation of countries which are
the United States’ best foreign market.
But in addition to the technical factors
in the debate is one which arouses the
emotional interest of every taxpayer on
each side of the Atlantic. Why should
the United States be expected to sub-
sidise in Britain a political system which
it abhors, and whose alleged merits are
fallacious in the opinion of the majority
of Americans?
Last July at the conference in London
the Socialist Governments of Britain,
Australia and New Zealand agreed that
in this showdown with America Sir
Stafford Cripps should speak for all of
them. To the extent that British
Socialists must go short of dollars, so
shall we also. When London cuts British
dollar imports, Canberra will cut Aus-
tralian dollar imports in proportion.
When Socialist Father says “Turn,” we
all turn. “Organising scarcity and
equalising misery” is promoted to be an
Empire-wide policy.
Since Australia has thus asked for it,
everything being said in the mounting
chorus of American criticism of Britain
now applies largely to ourselves, Mr.
Chifley’s assurances that we can weather
the effects of any overseas slump are
liable to be taken as wishful thinking,
especially as other Ministers had previ-
ously said quite the opposite. If sterling
falls, does the Chifley pound survive? If
the United States arranges to ease the
balance of payments for Britain by invest-
ing in British industries—new petrol
refineries, for instance—does that relieve
Australia of need to earn dollars for
essential imports? If the Socialist experi-
ment in Britain breaks down, now or by
1952 anyway (when Marshall Aid comes
to an end), is the Chifley brand of
Socialism, tied up with Britain’s, going
to survive?
Said Mr. Paul Hoffman, Marshall Plan
Administrator, speaking to all recipients
of his country’s dollar credits: “I know
of no other constructive way to close a
dollar deficit than to earn a dollar in-
come.” Is Socialist Britain bankrupt or
not? If bankrupt, then she must submit
to terms imposed by those from whom
she seeks relief. If not, then she has to
prove that she can earn the income to
meet highly extravagant expenditure.
To the American demand that
European trade barriers shall be dropped
fas required under the Marshall Aid plan),
the British have replied that the United
States should reduce its own tariff, since
dollar-earning is the common objective.
They say also, and with good warrant,
that British gold and dollar reserves, now
parlously low, must be protected from
the drain which would set in if British
credits extended to other Marshall Aid
countries (another of the plan’s condi-
tions) should become freely transferable.
The British Treasury had one experience
of that calamity in 1947, and Washington
had to consent to measures to stop the
leak. Yet it has also become clear that
the “non-transferability of sterling” keeps
up the high prices of British goods to
European importers. Not only do the
Americans resent this condition as
stifling international trade, but they are
bucking ,at subsidising it any further, as
bound to collapse anyhow.
The way out, the Americans suggest—
to the indignation of the Socialists—is to
reduce British prices by lowering costs
ot production until sterling-holders
abroad genuinely seek exchange trade
within the sterling area. Hence the
American pressure on Britain to reduce
costs, for it is American dollar aid which
has been protecting the British post-war
economic system, including, as Congress
and the American Press no longer re-
strain themselves from saying, the “great
Socialistic experiment,” of which, accord-
ing to Mr. Attlee’s late publicity officer.
“the consequences, if it fails, can be
measureless.”
Mr. “Manny” Shinwell, who made a.
mess of coal and is now Mr. Attlee’s
Secretary for War, started the latest
Anglo-American recriminations by saying
something about transatlantic twisting
of the lion’s tail. The Socialist lion then
rose with a Shinwell roar. To which the
“Wall-street Journal” retorted:
First in the minds of the British negotia-
tors at Washington is a continuation in
office of the present British Government
If Anglo-American co-operation has to be
sacrificed to their ambition to continue in
power, the sacrifice will be made. _ What
really is threatened with collapse is not
Britain, but the Socialist structure which is
misusing the great intelligence of the British
nation.
The New York “Journal of Com-
merce,” also replying to Mr, Shinwell,
said that “among things England should
be doing to help herself are the prompt
devaluation of the pound and a
moratorium on further social experi-
ments” ; and Congress heard a Missouri
Republican Senator declaring straight-
out that “the#United States should re-
quire Britain to abandon her wasteful
experiment in Socialism.” These cannot
be called intrusions upon the dollar-crisis
debate when the London “Times” had
already declared, in response to Mr.
Hoffman’s warning, the need for “a sub-
stantial reduction of Government expen-
diture as an earnest of a more realistic
policy,” and the chairman of the Federa-
tion of British Industries had blamed the
vast increase in State expenditure for the
present inflationary trend, as reflected
in high costs of production.
To these objectionable social experi-
ments the Chifley Government is also
committed. They serve, along with the
dollar shortage, to put this country under
its Socialist masters in the same boat with
Cripps’s Britain. They are expressed
not only in Government extravagance,
continuing and unrepentant, but also in
excessive demands and strikes among
trade-unions for higher wages and shorter
hours —a natural reaction to the Socialist
policy in administration of the State,
The Americans, dispensing dollars and
under pressure to dispense more, can be
forgiven if they regard the recent dock
and railway strikes in Britain, and the
coal and port stoppages in Australia, as
wanton playing the fool by nations
ostensibly reconstructing their economy
from war setbacks, and pretending to
have established prosperity on Socialism
and go-slow on the job, yet confessing
both that they must have more dollars to
succeed and their inability to earn them.
The radical trouble with both these
Socialist outfits is that their punitive taxa-
tion has antagonised their people, em-
ployees and employers alike, against
harder work. Where even the Socialist
leaders’ supporters in the trade-unions
will not respond with their best efforts
for the good of the cause, how can em-
ployers be expected to assent to an order
which, still experimental, would fasten
upon them remorseless tax levies, ever-
increasing controls and restrictions, and
more and more socialisation to the end
of blotting them out altogether? Mr.
Chifley is on record, from the late
Premiers’-conference debates, as holding
that a citizen is not entitled to the
fruits of his enterprise—that the Govern-
ment has a right to the lot, and leaves
him anything at all only as an act of
grace. He said that of £lB,OOO by
a citizen (one of those taxed at 18s, 6d.
in the £) for the building of a hospital
wing had, in effect, not come from that
citizen at all, but from the Government,
which had to allow him a rebate on his
assessment for that amount.
That is the sort of thing calculated to
rile any victim of such a system, and,
since the American taxpayer is, indirectly,
supporting these Socialist cranks in
Britain, it riles him, too.
Red Balkan Objective.
The Balkans have always been a focus
of dissension in modem Europe, the part
of the Continent in which wars are
brewed and wars sometimes end.
World War I was born there, and for
all practical purposes began to end
there. War II was generated on the
fringes of the region, and might have
been over earlier, with a better state of
Europe today, if the Churchill plan for
the invasion of the Continent’s “soft
under-belly” through this area had been
carried out.
It is a platitude to say that the seeds
of war are sprouting in the Balkans at
the moment. The most arresting ques-
tion is: “What war?”
It may, as appears on the surface, be a
war on Tito by the Soviet Union; or it
may be a war very much more far-reach-
ing in which what is now happening is a
mere manoeuvre for position, with the
supposed victim of Russian bullying
himself a partner in the proposed aggres-
sion. Tito is a former Red Army officer,
and all his training has been under the
tutelage and orders of the Kremlin.
The situation which now occupies the
attention of the world developed sud-
denly on June 28, 1948. Up to that
moment Tito had been the darling of
the Communist world. His Partisans,
who supposedly had held up more
troops than Alexander’s might in Italy,
had been lauded on every Communist
platform throughout the world, and con-
sequently were accepted at face-value by
almost every daily newspaper. The fact
that he “accidentally” butchered British
officers—and, as late as 1946, U.S. fliers —
sent to succor him and gave only a re-
gretful shrug when his mistake was
pointed out was regarded merely as an
emanation of his patriotic fierceness and
zeal for the Allied cause. His vicious
“people’s trials” of his enemies, his mur-
der of Mihailovich, the Serb patriot who
had stuck to the Allies through thick and
thin, were only a little harder to swallow.
When he stole the materials sent for
U.N.R.R.A relief and used them
for military purposes a blind eye
was cast on his peccadilloes. His
religious persecutions went unchecked;
his attempts to secure Trieste by dis-
plays of force were accepted as some-
thing to do with the operatic Balkan
temperament. He was persecuting the
Catholic Church and Croats who did not
agree with his politics right up to the
moment when the representatives of the
Cominform, headed by Malenkov and
Zhdanov, the two highest-ranking Com-
munists of the time in the world next to
Stalin, met in Bucharest —the only Wes-
tern representative being Duclos, of
France —and passed a vitriolic resolution
against Yugoslav leadership and a de-
mand for its liquidation.
The Cominform bull of excommunica-
tion set out that the leaders of
Yugoslavia particularly Tito, and
Rankovitch and Kaidelj, his main
offsiders had “pursued a hateful
policy in relation to the Soviet Union”
and that “an undignified attitude of
underestimation of the Soviet military
specialists” in the country had been per-
mitted, while other Soviet specialists
were “treated with contempt.” The reso-
lution continued:
Soviet specialists have been submitted to
official surveillance and continual watching
by State Security bodies The same sur-
veillance has been enforced over the
Cominform representative (M. Yudin) and
official representatives of the U.S.S.R. All
these facts indicate that the leaders have
taken up a stand unworthy of Communists,
in which they have begun to identify the
policy of the U.S.S.R. with that of the
imperialist Powers and that they treat the
Soviet Union in exactly the same manner
in which they treat the bourgeois States.
Yugoslavia, according to the Cominform
Committee, was committing the awful
crime of accepting as permanent “differ-
ent classes of workers and peasants with
an individual economy, kulaks, traders,
small factory-owners, bourgeoisie, intel-
lectuals, etc.”—in fact, all the classes
which Comrade Sharkey told the Aus-
tralian Communist party in his last con-
gress report that Marxist-Leninism itself
permanently tolerates.
However, in Belgrade, it was suggested
that the Communists had become under-
privileged, their slightest criticisms fol-
lowed by “cruel reprisals,” and it was
laid down that “the shameful terroristic
regime” which permitted such horrors
must not be allowed to continue.
The suggestions of the Press that
the call for the replacement of
the leaders in Belgrade is something
novel is flatly denied by the facts.
In July and August last year, at the
time of the meeting of the Cominform
annual conference, Tito was abused, and
so he is again abused this year and by
the same people—by Anna Pauker, the
Russian Governor-General of Rumania,
who, in August, 1948, “openly called for
the elimination of Tito and his crew” ;
by Rakosi of Hungary ; and by the gal-
lant Hoxha of Albania, the population
of which now seems to consist of equal
parts of Tito agents and Russian tech-
nicians— his view was that the Titoites
were “ignorant Trotskyists.” Also, by
the Cominform itself, again meeting in
Bucharest headed by Voroshilov.
It is noticed that neither at the Zhdanov
Cominform Conference of 1948 nor at
the Voroshilov Cominform Conference of
1949 was anything more than a reform or
change of the Yugoslav leadership and
its viewpoint demanded.
Last year Yugoslav officers were shot
ostensibly making for Rumania ; this year
various inconvenient persons have been
sternly dealt with in the region of Novi-
Sad for “spreading libellous Cominform
propaganda, recruiting citizens for col-
laboration with Hungarian intelligence.”
The Yugoslav Communist party has
passed, as last year, fervent resolutions
that it is Marxist-Leninist to the core,
while avowing the most fervent patriotism
—two things which are completely in-
compatible.
This element and his continued two-
faced appeal to the Western Powers for
help (which some of them are foolishly
giving) lay Tito under considerable sus-
picion, more especially when it is re-
membered that, after his virtual excom-
munication by the Cominform as a leper
and a “deviationist,” he and the
representatives of the Soviet Union
and all its imperial satellites of
Eastern Europe sat down together in
Belgrade, his capital, and, headed by
Vyshinsky, decided to share up the privi-
leges of Danubian navigation as if they
were one large nation. They cheekily
threw overboard the convention agree-
ments of 1921 and excluded the British,
United States and Austrians from present,
and Germany from future, participa-
tion in Danube control. And to
cap all, the Powers which had a month
before excommunicated Tito agreed with-
out a murmur to establish the Danube
commission’s control H.Q. in his terri-
tory!
War may be imminent over Yugoslav
issues. If it is it will not be much pro-
longed and will occur not because of the
intractability of Tito, but because the
outlook of the Yugoslav races is such
that Communism can only be fully estab-
lished among them, as among the little
peoples of Latvia and Estonia, by force
of Red Army occupation.
The Yugoslav leaders, so-called —Tito
is a naturalised Russian with a Red Army
commission—do not matter. What does
matter is the situation which will arise
if the excuse is found to garrison Yugo-
slavia with Russian troops to the
Adriatic ; to get into position, in fact, on
a pretext provided by an artificially-
created situation along the Danube, for
attack on Western Europe.
If war is intended against Yugoslavia by
the Cominform nations it is unlikely that
Yugoslavia is the real objective. The
overrunning of that country by Red
troops would be merely a means to an
end, whether it were achieved with or
without Tito’s connivance.
Lawson's Old Home.
By train and car, by spring-cart and
buggy, an army of storytellers, poets,
literary folk, old friends and lovers of
Lawson threatens to invade Mudgee
(N.S.W.) the day after tomorrow. At
Eurunderee, five miles from Mudgee, on
Friday afternoon Bertha Lawson, widow
of Henry Lawson, will unveil a memorial
at the site of the poet’s boyhood home.
Ail that remain of the home are the fire-
place and chimney.
Eurunderee —-a drowsy hamlet of some
150 people—has a, particular significance
for lovers of Australian literature. It is
something more than the site of one of
Lawson’s boyhood homes. It is the heart
of the Lawson country, a region rich with
associations for those who know their
Lawson. As Tom Mutch once
pointed out: “Again and again Lawson
returns to the scenes of his early days,
and to the people who then impressed
themselves upon his receptive mind.” Joe
Swallow, Trooper Campbell, Peter Mc-
Kenzie and scores of others were taken
straight from life.
Henry Lawson was born on June
17, 1867, in a tent on the Weddin
Mountains, a mile out of the pre-
sent town of Grenfell (N.S.W.), and,
as Henry once said, “within spitting dis-
tance of a shaft my father had sunk for
gold.” Known as the One Mile, the spot
is now marked by an obelisk. Henry’s
father, Norwegian-born Peter Hertzberg
Larsen, had taken his young bride, Louisa
Albury, to Grenfell from their little hut
on the diggings at New Pipeclay—now
called Eurunderee—shortly after their
marriage.
The family did not stay long at Gren-
fell and were soon back at New Pipeclay,
where Peter built on the Home Rule and
Gulgong road “a good two-roomed slab
and-bark hut, with a pine floor and a
kitchen of stringybark poles valued at
thirty pounds, and sank a well.”
For a couple of years they lived in the
slab-and-bark hut —until the ever-restless
husband caught the gold-fever again and
took his family to the Gulgong diggings.
For two unprofitable years he sank shaft
after shaft before retiring defeated to
his home at Eurunderee. There he started
a small store, was postmaster for eight
months, and filled in 24 deep shafts on
his property, which a swarm of tres-
passing miners opened up the next year.
In 1876 —when Henry was nine—Peter
Larsen built the first Eurunderee public
school, and the slab-and-bark hut was
made available to the first schoolteacher,
kindly John Tierney, as a residence.
Peter Larsen built himself “a new sawn-
timber hardwood house, with a galvanised-
iron roof and a brick chimney, which last
was the envy of neighbors who had only
slab-and-clay chimneys.”
This 1876 weatherboard cottage,
screened by trees, was the famous Law-
son home. It appeared in many a Law-
son poem and yam. “Henry built it of
bark and of slabs. He floored it with clay
and with pine. He roofed it with bark
and with shingles and gave it as many
rooms as suited his convenience.” But
it was always the same home —the old
o Continued on page. 7.)


PLAIN ENGLISH
Controls Falling Down.
Another blow at the Commonwealth’s
assertion of obsolete war-time controls
and “transitional” controls was delivered
by Mr. President Morgan, of the S.A.
Industrial Court, last week. Observing
that the High Court had unanimously
held that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment had no constitutional power to use
regulations to deal with consequences of
the war, and that the inflationary condi-
tion in which we all live was not due to
the war, anyway, but to scarcity of man-
power, his Honor ruled out the validity
of Federal regulations denying the right
of employers to pay more than award
wages, and thereby “gave the coup de
grdce to my constant companion for
seven years.” The motion to declare the
Federal Government’s regulations illegal
came from the union concerned —the
Federated Clerks.
The Federal Government at first pro-
posed to appeal against this decision, but
later changed its mind when it was
learned that another union, the Muni-
cipal Employees, had issued a writ out
of the High Court asking that the rele-
vant section of the Economic Regulations
be declared invalid. Dr. Evatt’s depart-
ment will now chance its luck in that
appeal.
On the petrol-rationing question the
Victorian Government has gone all round
the compass. Till the beginning of last
week it had an open mind. On the Mon-
day its Attorney-General expressed
serious doubts about the legality of
transferring powers to the Federal Gov-
ernment. On Tuesday he said roundly
that Dr. Evatt was entirely wrong about
transfer of State powers to the Com-
monwealth for a limited period only, and
no such transfer could be anything but
permanent. On Thursday his chief
stated that “reintroduction of petrol-
rationing is almost certain,” and that his
Government would probably refer
power to the Federal Government under
legislation which would preserve the
sovereign rights of States. On Saturday
this was declared objectionable and
changed to a scheme for State legislation
to validate the Commonwealth’s former
rationing powers.
In any case, the Victorian deci-
sion about petrol had not been settled by
Cabinet and party meeting by the time
this page went to press. Probably S.A.
will also be consulted. The other States
have previously refused to look at State
control of so unpopular a measure. They
were later represented as swinging away
from that attitude, Chifley, it is said, had
frightened them with petrol - famine
stories.
In the middle of the Victorian
Ministry’s shall-I?-shan’t-I? picking at
the petals on this daisy a Melbourne
magistrate ruled that State meat price-
fixing was invalid because of a defeat in
the legalising of previous Common-
wealth price-control. The magistrate
said, in effect, that the horse was already
dead when the State Government pur-
ported to take it into its own stable.
Now Queensland bread manufacturers
have taken up a case in Coolangatta and
challenged the State’s price-fixing power
as invalid under Section 92 of the Federal
Constitution. Socialist bureaucracy
generally seems to be in for it.
Keep Wool Free.
The imminence of the Federal election
has made the Chifley Government
sensitive about some things, so it
has had nothing to say about wool-
marketing after J.O. goes out of busi-
ness around next June. But feelers have
come out of Canberra concerning a
notion that the Government should take
over wool on the same lines it used for
socialising the marketing of wheat.
Graziers don’t want it.
Canberra alleges that some bodies
“independent of the graziers” oppose the
graziers’ idea of taking over themselves,
and, without naming them, claims that
these “bodies” instance the success of
Bawra and J.O. as arguments for Gov-
ernment control. Both were created to
handle war-time wool surpluses; how
they would manage in peace-time market-
ing is another matter.
Anyhow, a graziers’ deputation saw
Minister for Commerce Pollard in Mel-
bourne and asked about the chances
of Government financial assistance
in capitalising their own scheme. No
direct reply by Pollard is reported, but
it was stated that “in some Government
quarters the view is held that the graziers
should be in a position to capitalise their
own scheme.” They could if they were
able to get hold of that £l7 million of
theirs from war-time wool profits which
the Government is holding, ostensibly, in
Mr. Chifley’s words, “to promote the
efficiency of wool-growing and stimulate
consumption.”
When J.O. winds up there’ll probably
be upwards of £6O million due to the
growers. That’s pretty close to a pre-
war national wool cheque for a year,
Canberra hints that if the graziers want
to run a marketing scheme there’d be
enough capital in that to finance it. But
even if it is'whacked up among the
growers next year or the year after, the
individual sums will be reduced by taxa-
tion and other costs.
A wool-marketing scheme in conjunc-
tion with South Africa and New Zea-
land is doubtless a desirable thing, but
it ought to be a grower-controlled show.
If growers want an example of what can
happen under Canberra control let them
study wheat “stabilisation” and the way
the wheatgrowers have been caught by
the International Wheat Agreement.
Once Canberra gets control of anything
that somebody else produces it assumes
that it, and not the producer, is the real
owner and can use the commodity as it
chooses —even for political purposes.
WASHINGTON X-RAY.
“I strongly recommend a change of treatment, John.”
Papuan Oil Rumors.
“Lemon”; Port Moresby is living up to
its reputation for furphies. Gone are the
days when certain novelists found it
profitable to dispense free drinks in the
shack known as the “Papua Hotel” and
to print the resulting tales of adventure
in their books ; but one can still obtain
scintillating and completely unreliable in-
formation as to gold, platinum and what-
not deposits, precious stones and the
history and location of innumerable oil-
gushers which have been shut in and
abandoned at the behest of wicked
petroleum barons.
In May, 1947, an oil-strike at Kariava
was vouched for in the bars of both the
“top” and “bottom” pubs and became
front-page news in the Sydney and Mel-
bourne papers in spite of immediate and
categorical denials by the only company
drilling. Actually, there had been a small
show of gas in the well, which meant
little, and someone had observed “colors
of oil in the drilling-mud, which meant
less, but they were sufficient to cause a
minor boom in the shares of the cos. con-
cerned and the dormant Papuan oil com-
panies.
Quite recently a gas-show at Oroi
of which the drillers were glad to see
the last caused a minor flutter in share
prices, and then the arrival of additional
equipment at Port Moresby (evidence,
certainly, of the ultimate hopes of the
drillers) was embellished in both of
the bars there and reached the Sydney
Press as a statement that oil has been
struck, although the same papers had pub-
lished the news of the purchase of the
equipment some months previously the
drilling co. failed to notice the stuff
coming up through the casing!
From Melbourne last week more re-
liable news was forthcoming: the drilling
co. announced that cores at a depth ot
2323ft. at Hohoro had revealed a small
oil-content. But investors were warned
that the significance of this should not be
overemphasised.
The Poets Have Fled.
About the end of July Lord Wavell, who
seems to be a survival of the days when
soldiers were poets, took it upon himself
to tell the London Library committee that
he didn’t like modem poetry and its cult
of unlimited “realism,” and inferred that
if the British people were to have
Socialism they could not expect to have
poetry with it.
If we are to become a nation of petty
bourgeoisie, and robots ruled by bureau-
crats, we shall have no true poetry in
England Today nearly all effort is
aimed at the production of drab leisure
and rather ignoble comfort, and timid
security from the cradle to the grave.
As true of Australia as it is of England,
and since there has been a lot of skiting
lately about Australian literature there
ought to be some concern about the direc-
tion it is taking. In other days Australians
quoted their poets; they still quote the
poets of other days ; but how many can
quote a line from a contemporary poet?
A book of rare quality, written by an
Australian about Australia, called The
Pea Pickers, was published about five
years ago. Deplorably few Australians
have read it, and of that few fewer still
understood it or recognised its quality.
It is a story of an adolescent with
the heart of a poet, and, writing it, Eve
Langley poured out the passion and the
hunger that stirs the lover of Australia.
As some young people do now, she looked
upon the world in her time and didn’t like
it. Like Wavell, she missed the poets:
“That’s the reason for all the madness
and confusion. The world is here but the
poets have fled,” Or, she might have
added, have joined the public service or
are writing advertisements, being no
longer short of a meal or walking in the
ways of danger.
For Australia, as distinct from Eng-
land, one menace to literature is the con-
centration of population into packed cities
which become more and more divorced
from the land. Our poets for the most
part, and poetry means art, no longer
have their feet on the land. They walk
on concrete, travel in trams, cannot
see the stars because of the tall buildings
or the electric glare. The rain is some-
thing to take cover from, wet feet must
be avoided: even when the good Aus-
tralian sun shines they must wear tinted
glasses, and suburban life means suburban
“respectability.” So they go slumming,
and verse and story and picture are about
bugs—human and insect —in Surry Hills
or Fitzroy.
Wavell doesn’t believe that the spirit
of adventure and fantasy in the English-
man is destroyed. We may believe the
same thing about Australians, and that
sooner or later people and poets will
throw off this lethargy of “security” and
be something more than robots again. If
we don’t believe it, and pray for it, and
work for it, we might as well be dead
physically as well as culturally.


¥/
cravbka
sole
Sr
''.M.
/ auMaMT K ! rSm
KSJ/-5W j
V-
✓ 4
J
GBBOE/R
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS' REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
selection home—in which, as Tom Mutch
told the Royal Australian Historical
Society, Henry, “from his bed, with
straining ears, listened through the
cracks in the slabs to the tales
told around the table.” It was
the scene of so much that is the
best of Lawson that even the fireplace
and chimney are a shrine as hallowed as
are the old homes of Gordon and Ken-
dall.
It is the home to which the tired father
returned at night with clay-stained mole-
skins, where waited the drover’s wife,
where passed the wool-teams “rolling like
ships in a gale,” where friends and
neighbors called to sing “The Songs We
Used to Sing”—the home of “The Shake-
down on the Floor” and “A Child in the
Dark and a Foreign Father.”
W. E. FITZ HENRY
POLITICAL POINTS
The Canberra Circus will reopen next
week for the brief season that is to round
off the lamentable run of the Eighteenth
Parliament. The Nineteenth will be a
Bigger and Better show. Redistribution
guarantees that it will be bigger; better
it must be, since it could not possibly be
worse than the one it will follow.
Reports of successful tours by Menzies
and Fadden have apparently had the
effect of prising Chifley from his well-
beaten Canberra-Sydney-Bathurst track.
Last week he made a quick hello-goodbye
trip to Adelaide and Perth, something in
the nature of a pre-election recce. The
big tour is yet to come with Abe Lincoln
minus whiskers giving a repeat perform-
ance of his 1946 turn —no promises, no
bribes ; just judge us on performances. It
worked last time, but even Chifley him-
self must be beginning to doubt whether
it can do the trick again.
The Long Bay boarders are in circula-
tion again, having purged their contempt
of the Arbitration Court to the satis-
faction of two of the Judges, though not
to that of Mr. Justice Dunphy, who,
accepting the plea of Grant, said of the
others that he was unable to agree that
they should be released at present. In
the course of the hearing he remarked to
counsel for one of the prisoners:
You cannot expect us to believe that
these applications are absolutely sincere
just because the money has been paid into
court. They failed in their purpose; they
played a game and lost it. Now they want
to get themselves out of bother.
In effect, the court has given Idris Wil-
liams and Co. the benefit of the doubt.
Whether they deserved it or not can only
be decided by their future actions. Com-
munists do not usually consider them-
selves bound by promises given to anyone
outside the Red net, and it is their avowed
policy and that of the unions they control
to smash the Arbitration system. Mc-
Phillips, of course, had previously been
in jail for contempt of a different order.
A test on the sincerity of the released
union-officials will be the steps they take
or don’t take to curb petty stoppages in
the mines. Time and again Miners’
Federation leaders have undertaken to
enforce discipline within their union, but
never a thing have they done about it.
Now, more than ever before, an unin-
terrupted flow of coal is needed to make
good the losses to the community caused
by the strike. Unless these criminally-
foolish stoppages cease, Australia can pre-
pare right now for a Black Christmas.
Defending his leader against criticism
of the Blair Athol set-up, Acting-Premier
Gair told Queensland Parliament that the
“overall problem becomes one of vast
capital expenditure.” Exactly ; and what
Queenslanders want to know is: Was the
English Electric Supply Corporation,
which proposed to spend £lB million on
Blair Athol, scared off when it discovered
that not the A.W.U. but the Communist-
run Miners’ Federation was to have
control of the work?
A.C.T.U. secretary Monk holds out as
an inducement to the A.W.U. to join his
outfit the thought that its membership of
140,000 would entitle the A.W.U. to send
56 delegates to A.C.T.U. congresses.
A.W.U. leaders don’t seem very much im-
pressed with the dubious benefits such
a move would bring in return for the sub-
stantial amount of dough affiliation would
cost them. They probably feel that 56
votes at congress are not of much value
when, as has been shown time and time
again, individual unions flout A.C.T.U.
decisions at will and often play their own
hand in industrial disputes without refer-
ence to the council. Nor can they have
been impressed by the recent spectacle
of Clarey and Monk rushing hither and
thither trying to arrange a strike settle-
ment which would save the faces of the
miners’ Red leaders,
Bathurst has bestowed on the Prime
Minister the freedom of the city. Will he
reciprocate and return to Australians the
freedom of Australia?
Dedman had a rough time at a public
meeting in Mackay (N.Q.) when he told his
audience that if the Government took any
further steps to “alter the banking system”
it might hold a referendum on the ques-
tion. What Press reports described as
“unmerciful heckling” frequently drowned
his voice. Next day Chifley told a Perth
audience he had no such intention.
Dedman got only raspberries when he
switched to the subject of Communism,
saying that “Communism is on the rim
because ‘Labor’ has created conditions
in which Communism cannot thrive.”
An economic committee of Britain’s
Trade-union Congress has discovered
that the only way to get better living
standards is to work harder. It will
tell congress that profits cannot be taxed
much more without destroying enterprise,
that money for social services, defence
and other national expenses cannot be
raised solely by taxing the rich, and that
if trade-union demands for higher wages
are not restrained unionists will be guilty
of wrecking all hopes of full employment.
These are home truths which Socialists
in Britain, as in Australia, have always
refused to accept from the lips of their
critics. They now face the formidable
task of convincing their followers that
the unpalatable truths must be accepted.
The job is made harder by the fact that
the admission is a confession that all these
years they have been leading the workers
up the garden path towards a paradise
where money allegedly grew on trees.
They are now at the end of the path;
the trees are stripped, and all they can
offer the worker is a spade and the word
“Dig.”
When white-ants ate through the
wooden cross-arm of a transmission pole
carrying 66,000-volt cables, the collapse
blacked-out towns between Bendigo and
Melbourne. There is no truth in the
rumor that the Communists are approach-
ing the white-ant queen with a proposi-
tion.
T. V. Marsom, the Footscray butcher
whose prosecution for overcharging for
lamb has brought price-control tumbling
in ruins in Victoria, put it in a nutshell.
He said that the effect of fixed prices was
to put the bad butcher on the same level
as the good one. The bad butcher
charges the maximum figure and the good
one can’t charge any more. With control
off the general public will be able to
gauge quality by price and can change
their butcher if they don’t like him. Far
from keeping prices down, he said, control
was keeping them up. The same applies
all round, and the Footscray judgment
affects over 1000 items.
“Karuah”: The kind of New State that
Cal well is advocating (B. 10/8/’49) is
not the kind that is likely to suit the
Murray Valley people or New Eng-
landers. Arthur’s idea of a New State is
a State with delegated powers; that is, a
State that may legislate on anything it
wishes provided that Canberra approves.
For years country people have been
hoodwinked with this 30-province idea.
These provinces, the people are told, may
legislate on any matter that the Central
Government delegates to them. The
catch is that delegated powers may be
taken away just as easily as they are
given. Local self-government is a fallacy
if the powers of the local authority may
be removed at will by the central adminis-
tration. The aim of those who advocate
such a scheme is not to set up new
States, but to destroy those which already
exist.
Chifley’s latest on petrol-rationing is
that he desires it to be reintroduced as a
temporary measure; he gives two or
three years as an estimate. But, hang it
all, rationing was brought in as a tempo-
rary measure in the first place, yet he
tried to hang on to it for good!
An onlooker’s judgment is that petrol-
rationing should be as dead as the dodo.
The McGirr attitude is that he’ll accept it
if the other States agree, but that Canberra
must take the responsibility of running it.
Hollway seems to think it is necessary,
and if his Cabinet agrees with him he
will ask McGirr to call a conference “so
soon as the other States make up their
minds.”
In a letter to Beale, M.H.R., the Prime
Minister admits that uncollected income
tax at the end of June totalled £55,884,126,
adding that “for the most part” delays
in issuing assessments were due to tax-
payers not lodging returns promptly.
That was hardly necessary, since every-
body knows the tax people couldn’t pos-
sibly be to blame. Government depart-
ments never cause delays.
Profound observation on the dollar
crisis attributed by Sydney “D.T.” to the
U.S. Secretary to the Treasury, and
printed in thick black type:
To increase the price of 35 dollars an
ounce which the U.S. Government paid for
gold would devalue the dollar in terms of
gold.
Marvellous! Any day now we may ex-
pect to read that to increase the price of
beer in terms of the two-bob piece would
mean that 2s. would not buy as much
beer as it used to.
About six weeks ago Clive Evatt sug-
gested that the N. S. Wales Government
should compulsorily acquire Marx House
to provide office accommodation for his
Housing Commission. The proposal was
turned down after McGirr’s Advisory
Building Committee had reported that
such action would disturb many tenants
not associated with the Communist party.
Now it appears that a Federal authority
has reported —perhaps it was discovered
during the security raid on the joint—
that the only occupants of Marx House
besides the Moscow party itself are
Current Book Distributors and the
People’s Publishing Co. —both of ’em off-
shoots of the party. What Clive should
ask for now is a report on the Advisory
Building Committee.
The Communists are complaining about
building materials being used to con-
struct huts for Balts while the housing
programme is behind schedule. Their
real complaint, of course, is that the
Balts, through bitter experience, have be-
come resistant to Communist poison, but,
posing as ever as the champions of the
unfortunate, the Comrades are weeping
crocodile tears over the plight of homeless
Australians. They have nothing to say
about the effect on the housing pro-
gramme of the Red-inspired coal strike.
Official estimate of the cost in lost pro-
duction is between 6000 and 8000 homes.
Earlier in the year the Federal Govern-
ment passed an Act which had the effect
of forbidding shipping companies to buy
or build a ship outside Australia. Last
week the Federal Government placed an
order for the first of three new whale-
chasers for its about-to-be-established
whaling-industry. The order went to a
Glasgow shipyard.
Silliest decision of the year was reached
by the Australian Primary Producers’
Union, which claims 51,000 members. At
the first annual conference of the N.S.W.
division, which claims 9000 of them, it
was decided that farmers should strike if
they thought it necessary and to seek
registration as an industrial organisation
with the Arbitration Court. There’ll be
a falling-away of the 51,000 members.
The British Government has ordered
cuts of 5 p.c. in the prices of most foot-
wear, clothing and household textile
goods. It ignored the protests of makers
and retailers, who are to share the loss
between them. Whether they can expect
a 5 p.c. cut in income- and profits-taxes
depends on nothing in particular, since
Socialism must march on its ruinous way
regardless of the laws of economic* or
commonsense.
Has politics ruined the conversational
powers of the Australian? After the
N.S.W. rains last week an apparently
anguished message was published in
“S. M. Herald,” which read: “Katoomba:
Nothing to talk about; just steady, soak-
ing rain.”
It is no use British Socialists trying to
disown Konni Zilliacus, even though they
have expelled him from the party. The
Attlees and Crippses are Fabian Socialists,
and Bernard Shaw, G.O.M. of Fabianism,
has given Zilliacus his approval thus:
The issue is clear between Jingo Trades-
unionism (Bevinism) and a Democratic
Socialism on Fabian lines of which you
ar'e by far the most instructed champion
A question Fabians and non-Fabians
would like answered is from what source
Zilliacus gets his instructions.
Land-sales control will cease in New
South Wales on September 20. That is
to say, the Act will cease to operate;
effective control disappeared long ago.
Dr. Evatt, burbling about “full em-
ployment,” alleged that the “U.S. re-
cession” might cause a “chain-reaction of
unemployment,” and got this off:
Side by side with full employment in
countries such as Britain, Australia and
New Zealand, we have mass unemployment
and unused resources in some parts of the
world.
The three countries named, of course,
are run by Dr. Evatt’s political per-
suasion, the Labor-Socialists. In all three
there has been “mass unemployment,”
loss and misery through strikes in the
past few months, but Dr. Evatt didn’t
mention that.
The Director of Regional Development
with the Post-war Reconstruction De-
partment has changed his job and suffered
demotion thereby. He is now merely
Director of Northern Territory Affairs.
The Industrial Commission of N.S.W.
reserved its decision in the case in which
Newcastle City Council was called upon
to show cause why A. E. Doberer, its
former power superintendent, shouldn’t
be reinstated, Doberer having been sus-
pended because he refused to join a union
on religious grounds.
In 1947 J. E. D. Hall, in Labor's First
Year, voiced the opinion that Conserva-
tive back-bench speakers were too light
in their touch to be effective as critics.
He admitted a couple of exceptions—
Peter Thorneycroft and David Eccles.
Last month Eccles burst out in a manner
which justified Hall’s mention. Attack-
ing the Government on the crippling
rate of income tax —the standard rate is
9s. 6d. in the £ —he said:
The Conservative party utterly refuses to
accept this kind of penal servitude as part
of the British way of life. The time has
come to move in on the Socialist spend-
thrifts who, left alone, will never economise
and never cut taxation.
The Socialist spendthrifts in Australia
have cut taxation, but they would never
have done it if left alone.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS.”
“Nota Bene”; No doubt the troops did
a grand job in the opencuts. I’m not
disputing that. My grouch is against a
Press photograph captioned “Army cooks
preparing a meal for troops; a picture
that had many replicas in Array camps
during the war.” No fear it didn’t. Who
ever saw a corporal peeling spuds? Or
a cook wearing a white cap? Or, for
that matter, any soldier standing up to
peel spuds? It could happen, but only
if the corporal had no private available,
the cook was expecting a visit from
brasshats, and/or both were posing for
a newspaper picture.
* ♦ * ♦
“Dhas”; Whether or not the Premiers’
conference has done any harm by refus-
ing to face the problem of censorship
remains to be seen. Things have been
left precisely as they were, and prose-
cutions and even jailings of authors may
still occur. Mr. Clive Evatt, no doubt
having Robert Close and Rosaleen Norton
in mind, seemed to think that only in
Victoria were writers and artists menaced
by the State; but there have also been
prosecutions in Adelaide; and wasn’t it
New South Wales which banned the play
“Rusty Bugles” (shortly to be staged in
London) and prosecuted the publishers of
We Were the Rats? I suppose we can
take the Appeal Court’s modification of
the penalty on Close and the magistrate’s
sensible dismissal of the charge against
Rosaleen Norton as signs that the law is
taking a more liberal and up-to-date
line; and it is better for the Common-
wealth to do nothing than to impose an
official and general censorship. But the
plan suggested on the Red Page at the
time of the Close affair —that, before a
prosecution is launched, the work in
question should be submitted to a board
of literary men, whose opinion could be
quoted as expert evidence —still seems
the only safe way of protecting the author
against the policeman who thinks Byron
may have been on Lord Mountbatten’s
staff,
“X.S.”: The Crown failed to establish
its charge that Rosaleen Norton’s pic-
tures, exhibited at the Melbourne Uni-
versity, were obscene, and the court dis-
charged the case, with costs against the
police. Now the lady has chosen for a
more central place to hold an exhibition
of her witchcraft studies. It should
attract more “art-lovers” than any show
this season. The police action was prob-
ably due to simple ignorance ; one would
hardly expect the Force to have a know-
ledge of the history of demonology, of
witches’ sabbaths, the Black Mass and
so forth. If it had it could have explored
the bookshelves in the library in which
Miss Norton held her exhibition. There
it might have found plenty of photo-
graphs of carvings on medieval churches
and cathedrals with precisely the same
subject-matter.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”: One of the hoariest super-
stitions in the mercantile marine reared
its head when the freighter Time struck
the Corsair Reef, just inside the Rip, It
was Wordsworth who started the tradition
and Coleridge who gave it world import-
ance. The two poets projected a joint
book in which Wordsworth was to supply
verses on commonplace subjects and
Coleridge on supernatural elements. It
was Wordsworth who supplied the super-
natural touch, however. He had read
George Shelvocke’s Voyage, published in
1726, and it gave him the idea of a
ship’s crew obsessed by the superstitious
dread of divine vengeance because of the
killing of a member of the family Dio-
medeidce. The most supernatural feature
of the story was that one of the crew
brought the bird down in full flight with
a crossbow. Coleridge’s deathless verses
have acquainted every schoolboy with
what happened to the Ancient Mariner on
that occasion. Well, a member of the
Time’s crew told an “Age” reporter that
the day before the vessel struck the reef,
which has been the graveyard of many
fine ships, including the P. and O. liner
Australia, an albatross hit the deck and
was heaved overboard with such remarks
from the awed matlows as “Mark my
words, there’ll be bad luck this voyage!”
One hesitates to suggest that possibly the
reporter was having his leg pulled in
traditional sailor fashion.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The reaction against the
word “comrade” (B. 17/8/ ’49) recalls
its early appearance in the columns of
Melbourne “Argus.” When the Russian
“Hold it a Utile longer—you can relax soon.”
Revolution was young that journal daily
reported from its London cables the
apparition of lawless tribes of toyarisches
looting, murdering and burning in places
as remote from one another as the Crimea
and Vladivostok and Russian Turkestan
and Archangel. For some months the
Russian empire seemed to be a clotted
mass of tovarisches ; Moscow and Petro-
grad seemed to be entirely populated by
them. Then somebody must have found
out that “tovarisch” is Russian for
“comrade,” and the word magically
vanished from the “Argus” columns.
* * * ♦
“Clooter”: Jail the drunken driver, fine
the slow crown-hugger, maledictions on
the flash cutter-in and vermin in the bed
of the wild motor-cyclist who speeds
through the streets at midnight with his
cut-out open: but these and flaming pitch-
forks and ten thousand twin-boils on the
back of the neck of the motorist who,
after he has bought and paid for his
petrol at the bowser, leans confidentiafly
on the bonnet of his car and discusses life
in general with the attendant while I and
those behind me sit behind our idling
engines and fume impatiently. 1 en-
counter these bowser blabber-mouths
almost every day. With a fine disregard
of the attendant’s anxiety and the con-
centrated hatred streaming towards them
from those behind they babble on. I
even struck one who, after assuring the
bowser-man of something, went to his
car, searched it thoroughly from radiator
to tail-light, repeated the process, said
something to the attendant, then came
to where I sat waiting and asked casu-
ally, “Y’ ain’t got yesterdee’s ‘Sun,’ have
y’, mate? Want t’ show the bloke there
a gallop Gallstones run over five Tuesdee
mornin’. He looks like takin’ out the
Flyin’ Sat’dee an’ I want” But I
shot into reverse, backed out and sped
to the next petrol-station—only to meet
his twin in full oratory there.
* * * *
“Spare Corp”; The New York taxi-
man (ex-paratrooper) who parachuted
from a plane on to one of the chimney-
pots of the big city and cheerfully paid
his fine has my sympathy in his explana-
tion that he felt an overpowering yearn-
ing for another drop from the clouds.
After intensive wangling and a brief pre-
paration I did a jump ; and although I
longed to crawl out of the engagement
when the time came, a desire to have an-
other go has yearned back into me from
time to time. After a plane-jump with
heart in your boots there is a reaction
of elation as the parachute catches the
air and passes to the body a sense of
buoyancy and conquest. In that future
world when every person will learn his
para-jumping in childhood as children
today are taught swimming, the greatest
number of traffic offenders may be
air-joyjumpers. Most of the offenders
will be the ones who were most scared
about their first leaps.
* * * *
“Restless Rodwell”: “Helldud’s”
hardened topers (B. 17/8/’49) and their
favorite blends left me unmoved, but I
can feel for the teetotal truck-driver who
drifted into dreamland on a snort of anti-
freeze. I’ll recall to my dying schooner
the lethal brew on tap at Cebu (Philip-
pines) on VI Day. It brought me 10 days
in the U.S. field hospital,’after which I
leamt that the brew was composed of
fermented tuber-juice, wood-alcohol
and anti-freeze pillaged from Army
stores. On discharge I found that all
patients evincing a keen desire to con-
verse with inanimate objects, or seeing
green wombats and striped pretzels, were
admitted to the middle ward of the wing
I had occupied. After observation they
were sent to the left or right ward de-
pehding on whether they were troppo or
plonko. I have brooded darkly ever since.
I spent the whole time in the middle
ward ; the medicos couldn’t make up their
minds about me.
“Bo”: So far as its own inventiveness
is concerned, Tin Pan Alley seems to
have folded up. “Hit” tunes now mostly
comprise lugubrious versions of old-time
ballads and “populars,” the groaners who
yawp them over the ether completing the
massacre. “Arrangers” once found a
bonanza in the slow movements of works
by Chopin, Tschaikowsky and Mozart,
but they seem to have become too apa-
thetic even to go on filching from that
almost inexhaustible source. A slight
alteration of rhythm and tempo to an
old tear-jerker which any halfwit could
manage in an hour, plus the addition of
as revoltingly sentimental a set of words
as can be devised, is a surefire winner
and the fountainhead of record-royalties
and other lush rake-offs. The cheerful
lilt, or the straightout nonsense such as
made a thing like “Yes, We Have No
Bananas” a veritable goldmine for its
“composer,” are now frowned upon. Ob-
viously the things now being churned out
from old material have been devised so
as to fit in with the hopeless-dawn voices
of the “ace” groaners. I await with no
little interest the outcome —it must come
—of Tin Pan Alley’s efforts to lugubrify
to an even greater degree “The Prisoners’
Song.” If that concoction ever tops a
“hit parade” there should follow a fine
crop of suicides among radio audiences.
# * * *
“Helldud”: Back in 1907, when the
chalet at Kosciusko was being built, Hugh
D. Mclntosh, then lessee of the Creel,
imported from Switzerland a magnificent
four-seater toboggan. It was delivered
to the chalet, where the foreman
locked it away for safety. On the following
weekend, during the foreman’s absence
in Jindabyne, there was a heavy fall
of snow. The temptation was irresistible.
Crack went the lock ; out came Hughie’s
toboggan. Then, selecting an extra-steep
slope behind the chalet, we hauled her up
and got aboard. The descent was breath-
taking ; we just flew down the run, and
the lads were yelling like maniacs when
we rammed an outsize snow-covered
boulder. The crew soared like sky-
rockets and the toboggan was reduced
to a heap of splintered wood and leather.
For a spell there was consternation ; then
all hands pushed snouts and flippers into
the snow and recovered every discoverable
particle of the ill-fated toboggan. Before
the return of the foreman four joiners
a french-polisher, plus a nipper to keep
the gluepot hot, had reassembled the
wreckage so expertly that Hugh D., on
his next visit, found nothing amiss when
he passed his hands in admiration over
the restoration. I don’t know how the
toboggan behaved on its first official run,
but I admit having steered it to destruc-
tion, helped repair it, and unlocked the
door for Hughie when he came to in-
spect it.
* * *
“Bethune”; Leigh Creek coal (B.
24/8/’49) wasn’t the only instance of the
interest of old-time Port Augustans in the
mineral wealth of the far north of their
State. There were the ruby-mines which
for a while promised to make the syndi-
cates which worked them richer than the
Aga Khan. The red stones came from
somewhere up Alice Springs way, and at
one time there were bags and bags of
them arriving in Port Augusta. As far
as I can make out they were rubies all
right as far as chemical composition went,
but they couldn’t take cutting and polish-
ing. As a kid I remember filling jamtins
with them from the spot where a dis-
illusioned ruby-billionaire had jettisoned
his hoard in the roadway. I’ve a mind to
go back to see if there are any left. After
all, Leigh Creek came good after 50
years; why not the rubies?
♦ * * *
“Spoon”: A friend tells me that he has
some neighbors who have been raising
their kiddies successfully by heeding
recognised authorities on child-upbring-
ing. “That psychology stuff might be all
right with humans,” said my friend, and
went on to tell me that his neighbors’
cat had recently mauled a bird. The
corpse was thrust under the cat’s nose
and, in accordance with Hoyle, the
animal was slapped hard, once. Then,
six hours later, at the cat’s tea-time, he
was presented with three feathers on his
plate. The neighbors are confident that
the cat is cured of his vice; my friend
is not so sure.
* * * #
“Chasm”: The old Toll House and
gates at Glen Osmond, near Adelaide, are
to be repaired and put into working order
—not for tolls, but for historical interest.
Constructed in the 1840’s, the gates were
controlled by trustees, and the toll-money
was used for repairing the road through
the Adelaide hills, then privately-owned.
Some of the charges were:
For every coach, chariot, chaise, gig,
hearse, caravan or other carriage, and
every cart, wagon, dray or other
vehicle if drawn by one horse or two
bullocks .. Is.
For every such carriage or vehicle drawn
by one pony, ass or mule not exceeding
13 hands high .. .. .. 6d.
Sheep, lambs, calves, hogs, swine or goats
driven, each i<*-
The toll-house was taken over by the
Government in 1844, and the keeper was
Samuel Selby, who had no 40-hour week;
his hours were “from twelve o’clock at
night to twelve of the clock of the next
succeeding night.”
* * * *
“Lackspear”: Unconscious errors (B.
17/8/’49)? The bride of a new house-
owner wrote to a leading emporium in
Melbourne asking it to send a man out
to measure the place for neck-to-knee
carpets.
“Cauboy”: There was one on the
Sundry Shows page (B. 17/ 8/ ’49).
Todd Duhcan was credited with
singing “Moussorgsky’s richly - funny
‘The Sexminarist,’ the story of the
student whose interest is divided between
Latin verbs and a pretty girl-friend. It
should be “seminarist.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: How simple life was in
the old days! You shaved with soap,
cleaned your teeth with powder and,
should you require ointment, bought it in
a jar or small round box made of wood
strips. Then came the lead-foil tube,
and life became full of complications.
Toothpaste, shaving-cream, the wifes
skin-lotion, ointments, etc. —all of em are
put up in tubes that look exactly like any
one of the others. My attempt to shave
with toothpaste, suitably decorated in the
telling, considerably enhanced my, , wi / e l
reputation as a humorist and established
my position as a dill. When, some time
later, I cleaned my teeth with shaving-soap
we both became life-members in our re-
spective spheres. Actually, I perforate
the hat-trick, but quick wit m declaring
that I’d lathered my face with skin-lotion
because of wind-chafe saved me from
further ignominy. But Fate works m
strange ways. If the kids hadn t caught
that childish complaint ... Quick thoug
she was, my torturer was not qmc
enough to deceive me. I detected
tube that she hastily shoved back on tn
shelf while still spluttering over the
wash-basin. And not even such a verbal-
escapologist as my wife can B et ou .
this. After all, you couldn tbe treating
ringworms on your teeth!
DUTCH CARRIAGE.
“The Dutch Army is equipping infantrymen with
motor-driven roller-skates.”
When soldiers singing “Boots! Boots! Boots!”
tramped Africa in discontent
They tried, tried, tried, without success, to think
of something different,
But now the Dutch have found a means, at
cost of many thousand quids,
With motor-driven roller-skates, to put the
Army on the skids.
We’ve cowered from Dutch Uncles, and we ! ve
coveted Dutch wives afar.
And heard the dread Dutch shout resound in
many a Sydney public bar;
But of all the great Dutch mysteries, there’s
none to equal this invention
For marching twenty miles an hour while
standing stiffly at attention.
The drill will be much different for Holland’s
valiant patrollers;
Instead of saying “Call the roll!” they’ll have
to make it “Call the Rollers!”
And cursing sergeant-majors will be knocking-
off to find out whether
To keep on shouting “Left! Right! Left!” or
change to “Keep your legs together!”
So, Beetlecrushers, crush no more; you’ve ceased
to matter very much;
No matter how you double, you’ll be distanced
by the Double-Dutch;
Perhaps the world’s tranquillity may be dis-
turbed for years to come
Unless the Rolling Dutchmen choose, as march-
ing music, “Rolling Home.”
m
But, short of this, we’ll have to free the heavy
boots of our freebooters,
And mount them all on merry-go-rounds, oi
maybe give them hoops or scooters,
The use of which in time of war may still be
rather hard to see,
But, no doubt, now they’re miners, war is
child’s play to our infantry.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Spike”: In my youth somebody
gave me a book of party-games in which
the author showed a simple way of prov-
ing that, say, \\ equalled 59|, or that
32 oranges were a bunch of bananas. I
tried it out on my maths teacher, but it
didn’t get me far. Something similar
seems to have crept into the sedate
columns of the London “Times.” In a
letter on the “mechanical brain” Professor
Newman stated that the largest known
prime number was (2 to the 127th power
-1). A Mr. Keeling disputed this and
quoted a Russian mathematician, Abret-
ski, who had stated that (2 to the 141st
power —1) was a prime number. Where-
upon another correspondent entered the
lists with:
Come to think of it, so should I.
♦ * * *
“Zake” : The general idea of a man's
umbrella is no doubt good, but was there
ever a more stupid case of rigidity in
design? Take the crooked handle, for
a start. As a sufferer from Ducks’
Disease I find that, walking along
and using it as a walking-stick while
folded as it was obviously meant to be
carried, my lack of inches causes the
ferrule to hit the ground with my arm
not comfortably extended—which is
annoying. Very tall men, of course, can t
even reach the ground with the thing, so
they swing it along in the air; which is
ridiculous. Try to carry one with the
crook over the arm and at the same time
juggle an attache-case, and you have the
most exasperating situation—to keep the
brolly from falling off you have to keep
the forearm in an unnaturally horizontal
“Two angels kisses and a schooner of plonk!"
position. I’ve seen men in desperation
put one hand in their overcoat pocket,
with the crook of the brolly parked over
that wrist, only to give up the uneven
struggle when the gamp has got mixed
up with their legs or nearly tripped them
up as it dragged along the ground. You
should be able to get a brolly that you’ve
been “fitted” for, and it should have not
a large crooked handle, but one which
you could snap on to a buckle at the
side of the trousers, the ferrule to slip
into a slot at the side of the turn-*ups. At
least that would get the damn’ thing out
of your hands.
“Findy”: Will Ogilvie’s verses to the
Sun-god (B. 24/8/’49) speak of the sun
in Scotland coming “as a charmer” in
contrast to the sun of the Australian
outback with “the bite of a burning
blade.” Ogilvie has experienced both, so
should know what he is talking about,
but nonetheless the sun can apparently
be hot at times even in Scotland. Steven-
son, in Kidnapped, describes at some
length the sufferings of David Balfour
and Alan Breck Stewart when, hiding
from the soldiers, they are forced to spend
a whole day on top of a high rock in the
full glare of the sun. Of course R.L.S.
wrote Kidnapped before he left Scotland.
Had it been written after he had experi-
enced a few Pacific summers that chapter
might have been a little different.
* * * ♦
“Morehead”: I wonder whether Rod
Quinn’s hand-carved walking-stick which
was placed on his coffin at his burial was
the same one that figured in his
midnight duel with fellow-author and
one-time Bulletin sub-editor Fred
Broomfield. Rod and Fred were mem-
bers of the old Dawn and Dusk Club,
and had spent a happy Saturday even-
ing in town at a meeting of the D. and
D. discussing literary matters between
long draughts of beer from the pewter
tankards that were the fashion those
days. When the meeting ended Rod,
Fred and Victor Daley made their way
home through the maze of streets east of
Sydney’s Hyde Park. The trio would
pause beneath every second or third
street-lamp to air an opinion. They left
Victor at his front doorstep in Paddington,
and Victor entered his home and prepared
to go to bed. Outside he could hear Rod
and Fred shouting each other down in
the course of a literary argument. Then
he heard the clashing of walking-sticks
and then a mighty bellow from Fred:
“Damn it, Quinn. Fight fair. Not in
the belly, Quinn; not in the belly.”
Peering through the window he could see
Rod and Fred battling furiously with
their walking-sticks. “I had to go out
and quieten them and bring them inside,”
said Victor. “They drank all my Sun-
day beer before they agreed to shake
hands.”
* * * *
“Will L,”: The grave of Barcroft
Boake, another contemporary' of Henry
Lawson, has been rediscovered in St.
Thomas’s Cemetery (North Sydney),
where he was buried in May, 1892. Boys
of Mosman High School, under their
master, Mr. Burns, chopped away the
growth of blackberry and other weeds
which covered the grave and uncovered
the marble tablet showing the poet’s
name. The search was the result of
inquiries by old hands who remembered
that Boake was buried there. The grave
has been “adopted” by the boys who
found it; they have begun to restore it
and clean it up. He lived in Noumea for
a couple of years, and later engaged in
droving and survey work in the Monaro.
He was born in Sydney a year earlier
than Lawson, and spent most of his life
in outback places.
* ♦ * •
“Nunk”: Moving from a big flat to a
small flat, we paid all the costs of moving
and settling-in, not to mention elec-
tricity bills, by selling old furniture that
would not fit in the new flat. Five-bob
each for three 15-year-old kitchen chairs
may not sound much; but those chairs
had originally been four; they had grown
so rickety that I had pulled them to
pieces and made three moderately-sound
ones from them —and they had cost only
12s. 6d. each in 1934. A wobbly gate-
leg table, bought in the same year for
about £4 10s., sold at £3 10s.; a kitchen
cabinet acquired a few years ago for £4
sold at a profit of 10s. We made ss. on
a cracked and dilapidated chest-of-
drawers which cost us only ss. nine years
ago. Eager dealers, calling morning after
morning, began bidding for Nanny’s old
sewing-machine at £6, and in a few days
ran it up to £lO, at which point, the
machine being in the way, and all the
“It keeps him at home, and I get the profits
curtains for the new flat having been
sewn, we let it go. Forty years ago that
machine cost Nanny £l4 10s.
* * * * »
“Flathead”: Having netted not a single
supporter of my dim view on Army dog-
biscuits (B. 3/ 8/ ’49), I cast again. Bottled
lemon-essence, rumored to contain 80
p.c. alcohol, was alleged to have led to
the decrepit condition, cussedness and ex-
plosiveness of most Army cooks, the
evidence for this theory being that the
essence rarely flavored their work, but
remained in one of their cookhouse
hiding-places, ever diminishing. But a
simple experiment which anyone can
conduct in his own home led me to
believe that the babs were maligned men.
While my wife was cooking the other
day I picked up her bottle of lemon-
essence, moistened a finger with it, and
touched it on my tongue. Glorious fumes
for a moment, like a powerful brandy,
and then the essence began eating its
way in. When I could talk again my
wife explained that the corrosion was
due to citric acid. A large gulp of the
stuff would probably take your tongue
down with it. It would certainly destroy
the taste-buds, a fact which, if the cooks
did drink the stuff, could explain some
hitherto-unsolved mysteries.
* * * ♦
“Sally Jane”: No place is too off the
track for those vandals who spatter their
initials in historic spots. Up at Glen-
brook, in the Blue Mountains, there’s
one big rock in thick bush right
away from everywhere yet thoroughly
scarred with badly-scrawled initials.
Here morbidity joins a cheap bid for
fame. Captain Le Weller, one of the
victims of Butler, the killer, was shot
on this rock and buried at the foot of
it. Squads of detectives and water-
police combed the then thick scrublands
and dragged pools and lagoons. Then a
local man, James Woods, noticed the
butt of a pole, felled by himself, well
away from the original spot. Butler had
used it for a weight for the grave, and
it proved the link which finally ran him
to earth in ’Frisco. His were the seem-
ingly perfect crimes of advertising for a
gold-digging partner, taking him to the
mountain country and there disposing of
him. This half-century-old crime is for-
gotten history, save to the initial fiends,
to whom the so-called Le Weller’s Grave
seems to be a magnet.
“Wongajong”: “Fitz” (B. 24/8/’49)
was right. The late Henry Boote was
“the most brilliant Labor journalist of his
day.” There must be an army of old-
timers and not-so-old-timers who can still
recall his vigorous and vivid leaders dur-
ing the 1916 and 1917 conscription cam-
paigns, and his long fight for the release
of the 12 I.W.W. men who were convicted
in 1916. His “Set the Twelve Men Free”
series of articles published in the “Aus-
tralian Worker” (Sydney) excited large
numbers of people, and stimulated the
demand for the final inquiry which re-
sulted in the liberation of 10 of the 12
men. Ernest Scott in the eleventh volume
of The Official History of Australia Dur-
ing the war of 1914-18 said: “The fact
that his [Boote’s] effort did succeed in 10
cases was due to a remarkable piece of
journalism animated by a fervent sense of
justice.” One of his best anti-conscription
leaders, “The Lottery of Death,” had a
curious history. It had passed the censor
in Sydney before it was originally pub-
lished in the “Worker.” It was reprinted
by the “Advocate,” a Melbourne Catholic
weekly, without being submitted to the
censor in that city. Notwithstanding the
Sydney clearance the “Advocate” was
fined £2O. The magistrate who inflicted
the fine said that the article “was an out-
rageous one, and any censor who passed
it should be hounded out of office.” The
prosecution was, in Scott’s opinion, “in
itself a comment on the vagaries of the
censorship.” Boote himself had his
troubles with the censor. They ruled
once that he could not print the Sermon
on the Mount, and on another occasion
he devoted a leader to the weather, as
being the only safe subject he could dis-
cuss—his leader for the week having been
ruled out.
♦ * * *
“Pongo”; If “D.E.” (B. 3/8/’49)
would like to see streets bearing names
which mean something to Australians he
should visit the Sydney suburb of Erm-
ington, where he will find the names of
cricketers —Trumper, Carter, Ferris, Spof-
forth, Bannerman, Murdoch, Trumble,
Macartney and Boyle and poets
Lawson, Quinn, Gordon, Dennis,
Paterson and Kendall. Politicians?
Macarthur, Wentworth, Reid, Barton,
Watson, Parkes, Forrest, Deakin and
Hughes.
♦ ♦ * *
“Plop”: The bookseller told me that I
was the second that morning who had
eased An Outline of Psychology up
from his non-fictional selection. He de-
scribed the first who had performed the
feat as “unusual.” “He came in here with
a great mass of red hair and browsed
around, chuckling to himself now and
then. When he struck this book he read
its title aloud and then called out to me
‘Hey—what the hell’s this all about?’ I
told him ‘Psychology.’ Then he said
‘Drive you mad, wouldn’t they?’ and
stumped off out of the shop.”
* * * *
“Pawang”: A Sydney parson asserted
in his parish magazine that Job had sour
breath, 8.0. and pyorrhoea, and that it is
so stated in the Bible. The controversy
spread to Melbourne, and a “Sun-Pix”
reader asked for confirmation. It was
given as in the 19th chapter of Job’s
poem, verses 17 to 20: “My breath is
strange to my wife, though I entreated
for the children’s sake of mine own body.
Yea, young children despised me; I
arose and they spake against me. All
my inward friends abhorred me; and
they whom I loved have turned against
me. My bone cleaveth to my skin and
to my flesh, and I am escaped with the
skin of my teeth.” The worthy rector
must be very literal-minded. Would he
assert that when Christ said that he
brought, not peace, but a sword, he
meant a literal sword and advocated
atom-bombs and such things? Or that
when Job accuses the Lord in the same
chapter of sending troops to camp around
his tabernacle he was referring to an
actual army? The Book of Job is as
much a poem as the Song of Solomon,
which talks of apples, pears, pome-
granates and lilies and fingers dropping
v/ith sweet-smelling myrrh all sex
symbols.
PROLIFIC SOURCE.
“Statistics reveal that, despite popular belief that
the bathroom is the most dangerous room in the
house, the great majority of accidents occur in the
kitchen and dining quarters.”
The prospect of your treading on the soap
And landing on the tiled floor on your boko,
Causing your vertebrae to telescope
Or to fcfe rendered permanently “loco,”
May be dismissed as negligible chance.
For taking baths is something no more risky
Than buttoning your braces to your pants
Or tossing off a double-header whisky.
You never hear of housewives making beds
Or dusting pianos, thereby coming croppers—
Though they be new to it, as newlyweds—
Or getting hurt through poking clothes in
coppers.
Who do such chores offer, it seems to me,
Far less effective hostages to fortune
Than they who loudly—yes, and endlessly—
Their lords for extra spending-cash importune.
But when—-alas!—so many wives approach,
Even with lots of confidence, the region
Of stove and oven, then there will encroach
The accidents, in numbers that are legion.
Not scalds or knife-cuts, burns, or things like
that
Stem from the mishaps there. But, without
question,
Their efforts, fried or baked, in flour or fat,
Bring on some rattling Bouts of indigestion.
N.S.W.
S. W. K.
Mersenne, in Article 19 of the prcefatio
generalis of his “Cogitata Physico-Mathe-
matica,” Paris, 1644 (as quoted in Mathe-
matical. Recreations and Essays—W. W.
Rouse Ball, 1905), stated that (2 to the
257th power —1) was prime, and I should
be interested to learn if this has since been
disproved.


ABORIGINALITIES
“K”: That drawing of Scorfield’s (B.
10/8/’49), with the husband pointing an
old-fashioned revolver at himself, reminds
me of old days down the Murray when an
offshoot, of a county family in England
managed a noble lord’s noble vineyard
on one of the biggest irrigation areas.
He was universally known as Freddy,
which suited him well, a companionable
little bloke once he got acclimatised. But
there must have been a streak of melan-
cholia somewhere in his strain —so my
old man, who uSed to help out all and
sundry with their accounts in that part
of the bush, used to tell him. About once
every twelve months he would call on the
old man, lament some tangle in his
affairs, and say—“ Well, old chap. I’ve had
enough; I’m going to finish things.”
Generally the O.M. used to say, “Non-
sense, Freddy, come and have a drink.”
But on the last recorded occasion Freddy
would not accept that method of dis-
missing the subject. “No, Bill, I can’t
stand it any longer; I’m going to shoot
myself.” “Well, Freddy, all I can say
is, don’t do it in the house. Wait till
you get up one morning and do it down
by the river-bank.” “You’re making
fun of me, Bill.” “Not a bit. I want
you solemnly to promise you’ll do some-
thing for me before you do shoot your-
self.” “Certainly I will, if I can.” “It’s
this: the night before the selected morn-
ing take a good dose of castor-oil.” Poor
old Freddy was drowned some years later
on a yachting cruise.
* * * *
“Solitude”: Had just got back from
collecting cattle in the snow area when
the boss dropped in on us to report a
Why didn't you let me know you were hreaking-ou t Joe? I'd
have kept you some dinner
fall in a different region. “Worse than
usual this year,” he announced. “And
lower down. Have to get you to bring
in one of the mobs, and Jim and me’ll get
the other. Which stretch will you take?
The one out by Deadhorse Creek or over
the other side in the back country?”
“We’ll take the back,” grunted Seventy-
fiver, before I could get a word in. “Start
soon’s the moon gets itself up.” I scowled
a protest the old coot evidently missed
and growled threats he stubbornly
ignored. “You’re a silly cow, buying us
into the back trip,” I snorted as soon as
the boss disappeared. “Haven’t we
frozen to death enough times lately?
Gripes, it’ll take all of a week longer to
do the back than it will Deadhorse
Creek.” “Don’t think so,” he replied
wearily, chucking a loaf of bread and
hunk of salt jerk into a sugarbag. “Any-
way, the old man needs a lesson.” “Yes?
So you give him the easy stretch. Why,
we’ll be three or four days getting our
mob out, even after we find ’em.” “Yair,
an’ that won’t be much trouble,” he re-
torted, “locatin’ them big bailies. There’s
a maze o’ rough country in the boss’s
section, y’ know.” He tied the mouth of
the bag, then started to shake uncontrol-
lably. “C-cripes,” he roared. “I bet
the old man won’t go buyin’ no more o’
them b-blasted white Shorthorns after he’s
got that new mob o’ his off o’ the snow-
belt.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We dropped our swags
on the verandah of the pub and wearily
sat on them, grumbling about the heat.
We had about 2|d. between us, and, not
being hardened bots, sat there hopefully
regarding the bar door. Round the
corner of the pub came a large man with-
out a coat, his shirt collarless and open.
“G’day,” he said. “G’day,” we said.
“Hot,” said he. “Hot,” said we. Silence,
except for a murmur from the bar. The
sun beat down on the dusty road. “You
blokes got the price of a drink?” asked
the coatless one ingratiatingly. “D’ y’
think we’d be sittin’ here if we did! ” Mat
snorted. “The publican ’ere is tough,”
offered the stranger. “Reckons y’ oughter
cut some wood or somethin’ t’ earn a
coupler beers an’ a feed.” Mat stood up
and reached for his swag. “Me an’ the
mate,” he said, “got no objections t’ that.
We ain’t hots. But we ain’t cuttin’ wood
an’ have soaks like you pushin’ their
frames in when it comes t’ the drinks.
We’ll be gettin’ along.” The big man
grinned. “Y’ can drop y’r swags an’ get
a drink,” he said, “an’ they’ll give y’ a bit
o’ scran in the kitchen. I’m the publican.
Always like t’ see what sort o’ men bag-
men are. Come on.” “How about the
wood?” Mat asked. He looked at us.
“Y’ got no objections,” he said. “That’ll
do me. It’s the blokes with objections I
like t’ see swingin’ the axe.” We followed
him into the bar.
* =H * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: “Colonial Cove”
says (B. 27/7/’49) that a wild pack of
dingoes might corner a small Too and
drag it down. Why the doubt? The
dingo isn’t noted for courage, but his
cunning and tenacity are often underesti-
mated. Dingoes fear men ; yet one will
wait for a wounded man to weaken to
attack him. Once I watched through
glasses while a pack on the other side
of a river attacked a donkey and her
foal. They raced the foal around, tak-
ing turns on the chase, until it fell ex-
hausted. Then they turned on the
mother. There’s nothing on four legs
gamer or more vicious than a donkey,
but she fell before their continuous
offensive. I can’t think that a small Too
would fare better.
“Old-timer”; We camped with the ewes
and lambs near the Avoca bridge, and
there encountered a rabbit-eradicator em-
ployed by the Government. He was dig-
ging-out, trapping and poisoning along
the river-banks. Off to the west for about
two miles ran a blind lane, well grassed,
and the boss decided it wouldn’t hurt
the sheep if they got lost along that lane
and feasted there for a couple of days.
So we lost them, left old Bill in charge
of the camp and headed into Charlton
to seek them. After a careful search of
the Charlton bars and eating-houses we
failed to find the sheep and made back
to the Avoca. As we rode up to the camp
Bill stood up to meet us and beside him
was a grim-looking cove with questions
in his eye. “Hey,” Bill called loudly,
“you blokes seen anythin’ of some
drovers? They left some sheep in a lane
along here an’ this chap is from the Shire
an’ wants t’ see ’em about it.” The boss
eyed Bill, then said “What’s your game?”
“Me!” Bill answered. “Aw, I’m doin’
“I'm getting the engine overhauled."
a bit o’ rabbitin’ along here. That’s me
camp, see.” And he pointed to the
rabbiter’s camp. The boss looked round,
then back at the Shire man. “Loafin’ on
grass, eh, the’ thievin’ cows,” he said.
“Well, mate, we see three or four
strangers beerin’ up in Charlton looked
like drovers. Maybe if y' hurry up y’
can” The Shire man hopped into his
car and vanished towards Charlton, and
we hopped into that lane and rushed those
sheep 15 miles north before dark. The
boss gave Bill an extra two quid that week
for quick thinking, it having come out
that the rabbiter had gone to Wyche-
proof to see his sister or something.
* * * *
“Bo”: He had come from parts un-
known, but it was soon made obvious to
Peewee Gully that his previous environs
had not been where agriculture is pur-
sued. Most of his time was spent in
talking of how he proposed to turn his
virgin block into a model farm, and
at the end of six months the blackberry
had, if anything, increased its already
strong hold, the area of bracken had not
appreciably diminished in extent, whilst
the rabbit population had shot up to
astronomical figures. The rabbit-inspector
paid a visit, and after he had made some
pungent remarks the landholder promised
that he would with diligence and prompt-
ness address himself to the task of eradi-
cating bunny. Time passed, and to the
inspector flowed in complaints from
neighbors whose efforts to mop up the
pest on their properties were being put
to naught because the newcomer’s place
was more overrun than ever. The in-
spector, paying his second visit, came
upon the eradication-promiser hard at
work at the entrance to a warren. In his
hand he held an atomiser such as the
housewife uses for fly-spray; alongside
him were a few bottles. He hailed the
inspector, tapped the atomiser, gave a few
pumps into a burrow and said; “This’ll
fix ’em. D.D.T. Bloke at the store said
it’s easily the best pest-killer on the
market! ”
« * * «
“Zake”: Resolve me this, somebody.
Our wedgetaii eagle has no enemy except
man—at least any of which it need be
afraid. Ma wedgie needs the services of
the midwife twice yearly. The birds are
long-lived. By all the rules of the com-
bination of low mortality, longevity and
fecundity the air should be just about stiff
with the big fliers. Yet they are
apparently no more plentiful than they
have ever been in our 160 years of settle-
ment. Don’t tell me it’s because of the
poisoned rabbits and the trappings. The
eagles dived on wallabies, etc., long be-
fore some idiot brought out the first rabbit
as an addition to its menu, and probably
thousands of years before man invented
the trap and the gun. Perhaps they have
periodically taken a rough census and,
discovering that competition for the pick-
ings was getting fierce, had each other as
fodder and so kept the natural balance.
* * * *
“Blime”: Large gates, small gates,
wooden gates, broken iron gates,
unholy piles of logs and rubbish,
gates stood up and never swung,
gates with broken hinges—they all
belong “further out.” Then there are
double gates, two-way gates, gates that
fall on a nag’s hocks and spoil him for
following through, and gates that are no
more than a length of netting and a slab
of wood that hooks on a bent spike.
There may even be gates that swing
easily and have unbroken catches for all
I know. They aren’t where I ride.
However, I struck something new in old
Jerry s paddock the other day. A
double-decker affair. Two long, low
gates set one above the other, each
swung with separate hinges and with
separate catches. When I struck them
the two were fastened together with an
iron coupling, so that on unfastening
they swung open together. Spotting
Jerry, I rode over and sought the rea-
son. “Well, I bin all me life waitin’ fT
somebody t’ put out a sensible gate t’r
subdivision fences,” he informed, “but
it don’t seem like they’re ever goin’ to
do it, so I made that’n meself. It’s so I
c n let me sheep in the fatt’nin’ paddick
ere through t’ water without them
flamin’ cattle gettin’ through.”
* * * *
“Det Legah”: Joe had prepared the
fowl for the pot while Ned was away
getting firewood. After the chook was
cooked Joe tossed some cut-up vegetables
into the resultant “stock” to make
soup for supper. After lashing into it
with gusto before he retired to bunk, Ned
remarked appreciatively on its quality.
“Only one thing got me tricked, Joe,” he
said. “Where did y’ get the pearl-bafley
from?” Joe looked puzzled. “I didn’t
use any pearl-barley,” he replied. “Well,'’
said Ned, “there was a lot o’ round white
things in it.” Joe laughed. “You an’
your pearl-barley !” he said. “That must
’a’ bin his crop!”
* * * *
“Rawhiti”: Many a bogged beast have
I pulled out with the aid of Dobbin’s
tail (B. 10/7/’49), using the stirrup-
leathers as a trace, though there is always
an element of risk in removing the
leathers from the beast afterwards. The
old fencer I knew always transported his
crowbar to the job by tying it to his
horse’s tail and dragging it along the
ground. Nearly all horses pull well with
their tails, and I have yet to see one who
does and is a jib.
=l= * * *
“Billy T.”: Funny the different ways
grog affects people; some want to talk,
others want to sing, fight, sleep—you
know the variations. Some can still walk
a chalk-line, but their morals have gone
to pot. Old Ben, the handyman at our
tavern, is quite the reverse —a few jugs
and navigation becomes a major prob-
lem, but no quantity of alcohol could
dissolve his sense of responsibility. At
the end of a session he emerges from the
side-door, balances somehow on one leg
while he gropes for a bit of level land
with the other, then sets off on an erratic
journey to the back. Arrived there, he
pauses, swaying gently, and deliberates
upon his duties, decides upon “blurry
chooks” and tacks towards the fowlyard,
to return a little later with eight or ten
eggs hugged to his beery breast—and I’ve
still to see him drop one. A few more
chores are solemnly attended to, and then
comes the grand finale —putting the
cockatoo to bed. This garrulous bird
spends the day in the garden and the
night on an indoor table, but there is no
bottom to his cage, which is merely lifted
from one location to the other, two tin
“floors” remaining permanently in those
positions. Old Ben, after a few futile
clutches at the assorted cages swimming
before him, gets the right one and braces
himself for a supreme effort; his legs are
quite unresponsive now and his collapse
is imminent. He lurches sideways,
steadies, recovers from the threat of a
backflip, sights the door and makes for it
at a wobbly trot while the cockatoo, who
thinks he’s struck the Ferris-wheel and
the slippery-dip all at once, screeches en-
couragement while hanging head-down
from his perch—the silly fool only needs
to let go and he’d fall to freedom.
Eventually the cage is dumped on the
table, Ben gropes his way to his room
and within a few moments the blasts from
his bugle are loud in the land. “Old
beast! ” sniffs the parlormaid ; but to me
he is triumphant, and I’d trust him with
anything,
THE FISH-TRAPS.
The fish-traps by the ford have long been
broken,
The stones displaced, the pattern past repair,
The last word of the tribe has long been spoken
Nor echoes from the vast and empty air.
The fish may swim the shallows now at leisure,
Or lurk in pools beneath the waterfalls;
No more they reap the waters of their treasure
Or serve the need of those that built their
walls.
When stars bloom forth in the celestial meadows
There is no time or place for such as these,
Though summer moon still hunts the summer
shadows
And winter gales still hold corroborees.
But from the hearth-fires of a later people
The smoke of evening spins an airy rope
While alien poplar lifts a leafy steeple
And the apple-orchard flowers on the slope.
Last night at sundown, when the bush grew
lonely,
I thought I saw a shadow with a spear
Step through the other shadows. It was only
The mustering of grey and purple air
Mantling a world that daylight had forsaken
Till the grey and purple mingled and were
lost.
Yet—l swear I saw that dark shape in the
bracken
And heard the willows sigh, “Alas, poor
ghost!”
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


FD
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
CRAIG &
AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M 6261.
The Australian
WOMAN’S MIRROR
Knitting, Crochet and
Needlecraft
Health Talk, Mothercraft
Serial, Short Stories and
Special Articles
On sale everywhere
Price 3d.
Better for School Books
They stand the rough
and tumble. They're lighter
and easier to carry.
Ask first for
ft--
m
FD
SCHOOL CASES
F
FORD SHERIKGTON LTD.
*• ' •'
“B. A. Ker”: The man was a
mechanical genius, of course, and he
could do the trick every time. It was
always the climax to his lunch-time ritual.
Solemnly he would “wind up” his coal-
black billy, sit down on his customary
throne —two bricks —stir the tea with his
rule, pour a good measure of the almost
black fluid into a tannin-stained enamelled
pannikin, then reach for his battered
Gladstone-bag. It was an enormous thing,
the object of the boss’s suspicious glances
every time a packet of nails or a roll of
lead dampeourse “went off.” From
inside its pantechnicon-like capacity he
would produce his lunch; two tins of
sardines. For a second he’d balance
a tin in his left hand, then, as calmly as
if anybody in the world could do the feat,
he’d open first one, then the other —with
no other implement than the key pro-
vided! Although naturally proud of his
God-given gift, Bill modestly refused to
entertain the thought of a stage career.
Eventually, however, news of his prowess
must have reached far-off Norway, I can
imagine the hastily-summoned conference
of sardine-canners, each one aghast at
the thought that a man existed who had
mastered their secret combination. Then
the overwhelming joy when a way to
thwart him was discovered. Now, tins
of sardines have the same design, the
same tag to fit in the slot of the key,
the same scoring along the top of the
tin; but Bill is reduced to the level of a
common mortal—a key is never provided
now!
* * * *
“Laetitia”; I note that ordained native
clergy among the Christianised Torres
Straits natives are becoming yearly less
of phenomena. I hope this doesn’t mean
the passing of the Binghi lay-readers, who
were an exhilarating breed. The proba-
bility is that the dusky ordinands will fall
into what Oscar Wilde termed “careless
and slipshod habits of truth-telling” in
their sermons, which will thereby lose
much in the way of appeal. I remember
in particular one Alligator, a Badu
zealot, who usually took four hours to
warm up to his marathon discourse and
his exposition of the Biblical reference
tc the difficulties which beset the rich
man’s entrance to Paradise. As Alligator
put it to his starry-eyed congregation:
“You fella sabbee camel? Pickshur
b’long him E stop cigarette-packet long
trading-station. You fella too sabbee
needle and eyehole b’long that one. Well,
that hole E too mush small for pig go
through or for rich white fella with plenty
too much money E no go through, either.
But Camel, E proper No. 1 smart fella,
E go through e-asiee,”
* * * *
“Arachne”: Now is about the time in
W.Q. we can expect a flight of the spiders.
One morning white tufts of feathery stuff
flap from almost every tussock of
Mitchell-grass. Each baby spider spins
a balloonette of silk, which lifts where
the wind can catch it. These balloonettes
sometimes float high for many miles;
some sweep low, to become anchored on
grass close to the starting-point. As soon
as he lands the little cove steps out of
his gondola and gets busy with the main
business of life; catching food.
* * ♦ * *
“M.U.R.”: Was sitting one night
recently in an inner city suburb, far from
the sound of horse-bells or the gleam of
sunrise on young wheat, listening to an
A.B.C. “Town and Country Magazine”
session in which the secretary of Grafton
(N.S.W.) Historical Society was being in-
terviewed, While that good man was talk-
ing about the Clarence, old Yugilbar
Castle and related things, faintly through
the voice came the clear, fluted notes of
magpies. Never did their song sound
more glorious than to ears flattened with
the harsh cacophony of the city. They
were evidently singing somewhere beyond
an open window, the notes being muted
by distance though crystal-clear—evi-
dently the microphone was selecting them
because of their pure tone and musical
clarity. I almost packed up and headed
west at once. I hope the A.B.C. treasures
that record.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”; Torres Straits official-
dom, which allegedly seeks to wangle a
reason for being present at a tribal song-
and-dance (B. 20/7/ ’49), must be a differ-
ent genus to that which flourished in
those barmy isles in my day. The dances,
and the monotonous caterwauling which
accompanies them, usually continue for
four nights and days with lacerating effect
on the nerves of sleepless and enforced
European audiences. They were almost
as nervewracking as the marathon “wail-
ings” with which Binghi bade farewell to
his dead. Those non-stop ceremonies
were managed by relays of vociferous
mourners, who maintained a fortissimo
dirge while their relief smoked, giggled
and horseplayed during periods of relaxa-
tion, surcease which was denied the
harrassed whites. I remember one irate
official who customarily allowed seven
days and nights of wailing, then officially
finalised the ceremony by firing a shotgun
over the heads of the mourners.
“Betcha”; Wonder if that Clydesdale
“B. A. Ker” struck was the mare I owned
a few years back. That first-cousin-to-
an-elephant wasn’t blind ; she just refused
to recognise a fence; and when released
from the wires turned and made off in a
different direction till she found another.
I grew tired of blokes ’phoning to tell
“Your game has improved tremendously !”
me my nag was caught in the fence that I
shifted her from within sight of the road.
It wasn’t feed she was after. She would
persistently try to leave a good paddock
and mates to go somewhere else. Tried a
couple of tight barbs, but the so-and-so
had as much feeling as she had sense.
Then after a bit she grew tired of waiting
to be extricated a mere three times a day
and decided she’d get herself loose. She
did. Hoofs like stamper-heads rose and
fell, crumpling netting and smashing wires
and everything else they could contact.
There was no keeping her anywhere after
that, and soon I had few friends left in
the district. A further annoying recollec-
tion concerns 35 quid, every one of 'em
hard to find, that I gave for that —that
animal, yet I parted with her thankfully
enough for two to a cove who lived a
long way off.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Bill slammed the store shut
and was half-way across to the pub when
the house door alongside flew open and
a brawny red face appeared. “Where
you think you’re going, Bill Mason?”
came the female challenge. “You come
back ’ere, see?” Bill ignored the order.
“I said you come back ’ere!” The voice
was more strident. “You can get me a
tin o’ jam for tea.” “Aw, why don’t you
ask me before I shut up?” Bill protested
angrily. “Hang it, Martha, you’ll do this
once too often. I’ve warned y’ before.”
“You come back ’ere at once." Bill
came. He faced his spouse angrily, his
fists opened and closed a couple of times,
then he turned aside to the store. Across
the road, Charlie and Ted watched in-
terestedly. “Every night she does it,
Chari,” Ted remarked quietly. “He’ll
dong her before long. He’s threatened
several times to black her eye, an’
he’ll do it.” “What y’ reckon we
ought t’ do, Ted?” Charlie pondered.
“She’s his missus, o’ course, but then, Bill’s
a friend of ours. Don’t want him to get
into trouble, do we?” “No, but”
“Well, any night now, he’ll paste her,
fair on the dial. Think we ought t’ grab
him and try to reason with him?” “Aw,
I dunno, Chari,” his friend parried.
“ ’Course, I’m sorry for Bill, an’ all that,
but cripes, if he ain’t got enough sense
t’ dong her some other place, serves him
right if he busts his fist!”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: One swallow doesn’t
make a summer, and a few “obviously”
tame dogs being found in the company
of some natives (B. 27/7/’49) doesn’t
prove a concerted attempt by the abo-
riginals to tame the dingo. Long before
our ancestors had reached the stage of
society attained by the Australian natives,
they had trained dogs to be companions
of the chase and the cave. As to the
ease with which Binghi gained a living,
a race which is faced with a struggle for
existence may prevail over its environ-
ment or cease to exist. Binghi did
neither ; he simply merged with his sur-
roundings. In the way of weapons he
evolved nothing more elaborate than the
spear and the boomerang, and his efforts
at agriculture were practically nil. His
supply of food may not have been plenti-
ful, but, such as it was, it was obtained
without great effort or danger. Will
“Colonial Cove” agree that he got his
meagre living easily, and that his environ-
ment and his mode of living did not make
a canine friend necessary? Which is the
point I made previously.
* * * *
“Spinifex”: If “Ophir” (B. 27/7/;49)
ever finds himself in the same predica-
ment, and there’s no fire handy—and no
“Murlonga”—he can save the situation
by merely changing hands. This requires
care; and the fresh grip should be suffi-
ciently close to Mr. Blake’s head to pre-
vent his turning on the holder ; for Joe
doesn’t need much room to swing a
punch. If the snake isn’t very big, and
if “Ophir” doesn’t like the idea of chang-
ing hands, it can be unwound from the
tiring arm with the free hand. If all
else fails “Ophir” might lay the serpent’s
head upon the nearest flat stone, and
proceed to bruise it with his heel —or
some suitable blunt instrument.
* * * •
“Rooster”: The cocky’s wife woke in
the early hours, and after listening in-
tently shook her husband. “Jeff,” she
whispered. “Someone’s walking on the
verandah!” Cursing, Jeff got up and
looked out the window. “It’s the new
hand,” he whispered back. “Looks to be
walking in his sleep.” His spouse soon
joined him. “Well,” she remarked, “I’ve
never seen a sleepwalker carrying a bag
on his shoulder before.” “Hey,” sang
out the cocky, “whatinell are y’ doin’?”
The new hand stopped dead in his tracks,
then turned about. “Well,” he explained,
“I’m sick of listenin’ all night t’ those
damn nags gnawin’ all the bark off the
sleep-out. This is some oats —I’m goin’
to give ’em a good feed f’r once.”
♦ * * ♦
“C.A.”; Charlie measured the feed in
his paddocks with an experienced eye,
then gazed towards the snow-capped hills
in the distance. “Y’ know, it don’t hurt
a bloke to do a bit o’ good in his life,”
he murmured righteously. “Not that I
care about the blokes so much. It’s the
cattle I’m thinkin’ of. Wonderful stock.
First-class mountain-bred stuff, and
there’s hardly a bite left in the snow
country. Gripes, it near cuts a man in
half t’ think o’ the poor brutes gettin’
hungrier every day, just ’cos they can’t
get nobody t’ grass ’em down here. Them
cattlemen’s always after us lately.
Wouldn’t hurt me own stock much, I bet,
and it’d save a few. Yair, y’ can tell
them blokes I’ll take in twenty bullocks
for ’em, will y’. Bill? They can pay me
two-bob a head.” “Two-bob? No good,”
replied his friend. “They’re only
payin’ one-an’-nine. I heard ’em sayin’,
down at the pub.” “One-an’-nine!”
Charlie snorted indignantly. “Cripes, a
man’s Only tryin’ to do ’em a good turn,
an’ see what happens! Awright, Bill,
awright, let their flamin’ ugly bunch o’
scrubbers die o’ starvation then, for all /
care.”
* * * ♦
“Trim”; Shaggy has The Bulletin
(15/6/’49) in front of him. “Goodness,
I’d like to get in touch with that chap
‘C.A.’,” he says. “Fats at thirty-five
bob!” “Fat what?” I asked. “Don’t
say,” he answers. “But fat anything ’d
do me at that price,” I say, “Must be
tough going down there for the
auctioneer coves.” Shaggy says, “Yes,
mighty tough. ‘Twenty-nine-an’-eleven,
thirty bob’ —goodness, a bloke’s hard up
for a sale when he takes a penny bid on
fats, even at that price!” Shaggy reads
on a bit further and says “And here’s a
bloke ‘Carlyle’ talking about ‘rich un-
cultivated paddocks where there are bull-
oak-trees.’ Must be a different species
in Victoria to what we call the bull-oak
up here in Queensland [Casuarina lueh-
manni]. You only see ’em growing on
the hungry country —the hard yellowish
clay-loam undulations. And as for the
leaves [coarse wiry branchlets with micro-
scopic leaves arranged in circlets of nine
to 12 at the nodes] providing rich humus
—well, it’d pay us to get that Victorian
species up here.”
* * * *
“Sackville St,”: We had plenty of
cement and enough sand, but the blue-
metal was running short, with our little
concreting job unfinished. The boss de-
cided to “go to the ant.” There for the
taking was plenty of clean gravel. The
day was delightfully warm, following an
early-morning frost, yet not one ant
charged out even to show disapproval,
let alone defend the castle with custom-
ary ant-like courage! Two buckets of
gravel were purloined from the bed and
the job completed. That was five weeks
ago. Passing the antbed again on the
weekend I was amazed: the bed is dome-
shaped again—and completely covered
with clean v washed-looking gravel. It
is almost impossible to believe that the
nest was ever disturbed. Now I find
myself trying to puzzle out: Why didn’t
the ants swarm out to the attack as they
usually do? Do they hibernate? If so,
how did they manage to alter Nature
in order to do such a marvellous job in
such a comparatively short time? And
the gravel on top—l used to regard it as
merely incidental; the waste carried out
from the underground galleries. Appa-
rently that is not so ; I didn’t disturb the
galleries, yet the little creatures went to
great trouble to restore the gravel on
top. I believe, now, that the gravel is
intended to run the water off, in the
manner of a tile roof. But one thing I
can’t even guess at: How do they get
the gravel so spotlessly clean? Man
could take a dish of the same earth and,
by washing, separate the gravel; but he
could wash those pieces of ironstone a
dozen times and they still wouldn’t dry
as clean as the ant gets them —with no
water at all.
WHEN I AM GONE.
VICTORIA.
I’ll listen to the stones
Talking beside my bones,
Watch the roots of flowers
Feeding the blooms they grow,
Sip moisture from showers
That seep so sweet below,
Walk over beds of seas;
And, also, with all these.
Sleep ’neath the snow and sleet
Without (thank God!) cold feet.
JAMES HACKSTON.


Financial
Peace of Mind
Through expert 'Estate Management during your lifetime —and after
D
FD
TF you have a problem relating to Estate
A Administration, Property or Investment
Management, why not save needless worry
and expense by transferring your responsibility
to the Union Trustee Company?
Mature experience and specialised knowledge
in every sphere of Executorship and Trustee-
ship, backed by almost 65 years of continuous
service, ensure that your affairs will be in good
hands —in safe hands —always. You are
invited to phone or call for a confidential
interview —or write for a complimentary copy
of “Important Facts Concerning Wills,
Executors, Trustees.”
the UNION TRUSTEE SSSS:X i
(Incorporated In Victoria) Established 1885
333 Collins St, Melbourne; 2 O’Connell St,Sydney; 398402 Queen St,Brisbane; and at Albury,Townsville,Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The only Trustee company having offices each with Us owri Board of Directors and management in three States Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Bellambi Coal Co.
June 30, Profit. Dividends—) Reserves.
£ p.c. £ £
1989 . . 6,874 5.1 6,666 77,352
1940 . . 6,302 5.1 6,666 76,988
1941 . . 9,739 6.4 8,333 78,394
1942 .. 8,513 6.4 8,333 78,574
1943 .. 8,369 6.4 8,833 78,610
1944 .. 6,219 6.4 8,333 76,496
1945 .. 8,729 6.4 8,335 76,890
1946 .. 8,619 6.4 8,333 77,176
1947 .. 9,034 6.4 8,335 78,875
1948 .. 10,365 6.4 8,833 79,897
1949 .. 8,470 6.4 8,333 80,034
Above reserves do not include the company’s “Pro-
vision for Replacements and Contingencies’’ (now
£54,938).
Bellambi’s new accounts —first of the
colliery group to appear for last financial
year—show slight damage only from the
recent general strike, as all but four days
of that tragic and senseless episode will
carry over into the current term.
But the figures do suffer from a break-
down, almost equally disastrous »to Bel-
lambi, in the Kemeira tunnel dispute of
October last. This dispute, which
brought in the big northern mines only
for a few days, had closed down the
whole southern field including Bellambi
for five weeks, though the company was
not even remotely a party in the case.
It accounts for the £lBB5 drop in the
latest declared profit, which was not a
bad performance, all things considered.
For over 60 years Bellambi has been
mining the South Bulli field and winning
coal of high steaming value, though not so
suitable for gas production. The busi-
ness had a very successful record up to
the 1930 slump, and even over the last
18 difficult years dividends have averaged
better than 5 p.c. Output now seems to
be about 850 tons of coal in a normal
working day—approximately one-third of
the production rate in the mine’s heyday.
Since the company’s reconstruction in
1923 (this was the occasion for a 60 p.c.
bonus dividend, which gave back to
shareholders practically all the cash they
had subscribed for capital), the board has
adopted new and extremely uninforma-
tive bookkeeping methods. Nowadays
the fixed colliery assets are lumped with
investments in the balance-sheet at a
total figure of £283,613 after unstated
depreciation. On their last separate
appearance in the ’twenties, the fixed
assets were £245,000 and the investments
(mostly Government securities) £356,000 ;
since then the board has returned £510,000
in cash to shareholders (apart from
normal dividends) evidently by realising
on investments ; that amount included the
big bonus distribution and repayment of
13s. 6d. on each of the old pound shares:
1939. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. .. £130,000 £130,000 £lBO,OOO
Reserves .. .. 77,852 79,897 80,034
Replacement and con-
tingencies provision 37,990 64,912 54,938
Creditors and tax .. 36,600 68,340 63,930
Mine, shipping, plant and
investments (at cost,
less depreciation) .. 246,185 275,155 283,613
Stocks 9,539 10,637 11,368
Debtors .. .. 27,643 58,315 36,158
Cash 4,242 7,375 6,096
In the latest accounts the omnibus asset
increased by £8458, mainly through ex-
penditure on mechanised plant. Debtors’
balances were £22,157 less than in 1948,
reflecting the poor output during the
term.
As usual, net profit is declared after
unspecified provisions for tax and depre-
ciation ; and the £8470 quoted was just
sufficient to maintain the fivepenny divi-
dend (6.4 p.c.). Already in this current
term the company has missed nearly as
many working days as in the whole of
last year. Any further dislocations might
compel the board to dig into reserves if it
wished to hold the dividend rate.
Bellambi is the only N.S.W. colliery
standing at a premium on ’Change.
About one-fifth of its 400,000 6s, 6d.
shares belong to the co,’s agents,
Mcllwraith McEacharn, Ltd., while an-
other 10,000 are held by Burns Philp and
Co., Ltd. Each share has net asset back-
ing of 10s. 6d. (apart from the replace-
ment-contingencies provision), and that is
made up entirely of the big omnibus
asset. At the latest price of Bs. the yield
would be 5.2 p.c. assuming that the five-
penny dividend is repeated. Whether the
co.’s earning-ability is any less subject to
Moscow than it was before the strike is
unfortunately not yet evident.
Jantzen (Australia)
i Dividends —*
March Ist 2nd Re-
-31, Profit. Pref. Pref. Ord. Total, serves.
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1940 .. 6,504 9 9 6,288 13,066
Profit on sale of shares, £2626 .. 15,692
1941 .. 7,847 9 9 5,288 18,251
To superannuation fund, £3OOO . . 15,251
1942 .. 10,719 9 9 5,288 20,682
From tax provision, £2178 .. 22,860
To superannuation fund, £3317 .. 19,543
1943 .. 11,994 9 9 5,287 26,250
1944 .. 9,873 9 9 5,287 30,836
1945 .. 8,355 9 9 6,350 32,941
1946 .. 7,252 9 9 7,049 83,144
1947 .. 10,867 9 5 9 7,570 36,441
From tax provision, £3500 .. ~ 39,941
1948 .. 15,156 9 6 9 9,550 46,547
1949 .. 25,118 9 5 9 11,945 68,720
Above reserves are subject to patents and trade-
marks, £lO,OOO in the books.
As in Bellambi —though the scene changes
from a coal-face to a beach promenade
—Bums Philp remains on stage over
near the wings. In the original marketing
of Jantzen swim-suits the big merchant-
shipowner gave valuable help as their
main selling agent in the Common-
wealth, and it holds 10 p.c. of the local
Jantzen’s ordinary shares, plus slightly
more of the preference scrip. The con-
trolling interest, however, rests with
Jantzen Knitting Mills, Inc., of Oregon,
U.S.A., which owns about three-fifths of
the local company’s ords. Australian in-
vestors in general only have access to
the two classes of preference scrip.
Jantzen (Australia) comes of age this
year. With capital of £58,750 it began
making beach-wear at the Lidcombe
(N.S.W.) factory in 1928, as the boom
was about to burst. Thus its spurs had
to be won in difficult depression years,
and the board insisted on maintaining
the standard of its products rather than
sell more cheaply. It was only late in
the ’thirties that this policy started reap-
ing its due reward, but then war inter-
vened to spoil the picture again. Civilian
output was pegged and much of the
Jantzen plant turned to defence work.
Until recently, the post-war problem
was the comparatively pleasant one of
how to keep pace with public demand,
though the supply situation in local
worsted and imported cotton and rayon
yarns caused some concern. These
materials are now coming in more plenti-
fully (except from dollar sources). But
whilst Jantzen has been widening its
range of output—with special emphasis
on knitted winter-wear to assure a
balanced year’s activity—there are plain
signs that a buyers’ market has reappeared
for nearly all its lines. With the textile
industry generally on a puffed-up scale
as a result of the war, and beginning now
to face sharp competition from British
and other imports, a testing time un-
doubtedly lies ahead.
Aware of all this, but also of their
company’s advanced position in the trade,
the Jantzen directors are planning still
further plant extensions. Early last term
capital was increased by £70,000 for work-
ing funds; that helped to reduce the
bank overdraft by £35,904 and to carry
£46,903 more stocks and £13,163 more
book-debts:
Paid capital— 1940. 1948. 1949.
Ist Preference .. £25,000 £25,000 £25,000
2nd Preference .. 50,000 100,000
Ordinary .. ~ 33,750 53,333 73,333
Overdraft .. .. 124,504 88,600
Creditors .. .. 10,546 29,073 80,107
Tax and expenses .. 10,438 24,469 36,808
Freehold, plant .. 80,889 82,797 85,323
Stocks 25,632 224,042 270,945
Debtors .. .. 14,836 40,542 63,705
Cash, bonds .. .. 16,043 428 442
Patents, trade-marks .. 10,000 10,000 10,000
Stocks will no longer have to be main-
tained at the abnormally high and un-
balanced levels necessary when overseas
yarns were scarce, and the funds released
here may be available for factory de-
velopment.
Turnover in the year ended last March
was 29 p.c. higher, monetarily, than the
record established in the previous term.
Details of gross profit, tax and other ex-
penses aren’t given, but the net profit of
£25,118 represented 31 p.c. on average
ordinary capital after paying the pref.
dividends, compared with 21 p.c. in 1948.
The 25,000 first prefs, carry a 9 p.c.
cumulative dividend, and the 100,(XX)
seconds a cumulative 5 p.c. Their
combined requirement is £7250 a year,
an amount that has been regularly
covered (with smaller capital) since 1941.
The firsts are backed nearly 10 times by
net assets, while the seconds have 445.
cover per pound share. At the last selling-
prices of 345. 6d. and 20s. 6d. respectively,
the yield is 5.2 p.c. from the firsts and
4.9 p.c. from the seconds.
City Motor Service (Melbourne)
March 31, Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
£ p.c. £ £
1935 .. 5,224 6 3,750 15,882
1936 .. 3,267 5 3,125 16,024
1937 .. 4,821 5 3,125 17,720
1938 .. 4,309 5 3,125 18,904
1939 .. 5,581 6 3,750 20,785
1940 .. 5,394 6 3,750 22,379
1941 .. 5,052 6 3,750 28,681
1942 .. 2,424 3} 2,344 23,761
1943 .. 3,054 5 3,125 23,690
1944 .. 8,798 6 3,750 23,738
1945 .. 6,476 6 3,750 26,464
1946 .. 6,058 6 3,750 28,774
1947 .. 6,109 6 3,751 31,132
1948 .. 5,329 6 3,750 82,711
Profit on sale of shares, £8376 41,087
From tax provision, £1920 .. 43,007
1949 .. 8,999 6 3,750 48,256
Above reserves do not include “Reserves for in-
surance and depreciation” which now stand at
£21,604,
This steady-paying little business showed
inconsistency of the right kind last term
when it turned in a net profit 50 p.c, better
than average. That was really a wind-
fall, like the capital profit of £8376
marked on the slate during the year; so
the board decided not to embellish the
usual 6 p.c. dividend and used the surplus
to nourish reserves, which already had a
healthy look.
Foregoing table covers the whole career
of City Motor Service since it took over
the old Melbourne Motor Services in 1934.
Main breadwinner has always been the
fleet of hire-cars, which regained its pre-
war strength last term after 13 new
vehicles (mostly Morris) were bought,
making a total of 52. Including these
additions, the depreciated book-value of
the fleet represents only £344 a vehicle.
Other revenue comes in rent from
portions of the company’s eight freehold
properties, including six garages in and
around Melbourne, a showroom in
Lonsdale-street and offices in Collins-
place (still occupied by the Common-
wealth Government); all properties are
shown conservatively in the books at pre-
war cost, A third source of revenue is
dividends from City Motor’s investments,
especially its holding in Industrial
Acceptance Corporation, Ltd. (B.
24/8/’49). It was I.A.C. that provided
last year’s profit windfall, as well as the
capital surplus of £8376 ; before convert-
ing to a public company, it passed out
“certain accumulated profits” as a special
dividend, then shareholders placed one-
third of their scrip with outsiders at a
120 p.c, premium. Altogether, City
Motor picked up more than £12,000, and
the special dividend, which seems to have
been worth about £4OOO, explains all
the improvement in last year’s declared
profit. The hire-car business, in fact, had
turned in £1072 less than in 1948 and
£4275 less than 1947;
1947. 1948. 1949.
Receipts from
Hire-car trade .. £14,956 £11,753 £10,681
Investments .. .. 2,455 3,058 8,359
Rents 5,495 5,463 5,502
£22,906 £20,274 £24,542
Expenses, including tax 16,797 14,945 15,548
Net profit .. .. 6,109 5,329 8,999
Some Government bonds and other in-
vestments besides I.A.C. were sold last
year, the all-round reduction being
£16,911 according to the balance-sheet.
With its undistributed profits, that
allowed the board to repay £20,000 of the
mortgages and to spend £12,482 on the
13 new cars (the net increase here was
£9187 after depreciation of £3295):
1940. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. .. £62,501 £62,601 £62,501
Reserves .. ~ 22,379 32,711 48,256
Insurance and deprecia-
tion reserve .. .. 10,205 21,604 21,604
Mortgages .. .. 46,000 35,000 15,000
Creditors .. .. 14,525 4,646 6,398
Tax provision .. .. 1,528 7,739 4,077
Freeholds .. .. 111,764 104,591 104,691
Vehicles, plant .. 16,247 9,203 18,390
Shares in other cos... 20,875 36,919 24,008
Stocks 2,064 258 470
Debtors .. .. 9,818 6,610 7,756
Cash, bonds .. .. 120 10,370 6,371
Investment income for this term may
be about £4OOO less than last year’s
swollen figure. Rents will probably re-
main unchanged, and much will depend
on the hire-cars. These have to meet
stiffening costs in wages, petrol, tyres and
repairs, but increased hiring charges have
been allowed in Melbourne since January,
and the company’s much-expanded fleet
will reduce the overhead burden. Repeti-
tion of the 6 p.c. div. should not be
beyond its powers ; the yield would then
be 5.3 p.c. on shares bought at 225. 6d.
The scrip is well backed by assets —about
425. per pound share, including the “in-
surance and depreciation reserve,” in
which the depreciation commitment may
be small, since the vehicles are written
down independently.
Miller Anderson (Adelaide)
, —Dividends
Jan. 31, Profits. Pref. Ord. Total. Deficit.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1939 .. 12,005 8i 3 9,950 15,216
1940 .. 14,005 8* Si 10,475 11,686
1941 .. 14,629 11 3i 12,475 9,682
1942 .. 12,737 8i 3i 10,475 7,370
1943 . . 13,927 13i 3i 14,475 7,918
Prom tax provision, £l2OO .. .. 6,718
1944 .. 15,471 8i 6 13,100 4,847
1945 .. 18,698 6 6 11,100 3,151
1946 .. 19,256 6 6 11,100 11,307
1947 .. 23,325 6 6 11,100 23,532
Prom tax provision, £12,000 .. 35,532
1948 . . 24,297 6 6 11,100 48,729
1949 . . 31,175 7 7 12,950 66,964
Rapid improvement in earnings over the
last few years has transformed the
finances of this old Adelaide draper.
Since before the war its free reserves have
grown from a substantial minus quantity
to more than one-third of capital; and
net liquid assets, which exceeded
liabilities by £8360 in 1939, had reached
£93,460 at last balancing-date.
Though the history of Miller Anderson
goes back for almost a century, the
present company dates only from 1927,
when the ailing family business was taken
over by Marcus Clark (Vic.), Ltd. The
latter went into liquidation six years ago,
and then a controlling interest in Miller
Anderson passed to the parent Marcus
Clark, of Sydney. Enough of its ordi-
nary capital is held elsewhere to qualify
for ’Change fisting.
A third member of the present Marcus
Clark team is Bon Marche, Ltd. (Sydney),
but Miller Anderson differs somewhat
from both its cousins in retailing status.
For one thing, much less of its trade is
on time-payment; although last year’s
business set new records for turnover, it
closed with debtors’ balances actually
£14,863 less than at the beginning of
the term. These released funds, together
with £18,225 of retained profits and
£9130 depreciation allowance, were used
to repay £5994 of liabilities and to in-
crease stocks by £14,307 ; another £14,307
stayed as cash;
Paid capital— 1939. 1948. 1949.
Preference .. .. £BO,OOO £BO,OOO £BO,OOO
Ordinary .. .. 105,000 1 05,000 105,000
Mortgage . . .. 66,000 66,000 66,000
Creditors and tax .. 33,867 101,085 96,091
Freeholds .. .. 144,921 145,408 132,525
Plant 24,717 22,213 25,966
Stocks 66,801 138,689 162,456
Cash, bonds . . .. 145 38,860 63,167
The heavier stocks are mostly imports
from U,K., and that source is to be
cultivated further this term, the chairman
says. Now more than twice their pre-
war money value, stocks appear in the
books after an unspecified “devaluation”
reserve.
The tightening pincers of price-control
margins and costs squeezed the rate of
gross profit on sales to record thinness
last year. Actually, the improvement of
£6878 in declared profit was due to
smaller allowances for tax, depreciation


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON $
<fcUWJT£\*
u«e
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson. Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants ,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS ft OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
EULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS I t PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
•jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
sJ/ine CsTolei
FACING G PARK
*n»e one thing yon will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth b the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it b merely “round the comer”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms ore all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
lAE WEHTWARIH
in
< —
T n 7
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OP SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divokcb.
TO ANNIE ELIZABETH DOUGH late of
Matraville.—TAKE NOTICE that LEX
WILLIAM DOUGH has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1077 of 1949 on the
ground of desertion -without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
16th November 1949 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
HALSE MILLETT WALLMAN & SEE,
Solicitors, 18 Martin Place, Sydney.—
(i«s.) J.DOCGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 18 78
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
Ol
m
mz.
Lc'h
M
cvA
ft
ter n\
L.
/
ran round the little school,
A cough, and then three more;
The Master climbed down
off this stool,
1 And in a glass did pour
Some wondrous drops of magic balm
To make each child secure
From cough and cold that wintry day.
With Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
Don’t keep sneezing get
Woods’ Great Peppermint Core
Cigarette Lighter Service
We stock spare parts for every well-
known make of Cigarette Lighter.
Send your defective lighter to us.
Repairs returned post free to any
address in the Commonwealth.
BOLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUST.
PTY., LTD.,
8a Castlereagh St., Sydney. BW 2038.
MEMORisuh EASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
UMq,
* SS
mm
m
m
if you protect
your savings this way
Nowadays, hundreds of thousands of Australians are carrying
out careful Saving Plans. By resisting the temptation to spend
recklessly, by purchasing essentials only and avoiding luxuries,
by putting something aside from their pay each week, by
fostering the saving habit at every opportunity, they are build-
ing up worthwhile funds for the future. Such saving is the
very basis of security.
The next step for such people should be wise investment.
Investment protects savings, keeps them out of harm’s way,
prevents them slipping through your fingers.
To-day, the best investment for all savers is the Eighth Security
Loan, opening on September 6. Eighth Security Loan Bonds
are absolutely safe—guaranteed by the Commonwealth. They
earn good interest regularly—payable every six months. And,
in an emergency, they arc readily negotiable for cash. Start
to give yourself the feeling of confidence which only a solid
financial background can provide. Invest your savings to-day,
as an advance subscription to the Eighth Security Loan.
MAKE AN ADVANCE SUBSCRIPTION TO THE
F
EIGHTH
SECURITY
B Ot A M OPENING
Li VA Pi SEPTEMBER 6
Although the Eighth Security Loan
does not open until September 6, you
can make an advance subscription at
once.
P85L6.113.89
ADVANTAGES
OF INVESTMENT IN
THE EIGHTH
SECURITY LOAN
Investment In the Eighth
Security Loan is easy, safe
and profitable, whether your
subscription is for £lO, £l,OOO,
£lO,OOO or more. Not only does
it help to protect your future,
it assists in maintaining
Australia’s prosperity as well.
Here are the facts you want
about the Eighth Security Loan:
LOAN FACTS;
The full amount sought is re-
quired to pay for Repatriation
and Rehabilitation, and for
Public Works and Services of
the Commonwealth and States
and, as may be necessary, for
the redemption of unconverted
securities of the maturing
Loans.
For 3£% Bonds, you may sub-
scribe for £lO, or any multiple
thereof.
For 3a % Inscribed Stock, mini-
mum subscription is £lOO, but if
you already hold that amount,
you may increase your holding
by any multiple of £lO.
For 2% Bonds and Inscribed
Stock, you may subscribe for
£l,OOO or multiples thereof.
Any bank will hold Bonds in
safe custody without charge.
You may invest for 3 years at
2% p.a. (subject to the above
conditions), or for 14 years at
3i% p.a.
Interest, calculated from the
date funds are lodged at banks,
savings banks or money order
post offices, will be paid on
15th April and 15th October
each year. It may be credited
to your bank or savings bank
account without charge.
Bonds or Stock may be readily
sold if you need to use your
money before the date of
maturity.
The Eighth Security Loan opens
6th September, but you can
make a fully paid advance cash
subscription at once.
CONVERSION
OF MATURING
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITIES
Investors holding Bonds or
Inscribed Stock in previous
Commonwealth Loans now
maturing may renew their
investments by converting into
the Eighth Security Loan.
These are the issues about to
mature: —
Maturing 15th September; 21%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1945—three issues.
The maturity date shown on
these Securities is 15th Sep-
tember, 1950, but the Treasurer
has exercised his option to re-
deem these Securities on 15th
September, 1949, and they are
now due for conversion on that
date).
Maturing 15th October: 2%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1946—tw0 issues);
31% Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935 —one issue).
Maturing 15th November: 3i%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935 and 1936—tw0
issues).
If you hold Bonds and In-
scribed Stock in any of the
issues listed above, convert
your holdings at once into the
Eighth Security Loan. See your
bank Immediately.
and contingencies (not itemised).
Net trading revenue just broke
even with 1948, and was less
than 1947: —
1947. 1948. 1949.
Net trading
revenue .. £94,620 £91,358 £91,425
less tax, depre-
ciation and
“other con-
tingencies” .. 71,295 67,101 60,250
Net profit.. £23,325 £24,297 £31,176
Par pauf +n
total capital.. 12.6 18.1 17.0
Turnover thus being the crucial
point for a continuance of
profits, the board has lately
bought the Netter building in
Hindley-street adjoining Miller
Anderson’s main store, and it is
hoped to extend through shortly.
In the early months of this term
turnover has been held.
For a long time buyers have
been calling 235. lOd. for the £1
ordinaries without response. At
that price the yield would be 5.8
p.c. on the basis of the last 7
p.c. dividend, which should be
well covered again by this year’s
profit. Net asset cover is 325.
9d. a share.
The prefs. are cumulative to
6 p.c. and participate up to 8
p.c. with the ordinaries. At
their steadily-maintained price
of 265., the yield is 4.6 p.c. at
the minimum rate, or 5.4 p.c. on
last year’s distribution ; they are
backed three times over by
assets.
Burwood & District Cash Orders
June Re-
-30, Profit. , serves.
£ p.c. £ £
1938 .. 1,955 8i 1,626 1,175
1939 .. 2,304 10 1,996 1,483
1940 .. 2,237 10 2,000 1,720
1941 .. 2,290 10 2,000 2,011
1942 ~ 1,705 7i 1,500 2,216
1943 .. 986 5 1,000 2,202
1944 .. 806 4 800 2,208
1945 . . 1,021 5 1,000 2,229
1946 . . 1,420 6 1,200 2,449
1947 .. 3,081 7 1,400 4,130
1948 .. 2,408 V 1,750 4,788
From tax provision, £BOO 5,588
1949 . . 3,324 7 2,713 6,199
The favored suburb of Bur-
wood, associated with this com-
pany’s title, has always been one
of Sydney’s lively shopping-
centres, biggest of all on the line
to Parramatta. Since this cash-
order business started there 22
years ago, with £20,000 capital,
it has never attempted to move
citywards, but slowly widened
its field in the direction of Parra-
matta and beyond. It took on
a new interest during the war
by buying out the Stirling
Furniture Co. (P’matta), and
now a furniture warehouse is
also going up in Railway-
parade, Burwood; issues of
£5OOO and £20,000 in 1947 and
1948 are financing this develop-
ment. A subsidiary, Burwood
Enterprises Pty., was recently
launched to cope with the build-
ing project, and its present capi-
tal of £8505 represents cost of
the warehouse to date:
1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. .. £31,315 £45,000
Reserves .. .. 4,789 6,200
Overdraft, creditors .. 6,530 8,657
Tax provision .. 2,046 1,466
Freeholds, fittings .. 4,740 193
Shares in subsidiary 6 8,505
Stocks .. .. 11,110 10,204
Debtors . . .. 28,151 32,815
Owed by subsidiary.. 77 15
Cash 197 4,591
Meanwhile, the cash-order busi-
ness is proceeding, and evidently
accounts for most of the £32,815
debtor balances, which rose by
£4664 last year and are now 30
p.c. greater than before the war.
Overdraft was reduced with the
new capital, and £4500 cash
awaits future outlays on the
warehouse.
On the present capital of
£45,000 last year’s £3324 profit
(after £l4OO tax allowance)
would represent 7.3 p.c. The
board hopes that earnings will
respond to the opening of the
warehouse as from the New
Year. On a 7 p.c. dividenc
basis shares bought at 255.
would yield 5.6 p.c.; asset back-
ing is 245. per pound share.
The £271,345 profit just an-
nounced by Western Mining
Corporation included a non-
recurring capital surplus of
£246,811 from selling 800,000 of
its shares in the subsidiary
Central Norseman Gold Corp.
Dividends from Central Norse-
man provided another £32,813
(compared with £107,656 in
1948) and management fees from
various cos. £7313. Chiefly a
holding concern, Western Min-
ing floated a new subsidiary in
Great Western Consolidated
last year to take over its Yilgara
leases; the parent’s sharehold-
ings are now in Central Norse-
man (£328,125), New Coolgardie
G.M. (£220,641) and Great Wes-
tern Consolidated (£128,427)
making a total of £677,193 on
face-values, with scrip of the
first two commanding large
premiums on the ’Change list.
Central Norseman, the only
earning pup, had fairly tough
going last year, winning much
of its ore from pillars and the
margins of ore-shoots; alto-
gether it treated 123,277 tons of
ore to get 44,312 fine oz. gold,
and the silver recovered was
32,4900 z.; about five-sixths of
its ore came from the Phoenix
mine, which shared most of last
year’s development work with
the Princess Royal mine. The
second subsidiary. New Cool-
gardie, spent its time preparing
the Surprise mine for produc-
tion ; and Great Western Con-
solidated reports advance work
at Copperhead and Southern
Cross, The parent’s paid Capital
is now £324,833, with outsiders
contributing another £740,839
to the subsidiaries’ capital. Con-
solidated figures for the group’s
mining development account,
plus plant, amount to £1,599,917,
and current assets are £427,643.
The parent’s ss. scrip has been
advancing a little on the mar-
ket, latest price being 13s. 6d,


Men Who Know Wine.
Know
D
vm
mSk
WITH II
ASA
HEAT-STORAGE COOKER
No switches to turn, no gas to light! Your AGA
is ready day and night! Featherlight cakes . . . superb
roasts . . . grills done to a sizzling turn! Thanks to even,
scientifically distributed heat, the AGA cooks every type
of food to perfection. And no matter how much you
cook you can’t increase the AGA’s fuel-bills, for this
British-made cooker has a guaranteed maximum fuel con-
sumption! The AGA is guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
DEMONSTRATION
Come and see the AGA Cooker in action I Admire
its smiling chromium plate, and sparkling easy •
to-clean, cream-coloured, enamel.
LEVIN AND COMPANY LIMITED
Sole Agents for AGA Heat Storage Cooker
45 King Street, Sydney. 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
113 Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Cnr. Margaret & Albert Streets. Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth.
A5/168
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Socialist “Works” Plans
In one of his “Report-to-the-
Nation” broadcasts Prime
Minister Chifley said that a
national - works reserve pro-
gramme now ran into £743 mil-
lion, adding that the “works re-
serve” was large enough “to
assure confidence that if a slump
hit Australia useful jobs would
not run out.” He elaborated to
the extent of saying that the
programme consisted of “much-
needed public works which the
Commonwealth and State Gov-
ernments were keeping in re-
serve to start promptly if depres-
sion and unemployment again
hit Australia.”
These announcements of Mr.
Chifley have puzzled even ex-
perienced political observers.
They have expressed astonish-
ment that. Budget-faking and
all, Mr. Chifley should have
accumulated such an enormous
sum of money as £743 million
as a “reserve works programme.”
Budget-faking and all, however,
Mr. Chifley has nothing like
that sum of money saved and
set aside for “reserve works” or
anything else. He may have re-
serves of upwards of £lOO mil-
lion, taking into account capital
expenditure charged to revenue ;
but they are only reserves if he
considers that it isn’t necessary
to fill in some of the holes
caused by bank-credit war-time
expenditure that was of a com-
pletely inflationary nature.
What Mr. Chifley is talking
about means that Australia, on
the Prime Minister’s estimates,
is already £743 million short of
essential works. Nobody will
say that his estimate is too low.
In road-maintenance and -con-
struction, railway works, ship-
building, harbor works, colliery-
mechanisation, city office and
factory building, engineering,
housing, rural development and
manufacturing expansion the
Commonwealth is probably all
of a thousand million pounds
behind. The Bulletin has in-
sisted for years that there is a
tremendous amount of work
waiting to be done in Australia.
But it is not at all satisfied that
it will ever be done under
Socialist government in the
Commonwealth, or that the “re-
serve works programme” which
Mr. Chifley says he has in hand
represents anything like the
right plan for the country in its
present circumstances.
It is well known that the
Socialists are eminently capable
of spending money. They have
even employed characters like
Jock Garden to help them do it.
But whether the Chifley £743-
million programme would be
much more than a vast wastage
of manpower and money after
his planners and the Communist
party had done their worst with
it is another matter entirely. It
might mean, in the end, a more
permanent shackling of the
Commonwealth with the “con-
trols” that the economics of
scarcity seem to imply under
Socialism, a further burdening
of the community with debt and
taxation.
It is Socialist “planning” that
has been responsible for a
great part of our present indus-
trial and capital-goods arrears.
Under Chifleyism the rate of
output from trade-unionists has
fallen sharply, and initiative and
enterprise have been blunted by
“controls” and heavy taxation.
The 40-hour week has been a
big factor in our present indus-
trial illness; “Labor”-fostered
Communism has been an even
greater one. Communism is so
much a part of “Labor” that to-
day it is hard to see where the
snake’s body leaves off and its
tail begins.
Australia needs a great deal of
industrial planning. But most
of all it needs a revival of pro-
ductivity on the basis of its pre-
sent capacity. We have the
capacity to produce vastly
greater quantities of coal; but
the Communists and the mili-
tants say “no,” and Chifley
acquiesces. We are producing
steel at around 60 p.c. of plant
capacity; but has Chifley any
plans to help 8.H.P., producer
of the cheapest steel in the
world, get going at full capacity?
None at all. The big obstacles to
full steel production again are
the Communists and militants,
and again Chifley is scared even
to insist on a compulsory secret
ballot when vital union decisions
are being made.
Any capable, sincere planner
talking about planning for a
huge programme of public
works would admit that the first
thing necessary to the success
of his plans was that existing
industry must be got function-
ing fjplly and efficiently to pro-
vide the raw materials and ser-
vices necessary to the later and
larger programme. Coal and
steel are fundamental in a large
construction programme,
whether it embraces unification
of railway gauges or anything
else. It is indicative of the value
of the Chifley “plans” that the
“reserve” for them has “grown”
from £358 million to £743 mil-
lion in “the past two years.” If
that means anything at all it
means that we have short-pro-
duced, on Chifley figures, nearly
£4OO million in two years. But
£4OO million would really be,
accepting the basis of this con-
tention, an understatement.
Maoriland’s Budget
Maorilanders seized on their
Labor - Socialist Government’s
hopes of dollar loans from
Uncle Sam and Canada as the
highlight of Finance Minister
Walter Nash’s otherwise unin-
spiring fourteenth Budget.
After tasting dollar austerity
over the past year or so, New
Zealand has made up its mind
it doesn’t like it and wants to
end it. All Maorilanders, how-
ever much they differ on the
merits of State socialism or free
enterprise, seem agreed on one
thing—that there’s no pros-
perity at the end of the road
that leads away from dollars.
They don’t relish the prospect of
belt-tightening, even to the point
of sheer exhaustion, to attain a
dollar balance somewhere near
zero, and condemn that course
as irrational from every point of
view.
As a young country, hardly
more than in its ’teens, N.Z.
would be stunted and dwarfed
by dollar starvation, but would
respond to an inflow of dollars
as if it were a blood-transfusion.
The country needs population—
its total of 1,850,000 isn’t much
more than Sydney’s—and it
wants capital: tractors, earth-
moving machinery, special types
of trucks, plant to speed up
cargo-working, materials unob-
tainable except from dollar
sources, machinery to replace
plant worn out by long use, and
parts for machines that might
soon be idle if something isn’t
done about arrears of main-
tenance.
The Dominion can’t earn
enough dollars to buy more
than a trickle of stuff its
sales to Uncle Sam are only
half or a third its pur-
chases —so the only way out is
to borrow. If Uncle Sam is
ready to talk business, private
enterprise as well as the Govern-
ment wants a share of the
dollars, and final judgment on the
plan will depend on how funds
are parcelled out. In the bar-
gaining N.Z. will be on the look-
out for openings to increase ex-
ports to the U.S.A. and Canada.
On Uncle Sam’s side there’s
likely to be a demand for busi-
ness freedom before he opens his
purse-strings much.
On the taxing and spending
side, the Budget had little to
cheer up Maorilanders. There
was an extra ss. a week each for
those who make up the army of
social-security beneficiaries —re-
ceivers of age, widows’, invalids’,
miners’, sickness and unemploy-
ment benefits, which went up to
£2 10s. a week. War pensions
were swelled by the same
amount, except that totally-
disabled war pensioners had a
rise of 10s. to £3 10s., and
veterans more than 50 p.c.-dis-
abled advanced between ss. and
10s. To taxpayers Nash said
bluntly; “There is no way of
reducing taxation very substan-
tially unless by cutting social ser-
vices and reducing the number
of civil servants, and the Gov-
ernment will do neither.” So
that was that.
The £lO flat income-tax rebate,
which made 125,000 former
taxpayers tax-free last year and
halved the tax for half
that number, remained. Total
taxes were £101,062,000 for
the Consolidated Fund and
£31,600,000 for the Social
Security Fund i.e., £132.7
million in toto, against £130.5
million a year ago. Look-
ing back, the total is double
as much as eight years ago and
more than five times as much as
in Labor’s first year (1936).
The rate works out at £7l 10s.
for every Maorilander —man,
woman and child. This is in
line with M.L. Labor-Socialists’
view that they know more about
BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY’S FIGURES.
B.H.P.’s new issue has been fully placed, and when all
the new money is in paid capital will be in the vicinity of
£18,513,000. Reserves will get the benefit of £2,314,150 of
share premiums. The year to May 31 last was one of
smaller steel output by the B.H.P, group—the lowest since
1945-46—and profits of the group dropped from
£1,453,511 to £1,113,594. Depreciation provision was
higher at more than twice the year’s claimed net profit;
taxation allowance, though lower, was still greater than
the claimed net profit. Here are comparisons over the
past nine years:
B.H.P. and Subsidiaries.
Year Tax N.S.W.
Ended. Depreciation. Provision. Net Profit. Steel Production,
May, £ £ £ Tons.*
1941 .. 2,164,905 1,963,076 1,414,953 1,644,000
1942 .. 2,404,658 1,897,423 693,587 1,697,000
1943 .. 2,459,538 1,366,650 818,407 1,626,000
1944 .. 2,454,057 1,533,482 1,011,112 1,524,000
1945 .. 2,538,289 1,226.602 813,891 1,346,000
1946.. 2,131,853 1,087,364 504,187 1,054,000
1947 .. 2,058,972 2,057,550 1,477,415 1,315,000
1948 .. 2,385,029 2,047,958 1,453,511 1,278,000
1949 .. 2,399,817 1,437,384 1,113,594 1,076,000
20,997,118 14,617,489 9,300,657 12,560,000
* Year ended June 30.
8.H.P., after allowing for outside shareholdings, has about
a9O p.c. interest in the foregoing figures. It will be seen
that depreciation allowance over the past nine years
exceeds B.H.P.’s increased issued capital, and compares
with a present book-valuation of fixed assets of just under
£l9 million.
During the war B.H.P. supplied the Commonwealth
Government with munition steel at cost price. Since the
war the plant has never had a fair run by reason of coal
and manpower shortages. The investment potentialities of
the enterprise, given an adequate coal supply, are very
impressive.
The fully-paid shares, after touching 475. last week,
came back to 465. The contribs, sold freely around
225. 6d., making their price, when fully paid, 425. 6d.


INVESTMENT
N
INDUSTRY
SUPPORT
FOR
GOVERNMENT
LOANS
help provide
in yieTpelicj
FD
If you are the owner of a life assurance policy
you probably enjoy benefits not guaranteed
in your contract . . . the “plus” of added
bonuses. These arise because your Life Office
invests your savings in a wide range of com-
munity services. The interest earned, coupled
with the fact that costs of life assurance
management in Australia are the lowest in the
world, ensures that you receive that welcome
“plus” in your policy . . . the benefit of
added bonuses.
THREE MILLION POLICYHOLDERS . . SEVEN AND A HALF
MILLION AUSTRALIANS, MATERIALLY BENEFIT THROUGH
LIFE ASSURANCE
ISSUED BY THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
2/229
ill/;
Message from Macquarie
“ Persevere, Gentlemen,. in your exertions to
foster this Infant Establishment and be
assured it shall ever have my warmest support
and patronage and that the time is not far
distant when the Bank will on its own merits
obtain a public confidence, and gradually
flourish, to the Credit and Benefit of the
Proprietors and the Country at large”.
This was the message which Governor Lachlan
Macquarie sent to the directors of the first public
company in Australia the Bank of New South
Wales —at their inaugural meeting on April Bth,
1817.
Macquarie’s confidence was well-placed. His
vision has been more than realized. To-day, in
Australia alone, customers have more than £220
million on deposit with the “Wales”, while the
Bank’s advances here reach nearly £lOO million.
This shows the extent to which Macquarie’s Bank
has flourished “to the benefit of the country at large”.
Consult and use
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
THE PEOPLE'S BANK SINCE 1817
Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability
A4930D
Have you looked over
your will lately?
IF you have not revised your Will to meet
to-day’s conditions, the. consequences may
be serious for someone who depends on
you. Your responsibility to that someone
is too important to justify delaying until
some “to-morrow” that may never come.
Why not have a con-
fidential talk with one
of our Senior Officers
on the subject of the
appointment of the
Company as your
Executor and Trustee
—alone or jointly with
a relative or friend.
He will help you to
provide for the efficient
and economical settle-
ment of your Estate,
also for its efficient
management thereafter.
The final step of having
your Solicitor re-draw
your Will, should then
be a simple matter.
If you prefer , send
first, for a copy of the
booklet “Your Execu-
tor and Trusteelt
explains the services
offered by the Company
—and the charges.
g
WnSJJ
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman);
E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS:
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT. M.H.R.
D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS.
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINIST&ATOH. ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT JFAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTU and ORANGE
spending than any little Maori-
lander, but some day not far
off they might find they’ve killed
the proverbial goose. Budget in-
flation has gone a long way in
N.Z. —further than the price out-
look for exports warrants, with a
buyers’ market not far round
the corner. Stabilisation hasn’t
saved M.L. from overstepping
the mark in cost of government,
and when butter, cheese, meat
and wool prices move back there
will be awkward readjustments
to make. A run of good seasons
has helped to cover up weak-
nesses on the farm-production
front, but this can’t be expected
to go on for ever.
“Beroo”: Temporary short-
ages of refined jsugar in some
parts of Australia (due to
factors outside the industry’s
control) are apt to blind people
to the splendid job which the
Australian sugar industry is
doing. It is handicapped, as are
all primary producers, by spiral-
ling costs and increased charges
all along the line, but has still
managed to increase production
and provide the sugar at a price
lower than in nearly every other
country. Figures released by the
International Sugar Council for
the latter part of last year give
comparative retail prices for 38
different countries. The list
shows that Australians enjoy
cheaper sugar than any other
people except the Mexicans,
Danes, Argentines and Peruv-
ians. Figures for some im-
portant countries, here con-
verted to Australian pence per
pound of refined sugar, are;
Spain Is. 9yd., Italy Is. Byd.,
Poland Is. 3d., France 10d.,
New Zealand Bd., Cuba 7yd.,
U.S.A. 7d., Canada 6|d., U.K.
6yd., Australia 4yd,, Argentine
3yd.
City Electric Light Co., Ltd.
(Brisbane), first sod of whose
new Bulimba plant was turned
by Premier Hanlon about a
year ago, is to issue 1,621,000
new £1 ords. at par to share-
holders at the rate of two for
every five held. This will bring
the co.’s issued share capital to
£5,675,481. Debenture capital
of £2,012,000 Will make total
capital employed £7,687,481.
New money is to be used in a
general programme of expansion
in town and country, including
the new plant, estimated to cost
£6 million.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Information Sought.
Particulars of the sinking of H.M.S.
Barham in 1941 ? When was the
news of her loss released?
H.M.S. Barham sailed from Alex-
andria on the afternoon of Novem-
ber 24, 1941, and proceeded, with
other units of the battle fleet, to the
westward, in order to support a
British cruiser force which was en-
gaging an enemy convoy. Through-
out the next day this battle force
was under constant enemy air obser-
vation, but no hostile enemy action
was apparent until 4.30 p.m. on the
25th, when a German submarine,
U. 331, succeeded in penetrating the
British destroyer screen and tor-
pedoed Barham, which blew up and
sank within a few minutes, with
heavy loss of life. The loss of the
Barham was officially released on
January 27, 1942. The submarine
responsible was subsequently sunk
by aircraft in the Mediterranean on
November 17, 1942.
* * * *
Particulars of the descendants of
Captain James Cook?
Cook’s family soon became extinct
in the direct line. On December 21,
1762, just before he sailed for New-
foundland, he married a Miss Batts,
of Barking, in Essex. By her he had
six children; three died in infancy,
the others before the end of the cen-
tury. James, the eldest, rose to com-
mand H.M. sloop Spitfire, and was
drowned off the Isle of Wight in
1794. Nathaniel, the second, was, in
1780, at the age of 16, lost in H.M.S.
Thunderer, which foundered at sea.
Hugh, the youngest of all, died in
1793, when only 17, at Cambridge,
where he was studying for the
Church. Mrs. Cook lived to be 93,
and died at Clapham on May 13,
1835.
* * * *
Information concerning Pelorus
Jack, the dolphin that frequented
New Zealand waters?
For more than a quarter of a cen-
tury he met almost every vessel cross-
ing from Wellington to Nelson,
escorting it to the entrance of the
narrow strait. He was never known
to do any harm, but a passenger
threatened him once with a rifle. The
Government was petitioned to take
him under its protection, and from
that_ time it was made an offence,
punishable by a heavy fine, to attempt
to harm him. As a result of this he
became famous all over the world.
After the close of 1916 passengers
missed his friendly greeting and he
has not since been seen. He was the
only one of his species—Rissets
dolphine—ever known to visit N.Z.
waters.
Brief Answers.
M.A.C.: The verb “enter” is both
transitive and intransitive. “Japan
entered into the war” is correct
grammatically, though the omission of
“into” would be preferable. How-
ever, compare Heb. iv, 3: “For we
which have believed do enter into that
rest” A.McA.C.: Write Dept, of
Defence, Melbourne C.D.: (1)
The highest price realised in 1946 for
kangaroo-skins offered on the Sydney
market was 320 d. each, being for
reds, blues and greys. (2) There is
no particular time for breeding. (3)
Write Mick Simmons, Ltd., 720
George-street, Sydney. (4) Reason
for removing lambs’ tails is to pre-
vent fly-strike C.S.S.: D. Ray-
mond, 128 Bathurst-street, Sydney.
P.F.W.: (1) War gratuity be-
comes due for payment on March 3,
1951. (2) Interest at 3£ p.c. com-
pound interest is calculated on daily
basis at yearly rises from the date of
a member’s entitlement F.J.: If
you wanted to travel to the United
Kingdom and return at your own
expense there would be no objection
to your re-entry into Australia. You
would be ineligible for any financial
assistance under the migration
schemes until you were able to
comply with certain residential quali-
ncations which have been prescribed
for Australian-born persons and
British subjects with previous resi-
dence in Australia.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS, No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
O.K.K. Short story didn’t avert
a long strike 8.W.K.: Our idea
is, if you set a story in a.d. 1990 you
should print it in a.d. 1990 P.R.:
“Humpty Dumpty” not for our wall.
E.B.E.: Still, it’s nice to think
there’s someone heroic enough to
find humor in lantana A.8.R.:
Welsh steelworks are a bit away from
our line R.A.F.: Race story in-
genious, but not quite good enough.
Jazza: To get humorous articles
published you generally need to
know something embarrassing about
an editor’s past J.C.S.: Village
carpenter quite a bloke, but your
story is only nailed together, not
dovetailed... .T.E.J.; Sad and savage,
sad and savage Z.V.W.: Those
opossum-trappers again!.... J.L.:
Maybe she got something out of
smacking his face, but we didn’t
E.W.: “Journey to Light” might
appeal to some benighted contem-
porary 1.H.: Liked your Adjutant,
but he’s not a short story D.N.:
“Dead Man’s Shoes” was a good
idea —but what have you done with it?


There’s
n 0 friend
like an p
friend
v J
SCOTLAND
Scots GJhisky
lBo7>i tV<kNi«
The nomels.
(ITOxlliun's
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
Mo Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
band when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARKERS DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26j), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
The uuhiskij ls_
(fafeoS>
KI IV mom SAFE!
SANDERS!
mm
Correspondence. Invoice*,
stotement*. etc.. Clod in the
’'Sander*'* can be securely
bound and converted into a
ported book of reference a»
the end of each month —or
any other period.
J’flte* and Inr-
thmr information
*poa application
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Diitrib*ung 4gtntt-~
»YDNE»
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
t>£RtU «
W c. Penfold * Co. Pty. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
• Vardon A Sons Ltd.
. Docket Book Co (Ansi.)
F
*
ei
••
I i
.
■v;
r *
There are times which call for
something better than the merely
very good, and demand
the unquestionable best, Where
cigarettes are concerned the man
of taste is guided by the
words (i ßenson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London ”, From
this famous address comes fine
tobacco perfection to satisfy all those
occasions when only the best will do.
In
tins of 20
3/-
i w
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KING
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Bexson Zj Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
-
RIGHT FOR LIFE with
a Swan, a truly magnificent
pen clean in performance,
handsome in design with a
nib to suit every hand. At
all jewellers, stationers and
•tores. From 30/- to 89/6.
SWAN
PENS
SWAN
DF
INKS
BREWED not merely mixed
4 brilliant colour* and the
famous blue-blackl Swan Ink*
are clear and free-flowing, and
do not fade} thicken or corrode.
MABIE TODD (aust.) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY
*/«»•
UHCABLED
ADDITIONS
“RIGHT” TO STRIKE.
A “Saturday Evening Post”
article by an Ohio lawyer,
Samuel J. Kornhauser, has
special application in present
strike-damaged Australia, the
writer questioning “the mischiev-
ous doctrine” of “the right to
strike” and the “air of sanctity”
with which it “has become en-
dowed.”
Noting that “All labor legis-
lation has been based on the
premise that the right to strike
is untouchable, although the
right to strike usually nullifies
the right to work,” the writer
comments:
“Most people agree that wage-
earners must have safeguards
against exploitation by avarici-
ous employers, but it does not
follow that this object can be
attained only by allowing them
to redress their grievances by
force at the expense of every-
body else When strikes
paralyse transportation, com-
munication or the distribution
of food, they become nothing
less than insurrections.”
To outlaw strikes without en-
suring equitable treatment of
wage-earners, he allows, would
be merely to fly from one evil
to another. However, “In other
controversies, the parties go, as
a matter of course, to the estab-
lished judicial tribunal to have
their rights adjudicated. Then
they abide by the result.” He
holds that wage disputes should
likewise be brought under
authority, with a code carefully
drawn up defining the rights and
obligations of employers and em-
ployees. Such a code might not
at first meet all contingencies,
but definitions could be laid
down with sufficient definiteness
to enable courts to determine
justly the basic controversies:
“Suppose it were provided by
law that an employer was re-
quired to pay the highest wages
his business could afford, having
due regard for returns to man-
agement and investors, reserves
for suitable maintenance, re-
placements, expansion and other
factors, including wages paid in
his and other industries. Obvi-
ously, management must be left
free to apply its knowledge to
determine these requirements,
subject to the qualification that
the allowances made are reason-
able in the light of honest busi-
ness practice. It would be fatal
to leave such matters to the
whims of bureaucrats. On the
other hand, the employer could
not justly complain if the law
prescribed judicial examination
to determine whether he had
acted in good faith.
“A finding would then be
made either that the employer
had sufficient ground for refusing
to grant higher wages, or that
the men were entitled to what
they asked, or, more probably,
that both were in error. The
decision would be subject to re-
view by higher courts. Mean-
while, there would be no strikes,
lockouts or boycotts, no interrup-
tion of production or wages.
Strikes would become as obsolete
as duelling
“Labor leaders might declare
that this would mean enslave-
ment of the workers. Actually,
a law to bar strikes is no more
an infringement of legitimate
freedom than a law against
assault and battery. And a law
requiring an employer to com-
pensate his employees on a basis
fairly consonant with the con-
ditions of his business and
general conditions in his locality
is no more a trespass on his
legitimate freedom than a safety-
appliance law.”
“Directed” Workers.
What is put up with in some
democracies in war-time as an
extreme necessity complete
Government control of and
directing of manpower—is, of
course, even more a part of the
Soviet and Soviet-satellite pat-
tern than it was of Hitler’s war-
preparing Germany. The extent
of it in the satellite Balkans is
indicated by a few paragraphs
from a long survey sent from
Belgrade by the N, Y. “Times”
•correspondent there:
“The structural changes have
been accomplished so rapidly in
Eastern Europe that in a coun-
try such as Yugoslavia one can
say that the era of the individual
man has already ended. This
era has been succeeded by the
‘directed’ man. Manpower is
used by the State where it is
most needed to further the cause
of Socialism.
“The element of free choice of
location or occupation has been
reduced to a minimum because
States which have ambitious five-
year industrial plans and lack
the industrial power to achieve
them with machines must rely
on manpower. Therefore, man-
power is the most precious com-
modity today in Eastern Europe.
The low standard of efficiency
and the lack of machinery oblige
the regimes of Eastern Europe
,to achieve their projects by
drenching jobs with manpower.
Manpower direction is the order
of the day in Eastern Europe,
and it affects men and women
equally.”
Also, “The Eastern European
regimes have been obliged to
draw heavily on students, who go
out on construction jobs by the
hundreds of thousands each
spring. The process of enlisting
these youngsters has been facili-
tated by the youth organisations.
These organisations have become
a fundamental feature in Eastern
Europe.”
Soviet Manchuria.
Pointing out that Manchuria
has been the focus of Russian
interest in East Asia for more
than 50 years, N. Y. “Times”
editorially comments:
“It is the key to Russian
policy, and without proper re-
gard for its importance many
of the Soviet actions would
seem meaningless. The plan for
world revolution may be nebu-
lous ; the status of Mao Tze-
tung may be controversial; but
the Soviet programme to take
over control of Manchuria is
clear, present and logical.
“Manchuria is the big prize in
the present East Asiatic give
and take, just as access to it was
the prize in the Russo-Japanese


FOR A GOOD DAY’S SHOOTING
a
m
Wy/m
w:
vr
:ri
M|
Jm
jm
Wise shooters prefer ELEY-KYNOCH
shotgun cartridges.
To ensure a full bag, ask your
storekeeper for hard-hitting,
clean killing ELEY-KYNOCH
cartridges ... they’re
100% reliable.
ICI
EiIY’KYNOCH
S&ofyH*,
CARTRIDGES
:al industries
OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW
DF
D
FD
war almost half a century ago.
It was the springboard for
Japan’s programme of conquest.
It was the ruling consideration
at Yalta It was and is the
reason for the Soviet policy in
respect to Northern Korea. To
the Russians, as to the Chinese,
it is the most valuable stake in
Asia.....
“The future of Manchuria is
not a question of conflicting
ideologies. It is a question of
old-fashioned ‘imperialist’ snatch
and grab, and in that respect
the position of Russia hasn’t
changed materially in half a
century.”
Communism v .
Religions.
How historically important
was the Vatican’s July 13 decree
of excommunication for Catho-
lics who are willing Communist
followers is probably most
pointedly indicated by reference
to the high proportion of Catho-
lics in the populations of Soviet
satellite countries, though that
decree obviously is having its
effects elsewhere as well.
Figures quoted from recent
official sources by N. Y.
“Times” puts the proportion in
Czechoslovakia at 69.8 per
cent.; Hungary, 74.8 per cent.;
Poland —after Italy, the most
Catholic country in Continental
Europe—9l per cent.
Poland, too, has the numbers
as well as the percentage propor-
tion. “Polish Catholics,” says
N. Y. “Times,” “account for
almost half the Vatican’s follow-
ing in the satellite nations of
Eastern Europe. Noted for their
special loyalty to the Mother
Church, they outnumber Polish
Communist-party members by
more than 20 to 1,”
The opposing forces are thus
summarised: “In this struggle
the Vatican has on its side
spiritual power over the Polish
millions, backed by the ban of
excommunication. The Com-
munists have behind them all
the temporal power that can be
exerted through the machinery
of the State.” The relative
power of those forces is now
in process of being tested.
The issue in the whole con-
flict is thus summarised by
George E. Sokolsky, in N. Y.
“Sun”:
“It does not appear that
during our generation the issue
is the invasion of the authority
of the State by the Church, as
it is that the State is occupying
the Church and making of it
an instrument of the State. It
is not a question of rendering
unto Qesar the things which are
Caesar’s, but rather that Caesar
takes all and calls himself God.
In the neo-paganism which goes
by so many different names, the
battle is against the concept that
man in his moral phases trans-
cends the power of the State be-
cause his responsibility is to the
unknowable, intangible, un-
punishable, unkillable God. That
concept irritates the rulers of
men who have been thrown up
by war and revolution and who
rule in fear and by terror.”
In another article Sokolsky
emphasises that it is wrong to
assume that Communists oppose
only Roman Catholics. “They
also oppose Protestants, Jews as
a religion, Moslems and any
other peoples who believe in
God, in the revelation of truth
by God, in testaments describing
God’s truth, in a moral law
based upon God’s revelation, in
any immutable, eternal, moral
and ethical way of life not sub-
ject to the fatalism of environ-
ment, and not constantly chang-
ing in a never-ending struggle for
survival. Those who believe in
God’s truth are enemies of
Marxism and are to pe de-
stroyed
“The entire Marxist political,
economic and social system falls
if the Christian system stands.
A morality based upon God’s
revealed word cannot be accepted
by those who must insist that
morality is a product of a
struggle in a changing environ-
ment. A system which demands
that the individual subject him-
self totally to the authority of a
self-constituted and self-perpetu-
ating State cannot accept moral
law as a basis for personal con-
duct. Nor can the ‘inalienable
rights’ of the individual man
exist in a world based solely
upon class struggle, upon the
conflict of economic groups,
upon a materialistic strife for die
ownership of the tools of produc-
tion and distribution.”
Also on the theme that per-
secution is not restricted to
Catholics, Chicago “Tribune”
shows that it is not confined to
the satellite countries, either:
“What is less well known is that
the liquidation of all religions is
proceeding with an even greater
fury of persecution within
Russia itself. A calculated State
— N. Y. “Herald Tribune.”
THE THINKER.
campaign of anti-Semitism has
been in operation for months. A
Moslem religious leader from
Soviet Central Asia reached
Cairo with the account of how
the Stalinist despotism has been
conducting a purge of Moslems
ever since the end of the war.
He said that in three Soviet Re-
publics concerning which he had
information there were virtually
no Moslem inhabitants left.
“The evidence of Soviet anti-
Semitism has been arriving in the
outside world in many forms.
Every publication coming out of
Russia carries venomous de-
nunciations of Jewish scholars,
scientists, historians, dramatists,
actors, writers and economists.
The general line is that they are
‘homeless cosmopolitans’ guilty
of ‘national nihilism’ and ‘fawn-
ing before foreign things.’
Official and unofficial barriers to
the employment of Jews in gov-
ernment and in schools and uni-
versities have appeared.”
Adding that similar activities
are in progress in all of the
Soviet satellite States, the
“Tribune” sees the evidence from
all sides as indicating that the
Soviet view on religion as a force
to be opposed has now reached
a stage where still more drastic
action is to be taken.
Too-low Rents.
On a phenomenon of the pre-
sent that can’t be held peculiar
to Britain —that today “most
house tenants enjoy the unusual
privilege of paying too little
rent” —London “Times” editori-
ally points out that in Britain
rents are kept “artificially low”
for municipal tenants by public
subsidies of £25,000,000 a year,
and for far more numerous other
tenants by the freezing of rents
at their 1939 level.
tlie result noted is that “ten-
ants are becoming accustomed
to a false standard of values in
matters of housing”:
“The process has not gone so
far as in France, where even
humbly-placed families are still
able to spend more on tobacco
than on rent, and dwellings are
literally falling to pieces because
landlords cannot pay for re-
pairs ; but it has gone far enough
to be dangerous, and the raising
of controlled rents, which is
bound to come soon, will
certainly provoke widespread
complaints of hardship.”
The “Times’s” finding is that
many such complaints will be
justified, since some families
can’t afford the full economic
rent of decent homes without
genuine hardship, with the health
and welfare of children in-
volved. Its prescription is that
deserving families should them-
selves be subsidised sufficiently
to enable them to meet the dif-
ference, the means apparently to
come out of social-service funds.
Socialised Peanuts.
By the “plan” announced in
February, 1947, the British
Labor Government was to
finance and develop peanut
farms on a typically grandiose
scale in Kenya, Northern
Rhodesia and Tanganyika.
The scheme originally adopted
in this British Socialist adapta-
tion in Africa of Soviet collec-
tivist farming was to clear
about 3,000,000 acres of bush at
a capital cost of about
£25,000,000 over a period of
six years, an early result to be
the harvesting of peanuts at the
rate of 600,000 tons a year by
1950.
Recently back from visiting
the principal scene of operations
at Kongwa, House of Commons
member John Barlow states in
a London “Times” letter that
the Overseas Food Corporation
now recognises that the original
scheme was quite unworkable.
After two years’ work, the
writer adds, the land cleared is
not much more than 100,000
acres, and probably about
£25,000,000 the original
Socialist estimate for the entire
completed scheme! —has already
been spent.
London “Daily Mail” has
commented on this British
Socialist Government effort;
“Everything that could go
wrong in East Africa has gone
wrong ; they forgot the tractors
and the transport; they forgot
to test the soil, the rainfall and
the nature of the local bush.”
London “Daily Telegraph” has
pointed the moral; “You should
not bite off more than you can
chew and try to chew it with the
false teeth of Socialist doctrine.”
Dragnet Digest.
Radioactive Pharaohs. —A plank
from an ancient Egyptian tomb, of
one whose death is provisionally
placed at 3300 8.C., is being sub-
jected to a test for radioactivity. The
British Museum experts conducting
the experiment hope thereby to be
able to determine the real age of the
tomb, and thus end one of the great
controversies of Egyptology the
precise dating of the Egyptian royal
tombs and the early dynasties. The
selected plank, according to a Lon-
don “Times” Cairo correspondent,
is a still-solid piece of timber, giving
“little outward indication of its great
age.”
* * * *
Octopus U.N.O. —If size counts for
anything, U.N.O. leaves the old
League of Nations at the starting-
gate. A visitor to the old H.Q. at
Geneva has reported in N. Y.
“Times” that, grandiose and huge as
that structure seems, it “would not
suffice for even a temporary home
for the present organisation. It is
not big enough to accommodate one
.branch of the U.N., the World
Health Organisation, which is sta-
tioned there.” “You must remem-
ber,” one delegate there told the
visitor, “the old League was a small
body compared to this octopus
The danger is that the U.N., as it
becomes top-heavy, will be absorbed
in [its own] mechanism, and forget
its purpose.”
* * * *
Abducted Greek Children. —Just
how many of them other bordering
countries may be holding is not
known, but a London “Times” letter-
writer quotes an official Belgrade
publication on the number of Greek
children abducted to Yugoslavia by
the Communist rebels. As the Yugo-
slav Communist jargon puts it:
“Eleven thousand six hundred Greek
children, who fled from the terror of
the Greek Monarcho-Fascists, are
being cared for in Yugoslavia.”
* * *
Britain’s Costs Problem. —All re-
sponsible British sources are agreed
that costs of British goods must be
brought down to meet the “buyer’s
market,” but the Spartan way of wage
cuts is regarded as certain to lead to
strikes on a much bigger scale than
those Britain has lately had. Mean-
while, one of the chief grounds
argued in America for the tightening
of U.S. purse-strings is that Uncle
Sam is merely subsidising the un-
economically high wages which no
political party in Britain dares to
touch. As well, “U.S. News and
World Report” expresses widely-made
American complaint in stating: “Out-
put of the British worker, hour for
hour, in many industries still is low
compared to the output of German
workers, very low by U.S. standards.
Speed-up, increased efficiency by
harder work and better methods, isn’t
popular with British workmen.”
* * * *
Wheat Abundance. Latest air-
mailed report on the already-noted
looming big U.S. wheat surplus re-
peats that storage facilities are likely
to prove inadequate and quotes grain-
traders as declaring that the only
factor that can prevent a severe
decline in prices is the U.S. Govern-
ment’s guarantee to farmers. Con-
tinued improvement in Europe’s pro-
duction convinces some that the U.S.
export goal of 450,000,000 bushels is
unlikely to be reached, and that the
U.S. carryover is likely to exceed
400.000. bushels.
* * * ♦
German-Jap Resurgence. —Former
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State
Rogers, forecasting in a New York
speech the resurgence of a strong
Germany and Japan in a relatively
short tune: “All through history
powerful and industrious defeated
peoples have recovered amazingly in
almost a handful of years. Germany
and Japan are industrious. Five or
ten years from now we will look back
on our present preoccupation with
Russia as another of our shortsighted
foreign policies.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
H.C. of Government. —Whatever
consolation they may get out of it,
Australians haven’t this bloated incu-
bus on their own. A report by the
Hoover Commission of inquiry into
such things in the U.S. states that in
1913 the cost of all American govern-
ment, Federal, State and local, was
about $3,000,000,000 a year, of which
the Federal Government spent about
a quarter; it’s now up to a total of
$55,000,000,000 a year, of which the
Federal Government spends nearly
three-quarters. In 1913 the rake-in
was $32 a year per head of the
92.000. people; for the present
140.000. it’s $392 a year per head.
♦ ♦ * *
Cheaper Radar. A London
“Times” report indicates that British
inventiveness is overcoming die prin-
cipal deterrent to wider use of radar
as a navigational aid and anti-colli-
sion device at sea; that deterrent
being cost. New British equipment
cuts capital charges and installation
and maintenance costs by half. “As
a result of this development, which
is the work of the Decca Navigator
Company, Ltd., there seems good
reason to hope that British radar will
become the most widely used at sea.”
* * * *
Threat to Living Standards. —Men-
tioning that Britain is not alone in
this, that “no other large Western
European country is anywhere near
being able to support its present stan-
dard of life by what it earns,” a
writer in N- Y, “Herald Tribune” con-
cludes that, therefore, “the basic
choice is a bigger American subsidy
continued for a longer time, or a
reduction in the standard of life in
Western Europe.” The U.S. might
not be able to prevent a reduction,
but it probably can “cushion the
shock” and would have a “high in-
terest” in doing so: “This struggle
is a terrible test of free institutions.
And while we may have confidence
and faith that the British and the
Scandinavians with their long ex-
perience of freedom can meet the
test, who could dare to hope that
the Germans, to take the hardest case,
can and will meet it?”


SINCE 1847
FDFDF
MAKERS
'OF GOOD WIN!
FOR MORE THAN
A CENTURY
PERSONAL ITEM S
If Captain John Protheroe Williams
can’t refloat the freighter Time, which
last week went up on Corsair Reef at
the Port Phillip entrance, it won’t be
much use sending for anyone else. Sal-
vaging stricken ships from the sub-sur-
face snags of the world’s oceans has been
the captain’s forte for years, and he’s
been chief salvage officer and executive
member of the Commonwealth Marine
Salvage Board since 1941. His value to
the Navy in the last war was enormous.
His biggest job, however, was done for
the Bank of England, when, with deep-
sea diver Jim Johnson, he released
£2,396,000-worth of bullion from the grip
of 438 ft. of water into which a mine
plunged the Niagara off New Zealand.
A master-mariner himself, Williams was
born in that cradle of British seamen,
Hull. He is managing-director of
United Salvage Pty., Ltd., and United
Gold Recoveries, companies whose ad-
venturous operations have already filled
a couple of books. He’s 55.
About-town in Sydney and Melbourne
The Bulletin and “Billy” (W. T.) Albert
have had an inseparable association in
the minds of a host of people, even during
the 13 years in which Billy represented
The Bulletin in London and New York.
He returned from the U.S.A. on long
leave earlier this year, and is now retiring
after 30 years in Bulletin service, the
first 17 of them in its advertising depart-
ment. Born in a N. S. Wales country
town, Billy Albert sold advertising space
for “The Land” before joining The
Bulletin. An outstanding advertising
man, he was founder of the Inch Club
in Sydney, and his life in the newspaper
world coincided with that period when
pictorial display-advertising and the auto-
mobile developed (almost in double-
harness) from the tentative and experi-
mental to their present-day colorful mag-
nificence. Great days full of interesting
personalities and events to look back
oyer; and Billy will enjoy doing that.
Colonel Rufus Ramey, new U.S.
Military Attach 6 in Melbourne, was one
of Mark Clark’s Fifth Army staff-men in
the Italian campaign, in which capacity
he was in at the nasty Anzio beachhead
affair. North of Rome he commanded
Ramey’s Task Force, as a one-star general
(he reverted to his present permanent
rank after the war), and fought alongside
British troops. Short, at 55 still nippy,
and a ready laugher, he owns to 35 years
in his country’s Army, and a load of ex-
perience, ranging from infantryman and
artilleryman in the Kaiser’s war to
cavalryman and general staff member in
the next. At the start of the latter his
job was mechanising the U.S. Army s
cavalry school in Kansas; afterwards,
reorganising the National Guard, counter-
part of our Militia. One of Ramey s sons
is in the Army—another was shot down
in a fighter over Okinawa.
“Lao-dah” on an exploder:
I see that my old friend Frederic Wood-
Jones, Professor of Comparative Anatomy m
the Royal College of Surgeons and one-time
Professor of Anatomy in Melbourne, is still
debunking. This time it is the alleged death-
mask of John Keats, in the Keats Museum at
Hampstead. After careful examination he
declared the mask was of a live, not a dead,
person, and of an old woman, not a young
man —probably of the poet’s sister Fanny,
whose great-granddaughter donated it in good
faith. A dead person’s muscles are more
relaxed than a live un’s, because the clay puts
the latter into an acute state of nervous tension
—l’ve had my own visage perpetuated. And
the weight of the clay alters contours. Wood-
Jones, who married one of the Ross family ot
Cocos atoll, has spent his life debunking
accepted notions. While on Cocos he reversed
Darwin’s idea of the formation of coral
islands, framed by Darwin on the same islands;
in the’ U.S. he proved that some old bones,
alleged to show that the U.S. was humanity’s
cradle, were those of a coyote; in Adelaide he
built a model to demonstrate how a kangaroo
brings joey into the world, to contravene the
bushman’s notion that it is born in the pouch;
and he showed, to the surprise of jail-heads in
Ireland and Australia, that hanged men dont
have their necks broken but are strangled (he
devised a knot which he claimed would achieve
the objective). Wood-Jones has phenomenal
powers of observation; he thought that nobody
lacking them would make an anatomist. At
viva voce examinations he would ask the
student: “What route do you take to the
university every day?” “Swanston-street, sir.’
“Name the hotels you pass on that route.”
Since his retirement three years ago,
H. M. Green, who was Sydney Univer-
sity’s Fisher Librarian for 25 years, has
been living at Glenbrook (N.S.W.), re-
writing and bringing up to date his An
Outline of Australian Literature ; pub-
lished in 1930. The first comprehensive
survey of Australian writing, it remained
the sole reliable authority on the subject
until Morris Miller published his Aus-
tralian Literature in 1940. As a student,
Green was a consistent winner of Sydney
University prizes. He was admitted as a
barrister but did not practise ; instead, he
joined the staffs of “S. M. Herald” and
Sydney “Daily Telegraph.” Poet as well
as literary critic, he has two books of
verse to his credit and has made a special
study of the poems of Chris Brennan.
Always a busy man, Green never spared
himself in helping students and young
writers in need of advice and practical
encouragement.
In Professor N. F. Astbury, the new
Sydney University of Technology has
bagged a war-time Admiralty scientist for
its Chair of Applied Physics. When
British harbors were being made ready
to receive the landing-craft of the
Reichsmarine, Astbury worked on the
booms, electrically-fired mines and other
welcoming devices which lay in sub-
surface waiting. Later he led the
extremely-competent team of back-
room boys which, designing the Navy's
acoustic weapons, played its part in beat-
ing the life out of the U-boat menace.
The war over, he continued his research
with a large group of British engineering
industries.
From Rhodes Scholar to head of
Sydney’s Newington College (at 36, its
youngest) in 14 years is the smart record
of Mervyn Austin, at present lecturer in
Greek at St. Andrew’s University, Scot-
land. A Melbourne Church of England
Grammar product, he left that city’s uni-
versity with first-class honors in classical
philology, and headed for Oxford on his
Rhodes Scholarship in 1935. The alert-
faced new head is used to moving fast —
in Hitler’s war he flew Mosquitoes from
England.
As he is pictured here by Prior, John
Hunter of the Kiwis is a superimposed
personality ; a blase and worldly character
imposed on the frank, eager and cheerful
chap he is normally. Too young to be
in the last scrap, he joined the show in
Maoriland, after ballet and night-club
work in Auckland. The women-envied
HIS LADYSHIP, JOHN HUNTER.
dresses he wears hide the whipcord body
of the trained ballet-dancer. Twelve years
ago he studied that art from Madame
Valeska, who had trained Pavlova.
Hunter is equally at home in ballet, drama
(his Noel Coward’s “Private Lives” is
superbly done), comedy or tap-dancing,
but his abiding aim is straight dramatic
acting in London. For the present he
lifts mere impersonation to the plane of
pure artistry. Off-stage he keeps fit with
tennis and potters at interior-decorating.
In this Mclntyre sketch of Sir Donald
Cameron, Mayor of Scotchbyterian
Dunedin (M.L.), the smile is probably
accounted for by its owner having heard
that the freedom of the City of Edinburgh
had been conferred on him, with all that
that implies to a Scotsman. Sir Andrew
Murray, Edinburgh’s Lord Provost, was
responsible for the honor, granted in re-
cognition of its recipient’s high personal
qualities and the ties of friendship and
kinship uniting the two “Edins” —Dunedin
being old Gaelic for Edinburgh. Sir
Donald, knighted last year on the
occasion of the centennial of Otago, at
HIS WORSHIP, DONALD CAMERON.
which Sir John Falconer, another Lord
Provost, represented Auld Scotia, has
an ample share of the sagacity of his
race; he joined the farm-implement firm
of Reid and Grey in 1891, and retired in
1937 —as chairman of directors. He will
sample the fruits of his new honor dur-
ing his present visit to Edinburgh for its
great musical festival.
Raymond O’Connell, appointed Pro-
fessor of Pianoforte at the Elder Con-
servatorium, Adelaide, is one of Aus-
tralia’s most brilliant musical products.
Leaving Australia 10 years ago he climbed
the scales so quickly that by 1940 he
was one of the leading pupils at the
Royal College of Music, London. That
year he won the Hopkinson gold-medal
for piano-playing and the Dannreuther
prize, awarded for the year’s best con-
certo performance. Next year he won the
Chappell gold-medal—the highest award
at the Royal College in his division.
New seagoing head of the Australian
Fleet, Rear-Admiral J. A. S. Eccles,
C.8.E., R.N., will be on familiar deck
when he hoists his two-balled flag in
carrier Sydney. In the last scrap he com-
manded fleet-carrier Indomitable, whose
planes first hit the Japs when Somerville’s
Eastern Fleet lambasted Sabang, and
then, under Admiral Vian, pasted them
from the Philippines northward. Much
of Eccles’s time after World War I, in
the opening stages of which he joined the
Service, was spent in Japanese waters,
where he did an uncommonly good rescue
job in the 1923 earthquake —it earned
him the “appreciation of the Lords Com-
missioners of the Admiralty.” While
there he learned Japanese, well enough to
rate him a qualified interpreter, and, as
well, enough judo to make him the only
European to hold a Japanese champion-
ship in that heavyweight art. Both Fleets
in the east are now commanded by giants
—Brind, of the Far East Station, is 6ft.
Sin.; Eccles, about 6ft. 2in. Now 51,
Eccles carries with his size a trap-jawed
face to match, and is one of the most
courteous of men.
It is not given to many officers of the
Silent Service to receive great public
ovations; Rear-Admiral Farncomb, just
relieved as Flag Officer, Australian Fleet,
will never forget his. When the Prince
of Wales visited Melbourne in the
Renown, in 1920, destroyer Anzac was
deputed to go alongside in the Bay, take
the Prince aboard and deliver him to the
waiting thousands on the pier. Up slid
Anzac, with a slight figure in uniform
standing in splendid isolation in the bows.
The crowd sighted him and cheered to
the echo. It was a very embarrassed
Lieutenant Farncomb who shattered the
Royal illusion by performing his com-
paratively lowly duties of foc’s’le officer.
The Prince was on the bridge.
Activities of the British Council, to
which Australians are indebted for the
Oliviers, the Boyd Neels and the Ballet
Rambert, aren’t all in the one direction;
there’s a return traffic also, as part of
which Sydney architect Adrian Ashton
left recently for Britain, where he will be
the guest of the council for three
months. One of the third generation of
the James Ashton art dynasty, Adrian is
president of the N.S.W. Chapter of the
Royal Australian Institute of Architects,
and was foundation president of the
National Trust of Australia, formed for
the preservation of historic buildings and
natural beauty spots. In England he will
study developments in housing and town-
planning, and also the activities of the
British National Trust. He carries to the
Savage Club fraternal greeting from the
Sydney Savages; he’s their secretary.
It is 50 years since Vida Goldstein,
who has passed on in Melbourne, first
hit the headlines. She had been running
a co-education school at St. Kilda, a very
unconventional thing for those days, and
in 1899 she took over leadership of the
Victorian women’s suffrage movement.
Women having won the vote in Federal
politics, she went to the U.S., where
skirted delegates from nine nations made
her secretary of the first international
conference of the militant female. Back
in Australia she formed the Women’s
Political Association, and, Victorian
women having wrested the right to a
State vote from their male oppressors,
she stood for the State House and was
defeated. She was twice defeated later
in Federal elections, but at least she had
the distinction of being the first woman
in the Empire to stand for Parliament.
She ran her own weekly paper, and one of
her articles was the inspiration for Mr.
Justice Higgins in framing his “Harvester”
judgment, which started the basic wage.
Her most positive achievements were the
abolition of imprisonment for children
under seven and the manifesto she wrote
which was made the basis of the
Children’s Court Act.
“Hamfat”: Besides being Australia’s
No. 1 flautist, John Lemmone, who has
passed on in Sydney, managed the Melba
concert tours. As well, he introduced
such singers as Marie Narelle, Eva My-
lott and Mabel Bachelor. One bleak
night at Bathurst (N.S.W.), when his star
singer was Nellie Mitchell, Lemmone had
to refund the meagre box-office takings
because the house was not worth playing
to: people who had missed the chance
of hearing, at four-bob a head, the
singer who returned from Europe as the
Great Melba were afterwards to journey
to Sydney and pay guineas to hear her.
A widely-liked chap, Lemmone married
one of his protegees, Mabel Bachelor, and
when he retired from entrepreneuring
he became g.-m. of the large furnishing
business of his wife’s father. He
attended his office to within a few months
of the end, op the verge of 90.
Into the Silence:
At 85, D. H. Ross, between 1903-34 Canadian
Trade Commissioner in Australia. He learnt
the export business in Maoriland and extended
it in this country before taking on the com-
missionership. The highlight of a solidly-
competent career was clinching the present
trade agreement with Canada, effected in 1931.
In Adelaide, at 85, Robert Mason, the State’s
G.O.M. of the foundry industry, in which he
had worked for 74 years. His practical know-
ledge of iron and steel metallurgy was fre-
quently used by the Government and by private
firms. Bom in Falkirk (Scotland), he came to
South Australia in 1912, and five years later
opened his own works, of which he was still
managing-director at the end.
At 39 from a yacht he was sailing to Sydney
from Palm Beach (N.S.W.), Arthur Preston,
D F.C., licensee of the liquor-bars at Sydney
Show Ground; he was attending a jammed
rudder when the swinging boom knocked him
overboard. An Empire Air Scheme trainee,
he went to England to pilot bombers over
Germany.
At Echuca (Vic.), ex-sergeant Robert Gray,
who was a young constable stationed at Mans-
field when the Kelly gang were riding He
was one of the police ring which finally
cornered them.
At Suva, at 72, David Amos, for 22 years
g m of the Pacific Insurance Co. till his retire-
ment in 1941. He was an authority on the
mosquito-borne disease filariasis, and led a cam-
paign against it in Fiji, Cook Island and the
Western Pacific.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Presswomen invited to have tea with
Lady Herring came into a Government
House which is having a face-lift.
Lady Herring and Mrs. T. Holl-
way have spent a lot of time viewing
carpets and arranging to have threadbare
pieces removed and the left-overs cut up
and placed in smaller rooms. Previous
Governors have brought their own furni-
ture to augment that already in G.H., but
its removal at the end of the term of
office left many gaps. Lady Herring has
unearthed from the basement many pieces
of cedar, mahogany and heavy walnut as
well as some dainty Regency chairs, and
these will be put into use. But even with
these gestures towards refurnishing, there
is still an air of makeshift about the place.
Lady Brooks, the new Governor’s lady,
will furnish her own suite and private
drawing-room, and it’s to be hoped the
Brooks family are strong and hardy,
otherwise they’ll freeze to death next
winter. Apparently there isn’t enough
money in the Treasury to install such
modern comforts as central-heating.
Sponsored by the Melbourne After-
Care Hospital, Sister Margaret Gullick,
from one of the children’s wards, has
entered the Miss Australia Quest. Mrs.
Marchant Penfold is honorary organiser
of Sister Gullick’s campaign. President of
the candidate’s committee is Mrs. F. E.
Shillabeer, and members of the com-
mittee indude Lady Lowe, Mesdames
George Simpson, W. H. Craig, E. G.
Goldnng, Marcus Bell, S. F. Rowell, and
the Misses A. Peters and G. Turner.
For her wedding at St. Mark’s Church,
Camberwell, to Alan Douglas Me-
Cutcheon, Joan Elizabeth, elder daughter
of Mrs. Mackay, of Balwyn, and the late
Dr. John Mackay, wore a gown of white
Chantilly lace over slipper-satin. The
fitted bodice had. long sleeves tapering to
the wrists and a little pointed collar ; the
full skirt finished in a train bound in
satin. Gardenias caught the long tulle
veil, and the bouquet of gardenias she
carried was set in a silver filigree holder,
which has been in the family over 100
years. Mary Mackay was her sister’s
bridesmaid; her bouffant frock was of
ivory marquisette over old-gold slipper-
satin. The posy of primroses she carried
matched the curvette in her hair. The
bridegroom, who is the only son of Dr.
and Mrs. Alan McCutcheon, had Arthur
Bunbury as best man, lan McVey and
Finlay Lush were ushers at the church.
The bride was given away by her uncle,
Mr. Alec Mackay, of Launceston. Canon
Robinson officiated. The reception was
held at the Hotel Windsor.
For the spring fashions accent seems
to be on accessories. Fashion’s latest
decrees are unusual, to say the least.
Women are invited to pin an enamel in-
sect on a fresh ivy-leaf for a lapel orna-
ment, and to fill the large patch-pocket
set on a smart afternoon frock of black
tfffeta with fresh daisies and carnations,
bhort chopped-off gloves are billed to
accompany the strapless evening dress,
bhort green moire or pink satin gloves,
designers say, look heavenly with white
satin or faille gowns. Further entice-
ments are: to sew a feather bird to the
strap of evening sandals, tuck a large
yellow cabbage-rose into the V-neck of
a black taffeta or crepe frock, attach a
flower to one bare shoulder with cello-
phane tape, when a strapless evening gown
is worn, wind one or two sashes high
around the waist and fasten them with a
jewelled buckle. Blue and white will be
popular. Christian Dior, as adapted by
Douglas Cox, makes an exciting navy
frock and adds wide-winged white pique
flaps to a neckline. Dark dresses have
caramel-toned accessories. Gloves, hat
and bag are in a creamy tan. With
greige, chocolate-toned accessories are the
smartest. For the cloche hat in choco-
late-toned straw gloves and bag must be
m the same tonings. Dior decrees that
dresses will be 15in. from the floor;
most evening gowns, with the exception
of those in the grand manner, are as
short as day dresses. The floating panel
over a tight underskirt is new, and narrow
skirts are opened at one seam to give
case in walking. Colored shoes are back
again. Red shoes with a navy ensemble
is a smart note, and hat and gloves are
in chamois beige. Plain court shoes or
shoes with many straps add glamor. Heels
are medium and the baby-Louis heel is
in again.
Otto Klemperer was tumultuously ac-
claimed after he had piloted the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra through a
magnificent performance of Beethoven’s
Seventh Symphony at the Town Hall.
Mrs. Klemperer, in a black gown embel-
lished with multicolored sequins, sat
With Bonnie McCallum. Mrs. Rudolf
Schock was there with the Conrad Chari-
tons. Recently-returned Vivienne Kin-
near was in a small party which included
the George Mitchells, Pat McPhee (who
has just announced her engagement) and
Mr. and Mrs. Ross Stable. Injuries re-
ceived while on a ski-ing holiday didn’t
stop Marjorie Byron Moore from going.
Mrs. Paddy Moran was in black, a swoop
of ospreys flying from her attractive hat.
Dorrie O’Neill wore black-and-white
florals,
Jacqueline, only daughter of Dr. and
Mrs. N. Dennerstein, South Yarra, has
announced her engagement to Russell
Langley, only son of the John Langleys,
of Aspendale. Russell, who graduated
in medicine at the Melbourne Uni., is at
present doing post-graduate work at the
Sydney Uni. He came over for the
family dinner given by Dr. and Mrs.
Dennerstein at Giro’s to celebrate the
happy occasion. Jacqueline, who is an
old St. Catherine’s girl, is doing Arts at
Melbourne ’Varsity.
Mrs. D. J. Reddan, of Toorak (known
to her intimates as Girlie), manages to
run her home capably, play tennis at the
South Yarra Club, be an active member
of the English-Speaking Union and also
an amateur actress in great demand. She
has appeared in many plays produced
at the Little Theatre, the Melbourne
Repertory and the Pilgrim Theatre. She
will play the role of Susan in the Male
Hoban production of “Susan and God,”
which opens its season at the Union
Theatre on September 6, proceeds of
which will go to the E.-S.U.’s English
Fair. Box plans are now open at
Ronalds Central* Collins-street, and the
ticket-secretary is Mrs. C. W. McKay
(UY5769). The E.-S.U. fair will be held
on November 26. Photo by Ritter-
Jeppesen.
For her farewell concert in the Town
Hall Joan Hammond wore a lovely
gown of white triple ninon with flowing
shoulder drape and pleated side-panel
caught by silver-sequin embroidery. The
big audience included Mrs. L. R. Bux-
ton, whose gown was of brown self-
patterned velvet; Lady Hyde, her black
frock worn under silver foxes; Mrs.
Eccles McKay, wearing scarlet gloves and
matching posy with her black gown,
which was covered with a dyed-ermine
cape; Mrs. Ken McLean in black lace ;
Helen Goff in black skirt and black-
and-white embroidered bodice; and Mrs.
John X. O’Driscoll, who topped her
black frock and blue-fox jacket with a
jewelled velvet snood.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll heaped the
festive-board for members of her enter-
tainments committee of the Vera Scantle-
bury Brown Memorial 1 Appeal in the
foyer of the Princess at the close of the
meeting at which she presided. Sweepl-
- pheasant feathers adorned her beret
of brown felt which she wore with a tent-
coat. Mrs. Aubrey Gibson was easily dis-
tinguishable in a scarlet-wool coat with
a postillion collar. Mrs. M. Helpmann,
mother of the well-known ballet-dancer
Robert, joined the committee to help with
the gala preview of the National Theatre’s
ballet season, which will be held at the
Princess on September 29. Artist Ken
Rowell has designed the cover for the
souvenir programme, and there will be
a flower- and sweets-stall in the foyer,
with Mesdames J. H. Spiers, Ron Decker
and Max Rorke in command. Tickets are
two guineas, one guinea, ten shillings and
five shillings, and preferential bookings
may be made with the Connelly lady
(BJ 2739), Mrs. Garnet Curwen
(UY5223) Joyce Patton (C 4472) and
Valerie Sloane (BJ 1749).
An Arctic wind made tweed suits a
warm favorite for the M.R.C.’s Anniver-
sary Meeting at Flemington, though a
forecast of spring was seen in many hats.
Mrs, George Hume’s pastel-pink hat had
a neat trimming of clipped feather pom-
pons. Mrs. A. Hambrook’s junior-navy
frock and hip-length jacket were worn
with a small navy-and-white pleated
chiffon hat finished with a wimple of
navy chiffon. Mrs. Michael Kelly’s suit
was hyacinth-blue, her straw hat match-
ing it. Mrs. Les Sangster’s pastel-blue
felt hat had a pixie crown pierced with a
brown quill.
From Sydney
The Morley children, Sheridan (of
course he’s called Sherry) and Annabel
(called Abbey), stole the show at the
party given in their parents’ honor by
J. C. Williamson. During the afternoon
Sherry, fair-haired, pink and white, was
even heard discussing diet in a somewhat
amused manner with Miss Rye, the Eng-
lish producer—possibly one of the young-
est women producers in the Empire.
Easy in clothes, easy in manner and
perfect in diction, Mr, Morley made a
warming impression by not striving
hard to make any. Mrs. Morley,
who had been most of the day at
the Customs attending to the luggage
of her children, who had arrived that
morning in the Aorangi, wore a silk frock
beneath a loose-fitting oatmeal coat for
this cocktail session in the Gloucester-
room. Every woman breathed the sigh
of envy at the sight of the luxurious
sable cape worn by leading lady Sophie
Stewart. Miss Stewart told that she is
really known in England and America
as a comedy actress, though her part in
“Edward, My Son,” in which she will
appear here, is dramatic. She made one
listener chuckle over “Lady from Edin-
burgh,” a comedy in which she starred
for two years in the West End. Wel-
comed by many were Mrs. E. J. Tait,
pretty Bettina Welch, Barrett Fleming,
Lloyd Lamble and the one and only Leslie
Victor.
Mrs. Denis Rowe, pictured here, is one
of the active members of the committee
working for the Town and Country Ball.
This is due at Romano’s on Saturday,
Sept. 24, and as usual will benefit the
Smith Family. The ball is always timed
as a curtain-raiser to spring-race-week
gaieties, and the decorations depict scenes
on the farm. To wipe out expenses of
the big night, the Denis Rowes are lend-
ing their new home in Cliveden, Point
Piper, for a cocktail-party in the grand
manner on September 3. Photograph of
Mrs. Rowe is from Norton Trevaire.
This city has only to have a grey sky
and the National Gallery might just as
well put up the shutters. Much of the
grace and delicacy of the Chinese paint-
ings now being exhibited in the National
Gallery were lost to the audience last
Wednesday afternoon. China’s Consul-
General, Dr. S. Y. Woo, made an in-
teresting opening speech. He told of the
three planes on which his countrymen of
old judged the artist’s work. They were :
(1) The Divine; (2) the Supreme; (3)
the Skilful. Also, he explained some of
the symbolism of the paintings on the
walls. The bamboo, for instance, stood
for courage, integrity and, above all,
modesty,
The paintings have been loaned by Mr.
Randal Robert McDonnell Parr. The
collection was made by his father,
who was Commissioner of the Chinese
Imperial Maritime Customs. Who needs
to be told that exquisite “Writing a Poem
on an Autumn Leaf” is part of a love
story; or that away back about 1700
Tsai Lin found aesthetic pleasure “Fishing
Under the Willow-trees.” Mrs. Geoffrey
Bernays stood muted before the “Peony
Flower” and a painting of “Apple
Blossom.” She wondered longingly if
Authority would let her bring a torch
on a second visit.
Very elegant was Madame Woo, who
accompanied her husband. She wore the
national dress of her country in deep-
blue satin brocaded in silver and pink.
Her cape was of silver fox. Mrs.
Parr, too, gave distinction to the official
group. Her topcoat of French grey cloth
was cut on full and graceful lines. Twisted
strands of wool fell tassel-wise from her
grey hat; her handbag and shoes were of
grey snakeskin. Poet Hugh McCrae
browsed about with daughter Smee —Mrs.
H. Morris. Did “The Carp of Literature”
appeal to him? It seemed to one gazer
like a fish decor to Bacon’s “Reading
Maketh a Full Man.”
And incidentally, if any Ladies’ Pipe
Band believes it was the first to start
something, let its members study artist
Chen Chi’s painting “Ladies’ Musical
Band.”
Baritone Todd Duncan, whose concert
season opens in the Town Hall tonight,
arrived in Sydney during the weekend, a
day or so ahead of his wife, who is
making the Australian journey with him.
News of Eugene Goossens’s triumph at
the Edinburgh Festival reminds that Todd
had an ovation at this Festival in 1947,
on which occasion he was presented to
member's of the Royal family. Last Mon-
day night the “Singers of Australia” held
a reception for Mr. and Mrs. Duncan.
Friends throughout Australia will be
saddened to hear of the death of
sculptress Thecf Cowan. She was the
eldest of three sisters widely known in
the writing and art circles of this city.
Miss Cowan died during the weekend
after a protracted illness. She had studied
sculpture in Italy and in England, and
had met with great success at noted exhi-
bitions in both lands. One of her first
big pieces typified Church, Stage and State.
For this group she had for models the
then Bishop of London, Mrs. Brown
Potter and Gilbert Parker. There is a
graceful example of her early work —a
memorial to a nurse—in the Carapo Santo
close to the Church of San Miniato in
Florence. For two decades she was a
personality in Sydney’s art movements.
She was also an active worker for the
founding of the Edith Gavell Home
after World War I, and during World
War II she did her bit as a very energetic
warden.
One of Sydney’s most popular women
is Mrs, Tom Bateman. A few weeks
ago she decided to give a tea-party for
her women friends. But when she counted
up there were too many for one after-
noon, so she had two parties. And there
were about 70 guests at each. The newly-
decorated Pickwick Club was the scene
of both. At the first kettledrum (one
supposes at the second, also) the assem-
blage was bright with laughter and spring
hats —pastel-toned and flower-trimmed,
these bloomed like a gay garden-border.
The hostess is herself a lawyer (non-
practising). Her dress for the occasion
was not academic. Her smart afternoon
suit with its ankle-length flared skirt was
of black velvet. With it she wore a small
cloche hat of pale jade-green trimmed at
the right side with a drooping spray of
French marguerites. . Her sister, who is
Dr. Gwen Fitz Patrick, not long back in
her home town from study and marriage
in Dublin, wore sleek green tailorings
and a hat touched by spring.
’Teen-age Shirley Fraser, of Cronulla,
sailed for London last Saturday with a
scholarship from the Royal Academy of
Dancing, London, as a letter of introduc-
tion to the big city. The day before she
went off Shirley was given a grand party
in teacher Frances Scully’s studios. It
seethed and simmered on two floors. Tiny
ones who had danced on the programme
floated topside, like so many fluffy clouds
in a hurry, to consume biscuits and milk.
Tea was served with plump, near-cream-
filled sponges, and other indigestibles by
senior pupils, who had insisted on doing
the whole thing themselves. They also
presented Shirley with one of those slung-
over-the-shoulder bags in calfskin.
Teachers Frances Scully and Kathleen
Danetree gave Shirley a French em-
broidered evening-bag, in which was
tucked a cheque from students and
teachers.
There’s a ship of the Argentine lying
in Snail’s Bay, and amid its pleasant sur-
roundings Captain Robert Abad gave a
buffet-dinner on a westerly-stung night
last week. The name Betty Ryan on a
South American ship aroused this writer’s
curiosity. In reply to her query at the
Consulate she learned that Mr. Ryan is
one of an important company of Argen-
tine shipowners, and that Betty is one of
his daughters. The food and wines served
at this party are still being praised, also
fascinating records of rhumbas and
popular South American dance numbers.
The Consul for the Argentine and his
wife were honored guests.
Between 400 and 500 dancers took the
floor at the Wentworth Ballroom to aid
Sydney Hospital. The hospital’s presi-
dent, Sir Norman Paul, and Lady Paul,
who received the Governor and Miss
Northcott, the hospital’s medical super..
Dr. Rose, and Mrs. Rose, Colonel Alfred
Spain and daughter Mrs. Russell were
among the notables. President of the ball
committee, Mrs. J. K. Schartl, and Mrs.
C. R, McKerihan, Mrs. S. S. Blake—her
frock was cobwebby-grey Chantilly over
hibiscus-pink—and Mrs. L, J, Hooker
were among those who had worked hard
towards, the night’s success.


Legal Notice.
ETHEL MARY REIDY Deceased daughter
of Martin Reidy and Mary Reidy (ne'e
Hickey).—PURSUANT to Order of the
Supreme Court of New South Wales in
Equity made in suit No. 20 of 1949 en-
titled “In the matter of the Estate of
Ethel Mary Reidy formerly of Drum-
moyne in the said State N.S.W. Spinster
now deceased Between The Public Trustee
Plaintiff and William Reidy Defendant
whereby the following inquiry was
directed viz. “Who were the persons
entitled according to the Statutes for the
distribution of Intestates’ estates to the
estate of the abovenaaned Ethel Mary Reidy
deceased living at her death and whether
any of them are since dead and if so who
are their legal personal representatives”
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all
persons claiming to be entitled under the
said inquiry are to send by post prepaid
to The Public Trustee 19 O’Connell St.
Sydney N.S.W. so as to reach him on or
before the 25th November 1949 their full
Christian and surnames addresses and de-
scriptions and full particulars of their
claimsi or in default thereof they will be
excluded from the benefit of the said
order unless the Court or Judge thereof
or Master in Equity on application other-
wise orders Claimants are to attend per-
sonally or by their Solicitor before the
Master in Equity at the Supreme Court
Elizabeth Street Sydney on the 13th De-
cember 1949 being the time appointed for
adjudicating upon the claims A claimant
not residing in N.S.W. must send with
particulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in N.S.W. to whom
notice to the claimant can be sent.—■
DATED 10th August, 1949.—CRICHTON-
SMITH, TAYLOR & SCOTT, Plaintiff’s
Solicitors, 30 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Missing Friends.
TO JOSEPH JOHN McCarthy formerly
of 709 Burke Road South Camberwell and
Granville Street Wattle Park in the State
of Victoria but now of parts unknown.—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife MARGERY
McCarthy has instituted proceedings
for a divorce on the ground of desertion
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the
office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court of Victoria at Melbourne on or be-
fore the Twenty-first day of September
One thousand nine hundred and forty-nine
the case may proceed in your absence IF
you intend to defend the suit you must
also file an answer in the said office on
or before the Twenty-ninth day of Sep-
tember One thousand nine hundred and
forty-nine AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that the sealed copy petition
and copy citation in the suit may be in-
spected at the office of the Petitioners
Solicitors, JOAN ROSANOVE AND
LANDAU, 415 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
GERTRUDE Mac DONALD (nee Allen)",
formerly of Barnsley, England, and who
left there approximately 47 years ago.
Will anyone knowing the whereabouts of
the aforesaid Gertrude MacDonald please
communicate with MESSRS. MINTER
SIMPSON & CO., Solicitors, 31 Hunter
Street, Sydney, N.S.W.?
Divorce Notices.
1 THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
D FREDERICK GEORGE HERRINGE
rmerly of O’Donnell Street Port Kembla.
-TAKE NOTICE that GRACE MERLE
ERRINGE has filed a Petition for
ivorce against you No. 1412 of 1949
\ the ground of desertion without just
use or excuse during three years and
iwards If you wish to defend you may
iter an appearance at the Divorce Office
ipreme Court King Street Sydney by the
ith day of November 1949 and obtain a
ipy of the petition without charge from
essrs. B. R. TRACEY & CO., Solicitors,
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J-
-3UGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
I THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
D ARTHUR JAMES BENNETT formerly
Armidale. —TAKE NOTICE that
jSIE MARION BENNETT has filed a
itition for Divorce No. 2137 of 1949 on
e ground of desertion without just cause
• excuse for three years and upwards If
iu wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ice at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
ing Street Sydney on or before the Fourth
ty of November next and obtain a copy
the petition without charge from
ESSRS. BIDDULPH & SMITH, Sob-
tors, Guyra, or their City Agents, MEo-
EURS BIDDULPH & SALENGER, Soh-
tors, Selborne Chambers, 174 Philhp
reet, Sydney.—(l.s.) J. DOUQHAN,
egistrar in Divorce.
THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
COLIN CAUL McKINNON formerly
loolamon. —TAKE NOTICE that ly i
iTLE MCKINNON has filed a Petition
Divorce No. 2704 of 1949 on the
mds of your desertion for three years
upwards without just cause or excuse
ou wish to defend you may enter an
arance in the Divorce Register
-erne Court King Street Sydney by the
i November 1949 and obtain a copy
the petition without charge from
IRLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor, 164
lip Street, Sydney. — (1.5.) J-
-IGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
Australian and British
Forces.
“Ek Dum”: It has been an-
nounced by the British Ministry
for Defence this week that
British forces total 769,000, of
which 406,000 are in the Army,
219.000 in the R.A.F. and
143.000 in the R.N.
The comparison with Aus-
tralian figures would be enough
to bring a blush to the cheek of
anybody with a sense of' fair
play. This country is rolling in
comforts and food, its only
troubles the result of loafing and
disruption caused by the agents
of a foreign Power with whom
the Government dare not deal.
It has been squandering money
on defence like water without
any result worth mentioning ex-
cept that its defences become
weaker and weaker.
Two obsolescent, if not obso-
lete, medium aircraft-carriers
have been acquired, but recruit-
ing for the R.A.N. is at a low
level and morale is not what it
was.
The R.A.A.F. could not face a
modern wing of aircraft in
the medium-bomber or fighter
range with any feeling of
equanimity.
And even being reviewed by
Mr. Chambers with loud shouts
of praise could scarcely cure the
ills which beset our feeble
“Army,” which consists, apart
from a still keen officer corps,
mostly of clerks, cooks, etc.
The impression which Mr.
Chambers tried to produce
by the cutting of a little
coal recently, that he has a
veritable Wehrmacht at his dis-
posal for all emergencies, is
mere illusion.
The actual fact is that despite
vait and wastefully inefficient
advertising schemes and the
herculean efforts of a band of
enthusiastic war-trained officers
in recruiting, the Citizen Forces
scheme has been a dismal and
costly failure.
Its strength is not a third of
the establishment planned for
the present period. Its ranks
are dwindling. Its armament
and training are ineffective, and
the accommodation provided for
it in the way of drill-grounds
and amenities would disgrace an
African negro republic.
It is about time that Mr.
Chifley took up the challenge
thrown at him by New Zealand.
There not only almost every
electorate but almost every pol-
ling-booth voted for compul-
sory military training.
And if Australia would not
do the same it could only be be-
cause of the attitude of its gov-
erning party, a party which has
never ceased in the past 20
years to play the game of the
Communists in defence and
which only once had the
courage to depart from its tra-
ditional attitude —in 1943, when
the Communist party, desiring
to see Australian troops sent
abroad to open a second front
for all-glorious Russia, helped
to push it into bringing down a
measure for limited overseas
conscription for overseas ser-
vice.
In Europe and China.
“Ek Dum”: News from
Europe continues to be ominous,
if a little stale.
Reports of minefields laid
along the Western borders of
Eastern Europe and of the
evacuation of “politically unre-
liable” populations are not new.
These areas have been fully
militarised for a long time, ex-
cept perhaps in the Sudeten-
land and in other portions fac-
ing the United States zone of
occupied Germany. It is prob-
able that the Russians have only
now found themselves able to
carry out these works, and they
may be more intended to
frighten the local peoples into
the belief that the terrible Wes-
tern nations, armed to the teeth
to the extent of about one-tenth
of Russian militarisation in
point of numbers, are for ever
on the watch for a chance to
invade the peaceful East and
destroy such happy, laughter-
loving countries as Czechoslo-
vakia, where even an unwary
grin in the wrong direction may
mean jail, or even worse.
The Yugoslavs behave as if
they credit the reports that they
may be attacked by the U.S.S.R.
at any moment. If any such
attack is made it will be swift
and sudden —probably a heavy
bombing of key railway points
such as Belgrade and Nish and
Zagreb, contemporaneously with
a swoop on Belgrade from the
Rumanian border around Usdin
or down the Buda road from
Hungary through Szeged or
Mohacs, on whose fields the
“war was lost” on many a school
breaking-up platform.
Perhaps the attack might come
both ways, and, if it came early,
from Bulgaria through the
Dragoman Pass as well, though
later in the season that route is
not easy if the snow is normal.
The Communist advance in
China has slowed up as it ap-
proaches Canton and Amoy, but
towards the end of the week it
was reported to have reached a
point about 110 miles from
Canton, while the coastal ad-
vance had penetrated within 30
miles of Amoy.
The American consulate-
general in Canton has been
closed, U.S. affairs having been
handed over to the British Con-
sul-General. Hong Kong itself
is being provisioned for a siege,
which should not be long in de-
veloping if the Communists
carry out their expressed inten-
tion —heartily approved by the
Australian Communist Press —•
of driving the British out of
China.
On August 28 the Chinese
newspaper “Ta Kung Pao” re-
ported that the United States
had informed the Chinese
Nationalist Government of its
intention to take over Formosa
as part of the U.S.-occupied
territory in the Pacific. Other
reports, but no American ones
up to August 29, confirmed this
statement.
It would be a logical proceed-
ing, since Formosa is vitally im-
portant to Pacific strategy, and,
as a former Japanese possession,
the United States would be wise
in making such a move.
The possible reactions to it,
however, are enormous. Such a
step would make the Chinese
war a world issue with a ven-
geance,
Britain in the Air.
“Ek Dum”; It seems that the
simple, backward British are re-
peating history. Around the
years before World War II the
United States papers, following
the lead of the German and
Russian and other sections of
the world Press, dilated often on
the backwardness of Britain in
the air.
The silly British were jeered
at for concentrating on the
fighter, and for the poor quality
and performance of the fighters
they were concentrating on,
when everybody who followed
the Moscow Radio expositions
and Communist literature knew
that nothing was worth while
save the bomber which could lay
any city low and make navies
unworkable.
When the test came it was
found that Britain was years
ahead of the rest of the world
in both thought and perform-
ance. It had the best heavy-
bomber which the world so far
had developed for European con-
ditions the Lancaster ready
for production, along with re-
serve types such as the Stirling
and Halifax in the experimental
stage. It had the Spitfire and
the Hurricane when they were
needed and the men to fly them.
And it had radar. Virtually
everything produced by other
countries after the first year of
the war was based on British ex-
periment and experience.
Next the British came along
with the jet and with the idea
of the atom-bomb reduced to
something like a concrete plan
which it was left to the Ameri-
cans to develop.
The Americans secured supre-
macy with certain types of air-
craft late in the war, but it was
an ascendancy of adaptation
rather than in the origination of
new techniques. And the im-
provements were not revolution-
ary and did not outstrip the
British by much certainly
not in such realms as that in
which the Mosquito reigned.
Since the war the normal pro-
cess has been going on in the air.
The British have sat quietly
down without doing much talk-
ing, and, after putting one or two
intermediate types into the air,
have suddenly proved that it
was worth their while to wait
until they were sure they were
on the lines which were most
desirable.
In the civil field after some
improvisations and experiments
they have produced, inter alia,
the Comet, which sets a new
standard in speeds, accommoda-
tion and “flyability” in its class.
In the military field Meteors
and Vampires have at least
begun to drift towards the obso-
“It’s the only chance We get to see you French
mannequins
lescent class with the appear-
ance of new types, and some of
the old favorites have gone out
completely in favor of inter-
mediate propelling machines or
up-and-coming jets.
The sterling old Beaufighter,
for instance, is being replaced as
far afield as Malaya by the
Bristol Brigand, B, Mark I, which
is driven by 5650 h.p. against
the Beaufighter’s 3000 h.p.—two
Centaurus engines, just within
the 40,0001 b. all-up range in its
various versions, with control
by a single pilot and accommo-
dation for gunner and radio-
man. Designed for use as a
dive-bomber or R.P.-fighter,
with 20mm. cannon, carrying
two 10001 b. bombs in body in
the dive-bomber version or two
600-pounders under wing in the
bomber version or eight 3in.
rockets in the fighter version, she
has a limit speed of round 350
m.p.h. In long-range flying with
37,0001 b. gross at 5000 ft., her
consumption works out about
1.45 a.m.p.g. and she would
carry 1066 gallons without pro-
vision for 290 gallons in drop
and external tanks.
The Brigand is reported to be
an easy handler, positively stable
about all three axes, and with
few real vices.
The span is 72ft. 4in., length
46ft. sin, The machine reaches
the high-watermark of the pro-
peller-driven era and can be re-
garded as an intermediate to the
age of the new jet types of which
the first to appear in the bomber
field is the Canberra, which has
been in the air for a couple of
months without any release of
data which has reached Aus-
tralia. It is built by English
Electric, is a medium bomber of
medium range, with nothing
strange about its appearance ex-
cept its unfamiliar lowness made
passible by the absence of pro-
pellers. It is clean-lined with a
single tail-plane with a slight
dihedral to make way for the
exhausts of the twin jets—Rolls-
Royce Avon axialflow turbines.
Other bombers in jet form are
well on the way.
The fighters—more urgent to
Britain with its special defensive
problems—are well ahead of
bomber design. The latest is
the Hawker P 1052, which, with
the Supermarine 510, is supposed
to be capable of pushing well
into the supersonic range above
the 700 m.p.h. mark. A P 1052,
piloted by Squadron-Leader T.
S. Wade, on May 13 flew the
221 miles from a starting-line
at London Airport to Villa-
coublay in 21 minutes 28 seconds
—at an average of 618.27 m.p.h.
On the return flight, making no
effort to break records, the
machine made the distance in
23 minutes. The journey out-
ward was equivalent to about
20£ minutes from the centre of
London to the centre of Paris —
say about three-quarters of an
hour from Sydney to Melbourne.
The design reveals nothing
much new —conventional lines
and swept-back wings and fuse-
lage to meet jet requirements.
Details are not yet off the secret
list.
Obscure but rather important
have been recent, operations
along the Greek - Albanian
border, when the Albanians re-
ported that their “country,”
which locally goes by the name
of “Shqiperia” and which is
almost exactly the same size as
Alexandria station in the
Northern Territory, with a
population about the same as
that of Melbourne, was being in-
vaded by the Greeks. The fact
seems to be that the Greeks,
equipped with their new U.S.-
made arms, drove a few mobs
of Albanian guerrillas out of
Greece and into their own
quartpot territory. Even Presi-
dent Hodja’s 3000 Russian tech-
nicians who have been “re-
organising” the Albanian vul-
tures’-nest were unable to do
anything about it. There have
been reports of preparations for
revolt in Albania near the
border of Yugoslavia, which
Comrade Hodja has been abus-
ing in the standard fishwife
manner, apparently believing
that friendship with the U.S.S.R.
would guarantee him immunity
from consequences. In fact,
there are supposedly two rebel-
lions brewing—one organised by
Communists with Moscow lean-
ings, the other by disgruntled
Catholics.
♦ * * *
An almost unnoticed addi-
tion to the European forces in
China last week were 850 officers
and men from the Portuguese
Army who landed at Macao as
the forerunners of a further
1500, mostly native troops, who
are to arrive during the com-
ing month. Macao, last of
Portugal’s possessions in the Far
East, lies across the Canton
River estuary from Hong Kong.
It consists of two small islands,
with an area totalling about six
square miles, and the Portuguese
have held it since 1557, so that
it is the oldest colony in pos-
session of a Western Power on
the Pacific Ocean side of Asia,
It has a very large transit trade,
a very large gambling business
and a collection of smells
which have any Persian city
and darkest Calcutta com-
pletely licked. The Portuguese
are determined to hang on to it,
and have installed a garrison of
6000 troops.
* * * *
The Free Democratic party of
Hesse, the third-biggest party in
the new Western German Par-
liament, with enough power to
make itself felt, has issued a
manifesto demanding “the re-
newal of military organisation
within the framework of the new
union of the free nations of
Europe,” aiming at “collective
measures of security for a
united defence against aggres-
sion.” That the question would
arise was inevitable, but that it
should arise before there is a
peace treaty shows the state of
affairs in Europe clearly.


RICHARDS
v -
HI
iiiii
wm
f.
pfi „
S:'0 K £, V- 1 ’ ■ SKSSSS ■.raw--.^---.w.v.v
■
.. i . \ J>V s*- X / x %
■•;■•• . .... ... . ,
■
: ; :;X:> ; x.:;
Hil
S#;s§
■
SS : SS:¥
_ #
11111
s
v
"t''/'--'
, •'*' !£'SS& £ <;£<;
iip§? < *:g
Jt;;. r ' • ; •*•> • • .;
c. . -. : v<-. ■-’J.
|| '■■ ; •
£% £ §j:
. ■ ■
■ '
THE MEMBER FIRMS
The Butler Machine Tool Co. Ltd.
Th«
Kendall St Gent Ltd. , ,
S '•> ■ ' H' V. ■* S
; John tang & Sons Ltd*
M o£orge Richards & Co* Ltd*
f&M j^ggfflggSSß
;■
- ifc*
sPEChkurm
th
L a
th e s
t r e
La
ret
t a
C
M
P 1
M
e s
M
tt
G
M
M
r s
S I otte
S h
M
e w
request
illustrated lea ets
descriptive
FuUy
t.:. : :i-. : .
rtpii
liiii
KENDALL * CENT
■
~"V'^
'
■
F
mm
ill
pc
V'\- i _ w
.
i
. ■ >; '■'■;■ ~... f t - ' •
■ * ' . • *?•*£
■■MMi
ill*
; ; :
iiiiiiliii
iiii
v
m.
• %,V ;
:££•:>.•:
|| >
V 8 S m
, r
1
•ÜBiilplllilll
••
|iiiil|#iiliiiiiiii
iiiili
** . r
-
*
lip > ■• s
mii it i pi
• * ' * • fey -
A • S * . '
Mmrnrnmf**: wm
iiliiliil
ill
ft
lii
SMMWIHi
MMMWH
iiigiliiiilgi
*■ s »' -
ii
illiiiiiiiilwiiii
.——
crsotfs,
limited
MELBOURNE ?


Ko. 4 In SHELL'S "Australian Artists” Series.
ra
U
reran
BOW **
=*»**
FOCAL POINTS IN THE FLOW OF OIL
—with a scene interpreted bj Donald Friend.
Shell’s oil wharf and tank farm on
Gore Bay, Sydney Harbour, where
overseas tankers unload their cargoes
of liquid fuels, lubricants, bitumen and
crude oil, gave Donald Friend imagin-
ative inspiration for a superb illus-
tration. Donald Friend served as a
Gunner in the A.1.F., later being
appointed Official War Artist, and is
one of the younger Australian artists
considered worthy of representation in
our National Art Galleries. His work
is outstanding for subtle design and
vibrant colour harmonies.
In this scene at Gore Bay, the oil
“installation” is an integral part of the
landscape, aptly symbolising how the
use of oil products is an integral part
of our daily lives. Though simplified
SHELL
here by the artist’s pictorial treatment,
these enormous “installations” are in
reality highly complex, and a marvel of
technical organisation. Lifetimes of
Shell experience ensure the efficient,
economical operation of this import-
ant uy«t in the chain of distribution
which brings oil products from over-
seas to Australia’s motor vehicles,
power plants, machinery and homes.
Donald Friend's colourful rendition of this
illustration will be published by Shell as
occasion offers.
You can be sure of
SHELL
The Shell Company of Australia Ltd. (Inc. In Great Britain)
G495*
RtUtf’.
BLOTCHY
SKIN
marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cnticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment. Soap and
Talcum Powder., 533
acura
TMIMi
Public Notice.
1, GERARD JEAN FRANCOIS BON-
NETON, of French nationality, pom at
Veranne (Loire), France, and resident five
years in Australia, now residing at as
Shepherd Street, Ryde, N.S.W., witend to
apply for naturalisation under _ tne
Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
StemoiC
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
D
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
SUNRY SHOWS
Paul Vincent Carroll’s Irish
Catholic play “The White Steed,”
produced by Peter Randall for
Melbourne Little Theatre, con-
cerns Canon Matt Lavelle, a
priest of the old school, in an
invalid chair and paralysed from
the waist down, and Father
Shaughnessy, his new assistant,
a militant young priest who
wants to bring the moral law
into the law courts and estab-
lishes a vigilance committefe in
the seaside village of Lorcan,
with the willing assistance of the
magistrate and the unwilling
assistance of the schoolmaster.
The bone of contention is Nora
Fintry, seen in a motor-car on
occasion with Michael Shivers,
the Protestant proprietor of the
drink-shop. By a series of highly
illegal actions the fanatical
young priest produces chaos.
The village mob chases Michael
and Nora into the house
of the canon, who locks
himself in the oratory to prevent
himself being forcibly removed
to a home by the militant young
priest. Inspector Toomey, the
dour representative of law and
order, arrests the vigilance com-
mittee and the dour father for
inciting violence and is about to
escort them to the police-station
at the point of a revolver when
the aged canon makes a dramatic
reappearance. Faith has cured
his paralysis, and his spiritual
domination sends the mob home
and makes the policeman release
his prisoners, including the young
priest, and the village returns to
normal.
Mr. Carroll is an Irish-born
ex-Glasgow schoolmaster and
seems to know his Ireland.
There are vitality and a rich
humanity about “The White
Steed,” and his characters —
Phelim Fintry, father of Nora
(done with great verisimilitude
by Alfred Davidson), magistrate
Donnacaidh McGoilla Phadraig
(portrayed excellently by
Roy Day), Dennis Dillon,
the chickenhearted schoolmaster
(lan Hanna), and Inspector
Toomey (Kenneth Burgess)—
have some of the depth that
Sean O’Casey gets into his Irish
portraits. Nora Fintry (well
done by Pauline Charleston), the
indulgent canon (remarkably
well portrayed by Collins Hilton)
and the intolerant Father
Shaughnessy (Robert Earle) are
more symbols for the ideas they
represent than actual people, but
they come to life in the final
chapter.
* * * *
Machiavelli’s “Mandragola”
wifi be the Independent Theatre’s
next production at their North
Sydney theatre—on September
1. Of the play, first printed in
Rome in 1524, Britannica's sum-
mary is fair enough:
It is the ripest and most powerful
play in the Italian language. The
plot is improbable and unpleasing.
But the wit, humor, vivacity and
satire of the piece bring before us
the old life of Florence in a suc-
cession of brilliant scenes. If
Machiavelli had any moral object
when he composed the “Mandragola,”
it was to paint in glaring colors the
corruption of Italian society. It
shows how a bold adventurer, aided
by the profligacy of a parasite, the
avarice and hypocrisy of a confessor,
and a mother’s complaisant familiarity
with vice, achieves the triumph of
making a gulled husband bring his
own unwilling but too-yielding wile
to shame. The whole comedy is a
study of stupidity and baseness acted
on by roguery. The force of healthy
instincts is underestimated.
The play, English text by
Ashley Dukes, was produced by
Godfrey Kenton at the Mercury
Theatre in London a few months
after the outbreak of war ; the
cast included John Laurie and
Sarah Churchill. Adrian Bor-
zell will produce his own adap-
tation for the Independent.
* * * *
Chinese painting, like Chinese
poetry, does not go very far, but
is irreproachable within its
limits. There is no Chinese
Shakspeare, no Beethoven, no
Rubens; their arts lack weight,
orchestration, profundity of
characterisation, dramatic ex-
citement on the grand scale. But
you would find few Western
artists—and only a Davies or a
Shaw Neilson in poetry —able to
make such a precise and delicate
lyric out of three or four grass-
hoppers as does Li Yueh in the
exhibition of Chinese paintings
at the N. S. Wales National Gal-
lery. Nor do you often find in
Western art that exquisite tran-
quillity of mind —represented in
the grey spaces of the landscapes
-—in which the forms of trees,
mountains, flowers, butterflies or
birds manifest themselves in a
single clear perception or series
of perceptions. The exhibition,
though the hanging is confus-
ing, has been well selected to
show the different categories of
Chinese art, from the grey land-
scapes to the colored fans, from
the quietly humorous portraits
to the studies of a single bough
and from the meticulous grass-
hoppers to the melodramatic
tigers. It comes from the col-
lection of Major William Ran-
dal McDonnell Parr —formerly
Commissioner for the Chinese
Imperial Maritime Customs —
and was made available by his
son, Mr, Randal Robert Mc-
Donnell Parr.
♦ * * ♦
Of oils and watercolors exhi-
bited by Hubert Jarvis at
Finney’s Gallery, Brisbane,
watercolor appears to be the
artist’s appropriate medium. His
landscapes are small, frequently
charming, and there is a pre-
occupation with color as such.
Jarvis’s style, however, lacks
spontaneity, and in the absence
of that flash and sparkle which
can make watercolor, and land-
scapes in particular, a delight to
the eye, the majority of his paint-
ings give an unfair impression of
prettiness. Unfair, because there
is honest construction in the
landscapes and, when one looks
for it, honest observation. “Big
Burleigh,” a tree-topped hill
shaped like a castle, with blue
sky and clouds against it, and
a narrow road winding down to
rocks apd cattle, reminds one of
John Eldershaw (whose exhibi-
tion is opening next week at the
Moreton Galleries). “The Two
Trees” is a graphic arboreal
statement against autumn green
and blue sky, with vanishing
hills; and “Ma Ma Creek,
Lockyer,” shows a beach and
cattle against a luxurious back-
drop of green foliage ; in the last
case the observation is there, but
it would take something like the
major effort of a poetic imagina-
tion to get the full force of that
background of trees.
• * * *
There is a very pretty little
rumpus going on in Sydney
about an exhibition which the
Studio of Realist Art was to
hold at David Jones’s Galleries,
and which the group has now
withdrawn. It appears that Mrs.
Jessie Street was to open the
exhibition, but the store’s direc-
tors cancelled the opening; they
also refused to hang, as
“blatantly political,” a painting
by one John Nicholas showing
a crowd outside a building
labelled “National Bank” and
dominated by a blonde heroine
waving a red flag. Since the
coal strike it would seem that
blondes waving red flags are not
popular,
* * * ♦
No singer heard in Sydney for
years has had quite the same
ability to round off perfectly a
song as has Viennese lyric
soprano Elisabeth Schwarzkopf.
Her ability to invest Schu-
bert’s “Gretchen at the Spin-
ning-wheel” with the triple
emotions of sadness, yearning
and eagerness was fascinating.
She stepped from that to the
exquisite mischievousness o f
Hugo Wolff’s “The Mousetrap
Spell” and “Elfin Song” with
equal authority, capturing each
of these antitheses in moods
completely. The joyous surge
of Richard Strauss’s “Standchen”
—probably the most rapturous
serenade ever written —the seren-
ity of Bach’s “O Saviour Sweet”
and the undercurrent of sadness
in the Brahms “Cradle Song”—
these all had the added virtue
of beautiful enunciation. Other
songs ranged from Grieg and
Max Reger to Mozart and
Gluck, The accompaniments
were played with delicacy and
refinement by Margaret Scho-
field.
Six - feet - six of diffidence
except when he is conducting,
when he looks like an enormous
vulture, Otto Klemperer, the
German conductor, now a U.S.
citizen, bowled his audience over
at his first concert with the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra at
Melbourne Town Hall. That
organisation was galvanised into
the finest performance it has
given since its inauguration
in Tschaikowsy’s “Pathetique,”
which has also been labelled
“tragic” and might just as well
be called “self-pityishfor it is
a superb musical description of
that emotion. Spontaneous
applause broke out at the end
of the third movement without
upsetting the composure of the
conductor, who shook the hand
of Bertha Jorgensen as if she
alone had done it. Then he pro-
ceeded with the final movement.
The Stravinsky suite from
“Petrouchka” is almost pure
illustration and really needs the
Moor, wizard, Cossacks, tipsy
merchant and ballerinas, but
they were scarcely missed in the
orchestra’s vivid portrait-paint-
ing.
♦ * * ♦
Cable-news from London says
that Jane Russell has been
chosen to play the lead in the
film of Norman Lindsay’s novel
The Cautious Amorist. Whether
the film will be much like the
novel is open to question ; the
curate in it has become a pro-
fessor, for a start. But Noel
Langley, who wrote the script
and is author of There's a Por-
poise Close Behind Me, is a
lively humorist, and the story of
three men and a girl ship-
wrecked on a desert island has
obvious possibilities. Norman
Lindsay’s Magic Pudding (for a
Disney-like fantasy), Saturdee
(for something like the “Our
Gang” comedies) and his amus-
ingly realistic novels such as
Redheap and The Cousin from
Fiji could all be made into
splendid films ; but they await
the maturity of the film industry
in this country. There was talk
—which came to nothing—of a
film of Redheap at the time
when the book was banned.
* * * *
“The Barkleys of Broadway”
(Sydney St. James): Fred Astaire
and Ginger Rogers together
again after many years in a f.a.q.
entertainer. Astaire is as nimble
as ever, although Rogers seems
slightly off her old smooth form.
The story—of the wrangling,
separations and reconciliations
of a husband-and-wife dance
team —is a little sugary, with
Oscar Levant squeezing a lemon,
or at least a grapefruit, oyer
some of the more saccharine
moments.
* * * *
“It Happens Every Spring”
(Sydney Mayfair): A bright
film dealing with Professor Ray
Milland as inventor of the un-
hittable baseball. As sole pro-
prietor of the pill Milland has a
brief and amazing career as a
baseball pitcher and retires cham-
pion without having aroused
the suspicions of the stewards.


d
-i
m
m
3
mSSI.
EXPRESS
THE SECRET'S IN THE
m
BLEND
TMD-IZ.4*
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NTJ Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
1 enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL,
Address. - T t*ti nj
, , B, 81/8/-49
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist door, Bristol House,
W BtaMh Store*. Sydney. MAjnM,
FLY ACROSS Tl
j
i
j
Sis
m
Gojmu&Juom ffa
SLEEP ON LAND BY NIGHT!
TRAVEL BY AIR IN THE DAY!
A NEW IDEA IN AIR
SERVICE AND COMFORT!
When you fly Canadian Pacific to
Canada—you have the extra com-
fort of sleeping on land each night
at colourful Fiji and romantic
Honolulu with hotel room and
meals at no extra cost to you !
Through transportation may be
purchased in Australian currency.
■ ■
i
i
m
HOURS OF COMFORT IN
THE AIR!
Full-length-reclining ‘Loungaire’
chairs. Courteous, efficient per-
sonnel. Superb service. Wonder-
ful meals. 4-engine pressurised
cabin liners. You fly relaxed—
arrive refreshed—when you fly
Canadian Pacific style.
For further details apply Canadian
Pacific Railway Company, or Union
Steam Ship Co. (General Agents),
Zip George Street, Sydney, and
59 William Street, Melbourne, or
any authorised Tourist Agency.
Qa*uJUmsml£k
SmA/RSBSUNSS
“THE WINGS OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM”
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited—lncorporated in Canada
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The Hobartville Stakes meeting is
always looked to to supply pointers
for the spring carnival, and Saturday’s
racing at Randwick did not disappoint;
there was abundant promising form.
By the same token, it was a wise
punter who contented himself with
merely studying the form. On a
track sodden after two days of solid
rain, results very much favored the
bookies.
The last horse to win the double
of Hobartville Stakes and A.J.C.
Derby was Magnificent, in 1945;
Saturday’s Hobartville winner Chas-
tise (O. Moore) did not impress as
likely to be another. True, Chastise
won easily, and in the right way —
running along behind the pacemakers
to the turn, then coming home
stoutly to be in front at the Leger
and three lengths clear at the finish;
but Chastise is a filly, and fillies
capable of winning a Derby pop up
about once per half-century.
Chastise won from another filly in
Mona’s Choice, but Field Boy, finish-
ing solidly into third place, looked
the Derby prospect of the field; he
just beat Breeders’ Plate-winner High
Jip, who also ran a fair race. Field
Boy is a son of Nuffield, is the image
of his sire in appearance, and might
well prove up to repeating Nuffield’s
performance of winning both Derbies.
Mentioned here last week as a pos-
sible for the Epsom, despite having
never won at a mile, The Groom
(N. Sellwood) ran another splendid
trial in winning the w.f.a. Warwick
Stakes (7f.) with topweight of 9.3.
The Groom finished very well indeed
to beat King’s Coin, carrying 7.10,
and Dark Marne (9st.) —a first-class
effort on the heavy track. Dark
Marne’s performance (he was beaten
by a long neck and a nose) indicated
that he is going to be as good as
ever for the longer races in the
spring.
The Campbelltown Handicap (6f.)
is usually regarded as an Epsom
guide, but the best of several very
good runs noted in Saturday’s race
was turned in by a Metrop. candi-
date—lndian Chief, who flew home
from a nearly hopeless position to be
beaten three-parts of a length by
the lightly-weighted Bungymun (B.
Moon), a 16-to-l shot. Smooth
Action also ran well, coming from
a long way back to finish a half-
head behind Indian Chief. Heroic
Sovereign looked to have the race
won when he hit the front with a
furlong to go, but, fresh from a
spell, he bad not quite the condition
to finish the job under topweight;
nevertheless, a promising run. Also
impressive was the very capable
MacArthur mare Persist. Indian
Chief, a four-year-old son of Mani-
toba from the imported mare Faerie
Queene, has 7.10 in the Metrop.
The Warwick Farm Spring Handi-
cap (12f.) went to the much-improved
Agincourt horse Barita, his third suc-
cessive win. Starting a warm favorite,
Barita won by a length and a quarter
from Tamasha, who was unlucky in
striking serious interference at the
turn. A hefty betting plunge went
amiss when Maranga finished only
fifth in the field of 11; Maranga’s
apprentice rider seemed a bit over-
anxious, taking his mount to the
front six furlongs from home.
A beautifully-bred mare (by
Marabou from Cooranga),
Maranga has not met with
much success, but impresses
present observer as one of the
best prospects among the lightweights
in the Metrop.; Maranga has the
minimum, 6.7.
* * * *
The huge fields which often contest
races over the straight 6-furlongs
course at Flemington may be a head-
ache for punters, but there is the
compensation that they provide one
of the grandest sights of racing. In
addition to offering this noble spec-
tacle, Saturday’s Chesterfield Handi-
cap lent support to the old turf
maxim “the greater the field the
greater the certainty”; favorite Regal
Scout (J. Purtell) won the Chester-
field from 37 other runners.
Outstanding youngster of last sea-
son, Regal Scout was having his first
run as a three-year-old, and the per-
formance spoke highly of his pros-
pects this season. It was Regal
Scout’s sixth win from seven starts,
his only defeat being at Flemington
in May, when, carrying surplus beef
as well as a handicap of 9.8, he was
downed by the crack filly Adela. It
remains to be seen if such a brilliant
colt as is Regal Scout can stay, but
he has encouragingly shown ability
to win his races either way. On
Saturday he came from behind to
down the pacemaker Spoor by a
neck. Also having his first run this
season in the Chesterfield, Carbon
Copy gave his admirers no cause for
concern, running a nice even race
from an outside barrier position to
beat home far more than beat him.
The J. J. Liston Stakes, standard
w.f.a. at a mile, brought together a
bunch of fair performers and saw
the English horse One Up give fur-
ther evidence that he is the best
importation to have raced here in
many a day. In w.f.a. races riders
usually try to trot out all the tactics
they’ve ever learned; Saturday’s race
was no exception, and the result, as
usual, a muddling-run affair. A
high-strung looking individual. One
Up fairly shot out from the barrier,
but his jockey (S. Ralph) restrained
him, the others let it go at that, and
the first half-mile was run at funeral
pace; at the half-mile One Up was
given his head, and he ran the last
four in cracking time to very com-
fortably defeat favorite Ellerslie and
Ungar, One Up started at 16 to 1.
Confusion is sure to arise through
there being two horses named One
Up racing here at present; in fact,
it is strongly suspected that one
handicapper has already fallen vie-
“That bothersome thing kept getting in the Way.”
tim. The other One Up is a three-
year-old Dhoti colt. Possibly the
most appropriate way to settle the
matter would be to rechristen the
Australian article Two Up.
After disappointing badly at
Moonee Valley when it was alleged
he stopped a clod of dirt with his
eye, the New Zealand-bred Royal
Pharos re-established himself with a
comfortable victory in the second
Effingham Handicap (7f.) for three-
year-olds. With S. Ralph up, Royal
Pharos won by two lengths from Cen-
turion and the favorite Accordion.
Even easier was the success of Chic-
quita, who, in winning the first divi-
sion of the Effingham, beat Patron
and Syrian Sun by four lengths.
Chicquita is a most promising filly,
and, being a daughter of Blank,
should be able to stay.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances): —
Ashbury Mixed; Count Aulone, 1;
Humming Top, 2; Atnar, 3. Campsie
Mixed: Benvolo, 1; Tithonus, 2;
Messenger, 3. Three- and Four-year-
old : Duke of Syke, 1; Bungymun,
2; Brother Arthur, 3. Canterbury
Park Handicap: Persist, 1; Barita,
2; Flying Duke, 3. Canterbury
Stakes: Heroic Sovereign, 1; Bern-
brook, 2 i San Domenico, 3. Canter-
bury Guineas: Field Boy, 1; Hum-
ming Top, 2; Aqua Regis, 3. Welter:
Bold Archer, 1; Farhad, 2; Golden
Rust, 3.
* * * *
The Davis Cup Challenge round
played at Forest Hills (U.S.A.) over
the week-end resembled that of 1939
insofar as Australia lost the first two
singles and won the doubles; this
time, however, we also lost the final
singles, Sedgman and Sidwell being
beaten respectively by Schroeder and
Gonzales in straight sets. In every
Challenge round played since the war
Australia’s loss of the first two singles
has signalled an outbreak of cheery
optimism: “Oh yes, but we did that
in ’39, and still won.” It should
now be pretty obvious that success
in at least one of the first singles is
really vital,
Manager Cliff Sproule’s choice of
Sidwell for both the singles and the
doubles came In for a lot of criticism,
implying as it did that Sidwell is a
better singles player than Bromwich
and a better doubles man than Sedg-
man. Apart from being on the spot,
Sproule, with years of experience,
knows far more about the game than
most of his remote critics, and, on
the results, his choice was evidently
a wise one. Sidwell played much
the best of the trio; he took
Schroeder to five sets in the first
singles, and was mainly responsible
for the doubles victory.
« « * *
With us again is the silly season,
when a variety of odd souls become
obsessed with the notion of crossing
the English Channel the hard way.
Accompanied by “colossal” publicity,
an American lass has been dithering
around the foreshores for weeks past,
reminding one very much of the old
ditty “But don’t go near the water.”
Meanwhile, minus the publicity, a
hefty young chunk of good English
beef has earned the distinction of
being the youngest to ever conquer
the Channel. Philip Mickman, aged
18, slipped quietly into the drink near
Cap Gris Nez (France) and emerged
23 hours 48 minutes later at Kings-
down, near Deal (Eng.). Swept about
by the unpredictable tides which
make the job such a tough one,
young Mickman covered half the
length of the Channel as well as the
breadth.
It’s Essendon and Collingwood m
the first semi-final of the V.F.L. next
Saturday, North Melbourne and Carl-
ton the following week; last Satur-
day’s games were unimportant as
regards “the four.” This could be
the reason why St. Kilda stoushed
Collingwood, 11.15-10.12, in a rattling
good game and tied with Hawthorn
for the season’s wooden spoon, four
wins each. Melbourne, having missed
“the four,” moodily belteck Haw-
thorn, 15.12-10.16; North Melbourne
displayed premiership form to beat
Carlton, 15.18-7.10; the Dons over-
ran Footscray, 14.13-8.13; Fitzroy
booked another win against South,
19 12-10 17; and Richmond cele-
brated Jack Dyer’s last game with a
22.12-10.15 win over Geelong, It
was Jack’s 310th game.
On form, the V.F.L. premiership
is between North Melbourne and
Essendon. Both Collingwood and
Carlton seem to have gone stale.
North is as fresh as when it began
the long run of wins that took it
to the minor premiership, and Essen-
don, after a mid-season pause, has
regained its dash.
* * * *
“Ex-C-G.”: Cremean, Victorian
M.L.A., is keen on helping youth to
display speed and muscle, and will
arrive in Sydney on Friday with a
herd of young footballers from Police
Boys’ Clubs and junior teams about
Richmond (Melbourne). They’ll be
entertained at Sydney Town Hall, and
next day will play the Dellmuth
(Sydney) under-18 team and the Bur-
wood Police Boys’ under-16 team.
The big Richmond Club has invited
the Sydney boys to Melbourne to
see the V.F.L. finals. All this is joy
to young Rupert Bowen, who is
coach, manager and pretty well
everything else of the Dellmuth Club,
named after the American, Carl Dell-
muth, who is trying to get Aussie
Rules a hearing in the U.S.A. Young
Bowen should be a valuable asset to
the Aussie Rules people who are try-
ing to popularise the national code
in Sydney.
* * * *
Gordon is well clear in the Sydney
Rugby Union competition, having
won all its matches (15) to score 32
competition points. After Gordon
it’s a close go, University lying secpnd
with 24 points, while Randwick,
Eastern Suburbs and Manly each
have 22 points. On Saturday Gordon
downed Eastwood 13-8 to land the
minor premiership; Manly over-
powered University, 14-6; Randwick
beat Wests, 14-8; Easts won a close
match with Norths, 9-6; and Drum-
moyne, which has struck winning
form rather late in the season, tossed
Parramatta, 9-6. In New Zealand,
the touring Australian team beat
Wairarapa 21-14 in a match which
was much more closely contested than
the score suggests.


FD
No. 1 of a
Series
Turning back the pages
of the past to 1904, you see
the first of a long line of
Bonaldson-Tippett Engines
which hare made power en-
gineering history —an engine
which did a job of pioneering
no less meritorious than that
of the pioneers themselves.
i
Outdated, perhaps, by to-day's standards, I! never-
theless provided cheap,- reliable power lor the
Australian farmer—a welcome relief from the old-
time "horse-works",
"Lasts Long, Saves Time, Makes Money and
Friends" —this was the slogan 45 years ago—as
true of Bonaldson-Tippett Engines to-day as the
day it was written.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Bead Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Showrooms: 628 Bourke St., Mel-
bourne. 2V.S.IT. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., 42
Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
RHIU4IOSON-IIPPETT
ENGINES
For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole
year, yields 2001 b.; has 20It. runners
loaded with large red tomatoes. Disease
and drought resistant. Sensation in
America. 2/fl pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Kurnell, Sydney.
frvsabeK
m
C. VP PPNTEED NEVER TO EJ»D F . O R_ SHRINK
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
The Small Clip.
“Murrawong”: When classing
the small clip (B. 17/8/ ’49) the
first and continuing problem of
the classer is how to put the clip
on the market to attract the
buyer. Market conditions have
changed so much in the past 30
years —and that change is being
intensified by the chopping-up of
stations —that the first essential
is to get every bale into the big-
lots section. Any woolgrower
who doubts it should put the
question to his broker.
Buyers want wool well classed
and in big, bulky lots. There is
a limit to the lots a buyer can
inspect during the one morning
the wool is on display—he has
to bid for it the same afternoon
—and if he has a 200-bale order
to fill he prefers to get it in 10
lots of 20 even if he has to pay
a little more than to value and
bid for 100 two-bale lots in the
stars.
Unless a 30-bale (or smaller)
clip comes from a straight line
of Merino ewes or wethers of
the same age and breeding that
have been running on identical
feed on the same class of coun-
try the classer will have his work
cut out to get an even five-bale
line out of them. “Ben Acre’s”
advice to draft the sheep into
Merinos, crossbreds, hoggets,
ewes and wethers is sound, but
if the classer is left with five or
six small mobs what sort of
lines will he get? Dividing the
fleeces of each flock into two
lines is a generalisation that will
get all but a gun classer into
trouble. You don’t often find a
gun handling a 30-l?ale clip. If
it were his own clip he would
know long before he brought
them into the shed whether
there was ,a straight five-bale
line in them.
If they were a mixture of
Merino, XB and comebacks the
experienced classer wouldn’t
waste his time. He would shear
his Merinos first and bale all
that wool before starting on the
XBs, because be knows that the
broker sells these types on dif-
ferent parts of the show-floor,
and, further, any locks or low
lines of mixed XB and Merino
will bring only the value of the
lowest type in the mixture.
Whether he skirts the fleeces
will depend on the amount of
burr on them and on the possi-
bility of having the job properly
done in the shed. If he is to
have the clip classed elsewhere
he can dispense with shedhands.
Dags and stains should be re-
moved, and the fleeces should
be carefully rolled and placed
straightaway in the press.
While the small owner may
get a kick out of seeing his
brand in the same catalogue as
well-known clips, he will usually
be much better off financially if
he sends his entire clip to be
skirted, classed, pooled and sold
under the well-known brand of
one of the reliable wool-pooling
firms. At a cost of about Id.
a pound he economises on
shed labor, has his clip handled
by a tip-top classer and sold
under a brand that the buyer
knows in the best section of the
market—the big lots. Unless
the clip is well classed the
broker will probably send it to
be pooled anyhow, and take the
responsibility for so doing.
A New Competition.
“He-Ne”: Next year Sydney
R.A.S. will run a stock-feeds
competition in place of its fod-
der-conservation competitions,
which have been run for the past
23 years, with a break in the
war period. The fodder contests
have achieved their purpose, and
there is a need now to persuade
landmen that the mere storage
of drought feed is not enough.
The new competitions aim to
stimulate supplementary feed-
ing when grass is short, pasture
improvement and management,
growing of grazing and fodder
crops and improvement in water
and shelter.
To that end competing proper-
ties are to be judged on their
supplies of supplementary feed,
stock-feed crops, improved and
natural pastures, water-supplies,
trees and the condition of stock.
The new contests, to begin in
1950, will be harder to judge
than the fodder competitions,
and there will be no running
over a man’s property in an
hour or so. To judge a place
properly will require at least a
day, as a thorough inspection
will have to be made of the
whole property. Championship
divisions for 1950 are the South-
west and South Coast, for 1951
Central-west and Central Coast,
for 1952 North-west and North
Coast.
Last of the old fodder cham-
pionships was conducted on the
South Coast, and was won by
R. and C. C. Cochrane, Parra-
bel, Bega, with 186 points.
Dairy-farmers, they won the
championship last year also.
Second was J. Binks, Lynn-
wood, Berry, 180 points, and
third J. M. and C. N. Miller,
Pyree, via Nowra, 178 points.
Vic. Herd Tests.
“Mr.”; This year a record
number of 6186 cows completed
the full lactation period of 273
days ; 448 gave more than 5001 b.
of butterfat, 85 passed the
6001 b. mark, 16 yielded 7001 b. or
more, six gave 8001 b. and two
Friesians made over 9001 b. The
year’s average for Victoria was
3411 b., 191 b. less than for the
good 1939 season.
Herd championship was won
by J. Stedman, Appin (Vic.),
“Happy landing !”
who won it last year and won
the reserve championship in
1947—n0t bad, considering that
Stedman has only been in the
standard test for three years.
The 22 Jerseys averaged 596.71 b.
of butterfat. A veteran of
World War I, Stedman farms a
nice property in Kerang irriga-
tion district, with little assist-
ance beyond family help. This,
however, is not negligible, and
one member, an 18-year-old girl,
is her father’s right-hand assist-
ant. Prior to entering the State
competition Stedman had been
long prominent in the Kerang
grade test.
Reserve championship went to
the South Gippslander W. C. R.
Gay, of Yarram, whose 15
Jerseys averaged 581.51 b, of fat.
A Friesian herd (P. W. Good-
fellow, Bunyip) of 18 cows
averhged 561.61 b.
Champion cow, as often hap-
pens, did not come from the
leading breed, the Jerseys. Last
year the champion was a
Guernsey, the year before an
Ayrshire, in 1946 a Guernsey,
and this year the Department of
Agriculture’s Friesian, Victoria
Olga, won with 905.31 b. This
yield was short of the 917.31 b.
by another Friesian, Ingolston
Gwen (P. W. Goodfellow), but
Gwen rendered herself ineli-
gible by failing to calve within
15 months of her previous calv-
ing. J. H. Goddard’s mature
Ayrshire Inverurie Thistledown,
winner of the championship in
1947, took reserve position with
a yield of 840.51 b.
Stock for Weeds.
“Bill C.”: I have long advo-
vated moderate stocking of
grasslands to check weed-growth
—sometimes in the face of much
criticism (B. 20/7/’49). In my
N.Q. district overstocking has
caused little erosion, but it has
resulted in thousands of weed-
choked paddocks. What’s more,
it’s significant that the growth
of weeds varies from year to
year with the number of stock —
cattle or horses —run on the
area.
Many of these paddocks had
few weeds until overstocking be-
gan. Then the weeds sprang up
everywhere; the ground must
have been full of weed-seeds
awaiting their chance.
Grasses can only compete
effectively with weeds (much
hardier plants, usually) when
they get a fair go. If they’re
grazed to ground-level in sea-
son and out it’s certain that
weeds, which probably are not
grazed at all, will have the final
say.
Big-end Bearings.
“Ben Acre”: It is necessary,
especially in engines with pres-
sure-oiled bearings, to have the
bearings adjusted evenly. Other-
wise the oil pressure might be
reduced and the tighter bearing
not be sufficiently lubricated.
Usual method is to take out
shims evenly from each side of
the bearing-frame until tight-
ness is felt, then replace one or
two shims to give the bearing
clearance. After adjustment and
testing loosen the bolts slightly
so that bearing tightness will not
interfere with the testing of
other bearings. Complete the
job and tighten all bolts. Pin
the bolts with cotters that fit
neatly.
Some engines have no shims,
the bearings being tightened by
filing the bearing-frame. File
carefully with the file flat on
both faces of the bearing-
frame-—at right-angles to the
crankshaft afterwards flaten-
ning each side by filing parallel
to the crankshaft. Do the work
gradually, testing from time to
time. A method of testing by
which unnecessary filing i s
avoided is to place a piece of
paper, well oiled, on the crank-
shaft and fit on to that. Use
good-quality hard paper of
medium thickness and close the
bearing until it almost seizes.
When the paper is removed the
fitting should be correct. If too
tight correct by shimming.
Good-quality paper can be used
in place of shims, but don’t use
more than two thicknesses in
each side of the bearing-frame.
Paper varies considerably in
thickness and compressibility,
so select paper of the type re-
quired.
Be sure the bearings are
assembled correctly. All the
bearings will be found numbered
or marked on the one side, or a
pointer will indicate the back or
front. If the bearings are done
one at a time each can be
checked against the next for
correctness.
Turnips for Winter Feed.
“Longjon”: ISI.S.W. South
Coast dairy-farmers are finding
turnips a great winter stand-by.
At Bomaderry one man kept 40
cows on six acres of turnips for
three months without any other
bulk feed. J. Butler, of Butler
Bros., Kangaroo Valley, has
four acres of turnips ready for
grazing, but has not had to use
them as feed is so plentiful.
Butler does not intend to cut
the turnips. He will allow the
cows to graze the tops and then
plough the turnips out for them
to finish off. He said turnips
do not taint the milk if it is
cooled sufficiently.
Sand Crack.
“Equine”: Sometimes the
crack is large, and usually when
pressure is put on the hoof, as
when walking, it opens and shuts
with each step. On close exami-
nation it will be seen to be in-
flamed and suppurating. If not
attended to immediately the
horse will be crippled.
To bind the crack and prevent
it from spreading insert two
horseshoe nails transversely
through the crack to keep the
edges together. If the crack does
not extend to the coronet heat
a piece of wire and fire the crack
across the top, middle and
bottom. Make the grooves as
deeply as possible, but not deep


HUNTER
CIGARETTES
/
;
7i
4
t
1>
HUUTtR
c*o
%
Hunter
m
Have#
m
. and again sm
favoured blend
smoke
m
2'9 for 20
EVERYWHERE
DISTRIBUTORS
MAURICE NEWSTEAD PTY. LTD. <« castureaoh street, SYDNEY
if you
WERE
THERE
Vburffelf.
F
. . . your wool could receive
no greater attention, for A.M.L.&F. experts are at work
in your interests at every stage—valuing, letting and
displaying your wool to the best advantage. You are
always assured of the best possible price when the
“A.M.L.&F. man” sells
your wool!
86 Yaan in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863.
DF
D
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND S FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Oharleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents: McPhie & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
vsmmMNm
< ;
Write for
particulars
"SIRIUS 11
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
For contour levelling,
irrigation and drainage,
etc. High-quality in-
struments for immediate
delivery. Complete with
case and tripod,
£2B/12/-.
Horizontal Circle (in
Degrees), £2/15/- extra.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Op-
tical Square, General
Survey and Drafting
Requirements.
FD
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
42 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY. 8W8631
The Lovely
Lamp!
Peach Lamp Shade
Polished Brass & Cream Metal Parts
TILLEY TABLE LAMPS
ARE AVAILABLE IN TWO SIZES
T. L. 106 “THE QUEEN” 2IJ'
T. L. 136 “THE PRINCESS” \6V
High
High
LAMPS
BURN ORDINARY PARAFFIN
The Lamps with
the Happy Mantle!
MANUFACTURED ONLY
AT HENDON, ENGLAND
BY
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD.
DISTRIBUTORS THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
Manufacturers * Representatives:—
T. H. BENTLEY (PTY) LTD.
123-125 WILLIAM STREET,
MELBOURNE, Cl
enough to injure the sensitive
tissues. Keep the hoof dressed
with a good dressing.
Townsville Lucerne.
“Outback”: Townsville
lucerne, a chance introduction
in the early 1900’s from Asia,
may do for North Queensland’s
coastal belt what subterranean
clover has done for the southern
winter-rainfall areas. Townsville
lucerne is a legume with a
marked preference for proven
soils, and it has a protein con-
tent, equal to that of lucerne. It
comes away with the December
rains, but is apparently not
relished fully by stock until it
dries off.
Stock eat the natural grasses
while at the height of their nutri-
tional value, and this leaves the
lucerne as a valuable source of
feed when all other pastures have
lost their food value. It has
been claimed that Townsville
lucerne adds up to 1501 b. to the
weight of a beast protected from
tick and fly worries by rucide
or gammexane. This year
Oonoonba Animal Health station
cut 15 to 20 acres for about 20
tons of good-quality hay ; when
chaffed, it compared favorably
with ordinary lucerne chaff from
the south, which cost £22 a ton
landed. So far it has been pos-
sible to get only one cutting a
year, but next year experiments
are to be conducted with super-
phosphate.
Townsville lucerne does not
like frost, and its present limits
appear to be the tropical coast
between Mackay and Cooktown.
However, there is a steady de-
mand for the seed from various
districts, and interesting results
should soon be known from a
wide area.
Rabbits in N.Z.
“Angora”; Complete destruc-
tion has been undertaken by
rabbit boards. Major difficulties
are adequate finance and man-
power. Several boards have
used aircraft for extensiye
spreading of phosphorised pol-
lard poison. Thus large areas
can be covered at cheaper cost
than employment of labor.
To lay a ton of poison in a
day in the high country would
need 110 men at a wages cost
of about £l5O. An aircraft can
spread a ton in approximately
four hours at a cost of £45. The
plane travels at from 60 to 70
m.p.h. at 200 ft., spreading 101 b.
of pollard to the mile.
In North Otago, South Island,
three such spreadings have taken
place, and two were highly suc-
cessful. In the past killing of
rabbits was a profitable com-
mercial undertaking, but this
system aims at complete destruc-
tion with no thought of im-
mediate gain.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jonman”: Weaving is a
nervous condition of. the horse,
identified by continual weaving
or see-sawing of the head and
neck from side to side. If the
horse is stabled keep the top-
door open and place a vertical
bar in the middle of the opening.
He can see out but cannot weave.
An open paddock with a shelter-
shed is best.
“G.M.”; The concrete mix-
ture should be moist but stiff.
Sloppy mixtures give uneven dis-
tribution of cement, the excess
water carrying it from round
the ballast to the bottom of the
form. Rendering mixtures may
be moister, but only enough to
give a smooth finish, showing no
oozing water when the trowel is
applied.
“Jock”: Adding a little potas-
sium-chloride to glue will pre-
vent cracking if the joint is to
be exposed to heat, as in a
mantelpiece. This glue will also
stick to glass and metal.
“W. Court”: A lot of trouble
may often be averted by going
carefully around both inner and
outer edges of a newly-burned
firebreak first thing next morn-
ing. The dew will have any
sticks or stumps smoking plenti-
fully ; after it has dried, smould-
ering brands are harder to spot.
Even though the semi-dry grass
didn’t bum freely at dusk it is
apt to take fire at noon.
“Sarina”: News of an open
season for possums in Tasmania
(B. 3/ 8 / ’49) may start cane-
farmers in N.Q. agitating for
action against them. Although
most graziers inland say possums
are scarce and need protection,
they’re thick on the coast, and
are damaging soft canes like
Comus, MI9OO, Q2B, etc. They
just gnaw the bases of the sticks,
which then fall and dry out. A
lot of supposed rat damage is
possum’s work.
“Jock”; When removing tyres
from rims save damage to tyre-
beading and hands by running
a damp cake of soap around
tyre and rim edges,
“Bill C.”: Dirty quarters
mean that every disease that
attacks the home poultry flock
spreads freely. Many people
don’t regard a sick fowl as worth
doctoring, but there’s no point
in letting it run with its fellows,
possibly spreading infection,
until it either dies or recovers.
Droppings of ailing birds infect
the soil with germs; worms are
also spread in this way.
“Mali”; Pumpkins should be
planted in September, the seed
being at least a year old and
saved, if possible, from the best
varieties with deep flesh, small
seed cavities and smooth rind.
The soil should not be tilled too
finely, but to such a degree that
the vines can root readily as they
spread.
“C.A.A.”; Deficiency of
boron —one of the minor trace
elements —which causes a corky
tissue of apples and pears, may
be combated by dressing soil be-
neath affected trees with borax,
amounts varying with the size of
the tree, fib. to fib. to moderate-
sized trees and 11b. to large trees.
The applications should last
three years. Apply about
August.
“Sundowner”; An adequate
supply of minerals for the brood
sow comes from the following
mixture: Charcoal 20 parts,
hardwood ashes 20 parts, steri-
lised bonemeal 10 parts, coarse
salt eight parts, slaked lime four
parts, sulphur four parts, sul-
phate of iron one part.
“Billjim”: A wet spray, one
to 200, of D.D.T. stops white
grub, one of the most persistent
pests in strawberry beds. After
first digging the patch force the
spray down around the roots
with an ordinary knapsack-
pump. Mildew in the crop may
be combated by mixing two parts
of lime to one of sulphur.
“Bat”: If suspended in
creosote oil (bristles only) for a
week or so, the old paint will
come away and paint-brushes
can then be washed in kerosene,
rinsed in warm suds and dried.
When quite dry keep them away
from damp until needed. When
next used the brushes should be
well cleansed and dried as soon
as work is completed, then put
away in a dry cupboard.


o
s®
V®
The new British-made Blroette Ball
Point Pen, complete with cap and clip
costs a mere 15/-. You’ll admire the
graceful lines of Blroette—a newcomer to
the Biro family. You’ll like it because -
It’s so slender ... fits neatly in your pocket
or handbag . . . and so light ... it
glides over the paper like thistle-down.
Biroette is available In three attractive
colours, black, grey and maroon. The refills
are specially designed for long life. You
can buy as many as you want for 2/M each.
Test the Biroette today . . . see how
effortlessly it writes.
At Stationers, Jewellers and Stores
REFILLS 2/11 EACH
SLEEK & LIGHT
Patent No. 122073 dated Dec. 8, 1943. Other patents pending.
BEt-IS
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
tbe highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIIXTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers Jor lots SOlh,
weight or over,
Write to: Cash Order Dept.*
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane*
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders,
It’ll make a wonderful
difference to
car, too!
HERE’S WHAT USERS SAY
ABOUT THIS NEW KIND OF
TYRE
Mr. Austin Dwyer, Motor
Distributor, Wollongong,
N.S.W,: “Super-Cushions
made a remarkable dif-
ference to the all-round
riding comfort of my car.
Even after the longest journey, 1 felt less fatigued man
if I had travelled a quarter of the distance on ordinary
tyres.”
I S
mmmm
FD
BHBELIEVABIY SMOOTHER #
air, but 28 »
alr instead ot tM rout.
oo Shocks are cud
Thousands of Super-Cushions
are already in use in Australia,
on new and older cars. If you
want the smoothest ride you’ve
ever had, more car economy
and greater safety, switch to
Super-Cushions. ISee your
Goodyear Dealer today!
FD
BY
GOODLY tAR
C2O-J**
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
the No. I Dink
for wise men
“A s.c. flat, flatette, marry in Octo-
ber. Keen gardener.”
—Suburban paper.
No herbaceous boarders
wanted.
4* 4* 4*
“Howard obeyed and Dad picked
him up. ‘This poor kid’s subject to
nightfares,’ he said to his friends.”
—“New Idea’ 1 ’ story.
If he didn’t walk the floor
with him there was the devil to
pay.
4* 4* 4*
Despite the coalminers’ claim
that they reserve their right to
strike, their “lefts” have been
doing all the leading.
4* 4* 4*
“Any childless couple under 45
should be taxed 6s. Bd. in the £l.”
—Letter to Sydney daily.
Then they would soon add a
third to their family budget.
4* 4* 4*
“I heartily agree that one should
not stay on holidays with relatives.”
—“New Idea.”
Relations are so apt to be-
come strained.
“Why does a swim.mer always sink
feet-first, and not head-first or
evenly?”— Correspondent in Sydney
“Telegraph
He’s so accustomed these days
to the struggle to keep his head
above water.
4* 4* 4*
“It’s a shame that so much oppro-
brium now attaches to the fine old
word comrade.” —Sydney “Sun."
Its very mention is. beginning
to make unionists see red.
Insupportable.
You're ill-at-ease or diffident; in
fact, you feel undone
And conscious of the cross
you bear, no matter
where you go.
You even get embarrassed, and
imagine ev’ryone
Around you shares your
secret, though, of course,
this isn’t so.
You feel that you are ham-
strung, or, say, hoppled
like a nag;
It aggravates the cause of your
discomfort to make
haste;
But, finally, you shove ’em in
your wife's soft-dusters
bag
When self-supporting under-
pants get loose around
the waist.
P. O. M. C.
Snappy.
“Can anyone explain the delays
that occur when one writes for per-
mits for housing materials?’’
—Letter to newspaper.
When I began building my
house I naturally thought of
Benderby, a club-member whose
golf-bag had sprouted a real
forest of sticks and whose
handicap had dropped by 35
since he had gained an executive
position with Building Controls,
1 found him Deputy-Controller
of Sash Cords, with a sideline
in curtain-rods, and asked him
about tap-washers and whether
I should buy now or wait until
controls were lifted.
He gave me a puzzled frown.
“Not my department,” he de-
clared ; but he took up a, phone:
“Six-nine-seven. Hullo, Geoff?
How are washers? Oh, I didn’t
know you’d been transferred to
light-flex. How is the golf?
Grand, Played myself yester-
day. Well, I’ll try Arthur on the
washers. Good-bye.”
So it went on. We found that
Arthur was now on picture-rails,
that the next, Albert, had gone
into sinks, and that Ern, the one
he put us on to, was in wall-
paper pastel - shades only.
Benderby pondered for some
minutes and then announced,
“There’s a cross-index in J.C.’s
office telling just who does
what. We’ll try them. Switch,
give me one-oh-one. Hullo,
sir, Benderby here. Who handles
tap-washers? Me ? Been my
department since Christmas, eh?
Didn’t know, but thank you, sir,
thank you! ”
With a glow of real pride he
turned to me and advised me to
apply now. After I’d filled in
the form he found for me he
shook my hand and bade me
good-bye, whispering, “You
don’t know how lucky you are
that you didn’t apply by letter
—full of red-tape. This way,
with me here batting for you, it
won’t take a day more than six
months.”
PLOP.
“Just one more and We'll be able to play 'big-ring' "
Damn the Expense!
The s.s. Partizonka was
bound from Zara to Melbourne
with a full complement of
migrants.
It was not until they were in
the middle of the Indian Ocean
that the glad tidings were con-
veyed by the captain to the
assembled migrants that he
had received a message from
the Commissar for Immigra-
tion in Australia that the
ship had on board his
60,000 th New Australian, and
that in view of the importance
of this event, coupled with his
own, he would personally make
a gift to the lucky one of a spray
of orchids. As the Commissar
was then attending an A.L.P.
rally at Darwin, he had arranged
for the ship to be diverted from
its scheduled first port of call,
Fremantle, so as to proceed
there.
The news caused great excite-
ment, especially among the
female migrants, particularly as
hundreds of photos of the Com-
missar taken 20 years ago had
been distributed around the ship
—in fact, the photo almost
rivalled that of Marshal Tito,
complete with all the medals he
had pinned on himself for
standing up so bravely to so
many camera-shots.
When the Partizonka had got
within about 100 miles of Dar-
win the captain received radio
orders to turn about and make
for Fremantle, M. Calwell hav-
ing left Darwin to attend a
Caucus faction fight in Mel-
bourne. He would go to Fre-
mantle by special plane from
there for the ceremony.
In the meantime a tanker had
to be dispatched from Adelaide
to refuel the migrant ship at
Broome, the long diversion hav-
ing eaten up her oil reserves. It
was another five weeks before the
Partizonka reached Fremantle,
but by then Mr. Calwell had
gone to Tasmania on his elec-
tion tour, so the ship was ordered
to proceed direct to Hobart,
though none of the migrants
were bound for the island.
But when the Partizonka
reached Hobart the Minister
wasn’t there —he was then in
Cairns, having been co-opted by
the P.M. to join “Fixer” Hashley
in tearfully imploring the
wharfies on strike there to go
back to work, at least until after
the elections, otherwise it might
militate against “Labor’s”
chances at the polls. The ship
was ordered to go straight to
Cairns for the presentation, after
which it could go back to
Adelaide to discharge the first
batch of migrants as per
original schedule.
“Cocky” was still at his ab-
ject pleadings when the Parti-
zonka arrived. But the great
moment for the presentation was
not yet. The Minister found
that his prepared speech in
the Slav tongue had been left in
Canberra, and there was a de-
lay while the specially-chartered
T.A.A. airliner brought it. Aus-
tralia’s champion bull - artist
donned his Sunday best when it
arrived, and, armed with his
trusty spray of the very best
orchids and wearing his famous
smirk, went aboard.
It was the assistant chief clerk
to the Fourth Immigration Liai-
son Officer on the ship who read
out —or tried to read out—the
name of the 60,000 th migrant:
Octave Nikclwokjcik. As
“Cocky” preened himself and
adjusted his tie a figure in a
bowler-hat, long overcoat, long
beard and a huge, bulging suit-
case, shuffled forward.
“Cocky” fell back slightly
shaken. But gallantly he read his
stuff and passed over the
orchids, though this time he re-
frained from conferring the
famous labial salutation.
When he got back to the
Trades Hall a telegram was
handed to him. It read “Con-
gratulations on reaching the
70,000 mark. Menzies.”
“Cocky” tapped the ’gram.
“That’s the Libs, all over,” he
rasped. “Inaccurate again.
Don’t even know it’s the sixty-
thousandth New Australian we
celebrate,” ]
“I think it refers to some-
thing else, sir,” said his secre-
tary. “Research Service has just
estimated that as the cost of
presenting the orchids!”
BO.
A Ring-in.
“The miners were sold a pup they
should recognise in future.”
—Sydney “D.T.’ f
Those miners must need bibs
and feeders
Who fail to see that Comma
leaders
Had sold them cunningly a pup
And in so doing filled their cup
Full to the brim with wretched-
ness.
Yet it is foolish to express
Belief that miners are so wise
As easily to recognise
This animal if it appears
On coalfields in the coming
years,
For with the role that Joe allots
This Comma pup can change its
spots.
D. H. E.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others per line.
Railways
“State” control of Australia’s various
multi-gauge railways is as out of date as
the bustle; Australia will never amount
to a row of beans as a nation while we
retain the present narrow “State” out-
look.
Production for export should be en-
couraged to flow to the nearest port;
that for domestic consumption should
flow freely to and from the best markets.
What happens today? A proposal to
link the North-west with N. S. Wales,
which would lead to production of more
cattle, is defeated by Queensland. Aus-
tralia needs those cattle badly, but the
proposed line would take them away from
Brisbane. Wheatgrowers in the Southern
Riverina are compelled to rail their wheat
to Pyrmont, whence it travels by sea via
Melbourne. Sydney gains while Australia
loses by the waste of* power involved in
hauling the grain over the ranges instead
of on the shorter and almost level run to
Melbourne. Two instances only out of
many.
A possibly more important objection
lies in the present taxation set-up. In the
bad old days when the populated area
was still increasing the position was fairly
simple. States could build developmental
lines secure in the knowledge that, even
if more-settled districts didn’t produce
enough profit to cover loss on working
the lines, the States could always fall
back on their own income tax.
. Today the profit has been eaten into
by competing services ; income tax is lost
to the States, and there’s an absurd
tendency to treat these developmental
railways as revenue-producers and to cut
back expenditure on them regardless of
the effect on our economy—the national
economy, that is; it may be quite a good
idea from the State point of view. A
State Premier has actually declared that
it would be better to lose millions of
sheep through drought than have non-
paying branch lines!
The Commonwealth aims to run all
coastal shipping. It provides most of the
facilities for air transport and will prob-
ably be running the lot in a few years.
It hands out the cash for roadmaking and
maintenance. It is absurd to suggest,
in the face of all this, that the States
can continue to give the rail-transport
service which the country must have if
it is going to get anywhere.—Trans-
porticus (Singapore).
Craftsmanship
“Metax” (B. 13/7/’49) is correct in
saying that trade-unions do nothing to
encourage skilled craftsmanship. All
they are concerned about at present is
increased membership.
Fifty years ago each craft in the build-
ing trade had its union. Carpenters had
two, an English and an Australian, and
both awarded prizes annually to out-
standing apprentices. Today carpenters,
joiners, bricklayers and, indeed, ships’-
joiners are grouped under the Com-
munist - controlled Building Trades
Union, which is no longer concerned
about craftsmanship.
But the unions alone are not respon-
sible for the dearth of skilled artisans and
the absence of the pride in their work
which was so pronounced among joiners
of a generation ago. The minimum wage
and the labor shortage are largely to
blame.
As manager of a workshop employing
hundreds of artisans of all trades, I had
many opportunities of noting the resent-
ment and frustration displayed by clever,
hard-working tradesmen, who protested
against being paid the same wage as the
botch. However, nothing could be done
about it, because it is illegal to pay an
employee more than award wages.
A simple and effective way of improv-
ing the status of competent tradesmen
would be to oblige all artisans and
mechanics to submit themselves to a
trade test. Results would then deter-
mine their classification as first-, second-
er third-grade workmen.
Then the outstanding artisan or
mechanic would receive a wage com-
mensurate with his skill and be en-
couraged to turn out his best work. Em-
ployers also would get value for their
money.— Old Carp (N.S.W.)!
Secret Ballot
If we are all so keen on the secret
ballot why not introduce it where it will
do the most good—in Parliament itself?
Some interesting results would almost
certainly be obtained, and I can’t see that
it would cause any damage to true Par-
liamentary government. It would cer-
tainly be better than the present rather
barbarous Whip system and the blatant
dragooning along sheer party lines
evils against which • Parliamentarians
argue when pointing out the shortcom-
ings of the open vote in union matters.
—R. H. G. (W.A.).
Who Won the Strike?
“Dick Turpin” (B. 10/8 / ’49) claims
that the credit for beating the Corns in
the coal strike should go to the people,
who put up with hardships and restric-
tions, and not to Mr. Chifley. Actually,
neither the people nor the P.M. need
slap themselves on the back, because the
only victory was won by the Corns them-
selves. The tremendous loss of wages
and production, the aftermath of priva-
tion and the hardship and misery caused
to countless thousands of innocents dur-
ing the seven-odd weeks of strike, were
all envisaged and planned by the Corns
as a step nearer to revolutionary condi-
tions when they sooled the miners into
striking.
Undoubtedly the miners themselves
were well and truly licked by the Govern-
ment, but the Corns are the ones who
should be patting each other on the back.
They, no doubt, have by this received the
plaudits and congratulations of Uncle
Joe for their highly successful efforts in
administering another kick to Australia
down the easy slope to chaos.
Chifley could have beaten the Corns
if he had had the courage to call for a
secret ballot as soon as the strike started.
But no ; he just sat back and did sweet
nothing, and as a result the case of
Chifley v. the Communists resulted in a
horrible hiding for his Government and
the people it is supposed to represent, —
P. T. Lux (Q.).
North Wallarah miners’ lodge carried
a motion by 120 votes to 10, outlawing
Communists from official positions in the
lodge, and recommended that no Com-
muuist hold office in the Miners’ Federa-
tion.
Workers,are realising that they have
been badly misled by false propaganda.
Promises of benefits by Stalin’s stooges
are too often proved baseless. The only
“benefits” are misery in the home and a
lot of financial leeway to make up.
With rare exceptions workers have had
no opportunity to see the birthplace of
their troubles. They have gained false
impressions from travellers who should
know better. Well-known figures, some
of good education, have entered Soviet
territory, and have succumbed to Com-
munist outpourings of the supposed
advantages of life under the regime.
Bernard Shaw praised the Soviet; Jessie
Street extols its—to her —virtues ; Ernest
Thornton claims to have seen thousands
of workers’ homes there —“superior to
those of the rest of the world” ; and the
“Red Dean” explained in his book The
Socialist Sixth of the World why he con-
siders that Russia has achieved all those
things which are claimed to make her the
earthly paradise.
These special visitors are carefully
shepherded on their tours so that they
will see only the Kremlin crew’s show-
case, and are debarred from seeing how
average citizens live in those parts of
Russia “iron-curtained” from them.
The only globetrotter who sees normal
Soviet living standards is the merchant
seaman. He is the one traveller for whom
the way cannot be completely prepared,
and he sees much which is a closed book
to others, although attempts are made to
blind him to realities. Visiting various
seaports he sees the ordinary people, their
homes and their conditions of work, for
he is virtually working beside them.
During my several voyages to Russian
Black Sea ports, Communist-club repre-
sentatives took crews ashore on tours of
“enlightenment.” One of these tours
took me on a Russian ship—one of six
built for overseas trade to impress the
“slaves” of the capitalistic world. The
accommodation was palatial and was
such that I, who had always served in
ships with a good reputation for crews’
welfare, had never visualised for the
master, let alone for the rank and file.
But when we wanted to visit ships built
for normal trading, polite excuses formed
an “iron curtain.”
Later, at the Communist Club, a beer-
and-games party was followed by a
lecture. Advantages to be showered upon
us should our country turn to Russia for
political guidance were listed —we “would
all be captains or chief engineers.” In
Sydney’s Domain equally extravagant
promises are made by Joe’s local stooges.
They are ridiculed by some, but swallowed
whole by those with no power of
analytical thought. After many years, the
Russian masses lack the promised bless-
ings, and do not appear likely to have
them. Yet Stalin’s dupes over the face of
the earth promise that such shall be ours
if we support their hopeless fight.
Attendance at meetings and conversa-
tions with miners in the Newcastle
(N.S.W.) area convince me that they and
other workers are in the pight mood to
welcome and absorb anti-Communist
instruction. — Tackline S. (N.S.W.).'
Defence
“T. E. Signal” (B. 27/7/’49) has ele-
mentary ideas on strategy and defence.
The vulnerable coasts of the “world’s
largest island” extend from Broome to
Brisbane. A hostile Power could launch
airborne offensives from any island con-
tained in two sectors of a great arc ex-
tending from Flores to New Caledonia.
Even Chifley’s present taxation scale
could not pay for enough airstrips and
land-based striking forces to defend such
a vast area at all points. Interceptor air-
craft have only short ranges. My money
is on an airfield that can steam from
Townsville to Cape York and operate
from somewhere in the middle of the
Arafura Sea.
“T. E. Signal” asks can we afford the
“glamor” of two flat-tops. Can we afford
to do without them? Even more im-
portant than the ships are the crews being
trained in them. I hope that the present
two vessels will be the training-ground for
enough officers and ratings to man 22
carriers. And large “fleet-carriers” at
that. — Salt Horse Pom (Vic.).
“Labor” Leadership
An interesting feature of the leader-
ship of the late John Curtin and of
Chifley has been their apparent desire at
all times to placate the vocal elements
of the Labor party. In taking that atti-
tude they forget the larger element of
Labor supporters —the middle - class
voters, small farmers and graziers, little
business people, contractors and others —
who win the elections for them.
Since the days of W. IVL Hughes, when
the split occurred in the party, it seems
that the dominant thought of Labor
leaders has been to hold their followers
together at the expense of the country’s
welfare,
Curtin avoided conscription in war-
time and then brought in a half-hearted
measure, under pressure, for overseas
service. The present P.M. is dancing
similarly to the tune being played by the
coalminers.
Eventually Labor will be cast out for
a decade or so, when forthright, straight-
forward leadership would have saved the
day.—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Full Employment
Those seeking the goal of “full employ-
ment” in This country are apt to forget
our seasonal industries. Harvests such as
wheats sugar, peanuts, fruit of various
kinds and even vegetables like peas, beans
and potatoes demand a pool of surplus
labor which can be drawn upon when
the necessity arises. The work must be
done quickly, consequently many hands
are needed. The same applies to the
slaughtering of cattle and treatment of
carcasses, the manufacture of sugar and
the processing of certain other com-
modities.
- If all labor is fully employed on regular
jobs the year round no such pool is avail-
able. And nature does not accommodate
herself to the availability of labor by dis-
tributing her harvests evenly throughout
the year.
During recent years of maximum
employment the serious dearth of labor
for such industries has necessitated the
use of large numbers of displaced persons
from Europe. While in the earlier stages
of barrack-life this labor can be directed
and transferred as required, the gradual
absorption of the migrants into our
national economy (as is desired and advo-
cated by the Government) will render
impossible moving them in gangs from
place to place. Then the same old
problem of getting enough labor will
again arise.
In several of the seasonal industries,
such as cane-harvesting, very high wages
have been paid because of the arduous
nature of the job and its seasonal char-
acter. In the past many cane-cutters took
no regular work in the slack season,
accepting odd jobs only while improving
their own homes. They were able to live
well. Government efforts to keep down
unemployment figures by providing road-
making and other work in the off season
was often money ill-spent because the
slack period included the long wet season
in Queensland, and much of the time paid
for was spent in the camps.
It seems that with so-called “full
employment,” the problem of obtaining
labor for seasonal work in Australia will
become more and more acute and more
costly.— Will S. Pryce (Q.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 32
Across.
I—lndians see the brave man search
in return. (9)
6—Fabric causes vexation. (5)
§-Who Lee led to defeat a sheep.
(9)
10— Fasten a famous waltz by
Delibes. (5)
11— Mixed beast or Edward. (8)
12— Bashful Aunt Sally. (3)
15— Land of eastern fury. (4)
16 — Compatriot peer joined by a
famous Australian swimmer who
swallows 1000. (10)
19— Chief rings seen on “switch.” (10)
20— Dog runs back to run fluently.
, < 4 >
23 The total of the Little Aus-
tralians and the Weeks in a Bal-
loon less the total of the Horse-
men of the Apocalypse and the
Keys to Baldpate. (3)
24 Souvenirs for me, the fellows
and a drunk who staggers back-
ward. (8)
28— Refrigerant in changing Boadi-
cea’s people. (5)
29 Hat of my principal piano work.
(9)
30 — Like some employment for pickle.
31— Propositions put .before the girls.
(9).
(cryptic type.)
(.Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1 — Doctor’s client had consumption
in order to turn into cheese, (7)
2 Neat squire mounted badly. (10)
3 To upset that woman’s who get
a good deal in the Golden Rule.
(6)
4 Call up the original woman who
is all right at heart. (5)
5 Warbled of a Chinese dynasty.
(4)
6 They steal a peg to see that
woman’s. (8)
7 Sovereign chunk of tobacco. (4)
8 — Dodge is to save up with Mr.
Idriess. (7)
13 — One time. (4)
14 — She is the equal of a running
bird and the French lock. (10)
17 — Its owner finds living a bit of a
blow. (4)
18 — Range’ of a writer on the base-
ball team. (8)
19 — Harasses Truman, the victor of
Agincourt, and England’s most-
married monarch. (7)
21 — Such clean people relieve friction
before she enters the battles. (7)
22 Oracular place led up to the 21st
letter of the Greek alphabet. (6)
25 —Cheer the spirit. (5)
26 The fellows you finish in the
dining programme. (4)
27 Crack this bloke. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 31.


The
LIBERAL
Objective
Every man to
.... EARN MORE
. ..PRODUCE MORE
... CONSUME MORE
....OWN MORE
What we —the Liberal Party—have to offer the Australian people is clear cut and distinct.
We promise the Australian people relief from the thraldom of the extreme left—from
Socialists and Communists.
We are pledged to support decent Australian Trade Unionism—to ensure that the
wishes of the majority of Australian Trade Unionists shall prevail without improper
interference by the Government of the day.
We are pledged to ensure that the Australian worker gets a fair and generous deal.
We will give the Australian people decent commonsense leadership—without side-
stepping any issue.
We want every man to earn more —to produce more —to consume more —and to own
more —and we will do all the many things necessary and possible to bring this about.
Authorised by D. M. Cleland, 30 Ash St., Sydney.
