

CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN!
0 Have you friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then, is news that must
interest you. Just imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
in the same wine twelve thousand miles away! Yes, that’s possible through the “WINE-FOK-
BBITAIN” scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their London Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. You’ll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts “Wine-For-Britain” scheme: Write to The House of Seppelt, Box 1422 H G.P.O.
Adelaide, South Australia, ’ ’
as
sons
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70-No, 3635
Wednesday, October 12, 1949
Price 6d,
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
gJIR EDWARD ELGAR, the great
British composer, was born in 1857
at Upper Broadheath, three miles from
Worcester, -in this small four-roomed
cottage, which has become a museum of
Elgar treasures by which the memory of
the great composer is preserved.
Elgar was practically self-taught both
as a conductor and composer, and his
early years were spent in teaching music.
Among his best known works is the
“Dream Of Gerontius,” which is one of
the finest works in British choral music ;
composed in 1902 it was at first received
with indifference, but later it became
widely popular and is now world
renowned. Elgar devoted most of his
time to choral writing, and his “King
Olaf,” “Caractacus,” and “The Kingdom”
are deservedly popular. His orchestral
works include the fine “Enigma” varia-
tions and the overture “In The South.”
His two military marches, “Pomp and
Circumstance” and the “Coronation
Ode,” were inspired by the coronation of*
King Edward VII, and his “Land of
Hope and Glory” ranks as a national
song.
Honours were showered on Elgar ; he
received a knighthood, was admitted to
the highest of honours, the Order of
Merit; and became Master of the King’s
Musick in 1924. In spite of these great
honours he remained simple and un-
assuming, and upon his death was buried
in the churchyard of St. Wulstan’s, a
church in Little Malvern, in England’s
“Little Switzerland.”
SIR EDWARD ELGAR’S BIRTHPLACE IS HIS MEMORIAL NOW


Lki
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. AOE..
The Red Page
A BIBLE TRANSLATION.
Some few months back a ship steamed
into Sydney Harbor carrying in its hold
printed sheets of the latest translation of
the Bible —the first part of the Old Testa-
ment (Genesis-Esther), “newly translated
from the Latin Vulgate” by Mgr. Ronald
A. Knox, and printed by Burns Oates
and Washboprne, London; the sheets
consigned to Angus and Robertson,
Sydney, which firm will put on the bind-
ings for Australian distribution.
Going back-a trifle of 414 years, the
Vulgate, too, was at least a principal
source used by Miles Coverdale for his
translation in the first complete Bible
printed in the English language, and
{vide J. R. Dore: Old Bibles) “This Bible
was printed by Jacob van Meteren at
Antwerp, and was sent to Nicolson, of
Southwark, in sheets, as an Act of Parlia-
ment had been passed a year or two pre-
viously for the protection of native in-
dustry, prohibiting the introduction of
bound books into England.”
Dofe wished that Coverdale had
used only the one, source named: “The
Vulgate was one of the principal bases
of his translation, and fortunate it would
have been had it been the only source
from which his translation was made;
but he owns to have consulted ’five
sundry interpreters,’ and it is evident that,
in many cases, he was led astray by
Luther and the Swiss Bible.”
That may be thought a little hard on
Martin Luther, who is appraised as hav-
ing turned out one of the three supreme
translations of the Bible, the other two
being the Latin Vulgate itself and the
English Authorised Version. But, at all
events. Mgr. Knox falls into none of the
assorted blunders and misreadings by
others which have misled sundry im-
provers ambitious to produce a Bible that
might not be caviare to the general.
Though he continually consults both the
Greek and the Hebrew texts in the
original compilations, he does so, with a
few notable exceptions, for the purpose
of indicating differences (always interest-
ing and sometimes important) and making
clarifying comparisons and additions, in
his most commendably compact notes at
the foot of the pages.
To a text so richly woven of folklore,
these notes have the effect of adding the
special interest and much of the identical
flavor of Frazer’s Folklore in the Old
Testament (e.g., the surely fascinating
note: “According to the Hebrew text....
the servant gave Rebecca not ear-rings,
but a ring for the nose”). But so far
from Mgr. Knox’s having fallen into the
pitfalls of misreadings and blunders made
by other translators, a criticism of his
work might be that it often suggests a
too-determined straining to be different,
especially from that inevitable rival of
any serious English translation, the
Authorised Version. This particular
fault (if it is one) of overdiffering seems
to be persisted in even when Mgr. Knox’s
accompanying explanatory notes would
appear to warrant, if not demand, a
similar rendering. The results are not
always happy and are sometimes close to
disastrous.
A fair retort to that criticism might
be that Mgr. Knox’s translation —
as notable for readableness as for
scholarship—is not a translation of the
Authorised Version but, like its own pre-
cise prototype the Douai Bible of Gregory
Martin, published in 1609-10, is a trans-
lation of the Vulgate; and if that
source gives, for instance, instead
of the poetic image of “Behold,
there ariseth a little cloud out of the sea,
like a man’s hand,” the prose, not to say
prosaic, description “a little cloud shewed,
no bigger than a man’s footprint,” then
that, no doubt, has its right to be
accepted with whatever grace can be
mustered. And the same may hold good
though the land that was flowing with
milk and honey becomes that geological
phenomenon “a land all milk and honey,”
and though Pharaoh’s “taskmasters of
the people and their officers” become
Pharao’s “clerk of works -and foreman.”
But the point of criticism —that is, of
a seeming too-determined aim to be dif-
ferent —can also be taken (as merely an-
other instance) on such a further
phenomenon as the total disappearance
of Eden from the Bible of Mgr. Knox’s
translation. Instead, we have, “Already
he had planted a garden of delight, in
which he now placed the man he had
formed,” which, despite any unfortunate
associations attaching to “delight,” would
also at least evade the criticism if it were
not for Mgr. Knox’s illuminating note:
“The Hebrew word translated ‘already’
may also mean ‘out in the east,’ and the
word translated ‘delight’ may be taken as
a proper name, Eden.” Or, as the
Authorised Version in fact has it, “And
the Lord God planted a garden eastward
in Eden ; and there he put the man whom
he had formed.”
Nor—apart from the sheer inevitable-
ness of jt—is comparison with that in-
evitable rival critically unfair or un-
warranted. Actually, it can be con-
sidered invited by the quotation from
Mgr. Knox’s On Englishing the Bible:
“For centuries we have been lacking a
literary translation for the benefit of
a person who wants to be able to read
the word of God for ten minutes on end
without laying it aside in sheer boredom
or bewilderment.”
That might, of course, depend on who
is meant by “we,” though no ordinary
reader, such as Mgr. Knox could have
had in mind, would dispute the truth of
the challenge in regard to the
accepted English Bible as it is still com-
monly issued, and as it was when Sir
Arthur Quiller-Couch, in his Cambridge
lectures on it in 1918 (included in On the
Art of Reading), described it as “at once
the most majestic thing in • our literature
and by all odds the most spiritually living
thing we inherit,” and yet as good as pro-
nounced it unreadable in that form—a
hotchpotch of assorted entirely different
kinds of literary productions, the
poetry printed as prose, all the long para-
graphs of prose broken up into short
“verses,” the whole peppered over with
italics and numerals, and printed in
double columns, “with a marginal gutter
on either side, each gutter pouring down
an inky flow of references and cross-
references,”
All true enough; fully justifyihg Mgr.
Knox’s challenging criticism and with it
his translation. But in point of fact, since
Quiller-Couch lectured, and following
exactly the way he indicated, there has
been published a complete answer to any
challenge of unreadableness, The Bible,
Designed to be Read as Literature, edited
and arranged by Ernest Sutherland Bates ;
which, as it happens, has newly been re-
printed by Heinemann. Large, and in fact
beautiful, type; prose printed as prose,
poetry as poetry, dialogue as dialogue,
drama as drama, letters as letters; no
marginal distractions; brief, informative
introductions instead of footnotes ; spel-
ling and punctuation modernised;
genealogies, repetitions and such heavi-
ness as Chronicles omitted —a thoroughly
readable book for anyone capable of
reading a book at all.
The question might well occur as to
whether anyone who could not read that
without laying it aside in boredom and
bewilderment would be at all likely to
treat Mgr. Knox’s translation any better.
This translation certainly is most read-
able ; but it is, first of all, the Bible, not
some “popular” substitute for the Bible.
It is a prose translation, but it is prose of
dignity; and that, regrettable as it may
be, is not the surest of passports for one
seeking to approach readers at all subject
to boredom and bewilderment.
On this point of “bewilderment” it
might, perhaps, also be questioned
whether—leaving out altogether the mere
shock —anything like as much bewilder-
ment could arise from reading, say, the
familiar “Thus the heavens and earth
were finished and all the host of them,”
as from Mgr. Knox’s domestic: “Thus
heaven and earth and all the furniture of
them were completed.” This single
example may stand: it could be repeated
scores of times. But against it, and all its
fellows too, cbuld be set examples,
usually from the same passage and fre-
quently from the same page, wherein the
Knox rendering is at least the less be-
wildering ; is always “easier to reacj,”
and yet. in dignified prose; and is some-
times oh all counts preferable.
Instance that flippant old rag of self-
conscious mock-modesty the “verse” of
Genesis wherein the ragshops, too, may
be said to have had their genesis. It has,
of course, long been a biblical joke that
instead of the usual rendering “ they
sewed fig leaves together, and made them-
selves aprons,” the Geneva Bible won
immortal ridicule and the highest regard
of bibliomaniacs with the rendering
“made themselves breeches.” In con-
sequence, the Geneva translators have
had fixed on them a brand of stigma for
crude prudishness not entirely deserved,
they having ( vide friend Dore) probably
taken their rendering from Wycliffe’s
MS. Bible, which reads, “And whan yei
knewen yat ya were naked ya sewiden ye
levis of a fige tre and madin brechis.”
Now, Mgr. Knox has a different
rendering again, which (as any quotation
from him will do) illustrates the easy
readableness of his translation, but also
seems otherwise an improvement, not
only on “brechis” but on “aprons”:
“Then the eyes of both were opened, and
they became aware of their nakedness;
so they sewed fig-leaves together, and
made themselves girdles.” Or is it an
improvement?—a form of question liable
to remain after any fancied improvement
on what hag been well called “the master-
piece of all translations in world litera-
ture.”
It seems probable that Mgr. Knox may
have had only the Douai Bible in mind,
but, as just one more perhaps required
instance on the issue of “bewilderment”
and improvement in comparison with the
accepted greatest, read first Mgr, Knox’s
rendering:
So were heaven and earth made; heaven
and earth, alike of God’s fashioning. But
no woodland shrub had yet grown, no wild
plant yet sprung up; the Lord God had
not yet sent rain upon the ground, that
still had no human toil to cultivate it;
there was only spring-water which came up
fiom the earth, and watered its whole
surface. And now, from the clay of the
ground, the Lord God formed man,
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life,
and made man a living soul.
Now the bewiideringly involved ren-
dering of Authorised Version (confusing
italics included):
These are the generations of the heaven
and of the earth when they were created,
in the day that, the Lord God made the
earth and the heavens, and every plant of
the field before it was in the earth, and
every herb of the field before it grew;
for the Lord God had not caused it to
rain upon the earth, and there was not a
man to till the ground. But there went up
a mist from the earth, and watered the
whole face of the ground.
And the Lord God formed man of the
dust of the ground, and breathed into his
nostrils the breath of life; and man became
a living soul.
Obviously, what that cries aloud for
(in the name of readableness) is a little
sub-editing, and in The Bible, Designed
to be Read as Literature Bates sees to
it, and we have this:
In the day that the Lord God made the
earth and the heavens, and every plant
of the field before it was in the earfh, and
every herb of the field before it grew (for
the Lord God had not caused it to rain
upon the earth, and there was not a man to
till the ground) there went up a mist from
the earth, and watered the whole face of
the ground. And the Lord God formed
man of the dust of the ground, and
breathed into his nostrils the breath of life;
and man became a living soul.
The question whether one who could
not read that sort of rendering without
turning away in boredom and bewilder-
ment would be likely to read on and on
in Mgr. Knox’s own translation need not,
perhaps, be taken further; but Mgr.
Knox’s comment would still seem reason-
able applied to much of the Bible as
usually issued.
The qualities of Mgr, Knox’s valuable
contribution to scholarship and readable-
ness are abundantly, and wholly,
those of a great prose translation.
That points the deep difference between
this Knox translation and the Authorised
Version: not merely one of interpreta-
tion, or choice of equivalent phrase, or
sequence of narration; but a difference
that is fundamental in approach as well
as in treatment —the difference, that is,
between prose and poetry. And, of
course, because there is so much of poetry
at the source, and because, as Matthew
Arnold declared, “The effect of Hebrew
poetry can be preserved and transferred
in a foreign language as the effect of other
poetry cannof,” that amounts to a singu-
larly important, a singularly including or
excluding, difference.
And therein, also, would seem to lie
the explanation of the undoubted very
special excellence of Mgr. Knox’s ver-
sion of the New Testament, first pub-
lished in 1945, and lately reissued to
conform in size with the present first
volume and the forthcoming other
volume of his Old Testament version.
The outstanding merit of his New Testa-
ment would appear to arise essentially
from the nature of the original; itself
almost entirely direct prose statement,
and so naturally suited to translation in
prose. In contrast, so much of the Old
Testament is what isn’t is
often o£ so imaginative a kind that the
poetry approach to translating it is both
natural and required, as the translators
of the Authorised Version accepted.
The great rival—linking the Revised
Version with it —must be allowed to have
everything on its side in that respect;
by virtue of that, itself an original; stand-
ing alone. But the Knox translation,
too, on its own prose plane, has its own
distinct, if not equal, qualities; more
direct, and hence altogether clearer, de-
scription ; a similarly clear distinctiveness
in characterisation ; oratory that rings to
the ear as natural speech landscapes and
other settings as visible as something seen
and known; incidents that leap in a light
of reality; the movement and flow of
great prose narrative,
Samson (particularly), Moses, David
and many of the rest are not mere uni-
formly presented abstractions; they are
alive, natural, human and individual.
The general simplicity and narrative style
are of this kind; “It was thus Moses
spoke to the people of Israel while they
were still on the other side of Jordan,
in the desert plain that looks towards the
Red Sea ” The inspired speech of
Moses on that occasion stands out in this
translation as an amazing example of
Oratory at its greatest, ancient or modem.
The story of Joseph (in construction as
well as in content) reads as one of the
very greatest of all short stories. The
translation as a whole gives the impres-
sion of conjuring up complete the ancient
setting and its great human story.
Whether or not that abiding nature of
the Old Testament as a truly human
record gains anything from the very
human freedom of misprints in the
London edition, these have no doubt all
been cleared up by now. But it might
be wished that one at least of them could
survive. An addition to be made to the
already indicated differences in this trans-
lation is that the translator, in his own
words, has “kept to the Latin spelling of
names.” No doubt as good a rule as
any, but one which replaces the familiar
with unfamiliar names that take getting
used to. Some of them —“a queen of
Saba,” “Chanaan” and so forth —hardly
call for an interpreter, but some are de-
cidedly strange. One of the least so is
Josue: none the less likeable the mis-
print when —Josue apparently at last
overcoming the comp, also —Josue be-
comes Josua, The typesetter might have
had the grace to do the same good deed
for Noe; just one bearded Noa,
C.M.
The Ancient Mariner.
Bernard Martin’s The Ancient Mariner
and the Authentic Narrative (Heinemann)
offers a new theory as to one of the
sources of “The Ancient Mariner”;
namely, that it derives in part from the
autobiographical story of a blasphemer
converted to Christianity through his
terror- in a storm at sea, told by John
Newton, a contemporary of Coleridge,
in his Authentic Narrative.
Like most scholars with a new theory
to offer Mr. Martin overstates his case at
times. He compares nine extracts from
the Authentic Narrative with what he
submits as comparable stanzas from the
ballad; and one can hardly agree with
him lhat when Newton writes, “We were
awakened by the joyful shouts of the
watch proclaiming the sight of land. We
were all soon raised at the sound,” the
Narrative has any significantly close re-
semblance to the lines:
I bit my arm and suck’d the blood
And cry’d, A sail! a sail!
Nor is their much perceptible similarity
between, “Our fair wind subsided into a
calm” and, from the first draft of “The
Ancient Mariner”:
. As idle as a painted Ship
Upon a painted Ocean.
Mr. Martin, moreover, descends to a
little judicious short-quotation to support
his theory. Only one of his nine points—
leaving aside the question of a general
atmospheric similarity between poem and
Narrative —seems really impressive:
when Newton writes “It may indeed be
questioned, whether our ship was not the
very first that had been in that part of
the ocean,” and when Coleridge writes:
We were the first that ever burst
Into that silent Sea.
But when one turns to the more sub-
stantial extracts from the Narrative which
are printed at the end of the essay, and
finds that what Newton really said was,
It may indeed be questioned whether our
ship was not the very first that had been
in that part of the ocean, at the same
season of the year,
the similarity becomes far less remark-
able.
Mr. Martin is, nevertheless, an un-
usually modest theorist. He admits the
veracity or probability of earlier investi-
gations into the sources of the poem.
Wordsworth, he recalls, said that it grew
from a talk when Coleridge recalled a
dream of his friend Cruickshank about
a spectral ship manned by ghosts and
when Wordsworth, who had been reading
in Shelvocke’s Voyages about the killing
of an albatross which was thought to
have brought bad luck, suggested that
the Ancient Mariner should commit this
crime—a story so obviously true that to
this day no one can understand why
Coleridge told De Quincey that Shelvocke
had nothing to do with the poem.
Then, though doubtful of the notion
that the personality of the Ancient
(i Continued on inside back cover.)


'TRUTH®IN ADVERTISING”
ITHOM HORDERNS’
/7?rv-
iyn
v.
English Trout Spinning Reel with automatic
pick-up, free spool and tension. Price, £lO/7/6.
The largest range
of Trout Geai
Large illustration at right.
Milward’s Flymaster Split Cane
two tips. Price, £2O/15/-.
Hardy’s Unique Trout Reel,
3-J:in. Price, £5/7/6.
Unillustrated.
Hardy’s Perfect Trout Reel,
3*in. £7/10/-.
ms
V-
L
m
/ y
Vo\ M$ d: A
' ,
/VJ
V
<4
r H y y
PMm
mm
m
X:>
€1 S
mm
r-Z-J
\ A
■-/-
Sf
I;
Fishing Bags, Fawn material with five
compartments, leather bottom, net rings,
air cushion, shoulder strap, detachable
lining. Price . 75/-
Landing Nets. Triangular net, completely
collapsible. Prices: 65/-, 85/- and 115/-.
Triangular Net, all duralmm, not col-
lapsible. Priced at only 35 /- each.
Rod Bag goes with Milward’s on left.
c®3z}e£p*^
Good quality aluminium
Cast Cases with felt pad.
Priced at, each 6/6
* - '*
Aluminium Fly Cases
with partitions. 34in. x
2|xn. Price, each, 24/-.
k
Three of the numerous
Trout Flies available.
Wet, 9/-; Dry, 12/- doz.
P:;
Spoon Flashes with lead,
red bead. Half-inch, 1/6;
fin., 1/9; and lin., 2/-.
JJt/
fe„
Clear plastic Fly Box
fitted with partitions.
Priced at, each, 4/9
FISHING DEPARTMENT-LOWER PITT ST- BOX 2712 C, G.P.O.


EVERY
Labor Candidate
IS A SOCIALIST
CANDIDATE!
/ ,
“SOCIALISATION” complete control of your life and affairs, of your work,
your business and your savings by Government officials.
“Socialisation” means that every worker has to work where the Government tells him to work
“Socialisation” means that your children’s future will be decided by the Government. . .and that
every family will be made dependent upon the Government.
Most of the people who voted for Labor candidates at the last elections did not realise that they
were voting for a Government which was secretly planning to socialise Australia. They weren’t
told anything about it. They were deceived into believing that Labor Government and Socialism
were two different things. They are not. THEY ARE ONE AND THE SAME THING.
T HE liberal party stands for the very things—the decent things—which the labor
GOVERNMENT PRETENDED TO STAND FOR AT THE LAST ELECTIONS BUT OYER WHICH IT HAS FAILED YOU;
-'■' ■ ' 1 .... V>< \ \ •' • ''T/' f f ' ■>.- . ' . - V , '• s- , ''' ' \ ' ■ ~
• INCREASING PAY AND REASONABLE LIVING COSTS
• INCENTIVE PAYMENTS FOR INCREASED PRODUCTION
• RANK-AND-FILE CONTROL OF THE TRADE UNIONS .
THROUGH THE SECRET BALLOT
0 THE OUTLAWING OF COMMUNISM
Every LIBERAL Candidate is pledged to fight Socialisation
Authorised by D. M. Cleland, 30 Ash St.. Sydney t
FL6OA-49.


The Bulletin
Vol, 70—No. 3635
Wednesday, October 12, 1949
THE CUCKOO IN OUR NEST.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD.OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
CHIFLEY, SHARKEY & CO.
It is beyond doubt that Joseph Benedict
Chifley, Prime Minister of Australia, is
endorsed for party membership and poli-
tical office by the Australian Labor Party ;
but what the “Australian Labor Party” is
is something of a mystery. It used to be
possible to take it for granted that it was
synonymous with the Labor movement j
now it seems that though the “party”
may be an entity, the “movement” is a
partnership of which the proper firm-
name would be, if it were registered,
Chifley, Sharkey and Co.
The inside back-cover of the Official
Report of the Proceedings of the 18th
Commonwealth Triennial Federal Con-
ference of the Labor Party, for instance,
contains “The Australian Labor-party
Directory,” and this gives the names of
Parliamentary “Labor” leaders, of poli-
tical executives of the A.L.P. in the
various States, and of “Trades and Labor
Council secretaries,” so that it can be
taken for granted that the A.L.P. Federal
Executive, which acknowledges Mr.
Chifley as its leader, considers these latter
bodies as a section of the Labor party,
though one of the secretaries listed is
among the most prominent Communists
in the Commonwealth —no less than
Comrade M. Healy, alias McCracken, of
the Brisbane Trades Hall Council.
Other “Labor” councils consist of
almost as many Communists as “Labor”
men, and the relationships between them
and their fellows present some odd
features.
Certainly “Labor” rules are definite
enough on the point, and have been for
20 years. Rule two of the Australian
Labor Party, N. S. Wales, to which
Messrs. Chifley, Evatt, Ashley, Armstrong,
Ward, Rosevear, Scully and a host of
others owe their endorsement, reads, in
the latest printed (1945-46) edition:
Membership of the party shall consist
of:
(а) Members of affiliated unions.
(б) ‘Persons enrolled as members of the
organisation, who pledge themselves to
uphold the constitution, platform and
pledges of the organisation.
(c) Notwithstanding anything contained
in these rules, no member of the Com-
munist party or any other political party,
or a member of an auxiliary of the Com-
munist party or any other party, shall be a
member of the Australian Labor Party,
New South Wales branch.
This, on the face of it, looks decisive,
especially in view of the resolutions
passed at annual conferences stressing the
irrevocable gap between “Labor” and
Communist ideologies and the unswerv-
ing determination of the Australian Labor
Party, and particularly of the New South
Wales branch, to treat Communists like
the plague.
The 1946 conference of the branch
produced a resolution which “with-
out hesitation or qualification” rejected
“any pact, working-agreement or associa-
tion with the Communist party,” and de-
clared forthrightly that “the Communist
party’s and the Labor party’s differences
of philosophy and organisation cannot be
reconciled.” But this comminution and
the rule banning Communists and their
auxiliaries from the A.L.P. would
be far more impressive if the same
report of the conference had not
contained the information that the adop-
tion of the new rehabilitation programme
of the party was moved by a Mr. J.
Hooke, who at the previous year’s con-
ference had moved for the affiliation of
the Communist party with the A.L.P.,
and if it had not been seconded by Mr.
J. Healy, who was attending the A.L.P.
conference as a delegate, he at the same
time being a member of the central com-
mittee of the Communist party.
He is the same Mr. Healy who has
recently come out of Long Bay after
having flouted principles which Mr.
Chifley and his associates believe or
profess to believe that it is vital a
“Labor” man should pledge himself to
support. He is also the same Mr. Healy
to whom the Government has been pay-
ing fees as a member of the Steve-
doring Industry Commission while he was
flagrantly urging his followers in his union
to break “Labor”-made laws in respect
of industrial peace.
Surely the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion is a Communist auxiliary if ever
there was one. Its main leaders are Com-
munists, three of them on the central
committee of the party. Its journal, the
’“Wharfie,” was banned as a Communist
publication during the war, and was
afterwards published illegally by Comrade
Healy and his officers.
Yet to this day the Waterside Workers’
Federation or its branches are accepted
for membership of the N. S. Wales
A.L.P., and at the last conference, held
in June, 1949, its delegate moved several
resolutions. The Watersiders’ delegate
even took part in the debate on the
exclusion of Communists!
Be it said that the Waterside Workers
are not an exception to the queer “observ-
ance” of “Labor” rules about Communist
exclusion —not forgetting individuals, see-
ing that the president of the N. S. Wales
A.L.P. branch, Mr. Ferguson, and two
out of three of the board of trustees of
the branch were formerly Communist-
party or Communist auxiliary officials.
The Ironworkers Federation’s position
in the A.L.P. is an even more glaring
case.
There is not a tittle of doubt as to
whether the Ironworkers’ Federation is
or is not an auxiliary of the Communist
party. In July, 1948, Mr. Thornton, the
general-secretary, wrote in the “Com-
munist Review”;
And the general policy of the union, is
that decided in consultation with the
leaders of the Labor party?
No! The policy of the Ironworkers’
Union is decided in consultation with the
leaders of the Communist party. The great
achievements of the union in the past few
years should be credited to the Communist
party.
Moreover, the branches of the Iron-
workers’ Federation subscribe openly to
Communist election-campaign funds, and
their names appear in the subscription-
lists in the “Tribune.” Yet, despite this,
the Ironworkers’ Federation sections are
allowed to be members of the Australian
Labor Party. They participated in the
1949 conference of the N. S. Wales
A.L.P. last June without any obstruction
from the conference management or pro-
test from Mr. Chifley and his fellow-
Ministers and members who have to go to
the N. S. Wales branch of the party for
endorsement as “Labor” candidates.
The Federated Ironworkers’ Associa-
tion remains an integral part of the Aus-
tralian political “Labor” party, even
though at the present time its head-office
building in Sydney is being fortified with
grills and iron-bars in preparation for the
arrival of the headquarters of the Com-
munist party, moving from Marx House,
which the Commonwealth Government
has obligingly bought at a price which
gives the Communist party a profit of
£20,000.
Viewed dispassionately both as to
policy and composition, Mr. Chifley’s
Labor party and the official Communist
party are, and have been ever since 1940,
when Messrs. Beasley and Rosevear were
unanimous in agreeing that N. S. Wales
“Labor” had been completely captured by
Communism, very much like Tweedledee
and Tweedledum. And Mr. Chifley’s
announcement that his party is agreed
that “banning the Communist party
gets you nowhere” has a ring of sincerity
about it which is rare in his utterances.
For the present so-called “Labor” party
to try to impose a ban would represent
political suicide.
Socialist "Intellectual. "
A young university graduate of Adelaide
and Oxford (Rhodes Scholar, 1938 vin-
tage), Mr. L. F. Crisp, has written a book,
The Parliamentary Government of the
Commonwealth of Australia (Longmans
Green and Wakefield Press), after a period
of “exceptional opportunities of watching
at close range the Australian Parlia-
mentary and governmental machinery
in operation” (publisher’s statement), as
chief executive officer of the Economic-
policy Division of the Department of
Post-War Reconstruction. His mentors
there were presumably Dr. Lloyd Ross
and Dr. Coombs,
Before the volume appeared Mr. Crisp
had been appointed to the Chair of Poli-
tical Science at Canberra’s University Col-
lege. Hardly had it been published when
the Press was reporting the new professor
as having run into second place among a
“Labor” panel of five standing for elec-
tion to the Canberra Hospital board ; a
professor of political science presumably
trying out the theories he dispenses.
Mr. Crisp’s political predilections are
early apparent in his book from his class-
ing the Parliamentary parties as “Labor”
and “anti-Labor.” Besides this reluct-
ance to refer to the Liberal and Country
parties under their own names, his com-
plete silence on the story and the cir-
cumstances of the Chifley Government’s
turn in 1947 towards socialisation in a
hurry is eloquent of political feeling.
His belittling of the Liberal and Country
parties as “anti-Labor” appears a little
comic when his discourse on the “Labor”
party carries him to the point of admitting
that “Labor” is the really “anti”-party
of them all —anti-Federalist, anti-capital-
ist, anti-Liberal (rather like Mr. Crisp
himself). In his own words:
As long as Labor is striving to change a
fundamentally capitalist society into a
Socialist Commonwealth, it remains, in or
out of office, in a very real sense an
opposition party.
Further, “Labor” is “primarily a class
party,” and “is very much handicapped
by the traditional Australian Labor sus-
picion of the intellectual and the expert.”
Mr. Crisp believes with all the fervor of
Dr. Evatt himself that without this eru-
dite guidance “Labor” may prove un-
equal to its chosen task. “Whether
capitalism is being demolished or Social-
ism built, something more is required than
marching seven times around the walls or
foundations and shouting.” Obviously, in
Mr. Crisp’s opinion, a Stafford Cripps
and a G. D. H. Cole are wanted for Col-
lectivist Australia, also a “Haldane
Society” (of Socialist lawyers) and a
Fabian Society.
But, as Mr. Crisp regretfully observes,
Australian “Labor” does not like such
intellectual equipment when offered.
There is, for instance —though Mr. Crisp
does not mention it —a Fabian Society of
N.S.W. which, in an election-year
pamphlet meant to help the cause, has
addressed these chiding words to the
trade-unions engaged in trying to put the
roof on the Socialist “full-employment”
house before setting its foundations:
They will have to approach their task
in the knowledge that failure [to appre-
ciate the importance of the mobility of
labor and the changed conditions of a full-
employment economy] would mean a choice
between substantially forgoing economic
and social progress on one hand and
accepting some form of compulsory direc-
tion of labor on the other —
—in plain words, that industrial con-
scription which Mr. Chifley in a form of
words has already admitted to be neces-
sary to his “full-employment” programme.
This new spokesman for “intellectual”
Socialism (who must have heard with
contempt Mr, Chifley’s recent gallery-
playing derogation of “this nationalisa-
tion, or socialisation or whatever you call
it”) is all for pressing forward with the
Socialist New Order—“warts and all,” as
Oliver Cromwell said to Lely painting
his portrait. Parliament —Parliamentary
committees, anyway—must not encroach
on executive authority. “As Australia be-
comes more collectivist and her collecti-
vist activities run more and more to long-
term plans, the damage which could be
done by (Parliamentary) committees lack-
ing a sense of responsibility and of self-
restraint can be readily foreseen. If the
Labor party should seriously embark
upon attaining its objectives it must
squarely face the problem of Parlia-
mentary members and committees in the
process.” He admits, however, that the
electors yet have to endorse the “Labor”
objectives. As for the prime objective—
the socialisation of industry, production,
distribution and exchange—this is de-
clared to be the culmination of the efforts
of the militants in the party, but “the
means were to be constitutional.”
That is one of the half-truths which
these Socialist advocates unfailingly use.
The framers of the socialisation objective
decided that Parliamentary machinery
was to be used to nationalise industries
in the first instance, but thereafter, in the
words of Mr. J. H. Scullin, industrial
groups would elect a Supreme Economic
Council which would take the place of
Parliament for all questions of industry.
Similarly the Socialist apologist ex,-
plains that the Pope’s encyclical against
socialisation should not be applied to the
Australian socialisation programme, but
only to European and “predominantly
Marxian Socialism.” But this compromise
has been quite vitiated by the clash be-
tween an R.C. Church’s Australian spokes-
man, Dr. Rumble, and Mr. Calwell, in
which the Minister for Information re-
tired hurt from an effort to establish that
the party’s official interpretation of the
Red Objective made it quite harmless.
Mr. Crisp concludes that “there are
occupational diseases liable to afflict the
minds of reformists”:
With the distribution of constitutional
powers as at present there is an increasing
Labor vogue for accentuating immediate
limited steps of “nationalisation” and
“socialisation” as distinct from “Social-
ism,” which should allow of continuing
solidarity among the forces combined
within the Labor party. There appears,
therefore, to be ample reason from his
own point of view why the social democrat
within the Labor party, under the self-
imposed necessity of marshalling free
electoral majorities, should work to main-
tain the unity of the working classes in
the party as it now exists.
The real idea has been “to make the
Commonwealth safe for industrial trade-
unions and for an experimental approach
to Socialism.” Canberra’s new professor
of political science would almost seem
to be trying to shape Mr, Chifley’s elec-
tion speech for him. “At least one poten-
tially totalitarian influence in and around
the Labor movement” has been kept ,at
bay, we are told, by the practical good
sense of “those able and shrewd Parlia-
mentarians who have shared the leader-
ship of the party.” After recognition also
of “some rigidities and intolerance” re-
sulting therefrom comes this:
The Labor party is driving all the time
for a more and more positive State. This
is already requiring of Australian Parlia-
mentary government some considerable
self-adjustments which are, however, quite
within the institution’s capacity... .None
of these influences working from within
the Labor party or its environment upon
Parliamentary government should be
neglected or underestimated.
Then there is the party pledge, as the
corollary to the socialisation objective.
Canberra’s new professor prescribes at
great length for every Socialist challenged
to defend it, jumping his main hurdle in
a single phrase:
As a freely-pledged man, a Labor Mem-
ber should not find it contrary to his prin-
ciples to vote for measures in accord with
the platform. [Long disquisition on party
loyalty follows] In the extreme case, if
he firmly believes Labor policy is wrong,
he (the Member) can abstain, or vote with
the anti-Labor parties, and leave it to his
party to decide whether it is prepared to
entertain his continued membership..,.
The greatest sin which a Labor Member
of Parliament can commit is “to rat.” It
is the equivalent in the political wing to
“scabbing” in the industrial wing. These
two failings stand at the extremity of
the catalogue of sins.
And then, after a listing of “rat” cases
from the past, comes the comment that
“ ‘ratting’ by Labor men is a con-
tingency never entirely to be discounted
in surveying the Parliamentary scene.”
The best hope seen for “Labor’s” twin
programme of socialisation and unifica-
tion, the latter “in high degree a pre-
requisite,” lies in repeated attempts by
referenda to obtain full powers for the
central Government. “The strategy of
amendment” might dictate a single con-
structive proposal to give the Common-
wealth Parliament legislative supremacy
over the States, these becoming “smaller
regional units,” but it would require
careful review of “the immediate mood
and circumstances of the electorate ”
Entirely ignored perhaps because
taken for granted—is the Socialists’
obvious desire to use increased Common-
wealth powers solely for the attainment
of the revolutionary goal of a party de-
voted primarily to “the class war.”
Canberra’s new professor of political
science seems not yet even to have heard
of the “class war.”
The New Order.
When we were very young A. A. Milne
wrote us a delightful fantasy about a king
who wanted some butter for his breakfast
bread. It seemed that he was somewhat
afraid he wouldn’t get it and was quite
grumpy, so the queen took matters in
hand: —
The King asked
The Queen, and
The Queen asked
The Dairymaid:
“Could we have some butter for
The Royal slice of bread?”....
The Dairymaid
Said, “Certainly,
I’ll go and tell
The cow
Now
Before she goes to bed.”
It was an Alderney cow, and it was
sleepy, and it suggested marmalade in-
stead, so the maid went back to the queen
and the queen to the king. The king was
so annoyed that he went back to bed
complaining that he wasn’t fussy and all
he wanted was some butter. So the queen
soothed him, and the maid soothed the
queen and the cow soothed the maid and
the king eventually got his butter.
As fantasy it was delightful, and it
still pleases us. But this sort of thing
is no longer merely fantasy.
At the biggest hotel in the biggest town
in northern N. S. Wales there arrived at
6.30 p.m, a man, his wife and three
children. They had come a long way by
car, and they were hungry. The man
asked the manager about dinner. “It’s
a bit late,” the manager said. He went
and saw the manageress. “It’s a bit late,”
she said. It was now 6.33 p.m. She went
to the dining- room and saw the head girl;
the head girl saw the cook ; the cook said
there was a cafe up the street.
Not being a king, and not being able to
get back into bed at that moment, the
man put his hungry family in the car and
drove them to the cafe, where they ate
sausages and tomatoes.
“And good enough for them,” said a
solid advocate of the workers to whom
this was told. “Who do they think they
are, anyway, drivin’ round in flash cars
an’ turnin’ up late?”


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Someone Gets Hurt."
The Chifley Government’s crash over its
bid to conscript the doctors under its
“free”-medicine scheme will have been
heard far beyond Australia. The phrase,
“not so as to authorise form of civil
conscription,” adorning the Constitution
as the price of Dr. Evatt’s solitary victory
in the referendum field, is now hoisted
as a companion storm-warning to the
famous Section 92. Throughout this
country the mass of the people will share
the sentiments of the coroner’s jury which
sat on the body of Ingoldsby’s Mrs.
Winifred Pryce and returned the verdict
—“We find, ‘Sarve her right.’ ”
This stupid business; of forcing the
B.M.A. was never necessary. The doctors
have been ready to co-operate in the
national health service ever since the
report in 1944 of the Medical Planning
Committee, which originated in the all-
party Parliamentary committee appointed
by the Menzies Government in 1941, and
consisted of one member from each party
in Parliament, three medical statistical
experts, the Commonwealth Assistant
Director of Health, and four leading
members of the B.M.A. Their wide-
ranging and non-partisan recommenda-
tions were ignored by the present Gov-
ernment, though Mr. Chifley’s Health
Minister believed the doctors had a case
in opposing his Government’s compul-
sory scheme but was overruled in Cabinet.
Senator McKenna is now entitled to tell
his leader exactly what he thinks about
this invalid, strong-arm stuff.
Six months ago Mr, Chifley took the
bit in his teeth over “free” medicine,
telling caucus that the Government would
“fight” the medical profession and that
“in a fight someone always gets hurt.”
In that forecast he was; right, but to him-
self surprisingly so.
His companion in this distress should
be feeling like a pricked balloon. There
seems to have been in Dr. Evatt’s advice
to the Government as its constitutional
adviser some of that same “larrikin
strain” already detected in Our Foreign
Policy. Maybe another “great sacrifice”
will be necessary. Whatever his excuses,
Dr. Evatt’s reputation as a constitutional
adviser is obviously deflated. He and
Mr. Chifley between them have during the
past three years lost for “Labor” —
Three State elections, including two
“Labor” Governments destroyed.
Two referendums (the Evatt specialty).
Five High Court cases, all concerned
■with attempts to violate the Constitution or
to get round adverse referendum votes.
One Privy Council case.
Every State by-election that could not be
won by even a one-eyed Kaffir'standing as
an endorsed “Labor” candidate.
Mr. Chifley’s seat on the Abercrombie
shire council in the close political home-
circle where they know him best.
For all their appeasement of the unions,
and especially of the Communist-bossed
unions, the Chifley-Evatt combination
could not avert a disastrous coal strike,
and when in sheer self-defence they had
to combat that strike they threw over-
board every party principle against
“strikebreaking.” The cost of the waste
in money and time and energy during this
misspent Parliament has been colossal,
both directly and indirectly in the ham-
stringing of progress in essential indus-
tries.
Moreover, these Socialists don’t really
know what they are doing. In Britain
their opposite numbers, whose experi-
ments in “nationalising” health have been
Chifley’s inspiration, have just confessed
as much through the mouth of Aneurin
Bevan, the chief fire-eater of the Attlee
Government. Bevan has just told a Press
conference in London that “he had under-
estimated the cost of Britain’s ‘free’
health service by 100 per cent.,” and that
“instead of £l3O to £l5O million for the
first year (ended last July), it was more
likely to cost £3OO million.” In other
words, three and a half months after-
wards he still does not know the extent
of the scheme’s bankruptcy on the first
year’s operations!
The Poor Begin to Pay.
Unfortunately for its sponsors,
Socialism keeps on handing out terrific
shocks to its alleged beneficiaries, not the
least of them being repeated revelations
of the cost. The British are discovering,
as are Australians, that the idea of
plucking the rich to help the poor is all
right until there are no more rich to
pluck, whereupon the poor have to find
the cash.
It has come out that the Attlees lost,
or are losing, £388.5 million on bulk-
buying of food for one year. That’s
more than a million a day, and, though a
lot of it represents subsidies to keep food
prices down, the British suspect that too
much is caused by the inevitable extrava-
gance and bungling of Government
control.
A few samples of what bureaucracy is
capable of have appeared, and it is small
comfort to the taxpayer to realise that,
whereas in private business those respon-
sible for idiotic blunders and loss are
quickly rendered powerless, in Govern-
ment departments no such rule applies:
The British Food Ministry bought more
grain and meat than it could handle or
store, so it is actually hiring ships as store-
houses. The Potato and Carrot Division,
which employs over 1500 and costs
£500,000 a year, lost £lO million by buying
too many potatoes, those which didn’t rot
being sold at a loss. The Auditor-General •
says that one of the reasons why £2 million
was lost on meat-buying was that heifers
were bought as cows or vice-versa. Thou-
sands of tons of stored maize, bought at
top price, is weevil-infested, and more
grain is on the way from abroad. Another
“miscalculation” resulted in 50,000 tins of
orange juice being kept so long that the
lot went bad.
Meantime Food Minister Strachey and
his otfsiders are blithely committing
British taxpayers to wild overseas food-
prodiiction experiments such as the Peak
Downs sorghum-pig stunt in Queensland,
nut-production in Kenya and a vast
poultry-farm in Gambia (Africa), where
some poultrymen believe no poultry can
thrive. Nobody knows what these schemes
have cost so far, whether production-value
balances cost, or whether costs will ever
be overtaken.
Like “free medicine,” nationalised
transport and coalmines and the rest of
such Socialist enterprises, all these things
have to be paid for. Costs, of course,
mean nothing to Socialists, Anything
that springs from a Socialist must
necessarily be good, and the Socialists
don’t care a hoot who pays for it. But
the workers do, once the onus of pay-
ment falls upon them, and it is at this
point that Socialism, to the worker, be-
comes the soulless tyranny it is, instead
of the Golden Age he was kidded about.
Petrol in Politics.
Though the Prime Minister says petrol-
rationing will begin on November 15
there is no certainty about it. Three
States have still to legislate, and a garage-
men’s association has said its legality will
be tested.
Meantime the thing reeks of politics.
Plainly concerned about the farmer
vote, Mr. Chifley hopes that floods
of petrol will be provided for all land-
men, and no wheatgrower will be short of
the stuff for the coming harvest. Threats
of heavy cuts in the old ration have dis-
appeared, which suggests that they were
made with the deliberate intention of
creating relief and perhaps gratitude
when they were lifted.
Hoarders and blackmarketeers have five
more weeks to add to whatever stocks
and plans they have, and though his col-
leagues have frequently accused them of
various sins, Mr. Chifley is relying on
the good sense, honesty and fair-dealing
of oil companies and retailers to see that
everybody gets a fair go. Talk of com-
pelling motorists to “declare” private
stocks of over 20 gallons and of in-
spectors tracking down hoarders is so
much dazzle-dust.
The section most hurt by reimposition
of rationing is the private motorist, who,
for the first time in eight years, was get-
ting free use of his car. But the majority
of owners of private cars (or any other
property) don’t vote “Labor,” so their
feelings don’t count.
The Government’s handling of petrol
has been questionable and suspect ever
since the High Court invalidated ration-
ing. It began seeking ways of getting
round the invalidation straight away,
made no effort to find means of over-
coming the alleged shortage, and has
never made an open and clear statement
of the position. What the people will
have to insist upon, if rationing does come
in, is that it be regarded as a temporary
measure and that the Government (what-
ever its color after December 10) make
every effort to dispense with it.
What Won't 0 Chifley Do?
Mr. Chifley’s election policy, announced
after conference with A.L.P. Federal Ex-
ecutive in Canberra, is that his party
“will not do anything that would be out-
side the Constitution.” That sounds very
good of him —and carries even an over-
tone of confession and repentance for
anti-Constitution violence throughout this
term of office —until the electors appre-
ciate that members of his Ministry have
vowed they will get round the Constitu-
tion any way they can, including:
Packing the High Court with “tempera-
mentally fitted” judges.
Abolishing appeals to the Privy Council,
now that the P.C. does not agree with
them on the Bank-Grab
Underhand methods, squeezing of busi-
ness enterprise (on the lines of . Socialist
treatment of the trading banks), and thpse
unnamed ingenious processes of defeating
the Constitution foreshadowed on behalf
of Cabinet by Messrs, Armstrong and
Ward.
By hook or by crook Mr. Chifley and
the whole prevaricating gang he leads will,
the electors are assured, extinguish the
trading banks with any lethal weapon that
they can manage to discover. So long as
the trading banks last they will hence-
forth get “virile competition” from the
central bank (Commonwealth), using for
the purpose the trading-banks’ deposits
{Continued on page 8 .)
NOTHING LIKE A BIT OF HIDE.
“Let me keep it for another three years and I promise I won’t shoot anything—unless I can get hold of more ammunition.


6434 E-R
CARRERAS LIMITED-
There is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENS
- OYER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
& v-M
extorted from them under the 1945 Act
in the name of inflation-prevention.
There are on record Ministerial
opinions which show the spread of that
malice against the banks which Mr.
Chifley exhibits every time he refers
to them:
Armstrong (Minister for Supply and
Development): The Bank Nationalisation
Act will be brought into effect by other
means if held unconstitutional There
are men of reasonable ingenuity who will
see to that.
Ward (Minister for Transport);
Nationalisation of banking is fundamental
to the Labor party, and without it
Labor cannot exercise political power.
Irrespective of what may be the decision
of the Privy Council, once„ Labor has
spoken and said the banks' are to be
nationalised, the issue is beyond doubt.
It is only a question of when we shall be
able to do it.
Evatt (Attorney-General): The Common-
wealth Parliament has no power to
nationalise industries. [His “constitutional”
advice to the P.M. has so far been proved
wrong by the courts.]
Dedman (Post-War Reconstruction): The
Government is pursuing its banking policy
(that is, in the appeal to the Privy Council)
and intends to pursue it (whether it wins
or loses that appeal), because on its fulfil-
ment depends the policy of “full employ-
ment.”
'Chifley (Treasurer and one-man dictator
of Commonwealth Bank policy): I have
never seen any reason to go away from
the socialisation plank. The High Court
and the Privy Council have shown that this
[socialisation of banks] could not be done.
While our belief is not lessened, we defi-
nitely would not do anything outside the
Constitution.
But what these Socialists mean to do,
false-speaking like any Communist for
the sake of the cause, is to knock that
Constitution endways if only they can get
a further term of power; and the first
thing that will happen if the electors
are foolish enough to vote for them again
will be another series of referendums on
price-control. With that and the use of
“virile competition” based on collared
trading-banks’ deposits, they will get all
industry—big and small —under their
thumbs. Then, the High Court having
been packed, the Constitution will cease
to be any obstruction to the Socialist
aim of a totalitarian collectivist Com-
monwealth.
Points
Federal “Labor” must be beginning to
regret the day it agreed to take Doc.
Evatt at his own valuation as a legal
expert; it seems the champ, can’t take
a trick. His Ministerial path is strewn
with lost cases and rejected appeals.
Among other things, he has guessed
wrong on socialised airlines, banking
(twice), petrol-rationing and free medi-
cine. His errors of judgment must have
been a big disappointment to the Social-
ists, and they have certainly cost the tax-
payers a packet. It is hardly likely that
Evatt considers the chief function of the
Attorney-General is to enrich the pockets
of the legal profession, but under his
regime the lawyers have been having a
glimpse of the Golden Age, even if no-
one else has. Since 1944 his department
has paid out to five K.Cs. who have
pleaded the Government’s causes £56,023.
At the week-end Eddie Ward came out
with a plan for holding a referendum on
constitutionally-doubtful legislation such
as the Pharmaceutical Benefits Act. He
felt that this would “convince the High
Court the people know what they really
want better than it does.” Ward ignored
the fact that the High Court was called
upon to decide not whether the people
wanted “free medicine” but whether the
Government’s method of granting it to
them was constitutional. The referendum
proposals as a result of which the Act
was framed specifically excluded “any
form of civil conscription” ; the Court
ruled that the Government’s scheme was
a form of civil conscription and was
therefore unconstitutional. Eddie hasn’t
always been in favor of putting doubt-
ful legislation to the people. When the
High Court threw out the Bank-Grab
Act plenty of people suggested a refer-
endum, but “Labor” members were not
among them; certainly not Eddie. His
remedy then was to pack the High Court
and try again.
During the Budget debate the Prime
Minister made a comparison between
Liberal propagandists and Judas, saying
that the only difference was that Judas
was not so well paid. He then said —
Labor “Standard” the authority—“ Poor
old Judas got only 40 pieces of silver.”
According to Biblical authority the fee
was 30 pieces of silver; but, of course,
that was written before devaluation.
In the same speech Chifley told the
Opposition “You are like the comic-
strips from America, a bit behind the
times.” A day or so later he was explain-
ing that the comic-strip which “Labor”
is using as election propaganda is based
on a similar thing put out by President
Truman’s party last year.
According to Chifley, the nationalisa-
tion of a service depends on whether it
is a necessary service and whether it is
operating for the good of the public.
Conversely, then, an unnecessary ser-
vice, not in the public good, should be
denationalised. A start could be made
on State lotteries.
Chifley has assured the private banks
that in future they can expect “very
virile competition” from the Common-
wealth Bank. The banks are doubtless
wondering whether the virility will be of
the kind T.A.A, is enabled to offer the
private airlines. During the two years to
March 11, 1949, it was allowed to draw
1,263,290 dollars to cover purchase of
Convair aircraft; private airlines weren’t
allowed a cent. In March A.N.A. applied
for a Customs permit to import four
planes. No dollars were involved; the
planes were in a “soft-currency” country.
They haven’t got the permit yet; they
haven’t even had a refusal, merely a
dreary succession of letters which, ac-
cording to Captain Holyman, managing-
director of A.N.A., ask questions which
are “quite pointless and appear to be
only a ‘blind’ to prevent us from purchas-
ing the planes.”
Chifley has announced that petrol im-
ports will be cut by 25 per cent, of last
year’s (rationed) consumption. No.w he
says the ration to private users, though
there are more of them on the roads than
ever, will not be less than that of the
previous rationing period. On less petrol
he will issue the same amount to more
users. What is the truth of this petrol-
supply business?
The Broadcasting Control Board’s
order on political broadcasts, described
even by Calwell as stupid, turned out to be
so stupid that when the Government
asked the board to redraft it they dropped
the offending paragraphs altogether. An
intriguing point is that the order was
gazetted and tabled in the House without
any Government member noticing its
stupidity; that was only detected after
Opposition members and the Press had
attacked it. In framing the order the
board merely did what the Broadcasting
Act directed it to do. The circumstance
which made what seemed to the framers
of the Act sane and sensible become
stupid when promulgated as an order was
that in the intervening months Com-
munism had by some strange alchemy
been transformed from a political philo-
sophy into a conspiracy. It’s a safe bet
that if the coal strike had not forced
Chifley and Co. to open their mouths
against Communism they would have seen
nothing wrong or stupid about the order
now rescinded.
By one of those quirks of coincidence
the same day that saw the publication of
the cancellation of the broadcasting order
also saw the announcement of the High
Court’s rejection of Sharkey’s appeal
against his conviction for sedition. Under
the original order Sharkey, as leader of
the Communist party, would have been,
able to claim free radio-time on every
broadcasting station in Australia.
Urging the wiping-out of the Depart-
ment of Building Materials, Mrs. Fowler,
a Lang member in the N.S.W, Assembly,
said, “Private enterprise would make
the Government look silly if it was
allowed to go ahead and build.” Which
is probably why it isn’t.
A striking example of the effects of go-
slow on the waterfront was given by the
chairman of Adelaide Steam at his com-
pany’s annual meeting. Mentioning that
his firm’s vessels had been lifting the
Queensland sugar crop for over half a
century, he said that down to the war
years the crop was moved in six months ;
now it takes almost the whole year,
although a greater tonnage of ships is
employed. The effect on costs, freights
and supplies is obvious.
Before the Attlee Government nation-
alised the coalmines one of its argu-
ments was that multiplicity of ownership
meant inefficiency and overlapping in
administration. Here’s what a Swansea
man reports: “Before nationalisation a
buyer for a group of collieries had a staff
of four men and two typists. Now he
has a palatial office and a staff three times
the size.”
Evatt to Duthie (Lab., Tas.): “In the
United Kingdom there are no constitu-
tional obstacles in the way of Parliament,
which decides what will be done for the
peace, order and good government of
Great Britain.” Sometimes, Doctor,
sometimes.
Wool hit 9s. Oid. a pound at Geelong
last week, top price this season, Ameri-
can buyers are blamed for it, with “strong
support from Rusisa and Japan.” It
could be a first result of devaluation; if
so, it is also a first sign of inflation.
Some people seem to have little idea
of how costs have risen. A Sydney man,
to whom racing luck brought £3023, told
reporters he would pay off his house, buy
a car and have a “good round sum” left
to bank. His wife said she wanted to re-
furnish the house. That “good round
sum” won’t be so round if they do all
that.
It was announced a week or so ago
that the British would have their meat
and pork rations increased slightly be-
cause cold stores at the moment are full.
The meat ration was to go from Is. 4d.-
to Is. 6d.-worth a week. Last Thursday
the rejoicing British, smacking their lips
in anticipation of that extra twopennorth
of meat a week, were informed that be-
cause of a “go-slow” strike of porters at
Smithfield meat market, the ration was to
come down from Is. 4d.- to Is. Id.-worth.
Another “victory” for Government
control.
“Castle Hiller” lets his head go:
*Twas announced in Sydney and Melbourne
papers that, in connection with petrol-rationing,
“Steps may be taken to require all licence-
holders to declare the amount of stocks held
by them at the date of resumed rationing
If this is done, all stocks over 20 gallons may
be taken into consideration in issuing the first
two-and-a-half months’ ration. However,
motorists will probably be allowed a reserve of
20 gallons and a full tank before any stocks
they have on hand are taken into consideration
in assessing their ration.”
So every motorist may have 20 gallons and
a full tank and then a ration equal to the old
one. Multiply 28 gals, (say) by number of
motorists in Australia and deduct Chifley’s
reduction of pre-June imports by 25 per cent.,
and is there plenty of petrol in the land or
isn’t there? They’re a lot of liars!
At question-time on Friday Chifley
said that some trading banks had chal-
lenged some sections of the 1945 Banking
Act, but had withdrawn their writs under
pressure from other banks. His state-
ment was described by a trading banks’
spokesman as “utterly false,” and it was
suggested that the P.M. was thinking of
a portion of the Melbourne City Council’s
claim which was withdrawn before the
case came before the High Court.
A Sydney suburban grocer decided to
cut prices on a number of lines, includ-
ing tea, which he offered at 2s. Bd., a
penny below the fixed price. When the
Commonwealth Tea and Coffee Control
Board heard of it they sent him a letter
requiring by return post an undertaking
in writing not to sell below 2s. 9d. Not
wishing to break the law the grocer com-
plied. The question then arose: Whose
law was he breaking? The board claimed
that the fixed price was a minimum as
well as a maximum; N, S. Wales Prices
Minister Finnan maintained it was a maxi-
mum only and that tea prices were under
State control. Thus fortified, the grocer
returned to the fight with an announce-
ment that he would sell at 2s. 6d., at
which price he claimed a profit of Is. 9d.
a dozen pounds could be made. Whether
the margin is sufficient is surely his own
business ; it’s a crazy sort of world where
bureaucrats can force a man to take a
bigger profit than he wants.
McGirr won two by-elections on Satur-
day, but the victories won’t do much to
wipe out the bitter memories of Coogee,
Kogarah and Concord. The Redfern and
Cessnock polls were virtual walkovers for
“Labor”; the Libs didn’t run candidates
and the Communists weren’t in the race,
though their candidate for the coalfield
seat did manage to save his deposit, which
is a rare performance for a Comrade.
Failure of the Liberals to nominate a
candidate was reflected in a light poll and
a high percentage of informal votes.
There is a suggestion that one school
of “Labor” thought is urging the Gov-
ernment to use doctors trained under
Rehab, to combat B.M.A. opposition to
its “free”-medicine scheme; they hope
the students will feel a “moral obliga-
tion” to help the Government. If the
young men feel that way they’ll be very
foolish; they were told the assistance
was given to them by a grateful country
in return for services rendered.
As mad with the export fever as his
chief, Pollard said at the weekend that
a couple of Government chaps would
“survey” South America to see what Aus-
tralian products could be sold there, and
that he was “impressed with the oppor-
tunity of increasing trade with Latin
America, particularly in manufactured
products.” This persistent dream of ex-
porting more Australian factory goods
comes strangely from a crowd who do
nothing about increasing factory produc-
tion of goods desperately needed in the
home market.
The man’s a clod who doesn’t fueuille
Reactions to the fall of Queuille.
For though for Queuille we drop a
tueuille,
Old Uncle Joe is sure to chueuille.


INCE 184-7
J-Jj ■*
7
tm
y.\
WINES
GOOD FOR MORE
THAN A CENTURY
PERSONALITEMS
Auditor - General Edmund Harold
Swift, results of whose investigations into
aspects of N.S.W. Government finance
were aired last week, has a name through-
out Australian accountancy circles for
being one of the most capable in that
exact profession. Astute-minded and
naturally cautious, he doesn’t throw in-
formation around until he is sure; then
he is outspoken and incisive. One of the
things he jumped on in his latest report
was laxness in presenting State accounts ;
he knows all the wrinkles there —from
1938 to 1942 he was Under-Secretary to
the Treasurer and Comptroller of
Accounts. A Fellow of the Common-
wealth Institute of Accountancy, he has
been in his present job since 1942.
Vigorous believer in the overseas
future of Australian wine, Kenneth
Hardy, as chairman of the Australian
Wine Board, has lately been hammering
in London for reduced duty, and is
mighty hopeful of getting it. Hardy,
whose family have been grape-growing
since Granddad began hoeing a 25-acre
vineyard beside the Torrens 96 years ago,
has shrewdly based his duty appeal on
those organs directly concerned—the
stomachs of Englishmen. At a dinner in
London’s Savoy 400' guests were regaled
with the whole range of Australian wines
from sherry to brandy. Lord Bruce
mellowed the treatment with one of his
polished, and nowadays rare, after-
dinner speeches. Hardy packs up for
home this month, leaving behind him his
slogan, “Drink Imperially.”
Shifting camp to London as Australian
Army representative, Colonel H, C. F.
Harlock was over that way early in the
war with the Seventh Division, command-
ing the 2 j Ist Field Regiment. He crossed
with his crowd to Greece, and in the with-
drawal was captured by the Germans.
Both he and Brigadier Woodward, whom
he relieves, and who was at Alamein, are
Staff Corps men.
Until last week there was no State
Parliament without a McDonald or a
Macdonald on the strength—retirement
of Robert Ross McDonald puts Westralia
out of the running. Now 60, Ross (he
has never been Bob) was 30 years ago a
rising hope of the Western Libs led by
Frank Wilson (long dead), and in the
revolution of events he rose to be their
leader, holding that position for eight
years till 1946. When he left for World
War I he was already admitted to the
Bar fat 22) ; he returned a captain, re-
entered his old calling, and took silk in
1936. Three years previously he had
become M.L.A. for West Perth, a seat
which, though no longer the safe one it
was for many years, he still held on re-
tirement. Since the present Government
took office in 1947 he had been Attorney-
General, Minister for Police and, lastly,
Minister for Housing, Well-groomed,
courteous and liked on both sides of the
House, he’s done more than talk about
Westralia’s houses.
Two-war soldier, public servant, poli-
tician and senior diplomat, Major-General
L. R. La Fleche, P.C., D. 5.0., Canada’s
new High Commissioner in Australia, is
expected to dock in Sydney this week.
He was his country’s Ambassador in
Greece.
A world-wide competition for a mural
painting representing the Mexican Eagle
pausing in flight to offer the Key of
Wisdom and Knowledge to the Mexican
peon, which will go to decorate the
Hotel de la Borda, Taxco, has been won
by Frank Armitage, of Geelong, an ex-
Commonwealth Training Scheme student.
He served in the war-time R.A.A.F.,
studied at Melbourne Tech., and con-
tinued his course at the Ontario College
of Art. The prize is 1000 pesos, plus a
silver cup, and the winner goes to Mexico
to study composition and use of new
painting materials.
The Victorian Government sticks to its
internal organisation in selecting Robert
George Wishart from a world field of
starters for the chairmanship of its rail-
ways. Wishart steps into the shoes of
his lifelong colleague Norman Harris,
who, with a first-class record both in war
and peace—he served with the Engineers
in World War I and won the M.C. —is
R. E. WISHART,
Victorian Railway Chairman.
retiring in January. The new man joined
the Victorian Railways as a clerk in 1906,
and made a meteoric rise under the eye
of Harold Clapp, who spotted his quality
early. Wishart was secretary to three
former commissioners, and from 1929 to
1938 served as special officer to the com-
mission. In 1934 Clapp took him on a
world tour; he was appointed commis-
sioner in 1940. Now 59, he was born
at Linton, near Ballarat,
“Jindivick”: Rev. Frank Hartley,
whose Sanananda Interlude was Red
Paged recently, is also able to express
himself capably in watercolors; his col-
lection covers most of the places he
visited in World War 11. For his work
in New Guinea he was “mentioned.”
Hartley’s wide circle of friends include
members of all churches, though, of
course, he upholds the fundamentals of
his own Methodism. As a good scholar
in Hebrew he, on occasions, called on
the help of his Hebrew version of the
Scriptures to bring light to bear on points
which tended to confuse his Digger-flock,
The success of the visit of an American
professor of philosophy who stirred edn-
troversy with his lectures at Melbourne
University has moved that institution to
think of others. Its latest guest. Professor
Francis Albert Crew, is visiting Australia
as official historian of medical war ser-
vices for the British Government and
wants information on the World War II
deeds of the sister service here. A world
authority on genetics, with some reputedly
unconventional views on whether modern
marriage harmonises with Nature from
the viewpoint of biological reproduction,
he is Professor of Public Health and
Social Medicine at Edinburgh University.
111-health gave Lieut.-General Festing
only a few months in his command
of British Forces in Hong Kong —he
turns over to Lieut.-General Sir Robert
Mansergh, another familiar of the East.
Lieut.-colonel in the early part of World
War 11, Mansergh served from Abyssinia
and the Western Desert east through
Persia, Irak, Assam and Burma until,
major-general commanding the sth Indian
Division, he was in at the liberation of
Singapore. He remained in those parts to
command the Allied Forces in the N.E.I.
in 1946, and the next year, after eight
years’ foreign service, went home to a
knighthood and the military secretaryship
to the U.K. War Secretary* Schooled in
South Africa, he has just notched 50.
Grounded arms, Maoriland’s World
War II commander in the Pacific,
Brigadier L. Potter, D. 5.0., a Duntroon
product who served in India from 1925-
27, commanded the 14th Infantry Brigade
at Fiji in 1942 and later Was with the
Third M.L. Division at New Caledonia.
He led the force Which went ashore on
Vella Lavella in 1943 and at Nissan the
following year, and, until its withdrawal,
commanded “J” Force in Japan.
The Farrer Memorial Medal for dis-
tinguished service to agriculture went thcte
year to Professor Walter Waterhouse, fo«
the second time. The medallist gives the
Farrer Oration at Hawkesbury Agricul-
tural College (N.S.W.), and Prof. Water-
house chose some aspects of rust in wheat,
Which means a great deal to the wheat
industry, llourmillers and bakers. Water-
house thus follows in Farrer’s tracks; it
was rust research that led Farrer to his
drought-resistant wheats and pusned
wheatgrowing into previously untried
parts of Australia. The orator was a
student at Hawkesbury before getting his
D.Sc.Ag. at Sydney University; He has
since added D.I.C. and F.L.S. He also
added M.C. in the 1914-18 war —he went
with a gold medal for rifle-shooting with
the Hawkesbury College team —and, as
well, collected a “mention” and a wound
that sent him home. Studies in London
and America rounded off his agricultural
knowledge, and he has bagged a string of
honors and appointments, including presi-
dency of the Royal Society and the
Linnean Society. Now Research Pro-
fessor of Agriculture at Sydney Univer-
sity, Professor Waterhouse has spent 30
years examining the rust fungus and
ing wheats to beat it, and he doesn’t feel
like giving up. yet.
Pete B. Jarman, new U.S. Ambassador
to Australia, seen here captured and hung
up by Heth, trained for the job as a
Foreign Affairs man for America, did a
spell as Secretary of State for Alabama,
and is fresh from a 12-year stretch in the
U.S. Congress—“ Democrat, get that!”
After a trip around Australia to the U.S.
Embassies in the different States he will
be located at Canberra, feeling the pulse
of foreign Embassies and, where America,
is concerned, ironing things out when they
get wrinkled. He still seems agreeably
surprised at the last election results back
home, and will be with us “ ‘ for the
time being and at the will of the Presi-
dent...,’ or something like that.” He
comes from the deep South, and mention
of mint-juleps brings a glisten to his eyes;
PETE B. JAkMAN, U.S. Ambassador.
his pleasant drawl falls a shade deeper,
and he will talk of Alabama and tell you
it’s all in the crushing of the mint. In
World War I he was an infantry
lieutenant in the American stoush at i>t.
Mihiel and the Argonne Forest. It was
in France, when he inspected the
Passchendaele country a considerable
time after the job, that he formed his high
opinion of the Digger. Jarman will be
57 “come Hallowe’en Day,”
Gut of harness in Melbourne, Hector
Hercules Bell, who turned in the chair-
manship of Melbourne and Metropolitan
Tramways Board last week, will be well-
remembered by the trammies, always wel-
come to take their grievances through his
open door. It was he who gave the death-
knock to one of Melbourne’s affections,
cable-trams, for which he foresaw the
impossibility of getting cables. Then he
refereed in the tram v. bus shindy, an
'arduous and thankless job still undecided ;
he confesses, though, to a bias in favor
of trams. Bom in Richmond (Vic.), hd
was road-contractor, ; bridge-maker, and
reservoir-builder before joining the tram-
ways 34 years ago, being chairman for
the last 14. Now 72, his recreation is a
weekend cottage where nature is tramless,
A. E. Heath, the new Federal president
of the Associated Chambers of Commerce
of .Australia, will have the assistance, in
the Canberra secretariat, of Allan C.
Slater. Now 33, Slater has already had
a wide experience of Empire trade and
commerce, beginning with the Union-
Castle Steamship Go. (mainly in its
African branches), and, after the war,
with the Association of Chambers of
Commerce of South Africa, During the
war Slater was in the Royal Navy for
six years, attaining the rank of com-
mander ; he acted as Staff Officer and
Staff Gunnery Officer to Lord Reith,
Director of Combined Operations
(Material), whose job had so much to
do with supplying bridgeheads for the
invasion of Europe.
Early this season, when 28-year-old
John Cameron gave his farewell recital
at Sydney Conservatorium before going
overseas. The Bulletin pronounced him
the best baritone produced in Sydney for
many years. The directors of London s
Covent Garden Opera confirmed the good
opinion by snapping him up immediately
after his first audition ; now he is to sing
the chief baritone role in “La Traviata”
at England’s operatic h.q. He will also
appear in the first televised opera,
“Pagliacci”—a tribute to his handsome
appearance. After almost six years in
the A.1.F., with service in the Middle East
and New Guinea, Cameron took a rehab,
course in singing at Sydney Con., where
Ruth Gunther quickly recognised his
talents; later Madame Mathy took over
the polishing. His big chance came in
an invitation to sing with Georges Thill;
despite comparative inexperience, he
made a much better showing than the
visiting French tenor. Later he sang in
Delius’s “Sea Drift” and in A.B.C. opera,
and in the National Opera’s presentation
of “La Traviata” in Melbourne his
Alfredo was a definite hit. His success
in the difficult field of the lied is ample
proof of his musical intelligence—and
he’s a tiger for work.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 84, A. B. Shand, K.C., one-
time leader of the Bar, for whom, in his- day,
there was always a dive when big legal issues
were involved. His only son John is a leading
Sydney K.C. ...
At 68, in Melbourne, Frank Hartley, City
Councillor for nine years and director of one
of the city’s biggest sport emporiums, the
Melbourne Sports Depot.
In Christchurch (M.L.), at 71, Charles
Christopher Davis, one-time director of the
Sydney Cockatoo Docks’ and Engineering Co.,
and, at the end, managing-director of Davis
Gelatine (N.Z.), Ltd. He came from England
as a lad, and was schooled at Auckland, where
borough councillor and deputy-mayor for
Onehunga vented his spare-time energies. Two
sons live in Australia.
In his office at Parliament House, Melbourne,
at '5O, Hugh Blair Jamieson, clerk of the Legis-
lative Council. He served in the old 14th
Battalion, returned to eight years in the Crown.
Solicitor’s office, and left to become associate
to Justice McArthur in the Supreme Court.
He had 18 years in the Council, and was an
outstanding authority bn its procedure.
In Dresden (Germany), at 75, Dr. Gerhard
Von Kuessler, distinguished conductor and
composer; he was musical director of St.
Patrick’s Cathedral during Melbourne’s cen-
tenary celebrations.
At 64, in Melbourne, Ronald Bienvenu, who
joined the Adelaide Steamship Co. at 15 and
ended secretary of the Australasian Steamship
Owners 3 Federation. Widely liked among ship-
ping men, as a member of the Maritime In-
dustry Commission he made the word con-
ciliation mean something.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Mac Hoots”: While the Eight-Hour-
Day procession was floating triumphantly
through Sydney, with its bands, banners
and beautiful blondes, and while the news-
papers were carrying the reports of
Premier McGirr’s beautiful sentiments
about working-weeks growing ever shorter
and shorter, I saw at a fruit-stall at
Circular Quay an incident which summed-
up the day rather differently. Seven
ragged small boys, obviously from the
Rocks, where the poor have lived in
tenements since Sydney began, asked the
fruit-man did he have “any penny apples,
mister?” The fruit-man didn’t. Then,
“What can we have for a penny, mister?”
They could have two liquorice-blocks;
and the fruit-man took their seven
pennies, one from each, and gave them
the goods accordingly. Now, I suppose
even in a liquorice-block there is a
modicum of nourishment; but any doctor
would agree with the boys in preferring
apples. Apples were sevenpence each;
with their total wealth the boys could
“I got tired, dear”
have bought just one to share among the
lot of them. And that, while the proces-
sions march and the politicians spout their
beautiful illusions, is the real situation of
the seven ragged lads from the Rocks
under a “Labor” Government.
* * * *
“Jasby”; According to a report of the
World Health Organisation, more than
three-quarters of the world’s population
are still the victims of diseases resulting
from poor sewerage disposal, uncontrolled
insects and inadequate protection of milk
and food. This was mentioned at the
annual conference of Sanitary Inspectors’
Association held recently at Eastbourne
(Eng.). At the same conference one dele-
gate complained that “some of the most
promising sanitary officers were leaving
the service for work in other fields be-
cause of a strong feeling of frustration.”
While the W.H.O. report impresses me
with the importance of the sanitary man’s
job, my occasional experience (enforced)
as Army hygiene-wallah enables me to
appreciate that “strong feeling of frustra-
tion.” Few men stuck the hygiene job for
long, despite the attractions of short hours
and exemption from other duties. In our
unit we had one exception—Old Bob,
who took a pride in his work and carried
out his duties with a thoroughness border-
ing on enthusiasm, especially after the
incineration system was introduced. This
involved a daily burn-out, the conflagra-
tion being encouraged with small pieces
of deal, sump-oil, kerosene and petrol.
Occasionally he would get a little too
lavish with the petrol and the whole show
would go up, hessian screens and all.
Which explains the rather neat comment
of our B.S.M. when he rushed out of his
tent to seek the cause of the shouting and
hallooing coming from the direction of
the latrines. “ ’Strewth,” he said as he
gazed at the leaping flames. “Old Bob’s
gone and bitten the hand that feeds him.”
* * * *
“Plop”: With explosions of bubble-
gum shaking the land, I find that mastery
of the stuff requires considerable study,
and, to that end, most brands have the
steps necessary for the final detonation
printed in detail on their wrappers. The
gist of them is that, after thorough chew-
ing, the gum should be flattened against
the roof of the mouth, then shifted to
a position behind the teeth and have
the tongue applied gently to its centre.
Only then is it correct to go ahead and
blow a bubble. I’ve tried it, but only
succeeded in blowing the bubble when I
ignored the instructions and worked out
a system of my own. Printed directions
were a lot simpler in the old days. I
don’t think you could find in all litera-
ture anything more concise and to the
point than that legend which used to
appear on fireworks; “Light blue touch-
paper and stand <?lear.”
* * * ♦
“Isa Lei”: Some residents of Fiji have
recently developed an acute attack of
the jitters. Avoiding the immigration
officials, ignoring the customs and cold-
shouldering the health authorities, rabbits
have mysteriously appeared on the ver-
dant shores of the main island, Viti Levu.
The catastrophe was first reported by a
motorist before whose stmtled gaze the
bunny dashed across the road and dis-
appeared into bush. The news soon be-
came a gloomy household topic through-
out the island. Opinions are divided.
One school of thought has voiced the
hope that tropical climates act adversely
on rabbits ; but the pessimists won’t have
it. They point out that rabbits have
plagued one of the Phoenix Islands, well
within the steamy latitudes, and in any
case the cooT mountainous heights of
Viti Levu would make an ideal breeding-
ground. Fijian statistical experts, who
have had plenty of experience with the
increasing Indian population, have cast a
further gloom by calculating that a pair
of rabbits, with anywhere up to eight
in a litter and with eight litters a year,
could in two years swamp Fiji with
1,247,840 rabbits. A pet Fijian rabbit
that wanted to see the islands will never
know the upheaval he brought to Fiji.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”; My barbecue memory
(B. 28/9/’49) dates from 1941, when, as a
soldier on N.T. detail, I attended the
shivoo with which the N.Q. town of
Camooweal celebrated the completion of
the road from Mt. Isa to Tennant Creek.
"I wish I hadn't used that lilac brilliantine!"
Piece de resistance was a steer roasted
whole over a pit in the area adjacent to
the pub. At the ’Weal I suffered severe
concussion from that highly lethal weapon
the “Rankine Bomb,” a tipple much
favored by the locals and concocted on a
rum-and-port-wine basis. Next unsmiling
morn I awoke to the thud of a million
trip-hammers and a consciousness that I
had missed the barbecue. At least, that
was the impression, but it was soon dis-
pelled when a tent-mate waved a mirror
before my gaze, bringing before me an
awful spectacle of blistered lips and nose
sustained in devouring chunks of piping-
hot underdone beef.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: I served as a War-time
censor (B. 28/9/’49) when, as acting O.C.
platoon, I went through troops’ home
letters, employing the usual device of
moving a strip of paper in two-inch
stages across the written page, which
method highlighted forbidden references
and at the same time prevented the reader
from grasping the import of the missive.
At one stage, however, the frequency
of far-from-platonic terms of endearment
convinced me that the Army had saddled
me with a platoon of the most aban-
doned Casanovas in the A.I.F, Closer
scrutiny showed a striking similarity in
style, and led to investigation which con-
firmed my guess that the paper-searing
epistles drew their inspiration from a
common fount. This turned out to be
the cook, a bald and toothless First War
Digger, whose epistolary efforts were
certainly warmer than the tucker dished
up to us. Questioned, he revealed that his
knowledge of cuisine had been acquired
during the years in Civvy-street in which
he conducted a Lonely Hearts Corres-
pondence Club. By switching the posi-
tions of cook and orderly-room clerk,
my section of the military machine was
considerably speeded up,
* * * *
“Don”; We’ve heard a lot about red-
tape and the brusqueness of officialdom;
here’s a bit of evidence on the other side.
On a Monday morning I arrived at
my beyond-the-suburbs station in time to
catch my usual 5.18 a.m. train. Some-
one had mislaid the keys of the ticket-
office, so I had to board the train on the
previous week’s ticket. Not relishing the
idea of paying four-bob for the trip in
addition to the subsequent full amount
for a weekly, I told my troubles to the
stationmaster at the city end. There was
no argument, no doubting my word. With
a friendly grin he wrote me out a pass.
“This’ll get you through, son,” he said.
* * * ♦
“Pontius Penwiper”: Butler, the mur-
derer (B. 21 /9/ ’49), was a brutal character,
but he did not always show it. George
Black, in his History of the Labor Party,
mentions that when that party was an
infant holding its meetings in the old
Protestant Hall in Castlereagh-street they
found the caretaker a most obliging chap;
he was Butler, Bernard Ingleby, one-time
Bulletin writer and poet of distinction,
was for a time offsider to Clement
Wragge, and was placed in charge of Mt.
Stromlo Observatory, where he spent
some months snowed-in on his own. Re-
leased by better weather, he took a ramble
in the snow and lost himself. He came to
consciousness in a mountain hut whither;
a rescuer had taken him. The rescuer
nursed him back to life with great gentle-
ness. Ingleby was impressed by his tales
of world wanderings and found him a
good companion. Months later he identi-
fied him by the newspaper photos as
Butler, The murderer’s technique was to
advertise for a partner (no experience)
with a few hundred pounds for a gold-
prospecting venture. When the victim
came across with the money he would be
taken to a lonely place, callously mur-
dered and buried in the hole he had been
induced to dig.
* * * *
“Bo”: One hundred years ago next
Monday Death literally took by the
throat —he died of tuberculosis of the
larynx—one whose pre-eminence as a
composer for the piano has never been
challenged. Although by comparison
with other and more versatile geniuses
like Mozart and Schubert, Frederic
Chopin’s output was small —his published
compositions, all except five of them
short pieces, total but 206 —practically
every one of which is a miniature master-
piece. The epic nature of the four bal-
lades and the four scherzi, the brilliance
and vigor of the famous 24 Studies —the
last piece of music broadcast from War-
saw Radio before the Germans over-
whelmed the city in September, 1939, was
his Revolutionary Study—the dreamy
beauty of the nocturnes, the grace and re-
finement of the waltzes, the perfect
cameos of the preludes, the passionate
abandon and the bold harmonic schemes
of the polonaises and the mazurkas of
his native Poland—these are in the reper-
toires of all great keyboard masters and
remain the delight of countless millions.
With Chopin piano music was really bom.
His music truly reflects the man who
made it —in his person slight and grace-
ful and elegant, a fastidious dresser, the
darling of the Paris salons, in one of
which he met Georges Sand. His affair
with her —on the rebound from his bitter
disappointment over Marie Wodzinska —
is one of the strangest liaisons in history;
the rather effeminate fop and the cigar-
smoking authoress who regarded the com-
poser more as a victim than a lover.
And when she heartlessly abandoned him
after he became victim of the white
plague it was a Scottish pupil of his, Jane
Sterling, who arranged his tour of Eng-
land and Scotland —though the fogs
nearly killed him —and made him a secret
gift of 25,000 francs to brighten his last
days. And what more appropriate than
that at his funeral service Mozart, his
musical god, should have been repre-
sented by his Requiem, followed by the
Funeral March from his own B Flat
Minor Sonata—the greatest threnody in
all music,
A SLUR RESENTED.
“It Is not the objective of the ‘Labor’' party to go
around socialising everything.”— Mr. Chifley.
They’re callin’ us Socialists now, sir,
Like tiein’ a can on a cat;
We finds it offensive, some’ow, sir;
Don’t think us as bad as all that;
W’en Eddie Ward got in a tangle,
Then wot did the judge bring to light?
’E said, “ ’E’s as pure as a hangel—
It’s just that ’e ain’t very bright.”
That’s ’ow we all are, to our ruin,
A little bit sorft in the yed,
We reely dunno wot we’re doin’,
Or remember a word wot we said;
W’en the banks caught us down in their vaults,
sir,
They said things that we’ll never forget,
Though we told ’em we wasn’t at fault, sir—
We was shelterin’ there from the wet.
But you can’t explain that to the Beak, sir;
They don’t seem to see things our way,
An’ that’s w’ere the country is weak, sir,
W’ere judges ’as such a big say;
We got an ex-judge in our mob, sir;
’E tells us ’e’s one of the best,
An’ if e’s a haverage job, sir.
We knows wot to think of the rest. *
We met more misrepresentation
W’en we put everyone on the dole
An’ said, “Yez can ’ave a vacation
Instead of us goin’ f’r coal.”
We ’adn’t no mandate f’r gettin’
The coal wot the miners would not,
So we thought we could sit there and threaten
An’ let the community rot:
So, to say we are totalitarians
Is wicked, untrue and unsound,
We’re reely the timid an’ wary ’uns;
We never push people around;
Our way is to leave yez all brawl, sir.
In strikes and depressions, and then
We’ll soon see the lot of yez crawl, sir—
Yez ’ll all become Socialists then.
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“B. A. Ker”: A school photo taken
31 years ago springs some startling con-
tradictions on memory. With amaze-
ment I find that “Big Chiller” Whatshis-
name wasn’t a young giant at all; to-
day Fd dismiss him as a “big lump of a
kid —for 11.” The teacher, “Old Mum
So-and-So,” was a senile old crone of
fully 26 (and not a bad bit of homework,
either). Some of the kids are recognis-
able at first glance, but with others it is
utterly impossible to reconcile the child
with the adult. In character, too, strange
things have happened : one of the meekest
kids there took up boxing, in his late
’teens, and established a mighty reputation
in the district, and the most turbulent boy
in the class married very early and settled
down to fight nothing more aggressive
than garden pests. There are only two
girls without shoes in the photo.—and it
wouldn’t need a psychologist to explain
why their kids have always been the best-
dressed girls in the school. But my
youngsters won’t be convinced that the
fat-faced kid with the hair like a golliwog
is really me. I can’t blame them —it is
truly amazing that such a jungle of hair
could become such an arid desert.
* * * ♦
“Seventyniner”: It was the gunboat
Paluma, not the Gayundah, which was
stranded and then refloated in the Bris-
bane flood of 1893, and the scene of her
mishap was on the lower bank opposite
Kangaroo Point, a long way from where
“Petrie” (B. 21/9/’49) placed her. The
loss of life he refers to was three years
later. The northern half of the
Victoria Bridge went in the 1893
flood, and by 1896 a wooden tem-
porary section from Queen-street to
the remaining southern half had been
built, but owing to the mass of debris
piled against the bridge- it was closed.
There was no punt running across the
river on a wire; this would have been
almost impossible because of the debris
“We’ve had a terrific row.”
and the current. The small steamer Pearl
had been ferrying passengers to and from
South Brisbane after the bridge was
closed, and she had to pass the Govern-
ment yacht Lucinda, which''was anchored
in midstream. In trying to cross ahead of
Lucinda instead of astern, as on other
trips, she drifted on to the Lucinda’s
anchor-chain and capsized somewhere
about 4.30 p.m. I don’t know what the
death-roll was, but if all the people who
claimed to have just missed the fatal trip
could have been collected it would have
needed a Queen Mary to hold them.
“Petrie” didn’t mention the dredge plant
of about five vessels in a bunch which
broke loose from their moorings and took
a trip down the river on their own. Just
as well; he might have left them on Mt.
Cootha for another Noah’s flood to
shift them.
* * * ♦
“Twin Sylvie”: The lady was surging
through a Queen-street, Brisbane, crowd,
brolly under one arm, ferrule-end fore-
most. A sudden tug on the gamp made
her grip it the harder. As it refused to
budge, she redoubled her efforts, but in
vain. Wheeling to investigate the hold-
up she beheld a horror-stricken man, des-
perately hanging on to his trousers, which
the brolly crook was as desperately trying
ta pull off. The lady for the moment was
almost prepared to abandon the gamp.
* * * *
“Kali”: I leam we are shortly to see
an unusual type of ship. She’ll have the
“New Look,” slimmer at some points and
broader at others —the idea is to save
tonnage dues. I dunno much about ship-
ping, but the idea isn’t exactly new. On
the Chinese rivers dues are reckoned on
the carrying-capacity of the boat calcu-
lated by the beam at "the insert of the
mast. Thirty years ago, when the boat-
men heard that the charges were to be
raised and they looked for some means
of escape, it wasn’t long before a new
boat was on the job. Shaped like a
gigantic wasp, it was wide at fore and
stern, but constricted at the mast’s insert.
In Australia the public-bleeders would
have instituted some other method of
calculating the tax due, but the Chinese
Government, war-lord or bandit who was
receiving the tax allowed the old method
of computation to stand.
“Macnell”: A landsman friend re-
marked on the caption of a Press photo-
graph showing a surgeon being swung in-
board of an Enzed frigate at sea to attend
one of her crew down with appendicitis.
“In a ‘rough’ sea! ” he scoffed. “The water
in that picture’s as flat as a river.” In the
picture it was. But rough seas invariably
appear that way, photographically. To
a seaman’s eye several points denoted
salty weather. The frigate’s hedgehog
(a diabolical anti-sub. instrument which
sprays sub-calibre depth-charges ahead
and down on to a skulking submarine,
their explosions betraying its possie to
the big charges aft) was snugged down
under its heavy canvas cover ; the forrard
gun-mounting (normally bared to drying
sunshine) was also laced in canvas; and
along the side of a sister frigate in the
background a heavy swell slid wetly,
almost to the upper-deck. As well, she
streamed a haze of smoke flat at her
funnel lip. The opposite effect can be
obtained by photographing from low-
level—then a moderate swell can be made
to assume Himalayan proportions.
* * * *
“Clooter”: This season’s outburst of
attempts to swim the English Channel
must have complicated things for skippers
of cross-Channel packets. There seem to
be so many swim-
mers going and
coming that they
could expect, at any
time, to bump into
an English youth,
an American lass,
a Siamese or a couple
of Egyptians. The
apparition of
Egyptians in water
would startle any
old Digger with
memories of the
Gyppos he knew,
and this sudden
desire for distance
swims suggests
they’ve come a long
way since a bunch
of them failed
to make the Red
Sea crossing in pur-
suit of Moses and
the Israelites. But to
Gyppos and the rest
is to be added,
apparently, a trained
Canadian seal; and
a fictitious 80-year-
old crocodile alleged
to have been
presented to Cairo
Zoo by the Empress
Eugenie, wife of that
Napoleon 111 who
lost the Franco-
Prussian war, had
its hour in the
news before a story that it had been
entered in the contest by the Cairo Sports
Association was found to be a hoax played
on a world cable service. It’s all very edi-
fying, no doubt, but it seems to me that if
there is any big money going Australia
ought to be in it. A Murray bunyip, for
instance, could swim the pants off seal or
croc., real or otherwise, the latest of the
bunyip species having been seen at Den-
iliquin one night and off Wentworth the
next day, a swim of probably 500 miles
in 24 hours. Not even the Loch Ness
monster could beat that.
* * * *
“Becks”: A month ago the Indian
Constituent Assembly argued for three
days on the question of an official
language and numerals. The final de-
cision was that English should be used
for the time being, but must be replaced
by Hindi within 15 years; international
numerals will be used for 15 years, at the
end of which period the position will be
reviewed to see whether it is desirable or
practicable to introduce Hindi numerals.
English has been the official language in
India for over a century and a half, but
the change is quite understandable now
that India is an independent nation.
Unless the native languages were dropped
altogether the position would be similar
to that in England under the Norman
kings—one language for the ruling class
and another for the masses. With
numerals it is a different matter. India
need have no feeling of inferiority in
adopting the so-called international
system, since, according to the weight of
the evidence, she herself contributed more
than any other country towards originat-
ing the thing.
* * ♦ ♦
“Cotter”: There’s a yam going round
Canberra that one of the younger poli-
ticians got home after a trying session
in which the gag was frequently applied,
got nicely off to sleep, and was shaken
awake by his wife with the news that his
young son was shouting and talking in
his sleep. Rising firmly in the bed the
father said sleepily, “Mr. Speaker, I
move the adjournment of the debate,” and
fell back on the pillow with a sense of
duty done.
* * * ♦
“Dormie”: The gods of , chance can’t
be blind ; they must play favorites. Most
golfers footle their way from tee to green
by way of rough and bunker, and go
through their golfing career without ever
coming within inches of a hole-in-one,
yet at the Malden Golf Club in Surrey
(Eng.) last month a bloke, name of
Hebden, achieved the perfect fluke twice
in one day—the same hole each time. In
the morning his tee-shot at the 120-yards
10th pitched straight into the hole; in the
afternoon he was not so accurate —his
ball lobbed on the green and ran in. It
is impossible to compute accurately the
odds against such a happening, but in
America the New Xork “World-Telegram”
conducts an annual Hole-in-One tourna-
ment. In 14 contests 9366 players have
hit 46,830 shots, of which only five have
found the pot. That works out at one in
9366, on which basis the odds against the
Malden bloke’s performance were
87,721,956 to one.
* * * *
“Paul Pry”: The campaign for the elec-
tion of councillors for a North Queens-
land shire coincided with a drive by an
insurance office amongst the Italian cane-
“He might as Well DRINK out of her hand, too!”
farmers. The insurance agent was not
too familiar with the locality, so he got
the local police magistrate to go with
him while he visited an Italian reckoned
to be a good “prospect.” They found him
in a large paddock trying to repair a
tractor, Giuseppe listened without dis-
playing much interest to the sales-talk
concerning the benefits to be derived from
a policy, and finally looked up at the
magistrate and said “What name this
man, Mr. Magistrate?” “McPolicy,”
answered the magistrate. “All right, Mr.
McPolicy, I vote for you,” said Giuseppe.
* * * ♦
“Flathead”: Can’t speak of the value
of aerial photographs for coastal naviga-
tion (B. 5/10/’49), but they were a god-
send to the footslogger. Before a beach
landing, oblique-angle and vertical shots
would be taken so that the planners could
compare the prints with the map
pick up any danger-spot—wreckage tha
might stop a barge, or blockhouse lying
deadly in the palms. As the show moved
inland a couple of good photographs
under a stereoscope would tell much
about terrain and of any recent additions
to nature, and if studied at length they
could make a small patch of country one
had never seen as familiar as the ob-
server’s own backyard.
♦ * * ♦
“McNiblick”: At our holiday resort
he turned up with a set of new golf-clubs.
“Ever played before?” “No.” “Well,”
said the bloke on the lowest handicap,
“the best thing is to go and try it by
yourself for a round or two,” He did.
We saw him play out the sixth, then walk
to the tee and play it again.' “What’s the
idea?” we asked. “Well, isn’t that the
way it’s played? Where it says par four
on the card that means four times for
that hole, doesn’t it?”
♦ * * *
“Spokeshave”: I suspect that those
distinguished persons who deal with
world problems from university chairs
or high public places seldom know what
is going on in their own households. A
celebrated economist waxed reminiscent
at a dinner party. Suddenly his
son, now a young doctor, piped up.
“Do you remember, Dad,” he said,
“when you used to sit at your typewriter
in your study banging out articles on the
rising cost of living and I used to come
in to ask you for sevenpence for my
school lunch and you used to say ‘Get
it out of my purse’?” The old man re-
membered, and looked pleased at this
reference to his trust in human nature.
“Well, do you know,” said the young
man, “first I used to take one bob, then
I took two bob and then when I saw
you didn’t notice I used to take four,
and sometimes ten. When I left that
school my friends gave me a celebration,
and some of them wept at losing a public
benefactor.”
SOVEREIGNS.
“A return to golden sovereigns would help to
stabilise the purchasing-powe r of money, knight Walter
Massy-Greene said at the annual meeting of Gold
Mines of Australia, Ltd.” —News item.
Hear the jingle and the jangle of the quid,
As we banged ’em on bar counters —which we
did,
When we shook ’em in our pockets,
And then shot ’em out like rockets
And along the bar the golden gleamers slid.
How they glinted and they sparkled as they
spun,
When we set the shiners spinning just for fun:
Days when life for us was spangled,
Not with regulations tangled—
And the barmaids often asked us to have one.
Ah, the sovereigns of those easygoing times —
Pub doors closing just before the midnight
chimes,
On our watch-chains sovereign-cases,
Cabs and hansoms to the races;
And the young Bohemian circle writing rhymes.
I can see the clinkers shining down the days,
Theatre foyer—stout and oysters on the trays,
All the poets wrapped in wonder,
When their voices boomed like thunder —
And a shilling bought the very best of crays.
Oh, that spanking, burning coin of ruddy gold!
What a picture and a period to behold:
With St. George atop the dragon,
And our wine two-bob a flagon—
Aye, we’d like to see the sovs we had of old!
VICTORIA.
HACKO.
“Hamer”: Fred Broomfield, who, when
the wine talked, claimed that he was a
Grand Master of the Knights of St. John,
and often used that walking-stick of his
to bestow accolades, had a real duel on
his hands at one time. Some jokers egged
Fred, in a condition ripe for it, to the de-
fence of Australian womanhood against
disparaging remarks made, so they
alleged, by a Polish visitor who was being
entertained by the then completely Bo-
hemian Athenaeum Club. Fred flung his
glove Cent by an obliging friend) into the
face of the supposed insulting foreigner
and the duel was on. The party fell into
hansoms and drove with the two prin-
cipals to a spot in Centennial Park, where
the ponds are on the Randwick side. The
rules of a duel with pistols were punctili-
ously observed ; but, of course, the jesters
had seen to it that there were only blanks
in the revolvers. Shots having been ex-
changed, the duellists threw down the
pistols, rushed into an embrace and swore
an eternal friendship ; the party fell into
the cabs again and drove back to the
city for pies and coffee at the all-night
stalls.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Standby” attends a hunt:
A week after he arrived at the station the
collector for the American Academy of Science
had all hands reptile-conscious. The big Yank
had a way with him, and soon all manner of
lizards, and even snakes, came home in saddle-
pouches ; but it was Wonga who discovered
the prize exhibit —he’d found where a rock-
python lived: “A fifteen-footer, thicker than
y’r arm.”
Next day, piloted by Wonga, we set Out in
the station utility. We carried a pick and
shovel and a strong sack bag, for the python
was to be shipped home alive. Wonga led
us straight to the spot—a large hole in the
bank of a hard, dry gully—and we began to
dig, moving a lot of earth before we finally
uncovered a short length of shiny, golden-
brown snake. It was impossible to form an
estimate of length, but at least Wonga hadn’t
exaggerated about the girth. The Yank called
a halt to digging operations; he didn’t want
one scale of that python marked. Very care-
fully he eased out about seven feet of tail-
end, and began to pull. Not being fond of
snakes, I- moved away, much to Wonga’s
amusement. Rock-pythons weren’t venomous,
he pointed out. Besides, at this time of the
year they were too sleepy to do any damage.
Seeing that the Yank wasn’t making any pro-
gress Wonga grabbed a length of snake and
gave a hand. The two of them dug their heels
in and pulled steadily. They stretched that
seven feet of python to about ten, but still
they couldn’t budge him. “Slack ’im off a bit,”
Wonga - suggested. “One, two, now, both
together. Heave!”
, The python came. Not gradually, foot by
foot, but like the mainspring of an alarm-clock
flying but when some amateur clock-repairer
makes a slip, i Wonga and the big Yank landed
flat, on their backs, with a good fifteen feet
of writhing, striking, very-wideawake python
on fop of them. I didn’t see Wonga get to
his feet —I was busy moving out of the way—
but I know he beat me to the utility by a
good two yards. When we looked round the
Yank’s powerful hands were clamped firmly
behind the python’s jaws and he was yelling
for the bag.
* * * *
, “Wippegong”: Anyway, “Old-timer”
(B. 21/9/’49), the stronghold of the
bunyips was Gippsland ; it was only there
that a township had to be named in their
honor. They bred away up the Bunyip
River —the little ones used to take our
bait when we went after blackfish —and
as they grew up they moved downstream
and emerged as adults into the
Kooweerup swamp, which was formed by
the river leaving the hills and spread-
ing far and wide across the flats stretch-
ing towards Western Port Bay. There
they whooped and cavorted, to the ex-
hilaration of the patrons of the many sly-
grog shops that flourished while the
swamp was being drained, and I some-
times fancy that the way they scared the
matrons had something to do with the
wild race of youngsters produced in those
parts then. They’ve all gone now. The
Bunyip River is a placid old stream,
though in ’35 it burst out in a rage and
took a few lives, but that was probably
in resentment at having its waters with
the noble native name desecrated by the
introduction of foreign trout ; and the
erstwhile swamp is now one great, green
garden. But in the early days you had to
watch out; it wasn’t only the bunyips—
the next station along the line was called
Cannibal Creek.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”: One of the most ener-
getic fish in our northern waters is the
giant kingfish. It is not rare for one
to go clean through a foresail as it
overshoots in an upward parabola in .pm>
suit of prey. Just on dusk five feet and
50 pounds of threshing fury catapulted
suddenly from out the darkness and
landed foursquare on the table inside my
launch cockpit. In five devastating
seconds the crockery was reduced to
debris, a Binghi crew-boy’s shin was laid
bare, I sat on and caved in my new pith
helmet, and the launch caught fire as a
result of the overturned primus before
the invader volplaned out to sea again.
Whilst I fought and ultimately subdued
the flames the only bright spot in the
melancholy business was provided by an-
other member of- the Binghi crew, who,
with great presence of mind, seized the
blazing primus and hurled it away to
land plumb-centre in the thwarts of the
trailing dinghy, which, at that stage, would
have been our only' possible escape from
the holocaust into which our craft
seemed likely to be converted.
* * * *
“S.E.”: Charlie dropped his elbow
back on the bar-top, and half turned to
“Now I can tell ’em what to do with their petrol !”
find, a few feet away, a face he had never
seen before. “Stranger round here,
ain’t y’?” he opened, after almost a
minute’s inspection.! “Yes,” said the
bloke. “Come from over Rabbitville
way. At least, I’ve been there for the
last six or eight years.” “Rabbitville,
eh?” Charlie’s voice bristled with
interest. “Gripes, yair, I know it. Nice
little town, Rabbitville.” “Not bad,”
agreed the stranger. “Good hall they’ve
got, and a good football team.” “And
some good farms, too,” nodded Charlie.
“That country o’ Hanlon’s, f’r instance.
Good land that, if it was cleaned up.
Know it?” “Can’t say I do.” “Or
there’s Thompkin’s place, an’ Martin’s,
and that bush block of Sam Watson’s.
Y’ know them at all?” “Well, I didn’t
get out that way.” “No?” said Charlie.
“Know the other side better, do y’? Out
Coxen’s way. Y’ ever been on Coxen’s
place? Or Trilby’s? Or Shrimpton’s?
No? Well, what did y’ think o’ that
country o’ Langridge’s, just near town?
Good grazin’ land that, if it \yas dug
out.” “Langridge’s? Yes, he’s got a
property there somewhere,” agreed
the bloke, “but I can’t say I was ever on
it,” “What, and y’ was in the place all
them years! Cripes, mate, what did y’
do over there?” The stranger swelled
“ Weren't you ever taught to knock before entering a lady's room ?”
with self-importance. “I was the rabbit
inspector,” he explained.
* .* * *
“Old-timer” : One of those “down-the-
line” outer-metropolitan race meetings
was over, and outside the course three or
four coves were having trouble getting a
nervous young thoroughbred into a
motor-float. They pushed, shoved, cajoled
and sweated to no avail. They desisted
while one led the horse slowly round on
the grass to soothe it, then they tried
again. It was no good. A disreputable.
bearded bloke sat watching all this,
passing occasional comment to the dog
lying besides him. One of the strugglers
hailed him,. “Hey, give us a hand! ” He
arose and sauntered to them. The dog
sat up and watched him closely. It half
rose, but squatted again when he said
“Sit.” At the float he eyed the horse and
its attendants, spat and said “FT half a
nicker I’ll put him in in three seconds.
Wouldn’t ask y’, only I’m broke an’ ”
They heaped profane scorn on him and
turned to their task. Twenty minutes
later they called “All right. Have a go.”
Whiskers sauntered over again. He took
the bridle reins and led the horse to the
ramp. “Now, you blokes, stand back,” he
said. With sceptical looks they obeyed.
Whiskers gave a low whistle. The greyish-
blue dog came sidling up. Whiskers
manoeuvred the horse. “Blue,” he said.
The dog snaked in at the horse’s hind
heels, snapped and was away as the horse
positively flew into the float. “Y’ can’t
beat a good dog,” Whiskers said, pocket-
ing the half-note.
♦ * # *
“Nor’-west”: Mention of the wreck
of the Gilt Dragon (De Verguilde Draeck)
(B. 7/9/’49) recalls that there have been
quite a few surmises as to where the
treasure may still lie. But the bulk of
evidence is that it went down with the
ship. When the seven survivors reached
Batavia on June 7, 1656, they carried a
note from the captain giving the location
of the wreck as 30.2-3 south; also stating
that at the time of departure of the long-
boat the Wreck was lying in quite shallow
water, and if Malay divers were quickly
dispatched it might be possible, by diving,
to recover most of the silver. How-
ever, although the next day two ships,
Witte Valeg (White Falcon) and Goed
Hoop (Good Hope), were dispatched,
nothing was found. The following year
three ships searched the W.A. coast, again
unsuccessfully, though one ship did report
a landing at the mouth of a river in the
locality of the wreck, and there coming
upon the remains of what had been the
camping-place of a large number of men.
It was surmised that these had marched
north with the hope of reaching North-
West Cape, at the mouth of Exmouth
Gulf, that being the final New Holland
landfall to the Dutchmen. It is strange
how a body of over 50 men, probably
armed and fairly well equipped, could
have so completely disappeared. For not
even a rusty cutlass or a gunlock has been
found on the long trail from Jurien Bay
to Exmouth Gulf, though it has been
well-trodden in the intervening years.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I don’t care how fast
y’ chuck the hay up t’ me,” the boss said
as we went out for the first wagon-load.
With Mat on one side and me on the
other we dug the first stocks into him and
he took them well. He was well up on the
second load when I heard him yell and
a sheaf hit me on the head. I jumped
aside and looked up. 1 couldn’t see him,
so I looked under the wagon. Mat was
still forking on the other side, so I heaved
up another sheaf. Then I heard Mat
yell as another sheaf hit me on the head.
Spitting out oats and straw I went round
the wagon, to find Mat doing the same
thing. We looked at each other and
yelled up at the load. A voice answered
from the front, and we found the boss
astride the broad back of a shafter. “They
was a floppin’ great snake in that sheaf,”
he said, “so I chucked it orf, but I
couldn’t be sure the flamer hadn’t dropped
out, so I got down here an’ waited t’ see if
it hit one of you blokes.” It took me till
next day to persuade Mat not to hop into
him.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: More painful than even the
pre-initiation ceremony of the Torres
Straits adolescents (B. 7/9/’49) was the
system of profuse blood-letting which was
the chief part of the stock-in-trade of the
tribal “purri-purri man,” or medicine
merchant. Letting “the bad blood out”
was the panacea for all ailments from in-
growing toenails to a broken leg. Even
day-old infants were subjected to the
process, often with fatal results. On
Saibai Island a native victim of snake-
bite had just been snatched back to life by
the latest scientific methods as applied by
a white official when the relatives called
in the purri-purri man, who disagreed
with the treatment and substituted the
time-honored blood-letting process. The
victim was ‘dead in an hour. I admit,
however, that on Mabuiag a degree of in-
discriminate blood-letting might be a good
thing. Owing to daily gorging on the du-
gong beef, which, mammals teem round
Ormon Reef skirting the island, each man-
mountain among the population appears
to be a perambulating case of blood-
pressure. For bulk and bonhomie the
Mabuiagites are without parallel in Torres
Straits.
**♦ • ♦
“Waaia”: We met him on the outback
road. He was on horseback, and carried
a stockwhip, and had a heeler with him.
He hailed us with “ ’Mornin’,” and with-
out waiting for a reply, asked : “ ’Ave
youse seen a mob of red heifers —only one
of ’em is a steer with a spot of white on
’im now an’ then?”
* * * *
“0.R.K.”: A few miles from Lismore
(N.S.W.) I have often observed the
platypus in its native habitat, the usual
underwater tunnel that slopes upward
so that finally it is above water-level, and
in the widened chamber of which the
platypus lays its eggs and rears its young.
Floods, however, often cause the river
to rise up to 15ft, above the chamber.
Soon after the water subsides the platypus
is again in his old haunts. But the ques-
tion remains: Where does the creature go
when its chamber is submerged?
* * * *
“Angus”: It can only be supposed that
the incentive came from watching these
fishermen dragging overripe meat over
the sands and grabbing with a pair of
pliers the unsuspecting worm that pokes
its head up for a sniff of the beautiful
fodder —and those worms are measured
by the foot. Anyway, one Neville Dennis,
a tough citizen of 18 months from Kyogle,
on the N.S.W. North Coast, picked up a
3 ft. green snake and thoughtfully started
chewing operations. Joe was in such a
state about the reversal of roles that he
didn’t even retaliate, though it took some
little while for his anxious mother to per-
suade Nev to discard his find. Gripes,
can’t a feller eat his snake raw if he feels
like it?
* * * *
“Kasi Api”: The Taguls, a tribe of the
interior of British North Borneo, have
the edge on our abos when it comes to
speed in making fire. A hunting-party
we contacted decided to light the com-
munity pipe during heavy rain. Means
of ignition was a piece of bamboo about
6in. long, a tinder made of the soft part
of some bark and a striker, a piece of
old china about the size of a shilling-
piece. A pinch of tinder was taken be-
tween the forefinger and thumb and
placed on top of the striker held in the
right hand. The stopper was replaced
and, holding the bamboo in the left hand,
the native made two or three sharp strikes
with the right, and the fluff on igniting
was immediately blown into a smoulder-
ing mass and pressed into the bowl of
the pipe. It took very little practice to
acquire the art.
GOBBLER.
By the cut
Of his strut,
A rather irascible sort.
Very red
In the head —
Blood pressure, pr fond of his port.
Be quick, there!
My stick, there!
Short-tempered and ready to snort.
• 1 By gad, Sir!
Not bad, Sir!
In private a bit of a sport.
No wobbler,
The gobbler—
But quick with the angry retort.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


“I-LOVE-Y OU.”
The great musician, when he was yet young,
Wandering alone and sad in a dark wood,
The brooding oaks and purple thorns among,
Deep in his trance, and lost in pensive mood,
Dreamily, passively, hardly heeding, heard
An elfin cadence from the carolling thrush
Piercing with golden wire the throbbing hush,
And caught into his soul the soul of the bird;
Thereafter spent a long, long life composing,
Knitting the thousand threads into one theme,
Among the notes of nature freely choosing,
Floating over earth as one in dream,
Building a myriad spires over one base,
Three notes, three words, old nature’s soul
revealing,
Sprung from the mating bird’s immortal phrase,
Woven with winds and stars and seagulls
wheeling—
A trinity of words, sublime, serene,
Whether inspired of waters, lights or leaves,
Two pronouns with a verb between,
Like Christ between the thieves.
n.z. Arnold Wall.
* * ♦ *
“Gee”: On a long trip through s.-w.
Queensland we knew from the map that
we should be nearing a small township-
how small we did not then realise —where
we could put up for the night. It was
11.30 and a moonless night, and, as we’d
been driving solidly since 5 a.m., taking
turns at the wheel, w© were dead-tired.
At last Tom decided he couldn’t wait for
a bed at the township, and, pulling up the
ear, lit a fire and boiled the billy. Stand-
ing, mugs in hand, we glanced around.
“What’s that over there?” Tom’s eyes,
accustomed to the surroundings, peered
into the gloom for a while, then went to
investigate. The building was old and
dusty, but unmistakably a shop. Further
inspection revealed that, unwittingly, and
like “Bo’s” swaggie (B. 21/9/’49), we had
made our fire in the only street of the
town, which consisted of a hotel, a store,
a stock-and-station agency (prerequisite of
all townships, however microscopic, in
that area), a post-office and four houses.
In folding up tents and as silently stealing
away we made the Arabs look like a herd
of elephants.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Solitude”: “Lorst me blasted pocket-
knife again t’day,” growled Seventyfiver
one evening. “Dunno how. Didn’t use
it nowhere. Trouble is I rode miles in
that bush, an’ I ain’t got much idea when
I lorst it,” “We’ve got to take those
steers in tomorrow,” I reminded, “Can’t
go,” he replied. “Think you can manage
’em?” “I can manage all right, but you’ll
lose darned good money for a two-day
trip.” “Can’t help it, Sol,” he announced.
“Got to find me knife while I remember
where t’ look.” He was still looking when
I returned. “Are you going over to
Sandy’s for your chaff?” I asked him.
“Sandy won’t keep it after this morning,
and it will cost twice as much elsewhere.”
“It’ll have t’ cost it then,” he snapped.
“Man can’t do a thousand things at
once.” He was very late the following
night, but arrived in with a gleam of
triumph. “Found it!” he greeted. He
ransacked a pocket and displayed an
ancient broken - bladed knife, badly
rusted. “Gripes,” I sniffed, “it’s not much
of a knife.” “No, but that ain't the point,
Sol,” he declared weightily. “Don’t y’
see, it’d cost me thirteen bob in at ol’
George’s to get another, an’ this’n I got
’ll prob’ly last a while yet.”
* * ♦ *
“Sou’-west”: While the set line
is being pulled in “B. Marana’s”
snapper (B. 14/9/’49), or whatever
was hooked, would probably be
drowned, so apart from the need to
get on with the job there wouldn’t have
been too great a need to cut off the hook.
When fishing with a two-hook line for
school-snapper on the W.A. coast we
generally cut off both hook and fish, this
being, much quicker than trying to un-
hook a struggling 10- or 15-pounder, with
a similar capture struggling a yard or so
lower down the line. But for rebaiting
for the next cast we didn’t tie on another
hook as a hook. Before starting we
always laid by a couple of hundred
hooks, each fitted with a 12in. snood.
Thus it was only the matter of a couple
of half-hitches around the main line, the
work of a second, and the line was ready
again. With the big snapper “on the bite”
speed was the essence of the contract.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: The early Torres
Straits islanders had an offensive counter-
part of the defensive device employed by
“Tidapa’s” Indonesians against mayhem-
minded Malays (B. 28/9/’49). The T.S.
plaything was a bamboo-hoop about 15in.
in diameter spliced to the end of a 4ft.
stock. Projecting about 9in. from where
the hoop joined was a murderous spike.
The pursuing pot-hunter simply caught
the chin of his decamping quarry with the
encircling hoop and jerked vigorously,
thus driving the spike into the victim’s
spinal-cord at the base of the skull. Up
till a few years ago the grisly festoons on
the Sibiu Piu or Tree of Skulls in the
village clearing on Boigu Island attested
the prowess of the local team in its
seasonal fixtures with the mainlanders of
the Fly River delta country. A pic-
turesque Boigu-ite was old Bau. Though
a mendicant menace when I knew
him, he bore a livid necklace of scars as a
souvenir of the occasion on which he
nearly lost his block to a visiting Tugeri
team, whose decapitation process,
laboriously executed with bamboo knives,
was interrupted by a defensive sortie by
the home team.
* * * *
“Junius” (San Rafael, Calif., U.S.A.):
With due respect to “Helldud” (B.
20/7//49) Californian redwood is, by
“There he goes again—thinks hes a St. Bernard."
many years of test in various parts of the
world, resistant to borers and white-ants.
I cannot vouch for Californian redwood
resisting the marine borer, as redwood
is seldom used for piling, being too soft
for the purpose, but decay-proof against
water itself. If termites attacked
laminated sweeps of redwood and
colonial-pine they were undoubtedly after
the pine. I have seen these ruthless fellows
build their tunnel-tubing over wide areas
of Californian redwood to get to pine, and
not damage redwood on the way. I
buried a piece of redwood and also a
piece of Oregon pine in an ant-infested
region of the Transvaal and had a look at
both after three years; the pine was
almost completely consumed, but the red-
wood was intact. I have been told that
had redwood alone been buried it would
have been tackled. I doubt it. The ter-
mite doesn’t like redwood ; he is not very
fond of Westralian jarrah either, but will
go for all the pines, cypress pine not so
readily.
♦ ■ * ♦ *
“Colonial Cove”: If John Ridley
plagiarised John Wrathall Bull’s ideas
of the stripper (B. 14/9/’49) in 1843
and produced a workable machine
the next year, 1844, he must have
got a quick move on in organising
his export trade, for the Perth
“Gazette” of July 4, 1846, announced the
arrival of one of Ridley’s newly-invented
machines in Westralia. The purchaser
was Major Irwin, twice Lieut.-Governor
of the Swan River Settlement, and he
used it on his estate on the Middle Swan.
Not altogether a success on that first year
of trial, the machine did good work
through the next harvest, and it was
“Never mind about finding your lolly, dear—ask Auntie for another one."
anticipated that a number would soon be
at work on western wheatfields. But the
machine, left standing overnight in one
of Irwin’s fields, met with a singular mis-
fortune: somebody removed the most
essential part, the comb. This item of
Ridley’s machine weighed 1801 b., and
was not only taken from the machine
but also from all human ken. Rewards
totalling £6O, with pardon for an
accomplice-informer, were offered, but
without result. Blacktrackers were em-
ployed in the effort to trace footprints,
while the reaches of the near-by Swan
were dragged ; but the affair remained a
mystery. Westralian fields prior to the
advent of Ridley’s machine had been
mown with sickle and scythe, and it was
thought that some harvest-hands had
taken drastic action to scotch what they
deemed was a menace to their livelihood.
* * * *
“Zake”: The prospective buyer who was
being shown over Barton’s property was
a lugubrious individual with a hangdog
look and a voice to match. Nothing that
he saw pleased him; with the obvious
intention of putting everything in as bad
a light as possible so as to hammer the
price down he growled about the soil,
wondered what kept the house and sheds
from falling apart, decried the state of the
fences and the sties, moaned about the
exposed position and the absence of
shelter-trees, etc. Barton stood it for a
while, then pointed to the railway-line
running outside the eastern boundary
fence, “You’ll find that a distinct ad-
vantage,” he said. The p.b. looked sourly
at the twin steel ribbons. “I’d have my
trucks,” he said. “Where would be the
advantage?” “Well,” said Barton quietly,
“when you got sick of listening to your-
self moaning about the taxes you’d have
to pay on your record crops you could
go and enjoy putting your head on one
of the rails some Tuesday morning—that’s
when the weekly mixed comes past.”
* * * *
“Billy T.”: Agree with “Betcha” as far as
he goes (B. 28/9/’49), but there are other
cases about which I’m not so sure. The
hen emu lays the eggs but leaves the old
man to settle on them, if necessary belt-
ing him to it with a nagging accompani-
ment that suggests he’s a worthless waster
for not being able to do the complete job
himself. Then the other day I spent a
couple of hours in the shade near a pee-
wees’ nest (since coming on to the 40-
hour week I’m sometimes a bit pushed
to fill it in) and counted the trips made
to feed the wheezing youngsters whose
beaks were just appearing over the rim.
Each bird had taken a share at incuba-
tion, but in each half-hour the old man
made four trips to the hen’s two —there
was no mistaking them; she has a white
throat, but his bib is black. Coming to
Australia’s grandest industry, we don’t
find many mares holding records, do we?
Though I’m not too sure of that, having
walked out of Flemington in disgust
last time Desert Gold was beaten, and
haven’t been back. I’ve a fancy, too, that
amongst poets, painters, musicians and
even cooks the leaders wear long ’uns.
I’d better stop there, but a bloke has to
take risks sometimes ; anyway, the wife
is on holidays and she mightn’t see this
issue.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: In my experience dif-
ferent localities use different names for
the same species of tree or vegetation;
but nut-grass (B. 7/ 9 / ’49) reverses the
order —two distinctly different species are
known by that not-very-popular name.
The true nut-grass is a creeper that sends
down fresh roots as it spreads; it is
almost ineradicable. In Suburbia, how-
ever, what we used to call “pudding-
grass” or onion-grass is generally called
nut-grass. A bulb, it comes up in winter,
resists the attack of any lawnmower—
simply by bowing to the blades, then
springing up again—flowers in September,
and dies off. Each flower leaves, after it
dies, the little green “puddin’ ” that we
used to enjoy chewing when we were
kids. A sweet-tasting little seed-pod, it
contains four or five embryo bulbs which,
if they escape juvenile teeth, return to
earth and ensure a bigger crop next year.
I once heard the definition of an optimist:
“A man who tries to get nut-grass out
of a lawn.” One ardent gardener I knew
swore a vendetta on the stuff. He never
defeated it; but he was holding his own
when his mother-in-law came to spend a
holiday. On her second day she came
home very elated, “There’s such a pretty
little pinkish flower growing wild in the
park,” she said. “It’s a bulb of some
sort. I dug some up ; if you nurse them
carefully I think they’ll grow.” They
didn’t.
♦ * ♦ *
“Bo”: The willy-willy that tore through
Tant’s place plucked off its stand the
round 600-gallon corrugated tank which
the lengthy drought had long since
emptied. The tank spun around a few
times and then started to roll down the
paddock just as the new hand came across
making for the shelter of the homestead.
Looking up as he heard the racket he
caught sight of the tank bearing down on
him. Getting panicky, he started to run
downhill ahead of the tank instead of
making for one of the flanks. Dad and
ALf were watching from the lee side of
the kitchen as the rolling tank, gathering
pace, started to overhaul the fleeing hand.
The harder he ran the faster seemed to
become the tank’s momentum, but just as
the thing was a few yards behind him it
hit a gibber and slewed off, to career away
at a tangent. It was then that Alf pulled
his hat off and threw it down in disgust.
“At, cripes, wouldn’t it!” he growled to
his sire, “The on’y blanky chance I’ve
ever had to see one o’ them photo.-
finishes, and then the blasted thing’s
mucked up!”
* * * *
“Abdul”: The solitary old boar
climbed out of the billabong and
sauntered to a shrub. As he adjusted his
huge body to the small shade he turned
broadside on, making a perfect target at
80 yards. As the .44 dum-dum started
for his bladebone he dropped to his knees
to lie down and got a gash across his
withers. Three rounds rapid dropped him
6ft. from me. He never flinched as the
first two bullets crashed between his eyes,
barely missing the brain. The last shot
went through his cheek and smashed his
shoulder, leaving me with one in the
magazine and a suddenly trembling right
hand. He had a fine pair of tusks.
* ♦ * ♦
“W. Court”: Luckily the bloke who is
really crazy over horses or cows is only
met with occasionally. He collects a mob
or herd with the ambitious idea that he’s
going to supply his district with hacks or
draughts, or beef or milk. Presently he
realises that about all he’s going to get
out of it is the enjoyment of seeing them
running about. Still later a drought
comes, his paddocks, overstocked, are
eaten out, and his waterholes drunk out.
He finds his beloved stock paying off in
earnest then. Worry lest they starve, die
of thirst or be burned alive in a fire
shadows him all day and beds with him at
night. He would gain immensely ,in
freedom from care if the lot were wiped
out. But no! He tides them over this
drought and the next, and the more he
does for them the less they bother about
him. They all die out at last, and he’s
left utterly exhausted, with most of his
neighbors at loggerheads with him.
* * * *
“Arn”: Poison baits and traps of every
conceivable kind had been to no avail,
for that old-man rat was possessed of
diabolical cunning; yet in the end, after
plaguing us for years, he trapped himself
in the simplest way. The lawnmower had
evidently run over a piece of apple, a
small portion of which had clung to the
cutting-blade before the machine was
oiled and put away. The rodent’s nose
had been caught and he used his feet to
free himself —they spun the blades the
wrong way, for him.


The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australian Consolidated Industries, Ltd.
, Dividends , Nominal
Net Pref. Re-
May, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.*
£ £ £ £
A.C.I. and Subsidiaries,!
*42§ 427,864 15,750 7J p.c. = 318,273 3,322,988
Loss, sale of assets, £1869.. .. 3,321,069
’43 829,324 15,750 6i p.c. = 802,821 3,331,822
Loss, sale of assets, £295.. .. 3,331,527
’44 341,851 15,750 6J p.c. t= 302,821 3,354,807
Profit, sale of assets, £8063 .. 3,357,870
’45 392,186 15,750 7 p.c. = 814,037 3,420,269
Loss, sale of assets, £7,792 .. 3,412,477
’46 402,578 15,750 7 p.c. = 314,037 3,485,268
From inner reserves, £823,360 .. 4,308,628
’47 475,761 15,750 7 p.c. = 314,037 4,454,602
June,
From inner reserves, £135,414 .. 4,590,016
’4B 472,320 15,750 8 p.c. t= 858,899 4,687,687
Net unexplained additions, £97,446 4,785,133
Share premiums, £650,503.. .. 5,435,636
Exchange surplus, £79,433.. .. 5,515,069
’49 542,435 15,750 9 p.c. = 423,949 5,617,805
* Subject to goodwill, etc. (now £2,406,899).
t Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves.
§ 14 months.
The sharp rise of £70,115 in the latest
profit figure, and the lift in' the div., sur-
prised the market, which, further en-
couraged by the chairman’s expression of
confidence in the continued expansion of
the undertaking, lengthened the bid for
the f.-p. pound ords. from 525. 3d. at end
Aug. to 595, 3d. last weekend. At the
higher figure the immediate return is
3 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div. basis. So the in-
vestor who looks for 4 p.c. on his money
counts on a 12 p.c. distribution and/or
other benefits. The well-protected 9 p.c.
prefs. at 455. 9d. yield 4.4 p.c. Net tan-
gible cover (book-value) is £47 10s. prefs,
and 335. ords.
The parent (a holding co.) and its score
or more subsidiaries constitute one of the
major industrial groups in the Common-
wealth. Operations extend throughout
all the States and New Zealand and north
to Singapore, and cover a wide range of
products. These include glass bottles (the
line on which the business grew up), a
variety of other glass containers, window-
glass, pressed and blown glass, plastics,
refractories, cartons, corkboard and a
variety of engineering materials, such as
fabricated steel, tools, bolts, nuts, etc.
To help finance the year’s growth of
£1,720,578 in total assets, 448,623 new
£1 ords. were issued (one-for-ten) at a
premium of 295. each in Nov., 1948. That
lifted paid capital to £5,109,856 in 175,000
9 p.c. prefs. and 4,934,856 ords. The
premium (£650,503), which makes 9 p.c.
on the new ords. worth only 3.6 p.c., was
added to reserves. After allowing
£632,809 (up £84,515) for depreciation,
equal to 14.6 p.c.of the book-value of fixed
assets, and something for taxation and
other contingencies, as well as for losses
totalling £68,143 in three subsidiaries, de-
clared profit was £542,435. That leaves
out of the reckoning an unexplained
addition to reserves of £97,446 net, and a
surplus of £79,433 on account of
exchange. The £542,435 was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 11.2 p.c. on
average ord. capital, compared with 10.1,
10.3, 8.6, 8.4 and 7.2 p.c. back to 1944.
On capital as it now stands, the pref. div.
and 9 p.c. to the ords. will call for
£459,887, or £82,548 less profit than was
claimed last term.
During the year the Singapore glass-
ware factory came into production and is
running smoothly, and a second furnace is
to be blown-in there in a few weeks’ time ;
production of glazed wall-tiles began in
Sydney, and, for the first time since the
war, glass bricks were turned out again.
These new activities, which aren’t likely
to have contributed much, if anything, to
last year’s profit, can be expected to
strengthen the current term’s earnings.
Projects in hand include (1) new
glass furnaces at Sydney and Mel-
bourne, claimed to be the largest
of their kind in the world, which
are expected to begin work early
in 1950; (2) erection of new glass-
container works at Hobart, Tas., now
well in hand, and at Christchurch, N.Z.,
where the factory site has been bought;
(3) manufacture of crockery, for which a
factory site has been purchased ,in Mel-
bourne and some plant is in hand; and
(4) capacity of the window-glass and flint
and blown and press glassware and other
sections of the business is to be expanded.
So, provided costs —major part of which
are outside the management’s control —
don’t get out of hand, net earnings can
be expected to improve further as output
of existing plant units of the group
approach capacity and new units come
into production. Unfortunately, a large
part of industry’s costs is frozen hard,
and Government “planning” has been
more effective in getting us into this strait-
jacket than it is likely to be in getting us
out of it.
The next table shows the financial set-
up of this big and expanding organisa-
tion :
Consolidated Balance-sheet Figures.
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £4,661,233 £4,661,233 £5,109,856
Outside interests* 45,483 46,258 63,605
Sundry creditors! 998,001 1,442,213 1,712,868
Freehold .. . . 1,664,742 1,748,034 1,761,349
Plant, etc. ~ 2,103,312 2,248,869 2,574,301
Shares, etc. 805,883 917,391 1,133,181
Stocks . . .. 2,150,755 2,624,579 3,289,811
Debtors . . .. 822,486 829,107 1,215,855
Bonds, cash, etc... 389,758 244,456 363,033
Intangibles .. 2,366,342 2,372,526 2,416,748
Inter-co. balance! 32,200 50,969 2,231
* Including proportion reserves. f Including tax
provision, etc. t Due to differences in balance date.
The new capital, share premiums, surplus
earnings, etc., and an extra £270,656 from
outsiders went mainly into plant (up
£325,432), stocks (up £665,232) and
debtors’ -balances (up £386,748). The
increase of £215,790 in shareholdings and
of £118,577 in Government securities,
cash, etc., partly reflects growth of the
insurance subsidiary. When the books
closed more-or-less liquids, excluding
shareholdings, exceeded outside liabilities
by £3,155,831 (up £899,902).
Peters American Delicacy (Sydney)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 87,537 8.9 p.c. = 72,991 14,546 360.806
1941.. 77,306 8.9 „ „ 74,498 2,808 363,614
1942.. 70,637 8 „ „ 66,751 3,886 367,500
1943.. 83,825 9 „ „ 75,095 8,730 376,230
1944.. 85,478 9 „ „ 75,095 10,383 386,613
Inner reserves disclosed, £37,850 .. 424,463
From tax reserve, £20,000 .. .. 444,463
1945.. 86,166 9 p.c. c= 75,095 11,071 455,534
1946.. 87,076 9 „ „ 75,681 11,395 466,929
1947.. 86,591 9 „ „ 76,566 10,025 476,954
Profit, sale of assets, £2300 .. 479,254
1948.. 96,898 9 p.c. = 78,045 18,853 498,107
1949.. 98,069 9 „ „ 78,648 19,421 517,528
Declared policy of this big holding co.,
which has half-a-dozen operating off-
shoots under its wing in N. S, Wales, is
to “consolidate and expand activities in
a manner best calculated to maintain in-
ternal strength and enable payment of a
constant rate of dividend.” So, although
the curtain remains drawn over the figures
of the operating cos., the market, which
is also mindful of the history of the
business, looks upon the parent as a
steady 9 p.c. proposition, and is pre-
pared to wait for its benefits. It there-
fore prices the f.-p. 14s. shares at 345. 6d.
(395. 6d. a year ago), giving an im-
mediate return of 3.6 p.c. on a 9 p.c. div.
basis.
Despite the rocketing of labor, raw-
material, package and other operating
costs, the parent was able to show £1173
more profit last term, thanks partly to
increased turnover and partly to savings
following modernisation of equipment and
increased efficiency in processing and dis-
tribution. The £98,069 of profit (best
since 1938) was 11.2 p.c. on capital as
against 11, 10.1 and 10.3 p.c. for the
three preceding years. Total provisions
of the group for taxation and deprecia-
tion were £56,552 (down £48,148) and
£106,474 (up £22,002) respectively.
Here are the parent’s balance-sheet
figures, which don’t tell much:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £854,128 £873,874 £873,874
Creditors* .. .. 9,085 9,976 9,090
Shares in subsidiaries 1,217,065 1,217,065 1,257,065
Shares other cos., etc. 125,308 121,098 121,328
Debtors .. .. 1,380 1,630 300
Cash and bonds .. 34,845 81,485 61,123
* Includes provision for taxation.
Holdings in subsidiaries are Peters Ice
Cream Pty. £1,000,000 (unchanged),
Peters Creameries Pty. £175,000 (up
£25,000), Peters Ice Cream (S. Aust.) Pty.
£25,000 (unchanged), Peters Refrigeration
Pty., a new offshoot, £15,000, and other
subsidiaries £42,065 (unchanged).
Backbone of the group is Peters Ice
Cream Pty., which made a one-for-one
bonus, issue when it took over the parent’s
ice-cream business in 1939. Last term its
profits were “very satisfactory.” Sales
were a record, additions were made to the
Sydney and Newcastle factories, new self-
refrigerating vehicles carrying a greater
pay-load were added to the transport
fleet, and auxiliary generating equipment
kept plant running during the coal strike
and power blackouts.
The creamery, at Taree, earned “quite
satisfactory profits,” although part of its
milk supplies were diverted to the metro-
politan area. To ensure future supplies
to the Sydney ice-cream co., the Taree
creamery has set up a subsidiary of its
own, Peters Creameries (Grafton) Pty.,
and has increased its issued capital (all
held by the parent) by £25,000 for the
purpose. The new grandchild will also aid
expansion of the old-established dairy-
produce business of Foley Bros. (Sydney),
in which the parent bought a controlling
interest a couple of years back.
The idea behind the new refrigerating
subsidiary is to centralise manufacture,
repair and servicing of the ice-cream co.’s
power cabinets, which have been a help-
ful factor in maintaining sales.
The Adelaide co. remains inoperative,
owing to building restrictions. Peters
(Vic.), Peters (W.A.), Peters Arctic (Q.)
and Peters Arctic (N.Q.) are all financially
well-ribbed associates which maintained
their dividend rates last term.
Carpet Manufacturers, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- De-
June, Profit, f- —Dividend v serves, licit.*
& £ £ £
1940 .. 7,154 5 p.c. = 3,773 3,381 10,416
Added intangibles, £92 .. .. 10,508
1941 .. 6,670 5 p.c. = 5,371 1,299 9,209
1942 .. 8,144 7i „ „ 8,195 9,260
1943 .. 7,646 6 „ „ 6,556 1,090 8,170
1944 .. 8,565 6 „ „ 6,556 2,009 6,161
1945 .. 9,628 6 „ „ 7,272 2,356 3,805
1946 .. 13,331 71 „ „ 9,983 3,348 457
Reserves.*
1947 .. 19,206 10 „ „ 13,311 5,895 5,438
From tax reserve, £6718 .. .. 12,156
Profit sale Govt, securities, £655 .. 12,811
1948 .. 24,371 10 p.c. = 13,908 10,463 23,274
To staff fund, £5OOO 18,274
1949 .. 24,437 10 p.c. ■= 21,656 2,781 21,055
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. .. 19,055
•After deducting intangibles (now £7517) and
excluding depreciation reserve (now £63,182).
ftaving consolidated its position under
the shelter of war and early post-war
conditions—production began as recently
as 1938 —this manufacturer of high-grade
and standard Axminster carpets and rugs
from locally-spun yarns continues to find
a ready market for an increasing output.
This, despite growing competition from
imports and rising costs and selling prices,
owing to wage-lifts, abolition of subsidies
and increase in price of raw materials and
everything else the co. uses.
Shareholders, who got into the picture
with 5 p.c. in the third year of opera-
tions, have had 10 p.c. for each of the
last three terms, making the average rate
of distribution over the last decade 7.3
p.c. Also, at June 30, they could see
the whole of their capital intact and
£19,055 besides, without taking into
account a depreciation reserve of £63,812,
equal to 20.1 p.c. of the book-value of
premises and plant, which appear at cost.
Last term the new .boiler, scouring- and
dyeing-houses came into operation, but
trading was retarded by official delays
in sanctioning higher selling-prices to
help offset the effects of the withdrawal
of subsidies on wool and cotton going into
local consumption. And plant stopped
running during the last week of the term,
owing to the coal strike, but was soon got
going again following installation of
auxiliary-power equipment, which is an
insurance against future power failures
and power-rationing.
After setting aside £14,928 (up £2085)
for depreciation and £13,205 (down
£1795) for taxation, there was little
change in net earnings at £24,437, equal
to 11.2 p.c. on average capital employed
as against 17.5, 14.4, 10 and 7.9 p.c. back
to 1945. But the £94,249 of fresh capital
gathered during the year —10s. was called
on the 190,729 contribs., making them
paid to 15s. each —didn’t get much of a
chance to contribute to net earnings. So
maintenance of the 10 p.c. div., which will
call for about £34,000 for the current
term, may not prove beyond reach.
The new share-money, together with
an additional £51,376 from the bank and
the allowance for depreciation, etc., went
into premises (up £59,907), plant (up
£50,697), stocks (up £51,231) and book-
debts (up £3341):
1939. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital* £72,847 £135,071 £165,138 £259,387
Overdraft .. 13,368 64,744
Sundry
creditors .. 10,117 19,748 22,442 20,771
Tax reserve .. 21,600 15,000 15,747
Premises . . 27,600 68,558 126,650 186,557
Plant . . 24,690 40,618 80,238 130,935
Stock .. 25,520 47,696 54,825 106,050
Debtors . . 6,358 18,205 28,630 31,971
Cash, etc. .. 60 45,247 15 15
* Includes calls paid in advance —£8185, 1948;
£7107, 1949.
Despite the outlay on fixed assets, the
more-or-less liquid surplus was £4123
stronger at £36,783.
Since the close of accounts the con-
tribs. have been asked for another 2s. 6d.
And, to ensure adequate supplies of the
right kind of yarns, the co, has bought
a controlling interest 154,740 f.-p.
6s. 6d. shares —in Sydney Woollen Mills
Pty., which was a subsidiary of John
Vicars and Co., and which turns out
blankets, rugs and tweeds and does con-
tract carbonising as well. The price was
£92,844 (£42,554 in excess of par value),
satisfied by the issue of 46,422 f.-p. £1
shares at a premium of 100 p.c. The
board considers the deal a “very satis-
factory investment,” but doesn’t say what
it is likely to turn in by way of dividends.
Demand, now probably at or near its
peak, continues at a high level for the
co.’s products, but the relentless pressure
of rising costs and possibility of sharper
competition from imports later on obscure
the long-term outlook for the dividend.
At 41s. 6d. (465. a year ago) the f.-p.
shares return 4.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. On the same basis, the contribs.
(now paid to 17s. 6d.) at 38s. 3d. would
yield 5 p.c. when fully paid. Including
uncalled capital and scrip issued to
Sydney Woollen Mills, net asset backing
is 235. 9d. a share.
Caesar Fabrics, Ltd. (Sydney)
To gain status as a public co., side-step
punitive private-co. taxation and qualify
for Stock Exchange listing, this 24-year-
old importer of cotton fabrics, etc., pub-
licly offered 53,620 new £1 shares at a
premium of 12s. 6d. each in February
last. The issue, which was oversubscribed,
lifted paid capital to £225,000; and the
share premiums (£30,997 net), which were
added to reserves, make the 10 p.c. div.
worth 6.1 p.c. on that lot. Most of the
£171,380 of old capital was, and still is,
held by the Walton and Bakirgian
families of Sydney and Manchester (Eng.)
respectively, and their friends.
It was F. S. Walton, who had been
long associated with the cotton-spinning
and -weaving Bakirgians, who set this
now-prosperous business on its feet when
he arrived from Manchester in 1924, He
died last year; his son Charles, who has
grown up in the business, is now chairman
and managing-director of the undertak-
ing.
Chief profit-earners are three lines of
Caesar cotton-fabric products, made by
the Bakirgians, and for which the co. is
sole importer and distributor in Aus-
tralia. A small woollen and worsted
weaving plant, installed during the 1930’5,
and two small but growing subsidiaries
in Adelaide—Caesar Fabrics (S.A.), Pty,
and Herald Clothing Co., Ltd, —as well
as other imported cotton piece-goods con-
tribute to the pool, too.
First published accounts for the year
to June 30 last disclose a healthy financial
position and compare favorably with
prospectus estimates of earnings. Turn-
over increased by £116,000-odd, despite
more competitive trading and higher
prices following withdrawal of subsidies,
etc,. After allowing £19,294 (up £6194)
for taxation and £1275 for depreciation,
the parent’s profit was £39,770 (up £8500),
equal to 21.5 p.c. on average capital
employed as against 18.2 p.c. for the
previous term. No director’s fees were
paid. For the 10 yeajs to June
30, 1948, average net earnings, after
allowing for ordinary and super tax on a
public-co. basis, was £33,474. Of last
year’s profit, a 10 p.c. div. (4 p.c. of it
tax-free) took £18,478, and £17,739 was
used to pay private-co. tax on undistri-
buted profits to end June, 1947. After
payment of the div., reserves total
£69,435, of which £23,601 (£4668 more
than the prospectus estimate) is labelled
tax-free.
The new capital and share premiums,
together with an extra £56,793 from
sundry creditors, went mainly into stocks
(up £101,057), which appear at or under
cost, and book-debts (up £16,731):
1948 * 1949.
Paid capital £171,380 £226,000
Loans 56,957 48,441
Sundry creditors .. .; 102,941 159,734
Tax provision .. .. 25,600 19,500
Freehold 11,458 11,458
Plant 11,472 12,730
Stocks 268,403 869,460
Debtors, etc. . . . . 136,108 152,839
Cash, etc 5,124 19,023
Intangibles . . .. .. 710 729
* Prospectus figures.
Cash, etc., increased by £13,899 and
£8516 was snipped off loans from the old
group of shareholders. When the books
closed more-or-less liquids exceeded out-
side liabilities, including tax provision, by
£323,647.
With costs advancing and gross margins
receding, profits have become mainly a
function of turnover, which has held well
since the close of accounts. However,
trading is becoming increasingly com-
petitive, and the price of imported cotton
and other fabrics will rise following
recent currency devaluations. Allowing
for all this, the market prices the pound
shares at 325., giving a return of 6.2 p.c.
on a 10 p.c. div. basis, or a satisfactory
5 p.c. should the distribution drop to
8 p.c. Net tangible cover is 265. 3d.
Sargents, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1940.. 21,319 8 p.c. = 23,895 45,625
1941.. 21,579 6 „ „ 17,920 3,659 49,284
1942.. 16,221 5i „ „ 16,427 49,078
1943.. 18,342 6 „ „ 17,921 421 49,499
1944.. 19,942 6 „ „ 17,921 2,021 51,520
1945.. 18,121 6 „ „ 17,921 200 51,720
1946.. 18,077 6 „ „ 17,921 156 51,876
1947.. 17,952 6 „ „ 17,921 .31 51,907
From tax provision, £4513 .. .. 56,420
1948.. 10,036 6 p.c. = 17,921 48,535
1949.. 17,986 6 „ „ 17,921 64 48,599
It is difficult to say exactly what the
future holds for this old-established cater-
ing and refreshment business, which has
a factory and 39 branches in and around
Sydney. Declared net earnings averaged
£34,384 for the four years to end June,
J 939, and £18,945 for the eight years
lifter that. The figure shrunk to £10,036
for 1948, but rose to £17,985 last term,
when the improvement was more pro-
nounced than the first column of the table
suggests —no allowance was made for de-
preciation in 1948, whereas £12,488 was
set aside for the purpose last term. The
£17,985 of profit was 6 p.c. on capital,
compared with 3.3, 6,6, 6.1, 6.6, 6.1 and
4.5 p.c. back to 1942.
The trouble is on the catering side, the


THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Offices GEORGS AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
/
r
r4L
*•>
/
m
"SwtchWhS
UUtCv
v**
*/“■*•"•
WHISKY
fds
BIACMTE
SCOTCH WHISKY
Distilled and Blended in Scotland
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagb
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £60,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£9,500,000.
M. 0. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGUEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman ; Alfred S, White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone: B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States,
jf*
iato
pP rOC
&
Mino
s tan
Cap
v oM r
SafAT
fa
litV
QU a
fia®
of
pa
tie
aaa
leax
ipi a
VirS
«ita
eia*
cstf
(2
vs
*=**r
'-4
}
t
Vi A
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE’S FAVOIBED CIGARETTE
7330-10.48
one on which the business grew
up and thrived under the Sar-
gents, who specialised in pies
and other fare in the low-price
group. Here competition has
become much sharper of recent
years, which means that menu
charges have to be kept down
to hold business, while the
growth in wage and other costs,
labor difficulties, the 40-hour
week and interruption of electric-
power supply have piled up over-
head and increased the percent-
age of waste. The last-mentioned
is an important factor governing
net earnings in this class of busi-
ness, and its elimination calls
for experienced and able man-
agement.
Last term the co. closed seven
of its tea-rooms and restaurants
and let most of the space that
became available. With one ex-
ception, the shop portions of the
premises concerned have con-
tinued to trade on a retail basis.
If this trend continues, some of
the co.’s seven freehold proper-
ties in Darlinghurst, connected
with the manufacturing side,
might become surplus to require-
ments. But with things as they
are, it is doubtful whether much
further improvement need be
looked for in net earnings.
The co, went to its bankers
for an extra £27,471 last term,
raising the overdraft to £144,784.
The money was used to wipe
out the mortgage (£8000), reduce
the amount coming to sundry
creditors by £6200 and add £6304
to stocks and £9396 to debtors’
balances;
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital. £298,682 £298,682 £298,682
Overdraft .. 91,106 117,313 144,784
Mortgages ~ 8,500 8,000
Creditors* .. 77,271 59,741 53,541
Freeholds .. 307,475 308,132 308,182
Leaseholds .. 5,091 4,351 4,366
Plant, etc... 81,593 94,273 91,867
Stocks .. 27,703 39,465 45,769
Shares other
cos. .. 79,105 82,855 82,954
Debtors .. 16,263 11,543 20,939
Cash .. 675 613 540
* Includes provision for taxation.
When the books closed outside
liabilities exceeded more-or-less
liquids, including shareholdings,
by £48,113, an improvement of
£2465 over the twelvemonth.
At 225. 6d. the pound shares
return 5.3 p.c. so long as the 6
p.c. div. continues, or 4.4 p.c.
on a 5 p.c. distribution. The
cover is 235. 3d, in net tangibles.
Aberfoyle Tin, N.L. (Tas.)
This well-developed and well-
equipped mine, on the slopes of
Ben Lomond (Tas.), is one of
Australia’s leading producers of
tin and wolfram concentrates.
The present co., which now has
a paid capital of £62,500, was
formed in 1926, but didn’t reach
the permanent production stage
until 1932. Since then dividends
totalling £334,441 have been paid
from mine profits aggregating
£451,455. Shareholders have
much for which to thank the late
W. E. Hitchcock, who, first as
consultant and then as superin-
tendent and director, guided de-
velopment along sound lines.
The ore is in fissure veins
varying in width from under an
inch to about 7ft., and the
wolfram and casserite occur as
coarse crystals with little inter-
growth or association with other
metallic minerals present. The
plant consists of several inter-
locking sections, from crushing
to the making of three grades of
concentrates, with separation,
flotation and water recovery.
Treatment figures and financial
results for the last three years
compare as follows:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Ore milled, tons.. 27,829 28,002 25,862
Concentrates;
Tin, tons .. 440.56 460.07 424.90
Wolfram, tons 67.44 83.43 90.44
Flue dust, tons 29.28 27.39 82.49
Total value, £..147,180 211,666 213,846
Total costs, £ ..107,068 135,240 164,208
Mining profit, £ 40,112 76,426 49,638
Dividend, p.c. .. 50 95 75
„ amount, £ 81,250 59,876 46,875
Other income lifted last year’s
profit from all sources to £50,926
(down £26,464). The drop was
due to lower output of tin con-
centrates, which are sold locally
at controlled prices. The figure
rose from £3BO per ton of metal
in Dec., 1946, to £460 in Sept.,
1947, and £555 in June, 1948,
and has remained steady since.
The wolfram concentrates (not
controlled) were sold by open
tender, and realised £55,067 (up
£11,341), prices ranging from
£398 18s. to £587 11s, per ton of
concentrate, compared with
£567 ss. to £6Ol 18s. for the
previous year.
Ore reserves at June 30 were
put at 110,832 tons proved and
34,647 tons probable. The main
shaft has been sunk to a depth
of 904 ft., or 37ft. below No. 8
level. Crosscuts are now being
driven to open up No. 7 and No.
8 levels, and the drill has located
the main ore-bodies at depths
which will permit opening up
two more new levels. No. 9 and
No. 10, thus assuring the life of
the mine for irfany years yet.
The drill has also located new
veins carrying tin and wolfram
west of the main ore-bodies.
Mine and plant stand in the
books at £120,051, stores
£21,446, Government securities,
cash and debtors £70,551. In-
cluding the final div., current
liabilities total £61,362.
The market, which likes the
way the mine is shaping, lifted
its bid for the f.-p. ss, shares
from 255. at the end of August
to 31s. last weekend.
Zircon Rutile, Ltd.
Latest accounts of this Mel-
bourne-controlled co., which is
mining and treating beach-sands
at Byron Bay (N.S.W.) for
zircon, rutile, etc., disclose,
among other things, the injustice
of the Federal Government’s
Socialist policy of forcing mining
cos. to charge a premium on the
issue of new shares. In Sept.,
1948, the co. put out 50,000 new
10s. shares at a premium (fixed
by officialdom) of 9s. 6d. each.
The money was wanted to
finance installation of more
plant, etc. The scrip then stood
around 265. in the market; it
recently changed hands at 11s., a
discount of Bs. 6d. on the issue-
price in Sept., 1948.
The co. maintains a needless
statistical blackout over its pro-
duction, treatment and recovery
figures and costs. After charg-
ing £14,551 (up £3477) for de-
preciation, profit for the year to
June 30 last was £18,190, com-
pared with £32,951 for the pre-
vious year, and the div. dropped
from 15 p.c. to 5 p.c,, no final
being paid. Collapse of the
American market for the co.’s
products during the second half
of the term was the trouble.
Since the outlook is anything but
bright, producers have got to-
gether and there is talk of re-
stricting output. The co. is also
negotiating w’ i t h National
Titanium Pigments, Ltd.,
London, concerning the possi-
bility of jointly making
“chemical products” in Australia.
Co.’s future earning-power and
dividend prospects are obscure,
A 10 p.c. div, on the present
£125,000 of capital would call
for £467 less profit than was
claimed last term.
When the books closed there
were cash and debtors’ balances,
etc., totalling £28,073 to meet
current liabilities of £24,127.
Stocks and stores stood at
£38,606, plant at £99,398, free-
hold, etc., £38,024 and leases
£30,000.
Recent development work at
Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie (W.A.)
has resulted in some encourag-
ing disclosures. A crosscut on
No, 1 (intermediate) level of
the Iron Duke advanced
lift in ore assaying 22.5dwt.
o.ver a width of 33in., and on
No. 2 level driving exposed 88ft.
of lode assaying B,4dwt. for a
width of 51in. In the North
Boulder shaft the north drive on
No. 3 level went forward 18ft.
in ore assaying 7.3dwt. over
51 in., and 15ft. of winzing dis-
closed material averaging
14.1dwt. over 60in. On No. 9
level in the Oroya South a
winze was sunk 58ft. on lode
material assaying 15.8dwt. over
48in. Until recently the co.
was handling ore worth
435. a ton with gold at
£lO 15s. 3d. an ounce for
a surplus on mining account of
Bs. Today the same ore would
be worth 625. and the surplus
(with costs unaltered) 275. a ton.
A substantial part of the in-
creased surplus, however, will be
gobbled by further lifts in wage
and other costs.
* * * •
Sterling Gold, N.L., an Ade-
laide concern, hopes that its
future will be brighter than its
past, having just taken a three-
year option over the Corunna
leases, 54 miles s.-w. of Marble
Bar on the far-away Pilbara field
(W.A.). The price, if the option
is exercised, is £35,000, plus
50,000 f.-p. shares in the co. The
outcrop of the reef is reported
to be from 2ft. to 30ft. wide,
119 tons of picked stuff from
preliminary development work
has been crushed for 3360 z.
gold, and there is said to be
another 15,000 tons, averaging
14dwt, exposed. Treatment
costs are estimated at 70s. a ton.
Nothing is said about water,
always a troublesome item in
this area, or whether the ore
carries antimony as well as gold,
A lot more work needs to be
done before any reliable estimate
of this prospect can be made.
Announcement of the option
lifted the co.’s 2s. 6d. shares from
6d, to Is. 3d. in the market.


fds
PLAN YOUR ESTATE
for your family’s
PROTECTION
In these days of changing values and high death
duties you will ensure better protection for your
dependents by:
1. Careful planning before your Will is drawn.
2. Providing for the careful management of
your Estate in the best interests of your
dependents, after your guiding hand is with-
drawn.
You are invited to
call and discuss your
Estate problems with
a senior officer of
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
The Company has wide
experience in the manage-
ment of Estates of many
different kinds and sizes.
Because its service is per-
petual it may be depended
upon to provide alert,
efficient management in
the best interests of your
dependents, when required.
If unable to call, write
for a copy of the booklet,
“Your Executor and
T rustee”, that describes
the services offered by the
Company, and its charges.
i
DIRECTORS;
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR. M.L.C.
(Chairman) ;
E. R. KNOX:
ALLEN C. LEWIS:
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.
D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN:
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. AHMYTAGE, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
exceed £68,000.000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAM WORTH and ORANGE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Inflation Stimulated
The fact that wool prices have
risen in Australia, and through-
out the sterling area, since de-
valuation against the dollar
occurred is evidence of the addi-
tional latitude that this financial
manoeuvre gives Socialist Gov-
ernments to go on their ex-
travagant and reckless way.
The balloon has been given an-
other pUmping-up. The price of
nearly all Australian raw-
material exports has risen since
devaluation, and though, in the
case of wool, this rise has not
been high enough to offset the
depreciation of our currency in
terms of dollars, it has been
sufficient to represent a sub-
stantial addition to the cheques
of woolgrowers, and came at a
time when their income was on
a decline—and the “national in-
come” with it.
The point being made here is
that export values in Australia
now look like being inflated con-
siderably, subject to any reces-
sion overseas, and demands by
many types of workers for
higher wages may now be
conceded, especially if the
position is judged merely on
the basis of present capacity of
industry to pay. Taxation
revenue of the Federal Govern-
ment will get a further in-
flationary fillip, and the show-
ing of phony prosperity which
has meant so much politically to
the Chifley Government may con-
tinue for some time longer. But
the value of savings will keep
on falling as the effect of higher
wages and other costs enters
into the cost of living, and the
financial and industrial security
of the people will be further
undermined. That is if we judge
the economic future according to
the political past; arid to do so
seems perfectly justifiable.
Britain has a number of real
excuses for her present dollar
plight, though the blight of
Socialism is paramount and in-
excusable; in Australia’s case,
even if the dollar problem is to
an extent difficult to solve in the
best of circumstances, our in-
flationary spiral and production
depression are mainly the result
of a lack of responsible govern-
ment. The Socialist Federal
Government and its State satel-
lites, controlled as they are by
militant unions, have made little
or no effort to maintain produc-
tivity and stability within our
industrial economy-
Britain has increased its out-
put per man employed by com-
parison with pre-war figures. In
Australia output per man has
fallen, in spite of “full employ-
ment” and the demand that
exists for essential raw materials
and manufactures. We have not
Britain’s vulnerable dependence
on overseas sources for food
and raw materials, and we have
had large favorable balances on
international trading account,
even though these balances are
more the result of higher prices
than greater volume of exports.
Britain has had a large adverse
gap in its overseas trading.
Australia has been very lucky
—so far. Seasons have been
kind and export prices have been
favorable enough to allow the
country to coast along in a con-
dition of plentiful money, “full
employment” and inadequate
production. The 40-hour week
mocks us, and the “social-
security” schemes are costing
much more than the service they
render; but a real day of reckon-
ing continues to be deferred.
and the devaluation of sterling
by Britain, which enabled Mr,
Chifley to play a passive role in
the British Gommonwealth’s
advance to further inflation,
may defer that financial reckon-
ing-day even a little longer.
But it has not deferred the
real problem —that of produc-
tion. Australia is in a produc-
tion depression that is a dis-
grace to the whole community.
It gives the lie to our seeming
financial prosperity. And while
that depression in production
“Thanks so much; I cant think how I can ever repay
your!"
continues there will be little
except menace in the devalua-
tion of the Australian pound
that automatically occurred
when sterling was .devalued
against the dollar. What we re-
quire most of all is stability and
productivity.
N.Z. Forest Products
Business is gaining momentum
for N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.,
Maoriland’s largest co. (with
45,000 Australians among its
70,000-odd shareholders), and
total net earnings have run into
six figures for the first time (year
ended March 31), with £75,161
net profit from manufacturing
and investment and £41,301 from
forests, against £56,419 and
£30,824 in 1948, which was the
previous - best. Accumulated
profits, which started from
scratch six years ago, when the
co. began to get its head above
water, are now a wad of
£388,539, but there’s no talk of
divs, yet.
Reserves and profits are now
chalked up at £482,000. Capital
is £6,203,283. Tax provision of
£141,334, against £85,870 in the
previous term, mirrors larger
operations. Development of
plant and trade outlets will have
to be pushed ahead with all
speed to keep pace with growth
of 188,000 acres of forests under
a 20-year cycle from planting to
milling. Volume of standing
timber is up by an estimated"
300 million log super.-feet in the
twelvemonth —that’s approach-
ing a million a day, and a mild
winter, with higher rainfall,
since accounts were closed
should give the trees an extra,
' push along before the measur-
ing-rod is put over them next
time.
On the manufacturing side
the co. has its full share of the
headaches which are the common
lot of M.L. concerns today-
shortages of transport, coal and
electric power, and manpower
poblems—but, barring the un-
foreseen, the forecast is for fairer
weather on the industrial front.
Taxes are a sore point, as M.L.’s
Treasury, which takes no risks,
gobbles up a big share of the
profits while investors wait and
hope that some day they’ll get
something back. Australia and
John Bull are best export pros-
pects at the moment, but the lop-
sided trans-Tasman exchange
doesn’t help.
Investments and mortgage
assets of £1,168,813, at balanc-
ing-date, were mainly proceeds
of last year’s £li million A\ p.c.
debenture issue raised through
Melbourne underwriters. These
funds are partly earning their
keep until they’re needed to
finance the works. An exchange-
fluctuation reserve of £58,585
had its birth when the co.’s over-
seas assets were revalued after
M. pound rose to par with
sterling in August, 1948.
Looking ahead, the co. calcu-
lates it will have to part up with
a round £4 million in the next
two or three years to pay for a
pulp-mill, with a capacity of
25,000 tons yearly, build a gang-
sawmill and carry out other
large-scale expansion. Its in-
terim deadline for operating
N. first chemical woodpulp
mill, to cost £H million, is 1952.
There’s a tough uphill grind,
with better going at the top, if
plans work out.
National Oil Pty.
Petrol production at Glen
Davis. (N.S.W.) for the year to
December 31 last was 2,775,879
gallons, compared with 4,063,628
gallons in 1947, 3,696,981 gal-
lons in 1946, and 1,979,511
gallons in 1945. National Oil
Pty. has been working on the
Newnes-Capertee oil-shale de-
posits for about 12 years, but
the aim of 10,000,000 gallons of
petrol a year so far has not been
reached. There has been trouble
both on the mining side and
with the retorts.
Last year the crude oil ex-
tracted was 25 p.c. less than for
the previous year at 5,757,146
gallons, but the N. S, Wales
Auditor-General says he has
been informed that “this out-
put was consistent with the
quantity and quality of the shale
available for treatment.” Petrol
extraction from the crude oil
fell to 48.3 p.c., compared with
52 p.c. in 1947 and 48 p.c. in
1946.
Sales are made from the co.’s
bulk-storage tanks at Newnes
Junction, to which petrol is
pumped 32 miles of pipe-
line from Glen Davis. The
price paid by the principal petrol
distributors is the full
market value of similar-
grade petrol, and, varies
from month to month,
being the average cost of
imported petrol landed in
Sydney. Last year 3,087,472
gallons was sold, compared
with 4,048,540 gallons in
1947. Although returns rose
2.64 d. a gallon, costs in-
creased on the smaller turn-
over, and the year’s loss was
£66,939 greater at £492,045
—by far the heaviest in the
cq.’s history.
Development was considered
to have ended by December,
1941, and losses, etc., up to that
date were capitalised at £397,896.
Trading losses since then have
been as follows:
Dec., * Loss.
1942 .. .. £263,123 -
1943 .. .. 296,981
1944 .. .. 303,788
1945 .. .. 342,055
1946 .. .. 401,830
1947 .. .. 425,106
1948 .. .. 492,045
Losses to Dec. 31, 1948, £2,524,928.
The total deficiency of
£2,922,824 is equal to 68 p.c. of
the share and loan capital.
At last balance-day the share
and loan capital was £4,291,397


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSONS
risuiXTVAN
man
utie
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd,
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
<«TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
memorise easE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
fronds
SERRATED-EDGE
GRILL KNIVES
Is
1
&
Sg
*
Boxes of Six
Grill knives, 49/6
Table, 55/ Dessert, 48/6
A serrated edge, that enables you to
cut steaks or chops with ease, is featured on these new
English grill knives. Short blade of knife gives greater
cutting efficiency. Also at Proud’s and featuring the
serrated edge, are matching table and dessert knives.
Blades, stainless Sheffield; handles, white xyonlite.
Serrated edge can be sharpened like ordinary knife.
Write to Proud’s Ltd., Box 1502, G.P.0., Sydney
fs
-
7
B
y
In
tins of 20
3/-
There are times which call for
something better than the merely
very good, and demand
the unquestionable best. Where
cigarettes are concerned the man
of taste is guided by the
words “Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London 99 , From
this famous address comes fine
tobacco perfection to satisfy all those
occasions when only the best will do.
-
W-W;
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
MIS MAJESTY THE KING
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Bensonmj Hedges
M jT- ■ LTD
OLD BOND STREET , LONDON
—£325,000 proprietary share
capital, £3,800,397 loaned by the
Commonwealth Government,
and £166,000 loaned by the N. S.
Wales Government. The Com-
monwealth advance includes
£325,229 in respect of the Fish
River water-supply. Capital ex-
penditure other than develop-
ment account is in the books at
£1,804,758, after deducting
£643,388 provided for deprecia-
tion, Last year’s allowance was
£120,978, when the interest bill
was £156,350.
Negotiations are proceeding
with the holders of the share
capital (originally George Davis
and colleagues) for the transfer
of the scrip to the Common-
wealth Government for £225,000.
Masonite Corporation
With the triplicated section of
its plant in production during the
second half of the year Masonite
appeared set for record earnings
during the term to June 30 last.
But floods at Raymond Terrace
and in the Maitland district
(N.S.W.) upset supplies of raw
materials from the timber areas
and production generally; then
came the coal strike after a pro-
longed period of industrial-
power rationing. The coal strike
will hit the current year’s figures
most.
The co also felt the full effect
of the January, 1948, reduction
in its selling prices last year, to-
gether with the increased costs
that have been general in all in-
dustry. In August, after the
close of the June 30 accounts,
tfie Prices Commissioner
authorised a surcharge of Is, 6d.
a hundred square feet on the
co.’s products to partly meet
these extra costs. But, including
this surcharge, 70 p.c. of the pro-
duction is still sold at from 25
p.c. to 31 p.c. under pre-war
prices, which, as the co. suggests,
must be something of a record
in Australian industrial experi-
ence.
Net profit for the year to June
30, after providing £40,366 for
taxation (£57,870 last year), and
£37,721 for depreciation
(£36,021), was £27,969 lower at
£65,496. Of this, £49,810 was
allocated to ord. shareholders
and £22,686 to deferreds. Ords.
received their 12? p.c. div, as
usual, with about £7OOO to spare.
The 2s. 6d. deferred shares were
paid 4s. 6d. a share dividend.
These shares were mostly
allotted in the beginning to the
U.S. parent concern and pro-
moters.
In spite of the loss of almost
seven weeks’ production since the
beginning of the present financial
year as a result of the coal strike,
the board looks for “highly
satisfactory results” during 1949-
50. The triplicated plant, given
a fair run, should show its worth
to shareholders. Assets appear
to be conservatively valued, as
stated by the board.
The £1 ords. at 565., cum
Is. 6d. div. and bonus, yield
£4 12s. per cent, on the basis of
a 12£ p.c. distribution.
Lowe’s Bonus Issue
In December last the public
had its first chance to acquire
shares in Lowe’s, Ltd., the 50-
year-old Sydney retailer of
men’s wear. Having split its
shares into ss. units, the board
offered 150,000 new ones to out-
siders at 17s. 6d. each (represent-
ing a premium of 250 p.c.). Thus
£37,500 extra capital brought
with it £93,750 in premiums for
addition to the co.’s reserves.
About £60,000 of this money
was needed for the establishment
of new stores, the prospectus
said. But five months later the
chairman remarked that the
present time seems “a little
premature” for expansion,
though the board is still watch-
ing for opportunities.
Last week’s announcement of
a three-for-five bonus issue to all
shareholders, old and new, won’t
affect the co.’s liquid position;
but it means that most of last
December’s premium money will
be capitalised. Nearly three-
quarters of this bonus scrip will
go to the old shareholders.
However, new members are
also in a happy position where
their ss. shares, with rights, are
worth more than 245, on the
market —a rise of 6s. 6d, on
their outlay 10 months ago.
The capitalisation was justified
by Lowe’s exceptionally strong
reserve position. Even now,
when £85,377 is taken out of
reserves and added to capital,
every pound of capital will be
backed by an equal amount of
reserves. The new capital figure
of £227,675 will require £45,535
for a 20 p.c. dividend in a full
year. That compares with last
year’s net profit of £60,206, but
with only £25,727 in the previous
term, when the business was
subject to stiffer taxation on a
“private” basis.
In the present term, profit-
margins have been cut by the
State Government on several
lines, costs are still rising and
there was the upset to trade
caused by the coal strike. But
according to figures of the Retail
Traders’ Association in Sydney,
sales of men’s wear had been
exceptionally good until the
strike, and even then they lost
less ground than most other
lines. To some extent the share-
market already discounts the
future prospect of a 20 p.c.
dividend on the higher capital.
The current price is about 15s.
ex-rights, compared with 18s. be-
fore the bonus issue, and the
yield would now be 6.6 p.c. on
the old dividend. There appears
to be about £BO,OOO of tax-paid
reserves available for distribu-
tion.
Socialism andf “Taihoa”
Consumers and businessmen in
Maoriland who ask what is
wrong with their Labor-Socialist
economy have the answer in in-
flation, taxation, controls, pam-
pered industries, lower output
per hour and a crop of
economic maladjustments.
Socialists point proudly to post-
war wage and income peaks as
signs of affluence, but they for-
get, or deliberately ignore, the
shrinkage in the pound.
Even on the export front,
which is the key to M.L. pros-
perity, the picture has dark
patches. Butter shipments at
135,600 tons last year were only
a shade above the 131,100 tons
sent away in the first war year,
and cheese was down heavily to
75,600 tons, against 101,700 tons
in 1940. Mutton shipped was
only 66,200 tons, against 77,700
tons; beef was down, and only
lamb showed a rise in the meat
group. Wool soared, and high
values all round lulled Maori-
landers into a feeling that all
was well, but the truth is that
N.Z, primary industries haven’t
been forging ahead in the good
old pre-war spirit; they’ve been
battling to hold their own against
mounting costs and loss of
workers drawn to the towns.
Many N.Z. farmers now have
the Maori’s “Taihoa” (don’t-
care) attitude towards pleas for
more production, as a third of
total incomes goes to the Trea-
sury,
When it’s all boiled down,
Socialist extravagance and crush-
ing taxes are M.L.’s biggest drags
on enterprise, because they kill
incentive, rob the efficient and
energetic of hard-earned rewards
and are a sop to the inefficient.
Frank Wilson, president of
M.L.’s Associated Chambers of
Commerce, says the process must
fail because it runs counter to
the sound, well-tried principle of
payment by results.
The National Bank’s recent
monthly summary reminds us
that last year wool and wheat
(with flour) earned more than
60 p.c. of our total income from
exports, whereas in 1938-39 the
proportion was only 40 p.c.
Thus, while “in the domestic
field our eggs are being spread
among more and more baskets,
in the export field we are entrust-
ing them to fewer and fewer.”
This, as the bank says, is a “huge
national gamble.”
What appears to have been happen-
ing over the last two or three years
is that living standards have been
maintained, to an increasing degree,
by imports instead of domestic pro-
duction.
A fair summing-up, and most
timely now that export prices are
weakening. But will it be
heeded in the right quarters?


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Government House ballroom was con-
verted into a temporary concert-hall for
the recital given by the English duo
singers, Victoria Anderson and Viola
Morris, in aid of the Vera Scantlebury
Brown Memorial Appeal. The dais from
which they sang, both frocked in pale-
grey chiffon, was flanked by silver cande-
labra and spring flowers. The foyer was
handsomely decked with greenery and
banks of colorful cinerarias interspersed
with bowls of iris, lilies and spring foliage.
The vice-regal pair sat with Lady Angliss,
chairman of the appeal committee, Mrs.
Aubrey Gibson, hon. sec. of the appeal,
and Mrs. Garnet Carroll, president of the
entertainments committee. Lady Her-
ring’s gown was in royal blue and silver
lame, with a long-sleeved jacket to match.
Over a plum-toned crepe romaine gown
Lady Angliss wore a full-length pastel-
blue wool coat. Mrs. Carroll’s lilac
faille gown had broad bands of silver-
grey satin on the bouffant skirt and
decollete bodice; a matching tulle stole
covered her shoulders. Mrs. Aubrey
Gibson’s gown of cyclamen sa..n had a
sweeping train. Mrs. Phillip Dare’s
midnight-blue moire taffeta dinner-gown
had a ballerina neckline and long-fitting
sleeves ; the pencil-slim skirt was finished
with a knee-length over-skirt of the same
material. Mrs. Arthur Coles covered her
floral gown with a white Arctic-fox cape.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan’s powder-blue crepe
gown was trimmed with crystal beads.
Over a stunning gown of white brocade,
with jewelled panels set into the wide
skirt, Pat Christie wore a ruffled jacket
of pale-beige net, finished with a hood. A
flowing Medici cape of. turquoise-blue
wool was worn by Elsa Briese over a
wide-skirted gown of ice-blue, silver-
striped faille. Mrs. Ron Decker’s frock
was in burgundy and silver lame.
At the party she gave to introduce
wives of new city councillors to the wives
of the rest of the City Fathers, the Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney, wore with
a matching jacket a Christian Dior model
of black crepe which had floating panels ;
her shell-pink grosgrain hat flew black
ospreys. Her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Alex.
Hay, assisted in a navy bolero suit, navy-
and-white-spotted blouse and large rough
straw hat. Mrs. F. P, Selleck’s black
faille frock was matched by a small
ribbon-trimmed hat; Mrs. Bernard Evans
wore a navy ensemble and matching hat.
With her black frock Mrs. J. W. Ferguson
wore a shallow cloche hat of white
plumage with black-tipped wings, set at
each side. Mrs. P. L. Coleman’s wide-
brimmed straw hat had a tulle edge and
a brown bird set under one side of the
brim. The Wales lady added a hat in
matching straw to her navy French
gaberdine suit.
Rain cleared in time for the At Home
given in the garden of Bishopscourt by
Archbishop and Mrs. Booth and the
Council of the Diocese in honor of
members of Synod, The Coadjutor of
the Diocese, the Rt. Rev. J. D. McKie,
assisted the Archbishop and Mrs. Booth
receive the many guests, while Joan,
Margaret and Pat Booth helped with the
entertaining. Mrs. Booth’s smart navy
jacket-dress had a tiny white collar, and
her navy straw hat, veiled in navy, had a
white edge to the brim. The Navy, Army
and Air Force, and legal and university
circles, were represented. The Lieut.-
Governor Sir Edmund Herring was
attended by Col. H, A. V. Wilkinson, and
Mrs. T, Hollway accompanied the
Premier. With Sir Charles Lowe, Chan-
cellor of the University, was Lady Lowe ;
Mrs* Pizey accompanied her Rear-
Admiral husband.
The committee of the Y.W.C.A. is hop-
ing that the Fair in the Lower Town Hall
on October 14 will raise at least £lOOO.
This will have an international air. The
Czechoslovakians, headed by Mrs. N.
Wostry, will have crystal, gloves and
other articles for sale. A hat bar is
being organised by the Australian-
American Association under the direc-
tion of Mrs. A. J. Davidson, and Mrs.
Jim Fitzgerald will run an “Everything
for Baby” stall. The Dutch community
will provide the food services for the
day. At night, after the Fair has ended,
there will be an international dance, and
various nationals will perform the dances
of their particular country. Tickets for
the dance are 3s. 6d. and may be obtained
at the Y.W.C.A., 56 Russell-street.
Scots Church was the setting for the
wedding of Clare Jackulyn, youngest
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John Robb,
of North Balwyn and Toora, and Douglas
Norman, only son of Mr. and Mrs. H.
J. Gartside, of Dingley. The bride’s
trained gown of ivory satin, which had
long sleeves and a swathed bodice, was
worn under a* full-length Limerick lace
veil, held in place with a halo of orange-
blossoms. She carried orchids and lily-
of-the-valley. Sister of the bride, Mrs.
J. G. Hicks, was matron-of-honor, and
Margaret Gartside was bridesmaid. Their
gowns of off-white French ninon were
worn over underskirts of pale-apricot
crepe, and their matching bonnets were
finished with a wimple and trimmed with
haloes of flowers. Ray Millward was
best man and Douglas Mcßae groomsman.
Reception was held at the Hotel Windsor.
Margaret Cox is one of the energetic
ticket-secretaries for the dance to be held
next Friday night at the Grosvenor. This
is in aid of the Women’s Hospital, the
Toorak Junior Auxiliary of which she
is a member. Margaret, an old St.
Catherine’s girl, recently returned from
a holiday in England. For relaxation
from her job at Navy Office she plays
golf, and she is a lover of the opera and
the ballet. Photo from Antoine and
John Duncan Studios.
The Caulfield Guineas was ushered in
with a Guineas Eve dance at Grosvenor,
Toorak, organised by the Toorak
Auxiliary for the Aged Blind. Mrs.
Arthur Laver, president of the auxiliary,
was in lilac faille, the bouffant skirt
mounted on underskirts of pink and grey
tulle. Vice-president Mrs. Norman Gad-
sen’s gown of black crepe had a swathed
bodice trimmed with black sequins and
beads. Ticket-secretary Joan Breheny
added a green taffeta stole to her royal-
blue gown. Under a brown ermine cape
Mrs. E. Lessor wore powder-blue crepes.
A sash of multicolored taffeta lit up
MrSj Graham Tucker’s black gown.
Dorothy Laver’s pale-beige tulle gown
had a fichu neckline. Midnight-blue
taffeta, topped by a fine white Shetland
lace stole, was the choice of Mrs.
Andrew Sloane, Old-gold satin with a
draped shoulder-line was worn by Mrs.
James Buchanan. Evelyn Pitt was in
brown tulle. Mrs. Tom Gill contrasted
her black-and-grey check taffeta with
cyclamen silk gloves. Lace mittens
matched Mrs. John Warlow’s garnet-red
velvet, and electric-blue taffeta was worn
by Mrs. F. J. Wallace. Mrs. Stanley
Smith, hon. organiser for the aged-blind
central committee, had the bodice of her
turquoise-blue satin gown splashed with
silver sequins. Sage-green tulle cascaded
into the bouffant skirt worn by Mrs.
Gordon Challingsworth.
Although the weather for the Caulfield
Guineas was all that could be desired,
few women came out in silk ensembles.
Beige, navy and green were the favorite
colors. Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of
the V.A.T.C, chairman, effected tasteful
contrast to her navy emsemble with a
posy of yellow tulips and a small yellow
straw hat. A moss-green suit with a
brown hat and accessories was worn by
Mrs. Ken McLean, wife of the club’s
vice-chairman. Mrs. Alec Hunter’s beige
ensemble carried a small brown hat
finished with beige chiffon. Lady Snow’s
navy jacket - suit gained distinction
from its accompanying white French-
embroidered blouse ; her small white off-
the-face hat was trimmed with navy veil-
ing. Mrs. Ron Cameron’s ink-blue suit
was worn with a white grosgrain hat;
her daughter Kecra added a tiny white
straw pillbox hat to her navy coat-frock.
Mrs. Norman Shepherd’s large navy hat
was upturned in front and lined with
white. A lime-green angora frock and
sables were worn by Mrs. L. R. Buxton.
Kathleen Dee’s bottle-green tailored
frock had for company a beige hat with a
rust-red rose for trimming. Mrs. Frank
Spurway’s jacket-suit of grey silk was
patterned with green, grey and gold coin-
spots. Mrs. A. Silk’s suit was in dove-
grey, her wide-brimmed straw hat with
its wide bands of matching velvet ribbon
spraying out over the crown to fasten
under the brim, also in grey.
From Sydney
The Governor, Lieut.-General North-
cott, and Miss Northcott, have issued in-
vitations for a dance at Government
House on October 27, The guests are
bidden for nine o’clock.
Personally, this writer wasn’t going to
mention it, because she thought that Mr.
Robert Morley had snatched it from the
rack in the back hall as he ran off to
catch the race-tram. But as every news-
paper has practically given a leader to
the affair, let it be known that the hat
worn by Mr. Morley to Randwick races
last Monday was of beige or grey cotton
rain-proofed gaberdine and it was of a
saucy pork-pie design. It was rather
becoming, too, and was right in step with
the season’s trend for linen, pique and
organdie hats as displayed by the girls
throughout the meeting.
Mrs. Ernest Watt turned out in a wide
and curving brimmed hat of deep-tan
linen. This was the right complement to
her pale-green linen suit. And here and
now let it be said that linen was the
winning fabric at the spring meeting.
Striking effect was won from a mixed
black-and-white outfit worn by Mrs.
Alfred Morgan. As usual, Mrs. Herbert
Douglass reached the honors class in the
fashion display. Last Thursday her mist-
grey crepes had the skirt draped to the
side, and her small grey hat, direct from
Paris, wore at its right side two bursts
of grey heron feathers.
Skirts are slim again. Even if pleated,
restraint is the word. Many depend for
a suggestion of fullness on floating panels,
or side drapings. Some, indeed, were
so fitting that after two wearings they
will probably, on or off, outline their
owners’ undulations. The new wide
shepherdess collar was effective on Mrs.
Rex Money’s frock of navy faille, and
Mrs. Pierre Mann’s large white organdie
hat and pastel frocking were cool per-
fection on a hot, clear day. Mrs,
Max Murray’s turban in Roman-
striped silks was admired. And
in spite of the unknowns who flooded
the track by turning on the sprinklers
at Randwick, hoping, it would appear,
to spoil “Ladies” Day, though that does
seem strong action even if you didn’t
approve the new fashions, Thursday’s
meeting was a brilliant success.
This girl from the West—Perth is her
home-town —is Janet Hebbard, owner of
a throbbing, ’cello-like contralto voice.
Janet won the contralto championship
in the recent Eisteddfod. She plucked
the same section award in 1947 ; she also
won the Queen Victoria Club’s vocal
scholarship for 1948, Her teacher is
Gertrude Hutton, who trained another
Australian contralto, Lorna Sydney, now
singing in opera throughout Europe.
Janet gives a recital in the Macquarie
Auditorium on October 15. Peter Pan
photo.
Important event on the waterfront last
week was the changeover in the com-
mand of the Australian Fleet. On Tues-
day the flag of Rear-Admiral H. B. Farn-
comb was struck on H.M.A.S. Sydney,
and the flag of Rear-Admiral J. A. S.
Eccles, his successor as Flag-Officer of
the Australian Fleet, was run up. Rear-
Admiral H. B. Farncomb now goes off
to an important job in Washington.
The decoration committee of the Black
and White Ball really put its best work
into the decoration of the official table
and its background. Silver-branched
candlesticks were at each end of the
table, which was trailed with white lilac
and azaleas. Towards the middle of the
table stood two massive silver-branched
candlesticks of Georgian embossed design.
These stood a little apart, the distance
being bridged by garlands of white lilac.
At the back of the table was a sideboard
set with gleaming decanters (their use
merely ornamental); at the back of that,
against the wall, rose tall, slender green
branches. At each end of the side-
board were set a cluster of bright round
lights, rather like the lamp-posts of
Martin-place in pre-war days.
In the foyer of the Trocadero were set
large jars of azaleas, and gleaming from
a surround of white artificial flowers
above the “conversation” seat was a
white statue. The seat was covered with
carnation-pink repp which ended in a
straight valance of black and white.
Bright round lamps flanked the stage, the
base of which was black and white. A
nice touch on the official table was the
red rose or camellia set ready for the
lapel of each official male. Before the
ball really got under way the thing to
do was to visit the table, where under
the glow of an alabaster lamp the prizes
were spread: cases of Scotch, dress
materials, model hats.
About 1500 dancers came to this ball,
now a yearly race-week fixture for the
benefit of the Industrial Blind Institute.
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, the president, and
committee members received the 40 official
guests. Her frock was lovely and un-
usual. It was of black faille, made fitting
to the knees, then flaring in fullness
(almost reminiscent of ’Nineties styles).
The bodice was strapless. With
this was worn a stole of white corded
silk, in the one-sided sleeve style. Mrs.
Robert Morley came along to judge the
frocks with Mrs. Anthony Hordern and
Madame del Balzo, wife of the Minister
for Italy. The frock worn by the last-
named was of soft white satin, the skirt
falling in restrained fullness. Mrs. Keith
Martin and Mrs. Hector Livingstone were
the prizewinners for loveliest frocks worn
by matrons, and Elaine Blanchard and
Peg Williams were the prizewinners
among the girls. Mrs. Roy Buckland, in
white satins patterned in diamente, Mrs.
Alexis Albert, Mrs. Dick Allen, Mrs.
Ralph Thompson, Mrs. C. M. Guiney,
Mrs. Lennox Bode were others noted in
a bewildering assemblage of pretty
women in sleek plumage.
The neon signs about the city paled
and were wan compared with the bright
glitter of cocktail-parties which have
ringed race week. Early in the week
there was the true-blue welcome handed
out by the N.S.W. Command of the
R.A.N. at H.M.A.S. Rushcutter in honor
of the visiting Maoriland Squadron.
Rear-Admiral G. D, Moore and Mrs.
Moore received the guests, Rear-Admiral
Eccles and Mrs, Eccles were there. Cap-
tain Hammersley-Johnston, commander
of the Enzed Squadron, was accompanied
by his wife, who had arrived from Enzed
in the Wanganella.
The late-afternoon party given by Cap-
tain Hammersley-Johnston and officers of
the visiting squadron in H.M.N.Z.S.
Bellona was the big round-off to Thurs-
day. On Wednesday the Australian Club
allowed the ladies across its doorstep.
This affair was as usual hung about with
the best spring flowers. The ladies wore
the frocks they would have worn to
Randwick meeting, which was post-
poned because of sprinklers. Some, of
course, wore late-afternoon frocks and
hats special for the occasion. At the
end of the party each lady was given a
lace-edged handkerchief. Perhaps next
year it will be valentines. Then, of course,
there was Friday’s big effort at the Royal
Sydney Golf Club, and the cheery coming
and going at the Pickwick.
Canada’s new High Commissioner,
Major-General L. R. LaFleche, with his
wife and two of their five children, is ex-
pected to arrive in Sydney on Saturday on
the Lakemba. They succeed the Ken
Greenes in Canberra. General LaFleche
has been a personality in Canadian public
life for many years—as a soldier, as a
public servant, as a war-time political
figure, and, since 1945, as a senior diplo-
mat. Before his Australian appointment
he was Ambassador to Greece. The two
daughters coming with the LaFleches are
Denise (17) and Jean (15).
On October 19 Hyde Park will burgeon
not like the forest of Arden with poems,
but with paintings. One hundred and
twenty will be attached to large imn-
able screens in the corner of the park
that faces Elizabeth-street. They are the
work of a group of art students (mosth
ex-servicemen and -women), and they
have been selected by Bill Dobell, \> al-
lace Thornton, Hal Missingham and
Douglas Dundas. The show, the first ot
its kind in Sydney, has been organised
by ex-serviceman art student Charles
Doutney. It will be opened by
Mayor O’Dea,


Regd.
LAMPS
WATCH FOR—
‘HAPPY’’ MANTLES
THIS ENTIRELY NEW AND PATENTED
FEATURE OF GENUINE “TILLEY” MANTLES
WILL SURPRISE AND DELIGHT YOU.
NO MORE FIDDLING
WHEN FITTING !!
SUPPLIES ARE NOW ON THE WAY TO
AUSTRALIA FROM OUR FACTORY.
ASK YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR. IF IN ANY
DIFFICULTY, WRITE TO OUR AUSTRALIAN
REPRESENTATIVES
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE. C.l.
df
REGD.
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
SUNDRY SHOWS
TWO GREEKS.
The combination in one night
at the National Theatre, Mel-
bourne, of two plays from vastly
removed historic and geographic
backgrounds like the “Antigone”
of Sophocles and “The Belar
Tree” of John Sandford was a
truly remarkable example of the
unity of human experience.
“Antigone” deals with CEdipus,
who incurred the displeasure of
the gods by marrying his own
mother and, having discovered
his mistake, put out his own
eyes. But the vengeance of the
gods continues. Antigone, his
daughter, accompanies her father
into exile after his disgrace and
abdication from the throne of
Thebes. Her brothers Eteocles
and Polynices kill one another
in the war against Thebes, and
Antigone is forbidden by Creon,
the regent, to bury Polynices,
She disobeys him and is buried
alive, Creon’s son, betrothed to
Antigone, kills himself and
Creon’s wife takes poison.
Teiresias, the blind prophet,
foretells the ruin of everyone
who sins against the dictates of
the gods, which are very like the
dictates of Greek society, whose
horror of incest amounted to an
obsession. Nobody doubts the
gods, so nobody asks any ques-
tions.
Nobody asks any questions in
the Australian fantasy of John
Sandford. Mr, Sandford’s play,
written as verse drama and very
well written, concerns the Aus-
tralian phenomenon known col-
loquially as a combo.
The combo in this case is
Gregory, a sheepfarmer, whose
devotion to his halfcaste son is
bitterly resented by his sister
but is accepted by his wife, a
sad, submissive, broken creature.
Gregory can no more give him-
self a good conscience about the
abo. boy than CEdipus could
about his mother-wife Jocasta.
The boy can’t feel secure in the
white-man’s world, and, although
he loves his father, he refuses
to acknowledge him and reverts
to the native belief that he is a
reincarnation of his tribal an-
cestor who occupies a belar-tree
outside the homestead.
The father reverts to drink, the
wife to self-pity and the sister to
railing, while the sundowner.
Phonograph Jack, acts as a
mocking chorus, though without
the clear idea of what is hap-
pening that distinguishes the
chorus in the Greek play. If he
had, Mr. Sandford’s play would
have been more lucid. Every-
body is as powerless against
society’s dictates as the Greeks
are against the dictates of the
gods, and the hatred, despair and
horribleness engendered are of
the same order and degree as in
the Greek-drama.
Both were extraordinarily well
played. Ken Lawrence, as
Creon, was physically suited to
the kingly role, being apparently
seven feet high, though he wasn’t
always emotionally convincing ;
but the Antigone of Patricia
Kennedy was outstanding. John
Sandford, as the chorus, was as
much at home in Sophoclean
robes as he was as the tortured
sheep-farmer of his own play.
Claude Thomas was an impres-
sive prophet, and there was a
living quality about the acting
of Bruce Anderson, as son of
Creon. The language of
Sophocles and Mr. Sandford’s
verse were equally well delivered.
This year’s spring exhibition
of the Victorian Artists’ Society
contains the usual local buddings
and graftings on imported stock,
mainly of Picasso, but it also
includes more than the usual
quantity of garnerings from
Nature. Most sensitive of these
are the “Looking Down Lons-
dale-street” and “Spring Sun-
shine” of Lesley Sinclair. Mary
McLeish has a fresh-looking
“Early Morning Lennox-
street,” painted against the light,
a difficult position. The canvas
not being as brightly lighted as
the subject, the artist tends to
let up on her shadows, which
probably explains why Miss Mc-
Leish’s landscape looks a trifle
ghostlike.
Studio painting hasn’t this pit-
fall to contend with, and there
are three excellent still-lifes by
Ken Thomson, and M. McChes-
ney Mathews’s “Autumn Bunch”
has quality about it. Reshid
Bey’s “Cut Lunch” is the most
appetising bit of painting he’s
done, and W. E. Millane’s
“Across the Lignum” is a good
sketch. James Quinn, R.O.L,
R.P., has given Miss Gwen
Woods no air to breathe in, but
veteran Tom Carter’s “Chopping
Block,” with the axe and the
stump and a couple of doves,
has a traditional charm of sub-
ject-matter, Alan Sumner
weighs in with a bit of child art
called “Farmsheds, Keilor,” and
Joy McDonald has an “Abstract
Still Life,” whatever that means.
The sculpture is, as usual, par-
ticularly undistinguished. W. G.
Hill’s head of “Aileen” has some
relation to its subject, but Ber-
nard Boles’s “Mother and
Ch i 1 d,” worried out o f
Norfolk pine, has only a rela-
tion to the current fashion for
depicting human beings looking
as if they had never had a square
meal.
* * * *
Some tiny sketches of the
South of France, particularly
No. 14, are the best things
among some Rupert Bunny land-
scapes at Sydney Macquarie
Galleries. In these, because of
their minuteness, there is a con-
centration of what Bunny could
paint well (foliage and the close
effects of sunlight) and an
absence of what he painted in-
efficiently (distance and the in-
finite depth of light). In the
larger landscapes, as in the sunlit
house and grass of “Cassis,”
there is sometimes a patch of
richness, but this is lost in the
flatness of the composition as a
whole. The general effect is not,
as in a Gruner, of a luminous
image of the landscape, in which
the technique disappears in its
own delicacy, but of the repeti-
tion of a formula in paint:
smeary grey paint, sticky paint
like plasticine, or, at best, an
attractive greenish-blue pastel
shade. The backgrounds of two
flowerpieces repeat the grey
smears of the sky formula. A
group of monotypes are notable
for their rich color and for the
woman’s leg in “Allegory,”
straight as a drainpipe and 7ft.
long.
# * * *
Although Arnold Shore, guide-
lecturer at the National Gallery,
Melbourne, applies paint with a
harsh brush in his landscape and
still life at Melbourne Book Club
Gallery, there is a foundation
of sound observation behind it,
and his effects are often spark-
ling. “Sunrise, Jeparit,” has
light in it, and there is freshness
in his “Summer Flower Piece.”
* * * *
In the catalogue to George
Whinnen’s show of paintings at
the Athenaeum, Melbourne, Con-
stable is quoted as saying
“There is room enough for a
natural painter.” Quite so ; but
what is a natural painter? If
Constable had been asked for
an example of natural painting
he would no doubt have pointed
to his own pictures. So, evi-
dently, would Mr. Whinnen,
who is a teacher of art from
Adelaide. He has been painting
in the same stamping-ground as
Albert Namatjira, around the
Flinders Ranges, and in one of
his large landscapes entitled
“The Crimson Hill, Parachilna
Gorge,” there is a mountain
with a fantastic red top which
at first suggests some aberra-
tion of light peculiar to The
Centre, especially as the same
phenomenon appears in several
other of his pictures. Actually
the blood-red color is a crop of
crimson-flowering wild hops. It
is as much a part of nature as
the sky, the trees or the distant
ranges, but it doesn’t look as
natural as it should. Whinnen
gets nearer to Constable’s ideal
in some small studies of cherry
blossom in the Adelaide ranges
and in “Trial Hill, Pewsey
Vale,” which gives a nice effect
of distance.
i** * *
Otto Klemperer piloted the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
through an exacting programme
—Strauss’s “Death and Trans-
figuration” and Bruckner’s 7th
Symphony—with the same un-
obtrusive mastery that character-
ised his first concert. Again he
dispensed with the scores—no
mean feat in the case of the long
rather too-long Bruckner
work.
Witold Malcuzynski (or
sounds to that effect) was the
soloist in the Chopin Concerto
No. 2 in F Minor, This last
pupil of Paderewski is not only
one of the world’s great players
of the shorter works of Chopin,
but also a very versatile inter-
preter of more masculine com-
posers—as witness his delinea-
tion of Beethoven’s “Appassion-
ata” Sonata. The violent emo-
tional conflicts of the third
movement which start with the
electric succession of sixths were
handled with superb control. His
Bach was also as to the manner
born, the chromatic modula-
tions of the Fantasy being suffi-
ciently individualistic for it to
escape the mathematical.
* * *
It is on record that when
Caruso sang in the famous sextet
in “Lucia di Lammermoor” at
the Metropolitan, New York, a
policeman, thinking a riot had
broken out in the theatre,
grabbed his night-stick and
pushed through the doors only
to discover an audience raptur-
ously demanding an encore. A
Melbourne policeman might
have made the same mistake at
the first night at His Majesty’s
of the same opera. In this case
a much-improved Rina Mariosa
was the principal cause of the
uproar. The lovely, pure line
of her flexible soprano wound
like a bright thread through the
complicated texture of the sextet
just as it did through the cele-
brated Mad Scene.
* * * *
John Farnsworth Hall’s racy
interpretation, in Brisbane, of
George Dyson’s “Canterbury
Pilgrims” caught all the good
humor and color of Chaucer’s
original. The choir was out-
standing in the difficult “Ship-
man” passage; and memorable
solo passages were May Jordan’s
lovely “There Was Also a Nun,”
and the singing of visitors
Ronald Dowd and Raymond
Beatty in “L’Envoi” to the
work. The Queensland State
and Municipal Choir obviously
enjoyed this too-rare combina-
tion of their forces with the
orchestra, and should delay no
longer in presenting perform-
ances of the great requiems that
so far have been the property of
the southern capitals.
* * * *
The latest ballet season of the
National Theatre opened grace-
fully at Melbourne Princess with
the traditional “Les Sylphides”
and closed magnificently with the
equally traditional Polovtsian
dances from “Prince Igor.”-
The corps de ballet showed im-
provement; the voluptuous
scherzos of the Cossack soldiers
could scarcely have been done
better ; and the dancing of Leslie
Sexton was a sort of feminine
soprano in the chorus of male
baritones and bassos.
In these excursions the ballet
was sailing seas already charted.
In between, two local choreo-
graphers embarked on uncharted
waters. In “The Listeners,” Miss
Joanne Priest, a South Aus-
tralian, tried to set Walter de la
Mare’s poem in motion to the
music of a string quartet of
Dohnanyi, and Kenneth Rowell
provided the physical back-
ground. A moonlit door opens
into a room hung with memories
of the former loves of its owner,
who is torn between the mother
of his child and his nostalgic
feelings. The dream atmosphere
was well conveyed, but there was
not much point about the danc-
ing.
What happened in “Egypt,”
Miss Jean Alexander’s ballet to
the Luigini music beloved of
Tivoli entrepreneurs, could hardly
be called dancing at all. A study
class for traffic policemen could
hardly be less inspiring, and a
John Hop on point duty is cer-
tanly more graceful than were
Miss Alexander’s priests, hunts-
men, dancing-girls, princesses,
bird-headed gods and Pharaohs.
Miss Alexander has spent a life-
time of research into her
subject, but all she came
back with was the preva-
lent convention that ancient
Egyptians were human sema-
phore-beacons. The ballet was
sumptuously mounted and must
have cost a lot of money. James
Penberthy conducted his big
orchestra with distinction.


MRBARKER dsops in
By LOHN FOUNTAN
THE Headmaster heard the clamor of
Brother Barker’s aged tourer and
pulled back the curtains in time to
glimpse Brother Barker’s white
beard, an aggressive spade digging
through the red dust. His companion
was more indistinct —a crouched blur
gripping a hat.
“Well, here they are,” the Headmaster
said, a trifle grimly. His wife made no
reply, her quick fingers busy with stitch-
ing.
j T was still light. Over on the other
* side of the willow-fringed canal the
school-hall was outlined against an ochre-
flushed sky. There was a taste of dust
in the air, a fresh scent from sprinkled
lawns, a grateful stillness after the heat
of the day. A Sabbath evening hush
hung over the two buildings, the old and
the new. The New Building was severe
and institutional, as a Government archi-
tect had designed, it, with sensible dormi-
tories and lavatories. The Old Building,
mellow red brick set in green lawns, was
colonial history in two stories, with huge
rooms and stuffed kangaroos, stained-
glass angels suspended over the circling
stairs and a portrait of the grazier-knight
who had once owned it frowning in court
dress under a silver row of cups and
shields—trophies for cricket, football,
tennis and swimming, and also prizes for
fat lambs, finely-bred Berkshire pigs and
generous Jersey cows.
Opposite the Old Building was the
ornamental lake where royalty had
boated in the spacious days before tne
place became an agricultural high-school;
and a fine red drive rolled royally round
it, past the stone residence with its trellis
of grape-vines and up to the wrought-
iron gates where, quite abruptly, it be-
came a country road, potholed and
haunted by white old gums, with a forest
of spindly eucalypt-suckers pressing in
darkly from either side.
Brother Barker braved the potholes
one Sunday a month to take non-
denominational church-service in the
school-hall. Brother Barker was a
member of an obscure sect which was
so obscure that it was generally believed
that he was the only member extant.
But he had unexpectedly produced a
young man from Sydney who had
preached in town already. The Head-
master had heard reports of him as a
“powerful speaker.”
BROTHER BARKER’S tourer clat-
tered over the little bridge, sending
the waterhens crashing in terror through
the dry cumbungi in the canal. He
pulled up under the willows opposite the
canal. In the strip of paddock behind
the dairy, dainty dark-muzzled Jersey
calves, suddenly stung with the joyous
frenzy of life, bucked and galloped and
cavorted. Brother Barker wagged his
white beard at them, pointing them out
to the young man from the city, while
they waited for the teacher on duty.
From the residence window the Head-
master perceived a flutter of white —one
of the maids walking with leisurely un-
dulations from the kitchen across to the
pig-cart. She twisted her small dark
head back, ogling the senior boys stand-
ing on the verandah of the New Building.
The Headmaster frowned: maids were a
problem, with all the explosive mascu-
linity of a boys’ boarding-school. Then
there was this business of Neville.
Thompson, the Deputy Headmaster, had
told him that he had found Neville Watts,
a fifth-year prefect, talking to one of the
maids upstairs in the dormitory. Well, he
would have a word with Master Neville.
The Pleadmaster was a big, bald, brown
man with wide shoulders. His strenuous
ambitions for the school meant days spent
in the sun and the rain, and this weather-
ing showed on his face, large-featured,
serious and brown. A high brown fore-
head shone over shrewd grey eyes set
in wrinkles, a long blunt nose and a
strong chin. He contorted his face as
though he was staring into the sun and
rubbed his neck thoughtfully—a strongly
muscled neck, sown with wiry grey and
brown hairs and burnt deep-brown above
the white round-shouldered collar.
“You know,” the Headmaster said
suddenly. “I don’t like it. These evan-
gelical fellows, coming out here, stirring
the boys up. Too much hellfire.”
His wife raised her eyebrows.
“Brother Barker is a nice
old man,” she protested,
“Nice? H-mm. Yes. A
volcano, though. An extinct
one, fortunately.”
“He does mumble”
“In any case, it isn’t
Brother Barker I’m worried
about so much as this young
fellow—the hot-gospeller from Sydney.
He’s what they call a powerful speaker.”
His wife giggled suddenly, as even
headmasters’ wives who can rear
families and entertain Ministers of Edu-
cation and charm parents, being feminine,
have a right to do sometimes. “You
know, I believe you’re jealous!”
“Jealous?”
“Yes. You thought they wouldn’t
come and then you could have taken
the service yourself.”
“Pooh!”
“Oh, yes,” his wife insisted. “I know.
Some good rousing hymns and then a
nice little sermon, a few words about
Christian virtues and a good many about
method, and not leaving all the work till
the end of the term, and taking time by
the forelock. Oh, it’s a terrible thing
to be an orator!”
“There’s only one orator in this house,”
said the Headmaster. “And she’s terrible.
Well, I must be going. Coming?”
“Wait till I get my hat.”
OPPOSITE the library the teaching staff
sprawled in lordly leisure, in open-
necked shirts and grey trousers. The
Headmaster contemplated them with
pleasure. They were,
for the most part,
capable, sports-lov-
ing young men, fit-
ting into the pattern
of the school. Mr.
Thompson, a sombre
figure in a dark suit,
detached himself from the group on the
lawn and walked across to meet them.
Mr. Thompson was not unlike a turkey,
with his rounded shoulders and his care-
ful gait and his lean neck popping rhyth-
mically from a starched blue collar, the
Headmaster thought; not, of course, a
turkey gobbler, with proud red wattles,
but a turkey hen, modestly crossing a road.
Mr. Thompson was at once soft and
saturnine, arrogant and humble. He
had a dark, soft face with a receding chin
which, however carefully he shaved it,
was always a dark blue,' a leaning neck,
and a soft, confidential voice which had
earned him the nickname of “Pal.” His
soft brown eyes lit up respectfully as he
inquired after the Headmaster’s wife’s
health, smoothing his blue-black hair with
a soft white hand.
They paused. Out of the corner of
his eye the Headmaster could see young
Fisher, of First Year, sneaking round
the corner of the building with a jar of
bardi grubs under his arms. Young
Fisher was not settling down; he was
escaping the realities of work and the
rough contacts of communal living in
fishing and solitary tramps through the
sucker forest. There was no harm in
that, in moderation. But the Headmaster
determined to have a word with Carrick,
the entomology teacher, about Fisher.
Something might be done to canalise his
interests —get him collecting wogs, beetles
and wasps and moths . . .
Mr. Thompson jerked his blue-black
head towards the group on the verandah
and smiled faintly: “Shall I chase these
fellows over the canal?”
The Headmaster looked at them. The
young good looks of Neville stood out
from the brown and freckled and burnt
red faces, but a single glance included
them all —all fourth and fifth years; and
two prefects.
“No!” he said sharply. Would the
fellow never learn? A school was like
an army, in some ways, and chivvying
n.c.os. in front of privates was no way
to run an army.
‘ ‘ D ETTER go over, I suppose,” Stan
' said. Stan was short for his sixteen
years, broad-shouldered, with, a cheerful
ruddy face. He dug Neville in the ribs
with a friendly elbow. “Coming, Nev?”
Neville was a dark, rather Mediterra-
nean-looking youth, with a prefect’s badge
on the lapel of his smart grey suit. Under
a dark bar of eyebrows his dark-brown
eyes were anxiously watching the dwind-
How a Revivalist Visited
a Boys' Boarding-school
and What He Revived
ling figures of the Headmaster and his
wife and Mr. Thompson.
“Eh?” Neville came back to the im-
mediate present with a start. He flashed
his white smile. “I was just watching
that crawling bastard,” he said. “You
know, he caught me talking to Gloria
upstairs yesterday.”
“Yair?” Stan, Joe, Dusty Miller,
Bluey, all crowded around him,
“What were y’ doing?”
“What’d he say?”
“What do you think he was doing—
in broad daylight, next to Pal’s room?
Seducing her?” Stan was fond of the
word “seduce.”
“By cripes, I wouldn’t mind being in
that,” Dusty Miller said, with sixteen-
year-old bravado.
Neville smiled with the superior know-
ledge of seventeen. “Nothing. I was
just talking to her. Then old Pal came
sneaking along in his rubber soles and
told me to go downstairs —and I’d hear
more of it.”
“Think he’ll tell the Boss?”
“’Course he will!”
“You want to look out, Nev,” Stan
warned hi m seri-
ously. “If Pal gets
on your trail —he’ll
get you expelled.”
Neville gave him
an odd, distressed
glance. The possi-
bility of expulsion
had been fluttering in his mind like a
bagged fowl. He was full of defiance one
moment —to hell with Pal, and school
too ; and, in the next instant, confronted
with the vision of a dismal homecoming,
he felt an unmanly desire to cry.
Although that, of course, was nonsense.
He was a first-grade footballer and a
tough man.
“What’d you do if you were expelled?”
asked Dusty, morbidly inquisitive. “Y’r
old man’d go crook, 1 bet.” He guffawed.
“I’d get a job, 1 s’pose,” Neville said,
casually. “I wouldn’t go home for a
while.”
“What did you talk to her about?”
Bluey wanted to know. Talking to girls
was one of the baffling problems of life
which Bluey, even on holidays at home,
had never been able to master.
“Oh, this and that,” Neville said.
“You could go to sea,” Bluey sug-
gested.
“Aw, he was only talking to her,”
Dusty Miller said, putting a stop to flights
of fantasy. Dusty, a barrel-chested, flat-
faced youth, was not immoderately in-
terested in girls. His tastes lay more to-
wards physical violence and gang warfare.
Walking across to the school-hall, Stan
kept glancing sideways at Neville. Be-
neath Stan’s stolid exterior there was a
good deal of romanticism, and he won-
dered what Neville would do if he were
expelled. Stan, personally, favored the
Foreign Legion—he was absorbed in the
adventures of John, Michael and Digby
Geste, and found himself imagining
Neville’s dark face under a Legionnaire’s
cap, with the white folds framing a face
burned doubly dark by the scorching heat
of the desert. And how much talking,
after all, had Neville done with Gloria?
Perhaps—Stan’s light-blue eyes brightened
at the thought—perhaps Neville had gone
walking down river, down to Second
Beach, where the cars from town parked
on hot summer nights and —who knows?
—he may have kissed her, even! Stan
thought even expulsion might be worth
risking for such a delicious adventure.
THE Headmaster, standing near the
doorway of the school-hall, saw them
crossing the bridge even before Mr.
Thompson began whispering urgently in
his ear. The Headmaster drew his head
back irritably, as though he had been
stung by a fly. Mr. Thompson was go-
ing the wrong way about this' business.
But he looked at Neville sharply. A
large boarding-school was like an army,
but then, too, it was like a laboratory,
with a number of complex problems
needing patient and delicate analysis.
Youth was explosive stuff.
“There’s Miss Lincoln,” the Head-
master’s wife said, and sighed slightly.
Miss Lincoln was the housekeeper, a tall,
elderly lady with a mass of short grey
hair, rather like an inverted and talkative
mop, who loved the Headmaster’s wife
dearly. Miss Lincoln had shepherded
the maids in the hall, and stood waiting
for the Headmaster’s wife to join her.
Sailor came pedalling slowly across
the bridge, his floppy hat pulled over his
eyes, the grey curls jutting out behind, his
heavy-framed bike loaded with packages
and sugarbags—provisions from town.
Sailor lived in a humpy down river with
his two cattle-dogs, and sold his fish
direct to a few customers, hotelkeepers
and storekeepers. His splayed bare feet
moved in ponderous rhythm, setting the
big calf muscles quivering like brown
jellies. He was an odd pagan figure,
with his oaken tattooed arms and his vast
belly straining against a blue cotton sing-
let, and his long knife strapped to a broad
leather belt —a giant run to fat. The Head-
master felt a quick sympathy for the old
Norwegian sailor, rooted and sturdy in his
misanthropy, like a flooded river-gum.
Brother Barker’s beard was wagging,
demanding attention.
“We may as well go in,” the Headmaster
said, glancing at his watch. He peered
up at Brother Barker’s companion—the
young man who was a “powerful
speaker.” To all outward appearances
he was an unremarkable young man, with
a pink smooth face, no eyelashes to speak
of, and brilliantined sandy hair.
FROM his seat beside Brother Barker
on the stage the Headmaster could
see them all, the flesh-and-blood part of
his school. His wife was sitting in the
front row, in a chair, with Miss Lincoln’s
grey mop bent over her in untiring con-
fidence. At the back Mr. Thompson was
lounging, arms folded, soft brown eyes
alert for larrikins and atheists. Between
them were the rows of faces, the human
stuff he was shaping, consciously, into a
tradition for which the Headmaster had
only vague words.
But beneath the vagueness there was
a reality, plain as a haystack to the
Headmaster. He paid tribute to it every
Monday morning when he paraded the
school in front of the Old Building. That
was the sweet essence of power, the tradi-
tion he saw growing week by week, under
his hand, transcending all the other am-
bitions he had realised —the brilliant
passes in the Intermediate and Leaving
Certificate examinations, the good solid
average of academic results, the efficient
farm. On those Monday-morning par-
ades the Headmaster would talk of wider
things—of the storm of armies gathering
in Europe, perhaps—and he would use
the word “Australia” in a special way,
with a kind of mellow roll to it, so that
to the school, lined up in classes and
listening, it ceased to be an abstraction
or something talked about by politicians
on Speech Day and became a reality
enmeshed with their work and sport and
their free life in the sucker forest, and
the flat red earth around them, and the
brown river shining in the sun.
Brother Barker was on his feet, mum-
bling and rumbling, and while he talked
the Headmaster’s grey eyes ranged over
the large bare hall, the stoves on the
sides for heating in winter, ping-pong
tables, and boxing-gloves
all pulled into a far corner, and the long
honor-roll on the eastern wall. Above
the Headmaster’s bald head, and the white
head of Brother Barker, and the sandy,
brilliantined hair of the young evangelist
from Sydney, curtains hung, rather
raggedly, with the school shield em-
blazoned in blue and gold.
Dusty Miller, broad-faced and dark-
haired, was watching Brother Barker with
uncomprehending pale eyes. Dusty was
capable of maintaining this trance-like
state for hours on end. On each side
of him the wooden stool was occupied
by his satellites —sturdy youths of irregu-
lar habits, given to smoking, and break-
ing bounds, and wrecking the camps of
rivals. The Headmaster looked at them
thoughtfully: there was no great harm
in them, if they were handled firmly.
They were types of the eternal Australian
larrikin, modified by the traditions of the
school. The Headmaster, without arro-
gance, sometimes wondered what would
happen to those traditions when he had
left. Men like Thompson were incapable
of understanding them, much less carrying
them on. There would not, of course, be
anything so spectacular as a deluge, but a
gradual whittling away, a decline of tone.
Stan was leaning forward, ruddy face
serious, looking, not at the wagging beard
of Brother Barker, but at the Honor Roll.
It was improbable that Stan’s name
would ever figure there for academic


brilliance, but there was good stuff in the
lad, mixed with a strain of surliness under
the expansive good-humor. He had
wanted to drop French at the beginning
of the year—“blit I soon put a stop to
that,” the Headmaster thought. “The
boy will want to matriculate next year.”
The Headmaster’s steady grey eyes
eyes rested on Neville. He had a dash,
a sparkle. He was, in the Australian
idiom, flash. Well, the Headmaster had
no quarrel with youthful flashness —it
could be fitted in the school pattern.
The boy looked pale and worried. His
dark eyes were abnormally large under
the barred eyebrows, and the adolescent
shadow on cheeks and chin and above
the full, cleanly-cut mouth was crisp and
dark under the high electric lights.
'T' HERE was a stir at the front of the
1 hall and a general turning of heads.
Gloria came in, plump and firmly rounded
and dressed in white, her oval face pale
and her long-lashed eyes modestly
lowered. Big Maggie and Little Grace
walked on either side of her. Big Maggie,
as usual, was giggling, and there was a
voiceless whispering, quickly hushed, at
her appearance. Every boy there—every-
one above Third Year, at any rate —knew
the scandalous circumstances of Big
Maggie’s affair with the useful from the
hotel, conducted with animal candor be-
hind the maid’s quarters. Any atmos-
phere of sanctity created in the hall by
the presence of Brother Barker was, if
not dissipated, at least seriously disturbed
by the flamboyant personality of Big
Maggie.
Little Grace was slim, composed and
virginal, with a narrow pinched face. But
Neville had eyes only for Gloria as she
swam, as it were, between her incon-
gruous companions. Neville felt the hot
blood rush to his head. The Headmaster,
watching him from the stage, diagnosed
his trouble swiftly. Calf-love.
Bluey dug Stan in the ribs with a
bony elbow. “She’s a good sort, eh, that
Gloria?” Bluey was a little in love
with Gloria himself, and, whenever she
waited on his table, he insisted on the
First Year’s stacking the dirty dishes
tidily. Gloria repaid this courtesy with
extra helpings and an occasional smile.
Gloria was sitting down, tucking her
plump legs under her neat frilled skirts.
“She’s got legs like a Mullingar heifer,”
Stan said. The earthy presence of Big
Maggie, perhaps, had upset him.
Bluey was indignant. “What do you
know about girls’ legs, anyway?”
“I’ll ask Nev,” Stan said humorously.
But Neville scowled at him ferociously.
“Pal’s got his eye on you,” he said. And,
as though by accident, he ground the
heel of his shoe into Stan’s toes.
Brother barker had stopped
talking at last, and his young friend
was on his feet in a single bound. The
young man on his feet was an altogether
different person to the young man im-
mobile. His smooth pink face split in a
radiant smile, and, moving about the stage
in a succession of little bounds, he talked
vigorously in a clear practised voice.
The young man’s face was solemn now,
pink and smooth as a baby’s, and still he
talked till Neville’s head began to sing,
slightly, from absorbing so many fluent
words. Neville had a vague impression
that what he was listening to was, in some
way, brilliant and important, but the
words followed each other in such swift
ringing rhythm that only occasional
phrases lodged in his mind for more than
a second. “Brotherly love,” for instance,
and “the Love of God” and once, terribly,
“The Torments of Hell.”
The Headmaster watched him soberly.
He was a powerful speaker, no doubt
about that. The Headmaster edged his
chair a little, so that he could observe the
pink mobile face better. The young man
stopped speaking, half-turned, and said in
a pleasantly natural voice to the boy sit-
ting at the piano. “Now we’ll have a
hymn Number Seven, sonny. You know.”
He hummed lightly, “Dum-dee-dum-dum-
dee-dum ...” moving his firm white hand
in time.
At the respite, Neville felt a sudden
lightening of spirit. He looked down at
his hand and saw that it had been tightly
clenched. He glanced quickly across the
hall to where the maids were sitting, a
little feminine island, but Gloria’s small
dark head was hidden behind Maggie’s
big shoulder.
“Dum-de-dum ...” The young man
was humming, his broad face wet with
happy perspiration. They all knew the
hymn, and they sang it lustily. Neville
felt a bursting of dark despair as he
sang, throwing his head back, his mature
voice rolling and rising, like a message of
light. And so it was, he thought, indis-
tinctly. A comforting sea of noise was
around him, supporting and carrying him.
“And to crown him King ... Work
and sing ...”
There had been a time in Neville’s
blasphemous youth when he had sung
the words differently, accenting crown.
Then, it had been the-height of wit and
fashion to surreptitiously thump a boy
called King on the head—crowning him.
Neville repented of this offence and of
other, graver blasphemy. Only today,
after lunch, he had seen Pal walking
along the canal bank, and had remarked
to Stan, “There he is—Creeping Jesus
Thompson!”-
“And to crown him King ...” The
school took it up in a mighty refrain.
Neville could hear a high clear soprano
coming from the other side of the hall—
was it, he wondered, Gloria? —and behind
him Dusty Miller was roaring fervently.
“ . . . ’Neath the banner of the
Cross . . . ”
THEY marched under the banner of
the Cross, all of them, Stan and Bluey
and Neville and Big Maggie and Gloria;
even Mr. Thompson, Neville saw, with a
swift backward glance, was singing, his
blue chin shaking shapelessly. They
worked and sang until they were breath-
less, and still the strange young man drove
them, rocking up and down on his heels
and beatinghis pudgy fist. He motionedfor
silence and they were still. Big Maggie held
the note too long, and sank back in giggles.
“That reminds me,” the young man
said. He told them a funny story and they
stared at him, until Dusty Miller gave a
snorting gurgle and then they were all
engulfed in a wave of merriment, cack-
ling and screeching and guffawing with,
here and there, a drumming of heels.
They laughed and couldn’t stop.
But the young man could stop them.
He held up his pudgy hands and, once
again, they were silent.
“Now,” the young man said, smiling
happily, “I’ll teach you a new song.
Sonny,” he turned to the paralysed
youngster at the piano. “You know ‘The
Old Spinning Wheel’? Of course you do.
There’s an Old Spinning Wheel in the
Parlor —there was one in our parlor, but
we sold it for the Island Mission, didn’t
we, Brother Barker? da-da-da-da-dee
da-dee-dee-do —Excellent. You know” —
the young man wheeled around and
smiled at the Headmaster —“this laddie
will make a fine musician—the power is
in him. Now, off we go—to the tune of
‘The Old Spinning Wheel’—l would like
to go over and wander
On a hillside in Old Galilee
I would sit me down there and ponder.
“Now, all together, da-da-da-da-da-da-
da-da-dee! ”
They responded warily. Neville fell
faintly shocked. It was all very well to
bellow out ‘Marching On.’ They had
Marched Oh in the school-hall for years.
But this was new and, perhaps, irreverent.
He looked up at the Headmaster, as
though for a sign, but the Headmaster's
teak-like face was expressionless.
A few voices joined in tamely. But the
young man sang on undismayed and,
gradually, other voices gathered round
his, swelled and advanced. The young
man sang and leaped, like a musical
bouncing-ball, and his voice grew stronger
and stronger, while his uplifted white
palms drew song out of them. He was
charged with electricity, or some such
dynamic and mysterious substance, and
suddenly the hall rang to:
/ would sit me down and I’d ponder
On what Christ the Lord means to me.
"THEY sang it twice. They sang it
i again. And then, hypnotised by
sound, they continued singing until the
young man raised his hands for silence.
“And now —friends,” said the young
man in a steady voice which was, some-
how, impressively dramatic. He threw his
arms backwards suddenly and held them
there, fingers outstretched, before lower-
ing them slowly to his sides. “Friends
and brothers and children in the eyes of
God.” His pink face was calm, almost
stern, and his eyes seemed to Neville to
be brilliant pieces of china shining under
a strong electric light.
“We have had laughter and song, and
song and laughter are welcome in the
sight of God. Innocent laughter and
innocent song. But there are other kinds
of merrymaking, and God’s mercy,
infinite as it is, and passing the compre-
hension of poor sinful mortals, is just.
Have you thought of God’s mercy?
And” —his voice gathered thunder —“have
you thought of God’s just wrath?”
The young man painted a picture of
human fragility, human hopes and fears,
compared with the tremendous eternity
of God. He mentioned hell:
“There are people who say that there
is no hell. There are people who say that
hell is on this earth, and that the sinner
lives out torment in his blackened con-
science.” The young man paused, and
stared steadily into the centre of the ball.
“And —that —may —well —be. People may
be punished here, for the eternal eye is
on every one of us, and not a sparrow
falls without God’s knowledge. A man
may deny God in his heart, and commit
all manner of wickedness, and prosper..
And then one day, walking in full health
—perhaps riding like you young people
into town on a bicycle, he may be
crippled, disfigured, left in terrible pain. Or
he may live long years of mental agony,
because he has denied God in his heart.
“But” —the young man paused again,
and this time Neville thought he was star-
ing straight in his eyes. “There is an-
other hell of slow and awful fires which
burns throughout all eternity, and all the
pain which a human can imagine, the
heat of fire and the extremity of cold, and
all the filth and degradation of this world
is as nothing to the torment, and the
eternity, and the abomination of that hell.
Imagine, for instance, a great foundry,
with the molten masses of white metal
pouring slowly into their vast containers.
Imagine an iceberg, with its great peaks
rising to the sky, and seven times its
height under water. Imagine a bushfire,
such a one as has swept over these plains,
leaving acres of blackened trees, and pic-
ture for yourself one of those smoking
volcanoes that overrun towns and cities.
Then imagine a mosquito, and its tiny life.
All these things are the work of man and
nature, the lesser works of God. Then
imagine, you who have impurity in your
hearts, how much greater and more
terrible are the fires of eternity than any
bushfire, any man-made sheets of metal,
and volcanoes even, or icebergs, and how
much more tiny and insignificant man is
compared to the vengeance of God than
the tiny life of a mosquito is to the roar-
ings of a consumed city.
“But,” his voice sank gently. “There is
the love of God, which is greater even
than his vengeance. Are there any here
who are not ashamed to stand up and
bear witness to God for the sake of their
eternal souls?”
Dead silence. The young man repeated
the question, amid embarrassed shufflings.
Then, for the third time, in a cutting
voice’: “Who will stand up and be a
witness for God?”
Neville stood up. His dark eyes were
fixed and staring as though hell floated
in smoking earnest before them, and he
stood quite still for a moment while the
school stared.
The young man smiled at him, in an
encouraging, friendly way, and the red
blood flooded Neville’s cheeks. He sat
down abruptly. The young man was
about to say something, but the Head-
master cut him short, thanking him. In
a moment Brother Barker, the young
evangelist and the Headmaster had all
gone, and'an excited buzz broke out, a
general whispering and scraping.
STAN looked round for Neville, but
he had gone. Bluey was leaning over,
his bony face flushed with excitement.
“Gripes, what got into Nev?”
Stan shook his head. “Beats me.
Shush, here’s the boss, back again.”
The Headmaster stood in the front of
the hall, on floor-level. He held a sheet
of paper in his hand.
“There are a few matters here. Bounds.
From tonight the area from Sailor’s Camp
west to the back Toad is out of bounds.
There is something else. You have just
heard a very powerful speaker, an evan-
gelist. Some of you may have heard of
revivalist meetings, and the tremendous
emotional effect a powerful speaker can
have on a crowd of people. There is,”
the Headmaster paused, as though search-
ing for words, “some danger, with young
people especially, in extremes of emotion.
However . .-. ” The Headmaster was
watching the sea of faces before him,
wondering what effect, after all, that im-
passioned oration would have. He wanted
to hold them for a time, to break the
spell. “However,” he continued, “while
you can appreciate well enough the —er—
salient points in our guest’s sermon, it is
well to remember that there is a less
spectacular ideal, here, at this school.
Work, too, builds character, and if you
plan your work wisely ...” He caught
his wife’s eye and finished abruptly.
“Well, more of that later.”
The Headmaster’s wife, watching him,
felt a quick pride.
“Where did Nev go?” Bluey asked
again, outside.
Stan shook his head. “No idea. It was
a funny turn, wasn’t it?”
“Funny all right. Where you going-
down river?”
“Might as well.”
'‘THEY walked silently past the dairy
1 and piggery, shining white in the
moonlight, along past the dark bulk of the
stables, over the log bridge spanning the
back creek and through the sucker forest
towards the river.
Stan was holding back a treacherous
springing sapling to make way for Bluey
to pass when they heard a clamor through
the bushes, a rattling of stones on tin, a
furious barking of dogs and shouts.
“That’s Sailor’s Camp, isn’t it?”
“Yair. Someone must be raiding him.”
They circled round and came on the
headquarters of the raiders at the strip of
back road. It was Dusty’s gang. Dusty
was giving directions in a loud confident
voice. “Snowy, you go round the back,
and Chook, you pile up some gibbers.”
Stan burst in on this strategy.
“Why don’t you leave him alone?”
“Eh?” Dusty was astonished. His
heavy jaw dropped and stared at Stan
before saying firmly. “Mind your own
bloody business.”
Stan was very pink and angry.
“Call yourselves Australians,” he said,
in a high abnormal voice. “That’s no
way to go on. Throwing bricks on an
old man’s roof.”
Bluey was as astonished as Dusty. He
looked around him anxiously. Dusty’s
offsiders were a formidable crew.
Dusty’s amazement found relief in loud
laughter. “You’ve turned into a fine Bible-
basher,” he jeered. “You and your cobber
Nev’ll be starting a Sunday-school next.”
Blind with fury, Stan hit him, and the
next instant they were exchanging wild
flailing punches while Dusty’s gang hooted
encouragement.
“Stop that! ”
A beam of light shone out from the
trees and Mr. Thompson followed it on
rubber-soled feet.
“Whom have we here?” he asked in his
soft, gloating voice. “Ah, you. Miller.
And you ...”
His torch spun round the circle of faces.
“You heard the Headmaster tonight?
This is out of bounds. Now, clear out,
all of you. Report to me at the table to-
morrow morning.”
IN the shower-rooms, cleaning away the
i marks of battle. Dusty and Stan were
solemnly reconciled.
“I must have been a bit batty tonight,”
Stan confessed.
“Me, too,” Dusty said, soaping his
barrel-chest.
Bluey poked a wet red head round the
corner. “Heard the news?”
“Pal broke his neck?” Dusty said
hopefully.
“No.” Bluey’s face was serious and
excited. “But he caught Nev and Gloria
out at your camp. Marched ’em in half
an hour ago.”
Into the Ark.
The clean otter, I have not seen other
Than in this young man, this sailor; and
his brother,
The old sea-bear; potter about in the
lean time
Waiting on shipping to take them off in
time.
Before they grapple together and, between
them.
The white ghost of their seagoing’s
forgotten.
Knifed, in a shore-ditch for a bawd who’s
rotten
With some disease the elder can’t shake
off.
Before they come to this, there’s mate-
ship. Break off
The ties of the brothel. Let them lumber
the wharf
For a sea-bound vessel, and be seen
abroad,
Again living lives that limber thtrn for
their Lord.
It’s lucky, and good for the young man,
this land’s cloud
Is behind them. Like a giant stain, it’s
cleared
From their blue sky, the sea: a heaven
revered
By its worshippers, the sailors, in the Ark
stowed;
Fortunately, without a dove in their ship,
and faint hope
Of landfall or leaf behind the last cape.
QUEENSLAND.
JOHN BLIGHT.
Native Violets.
Even to myself now, it seems strange
I do npt want to kneel and look
closely, or touch them with my fingers,
these flowers we have come to seek.
And you follow me in your odd,
independent, obedient way.
saying nothing because there is nothing
really to say.
Yes, we have come a long way
and are finding what we hoped to find ;
and yet we do not stop and touch,
or speak. We leave them all behind
and turn and wander home again
to where the proper gardens are.
with their bright red roses...
and comment’s in a handclasp more and
more,
because we are learning to approach
things
that will not be approached at all
through look or word or touch. We’re
not talking.
We are breaking do wn a wall.
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.


The Stolen ftallion
By HILTON BARON
IT was jocularly
known as “Dinny
Doyle’s office” in
Eumaralla that
solid, roughly-
squared log that
formed the curbing
of the footbridge on
a corner of Main-
street. To the police
it was “the old
gossips’ corner,” and
they left alone the coterie of grey-bearded
cronies who foregathered there when the
wizened “chairman” took his seat —a
shiny corn-bag (kept hidden in adjacence
for the purpose) laid in cushioning folds
on the log where it abutted a telephone-
post. “Lave the ould bhoys to yarn in
pace,” Sergeant Tim Lacy instructed his
henchmen. “They’ll do no harm —the
larrikinism has died out of thim these
forty years.”
To old Dinny Doyle the corner log
was more than a place of fraternal relaxa-
tion and entertaining reminiscence—it had
a business value. There he would be
ensconced on other than stock-sale days,
and not a dealer, agent or grazier in the
district but knew where to call on his
services. “Still the best dhrover in the
district,” he proudly proclaimed, “Know
every track an’ short-cut for a hundred
miles and beyant.”
His excellence as a drover was beyond
question—the old man’s apprenticeship
had been well served amongst a school
not particular as to whose stock they
drove (whether with or without permis-
sion), whose fences they cut or whose
paddocks they “sweated” whether
engaged legally or illegally, “the mob
must go through” was the supreme com-
mandment of the long-dead men who
trained the young Denis Doyle in the
fundamentals of bushcraft.
“I knowed most of the old-time
rogues,” the old man confided to a trusted
crony. “They used to call me ‘Dinny the
boy,’ but I often think some of thim were
the boys and 1 the man. They all ended
up gettin’ caught, but niver old Dinny.”
THE age of the patriarch was indefinite
and his birthday unknown—anything
between ninety and one hundred years
was the vague local estimate. A group
of prominent citizens, anxious to enter
the veteran for the centenarian stakes and
gain for their native Eumaralla some
deserved publicity, prevailed upon the
parish priest to engage in a diligent but
fruitless search of church records.
“The only clue,” said Father
O’Shaughnessy, “comes from old Dinny
himself. T reckon I was about twenty.
Father, when Jack Robertson’s Land Act
came out, ’cos I took up a forty-acre
block out at Connemara.’ And, gentle-
men,” added his Reverence, “the Free
Selection Act became law in 1861, so you
can form your own estimate.”
The only positive development from
the efforts of this self-appointed com-
mittee was to gain for old Dinny a recog-
nised birthday—“ Make it St. Patrick’s
Day,” the priest suggested ; “ ’tis the best
ye can do.” And thereafter, annually on
March 17, the veteran was formally given
a suitable present arranged by the Society
of St. Vincent de Paul; the little ceremony
being faithfully recorded in the
Eumaralla “Advertiser” with touching
reference to the gratitude of “our nona-
genarian fellow-citizen” and
eulogistic comment on his
longevity, his sprightliness and
his retention almost un-
impaired of all his faculties.
The customary and hack-
neyed reference to “reading
without glasses,” typical of
such journalistic effusions,
had perforce to be omitted
in Dinny’s case—“though
illiterate, our old friend is unusually well-
informed on the topics of the day” stood
service in its stead.
DISCUSSION had taken a personal
and confidential turn on the corner
log this Friday afternoon —the session was
limited to Dinny, old Simon, the groom
from the Miners’ Arms, and a particular
crony—bent and shrivelled little Jimmy
O’Brien from the Yellow Waterhole, in
town for his weekly shopping and yarn-
ing excursion. The doings of one Fred
Ward were the topic of the moment, and
the floodgates of reminiscence were
opened.
“Did Thunderbolt do that job with
the coach on the Pine Ridge,” asked
Jimmy, “or was it Foley? . . . ’Twas
Mick got the blame.”
But Dinny was not in a confiding
mood. “I dunno, I dunno,” he
grunted, twisting a piece of well-chewed
leather bootlace between his stumpy
yellow teeth. With emphasis he reiter-
ated: “I dunno.”
Curtly, and with a note of pained indig-
nation as of one refused a confidence,
Jimmy shot back; “Well, you ought to
flamin’ well know—
you were with him.”
“I know I was with
him,” rejoined the
older man heatedly.
“Ward and I used
to sweat the
brumbies on the
Warrobil Mountain
when we was boys, but I v/asn’t with him
when he was bushnngm’,”
“Maybe not,” retorted Jimmy, “but y’
did a flamin’ lot of bush-telegraphin’ for
him.”
“Y’re right there, too,” old Dinny ad-
mitted, “but I want y’ to understand that
when I had a job on hand I always did
my own work on my own, and Ward
was a bit that way, too. But Johnny
Dunn an’ Gilbert an’ Gardner an’ Hall
an’ all the rest that used t’ work in
gangs, they was only fools —arskin’ t’
git caught. One tongue don’t talk ’arf
as much as two, and a damned sight less
than a mob.”
The bushy grey frieze of little Jimmy
O’Brien’s eyebrows closed to a narrow
slit as he squinted challengingly at the
speaker: “Y’ wasn’t on y’r own that
night at Slapdash Bridge,” he said.
“Wonder y’ didn’t git a bullet with the
other two. An’ what about Bray brook?
There was more than you in that business.
There was white-foreheaded colts runnin’
about Connemara for years arterwards.”
P\ INNY’s grey head nodded admission
to the soft impeachment. “I was
only lendin’ a hand when Andrews and
Throsby was shot,” he replied; “lookin’
arter me ’orses. They wanted the stuff
from the store an’ I supplied the mounts.
But it goes to show y’ the trouble a man
can git inter trying to help people what
can’t keep their mouths shut. As f’r the
doin’s with Braybrook, I ’ad to ’ave ’elp
in lookin’ arter ’im, an’ the men what
’ad their mares to ’im knew better than
to talk. What’s more, we picked our
time—Barrington, of Boolaroo, ’ad
notices in the papers for months hadver-
tising Braybrook (Imp.) t’ stand the
season an’ was loaded up with orders for
mares, an’ we knoo ’ow t’ play our cards.”
“Maybe so,” commieftted Jimmy in-
quisitively and anxious for further succu-
lent details of a carefully-held secret, “but
’ow did y’ git him away, an’ ’ow did y’
git him back? Y’ might as well let on —
it’s forty year ago, now, an’ they can’t
do nuthin’ to y’. The whole distric’
knows y’ was the leadin’ ’and in bor-
rowin’ him. Did y’ muffle ’is ’ooves, or
did y’ not?”
A wisp of a smile, half-pitying, half-
incredulous, crept over the veteran bush-
man’s features. “Muffle ’is ’ooves!” 1 he
ejaculated sarcastically. And with pro-
found contempt in the rising inflexion of
his voice; “What the ’ell would we want
to waste time mufflin’ his flamin’ ’ooves
for? To darnce the schottische? What
d’ you think he was? A
hentire, or a blasted ladies’
’ack?”
“Well, that was the tale
that got about,” replied
Jimmy in defence. He very-
one knowed that he was
stabled next to the groom’s
’ut for safe-keepin’. Y’ must
’ave sneaked him away pretty
quiet.”
Its commonsense that no ’ullooin’
went on during the proceeding,” returned
Dinny emphatically, “An’ what’s more,
Paddy, the groom, wasn’t in the swim
with us as a lot thought, an’ ’e wasn’t to
blame that we got the stallion, Paddy
couldn’t be foolin’ around in a long-
tailed coat done up like a sore finger in
the ’omestead an’ be lookin’ arter Bray-
brook at the same time. ’E ’ad the
station-brand deep on ’is rump, did
Paddy, an’ made a good waiter, but ‘e
’adn’t the guts t’ be in anythin’ crook.”
“What was Paddy doin’ in waiter’s
clothes?” asked Jimmy. “An’ ’ow did
that come into the picture?”
Deliberately, and with a note of
asperity in his tone, Dinny turned
and addressed his interrogator, “YTe
bloody hinquisitive,” he snapped, “an’
y’ seem hanxious t’ know ’ow we pulled
it ’orf. If y’ ’ad harsked all these ques-
tions fifty year ago when men was taught
to keep their mouths shut, y’d ’ave been
in fr a lot of trouble. But y’re quite
right in what y’ says. They can’t do
nuthin’ about it now, so I might as well
tell y’ an’ satisfy y’r damned
hinquisitiveness.”
Jimmy ignored the jibe and
subsided into a silence pregnant
with anticipation. The story
once begun, he listened with an
air of intense appreciation cal-
culated to preserve the flow of a
highly intriguing narrative.
Old Dinny glanced around cautiously,
as from force of habit, to guard against
uninvited listeners. “Mufflin’ his ’ooves
an’ bribin’ the groom was all ballyhoo,”
he began. “We knoo our business and
the right time to go visitin’. I took
Bunny Dawson with me—l ’ad to ’ave
someone to look arter the ? orse, an’
Bunny was just the man —never opened
’is mouth unless you spoke to ’im, an’
then shut it quick in case ’e lost too
much breath. No magpie about Bunny,
an’ used t’ campin’ on ’is own in the
scrub f’r months on end.
“It was a good sort o’ night f’r doin’
a bit o’ borrowin’ without harskin’ per-
mission—no moon, an’ just enough star-
light to let y’ see y’r way
about. Old man Barrington
was givin’ a party an’ damce
in honor of ’is daughter’s
birthday, an’ there was
coaches an’ buggies an’
sulkies an’ saddle-’orses tied
up all around the ’omestead
paddock. The ’ouse itself
was pourin’ light out of every
door an’ winder an’ buzzin’
like a ’oiler log where y’ve fell a bees’-
nest —music an’ singin’ an’ darncin’ an’
laffin’ —enough noise to drown the
creakin’ of a bullick-wagon, much less
the footsteps of a stallion.
4 4 D UNNY stayed to mind our ’orses
and keep watch in a clump of
timber where the ’omestead gate opens on
the main road agin the crossin’ of the crick,
while I worked me way ’round through the
paddicks at the back of the stables. Bray-
brook neighed and whinnied a bit, but
I calmed ’im dawn easy in spite of ’is
man-eatin’ reputation an’ slipped an
’alter round ’is neck in ’arf a jiffy. What
with the dark an’ them in the ’omestead
bein’ ’arf drunk an’ more concerned with
their merry-makin’, I ’ad him out on the
main road in fifteen minutes without any-
one bein’ the wiser,
“We took the back-lane behind the
Boolaroo Mountain, an’ a couple o’ mile
along we pulled up an’ slapped a coat o’
brown paint over ’is white forehead an’
sich markings—just in case we bumped
into someone before we got ’im into the
’ills an’ scrub.
“To take the groomin’ ’orf ’im we let ’im
have a good roll on the edge of a patch o’
swamp till he looked as wild as a brumby
stallion even old man Barrington
wouldn’t ’ave reckernised ’im. We wasn’t
takin’ ’im to be photygrarphed, but it’s
a good job looks don’t affect the git of a
hentire —’e was no show ’orse be the time
we’d done with ’im.
“Luck was with us an’ we never met
a soul ’til we came to the Crors Roads,
an’ dang me if Bill Anderson wasn’t right
up agin the road tinkerin’ around some
fires where ’e’d been doin’ a bit o’ burnin’
orf. We wasn’t frightened o’ Bill givin’
us away, but ’is missus—Maggie
Donoghue that was ’ad a waggin’
tongue. Not that she was a straight-
out informer, but you never knew what
she might let drop when she started
maggin ’. ‘Maggie the Magger,’ she was
called, an’ the nickname suited ’er to
aT.
“Bunny an’ me hung back a while
talkin’ it over an’ decided to kill two
birds with one stone —git Bill out of the
way where he’d see nuthin’ an’ pervide
a halibi f’r me at the same time. Bunny
was to stay with Braybrook an’ get ’im
away to a ’iding-place in the gorges
beyond Connemara an’ I was to go visitin’
the Andersons.
“When Bill spotted me ’e nearly fell
over ’isself harskin’ me up to the ’ouse f’r
a cup o’ tea an’ a bite to eat, that eager
’e was f’r a bit o’ company an’ a yarn.
So there I was ’til one o’clock in the
mornin’, gossipin’ with Maggie an’
listenin’ to Bill swankin’ away at the con-
certina. Be that time I reckoned they
would ’ave missed the stallion back at
Boolaroo, so I said ‘Good-night’ an’
made back to me selection at Connemara,
ready to receive me visitors in the
mornin’.
i * NJ O failin’—they
* arrived about
eleven o’clock—old
Porter, the Sub., an’
two ’ealthy - lookin’
young troopers, uni-
forms all dusty an’
their ’orses a lather
o’ sweat. Porter dis-
mounted in front of
the ’ut where I was
waitin’ on ’em an’
threw ’is reins to one of the troopers.
‘Mornin’, Doyle,’ he says, sharp an’ busi-
nesslike.
“ ‘Mornin’, Inspector,’ I says. ‘Y’r old
bay is beginnin’ to know ’is way to my
place from force of ’abit. What’s gorn
wrong this time?’
“Porter give me a bit of a glare at that
an’ snapped out: ‘Want a word with you,
Dinny. Not that I expect to get anything
out of you by mere talkin.’ An’ I 'ave
already ascertained cornin’ along the road
that y’ spent most of last night back
there at Anderson’s place. Nevertheless,’
’e goes on, ‘that does not exclude from
ray mind certain suspicions which, know-
ing y’ of old, I am naturally compelled
to entertain.’
“ ‘Y’ never want to be too suspicious,
Inspector,’ I says, chiackin’ him a bit. ‘lt’s
a nasty ’abit. But never mind—tie y’r
’orses up an’ come inside, I notice y’
always know just the right time to arrive.
Me old woman will soon ’ave the dinner
ready. It’s not much, but there’s a bit of
potater an’ pumpkin an’ some corned
beef. An’, o’ course,’ I says,
givin’ one of the young
troopers a bit of a wink, T
suppose y’ know it’s not my
own —I never kill my own.’
“’E grinned at that. ‘Y’re
clever, Dinny,’ he says, ‘but
one of these days y’ll trip
y’rself—the best of us make
mistakes, Dinny, and it’ll be
Bathurst for y’. As for
meselt, it would be no pleasure for me
to ’ave to arrest such a congenial ’ost, but
juty is juty.’
“ ‘Never let y’r juty worry y’, Inspec-
tor,’ I shoots back at ’im. ‘A bit of a
’oliday wouldn’t do me no ’arm.’
* * fV/4 E old woman served out the dinner
IVI an’ they tucked their feet under
the table. ‘Well, to get down to business,
Dinny,’ Porter said after a while, ‘last
night, as I am inclined to think y’re
well aware, the blood stallion Braybrook
disappeared from Boolaroo stables. But
even if there is an element of doubt as to
whether y’re already aware of the
fact, I am quite confident that y’ will
become aware of ’is whereabouts through
y’r own channels within the next few
days, and’
“I thought I ’ad better put a word in
edgeways here, just to up’old me own
dignity, so t’ speak, an’ give old Porter
a bit of a rub: ‘Thanks for the compler-
ment. Inspector,’ I gays, ‘but if the ’ole
p’lice force can’t find the flamin’ ’orse
with all their means o’ gettin’ hinforma-
tion, ’ow the ’ell do y’ expect poor old
Dinny Doyle t’ git a line on ’im? What
d’ y’ think X am—the Weedin' stud-
book?’
“ ‘Cut that out, Dinny,’ ’e replied,
cajolin’-like, ‘Mr. Barrington is very
much concerned about the safety of the
stallion, and, owing to the peculiarities
of the case, we are more concerned with
the recovery of the animal than with the
arrest of the thieves. Accordingly, Dinny,
I am ’ere to tell y’, fully confident that
the hinformation will go to the right
quarter, that if the stallion is returned
un'armed under reasonable conditions,
nothin’ more might be heard about this
matter. That’s fair enough, isn’t it?’
“ ‘Never trust a p’liceman or a soldier,’
my old man used t’ say, ’ayin’ ad plenty
dealin’s with sich before bein’ transported
from the Quid Sod; an’ I wasn’t givin’
Porter the charnce o’ giltin’ anythin’ on
me. So, keepin’ me poker-face an’ lookin’
him straight in the eye, I replied: Thenk
y’, agin, Inspector, but I ain’t no kun-
jerer to go pullin’ a two-thousand-guinea
hentire out of me ’at like a flamin’
guinea-pig. An’ y’ can bet y’r boots,’
I says, givin’ him a bit of sarcasm, ‘the
men what took ’im won’t go hadvertisin’
his whereabouts in the Eumaralla ‘Had-
vertiser,’ ’owever much ’elp’ (hempher-
sizin’ me words) ‘that might be to the
p’lice.’
“ ’Ave it as you like, Dinny,’ said
Porter, takin’ a swill o’ tea out of his
pannikin, ‘but remember what I’ve told
y’, verb, sap.' I could never make out
what he meant by them last words.
“Gittin’ up from his chair an’ noddin’
to the troopers ’e stalked out to the ’orses,
me follerin’ to see ’em orf. ‘We’ll be on
our way, Dinny,’ he says. ‘Thanks for the
dinner.’ An’ lookin’ me straight in the
face, he says, knowin’-like: ‘A nod is
as good as a wink to a blind man, Dinny.’
“ ‘Mebbe so,’ I replied, givin’ him the
(Continued at foot of next page)


THE distempered bow-backed horse,
pestered by the weather, snorted
indignities and stumbled towards
the outline of Flinders Peak that
lay quarantined among four blunted
pinnacles. Its rider tugged uncomfort-
ably at his clerical collar and sang:
“ Rain, rain, go away,
Come another washing day,”
and wished for the sociability of Captain
Wickham’s residence at Brisbane,
He had arrived in Sydney from Surrey
only last January, in this year of Our
Lord 1848, had sampled some excellent
Madeira on the day of arrival, and the
following month had been ordained
deacon. With this elevation had come
his appointment to the “parish” of More-
ton Bay, which, according to Wickham’s
map, seemed to take in half the continent.
In Brisbane he began “doing the rounds”
—involving one hundred and twenty-
seven miles on the back of old “Jim
Crow.”
“Rain, rain, go away.”
The rider spat, inaccurately, into
the bushes, and the sun came out. It
fingered in after-rain fashion the oak- and
the apple-tree and lit the sassafras and
palm. The rock-lily among the parasite-
fern woke into flame and the rider mar-
velled.
He gave his horse a pat, inclined his
head to dodge the low branch of the
leaning gum, and rode on without his
song, on the last stage of his three-day
journey.
AS the thin, beardless young man in
the clerical collar strode into the
empty bar. The Fiver gaped.
“An ale, please. My name’s Glennie,
and I believe you’re a Christian man.
I hope so, anyway, because I want to use
your pub for a church-service tomorrow.
And I’d like to stay here for the night.”
“Uh—yes.” The Fiver wiped his hands
on his apron, went a slight red as he
took the outstretched hand.
“The parlor should do nicely. Mr,
Leslie speaks highly of you, Mr. Horton,
and so do many others. Would you care
to take up the collection?”
The Fiver was about to demur, and
made a motion with his head to that
effect, but it was misinterpreted,
“Ob, good. Thank you. And, Mr.
Horton, you know all the people in
Drayton and close by. I’ve preceded my
herald by about a century, I’d say, so
would you also help me to tell this part
of the Darling Downs before morning
that Deacon Benjamin Glennie has
arrived and will conduct a church-service
for all people of all denominations in the
parlor of the Royal Bull’s Head at eleven
a.m. tomorrow, Sunday, the twentieth
of August?”
The Fiver gobbled at his Adam’s apple,
but said: “Yes.”
An unprecedented respect rushed over
him like a Cecil Plains whirlwind, and
much of the usual old convict gruffness
was stifled in his voice.
So on the door of the Bull’s Head,
underneath the glimmering brass knocker,
was pinned the notice that kept cus-
tomers, if not sober, at least steady, all
that day. Carts, wagons, horsemen, out-
bound, inbound, were halted and told
the news. The Fiver literally enlisted
the whole of the township.
“Who is he, Bill?”
The Fiver, pouring expertly; “Glennie.
Deacon Glennie.”
brass eye an’ gittin’ cheeky-like. ‘An’
y’ can bet y’r bottom dollar the man
what pinched Braybrook ain’t blind.’
“Away they rid ; an’ I sent my boy
Peter up on the ’ill to watch ’em down
the road. Sure enough, one of the
troopers broke orf when they were about
a mile away an’ cut into the scrub on the
ridges, so I knowed I was bein’ kept under
But I wasn’t gettin’ caught
as green as that, an’ when night come on
I was away by a bridle-track to take a bit
o’ tucker to Bunny an’ see things was in
order with Braybrook, ’Ell’s ’Ole, we
used to call the place, an’ a natural pad-
dick it was for ’iding stock—safe as
’ouses with cliffs all around an’ the
hentrance from the gorge so narrer y’
could shut it with a couple o’ sliprails.
An’ Braybrook wasn’t the first ’orse that
was ’id there, let me tell y’.
< < A BOUT a week later the mailman
/v. dropped some letters an’ the
Eumaralla ‘Hadvertiser’ at my place.
Front-page of the paper was a had. from
old man Barrington —my old woman,
what was in a convent when she was a
gal, read it out to me; A ’undred
pounds reward for the return of the
stallion Braybrook, an’ no questions
harsked. But we wasn’t ready to do busi-
ness just yit.
“Well, we kept ’im in the ’Ole for a
month an’ more; them what was in the
know bringin’ their mares to me quietly
at night, an’ me slippin’ ’em out before
daybreak to be served. What with gittin’
I the mares forward and backward an’
1 keepin’ the tucker up to Bunnv, I ’ad to
do most of my sleepin’ in the daytime
for weeks on end.
“About once a week Bunny would
show up in town, just to let ’em know
’e wasn’t missin’, an’ keep down sus-
picions—not that there was much need
for it, ’cos Bunny was too stoopid-lookin’
an’ calf-faced for anyone to think ’e ’ad
enough brains to be mixed up in pinchin’
anythin’ more’n a, billy-goat.
“But things began to git too ’ot. Every
mug-shrewdie for miles around what ’ad
some ’arf-brumby mare what ’e thought
might throw another Carbine was pullin’
me up on the road or cornin’ to the ’ouse,
droppin’ ’ints for a beginnin’ an’ finally
gettin’ desperit an’ arskin’ straight out to
’ave their old crocks served. An’ some
of ’em couldn’t be shook off, neither. So
we decided it was time to git in touch
with old man Barrington.
i * \ A E old woman done the writin’—
iVi block letters, she called it, what
couldn’t be reckernised. Old Barrington
to come on ’is Pat Malone with the cash
in gold an’ silver an’ carefully foller hin-
structions—not that we was frightened of
any ’anky-panky tricks from ’im, ’e bein’
mad hanxious to git the ’orse back; an’
when ’e passed ’is word it could allers to
taken as gorspel. But y’ can never take
risks when the cops ’as been in on a
business, an’ we wasn’t takin’ any
numbered banknotes that tide.
“When the mornin’ come I took me
perch among the rocks an’ scrub on the
Munghorn Mountain where I could keep
the Frog Rock in full view. Sure enough,
about nine o’clock, I sighted a bit of a
speck on the road a couple o’ mile away
which turned into Barrington on a fine
upstandin’ roan—l could tell ’im by ’is
big broad-rimmed ’at. ’E rode to the
foot of the Rock an’ I watched ’im reach
inter the big ’oiler log at its foot for ’is
next hinstructions an’ put the hundred
quid back in place. Then ’e mounted ’is
’orse an’ rode at a good sharp canter in
the direction o’ Black Swamp.
“When I ’ad the cash safe in me ’and
I lit a pile o’ bushes an’ bark an’ threw on
a bit o’ green stuff to make a good smoke.
Bunny lit his arnswerin’ bonfire on the
’ill be’ind the swamp an’ tied Braybrook
to a tree near the water’ole, ’ale an ’early
for old man Barrington to find. We was
both back at my place at Connemara be
dinner-time dividin’ up the reward, an’
the stallion back in ’is stable at Boolaroo
with heverybody ’appy.
i i K] OW,” Dinny swung around facing
1 N his friend from the Yellow Water-
hole, “Mr. Hinquisitive, is there anything
more y’d like t’ know—or are y’ satis-
fied?”
“Y’ worked it shrewd, all right,”
answered Jimmy, the curiosity of years
satiated, but still too deeply interested in
the theme to note the asperity in Dinny’s
tone or feel the challenging insult. “But
what about his git? From what I heard,
’e was more of a good-looker than a
good sire.”
Disappointment, chagrin, mortification
—all those emotions associated with
frustrated hopes and ambitions crowded
into the wrinkled features of Dinny Doyle
as he sensed the note of impeachment in
Jimmy’s tone.
“Yairs,” he admitted morosely, “we
thought we might git somethin’ to win
the Eumaralla Cup an’ clean up all the
meetin’s roundabout. But there must ’ave
been too much hinbreedin’ in ’is pedigree
—might as well ’ave put our mares to a
bleedin’ cart-’orse.”
Phonetic Spelling.
Would you send your old man to the
clever “beautician”
And have him returned to you powdered
and scented.
His bald pate bewigged with unholy pre-
cision,
As if Time of his ruthless assaults had
repented ?
The warts he was born with are levelled
and banished,
His honest old phiz is “improved” and
transfigured,
His wrinkles are ironed away and have
vanished.
Ditto his wild whiskers at which the hoys
sniggered.
Is this my old man, this image so
polished,
The just toll of age so unfairly evading.
With his stoop and his scars and his
horn-rims abolished,
In the false pride of youth like a fool
masquerading ?
Yes, he’s smartened and smoothed and
dolled up so smugly.
He may look rejuvenated, brighter and
brisker.
Yet together we faded, together grew
ugiy.
Ah, I loved every wort, every wrinkle
and whisker I
N.Z-
ARNOLD WALL.
SERVICE AT THE INN
By DAVID ROWBOTHAM
“Lord, a deacon. That’s Wgh up,
isn’t it?”
“Could be,” said The Fiver.
“What color?”
“Anglican. But he said church is for
all” —somewhat menacingly.
“Quite right, quite right.”
“You all coming?” Splutters, as if the
beer were choking, an uneasiness of
stools and some asides. The Fiver,
having given the opportunity for volun-
tary assent, now devastated the company:
“You’re all coming.” He looked signifi-
cantly at the 1.0. U.-box on the counter,
rolled down his sleeves as if to close
doors, and remarked inauspiciously tt>
Des Cligg, the carpenter: “Might be
needing that purse I won off you at cards
soon, Des.”
< ‘ P) EAR brethren, I am not unaware
t-' that this service, the first church-
service to be held on the Darling Downs,
may become historically an important
one in the eyes of the Church, so
Come in, Mr. Leslie. Delighted to see
you. There’s a chair over here.”. The
speaker crossed from his pulpit position
to shake hands with the
broad-bearded man who had
just strode into the parlor.
The parlor was respectfully
full. Des Cligg, seated among
his bar-associates, woj-e a
meaningless expression in the
back row. Henry Stuart
Russell, who had established
The Fiver as host of the Bull’s Head,
sat between Mr. Irving and Gilbert
Davidson. Mr. Rolleston —who had
read the lesson —and George Leslie,
“in” by chance with Patrick Leslie
from Warwick, were there; Mr. Fogarty
and Mr. Taylor, already half-asleep in
their stale-odored corner, William Hay,
Rees from Talgai, Chas Marsh from
Maryland, mothers, wives and children
wrapped in coats and rugs, and Jacky,
with the bemusement of a child, peeping,
twilight-eyed, around the doorway. The
Fiver, right to the front, nursed a cloth-
covered, substantially-filled tin plate and
looked into it now and then with an
ingenuous piety.
Outside drays, buggies, horses, pioneer-
ing makeshift vehicles, and dogs shelter-
ing behind the well wall, converted the
shanty-or-two township into a place of
sudden consequence, Sabbath-quiet in the
path of the bitter westerly, but warm,
with a desolate warmth.
“ So I’m introducing to this hard,
miraculous wilderness that you have
bought by sweat and staked out by the
crosses on the graves of your loved ones
a miracle of another country, Galilee,
where Christ, Himself but a pioneer, first
manifested His powers. I refer, brethren,
to the miracle at the marriage in Cana,
when Christ took water and changed it
into wine. You, brethren, shall take this
country as Me took the water, and change
it into wine, a rich, glowing manifesta-
tion of your powers.”
Murmurs —not without a tinge of
pride—of agreement. Jacky, turning
seriously to the unknown beside him at
the door; “What him say, boss?”
“Damned if I know,” muttered the un-
known, and someone said, “Shhh.” The
Fiver gazed bleak-eyed at his stockwhip
on the wall.
“Mrs. Hannay, the ribbon that you’re
looking for is just underneath your good
neighbor’s chair.”
“Oh, Thank you, Mr. Glennie.” Mrs.
Hannay, holding her bonnet to her em-
barrassed head, leaned and scraped for
the ribbon, retrieved it, and, with relief,
restored it to her “Sunday-best.”
“ This is your new world, brethren,
your miracle world. Its waters shall
brighten your blood. Its crops and
pasture-lands shall fill days you may not
see, perhaps. Some other may reap what
you have sown” Perceptible move-
ments of alarm, like ripples, ran through
a section of the gathering.
“ But you will have made
the feast possible, as Christ
made possible the marriage
feast at Cana of Galilee.”
Mr. Fogarty slid sideways
a little on to Mr. Taylor’s
shoulder, and was nudged
into his corner again. The
grandfather clock made a scratching noise
as its big hand began the struggle towards
the twelve,
i i L_J AVE dinner with us at Hannay’s,”
I! said Patrick Leslie after church.
Mrs. Hannay timidly endorsed the invita-
tion as it was passed on. “And then
come on to Toolburra.”
“Thank you, Mrs. Hannay, Mr. Leslie.
I” Des Cligg was suddenly inter-
cepted by a handshake. “I hear you’re
the carpenter here, Mr, Cligg. I’ll be
needing you soon to help me build St.
Matthews.”
Mr. Cligg looked mystified, but mur-
mured a reply.
“Oh, good, I see you’re a man of
vision, Mr. Cligg.”
The Fiver came forward with the col-
lection plate,
“And here’s the first subscription. How
much, Mr. Horton?”
“I haven’t counted it yet, reverend.”
“Don’t bother, Mr. Horton,” scraping
the plate and tipping the coins bravely,
because conspicuously, into his trouser-
pocket. “I’ll take a tally later. You’ve
been the perfect host and helper. Dray-
ton is to be my Darling Downs head-
quarters, so from now on I’ll be putting
some responsibility on the Bull’s Head
Inn.
“Sorry to keep you waiting, Mr.
Leslie,” A hat went on with a mild
thud and a Bible disappeared into the
saddle-bag of the motionless old horse
tied, needlessly, to the hitching-rail below
the verandah of the inn.
“On to yet more ‘fresh woods and
pastures new,’ eh?”
Patrick Leslie smiled acknowledgment
of the pleasantry and moved in beside
the old horse as his companion, with his
quotation heightened by a spring,
mounted.
The Fiver, awed, puzzled, discreet,
stood and watched as the young parson
on the horse he called “Jim Crow” rode
with the Leslie brothers in the direction
of the Condamine.
Old Men.
Today I have been thinking of very old
men,
So old that death, standing just at their
backs
Wears no disguise for them but is exactly
As each of them has come to think death
looks.
I have been thinking of withered static
bodies,
Tattered end-papers guarding wonderful
books.
And it has appeared to me also that they
resemble
j Cities shrouded by a grey, sweeping rain ;
They are simplified, they are like shapes
Seduced to angles,
The lowest common denominator of all
they are and have been.
Dim trees in the park had that aspect this
morning
Their colors even reduced, greyed down,
not green ;
Trees merely forms, as much of the city
as mortar.
Bound to the streets or the spires by the
sheets of rain,
Or like old men with a common cover of
years,
Removing their age from their youth,
making them wise
Or lending illusion of knowledge, making
them seem
Marvellously sage. Old men blink tired
eyes,
Move cracking lips with effort and hesita-
tion
Muttering softly (dead leaves wash to the
grass).
They discourse, not of today but of other
time
While constantly that shadow which
unnoticed stole
Behind each man, his final simplicity.
Waits the last wisdom, the merging of
part with whole.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


m
mmmM
m
m
saw
mm
■.*•••-■
>
• > & ’
mm*
■
iS®«
I
mg
:
Saffi
:■
*4
# #
y-<>; , o
A delightful bedroom. All
furniture and interior surfaces
were finished in "DVLUX.”
WITH LOVELY
SUED
COLOUR
(Versatile DULUX brings the perfect restful
atmosphere to your bedroom*—*with colour cbarm
tbat really lasts. DULUX ’ beauty is unchanged
by time and wear; surfaces finished in “DULUX”
are easily kept fresh and “new” by an occasional
wipe with a damp cloth. “DULUX” gives such a
wonderfully hard surface! It is formulated specially
to withstand the stress of everyday wear and still
keep “smiling.” “DULUX” is easy to apply . . .
and it dries evenly and quickly. For longer
lasting lustre and colour, choose “DULUX’L-
available in the colour you most prefer.
For general exterior house painting, use
“DULUX” Paint Type 587 Line.
B AL- IVf
DU
BSSSSSi
FREE BOOKLETS
These handy booklets outline very
simply the correct way to apply
"Dulux” to obtain the lull benefit
of its durability and beauty. . . .
For YOUR booklets, send to
British /Australian Lead Manu-
facturers Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 21,
Concord, N.S.W.
Products of British Australian Lead
Manufacturers Pty. Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
7 ///// a
Balm
cgujug)
i^aasassil
S^*u7r! rhUMUCHI ' ADr . l4 'atH^
THE SYNTHETIC FINISH
Supersedes Enamels and Varnishes s
COLOUR MAGIC FOLLOWS THE "OUtUX" BRUSH'
DX3
c -
tit
cut
R FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’*
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
In
"Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
3&AUBRITISH
A ALL'BKIIIM
gtewaiC
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart fir Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer, 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILLTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots SOlb,
weight or over.
Write to; Cash Order DepL,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D, Orders,
Cigarette Lighter Service
We stock spare parts for every well-
known make of Cigarette Lighter.
Send your defective lighter to us.
Repairs returned post free to any
address in the Commonwealth.
ROLLS RAZOR
CO. OF AUSX. PXY., LXD.,
8a Castlereagh St., Sydney. Bff 20S«
THE SERVICE MAN
Headaches in Europe
and Asia.
“Ek Dum”: Events which
affect Russia’s campaign for
world revolution seem to happen
with nice timing.
The Chinese having announced
the formation of their new Com-
munist Government, the U.S.S.R.
at once gave it diplomatic recog-
nition without waiting for the
issue of the campaign in southern
China or for a decision about
the fate of Formosa.
At present the Communists
have the north and centre. In
the interstices between their
forces Nationalists and war-
lords roam at large, and the
Nationalist Government still
“commands” the sea, even to
the extent of intimidating ships
of Britain and the United States.
The new Chinese “Govern-
ment” issued an offer of friendly
relations to foreign countries,
but the terms on which those
relations are to be established
was far from explicit. It was
inferred that those who would
come to an agreement would
have nothing to complain about.
A direct application for recog-
nition was made to the United
States, which has virtually
evacuated all its holdings and
interests on the Chinese main-
land, but there was room for a
suspicion that this approach was
not dictated by love of Uncle
Sam—who is being abused in the
most vituperative manner by
Moscow and every other agency
which it can control or guide—
but by hate for Britain, which it
is hoped to isolate, since it is
unlikely that even the Cripps-
and-Caterpillar Administration
which now flounders along amid
the tatters of the British pound
in Westminster will dare to
come to an arrangement for
recognition until it is sure what
the attitude of the new satellite
of Moscow will be towards
Hong Kong and the freedom of
the seas.
The United States State De-
partment has announced that
neither an immediate reply nor
formal action are contemplated.
New China and U.N.O.
Recognition of Communist
China by the Great Powers
would immediately create the
most complicated and embarras-
sing situation in U.N.0., since
it would be at once followed by
a demand for recognition of
Communist China’s right to
assume in U.N.O. the places and
privileges of old China.
These include one of the four
permanent seats on the Security
Council, a right of veto in
common with the other “Great
Powers,” a seat on the Trustee-
ship Council, with the right to
come and inspect New Guinea
to see that Mr. Ward is doing
his duty, and having Com-
munism taught faithfully to the
natives, plus, as at present, ad-
ministrative charge of the
trusteeship affairs. The Chinese
have actually managed the
U.N.O. end of White Aus-
tralia’s trusteeships within her
own defensive zone of New
Guinea, the Assistant Secre-
tary-General controlling the
Trusteeship division being Dr.
Tchi-tsai Hoo; also in due
turn they would have the right to
such offices as chairman of the
Board of Governors of the In-
ternational Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development, which
was held by a Chinese represen-
tative in 1947-48, and a turn
once every four months in com-
mand of the U.N.O. military
forces.
The other Great Powers out-
side Russia will probably desire
to see the picture from every side
before they agree to a course of
action which, in effect, would
give Russia a second veto in
U.N.O. or at least give the
Kremlin a new tool which could
be used in a very awkward
manner for the Western Allies in
relation to Asiatic problems.
Japanese advice yvas probably
the soundest if. it could be carried
out: “Leave China alone.” But
that will be no easier in the next
few months than it will be to
leave Japan alone.
The attitude of the Australian
Government seems to be that the
Japanese should continue to be
ostracised. That attitude would
be understandable among
soldiers, but among the members
of the present Ministry and their
followers it is grimly amusing,
and carries the brand of com-
plete insincerity.
After the last war many
members of the present Ministry,
and particularly the Victorians,
preferred Japan to Britain. A
glance at the issues of the
“Labor Call” for 1921 discloses
fierce attacks on Britain as a
Mood-sucking exploiter, imperi-
alistically dominating Australia,
coupled with cries for an Aus-
tralian-Japanese alliance to keep
out the Western imperialists, and
assurances that fears expressed
by Mr. Hughes about the inten-
tions of the Japanese were based
on a “bogey.” Messrs. Hollo-
way, Don Cameron, Drakeford,
Scullin and their associates were
very fierce about it.
Threats and Tricks in Europe
As a companion-piece to what
has been happening in China,
and neatly dovetailed with it, it
was made apparent that the
Russians intended to continue
the intimidation of Tito through
developing “unusual military
activity” along his borders, with
divisions strung out along the
approaches, the renunciation of
satellite countries’ treaties of
friendship with Yugoslavia and
patrols of heavy-bombers within
sight of Yugoslav towns, and of
Belgrade itself on a clear day.
If the Russians intended an
overt act they would scarcely be
so open in their preparations.
Unless their approach is bar-
barically unguarded and they are
prepared to precipitate a world
war, they would scarcely attack
Yugoslavia under present cir-
cumstances.
The whole affair may be cover
for what is taking place in Ger-
many, where Russia has been
pushing the idea of a United
Germany, and condemning the
foundation of the new Western
German State as a breach of the
Potsdam agreement.
The German situation is the
key to politics in Europe. It is
obvious that there must be a
settlement soon, and the Russian
plans seem to amount to an-
nexation of Eastern Germany on
the pretext of broken agreements
in respect of the West.
Communist Schemes
The arrangement proposed
might not be called “annexa-
tion,” but it would amount to
that if the prospective Chancel-
lor is Walter Ulbricht, as is sug-
gested, backed by the chairman
of the Communist Socialist
Unity party, Willi Pieck. These
two ruffians are about as much
citizens of Germany in their
own estimations as Stalin. They
are both world revolutionary
Communists of long standing,
Pieck one of the three or four
leading figures who laid down
the policy of world Communism
at the Seventh Congress of the
Comintern in 1935, the other two
being Togliatti (then called
Ercoli) and Dmitrov. The Aus-
tralian Communist party pub-
lished reams of Pieck’s rescripts.
The plan seems to be at
present to establish an Eastern
People’s Government of nomi-
nated persons, dominated by
Communists. In the West an
election was a preliminary to the
formation of a Government. In
the East, the Russian com-
mander, General Tulpanov, is
reported to have said that to
hold an election under present
circumstances would be un-
democratic —which means that
it would certainly be held some-
what under the influence of
Powers other than Russia and
might go a way which would
not be to the advantage of the
U.S.S.R.
Once a Government of the


Personal and Missing Friends.
TO KENNETH CHARLES BARTLETT
formerly, of Shepparton and of The Grove
Moreland in the State of Victoria but
now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife HEATHER JEAN BART-
LETT of 6 Nugent Street Shepparton
in the State of Victoria has instituted
proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground of three years’ desertion
UNLESS you enter an Appearance in
the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court in Melbourne on or . before the 21st
day of November 1949 and file an
Answer in the said office on or before
the Ist day of December 1949 the case
may proceed your absence notwithstand-
ing.—W. H. JONES & KENNEDY, Solici-
tors, 214 Nicholson Street, Pootscray,
TO MIHAI NICOARA (known as MICK
NICHOLSON) formerly of 467 Paseoe
Vale Road Glenroy in the State of Vic-
toria. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
JEANIE NICOARA (known as JEANIE
NICHOLSON) of 467 Paseoe Vale Ro-ad
Glenroy in the State of Victoria has in-
stituted proceedings against yoii for
divorce on the ground of desertion for
three years and upwards UNLESS' you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s
Office of the Supreme Court in Melbourne
on or before the 30th day of November
1949 and file an answer in the said office
on or before the 10th day of December
1949 the case may proceed in your ab-
sence.— J. P. MINOGUE CAREY &
MORAN, 20 Queen Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
TO the next-of-kin of THOMAS EBERY,
late of Toimonapu Plantation, Bougain-
ville, in the Territory of New Guinea,
Plantation Manager, who died on or after
the 31st day of December, 1942. Please
communicate with the undermentioned
administrator of the estate of the above-
named. Any person having information
which would be of value in tracing the
next-of-kin of the deceased is requested
to advise the undersigned.—H. W.
HARDY, Curator of Intestate Estates,
Port Moresby, Papua and New Guinea.
3/10/’49.
WILL HUGH (HUGHIE) GILROY, son
of Bertha Amelia Robinson, deceased, or
anyone knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with A. B. NEWELL, Soli-
citor, Box 830, Darwin, and learn some-
thing to his advantage.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO THOMAS ANGUS EDWARD COSTYN
late of Sydney and Yass. —TAKE NOTICE
that GLADYS MURIEL COSTYN has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3242 of 1949
on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse If you wish to defend you
may enter an Appearance at the Divorce
Office, Supreme Court, King Street, Syd-
ney, by 21st of December, 1949, and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from W. D. SCHRADER &
DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street, Sydney.—
(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS GEORGE JOSEPH BEDDOE
late of Newtown in the State of New
South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife EDNA MAY BEDDOE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2153 of 1949
on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and
upwards. If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office, Supreme Court, King Street, Syd-
ney, by the 28th day of December, 1949,
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from ADRIAN O. R. TWIGG, 160
Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
Many people still don’t realise
that there’s nothing difficult
about investing in the Eighth
Security Loan. If you.have £lO
or more saved up, go along to
any,Bank, Money Order Post
Office or Stockbroker and say
you want to invest. An
application form will be filled
in on the spot. Add your
signature and the transaction
will be completed. In a matter
of minutes you will have gcven.
yourself all the benefits of
this great investment
opportunity.
Surprising, isn’t it, that such
important benefits can be
obtained so easily. Read full
details in the column on the
right of this announcement
and decide at once to invest
your savings in the
Eighth Security Loan.
as
* n v
'‘•A ,• • •" : -
w§k
m.
mim
m
~ • ■ ■■■ •'
. ■>
Save for Security .
Invest in the
EIGHTH
SECURITY LOAN
8SL30.H3.99
ADVANTAGES
OF INVESTMENT IN
THE EIGHTH
SECURITY LOAN
Investment in the Eighth
Security Loan is easy, safe
and profitable, whether your
subscription is for £lO, £l,OOO,
£lO,OOO or more. Not only does
it help to protect your future,
it assists in maintaining
Australia’s prosperity as well.
Here are the facts you want
about the Eighth Security Loan:
LOAN FACTS:
The full amount sought is re-
quired to pay for Repatriation
and Rehabilitation, for Public
Works and Services of the
Commonwealth and States and,
as may be necessary, for
the redemption of unconverted
securities of the maturing
Loans.
For 31% Bonds, you may sub-
scribe for £lO, or any multiple
thereof.
For 31% Inscribed Stock, mini-
mum subscription is £lOO, but if
you already hold that amount,
you may increase your holding
by any multiple of £lO.
For 2% Bonds and Inscribed
Stock, you may subscribe for
£l,OOO or multiples thereof.
Your bank will hold Bonds in
safe custody without charge
You may invest for 3 years at
2% p.a. (subject to the above
conditions), or for 14 years at
3is% p.a.
Interest, calculated from the
date funds are lodged at banks,
savings banks or money order
post offices, will be paid on
15th April and 15th October
each year. It may be credited
to your bank or savings bank
account without charge.
Bonds or Stock may be readily
sold if you need to use your
money before the date of
maturity.
CONVERSION
OF MATURING
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITIES
Investors holding Bonds or
Inscribed Stock in previous
Commonwealth Loans which
have recently matured or are
about to mature may renew
their investments by converting
into the Eighth Security Loan.
These are the issues affected:
Matured 15th September: 2i%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1945—three issues.
The maturity date shown on
these Securities is 15th Sep-
tember, 1949-1950, but the
Treasurer has exercised his
option to redeem these Securities
on 15th September, 1949, and
they became due for conversion
on that date).
Maturing 15th October: 2%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1946—tw0 issues);
31% Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935—0ne issue).
Maturing Isth November: 31%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935 and 1936—tw0
issues).
If you hold Bonds and In-
scribed Stock in any of the
issues listed above, convert
your holdings at once into the
Eighth Security Loan. See your
, bank immediately.
“Real tigah country this, Cholmondeley !”
right kind has been established,
however, it can be taken for
granted that the populace will
develop an ardent love of Com-
munism. All the Government’s
local opponents will either be-
come possessed of a desire to
vote for Comrade Pieck and his
associates or to take a voyage
in a cattle-truck to Siberia or in
a cart to the nearest cemetery.
The Berlin Position
There are about 18,000,000
people in the Eastern zone
of Germany, which has been
given “self - government,” in-
cluding a large section of Ber-
lin. These have been virtually
blocked off from the rest of
Germany and the world in
general, the only times when
communication has been allowed
being when the Russians have
staged a carefully - organised
entry for picked members of the
Western Press, who have been
allowed to imagine that they
were seeing normality, whereas,
in fact, the scene has been care-
fully set up for their deception.
As the Chancellor of Western
Germany remarked during the
week, the inhabitants of the
Eastern zone live in “constant
terror,” as do the unfortunate
denizens of Czechoslovakia and
the other satellite countries
which at present are suffering a
wholesale purge, combined with
conscription for the coal- and
uranium-mines.
The greatest immediate
danger lies in Berlin, It was sug-
gested over the week-end that it
would be announced immedi-
ately that the Russians had with-
drawn, thus leaving a third of
the city in the hands of the
Eastern Germans and setting a
precedent for the new Western
German State to demand im-
mediately the freeing of the rest.
If “Eastern” Berlin is “freed” it
will still remain tightly under
the control of Russian agents
like Pieck, who owe their allegi-
ance to Moscow and not to
their own country. And the
“freeing” will certainly be ac-
companied by a withdrawal of
the recognition of the occupa-
tion of the rest of the capital
by the Western Powers.
Everything that is happening
adds up fo form a widespread
pattern from Paris to Hong
Kong. France is in political tur-
moil, no doubt largely caused
by under-cover Communists in
other parties posing as what
they are not for the purpose of
wrecking every Government as
it comes in. Germany is divided
and in its new birth-throes. The
whole of the satellite countries
of Eastern Europe are involved
in a “cold war” of their own.
The Russian atom-bomb was
exploded on the eve of the new
era of disturbance where some-
body would be sure of hearing
it. In Pakistan, since the
visit of the Premier (Liaqat
Khan) to Moscow, there are
signs and portents not very
reassuring—last week the por-
traits of British Royalty were
removed from the courts, for in-
stance. In China the Com-
munists, having declared their'
Government and established re-
lationships with Russia, have?
set their armies in motion again
and are within easy reach of
Canton.
As with the Chinese question
the Allies are not likely to sit !
down calmly in the face of Rus-
sian plans to turn Eastern Ger-
many into another Czechoslo-
vakia or Hungary. .
The near future is full of head-;
aches.
The Atom-bomb
■ . The Russians and their fellow-
travellers continue a delusive
campaign for the outlawing of
the atom-bomb, but nobody with
full knowledge of the facts takes
the campaign seriously.
The latest variation of propa-
ganda suggests that the U.S.S.R.
would offer to provide an in-
ventory of its atom-bomb re-
sources in exchange for full de-
tails of the United States atom-
bomb stocks. There is, as yet—
and never will be —any sugges-
tion that the Russians would
submit to inspection of their re-
sources, which is the key to the
whole matter, or would be if it
were possible to organise com-
plete inspection, which, in a
country of (he vastness of the
U.S.S.R., would be very diffi-
cult. It certainly could not be
accomplished without a com-
plete lifting of the Iron Curtain
and the permitting of foreign
observers to go where they
wished in Russia, when they
wished.
Brigadier Alwyn Ragnar
Garrett, C.8.E., who was
General Savige’s B.G.S. in
Bougainville, and who com-
manded at Wewak from Novem-
ber, 1945, to early in 1946 and
later went to Japan, where he
has carried the burden of the
administration of 8.C.0.F. very
efficiently and tactfully, is
shortly to take over command
of the Australian Staff College at
Queenscliff (Vic.). A Westralian
and a Dunfrooner, the new
Commandant was among the
first post-war flights of officers
commissioned from the R.A.M.
College* was sent to India to
serve with the Queen’s Bays and
passed Staff College at Camber-
ley just before World War II
began. He began his war as
brigade major, 18th Brigade,
A.1.F., in England, in May,
1940, and took over the 2/31st
Battalion. He had some training
in armored fighting before going
to the Middle East, where he
was Corps representative with
the British Army. He saw ser-
vice in Greece and was for a
time attached to the famous 7th
Armored Division and gradu-
ally reached the position of
Director of the Armored Fight-
ing Vehicles Directorate in Aus-
tralia. In July, 1943, he went
to Ist Aust. Corps, New Guinea
Force. He will be succeeded in
Japan by Brigadier Roy
C.8.E., D. 5.0., who is exchang-
ing positions with him, having
held the Queenscliff appoint-
ment since January, 1947,
* * * *
The Council of the Ninth
Division Association has de-
cided to assemble at the Ceno-
taph, Sydney, this year on
October 22, to commemorate El
Alamein. The actual anniver-
sary of the battle (Oct. 23) falls
on a Sunday. An invitation has
been issued to Eighth Army
personnel of all three services to
join in the march, for which the
units will form in York-street
at 6 p.m., with the column ex-
tending down York-street to-
wards the Bridge, It will march
via Barrack-street to the Ceno-
taph, where Lieutenant-General
Sir Leslie Morshead and Unit
Representatives will lay wreaths
and a short ceremony will be
held. The column will then
move off up Martin-place, and
transport will be provided to
take those wishing to attend a
Divisional Reunion, which will
be held in the Engineers’ Depot
at Moore Park. Sir Leslie Mors-
head will give a short address
at this function and appropriate
refreshments will be served. The
inclusive cost for the evening
will be 10s., and the Council
wish all desiring to attend to
purchase tickets through their
Unit Associations or through the
Honorary Secretary, R. G’. Mair,
39 Martin-place. Telephone
8W7273.


BSB3
mm
i^^Baaaas^asaaaaaamßaatf
Orders Now Accepted
IN RUSSET-RED OR GREEN FINISH
Place your order for WUNDERLICH METAL TILE
ROOFING now, and be assured of a colourful,
watertight, RUSSET-RED or GREEN roof for your
new home. Stamped from sturdy G' x 3' sheets
of Zincanneal to boldly simulate French pattern
Tiles, dipped in synthetic enamel, and oven-
baked to a hard, colourful surface finish,
Wunderlich Metal Tile Roofing is economical to
transport and easy to fix.
'Phone MX 2411 or write to Box 474, G.P.0.,
Sydney, for prices and illustrated leaflet.
Metal Tile Roofing is available in N.S.W. and
Queensland only.
'IETAL tile roofing
I STAMPED AND STOVE ENAMELLED ZINCANNEAI
A PRODUCT OF THE METAL-WORKING DIVISION OF
WUNDERLICH LIMITED
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. tp.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine,
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folda
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
AJdreM
B. 12.10.’49
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House.
U 7 Elizabeth Street. Sydney. MA 725«
Ix 4
c
US
7&i
In your favourite shape
at all good stores.
Priced at 56/-.
Flawlessly crafted in
England of age old
bruyere and distin-
guished for its rich grain
and superb finish, the
“Sasieni” is truly perfec-
tion in pipecraft. In-
built, too, is the patented
“Sasieni” moisture trap,
which assures a mellow,
dry, satisfying smoke.
Distributed by WILCOX MOF FUN
Branches in all States.
A
t
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
DEVALUATION DOUBTS.
By an odd association of bed-
fellows, the Communist “Daily
Worker” joined the majority
side of the British Press in de-
nunciation of the Crippsian de-
valuation of the £.
The move, in the “Daily
Worker” view, was “a terrible
blow to the common people of
Britain,” forcing on them the
“immediate rise in the price of
bread,” which duly happened ;
this to be “followed gradually
by price rises in other articles
into which dollar materials
enter”:
“Think of it. A great dollar
drive t 6 earn more is to be un-
dertaken. If by great efforts we
increase exports by 40 per cent,
we will be earning as many
dollars as we were prior to de-
valuation. We have to make
this tremendous effort not to re-
duce the dollar gap but to pre-
vent it from increasing. We
won’t begin to reduce' the dollar
gap unless we sell about four
times the amount of goods to
the United States than we are
doing at present.
“This would be impossible
even if the U.S. were moving
back to an unprecedented
boom, in which the U.S. manu-
facturer could sell everything
he produced at good prices and
could therefore disregard
foreign competition,
“In other words Cripps is
gambling on the U.S. going into
a boom once more. If it does
not, all our sacrifices will be in
vain. We will have raised our
cost of living, cut our export
costs in order to earn the same
amount of dollars as we were
doing before devaluation.”
So far in that statement of the
matter the London Commun-
ist sheet was in full agreement
with some of the most extreme
opponents and critics of the de-
valuation move and of the Gov-
ernment. Naturally, it differed
on the very point on which all
others agreed ; it holding that,
as there must be a rise in the
cost of living, there must also be
increases in wages.
The “News Chronicle” in-
terpretation—that the move re-
presented “a challenge to the
British people and an oppor-
tunity”—can be taken as
typical of the British Press
comment most favorable to the
Government. It added: —•
“If devaluation is made the
excuse for asking and granting
wage and salary increases all
round, the cost of living and our
production costs will rise and so
undo the results we hoped to
achieve by devaluation. This
would once more put sterling
costs out of scale with world
prices. The same is true of the
present very high level of Gov-
ernment expenditure. The
strictest economy in both public
and private spending is the one
sure safeguard against inflation.
“The day when the pound
ceased to be linked to gold in
September, 1931, and Britain
abandoned the long-drawn-out
effort to maintain an unduly
high rate of exchange, marked
a turn in the tide of the Great
Depression between the wars.
If Sir Stafford Cripps’s economy
programme is carried out with
vigor and without regard to
political pressures, the same
may prove true of today’s
decision.”
Also favorable to the Gov-
erment on this issue, Manchester
“Guardian” declared flatly:
“That Sir Stafford Cripps’s
decision is right, in the circum-
stances as they have become,
there can be no serious doubt.”
By the devaluation of the £ the
British, it held, had in effect
admitted that they could not
earn more dollars without
having more people in Britain
working to earn each ton of im-
ports ,
“The cost of living will rise.
For that to be offset by higher
wages would be to offset the
purpose of the devaluation in
lowering British prices and to
open the way to further infla-
tion—and another devalua-
tion ... . The only way is to
make up for the higher cost of
imports by greater efficiency
and lower prices in our own
production.”
The “Daily Express,” in its
usual fashion, was much more
downright in both interpreta-
tion and criticism. The move
meant “Hardship for us all. A
lowering of living standards for
the entire community,” It set
a challenge “to work with de-
termination and go without
for the sake of Britain in face
of the follies of her public
men.” The paper had been an
advocate of complete freeing of
the £:•—
“If the policy of freeing the
£ were put into effect even now,
the term of our hardships would
be greatly reduced. The £
would fall, perhaps even as low
as 2.80.; But its recovery would
be rapid and final. It would be
strong because the whole world
-Minneapolis (U.S.A.) "Star."
THE MOUNTAIN-CLIMBERS.
would have chosen its right and
honest value. No group of
politicians can do that.”
The deed, however, had been
done, and had to be accepted;
but there was still:
“No guarantee that the
Socialists intend to give up the
prosecution of the wretched
projects that have brought the
nation to this state of beggary.
Iron and steel are still to be
sunk alongside the lumbering
nationalised industries like coal,
railways, gas, electricity, avia-
tion.
“And no guarantee that the
millions now being wasted are
to be curtailed or limited at all.
“Here is a Government that
has received from Canada,
Australia and America the sum
of £2OOO million in loans and
gifts in four years. At the end
of it the only method that has
been produced for the purpose
of dealing with the problems
that confront the nation is an
act of inflation which raises the
price of bread.”
Also among the downright
critics, the “Financial Times”
interpreted the move as spelling
“the nemesis of Socialism,” and
Gripps’s explanations as “in-
tended to conceal the fact that he
has lurched into further inflation,
despite his many promises.”
Cripps’s conduct in Washington,
it said, could be summarised in
the words; “He came, he saw,
he capitulated.” And “his
surrender was made to those
very devaluers in America who
have been so bitterly denounced
by Socialist politicians in every
Socialist newspaper.”
It would have none of
Cripps’s defence in the recent
House of Commons debate of
his frequent previous denials
of any devaluation intention: —•
“The prolonged delay while
the Government dithered on the
devaluation brink has certainly
cost this country and the
sterling area as a whole the loss
of tens of millions of gold and
dollars and of the considerable
additional income in non-dollar
currencies that it would have
secured had the overseas buyers’
strike against over-priced British
goods been brought to an end
by readjustment of the rate
when it first assumed serious
proportions some months ago.
Some of this lost ground may
be recovered later, but most of
the leeway can never be made
up.”
In the “Financial Times’s”
view the devaluation was “con-
siderably greater than was
needed to remedy the overvalua-
tion of sterling”;
“The presumption is, there-
fore, that the British authorities
have, for reasons of their own,
chosen to hold something in re-
serve against the possibility of a
further deterioration in our
competitive position in the
period ahead. This anxiety to
be on the safe side is one of
several indications that, so far
as Sir Stafford Cripps and his
advisers are concerned, devalua-
tion of sterling is nothing more
or less than a leap in the dark-”
The certain rise in the cost of
living, even if small, would have
“potentially explosive political
consequences,” with large
groups of workers already
pressing for higher wages on the
ground that the rise in living
costs had outstripped the ad-
vance in wage rates, though “if
personal incomes are to be
allowed to rise in proportion to
the rise in living costs, the bene-
fits of devaluation will be
rapidly eliminated and the
country will be speedily returned
to a condition of chronic dollar
crisis.” Unless counter-infla-
tion measures are put in motion
straight away:
“This will not be a once-for-
all devaluation, bringing rapid
and decisive progress towards
economic independence. It will
be simply the first of a series
of devaluations leading to ever-
increasing deterioration i n
Britain’s international position
and to a steady and calamitous
decline in her already meagre
living standards. On the basis
of the new sterling-dollar rate
there may well be a temporary
revival of confidence in sterling
in its new status. But that con-
fidence will be brief and tran-
sient unless we quickly put in
motion those other policies
which are essential if the new
status of the pound is to be pre-
served.”
London “Daily Telegraph,”
looking very doubtfully on a
number of possible factors
likely to be upsetting to calcula-
tions, including “the possibility
of falling prices in the United
States,” declared that;
“One way and another the
most fervid advocate of devalu-
ation could scarcely venture to
claim that it will suffice to bal-
ance Britain’s dollar trade even
now with the European Recovery
Programme still running;


PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
dsf
ds
Sores caused by
dialing napkins
ate soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic , Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender skin.
One of the famous trio—-
Cuticura Ointment. Soap
and Talcum i’owder. ,
r
OINTMENT
S'r'
•A'
y
5^
sumsm)
Scared of the daily shaving routine?
Forget it! Frighten the stiffening
out of that beard in the mirror, with
Ingram's. Ingram's is a cool, con-
centrated stubble-slayer, favourite
with a million and more shrewd
shavers. Ingram's soothes as it
smooths as it softens, and brings
shaving joy in the morn. Make a
shrewd investment in shaving se-
curity and, starting to-day, shave
the Ingram's way. Have the first 7,
FREE shaves on Ingram's—send the
coupon below without delay.
SUAVE
with
SECURITY /
%
SHAVIN6 CREAM
FROM
CHEMISTS
EVERYWHERE
- i
i
ram's
Cream
65 A WAY
s&*nr
i.WirS
jsMv&me
NAME; -
ADDRESS-
Bristol Myers Co. Fty. Ltd.,
223 Pacific Highway, North Sydney, N.S.W.
1184
still less in 1952, when it has
come to an end.”
At the best, devaluation was
no more than “a shot in the
arm, providing the patient with
a brief burst of energy, which,
unless he uses it to restore him-
self, will leave him when it is
spent feebler than before.” It
concluded:
“This devaluation shows that
the honeymoon time of dollar-
subsidised Socialism has drawn
to a close, and that there is no
alternative now but to face up to
the harsh realities of our eco-
nomic situation.
“How harsh they are can
scarcely be exaggerated. We are
right up against things, and
there is no way out save by hard
work and tight belts. In look-
ing this sombre prospect squarely
in the face we have at least the
consolation of knowing.. . .that
in the Dominions (and in the
countries of Western Europe) we
have staunch collaborators, in
the colonial territories vast re-
serves of hitherto undeveloped
wealth, and in the United States
an ally whose wealth and power
are increasingly being pledged to
the maintenance of the whole
sterling system.”
Dismantling Excesses.
Instances of dismantling ex-
cesses in Germany, quoted by a
London “Fortnightly” contribu-
tor: —
“A classic example is that of
the Schiess-Defries machine-tool
works at Duesseldorf, which was
allocated to Russia. Here not
only the plant was removed but
the factory buildings were de-
molished as well so that the
massive steel piers and girders
could be shipped to the Soviet
Union. Everything went, the
rails in the yard were ripped up
and even tiles from the workers’
lavatories were chipped off the
walls.
“At Krupps’ most modern
steel rolling mills at Essen-
Borbeck, also destined for
Russia, the beds of the mills
were blasted out of the ground
so that the steel in them could
be cut into small sections. That
steel can never be used again and
is only fit for scrap when it
reaches Russia. Yet the Russians
announced that they were not
interested in thousands of tons
of high-quality steel ingots lying
a few yards away.”
On such excesses —not re-
stricted to Russians —“Yorkshire
Post” comments that they “con-
vince the Germans that the Allies
are damaging German industries
beyond the needs of reparations
and security, and that this is
either barbarous, wanton sabot-
age or due to a desire to stifle
German industrial zeal lest it
compete with the Allies.”
Fled from “Paradise.”
Escapees from beyond the
“Iron curtain” who have been
given asylum in the U.S. since
the war as “political refugees”
(N. Y. “Times” listing):
Dr. G, M, Dimitrov, former
president, Bulgarian Agrarian
party;
Charles Davila, former
Minister of Rumania to U.S.;
Vladimir Nacek, former presi
dent, Croatian Peasant party ;
Brunko P. Eselj, secretary to
Nacek ;
Stanislav Mikolajczyk, former
Prime Minister of Poland ;
G. Ligor Taskovic, former
Mayor of Belgrade ;
J. Uraj Slavik, former U.S.
Ambassador of Czechoslovakia ;
Bela Fabian, former president,
Independent Democratic party
of Hungary;
Peter Zenko, former Mayor of
Prague ;
Arnost Heydrich, former
Secretary-General, Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, Czecho-
slovakia ;
Bela Varga, former Speaker
of Parliament, Hungary ; ?
Ferenc Nagy, former Prime
Minister of Hungary;
Constantin Fotich, former
Yugoslav Ambassador to the
U.S.;
Victor Kravchelko, writer;
Oksana Kasenkina, former
Russian schoolteacher;
Piotr Afanasievich Pirogov,
Soviet aviator;
Anatoli Porfirievich Barsov,
Soviet aviator.
Of all those, only one —the
last-named—-has gone back, or
wanted to go back. Of him, his
aviator fellow-escapee, Pirogov,
used the terse description “stupid
man.”
Socialistic Secrecy.
Sweeping change in Britain’s
economic machinery noted in a
London “Daily Telegraph” letter
by Sir Ernest Benn;
“Socialism turns out to be a
system of secrecy. The prompt
and detailed information, on
which world trade used to rely,
has almost completely dis-
appeared.
“The Bank of England issued
every week a return to inform
the whole world of our exact
coin and cash position at the
close of business on the previous
evening. Numerous market re-
ports, compiled by experts, gave
in the fullest detail the stocks of
the leading raw materials. The
tape machines made it possible
to follow from hour to hour the
movements of all essential
needs ; and, as if this were not
sufficient, the rise or fall of a few
cents or pence in the price of
anything—timber, copper, coffee,
tea —was immediately available
to buyers and sellers everywhere.
“Such was the basis of a world
confidence in Britain which gave
us our high standard of living,
and could do it again. It was
a British system centred on Lon-
don, supplemented and extended
but never supplanted, even by
the United States.
“For the moment all this vital
information has gone under-
ground ; or perhaps behind the
Iron Curtain of the Official
Secrets Act.”
Restraining Joe.
While the bursts of Com-
munist repartee between Joe and
Tito rose to crescendo, N. Y.
“Times” manager and writer
Edwin L. James, evidently
puzzled, like many others, over
what was restraining Joe, con-
cluded that bringing Tito back
to where he would take orders
from the Kremlin was not as
simple as it might look, for one
particular reason:
“While much of the progress
Moscow has made in building
up its list of satellite States has
been accomplished by the
presence or nearness of Russian
troops, yet in many other coun-
tries the Soviets are sticking to
their line that their appeal is to
the mind and hearts of men. In
these countries the appeal of
Communism is made on the
basis that it is for the good of
the people and to save them from
the machinations of wicked
nations which do not believe in
Communism. It happens to be
a fact that this is the method
of appeal in countries where the
—Denver (U.S-A.) “Post.”
THE PICKET.
Russians do not have armies on
the spot or conveniently near by.
“Such is the appeal in France,
in Italy, in West Germany, in
Belgium, in Holland and in many
other countries. The defence
of the 11 Communist leaders be-
ing tried in New York for advo-
cating the overthrow of the
American Government by force
is that it is by reason rather
than by force that it has been
sought to establish a Com-
munist rdgime in the United
States. The defence stoutly
denies the leaders would try to
do that by force.”
Hence, if, in the face of all
that, Russia should send an army
into Yugoslavia to bring Tito
into line the argument about the
appeal to reason would look
very sick indeed. Such Russian
action would give immense
ammunition to those who preach
that Communism is based on
force and would undoubtedly
result in the loss of influence by
Communists in a number of
countries.
“That is something Stalin has
to think about, and it is doubt-
less one of the factors which
lends boldness to Tito.”
“Free” Health Popular.
Back in the U.S. from a recent
visit to Britain, Scripps-Howard
senior editor E. T. Leech sup-
ported the view already strongly
stated in an article here —that
“No matter what the future
brings in political and economic
upheavals, the British people will
not give up their State-supported
health and medical care system.”
Describing it as the one
Socialist creation that adherents
of the Labor and Conservative
parties alike want to see con-
tinued, “and probably enlarged
upon,” Leech commented:
“It is an expensive system
costing about $1,500,000,000
annually, of which less than
$500,000,000 is contributed
by the public’s insurance
payments. The rest comes out
of general taxes and is one huge
reason for the high cost of liv-
ing in Britain today.”
But, “while the system has its
faults, it has done great good
for the poor, particularly women
and children,” and “no matter
who wins at the polls the system
will be expanded.”
Dragnet Digest.
Leading Do liar-earners. —Looking
into the returns of the Board of
Trade the “Yorkshire Post’s” wool-
trade correspondent finds that exports
of the wool-textile industry earn more
dollars than any other British in-
dustry rakes in. Taking the North
American market as a whole, the
wool-textile industry beats even the
motor trade, with much-publicised
whisky a fairly remote third. Figures
for the first seven months of this
year are: Wool textiles, £13,163,000;
vehicles, £12,807,000; beverages,
£6,870,000; then come cotton,
machinery, pottery and non-ferrous
metals —all topping £4 million. A
considerable part of the trade in wool
textiles is with Canada; even so,
of the wool fabrics the U.S. imports,
some 80 per cent, has been going
there from Britain.
* * * *
Migrant a Little Sour. —One M. E.
Bardsley, who apparently found Aus-
tralia a dreadful hole to be in back
in the late ’twenties, quotes in a
Manchester “Guardian” letter some
corroborative comments by a more
recently returned migrant: “I saw
more broken hearts and empty
pockets in Australia than I have ever
seen before what they call a
house there we would call a dog-
kennel here we got one room,
and three of us slept in one three-
quarter-size bed we knocked
at all doors to find a garage or
somewhere to live...,we met hunr
dreds who would do anything to get
back.” To which touching remarks
the letter-writer adds: "The immigra-
tion policy of the Chifley Govern-
ment, backed by big Australian in-
dustrialists, if not checked, will rival
in misery anything since the enclosure
system in England and the driving
of the people from the land to live
in the city slums as factory labor.”
* * * *
Devaluation “Free Gift/’ —In the
discussion of devaluation in Britain
it has been looked at from every
possible angle in many odd slants of
light. Instance a London “Times”
letter-writer’s logical-enough view of
the 40 per cent, export increase neces-
sary to maintain the already exist-
ing supply of dollars: “In effect, this
40 per cent, increase will be a free
gift to the United States for which
we shall receive no dollar payment
whatsoever. To produce this extra
40 per cent, the community will have
to work harder and for nothing—
which shows that our salvation must
come through toil and not through
currency rearrangement.”
* * * *
Australian Gifts to Britain. —As
examined by London “Daily Ex-
press”: “Australia gives Britain an-
other £lO million. That makes a
total of £45 million received by this
country in the form of gifts from
the generous Australian people since
1945. At the end of the war Britain
owed Australia £136 million. Since
then, that debt has grown to £306
million. At this rate, the debt will
amount to £lOOO million in another
16 years. It looks as if the only way
to save Australia as well as Britain
is to get rid of the profligate Socialist
Government in this country,”
* * ♦ *
Wingless C hooks. Wirenetting
being these days reserved for fencing
off the mirage of the Golden Age,
poultrymen and others who keep
chooks should be interested in a
variety reported by “Life” as flourish-
ing on a chicken-run in lowa. Pro-
duct of 12 years of breeding, the
birds have no wings, though normal
otherwise. The flocks of them run
in pens with batten sides only 18
inches high. They can’t fly out, and
apparently they haven’t learnt hurd-
ling yet. They should be specially
suitable for Russia.
* * * *
Financing Socialism. —As a sample
of a widespread turn of comment in
the U.S. on aiding Britain, N. Y.
“Daily News” sees the British Labor
Government as merely promising, for
next year’s elections, to carry on the
present state ©f affairs and make it
worse. “Therefore,” it comments,
“what we’d like to know is: How
long is the U.S. taxpayer going to be
required by Congress and the Ad-
ministration to finance in large part,
via the Marshall Plan, these crazy
and crippling shenanigans of the
British Socialists?”
« * * *
Giant Uncle Sam. —The new stature
of Uncle Sara, pithily expressed jn
a sentence or two by N. Y. “Times” :
“Since the war Washington has spent
$23,000,000,000 for foreign aid. In one
way or another the U.S. is committed
to defend about three-fifths of the
earth’s land surface and one-third of
its people. The basic aim is to lead
the non-Communist world in opptpsi-
tion to the spread of Soviet Russia’s
power. That is the national policy.”


NOW! PROOF that brushing teeth right
after eating is the safe, effective way to
HELP STOP
TOOTH DECAY
with Colgate Dental Cream
Exhaustive Research by Eminent American Dental
Authorities Proves How Using Colgate Dental Cream
Helps Stop Tooth Decay Before it Starts!
Now dental science offers
proof that always using
Colgate Dental Cream right
after eating helps stop
tooth decay before it starts!
Continuous research —hun-
dreds of case histories
makes this the most im-
portant news in dental
history! Eminent American
dental authorities supervised
2 groups of college men and
women for over a year. One
group always brushed their
teeth with Colgate Dental
Cream right after eating.
The other group followed
their usual dental care.
The average of the group
using Colgate’s as directed
was a startling reduction in
number of cavities—far less
tooth decay! The other
group developed new
cavities at a much
higher rate.
©font V-
Large 1/3
m
m
Mil
sm
NO OTHER DENTIFRICE
OFFERS PROOF
OF THESE RESULTS
Colgate’s has been proved to
contain ail the necessary
ingredients, for effective
daily dental care. No claim
is made that using Colgate’s
can stop all tooth decay, or
help cavities already started.
But brushing teeth right
after eating is the proved
way to help stop tooth decay
with Colgate Dental Cream.
HP
NO CHANGE IN
FLAVOUR. FOAM,
OR CLEANSING ACTION
Always Use Colgate’s* to
Ip Clean Your Breath While
You Clean Your Teeth—and
HELP STOP TOOTH DECAY!
*Right after eating.
DlO/169 ___
Now
OC3
/
-*• is less than 30 hours away
’ ir
fl£ A
LU=
Zj£[\
mz\
is
/ $
iX
I /f«
Britain’s commercial “Crown Jewel,”
Hong Kong, is teeming with trade oppor-
tunities and travel attractions. See Hong
Kong for yourself—now less than 30 hours from
Sydney by comfortable Q.E.A. Skymaster
airliner flying direct via Darwin and Labuan
(North Borneo).
Regular service—fine meals served in the
air . . . first class steward service.
The Q.E.A. Service makes a same-day
connection at Hong Kong for Tokyo.
Consult your travel agent or
Cfaftfab
AUSTRALIA'S INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE
in association with British Overseas Airways Corporation
SMOE-OH!
PIMM’S NO, I CUP
The No. i Drink
For wise men
“Israel Stands Pat.”
—Hobart "Mercury.”
The Cohens and the Kellys
again?
•f* 4* •h
“Cost has practically nothing to
do with smartness.”
•— Woman’s paper.
But the figure must be reason-
able, all the same.
•h
“Personally meeting well-known
commentator, Mr. J. A. McCallum,
asd of hearing him speak upon the
??? of the problems confronting the
world today.”
—Suburban paper.
Questions will be invited.
“Wanted, semi-nurse, live in,
middle-aged.”-— Suburban paper.
Or a half-sister will be accept-
able.
•P * *
Impossible.
“Prizewinning model wore drooping
cabbage-leaves surmounted by a pine-
apple busby.” —Sydney "Sun.”
“Ah non ! ” The French hat-
designer tore, at his thinning
hair and waved his arms at his
shapely blonde assistant.
“Ze cabbage-leaves—it is too
long! ”
With a pair of long scissors
she trimmed 6in. off the wilting
leaves and added a perfumed
spray of assorted garbage. He
made a gesture of despair. She
added a deft dab of gooseberry-
pie and trimmed off the whiskers,
but still he was not satisfied.
She rammed a Spanish onion
into an ice-cream cone, attached
a small bouquet of garlic, pinned
it to the crown and trimmed it
to even length. Tears filled his
eyes. It still looked like nothing
on earth. But terrible continen-
tal oaths melted on his lips as
he observed her shapely petite-
ness, her sad violet eyes, her
languorous lashes, her embon-
point, and he rushed over and
folded her in his arms.
He couldn’t be angry with
such a real little trimmer!
Jonas Dill.
•I* *b
“No wonder the human body gets
ulcers and high blood-pressure. Here
we have an organism that was de-
signed for biblical times. Yet we
expect it to cope with artificial light-
ing, board meetings, the din of auto-
mobile horns and soap operas, car-
bon monoxide, smoke and gum.”
—Sunday newspaper.
The monkey from his tree was
prised
In order to he civilised:
Not now prehensile, pity him,
Poor ape, left out upon a limb !
Jean Stanger.
Starting from Scratch.
“The Czech Government has
ordered all Czech athletes and
journalists to return to school. The
athletes must brush up Marxist doc-
trine and the journalists must learn
Russian.”
Oh ! What avails a sturdy frame,
Apollo’s limbs and world-wide
fame.
To all you young athletic Czechs
When Uncle Joseph little recks
If you are strong and fleet of
foot
Unless his local agents put
On you the seal of his approval ?
You’re surely scheduled for re-
moval
To jobs considered far inferior
If not to distant, cold Siberia
Unless you are indoctrinated
With Lenin’s bitterness and
hatred.
So leave the track and back you
go
To school and learn what you
should know,
That runners on the roads and
parks
Must bend the knee at —'‘On
your Marx!”
D. H. E.
Pinks in the Red.
“The JM.S.W. Auditor-General,, in
his annual report, again criticises
the method of presenting
mental accounts, and emphasises the
serious drift in finances, particularly
the grave position of the chief State
enterprises.”
All was quiet in the Treasury.
As quiet as the morgue. In
fact, it could have almost been
mistaken for the morgue. Sud-
denly one of the ledgers was
thrown violently open and
Accumulated Deficit bounced
arrogantly out, flexing its bulg-
ing muscles. There seemed to
be a terrific struggle going on
inside the ledger. Accumulated
Deficit laughed brutally.
“Excuse me —do you mind if I don't smoke ?”
“Fine hope you have of un-
scrambling yourselves after the
job Jimmy did on you!” he
jibed at all the accounts.
A Trial Balance looked out at
the arrogant one. “You can’t
keep him down,” he said. “Eats
like a horse and is always full
of beans. Getting as big as the
side of a house, too.”
“I’d like some of his energy,”
put in Tramway Revenue
Account lugubriously. “Look
at me—weak as a mosquito
that’s been trying to live on
Frankie Sinatra!”
The Tramway Expenses Ac-
count stopped his blithe whist-
ling for a moment. “Always
growling, some of you fellows,”
he said cheerfully. “You don’t
hear me whingeing, yet I’ve
grown so much since McGirr
rushed his forty-hour week
through so as to make a good
fellow of himself, they can’t get
a page to fit me for more , than
a day or two. Ah, it’s great to
be alive! The basic wage’ll be
up another few bob shortly, and
they’ll have to measure me for
a new ledger then —I’ll never be
able to get into my old one.”
A cracked, senile voice came
from the corner. It was the
Railways P. and L. Account.
“I mind the time,” it wheezed,
“somewhere back in the ’thirties
when I was about the only
healthy feller in the ledger. I
could ’ve chewed up half you
miserable warts as an appetiser
before the end of the financial
year. Now, take a screw at me
pins—if I tried to stand up
they’d snap off. But Jimmy still
thinks I’m healthy enough be-
cause of the permanent flush I’ve
got through being so much in the
red! He never guesses it’s per-
nicious anaemia I’ve got. But
then Jimmy wouldn’t wake up
if one of his railway refresh-
ment-room scones fell on him! ”
“Who would?” put in a voice.
There was a sudden scurry
among the pages of the ledger,
and a truncated figure leaped
out and disappeared into an-
other ledger.
“That Lottery Profits Account
is a sad case,” said the Grand
Balance Sheet. “Spends all his
time trying to find out where the
biggest part of him that they’ve
hacked off has got to. Only a
mug that’s been nourished by
mugs would be boneheaded
enough not to look in the Con-
solidated Revenue Account. I
can’t understand anyone, though*
being idiot enough to believe the
mob handling us would think all
of him would be credited to Hos-
pitals Commission’s Account.”
A pair of fat and happy-look-
ing twin accounts which had
been jigging about in great spirits
on the right side of one of the
big ledgers paused to put in a
word. They were the Bookies’
Tax Account and the Tote
Revenue Account. “We won’t
hear a word said against Jimmy
McGirr,” they chorused merrily.
“While he’s in power we’ll
always be well-nourished. And
now the night trots. Tra-la-la!
Sorry you State Enterprise jokers
have to doss permanently on the
opposite side of the P. and L.
Account to us, but, dammit,
don’t tell us you were goats
enough to hope to get over on to
our side under a bunch of crack-
pot Socialists!”
Just then there came a sepul-
chral groan from the recesses of
the Grand Balance Sheet. It
was the Sinking Fund. “He’s
sinking all right,” said the Con-
solidated Revenue Account com-
passionately. “Someone ought
to put the poor cow out of pain
with another hefty Withdrawal.
Don’t know how he keeps alive! ”
Sundry Accounts spoke up.
“Jimmy keeps him alive with
a few drops of financial glucose
now and then —if he was allowed
to wriggle out altogether there’d
be an Opposition demand for
an investigation, and that’s one
thing Jimmy doesn’t want,
though, of course, he’s got the
numbers to gag it.”
He pointed to a pale, rachitic
figure that was leaning against
two parallel lines trying to put
itself together.
“Pathetic, that’s wL_t old
General Superannuation
Account is,” he said. “Can’t
seem to realise his own condi-
tion.”
At that moment a queer-look-
ing figure emerged swaying
drunkenly as it walked.
“Gripes, who’s that?” asked
one of the new accounts. “He’s
well inked.”
“Don’t be silly,” said Consoli-
dated Revenue. “That’s General
Accounts. He’s got that way
permanently from being juggled
so much by the McGirr!”
BO.
“National” Anthem.
Australia’s sons, who have no
choice.
Sing loud as tho’ you’re free ;
When bureaucrats say “Lift your
voice,”
We shout aloud with glee.
Sing loud of strikes, of boards
and pools.
And other treasures rare.
So down your tools and yell like
fools,
“Advance Australia—where ?”
In joyful strains then let us sing,
‘‘No nation can compare.”
So praise our country while we
can.
This paradox content!
Where Parliament works not for
man
But man for Parliament.
We’ve filled the waterholes with
dust,
The plains we’ve trampled
bare.
If Parkes could see he’d say:
‘‘My Gpd !
Is that A ustralia there ?”
In joyful strains then let us sing,
“Advance Australia —where ?”
L J. I.


tOWEOW.
1
%
L
♦
mmt
airnefe
/00Z Jus/ka/uM ... £6a/np/bns of/6e /&a<f
A PRODUCT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
0T28.16.49
CITY TATTERSALL’S CLUB
SPRING
RACE MEETING
RANDWICK
SATURDAY, 15th OCTOBER. 1949
PRINCIPAL EVENTS:
GEORGE HERDSMAN STAKES— 6 FURLONGS
CITY TATTERSALL’S GOLD CUP H MILES
FIRST EVENT 12.45 P .m.
SPECIAL TRAMS AND BUSES DIRECT TO RACECOURSE
CAULFIELD CUP BROADCAST
E. BYRON, Secretary,
198-200 Pitt Street, Sydney.
WH4
«
w
n
I think I’d like
a White Horse
better than anything”
r£
to remember
WHITE HORSE WHISKY
a joy to find again.
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR shout!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Some fine horses and several grand
performances were seen during the
four days of the AJ.C.’s spring car-
nival, which wound up at Randwick
on Saturday, but, beyond these, the
meeting will fill a niche in turf his-
tory as the occasion of the celebrated
sprinkler incident. On the Tuesday
night prior to the traditional Ladies’
Day some villain, for whom the
gendarmes were still searching at time
of writing, turned on the track
sprinkler system, use of which has
not been particularly necessary this
year. By Wednesday morning portion
of the track was hopelessly flooded,
and the meeting was postponed to
the Thursday.
Punters began poorly at the spring
meeting when all seven favorites were
beaten on the first Saturday, but
matters improved somewhat there-
after, with the rather better average
of eight successful favorites from (he
20 races decided over the remainder
of the meeting. On the Monday,
favorites who did the right thing were
Mighty Song in the Gimcrack Stakes,
Phalanx in the Shorts, and Count
Cyrano.
Mighty Song is another of those
extremely speedy Ajax fillies, one or
two of which have popped up every
year since Ajax’s first progeny were
seen in action. Leading all the way,
Mighty Song (her dam is Chanson)
won in a canter by half-a-dozen
lengths. Second was the Felcrag
filly Midcrag, just shading Magic
Carpet (Channel Swell-Virgin Wing).
As here anticipated, four-year-olds
filled the places in the Metrop., Count
Cyrano (W. Cook) finishing like a
really good ’un to down Sir Falcon
and Benvolo. Count Cyrano has
given some indifferent displays at
times, and actually only earned his
Metrop. favoritism with a last-minute
win at Rosehill the previous Wednes-
day, but if he holds the form he pro-
duced in the Metrop. he will rattle
any company he tackles.
The greybeards and the beardless
who are never done arguing as to
whether Carbine or Phar Lap was the
greatest horse to grace the Australian
turf should at least agree in approval
of Count Cyrano’s pedigree. Bred
at Ken Austin’s Inglewood Stud,
Kaiapoi (N.Z.), Count Cyrano is by
Battle Song (by Spion Kop, by Spear-
mint, by Carbine), while hts dam,
Raphis, was a full-sister to Phar Lap.
Raphis was never raced; Battle Song,
among many other victories, won the
Irish St. Leger by eight lengths.
Features of Thursday’s racing were
the first-rate Oaks trial turned in by
Mona’s Choice in taking the mile
Flight Stakes and the reassuring suc-
cess in the 10-furlongs Craven Plate
of Carbon Copy, who had been be-
ginning to give his Melbourne Cup
supporters some anxiety. Appro-
priately, for Ladies’ Day, the two
principal handicaps went to mares,
consistent Hisign taking the mile
Suburban and Persist the 12-furlongs
Sydney Handicap. Persist has taxen
a while to strike form, but has done
so at the right time to justify the
opinion that she is a definite possi-
bility among the more lightly-weighted
brigade in the Melbourne Cup.
Saturday, the final day of the
spring carnival, was worth attending
if only for the pleasure of seeing
Carbon Copy’s splendid exhibition of
stamina and faultless galloping in
winning the 2-miles Randwick Plate.
Run at standard weight-for-age, the
£2OOO Plate has a condition that the
prize will be halved unless the win-
ner clocks 3.35 or better. There was
no danger of that happening on
Saturday. The pace was on from the
start, with Cronides taking up the
running, Proctor sticking close behind
him to ensure that Cronides did not
gain too great a lead, and Carbon
Copy consequently forced to move
up near the front to keep an eye on
Proctor. However, Carbon Copy was
going so comfortably at the half-
mile that Sellwood (substituting for
Breasley) took him to the front at
that stage, and he galloped his way
to a six-lengths victory over Proctor,
with King’s Ransom a distant third.
The Golden Sovereign colt King’s
Coin earned himself a trip south for
the Victoria Derby with an astonish-
ing—almost freakish—win in the 10-
furlongs Clibbora Handicap for
three-year-olds. As the field of 11
runners approached The half-mile any
bookmaker would gladly have laid
100 to 1 against King’s Coin, and
even been ashamed to take the
money. The colt was stone-last, fully
eight lengths behind the second-last
horse, and going so poorly that there
seemed something amiss with him.
Still last as they entered the straight,
King’s Coin, however, gained a run
along the rails and finished like a,
Bernborough to win, running away,
from Dizzy and Field Boy.
* * * *
As the AJ.C. spring meeting con-
cluded at Randwick the V.A.T.C.
fixture got under way at Caulfield,
where next Saturday will see the run-
ning of the 1949 , Caulfield Cup.
Nothing noted at Caulfield impressed
as likely to oust Comic Court from
his well-earned position as one of the
warmest Caulfield Cup favorites on
record.
Comic Court did not race on
Saturday, and in his absence the best
Cup trial seen was that turned in by
Saxony in winning the mile Toorak
Handicap. Half-a-mile from home
Saxony appeared to have Buckley’s
chance of winning, but she finished-
on in devastating style to score by
two-and-a-half lengths from Chanak
and the favorite, Ungar. Last year,
too, Saxony won the Toorak, and
followed up by running fourth in the
Caulfield Cup and just beating Comic
Court for third money in the Mel-
bourne Cup, Of other Cup can-
didates in the Toorak, Lincoln
finished well and Comic Court’s
brother, Comedy Prince, ran/a fairly
even race, without, however, making
up much ground at the finish.
Other Caulfield Cup contenders
turned out in the Herbert Power
Handicap, run over the actual Cup
journey. Prominently close to the
leaders all the way, Dashing Beau
surprised by withstanding a strong
challenge from Clement to win by a
head, with Bruin third and favorite
Precedent a close fourth.
An ideal type, and with faultless
form, Comic Court looks a
thoroughly worthy favorite for the
Cup; it would be rather difficult to
choose anything confidently to beat
him other than by wishing on the
favorite a lot of ill-luck in the run-
ning. Of possible Sydney visitors,
trainer D. Lewis has a powerful team
in Vagabond, Foxzami, Proctor and
Thracian Lad, but at time of writing
it was not known which of these, if
any, is to contest the Caulfield Cup;
Proctor would possibly be the most
likely, and, on his Metropolitan run,
something .of a chance. However,
Comic Court’s toughest opponents
may be Red Fury, Saxony, St. Razzle,
Nilam and, of the lightweights, Chil-
peric.
The mile Caulfield Guineas saw the
Le Grand Due colt Iron Duke register
a sound Derby trial, though there
was, admittedly, very little between
four horses at the finish. Iron Duke
won by a half-head from Cragwill;
then it was a head to Regal Scout
and a further head to Dickens. The
speedy Regal Scout, of course, did
the pacemaking, and at the turn Iron
Duke was about midway back in the
field, but, gaining a lucky run, he
unwound a stunning finish. If there
was any hard-luck story to be told,
it was on behalf of the Sydney colt
Dickens, who, having his first ex-
perience of the southern way of going,
raced very greenly, and certainly lost
more ground than the margins by
which he was beaten.
* * * *
The Debutante Stakes for two-year-
old fillies and the Debutant Stakes
for their brethren each went to pro-
geny of Dhoti. Representing yet
another two-year-old winner for the
F. W. Hoysted stable. Apricot
(Dhoti-Two Vais) won the Debutante
from Ajanni, an Ajax filly who would
have hit the front in another few
yards, while closest of thirds was the
well-named Buttons And Bows, by
High Peak from Ornamental. The
Maribyrnong Trial winner, Ben Law,
started favorite among the colts and
geldings in the Debutant Stakes, but
was beaten pointless by Gallivant, a
very promising-looking son of Dhoti.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances); —
Youthful Stakes: Navigate, 1;
Magic Carpet, 2; Karangi, 3. Novice
Handicap: Star of the South, 1;
Dizzy, 2; Royal Reward, 3. George
Herdsman Stakes: Grey Boots, 1;
Phalanx, 2; Heroic Sovereign, 3.
Members’ Handicap: Dona Mar-
cheta, I; Heritor, 2; Chitral, 3. City
Tattersall’s Gold Cup; Snowstream,
1; Moneith, 2; Indian Chief, 3, The
Club Welter: Tynedale, 1; Star Vite,
2; Galway Bay, 3,
For the Caulfield Cup: Comic
Court, 1; Precedent, 2; Saxony, 3.
A matter of opinion.
Bowler Bill O’Reilly in his book
Cricket Conquest: —
“Quite often I heard that the
Australians had boosted up the per-
formances of these two men in the
hope that the selectors would choose
them for the Tests. In my experience
in cricket I have never known such a
foolish policy to be adopted, and 1
am quite certain it has never hap-
pened at any time since international
rrirket hppan ”
English captain Walter Hammond
in Cricket My Destiny: —
“On tour the best bowlers and
batsmen must be religiously pre-
served for the big games. If advis-
able, new ‘stars’ are kept more or
less in cold storage, so as to be able
to shine in devastating glory in the
Tests. On the other hand, it is cus-
tomary practice to flatter, in pre-
liminary games, a batsman or bowler
whose selection is desired and who is
already a probable for the opposing
Test side; and in the same way tour-
ing batsmen and bowlers are some-
times given instructions to ‘slaughter’
before his first Test appearance that
year an opponent whose inclusion is
feared.”
Either the English run to a low
cunning unsuspected by our chaps or
else O’Reilly is being a trifle naive.
* * * *
“Penalty”: There was a decided
Balkan atmosphere about the cricket
ground at Perth when the Yugoslav
Soccer team there made its first WA.
appearance. Slavs, Greeks, Italians
and odds and ends of the nationalities
of the lands around the Mediter-
ranean who have made W.A. their
home of late years and engaged in
wine - producing, market - gardening,
fish- and fruit-vending, etc., rolled
up to a man. They had the pleasure
of seeing the Slav team trounce the
Westralians to the tune of 14 goals
to one.
* * * *
“P. Cleek”: The decision of the
Royal and Ancient of St. Andrews
to reduce the penalty for lost or out-
of-bounds from stroke and distance
to distance only will cause a lot of
argument. On the face of it, the
advantage is to the “foxy” player.
Moving of “loose impediments” in
hazards, another innovation, was
probably forced by the habits of
people living near golf courses who
frequently use bunkers as rubbish-
tips. It’s tough to bunker a ball and
find it lying under a defunct cat
which, under the existing rule, apart
from other considerations, can’t be
touched. Putting out instead of
marking the obstructing ball on a
green (except in match play) will
speed the game up, and was overdue.
The new rules come into force on
New Year’s Day, and will be under
probation for two years.
* * * *
One rather wonders whether regular
patrons of Leichhardt Stadium go
along to see the stoush or merely to
lend vocal support to the almost
inevitable hooting of decisions. If
for the former reason, then they saw
a fairly good bout last week between
Billy Lord (9.8£) and Les Fuller
(9.13 i), with Fuller on the attack all
the way through, and, despite stop-
ping a few beauts in the 10th, hand-
ing out most of the punishment
noted. If the boys really attend for
the other reason, they were certainly
in good voice when the ref. gave
brother Lord the decision.


100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
OOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
■
mmm wmm •
mBS&
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwali Ft. Road, Five Dock,
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S 1 ' WIRE, WIRE NETTING
ETC.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
“Swayback” Cured.
“Archaps”; As the result of
investigations into trace-element
deficiencies in South Africa, not
one sheep in the coastal belt is
today suffering from “sway-
back,” according to Dr. I. S.
Perold, senior lecturer in bio-
logical chemistry at the Stellen-
bosch College of Agriculture.
Dr. Perold, who visited Australia
for the Adelaide and Canberra
conferences on plant and animal
nutrition, pointed out that, with
the idea of getting sufficient
copper into wheat-stubble to
make it suitable for sheep-graz-
ing, copper sulphate was applied
at the rate of 151 b. per acre of
wheat, with about 1501 b. of a
well-balanced chemical-fertiliser
mixture per acre. Although that
country was very poor wheat-
land, the wheat yield was in-
creased by about 70 per cent.,
and the stubble definitely con-
tained copper.
When the deficiency disease
was first discovered farmers
were advised to dose their sheep
with copper sulphate at the rate
of 0.2 gramme per sheep per
fortnight, which was a very
laborious process. They were
then advised to impregnate
crushed oats with copper sul-
phate dissolved in rainwater, and
when this was placed in troughs
in the field the problem was
solved. Application of copper
sulphate also cleared up a
“steely”-wool problem in' the
south.
When vegetable-growers on
the Cape Flats, near Cape Town,
were able to obtain sufficient
farmyard manure to apply from
20 to 25 tons per acre, plus
about 5001 b. of chemical ferti-
liser per acre, they had no
trouble with trace-element de-
ficiencies, but when, owing
largely to mechanisation, farm-
yard- (mainly horse-) manure sup-
plies decreased, they were soon
troubled with stunted growth.
Scientists found that a mangan-
ese deficiency was the cause, and
farmers were advised to use 151 b.
of manganese sulphate plus
4001 b. of a well - balanced
chemical fertiliser, plus from five
to seven tons of well-matured
farmyard manure per acre. This
cleared up the trouble.
On very calcareous soils —soils
with from 40 to 50 per cent, of
free limestone —farmers were
advised to use chemical fertiliser
and suitable farmyard manure
as recommended above, but to
omit the manganese sulphate and
to spray the young plants with a
solution of one-eighth to one-
quarter of commercial man-
ganese sulphate 10 to 40 days
after they appeared above the
ground.
Controlling Mastitis.
I
“J.R.D.”: Although penicillin
in a simple applicable form
offers dairyfarmers a reliable
treatment for mastitis, the ten-
dency to ignore all other aspects
of the disease is doing much
harm.
If a dairyman got a bad
attack of pneumonia he might
possibly fluke a cure by dosing
himself with penicillin, but his
first sensible impulse would be
to call in a doctor. Until we
are equally veterinary-conscious,
mastitis and other animal dis-
eases will flourish. In the past,
the cow-country was a goldmine
for the pedlar of cattle reme-
dies, often useless, so it is little
wonder that today even the most
efficient proprietary medicines
are regarded with deep suspicion.
Many butter factories and
dairy companies have revolu-
tionised animal health problems
by engaging qualified vets whose
service is available to factory
suppliers at a reasonable charge.
As a direct result of the educa-
tion thus given in prevention
and treatment of disease, in
nutrition and other matters, milk
production and quality have im-
proved tremendously and the
dairyman has learned to appre-
ciate the value of the vet.
Those who are outside such
schemes and who live many
miles from a vet. hesitate to
consult him because of the cost,
particularly where a large mile-
age is involved. They would
find it more economical in the
long run to get the vet. at once
than to attempt to treat the
animals themselves.
Mastitis may be present in
several forms. Though penicil-
lin in the correct dosage will
cure most cases, there may be
infected animals in the herd
which cannot be picked by the
layman and which remain to in-
fect others or to become acute
later. In short, the first essen-
tial to successful treatment is
correct diagnosis, and this can
only be done by an experienced
vet.
Scores of cases are on record
where mastitis has gone through
an entire herd and the owners
had no alternative but to get rid
of the lot. There are herds
where the owner knows that
many of his cows are affected
to a degree of being uneconomic,
yet he has not the moral courage
to call in the vet. because he
dreads the verdjct and what it
will entail. A topnotch cow can
lose a quarter through mastitis
and yet be worth retaining. But
in an ordinary cow, the loss of
that quarter may be a deciding
factor in her worth as a milker.
Hybrid Maize.
“Alba”: Chief thing about
hybrid maize is its yield—from
20 to 30 p.c. greater than that of
ordinary varieties. Other attri-
butes are its uniformity, excel-
lent standing ability and ease of
harvesting. All types of maize,
including field-corn, sweet-corn
and pop-corn, can be hybridised,
and seed can be bred for either
late or early maturity, and for
other characteristics such as
color of grain and height of
plant.
There is no short-cut to pro-
duction of the parent seed. As
with stock, the breeding must be
exact and scientific or the merits
for which it is bred are lost. In
some American States 95 p.c. of
the maize grown is hybrid, and
there is a rigid system of regis-
tration and supervision to en-
sure strain purity. At present
seed production is our main
problem; it may be some years
before Australian farmers can
buy as much hybrid as they want
from a wide range of seeds.
Big impetus to seed produc-
tion has been given by Don
Shand, of Armidale (N.S.W.),
first to produce hybrid seed com-
mercially in this country. In
America in 1945 he gained first-
hand knowledge of hybrid
maize, brought back a handful
of stud seed and started to
“If don't seem to be makin' much difference yet, Ma."
breed from it. A small com-
pany was formed to grow and
market the seed, and the 1948-49
crop produced enough to sow
thousands of acres.
After careful study Shand’s
company selected D. 5.28 for its
adaptability and hardiness. This
season the acreage of D. 5.28
will be increased to the maxi-
mum possible from the stocks
of parent seed. The production
programme has other hybrid
types in development and aims
at supplying home and overseas
demands.
Cauliflower Culture.
“Calo”: Early cauliflowers
should be planted in November,
those that mature in five months
in December, and late maturers
in January. Erfurt and Snow
White are good early types for
highlands and dry climates.
Nugget and Solid White for
moist districts. There are two
Special Giants, one takes five
months and one six. Types
which succeed in your climate
should be noted.
Alluvial flats are ideal soil,
but organic manures will make
poor soils suitable.
Good draining is essential.
Irrigation between rows is neces-
sary in dry spells. Plants should
be put out in rainy weather if
possible. Discoloration, furry
curd and grainy formation are
caused by drought and can be
avoided only if there is good
leaf-growth from the beginning.
The same applies to green leaf-
growth through the hearts, which
can be caused by spasmodic
watering.
To be profitable the early
varieties should be ready in
March and April. Don’t con-
fine the sowing to one or two
types; make a variety that will
meet seasonal changes,
The same ground should not
be used for successive cruciform
crops. Liming is important.
Soil-analysis is a guide. Half a
ton of lime should be worked
into a quarter acre, and loz. of
seed will produce sufficient plants
for such a plot if sown thinly
in drills 6in. apart. Root-prun-
ing beneath the soil improves
seedlings, if they’re well watered
after the operation. A solution
of nicotine sulphate is a good
disease-killer for seedlings, which
should be dipped in it before
planting. Rotation should be
early potatoes, caulies, then
legumes.
Foul Brood.
“N.A.C.”: “Don Drone” (B.
28/9/’49) does not appear to be
fully conversant with the facts
when he states that “at present
there is no compensation for
owners who are ordered to de-
stroy infected material.”
In N.S.W. a Bee Disease Com-
pensation Scheme has been in
operation for the past two or
three years. Many apiarists
whose hives have suffered the
dreaded infestation have received
benefits from the scheme, being
saved from total loss of their
assets.
Seed-gatherers.
“Bungle”: Heard two N.S.W.
North Coast farmers wondering
dolorously if dry-rot had set in.
The previous year one had
made the best part of £l5O from
paspalum seed by the simple
process of charging sd. for every
pound taken off by grass-seed
pickers. This year, what with
the lower prices ruling and
copious rain battering the heavy
seed-heads down, the nomadic
pickers would only spring him
a pound on his crop.
Seeded paspalum being of little
value as fodder, the farmer is
still on a good thing.
Evidence that the pickers are
making a good thing is the fact
that a number in the Richmond
River district hie from as far
south as Newcastle and appear
regularly each year. They roll
up with all kinds of home-
made contraptions for picking
the seed, both motorised and
horse-drawn, and a few of the
local youngsters have evolved a
gadget using manpower, but
which is still miles ahead of the
old hand-picking stunt.
Botulism.
“Mr.”: Apart from well-recog-
nised causes of the trouble like
bones and decomposing car-
casses, here are some other
spurces: Mouldy hay, chaff or
grain; mice-contaminated fod-
der ; tussocky grass or long
stubble trampled into a mat;
butts of stacks and cocky-chaff
left m paddocks after harvesting.
First symptoms are stiffness in
the front legs, difficulty in
gathering food, general lassitude
and drowsiness. Cud-chewing
ceases and a paralysed tongue
protrudes from the mouth.
At first signs drench with a
purgative of Epsom salts
bicarbonate of soda 40z., treacle
ilb. and a quart of water. Ad-
minister slowly or, if the patient
is unable to swallow, use either
a stomach tube or trocar and
cannula. The tube can be made
of a sft. length of yin. hose in-
serted through a hole in a
wooden gag tied in the mouth.
Hold the animal’s head and neck
straight, pass the tube over the
back of the tongue and down the
gullet; you can feel its progress
down the gullet on the left side
of the neck just above the wind-
pipe. Use a funnel to pour in
the drench. With the trocar and
cannula insert the trocar into the
rumen at a point equidistant
from the last rib, the point of
the hip and the edge of the loin
bones on the left flank. Re-
move trocar and pour in the
drench.
Tanning a Sheepskin.
“M.”: Soak the skin in salt
water (4oz. of salt to the gallon)
for 18 hours. This helps to pre-
serve it and prevent the wool
from pulling out. Scour the
wool with soap and water to
remove the grease, rinse well in
clean water, squeeze out excess
liquid and stretch the skin on a
frame. Use a blunt knife to re-
move meat and fat, place in a
cool shed and paint with a solu-
tion made up of 41b. of salt and
41b. of alum in 4gal. of water.
Allow partly to dry between
each of the five coats necessary
to tan the skin thoroughly.
A Gardener’s Nightmare.
“He-Ne”; It’s called A chatina
fulica, and it’s the biggest
snail in the world, 6in. long, as
large as a big orange and weigh-
ing about a pound. If the thing
got loose in Australia it would
make the rabbit damage a joke.
It eats anything growing, lives
for a year or more and leaves
the rabbit far behind as a multi-
plier,
A. fulica is getting into the
United States on salvaged war-
equipment from Pacific-island
jungles. The snail was first
found on Mauritius and began
to migrate about 100 years ago.
It was taken to India as a deli-
cacy and in 1900 was introduced


'THAT*
br=
»
£
The
responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS;
Ja/nes Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR
TRUSTEE
AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901
Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BP2-49
i
Write for particulars
and quotations
RAIN GAUGES
and
Meteorological Instruments
Standard Sin.
with brass rim,
measure.
Rain Gauge
container and
£3/16/-
Standard Sin. with same parts
£l/18/-
Also Barometers, Thermom-
eters, Hygrometers, Maximum
and Minimum Thermometers
and Recording Instruments.
ds
;.. - • .
42 HUNTEB STREET. SYDNEY.
INCREASED DEMAND *
INCREASED PRODUCTION
LOWER PRODUCTION COSTS
=PRICE
REDUCTION
.n'PHENOYIS’
Brand of Phenothlazine
Thenovis* has been reduced in price by sixpence
per pound. Lower production costs due to increased
demand has made it possible for the manufacturers
to pass this saving in costs on to graziers and farmers
throughout Australia. Remember
JCIA ‘Phenovis’—the effective remedy for gastro-
intestinal parasites.
dsf
FROM STORES, MERCHANTS AND PASTORAL HOUSES
XB6lB-H
VAK RABBIT FUMIGANT
CRYSTALS
No Plant —No Fumes Costs 1 Penny per Hole
Please despatch
2lb. tins at 9/- each Case 12 x 2 lb. 103/-
Blb. tins at 32/- each Case 12 x 8 lb. 370/-
(Post free ) (F.O.R. Sydney)
No C.O.D, Please add exchange.
j NAME 8.12/10/’49
(Print)
■ ADDRESS STATE ..
FLAK INDUSTRIES, 23 Addison Road, Marrickville, N.S.W.
For Sale.
LIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole
year, yields 2001 b. ; has 20ft. runners
loaded with large red tomatoes. Disease
and drought resistant. Sensation in
America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Kurnell, Sydney.
GUARD
Mtibk'Cts
PROTECTA
Till
Suitable for every type of business it record*
•I) Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for, full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
DUtributlni Agemtp~
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE .
PEBTU
w. c. tenfold & Co. Ply. Ltd.
, Norman Bros. Ply. Ltd.
, Vardon St Son» Ltd.
, Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
ELASTRATOR
ANTISEPTIC
RINGS
—HWBBOP’"
'-v. - ■ »..':‘v.
*»* ■?*
S& S&
>».-, "
SS<>*
'>S :
%
ggER. * ■■»
-
I
*KSSW
I#** v
A . ? , l'! ! '
are now in
FULL SUPPLY
We regret that production difficulties of a completely
new type of ring, and tremendous demand, have re-
sulted in so much inconvenience to graziers through
shortages. These difficulties have now been overcome,
a»d we expect to maintain ample supplies. Make
certain of your position by buying now—the new white
ELASTRATOR rings, stored according to directions,
will not deteriorate.
Full supplies now available from stock and station agents,
chemists and general stores.
25/- (plus postage) per box of 500
(REGD, TRADE MARK)
ANTISEP
RINGS
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY
266 Flinders Si., Melbourne, C.l.
NVII7
if you
WERE
THERE
Vouwelf
w
. ~JT 1
t -"
‘ V *
|i |<*.# •
&wl
• «>••• ♦♦♦•••••♦
... your wool could receive
BO greater attention, for A.M.L.&F. experts are at work
in your interests at every stage—valuing, 10/tting and
displaying your wool to the best advantage. You are
always assured of the best possible price when the
“A.M.L.&F. man** sells
your wool I
AMLI
A24.41
86 Yean In th« Stntice of the Man on the Land
YkC. IN ENGLAND, 1863.
, MERCANTILE, UNO & FINANCE COY. ITB.
4 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches—N.S.W.; Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra, Scone,
Moree, Oarah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Charleville, bt.
George, Cimnamulla, Dirranbandi. Agents: McPhie & Co..
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vtc.; Wodong^
AUSTRALIAN
to Ceylon, and by 1911 had
reached Singapore. In 1928 it
spread to Borneo and in 1933
to Sumatra, Java and Formosa,
The Japs cultivated them in
the Pacific Islands during the
war as food for themselves and
a fattener for poultry.
It’s alleged there are billions
of them in New Guinea (includ-
ing New Britain and New Ire-
land) and the Philippines.
In five years one A. fulica
could give rise to a population
of nearly 11,000,000,000.
They can withstand hard condi-
tions, go a long time without
food and water and survive when
many other life forms would
p American repo rts say many
t h ese giant snails got into
California on such war equip-
ment as jeeps, wagons and bull-
dozers. It is said they are
spreading from the U.S. Atlantic
seaboard unnoticed, and some
alarm is evident in the U.S.A.
It’s to be hoped the Australian
authorities know about this
snail and are watching for it.
Milk-fever.
“Foo”; “Myrrhee” (B.
14/9/’49) is barking up the
wrong tree by recommending
inflation of the udder for milk-
fever when borogluconate treat-
ment fails. No, right-thinking
person would consider risking
mastitis by either introducing
any instrument for inflation into
the teat or by thinking that a
piece of medicated gauze will
reduce or prevent the introduc-
tion of mastitis.
Use enough borogluconate.
The dose of l\oz. may be
ample for a prophylactic treat-
ment. For a cow actually down
or going down with milk-fever
a minimum of 4oz. should be
used. As it comes packed in
2\oz. packets I always use soz,
dissolved in about H pints of
boiling water. A most import-
ant point is that this solution
must be then reboiled until all
cloudiness has disappeared.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bill C.”: The heavy iron lift-
out lids of discarded ship’s tanks
make good water-trays for the
fowl-run. They hold a nice drop
of water, are easy to clean, pre-
sent no risk to very small chicks,
and are not readily overturned.
“Wilco”: Annoying tapping
sounds in your radio reception
may be caused by portion of the
aerial striking the house wall.
This fault occurs with the popu-
lar inverted L-type of aerial —
a horizontal wire passing over
the house to come down verti-
cally beside the wall —and it may
be rectified by tightening up the
aerial, afterwards resoldering
the down portion.
“K.T.”: The hens which are
last to go to roost at night and
first off the perch of a morning
are usually the most profitable
layers. This foraging denotes
vigor, whereas those which con-
stantly mope about the houses
lack constitution and should be
culled. Late-roosting hens
generally make excellent
breeders.
“8.A.1.”: Pumpkins, melons,
squashes, cucumbers and chokos
can be planted in October and
November. Chokos can be
transplanted, but seeds of the
cucurbits should be planted in
rows 4ft, 6in, apart with 4ft.
between the seed hillocks. Plant
three or four seeds in each hole
and pull out weak plants.
Squashes and marrows mature
in two months, cucumbers re-
quire a little longer, melons take
over four months, pumpkins
three to four. Soil should be
sandy loam with leaf-mould or
manure well dug in. Plenty of
water is required. Keep weeds
down between rows and cut back
long leaders to encourage side-
shoots,
“Milo”: Much disappointment
and loss are caused by planting
trees and vines in soils that are
not suited to their growth. This
could easily be avoided by send-
ing a portion of the soil, with
description of aspect and drain-
age, to the State Department of
Agriculture for analysis and
advice.
“Nubis”: To protect piles
from white-ants pour into the
hole a gallon or so of wash from
the sheep-dip before inserting the
post. Make a shallow depression
around each hole. If the depres-
sion is filled with wash each year
after dipping, the termites will
neV er reach the posts.
“W. Court”: When preparing
tQ gQW seed or transplant seed-
j- with dry times ahead, put
the j h down well and work
* d loose tilth The
* 9
deeper the'plants can root the
better they will grow in dry
weather. Fresh horse-manure
only dries out the soil in a
drought, but old manure assists
in conserving moisture. Arti-
ficial fertilisers are likely to re-
main inert in dried-up soil, or
may even injure the crop unless
there is plenty of water.


.
Tlhe Best duMe
dsf
Most great racehorses are at their best between 3 and
5 years old— or up to 6 years for Sprinters — with
notable exceptions.
Geldings are sometimes exceptions — such as Amounis,
who won the Caulfield Futurity Stakes as a 7 year old
and the Caulfield Cup as an 8 year old — and Mollison,
who won £26,249 in stakes as a 2 and 3 year old and
then faded out.
But Ajax, High Caste, Peter Pan, Heroic, Eurythmic,
for example, were great as 3 year olds, great as 4 year
year olds, and great as 5 year olds.
Unlike racehorses, whisky never enters
its prime until over 5 years old. Not
until then does it attain fine bouquet
and mellow flavour. Corio Special is
aged for over five years (more than double the
minimum set by Commonwealth law).
Corio Special
Whisky at its prime.
CI6/16
Public Notices.
I, VASSILIA TZANIDAKIS, of Greek
nationality, bom at Smyrna, Turkey, and
resident 24-J years in Australia, now re-
siding at 226 Palmer Street, East Sydney,
N.S.W., Intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948.
I, HELEN CARKAGIS, of Greek nation-
ality, born at Rizes Arcadia, Greece, and
resident two years in Australia, how re-
siding at 27 Francis Street, East Sydney,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
Divorce Notice.
TO WILLIAM JAMES HARTCHER late
of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that OLIVE
MARIA HARTCHER has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2184 of 1949 in the
Supreme Court of N.S.W. (Federal Juris-
diction) on the grounds of your desertion
for 3 years If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Office Supreme Court Sydney by 9th De-
cember 1949 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from C. W.
ROBINSON, Solicitor, of 74 Pitt Street,
Sydney.—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE — MARINE — ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 18T8
Head Office: U7 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN C. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
KUCHING’S
TRAVEL GOODS
SPECIALISTS
B
A
6 a *
Consult us for
all your
Travelling Requisites
C. E. KUCHING
PTY. LTD.
319 George Street
SYDNEY
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture suffere
entirely new method of control, tn
result of 40 years’ practice and tm-
provements, proved completely s
cessful by all who have tried ,«•
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the onfl •
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity-
Write today for FREE LITERATUR •
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26m), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Health Turned! On
By “COL M.”
“CTO Bertie the Germ crawled
along, chuckling to him-
self, scratching with his cork-
screw walking-stick, looking for
somewhere to start his nasty
work. Then he spied over his
shoulder something that made
him shake in his shoes. Sammy
Soap had c0me.....”
A lot of water has gone down
the sink since then; Sammy
went out in ’32, but I
think I have the story right.
The lady who so often told it
also taught me to count, up to
thirty-two, which was the num-
ber of times one’s jaws had to
champ on anything before she
reckoned it fit for swallowing.
Later in life I remember being
in a Latin class at school. Pop-
eye had just taken to the seas
with his cargo of spinach. It
was then that a language-
master fought through with the
only piece of Latin I can quote
today:—
Popeye.
Popoculus nauta sum,
Popoculus nauta sum,
Pugnabo ad finem
Cum edero spinem,
Popoculus nauta sum.
And that, apart from keeping
an eye on what Paul de Kruif
has to say in the “Digests,” sums
up my health education. How-
ever, my bliss of ignorance is
threatened. If certain authori-
ties have their way I shall shortly
be unable to maintain this claim.
On October 21 the Very goes
up for a seven-day barrage of
health information to be fired
at the public of N.S.W. With a
view to an uprising against wogs
of undesirable guernsey, it will
be the 28th annual rebel-
lion of its kind, but for the
first time in history it is to be
known as “Radio” Health Week.
Most of us normally are not
biased against health —but that
word “Radio”! Even salt-
water-drinking fanatics must
view the coming stunt with a
little apprehension.
Consider this: Where, in the
past. Health Week has meant
physical-culture displays in the
city, and photographs in the
daily Press of young human
Clydesdales drinking milk, this
year every radio-station in
N.S.W. has been asked to help,
and, at the time of writing, most
of ’em said that they would.
For the benefit of any citizen
who might unwittingly be hit
by a stray, this is what is in
store.
Recordings have been made
of 48 different one-minute health
talks to be “plugged” during
normal radio programmes, to-
gether with 36 different one-
minute “health hints,” This will
be merely the low-calibre pat-
tern ; there is heavy artillery in
the form of scripts for a set of
54 talks, five minutes each, to
be sent to all N.S.W. stations.
Under the baton of Mr. Sully,
the Sydney New Symphony
Orchestra has studied Maurice
Francis’s special “Health Week
Song.” Its recording, at the time
of writing, was imminent.
Feelers have been put out to
radio-stations asking for a little
Health Week “plug” with every
announcement of the time. An
attempt is to be made to have
those stations which feature a
weekly play to substitute a
health play for the occasion,
“Typhus” and “The Life of
Louis Pasteur” being nominated.
And, for the kiddies, the chair-
man of the Health Week com-
mittee has stated that he recently
listened to the serial “Superman”
and thought it ideal for the in-
troduction of a health theme.
At a meeting planning the
Week, the chairman was asked
if this year’s physical-culture dis-
plays in the city might be broad-
cast, and replied that the idea
was a good one, mentioning that
Ministers of the Crown would
be giving daily addresses at the
display. One of the committee
suggested (a ray of hope here)
that certain radio personalities
would be more popular and suc-
cessful.
That, apart from an ominous
announcement by the Police
Department that it would fully
co-operate in the scheme, is
about the lot; but I’d say it’s
plenty.
To get a campaign like this
rolling there were, of course,
some snags, for apart from a
£2OO Government grant/ Health
Week depends on outside sup-
port. Various commercial con-
cerns had to be approached.
The question came up at com-
mittee meetings as to whether
the wine people, whose pro-
grammes have large radio net-
works, would be suitable spon-
sors for health broadcasts. This
was batted around for a while,
and then the suggestion was
made that if anything could be
worked out, St. Paul could be
quoted in such programmes:
“....Take a little wine for thy
stomach’s sake.”
Their order of battle complete,
the Health Week planners were
able to sit back and rub their
hands to this effect:
“No matter what station the
public turns to there would be
numerous references —subtle or
otherwise —in radio programmes.
This would create an intense
health - consciousness amongst
listeners, and the campaign must
have far-reaching results....
There can be no doubt that a
campaign of this nature will
make a tremendous impact on
the community Few indi-
viduals would escape the health
messages that would invade their
homes from every radio-station
during that week.”
When it is all over, and the
wounded have been counted, a
comprehensive report of the
whole show may be prepared
and forwarded to overseas health
authorities. It is believed that
such a report would be likely to
create intense interest overseas
and “gain valuable publicity for
Australia.” And for you folk
living outside N.S.W. broadcast-
ing range there is already talk
of a National “Radio” Health
Week next year. “Har! ” your-
selves !
Well, there it is. The “Radio”
Health Week slogan is “Citizens,
Protect Your Birthright.” I
think I’ll leave it at that. I’m
going out now to wind-in my
aerial.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Australia Re-
claimed by William Hatfield. —4700.
To. buy copy of All-about by
Mary and Elizabeth Durack. —4699.
Information Sought.
Where can seeds of the Kentia
paint, cultivated on Lord Howe
Island, be obtained in Sydney?
Kentia-palm seeds are sold by the
Lord Howe Island Board of Control,
Chief Secretary’s Dept., Sydney.
However, no further seeds are avail-
able for sale until March or April,
1950. the prices of Kentia-palm
seed for 1950 will be: Kentia fors-
leriana, £3 10s. per bushel; Kentia
belmoreana, £5 per bushel; Kentia
canterburyana, £8 per bushel; and
Kentia moreii, £4 per 1000 seeds.
* * *
Who was “ W.H.,” the person to
whom the sonnets of Shakspeare were
dedicated by the publisher?
The identity of this person, called
“the onlie begetter” of the sonnets,
is not known, although William
Lord Herbert (later the Earl of Pem-
broke) and Henry Wriotheslay, Earl
of Southampton, Shakspeare’s early
patron, to whom Venus and Adonis
(1593) and The Rape of Literece
(1594) were addressed by the poet,
have both been suggested as likely
people.
* * * *
How did the phrase “to eat humble
pie ” originate ?
Here “humble” is a pun on
“umble,” the umbles being the heart,
liver and entrails of the deer, the
huntsman’s perquisites in olden days.
When the lord and his household
dined the venison pasty was served
on the dais, but the umbles were
made into a pie for the huntsman
and his fellows, who took the lower
seats.
* * * *
A few particulars about the English
poet Robert Herrick?
Born in 1591 and died in 1674, he
was one of the “Sons of Ben,” or
poets who followed in the tradition
of Ben Jonson. Herrick’s poetry is
graceful, lyrical and charming,
marked by delicate, pictorial imagery
culled from nature, rustic scenes and
court life, broadly influenced by the
Latin classic poets. He was a country
vicar in Devonshire until 1647, when
he was ejected by the Puritans for
his Royalist principles.
* * * *
What, is a morganatic marriage?
A marriage between a mart'of high
rank (usually royal) and a woman of
inferior station, by virtue of which
she does not acquire the husband’s
rank and neither she nor the children
of the marriage are entitled to inherit
his title or possessions; often called
a “left-hataded marriage,” because the
custom is for the man to pledge his
troth with his left hand instead of
the right. An instance of morganatic
marriage in the British Royal Family
is that of George, Duke of Cam-
bridge (1819-1904), cousin of Queen
Victoria and uncle of Queen Mary,
who married morganatically in 1840.
His children took the surname Fitz-
George.
* * * *
When was the Battle of Jutland
fought, what were the losses on both
sides in ships 'and men, and the
result ?
It was fought, May 31-June 1,
1916, in the North Sea, off Jutland
Peninsula, between the German
battle-cruiser and High Seas fleet,
under Admirals von Scheer and von
Hipper, respectively, and the British
battle-cruiser and Grand fleets, under
Admirals Beatty and Jellicoe, respec-
tively. The Germans lost 11 out of
110 vessels engaged, with 2863 officers
and men; the British 14 out of 149
vessels, with 6617 officers and men.
The German fleet retired after the
battle and left the British in undis-
puted control of the North Sea.
* * * *
What was the Sacco-Vanzetti case ?
A famous court case in the early
1920’s in which two Italian-born
radicals, Nicola Sacco and Bartolo-
meo Vanzetti, were arrested, tried and
convicted for murder committed
during a payroll robbery by a gang
of bandits in South Braintree, Massa-
chusetts (U.S.A.). The evidence was
considered flimsy, and a world-wide
protest was raised on the charge that
the two men were the victims of
injustice, but they were finally
executed in 1927. The case inspired
several literary works, including Jus-
tice Denied in Massachusetts, a poem
by Edna St. Vincent Millay; Boston,
a novel by Upton Sinclair; Firehead,
a narrative poem by Lola Ridge;
and Winterset, a play by Maxwell
Anderson.
* * * *
V/hat is the world’s deepest cave?
In May, 1947, a party of French
scientists reported that, after 48 years
of exploration, the labyrinth of oaves
known as Dent de Crolles, near
Grenoble, had been penetrated to its
furthest depth. The caverns extended
3193 feet into a 6776 feet peak in
the Claude Chartreuse range. 70 feet
deeper than the Great Hole of Preta,
Italy, formerly regarded as the
world’s deepest cave
* * * *
How was the former Australian
merchantman Jervis Bay lost?
As a lightly-armed merchant-cruiser,
on November 5, 1940, she was escort-
ing a convoy when a powerful raider,
supposed to have been either the
Deutschland or Admiral Scheer, both
Nazi pocket-battleships of 10,000
tons, was sighted. The Jervis Bay
drew out from the convoy and made
straight for the enemy. Outranged,
she was crippled at once, and, in
flames, fought the battleship for more
than half-an-hour. Many of her crew
were killed at their light guns, and
Commander Fogarty Fegen carried
on after his arm was blown off. Her
shells were hitting the Germans just
before she went down. Meantime,
the convoy had scattered. One or
two could not escape the big salvos,
but 33 merchant ships and thousands
of lives were saved by Fogarty
Fegen’s gallant action. He was
awarded the Victoria Cross post-
humously.
Brief Answers.
F.E.R.: Suggest that you get seeds
from friends at either Bowen, Towns-
ville or Rockhampton, and raise
plants yourself. The Advisers in
Horticulture at the Departments of I
Agriculture and Stock at either
Rockhampton or Bowen might help..
R.E.: The company went out of
existence in 1858. Cannot say who
now holds its records. Suggest that;
you try the British Museum, Blooms-
bury, London G.R.D.: All syn-;
thetic leathers are liable to crack, as 1
they have not the resilience and co-
hesion of animal leathers. Keep in
the shade as much as possible when
not driving. Rub frequently with
pore saddle-soap on a woollen cloth
and wipe clean and dry with a fresh
cloth... .W.AJ.: The Right Road
for Britain (6d), published by the
Conservative and Unionist Central
Office, London J.C.T.: Write
Under-Secretary, Dept, of Agricul-
ture, Sydney V.P.: The book is
obtainable from Robertson and
Mullens, Ltd., 107 Elizabeth-street,
Melbourne F.E.8.: A. F. Wilding
(N.Z.) and Norman E. Brookes
(Aust.) played as Australasia in the
1914 Davis Cup matches. A. B.
Jones was reserve for Australasia in
1912, and played against U.S.A. at
New York with S. N. Doust in 1913,
beating McLoughlin and Hackett
1.M.G.: In order to qualify for an
invalid pension a claimant must be
85 p.c. incapacitated for work. It is
open for you to make application
for a pension, which, if granted,
would be made available at a reduced
rate... .H.M.C.: The word “soccer”
was originally university slang, and
is from “Assoc.,” short for [Football]
Association, the name of the organi-
sation that sponsored and controlled
this type of football S.H.; Mer-
cer’s Poison Plants, Anderson’s Trees
of N. S. Wales, Maiden’s Useful
Native Plants of Australia, Francis’s
Australian Rain-forest Trees, Ewart’s
Flora of Victoria and Black’s Flora
of South Australia. .. .W.K.: For
particulars of the Australian Drama-
tists’ Festival for Playwrights write
Miss Maie Hoban, Pilgrim Theatre,
East Melbourne, Vic.


Crusader
Sf
11 U k
VTA
ik
Minns ho aavj ox H3A3N "aa
NYHVnO
Better for School Books
They stand the rough
and tumble. They're lighter
and easier to carry.
Ask first for
ds
fds
fds
ds
SCHOOL C
r MAor ffy
FORD SHFRIMGTON LTD.
Commonwealth
f
of Australia
Attorney-General’s
Legal Service Bureaux
The Legal Service Bureaux established as part of the
Commonwealth Attorney-General’s Department in 1942
perform the service of advising without charge for the
benefit of ex-servicemen and ex-servicewomen and also
their dependants.
The Bureaux work in very close conjunction with
ex-servicemen’s associations. Advisings are given
especially in connection with claims under the
Re-establishment and Employment Act.
Any ex-serviceman, ex-servicewoman or dependant
concerned is entitled to place his problem before the
Bureaux and receive advice free of charge. The
Bureaux advise either personally or by letter.
In addition the services of Bureaux officers are avail-
able in relation to old age, invalid and widows’ pensions
and Commonwealth unemployment and sickness
benefits.
Addresses throughout the Commonwealth are:—
4th Floor, Mercantile Mutual
Building
117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone BW 1852
C.M.L. Building
72 HUNTER STREET
NEWCASTLE
Telephone B 1597
Saxon House
450 LITTLE COLLINS STREET
MELBOURNE
Telephone MU 9194
Epworth Building
55 PIRIE STREET, ADELAIDE
Telephone Central 6417
A.N.A. House
ST. GEORGE’S TERRACE, PERTH
Telephones: B 6511, B 4797
Crown Solicitor’s Office
COMMONWEALTH OFFICES,
WEST BLOCK, CANBERRA
Telephone 631
T. and C. Building
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
Telephone B 9124
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
A.W.C. Building
CLEVELAND ST„ TOWNSVILLE
Telephone 1972
Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney Building
EAST STREET. ROCKHAMPTON
Telephone 3169
Police Building
FRANKLIN WHARF, HOBART
Telephone Central 6658
Deputy Crown Solicitor’s Office
BENNETT STREET, DARWIN
Telephone 166
H. V. EVATT,
Attorney-General of the Commonwealth.
Missing Friends.
WOULD CHARLES SEATON TANNER,
or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
communicate with CON DEMETRIE,
Solicitor, 486 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
regarding an interest under the will of
ARTHUR JAMES TANNER, late of North-
cote Street, Northcote.
TO WINIFRED MARGARET DRUMMY
formerly of 14 Warren Road Mordialloc
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your husband JAMES
THOMAS DRUMMY has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for a divorce on
the ground of desertion Unless you enter
an appearance in the Office of the Pro-
thonotary in the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria at the Law Courts William Street
Melbourne on or before the Twelfth day
of November 1949 the case may proceed in
your absence If you intend to defend the
suit you must also file an answer in the
said office on or before the Twenty-second
day of November 1949.—E. P. PREN-
DERGAST, Solicitor, 118 Queen Street,
Melbourne.
TO KEVIN THOMAS JOSEPH DEMP-
SEY formerly of Rosebery Alexandria
Bellevue Hill and Paddington Sydney
mechanic. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
JEAN DEMPSEY has instituted proceed-
ings against you for divorce on the
ground of desertion for three years and
upwards Unless you enter an appearance
in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme
Court of Victoria William Street Mel-
bourne on or before the Fifteenth day of
November 1949 the case may proceed in
your absence and you may be ordered to
pay costs If you Intend to defend this
case you must file an answer in the said
office on or before the Twenty-second day
of November 1949. —WILLIAM MURRAY,
Solicitor, 469 Chancery Lane, Melbourne.
HUNTER
CIGARETTES
a
m
it
sgjS
mm
Sffl)
Hi
H
m
I
■
NTER
HU
i
m
m
ass
m
ss
DISTRIBUTORS MAURICE NEWSTEAD PTY. HD. «<■ CASTLEHEAGH STREET. SYDNEY
SPECIAL OFFER!
a
AZUR
ff
NEW FOLDING CAMERA
• 4.5 lens
• 1/25, 1/50, 1/100, 1/150, B and T
dsf
• Front lens focussing
• 8 pictures on 620 film
£7/196
Send Money Orders, Cheque or Postal Notes. Immediate Despatch.
<p
11 11 1 11 1 111 11 1 11 1 • f I If 1 11 11 11 1 11 11 1
tm/if fAe
emffi f/py,..
Simple richness and efficiency
these are the qualities
that characterise FYNE-
POYNT propelling and
repelling pencils. In rolled
gold or sterling silver, a
FYNE-POYNT executive’s
pencil is a writing instru-
ment for lifetime satisfaction.
Make it individually yours
by engraving your name on
the smooth panel provided.
FYNE-POYNT pencils are
stocked by stationers, jewel-
lers and stores, price 57/6.
m-
PENCILS
- ■ ■——— - —' - 6 / 129
MABIE TODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., 255 A GEORGE ST., SYDNEY
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability ts undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
A.G.K. and T.J. (England): We
want an Australian flavor and we
don’t reprint..R.J.V.: Verse thin
and humor arch 8.C.: Call again.
Also Ran: The verse also ran;
send some more prose C. 8.: Not
the buttercups; not your pal the
dog; nor yet the impeccable moral
sentiments... .Balcatta: It’s been said
by everyone who ever rode a horse
fifty years ag0....M.H.: “I’m one
of those people who keep a few
fowls.” If you want to write poetry,
perhaps you should switch to canaries.
P.R.E.: Whatever you wanted to
say about that pheasant, you haven’t
said it V.A.W.: “I daily cares
erase.” Erase that line... .J.K.M.:
Can’t you find anything in Australia
to amuse you? A.N.: Alas, what
boots “Boot’s Baudeville”?
8.J.M.: Pedestrian metres and anti-
quated style... .L.K.8.: Might suit
a woman’s paper A.H.C.: “Sur-
veyors” not far off. Too flat and
wordy... .M.M.H.: The usual collec-
tion of irreproachable clichds
H.S.K.: “Why choose a vulture, not
a dove?” Well, a vulture might
make a more interesting rhyme than
that staid old domestic pair “love”
and “dove”... .L.P.: “I have only
been writing for seven months. Do 1
show any promise?” Only if you are
now seven months old M.S.: But
if she were abolished you wouldn’t be
able to write the poem E.M.M.: “I
was reading (and fell asleep) Henry
Lawson’s rhymes.” Tut J.W.:
More suitable for its occasion than
for us P.R,: “Codicil” came close.
Bellerive: Appropriate, now that
the swimming season has opened:
. ...E.J.T.: A very bumbling bee
A.R.M.: Who put the water in your
inkwell?... .A.C.P.: Not all the dots,
dashes and exclamation-marks can
bring it to life... .A.M.S.: “I am
your Australian koala bear.” And a
darned good poem, too, for a koala
bear Sea-gem: Jingly A.E.S.:
The bird-song poem has a clumsy
refrain and needs more detail....
M.J.F.: Old stuff....L.V.A.: If you
are going to mutter incomprehensibly
in a private language you might as
well write it in Chinese D.M.H.:
“Tired” isn’t a very good rhyme for
“pride,” you know J.K.: Now
we know what killed the moon
O. : Polish the cat and send it back.
. ...C.J.T.: Not a bad effort, but
melodramatic Araluen: “Strenuous
round passing fair” —can’t you
get away from those old tags?
A.J.: Fair enough for his age, but
not for us A.D.: Technique in-
adequate to express your genuine
feeling for the sea. Try short stories.
J.McK.: Even if he does kiss
immigrants you really mustn’t swear
at Mr. Calwell... .8.H.: The “veto-
Tito” rhyme is amusing; the rest
thin 8.W.: Thanks for sending
“Edwardian Eulogy,” but you’d better
see if you can get it sung in Parlia-
ment M.L.: Too frail for us
P. : Not a hope B.B,: “I long
for the treeless plains.” And until
your handwriting improves you really
might as well be out there... .P.F.:
All very vague Tok R.: Books
are reviewed on their merits, irrespec-
tive of geography. “Barribup” has
us puzzled... .P.O’L.: You should
think twice before taking full respon-
sibility for “King’s Cross”
M.E.N.; The best thing you can do
with “The Billy” is to boil it....
E. : No, it would take more than
“attending to the punctuation” to
make that publishable F.L.: A
mere derangement of words
F. The man who does the
“Answers to Correspondents” is
large, trained in unarmed combat
and keeps a waddy at the side of
his desk. Do not call on him
C.A.: Nine long poems in violet ink
declined... .D.M.: Do not feel justi-
fied in helping you on your proposed
wild career... .P.T.: Nothing re-
markable about your poem but the
copperplate handwriting, which is
surprisingly g00d... .8.R.; It ambles
along gracefully enough, but it does
not arrive anywhere A. 8.: Rea-
sonably well written, but not suited
for The Bulletin W.F.McA.:
“Iceland Poppies” shall not bloom in
these columns 8.R.H.: The basket
has swallowed it... .D.R.C.: For
Heaven’s sake space your copy more
generously. Copy-paper is cheaper
than sub-editors’ eyes.
RHYME OF THE WHITE SHARK.
The most horrid fiend
Of the splashing deep,
Which eager for prey
Thro’ the waters sweep.
Merciless and crafty,
A object in view.
The horrid white shark
Will swiftly pursue.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Socialism
If ever a Government had some
accounting to do it is the Chifley concern,
and not only to the upper- and middle-
classes, but, also, to the working-classes.
More to the last-named, perhaps, because
the Socialists have robbed them of one
of their most valuable assets —the will
to work. With that will to work goes
the urge for self-sufficiency, for indepen-
dence and for honesty of purpose.
What has the Australian left to him in
return for the things he has surrendered,
bit by bit, over the last eight years?
Social services—and proud of ’em, say
the Socialists. For the mess (and what
a mess!) of pottage called social security
we have surrendered our birthright as
a free people. We are burdened with
taxes such as never existed before; pro-
duction is falling day by day because
workers can see no future but social bene-
fits, free medicine and free doctors ; we
have strikes and go-slow tactics along
with rising wages that buy less for every
increase. All that from the “working-
man’s” Government.
Socialists will never admit that wealth
comes only from production and that
production comes only from work. With-
out work there can be no wealth and
without wealth there can be no Golden
Age and no social security.
Unless the Chifleys and the Attlees and
the Crippses are ousted the Empire which
took more than 200 years to reach its
zenith will have taken a lot less than
200 months to take the count. Already
Victoria’s dazzling crown is a sad-looking
remnant in Uncle Sam’s pop-shop, and
what little we have left will also be there
after another term of office for Socialism.
—Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Voice of Labor?
In the Federal House T. F. Williams
(Lab., N.S.W.), stated unequivocally that
bank-nationalisation would become an
issue only if this or some future Govern-
ment held a referendum.
Addressing trade-unionists at Perth,
on September 26, Federal Minister for
Transport Ward just as emphatically
affirmed that “once the Labor movement
had decided as a whole the private banks
should be nationalised, they would be,
and nothing could stop it.”
Over to Canberra again; During ques-
tion-time on September 28, the Prime
Minister was asked to verify whether
Ward had made such a statement. Apart
from saying it was not the Government’s
intention to hold a referendum on bank-
nationalisation or any other question at
the forthcoming Federal election, the
P.M. ingenuously disclaimed responsi-
bility for anything Ward might have said
on the subject, and assured his questioner
that Labor would stick to the letter of
the Constitution as interpreted by the
High Court or, in the final resort, the
Privy Council!
I think electors will accept Mr. Ward’s
statement as the voice of Labor no matter
how reassuringly the doves at Canberra
may warble.— Agag (Tas.).
Exchange Juggling
Cripps, Chifley and a few more of the
“chosen” apparently congratulate them-
selves on the secrecy maintained on the
devaluation of sterling. Importers of
goods from the U.S.A. would be entitled
to characterise that secrecy as little less
than confidence trickery.
Many Australian merchants received,
and disposed of, U.S.A. merchandise just
before devaluation took place. Now,
when it comes to footing the bill, they
find that the value of the £A is a shade
only over two dollars. Where the im-
ports concerned were capital expendi-
ture it will be possible to pass on the
whole, or part, of the cost to the public.
For instance; A firm imported £lO,OOO-
- of printing-machinery, which
landed a few days before devaluation.
That machinery—from U.S.A.—will have
to be paid for in a dollar equivalent of
approximately £13,000.
There are booksellers in every capital
city in Australia who had landed essential
university and technical text-books. These
importers are in worse plight because the
books were sold at the pre-devaluation
rate and, in the case of universities and
schools, a special discount allowed. But
the booksellers’ New York bills will have
to be met with a depreciated currency.
Those examples could be multiplied many
times by importers of any form of mer-
chandise from U.S.A.
If the planners of our economy exer-
cised some foresight it would have been
possible—and ethical—to have given at
least a month’s notice before devaluation
came into force. That would have
enabled most importers of goods from
U.S.A. either to pass on the extra costs
or meet their bills at the former rate of
exchange.— Dives (Tas.).
Work, Work, Work
Mr. Menzies’s suggestion that we
“work our way out” of the difficulties
into which Communism, moral and
physical apathy and the devaluation of
sterling are leading us won’t be popular
with the average Australian wage-earner.
It is the only way, however, and until the
worker is ready to redeem himself by
doing a fair day’s work for a fair day’s
pay his margin of earnings over costs of
living will remain insignificant. Indeed,
should the practice of paying him more
lor doing less continue, the gulf between
the true value of his wages and the price
of goods must widen to the point when
his real standard of living or economy
degenerates to that of a man in normal
circumstances working roughly half-time
for half-pay.
Labor has fallen easy victim to the
theory of radicals and the pretence of
self-promoting politicians that socialisa-
“I Mas thinking of putting on a verandah some time.”
tion of industry actually increases produc-
tion when, in fact, the experiences and
statistics of nations who have tried it
prove that the incentive to produce under
socialisation decreases while costs soar
proportionately. Russia’s amazing pro-
ductive recovery after Stalingrad (fre-
quently quoted as an achievement of
socialisation) was attained by regimenta-
tion ; forced labor on a huge and brutal
scale, augmented by lease-lend aid from
capitalist countries. And where has
socialisation brought Britain but to the
brink of bankruptcy?
National prosperity is not measured by
rates of pay or lengths of working hours,
but to an enormous extent by the will of
the individual to benefit himself and his
family by his own industry. Neither the
manipulation of international rates of ex-
change nor political doctrines (poisonous
or otherwise) raise the wage-earner’s
standards of living one iota —he has no
other choice but to forget Promised Lands
and Golden Ages and to roll up his
sleeves. —P. O. M, C. (N.S.W.). '
Machine v. Craft
“Economist” is badly bushed on the
issue of machines versus handcrafts (B.
7/9/’49). What is a craftsman, anyhow?
A woodworker who uses a pedal-lathe is
not necessarily less skilled than one who
does the same job by hand.
In the metal trade particularly, I have
seen men who worked very costly and
very complicated machines, but who were
craftsmen in the best sense of the word.
Pride of work is not so much a matter
of hand-craft as of handling a product
right through a shaping process. It is
division of labor, not machinery, that
makes for drudgery. Unless you have an
unusual imagination, it is hard to take
much pride in a car you’ve only put one
bolt in.
Shovelling sand is a skilled craft, as
anyone can verify by moving a few tons.
I even knew a chap who enjoyed it —an
Italian who sang grand opera while he
loaded record tallies. But he would have
been just as happy driving a steam-shovel.
Enjoyment of work is mostly consti-
tutional, and is not given to many of
us in any vocation. It is more intelligent
to value a job as a means than to regard
it as an end, — Robert Howie (W.A.).
Culture
The Education Department of S.A. is
trying to do something about adding
“culture” to the school curricula (B.
21/8/ ’49). It has appointed in the
Adelaide metropolitan area four “demon-
strators in music,” who will work the
rounds of city and nearer country schools
in an effort to cultivate in young minds
an appreciation of something better than
the “Hit Parade.” The appointees—
young and enthusiastic musicians with
something of the Crusader spirit—will
be responsible to a director and will each
have his own territory. They will be
responsible for ■ the co-ordination and
direction of school musical bodies, chiefly
choirs. The immediate object is to lift
such activity above the level to which it
has sunk over the last few years.—
Karrimba (S.A.).
Price of Tin
I’d like to spike a few authorities who
are claiming that the increase in the
price of tin, following devaluation, will
cause an increase in tinned-food prices.
An increase from £8569 to £S7SO
per ton i§ equivalent to almost exactly
2s. per pound in Australian money. The
amount of actual tin in tinplate is so small
(tinplate is about 98 per cent, steel) that
with modern manufacturing methods the
quantity of tin in a thousand ordinary
30oz. fruit-tins would be only about
pounds, including that used in the solder.
Hence the increase in cost resulting from
the rise in tin would be less than one-
tenth of a penny per tin of food.
On the other hand, the retailer could
not increase his price by less than a
halfpenny, so the unfortunate purchaser
would pay the other four-tenths of a
penny on each tin as extra profit to the
various manufacturers down the line—a
good illustration of What is all too com-
mon under our present inflation,—Tin-
tagel (N.S.W.).
“The Wonderful Jew”
I congratulate you for your article “The
Wonderful Jew,” dealing with Disraeli.
Recognition for the work done by people
of foreign descent will help a lot towards
national unity, happiness and prosperity.
I am sure that if the opportunity is
given to all newcomers who have not had
the luck to be born on the good earth
of this country they will prove an invalu-
able addition to the national security.—
A Constant Reader (Vic.).
Beer
“Ceg” (B. 21/9/’49) suggests “that
people who are now prevented by lack
of finance, though otherwise well quali-
fied, could open hotels.” Anyone with
the slightest knowledge of the business
in question knows that it takes thousands
of pounds to build, equip and generally
finance even a moderate hotel,
“Grant more licences,” says “C.”
Fewer licences, with a licensing authority
prepared to compel Bung to give reason-
able service both in the bar and to'guests,
would be a better idea.
I live in a country town where there
are 16 hotels. Most of them are of a
very ordinary standard, so competition
has not had much effect on them.
The prices of hotels should be con-
trolled so that the tenant can make a
living without having to exact the last
penny from the public. The percentage
which a lessee can borrow against his
lease should also be subject to check.
An investigation of the terms on which
hotels are leased and amounts paid for
ingoing, etc., should be most interesting.
—C. B. M. (N.S.W.).
Gratuities
The Federal Government has to meet
some £Bl million of war gratuities in
March, 1951, and has a large part in
hand. It could save per cent, com-
pound interest for 18'months by paying
out some of them now, and a lot of it
would no doubt come back as advance
subscriptions to the. Ninth Security Loan.
Any life-assurance man knows that a
policy maturing 18 months hence i§ a
good proposition for new business, and
a Government addicted to getting rid of
money could do worse than save on its
interest bill for a change.—C. H. R.
(Vic.).
Melbourne Show
In post-mortems on the late Royal
Show in Melbourne several reasons have
been offered for the poor attendance.
One was that the polio epidemic kept
parents with kids away. Another could
well be the curtailing of ring events of a
spectacular character or with any great
element of risk about them ; yet another
wholesale profiteering by people selling
sample bags containing insignificant
rubbish at high prices, or ridiculously
expensive toys for children.
The principal reason, however, was de-
plorable catering. Food was mostly expen-
sive and poor or relatively inexpensive and
awful. I paid Is. 6d. for a cold meat-
pie and a cold cup of weak tea. It was
depressing afterwards to look at the pigs,
the Clydesdales and the Shorthorns, which
are well fed and look it.
The trouble seems to be the practice of
letting the food business out by contract.
Individual enterprise should be permitted,
and there should be plenty of good cafes
competing with one another in providing
food and the best wines. Reputable cafes
of the city and vignerons, too, should be
allowed tp have their stands and advertise
their quality just like the manufacturers
of motor-cars and tractors. — Melbn
(Vic.).
-i
Films and Dollars
Among the items listed by the Com-
monwealth Government for reduced
dollar expenditure are films. Had this
particular line been conscientiously re-
viewed a few years ago, several million
dollars codld have been saved to Aus-
tralia and a healthy local industry built
up. The fact now is that many American
films are being imported by us and never
shown, notwithstanding that precious
dollars are paid for them.
Australian exhibitors are caught be-
tween rising overhead costs and fixed
admission charges. Some of the smaller
independent exhibitors do not make as
much money a£ the lessee of the milk-bar,
and, by the same token, they are unable
to afford the costs of enlarging or im-
proving their premises to attract bigger
audiences. The exhibitor contracts with
the distributor for his programmes 12
months ahead, often for films not yet
made, and the distributor undertakes to
keep him supplied with a regular pro-
gramme for that period. The catch is
that the exhibitor does not have enough
screening time to show the full pro-
gramme supplied to him; many of the
shorts he receives are never shown —but
he has to pay for them.
By agreement with the Commonwealth
Government American film companies are
allowed to take only a portion of their
earnings out of the country, and the
balance, of course, is piling up rapidly.
What more natural outlet is there than
the buying-up of more theatre property
in this country to the detriment of Aus-
tralian competitors?
The solution lies in the extending of
the N.S.W. Film Quota Act to all the
States and applying it to short films also.
Prohibiting the importation of B-grade or
“second”-feature films would allow the
exhibitor to run a single-feature-and-
shorts programme which, apart from
being of better all-round quality, would
save dollars, save the exhibitor’s costs
and maybe save the patron a little. The
single - feature programme could also
finish anything up to half an hour earlier.
Finally, it would give the Australian
film-producer a chance to make shorts
profitably, and shorts are the recognised
training-ground in all countries for actors,
technicians and producers before tackling
the intricacies of feature production.
Raw stock is available from sterling
countries, we already have some equip-
ment, and there are plenty of eager young
Australians ready to take on the game.—<
L. G. C. (N.S.W.).


Mariner had anything in common with
Cain or the Wandering Jew, Mr. Martin
discusses with respect the researches of
Professor Lowes, who found that
Frederick Martens in his Voyages into
Spitzbergen and Greenland (1694) wrote,
“whereupon followed mist and snow”
and, “the Ice came floating down apace
and it was very cold.”
And then, from Professor Lowes and
other commentators, there are accounts
of the ice “full half-mast high” and “as
green as an Emerald” which Coleridge
may have taken from The Strange and
Dangerous Voyage of Captain Thomas
James (1633), and of the “oral tradition
of the Netherlands” concerning one
Falkenberg who murdered his brother
and was doomed to wander on the sea
while two spectres played at dice for his
soul. (Did Conrad, incidentally, have
Falkenberg at the back of his mind when,
dealing with that “unfortunate” sailor
who had eaten human flesh, he christened
him Falk ?)
These earlier discoveries Mr. Martin is
prepared to accept; he merely wishes to
suggest the Authentic Narrative as an
additional source. His problem is to
prove that Coleridge read it.
This he has been unable to do. But
he can, of course, prove that Coleridge
“read everything” ; more, that it is very
likely that Coleridge knew of Newton’s
existence, for they had common interests
in Cowper’s poetry, to which Newton
wrote an introduction, and in the sup-
pression of the slave-trade, on which
Newton wrote a pamphlet; and, most
importantly, that, before “The Ancient
Mariner” was composed, Dorothy Words-
worth had read the Narrative, a passage
from which, as Dr. John W. Oliver dis-
covered, William Wordsworth used in
“The Prelude”;
As I have read of one by shipwreck thrown
With fellow Sufferers whom the waves had
spar’d
Upon a region uninhabited,
An island of the Deep, who having brought
To land a single Volume and no more,
A treatise of Geometry
The relevant quotation from the
Authentic Narrative is:
Though destitute of food and clothing,
depressed to a degree beyond common
wretchedness, I could sometimes collect my
mind to mathematical studies. I had
bought Barrow’s Euclid at Plymouth; it
was the only volume I brought on shore;
it #as always with me, and 1 used to take
it to remote corners of the island by the
seaside and draw my diagrams with a long
stick upon the sand.
It seems reasonable to suppose that, if
he had not read Newton, Coleridge had
at least heard about the Narrative from
his two friends. It also seems reasonable
to suppose, with Mr. Martin, that the
Narrative provided one of the sources
of “The Ancient Mariner”: not because
of any specific similarities in the text but
because of a general—though by no
means close —resemblance in the story
and its atmosphere as a whole.
Newton, in a series of letters, des-
scribes the stormy homeward passage of
the Greyhound, on which he was a sort
of supercargo, after 18 months’ trading
on the African coast. His sin was not
albatross-shooting but swearing. He was
sufficiently impressed with his prowess
in this art to decide, in the midst of a
storm, that he .was imperilling his im-
mortal soul by it, and he says that he
also impressed the captain:
Especially towards the close of the voyage
when we met with many disasters, he would
often tell me that, to his great grief he had
a Jonah on board; that a curse attended
me wherever I went; and that all the
troubles he met with in the voyage were
owing to his having taken me into the
vessel.
Mr. Martin’s theory is not finally
proved ; but at least it is established that
Coleridge could have heard of the
Narrative and that Newton, like the
Ancient Mariner, sinned at sea, suffered
terror, found peace in prayer and, at the
conclusion of the voyage, “with the
greatest solemnity engaged myself to be
the Lord’s for ever, and only his.” Also,
Newton was fond of confessing the sins
of his youth; though not, so far as Mr.
Martin has been able to ascertain, to
pedestrians in a hurry to attend a wed-
ding.
Hungarian Nightmare.
A Journey Round My. Skull by Frigyes
Karinthy (Faber) ,is a reprint of the re-
markable human document first pub-
lished in 1939. As macabre as the
picture of Hamlet holding the skull of
poor Yorick in his hand—an analogy
which springs all the more readily to
mind because Karinthy, though not in
this book, is a humorist—it is the auto-
biography of a man suffering from a
tumor on the brain.
As well as being a professional
humorist, a playwright and a poet,
Karinthy is a journalist; and while at
this distance from Hungary it is hardly
possible to arrive at an exact estimate
of his literary ability, in the present book
he is rather more the journalist than any-
thing else. It is, surely, journalistic in
the extreme to have one’s wife, while one
is being operated on for a tumor on the
brain, giving a minute-by-minute de-
scription of the affair over the long-
distance telephone so that the Hungarian
newspapers may print the news as it
comes. And Karinthy’s general state of
excitement, in which all his friends seem
to be geniuses, also seems journalistic.
But that, at least, does not lessen the
interest of his self-portrait as a
journalist; and the horrible fascination
of his sufferings and cure would out-
weigh much graver disadvantages. From
the first moment when, hearing the noise
of imaginary trains rushing by, Karinthy
is aware of his tumor, through all the dis-
tressing physical and nightmarish mental
developments, to the very last minutes
of his operation—for the greater part of
which he remained conscious—the reader
lives through this tremendous experience
with the author . . . and, by way of a
change, is invited to watch the progress
of other diseases or is taken for walks
around lunatic asylums.
It is not a book one would make one’s
favorite bedside reading. Somehow,
because of the journalistic note, it misses
greatness in its special field of horror
literature. But it is, obviously, a journey
into country not travelled every day.
Camera Chimeras .
In Experiment in the Film (Grey Walls
Press, London) Roger Manvell has edited
a set of reviews, by French, American,
German, Soviet and British experts, of
their countries’ efforts to get what a film
is most able to give.
The book is necessarily a melange of
twentieth-century ideas; Freudian psy-
chology ; the artistic concept of “the thing
in itself”; the Marxian theory of the
masses ; symbolism, cubism, surrealism ;
machine-worship ; art as “significant pat-
tern” or “significant form” ; art tending
“towards the pure state of music.”
After World War I, dissective minds
observed that the screen lent itself to
designs in black and white. “A director
must realise that light has meaniifg,” said
Delluc in 1920, and then he went on to
speak of the “cadence” of film images.
A French journalist claimed that “the best
films were composed like concertos.”
The rule of music, the general rhyth-
mical form of the symphony, over all
twentieth-century art which involves a
progression of images, has a more exact
basis in the relationship between color
and light. Music can be resolved into
mathematics, and so can color; and for
a long time before the camera was in-
vented, efforts were being made to find
the pictorial equivalent of sound, and the
sound-equivalent of color. In Germany,
in the 1920’5, Hans Richter and a Swedish
artist, Eggeling, made “symphonies” and
“fugues” of long scrolls or progressions of
images:
One day in 1920 U.F.A. allowed us to
use their animation tables. We made a
tryout with one figure of my scroll, Prelude.
It took the U.F.A. technician more than a
week to animate, haphazardly, the com-
plicated drawing (about thirty feet long).
I started to animate a set of paper
squares in all sizes and from grey to
white I made my paper squares grow
and disappear, jump and slide in well-
controlled tempo and planned rhythm
Other experimenters allowed that film
could have human and emotional con-
tent. “It really dissects the soul,” said
Jules Superveille in 1925, “takes phy-
siognomical samples, swabs from un-
alloyed feelings.” There began a long
string of dream-films, many using
Freudian symbols: “The Cabinet of Dr.
Caligari,” a madman’s dream, merged
into the surrealist dream of “Un Chien
Andalou” put out by Bunuel and Dali.
An Englishman, Percy Smith, seems to
have been first with the scientific or in-
structional film. In his Southgate home
in 1908, with slow-motion cameras and
“fertile imagination and technical in-
genuity (often assisted by Mrs. Smith’s
workbasket) he began to analyse the flap-
ping of birds’ wings, and to record the
lives of plants and insects in films which
compress days into minutes.”
The remarks on Percy Smith’s work,
and on various other points of camera-
technique, stop just at the point when we
expect to be told how certain effects are
obtained, but no doubt this is necessary in
a book which surveys so wide and varied
a field.
Perils of Publishing .
More horrifying to the author than
the sobbing of his hungry children is the
wail of the publisher; Mr. Michael
Joseph’s The Adventure of Publishing
(Allan Wingate, London).
Mr. Joseph revives the lament set up
twenty years ago by Mr. Geoffrey
Faber: too many books are being pub-
lished—in 1924, 12,706 ;in 1938, 16,091.
Costs have almost trebled.
Australia is Britain’s best overseas
book-customer, buying in 1947 about
18 per cent, of British book exports:
£1,334,500:
Books are sold to overseas buyers [i.e.,
booksellers] for considerably less than they
fetch in the home market. The majority
of non-fiction books are sold at half-price;
Bs. 6d. novels at 45., 10s. 6d. at 5k.,
12s. 6d. at 6s The Bs. 6d. novel which
the English publisher sells for 4s. is priced
at 9s. 6d. when it is handed over the
counter at Adelaide. The publisher pays
the author a reduced royalty on overseas
sales but the margin between the actual
cost of manufacture and the price which
he receives from the overseas buyer is so
small that no English publisher could
afford to produce for overseas markets
unless a substantial part of his edition were
also saleable at the higher price to home-
buyers. But, given a satisfactory home sale,
books can be exported at the necessarily
lower overseas prices, and although the
margx.i is very small, it often makes all
the difference between profit and loss to
the publisher.
Thus “a good export business is depen-
dent on a healthy home trade”:
Australia does not yet present a suffi-
ciently large home trade for the publication
there of any but books of special national
interest or books by established, best-
selling writers Although Australian book
exports on a large scale are not imminent,
they are sure to come
And then, no doubt, there will be more
problems and books about them, for
American exporters sometimes tend to
pop over boundary-lines ; indeed, some
American publishers are not quite—
quite.. .
These few points represent only a
part of Mr. Joseph’s general survey of
publishers’ efforts to make a certainty
out of a gamble. Mr. Joseph takes a
dim view of advertising as a sales-pusher,
a poor view of literary agents, and a
somewhat distant view of reviewers:
I still believe that only relatively few
copies of any book can be sold because of
favorable reviews An unkind review can,
of course, sell a book as well as, if not
better than, conventional praise. The chief
function of a review, in any case, is to
tell the reader what the book is about.
Well, there is what Mr. Michael
Joseph’s book is about.
Reviewed Briefly .
The Atomic Age: the Sir Halley
Stewart lectures for 1948 (Allen and
Unwin). M. L. Oliphant discusses “the
scientific achievement” ; P. M. S. Blackett
its military consequences; R. F. Harrod
its economic consequences; Bertrand
Russell the question of human values;
Lionel Curtis the political repercussions
of atomic power; and D. W. Brogan the
position of America.
ait * * *
Shadows in the Sun: Dr. Stephen
Taylor, M.P., and Phyllis Gadsden
(Harrap). An account of the fight against
tropical diseases, with special reference
to the British Colonial Empire—what has
been done about leprosy in Fiji, malaria in
Ceylon and typhus in Malaya. Intended
for general reading.
* * * *
The Life of Reason: D. G. James
(Longmans). The first of four volumes
“designed to make a comprehensive criti-
cal examination of Augustan literature,
with particular reference to the poetry.”
Professor James examines here, in learned
and masterly style, the philosophies of
Hobbes, Locke and Bolingbroke ; reserv-
ing for a later volume —except for occa-
sional comments, including some illumin-
ating remarks on Milton —his analysis of
the writers against this philosophical
background.
# * * *
Personality in Nature, Society and Cul-
ture : edited by Clyde Kluckhohn and
Henry A. Murray, of Harvard University
(Cape). A large collection of essays by
39 social-scientists from U.S. universities.
« * * »
Selections from The Paston Letters,
edited by A. H. R. Ball, has been added
to Harrap’s Holborn Library. The book
is not intended to replace the definitive
six-volume edition of these remarkable
family letters that are “the main source
of much of our knowledge of 15th-
century social life,” but makes a useful
introduction to them for the average
reader. The spelling is modernised enough
to make it comprehensible without the
flavor of the original being lost. Hie
letters are grouped out of chronological
order to make more-or-less consecutive
stories of Family Affairs, the Fastolf In-
heritance, Local Affairs and Political
Events.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 38
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
Across.
I—Look1 —Look out, you golfers, before 1
send back a tooth to the festivi-
ties that are Evatt’s concern.
(7, 7)
9 —British river. (3)
10— Fifty-one nagged but freed. (9)
11 — Crest bears a monkey kiss. (4)
13— Though it’s shortened, New
Guinea gets a lash of the whip.
(5)
14— These Europeans are not Serb
if you see them thus. (7)
16— Alsp owes after tea. (3)
17— Refrigerant. (3)
18— Some of the West Indies fight in
Yorkshire. (8)
21—Sydney’s June wasn’t this thorny
M.D. in disorder. (3, 5)
23 — Sick little surroundings of
Chicago. (3)
24 — Eggs mean nothing to Virginia.
(3)
26 —French sailor is to be poly-
gamous? (7)
28— King Edward the Obese is
doomed. (5)
29 All the French racecourse urger
is rttributable to Guido’s key-
note. (4)
32—Most inexperienced bridge bid by
East’s partner? (9)
{Solution in next issue.)
33 — Give employment to Sloppy Sue.
(3)
34 — Overcrowding causes this charac-
teristic of the housing shortage,
and that’s straight. (3, 4,7)
Down.
1 — -If upset, allow the delightfully
dainty to finish the dish. (5, 6)
2 The bone when filleted is covered
with haberdashery. (8)
3 Norm is ignored in it. (12)
4 It’s worth observing a lodging-
house which serves no meals. (7)
5 Stuff and nonsense in the stop-
press. (5)
6 Gilbertian princess. (3)
7 About bygone days of meal. (6)
8— Observe the sphere of a bishop’s
jurisdiction. (3)
12—Keep the story in order to have
your turn in the speech-making.
(4: 3,5)
15 —Utchutch is unintelligible. (6, 5)
19— Court wrings? (3)
20 — The low cloud about to return
thanks and manhandle. (8)
22 —Urtica irritates. (7)
25—Lie in wait all the morning over
the outback. (6)
27—Medical deputy. (5)
30 — “Things at home are crossways,
and Betsey and I are ”
(Carleton). (3)
31 — It is customary to drive away
from it. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 37.


Steel industry apprentices
built this boring mill to help keep
Australia’s railways rolling.
m
m
V:
■m
m
8888
Learning a Trade
the Steel
J_JKE to share the pride of these apprentices? 1 hen learn a trade
with the steel industry. In the course of their training they have
built six of these boring mills at the Newcastle works of the
Commonwealth Steel Co., Ltd. The mills play a vital role in the
production of steel wheels and tyres for Australia’s railways.
What these apprentices have achieved demonstrates the practical,
interesting and creative approach to apprenticeship training under
the steel industry s Staff Training Scheme—a scheme which provides
you with expert instruction on the most modern equipment. You do
the job, learning by practical experience.
You, too, can take advantage of the industry’s apprenticeship
training experience, special facilities and skilled instructors to gain
for yourself an assured, well-paid future in an expanding industry.
If you’re aged 15-18, there’s a trade for you
Blacksmith
Boilermaker *
Bricklayer
Carpenter
Coppersmith
Electrical Fitter *
Electrical Mechanic
Fitter and Machiner
Fitter and Turner *
French Polisher
Motor Mechanic
Moulder
Painter
Patternmaker *
Plumber
Sheet Metal Worker
Ship’s Joiner
Shipwright
Tinsmith *
Turner *
Intermediate Certificate required: preference given to Intermediate Certificate-holders for other trades
A Steel Industry
Apprenticeship
Means
★ Self-contained apprentice
shops for some trades, with
your own messrooms, change-
rooms. lockers and showers.
Refund of fees on successful
completion of your Technical
College trade course.
★ Award wages, plus good-
conduct bonuses.
1 k Living allowances if you
have to board away from
home.
★ Eight hours a fortnight time-
off to attend lectures on full
pay.
Train for YOUR future with the
STEEL
Apply NOW to the following:
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.—Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne.
Newcastle Steel Works: Newcastle P.O. Box 196. Commonwealth Steel Co. Ltd.: Waratah, N.S.W.
Australian lion & Steel Ltd.: P.O. Wollongong, N.S.W. Rylands Bros. (Australia) Pty. Ltd.: Newcastle P.O. Box 245»
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd.: Box 21, Whyalla, S.A.
