

sd
A PRODUCT OF THE
fs
11 3 d d 3 S JO 3 S n O H
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 70- No. 3597
Wednesday, January 19, 1949
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Sepelts
/■J.OODRICH CASTLE, standing on the
summit of a hill on the south bank
of the River Wye, near Ross, commands
an ancient crossing of the river used by
the Romans en route from Gloucester to
the important military camp at Caerleon.
The castle, however, dates from the
twelfth century, and to its natural de-
fences was added a moat cut from the
rock, which made it one of the most
formidable of medieval fortresses. It
stands on the site of an earlier castle
named “Godric’s Castle,” mentioned in
a document of 1101, and was built by
Godric Mapperstone. Later it came into
the hands of the Crown, and the existing
square Norman keep was erected in
the early twelfth century. •
In 1204, King John granted the castle
to the Earl of Pembroke. In the trouble-
some reign of Edward II there was much
dispute regarding the possession of the
castle, which finally fell to Richard
Talbot in 1326 The Talbots were later
created Earls of Shrewsbury ; and Good-
rich became their principal residence
until the death of the seventh earl, Gilbert
Talbot, in 1616, when the castle passed
to the Earls of Kent.
During the civil war in 1643, Goodrich
was the scene of much fighting, and there-
after it passed through many hands until
1920, when it was placed under the
guardianship of H.M. Office of Works.
Apart from the Norman keep, the
greater part of the existing fortress was
built at the end of the thirteenth century
and consists of a large rectangular inner
court surrounded by a curtain wall
strengthened at the angles with remark-
able spurred towers, which are shown in
this picture. On the west side is the
Great Hall, a room measuring sixtyfive
feet long by twentyseven feet wide.
The gatehouse and chapel tower occupy
the north-east corner where the gatehall
was closed at each end by a gate and
protected by a portcullis and drawbridge.
Goodrich Castle was the scene of
Wordsworth’s poem “We Are Seven.”
MOST FORMIDABLE OF MEDIEVAL FORTS, STURDY GOODRICH CASTLE


liMi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Prop, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 249 AGE
The Red Page
TRUBY KING.
There is, curiously, hardly anything in
Mary King’s Truby King the Man (Allen
and Unwin) to indicate exactly what
Truby King thought about babies. He
regarded them as important, obviously,
since he devoted a great part of his life
to their welfare ; but what he actually
thought about them as babies —that is,
as small individuals liable, like lions, to
roar in the night or, at mealtimes, to
bang their parents on the head with a
spoon —remains a mystery.
Since, having no children of his own,
he and his Scottish wife adopted the
author of the present biography, one
may deduce that he had the normal im-
pulse towards parenthood, and experi-
enced its normal problems and rewards.
But both the facts of his career as re-
vealed in the biography and the absence
of any of those raptures which afflicted,
for instance, the poet Swinburne are
evidence that his feeling for the very
young was normally balanced among' his
other emotional and scientific interests.
If he thought more of babies than the
ordinary man, and did more for them,
that was because he brought to all his
activities, and to the whole spectacle of
life, a more than ordinary sensitivity, a
more than ordinary energy. He had in
him the flame of genius, quickening his
own response to life and illuminating
everything he touched.
The biography shows him, indeed, as
a man of wide culture and of extra-
ordinarily varied interests, and it seems
mere chance —which might be another
word for destiny—that led him to make
infant welfare his chief preoccupation.
Medicine was certainly his vocation, and
when his father put him into the banking
profession he very quickly made up his
mind that he would have to go to Edin-
burgh to study to be a doctor, but it was
not the care of the young but of the
insane which first engaged his enthusi-
asm ; Mary King’s account of his Vork
in the care and cure of lunacy in New
Zealand will astonish many readers who
are acquainted with the name of Truby
King only through the Plunket activities
in New Zealand and the Truby King
clinics and Karitane hospitals in Aus-
tralia.
And “medicine,” as far as Truby King
was concerned, was a very wide term in-
deed ; it meant, in fact, nothing less than
the whole of life: everything that grew
from the good earth and could be helped
to grow cleanly and vigorously as nature
intended it to. He liked rearing calves
and pigs and chickens, and became an
expert in their care before he turned his
attention to the young human animal:
which, after all, is very like a calf, only
more difficult. On his own experimental
farm or by proxy and supervision in the
gardens of the insane asylums under his
charge he grew flowers and trees and
vegetables, becoming an expert in horti-
culture also before he became an expert
in babies: which, once again, are rather
like a kind of vegetable after all, only
more violent.
He took great pains and great pride in
reclaiming from the sea and making
fertile a waste of sand dunes at Dunedin
—the Karitane peninsula. When he was
simultaneously supervising the Seacliff
Mental Hospital, the newly-formed
Mothercraft Society and the Home for
Inebriates he had founded at Waitati,
nine miles south of Seacliff, he developed
a passionate interest in potatoes ; and the
Seacliff potatoes, when planted by
farmers along the coast of the South
Island, came up before any other variety,
had greater vitality, larger leaves and
bigger tubers. A paragraph indicating his
love for trees;
On one occasion men from the Public
Works Department came out to Seacliff to
cut down a row of lofty gums between
Clifton House (the Entry Lodge for male
patients) and the main roadway. Dr. King
went out to meet them. “If you cut down
one tree,” he threatened, “I’ll turn the
whole Refractory Ward on to you!” They
didn’t. But about 1928, when Dr. King
had left the Seacliff Mental Hospital, the
Power Board ordered these trees to be
felled, with the result that the Hospital
was exposed to bitter winds straight from
the South Pole.
One wishes that there had been a Truby
King in Sydney recently when the bureau-
crats were murdering—to make a wider
road for the traffic to a racecourse —the
city’s most beautiful avenue of trees; the
Moreton Bays of Anzac-parade . . . But
at any rate there are the Truby King
clinics; and that, not horticulture, is
what his name stands for.
Simply by stating the facts of his
career, without any fulsome tributes,
from his first brilliant successes in exami-
nations at Edinburgh to his last days
among his rhododendrons in Welling-
ton, the biographer gives the impression
that Truby King could have excelled and
made a reputation as a specialist in any
of his many interests: if he had not set
out to reduce infant mortality in New
Zealand to the lowest rate in the world,
he might have done something of equaK
importance—in its narrower sphere—for
potatoes. But if it was chance —or
destiny—that set him to specialise in
babies and if his affection for the tribe
of babies was not beyond the normal, his
interest in them was certainly not less
than normal, in the cold detached way
of the scientist or the bureaucrat: he
had a passion for the whole of nature,
and, gradually, he came to the conviction
—or, more accurately, came to Jive the
implied conviction —that the young of
the human species was the most import-
ant part of nature.
What could be done for plants and
animals could also be done for human
beings: if you caught them while they
were growing. The whole of his teach-
ing, essentially, advocated a return to
nature; for natural feeding and fresh
air and sunshine and a natural way of
life, against unnatural foods, “that filthy
contrivance” the dummy and, as a way
of life for young children, an abnormal
dosage of picture-shows. And if children
were brought up naturally, so his experi-
ences in the care of inebriates and the
insane led him to believe, the theory
of hereditary doom could be largely dis-
counted and there would be very many
fewer of the hopelessly drunken, the
criminal and the insane. And the care of
children was thus worth undertaking not
only for the children themselves, but
because, as he wrote to his wife from
Europe, after the 1914 war, it “touched
the destiny of humanity”:
You know, dearest, how I long to be
back with you, but I can no more turn
my back on this and the appalling con-
ditions on the Continent “than I could
turn my back upon a well into which my
children had fallen.” It touches the fate
of millions —indeed the destiny of humanity
—and nothing can prevent my probing it
to the depths, and getting at the back of
things so far as lies in my power.
Here, of course, speaks the crusader
in Truby King ; the idealist, the man who
went beyond the ordinary. It is in the
nature of genius to be better balanced
than is generally admitted or than would
appear from the lives of the near-great;
genius may, indeed, as it was in Truby
King, with his love of literature, his pas-
sion for life and his practical service to
humanity, be supremely well-balanced.
But genius also, inevitably, runs to excess
in one way or another and there we find
the faults, the extremes and the oddities.
If there was a fault worth mentioning in
Truby King’s character it does not appear
in this biography ; nor does one feel that
anything is concealed: as far as money
matters were concerned, he was enough
of an idealist to die bankrupt—and a
lesser man could have made an immense
fortune out of the Karitane products,
the profits from the sale of which (kept
as small as possible) went to the Plunket
Society. There were certainly oddities:
chiefly his superb absentmindedness.
And there were extremes: of energy, of
volubility and, in his later days, of stub-
bornness.
Four typical glimpses of the man he
was are the letter in which he describes
an air-raid in London (Great War) as
“enthralling” ; the scene in the Court-
house in New Plymouth when he talked
for two hours to the Judge and jury and
proved that a doctor who had committed
a murder was insane; his conversation
aboard the ferry from Lyttelton with
the then Governor-General, when Truby
King failed to recognise the man who had
that day invested him with his knight-
hood ; and his exasperation with the
mother and sympathy for the child when,
supervising the departure from Liverpool
in 1919 of the wives and children of
Australian soldiers, he “saw a child of
eight months comforting itself on a piece
of raw meat given by its mother. The
child had the face of a tired old man.”
Mary King’s biography is of the pas-
sive rather than the active kind: an
assemblage of letters and diaries and a
record of facts, among which the reader
is to a large extent —though not com-
pletely —left to assemble and dramatise
for himself the living figure of Truby
King. Amateurishness shows in this
method and also in the lack of historical
detachment —a weakness hardly avoid-
able in the circumstances —from Truby
King’s theories and from the conflicts in
which he was involved. Yet the book
differs from most biographies by un-
practised hands, and especially the bio-
graphies of good men, in that it is
absorbingly interesting all the way
through: a phenomenon arising chiefly
from Truby King’s persisting and per-
vading vitality, but also from the author’s
thoroughness in assembling the facts
about him and the passages where, in-
spired by his work and her own en-
thusiasm for it, she writes with force and
feeling.
Fisher's Ghost .
It is to be trusted that no copy of Mr.
F. J. H. Letters’s In a Shaft of Sunlight
(Shakspeare Head) finds its way into the
hands of Fisher’s Ghost, the Guyra
Ghost, the Tantanoola Tiger (presuming
it was of supernatural origin), the Nar-
randera Nightmare recently reported at
the appropriate locality of Moon’s Sid-
ing, or any of the thousands of less cele-
brated but perhaps equally perilous
phantoms which haunt every pub, humpy
or camping-place in the bush where a
Chinaman once hanged himself or a fos-
sicker foully slew his mate; for Mr.
Letters has been trifling with the finer
feelings of these spectres and is likely to
find himself haunted.
“Australia is not a ghost-growing
country,” he asserts in the opening sen-
tence of his opening essay ; and after this
general annihilation he proceeds to dis-
miss Fisher’s Ghost as “probably the
most meagre and disappointing spook on
record”:
The basic fact of the story is that the
body of one Fisher was found in a stream
dredged to ascertain why horses shied when
their riders tried to spur them across the
bridge. It seems his aura was visible, at
best, to the equine, not to the human eye.
Could anything be more exasperating?
How humiliating to think that what is virtu-
ally a mere invisibility should be the
national spectre. I do not remember if
anyone ever claimed to have caught sight
of it, but certainly nobody has left any
description of its appearance.
Now these, as any admirer of Fisher’s
Ghost will recall, are not “the basic facts
of the story” at all. Fisher’s body was
not found in a stream, but in a marshy
spot in a paddock and Fisher’s Ghost was
seen —by a Mr. Farley who, it is to be
presumed, was not a horse. Mr. Letters,
if he was not acquainted with any friends
of Fisher’s Ghost, and lacked contacts in
the spirit-world, had only to look up the
Australian Encyclopedia to learn:
About that time, so the story goes, a
man named Farley reported with every
sign of terror that he had seen Fisher’s
ghost sitting on the sliprails of a paddock
and pointing to the paddock.
One feels, since Mr. Letters did not
take that trouble, that he is trifling not
only with the ghost, but with the reader.
And that impression recurs on several
occasions as one goes through the essays.
Mr. Letters declares, for instance, “Now
I think it would be hard to maintain that
burning patriotism throbs through our
modernist or semi-modemist verse”; but
surely anybody acquainted with Robert
D. Fitz Gerald’s “Essay on Memory” and
“Heemskirck Shoals,” with Francis
Webb’s “A Drum for Ben Boyd” or with
Judith Wright’s lyrical interpretation of
the Australian earth would come to the
opposite conclusion. Mr. Letters may,
of course, have been thinking of quitl a
different set of “modernists or semi-
modernists” —the Angry Penguins, for
example. But when he fails to be specific
one cannot help suspecting that he may
not have been thinking at all.
Again, Mr. Letters turns his attention
—or inattention —to the Australian fairy-
story :
Despite what I said earlier, I am willing
to make the admission that the Australian
fairy-tale, if it is to be strictly national,
and to concern itself with such things as
the goanna and the native bear, may ulti-
mately prove the means of educating the
Australian child in yet a third mode of
sensibility by adding the Quaint to the
Sublime and the Beautiful. There is some-
thing undeniably mirth-moving about our
fauna, from the duckbill platypus to the
kangaroo, that has not yet been fully ex-
ploited. Writers of fairy-tales with an
Australian flavor should accept the fact;
there is abundant justification for the quaint
fairy-tale, however absurd it would be to
omit the older forms that are a part of
our world heritage.
Mr. Letters is not to be accused here of
trifling with the feelings of the duck-billed
platypus; it is undeniably a comic
creature. Nor does one question his
theory that the Australian child should
know the traditional European fairy-tales
and nursery-rhymes. But the paragraph
makes one doubt whether Mr. Letters
knows anything at all about the scores of
children’s books which have been written
in Australia and which, from The Magic
Pudding to Shy the Platypus, from Dot
and the Kangaroo to the Gumnut series,
have dealt with the quaint Australian
fauna in precisely the manner suggested
by his well-meant but belated advice.
Speaking as an admirer of Fisher’s
Ghost, “Heemskirck Shoals,” Australian
fairy-tales and Mr. Letters’s Virgil, the
present reviewer is disappointed in In a
Shaft of Sunlight. Mr. Letters does not
seem to have regarded himself as being
on oath, as he has been in his more
serious critical writing ; but even in a light
essay one should write accurately on
serious things: and Fisher’s Ghost, even
if the story is not altogether reliably
attested, is a very serious thing —so, at any
rate, thought Mr. Farley.
The truth is, perhaps, at least as far as
this book is concerned, that Mr. Letters is
not deeply interested in Australian affairs.
He is a classical scholar, and his heart is}
in antiquity: and the occasional Aus-,
tralian subjects which do seriously engage
his attention Christopher Brennan,
Sydney’s old Public Library in Bent-
street and the Christian Brothers’ College
in Waverley—appeal to him because they
all, so to speak, have their roots in anti-
quity. And when Fisher’s Ghost is set
aside as irrelevant —as it is to Mr.
Letters’s essential purpose, which is to
discuss the scarcity of really impressive
ghosts in Greek literature and to pro-
pound the theory that the practice of
cremation is partly responsible for their
quiet retirement to Hades —the essay be-
comes interesting and informative.
Similarly, when the too slight and too
slighting references to Australian fairy-
stories have been put aside, Mr. Letters
is well worth reading on The Thousand
and One Nights and Humpty Dumpty.
He writes pleasantly on “Smoking,”
“Wine in Antiquity” and “Languages,”
and the advantage of his classical view-
point, when he is willing to treat an Aus-
tralian theme seriously, is shown in his
examination of extremes of nationalism
in Australian versifying.
As the shallowness of some of the
comments on Australia is offset by the
deep interest in antiquity, so the lightness
of tone, sometimes a disadvantage, makes
the essays on the whole attractive: the
style is polished and ironic. But surely
neither from the literary nor the national
viewpoint can one approve of the phrase
“the perfect phantom twirp” for Fisher’s
outraged Ghost.
The Country Air .
Hamilton Grieve’s Something in the
Country Air (Museum Press) is a light-
hearted novel set on a sheep-station in the
New Zealand province of Hawkes Bay.
Little of the special flavor of the New
Zealand earth hovers in the country air,
for although Mr. Grieve seems to know
his locality well enough his lighthearted-
ness keeps him, as it were, bouncing
above it.
The air is, in fact, chiefly occupied
by Mr. Grieve’s typewriter, which emits
a continuous and deafening spate of high
spirits and cliches. The following cliches
are from a single paragraph: “fond
mother,” “roseate vision,” “swell with
pride” and “wily Jap.” As for the high
spirits:
Mr. Everard was aware that the female
of the human species could change over-
night from a girl to a strange being who
plucked her eyebrows out by the roots and
pencilled on a new and incredible set which
gave her the look of a surprised rabbit
These mysterious rites were apparently
necessary to the process of becoming a
fully-fledged young woman. And then, of
course, the husband-hunt was on. Yoicks
and tally-ho!
While these cracklings and corusca-
tions of mirth are enlivening the rustic
sky, there may be perceived, merrily swept
into the air among them, a young woman
who appears to like sheep more than
men, two impish small girls, a ferocious
aunt and a handsome rouseabout. By
page 17 it should be obvious even to the
sheep that the young woman will marry
the rouseabout; which, on page 224, the
author —as a surprise—reveals will be the
case. In the interval between those pages
there are the pranks of the small girls,
the machinations of the aunt and high
spirits about the country store and the
party-telephone; and the rouseabout, to
solve his financial difficulties, wins Tatts.
There are also, at a conservative estimate,
fifty thousand cliches.
There seems to be something in the
city air which has prevented the present
reviewer from fully participating in the
merriment of Something in the Country
Air. However, it may bring delight to
small girls, romance to young women
who think they prefer sheep to men, and
the hope of both love and fortune to im-
poverished rouseabouts, and there is no
doubt whatever about its high spirits. So
yoicks and tally-ho to it.
Rod Building for Rock and Surf: F. D.
Marshall (Angus and Robertson).
“Contrary to general belief,” says Mr.
Marshall, “there are a number of Aus-
tralian timbers suitable for rod-building.
In fact, one of these, saffron heart, a
native of Queensland, is considered the
equal of any rod-timber in the world.’
Mr. Marshall knows what he is talking
about and no fisherman capable of mak-
ing a rod should let him get away.


“Truth in Advertising’
Horderns’
THE SENIOR STORE
To double breasted, tailored
I |
Hi
ii
|y|/
Not just the ordinary ready-made suit . . . but actual tailored
stock sizes! These superior quality Worsted Suits in the popular
Double Breasted style represent the very best in cut and finish.
They come in sizes 34 to 42, and we know you
can’t buy better for the money anywhere ... so place
your order now, whilst stocks are available at these
keen prices, £9/11/6, £ll/4/6, £l2/4/6
Men’s Tailoring—Ground Floor , George Street
w
m
in
■
■
■
;: ,
SmSm^
Sill*
■
■
BOYS’ KNICKERS AND RANGER SUITS
Khaki Drill Ranger Suit made from washing quality Drill and sturdily sewn
to stand up to the demands made by hard school wear! To fit boys from
4to 8 years. Price 14/8
Khaki Drill Knickalls . . . a summer necessity for all small boys! There
is a complete range now available in the well known “Yakka” Brand, in
fittings for boys 1 to 10 years, and they’re priced at only ' 8/4
Boys’ Clothing-
First Floor,
George Street
./r
V II \
i
r
\ 'Y
J c
T 1
v
/
%
’Phone: M24ol—Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney


CA TRUE STORY)
PEA CROP HARVESTED
FOR SICK FARMER
ms*
m
WP
Just as his first pea crops were
reaching maturity, an ex-
serviceman on a small selection
was obliged to enter hospital
for urgent treatment. He was
in despair at leaving his wife
and small child, and on the
advice of the local Repatriation
Committee sought the assistance
of the District Employment
Officer regarding immediate
harvesting and marketing of
two and a half acres of peas.
The Officer at once engaged
nineteen casual pickers to lift
this section of the crop, and
put a reputable ex-serviceman
with clerical experience and
sound knowledge of marketing,
in charge. The overseer super-
vised the pickers, checked and
weighed the peas, bagged and
stencilled them for marketing,
and delivered the bags to an
assembly point where they were
picked up by market transport
The necessary records were
kept and handed to the farmer’s
wife at the end of each day’s
operations, labour supply was
maintained and finally the hus-
band was assured that his im-
mediate worries had been set
at rest
The timely assistance given to
this ex-serviceman is just one
example, taken from thousands
listed in the official records, of
the counsel and help made
available by the Commonwealth
Employment Service through
its branch and district offices.
The friendly advice of District
Employment Officers itf avail-
able without charge or obli-
gation in any employment or
occupational problem.
COMMONWEALTH EMPIOTMEMI SERVICE
Offices throughout Australia
Consult your telephone directory
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
MAKERS OF. GOOD BEER SINCE 1835
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy old British or early Aus-
tralian sporting, coaching, hunting
or shooting prints.—4s39.
To buy books on engraving, litho-
graphy, mezzotinting, aquatinting;
also on engravers and their works-
-4540.
To buy copies of Turner’s Struggle
in Air, Pedley’s Only This, House-
man’s Letters of Fallen Englishmen
and Brophy’s World Went Mad. —
4536.
To buy complete sets of cigarette-
cards in good condition.—4s37.
Words of verse beginning;—
I tramped and trained at Qreta in the
days of ’39.
-4538.
Information Sought.
How to prevent and ease sunburn?
Apart from cream and oils, a
flesh-tinted calamine lotion cuts out
the strong sun rays and prevents sun-
burn, but extremes must be avoided.
There are numerous suntan oils speci-
ally prepared for surfers. For sun-
burn itself carron-oil made with equal
parts limewater and olive- or peanut-
oil as an application affords relief.
• * * *
A home-made cleanser for removing
paint and grease from the hands?
Take soft soap lib., solution of
ammonia 1 fl. oz., oil of turpentine
or eucalyptus i fl. oz., powdered
pumice 4oz. Mix the ammonia well
with the soap; then gradually in-
corporate the oil and then the pumice.
If desired, this soap may be perfumed
with citronella or lavender oil. For
motorists’ hand-soap prepare as above,
but replace turpentine or eucalyptus
with ordinary benzine.
(1) Area and carrying capacity of
the largest properties .in the N.S.W.
Western Division? (2) The property
in N.S.W. carrying the greatest num-
ber of stock?
(1) The largest group under one
ownership is the Elsinora Proprietary,
which controls Urisino, Thurloo
Downs and Elsinora, with a total
acreage of 449,522 acres. Before 1946
the total was over one million acres,
but since then Salisbury Downs and
Bootra came back to the Crown. The
latest Pastures Protection Board re-
turns of stock on these properties
(1946) was a total of 2000 cattle and
68,000 sheep, but these figures fluctu-
ate enormously because of seasonal
conditions. (2) Kooba, belonging
to F. W. Hughes, which has an area
of 118,743 acres and latest stocking
figures of 512 horses, 1076 cattle and
70,624 sheep.
* * * *
How to shampoo and oil-dress dry
hair ?
For the shampoo use shredded soap
or soap flakes dissolved in hot water
(tablespoonful to large cup), making
a full lather before rinsing with tepid
water. After drying, place two or
three drops of toilet paraffin-oil in
the hand, and rub palms together so
that no free greasiness remains. Then
pass the hands briskly over the head
from front to back. Apply warmed
olive-oil to hair roots overnight before
shampooing.
* * * ♦
What are the rules as to using
“Yours faithfully,” “Yours truly,”
“Sincerely yours,” etc., in signing a
letter ?
Fowler in Modern English Usage
suggests “Your obedient servant” or
“Yours obediently” in correspondence
to or from officials; “Yours respect-
fully” from servant to master; “Yours
faithfully” to unknown persons on
business; “Yours truly” to slight
acquaintances; “Yours very truly,”
ceremonious but cordial; “Yours
sincerely” in invitations and friendly
but not intimate letters; “Yours ever”
or “Ever yours” or “Yours” be-
tween intimates; “Yours affection-
ately” between relations,
* * * *
Dates and causes of economic crises
in Australia during the nineteenth
century ?
1842-45: Opinions differ as to
causes, but Governor Gipps attri-
buted it entirely to overspeculation
and the facility with which people
without means got credit. (Bank of
Australia and Royal of Australia
liquidated.) 1893-94; Due to over-
borrowing, too easy credit and in-
flation, as well as a subsequent world-
wide slump in prices. (In ail 23
banks, some of them of mushroom
growth, suspended.)
* * * *
Briefly, what is proportional repre-
sentation ?
A system of election designed to
prevent any candidate being returned
by a minority of the votes cast, and
at the same tune to ensure that minori-
ties in the community shall be repre-
sented to the extent to which their
numerical strength entitles them. It
is sought to achieve this by a system
of large electorates, each returning
five or six members, and by the prin-
ciple of the preferential transferable
vote. The voter marks the' candidate
in the order of his preference. If
the candidate marked 1 is not well
enough supported to be elected, the
vote passes to No. 2, and so on.
# ♦ * *
(1) What is the botanical name of
the Queensland nut? (2) What are
its other common names ? (3) Is it
a small or large tree? (4) Are the
nuts edible? (5) What is its timber
like? (6) In what States is it to be
found?
(1) Macadamia ternifolia. (2) Nut
oak or Bopple nut. (3) It is a tree
20ft. to 30ft. high with a basal
diameter of 6in. to 9in. (4) The nuts
are edible and suitable for use in
confectionery. (5) The timber is pale
mauve in color and finely marbled like
silky oak. The wood is very hard to
cut, but straight-grained and easily
split. It is too hard and heavy for
cabinet-making. (6) Queensland and
N.S.W.
* ♦ * •
(1) Were any newspapers published
by the New Australia colonists in
Paraguay? (2) Are copies available
for inspection in Sydney?
(1) They issued a manuscript jour-
nal, “Cosme Evening Notes.” It was
read aloud every evening except Sun-
days for the first four years, after
which it became a weekly. The
“Cosme Monthly,” a four-page octavo
newspaper, was issued from the
founding of the colony (1894) until
1903, when it changed its name to
“Cosme” for a few issues, and came
out as a quarterly. It was printed in
the colony and mailed away for
propaganda purposes. (2) Yes, at
the Mitchell Library.
* * ♦ ♦
Difference between ordinary garden
tomato, the climbing tomato and the-
tree-tomato ?
The garden and climbing tomato
are the same species and can be
grown among other vegetables; the
tree-tomato is Cyphomandra betacea,
an ornamental shrub which grows to
10ft., and carries oval fruit which
turns dark purple when npe. It is
used widely for making conserves, and
its flavor is different to the garden
tomato, with a passion-fruit taste.
♦ ♦ * ♦
I wish to plant pine-trees beside a
fence in a sunny position. Soil is
good with clayey subsoil. An earthen-
ware drain is about lift, away and
thus a long-rooting variety would not
suit. What varieties might be suitable?
Where trees are to be planted
trench the holes at least sft. deep
and 3ft. wide and the clayey subsoil
will not be a hindrance. You omit
to say the growing heights desired.
Of the lower-growing pines which
must be planted about 4ft. between
to make an effective breakwind —use
the cupressus (or cypress): Brunniana
aurea, with golden foliage, grows to
15ft.; Lambertiana horizontalis, rapid
grower, dark green foliage, 30ft.;
Sempervirens stricta, green foliage,
30ft. Tall suitable sorts are Pirns
canariensis, silver foliage, 40ft.; P.
insignis, quick grower, green foliage,
100 ft.; and P. maritima, suitable for
light or sandy soils, 40ft. These trees
are often hard to obtain and early
application should be made to plant-
merchants or nurserymen.
* * * *
To score knockouts, which are the
most vulnerable parts of an opponent's
head or body that a boxer should aim
at?
About 80 per cent, of knockouts
in boxing are obtained with lefts or
rights to the chin. Solid blows to
the solar-plexus, epiglottis (Adam’s
apple), heart, or behind either ear
cause the rest.
IK * ♦ ♦
From whom, and when, did Mick
Dunn win the Australian welterweight
championship, and who beat him for
that title? When was Dunn born,
and is he still living?
Mick Dunn beat Otto Cribb for the
Australian welterweight championship
at Sydney in 1901. Cribb died soon
after the contest, and Dunn imme-
diately retired unbeaten for the title.
Born in Sydney on October 20, 1864,
Dunn is still living at Artannon
(N.S.W.).
Brief Answers.
f J.L.M.: The Wheat Acquisition Bill
was passed on Dec. 16, 1930, but never
became operative. Although there was
no restriction on wheat trading during
the passing of the Bill, it had the effect
of virtually bringing trading to a
standstill. By the end of Dec., 1930,
farmers generally were disinclined to
sell because of the low price of
wheat and also in anticipation that
under an acquisition scheme prices
would rise. On the other hand, on
account of the implications of the
bill, shippers and millers practically
ceased to buy and would not accept
wheat on storage J.8.M.: If only
a small quantity of oil is required,
extract it by tightly tying the shelled,
skinned and ground nuts in a piece
of canvas and subjecting them to
heavy pressure for some hours. A
heavy hand-screw press or an arrange-
ment of hardwood blocks and stump-
jack is suitable..C.G.; Nothing
whatever in full-moon theory with
regard to insanity or lunacy... .D.D.:
Morphine habit is usually well
marked. First sense of well-being is
followed by lassitude and mental de-
pression. Sale of drug is strictly con-
trolled. Treatment under supervision
in rest-home advised A. 8.: Evi-
dent that age condition with gland
upset at fault. Faulty circulation
aggravates pains and numbness. You
omit particulars. Your doctor will
prescribe.. ..0.H.: Write to Mitchell
Library } Macquarie-street, and Royal
Australian Historical Society, 8
Young-street—both Sydney... .C.Y.:
The titles of the novels are Men
Against the Earth and For Heroes
To Live In, both by John K. Ewers.
. ...W.B. (Fairfield): Forward us
your full postal address and we will
send particulars required W.H.C.:
The lines are from the poem “Sold-
up,” by Dr. C. H. Souter, which
will be found in The Bulletin Reciter.
... .R.V.P.: The title of the poem is
“The Ballad of Stuttering Jim” by
Samuel Cliall White F.T.L.: The
spelling “riband” is generally used
in connection with insignia suspended
round the neck or across the shoulder,
and “ribbon” for suspending minia-
tures of insignia, for suspending
medals and for ribbons when worn
without miniatures or without medals.
... .F.R.: A useful formula for quick
and effective work in all kinds of
timber is arsenic, 11b.; washing-soda,
11b.; or caustic soda ilb.; water, 3
gallons... .F.P.: William Gosse Hay,
the author, died on March 21, 1945.
... .MJI.S.: We do not know of any
Sydney organisation that undertakes
the dispatch of such parcels....
T.M.S.: (1) Regular applications of a
weedicide or covering the weeds with
salt are recommended. (2) In the
spring give a top-dressing of very fine
sandy gravel, well rolled in....
T.McK.: The winner of the prize
given by the Presbyterian Ladies’
College, Melbourne, in memory of
Rupert Brooke for a long poem on
Gallipoli was won by David McKee
Wright. The poem was published in
The Bulletin, September 2, 1920.
....C.W.W.: Under the N.S.W.
Local Government Act an ordinance
enables a council to act for the
abatement of “any nuisance which
may arise from the barking or howl-
ing” of a dog. This ordinance has
not been universally applied by coun-
cils, so consult the local inspector of
nuisances... .C.P.: You are equally
responsible with your co-trustees.
Trustees are bound to present accounts
of their administration when ordered
to do so by the Court C.K.: Mix
loz. potassium sulphate in a kerosene-
tin of water, emulsify with soft-soap,
and spray the leaves, particularly the
backs J.R.O’C.: Loganberry-grow-
ing should only be carried on as a
sideline. N.S.W. Agriculture Dept,
will advise, if asked, on methods of
culture... .G.S.: Write Associated
Country Sawmillers of N. S. Wales,
Assembly Hall, Margaret-street, Syd-
ney.... L.C.: (1) Work requires ex-
perience and skill. Write for in-
formation, advice and lessons to Miss
N. McCredie, 17 Stanley-road, Epping
(N.S.W.). (2) Without almonds it is
not marzipan. Try this: Hb. icing-
sugar and 3 tablespoons boiling water,
blended together and kept warm but


Good Scotch Whisky
JOHNNIE WALKER
BORN 1820 —
STILL GOING STRONG
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS OF KILMARNOCK,
SCOTLAND;/LONDON AND SYDNEY
JW. 124,6
SoaX,
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASE
They're lighter, stronger, longer*
lasting. That's why a Globito
costs less in the long run.
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
From Brisbane to Perth
HOLDEN wins enthusiastic Praise
Holden’s Good Looks will Last
The colour combinations o
Holden’s body and
tetior have been carefully p
by styling engineers, resulting
car of unusual beauty and character.
Holden is low slung and handsom
its beauty of design wdl be
modern for years fab
room, leg room and seatm g • h
Holden compares f«oumbly .
the largest sedans .. •
fortable room for five 01 *“ *
and the built-in luggage com
partment has a big
[ uggag c and
encroaching on passeng
Econtmy° Celefation and Real
The lively performance of Holden's
6-cyhnder 21 h.p. overhead valve
engine is especially noteworthy
because of the high power-to-
weight ratio of the car. Holden is
ast, it has terrific acceleration and
it s economical.
The Melbourne "Herald” motoring
7“ " ; • at high speed ovef
a tough 86-mile test route, Holden
gllTom” ttCr 35 mileS a
Holden’s all-steel turret top Aero-
bilt design gives greater all-round
safety, and its lower centre of
gravity, combined with its inde-
pendent front wheel springing,
helps give good performance on
all roads.
Ml#
mm
Plus Salts
Tax
HOLDEN
Australia's
Own Car
2045 H
Convenient hire-purchase terms are available through
G.M.A.C., General Motors own finance company.
There is an AIR CHIEF ‘s’ Radio with 6-incb
speaker specially developed and designed for Holden,
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED
BRISBANE • SYDNEY . MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • PERTH
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD. . Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia
not hot over gentle heat while apply-
ing, flavored with anything liked.
Apply with a hot knife. Coloring
may be added... .J. McL.: (1) None,
except acquaintance with a Member
of Parliament. (2) Conviction would
not act as a disqualification F.W.:
You will only have to pay on half....
E.J.P.; Write N.S.W. Department of
Education, Sydney, and state specific
requirements A.C.: Write Ameri-
can Consulate, 7 Wynyard-street,
Sydney G.A.: The instrument
appears to be an Abney Clinometer,
which is used to measure the amount
of slope between two points. With-
out seeing the instrument it is not
possible to say what the markings
are, or to advise on its use. Get in
touch with your local shire or muni-
cipal council, where one of tne
engineers would be glad to
the use of the instrument 8.8. C.:
(1) Association, for the Protection ot
Native Races (Miss Ruth Swann,
Secretary, Alice-street, Granville,
NSW) and the Victorian Aboriginal
Group (Miss A. N. Brown, Secretary,
13 Gladstone-parade, Elsternwick,
Vic) . .C.W.P.: The “Australian
Digest ” 487 Collins-street, Melbourne.
....S.L.L.: Correspondence courses
are available for all grades of Ivler-
chant Service Certificate of Com-
petency up to Master (foreign-going)
from the Richmond Nautical School,
Sirius House, 23 Macquane-place,
Sydney.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany •
MS. should be addressed to the Editor .
T.J.; We note with enthusiasm the
fact that doors have a habit of open-
ing and shutting R.P.8.: As far as
we can read the closely-scrawled
pencil, it isn’t any good A.L.:
Only enough in it to make a para-
graph... .S.D.: In the kindergarten
class and backward at that..,.
W.K.: An average bunyip yarn
0.P.: All that astonishing spelling to
say nothing....B.P.H.; You’re mak-
ing as much progress as a bogged
bu110ck....J.8.C.; No doubt a lot
of it was the girl’s fault, but set it
to her credit that she didn’t write the
poem... .Bellerive: A fearful adven-
ture :
... .A.T.M.: It didn’t get near enough
to pass the time o’ day C.D.E.:
So dry that it called for three visits
to the next-door pub before we could
finish it J.M.McK.: At any rate
your bull has an owner with an un-
usual name L.P. : An unpleasant
yarn that doesn’t make us believe it’s
true W.J.M.: There are men in
the office who think that that was the
best horsebreaking yarn The Bulletin
ever printed D.J.: If you want to
know what we want, read the paper,
then send us something better
W.M.S.: That paddock has been
grazed too bare C. 8.; As rough
as a yearling colt, but worth an hour’s
work with the currycomb. ...8.5.:
The first requirement in telling a yarn
is to have a yarn to te11.,. .H.A.:
“Clancy” doe'sn’t thrill us. By the
way, isn’t anybody who drives sheep
ever called by any other name but
Clancy?... .C.N'.A.: The gist of your
yarn could have been written in half
a dozen sentences... .F.K.: That
reprobate has been using that trick
as long as we can remember....
G.L.L.: A collection of stale ‘ im-
pressions... .P.S.: All talk and no
incident A.J.F.: You described
the boarding-house so well that we
could almost smell the cabbage boil-
ing; the suicide of the star boarder
was an unreal intrusion... .C.R.: The
man who squeezes bis typewritten
fines so close that a sub-editor’s pen
can’t crawl in between them puts a
heavy handicap on his contribution.
M.B.C.: Horace may have won
the girl but he wins you no bank-
notes G.H.D.: Sick-bed repen-
tance occurs too often in fiction of
that type .J.R.T.: Not ill-done, but
the themes are top hackneyed....
R.E.M.: No vacant site here for your
little hut.., .H.L.: Returning “Bill
the Boozer” S.T.: You make
heavy going of an unimpressive
imitation of Lawson... .G.R.: Only
the skeleton of a yarn A.J.: Dull.
C.K.: It would need a “Kodak”
to extract a laugh from that incident.
S.E.: You haven’t the faintest
notion of how a yarn should be
written J.P.J.: You write just
like a Parliamentary draftsman....
R. 8.: Evidently all you know about
the place has been learned at the
talkies C.D.8.: Australians must
eat fearful suppers judging from the
dream stories we receive... .D.A.S.:
Had a funeral-march to the basket.
P.S.M.: Declaration that you in-
tend to forsake fiction-writing noted
with great joy by all hands at 252
George-street T.W.W.: If you had
studied your market you wouldn’t
have sent it here... .B.B.: Exciting
enough for readers under 14,
The Snake.
(Country Hawking Tours in a Waggon.)
[After trading among the surrounding
inhabitants of Camperdown we had the
horse’s shod, greased the wheels of the
waggon and set off on our return journey
to Colac, our intention being to follow
a route leading to Geelong which would
give us a outlet to seaside localities.
While encamped at noon on the roadside
to partake lunch we perceived a snake
make good its escape from off a fallen
log.]
While encamped at noon
Upon the roadside
We perceived a snake
From off a log glide.
In a flash from view
The viper did pass,
Made its escape neath
A patch of grass.
BLACK AND WHITE
BY J. H. M. ABBOTT.
THE Australian aboriginal
represents the most archaic
people now existing on
earth.
The earliest Europeans,
Asiatics and Africans had to
struggle for survival against
bison, rhinoceros, tiger, lion,
bear and hyena. Our Aus-
tralians’ animal adversaries
hardly counted as enemies at dll.
The blackfellow’s racial con-
temporaries scarcely mattered.
Such development as has been
his ha|s occurred! without the
competition of any other sort of
man. When it did come, owing
to his unreadiness for it, the
black man went under. And the
story of his passing-out is one of
the most tragic tales in the
annals of humanity—all the
more a tragedy because it is only
imperfectly realised by his white
supplanters. All over the island-
continent it has been much the
same.
This story of something that
happened in Queensland a hun-
dred years ago is only a case in
point. Sorrow, demoralisation
and injustice—these three words
contain the whole lamentable
saga of the relationship between
, black and white as it concerned
the aboriginal. Consider the
Queensland affair.
When Andrew Petrie and
Stuart Russell rescued James
Davis (Durramboi) from the
natives of the Wide Bay district
in 1842 they found them
murderously hostile. There can
be no doubt that this was prin-
cipally due to a shameful filing
that had recently taken place at
Kilcoy station, on the upper
Brisbane River,, news of which
had spread amongst the natives
and filled them with an implac-
able hatred of all the white in-
vaders of their country.
A wholesale massacre of men.
women and children by poison-
ing with arsenic mixed in flour
had occurred on that holding
during its owner’s absence. It
is not to be wondered at that any
black man who heard of it
should have become possessed
of the deadliest hatred of a
people who could do such a
devilish thing.
Stuart Russell, in his Genesis
of Queensland, insists that the
outrage was committed by two
lonely shepherds. Their terror
of the blacks surrounding their
location, he says, induced the
white men to mix up arsenic used
for dipping scabby sheep with a
gift of flour they handed out to
the blacks. But there seems to
have been a much worse side
to the dreadful affair than this.
Evidence given years after-
wards before a select committee
of the first Queensland Parlia-
ment under responsible govern-
ment, which was inquiring into
the treatment of natives by white
settlers, leaves little doubt that
the poisoning was done at Kil-
coy head-station itself during
the owner’s absence. Compare
the Myall Creek affair in N.S.W.
about the same time.
A German missionary heard
the story from the blacks in the
Bunya country and sent it in
writing to the Rev. John Dun-
more Lang, who submitted it to
Sir George Gipps, the Governor
of N.S.W. —in which province
the Moreton Bay district was
still included. But Sir George
was not particularly interested,
regarding it rather as rumor than
a serious fact. So the doughty
doctor determined to force his
hand by publishing the letter
himself, but the absence of con-
vincing and watertight evidence
still found Gipps reluctant to
take action.
However, not only the official
records but also the reminiscent
gossip of pioneers and early
settlers would seem to admit that
this sort of wholesale poisoning
of natives who were troublesome
and dangerous to isolated out-
posts of white men really occur-
red more than once. By reason
of its use in sheep-dipping,
arsenic was nearly always avail-
able for such diabolical uses, and
ex-convict stockmen and shep-
herds, hardened and calloused
by their own sufferings under
“the system,” weren’t the sort of
people to whom the infamy of
such crime would be much of a
deterrent. And it wasn’t easy
for the authorities, as Gipps
must have sorrowfully realised,
to obtain the necessary evidence
that would‘mean the conviction
of such wholesale murderers.
Though not by him, humanity
to the blacks was generally re-
garded as almost criminal weak-
ness. There was nothing that
mightn’t be done to check their
interference with the flocks and
herds. Men like Gipps might
seek to save the blacks, but it
wasn’t always possible. The
Queen’s writ didn’t always run
as fast and as far as it should
have in the bush of those days.
Binghi wasn’t easily to be pro-
tected against his invaders.


BRIEFODYSSEY
BY CHARLES
SHAW
’ KNOW what’ll happen,” Gun-
\ J boat declared as, puffed-up with
y bad news, he leaned against the
t gate. “We’ll get the cuts, that’s
what we’ll get. An’ Chingy’s got chil-
blains,” he added, eyeing Chingy’s swollen
fingers with sadistic anticipation.
Chingy gave Gunboat a sidelong look
and slyly shoved bis hands in his pockets.
Then he looked at me and grinned
feebly.
I regarded our position as being far
too grave to be lightened. When one is
nearly nine years old and is discovered
to be a participant in a plot to put a frill-
necked lizard in the desk of Miss Boland,
the third-class teacher, and is informed
by such an authority as Gunboat of what
the punishment will be, things like
Chingy’s chilblains and the probable effect
on them of two cuts per hand with a
cane fade into insignificance.
UNBOAT, who had begun school as
Walter Jones, was nearly ten. He
shouldn’t have been in our class, but a
lack of attention to those details which
teachers consider important, and a prefer-
ence for those which the same teachers
consider anathema, had somewhat re-
tarded his classical progress. He could
not get beyond his seven-times table nor
master the difference between a noun and
a verb, but he knew when and where the
sproggies nested, the hole in the paling-
fence around Smitheram’s orchard, how
to make and use a shanghai, and seven
English and one Spanish swearwords, the
latter having been added to his vocabu-
lary when helping himself to ripe
tomatoes from a plot on the creek.
We had always believed old Bonjee to
be an Italian, but Gunboat swore the
word was Spanish, and that ended it. My
father declared Bonjee to be a Mahratta,
but none of- us had ever heard of that
kind of man, and since Gunboat offered
to “job” anyone in the class who differed
from him the Spanish was accepted. As
near as I can remember the word, it was
gowk. To call anyone a gowk in our class
was the supreme profanity. It was also
trespass, as the word belonged exclusively
to Gunboat.
He was a year older and some-
what bigger than anybody else in
the class, red-headed, ragged, rugged,
could spit 14 feet 10 inches, played
rover in the “big boys’ ” football
team, seldom wore boots and was as
belligerent and indomitable as a bull-ant.
“We might even get. six cuts each,”
Gunboat suggested, with an indifference
which I admired but couldn’t simulate.
I stole a look at Chingy. He was staring
through the gate at the children playing
in the grounds as though he considered it
an offence against nature for them to be
laughing and shouting while we faced
unspeakable torture, not from the cane
so much as from the gratified faces of
the class as. they looked on. Chingy’s
part in the plot was small. He had
merely brought the lizard to school. It*
was Gunboat who conceived the grand
idea. It was I who placed the reptile in
the desk while he kept watch along the
passage.
I COULD see that Gunboat regarded
* Chingy as being presumptive. After
all, the mere bringing of the lizard to
school hardly entitled him to share in
either the notoriety or the penalty for
the subsequent result,
Chingy was a disappointment to us in
other ways. A Chinese, the son of Ah
Gee, the storekeeper whom we confidently
believed to be in league with Barbary
pirates, and who was known to do spells
in the back of his shop after dark —
hadn’t Mollie King, going past one night
with her mother, looked fearfully through
the darkened window and seen green
smoke? —we expected Chingy to be able
to swear, spit and produce a dragon at
any tick of the clock, whereas he- had
been imbued or inoculated by the Sun-
day-school teacher, and was held up to us
backsliding Christians by our Christian
parents as the very model of a young
Christian gentleman.
“Y* know what we’ll do,” Gunboat
declared. “We’ll clear out. Who wants
the rotten ol’ school, anyhow? We kin
git jobs in Broken Hill. They use boys
there t’ drive the ponies in the mines. Y’
don’t have no school an’ they pay y’
seven-an’-six a week.”
Broken Hill was about 850 miles away
by airline and the ponies were a sheer
fabrication, but we didn’t know that.
WE pushed our schoolbags under the
boxthorn hedge and, bent double,
ran round the corner, across the road,
through the empty stock saleyards, along
a street and then slowed down, panting
and feeling that everybody who saw us
knew what we were about, and would run
straight off to tell Mr. Chapman about it.
However, as the time passed that feel-
ing evaporated, to be succeeded by one of
elation as we began to savor our freedom.
We explored an empty house, finding
nothing, and then headed towards the
main street, where we looked in the shop-
windows and discussed what we’d buy if
only one or other of us had some money.
At this stage Chingy produced two-
pence, and was promptly appointed chief
providore of the party and sternly ordered
by Gunboat to hand over the cash so
that he (Gunboat) could spend it to the
best advantage. It panned out at a whole
liquorice-strap for Gunboat, half a one
each for Chingy and me, and a sherbet-
sucker from which Chingy was allowed
one full suck and me two, Gunboat tak-
ing the balance.
Thus fortified, we bypassed the shop
where my father worked, and came back
into the main street in time to see two
men climb a telegraph-pole and do things
to the cups and wires. This sight in-
spired Gunboat, and we withdrew to an
unmade side-street, where we filled our
pockets with gravel and spent an interest-
ing half-hour trying to break telegraph-
cups, using the gravel as missiles from
Gunboat’s shanghai.
Our leader maintained his reputation
by shattering two cups ; Chingy and I
couldn’t even hit one. A little man with-
out a hat rushed out and yelled at us
from a house and we fled. Somewhere
in the flight we acquired a dirty, disre-
putable, ginger-and-white dog which ran
With us, barking and leaping.
We knew where there was a disused
quarry, and we ran down into it
and hid among rubbish and bushes,
watching the dog prospect around for
whatever wild animals might be hidden
there. All signs of pursuit having died
down, we went out the far side of the
quarry and headed back for the main
street, the ginger-and-white dog marching
with us.
“He’ll be handy for catchin’ rabbits
when we get out in the bush,” said Gun-
boat.
As we reached the shops again we
heard the noon whistle from the flour-
mill, and all three of us stopped dead and
looked upon each other with stricken
faces. Our lunches were in the school-
bags under the boxthorn.
“There’s some apples up in the Church
of England vicarage, near our place,” I
suggested.
1i P) ON’T be Uncle Willy,” snorted
Gunboat. “Y’ go up there an’ y’
mother sees y’, what y’ reckon’ll happen
then?”
I didn’t dare think of it.
“Y’ know what we’ll do,” declared
Gunboat. “We’ll wait here while Chingy
sneaks inf his of man’s shop an’ gets
some pies.”
“He doesn’t sell pies,” announced
Chingy promptly.
“Well, German sausage or somethin’.”
“He don’t sell that.”
“Well, what about fried fish?”
“Don’t be mad. It’s a fancy-goods!”
This with a contempt for Gunboat's
ignorance which was neither Christian
nor Oriental.
“Huh. Fancy havin’ a store an’ sellin’
ol’ fancy goods. Your of man must be
dingbats,” snorted Gunboat.
“Whafs the good of him bein’ with
us?” I demanded, eager to show whose
side I was on.
The dog sat in the dust and dropped its
tongue out, waiting. I’ve an idea that
hound knew small boys.
“You better look out,” I said, warn-
ingly, to Chingy. “You better look out
an’ not give Gunboat any cheek.”
“Yah,” Chingy said. “Who put the
lizard in Miss Boland’s desk?”
This enraged me.
“You better look out,” I sneered.
“Old fancy-goods shop.”
This was a palpable blow, and I
could see by the look Gunboat gave
me that it had earned his approval,
Before I could see anything else a
hard and bony Chinese fist hit me in
the belly and I doubled up with shock
and pain.
‘£ I WASN’T lookin’,” I yelped. “Y*
* can’t hit a man when he isn't
lookin’.”
“That’s right,” declared Gunboat.
“You better look out, Chingy. That ain’t
fair.” •
Chingy had drawn off a little and was
looking at me with a peculiar expression,
though whether he was. shocked by his
serious breach of the rules or by the fact
that he had punched a bigger boy and the
bigger boy hadn’t annihilated him, I
couldn’t tell.
“Yes,” I asserted. “You better look
out, all right, Chingy. You wait till 1
get y’.”
“Y’ know what,” Gunboat declared,
and stopped.
He was looking across the road at a
bakery with a keen, calculating look. I
followed his eyes. So did Chingy and
so, presumably, did the dog. Anyhow,
the dog got up and trotted across the
road, and went in at the open bakery
door and came out again and looked at
us. Then it smelled all along the front
of the shop and went in the door again.
We crossed the road and peered curi-
ously into the shop. The dog lay against
the counter, its head on its forepaws.
The door at the rear of the shop was
closed. On the counter, under a glass
dome, was a heap of yeast buns.
We eyed the dog, the buns, the closed
door and each other.
i ‘ M k® dog,” whispered
Gunboat, wonderingly.
He stepped quietly into the shop,
watching dog and door. Chingy gave a
little whimper of fear and sidled along
the street. I withdrew to a strategic posi-
tion in the middle of the road. I could
watch Gunboat, the dog, the door and all
approaches to the front of the shop.
My heart swelled and my mouth went
dry with fearful excitement as Gunboat’s
hand rose, lifted the glass dome, put it
aside, grabbed buns and stowed them
inside his shirt. The dog was standing up
beside him, wagging its tail.
Gunboat began to back out. The dog
looked interested. It glanced back at the
closed door as though it expected some-
thing. Then it moved after Gunboat.
Gunboat threw it a bun. It wolfed the
bun and wagged its tail. Gunboat’s nerve
failed. He turned and shot out of the
door and went racing madly along the
street. I raced ahead of him and ahead
of me raced Chingy. The dog raced with
us for a while, but saw another dog and
stopped to tell it about us and we didn’t
see it again.
We got into a corner by a high paling
fence, screened from the street by a clump
of marshmallows, and panted and blew
and peered with trepidation through the
screen. But nobody appeared and Gun-
boat unloaded himself of seven buns. He
eyed them with justified pride.
“Y’ know what,” he said, “That’s two
for youse two an’ three for me. Who did
the dirty work?” he demanded, effectively
squashing debate before it could arise,
“I don’t want any,” Chingy declared.
WE stared at him blankly, our mouths
full of bun.
“God,” said Chingy, “won’t love
people who pinch things,”
That stumped me. I kept on chewing
the bun* but it didn’t seem to taste as
nice. I looked to the leader.
“It ain’t the same when y’re hungry,”
Gunboat announced. “The police can get
y’ for pinchin’ money an’ that, but it
ain’t pinchin’ when y’rq hungry.”
“It is,” asserted Chingy.
“You better look out, Chingy,” Gun-
boat warned. “I never pinched them buns
an’ y’ better not go round sayin’ I did, see.”
“Well, you didn’t buy them,” retorted
Chingy in obvious triumph.
“You better look out,” I said. “Don’t
you go givin’ Gunboat any cheek.”
“Stealing is a sin,” chanted Chingy,
“You shut up, Jammy,” warned Gun-
boat. His eyes were fixed on Chingy
balefully, and I could see little white
patches coming and going in his cheeks.
“Y’ better eat a bun, Chingy,” he said.
Chingy arose and backed off a couple
of steps.
“I’m going home,” he said, disdainfully.
“God won’t love you if you steal.”
UNDER his close-cropped black hair
his slanting eyes watched us inscru-
tably. I shivered, for I lived in a strict
Christian home, and frightening visions
of the wrath of the Almighty were dis-
turbing my mind. The bun suddenly
tasted like sawdust, and surreptitiously I
spat it out. I stole a look at Gunboat.
He was looking at Chingy, and his usually
ruddy face was pale.
“Y’ know what I’ll do to y’ if y’ don't
look out,” he declared. “I never stole
them. If y’ go into a shop an’ there’s
nobody there, how can y’ buy them?”
“You never had no money,” Chingy
cried.
“What’s that gotta do with it? If y’ go
in an’ there’s nobody there y’ can’t buy
them, so y’ hafta just get what y’ want.
That’s the law. It ain’t stealin’ at all,
’cos there’s nobody there.”
Chingy licked his lips and eyed the
remaining buns, obviously weakening.
Gunboat clinched his argument: “If y’
find a penny in the road with nobody
there it’s yours, ain’t it? Well, what’s the
difference if it’s a few ol’ buns an’
nobody’s there?”
“I suppose,” Chingy said, “it’s different
when you’re hungry* too.”
He sat down and reached for a bun.
THE beach was a mile or so from the
town, and the afternoon was well
on by the time we’d tramped through the
sand-dunes and crossed the railway-line.
We put a few stones on the rails and
waited, but no train came, so we went
on. The day was fairly warm, and we
shed our clothes and ran about in the
breakers and yelled, and Gunboat ducked
Chingy and me. Then we lay in the sand
for a while and talked of many things. A
very large grasshopper appeared from
somewhere and Gunboat captured it.
It was the biggest grasshopper we’d
ever seen, so we decided to take it up to
the local museum, where, Gunboat was
convinced, they’d pay at least a pound for
it. We got dressed and headed back for
the town, Gunboat with the grasshopper
in his shirt-pocket. When we got up
from the beach we noticed that the sun
was setting. About this time, too, our
stomachs disposed of the last of the buns
and began to crave further nourishment.
The closed doors of the museum con-
fronted us in the dusk. We debated what
to do with the grasshopper, and Gunboat
finally decided to keep it, since there
would be museums in the towns we
passed through on the way to Broken
Hill.
WE started off through the darkened
streets, keeping close together and
rather silent, walking without purpose,
because we didn’t know where we were
going. Lights were coming on in the
houses and we could hear voices. There
were smells of wood fires and frying
chops and onions on the air. At a
corner we stopped. Chingy had drawn
within himself. I looked to the leader.
He didn’t fail me.
“Y* know what we’ll do,” he said.
“We’ll clear out t’morrow after school.
Then we kin all go home t’night an’ have
a good rest an’ get them t’ cut us
whoppin’ big lunches t’morrow.”
Chingy and I hailed this decision with
a bursting relief and the admiration due
to a great planner. Then each of us
turned for home, suddenly Idnely and
afraid, but glad to be going home, at any
rate.


MONDAY
MORNING
BY ESME
STRATHDEE
IT was terribly hard for the Baker
children to get away to school on
time. But Monday was the worst.
Then, even Janie couldn’t infuse
speed into the actions of her sisters.
Janie had a phobia about being late
for anything. She rose at five and milked
her allotted number of cows, sped on
skinny, freckled legs to the house to
gobble up her quota of fried eggs and
then began to frenziedly change her
clothes and wash herself.
“We’ll be late,” was the constant cry
upon her lips, as she frantically urged
the others to hurry. “It’s ten past seven
and I know we’ll be late.” Time was
ever her enemy and she fought it des-
perately, knowing no peace. Janie was
eleven.
On Mondays the school books could
never be found.
“Eff had my history in the lavatory.
She always does read down there. Every-
body knows it, too, so there!”
Eff hung her head. It was shame-
fully true. She read anything she could
get her hands on. And the world went
on around you while you were lost in
the pages of a book.
“K A Y notebook’s gom! Oh, Mother,
»Y 1 where’s my notebook? It’s not
in my bag.” The tragedy of lost books.
The horror of what would become of
pupils who just sat woodenly in the face
of a stem command to “Open geo-
graphy at page 68,” and all the evidence
of industry symbolised by rapidly turned,
rustling pages by those scholars who
never seemed to lose a book.
“We’ll he late,” cried Janie, standing
at the top of the stairs with her hat and
shoes on, her square, shabby schoolbag
on her narrow shoulders,
“Are the horses saddled?” Mrs.
Baker came to the door with a baby on
her hip. She was never seen without a
baby on her hip or at her breast. But
they were happy babies, and with her
anxiously good-humored face smiling, she
always seemed gratified to have the baby
there.
“Dolly is.” Janie rode Dolly. A
round-barrelled, cream-colored pony
mare with a long black tail and a mane
like smoke. She ambled along beauti-
fully, undeterred by the fact that she had
to carry Janie and Eff eight miles every
day. “And I’m not waiting for that
Eff. She’s a lazy little stinker, with her
nose always in a book.”
“Give Eff a chance, Janie.” Mrs.
Baker had a face like an Indian’s, placid
and rather greasy, and her black hair was
swept away from it hastily, leaving
strands trailing. She smiled indulgently.
“She’s nearly dressed. Dad should have
pulled Dolly’s tail. Lady’s, too. They’re
getting that long.”
Long, trailing tails were dangerous to
child riders. They caused accidents. Just
like saddles.
Mrs. Baker would not allow her
children to use saddles until they turned
thirteen. Against pleas and tears, pro-
tests and reasoning, she remained
obdurate. The children rode with a corn-
sack folded over the horse’s back.
“If you’d seen Ted killed ...” she
would warn, her eyes darkening with the
horror of remembrance. “Dragged along
the ground he was, his foot caught in
the stirrup and his horse galloping,
galloping. That was a mad horse. The
way it would fling its head up was proof
for you. Terribly smashed up he
was . . .” And the younger children
would shudder at the horror of it, but
long more than ever for a real saddle.
Bess went down to saddle Lady, a big,
rangy black mare who had been a sulky
horse once. Janie shrilled to Eff to
hurry up and bustled her off, still trying
to tie on her hat. There was no money
for bicycles. But horses abounded, even
in the worst years, because Dad could
never resist a bargain where a horse was
concerned.
Mrs, Baker kissed the children. Tom
on a spirited little pony that had been
ridden in a show on one eventful occa-
sion. Janie and Eff on the rotund Dolly,
Bess on awkward old Lady. “Don’t
race, now,” Mrs. Baker warned. “Re-
member the Lord’s watching when I can’t
be. And tell Mr. McGoy that our Jim’s
sick today.” Jim wasn’t sick at all, but
he and the packhorse and the dogs and
a rusty .303 had gone to assist in the
mustering.
DOLLY ambled off, her hard little
round hooves cutting circles like
scones in the damp earth. The girls’
legs hung down each side of the mare’s
belly, and when they got to school they
would have dirty rubbed patches to wash
from their legs.
Chink of bridle and clip of hooves.
Bright morning sun on the wet grass, on
the gently turning leaves, and Dolly’s
last foal running behind as far as the
wire gate. Bess came cantering up,
making thunder as her mare flung her-
self along the road in an effort to catch
up. Bess was a big girl of fourteen,
touchy about a lot of things, including
her red hair, her lumpy build and Eff’s
bad language. She rode in a saddle,
rising hastily up and down when Lady
trotted, her whole manner suggestive of
superiority.
Dolly’s foal was shut in. They passed
out on to the council road and were
joined by other children.
“Y’r old man can’t afford two saddles.
Yah!” This from Debby Clark on top
of a mane-tossing grey gelding, saddle
and bridle glistening with neatsfoot oil,
buckles winking frightfully, and the grey’s
coat shining with grooming and good
feed. Debby Clark’s father owned two
racehorses and had ridden in the city
show-ring.
“We’ve got eleven saddles at home,”
Eff lied promptly. “But we’re not
allowed to use them till we’re thirteen.
Because Mum’s cousin was killed from a
horse.”
“Why don’t you ride triple-bank?
Then you’d be proper safe. My word,
it’s dangerous, letting you go out of the
paddock.” Debby laughed. He wore
spurs on occasion, and there was no limit
to his grandeur.
The Bakers were silent and ashamed.
And yet —Eff loved her father’s shabby
saddle. Loved it as she knew she never
could love a brand-new one. He’d slept
on it in all weathers; it had been to
the Territory several times with cattle ;■
it had been astride outlaws and it had
flashed past the winning-post of countless
country meetings, sometimes in front,
more often bringing up the tail of the
field. Eff loved its worn leathers, the
lines where sweat had traced white veins.
She loved, too, her grandmother’s side-
saddle, straddling a rod now under the
old house. It had a horn in front, and
sometimes the kids played riding through
the bush on it, racing for dear life away
from the naked blacks who emerged from
the wasting grapevines complete with
spears and pidgin English.
She loved the little pad in which her
eldest brother had ridden his horse to
victory on a saltbush flat. She loved
the old broken one Bess used, and the
rodeo saddle a travelling showman had
given Jim for finding his. lost buck-
jumpers.
But oh! The shame of riding to
school on a cornsack. The children walk-
ing along the road were better off.
Over the sandy ridge and the school-
house in sight. Two boys, kicking dirt
as they walked, chanted homework. Flies
on the horses’ rumps, and leafy switches
to brush them off.
11 T ANIE.” Eff leaned forward, the
better to breathe with heat of
shame in her sister’s ear. “I’ve come
without me pants.”
“You have not. They were put out
with your singlet and dress.” Janie dug
her heels into Dolly’s sweating side, try-
ing to make her increase her pace. She
was haunted by the dread of hearing the
school-bell ring before she .was through
the big wooden gates.
“I haven’t got any on now.” Fear in
Eff’s voice. She was only nine, but
much too old to have such a thing hap-
pen to her. It was impossible, but it
was true. She dropped her head, feeling
hot and cold all over. It was worse even
than the day she had been sick in Bible
class. All the worst things happened to
her.
Janie drew close to Bess and consulted
in muffled whispers. “What a little cow
she is.” Bess eyed her with bitterness.
Eternal war waged between Bess and Eff,
as the self-conscious adolescent tried in
vain to stem the flow of profanity that
was ever pouring from Eff’s lips. No-
thing seemed to cure her of swearing.
“You’ll have to take her home again,
Janie,”
“I can’t.” Janie’s eyes widened des-
pairingly. “It must be nearly nine.” No
time. No time to go back and return
before second bell. No time. “Dolly’s
so slow.”
“Yes, she is slow.” Bess pondered
profoundly.. She made a decision. “I’ll
take her then. But I won’t bring her
back to school. I’ll gallop all the way
back. Come on, then. Get on behind.”
And she steadied the cumbrous, wild-
eyed Lady close beside the compact cream
pony while Eff scrambled up behind her.
“What’s wrong?” The other children
gathered round curiously.
“Nothing.” Bess dug her heels in
vigorously. “Nothing for stickybeaks.”
Lady flung up her ugly head and set off
at a clumsy canter that yet swallowed
miles unobtrusively.
“Stop it, Bess. The bloody saddle’s
rubbing me legs raw.”
Bess delivered a badly-aimed blow.
“Take that for swearing.”
“O-ow! I’ll tell on you, I will, too.
I’ve got a skinner. You’re a swine, Bess
Baker.”
Bess rode grimly on, her skirts flapping
about her thighs. Her thin red plaits
floated behind her.
Mrs. Baker was astonished and
amused when the girls reached home.
She chided Eff kindly, cut Bess a thick
slab of bread and jam and saw her off
the premises once more.
“You’ve got a holiday out of it, any-
way,” she comforted.
BESS, taking a short-cut, had to lean
down over Lady’s neck and open a
sprung wire gate. Sam Baker’s gates
were notorious, and this one was no
better than any other he had constructed.
She unhooked the sapling from its wire
noose and it sprang back unexpectedly
out of her control.
Lady jerked back when the barbed
wire struck her neck. Her tail, her
sweeping, splendid black tail that should
have been shortened a year ago, caught
in a dangling length of barbed-wire.
Lady kicked out with sudden mad vigor.
The wire snapped free from the gate ;
Lady stepped forward to free herself from
the entanglement.
The length of barbed-wire went with
her. It brushed against her back legs
once again. In sudden terror she lashed
out, tearing the flesh and hide from the
bone. Her back legs were very thick and
hairy. Bess was trying to dismount, but
Lady, plunging wildly, would hot give
her an opportunity. With a snort she
flung up her head, her big, ugly head,
and was away, running across the pad-
dock without sense of direction, pos-
sessed by panic. The length of barbed-
wire flopped up and down upon her back
legs, maddening her.
It was a headlong, careering flight.
The pounding of her big, spread hooves
echoed away to the foothills, rolled like
thunder among the towering treetops.
Bess clung to her back, recognising the
hopelessness of ever guiding the bolting
animal and concentrating only on dodg-
ing limbs and trunks of trees as they
raced under and beside them.
Ahead lay the steep cutting which led
down to Duck Weed Lagoons. Bess
made a desperate effort to steer Lady’s
upflung head, to change the direction of
their crazy flight.
Nothing could have succeeded in that.
On they raced, on and on, to the very
brink of the gully where the ground
seemed to cut away from beneath Lady’s
very hooves. To the brink and over —
with Lady still galloping, galloping—her
hooves clawing at the air, groping for
solid earth —then losing her balance,
stumbling, faltering—jerking back—then
falling forward, rolling over and over,
down the grassy slope, until she reached
the bottom.
MRS; BAKER was going down to
the dairy to bring up the butter
cream. She nearly dropped the placid
baby from her hip. “My God!” she
said and turned pale.
Lady stood riderless at the gate, her
saddle awry, bridle-reins broken, big head
hanging sleepily.
The terror of a returning horse with
saddle and bridle and no rider. It had
always haunted Mrs. Baker, and made
her wish she had married a man who
didn’t live on the fringe of civilisation
and break in horses. Now Eff heard it
in her mother’s voice and was never to
forget it. There was dreadful certainty
in the terror. And the mare, all unaware
of it, standing with one leg slack, switched
flies away with a languid tail, let her
bottom lip hang and moved one ear
dreamily.
“Sam!” shrieked Mrs. Baker. “Sam,
come quick.”
Sam came. He took one look at Lady
and ran to saddle his own horse. His
presence s'eemed to give Mrs, Baker the
power to think. He was quick and silent,
but he was as reassuring as a familiar
rock.
“She had on a blue dress,” Mrs. Baker
directed, tearless and white. “Look for
the blue, Sam.”
Sam rode off. Somewhere in the bush,
or in the drying paddock, was a blue
dress. He must find it, and he would.
He knew every inch, every gully and
tree, every calf and bullock in this acre-
age of his. Mrs. Baker was left to
torture herself with visions of Ted’s hor-
rible death.
SAM found his daughter a few yards
over the brink of the gully. She was
sitting under a lantana-bush, among a
lot of bracken, holding her right arm
as if it hurt. Her blue dress was dusty
and speckled with bits of dried manure.
“What happened?” Sam dismounted
and started to fill his pipe. The relief was
very great. He felt shaken and upset,
and vaguely irritated.
“She got wire caught in her tail.”
“I’ll have to pull that animal’s tail.
Wonder you weren’t killed.” Bess pulled
her mouth down at the corners. She
hated her father’s habitual bad language,
blaming him for Eff’s shortcoming.
Rightly, too. He took her everywhere
with him, laughing when she picked up
a new profanity.
“Is your arm hurt much?”
“B/oken, I think.” She got to her
feet and with his help mounted the horse.
Sam got on behind.
He chuckled suddenly. “Mum’s got
you buried already,” he said. Then he
turned and looked down the slope. The
course of Lady’s catapulted body had
taken as it rolled downward was plainly
evident. “A bloody close shave, too, I
reckon, my girl,” he said soberly.
Bess shrugged angrily. She began to
sing in a squeaky soprano “Look Ever
to Jesus.” When she came to part
that goes “bad language disdain” she
sang her loudest, giving Sam a look of
great significance. He grinned indul-
gently. He was very fond of every one
of his nine children.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FRUITS OF ARROGANCE.
Now that “Russia has suc-
ceeded in getting directed against
itself what promises to be one
of the most formidable military,
political and economic alliances
in history” (i.e., the prospective
Atlantic Pact), the “fascinating
question” of why the Russians
should have embarked on a
course the only answer to which
could be some such defence
arrangement is looked into by
Joseph E. Evans, who has for
some years been doing a second-
to-none reporting job in Berlin
for “Wall-street Journal.”
Were the Russians, Evans
asks, motivated by stupidity,
naivete or blind greed, or have
they all along wanted this situa-
tion of which the prospective
pact is a symbol? He points out
that three years ago the Rus-
sians were still in possession of
such a degree of goodwill as
had never before been accorded
the Soviet Union. In Berlin their
then allies were outdoing each
other trying to be nice to them
-—both socially and in the Four-
Power councils. It was the Rus-
sians who cut themselves off
from social contacts, and it was
Russian policy which made a
joke of joint control of Ger-
many. “Such a crude and de-
liberate freezing of the springs
of affection seems on the face
of it idiotic. It is incredible that
they did not realise that goodwill
would give way to consternation,
then to a stiffening of attitude,
finally to open hostility.”
If they had operated differ-
ently—maintained the appear-
ance of co-operation and friend-
ship, not started the propaganda
cold war—they would, says
Evans, perhaps not now possess
as much territory as they do,
but they could have kept the
West weak and divided. If they
had treated what are now satel-
lites temperately instead of
brutally, they would have less
in the way of material plunder,
but they would have what they
do not have now, really friendly
neighbors. The goal would have
been unchanged, but the achieve-
ment of it would have been
gradual and skilful,
“Eventually, of course, the
—“ Stockholms-Tidningen,” Sweden.
THREE YEARS OF CO-OPERATION.
West might have awakened,
might have viewed with suspicion
Communist activities in Europe
and the world, traced the sup-
port of Communist parties to
the Kremlin, denounced them as
fifth-columns and begun to take
counter-measures. But it would
have been infinitely more diffi-
cult, and quite possibly too late.”
In Germany, he adds, the
slightest evidence of reasonable
co-operation would have won
for the Russians generous con-
cessions. Had they permitted
the creation of the central ad-
ministrative agencies for all Ger-
many required by Potsdam, “it
is true they could not have
sealed-off and so completely
stripped their zone, but what
they took out would have been
regarded with a tolerant eye on
the part of their allies; every-
one had the greatest sympathy
with Russia for what she had
lost in the war.
“More importantly, they
would have made it very awk-
ward for anyone effectively to
oppose the Soviet Union. If
some clear-seeing individuals in
America and the West had said;
‘This is all a sham; Russia is
carrying out a policy of aggres-
sion under the guise of co-opera-
tion,’ they would have been
shushed. The fact that Russia
was co-operating, however
superficially, would have been
all-important in a world eager
to have peace,”
The Soviet Union, in fact,
could have obscured its inten-
tions, could have allayed sus-
picion, kept potential opposition
powerless, could have for a very
long time prevented the re-arm-
ing and joint defence of the
West, while it was all the time
growing more powerful, even
reaping the economic benefits of
the Marshall Plan, until such
time as it was ready to spring—
and then there would have been
little to stand in its way.
“Instead, and we should
doubtless be thankful for it,
Russia has made the issue clear
and unavoidable. She has
created fear and loathing on an
almost universal scale, and she
has caused to be built up
against her such a unity of
opinion and such a strengthen-
ing of military defence that it
may shortly be questionable
whether the Soviet Union would
have any chance at all, either by
direct attack or by subversion or
both, against the democracies of
the West.
. “This was surely not her aim.
It is doubtful, indeed, if Rus-
sian post-war policy has been,
in its application, anything like
the coherent entity we often
think of it as being. Perhaps
its most serious failing has been
miscalculation; assuming, on
the one hand,,, that Western
Europe was weak and would
stay so, an easy prey; on the
other, that America would with-
draw into its shell of pre-war
isolationism.”
Faced now for the first time
with the beginnings of formid-
able military opposition, Russia,
in Evans’s view, may very well
feel decisive action is necessary
in the immediate future, before
the Atlantic Pact materialises,
“Western diplomacy has
favored the assumption that
Russia does not want war now,
and, all things being equal, that
is probably correct, since time
was to her advantage as long as
there was no organised opposi-
tion. The emergence of the
Atlantic Pact, which Russia
neither intended nor perhaps
thought possible but which her
essentially stupid policy nonethe-
less forced into being, may very
conceivably have changed that.
“Now it is the Western nations
which need time to co-ordinate
and build up the defence system
envisaged by the Atlantic Pact,
and it is Russia who may now
have to decide (or has decided)
between immediate attack or de-
ferring for a very long time to
come her plans for world
hegemony.”
The writer sees as a straw in
the wind the increased emphasis
lately being given in Russian
propaganda to so-called war-
mongering in the West. “This
may, of course, be simply Rus-
sia’s attempt to discredit the
Atlantic Pact. But one cannot
afford to ignore the possibility
that it is also laying the psycho-
logical groundwork—placing the
guilt in advance—for a war
which may some day come by
inadvertence.”
The Tito Heresy.
Continued rumblings on the
Kremlin - Belgrade front,
recorded in cables, are carefully
analysed and rated of the highest
significance in a current “Satur-
day Evening Post” article by
Edgar Snow, who looks back to
the original break some six
months ago as now proved to
have been “the most significant
development in the inner his-
tory of the world Communist
movement since the Kremlin
established absolute domination
over that movement.”
It is as a challenge to that “ab-
solute domination” that Snow
finds the “Tito heresy” so im-
portant, particularly in relation
to the “cold war”: “Tito and
the Kremlin both fully realise
that, they are engaged in a duel
which has at stake nothing less
than Russia’s hegemony ovdr the
world Communist organisation
and the future Communist uni-
versal State. No compromise
between them is now possible.
What was the rebellion of ’4B
may be the beginning of the
battle of the century.”
In time, the “Post” corre-
spondent believes, the Yugoslav
defection will be seen to have
set up the first effective frontier
against the expansion of world
Communism as an extension of
Russian nationalism, and will
also be seen to have marked a
limit to Russia’s “peaceful ab-
sorption” of neighboring coun-
tries ; “the Kremlin’s monopoly
of moral authority over the
world movement has been
gravely weakened.”
In its “cold-war” connection
the break must have brought
home to the Kremlin realisa-
tion that “the satellite coun-
tries themselves could not be
counted as true assets” in the
event of an early war: “In par-
ticular, the potential risk of
Poland and Hungary— not to
mention Soviet Germany—fol-
lowing Belgrade’s example must
haunt the Russian high com-
mand.”
Hence, as this correspondent
interprets it, “Now, even more
than a year ago, Stalin must
have peace, must view the out-
come of a major war as filled
with the most profound uncer-
tainties, and seek to avoid or
delay it. Following the destruc-
tion of German power, the
Kremlin leaders no doubt hoped
that all Europe would soon fall
under their hegemony. Partly
due to their own ignorance of
other countries, and to major
psychological blunders in politi-
cal strategy, partly due to the
technological revolution' begun
by the atomic bomb, Russian
leadership has been largely dis-
credited throughout Western
Europe including, now, its
‘own] Yugoslavia. Today the
Russians are nearly ready to
write off all real hopes of power
—for the present—beyond their
own zones of occupation.”
The “Post” correspondent
sees the Kremlin as now taking
up the objective of disengaging
itself “from the war-crisis with
the Western Powers, particularly
the United States, by accepting
the division of Germany as a
legal fact, and the demarcation
line and basis for a new bal-
ance - of - power system in
Europe.” Moscow, he believes,
cannot defer such a settlement
much “it is not far off.”
Altogether, on these and other
grounds, he sees the immediate-
war crisis as receding :
“Militarily, the Kremlin can-
not for a moment seriously think
of starting a war while it lacks
atomic parity, and thus far it
lacks even the ‘toy’ bomb of
Hi roshima. Economically,
Russia is still much too back-
ward to wage a great aggressive
war against the Western world
with success. Politically, the
defection of Yugoslavia has ex-
posed her ‘own’ internal struc-
ture as vulnerable. The Polit-
buro must either find a new
—London "Daily Herald.”
THE SQUATTER.
means of restoring its undis-
puted leadership in the ‘universal
church’ or be compelled to rely
upon the ancient means of force
alone.
“The men of the Kremlin
have many blind spots; they
have the weaknesses of all over-
developed specialists. But they
are not stupid ; neither are they
mad. They are patient, cautious,
cunning—and just now rather
frightened—politicians, feeling
their way through a forest of
contradictions, partly of their
own making. They are likewise
very good chess-players. And in
this game they will play for a
peace by stalemate rather than
risk the one move by which they
could lose the whole match.
After all, they are sure, there is
another game coming, and per-
haps another. When the Polit-
buro has a strong enough hand
it will play for a victory, but not
before. Just now the stronger
pieces are not on its side of the
board.”
For these reasons, the writer
believes that “Sometime soon —
perhaps this winter, perhaps
next spring—Russia may be ex-
pected to offer a cold armistice
to halt the cold war in Europe,”
J. Bull’s Ships.
British Minister of Transport
Barnes, speaking at the South-
ampton Master Mariners’ Club:
“We [Britain] came out of the
war with a deficiency of some-
thing like 4,000,000 tons in the
strength of our merchant fleet,
and during the past three years
over 50 per cent, of the world's
construction has been carried out
in British shipyards. In those
three years 75 per cent, of the
deficiency in tonnage has been
made good. We are now about
1,000,000 tons short of the ship-
ping strength we had before the
war, and I think that by 1950 the
British merchant fleet will again
be supreme on the seven seas.”
Against that picture, however,
must be set one drawn by Main
Steamship Co. managing-director
Sir George Christopher, who, at
the launching of a new motor-
ship for the company, stated that
“when the shipbuilders eventu-
ally disclose the price of the
vessel it will be staggering.”
He added that unless builders
and contractors could combine
to bring down costs, the time
must come, if it had not already
arrived, when there could be no
more orders except for special
types of ships.
Anglo-Jap Alliance!
It’s a long time since any-
thing like the heading on this
item appeared in print: it crops
up in an Bast-Asia article by
the Washington correspondent
of London -“Times.”
The correspondent interprets
the U.S. official attitude towards
Chiang Kai-shek’s Nationalist
Government in China as one of
seeing no qualities of “honesty,
efficiency or liberalism” there,
but he finds an entirely different
feeling about “the old enemy,
Japan.”
He notes little U.S, belief in
the much-advertised story of the
supposed growth of democracy
among the Japs in the last three
years ; the belief rather is “that
Japanese industry and efficiency
can be put to good use in the
struggle against Communism”:
“The policy of rebuilding
Japan has two motives. One is
the familiar and understandable
one —which is duplicated in
Germany—of saving the Ameri-
can taxpayer from continuing
subsidies (the goal is to make'
Japan self-supporting by 1952-
53), the other to make her the
barrier to Communism in the
East.”
That policy the correspondent
sees continuing no matter
whether Democrats or Republi-
cans control America ; and, he
concludes, “It would not be sur-
prising if, within 30 years of the
signature of the Washington
Naval Conference, there were
suggestions in the United States
for a new Anglo-Japanese
alliance.”
A Separate Peace.
On what it considers well-
informed authority, N. Y.
“Daily News” declares that
“Moscow is cooking up a
separate peace” with its occu-
pied section of Germany. These
developments are expected:
' “The Communists in Russia’s
occupation zone, carefully
guided from the Kremlin, would
set up an alleged Government
for eastern Germany. Then,
with appropriate fanfare, a
‘peace conference’ would be
held, and in due time —pre-
sumably next spring—a peace
treaty would be signed. Red
Army occupation forces would
be pulled out, with the Kremlin
making big propaganda about
how it was leaving the Eastern
Germans to govern themselves
while the Western ‘imperialists’
held on to Bizonia or Trizonia.”
That would leave the Krem-
lin still in control, through the
big “police force” built up in
the Soviet occupation zone —at
least so long as that force stayed
loyal. »
Motives ascribed for the
“peace”-move are: “The Red
Army has pretty well stripped
Eastern Germany by now, so
that it can no longer get its liv-
ing off the land” ; hence “Stalin
and Co., whose own slaves are
eating none too heartily, would
like to cut the cost of maintain-
ing their soldiers in Eastern
Germany.” Also, “The Kremlin
hopes for big propaganda re-
sults from the expected hogwash
about how it is leaving the east
Germans to run their own
affairs.”
“Actually,” comments the
“News,” “we can’t see the pre-
dicted separate peace making
much change, if any, in the cold
war. The Western Powers are
almost sure not to pull out of
their occupation zones, since by


1
SCHWEPPES
Q
a
LEMON JUICE
CORDIAL
Made from the Juice of
fresh Lemons
OBTAINABLE FROM ALL LEADING STORES AND HOTELS
doing so they would only open
the gates tb the Reds from the
east. And they haven’t built up
a non-Communist ‘police force’
to match the Russians’ so-called
cops—though they might be
wise to do so, beginning now.
“It’s just possible, too, that if
Stalin does take his, troops out
of there his German Reds will
shortly go back to their loyalty
to their own country, as Tito’s
boys have done in Yugoslavia.
Joe would then have a pretty
problem.
“All in all, this separate-peace
monkey business ought to be
extremely interesting.”
U.N.O. Futility.
Returning to his attack on
U.N.O. Secretary-General Lie
and Assembly president Dr.
Evatt, for “their ill-judged ex-
periment in appeasement,” by
which “the prestige of the U.N.
was further undermined,”
William Henry Chamberlin
summed up, in “Wall-street
Journal,” on the entire U.N.O.
flop:—
“The few positive contribu-
tions to peace and settlement of
minor disputes which can
accurately be claimed for the
U.N. could just as well have been
achieved by the individual efforts
of single Powers or groups of
Powers. The exhausting pro-
longed annual sessions which
make such heavy demands on
the time and energy of states-
men and diplomats register little
but bickering, with the lines of
controversy so clearly drawn
that a reasonably intelligent ob-
server can usually anticipate the
substance of what will be said.
“The real hope of preserving
peace and security today does
not lie in the United Nations, still
less in any impractical blueprint
for world government. It lies in
American ability to organise and
sustain such a powerful unified
bloc of nations which have thus
far escaped Soviet domination
that the tide of Communist
aggression can be stopped and,
in time, rolled back. This is the
■feasible practical answer to the
chronicles of futility which have
so far been written at the
sessions of the U.N.”
Nationalisation Costs.
Declaring in his presidential
address to the Liverpool Indus-
trial Council that Britain “is go-
ing into debt at the rate of
£1,000,000 a day,” Sir Francis
Joseph gave the cost of nation-
alising industry as the cause.
—Atlanta (U.S.A.) “Constitution.”
THE LAMB WAS SURE TO GO.
adding that the position would
become even more serious as
Marshall aid was reduced.
“What sorry records the
nationalised industries present —
coal failing to achieve its target,
and the prospects for the export
of British coal in the future
menaced by the recovery of this
industry in foreign countries,” he
said, “Before the mines were
nationalised there were 15,000
officials and salaried staff, and
their cost amounted to 2£d. a
ton. Today there are 22,000
officials and their cost is Is. Bd,
a ton.”
He added that he doubted
whether the workers realised that
nationalised industries today
were costing the country—by loss
in profit, increased costs, and re-
duced income-tax contributions
to the State—no less than
£350,000,000 a year.
China Dilemma.
The tough dilemma which the
Chinese Communists’ success
poses for the U.S. has been
practically the main topic in the
American press, eclipsing even
Berlin.
What is happening in China,
a “Wail-street Journal” writer
comments, ‘‘is not a transfer of
power from a less popular to a
more popular Chinese faction,”
which Americans might view
with detached indifference. What
actually is happening, instead, is
“the conquest of the most popu-
lous country in Asia by men
who are avowed allies of Mos-
cow in its design to spread
world revolution”:
“China’s Mao Tse-tung is
playing in the same team with
Bulgaria’s Dimitrov, Poland’s
Bier u t, Hungary’s Rakosi,
Rumania’s Ana Pauker. He has
made this clear in books and
speeches which make nonsense
of the silly fiction that the
Chinese Communists are just a
kind of mild Jeffersonian
agrarian reformers.
“The possible establishment of
Communist power over the
whole of China, a development
that seems to be lightly
in Washington, will have reper-
cussions far beyond China’s
frontiers. It will give Moscow
tremendous leverage for the con-
quest of the Asiatic continent.
“There are important Chinese
colonies in Siam, in Malaya, in
the Philippines, in the Nether-
lands East Indies. Some of their
members will become natural
transmission-belts for the sub-
versive orders of the new rulers
of China, The European Re-
covery Programme will be ex-
posed to an attack in the rear as
important sources of strategic
raw materials and dollar earn-
ings for Britain, France and The
Netherlands will be exposed to
an accelerated revolutionary
offensive. Our [U.S.] position in
Japan, militarily, politically and
economically, will be worsened.
This is perhaps even more true
as regards Korea.”
In the writer’s view, however
and American comments
from practically all quarters
element of wishful thinking in it.
N. Y. “World - Telegram”
strongly debunks the frequently-
made claim regarding huge mili-
tary help sent by the U.S. to
China, specifically the stated
total of $2,000,000,000 or more
such aid since the Jap war
ended:
“The figure is grossly mislead-
agree with this —even those
serious considerations do not
warrant any large-scale Ameri-
can intervention in China:
“With its vast distances and
poor communications, China is
the easiest country in the world
for an*'invading army to bog
down in. The Japanese would
probably have discovered this
and retired ultimately in baffled
frustration if the chain of events
in the Far East had not led up
to Pearl Harbor.” An argu-
ment which, of course, has a fair
—Minneapolis ( U.S.A. ) “Tribune.”
ASIA FOR THE ASIATICS.
ing in giving the public the im-
pression that we [U.S.A.] have
done a lot for Chiang Kai-shek.
The fact is the opposite. Our
Government has repeatedly
washed out on him, and is still
doing so. To arrive at that
$2,000,000,000 total they use
what the military supplies cost
us originally. What happened
was that after the war we left
behind in China, as elsewhere
abroad, supplies which were not
worth hauling back to the U.S.
We also left behind on Pacific
islands other deteriorating
dumps, parts of which we
eventually sold to China. Vir-
tually none of this was of value
to us. Some of it was of value
to China, but much of it was
junk. Other material needed by
China was either withheld or
demilitarised.
“For 18 months under the
Marshall policy we stopped all
military aid. This was at the
time Russia was outfitting the
Chinese Red Armies by the
simple process of leaving the
captured Japanese military
stores for them to pick up in
Manchuria. Not only did we
leave Chiang in the lurch, but in
so doing we broke our specific
pledge to him to arm 10 divi-
sions and eight air groups.
“The record of the Truman
Administration in China is bad
enough without being hypocriti-
cal about it. Those high Wash-
ington officials who are now be-
latedly discovering that the Red
conquest of Manchuria and
north China hits American
security interests cannot escape
their share of responsibility.
“That deceptive $2,000,000,000
figure, now being peddled as an
alibi for welshing on our faith-
ful ally, will look pretty small by
the time the American taxpayer
gets through putting up enough
defence in Japan and the Pacific
islands to offset needless Red
victories in China. If, indeed,
they can be offset simply by
bigger military appropriations,
“Instead of wasting time try-
ing to polish up the tarnished
repord, Washington officials had
better be thinking about where
we go from here. The United
States still has no China policy.”
By way of comment on any
official U.S. belief that what’s
happening in China is only of
secondary importance, articles
in various papers give promin-
ence to the views expressed by
Com. leaders, “The key task,”
U.S. Communist - party head
William Z. Foster is quoted as
declaring §o far back as three
years ago, “is to stop American
intervention in China, The war
in China is the key of all prob-
lems on the international front,
and it is here, above all else,
where we have to deal the
hardest blow to reaction.”
The Austrian Communist,
Fischer, back in Vienna, from a
meeting of Communist leaders in
Berlin, recently declared: “The
world event which overshadows
all else is taking place many
thousands of miles east of Ber-
lin, before the gates of Nan-
king, China, where the rotten
regime of Chiang Kai-shek, and
with it the foundation-stone of
America’s imperialistic foreign
policy, is breaking to pieces
under the hammering of the vic-
torious people’s army.”
Against the widely-publicised
notion of Chinese Corns as mere
“agrarian reformers” is placed a
recent article by the Chinese
Communist leader Mao Tse-tung
in the official Cominform organ
published in Bucharest: “The
Communist party of China is a
party built on the example of
the Soviet Union and is develop-
ing along the same lines. The
revolution being carried out in
China is an integral part of the
international anti - imperialist
campaign.”
“U.S. News and World Re-
port,” commenting that
“Through China the Com-
munists are driving south to-
ward the borders of south-east
Asia, with 135,000,000 inhabi-
tants, and toward India, with its
390,000,000 people,” concludes:
“The addition of all these areas
to the Communist empire would
give Moscow control over more
than half the people of the
world.”
Dragnet Digest.
Socialised Medicine. Addressing
the 372 delegates at a U.S.-Canadian
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers’ Asso-
ciation convention, Dr. Morris Fish-
bein, editor of the “American Medical
Association Journal,” declared that
any nation that embarks on a national
health plan of socialised medicine
“is taking the downward path.”
European countries that had adopted
such plans, he said, are showing signs
of medical deterioration; “The
National Health Act in Great Britain
has created a ‘monster bureaucracy’
that has removed from hospital care
and medical care all of the personal
inspiration that has given the United
States leadership and progress in medi-
cal science.”
* * * *
Big Battalions. —London “Times’s”
military correspondent strangely fails
to share the Canberra belief that
it can all be done by pressing but-
tons : “It seems to me a sentimentality
—the wish being with us father to the
thought—that modern war necessarily
demands small, highly-trained armies.
People have been saying so for more
than a generation, but there has been
no proof of it, and existing evidence
is to the contrary. The Germans
could not have invaded Russia with-
out a mass army, and the Russians
could not have worn them out after
crushing defeats without a greater
one. The likelihood is that in a
major war there would still be a
tendency for mass armies to grow
up.”
* * * *
Sister Kenny.-frlmmcaWy in a way,
a United States Loyal League is the
latest to do honor to Australian
Sister Elizabeth ’ Kenny outside her
own country. At a gathering reported
by N. Y. “Daily News,” the League
presented a plaque awarded to her
as the one who had done most for
children in 1948; “the 1500 guests
in the grand ballroom of the Waldorf-
Astoria rising to their feet to cheer
the Australian nurse.”
# * ♦ ♦
U.S. Losing Jap Favor. —While it
seems to be taken for granted by
roost American commentators that the
Japs are fairly bursting with friend-
liness for the U.S., an odd straw in
the wind is reported by a Tokyo cor-
respondent of N. Y. “Times” —that
“Books on the American type of
democracy are beginning to prove less
popular” among the Japs. It isn’t
confined to books on that particular
subject: “A noted professor, an estab-
lished author on such subjects, re-
ported his publisher had told him the
sale of anything favorable to the
United States was doubtful, but if
he would venture some criticism of
democracy or say a few kind words
for the Communists public acceptance
was certain.”
* * ♦ ♦
Bardic Abundance. —As described
in a London “Times” letter, the
Birmingham Shakspeare Memorial
Library set itself the embracing ob-
jective of collecting “every edition
and translation of Shakspeare, all the
commentators, good, bad, and in-
different, and every book connected
with the life and works” of the Bard.
The score to date is 33,000 books
and pamphlets in 60 languages.
.« * * *
Corns in France. —Viewed on the
spot by “Wall-street Journal’s” Paris
correspondent: “The Soviet propa-
ganda machine has been built up over
years and is now a network embracing
almost every town and village in
France. Go into any provincial city,
large or small, and you will find a
Communist headquarters, you will see
the Communist organ sold on the
streets from the earliest hours, when
men go to work, and you will pro-
bably notice announcement of a
.coming Communist public meeting.”
♦ * * *
Tardy E.R.P. —On difficulties being
encountered among the 16 participa-
ting nations in living up to their
promises under the European Re-
covery Programme, a Paris correspon-
dent of N. Y. “World-Telegram”
comments; “Beneficiaries not only
have great difficulty dovetailing their
own national programmes, but the
master-plan for all four years of the
E.R.P. thus far is non-existent. Yet
both are imperative if the E.R.P. is
to be successful. Observers remark
that if Western Europe can’t get to-
gether on a master-plan to share the
$20,000,000,000,w0rth of American
aid, then hope for anything like a
real consultative assembly, let alone
a United States of Europe, in the near
future seems pretty dim.”


I
THE HALLMARK OF QUALITY
as
PURE AUSTRALIAN
VIRGIN WOOL
WMmM
YARRA
FALLS
LIMITED
c -Manufacturers of
FINE WORSTEDS
■<»
ABBOTSFORD.
VICTORIA.
AUSTRALIA
rtP
yr


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3597
Wednesday, January 19, 1949
PREPARING FOR THE FRAY.
“With this in your right hand, good Robert, go smite the Chifley rascals hip and thigh!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Mao”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street. Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE TWEEDLE BROTHERS.
The rumpus in Victoria between the
Liberal and Country parties, whose
leaders were elected to govern the State
jointly, may be reckoned a wind not alto-
gether ill. It has exposed a weakness with
ample notice in time to the parties for
repair before the Federal elections, and
the ridicule aroused has already gone far
to bring Tweedledum and Tweedledee to
their senses.
Presenting the situation in its poorest
complexion, for the leaders and party-
managers to confess that their prospects
for the Federal elections must now be
compromised would be to admit a
poverty which must itself
threaten the parties’ chances. The
paramount consideration is the good gov-
ernment of the Commonwealth, its
administration for the benefit not of a
section (as the Socialists interpret it); but
of all classes and interests that make up
the nation; and there never was a time
when Australia —and the peoples of the
world at large—more desperately needed
to be preserved from dissensions. Peace
and goodwill, like charity, must begin at
home if they are to function everywhere
on earth.
The great Italian patriot Mazzini, who
was the inspiration of the liberation cam-
paign that came to full flower under Gari-
baldi 90 years ago, had an exhortation
for his fellow-countrymen then which will
fit no less aptly the Australian case to-
day. “You will not create better condi-
tions,” he warned them, “if you do not
yourselves become better men.”
The Victorian quarrel in itself must
seem to most electors largely personal
in its origin and contemptible in its de-
velopment. It can be supported and given
further play only at the cost of poisoning
politics in every sphere where the two
parties insist on their separate entities, and
to the immeasurable injury of Australia
whatever the temporary advantage to the
rejoicing Socialists. For quite as im-
portant as the party issues which this
year’s elections must decide is the national
need for the restoration of Parliament as
the machine of government which
operates by virtue of assuring, according
to the will of electors, an alternative party
Administration.
The buffoonery in Victoria is not
merely suicidal in the parties themselves,
but a betrayal of their own express man-
date from the electors. That it should
endure to blight the issue of the Federal
elections would be to endorse the
Socialists’ own betrayal of this demo-
cracy and leave the country without hope.
Faced as they are by a regimented
Socialist party, pledged under the name of
“Labor” to revolutionary courses without
popular mandate, the Liberal and Country
parties are under obligation to throw
their united efforts without reserve into
the coming struggle against the Socialist
rot that is eating deeply into the fabric of
the national life. Specifically the decay
is visible under these heads:
The Chifley Government’s socialisation
programme, unauthorised by the people of
Australia, is pursued with the support and
connivance of “Labor’s” allies in the Com-
munist party, which is subversive, disloyal,
and directed by the British Commonwealth’s
enemies in Moscow.
Australia’s foreign policy, no longer sub-
mitted in advance to Parliament for
approval, knows no landmarks but the
casual objectives adopted to suit a roving
Minister’s personal expediency, and has
seriously embarrassed the authority of the
British Government, which, in the last re-
sort, supplies any armed force to uphold
the voice of the King’s Australian Ministers
in the arena of international affairs.
Save for some nuclear naval strength,
Australian fighting services are in the dis-
card, and the only practical means of
maintaining them, adopted in every country
with interests to defend and resolved to
defend them, is by the Chifley Government
disowned and abhorred. It is significant
of the whole scurvy Socialist programme
that even the Socialists are not game to
nationalise defence—with universal training
for preservation of the paradise they pre-
tend they are establishing. Either in their
eyes their socialised State is not worth
defending, or they are not telling the people
the truth.
The degradation of Parliamentary gov-
ernment and the intended replacement of
Parliament by a “Supreme Economic
Council” of government responsible only
to the trade-unions.
The palsy of loafing which has afflicted
Australian industry under “Labor” rule,
with a crippling insufficiency of production
as the result of shorter hours, limitation of
man-hour output, and the draining of avail-
able labor into non-productive Government
employment. Companion pictures are the
necessity to subsidise all small farming
industry to offset rising costs. Farther out,
the rabbits may yet decide the election
swing.
There is enough here for the frame-
work of a constructive Liberal-C.P. pro-
gramme without any party conflict what-
ever. Something much more is necessary
than an anti-Communist companionate
marriage for the purpose of winning a
majority in the House of Representatives.
Both parties know it, and the course to
which they will be committed is fully
appreciated by the Chifleyites also.
Under the legislation enlarging the
Senate, a ramp of a scheme, tainted with
illegality, to secure control of that
Chamber by the Socialists whatever
happens—a Senate with a minority elected
under one system of vote-counting and a
majority elected under a different system
-—the defeat of the Socialists at the elec-
tions would permit the passage of reform
legislation only in the House of Repre-
sentatives. The Liberal-C.P. alliance
will, in that event, have to work
for a double-dissolution in order to seek
a majority for their programme in both
Houses. Any arrangements for coalition
or collaboration between the two Opposi-
tion parties must therefore be. durable
enough to carry their cause through the
whole struggle for the right to implement
their programme. And why not, if they
are fully agreed upon the features of that
programme?
The deputy-leader of the Federal
Country party, in one of his saner com-
ments on the Dunstan farce in Victoria,
said that what was necessary for the
Federal elections was a Liberal-Country
committee with full power to settle
all joint-party selections for disputed
seats. Mr. McEwen did not appear to
appreciate that if the parties could
associate as closely as that, the final
consent to their merger—if not a com-
plete union, then one with only a geo-
graphical distinction —would hardly be
worth withholding. If he and others who
approve the suggestion would press it
even though it prove to lead to a union
in all but name, the chief trouble would
be surmounted.
Times have changed since the Country
party first made its bow some 30 years
ago. The strength of its arguments for
preservation of a scrupulously separate
character may have gained from tradition
what they have lost in strict validity—
for instance, the argument that if it
merged with the Liberal party another
Country party would promptly spring up.
But there is a superior and convincing
tone about the Liberals’ plea for a nation-
wide single party to stand for preserva-
tion of democracy against Socialism, The
essential note it sounds is that for the
struggle to defeat a “Labor” party turned
Socialist and revolutionary, and swayed
from the Trades Halls by Communists
within the ranks, there must be a closing
of the ranks everywhere. For as far
ahead as the common man can see, the
ultimate pattern of Australian democracy
must be fought out between a socialised
“Labor” party and the conservatism (in
its true sense) that the Liberal-Country
parties represent. The ultimate com-
promise—the sort that time and the
national ' interest will impose—is some-
thing very different from an anaemic
agreement between two factions on the
anti-Socialist side, based on the lowest
common denominator of their principles,
of which the first and foremost is ex-
pressed in the shibboleth that in no cir-
cumstances whatever shall those parties
unite.
The Menace in Israel.
The Attlee Government must have a
violent headache over the way affairs have
developed in Palestine. The whole of it,
and not merely the scraps which make up
the new Israel, is a little more than a
third the size of Tasmania, or a little less
than one-eighth the size of Victoria. It
had, at the end of the war, a population
of 579,000 Jews who had arrived there
mainly by immigration, and most of
whom could not call it their native land,
some of them being not even of
Palestinian origin within a thousand
years.
They had received room in this tiny
plot of Asia under a condition that it
should become in time a national home
for the Jews, but that “nothing should
be done which might prejudice the civil
and religious rights of existing non-
Jewish communities in Palestine, or the
rights and political status enjoyed by
Jews in other countries.” They have ever
since sought to secure complete domina-
tion of the country, in which even now,
after nearly a generation since the ideal
was set out, the Arabs and Christians
outnumber them two to one and have
been increasing through birth at a far
greater rate than the Jews have been in-
creasing by both birth and immigration
—legal and illegal.
The Attlee Government obligingly let
itself be kicked out of Palestine, de-
lighting such as Mr. Ben Hecht, to
whom the slaying of every Briton is
equivalent to a “holiday in the heart.”
It allowed British forces to be withdrawn,
though .it well knew that in agreeing to
the dictates of the United Nations organi-
sation to abandon the country to die
tender mercies of the merciless, and to
the muddling of Dr. Evatt and his associ-
ates, it was opening the gate for the pene-
tration of Russia into an area in which
it could threaten the oil-supply vital to
British, Indian and Australian defence.
Since the murder of Count Bernadotte
matters in Palestine have gone from bad
to worse. The American negro. Dr.
Bunche, who succeeded him, along with
French, Belgian and U.S. military ob-
servers, whose duty has been to see that
what is called a “truce” has been ob-
served, has been treated by the Israelis
with contempt.
The period of., the “truce” has been uti-
lised by them to rearm from Communist
sources and to import more human fight-
ing material from the ghettos of Eastern
Europe—perhaps also (judging by the
military skill, especially in strategy,
which has been shown from the begin-
ning) from the Red Army,
From November last the Security
Council, mainly on British initiative, has
been doing what it can to achieve a
settlement on the basis of Count Berna-
dette’s plan, which involved the giving
of part of'the Negeb in the south to the
Arabs—Britain proposed that it should
be attached to Transjordan—western.
Galilee to ‘the Jews and Jerusalem to
U.N.O. It was proposed to appoint a
conciliation committee of three to define
boundaries and settle other matters. It
was intended that any attempt by the
disputants to settle boundary questions
by force should be regarded by the
Council as an act of aggression, and that
Arabs displaced by the Jews should be
allowed at once to return to their proper-
ties and be compensated for their losses.
It was in the natural order of things
that, though the United Statgg should at
least accept the principle of this scheme,
the normal opposition should be there
with its normal leaders—the U.S.S.R. and
Australia. Dr. Evatt’s young man on
November 23 moved that there should
be five members on the conciliation
commission instead of the three pro-
posed, and that “sympathetic considera-
tion should be given to the application
of Israel for admission to U.N.0.” This,
of course, was enough to kill unanimity,
since the Israelis, to whom Dr. Evatt
wishes to give the same voting-power js
Australia, Canada and the United King-
dom, though without the U.K.’s veto,
were In the unlawful position of flouting
even U.N.O. orders and regulations and
subjecting U.N.O.’s observers to the in-
dignity of arrest and deportation from
points at which they could witness Jewish
lawlessness.
The Soviet followed this silly inter-
ference on the part of Canberra’s emis-
sary by moving a resolution demanding
the withdrawal of the Arab League
armies from Palestine—which would
have left the whole of the Arab area of
Palestine, with its Arab majority, com-
pletely at the mercy of the Jews, thou-
sands of whom, newly arrived from the
Communist Balkans and as far afield as
Shanghai, were themselves foreigners in
every sense of the word.
It has been quite clear all along that
the Jews—as is perfectly natural—have a
supreme contempt for U.N.O. and all its
works. They know they have won the
war against the Arabs. They know that
they have strong backing from their
more fanatical co-religionists in the
United States and that the feeble Attlee
Government is likely to bow on any major
issue to United States opinion. They do
not care that Dr. Bunche, U.N.O.’s repre-
sentative, has formally found them
guilty of reopening hostilities against the
law of U.N.O. They have the open sup-
port of Communist Czechoslovakia,
whose Government is arming them, with-
out attracting any censure, apparently,
from Dr. Evatt’s ramshackle organisa-
tion. They know they can count on the
full backing of Russia whenever they
make any move calculated to weaken the
lifelines of the British Commonwealth.
The Security Council has ended by ap-
pointing a conciliation committee con-
sisting of Mr, Joseph B. Keenan, who
was chief U.S. prosecutor at the
Japanese war-crimes trials in Tokyo,
earning there an erratic reputation, and
delegates from Turkey and France; but
the whole of the scheme agreed on by
Britain and the United States was emas-
culated by a series of resolutions which
threw over Count Bernadette’s proposals
and left the commission almost without
terms of reference.
Meanwhile a curiously regimented
campaign had begun in Moscow and Tel
Aviv to allege that the United Kingdom
was showing an extremely partisan atti-
tude and that its policy seemed to be
trending towards open war against Israel.
An advance against the Egyptians might
almost have been designed, by threaten-
ing the Suez Canal zone and Transjordan,
to ensure that the United Kingdom,
through its treaties of mutual aid and in
the interests of self-defence, would be
brought into the position of having to
resist Israel, a situation which some
parties counted on to produce self-inter-
ested help from the U.S.S.R. and divide
Britain and the United States, as well
as dividing the British Commonwealth
and even the British Cabinet, whose
Stafford Cripps is apparently ready
to give away the whole of the British
Empire and Commonwealth of 1945. In
the light of circumstances, the deliberate
shooting-down by the Israelis of R.A.F.
observer aircraft over Egypt looks
sinister.
The seeds of another world war lie
under the soil in the Middle East, along
with the fatal germs which might poison
U.N.O. and destroy the Attlee Govern-
ment. They may also prove the down-
fall of Dr. Evatt. That world-traveller
had no word of comment on the Palestine
situation when he arrived "“home” on the
Dominion Monarch. But he did astound
all who heard him by saying that there
was “no nation in the world so great
that it dare ignore the expressed will of
the United Nations.” The world is a
large place to manoeuvre in, but our peri-
patetic Minister is undoubtedly finding
that even global politics have a habit of
closing in bn one when a showdown is
forced on really big issues.
Another Commission Needed.
The narrowing-down of the inquiry into
the questions arising from the New
Guinea timber-lease trials involving J. S.
Garden, Harcourt Garden and Ray Parer,
and during which the integrity and
administration of Minister E. J. Ward
was assailed by “Jock” Garden, counsel
and others, seems out of keeping with
what was promised the public.
Mr. Justice Ligertwood, of S. Australia,
is specifically authorised to inquire as to
what were file real transactions between
the accused in those trials and Edward
Farrell, who was released when the
Gardens and Parer were acquitted of con-
spiracy, and Hancock and Gore and their
various representatives in relation to the
New Guinea timber leases. These the
firm was alleged to have paid £50,000 to
secure. He is also commissioned to find
out whether the Minister was a party to
any transactions with those persons men-
tioned, whether he signed, or authorised
J. S. Garden to sign, approval of any
timber licence for Parer in the Bulolo
Valley; also, whether he received any
benefit or promise of benefit from the
transactions, and whether he was directly
or indirectly interested financially in the
firm of Sydney Pincombe Pty. Ltd., or
has received any financial benefit from
that company.
Certainly the scope could not have been
made much narrower in view of the
charges made and questions asked in
court.
There is nothing, for instance, about
the suggestion made in court (denied by
the witness, Urquhart) that exemp-
tions from Manpower call-ups could
be bought and were being trafficked in
while Mr. Ward was Minister for Labor
and National Service, There is nothing
about the alleged hiring at Government
cost of cars to carry Mr. Urquhart to
Mr, Ward’s house three times a week on
the latter’s private electoral business.
There is to be no specific inquiry
into the circumstances surrounding the
appointments of Garden and Urquhart
to a Government department controlled
by Mr. Ward at a time when they were
concerned in Mr, Ward’s electoral organ-
isation. There is to be no probe into
their duties or as to why Mr, Garden
appears to have had the run of Mr.
Ward’s office even after Mr, Ward had
transferred from the department in which
Mr. Garden was employed.
Dissatisfaction has been expressed with
the terms of the Commission by Mr,
W. M. Hughes, Mr, Percy Spender and
others. But there has been no complaint
from the person from whom complaint
was most to be expected—Mr. E. J. Ward,
who, according to the Prime Minister,
has “pressed” for an inquiry “from the
outset.”
There is no doubt that sooner or later
other matters which were raised in evi-
dence in the Criminal Court will have to
beqome the subject of inquiry. It is
exceedingly difficult to believe that the
Labor and Industry Department was so
deficient in experienced men that it was
necessary to obtain from outside the
department a “liaison-officer” to act as a
link with the industrial unions. And it
is equally difficult to accept that the dearth
of talent outside the service was such that
Mr. Ward was compelled to fall back
upon a notorious Communist agitator to


fill the position, even though he had had
association with Mr. Ward’s political elec-
toral activities. In fairness to Mr. Ward,
and to the public, the Government should
give him every chance to explain the
matter.
Since, however, appointments from out-
side the service in flat contradiction of the
principles of the Public Service Act have
become so common under the present
regime, the case might well be dealt
with as part of a general inquiry by a
separate commission, the appointment of
which certainly would be justified. Such
a commission might be able to determine,
apart from questions affecting Mr. Ward,
why the Commonwealth Bank has been
unable to produce a trained banker to fill
its governorship, and why, if necessary, a
governor experienced in banking could
not have been obtained from outside, to
avoid the appointment of an economist
who may be excellent in his own line but
who is not a trained banker.
It also might be able to make it clear
why the External Affairs Department,
after the Commonwealth has existed
nearly half a century, has to look for a
permanent head outside its own ranks —
the young man who obtained the plum
at £2250 a year has his name down for
pre-selection as a “Labor” candidate for
the new voteless Canberra Federal seat.
So extensive have appointments outside
the scope of the Public Service Act be-
come that there are now almost sufficient
temporary Commonwealth public ser-
vants to assure that they and their de-
pendants can determine the fate of any
close-run Federal election.
The whole thing calls for the most
searching investigation to determine
whether there does not exist in the “tem-
porary” civil service a danger to the
freedom of the country and to the right
of a majority of electors to manage their
own affairs. The Commonwealth seems
to be under the threat of becoming
governed by an Administration which is
up for political sale, with an intangible
bloc of “temporary” employees large
enough to determine an election issue
whenever it feels itself, as a class, in
danger.
It is up to Mr. Chifley to appoint a
Judge or a Commissioner of sufficient
standing to get to the bottom of this
civil-service inflation and give the tax-
paying public an adequate report upon it.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Cobwebs on the Wharves.
It’s a dull month that goes by without
some trouble on the Sydney waterfront,
and it’s an extraordinary week-end that
doesn’t find the port chock-full of ships
that could have finished their loading or
discharging and got away to sea if the
watersiders had worked even at the rate
customary 10 years ago, which was noth-
ing out of the box compared with other
parts of the world. Week-ends in port
are a dead loss to the ship-owner, how-
ever profitable they may be to the Gov-
ernment authorities which collect port
and harbor dues. These pile up against
the ship whether it is being worked or
not, as do wages, victualling, insurance
and the hundred and one other charges
that go on the debit side of a voyage
account. The trouble is not confined to
Sydney, though through the size of the
port and the stranglehold Marx House
has upon its waterfront unions the effect
of “go-slow” is perhaps more apparent
there than in some of the other ports.
Vessels nowadays seem to spend
twice as much time picking up and dis-
charging cargo as they did before the
war. The slow turn-round of ships is
second only to the chronic shortage of
coal in hindering industry and in causing
local shortages of goods through slow dis-
tribution. Hie two things, of course, can
be traced to the same origin—the deter-
mination of the Communists to prevent
or delay a return to normal trade. But
Mr. Chifley explains that Sydney is not
a modem port, as though that should
explain why cargo is handled more slowly
there than it was in 1939, when it was,
if anything, less modern.
“Fixer” Ashley’s story is that ships
are, on the average, carrying bigger
cargoes than before the war. Fully-
loaded ships were not unknown in
1939, and the Senator has made
no attempt to explain how a vessel which
was full then can be more full now, or,
being just as full, should take longer to
empty. Perhaps it is that the ships are
10 years older and therefore a little tired.
Certain it is that the wharfies are 10 years
older, but the young blood that the union
has reluctantly admitted to what has been
called the most exclusive club in Aus-
tralia has been carefully screened,
thoroughly indoctrinated and is not per-
mitted to be any less tired than the old
hands.
The effect of the slow turn-round is
bad enough in the case of the coastal
trade, but at any rate it can be argued
that the economic los§ to the country is
confined to the time actually lost in. port.
If through a hold-up a vessel misses out
on an urgent cargo, other means may be
found of lifting it, and the original ship
diverted elsewhere. This argument, of
doubtful validity even in the case of Aus-
tralian ships, cannot be used to discount
the seriousness of delays to oversea ves-
sels. Last week the chairmen of two
British shipping companies expressed
alarm at the policy that keeps their ves-
sels so long wharf-bound in Australian
ports. Mr. W. Donald, of the Port Line,
said the delays had greatly forced up
ship-owners’ expenses. The waste of
time was having a bad effect on Aus-
tralian trade and finance throughout the'
world. The Orient chairman, Mr.
Geddes, said that unless something was
don© to improve things the result would
be to force a rise in freights and fares:
One or two days’ delay in Australia
could easily mean a week’s postpone-
ment of a ship’s next sailing from Lon-
don, because sailings of ships had to he
kept properly spaced and as far as pos-
sible avoid arrivals on week-ends or holi-
days.
Delay of one week each voyage meant
the immobilisation of each ship for one
month in each year.
It is all very well for waterfront unions
to take the view—in which they are all
too often encouraged by Canberra—that
ships are run primarily in the interests of
AND NEVER FAILS.
“Don Bradman dolls, in moulded sponge rubber, are being manufactured in Britain.”
“Don't worry about his dolls, mister; this one says ‘Me! Mel’ loudly at
the slightest squeeze!”
the crews and the wharfies; but no sys-
tem of government, not even a Socialist
one, can long sustain that view. Cer-
tainly Britain, to whom shipping earn-
ings are an important item in the national
accounting, cannot do so,
Mr, Donald has come here to study the
problem; in an interview he said he was
prepared to discuss it with trade-union
leaders. If he means the Red crowd in
control of the wharves he may just as
well save his breath. They will have no
more sympathy with the worries of his
company or his country than they have
with troubles of Australian companies,
the Australian Government or the Aus-
tralian people. From Mr. Chifley and
the “Fixer” he will get a polite hearing,
comfortable assurances and no action.
He will leave Australia feeling no
happier about the situation than when he
arrived. But on the way back to Britain
he may derive some grim satisfaction
from visualising Chifley and Ashley up
to their necks in the trouble that will be
surely theirs when their exhumed Com-
monwealth Shipping Line (1949 pattern)
really gets going.
Menzies Enters the Fray.
There can be little question any longer
as to whether the Liberal party will
make prominent in its election policy
pledges to take decisive action against
the Communists. Menzies, speaking in
Perth on his return from Europe, said;
I have seen a lot of things in the past
six months, from the U.S. and Canada on
one side to Berlin on the other. I am
satisfied beyond all doubt that Communism
has to be dealt with not as an eccentricity
but as an enemy..,.
Communism is anti-Parliament, it is
anti-trade-union, anti-British, anti-Aus-
tralian, and nobody who looks around the
world can mistake that it is pro-Russian.
It is organised not for social purposes but
for high treason .... .^
If Russia overthrew the Western world
there would be no free speech, no free
trade-unions, no free Parliament, only a
police State. It is folly in die name of
free speech to permit or legalise the activi-
ties of the enemies of free speech. The
Communists must go
I say on behalf of the Opposition that
we are against the Communists root and
branch, with no hesitation and no quarter.
The lists are set, and even before the
pre-election session of Parliament meets,
the leaders in what will be one of the
most strenuous contests in Australian
election history will tour the States to
put their cases. The Socialists —to whom
Communism is a “political philosophy”
—have no case except for those who
would sell their democratic souls for a
hash of phony “social security” and illu-
sive “full employment.”
Mountain from Molehill.
Th£ story of how Queensland Premier
Hanlon, refusing to have a bar of the
Joint Coal Board, set up his own Coal
Reference Board with a Mr. F. E. Walsh
as chairman, how Mr. Walsh ordered
the men back to work in the Burgowan
coal dispute, how “Fixer” Ashley and
Comrade Millar came into the picture,
and how Mr. Walsh subsequently found
himself “retired” and a Mr. J, A. Murray,
S.M., in his place, how Mr. Murray
reversed the Walsh decision and the
Queensland Coalowners’ Association de-
cided to appeal to the High Court on
the question of Mr. Murray’s jurisdiction,
as told here (B. 22/12/’4B), has now
reached a sort of tentative end.
On hearing of the coalowners’ appeal.
Comrade Millar announced that unless
the dispute was settled by January 12 a
general strike would be “on.” By January
10 the thing had “reached State and
Federal importance” (it was originally a
minor dispute over timbering), and there
was to be an aggregate meeting of miners
on Wednesday to consider “plans for a
State-wide stoppage.” Before that tele-
phones buzzed in all directions. I. Wil-
liams, the Communist boss of the Miners’
Federation, was telephoning J. Donald,
Queensland “Labor” jnember for Bremer
(the Burgowan district), urging a confer-
ence of Cabinet Ministers and “mining
representatives”; Acting-Premier Gair
had “no knowledge of any peace move” ;
H. A. Fountain, a “coal-industry investi-
gator,” was making “a plea to both
parties to realise the national significance
of the matter.”
The withers of the Coalowners’ Asso-
ciation remained unwmng, and it sud-
denly dawned upon somebody that if its
appeal to the High Court succeeded, the
whole of the Commonwealth’s coal-
industry legislation might collapse, and
similar legislation with it.
The spectacle of the Joint Coal Board,
the Shipping Control Board and the
Stevedoring Industry Commission all fold-
ing up, while likely to cause unholy joy
to some people, was too much for Com-
rade Millar. The zero hour of January
12 was hurriedly called off, the State Coal
Board was invited to “take over” Bur-
gowan and work it until the dispute was
settled, and Comrade Williams began
flying hither and yon in aeroplanes. It
was pretty obvious that the Communist-
bossed Miners’ Federation didn’t want the
High Court test to be held. On January
12 a conference of State Ministers, mem-
bers, Communists and Miners’ Federation
“heads” sat to hear a plan to ask the
Hanlon Government “to instruct the State
Coal Board to intervene and control min-
ing operations at the Burgowan pits,” or
alternatively to ask the Goal Industry
Tribunal (Mr. Gallagher) to “intervene.”
It didn’t work out that way, The
conference, a galaxy of mineowners, Com-
munists, union officials, State Ministers
and members and public servants, sat for
three hours. A settlement was reached.
Dispute and settlement recapitulated:
Dispute: Began 14/10/’4B. In two of the
three pits at Burgowan the miners erected
the timber cogs (pillars) but not in the third.
When the owners ordered similar practice
in the third pit the miners refused. Work
stopped. Mr. Walsh ordered the miners
back to work and to do the timbering.
There followed his “retirement” and the
subsequent doings.
Settlement: Reached 12/l/’49. Miners
to erect cogs, price for erection of same to
be that determined by Mr. Walsh,
The settlement is to “remain in force
until the High Court gives its decision
on the owners’ appeal” concerning the
appointment of Mr. Murray. The Bur-
gowan men lost £17,000 in wages and the
State 18,000 tons of coal. So far there
has been no comment from the “Fixer.”
Victoria's Coal Outlook.
The plight of Victoria and S.A. under
the N.S.W. miners’ restriction of coal
production is revealed in figures just pub-
lished by the Victorian Minister for
Transport and Electrical Undertakings.
All S.A. consumers have been heavily
rationed throughout the miners’ holidays,
and Victoria would have suffered equally
but for imports of coal from overseas.
Handicap on expansion of industry
and services in Victoria is illustrated by
the weekly shipments during the past two
years. They were 27,163 tons a week
during 1947, increased to only 27,699
tons in 1948. For the whole of last year
Victoria received a mere 28,000 tons
more than in 1947, and only shipments
from overseas kept the wheels turning
during the past two months.
For 1949 the Coal Board has promised
Victoria 30,000 tons a week.. The State >
will need this year at least another
250,000 tons more than the amount
N.S.W. and Wonthaggi can supply,
although industrial use of brown coal has
increased by 70 per cent, since 1947.
Yet with the crippling Communist
darg on coal output, the Socialists in
Canberra go on talking about the ex-
pansion of Australian industry under
their regime, and the opportunities offer-
ing for the settlement here of industrial
undertakings from overseas!
"Organising Scarcity."
Last June Professor Copland delivered
himself of serious misgivings about the
effects of Mr. Chifley’s “full-employment”
policy. Many tendencies have since be-
come clearer, and Professor Hytten
opened a well-supported attack on “full
employment” in his address last Thursday
at Hobart before the Australian and N.Z.
Science Congress.
Professor Copland was mainly con-
cerned with the failure of “full employ-
ment” to maintain production levels.
Professor Hytten’s condemnation proceeds
from serious anxiety over the spurious
political assumption that it is a means to
assure a stabilised economy.
Copland denied the validity of the
term “full employment”:
It would be better to describe the position
as. one of the employment of large num-
bers at a level far below industrial capacity
rather than one of full employment.
Hytten six months later says: “We
have not full employment, but overfull
employment, a condition of ‘inherent in-
stability’.” The definition of “full em-
ployment” in the Chifley Government’s
White Paper of 1945 assumes main-
tenance of “such a pressure of demand
on resources [of materials and manpower]
that for the economy as a whole there
will be a tendency towards a shortage
of men instead of a shortage of jobs.”
This condition implies scarcities, and
therefore either a scramble for resources,
with inflationary pressure, or allocation
by Government authority, with all the
evils attending. Even the White Paper
recognises this, but expresses the pious
hope that it will be necessary only in
abnormal circumstahces.
What chicanery this is in the name
of economic planning! The situation
under “overfull employment” is inherently
rickety; “it postulates a level of em-
ployment too high to become stable”;
yet the Socialist Government bases its
whole economic policy on the assumption
that this inherently shaky condition
can, by political devices, be made stable.
The evil consequences of “overfull
employment” already perceptible are
listed by Hytten thus:
A complete lack of discipline on the part
of labor.
A slackening of effort not only in em-
ployees but also in employers, especially
where both have to wait on supply of
materials. Unemployment is actually with
us, but is “concealed,” where employers
“hoard manpower” by keeping hands paid
but idle rather than lose them, and where
men are engaged in the unproductive
occupation of “complying with, or circum-
venting, Government regulations.”
(Continued on page 14.)


Kee
P to
CBAVBNA
/' 1
igssw
( i\ \\
ft
‘mvMmfa*/
'**7
7741E/R
OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
CARRERAS LIMITED
Deterioration of quality, of goods through
insufficient skilled labor and a ready market
for inferior factory output where the
alternative is nothing at all: “take it or
leave it.”
The cynical outlook based on these con-
ditions that “cost does not matter.”
Professor Hytten’s just warning of the
rods we are making for our own backs
covers these points:
The visionary “social security” is being
purchased at the cost of a lower standard
of life and the loss of basic liberties.
Maintenance of our expanded industries
must eventually depend on exports; and
once our late enemies, now being restored
economically, re-enter international trade
“unhampered by the costs we are piling up,”
a local policy aiming at more jobs than
men to fill them must be shattered.
The high taxation revenue from exorbi-
tant tax rates must fall as soon as the
“inherently unstable” condition collapses.
The Government is piling up expenditure
today which will make difficult its under-
taking to increase expenditure in a de-
pression, And there is currently no satis-
factory answer to the public’s query—
“ What becomes of the taxation the Gov-
ernment is receiving today?”
Direct consumer subsidies are as de-
moralising as a simple dole. Indeed they
are another form of the dole.
The Government’s monetary policy for
control of the national economy indefinitely
has yet to meet the test of falling prices
in overseas markets.
Lastly, and fatally, comes the ques-
tion: To what does “full employment”
lead in bad times? As was pointed out
in The Bulletin last October, following a
Ministers’ conference with the unions to
urge increased production, Mr. Chifley
admitted to the unions that “in the day
production reaches the stage when there
are surpluses” (which must in “Labor”
policy be reckoned an evil day):
No guarantee can be given to anybody
that he will stay in a particular industry.
There may have to be transfers of
workers....
That is to say, the workers will be man-
powered: there will be compulsory
direction of labor. “This may be one of
the major rocks,” says Prof. Hytten, “on
which re-employment policy will
founder.” There will be different
“pockets” of unemployment in different
localities —it is impossible to foretell
where and in what trades. Already the
unions are barring newcomers from en-
trance ; how will they react to mass-
diversion of labor by Government order?
Liberty, at any rate, will be gone. In
place of it will be offered —at a price—;
what Mr. Chifley calls “social security,”
and as the Prime Minister said last
October, “I am not going to fool any-
body in that respect.”
But he has been fooling the public with
his pretence that “full employment,”
Socialist brand, is in itself “prosperity.”
POLITICAL POINTS
There are few things more illogical
than the secretary of a militant trade-
union attempting to explain his shifts
and changes of policy. Wilson, of the
Combined Mining Unions, last week
gave the Coal Board the executive’s rea-
son for not “permitting” work on open-
cut mines before the other mines re-
opened, although the men concerned
were quite willing to work. It was that
the C.M.U. “feared that any partial re-
sumption of work before the holidays
ended might lead to hitches in the general
resumption.” In other words, the execu-
tive insisted on controlling all its mem-
bers during the second week in January
because it feared it couldn’t control
them during the third week.
Next week-end interest in the Victorian
Liberal-C.P. shadow-sparring will tempo-
rarily give way to the Prahran by-election.
The fight will be a straightout one be-
tween a Liberal, Martin Smith, and a
“Labor” man, Frank Crean. Fourteen
months ago Smith ran Quirk, whose
death caused the present contest, very
close, and was only 91 votes behind when
counting finished. Quirk had a big per-
sonal following which enabled him to
escape the landslide which smothered
many, of his colleagues. Without that
advantage newcomer Crean will have an
uphill fight.
Emboldened by having persuaded their
leaders to grab the steel industry and
no whit discouraged at the heavy losses
on nationalised coalmines, railways and
airlines, ardent socialises of the British
Labor party are now howling for nation-
alisation of shipbuilding. The subject is
to be discussed this week, but the real
corroboree will come at the annual con-
ference of the party at Blackpool next
June. The more cautious section of the
movement will probably be against it,
but does that matter? At last year’s
conference a majority opposed the steel
grab, yet it is no.w well on the way to
realisation.
Roosevelt’s New Deal; Truman’s Fair
Deal; Chifley’s Misdeal.
As was expected, the terms of refer-
ence for the Ward inquiry did not in-
clude the activities of Santa Claus, A
pity; the old boy might have been of
considerable assistance to the Royal
Commissioner.
Forecasting some political aspects of
1949, Fadden has tipped that:
The wheatgrowers will be given back a
few more shillings of their own money and
the woolgrowers will participate in a similar
handback. Low and middle incomes will
benefit by tax-reductions.
Why change the sense as in the last sen-
tence? Don’t tax-reductions mean getting
some of our own money back?
As part of “Labor’s” preparations to
“sell socialisation” to the electors, P. J.
Kennelly, M.L.C., the A.L.P.’s expert
electioneer in Victoria, is billed at Easter
to resign his secretaryship of the party
organisation in that State in order “to
concentrate on the Federal elections.”
Kennelly hastened home from a Canadian
tour 15 months ago in order to win the
Victorian elections for Cain. The only
thing sold—and well sold —then was the
“Labor” party. Nor could the famous
Mr. Kennelly do any better in the recent
by-election in the “Labor” seat of
Geelong. This time he will be trying for
a seat himself; he is after the Gelli-
brand endorsement.
Our Foreign Policy blew in last week.
It seemed rather blown out.
Arthur Deakin, of the British Trans-
port Workers’ Union, claims to be in
possession of Communist plans for
nation-wide strikes next August. His
sources of information are “secret”; so
are his plans to combat the plot. There
is no secret about the Chifley method of
combating Communist strikes. It’s just a
matter of telling “Fixer” Ashley to find
out what they want and give it to them.
Speaking more to convince himself than
for any other reason. Dr. Evatt said on
his arrival in Perth:
There is no nation so great that it dare
ignore the expressed will of the United
Nations.
He was talking in the present tense, so
perhaps it is unfair to point out that-
Russia, through the veto, has ignored that
“expressed will” at least 29 times, and it
is possible that in the comfort of his
luxury suite on the Dominion Monarch
he had forgotten that his pet infant.
Israel, had several times treated U.N.O.
with contempt and was in fact still doing
so. And it is hard to believe that even
Bert, with his capacity for keeping his
head in the clouds while his feet flit from
shore to shore, could have forgotten that
his own appointee had recently violently
attacked the Dutch for flouting the
Security Council’s ukase in Indonesia.
Two days after his . fatuous remark a
Dutch spokesman announced that his
country “would never comply with any
U.N.O. order to withdraw” from recently
occupied territory, and an Indonesian
“spokesman” in Batavia said that his
crowd “might also refuse to accept a with-
drawal order.” But Bert didn’t worry.
He repeated the same inanity over the
A.B.C. network on Sunday night.
A Sydney housewife visited a farm out
of Guyra, on the New England table-
land, last week and heard the farmer
cursing because he had potatoes stacked
in his shed, but was not permitted by the
Potato Board to truck them all to Sydney.
Then she came home and discovered
Sydney hadn’t seen a spud for three
weeks. She has now gone into a secret
fastness on a derelict tram to consider
ways and means of retaining her sanity.
In furthering their dictation of Aus-
tralia’s foreign policy, the job of finding
an excuse to hinder the free movement
of ships (Dutch obviously included) has
been passed by wharfies to another
Commo crowd, the tally-clerks. The
issue seized on is the method of engage-
ment ; the Clerks Union bosses demand
a roster system. The present awards pro-
vide that for the first half-hour of pick-
up both employer and employee have the
right to open selection; after that the
roster comes into force. The union has
instructed its members to refuse all en-
gagements for the first half-hour, thus
forcing the roster upon the employers.
By the week-end most ships in the port
were affected ; watersiders were dumping
cargo unsorted in the sheds and wool,
meat and butter shipments for Britain
looked like coming to a standstill. The
Conciliation Commissioner’s request to
the clerks to return to work and apply
for a variation of the award—which the
owners said they would not contest —was
treated with the customary contempt. It’s
an old, familiar story, but Communists,
like children, like the old stories best.
Hardly had Fadden put out a
forecast of Chifley going through the
land as a “benevolent flinger of coins to
the multitude” when some “head” or
other at Canberra told the pressmen
there that “Federal political circles are
forecasting fairly early tax-cuts this year,
followed by larger cuts when the Budget
is prepared later in the year.” It’s a fair
while now since that same Fadden
said the time would come when
Chifley would use his tax-surpluses to
offer tax-cuts as election bait —and was
scorned as a nasty, suspicious person for
saying so.
Hopes raised in the hearts of Sydney
suburban gardeners by a fall of lOin.
of rain were soon dashed by the Water
Board chairman, who announced that
they could expect summer water restric-
tions for another five years—until the
tunnel from Warragamba dam is com-
pleted. One tunnel in course of con-
struction by the board was approved in
1946 at an estimated cost of £2,620,000.
It isn’t finished yet, but the estimate has
jumped to £3,900,000. A board member
explains: “The fact is we don’t get the
work out of the men today, and we have
to pay them more money.” One more
point scored for the 40-hour week.
The British Board of Trade has sus-
pended three of its officials pending in-
vestigation into their alleged acceptance
of gifts, “including whisky and lunches.”
Whisky and lunches figured prominently
in the earlier Board of Trade inquiry, as
did suits, dinners, sausages, hotel bills
and tips for “the dogs.”
Exactly 120 years ago yesterday Sturt
found the Darling River, In the view of
our Communist consultant he did it to
prove that the reactionary controllers of
the capitalist system weren’t progressive
enough to go and find it for themselves,
“There was a time when, without any
hesitation, we said, wherever we were
in the world, T am a British citizen.’
Now, under the new law [passed by
the Socialist Governments in London and
Canberra], if we go to Britain we must
live there for twelve months and then,
on the prescribed form, apply for citizen-
ship When you get it you do not
become a British citizen. You become
a citizen of the U.K. and colonies.....
Here is the result. If I, as a Britisher,
born and bred in Australia, go to Great
Britain to make my life there, I go
through all this mumbo-jumbo in order
to become a citizen of that illustrious
island; but if a resident of Jamaica goes
to England he has all those rights auto-
matically.” —R. G. Menzies, at Perth,
opening a series of Australian political
addresses.
Among those at the Disunited Nations
who have been demanding punishment of
the Dutch for “aggression” against Com-
munist-led Javanese guerrillas are India,
whose troops settled Hyderabad’s pleas
for arbitration by subduing it with force,
and have been invading Kashmir for 12
months, and Australia, whose U.N.O.
delegation has had not one word to say
in condemnation of the Jews’ invasion
first of the allotted Arab region of
Palestine and then of Egypt. Yet the
Dutch troops have as much right to
restore order in Java as Australia has
to place defence outposts in New Guinea.
Word has come out of Washington
that there isn’t much hope of another
international wheat agreement when the
various countries meet on January 21.
Last one broke down because the U.S,
Congress wouldn’t ratify it, and now.
with big wheat crops common and sup-
ply creeping much closer to demand,
surpluses loom and competition to get
rid of them isn’t far off. Under those
conditions importing countries will
hardly commit themselves to fixed quan-
tities at fixed —and high—prices. Instead
of an international wheat agreement an
international wheat argument seems more
likely.
In San Francisco a newspaper reporter
unearthed three immigrants on their way
to Sydney who alleged they’d had a pretty
poor time under Germans and Russians.
“Australia,” said one, as an earnest of
his pleasure at coming here, “can do what
it likes with me.” By that he meant the
Government could, and in that he was
merely echoing the sentiment of far too
many Australians, who let the Govern-
ment do what it likes with them and,
though they have the power to stop it,
do no more than grizzle.
Hollway has said that he will repeal
his Essential Services Act when the con-
trol of the industrial movement passes
into the hands of moderates, A promise
of this sort is of no value to the Com-
rades, so the Seamen’s Union secretary in
Melbourne greeted the reopening of
coalmines with the threat that unless the
Victorian Premier repealed the Act at
once his gang would put a ban on ships
bringing coal to Victoria* If carried out
the ban will throw many Victorian
unionists out of work and will lose
“Labor” many votes in the Prahran by-
election. Not that either of these points
will worry the “militants.”
The N.S.W. coalminers went back to
work on Monday after their three weeks’
annual holidays on full pay. The “spokes-
man” for the Joint Coal Board thereupon
announced that N.S.W. had less than
two days’ supply of coal left, and unless
the miners went in for “high production”
until the end of the month, the people
could expect light, fuel and power short-
ages in homes, industries and transport.
But isn’t the J.C.B. paid to get “high pro-
duction” of coal?
Rock-bottom in the well of stupidity
and ignorance was struck last week by the
Musicians’ Union with its plan to restrict
membership of orchestras to 90 per cent.
Australians and 10 per cent, to British
people 10 years resident in Australia. If
copied by other unions the policy would
mean the end of all immigration, and that
in turn would mean the end of Australia.
Forward, Mr. Calwell, and have a word
with the trumpeters!


THE SHOW MUST GO ON!


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Zake”: In no way is a press-adver-
tiser more likely to have his ad. lack
complete conviction than when he allows
a superimposed photo, to be carelessly
used as an embellishment instead of a well-
done drawing. An instance I note is that
of a young man and young woman shown
together running apparently out of the
surf, eager to get to the lunch-basket,
which, of course, contains the advertised
product. As well as having come out of
the water a few seconds before in a cos-
tume already bone-dry, the young man’s
beautiful marcel-wave has successfully
defied the action of breakers which in-
evitably would reduce the hair-do of a
less-extraordinary individual to some-
thing resembling a mass of seaweed. The
girl is bareheaded, her locks windblown,
as is her ballerina costume, which should
be clinging to her. Her happy smile is
patently a reflection of her joy that her
hair isn’t like the bunch of rats’-tails it
certainly would be had it got wet. There’s
one thing the modern miss won’t do,
despite all advertisers: cough up guineas
for a perm and then get it choked with
salt-water, sand and seaweed.
• * * *
“Bo”: A fine example of that tight
economy practised in the interests of
national welfare by Socialist Govern-
ments everywhere was given at a London
conference when 150 scientists and Food
Ministry experts spent two hours con-
sidering the various aspects of the humble
sausage, with particular reference to the
possible scientific method of preventing
the mysteries bursting in the pan. House-
wives, being unable to appreciate, like
scientists and bureaucrat-experts, the
niceties of the theoretical side of the
problem, long ago foolishly went straight
to the heart of it by jabbing a fork in the
snag’s belly. Thus the snork, instead of
being agitated by the fury of the bubbling
fat to the point of spitting menacingly as
a prelude to swelling up and exploding
like a grenade, was enabled to blow off
steam through these inflicted safety-valves
and so 101 l around in the fat without
further aggression. I expect to hear that
the next vital conference will be solemnly
devoted to the possible solution by radar
of the great twin problems that have for
centuries threatened to bring England to
its knees: how to prevent two frying eggs
from fusing into one hissing entity, and
how to stop a strip of frying bacon from
rolling itself annoyingly into a cylinder.
* * * «
“Jemac”: The spate of space-ship
savants which America’s James Forrestal
surfaced when he disclosed his newest
weapon (B. 5/1/’49) has originated some
novel conceptions of life 20,000 miles up.
One prognosticated that, with no gravity
to worry about, the chef would float your
soup across with a gentle push. To drink
beer, the bottle would be broken and the
floating amber island nibbled at a la
goldfish. What worries me, on behalf of
the space pioneers, is how, having caught
their aerial soup and nibbled their space-
borne beer, the nourishment is to be per-
suaded down gravity-free gullets into
similarly unrestricted intestines. No, I
think I’ll still settle for old earth, where,
except in the case of the high cost of
living and strapless bathing-suits, the law
of gravity still applies.
* * * *
“No Sirrah”: Whatever gave “One J,”
the idea that kids don’t use slates these
days (B. 29/12/’48)? They do in Queens-
land. It was a schoolkid’s slate that was
held up in the Queensland Legislative
Assembly recently as an awful example
of Communist propaganda in the
schools. It appears that a Q.P.P. branch
was holding its meeting in a State school,
and one of the, members found a slate
bearing the words “Australians rebel by
going on strike.” -Full of zeal, he took
the slate to his Parliamentary representa-
tive, who proceeded to ask a question in
the Assembly. The Minister concerned
promised, under pressure, to have the
matter looked into. Result—a letter
from the headmaster enclosing an ex-
planation. It appears that a lesson had
been given on early rebellions in Eng-
land, and from there the class had pro-
ceeded to present-day rebellions. The
master was stumped when it came to ex-
plaining why bloody rebellions were not
the usual thing in Australia, and some
bright lad put the point of view that a
strike was, in essence, a rebellion, albeit
a bloodless one. Feeling that that defini-
tion suited the case, the master had the
class write the words on their slates. He
was most hurt at the suggestion that he
had been guilty of subversive activities.
Some Government members wanted to
do a Fadden on the member who had
raised the point—asking if he would be
prosecuted for receiving stolen goods,
since he would not say from whom he
“You polish the front , Sis—Ill do the back .”
got the slate, but so far there has been
no suggestion of putting security officers
on his track.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Bagot”: When an elderly bootmaker
came to Perth from Three Springs for
his Christmas holiday he produced some-
thing that caused a stir in W.A. historical
circles. While fossicking in the dry bed
of the Irwin River after heavy floods he
came across an old fob watch. Scraping
it clean with his penknife, he found en-
graved the name “John Forrest.”. Expert
examination revealed that the silver time-
piece was made in London in 1805-06,
and the conclusion was reached that it
came to Australia in 1840 with Lord
Forrest’s father. The explorer apparently
lost it while carrying out a Government
survey of the Irwin district.
* * * *
“Mullum”: The holiday “play-centre”
at the local school is drawing good
crowds, and must be a boon to the
mothers. With games and sports
organised and controlled, the kids seem
happy enough, but not even the promise
of a ride on the fire-engine would have
lured me and my mates back to school
during the holidays. Have “security”
and “social planning” killed the adven-
turous spirit in the younger generation as
in so many of their fathers?
* * * *
“Clooter”: Every time a bunch of out-
back youngsters is brought by a charity
organisation for a holiday at the seaside,
city newspapers send unsophisticated re-
porters to interview them —unsophisti-
cated, that is, in the sense that the kids
always do the right thing” in expressing
amazement at so much water in the
sea, and ( b ) at so many people in the
cities. This sort of thing might have
been honest opinion a generation ago,
but what with illustrated journals, motion-
pictures and the radio children should no
longer become amazed about such things
and probably don’t, except when the in-
genuous reporter puts the usual leading
question. Then there was the bunch of
older youngsters-^-16 to 22—who hit
Sydney from the N.S.W. North Coast and
told a reporter that they thought the
Hawkesbury railway bridge was the
Harbor bridge. This was duly published.
Yet the Harbor bridge has been
illustrated in everything from news-
papers to calendars and souvenirs. Some-
body is having somebody on in this
business, and the culprit is best exposed
by the adventure of an A.B.C. reporter
who interviewed a small boy at Manly.
The kid’s answers were so short that the
somewhat exasperated man asked, “Don’t
you trust me?” A pregnant silence came
over the air. Then, metallic with a
mixture of sardonic doubt and cynical
humor, came the young voice, “I donit
know.” The obvious effort of the re-
porter to laiigh it off was the best feature
of the recording.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Melbourne “Sun-Pix”
told a good Christmas story. A man fell
ill at a Victorian country town and asked
the local publican for some brandy.
Bung thought he had some in the cellar,
but as the regional tipple was exclusively
beer he was seldom asked for it. Find-
ing a bottle, he poured out a drink which
moved the sick man to ask if he had any
more of the same sort. The landlord
said he had inherited 28 bottles 20 years
before when he bought the pub, and there
were still 27 left. To make room for
more beer he sold the lot to the patient
at 15s. a bottle. It then turned out that
it was Napoleon brandy, worth these days
upwards of £lO a bottle. Over the years
I have heard this story told about almost
every pub in the State, including Menzies,.
with variations rung on old Scotch and
port. Genuine Napoleon brandy is put
up in a very distinctive bottle with a glass
medallion in front stamped with the
Napoleonic arms. Even that, however, is
no guarantee of the contents.
* * * *
“Carlyle”; One of Melbourne’s horse-
drawn cabs (B. 15/12/’4B) is still in
commission at Horsham (Vic.). Bought
from Ballarat 17 years ago, its elegance
is now dimned and passengers must
tolerate its peeling paint and smoky oil-
lamp. Mick Henry runs it, and although
only in his forties he is known to all
the town as “the old cabby.” Mick
meets passengers from the Adelaide Ex-
press at 1 a.m., as well as those from all
day trains. For the Melbourne Express,
due in at 4 a.m., he conducts the most
reliable “waking-up service” in the State.
It entails a special trip to waken pros-
pective passengers at 3 a.m., and another
it the train is running late. For per-
sistent sleepers there’s an extra service;
their house is entered and the lights
turned on. All for two bob
* * * *
“A.R.8.”: “Becks” (B. 5/l/’49) is a bit
hard to get on with if he thinks there’s
any difficulty in making airs from “Aida”
sound gay What about the march “Su
. Ndo in the first act, or the
triumphal March” in the second? What
about the hefty “Praise Be to Isis,” which
incidentally has replaced “Freezer jolly-
good feller” at functions among Sydney
North Shore Choral’s men, who sang it
‘‘A^ e >P^ era 80 can ’t be too “ungay.”
Aida covers pretty well every human
emotion-ambition, pride of fulfilment,
Jove > jealousy, hate, treachery, self-
sacrifice, remorse, as well as 'the sheer
high spirits of the triumphant return of
the victors in the second act.
* * * «
“Mu skeen”: Sawney Bean (B.
29/12/’4B) had a fellow-countryman
Sawney Douglas, who also had a pro-
pensity for indulging in peculiar meals.
His downfall came one night when he
was paying his addresses to an apothe-
cary’s daughter. The lass became so
bored she fell asleep and Sawney decided
to steal her necklace of 32 pearls. He
swallowed the pearls one by one and cut
the ribbon into tiny scraps. Just as he
finished his feast she awoke and accused
him of the theft. He denied it, but the
damsel’s boy-friend turned up with some
mates, and when they placed him in a
sack and threatened to throw him out of
a second-storey window Sawney con-
fessed. The lads dosed him with an
emetic, which resulted in a return of 31 of
the pearls, but the thirty-second didn’t
make its appearance until seven doses had
been administered. It was six months be-
fore Sawney recovered from this drastic
treatment; shortly afterwards he ended
his career on Tyburn gallows.
* * « *
“Cauboy”; A woman in the Victorian
Mallee couldn’t be said to have had the
conditions for producing a family of
musicians—all the same she succeeded.
A good pianist herself, but without a
piano, she wanted to teach her children,
so she marked out the keys on the white,
scrubbed surface' of the kitchen-table.
She taught her children the soundless
fingering so well that later, when they
moved to a provincial centre and acquired
a piano, they could go straight ahead and
play it. One son and a daughter later
reached the University Conservatorium
in Melbourne and became qualified
musicians; all the others were moderate
performers.
« * ♦ ♦
“Simon”: Arthur Griffith did not
originate the jest about the N.S.W.
Legislative Council being composed of
the best men that money can buy (B.
15/12/,’48). The gag was used by vaude-
ville artist Milton Hayes, who was a
p.-0.-w. in the first war and developed
his “Meanderings” in camp concerts, tak-
ing off an English dude. He afterwards
took the act into vaudeville. Hayes died
just before the second war.
* * * 0
“Bump”: Queenscliff (Vic.) pier and
foreshore were packed with over 6000
people to witness the blessing of the seas
and fishing fleets of Australia by Arch-
bishop Booth on the second day of the
New Year. Offshore was H.M.A.S,
Culgoa, all dressed up, and yachts and
fishing-boats in plenty. The secretary of
the Pilot Service presented the Archbishop
with a silken cord with which the tradi-
tional six bells were tolled, and the Arch-
bishop made the customary remarks
about the use and abuse of God’s gifts,
A thing he might have mentioned, but
didn’t, was the fact that fish are the only
crops or flocks that Australia produces
which don’t have to be fed, whose pas-
tures aren’t subject to rent exactions,
rates and taxes, don’t have to be fenced
against rabbits and dingoes, treated for
noxious weeds, top-dressed with super.,
ploughed and harrowed, don’t suffer from
droughts, strikes and lockouts and are
immune from the rising tide of prices.
Yet seafood is expensive and almost un-
obtainable in Melbourne.
* * * «
“Harold Hardupp”: In the shopping
centre near the Hardupp home five shops
decided to make a clean sweep of the
holiday season by closing up for two
weeks. Such an action would have made
the shopkeepers of my kid days shudder.
They Valued every hour of their trading
time; when a weekly half-holiday was
first enforced my press duties included
the collection of the moans and groans
of the shopkeepers. They were all of a
pattern; rent and overhead would be
taking their cut while business slept, and
on the small profit-margins the loss of a
half-day would probably mean bank-
ruptcy. Today rent takes at least a six-
fold bite on the old margin ; and the
shopkeeper has to provide for his em-
ployees’ annual holidays, insurance
against accidents and a host of privileges.
But he takes it philosophically, and in
the shop-closure cases has evidently de-
cided that it is best to make a sweep of
his annual holidays liabilities in the time
of the after-Christmas slump, when the
best-spending customers are also away on
holidays. The loss of goodwill is no worry
at all; in a system in which demand is
far ahead of supply that fear has
vanished. It is the customer who has rea-
son for complaint nowadays.
* * * «
“Rooster”: “Uco’s” yarn about the
opera complaint (B. 29/12/’4B) reminds
me of an incident in the Portsmouth
(Eng.) Theatre Royal 20-odd years ago.
The Carl Rosa Opera Company was
playing “Faust,” and Mephistopheles,
following the stage tradition, went down
through a trapdoor, enveloped in “flame
and smoke.” I don’t know whether it
was because of this spectacle, or through
a genuine love of Old Nick by the audi-
ences, but he invariably received the
biggest hand. The night I recall a
vociferous patron behind me was still
clapping heartily long after the principals
had make their final bow. “ ’Strewth,”
he yelled to his companion. “A bloke
what can descend to ’ell an’ turn up again
all spick an’ span,night after night de-
serves a special ’and.”
TWO VOICES.
‘Addressing a Labor meeting, Sir Stafford Cripps,
Chancellor of the Exchequer, warned the people
lnc *uding the workers, against trying to
get bigger incomes.”
Times change indeed! Think what an ebullition
i would once have raised of angry scorn and
scoff,
I/ 1 ?. n °ffon of a Labor politician
Delivering a solemn admonition
Againsi attempting to get better off,
Voiced to the very people by whose grace
He has himself attained to power and place.
And here we’ve Calwell regularly throwing
Huge bouquets at himself because he’s got
A tide of immigration hither flowing
Such as was ne’er since goldfields days set going
To this admittedly salubrious spot—
A feat, assuming for their jobs they cared,
None of his predecessors would have dare'd.
Who blames them? Changing times and circum-
stances
Will often operate to make a man
More patriotic, taking fewer chances
About his stereotyped allegiances,
Less of a thoroughgoing partisan.
Let us be thankful Calwell’s come to grips
With new conditions, same as Stafford Cripps.
Cease clamoring, he tells the working section,
For bigger incomes. Sound advice, you know,
And well worth echoing here. But on reflection
I doubt if this particular direction
Will cut much ice with Chif., McGirr and Co.,
Who’ve lately been developing with vigor
Methods of making their own incomes bigger.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


• V * 5*
“Dentonio”; English novelists writing
of Australia have made some priceless
boners, but the yarn I picked up the
other day beat the lot. The opening
chapters had as setting a sheep-station
in Western Australia. The place was
referred to as a ranch and the men as
ranchers. In one descriptive passage I
learnt that “monkeys chattered in a
stretch of dim bush.” The hero, later,
telling his fiancee of his boyhood on
the station, said: “You don’t Imow what
it is to ’member the eagles and the
parrots, the carrawongs and mopokes, the
herons and the monkeys, the ostriches —
and the rest.” Distance meant nothing
to the author; the hero, having to catch
the boat to England, was driven to Syd-
ney by the station foreman. Possibly
the author had been reading some De-
partment of Information booklets?
♦ * * *
“Harry the Horse”; A bane of country
bank-tellers is the customer who will not
make out the “pay-in”'slip. We all know
.the customer who brings in the week’s
takings in a bag and tips the whole con-
tents on the counter —copper, silver and
notes all in a hopeless jumble. He then
usually lights a cigarette and watches the
teller sort out the mess while other cus-
tomers queue up. Then there is the
Chinese laundryman or vegetable-hawker
who brings in the loot in a cigar-box,
and when the teller asks “How much?”
replies “You countem.” Then when the
total is announced he disagrees and says
“Another tchillin’,” which a recount
usually proves to be correct. Then that
delightful bird who shoves across a
cheque, and, when the teller has filled in
the pay-in slip, says, “Oh! I meant to tell
you that I wanted some cash out of that,”
and the business has to be gone through
again, I remember a butcher who used
to send his wife to the bank with the
“Are you SURE the revel Was LAST night?”
takings. The silver was plentifully inter-
larded with fat and sawdust, and the
notes, when counted, always had to go
straight into the “stinker” bundle. This
estimable lady would perch her little boy
on the counter and tell him to “Watch the
funny man count the money.” Tellers
have to put up with a lot, as the trading
banks still observe the tradition of service,
But if Chif.’s One Big Bank ever
materialises a lot of people are in for
a shock.
“Pawang”: The time is approaching
when thousands of parents will be taking
their young hopefuls along to some semi-
nary or other to introduce them into
scholastic circles. I hope none of them
gets the reception a daughter of
mine got. After a few questions
to discover her proficiency in reading,
mental and other intellectual accomplish-
ments the bored principal said: “Oh, well,
I suppose we can take her.” “By the
way,” said her mother. “I ought to tell
you she’s a left-hander.” “What, another
of them? When I see a left-hander, I
see a dud,” said this fine educator of
children.
» * • *
“L.P.”: Digressing a little from hang-
ing, drawing and quartering (B.
29/12/’4B) to the good old medieval
sport of beheading, it is interesting to
note how the newsbooks of the day dealt
with such events. Under the date of
May 12, 1641, a chronicler wrote:
This day being 'appointed for the
execution of the Earl of Strafford.... on
the Scaffold he shewed himself on each side,
in full view of the people, and made a
short speech, then, taking his leave of all
the Lords, put off his Doublet himself,
turned down his shirt, and put up his hair
under his Cap, and so laid himself on the
block.
Could a column of adjectival expression
tell more of the essentials of this historic
event? The limited class of professional
journalist of those days seemed to have
a flair for describing public executions.
And they had plenty of opportunities,
too. When Sir John Hotham was exe-
cuted at Tower Hill in 1645, the chronicler
noted that from the moment the con-
demned came out of the Tower he was
“seeming very daunted, and his spirit
somewhat faintly” until the last, when
“his head went clean off in one chop.”
The executioner’s skill was similarly
recognised a week later when Archbishop
Laud suffered on the same spot; “His
head was off the first stroke.”
* * * *
“Rake”: Maybe the police did object
to Chidley’s semi-nude attire (B.
29/12/’4B), but sartorially it was both
decent and artistic. When I first spotted
him one steaming summer day near the
Quay, bareheaded, clean as a beach-
inspector in his Assam silk Greek tunic
and sandals, swinging “The Answer”
bag, he was attracting no more notice
than any well-set-up chap in shorts would
today. His physique was remarkably
good and he wore his fancy-dress duds
well. I last saw him impersonated on
the stage at the old Tivoli during ven-
triloquist Sydney James’s revue, “The
Passing Show.” His impersonator strolled
on casually towards the end, when James
accosted him and asked to the tune of
“Daisy”:
Chidley! Chidley! Give us your answer do,
What do you think of The Passing Show?
“Chid” turned “The Answer” bag round
and on the other side was printed
“Rotten.” Few variety shows of the
period were without a Chidley gag ridi-
culing the poor blighter. But on that
occasion the public wholeheartedly
agreed with “the answer.” The “Passing
Show” was a flop.
* * ♦ *
“Lao-dah”: My view of Nanking.
Freshly-severed heads were hanging from
the street trees like ripe plums, groups
of soldiers were hurrying other soldiers
off to some execution-ground or asking
a passing executioner with a huge two-
handed sword to save them the trouble,
more soldiers were being dragged out of
the city in rickshaws, gutted shops
opened black mouths on every side, the
air was full of the smoke of burning
suburbs and dandy officers were dashing
about on motor-cycles or smart hacks
completely oblivious of the chaos around
them. Reason was that the celebrated
Republican General Chang Hsun,,having
recaptured the city from a rebel army,
had withdrawn himself to his head-
quarters outside the walls to allow his
troops to reimburse themselves for their
patriotic labors with the traditional three
days of looting. The severed heads were
those of his own soldiers who hadn’t ob-
served the 'statutory three-days’ limit.
Sun Yat-sen’s glorious revolution had
been in operation for several years when
this was hannening, and I’ll be surprised
“Ssh! I'll tell you the rest at the next pub”
if conditions are much different this
time. The old Ming capital has suffered
political so often that it
must be used to them by this time.
*** . *
“Bert”; I hardly think it was what
N, S, Wales Transport Minister
O’Sullivan intended, and it would scarcely
contribute to reducing the tramway
deficit, but Iread it prominently displayed
on a SydSey tram:—
WANTED
TRAMps AND aßUSive CONDUCTORS,
The chap with the pencil had ddne a neat
job, and he must have worked quickly to
get it finished without being detected by
the crew.
* * •
“Bethune”: The general conception of
the early Britons as woad-painted
savages received another blow recently
with the discovery at Snettisham, in Nor-
folk, of several hoards of pre-Roman
coins judged by experts to date from
about 75 b.c. The latest batch, found
at the end of December, comprised 11
gold coins, three blank gold discs and 24
tin coins. Norfolk was the territory
of the Iceni, whose “warrior queen”
Boadicea led the last revolt of the Britons
against the Roman invader a century and
a half after the coins were minted. The
existence of a coinage system argues a
fairly-well-organised trading standard,
even if it is going a little too far to sug-
gest that the cache was the Iron Age
safe-deposit of a tax-dodging black-
marketer.
* * * *
“En Extra”; I don’t know to what ex-
tent postal officials get down on foreign
postage stamps on the mail they handle
(B. 12/1/’49), but I can quote one ex-
perience. In 1945 I found in a deserted
hut near Wewak a couple of Japanese
stamps. Thinking an envelope bearing
Nip stamps with an Australian Army
Field Post-office postmark would have
some philatelic value, I put them on a
letter home—sticking one on each side
of an Australian stamp—and got the
wallah at the F.P.O. to postmark them
with extra care. The letter reached home
all right and so did the Aussie stamp,
but the portraits of the bearded old Nip
who, I presume, was Emperor Meiji dis-
appeared on the way. Only consolation
is that the bloke who spoilt my souvenir
would get no profit from it. Current
value of that issue is about a bob a
thousand.
*’* * *
“Tackline S.”: Marine stewards’ tips
(B. 5/1/’49)? “Tummas McN.” holed
in one. Hardly a job do they perform on
passenger-vessels without augmentation
of wages. Many own rows of houses —
hardly in keeping with their status of
domestic servants. When a transatlantic
liner reaches her home port, a chauffeur-
driven limousine may be seen at the
gangway awaiting the chief steward’s
pleasure. The captain goes home by bus.
* * * *
“Kenwood”: In saying that a piece of
music is a statement about something,
and it is either a true or a false state-
ment, and that there is only good art and
bad art, “Spasebo” (B. 5/1 /’49) seems to
be astray in his logic. One cannot say that
water is either hot or cold—it may be luke-
warm. Similarly, is it not possible to have
art neither good nor bad, but mediocre?
A statement may be 99 per cent, true, and
one per cent, wrong, but because of this
one per cent, it is hardly fair to say the
statement is false. The logician gets over
the difficulty by saying it is either true
or not true. Water is either hot or not
hot, the latter covering all degrees of
cold or lukewarm condition, apd the not-
true anything from one to 100 per cent,
of error.
* * * *
“Melbn”: On January 13 the Victorian
Railways celebrated their 90th birthday,
That was the day in 1859 when the State’s
only puff-puff tore out of Spencer-street
station in a cloud of steam drawing six
carriages, including a State coach con-
taining Governor Sir Henry Barkly,
reaching Williamstown 22 minutes later,
There the; dais collapsed under the weight
of the official party. The engine that
hauled the train was the first made in
Australia. The locomotives ordered from
England having failed to arrive, local
engineers put their heads together and
built an iron horse off their own bat.
* * * *
“Vandemonia”; “Clooter’s” touchers
and peepers (B. 22/12/’4B) are com-
monly encountered when sightseeing. In
the old penitentiary at Port Arthur
(Tas.), a few miles from the scene of
Mr. Chifley’s bush-pub holiday, visitors
are taken across a courtyard from one
building to another. In the open space
hangs an old bell—just low enough to be
reached. The guide who was showing
our party around told me he had never
known a , visitor to pass the bell .without
ringing it! I have a suspicion that the
bell is much more modern than the ruins
and was put there specially to cater for
that peculiar “urge” that “Clooter”
wr ote about,
* * * *
“Horse”; In the goldfields police-court
the Monday-morning crop of week-end
drunks appeared to pay their respects —
and fines. There was some argument
about the circumstances surrounding the
arrest of a redhaired Irishman who
appeared much the worse for wear ; the
problem was whether he knew the man
he put a flying headlock on about closing-
time on Saturday night was a cop, “When
the constable intercepted you, were you
cognisant of his identity?” demanded the
prosecuting-sergeant, a smart type from
the city. “Eh?” blinked the accused. “I
said, when the constable intercepted you,
we re you cognisant of his identity?” re-
peated the three-striper. “Eh?” blinked
the accused again. “Listen, Paddy,”
chimed in the Beak. “When the cop put
his mitts on you, were you a wake-up?”
“My flamin’ oath I was,” retorted Paddy,
“Ten-bob,” murmured -the Beak,
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: I, too, was moved by the
appeal “Is Your Name Linda?” but for
a reason more intimate than “Ex-
C.G.’s” (B. 12/1/’49). I recalled being
spontaneously ignited on a tram by a
gorgeous spark named Linda, and later
waiting for her with pulses throbbing
the same cold, wet, windy night in July
under the big clock at Central Station
(Sydney). For 50 minutes my callow
faith persisted, but an emotion stronger
than love was burning me up when at
last I dragged myself away. Next after-
noon I read that the police were seeking
a Linda, a pretty waitress, for allegedly
pinching somebody’s pocketbook. Being
cashed-up at the time and convinced that
my light-o’-love and the light-fingered
lady were identical, I trembled at my
escape and celebrated the broken ren-
dezvous by extinguishing my still-
smouldering torch at a, milk-bar. But no
Linda has got under my guard since.
* * * •
“Sixenate”: Drunkenness as an excuse
for misbehavior will become less popular
in the Lower Courts if the attitude of one
Sydney S.M. becomes general. He was
cogitating about the assessment of the fine
for a minor offence of the order that
often brings a £1 fine when the defendant
interrupted with “I was drunk at the time,
your Worship.” “Oh, were you!” re-
marked the Beak, “Well, perhaps a
penalty that will remind you not to get
drunk and make a nuisance of yourself
is necessary. Fined £5, with costs.”
NO BRACES.
“From February 1 no Sydney or Newcastle taxi-
driver will be allowed to ply for hire while un-
shaven, or with his braces or underwear exposed.”
— N.S. IK. Transport Minister O’Sullivan.
Attend, you chaps who steer your taxis featly
And fleetly through our crowded streets and
squares!
Henceforth it’s up to you to dress as neatly
As trafiic coppers and commissionaires,
Dapper and trim you’ll have to look completely
As an inducement for prospective fares,
And see to it your outfit holds no traces
Of anything so intimate as braces.
Be sure each morn that harvest-reaping razors
Across your chin and cheeks expertly go.
Think what an ugly shock ’twould be for gazers
Upon your dial were there a beard to show.
Or anything for casual appraisers
To note more startling than a toothbrush mo.,
Which last conceivably might dodge the ban
Of Transport Minister O’Sullivan.
Think what a bad impression would be graven
On tourists’ minds, provocative of frowns,
Being conveyed to whatsoever haven
They may have chosen in our leading towns
By charioteers inadequately shaven
Or garbed in unimposing reach-me-downs,
111-fitting suits exposing here and there
Unpleasantly obtrusive underwear.
Here’s luck, you Jehus! Good it sure should
do you
To know in brighter guise more dough you’ll
earn,
And who is there but won’t be glad to view you
Apparelled nattily from stem to stern?
And, while the way you grapple clobber to you
Is undeniably your own concern,
The Minister reminds you it disgraces
Your craft if fares can see you’re wearing braces.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


THE PACIFIC ISLES
LEAD TO THE
BRITISH ISLES
WHEN YOU FLY
THE “SOUTHERN
CROSS” ROUTE WITH
mrnmmS*T
WSmSSM*.-
mm
BCPA
It’s just 6 days to Londor
when you fly via the United
States or Canada. And en route
you enjoy day-long stopovers at
Fiji and Honolulu and see the
splendid cities of the North Ameri-
can Continent. The through fare may
be paid in Australian currency.
And soon ... the 300 in.p.h. “pres-
surised” D.C.6 with full Sleeper
Accommodation.
Departures: Sundays and alter-
nate Wednesdays.
RESERVATIONS
Pull information and reserva-
tions from your local travel
agent, any T.A.A. or other airline
booking office, or BCPA Head
Office, 53 Martin Place, Sydney.
Phone BW 2T41 (15 lines).
dfs
dfs
8CA.1.16A
f
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
m
m
8
m
m
m
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, ready soon.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone >16361.
mm,
Crusader
m
in
m
m
X!
WM
1
GUARANTEED, NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
THE SERVICE MAN.
China in Crisis.
“Ek Dum”: The main winter
phase of the campaign in China
seems to be over. The condi-
tions of snow and cold and of
long distances badly covered by
rough communications roads
which are frozen quagmires and
broken - down railways with
about enough rolling-stock to fill
a tooth —must be such that there
can be little real fighting, ex-
cept among correspondents, who
are having the finest time they
have enjoyed since the glorious
days when galloping Cossacks,
armed with swords, were in the
habit of wiping out German
armies, a couple at a time, in
the morning, armor and all in-
cluded.
The great news of the week
was that 200,000 Chinese troops
had been wiped out —just like
that —by the Communists, who
“for 16 days had been firing at
point - blank range captured
American cannon and mortars
and Japanese artillery given
them by the Russians, into a sea
of human flesh.” It appears that
Chinese troops were packed so
closely in trenches that “each
shell- and mortar-burst was caus-
ing up to 15 casualties.” This
is an unapproached record for
all time. Frozen and starving
troops “waded in the blood of
their comrades” and were
chided by the “S. M. Herald’s”
staff correspondent and the
A.A.P. for failing to attend to
their wounded.
Some details are left out. It
would seem that the besieged
Chinese must have shown a
most obliging spirit moving up
closer together when they found
that the Communist guns were
not getting their normal 15 a
pop in order not to spoil the
enemy’s batting average.
And now “350,000 Communist
troops” are released from the
duty of surrounding Chiang’s
supposedly almost defenceless
and now immolated mob to try
their unerring aim on defences
further- south, where a mere van-
guard picnic party of them, con-
sisting of “six columns number-
ing 90,000 men,” is supposedly
probing the north bank of the
Yangtsz between Shanghai and
Nanking.
The truth seems to be that,
though the Communists are
better armed, both sides are
more like Attila’s hordes which
invaded Europe exactly 1500
years ago than anything
else. They are also like the
armies of India in the days
of Tippoo say, a couple
of brigades of fighting troops
reinforced by a couple of
hundred thousand ardent camp-
followers, looties and hetairai,
whose numbers swell as they
proceed by the accession of
ladies and gentlemen who feel
that they should not miss being
in on a good thing.
The Communist armies are
now spread over some 400,000
square miles of country
which us far from being com-
pletely in their hands, though
under their control. They had
done little more up to January
15 than threaten Peking and
Tientsin, but with the most salu-
tary results to themselves. In
fact, they know that the
Nationalist Government in Nan-
king is at the end of its re-
sources, its leader discredited
and his central control Yuan
following his example and re-
questing the Communists to
make.peace.
Some of his generals have
already gone over to the other
side according to the prudent
habit of Chinese generals.
Over the week-end Chiang
held a review of 20,000 troops
at a ceremony which is taken by
the daily press to mean that he
has given up the ghost as
Generalissimo.
. He and the Sun Fo Cabinet
are said to be immersed in
“vital conferences” with the
leaders of the Kuo-min-tang
over the proposed peace terms
which have been submitted by
the Communists’ general, Mao
Tsz-tung. From Chiang’s point
of view they should not call for
much “conferring,” since the
first demand on the list is “trial
of war criminals,” who are
named with Chiang and Madame
Chiang in positions Nos. 1 and 2.
t'he rest of the terms include
elimination of “reactionaries”
from the Government —every-
one who is not persona grata
with the Communists —confisca-
tion of “bureaucratic” capital,
which means anything the Com-
munists desire to lay hands on,
“land reforms” and —with a
view to pulling down the Iron
Curtain —“repudiation of the
treacherous treaties with im-
perialist Powers.” It all is very
much like the Russian settle-
ments with Czechoslovakia and
"Give me the rest of your pretties — we’ll have 'em
starched and ironed
Hungary, paving the way for
confiscation of British, U.S. and
other European assets in China.
In any other country but
China it would be safe to say
that everything was over bar the
flight and executions of incon-
venient personages.
Deserted by the once-faithful
world’s* press which not so long
ago was hailing him as the
greatest and most indomitable
fighter except Timoshenko,
Budenny and Mihailovich (who
became a coward and discredited
like Chiang when he found him-
self on the opposite side to the
U.S.S.R.), Chiang has now a
bankrupt Government, no
friends to speak of, no arms or
resources, and no doubt he is
weary of wars which he has
been involved in off and on and
on various sides for more than
20 years.
But he has been in fixes as
bad as, if not worse than, the
present one. And so has China.
Nearly everything in the history
of the next year depends on the
extent of Russia’s support of the
Communist armies and the
ability of those strange mobs to
feed themselves in middle and
southern China, which is already
starving completely in parts and
so disunited that it has ceased
to be a country or part of
country and has become an
agglutination of uncontrolled
humans which is doing only one
thing efficiently—spawn.
"Scorched Earth."
“Ek Dum”: What continues
to happen in Indonesia adds
further point to the feeling
which is beginning to be gen-
eral that the sooner the British
Commonwealth withdraws from
U.N.O. and forms a properly-
united British bloc the better it
will be for the world and for
peace. This should be possible
if Dr. Evatt is right in saying
that the British Commonwealth
is now “stronger than ever be-
fore.” And if it isn’t and the
statement was merely one of the
Minister’s normal pieces of airy
nonsense, it is time to take steps
to make it strong, because pre-
sently it will need strength—and
unity—more than it has needed
them in the past century.
There are two phases in In-
donesia which impress them-
selves on the mind. One is that
the United States has made it
clear that it would be fatal to
order the Netherlands to with-
draw from the territory which
it occupied in Java recently be-
cause it is almost certain, on
the basis of statements of Mr.
Van Royen, the Netherlands
delegate to the Council, that if
any order is issued the Dutch
will merely put their fingers to
their noses, thus proving
U.N.O.’s utter futility and
powerlessness.
Meanwhile, guerrilla warfare
has begun, making it quite ob-
vious that the Republicans favor
Communist methods.
The team of military ob-
servers from U.N.O. reports
that the guerrillas are concen-
trating on the destruction of
facilities and property which will
make it impossible for the
Dutch to carry on in the terri-
tory which they occupied so
swiftly and with practically no
resistance worth the name,
“Destruction of roads and
bridges and property is still tak-
ing place on a much greater
scale than was expected by the
Netherlands Army.” Railways
are being cut and “hundreds” of
bridges have been destroyed.
Towns have been so seriously
damaged that they have become
virtually uninhabitable, together
with numbers of villages. Loot-
ing, especially of Chinese mer-
chants, has been extensive.
So far as Java is concerned,
the Netherlands Government
flatly denies the U.N.O. report
that the guerrillas have suc-
ceeded in disrupting communica-
tions and destroying property on
a major scale. It accuses the ob-
servers of being “not free from
partiality,” and states that they
give “a completely misleading
picture of the real situation.” It
is said that the observers did
not visit Central Java and based
their report on conditions there
on “supposition.”
Similar complaints are made
about some press correspond-
ents, though not officially. The
“Bataviaas Nieuwsblad” on Jan.
11 stated that “when formerly
numerous acts of terrorism in
Federal areas, the murdering of
village chiefs and villagers, the
destroying of valuable economic
property were pointed out to
them.... one could be sure that
about those acts of terrorism
nothing would be filed.... but
now the peculiar thing happens
that those same correspondents
file stories of every act of terror-
ism they can find and invent a
couple more and use them as
proof of the restless activity of
the Republic. Those acts of


Public Notices.
I, FRANCIS WIZA, of Polish nationality,
bom at Lubeck, Poland, and resident 11
months in Australia, now residing at 4
Bamcleuth Square, Elizabeth Bay, Syd-
ney, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act, 1920-1946.
I, MARIOS SAMIOS, of Greek nation-
ality, born at Mytelene, Greece, and resi-
dent 24 years in Australia, now residing
at 7 Amelia Street, Waterloo, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act, 1920-1946.
I, ERIC HAMMOND, of Czechoslovakian
nationality, born at Sumburk, Czechoslo-
vakia, and resident nine years six months
in Australia, now residing at 47 Cham-
berlain Avenue, Rose Bay, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act; 1920-1946.
I, KARL SVERRE TRONDSEN, of Nor-
wegian nationality, born at Bodo, County
Steigen, Norway, and resident 22 years in
Australia, now residing at Jennifer Street,
Little Bay, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act,
1920-1946.
tA
17
FOR
uracy
ACC
AND
ctioH
OlSf» N
W flTCtf S
villeret
Loo
na
HUvseffJ
Help
i■. f' \
NO FOOLING, KID, THAT SISTER;
OF YOURS HAS ME'GOING’
k DOWN FOR THEJHIRD TIME !
BUT,YOU’RE NOT SUNK
YET, HANK! GOSH! ALL'
,YOU NEED IS SOMEC
FIRST AID FROM YOUR."
DENTIST ON BAD BREATH!
LATER Thanks to Colgate Dental Cream
TO COMSAT BAD BREATH I
’ RECOMMEND COLGATE DENTAL*'
CREAM! FOR SCIENTIFIC testsJ
PROVE THAT IN 7 OUT OF 10 -
J CASES. COLGATE'S INSTANTLY
STOPS BAD BREATH THAT
. IN THE MOUTH I .
AM
"HERE'S WHY: COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
, HAS AN ACTIVE PENETRATING FOAM THAT
*GETS INTO HIDDEN CREVICES BETWEEN
.TEETH HELPS CLEAN OUT DECAYING
* FOOD PARTICLES AND SO REMOVES THE
| CAUSE OF MUCH UNPLEASANT BREATH.
AND COLGATE'S POLISHING AGENT CLEANS
ENAMEL THOROUGHLY. GENTLY., SAFELY I"
4?
NO HELP NEEDED NOW.
►■’U GUESS* THAT tip on
COLGATE'S SPELLED SUCCESS!
, \
h
D+Jiea
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
Cleans Your Breath While
It Cleans Your Teeth :
Always use
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
after you eat and before every dole
No Investor Can Afford
To Be Without It
ECONOMIC REVIEWS
INVESTMENT ANALYSES
MINING NOTES
Single Copies .. .. ~ 2/
Yearly Subscription . . . . 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George-street, Sydney, and all States.
terrorism now suddenly prove
the Republic’s fighting-power
and energy and the Republic’s
hatred roused by the Dutch mili-
tary action.”
In Sumatra, before bolting
from the oil centre, Jambi, the
Indonesians fired 13 wells,
according to Mr. Ward Price,
of the London “Daily Mail,” at
the same time putting a firestick
into the centre of the business
quarter of the town. On January
3 it was estimated that the fires
were consuming about £3OOO-
- of oil a day. This oil is
British property to a large ex-
tent, because it belongs to Royal-
Dutch-Shell, in which there is a
40 per cent. British interest.
“Thousands of tons” of raw
rubber was also set on fire in
Sumatra as it lay awaiting trans-
port to Singapore.
These things are happening
in areas where the bulk of in-
habitants are quietly submitting
to the Dutch rule and showing
relief at having law and order
restored after a period of
terrorism and corruption.
The scorched-earth policy is,
of course, being used discrimi-
nately against the “capitalist.”
But the actual effects will fall
on the unfortunate lower-class
inhabitants. Cut roads and rail-
ways and destruction of re-
sources mean unemployment
and starvation. Damage will
have to be recouped by which-
ever side wins.
The strange thing is that
U.N.O. has nothing to say
against this savagery. If the
Dutch perpetrated it there would
be half a dozen delegates, in-
cluding the Australian ones, yell-
ing blue murder. But Dr. Evatt
and his committees appear to
have a different code for their
Asiatic friends and for Euro-
peans,
In fact, a cynic might be in-
clined to believe that unless one
of Canberrans new allies hasn’t
a few atrocities on recent record
it is not valued at all. Murder
of Europeans in Malaya is con-
doned —it is by Communists,
Invasion of Nationalist China
and Viet Nam atrocities have
not raised a word of protest —
they are by Communists or
backed by them. Burma is
treated as if it were an ancient
ally. Yet its “freedom”-loving
liberators of 1947 were last year
murdered in their own cabinet-
room they were led by a
Japanese collaborator, U Aung
San, who, with major-general’s
rank, Commanded a Burmese
division in the Japanese Army
right up to 1944 and who, like
some of the rest of the
“patriots” who now rule, were
our enemies, ready to kill Aus-
tralians and swear fealty to the
Japanese Emperor until they
found that Japan hadn’t got a
chance.
In India, Gandhi, the father
of liberation, was murdered last
year. In Pakistan tens of
thousands of lives were sacrificed
only a few months ago. In
Egypt the architect of “freedom”
from British rule, Nokrashy
Pasha, was murdered a week or
so ago. In Palestine the killing
of dozens of innocent British
soldiers sent there to keep order
and protect 1 the Jews does not
appear to have disturbed the
“Government.”
In Indonesia, Australian
R.A.A.F. men engaged on
rescuing p.0.w., British sol-
diers engaged in promoting
peace or in ousting the Japanese,
a nurse or two, and' Dutch
women and children have been
at various times butchered;
while some of the leaders on the
Republican side were willing col-
laborators with General Tanabe
Moritake, C.-in-C. of the 25th
Japanese Army, and Generals
Yahagi Nakao, Yamanoto
Shozo and Fukaya Tatsuo, who,
on December 31, were sentenced
to death for maltreatment of
p.o.w. (including Australians),
internees and Indonesian slave
workers in Sumatra.
Our Foreign Policy has found
for us strange bedfellows indeed.
The Bombing of Japan.
“Ek Dum”: It is the fashion
in uninformed circles to believe
that the bombing of Japanese
cities was the factor which
brought that country to its
knees.
Major-General J. F. C. Fuller,
in his striking analysis of the
situation in The Second World
War, is, however, pretty accurate
in saying that “the most strik-
ing thing about the results of
the bombing of Japan is that,
in the face of the appalling de-
struction, decline in morale was
exceedingly slow and was not
primarily the effect of bombing
—the primary factor in the
lowering of morale was the
shortage of food, the secondary
the defeat of the armed forces.”
The U.S. Strategic Bombing
Survey report declared that the
Emperor largely escaped the
criticism which was directed at
other leaders, and retained the
people’s faith in him. It is prob-
able that most Japanese would
have passively faced death in a
continuation of the hopeless
struggle had the Emperor so
ordered. When the Emperor an-
nounced the unconditional sur-
render the first reaction of the
people was one of regret and
surprise, followed shortly by re-
lief.
The Survey declared: “It is
our opinion that by August,
1945, even without direct air
attack on her cities and indus-
tries, the over-all level of
Japanese war production would
have declined below the peak
level of 1944 by 40 or 50 per
cent, solely as a result of the
interdiction of overseas im-
ports.”
It is made clear that it was
intended, if there had been no
surrender, to drop a further
800,000 tons of incendiaries on
Japan. within the next nine
months—a war on the civilian
population as a monstrous
supplement to ' a nine-months
land-invasion campaign which
the Allies expected to have to
carry through.
The UiS. Strategic Bombing
Survey report shows clearly
how wantonly expensive was the
whole business and how relent-
lessly the plans were directed to
the winning of the war by the
destruction of ordinary citizens
and their homes a policy
against which the British always
sternly set their faces and
which, when it • was carried out
in Europe on one occasion, led
to consequences for those
responsible which were most un-
pleasant for them.
The Survey declared that in
spite of the large built-up areas
destroyed by incendiary bomb-
ing, plants “specifically attacked
with high explosive were limited
in number”;
The railway system had not yet
been subjected to substantial attack
and remained in reasonably good
operating condition at the time, of
the surrender. Little damage was
suffered which interfered with main-
line operation. Trains were running
through Hiroshima 48 hours after the
dropping of the first atomic bomb on
the city. Damage to local transport
facilities, however, seriously disrupted
the movement of supply within and
between cities, thereby hindering
production, repair work and dispersal
operations... .Ninety-seven per cent,
of Japan’s stocks of guns, shells, ex-
plosives and other military supplies
were thoroughly protected in dispersal
or underground storage depots and
were not vulnerable to attack.
The report mak£s it clear that
Japan’s failure was in loss of
shipping, which left her steel-
mills, bauxite plants and oil
depots empty and immobilised
her Navy and made it a ready
sacrifice. Spectacular as the
effort against civilian life was,
its effects merely put the finish
to the situation, and the ulti-
mate results could have been
achieved more cheaply;
A successful attack on the Hak-
kodate rail-ferry, the Kanmon tun-
nels and 19 bridges and vulnerable
sections so selected as to set up five
separate zones of complete inter-
diction would have virtually elimi-
nated further coal movements, would
have immobilised the remainder of
the rail system through lack of coal,
and would have completed the
strangulation of Japan’s economy.
This strangulation would have more
effectively and efficiently destroyed the
economic structure of the country
than individually destroying Japan’s
cities and factories. It would have
reduced Japan to a series of isolated
communities, incapable of any sus-
tained industrial production, incapable
of moving food from agricultural
areas to the cities, and incapable of
rapid large-scale movements of troops
and munitions.
The Survey declared that such
an attack, if well planned in ad-
vance, might have been initi-
ated by carrier-based attacks on
shipping and on the Hakkodate
ferry in August, 1944, and could
have been continued by aerial
mining of internal waterways
and the railways. It believed
that against 100,000 tons of
bombs used to destroy civilian
life and factories with 15,000
sorties, “the force required for
the complete interdiction of the
railway services would have
been 650 829 visual sorties de-
livering 5200 tons of h.e.
bombs.”
Thus the campaign was ob-
viously enormously wasteful, be-
sides being a bitterly cruel one.
In an oblique way it was a help
to the Japanese, since it de-
stroyed, in the main, people who
were not food-producers. And
it also increased the labor short-
age in the period of reconstruc-
tion, when the Allies had con-
trol.
It was the kind of campaign
which one hopes will never be
fought again by Western peoples.
The New B36.
New particulars which are
arriving about larger bombers
of the 1947 era make it clear
what a war in a quarter of a
century will be like.
The Seventh Wing of the 20th
U.S, Air Jporce is now equipped
with 83685, a development of
the 836 which, in its first service
form, was a training machine to
develop the technique of long-
range missions in the 5000-mile
class. Some of the training runs
done by the existing wing have
included round-trips of up to
8000 miles without landing, at
average speeds in the 220 m.p.h.
range.
This means that the aircraft
could bomb Karachi from
London and return, or Sydney
from Singapore and return.
The new version 8368 has
3000 h.p. added, for take-off, by
water injection, to the 21,000
h.p. which the six pusher en-
gines develop—they are using
Pratt and Whitney R-4360-495.
The power is certainly needed to
send along 326,0001 b. of aircraft
at the kind of speeds at which
these monsters will have to
fly.
The designed maximum bomb-
load is two 42,0001 b. bombs or
72,0001 b, of smaller bombs.
About 10,0001 b. can be carried
over 10,000 miles. The aircraft
can be adapted to carry 84,0001 b.
of freight, loaded on six-wheeled
trolleys.
The wing tanks hold 21,116
gallons, to which 12,000 gallons
can be added in bomb-bay tanks
if necessary.
The layout presents nothing
very new. The fuselage holds
pressurised compartments fore
ami aft connected by a tunnel
85ft. long. A small trolley runs
from one end to the other. The
crew consists of 15 men —three
pilots, four navigator - bomb-
aimers, two flight-engineers, two
radio-operators and four air-
gunners. These are all provided
with bunks in the tail section of
the aircraft.
The first run of 836 s were not
armed. The run which is now
being got ready will be. They
will not be very easy for in-
cautious fighters to approach.
All the barbettes will be re-
motely-controlled and most of
them will be radar-sighted.
The tail group will consist of
one 37mm. and two 20mm.
cannon. Two dorsals in front of
the fin will each mount two
20mm.. and there will be two
more turrets of the same type
just behind the cockpit and two
more 20mm. in the nose. Belly
protection will be given by a
couple of 20mm. twin-barbettes
beneath the rear fuselage—a
total of one 37mm. and 16
20mm. cannon. Some of the
barbettes are retractable.
The machines are being made
by Cbnvair, and now that their
experimental stage is over they
are expected to come off the
line at the rate of about one a
week. The first order is for 100.
There are some weird and
wonderful and very impressive
machines which have passed the
experimental stage in the United
States —craft like the flying wing,
B-49A, which is equipped with
eight jet engines.


*
It is the years oi Maturing
that make them Muring
ESTABLISHED 1847
Gtlondo
WINES _
PERSONAL ITEMS
Nothing like getting to know your own
property. I. C. Geddes, chairman and
director of the Orient Line, out here in
his Orcades, spent the trip breaking-in
the liner’s air-conditioned self-contained
flat.
In Melbourne per Orcades, W. A.
Siiby, ex-head of Wycliffe public school.
Wycliffe is probably unique in England
and the Empire in that it runs a house
where the boys, like G. B. Shaw, feed on
nothing but greens. They tend to confirm
the playwright’s claims for his dietary
habits by persisting in winning the annual
cross-country race, which they’ve done for
the past 10 years, oyer normal beef-fed
bodies. But the vegetarian house is prob-
ably more remarkable in that among half
a hundred boys there is none who has dis-
covered the possibilities of a ladder of
knotted sheets tied to a bed-post at one
end and a village beef-steak at the other.
Flying to Australia in March to confer
with Government reps, on proposals
for a National Theatre, Tyrone Guthrie,
doyen of English producers. He began to
make his name with productions regarded
as audacious in the ’thirties, and it was
during his management of the Old Vic.
that Ralph Richardson and Laurence
Olivier first stepped into the histrionic
limelight. Guthrie ran that theatre and
Sadler’s Wells all through the Hitler-war
years. Since then he’s produced for the
Theatre Guild in U.S., directed opera at
Covent Garden and has just finished ad-
vising the Jewish State on how to equip
itself with a National Theatre. He will
probably be followed to Australia by
another English producer with a nucleus
of actors to start off the home-grown
enterprise on Old Vie. lines.
The 25th Doctorate of Science handed
out by Queensland Uni. was recently col-
lected by William McDougall, entomolo-
gist at Maekay sugar-cane experimental
station. What’s kept the Scot occupied for
the past 10 years is the sweet-tooth of rats,
and his work on their breeding habits
and how best to get the rodents to chew
poison with their sugar earned him the
commendation of the overseas examiners
for the degree. At the ’Varsity the new
doctor got blues in tennis, cricket and
football, was N.Q. tennis champ, for a
tune and had a racquet named after him.
He also golfs, but admits that his present
game wouldn’t get him a blue in a kinder-
garten.
Trinco : Tomorrow (Jan. 20) the resignation
ot General George Marshall as U.S. Sectary
ot State becomes effective. Described as
the greatest American military genius since
Stonewall Jackson, a man of the people, and
a soldier without frills, the man is summed
up pretty accurately by that eulogy. Born on
Dec. 18, 1880, in Uniontown (Pa.), an Atlantic-
seaboard State, Marshall was the son of a
prosperous coal-and-coke industrialist there. His
was a single-minded ambition, and he initiated
it at the Virginia Military Institute, where
Stonewall Jackson was once an instructor. He
graduated from the V.M.I. in 1901, and is the
only Army officer in modern times to become
Chief of the U.S. Staff without having attended
West Point. His elevation to the light of the
hierarchical sun came after 27 years of quietly-
distinguished service in the Philippines, as Chief
of Operations for the Ist Army in France in
the Kaiser’s war and as Pershing’s aide after
the Armistice. His invincible modesty kept him
practically unknown to the public, and in 1939,
when a new chief qf staff had to be appointed,
he seemed to be buried out of sight. He
was outranked by 20 major-generals and 14
brigadiers. Yet the beckoning Presidential finger
reached down through those coils of gold braid
and tapped the 35th in line. Marshall accepted
his responsibility the day Hitler marched into
Poland; how he discharged it —the mobilisation,
organisation, equipping and training of America’s
military forces, which grew from 174,000 to
more than million men, backed by an air
force of over 69,000 planes—is history. When
the soldier turned diplomat—the change was
actually only on paper; he has always been
both—he took his smooth, easy drive into the
strident chaos of Washington politics. There,
as in the field, his office was peculiarly free
of shouting and desk-thumping— except once,
when a correspondent mentioned him as a
Presidential possibility in 1944. The General
promptly and vehemently shattered that pos-
sibility in terms which, according to a grinning
officer who was listening, “a Missouri mule-
skmner hadn’t heard.” Marshall had kept him-
self muscular and springy with hunting, riding
and fishing, but at 68 it seems a recent kidney
operation warned the old soldier it was time
to slow down.
“C.Q: Sir Kenneth Clarke, in Mel-
bourne by invitation of the Felton Be-
quest and National Gallery trustees to
consult on picture-buying, is a former
director of the N.G. in London. Here’s
an incident he may remember. A young
Melbourne artist with a passion for see-
ing pictures only under the best condi-
tions found to his disgust when he went
to view the London institution’s offerings
that all were glassed. Not interested in
seeing his reflection repeated many times,
he went home, fitted himself with an
enormous black hood that reared over his
head and fell to his waistline, but pierced
with a small hole in front, and returned
to get his unspoiled view of the pictures.
When the attendants sighted the appari-
tion approaching they momentarily
panicked, plucked up courage to remon-
strate with it, and when this failed
hastened to the director and told him
there was a madman in the building.
Running down. Sir Kenneth interviewed
the monster, which invited him to a
demonstration. The demonstrator must
have proved his point, for the director
instructed his assistants to let the young
man operate his queer contraption as
often as he wanted to.
Australian-born caricaturist H. M.
Bateman recently suggested the founding
of a National Gallery of Comic Art in
England to provide a day-to-day record
of' events. If it arrived Bateman’s own
eccentric records would be a prominent
feature in it, but the difficulty would be
to draw the line between the consciously
comic products of the professional car-
toonist and the unconsciously-so efforts
of the “moderns.” Bateman was born at
Sutton Forest, N.S.W., in 1887, but learned
his calligraphic and artistic pothooks in
England. He did long and rigorous study
in the studio of Charles van Havenmaet
as a painter, but in 1906 both master and
pupil discovered his metier wasn’t high
art. Since then Bateman has given birth
to a stream of satiric comment which has
gained him global recognition.
The sole proprietor of the visage here
attacked by Mcßeath is A. C. Marshall,
better known among the farmers and
sheepmen of the new Federal electorate
of Paterson by the prefix “Cam.” He’s
after the Liberal endorsement for the
N.S.W. seat, and has an outstanding asset
—he can speak. When the King was here
as Duke of York in 1927, Marshall, then
country vice-president of the R.S.L., got
“CAM” MARSHALL.
on his feet and delivered a forceful
mouthful that impelled the Duke to make
to the Premier the surprised, and prob-
ably grateful, comment that it was “a
magnificent speech.” Marshall was at
both wars, four years in the A.I.F. in the
first and the same time with the R.A.A.F
m the second. The artist, who caught
him when on a visit to Melbourne re-
cently, has treated him kindly—the subject
admits that his physog. carries more lines
than Flmders-street station.
One of the delegates to the annual con-
ference of the Australian and N.Z.
Association for the Advancement of
Science, being held in Hobart, is Arthur
Denning, B.Sc., Dip. Ed., A.S.T.C., caught
here by Dubois in the act of enthusiasti-
cally expounding his views on technical
education, of which he’s a recognised
authority.. He holds the double-barrelled
job of Deputy-Director of Technical Edu-
cation in N.S.W. and Provisional Director
of the N.S.W. Technical University, which
is the first of its kind in the British
Empire, Though it still awaits housing
in the imposing edifice which, is due to
ARTHUR DENNING.
rise where once the ponies thundered
past at “Kenso,” the university is now in
operation, though necessarily scattered,
mostly around the big Technical College
at Ultimo. Holding strongly the view
that a State’s industrial greatness is based
on the strength of its technical experts,
Denning has made his goals the broaden-
ing of courses on the highest technological
levels and the specialising in post-graduate
work, and he expects that soon a steady
flow of well-trained graduates will build
up industrial management to ever-higher
standards. Early in his career he was a
lecturer in physics at Sydney Uni. and
later lecturer in mathematics at the
Technical College, shooting up meteori-
cally to his present posts. Before taking
up golf, which he plays off a respectable
middle-mark, he whacked them over the
net,
“Dignity in the face of death” could
have been the citation attached to a
posthumous George Cross awarded a few
weeks ago to Lance-corporal David
Russell, of 22 Battalion, Second N.Z.E.F.
Born in Scotland, Russell was working in
Hawkes Bay (MX.) in 1939, and the day
Hitler’s war broke he stepped into a re-
cruiting office, sailing soon afterwards
for the Western Desert with the
2nd Echelon. ‘ Captured in 1942, just be-
fore Alamein, he was taken to Italy, broke
free and lived with a peasant family,
maintaining contact with other prisoners
in like circumstances until, in 1945, Italian
troops caught him and delivered him to
the Germans. Refusing to incriminate
his shelterers, Russell was beaten up, then
tied to a stable wall and told that if he
didn’t open up within three days he’d be
shot. He kept his silence, and the Ger-
mans, after further beltings, shot him.
In recognition of his heroism, the
peasants his silence had saved clubbed
together and erected a headstone over
his grave—a tribute valued, no doubt, by
the boy’s father in Scotland as much as
the blue ribbon of his Cross.
Australian vocalists continue to make
good in England. John Lanigan, the
young Melbourne singer, who has equal
talents as all actor, and who was one of
the stars of the National Theatre move-
ment, has been given leading roles in “La
Boheme” and “Rigoletto” at the Stoll
Opera House for the forthcoming opera
season. Glenda Raymond, another Mel-
burnian, will play Rosina in “The
Barber. ’ This is unusual for a company
mainly recruited from Italians, Lanigan
was in Melbourne when the Italian opera
season was on at His Majesty’s last year.
When Anthony Eden’s plane puts him
down in Auckland at the end of the
month he’ll be in a city stiff with his
name. Preference for Eden —there’s even
a jail of the name —derives from An-
thony’s kin ; it was the family name of
Lord Auckland, after whom the N.Z. city
was named.
From T. W. White, a former
“Guest of the Unspeakable”:
Old Diggers who were prisoners in Turkey in
World War I will be sorry to learn of the death
of Selim Zaki, Chief of Police in Egypt, in a
bomb outrage in Cairo recently. With Zaki out
xr i e , way> the assassination of Prime Minister
N okra shy Pasha was effected soon afterwards
by the Moslem Brotherhood, the terrorist body
that its victim sought to suppress. Zaki and
Captain Stephen White (no relation) were cap-
tured on the day Turkey came in, when on
reconnaissance near the Suez Canal. Together
they spent most of their captivity at Afion
Kara Hissar, in Asia Minor, and when hos-
tilities ended both returned to senior posts,
Stephen White as Miralai White Bey, Chief of
Police and Deputy-Governor of Suez, and Zaki
as deputy to Russell Pasha, the renowned
British Chief of Police in Egypt. Zaki carried
out many secret missions and had a reputation
as a brave and single-handed sleuth who arrested
many terrorists following the assassinations of
two previous Prime Ministers, Ahmed Maher
Pasha and Butros Ghali Pasha, and Britishers
Lord Morne and Sirdar Sir Lee Stack. I met
Zaki again, with Ahmed Maher Pasha, in
Cairo in 1938. The Prime Minister regretted
the casualties of the recent elections, but said
that it were better then than afterwards! His
assassination followed his declaration of war
on Germany and Japan. During the first war
Zaki .had been in the exceptional position of
holding a British Army commission, and was
intensely pro-British. Yet his late chief Nokrashy
gained prominence by anti-British activity. But
in .Egypt, the patriot, the Britisher and the
politician are alike the target of the uncaring
terrorist.
“F.S.”: The death of Edward Goll, in
Melbourne last week, removed probably
the most distinguished musician and
teacher ever to take up residence in Aus-
tralia. Born in Prague in 1884, the oldest
of a large family, he learnt his musical
alphabet from his father, Dvorak, re-
cognising his talent, entered him, as a
12-year-old, at the Vienna Conservatoire.
He did the nine years’ course in years,
in the accelerated process winning the
Rubinstein Prize, the chief pianistic
award in Europe—a fellow-competitor
was Backhaus —and at \A\ was touring
Europe. In 1910 he played Russia and
U.K. with violinist Kubelik, came to
Australia in 1911, returned in 1913 with
consumption, cured that and in 1914
founded the first Master School of piano-
playing at Melbourne Uni. A delightful
man and an inspiring teacher, Goll turned
out from his home at Mont Albert a
succession of brilliant pupils. Crowds
used to stand outside listening to the
music he played in the evenings. When-
ever Friedman came to Melbourne he
invariably went to Goll’s house, and one
of my own pleasantest recollections is of
the pair playing three concertos on Goll’s
two pianos, with myself the only audi-
ence. An added attraction was Goll’s
dinners—he was a connoisseur of wines
and a magnificent cook, and could talk as
appetisingly on food as he could on music.
Off to the Continent to attend a series
of Army schools in U.K, and Germany,
29-year-old Major Colin East must be
the only soldier of 8.C.0.F. entitled to
wear the U.S.A. Paratroopers’ and
GJiderman wings. He gained them at
Sendai, Japan, in 1947,
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 57, Mike Connors, the micro-
phone psychologist to whom most hospital
radios in range were tuned during his hospital
early-morning session. He came to Australia
from New York 30 years ago on a six-months’
stage contract and forgot to go back, A
sprightly, cheery fellow who will be widely
missed.
In Melbourne, at 91, John May, one of the
best-known Yarraside brokers. A member of
the Stock Exchange for 38 years, he was
a partner of the late John McWhae before
he formed his own firm. Before entering the
commercial world he was classics master at the
Presbyterian Ladies’ College. The first president
of the Heidelberg Bowling Club, he was the
author of Our Game, a best-seller amongst Aus-
tralian bowlers.
In Melbourne, at 61, Julius Richard Nowack,
managing-director of the British United Shoe
Machinery Co. He changed his firm over to
making machine-gun spares during the last war.
In Sydney, at 73, Thomas B. Costello, licensee
of the Commercial Hotel, Parramatta, who was
rated as one of the best Rugby Union forwards
in the ’nineties and the early years of this
century. Former captain of the Glebe club,
he took a representative N.S.W. team to M.L,
in 1901. A foundation-member of the Rugby
League, he was a referee in the code and was
later created a life-member.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Showers of rain during the afternoon
sent women racegoers at Caulfield scurry-
ing for protection for frilly frocks and
pretty flowery hats, Mrs. J. Bowen Pain’s
white chiffon frock was printed in a
parma-violet design, and her natural straw
hat was trimmed with black tulle. Mrs.
Bill Gluth covered her navy-blue-and-
white frock with a plain navy-blue coat
and her small white hat was edged with
broderie Anglaise and trimmed with black
cherries. Mrs. Pat Bell’s Chartreuse dress
had a pleated hemline, and her natural straw
hat was ruched with gold-toned taffeta
and finished with a large bunch of butter-
cups at one side. Mrs. Norman Robin-
son was smart in a grey suit, and her small
white boater was finished with grey veil-
ing, spotted in brown chenille. Lady
Wales wore a very attractive grey and
burgundy-patterned frock, and her match-
ing burgundy straw hat was trimmed with
contrasting dusty-pink taffeta ribbon.
Australis Waller, who came from Eng-
land on the Orcades, chose a softly-
tailored frock of lemon-toned silk, piped
in white and she was with the Kaufman
sisters —Daphne in navy blue with a
natural straw hat and its trimming of
navy blue and Sadie, who contrasted her
navy-blue frock with white accessories.
Mrs. Harry Way chose a blue-and-
white-patterned silk jacket suit and smart
white hat, and Mrs. G. O’Connor’s white-
and-navy-blue-printed frock carried white
accessories. Bettine Burgess wore a
lemon-toned silk and edged the skirt and
sleeves with dull-green for smart contrast.
Her hat was of black straw. Mrs, Edward
Briggs chose an unusual hat of navy-blue
straw which was lined with dusty-pink
and trimmed with lily-of-the-valley. She
wore it with a smart navy-blue jacket suit.
Judy Kiddle’s pretty blue-and-white-
spotted silk frock was worn with a
panama, and Valerie Sutherland-Smith
wore a simply tailored white silk pique
frock. Mrs. A. G. Hunter’s smart dusty-
pink linen suit was worn with white hat
and accessories,- and Mrs. Albion Walkely
chose a navy-and-white floral ensemble
and navy-blue-and-white hat.
The late-afternoon party giyen on the
Orcades, with R. H. Norman of the
Orient Line as host, gave the press an
opportunity of exploring the graceful and
costly ship. Greatly admired were the de-
lightful lounge and comfortable chairs
and couches; the attractively-furnished
suites, the swimming-pool and wide ex-
panse of promenade decks. Among the
guests were Jill Rice, a pretty English
girl holidaying in this country, and Misses
Betty Doubleday and E. Sturrocks.
Sheila Helpmann returned home on the
Orcades, accompanied by her mother.
She has many pleasant memories; most
important was seeing brother Bobby in
scenes of “Red Shoes,” a picture in which
he dances. Just as Sheila and her mother
left London, Bobby began a season of
ballet at Covent Garden. Gertrude Law-
rence and Noel Coward are two of the
famous people she met in London. Sheila
appeared there in a Restoration play and
later went on tour for some weeks. She
is enthralled with Princess Margaret, who
has a “marvellous dress sense and a gay
and vivacious personality.”
On the eve of her departure with
daughter Robin, in the Strathaird, for
London, Mrs. Walters and her husband,
Air-Commodore A. L. Walters, enter-
tained friends at an informal party in
their St. Kilda-road flat. An attractive
off-the-shoulder black taffeta ballerina
y frock was worn by Mrs. Walters, and
Robin was in a harlequin-patterned light-
weight wool frock with a flared skirt and
tailored bodice. Among the guests were
Mrs. M. Mollison, whose gaily-patterned
silk frock was of graceful design,
Beryl Hadley, wearing a black frock
printed in a small floral design, Dorothy
Archer, who combined honey-toned chif-
fon and lace to make an effective frock,
and her sister, whose royal-blue chiffon
frock featured a very full ballerina skirt
and a bodice draped over the shoulders
to form sleeves. Other guests included
Mr. and Mrs. W. Baker and First Officer
lan Sinclair, of the Strathaird.
Eleanor, daughter of the late Wilbur
Ham, K.C., and Mrs. Ham, celebrated
her engagement to Arthur Pelham, only
son of Mrs. H. P, Webb, North Balwyn,
with a party at her home, Eildon, Toorak.
An old St. Catherine’s girl, Eleanor flew
back to Australia, via Rome, India
and Singapore, from a holiday in Europe.
While in London she shopped for her
wedding-gown and trousseau. Marriage
will take place in April.
To the Flinders-lane firm of Paterson,
Laing and Bruce must go the credit of
being the first in this city to present Hugh
Beresford, milliner to the Queen, and his
collection of wonderful hats. Melusine,
a long, soft-haired felt that looks like
clotted cream, is the outstanding fabric
this London designer uses. Color, line
and the design of the Beresford hats are
entirely wearable and most flatteringly
feminine. There was not a hat in the
collection which struck a jarring note.
The little hat, which Hugh Beresford calls
“a little bit of nonsense,” and seen on this
page worn by Bambi Shmith, is most
charming. It is just a nosegay of red
roses and lily-of-the-valley set on a cur-
vette of black jet and with a veil of black
spotted net, floating to the shoulders.
Most of the models hug the head and
the accent is on the side trimming. Hand-
knitted black wool formed the babble-
trimming around the brim and the
Dutch bonnet crown of a white melusine
model and the soft tarn crown of a
mustard-toned creation were contrasted
by the red, yellow, green and blue chenille
spots of the finishing veil. Hats, so Hugh
Beresford says, should be worn for almost
every occasion. That is why he designed
the small chic hats for dining and the
theatre.
Attractive and soignee Mrs, Athol
Shmith, wife of the well-known photo-
grapher, posed for this picture wearing a
lovely Hugh Beresford hat. Mrs. Shmith
was formerly Pat Tuckwell, of Sydney,
where she was a violinist in the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra. When she came to
Melbourne her new friends refused to call
her Pat, and stuck to the nickname coined
for her by a Sydney reporter who was
struck by her eyes and dubbed her
Bambi, after Disney’s deer. Bambi makes
her own clothes, and is one of the best-
known figures in the fashion world.
On the first day of the hat show Rita
Findlay was there, wearing a large, up-
swept, black straw hat with her modish,
printed silk frock. Ivy Parker set off
her auburn hair with a brown straw hat,
and her white silk frock was etched in
a brown feathery design. Pam Myer,
who has just returned from Paris, de-
cided on a pale-grey suit and small match-
ing felt draped beret. Mrs. Bruce Mead
chose a pale-grey frock with white hat
and accessories, and Mrs. Margaret Saker
a black crepe jacket suit and Leghorn
hat trimmed with black velvet.
Kathleen, eldest daughter of Sir
Herbert and Lady Gepp, has been
appointed director of the Junior Red
Cross Bureau of the League of Red Cross
Societies at Geneva. The bureau co-
ordinates the activities of 33 million
children in 52 national Red Cross
Societies. News of her appointment
reached Kathleen in camp with the
Junior Red Cross at South Arm, near
Hobart, She joined the Red Cross in
1940, attached to the national publicity
section in an honorary capacity. After
four years she became social editress of
the “Age.” But Red Cross work was her
call, and she went back again in 1946.
Before going to Geneva Kathleen will do
a course of study in Red Cross adminis-
tration in the U.S.A., beginning in Wash-
ington. She hopes to see something of
J.R.C. work in Canada and Great Britain.
No stranger to those countries, she spent
some of her schooldays in New Jersey,
and she was in Geneva when Hitler in-
vaded Czechoslovakia. To Kathleen’s
credit is the J.R.C. magazine, “Junior,”
which she developed, and which was ori-
ginally printed only twice in two years.
Now it is published every second month.
Kathleen expects to* leave some time
in February.
An engagement of great interest in this
city is that of Betty, elder daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. S. H. Marroh, of Wando
Grove, East St. Kilda, and Dr. Frank
Mulcahy, youngest son of Mrs, John
Mulcahy, of Albert Park. Betty was edu-
cated at the Sacred Heart Convent,
Malvern, and graduated in Arts at Mel-
bourne Uni,, where her fiance gained his
degree. Betty recently returned from an
18 months’ visit to England and the
continent. While in London she was for
a time on the staff of the Foreign Office.
From Sydney
G.O.C. Lieut.-General Berryman gave
a threefold toast at the late-afternoon
party in his home at Victoria Barracks
last Friday. He and Mrs. Berryman and
a great gathering of military guests were
lifting a farewell glass to Colonel and
Mrs. Mann, saying “Hail and Farewell”
to Mrs. John Chapman, who came from
Washington to see one son married and
another graduate from Duntroon, and
is now going back to U.S., and her hus-
band, Major-General Chapman, who
there represents the Australian Army,
and rejoicing that Mrs. Thompson would
remain on the scene, though .her Briga-
dier husband goes far and wide on mili-
tary occasions. This was the sort of party
that Mars in a genial and domestic mood
might throw, surrounding himself with
his chieftain warriors and their wives.
Son of the house Richard Berryman was
a youthful cupbearer. Daughter Ann,
who flashed in and out in a brightly-
printed frock and gardenias in her hair,
was going off to “Faust,” her first opera.
Mrs. Berryman’s French-grey chiffons
had a Du Maurier touch in the long and.
fitting bodice, and the slightly-rounded
neck-line.
The S.U.D.S. gave their late-Sunday-
afternoon party for the Canterbury
Student Players in their own George-
street lair. The clubrooms are up a great
many stairs, but if you have practised on
the bridge pylons you’ll hardly notice
them. Mrs. Stephen Roberts, whose hus-
band is Vice-Chancellor of Sydney Uni-
versity, was the afternoon’s hostess, and
S.U.D.S. producer Sam Hughes proved a
clever ringmaster. It really was a good
party. Ngaio Marsh, the lioness of the
afternoon, purred amiably. Her silk frock
was blue in tone and flower-patterned.
Make-up expert Dundas Walker was
there, and Othello and Desdemona and
Emilia and others from the cast of Will
Shakspeare’s play. Then there were the
Ealing Studios’ Mr. Barr and artist Alan-
nah Coleman, blonde and cool-looking,
and remindful of a primrose, and flower-
painter Paul Jones. Talking Agamemnon
were Mr. Windeyer, Miss Tildesley
and Professor Kendall, who professes
Greek at Sydney University. D. D.
O’Connor, who brought the Canterbury
Pilgrims to Australia, was there with Mrs.
O’Connor. When the company wearied
of "walking and talking on the stage, it
sat and talked in the stalls of the tiny
theatre. The talk was still in full cry at
seven-thirty.
Ann Berryman, only daughter of
Lieut.-General and Mrs. Berryman, of
Victoria Barracks, is working hard at
Sydney University for her Science de-
gree. "in between she helps her mother
when her parents give their friendly
parties at the barracks. Dorothy Welding
photograph.
Opera singer Lagares deserves a special
decoration for his fortitude in keeping the
last act of “Carmen” so strong and pas-
sionate till the last note. Then Lagares,
the tension relaxed, fell fainting on the
.stage from a strained muscle. The music
of Bizet is full of the clamor of primitive
emotions. But here and there with a
clever touch spring up such woodland
notes of cool refreshment as the duet
where Jose and Carmen sing of life in
the open air, and the lovely interludes of
Micaela —rather like a patch of maiden-
hair fern by a murmuring creek. The
audience on Saturday night enjoyed it all.
As Carmen Dora Minarchi wore some
brilliantly-toned frocks. But in the last
scene, where she enters with her lover, the
great Toreador, dressed all in shimmering
white, the glitter of jewels on arms, at
throat and in her ears, she was superb.
Among graceful women in the audience
were Miss Ethel Moar, a shoulder-spray
of red roses glowing on her mist-grey
chiffons. She was with Mrs. Arthur
Whitelaw, who was attractive in black
silk crepes. In black moire, its off-the-
shoulder neckline edged with black tulle,
was regular first-nighter Mrs. Bianchi.
Dr. Santos, Minister for Brazil, was say-
ing goodbye to many friends. He goes
off to Prague to represent his country in
diplomacy there.
The New Zealand Canterbury Players
practically swam ashore on the first
lap of their pilgrimage to Australia.
They arrived on probably the wettest day
in human knowledge. They are led by
Ngaio Marsh, who is, no doubt, by now,
hot on the trail of a ne_w murder mystery.
Who Killed the Sun ? As all the world
knows Ngaio ranks among the high sister-
hood of thriller-writers —in fact, there is
somewhat a resemblance between her and
photographs of Agatha Christie. Perhaps
women writers of the roman policier
(the French is M. Poiret’s) run to type.
Ngaio is tall, lean and tweedy. Her skin,
eyes and profile can support a beret with
distinction. Her deep contralto voice is
kept on an even keel. At the Lord
Mayor and Lady Mayoress’s welcome
she was “shot” so often by the camera
and newsreel boys she must have begun
to feel like the victims in her own
tragedies.
Knight Ben and Lady Fuller came
in for half an hour before going on to
the late-afternoon greetings to the Italian
Opera Company. On a day when every-
body had that rubberised exterior, en-
trepreneur Dan O’Connor’s tailorings had
the perfect air. The Town Hall’s Frank
Crane ran him a close second,
Mr. Dundas Walker, the make-up
expert of the company, and formerly an
actor on the London stage, has the ease
and simplicity of a man who has done
his job in a big city. His idea is that
is more than skin deep. It is a
combination of something in the actor
himself living the part, and something
that the maker-up has sensed in the
character. The season started at the Con.
last Saturday.
The first one this Letter met at the
Arts Council sherry-sipping for the opera
company was Sam Hughes. Sam is a
man who mixes his culture with a dash of
laughter, and you can’t do that unless
you’re pretty matey with the arts. Sam
is producer for the S.U.D.S., and he hopes
to make “Twelfth Night,” their next
presentation, the fun and games Williarn
Shakspeare intended. Then there was
grand-opera conductor Ghione, standing
all the afternoon and lively in spite of
it. After all he stands most of his life.
A party for him should mean sitting
down. A nice throne chair on the dais
with members of the Arts Council sur-
rounding him on slightly less ornate ones
would have been impressive.
Dorothy Helmrich was a clever hostess,
and mixed the Australian and Italian
guests so that there was always someone
who spoke a little of the other’s language.
The tenors of the company were sur-
rounded all the session. Tiny flower-hat
worn by Mrs. C. R. McKerihan with her
black afternoon frock had a sort of
wistful Mimi charm. Mrs. Roland
Foster’s black bonnet tied under the chin
with tulle had vivacity. Sir Ben and Lady
Fuller, the Nevin Taits, Mary Tait, Doris
Fitton and Miss Tildesley were among
the noted.
The “Kiwis,” who have been one of
Melbourne’s brightest shows for over
two years, are due to open in Sydney
at the Empire next month. The Kiwis
were formed in 1941. They were the
original Enzed Entertainment Unit with
the historic Eighth Army in the Middle
East. General Freyberg arranged with
Divisional Headquarters in Cairo to have
this unit formed for the entertainment
of the troops. They brought their fun
and laughter and music to Alamein,
Tripoli, Benghazi, Malta, Crete, Syria,
Tunis and Gabes. Boyd Neel, who saw
them during one of their tours of Maori-
land, declared they could hold London
for two or three years, such is the polish
and verve of their shows. Their clever
producer, Terry Vaughan, is a young
kinsman of one-time constant Bulletin
writer Oliver Noel Gillespie, now one
of the high chiefs of the Maoriland Gov-
ernment Publicity Department.
Mosman branch held the first two
C.W.A. activities of the new year. On
Wednesday, January 5, for the seven-
teenth year in succession, the members
gave a picnic at the Zoo to the Far West
Children, and the lunch and tea consisted
.of every possible variety of sandwich,
500 oranges and bananas and 600
cakes. This "year 139 children came.
On the following Saturday Mosman’s
Younger Set provided a Christmas-tree
laden with presents for the 60 children at
-Keera House, the C.W.A. seaside home
at Dee Why. President Jean Hutchison
presented the Keera House committee
with a cheque for £4O, and announced
that the Younger Set had done this for
18 years. Her brother Bob took the part
of Father Christmas, and was in
much demand.


JmmL
smo» rHl
Hundreds of thousands of bottles were'
sold here prior to the war. The finest
Spa in the world, from the Mineral
Springs of Vichy, France, possesses to an
amazing degree the power of renovating
the organisms. Thousands drink it straight
in fixed quantities. Others enjoy and bene-
fit by its curative qualities when added to
Whisky, Gin, Cordials or Milk.
Obtainable at Hotels, Clubs, Licensed Grocers
and Chemists.
ICH V WATER
mm mMwim semes ermam
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILLTOP, A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY BUBBED
CIGABETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers Jor lots 20/6.
weight or over.
Write tos Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
Is Help Stive Your Money Worries
T
A personal, confidential service
is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed*
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills, coma fat
and talk it over*
RURAL BANK
Head Office t Martin Place, Sydney*
The WILD CAT
COLUMN.
Australian Provincial Assurance
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Income. Claims. Expenses,* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1941.. 375,083 340,345 108,125 2,534,212
1942.. 375,330 337,876 98,911 2,472,755
1943.. 388,213 277,228 99,164 11,821 2,484,576
1944.. 406,068 242,227 99,221 64,620 2,549,196
1945.. 440,732 241,563 121,407 77,762 2,626,958
1946.. 475,014 230,846 139,306 104,862 2,731,820
Surplus from revalued Government 1
securities, £60,618 .. ~ }■ 2,806,488
Other additions to reserves, £14,000 J
1947.. 482,267 192,959 116,480 172,828 2,979,266
Added to reserves, £12,800 .. 2,992,066
1948. . 509,258 193,305 96,112 201,841 3,193,907
* Expenses include dividends to shareholders: 1937-
40, £4500; 1941, £9OOO ; 1942, £4500; 1943-
46, £9000; 1947, £13,500; 1948, £lB,OOO.
The A.P.A., which writes ordinary and
accident business in Australia and New"
Zealand, continues to make steady pro-
gress. Over 73 p.c. of the life premiums
are gathered in the Commonwealth and
the balance in the Dominion. Consider-
ing the difficulties inherited by the present
management and those which war and
post-war developments imposed upon life
offices—-cheap money, high taxation and
a restricted field of investment are an
unholy trinity—the co. has put up a
creditable performance. Though it took
time, the business has been set on a sound
financial footing, and policyholders,
whose interests have been thrust into the
foreground, are receiving regular and
satisfactory bonuses, while moderate divs.
have been paid to shareholders.
Since the accounts now separate life
from other business, both policyholders
and shareholders can see more clearly
where they stand. In the life section
£1,080,070 (down £221,687) of new busi-
ness was put on the books last term. But
the average per policy was £496 (up £152)
and the average premium per cent, a
little lower at £3 Bs. 9d., which means
that larger amounts of more solid,
long-term business were written. Pre-
mium income (£259,814) increased by
£20,421, and net interest, etc. (£91,022),
by £2178, making the improvement in
total income (£450,830) £22,599. After
paying all legitimate claims .(£178,914)
and exes. (£78,568), the excess of income
over outgo was £193,354 (up £31,604).
Another pleasing feature was the tight
hold kept upon exes, (down £7684). De-
spite expansion of the business, they
were reduced to 21.8 p.c. of net premiums
as against 25.4 p.c. for the previous term.
After allowing £4640 for depreciation
and adding £12,800 to reserves for taxa-
tion and new business expansion, the
surplus (excess of life fund over policy
liabilities) available for distribution was
£9033 stronger at £63,118, which was
dealt with in this way;
„ , 1947. 1948.
Surplus £54,085 £63,118
Bonuses policyholders .. 44,407 46,955
Investment reserve .. 10,000
To p. and 1. account .. 9,678 ejl63
Bonuses to policyholders were maintained
at the same scale as for the previous
year. The £lO,OOO earmarked as a pro-
perty and investment reserve belongs to
policyholders—and so does £26,800 of
other reserves, which also support and
assist the £2,958,727 of life funds. Only
£6163 (down £3515), or 9.7 p.c, of the
surplus (17.9 p.c. in the previous term),
was transferred to shareholders’ account.
In the life section the co. thus earned
over £9 for policyholders for every pound
taken by shareholders, who, under recent
legislation, are entitled to a maximum 25
p.c. of the surplus.
Including £2848 of sundry income, the
net effective rate of interest earned on
mean assurance funds was 3.22 p.c. as
against 3.34 p.c. for the previous term —
a common experience. The co. values its
policy liabilities on a 2| p.c. net premium
basis, and is considering lowering the rate
to 2\ p.c., thus further strengthening the
protection for policyholders.
In the general and accident section the
surplus was £24,387 (down £191). That
was after adding £2lOO to reserves for
unexpired risks and allowing £6744 for
depreciation. With £6163 from the life
department and £18,912 brought forward,
total available for shareholders was
£49,462, of which £30,000 was sent to
general reserves and a 5 p.c. div. (3| p.c.
in the previous year) took £lB,OOO. Re-
serves in this section total £198,380, of
which £21,300 is for unexpired risks and
£30,000 tax contingencies, which might
or might not occur.
Here is an over-all view of the financial
structure:
1939. 1946. 1947. 1948.
£ £ £ £
Public sec. 1,273,452 1,357,830 1,491,110 1,543,610
Mortgages.. 517,449 404,636 378,687 369,808
Loans on
policies, etc. 119,389 61,648 55,627 59,207
Book debts,
cash, etc. 97,365 171,278 208,438 155,035
Equipment. 16,088 3,585 2,825 4,450
Properties.. 814,462 757,040 740,165 737,558
Shares .. 885,321 472,001 578,689 815,645
Total .. 3,223,526 3,228,018 3,465,541 3,685,313
Creditors ~ 151,218 119,621 112,775 113,406
Nettangibles 3,072,308 3,108,397 3,352,766 3,571,907
Assur. fund* 2,629,684 2,647,964 2,799,736 2,980,027
Paid capital 360,000 360,000 360,000 360,000
* Includes reserves for unexpired risks: 1939,
£15,000; 1946, £18,500; 1947, £19,200; 1948.
£21,300. '
For the most part, assets are known to
be well worth their book-value. To-help
soften the blow from the low return on
Government paper attention is now being
turned to industrial and other securities.
Of the £815,645 (up £236,966) of share-
holdings, only £123,197 is in associated
and controlled cos., the balance being
mainly ord. shares (at cost).
Henry Jones Co-operative, Ltd.
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.*
£, £> £,
1941.. 288,408 10 p.c. = 143,017 145,391 1,530,119
Reduced intangibles, £3l .. .. 1,530,150
1942.. 258,465 10 p.c. = 143,017 115,448 1,645,598
1943.. 279,880 10 „ „ 143,017 136,863 1,782,461
1944.. 237,180 10 „ „ 143,017 94,163 1,876,624
1945.. 330,575 10 „ „ 144,742 186,833 2,062,457
1946.. 215,952 10 „ „ 145,317 70,635 2,133,092
*947.. 827 ’ 886 10 » .. 145,317 182,569 2,315,661
1948.. 333,536 10 „ „ 150,000 183,536 2,499,197
* After deducting book-value of goodwill (now
£50,935).
Popularity of the scrip—the market has
always had a high opinion of it —in this
big jam-making and fruit-canning and
-preserving organisation rests upon the
co.’s performance as a dividend-payer,
and upon its strength, financial and other-
wise. Shareholders have never failed to
receive an annual distribution since 1909,
when the co. was formed. For the first
20 years the rate averaged 10.8 p.c.,
sweetened with £455,492 of bonus scrip in
1927, followed by an average of 7,5 p.c.
during the next half-dozen difficult slump
years, and then an average of 10.1 p.c. for
the 13 years to the close of last accounts.
The £1,500,000 of paid capital was then
entrenched behind £2,499,197 of visible
reserves. Of the 23 operating units in the
group, 11 are in Australia and the
balance, including four merchandising
offshoots, in S. Africa, New Zealand and
Britain.
It was a bigger output of jams and
canned fruits in Australia, combined with
a high level of exports, that put the lift
in last year’s net earnings. Costs were
bumped up by recurrent wage-lifts, the
40-hour week and higher prices for tin-
plate and other materials. Still, after
deducting outside interests (£3744), profit/
on Australian account was £68,746
stronger:
Net income— 1945. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Australian .. £230,497 £137,425 £164,524 £233,270
Other sources 89,179 85,785 147,907 95,598
Total .. £319,676 £223,210 £312,431 £328,868
Despite help from the new factory at
Port Elizabeth (S. Africa), which came
into operation early in the term, there
was a contraction of £52,309 in the de-
clared net return from outside the Com-
monwealths Including an unexplained
addition to reserves of £4668 net, com-
bined net earnings from all sources were
£5650 better at £333,536, or 22.2 p.c. on
capital as against 22.5, 14.8, 22.7, 16.3,
19.2 and 17.7 p.c. back to 1942. The
cautious board kept the div. at 10 p.c.,
leaving more than was distributed to put
on the shelf.
As for the current term, the chairman
says there are positive indications that
increased production of jam in Australia
will cause a reduction of selling prices in
both home and export markets, and that
reduced earnings can also be expected
from the eight factories in S. Africa and
New Zealand. But how far over-all net
earnings will be affected is difficult to
say. The co.’s other commodities, chiefly
canned fruits and tomato products, are
not imperilled by either overproduction
or unprofitable prices.
Capital Issues Control, whose know-
ledge of the most efficient way to handle
the co.’s finances can at best be second-
hand and superficial, refused to authorise
a new cash issue of 300,000 £1 shares, one
for five. The chairman, who enjoys a
wide reputation as an able and careful
financier and who knows the co.’s
problems at first-hand, and has done so
from the start, says there could be no
doubt about the need for fresh capital.
So the authorities are to be asked to re-
consider their decision. The co. buys the
bulk of its fruit over a period of about a
month, during which most of the stock
for the year is manufactured. This calls
for very large expenditure in connection
with sugar, tinplate and wages as well as
fruit. Hence the need for a substantial
holding of cash, etc.
When the books closed the co. was
carrying an additional £437,290 of stocks,
an extra £62,178 of book-debts, and
£101,975 had been added to plant and
£70,866 to freeholds during the year: *
Henry Jones and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital .. £1,430,173 £1,453,173 £1,500,000
Outside interests* 79,477 71,344 75,010
Creditors, etc. ~ 419,858 654,104 856,494
Tax reserve, etc... 159,478 422,263 415,967
Suspense account.. 7,691 ■ — -
Freeholds, etc. .. 697,928 970,172 1,041,088
Plant, etc. .. 279,590 514,003 615,978
Stocks .. .. 872,099 1,522,983 1,960,273
Debtors .. .. 785,068 1,229,682 1,291,860
Shares .. .. 101,245 123,555 126,224
Cash, etc 745,328 655,190 417,128
Suspense account.. 9,948 6,667
Goodwill, etc. .. 62,542 50,935 61,464
* Including proportion of reserves.
To meet the outlay £202,390 was added
to the amount coming to sundry creditors,
and cash, etc., was drawn upon for
£238,062. Plans for the new factory at
Welshpool (W.A.) are complete; but
when it will be erected and in production
depends partly on the decision of Capital
Issues Control.
At 745. (82s. a year ago) the pound
shares return 2.7 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div.
basis. The investor at 745. who looks for
3.5 p.c. on his money counts on a 13 p.c.
distribution, or a one-for-five new issue at
a premium of 30s. and a 12i p.c. dis-
tribution. Net tangible cover at end
October last was 535. 4d.
Myer Emporium, Ltd. (Melb.)
/ Dividends To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, t serves, serves.
& £ £ £
’41.. 272,868 9 p.c. 9 p.c. 220,210 1
Written off freehold, £20,000 f 12,658 779,683
To staff fund, £20,000 ..J
’42.. 193,525 9 p.c. 7ip.c.194,335 778,873
’43.. 189,564 9 „ TJ „ 194,335 774,102
’44.. 190,762 9 „ 7$ „ 194,335 770,529
’45.. 241,230 9 „ 8* „ 211,585 29,645 800,174
’46.. 259,449 9 „ 9 „ 220,211 39,238 889,412
’47.. 274,094 9 „ 9 „ 220,211 53,883 893,295
From tax reserve, £50,000 .. .. 943,295
’48.. 320,320 9 p.c. 10 p.c. 237,460 82,860 1,026,155
(Depreciation: 1944, £115,000; 1945, £30,000;
1946, £40,000.)
t Including employees’ shares (6 p.c.).
It was a bumper year for retailers; and
this is the biggest department store
organisation in the Commonwealth. The
parent’s turnover (figure not stated) in-
creased by over £2,000,000, reaching a
record level, due largely to , the still all-
too-familiar rise in prices. The bigger
turnover more than offset heavier operat-
ing exes, (up £404,000) and a contraction
in gross margins—now under 24 p.c., a
commendably low figure because it means
comparatively cheap service to the public.
The three subsidiaries —Myer Emporium
(S. Aust.), Myer Woollen Mills (Ballarat)
and Economic Cash Buying Co., which
looks after short-term credit for the
parent’s customers —enjoyed a similar ex-
perience.
After allowing £121,107 (up £23,018)
for depreciation, the parent’s own trading
profit was £729,593 (up £94,923) and
£40,727 (up £1303) was received in divs.,
making total profit before taxation
£770,320 (up £96,226):
1946. 1947. 1948.
Profit before tax .. £609,449 £674,094 £770,320
Allowance for tax .. 350,000 400,000 450,000
Profit for shareholders 259,449 274,094 320,320
Since the allowance for taxation was
£50,000 heavier, the net result benefited
by £46,226, reaching £320,320. That was
after transferring £50,000 overprovided
for taxation in 1947 (due to abolition of
War-time Co. Tax) direct to reserves.
The £320,320 covered pref. and staff-
partnership divs. (together £64,960) and
14.8 p.c, on the £1,725,000 of ord. capital,
compared with 12.1, 11.2, 10.2, 7.3, 7.2
and 7.4 p.c. back to 1942. A point was
added to the div., making it 10 p.c.,
highest since 1929.
After deducting outside shareholders’
interests and allowing for depreciation,
taxation, etc., the year’s combined net
earnings of parent and subsidiaries was
£389,127 (up £67,258). That was enough
to pay the parent’s pref. and staff divs.
and show 18.8 p.c. on its ord. capital.
So the position was more comfortable
than the parents’ figures alone disclosed.
To help finance the bigger trading,
instal 14 new escalators —thus quickening
the transport of customers through the
store —and modernise the layout of de-
partments, the co. asked for and received
authority to raise £500,000 on mortgage.
Of this amount £250,000 had been bor-
rowed when the books closed. The rate
of interest is not stated, but the money
should prove very helpful to the ords.
Here are balance-sheet figures;
V 1941, 1947. 1948.
Capital .. .. £2,479,950 £2,479,950 £2,479,950
Mortgages .. 408,000 105,000 355,000
Creditors . . . . 1,422,929 1,639,798 1,652,880
Tax reserve . . 160,000 423,117 456,519
Staff fund . , 62,823 62,823
Freeholds, etc. .. 2,084,560 1,798,978 1,808,900
Plant, etc. . . 21,850 255,670 388,832
Shares . . . . 441,309 507,365 502,898
Stocks .. .. 1,818,063 2,465,564 2,548,498
Debtors .. . . 846,878 650,635 886,046
Cash, etc... ~ 93,614 29,371 18,907
The £250,000 of fresh mortgage
money, together with an extra £13,082
from sundry creditors and the year’s
surplus earnings, etc., went mainly
into stocks (up £82,934), plant, etc. (up
£133,262) and debtors’ balances (up
£234,411), Excluding shareholdings,
current assets exceeded current liabilities
by £1,160,475 (up £244,143) when the
books closed.
Turnover has kept on climbing since
the close of accounts, but at a slower
rate than last year. Some recent buying
has been in anticipation of price rises
to come, following abolition of subsidies
on wool and cotton. Overall there are
indications that the swing from a sellers’
to a buyers’ market is beginning to
develop. However, another good season,
fat prices for exports and high level of
employment augur well for trade gener-
ally. Still, under pressure of rising costs
consumer resistance is growing, and,
under existing conditions, retail profit has
become almost entirely a function of
turnover. Hence the fear that the recent
7| p.c. cut in mark-up on softgoods de-
creed by officialdom will render some lines
unprofitable, and that retailers will refuse
to stock them. This is an official encour-
agement to the blackmarket, and there-
fore wrong Government policy. Every-
where the spectre at the feast is rising
costs. When employment is at the full
wage-lifts and shorter hours simply add
to prices and retard output, thus creat-
ing dangerous inflationary pressure.
At 495. the ords. return 4.1 p.c. on a
10 p.c. div, basis. The prefs. at 445. 3d.
also yield 4.1 p.c. Net tangible cover
(consolidated figures) is £6 Is. lOd. prefs.
and 375. 6d, ords.
Bulolo Gold Dredging, Ltd.
This co. (paid capital $5,000,000 in $5
shares, Canadian) got away to a good
start in the rehabilitation race. Seven
of its eight dredges at Bulolo (New
Guinea) are now in operation—one set up
since the close of accounts, and the other


*VYUT
to
A,
N&
TH t
Who will protect
their interests?
Capable administration alone can carry out your wishes.
That is why your executor or trustee must possess highly
specialised knowledge, extensive experience, the ability o
make wise decisions, ample time, and solid financial bucking.
Every beneficiary deserves the careful and unbroken
administration that Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
devotes to each estate. Write for a complimentary copy or
"Hands That Never Leave the Wheel.’ This booklet fully
explains the Compajny s many services.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black
Eric Priestley Lee _ . *
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LI
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE
M I T E D
© AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: BU 5901
Box 543, G.P.O., Sydney
a.as
LONDON and
BIRMINGHAM
BRITISH INDUSTRIES FAIR
advt
Every year, from over 100 countries, trade
buyers gather at the British Industries Fair.
The Chamber of Commerce in Birmingham,
and manufacturers from every part of Britain, join with
the Government of the United Kingdom to welcome them.
At B I F 1949, from 2-13 May, 3000 exhibitors will display
the latest developments in thirty groups of allied trades.
The leading men of international commerce are invited to
attend the world’s greatest assembly of national products.
2-13 MAY 1949
TRADE BUYERS — PLAN YOUR VISIT NOW
Information about exhibitors, special displays and facilities at
the Fair can be obtained from the United Kingdom Trade
Commissioner at Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne or Brisbane;
or the Imperial Trade Correspondent at Adelaide or Perth.
: :".
\n
&
i <:^m
m
to
(\YW
tot^ oVX^
ov sVxoW
. . . whether
you feel like cool, long drinks
or short, sharp appetisers,
GILBEY’S is the gin. Always
pack a Boule of Gilbey’s in the ice box
when you go out for the day and be sure
to keep one handy at home for friends
who ‘ drop-in.’
Don’t say Gin —say
ILBEYS
G/6070
Public Notices.
I, ELIAS KAIRALLAH, of Lebanese
nationality, bom at Monsif, Lebanon, and
resident 22 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 85 Regent Street, Redfern, intend
to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act, 1920-1946. f
I, SIMON PETER SANKO, of Yugoslav
nationality, bom at Godgora, Dalmacija,
Yugoslavia, and resident 22 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at Orchard Street,
Warriewood, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act,
1920-1916.
I, DIMITRIE F. KOLEFF, of Bulgarian
nationality, bom at Strashilovo, Bulgaria,
and resident 10 years in Australia, now
residing at 21 Lamette Street, Chatswood,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act, 1920-1916.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys', 122 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
'\
/
ft
l V***
V* 01 V 1 '"
9.
Whether you are thinking
of buying a washer —or practic*
ally any major domestic applianco
for that matter —you must know before-
hand what is UNDERNEATH the porcelain
enamel. If you receive the assurance that the appliance is
built with COMROL STEEL ... you can buy
S M
M P ►
a
:
with absolute confidence. An ap-
pliance constructed from COMROL
Sheet will stand up to everything
the years will bring. It’s the steel
that gives stamina.
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING
MILLS PTY. LTD.
Head Office and Works:
Port Kembla, N.S.W.
STEEL SHEETS FOR INDUSTRY
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED - GENERAL SALES AGENTS;
SYDNEY - 33 Macfluarie Place. MELBOURNE: 20 Queen Street. ADELAIDE.
13 Grenfell Street? BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen Street. FREMANTLE: Corner of
Short and PakeJham Streets. WELLINGTON, N.Z.: John Lysaght's Bristol Wort,
Limited. ikmoa-sb
TECHNICAL EDUCATION
BY CORRESPONDENCE
THE TECHNICAL EDUCATION DEPARTMENT
NEW SOUTH WALES,
Offers through the
SYDNEY TECHNICAL COLLEGE
the means of ensuring your future by providing you with sound
and modern training in a wide range of subjects by correspondence
instruction.
PROMOTION AND SUCCESS
depend upon your ability to keep in touch with up-to-date methods
and modern trends. Home-study courses will open up new interests
and enthusiasms as well as lead to promotion and better pay.
Any person other than those of school age who, by reason of
remote place of residence, hours of employment or physical
disability, cannot attend Technical College Classes, may apply for
enrolment in any one or more of the following courses:
ART—Dressmakers’ Art, Figure Drawing,
Freehand Drawing, Lettering, Short Dis-
play Card Writing, Object (Still Life)
Drawing, Ticket Writing.
COMMERCE —Bookkeeping, Commercial
Principles, Accountancy, Auditing, Com-
mercial Law, Income Tax Law and Prac-
tice, Banking, Finance and Foreign
Exchange, Cost Accountancy, Company
Secretarial Practice, Economics, Bankers’
Institute, Commercial Correspondence,
Shorthand, Typewriting.
EOCAIi GOVERNMENT—LocaI Gov-
ernment (Town and Shire) Clerks’ Cer-
tificate.
EEECTRlCAXr—Electrical Trades (for
apprentices and journeymen).
ENGINEERING —Fitting and Machin-
ing, Automotive Mechanics, Diesel Engine
Operation, Motor Maintenance (for owners
and drivers of motor vehicles), Steam
Engine Driving, Boiler Attendants, Gas
Engineering, Refrigeration.
MARINE ENGINEERING lat or
2nd Class Marine Engineer’s Certificate,
Part A.
HOME HANDICRAFTS —Dressmaking,
Milfinery, Dressmakers’ and Milliners’'
Art.
PREPARATORY English and
Mathematics (approximately from Ist
year to Leaving Certificate standard),
French, Mechanics, Modem History, Geo-
graphy (approximately from Intermediate
Certificate to Leaving Certificate standard).
BUILDING Building Construction,
Carpentry and Joinery (Theory, Calcula-
tions and Drawing).
PRINTING—-Composing, Printers’ Eng-
lish and Arithmetic, Linotype _ Operation,
Bookbinding, Letterpress Machining.
PUBLIC EXAMINATIONS Inter-
mediate Certificate (see Secondary),
Nurses’ Entrance, Police Entrance, Tele-
phonists’ and Telegraph Messengers’ En-
trance, Special Entrance (Sydney Tech-
nical College), Qualifying Examination
(N.S.W. Technical University and Tech-
nical College Diploma Courses).
PUBLIC HEALTH—HeaIth Inspection,
Meat Inspection.
RURAL—Agriculture, Care of Animals,
Pig Raising, Poultry Farming, Sheep and
Woolclassing, Dairy Technology, Bee
Keeping, Farm Mechanics (including
Farm Machinery, Farm Science and Farm
Arithmetic), Farm Management and Farm
Economics, Station Bookkeeping.
SANITATION —House Drainage, Sani-
tary Engineering, Sewer Plumbing, Water
Plumbing.
SECONDARY —Art, Business Principles
and Bookkeeping, English, French,
General Mathematics, Geography, His-
tory, Latin, Mathematics I (Arithmetic
and Algebra), Mathematics II (Geometry
and Trigonometry), Technical Drawing.
(All from First Year to Intermediate
Certificate standard.)
Special lectures and practical demonstration sessions at Sydney
Technical College are arranged every year for correspondence
students enrolled in many of the above courses.
IF YOU CANNOT ATTEND A TECHNICAL COLLEGE,
STUDY BY CORRESPONDENCE
FEES
Basic Scale 25/- per single subject. Course rates where applicable. Complete
schedule of fees available upon application. Half fees to students under 21 years
and receiving less than 30/- weekly.
A. Denning, Superintendent of Technical Colleges.
MAIL COUPON FOR SYLLABUS
TO: The Officer in Charge, Correspondence Teaching Division,' Sydney Technical
College, 45-47 Broadway, Sydney.
Please send me, without obligation, full details of, the *
, Correspondence Course.
NAME (in BLOCK LETTERS)
ADDRESS
is scheduled to begin during the
first half of 1949.
For the year to May 31,
1948, two machines worked con-
tinuously, and four started in at
various dates from July, 1947,
to April, 1948. A total of
7,855,000 c.y. gravel was handled
for 75,2080 z. fine gold and
35,4210 z. silver, the lot worth
$2,614,638, or an average of
33.28 cents a yard. Operating
costs were $699,872 (8.91 cents
a yard), royalties and taxes
$178,886 (2.27 cents a yard) and
general exes. $58,117 (0.74 cents
a yard). That left a profit of
$1,677,763 or $1,677 a share
(33.5 p.c.), from which a div. of
a dollar a share was paid in
December, less Canadian
absentee tax of 15 p.c. to Aus-
tralian shareholders. The tax re-
duces the div. from 20 p.c. to
17 p.c. Last previous payment
was $1.5 a share at end 1941.
Finances are flush. Current
assets totalled $5,883,092, of
which $3,248,556 was a war-
damage claim, since paid in full.
Current liabilities amounted to
$557,045. Fixed assets appeared
at $12,189,299, and deferred
charges at $119,716. The board
aims to build up an amortisation
reserve (now $4,094,858) equal
to paid capital during the operat-
ing life of the property.
Owing to the rise in labor and
other costs, gravel reserves have
been recalculated. At end May
last they were put at 111,797,000
c.y. (down 16,203,000 c.y.)
dredgeable, and 13,500,000 c.y.
(down 7,500,000 c.y.) to be
handled later on with hydraulic
equipment. Testing of two re-
cently acquired areas proved dis-
appointing, and the board con-
siders the chanfce of finding
further worth-while ground slim.
During the current term bigger
yardage should help to swell
revenue and reduce costs, which
were bumped up by 21 p.c. fol-
lowing wage-lifts and introduc-
tion of the 40-hour week m
March, 1948. There is nothing
in sight to suggest an early lift
in the world price of gold, in
December seven dredges turned
over 594,604 c.y. for 42200 z. fine
gold.
On Sydney ’Change buyers
offer £6 ss. and sellers ask £7 for
the $5 shares.
Gordon Gold and Gold Bor-
ing and Prospecting, two Mel-
bourne concerns, have taken a
£90,000 option, till October,
1950, from Mary and Philip
Ward over the Blue Moon gold-
mine (Tennant Creek), which is
to be floated into a separate co.
with 250,000 shares of 2s. each.
Of these, Gordon’s shareholders
are to be offered 100,000, one-
for-two, and G.B.P. s a like
number, one-for-one. The bal-
ance, together with any shares
not applied for, is to be taken
by L. Rubinstein, who has
underwritten the whole issue. Of
the purchase money £5OOO has
been paid, £25,000, less pay-
ments from crushings and sands,
is due on exercise of option, and
the remaining £60,000 is to come
from 10 p.c. of gold won.
During the option period two-
thirds of gross proceeds from
crushings and half those from
the sands are to be applied to-
ward satisfaction of the pur-
chase price. The new Blue
Moon co. is to work the
property in partnership with the
other two cos., which are also
interested in the Skipper mine.
Since discovery in 1935, Blue
Moon treated 3288 tons for
12,0740 z. gold over the plates.
Application for the rights close
January 20. Issue of the pros-
pectus is due any day now.


New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
Thia latest invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BAKEERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 25U), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
iiiibs
J
fsd
The Toast of
Connoisseurs!
4*
asking f° r
Keep ° n
brandy
fd
BWi|l&
!2»
Sores caused by
chafing napkins
are soon healed by Cuticura
Ointment. Stops itching
and irritation and assures
undisturbed sleep. Anti-
septic , Cuticura cannot
harm baby’s tender' skin.
One of the famous trio—
Cuticura Ointment, Snap
and Talcum Powder.
CH&*»
FRENCH
ICorn Cure
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
[Anthony Horderns’l
kuv m
SANDERS
Correspondence. Invoice s
statements, etc.. filed in the
"Sanders" can be securely
bound and converted into a
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —o»
any other period.
Prices «nd Cttf
Cher Information
upon
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agentt—
SYDNEY . v • W. O. Penfold * Co. Ptj. Ltd.
MELBOURNE . . Norman Bro>. Ptj. Ltd
dO£L4U>E < e . Vor don * Boat Ltd
SUNDRY SHOWS
Canterbury Pilgrims.
Ngaio Marsh’s Canterbury
Players opened with “Othello”
at Sydney Conservatorium. The
theatrical trappings were striking
and ingenious: colorful cos-
tumes; swords that flashed like
authentic steel and seemed un-
likely to bend in any histrionic
emergency; chaste white
columns and rich satin hangings
and, in the Cyprus scenes, an
azure and luminous backdrop
which very effectively suggested
the horizon and the sea and
which was also artistically satis-
fying.
Paul Molineaux, as Othello,
has a beautifully musical
voice which he uses effec-
tively in the opening scene and
a statuesque figure which is en-
hanced by a green-and-white
costume as he confronts Desde-
mona’s grief-stricken father, the
Duke and the assembled not-
ables of Venice. In this scene
and in scenes where he has noth-
ing more to do than to stand
still and play, as it were, with
his voice, he has the bearing of
a prince of Mecca, and is twice
as eloquent. But he fails to
maintain his gait; or, rather, his
voice rolls altogether too evenly
for the dramatic heights and
depths of the part, and, stripped
of the green-and-white mantle,
he is a much less impressive
figure, stooping a little and, at
times, appearing less like a great
warrior melting into emotion
than as a simple coffee-colored
and uxorious husband.
The line of division between
tragedies of the scale of
“Othello” and melodrama is so
fine that it demands the greatest
skill from an actor; it is to
Molineaux’s credit that he never*
slipped into incongruity, but he
rarely, if ever, achieved the real
dramatic thunder. In the final
scene he made amends, and
stabbed himself with satisfying
violence.
Brigid Lenehan, as Desde-
mona, was fair-haired, pretty
and mildly competent. In the
“Willow Song” scene she failed
to capture the pathos of song or
mood, although she sang very
prettily.
Alan de Malmanche’s lago
was a lusty, blustering fellow,
rather on the lines of a villain
of melodrama, without any sug-
gestion of that characteristic of
all Shakspearian villains a
secret and almost naive vanity.
The rest of the cast were on a
general level of high compe-
tence. A summary, as it were,
of the entire production. The
players lacked the experience to
give Othello, Desdemona and
lago full dramatic content, but
skilful production and enthusi-
asm raised the standard far
above what one is accustomed
to expect from student produc-
tions.
Theatre in 1949.
McMaster’s Stratford - on -
Avon Players, now rehearsing
to open at Melbourne Princess
in a fortnight’s time, intend
later to stage a season in Syd-
ney. In their repertoire are
“Othello.” “Hamlet,” “The Tam-
ing of the Shrew,” “The Mer-
chant of Venice,” “Romeo and
Juliet,” “CEdipus Rex,” “Oliver
Twist” and “Trilby.”
Doris Fitton’s Independent
Theatre at North Sydney will
continue to present Shak-
spearean plays one night a week
this year, following “Measure
for Measure” with “The Merry
Wives of Windsor.” On Satur-
day “Rusty Bugles” was blown
for the last time ; and tomorrow
night (Thursday, January 20) the
musical play “The Melody That
Got Lost,” by Danish play-
wright Kjeld Abeil, will open,
playing three nights a week for
an indefinite period.
After this comes “The Harp
in the South,” Ruth Park's
“Herald” prize-winning novel,
adapted for the stage by the
author and Leslie Rees.
The Independent’s plans,
beyond this play, are indefinite.
Doris Fitton hopes, among other
things, to have a season of ballet,
and possibly opera.
The news for 1949 from
May Hollinworth’s Metropolitan
Players is that they are moving
from Reiby - place to St.
Lawrence’s Hall in Pitt-street,
not far from Central Station—a
building that will seat 200—and
that they are going on a tour of
N. S. Wales and Queensland.
The tour opens at Taree on
February 14; then the Metro-
politans go to Coffs Harbor,
Grafton, Casino, Lism o r e,
Kyogle, Brisbane (where they
will play four nights),
Toowoomba, Warwick, Stan-
thorpe, Tenterfield, Glen limes,
Inverell, then back to Armidale,
Tamworth, Muswellbrook and
Cessnock. The tour will be
arranged by Regal Produc-
tions (under the manager-
ship of John Clugston), the
organisation which has taken
the Bodenwieser Ballet and other
companies up north and out
west. Regal intends to make a
habit of this admirable practice,
sending good Sydney companies
around the country three or four
times a year.
The Metropolitans will do a
programme of three plays: “The
Rivals,” Priestley’s “Laburnum
Grove” and for school
matinees—“Twelfth Night.” The
players going on tour are
Minnie Love, Lynn Murphy,
Rosemary Miller, Mavis Paton,
James Meagher, David Nettheim,
Richard Meikle, Robin Lovejoy
and Arthur Best.
The group will make its debut
at St. Lawrence’s Hall with
Goethe’s “Faust” —an ambitious
project May Hollinworth has
long contemplated, but has been
unable to put into effect for lack
of the rather elaborate stage
necessary to do the play justice.
This will be followed by a stage
adaptation of “Don Quixote”
and by “Julius Caesar.”
The Minerva hopes to follow
the current productions, “The
Streets of London” and the
Barrie fantasy “A Kiss for
Cinderella,” with Aldous
Huxley’s “The Giaconda Smile.”
Besides “Annie Get Your
Gun” at Sydney Royal and the
Grand Opera Company, which
will continue at the Tivoli until
the middle of next month, J. C.
Williamson’s will have “The
Kiwis” in Sydney (at the Empire
Theatre) commencing on Feb-
ruary 2.
The imported cast of
“Oklahoma” will arrive in Mel-
bourne this month. Australian
additions are now being selected.
Oklahoma” will be followed
by “Song of Norway” and
“Brigadoon,” and the Taits also
intend to produce “Bom Yester-
day,” “Fly Away Peter”* and
“Edward My Son.”
Between the Thunder.
For the opening of “Carmen”
at the Tivoli, Sydney turned on
a prologue of a weird green sky
filled with surging masses of sea-
weed, out of which came
thunder, lightning and a wind
of 75 m.p.h. Rafael Lagares,
some hours later, supplied the
appropriate finale by collapsing
in agony with a cramp of the
stomach after he had stabbed
the faithless Carmen —an acci-
dent recalling Olivier’s injuring
his leg at the end of “Richard
the Third,”
Between those two thunderous
occasions, the opera itself was
tempestuous enough to satisfy
all reasonable demands. True,
there were faults. The small
boys in the first act were too
solemn and respectable, the pro-
cession of bullfighters in the last
act ludicrous ; the garish costum-
ing in the tavern scene should
have been toned down to make a
more striking contrast with the
magnificent red-and-gold torea-
dor’s costume; and Dora
Minarchi’s Carmen, though
vivacious, lacked suppleness and
flame—her hands hardly ever
left her hips.
But the settings were splendid,
and there was always something
stormy going on. Rina Mariosa,
playing the village maiden who,
like Goethe’s Marguerite, Giselle
of the ballet and (as she is
usually and wrongly portrayed)
Ophelia, was born to be be-
trayed, put so much feeling into
the role that she scored one of
the night’s biggest rounds of ap-
plause. Rafael Lagares excelled
himself as Don Jose, singing and
acting with such passion in the
last act that he had every reason
to collapse at the end of it.
Ferdinand© li Donni played
a convincing Escamillo, restrain-
ing his singing to the require-
ments of his confident interpre-
tation ; and Enzo Titta’s smug-
gler was a most engagingly
humorous scoundrel. The
thunder of “Carmen” comes
from a genuine drama of the
passions, captivatingly matched
in its music; and it would be a
cold heart that could not respond
to this company’s performance
of it.
"Born Yesterday."
This slice off American civil-
isation by Garson Kanin, now
being served by an extremely
competent staff of waiters at
Melbourne Comedy, lacks pene-
tration and ends up by being
moralistic and sentimental in
terms of an “Argus” leader, but
it is an able and very amusing
piece of reporting.
Everybody in the play, from
the junk-merchant who can’t
read but makes a fortune by
buying scrap out of backyards,
the tart who shares his fortune
and his affections, and the in-
effectual young man who awakes
her social conscience and gets her
to doublecross her lover to the
crook lawyer and the Senator
who has his palm greased, could
have been as well placed in
almost any city as in the most
luxurious suite in the most
luxurious hotel in Washington,
.c.
Hartley Power plays the go-
getting junk-man to the life, June
Clyde supplies an amiably idiotic
caricature of his mistress, Lloyd
Lamble imports an element of
comic pathos into the part of the
crook lawyer, and the Senator
of Reginald News on is typical
of the seamy side of politics.
"Aquacades."
Dictionaries having been
searched without avail, we must
confess some vagueness as to
what should constitute an
“Aquacade.” However, the en-
tertainment thus labelled and
presented at North Sydney
Olympic Swimming Pool con-
sisted of an f.a.q. vaudeville
show held outdoors and gar-
nished with extras of plain,
fancy and comic high-diving, an
odd Neptune or two, spear-
fishermen, a vocalist literally
paddling his own canoe and
sundry other aquatic byplay;
the chorus-girls were swimming
instead of dancing, but did so
with equal precision. Taken all
round, a better-than-passable
line of entertainment.
The Olympic Pool makes a
splendid stage - setting on a
grandiose scale framed by
colossal representations of the
traditional masks of tragedy and
comedy. On one wing the Har-
bor Bridge; one pylon tower-
ing the pool into insignificance
and the steel fabric arching and
curving away skyward, appear-
ing to vanish as it reaches its
apex; nothing really tragic
about the bridge but its rather
grim beauty suggestive of the
more serious side of life. At the
other end of the stage, endea-
voring to tower but still attain-
ing only a tallish worm’s-eye
view of the bridge, the flash,
glittering, tinselled grin of the
entrance to Luna Park: comedy
in cardboard.
The stage-setting is grand, but
the acoustics are ghastly. The
experts who extol the virtues of
the overhead - railway mon-
strosity being erected at Circu-
lar Quay should be each sen-
tenced to one night of comper-
ing the Aquacades show.
Tragedy roared and rumbled its
trains and trams; comedy clat-
tered and rattled its big-dipper ;
battling the two, compere Clark
McKay and other vocalists
earned everyone’s sympathy.
At the Talkies.
Spring in Park Lane
(Athenaeum, Melb.). In grand-
mother’s day millions of servant
girls read this story in its various
versions in the columns of the
“Family Herald.”
Millions were trying to get
into the theatre and millions were
trying to get out when the pre-
sent commentator saw the film,
and the ones trying to get out
had to be smuggled out by the
backdoor. Cause of the frenzy
was that romantic couple
Michael Wilding and Anna
Neagle.
Mr. Wilding is a young lord
who tries to raise the wind on
his family’s collection of Old
Masters, is unable to realise on
the deal and is forced to go into
hiding. He turns up as an in-
credibly cultivated footman with
an Oxford accent at the man-
sion of a mining magnate, whose
niece. Miss Neagle, with infal-
lible instinct, scents the lord be-
neath the livery of the footman.
After a couple of thousand
feet of calf-love, Miss Neagle’s
judgment is confirmed, Tom
Walls, her indulgent uncle,
blesses the union and the couple
are left in the final clinch and
in the confident expectation of
happiness everlasting.
The effortless ease with which
the English producers present
this bunkum is evidence of long
practice in a deathless tradition.
* * * *
“The Paleface,” Sydney Prince
Edward’s current offering, cari-
catures the stereotyped cowboy
film that has been delighting the
youngsters ever since films were
first made. Bob Hope fills the
‘part of a tooth-puller who be-
comes entangled in a scheme to
prevent some evil go-getters
selling firearms to a tribe of
Redskins. Bob’s opposite, Jane
Russell, had only to repeat a past
performance to keep the audi-
ence laughing. The show is
bright enough as holiday fare,
but it is unlikely to add to
Hope’s reputation as a comedian.
* ♦ * *
“Foyer”: cats (B.
8/12/ ’48)? I knew one which got
itself on the payroll by sheer
effrontery. One scene in the
play included a fence, at one
end of which was an old drum
used as a water-supply. One
night a cat walked nonchalantly
along the top of the fence until
it came to the drum. Then it
jumped down and calmly walked
off-stage. A brainwave struck
the producer. As the cat’s im-
promptu appearance had evoked
loud applause, he decided to
train the cat to do its stuff every
night. He rubbed mutton-fat
along the top of the fence and
at the end placed a rubbish-bin,
in which was a piece of meat.
The lid of the bin was so fixed
that the cat could easily remove
it. His idea worked, and every
night the cat would walk along
the meat-trail and jump down
on to the bin tb get its meal.
Why didn’t the cat go direct to
the bin? I don’t know, but it
didn’t.


- -
AUSTRALIA
’S
GREATEST
AIRLINE
Past.. Present. . Future
With 24,696 miles of regular air route now
open, Qantas Empire Airways operates the
greatest length of unduplicated air route flown
by any Australian airline.
IOROOR
SUVA
sew guinea
DARWIN '
NORFOLK
LORD HOWE t*
SYDNEY
QantM
E H P 1 R E A I R W A V S
**G3
Tenders.
ADDRESSED to the Secretary, Solomon
Islands Development Co., Ltd., Box 543,
G.P.0., Sydney, are invited and will be
received up to 12 Noon, Saturday, 30th
April, 1949, for the purchase of the fol-
lowing coconut plantations properties
situated in the British Solomon Islands
Protectorate; —
NEAL ISLAND and small plantation
on mainland.
TETIPARI.
MANNING STRAITS. •
LUTEE.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Terms with suitable guarantees will be
considered.
Further particulars will be made avail-
able on application.
ADDRESSED to the Secretary, Short-
land Islands Plantations Ltd., Box 543,
G.P.0., Sydney, are invited and will be
received up to 12 Noon, Saturday, 30th
April, 1949, for the purchase of the fol-
lowing coconut plantations properties
situated in the British Solomon Islands
Protectorate: —
LOFUNG.
HARAPA.
KAMALIAI.
The highest or any tender not necessarily
accepted.
Terms with suitable guarantees will be
considered.
Further particulars will be made avail-
able on application.
Public Notice.
r, LOUIS BATISTICH, of Yugoslav
nationality, bom at Lumbarda, Yugo-
slavia, and resident 22 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at Maxwell Street,
Mona Vale, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act,
1920-1946.
Ancestors of
an Industry
/
CJt=i
r"T
Mercer has justly been called the father
of textile chemistry. In 1844 he investigated the
action of caustic soda on cotton, and made obser-
vations which, forty years afterwards, enabled
Lowe to produce the highly lustred material now
known as Mercerized Cotton. He also made the
discovery that cellulose could be dissolved in a
solution of copper oxide in ammonia, and so laid
the foundation for what later developed into the
Bemberg process of manufacturing rayon. Mer-
cer’s prolific genius produced many other inven-
tions concerning textile dyeing and printing, many
of which came into immediate use.
Born near Blackburn in Lancashire in 1791, John
Mercer went to work as a bobbin winder at the
Oakenshaw Print Works at the age of nine. For-
tunately a fellow employee taught him reading,
writing and arithmetic. This enabled young
Mercer to read a second-hand copy of “The
Chemical Pocket Book.” by James Parkinson.
With this meagre education, Mercer went on to
invent a new method of textile printing, and re-
organized the Print Works of Oakenshaw, where
he had been apprenticed as a child. By 1850 he
was a partner in the venture, which as a result
of his inventions, had become a resounding
success, while his scientific emin-
ence had been recognized by his
election to the Fellowship of the
Royal Society. He died in 1866.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
IL/69/I6
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
It may be mere fancy, but Sydney
racing form gives an impression or
having become much more consistent
and reliable in recent months—almost,
one might say, since the . A.J.C. s
intensified anti-doping campaign com-
menced to bear fruit.
In the Sydney scene, J. Thompson,
at present, almost as usual, is leading
the field in the jockeys’ premiership.
In addition to being a brilliant rider
Thompson is a good judge of horses
and seldom errs in making his choice
from the several mounts likely to be
offered him. In particularly good
form at Randwick on Saturday, he
rode four winners and a second from
seven mounts.
In recent years the riders’ premier-
ship has usually resolved into a tussle
between Thompson and W. Cook,
but this year Thompson will be minus
his old rival; Cook leaves at the end
of the month for England, where he
should do very well. Another good
rider headed abroad is E. Fordyce,
en route for Colombo, and the suc-
cessful apprentice R. Coles has wisely
decided to give up the losing battle
with increasing weight.
•"■.j'* - * i
Confirming the opinion expressed
here, that, with age, he prefers a
longer journey, old Barnsley scored
an impressive win in Saturday’s Janu-
ary Handicap (12f.); he won by a
neck from the lightly-weighted Fligh
Ideals, with Steady third. Barnsley
was ridden by Thompson, who must
thoroughly understand the old fellow;
12 months back he won the Villiers
on him.
Continuing the improvement shown
in his recent Moorefield win (when
he started at 50 to 1), the four-year-
old Agincourt gelding Skip Court won
the six-furlongs Sefton Handicap with
a brilliant late run. Persian Prince
was second and Heroic Sovereign
third, the latter a good first-up effort.
Evidently punters regarded Skip
Court’s Moorefield win as something
of a fluke; he was allowed to start
at 12 to 1, while five others were at
shorter odds.. Skip Court was ridden
by apprentice W. Hughes, and gave
the lad, who has had only about a
dozen mounts in all, a hat-trick of
wins spread over three successive
Saturdays; he kicked off with Chess-
man (33 to 1) at Randwick and fol-
lowed up with two wins on Skip
Court. ....
The gentleman responsible for
arranging horses’ numbers in the
race-book, in cases where that is not
done automatically by the weights,
showed good judgment concerning tne
Juvenile Novice Handicap for colts
and geldings. Seven of the .accep-
tors —six of them having their first
start in a race —shared topweight of
8.7. Given pride of place in the
book was Crag Son —one of those
making their debut —and, ndden by
G Moore, this Felcrag colt won well
from Star of the South and Zetland.
A similar event for fillies also went
to No. 1 in the book in Ambitious,
deserving her topweight of 9st. yet
allowed to start at the surprisingly
good odds of 15 to 1.
Thompson’s mounts took the re-
mainder of the programme at Rand- ,
wick, Freedom winning the Three-year-
old Handicap, Leetona the mile Mmto
Handicap and Loyal the Novice.
Although she beat nothing of much
account, Loyal’s success in the 12-
furlongs Novice was a good effort
for a three-year-old filly; she is an
aptly named daughter of Mr. Stand-
fast-Constant Miss.
* * * *
The turf offers, surely, no greater
pleasure than that of seeing a fine
horse simply defying the handicapper s
attempts to bring him down to the
level of lesser, lights. Gallant Gentle-
man has been treating Melbourne
racegoers to that pleasure for some
weeks now and gave another grand
display at Caulfield on Saturday.
In the fa,ce of his record of six
wins from seven successive starts over
obstacles, Gallant Gentleman was
asked to carry the stunning plaster
of 12.13 in Saturday’s Hawthorn
Hurdle; next in the weights, of the
16 other runners, was recent winner
Finentigue receiving just the even 3st.
from the champion. Others ranged
from 9.9 down to the minimum 9st.
Despite striking all manner of
trouble, including one particularly
close shave when two other runners
fell fair in his path, Gallant Gentle-
man, expertly handled by L. Meenan,
won by one and a half lengths from
Marsula and the crowd roared its
approval.
. Admittedly, in his great run of
success, Gallant Gentleman has been
beating some very poor stuff. In fact,
the fields attracted by jumping events
in the past couple of months have
been so poor in numbers and quality
that leading clubs are seriously con-
sidering wiping cross-country events
from their summer programmes m
future. However, Gallant Gentle-
man’s winning of Saturday’s race was
a wonderful effort regardless of the
company.
Gallant Gentleman, and also Bright
Sea (A. Breasley), who took the fol-
lowing race, the Juvenile Stakes, pro-
vided examples of the truth of the old
racing saw “the more they win the
better the price.” Evidently once a
horse has woo a couple in a row
punters become obsessed with the
theory of averages; curiously the
same notion will inspire them to
follow another horse unswervingly as
it chalks up a string of failures.
Gallant Gentleman started at 7 to 2;
the Hellespont filly Bright Sea, with
two recent successes to her credit,
went out at 6 to 1 to down Jhelum
and Cragwill in the Juvenile.
Whatever pleasure or profit punters
gathered from Gallant Gentleman’s
win drifted away as the afternoon
proceeded to record the defeat of
seven successive favorites. After re-
cent experiences of distance races
punters made a wary approach to the
two-miles Inkerman Handicap; finally
Antares was installed a cautious
favorite at 6 to 1.
Antares was beaten but seemed a
bit unlucky. He was ridden anything
but a well-judged race, being rushed
to the front three furlongs from home
when he had seemed safely and com-
fortably ensconced in the box-seat.
He was a tired horse when challenged
by Mokan in the straight, and, veer-
ing out under pressure, seriously in-
terfered with Mokan. Antares was
first past the post, with a head to
spare, but there was little doubt that
a protest would be entered and up-
held —as it was, after a brief hearing.
Both Gallant Gentleman and
Mokan are trained by Syd Ferguson,
and St. Razzle in the Park Stakes
(6f.) gave Ferguson his first experi-
ence of landing a treble. The St.
Magnus five-year-old had a very easy
win from the three-year-olds Harella
and Gay Saint.
Both the Normanby Handicap (for
apprentice riders) and the nine-
furlongs Rowena Welter required
divisions. Foxhaven (B. McComiskie)
and Photon (Stan Martin), both four-
year-olds, took the divisions of the
Normanby. The grey Qur Land (J.
Gilmore) proved too hot for the
heavily-backed Sydney visitor Euryalus
in the first Rowena, and Monte
Cassino (R. Cann) enraged the mob
by winning the second from the
favorite, Saxonian.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Maiden Two-year-old: Zetland, 1;
Trader, 2; Star of the South, 3.
Maiden Two-year-old (fillies):
Dowager, 1; Joy Court, 2; Embrace,
3. Parramatta Mixed; Duke of Syke,
1; Sea Serpent, 2; Circus Boy, 3.
Auburn Mixed: Loyal, 1; Eudesia,
2; Amyr Bay, 3. Lord Mayor’s Cup:
Monogram, 1; Avalanche, 2; Skilled,
3. Flying: Blue Tulip, 1; Persian
Prince, 2; Silent, 3. Welter: Rifle,
1; Chessman, 2; Caribbean, 3.
* * * *
With the seniors partaking a spell,
the N.S.W. and Victorian second
Xls enjoyed the limelight at Mel-
bourne last week; the visitors took
a trouncing by 195 runs. Scores
were solid: Vic., 276 and 346;
N.S.W., 301 and 126. Turner (97),
Chambers (89), Howard (75) and
trundlers Hill (seven for 112) and
Duncan (six for 103) helped Victoria
on the winning way; De Courcey
(73), Dwyer (52), Powell (seven for
207) and Hole (half a dozen for an
even gross) did their best for N.S.W.
* * * *
Queensland cricket will miss left-
hander Rex Rogers, who has called
it a day. Rogers was a familiar and
unmistakable figure on the field,
rivalling Warwick Armstrong for sheer
bulk. He has played regularly for
the northern State since the 1936-37
season, when he rattled up a century
v. South Australia at Adelaide;
since then he has piled up nearly
2000 runs in Shield matches, apart
from giving visiting overseas bowlers
an occasional battering—explosively
hard driving was his forte.
“You feint with the right like this, then bring in a
left hook”
The lady cricketers held their first
Test at Adelaide. After losing three
for 19, the local lasses rallied round
to add 115 for the fourth wicket (in-
cluding a noble 111 try Betty Wilson),
but the side was all out for 212. It
seemed a nicely feminine touch that
there should have been three wickets
lost l.b.w. and jour run out. At
stumps on Saturday England had lost
two for 21.
* * * *
Competing in the National athletic
championships at Sydney Cricket
Ground on Saturday, visiting Olympic
runners Lloyd La Beach and Herb
McKenley had mixed luck. La Beach
won the 100yds. very easily, but
McKenley was well stitched in the
440yds., for which distance he holds
the world record,,
La Beach won his heat in 9.75ec.,
and, after dwelling at the start in
the final, won in a common canter,
clocking 9.Bsec. With Treloar out
of action there is little chance of
La Beach being beaten here, but it
is likely that he will sooner or later
be disqualified for breaking at the
start, where he is very toey. Other-
wise La Beach offers an object-lesson
for any young aspiring athlete, com-
bining as he does a terrific stride
with the maximum of relaxation.
The 440yds. final was unfortunately
held in a minor hurricane which hit
Sydney round five o’clock. Running
in torrential rain whipped by a savage
wind, the competitors were scarcely
visible. McKenley was soundly beaten
by 20-years-old medical student Edwin
Carr, who produced a remarkable
run in the circumstances to clock
48sec. Proudest man on the ground
was Carr’s father, the famous “Slip
Carr, himself one of the world’s best
in the early ’twenties. McKenley, in
defeat, showed, as he did on his
previous visit here, that he is first
and foremost a grand sportsman.
* * * *
“Sevener”: With Pickworth, the
Australian Open champ., away in
England, it looks as if Von Nida
will be the top pro. golfer in 1949,
though Cremin might rediscover some
of the form that kept him on top of
the Von a year or so ago. The Ma
State has been producing the best
golfers for some years now, which
is not surprising—the rewards for
pros are bigger and more plentiful
in Sydney.
* * ♦ *
At Melbourne Stadium French im-
portation Emile Famechon
didn’t get much of a look-in against
Australian bantam champion Elly
Bennett apart from all-too-frequent
opportunities to inspect Bennett s
gloves at uncomfortably close range.
The Frenchman is as game as they
come, but was right out of his class.
* * * *
Leichhardt Stadium chalked up
another unpopular decision last week
when Jackie Wilson (9.5 j) was de-
clared to have drawn with Darby
Brown Full of business,
Brown outfought Wilson in almost
every round and twice floored him
for long counts. The ref. said, how-
ever, that he gave Wilson many points
for evasion which earned him the
draw. He was evasive all right—that
is, if continuous full-speed back-
pedalling constitutes evasion.


Look for the
Maison
Marnay
Label!
A Penfolds Hospital
iiMPi
m 4 :
Pain soothed instantly
BOILS
BROUGHT TO A HEAD
Nature often causes a bon to
come to a head and thus ease
painful misery . . . BUT .
doctors agree that moist heat!
coupled with a poultice action.
helps bring boils to a
head quicker. An
easy, practical way
for you to apply moist
heat is by using
proven, world-famous
df
Ml
s
Pc#?wit-
until summer’s nearly
through,and swelter day
and night - ' ,
INSULATE
your home^^witb
BX SIRGWOOI
No House, No Home, No building is
modem and entirely healthy unless it is
insulated —preferably with 8.1. SLAGWOOL,
81-Gl2
ns
TELEPHONES: SYDNEY M 3038 • MELBOURNE MU 3508
BRISBANE B 3404' • ADELAIDE C 7257 • PERTH 8 502’
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Big Prices Question
All the world is deeply con-
cerned about the future of
prices. What will it cost to
build a house in two years—
more or less than now? Can a
woolgrower safely count on his
wool averaging 35d. a pound for
the next five years? Will it be
cheaper to buy a car now or in a
year or two’s time? Will money
borrowed now be easier or
harder to repay in the future?
Are share prices likely to rise or
fall over the next five years?
Are we to see a depression,
either in Australia or all over
the world, following present
booming prices and soaring
costs, or is inflation still a potent
—and just as evil—force?
These are vital questions in-
deed for a large variety of
people ; they all have to do with
prices, Government money
and “employment” policy and
the “economics of scarcity” or
of plenty, and, along with
Socialism, Communism and
the possibility of war with
Russia, represent the burning
questions of the present day.
In approaching the general
question of future price-levels
one of our first instincts is to
turn back to past economic
history— to study the booms and
slumps, the periods of under-
production and overproduction,
of easy credit and tight money,
in days within living memory.
In almost every case it will
be noted that a slump followed
a boom —especially a boom that
expressed itself in rising costs
and prices of the velocity we see
today.
But we must accept that pic-
ture of the past with reservation
in trying to fit it in with our
present concept of affairs. In
those past days economic laws,
especially the law of supply and
demand, had freer play, and
abuses of the economic system
brought their own retribution.
The buying-power of money
was politically respected in
Britain, the Empire and the
United States ; and an endeavor
was made to protect the value
of a person’s savings as well as
of his earnings. In order to
assist in maintaining this stability
in money, recourse was had to
a metallic standard or anchor —
the gold standard. Generally
this gold standard was kept be-
yond political interference. It
worked in a way that, as a rule,
brought a sharp lesson to those
in industry, urban or rural, who
misjudged the demands of the
people for different kinds of pro-
duction and produced to excess
or at too high a cost, to those
seeking easy money by the non-
productive . road of speculation,
to wage-earners pressing for
higher wages and fewer hours
regardless of output, and in its
over-all effect to many blame-
less citizens hit by the same
swing of the pendulum.
The effect of these slumps—
unemployment, falls in prices,
in wages, share-values, etc. —
have always been deplored by
political opinion. Right, Left and
Centre. The causes have never
been so universally censured.
The Left —“Labor,” Socialist,
Communist, etc. —in particular
has never given proper weight
in-its planning and propaganda
to the causes of slumps, though
ever ready, with “remedies,”
mostly inflationary. The Com-
munists secretly have made a
close study of the causes of
slumps, and, in their attempts at
“world revolution,” have worked
extremely hard to accelerate the
boom-slump cycle.
Now, to come right back
from retrospection to the pre-
sent problem, we should be con-
vinced that our economic picture
is drawn on rather different
lines from what we have seem
in the past. We are going
through the daddy of all booms
—in a price-and-costs sense. We
have an overflowing of “credit”
—in a paper-money meaning.
But in. no way are we really
“prosperous” ; there is no abun-
dance of production, no equat-
ing of easy money-creation with
the more difficult production of
consumer .goods.
And there is a most vital dif-
ference, compared with pre-war
days, in the control and creation
of money. There is no effective
gold standard in our lives today,
no politically-free foundation on
which to base-r-and measure—-
our paper-money credit volume
and assure its stability. In
Australia, and to a greater or
lesser extent in other countries,
monetary policy has passed
“ C'night , Ned —an see that you ain't gone another
ten. years."
under political control, and, in
Socialistic economies, Govern-
ments are making wide use of
their monetary powers to keep
employment “full” by huge taxes
and Budget spending regardless
of industrial discipline or of pro-
duction, and to frustrate the
normal reactions in an economy
where a lack of balance between
supply and demand has not re-
sulted in corrective economic
pressure being forced on Govern-
ments and the people as a body.
Since the war began in 1939
the holder of bank savings and
Commonwealth bonds has lost,
probably, half the value of his
money through war-time infla-
tion and post-war underproduc-
tion, both reflected in rising
living costs. This has not
worried the Canberra “Labor”
Government or its N. S. Wales
partner to the extent of causing
them to take corrective or dis-
ciplinary measures. Instead, the
40-hour week was introduced,
and further financial initiative
was taken—or the attempt made
—from the trading banks.
“Labor” Governments in Aus-
tralia seem determined that they
will continue to attempt to buy
voting support with “paper-
money” prosperity regardless of
our real welfare and prosperity,
which is based upon production.
This has an important bearing
on the future of costs, and of
prices based on costs. It means
the continued creation of money,
of redistribution of income from
the investor and wage-payer to
the wage-earner and pensioner.
“Labor” in Australia seems
bound to inflict higher costs on
us yet, which implies dearer
goods. Production of most
essential goods is still inade-
quate, which means that in-
dustry generally will be looking
for staff, and that there will be
no spur to wage-earners to work
harder.
Rash and costly experiments,
such as the introduction of
“free-medicine,” cradle-to-grave
“social security ” etc., suggest
that “Labor” is still not dis-
turbed about costs or inflation.
And costs are the factor which
makes homes, motor-cars, etc.,
expensive to buy.
Costs in Australia seem bound
to go on rising still, and that
means higher prices for the
goods we consume.
Lower prices for homes, furni-
ture, etc.? A fall in prices
overseas, .which .might hit our
land industries and manufac-
turers badly, is unlikely to reveal
a Federal “Labor” Government
equipped with any “remedial”
measures except credit-expan-
sion. “Labor” is not likely to
adopt any deflationary course,
even where necessary to disci-
pline industry or preserve the
value of savings, life-policies,
Commonwealth securities, etc.
In the event of a recession hit-
ting us with “Labor” in con-
trol, though prices of the things
we sell abroad may fall, “Labor”
will be reluctant to force a re-
duction in costs. On past form,
it will prefer credit-expansion
and depreciation of the exchange
rate, especially as it has full
credit and exchange control.
And that is bound to keep all
costs high, regardless of what
might be happening to real in-
comes.
Lyke-Nu Dry-cleaning
The swelling ranks among dry-
cleaning establishments have
apparently passed their peak, and
are being partly reduced in the
absorption of Alphonse Even
Pty., of Sydney, by Lyke-Nu Dry
Cleaning. Alphonse Even’s
capital was £34,360, but each
£1 share is only represented by
4s. Id. in tangible assets. Lyke-
Nu has paid 7s. 9d. for the shares
(a total of £13,265), and to make
the purchase it recently issued
18,500 £1 ords., raising its own
capital to £43,825.
Lyke-Nu, which began 12
years ago as a partnership be-
tween two of its present direc-
tors, was already listed on
’Change in respect of its prefs.
Now it is proposed to get official
quotation for the ords. also by
a placement of 12,500 £1 ords. at
30s. each—the offer being
directed in the first place to
existing pref. shareholders and
then, if necessary, to clients of
S. R. Johnson, the underwriting
brokers.
On the last balance-sheet
figures, and allowing for the
Alphonse Even deal, the ords.
would have about 21s. 7d. tan-
gible backing. They have re-
ceived 10 p.c. in each of the past
two years, and for the current
term (ending March 31) an in-
terim tax-free 6} p.c. has been
paid.
The complete plant (bought
from the Ford Co, in U.S.A.)
of Metropolitan Portland
Cement, Ltd., has arrived in
Sydney. It is still hoped by the
co. to have it “in production”
by the end of this year. The
clinker piant will be set up at
Maldon, and the final milling
section at Granville.


Position Vacant.
WORKS-MANAGER REQUIRED.
WANTED Working Works-Manager for
Modern Dry Cleaning and Laundry estab-
lishment. All Horscroft Machinery in-
stalled. Married man preferred. Capable
'handling and training staff. Familiar all
phases of work. Good wages' and con-
ditions. Apply with personal and busi-
ness references to P. L. PUCKRIDGE,
Proprietor, PORT LINCOLN STEAM
LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING CO.,
PORT LINCOLN, S. AUST.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPEEME COUET OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO DAEEEL EDWIN MOOEE late of
Hector Street Bass Hill in the State of
New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
DOEIS MAEIE MOOEE has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4345 of 1948 on the
grounds of desertion for three years with-
out just cause or excuse You may enter-
an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or
before the 17th day of March 1949 and
obtain a copy of the Petition without
charge from F. A. FINN, Solicitor, 66
King Street, Sydney— (ms.) C. K. BODY,
Eegistrar in Divorce.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO the next-of-kin of THOMAS GOODSIR
BROWN, late of Rabaul, Territory of
New Guinea, Warrant Officer of Police,
who became missing on the first day of
July, 1942, and is for official purposes
presumed to be dead. Please communi-
cate with the Curator of Intestate Estates
of the Territory of New Guinea, adminis-
trator of the estate of the abovenamed
deceased. Any person having information
which would be of value in tracing the
next-of-kin of the deceased is requested
to advise the undersigned.—H. W. HARDY,
Curator of Intestate Estates, Port Moresby,
Papua-New Guinea, December SO, 1948,
m
7^
Catfam)
CHAIRMAN OF LLOYDS
"'Xtf/p'y
me ~ise 6
m
m.
It is men of the type of Brook Watson who
have built up the prosperous industries of the
world. He was a pattern of all that is best in
business —“whose word was always as good as
his bond” —and he helped to give Lloyd’s a
reputation for absolute honesty and depend-
ability that they still enjoy to-day.
tsm
m.
if One of a series of personalities who were
prominent in the early days of historic Lloyd’s
of London and which, we hope, will be of
interest to you.
EDWARD ICMLEY
& SONS FT If. LTD.
Insurances effected at
A wealth of experience in all phases of Insurance,
gained through long association with Lloyd’s, under-
lies the service that we place at your disposal through
our branches in every State of the Commonwealth.
Your inquiry for further information would be welcome.
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
263 George St., 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney;
and 33 Watt St., Newcastle.
and all other states
‘.‘DOMINION MONARCH”
me
S:
v r '--:
■ 91Sa
SS!
*«»
=2
=&
fault
sS&v*
■w—.
Those wiWfeve krro
'' £—, ’ *" *;
(C~
the retumof 4:he 27,
* —wp) 3 *!T3@sfci ‘ ~- **
*°B
ury rnotr^Pvessel ,
. 2. , ~* / «
Monarch’*,
*— —’
afloat. Accommodation (Ist- class "only) limitecT
passengers in single and every one ari*
outside room, a large proportion with private bathrooms;
also special suites. Regular fast sailings in incomparable
luxury to South Africa and England. First sailing in March
almost completely booked. Next sailings July & November.
SHAW SAVILL LINE
Dalgety & Co. Ltd. (Incorporated in England). 2 O’Connell Street, Sydney
Shaw SaviH and Albion Co. Ltd. (Inc in England). 17 O’Connell Street. Sydney
SIH9
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
The 12 days of Christmas
were all the happier for the 60ft.
tree in Trafalgar-square. For the
second year in succession the
citizens of Oslo have honored the
citizens of London with the gift
of a substantial and charac-
teristic token in acknowledgment
of the part London played in the
war, and of the hospitality given
to Norwegians. In the glad pil-
grimage that was made by, it
seems, almost every London
child and his parents there was
something of the true spirit of
Christmas. The tree meant a
great deal more than so many
branches and colored lights, for
it reminded us that nations can
still express goodwill—and grati-
tude.
A new kind of party has be-
come well-established in the
outer suburbs, where petrol
shortage, long distances, higher
railway fares and meals in
restaurants tend to restrain
people from too - frequent
theatregoing. Television sets are
not as yet universal. Many
owners enjoy sharing their enter-
tainment with neighbors, and are
known to offer open house, sub-
ject to a preliminary telephone-
call, to a contribution in kind
towards refreshments and to a
maximum of six or so “viewers.”
Much has been spoken and
written about the Englishman’s
traditional reserve. He has vari-
ously been called phlegmatic, a
“stuffed shirt,” a house-hermit
and many other epithets more
unkind than true. The reserve
we do not deny. Many of us
who treasure war-time memories
of happy landfalls in the
Dominions may perhaps wish
that our potential hospitality
w'ere more characteristic of the
“bush” than of the underground.
To the stranger, London is
lonelier than the desert, as many
oversea visitors must know. But
the reserve is often no more than
—reserve; it might even be shy-
ness.
After an appeal for hospitality
for Dominions crews engaged in
the Berlin air-lift, the London
“Times” has had to refuse any
further offers. There are count-
less British homes where visitors
from the Dominions Will be wel-
come and honored guests. It is
only right that they should
know; and it is only fair to
warn them to make contacts.
Tribunal Afterthoughts
While the tribunal of inquiry
into allegations against Ministers
and public officials (commonly
referred to as “the probe”) can
hardly be classed as entertain-
ment, it certainly held the eager
attention of the whole country
for more than five weeks. The
cramped space of the daily news-
papers has been strained with a
succession of reports that were
as absorbing as any serial story.
Britons whose day-to-day affairs
extend little further than homes,
offices, factories, cafds, pubs and
football-grounds have had an
enlightened glimpse into another,
remote and exotic, world. Each
day’s report has had its own
slight climax; and, because the
closing evidence came through
too late for a full account in the
evening papers, readers found
themselves held in suspense until
next morning.
On thinking back to the
Budget leakage of the ’thirties,
an astonishing and rather dis-
quieting difference strikes the
mind. In those days any idea of
a Minister of the Crown—or any
other public servant —falling
short of the high responsibilities
of his office seemed too absurd
to be given serious thought.
Consequently, when the facts be-
came known the shock was all
the greater. But in the autumn
of 1948 public reaction was
more of cynicism than of out-
raged decency: there was merely
some clicking of tongues and
raising of eyebrows, as if to say,
“Well, I’m not really surprised.”
After mid-November, when
the proceedings began, the affair
took oh the aspect of a drama
of tangled complexities and
clearly-drawn characters, with
the Attorney-General binding
the play together as delineator
rather than prosecutor. The
theme was: Corruption, yes or
no? The background was a
strangely mixed one of Govern-
ment offices, a tailor’s shop, a
solicitor’s office, dog- and horse-
racing tracks, parties in Mayfair
hotels, the modest suburban
home of an ex-railway clerk be-
come junior Minister, a hospital
ward, first-class railway com-
partments and the Labor-party
conference at Margate. The
dramatis personae might have
been broadly divided into two
groups Government officials
and men of “big business.”
The Characters
As the principal characters
came to give evidence there were
many revelations, much astonish-
ment and, at times, grounds for
extenuation or sympathy. A
strong element of suspense arose
from the consciousness that at
any moment another well-known
personage might be mentioned,
and might even be called upon to
give evidence.
The central character, “an
individual called Stanley” (de-
scribed by one witness as “some
form of confidence-trickster,” by
his own counsel as “impetuous
but kind,” and, at the suggestion
of the Attorney-General, as “a
rascal with other qualities”), is
said to have stated that he “knew
everybody.” Certainly, one
Cabinet Minister and some other
Ministers were called upon as
witnesses, while the names of
many prominent politicians were
mentioned during the proceed-
ings. Mr. Stanley attracted wide
attention to himself by the fact
that he was an alien, an undis-
charged bankrupt and had used
a number of aliases. He was
mercurial and undismayed in the
witness-box during the 11 hours
of his examination ; and he gave
the impression that he was a
match for any astute and long-
experienced counsel.
Mr. John Belcher, the then
Parliamentary Secretary to the
Board of Trade, whose conduct
was under investigation, gave his
evidence frankly and bore him-
self stoically and with dignity.
Hurriedly summoned from
domestic duties, Mrs. Belcher
brought the forthright and im-
passioned feelings of an un-
affected working-class housewife
into the court-room atmosphere;
and this minor catharsis caused
a sympathetic wave of almost
tidal suddenness.
Some witnesses cannot be said
to have redeemed themselves,
even in part; and many, especi-
ally among the men of big busi-
ness, were noticeably ill at ease.
Mr. Belcher’s evidence was
something of an anticlimax, in
that the limelight moved away
from him when the relationship
between Mr. Stanley and Mr.
George Gibson was outlined.
Mr Gibson, who is one of the
leading figures in the Labor
movement, and who became a
Companion of Honor in 1946,
always seemed painfully con-
scious of where he was. A
“trap” exit would undoubtedly
have relieved him of his embar-
rassment.
Inquiry Ended
The final curtain has not yet
fallen ; findings of the tribunal
will not be made known till later
in January.
The Attorney-General’s sub-
mission that the inquiry (in an-
other age it would have been an
impeachment) “may tend to
undermine confidence, not in a
party but in a system, not in a
particular politician but in the
Parliamentary form of govern-
ment” merits due consideration,
especially as Sir Hartleys
forensic skill and grasp of detail
have won him universal respect.
But in the minds of most people
there have been no doubts about
the suitability of Parliamentary
government. Their concern has
been whether the conduct of
public affairs has suffered as a
result of (a) Socialist methods
of government, and (b) post-war
controls and general deteriora-
tion in moral standards. “The
probe” will ensure that the
nation’s house will be put in
order, if and wherever needed.
If indiscretions other than those
already admitted are revealed,
firm action is certain to be taken
and more resignations may
follow.
No doubt as a direct result of
Mr. Stanley’s apparently lucra-
tive enterprises, alteration and
strengthening of the law are
probable, especially in that relat-
ing to bankruptcy, to the chang-
ing of names, to the payment of
“personal” expenses and to the
making of “business” gifts. The
contact-man, or lobbyist, whose
stock-in-trade depends upon
knowing the “right people” and
where to pull the strings, is un-
likely to have such an open field
in the future.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Brolga”: There’d been one or two
reports at the station that Jack, who
looked after the outstation at the Ten
Mile, was getting a bit queer, but I hadn’t
taken much notice of them. Camping at
the hut one night, I didn’t notice any-
thing more than a few mild eccentricities
in the old chap. But after we’d saddled
up next morning and Jack had loosed
his two yelping dogs he ran back into
his one-roomed shack. There were
sounds of violent banging from inside
as he jumped up and down on the floor.
Then he reappeared, made a tremendous
leap down the hut steps and slammed
the door behind him. “Nearly forgot this
mornin’,” he announced. “Always have
to do this. It keeps the ants out while
I’m away.”
“Uramao”: After 50 years of its
absence from the sight of man,
ornithologists considered that the
Notornis (Maori name Takahe) had
joined the moa as one of Maori-
land’s extinct native birds, until the
party led by Dr. Orbell in the Lake
Te Anau country photographed a
couple of specimens and released
them. An Act of Parliament pro-
tects the birds absolutely, as well
as their eggs, feathers and car-
casses. Only four specimens exist:
two are in the British Museum,
one is in the Dresden Museum and
the other —and the best extant —in
Otago Museum, Dunedin. It was
just a century ago that the bones of
one were sent to England’s Profes-
sor Owen for identification. It was
he who gave it the name of
Notornis mantelli, after Mantell,
who made the discovery. Notornis
is varied in color, somewhat
larger than the barnyard fowl but
smaller than a goose.
* * * aft
“Horseless Horseman”: The
lighthouse-keepers at Gabo (Vic.)
report that the thousands of fairy
penguins which put to sea from the
island’s rookery every morning and
return at night have recently failed
to come back. As a result
thousands of baby penguins are dying of
starvation in their burrow-nests. It al-
ways beats me how these little slatey-
blue birds, almost human-like in their
gait and antics, ever find their way back
without the aid of compasses, sextants
and charts. Entirely flightless, their
horizon is restricted to sea-level, yet you
find the avian swimmers 50 miles from
land in Bass Strait. Perhaps this is why,
on Victorian coasts, they are the only
birds in any numbers you find constantly
washed up dead.
♦ * » *
“Hanko”: Time was when bandicoots
were thick in south-central Victoria. The
little hoppers had their homes in the
stonewall fences, and seemingly subsisted
solely on the roots of thistles. Around
dusk the dogs would be frantic
trying to catch the elusive creatures
before they made their walled retreat,
but even a smart whippet rarely caught
one. The ’coot had nothing of pace, but
in the art of dodging it was a pastmaster.
At times it would raid the garden and
tunnel for the roots of geranium and
pelargonium, a strange taste with all
manner of root-vegetables handy. At the
turn of the century a disease wiped
out the bandicoot colonies, leaving
bunny fortressed securely in the stone-
walled areas.
* * * *
“Blime”: It was a little inland town in
central Victoria, and the boss of the local-
Progress Association was doing the
honors, “They were won by our fire-
briggde,” he announced proudly, point-
ing to a group of silver cups on display
in the Mechanics Hall. “Haven’t had a
brigade of our own long, but my word
the boys are keen. Got a fire-cart, and
all. They put on a good show against
other brigades in the competitions, and
we aren’t nearly so scared o’ fires round
here now.” The brigade’s activities, it
turned out, had beep confined to dummy
displays, but I was still around a couple
of weeks later when the real thing oc-
curred. It was a house half a mile or
so out of the town. Immediately the
brigade was summoned, and, pending
their arrival, we grabbed buckets, tins
and anything else waterworthy. Time
passed, anxious eyes scanned the town
toad, and the fire increased rapidly. We
stuck it out to the end. With the house
completely gutted and further effort use-
less I left. Halfway into town I came on
a little band of diehards still valiantly
shoving a large, shining but quite spark-
less fire-engine up and down the road.
* * * *
“Solitude”: “Sol, lend us two bob, will
y’?” “What for?” “I got t’ shout f’r
Ted Hansen.” I pulled it out. We’d
reached town to find Hansen taking a
mob through, so were holding our bunch
out by the saleyards till he got clear. As
Seventyfiver moved off I slid down into
the shade of the fence. The Herefords
were feeding contentedly, and we’d been
up since four o’clock. In a post near by a
wasp buzzed unceasingly, and across the
white road the heat shimmered more and
more hazily. Soon even the noise of the
wasp faded out. “Sol, lend us two bob,
will y’?” I stirred, rubbing a fist vigor-
ously over my eyes. “I gave it
to you,” I replied. “Well, it weren’t
my fault ol’ Charlie was flat broke
an’ on the cadge.” I found another
coin and dragged myself up to turn
back the feeding cattle. That over,
I was making for the fence once more
when the old bloke reappeared. “Sol,
lend us two bob, will y’? I got t’ shout
“Know anything about making a tourniquet?”
f’r Ted Hansen.” “What, again ?” “Aw,
I only got far’s the store when some cow
caught me f’r a damn’ raffle or some-
thin’.” I ran down a couple of zacks,
explored further and eventually added a
deener. Twenty minutes later Seventy-
fiver was back. “Ted was gorn when I
got there,” he reported, holding out the
zacks and the deener, “So here’s y’r two
bob back. Now, remember I paid it,
won’t y’, an’ don’t start sayin’ later that
I owe y’ somethin’.”
* ♦ * - *
“Plankton”: Those “daddy-long-legs”
spiders (B. 22/12/’4B) are of the Pholcus
clan. Like all their kind, the forepart
(cephalothorax) is joined to the abdomen
by a slender “waist,” and spinnerets at
the rear-end of the creature secrete the
web substance. Pholcus spiders have
eight eyes, although they look like three,
being closely grouped, i.e., threc-two-
three. As suggested, the rapid whirling
act they put on when alarmed is an in-
visibility stunt ; on an attempt to catch
the creature, however, it instantly drops
to the ground and scurries off with a
good turn of spead. The reason why
spiders don’t stick on their own webs is
because they always run along the foun-
dation-lines of the web, which, unlike
the others, are not sticky. The other
long-legged spidery-looking animals re-
ferred to are known as “harvesters,”
technically Opiliones, by some termed
Phalangids; they are not spiders. They
have the forepart and abdomen closely
fused together; also, unlike that of
spiders, the abdomen is distinctly Seg-
mented. Harvesters lack the means to
spin a web, and breathe through air-
tubes (tracheae). Spiders have lung-
books, so called because resembling the
leaves of a book, though some have air-
tubes also. Harvesters have only two
eyes placed back to back on opposite
sides of a protuberance, enabling them to
look sideways. Like spiders, they are
carnivorous, but are not restricted to
sucking the juices of their prey. The
name “Daddy-long-legs,” besides being
common to both the above, is also
applied to crane-flies, which, of course,
are two-winged insects.
* * * ♦
“M.U.R.”: Any of the Council recog-
nise this animal? About 2ft. long, heavy
body on short legs, little gleaming eyes
set fairly wide apart and a snout some-
thing like a cross between a pug-dog and
a baboon. Its ears were pointed like a
kelpie’s. It was dark when I saw it on
the edge of a lagoon, but it seemed to
be a dark-grey color. Couldn’t distin-
guish the tail. It vanished into the scrub
when it spotted me. District: Edward
River, just out of Moulamein (N.S.W.).
* * * »
“Old-timer”; High-water had put the
river well out over the lowlands and
turned the billabongs into lakes, and
Ghallagher thought it would be a good
time to go looking for wild-duck eggs
and knees for his new boat, so he put
forth one Sunday morning. He had a
hundred or so eggs and seven or eight
knee-bends, and was taking a short-cut
to the main river across a flooded flat
heavy with gumsuckers and drowned
lignum when something hit his boat a
shuddering blow for’ard. Ghallagher
stopped rowing and jumped round on his
thwart, just in time to see a shiny black
head bob under the water. He’d never
seen fish or fowl of that shape before,
and he dropped the oars and gr abbed his
gun, waiting. The boat slewed in the
current and the head bobbed and dived
on his other side. Then he heard some-
thing feeling along the bottom of the
boat and his hair started to rise as the
craft began to move against the current.
obviously pulled by something under it.
He poked beneath with an oar,
but without result. Then the boat began
to run with the current again, aftd, as it
slewed, he saw the black head bob, and
took a snap-shot, kicking up a lot of
water at the spot. Again something felt
along the bottom, and this time grabbed
the boat by the nose, towing it
upstream again. G.’s mouth went dry
and his eyes started to pop, but he
forced himself to feel down by the nose
—and there discovered the top wire of the
fence from which the black post was
bobbing. He swore feelingly and went
on his way.
* * * *
“L.P.”: The young migrant proved
himself a pretty good jumper, and after a
try-out on a level claypan the boys from
the Ten Mile thought him worth bottling
up for the high jump at the forthcoming
sports at Stringybark Creek. But the
young fellow was chary of performing
before a crowd. “There’ll be good
jumpers there from all over the place,”
he persisted. “They’ll be too hot for me.”
He yielded at last to a lot of persuasion,
but when he got out of the truck at the
oval on Sports Day and took one look
across the arena, he turned white and
bolted. “What’s the matter with y’?”
Alex Brown panted when he caught up
with him by the gates. “I told y’ they’d
be too hot for me,” said Choom. Then
he pointed to the sheaf-toss poles with
the crossbar dangling between the up-
rights 20ft. up from the ground. “A
man’d want wings to get over that thing! ”
he declared.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: We were out on the
shelterless plain between Rochester and
Echuca with night coming down and
steady rain falling, so we made for a
farmhouse and asked to camp in a big
shed we could see behind it. “Not on
your life!” said the cocky. “That’s me
chaff-shed, an’ it’s full, an’ I’m not havin’
bagmen set it alight. Get t’ Hades out o’
this or I’ll sool me dogs on y’.” We with-
drew and decided to keep walking. About
half a mile down the road, in the wet
dusk, that cocky passed us driving to-
wards Echuca. Mat stopped. “We’ll
duck back an’ sneak into his ruddy chaff-
shed,” he growled. “He reckons he’s got
rid of us.” Shortly we had circled the
house in the dark and climbed up on the
stacked bags, snuggling down near the
iron roof and listening to the rain drum-
ming on it. Some time later I awoke.
“Sh-sh! ” Mat whispered. Somebody with
a torch was in the shed, muttering to
himself. The rain was still falling. We
lay dead quiet. Then the light went out,
but we could hear somebody climbing
over the bags. When he was close Mat
said, “Mind where y’ goin’, mate.” The
visitor let out a yelp, and his torch flashed
on us and himself. It was the
cocky. Before we could do anything he
whispered, “Sh-sh, don’t make so much
flamin’ row. The missus an’ me two
boys is lookin’ everywhere t’ do me over
for slippin’ into town for a few drinks.”
Then he doused the torch and we settled
down for the night. You ought to have
seen the hand-out we got next morning!
* * * *
“V. 1.8.”: Martin was worried when
his champion stockhorse was found on
the reserve covered in sweat. He had
already learned that O’Reilly and
Bronco had been on the mustering on
the common together that day. Know-
ing that Bronco never rode one of his
hard-worked horses when anyone else’s
was available, Martin asked O’Reilly the
color of the horse Bronco had ridden.
“Can’t say I remember,” said O’Reilly.
On being pegged down, however, he was
positive that at least it hadn’t been a grey.
“Would it have been a chestnut?” per-
sisted Martin. “Aw, I dunno, I’m color-
blind,” was the reply. The following
night in the billiard-room O’Reilly, an in-
terested spectator, excitedly advised
Martin to “go in off the red!” “Thanks
for the tip, O’Reilly,” said'Martin. “But
since when has the old doc. been curing
color-blindness?”
* * ♦ •
“Rider Mac”: From the grey mountain
wall across the wide valley the flood-
water muddily lapped right up to the
verandah. The homestead occupants
were worriedly scanning the menace when
the old cove shot into view. Canoeing
straight over where the fences had been,
he manoeuvred right on to the verandah.
“ ’Struth, Herb, you took your time, didn t
you?” growled the boss. “I thought
you’d have been here long ago.” “Well,”
replied Herb slowly. “Y’ see, I wanted
to make certain the water put me fire
out before 1 left!”
« • ♦ *
“B. A. Ker”: Seven years ago Bluey
was in his prime—a solidly-built cattle-
dog with all a cattledog’s characteristics;
loyalty to his master, strong dislikes where
visitors were concerned, keen enjoyment
of a chance to heel a beast, and unholy
delight in a fight. Then Happy came—
a pup of no distinguishable breed that the
boy brought home because it was, well,
a pup, and it wagged itself when it wagged
its tail. Not until the fluffy little creature
had finished growing did Bluey add
violence to his obvious resentment. Then,
one day, he hurled his large, blue-
speckled body at the medium-sized Happy
and tried with all his savage skill to
murder the desperately defending inter-
loper. Completely ignoring the stick that
thrashed his flanks, he clamped his jaws
and held his grip. A bucket of water
flung in his face failed to disconcert him.
Only the arrival of his master prevented
the jealous creature from carrying out his
intention —and then only after the man’s
strong fingers had locked on the shaggy
windpipe and blocked it. After that
Bluey was never allowed off the chain
unless Happy was locked away in the
shed. But over the years there have
been mishaps: once when the run-wire,
to which Bluey’s chain was attached,
broke; several times when he slipped
the collar, and once when somebody
neglected to shut the shed door. Each
time the cattledog has tried to fulfil his
murder plans—until throttled into relax-
ing the death-grip. Now Bluey is 13 or
14 years old; he is deaf; his vision is
very poor, and his teeth are in bad shape.
But last week he slipped his collar; we
didn’t know (strangely, the fights are
fought in weird silence) until three-year-
old came in and said “Bluey’s fighting
Happy.” It wasn’t a true statement —
Happy had the grip on the veteran’s
throat. And it was the smaller dog that
had to be choked off. Bluey immediately
returned to the attack! Eyes, ears, teeth,
strength—all have failed. But the fight-
ing spirit—no, nothing will ever conquer
that while the old fellow can open and
shut his jaws!
NIGHTPIECE.
Mallee murmurs dryly to its deep brittle grasses*
Bleached by the moon in flat green light.
Our shadow is behind us and the grey steps
boldly,
Quiet mist sliding through the mistless night.
Night and I are very close together,
The bush is our mate, and the soft dark
breeze,
And a piccaninny debbil-debbil chews my
stirrup-leather
In the moon-cast shadow of the moving
trees.
Bark streamers tap on the whispering mallee,
The grey’s ears twitch now, fore and back,
And night and I are as close to each other
As mist and shadow on a timeless track.
N.S.W.
AINSLIE ANDERSON.


“Betcha”: The pick-me-ups for saving
the lives of new arrivals at lambing-time
are legion. There’s the bloke who totes a
large bottle of warm cow’s milk on his
morning round and forces a drink on
each weakling, and the one who swears
by half an aspirin per lamb. Then there’s
the cove who claims miraculous re-
coveries with M. and B. tablets, and the
one who never misses on a reasonable
case with thin gruel. But old Mick still
sticks to whisky. The district was
struggling through a bad season and the
lamb mortality was high when Mick
was recommended to the remedy. Arm-
ing himself with a large bottle, he
weakened it to half-strength and started
round his mob of starvers. The first
youngster was too weak to swallow his
approved ration, and after several
minutes of useless striving Mick took
the dose himself and went on. The next
three or four lambs were already dead, so
their pick-me-ups followed the first one.
Over the ridge Mick measured out tots
for a couple more, decided there was a
chance they’d make the grade without it
and downed their share. By the time he
reached home the bottle was empty, but,
thanks to the new cure-all, the jumbucks
“wash makin’ outsh real good-oh.”
* * * ♦
“Gravelsnatcher”: Sou’-Westralia is
the habitat of an inch-and-a-half-long
piece of deviltry colloquially designated
sergeant-ant. It fights for the sheer love
of stoush, will take on any quantity of
flesh in any hide that ventures within
coo-ee of its nest, and its bite carries
an injection of an acuste-pain-creating
poison whose effects linger for days.
First met it on the edge of a swamp
and employed a mud-poultice to reduce
the pain to bearable proportions. My
next encounter was when I left a horse,
in a dray, standing near one of its nests.
When I next saw the horse the maddened
animal had shed dray and harness and
was endeavoring,
with imminent suc-
cess, to remove its
swollen hide. Since
then I’ve observed
the big cuss from a
respectful distance.
I’ve dropped a stone
near its nest and seen
it emerge, nippers at
the ready, and charge
a foe whose
strength and arma-
ment it had no means
of knowing. .I’ve seen
i t foraging an d
carting home logs
which may have been
used for timbering
drives, repairing fall-
aways, or were back-
logs for winter fires.
But I’ve never dis-
covered what it lives
on. Mice, perhaps.
It appears capable
of concerted action,
and half a dozen of
it could dispatch a
mouse in quick
time.
“Cowrie”: I re-
cently observed
something rare: a
bailer shell (Melo
cethiopicum ) laying
its eggs. It was on
the muddy, dead-
coral reef on the
edge of the Whit-
sunday Passage (Q-),
and the bailer
was a medium-
sized one. Each
egg, laid separately, was a bag of trans-
parent jelly about iin. in diameter, and
each was placed in position by the ovi-
positor, a tube of soft flesh about 4in.
long, through which the egg slides till
it reaches the tip. The first eggs were
laid and stuck to a small stone, evidently
to anchor them. First a ring of eggs
was formed, leaving about an inch space
in the centre ; then they were laid spirally
till the mass of eggs took the shape and
size of a small cucumber, with a hollow
passage down the centre. Each egg pro-
duces one little shell. Last year I found
an egg-cluster floating around with a
fully-formed shell in each egg-sac.
* * * *
“Ida D.”; I lived for five years in
Patagonia, and learnt all I could of
the animals and birds of the region, and
never heard of a possum, much less a
meat-eating one (B, 5/1 / ’49). A possum
presupposes trees, and thousands of
square miles of the country are bare of
timber, right up to the foothills of the
Andes. We hunted often, especially the
fur-bearing animals, and these, and the
edible pe-ches (a kind of armadillo-
roasted in its shell it tastes like pork),
were all ground-livers. The nutria and
a kind of otter, whose furs are very valu-
able, live in the larger streams. The so-
called “native cat” mentioned by “8.A.,”
and once prevalent along the eastern sea-
board of Australia, seems tu be extinct;
but it didn’t belong to the “cat family.”
* * * *
“Kilkennicat”: Who told “Stoopy” (B.
22/12/’4B) that snakes cannot travel
backwards? They can. And they can be
pulled out of their holes in one piece if
the pull is sudden. Pulling hard, after it
has had a chance to raise its scales, is just
about as sensible and useful as trying to
get a fish-hook out in reverse. A safer
way of killing them is to run over them
with a car, provided the brakes are
applied at the time. It is the skidding
which does the damage. This agrees with
the contention of a medico friend who
claims that most of the severe injuries of
pedestrians who are run down by cars are
due to the fact that the brakes are applied
at the wrong time. His advice was
“Next time you want to run over a man
slip her into neutral and roll over him.
Even if he does not thank you, I will.”
* * * *
“S.H.H.”: For weeks Peter and old
Jack had argued whether the creek they
fished 'regularly for bream ran to jewies,
and finally decided to try it out. That
night, fortified by many rums, they tried
it out. Peter baited up and cast rather
erratically into the darkness from the
creek bank. A few seconds later the line
ran, and Peter pulled and yelled for help
as a mighty splash sounded against the
opposite bank. Somewhat surprisingly it
showed little fight till it hit the bank,
where it promptly came ashore and
charged them. “Too damn’ drunk to
know what he was doin’,” said old Jack
in the pub next day. “Heaved the line
across the crick into Anderson’s pig-run
and lands a 4001 b. Tammy sow!”
* * ♦ ♦
“Blime”: Dick Rundell was one of
those provocative cows who could “never
understand a bloke bein’ put out over a
“Only a moment or two longer while I put the
finishing touches."
few skeeters” till we struck the big swamp
on the lower' Murray. We pitched a
couple of midget tents Dick had brought
along, and hadn’t long crawled into one
each when I began swiping mossies by
the fistful. An hour of it didn’t notice-
ably affect the supply, but as the threat
of inundation grew serious I got up to
shovel out a few of the dead’ns. It was
a still, moonlit night, and, glancing to-
wards Dick’s tent, I spotted him stand-
ing outside the flap looking in. He ap-
peared to be shoving at something. He
heaved, cussed a bit, then gave up and
lay down outside. “What y’ sleeping out
there for?” I yelled at him. “A few
skeeter-bites won’t hurt you.” “I know,”
he answered. “It ain’t that. Me own
fault, I s’pose. Y’ see, I come outside
f’r a while, an’ now hang me if I c’n
make enough room t’ get back in,”
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: Research into the
homing instincts of the Bass Strait
mutton-birds is being undertaken by the
C.S.I.R. because
of the alarming
depletion of birds
on the larger
Strait - island
rookeries where
they are taken
each year com-
mercially. The
work is being
carried out this
summer for the
second season at
a research station
on five - acre
Fisher Island, off
Lady Barron, by
Dr. D. L. Ser-
venty and two
assistants, and the
job involves more
hard physical
labor than is first
imagined. Each
night on arrival
at the rookeries
the birds are
counted, and
later many are
captured and
their taggings
put on last season
—examined. As
well, in daylight upwards of 300 birds
and eggs are inspected daily. Investiga-
tion this season has shown that almost all
the black-fliers, after a winter somewhere
unknown as yet in northern latitudes,
return to the same burrow-nests in which
they were caught last season and almost
always with the same mate. In no case
has any one bird shifted from one of the
island’s three rookeries to another. The
most important discovery is that no young
bird, born and tagged last season, has so
far returned to the island to breed, though
one youngster has been found dead. This
big question, as to whether these young
birds return to the island where they were
hatched or disperse to neighboring
rookeries, and the reason why the birds
migrate in their countless millions to
Bass Strait to breed, is not expected to be
solved inside a few years of research.
* * * *
“Vamac”: There is, of course, a
scientific explanation for the failure of
“Bo’s” fencer (B. 22/12/’4B) to put the
bullet fired through the holes of a line
of fence-posts into the hole of the end
post. Not only the bullet, but the
sound-waves from the explosion set out
with the spin imparted by the rifling. A
concentric cone of sound is set up, mov-
ing, with its radar echo, ever ahead of
the bullet and guiding it unerringly
through every hole but the last. Here
no echo comes from a succeeding post-
hole and the perfect balance is upset.
* * * »
“Kerin Paul”: The orchard was still
and steaming under a blazing sun. Flies,
mosquitoes and heat made work intoler-
able, afid we despaired of the next two
hours ever passing. Our hopes for a
second smoke-oh were futile against the
determination of Anderson, the ganger,
to get out another 60 cases before knock-
off. We picked on in silence till young
Graeme, in a rebellious undertone, in-
formed us of his plan. We watched as
he labored, with a full bag, to where the
ganger, under the shadiest tree, worked at
the portable packing-table. Leaning ex-
hausted against the table, he emptied the
bag, gasping for breath, eyelids drooping
with fatigue. Without a word he turned,
stumbled a few yards, and slumped to the
ground. But Anderson hadn’t been made
a ganger for nothing. Loud enough for
all to hear, he ordered his offsider to
“Throw a bag over him, Tom. It’ll keep
the flies off.” We toiled on to reach the
inevitable 60 cases.
* * * *
“5.C.0.J.”: Bill opened the bottle of
rum he’d bought at a N.Q. shanty pub.
After a swig at it Bill stopped the car,
dived into the tool-box for the battery-
tester, drew off some acid and mixed it
with his next snifter. “Gripes!” I said.
“Isn’t the stuff strong enough already?”
Bill looked at me hard. “Square up! ”he
said. “I’m tryin’ to break it down a bit! ”
* * » *
“Bo”: Harry the Biter was expected
at the main station with about 100
wethers, but no word was heard of him
for over a week. Then he showed up,
stubbled, haggard, with red-rimmed eyes ;
he had his horse and two foot-weary dogs,
but no sheep. The irate boss wanted to
know where his charges Were. Harry
wearily waved a hand covering a fair pro-
portion of the horizon to indicate their
exact location. The boss stormed and
kept on storming. “You’ve lost ’em!”
was the burden of his bitter complaint.
The repetition of this charge, plus the
effects of the hangover, at last got Harry
narked. “Shut up!” he roared at last.,
“Y’re on’y jumpin’ to conclusions, any-
way. How can they be lorst? They can’t
git past the fence on the Queensland
border, can they? They won’t swim the
Murray, will they? They ain’-t mugs
enough to dive into the Pacific and they
ain’t idiot enough to walk out towards
“Come back ! Ah've got the Wrong bonnet!"
the Centre and do a perish, are they?
So they still mus’ be in Noo South. So
what the hell are y’ worryin’ about?”
* * * •
“Wellpipe”: Apiarists in the Dalby
district, s.-w. Q’land, are awaiting with
interest the color of the finished product
of a colony of bees, which, on account of
prevailing dry conditions, did its nectar-
prospecting in unusual terrain. In the
satisfaction of a job well done, a selector
retired for the night, leaving his newly
lacquered utility in the shed behind the
homestead. Next morning he went in
pleasurable anticipation of beholding a
wheeled thing of beauty. What met his
eyes was the ute stripped of lacquer,
the nakedness resulting from the in-
dustry of the busy bees, who had seem-
ingly succumbed to the Hollywooden
urge of making every effort a techni-
color production.
* * * *
“Wonk”: Because of a slightly higher
branch somewhere on the far side of his
family-tree. Woolly considered himself
superior to the locals. His exaggerated
speech, with that of his imported wife,
were tolerated patiently enough, and in
their early years the Woolly children per-
force attended the local school. Then
came the time for the oldest to go to
college. Woolly decided that the family
would journey by car as far as the rail-
head, spend a cbuple of days in the
country town, then speed the boy on his
long train trip to the city. With the
youngster settled in the corner of a
first-class compartment, Mrs. W. drew
W. aside on the platform. “Algy’s pocket-
money, dear,” she reminded. “He had
some when we left home, but after these
days in town here he may be short.”
Woolly decided to check up. Entering
the train he strode with dignity to the
now-congested compartment, and bent
down. “And . . . er . . . how are you off
for money, my boy?” he whispered. “Oh,
not bad, Dad.” The kid paused thought-
fully, then in a loud stage-whisper: “I
can let you have a shilling.”
♦ * * *
“Sth. E.”: One of the team walked
across the shearing-shed to where the
old bloke was branding wool-bales.
“Where’s y’r grinding-papers?” he in-
quired. “Got to put a new one on the
disc.” As the boss drew the papers from
a box of supplies a couple of shearers
turned and eyed them critically. “Emery-
cloth!” they mourned in turn. “Why
don’t y’ get the twill-backed carborun-
dum? It’s miles better than that rub-
bish.” The old bloke explained his
ignorance of grinding-papers, and the
next season bought the variety men-
tioned. The new team scowled as they
noted the paper being put on the disc.
“That carborundum stuff, eh? Gripes,
it’s too flamin’ hard on the gear. Wears
it down too much. Pity y’ didn’t get the
plain emery-cloth.” Ordering supplies the
following season, the boss paused
thoughtfully. “Well, I dunno,” he told
the storeman. “Think the best thing’ll be
to take half of each sort, then some of
’em’s sure to be right.” This year, when
the expert went to grind, he eyed the pile
dubiously. “Aw, couldn’t you get all the
one kind?” he asked complainingly. ‘I
hate this messin’ around with two papers.
’Struth, anything’d be better than this
flamin’ mix-up ”
BULLOCKS.
Bullock and bullock’s brother,
I wonder what they think
Standing beside the pools
When they come down to drink.
I wonder what they say,
Brindle and black and brown,
Watching the lurching lorries
Taking the wool to town,
Bullock and bullock’s brother.
Bullock and bullock’s brother,
Dreaming of saltbush seas
Up to their very knees,
Pulling through sandy ridges,
Breasting the streams without bridges,
Hearing bush children playing
On top of the load as it’s swaying:
Is this what you say to each other,
Bullock and bullock’s brother?
QUEENSLAND.
PHYLLIS SCHLUTER.


ONE THING IS CERTAIN
When shearing is over and the last load moves away from the shed, do yon
know how much your wool will bring when the bidding starts?
One thing is certain. A.M.L.&F.’s wise valuing, careful lotting and attractive
display, combined with the expert and experienced service of the A.M.L.&F.
auctioneer, will draw the highest possible bid for your wool.
Small clip or large, consign it to A.M.L.&F., the organisation with 85 years of
wool-selling experience.
85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England in 1863.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 19.22
ghjk
The "MARS” Heavy Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian machine
shop. Gives performance equal to imported Radial
Drills costing THREE TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds
forward, 8 speeds reverse, 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS OF ACCURACY.
MARS MACHINE TOOL MFC. CO. PTY. LTD.
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE.
jlj
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert &
Co. Pty., Ltd. Vic.: Herbert Osborne, Engineer,
567-9 Little Bourke St. (near King St.),
Melbourne, C.l. S.A.: M. S. McLeod, Ltd.,
Adelaide. W.A.: The Western Machinery Co.,
Ltd., Perth. Tas.; Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart.
Calcutta: Boss Neil & Sons., Chowringhee
Ed. Bombay Province: E. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd-,
Fort Bombay. Madras, Mysore, Cochin and
Puddukkottai: Australasian Trading Co.
(India), Ltd. Hongkong and Shanghai: The
East Asiatic Co., Ltd.
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
IN Q’LAND OP
I
meehanite
IRONS
k,
delivery contai
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
t '° r
i)rf
Your choice la CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
sweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TOGRAZCOS"
Zebus for N.T.?
“Outback”: Observing that
British breeds of cattle did not
prosper in tropical and sub-
tropical climates unless there is
sufficient altitude to offset the
low latitude, F. H. Finch,
Estancia Garruchos, Argentina,
has suggested to A. M. Blain,
M.H.R., that a 50 p.c. increase
in Northern Territory beef pro-
duction could be achieved by the
use of Zebus. Australian by
birth. Finch has been working
cattle in South America for 40
years. In 1937 he persuaded his
principals to try crossing their
Herefords with Zebus, and in
1939 he visited the King Ranch,
Texas (U.S.A.), to see the result
of crossing Shorthorns and
Zebus.
The ranch has succeeded in
evolving an entirely new breed —
the Santa Gertrudis, three-
eighths Zebu and five-eighths
Shorthorn, which Finch des-
cribes as “really beautiful ani-
mals.” His company imported
Zebu cattle from Texas in 1942.
Since then two importations
have been made of Zebus from
Brazil. In 1945 25 hybrid steers,
aged 44 months, sent to a fat-
stock show averaged 12141 b.
liveweight, and, dressed, 58.75
per cent. The next year 20
hybrid steers, 56 months, aver-
aged 14061 b. liveweight, and the
crosses have continued to make
good weights and beat the pure-
bred British breeds.
Finch suggests that Australia
should send a competent ob-
server to Brazil and South
Africa to see what her competi-
tors are doing, and advocates
formation of an Australian com-
pany, with private and Govern-
ment capital, to buy land to
graze the stock necessary for
the formation of a big stud herd
and to buy Zebu stock from the
U.S.A. and female stock in
North Australia as dams for
future hybrids. Capital would
be needed for working expenses,
until sales began.
Manchester Method.
“T.W.”: A recent article in
“Elder’s Weekly” (W.A.) by a
grazier showed that three years
after treatment by the Man-
chester method 99 p.c. im-
munity resulted, the 1 p.c. be-
ing due to faulty application.
If done correctly 100 p.c. is
obtained. A caustic preparation
is applied after crutching, creat-
ing a bare patch l|in. over the
tail, 2in. around, and 3in. below
the vulva.
Apart from immunity to
strike, the value of the fleece is
increased, due to absence of
stained wool in that area. After
10 minutes’ discomfort treated
ewes graze freely and do well,
though a little stiff while the
,scab is forming. He did 600
hoggets carrying six-months
wool and inspected them in the
shed at 12-months wool; there
was no sign of a break in the
fleece, proving absence of dis-
comfort from the treatment, and
he asserts that the Manchester
method, if done correctly, is the
solution to the blowfly problem.
No further crutching is neces-
sary during the life of the sheep.
Where the Mules operation
merely minimises strike, the
Manchester method obviates it
completely.
Points; Don’t Manchester
ewes in the fly season. From
November to end of February
“ Don't ask me —I'm no botanist."
are safe months. Don’t treat
ewes, within two months of
mating or two months of lamb-
ing. Keep treated ewes under
observation for a few days till
the scab lifts and heals.
Linseed Offers Profit.
“He-ne”: Farmers in suitable
areas of the N.S.W. wheat belt
ought to give linseed growing a
try. Those growers who have
contracted with manufacturing
companies to produce linseed
during the past two seasons at
approximately £4O a ton or
world parity (whichever is the
greater) have every reason to
be satisfied.' Last season they
received about £B2 a ton or 41s.
a bushel. Although it is hard to
define exactly those N.S.W.
regions where linseed can be
grown profitably, it is considered
by agricultural authorities that
a fundamental requirement is
abundant soil moisture on which
to draw during the ripening
period.
For this reason linseed pro-
duction is best undertaken in
the regions of more abundant
rainfall or of cooler tempera-
tures and on soils of good
moisture-holding capacity.
Although little production of
commercial linseed has yet come
from irrigation, it seems that
many irrigation farmers on the
M.I.A. and in western N.S.W.
are losing an opportunity of pro-
ducing a profitable crop.
Profitable crops of linseed
could be obtained from the
more fertile soils on the N.S.W.
northern tabelands. Linseed
can be sown and harvested with
ordinary wheat machinery. The
Indian variety Punjab, which did
best under irrigation when in-
troduced about 10 years ago,
was susceptible to rust under
local conditions, and Walsh, a
rust-resistant U.S.A. variety, has
been found generally superior.
Pinnacle Wheat.
“Carlyle”: No fantastic claim
is made for Pinnacle, a com-
paratively new wheat developed
at Longerenong Agricultural
College in the Wimmera, but
superior milling quality and high
yield account for its increased
use by black-soil farmers. Re-
leased in 1946, it occupies 9.7
per cent, of Wimmera acreage
this season and is second only to
Diadem in popularity. A mid-
season variety developed from
Pindar, Pinnacle is similar in
appearance but taller than
Ghurka and is resistant to flag-
smut. Its yield over a test period
of six years is 30.4 bushels per
acre.
Other work of value done at
Longerenong deals with sheep
grazing on crops and fallow cul-
tivation. Sheep-grazing trials
reveal that although the average
yield is higher in dry seasons
when crops mature later and
benefit from spring rains, a re-
duced yield generally results
from grazing in crops. This is,
of course, offset by the value of
feed obtained. Fallow cultiva-
tion tests in force since 1927
emphasise the importance of
early fallowing in the Wimmera:
land prepared in winter yields
35.3 bushels per acre, whereas
only 25.4 b.p.a. results from
late-October fallow.
Hot Water.
“Thap”: Hot water on the
farm at the turn of a tap means
a lot more comfortable living,
but most systems are expensive
to instal and cost money to run.
Why haven’t the cheap, simple
solar heaters not become more
popular? They consist of a
heat-trap—a circuit of pipes in a
glass-topped box exposed to the
sun —and an insulated storage
tank. They cost little to erect
and go for ever with scarcely
any maintenance and no run-
ning costs. They arc fairly
common in California and
Hawaii, particularly in hotels
and apartment-houses, and there
are many in operation around
Cairns (N.Q.).
Surprisingly little sunshine is
needed to heat the water, and
provided the box is approxi-
mately at right-angles to the
sun’s rays winter sunshine is as
efficient as that of summer.
Properly - constructed heaters
with copper pipes will deliver
water at 180 deg. F., which has
to be broken down for a bath,
but does nicely for the washing-
up in the house or dairy.
Queensland Department of
Agriculture and Stock can pro-
vide details.
Poultry Nests.
“M.”: Money lost on some
farms as a result of inferior nests
would more than pay for better
ones. If comfortable and com-
modious, the birds will use nests
in the poultry-houses in prefer-
ence to self-made nests under
stables, in machinery or out in
the crop. For protection from
the weather, build them on the
partition waffs, and 2ft, from
the ground to save floor-space.
Keep them fairly dark and
secluded, sloping the roof steeply
to discourage roosting. Close
them at night for the same
reason. In community nests
allow 4ft. 6in. by 2ft. for every
50 birds and make them lOin,
deep to prevent the litter being
scratched out.
Pasture Experiments.
“Agric”: Although some old
hands hold that the seasons will
beat the Queensland - British
Food Corporation’s sorghum-
growing and pig-raising proposi-
tion in the Emerald district, N.
J. Rundle, of Glenora Downs,
has proved that pastures in that
district can be rejuvenated by
crop-growing and their former
carrying capacity be restored.
A few years ago Rundle de-
cided to stop the deterioration
in carrying - capacity of his
property. In early 1946 he be-
gan ploughing with a tractor
and 14-disc Sundercut. Three
months later *he harvested four
bags of kalo to the acre, and
in November, 1947, he took off
1350 bags of wheat, the yield
being up to 13 bags. Subse-
quent to feeding off the earlier
kalo crop a self-sown crop
yielded over two bags to the
acre and the residue was again
fed off by sheep. The crop
carried about four sheep to the
acre. In dry 1948 614 acres of
wheat, planted dry and with
only 4i inches of rain, yielded
204 bags and then carried 2500
wethers for five weeks. As the
country round about was
generally eaten out, this crop-
feeding was profitable. When
put on to it the wethers were
getting weak, but when taken
off they were strong and able
to battle along on a little pick-
ing produced by light storms.
Corriedale rams were joined
with Merino ewes in January,
and 55 p.c. lambs were marked.
Despite the drought the lambs
did well, better than Merinos in
similar circumstances, Rundle
has now secured another draft
of 20 Corriedale rams. In 1947
he started a herd of Large White
stud pigs, and he now has two
tractors breaking up new ground.
He intends to continue the work
until capacity is reached. Land-
men are watching the Queens-
land-British food- and pig-rais-
ing project, but to the end of
December insufficient rain had
fallen to warrant planting sorg-
hum in the prepared area.
Weed-killers.
“Repatriate”: I can recom-
mend these modern weed-killers
to those who want to get rid of
weeds without damaging lawns
or crops. Advantages of the
hormone type over the former
arsenical types are manifold: for
instance, hormohe weed-killers
are non - inflammable, non -
corrosive, non-poisonous. The
main advantage, however, is that
the new type is selective, is harm-
less to grasses and cereals and
sudden death to its selected
weeds.
Costs are not high, as 21b. of
hormone killer will cover an
acre of the heaviest weed-
covered land. It should be
sprayed on from a shoulder
knapsack, but in the small home
garden can be watered on with
a watering-can.
As the pituitary gland affects
the growth of the human body,
so plants may be thrown out
of balance by spraying hor-
mones on to the leaves. The
hormones are absorbed through
the pores of the leaves and
growth is accentuated for a
short while. The next stage is
a rapid distortion of the main
stems, followed by death of the
plant. Hormone killer will even
settle the hitherto impossible-to-
kill nut-grass after two or three
applications.
Growing Cucumbers.
“Cloudy”: Plant the seed in
tins, put ash at the bottom for
drainage, wet the soil before


Your
P°g
Look after yoor dog's health. Watch for
signs of digestive disorders such as list-
lessness, loss of appetite, dull, loose or
ragged coat or a warm nose. If you
notice any of these symptoms start him
on a course of Barko Condition Powders
immediately. A sick dog cannot be a
lively companion. As he regains his
health so wifi he recover his good spirits.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
Vi PER BOX AT ALL CHEMISTS
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose&Co.Pty.Ltd.KingSt.Sydney
*/£Fa»C*"
f/iam
,
/&*&*
NEEDS RELIABLE TRUCK SERVICE
Investigate Mow— international
TRUCK MAINTENANCE SERVICE . . .
... at ail International Harvester
Metropolitan Distributors, Country
Dealers and Company Branch Houses
I m
Cl
m
International Engineered Truck
Parts—
They fit more accurately,
wear better, last longer.
New improvements intro-
duced into current production.
Road transport by motor
truck, from city to country and
country to city, is vital to our trans-
portation services . . . Perishable
foods must move quickly to con-
sumers; regular supplies of raw
materials must be hauled from farms,
forests and mines to processing and
manufacturing centres . . . Strict time
schedules must be maintained . . ,
And this needs reliable truck main-
tenance service.
International Truck Maintenance
Service, regularly carried out,
lengthens truck life. It catches truck
troubles when they are little—pre-
vents major failures, enables trucks to operate better and speed
deliveries. It pays every way, on every trip. Take advantage
of it now. Give your trucks the best so they can give the best
to you. Give them International Truck Maintenance Service.
INTERNATIONAL. HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. IINC. IN VIC.)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. FACTORY I GEELONG
gfg
ĝd
rfg
Z
SPRAY
IRRIGATION
“RAIN WHEREVER IT IS WANTED."
Designed with one object—more efficient
irrigation at lower cost —only Rainbow Spray
Irrigation offers such vital Economy and Effi-
ciency features. Working under normal con-
ditions at 1 71b. pressure. Rainbow Spray covers
48ft.; the efficiency of the spray head makes it
possible to use 24ft. pipes where normally
I 7ft. 6in. pipes are used. Other features include
new combined outlet and hydrants, flexible leak-
proof couplings, and simple, sturdy stands. Re-
sult—one-third less work for the operator . . .
greater coverage . . . less maintenance . . . AND
a saving of 20 p.c. to 33 p.c. in initial cost.
Flexible Coupling:
Worked on ball and
ock e t principle.
Made of pressed steel.
Flexible in all direc
tions up to angles of
better than 25 p.c.
Quick action, post
tive lock.
IMPROVED SPRAY HEAD throws a
square spray. Used with 24ft. pipes gives 48ft.
coverage. Adjustable to four positions by screw
on top. Adjusting spanner supplied.
m
ill
The system with the 48ft. coverage —
RAINBOW
SPRAY IRRIGATION
83 Pitt Street, Sydney. ’Phone 83071.
Factory: Harris and Bowman Streets,
Sydney. ’Phone: MW 3011.
iiijii
otitis
m
mm
■ •
mmmM
ii
m
m
COMBINED OUTLET & HYDRANT;
New, and extremely simple—this combined
Rainbow outlet and hydrant offers a minimum
Obstruction in both outlet and main. Sella at
- price as an ordinary outlet!
NEW STANDS:
Sturdy angle iron . . .
welded construction.
Absence of cross-bars
in tall stands elimi-
nates interference to
growlnor vegetation.
Queensland: Waugh & Josephson Pty. Ltd., 102-124
Melbourne Street, South Brisbane.
Victoria: C. Beaumont, 44 King Street, Melbourne.
MU 5271.
South Australia: Ralph Curry, 24 Light Square, Adelaide.
’Phone: C 1065.
60/83.1
planting and afterwards cover
with mulch. In the early season
place glass over the top. Don’t
water for three or four days.
When the plants have their third
leaves they can be transplanted ;
but it is essential that the earth
around the roots remains undis-
turbed. Water immediately. The
trench should be in a sunny
position sheltered from severe
winds. The soil needs to be well
drained and not heavily ferti-
lised. Rotted manure may be
incorporated, fowl manure
should be used sparingly; two
parts of super, and one of blood-
and-bone, with a little potash, is
a safe artificial stimulant. Water
freely when the runners form.
Once the fruit set pinch back the
runners and be careful not to
overwater, otherwise the young
cucumbers drop off.
Cockchafers.
“Billjim”: The grub is a fre-
quent pest on improved pastures
and lawns, but immunity for
several years may be gained by
broadcasting each 1000 sq. ft.
area with 51b. of arsenate of
lead powder mixed with a bushel
of moist, screened sand or soil.
If rain falls soon after broad-
casting the effect will become
apparent quickly, as the arsenate
will be washed to the roots of
the grasses almost at once. If
rain does not fall soon after
topdressing water the poison in.
Mowing and watering may be
continued after treatment, but
fertilisers containing nitrate of
soda, superphosphate, sulphate
of potash or potassium chloride
should not be applied as they
react with the lead arsenate. To
maintain the full amount of lead
arsenate in the soil apply with
each topdressing at the rate of
|lb. to 11b. per 1000 sq. ft.
Don’t apply the lead to winter-
er meadow-grass.
Wormy Horses.
“Myrrhee”: Capricious appe-
tite, loss of condition with a
hollowing of the flanks, a rough
coat and an irregular bowel
movement are the most obvious
signs. Dose with phenothiazine,
either in the feed or mixed with
molasses. The * total dose
(equally divided and spread over
four days) is foz. to loz. for
draught-horses, according to
size, and ioz. to |oz. for year-
ling draughts and light horses.
Fast the patient overnight if the
dose is given in the feed, but if
in molasses no prior starvation
is necessary. Don’t select just
one horse from a mob for treat-
ment, but do all at the one time,
whether they look wormy or not.
Then spell for five days after
the last dose and run them in a
fresh paddock.
Orphan Pigs.
“Myrr”: For orphan pigs
choose the richest milk (Jersey
for preference), as a sow’s milk
is also rich in fat. Feed five or
six times a day until they’re
three or four weeks old, then
reduce to three feeds. Use a
bottle with a nipple for the
early feedings, but as they grow
teach the youngsters to take
their milk from a shallow dish.
Handle them gently and don’t
push the snout below the sur-
face. Provide a quart of whole-
milk per day for each pig and
see that they have access to
plenty of fresh drinking water.
Skim-milk can take the place of
whole-milk when the pigs ’ are
eating crushed grain.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”: Experiments by
Vic. Department of Agriculture
reveal that DDT suspensions
of 0.5 per cent, and over exeit
a better residual effect upon red-
mite infestation of poultry-pens
than tar oil.
“Urana”: In hot weather be
sure that the fowls have plenty
of water, fresh and unpolluted.
Change it twice daily if possible,
once for sure. Fowls do not like
water in which ducks have been
dabbling, and may go without
rather than drink it. Have the
trough in the shade. Hot water
is likely to bring on diarrhoea.
Fowls are reluctant to leave the
shade to go out for a drink and
do not have enough.
“B. Acre”: Clothing or
material on which there is fresh
paint will catch fire by spon-
taneous combustion tightly
rolled or packed.
“Sarina”: The best radish tor
home •or market is the White
Icicle, a pure-white, long radish
that grows surprisingly thick
without becoming hollow or
stringy. A good bunch of them
is rarely beaten at a vegetable
show. The soil should be deep
and rich, preferably improved
with stable-manure a few
months before seeding. The
radish needs constant watering.
“Nubis”: If you are tiling
any buildings it is worth While
to buy a dozen or so extra tiles;
at time of construction. Sizes
of tiles are not standardised and
you may have trouble later in
getting the right size. If you
already have broken tiles and
cannot immediately get the cor-
rect replacements, change them
with good tiles from the eaves.
The change is easy to make, but
be careful to walk on the bottom
edge of the tiles, where they are
supported by the cross-members.
“Maley”: Three or four
inches of horse- or cow-manure
is not too much to spread on
beds for lettuce, tomato, cab-
bage, cauli, rhubarb and aspara-
gus. These crops do well where
beans or peas have been grown,
because of their nitrogen re-
quirements.
“Homo”: Apart from the in-
jury done to land by sheet and
gully erosion there ‘is the dam-
age done by silting up of water-
holes and dams, rivers, etc. A
community plant for contour
banking should be provided in
every district, but much indi-
vidual work can be done, by
blocking gullies and planting
trees along their course, by mak-
ing silt traps and by diverting
floodwaters by means of drains
and embankments.
“Ben Acre”: To prevent
movement and continued wear
on worn spoke-ends of wooden
car-wheels, fill round them with
lead. First tighten the wheel by
wedging the spokes out from
the hub and packing between
them with pieces of flat iron.
Then pour molten lead, very
hot, into the felloe-holes. Any
space around the hub should be
filled in the same way.
“Sarina”: Arrowroot and
artichokes are handy root crops
for pigs. The arrowroot likes a
warm climate, and will yield
large tonnages of tubers per acre
in Queensland. The artichoke
—a species of sunflower —is
even more hardy and a heavy
cropper. The tubers will not
keep well, however, so must be
removed a few at a time as
needed. The soil should be well
worked before planting either
crop, and be fairly rich in nitro-
gen and potash. Pigs may be
run on the area to dig the roots
for themselves.
“W. Court”: Docking the
tails of fox-terrier pups should
be done as early as possible.
Bleeding may be severe enough
to kill some of the pups if cutting
is delayed. The pups should
also be de-wormed before being
sold,
“Bill C.”: Inbreeding of
ducks and geese soon shows in
crooked limbs and similar un-
desirable characteristics. The
progeny should be marketed,
not kept for breeding purposes.
The original ducks and drake or
geese and gander should be re-
tained for breeding, when there
can be no inbreeding. Geese
will lay and breed for a good
many years. Ducks do not last
so long. When they lay few
eggs and become almost chronic
sitters, a change to new stock is
overdue, and it may be as well
to get a new drake, too,
“Myrrhee”: If crated birds
are crowded in hot weather
losses are certain. When con-
signing poultry to market never
crate or dispatch them in hot
weather ; allow sufficient space
for the birds to travel in com-
fort ; place water in the crates
and arrange for its replacement
en route; never leave crated
poultry in the sun; crate and
consign as near as possible to
the starting time of train or
transport.
“Mr.”; A heavy setting re-
sults in a lot of small- to
medium-sized pumpkins rather
than a few oversized fruits.
When the main runner is about
4ft. long nip off the growing tip
and remove weak growth that’s
not flowering. This stimulates
growth of laterals on which
most of the female fruiting
flowers are borne. Keep the
plants well watered and fertilise
the female flowers by touching
the centre portion (stigma) with
the pollen-bearing stamen of the
male flower.. Each stamen
carries enough pollen for several
female flowers. Squash,
marrows and melons are treated
the same way.
“Will C”: When sowing
melon, cucumber or pumpkin
seed during warm weather scatter
some seed corn or grain
sorghum between the hills. The
grain will grow quickly and
shade the slower-growing vines
and fruit from the heat.


The RIM
BY
GEOFF BINGHAM
RUNNING out of a dream, or in a
dream, running ; the swift flashing
strides that take you towards in-
v evitable doom. So does a man
hurry to his death, gloriously, as the
scribes say, for their fearful imaginations
reckon man’s destiny as no less wonderful,
and the power of his doom majestic.
And yet in a soldier running there is no
conscious thought of glory or power or
dominion, or world without end, for that
matter, because the trained mind has
accepted the minor responsibility of
death, and the major fact of courageous
living, although, God knows, there are
many types of courage.
This type, for example—the terrific up-
surge of joy, an Olympian grasp of power,
heady and dangerous as the wine of the
gods; and with a sacrificial tendency.
So we ran; so they ran; so I ran. And
the lips of all of us that had been stopped
with the strong realisation of impending
doom were suddenly unsealed, so that we
babbled and shouted and some of us
sang. We ran to the enemy shouting as
though we believed the words we uttered.
In the lives of all men there is a desire
for greatness, whatever form it may take,
and if the chances of greatness are rare,
they are greedily snatched at when the
time arrives, and so it is, or was, with us —
the fighting soldiers. As in the same
dream we see what we shall never see
again: a thought to carry us through the
years which never again will be as bril-
liant or filled with the same solitary pur-
pose that makes life at least comprehen-
sible. Or as a poet of ours says, “You
shall know what you know, and that will
be your reward.”
AS we ran there was havoc about us,
the havoc of war which is a back-
ground, and which fearfully bppresses the
mind, weighs it down with perpetual
questioning. Back in the native kam-
pongs, and back in the big city itself,
crouched, smoking Singapore, there is
wonder as every bomb drops whistling
and every shell shrieks doom to flesh. If
these are words of power, then even more
are the thoughts powerful, for with all.
everywhere, is life loved and death hated,
except in those strange moments which
come to man and for ever lift him from
the ruck and the rut. It is for others to
argue whether it is worth while when all
is said and done.
So we ran towards the Japs, and their
guns sang, a yammering, rising, falling
sort of song that has never died away,
and the singing guns had deadly beauty,
as the men who ran and died seemed to
have beauty, whereas in ordinary life they
were hated as well as
loved, despised as well as
adored, merely tolerated
by some and really ad-
mired by few. Certainly
not as we admire them
now at the setting of the
sun and in the dark-blue
husk of early night. Nor
do the hymns we sing have
much to do with them, but
there was something un-
forgettable in their hurried
rush to death.
The gun near to us
seemed like a challenge,
not of hot steel, not of im-
personal menace, but a
challenge of intense per-
sonality, clothed with that in our minds,
doubtless, but as real as anything living,
for indeed it seems to live. I hated it as
I have never hated an animate being, or
life itself, and with the others was deter-
mined to get it. So we ran, and for the
first time found that time did not exist—
not, anyway, in the ticking seconds or the
prolonged minutes; but time was like
Wind falling through a valley, or rushing
through a cavern; it was the gentle sun
over fields, mild for the moment, stayed
in the air.
Time, then, was every thought recol-
lected as though man were gathering
about him, with dignity, the clothes of
his thoughts, the garments of his entire
recollections. He was girded With dignity.
co - ordinated any measure
hitherto known. So he rushed at death,
or the gun, or the other enemy soldiers
with the conviction that his destiny in
that moment was godlike.
What then, if in other years he should
see this as splendid lie, as falsehood now
proven, as not worth the candle, as irre-
vocably wrong? For the moment it was
altogether true, so true that today’s doubt
fights against revised certainty.
Yet the gun was impervious to threat,
insensible to the charge, without fear and
undefeatable because it could not die. Its
song might cease in its throat, but the
famous moments of that charge might
never be recalled —the dead men uprising
into life and the shadow of breath
indrawn into the nostrils. Yet we charged
it, and with the rest gloried in what may
seem an idiocy of the gods.
THEN, the gun wounded. I felt a fury
of shock, the left leg buckled and I
plunged to the ground. The sustained
glory of the moments before, on the
waves of which fear rode faintly, was
suddenly ended. The wind in the valley
rushed on and was no more heard, and
the glory of the sun in the light air was
stopped, and the old reality was there —
a wounded man on a smooth black road,
a leg smashed, blood running, and the
cries and sounds of war again about the
ears. The threatening drone of a plane ;
the explosion of mortars, the incessant
shrill shells.
These words as thoughts are hated in
peace, whether rightly or wrongly is not
easily decided, but hated they are, for
one thought is that another’s courage is
to be hated, his experience to be con-
sidered a threat to the vanity of those
who have not fought, and yet that is
wrong, for all is not vanity with humanity,,
notwithstanding the ancient. Vanity dies
when true pity or sorrow entefs, for that
is the lesson of pain.
Pain is personal, and yet a man in pain
believes it is a thing, a living experience
parasitic on the body, challenging every
thought. Thought, too, seems to be a
battle, a struggle upwards to regain
normality, as though this battle is unfair,
pain having the inescapable hold. Yet in
that moment it was not to measure pain
against the experience of charging, and
find on what side and in what direction
the scales were weighted, but to see your
leg twisted beneath you as though another
being almost, which has become dislodged
from the extraordinary person which was
formerly you.
AS I lay there, there was no more run-
ning, no more men dying, none fight-
ing, and the hated gun had
to be silenced, its threat
stuffed back into its flam-
ing throat. Yet the
damage had been done,
not only to the leg, but
to all the men who lay,
and all were dead there
except those, possibly, in
cover. And if other noises
still raged, and earth was
churned with mortars and
exploding shell, there was
also a strange silence
which meant to me that
life was withdrawn, not
from the body but from
round about. Easy to
wonder if the dead men
were already risen, clothed in spirit, and
looking down on me ; but when I lay, not
daring to twitch for fear a Japanese bullet
might find me, I saw a sniper in a tree.
His face half-hidden in the leaves must
have been watching me for movement.
Yet, I thought angrily, what would I
matter now with a leg smashed? If the
enemy came through they would bayonet
me, that being their terrible sort of mercy.
If I moved I would be shot, if I did not
move the blood would flow, and that
would be another to join his comrades,
the gathering roll of dead who have never
been understood.
Yet the sniper did not move, either, as
though for a few moments his thoughts
were mine ; as though in spite of language
differences we knew the same words.
If he were motionless, so was I. If he
strained not to twitch, then I was as the
other dead me,n. The rifle had fallen
along my body with me, and its small
muzzle pointed at my head, so that it
would not have been a great effort to
raise the rifle and fire. Yet it would have
been dangerous, for one slight movement
would have brought a bullet, although,
too, I might have managed a first shot,
but then vengeance was not a thought
now, for had we not invited death as
they also, in a way, had asked for it?
Nor was it a survival of the fittest or
the unfittest, for in these moments even
crippled man gains a stature which is
beyond meanness. No, there is no easy
explanation of why a man should think
to shoot at that moment.
Then I thought he would surely get
me, and if he did not, then his fellow-
soldiers would, so it would be best to end
my own life, denying a certain satisfac-
tion to the sniper whilst I would be out
of the reach of torture. But to fail to
shoot myself properly might bring greater
agony, and would be foolish. There might
never be an end to the terrible seething
of pain, and better then to do nothing, for
as people say at some time or another,
“While there’s life there’s hope.”
And there are dreams as well as hope,
dreams of recuperating, dreams of kindly
nursing, and of basking
in a kind of heroic
convalescence, very
comfortable to think
about; of the relief of
shedding a tremendous
burden. These are the
dreams, and if the voice
that says “Thou shalt
not kill” is strong, the
dreams are stronger.
V/'ET the little sniper
I remained motionless, an almost in-
different spectator to these thoughts. It
was as though his arms were folded and
he were waiting patiently until all reason-
ing had reached its conclusion and it was
again time for action, time to suddenly
shoot me, and so start one upon the busi-
ness of whatever is beyond death, that
which is woven irrevocably with the
fabric of life, I could not bring myself
to hate him, because it was his business
to be a sniper, just as I had made fighting
my business.
If he had the upper hand, then that
was fair enough in war, and in any case
he did not necessarily have the upper
hand. If I had been able to banish my
pain, fight against that hot flood of
agony, and in normal manner lift my
rifle I could have killed him with the same
amount of opportunity. Of course he
had the advantage of having his face
leaf-hidden, and I would not be able to
read his thoughts, nor even watch some
of his movements, especially the hand
that gripped the rifle.
The rifle was not aimed at me, but
pointed near me, and could easily be
moved. How was I to know, anyway,
that the rifle which I held in my left
hand might not be too heavy for me, the
strength having flowed out with that thick
blood seeping down the road? Yet my
brain was clearer than ever before.
The thoughts came in a constant rush
as though the loss of blood actually
stimulated them. It was as though, too,
there was a power left over from the
amazing experience of running and charg-
ing, to remain co-ordinate, as though I
had lost that wretched sense, present in
most of humanity, of never knowing why
we live, and move, and have our being.
No, I was quite clear in thought, relieved
of actual worry for my life and respon-
sibility for others. At last I had handed
over, as it were, to the reasoning of the
brain, and it in its turn had a calm
acceptance of the situation.
So that I can say I was not fearful of
the sniper, nor yet had I that sort of
hopeless fatalism, familiar enough in
danger, that what would be would be.
I almost felt than that I would defeat
the sniper, either by my death or, per-
haps, his, and I did not know then how
close I was to the truth.
The sniper was by no means insigni-
ficant, but the thought of death was. Nor
did death have an anesthesia which pre-
pared me for leaving the body, for I had
no desire to leave it, any more than I
feared to live.
Instead, the very agony in the leg made
me take in detail all about me —the
smashed bracken, grey with dust upthrust
by bursting shells and mortars; the
wheeling planes above seeking out posi-
tions to bomb ; the valley which dropped
away from the road, some of its bracken
still green, some of it gold, but every-
where the ground gouged and tom; the
sunken figures of the killed almost hidden
by the tangle of fern and grass and soil;
the tall jungle giants towering above the
sedate rubber-trees, in one of which was
the watching sniper.
Then the gold and grey of the bracken,
the pure blue of the sky, the color of
the trees and sun were gradually blotted
out as the thought gave way to swirling
greyness, a new silent world pivoting, it
seemed, on the; very pupil of the eye.
Then the grey closing in until it reached
the pupil-point, needle-fineness, and
quickly thought and sight were inverted,
and everything became nothing, yet no-
thing continued, to be something as
though the thought of life and death and
the sniper were not far away, a being
still existent, carrying on a greater and
more powerful struggle than before.
WHEN I came to, Gerry was beside
me. Gerry had run with us, but had
dropped behind info a drain. His com-
monsense was greater than our foolish,
or splendid, courage. To us the moment
had been desperate, needing desperate
measure, but to him the moment was
never that way, and life would always
be ahead, and other times when, pos-
sibly, desperate action might be war-
ranted. He had not died
like Larry and Ted and
the others. Here he was
alive, much more alive
than I.
Then I remembered
the sniper. It suddenly
became wrong for that
sniper to be looking at
us. Nor did I feel very
philosophical about
death. Gerry had
brought me back
vividly to the life which I purposed
to hold, to which, anyway, I had
returned, as a man does who walks
along the rim, the very border of death,
who stares, even, with mild eyes, into
the valley below.
“There’s a sniper in that tree, Gerry,”
I said urgently, and I dared not even
point.
Gerry was alarmed, but in an instant
the alarm had died. “Over there, eh?”
he asked, and he pointed to the tree
where the sniper was: where he had been,
for the sniper was no longer there. __
“You shot him, Gerry?” I asked. It
did not seem to matter because the past
was already becoming unreal, more un-
real than ever it would be in retro-
spect.
“No,” he said, shaking his head. “I’ve
been watching him. He’s been dead all
the time. Then he fell out of the
tree.”
I DID not want to sit up because of
the leg, but for a moment I was able
to raise myself enough to stare across
at the dead sniper, lying at the foot of
the rubber-tree. He seemed stiff on the
ground, his face set, and his eyes prob-
ably staring up at heaven. I could not
see his eyes, but I did not care then
whether he looked silly or dignified in
death. Nor was I relieved.
“You thought he’d got you, eh?” said
Gerry solemnly. He lowered me
slowly.
To me it was like a story unended, and
yet I could not get it out of my mind
that he had understood my thoughts as
I lay there, that his eyes had been watch-
ing mine, which, of course, they could
not have done. Nor do I mean by that
that there was some mysterious secret,
half-revealed to me, of what the senses
may accomplish even when death has
come. I looked up at Gerry, grateful
at least that my dreams would now come
true, but at the same moment there was
an overpowering wistfulness, as though,
almost, I had lost something, as though,
as I said, it was like a story not quite
ended.


FINEST INTERIOR
WATER PAINT
Maisone is a noteworthy water paint,
oil-bound for durability.
Maisone colours have been chosen with
the greatest care so that they will
give the utmost in distinction and at
the same time blend it with
practically any type of
furnishing scheme,
f gallon makes gallons of paint
preharmonised c
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institution throughout Australia
JACKSON
05UUJVAN
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPH IC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
' ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
**JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
a
GEM
Mo*
DOUBLE LIFE
BLADES
% st w"!
It stands to reason that the sturdy, heavy
weight Gem Blade of surgical steel will
take a keener edge and give double the
number of shaves you would get from a
wafer.
&
v 5
Gem blades ate super
keen for super shaving.
Make every morning a
good morning with Gem.
AVOID S O'CLOCK
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
the No. I Drink
for wise men
“Bride given away to Viscount
Bruce,” — Melbourne “Argus.”
Leave it to Stanley Melbourne
to decline the honor with the
most correct savoir faire.
4* 4* 4*
“I wouldn’t beg for a penny. Now
if you had said two bob or half a
dollar^—well! ”
—Defendant on begging charge.
He always gave coppers a
wide berth.
4* 4* 4*
“Concluding lectures were ‘Mas-
culine and feminine physiology in
women.’ ” —“ Advocate ” (Tas .).
Seems like doubling up on the
idea of man’s “better half.”
4* 4* 4*
“The Sydney waterfront began the
New Year with a shortage of 2600
wharflaborers.”
That’s our wharfies all over
—continually slinging jobs and
taking their hooks!
4* 4 f 4
Angels’ Visit.
“Our diplomats need a few tips
on the courtesy foreign visitors ex-
pect.”—Sydney “D.T.”
Suggestions on civility.
From friendly words to kindly
pats
Upon the back, I’ll tender free —
But, show me first our diplo-
mats !
P. O. M. C.
“For sale: Two pair football boats,
size 6,7, 10s.; 12s. 6d. almost new.”
—Suburban paper.
Ideal for punting.
4* 4* 4*
“Lady required, 3.30 to 7.30 daily,
to cook and clean up Dinner for her-
self.” — Suburban paper.
Personal satisfaction essential.
4* 4*
“The U.S. Forestry Service gravely
announced that a grizzly bear had
broken into a cabin, sneaked off with
a hunting knife, an axe and a box
of cartridges.”
It sounds like a Russian bear.
4* 4* 4*
“Two girl friends require furnished
flat, two single or one d.-bedroom.
Willing share flat with owner.”
—Suburban paper.
Accommodating, if not ac-
commodated.
4* 4* 4*
“Returning from a party, he drank
liquid soap from a bottle, thinking
it was wine.” — Sydney “Sun.”
It was an absolute washout.
4* 4* 4*
“Bachelor requires laundress.”
—Suburban paper.
He might still press his suit.
The Last Act.
“The Prime Minister went on a
fortnight’s holiday with a box of
books, including Wild Colonial Boys
and The Final Curtain /’
—Sydney “D.T.”
Complete with box of books and
pipe
And, after many sessions, ripe
For rest down by Tasmanian
seas
Amidst the whispers of the trees
Our careworn leader takes his
spell.
To take a host of books is well,
And may he find delight in
thrillers
In scenes that once knew thieves
and killers,
But surely he might well peruse
Some daily papers for their news
And not in every case resort
To ignorance of a report.
If short of time this much is
certain,
He well could leave “The Final
Curtain”
This book may well await in-
spection
Till after, say, the next election.
D. H. E.
Left Standing.
“He reported to police that some-
one had stacked all his furniture by
the front steps, stolen the house.”
—Sydney ”Sunday Telegraph.”
A man may do his cash at cards
Or lose a fortune on the horses
And yet, if we believe the bards,
Draw courage still from
mental sources.
Or he may find his little wife
Absconding with a low-down
lover
And, far from losing zest for
life,
In next to no time he’ll re-
cover.
But though no loss or faithless
spouse
Can play the deuce with his
sensations
To find that thieves have pinched
his house
Will rock a man to his foun-
dations.
BERT.
A Long-felt Want.
“Is it your ambition to become
a career diplomat, a Sydney
tram-conductor or a wharf -
laborer ?
“Do you want to know how
to become a ‘Yes’-man to Dr.
Evatt, to balance on, eight inches
of board in a gale without using
your hands, to learn how to
sleep standing up?
“If it is, and you do, then don't
delay—join the tutorial classes,
of the Cadwallader Career Col-
lege!
“Enrolment of classes for
these careers is now being re-
ceived, and the first term of the
year commences shortly. Don’t
miss this unparalleled opportu-
nity to fit yourself for one
of these billets.
“We have been fortunate in
securing as professor of the
tramway classes an ex-troub.
who has been swept off the foot-
boards no fewer than seven
times, has had double-pneu-
monia three times and had be-
come so acrobatically expert be-
fore he retired from the transport
service to take over these classes
that with nothing but the wind
to lean against he was able to
roll a smoke with one hand,
hand punched ticket and almost-
correct change to a passenger,
while he executed the latest
“ Programme, sir ?"
dance-steps on the narrow foot-
board of his speeding tram. ,
“This expert will teach you
how in cyclonic weather to
empty all the rainwater out of
your bag without spilling the
money on the roadway and how
to wring all the tickets out with-
out disturbing the numerical
sequences ; how to prevent mal-
de-mer while heaving along in
peak-hours on an 1892-model
‘jumping-jack’ car. You will
also be given special tuition in
lightning calculation to enable
you to catch up with all the fare-
rises that are expected in the
coming financial year so as to
keep the deficit below £2 million.
“Special field exercises under
the guidance of an ex-Army
commando will not only enable
you to hold your own with the
270 passengers clinging to the
80-passenger car in the 5.30 p.m.
rush, but even give you a rough
chance, if you are allotted a
corridor-type tram, of even fight-
ing your way from the front to
the back before the journey is
completed. Study of the phy-
siognomic characteristics o f
boys of ‘just under fourteen’
who have been shaving at least
five years to determine if they
are really under seventeen will
prove of great bentfit.
“Other features of the curricu-
lum will include how to recog-
nise a member of the depart-
ment’s ‘Kelly Gang’ from three
blocks away ; an advanced class
will give you hints which will be
invaluable should your duties,
when you climb higher, include
the arranging of changeovers of
passengers in mid-journey from
one tram to another; without
these you would be unable to
cause the maximum delay and
inconvenience in which the de-
partment takes such a pride.
“For those who hope to join
the External Affairs Department
a special class will demonstrate
how best the recruit can reach
top diplomatic status so that he
may assist Dr. Evatt in embar-
rassing British and American
delegates, launching verbal
attacks on our only white
Pacific neighbors and giving all
assistance short of war to Jap-
collaborator-leaders of Cbmmo-
run Asiatic countries who expect
eventually to take over Aus-
tralia.
“A high member of the Aus-
tralian Communist party has
been engaged to drill prospective
candidates for diplomatic honors
in anti-British propaganda and
anti-White Australia propa-
ganda. Too often the impres-
sion has been gained that you
can qualify for top-ranking
diplomatic posts only after years
of service. This is entirely erro-
neous. Provided that you are
sufficiently critical of all things
British, there is no reason
why you shouldn’t perform
valuable personal publicity ser-
vice for Dr. Evatt even though
you are only a temporary public
servant. Remember, you will
get nowhere in the Diplomatic
Service unless you are willing to
sneer at the Democracies
and refrain from denouncing
diplomatic manoeuvres by the
Soviet and its satellites. This
will be taught assiduously.
Part of the course will include
how, on diplomatic missions
abroad, to resist any temptation
to spend only £lOOO when you
can spend £2OOO. Another aspect
of the course will concentrate
on the discipline necessary to
carry out without question any
Foreign Policy order which the
Waterside Workers’ Federation
gives to you through Dr. Evatt.
“The classes for potential
wharflaborers are necessarily
complementary to those for
prospective Career Diplomats.
Tuition will be given in such
fundamentals as loafing, the
most important aspect of a
wharfie’s function ; selecting the
best places in ship or on wharf
in which to play poker undis-
turbed in working hours; union
methods necessary to force the
Government to appoint a Com-
munist member of the union exe-
cutive to the Stevedoring Indus-
try Commission; meteorological
study to enable prospective
workers to recognise clouds on
the horizon, the appearance of
which is the sign to knock off
for the day. But by far the
most important phase of the
tuition will involve the deter-
mining, should you reach execu-
tive position in the union, of
Australia’s foreign policy in
harmony with the dictates of
the Kremlin,
“So don’t delay ! Join now !”
BO.
Trigger-happy.
“A kiss, says Dr. Leberman, is a
loaded gun that should be handled
with respect and care.” —“New Idea.”
If kisses fill the veins with fire
And rouse the pulse of fierce
desire
Shall man then cease to osculate
Lest he should share the doubt-
ful fate
Of those unfortunates who dally
With love, and add to Cupid’s
tally ?
Should sweet romance be thrust
away
And never see the light of day
While sober conduct is preferred
To passions by fair lips be-
stirred ?
Ah! Surely not, for quite apart
From dictates of the eager heart
It’s safer to enjoy your fun,
For who dare drop a loaded
gun?
ED.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed/first is paid
4i|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Truck-driver!s Report
For the past 18 months I have been
running a one-man carrying business in
Sydney, It is interesting work, fairly
strenuous at times, only allowing a
smallish profit margin when the high rate
of vehicle maintenance and operation is
taken into account, but it is an open-air
life and one gets around a good deal.
Most of my work is of a special-delivery
nature, with only a few regular contracts.
The nature of the loading is very varied.
This work gives an opportunity to see
behind the scenes. For instance, I know
that a considerable quantity of bottled
beer is sold from the back doors of hotels
and liquor stores for delivery to night-
clubs at a blackmarket price. Despite
denials by the U.L.V.A. that such trading
ever goes on, I and a couple of dozen
other carriers cart the stuff and often
handle the cash when taking delivery.
Sometimes I doubt whether private
enterprise is half as efficient as it claims
to be. A customer phones asking me to
call at a big city store to pick up a roll
of linoleum. Having been caught before,
I usually reply “Would you please ring
the firm asking them to have it ready for
me when I call?” I get an assurance that
the firm has promised to have it ready,
and am told to see Mr. Floor about it.
When I call some time later I find that
Mr. Floor has gone to afternoon-tea.
After cooling my heels until he appears
I find that my customer’s lino, has been
sold to someone else, and I have to wait
until a similar piece is cut from another
roll. By this time I have wasted nearly an
hour on this little job, and as I have to
take time into consideration when making
my charge for cartage I know that there
will be lifted eyebrows when I charge
about 12s. for delivery. Quite pos-
sibly the store has given me the wrong
piece of lino, at that. And if the stord
has not a delivery-yard and I have had to
park in the street while waiting, there will
be a “Please explain” from the traffic-
police.
By contrast, delivery of a load of
parcels to the Chief Parcels Office of the
G.P.O. is normally a swift job, capably
handled by the not-overpaid staff. The
Railway Parcels Office is fairly efficient,
except in peak hours, when lack of yard-
space and handling facilities creates a
bottleneck. My chief grouch against the
railways is not the way they handle the
goods, but that they do not give sufficient
advice about methods of consignment.
When you know your way around the
railway-yards you can pick up or consign
goods fairly quickly if you have correct
consignment dockets. If you are a
stranger you will waste a good deal of
time, and you will find that information
is grudgingly given. Taken all round it
is honest comment to say that Govern-
ment enterprises, with the possible ex-
ception of T.A.A., are more efficient than
many private firms.
Turning to the problems of traffic and
parking, a truck-driver has different views
from the private motorist. He is all on
the side of the parking-police when he
finds that because private cars have been
parked in front of a store into which he
has to carry a number of weighty articles
he has to make a carry of 30 yards or
more on a hot day, while he imagines
that the car-owners are in the corner pub.
He knows that if the parking blokes didn’t
keep private motorists on the move his
work would be twice as hard. He also
knows that a lot of traffic congestion is
caused not so much by the number of
vehicles as by the very poor loading
facilities of many firms in the heart of the
city.
When a five-ton lorry has to back
into a loading dock originally designed to
accommodate a horse-drawn dray, traffic
is held up all along the street. Proof of
this can be found tenfold if you try to
drive along Sussex-street at about 11 a.m.,
when dozens of heavy goods vehicles are
trying to manoeuvre into narrow loading-
ways. And I doubt if you can find one
warehouse in the length of the street
which is properly planned to handle
goods quickly. As all the warehouses
would have to be redesigned to eliminate
these hold-ups the best solution would be
to encourage the warehouses to move to
less congested'areas served by fast roads
At present you could drive to Alexandria
and use less petrol than is consumed in
crawling along Sussex-street from King-
street to Hay-street.
The municipal markets were also de-
signed for horse-drawn traffic, not 10-ton
semi-trailers. In short, while new traffic
routes will help to ease hold-ups by divert-
ing traffic, there will still be a lot of bottle-
necks until goods-loading facilities are im-
proved.
An immediate easing of goods-traffic
could be made if loading hours were
altered. At present most firms will only
load or unload for a few hours in the
middle of the day—if early-morning
loading could be arranged there would be
less congestion. But that’s all tied up with
the 40-hour week. — Skipper (N.S.W.).
Basic English
If the thousands of polyglot migrants
being poured into our social crucible are
to be absorbed without disturbing the
original elements a suitable catalyst must
be found. Basic English could enable the
“foreign bodies” to fuse and form a valu-
able alloy rapidly and without explosive
results.
The vocabulary of 850 words can easily
be memorised and understood. It has none
of the crudities of “pidgin.” It has no
alien sounds to shock the native ear or
mark the student as an outsider. The new
lexicon is actually wider in its scope than
the everyday language of the average
citizen. Though Biblical in its simplicity,
it is perfectly designed to convey rather
than to conceal thought. It calls a spade
a spade. It can be precise or eloquent,
but never obscure.
In one sense Basic English is merely
"He WILL!"
a foundation for an elaborate structure.
In another sense it is a revised and ex-
purgated edition of a ponderous diction-
ary in which the volume has been reduced
to one page by the removal of redundant
verbiage and the retention of only such
words as are used by plain people who
wish to make their meaning clear.
If every foreigner were equipped with
the brief glossary and the simple rules
he soon would be able to take his place
amongst us, not as a stammering stranger
in a strange land, but as a friend and
fellow-worker in a welcoming and hos-
pitable Commonwealth. — Sesame (S.A.).
Passing of Country Towns
“Hist” is a little wide of the mark when
he claims that poor rail-transport is a
major cause of both the drift from the
country towns and their failure to attract
an increasing population (B. 29/12/’4B).
Even on main lines where good rail ser-
vices still exist (in some places two and
three passenger-trains to and from the
city daily) the drift is going on at the same
rate as in the small towns served by two
or three trains a week.
Many small tradesmen in the country
complain 'about modern road-transport.
In the days of the horse and buggy, they
claim, people seldom went past their own
little town to do their shopping. Small
country businesses thrived because of
their isolation. Nowadays the same
people, or their families, will hop into a
car or passenger bus and whiz away
to the nearest city or big town to spend
their money.
One of the biggest drawbacks to most
country towns is housing—or, rather, the
quality of the existing homes and their
lack of conveniences. There are far too
many poor-type homes to make life in
a small town attractive. If these dwellings
could be collected together they would
present a sight that would appal some of
our slum-reformers. Scattered as they
are throughout the country they escape
notice. Many have no running water and
no baths, and good drinking-water be-
comes scarce in summer. There is no
electricity or gas, and sanitation is bad.
It would take something better than this
type of home to entice people away from
even the slum areas of a city.
When strikes are on, city newspapers
print photographs of women doing their
cooking over an open fire because gas
and electricity have been drastically
rationed or carrying their household re-
quirements home from the shops because
deliveries have temporarily ceased. These
are hardships that have been endured by
many a country housewife for the greater
part of her fife.
But the real bait that lures people
away from the country towns is the better
class of employment offering in the cities
for themselves and their families. How
common it is in a small country town to
see a hard toiler battle on for years and
then suddenly pack up and head for the
city. His reason is that his family is grow-
ing up and he does not wish to see them
drift into those hard, dead-end jobs that
have been his lot. The city has some-
thing better for them ; the country hasn’t,
unless they are lucky. And after he has
been away for a few years he comes back
to his old home town, just for a look,
and tells his pals of the good jobs he and
his family are holding down in the city.
His only regret is that he did not go there
earlier in life. And some of his pals
start thinking about bettering themselves,
too.
Of late years conditions have improved
a lot for the working man in the country.
Secondary industries have sprung up and
more arid better jobs are available. You
don’t see men toiling from daylight till
dark on the harvest fields or in the bush
just to make al living as they did in pre-
war days. But the country has to go even
a little better. When it offers the same
opportunities and working conditions and
a few of the facilities and amenities of
the city to the working man, his wife
and their children, then the drift will be
stemmed or turned back. People go to
where they are best treated. —L. P. (Vic.).
An Offering for Peace
I spent Christmas Night and Boxing
Day fretful for the world because I, one
of those who fought to get this peace, am
seeing it rent asunder. There was the
anachronism of singing carols about the
Little Child of Bethlehem, while Beth-
lehem itself is a salient in a war between
two races which regard Christianity as
false. I had read that poem of Blake’s
about* Jerusalem, that “green and plea-
sant land,” and used to believe it was
that until I saw Jerusalem for what it
was: old, evil-smelling, a place of barter
where religion is commercialised: —I could
carve a cross in the Church of the Holy
Sepulchre for a fee.
There was Indonesia, which everybody
is prepared to give to the Indonesians ex-
cept the Dutch, who colonised it and
made it a prosperous country. People I
know who visited Indonesia before the
war used to speak highly of the advanced
colonial system of the Dutch. The
Dutch have always put great store by
education. Even the poorest laborer in
the Netherlands was better educated than
is the average. The Dutch took education
to Indonesia. They husbanded Indonesia
better, I contend, than we did India.
Imagine the screams 'which would arise
if Russia, the U.S.A, and the other U.N.
members decided to give Malaya back to
the Malayans, the Ukraine to the
Ukrainians, Poland to the Poles and so
forth. China’s case is the saddest of all.
I am convinced that there will be a
third world war, and I do not think any
of the future belligerents are kidding
themselves. It could be that China might
be the principal battleground, not Europe.
It may be our side will have lost the
chance. Staying out of China only
staves off the final issue a little longer,
just as Czechoslovakia prolonged the
“untidy peace.” But to enter China might
invite early conflict. Perhaps it might
lessen the agony and save innumerable
lives and limitless suffering if the war
did come early.
All this leads me to think that U.N.O.
is an abject failure which only our
“inestimable” Dr. Evatt and his cronies
in the master chess game will not admit.
It appears that the setting-up of peace
organisations is a greater threat to peace
than anything else. At least, between
the acts of aggrandisement the world en-
joyed comparatively long periods of
peace.
My grandmother died at 73, and knew
only two colonial wars and World War I.
I was born in an aftermath of war and a
promise of peace. World War I took my
father. World War II took my elder
brother ; I spent four years in a German
cage; my younger brother bears a’ scar
laid on his neck by a Japanese rifle-butt
in Burma. He will not fight again, be-
cause he became an invalid for life at
19. I can still fight. I may not believe
in fighting, but if it means my life for
50 years of peace without a mob of
idealists who would not fight in any war,
anyhow, then take my life. I shall give
it gladly that my children may live with-
out fear of what tomorrow may bring.
That or a madhouse, and I think the in-
sane could be richer companions than
the world’s peacemakers. —K.H. H.
(S.A.).
Incentives
Dissenting unions claim that incentive
systems set one man against the other,
eventually causing disharmony and bitter-
ness. In some cases the wages of semi-
skilled workers, with incentives added,
amount to more than those of first-class
tradesmen in the same factory. Also,
they warn, it can lead only to over-
production.
On the other hand, employers claim
that incentives, properly administered,
create a feeling of goodwill and co-opera-
tion, in that the worker has the satis-
faction of seeing something for his in-
creased effort. The rivalry, they claim,
is merely friendly.
To the employers its main advantage
is the overconiing of the acute labor
shortage by an increase in production.
In factories that work to seasons, such
as agricultural implements, fruit-process-
ing, etc., this is important. Their goods
must be completed and marketed by a
certain time each year. A further factor:
workers with the added incentive as a
Spur need less supervision.
As to the unions’ claim of rivalry and
bitterness, in some cases this does crop
up. Some men naturally work faster
than others, just as some inherently
do better work. This is merely a per-
sonal trait and is not governed by in-
centives. It is only natural, therefore,
for a plodding methodical worker, en-
gaged on the same task as a more mer-
curial and less conscientious fellow, to
feel resentment because his weekly enve-
lope is smaller. He has the one pace;
if in desperation he attempts to increase
it, he becomes flustered.
An accurate, disinterested assessment
of the merits or demerits of the incentive
system is practically impossible. It all
depends on which side of the fence you
stand, whether worker or employer. It
is certainly gratifying to receive some
tangible recognition for increased efforts,
but this might only be a temporary
balm if it eventually leads to the dole,
or, more immediately, creates hostile re-
lations with your fellow-workers. —R. E.
(Vic.).
Public Transport
The real trouble with our transport is
that it is publicly-owned and bureau-
cratically-run. Nobody cares a tinker’s
toss whether it pays or not, or what de-
terioration occurs. Nobody has to answer
to anybody for discomforts, dangers,
damages and general degeneracy.
I have seen the best tram, bus and train
services in the world in England and
America. In each and every case the
services were profit-producing, were the
acme of comfort, and were absurdly cheap
to the traveller. Naturally everybody on
the staff did his job “or else,” and wast-
age was an unknown quantity.
We are too obstinate to hand over our
transport to those who are born to the
job and could put it into first-rate con-
dition.—M. T. V. R. (N.S.W.).
Indonesia
What is the true position in Indo-
nesia—is the revolution a genuine and
widespread desire for self-government, or
is a body of malcontents being used as a
catspaw by Stalin in his bid for world
power? And would the Indonesians and
other peoples be better off if the Dutch
were forced out of the country?
Until Stalin began to force his ideas
of brotherly love upon the world,
the Indonesians were, in the main,
peaceful and contented and gradually


reaching towards a higher level of self-
government. Who can say **
the Dutch left the country —where they
have been for 300 years, and have treated
the natives better than Australians have
treated the abos —the natives, either
through internal or external influences,
would not become a greater menace to
other peoples, especially Australians !
Mr. Chifley and his followers would
do well to tread warily if they wish to
avoid the curses of present and future
Australians. —C. R. A. (N.S.W.).
Housing Shortage
“Had It” (B. 29/12/’4B) hasn’t even
started yet. Lack of work drove me to
Australia in 1929. A raw hand, I toiled
for 10 years on the land. I saved suffi-
cient money to build and furnish my own
hut. Then 1 enlisted. The war years were
just an interlude. I was lucky to survive,
I suppose, but I’m thankful to be alive.
In the last months of the war I married.
For six months a “D.B.S.R. with
use of kitchenette” was our “home.” I
think “Had It” was very lucky in getting
a flat at all. We couldn’t—not even for
double that rental. In 1945 no form of
money could find decent shelter. It
simply wasn’t there.
A baby came along, wanted by us,
unwanted by the landlady. Things be-
came most unpleasant. We moved, at a
price, to another area, still a D.8.5.R.,
but with fewer conveniences and more
rental. We endured all sorts of petty in-
sults and acts of spitefulness for the
baby’s sake. After a year of strained re-
lations we left—homeless. Wife and
baby went to in-laws’ abode, I boarded
with 56 others in a place big enough for
10. Cost, £2 10s. a week if you were
willing to share your room with three
others.
I found employment in the Railways
Department, starting again from scratch.
Eventually I hope to raise my status con-
siderably. Our combined deferred pay
and gratuities financed the building of a
house, together with the necessary furni-
ture. That was two years ago. The house
is still building. It may be ready this
year. Meanwhile we have been living
in reasonable comfort in a five-roomed
flat at £2 a week. It cost us £lOO for the
key.
I suggest that “Had It” and others
similarly situated should think twice be-
fore selling their homes and emigrating
to Australia. An unsponsored emigrant
must be prepared to take the same
chances about accommodation as every
returned serviceman in Australia has to
take. The housing shortage is world-
wide. I further suggest that Australia
House in London should discourage un-
sponsored migrants pending the allevia-
tion of the housing shortage. Finally, I
would remind “Had It” of an old Arab
proverhr “I was shoeless, footsore, miser-
able—until I saw a man who had no
feet.” Australia still offers fine oppor-
tunities for the man with resource,
stability and determination. I’ve proved
it.— Rooster (Vic.).
The Murray Valley
The T.V.A. (B. 29/12/’4B) has not the
“unlimited authority” of which “8.P.P.”
speaks. T.V.A. is really only a Federal
body with very limited powers, depend-
ing for its success on the co-operation of
adjoining States, local organisations and
the population of the valley itself. Dif-
fering conditions in Australia, particularly
from the constitutional aspect, preclude
the possibility of the smooth working of
such an authority here.
The problem of the Murray Valley
began last century, when the river was
chosen as the boundary between N. S.
Wales and Victoria. Despite the objec-
tions of the people of Riverina, all the
territory north of the south bank of the
Murray remained in N.S.W., and as a
result the river has been a source of
irritation between the two States ever
since.
The solution lies with the people of
the Murray Valley themselves. By re-
peating their proud record in the fight
for Federation, and pressing for a new
State, the Murray people could regain
charge of their own affairs and solve
their problem in their own way. The
problem of the Murray is the problem of
the people who live along its banks and
tributaries, not the problem of politicians
in distant capitals. New-Stater
(N.S.W.).
Turned Into Wine
Recently my mother received from
England two letters of appreciation from
relatives to whom we sent Christmas
parcels of food. Both writers mentioned
how particularly glad they were to get
raisins; they couldn’t buy them.
This made me think of the last two
grape harvests in S.A. In 1947 a lot of
the fruit was spoiled for drying by heavy
rain just before it was ready to pick, so
it had to be sent to the distilleries. But
not only rain-spoiled fruit was made into
wine ; the blocker we picked for sent a
lot of perfect fruit, too, because he found
that, at the price the distilleries were
giving him, it wouldn’t pay him to engage
the extra labor needed to dry the fruit.
In the 1948 season we picked grapes in
a different district, and once again many
growers weren’t drying much of their
fruit, although the season had been the
driest on record —not a point of rain
had fallen since December.
If you consider only the business side
of it they were doing the right thing. If
they dried their fruit they had to employ
men to cart the grapes to the green, dip
them, spread them on the racks, shake
them off, spread them on hessians, box
them, and load them. On top of this
they had to take the risk of having partly-
dried fruit spoiled by unexpected rain.
But if they sent them to the distillery, all
they had to do was to pick the grapes
and load them on to a lorry; and their
profit would be approximately the same.
So thousands of tons of first-class
fruit were made into wine, which meant
a quarter of that tonnage less of dried
currants, sultanas and raisins, when mil-
lions of people were suffering from a
shortage of food.
It ought to be better managed than
that. —Taswegian (Tas.).
The New Poor
The effects of inflation and the policy
of forcing down rates of interest and
keeping taxation high are well illustrated
in the July, 1948, letter of the National
City Bank of New York, covering the
economic conditions and Government
finance in the United States. A table
is given showing the extent to which a
person is better or worse off than in
1930, based on net income available after
payment of taxes, and measured in terms
of buying-power of goods and services.
Taking 100 as equal to 1930 living-
standards, some of the figures are:
1930. 1940. 1945. 1947.
Coalminer .. .. 100 131 176 191
Automobile worker .. 100 144 142 132
Railway worker .. 100 131 121 122
Railway executive 100 117 83 78
Teacher 100 120 103 109
Pensioner .. .. 100 117 75 65
Bondholder .. .. 100 80 47 38
Small stockholder .. 100 86 65 79
Well-to-do stockholder .. 100 79 50 58
Wealthy stockholder .. 100 51 23 31
The bank’s letter makes the following
comment, which applies equally well
to conditions existing in Australia:
Month by month, year by year, people
who have been considered, with justice,
the mainstay of our society—the great
middle-class—have been rewarded for their
prudence and self-reliance in steadily-depre-
ciating coin. These are the people who
save for retirement, for the rainy day, for
family security, as best they can with the
resources at their disposal. They are the
people who responded most generously to
the calls for funds in the Loan drives of
the war emergency. They are the people
who pay most of the taxes. They are the
people who provide wise leadership in com-
munity life all through the country. It is a
dangerous business, in a free society, to
grind them down, take away their incentives,
frustrate their efforts toward security.
And the alarming feature is that a trend
of this sort at some point precipitates
violent reaction. Inequities and maladjust-
ments like these as they become worse
and worse create the seeds of depression.
Booms have always ended in crashes.
Back of this inflationary trend are Gov-
ernment policies of spending, lending and
guaranteeing which, more than any other
single factor, have been responsible for our
taut economy and for the spiralling of
prices. The irony of it is that so much
of this spending is pressed in the name of
social welfare and liberalism. Yet those
who see in such spending the menace to
the security and freedom of the individual
are classed as reactionary and insensible
to humanitarian considerations.
—C.L. (W.A.).
Australian Standards
In defence of them “Dee” (B.
29/12/’4B) protests too much and credits
the present with the achievements of the
past. His claim that the climate is the
“fiercest and most implacable civilisation
has ever had to face” is ridiculous. He
describes the ordeal of white men toiling
in the canefields. These “white” men are
mostly olive-complexioned. The dinkum
Aussies are too indolent to transport the
sugar harvest even after it has been pro-
cessed and bagged. The beautiful cities
with tree-lined boulevards were built by
our immediate ancestors. We are respon-
sible for the ghastly housing shortage.
The magnificent hospitals are over-
crowded and understaffed. The fine
“bowling-greens and cricket-fields” are
apparently patronised by madmen who
go out in the midday sun to play strenu-
ous games “in an alien world of drench-
ing, enervating, killing heat.”
The rich mines discovered and de-
veloped by our rude forefathers now
produce a mere fraction of their potential
wealth. The railways so bravely con-
structed are decrepit and starved for fuel.
The ships are too much attached to the
shore. The factories function at mini-
mum speed. Our ever-increasing leisure
is largely, devoted to the “culture” of
horses and dogs. Our defence system is
the antithesis of the spirit of Anzac.
The lowering of our standards is
obvious in the slovenly speech of Parlia-
mentary debate, in the cobbling of shoddy
footwear, and in the “near enough” con-
duct of business and industry generally.
Intelligent lady visitors are not alone
in their criticism of our behavior. A
vast number of thoughtful and patriotic
Australians of both sexes in every walk
of life are aghast at the absence of
energy and ambition. Even “Dee’s” elo-
quent apology will fail to convince them
that we are doing more than a poor
second-best to justify our continued ex-
clusive possession of the most generous
and most fortunate slice of only-partly-
developed territory beneath the sun. —
Deebunk (S.A.).
Saving the Koala
Maughan, of Balwyn (Vic.), is not the
first person to breed koalas in captivity
(B. 22/12/’4B). That distinction belongs
to Keith Minchin, of Adelaide, who now
has so large a surplus that he is using the
extra animals to stock bush sanctuaries ;
the last lot were taken to a new home
on Kangaroo Island, The way in which
we have neglected to restock Australia
with an animal which is one of the world’s
greatest tourist attractions is a national
crime. The idea in official circles that
if you “leave it alone” you are doing
the thing best calculated to save some
beautiful and harmless creature from ex-
tinction never has worked and never will
In America the bison was saved from
extinction and is now to be numbered in
thousands because one man took the law
into his own hands, rounded up the last
tiny surviving herd and gave it a sanctu-
ary on his property. In Australia, mem-
bers of the avicultural societies have
saved several rare species of parrots from
extinction by breeding them in captivity.
When Victoria’s koalas were “left alone”
on Phillip Island they ate the trees bare
and then proceeded to die of starvation
until the public stepped in. Surplus ani-
mals, taken there by enthusiasts, were'
used to restock a sanctuary in Mt.
Alexander, which was soon proved to
be a success ; as fast as surplus animals
are available anywhere, they should be
used to stock similar sanctuaries.
Instead of officials connected with pro-
tection of flora and fauna trying to hinder
those willing to run private sanctuaries,
they should go all out to assist every-
one who can show that he or she is
competent to run one and has a suitable
property where there is adequate free
range and suitable food. It is the most
effective way to save harmless and beauti-
ful creatures from vanishing for ever. —
H.A.L. (S.A.).
That Shipping Line!
It is to be hoped the Opposition defeats
the Federal Government’s plan to estab-
lish a Commonwealth shipping line. It
is certain to end with a loss to be borne
by the taxpayer, as was the case with a
“Yes, Mum , but they're PAYING the Brisbane Volunteers for this job!”
former Commonwealth shipping line. It
is only necessary to look at T.A.A. to
realise that, once the Government inter-
feres, a transport service of any kind
loses its efficiency and its profits. There
is always the same story; wild issuing of
free passes ; extravagance and muddling,
resulting in rises in fares ; and a general
decline in service to the public.'
If the Government is sincere in its
desire to distribute scarce commodities
more quickly it will concentrate on
stopping waterfront strikes and go-slow
methods. At the same time, it will leave
shipping where it belongs—in the hands
of private enterprise.— Mac (N.S.W.).
The Changes of Time
Young George was a precocious kid
who had come up from the Junior Tech,
when I completed my course at the
School of Mines. It was a blow to my
dignity, upon reporting for a new appoint-
ment, to learn that he was to be my
chief. The company had sent him to
the U.S.A. to study the latest in mining
and milling practice, and he-now appeared
in large horn-rimmed spectacles, used
short a’s for words like patent and pass
and timed his interviews with a stop-
watch. ■ Somewhat apprehensive, I
sounded the shift-boss about him. “Effi-
ciency George, we call him,” said the
s.b., and then added confidentially, “You
know, I dreamt last night that he was
dead and that six of us —shift-bosses and
leading hands —were carrying the coffin
to the graveside when suddenly his great
voice boomed from inside the coffin,
‘Hey, outside there! Put this darned
casket on wheels and lay off five men.’ ”
It was then that I wondered if I had
been wise to give up my war-time job
with the Government to return to private
industry.— Val (Vic.).
Root of the Matter
Free medicine for all and sundry is
too much to ask. Medicine at a fair
price is a reasonable request. If it cannot
be obtained without control then it should
be brought under control in justice to in-
valids and their relatives, who are now
compelled to buy it like “a pig in a
poke” at a price which depends entirely
on the cupidity of the vendor. — Patient
(S.A.).
In New York an underground railway
carries passengers at a fixed rate for part
or the whole of the journey—sometimes
20 miles. In Paris the Metro does the
same. The fare in New York was equal
to about threepence of our money (since
raised to 10 cents), and the business pays.
Why not apply this system in Sydney and
Newcastle? Alter the trams so that pas-
sengers enter at one end only, through a
turnstile, and leave at the other end also
through a turnstile which would allow
passengers to leave but not enter. The
entrance turnstile should be operated by
putting a coin or a token in the slot, on
the same principle as those on the ferry
wharves. The fare should be cheap, say
3d. by coin or 4d. by token. This system
would do away with conductors and in-
spectors and a lot of clerical work in the
offices. It would also defeat deadheads
and scalers. The entrance could be closed
off by a sliding grille, electrically operated
by the driver, who could thus prevent
overcrowding.—J. I. (N.S.W.).
I would like to ask “D.C.” (B.
24/11 / ’4B) why he is so jubilant because,
“inheritance taxes have been abolished
in socialist U.S.S.R.” The impost is
unnecessary in a State where the State
owns all property. — Nubis (W.A.).
Newton and Faraday may not have
appeared on postage-stamps (B. 5/1 / ’49),
but in order to celebrate the centenary of
his visit to that country in 1835, Ecuador
honored Darwin with a complete issue
of stamps, one of which, the 20 centavos,
bears a portrait of the scientist. Eire has
from time to time remembered the cen-
tenaries of her patriots, by issuing stamps
on which their portraits appear. Por-
trayals of Captain Cook have appeared
on stamps issued by New South Wales,
Cook Islands, New Zealand, Raratonga,
Penrhyn and possibly other Oceanic
countries. New Zealand has similarly
honored a Dutchman, Abel Tasman.—
Muskeen (Vic.).
A visitor to Sydney, I was shocked by
the appalling lack of attendance at city
churches during the Christmas season. I
attended two suburban churches; one
congregation consisted of five persons,
the other of eight. How can world peace
be ensured if the Christian religion is
ignored? —Miss H. (N.S.W.).


you build
or buy a Home
consult The
MIX.
The M.L.C. can offer you finance on most
reasonable terms. By means of Life Assurance
your debt is covered should you die during
the term of the loan. Full information is
freely available from any M.L.C. Office or;
Representatives
gdf
The MUTUAL LIFE and ClTlZENS’Assurance Co. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE:
Collins and Elizabeth
Streets.
BRISBANE:
Commercial House,
Queen and Creek* Streets.
ADELAIDE:
Savings Bank Building,
101 King William Street.
PERTH:
179 a St. George’s
[Terrace.
HOBART:
Bank of Australasia
Chambers, Elizabeth and
Collins Streets.
WELLINGTON fN.Z.):
M.L.C. Building,
Quay.
