

A PRODUCT OF THE
V”
df
S E OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 70—No. 3631
Wednesday, September 14, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
KIRBY, A NOBLE EXAMPLE
OF THE ENGLISH BARONIAL HALL
17TRBY HALL, in Northamptonshire,
two miles from Gretton, is an out-
standing example of Elizabethan stone
mansion; essentially English in design
and decoration, there are few great Eng-
lish houses of this period that possess
more charm and beauty.
The first architect of Kirby Hall was
John Thorpe, and the foundation stone
was laid by the owner. Sir Humphrey
Stafford, in 1570, who died before its
completion in 1575. The property then
passed to Sir Christopher Hatton, Queen
Elizabeth’s Lord Chancellor. Queen
Elizabeth is reputed to have stayed here,
and King James I visited Kirby Hall in
1612, 1616 and 1619.
Alterations to the building were
carried out by that famous architect
Inigo Jones in 1638-40, and his magnifi-
cent work can be seen on the north front
and his adaptation of Thorpe’s earlier
treatment of the rich central court. The
mansion consists of four, wings arranged
around a quadrangle, with a projecting,
wing to the south, as seen in this picture.
The magnificent gardens of Kirby Hall
were famous throughout England in the
latter part of the 17th century.
In 1764 the property passed from the
Hattons to the Finches, who thus became
Finch-Hattons and succeeded to the
Earldom of Winchelsea and Nottingham
in 1826. The eleventh earl, however, was
a patron of the turf, and in order to pay
debts he cut down the avenue trees and
stripped the roof, so that by 1889 the
rooms to the east of the great hall were
described as being in ruins. In 1919 the
panelling and fittings in the fast-decaying
house were disposed of and the property
handed over to the Ministry of Works in
1929, under whose care the work of con-
servation of the house and ancient
gardens is carried on to preserve them
for posterity.


n
UmJ
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 249 AQE
The Red Page
LOST BOTANIST.
Baron Ferdinand von Mueller had
in common with his fellow-countryman
Leichhardt an engaging habit of losing
himself in the bush. We have word of
him for example, in the diary of Augustus
Gregory, quoted in Margaret Willis’s By
Their Fruits (Angus and Robertson), ex-
ploring the Northern Territory very much
in Leichhardt’s happy-go-lucky spirit:
Started at 7 a.m., and followed up the
Creek. Dr. Mueller having wandered away
into the rocky hills and lost himself, I
halted at the first convenient spot, having
dispatched several of the party in search of
him, but it was not until 4 p.m. that the
Doctor reached the camp.
It is not altogether inappropriate, there-
fore, that the baron should be lost for
the greater part of By Their Fruits, in
which Mrs. Willis tells his life. But when
as official Botanist to the Victorian Gov-
ernment and director of its public
gardens Mueller was very much in the
public eye almost from the beginning of
his career in Australia, when even his
love-letters were apparently available to
the biographer and when much of his
other . private as well as official cor-
respondence was available —with more,
perhaps, to be found by inquiry in Eng-
land and Germany—the botanist can
hardly be said to have bushed himself
on this occasion ; and By Their Fruits,
particularly in the early chapters, is a
book of lost opportunities.
The weakness lies partly in the cosy,
rosy, sentimental mood in which the story
is told, and in which Mueller’s character
is largely obscured and, chiefly, in the
failure to provide quotations! to allow the
reader to correct or deepen the picture
for himself.
Early in the biography we are told that
Mueller, then a boy in Germany, had
told his sister Iwanne “something of his
purpose,” to which Iwanne replied “You
certainly aim high.” Mueller’s purpose,
says the biographer, was to “travel and
explore, he would discover things and
places not yet dreamt of by men.” But
these are the biographer’s words. The
boy’s precise utterance, which would
seem to have been available, seeing that
we have his sister’s reply, and which is
the very thing required to bring him to
life before us as even then a fanatical
botanist, of unlimited ambition within his
special field, is not quoted. We are told
that he “would write a special letter to
his baby sister and tell her about the
little plant called the Shepherd’s Purse
which was interesting him just then” ; and
the letter is not quoted.
Mrs. Willis misses chance after chance
in this way. Mueller is said on his arrival
at Adelaide, to have “almost regretted
having come to this dried-up yellow
land”; and here we have neither his
direct speech nor any proof that such
were indeed his feelings.
Mueller is “deeply concerned” when
Leichhardt is lost; but we do not know
what he said. He is “bitterly disappointed
and resentful” when, instead of being
asked to do the work alone, he is merely
invited to collaborate with the English
botanist George Bentham on the gigantic
Flora Australiensis; but we do not have
the bitter words he must have written —
an omission which later, as the quarrel
develops and as letters are quoted from
all the parties except Mueller, becomes
astounding.
Along with these omissions there is a
general failure to seize the opportunities
for drama, for scenic descriptions and
even for descriptions of wildflowers
which Mueller’s career provides. The
explorations and the adventures of Giles,
of Burke and Wills and of Leichhardt,
in all of which Mueller had a close in-
terest, have only cursory mention;
Mueller’s own explorations —except in
the Northern Territory exploit, where
there are a few quotations from Gregory
—are set down hardly more excitingly
than a list of names on an atlas; and as
to the flowers and the bush, there is
scarcely a splash of color or a green leaf
in the book from beginning to end.
A section dealing with Mueller’s rela-
tions with the Victorian Government and
his anxiety for his repeatedly threatened
livelihood is better documented, but needs
a simpler, more selective handling. The
best chapters are those which deal with
Mueller’s love for Euphemia Henderson
and with his little eccentricities in old
age.
Mrs. Willis might have dealt at much
greater length with the love story. Again
there are omissions. A love-letter which
is said to cover four foolscap pages ap-
pears only as a couple of paragraphs,
ending with:
Walking along in the cool, bracing star-
light night, I could calmly muse over the
incidents of the eventful recent days. Its
lovely pictures passing before my mind
almost as a beautiful dream....
But there are fairly liberal quotations
throughout this section, and, in conse-
quence, Mueller comes to life as a man,
and the story is strange and moving;
how he fell in love with Euphemia,
promised to marry her, then fell into an
extraordinary panic and, on the grounds
of his hereditary tendency to tubercu-
losis, asked her to release him ; which,
though her friends threatened the lover
with a horsewhipping, she did; the
couple remaining friends.
More effective still —for Mrs. Willis is,
one feels, more concerned to depict the
lovers as “two splendid people” than
fully to dramatise their story —are the
pictures of Mueller in old age: how he
rolled up his trousers in the rain ; how
once, thinking it was some kind of skull-
cap, he wore a tea-cosy on his head for
a whole day; how he drank beer with
fellow-Germans in Melbourne ; how he
made interminable speeches at public
meetings; how he wore white gloves
with the fingers an inch or so too long;
how he gave generously to beggars and
was kind to young botanists ; how he
wore a muffler on the hottest days; how
his friends remembered the little, bearded
gentleman
dressed in a rusty suit of black, with
dress coat, the trousers very much too
short, showing much blue-grey woollen
stocking, while his feet were shod with
sabots. Round his neck were several folds
of muffler, made of angora wool, with the
ends hanging down. The whole surmounted
by a chimneypot hat of unfashionable
model, which had been brushed the wrong
way. He was the pink of courtesy, and
sometimes if was difficult not to smile a
little at him.
No doubt such a biography as By
Their Fruits is written out of love for an
endearing character and respect for a
great botanist; and for those qualities,
for the facts of Mueller’s life and for the
moments when the writing becomes pic-
torial or dramatic the book is welcome.
But Mueller, as one can sense from the
omissions as well as learn from the facts,
was a vehement as well as an endearing
character; fanatical, vain, eccentric,
touched with genius. His life-story should
not have been rather dull, as it is here,
but intensely dramatic.
Magisterial Japes.
Throughout his very funny book,
Enough of Action (Cape), Edward
Lydall studiously avoids the obvious, ex-
cept when he considers the failure of
British statesmanship in the first Afghan
War, early in last century, which he
attributes, to British avoidance of the ob-
vious : thus, the most casual of his casual
surprises might well be that Mr. Lydall
is a most competent British official.
If not, he is still a most competent
humorist, of the kind who attracts funny
happenings and improves them, from his
education dt Marlborough and Cam-
bridge to his magisterial duties in India
—his school-friend who fell in love with
a statue in the Louvre ; Rudi, in Vienna,
who borrowed a million kronen from
him in order that he might study elec-
tricity and invent television; Eric in
London, to whom he gave a sealed letter
to deliver to Ausdrey containing a pro-
posal of marriage from Eric, “tastefully
decorated”; the German professor in
the Black Forest who helped him polish-
up his German for the civil service and
presided at drinking parties where beer
was drunk from a tall riding-boot; and
Colin, with whom he shared a bungalow
in Gauhati, Assam, who had “Ex Lapide
Sanguis” painted on the gate as a warn-
ing to his native creditors that you can’t
get blood out of a stone, and who re-
lieved life’s tedium by organising a
wedding procession, led by an elephant
and the town band, helped out with a
bagpipe-player and a mouth-organist,
followed by two snake-charmers and 12
natives letting off fireworks; then 50
little boys waving paper flags and a
wandering fakir who “looked slightly
dazed”: —
In the middle, forming the main body of
the procession, were six hackney carriages
containing twelve bewildered old gentle-
men with beards and umbrellas. They had
been on their way to a neighboring college
to give instruction in philosophy and
Sanskrit literature when they had been con-
fronted by Colin, who had firmly informed
them that they were wedding guests.
According to Mr. Lydall, Mr. Lydall’s
departure from Assam followed his re-
mark, during a sudden silence at dinner,
that his new superior officer was “popu-
larly believed throughout Assam to be
descended from a long line of maiden
aunts.”
On leave in Italy, he helped a young
Roman girl with her thesis for Doctor
of Literature by reading some books she
had no time to read herself, and had the
satisfaction of seeing her incorporate in
her thesis (which produced the desired
doctorate) his notes, which she intro-
duced with “As Voltaire so wittily re-
marks. ...”
The Second World War having begun,
he carried on a mild propaganda cam-
paign against the Italian Embassy in
Kabul and studied the diplomatic reper-
cussions of benzedrine tablets upon lega-
tion parties;
If George distributed the benzedrine too
long before dinner, everything would sud-
denly go blank half-way through the
pudding, and the meal would continue in
pessimistic silence!
A short stay in Calcutta, some service
in China and a sojourn in Manipur,
where the dancing-girls were offset by
the warlike advances of tedious Japanese ;
and August 14, 1947, found him in Rak-
jot, headquarters of the Resident for the
States of Western India, where, at mid-
night :
We drank to the future of the twin
Dominions of India and Pakistan which
had that moment been born. Then, with
even greater enthusiasm, we drank to the
future of ourselves.
It was a good time while it lasted, but
Mr. Lydall seems to have this advantage
over most whom the cession of India has
rendered jobless, that he will be able to
find amusing whatever fate has in store
for him —and that is a rare and admir-
able quality.
Sanananda Road.
In his Sanananda Interlude (Book
Depot, Melbourne) Chaplain F. J.
Hartley, Seventh Australian Division
Cavalry Regiment, wastes no time with
the regiment’s action-missing trip across
to Syria and back —his first soldier is
killed on page seven, along the savage
Sanananda trail.
'There is little of the accepted notion
of a cleric in this front-line parson ; and
he writes with the conviction of actual
experience and alert observation. Near
Huggins’s Post:
as darkness closed around us and all that
could be done had been done, we tried to
get some rest. The air was filled with doubt
•and tragedy. Around us we could hear
the heavy breathing of the wounded, doped
with morphia. Occasionally a moan
escaped from those drugged lips . . .
The padre .was with his regiment all
the way along the Sanananda Road, a
route whose viciousness was probably un-
surpassed by any European war-theatre.
Almost every page has its medal-
meriting action: Corporal Ed. Connell,
who, wounded in front of Jap machine-
guns, threw himself at their muzzles to
prevent his cobbers from advancing to his
rescue, and their death; Captain Cobb,
who found the fortitude to bury valuable
Intelligence reports beside him before he
died from a savage wound in hand-to-
hand combat; the tank-driver who had
one leg shattered by an armor-piercing
anti-tank shell, and with the burning
metal lodged in the other drove his tank
back out of range; the medical orderlies
who stayed up all night, pressing thumb
and fingers on a gaping chest-wound that
meant the end of its recipient if the
numbed fingers relaxed their hold.
One of the author’s main jobs was
locating the dead in the stubborn jungle
and there burying them; he has added a
complete record of this work, including
the names, dates, and whereabouts killed
and buried of those incomparable fighters.
A Learned Bestseller.
Rather shocked at the idea of devoting
50 pages to himself, but no doubt, with
his knowledge of the methods of
historians, anxious to get in first, G. M.
Trevelyan, 0.M., Master of Trinity Col-
lege, Cambridge, opens his collection An
Autobiography and Other Essays (Long-
mans) with the sober story of his
life: —grandnephew of Macaulay ; son
of Macaulay’s biographer Sir Otto
Trevelyan; always anxious to write
history; reading eight hours a day for
examinations; visiting Blenheim during
vacation and thus luckily anticipating an
examination question ; walking over Italy
to prepare for his three-volume history
of Garibaldi, which he considers his best
work, except, perhaps, his history of
England Under Queen Anne —although
his Social History of England seems to
have been most successful, having sold
“well over 392,000,” followed by his
History of England, which sold 200,000
copies.
The other essays are occasional
addresses, obituaries of old friends, broad-
casts and contributions to magazines. In
“Bias in History,” he sets himself on the
side of literature as against the “scientific
historian”:
I once wrote three volumes on Garibaldi.
They are reeking with bias. Without bias
I should never have written them at all
And in “Stray Thoughts on History,”
he develops the theory that modern trans-
port destroys civilisation, whereas the
Middle Ages developed “pockets” civi-
lisation which saved Europe L the
“fossilisation” of China:
Those Dark Ages proved a fine seedbed
for a future civilisation, such as no
totalitarian system, ancient or modern can
supply, except at the price of its own dis-
ruption.
He has some kind words for Cromwell
and, throughout the book, considerable
admiration for Carlyle ; there are two in-
formative studies of “Social Life in
Roman Britain” and ‘The Coming of
the Anglo-Saxons.” But perhaps the best
of these short pieces is that on “The In-
fluence of Sir Walter Scott on Historw”
in which he claims the Scott of the
Waverley Novels as father of his own
specialty, the “social history”:
The difference between Gibbon and
Macaulay is a measure of the influence of
Scott [Gibbon’s] history is like the pro-
cession on the Parthenon frieze.... To
Scott each age, each profession, each
province, had its own manners, dress, ways
of thinking, talking and fighting To
Scott a man is the product of his special
environment
Reviewed Briefly.
From the Falcon Press, done up in
dust-jackets of a sombre and alarming
black but bound in a pleasant blue cloth,
come the first three volumes of what is
to be a complete set of the novels of
Radclyffe Hall. The novels so far pub-
lished are The Unlit Lamp, Adam's
Breed (which won the Femina Vie Heur-
eme Prize for 1925-26 and the James
Tail. Prize for 1926), and the celebrated
Well of Loneliness.
* * * «
Cape is publishing a series of “Essen-
tial Books,” two of which to hand are
The Essential Neville Cardus, edited by
Rupert Hart-Davis, and The Essential
Mary Webb, edited by Martin Armstrong.
Joyce, Hemingway and the naturalist
Richard Jefferies are also included in the
series. The Cardus volume has selections
from six of his cricket books, including
Days in the Sun and Australian Summer,
and four essays are reprinted from his
Ten Composers. In the Mary Webb book
there are 12 of her poems, extracts from
six novels and a set of country essays
from The Spring of Joy.
* * * *
Snow White: Jan Vlasak and Josef
Segret (Hodge). “A record of a unique
event, of how for the first time a polar
bear cub was reared by hand.” Dr.
Vlasak was superintendent of the Prague
Zoo during the German occupation and
the cub was reared in his flat; a film
about it shown to the London Zoological
Society aroused scientific and popular
interest that led to the publication of the
book. There are excellent photographs,
and it is a fascinating little story for any-
body, old- or young, who likes animals.
* * * *
The White Cockade: Baron Porcelli
(Hutchinson). A life of Bonnie Prince
Charlie, with a history of the ’45 and a
full account of Flora Macdonald, from
whom the author is descended. In an
appendix there- are printed letters and
proclamations by the Prince, letters by
Flora Macdonald, and a short statement
of the parts played by each clan in the
rising. It is an unpretentious history,
simple and direct; and for that reason
much more readable than the average
highly-colored romance.
The World’s Chief Languages: Mario
A. Pei (Allen and Unwin). Third edition
of a book first published as Languages
for War and Peace. The human animal,
the author recalls, communicates his
thoughts, aspirations and needs in 2796
languages.. . all of which, perhaps, are
spoken at King’s Cross. Seven principal
tongues (including Japanese and Russian)
are dealt with here at length, and, in me
chapter on “Languages of the Middle
and Far East,” there are notes on Malay
and kindred dialects. In each case the
general history and structure of the
language is discussed and a selective
vocabulary is provided.
* * * *
The Time Has Come, a pamphlet by
Inghram Smith, was taken home by the
reviewer to be studied with the diligence
it deserves, for it appeared to be con-
cerned with the reformation of the world,
and the world undoubtedly needs reform-
ing-. Unfortunately the reviewer’s mtant
daughter fell upon it and tore it to pieces,
and the mutilated sentences, though they
make an interesting kind of surre^ is
prose —“Hi, inward on himself, he was
being thrown nearer to hand, more im-
mediate”—fail to give an adequate render-
ing of the original. One can only hope
that The Time Has Come will be rea
elsewhere with the diligence it deserve
and that the reformation of the wort,
will not be impeded.


TRUTH IN
ADVERTISING”
'////tv//,
%-Sj
m
. -
FO
K
%
a
a
-
m-4;
■
m
11
H
I—l
■i : ;
Suit Cases Thoughtfully designed to give you maximum packing space, feature English
safety locks which really keep the case closedly Popular sizes 24in,, 70/-; 26in., 75/-; 28in., 80/-.
Cabin Cases hit the headlines with their two wooden battens for reinforcement and the
really strong leather handles. Cases are available in two useful sizes, 26in., £4/10/-; 28in., £5,
Hat Case is in square shape with lots of packing space, lined, pocket, 16in., 52/6; 18in., 55/-.
Ladies 9 Overnight Bag features single stripe, genuine zip fastener, 2 handles, 18in., 92/6.
V' /
Gent 9 s Grip Bag with single stripe, 2 snap locks, inside pocket fully lined, 20in., £5/1/9.
Travel Bug in warm, lightweight Shetland wool sporting tartan check, fringed ends, 87/-.
j,
0
B
1/^
is the theme
in improved 9
strong, lightweight
O
Either individually or in the
complete set, these
gay matched luggage sets make the
ideal travelling companions.
And, if you like, you can buy the set
one by one!
f
92/6
52/6
1/17
r'\
S £5
£5/1/9
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ TRAVEL GOODS
i.
GROUND FLOOR, PITT
STREET. M24DI; BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3631
Wednesday, September 14, 1949
CATS ON THE ROOF.
A fellow would rightly be reckoned a goof
Who’d let loose another such cat on the roof!”
(With apologies to Edward Harrington, B. 12/12/’34.)


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
ELECTION OVERTURE.
Mr. Chifley’s election Budget statement
provided some outline of the policy-
speech he will recite over the radio net-
work a few weeks hence.
The purport of it was that the hundreds
of millions of his revenue and expendi-
ture of last year go up a little more in
j. J r 1 .4.
his estimates foi the year now current,
and that out of the haul he could expect
of revenue, direct and indirect, he will
"“VS* »“f. « «fpon,, of sales tax
out of £4O million, £O.B million of enter-
tainment tax out of £5 million, and £1.5
million of Customs and excise out of
£125.5 million
* , , ,
To the income-tax payer, who gets no
further relief, he, in effect, says What
have you got to growl about? You are
now paying only half of what you would
have paid on present revenue returns if I
had not lightened your burden for you
in the years since the war ended.”
In his election appeal this last bit is
not likely to go over well. Much more
probably the elector will write down on
his memo-pad for December 10 Mr.
Chifley’s remark to a Socialist gathering
at the Melbourne Trades Hall three days
earlier, referring to the possibility that
the Opposition parties might be returned
to power: “Don’t let the same dog bite
you twice!”
Otherwise the Budget statement pro-
vided many of the facts prepared for the
Government’s election campaign of
standing on its record.” The Socialists,
that is to say, have—
-4 . ,
.heagAs n Sr!” e sn.a
the country made a lot of money. The
N.S.W. “Labor” Government, for instance,
put by some £ll million surplus earnings
from rail services, allegedly into a fund to
rehabilitate rolling-stock, and is now in
deficit again, with most of that nest-egg
blown on increased wages and other costs.
tered mainly in what Professor Copland
calls the 5) development of “a milk-bar
eC “P°uT y 4O per cent, more people into
work”—and produced little more in volume
of some lines, and even less in basic
necessities of industry, than when 40 per
cent, fewer were on the job.
The “Golden Age” has not yet arrived ;
in fact, it must this year suffer such set-
backs as a lower income- from exports,
higher internal prices (whereof the end
is not yet), and reduced output from
secondary industries because of short-
ages in coal and steel, “sharply accentu-
ated by the recent coal strike.” There is
a threat here to Australia’s security and
social development which Mr. Chifley
recogmses as demanding, by way of
counter-measures, “the bringing of our
development resources into greater pro-
duction.” But a renewal of his vain
appeals of the past three years to the
unions does not fit into his election cam-
paign ; the answer Mr. Chifley proposes
now is great Government development
schemes (Snowy River, Burdekin dam,
N.T. meat business and so forth), and the
recruiting of labor forces by immigration
so as to “double our population in a few
„ t _ j ~, ,
decades. In a few decades.
On the bones of this skeleton design
for “standing on their record” the
SociaHsts may be expected to build such
flesh and blood as full employment -a
condition which the unkind Professor
Copland has said should rather be de-
scribed as “the employment of large
numbers at a level far below industrial
.. ~ i.i . l • n A i
capacity and the promise that inflated
wages could really be made to mean
something if the people would only con-
sent to permanent centralised price-
control at Canberra. The A.C.T.U. and
most of the politicians are bent upon
staging another prices referendum, and
the mixed cajolery and threats used by
Mr. Chifley towards the State Premiers
in his efforts to re-establish petrol-
rationing are a clear sign of how im-
portant is this detail in the advancement
of the socialisation programme.
What the Budget statement did not
include was any reference to the Govern-
ment’s dealing with the Communists, or
to the prospects of increasing production
.with a policy of cutting down essential
imports and marking-time on starvation
rations of coal. Not one of Mr. Chifley’s
high-sounding schemes for maintaining
“full employment” on great development
works is possible of realisation without
coa i and stee j and cement As for the
States’ housing programmes, any real
attempt today on the Snowy River or
Burdekin schemes would, with the
appropriation of available materials, kill
housing stone-dead. Without housing
what becomes of the swelling flood of
immigration upon which modern “Labor”
plumes itself? The influx of these new
and willing WO rking hands is described by
Mr Chifley as essential to the Govern-
ment’s prosperity programme.
tv. r? u if j • . . , „
Dr. Evatt, it has been decided, shall
not g 0 abroad . Somebody e l se can per-
form at u.N.O. Assembly the last rites
due from him as outgoing president, and
induct his successor, about whom (accord-
ing to foreca& ts) “Fixer” Ashley could lay
long odds the field bar one, a gentleman
from the Philippines. Shades of the
Manila girls and Sergeant Gamboa! Dr.
Evatt, then, will not be there for the
occasion. Ministerial concerns which will
keep him at home from a further sojourn
overseas include:
The circumstance that the reasons (to be
in October) for the Privy Coun-
cii s adverse Bank Grab case judgment
will have to be examined by his political
eye promptly and closely. “There are men
reasonable ingenuity in Cabinet,” said
2?
mere unconstitutionality,
The Communist advance in China and
south-east Asia, to combat which Cabinet
has agreed to co-operate actively with
Britain.
Government ’ s undertaking during
the coal strike to deal effectually with the
local Communists after the strike ended
such UB action) rC ** n ° Slgn a * yCt ° f aDy
The fighting of a e | ection cam ,
paign, in which most Caucus members hold
that Dr. Evatt should this time put in
ething more than a last ' hour a PP ear '
’ ■ „ i.
And, anyway, as president of U.N.O. he
is now onl Y a has-been, and dollars are
Precious even when they go down on
External Affairs expense accounts,
Nearly seven weeks have passed since
Mr. Calwell, on behalf of the Govern-
ment, told an A.L.P. rally in Sydney
Domain that “the Government got all
the information it wanted from the raid
9 n , Mar * H ° u f ; ™ wdl smas u h thls st J lke
“ ddeal with these things after-
So confident are the Communists
hl * was only an empty threat that,
on the Simday before Mr. Chifley s
for *****.a
assembled on the spot where Mr. Calwell
had dedicated the Ministry to this
crusade, exhibited the scars made by
e • ; ... „ • . ,
Socialist gyves on their wrists, and pro-
claimed that the fight was not lost be-
cause “they” (the Government) “have not
suffldent coal to maintain I****” .
By the time the election campaign
officially opens Ministers must either have
done something about that pledge to deal
with the Communists, or explain why
they avoid it. The party’s campaign-
manager, Mr. Kennelly, was heard the
other day jn most jovja , form fa Md .
bo urne exclaiming that “Labor” was
practically home and dried, that “the
party all over Australia is four-square
and united behind the Prime Minister.”
ft was absurd to suppose, he said, that
the recent expulsions in Sydney showed
a sp i r it 0 f revolt, or that Mr. Ward’s
criticism of the Government’s coal-strike
policy was anything but playful. Never-
theless Mr. Kennelly—or perhaps some-
body who takes the situation in N.S.W.
more seriously—will have his work cut
out to uphold “solidarity” in the key
electoral State, especially if Canberra
tries to shove off upon the A.C.T.U.
Ministers’ pledges to purge “the move-
ment” of the Communists,
a.C.T.U.’s biennial congress is
scheduled for Sydney next Monday. The
meeting is due (and overdue) to decide
on .
’ . «... .. . 4 , 4t .. _ ,
Disaffiliation with the World Federation
of j rade Unions, from which the British
Trade Union Congress has just broken
°ff relations, its president declaring the
commit IteSonaf aShoT”* for
]ncentive payme „ ts in industryi „ hich its
executive pledged itself to Mr. Chifley to
support two years ag9, and then, outvoted
by its own Communists, deserted.
, Pr ° posa . ls by the Federal A.L.P. executive
(meeting in Canberra on October 3) that
the Government shall legislate to prohibit
Communists from holding union offices—
proposals which to Mr. Monk of the
A.C.T.U. are poison,
To all appearances the differences be-
tween the Federal A.L.P. executive and
the A.C.T.U. on this and other questions
—significant of the rivalry of the two
bodies as advisers of the Chifley Cabinet
—neatly correspond with the divisions
hi Cabinet and caucus on the whole Com-
munist issue, on the attitude to be taken
about the socialisation objective, and on
whether the A.L.P. groups in the unions
are to be supported or left in the lurch,
All this will be something for the party’s
band-wagon to drown when the march to
the polls begins.
Hydroelectric Politics.
Following Mr. Chifley’s visit to Western
Australia, dailies have unearthed the
germ of a scheme which the Government
has in mind for the development of
further hydroelectric works.
The Snowy River scheme, of course,
already is in hand and has reached the
stage of the insertion of expensive adver-
tisements for a lot of expensive em-
ployees. It is to be carried out as a
defence scheme, and therefore its inner
workings will be just as much a profound
secret as those which produced—with
slave-labor —the great Soviet Union
canals.
Any questions of extravagance, any
problems of manpower, any arguments
in Parliament about the efficiency or
economy with which the project is carried
out, will henceforward be stilled with an
assurance that the urgent need for secrecy
makes debate impossible. As the word
“sesame” of old opened doors, so now
the magic word “defence” is to close them
whenever the Government finds it con-
venient to muzzle its opponents.
The Chifley Government, as is shown
by the carefree air with which it has
accepted the failure of the Citizen De-
fence scheme and the abandon with which
it is going on increasing its expenditure
on that and its equally futile rocket-range,
doesn’t care twopence about defence. It
has a feeling that the United States and
Britain will take care of that, while itself
looks after the limelight and the totali-
tarianism at home.
What it does care about is having a
few large, expensive projects on hand
which can be carried out with the fewest
inconveniences in the way of criticism to
itself and with the finest field of
patronage.
The defence aspect of the Snowy River
scheme probably does not matter in such
calculations, especially since its usefulness
for defence is so remote. The Chifleys
are carrying the scheme out under legis-
lation for which they would have moved
Heaven and earth to wreck any other
Government. And choice of the Snowy
River area as the one in which hydro-
electric development is to begin is as
curious as the choice of the next areas
picked out for investigation.
The favored districts are said to be in
Queensland and in Western Australia.
There is no word about any development
on the New South Wales North Coast,
where the indefatigable Earle Page has
been working out details with the help
of experts for 30 years past, until little
remains to be determined about the use-
fulness of a scheme for that district and
its general important effect on Australian
economy. It is a plan the need for
which becomes, in its flood-control and
water-conservation aspects, more obvious
every year as flood after flood causes
damage.
That urgency grows with the growth
of population on the North Coast and of
traffic between Sydney and Queensland,
and with the changing in the nature of
industries carried on between the coal-
fields and the Macpherson Ranges. There
is scarcely a large town east of the range
which is not annually at least inconveni-
enced, and every few years paralysed and
involved in substantial losses through
floodwaters which might easily be stored
and turned to the purposes of wealth in-
stead of destruction. Yet these areas,
even with the experience of the Kempsey
flood before his eyes, have not attracted
the attention of the Prime Minister and
his Socialist planners.
The Clarence scheme has had a pilot
plant working at Nymboida for a quarter
of a century. It is the pioneer hydro-
electric undertaking in Australia. The
Clarence Water-Power Development Plan
has been worked out in great detail, to
provide for nine upper dams between
Dorrigo and the Maryland River (which
feeds out of the Macpherson Ranges),
with the main station at the Gorge intake
to the Clarence River. This scheme alone
has a catchment area of 9000 square miles
behind it, with an average annual flow of
300 acre-feet per square mile of drain-
age, which compares very favorably with
some of the larger rivers of the old world.
The idea, as summed up in the words
of Dr. Page, “involves 300,000,000,000
cubic feet of Clarence River water to be
stored, 300,000 hydroelectric horsepower
to be generated, 3000 square miles of in-
accessible country to be developed, and
300 miles of impassable river to be opened
for navigation.” The cost has been esti-
mated as trifling beside that of the Snowy
River scheme, and subsidiary schemes are
envisaged, along with flood control, on
the other rivers further south flowing
from the Tablelands to the coast.
There is no area more suitable for
electrification, since any plan carried out
in the hydroelectric field links naturally
at both ends with the coalfields in Queens-
land and New South Wales to make the
two sources of generation integral. There
is, moreover, no better market for the
cheap hydroelectricity to be provided by
t he Clarence scheme than the North Coast
and New England Tablelands of New
South Wales, where there are numerous
large towns and cities, up and coming in
every respect, strongly based financially
on richly producing rural industries, but
at the crossroads in point of expansion
for the need of cheap power to develop
them on the industrial side.
To the possibilities of the North
Coast scheme the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment appears to be stone-blind.
The reason is plainly obvious. It is com-
pletely incapable of looking at any pro-
ject save in the light of political self-
interest and the chances presented by
doling out spoils. Its defence policy has
been subjugated to its political interests.
Its development policy is being treated in
exactly the same light.
The Clarence and other rivers in the
north of New South Wales present
opportunities for development on a large
scale which would cost infinitely less than
the Snowy River scheme, be easier and
much quicker to bring to the stage of
operation and give electricity to con-
sumers over shorter land lines and at a
price as cheap as or cheaper than the ex-
pensive investment of public money on
which the Government is engaged. Fifty
towns and cities —among them, Brisbane,
Newcastle, Ipswich, Toowoomba, Lis-
more, Casino, Grafton, Glen Innes, Armi-
dale, Tamworth, Kempsey, Maitland and
even Sydney—call for security in
power-supply which they have not got so
long as they depend on coal. But so long
as the supply is designed to come from
an area which adjoins the coalfields,
and which can be quickly developed, Mr.
Chifley and his Ministers will have no-
thing to do with it, since it would not be
palatable to the miners.
Also, so long as the districts involved
insist on returning men like Dr. Earle
Page, they have no chance with the pre-
sent Government, which is a class Gov-
ernment purely and simply, relentlessly
bound to the doctrine that opinions ad-
verse to those of Labor can be held only
at the peril of the holder. Districts so
represented can take it for granted that
they will be treated by Mr, Chifley and
his colleagues as enemy territory, and
duly punished by being ignored as far
as possible.
It is no wonder that the New-State
Movement is growing in Northern New
South Wales and in other districts which,
under the present system of caucus rule
which gives nothing save for favors re-
ceived, are virtually disfranchised.
D.P. Casualties.
Disclosure of the deaths from malnu-
trition among infant D.Ps. set all hands
seeking to pass the buck.
The kiddies, it would seem, were in
good health when they boarded the ships
for Australia, and they were also in an
advanced state of malnutrition. The food
they ate on the way out was poor, and
it was also of quite a high standard ; not
as good or as plentiful as that of the
camps in Europe, and also better and
more plentiful. The water-supply on
the migrant ships was scanty, and also
quite adequate. Little or no fruit was
supplied on the voyage, and apples,
oranges and lemons were issued daily.
Assessing the facts has not been made
any simpler by the obstructive tactics of,
on the one hand, the Minister for Immi-
gration, and, on the other, the Interna-
tional Refugee Organisation authorities,
before and since the scandal became
public. Mr. Calwell has more than once
refused reporters access to immigrant
ships; Major-General Lloyd, chief officer
of the 1.R.0. in Australia, has taken
similar action. In the circumstances
neither can complain if he is suspected
of having something to hide. The seem-
ingly universal instinct of Socialist
bureaucracy towards secrecy and suppres-
sion whenever there is the slightest hint
that there may be a weakness in its or-
ganisation is in marked contrast to the
fanfare of trumpets with which it pro-
claims its achievements.
1.R.0., in giving hundreds of thousands
of Europe’s unfortunates a chance of a
new life, has done a noble work, and Aus-
tralia has no need to be ashamed of its
part in the scheme. As to eligibility for
embarkation —surely the kiddies who are
suffering from malnutrition are the very
ones most entitled to a fresh chance in
a land of comparative plenty? Mr. Cal-
well told Parliament that of 2029 children
under two years old brought to Aus-
tralia only 19 had died. Taking every-
thing into account, that is not an exces-
sive figure.
If the publicity results in improved
medical care and better food on migrant
ships it will be all to the good, but the
real blame for the tragic loss of young
life lies further back than the reception-
camps, the ships or even the D.P. camps
in Europe. It is part of the universal
tragedy of war. Although the youngsters
who reached Australia only in time to die
were not bom when the war in Europe
ended their deaths rightly belong to the
casualty-lists of World War 11.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Parliament's Reputation.
This now fast dying eighteenth Parlia-
ment in Canberra is so far lost to the
need for upholding its prestige, and even
the decencies of debate, that only last
week did it come to pronounce upon
three motions of censure against the
Deputy-Speaker—motions tabled 10, six
and two months ago. The first of these
motions, especially, was prompted by
such vehement indignation in the House
and such palpable injustice from the
Chair that it ought to have been dealt
with immediately—last November.
That it was not is explained by a state-
ment from the Prime Minister some
months ago, in one instalment of the
serial debate —a statement which should
effectually discount any admirers’ claims
for him as a great Parliamentarian —that
the Speaker must be supported by the
Government under all circumstances
“right or wrong.” The case was one in
which the Minister for Information —yes,
Information —grossly slandered an Oppo-
sition member (Mr. Adermann of the
Country party) by reading out (and
broadcasting over the radio report of
Parliament) an alleged letter which he
refused to table so that the House might
see it, or to give the writer’s name. The
row began thus:
Mr. Adermann: That is a lie.
Deputy-Speaker: I ask the member to
withdraw the expression “lie.”
Mr. Adermann: I withdraw. I ask the
Minister to withdraw his statement. It is
offensive.
Deputy-Speaker: The Minister is en-
titled to make his speech in his own way.
I shall not allow him to be interrupted.
Nor would the Prime Minister permit
the formal motion of protest against the
Deputy-Speaker, of which notice was
promptly given, to be debated until late
in February last or proceed to a decision
until last week. On Thursday the Leader
of the Opposition, taking up the debate,
wiped the floor with “Labor” Ministers,
the “Labor” ranks, and the “Labor”
Chair. They heard him in stricken silence.
He was preceded by Mr. Dedman, put up
to move, 10 months late, an amendment
which, in effect, congratulated the Deputy-
Speaker on his “ability and impartiality.”
The result was in accord with Mr.
Chifiey’s hint that a vote in censure of
the Deputy-Speaker would be censure
of the Government itself.
Under “Labor” government the
Speaker has not only strictly preserved
his partisan entity, descending to the floor
to take part in, debates, but has simul-
taneously with the Speakership held ad-
ministrative office in the Government.
Mr Speaker Rosevear, during whose ill-
ness these complaints against Deputy-
Speaker Clark have occurred, originally
held Government office also as Controller
of Footwear, until at length even this
Ministry recognised that both the Speaker
and his high office were becoming
embarrassed,
“The dignity and authority” of Parlia-
ment, the phrase which Mr. Dedman
mouthed so smoothly, was never lower
than at this close of a chapter in the
Federal Parliament’s career with No. 18 —
the last of the series in the numerical
strength as devised by the founders of
the Constitution. The worst aspect of the
decline is that Ministers either ignore it
or condone it. If Mr. Chifley does not
like the charge of condoning the debase-
ment of Parliament’s prestige—and this
is something beyond the deliberate en-
hancement of caucus over Parliament as
the moulder of legislation—let him ex-
plain why the Ministry tried to smother
up the Keane trunks case, involving the
late Minister for Customs, and why it
was enough for him in the New Guinea
timber scandal that the Minister for
Transport was adjudged by a royal com-
mission not to have participated in any
bribe-taking—that in his view, as Leader
of the House, it was immaterial, appar-
ently, that the Minister did not know
what had been going on for some two or
three years in a matter that vitally con-
cerned his department, through the
machinations of an old and close friend
the precise nature of whose paid duties as
a Government officer (with ready access
to the Minister and to the Minister’s
private office) have never been explained.
As The Bulletin has already said:
Financial integrity is not the only quali-
fication demanded of an administrator —
or of a Government. The evil done to
Parliament’s own self-respect as a body
is obvious when such protests are laughed
or bludgeoned out of its own court by a
regimented Government majority.
Secrets of Marx House.
After the raid on the Communist head-
quarters in Marx House, Sydney, more
than two months ago it was indicated
that all sorts of incriminating documents
had been seized.
A fortnight later, after there had been
time to sift the spoils, Information
Minister Calwell told a Domain audience
that the Government had all the informa-
tion it wanted from the raid. He added
“We will smash this strike first and deal
with these things afterwards,” and spoke
of the “nitwits at Marx House who are
not yet in jail, but who soon will be.”
When Parliament reassembled last week
members were naturally curious to learn
what action was intended. They were
told by Dr. Evatt that “it would be con-
trary to public interest to indicate any
information that was obtained,” and by
Mr. Chifley that to ban the Communist
party would be “a complete futility,” be-
cause “it is far better to have vour enemy
wearing his uniform so you know whom
you are fighting.”
The Chifley-Evatt declarations suggest
three comments: (1) Proof would be
welcome that their Government is fight-
ing the Communists; (2) some of the
Comrades seem remarkably adept at
changing into and out of “Labor” uni-
forms ; (3) apparently it is in the public
interest for the Communists to carry on
their activities above ground, but it is
not in the public interest for the public to
know too much about those activities.
Or is the whole sum of it that “public
interest” needs to be translated “Govern-
ment interest”?
Wool Must Be Free.
Canberra voices urging a Government-
controlled wool-marketing scheme after
the Joint Organisation winds up next
June probably got wind of Stafford
Cripps’s intention to air in Washington
a proposal to include wool with rubber
and other sterling products in an Inter-
national Commodity Control Agreement,
which Cripps believes may help solve the
dollar-sterling mess.
Cripps probably had his eye on the
International Wheat Agreement, which is
supposed to fix top and bottom wheat
prices, with guaranteed purchases by
wheat-buying countries. This I.W.A. —
as full of holes as a colander, though no
advocate of Government-control would
admit it —has already involved Australian
growers in heavy losses.
The Australian Wool Board’s excellent
monthly “Wool Digest” states em-
phatically that “the United Kingdom
wool trade is up in arms” against the
Cripps proposal, because the trade sees
it as a “threat to open marketing of wool
by auction,” since you can’t have open
auctions while you have official alloca-
tions of purchases. When the auctions
conflicted with the allocations would be
the moment for signatory Governments
to take control of wool marketing.
Australia’s dollar shortage results
partly from reduced American buying of
Australian wool, but there’d be no
remedy for that in Government control.
The “Wool Digest” remarks that the
United Kingdom wool-men “believe they
have the support of the Australian wool
industry in resisting any such move” as
that of Stafford Cripps, and in that the
U.K. men are definitely right.
Petrol Bungling.
On petrol, the Canberra Government’s
argument is that the Empire dollar posi-
tion prevents Australia buying sufficient
for all its needs and that if some form
of rationing isn’t imposed there will be,
this summer, what it calls “chaos.”
Anti-rationing argument is that the
Government is too anxious to yield to
the British Socialist Government’s will
and that large quantities of petrol can be
obtained from sources outside the dollar-
sterling influence.
The latter contention is proved to some
extent by an oil company’s purchase of
3i million gallons of Russian petrol, and
by an almost forgotten statement that if
it weren’t for the Communist-run Water-
side Workers’ ban on Dutch ship-
ping Australia could obtain petrol from
the Netherlands East Indies without
affecting the dollar position.
As Socialists the Chifleys are committed
to a policy of “organised scarcity,” with-
out which they could not have centralised
control of commodities through, in this
case, import restrictions. The word “re-
strict” is implicit in Socialism.
A good Government, faced with an
imminent petrol shortage, would have
strained to find more sources of supply.
The Chifley Government, though it has
highly-paid Consuls, Trade Commissioners
and Ministers almost everywhere in the
world, apparently made no such effort.
It was left to private concerns in Mel-
bourne and Sydney to make it, as they
did. Even then import licences were
granted with grudging reluctance.
Most people are mighty suspicious of
any form of rationing, because of the
rampant blackmarkets that accompany
it, the muddling and arrogance of ration-
ing officials, the desperate clinging by the
Chifleys to war-time controls. There is
also the strong suspicion that some official
persons do very well indeed out of ration-
ing.
On all counts, moving the petrol
censure motion has had the same com-
plete justification as the string of others
directed at the failings of a failing Gov-
ernment.
Sugar Joins the Spiral.
Australians are practically certain to
be paying sd. a pound for sugar before
the end of the year. Before the growls
arise a few facts should be stated.
Sugar production adds considerably to
the national wealth, and the settlement
of the Queensland growing country has
extended population into a northern area
which might otherwise have remained
empty. The comparatively cheap price
to the user was held despite enormous
increases in costs of growing and refining.
And if we are to have a 40-hour week
and high wages we must expect to pay.
Over two years ago sugar-industry
representatives asked the Prime Minister
to agree, under the Commonwealth Sugar
Agreement, to restoration of the £d.-a-
pound cut imposed in the depression. In
December, 1947, the wholesale price of
refined sugar was increased by 12| p.c.,
(Continued at foot of next page.)
“FOR WHAT WE ARE CONDEMNED TO RECEIVE”


iCee
P
to
i
c *AVEWa
4Vv
/V
il;
€
Ttemim
/
7741 E/R
CARRERAS LIMITED
OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
from £33 4s. a ton to £37 6s. Bd. But
costs have so mounted since that the
industry gets nothing out of the 1947 in-
crease and will have to find probably
another £1 a ton. It is seeking an in-
crease of £4 2s. Bd. a ton, equal to an-
other id. a pound on the retail price.
How the costs have mounted: Inter-
State shipping rates on sugar up 10s. to
15s. a ton ; wages up about 28 p.c. since
1947 (10 p.c. through the 40-hour week,
the balance through general rises);
Queensland rail freights on sugarcane up
37i p.c., on raw sugar 22\ p.c.; repair
and replacement costs for machinery in
mills and on farms up 66 to 100 p.c.,
apart from cost of delays and short sup-
plies.
Except in Mexico, Denmark, Argentina
and Peru, Australians now get their sugar
cheaper than anyone else in the world.
We paid 6d, for it in 1920, 4|d. from
1923 to 1932, 4d. from 1933 to 1947,
since when it has been 4jd. That is a
notable achievement in stable prices, and,
though nobody is anxious to pay more,
it is hard to see how this can be helped
if sugar-farmers are to make a do of it.
None the less, it is another example of
how the spiral of rising costs, once started
by some such premature legislation as
the N.S.W, 40-hour week, keeps on spiral-
ling upward.
POLITICAL POINTS
Coalminers have for years been feed-
ing themselves on doses of self-pity. It
seems to be time they tried another
medicine. The Gallagher award gives
them three months’ leave on full pay after
10 years’ service, first leave not to be
taken before 1954. Outside the Public
Service few Australians enjoy the privi-
lege of long-service leave. Of those who
do it is required that their service shall
be long —usually 15 to 20 years—and
continuous; also, it must be marked by
faithful service and good behavior.
In making his award Mr. Gallagher
stressed that it was continuity of service
that counted, not mere continuity of em-
ployment ; time on the job, not time on
the books. Leave is to accrue on a basis
of one-eighth of a day for each five con-
secutive shifts worked. In any district
where a strike occurs the award is to be
suspended “until the Tribunal decides
otherwise.” The value of this provision
depends on whether it is meant to apply
to one-day stoppages and individual pits
or only to major strikes affecting a whole
field. Since the war petty stoppages have
caused a greater, loss of production than
large-scale strikes. On Thursday miners
in one pit greeted the announcement of
the award by walking off the job as a pro-
test against the strings attached to it, and
at the weekend the Miners’ Federation
central council recorded its “intense dis-
satisfaction” with what it described as a
“disruptive” award.
For months Chifley has been telling
Fadden there was no possibility of
getting extra petrol without using
dollars; last week an import licence
was granted for 2>\ million gallons
of Polish petrol and it seems there’s
more to come. For months Fadden
has been suggesting an American loan ; in
his Budget speech Chifley said his Gov-
ernment was “examining the possibility of
borrowing as a means to provide addi-
tional dollars.” The P.M. has now found
that “there are various possible sources
of dollar borrowing.” Fadden told him
that, also, weeks ago.
J. M. Baddeley has resigned from the
N. S. Wales Ministry and Parliament, pos-
sibly as a gesture towards a “Labor”
movement for youth in politics. While
Minister for Mines he brought in the
rule which makes it compulsory for em-
ployees in the coalmining industry to
retire at 60. He now goes to a seven-
year appointment as Director of State
Coal Mines at £2500 a year. There is
some argument as to whether he will be
74 or only 73 when his contract runs out.
Hanlon “Labor” withstood two
attacks on Saturday and retained the
Ipswich and Kurilpa seats in the
Assembly. A Liberal attempt to make
petrol-rationing a last-minute issue by
the distribution of thousands of dodgers
had the wind taken out of its sails by
the Menzies-Fadden recommendation to
the States to accept rationing under pro-
test. Queenslanders seem consistently to
refuse to let Federal issues influence
State elections. And, of course, the State
rolls are a little different from the Com-
monwealth rolls.
According to British Prime Minister
Attlee it is “bad economics and bad
social morality” for a man to claim a
margin between his own and the wages
of a less skilful or less industrious man.
Attlee’s view is that the skilled man should
remain on his high-income level and not
complain if the income of the less skilled
is brought up to it. This is an application
of Socialist theory which is destroying
incentive and encouraging the loafer both
in Britain and Australia.
In his Budget speech Chifley claimed
that our manufacturing capacity had in-
creased by 50 per cent, and that “there
are 40 per cent, more people at work.”
At work, yes, but how many working?
Under the present Price Control Act
in N. S. Wales an employer is liable for
the act of an employee who sells goods
above the fixed price
unless the court is satisfied that the sale
took place without his knowledge and that
he has systematically used all due diligence
to secure observance of the Act.
The Act, which expires on September
19, is being re-enacted, and for some
reason the proviso has been deleted from
the bill so that under the new act the
employer will be held responsible no
matter what the circumstances. The
alteration seems to fly in the face of
justice and cbmmonsense—so much so
that two “Labor” members of the
Assembly opposed it when it came be-
fore the House. Landa (Bondi) asked the
Minister to reconsider the amendment and
Gollan (Randwick) urged him to alter the
bill before it went to the Council.
Extracts from a McGirr eulogy of his
newly-appointed Director of State Coal
Mines:
Cabinet concluded that the outstanding
coal authority in New South Wales, indeed,
in Australia, is the man who has been
Minister for Mines in so many Govern-
ments in this State —the present Minister
for Mines, Mr. Baddeley won his spurs
on the coalfield... .practical coalminer....
president of the Miners’ Federation....
unanimous choice of the party as Minister
for Mines engaged by Governments to
travel to other countries to acquaint him-
self with the latest and most scientific
methods of coal production All hon.
members should rejoice that he has so
honored the State as to accept this position,
and should offer their congratulations to
Mr. Baddeley upon his high public spirit
in doing so.
The cheers that greeted the announce-
ment would have done credit to a chorus
of deaf-mutes. “Hansard” records orily
words, not thoughts, otherwise the
Premier’s speech might have concluded,
“Now, Jack, it’s your turn to scratch my
back.”
Life still holds a few surprises even for
a president of U.N.O. One day last week
Bert Evatt was going to Lake Success
for the General Assembly meeting; the
next day he wasn’t.
According to the A.L.P. “Standard,”
Kennelly, secretary of Federal “Labor,”
laughed when his attention was drawn
to a report that Dedman, Lemmon and
Barnard might lose their seats. “It’s
wishful thinking,” he said. “Mr. Dedman
can’t lose ; Mr. Barnard can’t lose and
Mr. Lemmon’s seat is 1000 better than
last time.” As a true-blue “Labor” man
Kennelly ought to know that thousands
of pounds are lost every Saturday on
horses that simply can’t lose.
Kennelly can afford to laugh; the
three Ministers may be excused for show-
ing no signs of merriment. Tipsters have
nominated all three as possible starters
for the London High Commissionership
or for the Washington job if Makin moves
across the Atlantic. After the last election
jobs were found for a batch of defeated
“Labor” members. This time those in
shaky seats may think it wiser to follow
the Baddeley lead.
“Labor” rebels in Sydney gave as a
reason for their revolt that the Chifley
Government was “becoming more Liberal
than the Liberals.” Menzies charged
Chifley with taking his anti-strike
measures direct from the Liberal party.
The P.M. has recognised Fadden’s repre-
sentations, in form though not in words,
by consenting to seek petrol in non-dollar
areas. Last week, in the caucus-meeting
on the Budget the day before Parliament
heard its details, Chifley told his party
(according to Melbourne “Age” report)
that “he believed a national superannua-
tion plan would soon have to be con-
sidered for all social services, placing
them on a contributory basis, and making
them available as a right, without any
means test.” This has been urged by
Menzies and Fadden for a long time, and
as regularly pooh-poohed by Chifley and
his Ministers.
When the New Guinea Timber debate
was adjourned on July 7, Eddie Ward
was probably pleased to have the dis-
cussion carried over into the final session ;
by now he possibly has different feelings
on the subject. When the debate was
resumed last Wednesday only three Gov-
ernment members were put up to speak—
Chambers, who held the fort for Ward
during his suspension, Williams and the
East Sydney pet’s erstwhile bosom pal,
Calwell. A lot of things have happened
since the adjournment, and Ward’s coal-
strike attitude may have won him some
support among the Comrades, but it can
hardly have done him much good with
those who stuck to the party line. Two
A.L.P. branches in his electorate have
had their charters withdrawn and three
of their officials have been expelled from
the party for condemning the Govern-
ment action on the strike.
For the £l2 million-worth of wool she
bought from Australia last year Russia
paid an average price of 65d. a pound,
the highest average for wool shipped up
to last May. Does this mean we can
expect some Russian scientist to announce
the discovery that wool has a crimp in
it?
Attention, Senator Cameron:
A year ago, in reply to questions regarding
the activities of R. E. Wellard, secretary of
the N. S. Wales branch of the Amalgamated
Postal Workers’ Union, the Prime Minister said
that he was regarded as an active member of
the Communist party and that
it was understood that Wellard recom-
mended a regulation strike at a general
meeting on August 24 last of the postal
workers concerned. The Federal executive,
however, took charge of the dispute, which
was settled without any stoppage.
The attitude of the N. S. Wales executive
towards direct action is shown by its support
of the recent coal strike.
The Federal executive referred to by Mr.
Chifley used to be chosen at the annual con-
ference, votes of State delegates carrying equal
value, but at the last conference the rules were
changed so that it is now elected by ballot at
the same time as State executives. Only the
N. S. Wales and Queensland delegates voted
for the change, but under the constitution of
the union their votes (on the basis of financial
membership) outweighed those of the four other
States, and the motion was carried. Also at
the instance of the N. S. Wales and Queensland
nominees, and on the strength of their votes
alone, it was decided that between meetings
of the executive its power should lie in the
president, vice-president, secretary and assistant-
secretary, and that the executive should have
power, on the request of a branch, “to authorise
the holding of stopwork meetings or such
other forms of industrial action as may be
necessary in furtherance of the policy of the
union as determined by annual conference.”
The Wellard group does not yet control the
Federal executive, but at the election being held
this month they are making a strong bid for
it. If they are successful they will be in a
position to submit the Postmaster-General’s
department to the irritation tactics of stopwork
meetings and the threat of a general hold-up.
Of their willingness to do so, what Mr. Chifley
“understood” last year should be sufficient
evidence.
Brisbane’s Lord Mayor Chandler is
disturbed by the fact that there is in-
creasing ownership of land by the Com-
monwealth and State in Brisbane, on
which no rates are paid, and that great
lumps of the Commonwealth’s share of
it are being leased to private concerns
which also don’t have to pay rates.
Union tyranny just about reached its
limit when the Boilermakers’ Union fined
five of its members £5 each for accept-
ing 200 free £1 shares each in the com-
pany which employed them. They were
fined because “they committed a breach
of the award and broke the rules of the
union by making an agreement outside
the award without the approval of the
union.” From this it’s but a step to
asking the union’s permission before
buying a beer.
In what he called a “well-kept surprise”
but which the beneficiaries will regard as
rank election-bait, Pollard announced that
£25 million of the hoarded wool-profits
would be paid to graziers within the next
two months. The sum represents nearly
half a pre-war national wool cheque,
but it looks more like a benefit for the
Treasury than anyone else, since the
amount will be taxed as 1949-50 income.
Pollard’s “well-kept surprise,” of course,
is nothing more than a payment to people
of their own money, which they should
have got long ago. Is the suggestion that
they might be surprised at getting it at
all?
Hanlon has had to tell Queenslanders
that the great Blair Athol scheme has
folded up. The British experts hired to
report on it have told him that it would
need £25 million capital for an annual
output of 3i million tons of coal. The
experts don’t believe private interests
could raise so much cash, and they invite
the Queensland and Commonwealth
Governments to come in on it. Hanlon
asserts that he is “determined to develop
Blair Athol on a large scale.” Not if
the Corns running the Miners’ Federation
can block it.
The Baddeley appointment means
that Cessnock will have a by-election on
October 8 as well as Redfern. There was
a move to by-pass the customary pre-
selection ballot and give the nomination
to W. Crook, president of the northern
miners, but on Sunday the Cessnock
electoral council demanded a ballot. In
the meantime there is a mighty pushing
and shoving among McGirr Ministers
eager to succeed Baddeley as Deputy-
Premier and among rank-and-filers am-
bitious of a portfolio.
Much of the tongue-banging going on
in the Federal Parliament just now is due
to the fact that each of the parties is fight-
ing the enemy with his own weapon,
“He-Ne”: In their haste to abolish
land-sales control the States apparently
forgot about soldier-settlement—some
people say it has been forgotten anyway
—which is certain to be slowed down
by that action. In promotion cases, dis-
tinct from acquisition cases in that the
soldier is assisted to buy from the private
landholder, it’s unlikely that private
owners will now be satisfied with 1942
valuations plus 15 p.c., which constitutes
the basis of the Commonwealth-States
contract. Even acquired estates may have
something to say about arbitrary values.
Intending settlers have hitherto preferred
the promotion lands, since they can
usually get on to them much more
quickly, but promotion will now become
dealing. H. L. Simpson, chairman of
Victorian Soldier Settlement Commission,
reckons removal of controls will cost the
two Governments £12,000,000 in his State
alone.


Society
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH.WIMBLES INKS
“Bo”: I came down to breakfast one
morning last week to find the wife, her
face radiant and her eyes shining, holding
the paper. “Darling,” she exalted, “our
tough times are over. We’re practically
on Easy Street!” “Don’t tell me we’ve
won something in an art-union,” I said
with firm unbelief, “Don’t be silly,
dear,” she replied. “It’s Mr, Chifley’s
Budget—here's the list of the things on
which he’s reduced the Sales Tax. We’ll
practically make our fortune on what
we’ll save. You know how we’ve always
wanted an incense-burner, well, the tax
on it is down. Isn’t it gorgeous? And
you know how you’re always wearing out
your sovereign cases —they’ll be cheaper,
too. So will slippery-dips and ferris-
wheels —the tax-slug on the last ferris-
wheel you bought nearly ruined us, re-
member? And what with the saving on
all the statuary, kites, cocktail-picks and
bird-cages—and you know how many of
those I have to get every week —we’ll save
enough to have that long-overdue holiday
you’ve never been able to afford.” I
kissed her, grabbed my hat and made
for the door, “I won’t bother about
breakfast,” I said. “I can’t get to the shop
quick enough to buy a shooting-stick. I
believe the sales tax on them is now only
eight and a third per cent. Isn’t it
wonderful?”
* * * *
“Karrimba”: Melbourne is at least
honest on the Sunday-paper question.
One can’t say the same of Adelaide, which
has no Sunday paper, but nevertheless
has a paper delivered to its doors each
Sabbath morning. It’s all very simple.
“ Grandpa— not so hard!”
The “Mail” street-edition comes out after
the races on Saturday; the “late” edition
can be purchased on the way home from
the pictures; and the midnight edition —•
• but there’s the solution! Officially theie
is no Sunday paper, but apparently no
law preventing delivery of Saturday's
papers on Sunday morning. It works out
pretty well if you remember on Sunday
that today is really tomorrow, and that
you are reading yesterday’s race results
as today’s.
“Becks”: I’m aware that visitors to
zoos delight to throw biscuits to the bears,
peanuts to the monkeys and tennis-balls
to the hippo, but I refuse to believe that
there is among aquarium habituds any
widespread natural impulse to throw
pennies to the sharks. For that reason
I view with grave suspicion a notice in
a Sydney aquarium requesting patrons to
refrain from this practice on the grounds
that copper is injurious to the sea mon-
sters, My knowledge of natural history
is limited, yet I doubt very much whether
a grey-nurse which will wolf down any-
thing from a human leg to a sackful of
old bottles would suffer any grave in-
ternal disorders through swallowing the
change of a bob. At the same time I
must admit that the floor of the pool
wherein the sharks disport is littered with
coins. My guess is that they have all
been thrown in since the notice was put
up, the proprietor of the show having
shrewdly capitalised the inherent tendency
of the Australian to disobey orders. The
wording of the warning shows a touch
of genius. Not only are pennies freely
contributed by habitual regulation-
breakers ; the law-abiding, taking the
notice literally, throw in threepences and
sixpences apparently on the reasoning
that if copper is harmful to sharks silver
must be beneficial.
* * * *
“Plop”: The lady next door holds the
official rain-gauge for the district, and
when she went on holidays she asked me
to take care of it. She explained all the
paper-work involved, and brought the
gauge cylinder in from the post in her
yard and set in up on the grass in mine.
She said it would be all right down there
on the ground as the yard was so open
from above. Well, I’ve been dutifully
recording the district’s rain, but this morn-
ing I had a great shock. I find that when
Cecil, my bull-dog, is let out in the
morning to commune with nature, he
pauses at the rain-gauge cylinder. If, in
reply to my first lot of returns, the
Department of Meteorology wants further
information on the district’s new figures
they’ll have to work it out with Cecil.
* . * * *
“Mac Hoots”: A lug-biter once took
two shillings from me in a Sydney street
on the grounds that he urgently needed a
feed and, of course, dived into the nearest
pub. The next day, at the same place, he
told me the same hard-luck story and I
considered myself insulted. It was not
the affront to my intelligence, for I didn’t
believe him the first time; but he might
at least have recognised his benefactor of
the day before. Since then I have been a
little cold towards these gentlemen ; but
a seedy and whiskery soul at Circular
Quay managed to touch me—in two
senses of the term —once again. His spiel
went like this, in a frank, man-to-man
style: “Sorry to trouble you, mate, but
the truth is I’ve just come out of jail...”
This was, of course, at least partly a lie;
for though jail very likely lies behind him
and jail ahead, he breathed a delicate
aroma of plonk, which is not customarily
served to departing felons. But who
could resist such an appeal—especially
these days* when the recent presence of
so many misguided union-leaders has
made Long Bay almost a respectable
address?
♦ * ♦ *
“Loc”: The city’s paper-sellers
hoarsely cry the news, shout behind you
and make you jump, and seem actually
to cherish murders and the like, but
recently I struck one who brought a grin
to all who heard him. Still calling in his
loud monotone he moved from his stand
across to the threshold of the pub near
by, poked his head through the door and,
without altering his pitch, exclaimed:
“Fi - nal-ex-tra-Sun-or-Mirr-or-schoon-er-
Ma-bel,”
* * ♦ *
“Transporticus”: There was a colli-
sion between two electric trains outside
London recently; two persons were
killed and seven injured. The driver of
one train left a station in the face of a
signal showing danger. He’d have got
away with that if the
signalman in the box
ahead hadn’t been
washing his hands when
the preceding train
passed him, and failed
to set the next signal
to danger immediately
the train passed. The
offending driver, having
missed one signal, came
to the next to find it
showing clear, and
sailed by to meet his
death a few seconds
later. In Australia, if
a driver should start off
in the face of the glar-
ing red signal the auto-
matic train-stop would
pull him up in a car
length. Furthermore,
Australian signals are
not affected by the
ablutionary habits of
signalmen ; they flash to
danger as soon as a
train passes them. The
interesting point is this.
That smash, due, like
so many of recent years
in the U.K., to obsolete
signalling practice, took
place on the Southern
Region, whose chief
regional officer, John
Eliot, has just been
out here telling Victorians how to run
railways.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: Catching a tram for the
Sydney suburb of Waterloo reminded me
that though it is 97 years ago today
since the Duke of Wellington died, many
of the terms he put into the English
language survive, though sundry minor
and two world wars have occurred since
then. A person still “meets his Waterloo”
in love, business and sport, “Wellington”
boots are still advertised and in the cow
country “Blucher” boots are still worn.
“There was a sound of revelry by night”
is apt to be quoted whenever a suitable
occasion arises, the controversy as to
whether the Duke said “Up, Guards, and
at ’em” or not still rages, and on radio
quizzes we hear questions like “What
name was given to the period between
Napoleon’s escape from Elba and his
defeat at Waterloo?” For the British, of
course, Waterloo removed a threat to their
independence and gave them a century of
unchallenged mastery of the sea and un-
paralleled expansion throughout the
world, so it’s little wonder that nearly a
century after the death of the man who
won the battle Waterloo should still be
remembered in our language.
% * * * *
“Ymar”.; Major Maskelyne (B.
3/ 8 / ’49), although an expert illusionist,
dispelled the prejudice against him as a
mere actor only when he camouflaged a
machine-gun post in a large open meadow
so skilfully that Lord Gort and his staff
did not see it until they were within 6ft.
of it. From then on his stage-learnt art
was employed in 17 countries. In Eng-
land this art produced from cardboard,
canvas and flimsies guns sufficiently
realistic to deceive enemy reconnaissance
planes, even an immense spoof army to
“man” the beaches and deter invasion.
In Egypt Maskelyne and the “crazy
gang” under his command had head-
quarters in Magic Valley, and reproduced
Alexandria Harbor a mile away at Mariut
Bay so effectively that the Axis wasted
much effort and explosive on it.
* * ♦ *
“Brolga”: Beside my typewriter lay the
MS. of the first chapter of a novel,
coupons cut from two daily papers and a
soap company’s leaflet. I pondered. If
I carry on with the novel —and at the
present rate of progress I estimated it
would take about 300 hours to complete
it —I could enter it for a morning paper’s
Literary Competition with a first prize
of £lOOO out of which the Taxation
Department would claim a solid cut. Be-
sides the labor of actually writing the
novel it would cost me about 10s. for
paper and carbon, 2s. 6d. for registered
postage and an uncertain amount for
wear and tear of the typewriter and the
seat of my pants. It would be many
months before I knew if the novel had
any merit in the judges’ eyes, and during
those months the novel would be tied
up, so that I would not be able to submit
it to any other publisher. On the other
hand, if I put in an hour or two of deep
thinking and fluked a name for an
imaginary racehorse or an absurd picture
which, along with an entry fee of 6d.,
happened to catch the judges’ eyes I
might also cop a thousand quid or better,
and it would be tax-free. Or if I could
get the right six syllables—the ultimate a
rhyme for “blue” —I would have a chance
of being presented with a washing-
machine and a car. After half an hour’s
consideration of the best way to put my
“I AM holding my breath!”
evening to profit I decided to take a
chance of getting ray efforts into print and
earning due payment for them. Hence
this par.
* * * *
“Clooter”: Nobody is more worried
about the petrol situation than a business
colleague of mine. “My brother-in-law
has a car,” he said, “and he’s been hoping
to drive his missus and their two kids to
Melbourne for Christmas. It’s a long
time since they’ve been to Melbourne,
where the wife’s mother lives, and I hope
he can make it. Y’ see, it’d take about
50 gallons for the trip, an’ if they bring in
rationing again he’ll have to scramble
round on the ‘black’ or borrow the stuff
from friends, an’ the closer Christmas
comes the less chance he’s got of making
his plans. I wish the heads would do
something definite; the strain’s too
much.” I couldn’t- help but comment
on this unusual sympathy for an-
other’s problems. “Cheer up,” I
said. “After all, it isn’t you who’ll
have to miss the trip if they do ration.”
“No,” he said, gloomily, “but if him an’
his ruddy family don’t go t’ Melbourne
they’ll come an’ stay with us, like they’ve
done for the past five Christmases.”
* * * *
“W.E.F.” on a trip to the Lawson
country:
Mudgee (N.S.W.) —the Solong and Redclay
of many Lawson stories —did itself proud on
the occasion of the unveiling of the Henry
Lawson Memorial at Eurunderee and the dedi-
cation of the site as a national reserve. The
memorial stands where stood the boyhood home
of the poet; only the chimney and fireplace
and an ivy-covered portion of a verandah-post
remain. These, with a stone shelter-shed, have
been enclosed by a square of low stone walls.
A tablet, suitably inscribed, was unveiled by
the poet’s widow, Bertha. The ceremony was
marked by some excellent speeches and the
presentation of the deeds of the site by the
owner of the property. A choir of small girls
sang a number of Australian songs, and a
nipper from the local school recited Lawsons
poem “Eurunderee.” To an inexperienced
townsman’s eye the old place and its surround-
ings looked pleasant and fresh and green
enough, but as Lawson made clear in several
of his stories, it comprised barren soil that
barely provided a living for the diggers who
remained there to scratch the earth, raise crops
and a family after the goldfields had petered
out. The scene of so much of Lawson’s best
work, the district is rich in association for
Lawson lovers. Three hundred carloads ot
friends and relations of Lawson, admirers ot
his work, representatives of historical ana
literary societies, authors, a small contingent
of politicians, and, so it seemed, half the
population of Mudgee made the five-mile
journey from Mudgee along the dusty Gulgong-
road. Earlier in the day the Mayor of Mudgee
and the president of the Cudgegong bhire
Council gave a civic reception and a luncheon
to the visitors, and in the evening there was a
concert in the Mudgee Town Hall. On display
in the bookshops of the town were copies 01
Lawson’s works, some of them autographed
copies, caricatures and photographs of the poet,
and in the window of a newsagency a pair 01
spectacles that Lawson wore. In Picturesqu
Lawson Park on the bank of the willow-fringed
Cudgegong River a girl-reporter from a tar-
western newspaper boiled a billy, ate a luncheo
of damper and corned beef and read Lawso
verse. “I think,” she said to me, that Lawso
must have eaten many a simple meal on
bank of this river. I feel that he would be
more at home here than lunching with the e
in the best hotel in the town. .1 h ea .
with the elite in the best hotel in town,
I felt that she had the right idea.
A WORD TO THE WISE.
“According to a French police Burgeon, a hair
dye based on paraphenylenediamine could have
caused the death of a woman who died recently
In Lyons.’’
Cleopatra, Queen of Romance,
Found three letters killed her plenty;
She had not the modern woman’s
Scientific sweet-and-twenty,
Who, as golden years go by her.
Not for death, but beauty, tries
Paraphenylenedia-
mine to dye with, but still dies.
When Porphyria’s lover strangled
With her hair that beauteous broad,
He remarked (his thoughts were tangled)
“God has not yet said a word”:
Though he felt there wasn’t any
Comment could have been abundant.
But, like “Paraphenylene-
diamine,'” would seem redundant.
Some may tell a cheerful story
Of this basest base of rare dyes,
How a woman’s crowning glory
Is to end her days with hair-dyes,
Or, they say, should she be senile,
Somewhat close with her affairs.
Then how welcome paraphenyl-
enediamine to heirs!
But it shocks all kindly souls to
Think that women should be killable
When they bring their silly polls to
Bear upon a polysyllable;
Thus, when any rash long-hairer
Makes you crave an anodyne,
Softly, softly murmur ‘‘Para-
phenylenediamine I”
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
&
JACKSON^
OSIUXIVAx
■ r, rixim *
E»s
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jaxul” window face envelopes
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
don’t buy
unless he can answer "Yes"
to this important question
m
y,
No matter whether it’s a refrigerator or practically
any other item of domestic “machinery” —ask whether
it* a constructed with COMROL Steel. If the salesman
MFTS FOR INDUSTRY
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS PIT. LTD.
Head Office and Works: Port Kembla, N.S.W,
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED-GENERAL SALES AGENTS.
SYDNEY: 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE: 70-84 Clarendon Street. South
Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street. BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen
Street. FREMANTLE: Corner of Short and Pakenham Streets. WELLINGTON.
N.Z.: John Lysaght's Bristol Works Limited.
can answer “Yes,” you can buy
with complete assurance that
Steel gives enduring STAMINA
you are making a lifetime
to such domestic equipment.
investment. Comrol Sheet
HUNTER
CIGARETTES
r
i
/
%
K
r / 1
L/wm
ttUHIiS
V
A
V
£
r
ii
s
W
m
&
c o*
fy>A
JSD
faveaHunW
... .and again smoke
a favoured blend
2'9 for 20
EVERYWHERE
DISTRIBUTORS MAURICE NEWSTEAD PIY. LTD. »a CASTLEREASH STREET. SYDNEY
“Bevelry”: It was Mudgee’s big day
of the Lawson celebrations. Outside the
Town Hall, just before the civic reception
to Henry’s widow and the official party,
a couple of guardians of the law were
stationed, presumably to preserve seemly
conduct on the part of the literary pil-
grims. A deplorable character hovering
on the pavement suddenly became a trifle
too apparent. He mumbled incoherencies,
and several inches of shirt-tail drooping
over dingy bags were only momentarily
permitted to engage the public’s attention.
Fifty per cent, of the assembled force
pounced, and the mumblings subsided as
the depressed one was propelled down
the street to the police-station. Action
necessary probably, but an untidy reflec-
tion obtruded —whatever would Henry
have thought?
* * * *
“Mercury”: Some housewives in
Brighton (Vic.) have got the home-
delivery game by the throat. An ex-
Digger, with a small car, has established
a messenger service, and in a few weeks
has enlisted 60 customers. On each of
these he calls daily, collects orders for
meat, groceries, vegetables, fruit and any-
thing else required and delivers the goods
on the following day. For this service
the housewife pays 2s. a week, and the
traders allow the messenger 10 per cent,
commission on orders. The scheme is
working well; it seems to be an idea
which should spread.
* * * ♦
“X.M.N.”: I have always wanted to
know the answer to this. If anyone can
tell me I’d like to hear it. Just before the
Jap came in fighting I was second mate
of the motor-ship Mulcra, trading be-
tween Adelaide and Melbourne, with a
call at Kingston, near Cape Jaffa. We
were due at Kingston at noon, and about
9 o’clock we received the general sub-
marine alarm from Adelaide Radio. The
pilot of an A.N.A. plane had reported
sighting a submarine on the surface; he
said it was in contact with the beach by
small boat at a spot about eight miles
north of Kingston along the lonely Coo-
rong coast. I can still remember how
happy I was when we tied up at the
jetty. There had been a great to-do in
Kingston. The locals had turned out in
force to repel the invaders. They didn’t
find anyone, but there was evidence that
there had been a boat on the beach. It’s
an ideal spot for landing anyone; there
wouldn’t be more than a couple of cars
a day using the road. I picture a swift
run to Adelaide and another agent well
established.
* * * *
“Uramao”: Memories of the part New
Zealand played in the Boer War were
revived by the presentation to the Otago
Early Settlers’ Association of the sword
of Sir Alfred Robin, who took the
first contingent of New Zealanders to
South Africa in 1899. The sword was
presented to the general after the
war by the citizens of Dunedin;
“In future, Bertha, I think We'll get a chimney-sweep .”
it bears the date September 25, 1901.
Robin commanded the New Zealand
mounted troop which went to London in
1897 for Queen Victoria’s diamond
jubilee. He was acting-commander of
the forces in N.Z. during the first World
War, and from 1920 to 1922 was acting-
Administrator of Western Samoa. The
sword was given to the Early Settlers’
Association by the general’s family,
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: If bygone French-
polishers had not been alcoholics by
tradition (B. 17/8/’49) it is doubtful
whether the commercial world would ever
have known methylated-spirits. Old
recipes still give the ingredients of
French-polish as shellac and spirits of
wine. It was the latter that put grey
streaks in employers’ hair. Any exact-
ing job had to be done before 11 o’clock
—before the craftsmen had time to swill
too much of the liquid. After lunch,
efficiency was decidedly on the decline —
with the chronic cases under the benches.
So chemists were set to work to produce
a “commercial spirit,” and metho was
born. But speaking of spirits of wine, in
the below-zero countries mercury in the
thermometers is replaced with that fluid,
the reason being that mercury freezes
solid, I recall the doctor in Ballantyne’s
The Young Fur-Traders and his delight
with the experiment when mercury
frozen in a bullet-mould was fired through
an inch plank.
“Bagot”: Alcoholic tastes? The
common belief of temperance workers
and others who have never been through
the fire is that it is the taste of the stuff
which draws men to the bottle. It’s the
effect that exerts the fatal fascination.
The spectacular failure of the many “spot
lager” saloons established throughout Aus-
tralia in the ’twenties proved it. They
tried to sell a cheaper brew possessing the
almost identical taste, but lacking the
vital kick of the real thing. O. Henry
summed it up when he described one of
his characters “raising the bottle to his
lips and gulping the contents with the
shudderings and gaspings of the hardened
drinker.”
* * * *
“Sam”: Whatever may be the case
nowadays, in the years just before the
war Russians were regarded with very
unfriendly eyes by the Tibetan authori-
ties (B. 17/8/’49). Ronald Kaulback
missed an opportunity to find the source
of the Salween through his companion
being mistaken for a Russian. This ex-
pedition, which Kaulback described in
his book Salween, took place about 1937.
The Englishmen, in deference to the
Tibetans, took no firearms. The locality
where they hoped to find the source was
infested for part of the year by a tribe of
nomad bandits, but they hoped to reach
this country when the bandits had
migrated northward. Unfortunately
Kaul back’s second-in-charge grew a
beard, and an official refused permission
to go further, alleging that the bearded
one was a Russian; Englishmen, he
asserted, did not wear beards. Word
had to be sent to Lhasa to clear up the
situation. By the time an order to let
them go had arrived it was too late. The
bandits were drifting back to their
southern grazing-grounds,
♦ ♦ * * It
“Kanim”: Besides his two sons in
Australia (B. 17/8/’49), Charles Dickens
had one in the Canadian Mounties, He
rose to the rank of inspector, and at the
time of the second Riel Rebellion (1885)
commanded at the outpost Fort Pitt.
This being too difficult to hold, he skil-
fully evacuated garrison and civilians
who had taken refuge there and escorted
them safely to Battleford.
* * * *
“Melbn”: What has happened to Mel-
bourne’s centenary tower which was to
have been erected with official sanction in
Sloss-street, South Melbourne? It was
to be so tall that it would dwarf the
Shrine of Remembrance, and its founda-
tions were to go 75ft. down into 800 tons
of solid concrete. It was to contain tea-
rooms, cabarets, dance-floors, roof-
gardens, giant telescopes and a 2\ million
candlepower light. At the top was to be
accommodation that would enable 800
people at a time to view the slums of
Fitzroy, and it was to have done for
Melbourne what the Eiffel Tower did for
Paris — i.e., although a monstrosity from
the aesthetic viewpoint, it would attract
more tourists than the Olympic Games.
The cost of the steel alone was to have
been £56,000. The depression or the war
or something must have outed the notion,
just as the housing shortage and go-slow
in reconstruction may yet oust the Games.
* * * *
“Sing 9”: A “Road Safety Exhibition”
has been drawing fairly crowded houses
in Sydney Town Hall for the past fort-
night, and, taking it all round, it’s a fair
show. Anybody who cared to walk
through and study not only the things that
can cause road accidents but the vast
efforts being made to reduce them
couldn’t help wondering why they are so
prevalent. I’ve discovered one reason. At
the exhibition I followed five young
women round. When I left they passed
me, evidently in a hurry to get back to
work. The traffic cop was signalling
cross-traffic on the intersection against
the five girls. Did they wait, as the. ex-
hibition had insisted they should? One
saw a gap between two trucks, grabbed
a companion’s arm and both dashed
through it, to find a car passing the
trucks on the far side. The car-driver
jammed on his brakes and skidded to a
stop. The girls glared at him and dashed
on. With an indescribable look of weary
patience the motorist resumed his way.
The psychology is common to thousands.
They don’t believe warnings and safety
rules are meant for them.
STEAK AND ONIONS.
Though sweet the perfume of the rose,
hragrant the violet,
Yet,
Most tempting to the nose
When, by the cafe light,
On dark and wintry night,
The lovely smell of steak and onions
Blows.
The scent of wallflowers at the feet,
A breath of mignonette . . .
Yet,
When cold and drear the street
And every gust that chills
Freezes your very gills,.
Then is the smell of steak and onions
Sweet.
The grace of odors long distilled
That one can ne’er forget . . .
Yet,
When coldest nights are filled
With whiffs of gravy brown,
From cafes in the town—
Ah, smell of smells, of steak and onions
Grilled.
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“N, E. Boddy”; Sitting on a log I saw
two jackasses cogitating silently on a
dry limb. After a while a third one flew
up and perched on the small end of the
limb, which snapped. As the newcomer
went hurtling down till he took wing the
other two birds burst out laughing at
full throat ; the victim flew back and
settled on another limb near them, but
wouldn’t join in the continuing laugh. I’d
never before seen one in a flock sit silent
while the others were indulging their
merriment. Apparently Johnny knew the
joke was on him.
* * * *
“Blime”; Charlie and Dick were riding
a little-used track. “Y’ know that yarn
about animals grow-
in’ like the people
they live with?” Dick
remarked thought-
fully. “Well, if y’ ask
me, I reckon it cuts
both ways. Take
Dingo Pete, now.
Cripes, Pete’s been
crawlin’ through
scrub so long, and
huntin’ in logs an’
things, he even smells
like a flamin’ dingo.”
“Yair, he does a bit,”
conceded Charlie.
“And look at cow-
cockies,” pursued
Dick. “Don’t they
grow sort o’ slow
an’ placid-like? Don’t
they just plod around
the bails, an’ take
things as they
come?” He paused
for Charlie’s nod,
and resumed, “And
what about that
cove in charge o’
the nags at the station
—ever seen hi m
saddlin’ the big black?
Them two watch
each other out o’ one
eye, and the first that
makes a wrong move
collects a kick in the
ribs. He’s quick,
that bloke, like a
half-broke colt." Charlie pondered the
question as the pair swung round a
bend of the trail to Starvation Flat
and sighted old Waller’s house. As they
neared, a swarm of youngsters broke for
the house, while three or four, playing
further off, made for cover in an opposite
direction. At the scuttle, a dishevelled
woman glanced up, spotted the strangers,
and hastily left her washtub to grab a
couple of crawling infants and disappear
behind a screening bush. Charlie heaved
a sigh. “Yair, 1 bet y’ must be right
about all that, Dick,” he agreed slowly.
“An’ I reckon it’s playin’ it a bit crook
bringin’ women t’ live in rabbit country.”
* * * *
“P.M.”: Broome (W.A.) has the
champion meat-tosser and meat-catchers.
The butcher’s Asiatic customers don’t
have their purchases wrapped up but
thrown at them. The butch, simply cuts
off a steak, weighs it and tosses it to the
customer, who catches it on the hook
he carries for the purpose. It never hits
the sawdust,
* ♦ * *
“W.R.0.”: Of the four sons in a
family that lived near us in the Mary
Valley, near Gympie, Queensland, years
ago, George had a steel hook in place
of a hand, Alf had a glass eye and Sam
a wooden leg. Charlie, the old man used
to say, was the only one “who was all
there.” As kids visiting the family we
used to be fascinated by George’s table
technique. Holding his food with the
hook in lieu of a fork, he’d cut up his
plateful. Then, Yank fashion, he’d dis-
card his knife and make play with the
fork. At bush picnics and dances, he
was a rare asset, being able to lift bub-
bling kerosene-tins of tea or hot water
from the blaze without injury. In this
department, however, Sam once stole the
show. Coffee having been made in the
übiquitous kero.-tin, the little group
around the fire was casting about for a
clean stick wherewith to stir it. Sam
whipped out his handkerchief, gave his
peg-leg a swift polish, and stirred the
coffee without so much as unbuckling
the thing from his stump.
* * * *
“Laetitia”: Next year will be the cen-
tenary year of the Queensland South
Burnett district. Nanango, the senior
township, derives its name from the his-
toric Nanango station, which had taken
the patronymic of the Binghi patri-
arch of the tribe, of whose “towri” the
squattage was part. It was largely
through King Nanango’s good offices that
the settlement survived in the early 1850’s.
During the time of W. E. Oliver, the
original holder of Nanango, it was cus-
tomary for the white staff at the station
to take an evening swim in the lagoon
adjacent to the homestead. On one occa-
sion old Nanango was mysteriously
adamant that the Oliver party must
abandon its plunge, Which was done in
deference to the old king. Later in-
vestigation showed that the muddy bot-
tom of the lagoon had been strategically
implanted with spears with the business-
end uppermost. King Nanango remained
a dignified feature of the landscape even
after his namesake settlement was well
advanced on the road to township, and
he gave several proofs that his sovereignty,
though seemingly symbolical only, was
yet a real force. The last recorded in-
“I'm afraid. Lord Tripewater, you'll have to ease
down a bit on the croquet !”
stance occurred when a flash Ipswich
native named Fred violated a taboo by
cajoling a local lubra named Flora into
an elopement. Ribaldly scoffing at Nan-
ango’s injunctions, Fred and his paramour
w r ere but a few miles along the journey
to Ipswich when, from the scrub, the
abductor was literally hamstrung by the
old king’s piston-like spear-thrust. When
Nanango squattage passed into the hands
of George Clapperton in 1862 the patri-
arch went with the property, on which
he remained to the end, serenely happy
in the certainty that no step in the ad-
ministration of the property would be
taken without his royal approval. As
well as being a gracious gesture to
“As you Were saying—she's a humdinger on
climbing !”
Nanango’s kingship, this seeking of the
royal blessing and advice paid dividends
in the holding’s initial stages.
♦ ♦ * *
“Stand To”: “Standby’s” eerie story
(B. 17/8/ ’49) took me back some years
to when I was making a trip in a rotten
old Yankee tramp from ’Frisco to
Panama, with nothing to do but watch
the marvellous sunsets, lounge about the
greasy decks and enjoy the balmy tropical
evenings. From Mexico to Panama the
sea just teems with fish of all types, from
flying-fish to whales. With three nights
to go to reach Panama I was standing
right in the ship’s bows, looking ahead
in idleness, when I observed a fearful
patch of light water about 500 yards
ahead in a direct line of our course.
Windy, I made for the man at the wheel
to see if he were asleep, but he was wide
awake and assured me that we had over
200 fathoms of blue-water under us. Not
being convinced, as the patch of light
grew nearer, I quickly tried to figure out
how far the land was off, then took a
firm grip of a solid rail to prevent being
shot over the side when she struck, but
to my great relief the old tub just glided
over the half-acre school of fish, which
from the deck looked just like a circus-
tent, submerged with all lights on. The
quartermaster informed me that we would
see many more in Panamanian waters,
and he was quite right.
* * * *
“Zake”; Morgan put a twist in the
piece of fencing-wire he held, got down
on his knees and inserted his arm as far
as it would go up the big hollow log.
“This is the one the rabbit went in, Joe,
I’ll swear,” he said to his mate. “I’ll
have him out soon. I’ll bet. Feels like
it’s caught in his fur now.” Muffled
sounds came from up the log. Morgan
drew his piece of wire in slowly. A few
seconds later a fierce-looking face, the
whiskers on which were twisted in the
wire, poked out from the log and a hoarse
voice rasped: “Can’t a blanky man have
a sleep without some brainless blankard
goin’ an’ pullin’ him out of his bunk?”
He screwed his dial up at the sun. “Can’t
be more than two o’clock, either.” Then
he backed in again out of sight.
• # * «
“Abdul”: Trailing a wounded euro by
bloodspots on a rocky hillside path
along the Ord River (N.Q.), I was cock-
ing a weather-eye downhill. Hearing a
faint sigh on the uphill side, I swung the
rifle up just in time to line the sights on
the head of a 9ft. taipan, on a level
with my face, poised for striking. Next
moment his beautiful light-brown body
was thrashing about my feet, with a
fringe of skin and splintered bone instead
of a head. My pure-lead .44 dum-dum
had spoilt any chance of examining his
bumps or dentures. For all that, I
snigged him well off the hill to a clear
space and kept a sharp lookout while
peeling him. Later, a Wyndham abo.
told me that was the only snake they were
afraid of. “S’pose you try hit with stick,
him no more there, him here,” said
Billyjoe. It is more common in N.Q. than
is generally believed.
* * *
“1.M.H.”: Although John RMley, of
S.A., constructed a machine known as
the stripper (B. 17/8/’49), it is doubtful
if it was really his in-
vention. John Wrathall
Bull a fellow-farmer
and early colonist-
claimed to be the first
to think out the prin-
ciple of a mower or
cutter that would work
in the field to separate
the heads from the
stalks. Bull put his
ideas and plans before
Thomas Hudson Beare,
who had a working
model made. This was
exhibited before the
Com Exchange Com-
mittee in September,
1843. A number of
models and plans were
exhibited, but, as re-
ported in the “Register.'’
Bull’s was the only one
that proposed to deal
with heads only. John
Ridley, who was present
at the meeting, approved
of the principle and
afterwards adopted it,
By the following harvest
Ridley had constructed
one machine which em-
braced Bull’s ideas for
“a horizontal projecting
comb and revolving
beaters driven by belts
from the carriage-
wheels." It was “pro-
pelled by a pair of
horses working behind
the machine, harnessed
to a long pole.” Ridley
saw that Bull was one
of the first to benefit
from the machine. Bull’s claim is
too heavily documented to be passed
over. Many years later, in 1882, Parlia-
ment passed a vote for the sum of £250
on his behalf as a reward for the im-
provements he had introduced in har-
vesting machinery.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: “The biggest enemy I’ve
got,” old Charlie confided in me, “is the
nailbox. Every cocky I work for has a
nailbox. I tell ’em what material to
order: timber, corrugated-iron, cement
and so on —hundreds of quids’-worth, and
there’s no argument about it. But as sure
as I say ‘Four pounds of nails’ —that’s
about two bob —they’ll rush straight in
with: ‘Aw, there’s no need to buy nails
—there’s a box full of ’em in the shed!’
And there is. They’ve been used and
pulled out and straightened and bent
again from the time when Billy Hughes
was a Boy Scout. I’ve got that way that
I know most of ’em personally through
trying to drive ’em and chuckin’ ’em back
in the box.” A chuckle crept into his
voice. “But only yesterday I thought out
the solution. Strategy,” said Charlie. “I
told the boss that old nails make the
best reinforcement you could put in a
concrete-hearth. So he’s happy to put
’em in; they won’t do any harm; and
when I get round to puttin’ the verandah
on I’ll have nails a man can drive.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: The wool-traveller was
seated in the bar when Seventyfiver
entered. “Y’ know, it’s a big trip, this
one,” began the traveller. “Time you
visit all the little places off the main
road. Takes months to get through.’
“Yair,” nodded Seventyfiver absently.
“Then, half of ’em aren’t home when you
call,” the traveller resumed. “And it
means hanging around, or else calling
back there again another day. There’s
a lot of work in this game,” “Yair,’
agreed the old bloke again. “Mind
when Bernie Bradshaw done this
run,” he recalled lazily. “Afore your
time, sonny.” “Well, I doubt if he did
as much as I do,” the other replied.
“None of the chaps in the office will pull
it on. You’ve got to be cut out for the
big trips, I say.” “Yair.” Seventyfiver
stared into his glass. “Four thousand
miles, Bernie reckoned.” “Four thou-
sand!” The stranger scribbled figures m
a notebook. “Yes, you’re right,” he de-
clared. “How long did it take that other
bloke? Six months?” “Just about.
“That’s what it will take me, too, de-
clared the traveller. “That’s if I dont
get held up again with engine-trouble.
Takes a good car for this trip, you know.
Y’ need plenty of protection against the
cold weather, for one thing, and you
got to have plenty of power for the nili-
climbing, don’t you think?” nllo ’
Seventyfiver drawled wearily. Dunna
Bernie always rode a nag! ”
THE TUCKERBOX.
It’s made of good red cedar from beyond the
big spur’s crest
Where the bullockies stopped swearing when
the bullocks gave it best;
The kiddies use it for a seat, it doesn’t seem
to mind,
Acquiring quite a polish from each little round
behind;
It’s holding now some rags and toys and
rubbish out of place,
A landing-net, some spinners, and a length of
nylon trace.
Oh, the dusty miles aren’t lonely when I’ve
little room to spare,
When I’m off with good companions and the
tuckerbox is there:
For it never travels humbly in the darkness
of the boot.
But sits on polished leather, like the Red Queen
with her loot,
Exacting tithe and tribute from each haughty
wayside pub,
In elegant containers, grand additions to the
grub.
Though it’s loafing now, it’s waiting, like its
owner, for the spring.
When the streams are flowing freely, when
we’ll both be on the wing
To where the big peaks crumble in the white
mists as they blow
And the matted silver daisies shake and tumble-
from the snow;
To where the doughty “rainbow,” in his jerkin
green and red.
Will take a white-winged “coachman” if you
drop it on his head.
Then the sweet, storm-haunted music of the
fiver rolling by,
The passing shower’s patter on an old, untidy
fly,
The lonely mopoke threading mellow notes
upon a string,
The swish of feathered bodies on a shadow-
hidden wing,
Oh, the tucker-box collects them in an unobtru-
sive way
And I take them home to cherish on a barren
winter’s day.
There’s a breeze from Bundabella and the scent
of eucalypts
From battlemented gorges, the Unseen’s
treasure-crypts—
I’ve packed them in the tuckerbox most care-
fully, beside
A sheoak-sheltered river and a bit of the
Divide,
And covered them with plovers’ notes I’ve
gathered on the plain
To share with some old comrade if we ever
meet again.
N.S.W.
S.H. HUME.


ILBEYS
I
SS
m
V
fiC*
<*r
©
©
©
s.
a
s? 2
98
S>
v>
a
o t oeeaUon
&6155 J
for
x
with
w
O
a
Tv
u
ky
a
\
1.183
FROM
CHEMISTS
EVERYWHERE
/ *
tram's
i*Zi
m Eft J J
r^v
| : CP° V (Y' 1
Cb&«
$ A lot*6 WSt
SHAVING
KEEP face temperature down, and
whisker inflation away. Join the million
and more shrewd shavers who enjoy
cool shaving security with Ingram's
concentrated shaving cream. Ingram's
users ensure the years ahead are free
from shaving worry. They know In-
gram's is a cool, refreshing shaving
cream that is kind to the only face
they'll ever own —and it's economi-
cal, too. Ingram's soothes as it
smooths as it softens, so get your
7 FREE shaves on Ingram's by send-
ing immediately the coupon below.
I*7SHAVES
Bristol Myers Co. Pty. Ltd.,
223 Pacific Highway, North Sydney, N.S.W.
NAME-
ADDRESS..
“Curate’s Egg”: Frail sisters in the
Torres Straits Island social scheme of
things pay, as usual, and despite mis-
sionary and Governmental attempts to
proscribe the practice, the errant Binghi
belle’s scalp is denuded of hair on one
side only. A redeeming feature of this
otherwise vicious punishment is that,
once the scalp is covered, the offence is
deemed expiated and any gossiping refer-
ence thereto is punishable with severe
penalties. Another curiously puritanical
trait in the make-up of Christianised
Binghi is the insistence that engaged
couples must either eschew each other’s
company or converse only in the presence
of others and at a minimum distance
of 6ft.
* * * *
“E.”: Splasher had a job painting
Simpson’s house, and on arrival the first
morning the old man helped him set up
his ladders on the side-wall of the build-
ing, then left him to it. Splasher got
to work. Fpr an hour there was little
movement round the place. A hen
cackled somewhere in the back regions,
and an ancient mong on the verandah
woke up now and then and growled half-
heartedly at the stranger. Splasher
worked on. Then, “Hullo,” came a thin,
cracked voice from nowhere. “Hullo,
Cockie,” the painter replied. He glanced
round at the trees, looked along the path,
but couldn’t see the bird about. Another
half-hour, and the voice came again.
“Nice day. I said, nice day,” it called.
“Sure; nice day, Cockie,” he replied
absently. He heard the voice round at
the back of the house several times as
the morning wore on, then once more it
came from close by. “Cup o’ tea. Cup o’
tea.” Splasher ignored the cackle. “Cup
o’ tea. Want a cup o’ tea?” it repeated.
“Too flamin’ right I do, ol’ bird,” he
remarked, climbing down for some more
paint. “I’m dry as hell, Cockie.” “Then
come round to the kitchen and get it,”
instructed the voice, as a female head
appeared in a near-by window. “And for
goodness’ sake stop calling me Cockie!”
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: But didn’t this discussion
on canine susceptibility to food poisoning
(B. 24/8/’49) start off on the wrong foot?
If bad meat will affect dogs as it does
humans, the various hounds that have
owned me, over the years, didn’t seem to
have been told about it. The current
mong is not at all impressed with a gift
of raw meat or bones, but throw him a
lump of left-over joint that is just about
ready to walk out of the safe and his
waggings begin an inch down from his
ears. He shares his predecessor’s love
for a nice, matured chook —one that has
lain in state in the bush for about a
month —and carries out the same grisly
ritual before the meal: a methodical
rolling in the mess in order to massage
the fragrance into his spine. But it
doesn’t make him sick —that’s my privi-
lege. As for dogs refusing to eat maggoty
fish washed up on a beach, fish seems
“HOW long off d’you reckon it'll be Worth ?”
to be an acquired taste with most
canines; many won’t eat it at all. But
few of ’em can resist a nice defunct piece
as a perfume for a spine-massage.
* * * •
“Mat’s Mate”: “I nilly fell for a girl
up near Cowra, in Noo South, one time,”
Mat said. “Her people had a farm out
Waugan way and she was the only kid
they had. About twenty, she was. Good-
lookin’, too, an’ mighty particular about
bein’ clean an’ neatly dressed all the
time, which some cockys’ daughters ain’t.
She was good in the house, too, an’ her
mother told me she made all her own
clothes. She was quiet. Used t’ read a
lot an’ had one o’ them soft, clear voices
a man likes t’ hear. Well, after I’m there
a few weeks I find meself gettin’ notions
about settlin’ down an’ all that an’ I
find meself wantin’ t’ be near her an’
listenin’ t’ her talk. She don’t seem t’
mind talkin’ t’ me, neither, an’ as far as
I could see her old man is a bit my way.
One night after work I takes meself out
on a bit o’ a hill an’ sits down an’ sees
visions. Yairs, I can see meself with a
good sort of a wife an’ workin’ this farm
on shares with the old man, livin’ in a
comfortable little house, with a few quid
in the bank an’ everythin’. No more
battlin’ round with blokes like you an’
bein’ half-starved an’ gettin’ boozed an’
sometimes cashed up an’ more often
broke. Strike me, it looked good,”
He fell silent. “What happened?”
I asked. “Aw, I snatched me time next
mornin’. Cripes, when a man starts t’
think like that, ain’t it time t’ snatch it?”
• * * *
“Rooster”: As to centipedes (B.
24/8/’49) I always thought that all species
were equipped with powerful poison jaws
formed by the front limbs, as distinct
from the mouth proper. The cbmmon
kind possesses 21 pairs of legs; another
only 15 pairs; yet another as many as
173 pairs. Knowing this, I certainly
wouldn’t care to risk handling “B. A.
Ker’s” specimen—“the harmless little
brown creature.” Millipedes, often con-
fused with wire-worms, possess up to
800 legs, and are quite harmless, though
when annoyed they may exude an
obnoxious fluid from glands on the back.
The “shieldbearer,” another related
species, seems all legs, solely by reason
of their length, there being only 15 pairs.
When caught by the legs it sheds them,
much like small lizards discard their tail-
ends. These are all harmless.
« * * *
“Bon-Yi”: Another imported pest that
may give trouble before it is eradicated
has found the forestry plantations at Yar-
raman (S.Q.) to its liking. Locally known
as the milk-vine, botanically as Araujia
albens, this native of Argentine, Southern
Brazil and Paraguay is a rapid-growing
twiner that on reaching the tops of the
young hoop-pines chokes off the centre
shoot of the tree by pulling it downwards
by the weight of its spongy, large pods.
The tough vines twist around the trunk
and branches and cut into the stem.
Damage to older trees is not so
pronounced. Bailey, in his Queensland
Flora, mentions the vine as long ago as
1900, but it remained almost unnoticed
till about 1939, when a vine was first dis-
covered in the pines. Since then, owing to
the labor shortages of the war years, the
pest has made great headway throughout
many of the plantations, despite the usual
methods of cutting, chipping and even
rotary-hoeing. Now the department is
trying out arsenic-pentoxide and hormone
sprays, and it is hoped that those may do
the trick. Reason for its spread can be
readily seen when a pod is opened. Sus-
pended from the topmost branches, as
many as a dozen or more pods hang from
each vine. Each contains between 700-
900 small pear-shaped seeds attached to
silken parachutes the same as thistledown.
Under infested trees the ground is white
with the down, and in the plantations, on
windy days, the seeds float past on all
sides. Germination is rapid and sure, and
the incidence of its spread is evident
everywhere. So far it has been found
only in the plantations; if it decides to
take to the surrounding farming areas the
cockies will number the new arrival with
the burrs, Chifley, stinkwort and other
headaches.
« * * •
“Bill Marana”: I put in a couple of
months with two pro. fishermen who
worked five set lines, five hundred hooks
to the line. Set four feet apart, they were
baited with porpoise, which hangs on
well, and the oil from which acts as
burley. The dolphins are harpooned;
thirty yards of double-twisted 36-cord
are used, plus a watertight kero.-tin. Big
dolphins can hold that tin under for
a while, but are eventually dragged back
as the float surfaces. When pulling in a
set line every hook has to be set in a
cork rack, making it easy to bait and
non-fouling for the next laying. If snap-
per are coming up, each hook is promptly
cut off the line with the catch as it comes
aboard.
* * * *
“Bo”: As an infrequent observer of
the snake family I have seen but few of
the tribe actually disappear into any but
well-prepared holes —mostly old rabbit-
burrows, logs, etc. Apparently the
colubrine gent, who teamed up so ably
with Eve has no capacity for excavation-
work himself, for I have never known
anyone who has ever seen him attempt to
dig. Probably it is that the laziness which
impels Joe to spend most of his waking
hours sunning himself on a rock also
urges him to make use of some hard-
working mug’s energy when he desires
asylum or the need for introspection in
complete safety. But if the reptilian
crockery is capable of use as a miniature
mad-mick I should like some sober per-
son’s testimony on the fact.
GALAHS.
,
Riding in on the wind they come,
A rose-lined cloud in the eastern sky,
Shouting and laughing at things they’ve seen
Where native roads go by.
Telling the gossip of far-off plains,
TteWtai
To tell all birds that pass
That the feast is set at the southern crops,
That fruit is ripe on a township hill,
And giving a message from friendly trees
Who are waiting for tenants still.
In a screech they tell that the emus come
Down the long, dry track with the kangaroo,
That the soaks have silted, and holes are dried,
And drought is stalking through.
Wheeling and diving, away they go,
Alive with the joy of the wings’ strong beat,
Out to the bush, and shouting like _
The newsboys on the street.
s.a.
IRENE GOUGH.


t
Your choice If CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your teste is for
sweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises* that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
BQ-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
eg TEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
!1!
-•in
111!)
II
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY BATES
Single Booms—
From 8/- per night
Double Booms—
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROPOLE,”-
Sydney.
Telephones;
8W2061 (9 lines)
The WILD CAT
COUMN
Elder, Smith & Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.
& £ £ £
1940.. 200,154 7 p.c. = 189,000 11,154 1,218,892
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,208,892
1941.. 190,276 6$ p.c.= 175,500 14,776 1,223,668
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. ..1,213,668
1942.. 186,653 6J p.c.= 175,500 11,153 1,224,821
1943.. 185,739 6J ~,,175,500 10,239 1,235,060
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,225,060
1944.. 185,594 6i p.c.= 175,500 10,094 1,235,154
1945.. 168,180 6 „ ~162,000 6,180 1,241,334
1946.. 163,438 6 „ ~ 162,000 1,438 1,242,772
1947.. 215,439 7} „ ~ 202,500 12,939 1,255,711
To provident fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 1,245,711
1948.. 244,973 8 p.c. = 221,928 23,045 1,268,756
To provident fund, £20,419 .. .. 1,248,337
1949.. 380,687 10 p.c. = 277,410 108,277 1,351,614
Other things being equal, the three main
factors affecting the level of net earnings
of these big woolbroking, pastoral-finance,
agency and merchandising houses are
seasons, prices and costs. Over the last
couple of years better-than-averag© rain-
fall helped to increase the weight of the clip
and the turn-off of fat lambs and cattle,
while prices for the staple rose to unpre-
cedented levels, figures for livestock re-
mained very high, and the demand for
station supplies, etc., expanded apace. So,
despite the steep rise in costs —a factor
which promises to become stubborn and
troublesome later on —Elder Smith has
been able to more than double its declared
profits over the last three years.
And last term the co. further strength-
ened and widened its agency and mer-
chandising activities in Westralia, where
it now does nearly as much business as
in its home State (South Aus,), by pur-
chase of the businesses of Wilson and
Co. (Port Hedland), Eaves and Co.
(Meekatharra) and Paterson and Co.
(Perth) at unstated figures.
For the year to June 30 last Australia
received a record wool cheque of
£194,589,170 (up £39,041,277), which was
over 4\ times greater than the one for
1938-39. Elders sold an extra 19,435
bales of wool, and put more sheep and
cattle under the hammer, too:
Wool, Bales. Sheep. Cattle. Pigs.
1947 .. 257,994 2,650,349 121,275 148,865
1948 .. 310,309 3,110,194 165,136 135,513
1949 .. 329,744 3,414,181 172,621 126,494
But it was the price of the wool, which
averaged £6l 16s, 6d. a bale as against
£5O 12s, lid. and £3O 14s. 9d, for the two
preceding seasons, that put most of the
pep into earnings, which also received
handsome contributions from the mer-
chandising, shipping, insurance and other
sections of the business.
The spring in gross earnings was
£433,174, after providing for contingencies
and writing £60,986 (up £15,643) off
premises and plant:
Exes. p.c.
Gross.* Exes.f Gross. Net.
1946 .. £901,651 £738,213 81.9 £163,438
1947 .. 1,196,349 980,910 82.0 125,439
1948 .. 1,434,851 1,189,879 82.9 244,973
1949 .. 1,868,025 1,487,338 79.6 380,687
* After providing for contingencies and depreciation
of premises and plant. + Includes provision for
taxation.
The net result was £135,714 stronger at
13.7 p.c. on capital as against 8.8, 7.9,
6, 6.2 and 6.8 p.c. back to 1944. A 2 p.c.
bonus was added to the 8 p.c. div., making
10 p.c. for the year, best since 1929.
Average distribution over the preceding
decade was 6.7 p.c.
Balance-sheet figures reflect continued
expansion of business and the effects of
season and prices:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £2,700,000 £2,774,100 £2,774,100
Deposits, etc. .. 595,892 667,322 690,244
Sundry cr’tors, etc. 2,381,418 4,220,343 4,465,919
Tax provision .. 187,037 390,422 321,519
Provident fund .. 170,827 * *
Freehold, plant, etc. 860,198 963,776 1,136,043
Gov. sec. and cash 2,641,122 4,220,343 4,337,144
Advances, etc. .. 3,351,479 3,352,352 3,280,375
Stocks .. .. 289,227 446,985 740,205
Shares other cos... 260,359 269,961 276,075
* Included with sundry creditors.
The growth of £293,220 in stocks sug-
gests tha! a lot of attention is, being given
to merchandising. The important feature
is the strong liquid resources, and hence
elbow-room to assist clients as soon as
the need arises.
An important development, which has
occurred since the close of accounts, is
purchase of the Victorian business and
assets of the Sydney-controlled Common-
wealth Wool and Produce Co. (price not
mentioned). This will give the co. a
much-needed wool store and more office
space in Melbourne and increase the
physical volume of its Victorian wool and
livestock turnover by about 50 p.c. Also,
each co. is to take up a “substantial”
wad of the other cos.’ shares (terms not
yet disclosed), and Elders is to be repre-
sented on the Commonwealth co.’s board.
This marriage of interests should be
mutually beneficial, giving Elders an in-
direct interest in wool and livestock in
N. S. Wales (where its activities have
hitherto been confined mainly to shipping
and merchandising arrangements) as well
as put a bit more stiffening into the Com-
monwealth co.—a fact which the market
has not been slow to recognise.
The current term has opened with good
seasonal prospects over most of the co.’s
area, and with a strong demand and high
prices for both wool and livestock. How
long wool prices will continue around
current levels is doubtful. Statistically,
the position of the staple is a
sound one; but present world trends
are toward disappearance of the post-
war seller’s market and a lower level of
prices generally, and some recession in
the price of raw wool is expected before
the current season runs out.
The market notes the co.’s strength,
financial and otherwise, and sums up the
risks by pricing the pound shares paid to
12s. each at 245. 2d., giving a return of
4.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. distribution, or a
shade under 4 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
Net tangible cover (book-value) is 17s.
lOd. per share.
Olympic Tyre <and Rubber Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 75,152 14J p.c, *= 59,305 16,847 144,000
1941.. 63,750 13J „ „ 66,734 142,996
1942.. 93,903 Hi „ „ 70,121 23,782 166,778
1943.. 90,284 Hi „ „ 74,948 15,336 182,114
1944.. 88,571 Hi „ „ 75,037 13,534 195,648
1945.. 92,578 Hi „ „ 75,0a7 17,541 213,189
1946.. 96,897 Hi „ „ 78.179 18,718 231,907
Surplus on sale assets, £21,965 .. 253,862
War-time stocks res., £37,772 .. 291,634
1947.. 171,536 14 p.c. = 84,390 87,384 379,018
To staff, £BOOO .. .. .. .. 371,018
Pref. 'Ord. Total.
p.c. p.c. £
1948.. 134,665* 5 14 81,159 58,506 424,524
1949.. 156,515 5 14 83,023 73,492 498,016
* After providing for possible fall in -sstock-values,
£175,000, 1948; £25,000, 1949.
Shareholders in this robust 15-year-old
have fared well. Divs. averaging 11.8
p.c, were paid for the 12 years to close
of accounts in 1946. Then the electric-
cable-making section was passed to a new
co., Olympic Cables, Ltd., and the capital
account was reconstructed. For each
original £1 ord. three f.-p. ss. ords. in the
Tyre Co. and one f.-p. ss. ord. in the
Cable Co. were received, and in 1948 and
1949 divs. aggregated 13i p.c. and 14 p.c.
respectively in respect of original hold-
ings. Meanwhile those on the register
were offered new £1 5 p.c. prefs. at par—-
198,857 in the Tyre Co. and 100,000 in
the Cable Co. —and new ss. ords. (64 for
100) at a premium of 100 p.c. in the
Cable Co. And they can see a capital
gain on the market, too.
Last term the lyre Co.’s output and
sales continued to expand, but profits
were “affected by the higher overall cost
of production.” Yet profit claimed was
£21,856 better at £156,515, which covered
the pref. div. and 28 p.c, on ord. capital
as against 24.2 p.c. in 1948. Actual trad-
ing results were nothing like so good as
the previous year’s. The £156,515 of
profit was written after allowing for de-
preciation (£65,447, down £18,644) and
taxation(£B9,ooo,down £l2l,ooo)and after
making further special provision (£25,000,
down £150,000) against possible losses on
stocks of raw and other materials. In-
cluding the special provision, some or all
of which might turn out to be genuine
profit, the year’s net figure was £181.151
(down £128,134). It covered the pref, div.
and 32.8 p.c. on ord. capital as against
57.7 p.c. in 1948, when exceptional cir-
cumstances prevailed. So repetition of the
14 p.c. div. caused the board no concern.
And, subject to what happens in con-
nection with costs (mainly wages), the
14 p.c. doesn’t look like becoming a diffi-
cult meter during the current term either.
Demand for the co.’s products is heavy,
and likely to remain so for some time,
the chairman says. The price of raw
rubber is low, the co. holds adequate
supplies of it and of other basic materials,
and the labor position is beginning to
ease. In these and other respects the co.
is well armed for entry into the more
competitive period which lies ahead,
when the secular trend of demand will
condition output, and efficiency in manu-
facture and selling will play a more im-
portant part in the level of profits than
they do today.
The year’s net addition of £127,286 to
plant and £15,245 to freeholds, etc.,
mainly reflects establishment of a new
tyre-building annexe at Altona, develop-
ment of the mixing mills at Banbury and
erection of a new store, now nearing com-
pletion, at Braybrook:
1939. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £392,500 £522,000 £720,857 £720,857
Overdraft .. 419,797 464,930 826,485
Creditors 7 f 254,763 172,855 215,176
Tax prov’nj a ), 175,704 210,000 90,332
Freeholds, etc. 78,119 127,49# 183,320 198,565
Plant, etc. .. 115,707 81,299 164,459 291,745
Stocks ~ 244,359 957,394 1,084,416 1,355,657
Debtors, etc... 245,448 543,184 578,565 504,052
Shares in Olym.
Cables .. 17,457 26,534 44,969
Stocks (up £271,241) are shown less the
special reserve of £200,000 (12.8 p.c.)
against fall in values. The more-or-less
liquid surplus was £772,685 (down
£69,039).
After making a special allowance of
£25,000 (up £15,000) in respect of stocks,
the Cable Co. netted £71,551 (up £27,580)
for the year to June 30 last. That covered
its own pref. div. and 26.9 p.c. on average
ord. capital. The div. was lifted from
13 p.c. to 14 p.c.
At 18s. the Tyre Co.’s ss. ords. return
3.9 p.c. on a 14 p.c. div. basis. The pound
prefs. at 245, yield 4.1 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £6 2s. 7d. prefs. and 9s. 9d. ords,
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividend. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 12,585 8 p.c. = 11,127 1,458 146,430
1941.. 12,332 8 „ „ 11,127 1,205 147,635
1942.. 12,007 8 „ „ 11,128 879 148,514
1943.. 22,423 8 „ „ 11,128 11,295 159,809
1944.. 25,593 8 „ „ 11,128 14,465 174,274
1945.. 38,140 8 „ „ 11,128 27,012 201,286
Taxation, £22,258 179,028
1946.. 39,806 16 p.c. = 22,254 17,552 196,580
1947.. 89,734 16 „ „ 22,255 17,479 214,059
1948.. 59,346 16 „ „ 22,255 37,091 251,150
1949.. 78,561 16 „ „ 22,255 56,296 307,446
It’s an ill wind that blows nobody good
While the shortage of dollars has impeded
the flow of American goods, including
motor-vehicles, into the Australian
market, it has also provided fresh oppor-
tunities for the makers of British cars
and the agents who distribute them. Be-
fore the war about a third of new car
registrations in Australia were of British
origin; the proportion was about 50 p.c.
in 1946-47 and 77 p.c. in 1948-49. The
rise in imports of British-made commercial
vehicles has been even more pronounced.
This and a hungry market explain most
of the extraordinary leap in net earn-
ings of this ably-handled and well-shod
undertaking, which holds the Morris and
Studebaker franchises for Queensland and
the Northern Rivers of New South Wales,
as well as refrigeration, radio and other
agencies, And there are nice pickings
from servicing and sales of parts.
Turnover, which approached the £2
million-mark, nearly doubled last term.
The leap in gross earnings (£425,678) was
£117,413. Including £50,000 (up £11,000)
set aside for the taxgatherer, exes.
(£347,127) gobbled £98,208 of the gain.
So the net result benefited by £19,205,
reaching £78,551, best in the co.’s history.
It was a juicy 56.6 p.c. on capital as
against 42.6, 28.5, 28.6, 27.4 and 18.4
p.c. back to 1944. The div. was kept at
16 p.c., and the £56,296 that remained
heaped reserves nearly times higher
than paid capital. So the two combined
need turn in only a shade under 5 p.c.
to cover 16 p.c. on capital alone.
As for the outlook in the trade, chair-
man Jimmy Howard says:—
Indications are that conditions are
rapidly reverting to normal, and although
a large number of unfilled orders are held
for most lines, it is anticipated that keen
competitive selling with a resultant increase
in costs will prevail by the end of the
forthcoming financial year.
By then the backlog of demand should be
overtaken. Still, owing to the acuteness
of the dollar problem, Australia promises
to remain Britain’s premier market for
cars and trucks. So, although selling and
other charges can be expected to bulk
more prominently in unit costs, the co. is
well equipped to earn satisfactory profits*
Finances are snug, and have been for
a long time:
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £139,093 £139,093 £139,093 £139,093
Creditors .. 58,967 73,093 147,402 116,826
Unearned
interest •. 9,824 10,086 10,148 11,594
Tax provision 89,500 52,817 54,484 67,647
Freehold .. 67,095 67,095 67,095 67,095
Plant, etc. .. 1,310 2,184 4,359 5,442
Stocks .. 83,989 204,772 318,736 299,467
Book debts, in-
vestments, etc. 276,279 180,626 238,405 235,122
Cash, etc. .. 37,545 56,277 937 56,785
The intriguing item there is the blanket
entry “book debts, investments, etc.” The
investments include an unspecified amount
of Government bonds and shares in
other cos. Some believe the co. could
return most, if not all, of its capital with-
out hamstringing the business in the
matter of working funds. The year’s im-
provement in the more-or-less liquid sur-
plus (£396,257) was £55,213.
Over the last 12 months, the f.-p. pound
shares, covered by 645. 3d. in net tan-
gibles, have had a fairly steady market
around 50s, The return at 50s. is 6.4 p.c.
on a 16 p.c. div. basis, or 5 p.c. should
the rate drop to 12i p.c.
Perpetual Trustee Co. (Sydney)
Net Dividends, Written To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 10 p.c. Off, Etc. serves, serves.
£, £,* £> £> £
1940 .. 29,125 20,000 4,000 5,125 279,226
1941 26,818 20,000 2,500 4,318 283,544
1942 .. 24,141 20,000 2,500 1,641 285,185
1943 .. 25,940 20,000 2,500 3,440 288,625
1944 .. 26,612 20,000 2,500 4,112 292,737
1945 .. 24,304 20,000 2,500 1,804 294,641
12| p.c.
1946 .. 29,192 25,000 2,500 1,692 296.233
1947 .. 27,895 25,000 1,250 1,645 297,878
1948 .. 27,354 25,000 2,354 300,232
1949 ~ 26,123 25,000 1,123 301,355
Scrip in these trustee cos. —Perpetual
is Australia’s largest—is essentially a
holding proposition, offering security with
long-term prospects. Though there isn’t
much profit in the trustee section of the
business these days, there isn’t much
risk either. If there is any doubt about
interpretation of a will there is always
the court to go to for direction; and the
cos. don’t risk much in the investment
of their own funds.
For over a decade now the tussle has
been one between rapidly-rising costs
(due to inflation, high taxation and the
greatly increased work connected with
administration of estates) and steadily-
growing returns from a constantly-
expanding volume of business at fixed
corpus and other commission charges, A
recent small increase in some of these
charges, which came too late to benefit
the latest accounts, will ease the squeeze
a little, but costs are still the troublesome
factor, and much depends upon how soon
they flatten out.
Over the last 13 years the Perpetual’s
costs have increased by £6 14s. p.c. of
income, which grew at the average rate
of £9485 for the four years to 1940, con-
tracted at the rate of £2979 p.a. for the
next four years, and has since gone up by
average annual steps of £17,013. The im-
provement last term was £13,929;
Year Exes.,
Ended Ex- p.c. of
June, Trusts. Income. penses. Income.
1936 ..£49,843,142 £150,994 £125,983 83.4
1939 .. 57,144,759 178,885 152,299 85.3
1943 .. 61,594,866 173,749 150,769 86.7
1944 .. 62,803,975 177,749 154,614 86.9
1945 .. 64,698,395 180,039 156,806 87.9
1946 ... 66,299,103 206,226 178,195 86.4
1947 .. 66,667,159 238,479 211,634 88.7
1948 ~ 67,748,618 248,888 222,624 89.5
1949 .. 68,326,006 262,817 236,887 90.1
But exes, (up £14,213) won the race by


MEMOW^theASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes,
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet .
Rev. W. Rowlands,
12 Younger' Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
BABCOCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
< ■>
TOP—Side view of Babcock-Detroit
KotoStoker with power dumping'
grate.
BOTTOM—Sectional view of Bab-
oock-Betroit KotoStoker.
-
For Medium and
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
The Babcock-Detroit Roto-
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of coke and
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability In plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies from
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, oil fuel, other mechanical types of
stokers, or any other known firing method, Babcocks
have the experience necessary to advise on the right
equipment most suitable and economical to your needs.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
BEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies In aH States
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
Situations Vacant.
Emperor Gold Mining Co., Ltd.,
Fiji,
Require
an Assistant Mill Superintendent.
Salary £BOO to £l2OO Fiji Currency
per annum, according to technical qualifi-
cations and experience in gold ore dress-
ing.
Cost of Living Allowance per annum,
£lOO.
Married Man, 80 to 40 years of age
preferred.
Excellent living conditions.
Applications accompanied by full par-
ticulars of qualifications, experience and
references to—
COOK, TOMLINS & MIRAMS,
360 Collins St., Melbourne.
Emperor Gold Mining Co., Ltd.,
Fiji.
Vacancies for Two Surveyors.'
Salary £450 to £650 per annum
Fijian Currency, according to ability and
experience.
Cost of Living Allowance £lOO per
annum.
Excellent living conditions.
Applications, accompanied. by copies of
references, to—
COOK, TOMLINS & MIRAMS,
360 Collins St., Melbourne.
Emperor Gold Mining Co., Ltd.,
Fiji.
Vacancies for Three Mill Shift
Bosses and Operators.
Salary £B/10/- to £9/10/- weekly
Fijian Currency, according to ability and
experience.
Cost of Living Allowance £lOO per
annum.
Excellent living conditions.
Applications, accompanied by copies of
references, to—
COOK, TOMLINS & MIRAMS,
360 Collins St., Melbourne.
Emperor Gold Mining Co., Ltd.,
Fiji.
Vacancies for Two Mine Shift
Bosses.
Salary £B/10/- to £9/10/- weekly
Fijian Currency, according to ability and
experience.
Cost of Living Allowance £lOO per
annum.
Excellent living conditions.
Applications, accompanied by copies of
references, to—
COOK, TOMLINS & MIRAMS, ,
360 Collins St., Melbourne.
Emperor Gold Mining Co., Ltd.,
Fiji.
Vacancy for Assistant Research
Chemist.
Salary £450 to £6OO per annum
Fijian Currency, according to ability
and experience.
Cost of Living Allowance £lOO per
annum.
Excellent living conditions.
Applications, accompanied by copies of
references, to—
COOK, TOMLINS & MIRAMS,
360 Collins St., Melbourne.
Scientists Fight
sugar cane pests
V/
m a
m
Much of the efficiency of the Australian cane sugar
industry is due to the progress made in fighting cane
pests and diseases by scientific measures. Although the
CSR Co. does not grow cane, except experimentally, it
maintains a staff of trained field investigators continually
doing research and practical work on these problems.
Si
ti
m
«...
A.
The results of the work done by CSR Co. scientists is
made available free to the farmers who grow the cane.
Co-operation like this by various branches of the industry
has made the Australian sugar industry one of the most
efficient in the world.
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
PLAN YOUR ESTATE
for your family’s
PROTECTION
In these days of changing values and high death
duties you will ensure better protection for your
dependents by:
1. Careful planning before your Will is drawn.
2. Providing for the careful management of
your Estate in the best interests of your
dependents, after your guiding hand is with-
drawn.
You are invited to
call and discuss your
Estate problems with
a senior officer of
Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
The Company has wide
experience in the manage-
ment of Estates of many
different kinds and sizes.
Because its service is per-
petual it may be depended
upon to provide alert,
efficient management in
the best interests of your
dependents, when required.
If unable to call, write
for a copy of the booklet,
“Your Executor and
T rustee”, that describes
the services offered by the
Company, and its charges.
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman) ;
E. E. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS:
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.B.
D. E. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HOBDEEN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT JTACCA WACCA, TAMFORTH and ORANGE
£284, due mainly to wage-lifts.
Including a net addition of £123
to corpus reserve (now £144,595,
which is the unearned portion
of corpus commissions), the net
result (down £1231) was 13 p.c.
on capital, compared with 13.6,
13.9, 14.5, 12.1. 13.3 and 12.9
р. back to 1943. The distribu-
tion was kept _at 12£ p.c., of
which 2i p.c. is labelled bonus,
for the fourth year in succes-
sion. For nine years before that
a steady 10 p.c. was paid.
At end June last the £200,000
of capital, together with reserves
and £65,124 coming to outsiders,
was represented by freehold, etc.,
£114,615, Government securities
£236,784, mortgages, etc.,
£110,596, book-debts £3036 and
cash and deposits £27,197.
Over the last eight months the
£lO shares paid to £2 each—the
other £8 is a reserve liability
callable only in the event of
liquidation —have fluctuated be-
tween 107 s. 6d. and 955. in the
market. At the current figure of
100 s. 6d. the return is 5 p.c. on
a 12i p.c. div. basis. Cover is
100 s. 3d. in net tangibles.
Larut Tin Fields, Ltd.
This one of the Anglo-
Oriental group has large dredg-
ing areas at Taiping (Malaya).
Two machines, No. 4 (200,000
с. -a - month) and No. 5
(250,000 c.y.-a-month), set in
again in Feb., 1947, and Sept.,
1947, respectively. Operating
results for the two years to end
1948 were as follows: —-
Recovered, Yield,
Year, Treated, t. 0., c.y.. Cost,*
Dec., ’OOO c.y. Tons. lb. c.y.
1947 .. 2302 397.17 0.37 6.92 d.
1948 .. 4255 841.43 0.44 6.86 d.
* Operating.
Last year No. 5 dredge closed
for two months for repairs, in-
cluding installation of a new re-
volving screen. Gross earnings
from sale of tin (£339,479) were
equal to £403.4 per ton t.o. re-
covered. All-in costs (£247,180)
were equal to £293.7 per ton
t.o. they included royalty
(£50,263), realisation (£9335), de-
preciation (£26,000), taxation
(£25,000) and emergency expen-
diture on defence (£1123). With
£l6l of sundry revenue the profit
was £92,460, or 30.8 p.c. on the
£300,000 of capital. Two divs.
totalling Is. a share were paid,
less income tax, which reduced
the net rate to 16 p.c.
There is about 76,000,000 c.y.
of pay-dirt ahead of the dredges,
and the co. has a one-third in-
terest in 55,000,000 c.y., averag-
ing 0.571 b. t. 0., at Bangtoe, West
Siam. Finances are comfortable
—current assets £105,660 and
current liabilities £61,356. There
is a rehabilitation loan of
£113,904, which will be set
against the co.’s war-damage
claims.
With world production of tin
no\y running ahead of consumpl-
- there are doubts as to what
the future holds for the industry.
Much depends upon U.S.
strategic stockpiling, upon what
happens in Bolivia and upon
what scheme Malayan and other
producers decide upon to meet
the position. The f.-p. ss. shares
are fairly steady around the 10s.-
mark on Sydney ’Change.
Gold Exploration and Finance
of Australia, which transferred
headquarters from London to
Melbourne at the beginning of
1949, intends to consolidate all
its investments under the
ownership of Western Mining
Corp., and then to distribute its
holding in W.M.C. to those on
its own register. The scheme,
will come up for approval at the
annual meeting in November
next. Paid capital is £913,016
in 10s. stock units. At Septem-
ber 20, 1948, investments in-
cluded approximately 97 p.c. of
the issued capital in Western
Mining Corp., 30 p.c. Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie, 26 p.c.
Triton (in liq.), 62 p.c. Gold
Mines of Australia, 44 p.c. Vic-
toria Gold Dredging and 51 p.c.
Central Victoria Dredging. Last
div. was 1\ p.c. (subject to U.K.
income tax of 9s. in £) paid
October, 1948. Price of the
scrip has advanced from
10s. 9d. to 13s. in the Australian
market over the last couple of
months.
* * * *
Barrytown Gold Dredging,
which proved a disappointment
to shareholders, has sold its
2,500,000-c.y.-p.a. bucket dredge
to Australian interests, which
will presently form a co.
to work a tin area in N.Q. The
price was £A85,000. In N.Z.
currency the co. held Govern-
ment securities, cash, etc., total-
ling £69,759 at end March,
1948. There was then £453
coming to outsiders, leaving
£69,306 net. On the basis of
these figures the amount avail-
able in Australian currency will
be £170,339, or about 245. 9d.
per pound share. Paid capital
is £128,750 in 125,000 £1 shares
and 75,000 Is. deferreds. All
shares rank equally, on a share-
for-share basis, in the distribu-
tion of surplus assets. The
property, dredge, etc., plus cost
of dismantling, stood in the books
at £203,809. Formed in 1934 to
work auriferous sands near
Greymouth (N.Z.), co, paid one
6d. div. The gold appears to
have been there, but in so fine a
state that satisfactory recoveries
could not be achieved. In Syd-
ney the pound shares were re-
cently offered at 21s.


Men Who Know Wine
Know
riM( O
Zr 6^
&
SrfKSS
■m-
mgsm
mm.
m
mm
ms
7M
tfs&sss
CAPSTAN
7L a <zz7a Vijiizc(L ds L^atette
*7540-8.49
Business, Rollery, Etc.
FEDERAL BUDGET.
As Mr. Chifley knows, a
Budget usually gets away with a
quick and easy verdict —“No
Surprises”—if it contrives to
look like its irpmediate fore-
runners ; and there’s no ques-
tion that the papers tabled
last week in Canberra cover
pretty familiar ground. An-
other massive hidden surplus
in the figures for the year that
has just ended, accompanied by
the usual pretension that this
year is expected to end with a
deficit; another fascinating ap-
pearance of “certain inner re-
serves” ex machina without a
hint as to how much still has to
come; another set of estimates
in which expenditure is ob-
viously tailored up so as to fit
revenue rather than the other
way round —these have all be-
co m e well-known budgeting
trademarks. To the connoisseur
they denote a genuine Chifley
of the late period.
But it is the very sameness, of
this Budget that must be appreci-
ated in its effrontery. The new
estimates would take us to a
point five years after the war’s
end (the phrase “post-war” is
quietly being dropped as an ex-
planation for many items of ex-
penditure that still go marching
on); and yet on the eve of a
Federal election the Canberra
Government is arranging to
appropriate over a quarter of the
national income. We are, in
fact, settling into the normal
financial structure of a Socialised
State.
* * * *
Any acceptance of the new
estimates as serious pointers to
economic trends in 1949-50, or
to the likely impact of govern-
ment upon commercial life, has
to be heavily qualified by
memories of . the discrepancies
that stand revealed between esti-
mates and results in recent years.
For instance, when Mr. Chifley
placed his estimates before Par-
liament last year he budgeted
ostensibly for a revenue of £509
million in 1948-49. That revenue
was to fall short of expenditure
by £17.7 millions, and the gap
would be covered by loans.
Now the actual result, as he ex-
presses it, is that revenue sur-
passed the estimates by £42 mil-
lion and there was also excess
expenditure of £25 million, so
that the Budget just balanced
without any resort to loans.
That result can’t be accepted
at face-value because of Mr.
Chifley’s queer usage of the term
“expenditure.” It includes an
addition of £25 million t© the
reserves of the National Welfare
Fund, that fountain from which
all our social-security blessings
are to flow. Like another addi-
tion of £5.8 million to the War
Gratuity Account, this was
merely a transfer of surplus
funds into reserve; by no stretch
of logic can either item be re-
garded as expenditure.
Other expenses calling for
special treatment are those of a
capital nature. On public
works an amount of £37.5 mil-
lion was spent. In addition,
there was a £lO million gift to
the United Kingdom and £2.8
million to international relief. If
all these are separated from last
year’s current expenditure Mr.
Chifley’s surplus, by normal ac-
countancy standards, exceeded
£BO million, which is as much
as the total size of an Australian
Federal Budget before the war.
Assuming that the public-
works outlay was more or less
spent within Australia (no de-
tails on the point are available),
and treating it in that respect on
the same basis as current ex-
penditure, the net effect of last
year’s Commonwealth Budget
would have been to withdraw
about £43 million from the Aus-
tralian public without returning
it to circulation. In that single
aspect the Budget had defla-
tionary consequences. Despite
Mr. Chifley’s reluctance to con-
fess this surplus, it is not in it-
self objectionable at a time of
excess money like the present.
Many other countries —including
the United States until recently,
Britain and even Russia —have
openly budgeted for surpluses
since the war in order to
strengthen their currencies and
repay public debt.
But unfortunately our surplus
is achieving neither of these ob-
jects. Any delicate influence
that the surplus might have con-
tributed towards deflation has
been swamped by the grossly in-
flationary character of the
Budget as a whole. A Govern-
ment that taxes away 25 p.c. of
all incomes (and much more of
the incomes of the successful
and energetic) to employ regi-
ments of non-productive ser-
vants in a period of manpower
shortage and depleted output,
cannot refute the charge of
being grievously inflationary by
pointing to a relatively insignifi-
cant Budget surplus.
$ * * *
Under any political party, the
Canberra Government would
need, admittedly, a great deal
more money now than before the
war (when it used to take not a
quarter but one-tenth of the
national income).
A giant newcomer is the item
Second-war Charges, estimated
this term to cost £110.5 million.
It includes the interest and sink-
ing-fund payments on war loans
(£49 million); pensions, repatri-
ation and provision for war
gratuities (totalling £25 million);
ex-servicemen’s land-settlement
and training schemes (£l2 mil-
lion). More dubiously, the item
is stretched to include price sub-
sidies (£l6 million, mostly for
tea and butter) and the £lO mil-
lion gift to Britain.
Understandable also is the
additional £B5 million provided
to reimburse the States for hav-
ing vacated the field of income
tax during the war. And the
principle that an extra £52 mil-
lion should be spent on defence
is acceptable enough—whatever
may be thought of the value that
is being obtained for the money
by this Government.
Higher wages and costs in the
administrative branches were to
some extent inevitable, whilst
social-services expenses have
automatically increased with
Canberra’s assumption of lia-
bilities that were formerly the
States’.
But this National Welfare
Fund for social services stands
to absorb £l2l million in 1949-50
—about £l6 per head of popu-
lation. Nothing like value for
money is coming back to tax-
payers. Likewise the Depart-
ment of Civil Aviation gets about
£lO million of pocket-money
each year for a comparatively
negligible contribution to the
national well-being. These are
two outstanding examples of the
flabbiness, inaccurate estimates,
careless and disproportionate
spending that prevail in greater
or less degree throughout the
Canberra estimates, A business-
like administration would not
have to sacrifice a jot of its
genuine and effective service in
cutting 20 per cent, off Mr.
Chifley’s present rate of expen-
diture.
* * * *
Any reigning party in Can-
berra may be exposed henceforth
to an unholy temptation to over-
spend. That is because of the
lopsided evolution that has de-
veloped in our Federal system of
finance. The central Govern-
fnent enjoys practically a sole
prerogative to harvest the
nation’s richest fields of revenue,
yet it remains exempt from the
onerous responsibility of pro-
viding the bread - and - butter
utility services. Hence the ten-
dency to devote its funds to
“pure” administration and the
elegancies of paper-planning,
whilst the States must play the
role of humble suppliants to
carry on the basic and practical
works of government
But in title last three years the
temptation was doubly great for
a Government with Socialist
leanings. Here was a nation
disciplined by war to accept
heavy official controls and steep
taxation. To relax these condi-
tions with the intention of re-
imposing them later was plainly
not practical politics. It was,
however, quite feasible to main-
tain the taxes and controls at
something like war-time levels.
Such a policy may bring in
more funds than the Exchequer
can spend as yet—but eventually
all the money (and more) will
be required if the Government
payroll includes doctors, dentists,
bankers, insurance officers and
what-have-you. And meanwhile
it is essential that the public
should not be given a taste of
its pre-war freedom.
* * * *
One of the most interesting
(and least controversial) features
of the new Budget is the pro-
posal to spend an extra £9
million on Immigration, The
vote of £15.3 million for that
department ranks a close second
to Works and Housing. It
includes £2 million to convert
and fit ships for migrants; £5.6
million for the free- and assisted-
passages scheme (compared with
only £2.2 million last year); and
no less than £6.2 million for the
construction of training centres
and workers’ hostels (£1.6
million last year). This is a
bold programme, that may over-
tax even the energies of Mr.
Cal well.
Works and Housing, which
gets a 60 p.c. bigger vote than
last term, has failed consistently
in recent years to spend all the
money that Mr. Chifley chews
off for it. The vote of £16.7
million includes £l2 million for
war-service homes (as against
last year’s actual £8.3 million).
The vote for Civil Aviation
includes as much as £5,3 mil-
lion for current expenditure
and £42 million on capital
ltem !' Shipping and Fuel has
provided £2.8 million for de-
velopment of coal resources.
Other departmental votes are
mainly administrative.
As for revenue, Mr. Chifley
says he expects £l3 million less
from personal income-tax thi<a
time, but £9 million more from
social-services contribution and
£8 million more from company
income-tax. Other changes arc
only slight, and altogether the
Budget figures revenue at £lO
million less than in 1948-49.
Any comment must be con-
jectural, because the Treasury
alone knows how much arrears
of income-tax is still to be
assessed and collected. Last
year, as noted, revenue was
underestimated by £42 million;
the year before that it was
underestimated to the staggering
extent of £6O million. Mr.
Chifley’s estimates have a per-
manent list in the direction of
conservatism, and it is natural
to feel strong doubts about the
gap of £35 million between
revenue and expenses which he
says will have to be filled by
loans.
Even if the estimates prove
correct, that would not really
mean a deficit of £35 million,
because Mr. Chifley’s “expendi-
ture” for 1949-50 includes
straightout additions 'of £2l
million to the Welfare Fund re-
serve and £6i million to the Re-
habilitation and Gratuities re-
serves. Moreover, it allows £lO
million for another gift to
Britain, besides a sum of £5l
million for capital works. On
Mr. Chifley’s highly conserva-
tive figures, therefore, the year
would result in a surplus of
current revenue over current ex-
penditure of £B7 million
(similar to last year’s). If all
the capital expenditure were
domestic in character, the net
result of the Budget would be
to withdraw about £37 million
from circulation within Aus-
tralia.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and libera! settlements of claims.
Director*: THOMAS A, MAGNET, Chairman; F, W. Duesbury, Deputy
, Chairman ; Alfred S. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone: B.W. 8361. 139 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States.
Tie
Union Bank
of Australia Limited
{lncorporated in England)
li ai
cheque account with the idanh
convenient to the private individual ai it if
eiienliaito the huiineii houie.
~d}ny branch wi iigUiy adviie you.
of
&
&
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia & New Zealand
Soaa*, wtth
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASE
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. That'* why a Globite
costs loss In the long run.
Mode by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Assets Exceed
£2,750,000
The A.C.A.
for Security
THE A.CaAa
A.C.A. POLICIES
ARE
GOOD POLICIES
AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.) •
A.C.A. Building. 66 King Street, Sydney
Call, Write or Ring. Telephone BX 2165
BRANCH OFFICES
IN ALL STATES
D. J. MOONEY
(
Managing Director
MAORILAND FINANCE AND INDUSTRY.
Company Profits Falling
Tax demands are dwarfing net
earnings of N.Z. cos. as profits
slump under the triple squeeze
of tighter price margins, still
rising costs and shrinking turn-
overs, with tax levies based on
results in the year gone by. Last
year 60 p.c. of £5O million gross
co, income went into the
Treasury to help meet outsize
State spending, and the percent-
age might hit a high mark again
this year (ending March, ’5O) if
cos. can’t arrest the flagging
profit trend. The biggest gainer,
who holds no shares, takes no
risks, and doesn’t care two hoots
whether business is able to build
up reserves, might find soon that
pound-of-flesh tactics will “kill
the goose,” and that business is
“Have you decided what you are going to do with your
lottery win?”
bled white by State extravagance,
Here’s how the figures have gone
over a decade:
Gross Income
To Coy. Direct After
Mar. 31. Income. Taxes. Tax.
(Figures in millions of pounds.)
1939 .. 19 9 7 1 12 8
1945 38.2 26.6 n. 6
1947 .. 48.3 24.0 24.3
1010 *■ Ini ™’a iH
1949 .. 50.0 30.4 19.6
Cos. were stung for nearly
double as much m every £lOO
earned last year as pre-war,
under socialistic profit-slimming.
Business organisations, com-
merce chamber presidents and
have been crying halt”
until they re hoarse, but still the
Government s spending spiee
goes on. .
In time, this short-sighted
policy must play the devil with
sources of taxation. Business
managements that ignore warn-
ng signs when the writing is on
the wall do so at their peril, but
e present political leaders who
aven t had to contend with hard
tiraes think mistakenly that Gov-
ernments aren’t subject to the
same law. The price to be paid
•„ p . ubl ' c extravagance m N.Z.
m A 6a w e n bemg f o ?*-"
C °‘ C lair j
Barnett, summed
U F as * mont h when he
ml that . T w ° uld ,S° , still
to her when M.L. launched out
r>?,icl enCe | e , xp ' an f slo . n under com-
p Isory military training in 1950,
owing recent increases in
dal - security pensions. He
warned businessmen that post-
ar hopes of tax reductions must
n w be written off.”
n- m3no j r- I
g Crockery
When Maoriland’s “new-iook”
pound cut the ground from
under its budding export trade in
crockery to Australia a year ago,
Ike Bulletin figured out that
Consolidated Brick and Pipe In-
vestments, Ltd., which took the
full knocK, lost 50 p.c. of its
market. This estimate was con-
firmed by chairman Tom Clark,
ot Auckland, at the co.’s annual
meeting. Clark said; “It was a
serious blow, for Australian
business was averaging in the
vicinity of 50 p.c. of our crockery
output. Stocks held in Australia
had to be heavily written down.”
When the blow fell the co. was
just beginning to feel firm ground
in its fine-earthenware venture,
which was a new M.L. industry.
Since then production has been
made more diversified. In dura-
bility M.L. crockery is now
claimed to be superior to most
that N.Z. buys from John Bull,
and comparable with his best.
It’s on the artistic side that J.B.
has the big lead.
With no tariff or exchange-
rate to shelter it, this young M.L.
enterprise has to stand up to im-
port competition on even terms,
and the co. reckons this is asking
too much. It says all other
British countries have tariffs on
crockery, whilst J. 8., to aid his
potteries, bans imports.
Where to Invest?
Lending institutions in N.Z.
have been crowding the gilt-
edged market for a year or more
as paper prosperity on one side
and building controls on the
other have narrowed down the
mortgage field and banked up
millions of funds that are clut-
tering the money channels.
Thrifty mortgagors have been
making the most of the chance
to wipe out liabilities while the
going is good—and this is some-
thing worth-while to chalk up on
the credit side —but the pressure
of surplus cash kicks back
through high costs and prices.
And this in spite of the. 20 p.c.
exchange adjustment a shade
over a year ago which made
M.L.’s pound heavily over-
valued for overseas transactions,
but was designed to check infla-
tion at home.
The sharemarket isn’t a great
help because big lenders can’t
take risks with their deposits and
trust funds; in any case, all in-
vestors are chary now, when
downward profit trends are the
orange light on the share front.
Mid-year balance-sheets haven’t
stimulated interest, and all signs
point to a quiet time ahead as
November election prospects
loom up as a major factor in
calculations. Holders of shares
aren’t likely to sacrifice at this
stage, as they hope for a swing
in a group of marginal seats
which would be enough to give
the knockout blow to Socialism
in Maoriland; and buyers won’t
lift offers while the issue is in
doubt. It’s an unreal atmosphere
which results in stalemate at
many points, and until a change
comes the odds are pressure of
money will go on rising.
Insurance and life-assurance
concerns in M.L., as in Australia,
have been prospecting in the
share field, but the funds of
policyholders diverted into this
channel are put at less than 3 p.c.
of total assets, with the tendency
lately downward. Yields don’t
average much more than 4 p.c.
on shares that are safe buying,
and when big finance houses or
trustee cos. have paid social
security and income taxes at
maximum rates all they have left
is a paltry lj p.c. On gilt-edged
3 p.cs. they net a bare £1 ss. 6d.
So it’s a thin living for them
these days.
Bank deposits, inflated to an
M.L. peak of £192,750,000, only
make the set-up more lopsided,
for they outbalance advances by
£2 10s to £l, and credit spinning
hasn’t come to an end yet. With
the political going now the
hardest Fraser-Nash and co.
have ever known, it’s a cert, that
the printing press will be work-
ing overtime, and the door won’t
be slammed in the faces of appli-
cants for loans. Besides, the
Government is counting on a
record haul of £132,750,000 in
taxes in the current term (end-
ing March), and it wants to
borrow £35,250,000 for State
works. For Maorilanders it’s the
most watery-looking, flood-like
monetary perspective they’ve
ever gazed on.
Seven pounds a minute is
being lost by N.Z. State railways
as earnings lag behind mounting
costs. It is three years since
revenue last covered .outgoings.
Taxpayers had to put up a
million to balance the books in
the latest term (ended March),
and since then losses have
soared to half a million in four
months. For 20 years before
’46 the railways managed to clear
expenses, but contributed only a
mite towards interest on invested
capital, which runs into three
million yearly. Labor and fuel
costs have been a double hurdle
in post-war years, with much
coal bought from overseas
(partly from Uncle Sam for
scarce dollars) while output from
M.L. coalmines has dropped far
short of total needs. Between
interest and operating deficits the
railways are costing Maori-
landers at least £2 10s. a head
yearly (apart from fares) to
keep them on the level.


WHERE zJea/atWA MOVE —MERCHANDISE MOVES
i
I'-..--
i;;:
' -v
mmh.
mmmm
.
-< h ~t *:sd.
ost *■ e b
®* ,s otro" 0
.
AX WlT®»
OTIS
CdcalatcM
★
PUT MOTION INTO SALES PROMOTION
This Otis escalator installation at Myer Emporium
Ltd., Melbourne, invites customers to visit depart-
ments on upper floors—to see more and to buy more.
Properly planned escalators induce shoppers to visit
all departments . . . promote a high density ratio of
customers to merchandising area . . . make for more
store traffic, more sales—and more profits.
Your local Otis office will be glad to give you the facts
and survey conditions in your store.
5
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE * ADELAIDE
BRISBANE . PERTH • HOBART . NEWCASTLE
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
marks the spot
m
m.
W
m
r wm
m
m
■Of.
m
jMhhi
#
■>;.■
-
«8
H
s*
1
#
m
y
Am
7
/,
M
w
. £
v'r<
faw
tat
Z&l-j
d *i£lt
A speeding motor-cyclist ... a careless pedestrian running out from behind
parked cars . . . and they met by accident, at the spot marked X. In two
minutes a crowd gathered. In four minutes the pedestrian was dead. They took
the cyclist to hospital, badly injured.
When travelling on the roads . . . whether you are dnvmg, riding or walking
... be prepared for anything. Take safety precautions against the other fellow’s
mistakes. Observe all the traffic rules yourself, and help to make the roads
safer for everyone.
DEATH IS SO PERM AMENT.. jT}
5.0*0
If ISSUED BY THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
NATIONALISTIC GERMANY.
Back in the U.S. from revisit-
ing Germany, whence he fled as
a political refugee from Nazism,
leading German author Thomas
Mann had a few things to say
about nationalistic trends rising
in his native country which had
some confirmation in the more
recent elections there.
Dr. Mann declared: “I did
not speak to one honest German
who was not deeply concerned
about increasing nationalism in
his country. Let us concede that
military reaction in a defeated
country always creates a certain
amount of nationalism. But
what we experience in Germany
seems to go beyond the normal
reaction. The Germans do not
realise the cause of their actual
condition. The great majority
of the people complain: ‘Under
Hitler we were much better
off.’ ”
Since the elections last month
most British and American com-
ment has tended to play down
the “strident nationalism” which
all agree was the leitmotif of the
campaign. Just how strident it
— St. Louis (U.S.A.) “Post-Dispatch”
THE TAIL THAT WOULD WAG THE DOG.
was can be gathered from a
mere brief extract or two from
a couple of speeches, not made
by the sort of fanatics described
by the British occupation head
the other day as “underground
Nazi general staff,” but by the
two most responsible leaders:
Social Democrat leader Dr,
Schumacher: “The German
people are tired of listening to
words of friendship and recon-
ciliation and getting enmity in
practice. Never have the rela-
tions between the Allies and the
Germans been worse than they
are today! I have to be nation-
alistic because I have to defend
the last bit of German soil.”
Christian Democrat leader Dr.
Adenauer: “A nation like Ger-
many, with one of the first seats
in mankind’s history, has a claim
to feel along nationalistic lines.
The foreigners have got to under-
stand that the period of collapse
and unrestricted domination by
the Allies is finished.”
Straining to make the best of
that sort of thing, responsible
comment in America and Britain
has ever since been glossing it
aver as mere local politics. These
efforts have been rather nullified
by deeds speaking at least as
loud as the leaders’ words—
some savage outbursts of anti-
Semitism ; outbreaks even more
violent directed against the dis-
mantling of plants that is still
going on; and, as well, the con-
firmation coming through of
what has been stated often
enough regarding the Russian
training of a dangerous-sized
German army in the guise of a
police force, with last-war Ger-
man officers very willingly act-
ing as its leaders.
These things help maintain
the large measure of doubt with
which authorities of the West
are said to view the prospects of
the Germans in their welded
zones fashioning a democracy
after any truly Western pattern.
There is not yet pessimism about
this (despite the loud nationalism
of the elections), but there is cer-
tainly no great optimism. N. Y.
“Times” has thus summarised
the general feeling of the
Western occupiers:
“Sooner or later we have to
let the Germans run most of their
own affairs and take their place
in the European community.
Nevertheless, we must be
watchful lest Germany become
an aggressor again. The greatest
antagonist of the West is still
Soviet Russia—but Germany is
also a potential danger.”
The elected Parliament, which
had its first meeting the other
day, represents a poten-
tially powerful Germany even
without those areas that the
Poles and others, in their sup-
posed wisdom, have taken oyer,
and the zone the Russians
occupy. The West German Re-
public shaping up has a popula-
tion of about 46,000,000 (includ-
ing an estimated 11,000,000
refugees from the eastern areas);
its territory touches eight other
European countries; it has large
seaports on the North and Baltic
Seas; it once provided 86 per
cent, of all Germany’s steel, 80
per cent, of its coal, 61 per cent
of its industrial products and 45
per cent, of its food. It has al-
ready made an extraordinary in-
dustrial recovery since the
Western Powers got fed-up with
trying to get along with the Bear
(production is now about equal
to that of 1936).
What has now to be seen is
bow those elected will proceed
to work under the considerable
limitations still imposed; the
Western occupiers (as N, Y.
“Times” summarises) reserving
for themselves power in such
fields as these: Disarmament
and demilitarisation, reparations,
civil aviation, control over
foreign affairs and foreign trade.
Moreover, there are other safe-
guards : The occupation authori-
ties “reserve the right to resume,
in whole or in part, the exercise
of full authority if they consider
that to do so is essential to
security.” As to the Ruhr—
which was the war arsenal ot the
Kaiser and of Hitler —an inter-
national authority for the Ruhr
has been established to exercise
overall control and determine
distribution of the region’s coal,
coke and steel production. # .
Once the new State is ifl


Simple richness and
efficiency these, are
the qualities that
characterise FYNE-
POYNT propelling and
repelling pencils. In
rolled gold or sterling
silver, a FYNE-POYNT
executive’s pencil is a
writing instrument for
lifetime satisfaction.
Make it individually
yours by engraving
your name on the
smooth panel provided.
FYNE-POYNT pencils
are stocked by
stationers, jewellers and
stores, price 57/6.
<s^W/
PENCILS
•lABIE TODD ft CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
253 A GBORGB STREET, SYDNEY
H/.IM
3■
(Ohmd&
EIGHTH SECU
UAH INVESTORS
me
p^gpßi
p3p3 j 3
-c?;
0 You don’t need to be a million-
aire to enjoy the advantages of such
a safe and profitable investment as r?
Eighth Security Loan Bonds! If
you could peep into homes of every
type, mansions, flats, cottages —city,
suburbs and country —ypu’d find
investors in the Eighth Security Loan
. . . people in high and low income groups alike
who have proved that Bonds are the best place
for their savings.
Bonds are easy to buy, pay regular interest every
six months, and are readily negotiable for cash
in emergency. Repayment in full at maturity is
guaranteed by the Commonwealth—there’s no
safer investment in Australia.
You can invest in the Eighth Security Loan for
as little as £10 —just by calling on any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office or Stock-
broker and signing your name on an application
form. And there’s no limit to the amount you
can invest —any sum from £lO upwards will give
you a share in this best of all investments.
Save for Security • • «
eighth
SECURITY LOAN
BSU4.III.SS
ADVANTAGES
OF INVESTMENT IN
THE EIGHTH
SECURITY LOAN
Investment in the Eighth
Security Loan is easy, safe
and profitable, whether your
subscription is for £lO, £l,OOO,
£lO,OOO or more. Not only does
it help to protect your future,
it assists in maintaining
Australia’s prosperity as well.
Here are the facts you want
about the Eighth Security Loan:
LOAN FACTS:
The full amount sought is re-
quired to pay for Repatriation
and Rehabilitation, for Public
Works and Services of the
Commonwealth and States and,
as may be necessary, for
the redemption of unconverted
securities of the maturing
Loans.
For 31% Bonds, you may sub-
scribe for £lO, or any multiple
thereof.
For 3|% Inscribed Stock, mini-
mum subscription is £lOO, but if
you already hold that amount,
you may increase your holding
by any multiple of £lO.
For 2% Bonds and Inscribed
Stock, you may subscribe for
£l,OOO or multiples thereof.
Your bank will hold Bonds in
safe custody without charge.
You may invest for 3 years at
2% p.a. (subject to the above
conditions), or for 14 years at
3i% p.a.
Interest, calculated from the
date funds are lodged at banks,
savings banks or money order
post offices, will be paid on
15th April and 15th October
each year. It may be credited
to your bank or savings bank
account without charge,
Bonds or Stock may be readily
sold if you need to use your
| money before the date of
maturity.
CONVERSION
OF MATURING
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITIES
Investors holding Bonds or
Inscribed Stock in previous
Commonwealth Loans which
have recently matured or are
about to mature may renew
their investments by converting
into the Eighth Security Loan.
These are the maturing issues;
Maturing 15th September: 2i%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1945—three issues.
The maturity date shown on
these Securities is 15th Sep-
tember, 1949-1950, but the
Treasurer has exercised his
option to redeem these Securities
on 15th September, 1949, and
they became due for conversion
on that date).
Maturing 15th October: 2%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1946—tw0 issues);
31% Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935 —one issue).
Maturing 15th November: 33%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935 and 1936—tw0
issues).
If you hold Bonds and In-
scribed Stock in any of the
issues listed above, convert
your holdings at once into the
Eighth Security Loan. See your
bank immediately.
operation, Military Government
will cease and civilian High
Commissioners will take over.
Though the “occupation statute”
sets out the general relationship
between the occupation Powers
and the German Government,
the actual lines of authority re-
main to be drawn in practice.
In the N. Y. “Times” view,
those day-to-day relationships
seem likely to produce strain and
difficulties as the new nation
rises, and much depends on how
the Allies, as well as the Ger-
mans, use their.authority.
U.S. Negro Headache.
Uncle Sam has already had
headaches enough from his
negro problem, but nothing to
what a Washington corres-
pondent of London “Times”
sees coming up for him in the
future from a most remarkable
cause—that is, mechanisation on
the cottonfields of the South.
Experiments have shown that.
while a hand-cultivated acre of
cotton took 130 man-hours, a
mechanised acre took only 21
man-hours. With full mechanisa-
tion that will be reduced to be-
tween nine and 10 man-hours;
one man-hour will suffice where
13 were needed before.
The correspondent points out
that in an area where between
250,000 and 300,000 men, women
and children were employed in
cotton-cultivation 200,000 will
become unnecessary. When
some 80 per cent, of the labor
has been displaced, much of it
at a time when the industrial
North is no longer expanding
and in no position to absorb
additional labor, there will be
serious problems of unemploy-
ment and many of the racial
stresses, which traditionally are
confined to the South, will
spread to the North as well.
“Ever since the first northern
migration of the negroes in 1917
and 1918 the conflict has been
near the surface in such cities
as New York, Detroit and
Chicago, and, during and since
the last war, there have been
disturbances in these cities which
are a reminder of what can hap-
pen.
“The mechanisation of cot-
ton-growing may, over the next
20 years, drive so many negroes
north that the perennial and in-
soluble problem of relations be-
tween the white and colored
races will become as dangerous
in the North as it has long
been in the South. Such a de-
velopment would have much to
be said for it. The burden of
trying to solve it alone would
be lifted from the South, and the
North would find many of the
self-righteous attitudes it has
adopted less easy to maintain,
and might even begin to feel
sympathy with those in the
South who have struggled for
so many years to find a solu-
tion.”
World Calendar.
With the descent on Britain
from the U.S. of Miss Elisabeth
Achelis, a leading figure in the
movement for a new “world
calendar,” some further details
of the proposed calendar have
been published. Miss Achelis’s
aim is to enlist British support in
U.N.Oi
The calendar, survivor of
many that were submitted to
the League of Nations, has
strong supporters in, it is
claimed, more than 40 countries.
Britain’s Astronomer Royal, Sir
Harold Spencer Jones, is quoted ;
“Many of the foremost astrono-
mers in all countries have ex-
pressed themselves in favor of
a world calendar. I am per-
sonally in favor of this plan.”
To summarise from a London
“Times” report, the proposed
world calendar would divide the
first 364 days of the solar year
into four equal quarters, each
having 91 days. In each
quarter the first month (January,
April, July and October) would
have 31 days, and the others 30
days. The 365th day, known
as Year-End Day, or World’s
Day, would be a holiday, inter-
posed between Saturday, Decem-
ber 30, and Sunday, January 1.
Leap-Year Day, every fourth
year, would be interposed be-
tween Saturday, June 30, and
Sunday, July 1, and would be
a holiday.
Among advantages claimed
are that a date would fall on
the same day of the week every
year ; that it would help in mak-
ing comparisons between figures
computed for all periods,
whether weeks, months, quarters
or years ; holidays would be per-
manently fixed, although the
World Calendar Association does
not regard the stabilisation of
Easter or other religious festivals
as one of its objects. Christmas
Day would always fall on a Mon-
day. It was pointed out that St.
Patrick’s Day (March 17) would
fall on a Sunday; Miss Achelis
said that no objection had come
from the Irish, People whose
birthdays fell on March 31, May
31 or August 31 (days which
would disappear from this
calendar) “could keep them one
day earlier.”
Last year file association
hoped that the United Nations
would introduce the new calen-
dar in 1950, which begins on a
Sunday, as the world calendar
year would do; Miss Achelis
now hopes for agreement in time
for 1951, the first year of the
new half-century. Sunday,
December 31, 1950, would be-
come a “World’s Day,” and 1951
would begin on a Sunday in-
stead of on a Monday.
Dragnet Digest.
Corns’ Election Programme.—Evi-
dently Britain’s Socialists and Corns
share much the same kinship as the
colonel’s lady and Judy O’Grady, the
Corns’ general-elections programme
being issued with the title “The
Socialist Road for Britain,” and the
programme itself being simply a
logical extension of the present
Socialist nationalising. It proposes
immediate nationalising of land,
building, building materials, shipping,
shipbuilding and ship repair, chemi-
cals, engineering, food processing, the
joint stock banks and industrial
assurance companies.
* * * *
Steel-mill for Tito.— Replying to
criticism of the U.S, Government for
providing Tito with material for a
steel-mill, Secretary of State Acheson
said that, while such a plant in Com-
munist hands could conceivably do
harm to the Western countries, “this
is a calculated risk that must be
taken if Yugoslavia is not to become
a much more valuable member of the
Eastern bloc than she is while Tito
holds out against the Cominform.”
Supporting the move, N. Y. “Sun”
pointed out that Yugoslavia can’t
possibly win without the tools of pro-
duction ; “Even with these she may
lose out. Tito may be overthrown,
in which case any steel-plant he
might have established could be
moved to Russia, and certainly would
be used for the Soviet advantage.”
That risk, however, was thought well
Worth taking.
♦ * * *
Friendly Truman. —President Tru-
man’s cabled statement that a way
would be found to help Britain out
of its present trouble would be no
surprise to London “Times,” which
a few weeks earlier had editorially
commented: “The present Adminis-
tration in the United States has no
liking for Socialism, but it has demon-
strated many times already that it has,
from the President down, perhaps a
greater sympathy with, and under-
standing of, British problems, both
political and economic, than any
previous American Administration.”
Which, remembering Roosevelt, is
saying quite a lot.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
China Chaos. —Indications of plenty
to keep Chinese Communist con-
querors busy for quite a long time
after the fighting can be gleaned from
many overseas reports arriving by
airmail. One is the announcement
that a whole 2,000,000 people are to
be moved from Shanghai and re-
settled in “useful occupations.” The
categories to be shifted say enough
in themselves of chaos, the tally being
made up of 1,000,000 “unemployed
shopkeepers and their families,”
650,000 “urban poor,” 100,000
“refugee landlords and their families,”
and another 170,000 roundly classi-
fied as “loafers.” Other signs include
the announcement of a Communist-
ordered drive against “dissident
peasants,” who are “staging open
armed revolts” and “must be com-
pletely annihilated.”
* * * *
British Com. Candidates. —Support
for Lord Vansittart’s warning on the
spread of the Communist fifth-column
in Britain (recently quoted here) is
found in the fact that for the next
British general elections the Corns
are putting 100 candidates in the field,
compared with 21 at the last general
elections. They will, of course, side
with the Socialists, as their kind will
in Australia. Their vice-chairman,
speaking on their election programme,
has said that “Communist support
would be given to candidates of the
Labor Independent group where there
was no Communist candidate, and
where there was only an official
Labor candidate they would support
such a candidate against the Con-
servatives and Liberals.”
* * * *
Drain on Earth’s Resources. —Dr.
R. P. Linstead, F.R.S., addressing
the British Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science: “It has been
stated that more minerals have been
taken out of the ground in the United
States since 1900 than from the whole
world during the whole of pre-
vious history.” Similarly, figures pre-
pared for the American counterpart
of that association are quoted as
showing that by the end of 1947 the
cumulative production of coal during
all past human history amounted to
approximately 81,000,000,000 metric
tons. Of this, 40,000,000,000 has been
mined and consumed since 1920.
Sixty-two thousand million has been
produced since 1900. Or, again, the
cumulative production or petroleum
by the end of 1947 was 9,170,000,000
cubic metres. Of this, one-half has
been produced and consumed since
1937, and 97 per cent, since 1900.
)


SINCE 1847
THAN A CENTURY
WINES
PERSONAL ITEMS
In Brisbane from Redbourn, Hertford-
shire (Eng.), to look the north over with
a view to settling here, Daniel Skillman,
a quiet, likeable giant of about 6ft. 3in.
whose life to date has been the anti-
thesis of settled. Squadron-leader and
D.F.C. of Hitler’s war, he flew Path-
finders in 59 ops. over Germany, 21 of
them over Berlin, and holds a first-class
navigator’s ticket. After the war he
helped pioneer Latin-American Airways,
when Air Vice-Marshal Bennett started
that show, and admits, on being pressed,
that the route is the toughest in exist-
ence, with such lumpy spots as Brazil,
Uruguay, Argentine, Chile and Peru be-
tween starting in England and ending in
Newfoundland. Skillman piloted the first
civil plane out of the new London Air-
port when it was opened on January 1,
1946, navigated (with Bennett flying) the
first Tudor aircraft on the London-
Bermuda route, and on the return trip
established a record between both points
of Hi hours —which still stands.
“Macnell”: Commander Charles
Stephenson, who goes from the Navy’s
radar-school at Watson’s Bay (Sydney)
to N.0.1.C., Kure, hails from Norfolk
Island, and did most of his ship-
handling in those prime teachers in the
art —destroyers. In destroyer Electra
(that deathless little craft which burst
through a smoke-screen in the Java Sea
battle on to the waiting guns of Jap
cruisers and destroyers and fired her last
shot as she went under) he served on the
Spanish patrol during Spain’s civil war,
and soon after World War II broke out
had temporary command of sloop Yarra.
Vendetta, of the Scrap-iron Flotilla, was
his next destroyer command ; he brought
her from the Mediterranean to Singa-
pore. When the Japs struck, Stephenson
had most of his engine-room on the pier,
and when the first bombers sailed over
he bolted his guns there, too, and ac-
counted for at least one aircraft. He left
her soon after (thus missing the old girl’s
epic trip back home on the end of a
tow-wire), but took her again after she’d
refitted and drove her round New Guinea
on fast ferrying runs. Destroyer Napier
saw him next, then Nepal, in which the
sea sequences of Noel Coward’s “In
Which We Serve” were filmed, and in
which Stephenson made himself
generally unwelcome round the Jap-held
Burmese coast.
In Brisbane with a cargo from the
Workers’ Paradise, Second Engineer A.
F. Tocher, of the freighter Kafiristan,
uttered some heresies. Red wharfies
loaded his ship at Napodka, 60 miles
from Vladivostok, in record time. They
worked from 5 p.m. tp 7 a.m., with one
15-minute break, under the incentive of
armed Russian guards on both loading-
barge and ship. Admittedly that is not
the whole story —the borders of Paradise
were perhaps further inland. But Tocher
can’t pronounce on that; neither he nor
any crew-member was allowed to land.
Out of harness in Mackay (Q.), R. B.
Mclntosh, after 25 years’ engineering with
the Main Roads Commission from top
to bottom of the State. An armorer-
sergeant in the old 15th Battalion, he was
invalided home from Gallipoli with the
scarred total of 18 wounds collected on
five occasions. He collected as well his
captaincy and M.C. A staunch patriot,
the 66-year-old Digger’s opening question
when a man applied for a job was:
“What did you do for your country?”
Despite a permanent limp, from a shat-
tered leg that would have kept less tough
men in hospital, he formed and com-
manded the Mackay V.D.C. in the later
war, and was most indignant when a
medical board condemned him unfit.
Anyway, the limp couldn’t keep him
from personally inspecting some of the
State’s toughest country.
Maoriland has imported a professor of
coalmining, J. Ivon Graham, for its School
of Mines in Dunedin. The prof, has
full claim to the title—he was adviser
to Britain’s National Coal Board when
MX. enticed him away.
Another Amethyst award has been
gazetted, this time to R.A.F. Flight-Lt.
Kenneth Letford, already wearing D.S.O.
and D.F.C., who adds a bar to the former
for a gallantly skilful piece of work in
landing his flying-boat on the Yangtse
near the stranded sloop. From the flying-
boat a naval surgeon pulled under fire
in a small boat to Amethyst, and in it
Letford took off naval wounded. In
doing so, of course, he ran the risk of
peeling his hull open on the same bars
that could have trapped the ship.
“Bo’s” requiem;
Richard Strauss, who has passed on at 85,
could have been named the greatest living
composer, but that would have referred only
to his works up to his splendid opera “Der
Rosenkavalier,” in 1911, after which his in-
spiration dried up, though not his skill as an
orchestrator nor, unfortunately, his output. His
is one of the few instances of true genius—
some of his work will have a permanent place
alongside the greatest—so burning itself out at
a comparatively early age. Munich-born, Strauss
came of wealthy parents and began composing
at six. At 12 he had published his first opus,
a festival march. There followed a stupendous
output—operas, symphonic poems (after he had
turned from the classical-romanticism of
* Brahms and Schumann to the new school of
music of which Liszt and Wagner were the
twin prophets) and songs, including the famous
“Serenade.” Strauss was never exactly a
shrinking violet, but he let his vanity go
properly when he made himself the hero of
his own “Hero’s Life,” the battle scenes of
which are a horror. In World War I he tagged
along with the Hohenzollerns; later with Hitler,
until his collaboration in an opera with the
librettest Stefan Zweig put him on the outer.
But tolerant musical England held no grudges.
He was there two years ago, and conducted
his own works with great success.
* “T.M.M.”: It was more than chance
that put Sergeant Robert Gray (B.
31/8/’49) in at the finish of the Kelly
gang. He was a fine horseman —carrying
off the Echuca (Vic.) Hurdle on Maid of
All Work —and a better rifle-shot; he
won the Victorian championship twice,
and the Geelong title. He retired in 1919,
to live at Echuca and train some classy
trotters.
There is little in the face of Pastor
Niemoller, here pictured in characteristic
pose by Dubois, to indicate either his
experiences in concentration camps or in
World War I U-boats. Though lean, his
face is practically unlined, and its alert-
ness seems more the intellectual than the
fighting brand. Until you’re held by his
eyes. Of a peculiar hardness, penetrat-
ing in their swift appraisal, they window
the uncrushable spirit of the man who
opposed Hitler and who had sunk
thousands of tons of Allied shipping
in World War I and won the Iron
Cross, First-class, for a brilliant sub-
surface raid that extended, in those short-
range days, from the North Sea to South
Africa. Niemoller seems to have been
one of the old-school submariners, who
PASTOR NIEMOLLER.
delivered warnings before torpedoes;
when from his pulpit in a Berlin suburb
in 1938 he denounced the evils of Nazism,
and ended on trial, a couple of British
admirals added their appeals for fair
play. Acquitted, in effect (he had already
served his seven-months’ sentence), Nie-
moller left the court and was immediately
rearrested. He was still in concentration
camp when the Americans loosed him in
1945.
Coventry here puts on show Sir Edward
Salisbury, director of the Royal Botanic
Gardens, Kew, leader of the British
Commonwealth Scientific Conference on
plant and animal nutrition now looking-
over Australia, and eminent ecologist—
in his words, “a student of why plants
grow where they do.” Sir Edward, who
could be mistaken for nothing but an
English country gentleman, and who came
here to learn, not teach, gave up a pro-
SIR EDWARD SALISBURY,
gardener de luxe.
fessorship of botany at London Univer-
sity to care for the 300 acres of Royal
flower-beds ; his qualifications, apart from
an impressive showing of botanical and
agricultural presidencies and lectureships,
include ability to name a week-old seed-
ling when it’s still a tiny thread of barely-
visible green, and to recognise most of the
British umbellifers (the celery, carrot,
parsley group to the suburbanite) by their
smell. And he has counted hundreds of
thousands of individual seeds while esti-
mating the seed output of various species.
Recreation, voluntary slavery—called by
some gardening.
Tom McKenna, of Howth
(Tas.), has just received his life-member-
ship medal from the North-Western Foot-
ball Union. The election was made in
1931; presentation of the medal slipped
the union’s memory for 18 years.
Group-Captain C, S. Wiggins, new
Assistant Director-General (Technical) of
the Department of Civil Aviation, began
his signalling as a wireless amateur in
1912, when the crystal and the cat’s-
whisker were replacing the coherer. He
entered the Army through Duntroon, and
was commissioned in 1920 as one of the
first signals engineers to graduate from
there. The period of Army doldrums
shortly after was responsible for his re-
signing his commission to have a shot at
banana-growing in Queensland, but he
was soon back with appointment as sig-
nals-officer and a flying course at Point
Cook. He was Director of Signals at
H.Q. in 1935 when Civil Aviation sent
him round the world to see what was
doing with radio in communication and
navigation; back home he installed,
among other systems, the Lorenz blind-
landing system as the main navigational
aid. World War II gave him the Direc-
torship of Signals, with rank of group-
captain and service under American
generals Brett and Kenney. With the
war ended, he organised the Directorate
of Air Navigation and Safety, and, on
discharge from the R.A.A.F., became its
director.
Grounded arms last week after 45
years’ soldiering, 39 of them with the
permanent Army, Colonel Claude Easter-
brook, who joined up in 1904 in the Aus-
tralian Infantry Regiment, and in 1910
became one of the first locally-trained
sar’n-majors. As such he went on to
Gallip. with the 7th L.H., and a few
months later put two pips on his shoulders
and won D.S.O. and M.C.
Present at the Henry Lawson celebra-
tions at Eurunderee (N.S.W.) were four
State Ms.L.A. and an endorsed Liberal
candidate for the new Federal seat of
Lawson, Roy Croft. Aged 38, Croft is a
native of Dunedoo (N.S.W.), where he
was a general storekeeper before selling
out to conduct his campaign. ■ Schooled
at St. Stanislaus College, Bathurst, he be-
came well-known in western N.S.W. as
an athlete. In World War II he was with
the 2/161 Independent Platoon. Two
other candidates are in the field for
Lawson, which embraces parts of the old
Gwydir, Calare and Darling electorates—
H. A. Manning (Labor), grazier of Men-
dooran, and L. J. Failes (Country party),
stock-and-station agent from Coona-
barabran.
On April 20, 1770, Captain J. Cook,
R.N., in the first British man-o’-war to
cleave these waters, sighted what is now
named Cape Everard. Almost 180 years
later another Captain Cook, R.N., is on
his way here, collared by the Naval
Board from the Admiralty to direct the
aircraft repair and maintenance of our
first carrier! The later Captain Cook
brings 20-odd years’ engineering experi-
ence with him. In World War 11, as
engineer-officer of King George V in’ the
British Pacific Fleet, he was responsible
for the vast turbines, the 152,000 horses
and tons of auxiliary machinery of the
30-knot battler. He relieves Commander
■Turner, R.N., who was in carrier In-
domitable at the same time round the
Philippines and points no^th.
In Sydney to give industries here a
once-over. Sir Allan Gordon-Smith, chair-
man of the Smith Group, makers of
clocks and K.L.G. spark-plugs. Sir Allan
built his present big concern of 20
factories—largest motor-accessories firm
in Europe, it also makes aircraft instru-
ments and turns out a clock every four
seconds—from his father’s jewellery busi-
ness in 1903, when Britain’s automobile
industry was feeling its wheels. Most of
the old-stagers registered their 12-odd
m.p.h. on Smith’s speedos. Recently he
founded, by Government request, the
National College of Horology and Instru-
ment Technology. He spare-times with
breeding blood-stock, and owns Happy
Haven, one of England’s smartest two-
year-old fillies. Accompanying Sir Allan
is Major Carington, one of the earliest
racers at Brooklands, and associate of the
late K. Lee Guiness, with whom he de-
veloped the spark-plug bearing the
former’s initials.
_ Into the Silence:
In Sydney, Henry Harvey Dare, one-time
Commissioner for Irrigation and Water Con-
seryation, River Murray Commission, and one
or the first gold-medallists in civil engineering
from Sydney Umyersity.
In Launceston, at 69, Peter Percy Pike,
M.H.A. for Wilmot (Tas.) since 1943, and
Speaker of the House. He started as a printer
in Tasmanian newspaper offices, and by 1942
was Federal president of the Printing Industry
Union.
In Melbourne, Olive Lawson, wife of knight
Harry Lawson, Victorian Premier in the early
’twenties. She was an unflagging worker in
State hospital, Liberal-party and Red Cross
organisations. One of her three sons, a flying-
officer, was killed in 1941.
In Melbourne, at 74, David Stirling, former
schoolteacher who became gen.-sec. of the
Australian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy
and secretary of the Victorian Chamber of
Mines.
In Cleveland (U.S.A.), at 30, in a modified
Air Force fighter, William Odom, while clock-
ing better than 400 m.p.h. in the National Air
Races. One of America’s front-rank fliers,
he had two days earlier won the Sohio Trophy
closed-course race at a record 388.3 m.p.h.
Two years back he set up the round-the-world
record of 73hr. smin., still unbeaten.
At 81, in Melbourne, Joseph Neild, snapping
a link with early Melbourne cultural life. Son
of Dr. James Neild, one-time City Coroner
noted for his art and literature salons, Joseph
was the hon. official historian of South Mel-
bourne, member of most of the city’s cultural
organisations, the first Honorable Trencherman
of the Bread and Cheese Club, and at the end
was writing a life of his father.
In Brisbane, at 53, suddenly from a heart-
attack, William Charles Young, field-manager
of the Peak Downs (Q.) food-scheme. One-time
engineer in Rockhampton and Townsville with
the Main Roads Commission, when war broke
he joined the A.W.C. in its defence projects
throughout N. Australia and New Guinea.
After the war he took on the State Housing
Commissionership.
In Sydney, at 55, Herbert Schey, Old Digger,
and good cobber to legless and paralysed
ex-servicemen. For years after World War I.
in which he was gassed in France with the
7th Brigade Artillery, he plugged solidly for
the betterment of maimed Diggers, and was as
well secretary to three Service Funds.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
The foyer of St. Kilda Town Mall on
the night of the Battle for Britain Ball
contained a reproduction picture of the
Derby Cathedral memorial window,
whilst on the stage was set a 6ft. model
of the latest fighter aircraft, with a barrage
of red, white and blue balloons floating
overhead. A massive model bulldog
giiSkded the official table, and red, white
and blue flowers, arranged as color-
patthes, were decorative features on the
table. Air Vice-Marshal and Mrs. F. M.
Bladin, with Air Vice-Marshal and Mrs.
E. C. Wackett, received the Governor-
General and Mrs. McKell. Mrs. Bladin’s
gown of primrose-yellow featured a filmy
tulle skirt allied to a bodice of matching
velvet; Mrs. Wackett wore black Chan-
tilly lace over pink taffeta. In the official
party also were Air-Marshal and Mrs.
George Jones, the latter wearing a creamy
satin flounqgd gown patterned in autumn-
toned flowers. Mrs. S. J. Fletcher, wife
of the Consul-General for the U.S., was
in a gown of royal-blue crepe romaine,
on the shoulders of which was multi-
colored bead trimming. Wife of the
U.S. Army Air Force Attache, Mrs. F.
Gillespie, wore a black velvet gown, the
skirt slimly-cut and the bodice made with
a scooped-out neckline and with tiny
puff-sleeves.
Mrs, S. F. Rowell’s gown of Avocado-
green crepe had a large bustle bow, and
a deep frill outlined the square neckline.
Wife of Rear-Admiral C. T. M. Pizey,
R. attractively combined white crepe
and royal-blue and red flowers. Mrs. Val
Hancock’s blue crepe gown had a tunic
top. Mrs, D. Candy’s ice-blue satin frock
had a fichu collar. Mrs. A. Murdoch’s
gown was of hyacinth-blue crepe. Bright
green taffeta was allied with black taffeta
in Mrs. Richard Cresswell’s gown. White
chiffon draperies flowed gracefully on the
wife of Major-General Bridgford. Mrs.
John Daverin’s grey lace bodice was allied
to a skirt of filmy grey tulle. Mrs. Bruce
Rose’s gown was of pastel-pink organdie ;
the skirt ruffled and flounced, and with
a matching stole veiling her shoulders.
Yellow-, blue- and red-striped taffeta
fashioned the gown worn by Mrs. F.
Scherger. Mrs. E. A. Daley’s black tulle
gown was mounted on blue taffeta.
Beech-brown Chantilly lace over lime-
green taffeta made smart effect for Mrs.
John McConaghy,
When Davie Gladstone (Aunt Eller in
“Oklahoma”) received her guests at the
farewell party she gave to her friends in
the Orchid Room at the Australia, she
wore a stunning beige crepe frock. Ad-
miring it, friends said, “Of course, you
brought it from America,” and received
a pleasant surprise when told it was the
creation of a young Melbourne lad. The
gown was cut on sheath lines, with a
slight draping drawn to one side and two
deep folds at the hemline. Her unusual
headdress was a drooping black osprey
falling from a narrow jewel-studded
bandeau. Among her guests were Mrs.
S. J. Fletcher, whose navy jacket-suit
was worn with a pastel-pink felt hat
veiled in navy tulle ; Mrs. Roy Youlden,
whose navy gabardine coat was made
with a swing back and worn with a navy-
and-white hat; and her sister, Mrs,
G. Schnabl, whose green Paisley silk
frock had the pattern outlined with gold
and green sequins and was worn with a
brown velvet hat trimmed with white
grosgrain (Mrs. Youlden and Mrs.
Schnabl are sisters of Mrs. Oscar Ham-
merstein II); Mrs. Paul Dane in a smart
navy frock with platina foxes and a pale
yellow panama hat trimmed with a
chou of black ribbon; Mrs. Ron Find-
lay, in crimson silk skirt and a matching
lace bodice.
The latest Tivoli offering, “Variety
Cavalcade,” is gay, tuneful and colorful.
To the women members of the audience
the show might have been called
“Fashion Cavalcade,” for that is what it
virtually was, with emphasis on the old-
time styles to which so many modern
designers have turned for inspiration. In
“The Songs That Made Variety” number
were seen the tight, uplifted bodice and
the beflounced and bustled dresses of the
’nineties. Even the slit-skirt and high-
plumed hat of 1910 were chic reminders
of present-day trends. Very modernistic
in contrast were the attractive costumes
worn in the “On the Tiles” act, with rose-
pink silk stockings and green gloves
matching the tiny top-hats. Sartorial star
of the show is the beautiful girl who
appears with the Merry Macs. She
wears a stunning royal-blue crepe
gown with an inset panel of paler blue,
the Whole ensemble trimmed with sequins.
In the large first-night audience were
Margot Hain, who was with her mother,
Mrs. Gladys Hain, Mrs. Royden Honey-
man, who matched her frock with a deep-
mauve taffeta hat trimmed with lilac,
Mesdames David and Frank Martin, Mrs.
H Silk and Mrs. S. Aarons.
Myra Roper, who addressed the
American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Children’s Hospital, makes her speech in
soft but telling tones, and very obviously
believes in women working with subtlety
to achieve their ambition of entering
politics or filling an important post in
public life. Special guests at the meeting
were Mrs. Rufus Ramey, the wife of the
newly-arrived U.S. Military and
her daughter Miriam. Other newcomers
to this city who were welcomed by the
auxiliary were Mesdames John Mathias,
Gordon Harris, Ralph Ward and W.
Pringle. To departing members, Mes-
dames E. R. Pierce, J. S. Sauer and Mrs.
David Ferber, were presented specially-
inscribed pearl-handled spoons. Mrs.
Herbert Allen, senior vice-president of
the auxiliary, took the chair, and hostesses
for the afternoon were Mesdames Alan
Newton, Claude Deem and G. K. Warner.
When Suzanne Leslie, youngest
daughter of Mrs. Kenneth Guest, of
Eltham, and the late Captain Leslie
Holden, was married at St. John’s,
Toorak, to Nigel Macarthur Boyd
Graham, she wore a bouffant, slightly-
trained gown of magnolia faille, which
had a tight-fitting, pearl-studded jacket.
Her tulle veil was held with a
circlet of orange blossom. The bride’s
sisters Pamela and Judith were brides-
maids ; their twisted triple strings of
pearls, the gifts of the ’groom, exactly
matched the lace gowns they wore. Softly
gathered on the shoulders, the gowns had
full skirts with gathered inlets of tulle at
the hems. They carried pink tulips, and
wore bands of pink tulle with ear-muffs
of pink feathers on their heads. The
bridegroom, who is the only son of Dr.
and Mrs. H. Boyd Graham, of Malvern,
had Bill Low as best man and Roy Ricker
as groomsman. Ushers at the chuch were
Norman Steele, John Cumming-Parry,
Max Miller and David Low. Reception
was at Menzies’.
The subject of this John Warlow
portrait is Mrs. Margaret Saker, who for
the past three years has been the suc-
cessful organiser of the Miss Australia
Quest. Through her wise planning and
hard work, the quest has been the means
of raising many thousands of pounds for
charity. This year the proceeds from it
will be equally divided between the Lord
Mayor’s Fund and Legacy. Mrs. Saker’s
latest success was to obtain the gala
premiere of the French Fashion Show for
the quest funds. Although 40 candidates
have already entered the quest, Mrs.
Saker appeals for more country girls to
submit their candidatures.
At the premiere of the Paris Fashion
Parade, which took the form of a gala
dinner in the Myer Mural Hall, the man-
nequins made their entrance through a
decor depicting the Forest of Fontaine-
bleau. A bright green backcloth and stark
white ruins of colonnades draped with
white chiffon and trails of flowers and
masses of cinerarias made a lovely set-
ting. In the foyer the air was full of
fragrant French perfume, and a fountain
was set in the centre.* Whitewashed
lamp-posts bearing the names of Paris
streets led into the Mural Hall, and along
the runway where the mannequins
walked lamp-posts guided the way.
Dominique, a redhead, Paula and Denise
were the French girls. One was missing—
Colette was confined to bed with measles.
The pretty Australians in the parade were
Robirj Stanton and Gwen Wilkinson.
Mrs. Margaret Saker, organiser of the
Miss Australia Quest, greeted the official
guests. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S.
Disney, wore azure-blue crepe romaine;
the skirt cut in flowing panels and with
chalk-white beads embroidering the waist-
line and covered by a white Arctic stole.
She was accompanied by her daughter-in-
law, Mrs. Alec Hay, whose rust-toned
shot-taffeta gown was very full as to
skirt.
From Sydney
The week turned on its best day for
the Red Cross race meeting at Randwick
last Saturday. Trees, flowers and lawns
wore a sparkling look, but although some
straw- and flower-trimmed hats said
“Hello” to spring the tailor-mades and
light-wool ensembles with which they were
worn were a reminder that the weather
is still chancy. A brisk trade was done
in the sale of buttons by blue-uniformed
V.As. There was a lunch in the chair-
man’s room presided over by Mrs. W. R.
Dovey, at which the wife of the Governor-
General, Mrs. W. J. McKell, daughter
Betty and Sydney’s Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
E. C. O’Dea, and other official guests were
present. Among styles noted were Mrs.
C. R. McKerihan’s ostrich-feather
trimmed hat, the grey woollen tailor-
made accompanied by honey-straw hat
worn by Mrs. Ernest Watt and Mrs.
Norman Hill’s navy-and-white ensemble.
Everywhere you go these days the talk
is of the Naughty' Nineties Ball. This
will revive some of the pictorial quality,
the zest for life that bubbled over to the
gaudy and glorious way of life known on
both sides of the Atlantic. The ball will
aid the Spastic Centre, and will be held
in the A.G.I. showrooms in William-
street on September 30. Mrs. W. J.
Smith, who is president of the ball com-
mittee, is pictured here by John Lee as
herself. On the big night she will dazzle
as Diamond Lil —a Mae West character.
Last week this Letter had a private
view of the specially-tinted feathers
which will be piled on her hat. They
are shaded from a gorgeous ruby to an
almost hibiscus-pink. Thesd will top a
frock of sleek cerise satin. There are to
be prizes for period costumes. Mae West
has sent a filmy pink nightie for the win-
ning lady. To this the committee has
added a portrait of the winner (no, not
in the nightie) by Howard Veal. Wil-
liam-street will clatter with horses’
hooves on the night of the ball, for some
of the guests are arriving by landau and
some by hansom-cab.
The American Women’s Club held its
third birthday party last Wednesday at
the Pickwick. But the “club” is only an
old friend in a new name. It began as the
Australian-American League of Help.
Later it became the American Women’s
Circle. Vice-Consul for U.S. Parker
and Mrs. Parker were there. He
spoke on the American citizen abroad
and what the service of Consulates meant
to their people. Mrs. Parker’s ensemble
of off-white and navy and her dark-blue
up-swept beret were effective.
Mrs. Maurice Pasquet, wife of the
U.S. Consul for N.S.W., was a guest; so
were Mrs. Eva Hayes (mother of Annie
Get Your Gun, now making a big hit
but nearly freezing in Maoriland), Mrs.
Evans-Jones, Mrs. Sid Allbright, Mrs.
Maurice Samuels and a great company
of those ladies who, as well as helping
local good works, take a sympathetic in-
terest in their own ex-servicemen settled
here.
Mrs. Dan Kelly sat at the piano for
almost an hour playing with dash such
songs as “God Bless America,” “Oh,
Susanna” and “Camptown Races.” Every-
body sang gaily, and there was quite a
surging choral effect about “The Star
Spangled Banner” and “God Save the
King.” Belle of the afternoon was Miss
Eva Coffee, Mrs. Dan Kelly’s aunt,
whose erect deportment was much ad-
mired. Ritual of the afternoon was the
cutting by Mrs, Pasquet of a rich plummy
cake, white-iced with “American Women's
Club” scrolled in pink. President of the
club, Mrs. E. A. Haas, received the
guests, I
General Herring’s wife, who works un-
tiringly for the C.W.A., writes to tell of
the Bellevue Hill branch’s fifth birthday
on September 17. Celebration will be a
garden party at Mrs. Herring’s Killara
home —the spring blooms are already a
delight. Singers of the afternoon Will be
Donald Cameron and June Gough—a
pretty girl from Broken Hill. Guests of
honor will be Lieut.-General Berryman
and Mrs. Berryman, and the General will
talk on “Empire.”
The Sydney Art Group cleverly netted
actor Robert Morley to open its show at
David Jones’s Art Gallery last Monday.
Speech was at one-thirty, as that was the
only time Mr. Morley, busy on the re-
hearsals of “Edward, My Son,” had free.
In city, suburb and country town the
Fashion Parade is popular afternoon
entertainment for the girls. “You’re
lovely, madame,” was the title given to
one of last week’s most interesting dis-
plays. This was produced by Yvonne
Nelson, and was a very successful effort
by the junior social committee of the
N.S.W. Institution for Deaf, Dumb and
Blind children. This filled Prince’s with
admiring gasps from 300 fair sighers
when a 50-guinea hat, all up-swept black
feather fronds, hove in view. The frocks
shown here were designed by Beryl Gents.
In the ballroom of Merioola at 9 p.m. on
September 15, Hanni Wilson and Mrs,
La Grave will sponsor a showing of the
Boriss spring collection. Cotton and
summer-weight frocks will be star
features. Pierre Barbier is designing
artistic setting. Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere
and members of her committee are sup-
plying a supper of drinks and sand-
wiches, for the parade will help the funds
of the Black and White Ball, which in
turn helps the Indsstrial Blind Institute.
An Italian artist, Campigli, is the man
behind the amusing, slightly mocking
pictures of the ladies adorning the new
fashion display floor at David Jones’s.
Campigli, it would seem, is all for the
hour-glass figure—waists taper away to
attenuation-point. The decorations are
enlargements of tiny plates by local
artists. They’ve done a good job, too.
Amid the butterfly-hued display, a
pair of sequinned black suede gloves
caught the gaze. A murmured inquiry as
to price brought a reply that sounded
like £7 something. A wide straw hat of
lacquer yellow with a twist of narrow
yellow velvet about the crown was a
modest 12 guineas. Some of these im-
ported hats are really lovely—they have a
pre-war softness and allure about them.
Only the price-tags prevent the ordering
of them by the dozen.
The C.W.A. Younger Set held en-
thusiastic conference in Federation
House, Phillip-street, recently. Over 100
delegates arrived from Albury, Armi-
dale, Bellingen, Coff’s Harbor, Nundle,
Nyngan, Temora, Wagga and such-
like notable centres. Elizabeth Northcott
presided, and Mrs. Barbara Cullen pre-
sented the Cullen-Mclntosh Cup—an
annual award to the younger set which
has the highest percentage of increase
of membership during the past year. One
of the entertainments for the visitors was
a concert in Federation Hall arranged by
the Metropolitan Younger Sets. The en-
tire programme was contributed by mem-
bers and associate-members of East-
wood-Epping and Mosman Younger
Groups, A visit to the zoo and a tour
of inspection of the mail branch of Syd-
ney G.P.O. were rather sedate aspects
of this great city of the Pacific presented
to young country sisters.
A dinner-party at the Australian Club
followed by a dance at Prince’s marked
the announcement of the engagement of
Sheila Macdonald, only daughter of the
A. S. Macdonalds, of Killara, to Clifford
Johnstone, youngest son of the late Mr.
and Mrs. H. O. Johnstone, of Kempsey.
Sheila is a B.Sc. of Sydney Uni., and is
keen on the Little Theatre movement. She
played the name part in Major Barbara in
the Kuring-gai Guild production of this
Shaw play.
On Friday cocktails will be served
at the Officers’ Mess, Bradfield Park,
between 6 and 8 o’clock. Hosts are
the Air Officer Commanding and officers,
Headquarters Eastern Area, R.A.A.F,
Members of its committee say that the
Black and White Ball of 1949 promises
to be the most glittersome of all. Mrs.
Ernest Watt, Mrs. Gregory Blaxland and
Mrs. Frank Packer have designed an
unusual decorative scheme for the
Trocadero. So far their plan is
secret No. 1. Model frocks and hats
and dress-lengths are on the prize-list.
Our own dressmakers will have a chance
to shine, as the creator of the winning
Australian-made frock will receive an
Oscarette, This doesn’t mean that an im-
ported model may not win the first prize.
It does mean that only a local dress-
maker will receive the accolade. This
year there will be separate prizes for the
young girls and for the married women,
Mrs. Robert Morley will be one of the
three judges.


'^^fussbev
S*
m
N 3
GUARANTEED NEVER OR SHRINK
insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Tire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
f
;
■Q?
1
y
in
tins of 20
i
a
i
There are times which call for
something better than the merely
very good , and demand
the unquestionable best. Where
cigarettes are concerned the man
of taste is guided by the
words 66 Benson & Hedges,
Old Bond Street, London ”, From
j this famous address comes fine
tobacco perfection to satisfy all those
occasions when only the best will do.
wm
T
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KING
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
Bensonmj Hedges
LTD
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
Public Notices.
I, ELIAS SCOUFIS, of Greek nationality,
born at Vlahokeria, Arcadia, Greece, and
resident 13 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 16 King Street, Newtown, N.S.W.,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I DIONYSIOS VICATOS, of Greek nation-
ality, born at Kastro, Cephalonia Greece,
and resident 61 years in Australia, now
residing at 8 Station Street, Wentworth-
ville, N.S.AV., intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948.
STATUTORY NOTICE TO NEXT-OF-KIN.
RE GEORGE LEWIS late of Barcaldme
in the State of Queensland, Draper, de-
ceased.—NOTlCE is hereby given that
THOMAS MURRAY half-brother of
George Lewis deceased or any person or
persons claiming by through under
him by derivative title or otherwise are
hereby required to forward to the Local
Deputy Public Curator Rockhampton
proof of their relationship to the said
George Lewis deceased on or before the
30th day of November One thousand nine
hundred and forty-nine and that alter the
expiration of the last-mentioned date the
Local Deputy Public Curator of Rock-
hampton will proceed with the distribu-
tion of the assets of the said deceased
among the parties entitled thereto having
regard only to the claims of which he
shall then have had notice.—DATED this
twenty-sixth day of August, 1949. J. R.
JORDAN, Local Deputy Public Curator.
Rockhampton.
THE SERVICE MAN
"NINETEEN PRIVATES. THIRTY GENERALS."
“Ek Dum”: The story of de-
fence, as presented in the
Budget, makes sad reading.
Before 1939, when the party
at present in power was in op-
position, it used to rage about
the extravagance in expenditure
on defence of money which
might be used to improve
workers’ conditions. And even
after the war began members
of the present and recent Minis-
tries used to assert that it would
be enough for Australia’s
share if we went on selling
Britain food at a high price. One
or two strongly opposed the
building of the Naval graving
dock.
These services to their country
will be enough to assure some
of them, when their time comes.
State funerals on Union Jack
draped gun-carriages like any
warrior. Mr. Ward should be
assured of this honor for his
tirade in 1936 when the Lyons
Government proposed to spend
£5,713,920 on substantive de-
fence, and he burst out (“Han-
sard,” November 5, 1936):
Panic-stricken, the Commonwealth
Government, along with the Imperial
Government, is spending an enormous
amount of money on what it claims
to be defence provisions I should
not be prepared to take up arms
against the workers of Germany or
any other nationality Because I
am not prepared to do that, I am not
prepared to tell others to do so
The workers of Japan, Germany and
other overseas countries are fighting
for identical things that Australian
workers desire. The workers, there-
fore, should examine the position to
find out who are their real enemies;
and when they make this discovery
they should avail themselves of the
earliest opportunity to destroy them.
The Ward of 1936 can be
counted on to be mute when it
comes to his turn to debate the
current Defence Department
estimates. His leader says:
Provision is made for gross
expenditure on defence services of
£64,000,000 as compared with
£61,000,000 in 1948-49.
“Progressing Satisfactorily”
Following that, the Prime
Minister has this: —
The five-year defence programme,-
which extends over the five years
from 1947-48 to 1951-52, is progress-
ing satisfactorily. The total cost of
the programme was originally esti-
mated at £250,000,000. The figure has
now been increased to £295,000,000
as a result of rising costs and certain
changes which have been found neces-
sary since the plans were formulated.
Running satisfactorily! His
own figures show that the Army
estimate of 19,000 for the Per-
manent Force is down to 15,000
—where they appear on the esti-
mates it is difficult to find —and
the Citizen Force of 50,000, on
which the estimate of
£250,000,000 for the Five-year
Defence Plan were based, has a
token average strength of 23,000.
Next Mr. Chifley announces
that
The strength of the Australian
Military Forces in 8.C.0.F. has been
reduced to proportions commensurate
with smaller commitments required
under stabilised conditions. From
Army personnel returned to Australia
during the past twelve months a
Regular Army Brigade Group has
been formed.
The fact is that Australia’s
force in Japan so dwindled from
sheer leakage that it could not
be maintained. The proud and
efficient remains which returned
to Australia wasn’t much more
than enough to establish a
couple of company groups much
less a brigade group. The leak-
ages were not the fault of the
Command but of the general
military conditions established
by the Government. At present
there is about a battalion group
(on a generous estimate) in
Japan.
Its main distinction is that it
is probably the only battalion
group in the world commanded
by a Lieutenant - General —
whose great experience could
certainly be put to better use if
there were material for him to
exercise his undoubted talents
and energy on.
The Army is in a heartbreak-
ing condition. The most surpris-
ing feature about it is that the
various Command H.Q. parade-
grounds are not strewn with
headstones bearing the inscrip-
tion : “Died of a broken heart.”
Last year plans failed so far
that the Government spent only
£14,649,208 on them, against an
estimate of £17,107,000. This
year the proposed expenditure—
£ 14,104,000 —will represent an-
other fall of £545,208, despite
steeply-rising costs and pay.
The R.A.N.
The Royal Australian Navy is
almost as much a matter of de-
light to Mr. Chifley and, pre-
sumably, to his great Naval
Authority, young Mr. Riordan,
as the Army:
Naval aviation is now firmly estab-
lished in the Royal Australian Navy.
The first aircraft-carrier (H.M.A.S.
Sydney) has joined the Fleet as a
fully operational unit. A Naval Air
Station as a base from which the
carrier will operate has been estab-
lished in N. S. Wales. It is ex-
pected that the first destroyer under
the post-war programme will be com-
pleted by the end of 1949 and the
second during 1950.
The statement fails to say that
the first aircraft-carrier is obso-
lescent already and that Aus-
tralian experience was so limited
in off-the-deck flying of high-
speed aircraft that it was found
necessary to import British per-
sonnel. The appointment of
Rear-Admiral Eccles to com-
mand the squadron—a very fine'
appointment indeed if he had the
craft and material to work with
—seems to suggest that it was
necessary to bring in British ex-
perience in the higher as well as
the lower levels.
The news that the first de-
stroyer of the post-war period
will be ready “by the end of
1949” is cheering indeed. It will
be a venerable destroyer with
long whiskers and a rheumy
eye, apt to reminisce about past
glories—it has taken as long to
build as a modern 50,000-ton
battleship in America or Britain,
and what it has cost Heaven
alone knows. Almost as much
as a million Calwell kisses, one
would imagine.
R.A.A.F. “Developments”
Next the Prime Minister en-
larges on “developments in the
Royal Australian Air Force in
1948-49.” The word “develop-
ment” seems to be new to ex- -
press what is happening in the
R.A.A.F. presumably the
word in its technical meaning
as used by Mr. Chifley will be
found in the official “Glossary
of Marxist Terms.”
Mr. Chifley says that these
developments “included the
establishment of a school of ;
Land-Air Warfare and also a
Staff College for the training of
career officers.” He adds:
All R.AA.F. units have their full
complement of aircraft and will carry
out operational and flying training to
the minimum extent possible. Satis-
factory progress is being made with
the local manufacture of aircraft and
engines already provided for in the
Defence programme. In addition,
work is proceeding on the production
of prototypes of certain new types of
aircraft. Proposals for the manufac-
ture in Australia of new types of jet-
propelled fighter and bomber aircraft
are now under consideration.
Regarded in the light of pro-
perly interpreted truth the last
sentence in this symposium is
the most heartening and satis-
factory. For the rest the best
that can be said is that the ghosts
of Hans Andersen and the
Brothers Grimm will turn green
permanently on reading it.
The Rocket Range
“At the naval and air bases at
Manus,” the heady communica-,
tion continues, “construction
work is well advanced and per-
sonnel have been posted to both
services.”
It appears that “considerable
progress has been made in de-
veloping the rocket range and
technical areas at Woomera, and,
concurrently with this work,
buildings, services and amenities
in the village area have gone
forward.”
It appears, however, also that:
A shortage of materials and certain
types of supervisory and skilled labor,
as well as surveyors, has resulted in
some slo wing-up of the planned
building and constructional works.
However, trials as planned are pro-
ceeding in the Interim Missile Range
concurrently with the construction of
the main range.
The work seems to be going
forward nearly as fast as that
on the epoch-making destroyers.
The brightest spot in the
Defence Budget is the an-
nouncement that the pay code
introduced in July, 1947, is now
being implemented, and, whilst
details of the increases have not
yet been worked out, they will be
completed in time for the new
scales to operate from the com-
mencement of the first full-pay
period in October, 1949. An
amount of £1,000,000 has been


Legal Notice.
MACDONALD re JAMES MUIR THOM-
SON, Deceased.—HUGH MACDONALD
married MARY MACDONALD in Nov.,
1829, and had the following children
(inter alia), Margaret, Reginald,
Catherine, John Somerled and Roderick.
Such children or their descendants should
communicate with the undersigned forth-
with, giving full particulars of their re-
lationship to Hugh and Mary Macdonald.
Failing a reply within two months of the
date of this insertion steps will be taken
to distribute the estate of the deceased
amongst persons known to be entitled. —
BOWMAN & CURTIS HAYWARD, 2
Devonshire Terrace, London, W.l, Eng-
land. Cables: Queried, London.
Missing Friends.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts
of CHARLIE LAVERY, age about 4-8
years, late of West Aust., kindly ask him
to communicate with his cousin BILL
COUCH, 175 Doncaster Road, North
Balwyn, E. 9, Victoria. Matter is urgent.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of
SERG COCHUROFF, or his friend,
STEPHEN DUITRIEFF, who arrived in
Australia in 1909-1910 from Tobokk,
Siberia, please communicate with the
former’s sister, Taisa Cochuroff, now MRS.
TAISA TOCKA, Laggan, 4 S, N. S. Wales.
ESTATE OF GEORGE SULLIVAN,
Deceased.
WILL MARY McLAY MILLER, aged
approximately 43 years, last heard of in
Brisbane, daughter of Peter Miller and
Susan Mary Miller (nee Sullivan), or any
person arware of the present address or
able to give any information concerning
Mary McLay Miller please communicate
with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE FOR VIC-
TORIA, 412 Collins Street, Melbourne?
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts
of GEORGE ARTHUR FURNISS, late of
Footscray, in the State of Victoria, but
last heard of in New South Wales, please
communicate with MESSRS. W. H. JONES
& KENNEDY, Solicitors, of 214 Nicholson
Street, Footscray?
IN THE HAND t
RED TIN
m
m
This adhesive
dressing stays com-
fortably where you put
it because it’s elastic and
stretches with your skin. Each
dressing has a soothing, protective
medicated pad, and is flesh-coloured and
inconspicious. Various sizes and shapes of
dressing —all in the one tin! At chemists
\ , everywhere.
55>=*
V*
Sized and shaped jor every need
Elastoplast
TRADE MARK
£6/129 S-T-R-E-T-C-H-E-S WITH THE SKIN
A product ot T. J. Smith A Nephew Ltd.. Hull, England.
FIRST AID
DRESSINGS
V?. :«
m
€
-*er
fat
ANOTHER DEPENDABLE TOP DOG PRODUCT
THE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREE
‘He beats any retriever I ever had.”
included in the estimates on this
account.
The detailed estimates of the
department are illuminating.
Apart from the Administra-
tion, the Joint Intelligence
Bureau and the Defence Signals
Branch (380 employees) there
seem to be marked increases, ex-
cept in the fighting forces.
Five Ships, Five Flag Officers
Even in 1947-48 it was pos-
sible to run the administrative
side of the Defence Department
with a secretary, up to £3500
p.a., plus six assistant-
secretaries costing £6582, but
now it takes a secretary, a first
assistant-secretary, a second
assistant-secretary, six assistant-
secretaries costing £7984 and
various other panjandrums. The
staff has increased by 20 per
cent, in two years. But the Joint
Intelligence Staff is reduced
from 195 to 103, the director’s
salary being increased per
cent, since 1947-48, and the con-
troller above him having disap-
peared—his salary had been in-
creased from £1264 to £1592
last year. The Treasury section
has taken on a few new hands.
The R.A.N. acquired a third
Rear-Admiral and two Commo-
dores—one flag-officer to every
cruiser and light aircraft-carrier.
It has 17 Captains against 10
last year and 52 Commanders
against 23 ; all told, 645 commis-
sioned officers in the executive
and engineer branches. There is
also a Surgeon Rear-Admiral, a
Rear-Admiral, Supply. All
told, including writer and stores
and cookery officers, the com-
missioned ranks of the R.A.N.
total 1257 against 670 last year.
A new force of 308 dockyard
police has appeared out of no-
where.
The total personnel is only
14,188, against 11,786 provided
last year. The R.A.N.’s civilian
branch has grown from 308 to
418 since 1947-48, Navy estab-
lishment totals from 364 to 850,
which is not a true figure, since,
in addition, £20,000 is provided
for “additional staff require-
ments” and £13,000 for “addi-
tional salaries under tentative
classification.”
The Army
The Army Staff Corps figures
are carelessly printed. A wrong
number is given for the total. It
has increased in size from 409 in
1947-48 to 1632 for the coming
year. There are four lieutenant-
generals, seven major-generals,
19 brigadiers, 30 colonels, 136
“half-colonels,” 346 majors, 763
captains and 327 lieutenants.
The Instructional Corps has
not changed from 1262 this
year. But the “total permanent
military forces” presumably
there is that mysterious “brigade
group” somewhere as well —is
given as 6319, an increase from
5173 over last year. There
appears to be one staff officer to
every four of the total “per-
manent” force.
The rank and file who are not
non-commissioned or artificers
and specialists seem to consist of
711 RAA, gunners, drivers and
trumpeters, 157 R.A.E. artificers,
67 drivers, 62 mechanical trans-
port and A.S.C. artificers and 19
privates—all the latter in the
A.S.C. and A.M.C., so that pri-
vates in the “Total Permanent
Force” (described as such) are
as scarce as brigadiers and nearly
twice as scarce as colonels.
There are more captains on the
Staff Corps than there are
gunners, drivers and trumpeters
in the Royal Australian Artillery,
and in the R.A.E. (regiment)
there are two officers and non-
coms. to every artificer.
In the Engineer Services
branch 60 officers and non-coms,
get along with six artificers.
Two Citizen Forces
Over the rest a veil can be
drawn except to say that in a
supposedly growing and healthy
Civilian Volunteer Army—mark
that the Government holds
firmly that the volunteer system
is satisfactory—only £250,901
was paid out to Citizen Forces
and cadets combined last year
against an estimated £408,000,
even though the estimates for the
Permanent Army were exceeded
by £200,000 for increased per-
sonnel and pay. This year
£500,000 has been provided, a
figure quoted obviously to mis-
lead.
It may be added that to run
the “Permanent Army”—6ooo-
- mainly officers, plus a vague
number of regimentals and
citizen soldiery, who are asked
to do their own recruiting—calls
for over 1000 civilian employees,
including a secretary at £2250 a
year, an assistant-secretary (or-
ganising and planning) £1512, an
assistant-secretary (policy and
administration) £1575, an assist-
ant-secretary (rifle clubs) £l2OO,
an administrative officer £1172,
four command secretaries at
£llOO-odd, four branch secre-
taries at £llOO-odd, a Ministerial
liaison officer at £876, a clerk
(war planning) at £lO2O. This is
only in the Secretariat, because
there also now is a “professional,
clerical and general staff” on the
civilian side presided over by
four command secretaries at
£ 1190-odd each, four branch
secretaries at £llOO each, a
Secretary to the Military Board
at £lOBO and a. flock of inspec-
tors, a chief finance officer at
£1596, a deputy c.f.o. at £1470,
three directors of finance at
£l2OO each and two accountants
at £950 each.
In fact, the whole department
represents as fat and scandalous
a misuse of public money as
could be seen this side of South
America. It shows gross in-
competence and neglect of the
public interest.
The R.A.A.F., despite the
audacious misstatements in the
Budget, totals only 5680, includ-
ing 4136 airmen and air
corporals. Its officer establish-
ment generally is all too low,
except, perhaps, in the higher
ranks —there are 50 officers
holding ranks between wing-
commander and Chief of the
Air Staff, but there is nothing
like the general overstaffing
noticeable in the Army. The
Air Department on the civilian
side manages with the supervi-
sion of a secretary, a. first
assistant - secretary, a chief
finance officer and an assistant
finance officer for administra-
tion.


NOW
COUNTRY DWELLERS CAN HAVE
ICE IN ABUNDANCE
63 LARGE ICE CUBES AT EVERY FREEZING
Icemoster Kerosene Refrigeration is completely
independent of electric power yet every freez-
ing can produce all the ice you need, in addition
to reliable, year-round food protection.
KEROSENE REFRIGERATION THAT
GIVES YOU MORE!
BEAUTY, Sleek, mono-steel construction.
Full width doors. Attractive hardware.
STORAGE SPACE. Nearly six cubic feet.
ECONOMY. Large storage capacity
means food can be bought in quantity.
HERE’S
5^
AUSTRALIA’S LATEST AND BEST KEROSENE REFRIGERATOR
• NATIONAL DISTRIBUTORS: 0 Queensland Distributor;
WILLERS & CO. PTY. LTD., 36 Eagle Street, Brisbane, 0 New
South Wales Distributor: BENNETT & WOOD PTY. LTD., cnr.
Pitt & Bathurst Streets, Sydney. 0 Western Australia Distribu-
tors: WESTERN APPLIANCES LIMITED, c/o Messrs. Nicholsons
Ltd., Barrack Street, Perth. WESTERN FARMERS’ CO-OP. LTD.,
569 Wellington Street, Perth. 0 South Australia Distributors:
RADIO WHOLESALERS LIMITED, James Place, Adelaide.
BARRIER ELECTRICAL APPLIANCES LIMITED, Argent Street,
Broken Hill. 0 Victorian Distributor: KELVINATOR AUSTRALIA
LIMITED, Williamstown Road, Fort Melbourne.
APPLIANCES LIMITED, FINSBURY, SOUTH AUSTRALIA — ALI9
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. 0. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies In all Country Centres
ALL-BRITISH
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney __
CUAKD
m
MfitU'Ci'
PROTECTA
TILL
Suitable tor ererj tTP* •? J U “" g Vron(IJ
all Sale*. Credit*. P * 7 °° L nd ' f „, full deuiU
pleasing In appear* nee. Send >or
pleasing p^ Di to ,
TAPKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty.L
JAC SYDNEY BRISBANE
OiMOrutiot dgenir- * Co. P»T «■*
SYDNEY • » C „ Bros . Ply- LU
MELBOURNE . ; No ™ - on 4 Sow W*
8 I OoJt Boo* CO. U..U
SUNDRY SHOWS
"SHIPWRECK.”
In 1629 the Chamber of
Amsterdam’s vessel Batavia,
bound from Holland to the East
Indies under Commodore Pel-
sart, was wrecked on that grave-
yard of ships Houtman’s Abrol-
hos, just off Geraldton on the
Westralian coast. Commodore
Pelsart sailed for Batavia in a
small boat with one party, an-
other party was left under Cor-
poral Webbye Hayes to search for
water, leaving the passengers and
rest of the crew in the care of
the supercargo, Jerome
Cornelius. In a subsequent
“mutiny,” led by Cornelius,
over 100 people, including
passengers and crew, were
murdered and their murderers,
retaining such women as they
wanted for their own amusement,
set up a little kingdom and
swaggered about in the finery
looted from the Batavia’s cargo.
In the meanwhile. Corporal
Hayes had returned to land on
another island from where he
successfully held off the
mutineers until Pelsart returned
to hand out rough and sudden
justice to the ringleaders.
Douglas Stewart’s poetic
drama, given its world premiere
by the Metropolitan Theatre at
St. Laurence Hall, Sydney, con-
cerns itself not so much with
the tragedy of the murdered pas-
sengers and crew, but, like
“Macbeth,” with the tragedy of
the ringleader, the villain, and,
in focusing mainly on the
character, explains at once the
man, the massacre and the play.
Stewart’s Cornelius is superbly
drawn —fully developed and fully
explained- He is not a major
villain:
I was bad myself; not big and
dangerous though:
Would have made a good poacher:
not rob your house,
Not lurk on a dark road, but roam
in your park
With a snare for the soft little hare;
so one asks how could he in-
stigate such a record of blood-
shed and violence? The ex-
planation makes the tragedy.
Cornelius is essentially a
dreamer, with a ready wit and
quick tongue to turn his fancies
into words and arguments, but
without the courage or strength
to go beyond that. Left to him-
self he might have spent most of
his time on the sand in the sun
dreaming—until Pelsart returned
—of setting up his little kingdom,
and of taking Lucretia Van
Mylen for himself. But he is
teamed with such practical cold-
blooded killers as David See-
vanck and Conrad Huyssen,
who readily turn his fancies into
horrible reality so that he
watches, childlike, with mingled
terror and delight, the juggernaut
he has started until it finally
destroys him.
That is no critical theory. The
play develops the character step
by step, gradually revealing its
weaknesses and its tragedy.
Cornelius first appears, swag-
gering, confident and vocal;
later he plays with the gems
from the Batavia’s cargo like a
child with baubles; the idea of
killing more than 100 people
appals him, but the idea of being
king delights him —it takes See-
vanck and Huyssen to drive
him, and then he takes no
part in the killing ; even when he
is in complete command he can-
not turn his dreams of Lucretia to
reality for over 12 days and then,
again, only with the assistance
of his henchman; and finally—
and perhaps most revealingly—-
when Commodore Pelsart dies
during the trial of the mutineers
Cornelius turns to look at tne
body with a mixture of com-
passion, surprise and distaste for
death; “I never meant that. He
was sick. His heart.”
It would be hard to fault
Kevin Brennan’s playing of Cor-
nelius. He gives it the confi-
dent, persuasive voice it needs,
the swagger, the comedy and
pathos of a cheery little villain
who suddenly has major villainy
thrust upon him and cannot
measure up to it; his lovemaking
has a clowning awkwardness
that is not without sincerity, and
his final tortured self-analysis
and cry of despair at what he
sees are so moving that Susan’s
“The poor wretch” seems to be
wrung from her.
Compared with Cornelius,
the role of Lucretia, wife of the
murdered merchant, is uncompli-
cated. She has courage and the
pride and dignity that stem from
familiarity with wealth and
comfort, qualities which she uses
as weapons to defend herself;
after she is beaten she falls into
a kind of near-madness; then,
when she is rescued, returns
naturally to her strength of
character to face the world again
after the nightmare of the
island. Like Brennan, Jean Mc-
Alister has the role half-played
before she starts. Tall, com-
manding and well-featured,
she stands beside Cornelius like
a queen beside a clown; pride,
madness and relief, particularly
in the last line, “Oh, that’s . . .
lovely,” run strongly and plainly
through her performance. Her
only fault is exaggeration of
physical expression; a little too
much staring in wide-eyed loath-
ing and a little too much twist-
ing of the mouth.
The others —Rolf Bartik as
Pelsart, sick, tired, inefficient and
with only the power of authority
to handle a situation that needs
much more strength than that;
Frank Waters as Huyssen and
Owen Weingott as David See-
vanck, both of them cold, savage
and hungry; Gerry Dugan as
Heynorick, the Commodore’s
butler who Imanages to buttle right
through the whole tragedy and
also show a little human emo-
tion ; Betty Lucas as Judith, the
minister’s daughter, at first horri-
fied at being taken for mistress
by Huyssen and then happy at
having a man to love her —are
all splendidly in character. Alfred
Race, as Sebastian, the minister
who fights with and twists and
contorts his conscience to keep
himself and his daughter alive,
looks and acts the part
admirably, except that he could
put more feeling into some
of the emotional passages and
speak some lines of pure poetry
as though he felt them and not
as though he were trying to re-
member them.
The production is beautifully
dressed and set (by Robin Love-
joy) in the interior of a large tent
with the limitless sea and sky
showing through the entrance —•
Martin Long’s music catches and
dwells on this atmosphere of
lonely isolation. And, running
like music through the whole
play, of course, is Stewart’s
poetry, lines that suddenly ex-
press in a moment a whole char-
acter or a lifetime, and lines that
suddenly condense the whole
play into a few clear seconds:
Sebastian : So much bitterness; so
much shame and bickering!
Each for himself on the slippery
deck of the world,
Pitching, scourged by the winds,
through the wastes of space
To nowhere.
Huyssen: With a parson screeching
on the rigging.
Practically the only patch of
shade in Lionel Lindsay’s water-
colors at Sydney Macquarie
Galleries is on the verandah of
“Old Time Cottage,” and it is a
singularly welcome resting-place.
If one were escaping from the
hot light of Orange, N.S.W.,
where all the water Colors were
painted, there would be no com-
plaints: as Hilder and Streeton
showed, there is a fierce poetry
to be made out of the blazing
noon. But “Old Time Cottage”
is one of the few paintings in
which Lionel Lindsay has con-
veyed any feeling of atmosphere
at all, and the escape is from a
general fussy prettiness ... too
much local color in the fore-
grounds, foliage that fails to
sparkle, skies without distance
and luminosity. But generali-
sations are always likely
to be unjust to the individual
paintings; and Lionel Lindsay,
though his reputation will rest
on his etchings and woodcuts,
has several paintings as well as
“Old Time Cottage” “The
Brickworks,” for instance—in
which there is genuine quality.
One painting, which is at once
distinctively Australian and a
fine watercolor by any
standards, is in a class by itself;
“The Dam,” with its sparkling
light, its careful and poetic ob-
servation and its sense of illimit-
able space.
* * * *
Rudolf Schock had plenty of
room to extend his tenor in a
half-empty Melbourne Town
Hall last week, but the audience
made up for what it lacked in
numbers in devotion to a style
of singing which was better
adapted to Brahms and Hugo
Wolf than to Schubert.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of The Bulletin Re-
citer. —4687.
To buy copy of Crime and Punish-
ment by Dostoevsky.—4688.
Information Sought.
How to make calcium arsenate
baits to destroy woodlice, slugs and
snails ?
Mix into a paste, not too wet,
one heaped tablespoonful of calcium
arsenate, one lb. bran, one tablespoon-
ful sugar, and broadcast amongst the
plants. This mixture is poisonous,
and should only be used where
children, domestic animals and birds
cannot get at it. It might be scat-
tered close under cover of plants or
old bags or timber.
* * * *
What are bolas ?
A South American Indian weapon
of war and the chase, consisting of
balls of stone attached to the ends
of a rope of twisted or braided hide
or hemp. Charles Darwin thus de-
scribes them in his Voyage of the
Beagle: “The bolas, or balls, are of
two kinds; the simplest, which is
used chiefly for catching ostriches,
consists of two round stones covered
with leather and united by a thin,
plaited thong about 8ft. long. The
other kind differs only in having
three balls, united by thongs to a
common centre. The Gaucho [native
of Spanish descent] holds the
smallest of the three in his hand and
whirls the other two around his head;
then, taking aim, sends them like
chain-shot revolving through the air.
The balls no sooner strike any object
than, winding around it, they cross
each other and become firmly
hitched.”
* * * *
How to preserve, for a short period,
the juice of boiled vegetables?
Salt alone is considered a sufficient
preservative; acids can be dangerous,
and are not recommended. The
vegetable water should be at boiling-
point, and should be put into con-
tainers which have been well heated
in an oven to give complete sterilisa-
tion, and corks or stoppers should
also be heat-sterilised. A topping of
melted paraffin-wax may be used for
closing containers, which should be
sealed at once. When cool, put away
in a dry, cool place or refrigerator.
Brief Answers.
R.A.J.: (1) No definite informa-
tion other than that Australian tele-
vision will use F.M. for the sound
channel. (2) National programmes,
i.e., 2 FC or 2 BL, ate radiated.
(3) Not necessarily E.M.G.: No
stocks at present in Sydney, but you
can order from Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
C.P.G.: Miss Dorothy Blewett,
418 St. Kilda-road, Melbourne, is
hon. sec. of the Melbourne P.E.N.
Club J.S.S.: Address of the New
Zealand Centre of the P.E.N. is P.O.
Box 965, Wellington (N.Z.)... .M.A.:
Q’land agents for Orlando Wines
are E. Rich and Co., Wharf-street,
Brisbane,.. .B.R.: Write Col. F. D.
Prentice, Secretary, Rugby Football
Union, Twickenham, England
C.E.: Henry Disston and Sons Pty.,
Ltd.,Vine-street, Redfern... .E.G.A.J.:
The English Ford Anglia, 8 h.p., at
£490, inclusive of sales tax 5.L.8.:
Write Tanning Department, Sydney
Technical College, John-street, Water-
loo (N.5.W.).... A.D.G.: Write Mel-
bourne and Metropolitan Board of
Works, 110 Spencer-street, Melbourne.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
T.A.R.: It has the merit of being
the only ballad in existence about
the Amethyst J.G.: Harmless....
V.F.: “In this strange land of ancient
brew.” What do you think Australia
is—a barrel? P.P.: Very sorry
indeed the coal strike deprived you
of bubble-gum W.F.: You seem
to be chasing a good idea, but never
quite catching up....A.L.: It has a
touch of feeling and atmosphere, but
both in technique and theme you
need to start from the ground
L. : “Tell me, as gently as you
can, if it has any merit at all.”
Gently, then, it has not Carpen-
taria : If you know any pearling
stories, tell them; nothing new in
your generalisations... .W.M.: “Des-
tiny” seems doomed to be obscure.
M.T.: Make a par of it....
LeM.: Nearly... .K.A.S.: We poison
pixies 8.J.: Both lightweights....
C.R.: Start it again from the third
line of the fourth stanza W.R.:
Not a bad picture, but flat
M. : Try a woman’s paper....
Joly: Not quite, but it’s j011y....
8.H,: Two lines, then, for the sake
of the atrocious rhyme: —
My mate is crook in hospital, they took
him from the mulga—
I sorrow for the nurses who must care
for one so vulgar.


A happy family life depends not altogether
on how much is in the pay envelope but
rather on how wisely the money is spent.
Money wasted to-day on unnecessary
things deprives the family of the comforts
they should enjoy in the years to come.
It may even deprive the children of a good
education, a real start in life.
The Commonwealth Bank offers you an
easy means of saving any surplus you may
have after paying every day expenses.
Open accounts for yourself and all the
family. Teach your children the value of
money and encourage them to save.
Store up comfort, security and peace of
mind by saving something every week.
Pfay Sa jL daue now.
Office Space Wanted.
N.S.'W. RUGBY UNION desires rent office
space sufficient for three offices and meet-
ing-room. Reply Secretary, 10-12 Spring
Street, Sydney.
FOR
STRENGTH
AND
STAMINA
'*vy'7’*‘ .> r/> f #
»a9S&&iB? r
&w r
Olympic
aif-r/efe
/00%d&sfra//aft , K t CAamp/brtS of /6e jfyacf
A PRODUCT Of THf OLYMPIC TYBE & RUBBER CO, LTD. K|
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Persistent rain towards the end of
the week made for a heavy track on
Saturday, but the weather cleared
beautifully to favor the Red Cross
with a perfect day-for the meeting
held in its aid at Randwick. A rough
preliminary check-up indicated that
the good cause should benefit by at
least £20,000.
In winning their respective races
the four-year-olds Buzmark and
Count Aulone each ran a splendid
Epsom trial, but possibly Count
Aulqne’s was the better performance.
Beating a field of 18 other runners
in the Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap over the Epsom distance
(plus 25yds.), Count Aulone led
nearly all the way under a plaster
of 9.1 to win by two lengths from
Val Bowl, with Silverjax four lengths
further back in third place.
Count Aulone’s run would rate as
a good trial whatever his Epsom
weight. As it is, he has only 21b.
above the 6.7 minimum, and must be
extremely hard to beat. Those who
don’t fancy front-runners at such
distances as a mile should not discard
Count Aulone on that score. At his
previous start he won over 1\ fur-
longs at Canterbury, finishing bril-
liantly after being near the tail-enders
at the half-mile. A chestnut horse
by Brueghel-Aulone, Count Aulone
is a half-brother to Civic Pride, and
has all that filly’s brilliance, plus a
ton more stamina.
The 7-furlongs Tramway Handicap
is usually regarded as a good Epsom
trial, and Buzmark (N. Sellwood)
won Saturday’s version as stylishly as
could be desired. The Midstream
five-year-old Slander attempted to lead
all the way, but Buzmark collared
him at the distance, and ran on
strongly to win by a length and a
half. Chief Mohican finished promis-
ingly to be third, a neck behind
Slander.
With plenty of stamina in his
breeding (by Hall Mark from Buzzirl)
there is nq reason to doubt that
Buzmark will see out the extra fur-
long of the Epsom, and he beat a
better class, though much smaller
field, than did Count Aulone. Prin-
cipally in regard to relative weights did
Count Aulone’s effort impress as a
better Epsom trial than that of Buz-
mark. Carrying Bst., Buzmark was
in receipt of weight from six of his
nine opponents, and he drops only
61b. to 7.8 in the Epsom. Count
Aulone for the Epsom drops 341 b.
from the 9.1 with which he won on
Saturday, and the field he beat was
surely not quite that inferior to the
bunch beaten by Buzmark; Val
Bowl, runner-up, with 8.7, tp Count
Aulone, had won at his previous five
starts.
Only seven accepted in the w.f.a.
Chelmsford Stakes (9f.), and of those
Aqua Regis took no part in the race.
Nonetheless, the Chelmsford pro-
vided easily the best race of the day,
with the honors pretty evenly divided
between the placegetters Columnist,
Achilles and King’s Ransom; they
finished in that order, separated by
margins of a nose and a head. Of
the other runners, Vagabond, who
started a red-hot favorite, but looked
in need of the run, finished a feeble
fourth, four lengths behind the place-
getters; and, always problematical on
a heavy track, Dark Marne came in
next, followed by After Dark. A son
of Dark Felt, After Dark led them
a merry dance for a while, and was
several lengths clear approaching the
turn; he looks one to keep in mind
for Mixed Stakes company.
The Midstream four-year-old Snow-
stream, who has been well in the
market for the Metrop. ever since
weights were issued, gave his sup-
porters some tangible encouragement
by well winning the 10-furlongs
Spring Handicap. Snowstream came
home at a great lick to down Wiranya
by three-parts of a length. Proctor’s
third was a distant one, but promis-
ing. However, the older horses will
know they have been galloping if
they beat the four-year-olds in any
of the major handicaps this spring.
None of the other runners in the
Spring Handicap impressed as
Metrop. prospects, though Grey
Nurse looks as though she is work-
ing up to a win. The well-fancied
Barita broke down, and was destroyed.
Snowstream is yet another of the
top-notch gallopers produced at Kia-
Ora Stud by the mating of Midstream
with Magpie mares; his dam is
Sweet Annabel. A big, bright chest-
nut with white feet and blaze and a
silvery mane and tail, Snowstream
looks really too pretty to be a good
horse, but that he certainly is. He
carried 8.5 on Saturday, and has 8.2
in the Metrop.
* * * *
A bog-like track at Moonee Valley
on Saturday offered little hope for
punters, but most winners were well-
backed, and included three favorites.
An unusual feature of the card was
that four of the six flat races were
run over the mile course; times for
these, ranging from 1.44 i to 1.45^,
gave some notion of the state of the
track.
Named after the late president of
the M.V.R.C., the John F. Feehan
Stakes, standard w.f.a. at a mile, was
run for the first time on Saturday,
and brought together an excellent
field. The Stakes was won by favorite
Ellerslie (W. Williamson) unwinding
a brilliant run in the straight to beat
a very tired Chanak by something
less than a length. The mile journey
seems a shade beyond Chanak;
coming into the straight he was roll-
ing all over the track, and in doing
so collided with Comedy Prince,
Ungar and One Up, as well as, later
on, Ellerslie. Ungar finished third,
followed by the New Zealander Royal
Tan. The imported One Up led
early, but showed no trace of the
form which won him the Liston
Stakes a couple of weeks back.
The Enfield horse Red Fury, who
caused punters much anguish when
he won the last Caulfield Cup at
16 to 1, did the bookies another
“Make him cut out that python hold, ref.!"
good turn by bobbing up, at 25 to 1,
in Saturday’s mile Chandos Handi-
cap. R. Heather rode Red Fury,
and gave him the run of the race.
Always within easy reach of the
leaders, he was in front as they
turned for home, and quite comfort-
ably held off the favorite Viceroy;
the grey Our Land finished third.
Red Fury is now, of course, being
hailed as likely to win his second
Caulfield Cup. Certainly, for a
horse who won last year with 7.13,
he is kindly treated with a rise of
only 31b. However, only one horse
has won two Caulfield Cups in suc-
cessive years, and Red Fury doesn’t
impress as being another Poseidon.
Others who have won two Caulfield
Cups have been Paris (1892 and ’94),
Hymettus (1898 and 1901), Uncle
Sam (1912 and ’l4) and Whittier
(1922 and ’25).
In December, 1947, as a four-year-
old, High Production won his first
race over the 6-furlongs-/ess-20yds.
course at Moonee Valley, carrying
7.9; with repeated wins over the
same course since then, it begins to
look as though the handicapper will
have to shoot him to stop him. In
Saturday’s Windarra Highweight the
aptly-named Industry gelding carried
10.1 as though it were a feather,
and won easing up by three and a
half lengths from Trapani and
Grovetown.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Cinderella Stakes: Lady Pirouette,
1 ; Miss Moya, 2; Chastise, 3. Parra-
matta Mixed: Acquittal, 1; Lady
Bevron, 2; Count Bourbon, 3.
Auburn Mixed: Benvolo, 1; Sir
Falcon, 2; Maranga, 3. Rosehill
Handicap: Persist, 1; Moneith, 2;
Indian Chief, 3. Theo Marks Quality
Handicap: Filipino, 1; Heroic
Sovereign, 2; Denali, 3. Rosehill
Guineas: Field Boy, 1; Achilles, 2;
Kymac, 3. Welter: Bold Archer, 1;
Newborough, 2; Tithonus, 3.
* * * *
One or two animals of pretty
ancient vintage have been dragged
out of retirement to race again in
Sydney of late —notably old Trimmer,
a 14-year-old. However, the palm is
handed to a horse named Two’s Son,
who resumed racing at Whyalla (S.A.)
recently. Two’s Son was “retired”
16 years ago at the age then of
seven; at 24 he’s literally old enough
to vote.
# ♦ ♦ ♦
The performance of Philip Mick-
man in becoming the youngest con-
queror of the English Channel in-
spired N. Y. “Times” to a leading
article of high praise, which read in
part:
“The boy tried the Channel swim
last year, and failed; he tried and
failed again earlier this summer. This
time he was in the frigid water
almost 24 hours, and, although the
Channel is only 19 miles wide, he
swam an estimated 40 miles in his
plucky and victorious effort to buck
wind and rain and ebb tide. His
father, accompanying him in a pilot-
boat, begged him to quit; but Philip
stuck to it. His swim, a minor epic
of individual strength and persever-
ance, in its way reflects the basic
character of the nation from which
this Yorkshire lad has spying. If
Philip Mickman is a good example—
and there is every reason to believe
he is—the difficulties of the past
decade have, if anything, strength-
ened the traditional British qualities
of doggedness and determination.”
The New Zealand cricket tour of
England wound up with the tradi-
tional and always enjoyable picnic
match at Scarborough last Friday;
with 10 minutes to play the visitors
needed 32 runs, and got ’em with two
minutes to spare. The New Zealanders
were only once beaten, when Oxford
caught them on a sticky pitejr, and
that can happen to any team. Of
32 first-class matches played the New
Zealanders won 13, drew 18 and lost
the one; all the Tests were drawn.
Outstanding players of the tour were
B. Sutcliffe and Martin Donnelly,
each bagging their 2000 runs and
being the first New Zealand tourists
to do so.
♦ ♦ * ♦
Squash is not a spectators’ game
for the obvious reason that only a
handful of spectators can watch a
game, but enthusiasts have, at the
moment, the opportunity to see the
world champion in action. Doing a
tour of Australia is the Egyptian
Mahmoud Karim; apart from play-
ing exhibitions pretty well everywhere
that squash courts are available,
Karim will compete in the N.S.W.
Open Championship at Royal Sydney
Golf Club from September 20-23.
* * * *
Well over 70,000 packed into
M.C.G. for the Carlton-North Mel-
bourne semi-final in the V.F.L., and
they got their money’s worth, the
result being in doubt to the finish.
Carlton got there by 15.13 to 14.7
after the lead had chopped and
changed all day; there was seldom
more than a goal the difference. The
game itself was fast, and sometimes
furious, passages of good football
being followed by scrambling and
bad blood, but, taken all round, it
was a grand game, with not a man
of the 36 players a passenger, and
not an individual in the crowd with-
out laryngitis at the end. The
quarter scores indicate the tenseness:
Carlton 3.5-23, 5.9-73, 11.4-9.10,
15.13-14.7. North meets Essendon
next Saturday, the winner to meet
Carlton in the “grand final.”
* * * *
In the Rugby Union first-grade
final at North Sydney Oval, Gordon
treated a crowd of 10,000 to some
of the best football of the season in
comfortably beating Easts 14-6. Gor-
don’s forwards completely bottled up
the opposition, whose score came
from two penalty goals, whereas
Gordon landed three tries. Next
Saturday it’s Gordon v. University
for the grand final, which should
be a cracker; University administered
the only defeat Gordon has suffered
during the season. At other codes in
Sydney on Saturday, St. George beat
Souths, 19-12, for the Rugby League
grand final, and the touring Yugo-
slavs again downed Australia, 3-2, in
the final Soccer Test.
* * * *
Not since Fitzsimmons has an Aus-
tralian boxer held a world title; least-
wise, Fitz was an Australian by
adoption, though born in Cornwall.
Now another Aussie, and a real one,
in Dave Sands, has an excellent
chance of winning the laurels Fitz-
simmons gained nearly 50 years back.
Sands became outstanding con-
tender for this world title when he
won the British Empire middleweight
championship by smashing Dick
Turpin out of action in less than
one round at London’s Harringay
Stadium last week. Sands has made
a wonderful recovery from the
ignominy into which he was forced
by bad matchmaking at the beginning
of his English campaign. For his
first fight he was foolishly stacked
up against a crafty, experienced
American light-heavyweight i n
Tommy Yarosz. Sands was out-
pointed in 10 rounds, and promptly
dismissed by the critics. Fighting his
way up again from scratch, he out-
pointed Frenchman Lucian Caboche,
k.o.’d Welshman Jackie Jones, out-
pointed Dutchman Jan De Bruin and
outpointed Frenchman Robert Ville-
main before getting his crack at the
Empire title. Even on the eve of
the Turpin fight English critics were
declaring that Sands didn’t have a
punch; the experts wouldn’t want
to repeat that remark now in the
hearing of Turpin, who hit the floor
three times in the first round—once
for “eight,” again for “nine,” and
then for the duration.
There are now four obstacles be-
tween Sands and the world title —
Rocky Graziano, Charlie Fusari,
Marcel Cerdan and the title-holder,
Jake Lamotta. Graziano and Fusari
are due to meet in New York to-
night, while Cerdan and Lamotta are
coming to grips on September 28.
Sands will probably have to fight the
winner of Graziano v. Fusari, and
the loser of Cerdan v. Lamotta before
meeting the title-holder.


Grandfather Clock
In “mission finish”
Outstanding both in
appearance and
performance . . .
Write for it now,
it’s only £3B
A mission-finished silky
oak ease houses a
reliable 8-day move-
ment in this English
Enfield grandfather
clock. Weights, chains
and pendulum bob are
brass. Height, 6 ft.
Base, 2 ft. x 1 ft. Twelve
months’ free service
guarantee and
setting-up instruction
folder supplied. Make
use of Proud’s new
deposit purchase plan.
For full particulars
about deposit and
payments. Write to the
Mail Order Manager.
df
sf
Rxrnds
Write, Mail Order Manager,
Frauds Limited, Box 1502, G.P.0., Sydney. BW 2721
'THAT
$
the
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that vour beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will bo
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company $ many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS: . T
Jaynes Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Te l. : BU 5901 Box 543 ' Sydney
BP2-49
£
w
me
r-m
or after the ball, . .
Into the street from the sheltering W ,
Then is the cold catching time for us all.
The moment of danger be sure.
Winter mischances our ha PP iness . ’ rh .
Sore throat, bronchitis and nasa catarrh.
Then for its advent how grateful e*
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure,
For Coughs, Colds re r
Woods 7 Great Peppermint Cure
THE MAN ON THE LAND
DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.
textile exports are to be in-
creased 60 to 80 p.c. in the next
four years.” Where is the wool
to do this? The inference is
that as Bradford top-makers are
not inclined to buy at present
prices, they have most of the
wool they need to increase the
exports to the White Paper tar-
get. It states that “but for
foreign import restrictions on
tops and yarns the exports
would have been much greater.”
As soon as Europe, which has
200,000,000 sheep, has filled
its war-created vacuum it will
slow down on buying Dominion
wool, and, as it is obvious some-
body is sitting on a huge pile,
there will be a slump in prices,
which will probably synchronise
with the establishment of the
new J.O. with the reserves set
at slump prices to stay there till
after the next war.
Queensland Livestock.
“Agric”: The Queensland
statistician has just told us that
at March 31 last the State was
running only 16,498,957 sheep,
and that during the year only
3,278,247 lambs were marked,
against 3,730,189 marked the
previous year. Beef cattle num-
bers declined during the year to
4,568,966, but this decline was
more than offset by an increase
in the number of dairy cattle
depastured. Even with the
1,422,831 head of dairy cattle
and 4,568,966 head of beef
cattle the State is still running
fewer cattle than in 1895
(6,822,401), and is running fewer
sheep than in 1890 (18,007,234).
To show what Queensland
can do it is worth while recalling
that the record for sheep was
25,650,231 at March 31, 1943,
and for cattle (dairy and beef
breeds) 7,047,370 at December
31, 1921. In pigs the record
was 450,391 at March 31, 1944 ;
at March 31 last the State had
407,322.
It is usual, and easy, to blame
droughts for declining livestock
After J.O.—What?
“Ryot” (N.Z.): Is it too much
to ask the average wool-
grower to look at the records of
the Joint Organisation, then to
look at the statements of other
wool authorities? The J.O. tells
us we are lucky to have such a
completely satisfactory organisa-
tion, and that we should perpetu-
ate something similar, with a
preliminary five-year term to
begin with. Hear F. S, Arthur,
manager of U.K. Wool Dis-
posal, Ltd., in June, 1948:
“World consumption of
Dominion wool is about 40
per cent, above production and
45 per cent, above pre-war con-
sumption.” Also, “Dominion
Merino world wool consumption
had been 50 per cent, above
production in the last two
years.”
Then Lund, N.Z. member In-
structional Wool Secretariat, says
in January, 1948; —“The world
is using fifteen to twenty per
cent, more apparel wool than it
produces.” It looks as though
genuine consumption and specu-
lative buying are all one to J.O.
To see that a Royal Commis-
sion is called for entails the
grower swatting up a few figures
from the pessimistic angle.
On the other side, Walter
Ward, president of the British
Wool Federation, in 1948 said:
“Wool consumption in Britain
is almost back to pre-war.”
Also, “In 1920 there was no
J.O. to set a lower level on
prices, and the vacuum in gpods
is now much greater.” The
Board of Trade, in June, 1948,
reported that Britain was using
at the rate of 40,000 bales a
week (equal to 2,000,000 bales
per annum). In 1939-40 they
used 50,000 bales per week. In
July, 1948, the B. of T. said “the
rate of delivery of cloth is
slower, 13 p.c. up on June,
1947. Import restrictions abroad
were hitting the British textile
industry hard.”
In December, 1948, a British
White Paper said that “British
population, but it is obvious
that our closer-settlement, taxa-
tion and farming policies need
an overhaul. In the case for
closer-settlement the big com-
panies and large landholders
have for years been accused, for
party political purposes, of not
making the best use of their
land. The statistician’s figures,
however, indicate that a lot of
land was put to better use nearly
half a century ago than today,
but repeated requests by
graziers’ organisations for the
introduction of wiser land laws
have been ignored. State trans-
port tax and transport regula-
tions hamper the grazing in-
dustry at every turn; yet the
servicemen attending it will be
increased.
With thousands of acres of
suitable land in the Tenterfield
district, N.S.W. farmers could
well play their part in making
the Australian smoker inde-
pendent of imported leaf.
Milk-fever.
“Myrrhee”: A.ttacks usually
occur 12 to 72 hours after calv-
ing, though they’ve been known
to occur before the event or
months afterwards. Depressed
and disinclined to move, the
sufferer, if untreated, usually
“Dunno what the weekly'd do without Bill to get it over
that pinch!"
Timber Inquiry Commission
now sitting in Queensland was
told by Mr. Herbert Watson
(Housing Commission timber-
buyer) that lorries used by the
Commission to cart timber did
not pay the road tax imposed
on private individuals. This
would not be tolerated in an en-
lightened community. Mean-
time, thoughtful people are
alarmed by the falling livestock
numbers and the obvious drop
in carrying-capacity of grazing
lands.
Beef Air-lift.
“Kelms”: Seven Westralian
cattle stations, using Glenroy
station as a headquarters, are
freighting slaughtered cattle to
the Wyndham meatworks. The
cattle are driven to Glenroy
abattoirs, the longest distance
being 90 miles. Carcases are
chilled for seven hours to a
temperature of minus 6° F., at
which they cut down and handle
easier.
The plane load is 28 each of
fore- and hindquarters, with
edible offal carried in aluminium
containers, and weighs 91001 b.
Loading and unloading occupy
25 minutes each, and the trip,
at 7000 ft., takes li hours.
Carcasses weigh 1001 b. to
1201 b. more than they would
after droving to Wyndham and
are in better condition, and cattle
that couldn’t be driven can be
air - freighted. Wild “bush”
cattle, in prime condition, which
couldn’t possibly be overlanded,
are being slaughtered at Glen-
roy. The hides are flown to
Derby.
The scheme was pioneered by
the owners of Mt. House. The
first load was flown tQ Perth
last year—and is proving a suc-
cess. The beef air-lift is here
to stay as far as W.A. is con-
cerned. It should be equally
successful in other States.
W.A. Growing Tobacco.
“He-Ne”: West Australia is
taking seriously the tobacco
shortage caused by lack of dol-
lars, and is trying to increase
local production. Twenty ex-
servicemen are in training at
Manjimup to learn about
tobacco-leaf production. When
the 12-months’ course is oyer
the men will go on to soldier-
settlement farms. If the school
is successful the number of ex-
goes down with paralysis in the
hind-legs. At this stage the head
is turned sharply into the flank,
the eyes are dull and staring and
the muzzle dry.
A 20 per cent, borogluconate
solution (2ioz. of borogluconate
in 12oz. boiled water) injected at
blood-heat will cure most cases.
Boil the syringe and needle,
clip the injection site, swab with
iodine and insert the needle just
under the skin. In stubborn
cases inflate the udder, placing a
piece of medicated gauze be-
tween the teat orifice and the
pump connection. For cows
annually subject to the trouble,
a borogluconate injection, half-
dose just prior to, and half im-
mediately after, calving will
often stave off an attack.
Dipping Cane-setts.
“Beroo” : The prolonged wet
season this year meant that
farmers in the irrigated Burdekin
delta cane area (N.Q.) could not
prepare their land as early as
usual and much cane had to be
planted in late autumn and
winter, when the ground was
cold. The conditions thus were
ideal for the soil-inhabiting,
pineapple-disease fungus which
quickly rots setts when tempera-
tures are low, and it was for-
tunate that the pre-planting dip-
ping of the setts had already be-
come a commercial proposition
(B. 18/8/’4B).
Dipping plants used range
from small wire baskets hold-
ing a bag of setts manhandled
into and out of the fungicidal
solution, to large outfits capable
of lifting a loaded planter-box
containing half a ton; another
type has a very large basket with
a false bottom which allows the
loading of a planter with dipped
setts in the shortest possible time.
The solution is made from one
or other of the available organic
mercurial preparations, and
since the setts must be dipped
after cutting a drop-planter must
be used. The treatment ensures
a good strike when soil tempera-
tures or moistures are low, and
although this insurance against
the expensive replanting would
be worth some extra outlay it
has come as a pleasant surprise
to the farmers to find that the
saving in setts needed and the
increased speed of the planter
mean that dipping actually re-
duces the cost of planting.
A Tree-killer.
“W. Court”: Two trials with
2-4-D acid solution against
bluegum-trees and stumps in
Queensland indicate that the stuff
is much better than arsenic. An
0.5 per cent. 2-4-D acid solu-
tion applied to frilled trees up
to 4in. in diameter and to stumps
up to 2in, knocked out 45 per
cent, of the trees and 75 per cent,
of the stumps. In contrast, a
6.4 p.c. solution of arsenic tri-
oxide killed all trees temporarily,
but suckering followed. And it
only made a clean kill of 40 p.c.
of the stumps. In the second
trial a 1 p.c. solution of 2-4-D
acid was more effective against
trees than small stumps. It killed


"Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NTJ Liquid NTJ-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NTJ-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NTJ-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6. 8 cylinders. 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mall Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
1 enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send roe illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Address.. -» . . ......
B. 14/9/M9
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor* Bristol House*
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HII/LTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 201 b.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
■"Si
BLEMISHES
Spots, roughness
and soreness mar
the beauty of
skin and com-
/ plexlon I UseCuticura
Soap regularly Its
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio—Cu ticura Soap, Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.
529
sf
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest Invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BAERERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in Its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BAKBEEE DISTRIBUTION CO
(Dept. 26k), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
0
as in great
grandfather’s day—
Pastoralists profit from
the complete and efficient
service of A.M.L.&F.
Sale of wool • Stock and produce
Pastoral finance • Station requirements
In c. in England 1863
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
and at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches— N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Charleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents: McPhie Sc Go. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
A.MM
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activity.
Price 1/- from Newsagents, or l/2£ posted from
Bulletin Office, 252 George Street, Sydney.
ittfai/cuJi fame
' m\ y
WJfftSSSSScSW! 4»WS*N*4W4Sa»4«SW
:y/w/.-.AW>WvWW»'.A
••'»»»wks :J2JS3?3
*k*xW
/.v.ywAwvMwJ IvvvWWl’WflWW.w.wy.v
. •.•
###
JOO J||
|S |gHgß g
>OWWxi)W^
A r«--<XX)AOOOO(«^MW.
■
:U
SS 4
SffijS
ii
P;S
<&*v«
5«<S
•: fff
m
< m
00
m
4&!
v*-;
VW:
IS
W«WrfWwXCCo7O.\v.v.v.;.v.;.v*
,fki
<t ||H
, V?*A*VW.>,
f 3
■l^Bli^
mJ
li
m
■ v , IfvJ
$
BSb
& M
l£g|
Si
.
. v ■■
HE CANNOT HARM
your jSfjJIEi
In a room designed for relaxation, colour plays
an important part, so do durability of finish, the
ability to take knocks without chipping, an easy
to keep clean surface is also important, and a
colour fastness to extremes of light is essential.
“DULUX” is the hardest, most durable and
colour fast finish obtainable for all interior
decoration and furniture; it provides all the essen-
tial requirements for durability and maintains its
original colour under all conditions. * DULUX’
is easy to USE, brushes on so evenly, it DRIES
so quickly, such wonderful VALUE, so well
worth using.
For general exterior house painting, use
“DULUX” Paint Type 587 Line.
A delightful sun room. All
furniture and interior surfaces
were finished in "DVLUX
Sf*Sa
(V*
FREE BOOKLETS
These handy booklets outline very
simply the correct way to apply
Dulux” to obtain the full benefit
of its durability and beauty. . . .
For YOUR booklets, send to
British Australian Lead Manu-
facturers Pty. Ltd.. P.O. Box 21,
Concord, N.S.\V.
Products of British Australian
Lead Manufacturers Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide,
Perth.
B^kM
mm
THE SYNTHETIC FINISH
Supersedes Enamels and Varnishes
sf
COLOUR MAGIC FOLLOWS THE n DULUX" BRUSH
fruwi w'n» A*»m
DXI
95 p.c. of the trees and 78 p.c.
of the stumps.
Other experiments are under
way, and the investigators em-
phasise that much must still be
learned before 2-4-D acid can
be regarded as a reliable tree-
killer. It is, however, interest-
ing to note that about a fluid
ounce of solution was all that
was required to kill most trees in
the two tests.
Parsley.
“N.E.S.”; Easy to grow and
relatively free of disease, parsley
presents a shade of green that is
a delight to the eye, and freshly-
picked it is an excellent source
of iron in a form readily assimi-
lated by the body.
Rich in vitamins, particularly
vitamin C, an infusion made by
pouring half a pint of boiling
water on an ounce of fresh leaves
is said to provide as much of
this anti-scorbutic vitamin as the
juice of a fair-sized orange.
Parsley in moderation has a
beneficial effect upon the eyes
and nervous system in general.
It is worth space in everyone’s
kitchen garden.
“Copley”; It does well in a
sheltered position out from
Quorn (S.A.). When the bed
was first started it became appa-
rent that in a dry, hot climate
the plants would not thrive in
the open. They were trans-
planted successfully, after a
heavy soaking, to an old bath-
tub in a brush-enclosed garden.
During the intense heat they are
sheltered with dry bushes. Two
tubs are necessary—one of new
plants and one of old is a good
idea —if the plants are to be cut
constantly.
Cold meat in parsley sauce is
an attractive way of serving meat
to youngsters. Parsley can be
used, too, in milk soups, and it
combines well with potato as
well as with the usual egg dishes.
This herb is especially valuable
where greens are a luxury and
the vitamins and mineral content
are necessary to the diet.
The Kero. Refrigerator.
“Law”: Despite the opinion
of kerosene-refrigerator owners
in the country the standard of
lighting-kerosene from most oil
companies is much better than
the pre-war quality. A new
problem has arisen from this.
All kero. frig, lamps are de-
signed to smoke before the unit’s
maximum heat•- absorbing
capacity is reached. If this
maximum capacity is passed the
unit will freeze only intermit-
tently. With the better-quality
kerosene, overheating without
smoking can occur. Then the
housewife turns the flame still
higher, reaches smoking-point
and the frig, still will not freeze.
The old familiar troubles —
dirty wick, too short wick, water
in kerosene, draughts or a shaky
floor—are not cured by this im-
provement in kero, quality.
Always see, too, that the globe
top makes an airtight seal with
the base of the flue.
Hints for the Farm.
“Big Billy”: September is the
month for planting citrus-trees.
Dig a hole wide enough to en-
able the roots to be well spread
and deep enough so that the
tree can be set on the ground no
deeper than when it was growing
in the nursery. After planting
cut back top growth and remove
shoots, particularly vertical
growths which are likely to de-
velop into badly-placed limbs.
“W. Court”; Warming days
in North Queensland favor set-
ting out pineapple slips or
suckers. They are drought-
resistant, and will live until a
rainstorm gives them a start.
The patch should get the sun
and be well drained, the soil
rich in humus. Choose good
suckers or slips from normal
plants —no freaks and set
firmly in the soil.
“Bongo”: No farm workshop
should be without a wood-rasp
of medium coarseness. For fit-
ting handles in axes it is faster
and quicker than an edged tool,
is cheap and lasts for years.
“Sundowner”: To avoid the
thinning all too common in
separating milk watch these
points: Driving belt of separator
may be too slack or slipping or
by an unsatisfactory drive caus-
ing irregular speed; separator
being driven at too slow a speed,
thus giving insufficient centri-
fugal force; feeding milk from
vat at a capacity greater than
can be handled efficiently by the
separator; lack of resistance
caused by worn discs and parts ;
improper setting of the separator
bowl or milk vat.
“C.A.A.”; Best routine spray
for all stone fruits at the pink-
bud stage is Bordeaux mixture
6:6:40 (61b, of copper sulphate,
61b. of slaked lime in 40gal. of
water). This will help to control
brown rot and scab in apricots,
prune rust in plums and curly
leaf in peaches.
“Rooster”: To ensure con-
tinuous supplies of lettuce start
on the seedlings in Aug.-Sept.
At the same time sow seeds of
New York or Imperial 615.
These will mature shortly after
the seedlings, provided they are
adequately thinned out. Keep
the thinnings for transplanting in
late October. Then sow Iceberg
or Imperials at about three-
weekly intervals up to the end
of November. From Nov. to
Feb. sow the open-hearting
varieties, such as Continuity or
Buttercup. Individual plants can
be forced by weekly waterings
with a Weak nitrate of soda solu-
tion (about ioz. to Igal.).
“Cloudy”: Two excellent
trees for the lawn are the silver-
birch and the red-flowering
apple. Neither will kill the grass
nor rob the soil extensively. The
ornamental apple has bronze-
colored leaves which change
color in autumn ; its flowers are
wine-red and form in large
clusters, while the small red
fruit are nearly as pretty. The
apples may be eaten, but might
be enjoyed more in jams and
jellies. Both types need to be
well-watered during hot weather.
“N.E.S.”: Freed of ink, a
discarded steel pen-nib makes a
handy gadget for applying drops
of thin oil to small bearings,
hinges, etc., in difficult positions.
Shape and size of nib allow it to
hold enough oil for many small
lubricating jobs,


ms
m AHf
“Co-operation like this
makes things happen fast!”
Sm\ h
C:"
WS*» \
I'd be lost without the services of my local
8.0.A.C. Appointed Agent. He’s the chap—
multiplied 3,500 times throughout the world —
who saves me hours of preliminary planning.
Yes, my Agent makes things happen in a hurry.
And he knows the answers to all my riddles
about currency restrictions, baggage allowances,
visas and regulations. I give him my itinerary and leave the details
to him. He handles everything without fuss or confusion. All I
do is pack a bag and leave on schedule.
This same Speedbird efficiency—this same concern for your com-
fort and pleasure—applies wherever you may fly along 150,000
miles of 8.0.A.C. routes to forty-two countries on five continents.
The flight itself is swift and sure —comfortable, too. You enjoy
complimentary meals, and there are no
extras for the countless attentions and
courtesies that make your journey so much
more enjoyable. It’s all part of 8.0.A.C.’s
30-year-old tradition of Speedbird service
and experience.
iV
s
GREAT BRITAIN • U3A • BERMUDA • CANADA • MIDDLE EAST
WEST AFRICA • EAST AFRICA • SOUTH AFRICA • PAKISTAN • INDIA
CEYLON • AUSTRALIA • NEW ZEALAND • FAR EAST • JAPAN
8.0.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
FLY" B
AIO/AU
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin (General Agents in
Australia) or from Booking Agents in all cities.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
IN ASSOCIATION WITH Q.E.A., S.A.A., T.E.A.L.
Tooth's
SHEAF STOUT
9
Ut
9
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
SMOKW-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
foe wise men
“Mr. Chifley says that the Aus-
tralian national whaling industry will
reap a great profit.”
Thar he blows!
•I*
“Decide here and now to give your
face the newest look possible.”
— Woman’s paper.
But don’t wear it too long,
* * *
Gipsy’s Warning*
When wolves are stalking —
Keep walking.
You may wear shoe-leather,
But you won’t wonder whether.
Unicorn.
4* +
“You can tell a woman’s character
by her stockings.”— Hollywood blurb.
It is noticeable how many fail
to keep straight.
4* 4* 4*
Frigid.
It was 2 a.m., and whoopee
and grog were on at the Dead.
Duck, Flashing limbs of
cabaret-girls cut the smoky air
like knives as they bounced
briskly to the band’s boogie beat.
Customers ogled, and grog
gurgled over parched tonsils like
water down a drain. Joy was un-
refined.
But what of the handsome
stranger sitting at his table in the
corner? What manner of man
was this who shivered with cold
when surrounded by so many
hot numbers? He called for
rum, and as he gulped it down
his thoughts turned to his des-
cent from the highest peak in
the Alps and the freezing cold
at 40,000 feet above sea-level.
Brrr-h! Even at 30,000 and
20,000 feet above sea-level it was
bad enough. He took another
swig, but remained cold.
A passing girl, warm with pul-
sating personality, slid on to his
knee. Goodness! How little she
had on! But what a good idea —
perhaps she could warm him.
Already he could feel the icicles
melting from his moustache.
Then suddenly he rose to his
feet, frozen, shivering, staring
in horror.
Her dress was above see-level!
Jonas Dill.
4* 4* •5*
“Ninety per cent, of spinsters who
seek husbands through matrimonial
columns ruin their chances by the
wording of their ads.” — “New Idea.”
They put too much of them-
selves into them.
❖ 4* 4*
“Women should be able to deduct
‘facial repair costs’ from their income-
tax.^” — Woman’s paper.
Under the heading of deprecia-
tion?
“Every woman can achieve perfect
grace of line.” — Woman’s paper.
Provided she can pull herself
together sufficiently.
“A woman is first and foremost a
woman.” — Woman’s paper.
And hindmost, also,
•J* *J* . . •h.
A successful politician is a figure
of speech.”— Sydney “Sun."
Mostly hyperbole.
4*
“More than half of Australia’s five
million adults wear glasses, accord-
ing to a Gallup poll.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun."
And a lot of the remainder
look into them.
Misrepresentation.
“Man has been led by the nose
since the day of Cleopatra.”
— Woman’s paper.
This is absurd. Would you agree
To such exaggerated pleading ?
Man's always been supreme and
free
And loath to follow woman’s
leading.
Her would-be domination he
Has always worsted, foiled, or
parried
With noble masculinity
And force —that is, unfil he
married.
P.O.M.C.
Noises Off.
My wife’s away and I’m alone.
{How vastly hushed a house
can be !)
Dust’s settling thick upon the
phone;
Nobody dreams of ringing
ME.
The mantle-clock has ceased to
chime,
The whistling-kettle’s up the
flue.
And now I’m knowing peace
sublime—
The radio is silent, too !
PERCIVAL.
A Matter of Advice.
“One of the most popular pastimes
to whjch mankind is addicted is the
giving of advice, yet it is the source
of the greatest unpopularity.”
—Radio speaker.
I was not made completely
aware of the full import of this
adage till I was left to batch for
a week.
Now, I have long held the
“Sad case —mother was frightened by a bat !”
theory that women, though they
may be sartorially daring, are,
in the culinary sphere, too un-
imaginative. Too often they go
along, year after year, cooking
the same things in the same
way, unaware of the joys of ex-
perimenting. Man’s gastric juices
weary of the sameness of vic-
tuals. Too often, also, his sug-
gestion for something away
from the maddening monotony
of mutton and mince, the cease-
less servitude to silverside and
sausages, i§ received with that
air of bantering indulgence
which women reserve for the
husband in the kitchen.
It was, therefore, with eager
anticipation rather than with
dread that I approached the
preparation of my first three-
course meal.
Women, patently, waste too
much gas by cooking so many
things separately. Is there any
earthly reason why even unre-
lated foods should not be put in
together? Now, I proposed a
meal of soup, meat, vegetables
and rice custard. Why should
cabbage water affect the flavor
of soup? The odor of it, I rea-
son, can be killed by dropping
in; some nutmeg with it, and
this, in turn, is, of course, as
essential to a rice pudding as a
buff-colored form is to a bureau-
crat. And wouldn’t cabbage
confer on rice a tang which that
grain can do with to give it a
full zest?
Into my pressure - cooker,
therefore, I put half an ox-
kidney I found in the frig., a
black pudding, some veal steak
and Devon sausage, half a cab-
bage, some nutmeg, potatoes and
a couple of pounds of rice the
wife had got from somewhere
and some bread—why wait, I
reasoned, for the soup to be
served and then dunk the bread
in it when one could do it be-
forehand and all in the one
operation? It is a pity women
don’t possess the same tidy
minds, the same regard for
economy and method. Instead
of drowning the contents, as
women do, in a cup or so of
water I limited the moisture to
a tablespoonful, arguing that,
as the human body itself con-
sists of about 90 p.c. of water,
so therefore must such other
animal and vegetable material as
black-puddings, rice, cabbage,
nutmeg, etc., and this they would
yield under heat.
Five minutes after putting the
gas under it the jiggler blew off
a fine spray of soup all over the
kitchen wall and floor. Shoi !y
after; this stopped a rumbling
sort of noise came from the
cooker, the jiggler stopped work-
ing, and suddenly there was a
“ping!” as the leaden safety-
valve went through the ceiling.
Seemingly all was not quite
as it should be. I had some
trouble prising the lid off. When
it did yield a heap of rice
spilled over. Still, it was prob-
ably cooked well enough.
There was no need for dis-
couragement merely because
there was so much rice—
wouldn’t it save me cooking any
more for a whole week? The
soup possibly would be a little
thick, but is there anything
worse, anyway, than a watery,
debilitated consomme?
Sorting the rice from the cab-
bage, the kidney and the broken-
up potatoes was admittedly a
rather messy and tedious job,
but eventually I got a piedish-
ful for the baked rice custard,
which is my favorite fruit, bever-
age, comestible and scent.
Liberally sprinkling the boiled
rice with custard-powder and
sugar I stirred the lot up and
put it in the oven, turned the
thermostat to “v. hot” and sat
doing a crossword puzzle while
it cooked.
Some time later there came a
knock, the door was pushed
open and a figure in a dressing-
gown rushed in. I vaguely
recognised him as a new arrival
in the flat above, a foreigner.
Immediately he started yap-
ping excitedly with his hands,
pointing first to the oven and
then to his nose.
“Ze vitail, she burn, m’s’r!”
he shrieked.
I held up a hand. “Calm
yourself, Marcel,” I sa id
placidly. “Everything’s under
control.”
But that didn’t stop him. He
dashed in, opened the oven-
door, then fell back, choking.
After I had blown the pud-
ding out and put it under the
tap he moved his arms again in
wild speech. Then he came over
and inspected the pudding.
“M’sT,” he squeaked, spread-
ing his hands, “you ’ave put no
milk weeth eet. Pah! Zat is
not ze way. I show you, n’est-
ce pas ?”
I looked at him hard. “You
blasted reffos are out here about
five minutes and you think you
cap teach a man how to cook
his own national dishes!” I
barked. “Stick to messing up
your fricasseed snails and your
wurtblurst, your bortz and
your sauerkraut. I know what
I’m doing. I like to put my
milk in my rice custard after it’s
browned, see? Now run along
and finish cutting out your
bodice or put a few more goreds
in the skirt, Marcel.”
It was about a week later that
the wife and I were dining at the
Waldorf-Ritz. A fat party at
the next table insisted on send-
ing for the chef to congratulate
him. As the white-clad figure
emerged the wife grabbed me
excitedly.
“Look! ” she said. “It’s the
man in the flat above us.
Fancy ! I never knew he was a
chef.”
Yes, it was Marcel.
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Another Strike?
“No Sirrah” (B. 17/8/’49) can’t be
serious when he compares reluctant cattle-
raisers with striking miners.
The breeders who refuse to increase
their herds or dump them on a glutted
market are acting under sound economic
reasons. Even our Socialist rulers have
paid farmers to let their land lie fallow,
and have prohibited the harvesting or
sale of vast quantities of perfectly good
fruit and vegetables when the economic
situation seemed to justify such waste.
The miners have deliberately starved
the market for years in order to obtain
their own selfish ends, although they are
well-paid for normal output, with double
and triple rates for extra effort. They
have no responsibilities beyond their
immediate task and are not affected by
lean years or market conditions.
The cattlemen must invest their money,
plan for the future, bear the brunt of
their own mistakes or misfortunes, com-
pete against keen opposition, fight fires,
floods, pests and diseases, and finally
submit their offerings to the law of supply
and demand.
The miners often strike, not for any
logical reason, but at the behest of leaders
who overtly or covertly restrict out-
put in order to bring industry to a stand-
still. The last stoppage amounted to an
act of civil war, necessitating the inter-
vention of the Army and Navy.
To accuse the breeders of “cutting their
own throats” is to libel men who have
never shown suicidal tendencies. On the
other hand the miners have seriously
injured not only themselves but the entire
community to which they belong.—
Referee (S.A.).
A Tax Hint
Medical expenses are not rebatable for
social-services tax, and while the rebate
system continues those on the lower in-
comes have nothing to gain by preserving
doctors’, chemists’ and lodge receipts for
this purpose.
Chifley, however, may not be head of
the Treasury 12 months hence, and as
Fadden has never been keen on the rebate
system and has threatened to wipe it out,
it may pay long-suffering taxpayers to
hang on to their medical vouchers in the
hope that such expenditure will again be
allowed as a straightout deduction from
income.—F. D. (N.S.W.).
Local-government Cost
Surely “W.W.” can’t believe that, be-
cause the Sydney Council was found
wanting (B. 20/7/’49), all others are
guilty of maladministration?
Non-profitmaking concerns are not
generally as efficient as commercial enter-
prises, but most municipal officers do a
good job, and their intimate knowledge
of local problems results in a speedier and
more practical solution than would
handling by a remote centralised
authority, as has been proved in N. S.
Wales under the amalgamation of muni-
cipalities.
Among the generalisations with which
he condemns it, “W.W.” fails to list the
Achilles’ heel of municipal government;
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others per line.
high administration costs. These usually
run out at about 15 p.c. of annual ex-
penditure and are the target of every
right-minded citizen who stands for
council. Once in office, however, he is
powerless to honor his promise of ruth-
less pruning—a municipal award fixes the
salaries to be paid and the rigid observ-
ance of formal procedure required by
the Local Government Act makes it im-
possible to reduce staff numbers. Pre-
paration of rate assessments alone
(“W.W.’s” own City of Camberwell has
perfected the mechanisation of this de-
partment and is one of the two “show”
municipalities in Victoria) calls for con-
tinuous, detailed work by many clerks.
The inevitable publicity attaching to an
error on the part of a municipal officer
enables a ratepayer—who enjoys the right
of criticism and condemnation in return
for rates —to cry “maladministration,” yet
it is this publicity which acts as his
strongest safeguard. A typical example
is found in the issue of any “certificate
'of rates and other moneys” on a par-
ticular property. This certificate, which
is legally binding on the council and
where street construction is concerned
may involve large sums, is obtainable by
any member of the public for one shilling.
Woe betide the officer who omits or errs
in its preparation, for the Council —which
has no right to recover amounts other
than those set out therein —must write
off the debt. That means an airing in
council and the local Press.
While “W.W.” ignores figures in his
claim of “lavish spending,” his charge of
less work for more money is certainly
correct, for councils —like everyone else
—are hamstrung by soaring wages and the
40-hour week .——Carlyle (Vic.).
Costs in U.S.A.
Socialists and Communists, using
everything they can against American
capitalism, point to high costs over there
as proof of a lower standard of living.
I have just received a full-page news-
paper ad. of a chain of grocery stores in
New York City and the surrounding
country. It is dated May of this year—
spring in America, when seasonal things
like green vegetables are generally dear.
I went over the ad. with a grocer, the
manager of a restaurant and a man in-
terested in vegetarian foods, all in Perth.
The unanimous verdict was that the cost
of food, for a person of average habits,
was about the same in Perth and New
York —and Perth has the lowest prices
in Australia and New York the highest
in America.
The average item of food eaten in
New York has to be carried hundreds of
miles, and it is remarkable that peas
grown in California and shipped 3000
miles to New York are cheaper there
than peas grown in the outskirts of Perth
are here. Beef is higher in America, but
pork, poultry and fish are cheaper, as
well as most kinds of tinned goods.—-
H. M. (W.A.).
Inflation Cure
“P.0.M.C.” (B. 10/8/’49) is correct —
“production alone increases national in-
come” —but he offers no suggestions on
stepping-up production.
The day of the craftsman who was
interested in his job of work and who
took pride in producing a good article
is ■ practically finished. Mass-production
is here to stay, and it is an unpalatable
fact that this kind of manufacture has
destroyed the average worker’s incentive
to do a good day’s work. Instead of
being able to take an interest in skilled
craftsmanship he is given tedious repe-
tition work, and his one thought is to
get away as soon as possible.
How can we introduce a new interest?
It is no good appealing to the worker’s
responsibilities—his loyalties are sec-
tional. So we must appeal to his own
interests. Whether this can be achieved
through bonus payments, piecework or
the issue of shares to employees depends
largely upon the type of industry. In
those few concerns where employees
have been issued with shares in the com-
pany both management and workers are
receiving dividends.
The management reaps the benefits of
greater production, better quality and
contented workmen. The employee, as
well as gaining financially, feels more
secure because he has a stake in the
business.
Eventually both employers and unions
must face up to some scheme of profit-
sharing, and the sooner this is done the
sooner will we be able to buy what we
want,-when we want it and at a reason-
able price.— Douglas (S.A.).
Blair Athol
Queensland Premier Hanlon has said
that if the capitalist companies won’t
work Blair Athol coal the Government
will. He added that it reflected little
credit on previous “Tory” Governments
in Queensland that the field had not been
developed.
Blair Athol coal was discovered in
1861 ; its depth and value were proved in
1865. But at Newcastle coal was on the
seaboard, and, as miners worked for a
living, there was no prospect of opening
fresh fields at a price to compete with
Newcastle. Even up to the time Labor
came into power in Queensland the
population was so small that no local
demand could be exploited.
Labor came into office during 1915.
With one small break of no importance,
it has held power ever since. What has
it.done to develop Blair Athol? —X. X.
(Q-).
Secret Ballot
It isn’t sufficient for authority to be
empowered to order a secret ballot after
an industrial upheaval has paralysed the
community—at that stage it would prob-
ably arouse enough antagonism to defeat
its purpose. The ballot should be part
of our industrial machinery—a condition
to be observed before any body of men
can strike. It may be objected that, if
the majority favored a strike, it would
then enjoy legal status; but all strikes
seem to enjoy that under the present
system, no matter how small the minority
that calls them.—G. A. B. (N.S.W.).
New Guinea Capital
“Ex-R.S.M.” (B. 10/8/’49) has ruled
out Moresby, Lae, “Finsch” and Madang
as possible New Guinea capital, having
previously withered Rabaul as only old
Vulcan himself could have done. Giving
no consideration to any other area
throughout the territory, he states that
it could best b'e administered from “the
Bay” because of that town’s geographic
position. It is near a main shipping
route, the harbor is good, water is handy
for hydroelectric projects. All true, but
other spots have the same things without
Milne Bay’s many disadvantages.
Land transport as we know it in Aus-
tralia being almost out of the question
in New Guinea, except in certain localised
areas, “Ex-R.S.M.” is right when he says
that “trade of these territories must of
necessity be sea-borne.” The capital and
main seaport should, 1 agree, be near the
shipping routes. Why not, therefore,
build the future centre on one of the
smaller islands to the north of the Milne
Bay-East Cape area, several of which have
natural harbors and deep-water channels?
The coast of Normanby Island in the
D’Entrecasteaux Group, for instance, is
pitted with sheltering places, many of
them potential harbors, while behind the
coast is eveiy facility for the hill stations
beloved of the British and Dutch
colonists.
From a defence angle, all the islands
mentioned are part of Papua, an Aus-
tralian territory. The vacillations of
U.N.O. could carry no weight against
Australian policy in that area. —
Karrimba (S.A.).
Sentimentally, I agree with “Ex-R.5.M.,”
but, though Milne Bay has much to
recommend it, the place is in a humid,
malarious and undefendable area. Also,
during the s.-e. trade-wind season the
area around “the Bay” is flooded ahd the
flying ceiling is usually at sea-level —
dangerous for flying even with radar leads,
since high mountains encircle it.
On the other hand, Port Moresby has
provision for an all-weather ’drome long
enough to take any plane, only a few
feet above sea-level and well away from
even low hills. The climate is dry
and malaria controllable at very
reasonable cost, while the plateau some
20 miles inland could provide the fresh
air so necessary to harassed civil servants.
The harbor, better than “the Bay,” can
provide swimming, fishing, boating and
the great tourist attraction, canoe-
racing.—Major-PX (W.A.).
Rates
Despite high prices being realised for
house property, municipalities do not
appear to have done much in the way of
revaluing for rating purposes. Most of
them are battling against the ever-rising
cost of all civic services, and in some
Victorian country towns council finances
are drifting to near-insolvency.
Overdrafts for councils are limited by
the Local Government Act to a percentage
of the annual rateable value of property
within the municipality. In at least one
large country town, maintenance men
have been put off, and as a result foot-
paths, roads, etc., are steadily deteriorat-
ing. This in face of a huge increase in
the worth of real estate while the
council’s valuations remain at what they
were when the last valuation was made
years ago.
Five-roomed brick houses selling every
day at about £3OOO are still valued for
rating at less than half that figure. The
position is absurd when applied to the
unimproved basis of valuation, but in
those municipalities where rating is on
the improved value it is farcical. That is
disclosed every time a sale is made and
the buyer and seller come to adjust for
rates.
Councils may take the view that pre-
sent conditions aren’t likely to last, but
costs continue to rise and everything in-
dicates that current values will stand for
years.— Nugget (Vic.).
Milk
“Melaleuca,” in writing of milk (B.
24/8/ ’49), does not mention that typhoid-
and scarlet-fever can be transmitted by it;
and he flatters the city milk supply by
suggesting the presence of vitamin A.
Milk’s value as a food wanes after
three months of an infant’s life; cut-
ting it out at that stage is not detrimental
to a healthy child, provided that other
foods, given in small quantities at the
outset and gradually increased in amount,
are substituted.
Children reared with milk as their
staple diet are not always the healthiest.
—C. Sandy (N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 34
Across.
I—Where1 —Where birds come out of mil-
linery, darlings. (10)
s—Fruit is returned by Zola. (4)
B—Gumbo soup signifies approval
to the artist. (4)
10 —Dread at that woman on the
windward side. (8)
12 — Battle before America’s divorce
capital loses nothing in a place
of great multiplication in a
N.S.W. town. (6)
13 — They never stop talking dully
about lubrication. (3-5)
14— That is in furs, meaning, ol
course, the Eumenides. (6)
16— An infamous fellow joins the
French and a cub reporter. (5)
17 — Hoax the fish that is running
sluggishly. (9)
18 — Belonging to the Mediterranean
sunrise, which even Latin indi-
cates. (9)
21 —Call upon six to pose for por-
traits. (5)
23 — Pay no attention to the back-
t ward American soldier on the
sandbank at the mouth of the
Thames. (6)
24 — The innings of a drunken bats-
man beats two kings and their
spouses. (4, 4)
25 — Deposited eggs in the beginning.
(6)
28 —Interim recorded at Greenwich
signifies two forms of the first
person. (§)
/(CRYPTIC type.)
{Solution in next issue.)
29 — This part of Venice requires mil-
linery on nothing. (4)
30— Close. (4)
31 — Magic and spells of the wag who
takes the dears. (10)
Down
1— Impact described by the school
principal when he has a pair of
Scotch boys and is swallowed by
a lion in a road smash. (4-2, 9)
2 Coppers with a high soprano
voice enlarged threefold. (7)
3 At such high speed the sole sur-
roundings are torrid. (7)
4 Pig to take the first step to ensure
a crop. (3)
5 Make a mistake. (3)
6 Swallow one drink. (7)
7 Vision to yearn and to make a
great heaving of the breath on
Edward’s state. (15)
9 —The maple-leaf is his emblem. (6)
11 —Choose the Rhode Island century
type of power. (8)
15 —Insecure change in a lucrative
job. (8)
19— Conveyance indisposed on a
flavoring essence. (7)
20 — North-eastern Federal electorate
held by a sea-nymph. (6)
21 — Hanging drapery is opposed to a
weapon. (7)
22 — His wail in an unfamiliar tongue.
(7)
26 — Tune from which we derive our
oxygen, (3)
27 — Native vessel of the east will do
the west (variant). (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 33.


The Cost
of Living
MUST Be Reduced
0 Socialist government is costly government costly to the tax-
payer, and to the wage-earner.
Socialist government slows up production and so keeps essential
goods in short supply and at exorbitant prices.
9 Socialist government stifles individual enterprise, discourages
incentive payments, deprives workers and their families of their
rightful share in the rewards of industry.
9 Socialist government appeases extremists, allows them to dom-
inate the unions and so contributes to strikes and stoppages
which help to increase prices.
\ •
THE ÜBERAL PARTY
WILL REDUCE LIVING COSTS AND INCREASE REAL WAGES BY
• encouraging and rewarding increased production.
• outlawing the Communists.
• introducing the secret ballot for union elections and
decisions.
L 50-49
Authorised by D. M. Cleland, 30 Ash St„ Sydney.
