

CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
è
E OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” VoL 70—No. 360
Wednesday, March 9, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
HAWORTH VICARAGE, HOME OF THE BRONTE FAMILY.
TJAWORTH VICARAGE, famous as the home of the Bronte
11 family, is situated near Keighley on the edge of the Yorkshire
moors; the wild, lonely moors which had such a deep influence
on the writings of the three gifted sisters, ChaHotte, Emily and
Anne. Of the three, Charlotte was undoubtedly the most brilliant,
and her work gained her a place among the leading novelists of
her day (1816-1855).
Their father, the Rev. Patrick Bronte, was an Irishman ; their
mother, Maria Bramwell, was a native of Cornwall. The two eldest
children, Maria and Elizabeth, were born at Hartshead in York-
shire ; the others, Charlotte (1816), Patrick Bramwell (1817), Emily
(1818) and Anne (1820) at Thornton near Bradford. In 1821 the
family moved to the village of Haworth, of which the Rev. Bronte
became the Vicar. He was of an austere disposition, which became
more intensified by the death of his wife in 1821, Henceforward
he spent most of his time in his own room, and allowed the man-
agement of the household to be taken over by the eldest child, who
was then only eight years old.
Charlotte stayed in Haworth until 1831, and then went to a
school at Roehead, where she later became a teacher and where
she spent some of the happiest years of her life. Reference to this
period in her life is mentioned in “Jane Eyre,” her first novel,
published in 1847, which had an instant success. Two years later,
when she was the only surviving member of the family, her second
book, “Shirley,” was published, to be followed by “Villette” in 1853.
In 1854 Charlotte married Mr. Nicholls, the curate at Haworth ; she
seems to have spent the last year of her life very happily, and died
on March 31, 1855.
The real spirit of the wild and melancholy moor at Haworth
has never been better expressed than in Emily Bronte’s “Wuthering
Heights,” which fascinates by its strange wildness of treatment.
Haworth Vicarage now serves as the Bronte Museum, and
contains Bronte Manuscripts and relics, including the Bonnell collec-
tion from the U.S.A.


é
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Pleasg send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit } as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name .■
My Address
S.B. 149 ..
AGE
CATALOGUES ISSUED.
BECK BOOK CO. LTD.,
New and Secondhand Booksellers
19 Pulteney Street, Adelaide, S.A.
The Red Page
MONSIEUR HURRICANE.
The publishers suggest as one of the
reasons for reading Antonina Vallentin’s
Mirabeau (Hamlsh Hamilton) that the
Frenchman whom she calls in her subtitle
“the voice of the Revolution” and whom
his father called “Monsieur Hurricane”
distrusted Germany and was “the first
man to realise the importance of an
Anglo-French alliance.”
Mirabeau did spend some time, at one
of the frequent intervals when he had
made France too hot for him, in the com-
pany of Prince Henry in Prussia and at
the court of Frederick 11, which led him
to decide that Germany was the country
of the “machine men” and which gave
him the material for a book of public
and private gossip which made a first-
class scandal when he later published it
in Paris. And he did, though he found
the English frigidity towards foreigners
disconcerting and the rejection of his
impetuous wooing of his host’s sister at
Bath incomprehensible, look always upon
England as the natural home of liberty
and on an English alliance with France as
the salvation of Europe. But since
neither England nor Prussia played any
important part in his life, which was
chiefly spent in escaping from the prisons
into which his father repeatedly thrust
him, making love and leading and trying
to control the early stages of the Revo-
lution, the suggested path by way of in-
ternational politics into this great and
tumultuous biography is a very faint trail
to follow.
From the political viewpoint, Mirabeau
is chiefly interesting as an example of
one of those liberal intellectuals who, in-
furiated by tyranny, join hands with the
revolutionaries and find they are walking
with a tiger. Given a regime as oppres-
sive as that of Louis XVI, with the spirit
still surviving of those feudal times when
the lord of the manor, on returning from
the chase, was legally entitled to have two
of his vassals disembowelled so that he
could refresh his feet in their carcasses,
there seems to have been no other course
open to such a man of goodwill and such
a victim of patrician and paternal in-
justice as Mirabeau was. But if it was
inevitable that he must join with the revo-
lution it was also inevitable that it must
devour him.
Had he not managed to die exactly at
the right moment, when his power and
popularity were at their height and when
the Revolution, except for a few sinister
and symbolic figures of aristocrats strung
up on trees and lamp-posts, was still held
precariously at the stage of mild con-
stitutional reform, he would certainly
have gone to the guillotine. He could
have made three trips in the tumbrils —
as a former aristocrat, again as a
supporter of the monarchy in the pay of
Marie Antoinette and the third as an up-
holder of tolerance and humanity who
could not possibly have tolerated the
Terror. The Revolution did, in fact,
condemn him and, when “the impure
remains of the royalist Mirabeau were
thrown out the side door” of the Pan-
theon, degraded his body in death.
Profoundly interesting and significant
as Mirabeau’s life is from this aspect,
Antonina Vallentin is not primarily con-
cerned with him either as an inter-
national or a revolutionary portent. She
has the best of all approaches to the art
of biography: simply -to bring her hero
to life. And in all history there have
been few characters so well worth re-
incarnation as Mirabeau.
His father, the formidable old Mar-
quis, who hated him for his ugliness,
despaired of him for his amatory and
political escapades, was jealous of his
talents and feared him as the represen-
tative of a new, more violent develop-
ment of the liberalism he had himself once
advocated, called him “Mr. Hurricane”
chiefly in contempt, but also in grudging
admiration ; and, when he was still .young,
his uncle wrote of him, “I repeat, either
he is the cleverest humbug in the world,
or he will be the greatest man in Europe,
general on land or sea, or minister or
chancellor or Pope, or whatever he wants
to be.” The Marquis, incorrigibly and
magnificently his stiff-necked self, died
jeering at his son, but in an unguarded
moment of almost unqualified approval—
it could never be quite unqualified—he
outdid the uncle in praise:
I regard him as the rarest man of his
century, and perhaps one of the rarest
whom nature has produced—if at the same
time rightness of outlook had been granted
him.
The Marquis was right; Mirabeau, as
Antonina Vallentin portrays him in 500
pages packed with turmoil and brilliant
with color, does indeed seem “one of the
rarest men whom nature has produced” ;
one of the most turbulent, the most im-
petuous, the most fiery, the most mag-
nanimous and, in his personal appearance,
the'most hideous. The sight of him so
much affected Marie Antoinette at their
first meeting, in secret in the gardens of
Saint-Cloud in the early morning, that she
almost fainted. When he first appeared
on the earth, as the result of a recipe
thoughtfully sent to the Marquis, who
had yearned for an heir, by the Due De
Nivernois, he had a twisted ankle, his
head was enormous, he was tongue-tied
—a fault conspicuously absent in his
later years of impassioned oratory —and
he had two teeth already formed in his
mouth, a sign, perhaps, the biographer
suggests, “of a furious appetite for life.”
He was brought up under a discipline
so strict that it might be called martial
law, all the more forbidding for the
coldness and remoteness with which it
was administered: when the Marquis
wanted to scold the child he wrote him
a letter. He grew up with a prodigious
memory and “cross-grained, fiery, fan-
tastic.” (
In his early manhood, when he tried
to bring about a reconciliation between
his mother and the Marquis, who were
then separated, the Marquis living with
his mistress, his mother fired a pistol at
him. He spent the greater part of his
late ’teens and early twenties in prison;
at first in the regimental prison where his
commandant confined him for breaches
of military discipline, afterwards at
various fortresses to which the Marquis
had him committed by lettres de cachet.
When he tried to marry his young mis-
tress in a provincial town and ran away to
Paris to complain about the “deadly
affronts” he had received from his
colonel, whom he believed to have been
his rival, his father shut him up on the
He de Re. He was allowed a certain
amount of liberty on the island, and the
spy his father had set to watch him was
able to report him as “cursing, fighting,
wounding and vomiting a wickedness such
as never was.” He married a young
noblewoman, was promptly unfaithful to
her —as she was to him—was exiled to
a distant town by his father for mis-
managing one of the family estates and,
breaking his exile and beating-up a baron
who had slandered him, was sent to im-
prisonment “at his father’s pleasure” in
the Chateau dTf. Out of that, and sepa-
rated from his wife, he ran off to Holland
with a married woman, Sophie de Mon-
nier, and, as the result of a prosecution
by her elderly husband;
Mirabeau was convicted of the crime of
abduction and condemned to death by
decapitation. The sentence was carried out
in effigy. Judgment was given at the same
time against Sophie, declaring her guilty of
adultery, and condemning her to detention
for life in a house of correction, “there
to be shaven and clothed as are the loose
women of. the community.”
The lovers were arrested in Holland,
brought to France under an extradition
order, and Mirabeau was again im-
prisoned—for four years this time. A
fellow-prisoner in the fortress of Vin-
cennes was the infamous Marquis de
Sade. Mirabeau’s letters to Sophie from
prison are almost as exotic as De Sade’s
writings and, occasionally, as perverse.
In the midst of this extraordinary con-
fusion of debt, duelling, iscandal and
litigation—carried on in an even more
extraordinary publicity which, as An-
tonina Vallentin shrewdly observes, ex-
hibited the “strange suicidal impulse” of
the doomed aristocracy—and emerging
from the adventures of his youth to the
even more perilous adventures of his
maturity among the feuds and intrigues
of revolutionary politics, Mirabeau bears
an astonishing resemblance to another
great Frenchman, Balzac. He is like
Balzac in his physical ugliness ; like him
in his theoretical command of finance and
his practical ability to run himself into
debt; like him in his great range and
breadth of mind, and in the fluency with
which he wrote; like him in the fact
that, though Mirabeau was a genuine
aristocrat and Balzac invented his pedi-
gree, both in the flamboyancy of their
dress and manners always seemed like
parvenus in polite society; like him in
the fact that he was irresistible to women
and irresistibly impelled to pursue them;
like him in his deep and sincere love
of liberty; and above all, like Balzac
in the tornado of his energy.
There is a literary reason which may
partly account for this resemblance.
Antonina Vallentin is a Polish writer who
now lives in Paris —her book is brilliantly
translated from the French by E. W.
Dickes —and one of her friends was Stefan
Zweig. And Zweig, a year or so ago,
published posthumously a life of Balzac
so rich and vivid that, until this life of
Mirabeau was printed, there was nothing
in recent biography with which it could
be compared. But the portrait of Mira-
beau is too convincing, both in its vitality
and in documentation, for it to be im-
agined that Antonina Vallentin has
merely dressed her hero in Balzac’s waist-
coats.
She may have learned from Zweig to
write with passion as well as with fidelity
and to handle an enormous canvas with-
out ever losing sight of her central figure.
But the book stands on its own feet as
magnificently as Mirabeau stood. He
resembles Zweig’s Balzac principally be-
cause he was, in fact, much the same
kind of man, the same Gallic mixture of
force, fury and delight. His career in
politics was the sort of life Balzap—
always tempted away from literature to-
wards. action —might well have led had he
been born in Mirabeau’s tempestuous era.
Le Gay Brerefon .
The textual commentator, annotator
and emendator lives where angels fear to
tread. When J. Le Gay Brereton said of
John Marston’s Histriomastix in 1909:
It is quite certain that he [Marston] was
not the inventor of the piece, and though
there are lines that have his trick of speech
they cannot be accepted as evidence of his
revising hand,
the reader who could barely distinguish
one word from another might have
marvelled at the accuracy with which the
scholar, learned in stresses, orders of
words, mannerisms and so forth, could
trace influences and assign authorships.
But he might have marvelled still more
at a later note:
Marston’s style is obvious enough in
some passages, stormy and strenuous,
snarling and confident, and his peculiar
vocabulary serves as plain signature
No doubt if a businessman were to
opine that he owned a stand of timber in
New Guinea, and a year or two later were
to give it as his reconsidered opinion that
he did not own a stand of timber in New
Guinea, a certain amount of trouble
might ensue. But in the world of books,
put-and-take is a respectable game', and
the players are valued for their ability
candidly to change their minds: so much
of our “Standard Authors” is a collation
of the inspired guesswork of generations
of hard-reading professors.
And these patient, and at times
almost anonymous, labors are sometimes
rewarded with a shine of perception so
valuable as to ensure its professor a share
of his author’s immortality. In R. G.
Howarth’s selection from the writings of
J. Le Gay Brereton, late Professor of
English Literature in the University of
Sydney {Writings on Elizabethan Drama ;
Melbourne University Press), there are
two such perceptions; one for which he
will always be remembered with
Marlowe ; the other with Shakspeare.
The first is the well-known essay, “The
Case of Francis Ingram,” in which, in
1906, he satirised the.many imaginative
accounts which had been given of the
death of Marlowe at the hands of one
Francis Ingram, alias Arthur, alias
Archer. He did this so thoroughly that
when, in 1925, the American scholar
Leslie Hotson discovered the State pardon
granted one Ingram Fraser for killing
Marlowe, he used Brereton’s summary of
previous theories instead of making his
own.
The second perception is “Nathaniel’s
Accident,” a wonderful discovery of a
piece of stage business in Shakspeare’s
“Love’s Labor’s Lost” (Act V, Scene ii,
lines 565-576). This inference of the
dreadful thing that happened to the
nervous curate, Nathaniel, when he came
on stage to act the part of Alexander the
Great in a little pageant within the play,
“was rejected by squeamish editors of
periodicals,” Mr. Howarth tells us, and
published by Brereton himself, in 1929.
The professor can be imagined, elated
with his discovery, turned down by editor
after editor, fearful that someone, after
300 years, might beat him to the an-
nouncement of what “so far as I can dis-
cover, no editor of ‘Love’s Labor’s Lost’
has noticed,” and hurrying off to the
printer to get his name to it, with the
date.
Yet he need not have worried. Eighteen
years later, in 1947, the eagle eye, the
sensitive nose of Mr. Eric Partridge, in
Shakspeare’s Bawdy, a book devoted .to
the subject, entirely missed the signi-
ficance of the scene. It is amusing to see
how close he goes to it; how he takes a
“scabrous pun” out of two lines of it
(571-72) without seeing the scene itself;
how he concludes:
Shakspeare had not that simple type of
mind, so common among the “hearties,”
which guffaws its delighted appreciation of
' long and tedious stories about being “taken
short.”
Well, Mr. Partridge was wrong. As he
says himself: “Probably I have missed
some of Shakspeare’s wittiest scabrosi-
ties.” But he will have to revise his
second edition and acknowledge what Le
Gay Brereton said in 1929.
The professor’s nephew, the poet
Robert D. Fitz Gerald, printed an essay
on Le Gay Brereton last year which pre-
pared us for an unconventional and quiet
wit which the casual reader of these essays
might miss ; as when he is considering
one of Marston’s plays, “written to ex-
hibit the difference betwixt the love of a
courtesan and a wife”.:
A particularly charming wife and a par-
ticularly savage courtesan illustrate the
contrast, so that the special pleading is
rather obvious.
And the same tough wit squeezes a bit
more out of the mirror scene in “Richard
the Second,” when Richard throws a
mirror on the floor in the presence of
Henry, who has deposed him;
Henry says nothing: theatrical senti-
mentality is doing him no harm.
It is by such touches as these that the
professor will go on interesting people
in Marston, Marlowe, Shakspeare and the
Elizabethan Playhouse. A few words of
insight are often more valuable than
whole books of erudition; and Mr.
Howarth is to be congratulated on the
selection of a hundred pages so full of
good things.
Close Season .
Since the days when the law in Mel-
bourne made its onslaught on his Love
Me Sailor, Robert S. Close has had quite
a season. Georgian House published a
second novel, The Dupe ; Love Me Sailor
is being staged in Sydney in a tent; and
now, again from Georgian House, there is
his autobiography, Morn of Youth.
Though the play, somewhat altered in
tone, is apparently a very pleasant
show, the fact that an author has
been banned does not automatically make
him a genius ; and the present reviewer,
while strongly disapproving of the prose-
cution, did not care for Love Me Sailor
as a work of literature.
The complaints that were made against
the novel on the grounds of its frankness
in matters of sex were superficial. The
only justifiable literary complaints to be
brought against Close’s writings are that
sometimes (“bumping into masts and not
knowing it for the fore or the main”)
his style is insensitive and even ungram-
matical, and that his outlook suffers from
an affectation of over-sensitiveness: a
prevailing literary fashion. A story en-
titled “Sputum Sam” which he once pub-
lished in Coast to Coast and which did
not deal at ail with sex was quite as
startling, and as over-startling, as Love
Me Sailor, and for the same reason that
the author, assuming as a literary outlook
that he should be horrified at the
brutality of life, proposed to inflict his
horror on the reader. The result, in-
evitably, is overemphasis and sentimen-
tality : the characteristic failings of melo-
drama.
Traces of this approach are still
apparent in Morn of Youth, particularly
at the beginning where Close invites us
to believe that he was actually dying of
seasickness and at the end where, trying
to make tragedy out of what Matthew
Arnold would have regarded as “merely
painful,” he extracts too much emotion
out of his color-blindness. His affection
for the words “smash” and “bash,” which
occur on pages 7, 12, 17, 42, 61, 63, 111,
150, 166 and 167, is another symptom of
this over-sensitiveness which fails by over-
emphasis. To make his writing fully
effective, Close should reserve his smash-
ings and his bashings, his “clawing
brains” and his “bellowing murders”
until he really needs, for a literary pur-
pose, a supreme effect of horror and
ferocity.
But weaknesses of this kind are com-
paratively rare in Morn of Youth ; which
is, consequently, very much preferable to
Love Me Sailor as a work of art. How
admirably, for instance, Close has handled
the story, which in the novel would
probably have been distorted by over-
emphasis, of the old sailor who so loved
his peculiar timepiece that, when he lost
it, he jumped overboard.
Morn of Youth is not a masterpiece;
nor, except in a rough and rambling way,
is it exactly an autobiography as the
form is usually defined. It has not the
clear centralisation and dramatic move-
ment that made Jack McLaren’s My
First Voyage, for example, at once an
autobiography and a novel, as Conrads
Nigger of the Narcissus, from which Mc-
Laren’s book derived, is at once an auto-
biography and a self-contained work or
art; nor does Close tell in orderly and
(i Continued on page 4.)


••TRUTH IN ADVERTISING-
Dr. PURCELL’S
ARCH REST HEALTH SHOES
Fitted with special Arch Supports
for tender, aching feet! These
Comfort Shoes for men are smart,
too, in Tan Calf and Black Box
Calf, with caps or plain, and
genuine welted soles. Medium or
extra wide fittings. Price, 49/6 pr.
i' 1 -
H I
1
■
m
■
u
<
a;
co
SPECIAL
gg|||||9w
v;
m
■■. . >
€
,/M.
anm iiiinis
A reputation of solid dependability for the best makes of Shoes,
perfect fitting carried out by expert fitters and courteous attention
and advice always. Men’s Shoes Dept.—Ground Floor, George Street
wJWJS M '
Brownhill’s Super Grade Shoes in Black
Box Calf, Tan Calf and Glace Kid. All
with genuine welted soles and medium or
wide fittings in full and half sizes. 42/3
-vi
m
pill
i i! rm i
T"
. < - ** • *
- - &».
Comfort plus. For the winter months
ahead. Brown Grained Albert Slippers
with welt sewn soles and lined with warm
lambswool. All sizes 5 to 11, 24/6 pair
Brownhill’s Super Grade Golf Shoes
made up in Tan Grained leather with
welted non-slip rubber soles. In full and
half sizes. Price 42/3 pair
BOX
G.P.0., SYDNEY
FREIGHT PAID


connected form the full story of his years
at sea to make the usual pattern of
reminiscences.
Morn of Youth is fragmentary. It
consists of scraps of autobiography filled
out, quite naturally and justifiably, with
yarns of the sea which Close picked up
on his travels. And while the book has
not the unity or the force to make a
striking impact as a whole, the fragments
a're all very good stuff, readable, pleasant,
sometimes exciting, sometimes well-
written and always having about them
the authentic tang of the sea. As an
example of its descriptive quality one
may quote this picture of life aboard a
sailing-ship in the tropic night:
With the night the ship drifts into a
stygian pit unlit by the slightest glimmer.
A scourge of total blindness strikes each
man as he steps from the lighted shelter of
his quarters to the deck. Slowly men grope
along the deck, bumping into masts and
not knowing it for the fore or the main,
finding ' ropes only by touch, crawling
weirdly aloft to furl unseen sails. Then the
heavens are ripped with fire, with a jagged,
searing light that for one instant reveals
the ship in an electric flash, stark and still,
and men creeping like cockroaches, gleam-
ing blackly in oilskins and sou’-westers,
stare-eyed, and tensed for the immediate
and appalling blast of thunder. Then the
slow fade of the petrified picture and again
there is only the lowering darkness of a
doldrum night.
Close shipped as a boy aboard the
barque Shandon, which was refitted dur-
ing the First World War to carry wheat
from Australia to England. Exactly how
many voyages he made, and where he
went and how many years he was at
sea before color-blindness made him miss
his mate’s ticket and retire it is impossible
to discover from his disjointed narrative;
but at any rate he had enough adven-
tures of his own; ,and learned enough
about other people’s, to make a lively
book.
There is a good story, which at a
suitable distance might be compared both
with Youth and The Nigger, of the
Victor’s voyage from Delagoa Bay to
Fremantle with a sick crew. There are
accounts of whecks among the islands
of the Pacific and of heroic boat-voyages
to bring rescue. There are some of the
legends and superstitions of sailors, in-
cluding an eerie yam of a mirage that
led an American destroyer to find three
dead men in a lifeboat hundreds of miles
from where she was sailing when she
first sighted them, and another of a sailor
in a green sou’-wester who, being alone
and mad in a lifeboat, is alleged to have
climbed in some phantom shape aboard a
ship and altered her course so that she
would come and save him. There are
also many anecdotes, mostly humorous,
about the pranks of Close’s fellow-
apprentices, and there are interesting
notes on the ocean’s birds, beasts, fishes
and freaks of weather: the harpooning
of a giant ray, observations on sharks
and albatrosses, and a picture of a water-
spout which, believing that the centre is
a vacuum and that the tower of water
would collapse if it was punctured,
Close’s skipper shot with a rifle. The
waterspout did not collapse.
Mr. Wilson Gets Tough.
In the 20 years between the two world
wars, the American novelists, Hemingway
and Faulkner, and the American poets,
Ezra Pound and T. S. Eliot, made
American creative writing supreme in the
English-speaking world. But American
writing still had to go to England to be
criticised. London opinion, backed by the
authority of Oxford and Cambridge, is
still the final maker and breaker of writ-
ing in English; and the American critics
know it, and resent it.
It is interesting to see this resentment
working in Edmund Wilson, literary critic
of the “New Yorker” and one of the
ablest critics America has produced, dur-
ing his tour of England and Europe as a
war, correspondent in the spring and
summer of 1945 {Europe without a
Baedeker; Sketches among the Ruins of
Italy, Greece and England —Seeker and
Warburg).
Working in series of those perceptions
which are the only memory that good
criticism leaves behind it, uncompromis-
ing in statement of his impressions, as
becomes the author of the Hecate County
stories, Mr. Wilson’s writings have a
spleneticism peculiarly their own: it
resembles the irritable commentary of a
doctor conducting a post-mortem on a
decaying corpse. But during his tour
Mr. Wilson had to operate not on books,
but on people; and as, to his astonish-
ment, the corpses sit up and answer
back, his spleneticism develops into a
cold fury.
He begins with goodwill. The English
are “quieter, more orderly, politer,” than
Americans. London is “a pleasant city,”
whereas New York is nothing better than
“an unscrupulous real-estate speculation.”
He is “amazed” by the quiet efficiency
of the London theatre; the New York
Stage has been demoralised by Hollywood
and spoiled by fantastic billing. More-
over, the literary world of London is
“impressive through its good faith and
sobriety”:
There are several good English writers
who do literary articles for the newspapers,
but they do them so extremely badly that
one can hardly recognise their hands, and
this does not seem to affect their other
work. What is fatal to the American writer
is to be brilliant at disgraceful or second-
rate jobs. A man who has been to Oxford
is always likely to keep a certain residuum
that is not much affected by change or a
different intellectual climate But with the
kind of American writer who has no educa-
tion to speak of, you are unable to talk
at all once Hollywood or Luce has got him.
From Edmund Wilson this is all very
kind. But then the “intellectual climate”
changes, Mr. Wilson begins to attend
literary do’s. He is disturbed to find
that, unlike the great writers of the past
generation—Wells, Shaw, Bennett—the
new writers are all wearing old-school ties.
They are disposed to ridicule America.
Using American slang, they pretend there
is no such place as America. So fine
and new a critic as George Orwell “had
the notion that the language was being
impoverished in America.” By page 15,
Mr. Wilson is analysing the “British rude-
ness.” By page 19, he is “led to reflect
on the methods which the English have
invented and perfected for warding off
inconvenient questions”:
A favorite device is the False Issue.
This is best handled in the tone of polite
ridicule. They acquire the technique so
early that I think they must be trained in
it at Oxford. If you do not want to stand
by the Poles, you make fun of them for
their effervescence, thus implying that they
are quite irresponsible; if Gandhi is becom-
ing too powerful, you are amusing about
his loin-cloth and goat. Only in more
aggravated cases do you resort to moral
indignation. If the Americans expect loans
to be paid, you denounce them as “Uncle
Shylock”; if the Irish are becoming impor-
tunate, you raise a hue and cry against
Parnell on the ground that he has com-
mitted adultery. When the outrage has not
merely to be defended, but to be per-
petrated in the presence of the victim, a
special skill and address are required.
This demands that the thing be presented
either—on the ground of gentlemanliness—
in such a way that, if the victim objects,
he will appear to be behaving badly; or —
on the ground of manly idealism—in such
a way that, if he does not subscribe, he
will seem to confess sordid self-interest.
By this time hopping-mad, Mr. Wilson
hops off to Rome, records a thin inter-
view with George Santayana, gives his
impressions of post-war Rome, reviews
the Marxist writers Malraux and Silone,
invents a long story about the experiences
of American Mattie and English Hattie
to show the silly things that happened to
U.N.R.R.A. workers, and visits some
Russian exiles.
These writings, and the writings about
midsummer in London and Rome, and
about Greek politics and liberated
Greece, do not stand up very well. The
news has dropped out of them; and all
that remains is the tedious style of the
“New Yorker’s” Reporter-at-Large, a
jacquard loom repeating endlessly its
unchanging and unemotional pattern.
Two characteristic Wilson studies of
women, an English girl called G, and a
Greek girl called Eleni, in which they are
carefully described and analysed from
head to toe, with precise inventories of
their wardrobes, fail to come to life.
Only in Chapter 7, and towards the
end of Chapter 12, does he again become
exciting reading: on both occasions,
when his careful pose of critical onlooker
is shattered by the British, he attacks
with cold rage. In Chapter 7, on British
officials, his main victim is a white-
whiskered old administrator whom he
disguises as “Sir Osmond Gower,” and
who is somewhat vain of his classical
scholarship. First he tells the story of
how, when the British troops did not
turn up for a literary lecture on V.E.-
day. Sir Osmond insisted on their attend-
ance, hangover or not, on the following
day, whereupon “several hundred rather
sulky men were detailed to listen to the
lecture.”
Next, Mr. Wilson meets Sir Osmond,
who tells him that he has been reading
Dante in the plane to Rome, and “gave
us the impression that there was some
sort of peculiar literary merit in relishing
Dante in a plane. I brought up the only
passage I could think of that could pos-
sibly connect Dante with aviation: his
account of his flight into Malbolge on
the back of the monster Geryon . . .
and the effect of this upon Sir Osmond
was to impel him to recite at length the
description of the appearance of Geryon,
which was not the passage in point.”
And not only was Sir Osmond beside
the point, but he also was a bore, an
unprofessional entertainer, and a British
imperial agent of the kind that settle
in foreign countries, “keep the natives at
arm’s length, and gather up, along with
solider loot, the cultural possessions of
the region.”
The malevolence of this attack is
matched only by the description, at the
end of Chapter 12, of the British officers’
mess at Delphi.
Mr. Wilson was once a Communist
and is still a Socialist, but his politics
hardly explain these attacks. He is not
above poetic guesses himself —as see his
theory that Peter Grimes, in Benjamin
Britten’s opera, represents sadistic Ger-
many, and his theory that the bull symbol
in the newly-discovered Minoan ruins
was devised by someone who had looked
down upon Crete from a mountain and
thought the island resembled a bull’s
head—so perhaps it is not too much of
a shot in the dark to suggest that Mr.
Wilson is a literary critic of great power
in the United States who found that in
England they had little or no regard for
his opinion ; indeed, hardly knew he had
one.
A similar disquiet can be detected in
the works of other patriotic Americans,
in those of H. L. Mencken, for instance.
They accuse Britain of using their words
and neglecting their literature; they de-
mand that Britain shall hand them over
the King’s English to be dealt with as
they please; they beg for some sign of
recognition.
The only weapon they do not use is
the only weapon they can win with ; and
that is the British weapon of indifference.
R. McC.
Enchanted in the Argentine .
British Dominion and colonial writers
of travels and adventures have developed
a style, sometimes playful, sometimes
coy, which used to be known as the racy,
or the breezy, style. It was said of
Australia’s Mr. Frank Clune (whose latest
book, published by Angus and Robert-
son, is a gigantic history of bushranging,
chiefly concerned with Ben Hall’s lot,
entitled Wild Colonial Boys) that he was
the breeziest author that ever blew.
The Argentine’s Sir Christopher Gibson
is not a dangerous competitor, but the
reader of his book Enchanted Trails
(Museum Press) will notice a scent of
familiar clichds in the air;
I had foolishly agreed to convey an
ocelot by train from Asuncion to Buenos
Aires, en route for the London Zoo. The
dear little creature weighed something like
sixty pounds; and when, out of the kind-
ness of my heart, I decided to give him a
walk on the crowded platform of Concordia
station, he was so full of gratitude that
in an ecstasy of playfulness he whipped off
my flannel trousers with his powerful claws,
to the intense gratification of the gaping
multitude. And, not satisfied with this
hideous deed, he proceeded to die of
pneumonia on the voyage overseas.
Still, the picture is there, and one as
good as it on almost every page; Sir
Christopher is no piker in literature or
in life. Member of the Gibson family
of Scots businessmen which has huge
interests in the Argentine and in Para-
guay, he was appointed in 1921
to form the personal link between the
ranch managers, Asuncion, Buenos Aires
and the London Boards. Part of the
Gibson properties lying nearest the riparian
zone of the Paraguayan Chaco was fused
with part of another company whose
properties were similarly situated, in order
to build up and fence in a gigantic block
of half a million acres, for the purpose
of raising seventy thousand head of cattle.
The remainder of this company’s lands,
unstocked and unsurveyed even today,
stretches right across the Paraguayan Chaco
to the Bolivian frontier and covers four
million acres.
The Paraguayan Chaco is the country
west of the Paraguay River, marsh, silt,
hardwood forest, scrubby palms, oily
creeks. It rises an inch a mile westwards
to the Bolivian plateau, its growth more
stunted as the rainfall is less. When the
Paraguay is in flood the riparian-area
stock tend to drown, and during droughts
the creeks recede with the river. The
underground water is unfit for drinking;
dams must be replaced Svery year after
the rainy season washes them away, and
the rancher no sooner collects water in
the broad and wide reservoirs they are in
the habit of making than the heat and
evaporation dry it up.
When Sir Christopher arrived there
were no roads on the Chaco side of the
river, and, to make it worse, a gang of
American cowboys brought out in 1912
under Tex Rickard to work one of the
enormous properties had got out of con-
trol, rustled the company’s cattle, staged
shooting sprees and helped themselves to
champagne baths at Concepcion, across
the river; and by 1920 had dispersed,
leaving the country full of wild and
vicious cattle, and domestic pigs, crossed
with the native white-lipped peccaries, so
savage that “there was little to choose be-
tween them and the jaguars which then
abounded.” The book opens with some
stories of the exploits of one of the cow-
boys, stories of such intricate but engag-
ing villainy as to be reminiscent of O.
Henry.
It was in these circumstances that the
author, with his British ranch managers,
including several Australians, set about
reclaiming and improving an estate sb
vast that it had to be divided into five
or six ranches. But of the business of
cattle-raising he has almost nothing to
say. He regarded his annual inspection
of properties as holidays from his desk
at Buenos Aires; and he has crammed
his book with observations of human and
wild life, with hunting, shooting and fish-
ing, and with the dangers and humors
of travel in those awkward places.
In one of his early rounds of the Chaco
estates, which took him 400 miles in a
month, he encountered the Lengua
Indians, their chief. Stinking Water, and
their medicine-man, Rat Face; and
learned from their mission chief how, in
1889, the missionary Barbrooke Grubb
was stabbed in the back, but had the good
fortune to be carried to the toldo or hut
of friendly Lenguas; and how, towards
evening, Mr. Grubb, though feeling very
unwell, “would make heroic efforts to
manifest his vigor, telling them he was
as strong as a tiger” . . . For Lengua
Indians belieVe that a man who dies at
night returns as a spirit to curse the tribe;
and if he looks as though he may die in
the dark, friendly or not, they bury him
alive before sunset.
Later, on a visit to the Miranda pro-
perty farther up and on the other side
of the river. Sir Christopher came across
a much tougher lot of customers, the
Matto Grosenos, a cross of negroes and
Indians, in the most lawless corner of
Brazil. Sir Christopher and his right-
hand man Vicente had 24 hours to wait
at the port of Esperanza for a train.
Revolver-shots greeted them at the pub,
a large room open on two sides to nature.
“For the sake of appearance, the bar-
cwm-post-ofßce next door had been par-
titioned off with a quarter-inch deal
boarding, and on the other side of the
room was the brothel.”
Another characteristic story, of coun-
try higher up, the “Green Hell” corner
of Bolivia, was told the author by Don
Ramon Garcia, the Bolivian explorer:
a ghastly story of 83 men on a survey who
encountered a germ in their drinking-
water which caused a man three days’
horrible suffering, after which “his in-
nards literally dropped out.” After 18
months eight men returned of the
original 83,
The Chaco country, poor in most
things, is so rich in birds as to send Sir
Christopher into ecstasies; his mere list
of birds startled and flying past him from
one huge swamp fills the best part of a
page. But the most remarkable bird is
a little white bird whose “thin whistle,
turned with rapid crescendo to a loud
screech cut off with terrific abruptness,”
brought the 1914-18 war back to him so
vividly that at first hearing he dived at
the ground. He named it the “shellshock
bird.”
The Chaco also has leaf-cutter ants
which snip leaves from trees, while carrier-
ants below, in orderly ranks, pick up the
leaves and carry them on roads as well-
defined as wagon-wheel tracks, to their
huge nests ; a branch-cutting beetle which
saws round and round a growing branch
about two inches in diameter until it
drops off cleanly of its own weight; and
a “railway-train” beetle which glows so
brilliantly from each side of the head
and underneath it that its green light will
shine over quite a large area against the
competition of a lamp.
Sir Christopher’s favorite sport is fish-
ing for dorado, a thick fish of twelve to
sixty pounds, and evidently a good
fighter. It is caught with a spoon on a
piano-wire trace. There is also an out-
size in catfish, the muscular manguruyu-
One of these hauled a fisherman out of
his canoe. The fisherman’s companion
hauled him back again. The manguruyu
then towed the canoe eight miles, after
which the fishermen went ashore and
managed to haul the manguruyu after
them, weighing it in at 400 pounds.
The things they do from canoes are
frightening, especially since the piraha,
the world’s most vicious fish, swarms in
those waters. To put your leg in the
water is to chance having a toe bitten
off, or to have the whole limb cleaned to
the bone in a few minutes from the tri-
angular bites of these small fish, each
bite hollowing out a lump of flesh the
size of half a billiard-ball. Yet one of
the ranch managers liked to go harpoon-
ing alligators from a canoe, using a spear
and a few yards of cord, and Sir Chris-
topher’s young sons would harness an
alligator to a dugout canoe and make it
tow them up and down. They varied this
with roping the tails of the more danger-
out caymans, or crocodiles, just for the
pleasure of seeing what they would do.
Sir Christopher’s last page is a mysti-
fication. After some reference to the
effect of the last war on South America,
he mentions a “story behind the story” or
Axis influence in the Argentine which
remains to be told. He wrote that in 1943.
In September, 1945, he added a post-
script :
The Peace seems harder to win, and is
even more disturbing, than the War. Per-
haps this great country is the most turbulent
of them all: certain it is that a long, long
time will elapse before the “story behind
the story” is allowed to see the light 01
Surely these are very strange words.?,


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3604
Wednesday, March 9, 1949
“PHILOSOPHER” IN ACTION.
“On the Continent and In Asia Communist tyranny and terrorism are spreading. In India terrorists have thrown victims, dead or alive, into furnaces.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H, Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney;,
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
.Victoria:. Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
LABOR'S CANDID FRIEND.
In his radio broadcast discounting the
blessings of the 40-hour week the “Labor”
Premier of Tasmania said a mouthful.
To the backroom boys of the “Golden
Age” planning department it could have
looked no better when Mr. Cosgrove next
day “explained” that his, statement was
made not for political purposes, but in
the role of candid friend —that “plague”
which Canning described as the supreme
manifestation of heavenly wrath.
Long before the hearing of the 40-hour
case by the Federal Arbitration Court in
1947 Mr. Cosgrove distinguished himself
by voicing a demand for more produc-
tion, in the days when that was counted
a sort of heresy in “the movement.”
Presumably he w r as not a very willing
barracker for the shorter week among
the “Labor” Governments which joined
in pressing the Court to comply. At any
rate, this is what he thinks of the 40-
hour week today:
It makes one wonder, when subsequent
results are summed up, if the introduction
of the 40-hour week was premature
The shorter week was to have been regarded
as a prize for diligence and devotion to
work. Its advent would enable workers to
enjoy more leisure in healthy pursuits and
cultural vocations
Now some Australian unions have an-
nounced openly their policy of campaign-
ing for an even shorter working period.
On the contrary, every effort should be
made to retain the 40-hour week before it
is too late.
In a Federal-election year Mr. Cos-
grove denies that these remarks had any
political purpose. Having drawn the ex-
pected fire from his own side, he explained
that his remarks merely endorsed senti-
ments expressed recently by Sir Stafford
Cripps, Mr. Chifley, President Truman
and Mr. Anthony Eden. In mid-January,
about the time that Mr. Chifley was
terminating his Tasmanian holiday in the
region of Mr. Cosgrove’s headquarters,
this is what Sir Stafford Cripps told an
English “Labor” audience in one of the
new Socialist development-areas at Work-
ington, in Cumberland;
New wage demands at this moment
would be short-sighted, unfair, ignorant,
and quite possibly deliberately mischievous.
Economic priorities must be exports first,
capital investment second, and personal
consumption last. Subsidies to control
price-levels were running at the level of
£5OO million a year—about £lO per capita
of the population—or more than double
the figure at the end of the war, and are
still rising.
Here is the main contributory cause of
inflation in Britain, where wages are still
pegged. Mr. Chifley’s inflation has
been boosted rather by the unpegging of
wages, leading to wage rises in an in-
creasingly steeper but still fruitless pursuit
of costs of living. The Prime Minister
is not so happy as many of his Caucus
members pretend to be with the value of
high wages so obtained as a trump-card
at this year’s elections. His statement a
few hours after that of Mr. Cosgrove
was; —•
If the present industrial expansion....
was pushed too far and too fast—and
there were signs that that was happening
in some quarters—costs would be forced
up Competitive bidding for labor and
scarce materials had already caused an
unhealthy rise of costs Spending must
be firmly restrained, and there must be
all-round efforts to step-up production per
man-hour.
Obviously this does not controvert Mr.
Cosgrove; it rather supports him, while
trying to minimise the damage done.
But the brick has been dropped, and
“Labor” heads are being scratched in ex-
asperation all over the Commonwealth.
As Captain Cuttle’s oracular friend,
Bunsby, the commander of the Cautious
Clara, said in another emergency:-
If a skipper stands out by Sen’ George’s
Channel, making for the Downs, what’s
right ahead of him? The Goodwins. He
isn’t forced to run upon the Goodwins,
but he may. The bearings of this observa-
tion lays in the application on it.
The bearings of Mr. Cosgrove’s
observation are that the 40-hour week is
not practicable (though 18 months ago
Mr. Cosgrove’s Government joined other
“Labor” Governments in assuring the
Arbitration Court Bench that it was), that
it is premature (as the employers told
the court then but were greeted with
polite derision), and that the court should
be made aware at the basic-wage hearing
that it must look more closely than ever
to the effect upon the national interest of
what it may do with the new union
demands.
In the 40-hour case the Arbitration
Court, as the Bench confessed, felt itself
to be committed to a course it viewed
with much doubt. This time the Chifley
Government seems to be in that plight.
It “intervened” in the previous case as
a party, and so heartily that its counsel
told the court:
The Commonwealth says to the court,
through me, as its spokesman, with con-
sidered words, that after full consideration
of all the material which has been placed
before the court, the Commonwealth’s
view is that the evidence given warrants the
granting of a 40-hour week,
After that sort of effort, described by
the Bench as “of the first importance,”
Mr. Chifley’s efficacy as an intervener
naturally rated very high. As soon as
the unions began preparing their new
basic-wage campaign—the preliminary
skirmishes in court have already occurred
and the current sporadic strikes called
by militant unions are the creation of
“evidence” to “impress the court” —the
A.C.T.U. requested “intervention” again
by Mr. Chifley; intervention, as one of
its spokesmen sweetly explained, “by way
of assisting the court, without actually
supporting the A.C.T.U.’s claim,” After
long silence the Federal Government, as
Senator McKenna told a Launceston
meeting, has decided to intervene.
Maybe it does not matter very much.
The Trades Halls have already so con-
fused the Prime Minister’s appeals on
more production and on incentive-pay-
ments that the Cautious Clara may run
on the Goodwins anyway, simply because
the rudder won’t answer to Mr, Chifley’s
wheel.
The A.C.T.U. first would not have a
bar of the incentive scheme; then it
became indignant because Mr, Chifley
moved to reconstitute an A.L.P.
executive as his Ministry’s industrial
advisory committee. Having compelled
Mr. Chifley to compromise on this com-
mittee question, the A.C.T.U. began to
bargain for terms on incentives. Mr.
Holloway tried unsuccessfully ‘a bit of
sleight-of-hand to get incentive-payments
defined as extra money for overtime
only, not within the 40-hour week. That
was promptly vetoed by the employers,
who would have to do the paying. The
thing is now becoming deliberately con-
fused with the argument for a higher
basic wage—with a “loading” perhaps as
incentive —which would ridicule the whole
proposal and get not an ounce more
production out of the unions.
With every move now the Chifley
Government is in danger of slipping up.
The Cosgrove statement has revealed the
greasy state of the path, and, together
with Mr. Chifley’s accompanying observa-
tions, has made nonsense of “Labor’s”
case for the elections that the soaring
prices of household commodities are the
result of the “No” vote at the prices
referendum. Two months ago in these
columns, dealing with the same ever-
recurring problem, it was commented:
“Faced with desperate reality, a
‘Labor’ leader may again be forced to
break with ‘Labor’ policy.” It looks
more like it than ever.
Giving Away New Guinea.
At Canberra during the past week a
momentous and iniquitous bill has been
bludgeoned through the House of Repre-
sentatives in the usual intolerant and
totalitarian fashion. It is a bill which is
enough to make the spirit of every soldier,
ever y slaughtered civilian on the
northern fringes of our defence bastions,
rise from the grave and accuse its
promoters, and which aims not merely to
hand over New Guinea, twice wrested
from enemy Powers, to the United
Nations hut also in pffert Pannn an
Cf 11011 , 8 ’ 7* ’ 9 V pUa ’ an
integral part of Australia, and a scarcely-
developed and vast terrain,
I n cold blood Parliament is giving a
hotchpotch group of people, the U.N.O.
1™?“ 9°“ tSterv S N Z
™ in °’ utet crust o£ om * £ enc« must
be built—a statutory right even to our
known enemies (who are at war with us
in Berlin and elsew here) to spy on us
there> to veto out to
determine a procedure and policy which
must perforce be applied not only to
New Guinea but to our own soil in
since £hd hill provides that the
legislature and administrations of the two
areas must be unified,
To make this position worse, the
Minister for External Territories who
sponsored the biff has been “relieved,”
and could not be present to explain his
policy. His administration and motives
are not allowed to be brought into issue
in Parliament, where the acting-Speaker
gives the widest possible interpretation to
the meaning of the words “sub judice.”
Further, though the most important
constitutional issues and considerations of
foreign policy are involved, there is no
Attorney-General and no Minister for
External Affairs on the spot to explain the
position and to take responsibility.
Dr. Evatt, when public opinion reacts
unfavorably against U.N.O. trusteeship
in New Guinea, will be able to make the
excuse —as he had done in relation to
charges against him more than once upon
important issues during the past couple
of years—that he was “abroad when it
happened,” and that the responsibility
rests with a deputy. .
This time there was no excuse
for his being away. There is no earth-
shaking occasion to take him off in a
hurry. He is merely “rushing” to London
to appear in an action before the Privy
Council which is designed to further the
carrying-out of the socialisation policy
foisted on the Labor party 27 years ago
by Mr. J, S, Garden and two or three
associates, and which has lain dormant
most of the time, showing that there has
been no urgency about it. He had not the
time to pause on his home perch a few
days to deal with a vital bill compromis-
ing our right to govern our own territory.
The Opposition, stirred from the
lethargy which has seemed to affect it
this session, has fought hard against the
bill, though no argument could affect the
Government’s line of action, it not being
a free agent. The big Communist-
dominated unions have decided “Govern-
ment” policy. It has been transmitted
through the A.L.P. executive and meekly
accepted by Caucus. The real Parlia-
ments have come to their decisions
months ago, and the measure has been
sent to Canberra merely for registration
by a sympathetic Minister who has been
compelled to have the job done by a
deputy because of the misfortunes which
compel his absence.
Nevertheless the measure seems to have
caused the Government moments of
doubt, and anxiety. Some Ministers
sounded as if they were trying to bolster
up an indefensible case.
One of these was Mr. Chambers,
Minister for the Army. At the moment
when the Government finds it necessary
to appoint a new secret Gestapo to supple-
ment the teeming Security Service which
already exists, but which seems to be too
busily engaged in investigating the poli-
tical backgrounds and actions of oppo-
nents of the Government to devote itself
to military security, he decried the talk
of war and pooh-poohed the considera-
tions of defence put forward in criticism
of the bill as “showmanship,” and
attempted to place on the shoulders of
the Menzies Government the responsi-
bility for actions in the war against
Japan, which did not begin until two
months after it left office.
The Trustee Council of U.N.O. consists
of two sections —those nations which ad-
minister “trust territories,” which are the
U.K., U.S.A., Australia, New Zealand,
Belgium and France, and an equal
number of nations not concerned in the
administration of such territories.
These at present include China, which
looks like becoming a Communist
satellite of Russia; Mexico, which has
shown a close affinity for socialism
of the Communist brand; and Iraq,
which itself was a mandate after the last
war. Costa Rica is another, a Central
American republic smaller than Tasmania
with a population of 750,000 and which
last year was in the throes of civil war ;
also the Philippines, a “shield” between
Asia and our territories, whose President,
when the Japanese invaded it, immediately
approached President Roosevelt with a
request that he should agree with the
Japanese to have his islands treated as
neutral, the troops of both sides, includ-
ing General Mac Arthur’s gallant de-
fenders of Bataan, then in dire straits,
to be withdrawn from Philippine soil.
The sympathies of some of these
people with policies adverse to Australian
ideals are obvious. But the most im-
portant fact is that the U.S.S.R. is a
member of the Trustee Council. Since
it will veto anything it does not approve
either in the form or policy of the new
Government of New Guinea, the Can-
berra legislation might be more appropri-
ately described as “A bill to allow the
Soviet Union to supervise and control
the Government of the Trustee Territory
of New Guinea and the Australian Terri-
tory of Papua.”
So far as some of the forces which
direct the Government behind the scenes
are concerned, that is exactly what the
measure is intended to be.
"Labor " and the Country.
As reckless with his promises now as
in his election speeches in 1947, N.S.W.
Premier McGirr came in on the Canberra
scheme to divert the Snowy River waters
with a grander water scheme of his own.
According to Mr. McGirr’s Minister for
Conservation, Mr. Weir, two million
acre-feet of Darling water (Hume Dam
at present holds a mere If million) is to
be dammed in the Menindie lakes to
provide water for a million pastoral
acres along “600 miles of the Darling.”
There is nothing new about the scheme.
Before the war a thoughtful Govern-
ment officer put it to an Agricultural
Bureau conference, accompanied by
sketches and* lantern-slides of the lakes.
Now it has been dug out, and, along with
the Snowy River scheme, with pro-
mises to expand the Ivlurrumbidgee irri-
gation areas, to set up a brand-new “Con-
servation Authority” in N.S.W. to man-
age water, forests and soil, to provide
Queensland country dwellers with a few
thousand telephones, to build hospitals,
schools, aerodromes and heaven knows
what else in country districts, is all part
of an obvious Canberra-Sydney “Labor”
plan to dazzle rural folk into voting
“Labor” at the forthcoming elections.
This Mr. McGirr who promised in
1947 to build 90,000 homes in N.S.W.
within three years and hasn’t built a
third of them, but who is all there to set
up night-trots and dog-tracks, whose
Government can’t even run a tram service
properly or build a hospital, promises to
spend some £1 or £4 million on “country-
development schemes,”
“Labor” is mightily concerned about
the country vote. It knows, unless it is
blind and deaf, that the attempt on
the banks last year dissolved whatever
illusions remained about “Labor” in the
country ; for when it struck at the banks
it struck at private ownership and the
whole fabric of country life.
Country people have long memories.
They aren’t likely to regard as friend
and savior this Mr. McGirr who, to get
votes, rushed the 40-hour week into
operation in his State before the properly-
constituted authority, the Arbitration
Court, then sitting on the matter, could
deal with it, and in that one reckless
vote-catching act started Australia on
the ruinous path of rapidly rising costs,
inflation and underproduction of essen-
tial goods. Upon Mr. McGirr rests
much of the blame for lack of implements
and implement-parts, wire-netting, fumi-
gants and stock-medicines. Upon him
and his mob rests the responsibility for
rotting wheat stacks while wheat-ships
grow barnacles in Sydney Harbor be-
cause the McGirr railways, brought to
ruin by his 40-hour week, couldn’t handle
a normal harvest, |
Nor are country folk likely to look
upon Mr. Chifley, with all his “country-
development” plans, in a kindly light. A
vast and as yet nebulous Snowy River
scheme will hardly compensate the
country for postponed wool sales, chronic
coal losses and shipping hold-ups, meat
and transport muddles and all the losses
and maddening delays and shortages of
material inflicted on the country by “go-
slow” and strikes, 90 p.c. of which could
and would be stopped by a determined
Government which placed the nation’s
interests before votes.
This sudden interest in “country de-
velopment” by “Labor” in Canberra and
Sydney is very lik'ely stimulated, in part
at any rate, by the northern N.S.W. new-
State movement and by the obvious in-
tention of North Queensland to follow
suit. These movements are very signifi-
cant for “Labor,” for among other things
they aim at reform of the “Labor”-rigged
Senate, at escape from the centralisation
policy of socialism, and at freedom from
the tyranny of “Labor’s” special pets, the
“militant” unions. The Country party
is the driving political force behind new-
States, and the Liberal party supports
it; “Labor” chooses to ignore them
or oppose and belittle them.
Apart from and above all this is the
country concern about defence and Com-
munism. In 1914-18, as in 1939-45,
country enlistments in fighting services
far outweighed metropolitan enlistments
on a comparative basis, largely because
love of country and the old impulse ot
patriotism are deep in the countrv
character. And country people hate
Communists —“political philosophers to
Mr. Chifley, “Christ-like” people to his
Mr. Holloway. Communism threatens no
other form of Australian life as it
threatens rural life.
The Victorian Premier, a man not given
to wild statements, has announced that
he firmly believes that if the industrial
trouble in his State late last year ha
not been settled there would have been
bloodshed— Communist-inspired blood-
shed —and added, “Bloodshed might yet
come to Australia. We should save her
from it.” The only people likely to
cause it are these “political-philosopher
friends of “Labor.” If ‘‘Labor” sup
poses that the country people don t know
that Communists are the nations deao-
liest enemies it has a poor idea of coun-
try thinking. And if “Labor” supposes
that country people can be dazzled o.
“country - development” promises m
forgetting “Labor’s” sectionalism an
socialisation schemes it has another tmnK
coming.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A.B.C. and A.L.P.
of the A.C.T.I . and ot course the Com-
munist union-leaders whose line takes
them in and ou„ of step with the A.C.T.U.
according to the whims of the hour, have
long since ordered a calculated and
mounting campaign of strikes to cul-
minate on H-day, which is the day the
Federal Arbitration Court begins its
hearing of the enlarged basic-wage case.
These strikes are designed to “impress”
the Court—the union-leaders have im-
pudently said so —and it was even planned
that on the opening day of the hearing—
in mid-May—a mass demonstration
should march through Melbourne to the
court’s precincts.
It is no coincidence that stoppages
by the ships’ painters and dockers, the
wool-and-basil-workers, the storemen and
packers, and the permanent and casual
waterside-workers have all been called
in aid of demands for an extra 30s. a
week, and that this strike effort is almost
entirely concentrated in Melbourne. The
list may be expected to grow during the
next nine or ten weeks before the basic-
wage hearing comes on. That will be
according to plan.
On the precedent of the 40-hour-week
ramp in 1947, along with , this pressure
from the unions the Federal Government
—such was the plan—would “intervene,”
and Senator McKenna went last week
to a Tasmanian A.L.P. conference in
Launceston to convey the tidings that the
Federal Government had decided to
intervene. It would not be surprising if
the ghost of Mr. Justice Higgins also de-
cided to intervene.
All the State Governments will be
there, too, and with their hearts in their
Signs that a Federal election is not
far off may be seen in the urge which
has moved the Australian Broadcasting
Commission to inaugurate a series of talks
called: “What’s Your Solution to the
Growing Social Problem?” In each of
the series it puts forward a speaker who
beefs out his views for 20 minutes and
is then “cross-examined” by a barrister.
Mr. Simon Isaacs has not been selected
as the barrister.
When the talk is over the announcer
says that the matter is now “before the
jury” of listeners, and he advises them to
discuss what they have heard and come
to a conclusion, but not before they ha,ve
applied to Box 487, G.P.0., Sydney, for
material which will enable them to form
listening-groups to develop “an informed
public opinion.”
The first speaker under the system was
“Mr. J. A. Ferguson, M.L.C., secretary
of the Australian Railways Union”—a
rather coy description of him in view of
the fact that he is also president of the
N. S. Wales A.L.P.
Mr. Ferguson delivered a lecture on
trade-union policy and was duly “cross-
examined” as to his ideals.
Those who decided to enlarge their
minds after hearing Mr. Ferguson’s
sugary and incomplete exposition and
who wrote to the A.B.C. for the literary
matter which was to “inform public
opinion” received a printed octavo leaflet
described on its front cover as: “Trade
Union Solution . . . Summary of Broad-
cast for Discussion by Listening Groups,
A.B.C. Programme, February 28, 1949,
Proposed by Mr. J. A. Ferguson, M.L.C.”
It is a most curious “summary.” It
contains three pages set out like a Labor-
party election leaflet, with black type em-
phasising what somebody considers salient
points.
It consists of 131 lines of type outside
the introduced subheadings. Compari-
son with the verbatim text of the broad-
cast, which it is supposed to “summarise,”
shows that, of these lines, 37 did not
figure in the broadcast. They consist
of matter which, had it been broad-
cast. would have made the session glar-
ingly political.
Matters not broadcast include some
thing about the Government’s “policy,”
though Mr. Chifley does not get the
credit. They also include the following
passage:
Some of the opposition of the banks to
sensible anti-depression policies during the
Great Depression might be explained away
on the ground that the wisdom of different
policies was then widely debated. But the
banks are even now sceptical of such
policies. Thus the Bank of New South
Wales in a recently published statement on
“Australia’s Changing Economy” shows
more concern for the inherent difficulties
in any (policy of full employment than about
the importance of maintaining full employ-
ment It is clear, however, that, in the
view of the banks, full employment stands
far lower in relation to other possibly
conflicting objectives than it does with the.
people of this country and with the Labor
Government.
Some of the other stuff included provides
a list of the amazing socialistic
and other deeds of the Chifley Gov-
ernment. In the leaflet the “cross-exami-
nation” during the broadcast is not
printed.
With this effusion the A.B.C. also
handed out two sheets announcing the
next two expositions of the series. One is
accompanied by a large pink pamphlet
in which there is much about “greed”
and exploitation, “wage-slaves” and the
“selfish capitalist primarily responsible
for the recent wide support given to poli-
tical Labor and the accession of
the party to overwhelming political
power.”
What the A.B.C. seems to be doing is
to create a widespread agency whereby
political leaflets of the Labor party will
be distributed with the aid of groups
formed through National Broadcasting
Commission machinery, the matter being
camouflaged by brigading it with a series
of broadcasts which are quite innocuous
and academic.
Even for the A.B.C. that seems to be
going a little far.
"Impressing" the Court.
Why the widespread strikes in militant
unions in Victoria, threatened some weeks
ago against the State Government’s
Essential Services Act, were called off is
now becoming clear.. Not only was the
Victorian Premier ready to proclaim the
Act, a prospect that severely restrained
the Melbourne Trades Hall Council and
the A.C.T.U., but the unions concerned
were being directed according to pre-
arranged strike tactics.
The strikes are being called on now
under corrected direction, The militants
THE DOCTORS WHO DIFFER.
“While Senator McKenna, nominal sponsor of the ‘free-medicine’ legislation, is in favor
of meeting the medical profession half-way. Mr. Chifley has said that the Government has a
fight on its hands, and that ‘someone is going to get hurt.’”
“Don’t you think, Dr. Chifley, that cutting his head off would be rather a too
drastic piece of surgery?”
mouths The prospect of another 30s.
or 355. on the basic wage, on top of
current quarterly increases (now reach-
ing to ss. a time), will throw every
State Budget into confusion and
State business undertakings into bank-
ruptcy. The leader of the unions in the
preliminaries to the case already begun
—the noting of appearances for parties—
is the Communist McPhillips, of the
Ironworkers’ executive. He objected to
State Governments being represented by
counsel, but graciously consented not to
oppose the Federal Government’s being
so represented. On that question the
court was to give its decision as this
issue went to press.
Another Test for McGirr.
A nark proffers some current history:
The effect of an election campaign on N.S.W.
Premier McGirr is automatic and invariable.
He fixes Ms eyes straight ahead of him and
beholds a future—under “Labor” rule, ot
course —of a brightness unsullied by any cloud.
At the same time he gazes through the back ot
his neck at a past wherein the yoke of the
parties at present in Opposition was on the
shoulders of the people, who groaned under a
tyranny unequalled since the time ot tne
Pharaohs.
He put on the same old record in opening
his party’s campaign in the Concord by-election.
He visualised the country entering “an era ot
unprecedented prosperity,” provided of course
it stuck to “Labor,” whose programmes for
“rural electricity, water-conservation and closer-
settlement are directed towards improving the
conditions of all sections of the community.”
Dazzled by the vision of prosperity ahead of
him the prophet apparently forgot that he had
been a Minister of the Lang Government in
1931 and 1932 —the worst period of the depres-
sion—or perhaps he was merely hoping Ms
listeners had forgotten it. .
McGirr said much the same thing m his
policy speech for the general election two years
ago on the celebrated occasion when he prom-
ised to build 90,000 homes in three years—a
statement he has since vainly attempted to
explain away. Another McGirr promise was
to “modernise and supplement existing tram
services” by adding “250 modern, streamlined,
silent-running corridor trams.” These were to
be “added with all haste.” Possibly the fact
that they were to be silent-running explains
why no more has been heard of them. Road
transport was to benefit to the extent of 1000
new buses. As for the railways, the country
was promised “modem locomotives, up-to-date
rolling-stock, additional express-trains and other
innovations.” Whether the “other innovations”
were intended to include the curtailed services
which, thanks to chronic coal-shortages have
become a permanent feature of the railways,
only McGirr can say. Possibly the term also
included the increased freights and fares which
followed the return of the “Labor” Government.
“Labor” lost five seats at the election. A
year later the 90,000 homes were a long, long
way behind schedule. Npr had the other
McGirr promises borne fruit. Then came the
Coogee by-election, at which the Opposition
mgde an issue of the Government’s failure to
take a firm hand with Communists. This brought
from McGirr another back-of-the-neck glimpse
of history. He maintained that when the
U.A.P. was in power, from 1932 to 1941,
more Communists were created in N.S.W.
than in the history of the State. This was
due to the degradation, starvation and
poverty brought on the people oy the
Government of the Statei
It would seem that the electors of Coogee
were not impressed by the picture, or by the
danger of a repetition. They returned a Liberal
member, whereupon McGirr complained that
the by-election had revealed
the power of money in all its stark naked-
ness. Paid hirelings for weeks had gone
from door to door and elsewhere maligning
and traducing Labor’s stalwarts. By this
means money-power had been able to pre-
vail over the will of the people.
Two more months went by, and “Labor”
faced another by-election. This was Kogarah,
which Currey, V.C., had retained by 3732 votes
at the 1947'election. The community was still
feeling the pinch of coal shortages and the
by-election was fought in an atmosphere of
restrictions on gas and power. McGirr’s Health
Minister, Kelly, felt that it was unfair of the
Opposition to mention this on the hustings.
He said “the press and the Liberal party are
drawing mundane affairs into this election to
confuse the issue.”
Kelly’s leader agreed, apparently, that an
election campaign should be fought on a
celestial rather than an earthly plane. His
contribution was:—
The Labor party’s opponents have intro-
duced matters quite alien to the issues
involved. Canards have been circulated
and facts wilfully distorted and misrep-
resented by a powerful press, with powerful
political and business backing.
Nevertheless he was not daunted by the
frightful forces of the enemy. “Today’s vote,”
he said in his final message, “will show how
they have failed.”
In the result, the previous “Labor” majority
was converted to a deficit of 822.
Electors will cast their votes for the Concord
by-election on Saturday. Carlton, the late
member, held it by 1152 votes in 1947. Like
Currey, he was a popular man with a large
personal following. Moloney, who aspires to
step into his shoes, will have an uphill fight
unless something has happened in the past
eight months to reverse the trend revealed in
Coogee and Kogarah. And despite McGirr’s
vision of “an era of unprecedented prosperity,”
and his schemes for “improving the conditions
of all sections of the community,” nothing has
happened.
The housing shortage is still with us. Com-
munist influence on the industrial movement is
as potent as ever and the coal-famine makes
power-blackouts a regular feature of the life
of the community. Not that McGirr considers
that a reflection on his administration. Far
from it. Employing his back-of-the-neck tech-
nique, he sees in it a Liberal plot to cripple
“Labor’s” chances at the by-election.
All things considered, perhaps it would be
wiser for McGirr to add Concord to the list of
seats to be regained at the next general election
and to concentrate on the Cobar by-election to
be held on the same day. The late Mark
Davidson held Cobar for “Labor” for over
thirty years, was unopposed in 1947, and at the
previous election polled nearly three times as
many votes as Ms opponent, a Lang-Labor
man. Cobar is a long way from Sydney, and
the evidence of “Labor” misrule may not be
so obvious as in Concord.
The Paths of Glory. .
An example of how “democracy” pro-
duces “equality” for all in Canberra is
Mr. Chifley’s decision to allow Dr. Eyatt
to accept a Grand Cordon of the Legion
of Honor from France’s shaky Ministry.
Mr. Chifley, answering Major-General
Rankin, said that Dr. Evatt’s acceptance
of the bauble is not in defiance of “Labor”
principles, notwithstanding that his Gov-
ernment has sedulously refrained from
granting honors to private citizens, no
matter how distinguished. He explained
solemnly that the Government had never
prevented members of the fighting forces
from accepting honors for their part in
operational services, but that “it would
not recommend the granting of certain
foreign decorations.”
Bunkum! Australian generals (have
been treated with a mean and nasty
shabbiness. The Commander-in-Chief
was not even called to Parliament to re-
ceive its thanks, and the King was not
advised to grant the knighthoods to Army
and Corps commanders which are nor-
mally their due after the kind of opera-
tions in which they had been engaged.
Chief of Staff of the Australian Army
during the danger period of the Pacific
War, General Northcott, now Governor
of N, S. Wales, was sent to Japan to
take command of the British Common-
wealth Occupation Forces under General
MacArthur. He was the first Australian
officer to command such a force and to
represent the British Commonwealth, in-
cluding Britain, Canada, S. Africa and
India, in that way.
When he left the command of his
40,000 troops to become Governor of
New South Wales, on the selection of a
“Labor” Government General Mac-
Arthur wished to confer a high Ameri-
can decoration' on him.
It is a source of great grievance with
U.S. officers in Tokyo that, after it had
been made generally known that this was
being arranged, and after General Mac-
Arthur had conveyed his intention to the
recipient of the proposed honor, the
Chifley Government banned the honor.
General MacArthur was virtually
snubbed.
Even the Prime Minister, suave and
specious as ho is, could scarcely justify
the distinction drawn between General
Northcott’s kind of service and Dr.
Evatt’s kind of service. The only differ-
ence which the ordinary eye can detect is
that one candidate for honors was a
“Labor” politician and the other wasn’t.
Did Ben Tell Ben?
Fifth week of a drama still drav/ing
“capacity” audiences: — _
Though sittings were curtailed, more remark-
able evidence was given in Sydney last week at
the inquiry into E. J. Ward’s association witn.
transactions in New Guinea timber rights and
imports of Swedish typewriters. In particular,
more was heard about Ray Parer’s sworn asser-
tion, made the previous week, that in June,
1947, upwards of six months before Ward naa
his showdown with Garden, his bosom pal for
many years, and communicated with the Crown
Law authorities, Parer’s brother Leo “went to
Canberra and told the Minister of Customs,
Senator Ben(jamin) Courtice, that we [the
Farrell-Garden-Ray Parer syndicate] had re-
ceived money and that I suspected a bribe had
beln passed to Ward.”
In the box again, Ray Parer put it this
way
Since my conspiracy trial, another
brother, Vincent, told me Leo told Senator
Courtice all about these matters. Senator
Courtice said to Leo he could not afford
to carry the information himself, so he took
it to Mr. Benedict) Chifley immediately.
This has since been confirmed by Vincent
in conversation with Senator Courtice.
Himself called as a witness, Leo Parer gave
the date of his meeting with the Minister ot
Customs as June 5, 1947; time, 2 p.m.
giving Fanrell as his authority, had informed
him that Garden paid “some money over ’ to
Urquhart for Ward, and Senator Courtice
confided that “senior members of the party,
particularly Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt, were
not very keen about Ward.” It was from
brother Vincent that he, Leo, learned that
Senator Courtice had “immediately taken the
information” to the P.M.
Proceeding, Leo said that often at Canberra
he had seen Mr. Calwell and Senator McKenna
“about other matters.” And “when the case
broke” he wrote to Senator Courtice, saying,
“I” [had] “always voted Labor, but if Rdy
became involved I would have no alternative
but to release the information.” The “threat
to Senator Courtice” (and he might also have
“written to Mr. Calwell”) was concerned with an
unsuccessful effort to secure the retention m
Australia, for use in his X-ray-outfit business,
of a German, Junge, interned but ‘ not a Nazi.
To say it was “a type of blackmail” was going
The Parer brothers’ references to Mr. Chifley
and Senator Courtice brought no reply from
either of those gentlemen. Perhaps they
saving up their rephes for the inquiry,
would have been in order for Mr. Court
to make a statement when the New Gui e
Timber Rights Commission Bill was g°' 8
through the Senate, ovef the protest of Oppos -
tion-leader Cooper that it failed to e . nsur ri
proper investigation of the relations between
Ward and Urquhart; the late Senator Keanes
successor chose, or was ordered, to remain
silent. .. . . ,
Edward Farrell, who had the receiving and
handling of the £50,000 from Hancock and
Gore, and whose admissions as to his “record
—concealed for years, apparently with perfect
ease, from several Commonwealth departments
with which he had relations as head of the
syndicate—had been a highlight of the previous
(Continued at foot of next page.)


iiiiir"
i
Mp*' .
Fop your throat’s sake
CRAVEN'S'
Always reliable
Obtainable in
10’s & 20’s
V-
A
8905 E-K
CARRERAS LIMITED « OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUAlly
week’s proceedings, was sufficiently recovered to
be examined and cross-examined again. Early in
the piece he repeated the substance of an alleged
talk with Ward outside Ward’s office, declaring
that, when he introduced himself to the Minister
and mentioned Bulolo Valley timber and
Qarden, Ward said “I know all about if,”
adding that Farrell was to deal with Garden
and “follow out carefully any instructions he
gives you.” Ray Parer’s statement was that
Farrell had informed him in 1945 Ward was
“in the syndicate” and was to get part of
£lOO,OOO, and had overcome his qualms later
by saying Ward had withdrawn. But Farrell
swore last Wednesday, in reply to Ward’s
counsel, that he had never heard it alleged
that money had gone to Ward or anyone for
Ward until “the first court proceedings,”
January, 1948.
One of the departments of which Farrell
had the run was Army Inventions Directorate.
R. M. Service, then in charge of the Sydney
office, said he had “thought Garden was rep-
resenting Mr. Ward” and hadn’t thought it
“peculiar” that Garden was a member of the
syndicate, or that he himself should place his
Government office and notepaper at the dis-
posal of parties to the deal for “Government
conferences.” Service admitted having had “a
loan of £200” from Farrell “almost immediately
repaid,” and having got plane priorities for
Farrell, H, R. Hancock, Forshaw (to whom
Farrell lent £4OOO, repaid by Hancock and
Gore), and Brisbane solicitor Biggs; and to the
list Alfred Crammond, then Brisbane head of
Army Inventions Directorate, added Ray Parer.
Crammond made the actual arrangements, being
obliged in the process to “off-load important
persons, one a high police officer.” Service had
introduced Farrell to him as a person of distinc-
tion, “a glorified King’s Messenger,” and Farrell
had not only introduced Crammond in Sydney
to Garden, described as “a very important per-
son who wielded tremendous power behind the
throne and could get anything,” but offered him
a loan of £2OOO. “Aghast” at this proposal
Crammond “wondered if he was off his rocker,
and mentioned the matter to Service, who said
“He has the money all right.” Crammond was
not interested.
At the end of Thursday’s proceedings the
inquiry was adjourned to 10 a.m. today. I 1
was not clear at the week-end whose testimony
would be taken then or when Ward would be
called.
POLITICAL POINTS
All the fuss about the “changes” in
the Soviet Government is so much straw
in the wind. It merely represents the con-
firmation of certain acting positions as
permanent and congeals a situation which
has been tentative since the assassination
of Zhdanov last year. It matters little
in Russia who occupies what Ministry.
What does matter is who is on the gov-
erning body of the Communist party,
which really makes policy and governs
the country. This is so much so that
until Russia attacked Germany in 1941
Stalin held only a minor office in the so-
called Cabinet, but governed openly as
secretary-general of the Communist
party. Since it would have been awkward
for him to deal with other Powers offi-
cially on that basis, he gave himself and
Molotov and a few others some official
titles.
The genius who thought up the 24-year
plan for fostering shipbuilding did not
go far enough. If that age-limit on ships
will give Australia a flourishing ship-
building industry, a 12-year limit would
give us one twice as big and just as
flourishing. And if we want shipyards we
can really be proud of, why not pension
off all ships at the end of one year, or,
better still, immediately they leave the
yard?
With by-elections pending in N.S.W.
every State “Labor” man who'opens his
mouth proclaims that unemployment can
only be caused by the Liberal party.
Yet Canberra’s E. J. Holloway has just
told the Reps, that losses in coal and
steel production Will affect “practically
every field of employment.” Isn’t that
just what almost every Opposition mem-
ber has been saying for months, if not
years?
Last Thursday Caucus discussed the
latest plan for coercing doctors into
accepting the Free Medicine and National
Health scheme. A notable absentee from
the discussion was Senator McKenna, the
scheme’s alleged progenitor, who was
down in Hobart at the conference of
the Tasmanian A.L.P. Possibly his
appearance in Hobart was vital to the
success of the conference; possibly he
felt it would be sporting to allow his
colleagues to talk the thing over unem-
barrassed by his presence. Or perhaps
he feels the free-medicine plan has done
his political career enough harm already.
Sir Stafford Cripps has complained to
Prime Minister Attlee of his policy being
embarrassed by incautious speeches by
junior Ministers. In Australia it is the
senior Ministers who most frequently
speak out of turn, with Calwell and
Ward dead-heating for the title of prin-
cipal brick-dropper.
Patriotism and the desire to serve are
not confined to one side of politics. In
December it was announced that the
N.S.W. executive of the “Labor” party
had “endorsed” 138 candidates for pre-
selection ballots for the House of Repre-
sentative elections and 71 for the Senate.
No information,was disclosed as to the
number of willing patriots who did not
get past the endorsement comrffittee, ex-
cept that Maxie Falstein had been
dropped. For Falstein’s seat, Watson,
there were 17 party men eager for the
chance to give their time and energy—
or part of it —to the serviceY»f the country
for a mere £l5OO a year plus gold pass,
pension rights and other etceteras. Last
week Liberal nominations for the 25
N.S.W. metropolitan seats were an-
nounced. Again the figure was 138,
North Sydney heading the field with 20
contenders.
McGirr has obviously decided to adopt
the role of a man who doesn’t mince his
words. Electioneering at Cobar, he told
his audience that while the Literal and
Country parties were in power in N.S.W.
“they were guilty of every crime in the
calendar.” The charge seems to be
slightly overdone. Does the McGirr in-
clude simony, mayhem, barratry, high
treason, bigamy, robbery with violence,
sly-grog selling and breaking and enter-
ing? Probably his real complaint against
them is that they were unlawfully on the
Parliamentary premises.
Mr. Chifley told his colleagues in
Canberra that they had “a fight” on
their hands with the doctors and “the
Government would not withdraw or lie
down.” Yet it has had plenty of prac-
tice in doing both when confronted by
Communists and “militant” union-
leaders.
The Opposition has been speaking
strongly on the Shipping Bill, but one
thing has been missing from their
speeches so far. They know that despite
the’ir opposition “Labor” has the numbers
to force the thing through. It is up to
Menzies and Fadden to say on behalf of
their parties “There are other ways of
encouraging the shipbuilding industry,
and if we are the Government after the
next elections this bill will be repealed.”
Molotov’s replacement by Vyshinsky as
Soviet Foreign Minister will not effect
any change in Australia’s foreign policy
—it will still be decided by the Waterside
Workers’ Federation.
The Central Queensland Coal Develop-
ment Co, Pty., Ltd., has been registered
in Brisbane to develop Blair Athol coal-
field. Asked about it by “Courier-
Mail,” Premier Hanlon said that “only
exploratory work was yet going on” and
“if the reports are satisfactory Power and
Traction Finance Co,, Ltd., will take over
the enterprise.” This is the company
said to have an agreement with Electric
Supply Corporation (Overseas), Ltd.,
about the Blair Athol franchise.
Britain’s Coal Board has told the
miners that they have received all the
concessions the industry can justify on
present output. The only way they can
get higher wages or better conditions is
by producing more coal. If our Coal
Board raked up enough courage to tell
the miners that “Fixer” Ashley would
be on the coalfields next day explaining
that the board was only joking.
Dr. Evatt has never gone on record as
an admirer of Kipling, but last week
he made a statement of which Rudyard
would have approved. Evatt told re-
porters in Delhi that he thought Burma
had made a mistake in leaving the
British Commonwealth and he “believed
that sooner or later she would return
to it.” From somewhere or other drifted
an echo, “Come you back, you British
soldier, come you back to Mandalay.”
All Opposition complaints about the
inadequacy of Australia’s security mea-
sures have been met by Chifley and Ded-
man with insistent assurances that all was
well and the situation absolutely under
control. Yet last week the Prime Minister
had to announce the appointment of a
South Australian Judge to “establish and
organise an Australian Security Service”
to augment, apparently, the present Com-
monwealth Security Branch. Chifley’s
explanation of the need for the change:
“A great increase in Australian security
tasks and responsibilities.”
Staggered by the colossal quantities of
cosmetics, alcoholic drinks, toilet articles
and other things obtained free under
the British National Health Scheme,
Aneurin Bevan, came down heavily—on
the doctors. He issued an order that any
doctor who issues a prescription for
things “which are not drugs or medicine”
will be liable to pay for them, On this
it is held there’ll be no more free brandy,
sherry, port, whisky, gin, champagne,
coffee, dried milk, meat, vegetable-ex-
tracts, sugar, soap or biscuits, Mr. Bevan
may have some bother if his officers have
to fight it in the courts. Webster defines
medicine as: “Any substance or prepara-
tion used in treating disease.” The
O.E.D. defines it as medicament, and
medicament as: “A substance used in
curative treatment.” But then Socialists
are never dismayed by either justice or
definitions.
Agonised note from N.Q. “Register”:
It seems incredible that, in the year 1949,
no major agricultural college exists in North
Queensland, nor even a university that
could include a Chair of Agriculture. So
little of the importance of the desperate
needs of the north can be impressed upon
the world of the south that not even a
comprehensive tropical agricultural research
station has been provided. This area of
the State must live on meagre promises—
which is the main reason the population of
Brisbane is swelling at the expense of rural
areas.
The 987th argument for a separate State
of North Queensland.
Mr. Pollard, Minister for Commerce
and Agriculture, has discovered a group
who “are aggravating centralisation of
population and industries in capital
cities.” Who are these terrible people?
“Large landholders,” who won’t volun-
tarily agree to Socialist Governments
cutting up their properties and are, in
the Pollard view, thereby responsible for
falling land production. Of the Socialist
planners who, by creating monstrous new
Government departments in the cities and
filling them with non-productive staff, Mr.
Pollard made no mention.
Invited to find out how “66 to 70
trucks and departmental buses” got
petrol to carry holiday-makers to a Can-
berra Trades and Labor Council picnic,
Mr, Dedman said he would ask Senator
Ashley and was “sure he Would have an
adequate explanation.” “The Fixer” can
always dig up an “explanation” for any-
thing—the question of adequacy is an-
other matter.
“Justice” is a word almost as fre-
quently maligned nowadays as demo-
cracy. When Brisbane’s tram- and bus-
employees staged a 24-hour strike last
week and threatened to repeat the dose
once in every seven days until their de-
mands were satisfied the secretary of their
union said: “The men are determined to
win ; to go to any length to convince the
Arbitration Court of the justice of their
claims,” The men’s claims may be per-
fectly just—that is for the Court to
decide—but surely the first duty of the
employees of a public utility is serve the
public? If they don’t do that then they
have no claim on anybody. On Monday
Brisbane again had to walk to work in
the interests of “justice.”
Pending in the High Court are two
cases against the Government by private
airlines. In one A.N.A. and Ansett’s
are challenging air-route charges fixed by
the Civil Aviation Department, and in
the other the issue is the right of the
Federal Government’s nationalised show,
T.A.A., to operate air services within a
State, There’s no doubt the. Chifley
Government is making a “golden age”
for the lawyers.
Four new city and nine new country
seats are to be created, by the Hanlon
Government in Queensland by a bill
introduced into the Brisbane Parliament
yesterday. It takes the numbers from
62 to 75, three more than the total when
the Moore Government cut out 10 seats
in 1931. The increase will necessitate
reduction in the country quotas, at least,
and the Hanlons are tipped to get over
this by establishing one quota for large
centres and another for underpopulated
ones. Present electoral quota is 10,000,
with a2O p.c. margin either way. Why
the State should need 13 more members,
at higher pay, could be answered in
various ways, and one is that this is the
Hanlon answer to the new-State move-
ment.
Along with their 13 new members,
Queenslanders also learned that they’re
to have a new Minister, got by splitting
Lands and Mines, now administered by
Foley, into two, probably with Moore
as the extra Minister. It will bring
the Cabinet up to 11. South Australia
manages on six.
There seems to be an incipient “Labor”
revolt in the Speck against Canberra
socialisation. Premier Cosgrove has
arraigned the 40-hour as a “premature”
blessing, Dr. Gaha (M.P. for Denison) is
leaving the House of Reps, in disillusion
about “Labor” government and especi-
ally the attempted coercion of doctors,
Dr. Turnbull (whose vote kept Cosgrove
in State office) is to stand for the Reps,
to uphold that dead horse “independent
‘Labor,’ ” and Senator McKenna,
Chifley’s maid-of-all-work, nearly lost his
place on Tassie’s “Labor” Senate ticket.
Even Chifley’s choice of the island State
for his Christmas holiday did not, it
seems, meet the local “Labor” situation.
What the loss on the Golden Age
Commonwealth Shipping Line will be
not even Jock Garden’s tame astrologer
would be prepared to forecast, but figures
recently dragged out of Senator Ashley
give some indication. For the three years
ended June 30, 1948, the losses on ships
owned, chartered or requisitioned by the
Commonwealth totalled £10,188,720.
This was a period of war-induced short-
age of tonnage and abnormally high
freight-rates. In similar circumstances
the original Commonwealth Line showed
a profit of £2,063,534 for the first three
years of its existence. That venture
finally foundered in a sea of red ink,
taking with it the accumulated profits and
a further £14,000,000 of the taxpayers’
money. The new venture has certainly
got away to a flying start.
In a half-page advertisement in Sydney
papers the “Major Electricity Generating
Authorities” announced on Monday that
“everyone can help to avoid blackouts,”
and went on to explain how the house-
wife, the industrial worker, the business-
man and the storekeeper could assist-
in every instance by cutting down their
consumption of power. No plea was
addressed to the miners upon whose
whim the whole supply of electricity
depends and who can, as they have
several times demonstrated, wipe out in a
day the savings of a month.


DROPPING A BRICK OR TWO.
"To the embarrassment of his ‘Labor' colleagues, Premier Cosgrove, of Tasmania, said last week: It makes one wonder, whom subsequent reaults
are summed up, whether the introduction of the 40-hour week was premature."


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
•r
“R.J.H.”: A recently-published Life of
Phil May recalls the artist’s visit to
Katoomba 60 years ago. The Bulletin
the following week depicted the
rush of visitors to the Carrington
Hotel—a battalion of them reaching from
the railway station to the pub—and an-
other sketch showed a team of bullocks
drawing a wagon along the main street.
Phil was the guest of Blamire Young, the
English master at Fletcher’s College, who
was also an artist. Blamire had his dig-
gings away from the main building down
in a corner facing the Bathurst road.
Most of the doors were the old-style
four-panel, and down the centre of one
was a full-length sketch of the
lanky Blamire. The inscription was
typical of Phil May: “Art is long but my
time here is short.” Blamire Young was
president of the local rifle-club and in-
vited the members along to his lodgings
to meet May. Each visitor was given a
clay churchwarden pipe, and shag tobacco
was provided. The older members were
tempted to try a mixture called English
punch, a potent concoction. The evening
was a glorious success, and although only
17 at the time the memory of it remains
with me still —at 77.
* * * *
“Mozzer”; * Adelaide is muttering
“We’ve been robbed” in protest over
two official 99.9 temperature recordings.
Citizens mildly accept heat around the
80s, languish during the 90s, but are
revitalised immediately the temperature
reaches the century. They are proud of
their average of five centuries a summer ;
and don’t argue against statements that
Adelaide is the hottest capital in the
world. With only one century recorded
for this summer prestige was sagging
until a check with the meteorologist dis-
closed that the more accurate Steven-
son’s double-louvre exposure-screen had
been installed in place of the old-
fashioned Greenwich screen. It has given
up to 1.3 degrees lower recordings than
the previous one. Century-minded Crow-
eaters will suffer deeper infliction when
all records are adjusted by this new
standard.
* * * *
“Plop”; A friend tells me that in the
act of streaking past a tram the driver
of the taxi which was carrying him had
to jam on his brakes to avoid entering a
bus through its back. There was another
passenger in the cab, and he immediately
asked if he could get out, remarking that
although his sense of adventure was not
yet extinct, he had one or two mouths to
feed at home. After he had gone my
friend asked the taxi-driver why it was
that this man, who he knew owned a
car himself, should tend to panic when
being driven by someone else. “He’s a
goat, like lots of others,” explained the
driver. “The reason a back-seat driver
puts on a turn is because his angle of
sight is altogether different from the
bloke’s behind the wheel* Any car-
driver knows that, and they’ve got no
excuse performing like they do. Do you
drive?” My friend shook his head.
“There you are, yet you didn’t turn a
hair back there. You’re a bloke who
trusts the driver —you’re happy, and
you’re sensible.” They reached my
friend’s destination. He got out and paid
up. As the taxi moved off he took a
quick look. “Taking that cab from
front to back,” he told me, “one head-
light was broken, the grille was pushed
in at the front, the body was scratched
all along one side, one of the door-
handles was missing, and so was the
thing you step on. Believe me, I turned
a lot of hairs then.”
*** • ♦
“Clayfield”: The craze for modernity
which gripped the world between the two
wars has brought a reaction. With two
fights in a lifetime the public isn’t so
crazy about this modem world after all.
One jam-manufacturer who formerly
prided himself on his streamlined pro-
duction-lines now labels every jar of
jam “home-made in our own factory by
2000 healthy Australians.”
* * * ♦
“Lao-dah”; Hainan, reported to have
been captured by Chinese Communists,
has always had radical tendencies, and
was a thorn in the side of the Manchus
when it was ruled by a celebrated pirate
named Koxinga, the son of an expatriate
Chinese tailor, who acquired a fleet of
3000 junks with which he supported
the Ming emperors by harrying the
Manchu invaders in coast raids. On the
death of his father Koxinga expanded his
navy and raised an army which captured
Formosa from the Dutch after an impres-
“Does this mean we're through, Enid?"
sive amount of slaughter. He extended
his empire to the Philippines and parts
of southern Asia, defeated the Manchus
in a naval battle waged partly in the
midst of a typhoon, but was killed by the
Dutch after two years as King of
Formosa. His empire tumbled to pieces,
but Hainan remained independent
until Sun Yat-sen’s Republicans put on
a revolution there in 1914, The island’s
chief article of export has always been
domestic servants, just as Portuguese
Goa’s has been stewards. Most of the
“boys.” who are bawled for from long-
chairs in Singapore and Malaya are
Hainanese. Excellent servants, at the same
time they are curiously independent, and
they are always found banded together
in a secret society or union, and any tuan
who incurs their displeasure might just
as well pack up and leave the country.
* * * •
“Alpha”: Popped into the railway to
drop a few books back to the Public
Library. Absently the parcels clerk
tossed the package on to the scales and
demanded one-and-six instead of the
standard “zack.” “They’re always six-
pence,” I protested. He stuck to his
guns and the overweight, but the station
cat spoiled a promising argument. It
yawned, stretched and then vacated the
bottom shelf of the two-tier scale, bring-
ing the volumes back to normal. Wonder
how many innocent mugs were caught
while puss napped?
* * * *
“Jasby”: I have found the perfect
betting system. At least, the man who
gave it to me claims it is perfect. I can-
not disclose his name, but he has no ob-
jection to my letting the Australian public
into it. The beauty of the system is
that you don’t have to study form, seek
the society of horsey men, read news-
paper tips or go to the races. Just
read the results in your Sunday
paper—this can be dispensed with
if desired —and bank the cheque your
bookmaker sends you each week. What
do you back? Well, you have a little
something—agreed beforehand —on every
winner. Of course, you have a little
something on a lot of other horses as
well, but that’s no trouble. Simplified,
what you do is this. Arrange with your
S.P. bookie to let you have a pound on
the winner of each race, provided you
also have a quid on every horse above
him in the weights. If the topweight
comes home you get a skinner; if the
nag at the bottom of the list wins you’ve
backed the field, and nothing but long
odds can square you on that race. Fol-
lowed over a whole meeting the system
can’t lose, but don’t take my word for it.
Check the Flemington and Randwick
results for a few weeks and you’ll see.
Then ring your bookie and go right
ahead. Just one more thing. If your
bookie takes you on you might send me
his address. I’d like to get in touch with
him. So would my own bookie.
* * * *
“H.G.S.”: An establishment similar to
the washerwoman’s paradise described by
“Tilba Tiga” (B. 23/2/’49) is to be
opened soon in an Adelaide suburb.
Patrons of the near-by pub will be able to
test the potency of its brew by trying to
twirl their tongues around the name
splashed across the shop-front of the new
business. It’s to be a Laundretaria.
* * * *
“B. A, Ker”: Man’s inhumanity to
man! Three or four years ago I wrote
a par. concerning the crib-hand on a
tram-ticket numbered 55555. I’d com-
pletely forgotten it until, elated at winning
a radio prize through a ticket of that
number, “Mullum” handed me a couple
of metaphorical beers (B, 9/2/’49). Then,
just as I was mentally downing those
delicious mugs. “Wunfrisnob” knocked
’em out of my hand with: “These fel-
lows claiming their tram-ticket crib-
hands ought to be suppressed or certi-
fied” (B. 16/2/’49). Even that my noble
nature could forgive—if he hadn’t gone
on to toy with the possibility of some-
one getting a hand with six fives. Such
a thought brands him as a man beyond
all redemption; a tram-traveller whose
soul has never risen above reading the
advertisements for cough mixture or the
evils of alcohol. To think that there are
still people in Sydney who don’t know
that tram-tickets do not go above five
numerals! It’s enough to make a bloke
put that last fare he scaled in the honesty-
box,
» * * *
“Pat C.”: Evidence given before the
Royal Commission on Westralian police
administration has raised grins from
Albany to Wyndham, though those on
the dials of the blokes most concerned
are rather wry. One constable admitted he
was a frequent visitor to a dice game,
on one occasion being accompanied by
his sergeant, whose bets he placed be-
cause it would have been “indiscreet”
for the three-striper to place them per-
sonally. His visits, the constable pointed
out, were made in a civilian capacity and
he always wore “civvies.” When, as a
member of a police team, he took part
in a raid on the school he wore uniform.
His Honor commented: “I suppose when
you assist in raids you say ‘Now, boys,
this is official’?”
* * * *
“Pitt St.”: The thing might have been
chopped down by the time this is printed,
but the argument of the fig-tree which
was accused of obscuring the War
Memorial in Sydney’s Hyde Park gave
the city something to talk about while it
lasted. It stands—or stood —in the
middle of a wide vista which looked down
to the memorial from St. James’s Square,
and to some eyes softened the outlines
of the memorial, to others obscured its
outlines. It seems to me that it
would have beep interesting to seek
the beginnings of the dispute and prove
some argument or other about mass
psychology. Who, for instance, first
muttered to somebody that the tree should
come out? Who took up the matter
from there? Was that first critic sincere
or merely passing an idle comment?
And, since everybody can’t stand in St.
James’s Square and look down the vista,
why not pull down the buildings in
Elizabeth- and Park-streets which obscure
the Memorial to anyone on the Castle-
reagh-Park-street comer? Don’t let’s be
half-hearted about exposing the memorial
to all points of view!.
* * * *
“Plip”; The driver of the lorry parked
in the laneway shot out of his cabin very
nimbly for such a heavyweight; the
other driver who, in trying to pjiss, had
scraped the stationary truck, thrust his
head out of his window and exhibited
cauliflower ears and a nose like a pikelet.
All this I observed through the door of
an adjacent coffee-house, and as I hadn’t
seen an honest fight for some time, and
the prospects here looked decidedly
bright, I drained my cup and hurried
out to watch. Both drivers stood facing
each other, removed their hats and shirts
and carefully laid them in their cabins.
After a few words they shaped up and
attacked with vigor—no, not each other,
but a consignment of crates that filled
both their vehicles and which had to be
passed through the back door of a near-by
building.
# * * *
“Bo”: Having to stay overnight
as I had done on other occasions
when travelling through the district,
I booked in at O’Murphy’s Railway
Hotel. It was around five o’clock,
and O’M. and his henchman, with froth
from the overflowing suds lapping
around their boot-tops, were dash-
ing hither and yon with schooners
and middies. Firmly 1/grasped the press
cutting I took from my pocket and
advanced to the bar. “O’Murphy,” I
said firmly. “I’m having no more of
corned bullock and a vegetable I have
long suspected to be Scotch thistle. Nor
a dark-brown fluid that smells something
like cocoa, tastes faintly like coffee and
is probably hot water with a dash of
wattle-bark. Here” —I waved the cutting
in front of his nose —“is my authority
for demanding at last a decent feed. It’s
a report that the New South Wales Execu-
tive Council has approved regulations to
provide that meals at all licensed hotel
premises shall be of proper variety and
quality, and any hotelkeeper breaking
’em can be up for a fifty-pound fine! Now
I want roast” Bung’s roar of brutal
laughter drowned my words. “Grub’s on
at six,” he said. “Choice o’ goat
or galah, with pumpkin. Take it or
leave it. Now mizzle off —I’m busy.”
I took galah. It would have seemed too
much like cannibalism to have tackled
the goat.
* « * *
“Muskeen”; I’ll stick to my guns over
that yarn about the swallowed pearls (B.
16/2/’49). My authority was nothing if
not circumstantial. Great care was taken
that the emetic should be sufficiently
strong, and several doses, which gave the
thief “many doleful retchings and strain-
ings, besides suffering infinite pangs,” were
necessary to recover 31 of the gems, and
still more doses, which put him in a
“mighty torment,” were administered be-
fore the 32nd made its appearance.
* ♦ * *
“Clooter”: I see by the papers that the
U.S.A. is enlisting women in the regular
Marine Corps, and that the first platoon
of them has begun training in South
Carolina, and the first 50 of them are
going to Marine H.Q. in Washington and
’Frisco or to recruiting offices in other
parts. By now, of course, most of us
accept the woman soldier in war —even
to her taking part in actual combat, as
A.T.S. and W.A.A.C.S. did in the air-
battle for Britain —but the new concept
continues to pose some arresting ques-
tions. If, for instance, a batch of these
skirted U.S. Marines should visit this
country, will our papers be allowed to
enthuse over them as “leathernecks ?
* * * *
“Melbn”: Victoria’s Full Court recently
had to decide whether a caravan was or
was not a building within the meaning
of the by-laws of a bayside municipality
in Melbourne. Subject of the dispute was
a timber, fibro-cement and corrugated-
iron contraption which possessed some
of the features of a wheeled van and some
of the features of a booth for the sale oi
viands. The bow of the structure rested
on bricks and its supplies for juice tor
lighting and refrigeration came from tne
town mains. The owner called it a kiosK.
The council ordered its demolition, bu
the Lower Court said “Nay.” On appeal
the Full Court decided in the council 5
favor, so bang goes the caravan.
judgment will have interest for hundreds
of citizens who live in old cable-trams m
remote paddocks, and for those whose
dwelling-places are railway carnages one
the property of the Victorian Railways.
A BRAWLING COCKPIT.
“Mr. Churchill, speaking at Brussels, said that
U.N.O. would be a failure and a mockery without
large regional security units. Already the armed
power of Soviet Russia had reduced it to a brawling
cockpit.”
A brawling cockpit! Here you have the mtni-
Mum of, descriptiveness employed to raise
U.N.O. before your eyes. I’ll bet a guinea,
A guinea to a gooseberry, spare me days!
That not a statesman in the world but
Could pack so much in such a pungent
phrase.
A brawling cockpit! Pity if it’s true,
But that’s the way it looks to outward view.
Per contra, we’ve the polished elocution
Of Evatt lingering in memory yet
To stress there’s no alternative solution
For all the troubles that mankind has met
To U.N.0.; it’s the only institution
Accessible that has a chance to get .
The world upon its feet. Doc. tells us so,
But is he an impartial witness, though?
Think of the boomed and busted League of
Nations,
Designed to gather far-flung lands like chicks
Beneath her wings, compose their altercations,
Iron-out their problems and their boundaries
fix,
Finally, keep them in their proper stations.
What in the end did it accomplish? Nix.
Where is it now, for all that grandiose talk?
Gone with the dodo and the vanished auk.
A world tribunal with some punch about it
Would surely be a notable event,
MSans to enforce its rulings—who can doubt
it?—
Being a necessary element.
Better to try and get along without it
Than have it go the way the last one went.
If e’er another Golden Age befalls
It won’t be hurried up by cockpit brawls.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“E. & 0.E.”: “Gadfly’s” statement that
the monologues of Milton Hayes (B.
16/2/’49) were well-known before 1914
is corroborated by Kipling. In Something
of Myself he wrote of his imitators, in
“versus of the sort that are recited,” and
went on:
An Edinburgh taxi-driver in the War told
me that they were much in vogue among
the shelters, and was honored to meet me,
their author. Afterwards, I found that they
were running neck-and-neck with “Gunga
Din” in the military go-as-you-pleases and
on the lower deck, and were always ascribed
to my graceful hand. They were called
The Green Eye of the Little Yellow God.”
They described aji English colonel and his
daughter at Khatmandhu in Nepal where
there was a military mess; and her lover
of the name of “mad Carew,” which
rhymed comfortably. The refrain was more
or less “And the green-eyed yellow idol
looking down.” It was luscious and ram-
pant, with a touch, I thought, of the
suburban toilet-club school favored by the
late Mr. Oscar Wilde. Yet, and this to me
was the devil of it, it carried for one
reader an awesome suggestion of “but for
the grace of there goes Richard
Baxter. Whether the author had done it
out of his own head, or as an inspired
parody of the possibilities latent in a
fellow-craftsman, I do not know. But I
admired him.
* * ♦ *
Caley”; Several insGfices of people
being killed by spiders have occurred
lately, but I know of one case where a
spider saved a man’s life. It was during
an air-raid on Darwin in ’42. When
the alarm sounded a team of us, Yanks
and Aussies, snuggled down into two
trenches. A latecomer stopped at a third
trench, peered in, then made a dash for
ours. He squeezed in and explained
“There’s a gold-darned horned spider as
big as my fist sitting on its web across
the trench. I hate those things.” We
grinned and tried to burrow through the
bottom of the trench when a big one
landed near by. When the raid ended we
walked over to look at his spider, but
it was gone. So was the trench.
♦ * * «
“Zakp”; One can imagine no more
vivid example of the beneficial effect of
a firm decision by one centralised
authority than that of the latest decree
promulgated by Stalin, by which he
slashed prices of food and clothing. How
different from the muddling under Demo-
cracy! How happy has the fortunate
dweller in the Workers’ Paradise been
“Serves her right—she WILL rush on late doing up her zippers."
made by a simple stroke of Joe’s English-
made bail-point pen, the design of which
the low English pinched from the original
Russian invention! Under the amended
prices, butter, when it appears some time
this year in those State stores allotted
to the herd—as distinct from those re-
served for the exclusive use of party
officials —will at a mere 85s. per pound
be within the reach of everyone, or at
least the first 10 in the queue. With
what joy will a smiling Comrade work
it out that, instead of costing him six-
months’ wages, a suit—when one becomes
available at the end of the seventh Five-
Year plan—can be got for working only
24j weeks! That will mean he’ll save
If weeks’ work. What will the happy
toiler do with the leispre time thus made
available? Naturally he’ll want to leave
his factory bench so that he may com-
fortably contemplate his happy state and
also ensure himself a long holiday in
the bracing air of a Siberian tourist re-
sort, Totting up what they would have
saved had there been anything to buy is
expected to displace thumbing noses at
Joe’s photo, as the most popular of
Moscow’s indoor sports.
* * * *
“D.E.S.”: It happened on Labuan a
few days after the landing. Though the
surviving Japs were supposed to be safely
bottled up a couple of miles inland, our
sleep had been disturbed for two or three
nights by trigger-happy sentries in an
adjoining unit blazing away at shadows.
On the fourth morning, an hour before
daylight, we were again awakened by
spasmodic shots. The major arose from
his stretcher in seething wrath. Getting
the generating-set switched on, he stood
with hands on hips ip the full glare of
the lights of the workshop-truck, faced the
general direction of the shots and really
went to town. He was just getting his
second wind when the zip of bullets and
the unmistakable stutter of a Nip
l.m.g. ma.de him realise that it would
take more than words to stop that par-
ticular noise. With the abrupt ending of
his address and equally smart dousing of
the lights the party really started. Any-
way, he still maintains that the 40-odd
Nips who had sneaked past the infantry
and come down to do a Banzai act on the
beachhead were cleaned up without too
much loss on our side by virtue of the
fact that his voice woke up everybody on
the island.
* * * *
“Old Junee”; The Glasgow Orpheus
Choir insists that its patrons apply for
concert tickets on a prescribed form.
Over 17,000 applied for tickets for the
last series of concerts, but the Orpheus
could sing to only 12,000, so 5000 appli-
cants were passed out in a preferential
ballot. That is a regular happening.
Thirty years ago it was suggested that
Sir Hugh S. Roberton, founder and con-
ductor, should increase the price of ad-
mission to get over the difficulty. His
reply was' unmusical and unprintable.
When the last Australian Test team was
in Scotland Bradman, Lindwall and Miller
abandoned their golf to attend an
Orpheus concert in Edinburgh. Bradman
and Lindwall had tickets; Miller had
none. He was given a seat on the red-
carpeted stairs —together with hundreds
of other international visitors who could
not be excluded without discourtesy. He
sat entranced throughout. “I didn’t know
half the words,” he told the “Daily
Express,” “but what lovely melodies come
from the Hebrides! And that funny little
man with, the white beard [Sir Hugh S.
Roberton] is a magician with his hands.”
Hugh, jnr., of the N.S.W. Farmers and
Settlers’ Association, says that something
must have gone wrong with the works
or Keith Miller. “When I last saw my
father he was 6ft. high and had a flowing
red beard, and there was more than magic
in his hands, as any of his seven sons
could tell Miller.”
“Bagot”: Effects of the pickpocket
scenels in “Oliver Twist” on juvenile minds
(B. 2/2/’49)? I read Dickens’s book
when I was 12, and Fagin’s teachings
made such an impression that I tried the
art on members of the’family. Parental
objections sept me out to experiment with
school cobbers, and we practised on
each other for weeks. It soon developed
into a game wherein we paid penalties of
marbles or cigarette-cards to “victims”
who detected us removing their handker-
chiefs, knives or pennies; the “stolen”
property was always handed back. Some
of us acquired considerable skill; the
classic performance being the picking of
the head-teacher’s tobacco-pouch from
his hip-pocket and its still more daring
return later on. The boy who pulled off
that job collected dozens of marbles in,
tributes from his admiring colleagues.
“This dressing for dimer is becoming a burden."
Eventually the craze died out, and as far
as I am aware, all my pals grew into
honest citizens. Myself? Well, I was
once fined five bob for jay-walking.
* * * *
“Dekko”: George Matheson’s screen-
ing of moving-pictures in 1900 (B.
9/2/’49) may have been the first in Mel-
bourne, but it was certainly not the first
in Australia. In 1896 or 1897 an exhibi-
tion was given in a Sydney shop by a
man named Seesta. Also in the latter
year Dan Ellis showed movies in a Sydney
basement and at Brisbane’s old Theatre
Royal.
* * * *
“Wusslean”: Until this week our
greengrocer used to bring with him in his
van a youth whose sole job, apart from
holding the reins while the boss rang
the doorbells, was to write down the
charges on a slate as his master called
them out and add them up. Why the
greengrocer needed a clerk at all remains
a mystery. He turned up the other day
without his assistant, and to my inquiry
said: “Oh, young Bill’s tossed it in. I
was paying him four quid a week, but
he asked for six quid, and when I knocked
him back he left.” Bill’s age? Accord-
ing to the greengrocer, 14 and a half.
* ♦ * *
“George” (Hong Kong): The follow-
ing cable was received by an air-main-
tenance outfit at Kai Tak Airport, Hong
Kong: “St, Paul arriving today after-
noon three. Luther.” The outfit went
into a bit of a panic, as they had had
no experience of repairing saints. On
second thoughts they decided it was a
hoax; then someone remembered that
“St. Paul” was the name of an aircraft
chartered by the Lutheran Mission.
* * * ♦
“Ex-C.G.”: All these bombo artists and
jungle-juice jugglers fade into insignifi-
cance compared with a cove upon whom
the Melbourne City Coroner held an in-
quest. The verdict was death from a
fractured skull and petroleum poisoning.
The first can be assumed to have arisen
from a fall or a blow ; the second, accord-
ing to police evidence, was brought about
because the defunct was addicted to
drinking “a mixture of red ochre,
phenyle, black lacquer and kerosene.” As
a toper of some experience I can under-
stand the red ochre —to give it color —the
black lacquer to give it that effulgent
bouquet which only connoisseurs know
and appreciate, the kerosene for kick;
but the phenyle? Maybe the poor chap
believed it would deal with the little green
blokes with the striped tails.
« * * •
“Mullum”: The stark reality of those
gruesome road-signs (B. 16/2/ ’49) appar-
ently had little effect, but one American
city went further. Every motorist con-
victed of a driving offence was ordered
to visit the morgue every afternoon for a
week. The victims of road-accidents were
particularly pointed out. It was a bit
hard on weak stomachs, but it was a
lesson few drivers ever forgot.
# * * *
“X.S.”: There is one class of citizens in
Melbourne who can’t be accused of being
reluctant to hurl themselves in on the
side of law and order. When a Chinese
cook and a kitchenhand and a couple of
other Celestials walked into a fantan joint
in Little Bourke the other evening and
held the occupants up at knife-point a
brawl developed. The number and
variety of weapons that made their
appearance was surprising. Help was
sent for, and approximately 100 com-
patriots of the fantan players turned up
on the instant. To facilitate manoeuvres
half the contestants debouched upon the
roadway, and by the time the police
arrived the war was general, casualties
were lying about all over the place and
the uproar was terrific. Some £l3O was
found to be missing from a drawer,
several persons were arrested and two
were charged with robbery and violence.
Strange. Fantan is supposed to be as
illegal as robbery with violence, and prob-
ably Wun Lung and Ah Loong would
have preferred the argument to be settled
without official intervention.
« ♦ ♦ *
“Bridport”: When Commodore
Dumont D’Urville, of the French Navy,
was having a look over the Antarctic
regions in 1840 he sighted a slab of about
150 miles of coastline which he claimed
as French territory and named Adelie
Land after his wife. His Government
didn’t show much interest in their new
possession, and no one seems to have
called in again until Mawson went there
in 1913, Recently the 1460-ton wooden
ship Commandant Charcot —a former
U.S. minesweeper, renamed in honor of
a French polar explorer—tied up at
Hobart preparatory to pushing off again
for Adelie Land to see how the place has
progressed since the last showing of the
tricolor there 109 years ago. Equipment
includes a Stinson Voyager reconnais-
sance plane to carry four, fitted with
special heating, which can be mounted on
wheels, skis or floats —and a team of a
dozen Eskimo sledge “huskies,” which
added five young pups to the ship’s com-
plement on the way to Hobart. If unable
to land through storms or icebergs, the
party will do what oceanography, hydro-
graphy and mapping it can from ship-
board before returning to France in 12
months’ time,
* * * *
“Pawang”: There can be no logical
objection to the fining of Zorita, a New
York dancer, for being cruel to the
python whose head she bound with trans-
parent adhesive-tape when she did a
nightclub dance in scarifies. From the
point of view of the python’s feelings,
how could she have been more incon-
siderate than to wrap the reptile round
her semi-naked body, and then refuse him
the opportunity of swallowing her and
going deliciously torpid for a couple of
weeks while his gastric juices finished her
off? After being continually frustrated in
that way, the python must inevitably have
developed a neurosis and would have had
to go to a psychiatrist for treatment.
* * * *
“One J.”: I got my idea regarding the
abolition of school-slates in two States —•
N.S.W. in 1912 and W.A. in 1913. In the
interests of hygiene, and for the protec-
tion of teachers’ nerves from the effect
of the screeching impact of 30 or 40
pencils on slates, to say nothing of the
misuse of saliva, let us hope Queensland
schools (B. 19/l/’49) will not much
longer remain impervious to modern
ideas of cleanliness. And don’t tell me
the youngsters have sponges and bottles
of water for slate-cleaning purposes.
They may have, but the tongue, a sucked
finger, or a shot of spittle and a rub with
the palm of the hand used to be the
method in my day, and I don’t suppose
the modern child is much different.
FREE SPECTACLES.
“Under the British La,bor Government’s National
Health Scheme the sum of £2,000,000 was set
down in the Budget as the probable cost of free
spectacles. The actual cost proved to be £13,000,000.”
Tis good to learn of tired eyes
Being given, irrespective
Of cost, all science can devise
To make them more effective.
But still it jolts you, does it not?
All estimates it passes,
To learn ’mong Briton, Celt and Scot
Are such a devil of a lot
In urgent need of glasses. *
From far and wide, by surging scores,
The pharmacies they breasted;
They flocked, besieging experts’ doors
To have their eyesight tested.
Orders went pouring day by day
To Government receptacles
From those who’d suddenly display,
Assured that there was nought to pay,
A wild desire for spectacles.
With each of those for whom, one grants,
Such needs _ may be essentials,
Full five or six hitched up their pants
And handed in credentials.
The moral? Well, it’s what you please,
All I’ve a mind to state is
That quite a lot of things like these
Only become necessities
To various would-be assignees
When they can grab them—gratis.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


Australians Oldest
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament in 1878, The
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., is the oldest
Trustee Company in Australia.
i* 14 is specially equipped to act in all trust and agency
capacities.
m
ITrmstw C&jmpwwy
Provides ample security for performance of trusts, and
prompt, efficient and economical service as executor,
trustee, administrator or agency.
Has under its care some of the most notable trusts in
Australia.
è
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; Sir Eennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton,
M. 8., Melb., F.R.CvS., Eng.; G. D. Young.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
I BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £964,692.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Dr. H. 3/ Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., R.8.K.,
0.M.0., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., L.L.8., K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. To
Aug., Profit. 7 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
£Stg. £Stg. £Stg. £Stg.
1939.. 225,087 225,000 87 5,007,351
1940.. 196,958 194,500 2,458 5,009,809
1941.. 188,129 191,333 5,006,606
6 p.c.
1942.. 174,068 169,000 5,068 5,011,673
1943.. 173,144 171,479 1,665 5,013,338
1944.. 177,274 174,125 3,149 5,016,487
1945.. 179,425 175,416 4,009 5,020,496
8i p.c.
1946.. 191,590 187,000 4,590 5,025,086
9 p.c.
1947.. 218,864 198,000 20,864 5,045,950
1948.. 245,032 198,000 47,032 5,092,982
The ’Asia and the Union, two sturdy,
more-than-century-old Anglo-Australian
institutions, whose businesses are well
scattered throughout Australia and New
Zealand, had completed most of the
formalities preparatory to a merger of the
two undertakings when the Federal Gov-
ernment passed legislation to nationalise
the private trading banks in Australia.
That pushed the merger proposal into
the background so far as the Australian
sections of the two businesses were con-
cerned. The basis of the deal was to
have been the exchange of one Union
share paid to £5 (with a reserve liability
of £10) for one ’Asia share paid to £5
(with a reserve liability of £5), and the
’Asia was to have changed its nameplate
from the present title to the Australasia
Union Bank. The intention is to resume
negotiations for the merger if and when
it becomes practicable to do so.. Even
if the Australian section of their busi-
nesses is taken over by the Government,
the two cos. will still retain a large bank-
ing business in New Zealand and London.
As for the legal aspects of nationalisa-
tion, the High Court threw out the Act,
or the main provisions of it; whereupon
the Government appealed to the Privy
Council on the question of the constitu-
tional validity of section 46, which gives
the Legislature power to prohibit private
banking in Australia. Hearing of the
appeal is scheduled to begin on March
14. Even if the Government succeeds,
it will still need to pass amending legisla-
tion to remedy other defects in the Act.
Hopes are therefore that the people them-
selves—never honestly consulted on this
vital issue—may yet have the opportunity
to decide the question for them,selves at
the coming Federal elections. The ulti-
mate fate of the Act, which contains the
threat of subordinating every form of in-
dustrial activity to political expediency,
may well determine the future pattern
of Australia’s economic and social organ-
isation.
The Government already has, and exer-
cises under the Banking Act, 1945, all
the powers needed to regulate commercial
credit and otherwise control the activities
of the private banks. But by direct and
complete control of the whole volume of
national savings the Government could
speedily gain control of private industry,
and political ends would soon become the
main criterion by which rival claims of
individual enterprises for development
finance would be judged.
Last term a growth of £3,200,277 in
the Union’s approved advances was ac-
companied by an expansion of
£17,048,567 in deposits, etc. —the etcetera
includes an unspecified provision for
taxation and contingencies—and of
£12,278,074 in low-interest-bearing
liquids:
1939. 1947. 1948.
£ Stg. £Stg. £Stg.
Paid capital .. 4,000,000 4,000,000 4,000,000
Deposits, bills s
payable, etc.*.. 40,418,405 86,941,171 103,989,788
Liquid assets .. 12,925,303 50,209,226 62,487,300
Advances 34,275,684 45,221,029 48,421,306
Premises .. 75,800 677,866 695,114
* Includes provision for taxation and contingencies.
Liquids, equal to 60.1 p.c, of liabilities
to the public, etc,, include £24,992,000 (up
£4,300,000) on special account with the
Commonwealth Bank at one half of one
per cent., and £13,314,575 (up £5,030,599)
of remittances in transit, reflecting the
buoyant state of the export trade.
Owing to a change in the method of
presenting the figures, detailed analysis
of the latest p. and 1. account doesn’t
mean much. The growth of £26,168 in
net earnings was not far short of interest
received on the extra deposits on special
account already referred to. The £245,032
of profit—best since 1937 —was 6.1 p.c.
on capital, or a mere 2.6 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined). The div. was maintained at a
nominal 9 p.c., which English income-
tax of 9s. in the £ reduces to £4 19s. p.c.
(sterling). At current rate of exchange
that is worth 6.2 p.c. in Australian cur-
rency, subject to adjustment in connec-
tion with double taxation. It also needs
to be remembered that, of the £4,000,000
of capital, £2,500,000 gathered during the
15 years to 1928 brought with it a like
amount of share premiums, thus making
divs. on five-eighths of the capital worth
no more than half the declared rate.
At £ll the scrip returns 2.8 p.c. (sub-
ject to tax adjustments) on a 6.2 p.c.
distribution. Net tangible cover (book-
value) is £ll 7s. 4d. a share.
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
1.0.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends
Year, Pref. To Re-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. Reserves, serves.!
’42..376,788 50,000 5 p.c.= 224,637 102,151 84,832
Added intangibles, £l2B .. .. 84,704
From inner reserves, £1843 . . 86,547
’43..394,616 50,000 5 p.c.= 235,869 t 108,747 196,294
Unexplained additions .. £ 198
From inner reserves, £lO7 .. ios vr?
Intangibles reduced, £B4 .. ’
Outside equity bought, £B4
’44..391,517 50,000 5 p.c.= 247,662 93,855 289,622
Net reduction reserves .. £294 ) OOC]
Intangibles reduced .. £36 J
’45..808,698 50,000 4i p.c.= 238,839 19,859 309,223
Net reduction reserves, £lB,OOB ) 9QI no a
Added to intangibles .. £179 j ’
’46..413,302 50,000 6 p.c.= 272,662 90,640 881,676
Unexplained additions, £77,083
Res. of new subsids., £43,363 • 331,726
A tided to intangibles, £170,396 J
’47.-463,024 50,000 5 p.c. = 274,675 138,349 470,075
Reserve adjustment, £9374 net .. 479,449
Added intangibles, £15,176 .. 464,273
From subsidiaries, £lO,OOO .. 474,273
Non-trading profits, £10,821 .. 485,094
’48..523,690 50,000 5 p.C.= 290,300 183,390 668,484
* Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. t Deducting
intangibles (now £837,233).
This large manufacturer of heavy
chemicals, etc., is an offshoot of the big
Imperial Chemical Industries Co. (Eng-
land), a world-wide organisation which
seems to be next on the list for national-
isation by Britain’s Socialist Government.
If, in the event of nationalisation, the
English parent co.’s assets outside Britain
are taken over by the Government there,
a substantial part of the profits of this
expanding Australian business would flow
into the British Treasury, accompanied,
no doubt, by political disputation.
The issued capital of this 21-year-old
Australian business is £8,993,495 in a
million 5 p.c. cum. prefs., subscribed by
the Australian public at end 1938, and
7,993,495 ords., of which the largest
holder is 1.C.1. (Eng.); others on the
ord. register are the big mining cos. at
the Barrier, 8.H.P., A.C.1., Electrolytic
Zinc and Commonwealth Fertilisers, all
large consumers of the co.’s products.
With its team of chemists, metallurgists,
engineers and others, the co. provided
Australia with the chemical sinews of
war, which are basically those of peace,
too. So the group is an important con-
tributor to our industrial development,
and likely to remain so. To cater for
new and growing demands, one unit has
been added to another until today 10
diverse plants cater for a wide variety of
basic industrial requirements. Chemicals
for industry and agriculture are turned
out at Botany (N.S.W.) and Yarraville
(Vic.); explosives, ammunition, leather-
cloth, slide-fasteners, nitrocotton and
ammonia at Deer Park (Vic.); alkalis
at Osborne (S.A.); and sulphate-of-
ammonia fertiliser for the Commonwealth
Government at Albion and Ballarat
(Vic.) and Villawood (N.S.W.).
To meet present and prospective de-
mand it was recently decided to double
capacity of the Osborne plant (the work
is not expected to be completed before
1952), extend and mechanise the explo-
sives factory at Deer Park and enlarge
other sections of the undertaking. To
help meet the cost 2,500,000 new £1 ords.
were issued at par last term. When the
books closed only half the money on that
lot had been got in, and the co. had gone
outside for an extra £532,751 to meet
expenditure involved in the all-round ex-
pansion :
1.0.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1938. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital .. £4,639,409 £6,493,495 £7,743,495
Outside interests* 514,040 617,168
Sundry creditors.. 271,271 2,133,315 2,666,066
Taxation, etc. .. 213,247 630,535 747,220
Freeholds, plant, etc. 1,533,167 3,522,136 3,797,458
Stocks .. .. 1,090,747 4,302,788 5,688,092
Debtors . . .. 511,987 1,551,623 2,066,104
Investments .. 857,859 969,675 1,003,07?
Cash .. 1,106,483 237,741 225,568
Intangibles .. 647,563 822,057 837,233
* Including proportion reserves.
The year’s net growth in the book-value
of fixed assets was £275,322, in stocks
£1,385,304, in debtors’ balances £514,481
and in investments (mostly shares in
associated cos.) £33,403. The outlay on
fixed assets approved but not then ex 1
pended was £3,285,000. A further ss.
a share (£625,000) on the last issue of
ords. is payable April 1, leaving another
ss. a share still to come.
Tfie year’s sales reached the record
figure of £10,937,000 —mining, textiles,
manufacturers of chemicals, engineering,
glass manufacture and agriculture in that
order together accounted for nearly two-
thirds of turnover. After eliminating
the equity of outside shareholders and
allowing for depreciation (£445,184, up
£173,439) and taxation (£430,877, up
£52,581), the net result was £60,666
stronger at £523,690. That covered pref.
requirements and 8.1 p.c. on average ord.
capital, compared with 7.5, 6.6, 4.7 and
6.9 p.c. back to 1944. The div. was kept
at a moderate 5 p.c., leaving more than
a third of the profit to plough back into
the business. All that leaves out of the
reckoning non-trading profits and unex-
plained additions to reserves totalling
£20,195, as Well as adjustments connected
with the acquisition of shares in other
cos.
At 255. 9d. the’well-protected prefs.
yield 3.9 p.c.
Australian Stock Breeders Co., Ltd.
r-■ Dividends To Re-
Nov., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Deficit.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1940.. 24,978 6.2 Nil 6,649 18,329 274,971
1941.. 16,579 6.2 Nil 6,649 9,930 265,041
1942.. 22,380 6.2 Nil 6,649 15,731 249,310
1943.. 26,216 6.2 Nil 0,649 19,567 229,744
1944.. 17,330 6.2 Nil 6,649 10,681 219,063
Pref. arrears passed to contingent
liabilities account, £106,563 .. 112,500
1945.. 15,264 6.2 Nil 6,649 8,615 103,885
Loss.
1946.. 14,588 Nil Nil Nil 118,473
Profit,
1947.. 13,401 6.2 Nil 6,649 6,752 111,721
Written off capital, £109,165 .. 2,556
From inner reserves (net), £2556.. •
Reserves.
1948.. 9,961 6.2 2.5 9,379 582 582
* Pref. div. arrears included in deficit until 1947,
The story of the run-owner—this one
took over the old Q.M.E.’s cattle busi-
ness in 1915-—in the far-west and nor’-
west of Queensland, where uncertain rains
produce slow-maturing beasts, is for the
most part a melancholy one of drought,
lost markets, falling prices, rising costs
and shabby treatment from apathetic
Government. At the close of accounts in
1947 this co.’s pref. divs. were still
£113,212 in arrears, and half the ord.
capital was unrepresented by tangibles in
the books!. Moreover, the ords. hadn’t
had a div. since 1920, and didn’t look like
getting one for another 20 years, despite
the change in outlook that followed war
and post-war developments.
So, to open up the way for payments
to the ords., it was decided to clean the
pref. slate and tidy up the p. and 1.
account. To do this half the ord. capital
was jettisoned, then the ords. transferred
one-third of their holding of 10s. shares
to those on the pref. register in return for
cancellation of pref. div. arrears. That
lowered paid capital to £216,414 in
107,249 8 p.c. cum. prefs., reduced to
6.2 p.c. under the Queensland Mort-
gagers’ Relief, etc., Act, and 218,330 ords.
of 10s. each.
Last term only light storms instead of
the usual monsoonal rains fell on the co.’s
properties, and the turn-off of cattle was
below average. So, despite higher prices,
net earnings were £3440 short of the
previous year’s at £9961. That was after
allowing £4405 for depreciation and some-
thing for taxation. Average net earnings
for the dozen preceding years was £14,548.
The £9961 was enough to hand the prefs.
their 6.2 p.c. and show a shade over 3 p.c.
on written-down ord. capital. A 2 i p.c.
div. was paid, leaving £582 as a nucleus
on which to build reserves.
Balance-sheet figures mainly reflect the
capital adjustment which, with £2556 net
from inner reserves, wiped out the p. and
1. debit:
1939. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £325,579 £326,579 £325,579 £216,414
Overdraft .. 77,763 61,615 38,675 41,404
Creditors .. 41,615 24,188 15,085 18,714
Freeholds ] f 69,479 70,807 76,899
leaseholds [ 253,107 \
Livestock J (. 208,113 189,671 188,435
Stores . . 1,581 11,521 10,01.4 12,118
Debtors, cash,
etc. .. 3,532 3,797 3,775 4,041
P. & I. debit 306,814 118,473 111,721
The co. spent £6092 more than was
written off on improvement of properties,
etc. Livestock (down £1236) is taken into
the books on a continuing-to-trade, not
immediate market-value, basis, and that
is as it should be. More-or-less liquids
exceeded the debt, including divs., by
£140,097.
Recent rains have improved the imme-
diate outlook, and brandings were better
than for the two preceding years, though
below the level necessary to ensure satis-
factory future results. Taken in conjunc-
tion with the 1945-46 drought, it all looks
like a comparatively light turn-off for the
next few years. Much will depend upon
continuance of the British meat contract,
recently renewed at slightly increased
prices.
At 245. 6d. the pound prefs. yield 5 p.c.
on a 6.2 p.c. div. basis; their right to
participate with the ords. to 8 p.c. doesn’t
appear to be worth much. The ords. at
6s. 9d. return 3.7 p.c. on the basis of last
year’s distribution, or 5.2 p.c. if the div.
rises to 3.5 p.c. Net tangible cover is
40s. sd. prefs, and 10s. oyd. ords.
W. H. Paling & Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1941.. 11,533 2.80 p.c. = 10,815 718 59,826
1942.. 22,129 4.70 „ „ 18,024 4,105 63,931
1943.. 25,788 6.03 „ „ 23,431 2,357 66,288
1944.. 26,215 6.02 „ „ 23,431 2,784 69,072
From bad debts provision, £55,932 .. 125,004
1945.. 23,907 6.02 p.c. = 23,431 476 125,480
Profit on property resumed, £2992 .. 128,472
1946.. 35,307 8.80 p.c. = 34,246 1,061 129,533
1947.. 68,454 11.10 „ ~ 43,258 ) 5 196 134j729
To cont’cxes prov’n, £15,000 )
1948 . 52,781 11.10 pc. = 48,258 1 29)523 164j252
From cont’c’s prov’n, £20,000 )
For the £10,673 slip in Paling’s profit—
to which the ’Change barometer reacted
last week, marking the shares down from
30s. 6d. to 275. 6d.—the board’s brief but
interesting explanation is that it was
generally recognised that the record
1947 profit possibly owed something to
abnormal post-war sales of the domestic
appliances refrigerators, vacuum-
cleaners, radios —which consort nowa-
days with the musical instruments in
Paling’s showrooms ; and that in the case
of radios, especially, business has since
been braked by the prospect of big
technical changes. But the board says
general turnover was “more than main-
tained” by comparison with 1947. The
relapse in profits is attributed partly to
the übiquitous rise in costs and largely to
reduced selling margins, ■ introduced
as a matter of deliberate policy. Condi-
tions for a buyers’ malrket in anything
like the extreme form known to the
music trade during the ’thirties have not
returned, but Paling’s is strengthening
its grip in advance.
The improved sales last term were
made possible by larger imports of
pianos, records and sheet-music from
England—filling a vacuum in American
supplies caused by the dollar situation.
The £52,781 net profit—after unstated tax
provision and £2Oll for depreciation


SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY, A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A, HILLTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers jor lots 20lb,
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage, extra on C.O.D. Orders.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Adv.t.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution . Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), F, W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. P. HUGHES, R. J. VICARS, J. W. DUNLOP.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
J. K. WILLIAMS, General Manager.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
é
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
fillers, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT COMPANY
Chairman’s Address at Annual General Meeting of Proprietors
At the Annual Meeting of the Proprietors of The Austraiian Mght
Company held on March 8, 1949, in Sydney, the Chairman of directors,
0. G. Vickery, Esq., said:—
Ladies and Gentlemen,
The vear 1948 presented deep contrasts in the affairs of your Company. owar s
discharging its responsibilities as a public utility, great progress occur ed p
the difficulties which currently confront all industries. On the other nano, m
discharging these responsibilities the experiences of the Company toa .
disappointing that one would be Justified in questioning whether the g
it gives to the community is fully understood and really appreciated.
I refer here mainly to the serious threat to the Company’s financial staMi y
which has been created as a result of the delay on the part of firstly the 9 ,
wealth Government ar.d then the State Government in authorising an increased
selling price for gas—an increase clearly demonstrated to be necessary and
after a most searching investigation by a Statutory Board of Inquiry. I ret ® ,
to the Royal Commission which was appointed last year to inquire aspects of
the Gas Industry, which Commission has now been extended by haying further matters
referred to it arising out of the application for an increased selling price.
Thus my address to you thid year has to deal with matters which can be
classified under these two heads, and I propose to deal firstly with what may be
called the positive aspects of our operations.
During the year your Directors have had under frequent review requirements
of plant for the production of gas so that the future demands of the community
may be met by the Company. Last year I told you of an extension to No. 6 Goal Gas
Retort House at Mortlake,, the construction of which had been approved. We have
now decided to double this extension, and the result of this decision will be to
increase further the production capacity of existing plant, and that on order, by
another 3 million cubic feet per day. This extension should be ready for operation
during 1952. Thus the present programme for increasing production capacity provides
for (a) an additional automatic carburetted water gas unit, to which I referred last
year, to be in operation by 1950, (b) an extension to No. 6 Retort House, to which I
also referred last year, to be in operation by 1951, and (c) the further extension of
No. 6 Retort House which I have just mentioned, to be m operation by 1952. .flans
for the concurrent expansion of ancillary plant such as for power generation and
for delivery of gas from the Works are under way or under consideration.
Good progress is being made with the erection of new bathing and change
facilities at the Works, which will provide accommodation for over 600 employees.
The completion of this building will mark the second stage of our programme for
the general improvement of amenities for employees at Mortlake. Ihe stage
you will remember was the completion of the Canteen which was opened at the end
of 1947 - .... ,
During the year negotiations were commenced for the acquisition of 47 acres
of land at Yennora which is situated between Granville and Liverpool as a site
for future expansion of gas production plant.
Maintenance of gas manufacturing plant has been carried out in the face of
difficulties common to all industry. The position in this regard at the present time
is better than was the case last year, when due to such difficulties a portion °f the
plant was out of operation during the seasonal peak demand. However, our ability
to meet peak demands this year will depend upon the availability of labour to man
the plant and, of course, coal supplies.
Extensions to the Company’s distribution system have been continued to the best
of our ability in accordance with the demands of the expanding community. In this
field of activity, however, we have been confronted with a major difficulty because
supplies of Australian made cast iron pipe have been substantially less than our
requirements due to shortages of coal and labour. Inquiries are being made to
ascertain whether some relief can be obtained by securing supplies from abroad.
But unless this proves practicable, and/or local production of pipe improves, I
regret that outstanding applications for supply by new customers must unfortunately
continue to accumulate.
During the year 48 miles of mains ancl 35 miles of service pipe were laid.
These lengths bring the Company’s total mileage as at December 31 last to 2513
for mains and 2941 for services, a total length of 5454 miles. When one remembers
that the distance from Sydney to Perth by railway, for example, is 2690 miles, some
conception of the dimensions of the Company’s operations may be gained. I mention
this because I think that frequently we are inclined to lose sight of these dimensions,
and I feel that comparisons such as this, made occasionally, help us keep things in
correct perspective.
You may remember that last year I referred to a decision to erect a gas holder
in the vicinity of Granville in order to meet the existing and prospective demands
for gas set up by customers in the more western suburbs. The work is proceed g
and early in the year a contract was let for the actual holder, a ® distinct
earth and concrete work which has been in progress since 1947. Ihe compa y
objective is to have the whole project completed by 1952.
To keep pace with the increasing demand for gas in the eastern suburbs a
additional boosting unit was installed at Euston Road, Alexandria, during the y
and negotiations were entered into for the acquisition ot 19 a . er ® B
Thornleigh upon which it is intended to erect a district holder and boosting pi fc
The plan for systematic and free inspection of _ customers installations, which
was introduced two years ago, continues to be implemented, and to date tn
appliances and service pipes of approximately 25,000 customers have been exam n ,
checked, and advised upon. , ... .
During the year premises at Australia Street, Oamperdown, with an area of
40,000 square feet, which had been leased since 1934 and used to accommodate
stores, workshops and laboratories, were purchased. This step was taken as a
alternative to engaging in building operations at present high costs. , ,
The increase in customers served during 1948 was 7186, the total number
being now 318,813. This increase you will be glad to know is the largest we
have had since 1937. The major portion of the increase consisted of domestic
customers, and I suggest that this fact reflects the continued acceptance of gas as
the domestic fuel of the community, and indicates public satisfaction with the
service which the Company gives. I think, also, that we may deduce from this
growth in numbers some proof that the prices charged by the Company for the
service it gives are certainly not excessive. .
The value of sales of appliances during 1948 exceeded that of any previous
year in the Company’s history, although difficulties in meeting customers
requirements existed, particularly in respect to gas ranges. Primarily our . sales
Department is maintained to ensure the retention and* expansion of our sales of
gas, and its merchandising activities are but an aid towards the accomplishment
of this objective. Nevertheless, as a result of these activities the Sales Department
during the year was able to make a substantial contribution towards offsetting
increases in costs of operation due to causes beyond the Company s control.
In those of its activities which are less subject to accurate measurement, sucn
as in tne field of maintaining good relations with existing and potential users,
the Department continued to do particularly fine work and I feel that we should
be very satisfied with its operations. ...
The sales of gas for the year were 1761 millions of gas units compared with
1725 millions units sold in 1947. The increase of 36 millions units is 2.1 p.c. more,
than that sold during the previous year. The quantity sold would, of course, have
been greater had supplies not ceased during May when employees went on strike,
and had it not been necessary to diminish gas production during June when supplies
of coal were rationed by the Joint Coal Board.
All by-products available for sale were sold, and during the year several increases
in selling prices were granted which partly offset increases in the cost of coal. _
In the foregoing I have touched briefly on your Company s production, distri-
bution and sales activities, but there are others to which I should refer if you are
to have a reasonably complete survey of its operations. .. ...
In this connection I would like to refer to the fact that our research activities
have continued to promote the technical and commercial efficiency of the Company.
Close touch is being maintained with developments abroad, and the possibilities of
local application of overseas improvements in practice are under continual examination.
Apart from this aspect of its activities our research organisation is constantly directing
its attention to problems of a domestic character associated with the Company s
P In connection with personnel matters you should know that early in the year
it was decided to increase pensions payable to retired wages employees under tfte
Superannuation Scheme to the then new maximum permissible moome allowed tor
qualification for the Commonwealth Pension, and to treat similarly retired wages
employees who, under the provisions of the scheme, cease to receive pensions when -
they reach 77 years of age. The cost of these adjustments is being wholly borne
by 1 several changes have taken place in the personnel of senior
executive officers. In March, Mr. G. W. Woodbridge, Assistant General Manager,
retired from his position after being with the Company for twenty-five years. During
this period he participated in many major developments in the Company s
organisation and administration and we sincerely regret the loss of his services.
However, we have been fortunate in being able to come to an arrangement with mm
by which he will be available to the Company in a consulting capacity on specific
matters, from time to time. Consequent upon Mr. Woodbridge s retirement, we have
appointed Mr. J. B. Robinson to the position of Assistant General Manager (Commer-
cial) to control the commercial units and activities of the Company, and Mr.
J. M. McShane to the position of Assistant General Manager (Technical) to control
production, distribution and technical research units and activities.
From the foregoing you will be able to form some picture of what I may ca.ll
the normal activities of the Company during the year, and you will gather that in
such matters as are under our control the Company has followed a course of order y
development and expansion.
I shall now pass to what I may call, in contrast, the extraordinary developments
with which the Company has been faced. I refer here to our experiences in trying to
obtain an adjustment in the selling price of gas, and to the Royal Commission which
was appointed by the State Government to inquire into “"j
You will have received my statement of February 11, relating to the subject
of the price of gas, and since it sets out what has transpired in this connection I do
not think it is necessary for me, on this occasion, to do more than emphasise the
consequences of continued delay by the Government in approving of an adjustment in
the selling price and to express the keen disappointment and sense of frustration
which your Directors feel.
The consequences of continued non-adjustment in the price of gas are as
unavoidable as the fact is inescapable, that at some time in the future an adjustment
MUST be made. In plain terms the consequences must be a drastic curtailment of
activities involving also all the disorganisation and unpleasantness of substantial
retrenchments; an uncertainty in planning for the future; a lessening of efilc y,
and a weakening of the financial prestige of the Company. It u not only the
immediate damage that is being occasioned by the delay in adjusting the price of
gas which is causing us so much concern, but also the possible long term effect
on the Company's financial structure, the soundness of which is an essential
prerequisite if plans for future expansion are to be made and implemented with
confidence. However, I do not want to elaborate on these consequences because I
feel that they should be so obvious. The plain position of the Company 18 that
it CANNOT continue making heavy losses week by week. Such can only lead to
financial chaos. The Company is not in the position of some organisations and
government instrumentalities which can- allow deficits on operations to accumulate
from vear to year nor can it cover losses by such expedients as interest free loans.
An“in time or other, the financial situation of these bodies to which
I refer, not in criticism but purely for purposes of illustration, will require to be
adjusted) have said, the position of the Company is, I feel, so clear that we are in
fact bewildered at the attitude of the Government.
The appointment of the Royal Commission which was announced k* June wm,
as you know, the concession made to our employees who went °n strike during
May to induce them to resume making gas for the community. I y y existing
the time we were amazed that such a concession should, in the then exisnpg
circumstances, be made by a Government representing the P^P h a S o li“an
S KL“ d rf f “ere ; a
need for a wicte inquiry into the Industry, the obvious question which arises is why
they did not ask for it before acting as they did.
The terms of reference to the Royal Commission were of such breadth that they
of Company’s operations to be. examined. We were requested
tiv the Crown to assist the Commission in its inquiries by making available our
evidence before i? wfs actuany tendered, and to this we agreed. Our attitude based
on a confidence in the Company’s organisation and management, was that since
the Roval Commission was a fait accompli we should assist it to come to correct
oonchistens bv giving it the fullest possible information. The commission heard
evfdenceon 37 days and made extensive inspections of the Company’s organisation
evidence on a . December when it completed its inquiries and adjourned to
between .^ u f^ r f n V e f that report has not yet been completed, and
prepare its report. A f re t eren ces have since been made to the Commission,
as you now know , fu ™ a the di sse ntient report of the Government nominee
Presumably thep arwe i P f dealt with the company’s application for an increase
z t Sts iV. rvyXa’pSs stjs
haTS™°teSie an Instrument delaying an increaae In price to which
like to state clearly the position as we see it. recom .
governing the Company’s toancial operati ,emendations may be made by the
mendations to alter that Act. some sue Government to
Royal Commission sometime. sit was subject to
refrain from dealing with a situation which exis ~ which a jj the members —
very close scrutiny by the Board y f nee _| gree d on the necessity for
Chairman, Government nominee, and Compa J t { j questions to
something being done by means of price ad,justment,. Are these not
ask? (a) what purpose does a Board of l " q fl y hat secur ity does the Gas and
given effect to promptly? and t he financial restate-
Electricity Act give to sharehoiders and inv«t(Government’s delay in acting in the
tions which the Act imposes? I say th , which are based the construc-
matter before it strikes at the fundamentalcon P on ti n con tinue to rise and
tion of the Gas and Electricity Act. Since the Board of
the financial position of the C°mP M yProg ly hag already been i ncreas ed
Inquiry concluded its sittings the annual i
by approximately £lOO,OOO. results of the
And now finally I wish to make S 0“? r ®^® al Ce ® e^,r t h copies of which are in
year’s operations. You will see from the 173/15/2. This amount is
i™.l P °to Se ?f , p.“n n '’lrf c'aS.ai and tall.' short k requirement. lot a Ml
lt.
brought forward from previous years makes absorbed by the payment of a
A final dividend for the y f ar / 1 E 2 , 2 | o^' C { e aJi n g O The re .um r o£ 11^ £37,580/4/2 to P i>e
for the year. This would absorb IT2^’')oo.’ 1 T 2^’' )00 .’ m]nt S Y ou will notice that on this
occasion * been made to the’Special Purposes Account.
''That the'statemerrt ol Account, for the port ,*,rf
determine
31st December, 1948, on the ‘A’ and B shares.
was second-best in the co.’s
public history. It represented
13.5 p.c. on capital, although an
amount equal to more than half
the capital still slumbers in cash-
balances :
1938. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital £389,321 £389,321 £389,321
Creditors 1 f 78,420 82,468
»«.«« {
gencies J t 66,497 37,729
Freeholds .. 113,673 133,599 133,599
Plant . . 6,007 15,784 16,310
Stocks .. 106,534 119,140 188,897
Debtors .. 328,721 153,931 181,944
Cash, bonds, •
etc. .. 1,344 289,771 199,870
Cash was accumulated when the
war obstructed overseas supplies,
snuffing out most of the co.’s im-
portant time-payment trade. The
balances have gradually been
coming back into employment
since 1945, when they amounted
to £358,858. Last year’s reduc-
tion of £89,901 went into larger
stocks (£69,257) and debtors
(£28,013).
Debtors mainly consist of time-
payment accounts, which rose
25 p.c. last year to £157,655
(subject to bad-debts reserve of
£18,243). These accounts are
about £146,000 less than in 1938,
with cash balances correspond-
ingly higher by £198,526.
Paling’s visible reserves have
risen 50 p.c. over the decade.
Since the close of last accounts,
the Townsville store has been re-
opened, after its war-time eclipse,
and is shaping well. That is the
co.’s fourth store in Queensland,
and it has five N.S.W. branches
in addition to the Sydney head-
quarters. In the current term
demand is said to be still on the
increase and good results are
claimed for the co.’s new piano-
manufacturing section. Whether
the price-cutting policy will be
extended further isn’t stated. The
18s. shares would yield 7.1 p.c. at
current price of 275. 6d. if the
last 2s. (11.1 p.c.) dividend is
maintained.
Norseman Gold Mines, N.L.
For the year to end Oct., 1948,
the co. (paid capital £125,000 in
ss. shares) netted £10,377 (up
£1810), or 8.3 p.c. on capital,
and paid a 5 p.c. div., first since
1940, when 50 p.c, was distri-
buted from treatment of gold-
bearing ore. Last year’s profit
was written after allowing
£7993 (down £4096) for deprecia-
tion and £3623 (down £20,125)
for development, and includes
£6923 (£25,000 in the previous
year) Federal subsidies in respect
of previous years’ operations.
The co. owns two groups of
leases at Norseman (W.A.).
Operations at the Norseman
group, a low-grade gold-quartz
proposition, averaging about
2.64dwt., became unprofitable
and ceased in Feb., 1947 ; hence
last year’s Ipwer allowances for
development and depreciation.
The Iron King group contains
extensive pyritic ore-bodies
which provide the raw material
for about one-third of the sul-
phuric acid used in Westralia’s
superphosphate output. Here are
treatment figures for pyritic ore;
Ore Ore
Treated, Sulphur Railed,
Long Long Content, Long
Tons. Tons. p.c. Tons.
1945 .. 63,613 24,609 47.1 9,134
1946 .. 67,458 26,744 45.8 7,172
1947 ~ 76,871 32,808 46.6 8,415
1948 .. 49,867 23,243 46.9 14,123
Because the super, cos. were
carrying large stocks at the be-
ginning of the term, less ore was
treated last year. Average grade
(27.45 p.c. sulphur), concentrat-
ing ratio (2.14 to 1), average pro-
ceeds (535. 3d. a ton) and flota-
tion recovery (86.2 p.c.) were all
better, but extraction and treat-
ment costs (335. a ton)
were 6s. 3d. heavier.
Since the Federal Govern-
ment intends to use as much
local pyrites as possible for pro-
duction of sulphur and acid, the
co. hopes ultimately to supply
the whole of Westralia’s require-
ments in this respect. At Oct. 31
last reserves of pyritic ore were
put at 735,000 tons (up 35,000
tons), expected to average not
less than 25 p.c. sulphur, and a
lot more similar-grade ore is
known to exist outside measured
limits. Everything will depend
upon the price the Government
is prepared to pay and the level
of costs, which are still rising.
Plant is reported in good condi-
tion.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £60,243 and
current liabilities £101,917, of
which £50,532 was coming to
W.A. Government Railways and
£40,540 to Rural and Industries
Bank of W.A.
The market notes the debt and
the trend of costs, and prices the
scrip at 2s. 9d., or thereabouts.
Sandy Creek Gold Sluicing,
operating on the Morobe field
(New Guinea), has ceased opera-
tions on its Sandy Creek and
Poverty Creek areas, where re-
sults have proved disappointing.
With gold at its present price,
less 5 p.c. royalty, and costs as
they are, it is doubtful whether
the big flats and terraces on the
Upper Watut will yield much in
the way of profit either. In
January 6140 c.y. were treated
for 720 z. Idwt. gold. The
market prices the f.-p. 2s. 6d.
shares at Is. or thereabouts.
* * * *
The drill on New Milano’s
Mt. Monger (W.A.) lease has
stopped at 592 ft., the last 18in.
assaying 4.75 dwt.; the rest of
the core showed barren or un-
payable material. Geologist
Finucane recommends that the
hole be further extended, and the
contribs. are asked for another
3d. a share, which will make
them paid to 6s. 9d. each. On
the market recent sales were
made up to sd. a share.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Solitude”: Came a rattle of stirrup-
irons, a bump as his saddle hit the peg
outside the door, and Seventyfiver arrived
home. The dusty streaks meandering
over neck and mug testified to the day’s
heat, and his dragging limbs were mute
evidence. of its length and ’ hardships.
“Some day when you get round to retir-
ing from this job,” I sought to cheer him,
“you’ll be able to sleep in the shade on
days like this; or drink beer down at the
pub.” “Yair?” He dived into the wash-
dish. “Y’ think so?” he resumed pre-
sently, coming up through the hole in
the towel. “That’s what Ted Bailey done.
Retired an’ went down t’ the pub t’ live.
An’ what happened? Died, not ten years
later. Heart or somethin’ they said, but
he never had it before. Yair, an’ what
about Gran’pa Thompson, an’ of Ned?
Gripes, y’ couldn’t ’a’ got two stronger
sort o’ blokes than them two was all their
lives. Then, soon’s they get round about
eighty, they both retire. I tell y’,
Gran’pa Thompson was dead inside two
years, an’ ol’ Ned ain’t never been the
same man since. No, Sol,” he announced
decidedly, draping the towel oven the
rabbitskins to dry, “y’ don’t catch me
doin’ it. Might work awright if a bloke
retired in his young days an’ sort o’ got
used to it, but I’ve took partic’lar notice,
and there ain’t none o’ the ol’ stagers
last more’n ten or fifteen years at the
most after they give up work.”
* * * $
“S.E.”: In his own corner of the
Cabbage Patch he’s known as “Shoutin’
Jim,” and he keeps a pub. Maybe he is
like any other barkeep to strangers —
I wouldn’t know; but one needs only
stroll in, explain that he has just come
from Jim’s old particular scrub-patch
and the rest is so easy it must be sampled
to be believed. Two home-town wan-
derers tell of a recent visit. Six o’clock
chimed, and the big bloke thumbed the
mob out. “Got to lock the bar,” he
announced loudly, “or I’ll have the John
on my wheel,” He saw that the beer-tap
was left on ; then, grabbing the two thirsty
visitors, be shoved them back inside and
locked the door from without. Some
time later, conscience-smitten into a
vague feeling they should pay for their
drinks, the pair raked out two bob and
dropped it on the bar. On his return Jim
spotted the coin, correctly diagnosed its
purpose, and sliding it into the till,
solemnly handed out two-and-sixpence
change. Marvellous the number of blokes
that come from his home range and
knew that publican once. Place was so
full I could hardly get in to explain
where I’d met him. Take your bow,
“Shoutin’ Jim,” and turn it on for the
next thirsty drover that drifts in. He’s
from The Gully.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: “I don’t get this,” Little
Curl said, looking up from his book. “It
reckons that when this bloke Pershus
come t’ where the Gorgons is he yanks
but his slasher an’ gets set t’ hack off the
nut of one o’ ’em called” —he consulted
the book —“Medoosa. These here Gor-
gons was wimmen, y’ see, an’ they sorter
had claws instead o’ hands an’ they could
fly an’ ” —noises of derision from his
listeners—“anyway, that’s what she says
here. But what beats me is this:
[This Medoosa piece has got a dial so
tough that anybody looks at it is freezed
t’ stone, see? This Pershus cove knows
that, so he lifts up a shinin’ shield he
has an’ looks at the reflection in it an’
lets go an’ slices off Medoosa’s nut. Well,
what difference does it make? Any-
body’s got a hard dial it’s still a hard
dial if y’ see it in a mirror, so why don’t
he freeze just the same?” The hands
thought it over, and Pocketknife suggested
that whoever wrote the yarn must have
overlooked that Perseus had to see what
he was doing and worked the shiny shield
in as a way out. But Little Curl wouldn’t
have it. “It don’t make no difference,”
he asserted stolidly. “Y’ remember
that dance we went f in Balranald an’
that snortin’-lookin’ girl in the green
dress?” We did. “Well, I took her
home an’ she leaves me in the front
room. There’s one o’ them sideboard
things with a big mirror on it an’ I see
a female face look through the door at
me an’ then go away. When the girl
comes' back I ask who it was an’ she says
it must ha’ bin her mother. No”—Little
Curl shook his head gravely—“a mirror
wouldn’t break it down. That face froze
me right out o’ Balranald an’ I ain’t bin
back since.”
* * * *
“Betcha”; Was after a few strays in a
stretch of bush country, and remembering
an old prospector camped somewhere in
the region decided he’d be the easiest
means of getting a line on the missing
steers. Fifteen miles past the last sign
of civilisation I cut into the ranges.
“Well, either you hold the Wool or wind the gramophone."
The nag was tiring when, hours
later, we broke through to a tiny
flat occupied by a bark hut. No one
was around, but soon I spotted the pros-
pector, headed him off and ran him to
earth in a small gully. “Another visitor?”
he asked, on seeing me. “Gripes, the
John was in ’ere only twelve munce ago.
Thought I might be dead or somethin’.
What y’ after?” We yarned for a bit,
and I was invited to the hut. A mug of
tea and slice pf damper were about
finished when the old bloke remembered
a steer that had wandered in and died
there some time previously. “In that
gully where I got. the first colors, an’
ain’t got no more since,” he told me.
“ ’Bout two mile up. I’ll com’n show
y’.” Expertly he ashed-over the coals,
picked up his hat, and then paused.
Hunting, he found a piece of brown-
paper bag, dug up a stub of pencil, and
began a large, nearly indecipherable
scrawl. “There, that’ll save anybody
waitin’,” he announced, tacking it on the
outside of the hut door. Turning, I
read: “Back in a coupla hours.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Chuck”: Dan was watching Mike’s
effort to muster a small paddock with an
unbroken sheep-dog. For some minutes
Mike’s frantic whistling sounded con-
tinuously, then gave over to a loud bawl.
“Go back, y’ silly cow. Back! Gripes,
don’t y’ know what back means? Aw,
I’ll break y’r blasted neck, dTec’ly.” The
dog stopped, looked back wonderirlgly
towards the noise and resumed his placid
journey through the sheep. Mike tried
again. He whistled, roared, waved his
arms, and started to sweat. “Gripes, the
silly cow’s chasin’ ’em the wrong way.
Go gack there, Tige. Back. Blime, J’ll
kill y’ f’r this.” The dog continued
merrily, coursing sheep, cutting them off,
and jamming a bunch tightly in a far
corner. As they broke the fence and
became boxed with the mob in the next
paddock, Mike threatened to explode.
“Gripes, 1’11...1’1l stop ’im, I bet,” he
spluttered. “Never will make a dog, that
beggar.” Dashing into the shed he came
out with a pea-rifle, and took particular
care in sighting. A few quick strides,
and Dan knocked his arm almost as the
explosion came. There was a distant
yelp. Then, as the mong stopped to lick
one of. his toes, Mike turned on Dan.
“You Gripes, you mad, interferin’
fool,” he accused wrathfully. “Now look
what y’ve done. Gorn ’n’ made me
hit ’im! ”
* * * *
“Pig Islander”: The argument was
whether explosives exert pressure upwards
or downwards. Everyone stopped when
the quiet, bald-headed foundry-manager
in the corner spoke. “A party of us had
to fence a stretch along the Ninety-mile
Beach,” he said. “Labor was scarce,
the ground was sandy, and the
problem was to drive the posts in
securely. Previous attempts resulted
in the posts lying at all angles. A
scheme was adopted. The posts and wire
were strung flat along the whole length
of the beach on the raised ground at the
back of it, so that about a foot of post
projected over the edge. The telephone
was in constant communication with the
weather office, and when the forecasted
cyclone was approaching on its easterly
course the mob got into position. As
the cyclone struck, the six-wire, 90-mile-
long fence slowly reached the vertical.
Bang! Down went the plungers, and as
the length of the F.I.D, fuse, strung
beforehand along the top wire, detonated
the Tib. of ‘jelly’ on each post, so each
one was driven firmly and simultaneously
into the ground. And that proves, I
think, gentlemen, that ‘jelly’ blows down.”
“Yair, but how did you strain the fence
up?” someone asked. “Easy,” said the
bald-headed bloke. “Y’ see, the southern
end was looped round a giant pohutu-
kawa and the northern end round the
lighthouse at Cape Maria van Diemen.
The heat of the explosion expanded the
wires, and at a given signal the slack was
taken up. As the wire cooled, it con-
tracted, and there she was, boys, in posi-
tion, and fiddle-string-tight,”
* * * ♦
“C.R.”: As each one of us small
graziers got close to our cut-out in the
local depot shearing-shed we were
approached by “the rep.” with the request
that, as the sheep were pretty rough, we
might throw in the meat. We did.
When given our accounts from the con-
tractor we were all booked up with 2s.
6d. per meal eaten dn the shed-mess
during the day or two we were around.
* * * *
“South Coast”: “Zake’s” par. (B.
23/2/’49) about oleanders and blowflies
recalls that residents date the complete
disappearance of blowflies from the Ton-
gan Islands from the time that a species
of large golden wasp arrived in South
American timber boats and took up its
permanent residence in the group. After
eradicating the blowies the wasps made
their bests in the bush where, except for
an occasional collision, they are no
trouble to the human population, brown
or white —a rare case of a pest-extermina-
tor not itself becoming a major pest.
• * * *
“B. A. Ker”; The common native tor-
toise doesn’t look like a creature with a
reckless, adventurous soul, but I can’t
discover any other reason that could
account for its habit of going walkabout.
Although its natural habitat is a fresh-
er brackish-watered creek, I once dug up
one of the little amphibians fully two
miles from the nearest waterhole. It
was nestled against the taproot of a stump
2ft, under the ground—a circumstance
that suggests hibernation. Heavy rains
seem to awaken a wanderlust beneath the
reptile’s carapace: I’ve often watched
tortoises head away at right-angles from
a full stream as though going somewhere
definite —and in a hurry.. And, as tor-
toises go, they make fair speed. Nothing,
it seems, can make them change course
—which is the reason why you’ll often
find empty tortoise-shells alongside a
wire-netting fence near a creek: the
adventurer finss the fence in his path,
stands up on his back-legs,, puts his mead
through the mesh —and dies there. Re-
cently I saw a tortoise about 4in. long
crossing a bush road; before I could
reach him a utility truck swept around
the bend and ran over the little fellow
with both near-wheels. To look at the
mess seemed futile, but I glanced
while passing—the ugly little head
was out, and the journey was being con-
tinued! A careful examination showed
the full extent of the injuries: a crack
about lin. long on the rear of the cara-
pace, and three small abrasions on the
snake-like neck.
• * * *
“Coral Cod”: While the ancient-steel
argument is on can any Aboliar tell how
Damascus steel is, seemingly, built up
of many crescents of different metal?
Our major found in a Jerusalem junk-
shop a Damascus dagger, the blade of
which showed all the crescents, some of
which had been etched out and the space
inlaid with gold. It was a gorgeous thing,
and seemed well worth the £lO paid for
it after a long haggle conducted in Eng-
lish, Arabic, Hebrew and Australian.
* * ♦ •
“Ohinemuri”: Back in the old days of
unregistered Maori race-meetings, I recall
an old Maori gumdigger named Wepeta
who owned a very solid galloper called
Rotokohu. The horse had won the local
Clip three years running, and, despite a
rise of a stone for each win, carried 13
stone to victory in his third Cup. Deter-
mined to stop his trot, the handicapper
gave him 16 stone on his. fourth nomina-
tion. All hands were surprised when
Wepeta accepted,, but got a bigger shock
when the Maori blandly turned up on Cup
day with his two eight-stone twin nephews
to be weighed-out for Rotokohu. The all-
Maori committee held a hurried meeting,
but could find nothing in their book of
rules covering it, so allowed him to start,
but stipulated there was to be only one
whip and one pair of spurs between the
two riders. The two lads hopped old
Roto out to a big lead, and the other
riders, including a flash “outed Jock”
from Sydney, thinking he would never
carry his weight, left it too late to go
after him, and the old horse lasted just
long enough to win by a neck.
» * * ♦
“J.J.A.”: Cycling through the Victorian
countryside I was struck by the
number of roadside fireplaces which had
evidently been put there by some
authority. Passing to N.S.W. I was
equally struck by their absence. It was
significant perhaps that in the Victorian
districts no sign of recent bushfires was
evident, whilst there were many black-
ened areas on the N.S.W. side. There
seems to be a lesson to be learned.
♦ * * *
“R.A.A. Sargent”: Working my black-
tan - and - white Border Collie-Kelpie
first-cross bitch at the Condobolin
(N.S.W.) saleyards, I refused bids for her
of up to £5O; yet when I offered the two
buyers concerned her daughter by a
good Border Collie, three months, un-
broken, at £5, with a no-worker-money-
back guarantee, it was rejected in both
cases on the ground that a red dog (the
pup had thrown back to her granddam
in color) was a weak dog. My own ex-
perience tends to disprove it ; can any
member of the Council enlighten me as
to the origin and reasons for this state-
ment from two unrelated graziers? Per-
haps it is merely a local prejudice.
» * * •
“Curate’s Egg”: We’re pretty simple
blokes out south-western Queensland way,
but we do our best to entertain strangers
who arrive at the pub. Pretty soon a
game of “Crow” is suggested, and usually
Spinifex Sam explains the rules to the
stranger. The game is simple enough.
Pieces of paper, each bearing the name of
an Australian bird, are put in a hat, one
slip for each of the players. Then each
draws a slip out and the picker of slip
bearing Kelly’s monicker has to shout. It’s
Surprising—though only to the stranger
that with monotonous regularity the
learner draws the bird of ill-omen. Some-
times the stranger takes a long time to
learn the game, this wisdom coming at
the stage when it occurs to him to inspect
some of the slips from which the other
competitors read names such as “Galah,
“Pigeon,” “Shag,” etc., and then discard
nonchalantly. At that point he
to wonder why someone wrote “crow
on every one.
SAND DUNES.
Over the reef the rocky bars
Smash the green water as it runs
Into a cloud of snowy stars,
A cataract of flying suns.
The roaring breaker leaps and lulls.
Retreats, and forward rolls once more
While querulous Pacific gulls
Grudge me the freedom of the shore.
This is a strange, a lonely land,
With sagas and with elegies
Written in symbols on the sand,
In hieroglyphics on the trees;
Its mountains keep no lasting shape,
To no fixed rule or rhythm conform,
But rolling ridge and rounded cape
Overnight alter with the storm.
A Spanish ship, old legends say,
Adventuring to the Great South Land,
Lies buried in some nearby bay
Uncounted years beneath the sand.
Where once a mimic forest made
Sea-music with the winds that blow
Forever from the ocean, shade
And substance both have vanished now.
The grey sea-rosemary that grew
About the Otway’s utmost hem,
The bird-weed and the flax-flowers blue —
The dunes have swallowed all of them.
Only the old trees’ blanching bones,
Never with leaf or sail to stand,
Among no flowers or even stones
Lie quiet in the conquering sand.
VICTORIA.
K. DALZIEL.


“B. A. Ker”; Phil suffers from a well-
earned reputation for being a good
“fixer-up” of things. It keeps him battling
with jibbing clocks and bung primus-
stoves, etc., while the rest of the gang
are spending their leisure hours loafing
around the hut, playing cards or arguing
the toss. He was bending intently over
the latest repair job when an argu-
ment developed as to who was the
cleverest man Australian politics had ever
known. Idols were stood up—and in-
stantly dragged off their pedestals. Names
were mentioned, almost with reverence,
only to he besmirched with mud.
Tempers rose, with the debate becoming
more involved, heated and personal, every
second. Suddenly Phil joined in. It was
so unusual that amazement lulled the
turmoil. “You fellers want to know who
was the cleverest politician we’ve ever
had? I’ll tell yez—Billy Hughes.” Like
the modified roar from a stadium crowd
the anti-Hughes faction’s disapproval
thundered. Phil smiled, waited patiently
until he could make his voice heard, then
grinned; “So yez don’t think he was
clewer, eh? Well, he could mend an
umbrella ; come and see if any of youse
can mend this one.”
* * ♦ ♦
“Og”: Tales of near-fantastic behavior
by giant toads continue to filter through
from N.Q., where locals take the antics
of the ugly monsters for granted.
Southern travellers dossing at hotels near
Innisfail don’t relish them squatting out-
side bedroom-doors or lying on bar-
counters, but local louts find pleasure in
chasing them with cigarettes or pouring
beer over them. A woman I knew in
Trebonne used to tell of strange black
figures which gathered under the lamp-
light outside her home like a circle of
elder Druids. Most canegrowers I’ve
spoken to defend the toads for their good
work in destroying cane-beetles and put
up with it when a few of their fowls are
poisoned trying to eat them. But
“Like a sample of the rust-shade one, too, madam?"
the Museum Director (George Mack)
thinks it’s a pity they were ever brought
here, and when southerners begin to see
the toads I think there’ll be a few to
support him. We had a specimen 12in.
long, weighing 1 lib., brought in the other
day. The office wit, seized with the mood
of the hour, promptly upturned the
w.p.b. over it, with the label: To Be
Deported. # ,
“Wippegong”: A week’s clear, hot
weather, then a muggy day; thunder-
clouds roll up, and as the breeze drops
come the swifts. Back and forth they
weave across the path of the approaching
storm, skimming low where the flying-
ants are just clearing the scrub, wheeling
higher for quarry we can only guess at,
but all the time moving on, keeping in
the exact conditions they prefer at the
precise distance and time ahead of the
disturbance. Silent except for the whip-
ping of fine wings, their flight follows
wide curves, rippled now and then by
sudden swerves to snap up an insect just
out of the direct line of flight; but at
the end of the sweep they’ll glide, bank
and turn gently, then work back over a
new strip of territory, like a plane on
survey. Their weather-sense must be
highly developed, for they seem to live
in that insect-swarming period just prior
to storms; yet they must leave it some-
times, for if they always kept ahead of
our west-to-east weather-fronts they’d
soon find themselves short of shore-based
wogs. The old belief that they never
alight in this country has been queried of
late; all I know about that is that on
any I have shot, or seen shot, the feet
were cramped in a ball, were white and
tender and as free from dirt as the toes
of a new baby. But I have seen them
settle. On the way home in ’45 we were
for a while in Bhopal, Central India, and
there the swifts were nesting. In colonies
like bottle-swallows, they built under old
arches and in the shelter of wide window-
ledges, and they kept up an ear-splitting
din. The buildings they favored had
once been part of the palace, but were
now occupied by the more prosperous
dancing-girls of the town. Whether
that had anything to do with the shrill,
hysterical nature of the avian gossip I
could not say.
» ♦ ♦ •
“Mat’s Mate”: “I was camped at the
White Elephant tank once,” Mat said,
“between Minapre an’ Hopetoun, an’ a
bloke comes up in a car an’ asks me if
I’m lookin’ for work. I says I am, an’ he
gives a sorter funny look around an’
fishes a coupler notes out o’ his pocket,
hands ’em t’ me an’ tells me to go
t’ Hopetoun an’ meet him at the
post-office in two days’ time. So I
go. When he turns up he gives me
another coupler quid an’ invites me t’
make for Murtoa or somewhere an’ look
for a job. So I asks him what he’s cornin’
at, an’ it turns out that him an’ another
bloke was after the same girl an’ they’re
both tryin’ t’ take her to a dance an’
pop the question. But the other bloke’s
ol’ man won’t let him go unless he
finishes a haystack he’s buildin’, an’ he
starts t’ look for someone t’ help him.
The bloke that give me the cash hears
about it an’ he drives round the district
findin’ blokes like me an’ bribin’ ’em t’
clear out, see? Funny what some
blokes’ll do.” A faraway look came into
Mat’s eyes, “I often bin goin’t’ get back
that way an’ see that other bloke an’
remind him of the good turn I done him,”
he said. “Good turn?” I echoed. “Betcha
life,” Mat replied. “Saved him from
gettin’ engaged or somethin’, didn’t I?”
* ♦ * *
“Yarrasider”: Virile, humorous, yet
boyishly immature and desperately afraid
of responsibility, particularly of the mar-
kind, Mat, whose adventures are
weekly presented by his Mate, is a typical
Australian. Musing on what Mat could
have been had he applied his powers to
the business of life, I see him the master
of broad lands, the father of many fine
SO ns and daughters, an acknowledged
leader in the life of his district—yes, per-
fiapSj even a power in politics. With his
wit> independent outlook and hatred of
cant> w fi a t a figure he would have been
p ar fi a nient! How he would have
lashed the muddlers and meddlers of
today! Judging by the quality of his
speech he could even attain to the Prime
Ministership. History would know him
by some homely title that summed up
his commonsense genius. Then, aged and
revered, he would serenely pass, mourned
by a nation, his faithful mate taking down
his last words for posterity. From this
glorious vision I emerge—to read of
Mat’s latest stratagem in escaping from
the attentions of some farmer’s daughter,
a nice girl and obviously the sort whose
influence is all that is needed to make him
grow up. And dolefully I think: “Well,
aren’t we just a nation of Mats? A rol-
licking lire in the sun and damn to-
morrow.” Then comes the brighter
thought; Perhaps it’s not too late yet —
not even for Mat. What do you think,
Mate?
» ♦ * *
“Bananabender”: Stumpy and Joe,
cutting timber in the heavy jungle on the
upper reaches of the Johnstone River
(N.Q.), were camped in a roughly-built
hut on the edge of the small clearing
which served as a log ramp. Several
“Know of any Wreck around here, lady?”
times their beef had disappeared from
the hut while they were at work, so they
decided to sneak home early one after-
noon. They were nearly up to the open
side of the hut when a big goanna, around
6ft in length, came charging out and
escaped into the scrub. Next after-
noon the cutters silently approached the
hut from the scrub side, armed with
brush-hooks, and as the go. tried to
escape Joe headed him off, swing-
ing the hook threateningly. The
reptile changed direction and raced up
a dead bean-spar. “You’re mine, you
thievin’ cow!” exulted Stumpy as he
started to shin up the spar after him. The
go. watched proceedings from the top
of the bean, his beautifully-patterned
skin gleaming in the sunlight, Stumpy
was about Bft. from the top when Joe
called out urgently, “Look out there!
Stumpy glanced up quickly, in time to
see the goanna charging at him with its
mouth wide open. Stumpy yelled out
“Hell! ” dropped the hook and just let
go. He and the go. hit the ground
together, but the animated football-
guernsey started to run about three
seconds before the impact.
* _* _ T * .u * * ,
‘Anon : Blowfly Joe, the musterers
cook, stuck a stick in the sod to see if it
fZ7a k lL and ‘Talbor g d yoSg W'
he said to the latest jackeroo. “Ain’t you
heard of that? In Queensland, when I
was a young bloke, instead of ridin’ round
the cattle all night we useter just bore
a hole in a tree with an auger, back ’em
up pull their tail through, tie a knot
and they was right till morning.”
* * * *
“Eureka”: Aboriginal leaf-players are
invariably referred to as gumleaf players,
but few actually use the gumleaf. Most
performers I’ve seen prefer the wild-
lemon leaf to any other ; the leaves of the
Moreton Bay fig and the camphor-laurel
seem next in order of popularity.
* * * *
“R.H.G.”: I was once caught up in a
discussion about the horse’s ability to
head straight back for home from miles
out in strange bush. “In my opinion,”
an old-timer chipped in, “it’s because the
horse has got no brains.” Raised eye-
brows brought forth the elucidation. “Y’
see the horse doesn’t try to think about
where the camp is: he knows he wants
to get back, and jest heads straight for
it without any fooling about wondering
where he stands.” Since then I have
had many an opportunity to try this out
on my own bat. Leaving the truck in the
bush and cruising over timber country on
foot, I have found myself swinging round
confidently to head back to it, with my
mind on the timber—and then suddenly
pulling up and starting to nut out where
I left it. Immediately I did that I be-
came confused —the truck seemed to be
in several different directions. With the
old man’s theory in the back of my head
I have at once settled in to check up,
and invariably my first instinctive move
was the right one. -
* ♦ ♦ *
“Bo” ' Months before Parker’s tank-
stand had collapsed from dry-rot and
his 800-gallon round corrugated-iron tank
had tipped over and sprung a leak at a
seam. After repeated requests from
his helpmeet, Who had to drag all the
water from the well, the eternally-tired
Parker at last consented to do something
about it. After a strenuous week or so
he managed to get four logs in position,
On to these he rolled the empty tank,
putting it on its side. Fleming, his
neighbor, came over some time after-
wards and found Parker soldering a
longer length of downpipe from the roof
of the house to the intake vent of the
tank. “Gripes, Sid, why didn t y shove
the tank upright? Y’ could have used the
old bit of piping then; it’s still quite
good.” Parker sat down in the shade
of the house and indicated the space
alongside him for Fleming to lower his
frame. “Aw, it was too much trouble,”
he said. “I couldn’t be bothered.”
* * * *
“Tall Timbers”: Charlie and Billy, the
a bo. stockmen, had been on a jag. While
gjfiy was sleeping it off, Charlie spoke
OU £ Q f ifi s turn: result, three days with
labor. On the morning after his
serdence Charlie was led forth to do pen-
ance a j constable’s woodheap. Here
was discovered that he had a hand suffi-
ciently sore to render it unsuited to axe-
“Charlie,” the constable said,
“gifiy’s a good mate of yours, isn’t he?”
“Yes, Boss,” answered Charlie. “Good,
you can go and get him. You can do the
me and fi e can do the hard labor! ”
# *
The battery of our
Leonora (W.A.) goldmine was a 10-head
affair when erected m the last century,
There are only five left in operation. De-
spite the fact that it is constantly crush-
mg, there is a Java sparrow nesting in
each of the hollow-cast standards. The
noise and vibration are simply terrific,
and the only wonder is that the eggs the
spag lays aren’t addled before they can
be hatched. There are plenty of trees
about.
* * * *
C.A.L. : Though neither had ever
seen a sheep shorn, Fin and Blue had
sworn that they were shearers when the
National Service told them a local station
needed a couple of men to shear some
200 stragglers. Armed with a pair of
blades, each held a struggling sheep
standing on all fours on the board, each
looked at the other for a lead on how to
begin. Interestedly the manager watched
the pantomime, and when Blue, tiring of
the suspense, began to hack the cap from
his sheep, Fin did likewise, thinking the
procedure correct. “Why don’t you start
on its rump?” the boss facetiously
inquired. “0.K.,” replied Blue without
hesitation. “Suits me, if it’s all the same
to you,” and he straddled the ewe and
reached backward. Fin watched the en-
suing struggle for a moment, then dis-
gustedly dropped his tongs and let the
sheep go. “Must think a man’s a ruddy
rodeo-rider,” he growled, putting on his
coat.
THE TAILINGS HEAP.
Where the long grey shadows sleep
I can see the tailings-heap,
With the grey bush standing by:
The tailings, white and gleaming
Beneath the sunlight streaming,
Blazing hot before the eye.
I can smell the cyanide,
See the big vat deep and wide —
Oh, that ever-hungry vat!
Hear the trundling of the barrow
On the little planking narrow,
Where we shovelled and we spat.
I can hear the barrow-wheel,
Feel the planks beneath my heel
And the shovel in my hand;
And I’m filling, wheeling, turning
In that heat forever burning
In that hot and northern strand.
Oh, the tailings clear and white
In a burning memory’s light,
In that solitude profound;
Where long the heap’s been resting
Since the days when we went questing
For the gold within the mound!
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


m
Foresight in regard
to your Estate
ft. , I
What will happen to the Estate that you have
built up over a lifetime when your guiding hand
\is withdrawn?
Consider the advantages assured for his
dependents by a man who appoints Perpetual
Trustee Company (Limited) as his Executor and
Trustee, The Company is specially constituted to
carry out its duties. It has a record of sixty-two
years’ service to the community, whose confidence
in its business-like methods and its courteous,
sympathetic service has made it one of the largest
Trustee Companies in the world.
Write for a copy of the booklet “Your Executor
and Trustee ”, which describes the Company’s service
- also what it costs *
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
UNDER ADMINISTRATION AGENT UNDER POWER OF
EXCEED £67,000,000 (the • ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
average Estate being less than & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR,
£ 10,000). ETC.
Directors:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; B. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.; D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. G. ARMYTAGB, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAUWORTH and ORANGE
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
jACKSOiy
OSUIJJVAtt, /
SAW® fa*
*2*»s Vj*
tRADE
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“national” window face
ENVELOPES
. NATIONAL BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
NATIONAL FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
PROTECTA SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
NATIONAL WAXED MILK
' f BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES .
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and £Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
60LD.LABEL
Q
(h
(«/(I
¥
3
fes
rut
if-
n
'-i?>
>N\-
m
M
Blended Jot Good Tuste
The blending of excellent vintages gives Tintara
Gold Label Port its distinction. Every Wine
Show has declared Tintara Port a Champion.
That, too, is the verdict of its countless friends.
I often wonder what the Vintners buy. one half
so precious as the goods they sell.-* mar khayyam
- ' - ! cv, * ■ ' ~ '
tADB BY THOMAS HAEDY & SONS LTD., Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Credit and Industry
For the moment the question
of credit-creation as a national
economic factor is not being
widely debated. Money (paper
kind) is still available in abund-
ance—a dangerous abundance—
and it is lack of production that
is concerning the public mind,
not so much lack of credit,
though pressure for higher wages
continues. But export income
will not always be so high
as it is now, and the ability
of Governments to raise funds
to finance their huge Budgets
will not always be so easy.
“National credit” and “credit-
creation” will be words on
every “Labor” politician’s lips
as soon as the first chill wind of
world prices-recession strikes the
country. “Credit-creation” will
be “Labor’s” answer to the
problem of soaring costs and
shrinking output per man-hour
when economic disequilibrium
upsets the industrial applecart.
Mr. Chifley for many years
prior to his ascension to the
Prime Ministership was an
amateur economist who held
that credit-manipulation and
-finessing were the keys to pros-
perity and just the medicine for
depressions. During war-time
Mr, Curtin spoke in almost
inebriated terms about the vir-
tues of bank-credit expansion ;
it was to be used as required to
solve afl Australia’s post-war in-
dust r i a I and immigration
problems, meantime being em-
ployed on a vast scale to finance
war expenditure. And though
there may have been a wide dif-
ference between the political
objectives and economic tech-
niques of Australian “Labor”
politicians and world-renowned
economists like J. M. Keynes
and I. R. G. Hawtrey, certain
it is that “Labor” in Australia
would have found some sup-
port for its faith in credit-mani-
pulation as an economic cure-all
in the writings of both Keynes
and Hawtrey.
The Bulletin has always re-
garded the credit-manipulation
school as being very “woolly” in
their thoughts about what credit
really is. It has regarded credit,
from its most common form as a
personal loan to its most remote
shape in a central-bank advance
to a Government, as being essen-
tially “time to pay.” It has
always contended that credit, in
the ultimate, involves legal, per-
sonal obligations as well as
economic consequences. In
creating credit a debt is also
created. For‘that reason it did
not like Roosevelt’s New Deal,
based on Keynesian economics.
Loan moneys were raised in the
U.S.A. on a vast scale to finance
non - reproductive expenditure
without, apparently, a serious
thought as to the consequences
in the way of debt-burden, tax-
increases or inflation.
The war brought stimulation
of controversy about credit-
creation for the meeting of large
Government military expendi-
ture, though the general result
was that each country took the
line of least resistance, created
bank credit on a large scale to
finance war waste, and relied
upon legalistic “controls” to
stop, for the time being, the
inflation that was bound to
follow. The Bulletin at the
time took a long-term view of
the Australian economic picture,
and commented on Sept. 15,
1943:
Credit of any kind is merely “time
to pay,” and if evasion of payment
is tried —and a number of people have
the delusion that bank credit is a
means of evasion—someone has to
suffer. Where this evasion occurs in
the national affairs there is usually
currency depreciation or some other
indirect and inequitable taxation.
Credit-expansion being debt-expan-
sion, sober planning obviously should
precede the use of bank credit or any
other kind of credit to finance post-
war reconstruction. If you create
debt, you should create assets. It is
the belief here that any tested and
prudently planned, necessary enter-
prise, with a little benevolent initial
attention from credit-issuing authori-
ties, will find finance from the public
almost automatically, provided the
national economics are not in dis-
order and confidence is not generally
on the run. Enough has been already
said to indicate that any fancied
“costless credit” i§ taxation, and that
enterprises financed by central-bank
credit which do not prove successful
result in a waste of public money,
and then become a burden on the
people’s living.
But while unwise credit expansion
by Governments must result in na-
tional Budgetary problems eventually,
where debt is raised on an enterprise
the possibilities of which have been
carefully investigated and the estab-
lishment carried out efficiently, the
debt should result in no public bur-
den. Any well-planned enterprise
ought to earn more than the rate of
interest paid on public loans, and in
such cases it should be easy eventually
to replace Government money with
private investors’ funds if it is so
desired.
If Australia, after the war, is able
to plan new development of the
country’s resources that will meet
with a sustained response from buyers
or users of the goods or services to
be made available —export markets as
well as the home demand may have to
be considered —it will be perfectly
sound finance to extend such credit
as is necessary for the development.
But, apart from the initial financial
protection that may be necessary, in
many cases it will be advisable for
the Government to withdraw its finan-
cial interest as soon as possible.
Any policy of credit-expansion, to
be successful, must, in the main, con-
sider the chance of eventual repay-
ment of loan money out of the fruits
of the enterprises financed. Public
savings must be the basis of. estab-
lishment of permanent industrial
undertakings, and stability in the
currency and in foreign exchanges
must at all times be given serious
consideration. With an unstable cur-
rency, such as we see in Australia at
present, there can be very little real
confidence in the economic structure,
and eventually there comes a time for
a messy washing-up that does serious
damage in a variety of directions.
A vomiting of bank credit over the
Australian economy will not solve
any post-war problems of employ-
ment -or industry. Industrial plan-
ning and social conditions will form
the real basis of our progress or
regression. Industries, whether pub-
lic or private, will have to be able to
earn on a competitive basis, and to
do that they will need to be sanely
conceived and efficiently run. The
free splashing-round of money will
by itself have no more prospect of
success than did the rash investments
preceding 1893 or the outlay on
miniature golf courses that entirely
misjudged the available market of
indoor golfers 40 years later.
“Labor” in Australia, and
Keynes, Hawtrey and others,
have been critical of the virtues
claimed for saving. All were of
the opinion that saving could
lead to unemployment, the
economists named having more
logic in their argument than
“Labor” politicians, who were
often simply prejudiced against
the thrifty and desirous of grab-
bing for themselves, through
taxation or Government con-
fiscation, property that had been
established through the savings
of other people. “Labor” also
objected to the employment-
giving power that property often
bestowed on thrifty people, and
earnings from thrift have always
been subject to specially heavy
tax. “Labor” policy at present,
press advertisements to the con-
trary, favors the consumer and
discourages the investor and in-
dustrialist.
Again there has been woolly
thinking by the economists.
There is nothing fundamentally
wrong with thrift, and it has
most of the virtues which people
of another age have mostly
associated with it; but, like every
other factor in an economy, sav-
ings have to be put to work in
the most useful way if maximum
industrial activity (and employ-
ment) is to be derived from them.
Misdirected capital expenditure,
resulting in the waste of savings,
can be a dead loss to the com-
munity, and can cause economic
repercussions. But credit that is
“expanded” and wasted by a
Government is equally a loss to
the community, and the longer
the loss is disguised the greater
does its impact upon equilibrium
later become.
At the present time there is a
gross waste of public money
levied by a Socialistic Govern-
ment from the people in the form
of excessive taxation. Excessive
taxation for the present has re-
placed credit-creation. Instead
of being able to save their money
and invest it in new reproductive
assets, people are paying taxes
to the tune of hundreds of mil-
lions of pounds annually, and a
large proportion of that money
is not being reinvested in pro-
ductive assets by the Federal
Government or being used to
wipe out the national debt, but
is being squandered on an ex-
cessive civil service and in many
other ways that hinder instead of
aid the productivity of the
country —and it is productivity
which living standards depend
upon.
With the policy of Com-
muni sf - dominated trade-
unionism of doing as little as
possible for the highest possible
wage added, prices are rising more
steeply every day, and inflation
is “on” in a very real way.
“Full employment” has become
a farce because of economic
fallacies, wrong industrial plan-
ning by Governments, and indus-
trial indiscipline that has been
encouraged by the Federal and
N. S, Wales “Labor” Govern-
ments.
Socialisation of credit and in-
comes in Australia has not over-
come any of the deficiencies
claimed by “Labor” and Keynes
to exist in old-fashioned thrift
and private enterprise. Instead,
“Labor” is rapidly destroying
confidence and industrial effi-
ciency—factors vital in any pro-
gressive economy.
Modem (Non-lic’d) Hotels
In a letter to The Bulletin,
E. Hilton Long, architect and
structural engineer, now of Mur-
rumbeena (Vic.), says {inter alia),
regarding the review in B.
9/ 2 / ’49 of Modern (Non-
licensed) Hotels, that:
He and A. B. Gairn were appointed
builder and architect to the co. in
1938 (it was floated in 1936). They
were later appointed to the board,
but in a technical capacity only.
“We had nothing to do with matters
of finance Gairn and I had no-
thing to do with the co.’s early
history and were only interested in
carrying out a job of work.” In
order to help the co. each took out
most of his earnings in shares, mak-
ing application for 15,000 altogether.
The general meeting of 1945 unani-
mously agreed upon a resumption of
building activities and the reappoint-
ment of G. M. Foster (who had
received compensation when the
building scheme was suspended) upon
unchanged terms, but resumption of
operations was found to be imprac-
ticable. On retirement from the old
board both Long and Gairn made it
clear that they would help the new
board “in any way we could.”
Metropolitan Cement 155.-paid
shares have been selling around
14s. each in Sydney. The plant,
bought mostly second-hand from
the Ford Motor Co., U.S.A., has
arrived in Australia. L. J. Hart-
nett has resigned from the board.


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone: B.W. 8361. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States,
(|ou. kfwea
tk futf
(vas a pm.
You 9 re always
right with a
SWAN
Obtainable from Stationers, J eweliers and Stores
SWAN PENS
XABI £ JODD & CO. (AUST.) PTY. LTD., SYDNEY
A Swan is more
than a pen it’s a
team - mate. Well-
built, reliable, in-
stantly ready to
work with you and
soon gets used to
your ways for keeps .
BLOTCHY
, ’SKIN.
'g marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cnticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment. Soap and
Talcum Powder. . sjj
HOW THE “WALES” WORKS Services Series No. 6
TRAVELLERS’
CHEQUES
[lff
W'HEN you go away,
whether on family holi-
days, a business trip, or a
world tour, you will need
funds for your daily require-
ments.
It is risky to carry these funds
in cash. The tpodern, safe
means of payment for travellers
is Bank of New South Wales
Travellers’ Cheques.
You will find that these
cheques are readily cashed by
all banks and accepted by
principal tourist bureaux,
transport offices, hotels, res-
taurants and stores.
Bank of New South Wales
Travellers’ Cheques can be
bought at any branch of the
“Wales”,
ē
ĕ
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
The constituency of South
Hammersmith is, roughly speak-
ing, contained within a triangle
formed by Olympia, Shepherd’s
Bush Green and the north bank
of the Thames at Chiswick Eyot.
It is mostly a drab, rather
work-a-day suburb of three-
story Victorian terraces, squat
stone houses in late decay
and a variety of flats. No-
where, except perhaps in the
three or so blocks of luxury flats
or in the Regency houses whose
fronts overlook the river from
Hammersmith Mall, can the dis-
trict be said to house the well-
to-do.
Politically the constituency
was once a “safe” Tory seat; but
as outer suburbs developed so
did the majority decline. Labor
won it narrowly in 1929, lost it
overwhelmingly in 1931 and re-
gained it in the 1945 general elec-
tion by a majority of 3458 in a
total poll of 21,546. The result
of the most important Parlia-
mentary by-election of the
present term of office is at once
a blow to Conservative prestige
and a reversal to the hopes of
the growing numbers of Britons
who are sick of Socialism. That
the majority has been reduced
does not in any way minimise
the blow. (In a straight and
hard-fought contest the Socialist
was returned on February 24
with a majority of 1613 out of a
total poll of 28,833.)
Local Color
Everybody loves a close fight.
The residents of South Hammer-
smith certainly enjoyed their
share in this one. At first the
campaign followed the expected
lines. Both candidates were
good ones: they were young,;
they were carefully chosen ; and
they were well-matched. More
M.Ps. were to be seen in a single
night at one street-corner than in
a whole twelvemonth. There was
much robust good-humor at the
hustings ; and no one could con-
fidently forecast the result, even
up to the closing of the poll.
The bills “Vote for Fell,” in
Tory blue, were to be seen every-
where ; so were the Socialist
“Vote for Williams” —signifi-
cantly not in red, but in the
yellow that once proclaimed
Liberalism.
Only in the last few days did
bitterness intrude. It began with
the Socialists, was sustained by
the Socialists, and was, for the
most part, confined to the
Socialists. On the eve of the
poll it rose to fever-heat. There
were no fights, no missiles, no
manifestations of anger other
than by gesture and word and no
violence: but there was evidence
of irrelevant and unnatural in-
citement.
Red-herring
The technique by which work-
ing-class solidarity was attained
had nothing to do with the major
issues of the day except in so far
as they could be used, or mis-
used, to give topicality to the
speeches. Whether this tech-
nique was worked out before-
hand or sprang from audience-
reaction it is impossible to say:
but it certainly brought the
working-classes to the polls in
full representation. And it was
nothing more than the red-
herring. Hitler perfected its ex-
ploitation with one tag—Ver-
sailles —by hammering it out
hard and long. The Socialists in-
troduced another, familiar one—
Tory.
A Tory, it was said, had stated
in New Zealand that England
would never find its feet until
11 men were chasing 10 men’s
jobs. This assertion was shouted
and plugged, twisted and modi-
fied until every evil thing, real
or potential, was a result of
Tory policy. From the begin-
ning, when the Labor candidate,
Mr. Tom Williams, appeared on
the platform wearing a huge
rosette of yellow, streaked with
red, one speaker or another has
blamed the Tories for the two
world wars, for the price of
potatoes after the South African
war, for the slump, for as many
as 5,000,000 unemployed, for
opposing the National Health
Service, for the high price of
coal, for the shortage of houses,
for the law relating to leasehold
property —and even for the
present unemployment in the
film studios.
One more blatant example can
be given. The Communist
menace was an important issue
and an embarrassment to the
Socialists, for while they were
denouncing Communism from
the platform the Reds’ van was
patrolling the district advising
electors to vote Labor. Mr.
Williams categorically stated that
he was not a Communist, not a
fellow-traveller, and that he dis-
approved of the doctrine. He
was, he said, a Christian
Socialist in the tradition of
William Morris and Keir Hardy,
and believed that Democratic
Socialism could evolve from
capitalism without revolution. It
was the duty of Christian
Socialists, in the course of their
contacts with them, to convert
Communists to the right way of
thinking. But, he concluded,
Communism came into being
only when there was misery and
distress —and these, as often as
not, were the result of Tory rule.
Fear
Supporting speakers told, with
varying degrees of eloquence, of
what happened between the wars
and of what would happen if the
Tories were returned. Poverty
and malnutrition would be found
side by side with opulence. The
workers would be starving while
the Tories had yachts, luxurious
flats and five-figure incomes.
Silly? Yes, but not without
effect. As the contest grew more
bitter the appeal of truth faded
away. The yarn about the Tory
quoted earlier proved on exami-
nation to have been made, two
years ago, by a man who was a
Conservative M.P. before 1945
and was not re-elected. He actu-
ally said; “Before the world gets
to normal we must have 11
people wanting 10 jobs and 11
firms wanting 10 orders.”
It may be that few of us in
this country are without an
underlying element of insecurity,
living so close to the turmoil that
is Europe. But the result of
Socialist incitement had its
greatest effect upon the count-
less decent folk who have known
hard times and, in many cases,
still do. A suspicious murmur
spread and grew into hate.
While people still parted amic-
ably after arguments it was plain
that many were disturbed.
The red-herring has effectively
taken the minds of some people
from the real issues. It is the
most powerful weapon that the
Socialists have, whether as the
“vermin” of Mr. Bevan or the
claptrap of the soap-box orator.
But will it help us? Of
course not. Incipient . fear
scarcely seems a valid basis
for the building of a new Britain
any more than does the cheap
materialism of Socialist vote-
catching. The dangers lie con-
cealed and forbidding. It can
be expected that unscrupulous
politicians will use this pander-
mania to further their own ends;
and in Opposition it might, with-
out an effective counter, be even
more menacing.


l'l Ill’ll 13
ill
p
(HUy,
I
&WW4
HO ME-LI G HTIN G BAIT ERIES TO F U LFIL EVE RY
LIGHTING NEED BACKED BY 6 YEARS'. EXPERIENCE.
sm
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Captain Arthur Bell, drowned when
the Bombo foundered off Wollongong
(N.S.W.), got his master’s certificate in
England at 21-. Coming to Australia, he
was the first skipi>er of the John Williams
mission vessel :ift northern waters, before
transhipping to the blue-metal coasters
running along N.S.W.’s south coast.
An English scholar as well, as a first-
class seaman, he made something of a
fetish of collecting rare words, some of
which found a place in Webster’s. He
took time off to be in both World Wars,
and was 63 at the end.
In a Red Page review last year of
Captain P. G. Taylor’s book Forgotten
Island, the record of a Catalina survey-
flight in 1944 from Acapulco, Mexico, to
Sydney, the reviewer mentioned the fine
piece of writing in which Taylor described
how his flight-engineer rowed to the
moored flying-boat in a hurricane at
Clipperton Island, lonely in mid-Pacific,
and, starting her engines, flew her like a
kite at her moorings in the teeth of the
hurricane for seven hours. Last week the
flight-engineer, W.O. Donald Hicks, col-
lected a George Medal for his skilled gal-
lantry. The award recalls that Taylor
himself won a George Cross for his
display of courage when, attempting the
Tasman crossing in the Southern Cross,
in May, 1935, one engine conked through
an oilpipe failure. Taylor crawled out
on, the wing and fed the engine with oil
passed to him from the plane’s cabin in
a thermos-flask.
Heth presents here the friendly physog.
of George Webb, retired president of
Sydney Eastlakes Golf Club after having
managed that club’s affairs for the past
GEORGE WEBB, retiring golfer.
15 years. In his spare time off the course
Webb pursues the unusual profession of
shoe-last designing for the two firms in
Australia which manufacture them. He
hails from Northampton, in England,
the foot, as it were, of the boot-trade,
and had a spell designing in America
befo're coming to Sydney. Altogether
he’s designed about 4000 lasts, made of
American maple; among them de-
signs for tfre feet of the three
Services in World War 11. The Army
and Air Force asked for several different
designs, but the Navy was satisfied with
one —which, Webb stresses, has nothing
to do with the proverbial flatness of
Jack Tars’ feet. Most of the credit for
the bonhomie of Eastlakes Club goes to
this golfing veteran, who has holed in
one twice (corroborated) and is one of
the best of good fellows.
The Bradley family, of Melbourne,
whose parents trained every member to
t>e musicians, are carrying on the tradition.
Desmond, son of Reginald, the violinist,
started at four fingering his father’s fiddle,
at five passed his first examination and
gave his first public recital, was with-
drawn from circulation for further study
and made a reappearance lately at 14
£t the Assembly Hall in Melbourne, draw-
ing high praise from the critics. Kevin
Bradley, conductor, pianist and teacher,
has just seen a son, aged five, gain his
preparatory first-class certificate for piano
and his daughter, aged seven, got honors.
Other members of the family are Eileen,
who sings in Sydney, Charles, who teaches
in Adelaide, and violinist Leo. Norman
Bradley, ’cellist, was a brother.
When the Sydney Cymmrodorion
(Welsh) Society gets together on St.
David’s Day, as it did last week, there are
sure to be at least three special items
on the programme—a speech by Billy
Hughes, some excellent choral harmonics
and the, practised euphonies of Welsh
baritone Hubert Evans. With his wife-
accompanist Pat Siedle, Evans, who in
face and accent could pass for Monsieur
Boyer, gave concerts to the troops under
E.N.S.A. auspices from air-raid shelters
throughout the British Isles to front-line
camps in the Middle East, Syria and
Greece, and, in Persia at the time of the
Tehran Conference, gave a command
performance for the Persian Royal
Family. The Royal-and-rank reception
was so encouraging that when the couple
came here in 1946 they took their music
to Vic. and N.S.W. country towns, and
later 8.C.0.F. camps in Japan. Evans
won the baritone champion solo at the
Royal Welsh National Eisteddfod in Car-
diff in 1938, taught singing for many
years in Swansea, and is doing the same
here.
Crossed the bar at 64, after a long
illness, Francis McMurtrie. Though he
was a landsman, no seaman will object to
that term for his passing, reserved usually
for blue-water men. Before World War
II he was naval correspondent of the
“News-Chronicle,” in that war did the
same job for London “Daily Telegraph”
and since 1923 had been editor of Jane’s
Fighting Ships. A trained draughtsman,
he was an Associate of the Institution of
Naval Architects and was persona grata
with Directors of Naval Construction
during the time of his editorship. Fred
Jane, whose annual publication Mc-
Murtrie fostered so capably, also wrote
prolifically on naval affairs, and produced
his first Fighting Ships in 1898. For
years now it has been a standard recog-
nition work in British Commonwealth
Navies. But Jane himself never went to
sea.
“Jem” farewells an Anzac:
I first met Colonel Graham Butler, World
War I medical historian who died recently in
Canberra, leaning his stooped length over the
gunwale of one of the boats that landed his
crowd at Anz:ac Cove. That was in the
Australian War Memorial in Canberra, and,
surrounded by other arresting relics of The
Landing, he talked of that first rush across the
beach, when the sailor holding his medical bag
was shot through the heart. Butler waded
ashore, and into a tense press of work that
landed him three days later on the verge of
exhaustion. He struggled uphill with the first
wave, set up his Regt. Aid Post in Shrapnel
Gully, refused food and water for himself in
the Philip Sidney tradition, tended hundreds of
wounded and collected the only D.S.O. won by
an R.M.O. on Anzac. After a harsh spell in
the mud of a Somme winter, he returned to
private practice in Brisbane, when the then
Defence Minister, Sir Neville Howse, asked him
to write the A.A.M.S.’s war-history. He tackled
the jo.b with typical energetic sincerity, and
finished it in seven years, at the cost of his
eyesight and considerable private expense. It
won him the B.MA.’s Gold Medal in 1944.
Born in Kilcoy, Q., Butler graduated
B. M.B. and B.S. from St. John’s College,
Cambridge. At the end he was still attached
to the War Memorial’s library, a quiet, schol-
arly gentleman among the records and relics,
who would accept no salary because he could
hardly see.
There were two unusual admissions to
the Victorian Bar last week. One was
Hans Erich Clahr, who before the last
war sat on the bench for three years in
Germany and is a doctor of laws of
Konigsberg University. The other was
Michael Joseph de Riva O’Phelan, head
of the clan of O’Phelans of Decies, Eire.
A first-degree graduate of political
science in the National University of
Ireland, he holds a post-graduate degree
which requires a knowledge of French,
Roman, German and ancient Celtic law.
Medico air vice-marshal in the last war,
Thomas Ernest Victor Hurley, C. 8.,
C. V.D., steps into the Federal
presidency of the B.M.A. Born in Mel-
bourne, the son of a school inspector,
he was educated at Wesley and Queen’s
College, left Australia with the 2nd Field
Ambulance in the 1914 war, was one of
the brilliant front-line surgeons, and col-
lected a C.M.G. in 1917. He headed the
R.A.A.F. medical service in the recent
scrap and is a member of the medical
advisory committee to the Repat. Com-
mission. His first job will be to preside
over the medicoes’ deliberations on Can-
berra’s free medical scheme. He is 61.
Douglas Glass, owner of the accom-
panying magnificent growth of seaweed,
at least hasn’t let any grass grow under
his feet since he was born in Auckland
in 1904. For the last 25 years he has
been racing about Europe, lecturing,
painting and taking photographs. He is
a specialist of the camera who believes in
bringing his people home alive, in their
natural settings, instead of stiffened in
the hard light of commercial photo-
DOUGLAS GLASS,
“Who’s Who” cameraman.
graphy. He has briefly been visiting
Australia and is shortly to go back to
England to photograph for the “Sunday
Times” 50 leading European personalities,
beginning with Churchill and Attlee.
Meeting him is rather like talking to
Who’s Who: he has photographed T. S.
Eliot, Roy Campbell, Shaw, Augustus
John, Picasso, David Low and
Walter de la Mare, who told him not to
miss Hugh McCrae in Australia, because
“1 consider him a very distinguished
poet.” He has photographed here
Katharine Susannah Pricnard, Eleanor
Dark, Henrietta Drake-Brockman, Ernes-
tine Hill, Walter Murdoch and Norman
Lindsay; went after Namatjira, but the
aboriginal artist had gone bush and Glass
had no camels to follow him.
The laugh measured here by Mcßeath
belongs to Norman Martin, Victoria’s
Agent-General in London, who gathered
a “Sir” in the New Year’s honors, and
had the seal put on it by the
King at Buckingham Palace last week.
He hails from the farming district
of Cohuna (Vic.), and has been a coun-
cillor of the shire since its inauguration,
and its president twice. Schooled at Werri-
bee, he comes of an old English farming
family, and has pioneered in irrigation
agriculture, his knowledge of which got
him the post of Minister of Agriculture
during the reign of Albert Dunstan. A
C.P. man, Martin was well out of the
recent rumpus between Libs and Dun-
NORMAN MARTIN, new knight.
stan, and wasn’t called upon to make a
decision. Now he’s no doubt trying to
decide to which of the Vic. Country
parties he belongs.
Professor Douglas Copland, who gets
the high academic distinction of member-
ship of the American Philosophical
Society founded by Benjamin Franklin,
foreign members of which are limited to
75, is now in the company of knight
Hubert Wilkins, R. H. Tawney, the
British economic historian, William
Bragg, of South Australia, and Dr. Hu
Shih, the eminent Chinese scholar. An-
other member is Dr. Luigi Einaudi, a
world authority on public finance and
now President of the Italian Republic.
Maxwell Gavin Anderson, who has
passed on in Adelaide at 87, had been
connected with shipping since 1882, when,
having completed his education at Aber-
deen University, he went to New Zealand
for the Union S.S. Co. Five years later
he joined the Orient Line and became its
Adelaide manager. At the turn of the
century Anderson established his own
business in Adelaide —shipping and in-
surance agent and conducting the agency
of the Orient Line. He was a man whose
faculties developed rather than declined
with advancing years, and he was still
in harness at the end. He was chairman
of directors of the Adelaide and several
smaller shipping concerns, a director of
Australian National Airways and of J.
and A. Brown-Abermain Seaham Col-
lieries. One of the first to play golf
in South Australia, he was a founder of
Royal Adelaide Golf Club.
For nearly 50 years Sydney Uni. has
maintained its own military regiment.
Present C.O. is Colonel Colin Grace,
D. 5.0., a vigorous believer in the
regiment's value as an officers’ training
unit. He should be, for the military train-
ing he left with, as well as his arts and law
degrees, proved a stout rod when Hitler's
outbreak found him in command of the
2/15th Infantry Battalion. His outfit
boarded at Tobruk, advanced at Alamein,
and, after a short spell home, landed at
Lae and Finsch.’s Scarlet Beach, before
going ashore at Brunei. The battalion
belonged to the 20th Brigade, of which
the remaining two, the 2/13th and 2/Uth
Battalions, as well as the brigade itself,
were all commanded by University Regi-
ment men, and were all in Tobruk and
following shows together. Grace was
“Honi Soit’s” second editor and director
of student publications during his ’Varsity
time, is now an administration manager
at Commonwealth Industrial Gas in
Sydney, and claims his gong was actually
awarded to a very fine battalion.
The career of Thomas Burke, dead at
78 in Melbourne, was one of those suc-
cess stories beloved of movie-producers.
Born at Ararat (Vic.), he was a railway
clerk for 17 years before conceiving the
idea that Melbourne needed provision for
a population of two millions. He was a
pioneer in the subdivision business, and
there was genius in the way he did it.
Starting in 1914 with 12 salesmen, trained
by himself, he divided the emptiness be-
yond the outer suburbs into small blocks
and hired artists to make the prospects
pleasing. The streets laid out, the sign-
posts, the spaces for parks, schools and
churches can still be met in paddocks
beyond the city’s skyline. All capital cities
came into his orbit, and by 1924 he was
paying a princely income-tax. He turned
to horses, acquired a team as successful
as his land deals, and six years later sold
his stables to indulge in charitable pro-
jects ; his donations earned him a C.M.G.
As a member of the Australian Natives
Association he was in the van of the
Federation fight.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 69, Captain Isaac Burch, Q.
Deputy Director of Navigation and Lighthouses
from 1936-44. He had 23 years at sea, three
of them in command, and served with the R-M
in China in 1900, Old Diggers will remember
hospital- and troop-ship Wandilla, of whicn
Captain Burch was chief officer.
At Essendon (Vic.), at 78, J. J. Kenneally, a
pioneer of the A.L.P. and author of The Inner
History of the Kelly Gang, considered the most
authoritative work on Ned’s life.
In Sydney, Thomas Waites, Government
statistician for 13 years and Registrar ot
Friendly Societies and Trade-unions. He re-
ported on Douglas Credit in 1932, was with
the 14th Field Engineers in World War 1.
collecting a serious wound at Arras in 1916, ana
in the next outbreak returned from retiremen.
to the Bureau of Statistics.
In Melbourne, Lou Clifford, scratch rider on
track and road in Victorian cycling. He won
several championships, among them the one
mile Championship Derby, the 25-miles Road
Championship, 50-miles Road Championship,
and at one time held the 10-miles Victorian
road record. An accident ended his racing
career and for over 20 years he was active m
the administrative side of the sport.
At Colac (Vic.), John Duncan Mcßride,
builder of the West Melbourne Stadium ano
Mount Buffalo Chalet.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
For a couple of hoffrs before she
sailed the Dominion Monarch was the
scene of the utmost confusion. Almost
every passenger was giving a party, and
friends were dashing here and there and
everywhere looking for their own par-
ticular host or hostess, or with glass
clutched in one hand and a savory in the
other they were rushing off to say good-
bye to some other lucky traveller. Some-
how the impossible happened, and all
visitors got ashore more or less safely.
Then came a dash for cars, and a scurry
to get out of the crush and away to some
headland to watch the ship sail away.
Every house on the waterfront, too, had
its watchers. There was no moon, the
sky was clear, the waters smooth, and
the headlands almost black, and as she
sailed down the harbor, all aglitter with
lights, the Dominion Monarch looked like
a fairy-ship in which every traveller’s
dreams could come true.
It’s fortunate that good wishes are
stored in the memory and not in travel-
ling-cases, otherwise Lady Fisk would
have been deluged with luggage when she
left by the Dominion Monarch for
London. For weeks now there have been
farewell luncheons, teas and dinners. On
Monday the W. A. Donner couple (he’s
managing-director of the Gramophone
co.) gathered together about 60 friends
for a final toast to the home-going
voyager. This five-to-seven party was at
Ushers’, and had all the ingredients to
make it one to remember. Everyone knew
each other, the buffet literally groaned
under the weight of good things to eat,
the drinks were super. The hostess was
smart in brown crepe. But it was on the
plume that circled her hat the gaze
lingered ; this started off brown, but by the
time it trailed over the brim it was golden.
The Fisk lady’s blue-grey frock was
long and full, a small fluted peplum giving
distinction to the bodice. Major Manley
and his attractive wife were there; silver-
grey jersey made her late-afternoon frock.
Her small matching hat had pink roses
on its brim, the exact shade of her long
kid gloves. The A. L. Robbs, Mrs. Ray
Allsop and E. S. Wolfenden were others
noted in the moving groups.
The Loreto Ex-Students’ Ball will be
held on Monday at the Trocadero. This
is to aid the school’s bursary fund. Mrs.
Tom Bateman is the president of the ball
committee, Sheila Benton and Eileen
Crewes the hon. secretaries, and Dr.
Teresa Carmichael the matron of honor.
She will present 24 debs, to Lord Mayor
O’Dea and the Lady Mayoress.
St. Mark’s, Darling Point, was massed
with pink tiger-lilies and carnations for
the wedding of Pat, only daughter of the
George Watsons, of Hampton Court, to
Joseph Tatharn, son of the C. R.
Tathams, of Blackpool, England. The ser-
vice was fully choral. The bride’s frock
was of white satin, her veil a voluminous
affair of pearl-embroidered tulle. There
were three ’maids in pastel shades (butter-
cup, lilac and lemon) of organdie. The
reception was held at the Australian
Golf Club, where the bride’s parents en-
tertained about 150 guests. The skirt of
Mrs. Watson’s frock was of black nylon
over satin —the bodice of black Chan-
tilly lace over pink chiffon ; her small
black hat was osprey-swathed.
Of interest to our men on the land is
the news that Mrs. M. H. Mason,
daughter of Lord Stonehaven, former
Governor-General of Australia, has made
a name for herself all over England as
a judge of cattle, and that she herself
has an Aberdeen-Angus stud in Oxford-
shire. Her mother, who is at present
visiting Australia, is taking back with her
all latest information about our cattle.
Lady Stonehaven, who is accompanied
by her sister, Lady Hilda Keith Falconer,
will visit Queensland and New Zealand
and Papua before she returns home. At
Canberra they will be the guests of
Governor-General McKell and Mrs.
McKell.
Dr. Mackaness wasn’t going to let
Aubrey Halloran or Walter Williams put
anything over him at speech-time when
Sir Reginald Coupland gave a talk to
the Royal Historical Society last week.
He got in first with Chaucer’s five-
centuries-old “The Clerkes Tale”:
“A clerk ther was of Oxenforde also.”
Very apt, too, as Sir Reginald is the Beit
Professor of English at Oxford. Aubrey
and Walter managed to get in a few
complimentary remarks also, and if the
guest blushed at all the lights were too
dim to see it.
Sir Reginald asked if he might sit
while he gave his talk. He said every
Professor at Oxford has a Chair, but he
is the only one who sits in one. When
he was comfortably settled, he took his
listeners to India, telling' of some of his
meetings with that country’s leaders; of
the magnificent palaces of Jinnah and
Nehru, of these men’s culture. But it
was the austerity of Gandhi’s way of
life that stayed in the memory. At supper
Sir Reginald was surrounded by young
things. Mrs. Mackaness and Mrs. S. G.
Howe, and former Mitchell Library chief
Hugh Wright, slipped into the drawing-
room for their chat. Monica Flower,
Blanche d’Alpuget, Mollie Oxley and
Nora Seppelt were among the noted.
Valda Scales, pictured here by Norton
Trevaire, sails in May for U.S.A., where
she will marry Owen Kempthorne, Re-
search Professor of Statistics in Agricul-
ture at lowa State College. Valda,
who is the daughter of the A. D.
Scaleses, of Coogee, knows a bit
about this subject, too. She is a
B.Sc. of Sydney University. During the
war she was attached to U.N.R.R.A.
In 1946 she was sent to the Philippines
as agricultural analyst. Here she assisted
in making a survey of the Pacific Islands
to determine the destruction caused by
the war to agriculture. China was her
next appointment, thence to lowa, where
she gained her M.Sc. in agricultural
economics at the State College.
Professor Kempthorne is a Cam-
bridge (England) graduate. After
the wedding Mr. and Mrs. Kempthorne
will live in lowa until the end of the
year; then they go to France, where he
has an appointment at the Sorbonne,
After that Cambridge will be the scene
of his labors.
Until last week there was only one
woman, the Alexander Gordon lady, at
present in England, who had been made
a life member of the A.B.C. Sydney
Symphony Orchestra committee and had
a gold badge testifying to it. Now Mrs.
Walter Swinson and Mrs. Hope Gibson
have been awarded their gold medallions
of merit. These were presented by
A.B.C. chairman R. J, H. Boyer. In
thanking the committee and everybody
for coming to the party, Mrs. Swinson
recalled that when she, the Alexander
Gordon lady and Mrs. Hubert Fairfax
were appointed, the then A.B.C. chair-
man, W. J. Cleary, had called them the
Three Musketeers, and sent them out
with his blessing, to make the symphony
orchestra a vital thing in the life of Sydney.
There were only 100 subscribers then ;
now there are 6000. And, as Mrs. Gib-
son said after she had modestly received
her medallion, the might be
satisfied when the number reaches 10,000.
All this took place in the Royal Empire
Society's drawing-room in a setting of
roses, asters and gladiolias. There was
tea and ice-creamed fruits brought by Mrs.
Macartney to finish up with. At the
party were Mrs. Boyer and Mrs. Gibson’s
mother, Mrs. Denmark, very proud of the
shoulder-sprays presented to them. The
Anderson lady, who received the guests,
later in the afternoon presented Mrs.
Swinson and Mrs. Gibson with hand-
bags, handsome enough to be carried on
occasions when the medallions are worn.
Mrs. Charles Moses, Mrs. Rupert Scam-
mell, in an all-white outfit, Miss Jobson,
Mrs. Walter Burfitt and the Claude
Plowman lady were among those who
added their congratulations to the after-
noon’s importants.
Here is something to make you think:
The Junior Red Crossers have sent 61,000
garments to England since 1940. Many
of these have been made by these small
girls. In addition, they have sent £3750-
worth of 10s. food parcels. The money
for these parcels has been raised by these
indefatigable workers. They have run
bazaars, often in backyards, or have made
the money by doing odd jobs. Soon they
will be busy raising money to send a
cargo of sweets to English children.
Mostly the gifts from the Junior Red
Crossers go to sick children, invalids or
orphanages.
From Melbourne
At a late-afternoon party at Kumeh,
the South Yarra home of knight Norman
Brookes, an appeal to raise £30,000 for
the Queen Victoria Memorial Hospital
was launched. The Brookes lady has
been president of the hospital for many
years. When she first became president
the in-patients treated numbered 943.
This year the total is 7908. She and her
committee hope by the appeal to com-
plete the reconstruction of the maternity
block. Among the 200 guests were repre-
sentatives of many business firms and
women’s organisations. Mrs. Clarence
Weber is organiser of the appeal. Plans
include a Queen Victoria pageant in the
Town Hall and a market fair at the
hospital.
Hostesses for the party given in the
Returned Nurses’ clubrooms to fare-
well Miss H. D. Grey, lady superinten-
dent of the Royal Melbourne Hospital
and president of the Royal College of
Nursing, were the college’s vice-presi-
dents, Misses A. M. Sage and E. L. Shaw.
Miss Grey will lead the Australian dele-
gation to the 50th Anniversary Congress
of the International Council of Nurses
to be held in Sweden. Organisers of the
party were Misses M. Connor and Helen
Clancy. Two other delegates to the Con-
gress, Miss *B. Mcßae, matron of St.
Andrew’s Hospital, and Miss N. I.
Hackett were also at the party. Miss
C. W. Lelean will deputise for Miss Grey
during her absence.
Among the luncheon guests of Mrs.
Norman Robinson, wife of the V.A.T.C.
chairman, at Caulfield on Saturday were
Mrs. Myron M. Cowen, wife of the U.S.
Ambassador, whose beige frock and
matching jacket were worn with a small
brown hat trimnjed with muted green
and beige flowers, and Mrs. Samuel J.
Fletcher, wife of the U.S. Consul-General,
who wore with her jacket-suit of navy
wool a small navy beret. Mrs. Robin-
son’s ensemble was of navy lightweight
wool. A jacket-suit in deep-brown ton-
ings and a matching hat made neat
alliance for Mrs, W. K. Burnside. Mrs.
Alfred Fowler’s burnt-amber straw hat
had trimmings of black tulle tulips.
Mrs. Ten Buxton, in a lime-green
suit, watched her horse. Sir Razzle,
win the Futurity. Cynthia Salisbury’s
Christian Dior coat was of white cotton
material; the skirt, with its four linings,
was very bouffant, large box-pleats at the
back adding to the fullness ; her black
velvet cap had a scarf finish. Her sister
Lorna’s black faille jacket-suit had a
peplum finishing the tight-fitting jacket;
her ' white straw hat was trimmed with
black tulle and white-spotted veiling.
Photographer John Duncan shot this
delightful study of his wife, Audrey, who
is the only daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
P. Vaughan, of Parkville. Recently
Audrey celebrated her 21st birthday by
giving a late-afternoon party and then
ended the celebrations at Claridge’s.
As well as being receptionist for her
husband, Audrey is a professional model
for other photographers.
A gala picture-night will be held at
the Village Theatre, Toorak, on March
31 in aid of the Victoria League’s Food-
for-Britain-Fund. The chief care of the
committee at the moment is old and in-
valid pensioners of the Royal United
Kingdom Beneficent Association whose
total income, in many cases, does not ex-
ceed £7O a year. The Acting-Governor
of Victoria, Sir Edmund Herring, and
his lady have given their patronage to
the picture-night. The Premier and Mrs.
T. T. Hollway will also be there. The
booking has opened at the Village
Theatre, Toorak ; at the Victoria League
in Collins-street; and with the ticket-
secretaries, Ann Bailey, Win. 4783 ;
Elizabeth Cahill, Haw. 279 ; Jocelyn Bot-
tomley, U 3629; Mrs. Eric Ross, 14
Domain Road, South Yarra ; and Mrs.
Basil Dunn, 14 Pine Grove, Malvern.
At a combined luncheon-party and
press-conference at the Lyceum Club
Mrs. W. E. Agar unfolded the plans of
the committee, of which she is president,
which is arranging the first com-
plete exhibition of paintings of war-time
Britain by Australian artist Norma Bull
in the Lower Town Hall. A preview
has been arranged for Saturday, May 14.
The committee hopes that 20,000 people
will visit the exhibition, which will aid
the British Memorial Fund and the
mission church of St. Mary, Fitzroy.
Mrs.fr G. R. Nicholas has arranged an
informal party on March 17 at her
Toorak home at which a few of Miss
Bull’s pictures will be on view. There
will also be a garden-party open to the
public at the artist’s home at Surrey Hills
on April 23. Both these functions have
been arranged to provide money to cover
the expenses of the exhibition.
It was an all-white wedding for
Patricia Caroline, youngest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Sykes, of Elwood,
when she exchanged vows at Wesley
Church with Phillip Henry, younger son
of Mr. and Mrs. W. Leffler, of Clifton
Hill. The bride’s Empire gown was of
white brocade, the bodice having long
sleeves and the new shawl-neckline, while
the full skirt extended into a train. The
diamond-and-pearl coronet belonging to
her mother held the bridal veil in place,
and her bouquet was of gardenias. Her
attendants were her sister, Mrs. Maurice
Dowd, and Avril Goldstone ; they were
frocked alike in bouffant gowns of white
tulle, and they carried bouquets of tube-
roses. Hugh Leffler was his brother’s
best man. Reception was at the New
Alexander, where Mrs. Sykes received
the guests in a gown of burgundy, gold-
threaded crepe and a small forget-me-not
blue velvet hat. Mrs. Leffler’s cocktail-
frock was of saxe-blue crepe. Mrs. T.
J, Dowd’s filmy black-tulle gown was
embroidered in gold and red flowers.
Sister of the bride, Mrs. Gordon Wil-
liams, allied a blqck crepe three-tiered
skirt with a short-sleeved blouse of
black broderie Anglaise ; her hat was of
black straw. Mrs. Philip Goldstone wore
a bouffant frock of primula-toned tulle
and a matching silver-sequined sari.
The first all-Australian fashion-parade
sponsored by the Australian Guild of
Fashion for the University Women’s
College Building Appeal wa& held in the
Lower Town Hall. The gala atmo-
sphere was heightened by the presence
of the Acting-Governor’s lady, who wore
a gown of garnet-red velvet under a
long fitting black-velvet coat. Myra
Roper, principal of the University
Women’s College, was in black-and-gold-
threaded taffetas. Kathleen Syme, presi-
dent of the Building Appeal committee,
was graceful in flowing black' crepes.
Vera Pritchard’s gown was of pale-blue-
and-silver lame, and featured a panniered
full skirt and low-cut bodice which had
elbow-length detachable sleeves. Mrs.
L. J. McConnan’s pale-lilac gown was
worn with a hip-length matching jacket.
Mrs. Bruce Wenzel’s striped-taffeta skirt
was a mixture of mauve, pink and deep
mauve, the bodice being rf black taffeta.
Mrs. Fred Dennett wore filmy black lace.
Mrs. Des Barrington’s laces were in a
deep-red. Mrs. Graham Nathan’s period
gown was in hibiscus-red. Mrs. John
Chaldjian’s royal-blue gown had a match-
ing jacket edged with gold embroideries.
Mrs. Marchant Penfold, who was one
of the ticket-secretaries, combined white
net and taffeta effectively ; the red jacket
which covered it was sewn with multi-
colored stones. Mrs. Geoff Cohen, an-
other of the ticket-secretaries, contrasted
her white decollete blouse and black
crepe skirt with a wide swathing of
gold crepe at the waist. Organiser of the
appeal, Mrs. J. G. Mason, wore a dinner-
gown of powder-blue crepe. Thelma
Rowell’s full-skirted black faille gown
had silver-leaf embroidery on the bodice.
Douglas Cox, just returned from Eng-
land and the Continent, where he
arranged for Parisian designer Christian
Dior to pay a visit, says that Dior has
ordained that skirts, this season, will be
13in. to 14in. from the ground. His new
colors include muted greys, many shades
of green, orchids, mauves, three shades
of navy, a new tan and the wheat and
gold colors. There is also a new red;
red-burgundy. Impressions, gathered
abroad by Douglas Cox are: London is
still supreme in tailored clothes, and
Rome has the world’s best-dressed
women.
Guests at the informal cocktail-party
hostessed by Peggy. Bernaldo at her
Brighton home were given a preview
of the oils and watercolors which
husband Allan will exhibit later in the
year. Peggy’s black crepe frock was
embellished by a chiffon, bead-encrusted
yoke. Mrs. S. Aarons topped with a small
lime-yellow felt hat trimmed with black
ospreys her black frock. Mrs. W. Mc-
Dermott’s black pleated cocktail skirt was
worn with a white blouse etched with
designs of American music-halls, outlined
with colored sequins. Gertrude Cottrell
put black lace effectively over turquoise
taffeta. The jacket of Mrs. Leith Crow’s
black suit had a black satin flared peplum.


IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPpRATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:-~*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies
SHIPPING— INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
V
viltsa
uff
Rel 21 *
verY
c^sxj^
of
litY
qua
tlae
of
oves
bl©2^
P*
ow
st^S
Ca
leaf
Vxrg itlX
f ia©
r
&
N
\
\
v\
e
yZn&JrH
CAPSTAN
FAVO|]REII;CIGARETTE
713 D-10.48
THE SERVICE MAN
Defences Under Fire.
“Ek Dum”: The week just
ended might justly have been de-
clared as a “national-defence
week.” All the newspapers
which in 1942 were in favor of
the Communist party’s plan for
“a people’s army” and “scorched
earth” which would destroy as
much of the “exploiters’ ” per-
sonal property as possible and
help provide the means to a
revolution are at work on the
defence problem. So are some
Ministers who, in 1939-40, were
against sending the A.I.F. to
fight Hitler and who followed a
fellow-traveller line to the effect
that the building of defence
facilities was useless because we
would never be invaded, and
that “the best service we could
do Britain was to keep our men
at home and grow food for
Britain.”
These fellows are now great
warriors defending themselves
against some of their former
newspaper allies or giving forth
the most weird and wonderful
ideas.
Mr. Chambers, Minister for
the Army, is one of these. He
adopts a fatalistic air about mili-
tary service. He says that it
does not matter, in effect, because
even if we had an army of
200,000 or 600,000, one atom-
bomb would destroy large quan-
tities of them. So a few push-
buttons and a lackadaisical
militia are his meat.
His speech on the New Guinea
bill was characterised by a base
attack on the previous Govern-
ment for having had 2000 men
in Rabaul when the attack from
Japan came. “You lost 1000 of
them,” he said. And he said that
Moresby was undefended at that
point and blamed the Liberals
for it.
Actually, the attack on Rabaul
took place in the last week in
January, 1942, and the Menzies
Government had been out of
office since October 6, 1941, two
months before the Japanese
attacked Pearl Harbor.
Only a few weeks before the
Curtin Government took office
the present Deputy Prime
Minister, Dr. Evatt, was pub-
licly supporting the objective of
a body of Communists—their
party was illegal—who were or-
ganising vicious strikes in muni-
tion factories in order to get out
of internment two convicted
Communist officials who had
been caught red-handed planning
sabotage of arms production and
a scheme to “turn every factory
into a fortress of revolution.”
Next came Mr. Drakeford.
The “S. M. Herald” had gently
chided the defence authorities
and made the awful accusation
that the Royal Australian Air
Force had only one modern
fighter aircraft in 50 —allegedly
on the authority of the Chief of
the Air Staff. '
In this the R.A.A.F. was done
a great injustice.- It has two
modern fighter aircraft alto-
gether.
Mr. Drakeford, however, is in-
dignant. He and some of his col-
leagues have, been at great pains
to assure the country that “if
war broke out every one of the
aircraft being used in the current
R.A.A.F. exercises would be
suitable for battle.”
“Preparations,” he added mag-
niloquently, “have been made
for the Air Force to be equipped
with aircraft suitable to meet
possible and probable future re-
quirements.” And he accused the
newspaper of publishing “some-
thing which had no factual foun-
dation,” and charged it that
“misrepresentation has been re-
sorted to recklessly and for poli-
tical purposes.”
But, for once, honors appear
to be with the press, judging by
the air displays which were being
given in Sydney on March 4.
According to the evening
papers it was a devastating affair
—a “bombing raid, on the
Harbor Bridge by combined
R.A.A.F. squadrons.”
“Combined” was right. The
force used was equal to about a
third of the striking-power used
by the Japs against Darwin on
February 19, 1942—44 aircraft
all told, comprising a few heavies
(Lincolns), 17 Mustangs, eight
Mosquitoes, six Beaufighters,
three Catalinas and—the only
machines which are not on the
immediate scrap-list overseas for
front-line service, except the
Lincoln, with which Britain will
continue to make do until it gets
some jet-bombers in approxi-
mately four years—two Vam-
pires.
To make it up the R.A.A.F.
had to draw on four stations—
Melbourne, Sydney, Canberra
and Brisbane.
The performance was inflated
by the press publicity of the
R.A.A.F. and gullible reporters
into the semblance of an attack
which could have paralysed
Sydney.
The Mosquitoes were credited
with carrying 80,0001 b. of
“blockbusters” —five tons per
machine! and their pilots
allegedly claimed that “after they
had finished with the bridge” the
Lincolns “had nothing left to
“It looks like a ‘ foreignerPrendergast; but what d’you
suppose it is?”
bomb.” Anyway, even at shprt-
range they could have carried
only a maximum of 80 tons of
bombs.
Apart from the fact that Mos-
quitoes carrying five tons apiece
would be sitting birds even for
the obsolescent Mustang and
probably for ack-ack fire in
these days, it should be remarked
that when, a million tons of
bombs had been dropped on
Germany most of the bridges
across the Rhine were still intact.
There were some bridges which
had absorbed hundreds of tons
without being permanently im-
mobilised bridges about a
fifteenth of the fighting weight
of the Harbor Bridge.
The Lincolns “had fighter
cover of Mustangs and Beau-
fighters”—the latter would have
been blown out of the sky by a
really modern fighter squadron—
and the whole ambling mass
“jumped the city out of a cloud
mass flying at heights from 500 ft.
to 1500 ft.” It would have about
as much chance of jumping a
city with a modern radar service,
cloud or no cloud, as a blowfly
would of jumping Hades.
Meanwhile, Canberra Minis-
ters comfort the public with the
assurance that defence is “years
ahead of pre-war standards,”
thanks to the vigor and en-
thusiasm of the “Labor” party —
which used all the vigor and en-
thusiasm of which it was capable
in 1939 to prevent us having any
defence at all, outside “300 aero-
planes” which were considered
sufficient force to ward off any-
body who might desire to take
this continent. It was a sine qua
non of “Labor” policy in those
days that no move must be made
against an enemy until he had
come inside the three-mile limit,
though the approach of the Jap-
anese to within 3000 miles of
Sydney set every former op-
ponent of defence screaming for
“25 divisions,” which the British
and Americans were to provide,
because Australia supposedly
was “essential to world defence.”
It is perfectly true that, in
physical terms, Australia has
more weapons and a greater
actual potential for defence pro-
duction than in 1939. But the
striking-power of the outside
world has developed to such an
extent that we are relatively
worse off than in that year.
Moreover, costs have gone up
so much and working conditions
have so changed for the worse
and morale has thudded so
heavily that from a defensive
point of view we are in a bad
way.
It can be taken for granted
that if we are at war with Russia
one of two things will happen:
(1) By putting forward tempting
demands for immense increases in
wages, more leisure,, slower work, the
leaders of the Communist unions will
create chaos in the process of imple-
menting the policy so successfully
carried out by Mr. Ernie Thornton
before Russia was attacked by Ger-
many—“ War is the time for the
workers to make demands and im-
prove their standards the strike is
their weapon.., .we have made strikes
our business.”
(2) The Communist leaders will go
straight out for the policy of wel-
coming the Russians and their allies —
they are the only potential enemy at
present —as “they were welcomed by
the liberated countries of Europe.”
This is the official policy of the Com-
munist party as put forward by
Comrade Sharkey, its leader.
It is a pity a few officers and
men of the A.I.F. and R.A.A.F.
who saw the nightmare arrival
of the Russians in some of the
countries of Europe cannot be
detailed to tell the people of Aus-
tralia exactly what sort of a busi-
ness it was. Some of them find
it getting between them and their
sleep even four years afterwards.
Some of the A.I.F. prisoners-of-
war who fell into Russian hands
during the liberation of Poland
escaped with their fives; some
didn’t.
The position of defence in
Australia at present is that it has
no Air Force and no Navy which
could stand on its own feet for
10 minutes against a competent
enemy.
The Army could not produce
a fully-trained battalion of
troops. It could not send an ex-
peditionary force capable of
warding a brigade off New
Guinea within, a matter of
months,
Mr. Chifley admitted during
the week that there are delays in
the delivery of almost every fonn
of war material, including ships
and nearly all kinds of arma-
ment and aircraft.
In the past two years the de-
fence expenditure was nearly
£20,000,000 below the amount in
the estimates.
So far in eight months of re-
cruiting only 14,000 volunteers
have been obtained for the
Citizen Forces —28 per cent, of
the requirement, despite enor-
mous advertising.
The R.A.N. has in seagoing


f The establishment and growth of
the Australian Wool Manufacturing
Industry was a natural development of
the Wool Producing Industry. Pro-
ducing the world's finest wool, it was a
natural policy for Australians to wish
to market as much as possible of their
wool clip in the form of goods from
their own factories.
Progress was slow at first but in
the last 20 years the industry has leapt
ahead. In the past year Australian
Mills used 675,177 bales in producing
scoured, fellmongered and carbonised
wools, tops, yarns, woollens, worsteds,
blankets, hosiery and ail classes of
knitted materials.
As the industry grows still further,
so will the need for banking service.
This Bank has played its part in the
growth of this industry. Its funds and
services have been used by many of
the enterprising men who built it up.
THE
COMMERCIM BANKING COMPANY
OF SYDNEY LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BAHK OF VICTORIA LID.
Board’ of Directors:
EDWARD R. KNOX, Chairman.
GEOFFREY F. HUGHES, Deputy Chairman. ORWELL PHILLIPS,
DOUGLAS R. LYSAGHT, Dr. EDWARD W. FAIRFAX,
ROBERT J. VICARS.
General Manager: A. S. OSBORNE
At a time when the R.A.F.
reserve figures make sad reading,
the Australian Government has
Missing Friend.
Will anyone knowing whereabouts of
WILLIAM HOWARD BROMLEY BOOTH,
last heard of in Victoria communicate
with undersigned. —-BLAKE & RIGG-ALL,
120 William Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES —In Divorce.
TO ROSALIND SWANSON late of Merry-
lands.—TAKE NOTICE that IRIS HILDA
McCREGOR has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3108 of 1948 against her
husband DAVID NELSON McGREGOR on
the grounds of his adultery with you be-
tween the First day of June 1946 and the
Fourteenth day of August 1948 at Merry-
lands and elsewhere in the State of New
South Wales You may apply to the Court
to be let in to defend the charge if you
so desire and you may obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from SLY &
RUSSELL, Solicitors, 16 Barrack Street,
Sydney.—(b.s.) J- DOUGHAN, Acting
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—In Divorce.
TO W r ALTER EDWARD SPICER formerly
of 138 Roberts Road Ohullora.—TAKE
NOTICE that OLIVE MARY SPICER
has filed a Petition for Dissolution of
Marriage No. 332 of 1948 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for 8 years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by 18th May 1949
and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from W. R. THOMSON & CO.,
Solicitors, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.—
(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in
Divorce.
ė
■Tty your aptlfudfe for Com*
mercial Art by submitting, for
free expert criticism, copies oC
test drawings from our presen.
tation booklet, /'Art Ability
Tests".
Commercial Art /11T appeal to you.
leading professionals will check over your
work, without cost to you. If you have a
Hair for drawing and sketching, there ara
quite possibly big opportunities for you
In tbe Commercial Art world. So write
tonight! The booklet you will receive I*
handsomely illustrated and the question*
naire intensely practical.
££Ht> this CewoN-tfOUS )
Burned
in a Second
. . . How import-
ant it is, therefore,
to burn coal
properly and eco-
nomically, how-
ever great or small
the daily con-
sumption. With
world - wide ex-
perience, and a
knowledge of
Australian coals
that extends’ back
over 60 years,
Babcock specialise
in the design and
manufacture of
the most efficient
steam - raising
plant for all pur-
poses.
FtMM
2S®
□ I Q
X
it - V*- - * v*X . '
sMIipPISi
; sm£. mmm-. m y*- '
longitudinal section
of a S. It W. High
Head boiler .unit'
arranged for pul-
verised coal firing
I . v
V. i ’i ' -
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States
commission one light aircraft-
carrier (not here yet), one cruiser,
five destroyers, one sloop, two
L.S.Ts., two minesweepers and
“about 30 auxiliaries” of various
kinds. In reserve it has two
cruisers, three destroyers, seven
frigates, one sloop, four L.S.Ts.
and 30 minesweepers and about
30 auxiliaries.
It is a deplorable position,
especially since the cruisers at
least are long past their statutory
ages.
The R.A.A.F., according to
Mr. Chifley, has six squadrons
in Australia capable of im-
mediate operation, apart from
one in Japan.
This means that these
squadrons—some are not fight-
ing or bombing squadrons—can
actually get into the air, though
not necessarily stay there. And
what they are capable of “operat-
ing against” heaven only knows.
If they tackled anything stronger
than Mr. Drakeford ,or Mr.
Dedman they would have a poor
time, despite a nucleus of
capable, enterprising manpower.
B.C.O.F.'s Lone
Romance.
“Ek Dum”: The Weaver case
has cropped up again.
The “victim” is a soldier who
appears at intervals, and is given
more publicity than the little
negro boy whose father wants
him with him in the United
States, and who has been one of
the most important figures in
Australian life— according to the
daily papers —for some days.
He wants to go back to his
little Japanese wife, and every
now and then he succeeds in
stowing away and getting there.
Then the harassed authorities
in Japan send him hastily back
to Australia, where he is met by
troops of reporters, and the daily
newspapers burst out once more
in a rash of double-column head-
ings to cover the story of the
brutality which prevents the
poor fellow from being with his
loved ones.
During the past week he has
circulated a petition, Which
has moved a “great Sydney daily”
to write a leading article in which
it meditates that “surely a free,
white and 21-year-old citizen of
this democracy should be
allowed to marry whom he
wishes —especially as he does not
propose to bring his wife to the
country.” It speaks of “petty
official tyranny,”
It is inexplicable that some
newspaper does not ask the
Commander-in-Chief in Japan
for facts and documents before
it airs Mr. Weaver’s versions. No
doubt any newspaper inquirer
would be supplied with the facts,
including a couple of sworn de-
clarations from the lady con-
cerned, daughter of a Japanese
sailor killed in Rabaul in Sep-
tember, 1943, who was all of
14i-years-old when her romance
with him is supposed to have
begun, and her mother.
"Fellow-travellers."
“Ek Dum”: The Sydney
“Tribune” publishes each week
a letter from Rupert Lockwood,
a young man who was regarded
by some sections of the Sydney
Sunday press during the war as
an authority of international
affairs, its final arbiter on the
war, the general trend of his
opinions being that the British
were a low lot who needed a few
Russian generals to teach them
how to fight and that the sur-
render of Singapore was an act
of British cowardice over which
a good democrat had every right
to gloat.
Mr. Lockwood is at present
representing the “Tribune” in
Britain. His column is headed
by a small map of England with
the United States flag in one
corner, above which are the
words “Notes From a 829
Base” —an apparent sneer in-
tended to imply that Britain is
now a U.S. military colony.
The subject of Mr. Lock-
wood’s theme is the general de-
generacy of the British ration,
the British character and British
independence. He evidently does
not feel the ration in particular
up to the standard of the fash-
ionable foreign restaurant at
which he and other bright lights
of the Central Communist party
administration used to dine
in Sydney a few months —a res-
taurant in which a square meal
could not be had under six. shil-
lings. He finds that in Lambeth
people last year found “cock-
roaches, live mice, cigarette
butts, broken glass, lead-pencil
and cardboard in their food.”
And he seems glad of it —it
shows the need, in his view, for
England to go Communist,
At the same time there is a
certain Miss Kath Bacon who
writes that in her experience the
colonial peoples are rising
against imperialism. It appears
that she has been to India and
the Vietnam part of Indo-China,
and a note by the editor says
that she is “Queensland State
secretary of the Eureka Youth
League and represented Aus-
tralia at last year’s Calcutta con-
ference of Colonial Youth.”
There have been, also, recent
outbursts from Gerald Peel, a
propagandist who drifted in
from India some years ago and
has devoted himself to propa-
gandising the idea that the
Indians should overthrow the
British and the Indonesians the
Dutch.
These struggling democrats
appear to have no difficulty
about foreign travel. Marx
House’s emissaries are nearly as
numerous as Dr. Evatt’s.
started a campaign in Britain to
attract ground staff here to fill
vacancies in the R.A.A.F., which
at present has scarcely any
modern aircraft to service. It is
a mean business, though a
spokesman for the R.A.A.F. an-
nounces that the campaign is
being “conducted with full Air
Ministry approval, although the
Royal Air Force was also short
of ground staff.”


PERMANENCE ... EXPERIENCE ... SECURITY
To protect the future of your faipily, look for
the fundamental qualifications of Permanence,
Experience and Security when selecting your
Executor apd Trustee. Because it has these
important qualifications, the Permanent Trustee
Company has many advantages over the private
individual in matters of Estate administration.
1. The Permanent Trustee Company has
permanent existence. Its officers are always
available for consultation. The Company’s
guaranteed permanence ensures faithful
administration until the completion of the
Trust.*
2. Since its incorporation 60 years agp, the
Company’s officers have accumulated a wealth
of experience in dealing with Estates of all
kinds. This accumulated experience is some*
thing no single individual can hope to possess.
3. The Company’s entire capital and
exceeding £1,000,000 —are available for the
protection of Estates entrusted to its care.
Write for free booklet
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LID.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
Dr. G. M. Barron
J, R. Faviell
Manager:
N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager;
C.N. P. Whittle
UNAFFECTED BY THE
PASSAGE OF TIME
PT.SA.IS
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
FEATHERLESS PHCENIX.
Especially since the late Paris
session of U.N.O. General
Assembly—Dr. Evatt in the
chair—the once bright-plumaged
Phoenix which arose from the
ashes of the old League of
Nations has suffered such a
plucking at the hands of close
observers of its pretensions and
performances that it now re-
sembles the aged parrot of Tom
Ugly’s Point, featherless, forlorn,
but voluble to the last.
Not only the U.N.O. Phoenix,
but some of those who might
be called the feathered choir
have been suffering a little
plucking, too, among them Dr.
Evatt, who, like U.N.O. itself,
formerly enjoyed in America a
“press” barely short of the ido-
latrous, not to say the fulsome.
Just as well, perhaps, that Dr.
Evatt, in particular, and other
members of the Phoenix choir
also were not present when one
Che s 1 y Manly, Chicago
“Tribune’s” U.N.O. corres-
pondent, recently arose and ad-
dressed a Council on Foreign
Affairs in his home city on the
subject “Pandemonium in the
World’s Town Hall” —or what
Mr. Churchill the other day
called “the brawling cockpit.”
“Now,” said Mr. Manly,
standing, as it were, knee-deep in
the Phoenix feathers he’d already
plucked, “I’d like to say a few
London “Daily Mail."
SERPENT SEASON.
words about someof the leading
personalities of the U.N. He
began with those at present in
the top positions.
“The two outstanding objects
of derision at the Baris session,
he declared, were Herbert Evatt,
Australia s Minister of External
Affaiis and President of the
General Assembly, and Trygve
Lie, of the
U.N.”
'From his own observation of
them in Paris, the “Tribune”
man described the no-doubt
familiar circumstances in which
those illustrious personalities
qualified for that remarkable dis-
tinction ; “Evatt and Lie put the
United States, Britain and
France on the defensive and con-
tributed mightily to the Soviet
propaganda by demanding im-
mediate four-Power discussions
on the Berlin crisis. There was
no suggestion [by them] that the
Russians ought to lift the block-
ade first, so the discussions could
proceed in an atmosphere free of
duress.”
The “Tribune” man went on
to declare that, in consequence,
“British spokesmen dubbed
Evatt the Tito of the Common-
wealth.” IJe added:
“When the Western nations re-
jected the Lie-Evatt proposal,
Evatt hit the ceiling. He
threatened to blast the three
Governments in the General
Assembly, but was restrained by
Lie. Mr. Lie has only two years
left of his $55,000-a-year tax-
free job and would like to be re-
elected.”
Leaving Australia’s Foreign
Policy, so to speak, thus sus-
pended Evattissimo, but favoring
the Secretary-General with a
further bouquet—“ Lie is a big,
hulking Norwegian with porcine
. .
jowls and an eager smile. He is
a former labor-union politician
and has the intellectual capacity
of a good union business-agent”
—the correspondent briefly gave
his impressions of other leading
lights of U.N.0., among them,
of bourse, always the greatest
tourist attraction, ’ Vyshinsky:
The white-haired ex-purge
prosecutor has a disarming
countenance that betrays nothing
of the cold-blooded ruthlessness
with which he sent hundreds of
men to their death on prefabri-
cated charges. In action,
Vyshinsky is something of a ham
actor, although he is gifted with
an extraordinary eloquence. He
rants and gesticulates with wild
extravagance and embellishes his
remarks with earthy Russian
proverbs and Latin legal
phrases.”
The “Tribune” man’s rather
deflationary references to his
own country’s delegates, parti-
cularly Mr. Dulles, could pos-
sibly be geographical, Dulles and
Co. hailing from elsewhere than
Chicago ; even so, they enhanced
the singular emphasis of his one
and only U.N.O. enthusiasm.
Surely perilously rocking the
“Tribune’s” tower, that en-
thusiasm was for Britain’s dele-
gates, bar one:
“With the exception of Ernest
Bevin, whose clumsy ineptitude
is unexampled in modern dip-
lomacy, British delegates excel
all others at U.N. greetings.
Hector McNeil, Minister of State,
Sir Hartley Shawcross, Attorney-
General, and Christopher May-
hew, Under - Secretary for
Foreign Affairs, all are suave,
urbane and facile speakers. The
ablest of all the British delegates,
however, is Sir Alexander
Cadogan,” of whom the speaker
recalled how “With tongue in
cheek, this lean, hard-bitten
Scotch professional polished f up
the Atlantic Charter in language
so lofty that Roosevelt could
applaud it and so vague that
even Churchill could stomach it.”
On the U.N.O. Phoenix (or
Evatt pigeon) itself, the
“Tribune’s” observer declared
that the Paris meetings “sounded
like a bedlam chorus of 58
voices, each singing off-key in a
different language.” He plucked
these further feathers;
“The Assembly has been re-
duced to an arena for propa-
ganda-warfare in which the
diplomats of the world meet and
exchange insults. It has been
said that the Paris session talked
more and accomplished less than
any international conference in
history.”
Socialised Britain.
Facing a question of wide in-
terest at the moment, “What
have been the economic conse-
quences to date of the British
nationalising schemes? ”, London
“Economist” editor Geoffrey
Crowther gives as his perhaps
surprising answer; “None at
all.”
On the one hand, he told an
audience of fellow-economists in
New York, “the belief that there
was some magic in the mere fact
of public ownership has faded,”
but, on the other hand, “cer-
tainly no disasters have followed
upon nationalisation.” Ten-
dencies have been revealed, he
said, which, on the whole, “tell
against nationalisation,” but
“none of them makes a great
deal of difference in the short
run”: —
“The evidence to date fully
confirms the judgment that the
mere fact of ownership of in-
dustry, whether it is public or
private, is of little or no import-
ance at all. What does matter
is how the owners of the in-
dustry, whoever they are, run it.
And on that vital point the only
evidence available to date is that
a public-owned industry [in
Britain] is ruft ist very much the
same way as a privately-owned
industry, certainly no better, but
there is no proof that it is run
♦very much worse.”
The insertion “in Britain” in
that statement has - this special
point, that, according to Mr.
Crowther, the top appointments
—indeed the appointments gen-
erally—to run the nationalised
industries there have not been
of a political kind. The best men
available have nearly always
been chosen:
“But though these men and
their colleagues are men of
“Marc' Aurelio,” Rome.
“IN CASE OF WAR, WHO DO I FOLLOW?—THAT
MOUSE!"
ability, who have been honestly
appointed, I do not think any-
body would claim that their
standard of competence is
noticeably above that of private
industry. Moreover, they suffer
from the disadvantage of having
to work as a board of committee.
It is true that private industry
is also managed by boards of
directors, but a private board
consists of men chosen because
they can work together, while a
publicly appointed board is con-
stituted on the opposite principle
of reflecting many different
points of view. It requires a
chairman of quite outstanding
personality to make such a
board work well.
“Another very interesting con-
clusion is beginning ,to emerge
from British experience. The
earlier nationalisation boards
consisted very largely of whole-
time members. Moreover, every
member was put in charge of one
department of the board’s func-
tions—such as production, sales,
personnel, research, etc.. In-
evitably these men tended to re-
gard themselves less as members
of a board with collective respon-
sibility than as heads of depart-
ments, meeting in conference but
with ties of loyalty to their de-
partmental subordinates.
“It has been rediscovered that
functional specialists have their
limitations and that there are
virtues in broad knowledge, in
ripened judgment and in non-
technical commonsense. In
short, it has been discovered that
private enterprise knew rather
more, and the theorists rather
less, about how to run industry
than had been supposed.”
Thus, Mr. Crowther infers,
one of the traditional arguments
in favor of nationalising in prin-
ciple has been disproved in the
British experiment—the theory
that, when an industry is no
longer managed by those who
chance to be its owners, but a
deliberate selection of the best
men available has been made,
the quality of the top manage-
ment will improve.
Another exploded fallacy has
been the argument that “the
morale of the workers was badly
affected by the knowledge that
they were working for employers
who were inspired by the wicked
profit-motive, and that once they
knew they were working for the
community there would be fewer
disputes, less absenteeism and a
general improvement in keen-
ness and productivity”:
“We must know—what ijiost
of us suspected—that this is
bunkum. Keen eyes have
thought they detected, in the first
few weeks of a new nationalisa-
tion, some evidence of greater
willingness to serve on the part
of the employees. But if so it
has not lasted beyond the cus-
tomary length of a honeymoon,
nor has it been large enough
to register in any of the statistics.
In the coalmines, for example,
absenteeism is as great and dis-
putes are as frequent as under
private enterprise, and if there
has been a slight improvement
in output per man-shift, that is
at least as likely to be due to the
progress that has been made in
mechanisation as to any better
morale".
“The trade-unions, in fact, are
disappointed with the fruits of
nationalisation. In all its
schemes, the Government has
very rightly set its face against
any direct representation of the
unions or of the workers upon
the controlling boards. Trade-
unionists have indeed been
appointed to them, but in their
personal capacities, and they
have been required to resign all
their posts in the union before
taking office.
“Nationalisation, to the ordi-
nary miners down the pit, has
always meant that the industry
would become their own in-
dustry. They say that it is not
nearly the same thing to discover
that it is now the nation’s in-
dustry ; indeed, they complain
that the old private owner, for
all his faults, was visibly there
to be complained to and to be
stormed at; he was not the help-
less agent of a remote and
soulless board in London.”
In general, however, Mr.
Crowther represents the nation-
alised industries as having “con-
tinued to be managed by the
same sort of people—-in the over-
whelming majority of cases, by
identically the same people—as
they were before, and in exactly
the same way.” And, finally.


“The ordinary resident in Eng-
land, unless he happened to have
been a shareholder in one of
the expropriated companies, is
unable to detect any difference
whatever as a result of nation-
alisation.”
Next War’s Length.
U.S. Army Chief -of - Staff
General Omar N. Bradley de-
bunks a notion of the atomisers
and push-button warriors:—•
“Since the development of new
air-weapons, enthusiasts have
oversimplified the task of fighting
a war. Convinced by their own
illusions that a war might be
won in days, at a safe and com-
fortable bomber range, they give
reckless courage to those fools
who would say, ‘lf war is to
come, then let it come now.’
“When we contemplate the
terrible prospect of another con-
flict in our time, we who survived
this last one in well-fed comfort,
warmth and wealth must face
the bitter prospect of deprivation,
fear and death. War is no longer
a foreign affair; its weapons
have invaded our homes. A
struggle between two great
Powers might readily last for
many years and leave each of
them stricken to death,”
Ten Years Of It Yet!
From the considerable sources
of information available to him,
supplemented by two tours of
Europe in the last couple of
years, N. Y. “Times” Sunday
editor Lester Market sees no
hope of the “cold war” col-
lapsing yet awhile.
In an address in New York, he
asserted that “the Western world
had suffered a serious defeat in
China,” and he went on to pre-
dict continuation of the general
state of unease, nerve-wars,
armaments and challenges.
“The optimist,” he said, “can
hope that this kind of situation
will endure for, say, 10 years
during . which the two rival
systems will be tried out without
recourse to arms. By the end of
that decade it. may be demon-
strated either, as the Communists
fervently predict, that capitalism,
like a rotted fruit, will fall from
the tree and then the Red crop
will really flourish; or —and I
am .firmly convinced this will
happen—that Communism will
have proved itself, finally and
conclusively, contrary to the
N. Y. “Herald Tribune."
“AS FAR AS THEY CAN SAFELY GO."
normal instincts and the normal
impulses of man.”
He subscribed to the comfort-
ing view that Russia is not ready
for war, either militarily or
psychologically (a view which
some authorities very much
doubt, except on the single score
of the atom-bomb); that “it has
troubles both internally and in
its satellite sphere, and of more
importance, that the men in the
Kremlin must know that a' war
against Communist Russia would
produce, in the United States, a
unity of effort unparalleled in
bur history —a war Russia could
not possibly win.”
As always-present dangers,
however, he noted that the
Russian theory that Russia
would be safe only if the whole
world was Communist might
feed flames that could not be
quenched; also that serious
trouble threatening the Russian
regime might develop inside
Russia, and the Kremlin group
might then declare war as a
diversionary measure to unite the
the nation. Thirdly, there might
be an “incident” in some ex-
plosive area such as Berlin or
Trieste with one side unable to
make concessions without losing
face.
A Churchill Broadcast.
With optimistically the
Canberra oratorical galaxy and
Australia’s own recruiting needs
in mind, an example of the kind
of appeal to which young men
of spirit never fail to respond:
a bxoadcast by Mr. Churchill in
support of Britain’s current
national recruiting campaign:
“The Regular Army has not
only to provide the spearhead of
our defence against sudden
attack but now it must be the
training machine for large
numbers of young men who are
called up or who may be called
up under the National Service
Act. This means that our
Regular Army must have a very
strong professional structure of
teachers and leaders in order at
once to preserve its glorious
tradition and keep abreast of the
times.
“It also means that the Regular
Army can provide for the
serious - minded experienced
soldier a professional career
which should constitute his life's
work and be a guarantee of his
later years. When I think of all
the youngish men, men in their
early prime, that are going around
today, men who have dared,
endured, and learned so much in
the field of battle, I cannot doubt
that there are many long-service
men who will be forthcoming to
join, to make their way and rise
in a profession honorable to its
members and vital to the State.
“The Territorial Army, which
succeeded the Old Volunteers of
the nineteenth century, is equally
indispensable to any plan made by
any Government in these present
dangerous times. There can be
no effective Territorial Army
without a strong volunteer ele-
ment made Up of the best kind
of men and women we have got
—and we have got some good
ones still. I earnestly appeal to
the young veterans of the late
war to come forward and join
their Territorial units. People
say the times are hard. There
are many things we do not like.
The Government have com-
pulsory powers. If they want
us why do they not issue their
orders? But that is not the way
ir« which the victorious British
soldiers of the last war should
approach their decision. The
volunteer element in our national
life, the willingness, nay the
urge, to do more than is required
by law, or required just to keep
your head above water is a char-
acteristic of the British spirit
without which we should never
have survived.
“Some have told you of the
advantages of joining the Terri-
N. Y. “ World-Telegram."
WHEN THE BOUGH BREAKS ....
torials, good comrades, pleasant
holiday camps. That is all true,
but in my opinion our recruit-
ing campaign for the Territorial
Army will only be a success if it
makes its appeal to men who
wish to fortify their lives by a
special sacrifice for our country,
which we love so dearly, and
which so many of those to whom
I now appeal saved from shame
and ruin. *
“A suitable man with a right
gift and turn of mind who joined
his Territorial battalion or
battery now would add to his
own stature among his fellow-
men. It is true that he volunteers
to face heavier risks than he
otherwise would, but so do the
fire-brigade and the lifeboat men,
and so do lots of people when
honor’s call rings clear.
“The fact of making an extra
sacrifice of leisure and life s
strength and of undertaking a
special obligation to bear a bit
of the extra weight gives a man
a rightful status of dignity and
self-respect. It is a matter which
each must settle with his con-
science. The more awkward or
dreary many things may be in
cur life the brighter shine these
acts of the spirit. Here is the
flame which enabled us, as I
firmly believe, to save the
freedom of the world and the life
of our island in the war. It must
not die now or we shall all die
with it. A man may well be
proud in himself, though he
must tell it to none, if regardless
whether things fall well or ill, or
whether he likes them or not, he
comes forward to do his bit and
a bit more, too.”
Politician De Gaulle.
Pen-picture of General de
Gaulle by a Paris correspondent
of N. Y. “World-Telegram”:
“Charles de Gaulle is a para-
dox in personality. It seems im-
possible that any man who lives
in the public eye could be so
colorless. It seems impossible
that any man so colorless could
remain long in the public eye.
“He is tall, often described as
handsome, dignified. But he is
utterly cold in appearance and
manner. Ramrod straight, re-
served, introspective, stubborn,
proud, sensitive—his face is all
but expressionless, his manner
undramatic.
“Since he started campaign-
ing recently he has tried to over-
come some of these charac-
teristics, to get closer to his
public. Newspapermen who
have been travelling about
France with him say that he has
not been quite so stiff and con-
strained.
“His slight new-found amia-
bility doesn’t mean that he has
looked up ‘compromise’ in a die-
tionary. If he heads the Govern-
ment he will put France belli-
gerently into the Western camp
in resisting Soviet aggression. But
Western statesmen, if wise, won’t
get any idea that his anti-Com-
munism will make him an
Anglo-American stooge. They're
going to get plenty of headaches
when General de Gaulle believes,
right or not, that France’s in-
terests differ from those of her
allies.”
Bacchus Dethroned.
That grand old worshipper at
the vintage shrine the late Pro-
fessor Saintsbury would read
with sad dismay a recent Lon-
don “Times” report «n the stag-
gering—no, perhaps that isn’t
the right word —the astounding
decline of wine-drinking in
Britain. And Australian wine
exporters might well feel some
dismay, too.
Those turning to other stuff—
the “Times,” doubtless horrified,
declares they’re drinking gin—in-
clude even the “certain classes
of English people who have been
accustomed in the past to take
wine with their meals.”
Cost mostly Government-
imposed—seems the direct cause.
The “Times,” in nostalgic sor-
row, recalls that when Gladstone
reduced the duty on French light
wines to a shilling a gallon con-
sumption increased sixfold. But
“The duty, which before the last
war was four shillings, has since
been raised some half-a-dozen
times and is now twenty-five
shillings, thus making a regular
glass of Graves or claret a pro-
hibited luxury.”
Consider, as the “Times” does,
a single bottle of claret—or at
any rate the cost of it: Before
the war the duty on a bottle of
claret was Bd.; a reasonably
good bottle of claret cost 2s. 6d.
at the retail wine-shop or from
4s. 6d. to ss. at a restaurant.
Better qualities of claret cost up
to 10s. at the retail shop and up
to 20s. at a restaurant. Today
the duty on a bottle of claret is
4s. 2d.—or more than six times
what it was before the war. A
reasonably good bottle of claret
at the retail shop that cost 2s.
6d. before the war now costs Bs.,
and at a restaurant it costs 18s.
The better qualities that cost up
to 10s. now cost up to 225., and
at a restaurant they cost up
to £3.
Figures surely sufficient to ex-
plain why “claret and similar
wines have disappeared from
English dining, tables.” Not only
are the “landed gentry” unable
to replenish their cellars; British
wine importers are also affected
by “the lack of such custom as
once came from middle-class
consumers,” while “similarly in
clubs, as well as in hotels and
restaurants, there has been a
decline in the drinking of wine
with meals.”
The “Times” report goes so
far as to assess it as “a change
in social habits.”
Dragnet Digest.
Ananias a Novice. —Deathbed mes-
sage to his secretary by late Czecho-
slovakian President Benes; “All Com-
munists are liars, particularly the
Russians.”
* * * ♦
Enter Comrades, Superbly Armed. —
News broadcast from China, heard
with mixed feelings in America;
“The Chinese Communists staged a
long parade today through the ancient
streets of Peiping, with jeeps, trucks,
and weapon-carriers of all sizes, and
all American-made.”
* * * *
A Marxist Libel. —Nailed by that
staunch upholder of free-enterprise
democracy Bernard M. Baruch: “For
100 years students of Marxism have
parroted the libel that the capitalistic
system is driven to war by its very
nature, in its hunger for markets
and profits. The .truth is that modern
warfare has developed so that no
economic system is more conducive
to peace than one based on private
initiative where a multitude of in-
dividuals pursue their happiness and
profit, independent of a State.”
* * * *
Primate of Poland. —He was en-
throned last month, and London
“Times” recorded that in a message
to “the clergy and Roman Catholic
Jaity” he said: “I am neither a
politician nor a diplomat.” His
name, Archbishop Vyshinsky!
* * * *
J. Bull, Co-operator. —Thomas K.
Finletter, chief of the Marshall Plan
mission to London, defending J.B.
in a matter on which U.S. suspicion
has been rather hearty: “There is
no justification for any feeling that
Britain is not willing to do her full
part in economic co-operation in
Europe. Nor is there justification for
any feeling that the organisation for
European economic recovery should
have moved more rapidly than it has
in this first year. In a short period
of time great progress has been made.
To be sure, considerably more re-
mains to be done during the second
year. I believe the British will do
their full part in seeing that it is
done.”
* * * *
Watch Your Necks, Generals!— ~
N. Y. “Daily News,” looking over
all the war-crimes trials, concluded
that their lesson was that those guid-
ing its country’s military policy “had
better build the best war-machine
they possibly can,” because the stakes
in the next war would include their
own lives: “Perhaps,” it commented,
' “this has already occurred to these
gentlemen. Anyway, they are press-
ing us without let-up to spend billions
for defence in amounts previously
unheard-of in time of peace. Maybe,
in addition to doing their patriotic
duty as they see it, they are trying
to take out the best possible life-
insurance for themselves.”
* * * *
Lenin’s Prescription. Canberra -
cum-wharfie policy towards the Com-
munist thuggery north of Australia
falls in with the Lenin prescription
for the use of native disaffection.
Summarised in N. Y. “Times Supple-
ment” by Nathaniel Peffer, Lenin’s
formulary runs: “The basis of
capitalism is imperialism. Strike suc-
cessfully at imperialism, and capital-
ism is undermined. The place to
strike at imperialism is in the colonies
where there is native discontent.
Foment and encourage native up-
risings and the empires can be under-
mined first at the outer edges and
then nearer the centre. Break up
the empires and capitalism falls of
its own weight.”
* * * *
The Old School Tie. —So far Attlee
and Co. haven’t nationalised it, and
“Wall-street Journal’s” London cor-
respondent reports it is, if anything,
more popular than ever, “despite
heavy taxation and expensive fees
which hit hard at upper- and middle-
income groups”: “All leading public
schools have long waiting-lists, with
some boys enrolled 14 years in ad-
vance. This means that many pros-
pects were registered at birth because
a boy cannot attend a public school
until he is 13 or 14 years old. Many
parents register their sons at several
schools in order to assure admittance
to at least one, and every public
school today is packed to capacity.”
* * * *
Glorified Bus. —London’s latest ex-
perimental two-decker, as described
with warranted enthusiasm by the
“Wall-street Journal’s” correspondent;
“It is equipped with pneumatically-
operated doors, air-liner seats, auto-
matic air-change, fluorescent lighting
and a chromium mouth-organ grill.
As a result of test rides, seats are
tilted six degrees more than usual.
Each has an individual cushion with
‘cocktail-bar’ footrests for additional
leg-room and space for a small
suitcase.”
* * *
Alias Babbler. Chicago “Trib-
une’s” U.N.O. correspondent, on the
Paris farce: “The three-month ses-
sion produced 5000 speeches, totalling
17.000,000 words, and 100,000,000
copies of printed matter. Ales Bebler,
alias Babbler, a lieutenant of Dictator
Tito, required two whole sessions ol
the political committee to deliver an
83-page speech on the Greek ques-
tion. When he returned two days
later with a 68-page speech on the
same subject, chairman Paul Henri
Spaak, of Belgium, congratulated him
for showing such remarkable re-
straint.”


The Return of EDGAR
BY JOHN
STEPHENS
WHEN Edgar walked through the
school gate I knew him immedi-
ately—the long legs moving deli-
berately, the right arm swinging
just a little higher than the left, the head
tilted slightly to one side. But there was
a difference; I saw that from the staff-
room window as he came up the drive
towards the headmaster’s entrance. His
gait seemed longer, more casual. It was
not the regimental thirty-inch clip-step of
the parade-ground. The strenuous Edgar I
knew at Deir Suneid was appearing in
slow-motion. He still marched, as if
followed by a company of soldiers, but
now the invisible platoons had tired feet.
A FEW moments later the headmaster
brought him to the staff-room door
and introduced him to Dad Senner. “Mr.
Senner—Mr. Roadstead. Mr. Senner is
our senior master.” And Senner, with
his angry, disappointed eyes, who has
stuck around here for 15 years and has
been Dad for ten of them, gaVe Edgar
his hand and half a smile.
Then he introduced the newcomer to
the rest of the male staff, as nearly as
possible in order of seniority. That meant
that Edgar had given his quiet “How
d' you do?” to most of those present
before he came to me. His serious face
lighted as I came out from my comer:
“Hullo, Edgar, good to see you again!”
“Well! Blow me down! Mac, you
old bludger! When did they let you
out?”
We gripped hands for a longish spell,
grinning and well-welling in the dam-
nable embarrassment of such reunions.
As a rule, after a few minutes’ animated
checking-up on old acquaintance, the
“Do you remember?” phase falls off
into silence, which endures uneasily until
the brisker-witted man thinks of the cue-
word for parting with mutual good
wishes and mutual relief.
Only for a sincere man like Edgar is
it possible to rekindle for any length of
time the easy comradeship of the war
years.
So, for ten minutes of old-soldier
nostalgia, we went back together, round
and about the half-forgotten days:
“Orangeez! ” of Palestine and the Famous
Sausages of Spinney; Jericho and the
brigade marching past Abdullah, of Trans-
jordania; Ceylon and the smoke-blue
dagobas around Lake Koggala; steak
and eggs fried in coconut oil and the
grey roads stained with blood-red betel
spittle . . ,
The warning-bell rafig us back to the
present and we followed our comrades
out to the headmaster’s assembly, Edgar
grunting “Afraid I’ve been putting on
the old-soldier act. Bad show! Mustn’t
do it again!”
That, I think, was the last time I
heard him mention the war, or even
use a bit of war-time jargon.
'T' HENCEFORTH, he seemed to take
I exaggerated care not to be caught
posing as the “war-worn veteran,” not
to talk or act like one who had lived
five years of his life on parade-grounds
and bivouacs from the Middle East to
New Guinea. He succeeded pretty well.
As the term slipped by, he appeared to
loosen up visibly and audibly, his long-
legged walk became almost an amble, his
voice became gentle and without edge.
Bill Grigg, our science man, was in-
credulous when I told him that Edgar
had been our battalion R.S.M. “One of
the dinkum blood-and-thunder sar’-
majors, too! He picked up the finer
points of the game at a Tommy n.c.os.’
school in Palestine. And what a voice!”
I gave a subdued demonstration, a stock
demonstration in our mob, of the way
Edgar’s long body used to quiver, from
gaiters to chin-strap, as he made of his
mouth a great trumpet and boomed
across the eighteen rigid platoons—
“ Second Oomph Battaliohh! Atten . . .
Shoh! Sillawpp .. . Umss!”
I told, too, of the time when, a raw
Queen Mary soldier, on duty before Bat-
talion H.Q. at Hill 95 camp, I had dealt
a passing brigadier a lowly butt salute
instead of the elaborate present arms that
was his due. The brigadier hadn’t noticed,
but from the orderly-room window
W.0.l Roadstead had, which was much
worse. As I recapitulated, mildly, Edgar’s
comments on that occasion, Bill Grigg
shook his head and declared:
“Well, it’s certainly hard to believe!
Take a look at that now, for instance.”
ALONG the corridor the door of Room
Nine had opened to emit a class of
boys pell-mell and eager for recess, Edgar,
approaching just then, caught the pack-
leader’s skull in his diaphragm and
scattered the books he had been carry-
ing along the floor. “Steady, lads,
steady!” he was saying as the young
gangsters skeltered on, unheeding, leav-
ing a couple of their more civilised mates
to help Edgar pick things up.
“See what I mean?” said Grigg. “And
he doesn’t seem to care a damn!”
It was puzzling to me, too. Here was
a man who had exercised a serene disci-
pline over the roughest and most tur-
bulent of soldiers letting a pack of
youngsters wipe their boots on him. It
wasn’t as if his discipline had been merely
a parade-ground discipline—a matter of
putting on a competent act. It y/as based
more solidly than that.
The Japs, once, were moving in to-
wards a company position near Salamaua,
chanting away back through the scrub,
“We’re coming, Aussies, we’re coming!”
A weird sound and hard to take. A
nervous reo had answered the high-
pitched taunting just as the Japs had
hoped, with a futile and dangerously re-
vealing burst from his tommy-gun. I
heard Edgar swear under his breath;
then he moved quietly across to the
tommy-gunner.
“Steady now, Blue. Wait till you really
sec the little apes.”
He was like that in the sticky spots,
knowing the right thing to do and doing
it, calmly.
I WAS tempted, once or twice, to tell
1 a few of the rowdier lads something
of Mr. Roadstead’s war record. But it
wouldn’t have done. Edgar himself
would have been annoyed and the kids,
apart from a few romantic ones, not par-
ticularly impressed. They were very
young, and the war was over long ago
for them. Even the job which had won
Edgar his D.C.M. would seem tame com-
pared with the exploits of Captain X,
hero of the current serial at the local
picture-theatre. It’s just as well, I sup-
pose. Edgar’s active-service badge gave
him rather less prestige than the green-
jersey worn by young Danner-
by, who played centre-forward for the
local football team.
Edgar managed quite well with the
senior students. Most of the unruly
citizens drop out of a school before they
reach the Leaving and Matriculation
forms and the age of discrimination,
enough discrimination, at least, to respect
a mild and sincere teacher of Edgar’s
type.
His trouble lay in the middle school,
among husky young tartars on the verge
of adolescence. These young Dannerby
bullied in a hearty, good-natured manner,
clouting them occasionally, and they
adored him. In their eyes Edgar seemed
comic, a little queer, and, beside Danner-
by, almost doddering. This section had
in it a suave unlikeable youngster named
Challoner, but otherwise they were
boisterous without malice. With Edgar,
wildly boisterous. But, as Grigg re-
marked, he didn’t seem to care a damn.
“You see,” Edgar said to me one day as
we stood together in the sunny corner
of the quadrangle during an off
period, “in the Army a man had a gut-
ful of putting on an act. For four and
a half years I had theqob of being god-
almighty with a big voice to the hundreds
of chaps who passed through the bat-
talion. And I’m not really built that
way, you know. As for standing over
kids —they’re such eager, likeable little
cusses —it seems petty to me, somehow.”
And he went on to quote the old saw
about a teacher being a man among kids
and a kid among men.
“There, listen to that, and let it be
a warning to you!” he cried suddenly.
For a moment we listened to it, issuing
from the classrooms surrounding the
asphalted quadrangle—the ageless drone
of children in school, the ranting obbli-
gato of teachers—the high voice of Miss
Dingle going on and on, the stentorian
jollying of young Dannerby, and “ ‘The
fault, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, but
in ourselves, that we are underlings!’
Who said that, Bannerman?” That was
Old Dad Senner.
“The eternal tantrums of tired
teachers! ” said Edgar. “It gets you down
a bit, doesn’t it?”
“It does,” I agreed. “Nice bit of
alliteration, that.”
HT HE teacher-child relationship, I
t think the educational theorists call it.
Edgar seemed to have difficulty in decid-
ing just what form this relationship should
take in his case. With most of us, it’s a
simple question of finding the best way
to hold the wriggling victim still while we
apply our particular brand of education.
Quite early in his career, the average
teacher evolves, unconsciously as a rule,
his own pedagogic act —the heavy uncle
act, the whimsical tyrant, the manly type,
the pulpiteer, the jolly good fellow, the
A. S. Neill super-democrat or the plain
common nark. You just take your choice,
according to your metabolism, your philo-
sophy or the state of your liver.
Edgar’s drawbacks were his excessive
sincerity and, ironically, his quiet affec-
tion for youngsters as such. It was as if
he would say to them: “Well, hefe I am.
If you want my help, I’ll try to help you
as best I can. If you don’t, well, that’s
all right.”
Such an attitude may triumph in the
long, long run, given a strong and patient
will; if it doesn’t, the long run slackens
to a jog-shuffle routine of kindly muddle.
However, Edgar had a saving fear of
emulating Mr. Chips, and his salvation
was completed, in a way, by the incident
of young Challoner and the greasy foot-
ball. These factors entered his story dur-
ing the final period of a Wednesday
afternoon. This was set aside on the time-
table for Physical Training, Form Four.
Edgar and I took IVa and IVb respec-
tively, on adjacent areas of the green
paddock behind the school.
I would bore my squad with a table of
academic and probably futile exercises,
vaguely remembered from the days when
they called this business “Drill.” Edgar,
however, put his pupils through some
surrealist evolutions recommended to the
rash in the latest handbooks of Physical
Education. There was a good deal of
hilarity and gasping about it.
This afternoon the two squads finished
up by combining to play a game which
Edgar called Dodge Ball, and which
looked like an amalgamation of Rugby
and basketball and good old-fashioned
mayhem.
AT either end of the ground a stake
was set up as a goal-post. The two
teams of 40 or so boys scattering haphaz-
ardly over the ground, a football was
tossed up for the pack in the middle, to
be grabbed and passed from one boy to
another, up and along the field, A goal
was scored if the ball hit the post at either
end. There seemed to be few set rules,
though occasionally, if a boy ran too far
with the ball, or if the play became too
rugged, Edgar would blow his whistle and
award a free throw to someone.
Sooner or later, the smaller and weaker
boys, tired of being flattened and
trampled upon, would retire from active
service, and leave the game to be mono-
polised by the bigger fellows, working in
small, arrogant packs. Ringleader of one
of these was young Challoner, an over-
grown, muscular youth, a kind of un-
generous Stalky. Possibly he had read
Kipling’s book —more probably he
modelled his behavior on that of some
obnoxious juvenile in an American film.
“A supercilious young pest!” Miss
Dingle had declared, no one contradicting,
not even Edgar. For even he found Chal-
loner irritating. Today he chose to be
repeatedly deaf to Edgar’s whistle.
About ten minutes to four a cold
drizzle began, and what with wet grass
and cow-dung and the perversity of Chal-
loner, Edgar had doubtless had enough of
the game. At this point, Freddie Doogan,
good-natured and tangle-footed, succeeded
for the first time in winning the ball. He
hugged it to his guernsey, and was plug-
ging happily along with it when Challoner
knocked him sprawling with a savage
shove in the back. Edgar took one look
at Freddie grunting and sobbing on the
grass and blew his whistle. Challoner,
ball in hand, kept on running. Edgar
whistled again.
This time young Challoner stopped and
turned a well-practised poker-face to-
wards the umpire. Edgar, supporting
the badly-winded Freddie with one arm,
spoke quietly:
“Right-ho, Challoner, ball up!”
CHALLONER, swinging quickly,
hurled the ball with all the force of
his powerful young body, so that it struck
Edgar heavily in the chest. The shock of
the sodden missile made him lurch for
a second on his long legs. Then, recover-
ing, he took out his handkerchief, wiped
the slimy green from his pullover, and
led young Freddie across to me. He
turned to the waiting boys: “Break off
now, lads. Challoner, stay where you are,
please.”
The drizzle had stopped now and the
low sun lent fire to the underleaves of the
elm-trees, flooding the grass beneath them
with a vivid wash of sunlight. The boys
moved quietly to the edge of the field and
turned to watch the two main actors in
the little show.
Young Challoner stood there, sheepish
yet a little defiant, his fair hair lifted by
the cold wind into a luminous crest.
I suddenly thought of another
youngster, much like Challoner and not
much older, standing in a similar attitude
in front of Edgar before being marched in
to front the C.O, at Hill 95. Fourteen
days the Old Man had given him, as
reward for an extended a.w.l. session in
Tel Aviv. But wild-eyed Johnny Galway
had died on Lababia Ridge, and here we
were in the quiet schoolground with the
elm-leaves aflame in the winter sun and
Edgar and young Challoner standing face
to face, thirty yards apart.
POR a moment Edgar stood there,
* looking old and slumped. Then,
magically, the peace-time kinks straight-
ened out, and his long body seemed to
take on at least three inches of extra
height; his head went back and he made
of his mouth a great baritone trumpet:
“Challoner! Atten —shoh! ”
The startled boy brought his feet more
or less together.
“Very poor! As you were! Watch
me.”
A little aghast, Challoner listened to
the voice of Warrant-Officer Roadstead
as he delivered a detailed analysis and
demonstration of the position of attention,
starting at the feet and ascending via
knees, hips, buttocks, fingers, thumbs,
shoulders, chin and eyes, to the top of the
cranium.
Edgar spent a good five minutes read-
justing young Challoner’s anatomy, until
the boy stood satisfactorily erect, though
a trifle dazed. He next proceeded to
demonstrate to his youthful victim that,
up till the present moment, he [Challoner]
had not known the first thing about how
he should turn his body to right or to
left. “Left turn! Left turn! No,
no! Left heel, right toe! Arms to your
sides! Head erect! Left turn! Left ”
Relentlessly he wound poor Challoner
up, anti-clockwise, twenty turns to the
left. Then he unwound him, clockwise,
twenty turns to the right.
“Right! Stand at ease! Staaandeasy!
Now we’ll try a little marching. Here's
how it’s done” .. .
Edgar executed twenty paces in
Grenadier style and came to a flawless
halt. The ninety-nine finer points of
marching were enumerated in detail.
Then Edgar marched the boy up and
down the paddock till the final bell. In
all, the gruelling had taken up no more
than fifteen minutes, but I knew from
my own experience just how exacting
fifteen minutes of Edgar’s breaking-in
technique could be.
X think X was as relieved as young
Challoner when Edgar at last called a
halt.
I MOVED across to Edgar and offered
1 him the makings.
“You big bully!” X said.
He grinned: “Yes, I guess you’re right.
Just plain bullying and nothing more.”
His voice became serious. “A disgusting
act, really.”
“Ah, well,” I went on. “Men amongst
kids, you know”.. .
I looked across beyond the old mullock-
heaps where the metal sign of the
Diggers’ Arms swung and glittered m
the"last of the sunlight. “How about it.
Shall we?” .
“Mac, old boy, I think we shall.
ChaEoner! ”
“Sir?” , .
“Go to the staff-room and get my bat
—er —please.”
<6 Ycs sir.”
Edgar looked quite happy as we drank
together.


Old gdentity
by GLORIA
RAWLINSON
““T'HIS is an old landmark,” said the
driver of the sightseeing coach.
“The stone building was once a
redoubt. The old homestead be-
longs to Miss Bracewell, a descendant,
but I believe the old lady is still alive.”
“Ah! What a lovely place!” “Look
at that great pear-tree and those roses!”
“It’s quite modern in front.”
The driver did not think it particularly
remarkable, but it was listed as a point
of interest in his guide-book. The
orchard lay beyond the lichen-covered
stone-wall, and perhaps the plums were
a little riper than yesterday; the pear-
tree certainly looked dustier, but no taller.
The whole place was exactly the same
as it had been for as,, long as he cbuld
remember.
But something had gone from the
Bracewell homestead.
OLD Jenny sat in a shed at the back
of the house, a basket of windfalls
at her feet. The shed had a curious odor
of sun-dried herbs, last year’s apples and
slowly decaying boards. A lone blue-
bottle buzzed angrily against the closed
window, and a small black-and-white kid
poked an inquisitive head inside the door,
wrinkled its nose and gave a pessimistic
bleat. From the front balcony came the
sound of teacups and happy laughter.
It was her eldest son Ben who found
her sitting there.
He came limping up from the orchard,
mumbling into his beard and looking as
ancient as his mother. He put down his
own basket of windfalls and made a slap
at the bluebottle, missed it, and threw a
plum at the kid.
Ben was the only one of old Jenny’s
five sons and three daughters who had
not married. Loma, the youngest grand-
child, had lived with Uncle Ben and his
mother all of her life. She was nearly
forty now, still very handsome in a hard
polished way, arrogant and impatient.
The two old people lived in the past,
thought in the past and seldom talked
of anything but the past. Their sole occu-
pation in life seemed to be that of “mind-
ing the time,” and they woke up and
“minded the time” when the sun was
warmer or the fruit had a more pleasant
flavor or the time the old cat died, and
went to sleep “minding the time” when
they got up at dawn and had the milking
finished by sunrise.
“I am tired of hearing this old colonist
talk,” she had said to them in the morn-
ing, after warning Uncle Ben to keep
away from the front of the house while
she entertained her visitors. “I am tired
of seeing you in those dirty old sand-
shoes, Uncle Ben. You look like a
pauper!”
“I mind the time when you were glad
enough to go out with me, sandshoes or
no sandshoes, and buy brandy balls up
at old Miss Patsy’s shoppie, as she called
it, the one that was pulled down to make
that stinking garage.”
“Yesterday you went up the road bare-
footed.” .
“Aye, that’s very likely. I was in a
hurry to get to the dairy. And anyway,”
he began to whine, “it’s me corns. Mam
knows how bad they are, don’t you,
Mam?”
“Eh? What’s that?” Jenny croaked
from the depths of her red plush moth-
eaten armchair. “Who’s that? Is that
you, Esther? Ha, my dear, I mind the
time when you broke your angel mug and
hid it in the pigsty.”
“He! He! He! Loma, she thinks you
are your Aunt Esther. Mam, it’s only
me and Loma talking.”
“Oh, how silly of me, dear. I thought
you were Esther. Where is our Esther,
Ben?”
“Esther’s dead!” shouted her son.
“Don’t you mind the time when she died
—water on the lungs?”
LOMA tapped her teeth with a spoon.
She had been abroad for a few years
and had never really settled down again.
She could not get used to their remote
ways and petty reminiscences. She bent
over the old lady.
“It’s about Uncle Ben’s shoes, Granny.
He even wears them to town! Can’t you
stop him?”
“She told me to. It’s me corns,”
grumbled Uncle Ben.
“So glad you’re back, dearie,”
whispered Jenny (Loma had been home
for over a year). “Don’t let them cut the
pear-tree down, will you? I mind the
time when the children had a swing under
it and the Captain trod on a chicken.”
“Granny, please make Uncle Ben keep
away from ffie front of the house. He
looks like a tramp.”
“It’s me corns,” persisted the old man,
and Jenny smiled, vaguely apologetic.
“The plums are ripe, Ben, we ought to
gather them today.”
“There are pickers coming tomorrow,”
Loma shouted in her ear. “You are not
to go outside today. You are to stay
here in the kitchen. It is too far to the
orchard. Do you hear me, Uncle Ben?
I won’t have it. You are to keep her in-
side.”
He pointed an accusing finger at her.
“I know you, Loma Bracewell. You’re
ashamed of her, that’s what. We ail
know you. Ever since you come into that
bit of brass you’ve been ashamed of
Mam and me. You’ve turned on us and
bit the hands that fed you.”
“Don’t be absurd and childish, Uncle
Ben. This is my own place. If you’d
only ‘mind the time’ when I bought it
because the mortgage was due, and you
and Granny might have been turned out!
And let me tell you this, when she goes—
out you go! ”
The little figure in the plush chair
moved uneasily and murmured, “So glad
you’re back, dearie, so glad.” /
Uncle Ben cogitated for a few moments,
slightly squelched, but not defeated, and
then began from another angle.
■ “It’s Ada’s day off. What do you want
to give a party for, on Ada’s day off?
Fishy, that’s what it is.”
“It is not a party. I am just having
a few friends, and remember that you are
to keep out of sight.”
“I’ll be visiting the dairy about three
o’clock,”
“Yes, and walk up the road in those
awful shoes. No wonder I am ashamed
of you! Look at the way you have
slopped your tea about. I suppose you’ll
blame that on your corns and ‘mind the
time’ when you spilt a bucket of milk or
something.”
“All right! All right! No need to
nag,” mumbled the old man. ‘T don’t
want to see your fine friends. I got heaps
of friends of me own
up at the dairy, and
it’s the old colonists’
reunion next montl\.
I know a lot of
people there, I do.”
Uncle Ben plucked
at his mother’s
sleeve. “Mam!
Mam! Wake up!”
He had decided,
while making his
slow way from
orchard to shed, to
create some sort of
disturbance, some-
thing that would up-
set Loma’s party.
“I’ll spite her! 11l
learn her! I’ll take Mam up* to see her
visitors. Mam!”
But as she did not answer he peered
into her face and then felt her hands, and
knew that she was dead. He looked down
at his old white canvas shoes, and kicked
them off his feet. He would have to keep
in with Loma. now. What had she
said . . . and when she dies —out you go!
Yes, he’d better change his shoes and
get spruced up a bit.
He should never have let Mam carry
that basket of plums, but she liked to
hold it, “minding the time” when they
were all small boys with a basket apiece,
full of ripe yellow gages. Loma knew
best, though. She was hard, but she had
a head on her. He forgot all about his
shoes in his new-found admiration of his
niece. Loma would know what to do.
He must call her at once.
Barefooted he crept to the side of the
house and squeaked, “Hi, Loma! Loma! ”
A MERRY-eyed girl looked over the
balcony and laughed.
“There is such a funny old barefooted
man calling you, Loma.”
She came to the railing and frowned
down at her uncle.
This was the last straw. This really
was too bad of hipi.
“Loma! You come down here at once.
I want a word with you.”
“Oh, what a dear old man! ” exclaimed
her guests,
“He is just’’—she bit back the words
“a hired picker” and said with a sudden
rush of honesty—“my aggravating old
Uncle Ben. I must see what he has been
up to.”
She took his arm and shook it. “What
on earth is the matter? Have the
chickens got out? Ada will be back
presently. Go and put your shoes on
at once.”
“It’s not only me corns now, Loma,
although they’re bad, very bad. It’s
Mam.”
“Where is “she?”
“In the onion-shed. She’s gone.”
“Nonsense! I expect she has fallen
asleep in the old willow chair. I told
you to keep her in the kitchen.”
But when she saw old Jenny she knew
that what she had prepared herself for
many times had actually happened. She
dismissed her friends and rang up the
old doctor and her lawyer cousin, Charles
Bracewell.
“J’ll be with you in twenty minutes,”
the doctor said.
“Well, what do you know?” exclaimed
Charles. “So the old lady has gone at
'last, eh? I’ll be right over.”
Uncle Ben had put on his sandshoes
again. “It will be all right for me to
go W the dairy, won’t it, Loma? Mam
would want me to go on just as if no-
thing had happned, I mind the time
when Esther died”
“Oh, go anywhere you like, I don’t
care,” she snapped.
TWO hours later the house was full
of relations,
“It will be a quiet family affair,” she
told them. “She had outlived all her
friends.; There is nobody now to re-
member her but the family. Let us get
it over without fuss.”
Charles shrugged his shoulders. “Mel-
ton was in the office when you rang up.
He’s getting a column ready—you know
the kind of thing. Death of an Old
Colonist—God Bless the Pioneers.
Hullo! What’s the matter with Uncle
Ben?”
“Mam forgot to leave me the dairy
money,” he quavered. “And me corns
are aching worse than ever.”
“You can all do what you like with
the old part of the house,” Loma told
the relations. “But the front is mine.
I paid for all the additions and furnish-
ings. You are welcome to anything of
Granny’s. I don’t care what you take.”
“She’s already picked the eyes out of
everything,” whispered a sullen-looking
woman.
The sons and daughters went through
the kitchen, opening and shutting familiar
drawers, examining tins on well-remem-
bered shelves, talking in low voices.
Uncle Ben sat alone in a corner nursing
Iris feet. Sometimes the grandchildren
spoke to him, asking questions.
“If it’s money you’re all after,” he
said suddenly, in a surprisingly loud
voice, “there isn’t any. You are wast-
ing your time, boys. Ask Charlie, he
knows all about it. The house and ten
acres are Loma’s.”
They looked shocked.
Upstairs Loma was writing letters.
She was free, free, free! Uncle Ben
could go and live with one of his brothers
or sisters. There were plenty of them.
She could entertain her friends without
the spectre of him in his dirty canvas
shoes hovering in the background. She
had suffered too much from the garrul-
ous, vindictive old man, who opened her
letters, sometimes burned them before she
had even seen them, and deliberately mis-
understood everything she said. Old
Jenny would soon be forgotten.
BUT in the morning she felt increasing
respect for the little wizened creature
who had lived so long. Why, Jenny had
a column all to herself in the morning’s
paper, and already the room was heavy
with the scent of many flowers. A great
pile of telegrams lay on the hall table
and one of the uncles held one in his
hand, “From the Governor,” he said
reverently.
“I don’t understand. I did not think
anyone would bother. After all, who
was Granny?”
He puffed himself out. “The Brace-
wells are a very old and respected
family.”
“And just look here. From the Old
Colonists!” Aunt Mary shuffled into
the room carrying another wreath.
“Here come the natives. Well, well.
I was expecting them to arrive any minute
Loma, I hope there is plenty of food in
the house.”
“Nobody can have the grandfather
clock. Don’t you let them take the
clock, Loma. I gave it to Mam when
I came back from the Boer War. It’s
yours and mine now, Loma.”
“Go and sit down, Uncle Ben,”
“I want the dairy money,” he whim-
pered, and she gave him a shilling to
get rid of him. Then she v/ent in search
of the grey-haired children and found
them all talking together, nodding and
ê
“You WERE silly to fall for that, love. Nobody takes a rise out of ME!"


IS
r\
c
7
<7*
m
THEY’D “ had a few,” and felt a bit merry, so they “ pushed
her along.”
Eye witnesses never finally established the actual speed, but all
agreed the driver hadn’t a chance of pulling up in time.
In the other car, two men were killed and a woman shockingly
disfigured ... All because one man “ had a few,” and made
that “ few ” a few .too many.
Excessive drinking and excessive speed are treacherous com-
panions for any motorist or passenger.
Be wise—don’t mix Drink and Driving.
DEATH SS SO PERM
*OAD
ISSUED BY THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD SAFETY CO UNCI
(Administered fay the Commonwealth Department of Transpor
RSY 24.83.29
SUNDRY SHOWS .
WILD AUSTRALIA.
One of the best shows seen in
Melbourne for a long time was
the All Australian Wild West
Rodeo, whose proprietor, Stan
Gill, asked the present writer
why The Bulletin, of all
papers, had never reported a
buckjumping show in its
habitat, back o’ Bourke or some-
where.
Mr. Gill having made a visit
to Tibooburra superfluous by
bringing his company of rough-
riders, unconquered cowgirls,
buckjumping bullocks, stock-
whip - crackers and knife-
throwers to Wirth’s Olympia,
Melbourne, life in the raw is
presented to the critic’s notice as
a study in relaxation.
The only unrelaxed person
seen in the course of a wild even-
ing of kicking heels, heaving
stomachs, bodies flying through
the air and hurtling through the
guy-ropes was the young man
gummed to a blackboard whose
business it was to remain im-
mobile while Smoky Dawson
hurled jungle-knives, daggers
made from ploughshares and
five-pound battle-axes at him.
But the buckjump riders
slipped between the death-
dealing hooves and the savage
teeth of the Bogong Terror,
Itchy Feet, Empty Saddle and
Love Me Sailor much more
gracefully than ballet-dancers,
and when they rebounded into
the air from an arched back, as
they did on occasion, they landed
on the tan exactly like cats;
and when a horse fell on them, a
raging mass of hatred, and every-
body thought their number was
up, out they slid like snakes,
sometimes still glued to the
saddle.
• The male centaurs came from
places as far apart as Ellison,
S.A., and Dirranbandi; and
two of them, Norman Cake-
bread and his brother Grahame
Cakebread, came from Fitzroy.
All of them have won titles in
their prdfession at Tamworth,
the Snowy River and other
places. Ethel Shipp, all the way
from Tibooburra, 216 miles out-
side Bourke, and Kitty Gill, who
rode the famous outlaw Firefly
at Grafton, were as easy at it as
the men and sat their mounts, if
you can call it sitting, as con-
fidently as armchairs.
Slumming.
The subediting effect of
dramatisation has been to im-
prove Ruth Park’s novel “The
Harp in the South” (Sydney In-
dependent); and what could be
done to tie together the slight
threads of Miss Park’s story
Leslie Rees has done.
But the play remains, for the
most part, a set of Sydney slum
scenes and portraits; worth see-
ing for Mary Hosking’s slum
mother, a firm chin dragging
fearful eyes from one slum day
into the next, the heavy body,
burdened with the past, slopping
behind in slippers,
Junee Cornell, as the well-bred
Miss Sheily, who has buried her
shame and her half-wit illegiti-
mate Johnny in the slums, acts
with some of the precision and
economy of the other Miss
Cornell in America ; and Ethel
Gabriel, as Grandma, shows
what varied and expressive
comedy can be got by manipu-
lation of mouth, eyes and voice.
Diana Davidson as the se-
duced daughter, Alan Herbert
as father and husband, and
Gwen Sherwood as a Surry Hills
madame reproduced a hundred
well-observed Australian charac-
teristics without quite fitting
them into complete characterisa-
tions ; and the same may be said
of the play—a well-played se-
duction scene was done so near
the footlights that it seemed
more like misconduct by mem-
bers of the audience ; a scene in
an abortionist’s rooms suffered
from the nervousness of the
players; and, towards the end,
scene piled on scene dashed
hopes of a denouement which
never came. It is a play in
which it is more pleasant to
travel than to arrive.
McMaster's Shrew.
There was one thing observ-
able at the McMaster production
of “The Taming of the Shrew”
at the Princess Theatre, Mel-
bourne —the audience warmed
up to Mr. Shakspeare as the play
proceeded.
McMaster’s interpretation of
Petruchio, the woman-tamer,
wasn’t, as they usually are,, all
noise. He somehow or other
conveyed that he liked his re-
actionary missus, enjoyed her
tantrums and saw through them,
and that his always doing the
opposite to what she thought
she wanted was as deliberate as
a modern psychoanalyst’s
treatment of a neurotic patient.
He had an excellent helpmate
in the Melbourne girl, Sheila
Helpmann, sister of the dancer.
She was the first Katharina seen
in Melbourne to make the char-
acter seem like a human being.
It was pretty to watch the blind
stare, the stupid look with the
mouth fallen open that came on
her face between her bouts of
aggression typical of the
neurotic.
Peter O’Shaughnessy, the Mel-
bourne actor, moved up to the
role of Baptista, Katharina’s
father, and played it very nicely.
Among subsidiary parts nobody
did so well as Phillip Colledge,
as the drunken impersonator of
Vincentio of Pisa,
The costumes and the settings
once or twice caught the atmo-
sphere of the period. That was
when the lights went off between
the scenes and all that was left
was candles. Then they momen-
tarily became as rich and won-
derful as an interior by Rem-
brandt.
The Contemporaries.
The best pictures in the Con-
temporary Exhibition at Sydney
Education Department Galleries
are two scintillating landscapes,
totally different from his char-
acteristically cumbersome work
in recent years, by George Dun-
can. At the other end of the
scale is Sydney Nolan’s “Burke
and Wills,” a frolic of imper-
tinent childishness.
In one of George Duncan’s
landscapes the buildings of
Berrima seem, not unnaturally,
to be somewhat staggered at his
change of style, but the cottage
in the second picture stands
firmly on its foundations, and
both paintings are remarkable
for rich masses of color —orange
and green and purple controlled
in a vivid harmony—and for
an astonishing brilliance of light,'
flashing from the canvas in a
development from pointillist
technique in pinpoints like dia-
monds.
Between these two poles of
maturity and youthful artless-
ness the exhibition offers the
usual mixture of experiment and
inefficiency, and the difficulty is,
as usual, to tell which is which.
Among the paintings which have
a touch of life or promise there
are A. D. Cameron’s “Boy,” who
looks oddly like Mo as he might
have been in childhood ; Yvonne
Francart’s “Still Life on Win-
dow-sill” with its comical Welsh
dogs overlooking a harbor scene
painted with fidelity and atmo-
sphere ; Joan Sands’s colorful
“Warriewood Beach”; F. Dray-
ton’s decapitated negro girls with
something of feminine charm in
their red lips and ribbons; Elsa
Russell’s cow; G. Eichler’s
“Country Street Scene” with its
impression of sunlight filtering
in vague green and yellow
through the trees ; Elwyn Lynn’s
patchwork Noah’s Ark ; Helen
Alderson’s bluebird and yellow
parrots ; Mona Hay’s too thinly-
painted “Dead Sea” ; Margaret
McNeil’s cinerarias in a mass of
pink and blue; K. Harrison’s
“Weathered Stone,” which, if it
were not for the scratchy lines
of the pen, might look as plea-
sant as some of Rah Fizefle’s
weathered stones ; and, among
the sculpture, Bruno Simon’s
“Young Man.”
On the whole it seems a milder
show than usual. Many stal-
warts of previous years—Fizelle,
Dobell, Drysdale, Herman, Or-
ban—are absent, and, except for
George Duncan’s paintings,
though there is plenty to engage
the attention, there is little to
hold it: even for the purposes
of controversy.
Artbursts.
There are signs of a battle be-
tween two opposing forces in
the show of W. F. De Neefe,
which opened the art season at
Melbourne Athenaeum. Some of
Mr. De Neefe’s landscapes, like
the sensitive “Noon, Bellerive,”
and “Wonga Park, Swimming
Pool,” and a still-life of ger-
aniums have some of the quality
of nature. His “Standard
Bearer,” depicting a crowd of
boy scouts, has the quality of
paint, and his portraits look
more like plasticine than flesh.
* * * *
Ambrose Griffin, an ex-pupil
of Septimus Power, continues at
his exhibition in Melbourne to
pay his master the compliment
of meticulous similarity. His
landscapes, portraits, of men,
dogs, horses and other cattle
have more of the accent of
Power than of nature, and his
nudes are more like still-life than
his still-life.
* * * *
Allen David, a young artist
born in India and apparently
self-taught, judging from the
absence of particular school con-
ventions in his painting, is hang-
ing oils at Kozminsky’s, Mel-
bourne. Some artists have lots
of technique but no observa-
tion, and their work looks dead,
Mr. David hgs no technique to
speak of, but seems to have suffi-
cient observation to be able to
give life to his crude brush-
strokes.
Matthews and Ralf.
Thomas Matthews and Eileen
Kali, two returned Australians,
have been giving a series of out-
standmg concerts at the Town
Hall, Melbourne. There was a.
vivid quality about their playing
which put it into the world class.
. The technical ability of
violinist Matthews appears to
come without the slightest effort
-—the effort having been made
be! orehand —and Eileen Raff's
powei ful arms and fingers stroke
out of the piano a richness that
isn t heard very often. At times
she seemed to drown the violin
m the Mozart Sonata in C
Major, but this may have been
due to the half-filled hall—a
poor compliment to two such
such artists.
An exhausting modern work
by Reizenstein with some lovely
muted violin playing in the last
movement was a feature of one
programme. Miss Ralf indulges
m the somewhat awesome habit
of supplying explanatory com-
ments, but she does it very nicely
and with feeling. The Kreutzer
Sonata provided both performers
with an opportunity for some
extremely lovely playing. The
argument between violin and
piano, which affected Tolstoy so
intensely that he had to bolt out
of the room whenever he heard
it, was handled with intelligence
of a high order.
At the Talkies.
Two French films now show-
ing in Sydney, “Jenny Lamour”
at the Variety, and “The
Phantom Wagon,” at the Savqy,
are substantially better than
most that have come recently
from Hollywood or Rank, and
owe much of their charm to
Louis Jouvet, an actor appear-
ing in both. “Jenny Lamour”
shows him as a police-inspector,
and although the plot is an
extremely hoary one his acting
makes amends even for the fact
that Jenny wasn’t half as hot as
she looked on the posters. In
“The Phantom Wagon,” a tale
of faith, Jouvet is a wastrel who
by dying on the stroke of mid-
night, New Year’s Eve, must
spend the next 12 months col-
lecting freshly liberated * souls.
The work of all —the souls, the
Salvation Army folk who try to
save them, and notably the
photographer who captured the
eerie cneaking wagon and its
driver on their rounds—is excel-
lent.
“The Search” (Sydney
Liberty) of a Czech mother for
her little boy parted from her by
Nazis leads through a wonderful
documentary of U.N.R.R.A.
child - reclamation amid the
rubble of American-occupied
Germany. Only the audience
knows where the boy is;
U.N.R.R.A. thinks he has
escaped and drowned; the
young American who cares for
him doesn’t know him from
Adam; but the mother finds
him just before you go out,
when he is almost drowned
again in the tears of the audi-
ence. Montgomery Clift makes
his debut—Jimmy-Stewart-but-
never-been-kissed. Aline Mac-
Mahon acts well ag the
U.N.R.R.A. woman ; Ivan Jandl
has found himself as the lost
boy ; but Leopold Borkowski as
the little Jewish boy is the de-
light of the show; and Jarmila
Novotna is either so good or so
bad that one cannot decide
whether she is a good actress or
merely a Czech mother.
“Road House” (Plaza): Ida
Lupino croons to Cornel Wilde
with a sound like porridge cook-
ing and Richard Widmark, m
spite of this handicap, makes it
a reasonable thriller.
“Luck of the Irish” (May-
fair): In the woods of Ireland
where Tyrone Power meets an
outsized pixie (Cecil Kellaway)
cobbling shoes by a waterfall,
the film has a trace of agreeable
fantasy. However, the pixie is
taken to New York and made a
butler of. The rest is too awful
to talk about.


m
m
m
Y J *•:• \\> |l|
I i V \ \
i \ \
mmm t - \
:% % 4
%. \ * \
■mm-
mmm
p ***/ w IPDDV WHAT'*! \
JANE. I DON'T OUR \
GET IT. HOW ROMANCE IS A SUBJECT
COME I DON T > roß YOUR DENTIST I WONT
REGISTER WITH get HIS ADVICE ON-
YOU ANY MORE?/ on bad gKEATH? PLEASE 1 .
** TO COMBAT BAD BREATH, I RECOMMEND
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM! FOR SCIENTIFIC
TESTS PROVE THAT IN 7 OUT OF 10 CASES,
INSTANTLY STOPS BAD BREATH
. THAT ORIGINATES IN THE MOUTH' f
7
*
\
m.
LATER, thanks
to Colgate Dental
Cream
V 5
v
COLGATE’S ACTIVE PENETRATING FOAM
y GETS INTO HIDDEN CREVICES BETWEEft
TEETH-HELPS CLEAN OUT DECAYING FOOI
RARTICLES-STOP STAGNANT SAUVA ODORS-
'I REMOVE THE CAUSE OF MUCH BAD BREATH
•m
<7
(K\
■
m
»0 I REGISTER? BOY! YOU SAID IT!
AND COLGATE DENTAL CREAM GETS THE CREDIT!
COLGATE
DENTAL CREAM
Cleans Your Breath
While It Cleans
, Your Teeth
sn
'5S>
L
Jn <**
Always usi.
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
t oil?' Y ou ect hetorq
every date,.
n
e hp*
10 «
o _
? <0
ai
i n
NY
t> o>
fOR
rAC^
ACC«
aHO
tION
STIHC
tfflTCH £S
185*
SINCt
suis se
vill£ r£T
VMHft m*sp
hWI
'C
0
(5
Millions of miles of road
tests proved that NEW
Goodyear De Luxe Tyres
give even longer mileage
than the famous Goodyear
Tyres they replace.
WIDER, FLATTER TREAD
More rubber on the road
means cleaner starts, safer
stops and longer tread life.
HEAVIER SHOULDER
Makes new De Luxe huskier
yet more uniformly resilient—
gives longer tyre life.
STRONGER CORD BODY
Permits a heavier tread —en-
sures greater safety, longer
wear.,
Two treads: all-weather at right, rib ahtve
K
vi-
nte
inaL
Cl 9-16
tSPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
The likely effect of the inch-or-so
of rain which fell on Caulfield in the
early morning complicated the task
offthose trying to decide if San
Domenico, with his record weight for
a three-year-old, or the older and
more favorably handicapped St.
Razzle looked the better prospect for
Saturday’s Futurity Stakes. Opinion
eventually was evenly divided, the
pair starting equal favorites at 5 to 2.
Those who plumped for St. Razzle
proved right.
The presence of the outsider Peter
Robinson close beside San Domenico
as he set the pace in the early stages
suggested that San Domenico was
either not going as fast as he could
or was not caring for his heavy weight
on the slippery going. Whatever the
case, he was unable to produce any
sort of a finish in the straight. Com-
mencing the run home, Ungar came
past a faltering San Domenico and
looked for a moment the winner;
St. Razzle, however, came on the
outside with a brilliant run to beat
Ungar by a half-length while Ellerslie,
another three-year-old, was an un-
expectedly good third.
Behind the placegetters, Beau Gem,
San Domenico, Peter Robinson and
Attley finished in that order. The
field of seven was one of the smallest
in the history of the race. A like
number started when Ajax won his
second Futurity in 1939; beyond
that, ofie ,has to go back to 1899,
when Bobadil won in a field of six.
The same Bobadil, incidentally, was
a horse of some parts; during that
particular Autumn carnival,he also
won the St. Leger, the Australian
Cup and the three-miles Champion
Stakes.
Present observer does not subscribe
to the widely expressed opinion that
there was “no possible excuse” for
San Domenico’s failure. The simple
fact is that the Hua gelding was
attempting to do, in the weight-
carrying line, what no other three-
year-old has managed to do in the
50-years history of the race, and it
was no disgrace that he should have
failed. Provided that he has taken
no harm from his hard race, San
Domenico should prove a very dif-
ferent proposition in the Newmarket,
with the distance and scale of weights
much more in his favor,
San Domenico’s Futurity “failure”
may have been something of a bless-
ing in disguise. Had he . won, he
would have almost certainly been
given the full 101 b penalty for the
Newmarket, since, though the Futur
ity might carry no penalty itself, tne
handicapper waited till after iQwas
run before announcing the New-
market increase for San Domenico.
As it is he has been penalised only
51b., in consequence of his Oakleigh
Plate victory. San Domenico will
now carry 9st. in the Newmarket and,
on a decent track, he should win.
* * * *
The Whirlaway filly Lady Pirouette
(C. McLatchie) scored yet another
excellent win in the six-furlongs
Merson Cooper Stakes. She led all
the way and comfortably held ott
Sti Comedy and Iron Duke, who
challenged near the finish; it takes a
particularly good filly to beat a colt
of the quality of St. Comedy. Really,
Lady Pirouette seems too brilliant to
augur well for her later career ; so
many of these outstandingly brilliant
fillies subsequently fail to live up to
their two-year-old promise. How-
ever, Lady Pirouette has at least fully
repaid the 2100 guineas she cost as a
yearling—and expensive yearlings only
too often fail to do that. Saturday s
race was worth £lOOO to the winner,
bringing her earnings from four wins
to over £3500.
The three-year-old Clement was in-
stalled favorite for the 12-furlongs
Woodcliff, but, almost as usual, the
result of the distance handicap left
most punters holding' waste paper.
Saxonian (R. Heather) led,from start
to finish to beat the favorite by a
comfortable five lengths; Dhutia was
third. With a lightweight of 7.8,
Saxonian would have some sort of a
show in the Australian Cup; certainly
it would be difficult to fancy for the
Cup any of those who finished Behind
Saxonian on Saturday.
•r .
After having shaped poorly in
earlier starts, Sydney sprinter Cognac
(W. Shipton) paid expenses of his
trip south by downing Heliofly and
Our Title in the six-furlongs Hawks-
burn Handicap; Cognac started at
15 to 1. Other events at Caulfield
saw Damon (A. Breasley) take the
mile Stanley Plate for three-year-’olds,
while Thun derhea d (A. Ward) and
Aiming High (W. Williamson) won
divisions of the St. Clair Trial (9f.).
Having her first start in 12 months,
Aiming High is a four-year-old mare,
full-sister to Melbourne Cup-winner
Sirius and St. Leger-candidate Rocket
Gun;
* * * *
While it lacked somewhat in
quality, and saw favorites beaten in
every race but one, Saturday’s racing
at Moorefield had its bright moments
—notably the 2min. occupied
by the running of the 10-furlongs
Rockdale Mixed Stakes. |
The Rockdale Mixed was restricted
to apprentice riders who had not rid-
den more than five winners, and 16-
year-old Sid Carter, having his first
ride in a race, showed himself to be,
on the day, the best judge of pace
among ’em; leastwise he showed that
he knows how fast is flat-out. Riding
Le Petit Due, a nag of no notable
ability, young Carter went for the
doctor from the start, and the others,
most of them busily engaged in
getting in each other’s road, let him
go. The judge gave the winning
margin as 10 lengths—he was prob-
ably too convulsed to count the other
half-dozen. The Mr. Standfast filly
Loyal, who should have won the race,
was the distant second.
Though most of them had almost
certainly done their cash, the crowd
managed to laugh at that one, but
they turned nasty when the three-
ycax-old Pentheus colt Spanish Duke
(A. Podmore) took the six-furlongs
Flying. Spanish Duke, too, led all
•the way to down Persian Prince and
Rio Fe; the previous week, at
Canterbury, he had been beaten a
bare half-head in a Mixed Stakes,
which explained, though it did not
justify, the crowd’s ire.
With Le Petit Due and Spanish
Duke home in successive races it
seemed asking a bit much of the
aristocracy to send Lone Duke out
favorite for the mile Moorefield
Handicap, but the Kelso-trained four-
year-old won gamely in the best
finish of the day. There was little
more than half a length between the
first five, with Beau Brummell,
Phalanx, Bubille and Prince Mohican
following the winner home in that
order. Lone Duke was ridden by J.
Lordan, just back from a spell on
the “outer.”
In other events at Moorefield,
Ellmay Lass (G. Moore) and Tan-
talus (J. Thompson) lost their maiden
certificates in restricted events for
two-year-olds, while Benvolo (F.
Williams), a three-year-old Fresco
colt, broke his duck in a mile Mixed
Stakes. Exalted (J. Lordan) and
Double Gift (R. Selkrig) took divi-
sions of the six-furlongs Welter.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
March Nursery; Achilles, 1;
Favor, 2; Vicereine, 3. Three-year-
old : Persist, 1; Freedom, 2; Grey
Nurse, 3. Two-year-old Encourage;
Dark Sovereign, 1; Portrait, 2;
Tantalus, 3. March Encourage:
Loyal, 1; Step In, 2; Tamunga, 3.
Denham Court Handicap: Bern-
brook, 1; Heroic Sovereign, 2;
Karachi, 3. Warwick March Handi-
cap : Invictus, 1; Mentone, 2;
Spearex, 3. Edensor Park Handicap:
Prince Mohican, 1; Monogram, 2;
Circus Boy, 3.
* * * *
The auditors have finished sorting
out the Olympic Games finances, and
reveal a profit of £29,850 —reteipts
£599,850 and expenses £570,000.
Quite a good effort, considering that
preparations for show extended
over a couple of years (administra-
tion charges over two years, £91,400).
Total attendance at all centres for
the Games was 1,247,283. The num-
ber of competitors entered for the 17
sports, together with officials, was
6572, from 59 nations.
* * * *
; As could be expected, the omission
of Keith Miller from the team to
tour South Africa caused a first-rate
storm. Students of the form shown
in the past by some cricket “experts”
might have also anticipated that the
said experts would substitute personal
invective, directed mainly against
Bradman, for intelligent critical dis-
cussion. , Curiously, the “victim” of
“Hold it, Miss Michaelson !”
the “outrage,” Miller himself, has
said nothing other than to offer
generous congratulations to those
chosen in his stead, and to express
Some relief at having respite from the
year-round grind of first-class cricket.
It is a pity that Miller, playing
at his top, is not a member of the
team. Otherwise the 14 chosen are
an excellent band, with the new-
bloods K. Archer (Q.), A. Walker'
(N.S.W.), G. Noblet (S.A.) and J.
Moroney (N.S.W.) thoroughly deserv-
ing selection. The others are Hassett,
Morris, Harvey, Loxton, McCool,
Tallon, Saggers, Lindwall, lan John-
son and Bill Johnston. The inclusion
of fast-bowlers Walker, Lindwall and
Johnston breaks new ground, no
doubt influenced by the work of the
fast men on the recent tour of Eng-
land. In past visits to South Africa
the spin bowlers have reaped most
of the harvest.
* * * *
Sheffield Shield:
Victoria v. S. Australia at Adelaide
—the‘last Shield match of the sea-
son —was a benefit to Arthur Richard-
son, who, with George Giffen and
Jack Reedman, can be ranked among
the great allrounders produced in S.A.
For the first time this season bowlers
were in absolute control. Victoria’s
first innings crumbled for 229,
of which N. Harvey got 41,
Howard 35 and Stackpole 33; and
nine were down for 174 when Bill
Johnston waved a long handle to
smite 38. O’Neill (5 for 45), Noblet
(2 for 39> and McLean (2 for 66)
did the mopping-up. It looked
guineas to gooseberries that South
Australia’s strong batting XI would
wipe this tally off the board, but they
were outed for 154. Bradman made
30 before Johnston clean-bowled him,
and only Ridings (17) and Lewis (16)
put up any sort of resistance. Just
promoted to big cricket, Baird took
4 for 69. In their second knock
Victoria had five down for 164
y (Loxton 69 n. 0.) at stumps. Thirteen
wickets fell for 286 on the first day
and 12 for 261 on the second day.
Arthur J. Richardson, who pockets
the gate of this match, will be 60 in
July. He played his first Test v.
England in Sydney, December, 1924,
and scored 22 and 98. Then, trip-
ping to England with the 1926 Aus-
tralian XI, Richardson scored his
lone Test century—just the even 100 —
at Leeds. In all matches on that
trip he scored 770 runs (av. 29.61)
and took 66 wickets (av. 17.50).
Although made as far back as 1923,
Richardson’s 280 for South Australia
at Adelaide is still the highest indi-
vidual score made against an English
team in Australia.
* * * *
Up against Joe Webster (10.3) at
Leichhardt, George Sands (10.5 i) had
his eyebrow opened in the fourth
round, and thereafter was in strife.
Despite stopping a good share of
solid swings, Webster managed to
concentrate on his opponent’s injury
with snappy rights, and that may
have earned him his narrow points
decision.


qmr
❖
e The
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
' Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
. _________ . BP2-49
'BANISH GREY HAIR
with
NASONS
Available a(
I Anthony Horderns
JACK
ARTS
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instruments
for any clan of Machinery
0> Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
L&c
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
tot/'
tJZ W p tT' eappl °-
J*o tables* * tas te.
lum *or ? ?° ns °rvi c i <(!nG .
L P, "?.PPfe anrf .....
Cru /, ,Ce - lc kers (
fi,/ Up t/l g *jhake r for a „ ts an d c
!erve *'»> fXrs
of
P'Heappi,
water
* rl nks)
a h . '
and
ë
SOS
H|
SSfIW
o
ißsee*
■ In fact, it’s fhy star turn, and
I don’t know who like it
most, the men or the women. It’s very
little trouble, and the flavour! It’s
the sort of taste you dream about!
Try it—here’s how you make it”.
SEND FOR THE FREE VICKERS GIN
RECIPE BOOK
Recipes of sixty popular, appetising and easy-to-
niix cocktails have been brought together in
this invaluable FREE book. A copy will be
forwarded to you with pleasure if you write to
The United Distillers Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 759 G,
Elizabeth Street. Melbourne.
ICKERS GIN
FAMOUS SINCE I 7 S 0
SAVE FOR THE THINGS YOU WANT SAVE FOR SECURITY
VG23/33
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Eire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch; Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane,
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Mahager.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of , Captain Atnyas
by Dolf Wyllarde, any condition. —
4578.
To buy copy of 200 Metres Down
by Claude B. de Sato, published by
American Radio Relay League about
1936—4582.
To borrow or buy Copy of The
Camp, produced by the Germans for
British p.o.w., containing short story
called “The Dragoman Who Was
An Artist.”—4581.
To buy The Frensham Book (Art
in Australia, 1934), The Australian
Stud Book, vol. 19, and The Aus-
tralasian Turf Register for 1936, 1938,
1943, 1944.—4579.
To hear from anyone who wishes
to sell books, pictures or documents
relating to horseracing or thorough-
bred breeding.—4580.
Information Sought.
Were any of the N.S.W. stamps
lithographed ? If so, which ?
In August, 1859, the then current
2d. diadem was lithographed owing
to the 2d. plate being damaged. This
stamp is very scarce. In 1897, Id.
and stamps were lithographed
and sold at Is. and 2s. 6d. respec-
tively, the amount realised in excess
of postal values being devoted to a
fund for establishing a hospital for
consumptives.
* * * *
Details of Adam Lindsay Gordon’s
life in England and reason why he
came to Australia?
He was the son of a military officer
who had served in India and was
afterwards Professor of Oriental
Languages at Cheltenham College.
Adam was born at .Fayal, in the
Azores, on October 19, 1833, and
educated at Cheltenham, Worcester,
and the Royal Military Academy,
Woolwich, also keeping a few terms
at Merton College, Oxford. At none
of these places was he a satisfactory
student, and his exploits as a boxer
and steeplechase rider so irritated his
family that he was sent off to Aus-
tralia in 1853.
* ♦ * *
How to grow flowering gums from
seed ?
Put the seed-pods on a sheet of
paper, or in a shallow tray in the
sun, and wait uritil they burst or
open sufficiently to allow the seed to
be shaken out. Sow this at once,
the seed’s own depth, in a pot or
pan, well drained, in sandy soil: see
that the soil surface does not become
too dry, or too wet. When the seed-
lings have made two sets of leaves,
transplant into .small pots in sandy
soil that will not cake or bake, and
when six inches high they can be
planted ' where you want them to
grow.
♦ * * *
What is the rule concerning the
appointment of referee in Davis Cup
tennis matches?
Regulation 25 states: “At least
three days before each tie a referee,
from whose decision there shall be
no appeal, shall be appointed by
common consent of the captains of
the competing sides, subject to the
approval of the Lawn Tennis Asso-
ciation or corresponding organisation
of the nation where the tie shall be
played. Failing such appointment,
the Lawn Tennis Association, or
corresponding organisation of the
nation where the tie shall be played,
shall forthwith appoint a referee.”
* * * *
(1) What is the signal given by an
umpire in a cricket match when the
ball is hit for six? (2) What is the
present rule for l.b.w. ?
(1) Umpire raises both hands above
his head. (2) M.C.C, Law 39 states
(Wisden, 1948); The striker is out
leg-before-wicket “If with any part
of his person, except his hand, which
is in a straight line between wicket
and wicket, even though the impact
be above the level of the bails, he
intercept a ball which has not first
touched his bat or hand, and which,
in the opinion of the umpire, shall
have, or would have, pitched on a
straight line from the bowler’s wicket
to the striker’s wicket, or shall have
pitched on the off-side of the striker’s'
wicket, provided always that the ball
would have hit the wicket.”
♦ * * * '
(1) How and when to disbud chry-
santhemums to get quality flowers,
and number of buds to be left on
each plant ? (2) Where are the flowers
marketable in Sydney?
(1) When the buds show in March
remove all except two on each stem;
early in the morning is best when
stems are firm. Later, nip out the
weakest; that will leave about half-a-
dozen flowers on each plant. Give
plants a dose of liquid manure every
week from this stage. (2) Sydney
City Markets have a flower section;
better plan, however, is to consult
city florists with a sample. Large
white blooms bring up to 3s. per
dozen; smaller kinds find ready sale
at from Is. a bunch of 15 flowers.
In both cases stems should be at
least 15in. long for decorative display.
* * * ♦
Can boronia plants be raised from
seed; if so, where can it be pur-
chased? What kinds will grow in the
Sydney suburban area?
Like many other native plants,
boronia can be raised from seed.
Sow in boxes or pans, cover lightly
with soil and grass clippings; ger-
mination usually Jakes up to a fort-
night. Any kind of light soil which
has not been treated with lime is
suitable. Try Anderson & Co., 399
George-street, Sydney. Floribunda,
pale-pink flowers in loose clusters;
Serrulata (native rose), rosy-pink
flowers; and Megastigma, brown
highly-perfumed flowers, grow well in
Sydney.
* * * *
How to stain and varnish Oregon
doors that have not previously been
treated ?
The doors should be lightly sand-
papered, wiped with mineral turps to
remove any grease having been
deposited through moisture in the
hands. Then apply a clear wood
filler, allow to partly dry, then wipe
off across the grain. When thoroughly
dry lightly scuff, i.e., rub with fine
sandpaper, then apply either one coat
of light oak flat oil stain or light oak
varnish stain, following when dry
with a coat of good-quality varnish.
If wood is very porous, two coats of
varnish may be necessary.
When did the sailing ship Omega
arrive in Melbourne during the ’fifties
of last century? How many immi-
grants did she bring here ?
She was a ship of 765 tons. On
her first voyage to Melbourne she
left London on October 5, 1853, and
arrived on January 17, .1854, after a
passage of 99 days. She had 305
Government immigrants. On the
return trip she cleared on February
25, 1854, for Bombay. On her second
voyage she left Southhampton on
January 30, 1855, and arrived at Mel-
bourne on May 1, after a passage
of 90 days. Dalgety, Cruickshank &
Co. were agents for the vessel. She
brought 336 Government immigrants,
and William Arthur was the surgeon.
« * * *
How to pickle green figs?
Figs should be fully grown, just
turning color and tinted inside; if
too green, they will be dry and hard.
May be peeled or not. Place them
in an enamel or china basin, and
pour over them a pickle made as
follows: Enough vinegar to cover the
figs, an equal quantity of white sugar,
a stick or two of cinnamon, six
cloves, a teaspoon of mace, one
grated nutmeg—this is enough for
31b. figs, increase or decrease pro-
portionately. Allow to stand for three
days. Then bring to boiling-point in
a preserving-pan, simmer gently for
ten minutes, and store in a stone jar
or glass jars for a few weeks before
using. Must not be prepared in
metal containers unless enamel lined.
Brief Answers.
M.W.; There is no successful
home method of sharpening the clip-
pers. It is work for a specialist, and
can only be done on a special surfac-
ing machine G.W.P.: The N.S.W.
Marriage Act provides that marriage
by a Registrar in N.S.W. may be
celebrated only by the Registrar of
Marriages for the district within
which the intended bride ordinarily
resides. The fee is £1 10s 1.M.:
Write Chief Electoral 'Office for
the Commonwealth, Canberra....
J.N.M.: You probably refer to the
following quotation from Ralph
Waldo Emerson: “The less govern-
ment we have the better—the fewer
laws and the less confided power”....
J.E.W.: Makers of the lines say
that their reaction to dyes is not yet
well enough known for the informa-
tion you require. Suggest you
experiment with small pieces treated
in any of the dyes on the market.
For further advice write Imperial
Chemical Industries Ltd., 170 George-
street, Sydney W.R.: Blood ten-
sion rather than pressure demands
attention* Hardening of the arteries
possible in each case. Avoid ex-
tremes, Simplify the diet, and curtail
salt and condiments. Milk and cream
permissible, also sherry and dilute
alcohol in moderation. Black coffee
and red meats in excess not advised.
J.M.M.: (1) Inquire at any pub-
lic hospital. Your local doctor will
arrange for consultation. (2) Fruit
and vegetable juices assist digestion
and are helpful to gallstone subjects.
Olive oil in large doses is suggested
as a solvent. Operation usually ad-
vised .... 5.0.5.: Hydronephrosis is
the medical term for dropsical inflam-
mation of the kidneys. The condi-
tion may be congenital or acquired.
There is usually no relation to tuber-
culosis. Treatment is entirely sur-
gical J.W.: (1) Vitamin content
of wheat and ryemeal closely allied.
Wholemeal bread made with either
is reducing rather than fattening, as in
the case of white bread. (2) Vitamins
A, B, G; also phosphorus and iron.
(3) Lean meat as steak is acid-form-
ing ; nutritive value of grilled is
greater than that of fried and boiled
foods. Proteins are present in vary-
ing proportion from 10 to 20 per
cent. (4) Lightning follows line of
least resistance... .L.J.G.: Cannot
trace any correspondence course on
the , subject. The following books
will be found helpful: Canework by
Charles Crampton, Rushwork by C.
Crampton and E. Mochrie and Rush-
work by A. A. Crampton F.J.S. :
The Society of Arts and Crafts of
N.S.W., 112 a King-street, Sydney,
has correspondence courses in Fabric
Printing and in design and color.
... .C.J.P.H.: No knowledge of any
special name being given to a child
born in jail L.E.: (1) The
aboriginal population of Australia in
1788 has been estimated at over
250,000. Because of the lack of
accurate data, however, this estimate
must be regarded as only a rough
approximation. (2) At the 1921
census it was estimated that there
were 60,300 full-blood aboriginals in
Australia. (3) See following issues of
The Commonwealth Official Year-
Book, No. 17, pp. 951-61; No, 22,
pp. 914-16; No. 23, pp. 687-696....
L.M.: Red spider on bean plants
can be shifted by applications of
derridust under and over the leaves
every few days or by spraying with
lime-sulphur solution. Badly-affected
plants should be dug up and burnt.


If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original
whispering, smiling and frowning, look-
ing very wise and very foolish.
“I am glad you are all here. What is
to become of Uncle Ben? He is getting
foolishly old. Can’t one of you take
your eldest brother? I have had these
old people on my hands for years.”
Uncle Edward cleared his throat. “I’m
sorry, Loma. You understand I’d like
to have the dear old boy, but we live in
a flat —no room to swing a cat.”
“And I cannot take him. An old lady
like me. I just gad about from one
daughter to the other. I have no home
of my own.”
“He is very tottery, Loma, and I have
the rheumatics. It would not be fair to
Amy to saddle her with another old
man.”
“It’s no good anyone expecting me to
take him,” shrilled Aunt Dora. “Me!
Whh all the expenses I have. He needs
a nurse, and where would you get one
who’d stay a week with him!”
“Very well. He can go to the Old
Men’s Home,” said Loma. ‘That is all
there is left, because I am through. I
have had all I’m going to stand from
now on.”
“There, there! Don’t be upset, dear,”
said one of the aunts. “We have bought
him new shoes and Ted is lending him a
dark suit.”
“He has clothes of his own. Aunt
Mary. He just won’t wear them.”
“I know, dear, but they are full of
moth-holes.”
Uncle Ben sidled into the room. “They
all think Mam had money,” he chuckled.
“They are whispering, the younger ones,
that maybe there’ll be quite a fortune,
she made so much, they say, and lived
so near. But up at the dairy they know
different. They know how she parted
with the land bit by bit. I’ve asked my
-friends along tomorrow, Loma.”
WHEN it was all over and they were
driving home together, the old man
gave a mighty sob and Loma stopped
the car, full of the sudden virtue that
death leaves in its wake.
“Don’t worry, Uncle Ben. I daresay
we shall get along quite well together,
you and I.”
“You said that when she went out I
went, too. You didn’t mean it, did you,
Loma?”
“I did at the time, Uncle Ben, but it
seems that we will have to go on living
together”’
He screwed one eye at her. “Well,
then maybe I’ll leave you the grand-
father clock in my will. Mary wound it
last night. She shouldn’t have done that.
Mam would never let anyone wind that
clock but me.”
“You shall always do it, Uncle Ben.”
“It’s the Old Colonists’ reunion next
month. Mam and me never missed.”
“I’ll take you in the car.”
“You wouldn’t take Mam and me last
time. We had to walk to the bus, corns
and all.”
Oh, if he was always going on like this
she had better get rid of him now, before
it was too late. His face wrinkled with
pain and he moved restlessly.
“Don’t grieve for Granny, Uncle Ben.
I know just how you feel.”
“Let’s get home,” he said testily. “What
are you waiting for? You might have
a little consideration for me after all I’ve
done for you. The dairy will be closed
if you don’t hurry.”
LOOKING through the windscreen she
saw not only the long road, but sL
picture of herself, standing on her bal-
cony, watching him as he shuffled in his
old canvas shoes up to the corner where,
forty years ago, the Bracewell dairy had
stood. Here he would sit. Old Identity,
sipping his beer and “minding the time.”
A few old men would sit on the bench
outside the hotel with him, and listen
while he “minded the time” when the
Bracewell family owned all the land
“hereabouts,” when he was a lad milking
the cows on the Bracewell farm and
bringing the great buckets up to the old
stone dairy in which Jenny made her
famous butter.
POLLY
By GEOFF BINGHAM
\ HAT do you reckon’s coming,
\\j Dad?” says Jim Reggin, and
YY Mr. Reggin’s blessed if he
knows.
A clinking and a rattling, a sweet music
of harness, a nodding of a great draught’s
head, and the man walking beside it is
al& nodding his head. Clink and a
rattle and then silence as the two draw
up before the cyclone gate.
“It’s old Hicken, begod,” says Pat,
who is “old” himself if if comes to that.
“Well, fancy, old Hicken, eh?” says
Jim as though it must be strange if his
father sees it that way.
“Comes to see you once in a blue
moon,” says Pat, who, anyway, never goes
to visit Mr. Hicken. “Wonder what he’s
got?”
Jim thinks that is fairly obvious, but
he knows Pat is wondering what might
be wrong with the horse. #
They see it is a mare, a fine stamp of
a beast, fat as butter, bull-necked, high-
arched on the rump, and walking with
sure tread.
“Fancy old Hicken with that, eh?”
says Pat as though Mr. Hicken possess-
ing a fine mare passes understanding.
When Mr. Hicken arrives he halts a
moment, and all the clink and rattling
ceases while he wipes sweat from his
forehead and deliberately throws it to the
ground.
< < L_J OT,” says Mr. Hicken, standing
ft still and gazing about at the heat.
“Hot, all right,” says Pat. “Hot as
we’ve had this summer.”
“Yes,” says Mr. Hicken. He peers
towards Mr. Reggin. “Pat, isn’t it?”
“And Harry Hicken, eh?” says Pat.
“Years since I saw you.”
“Years,” agrees Mr. Hicken excitedly.
“Years it is. I was saying to myself this
morning, ‘lt’s years since I saw old Pat.’
Loord, the times we used to see each
other in those days, and now we never
have a sight of one another. Yes, it’s a
long time, all right.”
“Nice sort of a mare you’ve got there,”
says Pat.
“Like it, eh?”
“Ye-es,” says Pat conservatively. “It’s
all right to look at.”
“Ah,” says Mr. Hicken. He snuffles
through his nose, wipes it with the back
of his hands, looks lovingly at the mare,
fondles it about the neck.-
“Good old Dolly,” he says.
He turns to Pat. “I’ve worked her,”
he says, as though it is something to have
done that. “You mightn’t think so, but
I’ve worked her.”
“Work all right, eh?” shouts Pat.
“Yes,’’ says Mr. Hicken mildly.
“Works all right. Bit fast. Bit too fast.”
“No good for you,” says Pat, still talk-
ing loudly. “Fast mare no good for
you.” It has suddenly struck Mr. Reggin
that perhaps Mr. Hicken wishes to sell
his mare.
“Too fast, all right,” mumbles Mr.
Hicken, but then turns severely to his
neighbor. “Mind you,” he maintains,
“for a man who can work a fast horse
there is nothing better. Gets through the
work, she does.” He pauses a moment,
looking into the spaces of Wirril Creek,
calmly into the valley, contemplatively
towards the hill. “I says to myself, I
says, that if I can find a man who can
work her, then I’ve got a buyer.”
“Ah,” says Pat, and he gives Jim a
wink.
“And,” says Mr. Hicken, wagging a
finger at Pat Reggin, “I hear then that
your horse foundered last week and died
on you.”
“Not it,” says Pat in answer to the
first part of the statement. “No horse
of mine ever foundered. Twisted gut
it was. Twisted in the bowel. You can’t
do nothing about that.”
“Twisted, eh?” says Mr. Hicken, who
appears only to have heard the one word.
Pat Reggin seats himself comfortably
against the split fence and Jim, who
knows the signs, also makes himself com-
fortable, drawing a paspalum stalk on
which to bite, but Mr. Hicken remains
standing, holding the winkers, leaning
slightly against the mare. He realises,
perhaps, that in a lifetime one may only
have one animal which dies from a
twisted bowel, and he understands that a
man would wish to speak about it.
“CTATURDAY night,” says Mr.
Reggin, “I saw that horse as good
as you or me, Baldy—that’s her mate,
the chestnut —he comes up to the fence
on his side, and she comes up on her
side, and they sniff each other, and
Baldy walks off and never comes near
again, for surely to God they both knew
there was something wrong. Human it
Was. Next morning Biddy’s sitting on
her haunches like a dog, and sick! —you
never seen the like of it. Jim here gives
her a dose, but I tell Jim she’s past a
drench. And,” says Pat with lugubrious
triumph, “she is, too. Vet. says it’s no
good after they sit up.”
“No!” says Mr, Hicken with violent
emphasis. Then he shakes his head sadly
for poor Biddy sitting up past all hope
of drenching.
“Then next day she dies,” says Pat
sorrowfully. “Best worker I ever had,
although, mind you, she were a fair bitch
to break in. Stubborn.”
“Hard to break in, eh?”
“Just when she was needed, too,” says
Pat ruminatively. - “Threw up her legs,
then drew them in. Died of cramps,
really.”
“Terrible,” says Mr. Hicken, shaking
his head and seeing Biddy die of the
cramps.
“The vet. says she never had no
chance,” says Pat. “He says you can’t
do nothing for a twisted gut.”
“Ah, well,” says Mr. Hicken.
He looks directly at Pat. “I thought,”
he says, “that you would be wanting a
mare. 1 says that to myself as soon as I
hear about your mare dying. ‘Pat’ll want
a horse,’ I said ; ‘soiniething that’ll work’.”
“H’m,” says Pat, only slightly touched
by Mr. Hicken’s solicitude.
“Mind you,” continues Mr. Hicken,
almost tearfully, “it isn’t that I don’t
want to part with Dolly—l do. She’s a
bit fast for me. I said, ‘l’ll tell Pat she’s
fast, and if he doesn’t want her, then he
needn’t take her. If he can’t manage her,
then that’s his business, and he’s only
got to tell me’.” Mr. Hicken’s eyes peer
into distance, and he mutters away to
unseen listeners. “I’d never expect a
rAan to take a horse he couldn’t work,”
he explains; continuing the conversation
in the third person. “No, that wouldn’t
be the thing.” Here he is interrupted by
Pat Reggin, with caution in his voice.
“Well, I won’t say I don’t want a horse,
Harry,” he admits.
“No?”
“I do,” says Pat in mild triumph, “but
then it’s got to be good, and at a fair
price.”
“Well I knowed that,” says Mr. Hicken
eagerly. “I says ‘Pat don’t want a dear
horse, and you can’t ask a lot for a fast
horse,’ Now if my boy were home, he’d
drive Dolly easily, but he isn’t, and she’s
only eating her head off.”
“I’ll give her a go,” says Pat, a little
grandly.
“Ah,” says Mr. Hicken. He waggles
a cautioning finger at Pat. “Don’t tell me
I didn’t say she was fast.”
“I’ll put her in the slide,” says Pat.
“Double harness. You put the winkers
on Baldy, Jim.”
Baldy takes the newcomer quite natur-
ally, submits to harness, and stands
quietly. “Stand there, Dolly,” commands
Mr. Hicken. He fusses around her.
“Here, you old tiger, get out of the way,”
says Pat.
“She’s fast,” says Mr. Hicken.
“She’ll stand,” says Jim. “Let me get
at her, Mr. Hicken.”
“Fast, you’d never believe it,” says Mr.
Hicken.
“Don’t tie her back, Jim,” says Pat.
“Give her a bit of trace, and a long
coupling.”
“She’s terrible jittery when you go to
hook her to the traces,” says Mr. Hicken
with a worried expression.
Dolly stands calmly whilst the traces
are hooked. This appears to surprise
Mr. Hicken no end so that he can only
say “Goodness gracious me. Well,
what do you know about that, eh? She
never moved. Well, well.” Then he
adds, almost severely, “But she’s fast,
though.”
PAT, who is a large man, red of flesh
and face, white-haired, and com-
manding in the grand old manner, and
more so, perhaps, in his farm clothes,
stands astride the slide like a warrior
going into action—an Irish warrior at
that. Jim, as befits the son of a warrior,
walks behind.
No procession ever advanced more
steadily. Sedately the slide moves for-
ward, Dolly straining at the traces,
prancing slightly, but undisturbed.
“Well,” says Mr. Hicken, puzzled and
gratified, “thought she’d be faster.” Ho
keeps up with Jim, his legs wobbling in
the effort. “Mind you,” he gasps to
him, “I had her in single harness.”
“She’s going well,” says Jim.
“Well,” agrees Mr. Hicken admiringly!
“Wee-woa,” says Pat. The slide draws
to a halt. Dolly, with Baldy, stands
quietly.
“Bloody fine mare,” says Pat, forget-
ting his buyer’s manners in his affection
for a good mare.
“Not too bad,” says Mr. Hicken
eagerly. “I told myself that you’d like
it. ‘Pat can look after the fast ones,’ I
said.”
“She might be fast,” says Pat doubt-
fully. “I’ll only give her the slide today,
and perhaps this afternoon the bull-
harrows. She can take the plough to-
morrow.”
“You won’t know till tomorrow, eh?”
says Mr. Hicken with disappointment.
“I’d like to have her for a week,” says
Pat conditionally.
“Oh, yes. Oh, yes,” says Mr. Hicken.
He ruminates. “A week, eh?” He looks
at his neighbor. “Now to tell the truth,
Pat, I was thinking about a couple of
nice young heifers Jim Andrews has over
there. I was thinking if you liked the
mare, then I could get them young
heifers. If my boy was home, he’d say,
‘Keep the mare,’ but what good is it to
me, fast and all that?”
“I’ll tell you what,” says Pat. “I’ve got
a nice line of young Jersey stuff here.
Springers too.”
“Ah,” shys Mr. Hicken, wagging a
finger at his neighbor. “Jerseys, Pat.
Jerseys. It’s the reds I’m after.”
“Blarsted Shorthorns,” says Mr. Reggin.
Mr. Hicken thinks, too, of the money
in his hand, and it is a great enjoyment
for him to feel the money, or to stare at
a cheque. The rarity of occasions when
he is able to fondle money has greatly
increased his liking for the experience.
“Well, if you want to try her for a
week, Pat,” he says reluctantly.
“That mare’s all right,” says Pat sud-
denly.
“You haven’t tried her,” says Mr.
Hicken shrilly. “She might jib. She
mightn’t work. And,” he says, in a last
desperate attempt to convince, “she’s
fast.”
“Fast me bloody old Aunt Maria,”
says Pat. “She’s not fast, Harry. Now
what’s she worth to you?”
“Fast and all?” insists Mr, Hicken.
“I’d have to take something off for that.
I could never charge twenty quid for a
fast mare.”
“Nor for a slow one, neither,” says
Pat. “I’ll give you fifteen, no more.”
“Will you now?” says Mr. Hicken
eagerly, “Well, I never. I never thought
Dolly’d fetch fifteen quid. She’s terrible
fast.”
<‘/"''ET my cheque-book, Jim,” says
Mr. Reggin. “I’ll write a cheque
now for Harry.”
Weakened, Mr. Hicken makes a last
attempt. “Now perhaps you’d better
wait a day or two, eh, Pat?” he suggests,
Mr. Reggin writes out the cheque,
crosses it, and hands it to Mr. Hicken.
Mr, Hicken is not at all loth to take it,
but slight worry shows on his face.
Pat Reggin suddenly roars. “Now
then, Harry, don’t you tell me she’s fast,”
he says with heartiness. “That mare’s
all right.”
To prove it he takes the reins, flicks
them ever so gently, and ch-cks to the
pair, so that they move forward, over
the grass. Pat turns and shouts that he’ll
return the harness in a few days.
“Ah, yes,” says Mr. Hicken mildly,
but more to himself than Pat, so absorbed
he is in his cheque. He gazes absently
at it, recollects where he is, stares after
the pair, and by this time Dolly has
gathered herself into a slight trot. A little
worried, Mr. Hicken gazes at her, clucks,
shakes his head, clucks again, appears set
on telling Pat about the mare being a bit
fast, perhaps, but finally shakes his head
again and walks down the drive to the
cyclone gate, fondling the cheque.


HOW ARE YOUR SUPPLY LINES?
“Sorry . , . can’t supply,” an all-too-familiar phrase these days, signifying
more “making do” with old equipment and possible loss of valuable stock and
crops. But there’s a silver lining for you in the efficient service of the
A.MvL.&F. Merchandise Department.
Despite the present general shortages, A.M.L.&F.’s long-standing business
contacts enable them to obtain essential requirements with much less than the
usual delay. So —ask A.M.L.&F.!
85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England in IS6S.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 17.22
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
1
ms
IP
g*'
BEDEBZEIB®
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
No Investor Can Afford
To Be Without It
ECONOMIC REVIEWS
INVESTMENT ANALYSES
MINING NOTES
Single Copies . . .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription .. .. 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George-street, Sydney, and all States.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Better Woolclassing.
“Murrawong”; The value of
experience in woolclassing is
realised by most woolgrowers.
The larger flockmasters make
every endeavor to secure a good
man, and, haying found him, re-
tain his services for all subse-
quent shearings. The hallmark
of the experienced classer is in
his work. Half a dozen different
classers might prepare a clip for
market in such a' way as to
obtain full market values, and
yet there would be subtle dif-
ferences in the general layout
that would identify the work
with any particular classer.
For years the question of
giving recognition to qualified
classers has been discussed, but
nothing tangible has been done.
Proposals included a mention in
the sales catalogue that the clip
was classed by “so-and-so.” An-
other suggestion was to register
all experienced classers, and each
would have have an identifying
number which could be branded
on the bales of the clip handled
by him.
This suggestion has been taken
up seriously in South Africa.
Every bale of wool classed by a
man of recognised ability will
have branded on one corner the
head of a springbok with a
number underneath. This will
not only add to the prestige
of individual classers but when
the system becomes recognised
overseas it will be a guarantee
that the wool contained in that
bale has been competently classed
and therefore add to the prestige
of the exporting country. Such
a system could be adopted With
advantage to Australia. It would
enhance the prospects of the
classing profession as a whole,
as it would enable individual
classers to build up a reputation
and would give them something
to work for. It would also act
as a check against slipshod work,
as no man would allow his par-
ticular brand to come into dis-
repute. Should any faulty work
be discovered on the show floor,
the classer could be called in by
the broker, and if a continuance
of bad work resulted, the classer
would eventually lose his brand.
The increasing subdivision of
large properties is bound to
affect the standard of prepara-
tion of Australian clips. Even
though smaller properties are
able to get their wool compe-
tently classed, they are not in
a position to cull so heavily and
to breed towards an even flock,
and as a result the classer does
not have the material to work
on to make bulky, even lines.
Each succeeding year sees more
and more wool going into the
star-lots section of the trade at
the expense of the big lots, and
buyers are finding it increasingly
difficult to cope with the number
of lines they have to inspect.
New Zealand has taken steps
to recognise the value of ex-
perienced classing, and recently
a Wool Association was formed
from graduates of Massey Agri-
cultural College. Refresher
courses will be organised, and
members will be kept up to date
with the latest developments of
research and changes in the
trade. Each qualified classer is
being allotted a registration
number which will identify the
clips he handles, and a high
standard of proficiency will be
demanded before these numbers
are granted.
The Australian wool industry
could not fail to benefit by the
adoption of these systems. It
would not only enhance the pro-
fessional reputation of each and
any particular classer, but if a
symbol on the lines of the South
African idea were adopted in
conjunction with the number,
overseas buying interests would
undoubtedly be influenced to the
mutual advantage of the owner
of the wool, the classer and Aus-
tralia generally.
Fertilisers.
“Nedrium”: The current row
between organic-farming enthus-
iasts and State agricultural scien-
tists has brought to the surface
much muddled thinking on fer-
tilisers and soils —mainly from
the former group. This being
so, it is welcome to read
“H.A.L.” (B. 2/2/’49) explain-
ing away the myth that super, is
“artificial.” The wdy some of .
the compost-mad people talks
about it one would imagine that
super, affects the soil like an
application of prussic acid.
Granted that organics such as
well-rotted animal manure are
excellent soil-builders, there are
two questions' that must be
answered about them. (1) Where
are the thousands of tons for use
on large-scale farms to come
from? To produce comparable
results to that gained by using
lewt. of super, per acre on, say,
wheat, about 10 tons of farm-
yard manure is required. Com-
monsense should show that the
use of composted organics is
almost solely limited to vege-
table gardens.
(2) Is organic manure a source
of supply of our deficient soil
minerals? Here the answer is
“No” —as organics only build up
soil structure. They cannot re-
place the missing phosphorus
that is so essential.
The sensible approach seems
to be to wed the use of super,
and other “artificials” to the few
practicable ways of conserving
humus on large farms such as
green manuring and clover-lea
farming. However, more non-
sense has been written and
spoken on this subject than on
anything since the time when
people believed in the theory of
spontaneous generation of mice-
in wheatstacks.
A Problem.
“M.S.”: Two strikingly-con-
trasted extracts from my week’s
reading:
“The damage done to peren-
nial vegetation in a drought is
limited to the area within feed-
ing range of permanent water.
.... When rain came and the
sheep no longer required to
drink, they would leave the
heavily-grazed patches and
scatter through the ungrazed
bush, giving the areas round the
watering-places a rest and a
chance to recover. When the
"I said—is he a union member ?”
100-mile paddocks were later
subdivided into .smaller pad-
docks the bush was subjected for
the first time to continuous graz-
ing ... The depletion of the bush,
closely followed by erosion and
drift, has since proceeded hand-
in-hand with the ‘improve-
ment’ of the country.” —Francis
Ratcliffe.
And here is Joseph Furphy on
the same subject: .... the
introduction of sheep meant the
ultimate extirpation of all trees
and scrubs ; the perpetual tramp-
ling of those sharp little hoofs
would in time caulk the spongy
absorbent surface; so that these
fluffy scrub-clad expanses would
become a country of rich and
spacious plains, variegated by
lakes and forests, and probably
enjoying a fairly equable rain-
fall.”
With no practical knowledge
of soil-erosion I’m yet able to
see the logic of the first argu-
ment, but not of the second.
Any comment?
Telephone Symptoms.
“Ben Acre”; One can often
tell by the behavior of the ’phone
what is wrong with it. If the
ringing handle is hard to turn
there is a short-circuit. To find
if this is in the house, take out
a fuse and try the handle again.
If it is still heavy, look at your
inside wiring.
A dead silence in the receiver
indicates an incomplete circuit,
a broken wire or bad connection.
This might be found by short-
circuiting the wiring in different
places, one place at a time, and
listening. A complete or short-
circuit gives a slight hum.
The sudden breaking-off and
coming-on of the ’phone can be
caused by either of these
faults. Short-circuiting, or the
tangling of the line with a neigh-
boring line or fence, will cause
static noises. A dead silence
during the break, or if the
’phone can be brought on by a
turn of the handle, indicates a
faulty connection.
Galvanised-wire wound to-
gether, even exposed to the
weather, makes a satisfactory
connection; but all connections
with copper should be soldered
if not covered.
Rapid Egg-testing.
“Ho-No”: A swift method of
testing incubating eggs is to
use a focusing torch on them in
a darkened room without re-
moving them from the tray.
A little practice is required,
but patience is amply rewarded,
as it not only saves time, but re-
duces the risk of chilling the
eggs in cold weather.
My dad was a poultryman,
and used to skim the trays with
a torch in one hand and blue
pencil in the other, marking re-
jects, which later were taken out.
In districts served by elec-
tricity any ingenious poultry-
farmer could make a contraption
which would light the egg-trays
from below, thus enabling the
rejects to be seen instantly.
Diffused light, from a pearl
lamp covered by a ground glass
would give good results.
Growing the Custard-apple.
“Sarina”: In the warmer parts
of Australia the custard-apple
is one of the easiest fruits to
grow. The trees can be grown in
rows to serve as breakwinds or
in groups for shade.
They are deciduous and re-
quire a good summer rainfall.
If they don’t get plenty of mois-
ture while the fruits are forming
the fruits are likely to dry and
fall off, as is the case with pas-
sionfruit.
We have custard-apples grow-
ing on coastal hills in Central
Queensland, above frost, and
with an estimated rainfall of
between 60in. and 70in. The
trees show a readiness to grow
wild on one-time scrub and
forest land, which shows how
hardy they are.
They do best on sloping
ground. The small variety bears
the heavier, but the Bullock’s
Heart variety (from Central
America) is worth having. Since
they become leafless in winter
they are suitable for breakwinds
only in places subject to
summer blows. <v
Seedlings should be raised in
tins with the sides cut down, and
transplanted with the least knock-
ing qbout. The fruit can be
sold readily in provincial towns.
I don’t know how it goes at city
markets, but local fruiterers have
been paying well for it here.
The fruit is picked when fully-
matured but still hard and green.
It soon ripens with keeping.
The Light Sussex.
“K.T.”; For all-round quality
Light Sussex is probably the
premier table
fowl. If good
foundation stock
is secured excel-
lent results should
be obtained. For
exhi bit i o n we
naturally look for
type and mark-
ings, etc., but for
table the first es-
sential is size and health.
It is possible to get May- and
June-hatched cockerels advanced
sufficiently to average 311 b. when
sold at 15 weeks. In addition,
all pullets which are not good
enough to keep or breed from
can be marketed at good prices.
Shanks and skin should be white.
(The standard for exhibition
[calls for flesh color or white, but
white is preferred.) The hens lay
brown-shelled eggs. It is said
that to breed for heavy laying
would impair the table qualities
to a certain degree. The mark-
ings of the Light Sussex are iden-
tical with Light Brahma, Colum-
bian Plymouth Rock and Colum-
bian Wyandotte. Other varieties
of Sussex are Red, White and
Speckled, The Light variety is
by far the most popular.
Milk for Pigs.
“M.”: Pigs under four months
respond better than older ones
to a milk diet, and their require-
ments should be met first. With
grain and other foods, half a
gallon of skim-milk a day for
each pig is ample. As a balance
for a grain diet, meatmeal can
be used as a substitute for milk ;
|lb. of it will replace igal. of
milk and is sufficient to balance


>jTrT j
scwfn vi !
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and H Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
■a?
<XJM
Vm.
&*W*W
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System,
Est. 1927.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent)
which makes the Hygeia Dissolfenator
bo efficient.
Intending purchasers are fftvited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona tides of
the HygMa Dissolvenator, as well as the
value 3nd scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 D'issol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Yic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
•South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnemey &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Pdrth.
Tasmania: Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: C. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
DOGS NEED CARE
To keep your dog healthy and fit you
should watch for danger signs that show
when he is out of sorts and jieeds atten-
tion. If his coat is „dull, loose or ragged
if his nose is warm and he is moody,
listless or off his food, he is probably
suffering from digestive disorders that pro-
duce fhfese symptoms. Start giving him
Barko Condition Powders immediately.
BARKO
CONDITION t POWD E RS
1/6 PER BOX AT ALL CHEMISTS
#ll
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A..Rose & CotPty.Ltd.Klng St. Sydney
Missing Friends.
TO BENJAMIN RONALD WILLET for-
merly of 33 McPherson Street Moonee
Ponds and Caroline Street Clifton Hill in
the State of Victoria but now of parts
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your
wife AUDREY MAY WILLET formerly
of Caroline Street Clifton Hill but now
of Frankston in the State of Victoria
Married Woman has instituted proceed-
ings against you for Divorce on the
Grounds of Desertion during three years
and upwards • Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office Law
Courts William Street Melbourne in the
said State on or before the 24th day of
March 1949 the said suit will proceed in
your absence and a Decree Nisi for Dis-
solution of Marriage may be granted If
ySu intend to defend this suit you must
file an answer in the said office on or
before the 4th day of April 1949. —JOHN
WILLIAM GALBALLY, 118 Queen Street,
Melbourne, in the said State, Solicitor
for the Petitioner.
WALTER STEPHEN CULMER.
IP WALTER STEPHEN CULMER,
brother of the late Frederick James
Culmer, of Johannesburg, South Africa,
will communicate with THE JOHANNES-
BURG BOARD OF EXECUTORS AND
TRUST COMPANY LIMITED, 102 Com-
missioner Street, Johannesburg, Transvaal,
South Africa, he will hear of something
to his advantage. Any person having
knowledge of the said Walter Stephen
Culmer is requested to communicate with
the above company.
WILLIAM ARTHUR LEO PERRIER (also
known as LEO CARRI), husband of
Theresa Elizabeth Perrier, late of Auck-
land, or anyone knowing his whereabouts,
please communicate with the DISTRICT
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Auckland, New Zea-
ē
VAUXHALL
Australia*s favourite
British car
presents 2 brilliant newcomers
■>: y.
■
rr---
Vi
P
a
1 ~~1 1M
m
Ul'- - ■
w
h
6o
Vauxßall VBLOX powered to cruise
P
at
yt
m
h.p
is*
ii
■k
,-1 !.
|x N \ tfM&j ls\.\^
Study this utterly new Vauxhall Velox, designed
for long-range travel by the makers of Australia's
favourite British car. (Vauxhall sales in Australia
have far exceeded every other British make for 14
years !) With 6 cyls. and 18 h.p., Velox is a true top-
gear car, cruises at 60 miles an hour, has 75
m.p.h. in reserve, and saves petrol all the
time. Driven at 30 miles an hour it averages
28 miles to the gallon. Its purchase price
will save you money. It is England’s
answer to Australia’s greatest travel need.
Powered for slow-revving speed. Sprung for
riding over bush track or highway.
Built for immense mileages, with wonderful coast-
to-coast Service established by Vauxhall’s long
sales leadership! Priced for moderate incomes.
Gloriously restyled, improved
tz h.p. 4cyl. Vauxhall WY VERN
For motorists who like less speed and even
greater economy than Velox provides, comes a
new, restyled, improved 12 h.p. 4-cyl. Vauxhall
Wyvern. It purrs at 50 m.p.h., has 60 to 65
m.p.h. in reserve, gives 35 miles to the gallon at
30 m.p.h. Wyvern has always driven, handled
and performed like a big car. Now its per-
formance and roadability are“bigger ” than ever.
See us for all details of the new models. Study
all Vauxhall’s superiorities—luxurious new
English and Australian bodies with safety glass
in all windows —famous overhead valve engines
—special synchro-mesh, non-clash gears—
independent front wheel suspension—spring
spoke steering wheel gear change on
steering column.
m
CHOICE OF BODIES Th " "~ —~ i—
*•“"*«. L “<* «■»
models are available as En„l <u u * d conv enience. Beth
built Turret-tnn n ! En gbsh-built saloons * 7. h
p hh d «achable safety-gI b a y ss H s y den .* ’ ' 3nd Caleche^oLers'
h “ ,;
Discuss with us the G.M.A.C.
confidential payment plan and the made-to-match
“Air Chief ” Car Radio.
General Motors-Holden’s Ltd.
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
Brisbane • Sydney . Melbourne • Adelaide - Per
Sold and Serviced by Vauxhall Dealers throughout Australia vtln
all the grain a pig can eat from
weaning to bacon size. t
Greens will be needed, and
these can be supplied as cut
green food, pasture or green hay
or chaff. To complete the diet
provide loz. daily for each pig
of a mixture of four parts ,of
ground limestone and lib. of
salt. Sows suckling litters will
need 2oz. daily.
Blight in Cattle.
“Demeter”; It causes consid-
erable economic loss every year.
The cause *is not determined, but
it is suspected . that a germ
(Rickettsia) similar to that caus-
ing “pink eye” in sheep is the
culprit. Main incidence of the
disease follows fly-waves in
spring and autumn, and it is sus-
pected that flies transmit the
disease from beast to beast. Re-
covery usually follows, but many
cases of blindness through
opacity or glaucoma are caused.
Treatment in the early stages,
showing only a red swollen lid
and eye discharge, is* simple and
satisfactory. Solutions of zinc
sulphate (4 per cent.) or blue-
stone (2 per cent.) are effective.
Once the eye is ffcc'ed treat-
ment is more diffL and either
sulphanilamide (10 per ' at.) in
cod-liver oil, or tinct. metaphen
(one in 2500), should be used
twice daily.
Very good prevention has been
obtained by spraying every fort-
night with 2 per cent. D.D.T. to
eradicate flies.
The Apple-moth.
“M.”; It is making a mass
appearance in many Victorian
apple and pear orchards.
Although mainly a surface
feeder, its caterpillar can pene-
trate fruit, and in either case the
fruit is rendered unsaleable.
Vic. Department of Agriculture
points out that, before D.D.T.,
the pest was easily controlled by
the lead arsenate in codlin-moth
sprays. But with D.D.T. now
the main spray for codlin, and
achieving up to 98 p.c. kill, the
apple-moth has made big head-
way. D.D.T. will kill it, but its
peak periods of infestation do
not necessarily coincide with
codlin-moth invasions, and the
insects often avoid destruction
by attacking the fruit after the
D.D.T, has disintegrated. To
make sure of both codlin -anc
apple-moth (it’s a rust-colored
insect known as the light-browr
apple-moth) use half-strength
lead-arsenate in all sprays, plus
.05 p.c. D.D.T. .
Hints for the Farm.
“Bill C”; Crepe myrtle
(Christmas-tree) benefits from
pruning. With neglect the
shrubs grow very tall but don’t
flower well. The pink and
purple types are superior to the
red in flowering. They are not
easily propagated by cuttings,
but the suckers from the main
roots make up for this. Watch
out for mistletoe in areas where
that pest grows; it oftem infests
crepe myrtles.
“Myrrhee”: Citrus mottle-
leaf (characterised by a yellow-
ing of the leaves in patches) is
due to inability of the tree in
certain soils to absorb sufficient
zinc for its normal growth and
health. Spray with 2oz. of zinc
sulphate and loz. of hydrated
lime in 4gal. of water. Where
larger quantities are needed mix
31b. of zinc sulphate and
of hydrated lime in lOOgal. of
water.
“W- Court”: A paste consist-
ing of graphite and methylated
spirits is splendid for polishing
stoves. The mixture should be
used only when the fire is out
lest the fumes cause an explo-
sion.
“Will C.”: Before heavy rains
start take measures against
erosion at gully crossings. Often
a stream takes a drop to a lower
level after passing a crossing,
and unless fortified by logs and
rocks the bank is gradually cut
down and a flood is likely to
ruin the crossing. The logs must
go right across the stream to be
effective, and have stakes and
posts driven into banks and
stream-bed at intervals to hold
them there. Once such a dam is
formed, silt will tend to add to
the strength of it and prevent
water getting under it.
“Wilco”: Don’t delay repair-
ing a faulty implement or
vehicle. If, for instance, a car
tyre loses air quickly, get the
tube out at once and repair the
hole. It will probably save you
a blowout and a ruined tube. A
friend ignored a minor fault in
an expensive radio-set. When
the set finally refused to work it
post him abdht £l2 for repairs,
and he was told that the original
trouble could have been put
right for £1 or so.
“Plane Creek”: During wet
weather tackle lantana bushes,
poison-peach and tree-suckers on
partly-cleared grazing land,
Grubbing is the only way to settle
the pests permanently ; cutting-
back means twice as many
shoots the next year, Lantana
bushes, in particular, are easily
uprooted from damp soil, and
the operator will be pleased at
the progress he can make in a
few hours.
“K.T.”: All poultry. needs
green feed—but it must be
young and succulent. Lucerne is
the best, but for variety there
are Berseem clover, barley, kale,
red clover, Bokara and sweet
clover, which can all be sown in
March. Every poultryman
should have a patch of greens,
Another c'ouple are lettuce and
silver-beet. Both are good, but
lettuce may be too expensive for
though I daresay small
holders show-fanciers often
feed it. Too much green feed
eaten at the one time can cause
drop troubles because of the
difficulty in digestion, but this is
mostly when the greens are of
poor quality.
“Myrrhee”: Black - point,
which has appeared in Vic-
torian wheat this year after a
long absence, is best combated
before sowing by thoroughly
pickling the seed with an organic
mercury pickling powder. This
destroys the moulds or fungi ad-
hering to the grain and at the
same time gives effective con-
trol of ball-smut; but it won’t
prevent infection by “footrot
already in the soil. For this is
recommended clean, well-worked
fallows and adequate manuring,
“Bill C.”: Fowls require
green-feed daily, but not to the
same extent as ducks and geese,
which are soon in trouble with-
out it. Green-feed for ducklings
and goslings should be well
chopped and mixed with the
other feed. Goslings Will devour
twice as much green-feed as
ducklings of the same age. Geese
cannot be reared to good ad-
vantage without plenty of green
pasture and ponds of water,
“Myrr”: Vegetable crops of
the one family or type grown in
the same ground year after year
tend to unbalance soil-plant
foods and encourage disease,
You wouldn’t, for example, fol-
low carrots with parsnips, cab-
bage with cauliflowers, onions
with leeks or tomatoes with pota-
toes. The ideal sequence is (1)
leaf crops, tomatoes and vine
vegetables, using stable manure
or compost; (2) root crops, using
superphosphate, and (3) legumes,
using super, only ; dig-in plants
when the pod growth is ex-
hausted. Repeat sequence in
that order.


Yonr choice !■ CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
*weet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
StXAht, XJO~C&h/
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASE
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. Thai's why a Globlte
costs less in the long run.
Made by
FORD SHEHINGTON LTD.
THEY CALL HIM
8 «f
99
s' s ®g| £X.
l '
-.i A ” f
(SSs
. . . but here's the real secret
of his success!
He is typical of thousands of men
who are said to have "got on in the
world.” His pleasant home is com-
fortably furnished, fitted with good,
modern equipment . . . his children
are receiving a thorough education
. . . his Life Assurance policies are
ample to meet any emergency . . . his
future is clear, settled, secure. He has
everything that the average man
would like to have—so they call him
"Lucky.”
But luck has had nothing to do with
his success. He has reached the
position he holds to-day through
careful planning, sensible living and
regular saving.
SAVING—
THAT'S THE REAL SECRET
There’s nothing difficult about saving
once you put your mind to it. With
only the slightest effort you can set
aside a definite amount from your
pay every week. Even small sums,
saved regularly in this way, steadily
grow to substantial funds. Carefully
invested, they earn interest which
swells the total.. . . Much sooner than
you imagine, you will find yourself
the possessor of a sum of money
which, properly used and constantly
increased by further regular saving,
can set you on the road to security.
These days, saving is more necessary
even than usual. Because of Aus-
tralia’s present production difficulties
many goods are scarce, prices are
often too high and the temptation to
spend should be resisted. Later, of
course, production troubles will be
overcome and there’ll be plenty of
everything for everybody. While you
wait for the good times ahead, save
all you can. Then you’ll have ample
funds to get full benefit from the
improved conditions.
FOR THE THINGS
YOU WANT
SAVE THIS WAY
1. Buy only what you really need.
Avoid luxuries. Get full value.
2. Buy for cash always.
3. Settle your debts then pay
your way.
4. Join a National Savings Group.
5. Build up your Savings Bank
Account.
6. Invest in Commonwealth Loans.
7. Increase your life assurance.
N 527.113.29
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACK RICHMOND NAPIER late of
18 Carrington Avenue, Strathfleld. —TAKE
NOTICE that EILEEN NAPIER has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3999 of 1948
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards* If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Regis-
try Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 23rd May 1949 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. FRANK W. LEE, FALKING-
HAM & HOURIGAN, Solicitors, 133 Pitt
Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) <L DOUGHAN,
Acting Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JACK FLETCHER late of Dulwich
HiII.—TAKE NOTICE that JACK DES-
MOND KENNEDY has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3924 of 1947 on the ground
that you have committed adultery with
GLADYS MURIEL KENNEDY If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 23rd
May 1949 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from LEWIS C.
ABIGAIL, Solicitor, 56 Hunter Street,
Sydney.—(n.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting
Registrar in Divorce.
HOW THEY PICK WINNERS
By “COL M.”
There were times on the Flat
at Randwick racecourse when
remarks in praise of the newly-
installed photo.-finish camera
would be about as safe as frank
discourse on the merits of the
teams at a Melbourne football
game. In the opinion of many
racegoers “the camera” was a
biased judge whose verdicts
favored the animal with sense
enough to finish down the out-
side. As yet attempts to prove
this point have failed. The
camera retains the twinkle in its
lens and the superior feeling
of a piece of scientific apparatus
which must, on paper, have
better vision than any human
eye.
The inventors 6f the photo.-
finish camera had to accept the
sometimes-doubtful fact that the
racehorse is an extremely swift
fellow, capable of getting him-
self, from his nose to the tip of
his tail, past a given point in
one-fifth of a second.
■ This automatically ruled out
the use of any form of “still”
camera, for although its shutter
could be scientifically tripped as
the winning horse broke the
finishing-line, what would show
up in the photograph as the
second and third horses could
very easily have changed their
positions by the time they
finished the race.
On the same grounds the
movie-camera was disqualified,
as its job is merely one of tak-
ing a series of “stills,” and in
the blind-spot between these
photographs a galloping race-
horse can move forward almost
a foot. If one of these blind-
spots happened to occur just as
an apparent “dead-heat” crossed
the line, any verdict derived from
the movie would be open to sus-
picion.
With the only two species of
cameras in existence useless for
the job of picking winners, some-
thing entirely new was needed,
and the present photo.-finish
tackle was evolved.
Its principle may be grasped
by holding up two fingers closed
together in front of. your favored
eye, and imagining the words in
a line of type are a string of
horses finishing a race, squint
through the slit at the page, and
move the page from right to left
if you live in Sydney, or vice
versa if in Melbourne.
The photo.-finish camera may
be a little more technical, but
basically it is the same ; it has a
slit to look through, an open
lens, and a strip of film which
moves across its back at approxi-
mately the same speed as the
horses are travelling. It records
the same swift panorama of
horses that would thunder past
the eye of a person peering
through a crack in a fence
directly opposite the finishing-
post.
When the leading horse is
about 20 yards from the post,
the camera-operator starts his
mechanism. The film spins, for
a while registering nothing, but
then —imagining things slowed,
down tremendously—it picks up
the nose of the winning horse
as he pokes it across the line.
As the rest of his body follows,
so is it recorded. And as the
second horse moves his body
past the Camera, so is he re-
corded ; so are they all —all
honorable horses.
The photograph produced for
the judge shows not where each
horse happened to be when the
winner passed the line, but the
exact place of each horse in the
field at the moment he finished
the race. On the other side of
the track from the camera is a
narrow vertical mirror, which
gives the camera, by reflection,
a second panorama of what it
would be seeing if operating
over there.
In the official race-book,
opposite one of those ruled
pages where the printers fondly
suppose that punters calculate
their winnings, there is an ex-
planation of the camera which
states that its exact alignment
with the finishing-post is fre-
quently examined by qualified
surveyors. Combine this with
the use of the cross-checking
mirror and it seems to destroy
any argument that the camera
favors the horse on the outside.
That yarn could possibly
spring from the fact that the
horse on the rails is usually tir-
ing, whereas the one that has
been pulled to the outside to pass
him must, if it catches him at
all, be travelling at a faster rate
—quite fast enough on occasions
to thrust his chin out at the
critical moment and be right-
fully judged the winner.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS, No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submittedj and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany,
US. should be addressed to the Editor.
F.8.J.: You tell the old fellow’s
story as if you were writing it for
the Dictionary of National Biography.
K.A,: Your little ray of sunshine
wasn’t strong enough to warm our
story-reader’s heart... .R.F.: Buy
yourself a dictionary and a new type-
writer ribbon; also, enclose stamps
if you want MSS. returned
C W. 8.: A rambling and pointless
effort W.P.: What the oldest* in-
habitant told the newchum will not
be relayed to our readers.. . .T.M.:
Hardly up to the mark F.M.8.:
Unnecessarily complicated. With
fewer characters you’d do better
work Bellerive: Those were the
days!:—
...'.A.R.: “And ever and anon
he heaved a sigh.'” Well, ever and
anon we heave a brick, and we hove
one just then... .T.S.: If we grati-
fied all the old pioneers and so on
who say it would soothe their declin-
ing years to see their reminiscences
published, you would probably be
the first to say the paper wasn’t
worth buying... .E.W.: “Swagman’s
Soliloquy” over his deceased canine
is a very ordinary wail B.B.: You
have a little descriptive power, and
that is all M.R.W.; Your best
plan is to study what does appear in
The Bulletin F.E.D.: Not in-
terested in the fact that men in that
part of the world still wear night-
shirts J.M.J.: Send in your story
with a stamp. If it’s goipd it will
be paid for; if it’s bad it will be
returned... .P.M.: A barren record
of dry facts... .R.J.: Don’t write as
if you were trying to do the Lord’s
Prayer on a threepenny-piece. You
have no idea what a misery your
copy is to read... .8.D.: No, you
haven’t improved it. You haven t
the art of leaving out the unessential.
.., ,K.R.: Commenced to lick it into
shape, but found the task too tough.
.... V.S.: Yours is a “master hand,”
you modestly say. Well, we find it a
“’prentice hand,” and a pretty dull
’prentice at that.. .'.R.K.D.: You 11
send us some more! For heavens
sake don’t—if they’re according to
sample G.H.: A long, long way
from publication levql... .R.C.C.:
The local butcher drank out of a
jam-tin at the hospital ball. Ten pa'ges!
It would be cheaper for us to buy the
butcher a beer-glass... .A.L.: Con-
ventionally conceived and treated....
A.M.D.: Your shearing-shed story is
mostly a catalogue of names....
C. 0.8.; Too turgid and bombastic.
.LJ.: Much too weakened with
detail.’ Might pass if you can get
it in a quarter of the space P. 8.:
“Flash Harry” is in the w.p.b.
A.Mc.D.: “The Homeless Dog re-
turns home... .C.K.L.: A yener-
able Bulletin plot S.A.C.:
“Murder Will Out,” and out
it went T.T.: “Can I send
you a story a month?” Unfor-
tunately, you probably can
C.L.W.: Story ending at the pearly
gates was refused admittance....
FJ.A.: That yam has been doing
the rounds for years T.L.F.: So
you “dabble in short stories.” We
don’t E.M.S.: “The Black Sheep”
has been pretty well shorn by other
writers S.N.: Get more life into
your characters A.T.T.; Try it on
the local paper 8.E.: It seems to
begin and end nowhere... .W.N :
We took a real bullocky into our
special asbestos-lined room, read him
your story about a bullocky and left
him to it T.R.: Can’t find a stall
for your faithful horse... .A.R.:
Alter the locale to Chicago and you
may be able to sell it in the U.S.A.
R.P.C.; It is only on rare occa-
sions that Australian Aborigines can
be observed “leaping from crag to
crag with their effortless, savage grace.”
T.J.W.: No market here for
snippety topical articles on foreign
lands... .GJ.: An astonishing set of
convenient coincidences threaded to-
gether with purple patches A.L.G.:
A theme, but you treat it too despair-
ingly J.H.: If that’s what tram-
travelling does for you, take a bus.
S.L.P.: If all the writers who
write about prospectors dying of
thirst were turned loose in Central
Australia without water-bags it would
be a bad thing for the country but a
great relief to us... .M.N.M.: It
might be an idea to write legibly....
R.C.: Please don’t bring that orphan
and her kitten in here again
J.McK.: It was with deepest regret
that we gently shoved your “brain-
child” out of the window C.M.:
We fled when the ab'o. stockman
said “dat dere ribber”... .A.F.L.:
Stand within a safe distance of the
exit and read it at the next meeting
of your literary society.
RECOLLECTIONS OF MY YOUTH.
A Ride in a Hansom Cab.
Out I went in a Hansom Oab
On a journey to Albert Park.
Back again to the city
And home before ’twas dark.
Out I went in a Hansom Cab
And imagined myself a swell
Seated back with folded arms
Which I remember well.
A outing’s very needful,
A life would be very drab.
Gladly 1 paid the driver
For a rid'e in his Hansom Cab.


far iii
A
W.
3
zz-
Australia-England by AIR MAIL
Post your letters AIR MAIL for speed and con-
venience. They leave without delay and reach
your addressee within a matter of days.
Four air mail services leave Australia weekly for the United
Kingdom. You can send an “Airletter” for only 7d.—
and ordinary letters are flown by air mail for 1/6 each
half ounce. Q.E.A. and 8.0.A.C. are privileged to serve
Australia as the official Royal Air Mail carriers be-
tween Australia and the United Kingdom.
Kl 7
flt-A BO AC
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
.. - -jv. ?k/ - >-i:
4 *
*SS
I M
M
000 W
’’ .
THE BLADE THAT IS
STRENGTHENED BY A
SHOULDER BEHIND
EACH EDGE
<S>
<s>
<9®
o
vS'
SSs
BLCE
fr
A
Gillette
BLADES
10 BLADES FOR 3'- 5 BLADES FOR VO
The sharpest edge in the world!
13/168
SMOKE-OH!
PIMMS No. I CUP
The Drink
for wise men
“The booming of native tom-toms
in the heart of Darkest Africa may
soon give way to the wail of saxo-
phones.”—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Bongo Bongo Bongo, they’ll
all want to leave the Congo,
4* 4* 4*
‘.‘Rabbits sleep in naps.”
— “World’s News.”
Only the baby ones, surely.
“Englishmen are up to their spring
pastime of listening for the
cuckoo.”— Sydney “Sunday Sun.
Well be doing the same here
when Chifley sends out his elec-
tioneering team.
“The average housewife spends 25
hours each year and walks four miles
to make one bed.”
— “World’s News.
No wonder she so often lies
down on the job.
•b *** * r
“Think of glamorous gowns, for
during the dancing season elegance
can be given full reign.”
— Woman’s paper.
So aim to be queen of th®
ballroom.
•J* . 4*
“Would-be film actors of the
future will have to pass an intelli-
gence test.” —Sydney “D.T.”
They won’t be able to screen
their mental deficiencies.
4* 4* 4*
“Much of the unhappiness of mar-
ried life can be traced to the universal
use of make-up.” —“New Idea.”
Husbands eventually wake
up to what their wives are really
like.
•I* 4*
Immigration Minister Calwell
hopes to be responsible for more
blackouts than the Sydney
County Council.
“Six small, 12-ounce bottles of
beer or six ounces of whisky made
the average American drunk.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.’’
It all sounds like moonshine.
Jekyll and Hyde.
“Evatt has never acquired that
tough political hide which insulates
most politicians against the personal
attacks which so easily pierce a sen-
sitive political skin.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
To combat such offensive irrita-
tion
The man whose epidermis
can’t abide
The barbs of scorn attempts
some vindication
While he whom Nature clothed
with thicker hide
Remains composed, thanks to his
insulation.
But how explain the case of one
whose tender
And gentle heart in anguish
now recoils
If anyone neglects to praise his
splendor,
And yet who, when Red in-
spiration foils
His work, feels not the anguish
of surrender?
Perhaps he’s hurt by Opposition
taunting
Because his insulation’s rather
thin
In spots, whereas the Comrades’
open vaunting
Of their controlling force can’t
hurt a skin
Made callous locally by world-
wide jaunting.
D.H.E.
Outclassed.
I met him near the Leger ring,
A hollow-visaged shade
Of one whp’d once been un-
crowned king
Of his pernicious trade.
He paused. We watched the
books finesse
And punters half-points chase.
(Six nags were four-to-one or
less
With twenty in the race.)
“By cripes! They executed me/”
His eyes with anger shone.
But ere I’d bowed in sympathy
Ned Kelly’s shade had gone.
P.O.M.C.
Over the Odds!
“During the recent Siamese rebel-
lion fighting occurred between the
Army and a naval unit under Vice-
Admiral Luang Sangwon Suvenichib,
a former Police Chief, alongside the
Royal Bangkok Sporting Club’s golf
links, on which Europeans continued
calmly to play. Later, the Govern-
ment described the fighting as ‘a
misunderstanding.’ ”
The fighting in the latest
Palace rebellion, the seventeenth
in a fortnight, had been particu-
larly bitter and savage.
It started when a naval unit
under Grand Admiral Tup Goo,
“This is Joe, darling. He’s a dirt-track rider.”
who commands the front half
of Siam’s submarine, poked their
tongues out brutally at a passing
Air Force group commanded by
Air Chief-Marshal Piebald Sodd,
who, the week before, had been
a railway fettler.
Deeply angered at this mortal
insult to the junior service’s in-
tegrity, the Air Force’s most
brilliant propeller-winder, Kus
Yu Tu, rushed at a naval
capstan-winder and belted him
in the grummet with a six-inch
length of bamboo. The naval
man shrieked for a capstan to
hurl at his attacker, but as the
Admiral had commandeered the
cigarette issue of the entire
ship’s company, nobody could
oblige.
The incident led to awful
carnage. The naval party
dragged up the breech-block of
a 3in. gun and pointed it at the
Air Force unit, who, in turn,
brought up a tripod and went
through the motions of attach-
ing a machine-gun to it. What
would have happened had both
guns been put on their attach-
ments is too frightful to con-
template.
The casualties began to mount
when the naval party, with a
string of code-flags, tripped up
a number of the airmen, several
of whom turned quite pale with
the shock, while some actually
suffered gravel-rash and were
rushed to casualty-clearing-sta-
tions.
The battle became so fierce it
was obvious they would soon
have to call a truce while they
had morning-tea. As the Air
Force unit were adopting
echelon formation to advance
against the Navy wielding their
deadly kapok-filled socks, there
came the tut-tut-tut of a distant
machine-gun. Fifteen seconds
after the first tui the two services
had joined in the unofficial
national sprint championship.
It was won by Grand-Admiral
Goo, with Air Chief-Marshal
Sodd a nose away second.
At the moment the machine-
gun opened up the Hon. Reggie
Thwacker was just commencing
the downward swing of his drive
off the third tee. Correctly he
kept his head down until he had
completed his follow-through,
but incredulity spread over his
face as he saw his ball still sitting
on the tee.
“Well, I’m positively dashed! ”
he exclaimed. “What I mean
to say, I missed the bally pill
altogether!”
“Not to be wondered at ex-
actly, old horse,” drawled
Basil, his fellow-golfer, “see-
ing you tried to propel the jolly
old ball without the traditional
lump on the end of your club.
Observe!”—and he pointed to
t p e head c f the driver lying
near by. “Didn’t you hear the
p i ne of the m.g.-bullet? Look!
There , s the ii[. manne red bounder
now holding what Kipling called
the ‘reeking tube.’”
The Hon. Reggie ignored for
the nonce 'the machine-gunner
to mourn over his club. “It was
a beautiful genuine persimmon
too >♦ “j
this isn’t cricket, you know. I
mean, jolly fellows can’t be
allowed to go around potting
the ends off fellow’s clubs,
Dash it, they wouldn’t allow a
thing like that at St. Andrew’s,
you know. Anything in the
local rules abopt heads being
shot off clubs in the middle of
a stroke, Basil? After all, I
don’t see why it should cost me
a stroke. But first let us have
a' powwow with this blighter
with the m.g. There’s the fellow
over there now.”
When they caught up with the
culprit the Hon. Reggie was as
close to annoyance as noblesse
oblige would permit. “1 say,
fellow,” he barked. “What do
you mean by walking across that
green just now without rubber
heels? How the devil do you ex-
pect us to sink our putts? And,
by the way—mind where you’re
firing in future. You shot the
head off my number-two driver.
I’ll have to use my number-one
now, and there’s not enough loft
with it. My pater’s rather a
noise in the F.O. —I’ll get him
to drop a stiff note to Bangkok
if you fire it again. Now, get
to the devil with your gun b'efore
I give you a kick in the beastly
pants for mucking up our game.
Dammit, you chappies haven’t
even the decency to replace the
divots caused by your bullets.
Vamoose, or I’ll use an explo-
der shot on you!”
As the Siamese threw down
his m.g. and ran, the Hon.
Reggie looked down at it. ; “I
thought so. One of ours. Over-
seas trade drive and all that,
what? Dashed odd set-up.
Mad dogs of Englishmen doing
eighteen holes when it’s a hun-
dred and eighteen in the shade
and being potted at by revo-
lutionaries using our guns.
Dashed odd!” ’
As they turned to go back to
the third tee a figure in a uni-
form almost as magnificent as
a picture-show commissionaire’s
approached, attended by two
orderlies.
“I am Field-Marshal Phut,” he
began pompously. “By playing
here you are holding up a pri-
vate war between the Army and
the other services. I didn’t mind
you kicking that other fellow out
—he was only a freelance ban-
dit whom the Army refuses to
recognise, I”
“Well, I’m positively dashed! ”
broke in Basil. “Do you know
who he is, Reggie? He’s Gon
Phut, the ‘boots’ at our pub,
you know.”
The Hon. Reggie gazed criti-
cally at the C.-in-C,
“The deuce it is!” he ex-
claimed. This time he was
really angry. “Take your rotten
Army to hell and get off our
links,” he said. “And see you
have my tan brogues ready for
me when I get back. Now run
away —we’ve had enough inter-
ruptions to our game!”
BO.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Radio Rediffusion
Allowing that radio rediffusion broad-
casting were an acceptable innovation,
Mr. Chifley’s “keen interest” is still 20
years before its time, the plain fact being
that Australia doesn’t possess a telephone
system fit for the purpose, and there is
no prospect of developing one.
Rediffusion broadcasting, whereby pro-
grammes are transmitted over telephone
lines to subscribers’ homes, is said to pro-
vide, as a prime advantage, complete
eradication of static. This is false. On
the average telephone a statistical survey
over any 24-hour period would show
evidence of up to 15 per cent, interfer-
ence in the form of cross-talk, unidenti-
fiable static crashes, inductive hum, weak
reception or complete open circuit.
In many country districts, especially
those served by single-wire earth-return
systems (outdated 40 years but still
abundantly used), telephonic communica-
tion is completely out of the question for
days at a time during wet weather or
stormy conditions. During rain, when
reception by present methods of radio
communication would normally be at its
best, Mr. Chifley’s “wired-wireless” will
cease to function.
These problems of interference could
be partly solved only by the installation
of special lines completely independent of
normal telephonic channels, but the cost
would be tremendous and it would still
be impossible to provide 100 per cent,
shielding from inductive effects of high-
tension powerlines.
Secondly, the scheme claims negligible
maintenance costs. This aspect concerns
only the P.M.G., naturally interested to
run the scheme at a large profit-margin.
However small the maintenance costs,
the subscriber would be at no advantage.
His “weekly or monthly rental” would
quickly overtake the cost of a normal re-
ceiver. His pride of ownership would be
gone; he would have no portability and
he would be restricted to fewer pro-
grammes, since the system provides for
fixed operation in one room, despite multi-
channel cables which would have to be
extended with duplicated switches, at
extra cost, in each room in which it was
desired to select a programme.
Hence, with the possibility of limited
use on suburban lines (where the P.M.G.
could be expected to exploit the system
for greater profits per line-length), and a
complete rule-out on country lines, we
have a system lacking full coast-to-coast
coverage. The present system of broad-
casting is quite adequate, and expenditure
on rediffusion cannot be justified. It is
a deliberately restrictive system wide open
to the full effect of socialistic abuses.
Non-socialist radio-stations could be ex-
cluded by extortionate charges. Listen-
ing scope (including overseas broadcasts)
would be restricted according to inexpert
decree, and a system 20 times less efficient
would be provided for at least 20 times
the cost. Entailing as it does the elimina-
tion of radio-receivers (admitted as a sup-
posed advantage!) we are about to em-
bark on a process of advancement over a
period of 10 or 15 years to reach the
stage where the present broadcasting
system began.— Luke (N.S.W,).
If the Senate Be Hostile
In the leading article “Standing from
Under” (B. 9/2 / ’49), you quote Mr. Cal-
well as saying: —-
At the elections this year even if “Labor”-
were to lose in the Lower House it must
have a majority of 33 to 27 in the Senate
even if it lost every possible vote. That
means the Opposition will not be able to
. repeal any Acts such as the Bank Act,
social services, or change taxation incid-
ence If “Labor” is elected this year it
will be in till about 1960.
I think it is obvious that what Mr.
Calwell meant was that under the P.R.
system of voting Labor jean for certain
count on gaining three out of every seven
Senate seats, giving Labor, with its 15
sitting members, a total of 33 to 27. You
then say; “Well, that is plain enough.
If the Australian people want socialisation
of everything, and another 10 years of
inflation, ‘organised scarcity,’ soaring
prices and war-time taxation imposts, then
let them vote for Mr. Chifley and his
Socialist outfit on the first Saturday (it is
tipped) of next December.”
While your appeal to your readers not
to vote for the “Socialist outfit” is soundly
based, may I leave them, after acting on
your sound reasoning, with a brighter
hope for the future provided the Opposi-
tion regains the Treasury benches.
Section 57 of the Constitution reads:
“If the House of Representatives passes •
any proposed law, and the Senate rejects
or fails to pass it, or passes it with amend-
ments to which the House of Representa-
tives will not agree, and if after an interval
of three months the House of Representa-
tives, in the same or the next session, again
passes the proposed law, with or without
any amendments which have been made,
suggested or agreed to by the Senate, and
the Senate rejects or fails to pass it, or
passes it with amendments to which the
House of Representatives will not agree,
the Governor-General may dissolve the
Senate and the House of Representatives
simultaneously. But such dissolution shall
not take place within six months before
the date of the expiry of the House of
Representatives by effluxion of time.”
It follows that if the Opposition gain
the Treasury benches and repeal the
Banking Act of 1947, and the Senate re-
fuges twice to consent to the repeal of
the Act, the Prime Minister can demand
a double-dissolution. Since the Governor-
General only holds office at the King’s
pleasure, and his Majesty acts on the
advice of his Australian Prime Minister,
the Governor-General could be sacked if
he refused to, grant a double-dissolution
and another Governor-General appointed.
If, after another election, there was a
deadlock owing to Labor still having a
majority in tfie Senate,, then both Houses
would sit together, and the measure before
the joint Houses would be decided by a
majority.—J. R. L. B. (W.A.).
Liberty First
I read with great pleasure “Quality
and Equality” (B. 26/1/’49). I notice
you quoted De Tocqueville’s warning to
the youthful United States with regard
to egalitarianism. While agreeing with
the belief expressed by De Tocqueville, I
find it very difficult to believe that the
egalitarianism noted by him was any-
where near so dear to the young American
“ Struth! I COULD do with a shave.”
nation as he apparently thought it was.
It was Napoleon who declared that the
difference between the English and the
French was that the French cared a great
deal for equality and nothing for liberty
while the English were indifferent to
equality but valued liberty above every-
thing else. Is it possible that a young
nation of British stock which had so
recently secured its freedom could so
soon place equality before liberty? Still,
De Tocqueville’s warning may have
scotched a move towards egalitarianism.
—B. (W.A.).
Coal-transport
“Dee” (B. 16/2/’49) speaks without
thought when he talks abodt running a
third rail from N.S.W. into Queensland,
to be used for coal-transport only, so that
“coal could go from the Callide and
Blair Athol down to the Victorian border
and right through to South Australia.”
Adelaide is 2323 miles by rail from Blair
Athol, Trucks would have to be hauled
back empty because there would be no
return loading. The job could not be
done —even if track capacity permitted—
at less than one penny per ton per mile.
Such coal would cost more than £lO per
ton at Adelaide and not a great deal less
in Melbourne. And by what magic
method is N.S.W. to secure the trucks and
locomotives? She has not sufficient to
move her own wheat crop. Transhipment
at the Victorian border would be neces-
sary unless a third rail was also laid from
Albiiry to Adelaide.
Adding a third rail in Queensland
would involve rebuilding the lines, as
standard-gauge rolling-stock could not
travel round the sharp curves which a
3ft.-6in .-gauge line permits. But to cap it
all, traffic orjthe Queensland lines north
of Brisbane (over which all this traffic
would have to pass) is already frequently
at safuration-point for single track. To
move a million tons of coal over the route
suggested would involve about 10 extra
trains each way daily. That’s out of the
question without duplication, involving
colossal expenditure, with no prospect of
obtaining the construction material for
many years. Nor could N.S.W. absorb
such extra traffic on its main lines with-
out vast outlay on track, to say nothing
of the provision Of extra locomotives and
trucks.
Another snag is that the removal of one
ton of coal from Blair Athol to Adelaide
and the return of the empty trucks would
require the use of about three-quarters
of a ton of coal for haulage. The fuel
would need to be distributed along the
whole route to locomotive-coaling stations
with further heavy coal consumption to
place it there, making the scheme imprac-
ticable.
The suggestion to build a direct
to port from the opencut areas 'breaks
no new ground. Such a scheme is already
in train, and engineers are now working
on it. But why should a standard-gauge
line be necessary? South Africa, with
the same “antiquated” gauge as Queens-
land, has many coal trucks with a carry-
ing capacity of 67 tons. At Whyalla the
Broken Hill Co. caries its iron-ore in 50-
ton trucks over the same “antiquated”
gauge. The capacity of N.S.W- coal-
hoppers is 16 tons.
The solution of any big coal-fexport
problem is access by the best possible
route from the mines to the sea. There
the Lord provides and maintains the per-
manent way, and no replacement costs
are involved. — Will S. Pryce (Q.).
Conservatism!
In agriculture the value of conserva-
tive practices has been strikingly vindi-
cated, and is now acknowledged by
realistic modern agricultural scientists. It
was common in the nineteenth century
for so-called “progressive” farmers to
sneer at their fellows who persisted in
scrupulously adhering to age-old prac-
tices of proved efficiency. The earth-wise
conservatives had the last laugh. Where
the land continued to be farmed accord-
ing to traditions of proved worth, fertility
has continued unimpaired, though man
has drawn sustenance from the land for
many centuries. On the othpr hand, in
countries where land traditions were re-
placed by newfangled methods, boosted
by laboratory professors, the result has
been disastrous —soil-erosion, loss of fer-
tility and a great increase in diseases of
crops and stock. Now the wiser agri-
cultural pundits have coined the term
conservation-farming, and admit that
there was wisdom in the old ways and
that the up-to-date farmer should adhere
to them in principle.
Political theory that is not based on
sound tradition will in the long run have
the same disintegrating effect on the body
politic.
Australians, in their agricultural con-
duct, have generally shown little care for
maintenance of soil-fertility. There has
been the same reckless disregard of the
future in their handling of forest re-
sources. Politically they have always
tended towards an “after me the deluge”
attitude. The politician who made the
classic remark: “Posterity! Why should
Ido anything for posterity? What has
posterity ever done for me?” was not an
Australian, but his point of view is typical
of that of too many Australians. It is
not of a kind that will foster an enduring
civilisation,
To the conservative such an outlook is
anathema. Respecting the achievements
of his ancestors, he regards himself as
merely trustee for the heritage they have
handed down to him, and feels that it is
his duty to pass it on in turn to the next
generation in even mote flourishing con-
dition. — Dentonio (N.S.W.).
Millions Up in Smoke
Hydrogenation of coal has been men-
tioned again in connection with the
Callide (Q.) leases, subject to a seven-
years’ exemption from taxation being
granted to the promoters. It calls to
mind the continuing futility of Australia
possessing some of the finest seams of gas-
bearing coal in the world which it ex-
ploits solely as a smoke-producing base,
despite the meteoric growth of coal and
natural-gas extractive industries abroad,
notably in Britain and the United States.
For every pound’s-worth of coal burned
here at least 10 times the value goes up
the chimney, whether domestic or indus-
trial. The raw material is irreplaceable in
a world already short of petroleum.
Coal has been processed for over a
century by high-temperature methods, the
main derivative being industrial and
domestic gas, with ammonia, tar and a
few odds and ends, like coke, as the main
by-products. The volatile gases, which
are identical with the “natural gas” har-
nessed by the Yanks, contain the base-
stuff of approximately 500 marketable
carbon derivatives, including such random
examples as plastics, dyes, medicines,
synthetic fats, resins, paints, crude oil and
fertilisers. Owing to the low volatilisa-
tion temperature, the gasworks misses out
on every one of these valuable yields, and
the day of high-temperature treatment in
conventional gas-plants is practically
over,
Hydrogenation has been a commercial
failure everywhere it has been tried, in-
cluding Hitler’s Germany. Capital outlay
and operating costs are heavy, and the
process is only serviceable to a
nation starved for oil, subject to blockade
and in need of fuel for war purposes
regardless of cost. These are the least of
the evils involved, for the loss of the in-
finitely more valuable volatile gases is
complete. It is to be hoped, for both the
promoters’ and the • country’s sake, that
the Queensland scheme has technical im-
provements over the standard processes
of hydrogenation.
Most promise has been shown from
low-temperature carbonisation, originat-
ing in Germany and England before the
war, and now on a sound commercial
basis in England. Light retorts, low fuel
consumption, recovery of volatiles and
quick retorting times all play a favorable
part in an industry which also yields
appreciable quantities of heavy fuel oil
at a competitive price, while the Aus-
tralian invention of electrical precipita-
tion of the volatile gases has improved
extractive efficiency and quartered retort-
ing times.
This country is running a bad last in
commercial exploitation of coal. The
commercial investor lacks the training in
organic chemistry necessary to a proper
appreciation of the possibilities of what
could be the major industry of the
Southern Hemisphere, while the political
approach is handicapped by the lack of
appreciation in high places of perhaps the
only technical industry in which the fact
of election fails' to make the contem-
porary politician an instant expert. The
only Federal politicians interested at all
are from mining areas, with an imperfect
and obsolete knowledge of hydrogenation
as their sole equipment. Providentially,
transport difficulties prevented the seiz-
ing of out-of-date German hydrogenation
plant as reparations, with a second Glen
Davis as the logical outcome. That
may ultimately pay dividends by starting
the industry on modem lines with up-to-
date equipment. While Australia waits,
the millions still pour up the chimneys
into space. —C. M. (N.S.W.).
The Root of the Matter
Although I don’t like nationalisation
on principle, nursing is one of the things
that should be socialised to the extent that
there should be a system of free nursing
so that a really sick and bedridden person
could have free the services of a capable
nurse in his own house. In many a
home there is the tragedy of some old
person slowly dying without trained
attention— Pawang (Vic.)
Improved amenities are not in them-
selves a cure for country-town decay (B.
16/2/’49). I know a N.S.W. township
that has had electric light (and, before
it, gas) and water and sewerage for years.
In the 1920’s it also had an admirable co-
operative building-society scheme. A suc-
cession of building societies on this model
has enabled many townsmen to own
good brick houses. The town’s situation
is pleasant, the air healthy—it is said to
be particularly good for asthmatics. Yet
the place is not making substantial
progress. Indeed, secondary industries are
fewer in number and less varied in kind
than in the ’nineties —A. L- D- (N.S.W.;.


The Swelling Incubus
Somebody (B. 16/2/’49) referred to an
advertisement for 60 lawyers for the
Commonwealth public service. Well, 1
went through “Commonwealth Gazette
No. 14,” of 10/2/’49, which can be
taken as a fair specimen. Here is the
result:
New positions created: External Affairs,
Overseas Diplomatic Staff Division, coun-
sellor, £llBB p.a. (officer-in-charge of
Australian Diplomatic or Consular post
abroad). Treasury, Taxation branch,
W.A., 3 accounting machinists (female) at
£357 p.a. each. Works and Housing:
assistant engineer for roads and aero-
dromes, £llsß p.a., clerk, £423, typist, £369.
Defence, senior research and defence officer,
£745 p.a., technical officer, Signals Bureau,
£565, two machine operators (female), Sig-
nals Bureau,£34s, staff and industrial officer,
£655, clerk, £423, inspector (Finance and
Staff), Hobart, £678, supervisor rifle-clubs,
Hobart, £655. Civil Aviation, regional
director, Melbourne, £1375 p.a. Trade and
Customs, clerks, 1 at £745 p.a., 1 at £655,
1 at £633, 5 at £6lO, 4 at £475.
Repatriation Dept., N.S.W., clerk at,£426,
two supervisors, £678 and £633, two postal
clerks, £402 each, postal clerk, £420, ac-
counting machinist, £345. Vic., 23 tele-
graphists at from £255 to £438. Q’land,
assistant superintendent, £745, clerk, £SOB,
two assistants, £456 and £432. S.A., two
supervising technicians, £654 and £666, two
postal clerks, £402 each, postal assistant,
£420. W.A;, superintendent, £9lB, two
supervising technicians, £636 and £624, two
postal clerks, £402 and £291. Tas., clerk,
£543.
The above positions have all been
filled by persons whose names are in-
serted in the “Gazette.” In addition
there are scores of new appointments of
assistants, typists, telephonists, postal
officers, etc., at commencing (minimum-
rates) salaries. It is when we come to
“Notification of Vacancies” that the really
big “plums” are set forth —hundreds of
minor positions vacant are not advertised
in the “Gazette,” but just filled by trans-
fer and/or promotion of others already
employed. A few of the advertised
vacancies in this particular “Gazette”:
Various departments: Senior journalist,
£978-1068, senior research and defence offi-
cer, £978-1068, sub-collector, £520-630,
architect, £7OO-745, £490-700, draftsman,
£490-700, senior officer, Long-range Wea-
pons estbt., £520-610, research officers,
£565-700, £472-607 (female), £454-700,
0.-i.-c. employment division, £7OO-790,
education officer, £7OO-790, economist,
£978-1068, computers (2), £565-655, clerks
(8), £475-565, £655-745, £6lO-700, £423-505,.
senior surveyor, £BSB-948, surveyor, £835-
888, surveyor and property surveyor, £978-
1068, chief industrial officer, £IO3B-1313,
assistant, £432-456, senior biochemist, £9lB-
- field officer (Agriculture), £565-655,
executive engineers, £llsß-1313, £7OO-745,
£454-700, recruitment inspector, £978-1068,
assistant supervisor, £9lB-1008, postmaster,
£633-745, senior postal clerk, £505-543,
supervising technician, £570-606, and about
40 others ranging from £475 to £IO6B.
Many of the higher-paid jobs are at
Canberra, where it seems almost impos-
sible to get men to go (except in the
highest salary-group jobs). Thus it swells,
week by week, bringing ever nearer that
“Golden Age” when all shall be public
servants and the last free men will have
been hunted down, captured and shoved
into a department.— Tin Hat (Vic.).
Decentralisation.
New-Staters and advocates of decen-
tralisation will obtain a handy impression
of the merits of their schemes if they
look across the Tasman
Total population of New Zealand
approximates the population of Sydney;
yet there are four stout cities, Welling-
ton, the capital (150,000), Auckland
(212,000), Christchurch (132,500) and
Dunedin (82,000) —1936 census. Each
has a university, theatres, libraries, art
galleries, museums and so forth. Their
importance in the eyes of people from
abroad is rated not less than that of
Sydney and Melbourne. Each has a
morning and evening newspaper, as well
as weeldy and monthly publications.
In addition, there arte 21 provincial
towns with populations in excess of 5000,
including Blenheim, 8000, Gisborne,
16.000, Hamilton, 16,000, Invercargill,
26.000, Masterton, 9000, Napier, 19,000,
Nelson, 13,600, New Plymouth, 19,000,
Palmerston North, 23,500, Timaru,
19.000, and Wanganui, 24,000. In 1936
thp populations of the principal N.S.W.
towns, excluding Newcastle and Broken
Hill, were; Wollongong, 14,000, Cessnock,
15.000, Lithgow, 13,500, Goulbum,
15,260, Wagga, 12,500, Maitland, 12,600,
and Lismore, 12,600. Thus N.Z. has
eight provincial towns with populations
in excess of 15,000, whereas N.S.W. can
boast only two (four with Newcastle
and Broken Hill).
If the new-Staters are successful it is
reasonable to expect that a lively impetus
will be given to the growth of the prin-
ciptal towns in their areas.
It has become obvious that Sydney
University cannot cope with the entrants
“The bumper-bars aren't very strong .”
into the various faculties, and new uni-
versities in other parts of the State are
necessary’. Similarly, diversification
would help solve the housing problem.
As new States are formed, capital cities
will be necessary and they will garner
their share of public buildings, business
houses, public utilities and cultural activi-
ties.
N.Z. is not the only example available.
Texas, smaller than N.S.W., can point to
Fort Worth, Houston, San Antonio and
Texas City as milestones of its progress.
Selfishness, Sydney jealousy and politics
permitting, the new-Staters may one day
be able to boast of a similar development
in N.S.W. — Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Notes from Asia
Few persons in this city (Macao, S.
China) are, as a rule, interested in what
goes on in Australia, but if Mr. Cal well
were to hear some of the remarks made
by my Chinese and Portuguese friends
about the O’Keefe affair he would prob-
ably wish himself at Tel-Aviv, where, I
understand, there is an avenue named in
his honor. It would be expected that
any Government lacking the guts neces-
sary to demand that Messrs. Healy,
Elliott and other “fellow-travellers” re-
move their respective hides from, good
Australian soil would naturally drive a
defenceless woman out of the country.
What puzzles me is why have not the
wharfies, who banned Dutch ships in sup-
port of their “Indernesian” comrades,
done something to help Mrs. O’Keefe?
This act is sheer stupidity. It has already
made a bad impression in this part of
the world, in Hong Kong and in Singa-
pore. If Australia finds itself suffering
in consequence of the O’Keefe case it
must not be surprised. The country is
suffering already by reason of bad trad-
ing methods.
“White Australia” does not enter into
the matter. There is no question of the
country being swamped by masses of
colored people. There are laws to pre-
vent that. For heaven’s sake, Australia,
do something about your “Sawdust
Caesars,” who have already made you the
laughing-stock of the world, both at
U.N.O. —which, perhaps, is not really im-
portant—and in Asia, which is. A recent
leading article in a Hong Kong news-
paper on ,the O’Keefe case should, if read
in Australia, turn some faces red.—
Mariner (S. China).
We Australians in the Far East, and
particularly in Hong Kong—and there is
a large number of us —are getting fed up
with being the laughing-stock of the place.
If it is not Mr. Chifley’s Parliamentary
rabbits who are opening their big mouths
wide • enough for an elephant to put its
foot in each one, it is the importers and
exporters who are doing the damage to
the name of Australia.
I realised very shortly after arriving in
Hong Kong that there was a distinct
smell around the name Australia, and to
mention the fact that one was a native
of the country was like waving the pro-
verbial red rag at the bull. I encountered
trouble in every business house in Hong
Kong, and on each occasion I was sub-
jected to a lengthy haranguing on Aus-
tralian business methods, with which there
was no argument to the contrary.
I was under the impression that my
connections in Australia were of the best,
but it was not long before I realised that
they were no better, if not worse, than all
the others who had come before me.
In consequence I went out of business
so quickly I hardly knew it. I lost what
money I had saved during the war and
I am now working for someone else again.
No doubt you have already read of
the many complaints regarding Australian
methods, so I will not repeat them, but I
personally investigated many and found
them qualified. In fact, I can add some.
The acting Australian Trade Commis-
sioner has a tough job on his hands clear-
ing up the mess, but he is fortunately the
type who can do it.
An engineer has just arrived back from
Sydney a month before his leave expired,
and there was never a happier man. He
has given us an insight into conditions in
Australia, which I thought were bad
enough nine months ago, but his story
was a revelation to everyone here. Hong
Kong may be expensive, but we can at
least live and not exist under the con-
stant threat of strikes, shortages and the
dictatorial methods of a semi-totalitarian
Government. It is no wonder we
are called “refugees from Chifley.”—
George (Hong Kong).
National Savings
The Prime Minister’s campaign to en-
courage national savings is not much
good without some action being taken;
The Federal bureaucracy, which has
grown from 60,000 in 1939 to 160,000 to-
day, should be reduced by at least 70,000
to cope with the labor shortage.
The Federal note issue, which was £5O-
- million in 1939, is now £212 million
—thereby putting a free loan on the
public since 1939 of £l5O million. No
wonder there is inflation. It will increase
Unless at least £lOO million is taken out
of circulation.
The subsidies paid by the Federal Gov-
ernment to keep prices down should be
continued. The payroll and sales taxes,
both being uneconomic, should be
abolished to help keep prices down.
Everyone should work 44 hours in-
stead of 40 hours, so as to catch up the
housing shortage.
Tariffs could also be greatly reduced to
help reduce prices.—F. O. (W.A.).
Victorian Country Towns
If “Carlyle” (B. 16/2/’49) has any more
of his “£2OO blocks 11 miles from Mel-
bourne on a made road with all services”
I would like to know where they are.
Actually home-allotment prices are
much dearer in city than country. Current
price for a block with all services is close
to £6OO. On February 19 blocks in East
Brighton sold for £685. These had all
services, but were in a “poorer” part of
this suburb.
“Carlyle’s” town must be full of land
sharks. In Bendigo there are plenty of
good blocks for £250 to £3OO and some
are on the tram-line.
Most of Victoria’s inland cities and
towns are holding their population
through the expansion of industry there.
They are also gaining plenty of good
sturdy new homes, owing no doubt to the
cheaper land values and lower municipal
rates than the city. — Waddlin’ Willie
(Vic.).
Why Not Pise?
Commonwealth building experts, after
extensive study of English, American and
Russian earth-building methods, say that
piste houses are comparable in comfort,
appearance and durability with any kind
of modem construction. I’ve seen
numbers of these houses, often over 50
years old, in Dubbo, Young and Coota-
mundra districts. Plastered and lined,
they have a fine, solid appearance, are
cooler in summer and warmer in winter
than orthodox constructions, and take less
skilled labor to build. There is no limit
to designs, and, as the material costs
nothing save the cost of handling, pise
must be. the cheapest type of construction
possible.
To my mind, rammed-earth provides a
building material which harmonises with
the Australian countryside. By building
these homes in country districts, the rural
slums prevalent in many parts would be
largely eliminated, and the project would
undoubtedly appeal to thousands of
farm-dwellers in need of comfortable
homes.— Fibre and Mud (N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD
Across.
I—Animal mummy by the jetty
made the first uncomplimentary
references to Western Australia.
(7)
s—Not a genuine expression of con-
tempt for a way of keeping your
hair on. (7)
8— Victorian town hurried back-
wards twice to make progress.
(10)
9 Gossipacious talk on the piano
signifies shortness of breath. (4)
11 — Unite in a disorderly fashion,
and disunite. (5)
12— It can stretch out in Castile. (7)
14 —Customs have a little laughter on
the fragments. (6)
16—A feast for an Arab steed with
old French money by the East.
(8)
18— Tree-feller, perhaps, has civic
authority. (8)
19 — Enthusiast has plenty maize at
first. (6)
21 —Studying to sing about the wet
returns. (7)
24—Scott’s Baulderstone misconstrues
the cable. (5)
26 — Mob gets that woman’s pennies.
(4)
27 — Sacred hurry by the rodent be-
fore I go to California. (10)
(cryptic type.)
(Solution in next issue.)
No. 7
28 — It is un-Christian to cook
poultry.. (7)
29 — Is riding a Scottish mount early,
what a blessing! (7)
Down.
1 — Brown turned the red bosses, the
duffers. (11)
2 River, with twin spirits (one
upset), is to offer a price on the
horse. (12)
3 Sleep in it, although it is unsuit-
able. (5)
4 Carpeted and rough. (6)
5 He makes the rest moan because
he works with dispatch. (8)
6 A lot of untidiness about it in
these hills. (5)
7 Approval upsets daddy before I
finish off this animal. (5)
9—Talk of bees in the wind. (6)
10 —Fish make the football defender
giggle in the steamer. (12)
13 —Dejected comb lying over autumn
in French. (11)
15 —Hot hill is freed of a nuisance.
(6)
17 —Beastly king of the thugs has a
nerve! (8)
20 —Insect takes the urchin to South
Carolina. (6)
22—Topic involves the maker of this
puzzle. (5)
23—Pull by twisting the west with
balance. (5)
25—Fifty take a metal tongue. (5)
SOLUTION TO CROSSWORD No. 6.


V-
sm
I
VC
£
<3
1
>s
2Sa
S 3
S 2
r>r-
'x
K
you build
or buy a home
consult The
MIX
The M.L.C. can offer you finance on most
reasonable terms. By means of Life Assurance
your debt is covered should you die during
the term of the loan. Full information is
freely available from any M.L.C. Office or
Representative.
The
ė
The MUTUAL LIFE and ClTlZENS’Assurance Co. Ltd.
HEAD OFFICE: Martin Place and Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
MELBOURNE:
Collins and Elizabeth
Streets.
BRISBANE:
Commercial House,
Queen and Creek Streets.
ADELAIDE:
Savings Bank Building,
101 King William Street.
PERTH:
179 a St. George’s
Terrace.
HOBART:
Bank of Australasia
Chambers, Elizabeth and
Collins Streets.
WELLINGTON (N.Z.):
M.L.C. Building, Lambton
Quay.
