

CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN!
A Have yon friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then, is news that must
interest you. Just imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
In the same wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the “WINE-FOB-
BBITAIN” scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their London Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. You’ll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be hero. Get details
of Seppelts “Wine-For-Britain” scheme: Write to The House of Seppelt, Box 1432 H, G.F.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
D
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
The Bulletin
-The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. ,3642
Wednesday, November 30, 1949
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
FOXZAMI
Bay horse by Nizami-Honey wood. Four years
WINNER OF MELBOURNE CUP, 1949
Owner: L. G. ROBINSON
Trainer: D. LEWIS
Jockey: W. FELLOWS
Weight: Bst. 81b. Time: 3min. 28Jsec.


FD
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
I’h ase send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
8.8. 149
.AQE.
The Red Page
McLINTOCK'S OTAGO.
It is said that the only committee in
history which ever earned itself a monu-
ment was the one which surrendered
Calais to the English and in consequence
is, or was, portrayed in bronze in the
square of the old city, each member with
a halter round his neck.
Surprisingly, the Otago Centennial
Historical committee has also qualified
for a monument. Centennials are not
usually productive of useful historical
work. Sydney’s sesquicentenary celebra-
tion of the foundation of Australia
produced nothing but the horrible word
which described it and a little frothy non-
sense which would be described in
America as “boost.”
The reason the Otago committee has
done better apparently is that it selected
a good man and gave him a free hand.
The task which was set for Dr. A. H.
McLintock, of the staff of Otago Uni-
versity, was neither easy nor leisurely.
The project was put in hand in November,
1945. It was February, 1946, before he
was appointed editor of historical pub-
lications. He was set the task of editing
twenty district histories prepared by local
district committees and a history of the
women pioneers. These works alone were
enough to turn the hair of a Chinaman
grey, apart from the strain involved in
writing a general history of the province.
But if the district histories come up in
quality to the general history and are
relatively as copious as the main volume,
The History of Otago (Whitcombe and
Tombs), the province’s eventful past has
been very well covered, and a prototype
has been provided for the Royal Aus-
tralian Historical Society and other
similar bodies in Australia to follow an
excellent New Zealand example.
It is true that New Zealand history is
not quite so colorful in its social aspect as
the history of New South Wales in an
earlier time, and this makes it somewhat
more difficult to write, even with the
Maoris thrown in. Convict settlements
are more picturesque than Wakefield
settlements, but fortunately the Scottish
who have had a great part in the develop-
ment of southern New Zealand have a
color of their own.
It is the fashion of reviewers of his-
torical works to make a point of knowing
more than the historian with whose work
they deal. This is easily achieved by
reference to Pears’ or some other
encyclopaedia of equal standing from
which a large number of supposed facts
may be gleaned. The process of criticism
then becomes easy. The critic first picks
out all the alleged facts which are
trumpeted in Pears’ and learnedly slaps
the historian for omitting them. It would
be very difficult to adopt this method of
approach to Dr. McLintock’s work be-
cause if there is any fact on which he
has failed to lay hands it must be in hiding
out on Moggy Island or at some point
further south.
Neither is it possible for the reviewer to
cover a profound personal ignorance by
adopting the device of comparing
McLintock’s viewpoint to the ravings of
McMolotov in his famous earlier work
(Vol. XIII, p, 4968), because there is no
earlier work, and McLintock may be taken
as the definitive authority'on his subject.
Even the comfort of comparing him to
Macaulay, which is the usual mode among
critics these days of explaining politely
that an author is a wild fellow who draws
his history out of his imagination, is not
available, since McLintock himself writes
quite —amid proper applause—
that, “If I may use Macaulay’s words, my
aim has been ‘to invest with the reality of
human flesh and blood beings whom we
are too much inclined to consider as per-
sonified qualities in an allegory.’ ”
. There is, in fact, nothing for this par-
ticular critic to do save to own up that he
knows next to nothing whatever of the
history of Otago—so little that he has only
been able to pick out, and that without
fir!,- ’ one small slip in referring to
William Charles Wentworth as Charles
Wentworth. Thus he must fall back on
more technical matters and admit failure
to achieve any of the effects which his-
torical critics normally achieve—to an
extent that the reader of their critiques
usually finishes with the impression that
the historian is a poor worm who needs
instruction, and that the critic, though
more erudite and able to view history
from a loftier perch, is not lacking in
generous qualities and feels able without
loss of prestige to scatter a little praise.
Generally speaking, The History of
Otago is a very large work of 789 pages,
but it is a very satisfying one from the
student’s viewpoint.
Its length allows the picture to be de-
tailed, but it also has a burnished quality
in its writing which makes it anything but
dull. It has not the fault often to be
found in such works which results from
the fact that the author has a favorite
period and dwells on it in a way which
leaves the book out of balance.
It is full of word-pictures of events
which are always interesting and some-
times absorbing. And in its stories of the
clash of temperaments, dour and other-
wise, of political battles, of the evolution
of a Scottish civilisation out of a Maori
civilisation, of gold discoveries and of
many disasters of nature there is material
for whole generations of novelists.
No student will find anything to quarrel
with in its method. It is precise in date
and quotation, a rare virtue in work of
this kind. Its notes are sufficient and its
bibliography copious and, one would
imagine, complete. It is an invaluable
contribution to historical research. And
it has what is rarest of all in books of
this sort —a completely satisfying index
based on a proper alphabetical system
throughout instead of on the more easily
compiled chronological system which is
now almost universal, especially in Aus-
tralia.
One feature of the book is that it is
pleasingly free of statistical tables and
decently reticent about the Province’s
numbers of milch cows and exports of
lard until nearly the end, even then taking
care to allow the reader to wash his mind
out afterwards by bathing it in a disserta-
tion on the Otagan poets, some of whom
appear to have written in the broadest
Scots which it was possible to translate
into Maori.
Considering that it deals with a century
of what is literally the longest-distance
piece of settlement in British history—
from the wrong end of Great Britain to
the wrong end of New Zealand—and that
the Province contains now, including
Southland and the Maoris, only about
223,000 people, some of whom are slowly
learning to speak English instead of trans-
lated Gaelic ; and considering particularly
the highly Calvinistic air which has always
pervaded Otago, Dr. McLintock’s book is
a phenomenon and something of a land-
mark in the writing of history in the Anti-
podes.
In itself, it is a measure of the distance
which Otago has advanced in the period
almost spanned by hurqan memory since
Southey—as quoted by Dr. McLintock —
wrote:
On Zealand’s Hills where tigers steal along,
And the dread Indian chants a dismal song;
Where human fiends on midnight errands
walk,
And bathe in brains the murderous toma-
hawk ;
There shall the flocks on thymy pastures
stray.
And shepherds dance at Summer’s opening
day.
Alas! Most of Otago’s dancing this
month will have been done by the poli-
ticians, who have been advancing in
droves in preparation for today’s election.
M.H E.
Completed Bible.
The translation of the Bible by Mgr.
Ronald A. Knox is completed with the
publication of The Old Testament in
English : Job to Machabees (Bums Oates
and Washbourne).
The other two volumes (Mgr. Knox be-
gan with the New Testament) were re-
viewed here on October 12, and this com-
pleting volume seems to bear out and con-
firm the general findings there made—
chiefly that the qualities of Mgr. Knox’s
work are wholly, and abundantly, those
of a great prose translation ; that therein
lies the deep difference between it and
the Authorised Version—a difference
in approach as well as in treatment; the
entire difference between prose and
poetry.
As would be expected, that is even
more marked in the latest volume than in
the others, since so much here is a trans-
lating of poetry into prose—Job itself;
and the Psalms ; and the Prophets. There
is, of course, the clear “readableness”
which is maintained all through Mgr.
Knox’s work ; but necessarily there is
too (in Job particularly; oddly enough,
much more noticeably so than in the
Psalms) a loss of the essential moving
power of poetry which no quality of
prose can replace.
So Job, instead of being a most moving
—if structurally elementary poetic
drama, with moments of the highest
dramatic power and of pure poetry, be-
comes entirely a close-reasoned public de-
bate. All that perhaps needs to be further
said is that that debate is conducted
through all the vigor, clarity and strength
of Mgr, Knox’s clear and direct English
prose.
That, in general, the difference of
approach can produce results that might
be weighed in the scales and little found
between them, one way or the other,
can be readily demonstrated by a com-
parison of one of the shortest of the
Psalms in the two versions. First, the
Authorised:
Psalm Eight.
O Lord our Lord, '
e * ce^ent is thy name in all the earth !
Who hast set thy glory above the heavens.
Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings
hast thou ordained strength
Because of thine enemies,
That thou mightest still the enemy and the
avenger.
When 1 consider thy heavens, the work of
thy fingers.
The moon and the stars, which thou hast
ordained;
What is man, that thou art mindful of
him?
And the son of man, that thou visitest
him ?
For thou hast made him a little lower
than the angels.
And hast crowned him with glory and
honour.
Thou madest him to have dominion over
the works of thy hands;
Thou hast put all things under his feet:
All sheep and oxen,
Yea, and the beasts of the field;
The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea.
And whatsoever passeth through the paths
of the seas.
O Lord our Lotd,
How excellent is thy name in all the earth I
And now the Knox version, surely
losing nothing in the comparison (a foot-
note explains that “all these titles pre-
fixed to various psalms are very obscure,
and that there is little agreement about
their meaning, except that they refer to
the musical and liturgical setting”):
Psalm 8.
(To the end; for the winepresses: a psalm
of David.)
O Lord, our Master, how the majesty of
thy name fills all the earth! Thy greatness
is high above heaven itself. Thou hast
made the lips of children, of infants at
the breast, vocal with praise, to confound
thy enemies; to silence malicious and
revengeful tongues. I look up at those
heavens of thine, the work of thy hands,
at the moon and the stars, which thou
hast set in their places; what is man that
thou shouldst remember him? What is
Adam’s breed, that it should claim thy
care? Thou hast placed him only a little
below the angels, crowning him with glory
and honour, and bidding him rule over
the works of thy hands. Thou hast put
them all under his dominion, the sheep and
the cattle, and the wild beasts besides; the
birds in the sky, and the fish in the sea,
that travel by the sea’s paths. O Lord, our
Master, how the majesty of thy name fills
all the earth.
As that surely indicates, a superb prose
translation of the Bible ; and, it may be
said, an extraordinary accomplishment
for one hand.
Melbourne Gallery Book.
Melbourne National Gallery might be
said to be 90 years old, since it was in
1859 that the trustees of the Public
Library, then six years old, decided that.
Parliament having provided it with the
munificent sum of £2OOO, the money
might be spent on the purchase of works
of art, which in this case turned out to
be “casts of some of the choicest statues
by celebrated sculptors,” coins, medals
and gems and “representations of re-
markable architectural works of all coun-
tries, taken by the new process of Photo-
graphy.”
This modest beginning was supple-
mented by equally modest fits and starts
until the death of Alfred Felton put into
the Gallery’s hands the largest indi-
vidual bequest in the British Empire.
Though not comparable with the colossal
benefactions that the Rockefellers and
the Morgans have made to American art
institutions —a steel man presented the
Metropolitan, New York, with seven
tapestries which alone cost more than the
whole Felton Bequest—the chemist’s
money has, on the whole, been sensibly
spent, and the collection is rich enough
in great works of art to make as good a
show in reproduction as any but the most
famous European institutions.
It gets that good show in Masterpieces
of the National Gallery of Victoria, edited
by Ursula Hoff, with texts by Alan Mc-
Culloch and Joan Lindsay, and an intro-
duction by director Daryl Lindsay.
Wholly set up, printed and bound in
Australia by the Specialty Press, of Mel-
bourne, and, published by F. W. Cheshire,
it is comparable to the best overseas pro-
ductions, both in letterpress and illustra-
tions.
From the famous Van Eyck “Madonna
and Child” to Meldrum’s portrait of his
mother, the volume traverses all the
schools, Medieval and Renaissance,
seventeenth-century Dutch —which in-
cludes probably the best self-portrait
Rembrandt painted— English 17th-, 18th-
and 19th-century landscape painters, 19th-
century French painters and their pre-
decessors and the Australian section. Of
the 119 works reproduced 94 came
through the Felton Bequest.
Yorick Literary Prize.
Conceived by Marcus Clarke in 1868
born on May 9 the same year, the Yorick
Club, Melbourne—still going strong—
will now award a literary prize each
year for the best short poem, essay, article
or short work of fiction submitted to its
judges. Entries for the 1949 prize of 25
guineas close on December 31. First
competition will be for the best short
work of fiction. Authors will retain the
copyright in their manuscripts, but publi-
cation can be arranged, provided quality
is up to standard. The judges will be
W. A. Brennan, formerly of the “Argus”
and for many years the prince of Mel-
bourne leader-writers; Clive Turnbull,
of the “Argus” ; Keith Sinclair, assistant
editor of the “Age”; and M. H. Ellis, of
The Bulletin. Address contributions,
with stamped envelope, to T. W. Far-
rington, Yorick Club, 57 Swanston-
street, Melbourne.
Reviewed Briefly.
The Penguin Classics have done it
again. Beginning with editor Rieu’s
spirited version of the Odyssey, each new
translation has whetted the appetite of
readers of the classics, and the latest,
Rex Warner’s The Persian Expedition,
in no way falls below its distinguished
predecessors. The March of the Ten
Thousand across Persia is still an exciting
tale of adventure and description of
character-reactions, but as well it gives an
authentic picture of the Greek spirit in
its strength and weakness. We would, of
course, like to think of ourselves as
civilised, but there is a lesson for us all
in contemplating ourselves in relation to
Xenophon in the early fourth century b.c.
* * * *
The Lion Roars: Robert Payne
(Heinemann). A charming combination
of realism and fantasy reminiscent of
Garnett’s Sailor’s Return, etc. Lanny’s
missionary father goes mad in the wilds
of Africa after his mother dies; and the
negro chief M’luku takes the boy to live
with his tribe on the shores of a great
lake in a rich dream of tame lions and.
leopard hunts and colorful life, ending
with a forest fire from which all the forest
animals flee into the lake and are
drowned Led back to the railhead by
M’luku, Lanny goes to live with his aunt
in America; and the second part of the
book is a series of Daphnis and Chloe
episodes with the daughter of a family of
Italian farmers.
* * * *
The Uniform: Anthony Rhodes
(Werner Laurie). An Englishman, still in
his teens, goes to stay at Munich with an
old German general to improve his Ger-
man before entering upon his cadetship at
Woolwich. He falls for the depraved
Natalie, and Inge falls for him, so that
when an attempt is made to frame him in
his British uniform, for an effort to assas-
sinate Hitler, it is Inge who clears him
by proving that she slept with him at the
Youth Through Joy barracks, and not
Natalie —a complicated plot, from which
the author extracts considerable satire at
the expense of Hitler Germany, its effect
upon the old Army class, and on the
younger SS style officer-types, in charac-
terisations and atmospheres which are
always real, and sometimes brilliant.
* * * *
The Storm: Ilya Gregorievich Ehren-
burg, translated by Eric Hartley and
Titiana Shebunina (Hutchison Interna-
tional Authors, Ltd.). A dull propaganda
novel of 800 pages concerning the biggest
war in history. Any sort of war, down
to cat versus dog, is loaded with interest-
ing copy, but Ehrenburg’s, even at the
height of battle, progresses on these
lines:
Eyes arid bands are guided by a deter-
mination which helps Anti-tank-gunner
Slipavalov let the tank approach within
100 paces, Gunner Chaduskin to note the
movements of the opponent’s second
echelon. Sergeant Nalivayko to bring up
ammunition in time....
Considering Ehrenburg’s situation, his
reduction of the Allied war effort to
terms of supplying the Soviet with a few
field-telephones and some canned meat
and his belief that only young, green
Fritzes were sent to meet the Allied
second front, causing one German father
to lament “Had our Hans been at Stalin-
grad we could have been proud of hav-
ing given a hero to our Fiihrer,” are
bearable stuff. But when one of his
characters, speaking on wine, and French
wine at that, as compared to vodka, says
“The impression is gratifying, but super-
ficial,” one almost wishes one could
reach out and twiddle M. Ehrenburg’s
ears.


ADVERTISING
TRUTH IN
//iYJ
'/'I
W,
■it -it -it ~L-
'tween#
+ + + ■* + + +
M
&
ft
,
m
Z 4
Ideal for those holidays ahead!
English "Sirrain”
Lightweight and compact
Picnic Outfits
ii
■ :V
«4
ill
m i
Beach Picnic Case, £ 10/10/-
For four persons, waterproof
leather cloth has slide fasten-
er. Contains two plastic
covered Thermos flasks,
metal food tin, three screw
top jars, four each plastic
cups and spoons. £lO/10/-.
A hove.
Picnic Basket for Four, £l3/13/6
This fitted wicker basket made from English
willow, contains two each Thermos flasks, food
containers, milk bottles, jars; four each cups and
saucers, beakers, plates, knives, forks, spoons.
With kettle set, in place of Thermos flasks as illustrated,
price £l3/12/6; for six persons, price £2l.
Picnic Basket for Two Persons, £7/13/6
Contains 2 each cups, saucers, plates, beakers, knives, forks, spoons;
Thermos flask, food container, milk bottle, butter jar. £7/13/6.
ft
ZJ _
r
%
5
I \
yi
rw' z
\
xv
a*
lit f
1> >a : -w ! /
f u
' A'
R&N
nfstO
r
r^/;
ssf-*
'f
F
Beach Picnic Case, JB9/11/6
With fall front, zipp fastener,
contains three jars, metal
food container, four each
cups and plates. £9/11/6.
mll ■« n, mss. MM
s -y; '., ?y<«",£
.
A;
V C\
m
/ y
WMM
■■' £
liiilii
Fitted Picnic Case for Four, <£ll/5/-
This handsome leather-covered Picnic Case for four
persons has a drop front. It contains two metal food
containers, two Thermos flasks and four each of the
following: Cups, saucers, plates, spoons, knives and
forks. Complete at the amazing price of £ll/5/-.
Ik.
:
w*
r~
g
ii I »• j
Fitted Picnic Case for Six Persons, JEI9/5/-
Contains three Thermos flasks, milk bottles, two
sandwich tins and canisters, six each cups, saucers,
plates, beakers, knives, forks, teaspoons, two screw-
top jars. Available with kettle set instead, and one
Thermos flask. As illustrated in photo above, £l9/5/-
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ TRAVEL GOODS DEPT.—GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY. FREIGHT EX r


//
r «
W
v$
J,
y
v
m
J
& 1
L
When the Election Race is over on
December 10 it will be too late!
Take a swab NOW of the Chifley
Policy. You'll find it heavily doped
with Socialism, with clear traces of
the poisonous Communism.
Both of them will prevent the
people getting a go”
THERE'S ONLY ONE THING TO DO
WITH THE DOPED RUNNER—
1
Vote
COUNTRY PARTY
(See your local Country Party Committee for Voting Instructions)
(Authorised by J. F. Dredge, 42 Bridge Street, Sydney.)


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3642
Wednesday, November 30, 1949
“GOING MY WAY-ON A FULL PETROL-TANK?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8V5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
SAME SOCIALIST DOG.
At last, in Hobart, Mr. Chifley has been
persuaded to declare himself. Socialisa-
tion, he says, is certainly not shelved by
his party,
I Maybe he felt that his Surry Hills
lieutenant, Mr. Ward, was setting a pace
that, for leadership’s sake, he had to over-
haul. Or perhaps he found himself so
directly challenged by the Menzies
counter-lead that he had to answer the
question: “Are you bound to socialisation
or not?” Anyhow, he conceded the need
to declare his attitude on his party’s objec-
tive and platform.
His policy speech was obviously not
good enough for either the Socialist or
the unattached voter. In it he had said:
There will be scares about nationalisation.
... .There has never been any mystery
about the Labor party’s policy and plat-
form. It is known to all, whether it deals
with social security, shipbuilding, banking
or help for Britain....
False and malicious statements are being
circulated that the Labor party intends to
nationalise farms and homes and shops
and all industry.
That’s all. Just like that. Could anything
be more offhand or contemptuous? It
was not only offhand ; it was deliberately
deceptive, and Mr. Chifley’s denial of
what he called “false and malicious state-
ments” is itself false,
First and foremost, it is, by his own
former statements, false. He issued a
message to his Socialist party last
Christmas in which he said that 1949
“will be crucial for the Labor move-
ment,” that it was “necessary to keep the
ranks solid” because “Labor has a
platform for which it will continue to
legislate.” Then last October, in Parlia-
ment, to a direct question from Mr.
Anthony of Richmond, Mr. Chifley
denied that his party had selected a list
of industries for nationalisation without
any charge of exploitation against them ;
but the list is there, in the Socialist pro-
gramme.
By the time Mr. Chifley’s tour brought
him to Hobart something had to be done
to clear the air, Mr. Ward was also on
i tour declaring not only that “the Govern-
ment believes in nationalisation of the
banks and is working to that end,” but
also that “without nationalisation Labor
cannot exercise power.” The secretary of
the A.C.T.U, had the same cue on the
Government’s real intentions, and took
the election platform to declare:
Labor knows where it is going, and will
not be deviated. It had never apologised
for its objective, the socialisation of
industry, production, distribution and
exchange.
That was the tune of Mr. Chifley him-
self a year ago, and of the A.L.P. presi-
dent at the N.S.W. party conference last
June: —
There can be no ambiguity about our
policy of socialisation, and anyone who
does not subscribe to it is not in sympathy
with the Labor party.
So to the Hobart audience Mr. Chifley
said:
The Labor party’s policy of socialisation
is not dead. Let there be no misunder-
standing about that. We are not backing
down on socialisation.
Then he repeated his spurious stuff about
socialising only industries “which are
exploiting the public,” and added that
“we cannot nationalise the banks because
it is against the Constitution.” He said
the same all through last Parliament
about nationalising the mines. If the
highest courts’ rulings in the Bank-Grab
case mean what Mr. Chifley says they
mean to him, then he cannot nationalise
any of the industries and services selected
for the Socialist axe—whether they are
“exploiting the public” has nothing to do
with the selection—in the “Labor” plat-
form, namely: Banking, credit and in-
surance ; monopolies, shipping and trans-
port, public health, radio services and
sugar-refining.
j So what does this “no backing-down
on socialisation” mean? Why all this
1 backing and filling about what the Chifley
Government proposes to do with the
sole objective of the “Labor” party since
it was captured 28 years ago by the Com-
munists?
Primarily, Mr. Chifley wants another
three years’ blank cheque to get round
the Constitution somehow, but, anyway,
to stay in power. Even if he should have,
in the event, as little to show for it as for
the past three years, he can always say
that he did his best, but that the courts
stymied him whenever he tried to legislate
for the revolutionary changes which
everyone must have known about when
they voted “Labor,” and so forth.
The methods of pursuing the socialisa-
tion objective are recited in the “Labor”
platform; they are “to be achieved by
inter alia” (very important, that inter
alia): Clothing of the Commonwealth
Parliament with full sovereign powers,
turning the States into mere subordinate
local delegations of the central authority,
abolishing the Senate, and abolishing
appeals from the High Court. The
methods not mentioned (that is where
inter alia comes in) for implementing
socialisation include those of (1) squeezing
out trading banks, shipping companies,
commercial air transport and radio and
others in the gun by making it impossible
for them to carry on, (2) obtaining cen-
tralised control of all prices and charges
(as this Government means to attempt at
another referendum), whereunder every
individual could be made to get official
permission before buying or selling any-
thing, and (3) giving the meaning the
Socialists intend to the phrase “exploita-
tion in industry,” the phrase which Mr.
Chifley uses as though he were speaking
of some extortionate trust or private
monopoly.
Under (1) and (2) the Government
could, for instance, demand the depositing
with the Commonwealth Bank of such a
proportion of the trading banks’ deposits
that they couldn’t continue in business or
that a “run” on them would “compel” the
Government to take over their liabilities ;
or it could tax industries it disliked out
of existence; or it could throttle private
enterprise in other directions as it means
to strangle the shipping companies. Hav-
ing handed back ships commandeered for
war purposes, it requires the companies
to scrap them at a specified age (calculated
at that which they would reach in a year
or two) and to replace them only from
Government shipbuilding yards as the
Minister may approve. The possibilities
of interference everywhere under these
Heads can be computed by any farmer or
small shopkeeper.
But under (3), the “exploitation” yard-
stick covers a deception not so easily per-
ceived ; and a meaning already given to
it by an A.L.P. conference (that in N.S.W.
in 1931) gives the lie direct to Mr.
Chifley’s policy-speech lines declaring
allegations that his party would
nationalise “farms and homes and shops
and all industry” to be “false and
malicious.” To begin with, whether or
not any business, large or small, is “ex-
ploiting” the public is held to be entirely
for the Socialist blank-cheque holders
themselves to decide. But, more than
that, the Socialisation Report adopted by
the 1931 A.L.P. conference recom-
mended that “workers’ and small farmers’
and small businessmen’s homes and per-
sonal and other property, not used as
capital for exploiting the labor of
others.... need not be vested in the
people’s Government.”
“Exploitation,” when the word is used
in Socialist mouths, means employment
by one man of others at wages, whether
he be a farmer or a shopkeeper or a
home-builder. Any man who employs
another for wages is an “exploiter.” The
A.L.P. conference resolution above-cited
says so. Let the electors beware of Mr.
Chifley with his ambiguities; let them
take one piece of advice he has given
them in another connection —“Don’t let
the same dog bite you twice.”
The vote at these elections is, as Mr.
Menzies says, itself a referendum on the
socialisation question. It is also the
electors’ last chance to declare in favor
of their democratic way of life as they
know it.
Canberra and State Rights.
An issue in the imminent Federal elections
in some areas of Australia is undoubtedly
State rights. It has been made an issue
partly because of the attention developed
through agitations for new States and
partly by the frustration of even State
“Labor” Governments through the
socialistic policy of Canberra.
Within the years since the war has
ended a policy of centralisation has been
in operation in the Federal “Labor”
party as it has been, in consequence, in
the Federal Government and the Federal
Parliament. The Federal constitution of
the A.L.P. was remodelled four years ago
very much on the lines adopted a few
months earlier by the Australian Com-
munist party after the formal “abolition”
of the Comintern. The Federal executive
of the party has been established in
Canberra. The method of electing
members of the Federal conference has
been changed to allow the whittling-down
of the rights of rank-and-file delegates at
annual conventions. A closer liaison has
been established between the A.L.P.
executive office and the “Labor” Govern-
ment. And side-by-side with this can be
noticed a general tightening of Canberra’s
grip on functions and policies which
hitherto have been left to the States to
implement.
One example, the significance of which
has not yet been fully realised by the
people, is the passing of the Supply
and Development Act, which, ostensibly
for defence, is really a piece of machinery
to justify the Commonwealth’s wholesale
entry into fields of public work which
hitherto were State preserves. Another
example is to be seen in the recent
reorganisation of plans for the Northern
Territory. An expansion of development
is obviously needed there to suit local
conditions, but instead of creating a self-
governing State in the North to embrace
the Territory and perhaps some adjacent
parts of other States, the plan is merely
to create another department in Canberra
so that the Socialist Sixth of Australia
embodied in the Territory will be in-
creasingly governed from 2500 miles away
by people who know nothing about it.
The general trends are fully in accord
with “Labor” policy as shown by the
A.L.P. Federal platform, which planks
for the abolition of the Senate, leaving
Caucus only one House to control instead
of two, and depriving the States of their
direct representation. This scheme goes
with the proposed abolition of appeal
beyond the High Court, which, of course,
would be “packed” under the New
Order in keeping with the pretty definite
hints given by Messrs. Calwell, Rosevear
and Ward, and the centring in the single-
House Parliament of unlimited sovereign
power, including the power to create new
States or provinces with no other authority
than that delegated to them by the Com-
monwealth, as well as municipalities also
responsible to Canberra.
This destruction of the existing legisla-
ture, combined with the objective of
socialisation —indeed, it is laid down as
part of the scheme to bring about
socialisation —would produce nothing
short of a Soviet State. Indeed, that is
what it was intended to produce, if the
“Labor” conferences of 1921, which
drafted it, meant what they said. There
was ample debate when it was adopted by
the Federal A.L.P., during the course of
which Mr. R. S. Ross, one of the framers
of the new constitution, said that “quite
frankly, socialisation might mean nation-
alisation of industries and then control
by some sort of soviet system.” What
Mr. Darby Riordan said—“that industries
would be first nationalised and then
socialised and that under the new order
there would be a central governing body”
—amounted to the same thing. Mr.
Holloway declared that it was the cul-
mination of the teachings of Marx, and
Mr. Scullin concurred with Messrs.
Theodore and Catts, M.H.R., that the
supreme body would not eventually be
Parliament. Mr. Catts agreed with Mr.
Ross that the new system would be a
“soviet system.”
This seems to be what Australia has to
look forward to if the “Labor” party
gets its ultimate way in terms expressed
in its platform and objective—control of
all industries by workers’ boards, control
of the country by a sort of centralised
single-House soviet delegating its powers
to provincial councils and municipalities.
The danger of this is apparent from the
trends in legislation and from the
advocacy of various measures by both
“Labor” politicians and permanent
officials.
Recently the permanent head of the
Department of the Interior appeared
before the Canberra Advisory Council
and argued warmly that the city’s gov-
ernment can be better and more effi-
ciently administered by a centralised
Commonwealth department than by a
municipal body responsible to the rate-
payers, the reason offered being that
the department must have greater
resources and finer experts. This
is the kind of argument used by Hitler
and Stalin in favor of their regimes, and
it strikes a strange note in a Common-
wealth governed by a party which has
always claimed to support a down-to-the-
people democracy.
“Labor” already has a plan drawn
for a provincial system of government
to supersede the States. It was formu-
lated as far back as 1920. This provided
for 31 provinces with a minimum of 1000
electors (Papua) and a maximum of 540,000
in Greater Sydney, according to 1920
population figures. These provinces
could be no more than county councils
in status —municipal bodies, not States.
All except three were designed to have
populations of under 100,000, and nine
were to have under 50,000. They would
be completely subservient to the Federal
Soviet.
After just on half a century of Federa-
tion Australians are only now beginning
to acknowledge the wisdom of the Fathers
of the Constitution. The Federal system,
however, can only work efficiently where
the States are small enough to bring the
responsibility of government right home
to the electors as individuals and to
achieve proper regional representation,
according to local needs and interests, in
the Federal Parliament,
Mr. D. H. Drummond, M.L.A., one
of the best-known students of the relation-
ships between the Commonwealth and
States in Australia, has recently published
a pamphlet in which he has set out his
view of the case for the N. S. Wales
Constitutional League, which came into
existence as the result of a conference
held in Sydney earlier in the year. He
defines local self-government as “the
handling of State affairs by people in
an area sufficiently small to be effectively
governed and sufficiently large in re-
sources to accept the responsibilities of
State government.” And he advocates
the summoning of a national con-
vention to examine the case for resub-
division of Australia on this basis,
Some such step is already overdue.
Since the Commonwealth was founded
the population has increased twofold, and
has been redistributed in a manner which
the Fathers of the Constitution could
scarcely have foreseen. Recent events
have shown that the rights of citizens
distant from the capital of the Common-
wealth, no less than of some of the
States, need new safeguards. Apart from
anything else the geographical make-up
of some States in relation to their capitals
is ridiculous.
What, could be more absurd than the
position of Queensland, where the capital
and half the people are wedged down in,
one corner 1400 miles from the tip of
Cape York?
The Wheat-price Row.
What the British Socialists have dis-
covered in the wheat-price row with Aus-
tralia is that though the Australian
Socialists could be charmingly accommo-
dating at the Australian taxpayers’
expense by selling wheat at a cut price
(the notorious ss. 9d. a bushel) to the
Maoriland Socialists just before a N.Z.
election, they have no intention of selling
to British Socialists at a farthing below
the maximum price just before an Aus-
tralian election in which the wheat vote
will be important.
Practically every member of the Aus-
tralian Wheat Board has had a say as to
why Britain should pay the top price
(16s. 4d. Australian) under the Interna-
tional Wheat Agreement, but not one of
them so far has admitted that under that
same agreement Britain may offer, and
Australia may accept, a price anywhere
between the I.W.A. minimum of 12s. Bd.
and the maximum of 16s. Id. But, if
Britain offers the maximum, Australia is
compelled to sell a prescribed quantity of
the 1949-50 crop; if Australia offers
Britain wheat at the minimum Britain is
compelled to buy. There is nothing in
the I.W.A. that compels all trading to be
done at the maximum price.
The Wheat Board chaps keep on insist-
ing that Britain and India must pay the
top price—one of them even spoke of a
“10-day ultimatum” on pain of having
quotas cut. Meantime a “high Govern-
ment official” in Canberra asserted that
Australia was “not going to Start any
price-war in regard to wheat exports but
would stick to the 1.W.A.”
The plain truth is that devaluation and
its effect on wheat prices in the sterling
area have caught the British Socialists at
a time when they’re dredging the national
Treasury for every blessed farthing;
appeals for help to the Australian
Socialists have caught them just before
an election in which the partially socia-
lised wheatgrower still has a vote, and it
is not “Labor” policy to risk even one
vote at election-time. So the Australian
Socialists pass the buck to the Wheat
Board and the blame to the I.W.A.
For its part, the Indian Government
is “surprised and disappointed” by the
Australian stand—and in somp pain
points out that it didn’t take advantage
of devaluation to increase the price of
jute, cotton, textiles, oil-seeds and other
commodities to Australia.
Maybe the British are too apt to believe
things they hear. They’ve possibly heard
an echo of Mr. Chifiey’s speeches, in
which he has constantly referred to the
way in which Australian “Labor” has
helped Britain and intends to go on help-
ing her. With their economy in a state
of near-crisis it could be that they
expected to get their wheat a little below
the maximum price ; it could be that their
Government recalled the cheap-wheat
deal with Maoriland. If so, they’ve a
poor idea of the way of an Australian
“Labor” Government fighting an elec-
tion in which the swing is against it*


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Prosperity" by Inflation.
Professor Copland’s latest warning to
the Chifley Government was given before
Ihe Victorian Building Industry Congress
last week. The one-time senior adviser
to the Prime Minister on price-control
and post-war economic planning parted
brass-rags with the Chifley crowd since
inflation with them became the better
part of political valor. Copland, as
Minister to China, had a closer view of
the damage inflation can do than these
Socialist mountebanks appreciate.
He now says to them:
Australia is being caught in the most
extensive inflationary period it has ever
known, and a reckoning will come....
Costs, which have risen 30 per cent, in
the last four years, and are rising 10 per
cent yearly, will not be stopped by price-
control. There is no machinery in Aus-
tralia to hold them. . x u .
He did not think, he said, that the
inevitable drop” would mean unemploy-
ment, but present values would fall. In
housing, the war-time lag was not being
picked up. The annual target should be
100,000 homes; last year 52,000 were
completed.
Australia is by 10 per cent, less capable
of paying for necessary dollar imports than
before the war. England is 30 per cent.
more capable
We should not be importing steel from
the United States—we should be export-
ing it.
That is the verdict of Mr, Chifley’s
former economic expert, to whose words
the Canberra mob have been closing their
ears for the past three years. The only
remedy against inflated prices is higher
production. The only definite political
plan to increase production is that of
the joint Liberal-Country programme.
Chifley offers none.
Government “full-employment” goes
on getting bigger and broader every day.
The Associated Chambers of Manufac-
tures, seriously concerned with the Gov-
ernment’s draining of the country’s man-
power, reported last week that the
Federal payroll is mopping up hands at
the rate of 100 a day, and that at the
rate recorded for August last, when 2900
more Federal Government empldyees
were taken on, the Federal Government’s
total enrolment will reach 200,000—almost
one-third of all public in Aus-
tralia—by election-day. /
In the past three years of Chifleyism
the Commonwealth service has
been more than doubled^/ and the cost
of Federal administration more than
trebled. “Full employment” they call it!
Bert and Barton.
If Dr. Evatt takes a pack at an analysis
of voting figures in Jnis electorate put
out by the Liberal party he will have
reason to stick his chest out —for a while.
In 1946 the subdivisions now included in
Barton gave the B)oc. a majority of
11,112. Eight months later the “Labor”
men wooing the foljk in that area at the
N. S. Wales election could manage a
majority of only 41)52. No big general
swing against “Lab/or” occurred in N. S.
Wales during the/intervening period, so
Bert may well plume himself that the
difference was to his personal prestige.
This being so, /he can probably view
with equanimityl even the “adjusted” State
figures which inlcorporate so far as they
are applicable tme results of the Kogarah
by-election; tfhese show “Labor’s”
majority reduceid to 184.
There was ja referendum held con-
currently with | the 1946 election. Three
proposals were| put to the electors ; they
concerned (1) sfocial services, (2) organised
marketing, an|d (3) industrial employ-
ment. Like tliie one which preceded it
in 1944 and t|he one which followed it
in 1948, it coui/Id really be called an Evatt
referendum. | The social-services pro-
posals secured! the necessary majority of
votes in all St iates ; the second and third
proposals faileffd to do so. But in Barton
Dr. Evatt’s sujpporters rallied round their
chosen repre; tentative and recorded a
Yes” majori] ty on all three questions.
This, too, wdis doubtless taken by Dr.
Evatt as a volte of confidence in himself.
What happened in the next 18 months
is probably recorded in some of the less-
cherished volumes of the Evatt Press-
cuttings. It ir iduded the first of the High
Court reverse l //; on the Government’s bank-
Policy. ; ;t also included the passing
ot the Bank-G irab Act, during the debates
on which Djjr. Evatt, like every other
Federal “Labjlor” member, spoke in favor
ol bank-naticMnalisation. When the price-
re^e renc * um was held in May,
1948, the Barfhk Grab was under challenge,
but the Hi{ Court had not given its
decision. J he electors of Barton, who
nad approve >d of the Chifley-Evatt pro-
posals on imarketing and employment in
September, ] [945, turned down the price-
control pror losals in 1948 by a majority
of 9000 votes. The areas composing the
present Barton electorate turned them
down by 4452. The Evatt prestige was a
very tattered garment.
This may be the explanation for the
change in the Evatt election-technique
this year. Gone is the Citizen of the
World, the Champion of the Small
Nations, the man above mere local issues,
the man whom Barton was honored to
have as its representative. In his place
stands a “Labor” candidate who mouths
the same patter about full employment,
the same nonsense about the “Hytten
unemployment pool,” the same Abraham
Lincoln legend as the rest of the mob. It
almost seems as if Dr. Evatt realises that
his prestige vote is gone and that he must
stand or fall with the rest on “Labor’s”
record. At first glance that majority of
11,112 is very comforting. December 10
will show what proportion of it was a
tribute to the Evatt legend and how much
a genuine vote for “Labor”-Socialism.
Blood and Golden Chance.
“El Verdugo’s” battle report;
The single-House remnant of what used to
be the most dignified State Parliament in Aus-
tralia gave another sample in Brisbane last
week of how far Parliamentary government
can sink during a long-term attack of Socialism.
It arose when Mr. Bruce Pie, Mr. Chalk,
Mr. Wanstall and others asked the Attorney-
General, Mr. Devries, a number of questions
about curious happenings in the drawing of
State lotteries.
The questions largely concerned the opera-
tions of a partnership called Golden Invest-
ments, which had been founded in 1933 for
the purpose of selling Golden Casket tickets,
and of two apparent proprietors, Leslie Edgar
Gray and Doreen Clare Gray, Mr. Devries
gave the following information in answer to
Opposition questions:
Major prizes won by L. E. Gray or
D. C. Gray are: —£1009, Casket No. 749
of November 30, 1942, ticket number
98699, D. Gray, Box 1712, G.P.0., Bris-
bane (ticket sold by Kookaburra Agency);
£3OO, 954, July 9, 1945, 85754, D. C. Gray,
200 Hamilton-road, Hamilton (ticket sold
by Kookaburra Agency); £6OOO, 1241, June
16, 1948, 95776, D. C. Gray, Wyuna
Court, Point Piper, Sydney (ticket sold by
Golden Casket Office); £6OOO, 1367, July
8, 1949, 41249, Charleville Syndicate, c/-
Aikens Newsagency, Charleville; £2OOO,
1395, September 24, 1949, 41063, D. C.
Gray, Box 1712, G.P.0., Brisbane (ticket
sold by Golden Dragon Casket Agency).
It is not possible to obtain details of minor
prizes won by clients of Golden Invest-
ments,
There were a lot of questions about tickets
sold to one “D. C. Yarg,” of Charleville, and
the general trend of Opposition inquiry was
directed to obtain a satisfactory answer as to
whether or not tickets in transit were
bought in bulk by agencies and filled in after
the drawing of the lottery.
After the matter had become a major topic in
Brisbane Mr. Nicklin, leader of the Opposition,
asked for a Royal Commission on the general
conduct of the State lotteries, which the Acting-
Premier, Mr. Gair, refused. Mr. Collins,
Minister for Agriculture, then objected to a
remark by Mr. Bruce Pie. He accused Mr. Pie
of having suggested that if the Government
refused a Royal Commission it would “come
at anything.” Mr. Pie was suspended on the
motion of Mr. Gair for a couple of hours late
in the afternoon.
Later, according to a report in the “Brisbane
Courier-Mail,” he encountered Mr. Collins in
a room and (said the “Courier-Mail”) “eye-
witnesses” declared that Mr. Collins “im-
mediately rushed 15 feet across the room into
the passageway and punched Mr. Pie on the
lip.” Mr. Collins’s own account was that Mr.
Pie had called him “a skunk, and the lowest
of them all,” and that “If I didn’t knock his
teeth out it was unfortunate, because I intended
to do so it was a donnybrook-rules all-in
scrap.”
Whatever the facts, it was certainly the
greatest night in Queensland’s Parliament since
Dinny Keogh walked into the Chamber in his
nightgown 40 years ago.
The Speaker, Mr. Brassington, despite the
wealth of eyewitness evidence, found himself
unable to discover how the Collins-Pie contest
began and who was to blame. Mr. Pie sub-
sequently refused to apologise for his part in
the affray with Mr. Collins when ordered to
do so and named by the Speaker. But the
Acting-Premier showed no inclination to take
the action usual in such cases and move for
his suspension.
If the Government changes its mind and
does consent to an inquiry into Queensland’s only
profitable State business monopoly, it is to be
hoped that it will be wide and thorough enough
to produce convincing results. Also, that in the
terms of reference the Ministry will not forget
to include such items as whether Queensland
State Lottery tickets are being sold illegally
in other Australian States and in America.
Miners' Benefits.
According to a report of the last Cess-
nock (N.S.W.) Municipal Council meeting,
the Joint Coal Board is heavily subsidising
most of the council’s enterprises
£2500 towards the cost of a £6OOO baby-
health centre, £4074 for work on Aber-
dare Park recreation area, £3436 towards
the cost of Aberdare community centre.
Other Coal Board projects are buildings •
and fencing at North End Park, a sound-
shell on Bridges Hill, bowling-greens, a
central rest park, and drives, kerbing,
guttering and footpath-paving for Con-
vent Hill (“a scenic drive and pathway to
the Convent steps”) and around the
medical bureau.
All fine and dandy, but the miners
who have been holding the Australian
community to ransom by denying it
reserve coal stocks during the past three
years ought to be more grateful to tax-
payers and coal-consumers whose money
is providing these amenities.
When it is added, as Mr. W. G. Pooley
told the Co-operative Building Societies’
Conference in Sydney the other day, that
other help from the Joint Coal Board (still
using the general taxpayer’s money) is
also enabling the miner to buy for £740 a
house for which any other home-builder
would have to pay £looo—that this
special Father Christmas pays the cost of
miners’ plans, inspection fees, decorative
trees and shrubs in his garden, and a
monthly subsidy on each society share,
all for miners only—other questions begin
to arise. By all means let something be
done to improve coalfield housing ameni-
ties, but why should the Government
favor one section only of the working
community in this way, and that section
the most militant in the “class-war”
against the people whose custom keeps
the mining industry going?
Who Wonts a Telephone?
Anybody trying to support a telephone,
whether in the home or as part of a
business, and who had any lingering
doubts about the cost of'public utilities
under a Socialist set-up, must have had
them quickly dispelled when the telephone
account came in this month. All over
the place householders and business
secretaries have been walking round
hardly able to believe their eyes at the
increased phone charges, ranging as high
as 50 p.c.
It is, of course, one result of the stag-
gering collapse of post-office finances —
staggering because until the Chifley
Socialists got hold of it the post-office.
('Continued on next page.)
THE CHIFLEY POUND.


[For election matter Dav?
Mann, J. B. Blair and M. H.
George-street, Sydney, are re
Cecil
Adams,
Ellis, all of 252
risible.]
3 £
tr
&
9834
Craven 'A’ Quality means
smoking enjoyment
zt,— ‘*y
CRAVE NA
The largest selling cork-tipped cigarette in
the world.
CARRERAS LTD.
OVER 150
D
FD
was an outstanding example of a public
utility making a handsome profit. Under
any other Administration but the present
one it would still be showing profits.
The Chifley Budget showed that the
post-office earned £33.3 million in 1948-49
and spent £40.8 million, a loss of £7.5
million. It is estimated to earn (if it stays
under th& Socialists) £38.4 million this
financial year, spend £41.9 million and
lose £3.5 million. A loss of over £lO
million in two years is pretty good going,
even for Socialists, to whom money
doesn’t matter so long as it isn’t their
money. \
Current telephone accounts make it
clear that, to Chifley and Co., the post-
office is not a pujblic utility but a taxing
machine. An increase in cost of calls was
bad enough, seeing that the number of
calls must have multiplied enormously in
the past few years, tout to increase the rent
is the dizzy limit. \ Renting them at all
goes close to being a racket, since a
private individual who has had a phone
in the house for 10 years has bought the
thing over and over again,
A telephone in a house costs
£7 10s. a year in rem alone under the
benevolence of “Labor.” Cost of rent
and calls to hirers of telephones are both
increased, calls through public phones
have not been altered. \ This i s because
“Labor” supposes that all who haven’t a
telephone in the house /must necessarily
be “Labor” supporters. \ Thus the good
old Socialist game of taxing one section
to make it easy for another goes on—at
least until December 10. pet Mr. Chifley
has the gall to go abo it the country
unctuously talking about what he 11 do it
he discovers any monopoly operating to
the detriment of the people!
POLITICAL POINTS
Ten days to the tenth!
New Zealand goes to the polls today.
Peter Fraser won’t be the only Socialist
leader anxiously awaiting the result;
Chifley and Attlee will have a personal
interest in the score. In these days no
nation with a free vote can entirely insu-
late its electors against world trends, and
since 1946 the tendency in European
elections, in by-elections and local-govern-
ment polls in Britain and in State
general and by-elections in Australia
has been definitely away from the
Left. When Maoriland “Labor” last
faced the electors 10 of its members
retained their seats by fewer than
500 votes, Holland’s Nationalists have
only to win three of these seats while
retaining all their present holdings to
send “Labor” into Opposition for the first
time since 1935. Their task will be made
easier by the fact that ex-Minister Lang-
stone, who broke with “Labor” over con-
scription, is standing against the party
ticket for one of the Auckland seats.
Under the first-past-the-post system this
makes the National candidate an odds-
on favorite.
New Zealand Opposition-leader
Holland promised elderly women pen-
sioners £3 a week tax-free and no means
test. “Labor” Prime Minister Fraser
didn’t know whether to raise the ante or
condemn the scheme as impracticable.
Then he discovered a way out. The offer,
he found, was nothing less than a sinister
plot—“a scandalous proposition designed
to provide cheap labor for the wealthy.”
On Friday papers which had printed
the A.L.P. “Hytten-pool” advertisement
received letters from the professor’s
solicitors threatening legal action.
“Labor” propaganda thereupon switched
the libel to Menzies, producing a state-
ment alleged to have been made by him
at the Fremantle by-election in August,
1945; “A pool of unemployed is neces-
sary to discipline the workers.” Menzies
immediately denied having uttered that
statement or'anything like it. The sug-
gestion that any politician seeking .votes
would make such a statement is so ludi-
crous that it is doubtful whether the
most ardent Laborite would believe it,
let alone the allegedly intelligent “swing-
ing voters” at whom such stuff is aimed.
The obvious question is: “If ‘Labor’s’
propagandists had that piece of evidence
in their pockets all this time, why on
earth have they been wasting their powers
of distortion on Professor Hytten?”
For election purposes “Labor”
speakers, from Chifley and Evatt
downwards, have been pretending
that the 1930 depression lasted right
down to the outbreak of the war,
Harold Holt bowled this out by recalling
that in 1937 the trade-unions sought a
“prosperity loading,” and that P. J. Clarey,
pleading the case before the Arbitration
Court, said: “The period 1935 to 1937
shows practically the most spectacular
recovery ever witnessed.” While that
spectacular recovery was being made Mr.
Clarey’s colleagues were in Opposition at
Canberra and in most of the State Parlia-
ments.
Power blackouts occurred in several
Sydney suburbs last week. Machinery
breakdowns were the official reason given,
but Eddie Ward soon found another one
—the blackouts were deliberately engin-
eered by Liberal interests on the Sydney
County Council in order to affect
“Labor’s” election chances. McGirr’s
henchmen used the same story at the
time of the Kogarah and Concord by-
elections. The argument doesn’t reveal
very great faith in “Labor’s” grip upon
its supporters’ allegiance.
When Roy Morgan’s Gallup poll last
week published figures indicating a swing
against the Government there was a con-
certed howl from the ranks of “Labor.”
Protests ranged from cries of “It’s a
fake” and a suggestion that such polls
should be banned to statements drawing
cold comfort from the American polls’
miscalculation over Truman. Morgan’s
reply was to remind the squealers that
they had no complaints while his organi-
sation prophesied (accurately) majorities
for “Labor.”
Billy Sheahan, N. S. Wales Minister
for Lands and one of the few Socialist
Ministers game enough to speak his mind
without worrying what the party bosses
think —he criticised the McKell appoint-
ment on the ground that the Governor-
General should be an ex-serviceman —
doesn’t think much of the Abraham
Chifley build-up. He claims that the
Prime Minister has “captured the imagi-
nation of the Australian people,” but
“Frankly, I believe the Abraham Lincoln
and Will Rogers stuff has been overdone.”
Chifley probably holds a similar opinion
by now, but it is too late to do anything
about it. “Labor’s” propaganda machine
is rather a cumbersome vehicle, and once
it gets under way it’s pretty difficult to
pull it up. Besides, if the copy-writers
lose Lincoln’s whiskers all they’ll have
left will be the “Hytten-Menzies pool”
of their own digging, and that has been
shown to be pretty shallow —drying up
rapidly, in fact.
That Barton leaflet (B, 23/11/ ’49):
The Bulletin is informed that (a) the
alleged two-storied palace at Turramurra
is a one-story bungalow owned by Mrs.
Evatt; ( b ) the Astor flat is owned by
Mrs. Evatt; (c) the “Canberra mansion”
is a rented house.
Chifley has said some rather nasty
things about the medical profession be-
cause it refused to be conscripted into his
service—an attitude in which it was sup-
ported by the High Court. His latest
label for their action is “callous and most
inhumane.” That sort of talk is what
anyone has to expect who dares to oppose
the pet projects of Socialism, but one of
Chifley’s offsiders has come out with a
more definite charge. Senator Arm-
strong, who describes himself for electoral
purposes as a barman, though it must
be many a long day since he pulled a
pint, last week accused doctors of being
tax-dodgers. This, he said, was the reason
they would not consent to the free-
medicine scheme:
The doctors did not want to have to
record the name of every patient they
saw... .because we know the average
medical practitioner does not pay tax on
many of the fees paid by patients they
attend.
Armstrong didn’t name any specific
doctor who had bilked the tax-collector.
This is not surprising; he’s not too good
on names. On Saturday he spoke at
Blacktown, allegedly in support of the
“Labor” candidate for Mitchell, He
earnestly recommended his audience to
“Vote for Smith.” Those who try to
take his advice on polling-day will be a
trifled puzzled. “Labor’s” candidate for
Mitchell is named White,
In 1946 Calwell went to East Sydney
and told the electors how fortunate they
were to have a man like Eddie Ward to
represent them. Ward journeyed to Mel-
bourne and performed a similar service
for Arthur. But that was three years
ago ; this time the erstwhile bosom pals
are scratching their own backs.
The Socialist leaders are in a bad way
when they have to distort the truth in
order to raise cheers. At Bendigo Chifley
raised “roars of laughter” when he said,
speaking of the coal famine in Melbourne
last July:
After all the Hollway Government’s
bluster it was the Commonwealth Govern-
ment in the end which had to step in
and use the R.A.N. to unload the Hali-
gonian Duke.
The facts were that the Hollway Govern-
ment announced it would use other than
wharf-labor to get the “black” coal out
of the ship before Chifley decided to
shift the coal at grass in the northern
fields. Hollway then told Chifley that
if the Navy could not be instructed to
unload the Haligonian Duke he would
call for volunteer labor. Then Chifley
acted.
So much dust is being thrown in
people’s eyes just now that agricultural
experts have a job to convince them that
another dustbowl hasn’t developed out
where the west wind comes from.
Calwell told a Brunswick (Vic.) audi-
ence when dealing with the Gamboa and
O’Keefe deportation incidents that “If
we let in any U.S. citizens, we will have
to admit U.S. negroes. I don’t think any
mothers and fathers want to see that.” Of
course, if the stoush-house bosses want
to bring in some American negro pugs,
the feelings of mothers and fathers won’t
be considered. “Sport” must be kept
within reach of the “worker.”
Nobody can be firmer than a Socialist
when it comes to keeping things dark.
The British gang, invited to appoint a
commission of inquiry into the colossal
white-elephant of the African peanut-
growing scheme, became very heated
about it, and Food Minister Strachey de-
clared it was ridiculous to say the thing
had lost £23 million, when there were
railways, roads, water-supplies and so
forth to show for it. Australians know a
bit about railways, water-supplies, etc.,
like that and, like the British people,
aren’t satisfied with a handful of peanuts
to show for if.
The secrecy that surrounds the African
peanut venture covers also the Socialist
sorghum farm at Peak Downs in Queens-
land, All sorts of excuses have been put
out about the sorghum that didn’t grow ;
nobody can find out what the scheme cost.
That handy newly-published guide to
the “Labor” party’s efforts to introduce
socialisation by a back-door, Ellis’s The
Garden Path, recalls a resolution of the
Australian Communist party conference
of 1943:
The aim of the Communist party is
Socialism The Curtin Government must
carry through the plans to amend the
Constitution to give the Federal Govern-
ment power to amend Parliament’s power
to carry out reconstruction.
Also these gems from the “Labor” party’s
official organ, the “Standard”:
1943. Labor needs a mighty State
combine of credit institutions, factories,
farms, transport and co-operative distribu-
tion that will ensure the victory 9f the
socialistic tendencies of our economic life.
May, 1945. The Labor party does not
consider the Communist party a political
menace. It is not the purpose of the
Labor party to disrupt the trade-union
movement by fighting a guerrilla war with
Communists for official positions in the
unions. Who unions appoint to official
positions is not the affair of the Labor
party.
A.L.P. industrial groups, please note!
When this was printed the Queensland
Golden Casket row was still going on,
with the Opposition demanding an in-
quiry into the running of this State
gambling outfit and the agents who make
thousands out of it, and the Government
determined to hug to its bosom whatever
secrets there may be. A charming note
entered the fury of words when somebody
described it as a “four-million-pound
industry,” though whether he meant the
Casket or the ticket-selling business isn’t
clear.
Although one is as easily broken as
the other, the difference between a poli-
tical promise and a pie-crust is that with
a pie there’s always something under the
crust.
Cheapjack stuff from a cheapjack poli-
tician —Finnan, M.L.A., speaking at Gos-
ford in support of Williams, struggling
hard to hold the Robertson seat for
“Labor”:
Compulsory training would interfere with
“Labor’s” programme for more produc-
tion. Instead of being forced to march
around the streets under some brasshat
dummy major and spend half their time
playing soldiers, men would, under
“Labor,” be in full-time productive jobs.
No one has ever accused Finnan (born
1897) of playing soldiers, either for fun
or keeps.
A few months ago a spokesman for a
group of pensioners approached Senator
McKenna with what he thought was a
reasonable suggestion. He pointed out
that the basic wage varied in different
cities in accordance with the varying
price-levels —Sydney, for instance, having
a higher basic wage than Launceston. His
idea was that some such system could be
evolved for the old-age pension so that
pensioners in all parts of the Common-
wealth would receive the same value for
their pension. “Different rates in dif-
ferent places!” said McKenna. “We
couldn’t do that. We’d have people shift-
ing to another city to get the higher rate.”
“In that case why aren’t they all shifting
to Launceston?” asked the caller. The
Senator couldn’t answer that one.


-the first
battery was an
EXIDE.
ignition
—the . first lighting
battery was an
EXIDE.
I
—the first starting,
lighting and ignition
battery was an EXiDE.
EXIDE
BATTERIES
v ■■ ; ;
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD,
i:
44
.vi.O'.vi.-.t ;iv,.
BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
MAKE
SMM
PERSONAL ITEMS
There is one night in the life of Dr.
Allan Ashworth, Brisbane’s new City
Medical Officer, he will not forget while
he lives—that infamous night of
November 14, 1940, when Goring’s
minions blitzed Coventry. There with his
own home splintered, Ashworth was in
charge of hospitals, stretcher ambulances
and first-aid posts. The night was bad
enough, with over 600 killed and
thousands injured, but his worst time was
to come, when the savaged city was for
five days without water, and weeks with-
out gas and sewerage. Later, in Surrey,
he had his share of flying-bombs. Of the
two, ths doc. preferred the big raids —
they at least packed up some time or
other. He brings with him diplomas of
Public Health and of Tropical Medicine ;
also his wife —she, too, is a doctor.
There have been centuries of wings in
the family of Wing-commander H. C.
Harrison, superintendent of airworthiness
and aeronautical engineering in the
Department of Civil Aviation in Mel-
bourne. His father was one of the last
of the traditional old English millers,
and he himself was born at a famous mill
of old England—Mill House, Sprowston,
Norfolk. What it looked like can be
seen in the pictures of Constable and
Old Crome. Harrison’s father made
bread from millstone flour, retaining the
vitamins that modern roller-milling
extracts and gives to the pigs. Harrison
and brothers were millers, too, but gave
it up, and, being an expert on wind-
mills, he went into aeronautics, to give
distinguished service on the technical
side of the new wind-machines in the
R.A.F. and later the R.A.A.F., when he
came to Australia in 1911. Phoenix
House, London, has just published his
The Story of the Sprowston Mill with
illustrations by Melbourne artist Graham
Nesbit. Nesbit’s pictures are so highly
valued that they have been placed on
exhibition in the South Kensington
Museum, along with a model of the
Sprowston Mill, which was destroyed by
fire in 1933.
Maoriland’s new Director-General of
Health, Dr. John Cairney, has been
associated with the Wellington Public
Hospital since 1941, first as medical
superintendent and later as superinten-
dent-in-chief. Outstanding in hospital
administration, he was on a Government
panel of six experts to consider the
establishment of a .commission to run
M.L.’s hospitals. A teacher of operative
surgery at Otago University, and research
worker in the U.S. as a Fellow of the
Rockefeller Foundation, Dr. Cairney ties
up with the Anatomical Society of Great
Britain as a member, and the Royal
Society of Medicine, London, as a Fellow,
One of the major mysteries of N.S.W.
Conservatorium of Music is how Marshall
E. Cram, organising secretary of the Aus-
tralian Music Examinations Board, man-
ages to wedge his way in and out of the
chair in his pint-size office of that not-
too-small edifice without bringing head-
long the enormous piles of documents
which perpetually surround him. Per-
haps it’s because of all the practice he gets.
Cram has been with the Con. for 32
years. When he started, about 400
students in N.S.W. sat for their music
exams. Today examiners go all over the
Slate to put more than 22,000 aspiring
singers and instrumentalists through their
paces, and the working-out of this com-
plicated matter is the particular pigeon
of the genial Cram. He also handles
the business side of the Conservatorium
Opera School, which, under Eugene
Goossens and Hilda Mulligan, has made
encouraging strides in the past year or
two, reaching a high standard with the
presentation of Verdi’s scintillating
“Falstaff” last year. Mozart’s “The
Marriage of Figaro” is now in its six-
night season, and the smoothness of the
front-of-the-house arrangements and the
increasing support the public is giving
these ventures bear testimony to Cram’s
live-wire management.
Last week George Anderson, master-
printer of the Melbourne printing-house
which shares his name, received his Doc-
torate of Letters. But then, the white-
haired Scot, who started in Australia a
compositor, already tagged six other
degrees after his name, all won through
night-work; Bachelor of Arts, Master of
Arts, Bachelor of Law, Master of Law,
Bachelor of Commerce and Master of
Commerce. His Fixation of Wages, pub-
lished in 1929, is still used as a reference
for Arbitration Court judgments on in-
dustrial disputes. After night study the
amazing chap turned to study of the
night, and, though he’s travelled widely,
he claims to know more of the moon
than of this planet. His degrees merely
absorbed his mental energy —astronomy
is his passion.
Victoria has acquired three new K.Cs.
j n one bunch Gregory Gowans comes
f Boulder (W.A.), and was educated
Qn goldfie^ s an £ at the Univ ersities
p erdl and Melbourne. He appeared
Commonwealth in the banking
1 ~
£ ase Jn tbe H . winnp i, e ~ son
hour-week case. H. A. Winneke, a son
Winneke, graduated in
“ ei rAT P and Tt,^w^ Cap ori"
briefs stacc hasten the Cos-
*llS , T
fb° oAe? o'nhe trio, D I. hails
f ' Menzies w^s secretary to the
Committee of the Chiefs-of-Staff
during the war years, and in the recent
Council appeal on the Banks case
, Sr David Maxwell Fyfe,
ry ** 1 i 1 .
KC - counse J * or r ,he M ‘ " S banks ' H
> s » cousl " ot R G - Menzies.
There will be plenty of still-serving old-
timers who remember their address as the
wall-like sides and echoing hangars of
H.M.A. seaplane-tender Albatross, now
migrant ship Hellenic Prince, due here
shortly from Italy—one of them, Corn-
mander Henry Chesterman, R.A.N., pre-
sented here in tropical whites by Lambart,*
was at one time her observer. A specialist
in that peculiar branch of blue-water
service, Chesterman got his experience in
the old carriers Eagle (the first in which
a beck-landing at sea was made) and
Furious before transhipping to Aus-
traiian_built Albatross. With the ship
pay i n g. o ff and sailing for England as part-
payment for cru iser Hobart just before
World War 11, the observer (as well, of
course> a pro perly qualified executive
officer ) too k on staff duties, and was staff
o fg cer operations to the captain-in-charge,
OBSERVER IN ALBATROSS.
Sydney, when the war-gong sounded.
From Sydney on to Darwin, as senior
staff officer, whence, after two years in
that Jap-attended hotspot, he shifted to
the operations division of the Allied naval
forces commander in the s.-w. Pacific.
Here, in the hub of all the hubbub, he
had ample scope to indulge his passion,
naval history, on which subject an essay
of his once rated a prize from the
Admiralty. Now he’s anchored in Bris-
bane, as Resident Naval Officer.
To anthropologist Professor A. P.
Elkin, here victimised by Dubois, abo.
camps in the wild Kimberleys and
Arnhem Land are completely familiar
ground. Beginning his field work in 1927
with 12 months of picking up bits of
knowledge of abo. life and customs, he
changed scene to the deserts of the Red
Heart, before making Arnhem Land his
stamping-ground, through the swamps,
gullies and coasts of which he has
travelled more than most men. Elkin
admits his discoveries result almost as
much from luck as from applied science ;
for instance, that Binghi has been making
his own pottery along Arnhem’s coasts
OBSERVER OF ABOS.
was revealed accidentally in a tribes-
man’s song. Speaking of songs, the pro-
fessor was first to record abo. chants on
a wire-recorder—on one of his recent ex-
peditions to the Mainoru country, north
of the Roper. He was the motive force
behind the Berndt ambulation through
Arnhem Land, which resulted in the ex-
hibition of native art in Sydney last
month. On that subject, Elkin produces
this month, with Sydney University back-
ing, his book Art in Arnhem Land. It’s
not, of course, his first, by a long shot —he
owns to a pile of publications, mainly
putting Binghi’s case, has edited
“Oceania” since 1933, and for the past 15
years (in between north-bound migra-
tions) has warmed the Chair of Anthro-
pology at Sydney University.
“L.H.8.”: Passed on last week, Colonel
William Henry Donald, for the past 30
years a practising medico of Sydney
suburb Strathfield. Born in Townsville
(Q.), he was schooled at Townsville
Grammar and Sydney University—rowing
blue in 1912 and 1913 and a ’Varsity
rifle-shot. Shortly after graduating in
1914 he was off with the Bth Field
Ambulance, A.1.F., shifted to the 7th,
as R.M.O. to the 25th Battalion, and
eventually became D.A.D.M.S. Ist Anzac
Corps under Birdwood. Invalided out
early in 1918, the doctor continued serving
with the A.M.F., obtaining his colonelcy
and appointment as medical-officer to
the Coronation Contingent in 1937. He
was, as well, a director of Peters Ice-
cream, and a fine fellow in every way ;
blunt, forthright and somewhat impatient
with fools ; a tiger of persistence when
a patient’s life was at stake. Overwork
in his practice and as a World War II
m.o. were large factors in his death, at 63.
Remembered for a cheeriness to
match his bulk, Kenneth Alfred Greene,
till June this year Canadian High Com-
missioner in Canberra, now titles him-
self Consul-General in New A
fighter with the Canucks in France in
World War I, in the next chairman of
the committee charged with caring for
British refugee children, he is the second
Canadian consul-general in New York
since the post was established in 1943.
Looking as sun-drenched as his pic-
tures, Rex Battarbee, who started an abo.
Renaissance somewhere between Her-
mannsburg Mission and the Alice, is
showing another Jot of watercolors at
Melbourne Athenaeum. Battarbee is now
on two committees looking after the in-
terests of two native artists, Namatjira
and Pareroultja. His first care a few
years ago was getting Namatjira off the
damper. The unsophisticated Albert
thought it white-man’s food; excessive
addiction to it was causing him to run to
adipose tissue. Another problem for
Albert’s committee was the appearance of
the. forger, a compliment paid to every
master since Rembrandt. One such is said
to have been making a handsome business
out of coralling a few natives, giving them
cheap paints and brushes and getting them
to turn out alleged landscapes, which are
sold to tourists. Battarbee graduated
from Warrnambool State school into
farming, served two years with the A.I.F.
in France and was severely wounded.
While practising commercial art in Mel-
bourne he took trips to the Centre with
friend John Gardiner—it was on these
expeditions that he turned his camel-boy
into painter. Battarbee returns to the
Alice, where he is building himself a
house. An overseas publisher has com-
missioned him to write a history of
Namatjira.
“F.D.R.P.” (Jo’burg): Brigadier-
General T. Rose Price, C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
Croix de Guerre, who has passed on at
70 in London, was a son of that Colonel
Tom Price who founded the Victorian
Mounted Rifles and the Victorian Rangers
in 1885. Colonel Price had for father
Captain Price, who was superintendent
of convicts and was murdered by them
at Williamstown (Vic.), and who had the
dubious honor of being cast as the villain
in For the Term of His Natural Life.
Born in India, Rose Price was a Mel-
bourne C. of E. Grammar product; from
there he passed through Sandhurst, joined
a British regiment and shipped to India,
serving there till the formation of the
Welsh Guards in 1915, when he was
appointed 2/i,c. He finished that war
brigadier-general, and retired. In the
next war he pulled his weight effectively
in blitzed London’s civil defences. Now
one son, Lieut.-Col. Robin Rose Price,
carries on the Army tradition, also in
the Welsh Guards, while the other, Denis,
is the well-known film actor with the
Rank organisation. One of the General’s
two brothers was killed at the Landing
while a Royal Navy commander ; present
writer is the other, and has been in
Africa since he first saw it during the
Boer War.
Into the Silence;
At 65, in Melbourne, Dr. Mark Gardner,
front-rank specialist in eye diseases. A Mel-
bourne Grammar product and triple blue from
Trinity College, the doctor won M.C. in the
East Africa fighting in the first world war,
and in the next was consulting ophthalmic
surgeon to the A.M.F.
In Dunedin (M.L.), at 76, J. W. Scurr, who
prospected on West Australian and Klondyke
goldfields before joining the Scottish Light
Horse for service in the Boer War, where he
was wounded. A daughter, Mrs. R. Roberts,
is in Sydney theatricals and radio.
In Chicago, at 48, Professor Erich Heymann,
Associate Professor in Physical Chemistry at
Melbourne University and distinguished Euro-
pean chemistry researcher. Born in Frankfurt
(Germany), educated there and in Munich, he
returned to Frankfurt to lecture in physical
chemistry, had a three-year period at University
College, London, then joined Melbourne Uni-
versity. He held the Grimwade Prize and Smith
Memorial Medal for chemical research, and at
the end was working on electro-chemical solu-
tions at Chicago University.
In Greenslopes Military Hospital (Q.), Lt.-
Colonel Daniel Robert Glasgow, M.C., M.B.E.
He fought in the Boer War and in both World
Wars.
In Brisbane, at 61, Frederick Eager, chairman
of directors of one of the State’s oldest and
biggest motor-firms. Born in Ohio (U.S.A.),
but an Australian subject for many years, he
first came to Queensland as Willys-Overland
representative, then joined his father’s firm
when it was established in Brisbane in 1912.
Rejected for World War I service through
poor eyesight, he went on to establish motoring
records between Brisbane and Toowoomba and
Sydney and Brisbane. A big-game fisherman in
his spare time, he held the Queensland shark
record with a 1941 white-shark catch scaling
13241 b.
At Subiaco (W.A.), Miss Margaret Battye,
barrister and solicitor; the only woman bar-
rister in Perth with her own practice. A 1931
product of Westralia’s University, she was
admitted to the Bar two years later, and in-
dulged her driving energy in presidency of
several women’s movements. As well, she was
one of the first vice-presidents of the State
Liberal party, and was its representative at the
first Federal Council meeting in Sydney.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Uco”: Perth has been conjecturing on
what might have happened if it hadn’t
been caught. In the electoral notices as
advertised in the “West Australian” the
returning-ofiicers for two electorates,
Fremantle and Curtin, solemnly stated
that they were calling for nominations on
the authority of a writ issued by “His
Royal Highness, the Governor-General.”
No sooner had the notices appeared than
the phones started ringing as Perth’s
more observant citizens hastened to point
out that the present Laird of Yarralumla
rated only “His Ex.” Corrected notices
were published, but supposing no one had
complained? It seems to me that the
Court of Disputed Returns would have
had a couple of cases on its hands after
December 10. As there is no such person
as “H.R.H. the G.G.,” an election could
not be authorised by him, and if it is not
authorised it can’t be held, and if it can’t
be held it can’t be won, and if it can’t
be won it can’t be lost, and if . . . Any-
way, that’s roughly how they’re arguing
along St. George’s-terrace.
* * * *
“Macann”: Tacking another hundred
years or so on to it, there seems a cer-
tain contemporary aptness in Hazlitt’s
“I know —but I promised her.”
concluding comment on the now current
“Much Ado About Nothing”:
Dogberry and Verges in this play are
inimitable specimens of quaint blundering
and misprisions of meaning; and are a
standing record of that formal gravity of
pretension and total want of common
understanding, which Shakspeare no doubt
copied from real life, and which in the
course of two hundred years appear to
have ascended from the lowest to the
highest offices in the State.
In the gentle words of another of them:
“O! Mr. Cromek, how do ye do?”
* * * *
“Unicorn”: Away from it all? Had
a friend who tried to escape. Mentally
sick of city racket and physically sick
through lack of sleep and “city nerves,”
she sold her city property and migrated
to a lonely hill-top in search of quiet.
There were no neighbors, no traffic, no
radios, no screaming children, clanging
trams, shrieking motor-horns, pneumatic-
drills or loudspeakers. It worked all right
for a week, then a cross-country airline
changed its route overnight so that planes
zoomed over her lonely hideout. The
service is regular, the noise shattering,
and my friend now wonders where she
can retreat in search of the one thing the
20th century apparently can’t offer.
* * * *
“G. 1.8.”: “It looks very nice, very
smart,” I said when the wife called at the
office to display the hat she’d just bought.
“Er —how much?” “That’s the best part
—only 50 shillings!” After she left I
casually asked the pair of bright young
things who adorn my office whether they
considered £2 10s. dear for a hat.
“Heavens! Yes!” they chorused. “But,”
said I, “it’s one with feathers and veiling
and things—you know.” “Oh, we thought
it was for you. That’s cheap!” And
never did I pursue a vainer argument than
questioning the proposition that a man’s
lid, expected to last for years, was dear
at £2 10s., while a woman’s, to be worn
perhaps 20 times for only one season, was
a bargain.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Laetitia”: During the compilation of
a history of a Queensland rural district
I met a scion of one of the State’s
oldest pastoralist families who, in regard
to reticence relative to a forebear’s spell
in chokey, was the antithesis of “Hell-
dud’s” gentleman (B. 16 /11/ ’49). The
squatter grandsire’s durance vile sprung
not from felony or misdemeanor but the
gallantry which led him to horsewhip a
Government official who had allegedly
spoken slightingly of a lady. For taking
the law into his own hands the pioneer,
himself a justice, was arraigned before
his brother magistrates and fined £lO, in
default six months in Sydney jail. On
principle he decided to serve the sentence.
From Kilkivan, in the Wide Bay division
of the Moreton Bay district, he went by
dray to Maryborough in the custody of
troopers and the company of an honorary
and volunteer escort in the persons of a
squatter sextet, which boarded the ship
with him. Whilst the chivalrous one
languished behind the stone walls for six
mopths his mates ruined their healths by
conscientiously drinking his. On his re-
lease they feted him in Sydney and
formed his guard-of-honor on the
triumphal ship-and-dray return journey
to his home district of Kilkivan.
* l * * *
“Sixenate”: “Helldud” (B. 16/11/’49)
can rest assured; those records of the
Supreme Court are now securely housed
in special rooms in the library at Long
Bay, where, when that institution was first
built, provision was made for keeping all
the prison records securely locked away
from public view; the right to inspect is
only given for exceptional reasons. The
records include everything from those of
the First Fleet to present times. At one
time white-ants threatened the volumes;
but the little fifth-columnists were caught
in time. But while, 50 years ago,
descendants of people who arrived as
lags were very touchy about any reference
to convict origins, views upon the matter
have changed greatly. Sixth- and seventh-
generation Australians are beginning to
develop a pride in long family associa-
tions yith die country, and don’t mind a
bit mentioning that one, or several, of
“I’m just breaking her in.”
their ancestors arrived wearing chains
which weren’t holding watches. There
may yet be a demand for the original
records to be more easily accessible.
* * * *
“A.W.”: Suspected snake supplied by
art (B. 2/11/ ’49). This recalls the story
of Charles Dickens’s well at Gadshill. He
thought there was something wrong with
the water and sent an expert down to in-
vestigate. Expert reported that there was
nothing there to taint the water, but
Dickens was not satisfied and sent him
down again with the same result. As
Dickens was still resolute, the man went
home for dinner and returned to the job.
This time he emerged from the well with
the corpse of a cat, and Dickens was
triumphant. Of course the clever chap
had taken the dead cat down with him.
So everybody was happy,
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: Press photographs (B.
16/11/ ’49) can be both benign and bane-
ful. On the occasion of the posh wedding
of my neighbor’s lass the bridal ■ party
faced a barrage of Press cameras on the
parental lawn. In the too-revealing sun-
light of a Brisbane mid-afternoon the
nether limbs of the lasses were so starkly
silhouetted, as to convey a probably fal-
lacious impression that, in their excite-
ment, they had omitted foundation gar-
ments from their wardrobes. My amateur
shot, when developed, revealed the
bifurcated and decidedly ungraceful out-
lines, yet in the pictures published in the
Sunday papers the seeming omission of
under-garments had been gallantly
remedied. The other side: A professional
man among my acquaintances has dis-
played in his rooms a pictorial libel with
himself as a subject. The photo is a re-
production of a sporting cameraman’s
shot of a Rugby incident in which the
subject turns towards a cowering
opponent a diabolical countenance,
horrible with the concentrated hate of
centuries. An uplifted hand leaves no
doubt as to malicious intent. The actual
incident wa§ entirely unremembered by
the try-getting villain of the picture and
his would-be tackier, whose shrinking
pose was actually the take-off of a flying.,
tackle.
* * * *
“Ceg”: “Shamuseen’s” par. about the
young man chewing up whisky glasses
would remind many Melbourne readers
of a gentleman who, about 25 years ago,
used to put on a show on a vacant allot-
ment in Bourke-street. He “worked”
with his shirt wide open at the neck, pre-
sumably in much the same way as con-
jurers who roll up their sleeves to show
there is no deception. He used to com-
mence his performance by lowering a
fair-sized watch, on a chain, right down
his throat and then invite some member
of his audience to listen to the watch
ticking inside him. Then he passed on to
more spectacular stunts swallowing
handfuls of dry sawdust and biting off
pieces of coal briquette, crunching it up
and then gulping it down. Next came
glass-eating: small tumblers were
chewed up and swallowed with apparent
relish. Then the piece de resistance.
For £1 he offered to eat a beer-bottle. I
never saw anyone hand over the quid, but
no doubt he cpuld have managed the
bottle quite comfortably. Perhaps the
sawdust laid a good foundation on tvhich
the splintered glass could rest. He finished
up in the Melbourne Hospital, where they
found he had “something wrong with his
stomach.” I fancy it was the end of him.
* * t * *
“Mo Mi Ca : Taswegian’s” par. on
tapioca (B. 9/11 / ’49) brings back
memories 10 of us and Mum swearing
our stomachs were like “bottomless
wells,” never filled. Once a week a huge
pie-dish of tapioca pudding finished the
meal. Two of my brothers managed
always to reach base before the rest of
us and would watch us at our pudding.
They’d give us the works. “Huh! How
can you eat that stuff? Lizard’s eggs!
Fancy eating lizard’s eggs!” We of the
less squeamish stomachs and strong
appetites ate stolidly, but one brother and
sister were bluffed, their pudding being
second helping for those of us who
backed up. To this day the two refuse
tapioca pudding. Lizard’s eggs, uh-h!
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: As one who is accus-
tomed to taking a mild flutter now and
then I must admit X am baffled by the in-
consistency of the church in objecting to
cards, housie and other gentle forms of
gambling. After all the church not only
gives its approval to the biggest lottery of
them all, but actively supports it even to
the extent of frowning upon those of its
flock who patronise the Registry Office
instead of having a church wedding.
$ * ♦ *
“Old Bricky”: “Old Carp’s” yarn
about building a sheet of glass across the
flue (B. 16/11/’49) is a traditional joke
in the building trade, but I doubt if it was
ever more than that. Such a ruse would
never have acted with the old-time
builder or architect; they would have
condemned the chimney if daylight could
be seen up it. Architects invariably
specified: “Flues to be crooked,
with easy bends, so as to hide light.”
The theory was (and is still indisputable)
that the flue bent between arch and
ceiling “pulled” better than a straight
one, prevented down-draughts, and
stopped rainwater from falling directly on
the fire. In these days of damp-trays to
prevent rain from reaching the flue, and
modern methods of creating draught, the
crook is not always regarded as essential,
but many architects still specify it. I
recently struck a case where the bricky
played foul because the architect insisted
on a crooked flue. We found he had
“hidden light” all right—by building a
paper cement-bag across the straight flue.
* * * *
“Cuchulain”: The sulphur cure (B.
9/11/ *49) was much in use as a disinfect-
ant for sickrooms and as a germicide in
my grandparents’ days. A shovelful of
coals with a handful of sulphur flung
thereon was carried about the bed and
person of patients and was guaranteed
to set everyone in the house coughing
and eyestreaming. One of the worst
plagues in those days was diphtheria;
sulphur may have accounted for the
saving of some lives.
* * * *
“Ferdi”: In Sydney at present are three
men who know what it means to have
time on their hands. Skilled Indian
joiners, they were sent from Fiji to Pit-
cairn Island in June, 1948, to build a new
schoolhouse. Their job completed, there
was nothing for them to do but wait for
transport to take them home again.
Several westbound ships were contacted
by the island’s small radio-transmitter and
asked to give the tradesmen a passage.
After they had drawn several blanks the
new Burns-Philp liner Braeside took them
off on October 30. Out of 15 months on
Pitcairn, six were spent in complete idle-
ness ; a nice slice of waiting-time that
should appeal to any good unionist. In-
tending aspirants are warned, however,
that beer and ’baccy are taboo on
Pitcairn.
CHIFLEY’S POOL OF MUD.
“Professor Hytten having quoted the London
‘Economist’ at a Science conference, Mr. Chifley,
Dr. Evatt and ‘Labor’ advertisements charged the
professor with being an advocate of six to eight
per cent, pools of unemployment.”
When Cally prophesied about the dirt
That might in coming weeks be thrown and
written.
His reference must have been to Ben and Bert
And how they meant to treat Professor
Hytten,
Dragging his name through the electoral sludge
As If they took him for a High Court judge.
But, speaking of the normal six to eight
Per cent, of workless found in free society—
Which the Professor didn’t advocate —
Ben made no mention, such his shy propriety,
Of his own coalfields effort, far more weighty —
Sixty per cent. —or was it nearer eighty?
Old-fashioned statesmen, trained to keep wheels
turning,
Would have gone out immediately for coal,
But Chif the Stoker kept the home fires burning
By throwing all the workers on the dole,
Knowing, in time, they’d boil the nation over
And steam the striking miners back to cover.
How well it worked! The only working thing
In that epitome of Golden Ages,
It cost —a matter scarce worth mentioning—
The workers thirty million pounds in wages:
Dismissable, like workers, very briefly—
What’s thirty million to a man like Chifley?
For he’s no common six- or eight-per-center,
Pondering theories learned and ethereal;
Ben is a practical experimenter,
And human beings are his raw material:
For us, who after all are just nobodies,
It’s nice to think we’re useful in his studies.
He’s working out a scheme to cure depressions,
Useless, perhaps, but bound to be quite witty,
So send him back to more Canberra sessions:
To interrupt him now would be a pity:
Unless he can complete our degradation,
How can he go about our reclamation?
N.S.W.
SWILLIAM.


“Alfie Ostrich”; I must protest against
an insult to my tribe, displayed at present
on every tram in Sydney With a picture
of one of our family standing with head
buried in sand appears the message
“Don’t be an ostrich. Pay your fare.”
I’ll overlook the silly head-in-sand fable ;
we have long ceased trying to scotch that
—but I can’t let Mr. Winsor get away
with the libellous suggestion that
ostriches are scalers. Taking us all round
I don’t suppose you’d find on honester
bird anywhere than the ostrich, especially
when it comes to paying for public trans-
port. The carelessness of the sparrow in
this respect is so well-known that the term
sparrow’s ticket” has become a by-
word. Why doesn’t the notice say “Don’t
be a sparrow”? There would be some
point in that. But to malign the finest
race of birds that ever ... I will say no
more, except to issue this challenge. Show
me one case—just one —where an ostrich
has ever been caught riding on a tram
without paying his fare. Show me one
case, and I’ll admit that I’ve spent my
whole life with my head buried in the
sand.
* * * *
“Bo”: As a practising moralist who
has long been saddened by continued
evidence of the eagerness of weak sisters
to steep themselves in sin—and what
better barometer could one have than the
“Careful of your voice, Charles! Remember what happened to
Mr. Menzies !”
sober descriptions accompanying pictorial
advertisements proclaiming coming Holly-
wood opuses?—l cannot but rejoice in
observing a change of heart. Where only
a few wejjks ago one particular blonde
concentration of t.n.t. was going her
usual way to perdition (“with the cling-
ing embrace of those maddeningly volup-
tuous arms, under the sultry spell of her
bitter-sweet lips, her victims were
helpless! ”), this week she has at last seen
the light. Scorning the advances of a
leering gangster with blazing eyes and
outstretched hand, she delivers her
moderately - phrased attestation of
righteousness (“You evil beast, you’ll never
drag me down to your OWn Cesspool of
, crptfino what’s rnminn tn
iniquity yOU TC getting WUat S coming lO
you!! ”). Yet another, a redhead whose
character as late as the last celluloid flop
was summed up with such restraint by
hhirh man (“Her unleashed nassions
me Dluro-man ( Tier umeasnea passions
scorched and withered men! ), can this
week be observed, completely reformed
(“Her virgin soul revolted as she gazed
v• d b
deep into ms smouldering eyes ana De
held the awful evidence of his guilt ! ! ! ).
Who knows? Perhaps same evangelical
j n q uence h as CO me upon the fillum
,
moguls.
* * * *
“Cauboy’s” impression of “Macbeth”
as put over the air by the Stratford-on-
Avon Players:
Stripped of its traditional trappings and seen,
so t 0 S p e ak, in the nude, the play seemed to
bear about the same relation to life as a Royal
Academy historical painting. The sanguinary
tale cou i d have been paralleled in any gangster
fii m - there are none of the great thoughts in it
that we find in some of the plays, or, if there
are, t fie Stratford players mouthed them into
pretentious nonsense. Did any listener feel
desperately concerned about the plight of
Macbeth and his lady? I didn’t. Anthony
Quayle may have said he was in trouble, but
he didn’t make me feel it as Olivier did with
Richard, and he didn’t make me think of a
king, a murderer, or even of a man, but only
an ac t or ; nor did j find my heart bleeding
at the woes described by Diana Wynyard. The
witches were more comic than horrifying, and
the performance in general didn’t terrify me
half as much as a “Crime Does Not Pay” film
j once saw | n w hich the actors were ordinary
blokes and the story was about hit-and-run
driverS- It was done so well that one could
really feel its horror, but the Stratford-on-Avon
Players only made me think of professors of
dramatic art and academies for teaching Shak-
spearian elocution.
’ „ , T . . ,
Mullum : Th a t Inishm n who
addressed his remarks chiefly to those
who were not present (B. 2/11/ 49) was
the opposite to our parson. Over a good
many years I have never heard him
P rea . c b a Christmas sermon. Each
Christmas Day his address is aimed at
[he twicers in his that
being his phrase for those whose church-
g°mB 18 limited to Christmas and Easter.
J believe he preaches his real Christmas
sermon on the Sunday before the festi-
val. I can 1 be sure lam still a twicer,
* * * *
“C.F.A.”: Another horse with a head-
stoned grave is Gozo, sire of three Mel-
bourne Cup winners. He sleeps at Tucka
Tucka, on the Yetman-Boggabilla road
(N.S.W.). The old homestead on the river
is screened from the road by a dense
paddock of myall-trees—Gozo’s paddock,
These trees always mark the horse-
paddocks in the flat country,
* * * *
“Communications”: When the Wanaka
(B. 16/11/ ’49) went aground I was
wireless-operator at Coen, about 60 miles
n.-e. of Princess Charlotte Bay, and I
well remember the cyclone. When I went
to bed that night in my radio shack-cum-
boudoir everything seemed normal, but
about midnight I awakened to the spec-
tacle of rain pouring through one
window, across the room and out the
other, like pellets from a shotgun. The
walls of the fibro hut were bulging like a
politician’s tummy. Shoving on a tin hat,
I dragged the bed to the centre of the
room and waited for the end, wondering
if I’d be able to retain my hold on the
gin-bottle as I went. Next morning the
wind eased up to gale force, and clean-
ing-up operations were commenced,
Some days later the bosses of the salvage
party arrived from Cairns in an old
“Duck” amphibian to see what could be
done about the Wanaka. They had a fine
set of photos of the ship lying almost on
her beam ends. She looked a write-off to
me, but things calmed down after the
blow, she was righted, towed south and
refitted to resume service, A few weeks
later I flew over Princess Charlotte and
the surrounding area. Coen had only
caught the fringe of the cyclone. Around
the shores of the bay it appeared as
though a giant box of matches had been
spilt—almost every tree for miles had
been uprooted.
“Quite strapless, Madam—can I interest you ?”
“Sixenate”: The U.S.A. chap who had
a record, made some weeks before his
demise, played from his coffin to de-
nounce the clergy, orthodox religious
rites and religion generally was years be-
hind a Sydney man, although it was not
religion he abhorred; he had a deep
antipathy for his relations. This he ex-
pressed in individual detail in his will,
and, having made that, he had it
recorded in his own voice so that when
his relatives were assembled after his
demise—a penalty of forfeiture of their
interests was provided by the testament
against any absentees—the people he
hated could hear him say what he thought
of them. Someone must have blown the
gaff, however ; a writ stopped the read-
ing of the will as “libellous, offensive and
agdinst public policy,” and, sundry courts
having read and heard the testament in
camera, the attempt at post-mortem
nastiness was suppressed. The Probate
Court subsequently disallowed the will
altogether and provided for the disposi-
tion of the estate as that of an intestate.
* * * *
“Baroona”: An Adelaide lawyer has
fairness down to a fine art. Every sizeable
expense his children cause him is entered
in his books against their names. The
family has grown up now and grand-
chddren are adding to the complications
of his bookkeeping There are now so
many youngsters the man of law will
have an occupation for the days of his
retirement working out just how much
each child and grandchild is entitle
in ms will. *
“Lao-dah”: To show how much his
admirers have understood Gandhi, they
have hanged his assassin, the very oppo-
site to what Gandhi would have done.
He would have said: “Let him go. He
didn’t know what he was doing. If you
hang him you are going against the very
principle I fought for all my life. Put
him where he can do no further harm,
if you like, but don’t think you are aveng-
ing me by putting him to death. 1
believe revenge is uleless.” Yet all India
has been crying “Avenge Gandhi,” which
shows how little they have understood
Anri Pandit Nehru his greatest
pupil, fa Itartfng oufto make fnd/a a
great big Power with an army and a
navy and an air force, and munitions
factories on the latest model, just like all
the others, and all in the name of Gandhi,
the apostle of non-violence and non-
resistance. It won’t be surprising if in 50
years’ time the “followers” of Gandhi will
be goose-stepping round his tomb in
atom-bombproof helmets and being
blessed by the priests of the Mahatma
before setting out on a career of con-
quest to spread his doctrines throughout
the world.
* * * *
“Sackfair”: For years I’ve showered,
shaved, bathed, cleaned my teeth and
generally performed my ablutions behind
the modest veil afforded by the obscure
glass in my bathroom window. No Stalin
behind his Iron Curtain felt more secluded
from the rest of the world. Then a house
was erected on the block next door. The
bathroom windows, I noted idly, were
fitted with the same type of obscure glass
as mine. Just a week after the tenants
moved in there was a mild commotion
in the bathroom, and through the open
windows I saw Venetian blinds being
fixed. The somewhat ynnecessary precau-
tion moved me to wonder whether the
cautious ones also wore bathing costumes
when having a shower—until the night
the blinds weren’t pulled down. Lord, no
wonder they put the blinds to the
windows! And to think that I’ve been
blissfully putting on an exhibition like
that for about 12 years just because a
builder told me: ‘ You can see it s
opaque; look, you can’t see out through
it-”
* * * *
“Salmon Gums”: So “Findy” thinks it
is ridiculous to keep your watch half an
hour fast (B. 26/10/’49)? I hope his par.
was read by some Westralian railways
official. The Perth station sports a three-
faced clocji, at its main entrance, and,
perhaps, with the idea of providing a spur
to latecomers, the hands are kept a few
minutes fast. In ignorance of this 1 once
missed a train through deciding in
advance that it must have just gone. Stung
to mutiny at the thought of having to
wait another quarter-hour, I lodged
a protest with the s.m. He seemed sur-
prised, and said the clock had been three
minutes fast for 20 years and no one had
complained about it before.
* * * *
“Hravpknatcher” • “G’rooer” oro-
pouXS t h eor yT t hat oil can be P re-
movcd from a harbor by spr inklin S it
jfll fl sand ( „ 26/10/ . 49) _ so con .
, h r d t think he can
whistle y it . idea , S r someth i„g similar,
tr j cd out at Fremantle during the
war K wasn , t successfuI _ and since the
was practically an American base at
the time, the \yprk was probably super-
vised by the Yanks, who, G roper says,
developed the idea. But Fremantle isn a
big port, and it was a very busy one
I recall one very agitated conference at
which a collection of port officials and
naval personnel deliberated on the best
a ction to take m the event of a J a P ' '
raid. !t was finally decided that *e ships
m the harbor it was packed sh
nish out to join those waiting m Gag
Roads, where traffic was also heavy The
conference was congratulating itself on
£ astuteness when an old manner said
that if he were a Jap pilot bed sink one
shl P across the harbor mouth and pick
the res, off at leisure. Then the conference
began all ovei again,
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: At that stage on
an exhausting hot day when, the dnnk-
longing being impossible to assuage for
an hour or so, the mind lingers lovingly
on drinks that have delighted the parched
throat, I passed over gin-slings and iced
sherry-cobblers and reached ginger-
beer. Not the anaemic stuff that passes
by the name today, of course, but the
stone-bottle refreshment that was avail-
able in my kid days. It had a body of
real ginger in it and could be got for
tuppence a bottle. On hot days the
drink was popular with adults as well as
the kiddies. It was certainly a thirst-
quencher-
A SHREWD PROVISO.
“Lady, cultured, lover good literature, music, not
averse to dancing, would meet gentleman of similar
tastes, preferably one inclined to plumpness.
—■View Mat, advt»
They’re not, these conjugal specifications,
So rigid or exacting that they’d scare
Off those who might have latent inclinations
Life’s burden with a long-haired mate to
share. . .
Quite frankly she has put her proposition ;
Preferably she’d like a man of “tone.
She has one foible, though, on her admission:
Her lord would be well-nourished of condition,
Not just all skin and bone.
Not all the applicants may share the pleasure
She gets from Brahms or Bach, Shelley or
Pope;
With all the intricacies of some measure
Upon the dance-floor, p’rhaps, they mayn’t
cope.
Still, though he leans to classics or to jazz, he
Who’d be successful must bear this in mind
When wondering what special chances has he:
He simply must confront her with a chassis
That with some beef is lined.
Perhaps her love of literature has led her
To heed a tip she’d picked up from the Bard
Before at last she takes the final header
And settles on the choice of future pard.
Recalling Caesar’s canny observation:
“Let me have men about me that are fat” —
He’d noted with disgust the attenuation
Of Cassius —well, her trait-interpretation
Runs much the same as that.
Associating leanness, though, with treason,
With minds that o’er intrigue may brood and
browse
May not have been behind the lady’s reason
For stipulating plumpness in a spouse.
It could be that upon another nigger
Within the woodpile she has promptly pounced,
And that being seen with someone with a figure
All knobs and angles would make hers look
bigger,
The contrast more pronounced.
N s w
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d put up at the
Railway Hotel in Echuca, and next morn-
ing Mat came down to breakfast looking
a bit bleary. “Trains!” he snorted. “Do
they have t’ shunt the ruddy things all
night?” He contemplated the overdone
sausage in its sea of tomato-sauce and
added, “Y’ know, a goods-train with 73
trucks must be dam’ near a record.” At
this a couple of railway coves looked up.
“Where did y’ see that?” one asked.
“Didn’t see it,” Mat growled, “Heard the
ruddy things last night.” “Aw, be
blowed,” the railway-man said. “I was
shuntin’ last night. We never see a rake
o’ trucks anythin’ like that.” Mat stared
at him. “So you’re the bloke,” he said
ominously. The railway cove looked
at him. “You’re the bloke,” Mat re-
peated, with deadly hatred in his voice.
“When that train come in it slid to a
gentle stop, nice and quiet. Must ha’ bin
a good driver. Hardly heard it. But
you couldn’t leave it alone, could y’! Y’
had t’ have it moved up another three
inches! An’ when it did it went clinkety-
clank-clonk right down the line of trucks
an’ nilly drove me mad. Seventy-three
blasted trucks and every blasted one had
t’ go clinkety-clank-clonk just because y’
wasn’t satisfied, an’ just as I was gettin’
off t’ sleep.” Mat grabbed the sauce-
bottle and I grabbed his hand, the railway
cove grabbed his cap and rushed out. I
got Mat back into his chair. “An’ all be-
cause he had t’ move the blasted thing
another three clinkety-clank inches,” he
moaned.
**, * *
“Solitude”: The mob was bigger than
usual, and the agent allotted Seventyfiver
three young drovers to help him on the
trip. All went well for two days ; then one
of the blokes rode
up holding his waist-
band. “Some sort o’
stomach trouble,” he
groaned. “I better
lay off at the next
town, if y’ don’t
mind.” Twenty odd
miles on another of
them limped back to
Seventyfiver. “Sorry
to leave the outfit,”
he apologised, “but
I reckon it must’ve
been sleeping on the
damp ground last
night done it. Made
me stiff or some-
thing. I’ll have to
take me dog, too.”
“Awright,” grunted
Seventyfiver. “S’pose
I c'n give a bark on
the flank now ’n’
then.” Another day,
then the third cove
shook his head, “No good,” he mourned.
“I’m crook, an’ I reckon I better go back,
Don’t know how you’re going to manage,”
“Aw, Blue’ll hold the lead,” snapped
Seventyfiver, eyeing the bloke disgustedly.
“We’ll get ’em there.” The dog worked
in front all next day, and with the mob
bedded at night the old bloke , was light-
ing the fire, when Blue limped up pain-
fully and presented a paw. “Y-you try
it /” exploded Seventyfiver, glaring wrath-
fully at the mong. “You just try - it.
A man can’t do nothin’ about them young
blokes an’ their goin’s-on, but you!
Gripes, you ought t’ ’ave better sense.”
“En B.”: It’s Bill’s yarn; “Y’ know,
a bloke gets tired of the city. I’ve always
reckoned one day I’d sling it in and go
back bush. A man gets thinkin’ of being
absolutely quiet—you know, sunset out
over the sandhills, last crows goin’ home,
and no noise in the world but the mulga-
sticks cracklin’ under the billy. Or in a
hut with a mate, tea over, both of you
just sittin’ and smokin’, not sayin’ much.
Well, I went back last month in the car
f’r a holiday. Got to a boundary-rider’s
hut, out Yeulapinna way, just after
dark. Ol’ bloke comes out —real
ol’ hatter, but as soon as I switched
off the engine, damme if a radio serial
don’t come slammin’ at me through the
hut door. Coupler nights later I catch
up with a mob of cattle. One bloke was
on watch an’ the rest was lyin’ round
on their swags. That looked good, too
—little patch of fire in the blue dark,
cigarettes goin’—all that. Then I drove
up—straight into a concussion wave of.
cov/boy and hillbilly songs. Well, I felt
pretty crook about it, so I headed further
out, right up to the vermin-fence. Next
day I’m driving along when I see camels
cornin’, slow and quiet along the fence.
I stop the car, and spare me days if the
nettin’-rider’s not sitting on his oont
listening to a crooner over his flamin’
portable wireless!”
* * $ *
“Mike O’Bader”: Recently met in
Alice Springs one who claims to be the
most licensed man in Australia. A
travelling hawker whose business takes
him from Charters Towers (Q.) as far as
Wyndham (W.A.), his customers mostly
comprise travelling drovers and employees
of the big cattle-stations. He holds, in
addition to petrol, dog, marriage and
radio apd such licences, one to carry a
revolver, Queensland and N.T. hawkers’
licences, a licence to sell spectacles, motor-
driver’s licence for three States, one to
sell stamps and one to sell tobacco.
V *
“HAL.”: The “Flying Snake” of
Borneo is in the news again—
but the term “flying” is a mis-
nomer ; the snakes merely gliding
through the air in the same way as do
some species of lizards, several kinds of
tree frog, some species of squirrels and
our own “flying possums.” In the case
"Cut out that back-seat driving!"
of animals, lizards and frogs, a membrane
between the legs is extended to offer a
large surface to the air, enabling the
creature to glide from one tree to another.
Near Heywood (Vic.) one moonlit night
I saw a possum glide from one tree to
another across a 60ft. gap. The Borneo
snakes flatten their entire body like the
expanded hood of a cobra, take off from
the upper limbs of a high tree, glide
through the air to another tree which
may be a considerable distance away and.
while airborne, they maintain their
equilibrium by a wriggling motion
described by observers as being similar to
that of a snake when swimming. When
Europeans first visited Borneo the Dyaks
described this snake to them, but it was
regarded as a legpull. Whites who had
lived for some time in the country, how-
ever, found that the Dyak was quite
reliable in matters of this kind, and before
long they put all doubts at rest by seeing
the “Ular teddong kumbang” themselves.
“He's been trying to get into the club for years!”
The first recorded description of the
creatures appeared in 1886 in an issue of
the Sarawak “Gazette.” Beccari, in his
Wanderings in the Great Forests of
Borneo, mentions the existence of the
creatures, but didn’t have the good fortune
to see one himself. But what a money-
spinner it would be to a showman if he
could get hold of one!
H'
“Bo”: The chap in the small car pulled
up at the side of the dusty red road,
stepped out, pushed his Panama back and
mopped his forehead. “By gee it’s hot!”
he said to the long wiry cove who
appeared to be rounding up on foot a
mob of sheep. The one addressed looked
at the motorist, said “Yair, ’bout hundred
an’ eight, I reckon,” and went on with
the job. “Lookin’ for Larsen’s place,”
the other went on. “Know where it is?”
“Yair, right here,” said the long cove,
jerking his thumb towards the fence
behind him, the boss?” “No.
you’ll find him coolin’ orf under that
big ironbark back there.” The canvasser
took a turn down the road but was back
within a minute. “On’y see a kelpie
there,” he announced. “That’s right—
he’s the boss,” said the long cove. “I’m
Blue. I’ll put meself back on the chain
after I’ve finished rounding these
blankards up! ” And he went on with the
job his dog had left him to.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The biggest swag I ever
saw was standing on its end near Mallee
Cliffs station, on the Euston-Mildura
road. The closer I got to it the bigger it
looked, and I was
just beginning to
think that it was
some drover’s tent-
roll that had fallen
off the wagon when
I saw it move. I
stopped as the huge
thing slowly heaved
itself off the ground,
a pair of feet
appeared underneath
and it began walk-
ing. When I got
ahead of it there was
a small leathery
man attached to it
by a strap. He
seemed to be pushed
along by the swag.
“Where y’ makin’,
mate?” I asked.
“Mildoora, for the
fruit - pickin’,” h e
answered. “Go
down every year;
does y’ good t’ get off the track for
a while.” “Yair,” I agreed, eyeing that
swag. We walked together to the Gol
Gol pub, yarning, and there paused for
rest and refreshment. There were about
a dozen blokes there, and they gathered
round that swag and its owner like people
gather round a hole in a city street. We
measured apd weighed it. It was 4ft.
long and 20in. in diameter, and weighed
1381 b. The man who carried it stood
sft. Sin. high and weighed exactly Bst,
131 b. His only explanation for the
enormity was that he was a “terrible cold
feller. Takes a lot o’ blankets t’ keep me
warm, an’ I ain’t sleepin’ cold for nobody.”
It was January and the temperature round
the 90deg. mark.
* * * *
“Hanley”; The heavy metal plug was
missing from the sheep-trough, and
20,000 gallons of water had run to waste.
Sam’s missus reckoned it had been hooked
out by an animal’s horn, but Sam differed.
“They don’t stand on their flamin’ heads
to drink!” he snorted. “The animal that
took that plug had two legs, and if I
catch him I’ll put him on an ant-bed
with a trap-gun to his head.” Among
the flock an hour or two later Sam noticed
a wether limping. His first guess was “a
dingo’s been at it.” He took a look. The
missing plug was wedged on to the
Wether’s forefoot!
* * * *
“Doh”: To entice the birds around
the house we hung pieces of fat in near-by
trees. Now that they are big enough,
the families of magpies and peewits are
brought along, Mum and Dad making it
easier for themselves by giving them a
feed on the spot. A few days ago two
young maggies came alone. They knew
the routine, peck and poke, so there they
were, feeding each other quite happily.
The beautifully simple method of pecking
and swallowing hadn’t yet occurred to
them.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: You’ve all observed the
various ways there are of emptying a
glass or a mug—provided the hour was
not too close to our stupid closing-time to
permit detached observation. There are
the guzzlers, the gulpers, the sippers and
the suckers; those who twiddle their
glasses and those who clutch them; gre-
garious drinkers and solitary drinkers,
swaggering and furtive types, too. Ever
notice a similar variety among the birds?
The little creek isn’t running now, but
where it begins at the foot of an eroded
gully there’s a small spring that wells up
and provides a few little pools for' a
chain or two before the sand sucks the
water down. Saw the locals having their
first for the day just after sunrise. Galahs
drifted over the bank like big rose-petals
and waddled straight to the bar —deliber-
ate drinkers ; a whirr of rusty wings and
a brown treecreeper was beside them,
taking a quicky himself while enjoying
the company and conversation of the
bigger blokes. A pair of rosellas dropped
from the overhanging gum and walked
up, drank, and departed without a mur-
mur, and a friar-bird took his draught
with equal silence, even though he could
never approach the parrots’ elegance.
Then came an abusive clatter as four
soldier-birds bounced in ; by the swagger,
the snarls, the glare of them you’d think
they owned the flaming spring, put up
their own cash so they could drink in
comfort, and here were a lot, of blasted
strangers swigging the stuff as though it
was theirs. Good mind to take a swipe
at Snap! A maggie puts an end to the
bluff, glides to land, tosses off a bar of
a ribald ballad that reduces little tiffs
to their proper proportions, has a gargle
and strolls off. Then with a green flick
a white-plumed honeyeater alights on a
reed standing in the water; it sways
gently, then steadies, and he bends down,
slips his grip slightly until his beak touches
the pool, and takes his drink upside-
down. I’m still searching for his human
counterpart.
THE TREES.
Recalling the hours of our playtime,
The hours of our labor and ease,
And the Bush in the night and the daytime,
My thoughts wander back to the trees.
The box-trees that shadowed our riding;
The sandals that scattered their scents;
The slender pine saplings providing
The ridge-poles that carried our tents.
The tough-hearted gidyea that taxes
The might and the muscle of men,
That notches the blades of the axes
And calls for the grindstone again.
The mulga that tore us and tattered
Our shirts in the muster and hunt
In moments when nothing else mattered
But finding a way to the front.
The friendly green wilga that shaded
Our sleep in those middle-day spells
When nothing the silence invaded
But the music of hobbles and bells.
And the myall that flamed and took oyer
The night when the sun had withdrawn,
And brightened thp dreams of the drover
And died in grey ashes at dawn.
O, fair are the oaks and the beeches
From the first green leaf to the fall,
But a message from far away reaches
My heart. ’Tis the Bush trees’ call!
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


*v,i$
$
Alt §
By far the majority
of radio sets being
sold the world over,
including Australia,
are not of the
“ reach-down-to-the-
floor” variety. Early
in radio’s history this was also the case
when the loud speaker was a separate
piece of apparatus. Many will remember
that the trend later was to floor cabinet
models with the speaker enclosed in
rather a large area in order to get good
tonal quality. Mullard was among the
first in Australia to introduce a variety
of mantel and table models which
equalled in performance the large cabinet,
or “reach-down-to-the-floor” type. This
was because the Mullard chief in Aus-
tralia, Mr. Eric Dare, on a visit to the
Mallard English factories in 1935-36,
was impressed by the achievements of
their engineers, who had succeeded in
evolving circuits with tone compensation
that made the “compacting” of radio
possible, to an extent undreamt of
hitherto. ' Nevertheless, there are still
occasions where radio is also considered
to be a piece of furniture, and, of course,
Mullard, like many other companies, still
make console and combination sets to
meet such demand.
« * * *
A reader writes concerning a recent
paragraph in this column dealing with
early broadcasting in Australia; —
“An epic occasion was at Charles
Maclurcan’s home at Strathfield (Sydney)
one evening, when some 10 or more radio
engineers of the time gathered, at
Charlie’s invitation, so that he could
prove he was able to perform the feat of
receiving Melbourne direct at loudspeaker
strength. Sure enough, there was 3LO
Melbourne all right, not too loudly, but
reasonably intelligible amongst the mush,
but Malcolm Perry, one of the old-
timers, threw a spanner in the works
when he wanted to know what exactly
was “loudspeaker strength.” This no-
body was able to answer to his satisfac-
tion. Although most of us admitted that
Charles Maclurcan’s claims were justified,
we could do nothing with Malcolm, and
the meeting lapsed for want of a defini-
tion—so to speak. Anyhow, what is
loudspeaker strength?”
* * * *
... . Speaking of “compacting” a radio
reminds us of a tendency some time back
to use the interior dividing walls of a
house as a baffle for the speaker (thus
allowing the full frequency response and
output of the speaker to be used), as there
would be little chance of air pressure
waves generated on one side of the
speaker cone interfering with the rarefica-
tion that occurred on the back of the
cone. Nothing much is heard of this
idea today (although, as you quite realise,
the speaker could be heard in both rooms
at once), because the tendency is rather
that more than one set should be used in
the household because of the individual
programme tastes of listeners. The
results achieved by the infinite baffling
idea was not much appreciated by the
average listener, nor was the built-in
wiring system whereby one radio set
could serve several speakers. Better to
have one or two little sets like the
Mullard Thousand for bedrooms and
verandah and even the Mullard Portable
—MBS 1050—which can be carried about
and played anywhere. — Advt.
“Mandipa”: Mac had an opposite ex-
perience to that of “Bo’s” new hand, who
delivered the water despite the rain (B.
2/11 / ’49). During a drought he had
laboriously filled two Furphies by bucket
from a neighbor’s well, and, heading for
his block four miles distant, ran into a
heavy thunderstorm. The slippery ground
soon made the going hard for his
drought-weakened horses, so, rejoicing in
the wet, he turned on the taps and rolled
on with the empty watercarts. At his
boundary he hit the dust again, the storm
having been an isolated one. The sun
set in a red ball, but it was less lurid
than Mac’s language as he viewed the
thirsty crow-baits lined up with the wide-
eyed cattle by the empty water-troughs.
* * * *
“Wandana”; A Hobart fisherman
rubbed his eyes when, after a couple of
sharp tugs on the line he’d baited with
mussels, he dragged something out of the
Derwent that had a couple of feet, each
with three toes, with short feelers on the
tip of the upper jaw and what he described
as “eyelashes.” The fish fought like
an eel. It was brown, yellow and red
in coloring, with eyes of reddish tinge.
Toes were up to an inch in length, with
red tips. About Min. long, it measured
9in. round the girth, and weighed a
pound. Museum authorities identified it
as a “blenny.” Although unknown to
Tassie anglers, those familiar with
Queensland’s north-east coast, where the
“mud-skipper” lives, think it belongs to
that family, although how long it has
been holidaying down south is a mystery.
The mud-skipper is the curious little
amphibian which, by means of a sucker
formed by the fusion of its ventral-fins,
can climb the sloping limbs of trees ; and
out of the water it has a habit of stick-
ing out its eyes on short stalks like a
man who’s just been told that Arthur
Calwell has said something sensible. A
close relative of the family is the Johnny
Jumper, who uses his pectoral-fin as a
clasping organ or “hand” when he’s
descending a mangrove limb. Grey-
brown in color, with patches of gayer
hue, he’s hardly likely to receive a second
glance until he suddenly puts on his
kangaroo act, jumping out of the water
when he comes to the edge of a mudbank
and on to dry land.
* * * ♦
“Heresone”: “Hanko’s” par. (B.
2/11 /’49) set me wondering as to what
will happen to the first swagman who
buys a 1949-model billycan. So far I
have seen them only in the local store,
but I solemnly vow to dip my lid to the
first man I meet carrying one. Of the
common two-quart size, they are made of
pressed aluminium, with a small handle
on one side for tipping and a teapot-
type spout on the other. A cup and
saucer in a good bone china seems the
natural corollary for it —but perhaps the
’49-model swaggie only goes in for the
best in appurtenances.
* * * *
“Old Carp”: “G’roper” errs in saying
that no builder 60 years ago would think
of nailing down a Baltic-pine floor with
other than ewebank nails. The old
spikes by then had (in N.S.W. at any rate)
long been superseded by the diamond-
head for flooring and general carpenter-
ing work. True, nails of ewebank shape
were used, but they were smoothly
finished, of light gauge and known as
“brads.” They were used by joiners and
cabinetmakers in fixing light work.
Floors of Macquarie buildings were laid
with a ewebank-type handmade nail. I’ve
knocked hundreds of ’em out of boards
when replacing old floors, but never have
I seen one used. “G’roper” also is astray
about his screws. While pre-Nettlefold
wood-screws were parallel for their full
length, they certainly weren’t like present-
day coach-screws, which have pointed
“Can you stop that leak with a Washer ?”
ends. Pre-Nettlefold screws were blunt
at the business end and could be screwed
into wood only to the depth of the hole
bored to receive them.
* * * *
“Zake”:. Old Bill Ferguson, who’d
been in the district for about 40 years,
had retired at last after having been
threatening to do it for the past 15 years.
His “boys”—both in their sixties —he had
long since set up on their own blocks, his
daughters were all married, and the ques-
tion arose to his and Mum’s future plans.
“You used to say years ago about how,
after you’d retired, you’d like to go and
settle in Melbourne,” Mum said, “and
enjoy those cool sea-breezes that you
could never get inland.” “Yair, and I’d
like to, too,” the old bloke replied. “But
I bin thinkin’ it’s like this. A man might
just get down there and perhaps wriggle
out, and who’d turn up to speed him on
his way to the bone-orchard? Nobody!
I now know everyone in this districk an’
they all know me, and if I sling the towel
in here the whole districk’ll turn up to me
funeral. No, Mum, I’m stickin’ here!"
* * * *
“Pongo”: “B. A. Ker” believes what
most others believe when he says (B.
9/11/ ’49) that in a well-constructed
modern building “there is no other place
than the earth for the termite to obtain
its life-giving moisture” ; but he’s wrong.
A friend was shocked when a plumber
repairing his hot-water system informed
him that his roof was being riddled by
white-ants. Inspection of brick founda-
tion piers and walls by a white-ant expert
revealed not a track or trace of the
demolishers. In the Oregon rafters the
ants were well established, and tracks in
one main stick appeared to lead from
facia end to ridge ; but facia-boards were
untouched. To get more light and air
the expert removed a sheet of corrugated
fibro above the aforementioned main
rafter; then the mystery was solved. In
the guttering reposed a piece of 4in. x Sin.
Oregon in which was the ants’ nest.
When fixing that gutter the tradesmen,
aware of the non-rusting qualities of
fibro, hadn’t given it a fall to the down-
pipe, as is imperative with galvanised
guttering. It had a slight sag, and in this
the water still remained —sufficient to
keep the pests in thriving condition.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: You get used to skeletons
out on the plains ; bleached and scattered
backbones, crumbling horns, dried-out
carcasses with heads curled round in the
last sleep, and parched, dusty hides taut
across fleshless ribs, and occasionally a
more gnlesome one, like Lawson’s
Brummy Usen with its attendant goanna ;
but the one I pitied most was that of an
old-man red Too, draped on a fence. It
was a good season, so he wasn’t weak —
just careless; he’d cleared the easily-
visible galvanised netting and two plain
No. B’s above it, but hadn’t noticed the
partially-rusted barbed-wire strung along
the post-tops and came down with this
across his groins. He’d struggled all
right—that barb sawed him through to the
spine—but the trap was perfect, and
there he hangs still, the tip of the long
tail lying along the ground on one side,
his head on the other, and his hind-toes
just touching the ground with the hips
hunched grotesquely between. He’s the
only one caught; reds and blue fliers
still clear that fence daily on their way
to the lake, but whether they jump a bit
higher because of the awful example
before them I can’t say.
* ♦ * ♦
“Betcha”: Neither nesting magpies nor
mudlarks have bothered my mong unduly,
but there’s a pair of plovers we pass
daily that have him properly bluffed. The
first couple of days he accepted their
challenge, but lost out badly. Then he
took refuge under the nag. After the
moke had stepped all over him about
four times, he returned to the onslaught
of the plovers. For a few days his pas-
sage through the enemy territory was
hectic, but after several unsuccessful ruses
he has now hit on the following.
Approaching the danger-zone he watches
for the birds, and on sight drops to the
ground, preferably near a log or other
cover. There he lies motionless until
I am a few hundred yards ahead, on the
far side of the trouble belt; then he
comes flat-out to catch up. By watching
for a good opportunity, he usually makes
it before the birds discover him and
return to the attack.
♦ * * ♦
“Oomalas” (New Britain): The Torres
Strait custom which prohibits an indi-
vidual from calling a brother- or sister-
in-law by name (B. 19/10/’49) applies
also to New Guinea and the adjacent
islands. Here the names of pa- and ma-
in-law cannot be called, either. In-laws
are called tambu, a simple and effective
way of dealing with the problem.
if! * * *
“Ware”: The science of anatomy is
so old that in the second century a.d.
Galen thought fit to say that the struc-
ture of the human body was so well
known that he needed only to explain
functions. In 1941 two doctors began
research at the Nuffield Institute on
kidney failure consequent on the crush-
ing of limbs in air-raids. Their studies
were interrupted inevitably, but were
resumed in 1945. Working on rabbits,
the investigators found that constriction
of a limb caused the diversion of blood
in the kidney through a secondary renal
circulation whose existence was before
unsuspected. This is certainly one in the
eye for Galen, and for his modern
counterparts. It also has thrown such
light on other vascular phenomena that
physiologists believe that a decisive battle
with high blood-pressure may be in sight.
* * * *
“E.”: Gin was an ugly little tyke of no
particular breed, but he had learned to be
a pretty decent sheep-worker. I’d refused
offers for him several times, but under
pressure agreed to lend him for a month
or two to a cove who lived about 120
miles off. There was a roundabout road
to his place, and, going that way, I
shoved Gin in the boot of the bus. The
mong had never before been outside our
small district, and was considerably
worried a few hours later to find himself
in a strange town. I chained him at the
pub and gave the borrower a ring. Two
days later I got a message that the dog
had slipped his chain, and couldn’t be
found, and all transports and other
regular travellers of the road were
advised to watch for him. A week passed
without anyone sighting him; then I got
up one morning to find Gin waiting for
me in his usual place. He was nothing
but hide and bone, having apparently
ignored the beaten track and made the
trip the shortest way, through heavy bush.
* * * ♦
“E.”: Tired of being put off by the
retailers, Hal decided to take his order
direct to the small factory and see the
boss there about it. He located the place
just out of the town, and pulled up as
the midday whistle blew. Presently out
through the gates rolled a big limousine.
Hal tried to head it off, was ignored, and
dropped back to curse his luck as the
vehicle turned leisurely townward. For
a few minutes he stamped round;
then a weary-looking old cove on a push-
bike straggled forth. Hal stopped him.
“I wanted to see the boss about getting
some materials cut,” he explained.
“Think I’ve got any chance?” “Well, I
couldn’t say,” pondered the old bloke.
“We’re pretty busy at present, but they
might cut ’em for y’. Trouble is, the
place’s shut now for lunch. If I was
you I’d come back later.” “Yes, I’ll do
that,” Hal nodded. “Er . . . you might
know. What time’d be best? A bit
after two, do you reckon?” “That
should, be about right,” nodded the bike-
pusher! “The men’ll be back by then,
and I can ask them —they must’ve passed
y’ in a car. Y’ see, it’s no good me
promising y’ what they’ll do. I’m only
the poor cow that employs ’em.”
PAINTED DRAGON.
Spring came in with the morning,
Rousing him from sleep,
Seeping in through the drifting sand
Where lizard holes lie deep;
And he came from his saltbush shelter.
Out by the great salt lake,
To travel again his sandhill roads,
Roads of spider, of snake,
Roads of ant and centipede,
Roads of all things that crawl,
Red roads full of sunburnt warmth,
He knows them all.
And, yawning in the sun, he notes
The kangaroo bound through the plain,
The plain that is grey with mulga scrub,
Grey where the flats have lain
Months without any water,
All the long year through;
Drought has come since they were filled
And the wild duck flew
Hundreds of miles from the river reeds—
Now no birds come to haunt this place,
Only black crows calling in
The sky’s vast space.
He stands aloof and watches
With condescending eye
The tourists of the emu world
Plod slowly, gravely by,
Seeking watered country
With berries and fresh green,
Swaying through the loiig grey plain
Where old, old tracks have been.
There, underneath the vast blue sky,
His dragon’s day is spent
In lordly pacing of his sand,
In rich content.
S.A.
IRENE GOUGH.


The WILD CAT COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 544,771 6 p.c. = 526,800 17,971 6,359,023
1941.. 547,123 6 „ „ 526*800 20,323 6,379,346
1942.. 548,004 6 „ „ 526,800 21,204 6,400,550
1943.. 543,004 6 „ „ 526,800 16,204 6,416,754
1944.. 551,050 6 „ „ 526,800 24,250 6,441,004
1945.. 552,907 6 „ „ 526,800 26,107 6,467,111
1946.. 569,385 65.„ ~ 537,775 81,610 6,498,721
1947.. 617,532 6$ „ „ 581,675 35,857 6,534,578
1948. . 728,903 7* „ ~ 658,500 70,403 6,604,981
1949. . 743,692 8 „ ~ 702,400 41,292 6,646,273
Today the private trading banks
are fighting for their existence, which
is vital to a free, democratic, well-
balanced and progressive economy. The
Chifley Government recently tried to
nationalise them, and thus put money—
everybody’s money—in the concentra-
tion camp under party-political dic-
tatorship. It was balked in its purpose
by the High Court and Privy Council
declaring important sections of the
Bank Nationalisation Act of 1947 in-
valid ; but Federal Ministers have made
it plain that, if returned to office on
December 10, “Labor” will find new ways
of achieving its object.
The president of the B.N.S.W. points to
one of them:
The Privy Council’s action in dismissing
the Commonwealth’s appeal against the
High Court’s judgment merely prevents the
Government from arbitrarily ordering the
banks to cease carrying on ’ banking busi-
ness. This affects only one section (sec-
tion 46) of the Banking Act. It is possibly
still open to the Government to amend the
other sections to satisfy the High Court
and to nationalise the banks by acquisition
of their shares or of their assets.
The Prime Minister has talked of “virile”
competition, which sounds uncommonly
like a threat to harass the private banks
by a policy pf squeeze, using unfairly for
this purpose the wide powers given by
the Banking Act of 1945.
The Liberal-Country party is pledged
not only to repeal the Bank Nationalisa-
tion Act of 1947 but to ask the people to
amend the Constitution so that no under-
taking can be nationalised without a
referendum. It is also pledged to make
fair competition the keynote of the Com-
monwealth Bank’s trading activities.
And it will see that control of
the Commonwealth Bank policy is
taken out of the hands of one poli-
tician (the Federal Treasurer) and
put into those of a small board of
directors, of which the governor of the
bank is to be chairman. Parliament it-
self would resolve any important ques-
tion of policy on which the Treasurer and
board were unable to agree. Experience
the world over has shown that this set-up
—a more-or-less autonomous central
bank as the credit-regulating member of
an otherwise independent banking sys-
tem —is sound practice. The 1945 Act
gives the central bank all the powers
necessary to control and regulate credit,
interest rates and the level of private-
bank earnings.
Current movements in bank figures
mainly reflect inflationary pressures.
These arise from high levels of
export incomes and Government spend-
ing, rising prices and the upward
pressure engendered by recurrent wage-
lifts in the absence of a correspond-
ing increase in production. Latest addi-
tion to these pressures is the wholesale
currency depreciation that has taken
place throughout the sterling area in
terms of dollars. If the pressure in the
boiler is to be kept below danger-level,
plans to meet the inflation menace must
be laid now. This means major changes
in Government policies, and there is no
indication that the Government is pre-
pared to make these changes. With the
present high level of Government spend-
ing a critical situation could result should
a sharp fall in the national income occur ;
a possibility not to be lightly disregarded.
The shortages of coal and steel,
the uneconomic speed at which costly
plants are running, the shortage of
houses and the immobility of labor
which this shortage engenders are
all instances of the inability of
Socialist planners to keep all sections
of the economy in smooth motion. While
measures to promote employment will cer-
tainly assist trade, soundly-based measures
to promote trade will lead to permanent
employment. What the country needs is a
plan not to nationalise the banks, which
are already effectively controlled, but to
ensure adequate and continuous supplies
of coal, steel and other essentials. The
banks are able and ready to play their
part, and never were they better
equipped, nor more prepared, to do so.
The extra £14,789 of profit shown by
the Wales last term came mainly from
the investment basket —incidentally, the
co, is to be congratulated on the new and
attractive presentation of its report and
figures. The £743,692 of profit was 4.8
p.c. on shareholders’ funds, or 8.4 p.c.
on capital alone as against 8.3 p.c. and
7 p.c. for the two preceding years. The
div. was lifted from 74 p.c. to 8 p.c.,
which is the best rate paid since 1931. An
analysis of p. and 1. figures shows that
the Government gets more out of the
business than shareholders. Of gross
earnings, salaries and management
charges, etc., took 76.5 p.c., taxes 12.9
p.c. and divs. 10 p.c., leaving only 0.6
p.c. to plough back into the business.
A growth of £33,463,312 in deposits,
etc., was accompanied by an expansion
of £30,536,596 in low-interest-bearing
liquids and of only £2,628,007 in ad-
vances, all of which reflects influences
already referred to;
1989. 1948. 1949.
paid capital .. £8,780,000 £8,780,000" £8,780,000
Notea . . .. 81,159 80,996 80,995
Deposits, etc... 111,769,712 266,723,976 300,187,288
Liquids .. 30,193,019 94,758,564 110,487,898
Deposits* . . 452,211 74,456,210 89,303,47,2
Advances . . 93,077,235 109,308,778 111,936,785
Premises .. 3,300,000 3,840,000 4,080,000
Other assets.. 2,000 2,000
* Statutory deposits with central banks, Australia
and N.Z.
From the banking point of view the co.’s
position is an exceptionally strong one.
When the books closed “special-account”
deposits with Government banks
(£89,363,472), Treasury bills (£10,000,000)
and Government securities (£25,117,842)
totalled £124,481,314, or £12,544,529
more than the co. had advanced to trade
and industry.
At £37 15s. (£4O a few months ago) the
£4O shares paid to £20 —the other £2O is
a reserve liability callable only if needed
on liquidation —return 4.2 p.c. Net
tangible cover (book-value) is £35 2s. 9d.
South British Insurance Co.
Net To Re- Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1941.. 656,058 22.5 p.c.=232,119 423,939 3,822,472
Unexplained reduction, £108,363 .. 3,714,109
1942.. 448,711 20 p.c.=206,328 242,383 3,956,492
Unexplained reduction, £1,440 .. 3,955,052
1943.. 512,299 20 p.c.=206,328 305,971 4,261,023
Unexplained reduction, £81,453 .. 4,179,570
1944.. 559,661 20 p.c.=206,328 353,333 4,532,903
Unexplained additions, £5463 .. 4,538,366
1945.. 523,496 35 p.c.=361,074 162,422 4,700,788
Donation to “Heritage,” £lO,OOO .. 4,690,788
Unexplained reduction, £5189 .. .. 4,685,599
1946.. 572,890 20 p.c.=206,328 366,562 5,052,161
Unexplained add. invest, res, £54,040.. 5,106,201
1947. . 875,413 25 p.c.=257,910 617,503 5,723,704
Reduction exchange res., £1,036,892 .. 4,686,812
1948.. 805,156 25 p.e.=257,910 547,246 5,234,058
Reduction reserves, £666 .. ..5,233,392
1949.. 715,173 25 p.c.=257,910 457,263 5,690,655
This big Auckland-controlled fire, marine
and accident office has reserves heaped
over 5| times higher than paid capital.
It is not surprising, therefore, that the
market is beginning to dream dreams.
Over the last 12 months the price of the
f.-p. 10s. shares advanced from 88s. Bd.
to 109 s. on Sydney ’Change. Allowing
for exchange at the current rate, the
immediate return at 109 s. is only 2.8 p.c.
on the basis of last term’s 25 p.c. distri-
bution. So the investor at 109 s. who
looks for 4 p.c. on his money counts on
the div. going to 35 p.c., or, say, a five-
for-two bonus-scrip issue and drop in
the div. to 10 p.c., which would then
call for £361,574, equal to 5.3 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds (capital and reserves
combined) at end August last.
Of the present £1,031,640 of paid
capital, £907,910 represents reserves
capitalised during the 15 boom years to
1927. The present post-war boom
might not continue much longer,
and may possibly have greater reper-
cussions than its predecessor. So, before
committing the co. to anything with a
sting in its tail, like the capitalisation
of reserves, the cautious board might
prefer to wait till the outlook is less un-
certain. What is obvious is that the
market is prepared to wait for its benefits.
Fish swim into the co.’s net from all
parts of the globe, and have done so
for over three-quarters of a century.
Moreover, the catch gets bigger. The
growth in net premium income last terra
was £162,580:
Net Ex- Loss Expense
Premiums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
£ £ £
1939.. 1,417,625 844,516 384,989 59.5 p.c. 27.7 p.c.
1942.. 2,235,471 1,361,333 593,704 60.9 „ 26.5 „
1944.. 2.612,012 1,403,581 825,258 53.7 „ 31.6 „
1945. . 2,389,127 1,229,044 821,984 51.4 „ 34.4 „
1946.. 2,498,400 1,435,721 699,195 57.5 „ 32.9 „
1947. . 3,005,415 1,568,993 814,560 52.4 „ 27.1 „
1948.. 3,146,635 1,694,677 848,045 53.9 „ 26.9 „
1949.. 3,309,215 1,894,378 921,947 57.2 „ 27.8 „
A less favorable loss experience—a matter
over which the management has little
direct control—and slightly heavier ex-
pense rate resulted in a contraction of
£111,023 in the gross underwriting
surplus, reducing it to £492,890. Interest
and rents turned in £222,283 (up £21,040),
making total profit from all sources
£715,173 (down £89,983). But that was
before allowing for unexpired risks, which,
on the usually-accepted 40 p.c. basis,
would reduce the underwriting surplus to
£427,844, and the total profit to £650,127,
or 63 p.c. on capital as against 72.5,
65.5 and 51.3 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding terms.
The solid and readily-available nature
of the protection for policyholders and
shareholders is in this form: — *
1940. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. £1,031,640 £1,031,640 £1,031,640
Liabilities* .. 625,691 1,894,116 2,146,040
Govt, securities .. 2,125,260 8,412,547 3,862,188
M’cipal debentures 469,373 668,805 632,602
Stocks, debentures,
etc 818,754 1,036,329 1,113,410
Mortgages . . 246,000 733,039 691,927
Deposits, cash, etc. 971,101 1,831,921 2,018,922
Book debts .. 129,331 143,171 183,826
Premises .. . . 473,250 488,748 520,206
* Including reserves for outstanding losses and
taxation.
When the books closed Government
securities (up £449,641) accounted for
42.8 p.c. of total assets.
Hotel Metropole, Ltd. (Sydney)
Net To Re- 11 e-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 21,920 8 p.c. = 20,161 1,759 57,971
1941.. 18,789 8 ~ „ 20,160 56,600
1942.. 15.939 5} „ ~ 18,860 2,079 58,679
1943.. 29,276 9 ~ „ 22,681 6,595 65,275
1944.. 29,270 10 „ ~ 25,201 4,009 09,344
1945.. 31,671 10 „ ~ 25,201 0,470 75,814
1940.. 85,657 111,, ~ 28,981 .6,670 82,490
1947.. 35,321 111,, ~ 28,981 6,340 88,830
From tax provision, £5OOO .. .. 93,830
1948.. 34,431 111 p.c. = 28,981 5,450 99,280
From deferred repairs reserve, £2OOO 101,280
1949.. 34,666 121 p.c. = 31,501 3,165 104,445
The Metropole enjoys a wide goodwill
(of which no account is taken in the
books) built up on service, comfort and
a moderate tariff, and shareholders have
had very satisfactory returns ever since
Sydney interests bought out the Mel-
bourne owners at the beginning of this
century. Of the £252,010 of capital,
£117,000 is bonus scrip, and a steady
10 p.c., plus special distributions totalling
£67,500, were paid for the 20 years to
1929, followed by divs. averaging 6.9 p.c.
for the nine difficult years to 1938, and
9.6 p.c. for the 11 years to the close of
last accounts.
Of recent years the boom in rural and
urban incomes—the hotel is a popular
rendezvous for country visitors —has
meant a high level of guest occupancy
and free spending, and therefore a brisk
bar and lounge trade. The gains, how-
ever, have been largely offset by a com-
bination of controlled tariff charges and
rising costs, aggravated by a super-
imposed 40-hour week, and by staff and
other difficulties. For the half-dozen
years to mid-1948 the dining-room failed
to show a profit.
Last term abnormally high prices for
wool and other primary products “greatly
benefited the c 0.,” and the catering
section appears to have turned the comer
• —at any rate it is not reported to have
resulted in a loss. After allowing the
customary £2OOO for depreciation and
£20,775 (down £800) for taxation, the net
result was a shade (£235) better at
£34,666, or 13.7 p.c. on capital compared
with 13.6, 14, 14.1, 12.5, 11.6 and 11.6
p.c. back to 1943. And, although costs
are still troublesome, the board considered
the position good enough to lift the
div. from \\\ p.c. to p.c.
Renovations and renewals —always
hungry items in this class of business —
will call for money when labor and
materials permit, and the co. is well
equipped to meet the outlay:
1939. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £252,010 £252,010 £252,010 £252,010
Liabilities .. 9,510 11,054 11,110 9,869
Tax reserve .. 31,799 24,630 23,890
Fixed assets.. 285,317 268,317 266,317 264,317
Stock . . 2,608 3,286 2,938 4,473
Book debts,
cash, etc... 53,608 146,994 152,674 156,844
When the books closed Government
securities and cash together totalled
£153,192. Thp year’s improvement in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£151,448)
was £6946.
Doubtful how long the current boom
will continue, the market prices the
pound shares at 41s. (425. a year ago),
at which figure the return is 6.1 p.c. on a
12i p.c. distribution, or 4.9 p.c. should
the rate drop to 10 p.c. Net tangible
cover is 28s. 3d.
Brack Mills (Aust.), Ltd.
f Dividend To Re-
Year, Loss. Pref. Ord. serves. Deficit.
5 p.c.
June3o, £ £ £ £
Goodwill, £70,000 70,000
Preliminary exes., £23,100 .. .. 93,105
1947.-22,850 Nil Nil 110,955
p rofrfc •
Pref. interest capitalised, £19,555 .. 131,510
1948..16,340 Nil Nil 16,340 119,170
1949. .60,950 12,500 3 p.c. = 16,416 32,034 87,136
This lusty newcomer to Australia’s infant
rayon-textile industry was born in Mel-
bourne in May, 1946, and, of course,
has not yet got fully into its stride—it
takes time for plant and staff in a big
new manufacturing organisation to
develop maximum efficiency. Commercial
production began on a limited scale dur-
ing the 1948 term, and increased in
volume and variety as more looms and
other plant became available, and still
more equipment is yet to be installed.
The co. kicked off with the blessing of
Bruck Silk Mills, Ltd., the big rayon-
yarn and -fabric manufacturers of
Montreal (Canada), paying £70,000 (in
scrip) for goodwill, patent processes,
trade-marks, etc. The Canadian co. also
took 100,000 paids for 132 looms, to be
delivered over a period of five years, and
provided key technical personnel from
the managing-director downward. The
Australian public put up £785,000 in cash
—250,000 5 p.c. prefs. and 535,000 ords.,
of which 235,000 were issued at par in
Dec., 1948, and 75,400 just before the
close of last accounts. When the books
were ruled off nothing had come in from
the last lot and there was still £58,712 to
be received from the December issue.
The cash-paid capital went into weav-
ing, dyeing, printing and finishing equip-
ment, and structural and other alterations
to the factory building at Wangaratta
(Vic.), which was taken over from the
Government on a 20-year lease at £B5OO
p.a., with an option to purchase at valua-
tion. In 1947 the Canadian co. acquired
a batch of about 250 looms of different
type for immediate delivery, and the
initial contract was adjusted accordingly.
This advanced the co.’s installation pro-
gramme, and increased its capital outlay ;
hence the recent new share-issues already
referred to. The cost of plant yet to come
from Canada will not be affected by
currency devaluation.
The loss of £22,850 in 1947 was trans-
ferred to establishment account, and
£19,555 paid in interest on pref. shares
in lieu of divs., together with £23,105 of
preliminary exes., was also capitalised,
making total intangibles £135,510, against
which there was a p. and 1. credit of
£48,374 at June 30, 1949, leaving £87,136
of capital unrepresented by tangibles.
Part of the £16,340 of profit earned in
1948 came from sale of piecegoods
supplied by the Canadian co.; but the
dollar problem soon nipped this source
of earnings in the bud. Last term yarn
came forward in fair supply, more mill
labor was available, output increased,
and so did sales, despite keen competition
from overseas. After setting aside £37,933
for depreciation and £20,000 for taxation,
etc., the profit was £60,950, or enough to
pay the pref. div. and show 8.8 p.c. on
average ord, capital. The ords. got a
maiden 3 p.c., with prospects.
Rising costs and growing competition
from overseas, against which Australian
rayon manufacturers have asked for pro-
tection, are the hardest nuts on which
the management will have to try its teeth.
Output can be expected to increase, and,
given equal opportunities, the co. is con-
fident it can successfully compete with
outsiders both in quality and price.
Trouble has arisen because British and
continental rayon-yarn manufacturers sell
cheaper in their home than in their export
markets.
To meet the year’s net addition of
£99,299 to fixed assets, £ll,Oll to book
debts, etc., and to clip £62,135 off the
overdraft, an extra £83,388 of capital was
gathered and stock was reduced by
£15,478, surplus earnings, etc., providing
the balance:
Paid capital— 1947. 1948. 1949.
Pref. £249,637 £250,000 £250,000
Ord 294,963 487,500 570,888
Overdraft .. .. 154,360 92,225
Sundry creditors .. 42,636 4.5,365 44,213
Tax provision, etc. .. 20,000
Freehold .. .. 388 14,309 15,613
Leasehold .. .. 23,145 50,157 64,799
Plant 270,505 366,914 450,267
Stock 98,341 275,933 260,455
Book debts, etc. .. 11,958 110,591 121,602
Cash 59,889 151 230
When the books closed more-or-less
liquids exceeded outside liabilities (includ-
ing tax provision) by £225,849.
Over the last couple of months the
market for the ords. has strengthened
from 245. 6d. to 265. 6d. At the higher
figure the return would be 4.5 p.c. on a
6 p.c. div. basis. The prefs. at 21s. 6d.
yield 4.6 p.c. Including uncalled capital,
net tangible cover is £3 9s. sd. prefs. and
17s. 6d. ords.
Southern Kinta Consolidated, Ltd.
This is one of the biggest tin-dredgers
in the Empire, having amalgamated (in
1934) six cos. operating in the Kinta
Valley, Malaya. It has been a good
profit-earner, too. For the eight years to
1942 (before the Jap. occupation) divs.
averaged 20 p.c., and there is still 20
years’ work, or more, ahead of the
dredges.
Combined dredgeable areas at March
31 last totalled 9329 acres in Malaya
and 1272 acres in Siam. The Siam pro-
perty, repossessed in April, 1948, is not
equipped. Total yardage and assay value
are not mentioned, but probably exceed
300,000,000 c.y., averaging around 0.51 b.
t.o. Equipment comprises nine bucket
dredges and a small suction-cutter. Before
the war seven of the dredges were modern
and efficient units, with an annual digging
capacity of 15i million c.y.
The Kampar Malaya dredge began
digging again in October, 1946, two more
machines set in during 1947, and another
two, on the Southern Kampar sector,
reached their working faces toward the


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
trade Marks.— Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Filter
«C553S
Cylinder
TO
guthridge
PTY., UMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Koad,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
The Colonial Sugar Refining Company
Points from the General Manager’s Report
In his report to shareholders, the General Manager of the
Colonial Sugar Refining Company, Mr. C. W. Rothe, said that just
prior to the coal strike refined sugar supplies had improved
considerably.
The coal strike destroyed this favourable situation the
total loss of refined sugar production directly due to it was 37,000
tons. Pyrmont Refinery, the largest in Australia, ceased operating
for seven weeks.
Plant capacity
to spare.
Labour shortages, poor
quality coal, deteriorated
raw sugar and the 40-
hour week also affected
refining operations. The
overall result in Austra-
lia for the year ended
30th September was that
the actual production of
refined sugar was more
than 1 00,000 tons below
the capacity of the Com-
pany’s refining plant.
240,000 tons of
raw sugar stored.
A very large quantity of
raw sugar is stored in
Queensland waiting
shipment. At present
there are over 240,000
tons and the quantity is
increasing every week.
Price rise goes to
farmers and millers.
The full amount of the
increased proceeds from
the recent price rise
(less increased costs
such as freights) will be
passed on to the raw
sugar millers and the
cane growers. As re-
finers, the Millaquin
Sugar Company and
C.S.R. Co. receive no
benefit from the in-
creased price.
Smaller sacks would
cost £750,000.
In certain circles in
Australia an effort is
being made to reduce by
one third the size of the
standard corn sack used
for packing wheat, fer-
tiliser, raw sugar, etc.
It is estimated that the
cost of such a move to
the sugar industry would
be over three-quarters
of a million pounds per
annum. Raw sugar in
Australia is packed in
sacks averaging 1 60 lbs.,
compared with weights
per sack varying up to
330 lbs. in other coun-
tries.
Plastics and
Medicines.
Our Subsidiary, C.S.R.
Chemicals Ltd., contin-
ues to make good pro-
gress at Rhodes. Plastic
moulding powder is
being made from im-
ported flake. The phar-
maceutical section
should go into produc-
tion shortly.
C.S.R. association
with Courtaulds.
Cellulose acetate, the
main product of our
Rhodes Subsidiary, is
one of the raw materials
in the manufacture of
rayon yarn. It has there-
fore been decided to be-
come associated with
this new Australian in-
dustry as one of the
original shareholders in
Courtaulds (Aust.) Ltd.
Employee debentures
will give good return.
The Company intends
issuing a series of Em-
ployee Debentures which
will carry interest at
from 4% to 6%. The
plan will give employees
an added and direct
interest in the success of
the Company.
Building materials—
effect of coal strike.
Production in the fac-
tories of our Building
Materials Division has
been seriously affected
by the coal strike. The
strike also caused a
large increase in manu-
facturing costs. Pro-
duction is now generally
at an increased rate, al-
though some factories
are working well below
capacity due to shortage
of raw materials, and
the transport difficulties
of the Government Rail-
ways.
Asphalt floor tiles—
production starts.
We recently commenced
production of Asphalt
Floor Tiles, a covering
which has been in great
demand for some years
in the United States. A
varied range of colours
is being produced.
More industrial
alcohol to be
produced.
In view of the expansion
in secondary industries
using industrial alcohol,
we are making a sub-
stantial increase in the
capacity of our Sydney
and Melbourne distiller-
ies.
C.S.R.’s Varied Interests
RAW SUGAR MILLS
Capacity 350,000 tons sugar per season.
Harwood, Broadwater, Condong—in New South
Wales. '
Victoria, Goondi, Harabledon in
Queensland.
Nausori, Rarawai, Labasa, Lautoka, Penang—
in Fiji.
SUGAR REFINERIES
Capacity 600,000 tons sugar per year. Sydney.
Melbourne. Adelaide. Brisbane. Perth,
Auckland.
DISTILLERIES
Pyimont—Sydney, Yarraville —Melbourne.
SHIPPING
Ocean vessels, lifting capacity 18,000 tons.
S.S. “Rona”. S.S. “Tambua”. S.S. “Fiona”.
BUILDING MATERIALS
Cane-ite, Hardboard, Gyprock Wallboard,
Asphalt Floor Tile, and Asbestos Products fac-
tories—Sydney.
Plaster Mills —Sydney and Melbourne.
Gypsum Mines—N.S.W. and Victoria.
C.S.R. CHEMICALS LTD.
Rhodes, Sydney,
SUNDRIES
Agents for the Queensland Government.
Investments. Engineering Works—Sydney.
Pineapple Cannery—Fiji.
Yaqara Cattle Station—Fiji. Research Labora-
tory—Sydney.
SUBSIDIARIES (interest only)
Australian Blue Asbestos Limited—W.A.
Robert Corbett Pty. Limited—Sydney.
Sugar Cartage Limited—Sydney.
Output Total value of output year ended 31st March, 1949 £48,000,000
Earnings Net profit year ended 31sl March, 1949 __ £1,206,762
Copies of the full report are available on request to the Company at
1 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
C.S.R.’s wide
experience & varied
enterprises help
development.
Wide interests in Fiji,
New Zealand and Aus-
tralia, and the varied
nature of its enterprises,
have given the Company
a considerable measure
of financial stability, and
& high degree of techni-
cal skill.
D
F
Sugar Industry .
C.S.R. owns 5 raw sugar
mills im Fiji and a refin-
ery in New Zealand. In
Australia the Company
owns 5 refineries, and 7
of the 35 N.S.W. and
Queensland raw sugar
mills.
SSSSS
rnmmsm
mi
Building Materials .
C.S.R. manufactures
building boards from
cane fibres, and makes
plaster from gypsum
obtained from its own
mines. It also manufac-
tures asphalt floor tiles
and asbestos cement
sheets and roofing.
m
mt
Chemicals ,
C.S.R. research chemists,
many of them trained in
the highly scientific sugar
industry, pioneered pro-
cesses for the manufac-
ture of certain vitamins
and other pharmaceuti-
cals. C.S.R. Chemicals,
a subsidiary company,
will also manufacture
basic chemicals for the
plastic and rayon in-
dustries.
close of accounts in 1948. Over
the last couple of years (ending
March 31) recoveries have been
as follows:
1948. 1949.
tons t.o. tons t.o.
Kampa Malaya .. .. 313 377
ST- :: :: SI SI
S Kl Kampar _304 2526
Tota l 1318 3602
Clayey ground and a three-weeks
shut-down for repairs impeded
last term’s recoveries in the
Chemor sector. Yardage, aver-
age values and costs are not
published in the report.
Financial results have stepped
along in this way:
Gross Divs.
Earnings. Exes. Profit. 3 p.c.
£ £ £ £
>47.. 92,128 84,758 7,370 5,873
10 p.c.
>48.. 504,913 449,134 55,779 52,910
22£ p.c.
>49.. 1,525,737 1,213,082 312,705 119,047
Latest profit (up £256,926) was
equal to 32.5 p.c. on the £962,000
of paid capital, and the div, was
lifted from 10 p.c. to 22? p.c.,
which is worth 15.4 p.c. in Aus-
tralian currency after allowing
for English income tax of 9s. in
the £ and for exchange at the
current rate. Of the £193,658 of
the year’s net earnings that re-
mained, £130,000 was written off
restoration exes., reducing the
figure to £430,283.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £790,260 and
current liabilities, including final
div., £254,980. That leaves out
of the figuring a Government
rehabilitation loan of £564,131,
and an. unstated amount of war-
damage claims, etc., settlement
of which is expected in the near
future. Properties figured at
£349,087, and dredges and plant
at £540,523.
Of the four dredges still to be
brought into production, one,
which has been transferred
from the Penawat to the Kampar
Malaya sector, commenced dig-
ging at beginning Sept., 1949.
The other three are not expected
to be in operation before end
1950. Expenditure on this
account, and on diversion of the
Pari River, will bite into the co.’s
liquid surplus.
The London price of tin re-
mained steady at £5569 a ton
from June 1, 1948, till Sept. 26,
1949, vvhen the figure shot up
to £S7SO a ton, following de-
valuation. But the price has
dropped sharply since a free
market for the metal was estab-
lished a month or so ago. Last
weekend London quotes were
spot £5643 ss. and forward
£SSB7 10s.; they are very satis-
factory from the producer’s
point of view, despite the high
and still-rising level of costs.
But with production running
ahead of commercial consump-
tion, the future of the price-level
is obscure. If production is
pushed too far ahead of con-
sumption, producers might be
forced to resort to the quota
weapon again.
In Sydney the f.-p. ss. shares
recently fetched 16s. 6d., giving
an immediate return of 4.7 p.c.
on the basis of last term’s distri-
bution after allowing for English
income tax and exchange.
The long and expensive re-
mvestigation of the old Zeehan
field, on the West Coast of Tas-
mania, which has been con-
ducted by Zeehan Explorations,
an offshoot of North Broken
Hill and Broken Hill South, has
been rewarded at last. A silver-
lead lode in the old Oceania
mine has been penetrated to a
depth of 10ft., with ore still
underfoot, but values (unstated)
diminishing. The dimensions of
the ore-body, which is a split
lode, are said to be “up to ex-
pectations.” It is too early yet
to talk about tonnage available.
Next problem will be to devise
the most economical way of
treating what, in the past, has
always been a complex ore.
* * * *
Mountain View (W.A.) con-
tinues to crush rich ore, 1156
tons being recently put through
the Cue State Battery for 11330 z.
bullion, with an estimated 2890 z.
fine gold in the tailings, the lot
being worth approximately
£19,000. Good values are known
to exist down to water level
(540 ft.), and arseno - pyrites,
carrying free gold, has been met
with in a winze below the 520 ft.
level.
* * ♦ *
Central Norseman Gold
Corp., Norseman (W.A.), should
begin hauling ore through its
new shaft, which is about a mile
north of the old one, any day
now. This ought to quicken
and cheapen extraction from the
Princess Royal lease, where the
drill recently disclosed some
high gold values in what is be-
lieved to be a new pre-body.


UttH W®
Look
njJS
IS
...and lashings
of leisure, too!
The AGA has a Roasting Oven and
a Simmering Oven. You can stow
a 201 b. turkey in the one, and a whole meal to slow-cook
in the other and be sure of perfect results. No matter
how much you use this unique British-made cooker, it
won’t add a id. to the bills ... for the AGA is the only
cooking stove in the world whose maximum consumption
is guaranteed nof. to exceed a certain figure.
Country owners have proved that fuel costs are less than
the cost of wood, even when cut on their property.
GUARANTEED FOR 10 YEARS.
SEETHE
AGA
DEMONSTRATED AT
COOKER
LEVIN AND COMPANY LIMITED
Sole Agents for AGA Heat Storage Cooker
45 King Street, Sydney. 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
113 Grenfell Street. Adelaide.
_Cnr. Margaret & Albert Streets, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A., G. Webster & Sons Ltd.. Hobart,
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.. Perth.
AS/168
Build ... modernise with
CANE-ITE
The only structural board that decorates
as well as insulates
tf -r •
mm v
rn;-.
is
■mm
Half an inch of Cane-ite Insulates
against Summer Heat and Winter
Chill better than 16 inches of con-
crete or a brick wall 8 inches thick.
Cane-ite can be painted, or left in
its natural suede-like finish.
Sold by Hardware Dealers and
Timber Merchants.
CANE-ITE
is a product of
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
c
R
o*
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Production Depression
The Chifley Socialists always
play what they believe to be
their trump card when they are
cornered in Parliamentary de-
bate or an election campaign.
That is, they start to shed croco-
dile tears about what happened
to the “pore worker” during the
depression. This depression
story, at a pinch, can be brought
out by the Socialists as an
answer to anything at all. They
try, through repetition and the
fact that some of their own
Parliamentary members were
once “on the dole,” to hang
“the depression” exclusively
round the neck of the non-
Socialists. Apparently no non-
Socialist, in their opinion, was
ever the worse for “depression.”
In point of fact the depression
was worst in Australia during a
period when “Labor” was in
office. It was not until the
Scullins, Theodores and Langs
were thrown out by popular
opinion that Australia started to
recover from the depression.
Once the Socialists, with their
frantic “remedies” for combat-
ing the slump—they possessed
no real plans—had been turned
out of office, Australia made the
most rapid recovery of any
country in the world. Overseas
economists, with depression still
afflicting their own countries,
came to Australia to take back
reports of the results of the
Premiers’ Plan and other mea-
sures adopted by the Common-
wealth and State Governments.
Yet “Labor” never has a good
word to say about the Premiers’
Plan,
The truth is that the depres-
sion of 20 years ago came as a
shock to the majority of Gov-
ernments, whatever their politi-
cal color. It came as a shock to
most of the people. Wherever a
boom has been followed by a
slump it can be accepted
that those who paid boom
prices for anything got a
very big surprise when the
bottom soon afterwards fell out
of the market they were dabbling
in. And though The Bulletin
had for years warned Australia
that a crash was coming,
“Labor” paid less heed to such
warnings than any other section.
The depression
was used to the
utmost by militant
“Labor” and the
Communist - domin-
ated sections o f
trade-unionism in a
soulless way to
further their revo-
lutionary aims by
exploiting the misery of un-
fortunates. The noisy sections
of “Labor” —and they rapidly
dominated any “moderate”
section —were in no way
disposed to see the depres-
sion ended with social harmony
restored with the least possible
dislocation. No ; their aim was
to use the occasion to the
utmost for the propagation of
the class-war. Consequently to
this day the most distorted and
friction-creating furphies are
circulated by “Labor” and their
Communist fellow - travellers
about the depression. One might
think, listening to the Socialist-
cwm-Communist side, that Aus-
tralia alone was the victim of
the 1930 depression and that the
non-Socialist Governments of
the day alone cooked it up.
By the time the last depres-
sion was well on its way out the
economists of Australia, the
central bank and the rest of the
banking system had learned a
great deal about monetary
management where only theory
existed before. Other overseas
countries, of course, had con-
tributed their experiences to
the world fund of new economic
learning, and some of the most
valuable of this learning was in
the possession of bankers, bank
and Treasury economists and the
"Did you see a damnfool baby car come this way ,
constable?”
like. The dealing with unem-
ployment caused by major eco-
nomic crises was a problem by
no means studied exclusively by
the Socialists and Mr. J. M.
Keynes.
Every section of the free-
enterprise world was profoundly
interested, and it had become
almost generally agreed that
credit could be safely provided,
if necessary by a central bank,
for any national or private
works in respect of which it was
obvious that the country and
the community stood in reason-
able need. And it was recog-
nised that such credit should be
made available most readily in
times of industrial depression.
But it was also acknowledged
that such works and credit-
expansion would need to be
planned thoroughly in order to
determine their national eco-
nomic usefulness, and that the
workmen, who might otherwise
be unemployed, would have to
give a fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay. Without such
recognition inflation would be
inevitable. The more enlightened
economists acknowledged that
credit, in essence, retains its
old character —that, in spite of
its many manifestations and
guises, it is still merely “time to
pay,” and that only by sound
outlay of such credit can repay-
ment or renewal be ultimately
relied upon. But the Govern-
ment, in association with free
enterprise, must plan soundly.
Naturally it took a number of
years for new economic tech-
niques to be evolved. It is not so
long—a matter of a century and
a half, perhaps—since the gold
standard brought an unprece-
dented stability and scope to
world trade; and it was the
breakdown of the gold standard
following the economic up-
heaval after World War I that
was one of the chief factors in
throwing world trade out of gear.
Socialism has now intruded
into the economic picture in Aus-
tralia, It has made such a dis-
ruptive entry that it has placed
in jeopardy all the economic
and industrial technique that was
so painfully learned during the
1930’5. Inflation has occurred
on a widespread scale, and
there has been no encourage-
ment to save money—and it was
from saving in the past that most
capital investment was made
possible.
The brains of the great
trade-union movement have
been “scrambled” by the propa-
gation of socialistic nonsense
and the “class-war.” Our pro-
ductivity has deteriorated during
a period in which there has been
an Australian and a world mar-
ket for almost anything we can
produce. The 40-hour week was
introduced during a period of
production depression, and the
idea which it is necessary for
every unionist to have if he is to
be regarded as a responsible
citizen —that of a fair day’s
work for fair pay—is the last
thing in the world which the
Socialists are likely to preach—
until, at any rate, they have full
totalitarian powers.
Australia is now in danger of
sliding backwards into a depres-
sion throqgh underproduction.
The economy is propped up
precariously by many legalistic
Socialist devices, but we are ex-
tremely vulnerable to any over-
seas recession in prices. If a
crash comes we shall urgently
need a big increase in man-hour
output in order to cope with
overseas conditions.
Some of F. T. Wimble’s pound
ords. were offered on the market
after the last dividend had been
collected, and were snapped up
at 80s. each, since when there
hasn’t been a seller at less than
86s. Last year’s 19 p.c. distri-
bution, including a p.c. bonus,
was the highest since this old
business joined the Stock Ex-
change in 1936 (the year Fred
Wimble died). The div. com-
pares with an earning rate of
34.8 p.c. on ordinary capital last
year, or 30 p.c. in 1948 and an
average 24 p.c. in the five years
before that. There was a handy
addition of over £27,000 to re-
serves last term from excessive
tax allowances in the past, and
asset backing of the shares is
50s. each. Quite a big plant ex-
pansion is under way to cope
with “the increasing demand” for
the co.’s inks and printing acces-
sories, but thanks to the strong
financial position, it evidently
won’t require any extra capital.
Future earnings should benefit.
At 80s. the yield is 4.75 p.c.
on last year’s full dividend, or
4.05 p.c. without the bonus.
* * * *
To triple the present output
of its Bomaderry factory, just
outside Nowra (N.S.W.), the
Horlicks malted-milk firm is
building another just alongside it
at a cost of £250,000. A rail-
way siding is to be run into the
site from Bomaderry, th e
southern limit of the N.S.W.
lllawarra line, and it will serve
Other concerns. The new factory
is plunk in the heart of the
richest milk district in N.S.W. It
will make and pack the pro-
duct, a large proportion of which
will go to Asiatic markets, and,
with another factory in Sydney
and one in New Zealand, will
cope with the expanding export
trade. It’s a good thing for
Nowra, which claims to be the
only country town in N. S. Wales
to increase its population since
the war, and a good thing for
decentralisation.


BLOTCHY
MtP y. SKIN
'g marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointipent. It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cnticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Oiptmenf. Soap and
Talcum Powder..., 533
The Machinery
People
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
• Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
Electric Tools • Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. • All types
Saw Repairs.
MEMQR»«, t hEASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.8, Victoria.
Personal and Missing Friends.
ESTATE EBENEZER ROBERT MEYER
DECEASED.
INFORMATION is sought as to the
present whereabouts of the next-of-kin of
the above, who died at Victoria, 8.0.,
Canada, on 6th May, 1947. The next-of-
kin will be found in Australia and New
Zealand, and will be nephews and nieces
of the deceased, being children of the
following brothers and sisters of the de-
ceased, viz., Mary Florence Barker (nee
Meyer), Ellen Frederica Burrell {nee
Meyer), Alfred Ernest Meyer and Frede-
rick William Meyer, all of whom are
known to be dead, or of Charles Henry
Frederick Meyer, William Henry Meyer,
Louis Henry Meyer and Henry John
Meyer, who may themselves be alive and
entitled to a share in the estate.—WOULD
any person claiming to be or knowing the
present whereabouts of such next-of-kin
please communicate with JACKSON,
RUSSELL, TUNKS & WEST, Solicitors,
P.O. Box 176, Auckland, N.Z.
MURRAY NEXT-OF-KIN SOUGHT.
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE FOR VIC-
TORIA, who is the Administrator of the
Estate of WALTER JOSEPH MURRAY,
deacesed, wishes to trace two sisters of
the deceased whose Christian names were
KATE (or CATHERINE) AGNES and
MARGARET JULIA, or their children.
Would any person having any informa-
tion please communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 413 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Victoria.
ANY person able to give any information
about JOHN MacGREGOR, formerly of
15 Second Avenue, Glasgow, Lismore,
Brisbane, Queensland, 46 West Princes
Street, Helensburgh, 2 Cowdenhill Road,
Drumchapel, Glasgow, and 392 Scotshall
Road, Leeds, 7, and last heard of in
Sydney in 1935, are requested to com-
municate by Air Mail with MESSRS.
KENNEDY, CAMERON & ALLAN, Soli-
citors, 65 West Regent Street, Glasgow,
C. 2, Scotland.
Mining Machinery For Sale
At Evanston (120 Miles North of Southern Cross, W.A.)
COMPLETE GOLD MINING PLANT
Comprising:—
Serial
Number. Nomenclature.
655 —Drill Steel Sharpener, complete
with Dollies, Dies, Punch and Fit-
tings. Ingersoll Rand Size 24.
714—15-h.p. Crossley Diesel Engine
TSH4 Hot Bulbstart.
727 — Fraser & Chalmers crusher with
728 Fixed Jaw Spare to be fitted.
737 —35-h.p. Electric Motor Slip Ring,
1440 revs. 440 volt 75 amps 50
cycle, with Liquid Starter 3-phase
Oil Circuit Breaker.
743—Two No. 2 Gates Gyratory Crushers,
also One Eccentric Gear and Two
Crown Wheel Pinions.
754 — Steel Ore Bin 12ft. diam. by 20ft.
high, 147-ton Capacity.
755 Ruwolt Ball Mill lift, x sft., com-
plete with new Liners.
765—Kalgoorlie Foundry Ball Mill Bft.
x 4ft.
773—Dorr Bowl Duplex Classifier com-
plete.
827—Flotation Cells. “Farenwold Dur-
mott.” A complete partly as-
sembled 6-cell.
836 —Three Agitators 20ft. x Bft. com-
plete with Gear.
843 Flotation Cells (4-cell) not
assembled.
844 — Surge Agitator 12ft. x Bft. complete
with Gear.
854 Thompson Vacuum Pump 13in. x
Sin. complete.
855 — Thompson Vacuum Valve Assembly.
856 — Thompson Vacuum Set of Feathers.
871 —One Cubic Yard Concrete Mixer
complete with 5-h.p. Crossley
Diesel Engine (Portable).
932 —135-h.p. National Gas Engine com-
plete with Producer Down Draft
6ft. Wood Type complete with 2
Scrubbers Expansion Box, etc.,
Serial
Number. Nomenclature.
with Large Quantity of new Spares
direct Coupled to 110 KVA Alter-
nator 430 volt 154 amp 375 revs.
991 —Broome & Wade Compressor 200
Cubic Feet.
993 ] 104 H.P. Crossley Diesel Engine
I FO4E
994 f Coupled to 475 Cubic Feet
J “Sentinel” Compressor.
1003—“ Commercial Electric” Alternator,
56 KW 440 volt 1000 r.p.m. 50
cycle 3-phase with Switchboard.
1010 62.5 KVA Alternator 440 v. 82
amp. 333 r.p.m. 3-phase 50 cycle
with Switchboard complete with
Meters and Circuit Breaker.
1009 - Coupled to 99-h.p. Ruston Hornsby
3 Cylinder Vertical Diesel Engine
3 VXCA Class 5 with Spare (1069)
2 Main Bearings and (1070) 2
Big End Bearings.
1018 —104-h.p. Crossley Diesel Engine
(4 cyl.) Horizontal F. 0.4. Fitted
with new CAV Atomisers Starting
Compressor Sin. x Sin. and quantity
of Spare Parts.
1034 —66-h.p, Ruston Single Cylinder
Horizontal Diesel Engine 9XHR.
1046—240 Cubic Feet Kelly & Lewis Com-
pressor.
1061— Streamlined Oil Filter Size 08L.
1062 — Streamlined Oil Filter Size 03L.
1087—22-h.p. Ruston Hornsby Horizontal
Diesel Engine.
1093—32 KVA Alternator 440 v. 50 amp.
1440 revs. 50 cycle complete with
Switchboard and S]ide Rails.
1111 —Two 6in. Deep Well Pumps com-
plete with 160 ft. of Rods and
Piping.
1409 —300 Cubic Feet Refrigerator Army
Type with 2-h.p. Engine (Buzza-
cott).
COMPLETE ASSAY PLANT
and numerous other items of Mining Equipment, including:—
Electric Motors, 2-h.p. to 85-h.p.; Large Quantity Mining Stores, Wilfley Pumps,
Diamond Drills, Rock Drills, Air and Water Hoses, Shafting, Y Belt and Split Steel
Pulleys, Petrol, Diesel and Kero. Engines, Trucks, Kibbles, Steel Ropes, Hoists and
Winches, Picks and Shovels, Blacksmith Tools, Air Receivers, Arc Welding Plant,
Grinding Pans, Feed Hoppers, Launders, Amalgam Barrels,Tjßelting, Plummer Blocks,
Tanks, Piping (all sizes but Reserved for Buyers of Other Plant and Equipment),
and Thousands of Miscellaneous Items too numerous to mention.
Prices and full particulars from —
JOHN K. DIXON, Mining and General Agent,
Southern Cross, Western Australia.
N. 8.: Please quote Serial Numbers when enquiring.
Company Meeting
AUSTRALIAN ECONOMIC CONDITIONS
Bank President’s Comments
11l his review of economic conditions during the past year to the
Ordinary General Meeting of the Bank of New South Wales, the
Bank’s President, Sir Frederick Tout, made the following points:
The Dollar Crisis
The adjustments in exchange rates occurred at a time
when a decrease was expected in Australia’s record levels
of oversea trade. It is hoped that devaluation of the Aus-
tralian pound from $3.22 to $2.24 will encourage an expan-
sion in the volume of exports to America.
But a larger total of dollar receipts is by no means
assured. The prospects will depend in part on the course
of American business activity, and in part on the drive and
Initiative which the Government and private traders are
willing to show to meet the exacting competitive conditions
of the American market.
On the import side, there
is no avoiding the higher
cost in local currency which
devaluation will entail,
which will add to the al-
ready rising cost structure
of the Australian economy.
PRIMARY INDUSTRY
Primary producers ar'e en-
joying high incomes, but
without most of their bene-
fits. Taxation is skimming
off much of those profits
which were formerly
ploughed back into the
properties to increase pro-
ductivity.
Shortages of rural labour
and materials are respons-
ible for a serious decline in
the maintenance of existing
improvements. These short-
ages, too, have caused a re-
currence of the rabbit men-
ace on an alarming scale.
It is urgently necessary to
overcome these problems,
for only then will primary
production be able to utilize
improvements in method and
the results of research to
meet the return of more
competitive conditions,
against which inter-govern-
mental contracts, stabilized
marketing and official con-
trols are only an artificial
safeguard.
INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT
Investment of both over-
sea and local capital in Aus-
tralian industrial concerns
continued at a fast pace, in-
dicating confidence in long-
term development. But the
industrial structure is get-
ting rather unbalanced.
The effects of labour
shortage are greatly multi-
plied by restrictive practices
and by industrial troubles
and strikes which have their
origin in political aims
rather than in legitimate
industrial grievances. The
attitude of certain trade
union leaders, their en-
couragement of strikes and
persistent clamour 1 for
shorter hours and higher
wages, while refusing to ac-
cept responsibility for higher
output, will not hasten real
prosperity and might well
threaten employment.
Rising industrial costs
are already hampering Aus-
tralian manufacturers in
competition with imports.
But if the Government
wishes to maintain the level
of employment, it must do
so by stimulating efficiency
and lowering costs rather
than by perpetuating re-
strictive controls and rais-
ing tariffs.
PUBLIC WORKS
The high level of govern-
ment expenditure has estab-
lished a standard which
would produce a critical
situation if there was a
material fall in the national
income. As a means of tak-
ing up the slack in the event
of a depression, the Prime.
Minister has outlined a pro-
gramme of public works.
How much better it
would be for the Govern-
ment to follow the adage
that “prevention is better
than cure,” by encouraging
private enterprise and by
cutting down its own ex-
travagant expenditure,
which is making excessive
demands on our limited re-
sources of men and materi-
als. Encouragement of pri-
vate enterprise would do
more ultimately to ward off
depression than all govern-
ment restrictions and com-
peting government activi-
ties.
BANKING
Inflationary influences
are arising from export in-
comes, rising prices, and
the upward pressure of
claims for higher wages.
Central bank control of ad-
vances, though lauded by
socialists as a strong curb
on inflation, is no mor'e than
a negative weapon. No gov-
ernment can halt excesses of
either inflation or deflation
by credit policy alone.
The Government is still
intent on eliminating the
trading banks. Its obsession
with this objective is a
measure of the determina-
tion of the socialists to take
over the banks as the first
and major l step in destroying
the fabric of free enterprise
and individual liberty.
BANK OF NEW SOUTH WALES
(Incorporated in New South Wales with limited liability)
A 4937
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
The Rank “Empire”
As for many months there
have been sighs and portents of
impending disaster, the failure of
the I. Arthur Rank organisa-
tions to establish a strong and
vital film industry in Great
Britain was no surprise. But
the extent of the loss on produc-
tion (£3,350,000) shocked the
knowing as much as it did the
unaware.
Most of the excuses and ex-
planations given are true enough.
Entertainment tax at the rate of
40 per cent, is much too high.
Production costs, like houses,
are about three times the pre-
war figure. The industry has
held on too long and too stub-
bornly to its proud tradition of
extravagance. Hollywood, by
enticing away the best actors,
writers and directors, artificially
boosts high salaries. Money is
scarcer than it was two years
ago, and it may be that we have
passed the peak of prudent
taxation.
The Rank case might have
seemed stronger had fewer ex-
cuses been given: for example,
the unbroken run of fine
weather was less of a deterrent
to movie-fans than the poor
quality, on average, of the pic-
tures. It would seem that the
root cause was that the organisa-
tion set out to achieve the im-
possible, which was to build a
little Hollywood within the
purlieus of Greater London.
When the Government imposed
an import duty on American
films in the autumn of 1947
Mr. Rank confidently but over-
optimistically accepted the chal-
lenge to step in and show his
team’s paces. It is true that he
suffered a reverse six months
later when, after Mr. Eric
Johnston’s representations, Mr.
Harold Wilson, president of the
Board of Trade, went above his
head and allowed America to
take up to 17,000,000-dollars’
worth of earnings a year. But
shrewder minds among other
producers here had already fore-
seen this when they had earlier
opposed the import duty.
The bread-and-butter of the
film trade depends upon the slick
and mechanical picture of
the take-the-masses-away-from-
themselves type, and Hollywood
is vastly better equipped for
making these than is Britain.
Moreover, American films are in
their own right assured of a
British market. The reverse is
unfortunately not yet true, not-
withstanding the success of some
prestige films (“Hamlet,” “The
Red Shoes,” “Quartet,” etc.).
North America, with its great
population, also allows higher
production costs, while a British
film costing £150,000 will be
lucky to pay its way.
Crazy Unionism
Another factor in production
that threatens to strangle the
industry as well as to rocket the
costs i§ the overaddiction to
unionism among its technicians.
Imagine a closely-knit and inter-
dependent community (like, for
instance, a ship’s company).
Take the direct opposite, carry
it to absurdity, and the result
isn’t far from the extravaganza
that often is to be found in film
studios. A short out-of-doors
sequence that would seem to
need only a small technical
team of a cameraman, an elec-
trician and a couple of assistants
develops into a small army of
petty experts. On the floor the
“props” man may remove inani-
mate furniture from the set, but
a plant or a vase of flowers con-
stitutes “living” properties.
Shooting must be held up while
the gardener is found and
fetched. With enormous stand-
ing “floor” costs, stupid and ill-
considered strikes have added
thousands of pounds to the bill.
Some degree of interchange
among the technical staff would
be at once economical and in-
vigorating ; but it is question-
able whether the unions would
co-operate.
The future is uncertain. Mr.
Rank i§ carrying on with pro-
duction until the middle of next
year. Of the main studios.
Shepherd’s Bush has been
bought by the 8.8. C. for tele-
vision ; Islington is closed and
its contents auctioned ; and Den-
ham, Britain’s largest, can take
four pictures, but now has only
three and no bookings yet for
next year ; at Pinewood only one
picture is being shot. Not many
years ago the British film trade
was a laughing-stock. Since
then many fine films have come
from British studios, some of
whose producers have won
world-wide reputations. There’s
no reason at all why the in-
dustry should not prosper, if it
will first put its own house in
order and then conduct itself
modestly but with vigor.
Theatre
The much - abused “com-
mercial” theatre is in the news
at present, both as assailant and
assailed. A minor war is raging
over “The Streetcar Narrfed
Desire,” which, as a “cultural”
play put on by a non-profit-
making concern, enjoys im-
munity from entertainment tax.
The play’s particular virtues
(or, according to another point
of view, its vices) have made it
the biggest “draw” since the
war. West End and touring
managers (who between them
may pay as much as £4,000,000
a year in entertainment tax) are
asking for an investigation to be
made on a high level, and claim
that “Streetcar” ought never to
have received the blessing of the
Arts Council. Meanwhile, they
affirm, the play continues to
reap a tax-free benefit at the
rate of £40,000 a year.
Mr. J. B. Priestley recently
expressed himself very forcibly
on the West End theatre, which,
he said, was not only dead but
decomposing. It would be a
good thing, he continued, if the
entire theatre went bankrupt so
that it could start again free of
parasites. Whatever may be the
grounds for truth in these and
other grudging remarks, it is not
forgotten that Mr. Priestley has
suffered two bad flops in succes-
sion. Although the second
failure was undeserved, these
strictures would undoubtedly
have carried greater force had
they been spoken by someone
else.
Theatre-lovers here are more
likely to be upset over another
failure, one of the best and
truest of the little theatres. “The
Bolton’s,” operating from a con-
verted house in South Kensing-
ton, is in the receiver’s hands
after a valiant record of plays
distinguished by artistic sin-
cerity, professional finesse and
low production costs. It has at
least given encouragement to
new writers and actors which
has led sometimes to success
elsewhere. A major contribution
to its difficulties is a sum of
£7OOO paid out over two years
in entertainment tax. One is
forced to wonder what is, and
what is not, “culture.”
Amateur dramatic societies
everywhere must envy the Lon-
don Rotary Players, whose suc-
cessive productions fill the Scala
Theatre to capacity. With mem-
bers drawn from the 80 Rotary
Clubs in Greater London, casting
is near - professional. The
Rotarians, who have won recog-
nition for their artistry, also
make a good profit on their
shows. Their 25th venture, “The
Good Companions,” represents
a jubilee of confident strength,
for it needs a cast of 40, plus
supers, and there are 14 changes
of scene.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Thanksgiving Day, which commemo-
rates the harvesting of the first crop sown
by the Pilgrim Fathers, was celebrated in
grand style by Melbourne’s American
colony. First of the day’s celebrations
was the luncheon in the Town Hall given
by the Australian-American Association.
In the absence of the president, R. G.
Casey, Wesley Ince deputised and pro-
posed the toast of the King and the
President of the U.S.A., and introduced
the guest-speaker, Miss G. Le May,
Director of the U.S. Information Library
here. Red roses, carnations and maiden-
hair fern decorated the official table, while
on the smaller tables were sprays of red
and blue flowers. Of course the tradi-
tional turkey was served. With Wesley
Ince was his wife, who wore a black
tailored suit, sables and a small black
rolled-brim hat trimmed with black
ospreys. Miss Le May topped her bur-
gundy wool frock with a jacket of black
Indian-lamb ; her tiny natural straw hat
had a fluted brim. At the official table
were Lady Dixon and the U.S. Consul-
General S. J. Fletcher, and Mrs. Fletcher,
her upswept navy baku straw hat worn
with a navy jacket suit.
Mrs. George Jones, wife of Air-Marshal
Jones, wore a mignonette-green jacket
suit and a natural straw wheat-trimmed
hat. Mrs. R. F. Ramey, wife of the U.S.
Military Attache, added a feather toque
to her slate-blue wool suit. Others at the
official table were G. R. Davies, president
of the American Club, and his wife, and
Mr. and Mrs. W. W. Killough—the latter
is president of the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Children’s Hospital.
Colonel Karl Baldwin, who served in
Australia as an American Consular repre-
sentative during the war years, was at the
luncheon with his v^fe —they plan to be
in this country for six months. Busy
saying good-bye, but insistent that she
will return, was Mrs. Carl J. Rauff, who
with her husband returns to America
shortly. Her royal-blue suit was worn
with a cerise silk blouse and natural straw
hat. Mrs. Ted Scorfield, who is secretary
of the Sydney women’s group of the Aus-
tralian-American Association, was smartly
turned out in a beige ensemble and black
osprey-trimmed hat.
Late in the afternoon members of the
American Club, the Australian-American
Association and the American Women’s
Auxiliary to the Children’s Hospital
attended a Thanksgiving Day service at
St. Paul’s, at which the Dean of Mel-
bourne was the preacher. Then, to round
off the day, the American Club gave a
dinner in the Venetian Court of the Aus-
tralia. Here murals depicted scenes of
early colonial life in America ; “harvest”
vegetables and sheaves of oats decorated
the band platform, while tiny stocks of
oats and miniature models of turkeys
were used on individual tables. Glen
Davies, president of the club, and his
wife entertained official guests at their
table. The U.S. Consul-General and Mrs.
S. J. Fletcher were with Colonel R. F.
Ramey, his wife and daughter, Mr. and
Mrs. A. E. Hotchkiss and Leon Phillips.
“The Gondoliers,” beautifully dressed
and presented, opened the Gilbert and
Sullivan Opera season at His Majesty’s.
Evelyn Gardiner, as the Duchess of
Plaza Toro, wore a magnificent crinoline
gown of rose velvet trimmed with bands
of white ermine. Casilda, her daughter,
played by Muriel Howard, wore in the
first scene a demure crinoline gown of
white muslin contrasted with a parma-
violet tulle scarf and muff, and her white
poke bonnet was lined with violet. In the
second act her blue taffeta gown, made
over a wide crinoline, was trimmed with
silver lace, and tiny posies of roses were
scattered over the skirt. Among the
audience were Mrs. M. A. Alexander,
whose blue mink stole was worn over a
dove-grey pleated frock with its embel-
lishment of silver-bead trimming; Mrs.
M. M. Belik, in a gold-embroidered sea-
green crepe gown, and small evening hat
of pale-gold taffeta ; Mrs. A. E. Griffiths,
her period gown of turquoise-blue em-
broidered silk taffeta; Lady Wales, in
floral gown and dyed-ermine coat; Mrs.
Frank Tait, her black formal skirt topped
with an off-the-shoulder bodice of black-
and-white-striped taffeta; Mrs. Albion
Walkley, in a trained gown of black
crepe; Mrs. A. E. Kimpton, a blue-fox
jacket covering her sequin-trimmed black
crepe gown; Mrs. L. J, Calloway, in
aqua-blue lace ; Mrs. J. Bowen Pain, black
faille and grey squirrel her choice ; and
Mrs. Con Charlton, whose black gown
carried an imprint of gay flowers.
Australia’s first fashion-fair exclusive
to Australian designs, to be held at the
Exhibition Building, Melbourne, from
February 16 to March 4, is being
organised by the Australian Guild of
Fashion Designers. Leading manufac-
turers from Melbourne and Sydney, in
all sections of the industry, will take part.
Mrs. Kenneth Cole, formerly Madame
Caroline Chambrelent, who first brought
Paris fashions, complete with French
mannequins, to this country, has been
appointed fashion director of the fair —
her experience with the house of Worth
eminently fits her for this position. She
will direct the parades, supervise the
fashion presentation and color co-
ordination. Eight leading mannequins
from all the capital cities have been
selected for the modelling.
Beautifully decorated, Wesley College
Chapel was the setting for the marriage
of lliff (Bunty), elder daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. F. R. Lee, of Toorak, to Captain
Kenneth William Newton, M.C., only son
of Mr. and Mrs. W- E. Newton, of
Essendon. The bride’s gown of pearl-
white slipper satin had a fitted bodice,
magyar sleeves and very full skirt sweep-
ing into a train. Her tulle veil was held
with a Guipure lace pillbox headdress
studded with pearls, and she carried a
bouquet of white roses and orchids. Her
sister, Mrs. Kenneth McKenzie, Mrs.
Simon Grieg and Sonia Schlesinger were
the bride’s attendants. They wore pearl-
white taffeta gowns with panniers and
tight little jackets fastening down the
front with pearl-studded buttons and caps
of satin leaves, and carried bouquets of
lilac-toned rhododendrons, delphiniums
and stephanotis. The best man, Captain
Robert Lawrence, and groomsmen
Captains Bruce McDonald and Kenneth
McKenzie were, like the ’groom, all
former Duntroon cadets.
At the reception at the Hotel Windsor
Mrs. Lee received the guests in a French-
shot corded silk frock and a small match-
ing toque veiled with black tulle. Mrs.
W. E. Newton’s orchid-pink frock carried
a black flower pattern ; her hat was of
black baku straw. Black ospreys flew
from the small black hat Mrs. F. Gilbert
wore with her. black faille jacket-suit.
Cinnamon-brown crepe was worn with
a small natural-straw hat trimmed with
white daisies and matching ribbon by Mrs.
Gordon Newton. The bridegroom’s sister,
Mrs. W. Bott, added to her sage-green-
pleated frock an upturned natural straw
hat with a pink rose trimming. Sue
Annear’s grey lace was made in a bal-
lerina style. Mrs. Dick Doyle’s black
velvet eggshell cap was edged with pearls
and worn with a black frock. Mrs.
Bernard Evans’s beige lace dinner gown
had a draped shoulder-line.
The Australian Air Force Women’s
Association have had a splendid year.
This was greatly in evidence when their
annual meeting took place in the Lower
Town Hall. So impressed were members
with the job Mrs. E. C Wackett had
done as president that she was voted
back again for the coming year. Mrs.
J. W, Black, who has for years been
the hon. secretary, had to resign, for
with her husband, Group-Captain Black,
she is going to the training school at
Wagga (N.S.W.), A silver salver, suit-
ably inscribed, was presented to her as a
token of appreciation. As well as work-
ing for the scholarship fund for children
of deceased Air Force personnel, mem-
bers have sent 227 food parcels to Britain
during the past 12 months, and to the
Melbourne District Nursing Fund they
donated £42. The Amberley (Q.)
branch sent £lOO to the scholarship fund,
and Archerfield, Ballarat, Darwin and
East Sale, Townsville, Wagga and Laver-
ton branches have all done their share
for the fund. When the meeting closed
Mrs. Wackett entertained members at
afternoon-tea.
From Sydney
Lord Mayor O’Dea and his friendly
little Mayoress have the true art of being
a host and hostess. Brightness and good-
fellowship seem to blow in through the
windows of the civic drawing-rooms when
they give a party. Last week’s reception
to the Shakspeare Memorial Theatre
company brought theatre-minded Sydney
to the Town Hall, everybody anxious to
greet Diana Wynyard and Anthony
Quayle, and the members of the com-
pany which had already brought the
dazzle and glitter of “Much Ado About
Nothing” to the Tivoli stage. Diana at
close range lived up to her reputation for
good looks. She wore a slim little black
linen suit and on it a spray of frangipani.
Her hat was a tiny casque of off-white
feather with a little gold bird peering over
the right ear. Mrs. O’Dea’s frock was of
patterned black-and-white silk, and her
hat was a soft off-the-face white straw'.
Sir Angus Gillan, of the British
Council, and Lady Gillan were there;
so were Mr. and Mrs. Van Towsey
and Mr. and Mrs. D. D. O’Connor. Mr,
and Mrs. C. R. McKerihan were among
the many who had seen the play the
previous night. Mrs. R. J. F. Boyer,
the Ernest Lashmars, Harry Thomas,
Shakspeare Society chieftain, Evelyn
Tildesley of the British Drama League,
and importants from all the city’s cultural
groups were among the guests. A pretty
girl was Lorna Whitehouse, the Ursula of
the play. Her soft grey frock was draped
to one side. Her small hat had a scarf of
grey-blue chiffon. During the early after-
noon Diana and Anthony held up the re-
ceiving-line by dashing across the corridor
to the balcony of the Town Hall, where
the combined public-school choirs were
lifting their voices in song. Diana de-
clared she had never before heard so
many young voices lifted in unison.
Herewith Carolyn Adair, who takes
the tuneful part of Laurey in “Okla-
homa,” the show which opened to a
packed audience at the Royal last night.
As Carolyn has studied dancing since
childhood, she shines in a production that
has such intriguing ballet design.
"Oklahoma” brings a slightly pungent
atmosphere of tobacco-leaf into musical
comedy. Its songs blend with the witty
and sometimes earthy story, which, of
course, is set in the State of Oklahoma
in days before the auto. Anyone hear-
ing the show doesn’t have to consult the
crystal to know why such songs as
“Beautiful Morning” and “A Surrey with
a Fringe on Top” have become a riot.
Tasmanians longing for their native
land should pop into the Grosvenor
Galleries in George-street North and
spend a joyful half-hour with the
Kenneth Jack paintings and drawings.
This exhibition was opened by Mrs. Helen
Blaxland last week. Mr. Jack, who was
a pupil of John Rowell at Melbourne
Tech, and is art master at Upwey High
School in the Dandenongs, has a talent
for the architectural aspects of his art.
Here are old Hobart buildings, pic-
turesque bits of Sydney and Melbourne.
The National Gallery had already bought
three of the works before the show
opened. The galleries fluttered with
summery frocks, and with her light silk
suit Mrs. Blaxland wore a small lacquer-
red hat. Mrs. M. Darling’s black-and-
white-patterned silks struck a cool note
on the arid day.
Douglas Pratt, noted for his exquisite
pencil drawings, Erik Langker, president
of the Royal Art Society, and the Consul
for Denmark, Henning Hergel, were three
of the tallest men present. Mr. Hergel
told of a film showing young Danish sea-
cadets being trained in sailing ships to
become officers. He said that the film
would be accompanied by issues of iced
Danish beer. All who listened made
hasty note of the time and place—the
Shell Theatrette.
Shakspeare in an Italian-Spanish Opera
setting. That’s the flavor of “Much Ado
About Nothing,” which opened at the
Tivoli last week. But, after all, the play is
set in Messina of the Middle Ages. Here
on the stage are the rose, the orange,
the purple-reds of the Italian Renaissance,
rather like a bit of the Uffizi Gallery
come to life. Here are heaped bustle
and dazzle and glitter, for some almost
to the smothering of the winged thought
of the writer. Against the bright color-
ing Diana Wynyard walks in loveliness
and glorious raiment, no frock more
captivating than the one of primrose,
greens and yellows in which she makes
her entrance.
In the midst of a crackerjack storm
Sydney first-night addicts poured into the
Tivoli foyer. But the women had risen
above the elements, and arrived bejewelled
and in their best frocks. It was after
eight, the opening hour, when the Anthem
played-in the Governor, Lieut.-General
John Northcott, daughter Elizabeth and
a party from Government House. Prob-
ably they had been weatherbound, too.
Admired was Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere’s
clinging black crepe frock, the bodice
draped off one shoulder; and Mrs.
Charles Lloyd Jones’s frock of sky-after-
rain blue lace and tulle —picturesque
enough to have joined the company on
the stage. With her were her husband,
Mr. Charles Lloyd Jones, fair-haired son
Charles, and Australia’s Chief Justice
John Latham. Mrs. James Dickson was
tall and slim in finely-pleated white
chiffons, her long earrings a diamond
glitter almost to tjie shoulder. Mrs.
Charles Walton’s red velvets had the
richness of geranium. Mrs. Robert Mor-
ley, who came with Mrs. James Dickson’s
party, was very pretty in beflowered
chiffons.
Mrs. Florence Taylor, in black, was
among those who remembered other
Shakspearian nights. Mrs. A. H. Chartres,
in almond-green crepes, slim-fitting, and
Mrs, D. D. O’Connor, in black moire,
were seen in the foyer crush. Kathleen
Robinson of the Minerva was another
well-known. Mrs. C. R. McKerihan was
one of the bright company, and, like
this Letter, doted on Dogberry. Quiet
elegance was the note of Mrs. Roy Buck-
land’s dressing. Slim and graceful was
her frock of black crepe; the bodice
and hipline were softly swathed, the neck
was cut square.
Dr. Gregory Roberts, well-known eye
surgeon, is going in for politics, and is
standing for the Senate. This is in the
belief, no doubt, that the “eyes” have it.
From Montreal to Canberra, with
pencil-points of Greece and France in
between, from the cheapness of electric
power in Canada to the glory of the roses
at Canberra, ranged the talk over the tea-
cups last Wednesday when Mrs. LaFleche,
wife of the newly-arrived Minister for
Canada in Australia, entertained Sydney
newspaperwomen at an intimate after-
noon-party. Mrs. LaFleche, whose
blonde good-looks, -ease of manner
and varied conversation will make her the
Heaven-sent guest at many a Canberra
dinner-party, was assisted by daughter
Denyse. Teenage Denyse, slim and
straight as a willow wand, has a passion
for ice-skating. She likes the Australian
scene and admires the vista around the
Cotter River.
A military display picked out by
floodlights under a night sky makes a
stirring and spirited scene. Last Thurs-
day, Friday and Saturday nights the ring
at the Royal Agricultural Showground
throbbed* to martial music and martial
tread —no display more applauded than
the march of the Toy Soldiers. Members
of the 45th Machine-gun Battalion (the
St. George Regiment) presented this
number, captivating the young of all ages
with their white-belted tunics, white
trousers and tall busbys complete with
black chin-strap. Magnificent were the
fireworks, appealing the great cross formed
of hundreds of Red Cross and St. John
V. As. singing “Abide With Me.” G.O.C.
Eastern Command, Lieut.-General Berry-
man (who was accompanied by Mrs.
Berryman), took the salute. On Friday
night it was taken by the Governor, Lieut.-
General John Northcott, and on Satur-
day night by the Governor-General, Mr.
McKell.
Blithesome ending to a colorful week
was “The Marriage of Figaro” at the
Conservatorium last Saturday. Against
Bill Constable’s backgrounds, and obvi-
ously delighting in their costumes of the
period, made, for the most part, under
producer Hilda Mulligan’s direction,
students of the Con. Opera school played
and sang. This glittering cobweb of light-
hearted intrigue woven to the early-mom-
ing freshness of Mozart’s music held the
Con. audience in its spell. Ronal Jack-
son’s Count and Mollie Grouse’s Countess
looked their parts. Bill Diamond’s Figaro
was a dashing fellow, and he and Susanna
(Nerissa Niblo) had the good wishes of
all in their wooing. The opera will be
repeated tomorrow night and on Saturday,
Monday and Wednesday.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
SACKSCHH 4
OSUUJY/V>f
IRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson. Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS Z Z PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
*IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Rupture
Sufferers —try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
FREE
1 Call or send stamp for
* FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and U days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
WHERE
Cdcalatws MOVE —MERCHANDISE moves
°*e op c,
*”V oes ’°*
- 1 .*»*** , , * , * SI ‘ , uto
,
SALES Climb WHEN CUSTOMERS RIDE
ON OtiS ESCALATORS
This Otis escalator installation at Boans Ltd.,
Perth, W.A., extends a pleasant invitation to
customers to see other floors ... to see more
merchandise ... to buy more.
Escalators promote inter-floor circulation,
provide ground-floor accessibility to lower-
ground or upper floors.
Put motion into your sales promotion plans
with Otis escalators—your local Otis office
will he glad to survey your store and give
you the facts.
m
:*s
ml
s
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
ADELAIDE;
BRISBANE;
MELBOURNE:
♦*
SYDNEY;
M
H
PERTH;
Myer Emporium
(S.A.) Ltd
McWhirters Ltd
Myer Emporium Ltd. ...
Manton & Sons Ltd. ....
Anthony Hordern &
Sons Ltd
David Jones Ltd
Mark Foy’s Ltd
Boons Ltd.
ASSOCIATE COMPANIES: UNITED KINGDOM • UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA
FRANCE
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Much Ado About
Nothing."
Shakspeare—to follow Dog-
berry’s principle in avoiding
blasphemy—Shakspeare at Syd-
ney Tivoli is every bit as de-
lightful entertainment as his most
sparkling straight comedy, a fine
combination of players and a
striking presentation could be
expected to provide.
It is a brilliant show, very
happily hit off ; by any enter-
tainment standards, thorough
enjoyment.
Perhaps surprising enjoyment
fits the case better. Anyway,
there is plenty of the surprising
about it. You expect the Shak-
speare Memorial Theatre Com-
pany, Stratford-upon-Avon, to
be a really good company of
Shakspeare players, individually
and as a combination, and so
they are. You expect them,
with a name and address like
that, to give you untampered,
undiluted Shakspeare; as they
do. And, as an armchair enjoyer
of “Much Ado,” you expect
Benedick and Beatrice to be both
delightful and convincing; as
Anthony Quayle and Diana
Wynyard have no trouble ac-
complishing.
But, sparkling reading as
it is, who hasn’t had his doubts
about the entire Claudio-Hero
set-up, if about no other part?
Taking nothing away from the
polished performances of the
leads —who have, after all, the
gifts of (as for) two of the
brightest roles in all Shakspeare
comedy—it’s a most agreeable
surprise to have Laurencq Payne
give you a Claudio, in the
heroic-lover vein, who is both
feasible and tolerable. In the
reading that, ” for one thing,
surely must have seemed next
to impossible.
There could be some doubt,
too, about the clowning—always
a very doubtful quantity both
in read Shakspeare and in Shak-
speare' as almost always done
. . . using done, as it has to be
used, in the done sense of the
word. Whether or not Dogberry
is really as good as the rest of
the audience demonstrably rated
him on the night this scribe saw
the show, the fact is that George
Rose in the role that evening
fairly broke the house out of
almost a state of awe. They
had till then been watching a
Shakspeare play; Dogberry took
them into it; they hung on his
words; for the first time they
burst into applause, and there-
after they seemed to enjoy any-
thing and everything with a new
relish.
The staging of the piece is
also one of the surprises. It is
done in three parts, without
curtains for the scenes ; walk-on
players, like a dumb chorus,
moving the scenes as the show
goes on —in fact, contributing
quite a lot to keeping its con-
tinuity.
Add an admirable Don Pedro
(Harry Andrews), a most
amusingly villainous Don John
(Clement McCallin), a quaint
little Hero (Pat Sandys), a very
convincing young Borachio (Paul
Hardwick) and his most vilely
evil-looking sparring partner
Conrade (Robert Shaw), and the
rest of them adequate —and the
sum of it is a very choice hour
or two of enjoyment.
Old Houses.
Kenneth Jack’s watercolors
and pen-drawings at Sydney
Grosvenor Galleries are chiefly
concerned with old houses in
Hobart and Sydney. In their
meticulous accuracy they have
the value of Ure Smith’s and
Hardy Wilson’s drawings as a
historical record.
But many of the watercolors
—and some pen-and-wash draw-
ings, such as the luminous “St.
Helen’s,” a stretch of boats and
water in Tasmania —go beyond
architectural and historical
exactitude into a kind of poetry ;
oddly enough, since men and
women are absent, into a human
poetry, with qualities of grace
and drama.
In “Mt. Wellington, from
Dynnyrne,” for instance, where
hard, stony-grey cottages are set
above cold green paddocks
against a background of crags
still formidably rocky under the
blue haze of distance, something
is said not only about topo-
graphy but about the austerity
of life in high country. The
hard houses take the place of
people; they are the artist’s
symbols of humanity.
When this same mixture of
artistic and historical impulses
is applied to houses in the old
colonial style the impression is
of aristocratic grace. As well
as the hard architectural outline,
which is enough for a plain his-
torical record, there is a feeling
for the elegance of a vanished
way of life. Nobody ever steps
alive out of the old buildings,
yet the impression persists that
life is shut away inside them. It
is, of course, the artist’s own
emotion that walks behind the
closed doors and the vacant
windows ", how it gets there is a
mystery; it lights no fires, it
never dances to a ghostly music ;
but it is there.
Once, at least, Kenneth Jack
does light up an old house; and
with more than a cold and wary
emotional sympathy. That is in
an exquisite little watercolor,
“Evening, Battery Square
Hobart.” Here somebody is still
living in the old cottage he has
painted, and the touch of
humanity shows in the pink cur-
tain of the window in the lower
story and the green curtain on
the upper window —beautiful
little notes of color and life.
There is, too, a remarkably deli-
cate evening sky in this paint-
ing.
Kenneth Jack should never
have exhibited the group of oils
included in this show. They are
saccharine in color, fuzzy in
technique: a medium the artist
has completely failed to conquer.
But there is no doubt about the
quality of the watercolors and
line-drawings, examples of which
have been bought for the Mel-
bourne and Sydney National
Galleries.
Enid Cambridge.
There is hardly enough
variety among Enid Cambridge’s
watercolors at Sydney Mac-
quarie Galleries to remove the
impression that the artist has
only one thing to say—a single
note to contribute to the multi-
tudinous possibilities of art —
but at least she shows this year
that her theme is capable of
variations.
Her style of watercolor, deriv-
ing originally from Cezanne and
modified by some contemporary
English influences, has consisted
in the past of the application
of a single formula to the land-
scape.
But this year “Boat Sheds,”
with its mass of green and yel-
low foliage, is not at all like
“Country Orchard” with its
orange-red road running—almost
bounding—among low trees of
pink and dark-green, and “Dark
Interior,” with its polished fur-
niture in a room and a vista
of trees and sky from the win-
dow, is different again. “De-
lungra” has a soft sky and a
spaciousness new in Enid Cam-
bridge’s work, and “Dry Grass”
is a lovely harmony in grey and
blue.
There has been, apparently, a
simultaneous modification of
technique and of mood. The
general effect is of patchiness
changing to harmony, harshness
changing to lyricism, poverty to
opulence.
* * * *
Oils by pupils and former
pupils of Desiderius Orban
showing at David Jones’s Gal-
lery, Sydney, are characterised
as a whole by breadth, solidity,
and too much greasy paint.
Bruce Armstrong has a large,
bold canvas in the style of Van
Gogh; A. Clarke has some nice
trees floating in “McMahon’s
Point” above an implacable dis-
tance that refuses to recede from
them; Francis N. Cullen’s
“Trundle,” though grey and
lidhtless, looks in its breadth
and strength like a promising
basis for landscape ; Oscar Ed-
wards, beside a ridiculously
childish “Pacific Raider,” has
some flowers in a terracotta jug
which, if they don’t look quite
like flowers, do look like pleas-
ingly quiet terracotta; Joy
Ewart has some pleasant she-
oaks in sunlight as brown as
varnish; Mabel Hawkins gets
a good atmospheric effect in a
chunky lump of the Harbor;
Helen F. Kershaw has rich color
around some “Boatsheds” ;
Margaret Pierce lights up some
dreary buildings of “The Rocks,
Sydney,” with sunlit grass and
laundry ; and Z. Stedman has a
“Head of a Girl” which, if sur-
prisingly green, is as courageous
as a girl with a green face
would need to be to get through
life and art.
Bernard Heinze.
Bernard Heinze kept his two
best cards up his sleeve for the
tenth and final concert of the
1949 subscription series at the
Melbourne Town Hall. They
were the Beethoven pianoforte
concerto No. 4, in G Major,
Op. 58, with Maureen Jones, of
Sydney, at the piano, and the
Ninth Symphony, whose great
choral section brought the Mel-
bourne Philharmonics into the
proceedings. Miss Jones is
small, 21, and extraordinarily
relaxed at the piano, and it was
a remarkable spectacle to see
her seejningly frail arms direct-
ing her fingers so powerfully
through the different moods of
the concerto. How strange this
piece must have seemed to the
composer’s contemporaries. It
violated all preconceived con-
ceptions of the concerto. It
doesn’t seem strange now, and
the vigorous argument between
the strings and the piano in the
second movement could be
savored in a beautiful perform-
ance.
The highlight of the evening
was the outburst of song in the
symphony finale. The Ormond
professor worked up his
orchestral forces to the great
moment when it seems inevitable
that the human voice must come
in with great cunning, and the
vast Ode to Joy was passed from
choir to soloists Thea Phillips,
Trudy Daunt, John Dudley and
Alan Eddy and back again with
tremendous feeling.
"Benghazi. "
The Kiwis have reached
“Benghazi”; but the long trip
is beginning to tell, particularly
on those who’ve stopped with
them at “Alamein” and
“Tripoli.” The enthusiasm is
still there, but so are the same
old acts. Terry Vaughan’s Pro-
fessor Popoffski is a master-
piece of clowning mimicry, and
bears repetition, as does John
Hunter’s monologue—but not
the Boer War jokes ; not three
times, anyway.
(Continued on page 35.)


The PARKFORBIDDEN
by GLORIA RAWLINSON
THE township of Orawai was founded
in the ’sixties by four families —■
the McCleavers, Gaits, McHales
and MacDougals. They were
emigrants by compulsion. Old Jean Mc-
Cleaver had been an infant-in-arms
when they had left their homes, but she
claimed to remember the day when they
had all shut their doors for the last time
and gathered at the kirkyard to take a
last farewell of the graves of their
kindred.
By one ruthless eviction a score of
families had been banished from their
glen. Some of them went to Australia,
and some reached the backwoods of
Canada. The four families settled in
Orawai and became a prosperous com-
munity. Of course they intermarried and
had so many children that the school-
roll always had several Jean and Andrew
McCleavers, lan Gaits, Rob McHales
and Sandy MacDougals.
Sometimes it was difficult to grasp
which Jean McCleaver was the subject of
conversation. “Not Old Jean, but Luckie
Galt’s Sandy’s wife who was Old Jean’s
Jennie’s eldest, but dinna’ get her mixed
with Ellen McHale’s Jean McCleaver, for
she was but Jean McHale who married
Old Jean’s second’s Andrew, if you ken
what I mean.”
Though reserved in general society the
four families lived on the most friendly
terms. All except the last generation
kept a faint Scots accent. The word
stranger was to them synonymous with
impostor. Visitors were always in con-
stant fear of offending some prejudice
. or running counter to some prepossession.
THE first Andrew McCleaver had died
a very wealthy man. There was a
statue of him on the Coast-road. In life
he had been six feet three —the statue
was twelve feet six. He looked alarmingly
pugnacious standing there, a rampant lion
on each side of him. He was dressed
in kilts and Glengarry and held up his
hands as if blessing McCleaver’s Park on
the other side of the road. A large
plaque informed any impostor who had
the temerity to go up to the gates and
read it:
This Park is the generous gift of
Andrew McCleaver for the exclusive use
of the descendants of the pioneers—of
this district.
The last three words had been added
by the custodian of the Park, Rob Mc-
Hale, after a brush with
a Galt who had been
caught taking an im-
postor for a stroll under
the puriri-trees. “Canna’
ye read?” he bellowed.
“Your friend’s no’ de-
scendant of pioneers.
Take her oot of Mc-
Cleaver’s Park.”
But the Galt had
laughed at him. “Oh, yes,
she is. Uncle Rob, for
her people came here in
the ’forties. She’s a
right to walk in here
with me.”
At the next meeting of
the board of trustees
McHale was given per-
mission to add the last
three words. “For,” he said, “I know
well what Andrew meant. He just didna’
want strangers in his Park.”
The board had, from time to time,
relaxed its rigid rule, but only when
strangers became the wives or husbands
of the descendants of the original families
and their names were duly noted in the
custodian’s register.
“I don’t want to belong to the croquet
club,” an English bride told her Mac-
Dougal husband, “That awful old man
always stares hard at my shoes as if he
thinks I am bringing in something that
will contaminate the holy ground of Mc-
Cleaver’s Park. And Mrs. Sandy Galt
told me that Andrew McCleaver always
frightened the life out of her when she
was a child, he was so religious and stern
and faultfinding.”
HER husband agreed that Andrew
McCleaver had frightened everyone
except his own wife. But then Old Jean
had never been afraid of anyone or any-
thing. She had met the devil himself
one dark night and had not been at all
nervous. One Hallowe’en her cousins,
just to see if for once they could get her
shaking with terror, dressed Sandy Galt
up in a calfskin, tail and all. They stuck
two horns on his forehead, blackened
his face, put a pointed beard on his chin
and gave him a pitchfork to carry. He
waylaid Jean McCleaver on her way home
alone on the lonely Two Creek-road.
“I want you, Jean McCleaver!” the
devil croaked at her.
She held up her hurricane lantern.
“Why, so it’s you! And what would you
want with me, puir de’il?”
“I want your soul, Jean, I want your
soul.”
“Well, I suppose there’s no harm in
wanting, but you can’t have it.”
She put down the lantern and fumbled
in her basket.
“You puir thing, you puir ill-featured
sinner! Here’s a cake for your supper,
and maybe your sad wife and children
could do with feeding up—for there’s
little enough work in the district for the
likes of yourself. Here, take the basket,
and guid night to you, you puir mis-
guided crittar.”
She found her empty basket on the
lawn next morning and ever afterwards
had a good word to say for the prince of
darkness. “He makes a peck of mischief,
yon de’il, but he’s an honest body. He
returned ma basket.”
NOW in her eighty-eighth year Old
Jean was the most influential person
in Orawai. She knew it and liked it. But
she was not a bullying old lady. Her
step was brisk, her eyes
bright, her voice full of
spirit, her words ripe
with wisdom,, rich with
wit.
Her favorite great-
grandchildren were
Lesley and Dougal
MacDougal. She sym-
pathised with Lesley,
who was having great
difficulty in persuading
her parents that the
local schoolteacher was
not an impostor but a
very earnest and honor-
able young man. She
sympathised with young
Dougal because she
shared his opinion that
McCleaver’s Park should be thrown open
to all residents of the district.
Dougal and the ancient custodian of
the park were bitter enemies, and seldom
a week went by without ill words be-
tween them. At five years of age Dougal
had been turned out of the park for
taking his calf along the avenue that led
to the playing-fields.
“You, wee Duggie, isn’t it? Ye can’t
bring yon animal here. This place is for
the descendants of pioneers only. Ye
can stay if ye’ve a mind, but chase yon
coo away.”
“This isn’t a cow, Uncle Rob, it’s a
bobby calf and his mother was Uncle
Jock’s Daphne.”
“Get oot of the park and take your
beastie wi’ ye! Look at your own
great-grandpa watching you. What do
you think he would say to see you trotting
along with your coo
under his nose defiling
his gift. Out you both
go, or I’ll lay you over
my knee.”
Dougal went straight
to’Old Jean, who gave
him a shilling and said
it was a shame. Dougal
believed that all adults
should be put to some
practical use, if only to
mend a toy, stick up for
a boy, or fork out a
shilling. He went
through school deliber-
ately making friends
with strange children
(the unwelcome offspring
of resident impostors),
inviting them into the
park and being regularly turned out by
his great-uncle.
But in his fourteenth year, with sports
day looming ahead, he took a decided
stand and went round to every Mc-
Cleaver, Galt, McHale and MacDougal
who had the time and patience to listen
to his argument. The school was grow-
ing larger every year. The schoolmaster
said that it was not fair to separate the
children on sports day.
But the school committee was composed
entirely of members of the first families,
who held that the sports must take place
in McCleaver’s Park, where they had been
held for thirty years. The strange
children could not enter the park, and
had to race and picnic down by Two
Creek. It was a shameful thing, said the
schoolmaster, that the children could not
meet in open competition. Not that he
complained of unfairness on the school
committee’s part; they were always just,
even liberal, with prizes, sweets and ice-
cream for the strangers. But, surely,
surely, a little latitude could be given on
sports day!
DOUGAL went to Old Jean about it.
“Look, Dougal,” she said. “There
are six of us and we have all to be in
agreement. Now it’s the Burns Anni-
versary Dance on Saturday night. I’ll
call a meeting of the trustees and well
hold it in the supper-room, back of the
hall. I can work on your own Grandpa,
for you’ve well primed him up. Your
great-uncle Jock • will rail-sit. It’s his
favorite pastime. But he’ll climb down
eventually. Your great-uncle Sandy is
lightheaded and he’ll not be hard to
handle. Then there’s Dr. lan Galt from
the city. He’s all right. But, Duggie,
there’s a mule in the garden and I can’t
see him going through any gate we open.
Well never drive Rob McHale in front
of us.”
“I’ll go and see him,” said the boy.
“I’ll tell him he’s as bad as the man
that turned my great-grandfather and the
others out of the glen so he could rear
partridges or grouse or whatever it was.
I’ll tell him it’s being dog in the manger
and it’s a bad thing for morale to keep
decent jokers like my school-friends from
playing footie in McCleaver’s Park. I’ll
get every McCleaver, Galt, McHale and
MacDougal in the district to stay out of
the park for ever if we can’t have sports
day there.”
“Well, we’ll see how we get on at the
trustees’ meeting. Maybe what with the
bagpipes and kilts and all he’ll expand
a bit, but I doubt it. Your Grandpa
was telling me they thought they might
put you in the ministry, Duggie, but some-
how I think ye’ll never wag your pow in
a pulpit. Go and see Rob if you’ve a
mind to. It’ll do no harm, anyway.”
ROB McHALE came to the park gates
and laboriously unlocked them with
his great key. His features were harsh,
his chin long and square ; mouth, eyes
and nose were huddled together in the
centre —the eyes almost lost in folds and
corrugations. He unlocked the gates every
morning at ten o’clock. If it was raining
he went and sat on the verandah of his
cottage where he could keep an eye on
visitors. But if the day was fair he would
bring his chair into the sun and sit by the
gates silently contemplating the road, a
scene that had no charm except the all-
potent one of familiarity.
He was not at all pleased to see young
Dougal, who greeted him affably and
inquired after a sick cat.
“Well, and what do you
want here?” asked the
old man suspiciously,
munching his words.
Dougal plunged into
the matter of the sports
day and from there to
the trustees’ meeting on
Saturday night.
“So you’re at the back
of it?” snarled the
keeper of the gates, “I
might ha’ known. Well,
I’ll never give my con-
sent to the Park being
thrown open to strangers,
never! Sports day or
no sports day, I’ll stick
out against having
strangers in here. You’d
have the place full of beer-drinkers,
kite-fliers, sling-throwers and the like,
to say nought of couples under
the trees. Hoots away with you,
Dougal MacDougal! I’m ashamed of
you! Andrew McCleaver’s ashamed of
you, ye rebel! Look at him, a great
Highlander, a great Scotsman, and the
best man who ever lived. You’d defile
his Park, you’d let in strangers to tramp
across the lawn and kick strange foot-
balls in his fields! Raise your hat to
Andrew McCleaver and apologise for
your sinful ingratitude!”
But the bow had been bent too far and
the rebound was proportionate. Young
Dougal clenched his fist and shook it at
the statue. “Andrew McCleaver!” he
shouted. “You, Andrew McCleaver!
You’re not a Highlander! You’re not
even a Scotsman! You’re nothing but a
great big yahoo!”
WHEN Old Jean saw the custodian's
face on Saturday night she knew that
his mind was a citadel which no verbal
artillery could batter, no mine of argu-
ment blow up. As she sat down she
glanced round the table at the others.
They were waiting now for Dr. Galt. On
her right sat two MacDougal brothers.
One of them, young Dougal’s grand-
father, was definitely on their side; the
other, Sandy MacDougal, the rail-sitter,
was always in a state of chronic
uncertainty about everything, and his
opinions were of little value.
Opposite her sat Rob McHale and her
own brother Jock, who was considered a
wit by some people and a bore by others.
He immediately began to tell one of the
store of anecdotes which he had been
hoarding for the Bums supper when Dr.
Galt walked in and took his seat at the
table. The doctor nodded pleasantly, “So
the old argument’s cropped up again?”
Nobody answered him, and Jock tried to
resume the suspended joke, but his mind
had been disturbed, and it fell as flat as a
flounder.
Old Jean glanced at Rob McHale and
saw that his hands were clenched on the
table. He was prepared for the fight that
was coming. No sooner had the chairman
made his speech about Changing Times,
than Prejudice stood at bay. If Reason
advanced Rob McHale fought against it,
doggedly, persistently. While the others
grew eloquent and persuasive his visage
retained its cold and brassy hue.
“It’s no’ what Andrew meant, I tell ye,
it’s no’ what he meant! Twas Andrew’s
land and he gave it —under certain con-
ditions. I’m standing by his last will and
testament.”
THE hall was bright with lights; bag-
pipes played Tullochgorum; girls and
boys in Highland costumes or formal
evening dress danced the Eightsome
Reel to the tune of “Bonny Dundee.”
There were strangers, guis and youths


from the district, mixed up with Mc-
Cieavers, Gaits, McHales and Mac-
Dougals. They were having a good time.
But in the back-room of the hall there
was gloom and dismay.
It was soon made clear that five of the
trustees were in favor of opening the
park to everyone, the rail-sitter, running
true to form, having joined the majority.
The dissentient was, of course, Rob
McHale. Nothing moved him.
“If it’s your job as custodian you’re
thinking of, Rob, you know that is safe,”
said Dr. Galt. “We are all grateful to you
for the way you have looked after the
park. Nobody could have been a better
custodian. We don’t want to turn you
out of your cottage.”
“I’m no’ thinking of my cottage. It’s
just the principle of the thing. He didna
mean to let in strangers.”
Old Jean and Dougal’s grandfather put
forward several explanations and prof-
fered many reasons for the step, all of
which the stubborn old man gravely con-
sidered as if he were in a shop trying on
new shoes. None of them appeared to
fit and all were quickly discarded.
“Ye see,” he said, clenching his fists,
which he still kept on the table, “ye see,
it’s no’ what he meant. It’s too late to
argue now. That should have been all
settled in his lifetime. Mind, I’ve nothing
against the children other than that they
are no’ descendants of the pioneers of this
district. Toots! Mon, I’ve turned bigger
fish than those strange children away.
“There was the Governor-General’s
family. The car stopped outside one day
and the driver came over and asked me
to open the gates. It wasna’ ten o’clock
quite, and I was waiting for the minute-
hand to shift on to the hour. Well, I
didna’ ken then it was the Governor’s
children. I just said the park was not
open to strangers and bid him read the
words on the plaque.
“When he told me who they were I was
sore tempted to let them in, for I’d no’
put a sljght on the Crown. But I told him
they were bonny enough, but that I could
no’ start a precedent. When it seemed
to me he was about to argue I tip and
told him anyway I’d lost the key.”
“You’ve done your duty, Rob,” said
Dr. Galt, “and we do not forget that you
were Andrew’s best friend. But we are
six very old people now, listening for the
sound of the muffled oar”
“Speak for yourself, lan, please,” said
Old Jean. “I’m hoping to live to a
hundred and be hearing Tullochgorum
piped on many anniversary nights yet. I
suppose what you were going to say was
that when we are gone the Park will be
open to everybody.”
“What happens when I’m laid aside I
won’t be called upon to answer,” Rob
McHale fairly munched the words as he
glared at the other trustees, “but I’d never
look Andrew in the face if I’d handed his
gift to strangers.”
THERE was a strained awkward
silence. Old Jean stared at McHale’s
hands. The fingers never stopped twisting
and turning. She could
hear his thin reedy
breathing. Then she
looked at his face and
her throat went dry.
“Where’s the little
fellow?” asked Dr. Galt.
“I’ve a mind to talk
with young Dougal. Can
we have him in?”
“Aye, bring the rebel
in,” McHale said in a
surly voice. “He began
this havering. What
d’you think he shouted
at Andrew McCleaver?
He shook his fist in the
donor’s face and
screamed ‘Andrew Mc-
Cleaver, ye’re na’ a
Hielander! Ye’re na’
even a Scotsman! Ye’re nought but a
great big yahoo! ’ There was blasphemy
if I ever heard it!”
“Hush, Rob, he’s only a boy! Boys take
things like this to heart.” Old Jean patted
the locked fingers, but he did not relax.
HIS grandfather found Dougal pressed
against the door.
“Listening, eh? Well, you’ve heard no
good of yourself. And laddie,” he whis-
pered, “don’t be too disappointed. Old
Rob won’t give in.”
“Let the boy speak up,” said Jean Mc-
Cleaver. “Tell us why the park should
be made a public place, Dougal, and tell
us in your own way,”
Dougal went very red, gulped and then
exclaimed with emphasis worthy of the
pulpit, “The earth is the Lord’s and the
fullness thereof.”
“Amen to that,” said Old Jean,
“There was the laird who dispossessed
my great-grandfather and his relations.
He turned them off his land the way my
friends are turned out of McCleaver’s
Park. Because he didn’t want strangers in
his glen. He wanted it for his friends to
shoot birds and deer and things in. What
kind of man was that? Look, there are
people living here and they’ve lived here
for thirty, forty years. They are not
strangers. They are neighbors. Why
can’t they go in McCleaver’s Park? The
jokers at school, I mean the fellows there,
say it’s giving something with one hand
and taking it back with the other. Why
did he give something good and then
make a mean rule about it? If you knew
what they say” , .
“Perhaps you’d like to tell us. Go
ahead, lad,” said Dr. Galt.
“They call us the 'Mean Macs.”
“Well, that lets me out. I’m a Galt.”
“They say that whenever Andrew Mc-
Cleaver opened his purse a moth flew
out of it.”
“That’s a good one,” said t|ie hoarder
of jokes.
“They say that his motto was ‘Every-
one for himself and a bounteous provi-
dence for all.”
OLD Jean’s lips twitched. Rob Mc-
Hale did not take his eyes from
Dougal’s face.
“And if we can’t have sports day in
McCleaver’s Park we’ll hold it in Luckie
Galt’s paddock. The school is not going
to be divided this year.”
“So that’s the threat, is it?” asked his
grandfather.
“And now come here, Dougal,” said
Jean. “I want to peep in at the last
dance and then you are going to take
the old lady home, eh? But first I want
you to go round and shake hands with
Andrew McCleaver’s trustees. For you
must bide a while, Dougal. Now, start
with your great-uncle Rob, my hus-
band’s faithful friend, and may you have
such a one for yourself.”
The boy put out a reluctant hand
which the custodian took and held as if
it was something he had found but did
not particularly want. There was a faint
gleam in the old eyes—not malicious
triumph, but certain knowledge that right
had conquered. He threw the hand away
and gasped “Ye see, laddie, it was no’
what your great-grandpa meant.”
Jean stood up. “I hope .you have a
very enjoyable Burns supper. Good-night
all. Good-night to you, Rob. I’ll come
and see you tomorrow.” She paused by
the rail-sitter and whispered “Look after
him and see that he gets home all right.”
Dougal was so near to crying with
exasperation that even when he shook
hands with Dr. Galt and felt a banknote
slipped into his palm he could hardly
keep from breaking down. He took Jean’s
arm and together they went into the hall.
“Well, that’s that,” Dr. Gak said.
“Now we can have a peaceful supper.
You’ve been hunting up jokes, haven’t
you, Jock? Well, I’ve hunted up a bottle
of the real Mackay. Get the glasses,
Sandy.”
SOON the dancing stopped, and the
hall was deserted except for pipers
and other Scotsmen
who came into the
supper-room. There
were songs and reminis-
cences. There were
more bottles. They lit
candles and sat in the
dim light round a larger
table. Rob McHale sat
at one end in a shadowy
corner and the rail-
sitter, who had now
begun to feel that after
all he had been on the
wrong side, sat beside
him. He was at first
very attentive to the old
man, but, as time went
by, seemed to forget that
Rob existed and sat with
his arms sprawled over the table.
It was a merry party, the best they
could remember for years. It was
after two o’clock when one of the
pipers called from the other end of
the table: “Hoch hie, there! Fill up Rob’s
glass, Sandy. He’s mortal grave. He’s
been mortal grave all night.”
The rail-sitter filled the glass, but he
did not offer it to the old custodian. He
somewhat embarrassed the party by gulp-
ing it down himself. Then he stood up
and looked about him with his charac-
teristic air of uncertainty.
“Aye, and you’d be grave,” he said,
“you’d be mortal grave, all of you, if
you were where Rob is. I didn’t want to
break up a good party; but before we
sing Lang Syne I may as well tell you
that Old Rob McHale has been
with his Maker for the last half-
hour or so.”
CUSTOMER
By PEGGY FARRER
A MIST of smoke made a thin
curtain between the tables of
coffee - drinkers, keeping us
separate.
My own table, in the corner, was a
tiny enclosed garden where I was breath-
ing air perfumed with coffee and spice
biscuits, more steeply than with flowers.
I was alone and I was happy.
Jerry appeared at the top of the coffee-
room steps. He spied me and came
bounding down, waving a hand in greet-
ing like a dog wagging its tail. He was
for all the world like a red setter, was
Jerry—-the same flat, bright hair, the
same overfriendly eyes, the same
abominable bounce. He was an insur-
ance-agent, and it was easy to imagine
Jerry frisking up the path to some cot-
tage door, standing waiting in doggy ex-
pectation for the housewife to appear.
'“Hallo!” cried Jerry. “Alone? We’ll
soon fix that!”
His voice, yapping in the stillness, woke
everyone. Conversation broke out at two
of the tables. Joe, the proprietor, came
down to attend to the coffee-urn. Joe,
who never bustled, seemed to do so now.
Fussily he lifted the lid of the urn and a
cloud of steam rose into the air and there
hung suspended. He peered inside, and
the steam, folding at the edges, disap-
peared. Replacing the lid, Joe waddled
over to our table.
“Coffee—black?” he asked in his sad,
plangent voice.
“Black, of course,” Jerry said. “You
know that for years it’s been black.”
“Black,” Joe said impassively and
waddled off. He came back with Jerry’s
cup and set it down with a sigh. We
both looked up, but Joe no longer
affirmed our existence. He turned and
went back up the steps to that dim
cavern behind the counter where he
watched and waited.
j T was when Jerry lifted his cup that I
1 noticed his ring. A god it was, in a
peculiar green shade, set in dark metal.
“That’s quaint,” I said. “I’ve seen one
like it somewhere before.”
“On me,” said Jerry. “I used to wear
it years ago, then I put on weight. The
other day I came across it and found it
fits again.”
He held up his finger and inspected
the ring by the light of the lamp.
“Yes, cute,” he said. “It’s the god
Shinreziz. I bought it at Lhasa.”
“Where?”
“Lhasa. Didn’t I ever tell you about
the time I went to Lhasa to see the Dalai
Lama? The last Lama, not this one ;
he’s just a kid.”
“I thought the Lama was inaccessible,”
I said.
“No one is inaccessible,” said Jerry
firmly, and I thought no, I suppose
they’re not. No one’s safe from your
doggy friendship, I thought.
“At any rate,” Jerry said, “the Lama
is accessible if you give him a present.
Something plain but good, like an ingot
of gold. . Then the Lama gives you a
present. He gave me two packets of
blessed pills and a red woven scarf. After
I had taken one of the pills I needed the
scarf, because I couldn’t stop shuddering
and shivering. We talked”
“Jerry,” I said reprovingly. “You
don’t speak Tibetan.” He shook his head.
“Not fluently. But the Lama, you know,
speaks excellent English. You forget he
is The Lord of Speech and The Mighty
Ocean of Wisdom.’ Now, where was
1? Oh yes, be sent an acolyte to make
tea.”
Jerry waved his coffee-cup. in the air.
“This cheap cup amuses me when I re-
call those we had at the palace. They
were gold. The tea was poured from a
golden teapot. The tea itself”
I nodded. “Wait a minute,” I said. “It
was bitter rather than fragrant, colored
with saffron, perfumed with”
“No,” said Jerry. “Who’s telling this
story? It was the most delicious tea I
have ever tasted, with just that tang of
blue smoke to make it very tantalising.
Nothing Eastern or exotic about it. The
Lama said it was a well-known Australian
brand. So I changed the subject. I
asked the Lama what he thought of
women smoking. But when I looked at
his face I saw only perplexity. ‘Women?’
said the Lama. ‘Ah, yes’ ...
“Then he asked me my opinion of
the doctrine of Karma, the Tibetan’s be-
lief in the inevitable consequences of
their sins.”
Jerry smiled, all playful modesty. “I
was beginning to feel at home,” he said.
“Sin was a subject on which I could
speak with authority and yet satisfy the
Lama at the same time. So I said I
approved of the Buddhist belief, since
those who accepted it would develop, if
not virtue, courage. One or the other.
This seemed to please him, and with
padding it filled out the time until dinner.
We had pork. It was delicious.”
I stirred uneasily, but Jerry wagged a
hand, motioning me to silence.
“You were going to say that I never
eat pork?” he asked. “Well, I don’t
now. But I used to, and that dinner at
the Lama’s was the very last time. I
happened 'to remark that the pork was
succulent, and was informed that when
the townspeople of Lhasa die their bodies
are thrown into the alleys. The wander-
ing pigs thrive.
it K | OW, what was I saying? Oh, yes,
f N after dinner the Lama, his aco-
lytes. and I repaired to the throne-room.
1 should have mentioned that in the first
two rooms the carpets were so deep and
shaggy an onlooker might have thought
we were crawling. But in the throne-
room there was no carpet. The floor,
the fluted columns were of onyx. Around
the walls were tapestries or portraits
worked in glittering threads. An acolyte
pointed out two whom he said were
Gedun-gyatso and Sonam-gyatso. I
looked, as he expected, impressed.
“But what first caught my eye was the
statue of this god Shinreziz—the one on
my ring—in the corner of the room He
had a thousand and one arms, and an
eye in the palm of each hand He was
fashioned of some beautiful mineral like
chrysoprase.”
Jerry shuddered.
“This careless display of wealth,” he
said, “reminded me of my expense
account, which included an ingot of gold.
“And as time was getting on I thought
I sljquld mention the purpose of my visit,
which was to sign the Lama up for a life
policy. So I started shooting him a sales
line.
“I said that one day a visitor would
call without a present —a visitor whom i
no one welcomed, but who was received
everywhere he went with the utmost
respect.
“Well, do you know, right from the;
start I felt I wasn’t getting anywhere. I
thought at first that this might be psycho-
logical, because the Lama was seated on
a golden throne twelve feet long and six
feet wide and four feet broad, and I,
sitting on a wooden bench at his feet,
was trying to talk down to him.
“But it wasn’t only that. The Lama
waited until I had finished, then he very
courteously inquired when the policy
would fall due?
“You see,” said Jerry sadly, “I had
overlooked one point. The Lama is in-
carnate ; he never dies. He merely retires,
now and then, to the Paradise of Gadan,
to show his displeasure with the world.
While there, he is outfitted with a new
body to wear back to earth. Naturally
he chooses a baby’s so it will last longer,
<l l COULD see his point of view, of
1 course. So X went home. I went
back to the manager’s office to tell him
I couldn’t get the Lama’s business.
“The manager was quite equable at
first, because the Lama had been only
a routine prospect. It’s the policy of our
firm to sell insurance to everyone, but we
have had failures. So, had I left the
matter there, everything would have been
okay!
“As it was, I went on chatting, and
explained how it is the Lama never dies.
Well! You should have heard the
manager! He stormed and raved. He
actually wept! I just stood there with
my tail between my legs.
“ ‘What about the company’s point of
view?’ the manager kept saying. There
was I, with the ideal client for life insur-
ance in my clutches, and I had let him
slip through my fingers!”
Jerry smiled ruefully. “That is that,”
he said. “That is why I am how canvas-
sing the suburb's.”
I looked at Jerry and he looked back
at me with his big dogs’ eyes. No de-
ception chilled their warmth. They were
candid eyes, true and honest eyes .. .
I made no comment on his story.


Born 1820—
still going strong.
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WALKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW.1268.12
Public Notice.
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE is the admini-
strator of the estate of MARY COPLEY,
also known as MARY CAMERON, late of
17 Maugie Street, Abbotsford, and is de-
sirous of communicating with a son of the
deceased, ARCHIBALD LEWIS MOLLOY,
who was born at Portland on the 11th
August, 1898, and who served in the 4th
Light Horse Regiment during the 1914-
1918 war—Will any person claiming to
be or having any knowledge of the said
ARCHIBALD LEWIS MOLLOY please
communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE
FOR VICTORIA, 412 Collins Street,
Melbourne ?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO. ANNIE FRANCES ROBERTS formerly
ANNIE PRANCES BRENNAN late of
Edgeclifl Sydney and formerly of Brisbane
Queensland.—TAKE NOTICE that JOHN
FREDERICK ROBERTS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3665 of 1949 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or
before the Bth day of February 1950 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. CLIFTON R.
PENNY AND DAVIES, Solicitors, 81
Elizabeth Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
WITH THE PROVED
ROLLS COMBINATION
. . . PROVED by repeated tests to
give greater efficiency to any lighter.
ROLLS LIGHTER FLUID
An entirely new, specially blended
fluid—deodorised, non oily, burns
with a clear flame and longer
lasting. 5 fluid ozs., 1/6.
With Dropper, 1 /10.
ROLLS FLINTS
Made by the
makers of Roils
Lighters. A
finely ground
English flint as-
suring consist-
ent sparking.
6d. a packet
of 6 flints.
Distributed by \
WILCOX MOFFLIN LTD.
Some Men and a Maid
D. L. ROGERS
u I DON’T like it,” Mrs.
Bohanna said, leaning
I against the door-jamb as
she watched her daughter
adjusting her hat in front of the
mirror. But it was not the hat
she was referring to, though its
bright flowers and absurd veiling
looked pert enough poised over
one knowing brown eye.
“You haven’t got to like it,”
Jess said, tilting the hat a little
further. “It’s me that’s doing
it.”
“In service,” said Mrs.
Bohanna, arms folded over her
lean bosom. “That’s what we
called it in my day. Skivvies.
Now it’s lady-helps or domestic-
helps, but it all comes to the
same thing. Doing other people’s
dirty work. And little thanks
you’ll get for it.”
“I’m not doing it for thanks,”
Jess said, dabbing more powder
on her short, impudent nose.
“Three quid a week and my
keep, that’s what I’m doing it
for. And expectations,” The
brown eye met its reflected
counterpart complacently, ack-
nowledging a secret intention.
“Expectations! ” Mrs. Bohanna
said with throbbing scorn. In
the background of the mirror
her image was dark and bitter,
the lines drawn deep from nose
to mouth. “A fat lot you’ll get
from that crowd on the hill. Or
from anybody else. What ex-
pectations?”
“Never you mind.' There ; I’m
ready.” Jess whirled away from
the mirror, took another back-
wards glance at herself. “I’ll
have to go. I might get a lift
with Mr. Scriaby if I’m lucky.”
“You think you’re clever,”
Mrs. Bohanna said, moving
aside to let her pass. “But
you’ll get caught yet.”
The thought gave her a melan-
choly satisfaction. She saw the
weeping penitent returning home
and herself forgiving everything.
Nobody had any right to be as
confident as Jess was. It wasn’t
decent, it invited misfortune;
and she with not even a steady
boy-friend to keep her out of
mischief or to marry her if she
did get into trouble. She fol-
lowed her daughter down the
hall to the front door. “Those
snobs up there are putting ideas
into your head. Them with
their cocktail-parties and carry-
ings-on. Don’t you ever let me
catch you drinking.”
“Not me,” Jess said am-
biguously. She kissed the sallow
cheek, leaving a smear of lip-
stick, “Ta-ta. Don’t you worry
about me. I know what I’m
doing.”
Mrs. Bohanna watched her go
down the street, the saucy hat
bobbing above the paling fences.
You might as well talk to the
air. Too sure of herself by
half. But she’d fall. Jess turned
at the corner to wave. Mrs.
Bohanna waved back, and went
inside to await the day of her
triumph.
JESS walked up the main
street, seeing her rounded
curves of pink silk crepe out-
lined in shop windows against
backgrounds of mercery and
tins of paint and Somebody’s
Cough Mixture and lengths of
suiting, Jess Bohanna from the
Flat. Jess Bohanna from the
Hill. All the latest hair-styles
from London, Paris, New York,
said the notice in Miss Brash’s
window, on a scroll between
two haughty waxen heads with
glossily immaculate hair. Jess
Bohanna of London, Paris, New
York. Jess Bohanna, our new-
■ "p
est find, the rising young screen
star.
“ ’Lo, Jess.” A dark, oil-
smeared visage grinned at her
from the entrance to Malley’s
garage. “Going to the dance
tonight?”
“Not tonight, Herb.” She
lingered, looking up the street
towards Mr. Scriaby’s office. Mr,
Scriaby’s car stood at the kerb,
but as yet there was no sign
of Mr. Scriaby, who always went
home for lunch about this time.
If she started to walk up the
Hill he would pass her by, and
the Hill was steep for high-
heeled shoes, and the sun warm
for pink crepe. “I’ll be work-
ing,” she said. “They’re having
a party tonight, and I promised
to help.”
Herb came out into the sun-
light, wiping his hands on a
piece of cotton-waste. “Keep-
ing you hard at it, are they?”
“They’re not bad,” Jess said
vaguely. “I do all right.”
“I bet you do,” Herlx said
with heavy irony. He stared at
her mouth, soft and tantalising
under its coating of lipstick.
Down by the river under the
willows the grass was long and
the shadows deep. But how to
get her there? She was a bird
that always hopped just out of
reach.
“You’ll be living up on the
Hill yet,” he jeered. “Who’re
you going to get off with?
Young Wilf or Uncle Evan'?”
“You’ve got a nerve talking
like that after what you’ve tried
more than once.” But she
wasn’t even angry; her indigna-
tion was only a pretence. Out
of the corner of her eye she
could see Mr. Scriaby’s tall, thin
figure emerging from his office.
She turned away, smiling over
her shoulder. “Cheerio.”
“Good luck,” Herb called
derisively. He crushed the cot-
ton-waste between his palms.
Mr. Scriaby, if you’re
going up the hill now
can I gpt a lift with you?”
Mr. Scriaby, hand on the
door, looked round his nose in
surprise. It was a
majestic nose, and it
wasn’t used to being ac-
costed by young women
asking for lifts. After a second
or two it followed his gaze and
pointed at Jess with some dis-
pleasure.
“Ah —Miss—Miss”
“Jess Bohanna,” Jess said, not
disconcerted by Mr. Scriaby’s
nose. “I work for the Coxes
up in the big house. It’s a long
climb right up there, so I
thought if you were going up to
your place I could go that far
with you.”
“Impudence! ” thought Mr.
Scriaby, and for a moment his
nose seemed about to put Jess
Bohanna in her place. But even
that organ was not equal to such
a task.
“Very well,” he said austerely.
He gestured towards the back
seat, but Jess was already past
him and sliding into the front,
settling the pink crepe over
round knees. Mr, Scriaby’s nose
lifted, but he went round the
other side and slid in behind the
wheel, aware that the young man
from the garage was watching,
standing in the sun as if he had
nothing better to do. As they
drove off, a shrill, derisive
whistle followed them up the
street. Insolence! The tips of
Mr. Scriaby’s ears reddened. No
respect for their betters these
days. Above the wheel his nose
pointed straight ahead, aloof and
dignified, dissociating itself en-
tirely from his passenger.
Seven pounds a week and no
prospects, thought Jess, dismis-
sing Herb. She looked at her
shadowy reflection in the wind-
screen. Mrs. Scriaby! The
flowers on her hat nodded. A
couple of thousand a year, a
house on the hill and a car. She
crossed her knees,
“Gee, you drive well, Mr.
Scriaby.”
“Hum!” Mr. Scriaby was
irritatingly aware of the knees
and the pink crepe curves.
Perfume assailed his fastidious
nostrils.
“I’m sure I couldn’t drive. I
don’t think women should drive,
do you?”
“Hum! ” Inwardly he agreed.
The world would be a better
place if women were denied
votes and driving licences. Im-
perceptibly he thawed. He had
his vanity like men with lesser
noses. He was proud of his driv-
ing. “Hum! ”
AS they turned the corner by
Ryan’s Hotel Evan Coxe
rushed out jerking his thumb.
“Scriaby. Hey, Scriaby! Going
up?”
Mr. Scriaby ignored him. As
a Christian perhaps he could not
refuse to give a lift to a re-
spectable young woman who
asked for it in a decent manner,
but in no way could he construe
it as his duty to help Evan Coxe.
Nor would he tolerate being
hailed like a taxi-driver by a
parasite and a waster, a man who
had spent his own fortune and
now lived on the generosity of
others. In the driving-mirror he
could see the fat, disreputable
figure standing in the middle of
the road staring after them, its
red face distorted in a grimace,
its hat in the dust, its bald pate
shining. Ludicrous! He drove
on triumphantly.
“Ha!” His satisfaction ex-
tended itself to his companion,
approving her composure. His
sister Hannah would have
fluttered and twittered, “But,
Luke—one of the Coxes! ”
Hannah was a fool, of course.
Jess had looked the other way,
discreetly pretending not to see
Evan. Not for Jess Bohanna to
fight Evan Coxe’s battles. But
she could not resist a backward
glance as the car turned again
to go up the Hill road. He was
still standing there, but now he
appeared to be laughing, head
thrown back and hands slapping
his fat thighs. She knew that
laugh. She smiled in sympathy.
Mr. Scriaby, his nose veering
unexpectedly, caught the smile
and a sparkling glance and took
thepi to himself. He felt an inner
stirring, an unwonted desire to
smile in return. He looked away
severely.
Evan, still sending great
guffaws up to the blue sky, went
back to Ryan’s bar for another
drink. Jess Bohanna and
Scriaby! And he had tried to
play gooseberry!
THE Hill road was tree-lined,
its footpaths well-trimmed
lawns. The red brick villas sat
snugly in their gardens looking
across the roofs of the town to


’■"•Si*
Big Welcome
for an old friend
Already, so many old friends have enthusiastically greeted the return of
the cigarettes they smoked with so much pleasure between the two World
\^ a j S —and so many new friends, too, are asking, more and more, for ;
FD
rmv
CORK TIPPED
m
&
m
r: ; .
K'
*
n
«
m
o
m
that it has been decided to manufacture them here in Australia. Only
the best and richest golden leaf will be used . . . ripened by sun,
mellowed by time ... together with Army Club’s well-known filigrained
rice-paper, free from printer’s ink. Ask for Army Club Virginia
Cigarettes at all tobacconists. Prices are clearly shown here.
AC-149
the river and the rolling farm-
lands beyond. The Hill was
exclusive, as aloof and dignified
as Mr. Scriaby’s nose. It had
a view and certain standards by
which to measure itself. Its
children went to boarding-school
and came home with strange
accents and expensive tastes. It
played golf and bridge, and got
itself regularly reported in the
social columns of the local news-
paper ; and through the Coxes in
other newspapers with wider cir-
culations.
It had its ghosts, like Hannah
Scriaby, who was a timid grey
ghost eternally peering through
lace window-curtains. And it
had its black sheep, but it did
not number Evan Coxe among
them. Evan, like all the Coxes,
belonged to a larger world than
that of the Hill. The Hill could
accept what glory the Coxes
shed, but it did not assume re-
sponsibility for them.
The Coxe house stood on the
crest of the Hill, looking down
on all the rest. A big stone house
—the Coxe who had built it
nearly a century earlier had
despised anything less durable —
with wide verandahs ,and an
arrogant sweep of drive that
entered the grounds through one
set of double-gates, described a
semicircle past the front, steps
and left again through another
set of double-gates.
11? VAN COXE, rolling up the
Hill at dusk with a ribald
song on his lips and a bottle of
beer under each arm, found the
drive full of cars. Groups of
people stood on the lighted
verandahs and there were sounds
of music and laughter. Evan
scratched his head and remem-
bered that his sister-in-law was
giving a cocktail-party. Half the
Hill would be here while the
other half sat at home sulking
because it hadn’t been invited.
Prudently Evan dodged into the
shrubbery and made his way
round to the back of the house.
A pale moon hung in the violet
sky over the chimney - tops.
There was a breath of blossom
in the air. Romantic, thought
Evan, leering at the moon. Very
romantic! A shame to think of
it being wasted on old Scriaby.
A pity to think of anything being
wasted on Scriaby. He put his
hand in his pocket and felt the
notes there. No hard feelings.
Scriaby had done him a good
turn, come to think of it.
Jess was alone in the kitchen
except for Wilfrid, who lurked
sullenly in a corner near the
dresser. Neat now in a print
dress and apron and sandals she
was busy filling trays with
savories and cakes and sand-
wiches. Mrs. Malt the cook,
who was not to be imposed on,
had done her share and gone out
for the evening.
“What, not with your lover
this beautiful evening?” Evan
asked from the back door. He
ignored Wilfrid, who was always
lurking somewhere. Wilfrid was
regrettably young and better
ignored.
“Don’t be silly,” Jess said. “I
haven’t got a lover.”
Evan put his bottles down and
leant against the table. “No
lover? A well-set-up young
woman like you? Not even
Scriaby to come throwing
pebbles at your window?”
Wilfrid growled in his corner.
Jess giggled. “I’d like to see
him.”
“So would I.” Evan grinned.
“You’re wasting your ammuni-
tion on him, Jess. He’s an ice-
berg. You’d have to be a Good
Work to interest Scriaby.” He
stuffed a savory into his mouth.
“What you need is a bit of melo-
drama. Now if I were to chase
you down the hill in your
nightie—you in it, not me—you
could fling yourself at his feet
and beg him to save you from
me.” The idea appealed to him.
He ogled her. “But you’d have
to run fast, darling, or I might
catch you.”
“You’re drunk,” Jess said.
“Where’ve you been all day?”
“Not drunk, sweetheart, just
exhilarated. I’ve been playing
poker with some congenial com-
panions in Ryan’s back-room
this afternoon.” He slapped his
pocket. “And X won, Jess, I
won! My luck’s turned. Fm
set now. How’d you like a trip
to Sydney? More exciting than
the Hill and old Luke Scriaby.”
WILFRID came'-out of his
corner, stringy and intense.
“I don’t like
this conversation,
Uncle Evan.
It’s gone far
enough.”
Evan stared at
him and guf-
fawed. “Another
of your cavaliers,
Jess? Isn’t there
any age limit?”
Jess ignored
him. She thrust
a laden tray into
Wilfrid’s hands.
“There you are,
Wilf. Be a good
boy and help me
carry them in.”
She went out
with her pert
nose in the air.
“The people who work for us
are a sacred trust,” Wilfrid said,
towering over his uncle, “We
ought to respect them.”
“Boy,” Evan said, “man is an
ignoble animal, not properly
qualified for sacred trusts. Here,
have a glass of beer.”
Jess was at the door again.
“Wilf, your mother wants you.”
Evan, left alone in the kitchen,
drank the glass of beer himself,
then tilted the bottle to his lips.
Wiping his
mouth, he wan-
dered out into the
garden again,
squinting up at
the moon. He
felt splendid, full
of vigor, a man
in his prime. A
full-blooded man,
not a fish like
Scriaby. A shame
to think of
Jess Bohanna
throwing herself
away on Luke
Scriaby, to think
of those round
arms clasped
round the skinny
neck, that lovely t
little form pressed
against his bony thorax. But
she would get him if she set
out to do it; there was success in
her eye. And she would take
him if nothing better offered.
Ah, but a Coxe was something
better, even a down-at-heel
Coxe. And his luck was in. “A
sacred trust!” thought Evan,
griilning into the night, a fat
satyr in a tweed suit and bat-
tered hat. A luscious morsel, a
minx, a treasure a man wouldn’t
tire of in a hurry.
'"THROUGH the kitchen-door
he could see Jess at the table
with her back to him. He crept
in, light as a feather on his feet,
and put his hands on her waist.
Such a delicious, trim little waist.
He pulled her round to face
him. “A kiss, Jess. Just one
kiss.”
Jess leant against him, giggling
into his shirt. She had just drunk
two cocktails while nobody was
looking and she, too, was ex-
hilarated. “Don’t be silly. Some-
body’ll come in.”
“Let them come. It will do
their hearts good—if they have
any hearts.” He tilted up her
chin and kissed her mouth. He
smacked his lips. “There’s flavor
in your kiss, Jess. Let’s have
another.”
But a hand on his shoulder
jerked him away and a wildly-
aimed fist struck him in the face.
He went over backwards and lay
spreadeagled on the floor, a
ridiculous mound.
“I warned him,” Wilfrid said
passionately, his Adam’s apple
working.
“You’ve killed him!” Jess
cried, appreciating the drama of
the situation. She flopped on
her knees beside Evan and took
his head on her lap. “Mr. Coxe,
are you all right?” A bloodshot-
blue eye opened for an instant
and gazed into hers, then closed
again. “Quick, Wilf, get some
brandy.”
But someone else was at the
door, barring Wilfrid’s path.
Mrs. Julian Coxe, poised and
elegant. “What’s the matter,
Wilfrid? Jess, what is all this?”
“Mr. Evan slipped and fell,
Mrs. Coxe. He must have hit
his head.”
“That’s not true,” Wilfrid said,
pale but determined. “I hit him,
mother. He was trying to kiss
Miss Bohanna.”
“Miss ? Oh, I see. Well,
go and get the brandy like a
good boy.”
Mrs. Coxe smiled, looking at
the recumbent figure. Poor
Evan. Such a comic figure.
Naturally he would try to kiss
{Continued on page 32.)


/■is
£
%
'A
*
m
m
“LABOR
stands for the people. LABOR stands
firmly against all who would take advantage of
the people. LABOR stands on its achievements,
not on irresponsible promises
• • •
Authorised
IV, E. Dickson, M.L.C., Parliament House, Sydney.
L.96.70N


Positions Vacant.
The Board of Directors of the Govern-
ment Rice Mills, Perak, Malaya, requires
the services of a Manager to take charge
of their three Mills. Applicants should
be suitably qualified and are required to
have had practical mechanical engineering
and milling experience. The officer
selected will be required to supervise the
buying and milling of padi, to operate
and maintain the Mills’ machinery and
control the Mills’ staff.
The three Mills are situated in Perak,
Malaya, two being within 10 miles of each
other while the third is 140 miles distant
from these.
The output of each is 2 tons of rice
per hour, and the normal milling pro-
gramme totals 6000 tons of rice per
annum.
2. Applicants should be of British
nationality or be in possession of a
Malayan Federal Citizenship Certificate.
Preference will be given to applicants
between the ages of 35 and 40.
3. The appointment will be on an agree-
ment for 3 years in the first instance, on
a salary of |750/- per mensem ( £lO5O
per annum). Cost-of-living Allowance
is payable at the approved Government
rates, at present £525 per annum for
married officers with dependant children,
£420 pecimnum for married officers with-
out dependant children and £2lO per
annum for single officers and a Motor Car
Allowance at current Government rates is
also payable.
Free medical attention will be provided
for the officer selected and his family in
the same manner as that provided for
Government servants.
4. Rent free partly-furnished quarters
will be supplied.
For officers of non-Asian domicile a free
passage will be provided for the officer,
and, if marribd, his wife and dependant
children under 10 years of age, on first
appointment and on leave.
Home leave will be granted on full pay
after 3 years’ resident Service at the rate
of four days for each month of such resi-
dent service. Malayan Income Tax rates
are comparatively low.
Candidates resident in the United King-
dom should apply at once to the Crown
Agents for the Colonies, 4 Millbank,
London, S.W.I, quoting “Manager, Perak
(Malaya) Government Rice Mills” on their
application.
Candidates resident elsewhere should
apply direct to the Secretary, Board of
Directors, Government Rice Mills, Perak,
District Office, Krian, Perak, giving full
particulars of age, qualifications, previous
experience, together with such testimonials
si m»y be in their possession.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN CYRIL ROBERTS late of
Crook w e 11. —TAKE NOTICE that
SYLVERINA JOYCE ROBERTS has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2071 of 1944
on the grounds of your desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 25th January 1950 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from CHARLES GRIFFITHS, Solicitor,
164 Phillip Street, Sydney.—(n.s.) J-
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO RONALD KEITH REYNOLDS address
unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that NITA
MAY REYNOLDS hag filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3719 of 1948 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in
the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 7th day of February
1950 and obtain a copy
without charge from JOHN WRANQHAM
MILNE, Solicitor, 350 George Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN. Registrar
in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
The Fate of Libya.
“Ek Dum”: Almost a decade
after Bardia, Australian troops
who took part in the early cam-
paigns of North Africa have
the satisfaction of knowing that
Dr. Evatt’s boon companions of
U.N.O. have finished their war
for them.
The general outcome seems to
be that Libya is to be given “in-
dependence” as soon as possible
—it is hoped before January 1,
1952.
The Russians were in a much
greater hurry. Their plan was
for the immediate withdrawal of
foreign troops so that they
could begin Communising the
place, along with Eritrea and
Somaliland.
Eritrea is to remain a ward
Of U.N.O. for at least another
year, when its fate will be
further considered, but Italian
Somaliland is to be handed over,
under trusteeship for 10 years,
to Italy.
The most satisfying feature of
the whole business is that the
decisions mean plenty more
good jobs for somebody. There
is to be a commissioner for
Libya pending its grant of abso-
lute freedom, and, with the
usual staff of people who know
nothing whatever about Libya
and who have had no experience
of constitutions, he is to settle
down in conclave with three
bodies of Libya—representing
Cyrenaica, Tripolitania and
Fezzan —to draft a constitution
for the new and enlightened
nation, for which the Allied
armies won liberty.
The commissioner will
naturally have a committee be-
hind him to “advise” —from
Egypt, France, Italy, Pakistan,
Britain, America, Cyrenaica,
Tripolitania, Fezzan and Libyan
minorities.
It was noticeable that the
name of Britain, which did most
of the fighting to liberate the
area, was well down on the list
of advisers and that the names
of Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa, which did most of
the rest, were not there at all,
while a place had been found
for Italy, which during the
African war wore the sandshoes,
and for Egypt, which wouldn’t
fight to help its neighbor.
The debate about the fate of
North Africa was one in which
Australian representatives might
have been expected to be active,
especially since so many of our
dead lie among the Libyan
sands. But Dr. Evatt was too
busy to take much interest in
Africa.
He was stumping his own
country (for once) endeavoring
to persuade it that Mr. Chifley
is like Lincoln and that com-
pulsory military training is a
tyrant’s expedient.
Overboard with
Chiang.
“Ek Dum”: The expected re-
fusal of the Soviet Union to
continue to recognise the
Chinese Nationalist Government
in U.N.O. came suddenly and
casually at a moment when
diplomatic relations between the
Communists and the Western
Governments were in the melt-
ing-pot.
Within a few days pre-
ceding the announcement by
Vyshinsky curious things were
happening round the Embassies
and Consulates of China.
In Mukden the United States
Consul-General, Mr. Ward, and
his staff had been arrested, had
been flung into a dirty Oriental
jail and tried by a “People’s
Court” for having allegedly
beaten-up a Chinese coolie. The
proceedings seemed to be based
on the usual fictional founda-
tion and were designed rather to
prove that it was a national *
habit of the barbarous United
States to beat up the poor and
needy than to sheet home a
crime by a fair trial. It was ob-
viously a piece of hate propa-
ganda from beginning to end.
And it was followed by an order
to the Americans concerned to
leave ignominiously or be
thrown back into what passes
for a modern clink in Mukden
—seemingly for an indefinite
period. No doubt Mr. Ward
and his companions are only too
anxious to go home.
In Nanking, however, the
U.S. Military Attache has been
trying to go home for some time
in accordance with the orders
of his Government, but the
Communist Government had re-
fused, up to the weekend, to
give him a visa.
The British Ambassador to
China since 1945, Sir Ralph
Stevenson, has been recalled for
consultation with Mr. Bevin. He
also should be glad to leave the
place and to see a civilised Eng-
land, since most of his career
has been in turbulent places—
Bulgaria at the moment when
the Australian Communist
party’s delightful boss, Kolarow,
and his associates organised the
blowing-up of Sofia Cathedral,
Berlin immediately after Ver-
sailles, Barcelona at its stormiest
after the Franco - Communist
war, Yugoslavia in the early
days of Tito, and finally China
during the Communist advance.
He is, however, the kind of
Englishman whom nothing but
an atom-bomb under the dinner-
table would disturb.
Russia’s declaration against
the Chinese Nationalists was
launched in the usual courtly
atmosphere of U.N.O. debate.
Comrade Vyshinsky bounced up
like a cannon-ball —reckless as
usual of rules of debate and the
authority of the Chair —and
shouted that “We will not recog-
nise the delegates of the Kuo-
mintang as representatives of
China any longer.”
Dr. Chieh Hu-kam, the
Chinese delegate, replied in kind.
Dr. Romulo whacked the table
with his gavel trying to bring
the discussion back to the less-
explosive subject of atom-
bombs, but until the combatants
had exhausted themselves the
results were fruitless.
Recognition Problems
It seems that the point has
come when the question of re-
lations with the Communist
Government will have to be
seriously considered. This has so
far been discussed in the Press
mainly on the premise that the
British and Americans will give
the matter their consideration
when the time is ripe, but events
are developing in such a way
that it may be the Communists
who will have the last say. The
whole matter will not be so easy
to settle if the Communists de-
mand that a number of points in
a likely programme are carried
out —points which may range
from approval of a specialised
series of arrangements in the
Japanese peace treaty to permit
the clutching hand of Moscow
to close round Tokyo, a with-
drawal of all Korea behind the
Iron Curtain, the recognition of
Dairen as a piece of Chinese
territory, consent to the kicking
of the Portuguese out of
and a lot of similar
matters, not forgetting the
establishment of some Com-
munist control, if not of actual
sovereignty, over Hong Kong in
general and the return of its
leased territories in particular.
The prospect is not pleasing,
more especially since Japan’s
Premier is obviously meditating
already on the problem of what
advantages he may derive from
the situation.
There seems to be no doubt
“Ahoy, there! You got your deep-sea ticket ?”
about the general attitude of the
Western Powers. They cannot
give up control of the Pacific
Ocean whatever they may give
up in Asia itself. Japan and ad-
jacent islands through the
Ryukyu group to the Philippines
and Australia are vital both to
British and American, not
to mention Australian, defence.
.Neither can they agree to the
surrender of Formosa with all its
strategic advantages for the con-
trol of sea-routes.
All the signs that these and
Hong Kong are to be looked
after can be pieced together, and
even the British Socialist atti-
tude seems to have hardened
since Mao’s Chinese Reds be-
gan exchanging messages of
hope with the Indian Communist
party, a move which must have
given even Pandit Nehru a chili
feeling round the ribs.
Western Defences
The United States attitude is
evident in a readiness for a peace
settlement with Japan. The
Western Allies in general, with
the opening-up of the era of
conciliation, have taken the first
steps towards drawing Japan out
of the Communist ambit by the
development of the new trade
agreements.
On the military and naval
sides what is happening speaks
for itself. The United States
appears to be developing a
main base at Okinawa, 400
miles to the south of Japan. A
substantial force already is
lodged there, with five large air-
fields within less than an hour’s
flight from the northern tip of
Formosa and 600-odd miles
from Shanghai as the aircraft
flies. To the facilities already
on the island new works valued
at about £A25,000,000 are to be
added, including typhoon-proof
buildings, new harbor protection
and aircraft-landing improve-
ments.
These developments were
announced contemporaneously
with accessions to the Royal
Navy in the China Seas which
make the fleet there the strongest
seen in Eastern waters since
1945. The latest ships to go to
Hong Kong are H.M.S. Uni-
corn, a 20,000-ton carrier and
repair-ship, the Fiji-class cruiser
Jamaica and three others. The
Naval C.-in-C. in Eastern
waters. Sir Patrick Brind, is on
his way to Hong Kong in the
destroyer Alert,
All this added might should
arrive about in time to hear of
the “fall” of Chungking, which
the U.S. Consul-General left in
the third week in November and
from which just before the
weekend the Communist
“armies” were reported to be
only a few miles away.
The reign of Chiang Kai-shek
has nearly ended —at any rate
for the present.
The Cosmic Atom.
“Ek Dum”: The contest be-
tween atom-holding nations be-
comes more razor-edged every
day.
Having refused to consent to
any sort of inspection of
Russian atomic - production
plants and resources because
it would invade Russian
sovereignty, the versatile Mr.
Vyshinsky suddenly announced
that the Kremlin would now be
willing to “open all the doors”
to Russian atom plants, but not
at regular intervals. He even
offered to abandon the veto on
occasions when the Atomic
Commission decided to vote for
an inspection.
This cheering surrender, how-
ever, was qualified by a modest
sentence: “We must, however,
in self-defence keep Russian
military installations secret.” He
added that perhaps the best way
to deal with the matter would,
after all, be to “ban atomic
weapons”—the banning to be
carried out on trust with no
guarantees.
There will, of course, be no
real agreement from Russia,
whose agents continue a cam-
paign to spread the belief that
the U.S.S.R. has outstripped the
backward capitalist Powers and
advanced from atomic triumph
to even greater things.
Professor Curie in Russia
The precarious position of
Western atomic defence is shown
by the fact that the head of the
Atomic Commission of France,
which is one of the bloc of Wes-
tern Defence Powers, is Professor
Frederick Joliot-Curie, who ad-
mits that he is a Communist,
and who has just returned to
Paris from a visit made to Mos-
cow “at the special invitation of
the Soviet Government.”
He came back with a terri-
fying picture, entirely satisfac-
tory to the U.S.S.R. propa-
gandists, of “dozens” of youth-
ful Russian scientists with a
complete grasp of the latest re-
searches in their fields, while
other prodigies were discovered
by the voyager to have instru-
ments and apparatus for study-
ing cosmic rays which “abso-
lutely staggered” France’s bul-
wark of atomic defence.
However, as a member of the
Soviet Academy, M. Joliot-
Curie is scarcely in a position to
compare the zenith of Western
advances with those of the
Soviet, for the simple reason
that the Americans and British
haven’t taken him into their
confidence. They probably do
not even trust his surprising
statement that the Russians are
“hard at work on cosmic-ray
weapons which will make atomic
bombs obsolete.” For if the
Americans refuse to supply a
French Communist with any
information likely to be of
the slightest use to the U.S.S.R.,
Marshal Stalin is just as un-
likely to show the director of
France’s atomic research any-
thing of value or to allow him
the chance to form firsthand im-
pressions of new discoveries.
So that the main chance is
that he has obtained his infor-
mation mainly from hearsay.
If he hasn’t he has a splendid
opportunity to follow the excel-
lent Russian theory so frequently
preached by Communist parties
and Australian fellow-traveller
bodies: that there should be no
secrecy about atomic discoveries
—that the scientist must be free
to communicate whatever he
learns to other scientists irre-
spective of the injury he may
do to the defence of his country.
The way seems to be open for
Professor Curie not only to tell
how grand are the results of
Russian research on atomic wea-
pons but exactly what atomic
and cosmic-ray weapons Russia
is developing and how they are
made.
The Americans, a day or two
after Comrade Curie’s arrival in
Paris, let it out that they had a
new bomb a baby atom,
weighing about 2501 b. for “tac-
tical use in support of troops,”
and that there was a sufficient
stock to ensure the defence of
Europe.
It is possible, and may form
the basis for a cheery statement
by Viscount Montgomery in
Washington that “if any nation
attacked Western Europe we
would have a time, a real good
party, and kill a lot of people.”
Field-Marshal Montgomery’s
visit to America comes at a time
of great activity among the
Western Defence Powers and
immediately following the news
that Russia has virtually taken
over Albania’s naval bases and
closed them to strangers. Field-
Marshal Slim, C.1.G.5., is also in
Canada with Professor Cock-
croft, one of Britain’s foremost
atomic scientists. Defence
Ministers of the Brussels con-
ference Powers met in London
during the week pending a con-
gress of the chiefs-of-staff of the
12 Western defence nations
yesterday in Paris, held as a pre-
liminary to a meeting of Wes-
tern Defence Ministers set down
for December 1.
Largely the discussions seems
to hinge on plans for the mutual
sharing of materials, including
Belgian uranium, and the divi-
sion of U.S. defence assistance.
A Russo - German military
commission has been sitting in
Moscow, curiously enough about
the time of M. Joliot-Curie’s
visit. And the fate of Eastern
Germany as a province of the
U.S.S.R. seems to have been
sealed by the appointment of
Marshal Koniev as its Com-
mander-in-Chief.


jour dependants
m
m*
s added Security
Whether your Estate is large or small, you can give your
dependants the added security of an experienced, far-seeing and
efficient trustee. Choose the Permanent Trustee Company and you
bring to the management of your affairs a number of highly
qualified individuals, specialists in taxation, investments, property
values, and all the complexities of Estate administration.
Why not call and discuss this matter further with one of our
Executive Officers? Or write for free booklet, “Trust Estates and
Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman . . . F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
. . . Cecil H. Doyle . . . F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
. . . G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M., F.R.A.C.S.
J. R. Faviell.
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle. Sub Manager: S. U. White
Secretary: F. R. Garland. Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET
COMPANY OF N.S.W. LIMITED
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALES
PT.IXc.IS
UHCABLED
ADDITIONS
SOCIALISED PEANUTS FIASCO.
With a somewhat sticky reser-
vation tacked on to it by the
auditors, the first annual report
on the Attlee Socialists’ peanut
venture in East Africa came out
a few weeks back, and has since
been pretty roughly roasted by
all sections of the British Press
bar the Government’s party
sheets. The auditors’ addendum
reads; —
We are unable to report that, in
our opinion, proper books of account
have been kept and that we have
obtained all the information and
explanations which, to the best of
our knowledge and belief, were neces-
sary for the purpose of our audit.
With reservations of that sort
the normal inference is that
what hasn’t been revealed may
be worse than what has, or at
any rate will worsen it. But this
doesn’t matter very much —what
has come out is plenty bad
enough. It could—and probably
will —stand as specimen-case ex-
ample of Socialism in a socialis-
ing hurry ; as it happens, a most
timely warning on what the
Chifley Socialists would not fail
to do with one grandiose scheme
or another; what they would
have done with Australia’s bank-
ing system —illegally at that —if
there had been no testing of the
legality of their similarly hasty
attempts, similarly based on
faulty advice.
There would appear to be this
major difference —that the great
peanut scheme (they call the
things groundnuts in Britain)
was at least not a rash, ill-
considered attempt to clog up in
bureaucracy something known
to be eminently efficient and
working exceptionally well, as
the banks, of course, are in Aus-
tralia.
The idea in the East African
peanut venture was, and is,
colonial development, with sup-
plying an urgent need also in
mind. It seems the very sort of
thing that private enterprise
would once have been encour-
aged, with Government backing,
to undertake, and would have
made a success.
The actual undertaking
appears to have been a Socialist-
watered imitation of collectivist
farming; and, as with all
Socialist undertakings so far,
without any exception, estimates
of costs and of results were
about as wrong as they could be.
Following are some examples,
and editorial comments thereon,
from leader columns of the
British Press —all very instruc-
tive right at this moment in Aus-
tralia, where the local Socialists
ask for a mandate to go and do
likewise in the particular fields
they have their eyes on :
“Daily Mail.” “Miscalcula-
tions of the groundnuts planners
are everywhere in evidence in the
report.
“They estimated the cost of
clearing the ground at £3 17s. 4d.
an acre. In the first year the
actual cost was 10 times as much.
“They estimated that one acre
of ground could be cleared in
under two hours of tractor work.
It actually took eight hours.
“They estimated that sufficient
tractors would be available for
12.000 operational hours a week.
The highest achievement was
only 1700.
“They estimated that at least
150.000 acres would be cleared
by March of last year. The
realised total then was only
13,746 acres of bush more or less
cleared, and only 7500 planted.
“Labor overseers were
appointed who could not even
speak the language of their
native workmen ; and telephone
lines across the jungle were put
out of action by giraffes....
“The report shows the project
to be an even bigger failure than
was feared. We say that with
regret. The groundnuts scheme
was a good idea —and still is ;
but it was doomed from the
moment it became a political
stunt. It was used by the
Socialists to bolster their claim
to be the real Men of
Empire....
“Now the world knows the
extent of the fiasco. The scheme
has fallen down not through the
failure of the men on the spot,
who have worked hard and well,
but through the ignorance and
arrogance of Ministers,”
“Yorkshire Post.” —“There is
an enormous discrepancy be-
tween promise and performance
which must be explained without
waste of time. Twenty-three
million pounds have so far been
spent on clearing 50,000 acres,
which have yielded 2150 tons of
groundnuts and 800 tons of sun-
flower seeds. The millions spent
on this paltry return were, ori-
ginally intended to cover de-
velopment up to a point where
3,000,000 acres would be cleared
and would produce 600,000 tons
of groundnuts a year.
“One of two things is certain.
There must have been gross in-
competence in estimating the
progress of the scheme, or else
there must have been equally
gross inefficiency in pushing
forward the work of develop-
ment. It would have been pos-
sible to throw some light on
these questions if full records
had been kept. As it is the
average citizen has nothing
except the grave suspicion that
millions of his money have been
wasted. What a way to run a
business!
“Why was it, as the report
admits, that for many weeks the
number of tractor hours worked
were no more than one-sixth of
the estimate? Why was the
possibility of drought and
abnormal heat neglected? These
questions lead back to the old
and dominant question: Why
did the Government refuse to
undertake a small pilot scheme
before rushing into the main
project? The answer is simple.
The Government were in a
hurry. They launched the
scheme with a flourish of
trumpets,. They wanted to show
the world how Socialism does it.
They have indeed, and perhaps
the chief good that will come
from the scheme will be that it
will serve as a warning.”
“News Chronicle.” “The
Government approved the pro-
ject on the basis of a nine weeks’
survey. The problems of clear-
ing bush country were never
properly investigated. The
capacity of the port of Dar-es-
Salaam was grossly overesti-
mated—if indeed it was esti-
mated at all, No one seems to
have worried overmuch about
the rainfall in the Kongwa area,
Providence (U.S.A.) “Journal."
ENTHUSIASTIC WELCOME OF THE NEW BABY.
The problems of obtaining
machinery and spare parts were
oversimplified.
“On this rickety basis the Gov-
ernment embarked on a project
that was to cost millions of
pounds of public money. The
United Africa Company was
thrust into the business with little
organisation and no apparent
general plan. Before very long
something like chaos reigned.
“That chaos is not yet fully
sorted out. The auditors have
passed the accounts, but only
after making serious observa-
tions—surely a unique situation
for a British public corpora-
tion. ~.
“The biggest weakness of the
report is that it Conveys no assur-
ance that the lessons have been
taken to heart. It is an apologia.
It is full of excuses, but very
little promise. Still, success is
better than promise. The
groundnutters have sown their
wild oats as well as their sun-
flowers. They should be judged
now by the harvest they bring
in. But it had better be good.”
“Daily Express.” “It was
thought that 160 Europeans with
7500 Africans would clear the
first 150,000 acres. The present
staff numbers 1200 Europeans
and 28,000 Africans.”'
“Financial T imes.” “The
original scheme was for the
clearance of 2,500,000 acres at
an estimated cost of £8,000,000.
This was modified by the Wake-
field Mission, which, after a
visit to Africa, suggested that
3,210,000 acres should be
cleared by 1952 at an estimated
total, cost of £23,975,000
Up to March 31, 1949, liabilities
to the extent of £23,200,000 had
been incurred. And by now,
according to Mr. Strachey’s
statement in July, the original
estimate of the cost of the
scheme up to 1952 has already
been exceeded.”
“Daily Telegraph .”—“lt must
be said of the report that it is
free of the mirages which have
made the East African ground-
nuts scheme one of the worst
jokes in the world. The Cor-
poration have learned by ex-
perience bitter to themselves
and startlingly expensive to the
taxpayer that almost every fore-
cast made about the scheme in
the famous or infamous White
Paper of February, 1947, was
wildly false.”
"Time and Tide” (declaring
that the Ministerial diviners are
now “not even certain whether
it is a groundnuts or a sun-
flowers scheme”). “But, sun-
flowers or groundnuts, they have
cost £25,000,000 over two years,
and the result is—a promise of
550 tons of oil by the end of the
year, perhaps enough for a day’s
margarine ration.
“It is sad that as much should
have been spent on this ill-fated
venture as on the whole of the
rest of colonial development
since the war.”
Up for discussion in the
House of Commons last week,
the great Socialist peanut fiasco
had just led—in the usual way
with Socialist failures —to a
hunt for non - Government
scapegoats and the sacking as
such of one or two £3OOO-a-year
bureaucrats. But—as it would
be here —it’s a bit late to try
curing Socialist blunders with
sackings of a few officials when
the bills come in.
Jap Peace Treaty.
Touching on the intention to
arrange an early peace treaty
with the Japs, the generally well-
informed N. Y. “Herald Tri-
bune” correspondents Joseph
and Stewart Alsop have
described the plan as “one of the
great turning-points in the post-
war history of Asia,” and de-
clared that it is likely to be
completed in the early months
of next year.
The Russians had “insisted
that only four Powers should
write the treaty—the United
States, Great Britain, China and
the Soviet Union, with the
Soviet Union exercising a veto
power. The Western Powers,
with a wisdom gained from hard
experience, have refused to fall
into this trap. Instead, they
have proposed that the treaty be
written by all the 11 countries
which participated in the war
against Japan, and that there be
no veto power.”
The correspondents have
further reported that in the sort
of treaty envisaged by Acheson
and Bevin, Japan would be
granted complete internal
sovereignty. “The increasingly
disastrous American effort to
run everything in Japan from
timber-planting to factory sani-
tation would come to an abrupt
end. Within certain broad
limits the Japanese would be
free to govern themselves as
they saw fit. They would manage
their own foreign relations and
exercise all other functions of
sovereignty.”
Optimism on Russia.
In striking contrast to what
has been called the “hysteria”
of sections of the American
Press, London “Times” con-
tinues to view Russia optimisti-
cally, or, as the Americans
would no doubt retort, most
complacently:
“Nothing that is known of
Russian policy suggests that the
possession of atomic weapons—
which the Soviet Government
claims to have had since 1947
will make her more aggressive
in practice. She will continue,
no doubt, to expand where
weakness and disruption make
expansion easy, where Com-
munism has been allowed to
grow strong by the failure of
good government; but she will
halt, as she has always halted,
before resolute opposition
backed by internal strength.
The policy of Soviet Russia, as
Lord Derby said of Tsarist
Russia, is one of gradual ag-
gression, but it is not a policy
of war.”
That “Times” optimism, ad-
vanced in several leaders since
the news of Russia’s atom-
bombs, is supported by London
“Economist,” editorially argu-
ing that “the certainty or other-
wise of an arms race will now
be decided in the Kremlin, and,
however unaccountable its ulti-
mate designs may be, there is
at least some evidence to sug-
gest that the precipitation of a
major war is not among
them......
“It would, of course, be rash
to base an estimate of Russian
policy simply on the Soviet
Government’s published state-
ments.... .But there are sound
reasons, quite apart from Rus-
sian professions, for believing
that vigorous preparations for
an aggressive war form no part
of the Soviet grand strategy.
“The Russian system, based
upon a vast under-developed,
underpopulated empire, does
not need the outlet of war. In
any case, even if Russian
ideology were as essentially ag-
gressive as that of the Nazis, the


ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, now avail-
able.
m
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M 6261.
w
\
r*
sA/V
\
SS
\
r
W'
ss
r
until summer is nearly over,
and swelter day and night
INSULATE
your home NOW with
B.I.SLACWOOL
No house, home, oilice or building is modern and entirely
healthy unless ll Is Insulated - preferably with BJ.
SLAG WOOL.
FD
cW55i
su
Insulation
'Phonest Sydney M 3038. Melbourne MU 3506.
Brisbane B 3604. Adelaide C 7257. Perth 12107
BIG- 18
m
r
/
“Red Tape is not our business
11
Every large organization must have a standard
working procedure, particularly in the Life
Assurance business, where the welfare of three
million Australian policyholders and their
families is at stake. However, our free and
independent Life Offices do everything possible
to eliminate Red Tape. They are primarily
concerned in human values, human needs.
They exist to pay claims, and it is their pride
that these are paid as promptly as possible.
Personal happiness and security are the
business of our free
and independent
Life Offices . . . not
Red Tape.
EVERY AUSTRALIAN BENEFITS
BY THE ACTIVITIES OF
OUR FREE AND INDEPENDENT
LIFE
ASSURANCE
OFFICES
ISSUED BY THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
11/229
strategic conditions in Europe
have undergone a revolutionary
change. Even Hitler might have
hesitated to launch a war had
he known that aggression in
Europe would have brought the
United States into it from the
start. Only if the Americans
were to retreat to isolationism
would Russia be exposed to any
really strong temptation to ex-
pand by force. It does not need
an arms race to bring home to
the Kremlin America’s deter-
mination to remain concerned
with European defence. It en-
tails no more than steadfast
American participation in the
Atlantic Pact.
“The decisive reason, how-
ever, for believing that the Rus-
sians do not seek aggressive war
and are not preparing for it lies
in their almost certain belief
that war is not the best instru-
ment of Soviet ambitions. The
last two years have given Russia
danger signals enough of the
risks of direct Soviet interven-
tion in Europe. The revolt of
Tito and the Allied victory in
the Berlin air-lift are only the
two most outstanding examples
of damaging failure in the
Soviet conduct of foreign
affairs.”
On these and other grounds
the “Economist” agrees with the
“Times” in concluding that “the
likelihood of an immediate
Soviet threat to peace is re-
mote.”
“Too Much Steel.”
With its output running at a
record 15,250,000 tons a year,
Britain’s still-free steel industry
(reports London “Daily
Express”) sold up to September
1,200,000 tons overseas this year,
against 850,000 tons in the sarpe
period last year.
Which, says the “Express,” “is
good news for the Dominions
and colonies, which have only
been getting token supplies in
the past.” The market, however,
is being rushed:
“All over the world the steel
famine is being conquered. The
threat now is too much steel.
The Americans, back to working
only 86i per cent, of capacity,
are looking for export orders.
In Germany steel output grows
monthly, and although that
nation could use all her steel for
years to come, export orders get
priority. With Belgium and
Luxemburg producing great
quantities of steel and Japan get-
ting her furnaces going again the
outlook for world steelmakers is
not so rosy as in the famine
years.”
Tolerating Corns.
Can democracies afford the
luxury of tolerating Com-
munists, who admittedly give
their first loyalty to a foreign
Government and work for it in
international conspiracy?
The one democratically-run
country to have thus far at least
partly faced up to that question
—the U.S.A. —has answered
No ; expressed in the conviction
of 11 leaders of the American
Communist party on a charge of
criminal conspiracy, this based
not on some singular Com-
munist activities in the U.S. but
clearly on what is common
Communist practice everywhere.
The conviction, however, was
under a special U.S. law, and,
as London “Spectator” points
out in the following comment,
does not really resolve the
issue:
“The conviction... . restates
in its simplest form the oldest
dilemma of democratic govern-
ment: to what extent can the
right of free speech for non-
conforming minorities be recon-
ciled with the State’s instinct of
self-preservation? The debate
on this dilemma is one which
will, of its nature, continue until
it is put an end to by some
force—Communism for example
—whiVE rWc not rpmoniw the
Which does not recognise tne
liberal conception of freedom.
“The major thesis of the trial,
that rVirnmnnisK are nrenared
If tbh S
it they get the chance, to use
force in overthrowing the Gov-
ernment of the United States,
iq n „. „/u;„u rennirp<s
is not one which requires
elaborate proof; the theoretical
distinction between an evolu-
tionary and a revolutionary ap-
proach to politics has been
abundantly proved in recent
nractice The real issue of the
practice. Ihe real issue ot the
trial was whether, in the present
State of the world. Communists
can be accorded the full rights
of democratic citizenship, and
that issue, unfortunately, the
trial has not settled.”
Devaluation Task.
Arguing that on the most
optimistic assumptions the losses
from Britain’s gold reserve can
hardly be stopped until Britain’s
own exports of manufactured
goods earn twice as many dollars
as they have been doing
so far this year, “Manchester
Guardian” indicates the huge
task this means: —■
“To double the dollar income
from exports is likely now to
demand an increase to as much
as 270 per cent, by quantity. In
sterling, they will have to be
worth as much as £3OO million
a year more,
“That is an extra 17 per cent,
on the present value of our
[British] exports to the whole
world. It means that we have to
send to the dollar countries an
extra 3 per cent, of our total
national output of goods and
services of all kinds. That would
be an enormous change for a
country far more flexible
economically than Britain has
lately been. But it is the size
of the task we are compelled to
undertake.”
Dragnet Digest.
Recognising China’s Corns. —In the
behind-scenes considerations of China
(reports “New York Times’s” Wash-
ington correspondent James Reston)
there has been “the desire of Britain,
India, Australia and the Netherlands
to recognise the Communists.” On
the other hand, most observers in
Washington “assume that recognition
of the Peiping Government would
help the spread of Communism and
that not recognising them would place
serious barriers on the spread of
Communist influence.” The other
countries named, however, are de-
scribed by the correspondent as
being “more interested in doing busi-
ness with China than in anything
else.”
* * * » *
Holding Hong Kong. —Pointing out
that the Chinese Communists, if so
inclined, could almost certainly im-
pose a ruinous boycott on Hong
Kong, a Far East correspondent of
N. Y. “Herald Tribune” recalls that
the colony was almost put out of
business that way during the 1920’5.
Also, he adds, to support a garrison
of 30,000 men there is no light thing
for Great Britain in her present
straits. Hence, “In due course
America may be told that if she
wants Hong Kong to remain as an
anti-Communist bastion she must
help pay for it.”
♦ * * *
Learning His “Confession —When
thieves fall out they’re almost matey
compared with Communists having
at one another’s throats. Instance
the Belgrade Communist newspaper
“Borba” disclosing (as quoted in
“Manchester Guardian” by Alexan-
der Werth, reporting from Belgrade)
that Bulgaria will shortly have its
own Rajk trial, “the role of Rajk
in the Sofia performance of the
Budapest burlesque being played by
the purged Vice-Premier Kostov.”
“Borba” adds, however, that the trial
has been postponed for the time
being “as Kostov has not had time
properly to learn his part”!
* * * ♦
Monty “In the Dark.’ 9 —Under the
heading “Western Defence Hindered
by U.S. Secrecy,” a “Yorkshire Post”
correspondent reports the U.S. as
maintaining a veil of secrecy regard-
ing its own intended part, which has
produced a marked sense of frustra-
tion in Western Union defence plan-
ning, though the U.S. has been kept
fully informed by the other partners
to the Atlantic treaty. As a result,
“Field-Marshal Montgomery, being
quite in the dark about American
intentions, is mainly engaged in build-
ing up an effective land force and a
tactical air force composed of jet-
fighters, on the assumption that the
American role would be to blast key
centres and atom-bomb Russian
cities!”
* - ' » * *
A Yank at the Court of Siam. —
Very' much so, too; as indicated by
a probably little-known circumstance
chronicled m this extract from an
article by a correspondent of N. Y.
«jj era ld Tribune”: “The fate of
Siam is a matter of particular im-
portance to Americans. Except for
the Philippines no country in south-
east Ask has had closer or more
f r j enc jiy n es w itß the United States;
n o country is more hospitable
to American enterprise. American
travellers are admitted to Siam with-
Qift the necessity of a visa It is a
po j nt G f interest that the King
of Siam, now in Switzerland, is
American-born.”
*.*.**
Co / n t Z ul t ni f‘
P° mt for all his squabble with
tbe Kremlin, Tito is first of all a
Communist, a London “Observer
writer notes that collectivisation of
Soot “at* 7*met
comparable to that set in the Soviet
Union 20 years ago. Between the
°f 1948 and the middle of last
summer the number of peasant co-
operatives” in Yugoslavia rose from
to more than 4500. Surely,
the writer comments, those who
believe that Tito, because of Russian
tepffl’nHSiSSSSS feff^centSn 1 ”
lb are indulging in self-deception.
* * * *
Caustic on the U.S. —At a launch-
jng of one of his firm’s ships in
Belfast, Harland and Wolff chairman
Sir Frederick Rebbeck referred
caustically to the U.S. Government
bav j n g raised the subsidy to American
shipbuilders from 50 to 60 per cent,
after the devaluation of the pound,
Sir Frederick. (as reported by London
Times ) said: The United States
did not mind building our motor-cars
or doing anything for us, but they
did not want us to do anything for
them, except incur a very big debt
that would keep us in slavery for
years and years.” He did not think
the United States would allow many
of its ships to be built outside
America. There had been no order
of any magnitude for British ship-
yards for practically 12 months, and
it did not look as though there were
going to be any.
* * * *
Poles’ Dilemma.—The “Oder-Neisse
|j ne » w hereby Poland and Russia
have b . oth annexed large helpings of
territory is described by a staff
wr j ter of N. Y. “Herald Tribune,”
¥ ely visiting Germany, as “perhaps
consequenS Europe.”
The correS pondent comments that no
Q erman “, w ho hopes to have a
political future in Germany” can or
wil , accept those losses as final In
tbe i ong run j t w jn pro bably be the
Poles who will d&y the price, ns in
W The P a y nn l exed P ter Vitories
t are th f levers b t h . the Sov . iet
Umon dommates Polish-German rela-
tions, The Germans cannot recover
the territory without Soviet consent
except by war, which would ruin
them once more. The Poles can
never hold the territory securely be-
cause they know that the Soviets
always have the possibility of making
an alliance with Germany by another
partition of Poland.”


K 32
v^isL\
! > %Z»
%.
5->.
y
tfpO*
io
o#s\ f
- I fg£&* *
/jlsin*' ol
--Hg' '* /
by Constellation on the “KANGAROO” Route
you may choose any of the Constellation
services from Sydney on four days a week to London —
by Q.E.A. and 8.0.A.C.
Travel on the “Kangaroo” Service — the through route
to Europe. Enjoy unsurpassed comfort all-the-way, without
change of aircraft . . . three night stops ... no dollar
problems . . . traditionally good service . . . excellent
food ... on the world’s most colourful route.
Stop-over, if you wish, at ports en route
at no extra fare. Special concessions to round-the-world
travellers. Return passage guaranteed.
Consult your travel agent, or
II I A and B'O’A'C
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
It’ll make a wonderful
difference to Gout
car, too!
HERE’S WHAT USERS SAY
ABOUT THIS NEW KINO OF
TYRE
;cvc-^-.'
• :
Mr. Austin Dwyer, Motor
Distributor, Wollongong,
N.S.W.: “Super-Cushions
made a remarkable dif-
ference to the all-round
riding comfort of my car.
Even after the longest journey, I felt less fatigued than
if I had travelled a quarter of the distance on ordinary
tyres.”
W More Wr 'e
[But only 24 lbs.'
lof air pressure.
UNBELIEVABLY SMOOTHER WK
is a biggej*
Super-Cushion « h^ds more
softer tyre. 241bs 0 f
1 pressure MV'"" r M air, but run uB ual 28 to
air instead Of yhe d ,, out .
32 Shocks are cusuv
Thousands of Super-Cushions
are already in use in Australia,
on new and older cars. If you
want the smoothest ride you’ve,
ever had, more car economy 1
and greater safety, switch to
Super-Cushions. See your
Goodyear Dealer today!
F
THE NEW
BY
GOODYEAR
cao-iM
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S NO. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wies men
V T V
“Good judges will tell you that
no horse of today can live up to the
champions of the past.”
—Sporting writer.
Where is there a horse, for
instance, of the calibre of
Carbine?
4* 4* 4*
“Quiet goat, good milker, kidding
end of month.” — Suburban paper.
We know another who milks
the taxpayer and kids the
electors.
4* 4* 4*
“Black homburgs. Despite any
views to the contrary, they’re right,
y’ know, for formal or semi-formal
occasions. By Scott’s, Herbert John-
son, Failsworth. All sink lined, 60s.
to 775. 6d.”
—Melbourne “Sun" advt.
Advertiser is “plugging” them.
“The Handley Page ‘Hermes’ is a
new pasteurised passenger liner.”
There’s absolutely no risk of
infection for passengers.
4* 4* 4*
“In Texarkana, Arkansas, charged
with severely wounding her husband
with a knife, Mrs. Hazel Washington
maintained: ‘We play like that all
the time.’ ”
They liked games with some
point in them.
4* 4* 4*
Impudent.
“When about to use a No. 7 iron
to play the ball on to the green a
golfer noticed a fish moving leisurely
upstream in an adjacent creek. With
a quick thrust and a scoop the fish
was lan'ded on the bank.”
—Provincial Press.
I was about to chip up dead
to the pin when my stroke was
interrupted by the cod.
“Betyerduffit! ” he said as he
stuck his head above the surface
of the near-by creek. He then
moved leisurely upstream,
glared at me through some
rushes, and made a rude noise.
Most annoyed, I sneaked round
and found him as cheeky as you
like, searching for lost balls in
the mud.
“Hello, mug!” he said. This
was too much. Seizing my driver
I gave him a hefty sock in the
tail that sent him sailing over to
the green. He nose-dived directly
into the hole, his tail sticking up
and flashing with rage. As I
came up I could not comprehend
his mumblings as his nose was
wedged deep into the tin, but he
sounded most annoyed.
“Ha! Ha!” I cried in glee,
“Tinned fish! Tinned fish! Let
that be a lesson to you.” As I
wended my way back to the
clubhouse I saw him extract him-
self and wander sadly back to
the creek ; but bless me, when I
reached the 19th, if I didn’t go
and get canned myself!
Jonas Dill.
“When a girl’s whistled at, it may
be the turnmg-pomhin her hfe.”
T . un t
Lots turning wife, we must
agree,
Provides a lesson salut ry,
Smee girls dont know-when
~ Z nr h*
If they ll get sugai ... or be
saitea.
Jean Stanger.
Cut Out for the Job.
“Natural curves will be more im-
portant than ever in the 1950 fashions,
and plunging necklines will plunge
fven deeper.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Dear ladies, if you’d win your
man
Don’t take your mirror up and
scan
Your face to see if tell-tale lines
Are visible around your eyes.
Such effects you may minimise.
For these are not the right
designs.
Nor should you flourish
lacquered nails
To bring him to the altar-rails;
And hasten, ladies, to expunge
All risque words when you
express
Your inmost thoughts. A low-
cut dress
Will make your suitor take the
plunge.
BERT.
Off the Record.
“Too often in references to our
leading political figures disproportion-
?^S SS „i S J e l, s^T,L h e%^L S ' d o!
the more human angle — their hobbies,
recreations and the sports they
follow .’’ Political writer.
The Bathurst Burr, we dis-
covered, used to be an enthusi-
astic snooker-player, but had to
give the game up—every time
“Ropes a bit slack—going to be tough for the
bicycle act.”
he was confronted by the Red
his spine turned to jelly and he
had to grab the jigger to save
himself falling to his knees and
grovelling. Although he never
got beyond C grade at tennis,
our local edition of Abe Lincoln
studiously groomed himself in
preparation for the Common-
wealth Treasuryship through
this sport by developing an un-
canny ability to net everything.
An enthusiastic bank-collector,
he hopes to resume his inter-
rupted work on this special
hobby after December 10. He
is also an amateur fiddler, and
has brought to perfection the
art of getting on everybody’s
G-string. His favorite popular
“hit” tune at present is “Blues
in the Night.”
Bert, the Barton Barnacle,
proudly boasts two hobbies of
which he never tires: collecting
Press-cuttings of his speeches
and collecting Press-cuttings of
speeches in praise of, his
speeches. Other special interests
are in the turf and a study of
the doctrine of Reincarnation —
these are significantly correlated
in view of his patent hope of
seeing himself at some future
time as a G.-G. Bowls is his
favorite sport—the bias has a
particular fascination for him.
Chief nocturnal pastime is writ-
ing two new books: “Three
Homes” and “U.N.O. — What?”
Favorite popular song is “Gone
With What Wind?” Dabbles in
surrealist sculpture ; his study of
the Bathurst Burr as a composite
of Abe Lincoln, The Mad Mul-
lah, Solomon, Disney’s Dopey
and Professor Einstein being a
masterpiece of understatement.
Eddie, the Dario Darling: At
one time used to cultivate a
garden until it became too rank.
As an amateur boxer he has
always depended entirely on a
strong Left. Once took up fish-
ing, but dropped it after com-
plete lack of success, despite his
use of a costly Brisbane Line.
Loves skating on thin ice.
Favorite sport is watching base-
ball, at which he becomes so
excited when the umpire calls
“Strike two! ” that it takes Eddie
all his time to stop himself from
shouting back “Good on yer,
sport, we’re with yer —and we’ll
see you ain’t victimised by the
bloodsucking capitalistic octer-
puses, either!” Long-marker at
golf due to‘fatal habit of always
finding the rough and appearing
a little lost with his woods,
though it was claimed that once
he drove from his electorate as
far as Collaroy. Favorite “hit”
tune: “Ail I Want For Christ-
mas Is Me Two Front Teeth.”
The Melbourne Cockatoo:
Favorite hobby is collecting
feathers. Favorite disks: “On a
Slow Boat to China” and “I
Nearly Missed the Buss.” As an
amateur wrestler his favorite
hold ij} the body-Press, and as
an amateur boxer his most
popular punch the rabbit-killer.
rake P of » Labor V f^tbal i
team, he started the vogue of
taking the field with fi ve . days ’
growth of beard on. A cele-
brated crocodile-hunter, he in-
variably bottles the tears which
he squeezes out of his day’s bag
for use in election campaigns
wb en referring to the oppressed
wage-plugs
Fixer Hashley; Favorite
reading is the Oxford Dictionary
and a book of classical quota-
tions. Favorite “hit” tune:
“You Was.” A lifelong lover of
billiards, though peculiarly he
has never evinced the slightest
interest in the sound of cannons.
He dabbles in painting, though
he makes a horrible mess of
anything in oils. A real handy-
man, he has the reputation of
being able to “fix” anything
while using nothing but an un-
limited quantity of soft-soap,
some kid and a lot of wires,
for which the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment foots the bill, anyway.
A notable swimmer, he has de-
veloped the “crawl” to a very
1o w standard. Enthusiastic
gymnasium-attender, he prefers
to swing the heavy bag rather
than punch it.
Senator (“Jalap”) McKenna:
His favorite record is “I Never
Knew the Gun Was Loaded.”
Favorite reading the “Lancet,”
The Specialist. His recent
attempt to learn panel-beating
so got him down that he had to
get a capitalistic doctor to give
him a special tonic, those in the
prescribed free-medicine formu-
lary not being strong enough.
Senator Don (“Dribbler”)
Cameron: Favorite “hit” tune:
“Just Droolin’ Along.” Had to
give up as an amateur six-day
bike-rider because his attempts
to compress the time into a 40-
hour week threatened to induce
a nervous breakdown.
Deddy the Corio Special:
Favorite current “hit” tunes:
“Oh What a Beautiful Mourn-
ing” and “My One and Only
Highland Fling.” When seek-
ing inspiration for a new drive
for his Department of Post-war
Reconstruction he loves to take
a ride on a merry-go-round.
BO.
Bail Out!
“The fossilised skeleton of a
30,000,000-year-old sea-cow has been
unearthed by University of California
researchers.” — Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
If Homo sapiens had yet
Some thirty million years ago
Appeared on earth, it’s safe to
bet
There’s little we can hope to
know
A bout his looks and way of life,
Except that he was clad in
skins.
And lived in endless fear and
strife,
With human frailties and sins.
Yet we can safely venture now
To say that, like his modern
ilk,
He never knew the day some cow
Would give him pints of
watered milk.
D. H. E.


SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIEUTOP, A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on 0.0. D. Orders.
DF
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
D
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
cf high-priced imported
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a trac-
tion ol their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli
cator will reproduce
Typing. Writing. Plans.
Music, etc.
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents —
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold & Co. Pty. Ltd.
. Norman Bros. Ply Ltd.
. Vardon & Sons Ltd.
. Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
11
Qln
m
m
»
z
vk
Si
It’s new ! A streamlined Chrome Set that you’ll
delight to use and be proud to own. The automatic
shaving angle and Superkeen “Gem” Blades of sur-
gical steel, give cool, clean, drag-free shaves that
keep you neat and avoid 5 o’clock shadow.
New “GEM” de luxe Chrome Sets
ic “Gem” Chromium Plated Streamline Model in handsome
case of Ivory Plastic with 5 “Gem” double-life Blades. 20/-.
■jfc Also new Chrome Strop Outfit with automatic stropper, as
illustrated, complete with 8 Blades in Ivory Plastic Gift
Case. 35/-.
“Gem” Double-life Blades, 5 for 1/9. Sold Everywhere.
New GEM
Streamlined Chrome Sets
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
Stewards provided the highlight of
an all-round eventful afternoon’s
racing at Canterbury on Saturday
when, after the running of the
Flying, they impounded for inspec-
tion the saddle and also the racing-
plates of the favorite, Blue Lass, who
had finished fifth in the field of 10.
The gear was evidently found to be
in order, and subsequently returned
to its owners, but the stipes opened,
and then adjourned, an inquiry into
Blue Lass’s performance.
It was not the first time that Blue
Lass had been the subject of an
inquiry. Only a month back there
was an investigation after the mare
had shaped poorly in a race at Rose-
hill. On that occasion explanations
were accepted, as they had been on
two previous occasions—once at Gos-
ford (N.S.W.) and once in Mel-
bourne.
If, as has been said, travel broadens
the mind, Blue Lass should be an
animal of rare intellect ; her racing
record reads like the itinerary of a
Cook’s tour. Last season the then-
four-year-old Beau Port mare had
nine starts; opening the season with
a second at Parkes (N.S.W.), she then
ran first at Gosford (N.S.W.), was
unplaced at Wyong (N.S.W.), first at
Doomben, first at Lismore (N.S.W.),
unplaced at Moorefield, unplaced at
Woodend (Vic.), first at Caulfield and
second at Eagle Farm.
Saturday’s Flying Handicap, in
which Blue Lass was unplaced, was
won well by Caruso. A cranky cus-
tomer who seems to do his best
when starting from the mobile barrier
stalls in use at Canterbury and Rose-
hill, Caruso was always among the
leaders, and had the race well in his
keeping when he hit the front at the
distance. Roman Step, finishing
strongly, made up a good deal of
ground to land second money, with
Matinee a close and promising third.
Racing luck has strange spells and
spasms. A year or so back jockey
N. Sellwood struck a bad patch in
which he ran up a sequence of over
80 consecutive losing mounts. Now
J. Thompson, who last season fought
out the premiership with Sellwood,
seems to have struck the same sort
of patch, while Sellwood cannot put
a foot wrong. Sellwood’s win on
Caruso represented the middle leg of
a hat-trick on Saturday; the previous
race, the Campsie Mixed (1 If.), he
had won on the Double Remove colt
Double Sea, and Sellwood followed
up by winning the Canterbury Park
Handicap (9f.) on Air Flare.
Hailing originally from Westralia,
where he won the Breeders’ Plate,
St. Leger, Summer Cup and other
good races, the now-aged Air Flare
is particularly partial to Canterbury,
having scored three wins and a
number of minor placings on that
course. He looked to have no chance
on Saturday when trapped in a
pocket opposite the Leger, but Sell-
wood managed to extricate him,
switched to the outside, and the old
fellow came home at a great lick to
win by a head from Johnny Zero,
with Duke of Syke a distant third.
First past the post in the Welter,
the 15-to-l chance McKechnie (C.
Clare) had to survive a double-
barrelled protest before finally receiv-
ing the decision, G. Moore, on the
runner-up, High Order, entered a pro-
test on the grounds of interference
near the 6-furlongs mark, and R.
Selkrig, rider of the third horse,
Tithonus, protested against both
McKechnie and High Order on the
same grounds; all appeals were dis-
missed.
Speaking of appeals, stewards had
a busy day at Newcastle (N.S.W.) on
Saturday, when they had to deal
with appeals in three races; two were
dismissed, but the other was upheld,
and was something of a rarity. In
the Flying Welter one Imitation was
first past the post, with Mocassin
and May Day deadheating for second
a neck behind the winner. The rider
of Mocassin entered a protest, which
was upheld, with the result that
Mocassin and May Day were placed
a deadbeat for first.
* * * *
The programme at Moonee Valley
on Saturday was an unusual one in
that, of seven races decided, only the
13-furlongs Bulla Handicap carried
no restriction on the age of con-
testants. The Moreland Stakes and
the Glenbervie Plate were for two-
year-olds; the Somerton Handicap
for three-year-olds, the Strathmore
Handicap for four-, five- and Six-
year-olds and the Fawkner High-
weight, run in two divisions, was for
horses four-year-old and over. Maybe
it’s a good idea; well-backed horses,
at any rate, won every race, with the
longest-priced winners a couple at
11 to 2. '
For the mile Strathmore Handicap
the consistent Brueghel five-year-old
Flemish started at 10 to 9 on, and,
before eventually passing the post
winner by a half-length, gave his sup-
porters enough thrills to warn them
off laying odds-on for all time. As
well as appearing hopelessly pocketed
at the turn, Flemish didn’t seem to
be going at all kindly. Then, when
Breasley got him clear on the outside,
he started to veer as soon as he saw
the whip. Breasley had to ride him
home with hands and heels only, but
Flemish proved good enough to beat
Savoy and Derrymore. Filipino’s
close fourth suggested that he is ap-
proaching winning form.
Sydney owner F. W. Hughes con-
tinued the splendid run he has had
with his two-year-old team this season
when American Edition collected
second money in the Moreland Stakes
for fillies and Folderol (S. Ralph)
turned in a remarkable performance
to win the Glenbervie Plate for colts
and geldings. Vanquisher of favorite
American Edition in the Moreland
was the Hua filly Slick Chick (W.
Williamson), who impressed as likely
to live up to her name. Defeating
Conjuror and Captain Red in the
Glenbervie, Folderol just got up, after
having been almost hopelessly out of
his ground with three furlongs to go;
in addition, he was forced to take the
turn many horses wide, right out in
the centre of the track.
Another who had to overcome all
manner of difficulties before scoring
a good win was the Hellespont colt
Boghasi (V. Hartney) in the mile
Somerton Handicap. Boghasi, who
should win more races in the near
future, began slowly, and met with
repeated checks, but came home
determinedly to down Charkha and
Perform. Divisions of the Fawkner
Highweight went to Laimell (J. Pur-
tell) and Lady Helant (J. Gilmore).
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Greystanes Nursery: Rippling Tide,
1; Oriane, 2; Niaranga, 3. Three-
year-old : Lady Kristine, 1; Belle
Amber, 2; Nerscot, 3. Strathfield
Juvenile: Gold Coin, 1; Starlight,
2; Court Orator, 3. Novice: Purple
Prince, 1; Double Sea, 2; Arabian
Prince, 3. Varroville Handicap:
Field Boy, 1; Aqua Regis, 2; Sheba,
3. Homebush Handicap; Cape Ned-
dick, 1; Silver Buzz, 2; Brig o’
Doon, 3. Macquarie Grove Handi-
cap: Blue Diamond, 1; Matinee, 2;
Pigeon Pie, 3.
* * * *
Although unacclimatised after his
rush trip out here, worried by the
unfamiliar conditions, and con-
sequently very much off his game,
the Czech tennis star Drobny proved
a great drawcard at the N.S.W. lawn-
tennis championships conducted at
White City (Sydney) throughout last
week. From the financial viewpoint
it was, despite the loss of one whole
day due to rain, the best tournament
the N.S.W. association has ever had,
with the exception of 1933, when
Fred Perry and his henchmen were
out here and Jack Crawford was in
his prime against them; even so,
the difference in gate-money was only
a few hundred pounds, and much
higher prices were charged in 1933.
The gate for the major finals on
Saturday was a shade short of £l2OO.
In 1933 Crawford was in the pro-
cess of running up his string of seven
N.S.W. singles championships which
stood as a record until Bromwich
equalled it on Saturday. It was
obvious all through the tournament
that Brom was playing as good tennis
“Liar!”
as he has produced since the war,
and was going to be very hard to
beat. In the other half of the draw
Sidwell swept all before him to reach
the final. Drobny, after just scraping
home in a splendid match with Bob
McCarthy, was then very easily
eliminated in straight sets by young
Worthington. Drobny played so
badly that Worthington could have
derived very little satisfaction from
the win; he was then himself almost
as easily eliminated by Sidwell in
the semi-final.
Came the final on Saturday, with
a confident Bromwich in fine touch
against a strangely-subdued Sidwell.
Sidwell’s forte is a crashing service
followed up by net-rushing tactics,
lightning volleys and unplayable
smashes, but there was none of this
in his game on Saturday. His first
service was missing about nine times
out of ten, and it seemed to take
all the sting out of the rest of his
game. He chose to play Bromwich
at Brom’s own game—the long base-
line rallies; we’re still waiting to see
the player who can beat Bromwich
at that caper. When Sidwell did
occasionally venture to the net it was
in rather half-hearted fashion, and as
often as not proved unsuccessful. The
match, then, was one of long-drawn
rallies —splendid entertainment, if not
spectacular—and Bromwich was the
victor, 6-3, 10-8, 3-6, 6-3.
The women’s singles final between
Mrs. Bolton and Joyce Fitch pro-
duced a much more exciting match.
Miss Fitch lacks Mrs. Boltoh’s beau-
tiful style and quick, easy coverage
of the court, but she is a fighter all
the way, and that won the day.
Playing some of her very best tennis,
Mrs. Bolton won the first set very
easily, and was sailing comfortably
through the second until, with the
score 5-3 in her favor, and holding
match-point, she suddenly ran into
a very determined brick wall. Miss
Fitch saved the match-point, won
four games in a row to take the set,
and won the final set, to bag her
first N.S.W. singles title 4-6, 7-5, 7-5.
* * * *
An unusual feature of the match
in which the Australian cricket
tourists met a South African XI at
Salisbury last week was that the
S’Africans began both their innings
with an immediate and successful
appeal against the light before a ball
had been bowled. Really, then, com-
mencing their first innings on Mon-
day (after Australia on the previous
Saturday had notched up 312), the
S’Africans were thoroughly routed
by speed merchants Lindwall and
Walker for a total of 84, of which
opener Wynne contributed 35; Lind-
wall took 4 for 6 and Walker 4 for
22. Forced to follow on, they at
once appealed, and carried on on
Tuesday, doing a little better with
a tally of 156; Australia, by an
innings and 72 runs.
Winning the toss, and deciding to
bat on a good wicket, Victoria com-
menced badly in the Sheffield Shield
match v. W.A. at Perth on Friday.
The visitors had lost 4 for 109, but
recovered somewhat to finish with a
tally of 259. In reply the Wes-
tralians shaped very poorly, apart
from a good knock of 67 by Edwards,
a 49 by Charlesworth and the 17 put
up by Carmody before he was run
out; next highest score was 8 and
the total 154. For the rest of the
afternoon on Saturday spectators en-
dured a deadly display of dull batting
by Victorian openers Meuleman and
McDonald, who had 109 on the board
at stumps and seemed set for eternity.
* * * *
Henley Regatta seems to have lost
much of its charm of yesteryear.
New bridge-building operations have
eliminated the gaily-decorated house-
boats of other days, and with them
seems to have gone much of the
carnival spirit of the occasion. How-
ever, by other standards, Saturday’s
37th Henley gathering was particu-
larly successful. Over 400 oarsmen,
representing five States, were engaged
in the 50 events, and there was a
bumper crowd to watch them.
Visitors from Sydney won two good
events when Haberfield took the
Stewards’ Challenge Cup and Sydney
Rowing Club the Founder’s Challenge
Cup.
s)c
Pickworth, the Victorian pro.,
seems to have a permanent lien on
the Ampol Thousand. He won it
for the fourth successive time last
week with 277—a record for the 72-
holes Woodlands (Vic.) course—
made up of 68, 71, 71, 67.
A few minutes earlier Cremin
(N.S.W.) came in with a 67 to set
a course record, Pickworth equalled
it, and when everybody was more or
less ready to go home in rolled
Jamieson (Vic.) with another 67.
* * * *
Providing the best bit of stoush
sighted at Leichhardt in many a day,
Johnny Gleeson (8.2£) and Ray Cole-
man (8.8£) were very evenly matched
in everything bar weight, and when
that’s the case the outcome is almost
inevitable. Early in the piece Gleeson
was an absolute little fighting fury,
and won the first five rounds de-
cisively, but thereafter the difference
in weight began to tell. Coleman
took the last seven rounds and the
final decision, with an overpowering
battery of body blows, left jabs and
right uppercuts.


FD
No. 4 of a
Series
m m
1
•EVERY CUSTOMER A FRIEND and a voluntary
advocate", was a slogan used when Ronaldson-
Tippett built Engines back in 1904, a truth which has
been proved over the years.
When, later, the firm produced the Petrol Engine
Illustrated, customers were eager to buy it on the
strength of the Ronaldson-Tippeft name and per*
suaded their friends to do likewise.
To-day, Ronaldson-Tippett friendships are far and
wide ... a striking testimony to the truth of the oft-
repeated statement; "IT PAYS TO BUY THE RIGHT
ENGINE FIRST!"
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Showrooms: 628 Bourke St., Mel-
bourne. V.S.IF. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., 42
Bridge St., Sydney, Q’land Distributors; Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty., Ltd,, Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
ROfIiAIDSON TIPPETT
ENGINES
The strongest ready-to-use glue (or sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work*
1
M
■ ■I
h
• .-/#
/Js
' '■
- ,C. ■ 1
■ ’
nranm
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
SWISS FINISHING SCHOOL
Le Colombier
A private and select Finishing School
for the Study of Languages ( French
and German ), Continental Culture,
deportment and domestic science.
For prospectus apply to: —
MAJOR and MADAM JACQUES H. E. CHABLE
Olinda Falls Rd., MT. DANDENONG, Victoria.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Cost of Fattening.
“Outback”: C. A. Burcher, of
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd. (Bris-
bane), estimates that today a
good-quality fattening-age store
bullock bought at present market
value of £l6 10s. costs a fattener
£24 9s. sd. before it is ready for
market. Assuming the bullock
dressed 6801 b., the cost would
be equivalent to 725. 3d. per
1001 b. Cost includes £2 10s.
profit to the fattener.
Burcher, who visited the
U.S.A. some time ago, points
out that at the time of his visit
80 Hereford steers, in the Blue
Stem country, three and a half
years old, realised 31.75 dollars
per 1001 b.; the bullocks weighed
between 1600-17001 b. liveweight,
and they returned their owner
513 dollars per head, or £l7l in
Australian currency at that time.
From a world-parity basis, he
says, it would appear thati beef
in Australia is most economrcally
priced.
There was probably never a
more acute shortage of store
cattle in Australia than today,
which was primarily the result
of drought, the slaughtering of
dairy calves, the labor shortage
and, perhaps, the incidence of
taxation. His estimate of the
cost of fattening a bullock today
applied to “inside” fatteners.
In the case of leasehold lands
farther out costs would vary
considerably. Net return on
capital invested is not nearly so
high as is generally imagined,
and from a fattener’s viewpoint
there is ample justification for
today’s cattle prices.
Pink-eye Remedy.
“Agric”: F. C. S. Ireland,
Caryrie, Warwick (Q.), has had
great success for the past 10 years
in treating sheep suffering from
pink-eye with argyrol. His rate
is 10 per cent, for mild cases,
15 per cent, for others. It is
administered with an eye-
dropper, usually two drops to
each eye.
In numerous cases he treated
in the western district of Vic-
toria, one treatment was suffi-
cient to clear up the trouble, and
in most instances the sheep were
able to go grazing within a few
minutes of treatment. In severe
cases where abscesses had formed
in the eye, two or three applica-
tions quickly effected a cure. In
using argyrol it is necessary to
get the genuine article.
Farm Accounting.
“Recorder”: Because th e
taxation return requires only de-
tails of assessable income and
allowable deductions under
classified headings, it is wrong
to assume that records of other
items, e.g., purchase of build-
"Not so crowded as Bondi — eh, miss ?”
ings, loans, drawings for pri-
vate use, needn’t go in. Taxable
income cannot be calculated
with any accuracy unless the
overall effect of revenue and
capital items is taken into ac-
count. Moreover, the Act specifi-
cally requires that sufficient
records be kept to enable the
taxable income to be “readily
ascertained” (section 263).
The department checks the
accuracy of returns by recon-
ciling the net improvement in
assets, plus private living ex-
penses on one hand, with income
as per the returns over a period
of years on the other. If the
latter figure is not supported by
a balance-sheet or summary of
private and capital receipts and
payments the Commissioner
must have recourse to the
notorious Forms XF and LEI.
These statements, forwarded at
irregular intervals, involve
minute calculations of cost of
living, assets and liabilities over,
perhaps, six years. Merely to
forestall them makes worth
while the keeping of a funda-
mental record. Nor should the
power of the Commissioner to
make arbitrary assessments
when the accuracy of the income
cannot be established be for-
gotten.
A current bank account should
be used. The problem can be
simplified by banking receipts
from every source intact, and
drawing cheques for all business
payments, whether allowable de-
ductions or not. Cash for
household expenses can be
drawn at regular intervals or,
alternatively, traders’ accounts
paid by cheque for subsequent
debit to private “drawings.”
Where cash payments must be
made they should be noted and
a reimbursement cheque drawn
immediately. If this is done
every outgoing is set down on
cheque-butts; there is no need
to rely solely on receipts and
dockets, which may be mislaid.
Once the payment is recorded
on a cheque-butt the farmer can
forget it until the butts are writ-
ten up into cash-book or sheets.
Whether the latter record is
compiled by the farmer or his
accountant is not important.
Though the pass-book shows
all amounts banked to the
farmer’s credit, it does not
show details of each deposit. A
carbon - copy deposit - book
should be used. In this way
the nature of all lodgments can
be checked to ensure that non-
assessable items are not in-
cluded with taxable income. If
statements from butter-fac-
tories, agents, meatworks, etc.,
are kept they can be checked
with deposits. Thus all income
is included and the Treasury
stopped from taxing fictitious
income.
At June 30 the farmer must
make a note of several “swing-
ing” items —amounts owing,
debts due, remittances for pro-
duce dispatched prior to the
close of the year and not re-
ceived at that date, stocks on
hand, livestock on hand, natural
increase, deaths, etc. Apart
from legal necessity, regard for
these matters protects the tax-
payer, for despite the averaging
provisions it is possible (through
reduced rebates) to pay a larger
amount of tax and contribution
if these things are allowed to
run on and thereby perhaps
greatly increase income for the
following year.
Instead of the usual last-
minute search for information
the follower of this method
merely hands his cheque-butts,
pass-book, deposit-book, ac-
count-sales and the rest to his
tax-agent. Better still, if he is
enthusiastic and possesses aver-
age commonsense, he could
easily transcribe from these
original records into analysis
books, with several columns to
facilitate the classification. There
then remains the final stages,
after the cash-book has been
reconciled with the pass-book, of
summarising and ultimately the
production of final statements
and the return.
Rust-resisters.
“He - Ne”: Celebration and
Warigo, two Durum wheats, re-
sisted stem-rust in the north-
west of N.S.W. this season.
Celebration was bred by Dr. S.
L. Macindoe, of the Department
of Agriculture, and is a double
cross by Dundee, Dundee. Jt is
a sister-line to Thatcher, the U.S.
wheat that has remained rust-
resistant for 20 years.
Warigo was bred by the Waite
Research Institute (S.A.), and is
a cross between Nabawa and
Hope. The N.S.W. department
has commenced a back-crossing
programme using Ford, Eureka
and Gabo as parents, and hopes
to gain rust-resistance from
Warigo, Celebration and Kenya
6041.
Pas mo in Linseed.
“Longjon”: A seed - borne
disease, it showed up in linseed
crops in the inaugural linseed-
crop competition conducted by
the N.S.W. Royal Agricultural
Society. Pas m o ( Sphcerella
linorum ) was hardly noticeable
in N.S.W. linseed last year, but
this year it seems to have spread
widely, even to linseed grown at
North Star, almost on the
Queensland border.
W. M. Curteis, a departmental
expert, said linseed-breeding
work was now being conducted
at Yanco Experiment Farm to
evolve a variety resistant to
pasmo. Vison, a U.S. variety, is
already resistant, and local
crosses are to be made using
Vison as a parent. Other re-
sistant varieties are to be
brought in from the U.S. and
tested for yields. Pasmo is a
highly-infectious disease, and
under conditions of high
humidity and frequent rainfall
it is capable of spreading
rapidly. It can cause severe
blighting of linseed crops.
However, the local linseed-
growing industry is too import-
ant to let fail, and, as with
wheat, maize and other crops,
the science and experience of
those engaged in fighting plant
diseases will attack the problem
—one of the multitude that beset
land production and which are
overcome as others arise.
Benzene Hexachloride.
“Beroo”; Familiar as “gam-
mexane” to many N.Q. cane-
farmers (B. 18/5/’49), it came
through the severe test of the
past spring with flying colors.
In many areas the root-eating
white grubs were worse than for
years, and losses occurred over
wide areas. Fortunately many of
the experiments of Sugar Bureau
entomologists in 1948 were on
farms where a big population of
grubs occurred, and clear-cut
results were obtained.
It was shown that 1001 b, per
acre of 10 per cent, dust would
protect a plant crop, which is all
that is usually required on the
Burdekin, where ratoons are not
normally grown, but 1501 b. gave
protection to the first and second
ratoons as well. The best time
to apply the dust is after the
young crop is established, and
subsequent scuffling will spread
it in the drill about the plants.
Farmers should be making the
application now to save their
1950 and following crops, and in
order to qualify for the subsidy
which most Cane Pest and
Disease Boards pay should make
certain that the conditions as to


id
XL
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1927.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona tides of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years .
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney,
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnemey &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: C. T. See Kee, Badolectrix Sales
and Services.
John
Buncle
Large
Two-knife
Hand
GREEN-FEED
CUTTERS
£l7
FDFD
Also small Table Model Three-
knife Green-feed Cutters.
CONCRETE
MIXERS
for hand or
power use
F
2i cub. ft £26/19/6
\i cub. ft. . . . £2l/2/6
CEMENT-BRICK-MAKING
MACHINES
will make five different-size bricks
Price from £7/15/-
The above machines are new
and available for immediate de-
livery.
There are over 300 machines to choose
from at —
GEO. HOWELL’S
Great Western Highway, Penrith.
’Phone: 100, 258 or 259.
the
AML.F
• Behind every bale of yonr
wool lie years of courageous
planning and effort.
A.M.L.&F. realise this. That’s
why they give your hard-
earned wool the same
personal care and supervision
as you would yourself, and
that’s why you can be sure of
the best possible price when
you send your clip to
86 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863. a 2S .4*
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AX MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches—N.S. IP.; Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Oowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Charleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents: McPhie & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
W-C?fc4\/
GLOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. That's why a Globlte
costs less in the long run.
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
He can non deliver
meeseq
30 HP. LANZ
Cvu/eOUTt&dm
mmmm - ■ . ;/,>•* '
LOWEST RUNNING COSTS
OF ANY TRACTOR MADE
Any Lanz or K.L. Bulldog Crude Oil Tractor
owner will tell you how easy it is to save up
to £l5O per year on low cost crude oil oper-
ation. He’ll tell you, too, that the sheer
simplicity of Bulldogs’ single cylinder slow
speed engines, with only 8 main moving parts,
drastically reduce wear and maintenance—
cut repair bills to a fraction those of compli-
cated tractor engines. So, if you area medium
power user, start enjoying the wonderful
money saving advantages of this 30 H.P.
LANZ Crude Oil Model—ready for delivery
to your property NOW.
your Local
BULLDOG Agent or:—
LANZ & K.L.
30,40 & 45h,p, Models
KL2I9
State Distributors:
N.S.W., Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney. VICTORIA
K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd.. 304 Spencer St., Melbourne. SOUTH AUS-
TRALIA, Elder, Smith & Co. Limited, 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WEST
AUSTRALIA, Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. >td., 349 William St., Perth.
TASMANIA. K. L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley,
Brisbane.
method and amount applied con-
form with their local board s
requirements.
Checking Erosion.
“Billjim”: In a recent lecture
on correct land-usage to avoid
erosion H. L. More, senior
agronomist of Victorian De-
partment of Agriculture, made
these points: In wind-erosion
areas sand-hills, if fallowed at
all, should be broken up later
in the season and worked less
frequently than heavier land. In
better-rainfall districts contour
cultivation or terracing on slop-
ing land will protect these areas
and prevent scouring on lower
lands by excessive run-off from
higher levels. In addition to re-
taining stubble, a common
counter to erosion, a cover crop
sown on fallow in the spring
and fed off before summer is a
valuable protection against wind-
erosion. In districts with an
average rainfall of not less than
22in. the clover-lea system of
farming is beneficial.
Delayed Churning.
“C.S.”: The senior Dairy
Research officer in Victoria says
that cream sometimes refuses to
churn (although chemical re-
actions are involved) because of
physical changes, brought about
by certain substances known as
“surface-active” materials which
find their way into the cream.
These substances may come
from (a) bacterial and enzyme
action on cream, ( b ) disease or
some abnormal condition of the
cow, (c) accident, (o) Certain
bacteria and enzymes can break
butter-fat down into substances
which prolong churning. ( b )
The presence of abnormal
amounts of albumen, such as
could be obtained from a sick
cow, will prolong churning.
Egg albumen (white of egg),
when added to cream at one
part to 200 parts of cream, will
prolong churning time by three
to four hours. (c) In olden
days cream was “bewitched”
when it failed to churn. This
has been attributed to washing
churns with impure water con-
taining certain plant extracts.
Recent experiments with
saponins (which are derived
from plants) showed that as
little as one in 500,000 of
saponin in cream increased
churning time to three hours.
Cows could eat plants contain-
ing substances similar to
saponin.
Cream is an emulsion, and to
convert it into butter the emul-
sion must be broken. The
breaking-up is bound up with
the movement of milk proteins.
In cream butterfat is present in
the form of very small fat glo-
bules which are dispersed
throughout the watery butter-
milk. On the numerous small
surfaces (or interfaces) where
the fat globules and the liquid
meet are to be found the milk
proteins. When cream is agi-
tated air is incorporated and
another set of surfaces is intro-
duced into the cream, viz., the
surfaces where the air bubbles
meet the liquid, called air-liquid
interfaces. When cream is nor-
mal and easily churned the milk
proteins leave the fat-liquid
interfaces and become attached
to the air-liquid interfaces. If
the milk proteins are prevented
from doing this the cream will
not churn.
The presence of substances
which can prevent the milk pro-
teins from changing their posi-
tion can thus prevent churning.
Surface-active substances like
saponins, egg albumen, etc., can
do this, and if present they vir-
tually win the race to the new
surfaces and the milk proteins
must bide their time until the
activity of these usurpers
diminishes.
Hints for the Farm.
“Cloudy”: The Jerusalem arti-
choke is a tuberous-rooted sun-
flower with a food value and
yield about the same as pota-
toes, although the taste is much
different. They will grow in
poor soil and are drought-
resistant ; but respond well to
water. No cultivation is neces-
sary, and the tubers need not be
dug until they are required,
then they only have to be
scrubbed to be used. The tops,
which may serve as windbreaks,
grow from 6ft. to Bft. tall and
bloom like sunflowers.
“Myrrhee”: I n Victoria,
November and December are
the best months to sow carrots
and parsnips. Crops from this
sowing will be usable from
February on and can be left in
the ground until the following
August. Carrots need a friable
soil with plenty of compost or
old horse-manure ; fresh manure
won’t do, it causes the roots to
fork. Plant the seed at the
bottom of a shallow drill about
2in. deep and cover with |in.
of soil. A light mulch over the
seed-rows lends protection. For
the first week or two, water fre-
quently, never allowing the bed
to dry. Thin out early, watering
before and after thinning to
settle the soil.
“Angus”: A chap in this
N.S.W. North Coast district who
set out a couple of years ago
to market-garden without first
netting his acreage nearly had
his tomato seedlings blown out
by the roots with a gust of
laughter from the wiseacres of
our rabbit-infested corner. The
laugh is on them. The lad is
coining money, no rabbits hav-
ing showed the least inclination
to duck under the barbed-wire
surrounding his garden. The
simple black magic he employs
is to spray an area 2ft. wide with
sheep-dip right round his couple
of acres.
“Sarina”: A kerosene-
saturated rag wound tightly
round a glass-jar and burned will
heat the glass and result in a
clean fracture on the jar being
lowered into cold water (B.
28 /10/’49). A friend cut a suit-
able jar in half in this fashion
to make a tail-light reflector for
his car.
“Wilco”: Method of eradicat-
ing lantana now attracting atten-
tion in N.Q. calls for the plant-
ing of Guinea-grass or Rhodes-
grass under and around the
lantana growths. After the grass
has grown and accumulated a
mass of dry matter over several
years, it is fired and the subse-
quent terrific heat scorches and
kills the lantana.
“Bill C.”: Silver-beet is a
grand vegetable, but it isn’t
immune to insect pests (B.
26/10/’49). The same cater-
pillars and grub's that riddle cab-
bages play heck with it and its
relative, red-beet, on the Queens-
land coast. We’ve lost whole
sowings because grubs ate the
seedlings when they were in the
two-leaf stage, and too small to
be efficiently dusted with lead
arsenate.


1
w
"5T
m
aPpa#?'
Ainvaa
Sil
*»
mm
SNIVJLNivn
Jim 4^t)?no|
•••
p«e
Even in your Kitchen, where hardest wear
and most consistent washings are encoun-
tered, “DULUX” gives years of fadeless,
spariding service . . . for DULUX,’ once
applied, remains to gladden your eye «=md
compliment your good taste for many years.
Choose “DULUX” in tones that are
buoyant and inspiring . . , that will har-
monise with your type of colouring and
he easier and happier to live with.
Decide now on the home of to-morrow^—use
“DULUX ’ somewkere in every room for
colour harmony and wonderful wear.
“DULUX” is easy to apply . . . dries
evenly and quicldy. It keeps fresh and
lovely with an occasional damp cloth.
For general exterior Kouse painting, use
“DULUX” Paint Type 387 Line.
HAI/M
THE SYNTHETIC FINISH
Supersedes Enamels and Varnishes
A modern kitchen is all the more
serviceable with furniture and
interior surfaces finished in
"DVLUX.”
sc
<•22*
'■NitHl
FREE BOOKLETS
These handy booklets outline very
simply the correct way to apply
"Dulux” to obtain the full benefit
of its durability and beauty. . . .
For YOUR booklets, send to
British Australian Lead Manu-
facturers Ply. Ltd., P.O. Box 21,
Concord, N.S.W.
Products of British Australian Lead
Manufacturers Pty. Ltd., Sydney,
Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth.
Golden cream
COLOUR MAG/C.FOLLOWS THE “OULUX" BRUSH
Personal and Missing Friends.
RE CHARLES LEAFE JENKINS.
ANY person knowing the whereabouts of
CHARLES LEAFE JENKINS believed
born in United Kingdom and to have re-
sided in Perth, Western Australia, about
20 years ago, is asked to communicate
with the undersigned. Such information
will be to the advantage of Charles Leafe
Jenkins.—NICHOLSON & NICHOLSON.
Solicitors, 97 St. George’s Terrace, Perth,
Western Australia.
MOSS.—WILL CYRIL MOSS, son of the
late HENRIETTA MOSS, write at once to
THE EQUITY TRUSTEES EXECUTORS
& AGENCY COMPANY LIMITED, 472
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Public Notice.
I, DIMITIROS EVANGELOU TXKPEAOU,
of Greek nationality, born at Atipos
Fiorina, Greece, and resident thirteen (la)
years in Australia, now residing at ar-
riewood Road, Warriewood, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Natio»
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Jess Bohanna. But what a
nuisance that Wilf had caught
him at it! Now she would have
to give Jess notice. Domestic
help was hard to get and Jess
was alert and willing.
MUSIC and laughter drifted
down the Hill to where
Hannah Scriaby peered upward
through her lace curtain and to
Luke Scriaby sitting in his study
doing accounts. He frowned.
How could he concentrate with
that noise going on? He felt
strangely restless, conscious
again of that inner stirring, a
thawing, a slipping of ice, an
eddy of warmer air somewhere
in his being. Against the column
of figures he saw a pink-clad
figure tripping up the hill, yellow
flowers nodding on a foolish hat,
a bright brown eye looking at
him. A common girl but quite
sensible. Unfortunate that she
should be working for the
Coxes ; bad influences there, that
roue Evan Coxe, no place for a
decent girl where he was.
“I shall take the dog for a
walk, Hannah. Come, Caesar!”
That pompous animal was un-
expectedly frisky, jumping and
pulling at the end of his leash,
anxious to set off on some course
of his own down towards the
town, resentful and defiant when
his master turned uphill.
“Come along, Caesar! Be-
have ! ” But Caesar was suddenly
gone into the night, leash and
all, tearing dpwnhill in a
delirium of freedom.
“Caesar! Caesar! Home,
boy!” It was almost midnight.
The last of the cars had long
since driven away from the Coxe
house. The Hill was quiet. Only
Mr. Scriaby’s voice, calling from
his window, disturbed the peace.
JESS, sitting on her bed in
her pyjamas while she
brushed her hair, heard a faint
rap at her door, “Who’s there?”
“It’s Evan, Jess. Open up for
a minute, girl. I want to talk to
you.”
“I’ll bet,” she said sceptically.
“You can talk to me tomorrow.”
“Fm catching the early train
for Sydney in the morning. Why
not pack up and come with me?
We could have a good time,
Jess.”
“Oh, X couldn’t!” She leant
against the door, half-tempted.
Mrs. Evan Coxe. One of the
Coxes. And she did like Evan.
He was more fun than all the
rest put together. “Do you want
to marry me?”
“If you like. It’s all the same
to me.”
“Oh, is it? Well, it isn’t all the
same to me. You go away, Evan
Coxe.”
“Please yourself, Jess. Here’s
a memento for you.” He pushed
an envelope under the door.
“No hard feelings, darling. But
don’t take Scriaby, Jess. There’re
better fish further afield. Look
me up when you come to
Sydney.”
He chuckled hoarsely through
the keyhole.
“And if you change your
mind before morning about com-
ing with me just knock at my
door. I won’t keep you standing
in the cold.” Chuckling, he went
off down the passage, a fat satyr
in a dressing-gown and with a
wonderful black eye.
Jess opened the envelope. In
it was an address and four five-
pound notes. Twenty pounds.
She stared at them. That would
make fifty pounds with what she
had in the bank. You could do
a lot with fifty pounds. She sat
on the bed and hugged her
knees, smiling. Perhaps she
would go to Sydney, but not with
Evan. Mrs. Coxe would be sure
to turn her out after the row to-
night ; and Evan was right—
there were better fish further
afield.
PEBBLES rattled against her
window. She went to it and
leant out. “Who’s there?”
Wilfrid stood looking up at
her, his face a pale blur in the
shadows. “Are you all right,
Jess?”
“Of course I’m all right,” she
said, exasperated. “I wish you’d
mine! your own business, Wilf.”
“Jess!” he whispered yearn-
ingly.
“Oh, go away and go to bed.
She slammed the window shut
and turned out the light.
< t AESAR! Caesar! Home,
' boy!” called Mr. Scriaby
in a last attempt to bring the
wanderer home. But Caesar was
busy about his own affairs and
took no notice.
AN OLD CAR
By “COL M.”
| T covers any car from an
* Ansald® to a Zeperelli, and
the story varies little: —
“Now, if you look at her from
the back she’s all her twenty-
five years—but get her from her
side here. Look at that long
bonnet: there’s power in there,
my friend. The Queen of the
Road in her day. I wouldn’t
part with her —just ground-in
her valves, and she purrs like a
kitten. Of course one of these
days when she gets a bit too
long in the tooth I’ll put a pound
of steak in her gearbox and do
her up a bit and sell her
then . .
These are the faithful, these
old car-owners. They may be
heard to falter occasionally and
pray as they drive along that
those sudden coughs under that
long bonnet are just a simple
petrol-blockage, but under fair
running their faith is strong.
They base it on their belief that
real workmanship went into a
car in those days, rarely men-
tioning that they must back up
these technicians of old by for
ever tinkering with the engine.
A word here for folk buying a
brand-new car. If ever you
should go bung on the road let
the owners of similar new cars
pass without a wave, but loudly
hail the man who drives along
in something pre-1930. He very
probably has to work on his
engine for six days to get it to
run on one ; he has undoubtedly
been called upon to diagnose
every ailment to which a car is
susceptible; he will be eager,
even to a wild zealot’s look in
his eye as he leaps out to help
you.
I had an old car, a ’26 model.
I took delivery on a Monday
and drove off on my holidays on
the Thursday, and my wife and
I had figured out that the cost f of
petrol and oil would not exceed
the train-fare, that it would be
adventure and that we would
see some fine country.
Take it from the end back.
We did see some country. River
country, mountain country, flat
acres of corn. Eight times we
were able to sit on the running-
board and look at country for
as long as it took some smiling
farmer to happen along in his
milk-wagon and tow us to the
next garage.
It was certainly an adventure.
That car always gave sporting
warning of its approach, so that
if we passed through a township
at midday whole families would
come out into their front-yards
and gaze, and small boys yelled
hysterically as they ran on ahead
to warn “Jimmy” or “Alice” to
“Come out quick and look.” We
found that the folk used to en-
joy it even better if we gave
them the royal wave.
We had our fifth breakdown
20 miles out of the town where
we planned to have tea. At six
o’clock our baby, as interpreted
by my wife, wailed the sugges-
tion that as she felt hungry
mightn’t it be an idea for mother
to get a lift, take her on ahead
and boil up the bottle for her.
She said she would accept the
odds on ever seeing her father
again.
We stopped a utility-truck,
too small to tow us, but its
driver and his wife agreed to
take the two ladies along with
them. They said that the baby
would be able to squeeze in
front with them, while my wife
would have to sit out on the
back on the platform. I noticed
that this driver had an impedi-
ment in his speech, but didn’t
put it down to anything at the
time. Then he drove off with
my child shrieking inside, my
wife gazing worriedly through
the rear window and doing a
good fifty.
At our reunion later my wife,
wind-blown, white-faced and
yet surprisingly affectionate,
told me that when a box had
fallen off the utility the driver
had had to back nearly 300
yards to pick it up, and that the
man’s wife had confided and ex-
plained that he only stuttered
while driving.
We got there eventually, and
the oil and petrol did roughly
equal the train-fare, but—oh! —
the extras! None of those
country mechanics let us out of
his clutches for under a quid.
I remember one proprietor
particularly. He said: “I’ll get
her going for you. Why don’t
you go out and have a look at
the town? Say an hour. I’ll
have her ready.”
When I came back he had
honored his promise and told
me that it had just been jet
trouble and that two bob would
cover it. But then he added
that while he’d been working on
it the back right tire had gone
flat, and he showed me a ragged
inner-tube that he said he’d
taken from it. He had put in a
new tube, so that made the bill
£1 2s. 6d.
I paid up and was slowly
backing out of the garage when
the new inner-tube he’d supplied
suddenly exploded its life away,
The smile of farewell on his
face went limp at the corners
and made way for a look of in-
tense surprise. Yes, he would
put another new tube in. Cer-
tamly, he would unwrap it from
its packet in front of me. It
wouldn’t cost a penny,
I think of the old car some-
times and wonder who’s got
hold of it, tending it, keeping
the oil up to it, boasting of the
mighty spark it throws, yet
occasionally hurling his spanner
to the ground, wiping his fore-
head with the back of an oily
hand and telling the old girl
what he really thinks of her.
Given paper and pencils, he and
I could talk for a month.


Xmas Special!
“AZUR”
620 FOLDING CAMERA
• Fast 4.5 lens
• Four-speed shutter
• 8 exposures 31 x 2\
£7/19/6
DF
Send Money Order. Immediate Despatch.
Ouneka £/vecut&f&
147 a ELIZABETH STREET, SYDNEY. MA 7837
M*|t*o«qH^o«H6c6iBo7)trrOM«i
£&
8”& 3
Pi
Cf
e
= !
g
■ =
-
CO
®SjS
s
S *• '
zr
irtmiHitrinimiiii
; - pi
m .
i
■
vX-V
' r A
.. ,
iillii
V*
Meeting
an o/c/ friend
is always a
pleasurable
occasion !
No more poor old-fashioned lighting or dirty
hot cooking. Famous Aladdin products are In
plentiful supply again for country housewives.
|. Modern Aladdin kerosene cooking ranges and
Jjl attractive kerosene lamps make country homes quite as
comfortable and clean as city bungalows. Here are the
Aladdin products you have waited for, and they're all
available for immediate deliveryl
Available from
distributors throughout
Australia
f -y
Non-Pressure Kerosene Mantle Lamps...
NON-PRESSURE WALL LAMP
Ideal for bedroom, kitchen or
hallway, the Aladdin wall lamp
is adjustable so that wide arc
of light can be thrown wherever
needed.
KEROSENE
STORMPROOF LANTERN
Wherever you go, the Aladdin
pressure kerosene lantern gives
you clear-as-day lighting. 200
candle power, safe and reliable.
The ideal outdoor lantern.
i
Ik
>*
1630
FAMILY
LAMP
VCharming design for
J lounge or dining-
room. Throws a soft,
brilliant light. Sup-
plied with attractive
hand-painted shade.
\
A
1671
NON-PRESSURE FLOOR STANDARD
Modern and elegant floor standard
provides bright light wherever you
want it. Smart shade supplied with
each lamp.
makes cooking so much easier too!
9
B
2-BURNER PORTABLE STOVE
Ideal for holiday or picnic cooking. Closes to an
easy portable size. Simple to operate, entirely safe
and reliable. Available with or without folding case.
Pressure kerosene operated.
5-BURNER PRESSURE KEROSENE RANGE
A beautifully made modern kerosene range, finished
in vitreous enamel. Cool cooking—finger-tip heat
control, four top burners and oven burner, safe and
simple to use . . . cooking is a
pleasure on this famous Aladdin
product.
F
DF
ggffigggaw
Attain
63/93.10
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy a copy of 1066 and All
That.—Alii.
To buy, in Sydney, 26,000 common
bricks.—4738.
To buy simplified handbook on
boat-building. Also plans for build-
ing a V.J.—4739.
To contact someone successfully
growing his own tobacco. —4740.
To buy copy of Bradley’s Shak-
spearean Tragedies. —4741.
Information Sought.
How to make yeast for medicinal
purposes ?
Take eight pinches of loose hops,
place in saucepan, add one quart of
water; bring to the boil and boil for
ten minutes. 'Strain hot on to 10
tablespoons brown sugar, then add
enough water to three-parts fill eight
ordinary ‘beer-bottles. Cork and tie
down tightly, and it will be ready
for use in three days.
* * * *
Who are the world boxing cham-
pions in every division? What are
the weight limits of each division ?
World boxing champions are: Fly-
weight, Rinty Monghan; bantam,
Manuel Ortiz; featherweight, Willie
Pep; lightweight, Ike Williams;
welterweight, Ray Robinson; middle-
weight, Jake La Motta; light-
heavyweight, Freddie Mills; heavy-
weight vacant since Joe Louis retired,
although American critics claim
Ezzard Charles now holds this title.
Weight limits of each division are:
Flyweight, 8st.; bantamweight, 8st.
61b.; featherweight, 9st.; lightweight,
9st. 91b.; welterweight, lOst. 71b.;
middleweight, 11st. 61b.; light-heavy-
weight, 12st. 71b.; heavyweight, all
over 12st. 71b.
* * * *
(1) Differences in properties of sea-
salt and lake-salt ? (2) Process of
refining lake-salt? (3) Conditions
of Australian Pure Foods Acts in
relation to salt?
(1) While the saline composition
of ocean-water from any part of the
world is practically the same, each
inland lake exhibits peculiarities
according to the class of country
through which the waters flow. Al-
though there is no uniformity with
regard to composition of lake-salts
there is an approximation in chemical
character to that of the open seas.
An analysis is necessary to determine
composition exactly. (2) Lake-salt,
when it compares with sea-water in
composition, does not require any
refining. The problem is not one of
refining so much as one of recovery
of the salt from the lake-water. This
is accomplished by evaporation —in
sunny places, by solar evaporation,
leaving a crust of salt which is
scraped into heaps and bagged. A
second method of evaporation is by
heating the brine in pans by means
of fuel. There is also what is known
as “the multiple vacuum evaporator
system,” which has the advantages
of being quicker, and salt obtained
is much finer in grain and very pure.
Its main disadvantages are the initial
cost and the formation of scale on
the tubes. (3) It is required in such
enactments that the salt shall be clean
and shall contain less than one-tenth
of one per cent, of matter insoluble
in hot dilute decinormal hydrochloric
acid. Metals such as antimony,
arsenic, lead and tin, or any com-
pounds of these metals, are regarded
as poisonous. The British Pharma-
copoeia gives the limits for poisonous
metals in salt as lead, 10 parts per
million; arsenic, 2 parts per million.
* * * *
(1) What are blennies? (2) What are
the peculiarities of the oyster blenny,
and does it kill oysters?
(1) A fisherman’s term for many
species of fish too small to be worth
catching. Many varieties are am-
phibious, and at low tide scramble
over moist rocks in search of food.
(2) It has a long, sabre-like tooth on
each side of the lower jaw, and is
often found coiled-up within the shell
of an oyster. Whether it actually
destroys living oysters is uncertain,
but it uses their shells as a nursery
for its young, its eggs being deposited
in a mass on their inner surface.
♦ * * *
(1) Proper time to sow gladioli seed
in N.S.W. ? (2) Best method of
handling cormlets ? (3) How to
hybridise varieties ?
(1) Autumn or spring. Sow in
sandy loam and leave the seedlings
undisturbed for at least two years.
They can then be dug, and when
planted in the third year will bear
flowers. (2) Put the corms in deep
boxes or open ground. Do not let
them flower in the first year. (3)
Pollination by bees is one method;
the other is transfer of pollen by a
camel-hair brush from one flower to
another, after which cover the blooms
with gauze.
* * * *
(1) How are small articles gold-
plated? (2) What is rolled gold?
(3) Books dealing with the subject?
(1) The object to be plated is
immersed in a solution consisting of
distilled water, one gallon; gold
chloride, 30z.; potassium cyanide,
lOoz. The positive pole of a 2-volt
d.c. supply is connected to an anode
consisting of a thin sheet of pure
gold, also placed in the solution but
separated from the article to be
plated, which is joined by a length
of wire to the negative supply pole.
The solution is kept at a temperature
of 125 deg. Fahr., and when a faint
film of gold is deposited the article
is lightly scratch-brushed to lay down
the grain. It is then immersed in
the solution until the deposit is of
the required thickness. (2) Rolled
gold is produced by applying thin
sheets of gold to a plate of alloy
and rolling down the compound
sheet. (3) The Modern Electroplater
by K. M. Coggeshall. <
Brief Answers.
J.W.W.: Stone-Age Craftsmen, a
book dealing with stone tools and
camping-places of the Australian
aborigines, by S. R. Mitchell, obtain-
able from Tait Book Cos. Pty., 349
Collins-street, Melbourne; price, 275.
6d D.M.: Ajax was by Heroic
from Medmenham; The Buzzard, by
Spion Kop from Valescure; Mani-
toba, by Manna from Berystede
1.A.: Tophet is the name give in
Kings, xxiii, 10, to a spot in the
valley of Ben Hinnom, near Jeru-
salem .... 0.C.: Lubrigan is an abo-
riginal word meaning “a rainbow.”
T.M.: It is a brass imitation of
a half-guinea of George 111. No
value K.S.: Money could not be
drawn by the children D.D.:
Areas of basins in sq. miles: Pacific,
69,986,000; Atlantic, 31,530,000; and
Indian, 28,350,000... .P.D.P.: Ver-
juice is an acid liquor expressed from
crab-apples. It is added to cider to
give greater roughness and tartness.
. ...R.8.: Wordsworth, Coleridge
and Southey comprised the “Lake
School,’’ earning the title by dwell-
ing in the English Lake country.
....Bill Fitz: Sweet William de-
teriorates greatly after second season.
Needs re-seeding H.N.: Cannot
trace an artist of that name. If you
furnish full particulars of picture we
may be able to help you T.R.:
The sample skin is not tanned. The
following quick process is used in
Europe: Soak in water and scrape
skins till soft. Tan in liquor con-
taining 101 b. salt, |lb. sulphuric acid
and ten gallons of water; time, three
days. Drain skins from tanning solu-
tion; do not wash, hang up to dry,
and, when nearly dry, stretch skins.
When well dried, skins should be
dressed with soap and oil on the
flesh side... .L.D.: An F.F.A. is a
Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries;
an F.1.A., a Fellow of the Institute
of Actuaries A.M.: The Tay
Bridge, Scotland, spans 10,000 feet.
N.C.: Automedon, son of
Dioreus, was charioteer to Achilles,
and later to Pyrrhus T. 0.: The
Mount Lyell Mine was discovered in
1883 F.D.: There is no special
flag for the case of incorrect weight.
The number of the horse which ran
first is taken from the frame and
the others are moved up a place,
so that the horse second past the
post becomes the winner, and the
fourth horse moves into the plac-
ings as third. Then, all being well,
the correct-weight flag is shown.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
O’K.K.: The best parts are like
life at its dreariest and the worst parts
are incredible N.V.: “Father”
didn’t quite come to life N.H.F.:
Cursed tfe the man who sends us
typewritten copy jambed so tight that
a microbe couldn’t push a whisker
between the lines M-H.: Ram-
shackle melodrama M.K.J.: Re-
jected MS. going back by post. We
often wonder how many weary post-
men are getting sore feet tramping
round delivering similar stuff....
T.K.: You do not call for printers
ink D.E.: The first time The
Bulletin saw that story it was about
a Chinaman and his horse. That
was way back somewhere about
the time the paper was in its
swaddling clothes... .8.C.: The first
line of the poem —“The sun went
down at ten-past-six”—is simple and
effective, even if a little too exact.
Bellerive: You got your moneys
worth then:
.... J.T.: Liked both of them a little,
but not enough... .C.W.A.: Can’t
see your climbers on top of our
columns.... J.M.8.: Most idyllic,
but who’d believe it?.... J.S.: The
talk was good, the whole 14 pages
of it, but we couldn’t make out where
it was all leading D.N.: “The
Moment” wasn’t ours M.M.; The
most important part of the detective-
story is to make the people interest-
ing... .A.G.: Dreadful doings
G.F.S.: For the present, we’ll leave
the future to George 0rwe11....
L.M.: “Wolves of Vengeance” true
to label, at any rate A.McS. :Of
course “the characters and incidents
in this story are imaginary”!
W.G.-L. (England): We thought the
crooks-double-crossing-crooks story
had been nationalised C.W.A.:
We began to think “The Watch” would
never stop N.L.R.: “Brady’s Pig”
raised neither a litter nor a titter.
T.S.: Two verses:—
Five years have passed since he was took,
They miss him down the street;
The roses bloom and fade away,
But we never hear his feet.
And as the months go by I hear
Her face is getting pale.
But she’ll be true to him they say
Till he comes home again from jail.
THE BIG FIRE SCENE.
From open trap doors
Surged big fiery flares.
Illuminating the stage
With ruddy glares.
Vivid flames did
Plash, leap and rage.
Alert were firemen
Nearby on the stage,
With hoses and water
In readiness to stay
' The chance of danger
In the thrilling play.
Stagecraft experts
And under-men did toil
In the big fire scene
At the old Theatre Koyal.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Red-tape
Food for Britain? I quote ver-
batim from a letter recently re-
ceived from a 70-year-old English-
woman returning to the land of Crippsian
austerity after visiting her son in Queens-
land. A Red Cross nurse of the Kaiser’s
war and a veteran of Bomb Alley, she
writes from Colombo —
“I had an experience at Fremantle. A
lot of people and the crew bought hams
to take home. I bought one 12? lb. Took
a taxi and got it to the ship, and then the
Customs officer would not let me take it
on. He said I must go to the Customs
office and see another official and ask him
for an export licence. He put the ham in
an office with a lot more, and off I went
to the Customs office in the broiling heat,
and it was quite a mile away. I explained
what I wanted, but the official said: ‘Sorry,
Madam, but I cannot.’ I said ‘Why?’
“ ‘Oh! ’ he said, ‘There’s been a blitz
on hams, and you will have fifty pounds
of groceries with you.’
“ ‘But I haven’t,’ I said. T have
nothing.’ He said ‘Well, you are only
allowed ten pounds of any one com-
modity.’ So I had to walk all the way
back, but not before I told
him what I thought about
such red-tape. I said he
ought to be ashamed to
look at the shops in
Fremantle so full of food,
and where I was going we
had not seen meat in a
butcher’s-shop for years.
However, the rule of 101 b.
of one commodity is there,
and that is that.
“One man had bought
his ham in Perth and had
to take it back there. I took
mine back to the shop in
Fremantle and changed it
for goods, and had to take
another taxi. There was a lot of com-
motion at the ship, but nobody got a
ham aboard, and others lost them. I
was disappointed.”
I wonder what Mr. Chifley’s Christmas
ham will weigh? When he was striking in
1917, that little old lady, widowed for
two years, was teaching during the day-
time, doing work as a bookkeeper and
dispenser at night to help relieve the man-
power shortage and nursing (unpaid) at
weekends. Singlehanded she raised two
boys through G.P.S. and one through
university, but she’s denied her Christmas
ham because it weighed 2|lb. more than
regulations permitted.— lndignant Video
(Q.).
Apathy
While agreeing in part with “Dee’s”
thoughtful and interesting thesis on
Australian irresponsibility (B. 26/10/’49),
I submit that in spite of our direct descent
from very old stock showing signs of
decadence, we are, in fact, a young race
or, more correctly, a young nation and,
as such, “approach along somewhat
happy-go-lucky lines the tasks which fie
ahead,” But I prefer terms stronger
than happy-go-lucky.
With nations as with people, the essen-
tial difference between youth and age
is not so much in the body as in the mind,
and Australians are much too juvenile in
their thjnking, particularly their national
thinking, for their own good. Therein
lies the distincton between the Australan
and American mental outlook.
Like Australia, America is (to use a
cliche “Dee” dislikes) “a young country,”
but whereas Americans have tempered
their young nationhood with old culture
and old traditions, Australians have not.
Thoughtlessly, Australians are too ready
to sneer at, or even hold in contempt,
those very things—history, economics,
philosophy, art, politics, manners—on
which a virile and dominant race is built.
As a nation we have always refused
seriously to consider either the past or
the future; living, like wagging school-
boys, for the day; and have steadfastly
declined as individual citizens to accept
the moral obligations of nationhood. W 7 e
are too anxious to shift the onus of
national responsibility to shoulders other
than our own.
It is not.important that Australia itself
is “an old, old continent”; the grave
error in the Australian way of life is
that we are a conceited young race in-
different to our opportunities and
resources, careless of our national
behavior, apathetic towards mal- and
overgovernment and inordinately proud
of our country, the gross exploitation of
which seems to have left three genera-
tions of us unmoved.
No involved or elaborate plan or policy
is needed to raise us to a civic or
patriotic par with, say, Sweden, Switzer-
land or Holland. We shall continue to
dawdle aimlessly along the garden path
unless we collectively grow up and live—
maturely, conscientiously and nationally.
And December 10 wouldn’t be a bad day
to begin. We must think for ourselves,
ignore the party and the machine and
return to Parliament that man within our
electorate whose reputation, acts and
utterances indicate a determination to
lead the way out of the fool’s paradise of
post-war socialistic maladministration. —
P. O. MacCabe (3 Augusta-street, Con-
cord, N.S.W.).
“The Lonely Road”
“West Riding” (B. 2/11/ ’49) pleads
eloquently for homes for the aged and
indigent, but his appeal is not likely to
succeed when even the children of the
poor turn deaf ears to the crying need of
their parents.
Time was when offspring considered
it their duty and privilege to provide a
comfortable corner for the old folks dur-
ing their declining years, but the tendency
“He drank my hair-Wave lotion, doctor."
today is to leave that responsibility to the
Pension Department or to charitable insti-
tutions. A common excuse is that the
basic-wage rate provides only for a wife
and kids and leaves no margin for Mum
and Dad. But even when the income is
large other excuses are easy to find,
C. J. Dennis was so horrified with the
trend that he exposed it in the most
sarcastic rhyme he ever wrote. “Paw” is
the soliloquy of the daughter of poor
parents who has climbed the social ladder
and is snobbishly ashamed and neglectful
of the Paw and Maw who sacrificed
everything for her education and advance-
ment. The last two fines caustically
express the sentiments of too many of
the present generation—
Paw was good to us when we were young;
that you’ll allow.
It’s really taime the Goyahment did some-
thing foah him now.
Elimination of the means-test would
nothelp the destitute or thriftless. It
would only enrich the comfortably-off or
affluent. But a revision of one; of the
clauses would remove a shocking injustice
now imposed on thousands of thrifty and
deserving, citizens. At present an aged
“person” who has acquired a home of his
own is allowed to occupy it and still enjoy
the ■ pension, while the equally deserving
person who has only a bank balance is
compelled to spend it before he can claim
the pittance.
It would be only logical and fair to
allow him to retain a sum equivalent to
the value of a house and furniture, parti-
cularly at a time when it is practically
impossible to buy or build a house even
when the cash is available. — Paw (S.A.).
Security
Preoccupation with personal security
is the curse of this century. Though
almost world-wide, it is hardest to excuse
in a country such as ours, where the
pioneering tradition still lives. It may
be due to the shattering effect of two
world wars on what seemed, 40 years ago,
to be a fundamentally stable social and
economic order. Perhaps unthinking
minds have always yearned for security
at times of crisis, but had to wait for the
coming of Parliamentary democracy to
give full expression to their desire.
But consider the animals on a farm.
All they have to do is perform their
allotted duties to the satisfaction of the
farmer. In return their needs are pro-
vided for, in the shape of food, water,
shelter, rest and veterinary care, the
farmer being sole judge of what they
need of these things. They do not have
to think about their future; all that is
done for them. On the other hand, they
are not free to go where they will, except
within the limits of a fenced paddock.
They may be sold at any time, taken from
their associates and familiar surroundings
and placed on another farm. When they
are no longer useful to their owner they
are either destroyed or fattened and sold
to the butcher. Their young may be taken
from them at birth and killed or brought
up separately. In a drought the farmer
handfeeds those he regards as worth the
added work and expense; kills and skins
the others. They enjoy security such as
no human society has ever known, a
security that is the ultimate and logical
development of Socialism. But what
human really wants security at such a
price?
Security is for the very young, very
old or very sick, and the emphasis is on
“very.” Shaw is 94, but he certainly
wouldn’t barter freedom for security,
however much he may urge.it on others.
Helen Keller is blind and deaf, but she
has not surrendered her freedom, to be-
come totally dependent on anyone. It
is the adult men and women, with minds
either immature or prematurely senile,
who shrink in fear from the self-reliance
that should be their pride, to throw them-
selves in security and utter serfdom on
the mercy of the all-powerful State. —
B. Cameron, The Cedars, Biddeston (Q.).
Corrugated-iron
About 15 months ago we decided to
try our luck in the country. We obtained
suitable employment, and until we could
build ourselves a cottage took up resi-
dence in a barn. We put in an order
for corrugated-iron and a tank and waited
our turn. In the meantime winter came.
The barn leaked, in fact it ran rivulets
all over the floor; the wind blew a gale
through the gaps between the wooden
slabs of the wall. The rats ravaged our
furniture, and the dampness completed
their job.
We shared the barn with the super-
phosphate, feed, saddles, etc., and other
smelly commodities. We have two very
small children who played all winter on
the concrete floor without benefit of a
fireplace,
Every month we inquired about our
iron, and every month we were informed
it was getting nearer. People about us
who “knew someone” got iron. Others
we knew down-town who “knew some-
one” got iron. Others built garages, and
others made fortunes building houses in
a hurry and selling them at good prices
to moneyed imniigrants—they all got iron.
We continued in our sorry plight; I
wondered just what my husband had been
fighting for.
In desperation I wrote direct to the
Melbourne firm to whom the local store
had passed on our order. I also wrote
direct to the Directorate of Procurement
and explained our predicament. Result:
By return mail we received word that two
small lots of our iron had been
forwarded many weeks previously ; the
rest they were putting immediately on the
train, and they regretted we would have
to wait two weeks before they could
dispatch the tank.
We immediately inquired locally as to
the whereabouts of our early deliveries,
and were informed it had “just come to
hand’’ having been lost somewhere in
transit. I wonder. The rest, together with
the tank, will be landed here this week. —
Cass (Vic.).
Pageantry
Take 50 floats representing scenes from
fairy-tales and folklore. Add hundreds
of amateur actors costumed as clowns,
robbers, princesses and cavaliers. Flavor
with a dozen assorted bands. Top off with
a real live Daddy Christmas complete
with a realistic team of reindeer.
Decorate with dressing of all colors of
the rainbow. Roll out into a long pro-
cession, and serve to a cheering crowd
of 200,000 people of all ages and every
social condition.
The recipe has been used annually in
Adelaide for many years, and is always
acclaimed a dainty dish to set before King
Demos. It is only an advertising stunt
for a big store, but it is also service with
a smile a mile long, and has come to be
accepted as the most popular and enter-
taining event of the year in the City of
Culture. .
Do we really need a National Theatre
to hold up the mirror to nature or tickle
the ears of the groundlings? If one shop-
keeper can turn the whole city into a
stage and attract the entire community to
admire and applaud without benefit of
subsidy or box-office, how much more
could be achieved with the co-operation
of many stage-struck citizens!
Many of our new migrants will re-
member the annual Kinderspiels of their
native villages in Britain and Europe.
The casts of the children’s plays Were re-
cruited from the juvenile talent of the
district, and trained by choirmasters and
teachers of all the arts. The scenery,
dressing and props were provided by
voluntary effort. The Kinderspiels en-
couraged latent musical, histrionic and
terpsichorean genius in the young and
were an aesthetic education for the adults.
It could happen here, not only in the
small townships, but on a much more
ambitious scale in the largest cities.—
Migrant (S.A.).
Railways
The N.S.W. Railway Department has
recently put on a series of very fine
country trains. They’re excellent jobs,
very comfortable, air-conditioned and as
fast as conditions permit. Most people
who travel by rail have been extremely
appreciative of them, but not Una Auld
(B. 26/10/’49). She growls that the
money should have been spent on trucks.
Now with a reasoned and reasonable
criticism of that kind I could not agree
more, but this criticism is unfair, un-
reasonable, carping and destructive.
When the war ended, the most pressing
need in the sphere of transport was for
more rail trucks with their accompanying
rails and locomotives, and ships. We did
not need, to mention only some items,
an Australian motor-car, a vast and
fabulously costly air-transport organisa-
tion or more and better scenic roads.
Those things are very desirable but
not essential to our wellbeing in the sense
that those rail and sea facilities were
and are. We’ve spent money and effort,
lots of both, on those things without any
hint of criticism from Una Auld or
anyone else. Why then cavil at the
action of the Railway Commissioner in
providing decent passenger services?
Even if he is starting to emulate his
competitors and concentrate on the best,
most profitable or most publicised por-
tion of the traffic, why single him out
out for criticism?
In actual fact, the position revealed
by figures to which every citizen has
access makes the entire complaint ground-
less. In the financial year 1947-48, the
last for Which I have complete informa-
tion, the N.S.W.G.R. took delivery of
no fewer than 1585 wagons of various
kinds and eight passenger carriages.
Orders outstanding included nearly 8000
wagons and 240 carriages, including
electric and rail-motor units.
You could hardly say that those
figures show any bias towards the pas-
senger at the expense of the more essen-
tial freight. Moreover, those orders are
spread over every possible contract in
Australia, England and Germany (where
a large order has recently been placed).
What more could be done to speed up
rehabilitation it would be very interesting
to hear.
As for the contributor’s final comment,
the reference to the virtues of “private-
enterprise transport” and what it could
do if allowed —well, it would be interest-
ing to have the views of those wheat-
growers who had to use it to shift their
harvest a year or so ago and paid three
times as much for the privilege,—Trans-
porticus (Singapore),


Away from the conventional dignity of
his orchestra pit Vaughan possesses that,
indefinable attitude of face and figure
which raises a laugh just to look at it
—in his tango dance with a dummy you’d
bet your bowler was real he raises a
storm. The pseudo females gyrate gor-
geously, with Hunter as beauteous as
ever, and their dressing the audible envy
of the female audience. One of the
main charms of this soldier-show, when
the male chorus comes on in uniform, is
the reminder that the turns have been
played in the war-time desert, in Syria
and Greece and Crete, by men who have
had their share of front-line service.
It is unfortunate that such undeniable
talent should be largely wasted and
versatility restricted by triplicated acts
which differ only in dialogue.
TALKIES
"Treasure of Sierra Madre."
As a consistently good performer in
roles small or large Walter Huston would
take a lot of beating. He is endowed with
particularly expressive mouth and eyes—
never used to better advantage than when
he played Mr. Scratch, alias Mephisto-
pheles, in “All That Money Can Buy,”
the film version of the Stephen Vincent
Benet story “The Devil and Daniel
Webster” —and over the years has turned
in a string of excellent and entertaining
performances ranging from heavy
character to the lightest of comedy.
His latest performance, as an old
prospector in the Warner Brothers’
“Treasure of Sierra Madre,” at Sydney
Plaza, is not quite as brilliant as his Mr.
Scratch, but worth the Academy Award
he got for it. Broke, having made
and lost fortunes from Alaska to Aus-
tralia, he is camped in a dosshouse in a
Mexican village and dispensing philo-
sophy and knowledge about gold and the
men who chase it. Two hefty down-and-
outs among his audience (Humphrey
Bogart and Tim Holt) are sufficiently im-
pressed to enlist the old chap’s guidance
and assistance on a prospecting expedi-
tion —after they have beaten the ears off
a contractor in a spectacular bar-room
brawl to collect a few hundred dollars
owing to them.
With the expedition under way Huston
settles down to filling out the character.
The main worry of his companions has
been the fear that the older man would
not stand up to the rigors of driving into
the barren, inhospitable mountains. The
garrulous old fellow of the dosshouse,
however, develops into something like a
dried-out old mountain goat with every
trick of the game at his fingertips, includ-
ing a hawk-like observation and summing-
up of the moods and manners of his com-
panions when they finally discover gold,
a discovery which, * incidentally, gives
Huston the opportunity to display a
beautifully comic but completely convinc-
ing dance of excitement in the auriferous
dust.
Up to this stage of the film Huston, by
the excellence of his acting, carries the
weight of the show, and carries it con-
vincingly—with the aid of very good
direction that holds the story on its dusty,
sweaty note, and equally good photo-
graphy that makes the most of the
savagely rugged surroundings. With the
discovery of gold, however, the story
turns —as it has every indication of doing
from the start —to displaying the effect
of the yellow metal on the three men.
Since Bogart is the one most affected the
load of acting shifts to his shoulders.
Bogart established himself in films
apparently by his ability to display no
emotion whatsoever. Somehow or other,
in such films as “Petrified Forest” and
“Dead End,” he managed, with thin, bleak,
expressionless features, to convey an
extraordinary impression of cold ferocity.
Like most of the screen’s villains, how-
ever, he graduated to other things, and has
since been as remarkably unsuccessful in
displaying emotions as he was successful
in displaying a lack of it. In this
“Treasure of Sierra Madre” the character
he portrays slowly goes insane with greed
for gold and mistrust of his companions,
and finally goes completely off his rocker,
mumbling and shouting to himself and
the world at large and trying to get back
to civilisation with a fortune after run-
ning out on one partner and attempting
to murder the other.
It is very difficult to make such roles
other than uncomfortably melodramatic,
and Bogart never quite manages to put it
across —he would have done better to
have played it in his old emotionless
manner. Still, one doubtful compensation
for Bogart’s exaggerated histrionics is that
they tend to throw into relief the quiet,
steady performances of Tim Holt and
Bruce Bennett, the latter as another
prospector who tries to beg, buy or black-
mail his way into the partnership.
Another excellent group of actors in
the film are the Mexicans or Mexican
Indians whose peculiar, passive beauty is
too-seldom used by Hollywood. Parti-
cularly good, though not for any beauty,
is Alfonso Bedoya’s sly and scrubby
leader of the bandit mob which besieges
the prospectors. His immense cheerful-
ness and gusto have just the right note of
falsity with an underlying hint of animal
cruelty to make it perfect.
“Saraband” (Ealing production ;
Sydney Embassy): Film of Helen
Simpson’s novel, Saraband for Dead
Lovers, about the love-affair between.
Princess Spphie-Dorothea of Hanover and
Count Konigsmark, an incident for which
the lady’s husband, Prince George Louis,
later George I of England, imprisoned her
for life. A good deal of the novel’s
quality is retained; the German setting
is beautifully represented in color;
Franfoise Rosay (Electress Sophia), Flora
Robson (Countess Platen) and Peter Bull
(the Prince) turn in excellent perform-
ances ; but Stewart Granger and Joan
Greenwood in the main roles haven’t
sufficient depth to lift the story from
romance to convincing tragedy.
* * * ♦
“Any Number Can Play” (M.-G.-M.;
Sydney St. James); Clark Gable as the
high-minded proprietor of a gambling
joint. He justifies himself on the grounds
that his place is as honest as gambling
can be and that, anyway, as half the
American population gambles, he is only
providing what the customer wants, and
providing it a lot better than many others
would if they had the chance. Unfor-
tunately for Mr. Gable his wife doesn't
like being home alone at nights, and his
son resents his father’s way of making a
living. The conflict is solved by Mr.
Gable developing a bad heart, so that
he has to give up excitement anyway, by
the son discovering the extraordinarily
high esteem in which his father is held by
everyone who loses money to him, and
witnessing the old man stake his fortune
on the throw of the dice without batting
an eyelid; and, finally, by Mr. Gable
giving his business to his loving, trusted
and faithful employees and going off fish-
ing for the rest of his life or something.
Not quite as grim as it sounds —Metro
dresses this kind of fare out pretty well,
and has sufficient supporting players like
Lewis Stone, Mary Astor, Marjorie
Rambeau, the late Frank Morgan and
Wendell Corey to carry things along with-
out any apparent effort.
* * * *
“The Great Sinner” (M.-G.-M.; Sydney
Liberty): Russian author Gregory Peck
sets out to win a fortune gambling to save
Ava Gardner’s poppa from the clutches
of a gambler. In some rather exciting
gambling he wins, loses and is bound for
perdition, but is rescued in the nick of
time by some highly phony spiritual stuff.
Walter Huston and Ethel Barrymore have
their moments.
Sydney Orchestra.
Eugene Goossens used a well-judged
mixture of urbanity, subtlety and vigor
in his piloting of the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra in its final subscription concert
of the year through a programme in
which romanticism always had the edge
on classicism,
He opened with Richard Strauss’s
“Don Juan,” the hero of which spends
his life in search of the one perfect woman
so that in her he may enjoy the countless
varieties it would be impossible to sample
individually. Woodwinds and strings
combined to fine effect in the tempestu-
ous passages, and true poignancy was
achieved in the closing pages, when dis-
illusionment at last descends on the
gentleman.
Ernest Llewellyn gave a sound and
forthright performance of the Brahms
Violin Concerto. His tone was scarcely
adequate in the savage first movement,
but in the pastoral serenity of the adagio
he revealed not only a full and rich tone
but a technique admirable in its facility,
The final movement, with its rhythmic
vigor’ so redolent of the Hungarian folk-
song, was happily co-ordinated.
The concluding work was that Second
Symphony by Rachmaninoff from which
the composer slashed over 20 minutes,
very wisely, from his original concept,
The forward surge of the second move-
ment scherzo was a highlight, and the
work by the oboes, the four solo horns,
the clarinet, the ’cellos and basses in the
introductory phases were all of particu-
larly high quality in a reading that was
always incisive and clear-cut.
Melbourne Music.
There is a vague suspicion that the well
of musical appreciation in Melbourne
isn’t bottomless like the Blue Lake at
Mount Gambler. In fact, it hardly pro-
duced a bucketful to water the proceed-
ings at the fifth of the series of six extra
orchestral concerts sponsored by the
A.B.C. at the Town Hall. Yet Bernard
Heinze was in the rostrum, and the Vic-
torian Symphony Orchestra was there
with all its talent and playing as well
as ever, if not better, and the soloist was
Margaret Schofield, who is a pianist of
some distinction with a high overseas
reputation. *
The programme was as good as any,
beginning with the lively Variations on a’
Theme of Frank Bridge by Benjamim
Britten, passing to the fifth symphony of
Schubert and ending with two exquisite
tone-poems by Sibelius, “The Swan of
Tuonela” and “The Return of Lemmin-
kainen,” while the soloist was presented
in Delius’s Pianoforte Concerto in C
Minor. Possibly from a nervous desire
to fill the spaces in the hall left empty
by absent A.B.C. subscribers, the orchestra
let itself go in this piece, and Miss
Schofield only got through with difficulty,
though she provided some passages of
great delicacy and beauty in the largo.
Musica Viva.
The ninth of the subscription concerts
given at Sydney Con. followed the pattern
of most of those which preceded it in
this year’s series in which the Musica
Viva Society is giving the complete
Beethoven quartet cycle: two of the
quartets in contrasting style, with an
example of another composer’s chamber
work in which the piano is featured—in
this case the Mendelssohn Trio in D
Minor, Op. 49.
The four players (Robert Pikler,
Edward Cockman, Richard Goldner and
Theo Salzman) integrated the early
Beethoven Quartet, Op. 18, No. 5,Jn a
manner which had about it a flavor of
the higher mathematics rather than high
art.
It was in the fine Quartet in E Flat
Major, Op. 127, that the four players
not only achieved admirable integration,
but succeeded in getting right to the
core of mysticism around which the
opening maestoso allegro is built, moving
on then to squeeze from the glorious slow
movement the very .essence of the can-
tabile art. An engaging buoyancy marked
the scherzando and finale.
* * * *
Three women, Kathie Reed, Norma
Dickason and Wenda Sicree, wasted some
good acting on “The Old Ladies,” by
Rodney Ackland and Hugh Walpole, put
on by the National Theatre in Mel-
bourne. The play posits an interesting
situation, or a situation that could be
interesting, given some degree of penetra-
tion into the springs of human action by
the playwrights. Three old women
occupy separate apartments in an old
house, and one of them is simple and
neurotic, one is kindly and complacent
and one is sinister and gipsy-minded. The
gipsy-minded one, for no apparent rea-
son, sets to work to frighten to death the
neurotic female, while the kindly one
looks on hypnotised and helpless. The
first act offers some hope that Mr. Wal-
pole is going to show us something. In
the second act Mb. Walpole’s intention
rears its ugly head and we know we are
in for a circumstantial thriller. Which
we are.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 45
Across.
I—Hypocritical kiss with a con-
temptuous sound by a Scot. (12)
6—Layer. (3)
B—Equip Miss Reeve with weapons
of navy. (6)
10—Power of the films in Ireland. (6)
12— Fish upset a Confederate general.
(3)
13 — Thus knowledge is a district for
which services are given in ex-
change for the tenancy. (5)
14— Look after the steamer kiss. (6)
16 — Wheedle. (6)
17— Stop working an innings beside
half of the cricket-ground. (5, 3)
20— Ancient musical instrument of a
registrar. (8)
21— A couple of tailless opponents
of a matador getting the bird. (6)
23 —Begone with a skite! (6)
25 Cayenne river of England runs
backward when attacked with the
crook of the leg. (5)
26 She’s never without a buck —
and even sounds like money. (3)
29 — The proprietors worsen badly. (6)
30— Twaddle about automobiles being
edible. (6)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
31— Communist. (3)
32 — Put a lump on the back of 10
across and suddenly drop 10
across for a fellow ruined beyond
repair. (6, 6)
Down.
1— Make the long passageway shiny
source of many a “shine” in
Europe. (6, 8)
2 The hum-dinger order to punch
a knave. (10)
3 Where was Mussolini’s heart (if
any)? (6)
4 One by the steamer in the gulf.
(5)
5 Mo about the direction. (4)
6 Cultivator. (3)
7 Lordly flounder changed a his-
toric favorite of London theatre-
goers. (4, 2,3, 5)
9—Fisher after 1000 for the mincer.
(7)
11 —Eccentric starter? (5)
15 —Twins’ apex to play two notes
on the fiddle at once. (6, 3)
18 — Pitcher sets 100 against a famous
Finn turning about. (7)
19 — Argue against a rising potato. (5)
22 —Yet Sam can be muggy. (6)
24— dbjets d’art are not quite the
possession of a woman whose
price is above rubies. (5)
27 — Unpaid duck married. (4)
28— Finish. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 44.


EVERY
Labor Candidate
IS A SOCIALIST
CANDIDATE!
“SOCIALISATION” means complete control of your life and affairs, of your work,
your business and your savings by Government officials.
“Socialisation” means that every worker has to work where the Government tells him to work.
“Socialisation” means that your children’s future will be decided by the Government. ~.and that
every family will be made dependent upon the Government.
Most of tHe people who voted for Labor candidates at the last elections did not realise that they
were voting for a Government which was secretly planning to socialise Australia. They weren’t
told anything about it. They were deceived into believing that Labor Government and Socialism
were two different things. They are not. THEY ARE ONE AND THE SAME THING.
THE LIBERAL PARTY STANDS FOR THE VERY THINGS—THE DECENT THINGS—WHICH THE LABOR
GOVERNMENT PRETENDED TO STAND FOR AT THE LAST ELECTIONS BUT OYER WHICH IT HAS FAILED YOU;
■ tt' ■£. #
• INCREASING PAY AND REASONABLE LIVING COSTS
• INCENTIVE PAYMENTS FOR INCREASED PRODUCTION
• RANK-AND-FILE CONTROL OF THE TRADE UNIONS
THROUGH THE SECRET BALLOT
O the outlawing of communism
Every LIBERAL Candidate is pledged to fight Socialisation
FL6OA-49.
Authorised by D. M. Cleland, 30 Ash St., Sydney.
