

CHATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
&vg
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 70—No. 3628
Wednesday, August 24, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ENGLAND’S CENTRE OF RAW-SILK PRODUCTION IS LULLINGSTONE CASTLE
LULLINGSTONE Castle, at Eynsford, in the Darenth
Valley, Kent, has been the home of the Hart Dykes for
over three hundred years. In 1932 Zoe, Lady Hart Dyke,
established a silk-worm farm at the castle which is now the
largest in Britain, and most of the rooms are devoted to the
production of silk. Over fifty persons are employed in the
mulberry plantations during the silk-worm season of June
and July. The aim and object of the farm is to develop and
assist the production of raw silk in Britain and the Common-
wealth, and here may be seen from ist April until 30th
September each year all the various stages of raw-silk pro-
duction from the silk-worm eggs to the hanks of silk ready
for dispatch to the throwsters and weavers.
It was from this Kentish castle that the silk for the
Royal Family’s coronation robes was supplied and which,
more recently, contributed the silk for Princess Elizabeth’s
wedding gown. For the latter twenty pounds of raw silk
from about 34,000 cocSons were sent* to the royal weavers.


Learn
Journalism
nt HOW
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name .
My Address
S.B. 149
AGE
The Red Page
PORTRAIT OF GREEN WAY.
A fascinating portrait of the convict
architect who built the Hyde Park Bar-
racks, the original South Head light-
house, St. James’s Church and the Con-
servatorium in Sydney emerges from M.
H. Ellis’s Francis Greenway (Shepherd
Press). The extraordinary thing about
Greenway is that what got him sent out
to Australia was not a love of crime but
a passionate though misguided respect for
justice.
Today, though we might still have to
find him guilty of forgery, it is extremely
unlikely that we would send him to jail.
A puzzled and mildly reproving Judge
would probably put him on a bond, for a
year. And Greenway, being what he was,
would thank the court with profound
humility, deliver a tirade on the merits
of his case and himself, and go out and
get himself into more trouble.
What had happened was this. He had
gone barwrupt, and amongst his debtors
was a certain Colonel Doolan for whom
Greenway had built a house for a price
of 1300 guineas. This sum the Colonel
paid ; but Greenway said that the Colonel
had also agreed to pay him a further
£250 and that, on a copy of the contract
drawn by a solicitor named Cooke, there
was a memorandum to this effect.
Colonel Doolan knew nothing of any
extra £250; Mr. Cooke knew nothing,
so he said, of any such memorandum; it
was not written on his copy of the con-
tract. Greenway, whom one can only
suppose to have been ardently of the
opinion that he was being done in the
eye, advertised for the copy with the
memorandum, presuming that it had gone
missing.
And after a while the original copy of
the contract turned up—it was delivered
to him, said Greenway, by a person un-
known. And on it was clearly written
the memorandum about the £250, sup-
posedly in Mr. Cooke’s handwriting. Un-
fortunately, the court found that the
handwriting was not Mr. Cooke’s but
Greenway’s imitation of it; and the
architect, who dejectedly pleaded guilty,
was sentenced to death for forgery; a
penalty afterwards commuted to trans-
portation to New South Wales for 14
years*
Now, this was not a common forgery
but a highly uncommon one, for Green-
way would not himself have received a
penny of the £250; it was a forgery on
behalf of his creditors ; and even as far
is they were concerned a gratuitous piece
of generosity, for they had given him a
certificate releasing him from further
1 ability:
The Press found it difficult to trace the
motive for his proceedings It seemed
“perfect insanity to counterfeit the sig-
nature of Mr. Cooke, the subscribing wit-
ness, since any man in his senses might
have expected that it would be detected the
moment the creditors began to enforce the
covenants of the deed.”
But, reading the details of Greenway’s
subsequent career in Australia, which was
conspicuous not so much for charity as
for (a) his architecture, {b) his incessant
quarrels and (c) his extravagant claims on
Macquarie and his successors for money
allegedly due to him as commission on
the Government bhildings he had erected,
one can hardly suspect Greenway of
trying to 'get himself hanged merely for
the benefit of his creditors. Nor, as Mr.
Ellis begins to demonstrate the purely
imaginary basis for Greenway’s claims on
Macquarie, can one quite believe that
Colonel Doolan ever promised to pay
Greenway that extra £250 or that the
solicitor ever made a memorandum about
it on the contract.
One comes to the conclusion, simply,
that Greenway was a little mad. He
had, perhaps, something like delusions of
grandeur. His fantasies became inextric-
ably entangled with reality. He had the
highest possible opinion of his merits as
an architect—seeing himself, as Mr.
Ellis points out, as a kind of earthly vice-
regent for “the Grand Architect of the
Universe.” And he had the feeling that
nobody ever paid him, in money or in
admiration, all that was due to him.
Possibly Colonel Doolan did promise
him the £250 ; but nobody except Colonel
Doolan, Mr. Cooke and Greenway ever
knew the truth about that. More likely,
Greenway told Colonel Doolan that he
thought he ought to be paid the extra
money for his great work ; more likely
still the unfortunate architect simply told
himself, in the privacy of his own excited
and admiring mind, that he ought to be
paid the money . . . and, step by step,
built up the fantasy that led him to
commit the forgery—a furious attempt
to prove to a hostile world the justice
of his claims.
Mr.. Ellis attributes Green way’s aberra-
tions to his ‘‘artistic temperament” ; and,
provided it is understood that artists do
not have to be forgers or eccentrics, and
that the greatest have not been, the theory
seems to be as near as we are likely to
get to the truth without employing the
jargon of psychoanalysis. In his pug-
nacity Greenway reminds us sometimes
of Hazlitt; still more, in his impassioned
vanity and his rage and despair at the
world’s failure to do him justice, he is
like the painter Haydon, who, running
deeper than Greenway, ended by cutting
his throat. A proud, intractable man,
born to be his own victim and to think
himself the world’s, Greenway resembles,
too, certain tragic and unforgettable
characters in fiction: Richard Mahony
in his obstinate progress towards de-
struction, and Trollope’s tremendous Mr.
Crawley.
Because of this element of tragedy in
Greenway Mr. Ellis is able to imbue
with life the stones of Sydney—and of
Windsor and Parramatta—more vividly
than has been done in any other book
the present reviewer can recall; more
viyidly even than in Mr. Ellis’s own
Lachlan Macquarie, far greater in scope
than Francis Greenway though that
volume is. In the task of recreating old
Sydney, which he performs brilliantly,
Mr. Ellis is helped, *of course, by the
fact that it was Greenway who designed
so many of the buildings and, sometimes
prompting Macquarie (but more often,
Mr. Ellis thinks, prompted by that ener-
getic administrator), talked, wrote and
dreamed of designing so many more; a
whole dream-city, in fact.
But it is the association with Green-
way’s own personal tragedy that will
make, for the reader of this book, the
Hyde Park Barracks, for example, or the
South Head lighthouse (the present
structure is a replica of Greenway’s lovely
original) glow with fresh life not merely
as specimens of Greenway’s architecture
but as a kind of embodiment of the
disasters he' brought upon himself; as if
the man himself were present in the
blocks of stone. For it was on the com-
pletion of the South Head lighthouse that
Greenway won from the kindly Mac-
quarie his first, conditional, pardon ; and
it was on the completion of the Bar-
racks—a building where less fortunate
convicts were to be shut up for the night
—that Greenway’s full pardon was
granted.
And looking at any of his buildings,
even if, like St. James’s church, they do
not represent any’ decisive episode in his
career or embody more than Greenway’s
usual vehement disputes with inefficient
workmen (whom he never seems to have
supervised' properly) and with rival
builders jealous of his fame and scornful
of his arches, the tragedy of his life, after
reading this book, will still spring to
mind . . . the wretched situation, for ex-
ample, in which Greenway found him-
self when, after what sepms a fantastic
quarrel about Masonic aprons which the
architect was to make for a ceremony at
the laying of the foundation-stone for
Captain Piper’s mansion, Captain San-
derson, the Worshipful Master, fell upon
him with a horsewhip and Greenway, be-
ing a convict, could not retaliate:
He took hold of a riding-whip, almost
as big as Mr. Greenway, and cut his visitor
several times around the legs. Mr. Green-
way sought to seize the whip. He cried
out; “Captain Sanderson! Sir! Recollect!
Consider the situation in which I am
placed 1 dare not run the risk of
resisting, were I able. You know how I
am circumstanced!” Captain Sanderson’s
powerful athletic form became contorted
with rage. He let go Mr. Greenway’s
cravat, struck that gentleman a “straight-
forward left” in the face. Then he swung
his right fist, which held the whip, and
caught Mr. Greenway on the ear. Mr.
Greenway struggled as never an architect
did before, while Captain Sanderson laid
on with a will until he became exhausted
with rage and passion and with the violence
of Mr. Greenway’s wriggling. Then, call-
ing Mr. Greenway “many epithets and
names,” inchMng damned scoundrel and
swindler, he pushed him out of the room,
striking him as he went.
One paid, in those days, a bitter penalty
for having, in a moment’s frenzied
demand for justice, forged the signature
of a Mr. Cooke. But Greenway was too
ebullient a character to be wholly tragic.
For the most part, and justifiably, Mr.
Ellis is able to present him as somewhat
comical. Almost immediately on the
architect’s arrival in Sydney Macquarie
took him under his protection, and, so
sublimely indifferent was he to his official
status as a felon, we find him instantly
writing to the Governor, on being asked
to copy from a book a drawing which
his Excellency thought suitable for a
town hall and courthouse:
I will immediately Copy the Drawing
‘™ l ' Excellency requested me to do, not-
withstanding it is rather painful to my mind
a P ro^essiona l man to Copy a Building
that has no Claim to Classical proportion
or Character.... “Materials in Architecture
are like words in Phrasiology having
separately but little power, and they may
be so arranged as to excite ridicule, dis-
°, r .,? ven con tempt; yet when combined
with skill expressed with energy, they actuate
the mind with unbounded sway.”
And in that spirit, combining skill with
intermittent fits of energy, and actuating
the rum-sodden or crudely commercial
mind of Sydney with the unbounded sway
of his own, Greenway endured or ignored
his term as a convict. He was sustained
by the kindliness of Macquarie ; by the
apparent serenity of his domestic life with
his vyife and family; by the pride of a
genuine artist; and by the sway—not to
say the wobble—of his unbounded
egotism.
Even at the end, when Macquarie has
departed and his enemies and his own
faults of arrogance and impatience have
brought him low—when in order to prove
his claims to the house and land he was
occupying and to £11,232 of percentages
on public buildings (which Macquarie had
obviously not promised him) he again
appears to have turned to forgery—the
element of comedy persists. Indomitable
to the last, incurably wrongheaded, he
asserted that he had in his possession a
letter from Captain Gill, Macquarie’s
acting-engineer, proving his case; for-
tunately he did not produce this docu-
ment, which might well have plunged him
into a repetition of his former disaster.
So, then, he steps out of the pages of
Francis Greenway ; a little, plump,
voluble and quarrelsome man with
reddish hair and brown eyes, not criminal
but unbalanced, partly tragic and partly
comic, who made himself memorable in
stone and brick and who is also memor-
able for the invincible oddity of his
character.
Since the vivid presentation of its sub-
ject is the first requirement of a bio-
graphy, Mr. Ellis’s book must obviously
be accounted admirable ; like his Lachlan
Macquarie it will probably become the
standard Life. Greenway has acquired
something of a mythological status, and
it was high time somebody showed us
what the legend was made of. For the
rest, the biography is fluent in style, full
of color and action and ironical humor ;
it is compact; and its history is fully
documented.
Mr. Ellis has probably told too much
of the truth and set him down too clearly
for Greenway, unless he is mollified by
the affection of the treatment and by the
high tribute to his architecture quoted
from Hardy Wilson, to be more than
moderately grateful for the biography ;
but the handsome production by the
Shepherd Press should come about as
close as is humanly possible to satisfying
his very exacting requirements. The book
is published in two editions—one of 1500
copies bound in cloth, and a de luxe
of 350 signed copies, some in red and
some in blue morocco. Both editions are
lavishly illustrated with fine color-plates
illustrating Greenway’s buildings and the
Sydney of his period. Conrad Martens,
Hardy Wilson and Sydney Ure Smith are
among the artists represented.
S.
The Impecunious Gunman.
The British huntin’-and-shootin’ man
has always been something of a mystery
to the common people ; and since the
recent war he seems like taking his
manner-of-life, his private language and
his ritual with him to the grave which
the Labor Government has dug for his
class—that, at any rate, is the argument
of Guns Wanted by J. K. Stanford
(Faber), author of The Twelfth, that de-
lightful comedy in which a colonel was
turned into a grouse.
In the vigorous, precise language of the
officers’ mess. Colonel Stanford has drawn
portraits of a dozen or so contemporary
British sportsmen, mostly Army officers
or ex-officers, making do on their heavily-
taxed pensions, typified by an old major-
general who is serving under another
name as a beater, driving pheasants or
partridges on to the waiting guns of a
set of poverty-stricken majors, captains
and brigadiers, eked out by a wealthy
writer of crime stories and a fabulously
rich blackmarketeer and nightclub-
owner.
The story is of Major Gerald Warde of
the Roans, how he came back to England
after service in India and in various
theatres of the recent war, did a season’s
shooting as paying guest at various boxes,
and killed a fox and secured the hand in
marriage of a charming young horse-
woman, Ann Heriot, at a wonderfully-
described hunt at which he acted as
Master.
Welcoming him back to England, his
old friend Major Angus Samborne takes
him to a London nightclub where, a social
columnist having passed-out, they are
commissioned by Cyril de Bourbon,
photographer for the society magazine
“By-Prattler,” to write captions for his
pictures and take them immediately to
the Press. The captions are a model of
what such things should be:
The Hon. Marigold was in a purple and
yellow-flowered chiffon which matched her
complexion and her new utility eyelashes.
....They were with Captain “Fruity”
Ingersoll, very genial in his new den-
tures. ...
Among the diners were Major Tom
Beckenham, M.P., and his attractive wife,
the Hon. Mrs. Beckenham. She has, of
course, a great deal of money, but not as
much as when she first met T0m ....
Major Samborne is a secret worker for
Scotland Yard, and accompanies Major
Warde to the shooting disguised as butler
and loader, in order to keep a watch on
the suspected blackmarket dealings of the
nightclub proprietor. If Colonel Stanford
is bitter about the nightclub proprietor,
he is savage with the thriller-writer, mak-
ing him guilty of the unforgivable crime
of shooting a beater, and the old major-
general beater, at that; and with Home-
Guard ammunition which, because it has
six pellets to a cartridge, the novelist
imagines to be Number Six Shot. The
unhappy novelist, ignorant of his crime,
is then allowed to hold a detective-story
“no-one-leave-the-room” inquisition on
the shooting . . . It is all very unkind,
and to this extent unfair —that the average
reader, who would probably be as out-of-
place as the novelist or the nightclub
proprietor on a British shooting moor, is
by the author’s clever malice encouraged
to view them with a superior sneer.
It is a funny book and a bitter book,
a book of precise character-sketches and
fine British landscape; the obituary of a
class and —something rarely heard—the
voice of the British Army officer on the
social and political changes of post-war
Britain.
Welsh Novel.
For the first hundred pages Some Trust
in Chariots, by Jack Jones (Hamish
Hamilton, Ltd.), is an excellent story of
the Welsh Tewdwr family’s establishment
of the large firm of Tewdwrs Haulage,
Limited, in the new mining town of
Pontyglo in the 1880’s; of the seduction
of the farmhand Rhys Tewdwr by his
future wife, Amy Meredith, the farmer’s
daughter, and of their merging into the
respectable chapel-going life of Pontyglo.
But of the last 300 pages, which bring
the saga up to post-World-War 11, it would
be hard to say which is more boring, the
love-life of Rhys’s partner Harry Tewdwr,
his three wives, his barmaids, actresses,
chorus-girls and the two women who, in
his extreme old age, he keeps in a London
house to share his company on alternate
nights, or Mr. Jones’s mouthing,
mannered and. meretricious commentary
on family fortunes and national events.
Some of the scenes are quite good;
the final fight between Harry and his
second wife, Flo Pegler, for instance, or
the scenes with the actor-manager Bruce
V. Brandon. As a businessman old Harry
must have been pretty shrewd to run and
extend a big transport company, and own
and manage a chain of theatres and
picture-shows ; but as a lover he is only
—so many of us are —a stupid and
repetitive old rooster.
D. H, Lawrence, who did so much to
publicise Welsh lovemaking, could never
ha ve done . anything with a character Tike
ol,d Harry—indeed, when he considers the
type, his writing shakes with rage—and
Shakspeare succeeded only by making him
a comic genius, in Falstaff. Mr. Jones is
no Lawrence or Shakspeare, but if he
had made old Harry’s lovemaking into a
background for a careful study of his
moneymaking ho might have had a
better novel.
Things Not Generally Said: H.
Martin-Leake (Christopher Johnson,
London). Essay on politics by a soldier
who, at 22, was killed a few days before
the «nd of World War 11. His point of
view was that of a liberal conservative.
* * * *
Authority and the Individual: Bert-
rand Russell (Allen and Unwin). The
series of broadcast talks which constituted
the first Reith Lectures. Among other
subjects, the author deals with the virtual
destruction of the Scottish hand-woven
tweed industry, first by competition with
machines and then by a “purchase tax’’
which is giving the weavers their “coup-
de-gracethe results being, firstly, “the
loss of one more local and traditional
skill which brought to those who ex-
ercised it the joy of craftsmanship”;
secondly, “the diminution in the in-
trinsic excellence of the product” ; and
thirdly, “the independent weavers be-
come units in a vast, hideous and un-
healthy human ant-hill.” From which,
of course, follows an attack on the in-
ability of the Socialist controllers to
control their passion for controlling
things.


TRUTH®IN ADVERTISING
KTHOiY HORDERNS’
The “Eureka” Vacuum Cleaner makes the
usual back-breaking job of floor cleaning into the
nature of a leisurely “walk-about! t
7/11 weekly
Specially designed for wall-to-wall carpets, Eureka has
the most powerful suction of all Vacuum Cleaners!
With simple to fit accessories that stay attached, fully
guaranteed for 12 months. £24/1.0/-. Attachments extra.
N
/
M
ov)
r
~~<S ZSZT~~~
J
\
u
v :
The “Servis” Washing Machine is an English
triumph of streamlined efficiency, does a thorough job
and is easy as winking to handle!
12/2 weekly
Power driven wringer, hard baked enamel finish. |-h.p.
motor on rubber mountings, plugs into normal power
point. Delivered, demonstrated free within metropolitan
area. Fully guaranteed, £79/10/-; with pump, £B5/15/-.
2
&
V
M
y
The “Dandee” Electric Portable Ironer
irons to perfection shirts, sheets, frocks, napery, collars,
lingerie, in the twinkling of an eye!
6/1 weekly
Completely portable. Plug the “Dandee” into normal
power point. With driving mechanism completely
enclosed, you can sit down to iron in complete
safety. Simply operated, fully guaranteed. £39/15/-.
YES! my time and labour are cut to a minimum with these . .
Time-saving Appliances
*
t
—^
K
/
\ \
4
a
A
I
n
w
ft
Porcelain Electric Jugs.
Suitable for AC only, these
attractive, modern electric jugs
ihave Cream porcelain bodies,
moulded plastic lids. Capacity
pints, 38/-. Flex, plugs, 6/-.
Sandwich Toasters.
Designed to make one, two
or three decker sandw|ches
cjisp and tasty. Of attrac-
tive, modern design. Price,
£5/9/6; flex and plugs 6/-,
Electric Hair Dryers.
50 only o£ these dryers, ideal
for quick drying with oper-
ating switch for hot or cold
air. With flex and plugs,
reasonably priced at £5/5/-.
English Thermos Flasks.
In strong metal case, these
flasks will keep liquids hot for
24 hours, cold for 72 hours!
Fitted with plastic drinking
cup, they hold 2 large cups. 12/3.
Electric Floor Polisher.
“Mercury” three-brush polisher.
Ideal for all surfaces. With
special ball bearing motor,
guaranteed. 240 volts, £2B/1/-;
32 and 110 volts, for £29/1/-.
THESE APPLIANCI
HORDERNS’ EASY TERMS—M


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3628
Wednesday, August 24, 1949
MORE VERY FUNNY FISHES.
“Otis Barton, scientist, who last week descended 4500ft. under the Pacific in his ‘henthoscope,’ reported an ‘unbelievable world,’ and many queer fish.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
\ • David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
npTTpsV B T a u k ? tr T’S erth \ ■
New Zexl^b:pNa hans Build,ngs (opposite
'
THE PETROL LEG-PULL.
When the Premiers’ conference at Can-
berra last week resumed the petrol argu-
ment at the point where it was left last
June, the States’ representatives (Tas-
mania only excepted) continued to oppose
a resumption of petrol-rationing, and Mr.
Chifley was no more convincing than
formerly in his argument that a petrol
drought was inescapable. Typical of his
outlook was his retort, when Premier
Hollway of Victoria asked whether petrol
could not be imported from Russia—
“ Surely you don’t really expect us to
pour Russian petrol into Victorian
pumps! ”
Why not, if Russia will supply it? Mr.
Chifley doesn’t say even whether he has
inquired. Does Australia refuse to sell
wool to Russia? Is the restoration of
international trade in the widest range
an objective which the Chifley Govern-
ment shares or riot? It looks as though
this U.N.O. aim to break down isola-
tionist barriers that Dr. Evatt is always
beefing about is sheer bluff as far as
Australia is concerned. Or have oil
authorities persuaded Mr. Chifley that
there is no oil in Russia?
What are the alternatives? The Prime
Minister insists that he cannot claim more
petrol on sterling account because that is
unfair to Socialist Britain, and that it is
impossible to buy more petrol from the
dollar area because we cannot earn the
necessary dollars, A policy of going all-
oUt to increase production in order to
earn more dollars appears to be incom-
patible with “Golden Age” theories. And,
anyhow, the whole Anglo-American
petrol position is to be reviewed at the
conference between the two Governments
in September.
Mr. Chifley brought his rationing
experts, headed by the Commonwealth
Director of Rationing, to bear against
the State Premiers in support of his own
representations. He said:
Australia must live within the dollars
she earns, and there was no option but to
reduce petrol imports.
Petrol sales since Commonwealth ration-
ing was knocked out on June 6 had gone
up 45 per cent, in that month, proving
the oracles (by which he meant oil-trade
spokesmen) “complete fools or complete
liars.” [These figures were later altered to
12| per cent., and “fools or liars” seems
to be an easily-transferable phrase of
debate.]
Mr. Chifley wanted the State Premiers
to take on rationing of petrol, for which
the Commonwealth Government would re-
imburse them the administrative costs.
His Director of Rationing, “the (ration-
ing) animal within him licking the chops
of memory,” aided and abetted with
“phenomenal” figures of consumption,
apparently incorrect and notable for en-
tire omission of any account of efforts
to reduce consumption of petrol by Gov-
ernmental users. He touched the tender
spot in this arrant political argument
when he said:
A reduced quantity of petrol would be
available during the summer months, when
pleasure motoring was usual and when
wheat and fruit crops had to be harvested;
—and when, of course, Mr. Chifley will
be going to the polls to seek re-election
of his Government “standing on its
record,”
On Mr. Chifley’s case the State
Premiers are thoroughly within their
rights in demanding further and better
particulars. A spokesman for N.S.W.
petrol service-stations said roundly that
Mr. Chifley’s talk about a 45 per cent,
increase in consumption was hooey, and
so, by later Government figures, it evi-
dently was. In retort to the “fools or
liars” charge, he said Mr. Chifley was
either trying to mislead the public or had
received bad advice. “A big proportion
of the increased sale went into reserve,”
as the Government itself brought down
legislation to create a defence reserve.
The Prime Minister’s offer to pay the
States’ cost of rationing got no bites
except from Tasmania. Premier McLarty
of Westralia said straightout that he
would not take it on ; the Victorian and
S.A. Premiers obviously wanted better
arguments than any they had heard ; Mr.
McGirr of N.S.W., who also has a
general election looming ahead of him,
wants a much better argument, and sug-
gested unanimous transfer of rationing
powers by the States to the Federal Gov-
eminent; whereon Queensland’s Mr.
Hanlon said'he refused to “pull his own
leg” that way. Later Dr. Evatt suggested
a transfer of powers for a term which
his leader estimated at “about three
years.”
If the Prime Minister were frank —
though no politician perhaps could be
quite so frank —he would admit that the
Commonwealth’s petrol-rationing staffs,
all “absorbed” in other departments since
June 6, want their jobs back; that the
Government expects to use more petrol
than ever, especially if another Com-
munist-run strike in essential services
comes about; and that, anyway. Social-
ism and collectivist planning assume in-
evitably a ruling condition of scarcity.
Under the policy of “organising scarcity”
why should petrol be exempt? As for the
cost of petrol-rationing, that is a mere
£270,000 a year, according to Mr.
Chifley’s figures given to Parliament,
equivalent at the retail selling price to
the cost of 2,100,000 gallons of petrol,
or at the c.i.f. price (say) 5,000,000
gallons. But that, of course, is chicken-
feed and is not chargeable in dollars.
How much more petrol goes in sheer
waste by Government users Mr. Chifley
does not attempt to estimate. But tax-
payers who read of a Government air-
craft whose pilot left some papers behind
on departure, returned to get them, and
dropped 1800 gallons or so of petrol in
the sea in order to be able to land safely,
are not inclined to listen to Mr. Chifley
on the benefits of those chains he laid
on them which the High Court struck off,
or, in the words of Mr. Hanlon, indulge
in “pulling their own legs.”
The State Governments, and the in-
dustries and civilian users whom they
represent, have had a raw deal, and to
all protests on that score Mr. Chifley
had been as deaf as a beetle. Specifically
the Federal Government —
Has refused to abate its petrol excise
and primage taxes in order to assist in
reducing costs of all production, even pro-
duction for export.
Has diverted the proceeds of these petrol
levies from improvement and upkeep of
main roads, for which the excise was
originally imposed, and treats it as “pri-
marily revenue impost to meet the expendi-
ture of the Commonwealth.” Very little
of the proceeds, amounting to £l6 million
a year, is spent on the nation’s roads.
Has put every State Treasurer’s back up
with his refusal under the uniform-taxation
law to relax in any way the “temporary”
measures adopted in war-time, depriving
those State Governments which retain any
sense of responsibility for Budget deficits
of their power to meet such deficits from
their own revenue resources.
Threatens now that no petrol will be
available for expansion of intra-State air
services, which exactly suits his programme (
for driving out of business all such com-
petition with his Federal airlines.
Mr. Chifley’s attitude that it is impos-
sible to govern the country without
centralised powers over everything and
everybody is one from which he will be
driven only by force of popular resent-
ment expressed through the ballot-box.
Till then he will not budge. Repeated
defeat of this stand at the hands of the
High Court has only soured him. A bank-
ing monopoly (under his Bank Grab Act)
would expose every small trader, every
citizen seeking credit advances, to Mr.
Chifley’s whim and veto. A “Yes” vote
at the Prices referendum would have
enabled Mr. Chifley to fix any charge for
any goods or services rendered in the
community. He is still whipping the cat
over the High Court’s unanimous dis-
missal of Federal petrol-rationing,
extended illegally from war-time. Yet,
posing as qualified for the job of
economic dictator of this Commonwealth,
he will not admit that his whole policy,
as now expressed in action, to meet a
strangulation of international trade is one
of deflation—the very deflation which, as
practised in 1930-31* “Labor” cursed
after the event with bell, book and
candle.
The Cost of "Socialism."
The coal strike in seven weeks has been
estimated to have cost £lOO million in
goods not produced, £33 million in wages,
of which the mine-workers lost a mere
£1,500,000. Relief payments amounted
to another £1,250,000. Unemployed at
the highest totalled 630,000, and industry
lost 127,000,000 man-hours, production,
employment and progress will be set
back for months, and the extent of suffer-
ing, illness and inconvenience cannot be
measured in money.
In return, in spite of Press blurb, the
public has received a sharp picture which
reveals as a hollow sham the constant
representation that “Labor” Govern-
ments bring peace in industry and that
Socialism will see the coming of the in-
dustrial millennium.
When World War II broke out the
Socialists—Stalin and Chiffcy brands
alike —laid it down that they would not
co-operate with a Liberal or Nationalist
Government, but that the entry of a
Socialist Government would
prove an incentive to all-round industrial
effort.
There never has been an Australian
Government nearer to being completely
socialistic than that of Mr. Chifley, who
began his reign in 1945 Jby an-
nouncing that he treated all new capital
issues at first sight as “90 per cent,
racket.” One of his first executive acts
was to put measures in train for the
socialisation of air transport, and he
gathered round him men of the Lloyd
Ross, J. A. Ferguson and R. A. King
stamp, men well acquainted with the
Communist technique.
Yet in the Chifley Socialist era, with
the country enjoying a boom such as it
has never enjoyed since the days of the
gold discoveries—by reason of the infla-
tion of the prices of primary products ex-
ported, the expanded civil-service payroll
and general extravagance —there has been
more disturbance in the industrial field,
and particularly in that part of it con-
trolled by the Communists, than in any
previous period of Australian history.
In 1939, with the Lyons and Menzies
Governments (which Communist-
Socialists of both breeds had sworn to
wreck through industrial non-co-opera-
tion and by other means) in power, there
were 362 industrial disputes in coalmin-
ing and 54 in the manufacturing and mis-
cellaneous field, costing the country a
total loss of 459,154 working-days.
In 1948 there were 1133 industrial
disputes, 970 of them in coal, which cost
a total of 1,338,728 working-days, the
bulk in transport and manufacturing.
And 1949 has already beaten last year’s
performance, and bids fair to break the
record of 2,119,649 lost working-days
established in Mr. Chifley’s first year of
office.
There has been only one year (1947)
since he took office in which there have
not been four times as many working-
days lost as in 1939.
Despite all this, the Chifley Govern-
ment, in conjunction with Mr. McGirr’s
outfit, has generally given the miners
and other Communist-led unions every-
thing they demanded. In the words of
Mr. Idris Williams, now languishing in
Long Bay, these unions have obtained
their demands “with ridiculous ease.”
According to Mr. Calwell, Mr. Chifley
and his Coal Tribunal have “done more
for the miners in two years than was
done for them in twenty years before the
tribunal was created.”
In the fortnight before the strike, it
has been said, there were over 2000
miners on the northern N.S.W. coalfields
who earned an average of £3 15s. a day
for considerably less than eight hours’
work —not to mention the ton of coal a
month which they and most others re-
ceived at a charge of 2s. 6d. per ton for
delivery.
This concession itself has caused an-
other strike on the N. S. Wales western
fields because the coal was not promptly
on the doorstep, with preference over the
shivering out-of-works beyond the coal-
fields, when the mines opened again after
being idle nearly two months.
Yet, apart from the more recent de-
cision of some lodges to ask for the ex-
pulsion of all members of Parliament
from coalfields constituencies who have
not supported the strike, the miners
have shown their gratitude for what
the Governments have done for them
—again the words are Mr. Calwell’s
—by choosing to “force an issue
in the depth of winter and cause
maximum inconvenience to the Aus-
tralian people, to force upon the Aus-
tralian people a strike that has no asso-
ciation with working conditions of
miners, the majority of whose leaders are
Communists, and who have told them to
demand ‘long-service leave, a 35-hour
week and a wage-increase of 30s. a
week, rejecting arbitration.’ ”
So far one can agree with Mr. Calwell
as to the facts, but the situation does not
add up to his summation that “so long
as the capitalist system lasts a great deal
of friction is inevitable. When capital-
ism and all its attendant evils have been
relegated to the limbo of forgotten things
we may have a better system of society,
one based on social and economic
justice.”
Not only the Stalin-Communists and
the capitalists are to blame for the pre-
sent situation. The whole “Labor” party
has for years encouraged the sort of thing
which has almost brought the Common-
wealth to its knees.
The standing policy of the N. S.
Wales Trades and Labor Council for 30
years has been framed by Communists
or their supporters and backed by those
(very few, as a rule) on the executive
who have not been Communists. An
attempt to repudiate arbitration was made
at the A.C.T.U. conference in October,
1934, at which the resolution to that
effect was moved by the secretary of the
Coalminers’ Federation, W. Orr, who was
also a member of the Central Committee
of the Communist party and a recently-
returned Moscow delegate. It was
seconded by J. A. Ferguson, now presi-
dent of the N. S. Wales branch of'the
A.L.P. and at the moment one of the
loudest screamers against the results of the
policy which he himself helped to initiate.
The policy of the N. S. Wales Trades
and Labor Council was established and
printed the same year by a committee
which included Mr. McAlpine, the pre-
sent general president of the Federal
A.L.P., J. S. Garden, acting with T.
Wright of the Communist Central Com-
mittee, and R. A. King, M.L.C.,
former trade-union leader of the Com-
munist party and now a leading light in
the anti-Communist movement and an
ever-present supporter of Mr. Chifley in
his travail.
This policy, which was laid down in
Moscow and conveyed to the Trades and
Labor Council through the directives of
the Red International and its secretary,
Solomon Losovsky, called for “every
effort to secure abolition of the [Arbitra-
tion] Court and the substitution of col-
lective bargaining by the workers organ-
ised industrially”—backed, of course,
by “union strength” and the use of the
strike weapon. It is the same system
which the Communist unions have been
enforcing, and it remained the official
policy of the N.S.W. Labor Council,
without drawing much protest from
“Labor” politicians, until 1945, when it
became apparent that it would presently
result in the complete replacement of
Labor-party authority by that of the
Communist Central Committee.
The Chifley-Evatt-Calwell-Ward com-
bination is just as much responsible for
the existing conditions as the Com-
munists. Mr. Chifley and his Ministers
are political opportunists seeking to win
both ways—to have the advantage of
Communist support and Communism’s
unlawful gains and at the same time the
trust of the people whose business and
employment and comfort they allow to
be wrecked to serve Communist ends.
A Bit of Head-hunting.
Earlier this year Mr. A. P. Rowe, Vice-
Chancellor of Adelaide University, told
the Adelaide schoolteachers’ conference:
High wages, now available for boys and
girls in dead-end jobs, and the acute short-
age of teachers are both arcs of a vicious
circle. All too few of your pupils are pre-
pared to face a period of training to be
teachers [or doctors or engineers or any-
thing else, for that matter] A wise
visitor might look at the Australian people
and say, “This is a kind, tolerant and very
lovable people, but they are without a faith
and do not even seek one”....The head-
hunters of Borneo died out when head-
hunting was forbidden....! might go so
far as to say that, if Australians could
acquire a religious faith of head-hunting,
they would have more chance of survival
than if they became wholly absorbed in
matefial prosperity and pleasures
Mr. Rowe spoke a greater truth
than he might have intended. A
spot of head-hunting is what this
country needs before anything else.
Not with knife or machete, but
with the ballot-box and the law.- The
country is cursed with enemies of its
own breeding, from rabbits to sly-
groggers, crooked “traders” to instances
of itchy-palmed public employees, vote-
hunting politicians to Communists. If
we are to become the kind of people en-
titled to live in this hospitable land we
ought to begin a crusade against these
evils and against their effect on public
morals; against the malady of under-
production and that ignorance of civic
affairs which is spreading despite free
education and vast advances in world
transport and communication.
Money has become an Australian god.
It is even said of a reigning State
Minister that he asked, concerning the
visit to Australia of an amateur athlete
from overseas, “What does he get out
of it?” The question sums up the general
outlook. It is one reason why, in States
where the Governments run lotteries,
charities can no longer depend on
simple charity for their funds, but
have to run gambles in competition.
Public indignation no longer enipts when
some person, elected or appointed to a
position of authority, is found to be
abusing his trust. Anybody who offers
himself for Parliament or any other public
position is likely to prompt the query
attributed to the State Minister, “What
does he get out of it?” And terrific
Government income taxes are making it
more and more a matter of economic
necessity that a man devoting his time to
public service should get something out
of it.
Rot comes down into a community
from its elected leaders. The Govern-
ment at Canberra follows the materialistic
way of yielding to the mob’s cry for
“wages,” “pensions,” “security,” “shorter
hours,” booze and gambling facilities,
and recks nothing of the consequences.
People have been encouraged to believe
that there is neither virtue nor riches in
hard work or education.
“Head-hunting” is? right. The “heads
of all .this will have to be pulled down and
Australians given new leadership and
new faith. 'Otherwise our years in this
land of plenty are numbered.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Disappointed Premier.
Though he got £28.7 million of the £70.5
million handed out to the States in grants
and tax-reimbursements, Sydney Premier
McGirr complained that it wasn’t enough,
and accused the Canberra Government of
“hoarding.” All the Premiers, knowing
the enormous amounts the Common-
wealth has collected from uniform taxes,
petrol, entertainments and sales taxes,
and aware of the vast sum still to come
from uncollected taxes, snorted about the
“inadequacy” of the grants:
N.S.W £28,721,000
Victoria .. .. .. £16,137,000
Queensland £11,535,000
S.A £6,055,000
W.A £5,830,000
Tasmania £2,220,000 ,
Inadequate or not, Mr. McGirr
did very well in proportion to Victoria
on a population basis. His issue amounts
to about £9 12s. per head of State popu-
lation, whereas Victoria’s is about £8 Is.,
though Victorians pay exactly the same
taxation. Mr. McGirr has longer and
more expensive railways than Victoria,
and his tram and bus finances show
frightening losses ; he has a bigger bunch
of Ministers to pay and his State suffers
from chronic strikes. This, however,
will be small comfort to Victorians, who,
on occasions such as this, must feel like
crossing the Murray and running the
N.S.W. Government enterprises for which
they have to help pay.
Last year the total grants ran into
£53.7 million; this year they’re £16.7
million higher, £8 million of which is a
“special grant to assist State Budgets”
hit by the just-ended main coal strike —
the usual little coal strikes go on.
Out of the bloated petrol-tax fund —
collections now run into £l6 million ’a
year—is to come one lonely million “for
outer roads in sparsely populated areas,”
making the outer-roads grant £3 mil-
lion. The Prime Minister cried that of
the £2 million granted last year only
£986,000 had been spent. Next day the
indignant secretary of the N,S.W. Local
Government Association arose and tartly
reminded Mr. Chifley that the reason was
that the grant had come too late in the
year—in the eleventh month, to be pre-
cise.
The Premiers —three “Labor” and three
non-“ Labor” —were all dissatisfied, but
the loudest cry of anguish came from the
Sydney one, head of the biggest “Labor”
State: —
In N.S.W. we just managed to finish the
year with a small surplus of £138,000....
We drew on reserves to the extent of
£700,000 to meet railway expenditure, and
we added £23 million to our public debt.
Under the tax-grant formula, New South
Wales will get a little more than £2B
million. This is less than two-thirds of
what it would have got had it remained in
the income-tax field, and only £l3 million
more than in 1942.
Between 1942 and 1949 the basic wage
has increased by 38s. a week
This alone'has cost the State £lO million,
and has eaten up the whole of the increase
in the tax grant.
The increased costs have been met by
increased State revenues and by increasing
business-undertaking charges, but the limit
has been reached.
The spiral of costs has been accentuated
by the withdrawal of price-stabilisation
subsidies, and this has meant further sharp
rises in costs in the current year with no
prospect of meeting them from revenue
sources within the control of the State....
I say emphatically that an increase by
not less than one-third in the grant payable
this year will meet the position and enable
us to carry on our services at a reasonable
standard.
If this is not done, what are the alterna-
. lives? Are we again to raise State charges
such as railway freight and fares?
To which, ignoring the fact that Mr.
McGirr brought most of it on himself
with his mad rush to bring in the 40-hour
week as 1947 election bait, Mr. Chifley
said tfie Commonwealth would have to
meet £7O million in war gratuities in the
next two years, and he had established
a reserve fund for that to save competi-
tion on the loan market, that the National
Welfare Fund (social services) had taken
a load off the States, particularly N.S.W.,
that Mr. McGirr’s argument .about the
basic wage was “specious,” and that
though few people could understand the
tax-reimbursement formula he thought it
“rather a clever bit of work.”
Whereupon the Premiers withdrew to
con their gifts and prepare to consider
a “record public-works programme in-
volving £167 million loan expenditure
in 1949-50,” the programme to be re-
viewed early next year “so that further
money could be made available if re-
quired.”
And Mr. McGirr had to comfort him-
self as best he could with the unpleasant
imminence of the 1950 N.S.W. election
and the fact that neither the £2B mil-
lion grant nor any promise of the immedi-
ate future permits him to tempt the
gullible with 90,000 houses, a 35-hour
week or a higher basic wage. He’ll have
to content himself with more race-days
and lott’ries and try to get near the lime-
light of Mr. Chifley’s proposed cheaper
beer and smokes.
Faint Hearts and Fat Heads.
A few days before the coal strike began
Transport Minister Ward suggested in
Caucus that the Prime Minister and
Senators Ashley and Holloway should
visit the coalfields and explain the Gov-
ernment viewpoint to the miners. The
proposal was turned down flat. Mr.
Haylen said that any such attempt would
result in complete failure, with a big loss
of prestige by the Government, and most
of the others seemed to agree with him.
Mr. Chifley himself declined to “go
about the country making provocative
speeches,” and said that “words were
more likely to inflame the position rather
than end it.”
The attitude of Caucus showed very
little faith in the ability of their leader,
and his own remarks showed little faith
in himself, although he has not always
been so modest. Some straight talking
from Chifley and Co. at that stage might
have averted the strike; their masterly
inactivity certainly made easier the task
of the Communists in convincing their
dupes that an easy victory was in sight.
Not long after * the strike began
“Labor” Ministers and members did go
to the coalfields. One or two went at
first, and when it was found that the
miners had no intention of biting them,
stoning them or even tarring-and-feather-
ing them a swarm of “Labor” politicians
descended upon the mining districts.
Chifley contented himself with long-
range bombardment by means of full-
page ads. in the Press. In the main, the
visitors urged the miners to go back to
work and stick to arbitration, though
some of them phrased their pleas in such
a way that the miners could not be
blamed for construing them into promises
that their claims would be conceded if
“THERE WAS AN OLD UNCLE WHO LIVED IN A SHOE..
ŵ
w


They satisfy
in every way •..
CRAVEN'*'
made specially io .
pievmt so
CARRERAS LIMITED
rr
Gu»|,
C «y
<r
J
V*
a
Rfisg
OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
is to revise the system of presenting the
national accounts and tender an honest
Budget. A simplified taxation law and a
Budget that the Auditor-General and all
public accountants would respect are
reforms for which this country has long
been crying in vain.
Of course,’ N.S.W.’s McGirr cannot
stand in any white-sheet as a reprover
of deceptive Budget-making. His com-
plaint about “the spiral of costs” which
irks- him could arouse only comment
about the devil quoting scripture. But
his statements are nonetheless evidence
against the financial deception of his
brothcr-Socialist in Canberra.
POLITICAL PONTS
Former Navy Minister Makin, now
Ambassador in Washington, is seldom
heard of these days, but if reports of his
latest speech in San Francisco are correct
it seems time he came back home for a
refresher course. Describing the collapse
of the coal strike as a crushing defeat for
the Communists, he told reporters that
there was no heavy Communistic influ-
ence in most Australian unions and that
“industrial disturbances had been negli-
gible in recent years.” He claimed that
Australia was “rapidly assuming the
leadership in Pacific affairs.” On the day
he said'that it was announced that New
Zealand, which had a week before re-
introduced conscription, was making
available a flight of aircraft for transport
duties between Singapore and Hong Kong
and had made arrangements to send three
frigates to Hong Kong if required. The
most the Prime Minister of the country
which is “rapidly assuming the lead in
Pacific affairs” has so far managed is
a statement that assistance will be con-
sidered “if Britain asks for it.” Did
Britain ask New Zealand?
For sheer hide—aged-rhinoceros variety
at that —the miners in the Lithgow State
mine take the biscuit. After a strike
which for seven weeks deprived the
nation of coal and hundreds of thousands
of people of their jobs they walked out
again as soon as the pit reopened.
Reason: they demanded first claim on
coal produced, as their backyard stocks
had been depleted during the strike. Most
people’s backyards have been innocent of
coal for the whole of the winter. The
selfish action of the State-mine employees
was quickly imitated in three other mines,
whereupon the Coal Board directed pro-
prietors to deliver miners’ coal on Mon-
day, and, wherever possible, immediately.
Another victory for direct action, within
a few days of what was supposed to be
its crushing defeat.
Every expert consulted in the last few
years has recommended the mechanical
extraction of pillar-coal in the N. S.
Wales mines, and every effort fo do so has
been thwarted by the Miners’ Federation.
Mines Minister Baddeley has now found
a solution. He hasn’t promised it will
be put into operation; it will be “pre-
sented to Parliament soon.” What will
happen then can only be guessed, but
Baddeley said of one mine which had
asked permission to use mechanical
methods of extraction that “he had in-
formed them he bad no objection if they
conferred with the Miners’ Federation.”
The Prime Minister cartie out on Sun-
day night with part of his election policy
—a grand scheme of unemployed-
relief work for which there is “a reserve
programme” of £743 million, divided be-
tween States and Commonwealth at the
Loan Council meeting. In the plan are
schools, hospitals, roads, houses, irriga-
tion works, power-stations and “the like.”
Most of them are urgent needs of the
moment and should be under construc-
tion now, and it shows what sort of an
outlook the Chifley Government has that
it should regard them not as urgently-
needed works but as unemployed-relief
schemes.
Plans are being made to celebrate in
1951 the fiftieth anniversary of the found-
ing of the Commonwealth. Details have
not yet been arranged, but they should
certainly include a day of thanksgiving
for the Federal Constitution, and, irre-
spective of what Government is in power,
it should be reserved for Doc Bvatt to
propose the toast “Section 92.”
Hollway told the Premiers’ Conference
that Victoria would be having a celebra-
tion of its own in 1951—the centenary of
its separation from New South Wales.
McGirr cracked back that New South
Wales might be celebrating that, too.
Something a lot of people in the McGirr
State would like to celebrate would be
the separation of New England and
Riverina from New South Wales. They
won’t get the chance while “Labor” re-
mains in office.
When the Premiers asked that the Com-
monwealth should pay rent for buildings
made available to Customs officials in the
ports Chifley said “It looks like a racket.”
Playford turned on him with “If there is
any racket it is a Commonwealth racket.
When the States ask for anything, you
always refer to it as a racket. I strongly
object.” And with every right. The
Chifley attitude is that he is the con-
troller of the nation’s purse, and may dip
deep into it without question for his own
pet projects. Anyone else who asks for a
handout, however worthy the object, is
at once suspect.
This streak in the Prime Minister’s
character was shown up when Holl-
way asked for rebates of income-tax
on gifts of £250 and over for technical
colleges and the like. In knocking him
back Chifley told of a man who had given
£lB,OOO for the building of a hospital
wing. He was paying income-tax at the
rate of 18s, 6d. in the £, so in effect, said
Chifley, the Government paid 18s. 6d. in
every pound of his gift and he paid only
Is, 6d. When the Federal Treasurer re-
gards a gift to charity as almost a theft
from the Treasury is it any wonder that
in his own home State the fount of
charity has almost dried up and institu-
tions which formerly relied on the gener-
osity of the public now find themselves
forced to compete with each other in
organising “monster” art unions, with
prizes rivalling “Labor’s” beloved State
Lottery?
The great Socialist sorghum project on
Peak Downs (Q.) hasn’t turned out quite
as expected, and its sponsors are on the
defensive. The million-bushels forecast
panned out around 320,000; late and in-
terrupted sowing because of rain, a heavy
initial and subsequent lesser frosts are
blamed. The outfit hasn’t given up its
pig scheme; it has 200 sows and plans
for more. 'Which, in a way, is fair
enough, but it’s a great pity there was so
much skite about it in the beginning.
And a lot of people are curious about the
cost of the thing.
Statement of Federal Government
policy:
The dollar position has become more
difficult and there can be no assurance
that the Government will be able to allow
imports [of petrol] to cover the consump-
tion of 440 million gallons....A reduced
quantity of petrol will be available during
the summer months when pleasure motor-
ing is usual and when wheat and fruit crops
have to be harvested. While the Common-
wealth Government will use its influence
with the oil companies to have sufficient
quantities of petrol available to move the
harvest, it is not sanguine that in the
absence of rationing the summer will pass
without chaos developing.
By the Prime Minister? By his deputy,
Dr. Evatt? By the responsible Minister?
By any member of the Cabinet? No, by
a Mr. Gumming, Director of Rationing,
a public servant who has nothing to do
with dollar policy. While he was at it,
he might have told us what he proposed
to do about ensuring sufficient coal to
move the harvest to the seaboard.
They’re growing impatient in Queens-
land over the Blair Athol coal business,
and both Kerr (Lib.) and Maher (C.P.)
are asking Hanlon to cancel the contract
with the English Electric Supply Corpora-
tion and let somebody who will dig it
out get at the coal. Through his deputy,
Hanlon replied that presently the
members would have a report on
“Queensland coal potentialities.” If all
the reports put out by Premiers and Prime
Ministers on “potentialities” could be
gathered up and stored for fuel the
country could stand another couple of
coal strikes.
The Prices people wouldn’t agree to
a 3d.-a-pound increase for butter, and
Finnan declared the reason was that the
Commonwealth wouldn’t answer “certain
questions.” Whereupon Jamieson, boss
of the Dairy Farmers’ Federation, de-
clared that an inquiry had proved costs
to have risen by 2|d. a pound; he
blamed the 40-hour week and basic-wage
increases. The cowmen are now watching
to see how the brewers get on in their
request for a higher beer price.
A Brisbane coffin-maker told the
Queensland Timber Commission of
Inquiry that he had closed his factory
because he couldn’t get suitable timber.
Nobody need imagine, therefore, that he
can solve his accommodation problem by
dying. Fancy sharing a casket with in-
laws !
It’s a couple of years since Calwell had
a trip abroad, and in a “Labor”
Minister’s bosom that creates a complex
like the one a woman gets when she
hasn’t had a new-season’s hat. So Cal-
well, according to its skipper, had an
immigrant-ship en route to Newcastle
(N.S.W.) diverted to Fremantle (W.A.)
so that he could kiss (and be photo-
graphed kissing) his 50,000 th “New Aus-
tralian.” Cost of the incident is
reckoned at £lOOO.
Only Australia, Norway and Ethiopia
have so far ratified the U.N.O. resolution
outlawing genocide. The reform of the
Vikings is a matter of local interest only,
but there should be rejoicing throughout
the whole world at the news that we and
the Abyssinians have at last agreed to
give up our traditional pastime of
massacring minorities.
If, as Washington reports, British
drawings from the dollar petrol pool are
to be reviewed at the September confer-
ence there between British and American
Treasurers and their experts, why should
Chifley be hustling the State Premiers to
agree to drastic rationing restrictions be-
fore the result of those “higher-level”
talks is known? He seems, to be hustling
them with exaggerated figures, too.
Another trial of strength is de-
veloping between A.C.T.U. and the
Federal A.L.P. advisory committee
on which is to give advice to
the Chifley Cabinet on “Labor” legisla-
tion. The A.L.P. executive wants the
Government to amend the Arbitration
Act to prohibit members of the Com-
munist party from holding paid positions
or administrative offices in trade-unions,
or on shop committees. The A.C.T.U.
frowns on this as an intrusion upon the
domestic affairs of unions. The contest
is not expected to be settled 1 till after a
meeting on October 3.
Calwell got much the worst of an argu-
ment, ranging over the past few weeks,
with Dr. Rumble, of the R.C. church,
about “Labor’s” socialisation objective.
The Minister took up the challenge that
“Catholics must regard the socialisation
plank as utterly opposed to natural moral
law” by -saying that adoption of the
“Blackburn interpretation” of 1921 —
construing the objective as limiting
socialisation to “industries exploiting the
people”—was, on his (Calwell’s) assur-
ance, “completely and absolutely official.”
To this Dr. Rumble replied that the 1921
conference defeated the Blackburn
motion, and at the Canberra A.L.P. con-
ference last year a motion to reaffirm it
was withdrawn.
N.S.W’s McGirr told the Premiers’
conference that each Is. rise in the basic
wage costs his Government £260,000
more a year in wages. This was one of
the costs of his 40-hour-week legislation
which, he told the Arbitration Court in
1947, could “easily be met.” He is not
so happy about it now. A rise of about
£4 a week which would be represented
in the £lO-a-week basic-wage demand
would—exclusive of other rises in
marginal fates, etc.—cost McGirr, there-
fore, nearly £2l million a year in State
wages expenditure. Then the fun would
begin in a McGirr caucus which bucked
for a week over a rise of a penny in
tram-fares.
Possibly thinking it might recompense
the States in a small way for the millions
he had clipped off their requisitions for
Commonwealth grants, Chifley told the
Premiers he was prepared to kick in with
£30,000 towards the establishment of a
National Theatre. Fair enough, but let’s
hope it provides fare more acceptable to
the public taste than the national circus
he has been running for the past four
years.
Calwell’s Information Department
apparently has access to sources of in-
formation denied to anyone else. The
most fruitful of these seems to be the
imagination of Calwell himself. While
he was in Perth recently—placing a pater-
nal peck on the inoffensive brow of his
50,000 th New Australian—-he delivered
himself of a pre-election campaign speech,
in the course of which he made the
standard “Labor” Minister’s reference to
the last depression. Amending history a
little he made the depression linger on
till 1940, at which date he claimed
“250,000 persons were out of work
although a war had already started and
recruiting for the armed services had been
on a large scale.” The Commonwealth
Statistician, under the heading “Unem-
ployment of members of trade-unions,”
1940, gives the figure 39,116. As the
unions reporting cover only about 54
per cent, of unionists, the Minister may
perhaps double that figure. He should
be able to find among his information-
men someone capable of checking it.
Anyone who says there were 250,000 per-
sons unwillingly out of work in 1940 is
obviously, in the Prime Minister’s ele-
gant phrase, either a fool or a liar.
Calwell would be the last man to admit
himself a fool.
Lower export-prices for wool and wheat
are forecast by the Bureau of Agricultural
Economics, which expects a drop in
national income from exports for 1949-
50 from the £546 million of last year to
£426 millioij. It notes the collapse of the
overseas lead market, but doesn’t com-
ment on the effect of this on the big
money being paid at Broken Hill and Mt.
Isa. Wool is expected to drop £59 million
and wheat £45 million. A few more coal
and shipping strikes, a continuation of the
drift of land labor to the cities, and
Chifley’s big election stunts and relief
schemes will be needed far sooner than
he expects. And where is that “Golden
Age”?
Stalin has told Tito that he’ll be
“forced to take more effective measures
to defend the rights of Soviet citizens in-
humanly persecuted in Yugoslavia.” With
the names changed they’re the words
Hitler used before grabbing Czechoslo-
vakia and Austria.
When the Premiers’ conference ended
it seemed that Chifley’s chances of re-
introducing petrol - rationing through
agreement with the States were about nil;
even the “Labor” Premiers weren’t keen
to touch it. McGirr and Hanlon have an
election to think of, and they are already
thinking hard.


SOCIETY
"AND IT'S PRINTED WITH WIMBRS INKS"
“X.S.”: The discovery has been made
that Melbourne hasn’t any daily papers.
It came about over a case in which a
Shepparton resident was charged with
having used an electric radiator contrary
to State Electricity Commission regula-
tions. The regulations require that
emergency restrictions be advertised in
a Melbourne daily, and they were duly
advertised in the “Argus.” But learned
counsel for the defence pointed out that,
by definition, the “Argus” was not a
daily paper, inasmuch as the dictionary
defines “daily” as “happening every
day, including Sunday,” and, under
law, the “Argus” isn’t allowed to happen
on Sundays except when a war is de-
clared, or somebody bombs Pearl Har-
bor, or some other event occurs of
world-shaking import. Lawyer for the
Commission contended that the “Argus”
was a daily, because it was published on
every day permitted under Victorian law,
but Mr. Catlow, S.M., said he was
bound by the literal interpretation. So,
as the matter stands at present, there are
no daily papers in Victoria, all relevant
S.E.C. advertisements are ultra vires, and
there is no way it can fulfil its own
regulations in the future. Five cases
have been adjourned for eight weeks
while the S.E.C. seeks legal opinion on
the subject.
* * * *
“Col M.”: I had hoped that when I
tee up with a record behind me of having
never duffed a shot,
landed in a bunker,
fallen in the rough,
sliced a ball, hooked a
ball, topped a ball, or
even hit one, I would
be starting with an open
mind on golf. Hearing
that I intended taking
up the game, golfers I
know have become my
counsellors. The tech-
nical advice has me least
worried. If it is humanly
possible to do all the
things necessary to hit-
ting a ball correctly I’ll
try to do them. It is
some “spiritual” advice
on the game that has me
thinking. The friend
who gave it drew me
aside and said: “Don’t
do it. Stay as you are.
You’ll get into bad com-
pany.” He listed his
reasons, and when I
told him that I didn’t
want to play just to get
out of my home, just
because of my herd
instincts, just to sit in
the clubhouse guzzling,
or to make acquaintances useful
to my business, he smiled, and
didn’t say another word. But that smile
contained pity, genuine sorrow and amaze-
ment at another’s innocence, and I will
blame it for the mass of complexes that
will no doubt govern my initial swipe
at the game.
“Zake”: The late Rod Quinn always
recalled with a chuckle the casualness of
a post-office hand of the long ago.
Quinn, Brady and Lawson were bewail-
ing over their beer the threat to a poet’s
life consequent upon the appointment to
The Bulletin of a new business-
manager who had cut down the lineage-
rate for contributors, and, as usual upon
such Bohemian occasions, Brady’s first
thought was to concoct a telegram to
someone. His victim was Archibald.
After a hilarious session they filled it in.
It read; “Have just murdered Soanso”
(the business-manager). “Sending his
ears up to you. Brady.” When they pre-
sented it at the post-office counter the
postal man carefully counted each letter,
ticked it as o.k. and, registering no more
surprise than he would had it been a
birthday greeting, soberly said “That will
be ninepence.”
“Eddie”: “Kelms” * (B. 27/7/’49)
merely flaunts his bourgeois ancestry in
claiming the boomerang as the brain-
child of the Australian aborigine. This is
a vicious capitalist lie which I hurl back in
his plutocratic teeth. On April 1, 1947,
our great father and teacher, Comrade
Stalin, awarded the Marxist-Leninist-
Stalinist Bronze Back-scratcher, First
Class, to Soviet Professor Kumbak for
his researches in centrifugal aerodynamics
and for his great weapon of defence, the
boomerangski, prototype of inferior
capitalist imitations. Comrade Kumbak,
it will be remembered, was previously
honored for his ingenious firestick to
replace matches, and for his expandable
dilly-bag.
* * * *
“Tom”: Miners seem always to have
taken their politics seriously. In the 18th
century English miners were generally
sympathetic to Jacobitism, As late as the
1770’s the coalminers of Northumber-
land, during a strike, proclaimed Prince
Charlie King. Jacobite agents just before
the ’45 reported strong support for the
Stuarts amongst the Cornish miners.
Those of Staffordshire, also, were strongly
inclined to Jacobitism, as, indeed, were
most people in that county, which won
the nickname of “The Pretender’s Patri-
mony:” In the years after Waterloo there
was strong support amongst French coal-
miners for the restored Bourbon dynasty.
Shortly before Charles X, the last
monarch of the elder Bourbon line, was
driven from the throne by the July Revo-
lution of 1830, headed by his relative and
successor, Louis Phillipe, Duke of
Orleans, a deputation of coalies called on
the king. They petitioned, or rather de-
manded, that he shut up the Parliament,
the lower House of which was in control
of hostile Liberals; “The collier is master
in his house. Be you in yours,” the
spokesman declared.
«' * « *
“Gravelsnatcher”; A teacher in a
Perth high-school Was marking essays
on “An Atom-bomb on Perth.” One
lad wiped out the pity with one bomb
dropped from a Russian plane, but by
an “inexplicable” miracle he was unhurt
and became the only human being in
W.A. (In the margin the teacher wrote
“all miracles are inexplicable—that’s why
"I Want something more like a wolf-call ”
they are miracles.”) The lad then related
how he journeyed to the Darling Ranges,
where he found a dog —the only dog left
alive. Some years later, the world hav-
ing forgotten the existence of Australia,
the lonely lad repeated his journey.
Again he found the dog. But it was no
longer lonely. It had 10 little pups.
This, the teacher wrote, “was a
miracle.”
* * * *
“Laetitia”: In mid-August, 1942, a
recce party of 61 Battalion at Milne Bay
noticed what appeared to be surveyor’s
markings blazed on a tree. The marking
was somewhat indistinct and partially
weather-obliterated, but bore a seemingly
Japanese character. A survey of the ter-
rain indicated that the vicinity of the
marked tree would make an ideal H.Q. if
an enemy landed near by. The marked
"Now just relax and imagine I’m your Prince Charming ."
tree was reported to Intelligence and
passed on to Brigade, but possibly be-
cause that beachhead was about the most
suicidal spot the Nip could have chosen
for his landing, no significance was
attached to it. Yet on the night 25/26
August, 1942, the Jap Marines landed on
the identical beachhead; and when the
invaders’ H.Q. was captured some days
later the marked tree w r as serving as the
ridgepole of the orderly-room.
* * * *
“Becks”; The outbreak of “give-it-a-
name” competitions in Sydney—at pre-
sent three papers are locked in deadly
combat over ’em —reminds me of the
time I wrote the winning title for a simi-
lar contest run by a Melbourne paper.
I didn’t get the prize, but that proves
nothing. The most prominent feature of
the published sketch was«a crowd of
bus-conductors singing happily. The
title came to me in a flash of inspiration
—“Chorus from Carmen.” I tried it out
on my wife and sister; they agreed it
was a winner, so I posted it off immedi-
ately with the sixpence entrance fee.
Next morning in the train an acquaint-
ance confided to me that he was going to
win first prize in the “give-it-a-name.”
He’d tell me his entry if I promised not
to let it go any further. I promised, and
in a husky whisper he said “ ‘Chorus
from Carmen.’ Good, don’t you think?”
I agreed, privately hoping my own entry
would be opened first. Arrived at the
office, the cashier greeted me. “Like to
shake Hands with a man who’s coming
into money?” He was about to lick an
envelope. “Better have a look at it be-
fore I seal it down. It’s the winner,”
I looked —“Chorus from Carmen.” Be-
fore the day was out two more “win-
ners” had confided in me, each swearing
me to secrecy, and when I got home my
wife reported three and my sister two
more. Next day it was the same story,
and the next. Melbourne seemed to be
simply teeming , with people who had
simultaneously had the same brainwave
as myself. Well, not exactly simul-
taneously ; of course the inspiration came
to me first. I’ve forgotten now what
title collected the prize, but I am still
convinced, like several thousand others,
that mine was the real winner.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: That resurrected Charlie
Chaplin two-reeler (B. 3/ 8 / ’49) helped
to iron out a question-mark that has been
furrowing my brow for years. Often I
asked myself: Why do Charlie’s modern
films bore you, though his earlier pictures
rocked you all over the seat? Has your
sense of humor changed? Is it because
Chaplin changed his style? Or can the
modern technique be the trouble? The
old-timer showing currently in Sydney
convinced me that my sense of humor
isn’t changed ; I roared as loudly as I
did 30 years ago. But it showed defi-
nitely that “the bloke with the baggy
pants” has changed his style. I can trace
my waning appreciation from the time
when the straight-out funny-man of “The
Adventurer,” “Work,” etc., became the
sentimentalist of “The Kid.” Then came
the films with “a message,” and I could
no longer laugh at the erstwhile King of
Comedy, But watching the old “flick”
I formed a strong opinion that the old
camera’s technique was an asset to a
comedian —the queer, jerky actions, the
ridiculous speed of the actors’ movements
and the fast tempo effect caused by the
flickerings would make any film seem
funny. I’d like to see Mary Pickford in
an old tear-jerker again—“The Poor
Little Rich Girl” or “Such a Little
Queen.” If either of these wouldn’t set
a modern audience howling with laughter
I’ll eat one of those straw-biscuits we
used to wear at the time.
* * * »
“Hamfat”: A queer stage vendetta
started when a pair of actor brothers left
Brisbane after a prolonged season of
melodrama without paying the landlady
the board-bill of their company. She sued,
but was nonsuited on the grounds that
her action lay against each individual
boarder. Normally a genial woman, she
swore revenge; as she ran a hashhouse
where people from all over Australia
stayed and she made friends with her
boarders, she was not without allies as
long as she found out where the levanting
pair were appearing. At a critical moment
in one of the plays at Toowoomba some-
body in the audience demanded loudly
“Why don’t you pay your board-bill?”
The question cropped up next night at
Warwick, and a few days later at Armi-
dale. It followed the show everywhere,
and was even a nightly feature of a short
season in Sydney. When, after several
months of it, the insulting query turned
up at Bendigo the actor brothers decided
that they had had enough. They packed
up and went to America.
♦ * * *
“Plop”: “Squad, for inspection,
por-r-t—urns! ” This was a Citizen Army
sar’-major. He had that old note in his
vpice, and when he’d looked at the rifles,
the same story, told with the same old
venom. “They’re foul!” he thundered.
“But they won’t be next time. Those
rifles will be clean! I’ll see that they are.
And if they’re not”—- He paused here
for some moments. As I watched across
the fence I could almost hear him think-
ing “Steady. That’ll never do. This is the
Citizen Army. They can ‘retire’ any
time they like. I’ve only got a few left
n0w...” At last he made his statement.
“If they’re not clean,” he croaked, “I’ll
keep you all behind one afternoon until
they are.” Can any army whose sar’-
majors must censor their threats ever be
a success?
* * * *
“Pawang”: Much excitement has been
caused in Melbourne by the discovery of
a 12-year-old boy in a State school who
can add up 14 digits in four to five
seconds, and he has earned the distinc-
tion of having his photo in the “Herald.”
I am not so hot at figures, but can do it
in six seconds, so it doesn’t seem a very
remarkable faculty even for a boy of 12.
It doesn’t follow that the lad will be an
Einstein —that great man was reputedly
a mug at arithmetic in his schooldays.
Very early in life I found I had a capacity
to forfn fresh words out of others. I
could look at a word like “Carlton” and,
forgetting about the beer, could instantly
say “That ought to make about thirty,”
and my companions, who couldn’t see
more than half a dozen words in it, would
be suitably astounded. One of my
teachers told me that it indicated that I
was destined to be a writer, and I was
so impressed that I started practising
harder than ever and became a positive
virtuoso at it. It didn’t turn me into a
writer, any more than analysing “Hamlet”
turns university undergraduates into
Shakspeares, but it certainly protects me
from thinking when that activity becomes
irksome.
* * * *
“X.M.N.”: The strike left a few trains
running in Tasmania; one traveller can
vouch for two. He got out of his carriage
at Penguin, on the north-west coast, and,
returning some minutes later, resumed
his seat only to find that the engine pulled
out in the direction from which he had
just come. During his absence his train
had pulled out to let the passing train
through. He jumped into hospital at the
first crossing.
THE FISHER.
[These verses, typical of Rod Quinn at his best,
were published in The Bulletin of Nov. 26, 1898.]
All night a noise of leaping fish
Went round the bay, \
And up and down the shallow sands
Sang waters at their play.
The mangroves drooped on salty creeks,
And through the dark.
Making a pale patch in the deep,
Gleamed, as it swam, a shark.
In streaks and twists of sudden fire
Among the reeds
The bream went by, and where they passed
The bubbles shone like beads.
All night the full deep drinking-song
Of Nature stirred.
And nought beside, save leaping fish
And some forlorn night-bird.
No lost wind wandered down the hills
To tell of wide
Wild waterways; on velvet moved
The silky, sucking tide.
Deep down there sloped in shadowy mass
A giant hill,
And midway, mirrored in the tide,
The stars burned large and still.
The fisher, dreaming on the rocks,
Heard Nature say
Strange, secret things that no one hears
Upon the beaten way;
And whisperings and wonder stirred.
And hopes and fears,
And sadness touched his heart, and filled
His eyes with star-stained tears:
And so, thrilled through with joy and love
And sweet distress,
He stood entranced, enchained by her
Full-breasted loveliness.
RODERIC QUINN.


w
your dependants look to to make the wisest choice
Your choice of an Executor and Trustee is a decision which directly
affects the welfar'e of your dependants. Your Trustee should be
chosen for his business knowledge, integrity, experience, perma-
nence and financial stability, otherwise you may imperil your
family’s inheritance. An executor should not be selected on
grounds of sentiment or affection. Avoid all risks by appointing the
Permanent Trustee Company. You can then be assured of expert
administration of your affairs, combined with absolute security and
safety.
Why not call and discuss this matter further with one of our
Executive Officers? Or write for free booklet, “Trust Estates and
Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G, Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M., F.R.A.CS.
J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager ; C. N. P. Whittle Sub Manager: S. U. White
Secretary: F. R. Garland
ŵ
COMPANV OF N.S.W. LIMITED
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH
ẁ
“P.0.M.C.”: That yarn about the
Diggers fooling Spaniards at a bullfight
by cheering the bull (B, 10/8/’49) re-
minds that the unorthodox behavior of
their fathers often bewildered the Belgian
peasantry during the 1914-18 scrap. If
ever a man was master in his own home
the Belgian villager was; domestic duties
such as washing-up, peeling spuds, or
chopping wood just weren’t done—by
him. But Diggers billeted in Belgian
villages frequently helped with the chores,
from scrubbing kids to “making” beds,
thereby innocently embarrassing madame
and threatening the status of the sullen
head of the house. Incidentally, I often
wondered what the Belgians of both sexes <
really thought of us. Trying to interpret
the eyes of man, woman and child, and
from chance remarks I concluded that,,
they considered us a concoction or in >
carnation of gods from another world,
devils, nature’s gentlemen and lunatics,
« * # *
“Flathead”: At the weekends I see my
neighbors tilling their soil, sowing their
seed, answering their calls to lunch with
ringing, healthy cries, and my only excuse
for not working along with these bees
has been that it is my first “planting
season” in the suburb. They were here
last year. They can hunt around until
they find the perimeter of last year’s beds,
dig over that softer stuff, then boast on
Monday morning’s train “I laid out six
new beds.” For me, a small area of virgin
ground that seems to want to stay that
way. So when my old car needed over-
hauling recently I steered it on to this
granite earth, and for the four weekends
the job occupied me I had a very obvious
excuse for not digging that ground. Then,
the day I finished tinkering with, the
engine and tried to start it, it burst into
flames. Great panic for a moment, and
then the fire was out, and my wife, com-
ing on to the scene, pointed significantly
at the ground. In what I’d claimed was
spadeproof soil, I’d dug down three
inches with my bare nails to get the
extinguishing material. Another pro-
crastogardener sunk.
* * * *
“Pandanus”: Bringing home the pic-
tures (B. 3/8/’49) recalls that, when I was
young and self-conscious, I was getting
through the Flinders-street crowds on a
Melbourne carnival day, with several
pictures from the Victorian Artists’ exhi-
bition under my arm, when I foolishly
put a bob on a street lottery-wheel. To
my horror I was landed with a large leg
of mutton, several yards of raw tripe and
some more of sausages—all naked. I
partly hid my prizes in an afternoon
paper, and then got round to Spencer-
street, with a minute to catch the Geelong
train. Mr. Officious at the gate said
“You’ll have to put that in the van.” I
yelped so irritably that he said “Oh, get
along with you.” So I got along with me
tripe, pictures and all, and that was my
only lottery luck from that day to this.
# * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: The passing of James
Madden at Hobart the other day removes
a link with a family of seamen of a kind
they no longer produce. Jim, who was
skipper of the ketch King Billy, was the
younger brother of Bill and George
Madden, formerly the best-known
skippers in Bass Strait shipping circles.
Though neither of them could sign their
own names they could read a compass
or the weather better than any admiral,
and for years, with special honorary
Board of Trade certificates, they com-
manded Union 'Steamship Company
vessels on the Melbourne-Macquarie
Harbor run to the terrible Hell’s Gates,
and the stories of them are legend. At
one time Bill was master of the crack
Strait ferry-steamer Loongana. His in-
ability to write was no handicap to him—
he could smell-his way anywhere. In ffie
1920’5, crossing the strait in the
little steamer Awaroa, we were caught in
a terrific sou’-westerly gale. The master,
old Bill Madden, made for the then un-
lighted Cape Wollamai, and inside the
headland he took us past the reef at Tea-
“Ten shillings — twenty .”
tree Point by lining up a sheoak-tree
with the top of a hill.* He been
in there then for 20-odd years.
* * * *
“Jasby”: The news that Leigh Creek
coal saved South Australian industry
from, the full impact of the coal strike
has a personal interest for me. In fact,
I feel that I am in some way entitled to
a* share of the thanks and gratitude of
South Australians for helping them
through the crisis. I might describe
myself as a pioneer by proxy, twice re-
moved. I’ve never seen Leigh Creek, but
I have in my possession a certificate, dated
28/10/1892, testifying that my father was
the owner of five one-pound shares in the
Leigh’s Creek Coal Mining Company.
He was living in Port Augusta at the time,
and Port Augustans in the ’nineties had
great faith in the future of the north
and of their own town’s importance to it.
They already had visions of rail links with
Perth and Darwin —the latter still only a
vision—and the more optimistic even saw
their seaport becoming the Federal
capital. The Leigh’s Creek company (the
placed owned an apostrophe “s” in those
days) was half a century ahead of its
time, and I don’t suppose there are any
of the original promoters alive today, but
time has vindicated their faith. I see
there is a move afoot to raise a testimonial
to the blokes who are working the mine.
In view of my contribution, by proxy, to
its development, I hereby stake my claim.
I’ll settle for a couple of hundredweight
of coal.
* * * *
“H.W.M.”: Damm a n s’ business,
started in 1854, cannot claim the honor
of being the oldest family establishment
in Melbourne (B. 3/ 8 / ’49). That goes to
Sleights, the undertakers, established
away back in 1839 and still in the family.
Lewis, another Melbourne undertaker,
started in 1843, and descendants are still
in the firm. Another point: Dammans’
corner was never known as Stewart
Dawson’s corner; it was Chambers and
Seymour’s corner. The Dawson corner
was on the opposite side of the street;
Dammans once occupied that, too.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: The quiz craze has spread
to the churches, and the Dean of Adelaide
doesn’t like it. When he heard that a
Granville (Sydney) parson was running a
Bible quiz in the church magazine, with
a £2 prize for anyone who can correctly
answer seven Biblical questions, he an-
nounced that he was “not interested in
parsons running stunts.” But surely the
Dean knows that in his own State Bible
quizzes with prizes have been held at
church socials for some years, and it was
inevitable that they’d get into church
magazines. Biblical questions frequently
appear in the big commercial radio
quizzes, and I’ll be astonished if one or
two don’t crop up in the next Common-
wealth Loan quiz. Though I’m with the
Dean if he holds that it shouldn’t be
necessary to hold quizzes to stimulate
interest in the Good Book, I’m afraid
the churches will have to “stunt” a little
if they’re to compete against the modern
competition that surrounds them.
* * * *
“BorO-Belle”: I was once paid double
face-value for a Bulletin cheque. It was
some years ago when the coaster
Peregrine, in addition to bringing to
Mackay (Q.) the southern mail contain-
ing a Bully cheque for 225. 6d., also
brought Fitzgerald Bros.’ circus. The
coincidence seemed to call for celebration,
so to ensure quick service at the circus
ticket-office I decided to cash the cheque,
and went to the Cosmopolitan Hotel, where
mine host was Patrick Maurice Hynes.
Old Hynes, himself a writer of topical
local verse, was Mayor of Mackay, and
the bar was full of aldermen just out
from a council meeting. He glanced at
Hop’s creation, grinned and passed it
round the bar. Then he stepped over to
his till and placed two sovereigns and two
half-crowns before me. I drew his atten-
tion to the double amount, but he smiled
and waved me aside. I don’t know
whether the extra 225. 6d. came out of
bar profits or the mayoral allowance, but
I feel sure it was a tribute from one
knight of the pen to another.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Melbourne’s pigeon prob-
lem remains unsolved. The blinking owl
having turned out to be a blinking
failure, the proud claim of the Pres-
ton tramways workshops that a chemical
container erected on the roof which lets
off a noisy explosion every 10 minutes
had proved effective aroused interest in
the city. Interest died, however, when
a Press protographer took a picture of
the device with a pigeon sitting quietly
on her nest sft. away.
* * * ♦
Without any medical sup-
port whatever, molasses has become
popular in South Africa as an alleged
cure for rheumatism. Australians suffer-
ing from corns, indigestion and cancer
have used molasses as a specific for the
past 30 years to my knowledge. One
woman used to ride a horse 30 miles
every two weeks to get a tin filled with
molasses fresh from the fugals at the
sugar-mill in which I worked, but her
patient, a cancer victim, and several
others for whom I did the same service
died despite their faith in its efficacy.
Some of the dyspeptics who took the
stuff are still alive, but on a strict diet,
and those who have faith in it as a corn-
cure are still limping painfully around
wondering why molasses, which, if left
long enough on a concrete floor, will
eat holes in it, won’t eat the corns off
their feet.
. * * * *
' “Melaleuca”: Milk strikes or the non-
delivery of milk shouldn’t trouble any-
one, even in a hard-pressed city. In
outback places where even to keep a
goat is an impossibility, I have thrived
on powdered-milk for the past 10 years.
The taste is slightly different, but un-
noticeable after a brief trial. Dried milk
has the advantage of being perfectly
clean on delivery, and it is inferior to the
fresh milk only in vitamin A—fresh milk,
anyway, contains little of that. Oranges
make up the deficiency. My kiddies are
as fair a sample of husky Australians as
could be met with, and they haven’t had
a serious illness between them yet.
♦ * * *
“Nakh”: Our rude forefathers would
probably be astounded to hear that a
solemn, not to say passionate, discussion
has been proceeding in Melbourne over
whether the shark, as well as the koala,
should be protected, A. D, Butcher,
director of the Fisheries and Game De-
partment, holding that more care should
be taken to preserve the shark-fisheries of
the country, and J. Muir, secretary of
the Victorian Professional Fishermen’s
League, maintaining the contrary view-
point. It wouldn’t be surprising if the
Animal Lovers’ League took up the ques-
tion and, in its inimitable way, surrounded
the one-time terror of the deep, and the
now most frequent marine visitor to the
Melbourne dinner-table, with an aura
of sanctity like the lyrebird. Viewed
objectively, the shark is as graceful, as
beautiful and as spontaneous a creature
as the kookaburra, and it is already as
impolite to call it by its right name in a
Melbourne cafe as to call for cat when
you want sausage.
* * * ♦
“W oody”: Army biscuits (B.
10/8/’49)? The Greeks had a beaut, an
all-day sucker about the size of a saucer
and as hard. When issued in Corinth
prison it was described as Hitler's secret
weapon. To eat it, unless it were soaked
in water or fried in oil, you placed one
side between the teeth and levered on the
other. Eventually something gave —some-
times the biscuit, more often the teeth.
One day a Jerry officer led a party
through our billet searching for weapons
or metal objects. He tapped, with his
bayonet a gas-respirator haversack which
emitted a definite clink. The “weapon”
was withdrawn —a biscuit.
COLLINS-STREET.
“A constable in Melbourne was surprised to see
a man striking a woman in Collins-street.”
• —News item.
In Little-Lon.,
In days agone,
The crooks, on nimble feet,
Oft dealt it out
In many a bout—
But not in Collins-street!
In Bourke-street toughs
And other roughs
Fought cops upon their beat;
Thugs of repute
Put in the boot—
But not in Collins-street I
In Lillee-Bourke
Night-owls would lurk
In lane and dark retreat,
And, for a joke,
Would bash a bloke —
But not in Collins-street!
In Flinders, too,
Fists often flew
When sailors used to meet;
Bloody the fights
That shook the nights —
But not in Collins-street!
In Collins —no!
Bad men don’t show,
They’ve always been discreet,
No brawls, no fights,
No kicks, no bites —
No, not in Collins-street!
VICTORIA.
HACKO.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: The death of old Rod
Quinn was noted in the daily papers with
the usual talk about his being one of the
“last of the bush balladists.” To us out-
backers who read him when we were
young about the last thing we would have
called him was a “bush balladistnot
only because he wasn’t a bushman, but
also because he didn’t write ballads. He
turned out acres of verses, some of it
being lyrical poetiy of good quality, much
of it being middling-good jingle, a lot of
it fair stuff for school magazines.
He was essentially a city man who
drew the inspiration for his best
writing from the creeks and gullies
around Sydney, and was conscious
of the lyric beauty of a wattle-clad slope
or the murmur of a stream hidden under
bracken. Of the real bush —the bush that
his friend Henry Lawson knew, of which
Patterson and Ogilvie wrote —he knew
little or nothing. I doubt if he was ever
on a horse, and he certainly never battled
the outback. Old Jim Gordon, who
died in the same week as Rod, was never
capable of the quality of either Rod’s
best poetry or his prose, but Jim’s verses
(he wrote as “Jim Grahame”) were true
outback stuff. Both men had their place
in what might, a century from now, be
regarded as Australian folklore writing,
but it is maddening to have Rod go to
his end described as something he never
was and never wished to be.
$ $
“B. A. Ker”: Because I’ve an inhibi-
tion carried over'from the days when we
used to turn our moke out in “the long
paddock” I wouldn’t have helped the
fellow if I had known he was the local
poundkeeper. After we’d adjusted the
rope-halter on the reluctant cow the old
chap divulged his office. I was aghast.
Not only was I a traitor, but I’d also
aided and abetted a felony. “You can’t
lead a beast to the pound,” I protested ;
“you’ve got to drive her—it’s the law.”
He looked at me with scorn. “It is not
“Yes, but what can you do with your fiddle but just play it?”
the law,” he declared. “And it never
was the law. But most bush-lawyers
thought it was. Good day,” He left me
with my mouth open. It was like discov-
ering that the sun rises in the west. Later
I found my old cobber squatting on his
heels, doing a bit of nature study. “How
many legs has a centipede got?” he
greeted me. “A hundred—that’s what
its name means ...” I began all
learnedly. “Yairs?” he interrupted.
“Come and have a go at counting ’em.”
It was the most difficult job imaginable.
Most other creatures could have been
killed first, then examined; but not a
’pede. The only way to kill him is to
grind him into a shapeless smear. So
with two small sticks holding the purple-
sheened body fore and aft I began count-
ing with a thin twig. The subject wasn’t
at all co-operative. At the first count I
made it 21 down one side ; the next time
23. But the final scores were 22 each
side, counting the minute ones near the
head a total of 44. Thus, the distinc-
tion we used to make between a centipede
and a “forty-legs”—the harmless little
brown creature whose moving legs al-
ways reminded me of an ancient galley—
didn’t have much margin. But the final
debunking of all accepted facts came as
we turned in the cobber’s gate. A “teen-
age” Leghorn rooster, showing off before
a bunch of chooks, suddenly made a rush
at a cocky little bantam rooster. And
the bantam rooster ran away, squarking
his fear!
♦ ♦ * *
“Cassius”: It is a good thing that only
a microscopic proportion of oyster
spawn reaches maturity (B. 15/6/’49),
but has “Mollusc” ever thought how man
has harnessed this blind and wasteful
urge of reproduction in the vegetable
world? Everyone knows how beans and
peas, for example, must be constantly
picked if they are to keep bearing. This
is only because of the insistent urge in-
side the plant to leave progeny behind it.
Leave the first pods unpicked and the
plant dies off, presumably happy at a
duty ably performed. Flowers, too,
bloom profusely only when their seeding
is prevented by constant cutting. But the
daddy of ajl amongst the grains is oats.
Cut oats at the top when it is at its
height of growth and it will throw out
more ears below the cuts. Cut these ears
off and still another attempt will be
made to seed. This process can be con-
tinued until the stubble is only a bare
2in. high, and even at that height I have
seen stalks desperately throwing out
feeble seeding-ears.
* * * *
Solitude”: There was 4ft. of snow
on the lower runs that are generally con-
sidered below the danger-line, and
Seventyfiver was flat out getting cattle
in. The nearer beasts were accounted for,
and, as the days passed, we gradually
worked further out. It was dusk when
I met the old bloke plodding mightily
along a far ridge. “Th-there’s a bunch
h-holed up in the head of a gully, ’bout
half a mile on,” he panted eagerly. “With
your nag to pack a trail we can get ’em
started out.” “Have to wait till morning
now,” ! decided. Seventyfiver gazed silently
into the colorless waste . behind him,
then followed reluctantly to the shelter
of a big rock, where, after much trouble,
we eventually started a fire. The blaze
soon melted the snow round about and
we bogged around in a dam of slush.
The old cove located a stone to perch
on, waded with it to the fire and, ignoring
his submerged feet and ankles, proceeded
to fill himself with week-old damper. In
every direction stretched mile on endless
mile of towering white peaks, eerie in
their stillness. For some time we sat
there, taking them in, the silence like an
austere presence. Then Seventyfiver
dragged his eyes off the skyline. “It ain’t
that dark, Sol,” he began. “There’ll be
a bit of a moon before long, and if we
kept t’ the ridges” “Got to get
through that saddle,” I cautioned. “Too
risky. We’ll wait for daylight.” “Yair,
but if we kept t’ the left a bit”
“No.” He heaved a sigh. “Awright,”
he agreed finally. “Awright. But cripes,
it don’t seem right, us sittin’ ’ere in com-
fort while them pore beasts is stranded
out in it all.”
* * * *
Historical Bloque”; In his Journal of
Two Expeditions of Discovery in North-
West and West Australia , Captain (later
Sir George) Grey says “One mistake
commonly made is to imagine that the
natives have small means of subsistence
mes § r£ atly pressed for want
of food. ’ “Colonial Cove” (B. 27/7/ ’49)
repeats that mistake. Grey even took
Captain Sturt to task for falling into the
same mistaken idea. “In all ordinary
seasons,” says the explorer, “the natives
can obtain in two or three hours a suffi-
cient supply of food for the day, but their
usual custom is to roam indolently from
spot to spot, lazily collecting it as they
wander along.” He listed an assortment
of food they had to choose from. These
“Damn it, man! Must you stop so suddenly?"
included kangaroo, fish, whale, seal, wild
dogs, turtle, emus, wild turkeys and birds
of every kind, opossum, frogs, fresh-
water and salt-water shellfish (except
oysters), four kinds of grubs, eggs of
every species of bird and lizard, five ani-
mals, something smaller in size than
rabbits, eight sorts of snake, seven of
“iguana,” nine species of mice and small
rats, 29 sorts of roots, as well as fungus,
gum, manna, by-yu, or the nut of the
zamia-palm, mesembryantheum, the
flower of several species of banksia, one
kind of earth which they pound and mix
with the roots of the mene, and the seeds
of several leguminous plants,” For primi-
tive people, allegedly starved, that is not
a bad menu to choose from.
# * * #
“Rooster”: Why is “Horseless Horse-
man” worrying about the effect of ancient
buried meat on his tripehounds (B.
Doesrf’t he know that bacteria
are airborne? Buried meat, provided
it was reasonably fresh prior to inter-'
ment, would remain free from these wogs.
Bacteria in the soil would soon get to
work on it, but their make-up is
different. They function as breaking-
down agents, and, although this is in-
variably accompanied by the release of
certain gases (hence the smell), the meat
is not diseased. Which explains why
buried meat, up to a certain interval of
time, always looks fresh. After that
interval decomposition gathers pace,
finally reducing the “foreign matter” to
a glutinous slime. As for the “ancient
fish on the beaches,” sea-brine is one of
the best natural preservatives. But no
dog will tackle ’em if maggots are present.
* * * *
“Plane Creek”: The unskilled trapper
can inflict horrible tortures on wallabies
(B. 3/8/’49). He invariably makes his
noose so large that the wallaby puts his
forelegs through. Caught round the
belly, the animal usually breaks the
snare loose from the fence and gets away
with the wire cutting into its flesh. The
newchum then goes about boasting that
the wallabies are so hefty and strong in
his territory that even snares won’t hold
’em. But this bloke, cruel though he is,
has nothing on the murderer who makes
“special” snares, by which I mean the
types that doom even chain-educated
dogs when they happen to blunder into
them.
* * * *
“Bo”: The little, apologetic-looking
man with the frayed-edged bowler-hat
was explaining at the farmhouse kitchen
door the object of his call. With a smile
of ineffable gentleness he indicated the
thick tome he had taken from a battered
attache case. “This beautiful book,” he
said, holding it up, “is one of a series of
ten volumes on the lives of the early
Christian martyrs. It is written,” he went
on in the regular tones of one who has
learnt it off parrot-fashion, “by world-
renowned authorities who have treated
their subject not only with great brilliance
but with loving care. It is especially in-
valuable for one such as yourself and for
your family whom circumstance has
robbed of the opportunity given those in
big cities of studying this fascinating sub-
ject in the great libraries. They will
afford endless pleasure as well as gratify
that deeply devotional spirit which is deep
down in all of us. The whole ten volumes
can be had for the ridiculously low de-
posit of a pound and the balance at ten
shillings a month with no interest”
It was at this point that the cocky inter-
rupted with a terse “Ain’t interested,”
while his dial plainly signalled the use-
lessness of further salesmanship. Back-
ing off to a safe distance, with a quick
look around to see if a dog was about,
the meek-looking little man snapped his
case shut, while the gentle look vanished.
“The trouble with blankards like you,”
he said, as he jammed his hat on hard and
made for the gate, “is that you haven’t
got a bit o’ blanky religion in y’!”
* * * *
“Pongo”: “Jock” (B. 6/7/’49) is look-
ing for a prematurely-cracked axe-handle
when he advises tacking a piece of cycle-
tyre near the head to absorb the shock
of mishits. Three layers of adhesive-
tape bound 6in. down the handle
from the head will absorb all shock, and
will save damage to the handle which
usually starts when something is tacked
on to it.
• • * «
“Mat’s Mate”: “I’m hangin’ round old
Bill Clarkson’s pub in North Murchison
one time,” Mat said, “an’ a bloke comes
up, buys me a drink an’ asks if I want a
job. I don’t, but when he tells me how
easy she is an’ it’s worth a fiver for about
three days’ work I has him on. He’s got
a btmrdin’-house, see, an’ he’s gettin’
some electricians t’ put lights in an’ he’s
got a plan of what he calls the wirin’ an’
he wants me t’ go round the walls an’ tap
holes in ’em so’s everything’ll be ready.
It’s a brick place with plaster walls, an’
all I got t’ do is take a hammer an’ punch
an’ knock little holes through where he
marks ’em. Biggest part was the dinin’-
room wall. He’s goin’ t’ have a lot o’
fancy lights in there an’ it means a cluster
o’ holes on one side. Well, when I get
goin’ it ain’t so easy, because I hafta keep
goin’ round through the door t’ the other
room t’ see the punch is cornin’ through
dead on the mark, see? Whoever built
that house couldn’t ha’ known much
about plasterin’ because be the time the
boss come t’ have a look I didn’t have t’
walk round through the door ; I could just
put me head through the hole. Yair, the
boss don© his nut, gimme a quid an’ told
me t’ clear out.”
* * * ♦
“Bam”: Such’s stiff-necked axeman (B.
15/6/’49) wasn’t so farfetched after all.
An old hand on Peeweena Station (S.A.)
years ago managed to do most of his jobs
satisfactorily, though he had bad eye-
sight, I came along as he was putting
the final cuts into a high bare stump. As
it began to crack he looked up to see
which way it was likely to fall. Only
then he discovered that the big-topped
tree he thought he was felling was still
standing intact beside him,
* * * *
“Horseless H.”: Sparrows have more
reasoning power than I gave them credit
for. At Diamond Creek (Vic.) the
browny-grey scavengers, which mostly
gain a living from fowlyard wheat, re-
cently began eating off young oat crops.
One cocky broadcast poisoned wheat
over his ploughed ground and collected
bucketfuls of dead spriggies. Yet the
contents of a bag of wheat since split in-
advertently along a near-by roadway has
been left untouched. The birds prefer
to scratch for their grain in the district’s
horse-mangers and fowl-troughs, where
they’re sure of it.
HELIOS.
(The Sun God.)
In Scotland you come as a charmer
To woodland and heath and sward;
But I can look back and remember
A land where you came in December
Equipped in your battle armor
And girt with a flaming sword.
Where the plains were wide to cross
With never a bush to shade
As we sat on our horses half asleep
Mile after mile behind the sheep
I can remember, Helios,
The bite of your burning blade!
Where, then, were your ’witching charms
When you met us in battle guise
And drove us the long day through
TT ,. l at h an arc h °f changeless blue,
With your brand on our naked arms
And the sweat running into our eyes?
Yet . when winter is dark and drear
na Roughs in the storm-wind toss,
When the snowflakes drift on the breeze
Or silver the leafless trees
There is one who could wish you here
In your war-dress, Helios!
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


“C.A.L.”: Jackhammer Joe and Bogger
Bill were proudly explaining to a few
mates gathered in their cubicle the work-
ing theory of their new “radiator” stand-
ing m the centre of. the floor. “You
see,” Joe said, “the iron shavings in this
kerosene-tin sets up such a resistance
when an electric current is passed through
them that they glow, just like the fila-
ment in an ordinary globe. From now
on, good-bye to all the cold nights in
this ice-chamber of a barracks. Switch
her on, Bill, and we’ll see how she works.”
Bill threw the switch ; there was a blind-
ing purple flash, and the single-men’s
quarters were plunged into darkness.
Over at the mine a cage-load of men
descending the shaft stopped suddenly
between two levels. In the plant, ball-
mills, grinders and all moving units were
brought to a halt, and complaining plant-
workers were ordered out into the bitter
night to turn the agitators by hand.
Meanwhile the puzzled head electrician,
torch in hand, was surveying burnt and
smoking fuses. Joe, Bill and the rest of
the company picked themselves up
gingerly from the floor. “Bet we split the
atom with that thing,” Joe said as they
threw the burnt and blackened tin and
contents away. “Yes,” Bill answered. “I
think we’ll stick to the old fire-bucket.
I’m getting married in a fortnight’s time
and it wouldn’t do to have too much
radioactivity around.”
* * * *
“Abney”; A Forestry Department
official, from the Burnett area, says
Queensland has no trees over 150 ft. in
height. Well, a narrow-leaved ironbark
(Eucalyptus crebrd) fallen by H. Preece,
at Sandy Creek, Samford, must have
come close to the mark. The tree stood
approximately 119 ft, to the first limb and
dressed to a pole of 113 ft., which is used
to carry power-wires across the Tweed
River at Chinderah (N.S.W.). The same
axeman recently felled at Palen Creek,
Ml. Lindsay, another ironbark which
stood 122 ft. to the lowest limb. From
this vegetable it is hoped to procure a
pole 120 ft. in length, which is not bad
by any standard.
* * * *
“Abdul”: First item I look for in my
Bulletin is good old “Bellerive’s” latest.
His epic of 27/7/’49 took me back 40
years to a cat-snake contest with a
happier ending. Veterans of old Mara-
thon (Q.) will remember the convincing
ground just outside the cook’s galley.
The jackeroo’s yell of “Fight on!”
brought the mob piling out from the
dinner-table. Mr. Blake, looking as
black, shiny and efficient as Jack Johnson
in his prime, had taken up a perfect
stance between the spokes of a dray-
wheel, with a firm toe-hold round the
bottom spoke. Puss was flat to the hard
bare ground and creeping up. steadily.
The combatants ignored the semicircle
crowding in, though Joe had a clear line
of retreat into a scrapheap, had he
chosen to squib. As the cat got within
range Joe led, but puss just swung her
head sufficiently to let his head brush her
cheek. Joe retracted to his stance like
a steel spring and puss crept an inch
closer. This continued deliberately for
“Come out and I'll show you who's king of the beasts!”
about six lunges, every one a near-miss.
Finally, Joe faltered a fraction on the re-
bound. Tibby didn’t need any lessons in
ringcraft to let her know this was her
moment. A split-second later she was
crunching the base of her opponent’s skull.
Joe heaved desperately for a, while before
taking the final count. Tibby had a
young family not far away, so she just
had to win.
* * ♦ *
“C.A.”: The water-supply was as low
as finances on the Simpkinses’ place, but
eventually a big new dam was built
behind the house. Hopes and spirits rose,
but the water level of the new dam didn’t.
For three years the rains left nothing
but a mpd puddle in the bottom; then
came an unusually wet season. Four
inches of rain were.followed a week later
by a further three, and before the month
was out another five were added. Water
poured into the new dam, and daily Dad
made progress reports. “Half-full now,
Mum,” he announced with a grin. “Still
risin’.” “Three-parts this mornin’, Mum,”
came the news a few days later, “No
shortage this summer. Gripes, y’ll be
able t’ water y’r garden even, I reckon.”
Mum beamed. The rain kept coming.
After a deluge that lasted through the
night. Dad once more presented himself
at the kitchen door. The rain had cleared
off now, and the sun was shining. “Y’
know the new dam, Mum?” She looked
up from the well-thumbed seed catalogue.
“Yes, yes, is it . . . Did it get full up,
Dad?” “Yair, I reckon it did,” he re-
plied, with the air of a Stoic. “Full right
up t’ the flamin’ brim it must ’a’ been
before the lower bank give way an’
emptied it all out again.”
* * *• *
“Ben Acre”: “The reason wet sheep
are not shorn is that the wet wool clogs
the machine,” says Brief Answers (B.
20/7/’49). No, sir! And I have missed
working in a woolshed only one season
since 1926. The reason why shearers
won’t shear wet sheep is that it renders
them liable to any complaint that can be
caused by a chill. Some argue that if
he changes his clothes immediately, and
every time, he ceases work he will not be
affected, but only a shearer anxious to
make money will take wet sheep. Wet
wool, if pressed or packed tightly, will
heat up and catch fire. The classer has
power to stop shearing if the wool is too
wet to be handled. Special equipment
would be required to dry*the wool from
even -ah hour’s shearing by a small team.
The most reasonable place to dry it is
on the sheep. The effect on the machine
is that it keeps very clean, and might run
hot because of the lack of wool-yolk on
the comb. The yolk helps lubrication.
Wool clogging the machine? Some
shearers leave a certain amount of wool-
fluff in the machine to hold oil and act
as a wick-oiler.
* * * *
“Taswegian”: At Scottsdale (Tas.) a
new type of earth-mover was recently
used to clean out a concrete pipe that had
been blocked with earth and sand after
heavy rain. The beauty of this particular
equipment is that' it involves no dollars
for capital expenditure, and costs prac-
tically nothing to run —what little fuel it
requires is indigenous. Moreover, it re-
quires no driver. If any mainland shire
council is interested in obtaining this
cheap but efficient mechanism they need
merely invest in an echidna, known
commonly but incorrectly as the porcu-
pine. .
*♦* ; «
“Nor’-west”: Regarding the toredo-
resistant properties of Californian red-
wood and pitch-pine, let me assure “Hell-
dud” (B. 20/7/’49) that I speak from ex-
perience, having run a boat with pitch-
pine keel and redwood planking in some
of the most infested waters of the west;
waters where jarrah and the iron-hard
tuart were just pie to the toredo. Any-
way, to draw an analogy from termites
to toredos is absurd. Even pitch-pine
long exposed to atmospheric influences
will lose its immunity, which resides in
the turpentine that it contains; being a
volatile spirit, turpentine slowly evapor-
ates. In my various habitations and works
I have never seen genuine pitch-pine
attacked by termites; the same applies to
redwood. And W.A. and the NT. know
more about termite appetite than the
eastern part of the continent ever dreamed
of. But don’t confuse redwood with red-
pine. Both come from U.S.A., and both
are red, the pine even being tolerably
free from knots, and thus often passed
off as redwood. Redwood ( sequoia ) is a
native of the Pacific slope. Red-pine
( P. resinosa) grows mostly in Minnesota
and Wisconsin; an excellent timber
largely used as flooring in an earlier Aus-
tralia.
**’ * *
“Zake”: The old hatter was going
around inspecting the dead trees in the
paddock. One he came across had a big
hole some feet up the trunk and several
hollow spouts in some of the limbs.
“That’s the one I’ll put the end o’ me
kipsy against,” he said. “But that won’t
give you any shelter,” said the other
hatter who camped in the next paddock.
“Who’s talking about shelter!” exclaimed
the first haitter. “That holler in the
trunk’ll save me building a chimney, won’t
it?”
• * * * *
“Blime”: The number of entries in
each event ruled out place-bets at the
bush meeting, and with only three or
four to a race some horses appeared to
be having as much trouble to lose as the
others were to win. I’d plunged mildly
a few times, when some silly cow thought
he had the oil, and was waiting around
for the last race when Dill dragged me
aside. He was in a dither of excitement
and mystery. “Got any money on y’?”
he asked breathlessly. “Hardly likely at
this time o’ day,” I returned, beginning a
systematic search. “How much do you
want?” “All y’ve got,” he answered,
grabbing my last ten bob and stray bits
of silver. “I got a scheme. Don’t let
on. Can’t lose. This makes nine quid
I’ve borrered, an’ I might get some more
yet. Only two nags in the last race,” he
whispered, “an’ they’re both tryin’.
One of ’em’s sure t’ win. I’m
backin’ ’em both, puttin’ the same on
each. Diff’rent bookies, o’ course, so
they won’t wake up t’ me.” “But, what’s
their price?” I asked “Eh?” he grinned.
“Aw, they’re odds on or somethin’. They
was takin’ five t’ two a minute ago, but
I better hurry back afore they close up
on one of ’em. See y’ later, when I
c’llect.”
**. * *
“Horseless Horseman”: As a lad I had
been helping to punch drought-starved
sheep around the Gulf of Carpentaria
for tjiree months and I reckoned I was
a real drover. Then one sundown the
station manager picked me up in a Ford
T utility, and, on the long trip home
down the Flinders, we made the camp of
another station drover whose mob had
got away from him through a dingo get-
ting in the brake. What was left of the
mob had been mustered only that day,
and both horses and men were knocked
up. With fires lit around the brushyard
to keep the warrigals off, I settled down
on my swag, but a light shower during
the early hours drove me into the truck.
The next I knew was being vaguely con-
scious of a strange row. In the glow of
the fires I could see sheep hurdling the
brush and men rushing and yelling. Then
I realised the boss-drover was shaking me
and calling me something which nearly
brought the bark off the trees. Yes, I, the
newchum, had caused the panic with my
elbow resting on the horn of the truck.
HERE COMES AN OLD SOLDIER
FROM BOTANY BAY.
Soldier, old soldier from Botany Bay,
With your tom red coat and your hair turned
grey,
And your glazing green eye at the break of day,
What have you brought us from Botany Bay?
A tale of a land that’s woman-strange,'
Of trees that never with seasons change,
Of gold in the shoulders of the range,
Of the lives we paid for that land’s exchange.
I sailed with the Fourth Foot —the ruddy King’s
Own.
Sniff the ebb-tide stench off Pinchgut, with
rations running low.
Hear the harbor mutter of the waves inshore,
See the yellow, yellow wattles down below.
Oh the flies, and the filth, and, the singing in
the shanties,
December sun torturing an everlasting thirst,
The lags beating time with the clanking of their
irons,
While three of ’em escaped, and the guard-
room cursed.
The drums they beat to quarters and the guard
turned out,
The fires they were lit from the mountains to
the coast,
We caught one for the triangles and laid his
innards out,
The others never showed their heels, we wrote
’em off as lost.
The crash and the roar of the trees felled to
earth,
The bunyips calling devils from the swamps,
The blacks moving backward, ever backward
in the night,
And the blue, smoke-spun rumor of their
camps.
Murder by the flats where the rusheutters
thatch,
And laughter <pn the cove by the farm
Where a convict works out freedom, sweating
to the plough.
And parrots ride a northerly that’s warm..,
L!l ac * a , rare liberty in those chains of exile,
Where the snow never falls, night or day.
For the whalers, and the brawlers, and the
currency crawlers,
Its a sick heart I’m having for Botany Bay!
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.
PADIO ROUSEABOUT
Stopping a shaft
revolving at, say,
30,000 revolutions
a minute to
examine play or
some other
peculiar behaviour
in a bearing without reducing the speed
may seem plain silly—but this is exactly
what a new electronic tube developed by
the Mullard English laboratories can do.
This LSDB stroboscopic tube can be
regulated to flash at anything up to
30,000 times a minute, thereby illuminat-
ing a shaft or such like turning at the
same speed as though it were stationary.
Its uses are many in science and industry,
and Australian manufacturers are co-
operating with Engineers of the Aus-
tralian Mullard Company in producing
various kinds of ancillary stroboscopic
equipment to put this amazing device to
work in Australia,
* * * *
Just heard of a novel use for the new
Mullard portable radio from one of dur
dealers up in Queensland. An exhibitor
in the horse section of the Brisbane Show
used the portable to condition a young
colt, that had never been off the property,
to all the sounds likely to stir him up in
the Show Ring. He hung the Mullard
on the fence of the colt’s paddock on the
first day, and left it playing softly for
an hour or so —and on the rails of the
adjacent yard the second day. By the
end of the week he was carrying it around
on the saddle playing brass bands and
announcers at full blast. (One day that
dealer fellow is going to write and tell-
us that they bought the colt a Mullard
Radio-gramophone combination out of
his winnings at the Show and his favorite
ditty is “Don’t fence me in”).
* * * *
The chap who was credited with being
the father of television, Logie Baird,
really was about the first to work it out
in a practical way and the valves and
.picture tubes that he used in his early
jobs were made by the English Mullard
Company well before the last war. Baird
the inventor has passed away meanwhile,
but the Company bearing his name is still
doing business in television in England.
* * * *
To make modern motion pictures,
sound was added to sight after 25 years
of silents, and now after about 25 years
of sound in radio we are adding sight to
make television. That about squares the
deal —or does it? One thing is certain —
television won’t by any means oust radio
as talkies did the “silents.” No, Sir—broad-
cast programmes and radio receivers will
improve out of sight to compete with the
limited television programmes that will
be ours for many a day. Safe to say that
more radio receivers have yet to be sold
in Australia than have ever been sold
before!
* * * *
Bill from Battery Flat sparks up again:
“Seen some firm advertising in the Sydney
papers that the radios now sold by them have
a connection provided for television at no extra
cost —what’s the strength of this?”
To which query from Bill we reply as
follows:
This seems like boloney to us, and would be
equivalent to some bloke trying to tell you that
he would sell you a horse and buggy with
provision for motoring at no extra cost! Stick
to well-known brand names. Bill, whether you
are buying a new radio now or a television set
in the future, particularly if they are World
Famous. They can’t afford to go in for boloney
like this.— advt.


ẃ
What special knowledge must your trustee possess?
FINANCE;
INVESTMENT;
MANAGEMENT:
Has he an expert knowledge of
finance and the wise use of income?
Does he understand investments?
Can he exercise impartial judgment?
Is he alert to markets and trends?
Has he had a wide experience in the
management of properties and
estates ?
ẅ
w
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd. brings to trusteeship and estate administration an
expert knowledge gained by the successful handling of thousands of estates. Its services “go on forever,”
are continuously available. Ample security is given for the performance of trusts. Consult your solicitor,
or write for Free Booklet.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
BOARD OP DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
ŵ
NEW SOUTH WAXES DIRECTORS;
Dr. H. J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.R.A.C.P. (Chairman) I
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead. K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.0., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., X.X.8., K.C.
N.B.W. Manager: C. B. K. Cowdery.
the WILDAL COUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
1939.. 262,910 7.1p.c.= 141,667 30,000 2,365,909
1940.. 264,157 7.1 „ ~141,667 35,000 2,368,705
1941.. 258,110 7.1 ~ ~141,667 85,000 2,365,464
1942.. 241,813 6.6 „ ~133,333 25,000 2,364,240
1943.. 241,553 6.6 „ ~133,383 25,000 2,362,766
1944.. 247,025 6.6 „„ 133,338 25,000 2,366,764
1945.. 252,423 7.1 „„ 141,667 25,000 2,367,826
1946.. 262,185 7.5 „ ~150,000 25,000 2,370,317
1947. . 283,173 8 ~,,160,000 35,000 2,373,796
1948.. 300,798 9 ~,,180,000 35,000 2,374,900
1949.. 320,636 10 ~,, 200,000 35,000 2,375,842
* In addition, there has been a regular preference
dividend of 4 p.c. (£84,694) each year.
About banking shares the market is un-
decided. After a' little flutter when the
Privy Council rejected the plea for nation-
alisation, they have settled back on the
old perches, or even lower. A specially
sharp rise in Union Bank scrip seemed
to betoken new confidence in the merger
with Australasia, but even Union has
since drifted back towards its guaranteed
minimum price. In every case trading
has been restricted to a few light
skirmishes (enough, however, to discount
suggestions that some shares had risen
above their “floor price” mainly through
speculation on their break-up value).
Generally the market feels inclined to
wait as it ponders the various possibilities.
The Privy Council, by its unusual
gesture of giving the verdict before a de-
tailed judgment was available, no doubt
intended to end the uncertainties that this
case has raised far beyond the realms of
banking. But our standards of public
life being what they are, the full judg-
ment must yet undergo searching inspec-
tion for loopholes; and if the Constitu-
tion provides no loopholes, the next crux
will be the Government’s decision
whether or not to acknowledge the rule of
law. Here questions of electoral strategy
will take up the story, and it may end
only with the elections themselves.
The sharemarket notes also that,
whether nationalised or not, the banks’
earning-ability remains shackled, largely
for political purposes, by the 1945 Act.
It is a commonplace that banks have an
obligation to conduct their business not
merely for immediate profits, but with
regard to the national interest (which is
their own interest). The reins of advance-
policy need tightening when the demand
for credit becomes over-strong in a boom,
and relaxing when the outlook is more
depressed. In this contrapuntal work the
central bank would have an unquestioned
role if its assistance were given disinter-
estedly and in good faith. But the present
directives are coming from a central
bank that stands exempted from its own
precepts ; since 1946 the ratio of the Com-
monwealth Bank’s advances to deposits
has risen from 40 p.c. to 82 p.c. (exclud-
ing central-bank business), while it
allowed such a bank as the Commercial
of Australia to lift the ratio only from
34 p.c. to 47 p.c. It is the instrument of
a Government whose financial methods
have done more than any banking system
could to inflate the economy.
On the market. Commercial ordinary
scrip now offers a yield of 4.3 p.c., which
is about standard for the banks at present.
These 10s. shares had advanced from the
guaranteed “floor” of 21s. 9d. to about
235. 6d. just before the London verdict;
then they rose slightly, but have come
back to 235. Two successive lifts in the
dividend had helped their advance since
1947. The present 10 p.c. actually means
only half that rate for most of the ords.
(over four-fifths), which were issued at
a 100 p.c. premium. And that dividend
was paid after more than half the co.’s
capital (that is, the £2,117,350 preference
scrip) had got a bare 4 p.c. On total
shareholders’ funds, the profit of £320,636
before depreciation represents less than
5 p.c.
Gross profits improved by £318,042
last year, amounting to £2,686,903 after
something was put away for contin-
gencies. Higher expenses (up £283,393)
and tax (up £14,813) left the declared
profit £19,838 better than in 1948. '
Explanation of the better gross figure
is seen in the £11,046,464 rise in advances,
which was accompanied by a growth of
£16,030,956 in.deposits, thanks to good
export returns and other incomes of cus-
tomers ;
Paid capital— 1939. 1948. 1949.
Preference .. £2,117,350 £2,117,350 £2,117,350
Ordinary ~ 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Deposits, tax and
contingency pro-
visions . . 32,507,947 93,331,322 109,362,278
Owed to other banks 9,143 89,676 8,094,103
Liquid assets .. 12,557,459 25,916,221 29,999,781
Deposits with Com-
monwealth Bank 31,548,000 35,448,000
Advances .. 25,305,740 40,973,642 52,020,006
Bank premises.. 1,260,684 1,559,935 1,629,286
Compulsory loans to the Commonwealth
Bank absorbed £3,900,000 of the new de-
posits, The big rise of £3,054,425 in
balances owing to other banks probably
means that the Commercial has had to
apply to the central bank for about that
much of its own money, paying 3.5 p.c.
interest for funds deposited at 0.5 p.c.
The 10s. ords. have net asset backing
of 21s. 9d. on book-values. The 4 p.c.
preference scrip (cumulative to 3 p.c.) has
threefold asset cover; these £lO shares
are currently priced at £ll each, yielding
3.6 p.c.
Industrial Acceptance Corporation
Still rather a stranger to investors, this
big 20-year-old financier joined the Mel-
bourne stock-list in December, after a
preference issue at par and a placement
of one-third of its ordinary scrip for
which newcomers paid a 120 p.c. premium
to the former holders. Since then the
market has usually concurred with that
premium. At 11s. each, the ss. ords.
offer a yield of 5.7 p.c. on the basis of
last year’s \l\ p.c. dividend. While that
distribution seems to be much higher
than anything previously paid for several
years at least, it was well covered by
the last declared profit, and the chances
appear good for a repetition in the present
term.
Industrial Acceptance has developed
rapidly since it was formed in 1929 with
£lOO,OOO paid capital to take over a busi-
ness set up three years previously by
Americans. From the Melbourne head-
quarters it branched out to all States,
gathering a clientele of motor, furniture
and refrigerator suppliers whose products
it buys for reletting on hire-purchase.
Two Sydney clients with whom its board
interlocks are York Motors and Bebar-
falds.
Just before the conversion to a listed
company last year, capital was increased
from £500,000 to £1,000,000; the £1 shares
were split into ss. units and apparently
there was some “special dividend” to old
shareholders. Thereupon the public was
offered and took H million of the ss.
shares at 11s. apiece. There was an issue
of 225,000 5 p.c. prefs, of £l, followed
by a further 275,000 last May, which
takes paid capital to £1,500,000.
So far there is not a great deal of in-
formation to assess a “normal” earning
rate for the business. Profits before the
conversion were earned under different
tax conditions, and even when corrected
for present rates the figures were abnor-
mally depressed by waff restrictions upon
credit sales; likewise, present figures are
exceptionally buoyant because of the
booming trade in furniture and British
cars. Adjusted profits quoted last
December, after public-co. tax, had risen
from £34,497 in 1944 (representing 6.9
p.c. on capital then) to £82,759 in 1947
(16.5 p.c.). For the term ended December
31 last, the figure jumped to £215,598,
after allowing £121,000 for tax, and repre-
sented 21,5 p.c. on capital of £1,000,000.
After paying a \2% p.c. div., that left
£90,598 for addition to reserves.
The term ended with £2,104,000 more
hire-purchase business on the books than
at the beginning. These advances totalled
£5,471,217, of which about one-third was
financed, with shareholders’ funds, the rest
by outside creditors, including the large
overdraft of £2,896,814 from the E., S.
and A. Bank;
—December 31
Paid capital 1947. 1948.
Ordinary .. . . . £500,000 £1,000,000
Preference .. .. . . 225,000
Reserves .. . . .. 268,192 407,986
Bank overdraft .. .. 2,072,667 .2,896,814
Clients’ credits .. .. 524,113 1 760,247
Other creditors and deposits 108,694 28,100
Tax provision.. .. ■ ) 5 102,200
Insurance provision .. J ii/,000 } 125, 000
Hire-purchase debtors.. \ „ J 5,471,217
Other debtors.. .. ] 3 .430,755 } 53,522
Furniture, fittings .. .. 40,571 27,635
Shares in subsidiary cos. .. 180,146 128,071
Cash .. 2,085 437
Intangible assets .. .. 11,600
With so much new business to kick off
with, this year should turn in another
good profit. Further ahead, the outlook
may be more restrained, but the co.
doesn’t seem to be overcapitalised and
could trim its sails by smaller credit
accommodation.
A full year’s pref. dividend will take
£25,000 (about half that much this year).
The prefs. are covered nearly four times
by net assets and yield 4.7 p.c. at the
current price of 21s. 3d. (old shares).
Motors, Ltd.
April 30, Profits. Dividends. Reserves.
£ p.c. £ £
1939 .. 5,124 8J 6,562 5,536
1940 .. 1,181 2* 1,875 4,842
Losses.
1941 .. 1,358 Nil Nil 3,484
1942 , . 1,089 Nil Nil 2,445
Profits.
1943 .. 929 Nil Nil .3,374
1944 .. 484 Nil Nil 3,858
Loss.
1945 .. 286 Nil Nil 3,572
Profits,
1946 .. 3,262 Nil Nil 6,834
Unexplained addition to reserves,
£8429 10,263
1947 .. 5,770 5 3,750 12,288
Unexplained reduction in re-
serves, £3937 ~ ~ 8,846
1948 .. 14,818 12J 11,250 11,914 #
1949 .. 42,703 20 20,000 84,617
Another company to take a joyride on
British cars since the war is the Adelaide
business of Motors, Ltd. It has the S.A.
franchise for Morris and M.G. cars and
trucks, and though that is nominally
only a part of the business, it entirely
accounts for last year’s jump in profits.
The big Nuffield export drive has been
providing a good flow of vehicles for the
last 18 months, taking advantage of the
absence of U.S. models from the Aus-
tralian market. Motors, Ltd., itself holds
the S.A. franchise for Hudsons, but these
are only trickling through the dol-
lar sieve, and the chances are that sup-
plies will fall, if anything. Mean-
while Nuffield lines can be expected in
still better quantity, especially when the
new body-building plant in Sydney starts
operating next year.
The question for Motors, Ltd., thus
mainly relates to the future demand for
British cars. The present blaze of pros-
perity must be as unfamiliar as it is
welcome to shareholders after their 20
years’ wait in the cold. Since it was
formed in 1925, the co. has seldom known
normal trading conditions. Business was
just reviving from the 1930 slump
when war cut off vehicle imports, and the
second recovery dates only from 1948.
With booming turnover it has not been
difficult to cut the expense rate ; this fell
from 64 p.c. to 54 p.c. last term. After
a trebled tax allowance net profit repre-
sented 42 p.c. on capital:
1948, 1949.
Gross profits .. .. .. £70,804 £161,454
Less —
Expenses and depreciation 45,004 88,751
Income-tax .. .. 10,482 80,000
Net profit .. .. .. 14,818 42,703
Barely half the net profit was distributed ;
the board used the balance, together with
£38,500 extra credits, in order to carry
£50,206 more stocks. Fixed assets in-
creased by a net £3957 after being writ-
ten down by £3174:
1939. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. .. £75,000 £lOO,OOO £lOO,OOO
Overdraft, etc... .. 43,179 26,624 15,585
Creditors .. ... 17,657 15,258 82,874
Tax provision .. . . 1,600 81,600
Freeholds .. .. 51,761 49,473 61,071
Plant 3,862 16,066 18,424
Stocks 50,878 71,388 121,594
Investments, cash .. 5,000 5,000
Freeholds include the Flinders-street
(Adelaide) showroom and the service-
station in Gilbert-street.
Motors, Ltd., is entering a new field
this year, as it takes over the State agency
for Electrice refrigerators and domestic
appliances (made in Sydney by a
member of the E.M.A.I.L. family). The
post-war boom is fading for these pro-
ducts, but they should make a valuable
steady adjunct to the car trade. The
chairman says vehicle orders on hand
will represent (if firm) about two years’
deliveries at last year’s rate.
The sharemarket heavily discounts the
maintenance of a 20 p.c. dividend. At
that rate the £1 shares bought at the
current 325. 6d, would yield 12.3 p.c.;
or better than 6 p.c. if the dividend is
halved. The scrip has net asset backing
of 265. 9d. (allowing nothing for fran-
chises), and is rather closely held.
Union Theatres (Victoria), Ltd.
, Dividends
March 81, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1989 .. 8,370 2 Nil 5,00 0 27,639
1940 . . 7,552 2 Nil 6,000 30,191
1941 . . 6,799 2 Nil 5,00 0 31,990
Reorganisation; Reserves cut by
£30,000 to write down freeholds;
pref. capital converted to ordinary,
and previous ordinaries cancelled.. 1,990
1942 .. 5,095 2 6,000 2,085
1948 .. 5,363 2 5,000 2,448
194 4 .. 5,08 6 2 5,00 0 2,584
194 5 .. 4,9 1 9 2 5,00 0 2,453
1946 .. 5,008 2 6,000 2,461
1947 .. 7,599 3 7,500 2,560
1948 . . 7,655 3 7,600 2,715
1949 .. 7,798 3 7,500 8,013
Present lease of this company’s State
Theatre in Melbourne to the exhibitors,
Greater Union Theatres, Ltd., will expire
in about two years’ time. Questions
naturally arise as to the chances of a
more favorable renting arrangement after
that date, or of a possible outright sale
of the theatre. The current rent of
£20,800 a year was fixed in depression
days and renewed at a dark stage of the
war. As for capital values, the board
estimated in 1941 that the theatre was
worth £280,000; if that could be realised
today, it would leave a net 15s. or so for
each share. But neither question has been
discussed recently by the board, and the
sharemarket’s attitude is not very hopeful,
latest price of the pound shares being
about 10s. 6d. each.
The company had a disastrous start
after it was floated in 1929 by the old
Union Theatres, Ltd., which proposed to
pay £42,000 a year rent on the theatre
and to guarantee an 8 p.c. cumulative diy.
for the £250,000 preference scrip of this
co. The theatre was barely completed
(at a cost exceeding estimates by
£110,000), when the slump sent Union
Theatres into liquidation, taking the
guarantee with it. From its ashes arose
Greater Union Theatres, which took over
the lease of the State at half the former
rent, and agreed to forgo its ordinary-
share interest in Union Theatres (Vic.).
That left the unfortunate pref.-holders
in full control of this co., and their scrip
was converted to ordinary in 1941. De-
spite two fairly drastic reorganisations
the co. is still overcapitalised, and the
freehold remains at the top-heavy figure
of £358,920 in the books:
1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. .. £250,000 £250,000
Mortgage .. .. 90,000 90,000
Creditors and tax .. 5,017 6,824
Depreciation provision 12,500 12,500
State Theatre .. 358,920 358,920
Cash, bonds .. .. 8,812 10,917
The State, which constitutes the only
revenue-producer for Union Theatres
(Vic.), is subject to a £90,000 mortgage
from the T, and G., requiring £3BOO a
year for interest. Rates, land taxes anc
insurance take about £5500 a year; and
after paying £2972 income tax last term,
the co. showed a net profit of £7798 from
its gross rent receipts of £20,800. As in
the two previous years, the board was
just able to meet a 3 p.c. dividend —anc
under the present arrangements nothing
better can be expected. On that dividenc
the yield is 5.7 p.c. from shares bought a:
10s. 6d. each.


THAT
*
The
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that year
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesfmg booklet.
„ DIRECTORS:
J° se Ph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office; 7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BP2-49
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—*
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies;—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.I.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Marks.— Advt.
Cigarette Lighter Service
We stock spare parts for every well-
known make of Cigarette Lighter.
Send your defective lighter to us.
Repairs returned post free to any
address in the Commonwealth.
BOLLS RAZOR CO. OF AUST.
PTY., LTD.,
8a Castlereagh St., Sydney. BW 2038.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO AUGUSTUS PETERS (formerly of
Stockton).—TAKE NOTICE that STELLA
MARY DENISE PETERS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3498 of 1948 on
the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
4th of November 1949 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
MESSRS. JOHNSON & O’NEILL, 69
Hunter Street, Sydney, or their Agents,
SHAW, McDonald & CO., 110 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney. —(l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
ẁ
INSULATE
your home
AGAINST EXCESSIVE HEAT OR COLD
WHEN YOU BUILD WITH
8.1. SLAGWOOL
61. GRANULATED
SLAG WOOI
r* i
WISE home planners
everywhere are
specifying B, I. SLAG-
WOOL Insulation because
they not only get better
results, but they save
money too.
Call, write or
phone for par •
ticulars of B. /.
Slagwool Insu •
lotion before
you buildt
ẃ
Gold in Victoria
List of Victorian gold-pro-
ducers in 1948 was again headed
by A 1 Consolidated Gold, NX.,
and the runner-up was its neigh-
bor in the Beechworth district,
Morning Star (G.M.A.) Mines,
NX. These two accounted for
about 40 p.c. of the State’s out-
put, which was 68,580 fine
ounces —a drop of 16,1290 z.
from 1947, and only about 38
p.c. of production in 1940. The
main producers last year are
listed as follows in the annual
report just issued by the State’s
Department of Mines:
Fine Oz.
Al (Consolidated .. .. 15,5X2
Morning Star .. .. .. 11,805
Wattle Gully G.M 9,168
North Deborah Mining ~ .. 8,398
Maude and Yellow Girl.. ~ 4,109
Harrietville (Tronoh) .. ~ 8,191
Cock’s Eldorado .. .. .. 2,933
Last two are dredging cos., and
altogether this method provided
13,0570 z. of the State output.
Al Consolidated treated
11,260 tons of ore and 91
tons of concentrates to get
15,5120 z. of gold, sloping being
from the Victory and No. 2
M.F. reefs. Morning Star,
which developed high-grade ore
in the Achilles and Stirling
floors, treated 14,522 tons for
its yield of 11,8050 z. Wattle
Gully had to crush 21,363 tons
for its 91580 z., while North De-
borah put through 13,935 tons.
Not enough exploratory work
is going on for any expansion
of goldmining, the report says,
although the Department pur-
sued its policy of advancing in-
terest-free money to cos. and
syndicates for development
work. Further shaft-sinking at
Bendigo (where North Deborah
is still the main producer) was
sponsored in this way last year.
Very little crushing was per-
formed at the State batteries in
1948, but repairs are in hand to
render them more helpful to
prospectors; the cyanide plants
remained inoperative.
With mining costs doubled
since 1938 and the labor force
reduced from 6315 to 1064
miners, the Department foresees
a still further “deep recession
unless assistance comes quickly
either by way of general subsi-
dies or a substantial increase in
the price of gold.” The matter
was taken up by Premiers Holl-
way (Vic.) and McLarty (W.A.)
at the Premiers’ Conference lasi
week, but the Prime Minister
turned down requests for special
grants to the States for the goto
industry. Mr. Chifley said the
price of gold would come up for
consideration by the Inter-
national Monetary Fund in
September.
Tennant Creek (N.T.) con-
tinues as one of the rare spots
for new prospecting business.
Two options there, Fassifera
and Jubilee Extended, have been
taken up by Coolgardie Pros-
pecting Co., NX., which has
ceased operating on the Cool-
gardie field. Also, the Peko
mine, previously under option to
Carbonate Lead Syndicate of
Adelaide, is to be worked by
Peko (Tennant Creek) Gold
Mines, NX.; this co. will shortly
issue 600,000 half-crown shares
to the public. Carbonate Lead’s
option at Peko lapsed after the
syndicate had trouble with Capi-
tal Issues Control.


M
3&S
*
i*'
AtAN
marsh
SHA>*
rEX
gr^ s
mm
so**>
A
mm
*
Ma '
CfOST famous writers start
•*•*■*■ writing as a side-line. The
urge to write—the welcome additional
income-the prestige and indepen-
dence it promotes—these are factors
which cannot be resisted by even
the youngest student.
Ninety-eight per cent of our success-
ful students began this way. When
strong enough, their side-line became
their life-line.
You, too, may take your place in the
ranks—step on to literary fame.
The famous A.S.J. (course compiled by famous
writers as pictured at left ) invites you to submit
your literary work for expert analysis —
w " mn (is \i
Individual Coaching Also Available
to Approved' Applicants Only . . .
AUSTRALIAN SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM
80 SWANSTON STREET, MELBOURNE
I enclose herewith an example of my work for your free eriti-
cism and would like free informative literature concerning new
publication, "The Australian Writer’* Market."
NAME
-IMr., Mrs. or Misti
NELLIE STEWART
M.A., Dip. Ed.
ADDRESS..
.....STATE...
I endow sd. tor postage for free prospectus with details of
A.S.J. Entrance Examination and Literary Course,
Bul. 24.8/49
R.S.V.P
/&
lAL
HOSP
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL
HOSPITAL
BRANDY
NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRIBUTORS, TOOTH & CO., LIMITED
BRANDY lends distinction to
your hospitality. The host who
serves TOLLEY’S pays a high
tribute to his guests —and his
own excellent taste.
Business.Rolleuy.Etc.
The Way Ahead
Prime Minister Chifley has
had a long run as leader of the
Australian Government partly
because post-war conditions have
assisted in creating an illusive
form of “prosperity” and partly
because he has been able to rely
on something which for years
has not let him down —the fact
that, in many things, the public
have short memories. He may
not be able to rely on any short-
ness of memory so far as the
recent coal strike is concerned,
and it could be that this strike, a
major industrial and “Labor”-
political upheaval, will mark the
beginning of a new era in the
Australian political economy. It
was such a wicked, wanton
strike, the action of Chifley-
pampered Communists and their
fellow-travellers, that the com-
plete futility of sponsoring an-
other term of Chifley Socialism
may become obvious at last to
the voting majority of the
people of Australia. It has been
the “Labor” party almost as
much as the Communists that has
fostered class - friction and
encouraged excessive and unat-
tainable demands by the trade-
union movement.
If the public really has by this
time had enough of Socialism
and Communism —has become
aware that we must work harder
if we want a better living
standard, and that incentives
are necessary to harder work—
then perhaps we are approaching
a period of sensible attention to
the real problems of this country.
There is no doubt that the
Chifley Government and the
Com.-infested trade-union move-
ment have been a baffling ob-.
struction to any attempt to “get
on with the job” in the post-war
years. The work that has
needed doing—the housing, the
road and transport overhaul, the
industrial and rural expansion—
has been obstructed by Socialist
red-tape and regulation, by trade-
union loafing and impudence,
and by planned Communist
treachery. The Communists
have deliberately tried to keep
Australian economic progress
down to the lowest possible rate,
and Chifley Socialism and trade-
union “militancy,” greed and
sheer irresponsibility have
greatly helped the Communist
plan.
With a return to the belief that
work is necessary to production,
and that production is necessary
for better living standards,
we could expect a healthy
economic atmosphere to prevail
again in the Commonwealth—
after a lapse of almost eight
years. Barring overseas prob-
lems, the stage is set in Australia
for great progress and eventual
prosperity. For many the past
decade has been one principally
of economic futility. A change
in the political and industrial
outlook is what is mostly needed
to alter that.
With production per man per
hour at the same rate as in 1938,
in Australia we would be well
on the road to real prosperity.
But we could easily improve on
1938 , production rates without
any hardship to the worker, and
in turn he would benefit from
the higher general living standard
that would follow. All this is
dependent upon a change in the
politics of government and the
policy of trade-unionism. It
should be the aim of the com-
munity to turn the increased pro-
ductive potential of the country
into actual production and use
it to cover reasonable social-
security charges and at the same
time leave as great an incentive,
in the shape of take-home pay,
bonuses and tax-paid profits, as
we knew before the Socialist and
Communist locusts descended
upon the land.
Britain has problems, based
upon lack of raw materials, that
do not apply to Australia. In
this country we grow a surplus
of food, and have a large excess
of exports at the present time.
Like the rest of the British
Commonwealth we are short of
U.S. dollars, which places re-
strictions upon the import of
petroleum products, motor-cars,
machinery and other dollar
goods. But we are by no means
doing the best we can with our
own productive resources. We
have all the means and materials
for a rapid housing programme:
but look at the housing posi-
tion in the Commonwealth to-
day! Tragic is the only term
for it; and the Dedmans and
Chifleys are as much responsible
for this position as are the
Communists and militant union-
ists.
The European situation and
the tendency for world trade
with the United States to remain
one-sided will influence all world
economic relationships for many
years. Australia cannot escape
entirely the influence of overseas
conditions. But no overseas in-
fluence is causing our under-
production of steel —Socialism
and Communism are at the bot-
tom of that. Nor our under-
production of coal and a hundred
other things. Those are prob-
lems we have to settle ourselves,
among ourselves.
We will have to return to a
spirit of private enterprise, of a
fair day’s work for fair pay, be-
fore we can say we are behaving
as any sane community ought
to behave. For eight years we
have had saboteurs, experimen-
talists and political adventurers
pouring sand into the industrial
and economic machine. With
this friction-creating sand re-
“Well, the shower's nearly over —Til be seeing
you, Toots.”
moved there is almost no end
to the productive possibilities
ahead of us.
The Sharemarket
Support for industrial stocks
was maintained last week. The
B.H.P. issue was absorbed by a
market that gathered confidence
as the closing-date of the huge
issue approached ; and last sales
of the rights were around top
prices. The new shares, 10s. call
and premium paid, opened at
225. 6d. and sold later above
235., making the fully-paid cost
435., against 465. 3d. for the
old shares last week. The latter
have risen about ss. since the
worst of the fecent market
blues.
.Australian Consolidated In-
dustries’ ords. fell less during
the general market decline, and
made slighter recovery. At 535.
last week the scrip compares
with the year’s lowest price of
50s. 3d. and highest of 58s.
Current yield is about 3.4 p.c.,
compared with 3.6 p.c. in the
case of BiH.P.
British Tobacco ords. stood at
48s. 9d. last week. The year’s
lowest price was 445. 6d., highest
525. 3d. Present yield is 3.7 p.c.
Tooth shares at 78s. 6d. showed
a recovery of nearly 10s. on the
year’s lowest price,, and were
within Is. 6d. of the year’s
highest. Yield is 3,8 p.c.- on a
15 p.c. div. basis.
Bank shares have had a
steady, unspectacular market.
’Wales scrip could be bought at
£39 10s. to return a shade over
4 p.c. For long-term holding
this scrip is attractive, and gives
a satisfactory present yield. The
Commercial of Sydney at
£24 6s. 6d. gives a slightly higher
return.
Towards the end of the week
there was lessened activity in
the Australian sharemarkets,
though the New York market
went to the highest level since
November last year. Usually
Wall-street, often without good
reason, has influenced the tone of
Australian sharemarkets.
M.L. Prices and Profits
Maoriland company chair-
men have been warning traders,
the public and the socialistic
Labor Government of rough
waters ahead if present trends
in costs, prices and controls
aren’t reversed. They say belt-
tightening has gone too far for
business, with profit margins
pared to the bone and trade in
a stranglehold of controls as a
pew round of inflation gets under
way following mid-year wage
increases. In a hard-hitting
attack on official price-cutting
chairman A. D. Bell, of the
Farmers’ Trading Co., Auck-
land, M.L.’s biggest department-
store, said lately that directors
could see the “red light.” Al-
though the co.’s turnover had
been soaring yearly to new
peaks, gross-profit percentage
had dropped to the lowest level
yet and enterprise had been
stripped of incentive to expand.
If the Price Tribunal made
another cut in profit many cos.
would face disaster.
“It seems to be the view of
some representatives of labor
organisations that because their
members enjoy spending more
on goods or getting more for
what they spend all they have
to do is to squeeze something
more out of business profits,”
said Bell. “But if money goes
into these channels, instead of
into investment in industrial and
commercial concerns, there will
be ultimately fewer factories,
older and less adequate machines,
fewer jobs for factory- and
store-workers and a smaller and
less satisfactory supply of
goods.” He denounced “loose
talk” about high profits and
lashed out, too, at advocates of
constant wage increases who
ignored that high wages were
only sound if earned.
Profit on many bread-and-
butter lines in N.Z. had been
cut well below overall costs of
round 9 p.c., said chairman Bob
Sims, of Entrican, Sims and Co.,
also of Auckland. Percentage
margins on fruits, jams, baking-
powders, spices, coffee and
“numberless other lines” pegged
at 1\ p.c. fell at least \\ p.c.
short of covering overheads,
and on a few best-sellers, like
tobacco, cigarettes, sugar and
tea, average profit allowed by
P.T. worked out at less than
half ( i.e around 3| p.c.). This
threw back cos. on to a limited
range of profit-earning lines to
recoup themselves and earn
divs. If they could expand sales
enough in this group they might
still keep business buoyant, but
they were up against import
rationing and impossibility of
getting anything like require-
ments of locally-packed lines of
many sorts. Many M.L.
secondary industries were sup-
plying goods which could be
imported at lower price and of
better quality and were perpetu-
ating a chronic labor shortage
in sound industries. Worse still,
thousands of M.L. men and
and women still fit, although
past middle-age, were standing
idly round collecting social-
security pensions when they
would be willing to work if they
were allowed to earn more than
£1 a week above their pensions.
M.L.’s ' little labor market
couldn’t continue to carry this
army of workless on a 40-hour
week and low average hourly
output in key industries with
“hoards of Government em-
ployees.”
“Goods in constant, everyday
need are always short,” said
Sims. “The whole system of
import-licensing should be over-
hauled and a well-considered
and sensible arrangement
adopted in its place.”
“K.”: A Sydney legal firm is
advertising for a general man-
ager for “a company with sub-
stantial financial and technical
backing,” now being formed to
engage in “earth-moving, quarry-
ing, surface mining and general
contracting throughout New
South Wales.” No use at present
asking what this means of the
people who know, but almost
anybody could guess that some-
body is very interested in the
dollar credits the Federal Gov-
ernment is making available for
heavier earth-moving machinery
for increasing opencut coal pro-
duction.
**, * *
The N. S. Wales Taxpayers’
Association has put out a
1946-49 Income-tax Calculator,
by E. A. B. Macfarlane and
John M. White, with charts
making calculations easy by Ben
Doig. A handy reference for
compiling returns and checking
assessments for the income years
1945-46, 1946-47, 1947-48 and
1948-49. The price is 15s. Also
being issued by the same people
is the 1948-49 Income-tax
Guide at 6s. It is an excep-
tionally simple and comprehen-
sive book.


m
§m ;
w
I
I h
m 1
Rural Distribution
TRANSFORMERS
are available for
short delivery
from
The English Electric Co.,
Ltd.,
13 1 York St., 1 89-Willlam St.,
Sydney. Melbourne.
and agents in
Brisbane, Adelaide, Newcastle,
Hobart, Perth.
lAVMNA
Seventeen-
Jewelled
Swiss
Masterpieces
©n
<3 9
tn®
oP
CSC
lAVMNA
Watches
Founded in 1852
VILLERET, SUISSE
LW.I
<‘i thinkraiHo?
a White Horse
better than anything ’*
ŵ
WHITE HORSE WHISKY
Equal to a fine liqueur. WH3
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HII/LTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots SOlb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra t on C.O.D. Orders.
Hi
At all times, and
especially in the bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin delightfully
smooth and charming. Cuticura
Soap has antiseptic pro
ties which remove all trace(.
of roughness and soreness. = ’
jofth
the famous trio**
One
Cuticura Soap, Oint
Jint- 'v
O
.523
2:
ment. Talcum
Powder.
ẁ
A hot meal in a moment
... a hot bath when you want it!
SLOW**"
awi j
GLOW-WORM
Double Dufy
COOKER AND WATER HEATER
A British made continuous slow-combustion
cooking range combining perfect cooking with
efficient water heating from ONE fire. Burns
coke, coal or charcoal at a minimum cost for
these two essential household services.
MODEL G.W. 1 illustrated here will cook for six to
eight persons and supply adequate hot water for all
domestic needs.
These ranges are attractively finished in fawn, vitreous
enamel with black enamel surrounds and polished
bright hotplates. A heat indicator is fitted in the
oven door.
They represent the greatest advance yet made in
modern combined Cooking and Water Heating
Equipment. Inexpensive to buy! Economical to
operate! Fully insulated to maintain heat! Easy to
instal in town or country homes!
MODEL G.W.2 with two ovens and
greater hotplate area. Designed to
meet the requirements of larger homes.
The same specification and general
finish are included. This model can
be fitted with plate rack, guard rail
and splash back if required—Larger
sizes are available for Boarding Houses,
Hotels and Institutions.
AGENCIES AVAILABLE.
II
MO**
GtO^
GW2
©
t>
Made in England by
Glow-worm Boilers, Ltd.,
Milford, Derby.
Write for literature to
Australian Distributors;
BRITISH ENSIGN PRODUCTS
90 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. ’PHONE BL 1619
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
August is. still the peak holi-
day month. Official surveys
show that about two families
out of five choose part of
August. But although some 25
per cent, more people than be-
fore the war are spending their
holidays in the country or at the
seaside, figures show that a large
proportion of the population
must of necessity stay at home.
Families ,of more than three
seem for the most part unable
to afford to go away together;
and that member most in need
of a holiday, the housewife and
mother, is the one most likely
to be left behind. These are the
estimated figures:
Seaside 15 millions
Country 6 millions
Towns 2| millions
Abroad l| millions
Outings from home .. 5 millions
Stay at home .. .. 15 millions
Today, with money altogether
tighter than a year or two ago,
the chief demand is for the cheap
holiday. The gregarious holi-
day-camps, with their boisterous,
back-slapping heartiness and
glossy attractions, if not every-
body’s idea of a change and a
rest, are easily first in mass-
appeal, and could, with larger
accommodation, rely upon many
more thousands of guests.
Otherwise, the smaller hotels and
boarding-houses have been most
eagerly sought. The more ex-
pensive hotels have had a poor
season. Shortage of money is
only partly responsible. The
Catering and Wages Act, which
purports to bring hotel staff into
line with factory and office
workers, regulating their hours
and providing for substantial
overtime rates, has brought in-
surmountable difficulties to a
trade that depends so much upon
casual labor and rush periods.
The higher costs can only be
passed on to the guest, who in
turn finds the tariff prohibitive,
so that staffs as well as manage-
ments are no better off in the
long run.
Health and Strain
The Stationery Office has pub-
lished a report by the chief
medical officer of the Ministry
of Health which shows that the
British people emerged from the
strain of 1947 —a difficult year
—“with their accustomed resili-
ence.” Births rose (to 20.5 per
1000). Deaths showed no
marked increase. The infant-
mortality rate fell to 41 per
1000 live births (in 1921 it was
83) and the maternal mortality
rate improved.
Broadly, the report demon-
strates that the health of those
who received special considera-
tion in the way of priorities,
supplements and extra rations
(chiefly expectant mothers, in-
fants and young children) bears
favorable comparison with any
other period. But some reser-
vations are necessary before it
can be implied that the health
of the nation as a whole has
improved. It is stated in the
report that the nutrition of
mothers with families of adoles-
cent age and over was less satis-
factory. The inference can only
be that the duties of mothers
are heavier than their diet, and
that they sacrifice themselves for
the benefit of their children.
There has also been a slight but
definite decline in the weight of
schoolchildren. A fair conclu-
sion seems to be that the pre-
sent rations, however well-
distributed they may be, still
fall short of adequacy.
Many general practitioners
are showing concern about the
nation’s mental health under
strain. They point out that the
need for preventive or thera-
peutic medicine is greater than
that for an elaborate nation-
wide service- of treatment by
drugs or surgery.
The National Health Service,
which is intended to include
psychological treatment as well
as bottles of medicine, has found
that there aren’t enough
psychiatrists by scores to deal
with the waiting-lists of neurotic
and psychotic patients. It is fair
to say that there never were, and
that similar difficulties are found
in other countries. But there
are two chief factors —again not
peculiar to Britain —that are dis-
tressingly topical. Psychiatrists
say that the bulk of their
patients seem either to be
middle-class parents who are
fighting, it seems, a losing battle
against the cost of living, or
young married people suffering
from the strain of trying to
make a home in other people’s
houses. The snowball tendency
of anxiety is the great danger,
they say ; and both groups could
quickly be cured, the first by
wider treatment and the second
by more housing. The pity is
that neither is available; nor
are they likely to be.
Sap’s Progress
A performance of “Hamlet,”
directed by the author and with
Richard Burbage in the name-
part, could hardly have been
awaited with keener anticipation
than the much-boosted “Death
of a Salesman,” which at long
last has been translated from
Broadway to Charing Cross-
road (Phoenix Theatre). The
author, Arthur Miller, has
already impressed British audi-
ences with an earlier play (“All
My Sons”); the director, Elia
Kazan, enjoys a breath-bated
fame projected from his Ameri-
can successes; and the star,
Paul Muni, needs no introduc-
tion at all.
The play, which as fitly might
be titled “Decline and Fall of a
Sap,” is concerned with the
turbulent twilight of Willie
Loman, a 63-year-old com-
mercial traveller who has failed
in his life’s ambition to be a
“big shot” in his business. There
are, no doubt, clear-cut and
polysyllabic expressions for his
state of irremedial neurosis, for
his teeming fantasies and for his
pitiable helplessness. But to the
ordinary worldly-wise spectator
impatience with his tantrums
quickly outgrows sympathy for
his frustrated plight because it
is soon evident that the real
tragedy is not Loman himself
but his family, who have to
share his house and company.
Were it not for Paul Muni’s
consummate art in sustaining in-
terest and even in adding a
subtle touch of sympathy the
three hours would be too long
by half. Willie Loman would
seem to be, what he really is,
a spoilt child and an insufferable
egocentric bore. His insistent
patriarchal demands and cring-
ing. self-pity have crippled the
staunch and beautiful nature of
his wife. By seeking easy and
spurious popularity he has
warped the development of his
two sons: the elder (who,
though much too late, has hard
sense enough to see through the
sham) has fallen from swollen-
headed athletic to ne’er-do-well
and thief; and the younger is a
smart Aleck who wallows in the
flamboyant triumphs of cheap
sexual conquest.
Finally, after half - hearted
attempts at unattainable suc-
cesses, Loman commits suicide
so that his family may have the
insurance - money and his
memory may receive that wide
recognition which is generally
given to the dead. Only the first
of these causes is fulfilled.
The play requires a set that
makes heavy demand upon
the actors, for the Lomans’
house has neither roof nor
walls. There is no unity of
place or time. Scenes are en-
acted in all the rooms of the
house, in the backyard and on
|he fore-stage; sometimes the
living-room itself is part of the
backyard, which sounds confus-
ing but isn’t. The supernatural,
like Banquo’s ghost, has an im-
portant part and a distinctive
lighting all its own.


YOU CAN DEPEND ON ROLLS
THE LIGHTER WITH THE
With every “Rolls” comes a guarantee
of free service for five years. This, with
the other outstanding “Rolls” fea-
tures—-fully automatic, wind
guard for all weather
use. everlasting glass
wick, recess for spare
flint, mechanism seal-
ing against evapora-
tion-means a lighter
dependable all ways.
Streamlined models in
chromium, 39/6. Also
in rhodium and gold.
“Rolls" Flints, 6d. packet
in
J-Q yjCr
is
Circular Chorti (or all types
of O«cord»ng Instruments
hr Mf dots of Michweg
or Cquipmant
HfTER CHARTS • f*«cioH ?
JAC
O’SILUVANfeLw
OUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
ẃ
MEMORISE
WITH EA&JS
Pass Examinations.
I Speak Without Notes.
Grip. Lodge Ritual.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E. 8, Vic.
Slop,
Rupture
your
Worries'
Mark <&
of YOUR RUPTWt
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and V t Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 2t), 9 Martin .Place, Sydney.
e
0
mm
a m
m
. V
Imm
HARVEST WON'T WAIT
hWVJ
MAJOR
FORDSON
a
MS
: ■
«i
LAST MINUTE ORDERS COULD BE TOO LATE
Reaping the harvest is reaping the return
for a year’s hard work, so don’t take
chances if you are needing a new tractor
for the coming season. Be foresighted,
get in ahead of possible delays and secure
your new Major before the peak demand
period.
If you have placed an order, seize the
opportunity for delivery immediately a
new Major can be allocated to you.
If you have not yet arranged the purchase,
our advice is to see your Fordson Dealer
RIGHT NOW, Waiting lists are growing
and it may be difficult to meet last
minute orders.
FORDSON
MAJOR
KEROSENE POWERED
f
• LOWEST - PRICED TRACTOR PER
HORSEPOWER YOU CAN BUY
• EQUAL TO A GOOD TEN-HORSE
TEAM
• PROVED. BY TEST, TO BE THE
MOST SUITABLE TRACTOR FOR
MOST AUSTRALIAN FARMS \
Enquire from
your nearest
Dealer
v;
FM94-27
row MOTOR COMPANY Of AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. W VIC.) EEC. OffICE: CiaONC. VIC.
Atf
—n”n.H6S UM
■ 'll
FOR the HANDY-
ON the LAND
**«m ERECTION IN ONE DAY ■
H£AT reflecting JL
PERMANENT STRUCTURAL STRENGTH y
EASILY DISMANTLED y
ROT-PROOF, non-corrosive
VERMIN-PROOF
FIRE-PROOF
EARLY DELIVERY. CRATED AND FORWARDED TO NEAREST RAILHEAD.
AUSTRALIAN AGENTS
Johiv Hart Pty. Ltd.
414 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE - - - - PHONE: M 1478
UNABLED
HDDITIOEIS
WORRIES FOR ISRAEL.
Reports from the Middle East
continue to suggest that the
cease-fire, Israel’s admission to
U.N.0., and even the recent
Israeli agreement to take back
Arab refugees have not nearly
ended the Arab-Israel clash,
despite the “peace” of sorts that
has lately been patched up.
There may be no return to
open fighting; the Arabs in ad-
jacent States are reported as
adopting other methods —anti-
Semitism against Jews who re-
main there and economic, or
“cold-war,” action; this last,
according to a staff correspond-
ent of N, Y. “Herald Tribune”
in the Middle East, based on the
following considerations:
1. Israel has no solid indus-
trial basis, and can never de-
velop one unless its manufac-
tured products are sold to ad-
joining Arab States. It cannot
find markets in competition
with Britain, France and the
United States.
2. Israel’s economy is being
kept alive by the infusion of
$100,000,000 to $200,000,000
annually from American Jewry.
That aid cannot be maintained
indefinitely, particularly with
war fervor dying.
3. Israel has less than 20 per
cent, of its populace working as
farmers, in contrast to the
Arabs, who have more than 60
per cent. It cannot continue in-
definitely paying costly prices *
for food imported from abroad.
It can never attain the agricul-
tural self - sufficiency of its
neighbors.
4. High wages and high prices
have already inflated the Israeli
economy to the point of col-
lapse. There are no natural re-
sources which can be exploited.
“The Jews have their desert;
we have our oil,” a Lebanese
official said.
On its correspondent’s series
of articles contending that, for
such reasons, “Most of the
Arab States bordering Israel
want neither peace nor war,”
that “diplomatic and economic
sequestration will be more effec-
tive than armed attack in de-
stroying Israel,” the “Herald
Tribune” editorially commented
that “The humiliation of the
Arab defeats has struck deep;
the fear of future Israeli expan-
sion is widespread, and the de-
termination of Arab leaders to
continue the struggle in the eco-
nomic sphere seems fixed.”
Recent articles by London
“Times’s” Tel Aviv correspond-
ent come to much the same con-
clusions, and suggest that the
new State of still under a mil-
lion people has problems enough
on its hands without the Arabs
adding to them.
As the “Times” man’s first-
hand description puts it, Israel
“is still but a marshalling-yard
for Zionist forces,” with the
very character of the coun-
try and the people still to
be evolved. Last year it had
more than 210,000 new arri-
vals. There has since been a
precipitous drop, only 16,400
arriving in June compared with
30,500 in March. Even so, an-
other 75,000 will have crowded
in before the end of this year:
“At present the impact of un-
limited immigration is the most
unstabilising factor. The prob-
lems it creates are overwhelm-
ing ; the cost is enormous. It
has been estimated that £950 is
required for the transport, initial
care and the training and re-
settlement of an immigrant. If
this year’s quota arrives every
cent of the $250 million which
the United Jewish Appeal hopes
to collect in America this year
will be needed. Many more mil-
lions will have to be raised or
borrowed to build an industrial
machine and develop an agri-*
culture to sustain them, but it is
feared that the target which the
UJ.A. has fixed for itself will
not be reached, and that each
passing year will see a progres-
sive decrease in the amount of
dollars subscribed.”
More than 50,00(1 are living
in camps ; within six months the
figure is expected to rise to
100,000, many of them living
under canvas: “Discontent
among immigrants is evident,
and riots have taken place,”
Also, there is serious unemploy-
ment, and “Equally serious, the
integrity and the fine pioneering
spirit which were the normal
characteristics of ttfe early
Jewish settler cannot be taken
for granted among the new
arrivals. Experience has proved
that many of them are not pre-
pared to work for small material
reward in the deserts of the
Negeb or in the sub-tropical
climate of the Jordan Valley.
“The arrival of Oriental Jews
creates another problem. Al-
ready there are about 100,000
Yemenites and other Orientals
who have so far generally
remained outside the main
stream of Israeli development,
and work only as laborers (or
terrorists) and live in patriarchal
communities. Such an influx
could change the character of
Israel. It would threaten the
security of organised labor and
create social problems which
could divide the country. It is
difficult to picture illiterate, and
probably unwashed. Orientals
living alongside stolid German
bourgeois communities; Poles,
whose ghetto background has
conditioned them to be intel-
lectuals, intolerant and narrow
nationalists, or terrorists; and
the few Americans as color-
conscious as their Gentile con-
temporaries. Israel will become
a melting-pot, and the ingredi-
ents will be more varied than
the American one.”
Israel, the “Times” man de-
clares, cannot feed its present
population, and even if the
Negeb is retained and costly
irrigation schemes completed,
cannot hope to produce suffici-
ent food for the size of the
population it anticipates. It has
few natural resources, and its
industry is at present small and
not particularly efficient.
“There is little hope of estab-
lishing trade relations with the
Arab countries at present except
by clandestine methods (smug-
gling is brisk, but only from the
Arab side). Even if the political
situation permitted, high prices
would create a natural trade


S il#Aj A
//
*1
Mi!
: ?.v /.
1 I 44
Schweppervescence
lasts the whole drink through
GOOD WHISKY
deserves FRESH SODA
for 6 O gS
barrier. Most Israeli products
are too expensive, and some-
times the quality is not good.
“Those not blinded by the
wonder of nationhood or in-
toxicated by military victory
realise that Israel must be pre-
pared for a long period of
austerity,” and “It remains to
be seen whether the unabsorbed
immigrants have sufficient self-
discipline for such a dreary
ordeal.”
Unneutral Franco.
As related by a Scripps-
Howard staff writer, at the time
of the North African landings
three large U.S. transport planes
landed in Spanish Morocco by
mistake, “Instead of being in-
terned, they were taken to
Madrid, lodged in a hotel and
later permitted to rejoin their
commands.
“Between that time and the
landings in Normandy in June,
1944, as many as 1100 American
airmen, some of them escaped
prisoners-of-war, found refuge
in Spain, and all were allowed
to rejoin our forces.
“The Spaniards interned and
did not release the crews of
several German submarines that
put into Spanish waters in 1943.
“When American military
planes crashed in Spanish terri-
tory Franco’s military authori-
ties customarily packed up any
secret equipment the Americans
carried and turned it over to
U.S. officials. Russia, although
a nominal ally, did not do this.”
Churchill Conscience.
Cables at the time reported
Mr. Churchill’s personal defence
of his part in the “uncondi-
tional - surrender” formula,
which Mr. Bevin had bitterly
attacked. What Mr. Bevin said
is worth giving more fully,
since he went much further
than attacking that frantic
formula for having prolonged
the war; he indicated how it
had damaged the peace.
On the declaration of “uncon-
ditional surrender” at Casa-
blanca, said Mr. Bevin, neither
the British Cabinet nor any
other Cabinet had a chance to
say a word:
“It was just said, and in the
middle of a war. But it left us
with a Germany without law,
without a Constitution, without
a single person with whom we
could deal, without a single in-
stitution to grapple with the
situation, and we have had to
build absolutely from the bot-
tom with nothing at all. We
have had to build a State which
has over twenty million displaced
persons scattered about the
whole show, and we had to build
it while something like five mil-
lion people were being driven
out of one end into the other.”
Mr. Churchill’s personal de-
fence is, of course, well known
—that the phrase “uncondi-
tional surrender” was not
brought before him to agree to
in any way before it was uttered
“by our great friend, and august
and powerful ally. President
Roosevelt.” Mr. Churchill’s de-
fence was, in effect, that that
had left him no choice but to
agree, and that when he re-
ported on it Cabinet had agreed.
But, as well as that, Mr.
Churchill also went on to speak
of his part regarding the notori-
ous Morgenthau marvel of
stupidity which passed for a
while as high U.S.-British policy.
“There is,” Mr. Churchill
said, “another matter which the
right hon. gentleman [Mr.
Bevin] referred to about which
I do not feel by any means so
confident in my conscience. That
is the Morgenthau agreement at
the second conference the
document published by Mr.
Morgenthau.
“Tnere is an agreement and it
was initialled by the President
and by me, and it undoubtedly
proposed the treatment of Ger-
many which was a harsh treat-
ment, in respect of largely limit-
ing her to an agricultural coun-
try. But that was not a decision
which had been taken over the
heads of the Cabinet. It was not
one that ever reached the
Cabinet, because it was only ad
referendum, and it was disap-
proved by the State Department
on the one hand and by my right
hon. friend and the Foreign
Office committee on the other,
and it just dropped on one side.
But I must say it never required
a Cabinet negative. It never had
any validity of any sort or kind.
—Chicago “Tribune.”
“With the lull in the ‘cold war,’ isolationism has shown up again in
American discussion of arms-aid to put teeth into the Atlantic Pact.”
OLD DECOYS, NEW PAINT.
“I do not agree with this
paper, for which I bear, none
the less, responsibility. I can
only say that when you are
fighting for life in a fierce
struggle with an enemy I feel
quite different towards him
from what I do when the enemy
is beaten to the grolnd and
suing for mercy. I feel entirely
different about it. Anyhow, if
the document is ever brought
up to me I shall certainly say I
do not agree with that and I am
sorry I put my initial to it.”
Union v. Corns.
Having decided by a thump-
ing majority that no member of
the Communist party shall be
eligible to hold office anywhere
in its organisation, either as a
lay member or as a permanent
or full-time officer, Britain s
Transport and General Workers
Union now has the job of root-
ing the unwanted out.
London “Times,” describing
the organisation as “the biggest
union in the country, and indeed
in the world,” spoke of its anti-
Com. action as “by far the most
important decision taken by any
union since the trade-union con-
ference opened its campaign
against Communist activities last
autumn,”
The job now being faced “will
be an Operation of great com-
plexity and difficulty which will
be carried out under the direc-
tion of the national executive.
In. the double structure of the
union, based on trade groups
and geographical areas, there are
hundreds of committees at dif-
ferent levels. There are more
than 4000 branches. At every
point of the structure, from
national officers and executive
members to local committeemen
and shop-stewards, the Com-
munists will have to be identified
and weeded out. There has never
been such a cleansing operation
in the history of British trade-
unionism.”
Backward Farmers.
Himself a practical American
farmer who made good from
scratch, Norris E. Dodd, Direc-
tor-General of U.N.O.’s Food
and Agricultural Organisation,
lately toured “backward areas”
of the world, and has come out
with the finding that “just a
little money and just a little
brains” would improve the
miserable lot of hundreds of
millions of people living on the
near-starvation line.
How backward they are agri-
culturally in India, China and
elsewhere he indicates in one
sentence in his N. Y. “Times”
interview: “If we could bring
half the world from the era of
the sickle to the era of the
scythe, we would have moved
ahead 100 years in one jump.”
In India he found that rice
was still being planted, culti-
vated, harvested and threshed
entirely by hand. In Japan he
discovered a simple hand-
worked machine made of gal-
vanised-iron and a few nails that
greatly increased the speed of
the threshing. At his request
General Mac Arthur presented
one of these machines to an
Indian representative in Japan,
and they are now being pro-
duced in India in thousands for
the peasants, who had never
heard of such an appliance.
Hence, Dodd said, what was
needed was not so much huge
sums of money but the training
of persons to train other people
to adopt simple technical pro-
cesses that require nothing more
than local materials and local
labor to produce. When that
has been done, he said, it will
be time enough to talk of
“mechanisation.”
“There’ll Always,” Etc.
An anthologist working to
the tune of “There’ll Always Be
an England” (and thereabouts)
could cull an item of evidence
from practically every issue of
London “Times,” on the lines
of the following report, given in
its entirety:
“The Royal Company of
Archers (King’s Bodyguard for
Scotland) defeated the Wood-
men of Arden 24-8 in the 21st
triennial archery match, which
was shot for the first time, by
permission of the King, in the
garden of the Palace of Holy-
roodhouse today. The King’s
Bodyguard won the last match,
held at Meriden, Warwickshire,
for the silver challenge cup,
competed for since 1890, and
until today’s contest both teams
were on level terms in the long
series. The teams wore tradi-
tional dress, the Royal Archers
with their dark-green uniforms,
swords and Kilmarnock bonnets
with eagles’ feathers; and the
Woodmen in their light-green
tail coats, white trousers and
wide-brimmed green hats.”
As just another recent speci-
men piece, a pretty little report
headed “ ‘Fresh Pluck’t Rose’
For Lord Mayor,” relating that
Lady Knollys, wife of Sir
Robert Knollys, having put up
a bow window in Seething-lane
without the sanction of the City
of London authorities —this was
back in the 14th century —“an
annual fine or quit-rent of ‘one
red rose fresh pluck’t from the
garden’ was imposed,” and was,
in fact, paid, “with some for-
mality,” to the Lord Mayor in
1346, and so continued to be
paid on each Midsummer Day
for many years.
At some time unknown —
maybe owing to bunchytop, or
black spot, or whatever slings
and arrows of outrageous for-
tune roses are heir to —the frag-
rant fine ceased to be paid, until
the good Rev. P. B Clayton,
vicar of All Hallows-by-the-
Tower, “revived the custom,”
apparently in the thus hallowed
year of 1924, since when each
Lord Mayor has “received the
rose from the churchwardens.”
So this year, “At the Man-
sion House, Sir Francis Whit-
more, Lord Lieutenant of
Essex, made the presentation,
the rose being from hts garden
at Orsett. An escort of 20,
headed by the vicar of All Hal-
lows -by - the - Tower, included
Sir John Anderson, Sir lon
Hamilton Benn, Lieutenant-
General Sir Humfrey Gale, Sir
Kenneth Harper and Sir Patrick
Ashley Cooper. Sir Francis
Whitmore asked the Lord Mayor
to accept the rose.”
It is good to be able to add,
from the authoritative “Times”
report, that “several American
friends of All Hallows were
present,” and that the Lady
Mayoress received from one of
these a whole bunch of red
roses, the presentation being
graciously made by Miss Barbara
Heck, daughter of an appropri-
ately picturesquely-named mem-
ber of the United States Army
Staff, Colonel Louis O. Heck.
Dragnet Digest.
Not All U.S. Arms. —Staunchly
supporting U.S. arms-aid to the
Atlantic-Pact countries, N. Y.
“Times” makes a point inclined to
be overlooked in the somewhat loud
American din: that those countries
“are already spending on armament
five times the projected aid.”
* * * *
Marshall on Arms-Aid. —Points
made by General Marshall in urging
the U.S. Congress to get on with the
arms-aid measure: If the military
requirements stated by the U.S.
armed services in 1939 could have
been met even to a modest degree, the
war could have been shortened by
at least six months. A firm front is
the best defence against the men of
the Kremlin, who, he was certain,
will in the end destroy themselves,
but who meanwhile have not only
the largest peace-time army in his-
tory but also the dangerous advantage
of being able to make arbitrary deci-
sions without resort to any Congress.
Curtailment or rejection of the pro-
gramme would give a tremendous
boost to those Kremlin men’s hopes
and ambitions, and he was “frankly
fearful of the consequences.”
* * * »
Why Congress Kicked. —Apart from
the economic and other pressures
forcing it into an economising mood,
U.S. Congress was not merely lapsing
into isolationism in appearing slow
and grudging over the arms-aid bill.
As pointed out by a non-isolationist
writer in N. Y. “Herald Tribune,”
the nature of the bill itself was a
contributing cause: “It is not merely
a bill to implement the Atlantic Pact
and to fulfil our known and recog-
nised commitments to certain coun-
tries outside the pact. The bill is
all that. But in addition to all that
it is a general licence to intervene
and to commit the United States all
over the globe, as, when and how
the President and his appointees de-
cide secretly that they deem it desir-
able to intervene,”
* * ♦ *
Joining the Dodo. —Two more of
Britain’s officially-rated millionaires
dropped out of the reckoning in the
past 12 months; a healthy year for
them compared with the preceding
one, when no fewer than 56 fell by
the wayside. At the other end of the
scale, out of 21,000,000 income-tax
payers, 18,375,000 had less than £5OO
and 2,030,000 had less than £l5O left
after paying taxes.
* * * *
Talk About Talk!—A paradox of
this age noted by N. Y. “Times’s”
talented woman correspondent Anne
O’Hare McCormick is that, while the
world has never been more definitely
divided, there have never been so
many international conferences. With
U.N.O. setting the pattern, and parent
of most of them, they babble end-
lessly away at one address or another.
Some —like U.N.O. itself, or the
Foreign Ministers, or die initial meet-
ing 'of the Council of Europe the
other day—manage to make some-
thing of themselves heard; but mostly
they are babbling away all the time
unnoticed. As an instance —how
many know that half-a-dozeri con-
ferences are just now going on at the
H.Q. of the old League of Nations
at Geneva?
* * * ♦
", Independent” Soviets. —On that
prize piece of hookum the alleged
separate sovereignty of the various
Soviet member-States, supposedly
proclaimed by Article 17 of the
Soviet Constitution, which recognises
the right of withdrawal of a con-
stituent republic from the Soviet
Union, a writer in the “Review Of
Politics” (U.S.A.) comments; “De-
ceptively, the Communists do not
mention the fact that no machinery
has ever been established for the im-
plementation of this provision, and
that therefore Art. 17 has, like many
other provisions in the Soviet Con-
stitution, a purely nominal character.
Furthermore, the Soviet criminal
codes contain clauses applicable to
any person or group advocating
separation. Propaganda to this effect
is sternly repressed in the U-S.S.R.
And even in theory the right of free
withdrawal from the Union is hedged
around with so many qualifications
that it becomes virtually meaningless.”


ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ
HOME - LI <9 HI IN G EAT r ERIE S TO FULFIL EVERY
LIGHTING NEED —BACKED 6> 61, i, YEARS" EXPERIENCE.
ẃ
ẅ
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD,
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
For many of destroyer Vampire’s men
their first close-range view of Admiral
(then Captain) Sir William Tennant, re-
tired this month from the Royal Navy
and command of the American and West
Indies squadron, was a bedraggled, oil-
slimed figure hauled aboard the ship’s
low waist after his own great vessel. Re-
pulse, had been split open by Jap tor-
pedoes. He proceeded at once to the
destroyer’s bridge, where, leaning over
the wind-break, his men still in the water,
burned, wounded, half-choked with oil,
sighted him and found voice to cheer him
from the sea. On return to Singapore
Tennant, though almost all in, refused
to leave the ship and rest till he’d per-
sonally seen all his wounded men in
hospital. He had been in the Dunkirk
evacuation, returned with the avenging
Normandy forces, and at war’s end was
flag-officer Levant and Eastern Mediter-
ranean.
Chris Coe, private detective guarding'
former-Communist Sharpley, was in the
Victorian force when, in 1932, he
proved himself as game as they
come. Chasing two burglars, one a
Chinese, he collared them on the
Highett (Vic.) railway-station and hustled
them into the s.m.’s office, where things
began to happen. Shot through a lung
by a revolver-bullet, Coe grappled his
assailant, an Australian. The Chinese
then shot him through the right arm and
stomach and fled. Though feeling a
trifle groggy, Coe continued to fight his
man, obtaining some help from an elderly
constable who walked in. He finally dis-
armed the desperado by sinking his teeth
into his gun-hand. The struggle ended
with the gunman shot dead. The China-
man is still doing his time and Coe wears
the King’s Medal, the highest decoration
in the Force. It was recommended by
General Blarney.
The Wirth family (which isn’t men-
tioned in the Australian Who’s Who /)
has broken out in a fresh sphere, Frank
Wirth and Donald Sharp, of Ballarat,
having turned up in London as a new
film company which sails under the
engaging title of “The Story Tellers.”
The first story they propose to tell will
be “Halfpenny Breeze,” a sea tale which
will be shot in the tiny Suffolk fishing
village of Pinmill.
New Professor of Ancient History at
Oxford, Maorilander Ronald Syme has
been rated among the most eminent
Roman historians. Born at Eltham
(1905), he had a good kick-off from local
schools before heading for Oriel College,
Oxford, where he matriculated in 1925.
When he wasn’t engaged on archaeological
exploration in Germany and the Danu-
bian countries digging up secrets of the
northern frontier of the Roman Empire,
he worked on the Cambridge Ancient
History and prepared his own work. The
Roman Revolution, published in 1939.
When World War II broke, his itchy feet
and experience, both geographical and
literary, found him a job as Press
at the British Legations in Belgrade and
Ankara, followed by a tutorship of
classical philology at Istanbul University.
With his present appointment he takes on
the vice-presidency of the Federation In-
ternationale des Societies d’Etudes
Classiques.
From “Phoongyee” (S. Africa):
The statement (B. 22/6/’49) that Robert
Eadie induced Kruger to establish the National
Park needs qualification. Eadie was in South
Africa while Kruger was in Holland, where he
had gone in 1900 and where he died, without
returning to South Africa. The present park
was established mainly through the efforts of
Sir Percy Fitzpatrick, who, before the Boer
War, was chief transport-rider and rode trans-
port from Sabie right through to Komatipoort
via what is now the Kruger National Park, but
in those days was the Sabie Game Reserve. It
was not until many years after Kruger’s death
that the park’s name was changed. Incidentally,
this park is a world-wonder; many Americans
who visit us give it full marks against their own
Yosemife and Yellowstone parks. The area is
slightly larger than Wales, and it is not a zoo,
but a sanctuary for every class of wild animal
except the springbok, which needs the plains
of the Orange Free State and Transvaal.
Actually, Robert Eadie had nothing to do with
the formation of the park, much of the credit
for the development of which goes to Colonel
Stevenson Hamilton, recently retired as Chief
Game Warden.
Penetrating deeper into the ocean’s
murky iciness than any man alive,
American Dr. Otis Barton last week had
himself lowered in a steel sphere 4500 ft.
into the pressured Pacific off California.
Fifteen years ago with Professor Beebe,
in a similarly-shaped ball —spherical be-
cause that shape is the best possible to
withstand the enormous grip of millions
of tons of water —he dropped over
3000 ft. into the sea off Bermuda. Barton
sighted some strange fishes that no
human had previously set eyes on ; frail,
thin, luminous creatures whose tissues
were resisting a pressure that would have
pulped a modem submarine. He believes
that the only way to solve the fantastic
mysteries of the everlasting night miles
under the sea is by personal examination.
No doubt true —but it’s a job for heroes.
Handling Aztec Services plays at the
Princess, Melbourne, Tom Rothfield
came under Melbourne notice as creator
of the first abo. ballet, “Terra Australis,”
put on by the Borovansky Ballet. Born
in Scotland and coming to Australia as
a child, he has alternated between the
Old Country and Australia all his life.
His first play, “Jam Tomorrow,” written
when he was 19, was produced at the
Torch Theatre, London. Later he pro-
duced for the Dundee Repertory Theatre.
As O.C. of the Australian Army
Theatrical Group in the late war he
toured the South-West Pacific, where his
writing talents impressed the Dutch into
appointing him war-correspondefit in the
Borneo campaign. After the war docu-
mentary films claimed his interest, and
he wrote a play, “Joseph,” a modern in-
terpretation of the Bible story, which
may be seen on the screen soon. He has
returned to Australia with the latest
fashions in overseas productions, and
since arrival has written another ballet, to
the music of Esther Rofe, the Melbourne
composer. The Ballet Guild will give it
movement in October.
According to the medical dictionaries
snuff is a sternutatory— i.e., it promotes
sneezing. According to Professor Brian
Lewis, who warms the “Age” Chair of
Architecture at the University of Mel-
bourne, the habit keeps colds away; he
hasn’t had one for years. At any rate,
it enables him to “smoke” even at
lectures, where his neighbors are fre-
quently tantalised by seeing him produce
a silver box and take a pinch.
Here pictured by Lambart, Commis-
sioner John Smith, Queensland’s No. 1
policeman since taking over from C. J.
Carroll, retired through ill-health. The
new commissioner donned uniform in
1910 as a ranker at 19, and climbed
through all the hard-won promotions (in
the early ’thirties he held three successively
higher ranks inside eight months) to sub-
inspector, then inspector in charge of the
Brisbane Metropolitan area, and, in 1947,
chief inspector with a term as acting-
commissioner while Carroll was ill. In
his sergeant days Smith’s squad was rated
JOHN SMITH, new police head.
No. 1 pest among Brisbane’s sharpers and
sly-groggers. His spare-time interest is
the Police Welfare Club (one-time chair-
man) and Police Citizens’ Welfare
Association (vice-president). He hails
from a Warwick (Q.) farming family,
was an expert rifleman, relaxes now at
bowls and has just turned 59.
“Fitz” says “so-long” to three old
mates of Lawson:
Australia has lost a trio of old poets and
cobbers of Lawson—J. W. Gordon (74) at
Leeton (N.S.W.), and, in Sydney, Henry Boote
(84) at Rose Bay, and Kbderic Quinn (79) at
Darlinghurst. Quinn and Gordon were
Bulletin rhymsters; Harry Boote belonged to
the “Australian Worker.”
J. W. Gordon, better known by his pen-
name “Jim Grahame,” was born at Creswick
ROD QUINN.
(Modelled by Frith.)
(Vic.), birthplace of many famous Australians.
A rover, Jim was jackeroo, station-manager,
drover, opal-gouger, storekeeper, station-hand,
overseer and farm-inspector. Back in the 90’s
Jim and Lawson worked together house-
painting at Bourke (N.S.W.), and then went
tramping. It was Henry who gave Jim his
pen-name. He used him as a character in a
story that began: “My mate James Grahame
has a long, scraggy neck like myself.” Leeton
(N.S.W.) has always been proud of Jim. They
staged a “Jim Grahame” week there last year
and are naming a park after him. Lawson
had to die before Redfern (N.S.W.) gave his
name to a street.
When he retired from the Inky Way six years
ago Henry Boote, generally recognised as the
most brilliant Labor journalist of his day, had
completed half-a-century of writing. Born at
Liverpool (Eng.), he came here young, and,
like many other fine scribblers, entered the
newspaper game as a comp. He edited the
Bundaberg “Guardian’’ (1894-96), Gympie
“Truth” (1896-1904) and “Queensland Worker”
(1902-11) in the northern State, and, in Sydney,
the “Australian Worker” (1911-1943). His
weekly “Fool’s Talk” was one of the best
features of the “Australian Worker.” The
cream of it later appeared in book form, as
did another collection of his whimsical writings
in Tea With the Devil. He wrote two books of
verse, The Siren City and As I Went By.
Lawson used to say: “My Holy Trinity are
George Robertson of Angus and Robertson,
Sam Prior of The Bulletin and Harry Boote
of the ‘Worker.’ ”
All who work at 252 / George-street will miss
Rod Quinn. Until a few years ago it was
Rod’s habit to call every Friday morning with
his copy. He would drop into the offices of
the literary staff, and the morning was the
richer for his calling. Ray Ormes and his
compositors will miss him, too. Rod’s hand-
writing—small, sharp-pointed—resembled that of
J. F. Archibald. [An appreciation of Rod and
his works will appear in next week’s “Red
Page.”]
Melbourne claims a ffirect relation of
William Shakspeare— Mks Shakspeare, a
member of the Services Commemoration
Choir which gave its annual concert at
the Assembly Hall the other evening.
Born at Stratford-on-Avon, she came here
after the last war.
Brigadier William Edward Cremor,
C.8.E., E.D., 8.A., who succeeds E. W.
Peters as Government representative on
the Victorian Teachers’ Tribunal, has
been Guidance Officer to ex-Army men
at Melbourne University and guides a
larger field as “Old Comrade” in the
serviceman column of the “Argus.” One-
time president of Legacy, and a trustee
of the Baillieu Education Trust, he was
a gunner with the First A.I.F. and with
the Second commanded the 2/2 Field
Regiment in Libya, Greece and Crete,
later to become Chief Commander, Royal
Artillery, in the First and Second Aus-
tralian Corps in the New Guinea business.
His predecessor is Labor candidate for
Bourke in the Federal elections.
Probably the biggest compiling job
yet undertaken in this country—the new
edition of the Encyclopaedia of Australia
—is nearing completion under Alec Chis-
holm, F.R.Z.S., whose books on Aus-
tralian history, flora and fauna already
make a respectable bookshelf. The previ-
ous edition, published 25 years ago, filled
two volumes; the variety of fresh activi-
ties in the nation, from motion-pictures
to radar, may swell the new one out to
five covers. Special articles have been
garnered from every class in the com-
munity, from university professors to
buckjump riders, and, as Australians are
a übiquitous clan, they come from as
far apart as Stockholm and Buenos Aires.
Having worked out his Victorian field,
Chisholm recently moved his staff to
Sydney. Publishers will be Angus and
Robertson. Chisholm, now 59, was born
in Maryborough (Vic.), holds honors
from the British, American and Aus-
tralasian Ornithologists’ Unions and re-
ceived the Australian Natural History
medallion in 1940. In 1945 he was Press
liaison-officer to the Duke of Gloucester.
“Ceg”; With height, speed and en-
durance air-records being blown sky-high
almost weekly, let’s slow down and have
a'look at a pioneer of the game —Wing-
Commander G. C. Matthews, A.F.C., now
retired from adventure in South Yarra
(Vic.). Starting with the sea, he served
his time in sail, was probably the young-
est (at 26) to get his Extra Master’s Cer-
tificate, and when World War I broke
Was with the Adelaide Steamship Co.
He shipped horse-legs, with the 3rd L.H.
Regiment, and switched to the 9th. Anzac
and Palestine followed, then the Camel
Corps. Leaving “oonts” for planes, he
trained in Egypt with the R.F.C., was
posted to the original 2 Squadron, A.F.C.,
and soon after got command of “A”
flight of the newly-formed 4 Squadron
in France—equipped, appropriately, with
Sopwith Camels. After that war he had
a shot at the £lO,OOO Commonwealth
prize for the first England-Australia flight,
but crashed in his Sopwith Wallaby on
Bali. Then came vigorous pioneering of
Australian civil aviation with several
companies, and, lastly, his own, Matthews
Aviation Pty., Ltd., which built the first
privately-owned hangar on Essendon
’drome. It’s still there.
A widely-gathered tally of adventure
and experience closed when George
Vernon Dudley, soldier, airman and
member of five different constabularies,
passed on in Sydney. Oxford-born (Eng.),
he was a mounted policeman in South
Africa at the end of Kruger’s war, then
moved to Canada and became a sergeant
in the Mountics. Joining the Royal
Artillery in England on the Kaiser’s out-
break, he ended that war a major, with
D.S.O. and M.C. A spell policing with
the Royal Irish Constabulary prefaced his
shifting ground to Australia —here, police-
man in the Territory, and, during the Vic-
torian police strike, a special constable in
Melbourne. In World War II he took to
the aif, and finished it a squadron-leader
in the R.A.A.F. He was as well the
original secretary of the Battle Veterans’
Association, in Sydney,
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, Colin Joseph Chisholm, who
founded one of Singapore’s leading firms of
brokers and was a foundation member of the
Stock Exchange there and a president of the
Caledonian Society. Ten years ago he came
to Australia and was a front-rank Caledonian
in Melbourne. He was cousin to Alec Chisholm.
In Sydney, at 70, actor George Cross. Born
at Stonehenge (Eng.), he came to Australia
50 years ago, played lead with George Rignold
and managed the Nellie Bramley company.
Film work included parts in “Mutiny on the
Bounty” and “The Squatter’s Daughter,” and
cast-directing for Cinesound. He founded the
Australian Academy of Dramatic Art.
In Melbourne, at 69, Robert Lawson, between
1935-40 chief engineer of the P.M.G.’s Depart-
ment and among the most experienced engineers
in Australia. Coming here from the British
post-office in 1914, he was in turn superin-
tendent engineer in the Adelaide, Melbourne
and Sydney p.os. before switching to the war-
time R.A.A.F. as Director-General of Supply
and Production, then as technical assistant to
the Chief of Air Staff, He was one of the
earliest members of the Institution of Engineers,
and last year was awarded the institution’s
Peter Nicol Russell Medal for notable con-
tributions to engineering.
In Vienna, at 83, Tom Sullivan, Maorilander
and champion oarsman who established records
on the Parramatta and Nepean, and in 1903
won the championship sculls on the Thames.
After coaching Oxford crews he went to Berlin
and trained the German crew for the 1932 Los
Angeles Olympic Games. During both wars
he was interned in Austria, and after the end
of the second settled in Vienna. He was also
a noted Rugbyite.
In Melbourne, G. J. Lynch, clothing manufac-
turer and physical-culture expert. * In his day
he won several world weightlifting champion-
ships and trained some of the country’s best
amateur wrestlers and boxers.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
At the private view of the Society of
Artists’ exhibition last Friday afternoon
you couldn’t see the people and you
couldn’t see the pictures. The sky had
become grey and leaden, and there were
no electric bulbs in the lamps. So those
present wandered about in the gloom,
and after a while whispered in a twilight
tone. However, most of the Fridayites
turned up again for the public opening
on Saturday when the sun shone through
the glass overhead, and Clive Evatt, jn
the absence of his brother Dr. Evatt, de-
clared the show ready for the general
gaze.
The Minister for Italy, Dr. Del Balzo,
and his wife, and France’s Consul-
General de la. Croix and Madame de la
Croix were early arrivels. President of
the society Douglas Dundas and Mrs.
Dundas and members of the council re-
ceived the official guests. Mrs. Harold
Beale’s mushroom - pink suit wore
specially-designed buttons —green and
gold in a snail pattern. Evelyn and
Beatrice Tildesley, the Derek Burnells,
artist Alannah Coleman, like a picture
herself, Denmark’s Henning Hergels,
sparkling Beaupre Bassett and her mother,
both wearing knots of Parma violets in
the lapels of their suits, were picture-
gazers ; so was Mrs. Harold Farncomb,
who with her rear-admiral goes off to
Washington towards the end of the year.
Former president of the 5.0. A., Sydney
Ure Smith, was one of the speechmakers.
One of Roderic Quinn’s most beautiful
poems has a refrain: “I am but a drover
of sheep, but who is the Drover of Stars?”
Well, last week Rod learned the answer
to his question. And by now he is prob-
ably one of the company of Heavenly
musterers himself. Rod died last week,
and is buried in Waverley cemetery.
Late last Monday afternoon Robert
Morley, famed overseas actor, was en-
tertained by the directors of J. C, Wil-
liamson. The party was in the Glou-
cester Room of the Australia. Mr.
Morley will star in the play “Edward,
My Son” to open at the Theatre Royal
during September. A rival party of the
twilight hour was the sherry-drinking
poured by the Arts Council of Australia
in honor of this land’s knight of the
baton, Bernard Heinze. This was a very
plutocratic party housed in the Rural
Bank Building.
The entire company at the Australian-
American Society’s (women’s section)
lunch now know the Christian name of
this State’s new U.S. Consul without a
doubt. He has been variously written of
as Michael and Lawrence, but president
Mrs. Florence Taylor firmly declared
him Maurice. His wife, who has all the
charm of a spring day in Paris, speaks
English quite fluently, but wore her tiny
red hat with a French air. They come
to us from Morocco, and are looking
forward to wistaria-time and a visit to
Wentworth House, as the doorway of
their Moroccan home has a richly-
blooming wistaria-tree on each side of it.
The lunch was at the Trocadero, and
was a great success. Mrs. Harry Twig-
den was one of many new members wel-
comed. Mrs. Linnell, who before she
went to England was singer Edna Bow-
den, was handed a combined welcome
and farewell, as she and her husband
return to London in two or three
months’ time. Mrs. Orsen Nielsen,
Sonia Lester and her attractive mother,
Mrs. Jacobsen, snug in an almost
knee-length natural-blue fox cape, Lady
Poynter, Mrs. Maurice Gulson and
Florence Birch were among those who
listened to a programme of duets sung
by Gwladys Evans and Bryson Taylor.
Good singing and good entertainment
marked the “Count of Luxembourg” and
the “Veronique” numbers. Gwladys also
sang a solo. Accompaniments were
played with verve by Teodora Stephens.
Lady Jordan, just back from Gundagai
and the wedding of niece Jill Robinson
to Murray Jackson, has a tale to tell
that proves not only was there luxurious
plenty in the tucker-box but that the
whole design for the homestead reception
at Kimo had been thought out. The
marquee on the lawn was enormous —it
had to be, for there were 300 guests.
Whole turkeys and hams and sucking-
pigs were on the long tables. The
wide verandahs were beflagged and
awninged-in, and after the breakfast and
the toasts there was dancing that went
on till about three in the morning. The
music, of violins and piano, romantic
and dreamy, bursting every now and
then into the latest dance hits, was played
by three local girl artists. The whole
was served on a windless night on which
a great silver platter of moon shone
down,
Here is an extract from a recent letter
from Sydney singer Kenneth Neate, now
a top-liner in opera overseas, regretting
the death of former teacher Lute Drum-
mond ;
Tomorrow I leave for Italy, where I have
six performances of the Duke in “Rigo-
letto,” after which I return to Paris, where
I shall continue my studies with Lucien
Muratore, the famous Romeo and Don
Jose of the golden era of opera. Some day
I hope to visit my native land with an
opera company, and I shall endeavor to
impart some of the knowledge of art that
I have so diligently pursued and loved since
the golden doors were unlocked for me by
. Lute Drummond.
Nobody down in Melbourne asks “Who
is the potter, pray?” when a piece of
Merrick Boyd’s pottery is shown. Mer-
rick’s son David is following his father’s
high standard in ceramics, judging by the
exquisite little show in one of the small
rooms of David Jones’s Galleries of
which David and his wife Hermia are
the creators. There’s a goldfish bowl
with subtleties of green and gold that
would well become the National Gallery.
The two artists have also worked up some
opulent gold effects—a fruit bowl and a
plaque of medieval design have this lush
background. Personal preference was the
great platter of melting lotos-blue on
which a chevalier in white trappings
ambles along on a white charger.
Opening speech was made by Lyndon
Dadswell in the presence of many artists
and a sprinkling of fashionables. A full-
skirted coat of apple-green corduroy worn
by Mrs. Boyd added its rich note of
color to the occasion. David and Hermia
evidently keep the party spirit in their
work. A coffee-set shading from prim-
rose to olive-greens has no fewer than
nine cups and saucers, and there is a
company of yellow mugs which will be
very handy to a hostess when beer flows
freely again.
Pictured here is pianist Carita St. Clair,
who was the associate artist when Thomas
Saville gave his violin recital last week.
Miss St. Clair had transcribed all the
music played by the violinist into Braille.
She has done, too, a grand job of tran-
scribing many of the well-known sonatas
and concertos into Braille to help sight-
less musicians. Norton Trevaire photo-
graph.
Two amusing invitations to the dance
were in Sydney’s mailboxes last week.
One was for the Naughty ’Nineties dance
on September 30 at the A.C.I. Building
in William-street. It shows a drawing
of a young blood of the period, striped
flannel jacket, tight trousers, boater
and handlebar moustache, standing
beside his mount, the original bike,
with its very large and high wheel
in the front and a very small one
at the rear. The other card was from
the committee of the Black and White
ball to be held oh October 4 at the
Trocadero. The ctecor on the cover is
of two sylphs, one in buoyant white
dance frock, the other in equally whirl-
ing black, swinging into the dance before
a background of black-and-white stripes.
The Naughty ’Nineties ball will aid the
Spastic Centre; the Black and White, of
which Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere is presi-
dent, is, of course, the annual money-
maker for the Industrial Blind Institution.
On Friday, August 26, there will be a
buffet lunch in the Overseas League
rooms to commemorate the 39th birth-
day of the League. The guest-of-honor
will be Lord Fairfax, a Scottish peer
who arrived in Sydney by airliner.
Lord Fairfax, who was formerly
Conservative Whip in the House of
Lords, is the hon. secretary of the Empire
Industrial Association. He has come to
Australia on behalf of the Association
and to explore the possibility of mass
migration from the United Kingdom.
From Melbourne
About £135 was raised for the Vera
Scantlebury Brown Memorial Appeal at
the hat parade held at Paterson, Laing
and Bruce’s showrooms. The masses
of cherry-blossom, daffodils, hyacinths,
violets and primroses had been
donated and arranged by Mr. and Mrs.
Alwyn Spicer. Lady Herring wore a
smart black ensemble. The Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney, was also in
black, her skirt having the new floating
panel. Mrs. Bruce Mead’s frock was
moss-green, and her brown hat was
finished with a chou of goose-feathers.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s black velvet frock
had a yoke of flesh-pink chiffon em-
broidered in seed pearls. Mrs. Desmond
Hollywood added a wide-brimmed hat to
her black suit. Mesdames W. Rowell,
E. Campbell and Francis and Paddy Finn
acted as ushers and programme-sellers.
Dawn Ingram, Gwenda Masters, Ronnie
Goodlet and Joy Damman were the
mannequins.
Here to conduct symphony concerts for
the A.8.C., Otto Klemperer comes with a
big reputation for solid musicianship. Mrs.
Klemperer was formerly Johanna Geisler,
a leading soprano of the Cologne and Ber-
lin opera. She abandoned her profession
to look after her husband and children:
Lotte, who stayed, in America while her
parents undertook the Australian tour, is
her secretary, and Werner, who is
a stage- and radio-actor in New York.
Youthful-looking Mrs, Bruce Rose is
a member of the committee organising
the ball to be held on Derby Eve in aid of
the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children. Formerly Pam Fincham,
she was educated at St. Catherine’s ; she
is the mother of two small children.
Mrs. Russell Grimwade is president of
the committee organising the Victoria
League Ball to be held in St. Kilda Town
Hall on October 25 —this has been timed
to coincide with the arrival of Victoria’s
new Governor, Sir Dallas Brookes, and
Lady Brookes, and will be one of several
functions to usher in the spring racing
carnival. For the first committee meet-
ing the league’s clubrooms were filled
with enthusiastic members, Elizabeth
White, Elizabeth Cahill, Clarissa Storey
and Mrs. Basil Dean are the ticket-
secretaries, the Murdoch lady and Mrs.
Guy Bakewell were elected vice-presi-
dents of the committee, and members of
the Young Contingent will act as usher-
ettes at the ball. Mesdames Rupert
Green, Rupert Downes, H. F. Creswick
and C. T, M. Pizey have also offered
their help to make the function a suc-
cess.
St. Peter’s Church, Eastern Hill, was
the setting for the wedding of Judith,
eldest daughter of Judge and Mrs. F. B.
Gamble, of Mont Albert, to Ewan,
younger son of Mr. and Mrs, R. G.
Deane, of Essendon. The bride’s classi-
cal gown of white moire taffeta had a
full skirt which fell into a rounded train ;
the bodice had a deep, square neckline
and long, tight-fitting sleeves. Her filmy-
tulle veil was lent by Mrs. Robert Can-
non ; the bouquet was of white hyacinths
and gardenias. Mrs. James McCoy was
matron -of - honor, and Pamela van
Rompaey and Ann McCall bridesmaids.
They wore smoky-blue velvet gowns with
shoulder-length blue tulle veils studded
with pearls, and their bouquets were of
tree lily-of-the-valley and blue hyacinths.
Gordon Deane was best man. About 100
guests attended the reception at Menzies’.
Mrs. Gamble wore a gown the top of
which was of dove-grey lace and the
skirt of matching crepe in unpressed
pleats. The ’groom’s mother wore a
black crepe romaine gown, the bodice
heavily beaded.
Joan Hammond was guest-of-honor at
a party given by a group of hostesses
headed by Miss Mary Chomley at the Vic-
toria. League Club. Accompanied by
Lolita Marriott, her secretary, the re-
nowned soprano had been forced by a
breakdown and accommodation tangles to
spend a night in the car on the trip from
Sydney. Honorary members of the club
who were invited to meet Miss Hammond
included Lady Elizabeth Berwick, Captain
and Mrs. R. W. Ravenhill, Mrs. Guy
Innes, Colonel H. A. F, Wilkinson, Mrs.
G. Willoughby, Mrs. P. L. Luby and Mr.
and Mrs. W. Lamarque.
Airlie, the home of Mrs. Clive Leonard
in Domain-road, was filled with guests
when vivacious Yannay La Motte came
from Sydney and showed her Spring Hat
Collection in conjunction with Lillian
Wightman, who supplied the Paris models
worn by the mannequins. All the pro-
ceeds will be devoted to defraying ex-
penses for the ball for the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children. The
Gullett lady was there ; she is president
of the ball committee, Mrs. Sam Pierce
was a harbinger of spring in her black
straw hat with its garland of golden
wattle. A white panama swathed with
navy georgette was a smart accessory
for Mrs. Laurie Skues. Mrs. A.
Colman wore with her dyed-ermine
coat a deep-pink felt hat swathed
with matching chiffon. Mrs. Sam
Wood was trimly tailored in grey
tweed. The pretty young matrons who
acted as mannequins were Mesdames
Geoff Grimwade, Tyrwhitt Drake, Peter
Conson and Bill Gluth,
A bleak wind, with sunshine and
showers alternating, caused most race-
goers at the Moonee Valley meeting to
abandon thoughts of including the
vernal touch in their outfits. A black
beret with a feather trimming and
a petunia-wool coat made chic com-
bination for Mrs, Fred Hammond. With
Mrs. Reg Baillieu, whose brown caracul
coat was worn with a brown hat, was
Mrs. John Money, of Perth—her grey
Donegal tweed coat had for company a
small grey hat finished with matching
quills. Mrs. Money’s daughter Gay will
marry Mrs. Baillieu’s son Reg at St.
George’s Cathedral, Perth, in November.
Ivy Parker’s swinging coat was of greige
corded velvet; her brown-and-tan velvet
hat matched her shoes. Mrs. F. W. Hoy-
stead’s black Persian-lamb coat was worn
with a small beige double-brimmed hat
trimmed with bronze-brown feathers.
Mrs. Harry Furnell, who is busy organis-
ing a gala picture night for the Connelly
memorial at the Mercy Hospital, was in
leaf-green tweeds, with the same tone in
the pheasant feathers of her grey hat.
Mrs. A. E. Kimpton wore p brown
ermine coat over a brown beaded frock.
A hip-length silver-grey musquash coat,
grey boucle frock and a pheasant-
feathered brown cap gave Mrs. A. Joyce,
of Ararat, the snug look. Mrs. Frank
Dempsey’s mulberry-tweed coat was
topped by a brown beret carrying a gold
ornament. Mrs. Harry Scott had a
brown hat to tone in with her beige
camel-hair coat. A brown fox-fur collar
finished the tailored brown coat Mrs.
Ron Cameron wore with her brown hat,
which flew orange-colored feathers. Her
daughter Keera had bright - lime
feathers in the black hat she wore with
her black coat. Mrs. Bevin French, of
Derrinallum, was a study in navy, except
for some bright-blue feathers in her up-
turned felt hat. Yvonne Wilton’s pastel-
checked skirt and hip-length, olive-green
coat were worn with a small grey hat,
A large bow of mushroom-pink satin
ribbon trimmed the green bonnet-shaped
hat worn by Mrs. R. V. Monahan with
her brown-ermine coat.
A buffet-dinner party was given by Mr.
and Mrs. Norman Lynch in their lovely
Toorak home in celebration of their silver
wedding. Silver candelabra and a centre-
piece of spring flowers were set on the
table, while the reception-rooms were
decorated with bowls of pink blossom,
iris, hyacinths and carnations. Mrs.
Lynch wore a ballerina frock of white
taffeta, printed in floral tonings, and
pinned an orchid in the deep neckline.
Guests included Mrs. W. Gahan, whose
pinky-beige lace frock was ankle-length,
the bodice having short cap sleeves ; Mrs.
Royden Honeyman, whose black crepe
frock had masses of gold and multi-
colored sequins on the bodice and on the
front of the skirt; Mrs. H., Silk, her
powder-blue crepe frock having large
tulips of silver beads trimming one side
of the bodice; Mrs. John Langley, who
combined black lace and crepe attrac-
tively ; Mrs. Vern Sunners, in white lace
dinner-gown and hip-length jacket of blue
and silver brocade; and Mrs. David
Harlam, wearing a dove-grey taffeta bal-
lerina frock.
Mrs. J. E. Shilliday, who, with her hus-
band and daughter Wanda, are holiday-
ing overseas, writes of the glories of the
Lakes Country, the lure of London and
the excitement of the Dublin Horse
Show —that especially attracted Wanda,
who is a regular competitor in horse-
riding events at home. France, Sweden
and Norway are on their itinerary before
they return in the Strathallan in October.


Wm
Wheelbase 7ft. 7in.
Turning Roller Bft. 9in.
Width of Sweep sft. 3in.
Water Tank 90 gallons.
Track 4ft. Bm.
Refuse Bin Capacity 1 8 c. ft.
3 speed, 2-15 miles per hour
and reverse.
THE "JOHNSTON”
MOBILE SWEEPER AND COLLECTOR
Manufactured by Johnston Brothers (Contractors), Ltd., England.
The outstanding feature is the '‘channel! brush’ 1 ’ operating on an entirely
new principle. It definitely cleans out the channels or gutters in a manner
never before achieved.
The litter is brushed within the track of the main sweeper brush, delivered
on to the belt and carried into the container. The channel and main sweeper
brushes can be raised or lowered together or independently.
Send for, catalogue and quotation to Australian Agents:
R. E. JACKMAN & CO., LIMITED
57 Flinders Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
THE SERVICE MAN
Communist Advance
in China.
“Ek Dum”: The situation in
China is quickly becoming im-
portant as the Communist
Chinese Army drives southward
and westward on a great arc
more than 1400 miles long.
It had little trouble in mak-
ing its drive, because there is no
resistance, and can be little
under present conditions.
There are learned discussions
in the cables about the military
position. But it is obvious from
the speed of the advances and
the careless manner in which
they have been made that there
can scarcely be any military
position so far as the area be-
tween the Nanchang and Han-
kow and the Indo-China border
is concerned.
The obstacles which the ad-
vancing Communists have
passed, even more than the speed
of their advances, prove the
futility of the defence and the
lack of resistance.
They took the important port
of Foochow apparently without
having to fight for it, and at the
week-end were close to Amoy,
their way not having been barred
at any stage.
The Eighteenth Army of Liu
Po-chen was early in the week
well on the way to Canton and
travelling like the wind —that is,
like the wind according to the
standards of an army not over-
well equipped with transport, in
whose path bridges are not being
smashed and. which is meeting
otherwise with little or no re-
sistance.
Anyone not versed in the
history of armies of a century
or so ago might stand a little
amazed at the progress which is
being made and attribute it to
far better mechanisation than
the Communists are likely to
have.
But the truth is that primitive
troops living off the country,
whose officers have no Frankie
Fordes and Eddie Wards and
Press correspondents in the
background, can achieve re-
markable feats.
One division of Hitler’s troops
in Poland, for instance, during
World War II was alleged to
have marched 625 miles in three
weeks, and the military events
in which it took part justi-
fied the conclusion that the
claim was not exaggerated. And
Hitler’s *men were not a patch
on “Daddy” Hill’s Highlanders
and Borderers in the Peninsula.
The military picture of Middle
and South China is reminiscent
of the Japanese campaigns. The
idea that the Japanese had a
solid occupation of China, push-
ing deep and impenetrable
masses of troops through the
country and thus isolating
Chungking like a kernel in a
nut, is entirely erroneous.
The Japanese invasion when
World War II was in a
fairly advanced stage might be
pictured somewhat as follows:
(a) North China to the lati-
tude of Nanchang below Shang-
hai —that is, all the area acces-
sible to shortest approach from
Japan—was fully occupied. The
good reason for this was that it
represented a dangerous base
area from which the southern
munition centres ,of Japan might
be attacked.
(b) South of Nanchang there
was little occupation either in-
land or on the coast, except at
strategic points. These points
were areas from which Formosa
might be attacked by air, and
which at the same time were
ports of ingress for supplies for
the Chinese Nationalist Gov-
ernment —Swatow, Amoy, Foo-
chow and Canton, which is 80
miles up the Pearl River, and
Hong Kong, which guards its
mouth.
(c) Indo-China was in
Japanese hands, making most of
productive China into a sand-
wich-centre.
Drive on the Ports
The position as it stood in
the Japanese occupation days
will soon be repeated by the
Communists, Communist Viet-
nam can now do what it likes
with Indo-China, The Com-
“Pity she's radio-active."
munists are driving on the vari-
ous Chinese ports. The block
occupation of the north envelop-
ing the main river-communica-
tion systems, the ports and the
vital railways is complete. The
patrols of Central China are in
progress, and so are the advances
which will presently turn into a
strategic fortress every port
which the Communists can
reach.
Chiang’s supporters, while he
tours the North Pacific looking
for help, are gradually fading
away. Support will fade even
more when it becomes generally
known among his erstwhile
friends that he has Engaged large
numbers of Japanese pilots to
fight his battles. The story is
that Hiroshi Nemoto, a well-
known former Japanese General,
is already in Formosa with an
advance staff, turning himself
into a Japanese flying tiger.
Position in Hong Kong
On the day that this news be-
came public a break-up of the
Chinese Kuomintang element in
Hong Kong began. A group
from the party including Lung
Yu, former C.-in-C. in Yunnan,
Liu Chien-shu, formerly Gover-
nor of Fukien, and General
Hwang Shao-hsiung, who was
among the Nationalist peace
delegation to Peking, with a
large number of others, decided
that they were all on the side of
the Communists and shocked
at Generalissimo Chiang’s be-
trayal of the principles laid down
by Sun Yat-sen.
Many more will follow their
example, and their presence in
Hong Kong is not likely to add
to the comfort and safety of that
congested area. Upon it a
purposeful enemy, said to be
supported off the coast by
Russian submarines sneaking
amid the Nationalist Navy’s
“blockade,” is closing.
Into it refugees are pouring,
and already, at last week-end, it
was stuffed from Peak to Tolo
Bay.
Even with no civilian popula-
tion to look after, Hong Kong is
not an easy corner to defend,
despite its advantages of terrain
on the mainland and of com-
bined isolation and terrain on the
island. Kai Tak aerodrome is in
an awkward position, on the
mainland, under the lee of jagged
mountains and with bad
approaches and visibility. The
area is split by the Lyee-Moon
passage, which is narrow on the
north between island and main-
land. And while an island has
great advantages for defensive
purposes and the mainland area
of Kowloon holds fine defensive
positions, China is not to be
considered on the same basis as
other areas.
Where there are plenty of
water-approaches and endless
sampans and small boats and
life is ridiculously cheap, a
limited number of defenders,
whatever the efficiency of their
weapons, have a poor chance
against swarming half-armed
millions which come on regard-
less of death and destruction,
like ants climbing up an exposed
leg. •
The force in Hong Kong by
the end of this week will be
about 25,000 —when ancillaries
are considered, about a division,
plus R.N. forces and R.A.F.
The actual manpower available
for defence, all told, will be
about 40,000.
Australasia’s Part
New Zealand heads of defence
are to discuss the Pacific de-
fence position with the British
and Australian representatives.
There are various guesses at the
range of discussion, but it could
be taken for granted that the
position in Communist China
would not be neglected, especi-
ally in the light of the fact that
New Zealand has decided to send
three Dakotas and 57 officers
and men to Singapore at the re-
quest of the British Government
for transport duties and will send
three frigates to Hong Kong if
they are needed.
As Mr. Fraser says that what
has been done has been at the
request of the British Govern-
ment, it can be taken for granted
that Australia also has had a
request. But Mr. Chifley will
not be so precipitate as his
opposite number in Wellington.
He will have to find out what
the Communist unions think
about it before he acts, and
whether it is safe for him to
proceed. Or perhaps the recon-
ditioning of the Westralia is part
of a programme being carried
out at Britain’s request, and the
Government does not dare to tell
some of its followers that it
actually has a part —if even a
very small one —in resisting the
advance of Moscow towards
South-east Asia.
In Canberra the Prime
Minister made a surly refusal to
newspaper requests for informa-
tion, but Government spokes-
man—who commit nobody but
their anonymous selves —inferred
that if Britain asked for help she
would get it. The Australian
Government’s attitude is in
strong contrast to the forthright
declaration of Mr. Walter Nash
in Maoriland that the “N.Z.
armed forces were being streng-
thened and trained to help ease
the burden the United Kingdom
had borne so long.”
The Australian defence forces
have been allowed to go to
pieces. The only reality about
them is, apart from the existence
of an officer corps with sound
pretensions to experience but
little to encourage it, a vast
expenditure which is producing
no results, except continued talk
about “the long-range weapons
programme” and “Manus,” and
the issue of bloodcurdling stories
of atom-bomb effects by Mr.
Chifley’s adviser. Professor Oli-
phant, which are not only not
borne out, but some of which
are definitely negatived by the
experiences of Hiroshima and
Nagasaki, on which specific re-
ports are available, together with
simple and comprehensive eye-
witness evidence.
The Australian Army needed
to tax its resources to work a
few opencut coalmines recently.
If war came tomorrow it would
take six months to get under
way.
Unease in Europe.
“Ek Dum”: In Europe con-
ditions become unhappier as
winter approaches,
Hungary has adopted a Com-
munist Constitution modelled
on that of the U.S.S.R., which
seems to presage the absorption
of the Magyar nation into the
Soviet Union.
Threats and counter-threats
pass daily between Russia and
Yugoslavia, which complains
that the Russians are flagrantly
ignoring all air conventions and
national rights in order to fly
troops and supplies to Albania
and the Greek frontier.
The Russians have countered
with a venomously-worded and
threatening Note about alleged
Yugoslavian atrocities against
Russian refugees—refugees, that
is, from the Stalin rdgime.
Rumania also has threatened
Yugoslavia.
And while it is said that
Field-Marshal Von Paulus—
“Field-Marshal” by Hitler’s ap-
pointment—is in China advis-
ing the Communists, reports
have come out of the Russian
zone of Germany that the Rus-
sians are preparing V 2 bases
aimed at Western Germany, re-
conditioning troopships in vio-
lation of the Potsdam agree-
ment and generally preparing
for war. At the same time the
Communist union-leaders of
Finland are doing their best to
paralyse industry there in con-
cert with these moves, just as
the Communist leaders have
been doing their best to para-
lyse potential munition indus-
tries in Australia on the verge
of the Communist drive in
China towards Hong Kong.
A U.N.O. Democracy
“Ek Dum”: One of Dr.
Evatt’s “democracies,” and a
member of the Security Council,
which erupted in April this year
(B. 6/4/’49), has exhibited its
principles again.
The “country” is Syria, which
used to be a very small item
among French mandates. It is a
bit bigger than Tasmania and it
has a population a little short of
that of N. S. Wales, of whom
five-sixths are not-very-ardent
Moslems.
On March 30, Colonel Husni
el Zaim sallied forth in the early
morning, threw troop cordons
round all main buildings, arrested
the President, Shakri el-Khou-
atly, and the Prime Minister,
Khalid el-Azam, and took over
the country. This was quite
easy. Syria is a country of a
nature towards which Australia
is turning under the Calwell
regime—the Syrians, in their
conical caps, lean against walls,
merely moving a step occasion-
ally to get into the shadow.
The “new Syrians” do most of
the work, laboring night and
day, and making most of the
money.
Colonel Zaim announced that
he had acted “to save Syria
from a despotic regime,” and
also to “put an end to anarchy.
Then he dissolved “Parliament,
issued a new Constitution, with
the same ease with which race-
clubs in Australia issue free
passes to politicians, declaring
that the aspirations of the Syrian
people and the restoration of
their violated rights and liberties
were now guaranteed.
A democratic coalition Gov-
ernment was chosen. The


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROY ANTRAM formerly of Port
,Kembla—TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS
IRENE ANTRAM has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2294 of 1949 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and therein prays
for the exercise by the Court of its discre-
tion under sub-section (2) (a) of Section
19 of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899 If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
Seventh day of November 1949 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge
from J. J. KIELY, Solicitor, 17 Castle-
reagh Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOAN BROWN lately of 137 Bridge
Road Richmond near Melbourne in the
State of Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE that
SYDNEY JAMES BROWN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 2842 of 1948 on
the ground of desertion without reason-
able cause by reason of your failure to
comply with a decree of the Court for
restitution of conjugal rights If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 7th day of Novem-
ber 1949 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS
BRAUND, SON & RITCHIE, Solicitors,’
5-7 O’Connell Street, Sydney, New South
Wales.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
and
FACTS
The ROMANCE of Hastings
Deering is one of sound and
courageous planning based on
our faith and experience in the
power of intelligent and well-
directed WORK. Our reward
to-day is our unchallengeable
financial strength which has been
won and consolidated by our
technical ability, by the thorough
provision for all demands of the
public we serve, by our well-
advised and far-seeing employ-
ment of capital subscribed by
our shareholders. On this subject
we show graphically the progress
made in twelve years' operation
of the Hastings Deering Group.
IT IS A ROMANCE .
Every section of it proves the
expanding profit-earniftg power
of this efficient, smooth-working
machine, which has, even in this
short period, gained the full con-
fidence of the public who have
taken up shares in it, in excess
of £500,000. That our FAITH was
well founded is proved by the
list of Hastings Deering FACTS
to-day:—-
(Above) The well-known Hastings Deering
Building, William Street, Sydney.
■w'.’V n,
(Above) The modern steel-framed build-
ing on eight acres of ground on the
Great Western Highway, Lideombe.
Hastings deerinG
w
Post Coupon
© Today!
FF.B
Faith..
The number of shareholders in the Hastings Deering
Group totals 4,083.
FACT...
The original shareholders have to date re-
ceived back 91% of their investment in
dividends paid.
Faith..
£300,000 new capital was required for the expan*
sion of Hastings Deering Building Ltd.
FACT...
Already 230,000 of these shares at £1 each
have been subscribed.
Faith..
A modern steel-framed building on eight acres of
ground at Lidcombe was planned.
FACT...
This great building is now completed and in
full-time Operation. % It provides 100,000
square feet of wording space without a
column . . . and amenities and service for
1.000 vehicles.
Faith • • In 1937 the Company built in William Street the
largest building of its kind in Australia.
FACT...
£18,000,000 (Eighteen million pounds) worth of motor
cars, trucks, Diesel buses, rail motors and Diesel
vessels have been sold from this building in the last
12 years.
Faith..
The original company, Deering Engineering Company,
was founded in 1920 and is still earning profits.
FACT...
The Hastings Deering Group of Companies to-
day has 650 employees, earning wages total-
ling £266,000 annually. The total capital of
the Group exceeds £500.000.
Faith..
Small investors have always been sought and wel-
comed in Hastings Deering activities; these people
have faith in Australia, as we have, and feel they
would like to be with us in developing this country
With SINCERE. HONEST WORK.
FACT...
MANY OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS HOLD ONLY
5 SHARES (VALUED AT £5). DIVIDENDS PAID
TO DATE TOTAL £160,000.
Faith.
Mr. H. Hastings Deering's FAITH is shown by the
FACT that he himself is the largest individual share-
holder in the Hastings Deering Group of Companies.
He has bought all his shares for cash at par, the same
as ail other shareholders.
FACT...
Hastings Deering Service Limited is now fully
subscribed to £250,000 and dividends at the
rate of 7% per annum have been paid since
1936.
Your Opportunity! new ordinary shares
in Hastings Deering Building Ltd. (limited number 70,000)
are still available AT PAR. Early application is advisable.
ŵ
foreign policy, designed to please
Dr, Evatt and his associates, was
renewed as before, with the de-
| m proving the relations
of Syria internationally, and par-
ticularly with the Arab States.
A “pitiless fight” against Com-
munism was decreed.
The President and the Premier
at once most obligingly an-
nounced that they were resigning,
and, the hot season arriving with
a bang, as it invariably does
about the end of April, Aleppans
were compelled to move a little
more quickly than usual to
follow the shadows and avoid
standing in the sun.
Instead of cleaning one boot
in every two, no doubt the
hordes of minions at the Hotel
Baron cleaned only the shoe-
laces The revolutionaries had
picked the right time for revolu-
tion.
By May Britain, France,
U.S.A., then Lebanon decided
to recognise the new Govern-
ment, and Colonel Zaim had
some not very successful discus-
sions with King Farouk, of
Egypt about the creation of a
“Greater Syria,” to include
neighboring Arab countries right
down to Transjordania. A
brand-new Ministry, in the
meantime, had been formed out
of “independent” elements,
which always make up a very
poor foundation for a Cabinet.
Syria then disappeared into
the limbo of forgotten Powers —
save at U.N.0., in which it exer-
cised its normal rights—until the
weather changed and a few
Syrians were able to divert to
politics the energy normally
applied to chasing shadows and
leading pet sheep along the banks
of the Kuweit.
On Sunday, August 14,
Colonel Sami Hinnawi and his
agents called on Colonel Zaim
and some of his followers, an-
nounced that democracy at last
had triumphed, conducted a
“trial” and handed over Zaim
and his assistants to very accu-
rate firing-squads.
One of those executed was
Dr. Moshen Barazi, the Premier,
a Kurd. This was a mistake on
the part of the revolutionaries,
Kurds being large, strong, tur-
bulent men some of whose more
elongated and muscular sons
who happen to be porters tote
pianos around like portable
radios,
A son of Barazi Effendi
promptly went out and shot
Colonel Hinnawi’s son, but
Colonel Hinnawi himself had
not much reason to care about
this, since, earlier in the week,
a “civilian” had allegedly
pumped six bullets into him.
The Kurds in the region of the
Turkish border have, so Turkish
reports say, “revolted.”
Let all the democrats, includ-
ing Dr. Evatt as head of the
World Democracy, in which
Syria is an equal partner,
tremble! A Kurd in his most
passive moments is a fearsome
thing. In revolt he is likely to
do anything. He might even
turn up in Canberra some fine
morning and introduce demo-
cracy there at revolver-point.


6»lv!vS"P
■
//ma
ms
®sgts'
40
THE STEPS
®*°* nan.
WOLFES
or ramritic
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
JJ®e§
When steps seem a little
steeper, the days a little longer, the bustle of modern life
more irksome, it’s time to heed nature’s warning signals.
After 40, most men and women find their system requires
extra care ... and thousands have found the help they
need in Wolfe’s Schnapps. Known and proved for genera-
tions, Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest of spirits, a safe
stimulant and diuretic, and possesses medicinal properties
found in no other spirit. With ice-cold water, soft drinks,
lemon or cordial, it is a pleasant drink and a tonic with
lasting beneficial effects. Some also prefer
Wolfe’s Schnapps hot with lemon at bedtime.
Available in large, half and quarter-size
bottles. Start the “small bottle test”
. . . to-day 1
Missing Friend.
WOULD KENNETH CHARLES BART-
LETT, formerly of Shepparton and of
The Grove, Moreland, or anyone knowing
his present whereabouts, please com-
municate with MESSRS. W. H. JONES
& KENNEDY, Solicitors, of 214 Nicholson
Street, Footscray, Victoria.
%
%
0
o
i
sr
BG
r
km
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS UNITE
;n association WITH Q.E.A. AND 8.0.A.C.
Cargoes exotic and mundane
fly the Tasman daily. Speed
your goods or parcels to New
Zealand by T. E. A. L. air cargo
service. It costs only 3/2 per
pound (minimum 6/11).
Any office of Q.E.A. or T.A.A.
will despatch your cargo.
W
SUNDRY SHOWS
Lloyd Rees’s landscapes origi-
nate not so much in nature as in
the perpetual winter of his mind,
and it is strange to see them
entitled “Summer Morning” and
“Sunlit Fields.” Yet these are
the most powerful works at the
N. S. Wales Society of Artists’
exhibition at Sydney Education
Department Galleries. Though
in their massive, stony quality
they are remote from Gruner’s
art, they bring to mind some-
thing Gruner said in his later
period: “Nothing interests me
now except the anatomy of the
earth.” They are less sombre
and less turgid than Rees’s usual
exhibits in recent years, and
“Summer Morning,” despite its
harsh, almost solid, water, is a
beautiful study of the rhythms
and modulations of hilly coun-
try.
Other landscapes worth notic-
ing at the Education Depart-
ment Galleries include John
Rowell’s “Hoar Frost,” full of
light but also full of chalky
paint; J. Carington Smith’s
“Winter Sunlight,” an impres-
sion of ragged trees and yellow
haze more in the style of water-
color than of oil; G. F. Law-
rence’s Hobart painting; and a
panel of three oils by A. J.
Murch. “Shower in the Valley”
is brimming with atmosphere,
and “Morning Sea,” with its
long-legged bathers in a haze of
silver, just falls short —because
of the thinness of the figures
and the evasiveness of the sea —
of an exquisitely lyrical state-
ment Murch has been trying to
make for a long time.
In the last few years the
Society of Artists show has been
so crammed with enormous black
landscapes, deceased gum-trees,
deceased slums and practically
deceased rabbiters that one has
come away from it sunk in un-
appeasable gloom. This year,
with Lloyd Rees having a kind
of wintry dawn, Drysdale con-
fining himself to a couple of in-
nocuous dancing children and
Sali Herman absent with his own
show (more cheerful, anyhow)
at David Jones’s, it is possible
to look at the exhibition with-
out being knocked on the head
by a ton of iron; and so to
notice the odd bits of comedy by
Arthur Nichol and Roy Thibou,
the momentary grace of a girl’s
bare arm and shoulder in Francis
Lymburner’s “Girl Reading,”
the meticulous craftsmanship of
Joshua Smith’s portrait of Pro-
fessor Sutherland, and the
flowerpieces by Nora Heysen,
Alison Rehfisch, E. A. Harvey,
Grace Cossington Smith (a bank-
sia mercifully visible among the
customary flakes of gold), Adrian
Feint (but it is altogether too
rococo) and, especially, Maud
Sherwood’s lovely harmony in
purple built around the velvety
crimson of a dahlia.
# * * *
As well as the rhythm of line
there is a remarkable opulence
of decoration in Roland
Strasser’s pre-war drawings from
Bali, Japan, China and Tibet
at Sydney Macquarie Galleries.
Sometimes the black-and-white
is enlivened by a splash of crim-
son or a pattern of gold, but the
black-and-white itself conveys
warmth. The drawings, often
three or four feet in length, are
much larger than the average
quick sketch and, in spite of their
competence, never lose fresh-
ness. Except in a portrait of a
gambler, squatting like a cartoon
of the Shadow of the East, an
amiable and ineffably stupid
“Tibetan Escort” and a fat,
naked old lady, Mr. Strasser
hasn’t much to say about the
people of the East as individu-
als ; the girls are dec'orations,
and the vitality of the drawings
is in their decorative richness.
* * * *
Visiting conductor Otto Klem-
perer is the direct antithesis of
the mercurial Kubelik who pre-
ceded him; but this serious-
visaged, bespectacled man is a
wizard with an orchestra, which
he conducts without fuss, baton
or score. But very patenfly* he
.knew every note of Mozart’s last
symphony (“The Jupiter”) and
Brahms’s First, through which
he piloted the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra. The orchestra rose
magnificently to the occasion,
and under the quiet yet firm
authority of Klemperer gave
easily the best performance since
its ine«ption. All the sublimity
of the C Major, with the under-
tone of joyousness showing
through, and all the majesty of
the C Minor, with its stirring
march in the Finale and the
short chorale of the brasses, were
brought out with splendid clarity
and precision,
Elisabeth Schwarzkopf was
the soloist in the Bach Cantata
No. 51. Her light but beauti-
fully-controlled lyric soprano
stood up well to the punishing
austerities of this grim Lutheran
music. An air from Handel's
“II Penseroso” which followed
was warm and mellow.
Audiences had a wider vista
of Miss Schwarzkopf’s art at
her first recital. In. a programme
which ranged from Scarlatti,
Handel, Bach and Purcell
through lieder, Grieg and Rach-
maninoff to opera the soprano
paid the exact due of each song
in terms of mood, weight of
tone, period and climax. Her
notes right up to the highest
register are invested with a liquid
quality and purity. She is especi-
ally impressive in legato-singing
such as in Handel's Care Selve.
* * * *
Dulcic Holland was soloist in
the first performance of Alec
Rowley’s Miniature Piano Con-
certo given by the North Shore
Symphony Orchestra under Alan
Bellhouse. A pleasant little
work, it is built on classical
lines, its thematic material logi-
cally developed and its melodic
thread well defined. Unfortu-
nately the orchestra, even allow-
ing for defections, was far below
The woodwinds were
feeble, while some the strings
achieved sounds which wo did
have astonished the makers of
their instruments. Some solid
choral work went into Cyril
Jenkins’s “Young Lochinvar,” a
forthright and spirited piece of
concerted writing.
* * ♦ •
The French film, “The Baker’s
Wife,” is showing currently at
Sydney Savoy, and to the praise
that was accorded it (B.
27/7/’49) while it was showing
in Melbourne may be added the
statement that it is a veritable
classic —a work of art that can
be compared with not more than
a dozen films in this commen-
tator’s memory. There are very
few films made that will stand
the test of time—“styles” of
acting and directing change so
rapidly—so it is a tribute to the
naturalness of this 10-year-old
French production that it could
have been made yesterday.
The comedy—of a village
baker whose wife runs off with
a shepherd and leaves him so up-
set that he gives up making
bread, whereupon the villagers,
vastly amused by his plight but
very distressed by the lack of
bread, set about getting his wife
back for him —seems to spring
from the French earth itself,
while the players, the late Raimu
as the baker, Ginette Leclerc as
his wife, Robert Vattier as the
priest, Robert Bassac as the
schoolteacher and Charles
Moulin as the shepherd, act the
piece with a natural artistry that
seems, almost, to amount to an
affection for its story and char-
acters —as though it were some-
thing they had been telling for
years and could go on telling
with undiminished delight to any-
one who cared to hear it.
* * * *
“Miranda” (Sydney Em-
bassy): Tale of a mermaid who
stays at a London flat and en-
joys London society for a week
or two. Glynis Johns is the cold,
fishy female and Griffith Jones,
John McCallum and David
Thoralinson are the men she
hooks. Mildly amusing,
although it never touches the
heights of comedy one might ex-
pect, except when Margaret
Rutherford, as the mermaid’s
nurse, enters the piece.
♦ * * ♦
Bob Hope is the bookmaker in
“Sorrowful Jones,” a remake of
“Little Miss Marker,” at Sydney
Prince Edward, and contrives to
extort a fair amount of amuse-
ment from the character and
the situations he encounters when
left with a five-year-old as a
“marker” for a bet. Despite his
enthusiasm Hope almost needs a
tug to pull him through some
sentimental patches, but he’s still
afloat at the finish.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To get in touch with Sydney and
Melbourne breeders of Siamese cats.
—4678.
To buy books or other literature
on the breeding of Yorkshire canaries
in Australia.—4679.
To buy copy of Weldon’s “Prac-
tical Needlework,” No. 186. —4680.
Words of “A Bushman’s Farewell
to Queensland,” beginning “Queens-
land, thou art a land of pests.”—
4683.
To buy copy of Children of the
Sun by W. J. Perry.—4682.
Words of “The Skye Boat Song.”
-4681.
Information Sought.
Have black opals been found only
at Lightning Ridge (N.S.W.) ?
Although most of the black opal
of commerce comes from Lightning
Ridge, it has been found elsewhere.
Much of the opal from Western
Q’land is of the black variety, some-
what like that from Lightning Ridge.
Dark opals have been obtained from
Mexico, but they were not very
durable, and were of little value.
Some of the best opals from the
mines at Caerwenitza, in Czecho-
slovakia, were almost as dark as the
black opal from Lightning Ridge,
but most of the opal from this
source was light in color. #
* * * *
How did The Bulletin get its
name ?
John Haynes wanted it called “The
Tribune,” and had in mind modelling
it upon a successful American paper,
“The San Francisco News Letter and
California Advertiser.” J. F, Archi-
bald’s preference in titles was “The
Lone Hand,” and his model was a
short-lived, audacious Sydney weekly
named “The Stockwhip and Satirist.”
Twenty-seven years later “The Lone
Hand” was used as the title of a
monthly founded by The Bulletin.
The two partners ultimately agreed to
scrap both titles and use The
Bulletin, which happened to be the
title of another San Francisco period-
ical admired by both.
* * * *
Should oil-paintings be protected
by glass or varnish? When should
they' be varnished and what type of
varnish is best?
It is advisable to protect oil-
paintings with varnish —glass is an
added protection, but not necessary.
An oil-painting should not be var-
nished for at least one year after the
picture is painted. Special picture-
varnishes can be purchased from
artists’ supplies stores, but we would
advise anyone who is not familiar
with varnishing pictures not to experi-
ment on a picture of any value, as
much harm can be done by wrongly
varnishing.
Brief Answers.
E.A.B.: (1) Plastic wood, obtain-
able at hardware stores; follow direc-
tions. (2) If damage is slight, use a
smoothing-plane and rub down with
sandpapers Better method is to call
in a sanding and polishing firm and
get a thoroughly good job done
R.F.F.: Recent investigations carried
out by the S.A. Department of Agri-
culture have shown that table
potatoes can be stored for several
weeks by dusting the tubers with a
hormone called Methyl ester of alpha
naphthalene acetic acid. Buzacott-
Wolseley Pty., Ltd., distribute this
hormone under the name of Bar-
sprout P.F.: Write Book Collec-
tors’ Society of Australia, Box 905,
G.P.0., Sydney D.G.8.: Trade
secrets are not readily accessible, but
either of the two following may be
the one you want; try small quan-
tity first. (1) Water, 80 parts; spirit
of wine, 20 parts; tincture of ben-
zoin, 3 parts; perfume as liked. (2)
2oz. powdered gum tragacanth, loz.
boric acid, 1£ quarts water; use a
wooden mixing-spoon, and if too
thick, add more water J.J.S.: Try
Frank Hambridge, 22 Bridge-street,
Sydney.... W.H.A.; As far as we can
trace there are no horticultural col-
leges in New South Wales or Queens-
land similar to the Burnley Horti-
cultural College in Victoria B.B.:
The exact weight of ten gallons of
cow’s milk would naturally depend
upon its composition, but on an
average the weight would be 103.21 b.
....A.8.C.: Cynodon dactylon, the
common couch-grass, can only be
controlled by summer cultivations,
raking the leaves and roots together
and then burning them. Any weedi-
cides capable of destroying couch-
grass will also have a detrimental
effect on other plants in the garden.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should bs
addressed to the Editor.
M.O’C.: It’s no good, but wc well
believe that it relieved your feelings.
.., .G.R.McC. : Just this once:—
The pot is cracked. Machine-made, mass-
produced.
Pot-bellied product of a jimcrack age,
When truth and love and beauty were
seduced
By man-made profits of machine-made
■wage.
R.F.: Not game to print what
we thought of “What Do You
Think?” S.H.; “A True Story of
a Little Wild Pig” not for this adult
journal... .K.C.: Try “King of the
Northern Mine” on the “Abattoirs
Herald” S.M.: Stories told in let-
ters should bear the stamp of origi-
nality G.F.S.: Of Judges whose
wives pose naked for postcards we
plead judicial ignorance J. 5.8.:
No publicity for authors, even in fic-
tion, who succeed in frightening
editors J.J.A.: Boating story a
little dingy... .C.D.: “Home Run’
has run home... .K.T.: We put
aside “The Strong Pipe” R.F.T.:
Article on suicide is a little too timely.
F.T.: Only an anecdote....
G.M.8.: Reads like a , synopsis of a
B-grade Western... .E.J.T.S.: A bit
tall, even for a sea-story 8.A.P.:
Maybe nice girls, like happy peoples,
have no history, but you would have
done better with Gertie by making the
portrait turn round a single incident.
....E.G.8.: “Oil” isn’t the good
oil to us, but we are in favor of “The
Death of a Butcher” 0.K.K.:
“His Worship’s Watch” might go
elsewhere... .L.1.W.: Goldfields story
mixes too many motifs, as though a
prospector were to strike a rich vein
of artificial jewellery.


r
»...«• A
A WINNING DOG
Cocker Spaniel
‘‘TALISMAN OF TROY"
A clear red and white dog. It
is claimed that he has won
more first prizes than any
other Cocker Spaniel of hu
colour in Australia.
mm
.
tO&fc
s6S
Rf£
CHAMPION
READY RUBBED TOBACCO
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for the Pipe .
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON^
OSUUJVA*
y
TRADE MARK
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
£
-1
The Ibest
A racing pigeon, whether cock or hen, is at its prime
from 9 months to 4 years, and has more speed and stamina
if long in body and wings. Pigeons first race over short
distances —lO to 40 miles and ultimately over distances
up to 600 miles. Average speed is between 1,300 and 1,700
yards per minute, though birds have flown at 2,700 yards
per minute. On a still day a bird can atthin 50-55 miles
an hour and keep it up for hours. Between the ages of
9 months and four years “Master Craftsman”, one of Aus-
tralia’s greatest racing pigeons, flew 5,780 miles in races,
including five of 300 miles and three of
540 miles. It is still living and a prize
stud bird as a 13 year old. Few birds
die of old age. Most fall victim to
hawks or “sportsmen”.
Whisky does not enter its prime until
more than five years old. Not until that
ttsaisaKffi*" age does it attain fine bouquet and mellow
flavour. Corio Special is aged for over five years (more than
double the minimum period set by Commonwealth law).
Corio Special
Whisky at its prime.
<u. JjW
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
After suffering the sight of some
extraordinary rough ’uns winning last
races in recent weeks, punters wel-
comed the .reappearance of “last-
race” Billy Cook, who resumed rid-
ing at Rosehill after a successful
sampling of English racing. Revers-
ing the procedure which has earned
him his sobriquet, Cook won the
first race, the Windsor Novice first
division, on the High Caste four-
year-old High Spirits. Cook’ had also
been successful on the last mount he
had before leaving for England.
Some of the better-class horses also
made a reappearance at Rosehill,
commencing their preparations for the
spring. Among them were Dark
Marne, Benvolo, Snowstream and
Count Cyrano, none of whom, how-
ever, proved forward enough to win.
Benvolo made the best showing with
a goodish third behind Buzmark (N.
Sellwood) and Messenger in the Pitt
Town Mixed (9f.); Buzmark won by
a long head, with Benvolo two lengths
further back after being forced to
run a couple of horses wide most of
the trip.
Having his first run since finishing
second in the Brisbane Cup, Dark
Marne ran stone-last in the Benson
Quality Handicap— not surprising, as
the distance was only 7 furlongs.
Dark Marne’s presence in the field
proved a blessing for connections of
The Groom, who, rated 71b. inferior
to the Sydney Cup-winner, carried
8.12, the first reasonable weight he
has had in months. In about the
closest finish seen at Rosehill since
the camera was introduced, The
Groom (G. Moore) scored by a nose
from Hisign, with Meteor third.
Although he has in the past been tried
and found wanting, The Groom
might yet prove capable of running
a very solid mile; he has 8.8 in the
Epsom.
A feature of Saturday’s results was
the success of two previously disap-
pointing sons of the French sire Le
Grand Due. Since the days (in 1946)
when he was considered good enough
to start an even-money favorite for
the AJ.C. Derby (he was beaten a
half-head), Flying Duke has been a
consistent disappointment, though
several times close to the money.
However, the six-year-old son of Le
Grand Due-Virgin Wing rose to the
occasion to win Saturday’s Hawkes-
bury Grand Handicap, albeit in
somewhat scratchy fashion. Racing
past the early pacemaker, Plausible,
at the distance, Flying Duke looked
set for an easy win, but stopped
badly and was hard pressed to beat
Plausible by a neck; again not quite
good enough, Tamasha took third
money.
Top-priced colt at the 1948 yearling
sales, Heritor (by Le Grand Due-
Heiress) had, at half-a-dozen previous
outings, given scant promise, apart
from his handsome appearance, of
proving worth his cost. Trainer
Maurice McCarten evidently decided
that the disparity between Heritor’s
looks and his performances was due
to plain laziness. A. Podmore rode
the colt in the second Windsor
Novice and had the whip at him all
the way. Winning well from Tithonus,
Heritor collected £468 prizemoney—
something off the 4500 guineas paid
for him as a yearling. In other races
at Rosehill Crag Son (A. Stead) beat
other three-year-olds over 7 furlongs,
while the veteran Mirrigen (G. Pod-
more), after finishing last at his pre-
vious outing, improved to the extent
of a very easy win in the Richmond
Welter.
* * * *
In view of the conditions—bitterly
cold weather with heavy rain and a
sodden track —the punters who
turned up in surprising force at
Moonee Valley on Saturday could
scarcely be said not to have asked for
all they duly got. One favorite was
successful in the card of eight races
which resulted from both the Morang
Handicap (three-year-old fillies) and
the Ailsa Handicap (colts and geld-
ings) being divided.
Whatever they may contribute to
the development of stayers, the 12-
,furlongs (or longer) races which, are
included on every card in Melbourne
are certainly a source of perpetual
confusion to students of form. Every
week sees a different winner, and it is
seldom the favorite. A likely ex-
planation is that most of the alleged
“stayers” contesting these off-season
events have little pretension to such
title. Winner of Saturday’s Ngarveno
Handicap (13f.) was the eight-year-
old Spear Chief gelding Binnia Gift,
who finished with a long run from
far back in the field to beat the
maiden performer Sunhaven by a
half-length. The previous week
Binnia Gift had finished seventh in
a 10-furlongs race at Ballarat.
The withdrawal of both Ungar and
St. Razzle robbed the well-endowed
Tullamarine Handicap of a good deal
of interest, but punters made a fair
fist of sizing up those left in the
field. Nilam (J. Purtell), Chanak and
Derrymore were the first three in the
betting, and they finished in that
order. Leaving the others well in
the rear, Nilam and Chanak fought
out a splendid finish head-and-head
down the straight until Chanak, veer-
ing wide off the course, enabled the
grey Nilam to win by a short half-
head. On the face of it. Chanak
seemed a mite unlucky, and certainly
dispelled the notion that he has had
his day; still, erratic running towards
the finish is usually the sign of a
thoroughly tired horse. He should
shape better next time he tackles the
same distance, or even a shade fur-
ther. Worth £l5OO in all, the Tulla-
marine carried a fourth prize of £5O,
which was. bagged by another grey,
Our Land.
On a heavy track, topweights, if
they win at all, usually do so early
in the day, before the course is cut
“Stop singing out ‘Come on, Sweetiepie'!”
about. Saturday’s last race, the
Macedon Highweight, however, pro-
vided an exception, being fought 9ut
by Comic Court (10.3) and High
Production <9.12). Other runners had
no answer to Comic Court’s sheer
class and High Production’s love for
the Moonee Valley course. With
Purtell, plus a fair slab of lead, in
the saddle, Comic Court won by a
neck —a promising beginning for his
spring campaign.
Betting charts issued this early in
the piece for the two Cups are always
good for a laugh. One sighted a
week prior to Comic Court’s win
actually bad him quoted straight-out
at considerably less than , double-
figure odds for the Caulfield Cup;
now, presumably, he is an even hotter
“favorite.” Why the assumption that
the Caulfield and not the Melbourne
Cup will be the main mission of a
colt who did much the best of the
three-year-olds in just missing a place
in last year’s Melbourne Cup; who
has pretty consistently beaten Carbon
Copy in Melbourne; and who will
receive 71b. from Carbon Copy in the
Melbourne Cup?
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances); —
Three-year-old: Purple Prince, 1;
Niska, 2; Golden Tan, 3; Trial:
Marahga, I; Messenger, 2; Annabel
Lee, 3. Hobartville Stakes: Field
Boy, 1; Epsom Boy, 2; Achilles, 3.
Warwick Stakes: Bembrook, 1; San
Domenico, 2; Vagabond, 3. Camp-
belltown Handicap: Cognac, 1;
Wattle, 2; Persist, 3. Spring Handi-
cap : Cape Neddick, 1; Count
Cyrano, 2; Courier, 3. Glenlee
Handicap: Bold Archer, 1; New-
borough, 2; Amar, 3.
♦ * * *
In winning the £l5OO “News
Chronicle” tournament at Brighton
(Eng.) last week, British pro. Richard
Burton reeled off the sort of golf
that will ever remain a dream for
most exponents of the game. ’With
rounds of 68, 66, 64 and 68, Burton
left the 72 holes behind in 266. His
66 equalled the course record and his
64 shattered it. There must be some
quality in the air at Brighton; the
previous tournament record of 268
was established there in 1937, while
in another sphere of sport a nag
named Mopsus once covered a mile
on the Brighton racecourse in 1.32
a world record which Americans
amusingly overlook in staking claims
for their own.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Australian Davis Cup team-
manager Cliff Sproule will be faced
with a poser when it comes to
nominating his doubles pair for the
challenge round. For the United
States national championships Sproule
broke up the usual pairing of
Bromwich-Sedgman and played
Bromwich-Sidwell and Sedgman-Wor-
thington; result was an all-Australian
final. The youngsters, Sedgman and
Worthington, caused the upset of the
tournament by tossing the U.S. Cup
doubles pair Talbert-Mulloy, 6-4, 1-6,
7-5, 9-7, and went on to easily beat
the Italians, Cucelli and Del Bello, in
the semi-final. In the other semi,
Bromwich and Sidwell played relent-
less tennis do defeat Gonzales and
Parker 13-11, 10-8, 10-8, which must
be close to a record number of games
for a straight-sets victory.
* * * *
Nearly 60,000 turned up at M.C.G.
to see the battle between Essendon
and Melbourne for a place in the
V.F.L. “four.” The Dons had first
use of the wind, and ran to 5.1-2.2
in a game in which both sides threw
everything into defence. At half-
time it was Melbourne by 7.4 to 7.2.
Then came rain; the big Melbourne
men lost control of the high stuff
and the Dons booted 5,7 to a point,
leaving them 40 points ahead at the
final change. McKenzie kicked four
quick goals for Melbourne, but it
wasn’t enough, and in heavy showers
the Dons went on to “the four,”
15.11-11.10. A 10.11-5.11 defeat
of Geelong clinched North’s place,
making it Carlton, Collingwood,
North Melbourne and Essendon.
There’s a round to go before the
finals, and the big game on Saturday
will be North and Carlton. Even if
Footscray beats Essendon, a win for
Melbourne will bring the Demons
level with the Dons, who probably
have the necessary percentage mar-
gin. Other games last Saturday
South beat Hawthorn, 14.8-8.14;
’Wood beat ’Scray, 9.19-7.14; Rich-
mond beat Fitzroy, 9.8-6.15; and
Carlton beat St. Kilda, 13.17-10.14.
* * * *
In contrast to their rough-house
tactics against University the previous
week, Gordon Rugby Union team
played in most genteel fashion to
down St. George 10-5 on Saturday.
Surprise-packet of the Sydney com-
petition round, however, was turned
on by the Drummoyne men, who, after
several weeks of licking the wooden
spoon, instead went stone berserk and
licked the comp, runners-up, Uni-
versity—9-3. In other matches Easts
beat Eastwood, 23-11, Manly ac-
counted for Norths, 13-6, and Wests
had Parramatta’s measure, 17-6.
* * * *
The Australian Rugby Unionists
commenced their New Zealand tour
with mixed luck, winning a game
and losing a star player. Against
Bay of Plenty the tourists won 35-8,
an effort to which full-back Brian Piper
contributed his share, converting four
tries and kicking two penalties.
Piper, however, had the stiff luck to
break an arm in an accident the
’ following day.
* * * *
Always in good form at Leich-
hardt, N.S.W. flyweight champion
Jimmy Hogg (Bst.) added Billy
Roberts (8.50 to his list of victims
there last week. There was not much
in it ; the taller and heavier Roberts
certainly won the first four rounds,
and for a while after had the upper
hand, but Hogg’s greater experience
. prevailed.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
m
m
n
v'
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Mardware and general stores.
PRISMATIC
COMPASSES
For use in marking boundaries,
lining fences and taking bearings.
MARK 111 Liquid £B/10/-
( Illustrated )
MARK IX Dry.. £3/10/-
Also surveyors’ instruments,
clinometers; hand and
dumpy levels.
i
Write for
particulars.
- \
For Sale.
CLIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole
year, yields 2001 b.; has 20ft. runners
loaded with large red tomatoes. Disease
and drought resistant. Sensation. in
America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED CO., Kurnell, Sydney.
m
SHEEP
DIP
C 7
HffifX'W:'- v<*
K *V SHEEP DIP
.rPP
■I
. :
Kills:
I s
Pi
1111^
ns? &
SHEEP TICKS
(KEDS)
BODY LICE
FOOT LICE
PREVENTS POST-DIPPING LAMENESS
AND REINFESTATION
Obtainable at provincial centres and from manufacturers
W. K. BURNSIDE PTY. LTD.
' JEFFCOTT STREET,
MELBOURNE, VICTORIA. FJ 6674.
TFHE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
MELBOURNE SHEEP SHOW.
“Mr,”: The show, essentially,
was a fine-woolled one, 233 of
the 279 Merinos contesting fine
and super-fine classes. In the
super-fine the champion came
from the historic Winton Stud,
Campbelltown (Tas.), the ram
owned by J. M. Taylor, whose
family has bred stud Merinos
for more than three generations.
A magnificent animal, densely
covered with an excellent, soft-
handling fleece, this ram was
sired by the 1948 Hobart
champion. He displayed special
quality along the hind-leg, and
withstood a strong challenge
from the reserve champion,
entered by Mount Gow Estate.
The Mount Gow sheep, beauti-
fully-woolled, gives an indica-
tion of the rising strength of the
stud. In superfine ewes Mount
Gow won three of the four
places, and took the fine-wool
ewe championship with an aged
ewe carrying an outstanding,
long-stapled fleece of excellent
handling qualities.
In medium and strong wools
Murray Downs won all except
one of the ram classes in which
it competed, and supplied both
champion and reserve-champion
rams in each section. Glen-
donald Stud (A. McDonald,
Boyeo) was impressive in the
ewes with champions in medium-
and strong-wool sections. Most
competition came from F. A.
and H. W. Ham, exhibitors of
medium- and strong-wool re-
serve champions.
Corriedales were more
numerous than for many years,
and their trueness to type was
well maintained. Quality was
far ahead of pre-war standards,
and no breed had bigger animals.
There were a few new exhibitors,
but most of them came from
old-established Victorian studs.
The champion, a large-framed
three-year-old, came from W. M-
Moodie’s Nigretta East Stud, the
reserve going to the Guthrie
Stud, Geelong, which also exhi-
bited reserve - champion ewe.
There was little between the two
rams. Both carried a dense,
long-stapled fleece of high
quality. The Guthrie entry, by the
way, is by Edinburgh, by Rymill,
which held the reserve position
to a ram sold for 575gns, in
1946.
.Western District Polwarths
this year were bigger than usual
and, in some cases, rivalled the
Corriedales for size. Tasmanian
studs were well represented.
Grand champion horned ram is
owned by Dowling, Gumming
and Co. This animal had great
depth and expanse of thigh and
flank, with a bulky fleece of
brightness and character. Re-
serve went to W. Weatherly,
Mortlake. The champion polled
Polwarth ram and reserve grand
champion was shown by E. J.
Prevost, Glasslough (Tas.).
Of the 332 British breeds
strongest section was Dorset
Horns. The best ram was ex-
hibited by A. E. Enders, Stan-
hope. Fleshed evenly from
shoulder to hindquarters, with a
well-shaped head set on wide,
evenly-balanced shoulders, the
champion was a magnificent
animal. Reserve went to a stylish
ram of good conformation
entered by K. G. Luke, Deep-
fields, Romsey.
Romneys attracted a large
gallery of fanciers. Entries
showed an increase of 36 on last
year’s figure and owners found
competition keen. The ram
championship was shared by
Ivor Manton, Monegeeta, and
the Myer Emporium, Mt. Eliza.
The champion ewe was exhibited
by O. J. Syme, Macedon, and
the reserve by Howard Yelland,
Newlyn.
Championship in Border
Leicesters went to E. Hayes and
Sons, Barfold Downs, The
champion stands well, has a nice
thick carcass and carries an
excellent, even fleece. His twin
brother topped Sydney stud sales
this year at 115gns. after taking
class honors at Sydney last year.
The reserve comes from Kelso
Park, Mooroopna. Best ewe of
the breed also came from there.
All champion awards in
Lincolns went to Garvald Vale
Stud. J. A. Christie, Byaduk
North, the owner of the cham-
pions, has shown Lincolns in
Melbourne for over 56 years
and can remember having missed
only one show.
There were only 10 South-
downs, which was a pity, and
this is put down to the fact that
the Sheep Show is held too close
to Melbourne Royal to attract
breeders who have their eye on
the September event. Both
championships went to G. J.
Mclntosh, Nar Nar Goon. Re-
serve ram was shown by Kelso
Park and the reserve ewe by
Comely Bank, Cora Lynn.
Dips—Ancient and Modern.
“A. 8.”: The articles by
“Bungaree” (B. 27/7/’49 and
3/8/’49) give a feeling of being
left hanging in mid-air. The
information on arsenic -r- the
ancient dip—is true and infor-
mative to the modern flock-
owner. However, no mention is
made of the modern dips, such
as the D.D.T. liquid dips.
These dips, the reverse of
arsenical preparations, are easy
to mix and do not require con-
tinual stirring, and
the sheep are in no
danger of poisoning
because of shear-
cuts, dog-bites and
so on. The D.D.T.
dip is fully effec-
tive against lice and
ticks (keds), with the
added benefit of the
long-lasting residual
action of D.D.T.
This last feature is
certainly not a bene-
fit derived from
arsenic.
However, with the
advent of any new
drug, no matter what
may be its intended
use, mistakes will
occur when it is first
applied in a new
field of action. It’s
a far cry from the
D.D.T. control of
the typhus scourge
on the Continent to-
wards the end of
World War I to
modern sheep-dip-
ping in Australia,
but extensive labora-
tory tests and prac-
tical application by
an increasing num-
ber of graziers have
proved D.D.T. to. be
a leader in the
sheep-dipping field. In fact,
one maker of a D.D.T. liquid
dip unconditionally guarantees
his product’s effectiveness. That
in itself is sufficient recommen-
dation in these days of throat-
cutting. Good work, “Dunga-
ree,” but perhaps another article
could be devoted to “Dipping—
the Modern Method.”
Malnutrition in Piglets.
“A.M.M.”: From weaning-
time to four months old is the
period of greatest piglet mor-
tality. Cause is often improper
feeding and lack of essential
elements in the feed. Malnutri-
tion does not mean under-
nourishment ; it means faulty
nutrition. Malnutrition can be
prevalent among overfed piglets
as among underfed ones.
There are two main classes
of feeds: those which give
energy and those which give pro-
tection. The latter are the more
important, as they contain the
essential minerals and vitamins.
Protective foods, when fed to
pigs, build up a strong body and
help the pigs to resist disease.
Weaning-time is the most
critiqal of a pig’s life. Sudden
changes from sow’s milk to
foods which have little resemb-
lance to it in fat, protein and
mineral will cause
digestive upsets, which in turn
cause a severe check to growth.
Pleurisy, t.b. and other similar
ailments which aren’t discern-
ible outwardly show up later,
and the carcass is unfit for ex-
port and perhaps for human
consumption. Swine husbandry
is worked on artificial lines to a
certain extent, and for that rea-
son as well as their rapid
growth pigs are likely to suffer
from malnutrition.
Pigs fed on a liberal ration of
boiled animal offal at slaughter-
houses are very healthy, and the
mortality-rate is low. It is
recognised that proteins of
animal origin are far better than
proteins of vegetable origin, as
certain essentials are missing
from the latter.
It pays handsomely to give
suckers a teaspoonful of cod-
liver oil or animal-fat daily,
mixed with the meal ration in
the creep for about 10 days prior
to weaning. Gradually increase
this to one tablespoonful per
pig, but not to pigs for slaughter,
as this may affect the quality of
the meat. As a guide it can be
mentioned that the fat content
of sow’s milk is about 7 p.c.,
cow’s milk 3.8, whey .08, skim-
milk .08 and butter-milk 1.13.
It will be seen how important
supplementary feeding is in the
post-weaning ration. No amount
of good feeding is sufficient un-
less sanitation and cleanliness
“ Hey , Wait on — it's too big for a
shanghai!"
are observed and warm, dry,
well - ventilated quarters free
from draughts are provided.
Fuse Renewals.
“Metax”: Fuses have the
habit of melting and cutting off
parts of the power-supply at all
sorts of inconvenient times and
without respect for remote
localities.
Fuse failures arise from such
faults as: 1, swinging overhead
lines fouling each other or some
conducting object; 2, failure in
an appliance —occasionally a
lamp does it when it burns out;
3, failure of some fixed part of
the, circuit, e.g., the wiring be-
hind the switchboard or where
it joins into a switch terminal.
If the wires swing clear again
without serious damage faults
of the first type are self-clear-
ing. The second type can be
cleared by unplugging the faulty
appliance. The third type are
jobs for the expert.
It is when a fuse melts owing
to a cause of the first or second
type that the home fuse-repairer
can be useful. Fuses nowadays
are of the removable type. A
piece of tinned copper-wire
bridges a pair of terminals fitted
to an insulating-block, which
can be completely removed from
the circuit by handling only the
insulated part. To renew a fuse
withdraw the block from its
base. Slacken the terminal
screws and remove the old wire
ends. Thread the new wire
around its slightly tortuous jsath
(this can be checked from a
charged fuse) and secure the
ends under the washers on the
screws. Beware of nipping the
wire off when tightening. One
precaution is not to pull too
tightly around the screws. Leave
a little slack to pull up as the
screws turn.
If the new fuse melts as soon
as it is plugged in, with no
appliances switched on, it points
to a fault in a fixed part of the
circuit, and the job is for an ex-
pert after all. Inserting a
stronger fuse will not help, and
may lead only to a more expen-
sive failure and danger of fire.
But in cases where the fuse
holds, the fault has been re-
moved or has removed itself, and
appliances should operate as
usual without expert help. In all
cases it is best that fuse-wire
sizes be expertly prescribed and
supplied. Avoid using wire
scraps, as both the material and
the size must be correct.
Beating Sprogs.
“Ware”: When it is impos-
sible to raise- plants from seed
because of sparrows, knock the
top and bottom out of a box so
that it leaves onty a frame.
Cover the top with a fine-mesh
wire and keep the plants under
it until they must be planted out.
To protect young plants until
they are too large to be pulled
up or damaged, cover each with
a large powdered-milk tin
from which the bottom and top
have been removed. The tin
may be pressed into the earth
while the plant is small and
gradually raised to allow a
maximum of sunlight without
possibility of damage. There
were no losses in a third batch


as in great
grandfather’s day—
Pastoralists profit from
the complete and efficient
service of A.M.L.&F.
Sale of wool • Stock and produce
Pastoral finance • Station requirements
In c. in England 1863
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Head Office for Australia: 4 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
and at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches — N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Charleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc, Agents: McPhie & Co.- Pty.,
Ltd., ’ Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
AMUR
THE DAVIDSON & SMITH
“Bourke” Special
POLEY SADDLE
WA
m
.
i
■&SBBSS
m
LIGHT SADDLES
'■■l'
PRICE
£l4/6/6
COMPLETE
a superior quality saddle,
built on best quality solid
gullet steel plated tree, with
long kip leather flaps, narrow
waist. A saddle which will
give the horse and rider
every comfort, mounted with
Ring surcingle, improved
girth, 1 iin. Bevelled stirrup
leathers and nickel plated
stirrup irons, *
A very handsome
well made PARK
SADDLE with
Hogshin seat and
pads, steel plated
tree, white serge
lined, double girth
straps, completely mounted with
Double buckle folded leather
girth, 1 ring surcingle, 1
stirrup leathers and nickel plated
stirrup irons.
PRICE £l4/6/6 COMPLETE
As above with Hogskin covered
skirts, seat and English style knee
pads, best kip leather in flaps,
mounted as above.
PRICE £l6/10/- COMPLETE
Catalogues free pn application
DAVIDSON & SMITH
Manufacturing Saddlers
Cnr. Bourke & Liverpool Streets, East Sydney
’Phone: FA 5013
Insure against PKOUGttT
m
■
DELIVERY
IMMEDIATE
mm
500 bag capacity ( 1 500
bushels) height 18 feet,
diameter 11 ft. 6 in. Price
in 18-gauge steel, £ 225/-/-.
In 16-gauge steel, £251 /5/-.
1000 bag capacity ( 3000
bushels) height 21 ft. 4 in.,
diameter 16 ft. 8 in. Price
in 18-gauge steel, £405.
All prices ex factory
Adelaide. Mast and block
not provided. Crating extra.
Be sure of carrying your stock during drought periods by installing Goldsbrough
Grain Silos NOW! Being all-steel, they provide protection against all weathers
and are vermip-proof. The illustration shows an actual installation of two 500-
bag Goldsbrough Silos. Write or call for full particulars to your nearest
Goldsbrough Mort Branch or Agent.
-WV
AND COMPANY LIMITED
(INC. IN VICTORIA)
BRANCHES AND AGENCIES THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
of silver-beet plants raised in
this way—the first two batches
were a total loss to sparrows.
Rabbits Aren’t Stupid.
“Jim N.”: Defenceless in
their physique, the rabbit has to
fall back on strategy for exist-
ence. Trapping for a living, I
noticed in one warren that the
rabbits seemed to come out of
the burrows over the traps, and,
lightly as the traps were set, no
rabbit was caught. Puzzling
over this, I mentioned it to an
old trapper, and he put me up
to a! dodge to catch them. This
was to flatten with the hand a
small space to give the impres-
sion that the trap was set there
and at the same time to roughen
the earth above the actual trap.
This was tried. Rabbits leaped
over the smooth place and
jumped into the trap.
On another occasion, when
out shooting, a sheepdog of
mine chased two rabbits into a
hollow log. The aperture of
the log was too small for the
dogs to enter, so one end was
fired. X went to the other end,
standing back about 30ft., com-
manding the dog to lay down.
The rabbits could be plainly
seen, and, of course, they could
see me. When the fire was flam-
ing up I was astounded to see
the rabbits rush out through the
fire and away to safety.
Have you ever noticed how
a rabbit, when the dogs are on
its tail, will head flat-out for a
netting fence? At the fence it
balks, and , the oncoming
hounds smack into the netting
and bounce back, while the
bunny vanishes along the fence.
And a chased rabbit will head
right into a mob of sheep if he
gets the chance.
White Australorps?
“Chickfeed”: This is the
story of Whitey, maybe a name
to remember in the Australian
poultry industry. Three seasons
ago he was hatched, among
thousands of Australorps, on
the poultry-farm of Alex Leh-
feldt, at Kalapa, near Rock-
hampton. Australorps normally
are all blacks, and Lehfeldt,
who for 16 years had been care-
ful to keep his breeding stock
pure, was disgusted to see
among his chicks a male bird
which, except for a black stripe
along its back, was white. Leh-
feldt would have destroyed the
freak there and then had not his
children claimed it as a pet.
They named it Whitey, and
reared it into a lusty cockerel.
As Whitey grew and moulted
he shed the black-feather line
on his back, and after the adult
moult had only an odd black
feather in the flights and on the
breast. His beak and legs, in-
stead of being black, were black
and white.
Curious by now, Lehfeldt
mated Whitey with Australorp
hens. The result was astonish-
ing. Instead of the expected
mixture of blacks and black-
and-whites Whitey’s offspring
were white, except for a small
black stripe, and as they grew
and moulted they became whiter.
In the following season
Whitey was mated with his
white daughters, and one-third
of the hatch was pure white. In
the present breeding season, the
fourth generation of the experi-
ment, white males and females
are being mated, and the pro-
geny are as white as any Leg-
horn.
These whites are typical Aus-
tralorps except for color. They
lay a brown egg and equal the
Macks in weight. Their im-
portance is that as well as hav-
ing the high egg production of
the blacks they meet the de-
mands of the poultry-meat ex-
port trade, which are for white-
fleshed, white-legged and white-
feathered birds.
Can the breed be held?
Poultry experts, Government
and commercial men agree that
the evidence so far is all Whitey’s
way. Whitey, they think, was a
mutant, one of those rare oc-
currences on which new breeds
may be built. A mutant carries
variations to a marked degree.
Where variations are dominant,
in color, for instance, they may
be used to advantage.
Lehfeldt was asked to exhibit
the whites at the Queensland
Poultry Society’s show in Bris-
bane and at the Brisbane Exhi-
bition, The reaction of the
judges will be interesting.
Beetle Allies.
“K.Mc.”: The Chrysomela
hyperici and Gemallata beetles
are on the way to wipe out St.
John’s Wort at Bright (Vic.).
The appetite of these beetles,
brought from England and
France respectively, is confined
to St. John’s Wort, They kill
the plant by continuous feeding
on the leaves, and when the
supply of leaves gives out the
beetles die themselves.
Since 1939, when the beetles
were liberated in the Bright dis-
trict, they have destroyed large
patches of wort. Farmers have
topdressed these areas with
super., and where possible have
Idosened up the surface and
sown pastures. Worthless land
a few years ago is now back in
full production. It is another
victory for C.5.1.R.0. Last year
this organisation liberated mil-
lions of the beetles in South and
West Australia and in Maori-
land, besides sending a shipment
to California.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sundowner”: An 18in. band
of vertical or overhanging sheet
metal with its lower edge at
least 3ft. from the ground will
prevent possums from climbing
a tree-trunk or building. A
guard of spiny shrubs will also
serve. Tie in closely so that tips
fan out from the trunk.
“Big Billy”: Where “steely”
wool has been detected lack of
copper may be corrected by
supplying a lick of copper sul-
phate (bluestone) mixed with
salt. Use loz. of copper per
week for 200 sheep. Mixture
must be available throughout the
year. It will first be necessary
to know how much salt 200
sheep will eat in a week, as it
varies between summer and
winter. Once this is known dis-
solve loz. of bluestone in two
pints of water and mix salt in it.
Cover the trough containing the
lick.
“0.H.G.”: Early spring is the
time for planting onions, which
need a loose, friable soil not
over-rich. Brown Spanish is a
good keeping kind and should be
in by August. Cut tops off
onions to within Hin. of bulb
and cut a little off roots before
planting. Later plant odorless
for summer salads. Do not plant
onions too deeply, keep soil well
stirred during growing period.
When onions are ready to pull,
leave for several days lying on
bed, then cut tops and roots off
or burn mots to ensure keeping.
Treated thus, onions do not
sprout, and will keep for the
entire winter.
“Young G.”: Difficult solder-
ing in a confined area such as a
wireless set can be made easier
if connections are first bound
together with fuse-wire.
To check an out-
break of scours in calves put a
shovelful of burnt lime in a
bucketful of water. Allow to
settle. Use the clear fluid at the
top at the rate of half a pint per
calf in the milk.
“Helldud”: To prevent twist-
bits, augers, etc., from binding in
hardwood, file sides below head,
thus tapering them and giving
added clearance.
“K.T.”; When hens are kept
in large numbers see that suffi-
cient nests are provided. One to
every five birds is satisfactory.
Otherwise laying will possibly
be reduced, and many eggs will
be broken when the hens try to
scramble into too few nests.
“Rameses”: An interesting ex-
periment is to be renewed shortly
on the wool industry. The first
Hampshire Down sheep exported
from England to Australia for
41 years are being shipped to
Victoria at the end of September.
The sheep will join Lindsay
Field’s' flock of 60,000, where
they will be crossed with Merinos
in an attempt to get fine wool
and the Hampshire Down’s
weight of mutton.


TOOTH'S SHEAF STOUT
Brewed and bottled by TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
••.14S.M
--
id
Gu*a^.:
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1927.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the Integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fides of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulbum St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Zouth Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
QC4
"For Business or Pleasure
FLY TO HON 6 KONG
"O£A
—IfSS THAN 30 HOURS AWAY
f
_ cT
HONG KONG
LAB U AN
DARWIN
SYDNEY
Consult your travel agent or
tfantaa Entjutet/Htoveup
AUSTRALIA'S INTERNATIONAL AIRLINE
in association with British Overseas Airways Corporation.
FLY by comfortable Skymaster on this direct route
—Sydney, Darwin, Labuan (North Borneo),
Hong Kong, and save days of. valuable travel
time. You’ll enjoy fine meals in the air, a first
class personal steward service, and you’ll arrive in
Hong Kong, completely refreshed, less than
30 hours after leaving Sydney.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S NO. I CPU
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“There’s nothing quite so pitiful as
a woman with nothing to do except
have a good time.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun."
Except one that’s had it.
4* 4* 4*
“For sale: Two tailored pants, one
grey, other cream, fit big man.”
—Suburban paper.
Specially made for a tall
gentleman with a split person-
ality.
4* 4* 4*
Hammer and Sickle.
We’ll use the hammer, if we’re
wise,
To nail the crimson Commas’
lies ;
The sickle, though, we’ll let
them keep —
So that the whirlwind they may
reap.
Brian Bureau.
“A young couple urgently require
unfurn. flat, area this paper.”
—Suburban paper.
A bit cramped for space, eh?
4* 4* 4*
“Does the whole tram turn to stare
at you when you get on?”
— Woman’s paper.
It depends on the height of
the footboard.
4* 4* 4*
“For sale: Malvern Star free-
wheel-sprocket bike, front and back
breaks in good condition.”
—Local paper.
Someone is sure to snap this
up quickly.
4* 4* 4*
“Although wheeled a'round in a
perambulator by a nurse, he was still
full of spirit.”— “Reader’s Digest.”
Smuggled in by visiting rela-
tives, no doubt.
4* 4* 4*
“The average woman studies her
face.” — Woman’s paper.
Often without knowing what
to make of it.
4* 4* 4*
“The third card party of the series,
arra degnßßßn,fsl3asea series, ar-
ranged to augment funds, is down for
August 17.”
—Suburban paper.
Only cryptic playcrs^invited.
“Shark-meshing official for trial.”
—Sydney “Sun.’''
Something fishy about his ad-
ministration?
Troubles Smoolhedf Over.
“There’ll be a sigh of relief from
housewives now that restrictions have
been lifted on the use of electric
irons.” — Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
For weeks the iron had stood
deserted.
While father, mumbling fierce
asides.
Watched creases fading from his
strides,
And sons went off to work
rough-shirted,
Though neighbors just across the
way
Broke regulations night and day.,
But now the iron’s again in
action.
And great is mother’s joy
indeed
To cope with every pressing
need
That drove the household to
distraction;
Her brows fio more in frowns
are bent.
And she is in her element.
BERT.
Spiggotty Style.
“A duel that the former Argentine
Foreign Minister, Dr. Bramuglia,
was to have fought with Argentine’s
Ambassador to the U.S., Dr. Remo-
rino, was called off and honor con-
sidered satisfied when Dr. Bramuglia’s
seconds said their principal couldn’t
remember what he was supposed to
have said to Dr. Remorino that was
ground for a duel.”
Such satisfactory settlements
as this, saving much gore, are
not uncommon in Latin America,
as I can testify from my own
experience.
I first crossed swords —in
purely a figurative sense —with
Senor Cascara y Vacuant,
Santa Rhumba’s Minister for
Siestas, at a diplomatic recep-
tion at San Fairyann, the tiny
republic’s capital. The senor
came into the conservatory as I
was enjoying a rather playful
session with a nifty brunette.
“Vamoose, Plantagenet,” I
said. “You’re cluttering up the
palmscape.”
He stepped out from behind
a palm, “Senor,” he said
hotly, “what you do ’ere?”
I stared at him. “Senor,” I
answered icily, “your magnifi-
cent powers of observation,
coupled with a remarkable
capacity for ratiocination, will
indubitably have informed your
microscopic nous that at the
moment I am engaged in the
exacting and complicated task
“ Hullo, cocky! Scratch cocky!”
of repairing a locomotive’s
superheater tubes.”
He looked at me in a puzzled
way for a moment. Then, livid
with fury, he burst out: “Senor,
you ’ave my—’ow you say?—
wife in your arms!”
“Senor,” I replied magnani-
mously, “say no more—-I accept
without qualification your—’ow
you say?—most abject apology.”
I kissed the lady fervently and
passed her over. “The senor is
to be congratulated on his taste,”
I said gallantly.
He went, but I could sense
that he was rather annoyed
about something.
A few weeks later, at another
diplomatic function, I was dis-
cussing the exact science of
banana - bending with the
Minister for Fiestas when Senor
Cascara y Vacuant, in passing,
trod heavily on my foot.
“That, you fish-faced, lolly-
legged, quarter-witted blankard,”
I remarked in the best diplo-
matic terminology, “happens to
be my plate-of-meat you planked
your big hoof on.”
The Minister drew himself up
haughtily to his full sft. lin.
“No mans call Senor Cascara y
Vacuant ze lolly-legs, senor.
Eet ees bads insult.”
“And as well,” I went on
evenly, “you’re a goggle-eyed
skunk.”
At that Cascara pulled off his
glove and threw it at my feet.
“I demands satisfaction for zat
mortal insult,” he said. “Eet is
right, no?”
“Yes, don’t they?” I replied
testily.
“My seconds vill call on yours
to arrange ze details,” he went
on.
Determined to get in some
much-needed practice for the
coming duel, I carved the beef
at dinner that night, afterwards
putting in half an hour at darts
to get my eye in. Next morning,
however, my confidence had a
sharp bend put in it when I
learned from a friend that my
opponent was reputedly the best
swordsman in Santa Rhumba.
When Cascara’s seconds
arrived and I was informed that,
as the challenged, I had the
choice of weapons, I immedi-
ately nominated hot custard-pies
at 20ft. At first they expostu-
lated, protesting that their prin-
cipal had had no experience
with these weapons. I was
adamant, however, and insisted
that it was pies—and hot ones
—or nothing. Perforce they had
to accept.
We met at dawn in a grove of
flowering loofahs. The sight of
the beautiful shrubs immediately
gave me an itch between the
shoulder-blades. The frosty air
had given me an appetite, and
it was as much as I could do to
refrain from apologising there
and then to Cascara and wolfing
the weapons. But honor held
me back.
One of my seconds had just
finished surreptitiously packing
my opening shot with a handful
of nails when my other second
whispered to me that he had just
seen one of my opponent’s
seconds slipping a detonator in
his pie.
The low-down dastard! It
was futile cursing myself for a
fool for not having thought of
it myself, so I determined to
make the amende honorable, in
view of the difference in lethal
quality between nails and deton-
ators,
A few seconds later my
seconds approached those of my
opponent and mentioned that I
had no desire to spoil the senor’s
beautiful cravat, which, as my
country’s champion pie-thrower,
I must assuredly do with my
opening shot. Then they touched
casually on the fact that in.re-
ferring to him as a skunk I had
really intended sincerely to
flatter him, as in my country the
skunk ranked high in popularity
with the ladies —at least, some
time after its demise.
When these tidings were con-
veyed to the Minister he beamed,
rushed across and kissed me on
both cheeks, and arm in arm we
departed to toast in a magnum
of champagne the restoration of
honor. I wondered afterwards
if he was worried about what 1
had secreted in my pie.
Bo.


THE OTHER FRLLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2\A. per line.
Rice in N.Q.
Good rice undoubtedly grows in the
Riverina with irrigation, but in coastal
North Queensland it will grow under
natural rainfall conditions—successfully,
too, as three young pioneers have proved.
They are in one of those forgotten areas
of the Far North —Bailey’s Creek, 35
miles north of Mossman, their nearest
supply-centre. They have no modern
amenities, they live in primitive shacks
in a lOOin. annual rainfall area, and their
sole means of communication with civi-
lisation is a 35ft. launch.
Their first rice-seed was gathered from
a few plants growing wild in a swamp at
Bailey’s Creek, probably surviving from
a patch planted in that area 40 years or
more ago by one of N.Q.’s greatest
optimists —John Moffat. Saving all the
seed from their first year’s planting, they
replanted it over four acres. They have
just finished harvesting that four acres of
first-class rice with sickles ; they threshed
it as the Chinese coolies do.
The pioneers have faith in their ven-
ture—they have just landed on their
lonely beach a Farmall tractor and wheat-
planting drill to be used for their rice.
The machinery was transported in the
35ft. launch in rough seas—the front
wheels of the tractor down the tiny hold
and the rear wheels on deck. It was
loaded at Mossman by pushing it off the
bank of the river.
The young settlers plan to go in for rice
culture in a big way and are investing
about £2OOO in machinery, including a mill
and combine-header from England. The
Mossman Chamber of Commerce is right
behind them, but officialdom has ignored
them, not even providing an access road
or a single amenity for civilised existence.
The credit will belong wholly to the enter-
prising settlers when they succeed, as I’m
sure they will. — Gip (Q.).
“After a Job”
“Acting Regional Director” states (B.
17/8/’49) that conditions described by
me (B. 3/ 8 / ’49) would not be tolerated
in any office of the Commonwealth Em-
ployment Service, adding “and I can con-
fidently say that they do not, in fact,
exist.” He mentions a number of appre-
ciative letters received by the C.E.S. as
evidence that “a very satisfactory service
is being given to the public generally.”
Speaking generally, he may be right;
particularly, however, I know what I’m
talking about. A small point, but I think
important, as it gives one slant on the atti-
tude of interviewing officers to job-
seekers, concerns the hobbled chairs
of the C.E.S. It was not, as printed in
B. 3/8/’49, the officer’s chair that was
tied to the front table-leg, but my own,
the idea being to prevent me, an appli-
cant, from edging up too close to the
officer.
The officer who interviewed me be-
gan his work most cordially. He sug-
gested that I apply for a spare-time job
as night-cleaner at the Transport De-
partment. He certainly tried to help,
warning me “For heaven’s sake don’t
tell them that you have another job or
they’ll knock you back.” Thus primed,
I went to the Transport Department and
found a stumbling-block in their demand
for a reference from my last employer.
I thought the best course was to try them
with the truth of having another job.
They knocked me back.
I had two more interviews with the
employment-officer. In the last interview
he had lost his cordiality and said that
when I came again I should not just ride
him —“Ride the other officers as well.”
I can understand anyone wishing to be
rid of a bad penny, but on those facts
I would not say that “all officers are
impressed with the absolute necessity of
affording every possible assistance to
people seeking employment.”
The conditions were “tolerated in an
office of the Commonwealth Employ-
ment Service”—in the Head Office in
Sydney.— Spike (N.S.W.).
Wayside Pubs
The many justifiable complaints about
the failure of Melbourne’s swill-houses
to provide accommodation for the travel-
ling public can also be levelled at many
hotels in provincial cities and the larger
towns, but there are still a few public
houses that offer comfort, hospitality and
good cheer to the traveller. In most cases
they are to be found in the little one-horse
towns or by the wayside.
Spending all my holidays and spare-
time on a push-bike, I have, in the course
of years, pedalled over the greater part
of Victoria and across the border into
S.A. When on tour, I like my spot, a
good feed, conviviality and, above all, a
roof over my head at night. That’s why
I like to put up at a pub when possible.
But in the cities and bigger towns I have
received many knockbacks in my quest
for accommodation; you can have as
much beer as you care to buy, but you
can sleep under a bridge or alongside a
fence or haystack for all the boss of the
beer-house cares.
It’s a different tale, however, at the
little wayside pub. It, too, might be
booked out with the overflow from a
near-by town or city, but mine host does
his best for you. He won’t see you
sleep under the stars if he can help it. If
there’s a bed to be had, it’s yours; if
there isn’t, a shakedown is prepared.
And the hospitality most of those little
places offer makes you pleased you
were knocked back by the bigger fry.
There is usually the good, square country
meal and a homely fire in the little parlor.
You are introduced to the family, the
guests and the locals who blow in. You
enjoy a few quiet spots, a game of cards
and a yam. You feel at home. — Beau
Forte (Vic.).
H
Parliamentary Privilege
Parliamentary privilege (B. 27/7/’49)
owes its origin to an incident in the reign
of Henry VIII. In 1512 Richard Strode,
M.P. for Plympton, Devon, complained
in Parliament of the practice of the
Devon tinners of sending their refuse
down the streams, thereby increasing the
danger of harbors silting-up.
Tin-mining in Devon and Cornwall
was then controlled by what was known
as the “Tinners’ Parliament,” which had
the right to make regulations governing
the industry—the Stannary Laws, as they
were called. The industry had its own
court, the Stannary Court. Strode, hav-
ing an interest in tin-workings, came
under its jurisdiction. He was ordered
to pay a fine, and, on refusing, was
seized by Stannary Court officers and
lodged in the Stannary prison, Lydford
Castle. Bribing his way out, he got back
to Parliament, which passed the law
granting members immunity from pro-
secution for statements made in Parlia-
ment.
The remedy for abuse of Parliamentary
privilege has always been suspension or
expulsion by Parliament of an offending
member; It has been consistently in-
voked in the “Mother of Parliaments.”
Only a year or so ago Mr. Attlee took
such action against one of his own sup-
porters, In Australia, on the other
hand, there has been lamentable failure
to apply this check. As a result an in-
creasingly unscrupulous use of Parlia-
mentary privilege has caused many in-
dignant people to consider that it should
be abolished.
That would be unfortunate. It would
prevent many matters of public import-
ance from being ventilated. — Kanimbla
(N.S.W.).
Drift to the City
When I wrote. (B. 20/7/’49) “the
country and semi-country schoolteacher
cannot impart the instruction that a city
child acquires,” I was taken to task by
a friend who teaches in one of Perth’s
biggest schools and who assured me that
the one-teacher school, conducted by a
teacher with the necessary knowledge and
the urge to do a good job, is the ideal
font of learning for the young
pupil.
No doubt he is right. The weakness
of the system lies in his stipulation—the
teacher with the necessary qualifications.
The one-teacher school, particularly if
it’s outback, is almost invariably given to
a new teacher, who goes to the job with
his, or her, enthusiasm dampened by the
knowledge that the only farmer in the
district who will board the “chalkie” lives
four miles from the school and won’t
provide transport. Still, he perseveres,
does his best, and within a year or two
becomes a proficient teacher. This means
that he has qualified for a position in a
school nearer a big centre, and he starts
his own drift to the city. His pupils note
the alacrity with which he accepts his
new position, and decide that the example
is worth following. Thereafter the city
indicates promotion and escape from
drudgery.
There’s a job here for the education
departments. Recognise the importance
of the country schools, and staff them
with older, more experienced teachers.
Appreciate the difficulties and disadvan-
tages that go with outback life, do what
is possible to alleviate them, and pay the
teacher accordingly. Establish centres at
which country schoolteachers can
live and form cultural communities,
and from which they could journey
daily, in transport provided free
of charge, to their schools further
out. A 30-mile trip each way in
a decent car would be no worse than a
four- or five-mile tramp each way. In
these centres married teachers could live
in their own homes, and single teachers
could be accommodated in boarding-
houses. And you wouldn’t have the fed-
up, monotony-ridden teacher unconsci-
ously impressing on his classes the joys
of city life and the futility of
pioneering.
It will take time to stop the drift, but
if the job is left to time alone it will stop
when there’s no one left to drift. The
country is a good place in which to start
life, and in which to grow old. We’ve
got to make it a good place for parents
with faith in themselves and ambitions
for their children. — Gravelsnatcher
(W.A.).
Socking the Motorists
N.S.W. motorists are to be victimised
still more. Car licences will cost 15s. in-
stead of the present 10s., and well all have
to pay up another ss. tax. When the
N.R.M.A, approached Mr. O’Sullivan
with a protest that the new rates were
staggering, the Minister replied that the
increase in N.R.M.A. fees was “stagger-
ing,” too.
That, of course, is ridiculous. To start
with, we don’t have to join the N.R.M.A.,
but we have no option about paying the
Government our licence and registration
fees. Secondly, the N.R.M.A. fees were
not raised for more than 25 years. At
the former £1 Is. per annum the fees were
recognised as the cheapest of their kind
in the world. At the present £1 11s. 6d.
they are probably still the cheapest.
Also, the N.R.M.A. gives its members
splendid service. It has, among other
things, a 24-hour road service, a touring
department that offers comprehensive
assistance, and a technical department
guaranteed to solve all the motorist’s
problems.
Personally I’d willingly pay three times
the N.R.M.A.’s present fees, but I strongly
object to giving another penny to a Gov-
ernment that offers in return only bad
roads and an archaic bridge-toll that
wastes my time, energy and petrol.—
Mac (N.S.W,).
Bricks
Among the anomalies in Victoria’s
housing situation the brick takes first
place. The article being “controlled,”
new bricks cost £8 a thousand, but as
they can’t be bought or used without a
permit, secondhand bricks sell at £lO a
thousand. Secondhand bricks are almost
as hard to get as new ones.
A friend of mine bought new bricks
by the thousand about seven years ago,
but hadn’t used them when the regula-
tions came into existence. In the mean-
time the paling-fence between him and
his neighbor gradually rotted and finally
fell down. He found it couldn’t be re-
placed in timber, so he started using his
own bricks and his own labor to protect
his property from the fowls, dogs, children
and other fauna of his neighbor.
Along came the building inspector.
“You can’t build that fence without a
permit,” he said. “And if you do we’ll
demolish it.” “But they’re my bricks and
it’s my labor and I don’t intend to sell
them, so how am I affecting the material
shortage?” “That doesn’t matter,” said
the b.i. After a short wait my friend
started surreptitiously going on with his
building, but he desisted when he found
that the b.i. had ♦been along again and
checked the progress of the fence elabor-
ately with chalk-marks.
Now he is contemplating selling his
bricks as new ones for £B, buying them
back at £lO as secondhand ones, and
going on with his effort in the hope that
there isn’t another regulation to confound
him.
That is an example of how the
stupidity of bureaucrats turns an honest
man into a sort of spieler. There is an-
other variety further along in the same
street who appears to be building a
garage or something. He is employing
two gangs of workmen —one the
bricks and the other immediately smothers
them in cement. Apparently he lives in
the illusory hope that his camouflage will
escape the eye of the lynx-eyed b.i.—
Lord Luvus (Vic.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 31
Across.
I—How often does Captain Cor-
coran say he is seasick back o’
Bourke? (5, 5)
s—Land of eastern fury. (4)
B—Such poetry is nothing to little
Desmond. (4)
direction to a holy man.
Jl'Wine pick is in this gate. (10)
4 As well as a pair of spectacles
after tea. (3)
A cyclic mast, when broken, can
be disastrous. (11)
o—Boredom. (5)
I"—Gas in an actress’s favorite role
upset Muriel. (9)
Seamen set in legal rights to enjoy
other people’s land. (9)
like potential moths. (5)
° Pole joins one in a sudden for-
ward movement as a result of the
bill for fertiliser? (11)
kin B- < 3 >
- 1 ralstaff s waistband, perhaps,
stumbles but these are not single.
(5, 5)
33 (4) S enou ßh to roakc a duck dye.
34—Clod has a drink from a foun-
ds (4 >
Muscle in the opposite direction
to thee. (4)
50 Happens upon a sheep station as
turning towards the centre of
Sydney’s night-life. (4, 6)
(cryptic, type.)
(i Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1 — Unequipped for trawling, the
famous Australian cricket umpire
joins the steamer evenso. (11)
2 Peers at the six’s tallies. (9)
3 Sounds as if he did business with
a pawnbroker, this initiate of the
Eleusinian mysteries. (5)
4 Patricia is such a bird. (3)
5 Fish overturns one of the
grounds. (3)
6 Faith is needed when I leave the
room in a tearing rage. (5)
7 The Kaiser sent a famous tele-
gram from it, though the mes-
sage would have been unintelligible
if it had consisted entirely of
it. (3)
9 —ln the appropriate manner, time
and degree. (4)
12 — Implied by an American his-
torian. (7)
13 — Do I take part in a play with
you and 1000 where the curtains
fell on the careers of Antony and
Cleopatra. (6)
16 — Old French coin of Phoebus. (3)
17 — Food arrives although a bit upset
by the French. (11)
19 — Animal to puff at her. (7)
20 — So altered, the quarry gets the
bird. (6)
21 — Tongue plays about with the
pear-stone. (9)
23—Sheep. (3)
26 —It is the custom to pop in a
moment of suspense. (5)
27 Eliminate coppers who married
Lorna Doone. (4)
28 — Piano among potential caviar
known by experienced people.
* (5)
30 — Such nonsense turns up the rocky
hill. (3)
31 — Was triumphant when rising with
the present thus given. (3)
32 Sailor roadmaker. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 30.


EAS&ioUeO&i—
-10 AU ENOINBtRINO SHOPS
Mailt IN AUSTRALIA -
PRICED WITHIN AUSTRALIA'S REACH
Mars Machine Tools;carry a 12-month Guarantee:against faulty materials or workmanship
✓ ,
v x
fiLJi
. '
ir,.
m
m
T;cs r :! l i
f
t-r
%C
tL '
THE “MARS”
HEAVY DUTY
RADIAL DRILL
U.-W I »*&< afe^’/A
I
■<y»
MHH
B
-
w
->•
111
■
THE “MARS”
HIGH SPEED
PLANING
MACHINE
m HHIi
»
L;:--.. -■
TOS :
■x.LLv;
>■
m
wm
m
warn, in
,
Tlfj J
,**ss; M l
*T"/i /
L/xu
«»ir
ii
;LX.'. .V
wv**
' 'km
i'%
' j
Here is an all-purposes tool built to suit the
Australian shop. Embodies all the new fea-
tures and latest designs found in a high-
efficiency drill of this type. Radial Arm, 4-ft.
6-ins. Approx, weight, 3 tons. Tested to Schle-
singer specifications. All Gear Teeth Generated.
- The "Mars" Planer is of a proved design
s and is capable of obtaining the maximum
output from high-speed cutting tools. All pul-
leys are Dynamically Balanced. All Gear
- Teeth are Generated.
ẁ
ẃ
ASK FOR FULL SPECIFICATIONS AND PRICES
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS: N.S.W. ; Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
and Gibson Battle & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sydney. Vic.: Herbert Osborne,
Engineer, 567-9 Little Bourke Street (near King Street), Melbourne.
S.A. : M. S. McLeod Ltd., Adelaide. W.A.: The Western Machinery
Co. Ltd., Perth, Charles Davis Ltd., Hobart. India—Bombay
Province; R. S. Meta & Co., Alii Chambers, Fort, Bombay.
Sales Representative;
C. Evans, C/o Bank of N.S.W., Port Moresby, Papua.
m 3
MAKING THE WIDEST RANGE OF MACHINE TOOLS IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE
■
MARS
MACHINE TOOL
MANFG.CO.PTY.LTD.
BRIDGES!. VALLEY BRISBANE
J. & O’S. Advert.
