

EXTRA DRY
A PRODUCT OF THE
s°-l
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70 —No. 3603
Wednesday, March 2, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
seppelts
■pIGHT hundred years ago the Normans
- L ' introduced into Britain a style of
castle consisting of a massive central
structure, or keep, set on a mound en-
circled with a defensive wall. At intervals
along the wall look-out towers were con-
structed to guard against surprise attacks
and the wall itself was surrounded by a
moat.
The earliest of the Norman castles were
made of wood and the wall was only a
wooden palisade. But within two hundred
years of the Norman conquest (1066)
stone castles were being built and many of
the strongholds standing today have
features dating back to that time.
Visitors to the Peak District in England
can view a fine example of this type of
castle near the interesting village of
Castleton, where Peveril Castle stands on
the summit of a splendid limestone crag.
According to Domesday Book the site of
this castle belonged, before the Norman
conquest, to two Saxons, Gernebern and
Hundinc.
In the reign of King Edward the Con-
fessor (1042-1066) the settlement was
valued at 40 shillings and in 1086 its
value had increased to 50 shillings, being
known as William Peveril’s Castle.
William Peveril had been given command
of Nottingham Castle in 1068 by William
the Conqueror, who held him in high
esteem and had granted him numerous
lordships in Derbyshire. Upon his death,
about 1114, his possessions passed to his
son William, who was disinherited in
1155 for poisoning the Earl of Chester,
and his estates were forfeited to the
Crown, The King, Henry 11, stayed in
Peveril Castle between 1157 and 1164 and
it was here that he received the submission
of Malcolm IV, King of Scotland. In
1235 Henry 111 stayed at the castle and
m 1254 it was handed over to Eleanor of
Castile as part of her dowry. Ten years
later the castle was granted to Simon de
Montfort, Earl of Leicester, advocate of
the liberties of the people and founder of
the English Parliament.
In the years following, Peveril was in
the possession of Edward I, Edward 11,
the Earl of Surrey, Queen Isabella, Queen
Philippa, Edward 111, and John of Gaunt,
who received it in exchange for the
Earldom of Richmond. In this manner
it came to form part of the Duchy of
Lancaster, being united to the possession
of the Crown at the accession of Henry JV
in 1399, In 1932 the Duchy handed over
the ruins of Peveril Castle to H.M. Office
of Works, by whom it is now administered.
MIGHTY PEVERIL, AN EARLY NORMAN CASTLE.


i
Story Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 249
AGE
The Red Page
A LIFE OF LONGSTAFF.
If only because there is a prevailing
illusion, set loose by the daily newspapers
and repeated by every parrot among the
intellectuals, that William Dobell is “the
only portrait painter we have ever had”
Nina Murdoch’s Portrait in Youth (Angus
and Robertson) —a biography of Long-
staff—is timely and valuable.
Dobell’s portrait of Margaret Olley cer-
tainly deserved its Archibald Prize. It
has drama of pose, it is a vivid portrait
ol a yellow hat, and, if it does not tell
us much about the personality of the
sitter, some of Dobell’s other portraits
have undoubtedly been powerful studies
ol character. But the black-and-white
reproductions in Portrait in Youth are
enough to remind us of two qualities
which, so far, Dobell’s portraits lack:
dignity in his paintings of men, beauty
in his women.
True, there are many kinds of beauty
besides the charm of a lovely face, and
dignity may be found in the mind that
conceived the painting rather than in the
character portrayed. But the fact remains
that Dobell, with his essentially satirical
approach to portraiture, has never yet
painted a male head with the quiet, dig-
nified understanding of Longstaff’s Henry
Lawson nor a woman with the aristo-
cratic grace of the typical Lambert
women, Hugh Ramsay’s “The Sisters” or
Longstaff’s portrait of his wife and “Lady
in Black.”
Portrait in Youth reminds us, too, how
distinguished was Longstaff’s career. He
won the Melbourne National Gallery’s
first Travelling Scholarship (with a paint-
ing afterwards bought by Macleod of
The Bulletin) ; he was a student at
Cormon’s in Paris at the same time as
Toulouse-Lautrec; Jean Paul Laurens
said his copy of “The Entombment” was
the best copy of an Old Master he had
seen ; and, after his initial success with
the portrait of an American child, he
exhibited regularly in the Salon during his
six years in Paris, “once missing the
medal by only one vote, and in 1891
achieving Mention Honorable with a
portrait of his wife and child”:
In those days the three medals of the
Salon des Artistes Francais went almost
without exception to French artists, and in
those days success at the Salon exercised a
decisive effect upon an artist’s reputa-
tion .... Had he not triumphed with this
composition, the young Australian would
still have been regarded in Paris as a
painter of distinction, since his Salon pic-
ture of the previous year had been hung on
the line and attracted a good deal of notice"
by reason of a peculiar flatness of treatment
which contrived to produce an effect not
only ethereal but decorative. It was a
portrait of his wife wearing a grey kimono.
He called it “Lady in Grey.”
And as in Paris, so in London. In 1893
his “Sirens” was given a place of honor
above Leighton’s paintings at the Royal
Academy, and by 1910, regularly exhibit-
ing at the Academy, he had established
himself as a fashionable London portrait-
painter. Those who sat to him were,
among others, the then Prince and
Princess of Wales, Edward VII, Queen
Alexandra, the Countess of the
Countess of Eldon . . . sopie very choice
morsels of mortals. Whatever may have
been the artistic worth of Longstaff’s big
output of work in England—and no one
who has not seen it may legitimately
praise it or dismiss it —his success in
London and Paris obviously makes non-
sense of the statement once made in an
“S. M. Herald” leading article that
Dobell is “the first Australian artist to
knock with any degree of authority on
the door of overseas fame.”
Useful as it is as a corrective to minds
imprisoned in their own generation,
Portrait in Youth was not written as a
weapon for cohtroversy, but, simply, as a
life of Longstaff. As such—except for
the concluding chapters, which are
skimped, and except for the depiction of
Longstaff’s wife, which is either unfair
or not candid enough—it is a fascinating
piece of reading and a brilliant piece of
biography. The background is so richly
filled-in that the book could be read
simply as a picture of the Australian bush
and then of student life in Paris.,
Longstaff’s father was a dour individual
from the north of England who never
called his wife by her name ; the mother
gay, charming and sensitive, was a Jessie
Campbell from Argyllshire; and from
LongstafFs boyhood in the Victorian bush
at Miner’s Rest and Shepparton, where
the father was a storekeeper, Nina
Murdoch draws scenes of a bush picnic
at which, at the age of eight, Longstaff
got drunk on a bottle of beer and was
chosen by an attendant teetotaller for
the theme of an impromptu sermon on
the evils of intemperance; of mining
tragedies; of a store, shanty and post-
office combined where the proprietor was
unable to read the addresses of the letters
he had to sort; of Longstaff discovering
among a pile of old books Homer, Virgil
and an invaluable volume, containing
notes on painting, entitled Elegant Arts
for Young Ladies; of the artist, alone
in the bush at fourteen, managing a
branch-store in the Muldoona district and
chasing brumbies (called “fizzers”) and
finding a scrubcutter dead in his humpy ;
and of Longstaff in his later teens and in
the days when Shepparton was expecting
an attack from the Kelly Gang, joining
the larrikins of the town in wild escapades
of the sort Norman Lindsay describes in
Redheap and, in secret, painting a
madonna.
These chapters have a legendary and
magnificently Australian quality, and
Nina Murdoch is fully aware of their
poetry:
For the boy of twelve life suddenly turned
to honey in' the mouth. Enamelled sapling
leaves glistening in the sunlight; the green
and scarlet flash of king parrots in flight;
the melancholy pencil lines of drooping
. sheoaks; the breathless hush of the scrub,
broken only by some sharp and secret bird-
call ; the hot brown earth from which the
lean trees sprang—caught him in an en-
chantment destined to hold for the rest of
his life so that ever after the Australian
bush remained for him the most beautiful,
the most mysterious of any landscape in
the world.
After that, when Longstaff has set sail
for Europe, there is the artistic back-
ground : sketch of LongstafFs master,
Cormon, “at work on a picture so
enormous that, with his emaciated limbs
and dark head, he looked more than any-
thing like a black spider on the canvas” ;
Toulouse-Lautrec, the black-bearded
dwarf who would come from his brothels
to Cormon’s and perch on a high stool
telling bawdy stories; Verlaine, though
Longstaff was not personally acquainted
with him, to be seen “any day in a corner
at Vachette’s with his horrible paper-
white face above a loud but bedraggled
suit, and a glass of absinthe perpetually
before him” ; Conder arriving from Aus-
tralia and painting Mrs. Longstaff in a
brilliant watercolor promptly bought by
Will Rothenstein ; Phil May dropping in
and acquiring some of LongstafFs copies
of Old Masters ; a peasant, coming sud-
denly upon Longstaff and his comrades
painting a nude model in the forests of
Brittany, inexplicably climbing a tree;
J. S. MacDonald’s father, visiting Paris,
rescuing Longstaff from poverty and the
bailiffs with a gift of £lO0 —in recognition
of which Longstaff afterwards painted
J. S. MacDonald and gave him the por-
trait: a life of art, poverty and gaiety in
which one of LongstafFs fellow-students
lives for three weeks on hominy and black
coffee and another, dieting on coffee and
a crust, is so poor that he cannot buy
methylated spirits to boil his coffee, but
has to hold lighted spills of paper under
the pot.
And the London background, in Long-
staff’s early years there, is painted almost
as colorfully as the Parisian: Phil May
entertaining the Spanish dancer Car-
mencita, who, after posturing and strutting
in primitive vanity until the company was
exasperated to madness, finished the
evening by trying to stab one of the
guests ; a story of Sargent, who, trying to
entertain the same child of nature while
she sat for her portrait, first painted his
nose red and then ate his cigar; the
sculptor Percival Ball, when the relatives
of one of his sitters complained that the
nose wasn’t long enough, furiously dump-
ing a lump of clay on the end of the
proboscis and drawing it out to a length
of three feet, then seizing a plank and
smashing it down on the clay head;
Melba presenting Longstaff with a superb
piece of plum-colored Venetian velvet
damask which the artist used as the back-
ground of many of his portraits and which
the singer tried capriciously to take back
from him.
In the midst of all this color Long-
staff does not fully emerge as a character
“in the round.” He is handled a little too
discreetly; and truth, not discretion, is
the first requirement of reputable bio-
graphy. Since the middle and late years
of LongstafFs life are, in fact, covered
(though sCrappily), one cannot quite
accept the ingenious apology of the title,
that the book is limited to a “portrait in
youth.”
But so far as the portrait of LongstafFs
youth goes, it is wholly admirable. The
account of his boyhood is refreshingly
free from the sentimentality, so common
in the biographies of artists, which
portrays the child as oversensitive, suffer-
ing and feeble ; and the same balanced
and realistic outlook, always showing
Longstaff as a robust and vigorous per-
sonality as well as an artist, is continued
through his youth and early manhood.
The combination of realism and rhapsody
in the description of Longstaff s delight in
his first really ambitious venture into art
—the painting of a Venus —could not be
bettered. /
Nina Murdoch seems to have a true
and a rare understanding of the artistic
mentality ; she is remarkably effective in
recreating scenes and periods; and she
has an excellent prose style. She shows
Longstaff as a man born to paint; and
it seems that she herself was born for the
art of biography. Her book would enter-
tain anybody who likes a lively and
colorful story, and nobody who cares for
Australian art can afford to miss it.
Displaced Person .
Count Robert Keyserlingk’s Unfinished
History (Hale) is a moving story in more
ways than one. A Balt, whose ancestors
had helped govern the country around
Riga for some 600 years, and were then
settled in their manor, Staniuny, in Lithu-
ania, he began moving fast at the age of
nine, when the first world war caught
his family holidaying in Switzerland.
They were at that time Russian sub-
jects. They hurried down through Italy
and up through the Balkans back to St.
Petersburg. The Russian Revolution
caught them at Vladivostok, where their
father was a naval officer. When the
Communists began arresting officers, they
escaped to Japan. For a while the young
Robert Keyserlingk went to school at a
Japanese Jesuit College where he learned
English, jiu-jitsu and Japanese; then, his
father’s fdnds running short, he was sent
to Shanghai in care of one of his father’s
former bookkeepers, where he attended
the English public school. He helped pay
his school fees by teaching English to
Japanese employees of Shanghai banks.
While still a schoolboy, and to make a
little money during summer vacation, he
shipped on a cargo-boat trading up the
China coast, fought the foreman of a
Chinese gang to prevent his getting on
the bridge, and found he had aided in
the capture of a dangerous bandit; and,
on the same ship, ran the gauntlet of the
Red batteries of St. Olga when they
opened-up on an attacking White Russian
fleet. Then he went back to school for
a year.
On leaving school he became a junior
shipping clerk in Shanghai, then went to
New York as private secretary of a diplo-
mat negotiating industrial treaties, worked
in a New York silk-mill and pushed
trucks in a warehouse until the time
allowed Russian tourists ran out, went to
Canada, dug strawberry-beds in British
Columbia, weeded sweet-peas on the
Saanich Peninsula, cut wood for English
remittance-men in the Gulf Islands,
worked in lumber camps on Cowichan
Lake and Blunden Harbor, sold a few
newspaper articles in Vancouver, launched
a magazine, got a job shovelling fish on to
a conveyor to pay the printer’s bill, be-
came number-six on the crew of a 70ft.
diesel seine fishing-boat, floated a dere-
lict boat, put an engine in her, and went
fishing on his own account, and joined
another seine fishing-boat when his own
boat foundered.
In these ventures, he saved enough to
put himself through the University of
Columbia, working during vacations at
canneries and as teacher of foreign langu-
ages. In 1929, his uncle Eric sent for
him to return to Staniuny, which had
been rebuilt and restored to agricultural
prosperity after the war. And so, at 24,
a Bachelor of Arts, he returned, met his
family, decided on his new world as
against their old world, attended the Uni-
versity of Koenigsberg, wrote for the
Berlin press, worked for a while as expert
on American agricultural problems for
Professor Sering, and in October, 1930,
joined the United Press in Berlin as a
junior rewrite editor on the Continental
desk, later becoming manager for Switzer-
land, then northern European manager;
and when this book was published he
was managing-director of British United
Press, with headquarters at Montreal.
His father, Henry Keyserlingk, also,
was a deserving case ; a friend of Czar
Nicholas II who went with him when,
as the Czarevitch, he cruised the Far East
in a battleship. Then, to study the whal-
ing secrets of the Norwegians, he signed
on as member of the crew of a small
Norwegian whaler, and with the know-
ledge gained formed a whaling company,
and by 1903 had a profitable whaling
fleet operating from Vladivostok, which
was seized by the Japanese a few days
before they declared the Russo-Japanese
war.
The latter half of Count Keyserlingk’s
book describes his newspaper scoops and
meetings with the great of Europe in
the 1930’5. There is an account of an
excellent stunt he pulled to jar an inter-
view out of Hitler just as that gentleman
was •coming into power, but perhaps of
the many wise words he quotes of many
people, the most significant here and now
is what the late Dr. Goebbels said to
him:
It is a fundamental of propaganda, if
you want to root up a well-established
principle, never to attack it broadside.
Undermine a minor detail of that principle,
and people will be less aware, they might
not even notice what you are driving at,
but it does hurt the principle... .Take for
example private property. It is a deeply
engrained concept of the Western world.
Under our ideology there is no such con-
cept, since the State must own all, and the
individual can only hold in trust, as long
as the State trusts him. So we first con-
fiscate Jewish and opposition property. A
great outcry goes up about our intolerance
to the Jews, and nobody notices that we
have in fact achieved a fundamental under-
mining of the idea of property rights by
making them subject to the political dictates
of government. We have established a new
principle, and without attacking private
property have undermined its very concept
by establishing the primacy of our decision
over established right.
Take, for example, private banking.
A Canoer Drops In.
There are some lucky or wise people
on this earth who know exactly what
they want to do, arid do it. Major R.
Raven-Hart, of Bangalore, India, likes
paddling down rivers in canoes, and
dropped into Australia to do it. The
story is in Canoe in Australia (Georgian
House).
The Major did not, one hastens to
add, literally drop into any Australian
waters. He records, while paddling down
the Murrumbidgee from Gundagai to
Morgan, that he has had “only two cap-
sizes in nearly 20,000 miles, both from
sheer stupidity.” Six feet tall and
bearded, flying an N. S. Wales
River Canoe Club pennant and a large
red Indian ensign, he paddled the ’Bidgee,
the Gippsland Cakes and the Nepean
and the / Hawkesbury from Penrith to the
sea ; and wherever he goes he has some-
thing mildly interesting, and frequently
provocative, to say.
Canoeing, no doubt, induces reflec-
tion. And Major Raven-Hart ponders
not only on the birds, beasts, trees and
human beings he encountered, but, with
some profit, on the opportunities for
migrants in country towns, and, with some
bitterness, on various Australian insti-
tutions such as waitresses (“the worst in
the world”), railway porters (“I am afraid
that I offended my companion: he
accused me later of having bullied the
guard ‘like a coolie’ ”) and Sydney
Harbor (“hopelessly spoilt by wharves
and factories and private properties”).
In his less sacrilegious moments, the
Major discovers when disembarked
from his canoe—some Australian sculp-
ture of the modernist school of which he
approves; he thinks that Sydney’s
National Art Gallery, which has been
much maligned by some local critics,
is “spacious and well-lighted” ; and he
notes (and one is glad to be able to
agree with him) that there is a very good
bookshop in Wagga, N.S.W. He says
of the Australian people as a whole,
meaning everything, for the best:
The Australian has curious similarities
with the Anglo-Indian: 1 mean, of course,
the Eurasian, the mixed-blood people whom
1 got so entirely to like... .Like the Eurasian,
the Australian matures early, and tends to
develop a magnificent physique at the
expense of brains... .And above all, when
meeting the British, he has the virulent
Anglo-Indian inferiority-complex.
As a critic the Major is obviously top-
hole. He praises where he thinks praise
is due; he is severe where he thinks
severity is required; and he is, as a
critic should be, as prickly as a frilled
lizard.
Prickles, however, are somewhat dis-
concerting cargo aboard a canoe. What
one really wants to know from Canoe in
Australia is what Major Raven-Hart saw
on the Murrumbidgee. To extract the
utmost pleasure from his voyages one
must, as it were, translate him from time
to time. The Major suffers from'a sense
of humor, and when he reports, for ex-
ample, that “The sunset was atrocious!}
Victorian (the period, I mean, not the
State) with swathes of plum-colored
velvet along the horizon below a pelmet
of vicious magenta with bobbles hang-
ing down from it” one must take him to
mean that, among the redgums by the
river, in the company of frog and swal-
low and platypus, he saw a beautiful
sunset.
Because of the sense of humor, the
staccato style, and the frequent emergence
of prickles, the nature-notes are, in fact,
disappointing. There was a good deal
more of the feeling and atmosphere of
rivers in John Fairfax’s recent Run o'
Waters, even though Mr. Fairfax, too,
felt obliged to be comic in his canoe.
But there is no doubt that the Major
liked what he saw: in the way of galahs,
platypuses, kangaroos, a snake that tried
to join him in his canoe, the flounder-
spearers of Gippsland and, all along the
’Bidgee, the river-gums, of which he nobly
observes, “I never saw two adult gum-
trees alike, and all were beautiful.”


“TRUTH IN ADVERT IS ING"
Anthony Hardens’
.♦ . %t»V * ««
\ \ \
- » : « •'*/
r ■ ; \
i \ r
\ > ■;:
I .
*;* :
I
* I
® ***"' * A I ' x 11 iM
s /
t ' ■ .
■ . "
MVV-'^sw
*
Nt W§m
V » t 'll <
- J
i>; : c i
: ■
fE'y .
/ //
.
/ /. J i r
\J
/ ?AL.
. iii
\ • '. v-'kSsß
■ \
6<*
ilim ■
mk-t i
i / -«
r i
H
■
h ; .:
■ >•'.• ;
■
»
m
xx-
si
:
J**
-
n
Xv :
'i
L
\ :■
>
v\
mez
v«
&
»
m
Wm
- y ■;■■ ;■ •■
*£i
m
XX
im tm
.
m
m
. > ■ "•/
"
V X;
“k
*>*J
mmMi
*r^*-
/
■MBsT^SSI
-
■V:.'".-:
K
■
: i
';:• ■'
(o'
-r>o
(r^
‘I 1 *
.
-
El
•m
. .
gawSPaaiS
You can’t judge a book by its cover perhaps, but
you can judge a discriminating and
knowledgeable traveller by the type o£ luggage
he chooses! Experience teaches the false
economy of cheap travel goods . . . select
wisely for years of reliability and comfort.
A Suit Case that will take a lot of hard knocks
without looking it J Made of Genuine Cowhide
Leather with a selected smooth surface polished
hide, it has two English safety locks and over-
turned edges to reinforce stitching. Cloth
lined, with strap loops and inside packing strap.
Sizes 24in., £6/9/6; 26in„ £7; 28in., £7/10/-
An Overnight Bag in grained hide, with reliable
slide fastener, made in an upright shape for carrying
comfort, with a roomy outside pocket with slide
fasteners, two comfortable leather handles, and
finished in check lining and inside pocket. Available
in Rust, London Tan, Fawn, Navy, Brown or Blue.
Sizes 16in 56/- 18in 64/6
Pure Wool Travel Rugs, hand-woven in smart check
designs and lovely blended colourings. Made with a
soft brushed finish and fringed ends, they are obtain-
able in shades of Green, Maroon, Orange, Red and
Brown. Size 80in. x.6oin. Price 74/3
Freight paid on Rugs only.
Airway Overnight Bag in
the popular 20in, size. Light
in weight, it is in grained
hide, with reliable slide
fastener and lock. Boasting
reinforced handles, it is avail-
able in Fawn or Brown, and
is priced £5/7/6
Leather Bowls Case, which
is a combination bowls and
attache case. Made from
smooth surfaced cowhide with
four folding loops for carrying
bowls, overturned edges, two
English locks, and whole
is strengthened for heavy
weights. Size 18in 55/-
Many
Travel Goods—Ground Floor, Pitt St.
t
’PHONE: M 2401
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


/
B I
SSSBSS
s
; # 1
; > 4 \
. .:■
>r ♦
1
.m ;:
1
1
M.
■■■■■'
v. -Vs , ■ ..s-Zx SS x
&^sS&Sg:
sv v
* s
Sfa
m
■ : *M
8S
TO®
W
•, •• ; •
m
H
\
CATERPILLAR Dt£SH
tractors help shift 3,000,000 yards of over -
burden to win 1,000,000 tons of coal!
DOMINANT in the extracting of 333,400 tons of coal per year from
the Muswellbrook Open Cut Mine toils a fleet of "Caterpillar” D 8
Tractors and "Caterpillar” Earth-Moving Equipment, operated by Thiess
Bros. Pty. Ltd., one of the largest contracting Arms in the Southern
Hemisphere.
Working week after week, month after month, these "Caterpillar” Diesels
are mustered to maintain a regular output of over 2,000 tons of coal per
working day. This has entailed a shifting of 3,000,000 yards of overburden,
the hauling of huge Super Rippers and Scrapers employed over the flint-
like surfaces. Also the powering of tireless Front End Loaders and Dozers,
operating to win for the industries of Australia no less than 1,000,000 tons
of coal in less than 35 months.
Transporting the coal from the open cut to railhead calls for "Caterpillar”
No. 12 Diesel Motor Graders. These maintain existing roads, cut and grade
new areas as the work progresses, repair road damage caused by the wear
and tear of heavy machinery around the immediate approaches of the
mine and construct drainage ditches around the cut.
Here is still one more project of vital national importance demanding the
rugged construction, tireless energy, easy mobility and sustained power of
"Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors and "Caterpillar” Earth-Moving Equipment.
And Thiess Bros. Pty. Ltd. add their name to the thousands of contractors
who, in every part of the world, have proved that "Caterpillar” Diesel
Tractors can "buy” themselves with fuel-£’s saved whilst giving that
dependable performance which keeps the contract always ahead of
schedule, no matter how immense the task, or how gruelling the terrain.
/
/ .MM
M\^g
Ml
" Caterpillar” D 8 Diesel
T r actor with Cable
Controlled Dozer
moving overburden for
work on new lead .
• •
..v s . . ; • • • '*
m
m
tm
"Caterpillar” D 8 Diesel
Tractor, fitted with an
Athey Front End
Loader, keeps trucks
plying with capacity
loads between mine and
railhead.
sm
'
;*•'
«w- »
" Caterpillar” D 8 131
H.P. Diesel T ractor
hauling a fully loaded
Scraper. These outfits
are mainly responsible
for the bulk of material
shifted.
\ ;■ •'
CATERPILLAIW
/ (REGISTERED TRADE. MARK)
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS &
CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
STATE DISTRIBUTORS
N.S.W. WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.
o n|n Unwin's Bridge Road, St. Peters, SYDNEY Phone LA 3321
* 102-124 Melbourne Street, SOUTH BRISBANE Phone J 1456
VIC. WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD.
& TAS. 521-523 Collins Street, MELBOURNE Phone MU 8561
Derwent Park, HOBART Phone Glenorchy 6
S.A. the s.a. TRACTOR CO.
231-233 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE Phone Central 8170
W.A. WIGMORES LTD.
613 Wellington Street, PERTH iPhone BA 2281
H.T. HASTINGS DIESELS PTY, LTD.
Stuart Highway, ALICE SPRINGS Phone 129


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3603
Wednesday, March 2, 1949
CANBERRA MEDICINE-MAN POINTS THE BONE.
“Unless you prescribe my kind of medicine into the pot you go!”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Map”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H- Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
RULE BY BLUDGEON.
Evidently Senator McKenna has been
made to toe the Chifley Cabinet’s social-
istic line. As Mr. Chifley’s Minister for
Health he has conferred with the Attorney-
General—as whose locum tenens he also
functions during most of the year—to
study the Government’s powers under the
“free”-medicine and “free”-doctoring
scheme. The purpose of their chat was
to determine whether the Government
has powers to prosecute doctors “who
refuse to take part” in the new so-
called National Health scheme.
All last year Senator McKenna was
reiterating in Parliament, over the radio,
and in press statements, concerning his
negotiations with the 8.M.A., that “there
is no compulsion of any kind upon a
doctor to co-operate in the scheme.”
Nor could there be within the powers to
legislate on medical services granted to
the Commonwealth at the 1946 referen-
dum. Now, it is reported, both Senator
McKenna and Dr. Evatt believe that they
can use compulsion in a way which “will
not conflict with the Constitution.”
Federal Cabinet has decided that it will
go in for compulsion with the big stick.
The first general practitioner or con-
sulting specialist who is prosecuted for
refusing to turn himself into an obedient
servant of a Socialist Government depart-
ment, and elects to go to jail rather than
be so compelled, will make a public show
of the whole thing. And before that
happens, if the High Court should
approve the process (which is to be
doubted), the Privy Council will afford
yet another airing before the wider
British world of the strange mania for
legislative violence which has afflicted
the Australian “Labor” Government.
The Privy Council’s appeal list is
already a little clogged with cases car-
ried to it from the High Court.
That dour old fighter, William George
Magrath, having in 1947 won his
cause and got back from Mr, Chifley’s
Taxation Commissioner money extorted
from him in official breach of contract
contained in a loan prospectus, naturally
resented being denied any retraction of
a description of himself, in a public report
by the Commissioner, as one who had
sought to evade tax dues, and he claimed
damages for defamation. When thg High
Court by majority upheld the Commis-
sioner’s special plea, Magrath sought
leave of the Privy Council to appeal, and
that has been granted. On the same day
the Privy Council agreed to hear a wheat-
growers’ claim for compensation by the
Chifley Government in respect of the
wheat crop “acquired” in 1945-46, for
which the owners received less than
market price.
And the legislation under which
the Government seeks to abolish all
private banking enterprise, undertaken by
the Prime Minister partly from pique on
being defeated in the High Court over
his original use of the bludgeon and
partly because he misunderstood a legal
submission about a technical defect in
the clauses of his 1945 Act dealing with
trading banks’ deposits with the Com-
monwiealth Bank, has been challenged as
containing the whole venom of the
Government’s socialistic policy. What
Mr. Dedman now says is:
The Government is pursuing its banking
policy [that is, in its appeal to the Privy
Council] and intends to pursue it [appar-
ently whether it wins or loses the Privy
Council case], because on its fulfilment
depends the policy of full employment.
The electors may therefore expect that,
if the Government loses the case, it will
go to the next elections with the com-
plaint that a “foreign tribunal” has
blocked its efforts to maintain “full em-
ployment,that the national economy
cannot (despite all previous assurances)
be “geared to meet a depression” without
a mandate to socialise all industry, and
that if returned to power it will not only
abolish private enterprise, but also all
right of appeal to the Privy Council—
to a Court, that is to say, whose failure
to endorse the Socialist Government’s
rule by bludgeon cannot, if necessary,
be cured by packing it with what Mr,
Theodore used to call “temperamentally
fitted” appointees.
The Government’s own supporters have
not yet felt this bludgeon. Mostly they
regard “full employment” as the “Golden
Age”—or at least a golden chance to
take revenge on all employers—and the
socialisation policy as the cat’s whiskers.
Certain union executives are not quite so
sure: they smell a nigger in the wood-
pile somewhere. Obviously when all
private enterprise is knocked out, and all
profit-seeking with it, and when all busi-
ness-management is done by Government
departments, who will pay the Govern-
ment’s enormous taxes? But long before
this bridge has to be crossed, may there
not be in this “full-employment” pro-
gramme, dependent upon use of the
bludgeon against employers and “the em-
ployers’ banks” —Mr. Dedman says so —
some concealed bludgeon against the
faithful also?
“But not on us,” the oysters cried,
Turning a little blue.
“After such kindness that would be
A dismal thing to do!”
If and when employment declines, how
will it be kept “full”? Any bludgeon in
that event, for workers, also? Certainly.
This is a quotation from the official state-
ment by Mr, Chifley at his conference
with 140 representative union delegates
in Sydney last September;
Mr. Chifley—No guarantee can be given
to anybody that they can stay put in
a particular industry, but there will be work
for all. It is realised that there will have,
to be transfers of workers *and in many
cases transfers of whole communities to
.other forms of work I am not going
to fool anybody in that regard. It may
even involve a plan of movable towns....
The Government’s policy is to provide jobs
for all the people all the time —but nobody
can say where, at any time.
In plain language, “full employment,”
as Mr, Dedman has explained, depends
upon the socialisation of private enter-
prise through the destruction of the trad-
ing banks, and will sooner or later re-
quire in its development, as Mr. Chifley
admits, a reversion to war-time man-
powering of labor, the direction of in-
dividual workers to such jobs as the
Government thinks fit. The manpower
officials will be back again to threaten
any dissentient with banishment to
Bourke, To the city electors upon whom
this Government depends Bourke is
synonymous with Siberia.
It will be objected that the Government
has given precise pledges against con-
scription of labor. Of course it has. It
also assured the B.M.A. that there was
intended no compulsion of doctors to join
the nationalised medical service. So,
also, Mr. Dedman, representing “Fixer”
Ashley in the House of Representatives,
declared that in the new Commonwealth
Shipping Bill, with the establishment of
a Government Shipping Line and Gov-
ernment control of all shipping companies
through licences, “there is nothing which
provides or will permit nationalisation
of the shipping or shipbuilding industries,
and the Government has no intention of
doing so indirectly.” As well might
these sworn foes of all private enterprise
protest that they have not tried to ride
private airlines on to the railings, or that
in the latest Broadcasting Act they do not
mean to drive commercial stations out
of the air or to control all radio scripts
by taking authority to define and to for-
bid matter that is “controversial” and
treatment that is “dramatisation.”
Rule by bludgeon it is. Every
feature of the Chifley Government’s pro-
gramme is instinct with suppression of
all independence of action in the indi-
vidual and of any personal rights he
would defend.
Are We Behind Britain?
Norway has defied the lightning from
Moscow and come into the Atlantic pact.
Living next-door to Russia, the Nor-
wegians of all people know the truth of
Mr, Menziles’ words in the debate on
foreign affairs. We are not, he de-
clared, in danger of war with the U.S.S.R.
We are actually at war —war carried on
in a specific place with tanks, guns and
aeroplanes ranged in Berlin and prevent-
ing the Western Allies from going where
they have every right to be, acting as
they have a legal right to act. Berlin is
only the naked revelation of something
which is happening under the surface
everywhere in the world. And even Dr.
Evatt has remarked that what Mr.
Menzies said is quite correct.
Whether the pact wifi, stop World War
111 remains to be seen. It might have
stopped Germany in 1939 because the
Germans had to gamble on their limited
manpower and their ability to exist with-
out imports; but in this case we are
dealing with an enemy who expects to
have 10,000,000 trained men in reserve
next ypar and who is independent of
imports. And Russia counts upon the
internal fifth-columns of fanatics and
traitors which they have created in almost
every land on the globe, bodies loathsome
in treachery when it is considered that
many of them were organised at a time
when Moscow was shrieking for help
to the countries they were Red-anting
and honeycombing with spies and agents.
One fact stands out about the Berlin
blockade in an amazing light in view
of the attitude of the Chifley Government
to the Atlantic pact. The viewpoint of
Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt is, seemingly,
that the pact is a local affair. They are
“watching developments closely.”
Australia politically seems to be a neutral
in the matter. Its Ministers appear to have
reverted to their position of 1937-40 when
cheers from “Labor” back-benchers used
to greet the cry that young Australians
never more would be allowed to die in
the quagmire of Europe, and when Mr.
Beasley used to oppose violently the
building of the Sydney graving-dock,
which he afterwards took credit for having
built, and when Mr, Ward, in particular,
used to inveigh against the defence of
New Guinea by militia, a defence in
which, with his normal modesty, he later
claimed a major part.
It is an unquestionable reality that we
are concerned in the military occupa-
tion of Berlin. Australia there has a
separate military representative, Brigadier
Galleghan, as head of a mission.' The
R.A.A.F. has a large batch of its officers
and men there engaged in oppos-
ing and breaking the illegal Russian mili-
tary blockade. Their lives are being daily
endangered. It is our mission which is
being kept from exercising its rights by
a display of Russian military force. If
the Russians are at war with the Western
Allies in Berlin they are also at war with
us, with our military mission and with
the Chifley Government, though ’per-
haps not with all of it, since in that
curious helot group it is quite possible
for Dr. Evatt to be at war without Mr.
Calwell being at war, as has been demon-
strated in the Indonesian situation.
Nevertheless the attitude of the Aus-
tralian Government seems to be entirely
detached. From the statement on Foreign
Affairs made by the Prime Minister at
the end of the session in 1948 it is clear
that he and,, his wandering External
Affairs Minister believe that “the work
of the United Nations is clogged in all
its departments by the inability of the
Great Powers to settle their differences,
and, in particular, the Berlin dispute.”
The obvious inference from this and from
the action of Dr. Evatt in offering to act
as mediator, along with his Russian-
nominated Assembly secretary, Mr. Lie, is
that Australia is not party to the business
at all, but in a position to arbitrate as an
outsider.
Almost every month Canberra an-
nounces some grandiose scheme to
“defend” the country —some plan which
will presently permit Mr. Chifley to press
a button with his pipestem and blow all
impinging enemies to what W. M. Hughes
would call “blithering blazes.”
The suggestion was even put forward
recently that in order to defend itself in
the Atlantic, Britain proposed to move
nearly the whole of its industrial defence
facilities to Australia so that they might
be out of the way of Russia’s hail of
atom-bombs.
Yet with the almost daily publication of
such details (with the name of Sir Henry
Tizard usually linked), and despite every-
thing that the Prime Minister and other
agents of the Federal Caucus have to say
about “meeting Britain’s wishes in every
way,” and “collaborating to the full,”
the Government has all along, and is still,
showing a remarkable coyness in coming
out forthrightly and stating its determina-
tion to stand behind the Atlantic pact.
Australia cannot avoid being in the
conflict if the West goes to war with
Russia. Unless all the combatants are
prepared to forjget us and leave us in
shameful isolation to be dealt with
according to our lights after the main
clash is over, we must be in the thick
of it. It will be our system, our security,
our principles, our future which will be
fought for. The people who will be
fighting against the U.S.S.R. will be those
who came, in response to the loud
yells which emanated from Canberra,
and prevented the Japanese from invading
our territory, harrying our countryside
and ravaging and murdering our women-
folk. If nothing else, principle and that
mateship of which the Labor party claims
to be the very embodiment—of which
sometimes it evlen professes a sort of
monopoly—would dictate that we must
be involved from the first shot on the side
of Britain and the United States and our
other European allies.
Mr. Chifley and Dr. Evatt are intelli-
gent men. They must be aware of this.
Why then do they not lend their weight
to the assurances of the Western Allies,
and particularly of Britain, that if Russia
begins aggressive war in Western Europe
the civilised world will band itself to
oppose the attacker, no matter who is
attacked? Is it because Stalin’s fifth-
column has become so strong in Aus-
tralia, and particularly inside the “Labor”
party, that they dare not come out in
the open on the side of the Western
Allies? Is it possible to think of any
other reason for their evasions and
silences?
Their behavior is open to the suspicion
that it is tantamount to abject surrender
to the agents of the enemy. Either that
or Dr. Evatt places the need to maintain
U.N.O.’s wilting prestige before the safety
and the honor of his own country.
Improving Parliament.
Broadcasting has turned Parliament
from a house of deliberation to a place
of entertainment, where only Mr. Menzies
has sufficient polish to pass both as states-
man and performer. For the rest, the
stutterings, stoppages and non sequiturs
proper to men thinking on thieir feet are
a disadvantage. The longest radio-play
is rarely allowed to run beyond the hour;
the most popular of soap-operas seldom
demands more than one-and-three-
quarter hours of the listeners’ week; yet
here is a radio programme with a cast of
untrained and unrehearsed performers
taking up from 20 to 24 hours of the
listeners’ week.
As only the finest talent should be
engaged for such a session, the obvious
thing to do is to persuade as many first-
class radio artists as possible to stand
for Parliament. It should be put to them
that although the fees may not be quite
what they have been used to, these have
lately been raised to a very comfortable
wage, with the added advantage of a
pension far higher, and granted much
sooner, than could be expected from the
Actors’ Benevolent Fund.
The difference of the new membership
would not be so noticeable in general
characteristics as in the quality of the
performances. If, after the next election,
Mr. Chifley were to be replaced by Mr.
Willie Fennell, listeners would recognise
a continuance of the tradition in the first
sad and drawling words of Mr. Fennell’s
maiden speech: “’Ow are yer, mates?”
And if, instead of Mr. Rosevear, the new
Speaker were to be Mr. Roy Rene,
shouting “Fair go, mob!” or silencing an
unruly member with a “Strike me lucky!”
or “Cop this, young Harry!” the main
difference listeners would notice would
be Mo’s wonderful sense of timing, so
often praised by theatre critics.
Parliamentary Whips should consider
Mr. George Edwards a great acquisition.
There would no longer be any difficulty
in arranging pairs, or outcries against
absentee members, if he were an M.P.;
for Mr. Edwards, who can take all the
parts except the women’s parts in a
“Dad and Dave” broadcast, would be
able to make speeches on behalf of absent
members on both sides of the House, and
instead of ringing for a quorum the
Speaker would only have to send for Mr.
Edwards.
But even if he could change his mind
as often as he can change his voice, Mr.
Edwards would hardly be a fitting sub-
stitute for Dr. Evatt, who long ago passed
from the category of absentee member
and acquired the status of a Visiting
Celebrity. Still, the trouble in Australia
with visiting celebrities is that the more
they visit the less they seem celebritous;
and against Dr. Evatt the electors of
Barton might well nominate some cele-
brity who has never been here.
The great conductor, Furtwangler, for
instance, has had some difficulty in getting
an engagement in the United States, and
might consider coming to Australia. His
appearance in Parliament, coriducting
those many experts at the art of blowing
their own trumpets, might make up to
us for the concerts of which the Parlia-
mentary broadcasts have deprived us. A
Mr. Stanley, also known as Wulkan, is
another gentleman with an international
background who might like to come here,
not being required anywhere else. The
press-cuttings of his appearances in court,
in the Belcher case, are quite as volumin-
ous as those clippings of Dr. Evatt’s.
Opportunities could also be made for
Mr, John Dease, of the Quiz Kids, to
rise and ask questions without notice;
and Mr. Jack Dayey, as first incumbent
of the newly-created Ministry, could hand
out jackpots to the member answering
three questions correctly; while Mr. Bob
Dyer, who devises embarrassing conse-
quences for people who fail to answer
questions, such as having eggs broken
upon them, or being forced to take baths
on stage, might demonstrate the lengths
to which politicians are prepared to go
in the service (no doubt) of their country.
Broadcasting people have learned the
hard way that no radio session is better
than its writers; and here it will be pos-
sible to replace the amateur Caucus which
decides most of what will be said in the
House with a committee of radio-script
writers: Gwen Meredith, of “The Law-
sons,” Alex Macdonald, of the Palmolive
Show, Edmund Barclay and John
McLeod of the A.8.C., and so on. These
writers could meet in conference and
write every Parliamentary session a week
in advance, interjections, points of order,
rulings from the Chair, all complete.
In this way the Parliamentary broad-
casts may be made into first-class enter-
tainment, worthy of Australia, while the
business of running the country and mak-
ing its laws can be left where it has been
for the past several years—-in the hands
of trade-union leaders and Communists.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Colwell v. Hytten.
least equal claims on our political
Government, he says, ought to be
a rising standard of living, which implies
a progressive economy. We live in a com-
petitive world, which demand that our
productivity must be kept on a level with
that of other countries. Increased pro-
ductivity can be achieved by employing our
resources as fully as possible, but the stan-
dard of living must be dependent on the
efficiency of our labor, or, to put it bluntly,
on productivity per man-hour.
“Full employment” based upon per-
manent scarcity of goods—“more jobs
than men” —and a maintained standard
of living simply will not run together.
Thus Professor Hytten. His business
is the serious study of economic weather-
signs in the service of a great banking
institution whose story is wrapped up in
that of the development of New South
Wales from its first beginnings. Setting
his constructive effort in this polemic,
which involves the fortunes of every
Australian household, against the calum-
nies of a Calwell and his fellow-dema-
gogues, let the public decide where honest
guidance lies.
Hollway's Secret Weapon.
“Freq. Mod,” writes from the scene:
While Arthur Augustus Calwell makes merry
over the Liberal-C.P. quarrel and settlement in
Victoria, there is a split in the Victorian A.L.P.
industrial wing over precisely the same handling
by Premier Hollway of union militants which
occasioned the Liberal-C.P. trouble. The rever-
berating row in the Melbourne Trades Hall
Council, with the suspension of seven key
unions (all Communist-controlled in their local
or Federal executives), threatens tp produce a
rift in the A.C.T.U. also.
Premier Hollway’s Essential Services Act
seems to be proving an exceedingly useful
weapon against strikemongers. It is an untried
Professor Hytten’s remarks at the
Hobart Science Congress about “full em-
ployment” are now being tom to shreds
in the Concord (N.S.W.) by-election and
by the Chifley Minister for Misinforma-
tion as propaganda for the Socialist party
in the Federal elections.
Ignoring the dose relation of Hytten’s
analysis to the warnings by the Socialists’
own former accepted expert, Professor
Copland, and those of other economists
in Britain, Mr. Calwell’s line is that Pro-
fessor Hytten “wants 160,000 unem-
ployed” in this country as a desirable
condition and that therefore the banks
and the Liberal party are out to stab
“full employment” in the back. There
could be no grosser perversion of what
Hytten said.
Whatever “full employment” may
mean —and it is becoming the supreme
concern of every citizen to know what
it does mean—it is definitely not some-
thing which any political party can
assure the electorate as a condition
within its power to create. British
Socialist Ministers, and particularly
Herbert Morrison, have frankly told
the British people that the temporary
“full employment” they enjoy is de-
pendent absolutely upon American finan-
cial aid, without which there would be in
Britain today, despite the Socialists’ best
efforts, anything from 1| to 2 millions
unemployed. The halcyon conditions of
labor shortage in which Australian unions
are basking today—ll3,ooo more jobs
offering than workers to fill them at the
end of last October—would be knocked
endways with a collapse of the booming
prices now current overseas for Aus-
tralian primary exports.
What Professor Hytten' sought in his
address at Hobart Science Congress was
to warn this community that, if not from
the bursting of these boom prices, then
within a time no further ahead than the
restoration of German and Japanese
industrial competition in the international
markets, “an employment policy aiming
at stabilising a condition of more jobs
than men to fill them must be shattered.”
He went a long way with Mr. Chifley in
refusing to lay all the blame on working
unionists for either slackened production
effort or increasing costs. He urged that
if a condition was inherently unstable,
and he showed how our local “full-em-
ployment” condition is not and cannot be
made stable, there is nothing to be gained
by pretending the contrary, least of all
by those who will suffer most for that
error. For the sake of our national living
standard, he asked, what is the highest
possible level of employment which we
can aim at as reasonably stable?
His text was the Chifley Government’s
own White Paper on “Full Employment”
of 1945, which postulated as the desired
condition “such a pressure of demand on
resources that for economy as a whole
there will be a tendency towards a short-
age of men rather than of jobs,” Al-
though recognising that the resultant
scarcity means a scramble for goods,
leading to inflation, blackmarketing and
endless Government controls, the White
Paper hoped these would be “abnormal.”
It assumed some constant unemployment
—the sick, those voluntarily taking a spell,
those leaving jobs to better themselves,
and those being trained for new occupa-
tions.
What Professor Hytten then asked
was: Between an unstable present condi-
tion which cannot last and the by-no-
means-unhappy conditions of the mid-
’twenties, when statistics measured between
6 and 11 per cent, of unemployment,
where can a level be found at which the
community’s employment can really be
a:sured? The White Paper assumption,
vague enough, lies somewhere between
those limits; so does Sir William Bever-
idge’s optimum possible, which he put
at 3 per cent. The London “Economist,”
observing that Beveridge included the sick
and the job-changers in his 3 per cent.,
considered his margin was unsafe and
thought it should be 6 per cent. Hytten,
after weighing all these estimates, and
supporting his argument at great length,
thought that, in order not to deceive our
working people, we ought in Australia
to aim at the level of the best of the
years in the decade of the ’twenties, at
something no worse than “from 6 to 8
per cent,,” as some fairly stable level of
employment which any Government
might aim at really securing for
this people. If we can beat even that
aim, so much the better.
“Full employment,” even in the sense
of the Chifley White Paper, is, he says,
illusory. It is inherently unstable. The
better aim is the highest possible level
of stable employment, “since it implies
two reasonable economic aims, namely,
the fullest possible use of resources and
the elimination of mass unemployment, a
great social evil.” But an aim with at
OBSERVATION FROM MOUNT STROMLO.
“That comet’s stay is getting shorter each visit; and its tail rises perceptibly
as soon as it leaves these parts."
sword, but looks as though it might do a job,
and Premier Hollway has not yet had to use
it —only to point to it —in order to persuade
the trouble-makers to desist.
Albert Dunstan and his personal frustrations
had so got into Victorian C.P.-leader
McDonald’s hair and line of vision that he
could not appreciate what his coalition-chief
Hollway was doing. McDonald, acting-Premier
for Hollway during his absence overseas,
wanted to draw the anti-Commo sword and
swing it snicker-snack against Trades Hall
heads indiscriminately. But Hollway had earlier
seen a light in the eyes (political) of Cain and
(political plus industrial) of Clarey during the
passage of the bill; the E.S. Act could be very
useful to them also in their fight against Com-
munists, within the unions. If Hollway, after
a trans-terrestrial journey with Cain, did not
find opportunity to confirm his hunch, then his
record belies him.
Anyway, he returned and immediately tola
McDonald. The Trades Hall agreed (very
privily) once again with Hollway, their political
adversary, that, if the renewed strike threatened
by the Corns (Seamen’s Union bosses this time)
could be beaten by a deft selection of heads
which the sword would, if necessary, be used
against, such play would enable them to pull
the anti-Com. force together in their own show.
McDonald could not understand this. The
Dunstan crowd were so mad they even tried to
chase Cain and “Labor” off the Opposition
benches. This sort of thing having become
such a commonplace in Victorian State politics
during the past 25 years—l 7 Ministries in that
period, most of them indexed udder D tor
Dunstan —Hollway turned to the bold measure
of a merger of Opposition parties and has gone
far to carry it off. ,
But meanwhile the Commo union bosses m
Victoria began to imitate McDonald and Dun-
stan by jumping off the deep-end also. They
published in “Trade Union News” a succession
of scorching articles on scabbery of the T.H.
Council majority in playing up to Hollway,
The T.H.C. demanded retraction of these pub-
lished slurs, on pain of suspension. The rebels
told it to go jump in the Yarra and that they
would withhold affiliation fees, contributions to
“Labor” election funds, and form a new Trades
Hall and political wing of their own. Suspended
they now are, the T.H.C. is kissing goodbye
(or only au revoir ?) to £2500 a year of income,
and the Trammies’ Union, uneasily neutral, is
trying to behave like one of U.N.O.’s good-
offices committees. So far without success.
A.C.T.U. officials fear the rumpus may snowball
and involve that body also. .
Mr. Calwell may or may not be enjoying
a hearty laugh at the spectacle of Comrade
Brown of the A.R.U. deploring that the Mel-
bourne Trades Hall should be “splitting ‘Labor
unity” just at a time when the ranks should,
like those of the late Hitler’s stormtroopers,
be jest geschlossen for the revolutionary cause.
The signs are, however, that he is exasperated
with envy of Hollway’s secret weapon—“My
earnest hope,” says Hollway to cheer them all
on, “is that I may never have to use it” —that
his only resort is to pretend that Hollway is
“losing out” (as the film fans say) against the
C.P., Cain, the Commos, Calwell, and every-
body else in the arena where Rafferty’s rules
are the vogue.
Blair Athol Again.
Eighteen months ago Mr. Hanlon an-
nounced an £lB million scheme whereby
an English company was to open up the
vast Blair Athol coal deposits, build a
special railway and port, work its own
colliers and so forth. Brisbane “Courier-
Mail” wants to know how far it has gone.
The paper’s London man says that “more
than one London financial group” is
said to have either displayed no interest
in the project or been unable to find
capital for it. The co. directing research
on Blair Athol had nothing to say, except
that the question of raising finance hadn’t
arisen and that it would be months before
investigations into Blair Athol are con-
cluded. This was substantially the same
answer the “Courier-Mail” man got from
two other London concerns interested in
Blair Athol.
“Courier-Mail” declares that, apart
from boring tests for coal in various parts
of Queensland, nothing appears to have
been done, and adds that two of the
necessary preliminaries to the agreement
between the State and the Electric Supply
Corporation (London) for Blair Athol
development—proclamation of the Blair
Athol coalfield area and acquisition of
the two companies now working there —
have not been completed.
When the Premier returned from the
Empire Parliamentary jaunt last year he
announced that ample British capital was
available for the scheme and that when
the company was formed in Queensland
there would be room for Australian
money in it. All that has been said since
is that special machinery has to be
ordered and that arranging finance for
such a scheme can’t be done in a hurry.
Pressed for a comment on the business,
Mr. Hanlon got this off:
The people who say these things are the
usual knockers and Queensland-haters.
They are the type of people who hope Blair
Athol development and the British Food
scheme will fail, and that Queensland will
go insolvent because a Labor Government
is in power. Believe me, if those financial
and industrial concerns that are behind
Blair Athol have not got finance, nobody
in the British Empire has.
Which may or may not satisfy those
impatient people who, when they hear
big schemes announced, expect them to
take shape almost overnight. Machinery
is a problem, so is labor, so is capital in
these peculiar times. What’s more,
British firms are not given to rushing
bullheaded into anything. The coal situa-
tion in Australia makes it imperative that
vast deposits like that at Blair Athol
should not lie untapped any longer than
necessary, but it is somewhat unreason-
able to expect much within 18 months
of the opening negotiations.
All the same, Queenslanders have had
a little lesson which other Australians
should take to heart. In the south just
now, it being a Federal election year,
“Labor” has begun to trumpet about
huge hydroelectric and irrigation schemes
in the Kosciusko country and out on the
Darling, in themselves comparable with
Blair Athol; but does anybody suppose
that they’ll amount to anything more than
paper plans within the next 18 months?
There’s a whale of a difference between
a Government announcing a big scheme
and getting it working.
Timber-rr (and Typewriters)
Fourth week of a marathon perform-
ance, with “noises off”;
Edward Farrell, head of the syndicate which
got £50,000 from the Queensland timber concern
Hancock & Gore as part consideration for the
purchase of a Bulolo Valley concession alleged
to have been granted to Ray Parer by Minister
E. J. Ward, was the principal witness last week
at the inquiry over which Justice Eigertwood
is presiding as royal commissioner.
On the ground of illness, Farrell did not
figure in the dock at the conspiracy trial along
with Parer, “Jock” Garden and Garden’s son
Harcourt, and when those persons were ac-
quitted the charge against him was dropped.
On the same ground he chose to “withdraw"
from the royal-commission inquiry.. Arrested
on warrant, and certified by doctors as lit to
give evidence, he gave it for long periods on
three days. On Monday he was too ill to
attend, and the inquiry was adjourned till today
(Wednesday). .
To Justice Eigertwood, Farrell said he hadn t
had much to do with the Hancock & Gore
“proposition” except as vendor. In that
capacity he “had a letter’’ addressed to Parer
and produced at Brisbane in December, 1944,
to Hancock & Gore directors and their solicitor,
Biggs; and this was the “letter”: —
Dear Sir, —With reference to your pro-
posed application for a licence to cut and
export timber from the Bulolo Valley, I
intend to grant this application at an early
date for a total of 4000 acres.—Yours sin-
cerely, E. J. Ward, Minister for External
Territories.
He, witness,' remembered clearly that the
“letter” was signed “E. J. Ward,” but didn t
know whether it was Ward’s signature or not.
At that Brisbane meeting the Hancock & Gore
people declared themselves “satisfied,” espe-
cially as Garden had vouched for it that the
concession would be royalty-free, and agreed
to pay £lOO,OOO, half of it in two deposits of
£12,500 and £37,500. With these they weighed
in, the £37,500 on the “authority” of a “letter,”
signed “E. J. Ward, per J. S. Garden,” pur-
porting to grant Parer the concession, and
out of the £50,000 he handed £30,000 to Garden
for division among the father, the son and a
“fifth party,” and £9OOO to Parer, keeping the
balance—£lo,ooo, he said—himself. And when
trouble came he helped the Gardens with their
legal expenses. .
Who was the “fifth party”? Garden himself,
Farrell (he declared) suspected from the begin-
ning, but Garden, without ever telling him,
wanted him to believe it was Ward. He himself
“thought of a lot of people” (he mentioned
two high External Territories officials), but
“didn’t think of the Minister.” So Garden s
first-trial story about Harcourt being Ward’s
dummy came as “a bolt from the blue.
During a Court adjournment Garden repeated
the assertion and went on to allege that the
“fifth party” was Mrs. Ward, and that she had
received £lO,OOO “in two lots of £5000.”
Garden said that Mrs. Ward had found
out her husband was sweethearting his
private secretary and had insisted on getting
the money, and that he, Garden, had paid
her £5OOO in Ward’s presence, altering this
to <he back of Ward’s car. “I told Garden
I didn’t believe his story”; indeed “I don’t
believe today that Ward received a penny-
piece. I said to Garden: Tt appears to
me that both you and Ward were putting
it over Hancock & Gore, and now you are
putting it over Ward.’ Garden laughed,
turned his back on me and walked away.”
Had Farrell ever seen Ward to speak to?
Yes; in December, 1944, when “very suspicious”
as to “the way certain things were going”:
I stopped Mr. Ward as he was entering
his office arid introduced myself as the
Farrell who was dealing with Garden in the
Bulolo Valley syndicate. I showed him
my power of attorney for Parer, and he
said “I know all about it. Garden’s office
is just around the corner. He has full
instructions to deal with the matter. Follow
carefully everything he tells you.”
And he had known Ward to “come into
Garden’s room when I have been discussing
the matter with Garden” and to “go round the
room listening to the conversation” —he “pre-
tended to be reading.”
Apropos of Garden’s conviction on the for-
gery charge, Farrell denied having been privy
to the alteration of Forshaw’s letter to Ward,
of November 10, 1947, and the “imitation”
of Forshaw’s signature (Forshaw was the Han-
cock & Gore logging manager whom Farrell
obliged with a loan of £4OOO, “a perfectly honest
transaction”) and denied also that he had “ever
put it over anyone.” He wouldn’t, knowingly,
“double-cross anyone.”
Thereupon a succession of barristerial thun-
derbolts fell on Farrell, and the rest was mostly
admissions arid denials:
He was introduced to Forshaw by a
certain Joseph James Petrie, known to him
for blackmarketing in “booze, cars and
anything he could get money on.” Petrie
and he were “fellow-guests” in Boggo-road
prison; he (Farrell) was doing three years
for false pretences. The charge was that
he had obtained £4OO from one Keble “for
saying I was a Customs officer.”
Ward’s counsel, E. S. Miller, K.C.: I
suggest that the false pretence was that you
had an option from the City Council over
land at Bulimba?—Yes.
You suggested also to Keble that you
were Chief Collector of Customs in Queens-
land and wanted a launch for the opium
traffic? —No.
You gave a promissory note for the pur-
chase and the note was dishonored? —Yes.
Farrell admitted also, in reply to Mr. Miller,
that in the mid-’thirties he had been interested,
with Sly - and Mclntyre, in an application
unsuccessful —for a 4000-acre Bulolo Valley
timber concession, bespeaking then the assist-
ance of Country-party members H. R. Corser
and Hunter. In the result he had threatened
an action for defamation, claiming £2OOO
damages, against Hunter, who was Assistant
Minister in control of New Griinea, and had
been interrogated by Queensland detectives,
whose questions he refused to answer. About
that time he disappeared from Queensland
(i Continued at foot of next page.)


W
.vSwwWi-.'.-.v.v.
For your throat's sake
CRAVENAi
Always reliable
Obtainable In
10’s & 20’s
Vb**’
A
5905 E-K
CARRERAS LIMITED - OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUAimf
without leaving any known address (“probably”)
and his wife got a divorce for desertion. He
left “quite a few” debtors in Brisbane, going
to New Guinea, where, in 1943, he had £5OOO-
- of gqld, the produce of mining, buried
“in rugged country about two miles from
Moresby.” No; this wasn’t a cock-and-bull
story designed to deceive the Taxation Depart-
ment touching his share of the Hancock &
Gore money.
During the week Ray Parer was in the
witness-box twice. On the first occasion he
said that in 1945 Farrell had told him there
were five members of the syndicate, one of
them being Ward, who, in Farrell’s words,
“withdrew later.” He, Parer, did not men-
tion this at the conspiracy trial because “I was
not asked —there were a lot of other things I
could have been asked” —and because (he
asserted on the second occasion) “I was fol-
lowing my counsel’s advice.” His counsel
offered to swear that they had given Parer
no such advice, but his Honor did not think
it necessary. Another thing Parer said was
that in June, 1947, having received a letter
from Ward to the effect that his application
for a lease had been refused, he communicated
with his brother, who went to Canberra and
“told Senator Courtice, the Minister of Cus-
toms, that we had received money and I
suspected a bribe had been passed to Mr.
Ward.” For he, Ray, had “heard rumors,”
and “was not happy about the syndicate with
Mr, Ward as a member,” though he “thought
it was all right when told Mr. Ward had
withdrawn.”
An unexpected appearance on the floor of
the Court was made by Harcourt Garden,
who asked the Judge to let his father listen to
the evidence. Receiving the reply .that he
should get in touch with Mr. Simon Isaacs,
who defended the Gardens at court proceed-
ings, he was ordered into the witness-box,
where he stated (1) that he had been Ward’s
dummy, (2) that he had received no money
“directly or indirectly,” and (3) that, in defer-
ence to Farrell, he had signed at the G.P.0.,
Sydney, what he took to be a power of
attorney; it was really a statutory declaration
to the effect that “we have received from our
attorney, Edward Farrell, all the [Hancock &
Gore] moneys due to us,” except “£1&000 each
payable to us at the Bank of N.S.W., Moresby.”
The elder Garden, when about to be sworn
in, said “On the advice of my counsel I refuse
to take the oath and to say anything until my
appeal has been heard by the High Court.”
The reference was to an application for an
injunction to restrain the royal commissioner
from proceeding with the inquiry until J. S.
Garden’s appeal against the forgery conviction
had been decided, and for a declaration that the
prisoner was meanwhile under no obligation to
attend and testify. Justice Dixon’s ruling was
that he would neither grant the injunction nor
dismiss it, and that the case would be reopened
at once were Garden summoned as a royal-
commission witness. Counsel for the Crown
volunteered the information that Garden would
not be called until legislation widening the
terms of the royal commission had become
effective.
Mr. Menzies protested in the House that the
proposed widening of the terms was not nearly
sufficient. He argued that the Government’s
proposals would not admit of any investigation
into the affair of the missing bank-clerk
Kingsford (B. 9/2/’49), who had disappeared
five days after he produced documents relating
to Ward’s safe deposit or into Ward’s whole
relations with Urquhart, his manpower man
and subsequent nominee as managing-director
of Pincombes, who secured a licence for im-
ports of Swedish typewriters—Bill Urquhart,
through whose bank accounts (six) £29,000 had
passed in two years. Opposition amendments
to the proposed extension of the terms of the
commission were vetoed by Speaker Rosevear
as out of order, and the bill was passed through
the House (the Senate was “resting”) without
amendment.
All this while Harcourt Garden was in the
box again. Letting himself go, Harcourt
alleged that Ward owed his very presence in
public life to Garden senior (“My father fought
for Ward against Lang—one of the first rows
he had with Lang over Ward”) and had repaid
him with treachery. Indeed, Ward had struck
at the elder Garden only when he had “had
the opportunity of getting rid of certain
papers,” among them a letter to Ward from
one of the Hancocks, dated September, 1946.
For himself, there was never any secrecy about
his being a dummy for Ward (“I know quite
a few cases of dummying where there zs no
question of anything being hidden”), thougn
“I never got a penny out of the transaction.
As to the Pincombe typewriter licence, a cer-
tain William Barron, as Import Procurement
files would show, was in first with an applica-
tion which was held up until Pincombes applied
Ward’s appearance as a witness was expected
to make the fifth week of the inquiry memor-
able, perhaps even more so than the fourth.
POLITICAL POINTS
The Flying Pieman is off again—for
the seventh time since 1945. He will
lead for the Commonwealth in the Bank-
ing appeal before the Privy Council on
March 14 and is due in New York on
April 5 to preside over the new U.N.O.
session. But his toughest job for the
season is probably already behind him.
The flies on the wall must have heard
some monumental casuistry when the
Doc. was explaining to Pandit Nehru
how he came to misinterpret his remarks
on the White Australia policy. And
what wouldn’t Calwell have given to have
been one of those flies!
When the Prime Minister had an hour’s
conversation with Anthony Eden “S. M.
Herald” reported that Mr. Eden had ex-
pressed concern over the effect on Anglo-
Dutch relations of the recent Calwell
outburst. Next day Chifley described
the report as “a complete fabrication”
and denied that there had been any dis-
cussion on relations with the Nether-
lands. The “Herald’s” Canberra corres-
pondent commented:
The conversation must have made a
singular selection of subjects to omit one
in which Mr. Eden is keenly interested and
one which must also be uppermost in Mr.
Chifley’s mind.
After being shrouded in secrecy for
days the McKenna plan to force the
B.M.A. to co-operate “voluntarily” in
the Government’s national health scheme
was disclosed last week. It was merely
a threat to prosecute any—and presum-
ably every—doctor who wouldn’t co-
operate, Dr. Hunter, the B.M.A.’s secre-
tary, described the move as “silly,” and
that is probably the best word for it. The
announcement may, however, explain the
tremendous expansion of staff planned
for the Federal Attorney-General’s de-
partment.
Undiscerning fellows who objected to
the Commonwealth Government’s choice
of January 26, the anniversary of the
day on which Britain decanted a thousand
of her convicts into Port Jackson, as a
national day to be celebrated by the
promulgation of the new Australian
Nationality Act will have to withdraw
their opposition. Actual experience of
the Act proves that no more appropriate
day could have been chosen to launch
the Act, since it, in fact, makes virtual
prisoners of all Australians and subjects
them to restrictions of a kind to which
they have not been subject since the days
of the military autocrats. Last week
the Immigration Department refused a
passport to an Australian woman 61 years
old, who has been voting here all her
adult life, unless she produced a birth-
certificate. Getting a passport these days
is like going before a criminal parole
board.
Tasmanian Premier Cosgrove has been
preaching heresy. He told a radio audi-
ence that
it makes one wonder, when the subsequent
results are summed up, if the introduction
of the 40-hour week was premature,.
McGirr, who for election purposes beat
the gun by introducing the 40-hour week
in N.S.W. while the Arbitration Court
was still considering it, probably wonders,
too, as he surveys the mounting losses on
his trains and trams. Cosgrove may not
be the first “Labor” leader to think that
way, but he deserves credit for being the
first with enough courage to admit it.
Fadden showed a neat turn of phrase
last week when he accused Chifley of
using “still-life” methods of financial pre-
diction instead of a “moving-picture
panoramic view which would enable
revenue and expenditure, to be forecast
with some accuracy.” It was a fair
criticism of the system under which, year
after year, the Federal Treasurer pro-
fesses to be agreeably surprised when the
revenue collections are tens,of millions
in excess of his “estimates.”
Alleging,, with that charming frank-
ness so characteristic of the man, that the
Liberals had deliberately caused elec-
tricity blackouts in the Sydney suburb
of Concord for by-election purposes,
Sydney Premier McGirr added, “My
Cabinet discussed blackouts yesterday.
They will not be tolerated in Concord,
by-ielection or not.” Whereupon, it may
be assumed, the citizens of Concord went
forth and laid in supplies of oil-lamps
and kerosene; they’ve heard things like
that before.
The R.S.L, —more power to its elbow!
—continues to plug away at the Gov-
ernment on the subject of compulsory
training, but it doesn’t get much of a
hearing from Napoleon Chambers and
Co. “Labor’s” defence maxim is that
one push-button is worth a million pressed
men.
Questioned concerning his assets at his
trial last year, Jock Garden admitted his
interest in a publishing business. The
principal publication of the show is an
astrology magazine, but those who knew
Jock assumed that his only interest in
the hocus-pocus of horoscopes and divina-
tion was a commercial, one. Since the
disclosure that he ran a string of race-
horses under the name of J. Leo they
are not so sure. Garden was bom on
August 13, which ah astrological authori-
ties agree comes under the sign of Leo.
For those who are interested Eddie Ward’s
birthday is March 21, and there is some
dispute as to whether his destinies are
ruled by Pisces or Aries,
Mr. Calwell produced in the House of
Reps, last,week documents which he said
he had received through the post from a
person unknown, who might easily have
stolen it for all* he knew, and which
contained the awful revelation that. Mr.
J. T, Lang’s newspaper, “Century,” had
received sums of money from a body
called the Australian Constitutional
League. Mr. Calwell is going to have
photostat copies made to show the electors
the depths to which Mr, Lang has sunk
in associating himself with something
which claims to be “constitutional.” It
is a word which drives Mr. C. apparently
into paroxysms of totalitarian rage. In
his eyes “constitutional” and “criminal”
seem to be almost synonymous.
Voting in the South Hammersmith by-
election followed the pattern of most
British by-elections since the war—
Labor’s majority was reduced, but was
still a majority. W. T. Williams, Oxford
University lecturer and ex-Baptist parson,
finished 1613. votes ahead of Conservative
Anthony Fell, a young engineer who
spent his boyhood in New Zealand. A
year ago Fell fought the Briggs by-
election and halved the Labor majority
of 8000. Polling will shortly take place
in Sowerby to choose a successor to John
Belcher. Belcher won Sowerby with a
majority of 560 over his two opponents.
Conservative and Liberal. If it comes to
a straightout fight Labor may suffer its
first defeat.
Less than 2t) days ago Mr. Pollard, the
Minister for Commerce and Agriculture,
was loudly braying that Australian land-
men had produced £6OO millions-worth
of food and raw material last year. Then
R. G. Casey brought out a few figures
of his own to show that land production
was down, not up, Mr. Pollard brooded
a few days, then informed the nation
that unless land production was increased,
we’d be importing food by the time we
had 10,000,000 people. To feed the
people “large pastoral holdings” would
have to be “broken up” and fanning
methods “improved.” The Socialist
blatherskite for Ballaarat hasn’t a solitary
constructive idea.
The case of Annie Louise Strong is a
prim© sampling of Communist gratitude.
Associated with the Moscow “News”
almost from its foundation, for a genera-
tion a fierce fighter for the theory that
Russia was the savior of the world and
that her native land of America and
Britain were wicked imperialist Powers,
she has committed the crime of growing
old and mellow. So Moscow has de-
cided suddenly that she is a spy and
tossed her hack to the United States,
whose policies she has reviled for half
a lifetime. She has good cause to be
thankful that her voyage of deportation
is from, and not to, Moscow.
If a rumor current in Brisbane has any
truth in it the proposed new State of New
England is about to have a signal honor
conferred upon it. Mick Healy, boss-
cocky of the Queensland Communists,
is alleged to be “about to retire” from
the Brisbane Trades and Labor Council
and to “be found a position in the Com-
munist party at Newcastle.” The coal
city has been indicated as the chief port
of the new State—-if it eventuates—but
whether this is the inspiration for the
transfer of reinforcements, or whether
Newcastle Communists need strengthen-
ing, is anybody’s guess.
Nelungaloo Pty., Ltd., the name under
which the N.S.W. Farmers and Settlers
are seeking what they claim is money
owed to wheatgrowers by the Common-
wealth for the 1945-46 crop, has been
granted leave by the Privy Council to
appeal against the Full High Court’s
judgment that wheatgrowers were not en-
titled to world wheat price for wheat
acquired from them by the Common-
wealth Government and sold at under
world price. There are millions involved
in the case, and N.S.W. growers have
sparred up about £lO,OOO to finance it.
A Victorian unionist got a verdict
against Thornton’s Ironworkers’ Federa-
tion last week. William Lloyd, a muni-
tion worker, claimed the Red outfit had
in a pamphlet condemned him “as a
scab, bogus, non-unionist and anti-work-
ing class.” Counsel for the Ironworkers
claimed that all the pamphlet did was
“tell the boys what Lloyd was doing.”
Lloyd’s counsel described the words as
“poisonous and very dangerous to
Lloyd.” The jury apparently thought so,
too. They gave Lloyd a verdict for
£2OOO.
“The N.S.W. and Federal Govern-
ments are gravely perturbed about the
continued stoppages on the northern coal-
fields.” But not about the effect of the
stoppages on production, housing, em-
ployment, costs, health and the house-
wife. It’s the effect on the votes in this
year’s Federal elections that has them
“gravely perturbed.”
French Communist leader Thorez has
left no room for doubt as to where his
party stands. He has said, and when
challenged repeated, that “should the
Soviet Army come to France, French
workers would behave towards it as did
the workers of Poland and Rumania.”
That is definite, but no more so than a
multitude of statements made by Aus-
tralian “comrades” on the platform and
in print. French Premier Queuille
has been hardening his policy towards
the Reds, his Australian opposite
number still regards them as political
philosophers.
Report from U.S.A. (Melbourne “Age”
special correspondent) on economic pro-
gress under a free-enterprise industrial
system, with man-hour production twice
or more that in Australia:
Blackmarkets disappearing.
Prices of “almost anything consumers
want” considerably more reasonable than a
few months ago.
Prices of sheet steel down by one-third
on the level of six months back.
Housing much less scarce.
Grocery prices eased, and competition
beginning again to reduce some of them
still further.
Building materials —timber, bricks and
cement —readily available.
And “capitalist” American financial aid,
in commodities and dollars, is also sup-
porting cockeyed Socialist “planning” in
U.K. and Australia (which would collapse
otherwise), and is the sole hope for sal-
vation during the next three years of
half Europe.


SEARCHING FOR TRUTH IN THE “LABOR” JUNGLE.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED^
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“8.P.P.”: When the Prime Minister
went off to his “little bush pub in Tas-
mania” he picked the wrong one. He
should have gone to Victoria’s Tarna-
gulla. In that sleepy old mining town
where from the great Poverty mine £l3
million-worth of gold was mined in a few
short years, the shuttered shops, broken
footpaths, unpainted houses all tell a tale
of past glories. Four magnificent churches
tell of the unstinting pioneers who
worked and built for the future. The
pub’s name? The Golden Age,
* ♦ * *
“Jasby”: A recent Gallup poll in-
formed us that Australians are the hap-
piest people in the world. I know the
Australian organisation has a great repu-
tation for accuracy, but I feel that
any finding in this case should be
treated with the utmost reserve. Poll-
takers asked people in six countries:
“Would you say your fife is usually very
happy, fairly happy or rather unhappy?”
Ninety-three per cent, of Australians ques-
tioned put themselves in the first two
groups, Holland and America tying for
second-place with 87. What I would like
to know is whether all persons inter-
viewed were approached under the same
conditions? For instance, a man who on
Monday morning feelingly described him-
self as rather unhappy might on Friday
night confess that he was fairly happy.
Approached on Saturday afternoon, just
after backing a winner at Randwick, he
might even admit to being very happy.
Similar variations might be observed over
a much shorter period. The blokes in a
crowded bar, with the beer flowing freely,
might well be classified as very happy.
Ten minutes later, the barmaid having in
the meantime announced “beer’s off,” the
majority would undoubtedly admit to
feeling rather unhappy. No, I’ll give Dr.
Gallup my support when he tries to find
out how many people wear blue and
yellow sox or hold their toothbrush in the
left hand, but when it comes to measur-
ing states of mind I must beg to be
excused.
» * * *
“Spasebo”: The latest purge in Soviet
artistic circles concern the critics.
“Pravda” has denounced nine Soviet art
critics as “anti-patriotic cosmopolites”
and demands their “ideological annihila-
tion.” Their crime, it appears, is that
they bring a decadent Liberal approach
to works of Socialist realism which, in
depicting contemporary Soviet fife, em-
phasise the superiority of Soviet man.
What has probably happened is that the
critics have been bored so stiff with
Soviet drama, depicting the superiority of
Soviet man, that even a fife sentence in
a Siberian mine would seem like heaven.
* * ♦ •
“Minto”: Sorely-pressed mothers with
young families were heartened to read in
a Brisbane daily that the British Govera-
merit was training thousands of domestics
to assist in the home. Many, looking
ahead to the time when the scheme might
be introduced in Australia, must have
had happy visions of their day’s work
cut down to only three times as much
manual labor as a wharfie does. Next
day a photo, was published showing one
of the domestics being trained. Was she
poking a copper? Or scrubbing a floor?
No, sir! She was tossing the dirty
clothes into the latest-type washing-
machine, retailing in Australia around
£l5O.
♦ * ♦ •
“Pandanus”: Reading of a man who
backed his car to run over a snake and
dropped over a 35ft. cliff reminded me
of a case of a man in Victoria who found
a snake in the well. He got a waddy
and stepped on the well-cover and fell
through. The family fished him out,
half-dead with fright; doubtless the snake
is still there. His effort was equalled by
that of the settler who woke to find his
house on fire; he seized a bucket and
put up a record sprint to the well—•
and fell in. Reporting the incident, the
staid old “Argus” did not include the
remarks of his neighbors when they
found him, waist-deep in water, after
searching the ashes of his hut for charred
remains.
* * ♦ *
“Rooster”: Shortage of telephone-
exchange operators in Melbourne has re-
sulted in some strange crossings of lines.
I dialled a Malvern number from
Heidelberg Hospital; a voice responded
faintly, so down went the twopence. The
voice was that of a radio announcer giv-
ing the time and the news —from Batavia !
THe other day my sister-in-law made a
call to a Government department and
received the “all-clear” signal. Then she
heard another voice making inquiries of
the same department. It sounded familiar.
She chipped in “Is that you, Gwen?” and
the voice replied with a surprised gasp—
“ Why, yes!” Gwen was her sister fr^m.
another suburb.
* * * ♦
“Mullum”: How “Tich” got the grog
to attain the state of careless intoxica-
tion on a troop-train I never found out,
but his railway-station lunch gave me one
of the best laughs I’ve ever had. Plates
of stewed mince and mashed potatoes
were being placed in front of us when
“Tich” turned to the waitress and asked
for roast lamb and mint sauce. With a
grin she put his plate of mince on die
table and walked on. “Where’s the mint
sauce?” he demanded loudly. Then,
seeing a cup of tea near his plate, he
picked it up, emptied the contents over
the mince and preceded to eat the lot.
“The mint sauce was bonza,” he told us
when he had finished. “Plenty of mint
in it.” No one ever told him that the
“mint” was tea-leaves.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Pink Tape”: Any postal employee
with philatelist ideas who removes stamps
from mail in transit runs a risk. The
post-office has very strict ideas on the
subject, as is illustrated by a case pur-
posely given considerable service publicity
a couple of years ago, A zealous officer
who had to make a declaration that
certain “dead-letter” mail after being
kept for the prescribed time had been
burnt noticed that stamps were missing
from some of the letters. A confession
was extracted from another official that,
seeing that the stamps would be destroyed
anyway, he had not seen any harm in
snatching them from the burning for his
stamp collection. The Postal Department
held the other view; it was an act of
dishonesty and a breach pf the oath of
service. The unfortunate cove- was
sacked and lost all the benefits he had
earned by 22 years’ admittedly good ser-
vice. Some effort of my own was put
into the petitions raised against this action,
but the department probably was right.
* » * *
“Col M.”; He is the only doctor I
know of who claims to cure his own
colds by smoking—add to that a great
ability as a g.p., with a profound know-
ledge of the racehorse and politician, and
it is not surprising that his practice in
the suburb is a large one. Recently he
offered me a lift, and as I hopped in
beside his bag he asked me how he
looked, declaring with a grin that as soon
as he had a spare moment he would run
the rule over himself. He explained that
he had a new patient, an old boy hailing
originally from Europe, who had intro-
duced himself and his complaint with a
polite bow: “For years I get treated by
Dr. Such-and-Such, but when I get nearly
better he die. For years I go to his
son, and he die. And now I come to
you.”
* ♦ ♦ *
“B. M. Lever”: Here is one reason why
the Navy has to send to Britain for ratings.
Soon after the war all hands at the
Flinders gunnery-school, most of them
due for discharge, were fined up in the
daily parade of classes and addressed by
Gunnery-officer Four, a reserve lieut.
with an unfortunate voice that would
raise the hackles of a Job. After dis-
coursing from an official screed on the
benefits of a 12-year fife in the permanent
Navy —about which he obviously knew
no more than the potential signers-
on —he ended his appeal with: “I’ve
noticed hands smoking after the
‘Out-pipes’ at five-to-eight. When that
bugle goes it means ‘Out-pipes!’ This
is your last warning—any man found
smoking after that time will be dealt
with!” Such a crass disregard for ele-
mentary psychology, added to the in-
explicable choice by G.O. 1 of his re-
cruiter, brought the results it deserved.
♦ * ♦ *
“Plop”: It was near closing-time,and
Sydney’s Public Library watched its
inmates one by one pocketing their notes
and leaving their books on the table by
the door. Among the drowsy night-owls
remaining was one young lady, wide
awake, and earnestly tapping with her
fingers on her knee in periodic bursts
as she turned the pages. Looking like a
good candidate for a nerve-restoring six
months’ holiday, she was oblivious of the
looks of concern that came to her over
the few volumes still in use. A restrained
grin—the nearest approach to a laugh
permissible in that hall of silence —was
called for when a hurried glance over
the young lady’s shoulder as I passed dis-
closed that she was up to page 152 of
Touch Typing.
« * * •
“Jim O’Keeffe”: “Gravelsnatcher” is
apparently an elder citizen following the
universal trend of age befitting youth in
a somewhat petulant defence of itself
(B. 26/11 ’49). His attitude is like that
of blokes who claim that kids at school
were bigger in his day than now. Statis-
tics show a steady increase in the average
size of schoolkids, but thkt means nothing
to “G.” and his fellows. Apparently it
was manly in “G.’s” eyes to behave like
baboons in picture-theatres. School-
wagging in “G.’s” day was a natural
escapist reaction to cant, monotony and
violence. The schools of the day were
conducted in an atmosphere of fear and
hatred. .The subjects were dry, factual
stuff which rarely touched the kids’ lives
or their interests. The kids of today
are responsible members of a school, not
its victims. Discipline, in the truest sense
of the term, is stronger than anything the
waddy-wielders of the past ever managed
to impose. Kids still get swished, solidly,
and bear it with just as much fortitude as
Grandpa did, but the swishee is carefully
informed of the reasons for the walloping
and rarely feels victimised and frustrated
about it. Adventure, not escape, is the
basic urge in modem waggery.
• * * •
“Lao-dah”: If the British Government
makes a deal of it with the Ross family,
the Cocos-Keeling atoll will shortly be-
come an appanage of the Crown after 150
years of separate existence. The original
Ross, a hardy seafaring Scotsman, was
in London looking for recruits for his
island when a press-gang passed, intent
on getting recruits for the Napoleonic
wars. Ross slipped into a doorway, the
door opened and he was ushered into a
sitting-room where he met the girl who
subsequently became the first queen-
consort of Cocos. Later Rosses married
natives.
* * • •
“Woody”: A Digger of the first war
showed me copies of “Aussie” —the
A.I.F. magazine of 1918 vintage. Read-
ing the racy pars and sketches straight
from the lines in France, I encountered
a pen-name familiar to “Society” readers.
In No. 5, dated June, 1918, “Hamer”
appeared with a par. and a sketch, and
came good again in No. 6, August, 1918,
with a par. and a spot of verse. Is he
the same “Hamer” of the Order of the
Bath (B. 26/1/’49)?.
* * * *
“Momokan”; I couldn’t believe my
daily when I read; “The Sydney secre-
tary of the Waterside Workers’ Federation
said that any member found intoxicated
would appear before the union executive.
Fines up to £5 could be imposed.” I
was about to commend his action when
I decided to read on. No, he wasn‘t
talking about being drunk on the
wharves! It was being drunk at the
wharfies’ annual picnic that be was con-
demning!
* * * *
“Rex”: If Semaphore (S.A.) used to
be The Semaphore (B. 2/2/’49), Burra
in the same State is still The Burra.
Former residents will be interested to
hear that they are moving Johnny Green
to a place of honor in the town. Johnny
is a lifesize silhouette of a miner, com-
plete with pick. He originally stood on
the poppethead at the old coppermine
until boys trying to smoke out pigeons
set the poppethead alight, causing Johnny
to fall. Patched up, he was erected on
a tali pole opposite the old mill near
Mine Bridge, He has weathered many
storms since then. His next place will
be overlooking a wishing-well in aid of
local charities.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Repatriate”: The man in front of me
was giving his particulars to the clerk at
a repatriation general-hospital counter.
The clerk asked “Religion?” “Haven’t
got one,” replied the sick one. “But you
must have one.” The sick bloke looked
bored. “Haven’t got one.” Again the
clerk maintained “You’ve got to have a
religion.” The sick one, fed-up, an-
swered, “Right. Put me down as a
Moslem.” The clerk’s face turned red.
“But you’re not an Arab or a Moham-
medan! Come on, what religion are
you?” By this time the sick one was
worn right down. He muttered testily,
“I haven’t got one! ” But the clerk, sens-
ing victory, pressed on. “Come on, what
are you? R.C., C. of E. or what?”
“0.K.,” gasped the sick one. “Put me
down as C. of E.” With a smile of
triumph the clerk picked up his pen and
wrote. Then he snapped, “I don’t know
why you blokes can’t answer the ques-
tions straight away. If you’d told me
you were C. of E. in the first place we
would have saved all that time.
* * * *
“R.K.D.”: A long time before the
regiment changed from oats to petrol I
had a troop-sergeant who was unequalled
at getting words and ideas tangled. One
day we were issuing kit for a couple
of weeks away from barracks. Charac-
teristically, my sergeant was doing it the
slow way, calling out the articles to each
trooper in turn: “One saddle-cover, one
’eel shackle, one ’alter, one ’ay-net, and
so on. “Sign ’ere and quick about it
Get clear. Next man. He still had -
few men to go when the sergeant of me
next troop, who had finished, leaned over
his shoulder and said, “Hey, Tom, when
you’re finished, come along to the mess
for a cup o’ tea and a bit o cake. M
sergeant glanced back, saying:
right —’arf a jiff,” and resumed his chant.
“One saddle-cover, one eel shackle, on-
cup o’ tea, one bit o’ cake’ - Tben n
swung in his seat to glare at the oth;
sergeant and bark, “Oh, what the ell an
you talkin’ about?”
ONE THING HE LIKED.
“Asked, before leaving for Brisbane, to name one
of the things he liked most about Sydney, Mr.
Anthony Eden said: ‘Your beer —it’s great!’”
—“Sunday Telegraph
He steered away from all the tosh and blither
Distinguished visitors so oft dispense,
Their commonplaces upon coming hither
And platitudes before departing hence.
Twasn’t our Harbor Bridge that left a dither
Of awe in him at its magnificence.
For valediction all he chose to state
Was the assurance that our beer was great.
Rejoice, you brewers of the nut-brown potion,
The beverage with bubbles at the head!
Here you’ve a testimonial, I’ve a notion,
Spontaneous and unsolicited,
To fill your hearts with generous emotion,
Seeing the testimony’s sure to spread
Coming from where it does, and thus enhance
Appreciation of your stimulants.
Rejoice, you vintners (though it’s a misnomer,
That term, today, when Bungs will do as well)
Who ladle out schooner and the foamer
The thirsts of customers to quench and quell,
And doubtless sometimes wonder (same as
Omar)
What you can ever buy as valuable
As what you vend! Here’s Eden, Churchill’s
mate,
To certify your malt-and-hopjuice great.
Some high-grade tourists praise our wools as
dinky,
Others extol our widening fields .of wheat;
Others panegyrise in raptures inky
Our flowers so fragrant and our fruits so
sweet.
Experts assert our wines (excluding pinky)
As pretty near impossible to beat.
How rare it is to see a bouquet flung
At the essential industry of Bung!
There’s something in the frankness and the
straightness
Of Eden to his credit to be set.
Our beer is great, he says, and .finds its greatness
Something we should be grateful for. And yet
I wish in crowded bars and in the lateness
Of afternoons ’twas easier to get,
But that consideration, you must see,
Could never have occurred to Anthony.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Sixenate”; The more the cables tell
me of the emotional dramas staged in the
courts of European countries, particularly
France, the greater is my conviction that
the dull proceedings of our own courts
might be brightened. The permission of
an interjected “That’s a lie!" a few times
during evidence; an exchange of blows
now and then between the police-prose-
cutor and counsel for the accused ; and
the licence given to the defendant to prove
that he was a Tobruk Rat by singing
“Waltzing Matilda,” with a few bottles
heaved at the Bench, and some law-books
hurled back in reprisal, would relieve the
monotony. It could be further brightened
by spicy remarks about what the arrest-
ing constable’s sister does for a living, and
a final verdict of acquittal because the
accused suffered victimisation in the 1917
strike, with an incidental conviction of the
Clerk of the Court for contempt of court
because of an argument with the Beak.
A charge for admission to the show might
make our courts pay instead of being a
dull expense. I fear, however, that the
dreary respect for relevance in evidence
and stark judgment on the relevant facts
is likely to continue, and the foreign prac-
tice of throwing everything into a hearing,
including yells, screams, tears, faces
“livid with anger,” hurled missiles and in-
dividual scrappings, will be ignored. A
great opportunity is being missed.
* * * ♦
“Macnell”: The circumstances of the
return to Rosyth of battleship Archan-
Royal Sovereign—under a
Russian crew points the difference be-
tween what Churchill called “the world’s
finest fighting instrument” and the
Russian Navy. The ship was some hours
ahead of her estimated time of arrival —
E.T.As. in the R.N. are religiously ad-
hered to —she was not provided with
either saluting-guns or blank charges for
her 4in. with which to return a salute, and
destroyer Zhostki (formerly Roxborough),
returning under the same arrangements,
instead of escorting her hove in sight
several hours after the big ship anchored.
Royal Sovereign was practically unaltered
structurally, and was escorted up-Firth
by ex-Australian destroyer Nepal, in
which Noel Coward shot his sea sequences
for “In Which We Serve,” and which
screened the Eastern Battle Fleet and its
carriers on their bang at Sabang.
* * * *
“George” (Hong Kong): “Hamer” (B.
22/12/’4B) was surprised to find a Chinese
with a handle like Cyril. In Hong Kong
recently I interviewed a character who
goes by the name of Shakspeare Tsu.
When I asked him how he came by the
name he replied: “My father knows your
Mr. Shakspeare velly well so he name
me after him.” Mr. Cubic Foot is well-
known around these parts, as are Hang
On and Hang Yu, but the one that I can
still get a laugh out of is Rin Tin Tin,
whom I have yet to track down, as he
operates between here and Canton.
* * * ♦
“Hyanlo”: Whoever thought of mak-
ing those English schoolboys plant trees
tagged with their names (B. 16/2/’49)
hit on an ingenious method of replacing
fallen timber, but I wonder whether he
had ever heard of a French village padre
who laid the foundations of a large
forest. Worried about the morals of his
congregation he placed a penance on every
“fallen” woman —to plant a tree. Accord-
ing to the yam, the morals didn’t im-
prove much, but every night the hillside
was dotted with hurricane-lanterns as
the belles of the village carried out their
penance under cover of darkness. But I
doubt if there were any name-tags on
those trees.
«. * * «
“Zake”: Some years ago Sydney’s
tram troubs claimed that the incidence
of their calling provided, their union with
the highest t.b. death-rate of all. Since
then there has been some amelioration,
caused only by the improvement in the
state of the roads —a succession of
yoomanitarian “Labor” Governments has
been content to see them clinging by
teeth and eyebrows to their perilous out-
“That proves it—Maggies still with that knave of hearts !"
side platform while they try to pull
tickets, give change and keep a wary eye
for trucks speeding past 12in. away. But
their vocation seems, in terms of the
dread disease, to be a healthy one com-
pared with that of the stags comedian.
Good stage comedians are rare, yet four
of the best-known have succumbed to
the disease over the past 20 years, the
latest being The Firm’s Don Nicol. Gus
Bluett, who held promise to be the
greatest comedian we have produced—
many think he had already achieved
that distinction—was whisked off the
boards while still a young man. Alfred
Frith, whose priceless grin enhanced a
natural flair for comedy, was another
victim. The fourth was that quaint little
comedian, Hector St. Clair, “and his
violin.” Hector used to amuse Tivoli
audiences greatly with the apologetic
little hacking cough he would come out
with periodically. The two bright spots
on his cheeks highlighted make-up which
included lines drawn vertically through
his eyes—they also indicated that the
same little cough was lethal, and not
theatrical.
» ♦ * •
“Nunk”: Award of the Bollingen
1000-dollar poetry prize to Ezra Pound
shows there must be some method in the
madness which has already protected this
American from a charge of treason. He
is luckier than other poetic transgressors.
Young Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey,
father of English blank verse, was be-
headed for high treason, being suspected
“ She's a marvellous maid —Cedric is quite mad about her!
of plans to make his father Regent to
Edward VI. Sir John Suckling, “natural,
easie Suckling,” discovered in a plot to
free the Earl of Strafford, was charged
with high treason, fled to Paris and died,
probably by his own hand, in fear of
poverty. Ezra Pound, irascible Douglas
Creditite, protdgd of Mussolini, is the
father of much modern English poetry;
he may be “natural,” but he certainly is
not “easie.” “I should like to believe him
mad,” a critic said of him, “but only be-
cause it would explain his Cantos.” And
no doubt the “Pisan Cantos,” written in
an American p.-0.-w. camp in Italy, which
won the prize, will be no less difficult than
the several volumes of Cantos already
published. Perhaps it is a sign of the
weakness of literary criticism that no one
ever kills a poet for being a poet —the
pen is not mightier than the sword.
* * * *
“R.A.A. Sargent”: Will accept “Billy
T.’s” arguments re “all-time” records (B.
16/2/’49), but feel that there is some
justice in my mate’s claim to hold two
unbeatable records. In his last year at
school he set record figures over two
distances at the inter-school swimming
carnival. The following year all events
were contested in metres ; his times stand
as the fastest over yards.
« ♦ * «
“K.R.”; A gleaning from recent read-
ing:—
The Stoics termed pure reason “the
political nature.”. Unfortunately the sense
of the adjective has undergone so much
modification that the application of it to
that which commands the sacrifice of self
to the common good would now sound
grotesque.
A present-day comment, with Can-
berra’s tax-cuts and pensions grabs in
mind? No ; it is from an essay, “Evolu-
tion and Ethics,” by T. H. Huxley,
written back in 1893.
* * * *
“Lawnstob”; The long-drawn-out
“mixed-babies” case in Melbourne has
had repercussions in Tasmania, where the
Royal Hobart Hospital is collaborating
with C. 1.8. officials in experiments to
take footprints of newly-born infants.
Although the present system is virtually
foolproof, the extra precaution of foot-
printing the babies and fingerprinting
their mothers will be taken if the tests
prove successful,
* ♦ * *
“Cauboy”: The wheel turned full circle
in Germany when indignant mobs raided
the cinema in which “Oliver Twist” was
showing and demanded the film’s with-
drawal on the ground that the “grotesque
caricature” of the Jew Fagin would
promote racialism. There isn’t the
slightest indication that Dickens, in creat-
ing Fagin, discriminated against one race
any more than Shakspeare did in “The
Merchant.” If Fagin is a libel on the
Jewish nation, why aren’t Bill Sikes and
the Artful Dodger and Mr. Bumble and
Pnd-M r n°r trUStees libels 0n the
English? Dickens was engaged in describ-
ing the world of his own times, and Jews
were apt to be receivers in those days, just
as they are at present, though for every
Jewish receiver in London there are
doubtless a dozen English. Antipathy to-
wards the Jews goes back to the days
when, the church having set its face
against usury, the barons and suchlike
people, if they wanted to raise the wind,
were driven to resort to the Jewish mer-
chants, Although in these days for every
Jewish banker there are 100 Gentile
bankers, the Chosen People are still
symbolic to many of the usury of the
Dark Ages. These memories determine
people’s feelings much more than they
imagine.
* ♦ * *
Balander”; I note with considerable
astonishment that in this Labor-governed
State of Queensland, where every man is
as good as his fellow and some are a
darned sight better, the Government
proposes to grade the pubs from first to
fourth, according to the standard of
accommodation they supply. I foresee
some complications in this, especially in
the civil service. Suppose, for instance,
the deputy sub-assistant supervisor of
the Canary Seed Board arrives at Emerald
on an expense account which limits him
to a second-grade pub and discovers at
a first-grade pub his opposite number
from the Sunflower Seed Board. Or the
head clerk from the Premier’s Depart-
ment books in at a first-grade hotel in
Townsville and encounters in the lounge
the liftman from the same department
enjoying a holiday. And what about the
down-trodden wage-plugs? Is a union
secretary to be asked to share the same
hotel with an employers’ secretary?
Heavens, lesser things than this have
caused strikes!
* * ♦ *
“Coigum”: One of the liberties which
are not going to be restored to us is the
soft collar. With hardly an exception,
collars of the more formal shirts, attached
or unattached, are “fused,” and no laundry
can take the stiffness out of a “fused”
collar. The makers are proud of that,
and having got the nation into these
leathery yokes they seem determined to
keep it there. Nor, since there is no
other choice, can the fused collar be
avoided. It’s no use complaining; as
soon as a man sticks his neck out, some-
one will clamp a fused collar on it.
* » * *
“V. Cluse”; The police car was a
large one, its outlines dark and grim;
and as the man came o’er the fence, it
tootled after him. Ha raced across the
empty road, a fender grazed his back;
two large and active policemen chased
him to a shack. The big car blocked the
only gate and waited in the night; the
fugitive lay still and low, no doubt his
face was white. The law now guarded
every door and every window scanned:
“Y* might as well come out,” they cried
in gruff and loud demand. At this a
sound within was heard, a light sprang
into glow; and walking to the door they
heard some footsteps, soft and low. The
portal slowly opened wide, a face was
therein framed; the startled policemen
gave a gasp and felt a bit ashamed. For
there within the torch’s light, a quaking
doctor stood; he had no registration on,
no number on his hood. “We caught y’
in the act,” they said. “Y* might as well
come clean ; y’ve cured a child of measles
an’ incurred McKenna’s spleen.” The
doctor hung his guilty head and offered
them his hands, on which the bracelets
quickly snapped, the felon’s fearful bands.
In silence then they led him off ; all felons
thus they harry, who dare to save a little
child outside the formulary;
* * * *
'■‘Glenorchy”: Apple Islanders feel
more venerable than ever since workmen
making a road-cutting at Sandy Bay dis-
covered fossil flowers estimated by E. D.
Gill, palaeontologist at the Hobart
Museum, to be 30,000,000 years old.
The blooms are in a state of perfect pre-
servation, and will go into the fossil
gallery at the museum.
* * * *
“Becks”: A Bible, believed to have be-
longed to Bligh’s Bounty, will in due
course find its way back to Pitcairn Island
after an absence of 110 years. The story
is that the Bible arrived on Pitcairn with
the mutineers, and stayed there until 1839,
when a grandson of John Adams gave it
to a Yankee whaleman, Levi Hayden.
After Hayden’s death it came into the
hands of the Connecticut Historical
Society. A few months ago a member
of the British Colonial Service on Pit-
cairn wrote to the society, suggesting the
return of the Bible to the island. The
society agreed, and recently asked the
British Ambassador to assume responsi-
bility for getting the volume back to
Pitcairn. Efforts are to be made to recover
relics souvenired from the island
in the long-ago.
ARMORIAL BEARINGS.
“In several coats-of-ams, recently registered for
new Labor peers in Britain, spades, picks, miners’
safety-lamps and pen-nibs have replaced the old
traditional heraldic figures and symbols.”
They’re out-of-date, these old armorial bearings
To which our rude forefathers used to cling,
Where lions and unicorns were given airings
On azure shields —and all that sort of thing.
Figures, which erst were flaunted as immutable
Proofs of the pride old lineage affords,
Are naturally reckoned quite unsuitable
For new-fledged Labor lords.
Gryphons and gonfalons and crests we know
with
Archaic scraps of legendary lore
Have clearly nothing upon earth to do with
Things one may nowadays get titled for.
Where coats-of-arms once rested on the glamor
Enshrined in brandished spear and flashing
blade,
They’re now adorned with sickle and with
hammer,
With pick and plough and spade.
But, for the Heralds’ College and the sake of
The Ulster King-of-Arms, whoe’er he be,
I cannot help but wonder what they make of
This new development in heraldry.
Now the material they were used to handing
Out to the nouveau riche has lost its charms,
What do they do when fellows come demanding
A modern coat-of-arms?
Who knows? With picks and shovels sub-
stituted •
For emblems once denoting pride of birth,
It must be hard —I’ll say it’s undisputed—•
To give an applicant his money’s worth.
I wonder if our own G.G. —to touch on
A point on which, ’twas rumored, he was
set —
Has got the shield that carries his escutcheon
Duly attested yet.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


THE
UNION
TRCSTI
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LID.
Incorporated in Victoria.
Est. 1885
ť
ŧ
Simplifies Business and Estate Administration
The future welfare of a business bequeathed as part
of an Estate may well depend on sound direction by
the Executors and Trustees. When expert know-
ledge is required the Union Trustee Company may
be joined as Co-executor or Trustee.
A wide range of Services covering every require-
ment in Estate administration is permanently avail-
able—at moderate cost.
Phone, write or call for your complimentary copy
of the informative Booklet, “Important Facts Con-
cerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.
333 Collins St. f Melbourne—2 O’Connell St., Sydney 398-402 Queen St., Br'sb
and at Albury, Townsville £ Toowoomba and Rockham^°" nd
The only Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and imanagem ent in three States—Victoria, New South aes an
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
Carlton and United Breweries, Ltd.
0.U.8. and Subsidiaries.!
, Dividends N
Pref. Ord. To Re- Net
Profit. 12£ p.c. 12i p.c. serves. Reserves.*
£/£>£>£> SL
1941.. 559,576 37,500 828,125 193,951 1,701,371
1942.. 504,428 37,500 328,125 138,803 1,840,174
10 p.c. 10 p.c.
1943.. 430,097 30,000 262,500 137,597 1,977,771
Added goodwill, etc., £19,938 .. 1,957,833
Added difference par value and cost
shares subsidiaries, £204,318 ..1,753,515
b/f net from cos. acquired, £32,359 1,785,874
1944.. 472,128 30,000 262,500 179,028 1,965,602
Reduction intangibles, £l2l .. 1,965,628
1945.. 470,466 30,000 262,500 177,966 2,143,589
Intangibles reduced, £75 .. .. 2,143,664
From tax provision, etc., £799,519.. 2,943,183
1946.. 450,735 30,000 262,500 158,235 3,101,418
1947.. 403,659 30,000 262,500 111,159 3,212,577
To plant & invest, reserve, £50,000 1,262,577
Unexplained additions res., £48,734 1,311,311
8J p.c. 8i p.c.
1948.. 355,179 25,000 218,750 111,429 3,422,740
* Reduced by book-value of intangibles (now
£1,051,898). f Excluding outside interests in
subsidiaries.
While an industry’s output is governed
by its capital equipment, its supply of
raw materials and the labor force avail-
able, it is equally true that the economic
problem is one of costs as well as sheer
weight of output. Production of this big
Victorian brewing organisation, which
enjoys a lion’s share of the trade in its
home State, has continued to expand.
Yet over the last three years there has
been a sharp fall of £115,287 in de-
clared net earnings.
Chief cause of the decline has been
the relentless pressure of costs —labor,
raw materials, power, transport and
everything else —upon a steadying rate of
turnover at fixed selling-prices. Last term
hops were scarce and dear, and some
were imported ; the price of sugar, barley
and other brewing ingredients rose, too,
and so did the basic-wage and margins
for skill, and the 40-hour week further
added to the co.’s troubles. Apart from
lifts in excise, which went up from Is.
9d. to 4s. 7d. a gallon over the last nine
years, the only rise Victorian brewers
have enjoyed in the selling-price of beer
since 1920 was 2d. a gallon on bulk
supplies as from Nov. 1, 1948 —too late
to benefit the last accounts. And signs
are not wanting that the steep upward
curve of turnover, which has taken care
of mounting costs for over a decade, is
beginning to flatten out. That means that
net earnings will become more sensitive
to the costs factor than hitherto.
After allowing an extra £6809 for
depreciation (£59,660), something for
taxation and sending £50,000 (nil in the
previous term) to plant and investment
reserve (making it £1,022,000), some, or
all, of which might be genuine profit,
the board wrote the net result £48,480
short of the 1947 figure at £355,179,
lowest since 1935. The £355,179 was
12.1 p.c. on the £2,925,000 of capital (it
includes 300,000 £1 7 p.c. prefs. which
advance with the ords. beyond that rate),
compared with 13.8, 15.4, 1-6, 16.1, 14.7,
17.2 and 19.1 p.c. back to 1941. That
leaves out of the reckoning the addition
to the plant and investment reserve,
already mentioned, and an unexplained
addition to reserves of £48,734. The
div. was lowered from 10 p.c. to 8| p.c.,
and the £111,429 that remained lifted
reserves £3,422,740 in excess of in-
tangibles (£1,051,893).
As for the current term, demand is
still strong, especially for bottled beer,
the 2d. lift in selling-price of bulk sup-
plies should help cushion the effects of
still-rising costs, and there is a comfort-
able margin between declared net earn-
ings—which appear to be conservatively
stated —and current rate of distribution.
It all suggests that the 8| p.c. div. is not
in any serious danger at the moment.
C.U.B.’s capital is not held directly by
the public, but by the following holding
cos., whose scrip is listed on ’Change:
Shares in Last Market
Paid C.U.B. Dir., Yield,
Capital. Par Value, p.c. p.c.
Melbourne Co-op. £431,981 £987,268 2D.8 3.6
Carlton .. .. 816,992 928,295 11.5 3.4
Castlemaine .. 225,000 176,121 6.7 3.7
Foster ~ * 115,200 124,573 10.0 3,6
Shamrock.. .. 141,345 124,573 8.5 3.7
McCracken’s .. 62,438 62,438 8,5 3.3
Miscellaneous .. 521,732 • ■ —
In addition to divs. from their holdings
in C.U.8., some of them gather rents,
etc., from properties on their own
account. In each case the div. has been
reduced because of smaller receipts from
C.U.8., and the market has adjusted its
bid for the scrip accordingly.
C.U.8., which owns over 8 p.c. of the
hotels in Victoria, has a million-pound
plant-extension and remodelling pro-
gramme ahead. Some £360,000-worth
of additional plant and equipment is now
either on the site or in transit, but much
of it will be unable to contribute to
earnings until new buildings are complete.
Last term £120,002 net was added to the
book-value of properties, and £116,707
to plant;
C.U.B. and Subsidiaries.
1941. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital .. £2,925,000 £2,925,000 £2,925,000
Outside interests* 9,993 13,656 14,974
Oreditorsf.. ~ 901,868 485,345 432,161
Suspense account ... 11,279 8,187 9,431
Freeholds,
breweries, etc... 2,429,160 2,850,175 2,970,177
Plant .. .. 689,461 531,520 648,227
Stocks, etc. .. 580,139 559,502 595,080
Book debts .. 1,293,306 1,227,862 1,156,525
Cash, etc 74Q.257 1,621,856 1,556,172
* Includes proportion reserves, f Includes tax
reserves.
To meet the outlay on fixed assets, carry
an extra £35,578 of stock and reduce
the creditors’ item by £53,184, the co.
drew upon cash, etc., for £65,684 and
reduced debtors’ balances by £71,337.
The contraction in the more-or-less liquid
surplus (£2,866,185) was only £49,503.
Rosella Preserving and Manufacturing
Rosblda Preserving and Subsidiaries.
To Re- Nominal
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.*
£ £ £ £
1941.. 65,348 12 p.c. = 48,000 7,348 139,011
1942.. 53,720 12 „ „ 48,000 5,720 144,731
1943.. 54,552 10 „ „ 40,000 14,552 169,283
1944.. 55,751 10 „ „ 40,000 15,751 175,034
1940.. 68,360 10 „ ~ 40,000 23,360 198,394
1946. . 64,504 10 „ „ 40,000 24,504 222,898
1947.. 66,124 10 „ „ 40,090 26,124 249,022
1948.. 65,986 10 „ ~ 40,000 25,986 275,008
* Subject to goodwill, etc., £30,524 at Sept. 30, 1948.
An efficient and enterprising organisa-
tion whose history has been one of steady
progress. It turns out a wide range of
high-grade canned foods, jams, condi-
ments, etc., from three factories in Vic.,
two in N.S.W., one in S. Aus. and another
in Tas. And as a backing to its efforts
to increase efficiency the co. has provided
its workers with the most modern plant
and equipment available.
Last term “very heavy increases in costs
were incurred owing to introduction of
the 40-hour week and higher wages, but
we have secured much new plant for all
our factories, and this will help to offset
such increases to an appreciable extent,”
the chairman says. It would, however,
be folly indeed to suppose that all we
need do now is sit down and wait for the
managerial revolution to solve all our
difficulties. If we do, valuable time will
be lost in learning the solid, if unpalat-
able, truth that the one way in which our
standard of living can be saved is by in-
creased effort on the part of everybody.
It is therefore up to the Government
and labor to do the rest. The Government
is far from giving the co, the support its
performances merit. A long-overdue cut
in company taxes, and a more realistic
view of the official tax-free allowance for
depreciation, would enable more to be
ploughed back into the business to the
benefit of employment; and the whittling-
-down of Empire preferences might yet
stand in the way of the co.’s new tomato-
processing factory at Tatura (Vic.) being
extended to deal with canned fruits. This
factory, which has cost over £BO,OOO to
date, came into production too late to
benefit the last accounts. Until organised
labor adopts a more rational outlook
under which wage adjustments reflect
changes in production and demand rather
than bargaining opportunities, the upward
pressure on the price-level, and all the
disadvantages that go with it, will con-
tinue.
Last term the home and export markets
absorbed a bigger output of jam and
canned fruits, etc. But owing to the quick
advance of costs the improvement in gross
earnings (£339,207) was only £8846. In-
cluding unspecified provision for taxation
and an extra £3474 for depreciation
(£23,565), trading exes, (£273,221) gobbled
the gain and £l3B besides. The £69,586
of profit was 16.5 p.c. on capital as against
16.5, 16.1, 15.8, 13.9, 13.6, 13.4 and 13.9
p.c. back to 1941. The div. was kept at
10 p.c., the average over the last 30 years
being approximately 11 p.c.
The year’s brisker trading and all-round
additions to plant, etc., are further re-
flected in balance-sheet figures :
1941. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Capital .. £400,000 £400,0010 £400,000 £400,000
S’dry creditors* 177,266 277,268 180,898 307,208
Property .. 186,305 204,778 221,248 252,128
Plant, etc. .. 54,421 80,437 91,696 118,373
Stock .. 364,594 285,217 311,611 474,632
Debtors . . 84,346 111,245 92,169 146,266
Cash, etc. ... 44,150 227,965 122,682 287
Goodwill, etc. 30,531 30,531 30,531 30,531
* Includes “provisions.”
To meet net additions of £57,557 to fixed
assets, carry an extra £163,021 of stocks
and £54,106 of book debts the co. drew
upon cash, etc., for £122,395. Contrac-
tion in the tiiore-or-less liquid surplus
(£273,976, after payment of div.) was only
£31,678.
As for the current term, favorable
seasonal conditions have resulted in over-
production of jam, selling-prices in both
home and export markets have been cut,
and current or lower prices are likely to
prevail until present stocks are reduced.
The co.’s products other than jam are
not affected. Hopes are that a better
supply of tin-plate will enable the co, to
pack some of its popular pre-war lines.
Advancing costs are still the chief obstacle
in the path of net earnings.
At 61s. (58s, 6d. a year ago) the f.-p.
pound shares return 3.3 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis, or 3.9 p.c. should the distribu-
tion be lifted to 12 p.p. Visibly the cover
is 325. 2d. in net tangibles.
United Insurance Co.
To Re- Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 46,862 9 p.c. a 40,500 6,362 520,863
1941.. 51,559 9 „ „ 40,500 1 R n( - 0 „ 99
To staff fund, £5OOO 6 ' 069 526,922
1942.. 60,874 9 p.c. = 40,500 J
To staff fund, £5OOO .. J 15 ’ 374 542,296
1943. • 61,674 9 p.c. 40,500 | -* h* ccq a*7c\
To staff fund, £5OOO ..f 16 ’ 174 558 ’ 470
1944. . 66,276 10 p.c. = 45,000 1 97a afifl 746
W/o premises, £lO,OOO .. ( 11,276 569,746
1945.. 67,397 10 p.c. = 45,000 ‘
To staff fund, £.5000 ' .. • 7,397 577,143
W/o premises, £lO,OOO ..
1946.. 70,282 10 p.c. = 45,000'
To staff fund, £5OOO ... *10,232 587,375
W/o premises, £lO,OOO ..
1947.. 75,159 10 p.c. = 45,000"
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 15,159 602,534
W/o premises, £lO,OOO ..
1948.. 92,505 12ip.c.— 56,2501 oce 698 789
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. \ 26,285 628,789
It was a larger volume of more profitable
underwriting that % put the spring of
£17,346 into the latest profit figure. Ex-
cept for an office in London, mainly
concerned with marine business, the co.’s
activities are confined to Australia and
New Zealand. Expanding trade activity,
especially in the marine field —export
prices for wool, wheat and metals were
at high levels —together with the
growth of merchant inventories, lengthen-
ing pay-rolls and steady increase in the
number of motor-vehicles on the road
all contributed to a substantial lift of
£202,878 in gross premium income, which
reached a record £1,045,991. Of the lot
40.9 p,c. (£427,707) was reinsured as
against 43.1 p.c. in the previous term,
leaving the gain in net premiums at
£130,715:
Net Pre- Ex- Loss Expense
miums. Losses, penses. Rate. Rate.
1925.. 297,720 101,465 146,677 34.0 p.c. 49.2 p.c.
1939.. 387,358 206,958 157,683 53.4 „ 40.7 „
1942.. 395,149 165,226 192,5171 41.8 „ 48.7 „
1943.. 335,624 126,174 173,1691 37.6 „ 51.6 „
1944.. 353,561 127,318 185,7461 36.1 „ 52.6 „
1945.. 366,177 125,132 199,0841 34.2 „ 54.4 „
1946.. 404,324 141,557 228,6291 35.0 „ 56.6 „
1947.. 487,569 192,706 256,1891 39.5 „ 52.6 „
1948.. 618,284 247,832 313,564 40.0 „ 50.7 „
1 After deducting investment income taxation.
Despite the unsatisfactory nature of
motor-vehicle and third-party risks and
continued high rate of cargo pilferage in
the ports, the loss rate increased by only
10s. p.c., and is still well below pre-war
average. Another pleasing feature is that
the bigger business was written at 38s.
p.c. less cost.
The underwriting surplus was, £18,214
stronger at £56,888, equal to 12.6 p.c. on
capital. Interest and rents turned in
£35,712 (down £838), or 7.9 p.c. on
capital. After allowing for minor re-
serve adjustments, the net return from all
sources was £92,505, or 20.5 p.c. on
capital as against 16.7, 15.6, 14.9, 14.7,
13.7 and 13.5 p.c. back to 1942. And
since the immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of a high level of premium in-
come, the board sent out a 2\ p.c. bonus
with the 10 p.c. div., making 12£ p.c.
for the year. After tossing £lO,OOO into
the staff fund, £26,255 remained, lifting
reserves (they include provision for un-
expired risks) £178,789 higher than paid
capital. On the two combined the year’s
net result was no more than 8.5 p.c.
Financially the co. is well equipped to
write a larger volume of business, and
policyholders and shareholders are, of
course, strongly protected:
1945. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £450,000 £460,000 £450,000 £450,000
Creditors* .. 375,112 371,390 405,309 438,548
Government
securities .. 710,890 642,850 652,850 652,850
Cash, book
debts, etc.. . 514,232 600,390 633,602 669,451
Debentures . . 40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000
Mortgages .. 65,771 50,378 66,245 99,811
Premises . . 118,862 112,645 102,645 98,975
* Including taxation/ etc.
Owing to the low return now obtained
from Government securities (unchanged)
more attention is being given to mort-
gages (up £33,566). The growths of
£35,849 in cash, etc., and of £33,239 in
creditors, etc., are interrelated.
The £450,000 of capital includes
£325,000 of bonus scrip issued during the
15 flush years to close of accounts in
1927. But until returns from invest-
ments more closely approximate the
dividend charge, a renewal of gift-giving
might prove a doubtful blessing. At £l6
the £lO shares paid to £5 each return
3.9 p.c. on a \l\ p.c. distribution. Net
tangible cover is £ll 19s. 4d,, and some
of the assets are known to be worth more
than book-value.
Automatic Totalisators, Ltd.
/ —' Dividends \ Nominal
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1942 .. 7,723 7$ Nil 3,875 152,880
1943 .. 19,508 7| 6 15,384 156,954
1944 . . 28,498 8 8 19,346 166,103
1945 . . 30,465 8 8 18,590 177,981
Advances written back, £11,000.. 1 201 735
1946 .. 35,830 10 10 23,056 j '
Advances written back, £4000..
Profit, sale of freehold, £24,743.. 240,554
1947 .. 33,494 10 10 24,196
From tax provision and advances |
written back, £40,092 .. .. 1 295,553
1948 .. 39,103 10 10 24,196 J
* Reserves are subject to book-values of patents
(£156,316) and of shares in Auto. Totes (France),
Ltd. (£111,105).
An investment made 10 years ago, not
on this co.’s racecourse machines but in
its ordinary shares, would now be worth
more than twice the original outlay
(’Changte quote is 395. compared with 18s.
in March, 1939) and would have yielded
an average 7.8 p.c. yearly over the period.
Punters can make their own compari-
sons. Still, it hasn’t been an unruffled
decade for the co., either, mainly because
of its overseas interests. The subsidiary
which set up a tote system at Longchamps
(Paris) in 1928 met a sequence of un-
foreseen setbacks —war, German occupa-
tion, a depreciating franc; and now,
when it is in a position to show real
earning form at last, ownership of this
totalisator passes to the French racing
authorities after the agreed period of 20
years. Under a special arrangement,
Automatic Totalisators will attend to the
machines for another five years, but on a
reduced profit-margin. Altogether the
French offshoot has brought more ex-
pense than comfort to its once-hopeful
parent. .
At home the story has been happier: the
strides taken by pari-mutuel business in


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established ISIS
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
O. 0. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches In all States Agencies in all Country Centres
FINEST INTERIOR
WATER PAINT
Maisone is a noteworthy water paint,
oil-bound for durability.
Maisone colours have been chosen with
the greatest care so that they will
give the utmost in distinction and at
the same time blend it with
practically any type of
furnishing scheme.
1 gallon makes 11 gallons of paint
preharmonised c
A TRUE STORy
QUIT
m
Hospital clerk
learns
wages computation
An applicant who had been
placed as a clerk in an Austra-
lian hospital by the Common-
wealth Employment Service
called back to the District
Employment Officer after a
month on the job. He said that
he had experienced no difficulty
in most duties of the position,
but that the compilation of
nurses’ wages sheets involving
the calculation of overtime and
broken time, was proving a
nightmare.
It so happened that prior to
joining the service, the Employ-
ment Officer had been for some
time Secretary of a small hospi-
tal in another State. After
questioning the clerk about his
compiling methods, he arranged
to meet him after business
hours in order to teach him the
principles and practice of
wages computation. After being
shown an efficient and “short-
cut” method of making up the
wages sheets, the clerk respond-
ed to the tuition, and was
most grateful for the help
received in holding down hi#
job.
This actual case, one of many
thousands recorded in the
official files of the Common-
wealth Employment Service,
shows how Employment Officers
take advantage of opportunities
to consolidate a placement after
an applicant takes over his new
job. No charge or obligation
is involved when an employer
or employee benefits by the
friendly advice and practical
assistance available, throughout
Australia, at any Branch or
District Office of the Common-
wealth Employment Service.
COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
Offices throughout Australia,
Consult your telephone directory
for addresses.
pj3H n
DAVIES & GOLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * #
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney,
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Write or Call for
Free Booklet ,
19 O’Connell Street
(Box 7A, 0.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pollen, Public Trustee.
Tl Hill Silva Year Hooey Worries
Trm
r
A personal, confidential service
Is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed.
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills, come fai
and talk It over.
RURAL BANK
Head Office i Martin Place* Sydney*
FONDE EN 1724
REMY MARTIN
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom before, if ever,
imported into Australia. Obtainable at most retailers.
BOTTLES, 36/9; HALF BOTTLES, 18/9; MINIATURES, 2/3.
(These prices are slightly higher in West Anstralia and Qld.)
:
fT INVESTMENT
IN INDUSTRY Jk
FOR
GOVERNMENT A
I LOANS JBF
mmsk
m
help provide
the
in nor policy
t
ţ
ť
If you are the owner of a life assurance policy
you probably enjoy benefits not guaranteed
in your contract . . . the “plus” of added
bonuses. These arise because your Life OfTce
invests your savings in a wide range of com-
munity services. The interest earned, coupled
with the fact that costs of life assurance
management in Australia are the lowest in the
world, ensures that you receive that welcome
“plus” in your policy . . . the benefit of
added bonuses.
THREE MILLION POLICYHOLDERS . . SEVEN AND A HALF
MILLION AUSTRALIANS, MATERIALLY BENEFIT THROUGH
LIFE ASSURANCE
ISSUED BY THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
2/229
recent years are shown in these
figures of the co.:
Toth Turnover : Australia.
Year to June 30,
1938-39-40 (average) ..£4,284,021
1945 13,600,728
1946 16,747,332
1947 15,232,873
1948 17,475,162
Greatest benefits from this re-
markable advance have accrued
to the State Governments, which
take varying levies on turnover in
their respective domains. In N.
S. Wales the figure is 5 p.c.; an-
other 5 p.c, is shared between
the race clubs and the co.,
which has to pay mainten-
ance and administrative costs,
income-tax, etc. The co.’s latest
profit of £39,103 represented
about 0.2 p.c. on tote turnover.
This profit—declared after pro-
viding £6977 for depreciation
and £25,000 for tax —was 17.7
p.c. on the co.’s ordinary capital
after meeting the preference div,,
as against 15.3, 16.6 and 13.7
p.c, in the previous three years.
Automatic Totalisators has a
world-wide clientele for its
machines, and of the overseas
orders which have,come in fairly
strongly in recent months.
several will provide dollars for
this country. To increase output
last term, £73,768 was spent on
fixed assets and stocks rose
£154,188. In consequence, cash
balances had to be reduced by
£44,084 while the board went to
the bank and other creditors for
£165,330;
1939. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital— £ £ £
Ordinary .. 191,825 191,966 191,966
Pref. .. 60,000 50,000 50,000
Reserves—
General .. 6,820 26,554 65,553
Special .. 141,000 214,000 230,000
Overdraft .. 5,560 106,227
Creditors .. 2,787 81,379 140,482
Tax provision.. 3,274 69,199 64,391
Freeholds .. 44,472 108,906 132,635
Plant .. .. 4,868 105,742 136,156
Tote installations 13,707 18,079 37,704
Stocks .. .. 6,253 65,394 219,682
Debtors .. 67,600 24,452 34,632
Gash .. .. 16,773 67,177 23,093
Shares in French
co 111,105 111,105 111,105
Patents .. 150,825 150,825 156,316
Nominal capital was raised from
£250,000 to £500,000 in Decem-
ber, but so far there has been no
announcement regarding a new
issue.
At 395. the £1 ords. yield 5.1
p.c. on last div. basis. Exclud-
ing patents and the shares in
the French subsidiary, they have
net asset backing of 245. Id.
each. The exact worth of the
French scrip is problematical.
This offshoot will shortly repay
its pref. shares, leaving £lOO,OOO
of ordinary capital, entirely
owned by Automatic Totalisa-
tors; according to the sub-
sidiary’s balance-sheet last June,
its £1 ords. were backed by
current assets of 12s. sd. each,
but subsequent depreciations of
the franc will have reduced their
value considerably.
Coronet Oil Co., in the Placer
Development group, has sunk
three oil-wells on its Andector
leases, Texas (U.S.). The first
(8415 ft.), completed June, 1948,
flowed at the rate of 1891 barrels
a day; the second (8458 ft.), com-
pleted Sept., 1948, test yielded
986 barrels daily. In each case
the flow was from the Ellen-
burger formation which the third
hole entered at 8255 ft., passed
through 95ft. of faulted
ground, and continued to
present bottom at 8700 ft. Three
other oil - bearing strata were
passed through Clearfork
6140 ft. to 6250 ft., McKee 7934 ft.
to 8052 ft. and Waddell 8200 ft.
to 8300 ft. —all gave indications
of profitable production. Maxi-
mum daily flow is officially
limited to 200 barrels per well,
and is being sold at $3 a barrel.
After payment of royalties, etc.,
each well is,expected to return
Placer about $lOO,OOO p.a., and
at 200 barrels a day may have a
life of up to 15 years or more.
Cost (some $125,000, of which
Placer pays $78,000) should be
recovered in about 10 months.
It is too early yet to say how
many wells the co. is likely to
sink eventually.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Solitude”: As it was our last day on
the road we decided we’d buy a midday
feed at the pub to save packing tucker.
Leaving Blue in charge of the mob we
washed, turned our shirts clean-side out
and made for the dining-room. With
Seventyfiver clinging desperately to his
hat, we broke trail through a heavy out-
crop of silver and glassware and eventu-
ally shoved ourselves behind a comer
table. “Croquettes, hot casserole, or Uora
Trippale?” the waitress attacked the old
bloke relentlessly. “Eh? Yair; well;
er —get’s some meat an’ spuds, will y’?
The meat hacked off thick ; or a good big
bone’ll do.” She eyed him dubiously, and
presently brought what he wanted. With
that mopped, she advanced for the second
round. “Sweets?” she chirped at him.
“Norwegian souffle, Boston Charlotte or
Rod Grod?” “Aw, cripes, ain’t y’ go.t no
puddin’?” he mourned. “See if y’ can’t
dig us up a slab o’ duff or a few sinkers
or somethin’. An’ don’t put no gravy on
’em.” She looked puzzled. “Cream?”
she inquired. “On me puddin’? No, no,”
he said hastily. “Cripes, a bloke’d never
get the flamin’ stuff out of ’is'hair,” Her
jaw dropped, she backed off and delivered
his order warily. He was still hugging his
lid under one arm when we returned to
the mob, and he whistled the mong.
“There, I saved y’ half,” he announced,
opening his hat and presenting Blue with
a slice of meat and hunk of pudding, plus
three miniature slices of bread and two
cubes of cheese. “But, cripes, it’s not my
fault pub meals ain’t what they used t’
be.”
♦ * » ♦
“Betcha”: Most creatures, it seems,
will bite in certain circumstances.
There’s no doubt mice will, and rats, and
I’ve even been bitten on the finger by a
rabbit, though whether his action was
owing to fright or a resolve to give me
a go for it there’s no telling, A neigh-
bor’s wife, I was emphatically assured,
was bitten by a common tarantula. One
old crawler I’d have bet my shirt on for
mildness until the other day, when I was
chopping at a patch of prickly-box. Hear-
ing a persistent hissing, I looked around
and discovered a big sleepy lizard a couple
of feet off. His mouth was wide open, and
he was evidently telling me where to get
off, in his worst possible language. Won-
dering what he’d do, I pushed the shovel
towards him. There was no hesitation.
He came to meet it, grabbed the edge of
the blade, and preceded to give it hell.
Still don’t know what put old blue-
tongue out —whether he objected to me
cutting box, had something planted in
that particular clump, or whether, like my-
self, he just hates all shovels on principle.
* * * *
“Hanko”: A warm sun tempered by
a cool southerly breeze had us working
with a will. “Cripes,” the boss said,
glancing at the few chains remaining to
the dividing-fence. “We’ll git all the
posts in be five o’clock.” Home to a
midday dinner of roast lamb, baked
spuds and cauliflower, followed by a
deep-dish peach pie with cream. We had
two helpings of each course—big help-
ings, too. The trump’s pipe clattering to
the floor aroused me. “Aw, well,” he
said, groping sleepily for the pipe. “I
suppose we better do a bit more.” After
a few strokes with the sinking-bar he
threw the thing down and pulled out his
pipe. “I reckon it’s all rot about these
here vitamins,” he grunjbled. “Strike
me roan, I coulda put in the rest of them
posts on a drink of water an’ a dawg-
biscuit. Now I’m chockful of good
tucker I ain’t got the energy to belt a
fly outer me eye.” He threw himself
down and tilted his hat over his face.
“D’ yer know if there was any of that
pie left?” he mumbled. I couldn’t be
bothered answering him.
* * * ♦
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d filtered down the
N.S.W. coast and ran into a place called
Sydney. Big town, all noise and rushing
about and pubs on every comer. Me
and Mat looked it over and was sitting
on a seat in a park when the big fellow
said, “Let’s get out o’ this, mate. Trouble
with these big towns there’s too many
people. Now you an’ me could sit on
a bench in Bogan Gate or Wallendbeen
or Wee Waa or one o’ them towns, an’
in about two minutes we’d have one o’
the locals talkin’ t’ us. He’d wanter know
where we come from an’ where we was
headin’ an’ what the country looked like
down south an’ did we know Cockeye
Jones in Barellan an’ if we ever was up
the Marthaguy. Then he’d tell us all
about the locals, which was the best boss
an’ where we could get a bit o’ fencin’
"Sit up like your dadda, dear.”
or a hand-out an’ the time they drug
Charlie Wilson out o’ the lagoon. Then
me or you or him or somebody else
would say, ‘What about a drink?’ an’
we’d head f’r the pub an’ meet some more
blokes an’ get talkin’. But here”—he
glared at the passing crowd —“here, well,
cripes, if y’ grin at anyone they reckon
y’re after somethin’ or done y’r nut. Let’s
get out o’ this, mate.” We got.
* * * *
“Chuck”; “Can you give us a ride
into town, Hal?” “Sure, Chari. Hop
in.” Charlie got in, Hal slammed in the
gears, and within a matter of yards the
car was hitting 40, The speedo climbed
rapidly, till a bad invert brought the
brake into action. “Road’s a bit better
round here,” remarked Hal, losing a
streak of paint to a white post. “Y-yair.”
Steadily they increased to 65, and were
still creeping up, when there was a loud
report. The car shot to the off-side of
the road, sidled drunkenly, and after a
series of forward lurches convulsed itself
to a standstill. Calmly Hal climbed out
and eyed the back tyre, “Made a job of
it, didn’t she?” he remarked. “Got no
spare, either. Here’s old Bill, We’ll get
a ride in with him.” As Bill’s old tourer
chugged along at 25, Charlie yarned to
the driver, and Hal watched the road.
Hal’s only contribution was to flinch as
Bill missed a guard-post by 3ft., and his
grip on the seat shifted to a clutch on
Charlie’s shoulder as the downhill run
increased the pace to 30. “Sorry to let
you in for that, Chari,” he said as they
made town and the pub. “I’d never have
asked the silly cow f’r a lift if I’d known
he was such a reckless flamin’ driver.”
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”; Just above Perth,
circled by the Swan, lies an island, Burs-
wood, which houses two racecourses. But
it wasn’t always an island; when W.A.’s
first fleet arrived it was a sort of inland
peninsula, which entailed a circuit of
about three miles, on the completion of
which the boatman, usually rowing or*
poling a flat, laden with all his possessions,
including wife and children, and perhaps
a cow or a few sheep, arrived back
almost at where he started. So Henry
Revelley put it to Governor Stirling that
a cutting across the neck was a feasible
project. A contract was taken by
seven navvies, with John Crane as
spokesman. This canal took the seven
stalwarts just 107 days to dig; 834 ft. in
length with an average breadth of 19ft.,
it had a mean depth of 7ft. In places the
width ran to 44ft„ in others it contracted
to 19ft. The soil was, of course, the
loose sand of Perth, but most of it had
necessarily to be harrowed out, since the
Swan in those days was innocent of any
earth-moving machinery, even a horse
and dray. Opened on August 3, 1831,
this canal is still providing a short-cut for
the now infrequent boat traffic of the
Upper Swan. Revelley estimated the
removed soil at 4255 cubic yards—shifted
by seven men in 107 days, counting Sun-
days, when it was forbidden to work.
Truly they were a hardy breed, the John
Cranes of long ago.
* * * *
“Groper”: So “Kilkennicat” (B.
19/1 / ’49) has seen snakes travelling back-
wards ! Reminds me of Carr Boyd, noted
raconteur and explorer of Coolgardie
days. On a visit to England Carr under-
took to deliver a lecture on Australian
serpents. Asked to describe how a snake
dug its hole, and what it did with the
excavated dirt, always notably absent
from the immediate surroundings, Carr
introduced the corkscrew snake. This
reptile, roused from the customary ser-
pentine coil, stood on its tail, and, whirl-
ing rapidly, burrowed into the ground just
as a corkscrew burrows into a cork. Carr
also explained that this particular reptile
was fitted with a hard bony blade at the
end of its tail, much after the style of the
rattlesnake. Now, has any of the bush
fraternity ever come across the cork-
screw snake? Also, will they explain to
one who has never had the luck to see
a snake digging its hole how the reptile
does it; and what does it do with the
soil? Incidentally, one ancient bushie
informs me that the corkscrew is some-
times called the gimlet snake.
* * * *
“Naturala”; A snake goes into its hole
head-first, and emerges head-first. So the
hole somewhere below must be capacious
enough for the occupant to turn round in,
otherwise it would have to emerge tail-
first, While yarning with Old Sam
in his bush humpy I saw a big black
snake slither across the dirt floor and
dive into a small hole under a large
packing-ease. “I’ve been waiting for that
bloke to be home, and somebody to be
here. Now we’ll just lift that case gently
and see where he goes.” The lift was
easy. The snake’s residence was immedi-
ately under the bottom of the box, it
having used the boards for a roof, and
before it started for the door we had a
good look. It was lying much in the form
of a capital U, head close alongside the
tip of the tail, ready for instant emergence
or the defence of its abode.
* * * *
“J.M.C.”: “Worst writing I ever came
across was old Tom Spain’s,” said Jack
Adams, “When he died the family
assembled to hear the will, but nobody
could read it. They had to send for a
handwriting expert, who decided it was
written in French and stated that all his
money was left to the local hospital. As
the family knew old Tom didn’t know
one word of French they applied to the
court. A Judge finally interpreted the
will to read that all the proceeds of the
estate were to be divided equally among
the next-of-kin. Years afterwards it was
discovered that the screed wasn’t a will
at all but only a recipe for a sheep-
drench,” “I can quite believe that,”
chipped in Big Bill. “I remember the
fencing contract we had with Tom, and
after we’d been paid for the job we asked
him if he’d give us a reference. He
scribbled a note and asked us to hand it
to his bank-manager, who’d have a proper
reference typed out for us. The bank
bloke took it into his office, and a few
minutes later came out and handed us
twenty quid!”
• * • *
“South Coast”; Mention of Tin Can
Island (B. 2/2/’49) recalls that it is also
the home of one of the world’s curiosi-
ties ; a bird that, no larger than a pigeon,
lays an egg the size of a double-yoked
hen-egg and brick-red in color. The
Tongan Government put a ban on the
collection of these eggs 20 years ago, but
now the evacuation of the human popula-
tion may give the birds a chance to in-
crease ; especially as the Malau lays its
abnormal egg only twice a year. Like
the rest of the Megapode family, it leaves
the egg to hatch in a mound of sand,
and the youngster fends for itself.
• ♦ * *
“Billy T.”: Everybody had emptied
their glasses except Jimmie, who was
dragging to the epd of a whiskery anec-
dote. That finished, he drained the middy
and I stood them up again. Bert the
barman wafted them beneath the tap
and set them to settle, but when he came
back to top them up one had lost its
head. “Old Jimmie out there with you?”
he queried. I nodded. “He always does
that to draught beer,” said Bert. “Must
be his breath or something”; and after
topping ours from the jug he dashed J.’s
under the bowser again and I took it out
with foam sliding down the sides. No
further yam having yet got under way,
there was a general “Here’s luck” and a
swig ; but when James put his glass down
after that first taste the froth had gone
and to all appearances he had an issue
of cold tea. I noticed nothing lethal
about his breath. Any scientists in the
Council?
* * * *
“Spinifex”: “Pat C.’s” pet Too (B.
9/2/’49) which dragged' a man down be-
fore “puttting in some good word with
the hind-legs” appears to be a unique?
specimen. All the Toos of my acquaint-
ance preferred a more upright target.
Their most effective ripping was done
with the middle toe, the kick connecting
at some height from the ground, with
the whole weight of the animal above it.
Can’t imagine how a Too could get in
really good leg-work with an opponent
on the ground. But perhaps Westralian
Toos have hind-legs specially designed
for plain and fancy groundwork.
* ♦ * *
“E.H.S.”: Like “Zake” (B. 2/2/’49), I
regard with some scepticism Jacky Kooka-
burra’s ability to hoist off the ground
snakes of respectable girth or length. I
recall seeing a settler in n.-e. Victoria
refilling a 4ft. ditch with the previously
excavated material. It was in July, and
the hibernating reptiles were given a bash
or two with the shovel as they were
unearthed, and thrown aside. A length
of 12 chains panned out about 150 snakes
of all sizes, from a few inches to five-
footers, with the smaller sizes predominat-
ing. A number of Jacks watched the
proceedings from near-by trees and
stumps; they took no interest whatever
in anything over a foot or so in length,
but for the smaller ones there was keen
competition. .
* * * *
“Bon-yi”: Had the good fortune to
travel through the last great stand o
hoop-pine in Southern Queensland me
other day. Over 20,000 acres of mountains
and valleys tucked away between the
eastern and western headwaters or t
Brisbane River, where it heads norm-
easterly of Nanango. It is stacked wit
great trees, between 80 to 120 inches m
girth, and rough estimates give atotalor
over 100 million super, feet. me
Main Roads Commission is putting
the finishing touches to the nver-cross-
ings of the old river-road from Lmvill
towards the forestry station o ■
Stanley, about 23 miles upstream,
road is different to the usual mam road,
it crosses the Brisbane River a
times in the 23 miles, with only one
short bridge—the rest are concrete cros
ings. The river doesnt sta m W
long and the crossings serve wL
admirably. Scattered the hoop
pine are some great old buny P ’
closely allied families.
first-favorite with Black Broth
of their seed-cones, weighing up to did.
of “good-fella tucker. Almost e\e
bunya-tree of size has the deep sears
Binghi’s toeholds still showing
where he climbed. It won’t take long
for the loggers to c l ea & up e
but it will be years before the wnm
pS. ?ut £ Ss b a U toe a 4 Sm *£
Sri p Wi rea" *°e f Sf P
The rough, mountainous country ca
big herds of deer.
DREAMER.
Feel you a touch that is clinging,
See you a movement of green
In the rustle of grasses springing,
As if where a foot has been?
And what are the breezes playing,
And the bright waters saying?
Something so gay and serene.
See you the green trees bending,
Whispering leaf to limb,
Merry their messages sending,
Nodding green heads to him?
And what is the song that passes
In the cool depths of the grasses,
So blithe and light in the dim?
Is it the sands are singing,
Is it the flowers that dance?
Even the brambles are bringing
Blossoms that flutter and glance;
And is it an echo staying,
Or rhythm of tussocks swaying
Where green feet point and prance?
See how he walks in his wonder,
Wistful and gay and wise,
With never a cloud of thunder
To darken the light in his eyes:
On through the landscape mellow
At foot with each green and yellow
And all the colors that rise:
Poet, who strives in his dreaming,
Only a dream to win,
A light in his verses gleaming
That shines from his heart within;
The joy of the earth around him:
The earth that never has bound him,
Dancing for Roderic Quinn.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


“Spinifex”: The morning after old
Greenhide, the new J.P., came into the
township the trooper put it on him to sit
on the bench. “Just a straightout case,”
he remarked airily. “Won’t take long.”
To his dismay the old bloke found one
of his own “boys” up before him for
stealing a packsaddle. The evidence was
conclusive ; but, back at the station, they
were just about to 'start mustering ; and
on a cattle-camp Tarpot was a good man.
Gloomily his Worship turned the pages
of the law-books in front of him. Sud-
denly he thrust them aside. “I’ve looked
all through these ’ere books,” he an-
nounced loftily, “an’ there ain’t a flamin’
one of ’em sez a word about packsaddles.
Case dismissed!”
* * * *
“Arnica”: Although much of the
lamentation indulged in by the abos on
the death of one 1 of their community is
affected and insincere, and designed to
placate the debil-debils, there must be
much kindness and unselfishness in the
hearts of those who carry relics of the
departed about with them. Sometimes it
is the whole body that is carried from
place to place and used as a pillow at
night to protect it from sneaking animals.
In other cases one bone is cherished and
occupies an honored place in the dilly-bag
amid lily-roots, seeds and the sweet 'pink
lotus blooms which are reserved especi-
ally for baby to chew. Sometimes it is
worn suspended around the neck, whence
it can be swiftly whisked for hurling at
a fat goanna or cheeky-fella rat or snake;
but it is always carefully dusted and
quickly replaced. When at last it becomes
white and reasonably sterile it is discarded
without burial or ceremony of any kind.
This strange custom of relic-bearing gave
rise in the early days to the charge of
cannibalism levelled against the blacks.
* * * *
“L.G.8.”: The spider strung the
first strong line across the open space,
then proceeded to hang his irregular web
from it. A leaf of suitable size and
texture was chosen and hung in a shel-
tered spot at the top of the web. Fine
threads round the leaf itself brought the
edges together into a comfortable tunnel-
nest in which to wait for victims whose
presence would be signalled on the com-
municating lines through the web. A
hornet came cruising along. He hovered,
taking special note of the leaf in
its inaccessible position under the top of
the web. Reconnaissance over, he flew
to the extreme end of the topmost com-
municating-line and “brrrrr” went his
wing against it. Out popped Arachne, but
not far enough. He saw nothing and
ducked back again. Again the hornet
sent his fake message over the line and
again Arachne rushed out, a bit farther
this time. At the fourth alarm Arachne,
anger apparently overcoming his natural
caution, came a long way out —and that
was what the hornet bad been working
for. With a neat power-dive he zoomed
on to his victim ; and how there’s a house
to let in the bottom of our garden.
* ♦ * *
“Old-timer”: “You remember,” Stone-
man asked, “how we used t’ reckon if
ever we won Tatt’s or somethin’ we’d
buy a good little bush pub an’ retire?
Well, that’s just another way she’s
changed. I was in Bill Clarkson’s pub
at North Murchison coupla munce ago.
Bill’s still there, but he’s got old an’
crabby. Y’ see, in our time, when y’
had a little rubbedy like that, all y’ had
t’ do was sit in the bar an’ sell y’r booze
an’ smokes. The wimmen looked after
the eatin’-room an’ the groom ran the
stables an’ yard an’ looked after the
commercial travellers’ cases. Cripes, y’
orter see it now! Bill couldn’t give y’
a feed, ’cos no wimmen’U work in the
place an’ if they do they want a thousan’
a year an’ free beer. The last one he had
come into the bar one day when Bill was
servin’ drinks an’ wanted a bottle o’
beer. Bill fcep’ her waitin’ ten minutes
He ain’t seen her since. He can’t get a
groom for love or money ; got t’ handle
all the luggage himself or make the
travellers do it tbeirsclves. Then they
“She asked for it—she WOULD have one through her nose!”
turn round an’ complain t’ the C.T.A,
an’ Bill gets snortin’ letters. But the
worst part is he don’t get enough beer.
Only comes in dribs an’ drabs. Half the
time he’s sold out be ten in the momin’
an’ got none till the day after t’morrer.
Gripes,” said Stoneman thoughtfully,
“what I’d give f’r a pub where the beer
could be on all the time!”
* * * *
“Hanko”: With late summer the field-
crickets commence their fiddling, an irri-
tating sound to the human ear. Soon
after sunset they tune-up with a few
rasps of the file-like serrations of the rear-
legs against the hard wing-cases, then
comes suddenly a crescendo of rasping
noise. At fall of darkness the fiddling
ceases with stunning abruptness, leaving a
listener shocked in the sudden silence.
The mole cricket, twice the size of the
field cricket, brown in color and a some-
what fearsome-looking creature, doesn’t
fiddle, but gives out an occasional short,
sharp “brrp” sound The mole is a strong
flyer and often takes to the air when
disturbed. Enclosed in the hand, its
powerful digging-claws will almost force
the fingers apart.
* * * *
“Bullshead”: A blazing day on the
station, with branding in full swing. The
calves were a bit big, and the bronco
horses and the ringers were both flat-out.
Ted, the head stockman, had just finished
explaining to Claude, who had come along
at lunch-time and been given a job as
brand-boy, what he had to do. The first
calf after the lunch-break was a lively
yearling Mick, and Claude gazed popeyed
at the flurry of legs and cloud of dust at
the end of the bronco-rope. A wild bawl-
“Stop thief!"
ing came out of the scrum, and then, as
old Ted roared for the brands, Claude
grabbed them and galloped for the bronco
panel. Dodging under the nose of the
startled bronco horse, he jumped on to the
bottom rail of the panel and swung the
hot brands over. Ted, rising from the
flanks of the heaving beast after using
the knife, fell backwards as the smoking
brands singed his ginger beard, and the
blackboy on the hind-leg ducked and let
go. Quick to take advantage of the
slackening the yearling bounded to his
feet and, still held by the leg-ropes,
came up hard against the panel,
jamming the brands back through the rail
and on to the moleskin-clad leg of the
budding cattleman. Bawling as loud as
the frenzied bull, Claude mechanically
held to the brands for several seconds
before the ringers piled on to the beast
and yanked him down. Claude spent a
week on the blankets of his swag while
his leg healed.
“Zake”: For sheer intrepidity I’d say
that Willy Wagtail goes even beyond the
magpie. Watched one dancing with tan-
talising impudence a few inches above
the head of a cat, the twitching tail-tip
of which was a sure sign of the boiling
nature of its fury. Tiring of the sport
after a while, Willy hopped on to the
ground, twirled his long rudder aloft and
treated the cat with utter contempt. What
he didn’t notice, though, was another cat
approaching from behind a shrub. A
leap, and Willy was a prisoner. It was
then that my hand descended on puss’s
neck and the pressure made him disgorge
his unharmed victim,. Willy picked him-
self up and flew straight up to the fence.
I drop-kicked the feline thug. Five
minutes later Willy was again hovering
insolently over the original cat.
« * * •
“C.R.”: A thin, wiry cove, he had the
reputation of having the best rabbit-decoy
formula on the Monaro, but we couldn’t
understand how he achieved such good
results rearing turkeys in fox country.
“It’s iiery simple,” he drawled in one of
his few oratorical moments. “Just let the
old girls set wherever they want to and
run a complete circle of phenyl round
their nests and the foxes will never cross
it.” Any of the Council agree?
* * * *
“Bo”: Dad usually enjoyed showing
visitors over the farm. It gave him the
rare opportunity to air his knowledge.
But this particular city visitor was the
trying kind. Dad would get as far as
“Crop o’ lucerne cornin’ on here,” when
the visitor would take over and start about
some marvellous lucerne his brother used
to grow down on the south coast, and
from that he would switch to world
markets and high politics. It developed
into a Cook’s tour, with the guide taking
the earbashing, and by the time they
were half-way around Dad was
thoroughly fed-up. “I notice,” bleated
his visitor, “that you haven’t much
modern farm machinery here. On the
newsreels I’ve seen machines used for
digging things like potatoes and parsnips.
Now” Dad hopped in. “Useter
use shear-legs an’ a block an’ tackle fer
gettin’ our parsnips out,” he said. “They
were that big. But I got on to a better
method than that.” “What?” pursued
the visitor curiously. “A tractor or some-
thing? ” “Aw, no, didn’t need machinery,”
went on Dad. “Simply crossed me par-
snips with corkscrew grass. Now all we
gotter do is slip a brace over the top o’
the parsnips an’ screw ’em out.”
* * * *
“Radian”: Met up with a timber in
New Guinea that gave remarkable re-
sults when used for submerged bearings
on marine propeller shafts. In a work-
shop unit during the war we were at a
loss to find a substitute for the rubber
composition used in outboard bearings
of some landing-craft. Any type of metal
bearing tried cut out in less time than
it took to fit. In casting about for some-
thing different a bright spark re-
membered that lignum vitae was used
for much the same purpose, and he turned
up trial bearings from a greasy-looking
local timber. These actually gave better
service than the original bearings. The
tree concerned was common around Buna
and Oro Bay, although I don’t remember
seeing it further up the coast. The name,
I think, was cussa-cussa.
* * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: Amid the current clamor
against the cruelties of Plumpton hare-
coursing and strange refusal to see
the atrocities committed in the training
of greyhounds for mechanical-hare
racing, “Doggo’s” condemnation of cer-
tain dog-training “sportsmen” (B,
16/2/ ’49) was as refreshing as a southerly-
buster. I once saw the remnants of a
cat that had been tom up by greyhounds.
Its claws had been pulled out —valuable
dogs must not be exposed to risk of
injury! An isolated case? I sincerely
hope so. My mate once saw a stranger
engage some kids in conversation. In-
vestigation showed that he was bar-
gaining for their pet possum. The
couple of notes flourished failing to make
the kids part with their pet, the chap was
raising his bid when the kid’s father came
up, “You’ve got kids, too?” grinned
the latter. “No,” the “sport” whispered.
“Don’t let on to the kids, but I’ve got a
pretty good bitch; she’d be a champion
if she didn’t want to play when she’s in
a race. What she needs is a couple o’
good kills, and yoij can’t beat a possum.”
No ; the possum was not torn up by dogs.
But the visitor’s pants were —Bluey caught
him as he got to the sliprails.
♦ ♦ * *
“Old Camp”: Anyway, While this hple-
boring is under discussion, does anyone
nowadays use a “jumper”? Back in the
days of Ballarat bluestone quarries a
“jumper” was a double-ended bar about
6ft. long, both ends being chisel-pointed.
Standing with his feet slightly spread, a
good jumper-man could put down a 6in.
hole, an inch in diameter, as neatly as
though boring with diamond drill, A line
of such holes across the face of a rock to
be split gave accommodation for wedges
and feathers; feathers being semi-
circular wedge pieces placed in the hole
first, the wedge proper being driven down
between each pair. Thus a big bluestone
rock could be split and squared perfectly.
The expert jumper-man had to place his
chisel-end accurately; any wandering
would result in the collar of the hole be-
coming cupped, with the result that the
splitting-power of the wedges would be
nullified.
* * * ♦
“E.”: There were several of us seated
on the edge of the pub verandah when
Spud arrived in, followed by a dozen or
more mongs. “Brought your pack, Ted,”
he told the bloke on the end. “Thanks
for the loan of ’em. Talk about a
'* harvest! Most o’ the rabbits out in the
back hadn’t seen a dog before, and for
the first couple of days, till they woke up,
the dogs just had to go and pick ’em up.
A lot of ’em never even tried to run
away.” We digested the statement, be-
lieving it or not as we thought fit, but it
was too much for Charlie. “Y’ can’t tell
me a rabbit wouldn’t run away from a
big animal like a dog,” he objected.
“They don’t run away from cows or
horses,” Spud pointed out. “And the
rabbits on the roads don’t take any notice
of cars going past.” “You try shootin’
at ’em a time or two, out of a car,” said
Charlie, “and soon they won’t let one ge,t
within fifty yards.” “Yair, but that’s ’cos
they’ve learned,” argued Spud. “Where
I been, there ain’t no dingoes or foxes,
and the bunnies weren’t scared o’ the
dogs.” Lucky the pub was there, or
the question might never have been
settled satisfactorily.
* * ♦ *
“The Pirate”: Few fish can fight like a
Yank flathead if he’s in the mood. Out
flounder-spearing at Kalymna, on Vic-
toria’s Gippsland lakes, I casually thrust
a spike into a five-pounder, and, as he
hardly moved, I wondered why my mate,
a professional spearer, came to my assist-
ance. When I jabbed the barb into the
next bloke, however, I knew why. He
kicked up the water like the wash of a
propeller and got away from the two of
us. It was only by using two spears and
dragging the fish along the bottom that
we were able to get these outsize in
flatties ashore.
BUSH SCHOOL.
Do you remember, my dear old friend,
The school, the first that we knew,
Near the bend in the road at the five-mile peg,
By the swamp where the bulrushes grew;
The hard-baked clay of the old school yard,
Worn smooth by our shoeless feet,
The rendezvous by the edge of the swamp,
Where we and our friends would meet?
Do you remember the seas we sailed,
In our galleon the railway tank;
The battles we raged with bat and ball
At the rear of the old bush bank.
How often the ghost of Ned Kelly rode,
As we chased it through tea-tree and gum,
How we fooled the coastguard time and again
As we smuggled in gallons of rum?
Old Mick’s been gone a score of years
To that heaven where ponies go;
How oft do you dream of his brawny back,
That we straddled in days long ago;
See us clatter down to Quondong Creek,
By the gums in the old Ghost Lane,
Past Devil’s Elbow and over the hill
To our homes way out on the plain.
I remembered, my dear old friend,
As I passed it yesterday;
It is still the same, and there seems no change
In the happy children at play.
A lad I saw there with fair, curly hair,
Could have been Harry or Roy,
While the freckle-faced youngster who smiled
“Hello”
Could have been you as a boy.
W.A.
W. E. BROWN.


i
Is
m
vm
“That’s the case
like to have!’’
a/i*^
t
(pAW/
Swelling, Soreness
MOIST HEAT
The moist heat of an
Antiphlogistine poultice relieves
pains, reduces swelling, limbers
up stiff, aching muscles due to
simple sprains, bruises or similar
conditions. Used by many
doctors all over the world.
It’s easy to get the
benefits of moist
heat. Just apply
Antiphlogistine poultice
hot enough to be
comfortable—then feel
the moist heat go right
to work on sore, aching
parts.
t
dWipUagistiiiei
■
WSTT3T
CLOTH
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. h.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBE DISTBIBDTION CO.
(Dept, 25X), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
BRANDAUER3
ţ
V?
\ CjCV
I»ENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitation*
C. BRANDAUER A CO. LTtt, BIRMINGHAM.
Business, Rollery. Etc.
The Danger Ahead
The world as a whole is still
undersupplied with essential
goods, let alone luxuries —even
the United States, despite
periodic suggestions that over-
production is threatened in some
industries, is still undersupplied
with many lines of consumer
and capital goods. Australia is
being kept short of essential fuel
and raw materials by deliberate
trade-union action, often Com-
munist-inspired. Housing in
particular is scarce in this
country and elsewhere, and rail-
ways, highways, rolling-stock,
factories and farm-equipment
still call for a great deal of ex-
penditure to bring them up to
present-day requirements.
Yet there are fears in many
countries of a “recession” or
depression. These fears are
prompted, in the main, by the
concern that has arisen from a
study of the prolonged rise in
prices and costs that has taken
place since 1939. No doubt
about it: the climb in money
figures has been extremely steep.
Costs have followed raw-material
prices; prices of manufactured
goods have followed costs; and
labor has sought to gain for it-
self a post-war “new order” in
the shape of higher money wages
and shorter working time regard-
less of the effect on its own
standard of living or that of any
other class in the community.
Paper-money credit has been
created at a pace far in excess
of the rate of goods-production,
and that has helped inflation
also. The fear is now that some
raw-material prices—based on
supply and demand —will fall,
with a decline, perhaps, in the
price of some manufactured
goods, whilst the momentum
underneath rising wage and other
costs will still go on and make
production of many things un-
profitable, thus bringing a
closing-down of some industries,
a slackening in some forms of
employment, and disorganisation
and loss of confidence in in-
dustry generally. And all this
without any real condition of
overproduction—in fact, in Aus-
tralia, with a condition of
definite underproduction and
inadequate transport.
Loss of economic equilibrium
can occur even in times when no
overproduction is apparent.
Trade-union and Communist
policy does decidedly endanger
economic equilibrium in the
“We gotta absentee on the assembly-line."
Commonwealth. The persistent
rise in costs, the fall in output
per man-hour, must have a dis-
rupting effect on finance and in-
dustry. And, despite the un-
satisfied demand for goods,
services and transport in Aus-
tralia, if prices fall overseas it
will have an effect on the, income
of primary producers, upon the
national income and upon
Budget revenue, and increase the
vulnerability of all Australian
industry to the menace of rising
costs, so much a feature of our
economy at present.
It is true that we have a wide
margin—up to now—in the
prices of many of our exports,
wool and metals particularly, in
comparison with even inflated
costs. But taxation, high plant-
replacement costs, difficulty of
obtaining supplies and materials,
and the problem of getting labor
to do any constructional work
are placing many of our vital'
land industries in a vulnerable
and less efficient condition, while
any money saved by landmen
continues to lose its value
through the progressive inflation
in running-costs and re-equip-
ment expenses.
Analysis of the position will
show that our present economic
dangers arise out of inadequate
production per man-hour, rising
production costs, heavy taxes
and excessive use of manpower
for non-productive Government
purposes, and the creation of an
inordinate amount of paper
money in proportion to the
nation’s output of goods and ser-
vices.
If a depression comes in
Australia it is more likely to
take the shape of industries clos-
ing down to avoid the squeeze of
rising costs against fixed prices
than from any overproduction of
goods, or of capital assets, such
as homes. The prospect is one
of a slump amidst scarcity,
caused by inadequate production
per man-hour and the excessive
national cost, in money and
manpower, of socialism.
Insurance Nationalisation
After hanging like the sword
of Damocles over insurance cos.
in New Zealand for nearly two
years, nationalisation of workers’-
compensation risks will be
brought in at one stroke on All
Fools’ Day, Maoriland’s Stats
Fire Insurance office, the Gov-
ernment’s big bad wolf in this
financial grab, will swallow up
business developed over many
years by 40-odd insurance con-
cerns, all but a handful of them
with headquarters overseas,
mainly in Britain. State Fire is
recruiting 300 more staff, con-
juring up a new branch (the
“Government Accident Insurance
Office”), arid giving all employers
one month to send in returns of
wages paid in the year ending
March and estimates for next
year.
There’s only one motive be-
hind the move—greed. If the cos.
weren’t making a do of workers’-
compensation business the State
wouldn’t touch it, wouldn’t give
it a second look, would shy off it
as if it were motor underwriting,
which doesn’t make anyone fat
these days. But in workers’ risks
there’s profit, and now a
monopoly to boot.
Chairmen several times pub-
licly warned the Government to
keep its hands off before the
blow fell, and fought the issue
behind the scenes, but they were
as powerless as the directors and
shareholders of the Bank of New
Zealand when nationalisation
suddenly loomed up ahead of
them in 1945. Fred Hellaby,
chairman of N.Z. Insurance Co.,
last September declared confisca-
tion of workers’-compensation
business would be a severe knock
for M.L. insurance enterprise,
and added: “If we are forced
out of business by legislation in
our own country, wholly or in
part, very considerable and per-
haps insurmountable difficulties
will arise in the conduct from
N.Z. of our affairs overseas,”
Four-fifths of the co.’s opera-
tions were then outside N.Z.;
that proportion will be bigger
now. Kenneth B. Myers, chair-
man of South British Insurance,
said, further back: “Quite apart
from the broad question of ex-
pediency in introducing a
monopoly insurance scheme, it
must be seriously doubted
whether a department of business
which has been conducted for
close on half a century by 40-
odd insurance cos., each handling
hundreds of claims annually, can
be transferred overnight to the
control of any single concern,
Government or otherwise, to give
the same prompt and efficient
service.” Up to now workers
have always had prompt and
efficient settlements of claims.
Will they be as well served with
competition dead and their
claims bound in red-tape?,
Saunders, Ltd.
Estate-agents H. W. Horning
and Co. recently put a value of
£375,000 on Saunders’ comer
position in King- and Pitt-streets,
Sydney. It appears at £247,108
in the jewellery firm’s books.
Part of the Pitt-street frontage
has been occupied by tenants,
but Saunders will shortly extend
right through.
The new tax set-up has induced
Saunders like its opposite
number, Prouds, Ltd. —to seek
public-co. status ; no new issue is
being made, but 102,000 of the
275,000 £1 shares have been
placed privately with outsiders
at 30s. each. Their net asset
backing is 225. lOd. on book
figures, or 345. 7d. on the recent
valuation basis.
Seventy years ago Alfred
Saunders set up shop at Railway-
square, and these original
premises are still occupied under
lease. The present co. dates from
1928 ; its board includes E. R.
Mitchell (chairman), A. Basser
(managing), C. Mason, J. Hickey
and Dr. A. G. Basser. Allowing
for tax on a public-co. basis, net
profits for the last three years
averaged £60,083, or 21.8 p.c. on
present capital; this represents a
big advance on war-time earn-
ings, which averaged £31,769
before tax over a seven-year
period.


" I’ll need these tomorrow-,-
Miss Jenkins !"
-
"N
mm
m
m
mm
&
m
X?
X
;x
“N
y'-\
m
M
m
In other words, you want your secretary to
keep these particular papers within easy reach
for you ... yet in a safe place. Sure! . . . the
efficient Miss Jenkins understands perfectly.
Papers, publications, documents . . . anything
you need for quick reference, there is a place
for it in your Steelbilt Executive Cupboard.
Built of all steel, fire-resistant, this type of
"Steelbilt” Executive Cupboard does all the
duties of a light safe. Neat in design, attrac-
tively finished in dark green enamel it blends
perfectly with any modern office surroundings.
A telephone call to MX 3571 places a
Steelbilt expert at your service.
Steelbilt 'Security*
Cupboard
Height 3’6", Width 2'6"
Depth 15" or 18"
Sfeelbilt ’Executive"
Cupboard
Height b'6". Width 3'
Depth 15” or 18"
C^WUnlt
STORAGE CUPBOARDS
=. G^Wlinit
A Product of V J AWM-fJIXL LIMITED
(A Wormold Brothers Industry)
SYDNEY & MELBOURNE
Represented elstwhere in Australia and
New Zealand by Wormald Brothers Pty. Ltd .
FILING CABINETS • PLAN CABINETS • LOCKERS • SHELVING • LIBRARY SHELVING • WASTE PAPER BINS
Assets Exceed
£2,500,000
The A.C.A.
for Security
THE A.C.A
A.C.A. POLICIES
ARE
GOOD POLICIES
1 AUSTRALASIAN CATHOLIC
ASSURANCE COMPANY LIMITED
(INCORPORATED IN N.S.W.)
A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney
Call, Write or Ring. Telephone BX 2165
BRANCH OFFICES
IN ALL STATES
D. J. MOONEY
Managing Director
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
The amiable mildness of
January and February, when day
temperatures rarely fell below
50 degrees, was an unexpected
relief to London’s millions, who
have reasons enough of their
own to dread a severe winter.
This mildness has brought early
spring flowers forward, with
snowdrops, winter aconites and
a few tentative crocus-buds mak-
ing a promising appearance at
Kew Gardens. People in Tor-
quay have worked in shirt-
sleeves, strollers on the Sussex
coast have worn sunglasses, and
a long period of dry, sunny
weather has caused grass-fires on
the South Downs. But London
has enjoyed only a small share
of sunshine.
It is unfortunate that, notwith-
standing the keen and frequently-
expressed wishes of commercial
and financial firms to avoid con-
centration in one small, not
wholly satisfactory district, more
and more people seem to be com-
ing to London. The metropolis
continues to straggle over too
wide, and too vulnerable, an
area. Transport alone is a major
problem. Projects that demand
heavy expenditure of money and
materials have had to be shelved
(south-east London is still with-
out an underground railway, al-
though trial borings were made
some time ago).
Two experiments have been
announced, and each depends
upon the double-decker. London
Transport has built a new type
of medium-distance coach at
its Chiswick works. Intended
for the Green Line routes into
the Home Counties, it is air-
conditioned, with pneumatic
doors and tilted seats. British
Railways have reached the same
conclusion independently, but
their difficulties are naturally
more considerable. A model has
been made and an experimental
double-decker railway coach is
likely to be tried out on sub-
urban lines.
Prattle
A hearty laugh is as good a
tonic as any. The whole country
has rocked over the best joke of
the year. That the bonny baby
whose picture appeared at the
head of a political broadsheet
should prove to be not a repre-
sentative of the new generation
happy under Socialist nurture,
but the young Duke of Kent 12
years ago, set the laugh against
the overserious organisers of the
long - promised Labor - party
appeal. Mr. Morgan Phillips,
secretary of the party, appears
to have taken it very much to
heart; he has even expressed
annoyance that the Conservative
Central Office did not forewarn
him of their intention to make
the discovery known. He seems
to have forgotten that the
English—or most of them —still
have a sense of humor.
Wasn’t there just an element of
cheating in this propaganda? If
the Socialists believe that the
political inheritance of the
nation’s babies is the prime cause
of their health and happiness
they have a right to say so, even
if the children’s own mothers
may have other views. But is it
fair to ask an agency for a selec-
tion of its best photographs?
The exposure of this act is one
laugh. That the infant chosen
should happen to be politically
impartial from the cradle on-
wards is another, bigger, laugh.
Mr. Herbert Morrison’s eager
opportunism has hardly re-
deemed his colleagues’ blunder.
The publication of the picture,
he said, was a mistake; hut it
proved that years ago it was easy
to tell the difference between a
royal baby and a baby of the
people, whereas nowadays
“through the good work of the
Labor municipalities and the
Labor Government all God’s
children look much the same.”
All God’s children? Or is it
merely wishful thinking that
young Britons will grow up uni-
formly according to pattern?
Domestic Issues
The changes in clothes ration-
ing which Mr. Harold Wilson,
president of the Board of Trade,
announced recently have done
little to ease the clothing prob-
lems of British families. Broadly
speaking, woollen goods (includ-
ing suits, overcoats, costumes and
woven wool dresses) have come
off the ration, while rayon, silk
and cotton goods are retained.
Since a surplus of coupons is
now more general than an
equivalent surplus of money,
there has been no wild rush to
buy new outfits. Englishmen
were never more tailor-shy than
at present. A bespoke suit which
cost £7 7s. *in 1938 now calls
for, with purchase-tax, £25 or
more. But the high price is not
the only reason. Because of long
absences away from home most
ex-servicemen have no regular
tailor; and, as the trade is less
concerned about competition
and goodwill than it was before
the war, the prospective customer
tends to feel that his gamble may
prove to be an expensive one.
He is reluctant to go cap in
hand to a tailor whom he doesn’t
know.
The battle between teachers
and parents over sex education
of schoolchildren grows in in-
tensity. Some parents —generally
not of the educated classes —are
demonstrably angry and un-
yielding, while the teachers are
united with the quiet resolution
of earnest reformers. The
teachers affirm that they are in-
terested less in the means than in
the end: whether they, with a
carefully-planned syllabus, or the
parents themselves tackle the
problem is not material. They
are as insistent that the children’s
natural questions shall be an-
swered as they are to defeat the
leer and the furtive half-know-
ledge. The teachers, it seems, are
winning.
The Women’s Liberal Federa-
tion is the latest political organi-
sation to come forward with a
charter —for housewives. It seeks
to establish paramountly that
women shall have equal citizen-
ship with men without claiming
any ‘/privileged position for
them” ; and it directs attention
to the hardships and difficulties
of women in post-war Britain.
A number of reasonable, some-
times obvious, reforms are out-
lined ; one only smacks of
feminism: the charter recom-
mends the setting-up of domestic
courts where, for example, a
wife may appeal for an increase
in her housekeeping allowance.
One wonders whether “The
Great Partnership” (i.e., of
husband and wife), as the charter
is called, could withstand such
an extremity.
Brickbats in Baker-street
To the wider world Baker-
street is a great deal more than
an important thoroughfare north
of Oxford-street. It suggests
eternal fog, spluttering gas-lamps,
hansom-cabs, harassed baronets
—and the consulting-rooms of
Sherlock Holmes. A new and
authoritative biography of Sir
Arthur Conan Doyle, by John
Dickson Carr, has caused a stir
that has extended far beyond
mere literary circles. Critics
have stressed the revelation that
Conan Doyle was embarrassed
about his famous creation and
fancied himself a second Scott.
They have also fallen back into
that old game of baiting Holmes’
Boswell. Poor Dr. Watson! He
is dull, stupid, inane—in a word,
the perfect stooge.
Surely he is worthy of a little
recognition for the part he has
played in the entertainment of
millions! Hamlet’s Horatio and
Pip’s Herbert Pocket escape a
similar scorn ; and it is the con-
stancy, not the wisecracks, of
that faithful companion, Sam
Weller, that makes him so en-
dearing.
Does the engrossed reader ever
notice Dr. Watson’s blindness to
clues? He certainly doesn’t
forget that the steadfast devotee
was always on the spot, un-
ruffled in dangerous situations,
with a keen memory and a vivid
narrative style.


It is the years of Maturing
that make them JUariag
ESTABLISHED 1847
Gtlando
WINES—.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Commander Allan Noble, here with
Anthony Eden, and Conservative member
for Chelsea, is' no office sailor. Joining
the service in 1926, he was Lord Lin-
lithgow’s A.D.C. in India during the
“gathering-storm” years of 1936-38, and
after it broke commanded four British
destroyers in succession Newport,
Fernie, Dainty and Quentin. The last-
named was a classmate of our Quiberon,
and the relationship was cemented when
the Australian boat pulled Quentin’s crew
out after an aerial torpedo had blown
her open off Tunis. Noble has other con-
nections here. He captained Dainty—she
got two Itie subs in the Mediterranean in
the one day—in the flotilla led by Captain
Hec Waller of the Stuart, and many a
time played bowls in Malta with Rodney
Rhoades, then driving Vendetta. Noble
came out with D.S.O. and D.S.C., both
won afloat. Retiring in 1945, the next
year saw him watching the Bikini bomb-
blast for the U.K. Government. Blue
water flows in the family—his father is
Admiral Sir Percy Noble, who com-
manded battleship Barham in the Grand
Fleet in World War I, and held in the
next the crucially important command of
Western Approaches when U-boat packs
were gnawing at Britain’s lifeline.
A recent press report of war-time con-
tact with Australians influencing Allied
soldiers’ migration here may have some
bearing on one of South Australia’s
latest migrants. He is Major-General
George Symes, who, as G.O.C. British
Seventieth Division, relieved the Tobruk
Rats. With his wife, a native of S.A.,
ho will settle at Mt. Lofty,
A grocer’s son who flooded England
with a yellow soap called “Sunlight”
died a lord. Soon the product
was shining round the world, from the
eminence of a mercantile empire which,
under the name Unilever, with assets
near the £ 150-million mark, sells scores
of domestic lines, from baby-food and
salad-oil to candles, copra and cattle-cake.
In Australia to inspect his firm’s opera-
tions is the man who owns the largest
single block of Unilever stock, Viscount
Leverhulme, son of the founder. Now
60, and governor of the board, the
Viscount is interested in education, was
president of the London Chamber of
Commerce and of the Institute of
Chemical Engineers, and runs at Port
Sunlight, in England, a model township
where the workers are housed in Tudor
cottages, are paid guaranteed wages, have
their children educated and their doctors’
bills paid and are buried —all by Unilever.
At the recent convention of the New
England new-State movement a link with
early Australian politics was created by
election to the council executive of Aider-
man O. Barton. A doctor practising in
Scone, the New-Stater is a son of the
Commonwealth’s first Prime Minister.
Henry Simpson Newland, calling it a
day after guiding the B.M.A. in Aus-
tralia for 20 years, stands high among
Australian medicos. A F.R.C.S. of Eng-
land and Edinburgh, and a Fellow of
the corresponding American institution,
he was born in Kensington (S.A.)
75 years ago, and, after graduating from
Adelaide Uni., studied in London, Paris,
Prague, Vienna and U.S.A. As a legacy
of his A.A.M.C. service in France and
at Gallipoli, and command of the First
Australian casualty clearing station in the
final year of that war, he holds rank of
lieutenant-colonel and D.S.O. Knighted
in 1928, he assumed the B.M.A.’s Federal
presidency that year and was vice-presi-
dent of its centenary meeting in London
in 1932,
Added together, the ages of the 30
Cobb and Co. drivers at the recent annual
luncheon in Melbourne came to the im-
impressive total of 2400 years. Doyen
of the veterans who helped to steer
the 6000 horses which pulled out daily
for the roads of Vic, and N.S.W. was
J. F. Laity, of Black Rock, who is 88.
One of the guests was Mrs. G. H. Earp,
of Glenrowan, in the Kelly country. Her
grandfather, John Murray Peck, was one
of the four original partners in 1854.
Two War II Diggers are the Queens-
land People’s party’s choice to shake
Federal “Labor” from the Brisbane and
Lilley seats this year. James Long, con-
testing Brisbane, was a leading tele-
graphist in cruiser Perth in the British
force that led the Italian ships on to
Warspite’s guns off Matapan; hie used
Waterhen’s aerials on the Tobruk ferry-
run, and finished the war in a S.-w. Pacific
corvette, after covering the Ninth Division
landing at Scarlet Beach, near Finsch.
Bruce Wight, for Lilley, late of the 2/ 17th
Battalion in Tobruk, was one of the
reasons for Waterhen’s grocery deliveries,
and is the Digger who asked of Comrade
Burns at a public debate the question
whpse answer landed that gentleman in
jail for sedition.
In the other camp, at the other end in
Tassie, Premier Cosgrove’s son Henry will
try for Denison (Dr. Gaha did not re-
nominate) and one-time Repatriation
Minister Frost’s son will have a shot at
Franklin. Jhe younger Cosgrove was
overseas with the A.I.F. Frost, who was
boarded by the Japs for 3? years, was
the Speck’s heavyweight champion in
1931 and next year runner-up for the
Australian title in his class. Now he
orchards.
Gloom was cast over “Oklahoma’s”
opening at His Majesty’s, Melbourne, by
the death of Don Nicol, after a long
struggle with tuberculosis. His beehive
energy had brightened “Lilac Time,”
“Nice Goings On,” “Balalaika” and many
other pieces in that theatre. Popular with
all, from callboy to prompter, whom
he frequently tied into knots with his im-
promptus, he was a natural comedian—
the sort who walks on-stage, looks at
you, and gets a laugh. Having a double
talent —he started as a caricaturist on the
“Circle,” a Melbourne sporting paper—he
could draw colleagues as well as laughter,
and anywhere he sojourned for long he
left plastered with pictorial records of
those connected with it. An Eltham hotel
had an art gallery of this description for
which Nicol’s recuperating stay there was
responsible. His first theatrical job was
with a touring N.Q. company which had
engaged him to paint posters,
Coventry’s impression of Winston
Dugan was recorded when the major-
general was leaving the S. Australian
Governorship for Victoria’s, having
accepted the S.A. office after retiring
from military, service, which included a
spell against Kruger, command of a
Royal Irish regiment in 1914-18, when he
GOVERNOR.
rose to brig.-general, and territorial com-
mands in England in the subsequent
peace. After five years governing S.A.
he crossed the border for nine. He found
Victoria congenial, showed a lot of
political tact and proved a sound adviser,
and takes with him a Lordship, gathered
in the New Year’s honors, and the well-
wishes of all Victorians.
Arthur Warner, Victorian Minister for
Housing, who “guessed” in a Melbourne
daily recently that the State’s shortage
in that commodity should be considerably
eased within two years, can point to some
improvement in the housing situation dur-
ing his term of office. This isn't
his first big job. He was Con-
troller of Finance to the Ministry
of Munitions during the last war, is
managing-director of Electronic Indus-
tries, which he built up, and is concerned
with a dozen or so other radio shows of
all sorts. He is 49, was born in England,
served with the R.N. Fleet Air Arm in
World. War I as a flight-lieutenant, and
then came to Australia. An Apple Island
farmer for two years, he crossed Bass
Strait with an accountant’s diploma in
1922 and commenced importing and re-
tailing radio. When the war broke out
he had a staff of 1100 to switch over to
making secret radio equipment.
“Fitfcwilliam’s Ghost” sums up a
character;
The youthful and impish-looking gentleman
here presented by Dubois is William Charles
Wentworth. His family has bred the im-
mortal Strafford and the less-so Rockingham,
and in Australia his great-grandfather, William
Charles, statesman, promoter of free speech,
father of the Australian Constitution, the first
Australian to win glory as an explorer, the
first to hold a high civil office in N.S.W., and
the founder of Australia’s first university.
Born in Australia in 1907, the modern version
has inherited all the energy and capacity for
combat of that ancestor. Schooled at Armidale,
he won the Cooper scholarship for Classics to
Sydney Uni., but was sent to William of
Wykeham’s New College in Oxford —also the
college of John Galsworthy. There he used the
energy left over from taking an unusual double-
honors degree in classics and politics to win an
athletic blue, and represented Oxford and Cam-
bridge against the combined universities of
America. Afterwards he had business experience
with Lever’s, was for three years financial adviser
POLITICAL CRUSADER.
to the N.S.W. Government, and now manages
considerable business interests, which do not
interfere with his main work as a political
crusader in matters in which he has a discon-
certing habit of being right. He has been for
years a consistent prophet of the present situa-
tion of the world vis-a-vis Russia and Com-
munism. These days he is a member of the
N.S.W. Liberal-party Executive and Policy
Committee, pursues his studies of: the atom-
bomb, writes excellent pamphlets on Socialism,
one of which circulated recently to near the
half-million mark, reads the lessons in church
and can be seen often in the week-end in a
dilapidated jeep surrounded by a squirming
mass of kids, of whom five are his own, making
for a beach or the bush.
The latest edition of Dehrett’s Peerage
will contain the name and titles of Sir
Frederick Baden-Powell, grocer, of Mel-
bourne. The honored one still serves tea
and sugar from his Northcote counter,
unperturbed at being addressed by cus-
tomers as “Sir Frederick.” The motto of
his 18th-century Scottish baronetcy is
“Spare Nought.”
R. Jacob, a young veterinary-science
student from M.L., will do spare-time
study on the pig-bladder for Sydney* Uni.
Rugby team this season. Maoriland Uni.
half-back for the past three seasons, he
also played for the Maoris in 1946 and
again last year on the team’s tour of
Fiji. The game is in the blood. Old-
timers will remember his father, Harry
Jacob, who toured Australia before
World War One, had a kick at the
Kaiser and returned here with the un-
beaten All Black side of 1920, paying a
final visit as captain of the 1922 Maori
team.
After a year’s absence from Sydney,
where he was senior lecturer in classics at
the University, Professor T. R. Manton
landed in Dunedin to take over the
classics chair at Otago Uni. He was in
England on leave editing one of Plu-
tarch’s minor works when he was offered
the Maoriland post.
In this Elmslie study of “Whacker”
Paine, Bosun of the Yard at Garden
Island, Sydney, the cap is shown in the
hard-down position where 30 years of
facing ocean winds have fixed it. The
bosun, who is one of the finest practical
seamen in the R.A.N., first tasted salt in
training-ship Impregnable, in Devonport,
in 1918. Transfer to the R.A.N. put
him in old cruisers Adelaide and Mel-
bourne and the then-new Australia and
BOSUN.
Canberra, in which latter craft he saw
War Two’s opening phases. With the
swing of the Fleet-hammer to the Pacific
the R.A.N. formed a Naval Beach Com-
mando Unit, in which Paine’s job was to
go in early with the Beachmaster, mark
both ends of a strip on which assault
craft were to beach and, with posi-
tions consolidated, salvage ships which
bombs or overzealous commanding
officers had put inland. At Tarakan and
Balikpapan this called for ingenious im-
provisation ; once the bosun rove a wire
from a grounded ship out through a
block on a tree standing in deep water,
hitched a bulldozer on the wire’s inshore
end and hauled his craft stern-first into
her rightful element —probably the first
time a bulldozer ever launched a ship.
Paine has forgotten more than most
sailors know about knots and splices,
and one of his lesser abilities is to put
a complete eye-splice in a 4yin. steel-
wire rope in 45 minutes.
Many ambitious young architects sooner
or later gravitate to Sweden; that’s
the landfall next May for Roderick Mac-
donald, a War II Digger of New Guinea
vintage, owning to an honors degree of
Bachelor of Architecture and the just-
awarded Sir Patrick Abercrombie Prize
for town-planning. He collected it for
a thesis on replanning slum areas in
North Melbourne.
Into the Silence:
At 90, in Melbourne, William Stone, chief
electrical engineer of the Victorian Railways
when the suburban system was electrified. It is
claimed he introduced the steam turbine to
Australia and was the first to make X-ray tubes
experimentally.
In Sydney, at 48, while down from his
Augathella (Q.) property, Falkiner Hewson, the
“flying grazier.” Since 1934 he had used planes
to inspect his stock in outlying areas.
In Melbourne, at 82, William Ryan, one-time
mails supervisor in the P.M.G.’s Department.
During War I he was in charge of dispatching
that important item of supply the A.l.F.’s
mail.
In Brisbane, at 57, George Simpson, manager
of Mactaggart’s stock department. He was one
of the State’s best-known blood-stock salesmen.
On liner Orcades, en route to England, L. W.
(“Joe”) Hudson, prominent Sydney accountant
(Smith, Johnson and Co.), company-director
and golfer.
In Sydney, Eng.-Cdr. R. T. Farnsworth, who
as engineer-officer of destroyer Vendetta was
responsible for her share of the Scrap-Iron
Flotilla’s hard steaming. In England he stood
by Quickmatch and steamed her for a year
before returning to do experimental work on
handed-over German destroyers. His last post
was assistant to the engineer-manager on Garden
Island.
At •Christchurch (M.L.). E. F, Stead, electrical
engineer and ornithologist, author of Life
History of N.Z. Birds and only N.Z. member of
the British Ornithological Union. His many
gifts to Canterbury Museum include an 87ft.
whale which he had brought from the West
Coast, where it was captured in 1908.
In Sydney, at 80, Brig.-Gen. Austin Anderson,
C.M.G., a Royal Artilleryman who was private
secretary to Governors de Chair and Game,
Comptroller to Lord Cowrie and hon. A.D.C.
to the Duke of Gloucester. He wrote several
military works; the review of his wife’s Indian
Tales was in print on the Red Page the day
he died.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne *
Members of the executive committee
and of the various auxiliaries associated
with the Ministering Children’s League
had their annual picnic at Queenscliff,
when they visited the Cottage by the Sea
and met some of the little folk at present
holidaying there. Here all signs associ-
ated with an institution have been care-
fully avoided. Windows are wide open
to the sun and sea breezes and, wherever
it was possible, there are gay little murals.
The Cottage has been painted with a
light, washable paint, and the small dormi-
tories have the most attractive bed-
spreads, all calculated to instil a love of
beauty and cleanliness in the small occu-
pants. The kitchen is large and modern.
Everywhere there is evidence of the love
and care that president of the League
Mrs. Walter Carnegie and her committee
have taken to make the children on holi-
day happy and contented. Before going
to the Cottage, Mrs. Walter Carnegie
entertained members of the executive, the
pxess, and the Mayor and Mayoress of
Queenscliff at luncheon at the Esplanade
Hotel. Among the guests were
Mesdames Hewison, Robert Lawrence,
K. Shields, A. A. Taylor and E. R.
Stewart and Marion McPherson.
At the reception she gave so that
Anthony Eden could meet the wives of
councillors the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S.
Disney, Wore a garnet-red wool jacket
suit with- the tie-neck of the jacket edged
with dyed-ermine tails. Her matching
felt hat was an off-the-face model. Her
daughter-in-law, Mrs. Alec Hay, wore a
hyacinth-blue jacket suit and halo hat.
The tailored suit of the Lord Mayor’s
sister, Mrs. C. Davidson, was steel-blue,
her hat in the same tonings. Lady Boyce,
whose husband is senior Sheriff of
London, wore a Charles Creed tailored
suit of finest hand-woven dogtooth tweed
in slate grey; her grey felt hat was
feather-trimmed.
The Dixon lady, in black ensemble and
small pink-and-black hat, opened artist
Esther Patterson’s exhibition with a brief
but pithy speech extolling the charm and
delicacy of the exhibits. Esther, who in
private life is Mrs. Hermon Gill, wore a
black suit and flower-trimmed black hat.
Her sister Betty, whose baby pictures are
so delightful, added a hip-length, mid-
night-blue, coat to her black frock. Art-
lovers present included Mrs. Olive Thring,
in a large grey hat, draped with navy
veiling to match her frock; Mrs, Ford
Paterson, wearing marine-blue with a
matching felt hat; Mrs. Ted Doyle, a
flower-trimmed hat contrasting her sage-
green suit; and Mrs. Glen Craigie, an
emerald-green coat covering her floral
frock.
Christ Church, South Yarra, was the
venue for the marriage of Rosemary
Elizabeth, only daughter of Mrs. T. M.
Chesterman, of South Yarra, and Mr.
F. R. Chesterman, Orford, Tasmania, to
Patrick Victor Charles, only son of Col.
R S. Ryan, of Berwick, and the late Lady
Rosemary Gresham. The bride’s classical
gown of peach-tinted slipper satin had a
heart-shaped neckline encrusted with
diamente and crystal beads. Her cream
tulle veil fell softly from a diamond tiara
lent by her aunt. Miss Dorothy Foster, of
Tasmania. The bouquet was of Ophelia
roses and tree-lily-of-the-valley. Brides-
maids Jane Casey, Jessica Melrose, Eliza-
beth Ashbolt, Elizabeth Stocks and Sally
Foster wore gowns of cream lace over
pink slips; their bouquets were of
Ophelia and Cecile Brunner roses. The
’groom, who is a nephew of Mrs. R. G.
Casey, had as best man Bill Sewell;
Robert Dalziel and Robert Chirmside
were groomsmen. Reception was at
Menzies’.
A fashion show and a buffet dinner-
party at their salon, which has been re-
decorated, formed the centenary cele-
brations of Hicks, Atkinson’s in Collins-
street. Descendants of the founders, Mrs.
M. Morton, formerly Mabel Hicks, and
her cousin, Gerald Hicks, both directors
of the firm, received the guests. Mrs.
Morton’s hat of pastel-pink feathers was
worn with a black crepe ensemble.
Madame Cannot, who presides over the
showroom, was in tailored black crepe.
Guests included Elsie Harvey, a pale-blue
upswept hat trimmed with black ospreys
making vivid contrast to her black frock ;
Sylvia Taggert, in navy with white acces-
sories ; Mrs. M. Cash, in a royal-blue
ensemble; and Elsie Manson, her black
crepe frock having a black chiffon yoke.
The featured skirts were mostly
long and pencil-slim, almost the hobble-
skirts of a past era. Jackets were swing-
back and high-necked, cut in front to
waist-level and falling a little longer over
the hips to swing at the back, almost to
knee-length. Tartans and plaids were
prominent for morning and casual wear.
Here skirts were shorter. One of the
smartest suits in this group was a box-
pleated tartan skirt allied to a plain navy,
slim-fitting jacket with lapels and pockets
edged with the tartan. Cocktail en-
sembles were in faille, grosgrain, taffeta
and broche. Skirts were knife- or sunray-
pleated, draped or gored at the back and
slimly cut in the front. Hemlines dipped
at the back in a swallowtail effect, jackets
being high at the neck. Reminiscent of
the early 1920’s was Norman Hartnell’s
evening frock in lime-green, the skirt
pleated at the back to match the knife-
pleated bodice.
Simple but smart was a black velvet
skirt allied to an off-the-shoulder blouse
of rows and rows of narrow black lace;
the blouse showing the new bracelet
sleeve. Two thousand pearls were sewn
into the design on a white evening
coat of threequarter length which had
the high Chinese neckline and full swing-
back. This was worn over a gown of
black satin, the skirt full and sweeping,
with a back peplum and small pearls em-
broidered on the front of the bodice. One
fulj-length black velvet evening coat had
pearl embroidery on cuffs to match the
pearls trimming the upstanding Medici
collar. This coat was worn over a peony-
pink taffeta gown which had a wide, flow-
ing skirt and straps and belt of rhine-
stones.
Tall, attractive Davie Gladstone, who
is the Aunt Eller of “Oklahoma” she
played the role for over three years in
America, and still loves it—was bom in
Illinois and studied voice and languages
in Italy and music at the Bush Con-
servatorium of Music in Chicago. For
12 months she studied Shakspeare at the
University of California, and also in
London. One of her ambitions is to play
Shakspearean roles. Two years as an
evangelistic preacher working for 35
churches in Illinois and then modelling
experience in New York preluded her
musical-comedy career, “Rose Marie*’
and “The Desert Song” being two
musicals in which she played.
At the first of the V.A.T.C. autumn
meetings Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of
the club chairman, had as guests for
luncheon English visitor Mrs. I. Govett,
the Boyce lady and Mesdamqs R. G.
Menzies, Ken McLean, Harold Holt, L.
Darling, J. Matthew Smith, Reggie Power,
E. Kennon and R. R. Thomas. Among
smart racegoers was Mrs. Claude
Kingston, in a light-brown draped frock
worn with deeper brown accessories. Mrs.
Lionel Newton’s jacket-suit was beige;
her small matching hat carried a large
toning ostrich feather. Mrs. Bon Guest’s
large beige straw hat was trimmed with
brown ribbon. Mrs. Bertie Hotchkiss had
a three-tiered peplum of grosgrain finish-
ing the jacket of her black suit. Mrs.
Dean Schooler, who leaves soon for her
home in America, wore a black suit which
had unusual buttons of onyx and crystal
on the jacket.
The Le Louvre Salon, which is presided
over by Lillian Wightman, was the
rendezvous for guests at the late-after-
noon party given by French milliner
Henriette Le Mott, who came over from
Sydney with her autumn and winter col-
lection of hats. Lillian’s high-necked
slim-skirted frock was of black broche.
Janny, as the vivacious Frenchwoman is
popularly known, was smart in a black
jacket-suit. Mrs. Ronnie Nott was out-
standing in a black grosgrain frock and
large white rose-trimmed straw hat.
Wanda Shilliday’s little white beret was
covered with white sequins and trimmed
with pink hyacinths and violets ; her frock
was of black moire taffeta. With Mrs.
W. Horsfall was her daughter, Gloria
Ladd,' in tailored black coat and small
matching hat. Barbara Murcay Smith
topped her lime-green frock with a frothy
floral creation. Mrs. Henry Rosenthal’s
honey-toned straw hat was laden with
matching ostrich feathers. Mrs. L. Curtis
had blue beads trimming the tulle top of
her black crepe frock.
From Sydney
Twelve months ago Legacy launched
its adoption plan, and appealed for
£20,000. At the luncheon last week it,
was announced that £25,300 had been
obtained. As the years go on more and
more money is needed to carry on this
work of love. This year £25,000 is the
objective. President John Jamieson and
chairman of appeals committee Basil Orr
put forward a marvellous appeal for more
funds, an appeal that every man and
woman worthy of being called an Aus-
tralian would find it hard not to respond
to. But it was Sadie Parker, the director
of appeals, who brought the everyday
human touch into her words. She took
her listeners right down into Legacy
rooms, showed them the small children
being looked after spiritually and
physically, and told touching tales of tbs
hope new-born in the hearts of widows
and mothers through the kindness, sym-
pathy and practical help given by legatees
in any and every emergency. Remember,
to join in with the adoption plan, all
you have to do is to guarantee £25 a,
year, or as many £2ss as you can afford
to give, or gather it in through friends
or groups of fellow-workers in shop,
office or factory.
The North Shore line, flowers and all,
was well represented at the wedding of
May Toose and Dr. John McGlynn, at
St. Andrew’s, Roseville, and Killara Golf
Club on Thursday evening. A large
beach umbrella protected the bride, her
father (Acting-Justice S. V. Toose), and
her ’maids—Mrs. Jim Oswin, Mrs. Clive
Taylor and Betty Bell—from pouring ram
as they stepped from their cars to the
church. Canon Tugwell officiated, and
Norman Rea was best man. Paul Toose
and Keith Watson were groomsmen.
Mr. Justice Edwards, who has lived next-
door to the bride most of her life, pro-
posed the principal toast.
The pretty fair-haired girl in this
Norton Trevaire picture is Mrs. Raymond
Corrigan, who, before her marriage
yesterday, was Betty Gibson, of Kirribilli.
The wedding took place at St. Mary’s,
Rydge-street, and here Father Roset, S.J.,
Rector of St. Aloysius, blessed the vows.
Betty is the only daughter of Mrs. James
Gibson. Her father was Inspector
of Modern Languages for the Educa-
tion Department. The bridegroom, Dr.
Raymond Corrigan, is the eldest son of
Mr. John Corrigan and the late Mrs.
Corrigan, of Rose Bay. This was an
all-white wedding, even to the flowers—
white daisies held the bride’s tulle veil
in place. Her floor-length frock of white
Swiss organdie was very bouffant as to
skirt; the fitting bodice with its softly-
folded fichu effect was like something
seen in old miniatures. Clare McMahon
and Margaret McConochie, of Nyngan,
’maided, and Keith Shaw-Smith and
’groom’s brother Leo gave male support.
Later there was a reception at Windsor
Gardens, Chatswood, where Mrs. Gibson,
wearing a soft-grey frock of fine wool,
which had its accompanying stole banded
in fur, welcomed 100 guests.
Without any fuss or bother Sir Reginald
Coupland, Beit Professor of British
Empire History at Oxford, arrived in
Sydney last week. Of course his first
port of .call was History House, where he
arrived one morning just in time for a
“cuppa,” and has popped in once or
twice since. At the party given in his
honor by the Royal Historical Society the
president, George Mackaness, and Mrs.
Mackaness received the guests. Then
there was tea in the lecture-room, and
later Dr. Coupland spoke, in an unassum-
ing way, not so much of his work but
of his endeavors to get to Australia.
For 12 years now he has been trying
to visit us, but there has always been
somewhere else he had to go—once it
was to India and Burma.
Dr. Coupland is writing the history of
the Empire, and he says no one, no
matter how much he has read about a
country, its people and their ways, can
write about them until he has seen that
country and met its people. For instance,
he says, if he hadn’t come to Australia
he couldn’t possibly write about Sydney
Harbor and Botany Bay, and the warm
friendliness and hospitality of Australians,
Dr. Coupland has already written 20
books. Dr. Mackaness is the proud pos-
sessor of his latest, Zulu Battle Piece;
another member boasts that he has a
copy of the author’s Wilberforce. Many
members of country historical societies
were unable to come to the party
because of the rain, so the gather-
ing was not so large, but its very small-
ness made for intimacy. Father Mc-
Nally, the Rev. Mr. McGowan and his
wife and Rabbi Dr. Porush braved the
deluge. C. H. Bertie came; so did mem-
ber for King Dan Clyne, Dr. Currie,
the Chester-Smith couple, Col. Spain and
Aubrey Halloran, Walter H. Williams,
Miss R. Suttor. Hon. secretary Alfred
Stephens and general secretary C. Price
Conigrave helped to make the party a
success.
A wedding of country and inter-State
interest was that of Gay (Gabrielle King)
Bernays to Robert Bradshaw. This took
place at St. Michael’s, Vaucluse, on the
wettest day of last week. But though
the day was gloomy, the church was
bright with masses of pink and green
lilies, mauve gladiolias and delphiniums.
Gay is the only daughter of the G. A. C.
Bernayses ; the bridegroom is the only son
of the A. V. Bradshaws, of Dover Heights.
The bride’s frock of ivory chiffon was
cut on classical lines, and her flowing
tulle veil fell from a coronet of gardenias.
Her bouquet was of the same fragrant
blossoms. Betty Laing and Nola Rose
(Kambala school-friends of the bride)
’maided, their blue and pink flowers
bringing a touch of color to their white
organdie frocks and hats. Michael Glee-
son-White and Peter Hardaker attended
the ’groom. The skirt of Mrs. Bernays’s
frock was black, the bodice rose-pink
embroidered with silver sequins. With
this she wore a small pink hat swathed in
ostrich-feathers. Mrs. Bradshaw wore
aqua-blue; her hat in the same shade
was decorated with pink roses. Toasts at
the Pickwick Club. The bridegroom’s
gift to his bride was a diamond and
sapphire eternity ring, and to the brides-
maids pearl and coral bracelets.
Deepest sympathy is felt for Mrs. A.
T. Anderson, widow of General Ander-
son, who was cremated last week after a
service conducted by Archbishop Mowll
at St. James’s Church, Turramurra. The
General’s unfailing kindness of disposi-
tion and great courtesy had made untold
friends for him wherever he went. Mrs.
Anderson and her daughter, Mrs. Allan
Foott, have already received many cables
of condolence,, among them messages
from the Duke and Duchess of Gloucester
and Lord and Lady Gowrie.
Whatever formality there was at the
civic reception given to Lord Rowallan
by Lord Mayor O’Dea, there wasn’t any
at the party at which the Empire Chief
Scout met members of Girl Guides. This
was at the Pickwick Club, and the happy
idea of arranging the meeting was
thought up by the Boy Scouts Associa-
tion. The Chief is a Cameron and wore
the kilt of the clan’s tartan. He has a
sense of humor and the knack of making
a party go with a bang. This was seen
by the smiles and laughter that greeted
his stories of Girl Guides of other coun-
tries. However, even a party at which
the Chief Scout is the guest must come
to an end. Chief Girl Guide Commis-
sioner Lady Julius and the Chief Boy
Scout Commissioner Major E. A. Lloyd
did the honors.
Among those who enjoyed the Ralf-
Matthews recitals last week was Mrs. T.
H. Kelly. Eileen Ralf and her husband,
Thomas Matthews, brought Mrs. Kelly
some direct news of her daughter and
son-in-law the Volterras, as the two
artists had stayed with them in Florence
on their way to Australia. At all her
recitals Eileen wears black. Of thick
silk was the frock worn on Tuesday, but
on Friday she wore velvet. This grace-
ful frock was caught up at the back, a
bustle effect being achieved by a large
taffeta bow, over which there was a
shimmer of silver sequinned net. The
pair left Sydney on Saturday, but are
returning to give three more concerts.
They will be back here in time to play at
the first of the 1949 Luncheon Music
Club recitals, on March 21.
Everybody remembers Sydney concert-
and opera-singer Molly de Gunst.
Recently she wrote from London
to Florence Taylor saying that the
Northumberland Board of Education
had arranged to give its school-
teachers a free course of singing,
dancing and drama in order to give them
an opportunity of expressing themselves,
and so bring art into the general educa-
tion. The thrill for Molly is that she has
been engaged for the singing lectures.


Legal Notice.
PURSUANT to an ordet of the Supreme
Court made in the matter 1947 No. 941
in which THE PERPETUAL EX-
ECUTORS AND TRUSTEES ASSOCIA-
TION OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED is
Plaintiff and STELLA MARIE STUBBS
is Defendant inquiry is being made as
to whether DAVID (or DAVID JAMES)
SUTHERLAND bom about 1871 the son
of James Sutherland late of 17 Rathdown
Street Carlton (who died in 1901 and is
believed to have at one time resided in
New Zealand) is alive or dead and the
said David Sutherland or any person with
knowledge of him is requested to com-
municate with the Master Supreme Court
Melbourne Inquiry has also been directed
as to whether any child of the said
David Sutherland is or was entitled to
share in the estate of the said James
Sutherland Any person claiming to be
such a child and the personal representa-
tive or next-of-kin of any such child who
is dead are required by their Solicitors
or in person on or before the Third day
of May 1949 to come in and prove their
claim at the Office of the Master as above
or in default thereof they will be perem-
torily excluded from the benefit of the
said order. The 10th day of May,
1949, at Eleven o’clock in the forenoon
at the said office is appointed for adjudi-
cating upon the,claims. DATED the 14th
day of February, 1949.
ERIC S. VANCE.
PURVES & PURVES, 448 Collins Street,
Melbourne, Solicitors for the Association.
Missing Friend.
TO ARTHUR CLARENCE O’BRIEN for-
merly of 234 Bell Street Coburg in the
State of Victoria and Darwin in the
Northern Territory Laborer but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife GRACE JOSEPHINE O’BRIEN
of 234 Bell Street Coburg aforesaid Mar-
ried Woman has instituted proceedings
against you for divorce on the ground of
desertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office Law
Courts William Street Melbourne in the
State of Victoria on or before the 11th
day of April 1949 the said suit will pro-
ceed in your absence and a decree for
dissolution of marriage may be granted
and you may be ordered to pay costs If
you intend to defend this suit you must
also file an answer in the said office on
or before the 21st day of April 1949.
CLEARY ROSS & DOHERTY, of 40
Queen .Street, Melbourne, in the said State,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WALLIS CECIL ROYAL ELLIS late
of 8 Brittania Avenue Merrylands in the
State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that DAISY ELLIS has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4488 of 1948
against you on the ground of your de-
sertion for three years and upwards
without just cause or excuse If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney on or before
the ninth day of May 1949 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS. F. B. KENNY & SON &
BAILLIE, Solicitors, Rural Bank
Chambers, William Street, Bathurst.—
(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in
Divorce.
Public Notice.
SALVATORE GIGLIO, of American
donality, born at Syracuse, U.S.A., and
ident 25 years in Australia, now re-
ing at 69 Briellat Street, Annandale,
end to apply for naturalisation under
Nationality and Citizenship Act 1948.
THE SERCIE MAN
"Our Allies" in Ferment
“Ek Dum”: Most of Dr.
Evatt’s allies in Asia are cele-
brating his return to Europe
by indulging in internal disorder.
The Commonwealth Govern-
ment was all for freedom for
India from British rule; and,
ever since, the Indians have been
involved somewhere in murder
of each other or in military sup-
pression of somebody or some-
thing. First there were the
wholesale racial murders along
the Pakistan-India border, in
which more people were killed
than had been killed by thfc Brit-
ish in India in the whole of a
century, the war of the Mutiny
included. Then there was the
clandestine war in Pakistan, the
military invasion by India of
Hyderabad and a few smaller
operations.
At present, as Dr. Evatt passes
through, India’s largest city, Cal-
cutta, Which was founded by the
British and built up by them to
become partly a mass of horrible
slums (Indian-owned and -orga-
nised) and municipally one of
the worst-managed cities in the
• world (by Indians) is this week
the venue of operations by Com-
munists or fellow - traveller
gangs which are dynamiting
British - owned property and
police-stations and murdering
Europeans. The police say that
the ruffians who have been stab-
bing and throwing victims, dead
or alive, into furnaces are merely
“subversive elements seeking to
replenish their supplies of arms.”
The Ministry for Home
Affairs in Delhi has produced a
bill to provide imprisonment for
those who take part in railway,
postal, telegraph, armament-fac-
tory or dock strikes, the Com-
munists having sought to use the
strike weapon to paralyse indus-
try as in Australia.
It would be interesting to hear
what Dr. Evatt and his Prime
Minister have to say about this
last development.
It is only six or seven months
since they ordered their repre-
sentative in Tokyo to protest
violently because General Mac-
Arthur ordered the Japanese
civil-service trade-unions not to
strike and deprived them of col-
lective bargaining-power when
they attempted to use their
strength to enforce demands. It
has since transpired that the
strikes were Communist-orga-
nised. The organisers hoped to
paralyse the Government, then
to produce open rebellion in
October last. Apparently mea-
sures taken by the United States,
our ally and representative,
against disrupters are one thing ;
the same measures taken by an
unstable Asiatic regime, whose
leader has made it clear within
the past few days that Canberra
can hope for no support from
him on the White Australia
policy, is another altogether, and
so far quite tolerable.
It will be interesting to see if
Dr. Evatt chides Pandit Nehru
during his stay in New Delhi to
discuss the Karen and Commun-
ist risings in another of Austra-
lia’s first-preference “allied”
countries —Burma.
Burma’s chaotic affairs burst
wide open while that country
was “helping” to settle the Indo-
nesian question in conference
with our Dr. Burton and another
delegate, unheard of before and
now forgotten.
Though the Karens completely
immobilised the Government of
Burma, however, and threat-
ened the capital and every large
city, it did not become news with
the great Australian press—•
which was, absorbed in such
epoch-making events as the
alleged doping of racehorses and
the romantic dispatch of a
youngster to his negro father in
the United States at considerable
expense—until the conference
was called at Delhi “to attempt
to find ways and means of assist-
ing Burma to regain stability
and encourage Burmese rice ex-
ports.”
The meeting was called by
Pandit Nehru, who summoned
Australia, Ceylon and Pakistan
to take part —along with Britain,
which had been ignored when
the conference on Indonesia was
held, it being then considered
that she had no interest in South-
East Asia.
Now, however, there is a pro-
blem which it is hoped to solve
by Britain and the despised
White Australia—but particu-
larly Britain—finding the means
for the “self-governing” Bur-
mese Government to finance rice
export. Britain, of course, was
kicked out of Burma to the
cheers of the freedom-loving
press of New York and Sydney,
and obviously to the satisfaction
of India and Canberra. It has
been in a blood-bath ever since.
When help is needed Britain is
the only country which can give
it.
Siam, another country which
consented to meet our emissaries
at New Delhi when they went
there to dragoon the Dutch, is
also at the moment suffering re-
bellion.
The Philippines are better off
only because of the presence of
substantial United States forces.
And who is governing China
“I'd prefer one that rolls rather than pitches."
nobody seems to know. The
Communists have placed the
North under an Iron Curtain.
U.K. Defence and the
Air.
“Ek Dum”: The R.A.F. is in
a state of transition. Mr. Arthur
Henderson, Air Secretary, said in
his memorandum on the 1949-50
estimates that there had been a
supplementary estimate of
£16,400,000 sterling for 1948-49,
and there was an addition to last
year’s estimate for 1949-50 of
£34,000,000.
In a very limited explanation
he made it clear that much of
this was due to the hurried
equipment of the RA.F. with
jet-fighters for defence and the
inception of the work which
would put jet-bombers “of ex-
ceptionally high performance”
into the air soon. Fighters neces-
sarily have priority in any de-
fence scheme.
The “Times” aviation corres-
pondent next day, however,
painted a gloomy picture of the
air defence—very like that which
could have been painted in the
period of transition in 1939. He
said that the R.A.F.’s striking
force was obsolete. He declared
that the two jet-bombers now
under development would not be
ready for two years, and he ex-
pressed doubts whether the
RA.F. equipment was being de-
veloped with the speed and vigor
which the situation demanded.
However, it is doubtful
whether heavy aircraft can
be developed in Britain’s cir-
cumstances much quicker. The
air department is one in which
the British lead technically de-
spite United States advances,
some of which have been too
fast for prudence, seeing that
mistakes are so costly.
It is no longer a light matter
to have any serious fault in aero-
plane construction and particu-
larly in power-units. Changes
in radical factors become every
year more difficult with every
new complication and elabora-
tion.
And it is necessary, when con-
sidering heavy bombers and
transports—troop transport be-
comes increasingly important—
to consider both overhaul prob-
lems and civilian aircraft de-
velopment.
Civilian long-distance trans-
port-designers are thinking in
terms of 1955 with a goal of
100-seater jet-driven craft in the
250,000-300,0001 b. class, with
cruising speeds over a range of
4500-5000 miles at 450-500 miles
per hour at 35,000 to 50,000 ft.
These schemes would involve
machines of about 200 ft. wing-
span with 30,001 b. payload,
eight 50001 b. s.t. jets, with a tank-
age of about 14,000 gallons.
These figures are based on ex-
periments with the American
849 recorded in the “Aero-
plane.”
Military versions would have
more speed, greater tankage and
less capacity except when used
as transports, armament and
protection and scientific instru-
ments to consider.
The light bomber is a bird of
different plumage from last war’s
version.
All these complications, the
great advances which are being
made almost monthly in the de-
velopment of speed and load-
carrying now that the supersonic
barrier has been definitely
broken through, not to mention
the tactical and strategic prob-
lems which have to be dealt with,
all urge designers to caution.
This is more especially so since
it seems certain that Russia,
whatever German technical
assistance may be available, is
lagging years behind the Western
allies technically in the air and
must continue to lag, if for
no other reason than lack of
special metals which are the key
to many of the greatest prob-
lems which have to be faced.
Thus the Western allies appear
to have an advantage in time.
While it is true that civil air
transport has always lagged be-
hind the fighting services—
usually about six to eight years
in relation to speed as between
fighter and civil aircraft in
Britain —the lag must close up
because of the new commercial
demand for speed, the resources
available to civil air companies
which were not there before
W(orld War II and the new re-
lationship which has developed
between civil air transport and
civil defence. The two are now
inseparable. In time of war civil
and military air forces become
integral.
The kind of thing which has
to be faced in establishing revo-
lutionary types of machines for
production in bulk is shown by
statistics given recently in the
“Aeroplane” by Mr, A. Mathar-
son, F.R.Ae.S.
He says that in 1945 the over-
haul time on an FBO engine was
10 hours. In 1948 it was 250-
300 hours. By 1955 jet-engine
overhaul time will be 700-1000
hours. And the overhaul cost of
a jet engine is about 35-40 per
cent, of the total cost of a piston
engine, though the miles
travelled per overhaul are 25 per
cent, more with jets than with
pistons.
When considerations like this
have to be taken into account
designers are inclined to pause
as long as possible to make sure
they are on the right track,
especially when they face all the
new revolutionary controversies
to settle the final shape of air-
craft. This will come out of the
whirlpool of experiment which is
determining the relative merits
and purposes of flying wings and
various forms of space-saving
and strength- and speed-making
fuselages and forms in general.
We have reached a point at
which a 60-ton aircraft—the
Boeing XB47—has flown 2289
miles across the American con-
tinent in three hours 46 minutes
at an average speed of 607.2
m.p.h.—altitude, not given. This
craft has a thrust of 42,000 lb. in
her power-plants when her 18
internal rockets come into play
for take-off; a normal thrust in
the air of 24,0001 b to
the power of a destroyer before
World War 11. She can carry
10 tons of bombs for nearly
2000 miles.
But the design of machines
like this is only the beginning of
the job of making a bomber
force.
Thorez Shows His Hand
“Ek Dum”; Following a state-
ment by the Secretary-General
of the French Communist party,
Maurice Thorez, one of the
group of Comintern leaders who
returned to his own country
from Moscow after the war, that
Communists would welcome
Soviet troops if they came to
France, the French Government
took vigorous action.
Everybody understood the
statement, though it was
couched in terms meant to leave
legal loopholes. Australia’s
Communist leaders had clearly
defined their position along the
same lines months ago without
evoking a word of protest from
either Government or Opposi-
tion, but in France, where there
are a million Communists and
where the Communists deliber-
ately betrayed the country to the
Germans in 1940 and remained
as thick as thieves with Hitler’s
invaders until Russia was
attacked in 1941, the matter was
taken seriously.
Some of the numerous Com-
munist journal offices in Paris
were raided. Fifteen men were
arrested, and four of them held
to be charged with having dis-
closed military secrets.
The French Government is
considering action against all the
members of the Communist
Polit-Bureau, And M. Henri
Queuille, the Prime Minister, has
stated that he is convinced that
if the Russians were to cross the
Rhine, fifth-columnists would
seize the Government and fear
would immobilise the civil popu-
lation.
He added that he knew that
the United States would come
to France’s /aid and that the
country in the end would be
liberated, but that the process
would be terrible:
Next time you probably would be
liberating a corpse, and civilisation
would probably be dead.
There are optimists who think
that it would not be quite as bad
as that. They think that France
might come out of the ordeal at
least cured of her weakness for
Communists and revolutionists
who have been the heart of much
of the world’s troubles in the
last century.
Another Australia-
Firster Cleared.
In the House of Representa-
tives last week, Mr, J. T. Lang
asked:
Will the Attorney-General say
whether subsequent inquiries made
¥l*.° tbe case of C. K. Downe, of
141 The Boulevarde, Punchbowl, one
oi the so-called Australia First men,
have shown that there was a grave
miscarriage of justice?
Has an examination of Downe’s
military record in the A.I.F. shown
that actually during the holding of
the royal commission inquiry,
Downe was a member of a com-
mando unit and was later transferred
to the cipher section of Intelligence?
.Did ho actually remain a member
of the A.I.F. during his period of
internment, receiving his full pay, and
was refused a court-martial on the
grounds that there was no evidence
to justify any charge?
Has the Minister, in a letter dated
July 22, 1948, informed Downe tha't
it has been established not only that
he served well as a soldier but that
his loyalty and discretion were beyond
question?
If so, does the Government pro-
pose to take any further steps to see
that proper reparation is made to
Downe and others who suffered mis-
carriages of justice?
Dr. Evatt replied;
All of the cases regarding the
internment of members of the Aus-
tralia First Movement were con-
sidered by Mr. Justice Clyne, sitting
as a royal commission. It is quite
true that a letter as quoted by the
honorable member was written by
me upon the recommendation of the
appropriate authorities in relation to
Downe. I should like the honorable
member to put his question on the
notice-paper and I shall give him a
complete answer. The letter was
written out of a sense of justice to
the man concerned and I believe it
accurately stated the position as borne
out by evidence which was not
before Mr. Justice Clyne.
Two more Malayan Chinese
nurses, Misses Christina Yew
Peck, of Singapore, and Chang
Peng Chim, of Kuala Lumpur,
have come to Australia to study
at the expense of the A.I.F.
Memorial Nursing Fund
founded by the Eighth Division
through a subscription of several
days’ pay per man as a token of
gratitude to Chinese who risked
or lost their lives in the interests
of p.-0.-w. in Malayan prison
camps. Two other nurses who
have been at the Austin Hospi-
tal, Heidelberg (Vic.), have
finished their training.


/
DIEU ET MON MHO IT
w
BY APPOINTMENT
MOTOR CAR MANUFACTURERS TO
HUMBER LIMITED
i
H.M. THE KING
W.
I I
• 9 •
HUMBER
0
m
0
is
:; ;
■
1
m
. r
m
■
■i-y--
' i' ; .y
S2S
■
■-I'.'.-'iV*' ■
sail
■
\ r 2<
PRECISION-BUILT, GRACEFUL
POWERFUL, ROOMY .. .
with a wider track and ample ground clearance for the roughest
roads. The first British car in its class to combine these and many
other advantages.
ONLY THE BRILLIANT NEW HUMBER SUPER
SNIPE GIVES YOU ALL THESE OUTSTANDING
FEATURES..
•jlk Precision-Built six-cylinder power unit of 27 h.p. develops over
100 b.h.p.
Outstanding Top Gear Performance—s-80 m.p.h.
Full Six-Seater Roominess and Comfort in generously dimensioned
all steel safety body.
+ High Efficiency Variable-Ratio Steering gives precise needle-eye
control at high speeds.
Superb Riding Comfort maintained by Evenkeel independent front
wheel springing, long semi-elliptic rear springs, anti-sway bar and
hydraulic shock absorbers.
Attractive Modern Interior Styling —deeply cushioned seating
upholstered in leather throughout.
Synchromatic finger-tip Synchromesh 4-speed gearchange.
m
SB
mmm
m
FiAV^
m
t
FULL SIX-SEATER
ROOMINESS
PROVED FINGER-
TIP SYNCHROMATIC*
GEAR.C H A N G E
ť
QUEENSLAND :
john McGrath motors (pty.) ltd.,
324 Wickham Street, The Valley, Brisbane.
Te!.; L 1817.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA :
FLINDERS MOTORS LTD.,
62 Currie Street, Adelaide.
Tel.; Central 6660.
Distributors for Humber Ltd.
NEW SOUTH WALES:
john McGrath motors (pty.) ltd.,
Head Office and Showrooms:
252 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. Tel.; MA 6838.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA :
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO. LTD.,
900 Hay Street, Perth.
Te!.: 87174.
VICTORIA :
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY. LTD.,
222 Exhibition Street, Melbourne.
Opp. His Majesty’s Theatre. Tel.: Central 7550
TASMANIA :
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS PTY. LTD.,
Cr. York and St. John Streets, Launceston.
Tel.: 1676.
A PRODUCT OF THE ROOTES GROUP
ENGL
AND AUSTRALIA


JU‘ n }
Your choice la CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
•weet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
&& cafz W,
?**r
S?A?:?
:°(JTif
ŧ
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney,
62 YEARS OP SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
HOTEL METRO POLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modem high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY BATES
Single Booms —
From 8/- per night
Double Rooms —
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
" METROPOLE/’
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
iH
mm
u\m
I mm
Min'
ii I
9 0-iX mm I
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EUROPEAN AID PROSPECTS.
One thing American taxpayers
are getting for their astronomical
contribution to European re-
covery is a notably thorough re-
port from their press. The
amount of paper devoted by
magazines and newspapers to
editorials, special articles,
news-items and comment by
columnists on the subject would
probably last the N. S. Wales
Government Printer for at least
12 months.
Any taxpayer, however, wish-
ing to know where and how his
contribution is going is faced not
only with the formidable chore
of wadmg through a mass of in-
formation and a welter of con-
flicting opinions, but also with
the equally difficult task of sort-
ing out the complicated organisa-
tion which has sprung from the
Marshall Plan. As Demaree
Bess points out in the “Saturday
Evening Post,” any inquirer is
faced with such cryptic stum-
bling-blocks as the E.C.A., the
O. the O.U.S.S.P., the
P. the A.C.F.M.P. and the
M.A.C.I.M.F.P.
Bess, in a very able attempt at
simplification, traces the growth
of the original Marshall Plan to
the elaborate European Recovery
Programme, with the creation by
Congress in the U.S. of the
Economic Co-operation Admin-
istration to watch and direct
E.R.P. operations. The third
alphabetical riddle, the Organisa-
tion for European Economic Co-
operation, was set up by the 19
beneficiaries under the aid plan
to hammer their individual needs
or requests into some kind of
general workable plan for
mission to the U.S. Congress.
A comparatively generous view
of how that set-up is faring is
taken by Charles R. Hargrave,
“Wall - street Journal” corre-
spondent in Paris: “The nearly $5
billion American taxpayers pro-
vided the 19 nations comprising
the Organisation for European
Economic Co-operation for the
first year will not carry them
through to the beginning of the
second year of the European Re-
covery Programme, They will
require $1.2 billion or more for
the April-June quarter. The
second year proper will cost
about $4.3 billion. And despite
the fact that these countries have
pledged themselves to achieve a
satisfactory European economy
without extraordinary outside aid
not later than 1952, they estimate
their deficits may run as high as
$3 billion a year after that.
“Does the O.E.E.C.’s progress
justify this? In the first place,
the Economic Co-operation Ad-
ministration maintains that the
nations participating in the
O.E.E.C. are learning co-opera-
tion —a lesson so important that
if it is not learned the E.R.P. will
bo just so many billions of
dollars wasted,
“To Europe this was a novel
idea. - The 19 Marshall Plan
countries or parts of countries
emerged from the war with the
traditional idea that each must
work out its own resurrection
irrespective of its neighbors. For
nations which had customarily
thought of themselves as rival
economic units suddenly to
regard themselves as members
of one economic community in-
volved a shift of attitudes of
revolutionary proportions.
“Misery makes strange bed-
fellows, and fear of misery can
be held responsible for the
present grouping of the 19 under
the O.E.E.C. Whether or not
they would hold together if
American aid were stopped, at
least a start has been made.
“That is one achievement to
which O.E.E.C. points with pride.
Another is the salvation of
Western Europe from Com-
munism, which' the E.C.A. claims
would have engulfed it by now
if there had been no Marshall
Plan. The E.C.A.’s highly
organised propaganda concen-
trates on showing how E.R.P.
fuel and raw materials and food
have enabled Europe’s masses to
escape famine and severe un-
employment.
“The E.C.A. is also wont to
take credit for the collapse of
Communist-inspired campaigns
to paralyse national activities and
so discredit moderate Govern-
ments' in France, Italy and else-
where. The very bitterness and
strenuousness of Communist
opposition to the E.R.P. is inter-
preted as the measure of its
menace in the eyes of Moscow.
Nowhere except in Berlin is the
cold war being fought more
violently than on the battlefields
of the E.R.P.
“But it needs no saying that
the E.R.P. won’t have done its
job merely by staving off
economic collapse and the
triumph of Communism. It has
to make of each country a busi-
ness that can pay its way. The
Marshall Plan nations cannot
live indefinitely on the continued
inpouring of American food and
raw materials and equipment
free of charge. If they do they
will remain beggars, and when
begging in Washington produces
no results they will have to beg
in Moscow.
“The big question therefore
remains how far the Western
European economy has actually
recovered and what its prospects
for further recovery are.
“According to the recent
O.E.E.C. report on the so-called
master plan of recovery. Western
Europe as a whole has regained
its pre-war level of industrial
production, but not yet that of
agricultural. Its trade with the
rest of the world is reckoned at
85 per cent, of pre-war and its
exports at 80 per cent. Exclud-
ing Western Germany, whose re-
covery still lags, the main in-
dustrial members of the O.E.E.C.
show an increase in output of
17 per cent, above pre-war. And
even Western Germany is about
70 per cent, of pre-war,
“But progress is uneven and
the usual comparison with 1938
is no proper one, because 1938
was a mediocre year; Western
Europe has to make a far better
showing than it did then in order
to become a paying proposition.
“It is paying for only half its
imports now, and even in the
coming year plans to pay for no
more than 60 per cent. Trade
between its own components is
well under pre-war level. The
population is one-tenth larger
sume^to^eU o an^buyfthjf much
more. In fact, by 1952 agricul-
tural production must be boosted
another 25 per cent, to 40 per
cent, and industrial production
2 5 oer cent, to 30 oer cent.”
To that warning can be 'added
the caution of j ohn j McCloy,
P res^ent °f the World Bank, that
Europeans should avoid the
tend ency to think that the U.S.
will solve all their problems by
Providing money, and correct a
Modern Pilgrims.
A view of the application of
immigration laws that might be
studied by Mr. Calwell is ex-
pressed by N, Y. “Times” in
the case of some illegal immi-
grants to the U.S.
The immigrants, mainly Esto-
nians, and including women and
— N. Y. “Daily Mirror . "
AS FAR WEST AS STALIN WILL GO.
children, have been arriving in
the U.S, off and on for over
two years, after crossing the
Atlantic generally in small fish-
ing boats and taking up to 70
days to make the voyage. The
U.S. Immigration Service has
allowed some to remain, but, to
avoid establishing a precedent,
it is now endeavoring to ar-
range for their return to Sweden,
their last port of call.
The “Times” opinion is that,
although “these adventurous
newcomers entered this country
without any proper papers,
something more than law is in-
volved here. The Baltic States
are actually conquered nations,
taken over by Russia without
the consent of their inhabitants.
“Of the few citizens of those
nations who have managed to
get out, those that have reached
the United States and Canada
mu f be by all odds the sturdiest
and “°? t freedom-loving. They
and their children would enrich
our population. To turn them
bac^ t ou \ dbe offence agamst
tbe lottiest American traditions,
Lynskey Debate.
In view of some of the un-
edifying performances at Can-
berra from time to time, one of
the most noteworthy features of
the resignation of Mr. John
Belcher from the House of
Commons following the findings
of the Eynskey Tribunal was the
quiet dignity with which the pro-
ceedings were conducted.
The occasion could have been
an excellent opportunity for
muckraking and recrimina-
tions, but, as Mr. Churchill re-
marked, “I cannot feel that any
party issue is involved. This
House of Commons has shown
itself vigilant in the protection of
its honor, and has realised that
it is with its honor that the
dignity and strength of demo-
cratic Parliamentary institutions
are concerned. The honor of the
Labor party, of the Conservative
party, and the Liberal party are
not the interests of those parties
alone, but of the British nation,
which all parties try to serve
according to their lights or lack
of lights.”
In a simple and not unmoving
statement, Belcher himself had
little to say of a critical nature
except that “less than justice was
done by some sections of the
press to those who appeared be-
fore the tribunal. One instance
was the quite unnecessary bandy-
ing-about of the affectionate
diminutive by which my wife is
known to her friends; another
is an example of an invasion of
my home by photographers who,
possibly really wishing to assist
by showing it to be an ordinary
home, by a rearrangement or
disarrangement of the contents
of my living-room prostrated my
wife because they represented
my home to be something in the
nature of a slum, and in spite of
protests there has been no with-
drawal.”
Another section of the press
came in for criticism when Mr.
Hogg, Conservative member for
Oxford, “joined in deploring the
conduct of a Sunday newspaper
in actually putting before its
readers the reminiscences of Mr.
Stanley.” That same matter
came up for attention earlier
when Mr. Wilson Harris, Inde-
pendent member for Cambridge
University, asked the Attorney-
General to “see that any sums
secured by any individual
through exploiting a depraved
career in the columns of the
Sunday papers be diverted into
the proper channels.” To which
the A.-G. replied, “I have no
doubt that the appropriate
authorities will not neglect that
possibility.”
After Belcher had left the
Chamber Mr. Attlee moved the
acceptance of the Lynskey
Tribunal’s report and, later, had
something interesting to say on
“contact - men”: “It appears
that these persons hold them-
selves out as having a special
knowledge of the working of a
department or even, in some
cases, as being in a position to
influence Ministers or civil
servants in return-for payment
made to themselves in one form
or another. There appear to
me to be two distinct types.
There is first the man who, be-
cause of his specialised know-
ledge, is able to advise people
how best to present their case to
a department, and many of these
men are perfectly honest and
reputable, performing the same
kind of professional function as
a tax consultant.
“There is, though, a danger
of abuse. There may be persons
who claim to have, or to have
had, a special access to persons
in a department. Such a person
may owe his success and his
power to make money by hold-
ing out, however falsely, that he
could get advantages for his
client from that access. I think
there is a case there for inquiry,
and I propose to set up a
committee to examine this
matter.” (The committee has
since been appointed.)
“But there also appears to be
a different type of contact-man.
He is a man who is acquainted
with members of Parliament or
Ministers and who offers for
gain to put persons in touch with
them. These people gain access
to the House upon various pre-
texts. It would appear that some
of them make quite improper use
of the facilities of this House.” ’
Mr. Churchill, touching on the
capacity, or incapacity, of the law
to catch up with Stanley, warned
the Government of the danger
of introducing “a vast catalogue
of new crimes and penalties
We on this side of the House are
convinced that the enforcement,
or attempted enforcement, as a
peace-time policy of thousands
of war-time regulations by scores
of thousands of war-time or
post-war officials, whatever pen-
alties Parliament may decree,
will result in the breaking-down
of the respect for law, custom
and tradition which has played
so large a part in the reputation
of our people, and was so vital


a factor in our survival during
the period of mortal peril
through which we have passed.”
Mr. Churchill’s theme was
taken up editorially by London
“Times,” which concluded:
“Underlying every evil practice
that was alleged before the
tribunal, and providing the
breeding-ground for contact-men
and other undesirables, remains
the huge, unwieldy apparatus of
regulations and controls. Mr,
Churchill denounced its abuses
without getting quite to the heart
— N. Y. “Daily Mirror."
SUCH PRETTY BRACELETS.
of the trouble. Mere abundance
of rules, even mere complexity,
does not of itself generate
Stanleys. ,
“The particular—and very
large-—class of regulations that
cause the trouble are those that
lay down a prohibition which is
not universal but subject to dis-
pensation by licence. Thereby
they create a privileged class, the
licence-holders; and where there
is privilege there is a human
tendency to speculate whether it
can be bought. It is when we
can drastically reduce the need
for allotting these privileges
through Government depart-
ments that the contact men will
really fall on lean times.”
Mindszenty Trial.
In one aspect at least the
“trial” of Cardinal Mindszenty
failed miserably from a Com-
munist point of view. The Corns,
with what must be a world-
champion exhibition of leather-
headed optimism, took elaborate
precautions in an attempt to en-
sure that the “trial” would have
a minimum effect as anti-Com-
munist propaganda. Hungarian
press chief, Ivan Boldizar, “read
the Riot Act to correspondents
‘to make it plain that Cardinal
Mindszenty is not a brave man
or a hero’,” and a considerable
amount of verbage was given out
in an effort to make it appear that
the Cardinal was an ordinary
human being receiving ordinary
human justice.
If the Communists had any
sincere hopes about softening
world reaction they couldn’t
have come a more spectacular
flop. The unanimous and un-
mistaken verdict of the Christian
world outside the Iron Curtain
was epitomised in such news-
papers as London “Times” and
its New York namesake.
Of these “people’s courts”
London “Times” said “Their
tasks, as instruments of Com-
munist policy, are to arraign and
condemn the enemies of the
Communist State The ap-
pointed end is a conviction, and,
by whatever mode of persuasion,
a confession is the familiar pre-
lude to the inevitable sentence.
“He will remain, to all the
free world, as to his fellow-
Catholics, ‘an outstanding victim
representing the shpreme defence
of human liberty in its most
fundamental form namely,
freedom of conscience which is
man’s most inalienable treasure.”
Editorial comment in the
N. Y. “Times” followed much
the same line: “The Budapest
trial follows exactly the familiar
script of all such trials under
Communist regimes. The best
judgment of those whose busi-
ness it is to study such things is
that arrests and trials are com-
pletely political. We have to fall
back on the belief that as in
former and similar trials the
accused persons were subjected
to physical or mental torture or
were otherwise induced to con-
fess crimes they never com-
mitted.
“Yet Cardinal Mindszenty
was basically guilty of one
‘crime* against the kind of
‘people’s democracy’ that has
subjugated Hungary. He be-
lieved in the ethics of the
Sermon on the Mount, and in
the dignity and value of the in-
dividual human life. And these
beliefs are treason now in
Eastern Europe.”
To those responsible and far-
reaching expressions was added
the powerful voice of Cardinal
Spellman, Archbishop of New
York:
“Had I a hundred tongues, a
hundred mouths, a voice of iron,
1 could not compass all the
crimes of the ‘men of sin’ as
they wage war against the ‘Man
of Sorrows’; neither can I re-
count the miseries perpetrated
by these slave-men, crimes
which it is neither in my personal
power to relieve or prevent.
Nevertheless, so long as my heart
beats and breath lingers in my
body, I shall never cease to pray
and labor to protect America,
and warn and work against
Communism and all the evils
growing from out its rotted roots,
for I believe that ‘rebellion to
tyrants is obedience to God.’
“While a whole world waged
war and tragically talked of
peace, I witnessed the sufferings
of men in a world trapped by
fear, famine and madness called
Communism. It was then that I
resolved to try to pour into the
minds of every American a sense
of great gratitude to God for
our freedom, our liberties, our
opportunities and instil within
those minds the realisation of the
imminent dangers of atheistic
Communism to America.
“And I avow that unless the
whole American people unite to
stop the Communist floodings of
our own land, our sons, for the
third and last time, shall be sum-
moned from the comforts, tran-
quillity and love of their own
homes and families to bear arms
against those who would dese-
crate and destroy them. It xs
full time that a strong and
vigilant America unite and try
to help save civilisation from the
world’s most fiendish, ghoulish
men of slaughter, lest the an-
guished spending of a million
lives will end again in war’s be-
ginning.”
Yugoslavia.
Although the opinion ex-
pressed by Leopold Kohr in a
letter to N. Y. “Times” and re-
ported here last week —that the
Tito-Stalin differences are only
a conspiracy between the two to
persuade the Western Powers,
particularly the U.S. and Britain,
to pour goods and materials into
Yugoslavia—is not subscribed to
by a “U.S. News and World
Report” correspondent in Bel-
grade, his findings still fit in re-
markably well with Kohr’s
theory.
In Yugoslavia the “News” man
notes “many sighs that Marshal
Tito is doing fairly well with
what he has. There is a lot of
enthusiasm for his plan among
industrial workers, the youth and
the men who helped the Marshal
fight Germans in World War 11.
“Everyone appears to have a
job; there are few idlers on the
streets. Most Yugoslavs work
for the Government, because
practically every industry is
nationalised. Marshal Tito’s five-
year plan has turned the country
into one huge construction site.
Scaffoldings are visible every-
where in the cities, towns and
villages ; sidewalks are piled high
with bricks.
“Yugoslav industry is working
at capacity. Carloadings are
nearly double pre-war levels.
Certain industries are hitting the
1951 production targets of the
five-year plan this year. But
Yugoslav recovery is not uni-
form ; output lags in many vital
industries.
“Trouble is that Marshal
Tito’s Yugoslavia is doing about
as much as it can with the exist-
ing plant. Throughout the
country, industrial machinery is
breaking down under the strain
of capacity output on a 24-hour
schedule. There are no replace-
ments for broken parts, no new
machinery for the new factory
buildings erected by volunteer
labor battalions.
“Russia’s squeeze is gripping
Yugoslav economy where it
hurts most. Marshal Tito, before
the break with Moscow, was
counting on Russia and her
satellites for capital goods and
fuel.
“Oil was shut off first. The
Moscow-controlled oil company
in Rumania cancelled all de-
liveries of oil to Yugoslavia, On
Moscow’s orders, Albania also
refused to send oil to Marshal
Tito. Russian technicians who
were putting in Yugoslavia’s first
important oil-wells quit work and
went home, taking their equip-
ment with them.
“To meet the emergency.
Marshal Tito succeeded in get-
ting some oil from Britain and
from the U.S. But he has not
persuaded the American State
Department to let American oil
companies complete the Yugo-
slav wells begun by Russians.
“Machinery promised to Yugo-
slavia by Russia and the satellite
countries is not coming through.
The Yugoslavs were to get
$562,000,000-worth of machinery
from the Eastern bloc before the
end of 1951. Little or none of it
has turned up in Yugoslavia.
“Russia, for example, was to
deliver complete plants for iron,
steel, chemicals and non-ferrous
metals. Czechoslovakia was to
send machine tools, electrical
machinery and transport equip-
ment. Poland promised loco-
motives, textile machinery and
electrical supplies. Hungary
agreed to send $ 155,000,600-
worth of industrial equipment to
Yugoslavia by the end of 1951.
But deliveries are not being
made. . ,
“The Yugoslavs are saying that
the failure of the Eastern bloc
t? deliver these goods antedates
the break between Belgrade and
Moscow over Communist ideo-
logy. Sad experience convinced
the Yugoslavs nearly a year ago
that the other countries of the
Eastern bloc traded with Yugo-
slavia on the same terms on
which they traded with the West,
if not on worse terms. They
took Yugoslav raw materials
gladly, but they failed to send
the machinery promised in
return.”
Very little of the foregoing
specifically disagrees with Kohr’s
assumption that Tito’s falling
out with Russia is simply a Com-
munist hoax. Taking the return
of the Russian technicians as
part of the general build-up for
Western consumption, the rest of
the picture proves nothing one
way or the other. The industri-
alisation of Yugoslavia should
suit Stalin as well as it does
Tito ; likewise oil, and any other
supplies for that matter, from the
West. The non-delivery of
machinery and materials from
Russia and its satellites may be
part of a “squeeze,” but it also
looks suspiciously like the
typical operation of the Soviet’s
peculiar ideas of “reciprocal
trade.”
As more definite evidence of
the Moscow-Tito rift the “News”
correspondent reports that “poli-
tical pressure on Tito and his
followers is increasing daily.
Bulgaria’s Communist Govern-
ment, faithful to Moscow, is
picking a quarrel with Yugo-
slavia over Macedonia, and
border incidents involving troops
are frequent. Inside Yugoslavia
Marshal Tito’s secret police
appear to have the country well
in hand, but political assassina-
tions are nothing new in the
Balkans, Moscow would like
nothing better than to remove
Marshal Tito and replace him
with a Yugoslav Communist
more obedient to Russian
orders.”
The pertinent question there,
of course, is why hasn’t Moscow
“removed” Tito long ago?
“Travelling alone,” the cor-
respondent concludes, “Tito’s
Yugoslavia can go nowhere but
backward. The country can get
along indefinitely under a
peasant economy if it gives up
Tito’s dream of an industrial
paradise. In that case, however,
the Yugoslavs might well decide
that they can get along without
Tito, too. As a result, the Com-
munist dictator who has defied
Moscow is likely to increase his
efforts to get help from the West
to keep his regime going.”
That help from the West,
particularly machinery and
materials, is precisely what Stalin
wants for his end of Europe, so,
no matter how much Tito “in-
creases his efforts,” until the
West gives him a definite reply
it will be difficult to determine
whether he is working for him-
self or for Moscow.
U.S. Air Power.
Casting a critical eye over
Uncle Sam’s shape in the air,
Chicago “Tribune” notes with
approval that, although those re-
sponsible for defending Alaska,
the Philippines, Greenland and
Iceland are not altogether happy
—Washington "Post.”
“THAT WAS WHEN I WAS JUST A LITTLE KID.”
about their allocation of aircraft,
“the American strategic Air
Force is the only one of its kind
in existence capable of striking
over half a hemisphere with air-
craft of sufficient range to permit
their deviation from direct
courses between bases and
obvious targets,”
At the moment the U.S. Air
Force’s main striking power rests
mainly in long-range aircraft of
last-war pattern, plus a sprink-
ling of new jobs placed in opera-
tion since the defeat of Japan.
There has been a more rapid de-
velopment with fighters, and 70
per cent, of all fighter squadrons
can send up high-speed, short-
range jet aircraft.
As it stands, the U.S. Air
Force consists of about 60
groups, of which 25 are made up
of light bombers, troop-carriers
and recces., and 35 of fighter?,
heavy bombers and medium
bombers. There is only one
“heavy” operational wing at
present, with a second coming
up. Their crews will fly B-365, for
which are claimed a 10,0001 b.
bomb-load, a 10,000-miles range
and a cruising speed of 300
m.p.h. The other bomb groups
fly B-29s and B-50s, both im-
proved versions of the war-time
Superfortress.
Guided-missiles, the “Tribune”
reports, are not yet ready to re-
place aircrews, either in attack
oi defence. But there,is no un-
certainty about the atom-bomb.
According to Lieut.-General
Kenney, who lately commanded
it, “the strategic Air Force is on
a constant alert status with atom-
bombs ready for strikes at any
nation which might direct a blow
at the U.S.
“Within four hours after an
enemy raid or war declaration a
series of retaliatory bombers
would be off on selected routes
to targets already picked with
the most terrible weapon, in
history in their bomb-bays.”
The China Sell-out— N. Y. “World-
Telegram” on one cause of the Chiang
side’s defeats; “China’s air force
broke down because we [U.S.A.] did
not deliver the spare parts we
promised when we sold the planes.
That was part of the pressure we
applied to force Chiang Kai-shek to
accept the Marshall plan for a
coalition with the Communists.’
* * * *
U.S. Aid Bill. —The U.S. is spend-
ing more on foreign aid than on
education. According to U.S. “News
and World Report,” figures for 1948-
49 are: Education $5,525,000,000,
foreign aid $7,200,000,000, defence
$12,300,000,000.
* * * *
"That Dying Hag.” —“This is diffi-
cult to understand —this fascination
that the continent of Europe has for us.
My ancestors and your ancestors left
Europe for the West and for our
country generations ago. All had
some good personal reason to leave.
Life there—in Scotland, or Ireland,
or England or on the Continent —was
so unhappy that they came westward
to live new lives on a new continent.
Now, tell me this. Why is it that
we, their descendants, persist in turn-
ing backward, return to that dying
hag which is Europe with all our
wealth and our youth and at the
same time turn our backs on this
young, blooming, richly endowed far
Pacific which beckons a welcome?” —
General MacArthur in July, 1945, as
reported by John O’Donnell in N. Y.
“Daily News,”


Ballad for Vinia Fea
BY J.H. MELVILLE
VINIA FEA recites as though under
torment of a demon’s goad. Meaty
ballads are her choice. Bony fingers
twiddling, she roams the stage,
rousing and hounding her audience.
Caught fleetingly in silhouette, her face
is a flyaway, zigzag line; champing teeth
that are set high back from her chin —
the wedge chin of the Feas —jut awk-
wardly from their arrowhead recess. A
clasp is cunningly placed to hide a scar
and sprawls spider-like in her coppery
hair. As she contorts under stress, her
voice is choked and intense, but the
writhing of her willowy frame is not un-
gainly,
‘ ‘ pv INNA ye hear it? —dinna ye hear
it?” she rants. And if a mum-
bled “Aye” comes from here and there
or heads are nodded involuntarily as
Havelock’s pipers are heard in the clatter
of a spinning ventilator, that is no cause
for amusement. Driving on, she mangles
her vowels with professional aplomb—
well she might, too, since there hangs
from Fea’s gate a neatly-lettered board
to proclaim her “teacher of elocution and
voice-culture” —and her audience is deeply
impressed.
True, their esteem may be fringed by
self-righteousness. Such talent as the
Feas shared led traditionally to the
courtroom, and Vinia’s change of direc-
tion, hailed as a triumph of virtue, may
have inspired some among her admirers
to dap for their own redemption. She
was applauded more readily as the
daughter of rascally old Herb. But that
there was more to it than smug patron-
age was shown by the band of pupils who
came dawdling over the stone bridge to
Fea’s,
SHE sent little boys home piping
grimly of hanging Danny Deever,
and even Mrs. Seelye-Hunt’s dour Wanda,
with whose sensibility she was entrusted,
could chant a jungle piece in fierce tom-
tom style. This was a feat that delighted
Mrs. Seelye-Hunt. Her child’s render-
ing so affected her, she boasted, that on
recalling it she was apt to go creeping
round at any hour of the night securing
wiadow-latches. Coming from the
Mayoress, this tribute to Vinia Fea’s skill
was freely quoted.
Her pupils’ parents and most others
who praised her reckoned her artistry by
its distance from the everyday round,
seeing its merit in blind transformation.
And by this reckoning she was highly
talented. Dominant and impassioned on
the stage, she was bound to recross the
gap over which she had leapt into art
and to become again the fading, wispy
woman who seemed, as she cuddled her
wicker basket, to glide about the town-
ship rather than be propelled on tiny feet.
Her conversational style then was an
affair of whispering and sleeve-plucking.
Unwary acquaintances were backed
against and made uncomfortably inti-
mate with her ceremony of excusing
flatulence by genteel display.
Her eyes, too, were brought to bear as,
with her wedge-chin waggling, she de-
spaired of her father’s mischievous and
cantankerous ways. Making a point, she
thrust her jutting teeth forward as a
weapon of offence and then withdrew so
that response could be noted.
That was the homely, everyday Vinia
Fea. The creature at the mercy of the
reciting demon was an extension, a
phenomenon for appreciation and wonder.
EACH had ground out its own snug
niche. But there was room only so
long as each kept its place. It was dis-
placement and overlap that took people
aback when one day Vinia checked, her
scurrying and struck out in vehement
defence of Lai Harnbee’s honor:
“Weecked and oatreegious! A weecked
and oatreegious theeng!” she exclaimed,
moved to recite in the street her horror
at having heard a woman’s character
foully attacked. Overwhelming her hap-
less listeners, her teeth champing dis-
concertingly near, she told with gestures
and sinister pauses of larrikins at their
midnight revels outside Lai Harnbee’s
window,
“Poor, poor Mrs. Harnbee, Oh, that
awful night.”
But Lai Harnbee was known as a
widow of generous disposition and had
long sinoe mellowed in public censure.
Such of her reputation as had survived
the scandal of her schoolmaster boarder
and a string of incidentals did not seem
a matter for much concern. Certainly,
Vinia’s appeal drew scant sympathy.
Elocutionary zeal unleashed as a means
of personal address came close enough
to intimidation to be resented. Though
others itched under her onslaught,
Sergeant Leaney, who held the opinion
that much tact meant less work, rallied
from his early astonishment and heard
her complaint.
“Ohoopta!” The sergeant was* pon-
dering. “Ah, yes, but we mustn’t let
ourselves be stampeded, must we?”
He was her first campaign victim. Re-
turning from Harnbee’s on the Sunday
morning after her eventful night, she
had spotted him on the stream-bank
and tackled him forthwith. Several times
in the course of her excited report he
had pushed forward a bloodstained
parcel as though anxious to make an
explanation, but was given no chance to
speak.
“Eet was weecked and oatreegious! ”
ALONG a length of the bank vege-
tation had been cleared off and an
excavator had dumped huge heaps of
gravel from which the sun drew sparkling
pin-points of quartz and the sourness of
sewage and dairy-factory whey. It was
in the shade of one of these heaps that
the sergeant stood looking down at Vinia
Fea.
“Ohoopta!” he exclaimed again, clear-
ing his throat with a sound like the hoot
of an owl, and bringing down his hooked
wiry brows—a combination whose effect
could be varied to express most of the
emotions that disturbed him. “Now,
Miss Fea,” he began, and the aspect now
was something like coy raillery, “if it was
to be proved that a woman’s lilywhite
name had been blackened —a lilywhite
reputation,” he mocked, giving his brows
an extra twitch—“then there might be
something doing.”
“Poor Mrs. Harnbee. She didn’t
seem to maind as long as her gates weren’t
left open.”
“Ho, ho, ho! ” gurgled the sergeant, an
eye on Harnbee’s brick chimney smoking
above the trees. “And old Lai thought
more about her gates?”
Vinia shot her chin in close. “My dad
maight be able to do sometheeng,” she
suggested, and then shrank back, observ-
ing.
“Something like getting weed-killer
through a man’s milking machine,” re-
torted the sergeant, somewhat nettled.
“It’s my job to give these matters due
consideration and take whatever action
may be deemed necessary. Miss Fea, and
the less of old Herb—ah, of your dad’s
fancy schemes we have the better.”
“Mr. Goorland wouldn’t laike what
those hooligans said about him either.
They said he was in the house.”
The sergeant shook his head wonder-
ingly. “A scarecrow like Marty Goor-
land.”
“It’s my duty to get sometheeng done.”
“And you’ve done your duty in putting
this in my hands,” was the soothing re-
joinder. “As my wife always says, ‘lf
there’s a woman in this township doing
her Christian duty it’s Vinia Fea in look-
ing after that father of hers.’ ”
She softened. “He is a
trial at times.”
CT ERGEANT LEANEY
snapped a thumb
through his braces and took
a grip on a less soggy side
of his bloodstained parcel.
“ ‘lt’s a blessing for her,’ my
wife says to me, ‘that there’s
an understanding' man like
yourself to keep Herb Fea
out of serious trouble.’ ”
Fearing he had laid it on too
thick, the sergeant bestowed
a saintly smile, but the light
in his leaden eyes was as wan
as a shaft that had pierced a tangled
hedge to reflect in a ditch. “You see
how it is, Miss Fea? Tact. And what’s
fair for your dad is fair for others, too.”
With this conciliatory reasoning, he
waved her on her way down the track.
“I’m trusting you not to say a word
to your dad, now,” he called after her,
his tone that of a bosom-conspirator.
Then, hooting proudly, he set off home
up-stream. His neat piece of diplomacy
would do nicely to round off the joke
about Lai Harnbee and her gates ; and
in his soggy parcel he was taking home
a piece of lamb he’d tactfully acquired
along at the slaughter-house.
VINIA, meanwhile, puzzled over the
“serious trouble” from which a
benevolent sergeant was saving her
father. Not robbery, anyway, she mused
when attracted to the jeweller’s window
by the mirrored trickery of rings nestling
luxuriously in cotton-wool. When the
sensation of a burglary broke loose in
the township, Herb Fea was never among
those suspected.
Between the fins of her hat, a whisper-
ing couple hovering self-consciously be-
hind her were reflected in the mirrors,
and seeing them she scurried away. Sen-
sitive to the strange indrawn reserve of
a Sunday street, she paused to note the
unexpected pattern of sunlight among the
grocer’s enamelware and was pleased a
moment later to spy a bird’s nest high
up in a corner of the barber’s verandah.
Then, by the very incongruity of it,
the massive green door of the bank re-
minded her of her (father’s frailty. He
was anything but what she imagined the
criminal build to be. Not that he was
ailing, either; he could walk up and
down the park with the mower all day as
he told yarns of- his early mission days,
a line of adventure to which thwarted
ambition had apparently left the mower-
man susceptible.
Certainly she would not deny that her
father had been publicly sworn at by a
bank manager, but that was for having
laid a caretaker low with a steaming
pickle-bottle cure for boils. And people
didn’t go to jail for things like that, she
told herself as she skipped off the kerb.
THE honking of an impatient motorist
sent her darting across the street at
top speed. Even here she could draw
reassurance from her father’s conviction
that manliness had declined with horse-
manship—Herb Fea at the wheel was
not a subject for easy speculation—and
indeed he had not hesitated to lay glass
for noisy trucks. So here was another
prospect of crime from which he was
excluded. She began to see the sergeant
as something of an alarmist.
What happened in the privacy of their
home was none of Sergeant Leaney’s
business, either. She wouldn’t deny that
it was embarrassing to have her father
teaching parodies to her pupils, and most
vexing to find him parading in old sacks
as a pauper because she’d refused to lend
her notice-board to such indignities as
“scissors sharpened” and “new potatoes
on sale within,” but that could hardly
be called serious trouble.
Turning down the side-street home,
she was moved to recall his penitence
when previously she had returned from
Harnbee’s;
“Listen to this, Vinia,” he’d cackle, his
head at the radio. “Here’s a bloke that
could take a few lessons from you, eh?”
A salutation, formal and unctuous.
And then she would be reproaching
herself yet again for her callousness. She
did not expect to meet any
other sort of reception than
this.
*
O N one count at least old
Herb Fea was consistent.
He let no working-gang
pass through the district
without acquainting them of
his daughter’s artistry. Ex-
cept for rare visiting experts,
he would boast, his Vinia at
her peak came nearer to be-
ing unintelligible than any-
one else he had heard.
He could regard her
talent as an entity apart
—a pretty transfer peeled from its
backing—thus enabling him to sing her
praises to cronies in the park and then
to be inside a moment or so later nagging
at her in his most unpleasant mood. And
some of his moods were vicious.
“She’s getting very crabbed in her old
age,” he’d jeer, confiding in his solitaire-
board as he snapped his marbles about
like crackers. “She’s got another engage-
ment on and she’s taking it out on an
old man. A harmless old man that’s
got to suffer for her precious engage-
ments.”
“Engagements”— -requests from any-
where for a recitation —were crises, times
of bitter exchanges and eventually her
nerve-racked flight to Harnbee’s.
LAL HARNBEE, on such occasions,
spoke in terms less elegant. A
blowzy, genial farm-woman rocking down
to her yard gate between the inevitable
pair of buckets, she’d greet the fugitive
with, “Doin’ more poitry?”
And with “poitry” as reason enough,
Vinia would be drawn with hardly a
ripple into the placid flow of life at Harn-
bee’s,
There she would he content to drift
about in Lai Harnbee’s wake. Mostly
she had no more ambition than to fol-
low up and down the track of grassy
clumps, bewildered by the complex order
in which buckets were set down and
picked up as their contents were shrewdly
apportioned.
There were odd-size buckets, others
rusting away and a pair of enamelled
aristocrats beside the tank. But these
were casuals on the fringe of action.
Carrying the burden were pigs’-buckets,
hens’-buckets, calves’-buckets and fruit-
buckets.
Sheds were strung out like carriages
coupled to a humped farmhouse of a
locomotive with high brick chimney
smoking; and it seemed to Vinia that
it was the influence of favored spots in
and about these sheds that, as much as
anything, gave identity to members of
Harnbee’s bucket company. Beyond that,
she observed in ignorance.
Such slovenly plodding it was, though,
that enriched the milk-stand with the
eggs, fruit and cream that would await
the carrier. A morning harvest that set
Vinia marvelling.
Though even the elementary stage of
this fertility—the ritual of the buckets —
was beyond her, she submitted gladly to
a certain primitiveness that linked her
to the earthy stability of it all. Alone
at night, she sensed it in the discomfort
of a hard bed and clammy sheets and in
the smell of mould. She welcomed in-
convenience with a buoyant hardiness.
Frogs croaking persistently along the
stream and a host of less definable night
noises did not disturb her now. Indeed
they marked her abandonment so that
her life at home seemed fretful and
trivial, even slightly fanciful.
From all this she drew some of Lai
Harnbee’s imperturbability. She could
picture without agitation her father,
lighted candle in hand, fumbling through
the flimsy hall curtains in search of a
snack—a habit which at home thoroughly
alarmed her.
Thus disposed, she was lying in a glow
of waking apathy when the first hint
of impending outrage came. The distant
puttering of a motor-bike registered
fleetingly on her mind as just another
township noise.
The night was clear and calm with
only a stir of air to waft through her
open window the aroma of currant leaves
damaged in the day’s picking, The
sound of the motor-bike persisted, but
she was rejoicing again in the beauty of
red currants mounting in her basket as
perfect as jewels; the afternoon sun was
making the place a haven of isolation as
Lai Harnbee, wading round through the
cocksfoot, chuckled over witticisms her
brother-in-law relayed from the abattoirs.
But she was shaken out of her reverie
by the approaching racket.
THE motor-bike seemed to be coming
from the stream.
The stream? There was no road from
the stream. Baffled, she spun the house
round, doubting her sense of direction.
Each time the driveway ended under the
poplars on the far side. The motor-bike
was crossing the paddocks, driving
straight at her window. She saw its
headlight now. Then came a volley of
shouting.
She stiffened for a moment, and then
was out of bed, wrapped somehow in a
dressing-gown and groping through to
the adjoining bedroom.
“What’s that out there?”
The clatter of the engine stopped in
the middle of her cry and left her to
shout in the doorway like an idiot.
If by day there was a solidity about
Lai Harnbee, she was substantial now
on the scale of a stone-hewn image. She
sat up in the half-light, grotesque with
papers twisted in her hair and a cavern-
ous mouth toothless. She loosened her
white nightgown and rolled out of bed
grunting.
Outside the window somebody was
playing a saxophone.
(i Continued on page 29.)


SUMMER INTERLUDE
BY E.O. Schlunke
r\ LEX DENHOLM was too good a
f mm \ farmer not to know that after the
( I wheat harvest there should be a
lull in the work of a farm ; while
the red soil lay basking in the hot sun,
gradually breaking and crumbling as it
turned itself in the heat, renewing and
restoring its fertility; until the autumn
rains fell, and the whole countryside
sprang into life again.
Nothing would have suited him better
than to follow the example of his sheep,
which picked through the stubble very
early in the morning for missed heads of
wheat and sweet dry clover, then went
and lay in the shade of the grey-box trees
near the dam all day, to go foraging again
only in the cool of the evening.
But he had his three Italian prisoners-
of-war, whom he was obliged, by military
regulations, to keep gainfully employed.
Two of them were willing enough to
follow nature’s example. Maringoni, who
had been a good, faithful worker for six
months although he was so fat, collapsed
badly when the heat arrived, and at every
break in the work he threw himself on his
bed in attitudes of complete exhaustion ;
and Veracini, who was always dodging
away to the shelter of the cool workshop,
to do little tinkering jobs, being a
mechanic with ideas about his privileges.
AFTER each blazing noon, when Alex
came to give them their work for the
rest of the day, their faces took on ex-
pressions of the utmost misgiving. They
looked out into the glaring sunlight
(which might easily be the death of them),
and back again at Alex, then at each
other significantly, as if they were collect-
ing some terrific evidence for the great
day, when (truth, justice and righteous-
ness having triumphed) Alex would be
standing his trial as a war criminal.
But Rizzio did not worry about the
sun. Indeed, instead of getting some
relief during the sometimes prolonged
“dinner hour” he would sit on the door-
step of the cottage where the sun beat
down at its fiercest, waiting for Alex to
come out from his siesta. The Rizzios
had been farming for generations in the
fertile valleys of Calabria, and he knew
that there was always something im-
portant to be done on a farm.
Yet it was through Maringoni that they
started on a big job again, though cer-
tainly not through his desire or intention.
On a particularly hot afternoon Alex de-
cided that they would all go for a swim
in the big dam near the homestead, which
supplied water for the garden by way of
the windmill.
It was quite astonishing to see the way
Maringoni threw off his lassitude and ex-
haustion. Even Veracini stepped out into
the sun without visibly sagging at the
knees. But Rizzio looked as if he thought
it was all a lot of nonsense, and, as far as
Alex could gather, from the growling
noises he made and the character of the
others’ replies, he was trying to get out
of joining them, and being goaded into it
by gibes about Bas Italians never wanting
to wash themselves.
OFF they went, Alex looking most deli-
cately white of skin beside their olive-
colored bodies, and spare and gaunt com-
pared with their shorter, rounded figures.
Maringoni talking excitedly about how
he had won the one-hundred-metre race
at the Ferrara Picina, telling them that
he was even better at swimming than at
Soccer football. He entered the water
with a spectacular running-dive’ off the
high bank, continued under the water for
about ten yards, then shot up, shaking the
water off his face, which he turned to
observe the others’ admiration. Then he
set off for the other side with beautiful
graceful strokes that carried him through
the water at an impressive speed. He
certainly could swim very well.
But he was not content to leave it at
that. As soon as he had wrung out all
possible commendation for his swimming
he had to show them how he could dive.
He asked Alex very earnestly how deep
the water was, and when he had satis-
factorily translated twelve feet into
metres he climbed on to an overhanging
limb of a lovely sprawling yellow-box
tree, and making it swing to catapult him
into the air he executed a graceful curve
and entered the water vertically leaving
scarcely a ripple where his feet disap-
peared.
Then there was a long and ominous
quiet. Rizzio, who had done no more
than paddle waist-deep at the shallow end,
said something in a sneering tone which
seemed to intimate that Manngom was
only showing off. With, very probably,
a savage hope that he wasn’t.
But soon Veracini went pale all over
his body with anxiety, and even Alex
began to feel nervous. Then a lot of
muddy water rose to the surface, and
presently Maringoni appeared in the
middle of it, looking for all the world
like a seal with the upper half of his
body slimed with sticky black silt. He
gave several desperate gasps, floated a
while to recover his breath, then began
to clean the worst of the mud off in a
most disgusted manner.
As soon as he could open his mouth
without getting it full of silt he started
to make woeful, semi-tearful, complain-
ing noises. Presently he swam slowly out,
and looking at Alex in a grossly injured
and outraged manner, he said, using Jus
arms freely to illustrate distances and
quantities.
“No plenti profundo, Meestair! Fi,
six metre, stop! No plenti water, plenti
sporca! No good you Plenti
profundo,’ posseebile me finish! ”
HE glared at Alex as if he really
thought that he had tried to bring
about his death. Veracini also was staring
at Alex as if he was a very dubious char-
acter. Rizzio looked extremely worried,
but not, it proved, about Maringoni’s
mishap. He said, accusingly:
“No good,, no plenti water. Posseebile
no rain. Gardina stop finish. No vege-
table, no melona, no tomato, no fiore.
Alex turned to Rizzio, glad to have
attention diverted'' from the attempted
murder, but very much concerned about
the situation of his dam.
“Possible reparare,” he replied. “One
big, grosso pala,” and he made shovelling
motions.
“Plenti tempo,” said Rizzio dubiously,
looking at the extent of the four-
thousand-cubic-yard dam.
So Alex tried to explain,to him the
working of a silt-scoop, while Maringoni
stood neglected, looking more injured
every minute, and splashing handfuls of
water at inaccessible patches of mud on
his back. .
* But now the mechanic in Veracini had
become interested, too. He began to talk
very enthusiastically about how it should
be done.
“More better one draga,” he said. And
from his gestures Alex soon understood
that he meant a dredge.
“Silt-scoop similar,” Alex said, realising
that he’d better leave it at that, unless he
wanted, to explain for the rest of the
afternoon. .
“You one siltascoop?” Rizzio asked
him anxiously.
Alex shook his head; “Ma* Mr.
Esmond one big silt-scoop.”
“Posseebile you prestito,” suggested
Rizzio hopefully.
Alex saw the signs of curiosity, ambi-
tion and enthusiasm in Rizzio’s face. He
decided that, heat and inertia notwith-
standing, this was a grand opportunity to
get his dam cleaned out.
As soon as they were dressed, they all
got on to the truck; Rizzio in the cab
with Alex this time, because he was the
moving spirit (instead of Maringoni, who
usually asserted his superiority that way).
Maringoni, still sulking, got on the back
with Veracini and the sheepdogs (who
never missed an opportunity of taking
the air) and seemed to be damning Rizzio
for a cursed collaborator.
ON arriving at Esmonds’ everybody be-
came happier. Esmond seemed glad
of an opportunity to relax. His
prisoners got together with Alex’s, and
great discussion arose, obviouslv about
the silt-scoop, because Esmond’s men
pointed at various of his implements, to
be Ibudly scorned by Veracini and Rizzio,
who both thought they knew what was
required. Alex’s dogs and Esmond’s also
got together, gyrating and strutting,
according to the rigid rules of procedure
laid down by some ancient order of
canines.
Presently Esmond led Alex to the shed
where the silt-scoop was kept, and soon
the Italians followed. Now a silt-scoop
is a very unimposing implement to men
who have been thinking in terms of power-
dredges, merely being an iron box with
one end and the top missing, about four-
feet wide, six-feet long, and two-feet high,
constructed to collect a quantity of mud
when pulled through a dam by a strong
steel cable.
All of the Italians were confounded
when they saw it, because it didn’t look
nearly complicated enough to work. Even
when Alex explained and demonstrated
as well as he could, they merely looked at
him as if they thought that either he was
having a joke with them, or that Australia
had a pitifully low standard of develop-
ment in the matter of excavating mud.
Alex backed his truck to the shed, and
they knew it was no joke. It was still
less a joke when they tried to lift the
scoop. Esmond’s sharefarmer came by
and Esmond called him over to help.
He looked at the quantity of Italians with
great contempt.
“Last time Charlie Hartwig and I
loaded it on to a wagon on our own,”
he said.
HE was not in an amiable mood. He’d
had ideas of borrowing the silt-scoop
himself and making a lot of money on
contract work; but with all the cheap
Italian labor about the landowners were
doing the work themselves. He said
grimly to Alex:
“If you mean to do any good with
these fellows you want to take a dozen
of them along —and do the work your-
self.’’
Then he took hold of one side, and
with most of the prisoners on the other
they gave a great heave, and the scoop
was loaded. They also took Esmond s
heavy road-plough, to plough the batters.
The plough, at least, was familiar to
Rizzio, having the same basic structure
as the ordinary, single-furrow plough he
used on his little farm in Italy, though he
said “Molto forte, molto pesante,” as
if he thought that its strength and weight
were really absurdly overdone.
Then a great agitated discussion broke
out among the Italians, and from a few
words Alex understood he was able to
gather that they were arguing about
whether or not Alex intended to plough
the mud under the water. Alex gave
Esmond a -wink, then turned to the men
in his most serious manner.
“Maringoni plough sotto water,” he
said. “Maringoni very good under
water.”
But the men saw that this time it was
a joke, though Maringoni’s grimace
showed that he considered it a joke in the
lowest possible taste.
NEXT day Veracini got out the tractor
which was to tow out the loads of
mud, and Rizzio harnessed Alex’s four
overfed and underworked draughthorses,
whose job was to pull the empty scoop
back into the dam. But first they
ploughed two strips of land between each
end of the dam and the banks, to facilitate
pulling the scoop up the slope. Rizzio
grabbed the handles of the plough as the
tractor started, and drove it into the
ground with long-practised skill. He
leaned his weight against it, getting the
“feel” of it, and a smile of enormous
pleasure and gratification spread oyer his
simple, rustic face as he followed it over
the upturned earth. He threw the plough
out with a masterly gesture and picked it
up again after each turn, breaking into
a great wide grin each time it bit into the
soil. . , ...
Then they started the mam 30b with
Alex on the bank shouting through a
megaphone to Veracini and Rizzio at the
ends of the cables, with Maringoni beside
him to act as odd-job man and interpreter,
a position he dignified into deputy-
director. It took a good deal of
manoeuvring to get the scoop (suspended
as it was in the middle of a hundred yards
of steel cable) traversing the dam. Each
time Veracini pulled it out empty of mud
Maringoni looked at Alex with embar-
rassed pity, and Rizzio at the other end
struggled more desperately with the un-
ruly, excited horses to drag the scoop
where Alex wanted it.
THE horses were making things very
difficult for him. They would start
off in fine style when the cable was slack,
but soon it would tighten abruptly as the
scoop ascended the bank. Collar-proud,
they’d stop suddenly and the cable, which
had been suspended taut over the watei,
would fall in with a great splash. That
made them bound forward in terror,
they’d jerk the scoop a few yards, stop
again, to tear off when the cable fell into
the water once more. When the scoop
was over the bank it slid easily down to
the water and along the bed of the dam.
The horses cavorted along at a half-
trot, dragging Rizzio with them as he
hung on to the reins. But he looked a
great deal happier than Veracini sitting
on the tractor at his ease, or even
Maringoni, tremendously superior beside
the “padrone” and doing little more than
wiping the perspiration from his brow,
and manoeuvring for opportunities to
stand in the shade of the big yellow-box.
At last they got the scoop into the right
place, the tractor roared loudly and the
cable vibrated with the strain. The scoop
rose out of the water piled high with
great gouts and slabs of tough blue-black
silt. Maringoni was popeyed with wonder.
There was a yell from across the other
side of the dam where Rizzio was watch-
ing. For once he was waving his limbs
with excitement like any ordinary Italian,
holding his arms out in front to indicate
an enormous armful, and grinning
lavishly in triumph. The scoop slid
greasily up the batter, popped over the
top of the bank and stopped at Alex s
signal. Now Veracini was able to see it
too He jumped off the tractor and camp
running to look. Soon Rizzio arrived
also, and they all stood watching as the
great mass of silt oozed out of the open
front of the scoop down the slope of the
bank. They chattered in excited amaze-
ment ; the silt-scoop actually worked ; the
Australians were not such fools after all.
ALTHOUGH silt-scooping is very in-
r\ teresting at the beginning of the job,
it eventually becomes extremely tedious.
The tractor pulls the loaded scoop out
and unhooks; at the other end the
team is hooked to the cable and pulls the
scoop backwards into the dam and un-
hooks; the tractor-man hooks on and
pulls the scoop out; that goes on, day
after day. The man on the bank directs
the operators so that the scoop traverses
by degrees (as far as is possible with such
twice-removed remote control) the whole
of the bed of the dam, then goes over it
again as the stirred-up. mud settles down
again to a workable condition. It goes
on and on. Where the tractor and horses
work, the ground becomes powdered and
clouds of dust rise at each passing.
Sometimes the scoop bites too deeply
into the mud and the cable breaks. Some-
one has to clamber over the sticky mud
and repair it, and someone else is sure
to be blamed for the mishap. The scoop
may become so firmly embedded that it
takes half an hour of elaborate manceuvi-
ing, pulling it with both units from each
end alternately, and in different directions,
to get it moving again.
During the struggles someone is sure
to step on the greasy slide where the scoop
climbs out, and go on a helpless slither
into the water, now so thick with stirred-
up mud that the yabbies are crawling out
at the edges to die, waving clotted claws
and antennae at the monsters of destruc-
tion who have brought this woe into
the world.
The old blue crane who lives there soli-
tarily most of the year had long since
departed, expressing raucous disgust.
K /TARINGONI, dressed in makeshift
IVI shorts and athletic - singlet (as also is
Veracini to underline their protests
against the heat), had most of the mishaps
in the mud and got into a very low state
of mind. He was a man who hated dirt,
he told Alex ; in fact, “All Italy like plenti
clean,” he said, leaving Alex to infer that
Australians, since they readily undertook
such work as silt-scooping, were a dirty
race. . ,
Veracini sweltered on the tractor with
the heat beating down on him, radiating
from the hot metal and blowing on to
him from the engine. He didn t complain
very much, because at least he haa
mechanic’s work, but he performed his
job in a half-dazed automatic manner,
always failing to hear Alex to
him to change his course until he had
repeated himself at least three times, or
sent Maringoni at a slow, unwilling trot
with a message.
Sometimes he was so slow that Rizzio
hauled on the other end before he had
(Continued on page 29.)


FORD *on '49
THE WORLD'S NEWEST CAB
IS HERE
mm
mm
Pi-:. .... *
mm®
y <-
A COMPLETE BREAK WITH THE PAST
and the Fashion for the Future
Ford for ’49 fully justifies the description
of “The World’s Newest car”. Its
entirely new “Low-Silhouette” Styling
will lead the fashion for years to come.
Six big passengers can ride in real elbow-
free comfort in its new extra-wide seats,
surrounded with every appointment that
makes motoring more pleasurable. And
Ford for ’49, with its new springing
and new low-centre-of-gravity chassis,
gives a far safer and smoother kind of
road travel. See for yourself why Ford
for ’49 is making world-wide news I
FVB26-24
mrz
“Mid-Ship” Ridet In Ford for , 49j all
passengers sit Between the wheels, in the
new low-centre area where the going is
smoothest. (Note vast luggage space.)
NEW Sofa-wide scats t NEW “Picture-
Window” Visibility, NEW “Flight-Panel”
Dash. NEW Ventilation, in completely
appointed “Living - Room on Wheels”
Interior. NEW “Magic-Action” Brakes.
NEW Springing. NEW engine layout and
performance.
For full Information about Ford for ’49
see your local Ford Distributor or Dealer
FORD MOTOR COMPAQ Of ftUSTßflllft PTY. LTD. <IHC. W HC.) REG. OFFICE; GttlONG, VIC,
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSOIS a,
OSUIWVAk
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BAOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! I PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“IACKSUL,” BRISBANE
J)*w
Thnqm
BLOTCHY SKIN
If ycuir Longue is cooled,
skin looks blotehu. and
you feel bilious due to
ir re qu I a rit y. these are
indications your system
is sluggish and needs
attention. So tonight
start on a course of
Dr. Morses Indian Root
Pills to liven your
liver and regulate
the bov/els.
DR.MOBSES
PILLS
SUNDRY SHOWS
MOBILE MERCURY.
Sydney’s Mercury Mobile
Players opened their Killara
season with three one-act plays.
J. O. Francis’s “Birds of a
Feather” is one of those rare
pieces of theatre in which sim-
plicity combined with art sets the
mind searching for appreciative
metaphors outside the theatre.
The action is simple enough:
Twm Tinker (Peter Richards) and
Dicky Bach Dwl (John Hoskin)
are sitting by a Welsh public
highway, a few yards away from
the well-stocked stream of the
local potentate, grilling steak
and onions as a disguise for their
poaching intentions ; a pretence
which fails utterly to deceive
Jenkins the Keeper (David
i Magoffin) when he thunderingly
arrives.
I The Bishop of Mid-Wales, a
disarming and pleasant old
gentleman, is also entertained by
the poachers, who at first mis-
take him for a curate, feed him,
and direct him on his absent-
minded way. Humor and action
depend largely on the keeper
mistaking the bishop for a
poacher, the bishop’s strong
temptation to try his hand on
illicit salmon and, finally, on the
bishop’s powerful aid in out-
witting Jenkins and the police.
What lifts “Birds of a Feather”
out of the realm of common-
place farce is the poetry under-
lining the whole night scene, the
call of the river and the teeming
wild life surrounding the three
by the fire, and in the character
of Dicky Bach Dwl, an inspired
loon who feels more affinity with
animals than with men and who
dreads being shut in the four
walls of a jail,
John Hoskin gives this part
the right accent throughout; a
perfect balance between poetry
and clownishness. John Brun-
skill, as the Bishop, was equally
good: his part called for ur-
banity and (a third considerable
merit of the play) the perfect
unfolding of character by the
merest gesture and accent.
“A Pickwick Story,” adapted
by Creswick Jenkinson, shows
five main scenes, more or less
loosely strung together. What
matters is the rich presentation
of Dickens’s characters: and
this is highly successful. From,
Pickwick (Edgar Veitch) to the
Judge who appears in the court
scene (John Brunskill) they are
all excellent, with sometimes a
startling brilliance of impact
which one associates more with
reading Dickens than with the
stage. Something on the same
lines —retaining the flavor of
Dickens rather than lifting the
bare bones of his plots out of his
novels—might be successful on
the .films.
Arthur Schnitzler’s Viennese
sketch “Anatole’s Wedding
Morning” is moderately amus-
ing. Alan White takes the
part of Anatole, the young
man who celebrates his
wedding-eve by spending the
night with a former lady
friend, whom he has not in-
formed of his position. Both
White and Peter Richards (as
Max, the bridegroom) get the
best out of their parts, but Bette
Dickson as Lola is a little too
stiff; she lures and reclines, in-
terrogates and postures magnifi-
cently, but in hysterics she is un-
convincing, and she weeps dry-
eyed ; thereby robbing the play
of the faint touch of pathos re-
quired to give a civilised round-
ness to its rather boisterous
humor.
Thea Rowe.
Thea Rowe must be hard to
know.
As she picked out bits of cloth
from baskets at the Conserva-
torium last Friday she became
20 or 30 different people while
you were watching; and before
any member of the audience
could solve a domestic-servant
problem by offering the broken-
hearted Irish girl on the stage a
job at £6 and all found
she would change into an old
King experimenting with pud-
ding-making.
Her art is a quaint, animated
watercolor of the traditional
songs she sings and mimes, and
it is at its best in comedy, or in
pieces where the gentle colors of
the cloths she ties and wraps
about her to make her wonder-
fully successful characterisations
are matched by headnotes sung
in a half-voice which floats like
a delicate mist about the stage.
The tragic pieces are not so
convincing; her most startling
effects are a projection of
comedy, as in the portrait of
“Uncle Tom Cobley” which
closed the show, where this face
which seems capable of launch-
ing a thousand faces became for
a moment not a mimic face, but
the real face of pathetically
trembling senility.
Bird Picture.
From the prologue to “Bill
and Coo‘,” a film which will
shortly be doing the rounds of
Sydney’s suburban theatres, the
audience learns that it is about
to see a new kind of movie, with
not a human being in it, the last
thing in delight for folk who
maintain that there hasn’t been a
screen-actor worth looking at
since Rin Tin Tin.
The entire furry, feathery cast
of “Bill and Coo” could not fill
a suitcase, nor would all the
film’s settings cover a half-sized
billiards-table. Yet the show
won an Academy Award.
The director is seen in the pro-
logue quietly nibbling bird-
seed, and ostensibly explaining
points about the birds that made
his film possible ; actually he is
producing in the audience a
bombproof state of mind like his
own, so that they can, without
turning a hair, sit back and
watch a bird carrying a parasol
and performing on a tight-rope
—only then are they prepared
for Chirpendale, a fairyland
village inhabited by birds who
walk.
The Wrong Brothers, Orville
and Wilbur, were the first birds
to take to the ground, and they
are honored in the village as
civic heroes with a marble monu-
ment. , Bill, the film’s male lead,
is a budgerigar who holds the
local taxi-plate, and may be for-
given for multiple-hiring as he’s
saving up to marry “Coo,” the
prettiest lass in all Chirpendale.
On their outings the pair of them
can take in a theatre, look with
pride at the local fire-brigade,
wistfully at the church, or with
pity at a bird who gets about on
a scooter and thinks he is
Napoleon. The township even
runs to a pub where birds may
be seen blowing the froth off
middies or sipping mint-juleps
through a straw.
When a circus visits the town
the high notes of the proces-
sion’s fanfare are the caged
“panther” and “tiger”—any-
where else they might seem to
have the look of kittens On them,
but in Chirpendale perspective
they constitute the wildest-look-
ing panther and tiger ever seen.
At first the village seems to
have a general carefree air about
it, and it is a shock to find that
the townsfolk are actually very
worried little people. Some of
them have air-raid warden’s
helmets hanging behind their
doors. Their enemy is a glossy
black crow, a villain who attacks
with fire, or at least strikes
matches, and who once burned
down the pub. He is a horrible
piece of work as he sends the
people scurrying for shelter, and
dwarfs their tiny houses as he
struts about the empty streets,
bringing the late Swastika vividly
to mind.
By ultimately putting this
“Black Menace” behind bars
Bill shows that he is indeed a
hero, and further demonstrates
that fact by getting married.
Against a background of wed-
ding-bells the show concludes
with a magnificent clinch.
Valentino might have done it
just as v well, but certainly no
better.
Artbursts.
Drawings by Ronald Millen,
on view at Sydney Macquarie
Galleries, draw their inspiration,
in the main, from the Ancient
Greek and from fish. At the
five-guinea show at the Mac-
quarie Galleries recently Millen
had a plateful of fish which were
admirably drawn but indubit-
ably dead ; the same can be said
of his “Perseus and Medusa,” his
“Butterfly Fish,” “Ariadne and
Minotaur” and of “Cabbages
and Quinces,” “Persimmon,
Lemon and Shells” and other
still-lifes. His Greek subjects
have their labels, in classical
Greek script, within the draw-
ings ; and a similar zeal for
authenticity seems to lead the
artist to reduce his fish, sea-ser-
pents, lizards and other forms of
zoological life to skeletons. His
skulls and cadavers are, at least,
well-drawn, and his still-lifes
have the calm distinction of pre-
cision, without any sparkle of
life.
* * * ♦
An exhibition by upwards of
60. Melbourne painters at the
Velasquez Galleries shows an
astounding variety of styles.
Most of the pictures are reflect-
ing some other person’s pictures,
and only here and there is a
painting that reflects Nature, In
“Nudes in Chromatic Range”
Bernard Lawson appears to be
reflecting Dobell, remarkably
popular amongst Melbourne
artists since he won the Archi-
bald and Wynne double. Sidney
Nolan’s elongated “Prospector”
standing against a pale Aus-
tralian landscape looks as if
it derives its inspiration from
the pavement school of
painting, and Peter Purves
Smith’s “Botanical Gardens” be-
longs to the Noah’s-ark school
of architecture. Lina Bryans has
a fresh-looking sketch in “Puce
Landscape,” and Arnold Shore
gets light and air into his “Green
Spring, Mount Macedon.” A
still-life by P. Hurry is a sincere
piece of painting.
Chopin’s Concerto No. 1 was
the principal offering by the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra
under Joseph Post when the
Russian-born Vera Benenson
was the pianist ;# and she is a
good one. For the final rondo
the soloist employed when hitting
the bass with her right hand an
over-arm which would delight a
swimming coach, and, on finish-
ing a phrase on a dramatic
climax, she recoiled as if she
had just been shot —which may
be good theatre, but is pianisti-
cally redundant. The orchestra’s
playing was suave throughout.


SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OE MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIMiTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots Wlh.
•weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co..
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on 0.0. D, Orders.
Rtf^
end
an
times.
Al
especially Sn the bath, Cuticura
Soap makes the skin (Rightfully
smooth and charming- Cuticura
and soreness.
the famous trio—-
One
CuticnraSoop,Oint-
ment, Talcum
r kj
Powder.
523
For comfort
afa
SAVING
YOUR HOME
KW V-afIWIP;
I
m
uni
tV,'<
Dm
Oil
V
•, if-
.y.‘Z
•r.
You can make pro-
vision now for your
son’s secondary edu-
cation and business
training by taking
out adequate assur-
ance. The Equitable
Probate &
Insurance Co. Ltd. is
fully experienced in
these matters and
will expertly advise
you.
R. V. PERKINS,
General Manager
EQUITABLE PROBATE
& &feNERAI. INSURANCE, CO. LTD.
//ertW/ce : 3V'373(?oeenSt r Brisfiehe
WIHCULO HOUSE, ANOEL' PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLIN* HOUSE. COLLINS ST, MILBOUHHt
Ml
A v
ss^
FHCIH6 fl PflBK
The one thing you will Imme-
diately notice when vou slay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . • the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a part . . . yet
it is merely "round the comer
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
... the service end cuisine
excellent
THE WENTWORTH
In c-^t^dney-
*Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
*
m
■fgiSggl
Ancestors
of an
Industry
W. A. Tilden noticed that when isoprenc, a
clear oily liquid obtained from acetylene, is allowed
to stand for a long time, it turns into a rubber-like
substance. This observation was the key to the
manufacture of synthetic rubber, and has become
of immense commercial value. Yet at the time —
and for many years afterwards —it remained
simply a chemical curiosity, owing to the low price
of natural rubber. Among his. contemporaries,
Tilden’s reputation rested on his work with the
alkaloids. These substances of plant origin include
cocaine, brucine, morphine and strychnine, and
have great importance in medicine. Our know-
ledge of them is largely due to Tilden.
Born in London in 1842, Tilden served an appren-
ticeship to a pharmacist. When qualified, he
became the demonstrator at the Pharmaceutical
Society’s School, a post he held until appointed
Senior Chemistry Master at Clifton College,
Bristol. In 1880 he moved to Birmingham, and
in 1894 was appointed Professor of Chemistry at
the Royal College of Science.-
London, where he remained until
his retirement in 1919. He died
in 1926 at the age of eighty-four.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
RED MILL RUM.
For the Oakleigh Plate, run at
Caulfield on Saturday, this page had
selected Count Cosmo to win from
his fellow-Sydneysider San Domenico.
As it happened they finished t’other
way about, San Domenico, at 6 to 1,
running Australasian record time to
beat the 50-to-l chance Count
Cosmo by two lengths. Though de-
cisively beaten, Count Cosmo turned
in a pretty stout performance. He
might have finished a lot closer to
the winner had he not been forced
to race wide most of the trip, after
starting from No. 18 post position;
San Domenico started from No. 7.
Racing in his usual game, honest
fashion, under a plaster of 9.3,
Filifhno was a close third in the
Oakleigh; he started at 66 to 1.
After, as usual, taking some dis-
tance to get balanced, San Domenico
gave a brilliant exhibition of pure
speed. There were some smart begin-
ners among the Oakleigh runners,
but only Gay Archer showed any
ability to pace it with the winner,
and Gay Archer was well beaten at
the turn. Gay Saint ran quite a
fair race to finish fourth.
San Domenico has now had eight
starts for six wins, but his Oakleigh
Plate effort alone would stamp the
Hua gelding as an outstanding
sprinter. With A. Ward in the
saddle, San Domenico carried 8.11,
representing 71b. over w.f.a. xfor a
three-year-old gelding, and he cut
out the furlongs in 1.45. The
previous record was set at Caul-
field in 1937 by four-year-old Aurie’s
Star, carrying 8.4, and equalled at
Flemington in 1941 by Zonda, an-
other four-year-old and carrying 7.13.
Since 1884, the Oakleigh has been
won by 11 three-year-olds, and only
one of these, High Title with 8.13 in
1942, carried a greater weight than
San Domenico, ,
San Domenico’s owner, R. P-
Formosa, had hopes of seeing his
classy youngster win the sprinting
treble— Oakleigh, Futurity and New-
market. Certainly San Domenico
must be very hard to beat m the
Newmarket, even though the OaK-
leigh win makes him liable tor a
penalty of up to 101 b.; he was
originally handicapped at o.y.
At the time of writing it had not
been decided if San Domenico would
tackle the Futurity. In that race
he would be facing a mighty task;
his various wins have, including a last
straw of 21b. for the Oakleigh,
brought him the full 201 b. penalty.
Penalty clauses for the Futurity are
a weird hotch-potch, and it seems a
tall order that San Domenico, having
but his ninth run, should, with 9.9,
be asked to carry more than such
past three-year-old winners as Ajax
(9.6), Gold Rod (9.4), Ammon Ra
(9.3) and Mollison (9.3). If San
Domenico does start in and win the
Futurity with a 201 b. penalty, he
will have achieved what such a good
horse as Heroic found beyond him,
and he would look unbeatable in the
Newmarket. *
With the seven runners including
Carbon Copy, Comic Court, Clement
and Cronides, the nine-furlongs St.
George Stakes must have been some-
thing of a tongue-twisting nightmare
for the course broadcaster. However,
he had really to worry only about
the Derby-winners Comic Court and
Carbon Copy, which staged another
grand duel. Comic Court had come
out on top in their last previous
clash, but on Saturday, with the early
pace very slow, Purtell was obliged
to take Comic Court to the front
three furlongs from home, and, given
thus the run on his opponent, Carbon
Copy was able to turn the tables in
a desperate finish. Only a short half-
head in. it, with Clement a distant
third and Russia, making a reappear-
ance after a season at stud, an equally
distant fourth. A fine race, and the
St. Leger, to be run at Flemington
on Saturday week, should be a
thriller.
The current Australian Cup favorite
Royal Pageant (A. Breasley) ran a
sound Cup trial by winning the 12-
furlongs Bond Handicap in the
smartish time of 2.30, Sydney visitor
New Cashmere also took the eye,
finishing second, beaten a length, after
running greenly. Close behind New
Cashmere were Dhutia and Dashing
Beau. Bolivia, present observer’s
fancy for the Cup, ran a thoroughly
uninspiring race, but may prove a
very different proposition over the
much longer journey of the Cup.
San Domenico and Bolivia are sug-
gested for the double.
* * * *
Experiencing a run of exasperat-
ingly stiff luck, jockey J. Thompson
shaped up to riding at Canterbury on
Saturday with a string of 23 con-
secutive losers behind him. It was
reported in a Saturday morning paper
that “A punter yesterday laid £2OO to
£lOO on that J. Thompson would
ride a winner at Canterbury today.”
This page is prepared to believe im-
plicitly in fairies, elves, gnomes,
leprechauns and even Mr. Dedman’s
bete noire, Santa Claus, but we draw
the line of credence somewhere con-
siderably this side of bookmakers
prepared to bet odds of 1 to 2 that
a rider of Thompson’s class wilFnot
win on any of seven well-fancied
mounts in an afternoon’s racing, par-
ticularly when one of them alone is
a 7-to-4-on proposition.
The figmental punter, at any rate,
was not kept long in suspense. With
nothing much to beat, Thompson
won the first race comfortably on
the Golden Sovereign filly Dowager,
starting at 7 to 4 on and beating
Mountain Lady, Miss Moya and
other two - year - olds. Thereafter
Thompson again struck bad luck,
capped by a nasty fall in the second
Ashbury Mixed. Four horses came
down, but fortunately no serious
damage was done; jockey G. Pod-
more had a collarbone broken, and
Thompson’s mount, Shannon Rise, is
unlikely to race again. The 66-to-l
chance Parlona won the race, just
pipping the favorite, Spanish Duke,
and completing a double for young
apprentice R. Pearse, who earlier won
the first Ashbury Mixed on the
favorite, Darelle.
As a guide to form, the six-furlongs
Flying Handicap should probably be
ignored. The strongly fancied pair
Mine Host and Heroic Sovereign
were left hopelessly at the start,
together with Grey Nurse. Mine
“If it gets any worse Well have to chuck it.”
Host did remarkably well to finish
fourth behind Trover (R. Selkng),
Persist and Verbage.
, , • F •
The S.T.C. recently introduced, or
rather reintroduced, to Sydney racing
a claiming event. There was another
on Saturday’s card —a 7|-furlongs
Novice Claiming race. Golden Rust
(£1050) won the event from Bold
Archer (£1250) and Frolicsome (£750),
but there were no claimants. Claim-
ing races are very popular in England
and America, and, given a fair trial,
may take on here.
The only surprising feature of
Foxzami’s easy win in the nine-
furlongs Burwood Mixed was that the
Nizami colt, as a placegetter in both
Derbies, should have been allowed to
start at 2 to 1 in such a race. It is
intended to take Foxzami to Mel-
bourne for the St. Leger, and he
could easily give the southern colts
a fright, Foxzami was runner-up to
Comic Court in the Victoria Derby
and was beaten about a half-head
by Carbon Copy and Vagabond in
the A.J.C. classic.
In other events at Canterbury, New-
castle galloper Wearie (E. Ross)
belied his name by energetically de-
feating Silver Buzz in the Canterbury
Park Handicap (Ilf.), and favorite
Lone Duke (N. Sellwbod) won the
nine-furlongs Welter.
* # * ♦
For Moorefield (before accept-
eiiccs) * ——>
Maiden (fillies): Starlet, 1; Flash
Back, 2; Mountain Lady, 3. Maiden
(colts and geldings): Dark Sovereign,
1; Trader, 2; Big Boy, 3. Sandring-
ham Mixed (8f.): Irish Footprints,
1; Golden Rust, 2; Furdan, 3.
Rockdale Mixed (10f.): Conviviality,
1; Arabian Prince, 2; Joan Dale, 3.
Moorefield Handicap: Grey Nurse,
1; Lucky Escape, 2; Kardella, 3.
Flying: Septet, 1; Skip Court, 2;
Trover, 3. Welter; Sweet Tonic, 1;
Persian Prince, 2; Zipper, 3.
* * * ♦
In assessing the last Davis Cup
tour as a dead loss financially, the
Australian L.T.A. evidently over-
looked such newfangled intrusions
as broadcasting and television. In
the U.S. they pay hard cash for
broadcasting rights, and last week
the A.L.T.A. found itself landed with
a totally unexpected divvy of £7OO.
Victoria’s 19-year-old swimmer
John Marshall had a hectic and ver-
satile round of successes in the Aus-
tralian Championships at Valley
Baths, Brisbane, last week. On Mon-
day he won the 400 metres in smin.
17.95ec., on Thursday the 1500
metres in 18min. 35.35ec., and on
Saturday landed the 100 metres m
60.3 sec. and 800 metres in lOmin.
18.8 sec. As he had gathered the
200-metres title the previous week,
Marshall equalled Frank (“Bogey’)
Beaurepaire’s record of cleaning up
all the National freestyle titles in one
season.
In the women’s swimming events
Marjorie McQuade, another Vic-
torian, bagged three titles —100 metres
in 69.95ec., 200 metres in 2min.
35sec. and junior 100 metres in
71.5 sec. Not too dusty for a 14-
year-old.
X! ♦ * *
Except that “possibles” were on
trial for a trip with the Australian
XI to S’Africa, the Oldfield-Kippax
testimonial at Sydney Cricket Ground
could well have been mistaken for a
valedictory to S’Don Bradman.
Superfluous moisture delayed the start
till after lunch on Friday, when,
winning the toss, Hassett chose to
have been shot at dawn if
he’d chosen otherwise.
Saturday saw a bumper crowd
(41,575) attracted by glorious weather
and the certainty of Bradman batting.
Bassett’s men, having held the fort
nobly, removed themselves quick-
smart, leaving 204 on the board.
Morris’s XI got off to a flying start
with 111 for the first wicket when
the skipper, maybe judging the time
ripe for “Enter knight, carrying bat,
was out after an excellent 66 in
94min. Then of course came Brad-
man, and, startling seven bells out or
sparrows, pigeons and other habitues
of the Members’ Stand, cheers rocked
the ground. Don smacked the first
ball away for two and settled down
to give the crowd an hour s delignt
until he was dismissed at 53 by a
brilliant catch which Ken Meuleman,
perpetrator of the outrage, must be
mourning yet.
Thereafter Hamence (23), Archer
(12), I. Johnson (4 n. 0.) and Moroney
(128 n. 0.) carried the tally to 294 for
four wickets at stumps. Opener
Moroney’s slowness riled the crowd
somewhat, but in him selectors appear
to have the solid backbone of a
batting side.
With the; Sheffield Shield safely in
the keeping of N.S.W., the second-
last match ol ilie series, Queensland v.
South Australia, in Brisbane, had no
bearing on proceedings, and players
for once let down their cranial adorn-
ment and played the game as they
ought to play it all the way through—
if "gate-raone? means anything to
them.
When the Northerners led 335 to
177 on the first “dig” and S.A. had
seven down for 195 in their second
lash, it looked all over bar the trip
home. Then tail-enders Gil Langley
and A. McLean were seized with the
madness, and, tearing the bowling to
shreds, added 141 for the eighth
wicket. McLean went at 42, but
Langley (141) was still there when
the innings closed at 386. Langley’s
effort was the best yet made by a
South Australian wicketkeeper m
Shield cricket, and the best by any
’keeper in the current series.
Needing 23d runs in 133 minutes
the Northerners used the long handle
Brown (77) and W. Morris (108) biffed
185 in 102 minutes for the first
wicket and L. Johnson (33 n. 0.) was
hitting ’em hard when the game
finished with 18 minutes to spare—
a win by seven wickets and the finest
of the season.
* * * *
That most reliable of players, Sun-
dries, put the Garden Vale batsmen
to shame in a recent Victorian junior
match, by scoring the only run (a
leg-bye) of the innings. Although not
a rarity for nil to go in the record-
book, it isn’t often that the twelfth
batsman gets all the limelight.
* * * *
The best fhlits seen at Leichhardt
last week were u couple which broke
out in the bleachers after the official
scrap, George Kapeen (9.12) v, Leo
Heaney (9.131), had ended with
' Kapeen the winner on a foul. In
the bleachers, a gent, sporting a
mauve tie was winning hands down
when the constabulary intervened.


Backache ?
Rheumatism ?
Joint Pains?
I m
wm
-
m
v#i
H»>«1
1
Give your kidneys a chance to
clean out that excess uric acid that
collects in the system and causes
such aches and pains in back and
joints.
You can help eliminate the cause
of these troubles by taking a
course of Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
Gentle, safe and sure in action, they
assist the kidneys in functioning
normally and filtering out impuri-
ties that clog and poison the system.
Thousands say that they are
grateful for the help Dr. Sheldon’s
Gin Pills have given them.
Get a bottle now, 27 Pills 2/-;
60 Pills 3/-.
Sold in Queensland as Dr. Sheldon’s
Kidney Pills.
Dr. Sheldon’s
FOB THE KIDNEYS
'
grass,
m
\
90** mi
m
A
NS
Y//.1. .
ANOTHER DEPENDABLE TOP DOG product
Q
THE BRAND WITH A PEDIGREE
IS)
>
<
IS)
■H
£
ENGINE
REBORE
NEW
RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-MHTAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL Treatment
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s phis
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address .«.»»»
B.
BRISTOL TRADINGS COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House _ -
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA. 7i5«.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of poem “The Outlaw of
Glen 1dy11.”—4572.
To buy in good order, glass fruit
fly traps. State price.—4573.
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter and The Bulletin Book of
Humorous Recitations. —4576.
To buy books by Steele Rudd and
Henry Kendall. —4574.
To buy illustrated catalogue of
exhibition of original Bulletin pic-
tures held at Upper Athenaeum Hall,
Melbourne, August, 1910.—4575.
To buy Dynasty of Death by
Taylor Caldwell, Four Winds of
Love by Compton Mackenzie (vol.
5 only), Wax Fruit, Return to Jalna
by Mazo de la Roche, Shannon’s
Way by A. J. Cronin, Shakspearean
Tragedy by A. C. Bradley, Man the
Unknown by Alexis Carrel, Australian
Poets (edited by George Mackaness)
and children’s books. —4577.
Information Sought.
[ Details of prize offered by Arthur
J. Grenfeld, an Australian member of
the United Nations Secretariat in
New York, for essay on “How I Can
Help World Peace and jor Help
United Nations Become More Effec-
tive” ?
The competition is open to every-
body. There are no conditions of
entry, except that essays should be of
at least 1000 words, and preferably
typewritten double-spaced. There is
no entry fee. The prizes are £l5
first, £lO second and £5 third. Clos-
ing date of competition is March 14,
1949, and entries should be sent to
A. J. Grenfeld, 5 State-street, Vic-
toria Park (W.A.).
* * * *
(1) Did Dave Smith ever fight
Billy Papke? (2) Was Papke ever
world’s middleweight champion ? (3)
Is Smith still alive?
(1) Dave Smith beat Billy Papke
on a foul (round 10) at Sydney
Stadium in 1910. (2) Papke k.o.’d
Stanley Ketchel (round 12) at Los
Angeles on September 7, 1908, and
won world’s middleweight champion-
ship, but Ketchel regained title by
knocking out Papke (round 11) at
San Francisco on November 26, 1908.
(3) Smith died at Mosman (N.S.W.)
on May 29, 1945.
* * ♦ ♦
(1) Details concerning the cater-
pillar that attacks white-cedar trees?
(2) How to control the insect ?
(1) The adult white-cedar cater-
pillar (Lymantria reducfa ) is a brown-
ish-buff colored moth with a wing-
spread of from 2 to 2$ inches. The
females lay their eggs in clusters on
the underside of the leaves. These
eggs s hatch to give rise to grubs
which feed on the leaves, eating small
scallops in the leaf edges. They re-
main on the tree, day and night, for
a few weeks, then as a colony move
off the tree at dawn and back on to
the tree after dark. They grow to
large brown hairy grubs, about 1£
inches long, which are voracious
feeders. (2) Control can be obtained
by spraying the foliage of the trees
with arsenate of lead. If this is not
desired a 0.2 per cent. D.D.T. spray
may be used. This is most effective
against the smaller caterpillars. Bands
of very adhesive material around the
trunks should prevent the grubs from
crawling up the trees at night and
possibly a 0.5 per cent, solution of
D.D.T. sprayed on the trunks and
main limbs (not on the foliage) will
also be effective in checking them.
Any near-by sheltering-places for the
grubs should, if possible, be removed.
* * * *
Details concerning Dan Creedon,
Australian middleweight boxer?
Born in Invercargill, N.Z., on June
9, 1868, hb' died in Melbourne on
July 10, 1942. He began boxing in
1891, and beat Tut Ryan for the
Australian middleweight champion-
ship that year. Creedon went to
U.S.A. in 1893, and met many lead-
ing boxers there, among them being
Bob Fitzsimmons, Kid McCoy, Joe
Walcott, Frank Craig, Joe Choynski
and Marvin Hart. He returned to
Australia and had last contest with
Bill Smith at Sydney in 1906,
* * * *
Were passengers ever carried free
on Cobb and Cot's coaches?
Yes, on the route between Went-
worth and Adelaide, after Cobb and
Co. had beaten Crick (father of the
political W. P. Crick) for the mail
contracts. Competition for freight
was keen and. both lines carried pas-
sengers free. Then Crick went fur-
ther and provided free meals and
drinks at- every mail-change. Cobb
and Co. withdrew, but came back
again after Crick himself gave up,
aaving found himself unpopular
when he withdrew his concessions.
• * * *
How can scenery and stage curtains
be rendered fireproof?
Treat with 4 parts borax, 4 parts
potash to 100 parts of boiling water;
stir in 100 parts silicate of soda.
Keep hot until all is dissolved, then
add enough working glue size to
bind it and, thin with a little water.
Break up enough whiting in it to
ender it opaque and use the same as
ordinary priming. Set pieces should
ae coated on both sides, including
he frame.
* * ♦ *
Conditions governing dispatch of
gift food-parcels to Germany ?
A limited gift parcel post service
is available to the whole of Germany.
Contents of parcels are restricted to
essential relief items consisting of
non-perishable foodstuffs, clothing,
soap and medicines. No writing or
printed matter may be enclosed.
Only one parcel may be sent each
week from the same sender to the
same addressee. A Customs declara-
tion (Form P.P.9) must be attached
to each parcel, and both declaration
and parcel marked “Gift.” Parcels
are subject to censorship in Germany.
Rates Of postage are; ( a ) To Ameri-
can, British and French Zones (ex-
cluding Berlin) up to 31b., 4s. Id.;
3-71 b., 6s. 2d.; 7-lllb., 9s. 2d.; and
( b ) to Berlin and Russian Zone up
to 31b., 4s. 7d.; 3-71 b., 6s. 7d.;
7-111 b. 9s. 6d.
* * * ♦
Is there any way of sealing a
strongroom door against damage from
flood ?
For a strongroom door to be
absolutely watertight, it must be con-
structed originally with that objective
in view. This involves the fitting of
a watertight gasket around the frame
of the door against which the door
must be clenched by either the action
of clenching mechanism or wedge
handles. Watertight escutcheons must
also be fitted over the keyholes.
Temporary watertightness could be
obtained in the event of the approach
of a flood by caulking the joint be-
tween the door and the frame with a
mastic putty (Pabco product) and
covering the keyholes with waterproof
material stuck to the face of the
door. A heavy coating of grease
applied to the bolt-operating handle
would also prevent the water from
seeping into the door mechanism at
this point.
* * * *
My maidenhair ferns (in pots ) are
being attacked by a pest which seems
to eat the stems of the fern. What
treatment is advised?
Stand pots in a basin of water to
note whether ground lice, slaters or
ants are causing the trouble. For the
lice, sprinkle naphthalene about the
roots; baits made from arsenate of
lead (one part) and blood-and-bone
fertiliser (six parts) will clean up
slaters and ants.
* * * *
When should poinsettias be pruned
in a light-soil area ? How to propa-
gate cuttings? .
Prune towards the end of August
before the spring growth breaks. Cut
well back to three notches or “eyes”
on the limbs, leaving not more than
9in. of the old wood. About one
month later give a heavy dressing of
rotted manure and water. Dry short
cuttings .for a week in the sun and
then plant in pots or a semi-shaded
corner. They will be ready for the
open garden in the next year.
Brief Answers.
0.K.P.5.: Liability to income-tax
will depend on whether you are re-
garded as a “resident” or “non-
resident” of Australia within the
meaning of Section 6 of the Income
Tax Assessment Act, 1936/1948. A
resident of Australia is subject to
income-tax on income derived from
all sources. A non-resident is sub-
ject to income-tax on income derived
from Australian sources only. If
you can show that you are merely
a visitor to this country you will not
be regarded as a resident within the
meaning of the Act... .D.A.C.: Write
Director, Technological Museum,
Harris-street, Sydney... .5.0.: Vic
Patrick and Hockey Bennell fought
for the Australian welterweight
championship at Sydney Stadium on
September 4, 1943. Patrick stopped
Bennell in round seven, Bennell re-
tiring because of an injured arm
A.H.S.: The tenant is responsible
for the cost of excess water used
for gardening A.E.S.: (1) Neville
Cayley, care Angus and Robertson,
Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-street, Sydney.
(2) Will answer later. (3) Name has
not been revealed by his publishers.
(4) Basil Kingsley Martin, editor of
“New Statesman and Nation” since
1931, was bom in 1897 and is the
son of a Unitarian Minister. He was
educated at Cambridge, was a lecturer
in political science at the London
School of Economics and was for
four years on the editorial staff of
the Manchester “Guardian” J.G.:
The line is from Will Ogilvie’s “The
Australian” M.AJ.: Ethel M.
Dell is the pseudonym of Mrs. Gerald
Savage 0.G.5.: “La Casa de Ven-
tura” is Spanish for “The House of
Good Fortune” J.S.G.: Owners of
the stations are North Australian
Pastoral Co. (Alexandra), Gulf Cattle
Co. (Brunette Downs), Estate C. H.
Schmidt (Alroy Downs), Northern
Territory Pastoral Co. (Rockhampton
Downs) and Peel River Land and
Mineral Co. (Avon Downs) 8.H.:
(1) Depends upon the rules governing
election to the committee. Rules of
most societies provide that members
shall be financial before they are
permitted to participate in the activi-
ties of the society. (2) It would not
invalidate the proceedings. (3) There
are a number of authoritative books
on the subject available at leading
booksellers A.D.: Eve Langley
wrote The Peapickers, a novel. Her
poems have appeared in newspapers
but not in book form. She was bora
in N.S.W. and has lived in N.Z. for
the last 15 years... .J.R.8.: If the
book is in fair condition it should
be worth about 30s R.McP.:
Write G. F. Dampney, Walworth-
avenue, Newport Beach (N.S.W.)
A.W.M.: Write to the Consul for
Portugal, 18a Musgrave-street, Mos-
man (N.5.W.)... .RJ.McK.: Freddie
Mills is now world’s light-heavyweight
champion. He won the title by out-
pointing Gus Lesnevich in 15 rounds
at London Harringay Stadium on
July 26, 1948 0.P.: Coke and coal
ashes —which are mostly carbon —have
no growing value in the garden, but
are useful as a trench-base in sandy
areas to hold moisture. Wood-ashes
are rich in potash and beneficial to
vegetables, flowers and lawn top-
dressing. To maintain their properties
store them in a dry place until used.


unhooked the tractor, and then there was
great consternation among the horses and
broken harness.
The horses hadn’t enough work to
quieten them; only the first tug on the
scoop was difficult. Rizzio kept at them
patiently, but as soon as he cured them
of jibbing they jerked, and as soon as he
got them out of trotting they wouldn’t
start. But he persisted hopefully.
He was the only one who wasn’t tired,
bored and ill-tempered ; although he had
twice as much trouble as anyone else, got
four times as much dust and had to
struggle on foot back and forward behind
the team all day. He watched the scoop
eagerly each time it emerged from the
water; if it was piled high with silt his
face beamed with smiles, but if the haul
was unsuccessful he looked intensely dis-
appointed.
Alex knew that without Rizzio’s un-
flagging spirit it would have been impos-
sible to carry on, and his heart warmed to
the simple, ugly fellow.
But with his compatriots Rizzio was be-
coming correspondingly unpopular. They
moved away when he approached, and
refrained from answering when he spoke
to them. But they always kept a wary
eye on him, because he was known among
the prisoners as a desperate character ;
one of those temperamental, passionate,
murderous Southerners.
Every, day Maringoni asked Alex,
“Quanti days finish?”
And every day Alex answered quite
honestly, “Two, tre days.” Because with
silt-scooping it was quite impossible to
tell how long it would take, the silt being
invisible and of constantly changing con-
sistency.
Each day Maringoni received the
answer with less grace, and each day
Alex pursued the remaining mud more
zealously, because, once he had started a
job he took no end of pains to finish it
well. Sometimes the scoop came out
empty repeatedly, and Maringoni said
eagerly, “Adesso finish.”
But then Alex would try a new
manoeuvre, such as hauling the scoop
diagonally across the dam, and strike a
rich yielding field for operation.
The weather got more trying, becoming
so unbearably sultry that the horses
frothed and sweated profusely, and
Maringoni tottered about hopelessly as if
he was sure that he would never see Italy
again. But Alex suspected that a thunder-
storm was imminent, and worked harder
to get the dam cleaned out before the rain.
AT last the day came when he knew
that they would finish that afternoon,
but he was too annoyed with Maringoni
to tell him. Then Veracini carelessly
started hauling the scoop with a jerk, and
broke the cable right at the water’s edge.
Alex was so disgusted that he, momen-
tarily, considered calling the job finished
then and there. But Maringoni, looking
woefully at the broken end sliding down
under the water, said defiantly:
“No posseebile reparare, water troppo
sporca.”
Alex was thinking, too, that to retrieve
the broken end would be most difficult,
unpleasant and possibly dangerous, be-
cause the scoop had cut the edge away
steeply, and one step into the water might
send a man plunging under the black,
evil-smelling semi-fluid mess. He was
still contemplating whether it was a fair
thing to order Maringoni to try (and
wondering what he would do if he re-
fused) when Rizzio began to shout across
the dam abusively at Maringoni for being
“troppo timora.”
Being at a safe distance, and having
the padrone beside him, Maringoni was
not “too timid” to shout back angrily at
Rizzio. Apparently he dared Rizzio to
do it himself, because presently Rizzio
dropped the horses’ reins (after an uneasy
look around because the stinging March
flies were about) and came running round.
He plunged into the dam, boots,
trousers and all, and soon found the cable.
He was just hauling it out when it un-
accountably began to drag him into the
dam. It took him only a second to
realise that his horses had started, and,
fouling the hook at the end of the cable,
were moving off with the scoop. He
leapt out and raced wildly round the dam.
The horses broke into a trot, suddenly
turning at right-angles when one of them
stepped on the reins.
Rizzio raced harder as they became
more alarmed and increased their pace.
Recklessly he ran across the bight of the
now-slack cable, but the horses turned
again, and the cable began to hiss across
the ground as it tightened and
straightened.
He saw it coming but jumped too late.
It swept his legs from under him, turned
him completely over in the air and he
landed heavily on one knee. He got up
and attempted to run again, but his leg
collapsed and he lay writhing in pain.
The horses continued merrily on. They
lugged the scoop out of the dam, up a
steep slope, across a hundred-acre pad-
dock, trailing the tractor’s broken cable
ridiculously behind. There the scoop
fouled a tree, the harness snapped to
pieces and the scoop rested on top of the
hill, looking absurdly out of place.
ALEX ran to Rizzio, with the other
prisoners following unenthusiastically
behind, both obviously expecting that
someone was going to get into serious
trouble, and hoping it would be Rizzio.
Rizzio’s knee was badly bruised and
swelling quickly. Alex thought it might
prove serious, as knee injuries are apt to.
But the other men were scornful.
“Niente,” they said.
Alex was annoyed with them, and felt
horribly frustrated because he wasn’t able
to shame them by reminding them that
every time they had a mere scratch they
didn’t say “Nothing,” but loudly de-
manded medical attention, making a
great fuss about possible “infeczione” and
expecting a couple of days off to recover.
Rizzio hugged his knee and rocked
backward and forward, muttering
ferociously about his favorite saint. But
he would not be helped to his room.
“In fi minutes, work,” he asserted.
Alex sent the others to catch the horses,
but despite Maringoni’s avowed athletic
performances he made only one half-
hearted pass at them in a corner, then
gave up, discouraged.
Rizzio snarled contemptuously at him
and tried to run after them himself. But
Alex soon stopped him when he saw how
badly he was limping. He had another
look at his knee and was alarmed to
discover that it was now so swollen that
they could hardly pull the trousers-leg
over it. He took him to the p.-0.-w.
control-centre immediately,
THE medical officer regarded the injury
very seriously, and ordered Rizzio
back to the base camp at Cowra. Once
there, Alex knew that he would be
swallowed up in the military machine,
and that he would never see him again.
But Rizzio was sure he would “returno
presto,” and begged Alex to keep his
place for him.
Alex lingered for several hours in the
town, though he got no pleasure in think-
ing of his other men having a great loaf
at Rizzio’s expense. He had a few drinks
with a couple of friends, but felt no better.
When he arrived at home, Maringoni
and Veracini were waiting out in the
blazing sun. Eagerly they asked of
Rizzio, and professed the profoundest
sympathy; but they shot sly, congratu-
latory glances at each other. Then
Maringoni stepped forward, bright and
willing.
“Today work siltascoop?” he asked.
“Me horses, Veracini trattore; very
good resultare!”
But Alex took one look at Maringoni
and imagined what the horses would do
to him.
“No more silt-scoop,” he said; “dam
finish.”
Then Maringoni and Veracini looked as
if their happiness was complete.
“Do you take ghost stories ?”
“It’s the Dawes boys going home from
a dance,” said Lai, waddling across to
the window.
Vinia was already peeping out from
behind the curtain. “Across the pad-
docks?”
“Young Russ there will be riding,” Lai
Harnbee chuckled. “The young imp.
There’s nothing he likes better than to
go splashing through the stream on that
old boneshaker of his. Reckons it’s a
short-cut home.”
A motor-bike and sidecar stood a short
distance away. Its headlight cut into a
gorse hedge and pinus shelter-belt and
gave the impression that it was parked
on the edge of a forest. Beside it a
youth’s silhouetted figure was discernible,
rocking unsteadily and pointing towards
the house.
“We know you’re in there, Marty
Goorland,” he called,
Vinia gasped. “Ooh.”
“They don’t mean any harm,” Lai
observed. She was soothing itchy spots,
gripping her sides and twisting about
inside her nightgown. “Tilly, my old
cow, puts on a turn for them, and don’t
they think it’s Christmas.”
The saxophone-player was crouching
low in the sidecar, tootling softly.
“Give us some real bull music,” de-
manded another voice.
Vinia was nettled by the older woman’s
calm acceptance of the disturbance. She
wondered how many of the scoundrels
there were.
WHOOPS of delight arose as a brindle
cow, rearing out of the darkness,
began to caper excitedly round its tor-
mentors. Head tossing, it propped and
kicked out with its hind-legs.
“Tilly’s lonely,” yelled one of the revel-
lers. “See her, Marty? Dancing with
tears in her eyes.”
“Give us some Xersey-bull music,”
called another.
The musician of the party stopped
playing. “What d’ye think you’ve been
getting?”
“Sounded a bit like Shorthorn.”
“Prize Jersey,” announced the saxo-
phone player, shamming pique. There
was no comment, and so he began to
play again.
“Why don’t you bring your bull with
you, Marty?” came a challenge. “Share
and’ share alike,”
The brindle cow was encouraged by
shouts and handclaps.
Shocked and fascinated, Vinia was
watching its antics. She was thoroughly
provoked by another sally of disgraceful
allusion,
“I’m going out to them. I am !
' Lai Harnbee restrained her with the
observation, made rather wistfully, “We
were all a bit high-spirited in our day.
They’ll soon be gone.”
Tilly gave a last toss of her head as
she charged through the headlight and
went swerving away into the darkness.
“All right for you, Marty,” came
another call from outside, “Tilly wants
company too. And if you weren’t such
a selfish old coot you’d bring your bull
with you.”
This thrust brought renewed laughter.
The lowing of the saxophone had
stopped, and amid a finale of ribald
mumbling and guffawing the engine
coughed into action. The revellers settled
themselves aboard their quivering rattle-
trap and were soon jolting home across
the paddocks.
tt'T'HEY shut every gate.” Lai Harn-
-1 bee watched their progress ap-
provingly.
Vinia exploded. “Oh, it’s—l don t
know —it’s oatreegious! Weecked and
oatreegious! ”
“If they left my gates open I’d soon
put a stop to it.”
“Eenformation should be leed,” Vinia
declared, calling up her father’s favorite
threat.
“Oho, ho.” Lai slapped out playfully,
but her offended guest had scurried out
of range, whipping through between the
big wardrobe and the bedstead as nimbly
as a stoat.
Her legs outstretched again along the
cold sheet, she lay brooding over the
night’s violation. In her vexation a
parade of nagging doubts assembled and
passed through her mind, and the rank-
ling shame of being Herb Fea’s daughter
assailed her.
Reckoning the worth of Harnbee’s as
a refuge, she despaired of a life without
it. And the sanctity of Harnbee’s had
been imperilled.
She set up as a butt for her resentment
an illusory Lai Harnbee —an artless, per-
secuted innocent —to whose protection
she dedicated herself. By this device she
could enlist public opinion to validate
her Harnbee’s retreat. She fell asleep,
comforted by this self-righteous pretence.
BUT somehow, when morning had
come and she was following Lai
Harnbee’s lumbering bulk down the yard,
she recalled Lai’s disrespect and her re-
solve faltered.
“You got your egg all right?” asked
Lai.
“Yes, I got my egg.”
Lai put down a bucket of mash and
picked up a half-bucket of sprouted
potatoes. “I left the frying-pan ready
for you.”
“Yes, I got it.”
“Your egg was all right then?”
“I quite enjoyed my egg, thank you,”
was Vinia’s starchy assurance, *
Lai rid herself of her bucket and then
put her shoulder down to the yard gate,
straining like one of her cows rubbing
against a stump.
“Thank you very much,” said Vinia.
“Oho! ” Lai chuckled foolishly. “Open-
ing this old gate’s no trouble when you
get used to it.”
“I was thanking you for the week-
end.”
“Oho, that was no trouble either. I
thought you’d have stayed till tonight.
But come back when you’re doin’ more
poitry.”
A curt farewell, and then Vinia made
towards the stream. Seeing Lai’s cows
coming up the paddock to meet her —the
brindle and a perplexed, frowning black-
and-white —she dropped her suitcase over
the fence and wriggled under the bottom
wire into a paddock of coiled hay.
Church-bells were chiming over the town-
ship, beating against the hum of a mono-
plane that glinted silver high up in the
clear, sunny sky. The soporific mustiness
of the hay was settling heavy round her
as she made her way between the coils.
She came to the stream and wriggled
back under the fence.
TYRE-tracks emerging from the water
roused her anger. She was crossing
the “wire” —a fence-style footbridge —
when she saw them. Evidence of the
outrage at Harnbee’s, they were plainly
visible. Almost at the same time she was
aware of a beefy, red-faced man who
was standing in the shade of a gravel-
heap and watching her slide across,
“Ho, there!” he called cheerily,
It was Sergeant Leaney, taking home
his meat.
She crossed quickly and brushed
through the brooms to the gravel dump.
Then it was that she had told her
story and been disposed of so diplomati-
cally, sent off arguing a case for her father
as she returned home through the Sunday
quiet of the township.
A S she unlatched the front gate, she
/\ was a mood to overlook much in
t he face of her father’s expected peni-
tence.
“S’down? Askim! S’down?”
a bellowing from the roof startled her.
Up there, braced against a chimney,
from which an end of rope trickled, a
bilious-looking man was flourishing his
woolly hat expressively.
she scurried fearfully round the house.
“Askim! S’down?”
At the back door, a black bounding
apparition flew out past her, speaking
her name and leering with teeth horribly
white.
“Pull ’er up! Pull er up! he cried
from the yard, in Herb Fea s cracked
voice. For old Herb it was. At a signal
from the woolly hat he came darting
back. As, soot-covered, he worked his
from ' the flreplace> he looked to her
like something struggling to regain its
chimney haun *
g be wa p cec i through to her bedroom,
nQt daring tQ think The smeU of soo t
was i n her n ose and she tasted soot on
ber jjp S . she fell across her bed and
p rayed>
she p ra y ed for the vindication of
Harnbee’s, and then carried her pleading
j n^o tb e s tj- ee t ;
» > _ weecked and oatreegious . . .**
L_f ER impassioned reciting lasted until
1 1 the day Sergeant Leaney waylaid
her to explain, with bold hooting and
brows twitching rakishly, that Harnbee’s
gates had at last been left open, with the
upshot that Goorland’s bull had been
brought and had wrought panic among
the serenaders of Lai’s brindle cow.
Some sense of the farcical, though, had
been newly tapped and, with something
of the sergeant’s drollery, she can giggle,
“Mr. Goorland did bring his bull.”
And happily for Vinia, this is a vista
opening dimly on recognition of old Herb
as the demon she recites so strenuously
to deny.


y
Famous British
ENGINES
For immediate delivery contact
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZAGOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
.
u
KEEP YOUR ENGINE
andl*
• GREATER MILEAGE
•PERFECT LUBRICATION
• LONGER ENGINE LIFE
•IMPROVED PERFORMANCE
•QUICKER STARTING
•COMPLETE PROTECTION AT
ALL SPEEDS & TEMPERATURES
M4-7IS
%
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
Mobiloil -THE WORLD'S QUALITY OIL
VACUUM
where the world sees
YOUR WOOL AT ITS BEST
The unrivalled skill of A.M.L.&F. in displaying your wool shows it off to the
best advantage, when the world’s biggest wool buyers Inspect it.
A.M.L.&F. are acknowledged experts in valuing and lotting, too; that’s why
bidding is confident when “the A.M.L.&F. man” is on the rostrum.
Small clip or large, your wool looks its best and sells at its beat in the handa
of A.M.L.&F.
8S Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc, in England in 1863.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 16.22
w
m
Afl
i
mm
* <S^Zi
/Mate
Q
CORRECT tyre pressures mean more
than easier riding. They mean safety,
better control, less wear on tyres.
So check your tyre pressures regularly
with the accurate Kismet Tyre Gauge. . .
and when they need more air do the job
in half the time with a Kismet Foot Pump
or Renrut “Quad” Hand Pump. The
unique two-cylinder Supercharger action
makes every stroke unbelievably easy and
at full volume.
KISMET
afaiciel
mmm
mmm
S**:
Manufactured by
WILLIAM TURNER (Kismet)
LTD., Sheffield, England.
Agent in Australia :
MB. E. G. JONES,
43-49 Hardware St., Melb.,
G.P.O. Box 71.
C. 1.,
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
The Dingo Pest.
“Scot”: In this district, about
50 miles north-west from Injune
towards the head of the
Maranoa, the effect of dingo-
poisoning by aeroplane is still
“in the air,” as far as local
opinions are concerned. On
cattle-lands held as compara-
tively large areas, with few in-
habitants and where the aerial
poison has been dropped, din-
goes have practically disap-
peared, whereas in 1946 mobs
of them could be heard howling
round the station homesteads.
In that drought year poddy-
calves had to be yarded every
night or be found ripped to
pieces in the morning. Calves
up to weaner stage left unpro-
tected on the run were killed in
hundreds by the dingoes. Now
in a 30-mile ride or drive one
is surprised if a dingo, or a
dingo-track, is seen.
Taking the almost complete
disappearance of the dingo from
this locality, one can reasonably
infer that the aerial blitz is re-
sponsible ; on the other hand
stockmen unanimously state that
not one dingo poisoned from
the air has been found. Experi-
enced men are awaiting the
advent of the colder months,
when the mating-season occurs,
and the migration of dogs from
the rough country of the Car-
narvon Ranges occurs. If no
dingoes appear then the aerial
blitz will have to be credited
with a fair share of their de-
struction.
Allowing that poisoning of
dingoes from the air will prove
largely successful, the odd sur-
viving dingoes will have to be
destroyed by hand. In Queens-
land all scalps, parent and pup
dingoes, are paid for at 15s. per
scalp, but when it is considered
that parent dingoes produce an
average of about five pups per
annum worth in all £3 155., there
is every reason to pay more than
30s. for the scalps of the two
parents.
Wire-netting erected previ-
ously to World War II was effec-
tive in controlling dingoes, but
most of those fences are in a
state of disrepair, especially
where landowners find the high
price of cattle more attractive
than the cost and worry of look-
ing after sheep. Previous to the
last war the sheep man was con-
tinually pushing out into mar-
ginal country and erecting dog-
proof netting fences on outer
boundaries, with the result that
the hitherto dog-proof interior
netting fences were allowed to
get out of order.
Now that the outer fences are
also useless as dog-proof bar-
riers, the dingoes have got into
the whole of the enclosed areas
and are hard to destroy..
I have often been surprised at
the apathy of sheepmen to
pariah dogs in bush towns. After
a shower of rain numerous dog-
tracks can be seen in the early
morning, going to sheep-grazing
areas and feturning to the town-
ship. Domestic dogs turned
wild often destroy sheep. Two
things I suggest are a higher
price for dingo scalps, and a
curfew for domestic dogs, with a
heavy penalty for the owner of
a dog not tied up, or out of
control, during the stated hours.
Also destruction of ownerless
dogs.
Treating Struck Sheep.
“R.A.A. Sargent”: The usual
method of dressing fly-strike in
the paddock is hard on the dogs,
especially in rocky or burry
country. With a portable pad-
dock cmtcher a lot of racing
and chasing is cut out. Carry
some “pigging strings” (well-
greased leather bootlaces are
just right), and after gathering
the mob in the usual manner
catch and tie all struck sheep,
call off the dogs and get to work
with the dressing. As the tied
sheep are confined to a small
area, the plant is moved but
little to attend to them. This
method also lends itself to the
“’Oo told y to make alterations to this residence, may I ask?”
use of the brush and bucket for
applying the dressing, which
generally gives better results.
The Ewe and the Lamb.
“Ben Acre”: A ewe with a
young lamb will, at the sight of
a dog, show fight. Dogging
might bluff her and persuade her
to take the lamb into the mob
and travel; or it might stir her
protective instincts and make
her more ready to fight—
usually the latter if the lamb is
not inclined to travel. Then it is
best to pick up the lamb. It is
a matter for experienced discre-
tion how much to force with a
dog.
This protective instinct can be
used to advantage when it is
necessary to drop ewes with
young lambs out of a mob. Call
the dog to heel and, as ewe and
lamb lag behind, walk with the
dog between them and the mob.
The ewe will stand guard over
the lamb and let the mob go
without her. By keeping the dog
about she can be induced to
stay, or she will turn and take
the lamb away. Don’t attempt
to drive her away.
Dog-defying is most com-
mon among old crossbred ewes.
Young ewes, especially Merinos,
are inclined to panic at the sight
>f a dog. With head erect, she
vill run off in a short, half-
defiant step, the lamb following
; f it can. If this happens when
attending lambing ewes get out
of sight as quickly as possible
and let the ewe return to the
lamb. Leave the dog at home
when attending such sheep.
Pig Mange.
“Myrr”: The slightest sign of
it will reduce a pig’s value,
yet a lot of owners never
bother to clean out mange. It
can be readily controlled with a
spray made up as follows: Boil
two quarts of water, two tea-
spoons of washing-soda and loz.
of potassium - sulphurata to-
gether and, while simmering, stir
in a quart of neatsfoot-oil.
Spray on the affected parts and
again a few days later to get the
mites that escaped the first time.
A routine spraying at (say)
three - monthly intervals will
keep the herd clean.
Vic. Pastures.
“Myrrhee”; To reduce cost of
establishment sow the seed under
cover of a cereal crop or com-
bine it into stubble ground after
wheat or oats are harvested. In
areas averaging around 2 Sin.
rainfall, use the following per-
acre rates: Perennial rye-grass
(certified seed), 101 b., and mid-
season sub, clover, 41b. Better-
rainfall districts (30in. or more)
where summer rains are fairly
evenly distributed, are favorable
to Vic. or N.Z. cocksfoot and
N.Z, white clover; these may
be added to the above mixture i
at the rates of 51b. and lib. per
acre respectively.
A sprinkling of strawberry
clover (about ilb. per acre), 21b.
of N.Z, perennial red clover
(cow-grass) and 21b, of Italian
rye will provide good early feed
while the more permanent
grasses are becoming stabilised.
These quick-growing plants need
watching, however, and if they
give signs of overshadowing the
slower-growing perennial rye
and sub.-clover give the pasture
a quick grazing or mowing;
take care not to punish it too
severely.
Oats in Victoria.
“Mr.”: The main oat varieties
are still Algerian and its im-
proved selection, Algeribee, both
late-maturing types renowned
for their ability to produce a
nice plump grain suitable for
mills. Both stool better than
the early types, and are adapt-
able to a wide range of Vic-
torian conditions. In southern
Victoria they recover well after
grazing, and on this account
are favored by dairyfarmers who
sow in the early autumn, graze
until spring and then, if normal
rains are received, cut a good
hay or grain crop.
In the north, particularly the
Mallee, where spring rains often
fail, the earlier-maturing Mulga,
Dawn and Orient are preferred.
They produce more winter feed
■ than Algeribee or Algerian if
sown thickly.
For this year’s sowing the Vic.
Department of Agriculture re-
commends for Wimmera, Mallee
and northern districts (for
general purposes): Algeribee,
Algerian or Dawn. For early
feed and early hay: Dawn and
Mulga (very early). For graz-
ing: Orient, Fulghum. In the
south (general purposes), Algeri-
bee or Algerian, or, if an earlier
variety is required. Dawn. For
spring sowing in very late dis-
tricts, Tartarian (white or black).
Legumes in the Desert.
“0.L.R.”: Owing to work by
the C.5.1.R., the 90-mile desert


Trader Horn
Gimlet Pointed
BITSAW
RIM:;
m§
■l''
CUTS
Wood
Plaster Sheets
Cement Sheets
Three Tools
in one
PRICE
54
(Post Paid)
TOLEDO STEEL CO..
7 Rickard Avenue,
P.O. Box 15, Motman, N.S.W.
£ &'*nA r&
(fe^SS^rL
Um
in
C
uOtg
a
S2-*
$
rOk
as*
' mm
mm
mmi
mmm
via
J> tomtsvnk \
SS
mmrns&mm:
" '• ? *!
S' 'xf®* ,< &J *
vh ’ - %<. 1- - ' ’■ i
: .* '
8 a(l 81?|
told
LEA £. PERRINS
-/amoud Sauce.
INSURANCE —for your protection "
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong.)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £9,000,000. Established 1835.
- N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWB 131 (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL. Manager.
NOW comes
nr
The NEW
all-purpose board with NEW advantages
C.S.R. Hardboard is a scien-
tific product of nature’s own
wood fibres.
Stronger, more versatile,
easy to work, it lends itself to
every artistic home co£ception
and industrial use where a
building board is needed.
Build . . . modernise with
to-day’s Most Beautiful
Building Board .
Modern Home Interiors,
Verandah Sleepouts, Bed-
room Cupboards, Kitchen
Cupboards, Display Counters
and Cases, Furniture, Toys,
Bus Interiors, etc.
CNR
C.S.R. Hardboard
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD., Building Materials Division
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth
in S. Australia, and other large
unproductive areas, may soon
be yielding good crops. Care-
ful tests proved that this soil,
which only gets an annual rain-
fall of 15-20 inches, could be
made to grow large crops *of
lucerne and clover when treated
with superphosphate containing
the “trace elements,” zinc and
copper. Formerly growth has
been meagre and restricted to
small areas, consequently little
development has taken place.
This may create a new attitude
towards Australia’s arid and
semi-desert country, untapped
resources which could be a
tempting bait to migrant settlers.
The Cabbage-thistle.
“E. 2”: It thrives on the rich
pasture land of Victoria’s best
dairying districts, taking full
control if allowed. The soft,
variegated plant attains the bulk
of cabbage, prevents stock from
grazing close to its base with
its* spines and later burns off the
glass by robbing the soil of
moisture. Cows relish it a day
or two after cutting, but it may
prove dangerous to cattle in poor
condition or unused to it. It is
said to make first-class ensilage.
The thistle spreads to fresh
pastures through cattle carrying
the seed, which is too heavy to
be carried far by the wind. The
seed remains viable in the soil
for several years, so that fresh
annual crops may be expected.
Once established, eradication is
a long and tedious process,
which can only be successful
through preventing seeding till
the pest is cleared out. Mowing
and hoeing is satisfactory, if
time is taken to make a thorough
job of it each year.
Once the cabbage-thistle gets
in full control it will kill itself
out for a time, but the ground
is seeded for a fresh lease of life
after a few seasons. Burning
after seeding forces germination,
and a heavy crop will follow,
leaving only a small proportion
of the seed to come again.
Thistle-cutters should avoid con-
tact with the spikes, as they are
liable to cause an irritating rash.
Applying Fertiliser.
“Plane Creek”: There is some
argument as to whether it is
better to fertilise the whole area
before sowing a crop, or to
fertilise only along the actual
drills. Drill-fertilisation is used
in the canefields, and is certainly
effective. The fertiliser is either
distributed along the drills at
time of planting, or is forced
into the topsoil a few inches
from the drill when the crop is
well established. A different
fertiliser is applied to the drills
of ratoon cane, also when the
ratoons are in advanced growth.
Cane-drills are usually spaced
at least 4ft. apart. Vegetable
crops to be horse-cultivated have
to be planted in rows 3ft. apart.
It seems wasteful to use fertiliser
over a whole paddock when the
crop is to grow in rows well
apart. Broadcast crops, of
course, feed off the whole area,
and need broadcast fertilisation.
Drying Stone-fruits.
“Billjim”: Home drying is
simple. Apricots, pears, nec-
tarines and peaches are best
dried in halves with the stones
removed.
Place the fruit on wooden
trays with cut side uppermost.
Drying will be hastened and
color preserved if the fruit is
treated with sulphur, 11b. to 100
cubic ft. of space. Make a
sulphur-box to retain the fumes
and cover the trays of fruit. A
wooden framework covered with
thicknesses ©f paper or malthoid
will serve. After placing the
sulphur in a receptacle ignite it
with live coals. A vent adjacent
to the burning sulphur and an-
other on the opposite side will
provide enough draught to keep
the sulphur burning. When the
hollows of the fruit are filled
with juice but not overflowing
the sulphuring is done. Pears
have sufficient treatment when
the halves are so soft they cannot
be lifted from the trays. Expose
the trays to drying of sun, and
as the halves dry take from trays.
Don’t let moisture of any sort
on to the fruit.
Don’t sulphur plums or
prunes. Dip in a boiling lye of
lib. of caustic soda in about
20gal. of water. This will crack
the skin of the fruit and hurry
the drying. Don’t dip too long.
Place fruit in a wire-basket and
rinse in a copper of clean cold
water. Then spread on trays for
final drying.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrr”: The green peach-
aphis overwinters in the form of
shiny black eggs laid close to
the buds, and egglaying is usually
completed (in Victoria) by the
end of June. An ovicidal spray
of tar-distillate, one in 35, or
D.N.C., one in 40, applied in
July, will kill the eggs, and if a
thorough job be done there’ll be
little need for nicotine sulphate
in the spring.
“Pat O’Day”: When useful
newspaper clippings dealing
with land subjects begin to ac-
cumulate it is time to sort them
out carefully, discard what is
uninteresting or not needed for
reference and paste or write
them into a scrapbook, indexing
them for easy finding when
wanted.
“M.”: To check the cock-
chafer-grub in lawns dust the
grass with lead-arsenate powder,
using ilb, per 100 square feet,
or 51b. per 1000 square feet,
mixed with a bushel of soil
barely moistened. After a day
or two, if no rain has fallen,
give the surface a good hosing to
wash the poison into the soil.
“Agricola”: Cross-bred pigs
are often preferred to pure-breds,
for their hardiness and tendency
to fatten well. However, the best
results are obtained only from a
first cross, the parents being
pure-bred members of two dif-
ferent breeds. Where the sows
used are themselves cross-breds,
much can be done to improve the
quality of the progeny by careful
selection of the boar with a view
to correcting faults in the sow.
Local conditions should be taken
into account when deciding
which breeds to cross.
“Ruwen”: Where the concrete
floor of a milking-shed has
cracked, much can be done to
minimise the danger of germs
lurking in the crevices if the
sodium hypochlorite or other
disinfectant used during milking
is spread over the floor twice
daily as soon as the milking is
finished.
“Sundowner”: A rat-trap is a
simple and effective appliance
for holding a bailed cow’s tail.
Fasten the trap to the leg-rope
post. Lift spring and clip the
tail-switch into the trap.
“C.A.A.”: If trees are being
planted in rabbit areas and can-
not be protected with fences,
spraying the butts with a repel-
lent of sulphonated oil is effec-
tive. Heat linseed oil to 470 deg.
F. (until it is smoking hot), place
outside and add flowers of sul-
phur, one part to nine parts of
oil by weight, making a 10 per
cent, solution. Sift sulphur
slowly into the hot oil and stir.
If thinned with turps it can be
applied with an ordinary
chemical sprayer.
“K.T.”: Cull all “bad doers”
from the dairy herd —those cows
which are always in poorer con-
dition than the rest. Low con-
dition could be from a heavy
flow of milk, if the cow has some
weakness in constitution, but it
also could be disease.
“Volt”: It is important to
cover a concrete floor to make
it damp-proof before installing
electricity, which can leak into
a damp floor and cause shock.
Bituminous felt, in conjunction
with bituminous paint, is a good
non-conductor; a covering of
linoleum over that will stop all
danger. A reliable electrician
sh’ould be employed for instal-
lation and three-point plugs
used, with proper earthing.
“Myrrhee”: For deciduous
fruits apply 21b. of nitrate of
soda per tree just before blos-
soming and another 21b. a
month later. Give citrus-trees
an initial dressing of 21b, per
tree in September, with further
applications at monthly intervals
during the summer, making a
total of 81b. For berry fruits
apply 2cwt. per acre in the
spring, followed by 2cwt. a
month later. Used as a side-
dressing for vegetables after the
plants are eight weeks old, it
produces spectacular results,
particularly with leaf crops:
cabbage, cauliflower, spinach,
silver-beet and lettuce.


dons
TANQUERAY GORDON A 00. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
Sccv*, vwtaJxJr
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer*
lasting. That's why a Globlt®
costs less in the long run.
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
po
w o “perhapBer ’
WA
m
nOO°
TO
o
XJ
T
Vn'
... there's a sure way to get
the things you want
A comfortable borne of your own, a
good start in life for your children,
a secure future for yourself, free from
money worries—that’s what you want,
isn’t it? Everybody does! Some follow
careful plans to make their dreams come
true; others merely hope for the best.
"Perhaps I’ll win a lottery,” they say,
or "Perhaps I’ll make a lucky business
deal.” Perhaps this, perhaps that, or
perhaps something else but nine
times jut of ten these people never get
what they hope for.
Yet it’s so easy to plan for the future
you want, and so easy to carry out your
plans. Saving is the secret. Small sums
saved from your pay regularly every
week soon grow to worthwhile amounts.
Before long, you find yourself with a
substantial fund and you’ve never
missed the small amounts responsible.
One by one you are able to buy the
things you’ve set your heart on. And,
as your saving plan continues, worries
about the future disappear—you can see
real security ahead.
Never has there been a better time to
save than now. Because of shortages and
high prices it’s far better to buy only
what you honestly need, and wait for
everything else—until best quality goods
are again available in plentiful supplies
at better prices.
The sooner you start your savings plan,
the sooner you’ll own the things you
want. Take the first steps this week.
FOR THE THINGS
YOU WANT
Authorised by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth,
SAVE THIS WAY
1. Buy only what you really
need. Avoid luxuries. Get
full value.
2. Buy for cash always.
3. Settle your debts—then pay
your way.
4. Join a National Savings
Group.
5. Build up your Savings Bank
Account,
6. Invest in Commonwealth
Loans.
7. Increase your life assurance.
N 520.113.19
Missing Friends.
BECK.—WILL JANE BECK, formerly of
Mordialloc, in Victoria, or anyone know-
ing her whereabouts, or having any claim
to or interest in property owned by her,
communicate with MESSRS. MACPHER-
SON SMITH & DOBSON, Solicitors, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne.
WILLIAM MORRISON, last heard of in
1931 at State Hospital, Liverpool, N.S.W.
Usual occupation station hand. Any per-
sons knowing whereabouts of above or
with knowledge of his death, please com-
municate with NEIL STEWART & JUST,
Solicitors, Wangaratta, Victoria.
GEORGE REDVERS FRANCE, formerly
of Arcadia. Please communicate with
MESSRS. H. S. W. LAWSON, HUGHES
& Co., Solicitors, 314 Collins Street,
Melbourne. Would any friend advise his
whereabouts ?
TO GLORIA JOYCE WILDENBURG for-
merly of Bellevue Street Temora in the
State of New South Wales but now of
parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your husband REX WILDENBURG has
instituted proceedings for divorce on the
ground of desertion UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the Office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria at Melbourne on or before the
Fourth day of April One thousand nine
hundred and forty-nine the case may pro-
ceed in your absence IF you intend to
defend the suit you must also file an
answer in the said office on or before the
Fourteenth day of April One thousand
nine hundred and forty-nine AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the sealed
copy petition and copy citation in this
suit have been forwarded to you care of
your mother Mrs. Hanks at Bellevue
Street Temora AND THAT the original
can be inspected at the Office oft the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court of Vic-
toria Melbourne.—rJOAJSf ROSANOVE &
LANDAU, 415 Bourke Street, Melbourne,
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
*Mb>M.
Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATI. AS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. V. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PUBLIC
SCHOOL situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the SchooL
Illustrated Prospectus on
, application to the Bursar.
O. A. PISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
BUILD...
with concrete Mocks
Connate block* and brick*
cua tba ideal building
medium when moda on o
'‘Sapid" machine. Tbaaa
machine* will make almost
•vary typa oi brick or block.
HOMES
“Rapid” machines also
make curved block*
>for Silos, Water-tanks,
] etc. Various types ot
Concrete Mixer*
available.
SHEDS
• Six model* ontQabte.
• Hand operated. aan
automatic.
• No ramming—no waUu
for mixture to set
• Capacity 3 blocks per nUa.
0 Priced to suit the indivi-
dual home-builder.
sites
Write lor IBuilrated booldaL poal fra*.
Halt & Pyne Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers ol Concrete Machinery
63a Worre* «d.. Morrlckvllle. H.S.W. LUMI
AMPHIBIOUS FERRETS
By “COL M.”
Mr. Turnbull (Country party,
Vic.) aired the view that the
Government’s present offensive
was only tickling the rabbits
when he spoke on “The Plague”
recently, and he made a pas-
sionate plea for fumigants, traps,
ammunition and, above all, wire-
netting. He then sat down, and
was immediately doused with
cold water by the Minister for
Agriculture, Mr. Pollard, who
said; “If all the wire-netting in
America were imported here it
would not cure the plague.”
No doubt the rabbits are al-
ready nibbling at the grass of
Canberra —one has been re-
ported in a park in King’s Crpss
—so while Mr. Pollard and his
generals continue struggling into
their rabbit-proof armor, they
could do little better than have
read to them part of Gilbert
White’s Natural History of Sel-
bourne, for in that book is cited
a method of thoroughly de-
moralising any rabbit. The
rabbit population of Selbourne
in those days could not assume
the title of “The Plague”—in fact,
they were scarce enough to pro-
mote a stiff clause in the local
poaching laws —but, neverthe-
less, on 3 property mentioned in
the History, someone was pinch-
ing the rabbits. For want of
other suspects the owners
planted themselves to watch a
lame old fisherman who walked
with the aid of a broomstick,
and used to pass their main
warren on his way down to the
river. They saw him look round
to see if he was observed, and
then sit down above the most-
frequented burrow:
He took from his pocket a couple
of the small green crabs so common
on the seashore, and put them into
the hole, and they at once ran down;
soon after up bolted a fine rabbit,
and our infirm friend knocked it
oyer at once with his broomstick and
hid it in a furze bush. He repeated
the trick and soon killed five fine
rabbits.
A correspondent wrote to
White declaring that if a lighted
candle-stub was placed on the
crab’s back, it would become a
far more terrifying engine “and
neither fox, badger nor rabbit
can withstand his fiery torch.”
In case Mr. Pollard is inter-
ested, the small boys fishing on
Sydney’s Kirribilli wharf are
catching a line of very lively
“blue-nippers,”. which, while
gaining good test reactions from
ladies alighting on that wharf,
are otherwise wasting their
talents.
“C”: A spinster, the board-
ing-house owner has been a
mother to us all, and you could
have once graphed her tempera-
ment with a single ruled line.
But from observations made
through my bedroom wall at
seven in the morning since she
has taken to using the radio in
the dining-room as a form of
reveille, I fear that the present
peace of Craigholme will not
remain with us long. Between
seven and seven-ten the radio-
advertisers let their balloon go
up to great effect, and, for those
happy souls who can snore in
comfort until eight, let me show
how the other half lives—the
strange volunteers like the land-
lady, and the conscripts like my-
self —at seven:. —
“...peep-peep-peep.” “Start the day
well with”...“Are your eyes tired?”
...‘“Don’t be a tombstone!’ says
the Road Safety Council”.. .“Two
minutes past seven” ... “Now listen to
th. voice of’’...(This is admittedly
a high note in the show. There is
a strain of music and then an old
Oxonian discussing young ladies and
their stockings. He has a counter-
part later in the programme who
applies, with different music, the same
confidential tone to brassieres)...
“It’s six minutes past”. .. “Remem-
ber, your dentist says”... “Jangled
nerves?”.. .(Here they play a record.
It is followed by some tartan music
and a Scotchman spelling out the
name of a kidney restorer).. .“Eight
minutes past” .. .“The tiniest cuts can
be dangerous”... “Look in the mir-
ror, You’re a pretty little thing 1
know, but look at your throat.
Wrinkles? h-m-m”... “Nine min-
utes past” ... “Been to the zoo
lately?”.. .“There may be robbers in ,
your clothes-cupboard right now.
Moths and silverfish”...“ ‘Don’t be
a statistic,’ says the Road Safety”...
“Ten past seven.’*’
It’s all over —for 23 hours and
50 lovely minutes it’s over.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re con-
tributions voluntarily submitted; and
no MS, will be returned unless stamps
accompany. MS. should be addressed
to the Editor,
FJ.: More than that must happen
if you want to see him in print....
W.A.: Commonplace story of re-
venge with a weak finish... .F.M.F.:
Newchums have been making that
mistake for as long as we can re-
member. ~ .E.H.W.: Might suit a
travel magazine.,. .P.T.: Failed to
live up to the title, “Nine Gallons of
Beer” A.F.R.: Your sentimental
footpad doesn’t strike us as* a lad
who would go bag-snatching J.P.:
Curb that tendency to imitate Damon
Runyan Bellerive: Buzz on: —
L.M.: Your handwriting is a
sheer joy; your story a sore trial....
N.McK.: The dreary asides spoil it.
. ...A.8.D.: Where has your sense
of humor gone? ... .T.N.: Encounter
between philosophic bullocky and
bishop on a bender in a vyayside pub
too improbable A.L.G.: Hide the
next thing you write for a month;
then see if you can’t say all you’ve
said in one-third as many words.
MOSQUITOES.
Encamped near a creek
On a sultry night
.We were sorely assailed
By mosquitoes on flight.
They entered the waggon
And did buzz about
Against the viper’s
We wildly hit out.
They gave us a spell
And did return again
When to our relief
It started to rain.


** TODAY!
ra
*
&
M
m
J** OX
\r**
a
■OUR future is of vital import-
ance to you, but when you get
right down to hard facts it doesn t
matter very much what you read
in your horoscope.
If you want to know about your
future happiness, your Common-
wealth Savings Bank pass-book
will tell your fortune for you. If
it tells you that you are making
deposits regularly every week, then
you can face the years ahead with
confidence and peace of mind.
Save something every pay-day
with an account in the
COMMONWEALTH
Jluk'n&i, BANK
EVERT RANKING FACIUTf
AVAIL A I I E. A I ALL RRANCHIS
COARD
PROTECTA
€Vntl-SiM
ml
Suitable for every »!!>• «»
all Sales. Credits. Payouts et .%S‘ r °^ ly d ? t U '|£
pleasing to appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Ageat»~
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE «
\V a Penfold & Co. Pty Ltd.
# Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
Vardon & Sons Ltd.
FRENCH
Corn Cure
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available at
Anthony Horderns’
If bakes and browns
fa perfection; bails, simmers,
toasts, deep-fries and does
the most glorious grills that
ever came sizzling to fable.
A coke-burning stove that stores vis own
heat, the AGA is ready for instant use day
and night, and its fuel-costs are strictly
controlled ... it has a guaranteed maxi-
mum fuel consumption. Streamlined, and
with sparkling enamel finish, the AGA is
an asset to any kitchen ... a life-long
servant guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
AGA
THE HEAT-STORAGE COOKER
You are invited to see the AGA
in action at our showrooms,
LEVIN AND COMPANY LIMITED
Sole Agent. lor ACA Heat Storage Cooker
.r Kina Street Svdnev . . . 432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
Showroomf Y & Preston Ltd. Currie Street. Adela.de;
Cnr. 'Margaret & Albert Streets Brisbane;
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Jane Russell’s current stmt in
‘Montana Belle’ will be her last.”
—Film news.
Henceforth her proportions
will be displayed more gener-
ously.
4* 4*
“At Booligal it was 105 deg. at noon
yesterday; top there at noon. Yester-
day’s top there was 110.”
—Sydney “Sun.’ *
No mean temperature!
•b *b
“Business gent., middle-aged, tea-
toteler, desires accommodation, near
transport.’ paper.
By water-wagon exclusively.
“People treat their garbagemen
better than they support the cause of
Christian missionaries.”
—Sunday “Sun/
They neglect the latter and
give the former all they can.
Sink and Sunk.
“Love is a condition that begins
when you sink into his arms and
end up with your arms in the sink.”
—London housewife Mrs. J. Booth.
When young Dan Cupid sends
his darts
Unerringly into our hearts
The world stands still and we
repeat
Our fickle vows of love undying
By moonlight, with romantic
sighing.
Wherever lads and lasses meet.
And does this dream-world last
for aye
With scent of flowers all the
way ?
Ah, no! Too soon we find
life’s cup
Of bitterness and mockery
Filled to the brim with crockery
And then romance is quite
washed up.
BERT.
Double-crossed.
“Some wrestlers enjoy playing the
role of a bad man.” —Sports item.
It had been arranged that five
minutes before the final bell
Bad Man Asphixio would leap
high into the air and alight with
an illegal stranglehold on
White Knight Tannhauser, The
referee would be dropkicked
over the press-seats for attempt-
ing to interfere, and Asphixio,
leaving his opponent s head
caught in the ropes, would tear
strips of canvas off the mat, bind
Tannhauser in the manner of a
mummy, and hurl him at the let.
as he clambered back on to the
apron. Asphixio would bite an-
other notch out of the corner-
post and stump off, amid an up-
roar of hoots, to his dressing-
room. This might be all right as
far as Asphixio was concerned
but as the gong went for the final
round Tannhauser had begun to
doubt that it was right for his
partner always to get the credit.
He decided to do the dirty.
Instead of waiting for
Asphixio to alight on his
shoulders he sidestepped, and, as
Asphixio spread on the canvas,
Tannhauser sat on him, meth-
cdically plucked every hair off
his back and stuffed his ears with
peanut-shells. He gained the fall,
and the mob booed as they d
never booed before. Asphixio,
still bewildered at the frailty of
human nature, was carried
shoulder - high back to his
dressing-room amid deafening
cheers.
He had never felt so miserable.
PLOP.
Not a Grimm View.
“Announcing that Czech fairy-
tales are to be re-written to make
them more inspiring from the Com-
munist viewpoint, the Prague ‘Mlada
Fronta’ suggests three ideal themes:
the great Socialist Revolution, how
the poor used to live when they were
exploited, and the Five-Year Plan.”
The Political Commissar of
the Collectivist Kindergarten in
Praghe gazed sternly at the class
of four-year-old Comradelets as
they filed in under their young
Communist guards.
All but one had their heads
shaved in the manner prescribed
by the regime for two reasons.
The first was that letting the hair
grow was a device of the de-
praved plutocracies so as to en-
courage capitalistic barbers to
pursue the profit-motive. The
second was that, with no Mar-
shall Aid available, there was no
D.D.T. powder. The Soviet had
in 1946 promised to deliver
10,000 tons of it within a month,
but the Spy Corps attached to
the Soviet Embassy in Washing-
ton had bought the wrong
formula from some unscrupulous
dastard there, which proved so
nutritious to the livestock that
Muscovites became even more
verminous than before.
The delinquent was hauled out
in front of the class and was
ordered to explain why he still
had capitalist curls. When he
lisped that “Mummy likes them”
he was whisked away to a “cor-
rective institution,” and his
parents were imminently due to
take a long holiday where they
would enjoy beautiful barbed-
wire views.
“Now, Comrades,” began the
teacher, after the Commissar,
having finished his hour’s
harangue on the advantage of
living in the complete socialist
State, had given him permission
to commence, “we are not to
have any more dull fairy-tales
dealing with princes and
princesses, fairy-godmothers and
wicked witches they were
written only for capitalist dupes,
and no loyal little Communist
will want to hear about them.
We have an exciting new fairy-
tale for you, specially written
by Anton Zwcks, a brilliant
Stakhanovite garbage-sorter and
a member of the Gottwald
Youth Corps. You’ll all be
jumping around with excitement
at this lovely story.
“The hero of it is called Little
Red Writing Good,
“Little Red lived in a beautiful
worker’s flat with a nice mud
floor that had once been a
slaughter-house. It had a lovely
communal kitchen with a
modern stove fuelled with old
rags, much better than they have
in capitalist countries, where the
workers can’t afford a stove, and
have to eat everything raw. Here
the happy wives of the happy
Communist workers were
allowed to queue up to cook
their meals. How much better
than to have to cook in a kitchen
of their own, like they are com-
pelled to do in the warmonger-
ing Western Democracies!
“Well, Little Red Writing
Good was called that because
even when he was only three
years old he was able to write
wonderful propaganda slogans
for the party, such as The
People’s Democracies urge peace
but Wall-street wants war,’ and
‘Religion is a dope, and so are
those that practise it.’
“Now when Little Red’s
proud parents found he had this
gift they dutifully reported it to
their local Political Commissar,
and before long Little Red was
writing wonderful propaganda
for Factory Groups, and he was
able to quote Karl Marx and
Engels. Before he was six Little
Red could show that the capi-
talist system which exploited the
wretched workers, who are
driven by police with whips to
their factory benches, and who
have to walk with their feet
wrapped in sandbags because
they don’t get paid enough to
afford boots, are now unable to
compete with the Communist
States because, whereas the
profits made from the sweat and
tears of the capitalist slaves go
to swell the purses of the bloated
plutocratic shareholders, in the
Communist State the profits are
shared by the happy and con-
“Better be careful of this one , Doctor; says he's got the sea
in his veins."
tented workers, who own every-
thing. Now”
Here little Kpjpec put up his
hand. “Please, sir, tell us about
Jack an’ the Beanstalk,” he said.
When little Kopec had been
removed to have a lighted-match
put under his fingernails to per-
suade him to “confess” which
of his parents had been telling
him that capitalistic fairy-tale,
the teacher resumed.
“Well, Little Red Writing
Good became so good at propa-
ganda-writing that he was soon
contributing articles to the
official party organ, in which he
proved that if the happy workers
were all to become Stakhanovite
heroes and push production-
graphs up by increasing output
per man-hour by only twenty
per cent., and by accepting com-
pulsory wage-cuts, the Five-Year
Plan would be such a glorious
success that even up to thirty
per cent, of output quotas might
be reached. Now, wasn’t that
clever of Little Red?”
As the teacher looked up he
saw every mouth agape with a
yawn, and he began yawning
himself. Soon his voice became
progressively slower as his own
yawns grew more frequent. But
he forced himself to go on with
the party-line fairy-tale.
“Well, Little Red was soon
able to show Workers’ Groups
in anti-capitalist articles in the
‘Sozialista Punka’ that the
Stalinist-Marxist theory of the
profitless yet prosperous Socialist
State was economically possible,
and that the capitalist structure
must fall down under its own
weight. Aw-ee-ee”
As his chin hit his chest he
jerked his eyes open and blearily
looked at his class.
They were all asleep.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
A Simple Sermon
Our official economists are urging us
to keep on saving for security. While one
assures us that we are starting on a new
and steeper spiral of inflation, another
is planning to grab our surplus cash now
in order to give it back at some future
date, when it will have lost a lot of its
purchasing-power. Their single object is
to prevent us from seeing just how fast
our money is melting and how rapidly
shortages of solid commodities are in-
creasing.
This trick has been tried before and
has always ended in national bankruptcy.
In some countries the deluded citizens
failed to realise that a Government bond
is only as good as a Government’s word,
until they saw their paper savings being
used as beer-labels and confetti. That
could happen here.
Bulging banks are no security against
empty barns, idle mines, cold furnaces,
rusting transport and lost markets.
If Australians adopted “Work for
Security” as a slogan they could have
cake and ice-cream at all hours. They
could even have houses to live in, with
plenty of gas and electricity to bake their
cake and freeze their cream. They could
even have the beer “on” at all times.
Freedom from fear of want can’t be
secured until we have freedom from fear
of work. We can’t even have freedom
from fear of rabbits or Asiatics unless we
produce fences and defences to keep them
from invading and subduing our land of
hope and glory.— Jeremiah (S.A.).
Home Finance
Sick of paying rent, I recently made
inquiries at the Commonwealth Bank
concerning the Federal Government’s
wonderful credit-foncicr offer to the
workers. My visions of owning the
home so enticingly pictured on the cover
of the bank’s brochure received a setback
when I discovered that, firstly, I would
have to put down a deposit of £263 on a
house costing £1750, which is the maxi-
mum loan and incidentally the minimum
price a local builder quotes. Where in
the name of fortune is a worker on £7
or £8 a week going to get £263?
Secondly, the weekly rental, worked out
on the basis of 11s. per £lOO of bor-
rowed money, would amount to £2 Is. 3d.
a week. A fleabite perhaps to wharfies
and coalies, but to a clerk struggling to
get away with £l-a-week rent —simply no
go. So back to hard work and more
smoke-dreams of a home which may
materialise when I can contribute the
extra out of my wife’s pension.— Nalla
(S.A.).
Droughts and Railways
The assertion (B. 26 /1 / ’49) that
in Queensland 50,000,000 sheep have
perished in droughts over 50 years for
the want of the Charleville-Blackall rail
link is fantastic. The total losses of sheep
by drought all over the State would not
approach that figure.
Nor does ' Hadley Propsting (B.
2/2/’49) represent informed public
opinion when he says Queensland wants
a railway from Cunnamulla to Bourke
and another from Blackall to Charleville.
True, some graziers would like these
railways, but for Queensland as a whole
they would spell serious economic loss.
Such lines would not open for new or
closer-settlement one acre of land or
increase the carrying capacity of one
holding. They would serve very occasion-
ally to save some thousands of sheep.
From a broad economic viewpoint, how-
ever, it would be better for these sheep
to die rather than burden the State with
more non-paying railways, which even
during good seasons would never pay
working expenses, to say nothing of in-
terest on the several millions involved in
construction of lines, locomotives and
rolling stock.
The theory that you need only a pair
of steel rails between two western points
to save the whole of the sheep losses of
a State in drought-time is absurd. No
State could possibly hold in reserve for
years hundreds of locomotives and many
more trucks to move enormous numbers
of sheep say once in a decade. And ffie
fact is that stockowners postpone to the
last moment the movement of stock in the
hope that rain may fall. Then they rush
in orders for trucks far beyond the
capacity of any railway system.
Another popular fallacy is that when
drought prevails in the west you have
only to go across the border or to the
north or south to find lush and unoccu-
pied pastures waiting to feed many
millions of sheep. Actually severe
droughts are generally widespread. In
the 1935 drought the railways in Queens-
land moved their record number of starv-
ing sheep—l,47s,ooo. But in that year
stock in large numbers were sent east for
agistment from the Charleville, Roma and
Cunnamulla areas. So the south-west
cannot be relied upon to relieve the
central and northern divisions in times of
drought. If agistment has to be found in
the Darling Downs and Goodiwindi dis-
tricts, the rail distance from the pivotal
point of the central-west—Longreach—is
only 160 miles greater via Rockhampton
and Brisbane than via Blackall and
Charleville, or 10 hours’ train journey—
certainly not sufficient to affect transport
seriously.
Take another instance. In 1944-46 a
prolonged drought in N. S. Wales resulted
in the loss of about 10,000,000 sheep in
12 months. But while that State has a net-
work of railways fewer than a million
sheep were moved for agistment in that
year. Finding grazing for 10,000,000
sheep during a drought and transporting
them are man-sized jobs.
I know experienced sheep graziers in
the west who have never suffered material
losses during droughts because they con-
sistently resisted the temptation to over-
stock in good seasons, and, by subdivision,
always kept grass in reserve. Experience
is a hard taskmaster, and one lesson we
should is that there is a sheep-
carrying saturation-point in Queensland of
“I TOLD her not to put hothouse flowers on that bed!”
approximately 20,000,000. The fact that
we have fewer sheep now than nearly
60 years ago should impress that fact
upon us. Some of the areas suffering
most from the present drought are those
where owners have treated their holdings
as mines to be exploited for immediate
gain, when they should have developed
their properties intelligently to maintain
continuity of production.— Will S. Pryce
(Q-).
Liberals and New States
At the Armidale New-State convention
K. M. McCaw (M.L.A.) expressed the
opinion—shared’ by two other Liberals
who attended with him as observers —
that there was an urgent need for prompt
establishment of new States as the only
effective means of decentralisation. The
Liberal Party will shortly consider this
matter and make an official announce-
ment. Mr. McCaw will be able to carry
to the Liberals the impression that, this
time, the New Staters mean business in
New England. If the Liberals adopt
new States in their platform it will be
one of their wisest moves, for it will
confound those who contend that theirs
is a party solely interested in city affairs.
Country-party decentralisation stal-
warts will welcome the support of their
fellow anti-Socialists, The idea must be
“sold” in the city and other parts of the
State, because the State Parliament must
approve of the separation of the New
England area. Encouragement comes
from the activities of metropolitan Con-
stitutional Leagues—also represented at
the convention by observers —and other
bodies formed to foster the spirit of true
Federalism against the revolutionary
trend to concentrate all power in Can-
berra. These associations realise that
many strong independent States are the
only answer, and see 10 or 12 virile
Parliaments as the best safeguard against
extremists taking control in 3. sudden
coup.— Coffsite (N.S.W.).
That Wheat “Agreement”
Australian wheatgrowers viewed cer-
tain moves in the International Wheat
Agreement at Washington with suspicion.
It was announced that a price was de-
cided upon, but what price was not dis-
closed. Rumor set it for the first year at
10s. or lower per bushel, declining in five
years to about 55., or under Australian
cost of production.
Russia’s entry into the discussion and
her reported willingness to sell huge
quantities of wheat (again at an undis-
closed price) was regarded by local
growers as strange, if not sinister, for
there are memories of Soviet dumping in
pre-war years.
H. S. Roberton, president of N.S.W.
Farrriers and Settlers, described the
rumored agreement as “a shameful
betrayal of the Australian wheat-
grower” and deplored the Chifley
Government’s refusal to allow Aus-
tralia to have producer representa-
tives at the conference, even as
observers. He said that the Government,
by sending representatives to a confer-
ence obviously designed to reduce world
parity, did a peculiar thing and could
scarcely complain if Australian growers
couldn’t reconcile this with a “stabilisa-
tion” scheme that was alleged “to solve
the problems of the industry for ever.” —
He-ne (N.S.W.).
Whither Unionism?
The increasing resentment in trade-
union circles toward the Comrades indi-
cates growth of responsible leadership.
Plain but forgotten truths, suqh as there
can be no “free” goods and services, and
money is worth only what it will buy,
are making themselves felt. Eighteen
months ago few recognised those as
truths ; today there are few who don’t.
We fall roughly into three classes; (1)
Those who think objectively and are un-
moved by catchcries; (2) those who are
fools and Communists, terms in some
respects synonymous, with the difference
that while a worker who is a Communist
must be a fool, a fool need not be a
Communist; (3) the great majority, too
mentally lazy to be interested in anything
more serious than dogs and horses.
This lack of serious thought makes
class (3) easy victims of specious
propaganda. By their number in a
democracy they are the deciding factor
between sanity and chaos. Because they
are essentially sound and decent they
will, when awakened, back sanity.
Rumblings indicate that the awakening
is about to take place.
Union leaders are obviously disturbed.
Among them are too many Communists
seeking to destroy from conviction and
too many cheerchasers prepared to de-
stroy if it will gain them the plaudits of
the mob. When the threatened upheaval
takes place, unionism as we know it will
be replaced by unionism as the old stal-
warts of long ago planned it.
The union boss of the future will be
a trained economist, a specialist in the
industry to which his members belong.
He will regard its advancement as of
primary importance. He will demand
from employer and employee the best
they can give for the prosperity of both.
He will no more consider promoting dis-
order as his duty than a medico would
regard the introduction of plague as his.
He will fight the one as resolutely as
the medico would assail the other.
From the present cynicism and
treachery the leader of the future is
emerging.— Dusty Mile (Q.).
Building a Home
Last year I had to build a home. I
knew next to nothing about building, and
arranged for an architect to supply plans
and specifications at a charge of 3 p.c.
After a few days inquiring re local trades-
men and cross-checking local opinions,
I met a man who had given up con-
tract building because of present condi-
tions, and who was working on small
jobs, alterations and maintenance. He
suggested working on day wages as
materials arrived, a practicable arrange-
ment because he had several jobs on hand
and could work each on the same basis.
He knew the district, local suppliers,
tradesmen, shire authorities and so forth.
Through him I met a bricklayer, a joiner,
a painter, an electrician and a tiler.
These tradesmen, all past middle age,
were “old-timers.” They knew each
other well, and accommodated their pro-
grammes to fit in with the progress of
each other’s jobs.
Seven months later my home was com-
pleted 12 squares w.b., tiled bathroom
and kitchen, h.w.s. Cost was about £2OO
less than if it had been let to a con-
tractor. I attribute saving in time and
cash, and the excellent job, to the group
for the following reasons: They worked
as a team, for each other. Liability for
wages was limited to daily employment.
They freely gave advice, based on long
experience. Their familiarity with local
suppliers obtained me extra consideration
in emergencies. They knew their trades
and did a good job.— Ti-tree (Vic.),
For the Defence—ln Part
Perhaps Mr, Calwell has a shrewder
brain and clearer psychological foresight
than most people suppose. The job of an
Immigration Minister is no light burden,
and, in all fairness, we must agree that
Mr. CalwelJ is doing what he believes
to be his national and patriotic duty.
Heated controversy is still centred
round the case of Mrs. O’Keefe. No one
enjoys evicting harmless people of any
creed or color, but when systems and
laws are made they must be adhered to,
and there are so many of these that Mr,
Calwell should be pitied if he makes a
slip. How much of the complaining
about the O’Keefe case is based on
genuine consideration? If Australians
have no objection to a colored popula-
tion then a review of the White Australia
policy should be advocated instead of
urging the breaking of the law in indi-
vidual cases, and misjudging a well-
meaning Minister.
There are flaws in the Immigration
scheme. 1 am informed of a young
Englishman who was settled in Australia,
but was recalled to England on the death
of his father. He has not been allowed to
return, apparently because he migrated
once before. This man has a position
waiting for him in Sydney as an engineer
and is extremely vexed with his position.
Foreigners from Europe are steadily
filling available positions while cases such
as his are on record. Would our papers
and people not be more intelligent to
argue for similar cases in preference to
that of Mrs. O’Keefe? —D.M. H.
(N.S.W.).
Gagging Producers
Land-men in Queensland are waking
up to the effect of that pernicious clause
in marketing Acts which gives the Minis-
ter power to override the decisions of
marketing boards.
The Australian Meat Board has an im-
posing de facto representation of the
various stock industries —beef, fat-lamb,
mutton —concerned, but actually these
have no real representation. When the
board discusses problems affecting any
particular section of the meat industry
and makes recommendations to the
Minister, the producers concerned are
not informed of the board’s deci-
sions or its recommendations. They
are told the board is advisory to
the Minister, who will make public
the board’s (really the Minister’s)
decisions. When such decisions are an-
nounced it is too late for the producers
to take any effective action.
To a complaint on this score recently
the Canberra reply was that pro-
ducers’ representatives on boards had the
confidence of the producers concerned.
J. F. McCutcheon, a well-known Innis-
fail man interested in sugar and beef-
cattle, told the Executive Council of the
United Graziers’ Association that it was
time producers took steps to have this
gag removed. They were fighting “this
infernal secrecy” in the sugar and butter
industries; in fact, there was not one
land industry which was not objecting
strongly to it. President of Graziers
Federal Council (R. D. Bakewell) told
the same meeting that Victorian graziers
were concerned about the delay in setting
up State meat advisory boards, and the
U.G.A. president (P. B. Newcomen),
who is a member of the Australian Meat
Board, said his recollection was that the
board had got to the stage of calling
nominations from the various States when
Commerce Minister Pollard disapproved
of the whole plan. One can understand
why such a procedure suits a “Labor
Government, but it is a most undemo-
cratic way of controlling the administra-
tive and marketing sides of our principal
land industries. — Archaps (Q.).


Non-official P.O.
Twelve months as a country postmaster
convinced me that the “non-official”
racket is the most refined method of
sweated labor condoned y a “Gov-
ernment” which allows flea-money to
wharfies.
On a salary of £49 16s. 4d. per calendar
month, it looked a good proposition, and
I took it on with every intention of
staying put for at least five years. The
office served a pretty thriving country
district, and had only recently been taken
off “official” status. In addition to regu-
lar postal duties, I had money-orders,
pensions, savings-bank business, and a
continuous telephone-exchange with 50
subscribers.
The postal work was a cinch —I’ll give
the P.M.G. that; the accounting methods
are as near perfection as it is possible
to be—but a continuous telephone-ex-
change provided a lever for everyone
in the district to extract the last ounce of
out-of-hours service as far as office work
went. Refusal to give money-orders after
3.30 p.m., or to serve stamps and p.ns.
up to 9 p.m. at night, always resulted in
the same method being applied. Someone
would ring up and ask the time at any
hour between midnight and 3 a.m.
In short, the P.M. was at the mercy of
50 telephone-subscribers who dictated
the policy of their local office.
One of the conditions was that a con-
tinuous telephone-service had to be pro-
vided. My wife acted as operator and
was paid £4 18s. per week. Analyse the
situation: Allowing the job to be worth
£l2 a week, deduct £1 ss. for rent and
light, and £4 18s. for telephonist’s wages
on an eight-hour basis. That leaves £5
17s. for the P.M., to rise at 6, prepare
mails, meet the train, get mails off, re-
ceive mails, sort and check them, have
breakfast (in between answering' the
’phone), do the day’s routine in the office,
prepare telephone statistics for accounts,
monthly returns, weekly returns, daily re-
turns, attend to afternoon mails, and be
prepared to give mail out on Saturday
afternoons.
Holidays are a farce. The office opens
between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. on most
holidays. The telephone goes on for
ever. I prepared a case which was sub-
mitted to the district inspector, showing
that, over six months, the average number
of calls between noon on Saturday and
8 a.m. on Monday was 27—these included
calls from one subscriber whose daily
average was .40 of a call per day except
on Saturday, when the average was 11.
The local s.p. merchant can answer that
one. I asked that the office be closed at
least on Sundays, as the small number
of calls did not merit the office being
open. No dice.
I pointed out that tenure- of the office
before I had taken over had been: No.
1 (postmaster), two months; no. 2
(temporary postmistress), four months;
no. 3 (acting postmistress), two months.
Also, that money spent in im-
proving the office made it impossible
for me to quit without a loss, and that
the conditions would ensure that no
postmaster would hold that office as a
permanency. Still no dice. The fact
remained that whoever took the office
and lost money and health on it,
someone could be found to take it—that
is, until he woke up to conditions. Thus,
the P.M.G. is paying £l2 a week for the
conduct of an office which, on an official
basis, using a postmaster, three tele-
phonists and a messenger, would cost up-
wards of £22 a week in wages alone.
The whole system of non-official post-
offices calls for a thorough inquiry. No
continuous service should ever be placed
on a non-official basis. Only those who
have stood up to it for 12 months know
what a health-breaker it is.— Video (Q.).
Housing Costs
In Queensland the upward spiral of
building costs has halted, if the State
Housing Commission is to be believed.
The Housing Minister has declared that
a definite levelling-out of timber prices,
first noticed about mid-1948, has con-
tinued. “The progressively steep rise in
tender-price which marked the contrac-
tors’ quotes in the 1947-48 financial year
has thus ended,” the official report said.
For my part, as a home-builder
in the last 12 months, and as a friend of
many who are building now,T am cynical
enough to disbelieve the State Housing
Commission, which assures us that a three-
bedroom house in Brisbane is now cost-
ing £1250.
I don-’t know where it gets its
figures, but it is rather significant that
War Service Homes Division, which used
to have a maximum of £1250 available
for a loan, has found it necessary to
raise the maximum to £l5OO (£1750 in
some cases) to meet the high costs of
building.— Momokan (Q.).
Public-service Accounting
More than the new system of public-
service bookkeeping methods mentioned
by “Maxstoke” (B. 2/2 / ’49) is required.
“Sez 'e's from the Water Board.”
Too many accounts officers appear to be
solely concerned with the mere fact of
balancing figures. It seems to be almost
a crime for a clerk to discuss the real
story of the figures with an engineer. I
once heard a clerk told by his inspector
that it was no concern of accounts what
any section of the work was costing—
their job was the recording of expenditure.
This clerk has since gone to private enter-
prise, where his attitude to costing is
appreciated.
Construction , officers are frequently
hampered by the delay in obtaining costs
of works in progress. These accounts are
usually kept in four-weekly periods, and
the earliest one can expect to receive
figures is a fortnight after the close of the
period. More likely it will be a month
or even longer. The usual excuse offered
for any delay is shortage of staff even
while they are demanding more space and
furniture to accommodate extra clerical
officers. If the accounts do reveal any
weakness in field-management such late
presentation of costs means needless extra
debit before the cause can be sought and
rectified.
The basis of construction-costing is the
man-hours sheet sent to the office by the
ganger or leading-hand, good men on the
practical side, but with no essential know-
ledge of costing. Unless the engineer, or
his foreman, is in a position to scrutinise
these sheets daily—and very few do check
them regularly—some highly misleading
sectional costs are inevitable at times. If
there is only a casual scrutiny, then, when
the figures come from the office six or
eight weeks later, it is almost impossible
for a ganger to correct entries compiled
in a slipshod manner.
The public service urgently requires
clerical officers with at least 10 years’ com-
mercial costing experience. Private em-
ployers require prompt and reliable data,
with intelligent comment where neces-
sary, or else. To do a decent job engineers
in the public service must have the same
service from their costing officers. Clerks
sfiould keep accounts in whatever form
permits them to let the man on the job
know immediately how things are going.
Life on a construction job is generally
a battle between the field and office staffs
" instead of a co-operative
effort. Cutting of costs is
in the hands of the
spenders rather than those
of the recorders, and no
new system, unless it pro-
vides for prompt rendering
of instructive information
to the spenders, will
achieve any efficient
economy. Competent
clerks, with the right ap-
proach to their work, are
required before we have
more fresh, rulings of
forms and ledgers. — Noon-
amah (N.S.W.).
Bureaucracy
The plight of several
large'familieslivingin river-
side shacks in one of Mel-
bourne’s outer suburbs re-
ceived publicity the other
day when complaints were
voiced that even the Hous-
ing Commission had no
time for couples with four
or five children and had
allotted houses to those
with smaller families al-
though others with greater
claims were on the waiting
list. A Housing Commis-
sion official then explained
that, while the commission
naturally had sympathy for
couples with five or more kiddies, it was
difficult to help them, as the commission
rarely had a large house available and
was not building many large homes:
What was not explained was why some
practical attempt was not made to meet
the needs of the larger families living in
admittedly intolerable conditions. Any
organisation except a Government con-
cern, in such a situation, would have a
shot at helping the unfortunates who
appear likely to spend the winter bogged
down on the Yarra flats, even if it meant
doing something a little out of« the
ordinary, such as putting up a fibrp-
cement sleep-out in the backyard of the
first house available. Sleep-outs are
readily available in Melbourne.
To the official mind the idea of adding
a back verandah or a sleep-out to that
already perfect creation of bureaucracy,
the Housing Commission home, must
seem sheer sacrilege.— Wusslean (Vic.).
Meat Prices
What evidence has “Oxo” (B. 2/2/’49)
for the statement that “under the present
set-up the breeder gets a satisfactos y
price”? The Queensland cattle indusi, j
has never had a cost-of-production
inquiry, and I believe there will be a
rude awakening if one is ever held.
Generally, the breeding industry is
undercapitalised, most properties are
poorly equipped, few have sufficient tools,
most capital assets are sadly in need of
attention, fences are falling down and
buildings and watering facilities are in
need of repair. Has “Oxo” ever seen ton£
of humus in a waterhole? How many
breeding properties does he know of, on
the east coast df Queensland, that are not
suffering from sheet-erosion?
When cattlemen'told Sir Henry Turner
that present prices are unpayable and
that taxation is too high and kills incen-
tive, they were only stating the truth.
Prices certainly do not cover what costs
should be, if land deterioration is to cease
and carrying-capacity be maintained. They
‘do not cover 25 per cent, brandings and
50 per cent, herd losses. No one will
dispute this.
The fact that Sir Henry Turner appar-
ently could not reconcile the two state-
ments is quite understandable. Few
graziers themselves can, because 90 per
cent, of* them do not understand and
cannot take out the profit or loss on a
cattle account. If “Oxo” goes into the
matter of profits, over a bad stretch like
we have been having in Queensland when
sales exceed brandings, he will find that
the profit, so-called, is largely due to
capital inflation and is not trading profit
at all.
The statement that “the consumer is
paying a sufficiently high price for meat”
is debatable. One must remember that
Queensland meat is the cheapest in Aus-
tralia and that approximately 2,000,000-
head of cattle have been lost by this
industry in the last few years. The loss
of 30 per cent, of an industry’s liquid
capital in a few years does not spell pros-
perity. Presuming that the consumer wants
meat, it is very doubtful that he will long
be able to get it at prices that fail to
give an economic return to the producer.
Fatteners naturally buy stores as
cheaply as they can, and voluntary control
of store prices would be quite futile.
Queensland fatteners will always have to
face the problem of high prices for stores
while we have price variations between
the States, because southern buyers can
afford to pay more than the Queensland
fattener. The solution to that problem
is to bring Queensland prices into line
with those of other States.
The fixed retail price of meat gives only
temporary protection to the public; it
certainly protects the meat companies,
placing them in the happy position of
middlemen between the cattle industry and
retail price. The fixed retail price virtu-
ally places control of the cattle industry
in the hands of the meat companies, and
we can only hope that the next meat con-
tract with Britain includes a floor price in
Australian currency for meat per 1001 b.
at the meatworks— Beefcattle (Q.).
Nobody should be surprised to find
“Labor” championing the Indonesian and
Malayan Communists against Dutch and
British colonists. Its policy is the same
as the Communists —to take over the
running of every enterprise after other
people have worked hard for years,
building it up, and getting the venture
functioning smoothly and efficiently.—
Anti-Sosh (Q.).
’THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 6
Across.
I—This joint drives father to the
grave. (7)
4 —Liberate the time that a record
has existed. (7)
B—Throw8 —Throw the mixture towards the
Eastern source of uranium. (11)
10 —Use a biblical dupe. (4)
12—Dull conversationalists from
Artois. (8, 5)
14 —Finally give some tea to a
worldly porter. (2, 4)
17---Cowboys from Virginia joining
the queue before you and Cupid.
(8)
20— Observed. (4)
21 — Brown hacks sometimes jog
along on it. (3)
22 A tear for the landlord? (4)
23 No tidies (anagram). (8)
24 Disorderly German dog kept a
cow out of it. (6)
27 —The last little day of the week is
taken by assertive political cliques
for such pleasures. (13)
29 —This little disfigurement can bur-
row in a breakwater.
31 —River girl is to taste little drops
of 3.14159265. (11) P
32 Kind of London fog, of course *
(3, 4)
33 Slashing into a bone in a device
for shutting up Parliament. (7)
(cryptic type.)
(Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1— The seed that daddy hands over
to a famous English lyric. (5, 6)
2 Ancient city that produces U.S.
sheep. (7)
3 Indian antelope allows nothing
gay in France. (6)
4 A little publicity upset this
Sudanese native with regard to a
. “blue” river. (8)
5 Drive cattle. (5)
6 Screen shows a city in the Pas-
de-Calais. (5)
7 Unit of work confuses little
Reginald. (3)
9 —Guided to a singular horse-
market and told tales. (7)
11 —Cut north from this British river.
(6)
13 —Haircutting can be very upset-
ting. (11)
15 — Just the place for hit-and-walk
drivers. (3)
16 — Beast knows the one I am taking
a half-century. (6)
17 — The front of the vehicle. (3)
18 — Concerning the King who has
nothing up with him, yet is put
into new condition. (7)
19 — Number. (3)
21 —Spun the coin steamer in the
digit to take a late meal at last.
(6, 2)
25 —Swears at the international games.
(7)
26 Forcing His Majesty to keep
mum? (6)
27 am in the couch of this city.
(S) u • ■
28 — Rising encounter on the river is
in time. (5)
30 —Explosive progenitor. (3)
SOLUTION TO CROSSWORD No. 5


“THE UNIT OF ENERGY”
»
BATTERIES
REIGN SUPREME
ps-m
'■‘Sriy&iStS
mi
I|i '-,< J '* \sa
iii m •■ - «* -
igil
<9
mm
M
••■ :':V:--’'
ss
A
\ *?s>.
fPT Hr'
v ■;{:
■•• P ihii i > ( ; * ■ |
I i ill I M \
fm
m
. K'k
lii
I ■‘l
mkm
•m
m
3BS
sSp
m
mmm
m
A<-J
■■■ £ H
mmmKS I
;••' ■ vjV ••-■ ; : ; V
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
‘ FOR
15th CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radiola for
17 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL'
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR.
RADIO, LAUNCH.
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER. ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W. :
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria :
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrobe Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART.
Manufactured by
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD.,
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E.l*
New Caledonia:
HAGEN FRERES, NOUMEA.
Fiji:
ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO.,
SUVA.
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney. ’Phone: MA 6188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: B 6565, B 4448
