

GREAT WEST
A PRODUCT OF
■ ■ V. y "Wt <>■ ' 4...*
Bss
SOL
HOUSE
c
r .
SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 70—No. 3634
7
V V'\. ‘A--■ ‘ :■■■■ ■
Wednesday, October 5, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
SCOTLAND’S HISTORIED CATHEDRAL OF ST. ANDREW’S
'T'HERE is hardly a place in the older part of the Scottish town
of St. Andrews which has not some historic interest. The place
was already a famous ecclesiastical centre when the relics of St.
Andrew were brought here in the eighth century to give it its
present name. In the tenth century it became the seat of the first
Scottish bishopric. In 1160 the Cathedral was founded by Bishop
Arnold, and it was eventually consecrated in 1318, in the presence
of King Robert the Bruce, as a national thank-offering for the
vindication of Scottish independence at the Battle of Bannock-
burn.
When completed, St. Andrew’s Cathedral was by far the largest
church in Scotland. It measured 355 feet in length by 160 feet
wide at the transepts.
At the time of the Reformation, much of the ancient glory of
the Cathedral departed. It was wrecked in 1559, and within a
century had been reduced to its present ruins. The only remains
standing, as shown here, are parts of the west and east ends,
entirely isolated from each other. The earlier east-end wall (The
Lady Chapel), with its flanking turrets, is still in a fair state of
preservation.
In this Cathedral lames V married Mary of Guise, mother of
Mary Queen of Scots, in 1538; and within its walls Patrick
Hamilton, George Wishart and Walter Myln were tried and
condemned for heresy and later burnt at the stake.
John Knox’s sermons on the “cleansing of the temple” on four
consecutive days in June, 1559, led to the destruction of certain
images and ornaments in the Cathedral. By 1649 the citizens of
St. Andrews were using the stones of the Cathedral for fortifying
the town and in building houses. The Cathedral museum contains
many interesting relics.


fin
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,**
My Name .
My Address *
S.B. 149 AGE
The Red Page
DEMONS IN THE SUN.
A week or two ago Mr. Peter Hope-
good, who had been commissioned to
write an article on Australian folklore
for the English magazine “Poetry Com-
monwealth”—which has been giving
some space lately to contemporary Aus-
tralian poets — came into The Bulletin
in search of bunyips, bogies, ogres, elves,
witches, etc., such as might be expected
to lurk in this paper’s files.
Very little could be done for him. Even
the Religious Editor had not seen the
devil since his last bout; and as Mr.
Hopegood was already well acquainted
with Fisher’s Ghost, the Tantanoola Tiger
and Brian James’s “The Bunyip of
Barney’s Elbow” it was no use offering
him those classic specimens of the super-
natural. , It had to be admitted that Aus-
tralian literature was singularly lacking
in demons. The best we have—Hugh
McCrae’s satyrs and centaurs and a
handful of fairies from the days of the
Celtic Twilight—might live robustly in
McCrae’s poetry and frailly in the Irish
lyrics, might subtly imbue the national
consciousness with an essence of the
supernatural, but would never realty be
seen dancing under the gumtrees. What
was Australian in Hugh McCrae’s verse
was his sunlight, his scorn of convention
and his splendid vigor ; what was poetic
in it was the beautiful technique and the
passionate, abstract vision for which the
satyrs were only a mask.
In default of demons, it was suggested
to Mr. Hopegood that he make do with
“The Man from Snowy River.” Not only
in the Old Bush Songs Paterson collected
but in Paterson’s own ballads and in those
of his contemporaries, and in the modern
historical poems of Kenneth Slessor,
Robert D. Fitz Gerald and Francis Webb
—which have added to the company of
Clancy and The Man from Snowy River
the figures of Captain Cook, Tasman, Ben
Boyd and Leichhardt—lay embodied an
Australian folklore ; and, other than what
we might be able without falsification to
draw from the aborigines and what we
might legitimately recall from the Euro-
pean tradition, folklore of this kind was
all we were likely to have. It would form
the* basis of the Australian mind ; and
that, surety, was the purpose of folklore.
Mr. Hopegood saw the point, but said
he still'wanted demons.
It was suggested that, as the years went
by, as centuries went by, these figures
would increasingly acquire a legendary
and mythological stature.; they would
stand at the back of the Australian mind
like the heroes and villains of the Nordic
sagas; like Ulysses in the Greek tradi-
tion ; like Shakspeare’s kings and clowns
in the collective consciousness of Eng-
land. They were what the psychoanalysts
called, if one remembered the term
rightly, the “archetypal heroes” of the
race.
Mr. Hopegood saw the point and said
he still wanted demons.
He was last sighted wandering discon-
solately in the direction of Jim Tyrrell’s
secondhand bookshop. It might have
heartened him somewhat to go to what-
ever booksellers are stocking David
Campbell’s Speak with the Sun (Chatto
and Windus); for he had sighed for
something like the “True Thomas”
ballads, where the things of this earth
keep changing into demoniacal shapes,
and here, at least and at last, in “The
Sundowner’s Dream,” was a billy that
could turn into a crow:
A comprehensive review of Speak with
the Sun should deal with a number of
facets. There is, for instance, the ques-
tion of derivation. An early poem,
“At the Sheep-dog Trials,” comes
straight from Gogarty’s “With a Coin
from Syracuse”; “Country Boarding-
house” may owe something to Judith
Wright’s “Brothers and Sisters”; and
one seems dimly to recall, from
some other contemporary Australian
poem, the line “And grow green
grass instead of hair.” And, especi-
ally, both ballads and lyrics are
strongly under the influence of the later
Yeats. But one expects a first book of
poems to be derivative ; and, to be heard
distinctly above the accompaniment of
Yeats’s instruments and strongly when,
as in “Harry Pearce” and “Winter Stock
Route,” it sounds alone, a fine and
original lyric note runs through the whole
book.
Another point worth noting is that
David Campbell is one of the few poets
today who can write a love-lyric without
Freudian embarrassment, but simply and
spontaneously as it should be written:
He is the season’s fool
And nothing earns but banter
Who sighing meets his girl
As if he did not want her.
Oh such a spendthrift of his care
Shall find he’ll lie with nought but air.
Yet another point is the excellence of
his small group of war-poems, particu-
larly the ballad “Men in Green,” which
could stand as an epitome of the whole
tragedy of New Guinea. David Camp-
bell, who writes about war in the poem
from an airman’s point of view, takes
fifteen reinforcements in his plane to New
Guinea and brings fifteen sick men
back — ,
Their eyes were bright, their looks were dull,
Their skin had turned to clay. .
Nature had met them in the night
And stalked them in the day—
and the airman’s detachment here is also
the proper artistic detachment which
deepens the tragic effect. This is not that
kind of “passive suffering” in war which
Yeats thought unfit for art, but suffering
contemplated at just a sufficient distance
for it to be transmuted into moving
poetry.
But it is neither the love-lyrics nor the
poems of war which give Speak with the
Sun its rare and distinctive quality: which
is its “Australianness”; and the book
seems to the present reviewer more Aus-
tralian in imagery and feeling than any
verse which has been written here since
“Banjo” Paterson. Hugh McCrae wrote
fine poetry, but his satyrs are not
karlgaroos; Shaw Neilson wrote fine
poetry, but his strawberries were not
coolibah trees ; Brennan wrote about him-
self ; Kenneth Slessor is deeply aware of
a corner of Australia —Sydney—but not
of the broad countryside; Robert D.
Fitz Gerald has nobly expressed the spirit
of this country —
the tremendous leagues of summer-south
thunder-oppressive with curbed energies—
but, though one remembers a patch of
ti-tree, he has not dealt very much with
our flora and fauna in intimate detail.
David Campbell’s “Harry Pearce” could
not have been written in any country but
Australia, and—compare it with the pro-
found but distant and legendary note of
“Bullocky” or “South of My Days”—one
doubts whether even Judith Wright is so
closely, so immediately in touch with the
stream of Australian life:
I sat beside the red stock route
And chewed a blade of bitter grass
And saw in mirage on the plain
A bullock wagon pass.
Old Harry Pearce was with his team.
“The flies are bad,” I said to him.
The leaders felt his whip. It did
Me good to hear old Harry swear.
And in the heat of noon it seemed
His bullocks walked on air.
Suspended in the amber sky
They hauled the wool to Gundagai.
This distinctively Australian quality,
which glows and sparkles like sunlight on,
every page of Speak with the Sun, is not,
of course, a final proof of poetic excel-
lence. If Australian writers were to be
confined to a purely Australian idiom,
and to purely Australian themes, one
would have to forbid Shakspeare to write
about Caesar and Milton to write about
the Deity ... or William Hart-Smith
to write about Columbus. Nor is
it any use for a writer who does
not feel wholly at home with David
Campbell’s flies and crows and
bullocks and hatters and magpies to
attempt —as some of our writers have
done —to force an Australian quality into
his work. If it comes from intellectual
conviction, not spontaneously from a
mind living in complete harmony with
the Australian earth, it is worthless.
But David Campbell’s imagery, as we
may see in “Winter Stqck Route,” obvi-
ously does come spontaneously, and it
has a clear poetic excellence irrespective
of its country of origin:
Here where red dust rose
To raddle sheep and men
And the kelpie tongued at noon,
Silence has come again.
The great-boled gumtrees bow
Beneath their load of snow.
The drover and his dray
Have gone; and on this hill
I find myself alone
And Time standing still.
Printless the white road lies
Before my quiet skis.
But where my skis trace
Their transient snow furrow,
For generations both
Man and beast will follow.
Now in this winter passage
I cross the deserted stage.
In the final analysis, indeed, the poetry.
as it should be, is not Australian but
universal; pure art; a music of delight.
The world, David Campbell says in his
title poem, which deals with magpies sing-
ing in the moonlight, is made of the same
“bubbles of delight” as the melody of
the birds: and of that same pure delight,
ultimately, are these poems made. But
at the same time it is a strongly Aus-
tralian delight, awakened into a vision
of timelessness when a possum’s cry
evokes the shades of the ancient abo-
rigines, or seeking the supernatural
through the figures of hatters and drovers
seen in brief excursions into' the light of
dream and mirage and frenzy.
Because it shows what can be done by
pure artistry with an Australian imagery
springing naturally to the lips, Speak with
the Sun has an importance beyond its
immediate attraction as a book: it points
to the way along which not only David
Campbell’s poetry but Australian poetry
as a whole will probably develop. It is
a deepening of the ballad tradition into
poetry; surely the natural and inevitable
poetic speech of this continent. The
English poet and critic Cecil Day Lewis,
who is editor for Chatto and Windus,
describes this book as “some of the
freshest, most varied, most exciting poetry
which the!94o’s have produced.”
S.
He sat by the fire;
It burned with a black flame
In the fluid air
And he told me his dream.
“There was no one but I.
The yellow hills stood
Against the colored sky
As I walked down the road.
“I boiled my billycan
By an eye-clear spring
Where the town road ran;
And I heard the billy sing:
“ ‘To the right,’ it sang,
So I turned to the right,
And the billy rang
Like a bell that night.
“By dawn I had come
To a sunstruck plain
Where magpie was dumb
For the want of rain;
“Yet on the distant ground
I saw a great sea flow
Before me and I found
The billy was a crow.”
The black fire burned
And a tune came from
The billy as I turned
Back the way I had come.
Essex Extracts.
Books such as Essex Heyday, by Wil-
liam Addison (Dent), are easier read
than reviewed, being collections of facts
and anecdotes which make excellent bed-
side reading, or might help a costume
novelist setting a story in 17th-century
Essex.
Essex in the 16th century was where
the court kept its girls; and in 1533
Anne Boleyn gave a party to celebrate
the birth of Elizabeth at New Hall,
Boreham. But the old palaces with which
Mr. Addison’s book begins, like Audley
End, whose story is of court favor and
intrigues and magnificently , immoral
ladies, give way at the end of the book
to places like Wanstead, coming into the
possession of Sir Josiah Child (1630-99),
“a brilliant but an utterly unscrupulous
merchant” who “reached the summit of
his power by his unscrupulous manage-
ment of the affairs of the East India
Company,” and may be called “the
Father of Propaganda, as the word is
now used, for under the pseudonym of
‘Philopatris’ he wrote tracts and had
them sown broadcast over the kingdom.”
Between these two worlds of feudalism
and commerce came the Civil War; and
the high point of Mr. Addison’s book is
his account of the siege of the Royalists
in Colchester by the Parliament army
under Sir Thomas Fairfax. But quite as
interesting as these warlike doings are
the pictures of the rabble looting the
homes of the aristocracy; and the ac-
counts given of attacks by Puritans upon
the clergy, with invented stories of
drunkenness and immorality.
Goings-on.
The philosophy of existentialism seems
to be that it is more fun to behave badly
and call it “existentialism” than just to
behave badly ; and certainly in She Came
to Stay, by Simone de Beauvoir (Seeker
and Warburg), this theory is given ample
chance to develop.
In 1939, just before the second world
war, a girl called Xaviere came to stay
with Pierre, a Parisian producer, arid his
mistress, Francoise, a novelist. Xaviere
made a play for Pierre, and they resolved
the problem by agreeing that Pierre
should have Xaviere’s company part of
the time and Francoise the other part of
the time. Pierre did not get any more
from Xaviere than long explanations of
herself under this arrangement; she want-
ing to cut Franchise out completely; and
Franpoise, in whom the depraved Xaviere
had also aroused some passion, was too
timid to carry the matter further.
So it was to Gerbert, producer Pierre’s
handsome young actor protege, that
Xaviere fell, observed with considerable
annoyance by Pierre through a keyhole.
But Franpoise obligingly left Paris on a
walking-tour with Gerbert so that Pierre
and Xaviere might get to know each other
better. However, only Francoise and
Gerbert got to know each other better;
and soon after their return from the walk-
ing tour Pierre and Gerbert went off to
war, leaving Franfoise and Xaviere shar-
ing lodgings. Then Xaviere happened to
see the love-letters which both Pierre and
Gerbert were sending back to Francoise
from their Army quarters.
Here Mile, de Beauvoir achieves a
triumph ; for in the torrent of Xaviere’s
reproaches. Franchise, who has seen her-
self, and has been presented to us through-
out the book, as the self-sacrificing
mistress, is suddenly forced to see her-
self as a scheming, older woman who has
not only managed to keep her own lover,
but also Ms stolen Xaviere’s. No doubt
this moment has been done before in
novels, but one doesn’t remember where ;
it is a moment which must be familiar
to most people of sensibility, when they
are suddenly forced to see themselves as
others see them; and probably many
people have then done, metaphorically
or in fact, what Franfoise did: she dis-
posed of her critic and her conscience by
the old detective-story trick of turning-
off the gas at the main, turning it on in
Xaviere’s room, waiting for Xaviere to
lock her door and go to sleep, and then
turning it on at the main again.
The only fault that the reviewer, not
unversed in paper-backed criminology’,
can find with all this is that Fran9oise
did not carefully wipe he, ~i ..sprint-
from the gas-tap in Xaviere’s :oom
otherwise he must report it to b . a rT
written and subtle study by vc cF;
described on the back flap as, “wit ,’earr
Paul Sartre, the leading exp ~en of
existentialism.”
Reviewed Briefly.
The Ancient Way: James V ih\.
(Werner Laurie). A light, bright, h l ■■ » -
ous and charming account of life hi V
after the war ; among due j, pits, .' •
and peasants, and with an eye r?
Egg and I.
* * * »
A Mr. Thomas Alexander Browne has
got himself about as good a guarantee
of immortality as is possible on this
hazardous earth ; for Browne was Rolf
Boldrewood, and Robbery Under Arms
has newly been added to the World's
Classics series published by the Oxford
University Press. The book was first
published as a serial in the Sydney “Mail”
in 1881 ; so that —as a guide for con-
temporary authors —it takes just 68 years
to become a classic; or, as Browne died
in 1915, 34 years after your death. The
Oxford edition is printed in the familiar
distinguished format on India paper, and
there is a pleasantly informal introduc-
tion by Dr. Thomas Wood, our old
cobber. Incidentally, The Bulletin’s
W. E. Fitz Henry gets a mention for
some assistance, and so goes along with
Dr. Wood to his own share of Boldre-
wood’s immortality.
* * * . *
The Cosmic Rhythm of Art and Litera-
ture : Mary P. Harris (Frank Cork,
Adelaide). Lecturer on art, especially to
schoolchildren, Miss Harris, in this beau-
tifully produced book of essays on
painters and painting, considerably
illustrated, mixes Watts and Gauguin,
Leighton and Renoir, in a bowl with the
Testament of Beauty by Robert Bridges,
and quotations from Brooke and Shelley;
and adds quite a lot of terse and readable
information upon the lives of early French
painters, Scottish painters, etc. The result
is very much as if a French girl were to
read the Encyclopcedia Britannica aloud
for 20 or 30 pages under the impression
that it would constitute a declaration of
her affection for some desirable English-
man —you would hardly be able to say
that any of the information thus ecstati-
cally conveyed was wrong . . . Still,
children, to whom this book is directed,
should pick up a good deal about various
schools of art from its astonishing col-
lection of enthusiastic facts.
* * * *
Descriptive Catalogue of the Collection
of Firearms in the Museum of Applied
Science of Victoria : Edgar Howard
Penrose (Victoria Museums Trustees).
Itemised descriptions of 482 lethal
weapons from blunderbusses to centre-
fire Webley revolvers, Mark VI. Each
exhibit is photographed on one of the 14
plates. The most frightening exhibits for
the uninitiated are the large-bore spring
guns which, when the poacher tripped
over a wire, would train themselves upon
him, and fill him with slugs. Next is the
10ft., 1301 b. punt gun, capable of killing
80 to 120 ducks at one firing of its 21b.
charge of shot. The book is also helpful
to such as would be learned in the
mysteries of flint-lock, pin-fire, matchlock,
capping breech-loading, percussion, rim-
fire pistols, pepper-box pistols, etc. Per-
cussion-firing, which has ended the
troubles of so many sojourners in this
vale of tears, was invented by the
Reverend Alexander John Forsyth, M.A.,
LL.D., “a Presbyterian Minister of the
parish of Belhelvie, near Aberdeen,” m
1807.


ADVERTISING”
l/u
Sy-'rC'
★ ****★*★★★★****★*★★*★*★****★★★★****★*★*★★*★
******
Now! A modern dream comes true! Labour-saving
Streamlined, All-Steel Home Laboratory
A- - ' 7
If
m
m nmm
'mm am
■J
L' v. •
s'
m
i
7i ■ !
*=*
i?c-
-£
$S
A
j
<jS*«
P 1: *
■ ' :'
•••■ ’ ■>
m
■ ' v ' V ,
<,* x • v*. - m ',-*"
; .«#r
■
' ;' „ I T,
WM
m'~mm
m
S
i
r -
iK 9 :■ r^f«
• > - . -* «*. ja
■ ' - * '-~ jJH
- •*: * ■ v . *
m&k
mb
rr ~
' ■, v-;.-
h F
J- 8
■*
iri
■
0 I
■■Si
-
C
k ’
'
First release—-complete range of
Hygienic, Lacquered Kitchen Units
That dream kitchen you’ve been planning for so long can now really
come true! In gleaming all steel units, you can buy a complete set of
well-made Cupboards and the Sink. Draining board specially suited
to your kitchen. Range of 14 units from which to choose, all are
mouseproof and lacquered in new Ivory with contrasting plastic handles.
A. —3 ft. floor unit, 2 doors, 2 drawers. £l4/10/3
*
B .—6ft. floor unit, two doors. £l2/14/3
C—4 ft. 6 in. floor unit, sink extra. £l7/0/6
D,—3 ft. wall unit, two doors. Price, £B/16/-
E. —1 ft. Gin. wall unit, one door. £5/18/9
F. —1 ft. Gin. floor unit, four drawers. £ll/0/6
G. —3 ft. x Zft. corner unit , two doors. £2O/16/6
Available on easy terms. Mail/phone orders.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ KITCHEN FURNITURE DEPT.—FOURTH FLOOR. ’PHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3634
Wednesday, October 5, 1949
MARIE ANTOINETTE POLLARD REPLIES TO THE CLAMOR.
“The people cry out for more homes, more coal and more industrial security, madame.” ?
“Why don’t they just have a couple of beers and a few ice-creams and then go to the pictures.?"


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
MILK-BAR ECONOMY.
Vision of the benefits of “full employ-
ment” in the Socialist “Golden Age” of
Australia as seen by Marie Antoinette
Pollard, Minister for Commerce, and
testified by him in the House of Repre-
sentatives in an appeal to the people to
vote for the Chifley Government at the
coming elections, and so assure a bit
more of it;
The benefits the Labor Government
has brought to the people Children can
get as many ice-creams and go to the
pictures as often as they like; and the
workers —those who like to indulge in
that type of thing—can have as many
pots of beer as they like. Under Liberal-
Country-party Governments there was no
money to buy kiddies ice-cream. You
could go into a pub [“those who like that
sort of thing”] and see a solitary drinker
having a pot, but today you can go into
a hotel [the Liberal “pub” has become a
Socialist “hotel”] and see many at the bar.
Evidently under Socialism the beer, how-
ever synthetic, tastes better, and one
reason for that is possibly that it costs at
least 75 p.c. more. If, however, Mr.
Pollard thinks his Government could win
the elections on its record in improving
the flow of beer he would be well advised
first to gather his facts from bars other
than those of Parliament House.
Mr. Pollard’s extolling of his Govern-
ment’s ice-cream and milk-bar economy
has received respectable expert support.
In his latest attempt (the third within
the past 15 months) to get this fatuous
“Government” to tackle the dangerous
inflation which it has set up, Professor
Copland—once the Chifleyites’ star
planner, but he got out when Mr. Chifley
was preparing to yield to union pressure
which knocked the whole “transitional”
planning structure endways warned
Ministers of the utterly “unbalanced
national set-up,” the stagnation in de-
velopment of basic industries, and the
huge drift of employment into increased
production of cereal foods, ice-creams,
delicatessen stuffs and cricket-bats:
It would not be altogether inappropriate
to characterise the post-war economy as a
milk-bar economy.
“There is no overall plan,” he said—no
incentives to labor to go into the basic
industries or training of hands for them,
and those industries working much below
capacity. A few months earlier he had
declared:
The position is not so very different from
that of the ’twenties —a fundamental dis-
equilibrium reminiscent of that which pre-
ceded the depression—in that the country’s
prosperity is still linked with the volume
and value of exports.
In fact, any sort of a cramped or
flimsy “house” costs twice as much as
it would have cost (if the householder
had been content with such a structure)
before the war under Liberal-Country-
party Government; and, as with every-
thing else the palsied Socialist hand has
touched, there is a vast difference be-
tween the “theoretical” cost and the
actual cost of “Golden Age” peoples’
homes, as everybody knows. On the
wharves, where flourish the “cushiest”
jobs in the country, cargo-shifting has
dropped to about a third of that in pre-
war days; in the shipping industry
Federal control has just about ruined
both the trade and the working hands
engaged in it; and in the pastoral in-
dustry the A.W.U. is now demanding a
rise in weekly wages for shed-hands
(with keep) from £8 4s. Id. to £23 10s.,
for woolpressers from £lO 9s. 2d. to £36,
for shearers from £3 10s. to £7 10s. a
hundred, and general station-hands (with
keep) from £5 4s. 4d. to £l4. Even Mr.
Pollard, questioned by a Country-party
member, admitted that, as an offset to the
glorious flow of ice-cream and beer, steel
production for 1948-49 was down over
13 per cent, on the previous year, and
that year was bad enough.
Bolstering their economy on dollar-
credits only slightly less obviously than
their opposite numbers in London, the
Canberra Socialists’ standard of prosperity
for the masses is that children “can now
go to the pictures as often as they like.”
On Mr. Chifley’s parallel arguments for
restoring petrol - rationing, presumably
you cannot go to the pictures without
using dollars; but this is an enterprise
which, like beer, no Socialist would
dream of proposing to control, especially
just before an election. The great archi-
tect of the “Golden Age” has in fact
expressly disowned any intention of
nationalising “ice-cream carts and rag-
shops and things of that character.” If he
can’t get adequate production from
“full employment” in any other direction,
at least he can go to the country arm-in-
arm with Mr. Pollard, “standing on his
record” in production of ice-cream, beer
(or at least beer-money), and round-the-
clock movie shows.
There is one regrettable deficiency.
The Canberra Socialists will not be able
to plume themselves for this election—
and the sighs at Yarralumla can be dis-
tinctly heard —on one achievement which
the Socialist Government in New Zealand
has dished up for the electors. This is
(according to an enthusiastic Dunedin de-
scription) “an electronic totalisator
capable of the lightning calculation of
bets from all over the country”:
This revolutionary new machine can cope
with bets at phenomenal speed and will
largely solve the problem of administration
of off-the-course betting when the State
system comes into operation It is
claimed that it can deal with bets at the
rate of 3000 a minute. The Postmaster-
General was “greatly impressed; it ap-
peared to the human eye to operate faster
than lightning.”
But even though the boys in the
“Golden Age” back-room have fallen
down on the job of providing the
Chifleyites with an election-winner like
this, the A.L.P. band-wagon will still have
Mr. Chifley himself, posed as “standing
on his record,” for the seduction of the
electors. The banner-portraits of him
which his party will be able to parade
during the campaign will have to be much
smaller than Hitler’s were, or Stalin’s are,
in the prototype totalitarian States, elec-
tion posters being strictly limited in
dimensions by the A.L.P.’s own ordinance
in that particular. But in the same elec-
tioneering (Budget) debate which Mr.
Pollard richly adorned, a party colleague
on somewhere about the same level of
regard for the electors’ intelligence, Mr.
loseph Ignatius Langtry, raised, ostensibly
on behalf of the Riverina, this portrait
of Mr. Chifley which beats Moscow’s
pictorial idolatry of Stalin quite hollow;
Mr. Chifley (he said) is recognised the
world over as one of the best men the
world has ever produced.
Yet after the Bank Grab Bill even the
shire of Abercrombie declined to re-elect
him.
And the milk-bar economy does not
earn dollars. For two years now Mr.
Chifley has been protesting that “there
is no mumbo-jumbo about the dollar
shortage.” Nor is there. His Socialist
economy simply could not live on its
dollar earnings, nor could Socialist
Britain. For more than two years Mr.
Chifley has been appealing to the unions
which support his Government to get
down to hard work in order to ease the
dollar strain. They have simply jeered
at him —both for expecting the workers
not to enjoy the Socialist good times in
their own fashion and currency, and for
his taxation levies, which made the
whole country allergic to “working for
Chifley,” as they put it. But the “mumbo-
jumbo” over revaluation of Socialist
currencies, the posturing and the pre-
tences and the cynical refusal of both
Governments to reduce the huge overhead
of Socialist administrative costs in order
to give export production a fair spin—
together with the setting of both com-
munities by the ears with crank socialisa-
tion schemes which made any long-range
sustained export campaign impossible
the mumbo-jumbo over this economic
mountebankery has put all African witch-
doctor stunts in the shade.
The British Socialists are now in a
fight for their political lives, and the
success of what wears all the appearance
of another temporary expedient depends
entirely on whether a pampered “Labor”
following will accept at the eleventh-hour
the pegging of wages and the curtailment
of extravagant “social benefits.” That
day is hastening on fast towards Aus-
tralia, too. Is Mr. Chifley going to shape
up to the perils on the revaluation path
awaiting a Government which cannot
command discipline in the unions? For
the ultimate resort in currency manipula-
tion by the planners of the Collectivist
State is that used by their exemplar in
Moscow, whereby the entire national
currency was repudiated overnight, and
for every 10 useless paper roubles
surrendered the individual —except the
top bureaucrats, who got off better—re-
ceived in return one new rouble. As
Professor Copland has remarked, this did
indeed demand rigid enforcement of
social discipline.
Then was seen forced “full employ-
ment” at a required tempo, on penalty of
arrest and starvation, and Soviet weekly
working hours rose to 56. Mumbo-
jumbo didn’t get even a look-in.
Canberra and the Soviet
Bomb.
The uproar about Russia’s possession
and explosion of an a{om-bomb has
grown so satisfyingly that Marshal Stalin
must feel that the expense of the blast
has been fully paid for in free publicity
of the right sort.
The first reporters of the disturbance —
seismologists all —seem to have mistaken
the noise for that of an earthquake. But
“the United States Intelligence Service”
has established to its own satisfaction
that the noise was atomic. Its experts
are evidently better analysts of what takes
place at a distance than the Australian
weather-men.
At the end of a week the whole world
had been soaked in nuclear news of the
explosion, which had been remarkably
well timed, occurring on the very edge
of the meeting of U.N.O. Assembly and
providing a curious gauge by which the
world’s faith in that remarkable organisa-
tion can be measured. Not one news-
paper among the hundreds which in
1945-46 were as enthusiastic about U.N.O.
as they were about Russia in 1944-45 has
with any show of confidence suggested
that Dr. Evatt’s discarded Assembly might
stave off the disaster which nearly all
prophets now predict for the world as
a result of Russian advances in science.
It appears that not only has Russia the
bomb, but it also has the aircraft to use
it, not to mention a “vast underground”
munition plant at Peenemunde, on the
Baltic, home of the VI and V 2, where
German scientists are supposed, with the
aid of p.0.w., to be making a rocket
which is capable of being fired “5000
miles”—farther than from Moscow to
New York —and at the end of the journey
distributing “eight or ten bombs” in such
a manner as to “spread destruction over
an area of three square miles.” Seeing
that the V2s with a warhead of about
one ton weighed 14 tons and could be
projected a distance of under 200 miles,
sometimes only to within a mile of the
point aimed at, and more often not, the
Russians certainly seem to have made
remarkable advances.
The three square miles which apparently
sane newspapers suggest that one of the
new terrors will devastate is considerably
more than the Hiroshima atom-bomb
laid in ruins. And if Marshal Stalin can
hit a given three square miles of country
at 5000 miles, or even three square miles
of any given country, in the existing state
of ballistic science, he has become a
miracle-worker.
The oddest feature of what has taken
place and of the reception with which the
news has been given in those places at
which the Russian atom-bomb might be
aimed is the steadiness of nerve which
has been shown in Canberra.
Mr. Attlee can be pardoned for remain-
ing calm, since he is Prime Minister of
a nation which is still going to vast
expense in keeping up a large permanent
Army, in reconditioning a badly-
depleted Navy and reorganising the
R.A.F. by building new ranges of aircraft,
the like of which the world has never
before seen, one of the fastest and most
efficient of which has been named, either in
irony or as a broad hint, the “Canberra.”
But among the high-priests of push-
button warfare, where nobody seems
alarmed so long as there are five defence
Ministers in office surrounded by groups
of highly-paid secretaries and panicky
scientists, one might have expected
immediate reactions, especially since Aus-
tralia is even more accessible to three-
square-mile rockets than the United
States.
The news, however, has not perturbed
either Mr, Chifley or his expensive
Defence Minister, Mr, Dedman. Both
say that they do not know what the fuss
is about, and Mr. Chifley says that, any-
how, if he wants to build an atomic-bomb
factory, one of his scientists tells him
that it can be done for £20,000,000 —
presumably plus dollar inflation.
A mere £20,000,000 to a Government
which has inflated the note-issue to
£210,000,000 and increased the civil ser-
vice from 47,000 to 131,000 in a few
years is chicken-feed. And there is no
need for the Canberra boys to go into the
question of how long it would take
to build an atom-bomb factory under
conditions of secrecy in a land in
which two years is about the record
for building a 2000-ton destroyer
with four 4.5-inch guns and in which
the Snowy River scheme, which is being
put forward as an urgent defence pro-
ject, is expected to be finished in 25 years.
From the point of view of Mr. Chifley
and his offsiders it is just as well that
there should be no perturbation, because
it would be very awkward for them if
they took the threat of the Russian bomb
seriously and were compelled to deal with
it by force of drastic preparations.
Those preparations would involve vast
operations in coal production, in the
metal industries and in building. And
to carry them out effectively they would
have to be conducted in great secrecy.
It would be impossible to do this under
present circumstances because the main
unions involved in the work would be
such as the Ironworkers, the Building
Workers’ Industrial Union, the Sheet-
metal Workers, the Boilermakers, the
Wire-workers and some of the transport
unions. Many of the leaders of these
bodies are officials of the Communist
party, of which the slogan is “Defend
Soviet Russia” and which has described
Stalin within the past few years in official
rescripts as “our beloved teacher,” “our
great leader,” “our great inspiration,” and
by other endearing phfases.
The Canberra “Labor” Government
at present has about as much chance
of building any major defence work
without the Communists having a
complete blueprint of it and giving
it approval as they have of earning the
confidence of the United States Govern-
ment far enough to get the information
needed for atom-bomb manufacture.
They are in the dilemma that they
cannot build without union co-operation,
since they must observe awards and allow
them to be policed. And they cannot
have them policed without allowing Com-
munists, non-party or otherwise, to do
much of the policing. If they attempted to
prevent this being done, the Communist
party would get annoyed, and there would
be trouble inside “Labor” itself.
Certain it is that whoever does make
the Australian defence policy is not much
concerned about this country’s capacity
for repelling invaders. There can be no
other explanation for the condition of
defence and for the manner in which,
behind a facade of falsity and delusion,
the Services are being allowed to fall to
pieces.
The Ladies—Bless 'Em!
Spring and the imminent Federal elec-
tion caused a handful of ladies to burst
forth with demands for more women in
the Parliaments, greater political educa-
tion of women and so forth. Do women
really need either? All history is
conscious of their power in politics, for
behind every famous politician and every
famous political development stand the
women who inspired them. It is man, not
woman, who needs greater political edu-
cation, for if man was as practical as
woman and only half as jealous about
his rights his politics would be much
more sensible.
If women don’t appear in the Parlia-
ments it is because of two things. The
single woman is top busy trying to get
a husband and the married woman is too
busy trying to keep a husband, home and
family safe from the effects of man’s
politics.
Reams of tosh are written about
“career girls” and “woman’s place in in-
dustry” and so forth, but there isn’t a
spinster who will refuse marriage with the
right man and its reward of motherhood,
simply because the feminine heart knows
that beyond and above everything civilisa-
tion rests upon the family and the home.
That thousands of women are denied
marriage, children and homes, that thou-
sands marry and share flats or live with
in-laws and go to work is neither the
will nor the desire of women ; it is an
evil arising from man’s politics. If men
want it that way, and it seems they do,
there isn’t much women can do about it
except sigh and wish the men would wake
up, and meantime hope that all the poli-
tical promises of homes may some day
be fulfilled.
Some of them arise and speak forcibly
about these things and insist they would
be corrected if women entered Parlia-
ment. Heaven forbid they should be
silent or their aspirations denied ; whether
they can persuade their sisters to agree
with them is another matter.
Thousands of women are members of
labor unions. How many of them ever
attend union meetings, or seek election
to union positions? In this matter, as
in politics, they instinctively know that
all the fuss and fume of politics is a
man-made boiling. Whatever the party
label of a Government, woman must still
keep the home, rear the children, care
for the man. And if she isn’t already
doing it she either wishes she was or
hopes for the time when she will be.
Which is why, this spring, men are con-
cerned with politics at home and abroad,
with business and taxes and party
policies, whereas the working girl gazes
wistfully at the “spring shows” in shop-
windows and wonders if she can spin out
her wages to get what she wants, and
rubs shoulders with the housewife who,
string-bag crammed with the family food,
also gazes wistfully, wondering whether
to spend the pound she’s saved on stock-
ings for herself or new pants and shoes
for little Albert.
Neither of them really believes that
any political party matters very much,
since politics is a man’s business and men
are such fools.
C.S.


PLATN ENGLISH
Red— and Yellow, Too.
Last week in Parliament the Prime
Minister tried to dodge questions about
what he had said n nli™ /Widinn
•u ok » ? dto policy-deciding
Labor conferences a year ago on (1)
compulsory direction of labor, and (2)
industries which had been selected for
nationalisation
l ? n 7^1 10n ’ . , . ■
Mr. Chifley wouldn t come clean ; but
the Socialists’ official journal gave the
Story at the time. This was how Chifley
i.~ . , 3
spoke on compulsory direction of labor
under its guarantee of full employment”
to the special union conference in Sydney
on October 17, 1948: —
In the event of work falling off in
industry because of oversea depression or
other causes....the Government would
guarantee full employment. There might
be times when it could not guarantee that
workers would stay put in their own par-
bfJSrk-foTSi. d ely
We realise that there may have to be
transfers of workers, and in some cases
whole communities, to other forms of
work. It is quite certain that everybody
will not be able to stay at home, because
there will have to be transfers of labor if
to e fool S a?ybV?b“S°?hat. r “ DOt 801118
The Government’s policy is to provide
jobs for all the people all the time, and
no one can say where at any time.
All this Mr. Chifley last week tried* to
represeqt in Parliament as amounting
to merely “a transfer of workers
from (say) Warragamba dam when that
is finished to similar jobs elsewhere.”
Well, the conference at the time didn’t
so construe it, and was highly disturbed
ahnnt the PM’c anwpr
‘ J
Mr. Chifley was also questioned as to
what industries he had told an earlier
“Labor” gathering he had “selected for
nationalisation.” The P.M. replied that
“the Government had never selected”
such a list, and that “decision for nation-
alisation would be made only in the light
of circurnstances which .warranted it in
the public interest.”
But this is what he said last
October, as reported in the official
“Labor” journal, bearing the special im-
print—“ Carefully preserve this issue so
that you will have a full record of Labor’s
Federal policy”;
I have always said that if there is a
grea / public utility that is badly managed
or handled [in the Socialists’ opinion, of
course] it should be nationalised p Natlo ’ nal .
ising hamburgers or ice-cream shops or
permanent waves is not our business,
have been making a selection of
really essential things for the well-being of
the community, so that we do not get
mixed up with things that do not matter,
The battle must continue, because in the
last twelve months there has been a great
blast of criticism... .vested interests having
got through the war because of the Labof
Government.
That was the conference at which a
committee, appointed to report, recom-
mended a watering-down of the party’s
socialist ohicctivc nnnnm.hr
SOCl f llSt Objective as unpopular The
conference rejected the advice, reaffirmed
the Red plank — on which Chifley speci-
ally congratulated it—and ordered the
progressive nationalisation of
banking, credit and insurance, monopolies
[sted is always included under this], ship-
Ping* public health [the medical and dental
professions already under fire], radio ser-
vices, sugar-refining.
This list accords with that issued as a
recommendation to the Federal party
Irom the A.L.P. Conference of N.S.W.
of 1945-46 for “the development of the
policy of socialisation of industry.” That
recommendation included the establish-
ment of a National Planning Council
(already adopted in previous years by the
Federal A.L.P.), whose job would be:
To plan the volume and direction of
production and distribution [i.e., regimen-
tatl?n of all industry],
To co-ordinate the remaining private
section of industry with the nationalised
section, and
To control prices.
And Mr. Chifley, along with all others
in his party, specifically pledged himself
to this complete socialisation of industry
as a condition of being selected for his
“Labor” seat in Parliament. That he
won’t now admit it is because he wants
to try to dupe the electors again as he
did at the elections in 1946.
Dodo or Phoenix?
Picking up the bank-nationalisation
brick he had dropped in Canberra, Eddie
Ward went over to Perth and dropped it
again, this time at the Trades Hall, where
he told unionists that “once the Labor
movement decided as a whole that the
private banks would be nationalised, they
would be, and nothing could stop it.”
For good measure he went on to speak
of “other great monopolies in Australia”
which ought to be nationalised, and gave
it as his opinion that “Australians had to
be big enough to allow Governments
greater constitutional powers. The Com-
monwealth Government should be clothed
with complete power.”
Back in Canberra the feeling among his
colleagues that Eddie had been and gone
and done it again was very evident. No
one actually disowned the man from East
Sydney, but Williams (Robertson) and
others were quickly on their feet pro-
claiming that bank-nationalisation was
“as dead as the dodo,” and trying to
convey the impression that the Govern-
ment intended to accept the Privy
Council’s decision in a sporting spirit as
the last word on the subject—this despite
the fact that the details of and the reasons
for that decision have not yet been dis-
closed.
Mr. Chifley, challenged outright to say
whether the Government intended to take
a referendum on banking concurrently
with the Federal election, replied that
there was no intention to take a refer-
endum on that or any other subject. In
reference to Ward’s remarks he implied
that the Minister was expressing his own
opinion, and added, “This Government is
not going to be a party to any procedure
that does not conform with the Consti-
tution.” Nobody has suggested that the
Prime Minister had an£ intention of tear-
ing up the Constitution, but more than
one of his followers have hinted that there
are ways of getting around it. Ward, for
instance, has suggested packing the High
Court, and Senator Armstrong told an
A MATTER OF TECHNIQUE.
"Two former P.M.G. employees were given jail sentences in Sydney for accepting bribes from applicants for telephones. One of the
accused said he had seen others do it. A departmental inquiry has been ordered.”
“You want a telephone installed, you say? Wrong number. But try dialling a fiver first.”
A.L.P. convention at Goulburn that
“there are men of sufficient ingenuity in
the Cabinet who will see that the Act is
brought into existence.”
What is needed from the Prime
Minister is something more than a de-
claration that he does not intend a refer-
endum. Of course he doesn’t; he knows
only too well how it would go. But in
his policy speech Mr. Chifley must state
positively and unequivocally just what
his intentions are in respect of banking.
If bank-nationalisation is as dead as the
dodo it is up to him to allay the sus-
picions of those who fear the dead bird
may turn out to be a phoenix.
Television in Britain.
From London: That television has come
to stay no one would dispute. A long
settee, made in crescent form to facili-
tate easy viewing, is the latest develop-
ment.
The H-shaped aerials are now so
familiar in the southern counties that they
no longer arouse interest except perhaps
as to where surplus money is to be found.
And even when allowance has been made
for hire-purchase, judicious barter of
pianos and full employment the results
can often be surprising. In father’s day
it was a billiard-table (“Keep Your Boys
at Home”), and it is probable that family
life, if more than three or so, is con-
sidered incomplete without the nightly
“viewing.”
To those who hope ultimately to enjoy
entertainment and instruction of this kind
in their own homes a word or two may
be timely. For important sporting or
national events television is unquestion-
ably the next-best thing: it may, indeed,
be better than that. But there are
dangers. The instrument readily becomes
an anodyne, a too-handy relief from
boredom.
The discerning may not always find
the choice of programme to their liking.
Photogenic charm among some an-
nouncers can be so thickly plastered on
that it becomes nauseating. The pro-
grammes tend to be ironed out with the
same kind of arbitrary discretion as is
associated with Hollywood censors or
sponsors of commercial radio. Nothing
—nothing at all—must give grounds for
controversy or objection.
The present attitude of the 8.8. C. sug-
gests that no licence-money is to be turned
away, and therefore no person’s suscepti-
bilities are to be offended, whether old,
young, moron, squeamish, narrow-minded
or pharisaic.
Perhaps the written word and the live
drama are safe enough after all.
Standover Tactics.
Petrol-rationing is to be fastened on
the Australian public again before
Christmas, and probably before the elec-
tions. The State Premiers could not really
stand out against the central Government
in Canberra once Mr. Chifley had told
them that, if he could not contitutionally
ration petrol, at least he could and would
reduce imports.
All of the States have wished to wash
their hands of the dark business ; it is
not only unpopular, but it is highly
suspect. Mr. Chifley is committed to an
unpopular course, anyway, having burnt
his boats and plunged across the socialisa-
tion Rubicon ; “there must be casualties,”
he has said, and control of prices is neces-
sary for the establishment of the Socialist
State. Control of prices goes hand-in-
hand with rationing of the commodities
so controlled, and Socialism is impos-
sible in conditions of free supply and
marketing of goods. For Socialism is the
negation of freedom of commercial enter-
prise, and inhibited enterprise spells
scarcity.
Three of the six States have finally
agreed to accept rationing, not under
Commonwealth authority but by
adoption for a term of the regime the
Commonwealth applies in the Capital
Territory and the other three States. They
are thus free to abandon it when they
wish and bring the evil to an end as soon
as possible.
A petrol-starved public can hardly fail
to vent its resentment against the Can-
berra Socialists on election-day. The
public has been given none of the reasons
for Chifley’s pressure on the States, save
that Australia under Chifley rule cannot
earn dollars to pay for its petrol needs,
and the Socialist-planned economy has no
resources whatever for setting the
country to earn them. Indeed, as over-
seas prices for our staple primary
exports decline—as surely they must —
we shall, if the current Government
excuses mean anything, be able to import
only less petrol as time goes on. Mr.
Chifley has not told the country why it
cannot import more today, or how much
it is importing anyway, or how much of
those imports he is storing up (to
deteriorate?) under his legislation to
ŵ


.
mm
■
m
mmm
Immk
iOPS
illlß
mmk
. V
■:■<:■■>■
rn®mm
” °, ■- •
'■wmm
■m-. iOjj:- - SpW
CARRERAS LTD.-OVER 150 YEARS’ REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
CRAVENA
—for your
throat’s sake!
Obtainable in
10's & 20’s
9*4
6745
create petrol reserves for defence and
other purposes. The order which he said
he issued last week to Ministers and de-
partmental heads, that “petrol used shall
be reduced as far as essential needs
allow,” offers no real assurance that Gov-
ernment consumers will not burn up more
petrol than ever. Why not ration them,
too?
Of course there was a heavier demand
for petrol as soon as rationing was de-
clared invalid. The coal strike assured
that; but the strike was not the public’s
fault. There has, in fact, been no testing
period yet, free from strikes or Govern-
ment threats of short supplies, in which
the public’s normal petrol consumption
could be measured.
The restoration of petrol-rationing is a
disgrace to Australia’s trading capacity,
to its business enterprise, and (above all)
to its Government. It is impossible to
believe, on such official “explanation” as
has appeared, that it is anything but a
political racket originating partly in the
sheer ineptitude of our political' rulers
and partly on their impenitent forcing of
a regime of scarcity on the people for
purely Socialist ends.
The Commonwealth Investigation
Bureau has admitted that during the
petrol-rationing era which was ended by
the High Court on June 6 this year the
“illegal” supply of petrol from the black-
market exceeded permitted purchases by
1,000,000 gallons a year in N.S.W. alone.
That is the volume officially admitted.
The public can multiply that figure by
any factor suggested by its own experi-
ence.
POLITICAL POINTS
McGirr, who beat the gun in 1947 to
bring in the 40-hour week as election
bait and later whinged when that bene-
volence contributed to his thumping rail-
ways deficit, is at it again—with another
election due in six months. At a Six-
Hours Day dinner at Sydney Trades Hall
on Saturday night he blithered about the
Machine Age and said that “We will not
be content with 40 hours” ; there must be
a further reduction. Becoming more
profound, he explained that men were
now more technically-minded, but “the
machines were still their servants.” This
is hardly the case with McGirr; his
advocacy of a still-shorter, week at a
time when production is falling shows
him to be very much the servant of the
“Labor” machine.
Chifley does not now speak of the
Golden Age, but the McGirr speech,
taken in conjunction with Pollard’s recent
vaporings and the current wage-claims of
the A.C.T.U. and A.W.U., suggests that
the “Labor” movement is working out a
recipe for it. The composite picture is
something like this: A one-hour week
with a basic wage of £3O ; a race meeting
every day; trots, dog-racing and slug-
ging-matches every night; seven monster
lotteries a week ; compulsory retirement
on full pay at 18 ; free beer and ice-
creams from cradle to grave. Motive-
power for the whole set-up to be sup-
plied by atomic energy worked by a
press-button scientist ensconced deep
down in an underground fastness in the
Snowy River country.
The conduct ih the Chair of Acting-
Speaker Joe Clark, of the Representa-
tives, recently brought down three sepa-
rate motions of censure. Last week
Country-party member Anthony rose to
ask a question on what Chifley had told
a special “Labor” conference a year ago.
“Labor” benches started a howl of inter-
ruption, and Acting-Speaker Clark called
out to stop Anthony with the provocative
charge, “The hon. member was not here
yesterday” and conveyed a presump-
tion that the subject of the question was
Chifley’s statement on conscription of
labor under his depression-geared works
programme, about which Chifley had been
questioned on the previous day, “No-
thing to do with that,” said Anthony.
“You haven’t heard my question” ; and
proceeded to ask what industries Chifley
had “selected for nationalisation” in
accordance with his statement of last
October. Needless to say, Chifley side-
stepped.
Wide apart as the poles though their
opinions were on most of the matters
touched on in the devaluation debate,
Cripps and Churchill agreed on one point
—that Britain will ultimately “emerge”
from her present troubles. Cripps thinks
the emergence will come through Social-
ism ; Churchill, in spite of it.
In his hurry to get returned servicemen
on the land, Sheahan, the N.S.W. Minister
for Lands, seems to have run away with
himself. He proposes arbitrarily to ter-
minate leaseholds in the State’s Western
Division and turn the seized lands over to
settlers. He needs to be pretty sure of
what he is doing; land now giving one
man a living out in the saltbush might
give two nothing but tragedy.
The Broadcasting Control Board order
which was to have had the effect of forc-
ing all stations to give radio time to the
Voice of Moscow is to be redrafted —
even Calwell called it stupid, and surely
he should know —but one even more
blatant as an example of political oppor-
tunism remains. It provides that where
a station has been giving free time to a
political broadcast for three months
before an election campaign there shall
be no obligation to give other parties
similar time as is the case with all other
political broadcasts. The only two
broadcasts which come under this head
are Chifley’s Sunday-night platitudes and
a chat by Fraser, “Labor” member for
Eden-Monaro.
In the 1946 election campaign the
A.B.C. allowed the Communist party to
broadcast a policy speech on the grounds
that it was running a certain number of
candidates; this year the privilege will
not be granted, although more Comrades
than ever before are to be nominated.
A.B.C. says the reason for the altered
policy is that the voting at the last elec-
tion showed that the Communist party
did not represent any large body of Aus-
tralian opinion. That’s true enough, but
it’s only a couple of months since the
Commission refused Queensland Premier
Hanlon a few minutes in which to talk
to the people of his State on the coal
strike ; the reason given was that it would
not be fair to do so unless the miners’
leaders (Communists) were given the
same privilege. Whatever the reason for
the latest move, it gets the Federal Gov-
ernment and its Broadcasting Control
Board out of an embarrassing position.
Calwell has been entrusted with the
job of working out itineraries for Federal
Ministers during the election campaign.
If he is wise the Ward itinerary will read
something like this: “You will fly direct
to Timbuctu, thence proceeding by easy
stages to Tierra del Fuego, calling en
route at Spitzbergen, Lhasa, and Tristan
da Cunha, On no account return to Aus-
tralia before December 10.”
In Sydney and Melbourne the P.M.G.’s
Department is grabbing large blocks of
flats to house its employees. If the de-
housed are someone else’s employees in
need of shelter, that’s too bad.
The kiss that welcomed the fifty-
thousandth D.P. may not live as long in
legend as the face that launched a
thousand ships, but it’s well on the way.
In the Reps, last Wednesday Calwell was
in full blast. Waving a document from
which he had been quoting, he announced
“An admirer of mine sent me this. I
have millions of admirers qround Aus-
tralia.” An Opposition voice inquired
sweetly, “Do you kiss them all?”
Crime, as every Socialist knows, is a
matter of environment; bad social
systems breed criminals. It is therefore
a little surprising to read that almost
20,000 persons are at present compul-
sory guests of his Majesty’s prisons in
Britain—the highest number for nearly
40 years, and 7000 more than when the
Attlee Government took over in 1945.
Of course, it may be that the conditions
in the Socialist jails are so much more
attractive than they used to be.
While Playford was talking petrol-
rationing with McGirr a bunch of his
police were rampaging through Port
Adelaide, pouncing on sellers of tickets
in “inter-State Playford’s
Attorney-General is to decide whether
prosecutions will follow. McGirr, whose
State runs the biggest lott’ry, is un-
ruffled. Nobody can prosecute him.
There seems to be a competition going
on among “Labor” Parliamentarians to
see who can produce the most fulsome
praise of Chifley. It has become almost
a commonplace with them to describe
him as another Abe Lincoln ; even Doc.
Evatt, who should know better, weighed
in with that one recently—a fact which
must have caused his leader a slight un-
easiness. Last week Commerce Minister
Pollard, in the mellowing atmosphere of
a civic dinner at Ballarat, hailed him as
“the greatest Prime Minister Australia
has ever known,” which seems to be the
sort of verdict properly reserved for
history rather than voiced by a Cabinet
colleague with a dubious hold on his seat.
Not to be outdone, Langtry, who repre-
sents and occasionally talks on behalf of
Riverina, told the House and the listen-
ing public that the P.M. was one of the
greatest men the world had ever pro-
duced, Flattery is a dangerous present;
the trouble is that the recipient may come
to believe it.
When a meat-trade man told Queens-
landers that beef would be “seriously
short” in Brisbane for a couple of weeks
at least, Acting-Premier Gair announced
that his Government would “acquire
cattle if it found any grazier holding them
from the market.” So that Abattoirs Bill
does permit the forcible seizure of private
property by the Hanlon Government.
Lemmon, supporting the Chifley “reces-
sion plan”:
The building of schools, hospitals and
houses will ensure that the industries asso-
ciated with building—iron and steel, bricks
and tiles, and interior fittings—are guaran-
teed a continuing demand for their products.
They have a continuing demand now and
for the next 20 years. They can’t satisfy
it because of the general policy followed
by the Government of which this
Lemmon is a typical adornment.
All these starry-eyed people who
espouse Communism though they’ve
never been short of money themselves
ought to study an order issued to Czecho-
slovakian police. They can’t marry a
girl unless she is a Communist, the
daughter of Communists “who come from
the working-class.” The worst and
silliest Communists don’t come from the
working-class; they’re mainly frustrates
of the moneyed and professional classes.
What’s more, they’re usually the first
casualties in a successful revolution,
Chifley threw out another bit of elec-
tion bait with the announcement that his
Government proposes to spend £900,000
a year on Commonwealth scholarships
for about 3000 students. The money
would have been better spent if given to
the States to build and repair schools and
employ more teachers.
As “Sentinel,” a well-known “Labor”
spokesman granted space in Brisbane
“Courier-Mail,” sees the future;
Some day Labor will see to it that a
refrigerator, vacuum-cleaner, washing-
machine and the dozen and one different
household appliances become as readily
available as a telephone, hired on the same
principle and replaced when it goes wrong.
Who kidded “Sentinel” that telephones
are readily available?
Unearned increment is filthy stuff with
which no Communist —or, for that matter,
no Socialist —would dream of soiling his
hands. It is the profit a man makes by
buying a block of land for, say, £lOO and
selling it for £2OO. It must not be con-
fused with the “socially useful” rake-off
which the Comrades have made on Marx
House, just resold to the Coal Board. They
bought the building from the Green
Coupon concern in 1944 for £30,000; it
is costing the Coal Board £50,000.
“Labor” hopes of a dissolution of the
Victorian Parliament and an early elec-
tion were dashed last week when six
members of the Country party crossed
the House and voted with the Govern-
ment to defeat an amendment to the
Latrobe Valley Development Bill pro-
posed by their party-leader, McDonald.
Their reason was that they could not have
justified the amendment to their electors
or to themselves. The McDonald party
debated whether or not to take action
against the rebels, but decided against
it, apparently deciding that half-loyalty
was better than none at all.
The rule that all Australian ships must
be built in Australia apparently does not
apply to the men who have to run them ;
the Chifleys are importing an English
chairman for their Commonwealth Ship-
ping line. In fairness to the bloke it is
to be hoped they have explained exactly
what they are letting him in for.
The “Sunday Sun” newshound who, 10
days ago, splashed the story that Chifley
and Attlee were making a joint approach
to the International Monetary Fund for
a large loan is sticking to his guns despite
apparent denials from Canberra and
London. He points out that the Prime
Minister, in replying to questions on this
subject, said that Australia had not yet
made any application, and he regards the
word “yet” as all-important. In London
the “Financial Times,” commenting on
the report, said;
Mr. Chifley has acquired such a reputa-
tion for letting the cat out of the bag in
the matter of developments affecting the
sterling area that any kind of news on the
affairs of the area originating in Australia
is apt to be taken seriously these days,
however improbable it may appear.
The “Sun” man did not comment on the
P.M.’s alleged reputation for freeing
felines from captivity or his own contri-
bution to the latest liberation, but on an-
other page he offered fulsome praise
of Chifley’s handling of the petrol
barney.
Despite a strong plea on his behalf by
Calwell, Maxie Falstein’s application for
endorsement for the Watson seat has
been rejected by the A.L.P. executive.
D. Curtin, who won the pre-selection
ballot earlier in the year, remains the
official “Labor” candidate. There’s no-
thing to stop Maxie from running as an
independent, but he is more likely to con-
centrate on his campaign for election to
the committee of the Sydney Turf
Club.
The projected increased butter price of
2|d. a pound has fallen, like soldier-
settlement, between the States and the
Commonwealth. Canberra accepted the
Advisory Committee’s findings; the
States want Canberra to raise its subsidy
so as to save them the embarrassment of
popping on the rise by price-fixing. When
this was written the Prices Ministers were
in Hobart, talking it over.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”: As distinct from the old-time
formal ball at which one was virtually
pinned to a wall-seat for a rather dry
night, I am all for the modern way of
grouping at tables, where one may ingest
a quiet noggin if one wishes between the
more strenuous phases of the evening,
and move around freely among the
members of one’s own party. And, if
sufficient noggins are ingested, one’s
senses may even be deadened to the re-
volting modem practice of making the
drums the major musical instrument of
the orchestra. But there is one inexorable
corollary to the modern ball which re-
mains a horror: the photographer with
his million-candlepower lights in front of
which the male dancer is vigorously
dragged several times during the night by
his womenfolk. Coming straight out of
softly-dimmed places he stares popeyed
in the awful glare, and if he is sufficiently
"I lost the first one, then the second I sliced badly and the third I never
saw any more."
a mug not to lose the fistful of tickets
he is given he will eventually cough up
for a photo which will make him look
like some fanatical hot-gospeller or a
drunk who is observing, coming upon
him, an alligator on stilts, carrying a
shopping-basket and wearing a burglar’s
mask. Were I a dictator I would round
up all such pestiferous spoilers of a night’s
innocent amusement and, in the glare of
about 100 searchlights, make ’em take
each other’s photos until they agreed to
adopt some other vocation less inimical
to man’s peace of mind.
* * * *
“King’s Arc”: The blokes who have
my sympathy are the police detailed to
the thankless job of trying to control the
intrepid Sydneyside pedestrians during
the lunch-hours. Unofficial reports tell
me that at least three promising young
cops have had to be certified after a spell
of this duty, and that it costs many
others at least half their wages for
enough strong drink each night after they
finish duty to help them drown their
sorrows. At the Martin-place-George-
street crossing the other day I saw the cop l
in the middle of the street vainly attempt-
ing to halt the flow of humanity and
wave the cars onward. He had about as
much chance of stopping the rush as a
half-trained kelpie of stopping a mob of
breaking lambs. The cars answered his
wave and began to plough along as best
they could. Young and old made desperate
dives for the kerb, where they were
greeted by another policeman who kept
calling this advice: “Don’t take any
notice of the signals. Get knocked over.
We’ll pick you up and carry you to
hospital.” If Senator McKenna meets
this cop he’ll probably get him to add to
his refrain a plug about free medical
attention.
* * * *
“Becks”: Several times recently there
have been cabled references to a move-
ment to restore the Bavarian monarchy
with ex-Crown Prince Rupprecht as king.
At 80 the old boy is probably not very
interested in the plan, and, anyway,
Bavaria is pretty small beer compared
with what some of his supporters con-
sider his legitimate heritage—a small but
persistently loyal band of traditionalists
regards him as the rightful occupant of
the British throne. By their reckoning the
Jacobite line did not die out when Bonnie
Prince Charlie’s brother Henry Cardinal
died in 1807 ; it merely reverted to the
heirs of Henrietta, sister of James 11, who
married Philip, Duke of Orleans. Her
daughter Anne Marie married Victor
Amadeus, King of Sardinia, so that when
the Jacobite “King Henry IX” died he
was “succeeded” by Anne’s great-grand-
son, under the title Victor I, whose succes-
sors have been Marie Beatrice, Ferdinand
I, Marie Therfese, Louis I and the present
“legitimist” sovereign, Rupprecht, whom
the Jacobites style Rupert I. If descent
was the only qualification needed Rupert's
claim would be undoubted, but unfor-
tunately for the hopes of the Jacobites
any rights he might have to the throne
were wiped out more than a century and
a half before he was born, by the 1701
Act of Settlement. Under an Act of 1707
any person who advocates the claim of
Rupert or any other claimant may be
charged with high treason.
t * * *
“Dee”: There might be a deeper logic
than “Pawang” suspects (B. 7/9/’49) in
the magistrate who sentenced seven
youths to twelve months’ church attend-
ance —at any rate, “Pawang” doesn’t
make out a convincing case for non-
compulsory churchgoing in his ad-
mission that his spiritual life centred
around a good-looking lass and his
theology extends to raising his hat to a
parson in the street. The magistrate
presumably had the alternatives of fining
the youngsters, sending them to jail or
putting them into a reformatory. In the
first alternative the parents would be the
punished ones ; there’s no evidence that
the second or third alternatives would
have deterred the kids from a repeated
delinquency. It isn’t likely the magis-
trate thought he could create seven young
Christian martyrs—but there’s a rough
chance that what they hear in church
will stick to one or two of them, on the
ethical if not the strictly theological side,
Whatever may be the thoughts in the
juvenile minds about the parson being a
jailer there’s certainly no gainsaying
that in a reformatory or on a prison-
"To conserve electricity, would you please turn off all lights and listen
in the dark?”
farm there would be no chance of the
boys viewing the jailer as a parson.
* * * *
“Spike”: About three times a year I
get off a morning train and realise that
my monthly ticket is at home. Although
the ticket-inspector on duty may be the
same who has glanced closely at that
ticket on every morning of its life, he
affects to be unacquainted with its owner,
and will regard him as a dishonest
stranger. Every time this has happened
to me I have paid up the fare demanded
and, loudly protesting my innocence, sub-
mitted to a small fine ; although I’ve kept
the receipt given and showed it next morn-
ing with my ticket and applied then for a
refund, the answer inevitably has been a
lemon This neat little sideline of
N.S.W.G.R. is gilt-edged because of the
abundance of goats like myself, but the
commissioner should realise that he is
breeding germs of anarchy. “Gosh, I’ve
left it in the other suit,” is an explanation
usually accepted by authority because in
this failing there is generally a brother-
hood of man. Authority can usually re-
member the time it was caught itself, but
N.S.W.G.R.’s ticket-inspectors are an
exception. Perhaps they have only one
suit.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: What would Henry
Lawson have said on seeing the drunk
arrested at the celebrations in his honor
(B. 14/9/’49)? Probably what he said
years ago:
.... Armed with the savage Habituals Act
they are waiting for you and me —
And drunkards in judgment on drunkards
sit (Keep step, One-Hundred-and-
Three).
*'* * *
“Clooter”: I suppose it was inevitable
and nobody ought to be astonished, but
Hitler’s ghost has turned up. A Stuttgart
paper says he or it appeared, or was heard
or otherwise manifested himself, at a
seance, denied rumors that a corporeal
Hitler was hiding in South America, and
asserted that the real Hitler “voluntarily
passed over” on April 30, 1945. The
spirit exhorted the aqdience to “recon-
struct in peace and harmony that which
was destroyed by war through my guilt,”
and to “overcome our nationalist
arrogance and dangerous militarism.”
Now whether these words indicated that
the ghost was trying to propitiate the
Western Powers or the Russian I’m not
sure, since the language is calculated to
please both, but I’d be more convinced
of the genuineness of the apparition if it
had been reported as screaming “We was
robbed!” And the haste to establish an
alibi with regard to South America ought
to make the Spiggotty republics mighty
suspicious of Teutonic-looking strangers.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The Victorian polio
epidemic, which has claimed over 500
victims, appears to be declining, and there
are hopes that it will have run its course
by Christmas. According to Dr. Burnet,
of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute,
who is a world authority on the disease,
science knows nothing about how it
spreads. One official authority says, with-
out justification, that milk should not be
drunk, and another —the Minister for
Agriculture —that people should drink as
much milk as possible to build up their
resistance. Whether milk would build up
resistance is again in question. Another
authority says that the bulk of the popu-
lation has the resistance because
they have already had the infection in a
mild form without knowing it. Most
people have worried about it, myself in-
eluded. Having read the official descrip-
tion of the symptoms in the evening
paper, I woke up next morning with the
lot. It turned out I had gastro-enteritis.
Nobody knows anything about polio, but
nearly everybody has a theory. I haven t
a theory, but I am interested in a report
that during the last big epidemic no cases
occurred amongst the Italian and Greek
community. The chief difference between
those races and Australians is that they
are exclusively wine - drinkers, their
children drinking that beverage as ours
do tea.
* * * *
“Lawnstob”: A variant of the story of
the plainclothes policeman accosted by
the con. man has occurred in Hobart. A
Mr. C. E. Cox was the recipient of a book
of art-union tickets in aid of a Victorian
organisation with a request to sell the
tickets and send the proceeds to the fund.
Art-unions and raffles are illegal in the
Apple Island unless approved by the
Attorney-General. Mr. Cox is the
Attorney-General.
* * * *
“X.L.H.Q.”: “X.M.N.” (B. 14/9/’49)
would have been able to find that King-
ston submarine on his charts, but he
would not have recognised it as such. It
is actually a reef which, when about half
awasjh, bears an extraordinary resem-
blance, when seen from the air, to a
large submarine moving on the surface.
It only appears like this at a certain state
of the tide, and even pilots who had been
over the area many times were taken in.
Military Intelligence got to know it quite
well. There was usually a comment in
the report on its size. Rightly so, as
the reef is about twice as long as the
largest submarine in the world.
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: A Sydney tram-driver has
earned the nickname of “Pick-up
Charlie.” He keeps a keen look-out
ahead and claims to average five bob a
week in money found on the road, as
well as enough spanners, screwdrivers,
chisels, etc., to start a good workshop.
He reminded me of a Monaro swagman
we called “The Bower-bird.” His eyes
searched the road as he tramped along,
and he examined closely every camping-
place he came upon ; he rarely left with-
out finding something. When I first
bought a car over 20 years ago I rarely
went for a Sunday drive without finding
something on the road. Sometimes it
was a spanner, hammer, wallet, hat, scarf
or pocket-knife and sometimes money.
Nowadays I seldom see anything worth
stopping for. Motorists have apparently
become more careful.
* * * *
“Ague”: “Norther” (B. 7/9/’49) asks
“Why is it necessary for a railway station-
master to be supplied with forecasts or
the weather?” The most obvious reason
is that they enable him to decide on the
sheeting of trucks ; he could forward un-
sheeted truckloads of wheat, wool, chan
and other goods that would ordinanb
require the use of tarpaulins, if he knew
the weather would be fine. In ‘ making-up
trains, a wet-weather forecast would
allow him to conform to a “wet-rail
load. Then there is the more practical
•reason: he could adjust his own out-
door activities to fit in with the weather.
THE MISSING LINCOLN.
“Mr. Langtry (Lab.) reports that Mr. Chifley is
recognised the world over as one of the best men
the world has over produced, and Mr. Pollard (Lab.)
finds that the ‘Labor’ Government has assured
workers and children as much beer and ice-cream
as they like.”
“I bear,” said Bert, “congratulations;
We all agree with Langtry, Ben,
Who, for all times and populations,
Counts you among the best of men;
The world should find you best of all
From Churchill back to Homer’s Priam —•
Your fault is, you’re so casual,
And not so widely-known as I am.”
“Oh, I dunno,” said Ben. “That Pollard —
He told them what I like to hear;
How everyone, since I’ve been follared,
Has cash for ice-cream and for beer;
I’ll share a beer with any man
Considering what the beer excise is,
And eat kids’ ice-cream by the can
For ray percentage of their trizzies”
“Yes, yes,” said Bert, “but at this stage
You can’t afford to mention money;
Remember, it’s the Golden Age,
The land is flowing milk and honey—
With children guzzled full of ices,
And drunken men in all directions,
And Arthur Calwell blowing kisses,
We’re bound to win the next elections!”
“That brings us back to Langtry’s claim,”
Said Ben. “A statesman can’t be great,
Or touch a bloke like Lincoln’s fame,
While head of such a prosperous State;
Post-war prosperity came about
Without my aid or intercession;
No —what I need to test me out
Is more of a severe depression.”
“I’ll have one drafted, good and tough,”
Said Bert, “and passed immediately.”
“Well, no,” said Ben. “We’ve done enough;
We only need to wait and see;
In fact, I’ve sort of dropped a hint
There may be one around the corner,
And even if there’s nothing in it,
They’ll say, ‘Well, he was right to warn yer.’ ”
“A sword,” said Bert, “so double-edged
Might cut the vote to Bob, our neighbor.”
Ben said, “The Labor party’s pledged
To find an antidote for labor—
It’s just like serum, it’s a cert
They’ll make us our own antidoters”
“I’m no G.P.,” said Doctor Bert,
“But nor are they; they’re only voters.”
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


THE “JOHNSTON”
MOBILE SWEEPER AND COLLECTOR
x.V- ■ .
Manufactured by
JOHNSTON BROTHERS (Contractors) LTD.,
ENGLAND
ẁ
ẃ
FOR CLEANER AND BETTER CROPS
sterilise your seed beds and greenhouses. Disinfect your Poultry and Pig houses. Burn
your Weeds and Rubbish. Clean up your Paths, Drives. Eradicate Corse and Undergrowth.
Send for Catalogue and Quotations to Australian Agents •
R. E. JACKMAN & CO. LIMITED 57 FLINDERS STREET, ADELAIDE, SOUTH AUSTRALIA.
Queensland Agents for HAUCK FLAME GUNS; WHATMORE MATTHEWS PTY, LTD.
“B. A. Ker”; Three generations ago
my wife’s grandparents left their native
“ttielands” behind for ever, but they
passed on to their granddaughter an in-
heritance that still wrinkles my forehead.
I remember my bewilderment when I was
casually told about a “bizem” who was
“boking” in the train. My spouse seemed
amazed that I didn’t know a “bizem”
was the equivalent of a hussy, and to
“boke” was to vomit. To make life even
more complicated the wife is, unwittingly,
a disciple of the renowned Dr. Spooner.
The first tirne I was asked if I had a
“botter-bux” in the shed I thought another
Scottish word had crept out of the past.
And the request to “fight the liar” I
naturally took as a call to arms against
some untruthful person—until a box of
matches was tossed to me. But when I
was handed my socks with the informa-
tion that they were already “fliped” I
found myself turning the word inside out
and round about to find out what “fliped”
meant. It wasn’t a Spoonerism at all:
fliped is a Scottish word meaning the toe
is turned in ready for pulling on. I no
longer look startled when informed of
a “hettling” to do something—it is
merely the Scottish way of saying what a
Yank means when he says he has a
“yen” to do something. Still, life will
always have its minor mysteries. Last
week I was informed that, in visiting the
Chelsea Flower Show in the Sydney
Domain, my wife passed “maint saries
thacredal.” I’m rather proud of my
effort in working that one out in two and
a quarter minutes flat.
* * * *
“Flathead”: On a miserable morning
of Sydney’s recent deluge I halted and
stood cowering under my brolly as a
neighbor inquired from his verandah;
“Going up to the shops? If you’ve got
a spare pound would you pick up my
watch from the jeweller’s. He said he’d
have it ready. I’m a bit short today,”
I signalled “Yes,” and, with my feet
squelching in their shoes, and a cold
trickle feeling its way down the side of
my ear, I plodded on. Shopping finished,
I picked up his watch and nursed it all
the way back to keep it dry. I later felt
like jumping on it—as I rang his door-
bell and he appeared, still in his dressing-
gown and slippers, warm and comfort-
able, he said, “Thanks a lot. I’ll bring
that quid down on Monday if it’s not
raining.”
*„ * * *
Zake”; A business acquaintance
dined and wined two overseas visitors
and their wives at a very posh hostelry.
At the finish of the excellent meal one of
the ladies wondered if she could have a
menu as a souvenir. Expansively the
host asked the waiter for two. Yes, it
could be arranged. Madame would not
need the covers, no? The slips of paste-
board were handed over with the correct
air of reverence. The host had gone
there quite aware that if the waiter suc-
ceeded in repressing a sneeze it would
probably add a few bob to the bill, but
he wasn’t exactly prepared for the last
item on it. It read: Two menus, 10s.
* * * *
“Brolga”; Perhaps the decision to
change Army boots to black has been
for tactical reasons. Just before we made
Just a minute while I make a bit of butter ."
the drive across the Syrian border in
June, 1941, our C.O. left the battalion
at Mersah Matruh and, with other C.Os.,
was rushed by car to northern Palestine
to make a recce of the border country.
Telling us about the trip later he said that
in order to disguise their identity the
party was ordered to wear British battle-
dress showing the rank of second-lieuts.
They had hardly got out of the car be-
fore a Wog urchin greeted them: “Saida
Aussie. You come from Egypt?” When
the party stoutly denied any connection
with Australia or Egypt the grinning
youth pointed to their tan number-nines
and to the car which still bore a generous
coating of the dust of Egypt. But In-
telligence was wide of the mark all
through the Syrian business. When we
crossed the frontier later on we were
ordered to wear our slouch hats to pro-
claim our identity instead of the helmets,
steel. The idea was that when they recog-
nised us the local populace would pre-
vail upon the Vichy garrison to welcome
us with open arms and bouquets of
flowers. They didn’t.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: Peeking at the fashion
pages of women’s papers to learn the
latest in descriptive phraseology, I found
that milady’s summer clothes this year
will be “sunshine fashions,” and low-cut
bodices have become “plunging neck-
lines.” I notice, too, that women’s
clobber at present tends to the
“dramatic,” but although I’ve met hats
accounted “perky” and even “foolish,” I
have yet to encounter an admission that
one might be “ridiculous.” Regarding
feminine footwear I find the prosaic
rather than the extravagant term more
favored, though last winter I discovered a
slipper which most of us would call “cosy”
described as “heart-warming.” But swim-
suits take this week’s prize for embroi-
dery in words —I understand they’re to
take a “sophisticated attitude rather than
a sporty one” this summer.
♦ * * *
“F.S.”: “Old Sub.” is puzzled at the
refusal of war-time censors to allow
Henry Boote to print the Sermon on the
Mount (B. 28/9/’49). Has he ever read
it? Inasmuch as every statement in it
is a complete reversal of what a war-time
censor stands for, why would it not have
been censored? It might be said that
Christ’s words—“Ye have heard that it
hath been said, An eye for an eye, and
a tooth for a tooth ; But I say unto you.
That ye resist not evil; but whosoever
shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn
to him the other also Ye have heard
that it hath been said, Thou shalt love
thy neighbor, and hate thy enemy; But
I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless
them that curse you, do good to them
that hate you, and pray for them which
despitefully use you, and persecute you”—
were intoned daily by the parsons and
they weren’t banned by any censor. But
there they were spoken in a different con-
text — he., in the churches. Boote,
if I remember, was a pacifist of some sort,
and didn’t believe in fighting, so the
Sermon on the Mount in any of his pub-
lications would be in an entirely different
context, and even a war-time censor
might have been intelligent enough to spot
that.
* * * *
“Nunk”: Sydney suburbs are dan-
gerous places for children these days.
Early this year our boy was knocked
down by a bicycle and had his leg frac-
tured ; last week we heard that the brother
of the boy who had knocked him down
was smashed-up in a motor-cycle acci-
dent in which he figured as a pillion-
rider. Then one of my boy’s best school-
friends failed to attend school because of
an accident, and my wife was on her way
to a phone-box to find out what had hap-
pened to him when a neighbor hesitantly
mentioned that our younger boy, aged
five, had been spending the afternoon
putting sticks under tramcars. Somewhat
shaken, and resolved that one can’t be
too careful with small boys, my wife went
on to the phone-box and learned that the
school-friend who hadn’t turned up had
slipped on the steps going to church and
fractured his skull. So far we have been
unable to elicit a moral from this last
development.
* * * *
“En B.”; Adelaide Show, among the
usual sideshows, had this year a pigmy
from a notable tribe. The advertiser
should know. “He is a worshipper of
Kam (the Sun),” runs the guff, “and
when at its full the pigmies make offer-
ings of parts of their kill.” At its full?
Perhaps the sun of Zanzibar, whence the
little bloke is said to hail, is just dif-
ferent.
* * * *
“Smithy”: Bottled lemon-essence (B.
31/8/ ’49) ? I once tried out the potion.
Mixed in the proportion of one table-
spoop to one pannikin of water and
lemon cordial it caused a comfortable
glow to spread outward from the
stomach, and removed no more than the
enamel from the teeth on the way down.
Some of my mates, with excessive zeal,
indulged in a lemon-essence-lemon-juice-
water party, but the hangovers were
pitiful to behold, and no further warning
regarding the potency of the brew was
necessary. We never tried it straight, but
a housewife I know who employed an
abo. for a day’s scrubbing wondered
when an inebriated darkie weaved camp-
ward after knock-off time. Mystery was
solved next baking-day with the discovery
of four empty lemon-essence bottles on
the pantry shelf.
♦ * * ♦
“Lao-dah”; The new price of gold,
which now sounds as if it was being
quoted for tons, not ounces, should not
only double the fortunes of Indian
nabobs, rajahs and maharajahs, who
traditionally have stored incredible
quantities of the precious metals in the
dungeons beneath their palaces, but also
the wealth of the average Javanese family.
It is the Javo’s habit to load his worldly
wealth in concrete form on the bodies of
his wife and offspring. The mouth of
the poor devil of a European clerk would
water at the glittering spectacle of his
native servant on gala occasions stalking
in front of his domestic entourage, whose
bajus were buttoned with English
sovereigns or half-sovereigns, and whose
wrists, ankles and ears rattled with golden
rings and bangles, while even the
numerous babies had their quota of
brooches. The accumulated bullion at
present prices would amount to a respec-
table fortune. It wasn’t a prophetic in-
sight into the vagaries of international
science, but distrust of that newfangled
institution the foreign bank, that made
the natives do it, but it appears as if time
has justified them.
* * * ♦
“Jemac”; Must record my approval of
“X.M.N.’s” approval of N. Australian
and New Guinea charts (B. 7/9/’49), but
am a bit fog-bound on some of his navi-
gating. In some years blue-watering I
thought I’d pinned down most naviga-
tional methods, but his conning a ship
on an aerial photograph has me grounded.
Always believed little things like sound-
ings, bearings, lat. and long, and rela-
tive positions of reefs and capes were
necessary to fix the old girl’s position on
any map. Admittedly a photograph
would show shoals and reefs, but I can’t
see the benefit unless he knew precisely
where his ship was in relation to them.
And reef-sighting is somewhat easier from
an aircraft than from the low level of
a bridge. Piloting in reef-bound country
requires exact mathematical calculation
of dangers, own speed, course and so on.
Navigating by eye—might as well pull
the plug out and save time.
SECOND-BEST.
“Refuting a complaint that wharflaborers were
using bad language, Queensland Transport Minister
Duggan told Parliament that according to a standard
reference-book the percentages of swearing were:
wharflaborers 1.47, Parliamentarians 29.8, bullock-
drivers 83.5.”
When a biting interjection which contains a
black reflection
At a yapping legislator’s swiftly flung;
Or he’s being badly harassed and undoubtedly
embarrassed
By reminders of his contradictory tongue;
If, while arguing obtusely, very drearily and
loosely,
He is pointedly adjured to rest his shanks —
We can then expect the entry of a speech, not
Parliament’ry,
But one salted with a lot of lurid “blanks.”
Of politeness the quintessence, scorning language-
effervescence,
Is the wharfie, who, at worst, would but
bestow
Scarce an imprecation other than a softly-
muttered “Bother!”
As a hundredweight of wood fell on his toe.
Such unmasculine invective, pallid, wan and
ineffective,
May be right enough for pansies wielding
hooks,
But with savage politicians there are no such
inhibitions,
And what they say isn’t found in children’s
books.
Using language adjectival is a matter of sur-
vival
Among those who o’er our laws deliberate,
For regarded as a dud is he who doesn’t toss
his “bloodys”
Round—or stronger stuff —while speaking in
debate.
There is nothing they are proud of more than
knowing there’s a cloud of
Blue above the seat each member occupies,
And that, beefing out and blaring, in the realm
of vivid swearing
Only bullockies can beat ’em to the prize.
No profession seems to need it more than
politics. Indeed, it
May be termed an occupational disease.
For, bereft of fulminations and their rich
exacerbations
They’d be mis’rable as dogs without their
fleas.
You may, perhaps, have pondered as through
Parliament you’ve wandered
And you’ve seen the fire-extinguishers about,
That their special allocation was to scotch a
conflagration.
You were right—they’re there to put the
language out.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Solitude”: My nag had been spelling
for some time and was rather fresh. Not
only when we started out in the morn-
ings, but after every stop through the
day he’d pitch for a bit. He had just
settled down to regular work-trim when
Sandy came over with a harness moke he
wanted to use for hack work. I used my
own saddle and tried him out. A few
days after that we were in town with
some bullocks when Seventyfiver came
back from a yarn with old Huxley. “I’m
getting a nag from Ted Huxley,” he in-
formed. “Ain’t been rid f’r a long time,
an’ Ted says he’ll be rough as blazes till
he’s quietened. Might get y’ t’ give him
the first few minutes, Sol.” A couple of
strangers further down the bar looked
up, interested, as I nodded. “Bit of a
rider, is he?” the nearer one asked the
old bloke. “Not many real riders left
nowadays.” The two sidled in closer,
with gaping jaws. “Get him to ride ’em
first, do you?” chipped in the second.
“Well, there’s more in it than y’d think,”
informed Seventyfiver, accepting the
drink they shoved across. “There’s
knowin’ how t’ do it, an’ which way t’
put y’self. Man c’d easy get himself
hurt if he didn’t know.” “I’ll say he
could,” agreed the bloke, his eyes stuck in
my direction. “Done a good bit of it,
has he?” “Done nothin’ else but,
lately,” replied Senventyfiver. “Gripes,
it won’t ’urt him. He’s used to it.”
“Used to riding the bad ’uns?” “Eh?”
The old bloke pulled his dial out of the
glass. “No,” he explained. “Aw, cripes,
no. Used t’ gettin’ chucked orf.”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Passed through the old
valley the other day. It looked much
the same: lush grass along the roads,
the little river rather more overhung by
wattles, the blackberries receding—
thanks to the rotary hoe —but the hills
the same ageless blue. Had to leave
early, so was up at dawn, and it was then
I noticed the greatest change since when
we nippers went for the cows in the
frosts of bygone years. Then it was
“Give it a thorough testing , sir!"
maggies who greeted the sun, and all
other fowl seemed to wait for their open-
ing anthem; grey butchers joined them,
blue wrens *piped up from the bracken,
and the little bush-lark climbed high as
though to compensate for his late entry
to the chorus by gaining first sight of the
cause of it. But now the early dawn be-
longs to the English blackbird. He has
spread from southern gardens and hills,
and, to the disgust of gardeners, is part
of the place; but he does his best,
vocally, to offset his sins. Soft and
strong, low and loud they sang, being
far or near ; those in the hedge close by
poured out a rolling melody that was
echoed by others up and down the river
so that, though the volume varied, there
was no break in the continuous chorus
that was all blackbird. And, listening to
them there, I felt that a country’s litera-
ture could be colored by its bird-songs
(I don’t yet believe the opposite applies),
for two passages sprang to mind —the
“Cool and Clear” verses in The Water
Babies, and The Piper at the Gates of
Dawn from The Wind In The Willows.
Can’t imagine an Australian writing
either of those extracts —“our loves
are otherwise” —yet to me the blackbirds
recalled them. Then a hush came over
the singers, the east lit up, the first
maggie jerked me down to earth —and
the rest was all Australian.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Include the bunyip amongst
the protected fauna of this country. A
ukase of the Victorian Department of
Fisheries and Game proclaims a close-
season for the Murray waters. The in-
tention is to mollycoddle the Murray
cod, but the ban makes it illegal to lift
out any species of water-dweller, from
crayfish to mussels. A bunyip, appar-
ently jet-propelled, has been seen almost
simultaneously in rivers as wide apart as
the Goulburn, the Ovens, the King and
the Kiewa in the last few months. Let
anyone snare, shoot, net, dynamite or
hook it who dare!
* * * *
“Chuck”: It was years ago that Mum
first decided to save up and buy a carpet
for the best room. Every spare bob
went into the money-box, until after a
long time her objective of £25 was
reached. Followed a visit to the nearest
town. “Did you get your carpet, Mum?”
she was asked on her return. “No,” she
explained. “They’ve gone up in price
since I first inquired. I’ll have to save
another ten pounds now.” Nearly twelve
months later Mum’s egg-money had
made up the extra. Again she sought
the shop, only to learn that carpets had
again risen in price. More stringent
saving, more planning, more going with-
out, then another trip into town, but
again Mum had failed to catch up with
rising costs. A few months ago she once
more reached the desired quota, and
made the trip in with the old bloke. “It’s
all right, Dad,” she smiled, on pricing the
carpets, “I can still get one for sixty-five
pounds, and I’ve got that much.” “A
terrible price, Mum,” he groaned. “It’s
time they came down. P’raps ,if y’ wait
a bit” “No, no, Dad, 1 can’t afford
to,” she wailed. “Step aside, quick—
I’ve got to rush in at once and get it be-
fore they go up again.”
* * * *
“Tarbush”: Until troop-movements
changed the old order, the light narrow-
gauge line between Quorn and Alice
Springs was noted for being a railway
where the most unexpected sight was a
train. After the war, traffic from the
Leigh Creek mine kept the old line busy
on its southern section. During the big
coal strike coal trains—“double-headers”
drawing 18 trucks, each carrying 20-odd
tons, and a big combination brake-van
with living quarters for the crew—prac-
tically queued up for their turns to pass
at the lonely sidings, so that, day and
night, the light line roared and rattled to
their passing. And yet, on one section,
only a few feet from the vibrating rails,
a pair of ground-larks chose to build
their nest in a clump of bindi-eye. The
little brown birds, which' in a drought
are the only apparent inhabitants of the
gibber tablelands and the naked clayflats,
nested unafraid on the quaking earth in
a periodic hell of noise. Even their un-
hatched young could take it, for, so far,
all but one of the rotund slaty eggs has
disgorged the hideous hairy caterpillar
that Mum groundlark thinks the most
beautiful baby in the world. It takes
“Wait till she gets to the part where I've soaped the rope !”
more than a bit of man-made noise to
discomfit those little brown bush-
whackers.
* * * *
“Rooster”; There’s an explanation for
those eerie marine luminescences (B.
14/7/’49). Many times, in the Mediter-
ranean and the Indian Ocean, I observed
that the night waters were lit to a
considerable depth by globes of white
fire which wax and wane as a shoal of
jellyfish float by. This queer produc-
tion of light is a process peculiar to
luminous animals, and is known to
scientists as “bio-luminescence.” It’s the
result of a form of oxidation or com-
bustion. All the energy is released as
light and none wasted to produce heat.
Hence the term “cold light.” The light-
producing material found in animals is
named luciferin, and, when it combines
with oxygen, light results. The enzyme
which effects the oxidation, luciferase,
varies from one type of creature to an-
other, as does the exact quantity of light
to which each gives rise. Besides the
surface light displayed by certain marine
protozoa, there are deep-water flsh with
definite “light organs” self-luminous
torches in which the production of light
is concentrated and amplified. Squids,
cuttlefish, prawns, krills, and most of the
rortiH ctiimmorc r«n c cpcc thpep nrffflnc
Sain deS)Tea cuttle? hav* over twenty
£mns One has a mir of lamps
lamps One nas a pair or sxy mue lamps
near its eyes, white lamps down eac
side, and a pam of red lamps at the re .
A shoal of these fish seen by night gi
the same hght effect as that given ou by
yellow phosphorus, commercial barium
or calcium sulphide. Seen for the fir
time it is unreal, even ghostly Small
wonder that sailors view it with awe, if
not
“P. O’Rell”: With the dawn of Eddie’s
better-than-his-raaster era in the islands
the primitive savage has shown a special
aptitude for that profession of which his
white neighbors are the acknowledged
leaders. I quote the case of the kanaka
who came on his first visit to Moresby
from his village on the hills. He squatted
thoughtfully in front of the radio-station
and surveyed the big city for what it was
worth. Behind, the twin masts and
aerial jutted up towards the heavens and
in due course attracted his attention,
In reply to his inquiry, one of the local
lads explained that the “taubadas” used
that wire to pluck sounds from the air
and speak to their friends many many
days’ walk away. “Ah!” said the visitor,
stroked his chin thoughtfully and faced
back to the jungle, where he disappeared
into obscurity for several moons. One
day a startled patrol-officer entered a
village and noticed a most peculiar build-
ing. For a moment he thought he was
about to make anthropological history as
he surveyed the “sac sac” hut with the
huge bamboo pole stretching to the skies,
and on top a long limp stretch of lawyer-
vine, hooked on at the other end to a
coconut-palm. Yes, the old gentleman in
person was seated in the “sac sac” hut
underneath, receiving messages from the
dear departed for local relatives at a fee
of a chook or a bushel of taro a time,
* * * *
“Ware”: All arthropods are the des-
cendants of some segmented ancestor
who presumably sported a pair of
appendages to every segment. In
present-day forms, such as insects and
crustaceans, there is considerable fusion
of segments, and. a tendency to reduce
the number of appendages. But all arth-
lopods have a head made up of six fused
segments whose appendages have been
converted into the usual formidable array
of jaws and antennae. Thus any insect
has adapted appendages on each of five
of the six fused head-segments, a pair of
legs on each of the three thoracic seg-
ments, and, with the possible exception
of egg-laying apparatus, no appendages
on the abdominal segments. A crus-
tacean like the lobster, however, still has
small appendages on the abdominal seg-
ments. More primitive still, the centi-
pedes have retained a series of similar
body-segments. The appendages of the
first body-segment have been modified to
form an extra pair of “jaws”—the poison
fangs. All the other segments except the
fast two bear very similar walking legs,
* * * * nl ,. n .
“North”: Tell “0.R.K.” (B. 7/9/49)
that a wandering windpipe is by no
means a monopoly of the snipe. Many
long-necked birds have such an arrange-
ment, with the trachea coiled under the
skin. Swans, however, have their spare
airpipes coiled away in the hollow
breastbone. According to one authority,
extra-long tracheae make it possible for
their possessors to stretch out the neck
without pulling the lungs out by the
roots.
* *• . w
.“B?’ It was early m fte ftat
’ttoke out at Bulhvant P ■
Howard Bulhvant s neighbor, a hpht
sleeper heard the first crackles coming
fro™, Million f J? 5 re L.”S
1”* « ok f Pe “ c r e
oppos.te and together“
rescue the numerous Bulhvant brood.
Bulhvant himself was the last to wake,
and he stumbled out just as Howard was
anisi a -Bucket-brigade to the dam.
But before anyone cou ld even grab a
bucket there came tbe rob G f thunder,
and ithi a m i nu t e the heaviest rain-
storm district had had for years
tumbled do complet ely dousing the
fi wWch had . started t 0 t a hold
Qn main h J use> Pearce> a devout
man> reckoned the doW npour nothing less
than providential. Bulhvant scratched
his head “Aw pLhteen
it to
y
come or , latel! ,
“Eremophila”: Whilst generally the
snake ’ s inability to excavate an air-raid
sbe lter for himself (B. 14/9/’49) is con-
ceded it isn’t uncommon to see a brown
snake root i ng dirt out of a hole in a
creek -bank. A little investigation, sub-
sequent to Mr. Blake’s demise, will
usua n y reV eal that the deceased had been
engaged in clearing out a mouse villa.
Fve never been i ucky eno ugh to find out
j ust bow j oe shifts the dirt—probably
by pusb ing it back by undulations of his
shiny se if However, his admirable solu-
tion of tbe housing shortage seems to be:
eat the tenants and move in.
* * * *
“Telarb”: Some years ago there lived
on a Torres Straits island a native who
was by way of being a Big Noise. With
him lived another whose noisiness was
only a few negligible degrees of sound
removed. The Government, to express
tangibly its appreciation of the duo s co-
operation, presented them with a horse, to
be owned jointly. Each secretly desired
to possess not half a horse but a whole
one, for possession of same would render
his mana strong and his prestige nig •
However, neither would sell to the ot er,
however tempting the oners and coun er-
offers. The dilemma was resolved only
when the Slightly-Bigger-Noise caught his
rival out in the execution of a very minor
crime, whacked him into court and line
him half a horse the fine to be tor
to the Judge!
THE GUM.
The old gum stands beside the town,
In suit of dusty green and brown,
Warts on his knees, corns on his feet,
A council notice on his seat.
When he was young the abos threw
Spears past him at the kangaroo;
Burns on his sides from fire’s attack,
And possums’ scratches on his back.
He lost a limb long years ago
(Those were the days when winds could blow!)
Split in a storm —almost in two;
And once the lightning cut him through.
Old veteran, pride of the town —
Now who would dare to cut him down?
Where Jackie laughs, and possum fares,
And maggies sing their evening prayers.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


Established 186 S
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
J ACKS OX
osuujvax . ;
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
Born 1820—
still going strong.
V
L
GOOD OLD
JOHNNIE
WAfcKER
real good Scotch
Every drop Distilled and
Blended in Scotland
JOHN WALKER & SONS LTD., SCOTCH
WHISKY DISTILLERS, OF KILMARNOCK.
SCOTLAND: LONDON AND SYDNEY.
JW. 129.12
ŵ
YOUNG WILD HORSE.
It is long since I
Looked on so beautiful a one;
He is from an unbounded place
Of plains and silence and the sun.
His shining stare
Offers the wonder of a mind
Made happy by a primal world—
The waves of light and the wind.
His unwincing flesh
Betrays the utter innocent;
So moulded came he into life
As if some perfect power had lent
Momentarily, these —
Delicate airs, sweet bones allied —
That human clods might strangely learn
The purer lineament of pride.
I never saw so calm
And yet so frankly wild a one . . .
His flanks are carved by streaming airs,
The tresses of his mane are spun
Silver as cloud
That flows above his lonely lands.
It is not rest but tensing joy
That curbs him as he stands . . .
With all his force
Taut on the hairline verge of flight
Yet is he peaceful as the gods,
Certain of love for his birthright—
Have not winds and suns
Loved him, their arrowy brother?
He was part of the wilderness
When first he dreamed by his mother.
It is rare to see .
Fearlessness in the young and mute;
Trust, the eternal miracle
In the thing named brute.
It is rare to come
Close as this to the earth and air
Fused and warmed in a living mould,
There must be reverence to spare . . .
Or, if not that,
At least a rough pretence to see
Something of what is potent here . . .
Ah, leave the princeling free!
n.z. Paula Hanger.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Far out beyond the tide-
covered, snagging rocks the fish were bit-
ing—for those who could cast so far.
Most of the fishermen could. Yet no two
men had the same technique. One chap
whirled the sinker in fast, flat circles
above his head, then, letting go at the
exact instant, had the satisfaction of see-
ing his line streak out, to plop way out
in the blue water. The fellow near him
was getting better results than seemed
possible from a queer, under-arm style
like a man vigorously winding up a
gramophone. A rod-fisherman was the
next in line; the way that man could
make his reel screech was unbelievable.
But the fellow on the point could beat
’em all. He started his swing similarly
to number one, but, when the sinker was
whistling around his head, suddenly
changed hands, allowed the weight to
circle twice more, then cast. And what a
cast! A new chap arrived ; after his first
throw everybody was waiting to see his
next. A piece of green stick about 2ft.
long was his projector, worked on the
same principle as the “mud-slingers” of
our barefoot days. How he managed to
make the line leave the stick at the right
moment was a mystery, but the trajectory
and placement were almost perfect. The
last fellow along the peninsula had a rod
—quite a nice job, with a patent reel to
facilitate casting. But, lord, the agony he
endured! Sometimes he cast into the
wash four yards ahead, and sometimes
into the rocks behind. Once he nearly
cast himself into the drink —he’d hooked
himself in the pants. He lost dozens of
hooks, pounds of lead, yards of line and
his temper. Everybody stopped fishing
when, line untangled once more, he tried
yet again to reach the deep water. He
never succeeded. Probably the other
fishermen still chuckle about him, but I’d'
never felt so sorry for anyone. I sold
the rod next day.
**' * *
“Billy T.”: The customary cordial air
around our tavern is temporarily clouded.
Strangely enough, the source of our usual
sunshine is also the cause of its passing
eclipse; it is the involuntary flutter of
our host’s left eyelid. He doesn’t mean
to wink —he can’t help it; but he is such
a cheery little cove, and his conversation
is usually so fruity, that the optical punc-
tuations seem to fit into place in a way
that ensures good humor. That is, with
the regulars; but the other day there
came a stranger in the land —a sour sort
“My turn, Punch!”
of man with seriousness of pur-
pose, an inflated opinion of his own virtue
and no humor at all; and he sought
accommodation. He asked for a double-
bed. “Yes,” said Bung, “I can fix that,”
and he smiled brightly and tossed in a
couple of wicked winks for good
measure, whereupon the righteous one
turned the color of a fresh-cooked crab
and, leaping up, smote the offending eye.
Bung hasn’t spent much time in the bar
since—“has a bit of cleaning up to do
out the back”—but we’ll all be glad
when the present glow of his port light
fades sufficiently for him to come back
where his cobbers accept its fitful flicker-
ing as normal.
* * * *
“Blime”: The new stock-traveller
arrived in Lasthope the day of the foot-
ball grand final and found the town
seething with excitement. Bung himself
shouted for everybody, the store bloke
handed out goods and forgot to
collect, and everybody talked football;
Then came a banging of doors and'a
mad rush to the sports-ground, where the
team, in sawn-off dungarees and singlets,
faced the red-shirted blokes from
Swindler’s Gully. Somebody belted a
kerosene-tin, and the game was on. It
raged up and down the ground, while
the crowd roared, dogs barked, and
a loose nag got itself involved with
players and patrons with wild im-
partiality. The traveller found himself
wedged between a white-gum and an old
bloke who chewed delightedly on the
stem of an empty pipe. “That’s football
for y’,” wheezed the old bloke. “Bet we
c’d show them city teams a thing or two,
eh?” From a slight lull the traveller
gathered it was the end of a quarter, but
before he could move came another tin-
banging, and the hubbub was renewed.
His gaze wandered round the sweating,
wild-eyed ring of spectators and returned
to find the teams standing by, while two
men settled a difference in the centre.
The old bloke .still chewed his pipe-stem.
“Where’s your umpire?” the traveller
yelled to him. “Call your umpire. He’s
the man to stop that.” “Give ’im time ;
give ’im time,” grunted the old bloke.
“Ump, never started nothin’ yet he
couldn’t finish. That’s ’im on top now,
see? He’s jus’ teachin’ that big ruck
man he’s got t’ give up the flamin’ ball
when he blows the whistle!”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: When I survey all this
snapping and snarling between the world’s
alleged leaders I can’t help thinking of
Art and Danny. A, and D. got along to-
gether pretty well most of the time, and
when the mob met at old Bill Clarkson’s
pub at Murchison North they usually be-
came as hilarious as anyone else, each in
his own way. Art being quiet under liquor
and Daniel talkative. One afternoon rela-
tions between them became strained;
from what might be termed “sharp diplo-
matic Notes” they quickly passed to “ulti-
matums,” and it took the combined diplo-
matic art of the rest to prevent “warlike
acts.” In the end the pair left together by
car, apparently reconciled, but “further
ruptures” ensued on the journey and, “all
other means being exhausted,” Daniel de-
clared war. Arthur accepted the
“grave choice,” and they stopped the
car and “prepared for action.” As Dan
peeled off his coat Art reached in the
car, saying, “Strike me, I’m dry,” and pro-
duced two bottles. He knocked the tops
off, shoved one at Dan and said, “Here,
get this inter y’ first; y’llneed it.” Need
I say other than that when the anxious
neutrals arrived to gather up the pieces
the belligerents reclined happily against
each other in a state of touching amity?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: When we had a job we
liked to be left alone, so when our new
boss started hanging round I saw Mat’s
lips tighten and his eyes narrow, while he
worked with unusual savagery. We were
building a shed, and that afternoon a
piece of quartering just missed the boss
as it fell from the roof. That was an
obvious accident. Next morning I passed
Mat a hammer ; he fumbled and dropped
it within an inch of the boss’s head. We
apologised for that accident. An hour
later my hammer hit a four-inch nail
obliquely and the nail flew past the boss's
right ear. Since there was no doubt of
that being accidental, nothing was said.
Suddenly Mat’s work slowed down, his
face smoothed out, and I got ready for
ructions. After lunch the boss soon
appeared. Mat climbed down from the
ridge-cap, took the boss by an arm and
led him to a certain spot. “What’s this
for?” he asked. Mat looked at him.
“Want t’ be certain the next flyin’ nail or
failin’ hammer don’t miss y’,” he said
ominously. Thereafter the boss found
other employment, and we finished the
job in peace.
* * ♦ *
“Cass”: The ancient utility screeched
to a stop at the tennis-court and Chum
jumped out, anxious to see what great
topic of conversation could possibly have
stopped play. The discussion was cer-
tainly animated. “Sundey’s no good,” one
said, “The worst blanky day of the week.
Upset our tennis, an’ anyway it’s the only
day in the week we can get off.” “Yeh,*
can’t make it Sundey,” another put in.
“We listen to the play anyway—what
about Thursdey?” “Amatures Thursdey,
no blanky good Thursdey.” “Well, what
about Mundey?” “No blanky fear,
Davey’s on Mundey, Fridey’s the best
night, not a blanky thing worth listening
to, Fridey.” “Can’t go Fridey—listen to
that discussion series. What about
Tuesdey?” “Tuesdey’s mail-day—always
git behind Tuesdeys. Could milk and get
here at 7.30 on mail-day.” “Well, make
it eight o’clock then, gives us all a better
chance that way.” And so it went on.
Chum plumped for Thursday when he
had got the gist of the argument, and they
finally put it to the vote, Tuesday won
the vote, and the visiting parson was duly
notified. Church came to Mountain
Valley on Tuesday night at eight.


ẃ
SECURITY For the Performance of Trusts
The Trustees, Executors & Agency
Co. Ltd. is specially constituted under
Act of Parliament.
It is the oldest Trustee Company in
Australia.
Is constantly available.
Provides prompt and efficient service.
Is impartial and sympathetic.
Has unrivalled experience in estate administration.
ẅ
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
401 COLLINS STREET. MELBOURNE,
and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £966,700.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
* i • .* ■
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS?
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch. M.. F.R.A.C.P. (Chalman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.. K.8.E..
C.M.G,, D. 5.0.; David Wilson, K.C.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
G. J. Coles & Co.
, Dividends •, _
Pref. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.*
£ £ & & &
’4O 278,047 12,000 17Jp.c.= 209,871 50,176 571,785
’4l 230,182 12,000 17* „ „ 226,015 563,952
’42 241,610 12,000 12* „ „ 151,440 68,170 632,122
A.R.P. provision, £17,600 .. .. 614,522
’43 175,569 12,000 10 p.c.= 129,152 34,417 648,939
’44 174,428 12,000 10 „ „ 129,152 33,276 682,215
’45 196,866 12,000 10 „ „ 129,152 65,714 737,929
’46 227,520 12,000 12 „ „ 154,982 60,538 798,467
’47 227,271 12,000 12 „ „ 154,982 60,289 858,756
’4B 288,180 12,000 16 „ „ 193,727 82,453 941,209
Share premiums, £390,000 .. .. 1,331,209
’49 270,138 12,000 15 p.c.= 219,726 38,412 1,369,621
* After deducting goodwill, now £54,000.
Turnover of this big variety-chain-
store organisation—it has 109 shops scat-
tered throughout the Commonwealth-
increased by 20 p.c. last term, and net
earnings decreased by £18,042. Rising
costs and officially-reduced gross margins,
especially in the clothing department,
which figures prominently in turnover,
were the villains of the piece. Wage-lifts
and reduced working hours added over
£300,000 to the co.’s pay-sheet, on which
there are more than 4600 names.
And since there was more capital to
feed, the drop in earning-power was pro-
nounced. The £270,138 of profit, which
includes £35,009 added to freeholds de-
preciation reserve, was enough to pay the
pref. div, and show 17.6 p.c. on average
ord. capital, compared with 21.3, 16.6,
16.7, 14.3 and 12.5 p.c. back to 1944.
The div., which stepped up from 10 p.c.
in 1945 to 12 p.c. in the following year
and to 15 p.c. in 1948, was maintained
at the higher rate because of the large
premium received on the recent issue of
ord. shares, the chairman says.
The Treasury, after inexplicable delay,
authorised the issue of 260,000 new £1
ords. at a premium of 30s. each, and the
lot was offered and taken in Feb. last.
The premium (£390,000), which makes a
15 p.c. div. worth only 6 p.c. on this
issue, was added to reserves. The ord.
shares were then split into ss. units and
all scrip was converted into stock, the
idea being to widen ownership of the
business, and therefore interest in it, and
to save time and expense connected with
the recording and transfer of scrip. Paid
capital now stands at £1,701,515 in
150,000 8 p.c. cum. pref. stock units of
£1 each and 6,206,060 ord. stock units
of ss. each. Nominal capital has been
lifted to £5,000,000 by the creation of
12,000,000 new ss. stock units, but no
hint has been given as to when any of
the unissued units are likely to be offered.
During the year the co. bought all the
scrip in Neway Cash and Carry Stores
(paid capital £29,612) and with it a ware-
house in Melbourne, and four country
stores in Vic. and one at Mt. Gambier
(S. Aus.). The Neway business now ap-
pears in Coles’s books as a subsidiary
at cost, £42,763. Shortly before the close
of accounts, the Stewart Dawson proper-
ties in Pitt- and King-streets, Sydney,
were bought at a cost of £859,335, of
which only £54,335 (deposit money, etc.)
had been paid at June 30, leaving £805,000
to come. Arrangements have been made
to “borrow the greater portion of this
amount on mortgage.” This freehold
takes in Nos. 183-195 Pitt-street and 107-
117 King-street, as well as the Pitt-street
half of the Strand Arcade and the Little
Strand Arcade, and includes shop
premises now occupied by Selfridges and
Woolworths. When permission is granted,
and materials and labor become avail-
able, a big new steel-concrete store is to
be erected on the site.
All these and other things, including
purchase of a freehold at the rear of the
co.’s Bourke-street, Melbourne, shop,
show up in an increase of £969,055 in
freeholds and of £795,195 in mortgages,
etc.l
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Capital— £ £ £ £
Ord. .. 1,291,515 1,291,515 1,291,515 1,551,515
Pref. .. 150,000 150,000 150,000 150,000
Mortgages,
etc. '.. 282,631 282,654 301,001 1,036,296*
Overdraft .. 229,150 174,554
Creditors .. 176,879 217,506 240,670 293,353
Employees’
funds .. 19,282 16,644 15,770 15,448
Tax reserve 208,821 201,524 232,886 412,385
Freeholds .. 1,420,687 1,460,022 1,556,821 2,524,876*
Leaseholds.. 159,552 141,428 129,817 134,839
Fittings,
etc. .. 294,869 285,244 290,076 351,822
Stocks: .. 884,068 1,289,814 1,457,613 1,783,225
Debtors .. 2.8,568 63,138 26,069 22,580
Cash, etc. .. 225,215 116,027 17,860 166,427
♦ Includes balance unpaid purchase money
(£805,000) on new Sydney property.
An overdraft of £174,555 was rubbed out,
trade creditors increased by £52,683 and
stocks by £325,612. Later on the co. will
need a lot more money than it has at
the moment, or has thus far arranged
for, and no doubt shareholders will be
asked to assist.
The immediate outlook favors main-
tenance of a high level of turnover, but
a gradual sharpening of competition and
increasing buyers’ discrimination in pur-
chases, with costs still on the up-grade.
However, the big variety chain cos. are
better equipped than most other traders
for such a struggle, and Coles’s experience
during the early 1930’5, when the div.
never dropped below 10 p.c., is a, hearten-
ing one.
The market backs the co.’s high earn-
ing-capacity and prices the f.-p. ss. ords.
at 19s. 6d. —the figure fluctuated between
19s. Bd. and 17s. 6d. over the last nine
months. The immediate return at 19s. 6d.
is 3.8 p.c. on a 15 p.c, div. basis. The
pound prefs. at 395, 6d. yield 4 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £2O 9s. 6d. prefs, and
9s. sd. ords.
Associated Pulp and Paper Mills (Tas.)
Towards
Re-
April. Profit. Dividends. serves. Deficit.*
£ £ £ £
1942 i. 121,631 6 p.c. = 90,300 31,381 252,380
1943.. 108,545 6 ~ „ 90,300 18,245 234,185
1944.. 125,791 6 „ „ 90,480 35,311 198,824
1945.. 101,634 6 „ „ 94,620 7,014 191,810
A.P.P.M. and Subsidiary.
Add reserve adjustment, net.. 59,415 132,395
1946.. 106,228 6 p.c. = 96,000 10,223 122,172
1947.. 100,813 6 „ „ 96,000 4,813 117,359
From tax provision, £13,000 .. .. 104,359
Added intangibles, £12,952 .. .. 117,311
Add forfeited share reserve, £1062 .. 116,249
1948.. 83,492 6 p.c. = 96,000 128,757
Intangibles reduced, £3OB .. .. 128,449
1949.. 04,537 6 p.c. = 96,000 129,912
•After deducting intangibles (now £445,758) from
reserves: and excluding depreciation reserve (now
, , £1,078,624).
It will be a couple of years or more
before this 13-year-old pioneer of Aus-
tralian-made fine writing and printing
papers, and its subsidiary and two
associated cos., develop their full earn-
ing capacity. Meanwhile, appearances
are that the parent will have a struggle
to earn enough to cover 6 p.c. div. re-
quirements.
Demand has been far ahead of output
from the parent’s two machines at Burnie
(Tas.), and the products compare favor-
ably with, and sell cheaper than, similar
imported lines, notwithstanding the recent
sharp fall in overseas prices. A third
machine, which will lift output by over
30 p.c., came into production toward the
close of last accounts, and a fourth is
expected to be in operation by Sept., 1950.
The wholly-owned subsidiary (issued
capital £1,344,526) is pushing ahead with
development of its 184,000-acre forest
area (from which the parent draws fire-
wood and pulpwood) and erection of its
big sawmill and 10,000-ton-p.a. hard-
pressed board-mill, the products of which
are expected to get on to the market about
end 1950.
Rigid price-control has limited earn-
ings and kept the div. at 6 p.c. Last term
a fractional increase in output, better
shipping facilities and tardy increases in
selling prices lifted net earnings by £11,045
to £94,537, which was £1463 short of the
amount the 6 p.c, div. called for, leaving
£129,912 of the capital unrepresented by
tangibles when the books closed. The
profit was written after allowing for de-
preciation (£163,496, down £22,849) and
taxation (£39,530, down £10,963) and
using £31,150 of the depreciation reserve,
etc. (now £1,078,624) to write off in-
ventory losses on imported pulp, owing
to a fall in prices. While this didn’t
affect last term’s declared profit, it will do
so in the current year, the chairman says.
And during the current and succeeding
terms there will be a lot more capital to
feed. To help finance its own and its
subsidiary’s expanding activities, the
parent doubled its capital, raising the
figure to £3,200,000, by the issue of
1.600.000 new £1 ords. at par in Aug.,
1947 —the final £948,545 on that lot came
in last term. But the new shares do not
rank for dividends until Oct., 1949. So
6 p.c. for the current term will call for
£144,000 (£49,463 more profit than was
claimed last term) and for £192,000 in the
following year, when a lot of new assets
should be contributing to the pool.
In association with Thomas Owen and
Co., Ltd. (Wales), A.P. and P. has be-
come interested in two other papermaking
ventures. One, Thomas Owen and Co.
(Aust.), Ltd., has an issued capital of
£1,750,000 in 750,000 4\ p.c. prefs. and
the balance ords. The prefs. were pub-
licly subscribed and the ords. taken one-
half by A.P. and P. for cash (now paid
to Is. each) and the other half, credited
as paid to 16s. each in part-payment for
plant, by Thomas Owen and Co., Ltd,
The new co.’s mill at Burnie (Tas.), now
being erected, is to turn out parchment,
greaseproof and other specialty papers.
The other co., Ballarat Paper Mills Pty.,
has issued £500,000-worth of scrip in
200.000 4i p.c. prefs., taken by the public,
and 300,000 ords. (now called to 3s. each)
taken in equal parcels by A.P. and P.,
Thomas Owen (Aust.) and British Coated
Board and Paper Mills. By reason of its
holding in Thomas Owen (Aust.), A.P.
and P, has virtually a half-interest in this
Ballarat venture, which is to make art
and other coated papers. Production is
scheduled to begin in about nine months’
time.
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures for the parent and subsidiary:
Consolidated Figures.
(Parent and subsidiary.)
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital ~ £1,600,000 £2,251,455 £3,200,000
Liabilities.. .. 234,284 618,527 224,617
Tax provision .. 136,327* 50,779 88,332
Deprec’tlon reserve 756,054 945,721 1,078,624
Freehold land, etc.* 294,370 326,508 370,353
Buildings and plant* 1,768,203 2,181,558 2,986,353
Stores, etc. ~ 816,056 448,385 544,053
Finished stocks .. 109,621 90,415 70,390
Debtors .. .. 120,924 170,833 276,843
Cash, etc 49,194 595,708 259,669
Rights, preliminary
exes., etc. .. 432,806 445,758 445,450
* At cost.
The £948,545 of new capital gathered dur-
ing the year, together with allowances for
depreciation, etc., and £336,039 from the
cash holding, etc., went mainly into plant,
etc. (up £804,795), book-debts (up
£106,010) and stores, etc. (up £95,668)
and in reduction of the outside debt
(down £393,910). When the books closed
there was £1,160,000 at call on the parent’s
holdings in other cos. subsidiary
£600,000 and the other two £560,000. No
hint is given as to how it is proposed to
finance these payments.
At 295. 2d, the parent’s f.-p. pound
shares, covered by 19s. 2d, (book-value)
in net tangibles, return 4.1 p.c. on a 6 p.c.
div. basis.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940. . 133,307 8 p.c. = 113,115 7 17 692 251,715
Provident fund, £2500 )
1941.. 138,683 8 p.c. = 120,000 7 109 oqy gog
Provident fund, £2500 j 16,183 267,898
1942. 113,360 7i p.c.= 112,500 7 9fiß 9 , 8
Provident fund, £2500 )
Intangibles disclosed, £ll,lOO .. 277,358
1943. .139,204 H p.C.= 112 > 600 124,204I 24,204 301,562
Provident fund, £2500 ) ’
1944.. 142,653 8 p.c. = 120,000 7„ n 1 o 9IVI =
Provident fund, £2500 f 40,153 321,iia
1945.. 141,621 8 p.c. = 120,000 7 19 121 340,836
Provident fund, £2500 )
1946.. 140,928 8 p.c. = 120,000 1 18 428 359,264
Provident fund, £2500 .. 3
From cont’g’cies prov’n, £100,000.. 459,264
1947.. 151,620 8 p.c. = 12 °i> 00 | 29,120 488,384
Provident fund, £2500 .. 3
1948. .149,431 8 p.c. = 120,000 7 26 931 515 315
Provident fund, £2500 .. \
1949. .143,264 8 p.c. = 120,000 7 20 764 536 ,079
Provident fund, £2500 ~ ) *
Commonwealth statistics show that Aus-
tralian beer production increased from
126 million gallons in 1947-48 to 148
million gallons for 1948-49, a nse of over
17 pc, and breweries in the thirsty
northern State shared in the improvement
Still, there was a shrinkage of £6168 in
this’co’s net earnings, making the con-
traction £8356 over the last two years.
Last term’s £143,264 of profit was 9.5 p.c.
on capital as against 9.9, 10.1, 9.4, 9.4,
9 5 and 9.3 p.c. back to 1943. The figure
was written after allowing £150,000 (down
£10,000) for taxation, £11,652 (up £1842)
for depreciation and whatever was con-
sidered necessary for other contingencies.
The div. was kept at 8 p.c. and the usual
£2500 was sent to the staff fund.
Will the drift, which is due to the
steep rise in costs outstripping the benefits
from expanding turnover, continue until
the 8 p.c. div.—equal to only 5.9 p.c. on
shareholders’ funds is endangered?
Everything depends upon what happens
in connection with the turnover, costs (a
stubborn item) and selling prices (which
are officially controlled). With things as
they are, any contraction in turnover
would obviously be reflected in a much
sharper shrinkage in net earnings.
On the demand side, a buoyant national
income, “full” employment and growth
of population augur well for the im-
mediate outlook, though the horizon is far
from cloudless. Wage, transport and
other costs, aggravated by shorter working
hours, are still rising, the unions continue
to press for yet-higher wage-rates, and
there is no sign of an early recession in
the high price of hops,* barley, sugar
(which will presently go up another H
a pound) and other brewing ingredients.
For these and other reasons, brewers in
Victoria were recently granted an increase
of 2d. a gallon (sd. was asked for) in
the selling-price of bulk beer. N. S.
Wales brewers have twice asked for, and
twice been refused, permission to lift
the selling-price of beer, which has
political as well as financial implications.
In the northern State, where this co.
and the Queensland Brewery divide a
lion’s share of the trade, there has been
no lift in selling prices either. So,
although the 8 p.c. div. may be in no
immediate danger, it is doubtful how
long it can be maintained without some
increase in selling-prices and/or reduc-
tion in costs. The Government makes
off with far the biggest whack of brewery
takings; excise alone (4s. 7d. a gallon)
amounts to about 73 p.c. of gross receipts
from bulk beer, leaving only ss. sd. in
the pound for the brewer, who carries all
the risks and is taxed again on profits.
Confident that price-control authority
will accede to the reasonable requests of
the trade before the drift continues too
far, and knowing that turnover holds
relatively well even in bad times, the
market expresses its confidence in the co.’s
ability to maintain an 8 p.c. distribution
by pricing the f.-p. 12s. 6d. shares at
275. (295. 4d. nine months ago), giving
a return of 3.7 p.c. Visibly the cover is
16s, lid. in net tangibles.
Last term the co. spent £37,236 more
than was written off on the brewery,
hotels, etc., and will have no trouble in
meeting further outlay on reconditioning,
etc., as materials and labor become
available:
1940. 1947. 1948. 1949.
& & £ £
Paid capital 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,600,000
Creditors* 316,898 308,825 372,012 478,982
Tax reserve 106,000 165,000 160,000 160,000
Brewery, ware-
Hotels 3 ’ et °' 1 523’471 } 2 . 026 > 684 2 .014,855 2;051,671
Stocks !! ’122’,764 134,004 142,422 191,894
Debtors .. 95,159 96,908 105,782 6,616
Cash, etc... 32,237 285,113 347,288 478,030
* Includes unstated provision lor contingencies.
Most of the year’s reduction of £99,267
in debtors’ balances and growth of
£106,920 in sundry creditors, etc,, went
into cash, etc. (up £130,742), which in-
cludes £225,000 (up £130,000) of Com-
monwealth bonds. Stocks increased by
£48,972, partly an insurance against the
rising costs of ingredients.


72 COL
4/0 orz/tt P&4/C/6 0/?rSfi/4/&/A/
ini COLOURS
c*
ism
9
f
0
o
>
No other colour
pencil equals the
“Derwent” for the
superfine quality of both
lead and wood, the purity and
brilliance of the primary colours
and the delicacy of the pastel tints.
In all 72 accurately repeated colours,
no refinement has been spared to obtain
the highest degree of light fastness and
general permanence. The colours mix and blend
well in both wet and dry applications ; effects
similar to water colour and tempera may be obtained by
applying solvents such as Dekalin. Unquestionably, the
“Derwent” will measure up to your most exacting demands.
If unobtainable from your stationer, kindly contact your nearest agent.
Supplied in neat attrac-
tive stand cases in the
complete range of 72,
or in 36, 24, and 12
assorted colours. Also
boxes of 12 separate
colours.
( PENCIL COMPANY LIMITED")
Representatives in Australia
Vie., S. Aust. and Tas. : HUBERT JOHNSON PTY. LTD., 324-330 Flinders St.
MELBOURNE, C.l. N.S.W. and Queensland: WYNYARD TRADING CO.i
Kembla Bldg., Margaret St., SYDNEY. W. Aust.; CHAS. A. DONALD
Economic Chambers, William St., PERTH.
ADVERT OF BRITISH PENS LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENGLAND.
Taste
Reflects
• Character
*ie*xsi
1 mrnoi ' IS "•“■‘ir.
•Hiti»o» *> UIM *om. - *
IIdSOH 1V133d;
‘ffj
Just as a man’s tastes reflect his character, so in
a different sense, but just as surely, the taste
of a fine brandy reveals its “character” . . .
that quality of smooth, mellow perfection you
find in TOLLEY’S.
TOLLEY'S
SPECIAL
w
BRANDY
HOSPITAL
Famous for 90 years.
NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRIBUTORS: TOOTH & CO.
LIMITED
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic
Lifts, Limited (incorporated by Act of
Parliament 1888), hydraulic, electric and
general engineers, lift specialists. Main-
tenance and repairs of all classes of lifts
and other machinery. 182-204 Dowling
Street, Waterloo. Telephone: MX 2208.
For Sale.
SALE: A fine heavy ten-stamp
Battery, complete with building,
conveniently situated N.S.W.
Also other mining plant. Par-
ticulars—
T. J. M. HIGGINS,
Box 93, Clermont,
Queensland.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
filter
Cylinder
TO
GUTHRIDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Hoad,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
Cigarette Lighter Service
We stock spare parts for every well-
known make of Cigarette Lighter.
Send your defective lighter to us.
Repairs returned post free to any
address in the Commonwealth.
ROLLS RAZOR
CO. OF AUBT. PTY,, LTD.,
8a Castlereagh St., Sydney. Bff 2038
"T
THE
PUBLIC
TRUSTEE
Acts as
. Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
•
Under
STATE GUARANTEE.
•
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
•
Writs or Call for
Free Booklet
19 O’Connell Street
(Bose 7A, 0.P.0.), Sydney.
P. J. P. Pollen, Public Trustee.
THE “WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
An Investment Guide
Single Copies ... .. .. 2/-
Yearly Subscription.. .. 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper
Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney.
HEAD OFFICE
SYDNEY
A Bank’s Tradition
of Service
The ways of a Bank such as this
are based on a heritage of close-held
traditions and sound customs. These
customs have grown out of the ex-
perience and the needs of those who
use it.
One such tradition is that the
Bank will always find its greatest satis-
faction in helping the “small” customer
to become a big one.
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK «E VICTORIA LIMITED
The Base-metal Market
The adjustment of British base-
metal prices to American pari-
ties following the devaluation of
sterling carried London quotes
for lead and copper back to the
peaks reached earlier this year,
and lifted tin to a new record
level. The increases per ton
were lead £S34 155., zinc £S24,
copper £S32 10s. and tin £S 181.
The new prices and - the range
of fluctuation that has occurred
this year are as follows:
LONDON METAL PRICES
(Per Ton).
New , 1949
Price. High. Low.
Lead .. £SI22 £SI23 £S75i
Zinc .. 873 101 58“
Copper ~ 140 140 1073
Tin .. 750 569 569
The price of Straits tin for sale
in U.S. has been reduced from
103 cents to 95 cents per pound,
c.i.f. New York. The price to
other customers will be the
sterling equivalent, namely £5739
a ton ex smelters. Spot price of
lead in New York on Sept. 28
was 14.75 cents a pound, equal
to £S 118 a ton. The British
Ministry of Supply price (£SI22
a ton), which includes about £S6
a ton for freight and delivery,
is equal to £AIS2 10s. a ton.
The fixed maximum Aus-
tralian price of metals per ton
for local consumption remains
unaltered at lead £A3S, zinc
£A4O, electrolytic copper £AIBO
(buying), and tin £A555 (buy-
ing). Overseas buyers are thus
not only providing most of the
profit and divs. of Australian
producers, but are also heavily
subsidising local consumers.
The lifts in sterling prices,
combined with substantially-
increased profits and divs. de-
clared by the Barrier cos. and
others, and the better earnings
of Malayan dredges, especially
those in the Austral-Malay,
Anglo - Oriental, Burma - Malay
and Tongkah Harbor groups,
have resulted in sharp rises in
the market price of scrip in the
producing cos. Here is what has
happened in connection with
three of the Barrier cos.:
North B.H. New
Profit.*— B.H. South. B.H.
1948 ~ £979,822 £916,246 £189,131
1949 .. 1,712,451 1,376,198 322,392
Divs
1948 .. 150 p.c. 110 p.c. '2op.tr.
1949 .. 120 „ 130 „ 20 „
Sharesf —
End Aug. 73/3 47/9 34/-
29/9/’49 85/- 52/9 38/3
* Declared profit after allowing for taxa-
tion, depreciation, etc. f Market price ;
face value 5/- in each case.
New Broken Hill, which is still
in the development stage, will
not reach full production until
1952, or later.
Mt. Isa, the big medium-grade
lead-zinc producer in N.Q.,
shared in the general experience.
Accounts to June 30 last are not
yet available, but production in-
creased, an interim 10 p.c. div.
has been paid, and more than
that is expected as a final distri-
bution, yet to be declared. With
an eye, to the future, and to a
possible fall in metal prices, the
co. has just relieved some of the
pressure of its big debenture
debt (£2,195,397 at June 30,
1948) by redeeming the 6 p.c.
“B” stock, held by American
Smelting and Refining Co.
(£539,151 at June 30, 1948), in
exchange for 462,128 £1 ords.
priced at 28s. each (=£646,979).
Arrangements have also been
made with Mining Trust, Ltd.,
to redeem £229,158 of the 8 p.c.
“B” stock (about one-quarter of
that co.’s holding) by an ex-
change of shares on a par basis
on May 31, 1952. Since Aug.
31 Isa’s £1 ords. have ad-
vanced from 365. 3d. to 425, 3d.
in the market.
Accounts to June 30, 1949,
for Electrolytic Zinc, the big re-
fining co. at Risdon (Tas.), are
not yet available, but the div.
has been raised from 15 p.c. to
20 p.c., and the market has
lengthened its bid for the pound,
ords. from 655, 6d. to 765. over
the last four weeks.
It is too early yet to say how
long metal prices are likely to
hold around present levels'. The
basis of the recent rise is due
not to fundamental market
causes but to monetary, or infla-
tionary, factors, which threaten
repercussions on the costs side
of the ledger. The British
Government’s decision to aban-
don bulk-buying and reopen the
London Metal Exchange is a
move, long overdue, in the right
direction. Meanwhile, the flat-
tening-out of the recessionary
trend in U.S., and continued
Government stockpiling there,
are heartening features.
Apart from renewed confi-
dence in the future, there seems
little immediate prospect of big
developments on the Westralian
goldfields following the rise in
the price of the yellow metal.
One of the main benefits will be
that marginal producers, such as
Paringa and South Kalgurli on
the Golden Mile, Sons of
Gwalia at Leonora, and Big Bell
on the Murchison field, are no
longer in danger of closing
down. Development and pros-
pecting work by Wiluna on the
Mount Charlotte area, at the
northern end of Kalgoorlie, is
likely to be pushed ahead with
more vigor. At Norseman,
Central Norseman Gold Corp.
will continue its search at depth
in the Mararoa, and, with the
addition of a new ball mill,
hopes to step up throughput
from 12,000 tons to 15,000 tons
ore a month by end 1949. But
shortage of labor and the lag
in delivery of mining machinery
threaten to delay early produc-
tion from such properties as
Porphyry and Western Mining
Corp.’s holdings on the Yilgarn
field. Spargo’s Reward, a small
producer on the Coolgardie field,
which closed down in 1942
owing to shortage of capital and
other causes, is likely to come
to life again.


Old friends
are best friends!
The name is_
# L
ft
(yrs>
an
°^x m
(fjbzfz&turn.
Z^k
y
a °*hi
*o* cv
(ft'Gdlums
The luhiskij is.
C JheJauce uJilk a deckel.
Xb
V.
Sa
■V 5:
\ N
o
J
me
_ n
-
E> ® —P
tr-
m
w%
m
.AJ
m*
m
;
h
BM
u H
&8m
m
mm
Matured like
Old Wine
which imparts
its
“Secret Flavour”
LEA & PERRINS SAUCE
for information only.
PEKO (TENNANT CREEK) GOLD MINES
NO LIABILITY
Incorporated under the Companies Act, 1936 , of the State of New South Wales.
ISSUE OF 800,000 ORDINARY SHARES OF 2/6 EACH
Payable 6d. Application and Allotment
and the balance by calls as required.
NOMINAL CAPITAL
800.000 ORDINARY SHARES OF 2/6 EACH -
CAPITAE ALLOCATION
Shares to Vendors
200.000 Ordinary Shares of 2/6 each
Shares allotted to Public
600.000 Ordinary Shares of 2/6 each
£lOO,OOO
800,000
£25,000
£75,000
£lOO,OOO
RIRFCTORS -)
ALEXANDER SYDNEY PHILLIPS SANGSTER, Company Director (Chairman), 20
JOH? r sSfS^ S iaGMf .nd o,ner. North™ St.r ***.
GORDON McSSs'wSi'EWN. Stock ..d Stare Broke, 117 Pitt Street, Sydney
(N.S.W.). auditors
ROBT. ATKINSON & CO., Chartered Accountants (Aust.), 4 Castlereagh Street.
Sydney. sIi , rI . PTAR v A nd REGISTERED OFFICE
G. B. LEAN, B.Ec., Chartered Accountant (Aust.), 60 Hunter Strec , y
GORDON D. WHARTON B of the Sydney Stock
W. Adelaide (Member of the Adelaide Stock
ARTHUR a L ge LONG, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne (Member of the Stock Exchange
A. G°. f BIRD U & e) SONS, 97 St. George’s Terrace, Perth (Members of the Stock
Exchange of Perth).
nwTATT.S OF THE COMPANY
In 1935 Tennant oS Development Coy. BWttd w.^f.me^tott.jnrpn.
of testing and developing leases, * t in P thig ore body, with levels at 170
an average value of XOAdwts.
t 0 1937^
out for the Commonwealth Government thg Peko body> TbiB was located
ironstone body below and slightly to the no^ p , . 971 feet gtill in"the ore body
by diamond drilling, at 240 DrigW <XaSSSS® to Mother district,
due to the plant being urgently require X . to adding to proven ore
The Company intends to develop the leases with »ww»» hi|h-gmde values
reserves, with Particular attention to th 210 been fully defined, and
ttttei ore body reeled by th. neophyte
"'Tell oi 9d. per .tar. lollowinß Allotment.
The Company will WSt?S%
of Sydney, Melbourne and Adelaide in
Associated Stock Exchanges.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Sharemarket Activity
It is hard to rid the share-
market of its rude, unreasoning
gambling spirit. It is ever prone
to excesses of optimism and
pessimism. When the B.H.P.
issue was on offer a couple of
months ago the shares, and
more especially the rights, were
sold down to ridiculously low
figures, Bs. sd. being accepted for
the rights in Sydney at one
period and 41s. 9d. for the fully-
pai d s. On B.H.P. figures
analysed and quoted by The
Bulletin there was no doubt
about the bargain which these
shares represented. But it was
only towards the close of the
issue that the market brightened
for B.H.P. scrip.
On July 27 North Broken Hill
shares were available at 685.,
compared with a highest quote
for the year of 925. 9d. and a
lowest of 565. 6d. Souths were
quoted at 435. in July. Follow-
ing the devaluation of sterling
and the ensuing rise in metal
prices overseas North shares
rose as high as 88s. and
South 555. These Barrier con-
lerns, exporting a large propor-
ion of their production, are
lirectly affected by the state of
he lead-zinc market overseas,
ind a big rise in their market
/alue is understandable, though
he ultimate benefit of the higher
prices to the cos. in terms of
ictual profit is subject to a num-
ber of considerations.
The timing of the rise
hat soon afterwards occurred
in the market for indus-
trial shares is not so readily
mderstandable. Between Sep-
tember 23 and 28 there was a
lift of 4s. 9d. in A.C.I. (to 595.
3d.), 475. 6d. in C.S.R. £2O
shares (to £63 ss), Is. 3d. in
B.H.P. fully-paids (to 48s. 3d.),
Is. 6d. in the contribs. (to 265.),
Is. 3d. in Dunlop Rubber (to
40s. 6d.), 2s. in General Indus-
tries (to 345. 6d.), and Is. 3d. in
Tooth (to 795. 9d.). All these
increases have apparently been
influenced by the rise in Barriers
and goldmining scrip ; they are,
in other words, purely the result
of improved market “tone.”
There was certainly little other
reason for most of them at the
time.
B.H.P. scrip at 48s. was not by
any means above its prospective
worth. But it was 6s, 3d. above
what was accepted for it in July,
and the contribs. were up as
much as 7s. 7d. A.C.I. at last
week’s peak was up 9s. on the
year’s “low.” In nearly every
case, before the week ended,
there was a market reaction.
The ways of the sharemarket
may therefore be judged to be
exceeding strange. There is
little doubt that the low prices
of a few months ago were not
justified, and that many of the
recent recoveries were fully war-
ranted—but not on the score of
the devaluation of sterling.
Vastly more important to B.H.P.
and A.C.1., for instance, would
be the coming-forward of ade-
quate suplies of coal and compe-
tent manpower. And that would
be so with most industries. The
recent currency moves are more
likely to raise manufacturing
costs than Australian selling
prices.
Since they are more directly
affected, Barrier shares should
be bought only after a full con-
sideration of prospective cost in-
creases and the possibility of a
revaluation of the Australian
pound in relation to sterling
after December 10 next. The
Chifley Government has been in-
fluenced in its decision to depre-
ciate against the dollar rather
than appreciate with sterling be-
cause of its precarious situation
in rural electorates and because
of a Caucus faction led by Eddie
Ward. It was only by elabo-
rate political manoeuvring that
Chifley was able to get Caucus
to approve the Bretton Woods
Agreement in the face of Ward
and company’s opposition.
Regardless of whether Chifley
or Menzies leads the Govern-
ment after December 10, there
will be a gradual revelation of
the effects of an undervalued
Australian pound in relation to
the dollar, and with elections out
of the way for three years the
Treasury’s approach to the sub-
ject of exchange may be more
economic and less political. If
the Australian pound comes
closer to parity with sterling it
will mean a fall in the Common-
wealth price of base metals,
gold, wool and most other ex-
ports.
Earning Dollars
There has been a lot said
about the effects of devaluation
of the pound sterling both upon
the British and Australian
economies, and it has been em-
phasised that it will now take
144 units of a given British or
Australian product to earn the
same number of dollars as 100
units of the same thing did be-
fore—that is assuming that the
price does not rise. If devalua-
tion is going to effect any im-
provement in our dollar deficit,
then exports of the sterling area
to the dollar area will have to
increase, in value, by more than
44 p.c.
In August Paul Hoffman, the
Marshall Aid administrator, put
it pithily: “I know of no other
constructive way to close a
dollar deficit than to earn a
dollar income.” And to earn
that dollar income it is necessary
for the British Commonwealth
and its sterling associates to be-
come more abundantly produc-
tive —to increase the output per
man per working week. The
real costs of production, ex-
pressed in man-hours of labor,
must be reduced, and perhaps
more man-hours worked each
week.
Except for currency con-
siderations, the dollar problem
remains very similar to what it
has been for many years. And
the sterling area must keep itself
familiar with the essentials of
the problem. The Economic In-
formation Unit of the British
Treasury retold the story a few
weeks ago, apparently in antici-
pation of a devaluation move:
Even before the war the United
Kingdom was paying with exports to
North America for only about a third
of the supplies obtained from North
America. The difference was made
up in three main ways:—
1. With dollars earned by large
investments in North America.
2. With dollars earned from other
countries —Malaya and West Africa,
for example—which sold more to the
dollar area than they bought from it.
3. By the sale of new gold mined
in the sterling area (mostly South
Africa) and sold to the U.K. for
sterling.
The volume of imports from North
America is now smaller than before
the war (in 1948 about a fifth smaller
than iff 1938), and the volume of
exports from this country to North
America is slightly larger. But the
other methods of paying for dollar
supplies have all changed. These are
some of the main changes:
1. During the war, and particularly
in the first eighteen months (that was
before lend-lease started), British
investments in North America were
sold to the extent of £428 million —
to pay for the food, planes, arms
and other supplies without which the
war could not have been carried on.
The dollar income from these invest-
ments has gone for good, while the
value of the investments that were
not sold has been reduced by the
higher prices that must now be paid
for imports.
2. The war has also tended to make
the United States more self-sufficient.
One example has been the develop-
ment of synthetic rubber production
in America, reducing her dependence
on Malayan supplies of natural
rubber. As a result of this increased
self-sufficiency, American imports
have not expanded as fast as Ameri-
can production and exports. While
the dollar value of U.S. exports has
risen by over 370 per cent, (compared
with the 1934-38 average), U.S. im-
ports have risen only 220 per cent. —
and those supplied by the sterling
area only 190 per cent.
3. At the same time as the U.S.A.
has become less dependent on sterling
supplies, the sterling countries have
become more dependent on dollar
supplies (especially of basic foods).
In 1947 the United Kingdom took
a third of her supplies from the
dollar area, compared with less than
a quarter in 1938; and, although the
proportion has now been reduced to
a fifth, it is made up of goods essen-
tial to our continued recovery. Other
sterling countries, however, are still
importing very much more from
North America than they used to do.
India and Pakistan together, for
example, took nine times as much by
value in 1948 as in 19p8 and South
Africa took seven times as much.
4. The dollar price of gold has
remained more or less stable since
before the war, while dollar prices
of U.K. imports from North America
have roughly doubled. As a means
of paying for dollar imports, there-
fore, the value of our gold supplies
has greatly fallen.
During the first critical years of
Socialist government in the
Commonwealth The Bulletin
warned Australian's that we
would emerge from the hot-
house of lend-lease and other
war-time economic arrange-
ments, especially (afterwards) in
view of the 40-hour week
and other post-war Socialistic
innovations, with our indus-
trial constitution weakened in
a way that would make
it extremely vulnerable to the
chill wind of economic reality.
Now we find the dollar problem
more acute than it ever was,,
even more than in the pre-war
days when it was supposed to
be one of the reasons for the
rise of Hitler and Mussolini.
Socialism in the British
Empire has not solved this
problem of international trade.
It has made it worse. In Britain,
it is true, with the world starving
for goods, industrial output per
man in 1948 was 8 p.c. higher
than in 1938, and, with a greater
number employed, total output
was 20 p.c. or so greater than in
that last pre-war year. But in
Australia we are now producing
less steel, pig-iron, lead and gold
than we did in 1938-39; and
the gross black-coal position has
only improved because of the
opencut operations. The wool
clip has not increased in volume,
and dairy production, as with
meat, has fallen in total output.
When the vastly increased “em-
ployment” in Australia is set
alongside these gross figures the
heavy fall in output per man in
10 years becomes dreadfully
apparent. Until we improve on
pre-war output per man we will
be nowhere in the picture so far
as adequate dollar-earning is
concerned.
And the inflation danger, fol-
lowing devaluation, is a very
real one. Raw-material prices
have risen almost automatically
already, and although it may be
the present purpose to keep the
price of manufactured goods
stable in sterling countries, the
fact that there is now an “export
premium” may induce weak
Governments to yield to de-
mands from pressure-groups for
higher figures. Such yielding
would soon cause financial and
industrial demoralisation.
The dollar problem and that
of restoring or improving British
and Australian living standards
can only be solved by more dili-
gent work, less wastage of money
and manpower by Governments,
and, above all, by greater all-
round production.


V s
V
t:he
responsibility
'
is yours
j
2" ; '’
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with th 6 utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company's many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
Jaynes Bums Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, P.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel.: BU 5901 Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BP2-
INSURANCE —for your protection
UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY OF CANTON, LTD.
(Incorporated in Hong Kong .)
A British Office. FUNDS EXCEED £10,000,000. Established 1835.
N.S.W. Branch: 6-8 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
Telephone BWBI3I (3 lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
No. 5 in SHELL’S " Australian Artists ” Series
7rXJ>
'mm.
IBSil
iE
- : -
S
IBS
.
frsf" WWI
PO -
-
Mi
P-V.
UJ
a lll
.;.. \V-L
T=j
t>S
J
-•■? -"5 <•*!!
ffyafesnaia
: : ■ -.;.
-Hit*S^f::::
i&'&vAS
-r—rtl - ~mJ. .T, ~
' . -*6 •'* ’ .J' - •
THE REFINING OF PETROLEUM PRODUCTS: CLYDE, N.S.W.
with a scene interpreted by Eric Thake
The maze of pipes, columns, boilers
and tubes that makes up a modern oil
refinery gave fine scope to Eric Thake,
well-known ex R.A.A.F. artist whose
work is always notable for intense
interest in abstract form. His painting
of the Shell Company’s oil refinery at
Clyde, N.S.W., the largest operating
in Australia, dramatically portrays one
of the phases of oil refining.
Shell’s Clyde Refinery has been oper-
ating since 1928 and has produced more
than five hundred million gallons of
motor spirit, power kerosine, diesel
and fuel oils, solvents and bitumen.
Extensions to Clyde will produce over
two and a half million gallons of
lubricating oils per annum. This,
plus the proposed new refinery at
Geelong, Victoria, will ensure for
Australia a continuous flow of locally
refined petroleum products of the
highest possible standard.
Eric Thake’s dramatic rendition of the
above scene in full colour will be published
by Shell as occasion offers.
You can be sure of
SHELL
ẁ
The Shell Company of Australia Ltd. (Inc. in Great Britain)
04968
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
These are days of lengthening
shadows and cold snaps. The
drooping autumn sun, a nip in
the night air, raw early mists
and faded leaves spinning
groundwards are pointers to
winter’s natural austerity. Now
that it is gone, leaving in its trail
a serious water shortage, sum-
mer is sadly missed. It was a
rare tonic, with its sunshine,
warmth and holidays; and cer-
tainly nothing has taken its place
(except, to the devotees perhaps,
professional soccer) as a ready
means of keeping people’s minds
away from their worries.
No one can fairly pretend that
confidence—quiet, firm confi-
dence —is a feature of British
life at present. There have been
too many dark shadows of other
kinds, with apprehension and
perplexity. The attitude of mind
that has pervaded recent events
such as the trade-union congress,
the Washington talks and the
Socialist “national rally” at
Butlin’s Holiday Camp has been
“It will all come right in the
end” rather than “Are we doing
all that we can?”
The Prime Minister’s speech
to the T.U.C. was a keen dis-
appointment to the country
generally, for it was thought that
he would have made use of the
chance to speak out straight
from the shoulder about the
dollar crisis ; instead, it was a
milk-and-watery platitude. Many
of the T.U.C. leaders, after
approving “in principle” the
Government’s policy of wage-
stabilisation, are now supporting
claims for wage-increases
amounting to £126 million a
year—and there are more to
come.
Over the Washington talks the
Socialist Press took a rather
more stringent line than usual,
showing concern and emphasis-
ing to its readers that their chief
hope was “only restraint in seek-
ing to increase personal income.”
There has been no sense of crisis
apparent, nor has any positive,
defined action been suggested.
Easy Money
Meanwhile, in Butlin’s lavish
pleasure-drome at Filey, some
4000 picked delegates, mainly
under 25, have taken a week off
from work to practise being
fraternal while gazing in rever-
ential awe at some of the party
bigwigs who were sent there to
teach them how to conduct a
general election. There were
“keeping-fit‘classes, beauty com-
petitions and aquatic displays,
interspersed with serious
addresses by leading members of
the Government.” Like the last
night of the Proms, emotional
fervor was more characteristic
than balanced judgment.
What is less well known is
that this holiday was paid for
out of trade-union funds, since
delegates could claim fares and
payment for lost time, which
may have been as much as 30s.
a day. Add to this the fact that
the unions are contributing to
Labor-party funds a political
levy of about £114,000 a year,
and it is clear that Labor looks
after itself very well. In 1945
this contribution was only
£51,000, and a union member
could not be dunned for his levy
unless he had expressly signed
his agreement to it. The next
year, by legislation, the Govern-
ment made it necessary for a
man to contract out; thus, with
one stroke, the income was
automatically doubled.
What are the ordinary decent
men and women, who don’t wish
to become involved in party
politics but who have a sincere
desire to pull their weight with-
out union or other protection,
to make of all this? The answer
is, nothing very much. They are
puzzled, and if they give up the
task of trying to sort it out they
are hardly to be blamed.
Slashing Reduction
The black cloud of devalua-
tion, after dodging about for
some weeks, has now let loose
its cheerless content. If the an-
nouncement came as no shock,
the extent of the 30 per cent,
slash certainly did. The Chan-
cellor, who is a very good broad-
caster, sounded a shade hesitant
and less fresh and natural than
he usually does. Perhaps he
felt, as most of us did, im-
patient to get the worst over.
But what is yet to come? Cer-
tainly not the straightforward
state of affairs outlined by him.
The fundamental condition of
our restoration —and even, in-
deed, of our survival—does not
change. It is hard, efficient and
intelligent work. Unfortunately,
because of the underlying tenets
of Socialism, which depend upon
the existence of a Lady Bounti-
ful to watch over the faithful,
that grim fact has become
rather obscured. There is no valid
reason to suppose that Cripps’s
warnings and adjurations will be
heeded any more than other,
similar expressions have been in
the past. Living costs will not
be increased merely by a mere
penny or so in the price of a
loaf. Faltering trade-union
leaders will find themselves less
capable than ever of meeting the
increasing pressure of wage
claims.
The decision to debase the £
(called “revaluing” by the “Daily
Herald”) is said to have been
made before the Washington
talks. Even so, it is still one-
sided and unqualified. General
confidence would have been
more real had the Government
shown that it meant what it said
by taking other steps first. That
is to say, if it had proved to be
definite and determined over the
cutting of Government expenses,
over making nationalised indus-
tries more economical and re-
moving the threat to other in-
dustries, and over the pruning
of the enormous cost of the
social services. Without evi-
dence of the will to do all these
things—and more —devaluation
can only lead us the more
quickly to inflation.
Demi-semi-Paradise
J. B. Priestley’s forward
look at England in 1975 keeps
audiences at St. Martin’s theatre
quizzingly apprehensive as well
as amused. Even if the idea has
been a little overworked,
“Summer Day’s Dream” has a
great deal to commend it. Be-
neath the fustian moralising and
the high-sounding, if not very
profound, philosophising there
are humor, lovableness and real
humanity among these people of
two worlds. And, no doubt as
a challenge to his critics after
the failure of “Home Is To-
morrow,” the craftsman’s hand
lies neat and effective in con-
cealment.
England, after a third world
war, has been devastated, de-
populated and deprived of all
modem comforts except, it
seemed, electric-light. Stephen
Dawlish, 80-year-old industrial-
ist-turned-patriarch, p'resides
over his household with old-
world charm and benevolent
didacticism. His daughter has
second-sight, which, with com-
munications non-existent, is a
gift of tremendous power. As
in the golden days the commu-
nity makes its own entertain-
ments. Stephen’s grandson and
gr a n d daughter respectively
write, vaguely, music and poetry.
“A lot o’ swappin’,” as one
character puts it, takes the place
of money. These erudite home-
spuns live by gentle arts and
manly crafts, drink home-brewed
beer and declaim Shakspeare as
if they had been trained to do
nothing else.
A deputation of three people,
two of them men and one a
woman, arrives by helicopter
from the wider, but by no means
happier, world, and is, perforce,
compelled to stay much longer
than the few hours necessary to
assess the industrial potential of
the chalk in the South Downs.
The woman, an orthodox, prag-
matic and efficient civil servant
in the Soviet Chamber of Trade,
inevitably but rather unconvinc-
ingly falls in love with the grand-
son. One of the men, an Indian
scientist, is so caught up in the
machinations of the big, big
world that he is sad and lonely
and no better for it all. The
other, an American business exe-
cutive, is both go-getter and sen-
timentalist, but readily takes to
the simple life.
They come, they stay a while
and they go—by atomic car and
at the compulsion of snarling,
dyspeptic, neurotic bosses —hav-
ing decided to let the Downs be
and to leave the Dawlishes to
themselves and a short thanks-
giving, with eyes to heaven and
incantations in the Priestley
manner.
An entertaining evening, with
honors about equally divided
between author, cast (led by
Herbert Lomas) and producer
Michael Macowan.


58k*
m
m
ordon's
Stand? Sufotowuti
Appoiotmtol
Cin Distiller*
r t® H.M. King Georg* VI
ff*nqu«r»y. Cordon ft C® Lti
Guta
/» .7
/
THE
ARMIDALE SCHOOL
N.S.W.
The only GREAT PTJBMO
SCHOOL, .situated in the
Country.
EXCELLENT CLIMATE
Extensive Grounds and Build-
ings. Junior House separate
from the rest of the School.
Illustrated Prospectus on
appl'ication to the Bursar.
O. A. FISHER, 8.A., B.Sc.,
Headmaster.
Rupture
Sufferers—try the new Roussel Free.
Enables you to do hard work with
comfort and security. Definitely
holds, a condition absolutely necessary
for improvement.
Recommended by doctors and thou-
sands of satisfied users. Satisfaction
guaranteed, no matter where you live.
Call or send stamp for
FREE details, self-measure-
ment form and 1} days’ free trial
offer. No obligation.
The Roussel Appliance Co.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
FREE
i?D
Q
/
H
iU
iiii
■■■ m
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
EMPIRE UNITY PROPOSALS.
A widely important section
of the British Conservative
party’s pre-election policy state-
ment sets forth proposals for
ensuring closer Empire (or
Commonwealth) unity, some
of these on lines advanced by
Mr. R. G. Menzies in his
“Foreign Affairs” article, which
was condensed at the time in
these pages.
Among the adopted proposals
are an improved system for con-
sultation between members of
the British Empire and Com-
monwealth, a Commonwealth
Tribunal to which disputes be-
tween Commonwealth members
could be referred, a Common-
wealth Combined Staff for
defence, and complete standard-
isation of equipment, organisa-
tion and training throughout the
entire field of Imperial defence,
There is some affirming of
faith in U.N.0., and also in
regional arrangements such as
Western Union, but it is laid
down that the party “will not
allow any such agreement to
override or conflict with the
political, economic or defence
obligations falling on Great
Britain as a member of the
British Empire and Common-
wealth pf Nations.”
The policy statement suggests
that to improve the machinery
of consultation within the Com-
monwealth there should be more
frequent conferences between
Prime Ministers, not necessarily
in London, and that the estab-
lishment of a civil liaison staff,
with representatives in each of
the capital cities, should be con-
sidered.
It further proposes a Com-
monwealth Tribunal to carry out
the functions at present per-
formed by the Judicial Commit-
tee of the Privy Council, which,
with appropriate modifications to
its membership, might become an
advisory panel to which disputes
between Commonwealth mem-
bers which cannot be resolved by
other methods could be referred.
The party accepts the position
established by the British Nation-
ality Act, but holds itself free to
return to the old conception of
common citizenship, if it should
be the wish of the other
Dominions and member-States.
It will encourage closer social
and cultural contact between
Empire citizens, fostering in par-
ticular the exchange of radio and
television programmes and films,
and instituting special cheap
postal and telephone rates.
In addition to a Common-
wealth Combined Staff, the party
believes there is sufficient com-
mon ground between the
Dominions on major inter-
national questions to justify the
development of an advisory
British Empire and Common-
wealth Defence Council. It
also hopes that the standardisa-
tion of equipment, organisation
and training of the British Com-
monwealth fighting services will
be reflected in the maximum
standardisation in these respects
between the British Common-
wealth, the United States and the
nations of Western Europe,
Attacking “the present lack of
a long-term policy for expand-
ing the resources and trade of
the British Commonwealth,” the
Conservatives propose a system
of Imperial priorities for the in-
vestment of money, capital
goods, migration, research and
trade. They will work for the
gradual deployment and expan-
sion of Britain’s industrial re-
sources throughout the Com-
monwealth by giving special en-
couragement to individuals and
firms to establish themselves in,
and open up trade with, the
Dominions and Colonies. An-
other proposal is that the United
Kingdom, the Dominions, and
the Colonies should consider
the possibility of providing
machinery for economic consul-
tation.
The statement points out that
the Conservative party has never
supported any decisions taken
at Geneva, Havana, or elsewhere
inimical to the general system
of Imperial preference. Other
methods of expanding Imperial
trade are discussed, including the
quota system and arrangements
for guaranteed markets at agreed
prices, but it is not held that
such methods need entail the
continuation of the present sys-
tem of Government bulk pur-
chase. It would be Conservative
policy to see- that, so far as pos-
sible, Commonwealth develop-
ments had first claim on United
Kingdom oversea capital invest-
ment. Private investment from
other countries, particularly the
United States, would be wel-
comed.
The object aimed at in colonial
policy is to guide the colonial
peoples along the road to self-
government within the frame-
work of the British Empire. The
conditions laid down before full
self-government is achieved are
that the country is economically
sound, with efficient social ser-
vices, and that power can be
transferred to the people as a
whole and not to a small and
unrepresentative political, racial,
or religious oligarchy. It is
pointed out that there are certain
colonies whose retention within
the Empire is essential to the
security of the Commonwealth,
and it is for that reason that the
emphasis is laid upon self-gov-
ernment within the Empire.
In its leading article on this
particular section of the Con-
servative policy programme
London “Times” expanded
on the proposal for an alterna-
tive to the Judicial Committee
of the Privy Council, “from
whose jurisdiction there is now
a general tendency to withdraw.”
“Presumably,” it comments,
“the projected court might
exercise one or more of
three distinct functions. It
might determine disputes be-
tween two States of the
Commonwealth. It might pro-
nounce on cases relating to the
division of powers between the
centre and the provinces in a
Federal Constitution, where it is
difficult for any court within
a Dominion to be wholly
detached. It might be a final
Court of Appeal for private liti-
gation everywhere, so preserving
a common core of legal prin-
ciple regarded as valid for the
interpretation of the laws of all
the Commonwealth States. Evi-
dently the last of these functions
is much the least likely of accept-
ance, even though it be recom-
mended by the Conservative pro-
posal that the court might sit
in any part of the Common-
wealth, Nevertheless, the idea is
worthy of study, and need not
necessarily be intolerable Ho
national sentiment in the
Dominions, provided—a larger
question—the United Kingdom
acknowledged the principle of
parity by submitting to the final
jurisdiction of the new court on
equal terras with her partners, as
she has not submitted to that
of the Judicial Committee.”
Hong Kong Defence.
Apart from any concrete
undertaking for U.S. support
that may have been embraced in
the Washington “dollar” pal-
avers, Britain’s own position for
defending Hong Kong is repre-
sented in a London “Time and
Tide” article as decidedly better
than it was in 1941.
In that earlier alleged defence
Major-General Maltby (“Time
and Tide” recalls) commanded
fewer than 14,000 British, Cana-
dian and Indian troops, many of
whom were partly trained and
ill-equipped. His total air de-
fence consisted of six obso-
lescent planes. All British naval
units were withdrawn to Singa-
pore before the Japanese attack
began; it was an amazing feat
to hold off the Jap air, land and
sea forces even for the three
weeks, though the fight was
hopeless from the start.
“The problem facing Lieut.-
General Testing is a very differ-
ent one. He will soon have
almost twice as many troops, and
they are apparently fully trained
and well equipped. Instead of
being concentrated on Victoria
Island and in Kowloon and its
immediate approaches, they are
deployed in depth throughout
the 400 square miles of the New
Territories. There seems to be
ample air support, both carrier-
and land-based, and the Navy is
very much in evidence. Hong
Kong today should be a very
hard nut to crack.”
So much for the purely mili-
tary problem; but the article
comments, “The ultimate politi-
cal objective is, of course, to
make it quite clear to Mao Tse-
tung and his advisers that any
attempt to overrun the colony
would not only involve the
Chinese Communists in a costly
offensive on the spot, but would
constitute a challenge to both
Great Britain and the United
States that neither could ignore.
“Until fairly recently there
seemed to be some doubt as to
whether we could count on
American backing in the event
of an attack on Hong Kong.
Chinese-American relations have


Established 1808 in Reign of
George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle
of Waterloo, and has em-
erged from them all with
greater strength and pres-
tige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS,
8 SPRING STREET, SYDNEY.
F. T. MIERS, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER, Assistant Manager
for Australia and New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT, Manager
for Australia and New Zealand-
What Religious Experience
Can Mean To You
Some people regard appeals to God as childish, but many
men use prayer as a deliberate aid in their affairs. In
October Reader's Digest, Norman Vincent Peale gives some
inspiring examples showing why prayer is the greatest known
force for grappling with your problems . . . and for serenity
of the soul.
Also in October Reader’s Digest
Enjoy yourself—it’s later than
you think. Like every Billy
Rose story, its end may jolt
you. We’ll only tell you this:
here’s an amazing’ and very
human tale about two sisters
adventurous Louise (who
wanted to see the world while
she could) and cautious
Miriam (who always had a
reason for not going “just
now").
28-page condensation from
"Nineteen Eighty-Four." Here
is a book to haunt you in
your sleep. A chilling account
of what everyday life might
hold in 1984 (telescreens spy
on you at home . . . the gov-
ernment bombs its own people
to keep them war-minded) —
a grim reminder of the final
goal of totalitarianism.
Should your wife be fired?
Most housewives could do
their work better with a third
less effort—says this indus-
trial efficiency expert. He
gives examples of how women
can save time and energy
(making beds, coffee, baking,
doing dishes, etc.) 1. . . gives
4 steps to win a woman a
couple of free hours a day.
How to lick class struggle.
When aji agitator tells 2000
workers “demand 2/- an hour
more," why expect them to
figure It will cost the com-
pany roughly £400,000 more
a year . . • more than the
Arm’s making? A labor leader
tells how and why manage-
ment must educate workers
In business economics.
Prison without a wall, it holds
criminals from petty thieves
to murderers —yet It has no
wall, no bars, no guns, and
few rules. Story of Federal
Correctional Institute In Sea-
goville, Texas . . . where
criminals are known by
name, not number—are puni-
shed and rehabilitated by
psychology, not violence.
in this issue—more than
30 articles of lasting
interest , selected from
leading magazines and
current books , and con-
densed to save your time.
Read and enjoy October
Readers Digest
ONE SHILLING
Ail Newsagents and Bookstalls
been so serene for over a cen-
tury that the State Department
has been inclined to underwrite
most Chinese Nationalist preten-
sions and to regard Hong Kong
in particular as an unpleasant
example of ‘British Imperialism.’
But a new wind blows in Wash-
ington, and the amazingly frank
report on United States relations
with China, recently released by
Mr. Dean Acheson, gives ample
evidence of that fact. It is also
worth noticing that the Ameri-
cans have transferred their Em-
bassy personnel from Canton to
Hong Kong. That in itself con-
stitutes a species of recognition
that would have been unthink-
able even a year ago.”
On these grounds the London
publication concludes that no
one need “write off Hong
Kong.”
The Jap Dilemma.
General MacArthur’s order
permitting, not to say encourag-
ing, “fraternisation” of occupa-
tion forces and Japs will cer-
tainly not lessen the Mac-
Arthurian legend, which a Tokyo
correspondent of N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” has thus assessed:
“MacArthur’s peculiar per-
sonality has been the occupa-
tion’s greatest intangible asset.
For it has undoubtedly held a
special magic for the Japanese.
The country people call him
‘Tenno Mak,’ in respectful refer-
ence to one of their best-loved
pre-Meiji rulers, and no Japan-
ese, however privately critical of
the occupation, will criticise
MacArthur.”
Another thing, however, which
the “fraternisation” move will
not lessen is what N. Y. “Journal
of Commerce” has described as
“the political headache of a lot
of people” looking back on Jap
invasion and now noting U.S.
policy in Japan (including the
calling-off of reparations):
“Countries remembering
Japanese invasion want proof
that steps toward rebuilding
Japan are not just what they all
suspect: that America is willing
to see Japan become a potential
menace again if that will help
stop Russia and Communism.
“The United States is com-
mitted against letting Japan
menace anyone again, of course.
This makes no difference to the
Eastern mind. Oriental coun-
tries are more impressed by the
way the Old Guard in Japan
manages to stall, evade and
sabotage many of the occupa-
tion’s efforts to make Japan a
political and economic demo-
cracy. It will take more than
promises to convince them.
“America seems preoccupied
with the cold war in To
anyone who has personal know-
ledge of the dynamic changes
taking place in Asia, this pre-
occupation with Europe seems
dubious, if not dangerous.
“American policy in this re-
spect is founded, apparently, on
the idea that, with the means at
Rochester (U.S.A.) "Democrat and Chronicle."
THE ONE-MAN PYRAMID .
hand, more can be accomplished
in Europe than in Asia. Europe
has the capacity to absorb the
kind. of aid America is best
qualified to give—technical aid.
Asia will come later.”
Almost a year ago N. Y.
“Times’s” military writer, Han-
son W. Baldwin, dealt most
frankly with the whole problem
of U.S. policy trends m Japan,
of the use of Japanese man-
nower Some Jananese leaders
-and a food many of our own
—already have quietly broached
the subject of Umited Japanese
rearmament, despite the fact
that the new post-war Japanese
Constitution‘renounces for ever’
armed forces for Japan. Some
concessions to Japan’s coast-
guard and the arming of a few
police with revolvers have been
permitted, but the establishment
of a Japanese army is still
merely in the discussion stage.”
The writer quoted most
observers as already agreeing
that long ago that “the tenets
of the Japanese Constitu-
tion which would keep Japan
an unarmed State in the
midst of an armed world
are distinctly unrealistic and will
have to be modified. On the
other hand, many agree that the
rearmament of Japan, unless
very carefully supervised and
strictly curtailed, might be a
menace to the peace of the
world.
“In other words, the United
States faces in Japan the same
problem that it faces in Ger-
many: to make Japan a self-
sustaining member of the family
of nations again, not subject to
the erosion of Communism ; to
make her strong but never too
strong.”
Near-North Problem.
While mainly intent on ex-
plaining and supporting Dutch
policy in Indonesia, former
Lieut.-Governor-General of the
Netherlands East Indies H. J.
van Mook includes much of par-
ticular Australian interest in an
American “Foreign Affairs”
article on that near-north of
ours.
Insisting that the whole belt
of comparatively small countries
—small by Asiatic standards —
stretching around the south-east
corner of Asia from Ceylon to the
Philippines must be considered
as a whole “if we wish to deter-
mine its significance and shape
our policies wisely,” the writer
adds:
“Western influence has made
these countries the most pros-
perous and the best organised of
Asia.._. .With not many more
than 150,000,000 inhabitants,
they exported, before the war,
nearly twice as much as India
and China together, with a
population of nearly 900,000,000.
When deprived of the rice of
Burma, Siam and Indo-China
untold numbers in Asia go
hungry; without the rubber and
tin of Malaya and Indonesia
vast American and European
industries suffer ; without the
vegetable fats from Indonesia
a nd the Philippines and the tea
from Indonesia and Ceylon the
rations of Europe and England
rema j n insufficient. And apart
SJS te teak° b h C °’ pepf 7 ‘“d
f, hon f- < eak ’ hem f’. slsal and
kapok these countnes can > lf
• *° get v’v £ U ’
c ’ lP n ’ nlc ce ’ bauxite, timber
and , flbres . ““““F £or . thelr
own development,
“I 1 18 eas Y t 0 understand why
Japan considered the conquest
of these countries the essential
, condition for her fantastic ambi-
tions toward world power. And
if Japanese aggression proved
anything, it proved that without
a sound and efficient organisa-
tion of their new National Gov-
ernments, these potentially rich
and alluring domains will not
be able to defend themselves
against future conquerors,
whether they try to subject them
b y force of arms or by political
and economic infiltration and
enslavement
dangers f situation
,f . .
1 The newly-
constituted National Govern-
men^s South-east Asia, or
those to-be-constituted, must in-
evitably lack experience, a defi-
ciency that will not be made
good by enthusiasm alone. It
would be hard enough for them
merely to carry on the work
d one by the colonial Administra-
tions which preceded them; but
they will have to act under much
graver handicaps than inexperi-
ence. Their barely acquired
authority will need confirmation.
With the exception of Ceylon
they are faced by the most
baffling internal disorders, caused
by the Japanese occupation and
rendered much more violent by
an indiscriminate dispersion of
arms. And if they cannot put
an end to lawlessness and restore
some measure of order and pros-
perity, their disintegrating
economy will offer a standing
invitation to those sinister forces
that ad , he seed of to(ali .
. , -
tar an Communism wherever the
ls tom U P corruption and
discontent.
“It is practically unthinkable
that present conditions will
allow them enough time to over-
come the troubles of these for-
mative years without outside
assistance; long before they
could hope to emerge from the
trough of poverty, dissension
and bankruptcy, stronger Powers
would have intervened and sub-
jected them to a new and worse
domination. So thq democratic
nations of the West are con-
fronted, on the one hand, with
the necessity of national liberty
for these countries, and, on the
other, with the responsibility of
offering organised aid and advice
for the restoration of law and
order, for economic rehabilita-
tion, and for defence against any
form of aggression.”
The former Indonesian Gov-
ernor-General then turns speci-
ally to his own country’s policy
aind intentions in these parts,
dating from the proclamation
of February 10, 1946, in which
the Netherlands Government
put on record its intention to
assist the Indonesians toward
nationhood and independence.
At the same time it expressed its
conviction that independence
and nationhood could be
achieved and maintained only
with continued Dutch assistance,
“The Dutch,” he contends,
“had valid reasons to reject a
policy of simple abandonment.
In the course of three centuries
the Netherlands built a modern
and prosperous community in
Indonesia out of a conglomera-
tion of small tribal units, divided
by incessant conflicts and rival-
ries. Before the war Indonesia’s
credit was more sound, its
Administration more free from
graft, the mass of its population
better dressed and fed and
housed, its highways and by-
ways were safer than was the
case in any other Asiatic coun-
try. The Dutch had invested a
considerable capital in Govern-
ment-owned buildings, railroads,
communications, forests, mines,
plantations, institutes of scientific
research and irrigation systems.
There was also large private in-
vestment in agriculture, mining,
industry, shipping, trade and
aviation. Of course, all this
yielded a fair though moderate
income to the Netherlands, but
it provided a much more im-
portant source of income for
Indonesia. It shared in the pro-
ducts and services, and there was
a well-developed and efficient
system of taxation,
“The Netherlands,” the writer
emphasises, “are fully prepared
to transfer this inheritance to the
Indonesians, but they want to
transfer it in workable condi-
tion and with some guarantees
for its maintenance and further
development. This policy is
obviously influenced, on the
Dutch side, by a certain pride in
past achievements, a recognition
of the Netherlands’ interest in
Indonesia, and a deep affection
for the country and its inhabit-
ants. But it has its ultimate
foundations in a relationship be-
tween the Indonesians and the
Dutch that has no parallel else-
where in Asia.
“T h e Indonesians’.... local
government is well-developed,
and the damage done to it by
occupation and unrest can be
repaired. But the structure of
Indonesia is still very vulner-
able, especially in its economic
and financial management and
in the composition and authority
of its newly-moulded Federal
Government.
“The Dutch can strengthen
these weaknesses without threat-
ening the young Indonesian
nation. Numerous Nether-
landers have identified them-
selves with the country; their
descendants, pure and mixed,
have made Indonesia their
homeland. It may be difficult
for an Anglo-Saxon to under-
stand a relationship between a
white and a colored people from
which racial feeling is so curi-
ously absent and which accepts
the children of mixed marriages
as the equals, legally and soci-
ally, of their parents. But the
fact is that even now, after years
of Japanese anti-Western pro-
paganda and of revolutionary
hysteria, there is no general
enmity between Indonesians and
Netherlanders. And the neces-
sity of continued co-operation
is widely recognised on both
sides.”
Admitting that “there is still
an extensive job of pacification
to be achieved,” the writer con-
cludes: “The pattern of a free
United States of Indonesia,
closely allied to the Netherlands,
is gradually emerging from the
tangle of violent designs and
ambitious purposes When
peace is made at last by those
who want to rebuild their coun-
try on the sure foundations of
justice and prosperity, the world
may yet come to understand
that the Dutch policy was not
impelled by a senseless Imperial-
ism, and that the force applied
was a necessary minimum to re-
store a decent nation to health
and understanding. We may
yet hope that after all these
trials the United States of Indo-
nesia will be preserved as a
bridgehead from which demo-
cratic liberty will expand
through all the seven nations of
South-east Asia.”


■the first ignition
battery was an
EXIDE.
r
$
—the first lighting
battery was an
EXIDE.
I
—the first starting,
lighting and ignition
battery was an EXIDE.
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD*, 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
MAKE
First choice for your car
• t •
xAa.a
PERSONAL ITEMS
Adding the presidency of the Royal
Australian Chemical Institute to his al-
ready full bag, knight Herbert Gepp, at
72, retains the bright mind and ability
to express it well which landed him the
managership of a chemical works at 24.
Born in South Australia and trained to
metallurgy, he, in 1915, when war de-
prived Broken Hill of one of its largest
customers, went as commercial ambas-
sador to America, and in 15 months sold
£1 million-worth of products. His other
share of that war was the supervision of
munition supplies in Canada and the U.S.
for the A.I.F. With peace, he got his
big chance at Broken Hill, and showed
up so well that he was given charge of
the then new electrolytic zinc venture in
Tasmania. He had done fine organising
work there when Priminister Bruce, in
1926, lured him to the chairmanship of
the new Development and Migration
Commission, doing, along with industrial
advisory work for the Government,
Calwell’s present job. In World War II
S’Herbert was for three years chairman of
the Central Cargo Control Committee,
deciding what went where and when.
Subject of this sketch, made at Mel-
bourne Royal Show, is W. A. Watts, in-
troducer of the Finnemore “travelling
builder.” English-b or n, he served
throughout World War 11, was taken
prisoner at Tobruk, and after the war
made a tour of South Africa, Rhodesia
and East Africa seeking opportunity.
It turned up in the shape of a Dutch
W.A. WATTS, streamline builder.
missionary and farmer who had invented
a travelling builder to carry out his own
farm requirements and to help the natives
build their circular dwellings. A simple-
looking gadget, it makes walls in one
continuous operation, with one handling
of the material and with the labor of
only two men; and the material can be
concrete or (what is more important to
Australian farmers or other builders in
the present materials shortage) pise, or
rammed earth. It is equally adapted
to the building of houses, garages,
reservoirs, dams, milk-sheds and dairies
with drinking-troughs, kerbs, piggeries,
woolsheds and irrigation channels ; and
the circular fellow is admirably designed
to run up silos. The Kenya Government
has bought 7000 and the machine is go-
ing into Australian manufacture.
Apple Islander to challenge Repatria-
tion Minister Barnard for the Bass seat,
Liberal-man Bruce Kekwick was resi-
dent inspector for the Commercial Union
Group of insurance companies before
breaking off to campaign through Tassie
against the threatened Bank-Grab. He
joined the R.A.N. in 1940 as an ordi-
nary seaman and came ashore, six years
later, a lieutenant. He’s 39, and keen —
when the Budget was presented he flew
in a Moth to the farthest points in the
electorate to find what electors thought
of it.
Forty-eight-year-old Albert Monk, first
paid president of the A.C.T.U., was the
youngest Trades Hall Council secretary
in Australia before, in 1934, he won the
same post (then unpaid) which he again
holds’. He first went to Melbourne Trades
Hall as a clerk in the Carters and Drivers’
Union, and within two years was secre-
tary of the federated unions. Shifting to
the T.H.C., he became assistant-secretary
in 1929, and secretary in 1934, In the de-
pression years he did a lot to prevent
Communists taking charge of Mel-
bourne’s unemployed, and for those acti-
vities was twice attacked and sundry times
had his life threatened. Born in Essex,
he reached Melbourne when he was 10.
“Macnell”; Captain D. Hammersley
Johnston, M.V.0., 0.8. E., R.N., senior
officer of the Enzed Squadron visiting
Australia, joined up at the end of the
Kaiser’s war, and was a snotty in one of
the R.N.’s finest gunnery ships, battler
Warspite. Just before the next war John-
ston, now commander, had command of
a ship which absorbed in her time more
projectiles than the German High Seas
Fleet—target-ship Centurion, against
whom battleships and cruisers hurled
their practice shell. She would return
to base, pick out the splinters, and sail
for more. With war, Johnston com-
manded the deep-sea minelayer Adven-
ture, then transhipped to cruiser Man-
chester as executive officer. He was in
her in that hectic Malta convoy of
August, 1942, when carrier Eagle was
sunk, Indomitable torpedoed, two U-boats
rammed by British destroyers, and cruiser
Cairo and destroyer Foresight also tor-
pedoed. Manchester caught hers off
Cape Bon, when an E-boat speared out
of the night and split her open with
torpedoes. After internment in Algeria
Johnston commanded the Coastal Forces
base in Scotland before returning to the
Mediterranean. He comes here in com-
mand of Maoriland’s six-incher, Bellona.
The elevation of 36-year-old Dr. J. P.
Kavanagh to be Bishop -of Dunedin
makes the third native-born Maoriland
R.C. bishop out of six. Dr. Kavanagh
succeeds Bishop O’Neill, who, appointed
coadjutor to Bishop Whyte in 1943, has
resigned through ill-health. Bishop Whyte
has himself been laid aside for years in
hospital. It is some 60 years since, a
youngster from Kilkenny, Whyte landed
in Sydney, to become a professor at
Manly College (N.S.W.) and later do in-
spectoral duties in the State’s R.C.
schools. He crossed the Tasman in 1918
to the bishopric of Dunedin. Kavanagh,
his new coadjutor, is one of a family of
10, and his work for several years has
been the care of Polish refugee children
adopted by M.L. Ordained priest in
1936, after graduating Doctor of Canon
Law at the Pontifical Lateran University
in Rome, he filled a curacy at Lower
Hutt, Wellington, for four years.
The Ernest Scott Prize for 1949, com-
memorative of the late Professor Scott,
one-time occupant of the Chair of History
at Melbourne ’Varsity, goes to Maori-
lander Dr. A. H. McLintock for his
History of Otago, published as a memorial
of the province’s centennial last year.
Made every three years for the most
original research into Maoriland or Aus-
tralian history over a five-year period,
the award has £3OO attached, and Dr. Mc-
Lintock is the first Enzedder to win it.
“Conda”: Keith Noel Bradfield (son
of Bradfield of the Bridge), elected a
vice-president of the International Civil
Aviation Organisation in Montreal, has
come a long way since, en route to Oxford
in 1935 on a Rhodes Scholarship, he gave
what was probably his first lecture —to a
draft of ordinary seamen bound in the
same ship for cruiser Australia in Malta.
I forget the subject—probably bridge-
engineering—but remember the delivery
which kept 30 frisky youngsters volun-
tarily below decks listening to him for
an hour. Bradfield left Oxford a Doctor
of Philosophy, got his Bachelorship of
Engineering back in Sydney, and special-
ised in airport engineering, rising to be
chief airport engineer of the Civil Avia-
tion Department.
Jim Hyland, one-time of Adelaide, who
called on Melbourne recently in a U.S.
Army transport bringing 900 new Aussies,
didn’t do badly for a civilian in World
War 11. He began it by signing on a
Norwegian tanker in 1940 and taking a
cargo of high-octane spirit to A.I.F.
troops in Libya. He moved to the sui-
cide run to Archangel and Murmansk,
where the spray froze solid, then joined
the U.S. Army Transport service. Here
he got mate and master tickets, was tor-
pedoed three times, and was adrift in a
lifeboat for 17 days off Recife ; he was
rescued in time to be in at the Sicilian
and Italian invasions, and later ferried
ammo across to the Normandy bridge-
heads. He goes back to the U.S. to em-
brace American citizenship and start an
export-and-import business with Aus-
tralia.
Leslie Perrot, Clive Osborne and Noel
O’Connor, the trio who won first prize
of £6700 in Melbourne. City Council’s
Empire-wide architectural competition
for the new Western Market building, are
all Victorians and old colleagues. .Perrot,
past-president of the Royal Victorian
Institute of Architects, is responsible for
some of the city’s biggest buildings and
three of its leading hostelries; Osborne
is designing architect for the Department
of Works and Housing; and O’Connor
returned recently from the U.S. chockful
of the latest in modern office-building
notions. The Western Market building
will cost nearly £2 million, will accommo-
date 4000 people and have garage space
for 500 cars. Buried underneath its half-
acre of steel and glass and concrete will
lie the romantic associations of Paddy’s
Market.
When The Bulletin first sighted him,
Robert Morley appeared to be trying to
sniff the daffodils on one of the sun-
drenched flower-stalls in Sydney’s Martin-
place, while two snowy-headed children,
one at each hand, were endeavoring to
pull him apart. Despite that he managed,
before the children defeated both the
daffodils and The Bulletin, to confirm
that he was Robert Morley, that he had
been intended for a diplomatic career but
had changed to the stage “because I was
too stupid to pass their wretched exams.”
That would be very much doubted by
anyone who has seen the intelligence of
Morley’s acting and sharp, skilful
dialogue in the plays of his own writing.
He made his first stage appearance at 21,
as a pirate in “Treasure Island” in 1929,
and there has generally been a touch of
the pirate, of magnificent buccaneering,
about his best roles —the wonderful
despot Undershaft, of the munitions firm
of Undershaft and Lazarus in “Major
Barbara,” Sheridan Whiteside in “The
Man Who Came to Dinner” and Arnold
Holt, the financial giant, in “Edward My
PROFILE by MORLEY.
Son,” the current show at Sydney Royal.
Henry Higgins, in “Pygmalion,” and
Oscar Wilde are two other stage per-
formances he can fairly hang on the wall,
along with his superb portrayal of
Louis XVI in the film “Marie Antoinette.”
At 41 he is well up among the best
actors of the English stage.
Treated here by Lambart with little
mercy, Albert Beech, superintendent of
Brisbane’s Ambulance Brigade, which
now runs 36 cars. Beech joined it as a
stretcher-bearer in the horse-and-sulky
era, when ambulance men might be called
to an accident miles from the city, towing
their litter astern. After treating the
patient, they walked the litter back to
base. Now 57, and overgrowing 6ft.,
ALBERT BEECH,
Queensland ambulance-man.
Beech left for the Kaiser’s War the year
it started, served in the Gallipoli cam-
paign with the Third Field Ambulance
and returned to his old job. Now he
administers mercy over an area widely-
bounded by Maroochydore, Sandgate,
Redcliffe and Caboolture.
Run his last traverse in Adelaide, at
78, Oliver Linley Adams, whose survey-
ing and dam-building on the rugged west
coast of his native Tassie won him a
place, in the ’twenties, in the international
team of civil engineers who pushed a
railway across Spain from Biscay to the
Mediterranean to tap the Rio Tinto
coppermines. Preferring metre to rod,
pole or perch, and with a strong taste for
Spanish as a language, Adams later went
to Argentina, where for nearly 25 years
he surveyed from the Cordilleras to the
Rio Negro country. Throughout his S.
American days he kept up two good
habits formed in Tasmania —watching
every bird that came his way and writing
an occasional par. about them for The
Bulletin.
“Matelot”: There was some mix-up of
tugs in that par. on Captain Tommy
Anderson, who passed on recently in Bris-
bane (B. 21/9/’49). Tug Coringa (in
which Tommy was towing-master) put
out with Forceful (Captain Dixon,
towing-master Captain Mitchell) to pick
up the storm-crippled Arafura, but
failure of Coringa’s steering-gear com-
pelled her to seek shelter. So Forceful
did the heavy work alone, and made
Moreton Bay with her tow hooked on to
her last rope —she’d parted all the others.
Later both tugs, with lost gear and
damage made good, hauled the totally-
disabled steamer to Sydney.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 48, Frank V. McGuinness, the
editor who steered Ezra Norton’s “Daily
Mirror” on its speedy way to a record Sydney
evening-paper circulation.
At 81, in Melbourne, J. Bunce, who was
still spry enough at 79 to win the pairs
championship at bowls; he had also carried it
off two years earlier, and was the singles
champion in 1913.
In Perth, at 66, after 42 years of Anglican
Church work, Canon William Patrick, who,
ordained at Bunbury the year he landed from
Newcastle-on-Tyne, practised Christianity from
Claremont to Broome and Marble Bar. He
was rector of St. Hilda’s, North Perth, when
ill-health forced his retirement this year.
At Buderim Mountain (Q.), at 86, A. L.
Hely, whose grandfather came from Northern
Ireland as superintendent-general of convicts
and police in 1816. His father, H. Hely,
explored on two trips with Leichhardt, and,
when Leichhardt was lost, -made a third try
to find him.
At Brook, Kent (Eng.), Major Mark Kirby,
D. 5.0., Queen’s Medal with six clasps, and
well-known in Melbourne business circles, where
he was a member of a legal firm before sailing
to join the Royal Artillery in England and
serve in the S. African war. He settled in Kent
and left his mark in local-government there.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Bright sunshine and swiftly-changing
waves of color as thousands of summer
frocks and hats hurried about questing
winners marked the opening day of the
spring meeting at Randwick. Last Satur-
day hats were the crowning glory. They
were mostly large. They were of fine
straws, of wicker straws, of grosgrain,
of linen, and they definitely fitted in with
the Australian landscape. Actor Robert
Morley seemed to be the only lion in
the stands. English actress Sophie
Stewart was also seen in passing.
Mrs. Alexis Albert’s frock was of
taffeta in tiny black and caramel-brown
shades; her hat was large and black and
of coarse straw. Very summer-like was
Mrs. Blake Pelley in her organza frock
printed in blues and raauves ; the .brim
of her wide Leghorn hat was almost
covered in black lace. There was nothing
smarter than Mrs. Frank Rogers’s
summer-weight blue suit and small cloche
hat. Lady Morshead’s navy suit was crisp
with touches of white. Mrs. Gordon
Smith’s large white hat was worn with a
deep-blue ensemble. Jade-blue Locking
was contrasted by Mrs. Frank Genge with
a beige-pink cloche ; from it a faintly-pink
plume curved over her right ear. Pamela
Wilkinson used red-and-white-checked
taffeta in effective trimming of her white
straw hat; her gloves were of the same
bright checks, her suit was black. All in
pastel-blues was Mrs. O. James. The
wide brim of her hat was lined with black
lace,
Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere’s navy suit wore
a large bow of taffeta under a stiffened
basque. The coat had one large and one
small rever. Her tiny cloche hat was a
De Valois, trimmed with black plums
and two lemons. Mrs. W. Parsons’s suit
was of red-and-green shot tie-silk. Black
suit contrasted with a gold straw cloche
on Mrs. W. F. Owen. Betty Stormon’s
wide black hat with its black-and-green-
striped taffeta trimming was admired.
Smart racegoers were Mrs. Lionel Mc-
Fadyen, Mrs. Ernest Watt, Mrs. Lennox
Bode, whose white pique hat lined with
navy was among the pleasing. Mrs. Clive
Hall’s black suit was one of the slimmest
at Randwick; the brim of her large
natural straw hat was weighted down at
the right side with walnut shells and
sequins. Mrs. Platt-Hepworth, Mrs.
Keith Martin, Pamela Bentley and Mrs.
lan Dodd helped in the day’s glitter.
Last Friday night by half-past nine
the Naughty ’Nineties’ Ball (to aid the
Spastic Centre) in the A.C.I. building in
William-street was in full cry. President
of the ball committee, Mrs. W. J. Smith,
accompanied by her husband, made spec-
tacular progress down William-street in
a landau, vintage 1870. When Mrs. Smith,
as “Diamond Lil,” stepped across the
pavement, hundreds of onlookers saw a
flash of red satins, the skirt ending in a
frou-frou of frills. The really lovely frock
was made off-the-shoulders. And with it
was worn a hat smothered in ostrich
plumes shading from pink to ruby.
Half-way down the stairs to the ball-
room girls in pink puff-sleeved Blouses and
black taffeta skirts buzzed about selling
moustaches to the gentlemen who had
arrived minus this male embellishment of
the “ ’Nineties.” Striped flannel coats,
white flannel trousers, boaters were popu-
lar male attire. The ladies were wonderful
in almost every variety of Victorian and
Edwardian frock. Cartoonist Jimmy
Bancks arrived looking like the tennis
champ of the vicarage parties. Mrs.
Jimmy was a “barmaid” in one of the
voluminous red-and-white-check aprons.
The white pillars from dance-floor to
the balcony of the mezzanine were gar-
landed with roses. They were topped by
pictures of gentlemen and ladies riding
tandem, by patriotic “God Save the
Queen! ” scrolls, by cherubs blowing
trumpets. The Bulletin’s Ted Scorfield
was there, and Mrs. Scorfield. Mrs.
Gordon Champion’s black laces and pink
nets were admired. With the Frank
Clunes arrived Mrs. Neptune Blood,
dressed in a frock of heavy cream lace
dashed with pink that had once belonged
to Queen Emma of Samoa. The
Ronnie Parrs were a neat-looking
couple of the period. Mrs. Marcel
Dekyvere’s strapless white evening frock
was completely modern.. Doug Levy, in
grey-checked suit, side-burns and a
boater, was a cheerful sight. So were the
two gents who sat all night with their
hats on ceremoniously lifting them to
every passing acquaintance.
If they had received one-half the birds
they served on platters to their guests last
Saturday night, the Kiwis would not have
been celebrating their 1500th performance
in Australia. This alert, topical and
sometimes brilliant group of Maoriland
ex-servicemen gave a party backstage
after Saturday night’s show at the Empire
extremely long trestle-table, loaded
Wlth ham lobster and what-al,
stret ched almost the length of the back
tbe sta B e - Drinks, even lovely amber
beer > w f e f rved from eleven till about
° ne Sunda Y mornmg. Producer Terry
Vaughan made welcome speech. He and
Wlfeand Ter o * aunt who 18 a u siste j r
° f The Bulletin s O. N. Gillespie busied
themselves about entertaining. So did
the J ads of the cast - Robert Morley and
So P hle Stewart came on from the Royal.
At the back of the supper-table was a
mur al G f photographs of scenes in the
Middle Fast
. T , c , . c , .
, T h. ? Letter presents Soph.e Stewart,
' vh ° 18 f«hralhng as Evelyn Holt the
tender, tormented and terrified wife of
Arnold Holt (Robert Morley) of “Edward
My Son.” This satin-smooth production
now at the Theatre Royal has captured
Sydney’s imagination.
Seville in Spain is an enchanting
place. Its cathedral is the largest
in Spain—it is a work so magni-
ficent that it is breath-taking. To Seville
for Holy Week flock pilgrims and
travellers from all over the world. It is
also the centre of the bull-fight at its
most spectacular. Sydney travellers, the
Charles Lloyd Joneses, just back from
months of journeying, were in Seville for
Holy Week. They witnessed the pro-
cession of Easter Sunday that starts
through the streets before daybreak and
ends at High Mass in the Cathedral. On
a bedecked and bejewelled platform,
which it takes twenty men to carry, the
famed statue of the Madonna of Seville
makes journey through the tapestry-hung
and garlanded city. This is the Madonna
to whom great ladies, kings and poten-
tates of many lands have sent gifts of
jewels, so that her robes glitter in the
open air with diamonds and rubies and
emeralds.
Next in interest came the bull-fight at
the great circus capable of holding about
15,000. Around the ring are tiered boxes,
and over the multitude an almost avid
silence falls as the great entrances to
the arena open to admit picadors, ban-
derilleros, espadas, bulls and so on. Mr.
and Mrs. Charles Lloyd Jones were later
part of a vast theatre audience who saw
Rosanna and Antonio —the two most
famed Spanish dancers of today..
This certainly is Race Week. Cocktails
at the Macquarie Club for members and
friends followed Saturday’s race-meeting.
Monday’s buttons-and-braid affair was
the late-afternoon party at H.M.A.S.
Rushcutter for the senior officers and
officers of the Enzed Squadron, which
arrived opportunely on Monday. Rear-
Admiral and Mrs. Moore received the
guests. The new Flag-Officer command-
ing the R.A.N., Rear-Admiral Eccles, and
Mrs. Eccles, the Premier and Mrs.
McGirr, and Sydney’s Lord Mayor and
Mrs. O’Dea were among the guests. And
if you weren’t invited to -this Navy
cheerio, don’t be downhearted. There are
1200 Enzed sailors at loose in this city
at the present time. They came on the
cruiser Bellona and frigates bearing soft
Maori names, and all are under the com-
mand of Captain D. Hammersley
Johnston, R.N. Last night’s big flutter
was the Black and White Ball. Today,
after Randwick, comes the cocktail-hour
at the Australian Club,
In spite of the rush of Eisteddfod adju-
dications Mrs. Harry Evans (Beatrice
Tange) was in good time for last week's
symphony concert, starring Witold
Malcuzynski at the piano in the Chopin
Concerto No. 2 in F Minor. The Claude
Plowman lady, her long black faille frock
with its short jacket of faint primrose, and
Mr. and Mrs. Hope Gibson were other
prompt arrivals. Mrs. Otto Klemperer,
wife of the conductor, and Mrs.
Malcuzynski, the pianist’s wife, were in
the audience. The John Broinowskis,
Professor and Mrs. Fawsitt, General/and
Mrs. Herring, the Leo Listers and Mrs.
Keith Morris were other enthusiasts.
From Melbourne
Lovely and dainty Rina Malatrasi was
in the title role in “Manon,” and her
singing and acting won enthusiastic
acclamation from the opera-lovers who
packed His Majesty’s. Among these were
Mrs. A. Fowler, whose rose-pink draped
gown had a deep collar of matching
sequins ; Mrs. J. Bowen Pain, her black
gown trimmed with clusters of black
sequins; Mrs. T. Allan McKay, in a
beaded powder-blue crepe gown and
white Arctic foxes; Madame Mario
Vigano, her gown of black satin high-
lighted with a floral design in bronze-
green ; Mrs. Harold Armstrong, turquoise-
blue crepe her gown ; Mrs. V. Terry, in
black Chantilly laces ; Mrs. Jean Davies,
in lavender-blue taffetas; and Hilda
Hudson, who combined a high-necked
white chiffon blouse and long black skirt.
Dancers in the four ballets presented at
the Princess were literally on their toes,
for they appeared before a distinguished
audience which included Lieut.-Governor
Sir Edmund Herring and his lady, whose
gown was of black Chantilly lace, and the
Premier and Mrs. Hollway, she in pale-
blue crepes sparkling with embroidery.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s white crepe gown
was heavily encrusted with gold em-
broidery. Mrs, D. D. O’Conner, who
with her husband has just returned from
England, covered her hyacinth-blue gown
with a brown ermine coat. Mrs. Olive
Thring added diamond ornaments to her
gown of powder-blue. Reta Findlay’s
gown of pale-grey, self-patterned moire
was cut on bouffant lines and had a
strapless bodice. Ruth Tyrwhitt-Drake
trailed midnight-blue tulle draperies ; her
matching stole was sprinkled with silver
sequins. Mrs. T. J. Dowd was in dove-
grey satins, whilst her daughter-in-law,
Mrs. Bernard Dowd, wore a black velvet
picture frock trimmed with white ermine
tails. Mrs. Maurice Dowd added an
azure-blue satin hip-length jacket to her
frothy dress of pale-blue tulle. Under a
cape of white Arctic fox Mrs. Alan Tate
wore an apricot tulle, silk-embroidered
frock. Mrs. Alwyn Spicer’s bouffant
gown was of cyclamen shot taffeta.
The artistic arrangement of the flowers
in the foyer of the Princess Theatre for
the Vera Scantlebury Brown Memorial
Ballet preview was the work of Mrs.
Alwyn Spicer. The mother of two
children, Mrs. Spicer still finds time to
attend the English-Speaking Union meet-
ings with her husband. Gardening is her
weekend hobby, and ballet and music her
chief preoccupations.
Excellent staff work on the part of the
Air Force Women’s Association Ball
committee was rewarded by over £3OO
clear profit—cheques still to come in will
probably bring the total to over £4OO.
This will go to the Memorial Scholarship
Fund for the children of deceased Air
Force personnel. As a means of saying
“thank you” to the committee and the
Press for assistance for the ball, Mrs.
E. C. Wackett was hostess at a buffet
luncheon-party at Meinzies’. Her floral-
silk frock was worn under a wine-toned
lightweight wool coat, and her grey beret
had a lining of wine-toned silk. President
of the ball committee, Mrs. F. Bladin,
added a matching felt hat to her grey
tailored suit. The hon. secretary, Mrs.
John Black, wore an ink-blue suit.
Pleated black-and-white checks and grey
in hat made a smart alliance for the hon.
treasurer, Mrs. W. Cameron. Mrs. Val
Hancock’s grey tailored frock was worn
with a hat trimmed with pink taffeta
bows. Mrs. W. N. Gibson plumped for
green corduroy velvet. Mrs. F. Scherger
wore a cerise blouse with her black suit.
Principals taking part in the coming
ballet and opera season at the Princess
were guests at a late-afternoon party held
at the National Theatre, president of
which is knight Robert Knox, whose lady
was wrapped in a black Persian-lamb
‘ coat. Gertrude Johnson, director of the
National Theatre, draped a lace mantilla
over her black hat, which she wore with
a black crepe frock. The clover-pink of
Dorothy Fox’s tweed suit was repeated in
her hat. Ballerina Margaret Scott and
Ann Church, who has branched out as a
designer of ballet costumes, wore scarlet
ensembles. Joyce Graeme, director of
the ballet season, was with Joanne
Priest, who is choreographer of one of
the ballets to be presented during the
season. Centre of attraction at the party
was Shivram, the Indian daincer who
will have one of the principal roles in the
ballet “Egypt.” Artist Esther Patterson
was with husband George Gill.
For her third recital Elisabeth
Schwarzkopf wore a stunning Christian
Dior gown of black moire, opened in
front to reveal a blue-loined tulle under-
skirt. The dropped shoulder-line was
emphasised with a cluster of pastel roses,
and the floating side-panels of the
bouffant skirt were lined with pastel-blue
moire. Her associate artist, Margaret
Schofield, wore an American Beauty satin
gown with decollete bodice and tiny shoe-
string shoulder-straps. With Bonnie Mc-
Callum, whose velvet frock was donkey-
grey, was Mrs. Cliff Rosefield. Among
other lovers of the Viennese soprano’s
artistic singing were Mesdames Herbert
Pacini and Russell Coldham, singer Sylvia
McPherson, whose latest confection,
picked up on a recent visit to Paris, was
a tiny black cap heavily embroidered in
gold and matched by a fascinating bag,
Joyce Macartney, Dr. Ella McKnight and
Doris Jones.
There’s never a dull moment at one of
Mrs. Garnet Carroll’s parties. She invites
interesting guests and then mixes them
impartially with the greatest success. Her
latest was given as a curtain-raiser to the
ballet preview for the Vera Scantlebury
Brown Memorial Fund, of which Mrs.
Garnet heads the entertainments com-
mittee. Greatly admired were the
floral decorations of the Carroll South
Yarra residence. Purple iris mixed with
lilac, daffodils and tulips were used in the
hall and reception-rooms, while in the
dining-room tiny bowls of apple-blossom
were garlanded with apple-green ribbon.
The hostess’s cocktail ensemble comprised
a black velvet bodice and a black-and-
white-striped taffeta skirt. . A pale-blue
cloche hat embroidered with deeper blue
and silver sequins topped the Snow lady’s
black frock. Lady Blarney’s slate-grey
velvet jacket-suit was worn with match-
ing hat and scarlet velvet gloves. Mrs.
John O’Brien teamed a wide-brimmed
brown hat carrying lime-green roses with
her beech-brown jacket-suit. Mrs. Byron
Moore had black ospreys in her pastel-
pink velvet hat. Winner of this year’s
Memorial scholarship, Elizabeth Stubbs,
was in a navy ensemble.
To defray the expenses of the Navy
Week Ball a card-party and hat parade
were arranged by Mesdames S. Aarons,
George Haines and Eric Cottrell. The
management of Chevron gave the use of
the lounge and dining-room, and the
mannequins who showed the hats, which
came from Joan Cain’s salon, were Mrs.
Norman Spry, Carol Griffiths and Toni
Kirkpatrick. President of the ball, Mrs.
H. A. Showers, was present with Com-
modore Dalmeyer and his wife. Com-
mittee - members included Mesdames
J. M. Armstrong and Wallace Mitchell.
Mrs. Alan Bernaldo, whose husband will
hold an exhibition of pictures late in
November, was among the card-players. '
Her clover-pink jacket was worn over a
gunmetal-grey frock, and her hat was of
soft-pink felt. She was with Mrs. W.
Whittle, whose brown hat had attractive
quills as a finish and matched her brown
suit. Mrs. M. Nathan’s black tailored
coat was contrasted with a primrose-
yellow hat trimmed with Parma violets.
Touches of white pique were on the grey
frock worn by Mrs. A. Aitken.
A wedding of inter-State interest
solemnised at St. Matthew’s, Marryatville
(S.A.), was that of Pearl, only child of
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Tibbett, of Roth-
bury, St. Georges, and Leonard, third
son of Mr. J. Aitken, Forestville (S.A.)
and the late Mrs. Aitken. The bride's
gown of pearl-tinted French embroidered
marquisette had a full skirt flowing into
a long train, and her tulle veil was held
in place with a coronet of creamy-tinted
camellias, matching the bouquet she
carried. Ruth Erreey was the only brides-
maid ; her gown of pale-pink organdie
was mounted on matching taffeta.
Pink and blue flowers formed both
headdress and posy. Reception was
held at the Hotel Richmond. Mrs.
Tibbett, wearing a smart lightweight
navy wool jacket-suit patterned in self-
toned silk and a navy hat trimmed with
pink flowers to match her gloves, received
the 90 guests. The bride’s going-away
outfit comprised a cherry-red wool jacket-
suit, and grey hat with matching acces-
sories.


ẃ
The
Vatican
Guards
BOOK EARLY! Be sure
of speedy passage to
Rome by comfortable
Constellation, with
fine meals in the
air and unsurpassed
steward service.
Accommodation in
Rome arranged, if
desired.
Consult your travel agent, or
HE ArBOAC
QANTAS EMPIRE AIRWAYS in parallel with
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION
K3 °
‘Qantas means the World to You!”
ẅ
w
RAN.Y3.12Z89.
THE SERVICE MAN
Admiral Toyoda Goes
Free.
‘Ek Dum”: Admiral Soemu
Toyoda was the last top-rank
Japanese tried on “war-crime”
charges and one of the lucky
ones—he was acquitted. The
trial was before an American
Military Tribunal of which the
chairman was an Australian,
Brigadier John O’Brien, D. 5.0.,
normally chief of General Mac-
Arthur’s Scientific and Technical
Division.
In the trial of Admiral Toy-
oda, the Military Tribunal heard
121 witnesses and read about
650 affidavits, as well as records
totalling 8000 pages.
The trial was necessarily a
long one the transcripts
ran to 7,000,000 words in
English and Japanese and it
covered what the tribunal
itself described as “a most ex-
tensive scope of events,” which
“occurred on land, sea and in
the air over a vast area, their
locations from the Aleutians to
the eastern coasts of Australia,
from off the shores of California
to Madagascar.. . .with occa-
sional offshoots to high places
of authority in Washington and
Berlin.”
It was, moreover, an import-
ant trial from the point of view
that it set precedents in determin-
ing the doctrine of command re-
sponsibility at the highest levels.
Also, incidentally, it was
illuminating both as to the
mechanics of the Japanese war
and the tenuousness of the com-
munication lines which kept it
together and as to the ability of
an official of a country placed
in high command to resist un-
ethical conduct by its leaders
without placing himself in com-
plete jeopardy.
Soemu Toyoda was a 65-year-
old Japanese, C.-in-C. of the
Combined Japanese Fleets. He
had graduated from the Japan-
ese Naval Academy the year
after the Russo-Japanese war.
He had been instructor on the
Naval Staff, had commanded the
battleship Hyuga, had been
Chief of Staff to the combined
Japanese fleets and Director of
the Education Bureau of the
Navy long before the war..
One witness said that when
the Admiral, in the later stages
of his career, had become Com-
mander of the Combined Fleet,
he had been nationally regarded
as the potential savior of the
country, and he had been one of
the six members of the Supreme
Council for the Direction of the
War and Chief of the Naval
General Staff who “worked
staunchly for peace.”
Peace Moves in 1945
That he survived to take this
role was astonishing, and throws
a curious light on Japanese char-
acter and methods; for it
appeared, according to the judg-
ment of the tribunal which tried
him, that he had earlier “fought
so strongly against the arch-
plotter, Tojo, that the latter pre-
ferred to abandon or delay his
leadership and with it, presum-
ably, his plans for the domina-
tion of half the world rather
than have this man (Toyoda),
with his undoubted great talents,
as his associate in the Cabinet
that was to implement his
treachery.”
Toyoda became Commander-
in-Chief of the Combined Fleets
in May, 1944, at a time when
the main run of Japanese luck
was over. The offensive, especi-
ally at sea, had turned to the
defensive, but it is obvious (as
it seems to have been to the
tribunal) that during that period,
when for a Japanese Fleet to
venture to sea was to court an-
nihilation, he shirked no action,
showed dash and vigor of policy,
and carried out his duties firmly.
Yet behind the scenes, according
to thg evidence, he used
all his marked ability and
authority in the interests of
peace.
It is a striking commentary
on the school of thought which
believes that the Japanese were
seized with sudden panic and
capitulated only when the atom-
bomb fell on Hiroshima that,
four months before, the Supreme
Council for the Direction of the
War was already in favor of
negotiation and convinced in its
own minds that defeat was only
a matter of appreciable time.
Japanese Methods
At first it looked as if all that
was involved in the trial was a
consideration of direct command
responsibility. But as the in-
vestigation proceeded it “became
all too clear that here was some-
thing that had little parallel to
the systems of command familiar
to Occidentals and that the ap-
plication of such principles of
command to the case was im-
practicable.” A study had to
be made “of what are, to West-
ern mentalities, amazingly com-
plex and, at times, the almost
unbelievable principles of tech-
nical administration, authority
and direction” of the Japanese
war effort.
In the process of coming to its
decision the tribunal laid it
down that it considered the
essential elements of command
responsibility for atrocities of
any commander should, in the
simplest language, be that “if the
accused knew or should by the
exercise of ordinary diligence
have learned of the commission
by his subordinates, immediate
or otherwise, of atrocities proved


Public Notices.
ANY information as to the whereabouts
of ALEX RAE and ALMA RAE, his wife,
for many years resident at 86 Waters
Street, Enfield, please communicate with
OOWLEY & ALLEN, Conveyancers, 70-72
King Street, Sydney.
INFORMATION as to the present address
of HENRY ALFRED TAYLOR, Painter,
formerly of 14 Ritchie Street, Granville,
and lately of 118 Thomas Street, Parra-
matta, will be appreciated by COWLEY
& ALLEN, Conveyancers, 70-72 King
Street, Sydney.
I, SEVERIAN IGNATIVICH KRAINOFF,
of Russian nationality, born at Petropav-
lovsk, Russia, and resident 18 years in
Australia, now residing at 3 Albert Street,
Randwick, Sydney, N.S.W., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOAN ELIZABETH GRIFFIN late of
Woids Avenue Hurstville. —TAKE NOTICE
that ADRIAN REX GRIFFIN has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1210 of 1949 on
the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
13th December 1949 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
ALFRED J. MORGAN & SON, Solicitors,
129 Pitt Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
ŵ
85L2&.113.99
ẁ
ALL YOU WANT
TO KNOW ABOUT
CONVERSION
OF MATURING
COMMONWEALTH
SECURITIES
These are the issues which
have matured or are about to
mature: —
Matured 15th September: 2 h%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1945 —three issues.
The maturity date shown on
these Securities is 15th Sep-
tember, 1949-1950, but the
Treasurer has exercised his
option to redeem these Securi-
ties on 15th September, 1949,
and they became due for
conversion on that date).
Maturing 15th • October: 2%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1946—tw0 issues);
3i% Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935 —one issue).
Maturing 15th November: 35%
Bonds and Inscribed Stock
(issued in 1935 and 1936-*—two
issues).
WHAT TO DO
If you have lodged with your
bank for safe custody more than
£lO worth of any of the Securi-
ties listed above, you will be
sent a conversion application
form. If you do not receive
such a form, check the maturity
dates of your Securities in one
of the following ways:
1. If your Bonds are in your
possession: Look at them at once
and compare the rates and
maturity dates printed at the
top with those indicated in the
list above.
2. If you lodged your Bonds
with your bank for safe-keeping:
Most banks issue a re’ceipt or
acknowledgment for Bonds left
with them for safe custody. If
you hold any such receipts, com-
pare the maturity dates shown
with the list above.
3. If you cannot discover
maturity dates: Go to your
Bank to-day and ask whether
any of the Securities listed
above are held on your behalf.
HOW TO CONVERT
If you find that your Securities
are affected, ask your Bank.
Money Order Post Office or
Stockbroker for an application
form for conversion into the
Eighth Security Loan. Pill in
one form for each series of
Bonds or Stock to be converted
(new 2% Securities are for
£l,OOO and multiples only) and
hand it back. That’s all. You
will then possess Eighth Security
Loan Bonds or Inscribed Stock
of the same value as your
maturing Securities, and interest
on your Securities will continue.
CASH
INVESTMENT
TOO
Apart from those with maturing
Securities to convert, everyone
may buy Bonds (£lO, £5O, £lOO,
£5OO or £1,000), or Inscribed
Stock, through any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order
Post Office or Stockbroker.
Interest is payable each six
months at 3i% per annum for
fourteen years or at 2% per
annum for three years. (Invest-
ment in 2% Securities must
be for £l,OOO and multiples
thereof.)
Repayment in full at maturity
is guaranteed by the Common-
wealth. There’s no better place
for your savings. Invest at once.
beyond a shadow of a doubt, or
the existence of a routine which
would countenance such and, by
his failure to take action to
pxmish the perpetrators, per-
mitted the atrocities to continue,
he has failed in the performance
of his duty as a commander and
must be punished.” Even with
such a dragnet interpretation to
crawl out of. Admiral Toyoda
escaped.
The main charge against him
was that he violated the laws
and customs of war while hold-
ing the appointments of Com-
mander-in-Chief of the Yoko-
suka Naval District, the Com-
bined Fleet, the Combined Naval
Forces, the Naval Escort Com-
mand, as well as when Chief of
the Naval General Staff, between
May 21, 1943, and a period
shortly after the end of the war.
He was charged with “wilfully
and unlawfully disregarding and
failing to discharge his duties by
ordering, directing, inciting and
failing to prevent persons under
his command, control or super-
vision, from abusing,* mistreat-
ing, raping, killing and com-
mitting other atrocities ; robbing,
pillaging or destroying buildings
and property and unlawfully
using hospitals and churches as
fortifications, with resultant un-
necessary suffering and deaths.”
And he was also charged with
“being in a common plan” to
commit the general ruil of atro-
cities and to conceal them from
the Allied Powers, and finally
with failure to prevent atrocities
in the district in which he was
immediately stationed and par-
ticularly in Ofuna Prison Camp.
He was, in fact, charged as
the person supremely responsible
with the general range of atro-
cities committed by the Japanese
Navy very much at large and of
its officers ranging from Vice-
Admirals under his immediate
personal command down to the
cook-boys.
P.-0.-W. Are “Dead”
The tribunal was confronted
with aspects, as has been said,
unfamiliar to Western concep-
tions. The accused was obvi-
ously a Japanese, but on the ad-
missions by Japanese officers and
others of the acceptance of cer-
tain standards of conduct, they
were obliged to judge him by
those accepted criteria.
A second issue which arose in
a general way was the Japanese
attitude towards prisoners-of-
war. The tribunal declared:
This attitude, amply confirmed in
much evidence before this Tribunal,
differed greatly from Western con-
cepts. A Japanese taken prisoner-of-
war was degraded; he was theoret-
ically “dead to his people.” He had
lost his right to be a Japanese
Although the Japanese Government
announced adherence to the Geneva
Prisoner of War Convention of July
27, 1929.... the average Japanese
soldier or sailor would, to say the
least, have considerable difficulty in
differentiating between the treatment
that he was supposed to accord to an
enemy prisoner-of-war as compared
with what he himself was told to ex-
pect if captured.
The tribunal obviously thought
that it would have been difficult
to deal with the whole question
from a commander’s viewpoint
unless there had been a complete
Governmental reversal of the
traditional national outlook and
policy.
The phases which were con-
sidered were as follow:
The Philippines
That acts, atrocious and in-
humane, were committed by
Japanese Naval personnel in the
Philippines was beyond dispute.
But specifically the naval units
involved were at that time com-
manded in the Philippines, “both
legally and in fact,” by the
Japanese Army and by Generals
Yamashita, Muto and Yoko-
yama, under directives issued in
1943 which made the Navy re-
sponsible for all Philippine sea
areas, its own shore installations
and its air bases, and the Army
for the rest.
Thus, while the “Rape of
Manila” was perpetrated by
22,000 men, some 20,000
of whom were Navy, they
were under Rear-Admiral Iwa-
buchi, who was in turn under
General Yokoyama for the pur-
poses of the operation. And the
tribunal sensibly found that “the
responsibility for discipline in
the situation facing the battle
commander cannot be placed
in any hands other than his
own.” It was scarcely possible
under the circumstances to hold
the Home Commander-in-Chief
responsible in the absence of any
orders from him or linkage with
him in respect of what happened
in the Philippines.
Land Atrocities
During the time Admiral Toy-
oda held his command there
were allegedly 28 incidents of
atrocity against 105 p.-0.-w. and
four against non-combatants and
civilians to an indeterminate
number.
But here again the Admiral
was lucky. Policy and practice
in respect of p.-0.-w. were not in
his chain of responsibility—they
were an affair between the Navy
Minister and the specific units
concerned with the handling and
care of the wretched captives,
even in occupied territories.
Specific orders of the Navy
Minister “denied the Com-
mander -in - Chief, Combined
Fleet, any voice in matters of
administration of occupied terri-
tories governed by the consti-
tuent fleets of the combined
fleet.” His control, the tribunal
found, was “only operational
and tactical.”
Once the human potatoes
which he dug up by his battles
were in the bag, so to speak,
they ceased to be a Navy
C.-in-C.’s concern. They were
handed over by him to the store,
and that was the end of it.
And if the storeman was the
kind of fellow who hauled out
prisoners’ toenails and stretched
them backwards over a log and
filled them with water out of a
kerosene-tin, that was not the
Navy’s responsibility any more
than what the railway does to
a sack of potatoes concerns the
grower after he has sold.
C.-in-C.’s Duties
Furthermore, the Commander-
in-Chief of the Combined Fleets
occupied a very peculiar position
even for the head of a Navy.
Functionally, he was confined
by the intricate Naval organisa-
tion to “planning grand strategy
in its broadest scope, and by the
very breadth of this concern
had small association with, and
bore no responsibility for, the
methods employed by the Fleet
commanders in performance of
their missions”;
Indeed it would appear that his
H.Q. organisation of some 20 stall-
officers, confined to a floating H.Q.
in a cruiser in home waters, had small
means of searching out or gaining
knowledge of activity at the operat-
ing or combat levels, even had it
been within his tacit responsibility....
The accused could only have gained
actual knowledge of the particular
events by chance or by engaging in
a task outside the normal duties of
his office.
Attacks on Hospital Ships
Japanese air attacks on hospital
ships included that on the hos-
pital ship Comfort in October,
1944, and on the Hope on Dec.
3, 1944, both off Mindanao, and
a second attack on the Comfort
off Formosa.
With none of these was
Admiral Toyoda connected,
according to the evidence. The
tribunal remarked that “many
Allied hospital ships conducted
hundreds of sorties within range
of Japanese aircraft during the
campaigns up and down the
Pacific from the Philippines to
the Coral Sea, and back up in
the fierce battles accompanying
the island-hopping from Guadal-
canal to Okinawa, and yet we
are told in evidence of only three
other incidents.”
In passing, the tribunal adds,
“we note evidence of 10 attacks
by Allied aircraft on Japanese
hospital vessels, although there
is no allegation, even by the
Japanese, that these attacks were
premeditated or the result of the
policy of the Allied authorities.”
Merchant Sinkings
Atrocities against merchant-
men during Toyoda’s period
were only two, according to the
tribunal, against nine in the
period prior to his taking com-
mand. In his time there were
the sinking of the Jean Nicolet
in the Indian Ocean by a ship of
the Eighth Submarine Squadron
on July 2, 1944, and the sinking
of the John A, Johnson, east of
Hawaii, on October 29, 1944,
by a submarine of the Sixth
Fleet.
But about these there was
produced a specific Japanese
Naval General Staff order to
ships of the Navy that “when
.... they are obliged to attack
and sink any vessel, they shall
do their best to save the lives
of those on board.”
Although there was some evi-
dence, rather of a sketchy
nature, that this instruction was
overriden by oral orders, the
tribunal found that there was
“no proof, not open to doubt,
that the Imperial Japanese Navy
policy at any bigh command-
level, either before this defend-
ant stepped into its councils or
subsequently, favored, practised
or condoned the commission of
atrocities of this nature.” And
the charge against the accused
was “not proven.”
Generally speaking, the tri-
bunal held that in respect of
Admiral Toyoda, who “had
under his command 190 units
and 600,000 personnel, scattered
over a vast area,” there was “no
evidence on the professional or
personal activity of the defend-
ant, from December 7, 1941, to
ghe present, which would justify
a reasonable conclusion of guilt
under terms of the specification.”
All in all, however. Admiral
Toyoda should feel very thank-
ful that he was tried by a
tribunal which adjudicated ac-
cording to Western standards of
justice.


m
\ '
fm
§m
# .
f
ill
J
Si
Y/
sN
ii ii
h; n
sss
d
8
1 9
9
ft
L
3*
<3
\V
i
V
i
m
£SS
- ->
mm i
'
- GUx
-x Qtaxitt fa
Sfwtonral IHxtrartimis
When puddles troubled good Queen Bess,
’Twas Raleigh saw her Royal distress,
His muddied cloak and famous name
Are forever linked in immortal fame.
K.B.—A brew worthy of heroes
TOOTH'S K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited, Brewers of good beer since 1835
SUNRY SHOWS
New Melbourne
Gallery?
Melbourne’s official art
authorities have been debating
the abandonment of the present
National Gallery and the estab-
lishment of a new gallery and
cultural centre at Wirth’s Park
across the Yarra. The present
edifice shouldn’t be abandoned.
Outside, it is a handsome build-
ing. Inside, it is a frightful
muddle. The new project is a
golden opportunity to straighten
out the muddle. The existing
gallery should be preserved as a
repository only of pictures 100
years old or over.
Trustees, past and present,
have made no mistakes in the
purchase of these pictures. They
may have thought they bought
them on the strength of their
aesthetic judgment, but what they
really bought them on was the
prestige of their authors. The
art of the past has been largely
sifted and the duds excluded
and everybody bows now to the
artistic reputation of a Rem-
brandt, a Tintoretto, a Raeburn,
a Constable, a Corot or a
Turner. So the gallery has one
of the best Rembrandts and one
of the best Raeburns in exist-
ence, good Turners, Constables
and Corots and a lot of others.
In the contemporary field the
trustees haven’t been so fortu-
nate, however. In the post-war
years they have spent £150,000
of chemist Felton’s money, and
probably nine-tenths of the pic-
tures purchased are artistic junk
and will be so considered 20
years hence by the next set of
trustees, though there will be a
few which have slipped in with
some quality about them.
As J. S. MacDonald, the ex-
director, said the other day at
the opening of an art show,
official books which check art
prices show that every contempo-
rary artist Ruskin picked turned
out to be a duffer with the sole
exception of Turner, and he
might have added that the only
reason why Ruskin picked
Turner was because he liked him
personally Turner implored
Ruskin to give up writing on
art because he knew nothing
about it. And Ruskin was the
leading “art authority” of his
epoch.
There isn’t any evidence for
believing that the gallery’s
present advisers, like knight Ken-
neth Clarke, who can’t paint, are
any more intelligent or better
informed than Ruskin, or would
be more capable of picking the
winners amongst contemporary
artists than was Ruskin, so it is
almost a foregone conclusion!
that hundreds of works recently
purchased will be skulking in
the vaults within another decade.
That being the case, it would be
senseless to transport the whole
hodgepodge collection across the
Yarra, the good ’uns and the
bad ’uns cheek-by-jowl with one
another.
At the same time it would be
ridiculous for the trustees not to
buy contemporary works, be-
cause there may be good ’uns
as well as duds among them, and
living artists should be assisted.
The new gallery across the
Yarra should be a probationary
gallery, like the Luxembourg in
Paris. The French have had
long experience of their official
“experts,” how determined they
have been by art fashions and
how quickly the fashion changes,
so they keep the Luxembourg
exclusively for works by living
painters, and sculptors which
have been acquired by the State.
The works remain for a period
of 10 years after the death of
the artists, and the finest are
then sent to the Louvre. If the
present Melbourne gallery were
kept as Australia’s Louvre, in 50
years’ time it would be one of
the world’s finest collections. At
present it is largely a junk-shop.
F.S.
* * * *
Whether by accident or design
about half toe paintings at an
exhibition of flowerpieces at
David Jones’s Gallery, Sydney,
offer something less than
flowers; and, except that a seri-
ous attempt to command a
technique is always commend-
able, it is hardly worth while try-
ing to decide which category is
the more unsatisfactory; the
waxen lilies and wooden roses
of Dorothy Thornhill and Ade-
laide Perry, or toe strange
blooms by Carl Plate, which look
like a colored meccano-set, the
indeterminate bright blobs by
Sali Herman, green mists by
Francis Lymburner and element-
ary smudges by Paul Haefliger.
A flower, like any other image
from the natural world to be
translated into art, should come
up from the subconscious mind
clarified, intensified in the light
of vision—a requirement most
nearly fulfilled in this exhibition
by Maud Sherwood’s “Prim-
roses,” which, being also a poem
of spring, is not only a fine tech-
nical accomplishment but some-
thing more than a bunch of
flowers. Joshua Smith’s rather
loosely-arranged “Daffodils,” if
it does not add anything to
Nature, at least does not take
anything away; and, as well as
fidelity, Alison Rehfisch’s flowers
have a kind of domestic warmth
and Nora Heysen’s a richness of
the spirit. The exhibition
appears to have been restricted
to painters from the N. S. Wales
Society of Artists.
* * * *
The Twenty Melbourne Paint-
ers have moved for their 31st
annual exhibition to the Sedon
Galleries, and it is the best show
that gallery has had for a long
time. First in the quality of the
painting is the “Japanese Mag-
nolias” of Max Meldrum. A
large interior by the same artist
showing a girl seated at a grand
piano and a young man seated
in the shadows has a similar sin-
cerity, and there is some of the
same quality in the work of his
ex-pupils. John Farmer’s “Sunny
Morning” is rightly titled, and
“The Red Dress” of P. Hurry,
though only a sketch, has the
character of light about it. Alma
Figuerola’s “The Little Farm” is
nice, but in her portrait of
Halinka de Tarczynska, the
opera singer, the texture of flesh
isn’t given. Mrs. A. M. E. Bale
has a sensitive still life, and Jo
Sweatman continues to paint the
wattle. In a large portrait of
an attractive-looking woman W.
A. Dargie seems to be compet-
ing for the fashionable bays with
the late W. B. Mclnnes, and in
his “Eva” James Quinn seems to
be competing with the magazine
illustrators.
Grand Opera.
The returned Italians at Mel-
bourne His Majesty’s turned on
an all-Puccini week with “Tur-
andot,” “Boheme” and “La
Tosca.” It says something for
the versatility of the composer
that his inveterate melodiousness
suits itself to the pathos of
Mimi as well as it does to the
savagery of the Mongol princess
who chops the heads off her
lovers when they fail in a quiz
contest,
Puccini’s barbaric fairy tale,
which he never finished, requires
exceptional ferocity in a prima-
donna, and it got it in the person
of Germana di Giulio, who
nearly brought the theatre tum-
bling down in ruins with her tre-
mendous bellow in which there
was no room for feeling. Aldo
Ferracuti, as Prince Ignoto, an-
swered the Princess’s riddles and
won the jackpot with a tenor
adequate enough to give emotion
to the only aria which is on the
same artistic level as the best
in the other two operas.
Present commentator was
agreeably surprised by
“Boheme.’’ Having presumably
played and rehearsed the sad
story of the consumptive little
embroidery-worker approx. 1933
times since last in Melbourne,
the Malatrasi’s woefulness and
self-pity might have been ex-
pected to have become a trifle
shopworn. Instead, they seemed
as spontaneous as ever, and the
rich voice, though sometimes in-
clined to be a little shrill and
penetrating, painted her passion
for Alvino Misciano with com-
pelling swdetness.
“Tosca” is one of the few
operas in which the drama is
commensurate in intensity with
the music, and it reaches its
highest pitch in the fell scene
in Baron Scarpia’s salon at the
Farnese Palace. Mario Basiola
was superb as Chief of Police
of the Roman Gestapo. Lacking
both the physical height and the
vocal depth of Apollo Gran-
forte, who set new standards for
the role during a previous
Italian visitation, he made up
for it by the smouldering de-
liberation of his attack on the
virtue of Fortunati Tosca, whose
soprano was unfalteringly at the
service of all the moods of the
persecuted mistress of Cavara-
dossi.
“Rigoletto,” or the Body in
the Bag, was added to the pro-
cession, and will continue its
sanguinary course at intervals
during the rest of the season.
The two things that lift it above
the level of insensate melodrama
—the character of the daughter-
doting jester and the famous
quartet —are the best items in
it. At the hands and voice of
Mario Basiola the savage hunch-
back becomes a human figure,
though the same can’t be said for
Gilda in the person of Rina
Mariosa, who is an animated
doll equipped, however, with a
soprano that has gained in power
and beauty.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy a lOin. gravel-pump, larger
size considered; full details as to
condition, location and price.—469B.
Information Sought.
Cause, cure ami prevention of
Acne vulgaris?
The trouble usually begins at the
age of puberty or thereabouts, when
there is a great increase in the
activity of various glands in the
body. Fatty glands of the skin are
specially active, and grease secretion
tends to accumulate and clog surface
pores if sluggish elimination is al-
lowed to persist. Treat by keeping
the skin pores active; cleanse daily
with tepid water and a full soap
lather, and remove grease excess with
a spirit cleanser once or twice a week.
Meanwhile, look to health in general.
Diet simply, with curtailment of
fats, fried foods and sugars; take a
simple saline in warm water first
thing each morning, and exercise
daily in the open air. Persistent acne
demands the attention of a specialist.
* * * *
(1) // I purchase a cottage in
N.S.W. which is already let, what
period must elapse before I can give
the tenant notice to quit? (2) Would
it be necessary for me to provide the
tenant with suitable alternative ac-
commodation ? If so, who decides
as to the suitability of such alterna-
tive accommodation ? (3) Is it neces-
sary for the vendor to give the
present tenant the first right of pur-
chase ?
(1) If purchased after 30/6/’49,
two years after date of agreement,
unless after its date lessor has given
18 months notice of his intention to
serve a notice to quit. If purchased
before that date, six months. (2) De-
pends on ground stated in notice to
quit. If purchaser wants to occupy
property himself, yes, and the magis-
trate decides the suitability. If the
tenant is a “protected person,” and
alternative accommodation has to be
offered, there are more specific re-
quirements, e.g., rent must not be
greater, floor area must not be less,
and generally the alternative condi-
tions should not be inferior. (3) No.
* * * *
Where and when was Archie Kemp
born? When did he begin boxing,
and did he win any championships ?
How many professional contests had
he?
Archie Kemp was born in Fitzroy
(Vic.) on October 8, 1924. Began
boxing as an amateur in 1940, when
he won the Victorian bantamweight
championship. Kemp also won the
amateur featherweight championship
of Victoria, in 1941. After winning
the amateur welterweight champion-
ship of Victoria and Australia, Kemp
turned professional in 1947, and had
13 fights before his fatal one with
Jack Hassen at Sydney Stadium on
September 19, 1949. Only opponents
to defeat Kemp were Les Fuller,
Pierre Montane, Rudy Cruz and
Hassen.
Brief Answers.
V.G.V.: (1) The day after the
collapse of the Jameson Raid, William
11, the Kaiser of Germany, sent an
open telegram congratulating Kruger
that “without appealing to the help
of friendly Powers” he had repelled
the raiders. (2) The initials stand for
“District of Columbia”... .K.McK.:
(1) The highest number receiving un-
employment benefit in N.S.W. in
1949 was 101,449 on July 30. (2)
Particulars can be obtained from the
Social Services Branch, Department
of Labor and Industry, 132 George-
street, Sydney S.F.N.; Pyengana
is a Tasmanian aboriginal name
meaning “ground” (the noun).
Teewah means “quail” (a bird)
J.W.R.: (1) Add a small quantity of
ordinary glue. Cheaper to buy the
waterproof kind used by artists. J 2)
Any paint or dye which will give
desired results. Material is waxed to
prevent color spreading, wax being
washed off afterwards. Subject is a
large one, employing many materials
and processes. Examine color outfits
in shops selling artists’ materials, or
take lessons from a craft society.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be
addressed to the Editor,
J.D.McL.: Saw you fudging a mile
off R.C.H.: Not one of ours, but
there are other places K.N.: Egg
incident not exactly new-laid....
M.W.: Let us not tear away the veil
of privacy from your “Dear Little
Man” P.M.P.; All scene, no
actors... .G.M.H.: “The Truant’s”
truancy seems to have been hardly
worth while.... R.Y.H.; If you got
her on the bounce, that’s nothing to
write home about... .W.W.H.: The
story about the prospector who got
caught in a fall has to miss all the
previous 1,693,472 variations....
R.F.: “It had not been his intention
to kill his brother Henry”—and he
won’t be allowed to here 8.F.:
One thing that never gets by these
days is the “him” or “her” who is
murdered or subjected to fates worse
than death and then turns out to
be some bird, animal or insect
B.McG.: So grim and melancholy
at sixteen!... .S.H.: As you grow
older you may see that it is better
that literary merit should be com-
memorated by the vanity of the liv-
ing than that it should not be com-
memorated at a 11... .A.E.P.: “Damn
this suspense! ” — what suspense?.. • •
E.C.J.: “Rattsy” didn’t fall into our
trapsy.


More Pleasure
from Motoring
ẃ
p?
ẅ
w
ŵ
ẁ
SEND FOR
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
DETAILS AND
PRICES ON
APPLICATION
machines at only a frac-
tion ol their cost. The
"National" Rotary Dupli
color will reproduce
Typing, Writing. Plans.
Music, ole.
KuiU entiflj (» Australia (, r
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Oistrlhntlng Agent *—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE
ADELAIDE
PERTH
W. C. Penfold A Co. Pty. Lid.
• Norman Bros. Pt> Ltd.
• Vardoo A Sons Ltd
. Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
ẃ
Ancestors of
an Industry
ICI
ẅ
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
It was not surprising that such a
thorough student of anything he
tackles as is Winston Churchill
should have chosen a grey as the
first horse to carry his colors when
he recently added racing to his count-
less other interests. And not sur-
prising, for that matter, that he
should have chosen an evidently very
good ’un. Churchill’s grey colt
Colonist II has won at its last three
starts, by margins of up to 10 lengths.
The history of the grey thorough-
bred commenced with the importation
to England, somewhere round 1720,
of the animal generally known today
as the Alcock Arabian. As he
changed ownership he was known
under some 10 different names in all,
which rather confuses the issue, but
it is claimed that every grey thorough-
bred in the world today is descended
from him.
Until quite recently, however, the
grey was never a popular horse, his
being regarded as a “slow color.”
As recently as 1906 an English stu-
dent of the turf who produced a
book on breeding under the nom
de plume “Lottery” predicted that
the grey color would completely dis-
appear from the tracks, and other
experts widely and stoutly main-
tained that no grey would ever win
the English Derby. Then came to
confound the critics such grey speed-
sters as The Tetrarch, Tetratema and
Mumtaz Mahal, while, in 1936,
Mahmoud won the Derby at Epsom
in record time.
Surprisingly, still today many other-
wise sound judges are prejudiced
against greys, but over the past few
years in Australia, as well as over-
seas, the greys have been building
up a record of performances that
should rock any prejudice. At Rand-
wick on Saturday, opening day of the
A.J.C. spring carnival, Denali and
Nirandoli added the Epsom Handi-
cap and Breeders’ Plate, respectively,
to the impressive list of good races
won by greys in recent years.
With Denali at 25 to 1 beating the
favorite Buzmark by a couple of
lengths, the Epsom gave bookies a
wonderful result. Indeed, the bag-
men had a fine time all round;
favorites were beaten in all seven
races, and five winners started at
double-figure odds. There were 25
starters in the Epsom—the biggest
field since Claro won from 25 others
in 1923 —and betting was 10 to 1
bar two, with Buzmark at 5 to 2
and this page’s fancy, Count Aulone,
at 7 to 2.
Count Aulone’s huge pull in the
weights availed him nought. He had
every chance and led to the distance,
but, failing to see out the trip,
finished fifth. However, those who
backed Count Aulone each way on
the tote showed a small profit, as he
was bracketed with Wiranya, and,
that horse finishing third, the bracket
returned a place dividend of 12s. 6d.
When Buzmark collared Count
Aulone near the distance backers of
the favorite were beside themselves
with joy, while the books were
bracing themselves for a huge pay-
out, but Denali loomed up in relent-
less fashion and, conceding Buzmark
111 b. in the weights, won easily.
Wiranya came home exceptionally
well for third money, and, of the
others, about the most impressive
was Sir Raven, a bad last at one
stage and finishing a good sixth.
Owned by F. Tinson and trained
try K. Tinson, Denali is a six-year-
old gelding by Roxburgh-Tinagroo
and is a grey of the lightest possible
shade —slightly off-white. He was
bred at W. H. Mackay’s Tinagroo
stud, Scone, where also was bred the
1942 Epsom-winner Freckles. Turned
down by N. Sellwood, Denali pro-
vided a lucky mount for leading
Melbourne rider A. Breasley, up for
the day to ride Carbon Copy. It
was Breasley’s first Epsom winner.
At the 1947 yearling sales young
Sydney trainer T. J. Smith specula-
tively paid 1150 guineas for a son
of The Buzzard-Home Bird, thinking
that one or another of his patrons
may have been interested in the colt.
None were, and Smith raced the colt
himself as Playboy. On Saturday the
lightly-raced youngster won his first
race, the £lO,OOO A.J.C. Derby—
winner’s cut, £8277.
Ridden by G. Moore, Playboy
won in grand style after being twice
in bother and 6nce well and truly
down on his nose. Field Boy, whose
lack of stamina had been revealed in
the Canterbury and Rosehill Guineas,
tried to win by sheer speed, and, 15
lengths clear approaching the home
turn, seemed likely to do so. How-
ever, Field Boy’s lead had been cut
to half-a-dozen lengths as they
straightened up, and soon after he
was finished. Dickens went to the
front, but Playboy had his measure
at the distance and Playboy battled
on stoutly to withstand Delta’s strong
challenge nearing the post; three-
parts of a length to Delta, with
Dickens 2\ lengths further back.
Playboy started at 10 to 1, but was
solidly backed at longish odds; Delta
was favorite at twos, while Dickens
went out at 7 to 1.
A handsome, well-developed chest-
nut colt, Playboy is a typical son of
The Buzzard. The Buzzard has pro-
duced a string of notable stayers,
but most of his progeny tend to
improve with age, and he had not
previously been represented by a win-
ner of either the AJ.C. or Victoria
Derbies. His only previous major
classic victory was with Cathartes,
who dead-heated for first in the 1938
AJ.C. St. Leger. However, progeny
of The Buzzard have won three
Queensland Derbies, two Queensland
St. Legers and an Adelaide St. Leger,
as well as two Melbourne Cups, two
King’s Cups, a Caulfield Cup, a Syd-
ney Cup, an Australian Cup and three
Brisbane Cups.
Good as were the efforts of Denali
and Playboy, the most impressive
winne/ of the day at Randwick was
Vagabond (N. Sellwood) taking the
w.f.a. Colin Stephen Stakes (12f.).
As had been the case in the Derby,
the Stakes looked likely to develop
into a farce when Cronides streaked
away full tilt to set up a huge lead.
Other riders appeared totally un-
concerned, and, as Cronides passed
the half-mile mark some 30 lengths
to the good, punters who had laid
odds on the favorite Carbon Copy
had sudden, vivid recollections of
Cronides winning the St. Leger in
the same fashion. Still well clear
entering the straight, and going
comfortably, Cronides was eventually
overhauled about half a furlong from
home —not, however, by his stable-
mate Carbon Copy, but by Vaga-
bond, who produced a magnificent
run to win quite comfortably by
almost three lengths. Adding to the
impression that Vagabond’s was an
outstanding performance was the fact
that Cronides was still going well
enough at the finish to beat Carbon
Copy for second money. Vagabond
finished second (to Carbon Copy) in
the last Sydney Cup, but made
amends of sorts by beating three
Sydney Cup winners on Saturday—
Carbon Copy, Dark Marne and
Proctor.
The first Sydney two-year-old event
of the season, the Breeders’ Plate,
was won by Nirandoli, the first Aus-
tralian-bred son of Nizami to race
here. Hiraji, Nizam’s Ring, Grey
Nurse and the several other good
Nizamis seen here were bred in New
Zealand, but Nizami now stands at
F. W. Hughes’s Kooba stud. Very
often Breeders’ Plates are won from
go to whoa by exceptionally speedy
youngsters, but Nirandoli was well
back in the field as they entered the
straight and scored with a tip-top
finishing run through a lucky opening
along the rails. He won by two
lengths from Moriarty (a Gynerium-
Lady Uranium colt) with Quanmoona
(Actor-Marinus) third. Nirandoli
was one of two F. W. Hughes
entries for the Plate. The other,
Folderol, with A. Breasley up, was
considered the stable elect, and started
at 6 to 1, backed in from tens.
Nirandoli, with stable apprentice K.
Barratt aboard, went out at 50 to 1.
* * * *
In contrast to the thrashing ad-
ministered to the cash customers at
Rand wick, a good time was had by
all (save the bookies) at Flemington
on Saturday. Favorites were suc-
cessful in six of the seven races —
particularly remarkable as the card
included two Maribyrnong Trial
Stakes in which large fields of the
new two-year-olds had their first taste
of racing.
Two of the winning favorites were
odds-on propositions, but what did
surprise was that Comic Court should
have been only 4 to 1 on for the
Turnbull Stakes, in which, with his
only real rival, Carbon Copy, an ab-
sentee, he was opposed at w.f.a. by
Nilam, Ninnid, Stamen and Hurry
Up; 20 to 1 on would have seemed
an understandable quote. At any
rate they finished in the above-men-
tioned order, with Comic Court
scarcely achieving even beneficial
exercise in winning by a couple of
lengths.
The other odds-on favorite was the
brilliant Chicquita, opposed by 15
other three-year-old fillies in the
mile Edward Manifold Stakes.
They raced at level weights, but
the impression gained was that
a couple of stone would not have
covered the difference in class.
Chicquita won by four lengths, and
could well have made it a dozen;
Dusky Rose and consistent Adela
bagged the minor money.
The F. W. Hoysted stable, which
had such a wonderful run of luck
with two-year-olds last season, kicked
off on the right foot for the new
season by winning the Maribyrnong
Trial for fillies with True Course
(W. Williamson). A speedy-looking
daughter of Midstream, True Course
won by H lengths from Princess
Moira (by Royal Comet) and Bolero
(by Harinero). True Course clocked
53fsec. for the 4± furlongs, which is
smart enough, but the Bold Ben colt
Ben Law (W. Williamson), in win-
ning the Maribyrnong for colts and
geldings, registered 53isec., equalling
the record set by Green Wave and
Snowland in winning divisions of the
Maribyrnong 20 years ago. Ben Law
won clearly from Free Speech (by
Great Britain) and Conjurer (by El
Golea).
* * * *
The following, unearthed in a
volume titled Tent Life in Tiger-
land, published in 1888, may offer
some new refinements for Australian
enthusiasts whose previous notion of
a perfect day’s fishing was a com-
fortable boat, pleasant company and
adequate refreshments:
“With a short, light rod, a good
“ How's the horse , Doc .?”
silk line, and an English hook at-
tached to fine gut, I have enjoyed
many a good hour’s sport at Pare-
wah. I used to have a cane chair
sent down to the bank of the stream,
a punkah, or hand fan, plenty of
cooling drinks, and two coolie boys
in attendance to remove the fish,
renew baits and keep the punkah in
constant swing. There I used to sit,
enjoying my cigar and pulling in
little fish, sometimes at the rate of
a couple a minute.”
Shades of Walton!
* * * *
Polite comment by London “Daily
Telegraph” cricket writer mentioning
the Duke of Edinburgh’s efforts in
leading his own team v. Hampshire:
“Though the common picture of
the Duke is that of an ardent village
cricketer, he demonstrated once again
by his batting, bowling and zestful
fielding that he could always hold
his own in the company of good
cricketers if he could contrive time
to practise.”
At any rate it must be a long time
since the M.C.C. had as president
such an active participant in the
game as the Duke.
* * * *
The 1949 Australian Open golf
championship will be debated at the
19th hole for years to come. Pick-
worth, Open champion for three con-
secutive years, appeared home and
hosed for his fourth win when he
began the last 36 holes six strokes
ahead of his nearest rival, Eric
Cremin. Beginning the last nine
Cremin was still five strokes behind,
then birdied the 14th, 15th, 16th and
17th. He was playing a hole ahead
of Pickworth, and the birdie on the
17th put him a stroke ahead. He
got his par at the 18th for a record
68 and an aggregate of 287. Pick-
worth collapsed so badly that at the
18th he hit a ball into casual water
and, instead of picking out without
penalty, dropped another ball, hit
that into the water and dropped an-
other, adding two strokes. He had
to be disqualified, and second place
went to Von Nida with 294.
* * * *
The Victorian Football Associa-
tion’s final in Melbourne was a better
one than drew 88,000 to the League’s
Essendon-Carlton fiasco the pre-
vious week. Oakleigh led for three
quarters and was three points ahead
at the last change, after which
Williamstown just managed to get
there by 10.5 to 8.14.
* * * *
The N.S.W. All-Schools athletic
championships at S.C.G. on Saturday
brought one Olympic prospect to
light in David Johnson, of Wollon-
gong, who cut out the 100 in 9.7 and
the 200 in 22.1. He’s 17, stands sft.
11 in., and it’s a certainty that more
will be heard of him.
* * * *
Featherweight Ray Coleman, scal-
ing 8.12, conceded Novocastrian
Johnny Brown 21b. in their Leich-
hardt bout, but that was the only
concession he made. Boxing like a
champion, Coleman was far too
elusive, and won by a mile. The
Newcastle fans claim that Brown is
another Dave Sands, but as he didn’t
land one decent punch on Coleman
we really wouldn’t know about that.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for slicking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
//■
iJ
1
GEQ2EDBXE
40z., Boz., IGoz., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
Solv*, vj-Ctib
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer*
lasting. That's why a Globite
costs less in the long run.
Mad* by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
SWISS FINISHING SCHOOL
Le Colombier
A private and select Finishing School
for the Study of Languages ( French
and German ), Continental Culture,
deportment and domestic science.
For prospectus apply to : —
MAJOR and MADAM JACQUES H.E.CHABLE
Olinda Falls Rd., MT. DANDENONG, Victoria.
GALVANISED WATER PIPES IMPORTED
—PROMPT SHIPMENTS
Minimum Order, Hn. 600 ft.; 2in. 548 ft.; lin. 564 ft.
Also larger sizes up to 4in.
GALVANISED IRON IMPORTED - PROMPT SHIPMENTS
24-36 Gauge 6 x 3, 8 x 3. Minimum Order, 50 Sheets.
Also Imported CONSTRUCTIONAL STEEL
As quantities limited, apply immediately to.
L. H. SMART PTY. LTD., 23 Macquarie Place, Sydney.
L. H. SMART (Vic.) PTY. LTD., 422 Collins St., Melbourne.
Agents for Qld., W. Aust. and South Ausi.:
LUYA JULIUS PTY. LTD., 95-97 Street Bnsbane.
GRAHAM MALCOLM, Yorkshire House, St. George s Terrace,
H. MUECKE & CO., McLaren Place, Port Adelaide.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
CATTLE AT MELBOURNE SHOW.
“Mr.”; As might have been
expected in the leading dairying
State, dairy breeds provided the
bulk of Melbourne Show
entries, exceeding the com-
bined total of beef and dual-
purpose breeds by almost three
to one. Entries for all classes
and breeds totalled 2023, com-
pared with 1988 in 1948 —a re-
stricted figure imposed by the
R.A.S. because of its chronic
accommodation shortage. The
limitation gave many owners,
through no fault of their own,
the disappointment of seeing
their animals turned away. In
all, 278 cattle were barred from
competing, a rejection not neces-
sarily connected with quality.
Beef-cattle exhibits, though
comparatively few in number,
reached a peak of excellence
comparable with anything in
Australia.
Beef Cattle.
In Victoria Aberdeen-Angus
continue to advance steadily in
popularity, and the English
judge, J. H. Cridlan, who judged
the little blacks at Brisbane and
Adelaide this year, was im-
pressed with the quality. Notable
absentees were Wallah and
Booroomooka, two N.S.W. studs
which have been strong con-
tenders over the past few years.
However, N.S.W. won the bull
championship with last year’s
junior male champion Kahlua
Sir Francis, a young bull beauti-
fully fleshed, with deep broad
buttocks —a credit to the breed.
The reserve, Kahlua Domino,
and the champion cow, Kahlua
Venetian 3rd, came from the
Minter stud. Reserve champion
cow. Pride of Anthony (imp.), is
an attractive two-year-old heifer
from J. Bott’s Naranghi stud.
Poll Herefords fielded 60
head, an increase of 25 p.c. on
last year. Quality generally was
high, and the tops had the
Queensland judge, J. Sparks,
thinking hard before he finally
placed the champion sash on In-
vernisk Observer. This animal,
bought by R. G. Bryant, Nerrin
Nerrin (Vic.), at Sydney Show
this year, is by Milton Demo-
crat and was bred by H. T.
Thompson and Son. Reserve
bull champion was Geoff
Howell’s Munorhara Athenian.
The cow champion, Milton Hya-
cinth 4th, is owned by Mrs. W.
Howard Lewis, the reserve, The
Braes Maple Leaf 11th, comes
from J. A. Hanson’s stud, The
Braes, Macarthur.
Horned Herefords had one of
the best showings by this breed
in Victoria for many years. The
champion, Vern Australia, is by
Vern Robert, one of England’s
best sires, and the owner, J. R.
Allen, Mortlake, has reason to
congratulate himself on this bull.
Just two years old, Vern Aus-
tralia promises well for some
years to come. Reserve honors
went to Red Hill Legend (H.
Field Pty., Ltd.), a larger bull
than his conqueror and a year
older. Recompense for defeat
in the bull section came to
Legend’s exhibitor in the success
of Red Hill Chloe 6th in the cow
championship. Golf Hill stud
(Mrs. J. Biddlecombe) then came
with a late rush, winning the
female reserve and the champion
and reserve sashes in both junior
and female championships.
Among the Shorthorns, Lith-
gow and Ross’s 18-months-old
Dauntless Predominant was
champion bull, the reserve being
R. Carnegie’s Banool Grenadier.
Wongala Mossie (J. Kemelfield)
was female champion.
Dual-purpose Breeds,
Of the dual-purpose breeds,
the Red Polls dropped more
than 10 p.c. on 1948 figures, but
were not discredited by their 83
representatives. If anything,
quality was even better. The
judge, C. J. Robinson, had a
grand lot of animals to work on,
the tops fit to compete in any
company. The male champion,
T. E. N. Payne’s five-year-old
Woodburn Imp., is a richly-
colored, massive animal sired by
Woodburn Monitor and bred by
his owner at Kilmore (Vic.), The
reserve, Buln Gherin War Lad,
comes from C. O. Lorimer’s stud
at Ocean Grove. A. R. Beggs
paraded the female champion,
Niawanda Boronia.
Dairy Shorthorns made an ex-
cellent showing with 158 repre-
sentatives. As with, the Red
Polls, quality was not lacking,
and the judge had a task few
envied when judging a remark-
ably even lot. Male champion,
Drumneil lan 3rd, is an eight-
year-old bull exhibited by P. N.
Hickey. The reserve, Churchill
Paradox 20th, comes from the
estate of the late W. K. Atkin-
son.
Dairy Breeds.
A.I.S. fielded 224 head, 11
fewer than last year. Most
came from Gippsland and
north-eastern Victoria, though
N.S.W. was well represented.
Champion bull, Nagirroc Win-
ston, was bred by J. L. Corrigan,
and exhibited by F. D. Spottis-
wood. The seven-year-old
Myrtleville Velocity was in re-
serve. Female champion, Tab-
bagong Beauty 31st, is owned by
A. E. Story.
Ayrshires made a proud
showing and attracted a large
ringside audience during most of
the day. This year’s champion,
Glengowrie Baron Again, a
nicely-marked brown and white
four-year-old, owned by A.
Facey and Sons, Millicent, S.A.,
was champion at this year’s
Sydney Show, and filled reserve
position in last year’s Mel-
bourne Show. Reserve went to
T. Hose’s Burwood Social Jus-
tice. The female championship
was won by Uroonda Elegance
for the S.A. breeder T. S. Pater-
noster.
Jerseys paraded 466 head this
year against 471 in 1948. In all
they made a nice display, but,
as might have been expected
with such a large entry, the tail
wagged rather obviously ; especi-
ally among the younger cattle.
“You can't beat Working for a gentleman farmer !”
C. S. Walker’s five-year-old bull
Bellavista Signalman Royal (imp.
British Columbia) repeated his
success of last year. Ballarat
Orphanage’s Wilda Park Gold-
finder, bred by Mrs. H. A.
Prince, took reserve position.
C. S, Walker had another suc-
cess in the female section, wim
ning the sash with his N.Z. im-
portation, Tolgarth Illusion.
Banyule stud exhibited the
female reserve winner, Banyule
Mermaid.
The Department of Agricul-
ture’s Friesian, Victoria Olson,
won the bull championship this
year. Olson is the Department’s
leading sire at Werribee. He’s
out of this year’s standard test
champion cow, Victoria Olga,
who yielded 9051 b. of butterfat
in 273 days. R. A. Smith’s
three-year-old bull Ravenswood
Percy, bred by J. Wills and
Sons, took the reserve. Female
championship went to Salesian
College with Rupertswood
Homestead Olga 7th and the re-
serve to the Department of Agri-
culture with the nine-year-old
Victoria Jostle.
With their golden coloring
and attractive markings, the
Guernseys made a fine display.
The bull, Yarraview Illustrious,
bred and exhibited at Yarraview
by Captain A. E. T. Payne,
annexed the championship, with
H. Raymond’s Myrtle Grove
Winston in reserve. Colin Scott
was successful in the female
section with his 10-year-old cow,
Glenoak Morning Glory. This
cow has a remarkable record,
winning the championship of
both Sydney and Melbourne
Shows for the past two years,
following a Melbourne Show re-
serve championship in 1947.
Feeding Horses.
“Rooster”: There’s more to
it than just tossing a measure of
oats and chaff into the feed-box.
To start with, the type of fod-
der must conform to the condi-
tions of work and climate.
Quantity and quality of grazing
should also be taken into ac-
count ; overfeeding is just as in-
jurious as insufficiency, and is
uneconomical. Avoid mouldy
or musty food; if no other is
available steaming is advisable.
Principle deterrent to good
mastication is bad teeth. Ex-
amine regularly. With long
periods of neglect the edges of
the teeth become tapered and
too sharp, and the animal is
forced to “bolt” its food. In
young horses there is sometimes
faulty shedding of the first
teeth; this also retards proper
mastication. Such dental imper-
fections lead to digestive dis-
orders, often to colic. Don’t
tackle the job yourself unless
you’re qualified. Send for the
vet.
It’s best to water working
horses before feeding, but,
should they be too hot, allow
them a little time in which to
cool off. With prolonged exer-
tion no animal relishes its food
until the thirst is satisfied.
Moreover, it stimulates diges-
tion. The water should be the
purest obtainable, if possible
clear and free from taste or
odor. The average horse re-
quires from five to 15 gallons
daily, depending on the tempera-
ture and the class of work per-
formed.
There’s no hard-and-fast rule
regarding the making-up of a
food ration. The amount varies
according to the type of work —
light, medium or heavy. The
ration should, however, contain
at least l|lb. of protein, llilb.
of starch equivalent and 251 b. of
dry matter. Usual mixture con-
sists of oat or wheat sheaf-chaff
together with oats. Failing oats,
maize or barley makes a good
substitute. Tables showing ap-
plicable amounts can be ascer-
tained from any good textbook
on animal husbandry.
How Rabbits Multiply.
“C.S.”: Striking figures illus-
trating the fantastic rate at which
rabbits can breed have been
published by the New Zealand
Department of Agriculture.
Basing its calculations on the
recognised gestation period of 28
to 30 days, and an average litter
of six, the department states:
“Assuming that each doe pro-
duces in a year eight litters of
six, of equal sexes, and that the
young does breed at 15 weeks,
the total increase for the year
from one pair will be 534, if
there are no casualties. Allow-
ing that from all causes half this
increase will become casualties
before the beginning of the
second year, the second breed-
ing season will begin with 267,
plus one of the original pair, a
total of 268. Half of this
number, 134, are does, each pro-
ducing an increase of 534 in the
season: 435 x 134 = 71,556.
“The casualties during the
second year and succeeding years
would be fewer than in the first
year, as the toll taken by natural
enemies would not increase in
proportion, but allowing that
losses remain at 50 p.c., the
third year will start with half the
previous year’s increase, 35,778,
plus 134 (with which the second
season started) = 35,912.
“Half of these, or 17,956,
are does, each giving an
increase of 534 in the year:
17,956 x 534 = 9,588,504. To
this must be added the number
at the beginning of the season,
35,912, showing a total of
9,624,416 at the end of the third
year.”
Irrigating Pastures.
“He-Ne”: Spectacular results
have been obtained on the Upper
Hunter from irrigating improved
pastures, W. Dalton, of Scone,
renovated an old lucerne stand,
and on February 28 last sowed,
a mixed pasture at the rate of
21b. of Phalaris tuberosa, 21b. of
sub, clover, 21b. of perennial red
clover and 21b. of Rhodes-grass
per acre.
There was a good strike, and
the area was spray-irrigated in
April; the subsequent growth
was so phenomenal that the six-
acre paddock was ready to graze
on June 30. Dalton ran 130
weaner lambs until July 20, but
they made little impression, so
he then grazed 200 springing
ewes until August 7.
The Newcastle agronomist,
G. T. Dawson, said that burr
clover is providing splendid
stock fodder on the Upper
Hunter. Barwick and Son, of
Scone, cultivated a basaltic
gravelly ridge three times during
last spring and summer. This
eradicated a dense mat of grass
and created a seed-bed for the
burr clover which is now 30in.
high.
To Save Money.
“Sundowner”: Fowls give
eggs for the household and
manure for the vegetable gar-
den, which in turn supplies cheap
vegies for the household and
greenstuff for the fowls.
Use coarse sawdust for litter
in the fowl-pen. It absorbs
moisture readily, also releases it
quickly, especially when it is
turned over by the scratching of
poultry in their search for food
or dust-bathing. It is better not
to use Pinus radiata sawdust,


~<s
GuK^Swjj
K)
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1027.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware o I imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fldes of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
NJ3.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria; Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
4ou th Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnerney &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services.
lAvim
Swiss
Masterpieces
\ Seventeen-
V Jewelled
\v*
fl' o9 rto eW' e
lAWIMA
Watches
Founded in 1832
VILLERET, SUISSE
LW.!
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HLLDTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
Improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Bpedal Quotes to Retailers for lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
LEARN TO PLAY THE
HILL BILLY GUITAR
By this amazing system you, too, can be
an accomplished musician. Learn in the
privacy of your own home by this com-
plete modern method of illustrated instruc-
tions by Nev Harland.
The course is simple and you need have
no knowledge of music. LEARN to play
popular tunes in a few weeks.
Send sid. in stamps for details of this
amazing course and the first five lessons
free, to prove my ability to teach you,
to Dept. 5.8., 'llth Floor,
A.C.A. Building, 66 King
Street, Sydney.
For Sale.
LIMBING TOMATO, bears a whole
year, yields 2001 b.; has 20ft. runners
loaded with large red tomatoes. Disease
and drought resistant. Sensation in
America. 2/6 pkt. posted.
N.S.W. SEED GO., Kurnell, Sydney.
as in great
grandfather’s day
Pastoralists profit from
the complete and efficient
service of A.M.L.&F.
Sale of wool • Stock and produce \
Pastoral finance • Station requirements j
r
mm
Inc. in England 1563
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Hoad Office for Australia: 4 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
and at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches— N.S.W.; Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Oowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld; Townsville, Charleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents: McPhie & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
p*
m
"SIRIUS"
MINOR
DUMPY
LEVEL
Write for
particulars
w
For contour levelling,
irrigation and drainage,
etc. High-quality in-
struments for immediate
delivery. Complete with
case and tripod,
£2B/3/4.
Horizontal Circle (in
Degrees), £2/14/4 extra.
Also Abney Levels, Pris-
matic Compasses, Op-
tical Square, General
Survey and Drafting
Requirements,
AND SONS
PTY. LTD.
42 HUNTER ST., SYDNEY. 8W8631.
SEE
THE
J 9
"
W-
'"l
■•• ,;•*-<*>■ KrTf^r' ’ :;i£
Iwrf 1 f
ii^
x
•■*
r
/t.f - - ••.
;*><' ? *
w
wm>
*■ >& •
<Wmm
WS \V
;■ t- '.
■■ : ’ &,v
• .
OT-M
r«V'
■■ ■ 4 ■' ;/ ■ :Uv'V : ■• 1 "' '' * ■
x/ ; . \
\< ':-:%••. .>•* ■:■ -V M . > - ; :: / : :
. „*,✓ <■', ,- <
Marguerite
man in a scene
from “The Green
Promise.'
This is a shot from a film you’ll never forget, “The
Green Promise,” a warm, human drama that is
part of your life. It is a film in which every
Australian will recognise a stirring message.
Realising the significance of this great film, Allis-
Chalmers were proud to co-operate in its produc-
tion. That is why you’ll recognise familiar friends
in the “supporting” roles—Allis-Chalmers modern
farming equipment. For in America, as in
Australia, Allis-Chalmers is recognised as the leader
in mechanised farming. See “The Green Promise”
—and enter the Allis-Chalmers Essay Contest.
AND WIN
£BO
IN PRIZES
Allis-Chalmers, in co-opera*
tion with R.K.O. Radio Pic*
tures and "The Australian
Junior Farmer" Magazine,
otter two grand prizes for
the best essays entitled
"The Significance of 'The
Green Promise* to Aus*
tralian Farmers."
There are Two Classes in
this section of the contest.
1. The Allis-Chalmers
Award. £4O for the best
essay by a member of a
"Junior Farmers" or "Young
Farmers" Club.
2. The R.K.O.—"Australian
Junior Farmer" Award. £2O
for the best essay by a
practising farmer or farm-
ing student between 21 and
30 years.
CONDITIONS: No entry fee.
Essays should not exceed
1,000 words. Essays hTClass
I should be addressed to
"The Green Promise" Essay '
Contest, c/o Allis-Chalmers
Manufacturing Co., Shell
House, Carrington Street,
Sydney. Class 2 to The
Australian Junior Farmers'
Magazine, 16 Bridge Street,
Sydney. Closing date —>
March 30th, 1950.
Winning Essays will be pub-
lished in "The Australian
Junior Farmer" Magazine.
No correspondence regard-
ing entries will be .entered
into.
A further prize of £2O is being
offered by the publishers of
"Power Fawning in Australia and
N.Z." for the best essay titled
"Erosion Control, Prevention and
Reclamation Using Tractors and
Machinery." This section is open
to all-comers, irrespective of age
or occupation, and entries should
be addressed to "Power Farm-
ing," Box 1813, 5.P.0., Sydney.
Judge's decision is final.
ŵ
ALUS - CHALMERS
BACKED BY NATION-WIDE DEALER SERVICE
but it will suffice for any but
young chickens.
To improve soil both for use
in the fowlhouse and the garden
add it to the sawdust in equal
parts. One part of bulk chaff
can also be added to two of soil
and two of sawdust. This litter
should be at least Sin. deep. It
will not need renewing for a
year, and by then is ideal for
manuring. Be sure both soil and
sawdust are dry before putting
in the fowlhouse.
Cutting Window-glass.
“Gerry”: Do it on a flat table
covered with a blanket. The
glass must be thoroughly clean.
Take it by opposite edges and
hold in the perpendicular. Rest
one edge on the table and lay it
down, spreading the fingers
underneath to take the weight.
From the measurement deduct
1-16 in. to allow for cutter, and
another 1-16 in. for play in the
window-frame. To cut, place a
straight-edge along the measure-
ment marks, hold firm with the
fingers of one hand, and with
the other use the cutter to make
one clean decisive cut. This is
not actually a cut but a deep
scratch, and should be made with
a firm though not heavy stroke.
Lie the cut along the edge of
the table, not forgetting to sup-
port the projecting section, and
tap lightly with the back of the
cutter all along the underside of
the cut. Now press down sharply
till the cut breaks apart. With a
long strip, break from each end,
working towards the middle.
Are Wheatlands Failing?
“B. Cubbin”: Can present
yields be increased on old land ;
does land reach a peak of wheat
production and, if it does, must
degeneration necessarily follow?
Further, if we say that a grower
has got the highest yield he will
ever get off a particular area,
are we to say that agricultural
science, plant-breeding and good
farming can go on maintaining
high yields, or will there shortly
come a time when the land will
begin to fail? All of which is
another way of asking whether
the existing wheat country can
increase present average yields,
or maintain average yields, or
will it begin to go back.
The R.A. Societies, Depart-
ments of Agriculture, country-
show and agricultural bodies
are all interested in these ques-
tions. The plain fact is that the
change from the old bad single-
cropping farming to the new
rotations is neither as rapid nor
as popular as it should be.
Keeping the soil fertile is the
farmer’s main responsibility
other than making his farm pay,
and if he doesn’t keep his soil
fertile his farm won’t pay. In
central-west N.S.W. particu-
larly, alarm is expressed by
agronomists on this question, an
alarm shared by the R.A.S. of
N.S.W., whose forthcoming
field-wheat championships are
expected to yield some valuable
information on the subject.
Hints for the Farm.
“Beau Forte”; Forcing a car
or truck up a steep gradient in
top, with accelerator hard down
and the engine laboring, does
more harm than a slow ascent
in a lower gear. Full throttle
under heavy load raises the tem-
perature, which is harmful to
tight-fitting alloy pistons and new
bearings in a new vehicle.
“Billjim”; If cut when the
pollen is blowing, meadow-hay
will contain about 7.6 p.c. of
protein and, if the pasture is rich
in clover, about 12.2 p.p. The
earlier the cutting the greater the
subsequent regrowth and better
use for grazing.
“Grey”; When planning a new
shearing-shed allow sufficient
clearance on the wool-board
side to construct a supplement-
ary yard underneath. This side
will be free from fouling by
shedded sheep and can easily be
made weatherproof. The normal
shed will house a half-day’s
supply of sheep, but with short-
age of shearers and high costs
of shearing it is necessary to
ensure a whole day’s work. The
dry yard will prove of value in
dull weather, when the sheep will
not dry out properly, as well as
in wet weather.
“Metax”: A piece of lead
sheathing about 6in. long from
a scrap of telephone cable such
as linesmen throw away makes
an excellent handgrip for a wire
bucket-handle.
“Lash”: I would like to draw
attention to the danger of tur-
nips (B. 31/8/’49) as feed for
stock when ewes or cows are
pregnant. Turnips apparently
cause premature birth. Out of
200 ewes we lost 30 before tak-
ing them out of the paddock,
and while feeding sows on tur-
nips we had a similar experi-
ence. I could not guarantee that
the turnips caused the premature
births, but the evidence seems to
point that way,
“8.A.”; Whether you use
cotters or wire for engine big-
end bearings, see that they fit,
completely filling the pin-holes in
the bolts, otherwise the swinging
motion will wear them out in a
remarkably short time. With
wire, best results are obtained by
using one wire for the two bolts
of a bearing.
“Rooster”: A successful prize-
winner in a Victorian bacon-pig
carcass competition produced his
winning entries from two litters
of Large Whites. Sows and
suckers had continuous access to
self-feeders filled with crushed
wheat. Buttermilk was provided
in separate troughs most of the
time. Shelter was small portable
huts in quarter-acre paddocks of
rye-grass and clover. Sows were
removed about eight weeks after
farrowing, the weaners remain-
ing for a month longer. They
were then placed in intensive
pens for fattening.


FLY THE PACIFIC
Sleep on Land
at Night!
Fly by Day
ft
ml
*
Hi
on wings of the world’s greatest travel system
Fly from Sydney to Vancouver, Canada on Canadian Pacific
“Empress” airUners—via Fiji and Honolulu. Superb service-
delicious meals —4-engine pressurised planes .... You sleep
on land at night—with hotel room and meals at no extra cost
at Fiji and Honolulu !
Choose the “All Red Route” from Australia to the United Kingdom.
Travel Canadian Pacific all the way—air— train—steamship.
Travel air all the way —Canadian Pacific Air Lines to Vancouver
—connecting air lines to the United Kingdom.
Through fares may be purchased in Australian currency.
Also fly Canadian Pacific Air Lines between Vancouver—
Tokyo—Hong Kong—the shortest and fastest route from
North America to the Far East—comfortable pressur-
ised aircraft —traditional Canadian Pacific service.
★ For further details apply Canadian Pacific
Railway Company, or Union Steam Ship
Co. (General Agents), 2J/7 George St,,
Sydney, and 59 William St*, Mel -
bourne, or any authorised
Tourist Agency .
m
ẁ
BLOTCHY
iff> SKIN
RfcUt' •£ marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment, It as-
sures skin health. Always
keep a tin of Cuticura Oint-
ment in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Cuticura
Ointment, Soap and
Talcum Powder. 533
BRANDAIIER’S
SR
PENS
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
CBRANDAUER & BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
LOOK YOUR BEST!
:
Hide iN
Personal appearance means much
be proud of yours it always pays to
look your best.
We, too, have pride: —Pride in every
hat that leaves our mill . . • Pride in
the dependable service
each hat will give its
wearer . . . Pride in our
splendid customer rela-
tions over the past thirty-
seven years.
i A
V
mtd
a
SMOKE-OH!
To the Best!
With the Best!
IT'S REMY MARTIN BRANDY
“Max Falstein sat quietly in the
House today, not saying a word.”
—Sydney ‘‘Daily Telegraph.”
But it’s a bet he kept a close
watch on proceedings.
4* 4* *b ,
“Women today take a size larger
shoe than they did 25 years ago.”
— Woman’s paper.
Yet many still feel the pinch,
•b *b *b
“Unmarried women should not be
termed spinsters until 55.”
—Sydney “Sun:”
By then they’ve become
wedded to the idea.
•b *b *l*
A certain political opponent of
the Minister for Misinformation
now refers to him as Mr.
Macaw-Lwell and adds —sotto
voce —“Kiss cocky.”
Day of Reckoning.
Why was it that Ben Chifiey kept
delaying
Announcement of our next
election date?
Was this prolonged postpone-
ment mere essaying
To dodge a day of settlement
with fate
That, just to say the least, must
be dismaying ?
Or was he on the other hand
finessing
•To keep the Opposition in the
dark
While he prepared a final win-
dow-dressing
Or some shrewd stratagem
that’s deep and dark
To win the wavering electors’
blessing ?
I feel assured that Ben’s pro-
crastination
Derived from fear that those
who foot the bill
For crack-brained schemes that
lead to wild inflation,
Unmoved by all his “sterling
record," will
Assess him at. his own devalua-
tion.
D.H.E.
Yo Ho, and a Bottle of Ink!
“The Commonwealth Shipping Line
has lost just on £11,000,000 in three
years.”
The Government-owned S.S.
Barnacle was outward bound, or
almost outward bound, from
Melbourne to Newcastle with a
cargo of mallee-roots urgently
required as fuel for the power-
house boilers.
Loading had started last
December when there were only
about 10 shovelfuls of coal left
in the powerhouse’s bunkers on
the last day of the miners’
Christmas holidays. What had
made the dispatch of the cargo
doubly urgent was an assurance
given by the miners’ Commo
leaders that there would be no
trouble on the coalfields on re-
sumption.
After the first two slingfuls
of the cargo had been put into
the hold the wharfies went on
strike and declared the ship
“black” because their claim for
an extra 6s. an hour danger-
money, owing to the highly com-
bustible nature of the cargo, was
refused.
Four months later they called
the ban off when the “Govern-
ment,” firmly refusing to capitu-
late to the wharfies’ original de-
mands, agreed to pay them only
ss. 9d. per hour.
A further two-months’ hold-
up started the next day when the
wharfies demanded 10s. a day
“disappearance money,” the dis-
appearance being necessary
several times a day when the
hot work of looking at slings
going up and down gave them
an extra-grouse thirst. Comrade
Healy’s threat to tie up the
whole waterfront if the demand
wasn’t granted was met by the
“Government’s” stout refusal to
pay more than Bs. (“All right,
Jim, but soft-pedal a bit on the
strikes until after the election,
will you?”)
After several more strikes, in-
cluding a “lightning” one, this
time in “defiance” of the Federa-
tion, as a protest against eye-
strain caused by the monotony
of looking at the same-colored
roots for so long, the S.S. Bar-
nacle was at last loaded. This
established a record speed for
turn-round in Government ships
of eight months 161 days, and
the feat was celebrated by the
crew with a night out on sailing-
eve. Next day, an hour or so
before the lines were due to be
cast off, the cook’s valet reported
to his union that as he was
weaving his way up the gang-
plank from the celebration the
captain looked at him in an in-
solent way. All the seamen then
left the ship to attend a mass
“ Oh, sir—you called me by my first number!”
meeting at which they demanded
that the captain be replaced by
another. A fortnight later they
returned on terms which the
Minister refused to disclose, but
if it were the same captain he
had shrunk eight inches in height
and put on five stone.
Further delay occurred while
alterations were made to the
officers’ quarters to accommodate
the additional complement
approved by the Board: an
assistant-captain, assistant-cap-
tain’s chief clerk, the chief clerk’s
confidential clerk, the confiden-
tial clerk’s under-clerk (fourth-
grade), an acting-temporary-
assistant daily-mileage computer
and recorder (special-grade) and
a political commissar.
The ship seemed in danger of
getting away within 10 months
of its original scheduled sailing
date, but this was happily averted
when a demarcation dispute
arose between the Seamen’s and
the Stewards and Pantrymen’s
unions as to who should push
the knives and forks apart if
they were thrown together by a
roll of the ship when the steward
was serving them their roast-
chicken course. After a fort-
night’s deadlock, the Board
agreed that this work should be
done by the confidential clerk’s
under-clerk, who was to get a
special allowance of £2O a month
for it.
At last the rush cargo was on
its way to help keep Australia’s
wheels of industry turning! The
captain, with the approval of
the assistant-captain and the
ship’s political commissar,
ordered full-speed ahead, but
what with the full growth of
whiskers on the bottom owing
to the ship having been alto-
gether only seven weeks at sea
in five years, and the rather rusty
condition of the engines because
the official who authorised the
issue of lubricating oils had gone
on retiring-leave some months
ago and applications hadn’t yet
been called for for filling the
vacant position, the ship had only
two speeds * dead-slow and stop.
The second day out S.S. Bar-
nacle ran into a light head-wind
and finished with a day’s run of
minus 32 miles.
Eleven weeks after the ship
had left Melbourne it was steam-
ing bravely up the N.S.W. coast,
the Plimsoll-line showing well
above water—this was because,
having run out of fuel, about
three-quarters of the cargo had
had to be used under the boilers.
When it was off Botany Bay the
seamen held a stopwork meeting
and demanded they put in to
Sydney, which they expected to
reach next day, when there was
to be a Communist peace-rally
in the Domain, at which then-
leader, Comrade Elliott, was to
speak. The skipper refused. The
ship’s political commissar sided
with the men. Both gave contrary
orders to the helmsman, who, in
the confusion, put the ship fast
on a reef.
“Fixer” Hashley, the Minister
for Shipping and Fuel, was
busy studying the spring racing
form when a radio message was
handed him. . It was from the
Barnacle’s skipper and read:
“Gone on the rocks —what form
will I fill in?”
The Senate’s golden-tongued
orator grunted. “Well, so’s the
’ole Guvverment shippin’ line,”
he said. “Does ’e think ’e’s
yerneek?”
BO.
There’s No Denying!
“Women who get bad reputations
should ‘no’ better.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Fair daughters of our mother
Eve,
You’ve scarcely wisdom, I be-
lieve,
When you are innocent and
green
And, let us say, just sweet six-
teen
To realise that assignations
Can compromise your reputa-
tions ;
And when you’re quite mature
* brunettes
Or blondes parading cigarettes
And lapping up flirtatious
glances
Or cocktails at your frequent
dances
You’ll hardly find yourselves
imbued
With worldly knowledge that is
shrewd
Enough to cope with wagging
tongues
Backed up by gossips’ tireless
lungs —
In fact, you won’t "no" better,
dears.
Until you reach declining
years!
BERT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The' contributor placed first Is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
White Australia
“Barwon” (B. 21/9/ ’49) speaks of the
objections to Calwell’s methods as
“maudlin sentiment. and highfalutin
ethical abstractions,” but a lot of it is
based on more realistic ground. .
Old-timers like myself have supported
the White Australia policy all our lives,
but we disagree strongly with the Gov-
ernment’s methods. We have always be-
lieved that the policy meant the exclusion
of any large hordes of coolies, whether
they came of their own accord, or were
brought here by employers.
At the same time we have always be-
lieved in decent treatment and rights for
those already here. We don’t want “Jim
Crow” cars or similar things in Aus-
tralia. We don’t think it wise to spend
money on a “goodwill mission” to Malaya
and then arouse those peoples’ hate by
expelling a few Malay seamen; or to
throw away our trade with the Philip-
pines in order to block one solitary man
from visiting Australia.
“White Australia” is getting advertised
in a fashion that may well mean its end.
—R. H. W. (N.S.W.).
Railways
As A. B. Doyle (B. 17/8/’49) and
“Transporticus” (B. 31/8/ ’49) point out,
railways are indispensable to Australia,
and that despite the attack (B. 3/ 8 / ’49):
“The whole blessed continent to be laced
with 4ft. S^in.-gauge railways on the
excuse of defence and development.”
Why should that be a bad thing? Why,
for instance, should the linking of Darwin
by a standard-gauge railway with the rest
of the continent be anything but a valu-
able asset? It was certainly needed during
the war, and will certainly be needed for
future peace - time development of
Northern Australia.
As a comparison between the capa-
bilities of road and rail, take the example
of war-time traffic on this particular route
from the south to Darwin. At one time
there were 2000 Army lorries operating
on the Great North road running from
the railhead northwards to Darwin. Each
lorry was double manned. Traffic ran
only during the day, putting up for the
night at the various staging-camps along
the road. There was other traffic coming
by road from the Mt. Isa railhead with
the same extravagant manpower. What
it all cost will probably never be known.
With a standard-gauge railway to
Darwin, built with, say, 801 b. rails, all
that traffic could have been handled by
half a dozen train units.— Geo Beesley
(N.S.W.).
Alec B. Doyle’s contribution was most
sensible, but it’s a pity he dragged in
ttte ugly possibilities of strangulation.”
Why “ugly possibilities”? He insists that
we elect a responsible Government and
trust it, but if such a body decided to
regulate transport, as any responsible
Government would, that would be
strangulation”? He insists on the indis-
pensability of the rail method, but he
won’t allow it protection from unfair, un-
economic and subsidised competition.
He can’t have it both ways. Any trans-
port organisation which accepts full re-
sponsibility for all traffic in its territory,
taking the good with the bad, the seasonal
glut with the off-seasonal slack, must be
afforded protection from irresponsible
competition. There’s nothing theoretical
or ideological about that, and it applies
alike to a State railway and to the
monopoly bus service which connects my
Queensland village with all trains summer
and winter.
Doyle quotes figures which reveal a
fantastic situation. If he’s right, in 1948,
a year of petrol-rationing, Australia spent
the stupendous sum of £550,000,000 on
internal transport, the completely non-
productive operation of moving goods
and persons from place, to place. Rail-
ways cost £56,000,000, for which they
handled most of the freight, 36,000,000
tons plus 500,000,000 passengers.
The balance, almost £500,000,000 was
spent on what? It goes without saying
that it represents transport dependent on
dollar-bought oil, but how much was
essential? £500,000,000? One per cent,
of that huge outlay would cover all we
spent on soil-conservation, water supply,
forestry, the eradication of the rabbit and
the blowfly, all matters on which our very
existence depends,
Australia needs to make up its mind
quickly whether or not it is going to
retain rail transportation. If it is, the de-
cision must be taken unequivocally. To
put the various systems in any sort of
condition to perform their functions, with
or without unification of gauges, is going
to cost a great deal of money—public
money—and that outlay has to be pro-
tected. There can be no question of
using the railways as a producer of cream
for somebody else to skim, of using them
to handle traffic which nobody else wants,
and if that leads to restriction, or
“strangulation” of other less essential
carriers, what of it?
The position today is intolerable. Never
have we had so many commercial motor-
vehicles on the roads. Never has a
country poured out so much per head to
foster “cheap” air-travel. Never have our
vital industries been so completely ham-
strung for want of transport. Coal,
wheat, cement, zinc concentrates, timber,
sorghum, sugar, steel, livestock and all
the hundred and one other items on which
we depend for our livelihood are either
held back or are forced to use expensive
substitutes, and all because our over-
publicised secondary industries cannot
provide a few cheap and simple rail-
trucks and the locomotives to haul them.
That is strangulation, the holding back
of our genuine progress, and it’s the sort
of which I’m afraid. The other kind does
not matter at all except to the directly
interested parties, and they get far too
much consideration as it is,—Trans-
porticus (Singapore.).
New Guinea Capital
“Karrimba” (B. 14/9/’49), in his
advocacy of a site in the D’Entrecasteaux
group as a capital for New Guinea, over-
looks one salient fact. While admitting
that island trade must be seaborne, he
picks on the most dangerous and reef-
infested waters in the whole archipelago
as surroundings for his island capital.
The north end of China Straits and
the vicinity of Cape Nelson are looked on
with holy horror by the deep-sea ship-
master, and treated with the utmost
respect by the local schooner skipper
familiar with those waters. I have served
at sea in both those capacities, and gazed
with apprehension and dismay at large
blank sections of the chart embellished
with the legend “Reefs seen here by
D’Entrecasteaux 1798,” and “All this
area very foul.”
If the capital is to be moved there, a
new hydrographic survey is indicated, and
I hear that our Labor masters have now
no surveying vessel in commission, except
one on loan to the N.Z. Government.
First things first, and, change of capital
or not, couldn’t the Navy estimates be
increased to commission one sloop for the
above purpose? A good chart is a last-
ing asset, whereas a bottle of free medicine
may be the final push towards the under-
taker’s parlor.— Salt Horse Pom (Vic.).
Tax Hint
I trust “F.D.” (B. 14/9/’49) has not yet
destroyed his medical receipts, for even
although he pays no income tax but only
social-services contributions, his medical
expenses are indirectly taken into account
in arriving at his assessment.
The First Schedule of the Social
Services Contribution Act provides that
the rate of contribution for every £1 of
the contributable income shall be deter-
mined according to the excess of the con-
tributable income over the rebatable
amount. Medical, chemist and lodge ex-
penses are included in the rebatable
amount.
The Taxation Commissioner does not
usually want to see medical receipts be-
fore he admits a claim as part of the re-
batable amount, but he reserves the right
to require the production of receipts on
request, or, if not the receipts, then dupli-
cate receipts or some documentary
evidence of payment.— Tax Agent (Q.).
S.A. Show Lesson
The Adelaide Show has demonstrated
clearly the effect of wages on costs and
sales. The great annual event requires
months of preparation and the labor of
many tradesmen. This year costs have
soared because of higher wage-rates and
shorter hours. As a result the price of
admission was raised from Is, to 2s. and
other charges in proportion. As a
further result tens of thousands of people
stayed away, and what promised to be a
record house was a comparative failure.
No doubt the new prices enabled
the books to be balanced, but that
is not the point. The whole purpose
is that the Show should be seen
by as many of the public as possible.
Otherwise the various competitions
could have been held in . camera,
with no one present but the judges. For
the Shop Window of the State to be all
dressed up with no one to see it would
be absurd. The real measure of the
success of the display is the size of the
crowd and the degree of interest stirred.
The committee has un-
avoidably proved that there is an
economic limit to wages and costs, and
that the limit is reached when buyers
tighten their purse-strings. The Show is
an admirable cross-section of the indus-
tries of Australia, and its experience is
a complete contradiction of the theory
that high standards of living can be
secured and perpetuated by the simple
process of changing a few price-tickets.
—Thud (S.A.).
Queensland’s Wild Pigs
To some Queenslanders pigs mean
tame pigs for pork ; to others they mean
riders shooting from the hip, and snout
bonuses from local authorities towards
exterminating the wild variety.
The wild pig being only the tame pig
gone bush, it can be said that better pigs
are running wild than are exhibited at
many country shows; also, most pork
eaten west* of the coast range is supplied
by the wild pig. Scores of them are caught
young, reared to baconer stage at nine
months old and sent to face the com-
petitive market with the best. One
grazier regularly sent a couple each year
to the bacon factory to be cured and the
bacon sent back, but last year the pigs
reached the factory ahead of instructions
so they mailed him £lB for the two and
kept the bacon.
Aiding and abetting the wild pig
apart from environment —is the wild pie-
melon, which is also the tame pie-melon
gone bush. From the coast range to
beyond the Thompson River it flourishes
in countless millions, many scaling un to
601 b.
In 1949 Queensland had 453,587 tame
pigs, but we do not know, even to the
nearest million, how many wild pigs there
are. Being an all-round feeder Dennis
shares with stock such pastures as are
going, grubs up roots and insects and
maintains a sleek condition. Then, with
the advent of drought, he changes to a
meat diet as the sheep start to weaken,
and retains not only his life, but his con-
dition. Sun, scald, sandflies or flood
don’t worry him, and it is a very sick pig
or a very small, undefended one that
tempts the dingo to forget his habitual
respect for the wild grunter.
On September 19 the Rockhampton
“Bulletin” published an appeal at the re-
quest of E. M. Pullar, M.Vc., Veterinary
Research Institute, Victoria, for a wide
range of information regarding Queens-
land’s wild pigs. The answer was a blank
silence. Other than to eat him, nobody
in Queensland can whip up interest in
the wild pig, because he uses mostly that
vast pastoral area—better than half of
the State —where the human population
is steadily thinning after 30 years of
Labor’s “decentralising” policy.
What the wild pig of Queensland him-
self indicates is that his natural habitat
is the open range. Barrett Bros., of Bar-
moya, near Rockhampton, have taken the
hint by establishing a 75-bushel self-
feeder for crushed grain for 200 pigs, and
have proved that with this and good
grazing they can put on 21b. per pig
per day. An even more modern set-up
is the foregoing feeder with two others—
one for meatmeal and the other for bone-
meal and salt. The pig more than any
other animal is a selective feeder and
likes the cafeteria style of helping him-
self, It is slowly being realised that the
sty technique of pig-feeding is the cost-
liest possible method of producing pork
and the surest way to spread pig diseases.
The world wants pig-meats, not from
hundreds or thousands of pigs, but from
millions, and we have them in Queensland
producing themselves and telling us all
there is to know in healthy pig culture. —
F.R. (Q.).
Cost of Government
Britain’s P.M. has asked for a cut of
at least 5 p.c. in administrative expendi-
ture in the current year. That is in addi-
tion to the British Treasury’s call to all
departments to cut estimates to the tune
of £150,000,000 on next year’s Budget of
£4,000,000,000 —which goes to show the
luxurious way in which Governments
spend the taxpayers’ money.
We have heard nothing from Mr.
Attlee’s Socialist counterpart in Canberra
on Governmental retrenchment. On the
contrary. Commonwealth taxation is de-
signed to’ catch the votes of the gullible
majority and maintain a horde of civil
servants, many of whom could well be
spared to produce goods for export as
well as for local consumption, and thus
reduce the alarming cost of living in rela-
tion to incomes. Only those who put in
an honest day’s work for a fixed salary or
wage can appreciate the menace of a
taxation-obsessed Treasurer. Obelist
(Tas.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 37
Across.
I—Four of these make NEWS! (10)
5 Firm approval of what the can-
nibals would do to the famous
navigator, given the chance. (4)
9 A ludicrous bkmder in a decree
from the Vatican. (4)
10 Doing laundry by weight always
produces capital in America. (10)
12 The current master is disorderly.
(6)
13 Make an allusion about French
iron. (5)
5 No pence in the expensive tree.
°)
16—Merciless court to which, the
coppers come for jarrah, for
example. (8)
18—Valorous fellow is placed in the
resting-places by such “coffin-
nails.” (8)
-o—Barrel legislation is read from the
nght timber. (6)
24 ~~ Sc ? unds unprofitable for under-
takers—and with knobs on. (5)
'“'"■Conditional return like a firm
theatrical flop. (6)
Shun , rings ( ana g ra m). (10)
babe disturbed Aramis’s occupa-
tion. (4)
(CRYPTIC type.)
(Solution in next issue.)
29 — Break out into open rebellion
because of an increase in pay. (4)
30— Sedative piano layer with suc-
cessful service on the vessel. (10)
£
Down. ,
1— Discussed the pros and cons
when Bradman, for instance, was
in action. (7)
2 Govern by regulation? (4)
3 Spanish novelist takes one grad-
uate with a French nose. (6)
4 Governor of Judea under Ar-
taxerxes. (8)
6 Dislocated Monday dishes are
often made thus. (3, 2,5)
7 Relations of a merciful Marxist.
(7)
8— South free of Communists but
grunted when asleep. (6)
11—Volcano. (4)
14—Rent worships these fighters of
nine across. (10)
17— Convulsive attacks upset marine
fauna that are somewhat rigid
or unfortunate. (8)
18— Shrewder councillor gets about
with Miss Laurie. (7)
19 — Queerest. (6)
21—Waggish feature of the Champs-
Elysdes. (4) y
22 Metallic seabird abbey in Mon-
mouthshire. (7)
23 A horse in a victory vehicle for
abstainers. (6)
26 —Border on a conjunction. (4)
Solution to Crossword No. 36.


ŵ
ẁ
*4osp-Jof}*p
*&*<<£■(: /-TvTTT ...:,
imSm si I
S&?
■.s*
V vi
wiju
,oXN
y.-jici
!»»
,
&
• ; r-^
piiii
* J-‘lh
f'.:' = b: vS
>, ••" ■* •
~ r
gffi
ffiW:?
in ip
nMMH
asiss
fl
mm I
SS:
f&m&t
tm;
m
_ ~l
iiMSW
: : ::A:-if:"-.H<Sv3Sr.,
’w-v‘;i rS .; smgg&
y. , V"’ K*\ I>S:- 1- t *• •
*>■ •? -.... • • • t
«
i;i r
-i
S,,v - •’!• ,' V f '- ~ dmS&*W
AS USED BY N.S.W.
GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS
AND SUPPLIED EXCLUSIVELY
TO THE
SYDNEY COUNTY COUNCIL
—FOR CARS AND TRUCKS—
FOR
15th CONSECUTIVE YEAR.
Equipment on Radiola for
J. 7 years.
BATTERIES FOR ALL
PURPOSES:
CAR, TRUCK, TRACTOR.
RADIO, LAUNCH.
HOME LIGHTING,
ELECTRIC FENCER. ETC.
DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE
N.S.W.:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
156 Goulburn Street, SYDNEY.
Queensland:
ERG BATTERIES PTY., LTD.,
32-34 Barry Parade, BRISBANE.
Victoria:
KEEP BROS. & WOOD PTY., LTD.,
200 Latrob© Street, MELBOURNE.
South Australia:
DAVID L. PRESCOTT,
91 Flinders Street, ADELAIDE.
Western Australia:
NICHOLSONS, LIMITED,
Barrack Street, Perth; 3 Adelaide Street,
Fremantle; Hannan Street, Kalgoorlie.
Tasmania:
ERG DISTRIBUTORS, LAUNCESTON;
TASMANIAN RUBBER CO., LTD., HOBART*
Manufactured by
New Zealand:
BATTERY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURERS, LTD.,
436 Broadway, Newmarket, AUCKLAND, S.E.I.
New Caledonia:
HAGEN FRERES, NOUMEA,
Fiji:
ELTRON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING CO.,
SUVA.
ERG BATTERIES PTY„ LTD.
156 Goulburn Street, Sydney, ’Phone; MA 6188 (3 lines)
32-34 Barry Parade, Brisbane. ’Phones: B 6565, B 4448
