

DRY
A PRODUCT OF THE
w
HOUSE OE SEP PELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70-No. 3607
Wednesday, March 30, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General. Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
r THE charm of Wales lies in its magni-
ficent mountain scenery, the fairy
beauty of larch woods in spring, the
soft colours of the moorland hills and
the glimpses into quiet valleys apparently
still untouched by the stress of. modern
industrialism. Here also is a land of
romantic castles which all add to the
character and individuality which go to
make up the Welsh scene.
One of these castles is St. Donat’s, a
baronial mansion of the 14th century,
still inhabited, which stands on the coast
overlooking the Bristol Channel from its
series of beautifully terraced gardens.
The original castle of 1166 was the
property of Lucas Butler, in whose family
it remained until the reign of Edward I
(1272-1307). It then passed to the
Stradling family, who held it until 1738,
when the last male heir, while on a tour
of the continent, was killed in a duel
at Montpellier. His body was brought
home to St. Donat’s, where it lay in state
for a day and a night. The flambeaux
placed around it caught some of the
funeral trappings and set fire to the
family pictures which lined the great
gallery, so that the portraits of five
generations of Stradlings were burned
with the body of their last representative.
After much litigation St. Donat’s Caslle
passed through many hands, including
two American citizens.
The Stradlings were vigorous royalists
during the Civil War and were the main-
stay of the King’s cause in South Wales.
After the “Second Civil War” of 1648
one of them died in prison and another
was exiled to Ireland. After the Battle
of Naseby in 1645 St. Donat’s gave
refuge to the fugitive Archbishop Usher,
who stayed here for over a year and
devoted his time to writing. His study in
the castle can still be seen.
The present well preserved building has
some Elizabethan additions and some
good and careful Victorian restorations.
In the magnificent state rooms are
carvings by Grinling Gibbons. On the
coast near the castle are the Tressilian
Caves, once the haunt of smugglers.
WALES HAS MANY CASTLES BUT NONE NORE ROMANTIC THAN ST. DONAT'S


Siorv Writing
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 249
AOE.
The Red Page
A LIFE OF STRINDBERG.
Strindberg, the Swedish genius whose
“Dream Play” had an airing in Sydney
last year at the Independent Theatre, was
afraid all his life that he would go mad;
and often he was close enough to it. And
at the same time, as Elizabeth Sprigge’s
The Strange Life of August Strindberg
(Hamish Hamilton) shows pretty clearly,
he enjoyed posing as a madman, because
it seemed the correct attitude for a
literary gentleman of his period, under
the influence of Poe and Baudelaire.
Bom in 1849 and dying in 1912, he was
of what Yeats called “the doomed genera-
tion” of the ’nineties, when drink or
drugs, perversion or prostitutes, long
hair or lunacy were considered much
more important for success in the arts
than mere paint hr ink. It was a theory
which paid certain dividends: if it lost
the clear lyrical vigor of the Elizabethans,
it brought out tlie poetry of despair; if
it lost the balance of Browning, it liber-
ated the imagination. It exhibited to the
world the dark side of the moon.
A weakness in Elizabeth Sprigge’s bio-
graphy is that it fails clearly to distin-
guish between Strindberg’s fear of mad-
ness and his affection for it: between the
real thing and the affectation. Her fore-
word, mentioning the selected Strindberg
letters published in 1946 and the collected
letters published in 1948, “a few weeks
before this volume went to press,” and
admitting that “Strindberg undoubtedly
exaggerated some aspects of his life in
his autobiographies,” seems like an after-
thought, apologising for a book which,
in the light of the letters, should have been
rewritten.
The tendency, particularly in the early
chapters, where by earnest drinking
among bohemians and prostitutes Strind-
berg was busily making himself mad
enough to be a genius of his period, is to
take the playwright at his own valuation;
and, worse, to infuse into his own senti-
mental estimate of his character that
peculiar and unbearable sentimentality
which arises from a naive reverence for
the arts. Strindberg in his boyhood is not
presented as a human being but as “fey”
and “a changeling,” and his own picture
of the acute miseries of his childhood —
which, in fact, seems to have been happy
enough: there were Sunday evening con-
certs when the family quartdt played
Beethoven, Haydn and Mozart —is
accepted, broadly, without question. His
emotions at the age of four or six have a
sublimity absurdly inappropriate to his
years;—
Since he had not asked to be bom, he
could not see that he owed anyone grati-
tude, and his love for his mother was as
tormenting as hatred. When he was away
he was sick with longing and could feel
the invisible cord binding him to her, yet
when they were together their hearts were
hidden from one another . . . Where,
August Strindberg wondered, was this
family love that people talked and wrote
about so much —an eye for an eye and a
tooth for a tooth was the law between
the boys ; they were all scarred with each
other’s blows . . .
Equally disturbing as this sentimental
exaggeration, and caused by the same
romantic tendency, is the lack of docu-
mentation in the biography. Far too
often there is no evidence submitted as
to the truth or falsity of Strindberg’s
accounts of his eccentricities, and far too
often there are vague generalities instead
of precise details. In his early manhood,
says the biographer, “he wrote to a
mental home, described his dreams and
hallucinations, his fears and aphasia, and
asked to be admitted for a cure.’’ Very
good ; but precisely what did he dream ;
what were his hallucinations; and why
not quote the letter?
Some of the things he was afraid of,
we learn later on, when Strindberg is in
one of his more-or-less demented periods
in middle-life, were “loneliness, people,
dogs and the dark.” Again, very good ;
but why not show Strindberg afraid of a
dog, or at least quote what he wrote about
it?
Occasionally, when he was in Berlin,
writing a drama about the mystical com-
position of sulphur, “he even experi-
enced,” says the biographer, “the com-
plete departure of the spirit from his
body, and returned to life exhausted but
inspired.” Once more, very good indeed ;
but why not supply some details of this
unusual peregrination?
When he was in Paris, says the bio-
grapher,
He rejoiced that he was free of women,
hut he wanted his wives to love him still
and call him back ; the thought came sud-
denly that the sickness of a child —the
slight sickness of a child exaggerated by
an anxious mother —would bring this call.
His occult studies had taught him what to
do. As soon as he used black magic
Strindberg had a sense of foreboding, and
as the days passed he was convinced that
the unknown powers had turned against
him.
Good again; this is intensely interesting
information ; but precisely what had his
occult studies taught him to do?
And at the same period, when he was
reading Job and the Lamentations of
Jeremiah and contemplating the approach
of old age, “he now challenged every
orthodox tenet about the earth, moon and
stars —with the result that he was elected
a member of two astronomical) societies.”
Splendid ; but why not tell the reader,
who cannot reasonably be expected to
know as much about Strindberg as his
biographer, exactly what were these
momentous things he said about the earth,
the moon and the stars? It is all very
well for Strindberg to be mad, but it is
unkind of Miss Sprigge to be maddening.
And maddening, at frequent intervals,
the biographer certainly is. When Strind-
berg is back in Sweden, old, famous and
abandoned by the last of his three wives,
he tells- the producer of his plays “of the
unknown powers which ruled his life, and
even occasionally demonstrated his
alliance with them by willing a watch to
stop or performing some other harmless
piece of magic”: and Elizabeth Sprigge
submits even this astounding piece of in-
formation without quoting documentary
evidence and without comment.
But the book is by no means wholly
maddening. If poverty of evidence is its
chief weakness as a biography, a wealth
of evidence is its great virtue as an
account and an explanation of Strind-
berg’s writings. Anybody who saw the
Sydney performance of the “Dream Play”
and, as would be very likely, had only the
vaguest idea what it was all about, would
find Elizabeth Sprigge invaluable. Strind-
berg’s difficult and tortuous symbology is
hardly to be comprehended without
knowledge of his life —for it was always
his own problems and usually his own
experiences he was discussing—and here
it is shown very clearly how the plays
arose in his life and how his life arose in
the plays;
If Harriet Bosse felt trapped, so did
Strindberg. His spirit was dragged down
by petty irritations—a curtain awry, a
chair out of place or an imperfect cup of
coffee could ruin his day. He found eat-
ing horribly unromantic and wished people
did not have to do it at all. He had never
been so strongly aware of the inner con-
flict of heaven and earth. He could not
live without human love; yet his third
marriage was following the old pattern
He wove his lamentations into “A Dream
Play” and he brought a daughter of the
gods to earth to see if human complaint
was justified. ,
Because of Harriet Bosse’s looks she came
as a Daughter of Indra. To her Strindberg
gave his own agony of being earthbound,
his despair at life’s limitations “I paste!
I paste!” the servant girl cried and con-
tinued to stop up every chink in the
windows with her strips of paper, until
the daughter of the heavens, inhaling the
fumes of cabbage, gasped for air The
servant pasted man up in his prison
cell, the Lawyer twisted the squeaking
doorhandle and with it the heart of love,
the rich were tortured on the racks of the
gymnasium, a tormented earth stretched
heavenward—the castle itself growing out
of the manure, the huge hollyhocks climbing
to the light, man himself ascending the
ladder of suffering.
There is much more than this on the
“Dream Play” and the other works are
discussed with an equally admirable mix-
ture of fact and perception. Notes on
Strindberg’s relations with the writers
and artists of his period, particularly
Knut Hamsun and Ibsen and the painter
Gauguin, whom he admired as “a
savage detesting the encumbrances of
civilisation, a child breaking his toys to
bits to make other toys out of them,”
add to the usefulness of the book as a
guide to the work of a man who ap-
proached his own art, so his second wife’s
sister wrote, “with the savage impulse
driving a murderer to his crime,”
This statement is one of the occasions
when Elizabeth Sprigge does provide
documentary evidence on Strindberg as
a man as well as a writer; and because,
though with gaps, she does this increas-
ingly in the middle and later chapters, the
book gathers weight as it proceeds. It
gathers force, too, because Strindberg
takes charge of it: he is so weird and
violent a character that it does not matter
in the long run that occasionally his
weirdness is not proven or he is taken too
much at his own valuation. His own
valuation was, after all, so very nearly
cdrrect: “My fire is the greatest in
Sweden....! am unique....! have not
met my superior yet 1 was meant to
be born a woman,.., ”
A biographer could hardly fail to make
an interesting book out of a character
who climbed to the top* of a pine-tree and
cursed the universe; who needed six ex-
clamation marks to ask a woman to for-
give him for begging that she should run
away with him from her husband; who
believed he had found out how to make
gold ; who tried to murder by black
magic a Pole whom he believed to be
his enemy and, when the Pole murdered
his mistress and their two children, held
himself responsible for the crime ; who
thought he was persecuted by an old man
“with grey and wicked eyes like a bear’s”
who carried mysterious objects into the
room adjoining his ; who was troubled
by wheels over his head and an electric
current that used to strike hirn “like
a cyclone”; who kept holy water
in his bedroom to avert the nightly
visitations of demons and stabbed
with a Dalmatian dagger at the invisible
enemies that crept upon him; whose
third wife, when he had left the room
after arguments in which she had de-
fended women, would hear him “wash-
ing and washing his hands” ; who, by a
chance that seems oddly in keeping with
his disastrous and demoniacal nature, had
had his epitaph spoken in The Great
Highway by a Japanese named Hiro-
shima ; and who, during one of his bursts
of frenzied creative activity, wrote 17
plays in five years.
Elizabeth Sprigge’s book has the faults
that have been noted. Allowing Strind-
berg’s wives to go out of the story when
they go out of his life, it does not fill the
canvas as broadly and richly as it should.
It will not be the “final” biography of
Strindberg. But Strindberg does come to
life in it. That is partly because of the
intrinsic interest of his extraordinary
personality, but also because his story is
told here not only with sympathetic
understanding but with complete candor.
Spanish Holliday.
When Dr. Halliday Sutherland was
leaving' Spain, towards the end of 1946
( Spanish Journey; Hollis and Carter),
after a tour of inspection as guest of the
Spanish Government, he went to say
good-bye to General Franco:
We shook hands. The interpreter walked
backwards towards the door. Being unused
to the J etiquette of courts, I walked side-
ways, but kept looking at Franco. He
stood watching our departure from the
corner of his desk. Thinking of the lone-
liness of sovereignty I muttered, “May God
help you in your task.” Franco called
“What did he say?” and the interpreter
answered “Your Excellency, he has prayed
that God may help you in your work.”
With right hand outstretched, Franco
took three long paces towards me. Not a
word was said; but we looked each other
in the eyes; and the hands that clasped
and pressed were the hands of friends.
This little scene leaves no doubt where
Dr. Sutherland’s affections lie, and he
does not mind stating his position clearly.
In San Sebastian, a political prisoner told
him:
“I was brought before the Civil Governor,
who said he had information that I had
been speaking against the regime. I de-
manded to be faced by my accuser. He
said this was not allowed and fined me
2000 pesetas. I could not pay, so he sent
me to prison.”
“For how long?”
“I don’t know.”
Dr, Sutherland concludes the man to be
a Communist, and goes on:
Be that as it may, I realised that Spain
was a Police State. All civilised countries
are policed; but by Police State is meant a
country in which people may be imprisoned
by order of the Government without a
public trial. If that definition be accepted
then England was a Police State from 1939
to 1945 And now, when Russia is seek-
ing to impose the Communist yoke on
Spain, as she has imposed it on the
Balkan States, on Hungary, Rumania and
Yugoslavia, it is also fair to regard a Police
State in Spain as a regrettable necessity.
That necessity will disappear as soon as
Russia ceases to finance Communist action
in Spain, to incite civil war by daily broad-
casts from the Toulouse Radio, to main-
tain armed bands on the Spanish frontier,
and to seek international intervention in the
internal affairs of a Sovereign State.
Because he believes that “the State has
no existence whatever apart from the
individuals who make it,” Dr. Sutherland
hasn’t much time for the Falange; he
found some Spaniards who hated it; and
a girl said to him, “It was all right when
it started, but now it is all wrong. No,
they don’t get extra rations; but if a
Falangist is at the head of a, department
or a business he will favor members of the
party.” At the same time, because
“Franco foresaw the danger of a State
within a State,” he dismissed his brother-
in-law, who admired Mussolini and was
head of the Falange Council:
Today the party has no real political
power. It carries on with its social services,
youth clubs and other good works. Never-
theless, it is generally detested. Why?
Mainly, I think, because neither Fascism
nor Communism could take deep root in a
nation of individualists.
From all of which contradiction and
speculation, it is pleasant to get away to
the solidity and certainty of the best
chapter in the book, on bullfighting, and
a kind of bullfighting which has not been
considered in Hemingway’s monumental
essay, Death in the Afternoon —bull-
fighting from horseback. The horses for
this kind of bullfighting are not the
ancient nags used by picadors in the first
section of ordinary bullfighting; they are
“half English, quarter Arab and quarter
Spanish,” for “courage, quickness and in-
telligence.” They are trained for not less
than three years before they are taken
into a bull-ring ; and part of the training
is teaching them to dodge a bull’s head
mounted on a tricycle which is ridden at
them by stable-boys. And they need all
the education they can get, as can be seen
when one is carrying the wealthy re-
joneador, Alvaro de Domecq y Diaz, in
the ring:
Rider and mare are motionless in the
centre of the arena. The bull rushes in
and stops a few yards from the offside of
the mare. The mare begins the haute icole.
After raising each foot in turn, she gives
an exhibition of walking sideways. A horse-
show, except that the nearest spectator- is a
wild bull who soon tires of watching the
performance and charges the mare’s flanks.
Ere he reaches them, those flanks are
thrown aside and the bull finds nothing in
his path. Then begins a chase in which
Domecq gallops the mare in circles anti-
clockwise in front of the bull. So accurate
is the timing that the mare always passes
a few feet in front of the horns.
At each of these passings, the bull-
fighter inserts spears in the shoulder-
muscles of the bull. One kind has a
barbed-metal point, and the shaft breaks
at the insertion, and a small flag unfurls
from the break ; the other kind is heavier.
They are to slow the bull down, and make
him drop his head.
The most famous woman in Spain,
more famous than any film star, is Con-
chita Citron, Spain’s only rejoneadora, a
rich Peruvian girl hardly out of her teens.
Having got her preliminary spears ( rejon
de arpon and rejon de castigd) into the
bull, she changed horses:
Her next mount was a chestnut mare,
and a hush fell on the Plaza when the
rejon de muerte was handed to the girl.
She was going to kill. Her spear had a
steel blade a foot in length. She signalled
to the men to leave the arena. The mare
was some twelve yards from the bull. The
bull charged the mare, and the mare at a
sharp gallop charged the bull. It looked
as if the two would cpllide. At the last
moment the mare swerved and passed the
bull; and in that swift passing the “spear
of death” went home. The bull dropped
on his knees and rolled over dead.
At the bullfight, Dr. Sutherland sur-
prised and pleased his Spanish hosts by
shouting “Ole, Old!” before they did.
He was able to explain that he was an old
aficiendo, and had had lessons from the
famous matador Litri—for he had lived
in Spain in his youth; and the last part
of the book is his return to Huelva, where
his uncle had been a doctor, and his re-
newal of his friendship with a Spanish
girl he had not seen for 40 years.
The Melbourne Book (Ure Smith Pty.
Ltd.) contains drawings and paintings of
the city by Kenneth Jack and an his-
torical outline by Clive Turnbull. Prose
and pictures are alike graceful and
informative, the former printed in clear
type on good-quality paper, the latter
reproduced in color and black-and-white,
and the lot contained in a soft-covered
booklet of about 40 pages. Altogether
a distinguished little production, which
should appeal to amateurs of history,
casual admirers of art and, particularly,
citizens of Melbourne.
Our Old Man: Millie Toole (Dent).
Biography of Joseph Toole, an English
Labor politician and Lord Mayor of Man-
chester, who died in 1945. The news-
papers used to call him “Personality iSo.
1 of Manchester”; an unconventional,
Rabelaisian or at any rate Dickensian
character who was born in the slums,
frequently quarrelled with his party and
still more frequently with his wife, had a
great gusto for life and won some inter-
national celebrity when, on being greeted
by Ribbentrop with the Hitler salute at
a pre-war dinner in Manchester, he pulled
the Ambassador’s arm down and shook
hands with him, saying “That s how we
do it in England.” His daughter tells
his story —including the blitz period
with spirit, humor and a frankness mat
brings him admirably to life-
A Mickle of Mickle.
The hero of The Execution of New-
come Bowles (Australasian Publishing
Co.) is Solomon Holmes Loquat, said to
be a grandson of Sherlock Holmes ; but
his author seems to have no relationship
to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle; rather be
seems to be Mr. Alan D. Mickle, the
well-known Australian essayist; and this
is unfortunate, because Sir Arthur’s rela-
tions had a way of being excellently swift
and spare, whereas Mr. Mickle’s little
story tends to get lost in decorative by-
ways.
However, there are some pleasant in-
ventions; the derivation of Benjamin
Musquash’s surgical skill from his father,
a butcher, for instance, and Solomon
Loquat’s ability to sniff different scents
with each nostril and hear two conversa-
tions by giving one ear to each; and if
some should feel, that Mr. Mickle has
spent a great deal of effort and in-
genuity upon the murder of a character
who has never quite come to life, others
will feel delight that so harmless a murder
can be accomplished, and in the author s
illustrations may discover an added charm.


TRUTH MIN ADVERTISING”
MOM HORDERNS’
Don’t miss the Exhibition of Central
Australian Water Colours by Rex
Battarbee, to be opened by Abor-
iginal singer Mr. Harold Blair,
3 p.m., Tuesday, sth April.
Fine Art Gallery, 4 th Floor.
THE LARGEST ASSORTMENT FOR YEARS!
Tweed Overcoats
Traditional Tweed . . . you know its hard-wearing
qualities . . . how it retains its cut and
smartness year in, year out . . . you know its adequate
warmth .. . . and when you’ve seen our
wonderful range of single and double-breasted Coats
in all the latest shades and designs, you’ll know
you’re getting real value. From £4/14/6 to £lO/13/-.
SPORTS COATS
op Hand Woven "Jaray”
at 89/6
Warm and comfortable? Yes! And that’s not all!
Man-tailored, they’re available in
Grey, Fawn and Olive, in Check or Herringbone designs.
Sizes 4 to 8, including one-quarter and half sizes. 89/6.
n
t
/ ji
v.
w
m
m
m
m
E
I
O
||M
%
MM
illfP
2
m
m
m
M
il
i
IP
m
W,.
iiii
mm
m
M
m.
Mm
ms
mm
llillll
imm
u
'
m
m
m
%
VW'j
mi i
Ci//w
r *
EXPERTLY CUT!
Boys’ All Wool Tweeds
Ideal for winter months! All Wool Tweed Overcoats in
Herringbone and Overcheck designs made in double-breaster
style for lads 8 to 13. Waist fitting with wide, square
shoulders. Shades of Grey, Fawn, Brown. 46/-, 53/-, 55/-.
For little chaps one to seven years, double-breasters
with half belt, inverted pleat at back.
Donegal Tweeds in Fawn, Grey and Green. 38/-.
Brush Wool Tweeds in Brown, Fawn. 37/-.
All Wool Coating, Brown, Fawn. 36/-.
Junior Centre—First Floor, George Street.
MEN’S COATS—GROUND FLOOR, GEORGE STREET. M 2401, BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


I
m
m
■
m
m
f vj&ssMm
A
1
9 ■
i
M m
M
I
Xi
\r
mm.
kgf
■
K*
X-
m
~ ■ -v**** - - -
I WS
■
.
iiS
m
■ : : . '. .
*: S
1
mm
m
M
mm
m
r:V X-
There can be no good
clothes without good cloth.
All the tailoring skill in the
world cannot make a satis-
factory suit unless the
foundation, the CLOTH,
is right,
Vicarfi Worsteds are
fabrics you can trust in
every way. They are
woven from the finest
virgin wool in patterns
that conform to all the
canons of good form. If
you choose Vicars Wor-
steds, your tailor can give
you the kind of clothes you
want.
JOM VICARS & CO. PTY. LIMITED, MARRICKVILLE,
MANUFACTURERS OF QUALITY CLOTH FOR MEN
N.S.W.
- 4TTB


The Bulletin
Vol 70—No. 3607
Wednesday, March 30, 1949
“SINGING THE SAME SAD THING.”
“What are the wild waves saying,
Sister, the whole day long?”
— Acknowledgments to Dickens and Carpenter .


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICp: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House. 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.Q. ). Wellington.
THE HAUNTED A.L.P.
The position of the so-called Austra-
lian “Labor” Party daily becomes more
curious in regard to Communism, and
more and more disquieting when read
in the light of some of the Prime
Minister’s own utterances and his easy
tolerance, expressed in Parliament, of the
insurrectionary creed:
Communism is a political rash which is
quite foreign to the principles of the Labor
movement, The Communists have adopted
a political philosophy, a sort of foreign
political religion, which leads them to *
believe that through international effort, or
by the emulation of the Russians, they can
bring about a better state of affairs m the
world. We do not believe that.
This was followed by an admission
that, as seen in the Russian manifesta-
tions, which Australian Comrades seek to
emulate. Communism is “only another
version of Nazism,”
Mr. Chifley recently again attacked the
question in a speech replying to Mr.
Spender, and asked; “Could Communism
flourish in Europe if the people were con-
tented, and well-fed and enjoying decent
living conditions? No.” Given those
conditions (he said) Communism could
not find a footing anywhere.
It was certainly not poverty and hunger
which developed it in Australia. During
the period it has festered here into a
great national ulcer this country has been
the best-fed and most leisured community
in the world. But Communism has
flourished in it because-the Communists
found shelter in the “Labor” party, and
have been able to collect vast amounts of
money from the unions which are an
integral part of the “Labor” party, many
of whose leaders so glibly disavow them,
but who themselves were at least half-
Communists or Communist-supporters in
days not so long gone by. Communists
could not have gained such a foothold if
“Labor” Governments had cared or dared
to interfere with the growth of Com-
munism in the public services and in the
key trade-unions.
Canberra “Labor” has actually en-
couraged the spread of Communism by
allowing members of the Communist
central committee to be elected to Gov-
ernmental bodies closely associated with
defence, like the Stevedoring Commis-
sion, and provided rich fees for them to
keep them prosperous and happy while
they propagate their “foreign political
religion” from a position of authority.
While Mr. Chifley was saying that “the
Labor party is the Labor party. It has
no affiliation with any other party, and ‘no
other party can be a member of it”—
that was on November 4 last —the Feder-
ated Ironworkers’ Association was giving
the lie to every word he uttered, it being
a body with a wholly Communist execu-
tive.
The Ironworkers’ Association was, in-
deed, considering at that moment a reso-
lution which was approved for trans-
mission to the next annual conference:
In view of the consistent attacks being
made on this union by the State [Queens-
land] executive of the Australian Labor
party, the opposition being shown to the
campaigns for increased wages conducted
by the union, the disruptive activity of the
A.L.P. industrial groups and increased
affiliation fees being aemanded by the
A.L.P. this council believes that;* —
1. Automatic affiliation of the union on
its full membership to the A.L.P. is no
longer justified.
And the council . recommended that
members be allowed to nominate that
their political levies should in future
be paid' either to the AX.P. or to the
Communist party—each being tolerable
in its sight—but not, of course, to the
Liberal or Country party.
How many more Communist unions
are there in the same relationship of
“automatic affiliation” with the A.L.P.
from which Mr, Chifley and his Ministers
draw their authority? And how many of
his Ministers and associates are there who
are not only complacent but actually
satisfied with the position?
Despite the fact that Mr. Chifley says
“Labor” has no affiliation with any other
party and that no member of any other
party can be a member of it, here is a
.definite instance in which a Communist
organisation, which takes its policy from
the Communist party, is, and has been all
along, a part of the political “Labor”
party; yet Mr. Chifley has shown no ob-
jection to drawing funds from it, though
its habits are allegedly “quite foreign
to the principles of the Labor movement,
and it is seeking to emulate another
version of Nazism.”
Its delegates are not prevented from
attending the A.L.P.’s conferences and
helping to make its policies, though its
leader has told the Australian workers
that they may have to “take arms in their
hands” to gain their objectives, and dur-
ing the war shouted that his body
“made strikes its business,” that he
“hoped Hitler would defeat the scabs of
Downing-street,” and that “Australia
could be at least as good a country as the
Soviet Union, provided it had a Govern-
ment of a similar character to that of the
Soviet Government.”
What has Mr. Chifley got to say about
statements such as this by the rulers of
sections of his Australian “Labor”'party?
Apparently nothing. He did not even
have anything to say to Mr. Ward when
he declared, a little before the 1946 elec-
tions, that Australia “should begin to
think along Soviet lines,” , He did not
protest when the Communist party pro-
vided half the committee which fought
for Dr. Evatt’s “Fourteen Points” refer-
endum in Sydney in 1944. He has not
chided Mr. Holloway—who ranks in the
Ministry directly after the Prime Min-
ister and Deputy-Prime Minister —for
having, as Acting Attorney-General of
the Commonwealth, declared:
If I were to permit myself to be drawn
• into a philosophical discussion, I could
show that every aim of the Communist
movement throughout the world is based
on the teachings of Christ.
The relationship between the Com-
munist party and Mr. Chifley’s A.L.P. is
certainly peculiar. Members of both
parties seem to flit from sphere to sphere
with the greatest ease and freedom.
The matter has been brought into
prominence by a conference of the “in-
dustrial groups of the Labor party” in
Sydney a week ago, at which delegates,
headed by Mr. T. Junor, of the Tram-
ways’ Union, denounced Communism.
Mr. Junor told how the agents of Moscow
strove “for a discontented and rebellious
community.... .they breed and thrive on
human misery, they are pledged to blood-
shed and revolution. At this moment
they are spilling blood in Greece, Buraia,
China and India—countries dangerously
close to Australia.”
Then he quoted Comrade Thornton as
saying that “the policy of the Iron-
workers’ union” —“automatically affili-
ated with the A.L.P.,” of course—“is de-
cided in consultation with the leaders of
the' Communist party”; that “the great
achievements of that union in the last
few years should be credited to the Com-
munist party,” and that the “same thing
in many ways applies to the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, the Miners’ Federa-
tion and the Seamen’s Union and soon
will apply to many other unions, such as
the Amalgamated Engineers, the Austra-
lian Railways Union and so on.”
What the conference thought about the
position was shown by the resolution,
which states unequivocally that Com-
munism “seeks the destruction of the Aus-
tralian way of living and the destruction
of industrial standards and workshop
practices, endeavors to stifle free speech
and free assembly,” and that “the sole
purpose of Communism is aimed at set-
ting-up of a dictatorship in Australia
similar to that in Russia for the advance-
ment of imperialist expansion of the Red
dictatorship.”
But what has Mr. Chifley to say to all
this? If he is not prepared to act, at least
let him tell the country how much his
party depends on Communist-led unions,
how much it has received in the last three
years from unions controlled by Com-
munists, how many of his own members
and A.L.P. executive officers have in the
past actively adopted and promoted the
very ideas at which they now hold up
their hands in pious horror, and to check
which they demand the severest measures.
Mr. Chifley, like so many “Labor”
politicians, has at times —such as during
the heat of the Bank-Grab uproar—
shown himself to be an arrant humbug;
and he is bound to reap the reward that
comes in time to most persistent hum-
bugs. Day by day living ghosts rise out
of the past (and near-past) to haunt and
mock him. In the matter of Communism
the Prime Minister appears to be about to
get what has been coming to him for a
long, long time.
A "Kiss of Death."
That elusive bird, Our Foreign Policy,
is due for another change of plumage in
mid-flight—its greatest and perhaps final
metamorphosis. While Dr. Evatt flits
across the Atlantic to shed a tear with
secretary Lie over the “betrayal” of
U.N.O. —one grief-stricken official de-
scribes the announcement of the Atlantic
Pact as “the kiss of death”—Mr. Chifley
in Australia hails that pact as an imple-
ment for better assurance of the mainten-
ance of peace.
Events have been moving too rapidly
for O.F.P. But four short months have
passed since the United States suggested
the enlargement of the European Western
Union for self-defence against Soviet
aggression by the inclusion of all Atlantic
Powers. The work of drafting the new
treaty began as soon as Mr. Truman was
elected President of the United States.
As recently as last month Dr. Evatt,
expounding foreign affairs in Parliament
at Canberra, turned a blind eye to the
most important international event since
the end of World War IJ —an event which
grew out of the complete and obvious
failure of U.N.O. to assert any authority
anywhere. He told the Australian people
that there was no course for its Govern-
ment to pursue but to cling to the United
Nations, a body (he said) not only gain-
ing influence for peace, but doing so with-
out the designed force to back that in-
fluence.
In fact, the so-called “United Nations”
has been riven with dissension ever since
it came into being, its original purpose
(that of a grand alliance against totali-
tarian aggression) forgotten, and any hope
of its usefulness for peace completely
scuppered when the Soviet blockaded
Berlin nine months ago. Its title is a de-
lusion and a snare, and its whole costly,
time-wasting pretence of functioning has
been challenged by leading British and
American delegates as aggravating rather
than alleviating the differences between
East and West. The Atlantic Pact has
been created because of the need for some
firm bond among the nations to assure
Hhat the principles of the Charter shall be
upheld, if necessary by force, against an
aggressor. The U.N.O. Charter, anyhow,
was nothing but an adaptation of the
Atlantic Charter composed by Mr.
Churchill and President Roosevelt, and
that was always about as intelligible to
the successors of Lenin as it would have
been to Ghengis Khan. The West has
come to learn that the Atlantic Charter
demands primarily an Atlantic Pact.
The pact means an end to Dr. Evatt’s
dream of a new universe with himself as
its primum mobile. He and Mr. Secre-
tary Lie and their enormous staffs in
cushy jobs at Lake Success —they took
everything for granted, these fellows—-
don’t like it. But they had best abandon
this stuff about a “kiss of death” sealing
the fate of the comatose body of U.N.0.;
nor is the choice of a rather blasphemous
metaphor relieved by any capacity to dis-
tinguish the real Judas in the case.
Moscow alone brought about the
Atlantic Pact, just as it brought about
the Marshall Aid Plan and the Western
Union which were its forerunners.
Twelve months ago Mr. St. Laurent of
Canada, then Secretary for Foreign
Affairs and now Prime Minister of that
Dominion, declared that Russian obstruc-
tion had made confidence in U.N.O. im-
possible, and urged that nations prepared
to accept responsibility for collective de-
fence of the peace against aggression
should associate themselves for that pur-
pose in a treaty “following the same lines
as the United Nations Charter.” The
London “Spectator” crystallised the re-
sponse in Britain and for all the British
peoples:—
The veto on Security Council decisions
had to be included (at the San Francisco
conference) if Russia was to be brought
into the organisation at a11....1t conferred
on her a power, which she has exercised
with zest, of stultifying the whole work of
the Council. Her strategy has been
methodical and deliberate. She stultifies
the United Nations because she wants to
stultify it. The United Nations stands for
order, understanding and prosperity—for
everything, in short, fatal to the spread of
Communism, which battens on disorder,
dissension and penury A situation that
can no longer be tolerated exists. The
Charter cannot be revised, for Russia can
veto that. All that is left is for the nations
that believe in the principles of the Charter
to bind themselves by a separate treaty to
take, when necessary, that united action
which they cannot take under the Charter
and in the name of the United Nations.
That is precisely the purpose of the
Atlantic Pact, and with its operation
U.N.O. will be superfluous. Even some
commentators from U.N.O. headquarters
support that view. As American press
cables quote them:
No amount of political juggling can
conceal the fact that the world is split into
two hostile camps. The chance of recon-
ciliation within U.N.O. had been shown
in the last three years to be virtually nil.
There is a familiar ring here from the
last years of the old League of Nations.
In 1935, when Mussolini was preparing to
attack Abyssinia, a member of the League
introduced on Italy’s own sponsorship,
Britain was carrying the chief burden
of the League as America has in this later
day been carrying that of U.N.O. The
question for the League was whether com-
bined sanctions should be enforced
against Italy to restrain the threatened
aggression. The British Foreign Secre-
tary warned all concerned that if collec-
tive security were abandoned the League
was dead.
If the League were to become so feeble
and futile as to have no influence upon the
course of events, the old system of alliances
must necessarily reappear.
There was no United States influence
to be flung into the scales then, for the
United States was never a member of the
League. But the lesson was not lost on
Washington. If this reformed League
called U.N.O.' will not do the job, then
the job must be done without it. The
Atlantic Powers cannot save Europe, and
world peace, without co-operation to the
limit of their resources. What has yet to
be seen is whether the concerted stand
which might, if organised, have restrained
the Axis Powers in 1935 will restrain
Russia now. Clearly nothing else will.
World wars were averted for a century
after Napoleon by means of the “balance
of power” in Europe; and that system
was at least more effective than what
Lloyd George described (talking of his
dealings with De Valera) as “trying to
pick up quicksilver with a fork.” The
aim of the Soviet to dominate Europe is
the same as that pursued by Hitler, the
Kaiser, Napoleon and Louis XIV in their
time. Always the head trading Power—
hitherto Britain, now U.S.A. —has had to
combat such domination. Like the
Nazis before them (as General Smuts
has reminded the Western peoples) “so
long as the Russians think they can play
their sinister game without risk of real
war, they will continue the new technique
of aggression—with results that can be
as devastating to human freedom as war
itself.”
Between the Atlantic Pact with its in-
cidental subsidisation, by America, of
European economic and military re-
covery, and the British Government’s sub-
sidisation a century and a half ago of the
European States resisting aggression
under Napoleon, there is a difference only
of time and setting. Whether Or not the
Chifley Government joins and assists the
pact—and Mr. Chifley has welcomed it —
affects the reality not at all, but only the
prospect of friends for Australia against
emergency. It seems pretty clear that
Lord Listowel’s explanations in Canberra
about the business of the Prime Ministers’
conference sought by London were meant
to test whether' the Southern Dominions
will come into the Atlantic Pact with
Britain or stay outside. The “Pacific
Pact” proposal looks like moonshine,
especially if Washington objects that the
seas are, like peace itself, one and indi-
visible.
Traveller's Tale.
Whether the members of the Parliamen-
tary delegation which visited Japan last
year shook hands with the Emperor of
their own volition or under orders or
whether the action was merely an in-
voluntary response to the seductive
atmosphere of Nippon are questions that
will probably never be answered to the
satisfaction of all concerned. But that
ceremony was merely an incident of the
trip, and must not be allowed to obscure
the fact that some of the trippers at least
learnt something during their visit to
Japan. One who definitely came back
wiser than he went away is Senator
Cooke, one of the Westralian “Labor”
sextet. During the debate on the Ship-
ping Bill he was good enough to impart
to his fellow-Senators a morsel of his
newly-gained knowledge.
After mentioning the promise of the
Fisher Ministry, in 1910, to establish a
Government shipping service, he went
on:
It is interesting to recall that about the
same time an English engineer named
William Adams was responsible for the
establishment of the shipbuilding industry
in Japan. Indeed I was in Japan recently
when a memorial was unveiled to his
memory... .We have the spectacle, in
retrospect, of Australia’s great statesman,
Andrew Fisher, and William Adams,
the English shipbuilding engineer, simul-
taneously advocating the establishment of
the shipbuilding industry in Australia and
Japan respectively.
The moral the Senator drew was that
although the Japanese Government had
developed “its naval strength as a result
of Adams’s initial effort,” anti-“ Labor”
Governments in Australia had let Fisher
down. The standard of repartee in the
Senate is not what it used to be or
someone might have pointed out that
the Japanese fleet totally destroyed a
Russian squadron in the biggest naval
battle since Trafalgar six years' before
Adams allegedly laid its foundations,
tailing that, an Opposition Senator might
at least have inquired whether the man
Cooke had in mind was the celebrated
Bill Adams who claimed to have won the
Battle of Waterloo. No one did so, and
into “Hansard” went the Senator’s little
snippet of history unchallenged.
It is a pity Senator Cooke did not
pursue further research into the career of
William Adams, “the English shipbuild-
ing engineer.” Had he done so he might
have discovered that there is a street in
Yedo named after the old boy and that
the citizenry keep his memory green by
an annual celebration every June 15.
They have been doing so for more than
300 years. Adams arrived in Japan m
1600. He died 20 years later, just a cen-
tury and a half before Senator Cookes
nephew Jim (don’t mind the spelling)
discovered Botany Bay.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Socialism Loses Its Tinsel.
The presence of Mr. Sidney Holland,
leader of the Maoriland Parliamentary
Opposition, in Australia is a reminder
that New Zealand is bound to face an
election this year—the Maoriland Gov-
ernment hopes to get it over before Aus-
tralian “Labor” goes to the poll with
bank-nationalisation, socialisation, “Jock”
Garden and Mr. Calwell on its back.
Mr. Fraser’s problems are not so easy
as those of Mr. Chifley. He has been in
office longer—since 1935 —and he has
seen a majority more overwhelming than
that at Canberra dwindle until it depends
on a few Maoris. After “Labor’s” first
devastating victory the Opposition could
count only 19 heads. Mr. Fraser has
since seen a strong Liberal-Country party
grow up in the Dominion, well organised
in nearly 1300 branches and well financed
by individual subscriptions.
While the political associations of N.Z.
Labor with Communism have never been
so close as they are in Australia, where
the Communist party has been the train-
ing-ground for “Labor” success —as a
dozen persons in high office today could
attest if they wanted to —the party has
not been behind-hand in electoral bribery
and socialisation rackets.
But it has given up, in the face of
disastrous experience, the policy of Gov-
ernment ownership of all land, and is re-
turning to a freehold policy. It has
learned that, generally, socialisation-by-
acquisition has grave disadvantages, for
at a certain stage those who favor
socialisation discover that what is being
done is being done to them in person and
not merely to a few hated capitalists.
Socialist policy in Maoriland, therefore,
has reverted to socialisation by electoral
bribery and regulation. Thus, as in Aus-
tralia, there is a temporary class of civil
servants who can be frightened with the
thought that a Liberal Government may
economise at their expense. A class of
import-licence owners has been created —
capitalists who, like the owners of taxi-
plates in Sydney, are not in favor of free
enterprise, since its establishment would
deprive them of a privilege with a high
capital value. There are the recipients
of family-endowment who get 10s. a week
per child for nothing. There are Govern-
ment tenants who get houses at half the
economic rent. And there are the Maoris
who are paid out of Government funds
enough to sustain them without having to
work, and who have special privileges in
regard to land sales denied to mere whites,
Maoris being free from marginal ceilings.
The Maoriland election is obviously
going to be a hard fight and fairly equal,
since the Government’s resources for poli-
tical bribery are now limited. Mr. Fraser
might import some more cheap socialised
wheat from Australia at the expense of
the Australian grower and taxpayer,
though Maorilanders are indignant that
the consignment so thoughtfully sent be-
fore last election turned out to be full of
saffron thistle. They might jerrymander
the country electorates. They might re-
organise the socialised medical scheme,
which is making a new race of millionaire
doctors —especially among the refugee
types which Mr. Chifley contemplates im-
porting to discipline the local variety here.
Again, they might reduce the voting age
to 18 years, or they might turn the Cook
Islands and other native territories into
electorates, endow all the inhabitants with
suitable perks and so buy further native
support.
But the salient fact about the position
is that after 15 years of office a socialist
Government is hard put to to keep in
office even by the skin of its teeth. Like
all other confidence-tricks, socialism is in
time found out.
The Law Defied.
This community has become exasperated
with industrial strikes, political strikes,
strikes against awards, strikes ordered for
no‘reason the strikers can fathom; and
now come strikes ordered by Moscow’s
fifth-column to assert the right of Com-
munists to be above any reach of the
law.
One of the chief members of the Com-
munist politburo in this land has been
summonsed on a serious charge. His
Communist colleagues, who have by one
means or another obtained dominance in
the administration of key unions, forth-
with threatened to lay industry idle unless
the Federal Government’s prosecution
was abandoned.
Another lesser light in the fifth-column,
arrested for an alleged offence in Mel-
bourne streets, called on all union leaders
to strike in protest against the prosecu-
tion and to demonstrate in attempt to
overawe the magistrate. What is this
but flagrant contempt of court?
It is that, of course, but it is also some-
thing much worse. It is, with the other
case, outright defiance of the authority
of the law in every respect; and those
trade-unions which endorse it will yet rue
the day. The provocation to civil riot
is obvious, and is exemplified in the deter-
mination of the ex-servicemen in Shep-
parton, Victoria, that an apologist for
the Soviet system, who had booked a
hall in their town to protest against what
he impudently complained of as denial
of the right of free speech, should not
be heard. They thronged the hall’s pre-
cincts, created every loud counter-noise
they could, drowned his meeting,
and pelted him off the platform with
rotten tomatoes.
That was comparatively good-humored
counter-action. But the overwhelming
unanimity of the resentment it expressed
contains all the seeds of civil violence if
the law is allowed to be defied with im-
punity. The strikes ordered by Com-
munists to assert their claim to be above
the law are a supreme expression of such
defiance.
The Chifley Government has looked
on complacently for long enough. It has
started using the Crimes Act, and in the
militants’ eyes has earned hanging for
even that little bit of self-assertion. It
may as well now go the whole hog and
regain what self-respect it can, however
late in the day.
What Stopped Blair Athol?
One clause in Premier Hanlon’s statement
to the Queensland Parliament on Blair
Athol (B. 23/3/,’49) opens up a pretty
wide field for speculation. “Following
the British Government’s nationalisation
of electricity undertakings,” said Mr.
Hanlon, “the corporation found itself
without the resources it had expected
would be available to begin Blair Athol
“TO SET BEFORE THE KING?”
“British Cabinet is reported to have drawn up a scheme, to be presented to a
Commonwealth conference of Prime Ministers, which aims to give the British Commonwealth
a ‘three-tier’ structure —the United Kingdom, with the King at its head, those Dominions still
swearing allegiance to the King, and ‘republican units’ not recognising the King."
“It's not exactly a dainty dish, but I'm sure Dr. Evatt mil be interested in the
recipe, especially for the bottom layer.”
development.” The corporation. Electric
Supply Corporation (Overseas), Ltd., ap-
peared on the scene about two years ago
and freely stated that it proposed to
develop the vast Blair Athol coal deposits,
build a railway to the coast, build col-
liers, establish a port, turn Blair Athol
village into a young city, and so forth,
rough estimates of the cost running to
nearly £2O million.
Few doubted then that E.S.C. meant
business, or that it had the means and
the ability to get the scheme going. It
was popularly supposed that the advent
of a Socialist Government in Britain,
evidently determined to socialise coal-
mines, railways, steelworks and other
things, was driving British capital abroad,
and that, since Europe and Asia were no
longer fields for British investment, the
Dominions were to benefit. It was also
hinted that British interest in Blair Athol
was part of a general plan of Empire
development and defence.
What happened? Did E.S.C. find that
socialisation of electricity in Britain de-
prived it of machinery and plant as well
as the profits from which it hoped to
finance Blair Athol? Did it suddenly
come to appreciate the socialisation plans
of the Australian Government, the
domination of Communists over Austra-
lian industrial affairs, and the cursed
habit of Australian politics of interfering
with and hampering big enterprises at
every turn? How much notice did it
take of the declaration of the Communist-
run Miners’ Federation that it wouldn’t
allow opencut coalgetting without its
permission? To what extent was it in-
fluenced by the general “go-slow” in this
country, the inter-union war between the
Miners’ ‘Federation and the A.W.U., and
the Commonwealth Government’s ob-
vious weakness in the face of Communist
threats? Whatever the answers to these
questions, it is hard to believe that E.S.C.
didn’t have a pretty fair idea of its
“resources to begin Blair Athol develop-
ment” when it announced the scheme.
Mr, Hanlon didn’t say so, but it’s pos-
sible that he suffered a shock when he
reached London last December and
learned the truth from the E.S.C. As
told to Parliament this month, the posi-
tion appears to have slipped badly, for
it seems no start will be made at Blair*
Athol until a group of London companies
interested is satisfied with “investiga-
tions,” which, according to Mr. Hanlon,
are now being made. Powell-Duffryn
have completed their field survey of
Queensland coal resources, and all but
one of the technical team are returning to
Britain. A report may be handed to Mr.
Hanlon about Jply.
Latin Union in Europe.
Negotiations for the Customs union be-
tween France and Italy—the treaty for
which was signed in Paris last week-end
—were conducted under considerable
pressure all last year.
Not till September did the Franco-
Italian Commission announce “agree-
ment in principle” in Rome. It re-
assembled in Paris last January for the
final stages and for readier consultation
with the American director of the Euro-
pean Recovery Programme, whose ap-
proval is essential. A Customs union like
that of the Benelux countries is to come
into force on January 1, 1950, abolish-
ing all internal tariffs, and within six
years this is to be transformed into a
general economic fusion.
Important details are joint agricul-
tural and industrial plans, free transfers
of labor (mostly from Italy to France)
and reorganisation and division of the
wine export trade, motor-car manufac-
ture and the steel trades generally.
Wine-trade competition presented an
acute problem, and for a time threatened
a rupture of negotiations. Italian wines
were lower-priced than French. But the
Italians need French technique to guide
them in the standardisation for export
of the excessive variation of Italian wines
(there are about 2000 marketable brands),
and the French vineyards badly need
labor, surplus in Italy.
These details have also been revealed
in London re-
supplies of olives from French North
Africa would help the Italian oil industry,
whose export trade now depends upon
assurance of foreign supplies.
In motor-cars Italy has specialised in
racing types, France in utilitarian lines,
and these will be developed in common.
Italy wants French steel ingots; France
wants coke, which Italian coking plants
(not working at full capacity) can supply.
The Marshall plan helps this exchange by
supplying the required coal to Italy which ,
France cannot send.
There is to be a mixed permanent com-
mittee “to harmonise and co-ordinate ship-
building.”
The interest of the E.R.P. directorate
in the plans is the enormous saving
which will be made in otherwise com-
petitive outlays for industrial plants, land-
reclamation and internal communication
services. Development of Alpine hydro-
electric power-stations is also a com-
pelling joint interest.
No doubt the enthusiasm gradually
developed in the negotiators for this
Franco-Italian union has prompted the
recent urging by France of more whole-
hearted British participation in a wider
Western European union,
Bourke May See Us Yet.
A little over a week ago both Mr.]
Chifley and Mr. Dedman let it out in'
Canberra that their “full-employment”
policy wouldn’t work unless based on in-
dustrial conscription. The way in which
the thing was put, first by Mr. Chifley
and then by Mr. Dedman, is worth study-
ing.
Mr. Chifley told a Press conference that
ho had warned a “Labor” conference re-
cently “that transfers of labor might be
necessary as production of many
commodities overtook demand the
economy would provide jobs for every-
one, but not necessarily the job the in-
dividual might prefer.” This, he then
elaborated, did not imply any compulsory
manpower system, but an extension of the
Commonwealth Employment Service in
“an emergency.”
Just in case anyone might be lulled by
these carefully-arranged sentences, listen
to Mr. Dedman. As the Minister for
Post-war Reconstruction he is studying,
or his offsiders are studying for him,
“labor-transferability.” The “research”
is being made by the C.E.S., which, said
Mr. Dedman, is the “post-war version of
manpower control.”
During the war; an official of that same
manpower control attained notoriety
when he informed a patriotic woman “I
could send you to Bourke if I liked.”
Does any sensible unionist, or anyone
else for that matter capable of seeing a
hole in a ladder, suppose that the
sonorous and deliberately obscure
language used by Chifley and Dedman
means anything other than Industrial con-
scription?
The New Guinea Affair.
J. R. Halligan, secretary of the Depart-
ment of External Territories under E. J.
Ward, was a witness at the New Guinea
timber inquiry in Sydney last week. He
said that in July, 1945, in consequence of
a memorandum from the Minister, which
he construed as a direction for the sanc-
tioning of a Ray Parer visit to New
Guinea, he gave his approval for the visit.
Nothing had then been said about a
timber licence—only mining leases were
mentioned —nor was witness aware why
“Mr. Ward should regard the application
as special.” No matter how often it was
refused (this in reply to Justice Ligert-
wood) “it seemed to bob up again,”
thoujth there was “nothing special or
exceptional in the Minister’s support for
it.**
According to Halligan, a Ward letter
dated January 25, 1947, informing Parer
that his application for a timber licence
could not be granted was never sent.
Why, he [Halligan] didn’t know, but
Ward had asked him to explain the posi-
tion to Garden, who, he told Halligan,
was “pressing him all the time.” It looked
as though Ward was interesting himself
in the matter on Garden’s behalf, and
that Garden was applying pressure to
Ward | but the latter issued no timber-
licence recommendation to Parer or any-
one else.
The elder Garden, recalled to the box,
diverged from the matter in hand to dis-
course at large on celebrities. He declared
that he and Dr. Evatt had been “close
friends for 25 years,” and that Mr. Chifley
“would not be Prime Minister today but
for me; he was outside the party till I
asked him to come in.” As for the
Garden Communist connections, he
formed the Australian Communist party
in 1919, became a member of the Com-
munist International executive in 1922,
and was expelled because he would not
renounce his religion. He repeated that
he “took £5OOO into Ward’s office on
December 3, 1945,” and was “told to
give the money to Bill Urquhart” ; but of
Bill he gave a glowing account (“able,
capable and honest”), and he had never
suggested to his counsel that Urquhart
received £45 a time for manpower re-
leases. Nor did it ever come from him
that Mrs. Ward had won £ll,OOO at
Randwick on a horse called Precise ; actu-
ally the lady had wagered £lO to £2O on
the animal at 16 to 1, and he himself had
shared in the tip in a small way. He
had formed the habit of visiting the Ward
house “at week-ends and on Friday
nights.”
Replying to his son Harcourt, Garden
alleged that a false balance-sheet had
been placed before the “Labor” elec-
torate council in Ward’s constituency by
way of concealing a secret fund —he him-
self was one of the trustees, the others
being Connolly and Green —and it was
also mentioned that Mrs. Ward had in-
terested herself in police inquiries into a
1945 report of the robbery of a large
amount —£3000 was the lowest sum men-
tioned —from a house at Auburn, To
the royal commissioner Garden said he
would have been willing to go to jail
to protect Ward had the Minister told
the truth.
It looks as if the taking of evidence
will not be completed before Easter.


T
6434 E-R
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVENA
lU ■***
CARRERAS LIMITED OYER.ISO YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
$BB :
POLITICAL POINTS
All the streamlined conciliators in the
world won’t be able to bring about in-
dustrial peace if the current outbreak of
political strikes is permitted to continue.
In Port Adelaide a Seamen’s Union
official was arrested for “failing to move
on” —he had been addressing an un-
authorised street meeting. On the day
he appeared in Court his union called
a stoppage of work, with the result that
the sailing of two vessels had to be post-
poned. A day or so later 7000 water-
fronj workers in Melbourne took similar
action when the secretary of the Ship
Painters and Dockers’ Union was charged
with having broken a city council by-law
by distributing handbills in Collins-street.
The charges may seem trivial, but the
whole business is part of a plan. Red
union bosses are deliberately inviting
arrest by flouting the law. Once the
charge is laid the 24-hour protest strike is
a matter of course; behind it is the
desire to bring the law and the courts
into contempt. Monday’s Sharkey strikes
were another example, though they lacked
the unanimity their instigators hoped for.
Menzies scored a point at West Mait-
land when the cry of “Pig-iron Bob”
floated up to him. He replied that he
had some affection for the term, and re-
called that when it was first applied to him
by the Communists “the West Australian
Labor Government had contracted to sell
millions of tons of iron-ore from Yampi
Sound to a Japanese company.” He could
have gone further and pointed out that
when the Lyons Government stopped
that deal by clapping an embargo on the
export of iron-ore Federal “Labor”
members, including Opposition-leader
Curtin, protested against the embargo.
“Fixer” Ashley is going to spend a
week among the coalminers early in
April. He will “address as many meet-
ings as possible.” It’s a drastic step, but
the miners have brought it on themselves.
London “Daily Express” has discovered
that the Attlees have dropped their plan
of nationalising the sugar industry »be-
cause it would involve taking over most
of the West Indies rum distilleries, and
“the temperance group in the Labor party
is strongly against the State control of
rum.” It isn’t the temperance group in the
A.L.P. that opposes nationalisation of
breweries.
At the Communist treason trial in
America the defence lawyers asked, un-
successfully, for a new trial on the
grounds that the Judge was showing hos-
tility to Communism by “scratching his
head, pulling his ear and by his facial ex-
pressions.” The Judge replied “If you
think I am going to sit here like a lump
on a log' during this trial you’re mis-
taken.” It is a long way from New York
to Brisbane, but in the Queensland capi-
tal on the same day another defence
lawyer was " alleging bias against a
magistrate. Mr. Mansell, S.M., at the
trial of the first of a batch of tramway-
men charged with refusing to obey an
order of the Industrial Court, said “I
think the best thing you union men can
do is to consider whether you can apply
some commonsense instead of nonsense
in this case.” Counsel objected that the
remark showed bias “either conscious or
unconscious.” Mr. Mansell refuted this
and the case went on. The verdict of
guilty is to be appealed against; a cart-
load of similar charges wait on the
appeal.
Evidence in the Ward inquiry, accord-
ing to Sydney “Herald”:
Recalled, Garden said the Communist-
party ticket in his drawer was for 1923,
the year he was expelled from the party.
“Once you are expelled from the Com-
munist party you can’t get back in,”
Garden said.
But apparently expulsion was no bar
to his standing for Parliament as an
official Communist candidate in 1925, re-
maining secretary of the Australian
branch of the Red International (offshoot
of the Comintern) till the early ’thirties
and editing the “Pan-Pacific Worker,” an
official Communist journal, for years
after his expulsion.
Down at Albury on the Murray they
set up a community college which was
supposed to teach the local adult the
things he should know. But somehow
the local adult wasn’t at all keen on going
to the college, and a lot of Albury people
were accused of being apathetic about
the benefits of education. One who was
most vocal about the lack of support for
the college was its head, a Mr. Gollan.
This Mr. Gollan, assistant-headmaster of
Albury High School, is also a Com-
munist. The latter distinction is what
keeps Albury people away from Mr.
Gollan’s college and, if they could, a lot
of them would keep their children away
from Mr, Gollan’s High School. Country
people have a common hatred —Com*-
munists and snakes.
On Monday morning Sydney’s Martin-
place was under the police eye as some
400 or 500 congregated outside the
Special Federal Court in the hope of
seeing “a show,” the principal performer
being L. L. Sharkey, general secretary
of the Communist party, due at the
court to face two charges of uttering and
publishing seditious words, alleged
to be “If, in pursuit of aggres-
sors, Soviet troops came to Aus-
tralia, the Australian working-class
would welcome them in the way they were
welcomed by the people of Europe.” At
least 80 p.c. of the crowd were merely
onlookers, about 20 p.c. being Comrades
and “the girls nobody asks to dance.”
Sharkey got some half-hearted clapping
when he went in, some more when he
came out—commencement of the hear-
ing had been postponed till 11.30 a.m.
Latest moves in disintegration of the
British Empire—and even of the British
Commonwealth —are being pursued in a
strange hurry. The Prime Ministers of
the elder Dominions have been sum-
moned by special messengers to a con-
ference in London next month, and the
proposals now are for classes or “tiers”
of British subjects; (1) Those of the
United Kingdom, (2) those of “certain
Dominions” who will “still swear
allegiance,” and (3) those who would like
to remain members but without “recog-
nising the King.” Those would be “re-
publican units,” Southern Ireland and
India, for instance, and would belong
through pacts with other members. The
spectacle of Eire making a pact with
Ulster for the purpose of retaining for
Eire the benefits of membership of the
Empire without subscription is a divert-
ing prospect.
According to a Coal Board spokesman
Senator Ashley will “explain to the
miners that the nation’s economy depends
on coal production.” Our rulers still
trail clouds of glorious simplicity. Isn’t
it that very knowledge and the sense of
power it gives them that makes the miners
and their Red masters so heedless of the
interests of the rest of the community?
The “Fixer” might get better results if
he told the miners his Government was
considering ways of getting power from
peanuts or by harnessing silkworms.
Tasmanian “Labor” is running a team
of five for the Senate. There are seven
vacancies to be filled, but under Pro-
portional Representation four seats is
the most “Labor” or any other party can
expect to win, so on© of the five must
miss out on the £l5OO a year and privi-
leges. No one wants to be the odd man
out, certainly not Senator McKenna, who
comes last on the alphabetically-arranged
official ticket. Appeals from Canberra
to save the Chifley man from political
extinction fell on deaf ears; no one
stepped forward to offer his place on
the list. Latest suggestion of Tasmanian
A.L.P. is a ballot to decide the order of
the ticket. Apparently “Labor” has not
sufficient faith in the intelligence of the
electors to say “We are putting up five
good men. Vote for them in any order
you like.”
Lud Mayor Disney, of Melbourne,
wants to revive the old traditional
customs of city councils, and as the only
Victorian tradition is the lighting of a
candle at the ballot for lud' mayors so
that councillors on horses can get in from
the confines in time to cast their vote,
he is going to England for information.
One suggestion is a lud mayor’s proces-
sion, and another is plush-fours, or what-
ever they call them, for Bumbles at re-
ceptions. This, it is hoped, will restore
the dignity of the civic office, somewhat
tarnished in a recent bout with orators of
the Left. Melbourne Town Hall is at
present under a ban from militant unions
and can’t even get itself painted.
In a letter to Menzies, the Australian
Trained Nurses’ Association put forward,
presumably in fun, what may be the real
reason for Liberals gaining a preponder-
ance of postal votes. 'Hie ladies said
postal voters were usually people who
had more time than others to listen to
Dedman, Calwell, Haylen and Ward,
hence their Liberal preferences.
Introducing the bill to create 13 more
seats in Queensland, Premier Hanlon
harked back to his old allegation about a
new State in North Queensland. His
Government, he said, would recommend
a new State when the people there could
finance it:
It is hoped that people advocating a new
State in North Queensland measure up to
their responsibilities, because the North is
costing the people of the south-east between
£1,000,000 and £2,000,000 annually.
Then why not give the North its head
and relieve the south-eastcrs of the
burden? ’
Mention was made in the Ward in-
quiry of a robbery in November, 1945,
in which, while a Mrs. Joseph, of
Auburn, was “attending a Cup social at
the home of Mrs. F. M. Forde, wife of
the Minister for the Army,” thieves broke
into her dwelling and “stole £3lOOO in
banknotes and £l5OO in war-savings
certificates.” A detective • said that
“Mrs. Ward was Consoling Mrs. Joseph,
and that there was about £3OOO in
the house when the police searched
it.” Mr. Shand, K.G., said that it was
clear that the robbery, which occurred
a month before Garden said that he
handed ’CVard £5OOO, had no relation to
the inquiry. Nobody has yet answered
the Bulletin’s query at the time of the
robbery as to why a lady so intimate in
Ministerial circles should have kept so
much cash in the home when her Minis-
terial friends were pleading for Victory
Loan subscriptions.; also, why nobody
had told her that it was illegal for any
one person to have more than £250 in
war-savings certificates.
The McGirr Government, with an elec-
tion due next year and with about as
much hope of making good its last elec-
tion promise of 90,000 homes in three
years as it has of getting Caucus to ban
greyhound-racing, has had a sudden rush
of building-plans to the head. Although
it refuses to increase Sydney University’s
annual grant of £125,000 —Melbourne’s
“shop” gets £400,000 —its Education
Minister has announced that five new uni-
versities are to be established, three of
them “technical,” two “academic.” The
Minister in charge of tourist activities also
has a big programme arranged—on paper.
It includes “a modern tourist hotel over-
looking Sydney Harbor” ; several tourist
hotels “at selected sites of historic in-
terest” ; holiday cabin-camps at surf-
beaches and fishing-resorts, “with the
emphasis on low-cost accommodation” ;
and an “Alpine village” near Kosciusko,
capable of feeding 1000 visitors a day,
summer and winter. Anyone who asks
where the materials are coming from
without affecting home-building auto-
matically brands himself as a knocker.
Let the Canberra Socialists disown
Communism as they will, the fact re-
mains that during the life of the present
Parliament there has not been one major
piece of legislation—on shipping, bank-
ing, medicine, broadcasting or what-have-
you—which has not been heartily en-
dorsed by the Comrades.
The Hanlons are amending Queens-
land’s Abattoirs Act “for the purpose of
regulating and controlling the slaughter
of stock for human consumption....
and for other purposes.” Hanlon claims
the bill is in fulfilment of an election
promise to “provide centralised hygienic
killing,” but the Opposition suspects those
“other purposes”— not without cause,
since Collins, the Minister in charge
of the Bill, said that if necessary
the Government would acquire meat-
works, and “it might be necessary for
the Government to buy, kill and even
distribute meat through its own butcher-
shops,” Last time Queensland “Labor”
put on a striped apron it made an un-
holy mess of the venture.
There are still men inside the “Labor”
party with sufficient backbone to speak
their minds and stand up against the
power-drunk tyranny of Canberra dic-
tators. Sheahan, N. S. Wales Minis-
ter for Lands, himself an Old Digger,
has been making a genuine attempt to
find land for ex-servicemen. His com-
plaint is that he finds his efforts ham-
strung by the Dedman touch. At the
week-end he quoted a specific case:
Three years ago the N. S, Wales Govern-
ment approved a plan to acquire Cunnin-
yeuk station (29,000 acres) and subdivide
it into 12 to 16 farms. The Commonwealth
agreed on a basis of 13 farms, but later
insisted on a maximum of seven.
Sheahan said that in order to get
the property settled by soldiers instead of
rabbits he told the Federal Minister he
was prepared to agree to subdivision
on a basis of 10 farms. Dedman “turned
it down flat”:
From the tone of his letter he apparently
considered a State Minister of the Crown
on the level of an office-boy in the service
of the Commonwealth Government.
That sums up fairly accurately the state
of mind of most Federal “Labor”
Ministers. It derives from their social-
ist belief that in them alone resides all
wisdom.
The Socialists are allowing themselves
time for reflection before using their
socialisation waddy on the doctors. The
Act which is meant to knock the profes-
sion over will not be proclaimed for some
time yet—“three, months,” according to
the Brisbane “Courier Mail”; the other
daily papers are less specific.
Another “mimicking Molotov” is being
investigated by the Crown Law authori-
ties —in Westralia this time. His name
is Healy, like that of the N.S.W. Water-
side Red. The name of Healy seems to
qualify its owner for advancement in
Australia’s Moscow clique, so much so
that Queensland’s representative in that
company (bom McCracken) took the
name by adoption.
After listening to the Prime Minister’s
broadcast call for more “adventure in
industry,” the secretary of Brisbane
Chamber of Manufacturers said:
You cannot be venturesome if you have
to go through Government departments
and red-tape.. . .if you have to justify to
some civil servant everything you d 0....
if you have to battle through the Labor
conception that competition in trade ought
to be abolished... .Our biggest handicap
to “adventure” is the Commonwealth
Government’s efforts to spread a spirit of
paternal security—getting the people to look
to the Government for everything.
Audited and found correct, though
whether the Prime Minister heard the
gentleman, and, if he did, took any notice,
is another matter.


ACROSS THE RED-SOIL' PLAINS.


Society
"DON'T IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
V V
“Mac Hoots”: While I am second to
none in my admiration for the pictures
William Dobell has painted, I must say I
find myself increasingly disinclined to join
in the raptures of the Sydney dailies over
the pictures he has not painted. All that
has so far been seen of the remarkable
and brilliant portraits of the Oliviers and
of Mo —which the “Sun” recently
trumpeted in advance—is, unless I am
misinformed, a pencil-sketch of Vivien
Leigh. A more recent “Sun” paragraph,
dealing at least with actual instead of
imaginary paintings, concerns “the finest
private collection of original Dobells in
existence,” owned by Mr. Walter Magnus
and “ranging from studies Dobell made
on the backs of exercise-books to a
superb small oil called ‘King’s Cross
Ragamuffin’ which Dobell has painted
since his Archibald prizewinner of
Margaret Olley.” While I cannot raise
more than a moderate enthusiasm at the
thought of studies on the backs of
exercise-books I don’t doubt that Mr,
Magnus has —among his paintings by
other artists; his two nudes by Dora
Jarret, for instance —some excellent
Dobells; but when the paragraph goes
on, “Some of the best are double-takes,
as each side of a piece of board is painted
with an equally exquisite study” I must
suspect that once again we are confronted
with excessive adulation. Every artist
in the world has painted “double-takes”:
not with the intention of decorating each
side of a piece of board or paper with “an
equally exquisite study,” but because, hav-
ing spoiled one side with a failure, he
tries to do something better on the other.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: There is a famous
summing-up, attributed to Mr. Justice
Maule and said to have been delivered
over a century ago, which often occurs
to me when I read of a case in which the
swearing has been particularly hard and
uncompromising on each side. “Gentle-
men,” said the occupant of the Bench,
addressing a puzzled-looking jury, “you
have heard all the evidence. If you
believe the witnesses for the plaintiff, you
will find a verdict for the plaintiff. If,
on the other hand, you believe the wit-
nesses for the defendant, whose evidence
conflicts in almost every particular with
the foregoing, you will return a verdict
for the defendant. If, like myself, you
believe neither. Heaven only knows what
you will do. Gentlemen, consider your
verdict.”
» * * •
“El Verdugo”: English royal-com-
mission reports have it all over ours for
color. Where in any Australian report
can you find a bank director of the
central-banking system and Companion
of Honor represented, like Mr. Gibson,
in the recent British commission on
bribery, as being tempted with gifts of
a dozen cigars, three pounds of sausages
at Christmas, 1947, in Manchester, half
a bottle of whisky, a suit made by a
tailor named Hirsch Teper, and a job at
£lO,OOO a year as managing-director of a
firm named Jones—the last trifle refused?
Where but in the Old Dart could
momentous transactions centre solemnly
round an acquaintanceship picked up
among the board members of a firm
named Swears and Wells, a couple of
monickers which will instantly set
devotees of the old “Pink ’Un” rolling
in their seats with memories of that
“peculiar conglomeration of mixed
spirits” the Pelican Club, in Gerrard-
street, of which “Dagonet” sang blithely
of yore, and whose mantelpiece held a
notice which read:
Members who have reason to believe
that Writs, Judgments, or any other Legal
Blisters are out against them, are warned
against washing, etc., downstairs.
The Lavatory is Full of Bailiffs.
And where in our own country can you
find me a Commissioner like Mr. Justice
Lynskey of the Belcher Tribunal who,
shunning a word which must have sorely
tempted him after hearing all the
evidence, accurately assessed the natal
status of a famous witness with deadly
effect, thus:
Mr. Sydney Stanley’s name is Kohszycky
his father’s name being Wulkan and
his mother’s being Kohszycky.
* * * *
“Becks”: A short time ago I drew
attention on this page to an American
radio star who was retailing an ancient
anecdote as his own experience, tying it
up to the town of Casino (N.S.W.) and
winding up with “I knew tho man.” I
have since had the pleasure of hearing
a radio-announcer admit that the Yank
didn’t really “know the man” and that
“Anybody seen the toothpaste ?”
the yarn had been traced back to at least
the eighteenth century. This encourages
me to continue my campaign against
those who attempt to make antique gags
their own property. Latest offender,
though possibly an unwitting one, is Dr.
Leslie Banks, of the British Ministry of
Health. His effort, which was cabled
out to Australia, tells of “a Cambridge-
shire doctor” who was called out in the
early hours of the morning by a man
who said, “Grandfather is paralysed.”
When he got to the house he found that
the old gaffer had stuck both feet in the
same leg of his pyjamas. It won’t do,
Dr. Banks. That yarn was going the
rounds before you ever started on yours.
In its best form it concerned a drunk
who arrived home doubled up and told
his wife he had had “paralletish shroke.”
On examination it was found he had
buttoned his fly-buttons on to his waist-
coat,
* * * ♦
“Cauboy”: To make sure of getting
permanent seats for the A.B.C.’s cele-
brity concerts this year at Melbourne
Town Hall, people are queueing all night
in Collins-street in very frosty weather, as
they did for the Oliviers. Whilst admiring
their devotion, I can’t help wondering
how many of them will be taking out
subscription passes five years hence.
During 25 years of compulsory concert-
going, I have observed a curious pheno-
menon. Every four or five years the
composition of audiences changes. If I
see a familiar face in the foyer it
turns out to be a fellow-critic. Where
the flies go in winter may be a mystery,
but I think I know what these erstwhile
music-lovers are doing—anything but
listening to celebrity concerts. They
have bored themselves with music by
listening without participating. A friend
of mine who got a passion for Beet-
hoven and Mozart took out a season
ticket, bought a gramophone and sat
night after night nodding his head out
of time with great symphonies and
sonatas. Today he couldn’t imagine a
worse form of torture than listening to
a record, and wild motor-cars wouldn’t
drag him to an A.B.C. concert. Teachers
of art-appreciation, so-called, please note.
♦ * * *
“J.M.C.”: The idea of seeing naked
girls running about my neighbor’s garden
and then leaping along into mine may no
longer be a daydream now that our
ifnmigration scheme embraces the Balkan
countries. When a drought threatens the
crops in some regions of the Balkans, the
priest prays for rain, but‘if this is of no
avail, the people strip their most beautiful
maidens and send them dancing and sing-
ing through the gardens of the village. In
each garden the owner empties a bucket
of water over them —not as a protest
against their shamelessness, but merely as
an essential part of the ancient ritual of
paparuda. This suggests an idea. Our
worst droughts are in parts where popula-
tion is scarcest. Why not try out the
paparuda whenever the state of the
countryside warrants a downpour? Even
if it didn’t break the drought, it would
at least take the minds of those sun-
drenched settlers off it for a while —and it
would certainly encourage a transfer of
population.
# * * *
“Zake”: In my tender years whenever
any of the neighbors’ kids, kicking over
the traces, nicked off from home, the
aftermath ran one of two courses; either
the delinquent crawled back voluntarily
after a day or two, hungry and miserable,
or he was sternly returned by a big cop.
Mum was usually so relieved to see him
come home safely that she was ready to
forgive him. But Dad invariably re-
sorted, as the reaction to thankfulness,
to the old leather cure, the most effective
yet devised for the complaint. These
days the delinquents are “escorted” home
after putting an already overworked
police department to extra work. Do
they come home in disgrace? Square
up. What about the sob-sisters and their
allies the press photographers? If the
home-leavers are girls they will be photo-
graphed duly simpering, and a descrip-
tion of their glamor clothes will be a
foregone conclusion. In short, they will
find themselves heroines, with the possi-
bility of being asked to broadcast over the
radio. The publicity they get from the
flapper-press will, of course, act as the
best possible deterrent against others do-
ing likewise.
♦ * * *
“Jurumudi”: I see that her Highness
the Dayang Muda of Sarawak has
arrived in Australia. Dayang Muda
means young girl, and in this case
applies to the sister-in-law of Sir
Charles Vyner Brooke, the last white
Rajah of Sarawak, now without a
kingdom the British Government
having declared the remarkable State
his ancestors established a Crown
colony. Sarawak was fortunate in only
two of its rulers. The first Brooke was a
great individualist who carved out a
kingdom for himself by sheer personal
magnetism, plus the assistance of a
quartermaster, and that against a horde
of corrupt Malay nobles who would
gladly have put poison in his coffee if
they had dared, and savage Dyaks whose
passion for headtaking he used by leading
one wild tribe against another until he
made the country safe. He left no son,
and bequeathed the rajahship to his
nephew, who turned out to be of the same
calibre as his uncle. The rest of the
dynasty has been much like Asiatic
dynasties in general. Mostly they haven’t
been up to the standard of their founder,
but are occasionally heard of as having
espoused Mohammedanism while flying
in an aeroplane over Paris or marrying or
getting divorced from a dance-band con-
ductor or a wrestler. Too much privilege
and money has been their trouble.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Approached for his opinion on
the proposed establishment of an official
Matrimonial Conciliation Bureau in Mel-
bourne, Premier Hollway remarked: “If
two people can’t agree to rub along
peacefully as partners in marriage, I
doubt the capacity of any civil servant
or social worker to help them very much,”
Good for Hollway. Shelley was a
genius, yet he got himself into a matri-
monial muddle he couldn’t solve, so what
chance has a civil servant? “Marriage is
a private affair, and it can’t be compared
with arbitration and conciliation in in-
dustrial disputes,” said Hollway. Recent
running of “streamlined conciliation” in
industry is no recommendation for its
entry into the matrimonial field.
* ♦ * •
“0.W.W.”: Next to me at a wedding
breakfast sat a boy of about 12. Be-
tween savories and sweets he filled his
glass from handy beer-bottles, and as
soon as the toast list began his hand
reached for a sherry-bottle. He had
poured a generous helping when his
mother, sitting near by, displayed sudden
concern. “Leave that stuff alone and
stick to beer,” she snapped. “You’ll make
yourself sick if you mix them.”
♦ * * »
“Craiser”: Penguins, in their only
breeding-ground in Victoria, Phillip
Island, are being cruelly maltreated by
callous tourists, who pull them out of
their burrows, actually use them as foot-
balls and, in one case at least —and that
a woman —pluck and cook them. It is
proposed to enclose and police the help-
less creatures, and heavy penalties are
suggested for their tormentors. The birds
are lucky, inasmuch as they have a
super-authority to protect them. Anatole
France wrote a book in which the history
of France is described in terms of pen-
guins ; a chapter could be added on the
way the human penguins of Australia
are being, or are going to be, kicked
around under the socialistic regime of
Mr. Chifley.
* * * ♦
“Shep”; In 1947 when Suva (Fiji)
started a new newspaper, the “Weekly
Guardian,” it startled its readers by carry-
ing the slogan that it was the first news-
paper to be published in the world. But
the slogan was right. Suva lies only 90
miles west of the international date-line,
and the paper being a morning one is
the first to see the light of the new day.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: The impact of the talkies on
legit, left Melbourne with only two flesh-
and-blood theatres out of 11 in the
space of a few months. After many
years the tide has turned, but the counter-
attack will probably have reached, its
peak with the converting of the King’s in
Russell-street from films to straight plays
when the old playhouse opens on Easter
Saturday with Doris Fitton in “Rusty
Bugles,” the play that was banned in
Sydney until several words were deleted.
Lessee of the theatre will be Garnet Car-
roll, who runs the Princess.
* * * ♦
“Euroclydon”: Place-names? Once
upon a time the Victorian Lands Depart-
ment surveyed a town-site on the main
Geelong-to-Melboume line and duly re-
corded it as Bulben. But the intended
town grew up two miles away and called
itself Little River. In later years the
Vic. Railway Department decided to
change the nameplate of Little River to
Bulben. A station further down the line
was then called Cowie, so the localites
made rude remarks about the pair of them
and stuck tenaciously to the original
Little River until the nameplate was re-
stored. Cowie became Corio when Gee-
long Grammar School moved out there,
and the grass still grows over the pegs
for Bulben.
9 * * *
“En B.”: Vegetarians who really be-
lieve in the “imitation meats” (B.
23/2/’49) that scientists allege taste of
“fish, chicken, lamb, turkey, beef or
pork” may enjoy it to the uttermost.
Years ago, when appetites were stronger
and shadows smaller, a brother and I
were given a box of biscuits in a glass
case. We removed them from their
background with a knife, and, despite
their queer taste—admitted by neither—
ate the lot. They looked wonderful,
therefore they were wonderful. But now
I know we fooled ourselves into eating
what was probably a fair quantity of glue
and sawdust; the box was a showcase-
dummy.
FATHER WILLIAM.
“Mr. W. M. Hughes (84), winner of the Liberal
pre-selection for Bradfield against two other can-
didates, has been a member of Parliament for ovdt
54 years. In another month he will have beaten v
Lloyd George’s record."
“You are old, Father William,” some young
fellows say,
Professing surprise that you don’t
Consider it’s time you should call it a day.
But you’ve made it quite clear that you won’t.
Why should you, indeed? Your political span
The truth of the proverb reveals
(Though a woman’s as old as she looks) that
a man
Is merely as old as he feels.
To elbow you off the inspiriting scene
On which you’ve so long been a player
I’ll say would be paltry, unworthy and mean,
A scurvy rebuff for a stayer.
You were there, a pastmaster of stinging retort
And subtle address, I’ll be sworn,
When Reps of today, quite a few, were in short
Nether garments—and more were unborn.
You went up like a rocket —in fact you were it
For years in our world politic;
And though you came down in the end, we’ll
admit
You never came down like a stick.
Years fifty and five, or approaching thereto,
You’ve never been stuck for a seat.
Sit tight, Father William! We’re looking to you
Lloyd George’s achievement to beat.
We lack elder statesmen, old stagers mayhap
Who Cabinet hopes must forgo,
But who’re useful as keeping sage counsel on
tap
For the chaps who are running the show.
Here’s luck, Father William! ’Twere shame
should you be
Bumped out while the course you can stay,
For you seldom break silence, we mostly agree,
Without something worth saying to say.
N.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Bo”; There will, I am sure, be few
who will cavil at the statement in the
Arbitration Court by a union official
claiming a modest ten guineas a week
wage for Sydney barmaids that not only
must they be able to talk to customers
on almost any subject, but that they are
“more artists than working women.”
For the depth and breadth of Hebe’s
knowledge I can personally vouch. Only
the other day, between the race results,
there came from the radio the strains of
Clair de Lune.” “Do you like
Debussy?” I asked, as she mopped the
suds from around my elbow. “Where’s
’e runnin’,” asked Hebe, interested at
once. “Flemmo or Randwick?” As to
her artistic qualifications, these are self-
evident, She can draw —Lord, how she
can draw. With four middies in the left
hand and the beer-pump in the other
she’s simply a wizard. As a mixer of
colors she’s equally a wonder, as her
ox-blood lipstick, sun-tan rouge, jet-black
eyebrows and bottled-straw-colored hair
showing half an inch grey at the roots
amply testify. Need I add that, by the
healthy tide of zacks and treys rising in
the lady’s-waist she keeps handy on her
side of the bar, she’s also adept at can-
vassing?
♦ * • *
“Brolga”: Can’t swear to the technical
details, but a chemist tells me that some
of the pill-merchants near the training-
stables who do a steady trade in “bombs”
have developed a new technique as a
result of recent swabbing charges. The
main ingredients are enclosed in a capsule
which will dissolve in the horse’s interior
after a carefully calculated space of time.
This capsule is then enclosed in another
capsule, also requiring time to dissolve.
Process is repeated ad lib., with the result
that the nag can be charged with an out-
size in capsules, containing numerous
lesser capsules, almost 24 hours before
barrier-down—and the hoped-for liquida-
tion of the last capsule and release of the
“bomb.” Independent witnesses can
swear on oath that the punters’ hope
hadn't received any tonic on race-day.
♦ * * ♦
“Lofty”: Elliston, on the South Aus-
tralian end of the Great Australian Bight,
has a hospital and at least three street
lights, so is not devoid of progress or
scientific advancements. The method of
shutting off the street lights at midnight
might appear antiquated, but it has stood
the test against more modern devices. In
a box fitted to one of the street-poles is
a switch, a mousetrap and an alarm-clock.
The trap is set and the alarm is wound
and set for 12. When the alarm rings its
arm touches the tongue of the trap, the
spring flicks the switch and out go the
three lights.
* * • «
“Sally Jane”: Two ex-R.A.A.F. lads are
not quite so sure about the live-and-let-
live fine. They set up an art-pottery
business in an outer suburb, and, though
there was good pottery clay on near-by
vacant land, they bought their raw stuff
from Ikey Refoh. “Poor cow,” they said.
“He had a tough spin when Hitler booted
him out.” Neither Bill’s wooden leg
nor Jack’s useless eye held them back.
Business flowed in, but their supplier
began to slacken on clay deliveries, dol-
ing out about 50 p.c, of their needs. They
turned to the clay land, but found
barbed-wire and “Trespassers” notices.
Then a utility arrived and disgorged
Ikey and his minions. He was so thank-
ful to the lads, he said, for telling him
about the clay deposits. He had bought
up all the land and was preparing to
supply friends also going into the pottery
line. Naturally he would have very little
spare clay for anyone else.
• * * *
“C.A.L.”: At ninepence a stamp, letter-
writing was a very expensive hobby in
the Middle East, and the smart blokes
used to steam new-looking stamps from
letters received from Australia and stick
’em on return letters. When the racket
“ Aren't We lucky there are no snakes or apple-trees here!"
became a little too hot Army p.-os. put
on "a “blitz” and several Diggers were on
the mat. Most of them swore they had
bought the stamp from a soldier (name
unknown) in another unit. This tale soon
became worn out, but one man, up be-
fore his colonel, had a totally original
excuse. “Where did you get that stamp
from, soldier?” asked the C.O. “My
mother sent it to me, sir,” answered the
private. “No doubt,” replied the officer.
“But I’ll bet it was on the outside of her
letter. Fined two pounds.”
* * * •
“Mopoke”: I am doubtful about
“Den’s” pre-Roman British coins made
of copper with a gold skin (B. 9/2/’49).
What methods did the ancients use to
make them? One can understand a pot
of molten gold with a billet of copper
dropped into it and the resulting product
being beaten out similarly to the modern
process of copper-coated steel wires.
Can “Den” tell me where the coins can
be seen?
•jj ;j» jJ* jj;
“Pongo”: So “Haiher” (B. 16/3/’49)
admits his identity. Permit me to add
a few remarks regarding this everlasting
freelance. According to intirriate con-
temporaries, “Hamer” entered this vale
of tears with a pen behind each ear, ink-
bottle in each hand, a bundle of copy-
paper under each arm and an old razor-
blade stuck in a cork of one ink-bottle.
What the medico at first took to be a
malformed dial turned out to be nothing
more serious than a decidedly bulged
right cheek caused by the tongue of the
“ Dammit, Meadows, what's the hurry? The directors' meeting doesn't
start for another ten minutes yet!"
precocious infant being pushed hard
against it. My love and admiration for
the old scribe is unbounded. However,
he once exploited me, and it still rankles.
A generation ago, with five other brass-
hats of a Government department, I was
inspecting a job at a suburban post-office ;
employed on the work was one solitary
carpenter. As we watched the lone car-
penter at work a voice from the heavens
called, “Hullo, ‘Pongo,’ you old so-and-
so.” A hurried look skyward revealed
the then auburn-thatched “Hamer” half-
way through a fifth-story window, wav-
ing a greeting. In The Bulletin a week
later appeared a “Hamer” par. about the
six brass-hats and the lone carpenter.
What I still whinge about is the fact
that I had also written a par. about the
brass-hats and the carpenter; mine didn’t
appear. This Bulletin contributor of
52 years’ standing is a menace to all
space-seekers, and I would not be sur-
prised to learn on his passing that he
had anticipated the undertaker with his
funeral notice and claimed linage for it.
# * * *
“Dekko”: Considering the pros and
cons of magnetised-steel dentures (B.
23-/2/’49), a few good points must be
conceded to them.’ They would act as
an efficient corrective to those who eat
peas off their knives or pick their teeth
with a pocket-knife; and not less to the
suckers of pen-nibs. A thought that
occurs to me is the embarrassing situa-
tion that may arise if a young man with
magnetised dentures attempts to snatch
a kiss from a damsel similarly equipped.
• * * *
“Narsty Norm”: Tell “Clooter” (B,
9/3/’49) that a detachment of the U.S.
Marines, skirted variety, did visit Aus-
tralia during the war. The Press showed
no tendency to find a nickname for
them —“Leatherettes” might have been
appropriate. With the W.A.Cs, the
papers were careful to feminise “Dough-
boy” to “Doughgirl,” and left the even
more common term of “Dogface”
severely alone.
» * » *
“Pat”: The biggest blot on this country
is the country guest-house. We hit one
about five in the afternoon, dishevelled,
hot and tired, to be told by a fellow-guest
that the manager was taking a bath, but
wouldn’t be long. He wasn’t longer than
half an hour. On the second night all
guests who had not cannily retired to
their rooms by eight o’clock were closeted
in the lounge-room and commanded to
do a “turn” or pay two-bob. When I prof-
fered the latter I was frowned upon,
told to be a sport and encouraged with
the information that “Baa, baa, black
sheep,” would do if I didn’t know any-
thing else. The climax came at Sunday’s
midday dinner. During the morning the
chummy multitude had asked me to go
blackberrying. I resisted triumphantly
and, hugging my thriller, found a secluded
spot down by the fowlyard. At dinner I
brazenly ordered blackberry-pie. The
waitress, looking uncertain, said she
would see. She returned, and in a con-
spiratorial whisper asked whether I had
assisted on the blackberry expedition.
Confronted by hostile gazes from adjacent
tables I was truthful. “Well, then, I’m
sorry,” said the girl, “but the pie is only
for the guests who picked the black-
berries.”
» » * •
“Helldud”; I saw my first movie in
Sydney about 1896. Shown in a small
shop in George-street, it was titled “A
Trip Through the Swiss Alps.” The front
of the shop represented a miniature rail-
way-station, complete with destination-
board, ticket-office and gold-braided
station-master. Inside was a cleverly-
devised replica of a railway-carriage,
open at the front end to accommodate
the screen. The audience was seated
three abreast on each side of the aisle.
The clang of a bell, a blast from the
guard’s whistle and we were off. The
carriage swayed from side to side in a
most realistic manner, and, as the sway-
ing train travelled through the beautiful
Alpine country depicted, it wasn’t difficult
to imagine that one was really a genuine
Alpine tourist.
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The film we made of
“A Messenger from Mars” in Wellington,
New Zealand, in 1903, was one of the
first made in Australasia. The “Messenger”
was a moneyspinner; when Hawtrey
nearly went broke with the other plays in
his repertoire, the old stand-by was put
on and brought bumper houses. There
seemed a harvest waiting in towns too
small for the Hawtrey Co. to play where
its publicity already had gone; and as a
pair of enterprising photographers had
imported a film-camera with the idea of
taking scenic and sporting movies, the
gear was available. “Shot” in the back-
yard of a house in Cuba-street where we
had to wait for the sunlight, not altogether
reliable in Wellington, the production
must have been pretty awful; my own
show was on tour far away before the
film was ready for screening. What was it
like? Search me ; I never saw it.
* # * ♦
“Craiser”: A steward on one of the
most ornate ocean-liners ever to visit
Melbourne gave a passenger, off on a trip
to England, a friendly warning. “If you
lose anything, madam,” he said, “don’t
get in a panic and go to the purser. Tell
me and I’ll give it to you back.”
* * * *
“H.D.”: “Spasebo’s” elderly Muscovite
hedge-clipper (B. 9/2/’49) was scantily
clad compared with “Lousy Mona,” an
old vagabond who, 50 years ago, was a
familiar figure in Sydney Domain, Hyde
Park and the ’Loo. How this strange
sobriquet originated is a mystery, for,
despite his faultless diction, he was by
no means ladylike and drove an excep-
tionally tough bargain. “Lousy Mona”
wore six of everything except boots, and
his swaying tower of hats presented an
irresistible target for his tormentors. It
was a rare sight to behold “Mona” in
the throes of a sale. It was “strip-tease”
par excellence, and no one knew what
the next shedding would reveal. His
sales attracted big audiences, and his
comments when “customers” failed to
buy at the end of the “strip-tease” were
epics in cultured expressions of con-
tempt. With stock at grass, “Mona,” clad
only in his own personal raiment, cut a
pathetic, skinny figure. He was well over
80 when he dossed for the last time at
the rear of Sydney Hospital; and it was
said that relatives in Ireland benefited
to the extent of several thousands from
the old chap’s “discarded-clothing” ven-
ture.
* * * ♦
“Pontius Penwiper”: Free medicine is
going to create a lot of problems that
have probably not occurred to its
originators. A doctor of my acquaintance
before dismissing patients suffering from
nerves or depression with advice and pre-
scriptions, and minus their half-guinea,
used to hand them a brief shot in a
medicine-glass with the order “Take this
in the meantime; it may do you some
good.” Patients were known to come (
back with eulogies about “that wonderful
stuff.” It was pure water, handed out
with due impressiveness. Is water in-
cluded in the formulary?
♦-♦ * ♦
“Pat C.”: The most heartening cable
I’ve read for years is the news of a
demand by women’s organisations in
Britain that a wife should share equally
her husband’s income. I’m all for it.
Under this New Deal in a Golden Age,
instead of prising ten bob out of the
cashier on Wednesday (loan returnable
at call on Friday), strapping up drinks
on Thursday and slating half an ounce
of inferior weed with the tobacconist.
I’ll still have a couple of quid in my
pocket and a grin on my dial when the
ghost walks. Give wives equality, by all
means. Only that way will husbands
get their fair share.
HE’LL BE “FOLKSY.”
“Mr. Meazies, addressing Liberal supporters at
Newcastle, said that he aimed to dispel widely-
circulated impressions that he was ‘cold, aloof and
uninterested in working-class problems’ by personal
contact with as many people as possible and talking
to everyone who was willing to talk to him.”
—Sydney “Sun.”
The Yanks a single word have got
Which seems to meet the case,
An adjective that hits the spot
And packs a devil of a lot
Into the tiniest space.
The chap who’s equally at ease
Conversing with celebrities
And with the coves and blokes he
Meets on electioneering tours
Has definitely what ensures
His being classed as “folksy.”
It means to have a word or two
With anyone who is
Inclined to have a pitch with you,
And to propound your point of view
In fair exchange for his.
In pleasant sociableness
You list to what he seeks to stress,
Reciprocate the jokes he
May, like as not, get off his chest.
This is the process, I suggest,
That warrants you as “folksy.”
“Folksy!” A word the Yanks have made,
A l s surely is but right,
Considering the part it played
When last year’s parties were arrayed
In Presidential fight.
Its absence, those who know the ropes
Contend, demolished Dewey’s hopes
Because, for all the spokes he
Contrived for his opponent’s wheel
He couldn’t either act or feel,
Like Harry Truman, “folksy.”
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


THE
UNION
TRUSTED
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Star*
One Executor with the knowledge «i many
When you take the serious step of
appointing someone to act as manager,
executor or trustee of your estate you are
entitled to be fully satisfied as to capacity
to do what is required.
The future of others who mean much to
you depends upon your choice.
The Union Trustee Company of Australia
meets all requirements. For sixty years
it has rendered service precisely similar
to what you require.
It has built up a fund of knowledge and
experience which, through trained execu-
tives, is readily available to you.
Its directors are men of substance and
standing, themselves well accustomed to
the discharge of very responsible duties.
Their accumulated experience is also at
your disposal.
incorporated in Victoria.
Es,, 1885
Write for Free Booklet.
333 Collin* St., Melbourne—2 O’Connell St., Sydney— 39 B-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The only Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States —Victoria, New South Wales and Queenslan^^
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
Huddart Parker, Ltd.
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries^
, Dividends N
Pref. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £, £ £ £
1941. .140,213 30,000 12 p.c. =90,00020,213 2,066,990
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. ..2,056,990
Adjustment outside Interests, £4892 .. 2,061,882
Surplus sale assets, £5457 ~ .. 2,067,339
1942. 30,000 12 p.c. = 90,000 5,416 2,072,755
Profit liq. subsidiary, £75,376 .. 2,148,131
Adjustm’t outside infests, etc., £7244.. 2,156,375
1943.. 107,956 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 2,143,381
Surplus sale assets, £Bl4B .. .. 2,146,479
Unexplained addition, £13,651 ~2,160,180
1944. .103,911 80,000 12 p.c. := 90,000 2,144,041
Unexplained addition, £61,379 ..2,206,420
1945.. 149,901 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 29,901 2,235,321
Unexplained addition, £17,574 ..2,252,895
1946.. 138,572 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 18,572 2,271,467
Subsidy adjustment, £7169 .. .. 2,278,636
Unexplained addition, £63,181 ~ 2,341,817
1947.. 121,614 30,000 12 p.c.= 90,000 1614 2,343,431
Subsidy adjustment, £24,794 .. .. 2,368,225
Unexplained reductions, £84,808 .. 2,283,417
1948. .140,816 30,000 11 p.c.=8’2,500 27,815 2,311,232
■f Eliminating outsiders’ equity in profits and reserves.
The drop in the div. can be taken as a
hint concerning the outlook for privately--
owned shipping on the Australian coast.
Under the new Federal Shipping Act,
1949, the Government is to set up a Com-
monwealth shipping line, which promises
to perpetuate the economically chaotic
conditions in the industry which have
been brought about ip no small measure
by a politically-controlled Shipping Board,
first set up to meet the exigencies of war.
Other basic provisions of the Act relate
to the licensing of shipbuilding and of
ships engaged in the coastal trade, and to
the retirement of vessels so engaged when
they become 24 years old. A time-lag of
anything up to 10 years is expected
before all ships in the coastal trade a're
out of Australian yards and within the
age-limit prescribed. Meanwhile, char-
tering and employment of over-age
vessels are to continue Until they can be
replaced with Australian-built ones. The
latter, which are to be of standard type,
will be ordered and paid for by the Gov-
ernment, which will then sell them to
private enterprise at a figure approxi-
mately equal to the cost of similar vessels
built in British yards. The difference,
provided it does not exceed 25 p.c. of
Australian cost, will represent the sub-
sidy, or financial assistance, provided by
the Government,
Today the coastal shipping trade is un-
profitable, and has been for some time.
The reason is partly high and still-rising
costs, including the cost of maintenance
and repairs, against a background of low
and uneconomical freight rates, which
are controlled by Government edict, and
partly the slow turn-round of ships in
port, due to go-slow tactics and industrial
hold-ups on the waterfront.
The new Government line promises to
be an unprofitable venture, and therefore
a drain on the taxpayer’s purse, just as
the old one, which began in 1916, was.
The Shipping Board’s chartered vessels,
which will form part of the new fleet,
are still losing money. Yet to Australian
owners charter-rates have been insuffi-
cient to cover the advancing cost of main-
tenance and repairs, adequate deprecia-
tion and a reasonable profit on the capital
involved. Nevertheless, there is political
talk, or propaganda, about “preventing
freight-rates from rising to an unduly
high level,” and the Government says it
doesn’t intend that financial considera-
tions alone shall prevent shipping services
from being provided where considered
necessary. Moreover, the Government
line is to be exempt from payment of
income-tax. The scales are thus weighted
heavily against private enterprise from the
start, and the way is open for nationalisa-
tion of the industry on the cheap—by
first making it unprofitable.
H.P.’s shareholders can thank returns
from investments other than the co.’s
shipping for last year’s profit and div.
Operations of the fleet (two passenger
ships and half a dozen freighters) resulted
in a loss. The Wanganella, out of com-
mission since she ran aground at the
entrance of Wellington Harbor nearly
two years ago, resumed the trans-Tasman
run again shortly before the close of last
accounts. The other passenger ship, the
Westralia, still on charter to the Govern-
ment ferrying troops and supplies to and
from Japan, is expected to be returned at
an early date.
After deducting outside shareholders’
interests and allowing for depreciation
(£44,471, up £673) and taxation (£22,384,
down £8427), net earnings of the co. and
its subsidiaries were £18,701 better at
£140,315. That excludes £24,794 received
in connection with subsidy adjustment
and an unexplained reduction of £84,808
in reserves, partly on account of salvage
loss on the Wanganella. The £140,315
covered the pref. div. and 14.7 p.c. on the
£750,000 of ord, capital as against 12.2,
14.5, 15.9, 9.8, 10.3 and 12.7 p.c. back to
1942. Capital, however, has the support
and assistance of £2,311,232 of reserves,
which means that the year’s profit was
equal to only 3.9 p.c, on the two com-
bined. A point was chipped off the div.,
reducing it to 11 p.c.
Next table shows how well-ribbed the
undertaking is financially:
Huddart Parker and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital ~ £1,260,0*00 £1,250,000 £1,250,000
Outside shares* .. 418,529 422,279 428,200
Sundry creditors! 278,029 571,725 642,778
Inter-co. balances! 13,161 9,360 21,886
Freehold & leasehold 521,250 522,424 517,312
Ships, plant, etc. 1,156,457 601,516 595,583
Government bonds 1,281,935 1,575,930 1,469,270
Shares, etc. .. 764,975 1,121,820 1,161,811
Stores ~ .. 77,223 97,965 121,718
Sundry debtors .. 200,485 607,557 855,522
Cash ~ .. 50,601 137,083 2,880
* Includes proportion undivided profits, f Including
taxation. ! Due to variation in balancing dates.
When the books closed the amount com-
ing to outsiders was more than covered
by book-debts alone, while Government
securities and cash together exceeded paid
capital by £212,150. In addition there
were investments with a book-value of
£1,161,811, which includes scrip in
Hebburn, Metropolitan and J. and A.
Brown and Abermain-Seaham —all in the
distraught coal trade—and in Melbourne
Steam, Tasmanian Steamers Pty., A.W.A.
and A.N.A.
At 625, the f.-p. pound ords, return
3.5 p.c. on an 11 p.c, div. basis, and the
prefs. at 30s, yield 4 p.c. Net tangible
cover is £7 2s. sd. prefs. and 81s. 7d.
ords.
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co.
, ——Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 24 p.c. serves, serves.
£ £ £ . £ £
1940.. 114,082 24,000 180,000 306,277
12 p.c.
1941.. 134,112 24,000 90,000 20,112 326,389
14.6 p.c.
1942.. 134,702 24,000 110,000 702 327,091
Tax and insurance reserve brought
back, £37,000 364,091
16 p.c.
1943.. 145,469 24.000 120,000 1,469 365,560
Excess tax provision written back
£109,696 475,256
17.4 p.c.
1944.. 155,796 24,000 181,000 796 476,052
40.5 p.c.
1945.. 122,192 24,000 305,000 269,244
From inner reserves, £74,088 .. 343,332
• 26.4 p.c.
1946.. 214,367 24,000 198,000 335,699
From inner reserves, £99,430 ... 435,129
.36.8 p.c.
1947.. 800,683 24,000 276,000 683 435,812
21.6 p.c.
1948.. 823,138 24,000 182,000 141,138 576,949
It was to side-step the tariff that the
Goodyear Tyre and Rubber Co., Akron
(U.S.A.), decided, in 1926, to set up a
manufacturing subsidiary here; and the
offshoot stepped into a ready-made con-
nection built up by an importing agency.
The Australian public put up £300,000 in
8 p.c cum. prefs., and the American
parent took half a million ords. for cash.
Its holding was increased to 750,000 by
the issue of £250,000 of bonus scrip in
1934, which lifted paid capital to its
present figure (£1,050,000).
In the early stages, when money was
wanted for development, the parent gave
generous financial assistance and took
nothing out of the business by way of
divs., which began to flow in 1932. For
the 17 years since then the average has
been 18.5 p.c,, sweetened with the bonus
scrip already referred to. Since war ended
demand, with few exceptions, has con-
tinued to run ahead of production, which
has been hampered by shortages of labor
and some raw materials, chiefly cotton
and rayon tyre-cords. Still, the growth in
turnover, coupled with savings from in-
creased efficiency and good buying, have
more than taken care of expanding costs.
Hence the marked increase in net earn-
ings over the last three years.
On the tyre and tube side, which
accounts for the bulk of the co.’s turn-
over, the following comparison of motor-
vehicle registrations in Australia (service
vehicles excluded) is a pointer to what has
happened:—
Registered New Registrations
End Period During Period
r- A >
Motor Com’ciaJ Motor Com’cial
Oars. Vehicles. Cars. Vehicles.
1938-39 .. 562,271 258,025 54,107 24,927
1941-42 .. 450,851 250,515 4,005 5,188
1944- .. 505,782 290,961 899 7,654
1945- .. 522,615 333,129 2,128 8,686
1946- .. 550,400 375,646 21,237 16,317
1947- .. 598,077 414,072 42,746 28,769
Dec., 1948 628,551 435,271 83,500* 18,892*
'* Six months end December, 1948.
At end 1948 cars accounted for 59.4 p.c.
and commercial vehicles 40.9 p.c. of total
registrations as against 68.5 p.c. and
31.5 p.c. at end June, 1939. New car
registrations accelerated during the Dec.
half of 1948, averaging 5583 a month,
due to increased deliveries from U.K.,
which supplied about 70 p.c. of the new
cars in 1948 as against 50 p.c. in 1947.
The appearance of G.M.-H.’s new all-
Australian car, the Holden, promises to
help the 1949 figures along.
Last year turnover (amount unstated)
notched a new record. The gain of
£22,455 in declared net earnings was more
than covered by the net saving in allow-
ances—£l69,ooo (down £56,000) for taxa-
tion and £104,782 (up £29,000) for de-
preciation. The £323,138 of profit covered
pref. requirements and 39.8 p.c. on ord.
capital as against 36.8, 25.3, 13.4, 17.5,
16.2 and 14.7 p.c. back to 1942. The div.
was lowered from 36.8 p.c. to 21.6 p.c.,
making total distributions over the last
four years 125.3 p.c. The 21.6 p.c,, how-
ever, was equal to only 13.7 p.c. on Ord.
capital and reserves combined.
To cater for expanding turnover,
£76,619 more was spent on plant than
was written off last year, and more equip-
ment is to be installed during the current
term:
1938. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Pref. capital £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Ord. capital 750,000 750,000 750,000 750,000
Goodyear (U.S.) 54,000
Creditors .. 146,583* 334,805 422,895 508,291
Tax reserve 561,837 436,349 403,934
Freeholds,
plant, etc... 407,063 360,543 887,381 464,000
Stocks .. 688,857 1,210,706 1,402,741 1,383,085
Rook debts.. 298,008 656,929 522,797 682,304
Cash, etc. .. 80,501 54,163 32,137 9,786
Java subsid. 197,300
* Including taxation, etc.
The year’s brisker trading is further re-
flected in debtors’ balances (up £159,507).
Stocks (down £19,656) catch the eye, but
with the rubber market as it is they are a
source of less anxiety than they were pre-
war.
At 40s. the well-protected prefs. return
4 p.c.
Pelaco. Ltd. (Melb.)
t Dividends ■ >
A B
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 7 p.c. 9 p.c, 5 p.c. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £ £
1940.. 20,780 2081 4500 8,250 5,949 9,557
1941.. 16,640 2081 4500 8,250 1,809 11,366
3 p.c.
1942.. 13,025 2081 4500 4,950 1,494 12,860
4 p.c.
1943.. 18,046 2081 4500 6,600 4,865 17,725
1944.. 21,054 2081 4500 6,600 7,873 25,598
5 p.c.
1945.. 22,771 2080 4500 8,250 7,941 83,539
6 p.c.
1946.. 25,443 2082 4500 9,900 8,962 42,500
From tax reserve, £5OOO .. .. 47,500
« 7} p.c.
1947.. 33,737 2082 4500 13,062 14,093 61,593
8J p.c.
1948.. 39,088 2082 4600 21,816 10,690 72,283
•After deducting book-value of goodwill (£10,000).
This co., which took over the Pearson
Law business in Melbourne 37 years ago,
is in the highly-competitive men’s-wear
trade. Since war ended turnover has
stepped along as fast as labor, materials
and industrial bottlenecks would allow.
To help overcome labor and other diffi-
culties, and so quicken production, the
board has followed a policy of decentrali-
sation, Output of the main factory at
Richmond (Vic.) is now supplemented
by the products of eight branch factories
—three at Frankston and one each at
Chelsea, Lara and Moolap (Vic.), another
at Sydney and the eighth at Sandgate,
near Brisbane. As well as eliminating
many vexatious transport difficulties, this
has also helped to reduce the freight
item in overhead. Since the co.’s pro-
ducts enter into the cost-of-living regimen,
its selling prices are still controlled, and,
until recently, a Government subsidy
looked after rises in the imported cost
of cotton materials.
Because part of the larger money-
value of turnover looks like holding in
the future, and because present banking
policy (controlled by the Government)
is that trade expansion should be financed j
by new share capital rather than bank
overdraft, £I6S,(KK) of fresh capital was
gathered at par over the 15 months to
the close of last accounts —£55,000 in
Sept., 1947, and £llO,OOO 12 months
later. The share money, and a lot more
besides, went into stocks and book debts:
1940. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Capital ~ £244,736 £244,736 £299,736 £409,786
Liabilities .. 131,897 71,740 236,784 850,176
Tax provision 14,503 41,915 47,553 68,287
Final divs. .. 14,832 13,191 16,858 25,107
Premises .. 103,571 97,469 97,802 97,043
Plant, etc. .. 46,883 41,436 44,378 48,395
Book debts .. 114,651 64,020 197,472 291,945'
Stock,. .. 143,966 204,019 322,276 478,155
Cash, etc. .. 6,556 7,138 91 46
Last term £155,879 net was added to
stocks, £94,473 to debtors’ balances and
£113,391 to the outside debt, which in-
cludes an overdraft of £114,492 (down
£32,629). The improvement in the more-
or-less liquid surplus (£336,577) was
£117,432, due mainly to the introduction
of fresh share capital.
After allowing £10,091 (up £4006) for
depreciation, making unspecified provi-
sion for taxation and sending something
to the staff fund, the board was able to
write net earnings £5351 stronger at
£39,088. That was enough to give the
prefs. their full contract rates and show
13 p.c. on average ord. capital as against
15.6, 11.4, 9.8, 8.7, 6.9, 3.7 and 6.1 p.c.
back to 1941. The div., which advanced
by halting steps from 3 p.c. in 1942 to
p.c. in 1947, was lifted to 8£ p.c,,
making the average 5.1 p.c. over the last
decade. For nine years before that the
ords, went hungry, slump having caught
the co. with heavy stocks and debtors’
balances which had to be worked down
at the worst possible moment to reduce
the outside debt, while the hand-to-mouth
policy of retailers and exchange and
tariff adjustments aggravated the posi-
tion.
Now that the co.’s stocks of subsi-
dised piecegoods are exhausted, selling-
prices of its own products will rise in
the near future. So far shortages and
inflation have obscured the effects of
rising costs, and seem likely to continue
to do so in diminishing degree until the
war-devastated countries develop suffi-
cient trade momentum to reverse present
trends.
The co.’s £409,736 of capital is in
29,736 A 7 p.c. and 50,000 B 9 p.c. cum.
prefs., all of £1 each, and 660,000 10s,
ords. At 15s. the ords. return 5.6 p.c.
on an 8? p.c. div. basis, and the As at 325.
and Bs at 345. yield 4.3 p.c. and 5.3 p.c.
respectively. Net tangible cover is £l6
4s, 2d. As, £9 os. lid. Bs and 12s. 2d. ords.
Zinc Investments, Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ p.c. £ £
1939 .. 8,152 Nil Nil 14,125
Loss.
1940 .. 766 2J 6,250 7,109
Profit.
1941 ;. 12,691 5 12,500 7.300
1942 .. 10,840 4 10,000 8,140
1943 .. 11,258 6 15,000 4,398
1944 .. 11,399 5 12,500 3,297
1945 .. 11,294 5 12,500 2,091
1946 . • 11,348 5 12,500 939
1947 .. 11,228 4} 11,250 917
1948 .. 11,336 4i 11,250 1,003
Zinc Investments’ rather misleading
title attempts to describe the object with
which the company was formed in 1936
—to take over the outside investments of


DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, ‘O.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
c/Viote than,
H FINE HOTEL
A to tel, certainly one of Sydney's
leading totels, tot different to
every otter in many ttings. Tte
V/entwortt. for instance, tas ever '
teen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosptere. Another tting, too.
wtile away from tte noise and
tustle. you are nevertteless con-
veniently situated to everywtere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
*Ptone BW 1361 (10 line*)
Ci D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
( “NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
BRISBANE
FRENCH
Corn Cure
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available ut
Anthony Horderns’
Missing Friend.
WOULD any person knowing the Where-
abouts of JOHN WILLIAM TURNER, late
of Fairfield, late of R.A.N., and Droop
Street, Footscray, please communicate
with MESSRS. JONES & KENNEDY,
Solicitors, 214 Nicholson Street, Foots-
cray.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIIXTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 34/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers jor lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co M
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D, Orders,
BLOTCHY
aPUtf7 SKIN
U w 'g marred by spots,
rashes and pimples is
quickly cleared by
Cuticura Ointment. It as*
sures skin health." Always
keep a tin of Cntictsra pint*
meat in the house. Good for
cuts, bruises and sores. One
of the famous trio- Guticuia
Ointment, Soap and
Talcum Powder.
839
uticura
m OINTMEHi
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS: .
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-ChMman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in aU Country Centres
THE
BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND BY CHARTER 1835
Paid-up Capital
Reserve Fund (used in the business of the Bank) . .
Reserve Liability of Proprietors under the Charter . .
£4,500,000
2.500.000
4.500.000
ONE-HUNDRED-AND-FIFTEENTH ANNUAL REPORT OF
THE DIRECTORS OF THE ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR
TO BE PRESENTED TO THE PROPRIETORS AT THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
TO BE HELD ON THURSDAY, 31st MARCH, 1949.
The Directors submit to the Proprietors the Balance Sheet as at 13th October last, with the
Profit and Loss Account for the year to that date. After providing for taxation on profits earned to
that date and making transfers to reserves and provisions for contingencies, out of Which accounts
provision has been made for any diminution in value of assets, the net profit for the year amounted
To this has to be added £280,398 brought forward from the previous year’s account, making
a total of £551,431. From this, £86,625 was paid as an Interim Dividend on Ist October last, and
the Directors have now appropriated a further sum of £136,125 to pay a Final Dividend of ss. 6d.
per Share, less Income Tax, making, in all £222,750, equal to 9s. per Share less Tax, and representing
for the year a distribution at the rate of 9 per cent, less Tax. There will remain £328,681 to be
carried forward to the next account.
The Dividend will be payable, in London, Australia and New Zealand, on Ist April.
The Directors have to record with much regret the death, on 22nd September, of their esteemed
colleague Mr. J. F. Q. Gilliat, also the resignation of Mr. Arthur Whitworth, who had been a valued
member of the Court of Directors for over 40' years. .
Mr. Ronald Henry Senior, D. 5.0., has been appointed to a seat on the Board and his name
will be submitted for the approval of the Proprietors at the Annual General Meeting, in accordance
with the provisions of the Deed of Settlement,
The Directors retiring by rotation are: —R. H. Senior, Esq., D. 5.0., and D. J. Robarts, Esq.,
who being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
Under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1948, the present Auditors, Messrs. Deloitte,
Plender, Griffiths & Co., will continue in office, but a resolution fixing their remuneration will be
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
At that meeting will be proposed, in accordance with the powers conferred upon the
Corporation in General Meeting by By-law 66 of the Bank, an Ordinary Resolution in the following
form: —
“That from and after the date upon which the directions given to the Corporation by the
Lord President of the Council under the Chartered Bodies (Temporary Provisions) Order 1939
shall cease to have effect and until such time as the Corporation in General Meeting shall otherwise
determine there shall be no limit upon the number of Directors except that there shall not at
any time be less than six Directors.”
The Directors have acted in concert with the other Trading Banks operating in Australia and
with the States of Victoria, South Australia and Western Australia in contesting the Commonwealth
Government’s proposals to nationalise the businesses of the Banks in Australia. The validity of the
Banking Act 1947, which embodied those proposals, was challenged by the Banks and the three said
States before the High Court of Australia, with the consequence that the greater part of the Act
was declared irivalid and costs were awarded against the Commonwealth and the Commonwealth
Bank. .Subsequently the Commonwealth Government obtained leave of the Privy Council to appeal
on the question of the validity of Section 46 of the Act, that being the section empowering the
Government to require the Banks to discontinue business in Australia, and the hearing of the Appeal
has been set down for 14th March next. In view of the fact that the nationalisation issue has yet
to be decided it has not been practicable for the Directors to proceed with the projected amalgamation
with the Union Bank of Australia Limited.
Since the date of the last Report new Branches have been opened at Victoria Markets in
Melbourne, at the Melbourne suburbs of Ashburton, Camberwell, East Preston, Newport and South
Yarra and at Wangaratta and Werribee, in Victoria; at Macquarie Place in Sydney and at the
Sydney suburbs of Ashfield, Campsie, Liverpool, Parramatta and Potts Point, in New South Wales;
at the Brisbane suburbs of Clayfield and Fortitude Valley North and at Southport, in Queensland;
at Victoria Square in Adelaide, in South Australia; and at the comer of George and Murray Streets
in Perth, in Western Australia; as well as at Upper Symonds Street in Auckland, at the Auckland
suburbs of Newton and Papakura, and at Kaeo and Mount Maunganui, all in New Zealand.
The Directors have also made arrangements to maintain a Branch Office at 263 Strand,
London, W.C.2, opposite Australia House.
TO 13th OCTOBER, 1948.
REPORT:
to £271,033.
G. C. GIBBS,
Chairman.
4 Threadneedle Street,
London.
10th March, 1949.
(The liability of the members is limited)
Amalgamated Zinc (De Bavay’s),
Ltd., which was going into liqui-
dation. The principal invest-
ments taken over didn’t relate to
zmc production, but comprised
150,000 £1 ords. in. Associated
Pulp and Paper Mills, Ltd.,
which had just been formed.
New issues by A.P.P.M. have
since raised that holding to
196,367 shares; but when the
paper firm decided to double its
capital in 1947, a special
arrangement was reached
whereby Zinc Investments dis-
tributed its rights to the new
issue among its own shareholders
on a pro rata basis. The issue
was at par, and Zinc Invest-
ments shareholders were offered
15 £1 shares in A.P.P.M. for
every 100 of their own 4s, shares.
The chairman intimated that the
company’s entire holding in
A.P.P.M. would similarly have
been dispersed among share-
holders but for the danger of
incurring penalty tax rates on the
hand-out.
Zinc Investments also has a
holding in Minerals Separation
and De Bavay’s Processes Aust,
Pty., Ltd., which owns a number
of metallurgical inventions. As
the inventions are “not of im-
mediate interest to the mining
and metal treatment world, the
future return from them is quite
problematical,” the board said
some years ago. No dividends
are received from Minerals
Separation, but a small return
does come from Zinc Invest-
ments’ bonds and cash-deposits:
1945. 1947. 1948.
Dividends from
A.P.P.M. . . £11,782 £11,782 £11,782
Other income .. 703 607 605
General exes. 1,021 1,011 1,017
Tax .. .. 170 150 35
Net profit ... 11,294 11,228 11,336
A steady 6 p.c. dividend has
been received from A.P.P.M.
since 1941, which just about
leaves Zinc Investments in a
position to pay 4} p.c. without
calling on its meagre reserves.
At 4s. 6d. each. Zinc Invest-
ments’ 4s. shares yield 4 p.c. on
the basis of a 4\ p.c. dividend —
slightly more than the current
yield of A.P.P.M.’s scrip. Net
asset backing of the Z.I. shares
is 3s. sd. each, if the paper shares
are given their own asset cover
of 19s. 2d., and ignoring the
Minerals Separation interest. If
the co. could distribute the paper
scrip free of tax, each share-
holder would be eligible for £1
of A.P.P.M. capital for about
255. of his Z.J. scrip; that is, for
every six and a quarter shares
now priced at 4s. 6d. each—a
total, of 28s. 2d. —he would get
an A.P.P.M. share currently
valued at 325.
Lake View and Star, Ltd.
Headquarters are in London,
but the mine—Australia’s biggest
gold-producer—is at the southern
end of the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile (W.A.). It is serviced by
fqur main shafts —Ivanhoe,
3628 ft.; Chaffers, 3756 ft.; Lake
View, 2347 ft.; Associated,
2283 ft. —and a 57,000-ton-a-
-month flotation plant. There is
also a retreatment plant handling
accumulated residues. The lodes
are numerous and scattered, and
prospecting is complicated by in-
tersection of ore-bodies and by
pre- and post-lode faulting.
Technically and otherwise the
co. has put up a very good per-
formance. Last term treatment
of less slightly lower-grade ore
and continued rise in costs re-
sulted in a slip of £68,173 in net
earnings:—
Year,
June Net Div.,
80, Revenue. Exes.* Profit. 87i p.c.
& & & &
'44 726,170 597,063 129,107 105,000
’45 707,560 593,681 113,879 105,500
40 p.c.
’46 840,491 684,121 156,370 123,300
47i p.c.
’47 1,209,196 989,575 219,621 146,300
’4B 1,198,009 1,046,561 151,448 146,300
* Includes provision depreciation and
taxation.
The £151,448 of profit was 27
p.c. on the £560,000 of capital as
against 39.3 p.c, for the previous
term. Still, it was enough to
maintain the div. at a nominal
p.c., equal to 26.1 p.c. in
shareholders’ hands, owing to the
incidence of English income-tax
(9s. in the £).
Treatment and recovery figures
and costs compare as follows:
Ore Cost
Treated, Assay, Gold, Per
Tons. DVvt. Oz. Ton.
1944.. 815.175 5.27 —21 s. 7.92 d.
1945.. 310.921 5.17 75,327 225. 9.60 d.
1946. .883,081 5.10 92,961 235. 5.35 d.
1947. .685,650 5.10 187,185 225. 9.22 d.
1948. .573,131 5.05 130.802 255. 8.45 d.
The drop of 12,519 tons in ore
treated was due to shorter work-
ing hours, loss of production
through storm damage in Feb.,
1948, and shortage of labor. The
same factors, together with lifts
in the basic wage and rise in
price of firewood and stores,
were responsible for the increase
of 2s. 11.23 d. a ton in costs.
About 60 p.c. of the ore came
from the western group of mines
and the balance from Lake View
and Associated.
Retreatment of the Chaffers
residue dump was completed on
June 8, 1948, since when this
plant has been handling current
flotation tailings and calcine resi-
dues, which are expected to yield
a profit of about 6d. a ton.
Development more than kept
pace with extraction, the net
addition to ore reserves beipg
112,000 tons. The position at
June 30 last was:
Tons. AsssVi
Positive ore .. 3,012,000 4.7odwt.
Probable ore 279,900 6.44 „
Known ore .. 703,900 4.99 „
Total . . 3,995,800 4.87* „
* Average.
New ore-bodies, assaying well
above mine average, have been
located and are being developed
around the 600 ft. levels in the
Lake View, Associated and s.-w.
portion of Chaffers leases.
Since the close of accounts
new mining awards, covering full
pay for annual leave, sick-leave
and public holidays, have further
bumped up costs, the labor
problem remains much as it was,
and there is no sign yet of a lift
in the price of gold. So, unless
mill-feed is sweetened, it is
doubtful whether last year’s rate
of distribution will be main-
tained.
When the books closed current
assets totalled £1,027,934, of
which £839,299 was in cash and
public securities. Including tax
provision and the div., liabilities
amounted to £516,460. The
market prices the 4s. shares at
225. 3d. (28s. a year ago), thus
valuing the undertaking at
£3,115,000.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Mat’s Mate”; We’d heard of a job
among the German farmers out of Uran-
quinty (N.S.W.) and set out to find it.
When we located the right farm Mat
led me off the road, took a wide sweep
and came into the back of the place.
Two dogs galloped to meet us. “H’m.
Well fed and friendly,” Mat remarked.
We walked on. “Gates in good order,”
he said. We passed a gallows. “He killed
last night,” Mat said, noting tiny bits of
wool about. “Cleaned up, too,” he
added. “No flies,” We reached the
backyard and a jovial cove came to meet
us. I did the talking. Mat stood by the
rubbish heap, neatly piled, poking at it
with his boots in the fashion of a shy
bloke. Presently I got a signal from him,
accepted the job, and we went away to
get our gear. “What decided y’?” I
asked. _ “They was eggshells, sardine
tins, apricot- and plum-stones, pumpkin-
skin and date-pips,” he said. “Cripes,
it’ll be good t’ get decent tucker again! ”
♦ ♦ * *
“Chuck”; Ted strode over the ridge to
Morgan’s place and found Bill on the
verandah. “Post-office just phoned there’s
an urgent package down there for you.
Bill,” he reported. “Yair?” Bill glanced
at his watch. “Cripes, if I hurry, I c’n
just about make it before the office
closes,” he decided. He grabbed up a
hoe, ran an eye around the home paddock
and, mooching off with an exaggerated
air of lazy nonchalance, began cutting
thistles in a far corner. Ten minutes
later, under cover of his hat, he again
snatched a hasty glance round. Ted got
up and went after him. “Hey, I thought
you wanted to catch the post-office?”
“Too right I do,” Bill grunted. “Don’t
let on. Too soon yet. He’d wake up t’
me.” Presently Bill’s thistle-cutting began
edging him along the fence. Time passed,
and steadily be worked towards the
opposite corner, head down, and emitting
an c ccasional weary grunt. Then, with a
quiet side-step, he reached a horse stand-
ing in the corner, grabbed off his belt, and
slipped it round the moke’s neck.
“Righto.” He nodded to Ted, and turned
homeward. “Ain’t a stump or rabbit left
in this ’ere paddock now,” he remarked,
as Ted came up. “Fences is all strained,
too, and mended, an’ once these thistles
is cut, cripes, I dunno how I’m goin’ to
fool this mad-’eaded nag inter thinkin’ it
ain’t him I’m after,”
« * « *
“B. A. Ker”; I’ll warrant that Camp-
belltown (N.S.W.) is seething like a
scratched antbed. Already the runners
will be on their way with the call to arms.
From a hundred hilltops the fiery cross
will blaze its turbulent message through
the night; and no loyal Campbell clanster
will hesitate before that imperious
summons. Many a lass will weep as she
assists her laddie to buckle on his clay-
more, but no daunted heart will urge him
stay. For this is no ordinary insult, no
mild slight that brave men can dismiss
with a contemptuous laugh. No! Never
since the bull’s-head was served on a
platter to the Black Douglas has such
treachery been perpetrated. Gather, then,
ye sons of Campbell, by the bridge that
proudly bears the sign “Fisher’s Ghost
Creek” ; then —onward! Onward, horse
and foot to Sydney town; and, by the
web of Bruce’s spider, ere the sun goes
down a certain scribe will regret that in
writing an historical article for an even-
ing newspaper he did give as fact that
Fisher and his ghost were residents of
Parramatta.
* * * *
“Kelms”: Some months back a
Bulletin contributor mooted the possi-
bility of large, shallow banks in the
Indian Ocean, and wondered if they could
be exploited. Indications are that they
will be—if they exist, and W.A. can supply
enough bullocks as bait. While the police
are removing that interjector with the
tinful of prawns I’ll explain. The bullocks,
if they’re in sufficient numbers, will entice
the owners of a couple of fishing-boats
from Mauritius, on the other side of the
ocean. Their aim will be to pick up some
fish from what a Perth daily airily de-
scribes as the Indian Ocean Banks, sell it
in some Westralian port, and backload
with bullocks. The venture should be a
success. You could get a couple of
bullocks for the price of a fair-sized
snapper in Perth.
* * * m
“S.E.”; Charlie and Stan were work-
ing down near the river when a thunder
developed in the west. Quickly the storm
approached, growling threats and warn-
ings, and as the first drops fell Stan dived
for the fence and the oiler he had left
there. “Looked silly bringing this, this
morning,” he remarked, “but I reckoned
it was too hot to last. Going to pour
d’rectly.” Then he remembered Charlie
hadn’t a coat, and that no shelter offered
anywhere handy. Charlie seemed un-
perturbed. Quietly he strolled to the bank
and proceeded to strip. Rolling his
clobber into a bundle he shoved it well
up into a hollow log, then took a header
into the river. For the next 15 minutes
or so the storm pelted down, while Stan
huddled on the bank, and Charlie swam,
or lay under water in the shallows. The
sun breaking through again, Charlie
“ He's getting better , doctor. Wed better put him on the danger-list
again!”
emerged, took a few turns up and down
in the warm air, then stopped at the log
to retrieve his clothes. “Cold in the
water?” queried Stan, reining in a shiver.
“Gosh, not at this time o’ the year,”
scoffed Charlie. “Warmer there than on
the hank.” He gave his pants a shake, and
climbed in. “Best way t’ handle a
thunderstorm,” he assured Stan cheerfully.
“Not only saves a bloke havin’ a bath
at home, but, better still, it saves him
gettin’ wet.”
♦ * * *
“Solitude”; Seventyfiver arranged him-
self ungracefully on the edge of the bar
and listened with one ear to young Car-
ruthers moaning about the Government,
the high price of feed and his poor stock.
“If they’d make more machinery avail-
able a man could grow a bit of feed for
himself,” he railed. “But how on earth
can he sow down a crop when he hasn’t
a tractor?” The old bloke slewed round
and eyed him mildly. “Well, he c’d do
the same as we done before there were
tractors,” he suggested. “What! Use
nags? Aw, yair?” came the sneer. “Any-
way, what do you know about plough-
ing?” “I done some in me time,” drawled
Seventyfiver. “Used t’ work from can-
see t’ can’t-see, with a double-furrer an’
three nags.” “Yair, and the place’d be
overrun with draughts.” “No, it weren’t,”
denied the old bloke. “Just the two teams,
an’ three or four youngsters cornin’ on,
that’s all; ’ceptin’ a couple o’ old ’uns
that was pensioned orf. Yair, it might be
ol’-fashioned,” he added, “but, by cripes,
we grew a lot o’ darned good hay in them
days.” Carruthers still looked doubtful.
“And did you keep the sheep and cattle
fat with it in bad times?” “Well, no,
there weren’t enough t’ chuck round like
that exactly,” answered the old bloke.
“Not sheep an’ cattle. But we used t’
build it inter big stacks for a reserve
supply, then all through the winter we
had it t’ feed out t’ the nags.”
“Zake”: These Kelly-wielders who
have been arguing the toss about the
hardest woods seem never to go beyond
such vegetables as ironbark, ironwood,
needlewood, marblewood, gidyea and
mulga. Strangely enough, these don’t
cause the sawmiller headaches such as are
given him when he -puts some of the
furniture timbers over the saws. Two of
the worst are the yellow and black
walnuts, both beautiful timbers. Their
high silica content makes them tough
on the saws, having the same effect
as grit. Tulip is another good furniture
timber that the sawmiller detests; in this
case the effect is to gum up the saws.
o * „ *, * ,
R.A.A. Sargent : Billy T. s analogy
between the Sydney Cricket Ground
mutton-bird colony
(B. 16/2 / 49) prompts me to ask
has he ever watched the peak-hour
crowd at Wynyard (Sydney)? Every
time I enter this subterranean truck-
ing-yard my mind goes back to
the west, and I hear again the bark of
the kelpies and collies, the sharp whistles
and commands of their masters. I feel
the sweat making rmid of the dust that
has worked inside my shirt and settled
along my backbone, and it’s all I can do
to repress a nostalgic sneeze from the dust
haze that seems to surround me. Up the
race they go to the platforms with con-
siderably less prodding than their woolly
counterparts, but with the same charac-
teristic expressions and behavior. Here
is the cranky wether butting his way
through the mob; there the patient old
ewe calling her lamb. Now the trucks
roar up to the head of the race, but here
the one false note is struck. For if we’d
packed sheep in like that we’d have had
the R.S.P.C.A. on our backs and a stiff
fine to foot.
• * * *
“Beamish”: The rising costs of house-
building materials seem to have caught
up with even the trapdoor spider. Cross-
ing an open paddock between the home-
stead and the township I was attracted
by a quick movement of a trapdoor clos-
ing his ingenious and costly front-door —
it was a sixpence!
• * * •
“Eley No. 4”: In what bush has
“Hanko” spent “half a lifetime” (B.
16/2/’49) if he has never seen a wood-
duck “floating” on water? Let him come
to our Victorian lakes “for the open-
ing” and he’ll soon learn that the only
way to get within range of the woodie
is by boat. Although usually a vege-
tarian getting its food on land, the
maned goose is equally at home
on water. Nevertheless, it often goes to
the other extreme, and, once stirred out
of its haunts by shooters, will fly miles
from water and hide by flattening out
on horizontal redgum limbs, like a
pigeon. Incidentally, I have yet to see
a woodie’s nest on the ground—they
favor high gum-trees. Anyway, they’re
too lousy to bother about; after pluck-
ing one you need a fine-tooth comb to
clean yourself.
* , * * *
“Bungle”: Billy Drew leant his hoe
against the fence and pulled out the
makings while he watched the slow, jolt-
ing approach of old Jennings on his way
to the siding with a couple of fats. One
thing, he reflected (flinching involuntarily
as the spring-cart hit a deeper pothole
than usual, and the driver rose inches off
the side rail), Harry ought to be in a
good humor for once. He was usually a
cantankerous old cow. Nothing ever suited
him. If it rained there was a blamed
flood cornin’; the cows were either so
fat and contented you had to drag them
to the yard, or else they were so skinny
they needed walking-sticks. His neigh-
bors either worked like a set of coolies
or were a collar-proud lot. Still, with
all those stacks of blue-metal piled along
the side of the road he should be in a
good mood this morning. The shire
was going to do up the roads at last.
Time, too. He’d have to agree with
Old Harry on that score. The roads were
a disgrace. The big half-draught bay
between the shafts came to a thankful
halt, dropped its head and rested the
offside back leg. “Sweating, eh?” Billy
said, conversationally, nodding his head
in greeting. “Needs a drink,” old
Jennings returned. “Always get her a
drink here after rain.” He boiled over
suddenly. “Always did, an’ now the
blamed fools are going to mend the pot-
holes where ’n hell do they think a
man will .water his horse now, after
ram?”
* * * *
Heresone”: A furious controversy
lately rent the northern capital over the
relative merits as songsters of the English
skylark and the black-throated butcher-
bird. Why the contestants picked two
such dissimilar performers passes com-
prehension. Several of our larks sing, on
the wing, a song that closely resembles
the one that entranced Shelley and James
Hogg* and the brown songlark in parti-
cular would be hard to beat. If anyone
really wants to settle it let him go to
Victoria, where the English bird, intro-
duced many years ago, is as common as
his rival. Whichever way the verdict goes,
we can’t lose. Calwell’s Nationality Act
would appear to have made the immi-
grants “dinkum Aussies,” though whether
they are more or less English on that
account is anybody’s guess;
* * * *
“Übet” t Had heard of the record bags
old Ernie collected on his wombat hunts.
When I came on him mooching up the
river-flat armed with no more than
mattock, shovel and one small, nonde-
script mong, I recalled the huge excava-
tions in the area, and mentally classed
Ernie as something from a past age.
Then I saw him at work. For a couple
of minutes he considered the wombat-
burrow, then turned to the waiting mong.
“Righto, Scrap,” he nodded. “Y’ better
call on ’em.” The little tyke dropped
into the mouth of the burrow and dis-
appeared. After a time there came a
muffled sound from below. Ernie kicked
away some sticks and rubbish, and put
an ear to the ground. Not satisfied, he
edged further and further along; then,
scratching a mark on the ground, col-
lected his tools and started to dig.
“Yair, it’s the easiest way o’ gettin’ ’em,
long as they ain’t too deep,” he answered
me. “An’ y’d be s’prised how many
burrers come up, towards the end. Scrap
crawls in right behind the wombat, and
lets go the location signal. Keeps it up,
too, till I shut ’im up. So all I got t’ do’s
put a hole down over Scrap an’ haul
the wombat out.”
♦ * * ♦
“Sackville”: I was a boy of 11, intent
on stocking my aviary with redheads and
“dykes” (diamond sparrows). From their
respective places along the creek my call-
birds whistled an invitation to their kin.
Crouching excitedly on one knee I
watched four dykes fly down near the
trap ; one flew up to the ledge and looked
in the open door ... “Hey, you!” The
voice nearly frightened me into falling in
the creek. On the opposite bank the new
bloke who’d bought the dairy was holler-
ing at me: “Listen here, son, if you want
the father of a hiding just do that again!
Think I spent all day sniggin’ them
stumps out of the crick so’s you could
start pushin’ ’em in again? Now, don’t
say I never warned yer—put just one
more stump in and I’ll cut your backside
off with this whip, see?” It was flattering
a boy of 11 to accuse him of doing tricks
with stumps that size, but my denials
didn’t sound convincing—even to me.
The following Saturday I was peacefully
setting the traps again when a flow of
fierce invective burnt my juvenile ears.
For a profane minute the dairyman stood
on the opposite bank vowing that no
other boy had been near the blood-
stained crick, and calling on his gods to
witness the number of sanguine stumps
that were now in the illegitimate creek;
then he bolted for the log that formed
a primitive bridge. He was a fast runner,
but he wasn’t as frightened as I was. Fear
won the race. The next day, from a safe
distance, I saw him snigging the stumps
out of the water, up the bank, and into
a heap 20 yards back. Scarcely had he
led the Clydesdale away before his Jersey
bull came down to investigate. There
were a few pushings with lowered head,
then the animal selected a stump, pushed
it here and there—and finished it up in
the creek. If I’d been a forgiving kid I’d
have told the dairyman. Instead, I con-
centrated on making sure of my alibis,
and exulted as the heap of stumps grew
smaller.
STATION PONIES.
Seventy miles since morning!
Hooked up as the magpies woke
And the last star left the sky;
Home at night with'their traces tight
And the lean brave heads held high;
That was the perfect yoke!
Seventy miles since morning!
All day in the blazing sun
O’er sandhill and ridge and plain;
Shoulders wet with the clinging sweat
And foam on the coupling-rein—
All day till the day was done.
Tossing their tangled manes,
Biting each other in play,
Each one as gay as a bird;
Never a flip from the idle whip
Or more than a cheery word
To keep them trotting away.
The roads of the bush grow shorter,
The long miles pass like a dream
As you lounge in your luxury cars,
But you’ll miss the beat of the twinkling feet
And the click of the swingle-bars
When you handled the perfect team.
SCOTLAND.
Will H. OGILVIE.


“Gravelsnatcher”; The North Wes-
tralian creeks—“rivers” by courtesy —play
queer tricks with the uninitiated. No old-
timer will camp in creek country after
midday in the cockeye season, since a
creek that is bone-dry at noon can be a
raging torrent at dusk, though no rain
may have fallen in the vicinity.
Had to take a “financier” from
Perth out to a mine near the
Kargan River. There were about
a dozen creeks between us and our des-
tination, but Big Business, who had no
knowledge of the country, wouldn’t con-
sider putting the trip off till the morn-
ing. Old Bob, one of the station-hands,
was in the back of the truck, and when
we hit the third creek, and found it
flooded, he endorsed my judgment. “Give
it to ’er,” he advised. “She might take
it.” She didn’t, and as we came to rest
with the engine under water Bob philo-
sophically climbed out and waded to the
bank. The Big Shot drew his legs up and
stayed put and, out of courtesy, I kept
him company until Bob, drying himself in
front of a fire, called out “Ain’t you
blokes cornin’ ashore tonight?” We went
ashore and camped. In the morning the
creek was dry—or near enough. I’ve
often thought I’d like to meet that Big
Shot again. Some of the things he didn’t
say that night were most insulting.
* * * *
“Tos”: Tasmania’s 30-million-year-old
fossil-flowers (B. 2/3/’49) are youngsters
beside a shark’s tooth that has been
found in limeworks at Parua in the north
island of New Zealand. It is 21in. long,
Hin. in width, and varying to five-eighths
of an inch in thickness, and has serrated
edges The Government geological head
estimates that the fang is 50 million years
old, the species of sea-lawyer which
owned it having passed out aeons ago.
Some time ago a similar tooth was also
found in sand in the Kaipara district of
the north island.
» * * ♦
“Wippegong”; Most of the elaborate
permanent-waves you see around are
blonde: chemical yellows and ersatz
creams ; but the most perfect sets I know
are soft black. Sometimes they’re in the
city but not of it, and if you try to edge
close the owners will glide quietly away;
so it’s best to use glasses, for they are on
the secondary feathers of a black swan’s
wing. The contrast between these and the
primaries is complete. The wing-tip
feathers are the white of fresh-cut ivory,
they are only slightly curved; they lie
close-folded and in repose are hidden,
yet in flight are the dominant feature and
“NOW let the cops chase us!”
flash in the sun even after the black has
merged in the distance. The secondaries
are dead black, they are so deeply ruffled
that the edges curl over like the top of a
breaking wave, they stand fluffed
up and give that roundness to the swan’s
upper deck, yet in flight are immediately
lost against the magnificent pinions that
sweep out beyond them. Now and then
you can see both sets illustrating their
utter difference; when the long neck
snakes down into the waterweed the wings
lift slightly, and if you’re astern of the
fowl you’ll see the curly astrakhan over-
coat standing clear of the smooth, taper-
ing quills beneath, as though the bird’s
body is bestraddled by some great milk-
white beetle. Approach the swans where
thev sneckle the entire waters of some of
t" 6 * specie me enure waters oi some or
the southern inlets and you 11 see a Sight
to remember. As they rise they’ll fan
out into one line abreast, flatten down
till pinions seem to flick the water, and set
the distance dancing like a western
mirage. There’s no finer sight in feathers
than a phalanx of swans with speed up
(“The Banjo” expressed it better), and
no sojmd can yank a nomad out of
suburbia with a swifter jerk than the
wh f 2 y ° £ swans m ° vin S *° new
water under the moon.
“Billy T.”; Friday afternoon in Pitt-
street. The usual thousands of strangers,
the usual race to get somewhere—if neces-
sary, over the bodies of those in front;
and a steady rain that added to the
scramble because most of the mob reacted
as though it were liquid poison. Then
along came a bloke from other parts.
You could pick him in a shot by the way
he never hurried through 'the rain, and,
as if in confirmation of the type, he
carried a sugarbag by the neck. The bag
wa s full; not symmetrically filled, but it
had lumps and bulges that strained at the
sides and should have warned any with
e y es t 0 see that it required room. Women
brushed against it, glared at the fellow,
and hurried, on—they’re used to this
scramble and can’t afford to stop ; the
fun wa s when those louts who like to
shove upstream on the wrong side banged
against it. There was a dull crack and
the smug leer was wiped off by the snarl
that took its place, but the bloke with the
bag, well on his proper side, never looked
back, so didn’t see the swaggers that
changed to limps. At Martin-place he
stopped and steadied the bundle against
his knee while he took his bearings. I
ranged alongside and our eyes met.
“Ironbarks?” I queried, looking down at
the cargo. He smiled, and shook his head,
“No”—and the drawl was like a breeze
from the ’Bidgee—“two Queensland Blues
and a Hubbard squash.”
• * *■ •
“M.U.R.”: I can tell “B. A. Ker” of
two cases “when two blokes fought it
out without an audience” (B. 23/3/’49).
The first was at Hamley Bridge (S.A.) in
1920 when a youth who had it in for me
sought me at 11 o’clock one night and
the pair of us went out into a side-street
and slogged it to a finish. The second
was one sunny Sunday afternoon in
Forbes (N.S.W.) when I got off my bike
near the flour-mill and went through the
fence to see if I could find a tap. Round-
ing a corner I came on two men, one
black, the other white, having an all-in
go in a little space between stacks of
wheat. I was the only witness, apart
from the defeated, of the black victory,
i agree that fellows seldom do fight with-
out a crowd to egg them on ; all the same,
it happens.
* * * •
“H.A.L.”: In quoting MacMillan
Brown’s theories about the statues on
Easter Island, “Nakhoda” is out of date
(B. 16/3/’49). Researches of ethnologists
such as Peter Buck have shown that the
original home of the Polynesian race was
in the mountains above the Indus valley
in north-west India. There they reached
a very high culture before barbarian
hordes from central Asia drove them
out. Some moved into Europe; others
migrated to the Coromandel coast of
India, whence in their big sailing canoes
they explored and colonised every habit-
able island in the Pacific. Split into small
communities they forgot nearly all their
ancient arts and crafts except the making
of stone platforms known as maraes and
found all through Polynesia and parts of
Micronesia. The statues on Easter Island
and the Marquesas are vestiges of that
culture. The making of the big Easter
Island statues would not involve
enormous labor. The rock is a soft
volcanic tufa, easily pounded into shape
with harder stones, and teams of men with
ropes and wooden rollers can shift very
big weights. The descendants of the
statue-makers were on the down-grade
culturally, through isolation and inbreed-
"No need to throw so viciously , Bert; you're not at home, you know.”
ing, when the Peruvian slavers carried
most of them off to die in the silver-mines.
“Bogaduck”: Ethnologists now dis-
count the idea that in recent times big
islands, carrying a large population of
advanced people, have been engulfed by
the sea through some titanic eruption.
Geological evidence doesn’t point that
way, and there is a much simpler explana-
tion to account for legends such as that
of Atlantis. When the last Ice Age ended
and the huge polar ice-caps melted, the
oceans gradually rose to their former
levels, covering low-lying islands, some
of which may have been inhabited, and
forcing shore-living communities to move
to higher ground. The evidence of early
navigators who allegedly saw the lights
of big cities on the coast of some Pacific
islands is probably a highly-imaginative
account of seeing the torches carried by
natives as they speared fish on a reef.
* • « ♦ *
“Sarina”: Camouflage isn’t dependent
on quiet coloring (B. 23/2/’49); it is,
though, dependent on the bird or beast
practising it being similar in hue to its
surroundings. Whereas a curlew must
lie doggo on a heap of dry, fallen leaves
to evade detection, a parrot must dive into
a thick-leaved bush, allowing the green of
the leaves to submerge its own plumage.
(No parrot can hide itself more com-
pletely in a lantana bush than the
common crimson-wing.) But camouflage
does not hide ground-nesting birds against
dingoes, foxes, tame dogs and cats. Sense
of smell guides these killers to the feast.
« * ♦ •
“Old-timer”: Dash-me-rags Smith took
on a contract to keep a woodpile for the
Murray boats, assembled his wagon and
camping gear, and moved into the land-
ing. There he took on as partner
young Hoyle, from down the river,
good axeman and cheery worker.
The weeks passed and the wood-
pile grew, more and more steamers
began to draw on it and the part-
ners’ cash reserves expanded. But
visitors to the camp noticed a
strained air. Hoyle seemed cheer-
ful and verbose enough, but Dash-
me-rags said little, and the more
observant noted that he seemed to
watch Hoyle’s every movement.
Then the partnership dissolved, and
when Dash-me-rags hit Euston and
got a few in the truth came out.
“He was too bloomin’ familiar,” he
complained. “Didn’t mind him
usin’ me axes an’ sometimes takin’
the wrong pannikin be mistake,
but it got pretty tough when he
wanted t’ play me gramophone an’
borrowed me tape-measure t’
measure up the pile. Seemed t’
think he could drive me horses,
too, when we loaded the wagon.
Well, I didn’t mind that, neither,
seein’ we was partners. But he
went too far Sundee. I’m greasin’
me wagon an’ hear someone talkin’.
an’ dash me rags if he ain’t kiddin’t’ me
dawg. So I goes over t’ him an’ says,
‘Here, dash me rags, y’re a bit hot, ain’t
y’?’ He looks at me an’ says, ‘Well,
strike me fat, can’t a man even talk t’
y’r flamin’ dawg?’ ‘No,’ I says. ‘Y’
can’t. Y’re makin’ too free aroun’ here
altogether,’ I says. An’ dash me rags
if he don’t sling his gear together
an’ pull out. Trouble with these young
blokes is they get big idears before their
ears is dry.”
* * * *
“E.”: Smithie eyed the formation of
holes Dad was sinking and correctly
diagnosed their meaning. “Shifting your
sheepyards?” he inquired in surprise,
“Yair,” snorted the old bloke. “Lot o’
damn’ nonsense. Dunno what the world’s
cornin’ to, hanged if I do.” “What?
Strikes, taxes, material and labor short-
ages?” “No. This blasted emaciation o’
women, or whatever they call it,” came the
growl. “Man dunno where he is these
days. Gettin’ ideas they go I ‘rights’ an’
such rubbish. Gripes”—he drove the bar
in viciously—“they’ll be wantin’ half-a-
day a week orf next, an’ askin’ for
pocket-money.” “Er —yair.” Sjmithie
glanced down the paddock to where Mum
was energetically hoeing maize. “Yair,
but” “There ain’t no buts!” roared
Dad. “I tell y’, women ain’t what they
used t’ be. Take Mum now.” He dropped
on to a log and watched the bobbing
sunbonnet. “Been a fair-enough worker.
Mum has. Could always do a stretch o’
hoein’ or fern-slashin’ without havin’ t’
take more’n a normal amount o’ time orf
t’ cook up a feed. So, seein’ she’s gettin’
on, I give her a day orf a month, an’ let
’er join that there women’s association
in town. Huh! Might’s well try bein’
good to a nag, the way they play up on
y’.” “Yes,” Smithie soothed, “but what
are you shifting your sheepyards for?
That flat by the road is miles better than
over here behind the ridge.” “I know,”
snapped Dad. “Ain’t I just been tellin’
y’? It’s all on account o’ this high-’n’-
mighty idea o’ Mum’s that it ain’t proper
for ’er society friends t’ see ’er doin’ a
good honest day’s blade-crutchin’! ”
♦ * ♦ *
“Simon”: I take issue with “Jim N.”
(B. 16/3/’49). The slowest shearer on
the board is the “drummer,” not “cob-
bler.” The cobbler is the last sheep in
the catching-pen. The shearers as they
go in for a sheep will naturally select the
one they consider the easiest shearing,
leaving the culls, from a shearer’s stand-
point, to the last. Last one of all is
called the “cobbler.” A shearer just
missing that “choice” would have first
pick of the new pen, and the vast differ-
ence between the two often leads shearers
to “camp” on their last sheep so that the
other fellow would get the rough ’un.
* * ♦ *
“Bo*’ > Dad was replacing a post in the
roadside fence. “Gooda da morn’,” a
voice broke in on his labors. “I looka for
da mans called-a” —here there was a
snapping of fingers to assist memory—
“S. Tait?” Dad put down his crowbar,
pulled out his pipe, and looked at the
obvious Italian migrant. “Dunno any
S. Tait round these parts,” he replied
thoughtfully. “There’s a Ben Tait a few
miles away over the gully; there’s on’y
him an’ his missus an’ his two sons, Tim
an’ Abe. So it) wouldn’t be them.” “No,
this-a man he sella da land,” went on the
Itie. Dad was emphatic now. “Well, that
makes it certain it ain’t him. Ben knocked
back an offer on’y last week for eight
quid an acre. Anyway, he’s just bought a
noo tractor, an’ he wouldn’t be goat
enough to do that if he was thinkin’ o’
sellin’ out.” The oily-haired one spread
his hands. “Thees-a man no farm.
He” Dad rammed tobacco in his
pipe stolidly. “There useter be a Mick
Tate here —he was the secretary o’ the
local show. Died about six year ago.
Biggest nagger y’ ever struck. Noo every-
one’s business. His missus was a bit of
a tartar, too. Oh, an’ I forgot,” went on
Dad with a burst of jocosity. “There’s a
Dick Tate here —she’s up in the kitchen
now” —and he chuckled at his own joke.
“No, no,” Itie burst out impatiently.
“Thees-a S. Tait he what you call-a da,
what-a you say, a-gent.” Sorrowfully Dad
pocketed his pipe, wearily reached for the
crowbar and pointed down the road.
“The township’s down there, Tony. Ask
for Bert Atkins, an’ watch out he don’t
sell y’ a granite outcrop to grow lucerne
on”
BLACKBIRD.
There’s a navvy in my garden
And he’s digging ’neath the shrubs:
Earth and leaves he’s turning over
In his search for worms and grubs.
I can see the earth go flying
As he tosses it at will,
Working soft and loamy corners—
And his shovel is his bill.
He’s been at it all the morning,
And he’ll keep it up till late,
For he has to turn it over
From my front door to my gate:
Who would guess that he’s a singer
In his shirt of common black? —
Oh, a navvy is the blackbird
As he bends his feathered back.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


m
tsm
I
I
PORT
Swelling, Soreness
Relieved by
MOIST HEAT
The moist heat of an
Antiphlogistine poultice relieves
pains, reduces swelling, limbers
up stiff, aching muscles due to
simple sprains, bruises or similar
conditions. Used by many
doctors all over the wofld.
It’s easy to get the
benefits of moist
heat. Just apply
Antiphloglstlne poultice
hot enough to be
comfortable—then feel
the moist heat go right
to work on sore, aching
parts.
ẃ
ẅ
Does your Will
express your
present wishes?
is a good time to review your Will and !o ask
yourself whether it expresses your present wishes.
In doing so carefully consider your choice of Execu-
tor. The duties have never been so arduous as now.
An ever increasing number of professional and
business men are appointing Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as Executor. They recognise that an Executor’s
duties are highly specialised; they recognise the value
of the experience and protection provided by the
Company.
You are invited to call and discuss your Estate
problems, in confidence, with a senior officer of the
Company.
If you prefer, write for a copy of the Company's
booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee,” that explains the
services rendered by the Company and what they cost.
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY
LIMITED
Trust and Agency Funds
under administration exceed
£67,000,000 (The average
Estate being less than
£10,000).
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT • UNDER POWER OF
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
& OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR,
ETC.
Directors:
Hon. T. A. 3. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C., Chairman; B. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS; Hon. J. P. ABBOTT, M.H.R.; D. R. LYSAGHT,
SAMUEL HORDERN; H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director.
A. 0, ARMYTAGE, Manager,
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA, TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
“Labor's” Achievement
“Raise wages, peg prices” runs
one of the sophistic Communist
slogans of the present day. These
are being painted on wails, along
roads and railway-lines in
Sydney suburbs and other parts.
Another of the same sort is
“Wall-street wants war,” even
though Wall-street quakes every
time there is a suggestion of war
with the Communists’ beloved
fatherland—Soviet Russia.
On two occasions over the past
seven years the electorate has
voted the Federal “Labor” party
back into office. “Labor” itself
has encouraged the Communist
programme. The “Labor”
policy of “full employment re-
gardless of production”—which
is what it amounts capti-
vated the trade-unionist’s imagi-
nation for some years. And
“Labor” has taxed the man on a
larger income at a rate that is
often a multiplication of the rate
charged the man on a lower one,
and out of this taxation vote-
buying ffias gone on on an un-
scrupulous scale, without regard
to equity or incentive. The man
who pays the greatest taxes for
social security has the least
chance of obtaining any social-
security benefit in his old age.
The thrifty are penalised to the
advantage of the spenders.
The rich man has always been
in decency bound to help the
poor and the sick. But there is
nothing in nature which says that
the hard Worker should help the
drone, especially where the hard
worker has to risk his health and
strength in the efforts to do what
is absolutely necessary in order
to keep his country industrially
efficient. The would-be hard-
worker is often ridiculed as a
“mug” or a “scab” if he attempts
to do what he knows is no more
than a fair thing in return for
his pay. And, anyway, he is
robbed by his loafing fellows if
he does work hard, oecause their
loafing inflates the costs he has
to pay when he goes to spend his
wages.
“Raise wages, peg prices” runs
the Communist slogan. You
cannot do this unless you in-
crease production ; and produc-
tion is the thing which the Com-
munists, while fostering all the
discontent possible over wages
and prices, are deliberately keep-
ing at a minimum by all the
means at their disposal. To raise
wages while pegging prices and
not increasing production in re-
turn for those higher wages would
simply mean that people sell-
ing their production for pegged
prices would go out of business,
and lack of production would
give higher costs and the black-
market a further impetus.
The Chifley “Labor” party has
assisted the Communists in their
calculated attacks on Australian
living standards and economic
stability. Chifleyism in many
ways has run parallel with Com-
munism. Chifley socialism has
reduced efficiency, increased
costs and killed productive en-
thusiasm. Thrift and enterprise,
under Chifley, have been denied
their legitimate rewards. Too
many jobs of an unproductive
nature have been made by poli-
tical means for undeserving
people.
The ideal of a fully employed,
prosperous people in a country
progressing in population and
security has been made a com-
plete sham by the Chifley
Socialists; they have employed
all the legalistic means to achieve
their alleged aims, but they lack
the skill, tire moral principles, the
equity and the political courage
to implement what they have
professed to be their aims in
years gone by. Instead,
Chifleyism has developed into a
kind of socialism in which the
most extravagant vote-buying
and blatant political sophistry
and misrepresentation are mixed
up with totalitarian control of the
national finances. Through ex-
cessive taxation, huge Budget ex-
penditure and political control
of the country’s financial
mechanism plus trade-union
domination of “Labor” Caucus
—the Australian economy has
been reduced to a level in keep-
ing with the ability and integrity
of its political masters. In other
words, productivity and trans-
port arrangements have become
demoralised.
“Raise wages, peg prices.”
What a fallacy in present circum-
stances! But it is no more a
fallacy than “Labor’s” “full-
employment” policy that results
in less production per man-hour,
and often less total production.
And so more and more unions
rush to the Arbitration Court
“But what work would I have to do as your side-kick ?"
for higher money wages that add
nothing to the general buying-
power, because production is not
rising correspondingly.
Two things have Chifleyism
and Communism undoubtedly
given Australia a lower
standard of living and an in-
creased cost of living. Taken
together they mean inflation.
Tasmanian Board Mills, Ltd.
This will be Tasmania’s third
big timber-paper project—dis-
tinct from those of Australian
Newsprint Mills, Ltd., and Asso-
ciated Pulp and Paper Mills,
Ltd., and the latter’s several
affiliations. The objective of
Tasmanian Board Mills is to
make container-board (already
being done on the mainland by
Australian Paper Manufacturers,
Ltd.), for which there will be a
large unsatisfied demand, the
directors believe, even after their
mill is fully operating.
T.B.M. is making a first public
issue three years after its regis-
tration, and the long tussle with
Capital Issues Control has evi-
dently resulted in big contrac-
tions or postponements of the
original plans, especially those
relating to by-production. Capi-
tal is now expected to be less
than £1 million, compared with
the 1946 estimate of £3 million.
The public issue (underwritten
by lan Potter and Co.) is of
500,000 £1 ords. at par. Another
£230,000 is issued for the
timber-milling business of K. D.
Atkins, Ltd., which is being taken
over as a going concern.
K. D. Atkins, Ltd., hasn’t been
associated with papermaking,
but will provide cutting, milling
and seasoning plants, as well as
forestry concessions. Its present
capital comprises 50,000 5 p.c. £1
prefs. (listed in Melbourne six
months ago) and 60,000 £1 ords.
(unlisted). The prefs. are being
exchanged for similar T.B.M.
prefs. on a share-for-share basis,
whilst each ord. is being traded
for three T.B.M. ords. This total
scrip-payment of £230,000 for
the Atkins business compares
with its net tangible assets of
£115,591 according to the
balance-sheet last June, although
a recent revaluation of the fixed
assets puts them £68,973 higher
than in the books.
For the last five years K. D.
Atkins profits, after adjusted tax
on a public-co. basis, have aver-
aged £13,870. These activities
will continue and “provide pref.
dividends and additional re-
serves” for the parent T.B.M.
during the latter’s non-paying,
establishment period—estimated
at 2\ years.
The container-board will be
made by a neutral sodium-sul-
phite process, regarded as more
economical than the usual
alkaline high-pressure-cooking
methods. Experimental tests
with Tasmanian eucalypt in U.S.
mills are said to have given satis-
factory results. Site of the mill
will be at Killafaddy (on the
North Elk River, handy to Laun-
ceston). The plant will have a
capacity of 30 to 35 tons of
board per 24-hour day. Reckon-
ing on an annual sale of 8400
tons at £5O a ton, the prospectus
estimates annual profits at
£120,000 after paying tax at
present rates. That would repre-
sent 17 p.c. on an ordinary
capital of £690,000 after satisfy-
ing the prefs.
T.B.M.’s board is I. N. Holy-
man (chairman); K. D, Atkins;
K. C. Holyman and R. J.
McArthur.
Offshoot of an Australian
concern, Henry Berry, Ltd., Wel-
lington (N.Z.) is issuing 100,000
f.-p. ords. of 10s. each, at 21s. a
share. The co. has been a sub-
sidiary of Henry Berry and Co.
(A/sia), Ltd., Melbourne,
for 60 years. Acting-
chairman R. Olham said
in Melbourne that the
surplus of £68,000 (in-
' eluding exchange pre-
mium) from the sale of
shares in Maoriland
would be used to finance
Australian business. Half
of the paid capital of
£lOO,OOO will still be held
by the parent co. No
divs, have been paid since
1942, although the co.
claims profits have been
satisfactory, with £15,476
for the latest year, against
£11,991 in 1947 and
£10,646 in 1946. Funds have
been nursed for (business ex-
pansion. Now divs. are start-
ing again, 10 p.c. for the year
ended June 30, 1948, with new
shareholders fully participating,
and a second div., for the year
ending June 30 next, not far off.


— __
TO DRAW P
k
K
TflA
r\
/
Wm
Try your aptitude for Com*
mercial Art by submitting, foe
free expert criticism, copies of
test drawings from our presen*
tation booklet, "Art Ability
Tests".
m
Commercial Art will appeal to you. *
Leading professionals will check over your
work', without cost to you. If you have •
flair for drawing and sketching, there are
quite possibly big opportunities for you
in the Commercial Art world. So write
tonightl The booklet you will receive I*
handsomely illustrated and the question*
naire intensely practical.
S£AfJ> 7WS .
ART TRAINING INSTITUTE,
80 Swanston Street, Melbourne.
Please send me your illustrated''32-page
booklet ART ABILITY TESTS. I enclose
sd. for registered postage.
Name
(Mr-. Mrs., or Miss)
Address », ~ , ~ M ~ M M
». •« •• ,« •, .. •• ~ State *• ~ ~
Bui. 30/3/’49
MACSON
■JI
LATHES
Ideal for Garage and Country Workshops
mm
m
m
“MACSON” B£in. CONE HEAD LATHES
may be ordered for early delivery
SPECIFICATIONS;—
• BJin. Centre by Bft. Gap Bed.
• Quick Change Gearbox.
• Rapid Action to Saddle.
• Headstock with large hollow spindle.
• Machine complete with two speed countershaft.
• Standard single toolholder is supplied in place of square
turret illustrated.
• The tray supplied as extra.
Illustrated leaflets describing our full range of MACSON LATHES are available POST FREE.
Further Details on Request from
ersons
Ltd.
Selling Agents for
ASSOCIATED MACHINE TOOLS AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
546-566 Collins Street, Melbourne—ll 6-130 Waymouth Street, Adelaide—26o Kent
Street, and 51 Bathurst Street, Sydney—s 32 Murray Street, Perth
Shares and Trends
Last week saw further de-
clines in Australian share prices,
B.H.P. selling at 545. 6d., as
against a “high” of 595. 3d. this
year. The weaker U.S. lead-
zinc market has had an influ-
ence on any stock with the
name “Broken Hill” in it, and
the coal and manpower position
still makes it impossible for the
Newcastle and Port KemHla
steelworks to carry on at full
capacity. But earnings of
B.H.P. should be up to past
standards, and the future is as
promising as anything in Aus-
tralia.
Overseas there was an im-
portant development last week.
Canada made a big cut in taxa-
tion rates, and Finance Minister
Abbott said that post-war infla-
tipn appeared to have run its
course in the Dominion. No
significant increase in the cost
of living is expected this year.
At the same time, a fall in the
cost of living was recorded in
the U.S.A.
In Australia living costs con-
tinue to rise, and in other
respects we are out of step with
overseas trends. Inadequate
production, coupled with vicious
pressure for higher money
wages, is still this country’s
big handicap. This handicap
made a suggested alteration in
the exchange rate on London
more illogical than ever; but
last week rumors of an altera-
tion were in wide circulation.
High costs and low output are
still a great embarrassment to
Australian industry, but inves-
tors in sound industrial shares
should take a long view of share-
market conditions. Inflation is
still “on” in Australia.
Impression Textiles, Ltd.
It’s three months since share-
holders were told by the board
of Impression Textiles—on
whom a receiver for the Nat-
ional Bank moved in last week
—that with its new plant and
premises the co, “should be in a
much better position to earn
satisfactory profits.” The board
was then reporting a loss of
£5256 for the year ended June
30, 1948 —the first term as a
public co. Now a further trading
loss is admitted for the eight
months ended February.
Impression Textiles had been
registered as a proprietary in
1940 to specialise in the dyeing
and printing of fabrics and tex-
tiles—a new field which attracted
several others about that time.
Capital was £25,000, and after a
loss of £1147 in 1941, profits
averaging £2337 were declared
in the next six terms. Applica-
tion was made for official listing
early in 1948 after a par issue
of a further 25,000 £1 ords.,
which was needed to build a fac-
tory at St. Marys (N.S.W.) and
to modernise plant. (Plant spec-
ially installed for defence con-
tracts during the war had been
“disposed of or scrapped.”)
Soon after the shares were
listed, at about 235. 6d., in Feb-
ruary, 1948, Lester Stirling
Henry left the board and was re-
placed by S. H. Shaw. (Other
directors are W. S. Whitmore, G.
Solomon, H. H. Stitt and A. C.
Wilkinson.) Around that time
Mr. Stirling Henry had legal dis-
putations with a company called
Stirling Pty., Ltd., of which he
himself was a director, and
which sold out its shareholding
of £2776 in Impression Textiles
during the 1947-48 term.
Meanwhile, Impression Tex-
tiles proceeded with its St. Marys
plans, also took over Gilkes and
Co. Pty., a similar dyeing and
printing business at Camper-
down (N.S.W.), and appointed
H. W. Gilkes as its manager.
Whatever the purchase price
agreed upon for the Gilkes busi-
ness, it has now apparently been
waived altogether by the vendor
“by reason of the trade loss”
disclosed last term.
Impression Textile’s balance-
sheet at June 30, 1948, showed
fixed assets at £33,950 (up
£20,650 over the twelvemonth);
stocks at £47,356 (up £34,585);
and other tangible assets at
£6760. Liabilities of £46,907 (up
£35,609) included a £28,700 over-
draft from the National Bank,
and left the £1 shares with net
tangible cover of 16s. 7d. each.
In explanation of the year’s
£5256 loss, the board said that
the volume of commission print-
ing had practically ceased
through a “lack of supplies of
raw fabric for printing” ; hence
the co, was forced to buy its
own materials and carry much
bigger stocks. On the other
hand the loss was also said to
be “due to a large extent to the
fall in the value of merchandise
and the writing-down of stocks
to market value.” The co.’s
auditor, A. T. Wiltshire, who
didn’t seek re-election at the
meeting in December, remarked
in his report that “the deprecia-
tion of £1471 shown in the ac-
counts is calculated at a lower
rate than usually adopted by this
company.” In the previous term,
when plant was little more than
one-third the present figure,
£2367 had been written off.
Explaining the appointment of
the receiver in a letter to share-
holders last week, the board says
the transfer to St. Marys was
unexpectedly delayed and pro-
duction consequently slowed
down. But “full working time
has just been reached and profit-
able operations are in prospect,”
it says.
A sharpening competitive at-
mosphere in textiles, resulting
from greater overseas supplies
and our war-expanded local
capacity, appears to be a funda-
mental cause of the co.’s
troubles. The National Bank’s
chairman, H. D. Giddy, was
himself one of the earliest
prophets of this new situation.
N.Z. Pine Forests
Foresters in New Zealand will
have to step on it to keep pace
with the growth of their 800,000
acres of exotic forests, or mil-
lions of trees will die of old-age
before they are cut and mar-
keted. Chairman David Henry,
of N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd.,
says trees must be turned into
money 20 times faster than to-
day, and on a 20-year growing
cycle forestry concerns must
plan to chop, mill and replant
40.000 acres yearly when opera-
tions are in full swing. Bean-
stalk conditions for pines, water ,
resources and power are M.L.’s
assets as it pushes ahead with
development schemes. Handi-
caps are soaring labor costs,
which make cos. wince under
every new wage-increase, short-
age of men, price-controls and
Treasury greed, which robs
forest enterprises of earnings
needed for development, while
shareholders wait for prospects
of divs. So far the softwood
forests have a record of large
and expanding operations for
diminutive profit, and the blame
must be laid mainly at the
State’s backdoor for fleecing
them in their tender years.
It’s a shortsighted policy, for
prosperity in the industry would
pay the State handsomely in the
long run ; but the cos. are making
slow headway against it. Henry
forecasts that up to 100,000 tons
of M.L. softwoods will be
shipped Australiawards annually
within four years, and the total
will go on rising. More distant
markets eager to buy are Africa,
India and other parts of Asia.
Within a generation M.L. dairy-
farmers, who have had half a
century start, might see timber
romping ahead of them as the
country’s No. 1 export. Allur-
ing prospect, no less for 45,000
Australian shareholders than for
25.000 Maorilanders with money
sunk in N.Z. Forest Products’
shares, not to mention investors
in Whakatane scrip and other
timber, pulp and paper concerns.
Maoriland Iron-sands
Halting supplies of iron and
steel, mainly from Australia, are
a spur to New Zealand efforts to
exploit its iron-sands, which are
richest on the Taranaki coast,
but are found along scores of
miles of M.L.’s extensive coast-
line. For months past the
D.S.I.R. (N.Z.’s opposite-number
to Australia’s C.5.1.R.) has been
making ready for large-scale
tests by the State Iron and Steel
Department of the glittering
black sands pounded by the Tas-
man Sea. Highest grades of the
hidden wealth are on the North
Taranaki shore, carried and de-
posited there by tide, wind and
river. In some places iron-sand
dunes are rich in ore, but the
highest grade is in the wet beach-
sands. A narrow belt s.-w. of
the Waiwakaiho River, near
Fitzroy, New Plymouth, has an
estimated half-million tons of
concentrate in 1,120,000 tons of
iron-sand.
What M.L. wants to know is
whether its iron-sands can make
it self-supporting in iron and
steel, and the answer will depend
partly on whether nature keeps
up the supply of sand as industry
digs it away. Past experiments
haven’t led anywhere, but science
has made strides since then, and
hopes are staked today on re-
search which has harnessed iron-
sands elsewhere. In M.L.
museums are knives and steel
articles of high quality made
from black sands last century by
methods that would look primi-
tive now. High-grade sand con-
centrate. free from sulphur and
other impurities, contains up to
50 p.c. of iron, 9 p.c. to 10 p.c.
of titanium dioxide, nearly
0.4 p.c. of vanadium pentoxide,
and quantities of silicon, phos-
phorus and other elements. Pure
titanium is 30 p.c. stronger than
steel, and is only half the weight,
resists corrosion, and rivals stain-
less steel and light aluminium
alloys.
For the tests M.L. is using an
electric furnace. If this opens
the door for an iron-and-steel in-
dustry a cheer will go up from
end to end of Ne\y Zealand.


ISINCE!
1647
■
*
r
v
MAKERS
OF GOOD WINE
FOR MORE THAN!
-A CENTURY—
PERSONAL ITEMS
At the G.-G.’s investiture in Melbourne
Flight-Lieutenant C. N. Sandford col-
lected a D.S.O. On Bougainville he led two
white n.c.os., eight police-boys and 100
Kanakas armed with bows, arrows and
axes against the Japs for nine months.
On one occasion his jungle-fighters caught
the men of a Jap camp massed on the
parade-ground. When the flail of arrows
and razored machetes ceased, there was
nothing much left worth recording. Sand-
ford’s is the second D.S.O. in the family
—his brother won that award and a
D.F.C. in command of a Beaufighter
squadron in the Pacific.
Arthur Hall, new Westralian Railways
Commissioner, is well-primed for the job.
He came to Australia last year from
India, where he was director-general of
Pakistan’s railways. Before that he man-
aged India’s n.-w. railways, and was the
man picked by Mountbatten, then
Viceroy, to divide the country’s railways
in accordance with partition. The job re-
quired switching thousands of Moslem
and Hindu workmen, and dividing moun-
tains of rolling-stock and stores, but Hall
managed it in the allotted time—six
weeks. Another effort of his was
building the Khyber Pass railway, a tenth
of which runs through tunnels. War-time
responsibility for routing the waxing flow
of men and materials across India to
Burma also fell to him, so that manage-
ment of the Gropers’ 3ft. 6in. boneshakers
shouldn’t worry him unduly. He is 56,
and is married to an Australian.
Billy Hughes won’t be the only Welsh-
man in the Canberra talking-shop if 34-
year-old Malcolm McColm follows up his
Liberal preselection victory by winning
the Bowman (Q.) seat at the next Federal
elections. There may not be much of a
Welsh sound about the candidate’s names
as stated above, but when he signs in full
there is a Llewellyn in between them, and
h'e was born at Barry, in Glamorganshire,
so his credentials would probably pass
the scrutiny of the Cymmrodorion
Society, McColm was a squadron-leader
in the war and was shot down over
Europe. He made three breaks from a
German Stalag, his perseverance in these
attempts bringing him a mention in dis-
patches. He is now an inspector in the
Queensland Bureau of Industry.
Paul McGuire, whose book There's
Freedom for the Brave was praised by
American critics, is a South Australian,
son of a former Railways Commissioner.
He left Adelaide Uni. with the Tinline
Scholarship for English, which literary
effort was the precursor of over 40 books,
mostly Whodunits. Lately he has turned
to world affairs for subjects. He was with
R.A.N. Intelligence in Hitler’s war, and
the access to battle-summaries and action-
reports he enjoyed there resulted in sloop
Yarra’s story, The Price of Admiralty.
His travel-book, Australian Journey, was
studied by the Duke of Kent when
he was mooted as Australia’s G.-G., to
assimilate local conditions. McGuire has
met G. B. Shaw—walking down the
Strand in London he accidentally jostled
him off the footpath.
James Stuart MacDonald, a proved
friend to Australian artists, is the new
chairman of the Federal Art Advisory
Board: he succeeds Victor Mann, who
died last year. Melbourne-born 69 years
ago, MacDonald learned his art in
his home-town’s National Gallery School,
and later in London and at Julien’s, Paris.
He taught art in New York for five years,
and was director of Sydney’s National
Gallery before he shifted to the Mel-
bourne gallery in 1936. MacDonald is a
sound painter and incisive writer —he
owns to several books published, and
for years was Melbourne “Herald’s” art
critic—and is too honest to disguise his
contempt of “modern” art movements.
Among the first batch of English
doctors landed in Melbourne to join the
R.A.N., critically lacking in that branch,
is a Royal Navy man, Surgeon-Com-
mander R. Coplans, who, for a noncom-
batant, certainly saw his share of combat.
He was at Dunkirk in Fleetsweeper
Hebe, which took Lord Gort off the
beach at La Panne. Not long afterwards
he crossed to Canada as s.m.o. of an
R.N. contingent sent to pick up the 50
old American destroyers loaned for the
Atlantic battle ; he served for a year in
one of them. His next job was in carrier
Indefatigable on Russian convoys, and he
saw her launch her Barracuda brood on
three strikes at the Tirpitz. In 1944
Coplans did a special course in naval-
aviation medicine in England, and at the
cease-fire was in the Pacific in that
beautiful cruiser with name to match.
Black Prince. Current address, Nowra
Air Station; job. Senior Medical Officer.
In Brisbane’s coming municipal melee
the Citizens’ Municipal Organisation’s
candidate for Windsor, Dr. J. Ryan, can
fairly claim submarine experience in the
last war, as well as the first M.C. to be
won in that scrap by an Australian
medico. He got the M.C. in the first
Libyan campaign, and the experience in
an Itie sub. which interrupted his escape
from Crete. Followed 10 months’ p.-0.-w.
camp time. Repatriated, he went to New
Guinea for more, and finished the war a
lieutenant-colonel.
“D.E.”: It would have been a dis-
grace to the Liberals had W. M. Hughes
been refused the party nomination for
Bradfield (B. 23/3/’49). One part of
Billy’s make-up which has never failed
him is his memory, which remains mar-
vellous. A Bulletin veteran who rather
fancied himself on that score had to
confess his inferiority after a chat about
Charlie Frazer, who was with Billy in
the second (1910-13) Fisher Ministry.
Though the scribe and Frazer were pals
at Kalgoorlie for years, and never lost
touch with one another, Billy remembered
more than his interrogator about a col-
league dead 35 years, even to domestic
affairs. Yet in the meantime the wonder-
ful old boy must have met hundreds,
indeed thousands, of figures more sig-
nificant to him than poor Frazer.
What Ewen Waterman, here dia-
grammed by Coventry, doesn’t know
about wool simply isn’t knowledge.
Formerly attached to the sheep-produce
department of Goldsbrough Mort in S.
Australia, as head-classer on many big
S.A. and N.S.W. stations he classed some
of those States’ heaviest clips. Later he
joined the company’s technical staff. Now
he has been appointed Australian Wool
Board representative on the International
Wool Secretariat in London. Also chair-
man of directors of Ozone Theatres —he
and his five brothers own 34 film-houses
in S.A., Victoria and N.S.W—he was
responsible during World War II for a
WOOL.
large part of the entertainment troops
enjoyed in S. Australia, and is an invet-
erate letter-writer.
Sir David Ross, chairman of the royal
commission on the British Press,
has been sitting on investigating boards
for the past 12 years. He has delved into
subjects ranging from the Yorkshire
woollen trade and health of cotton card-
room workers to holidays-with-pay and
conscientious objectors. A son of the
one-time principal of the Maharajah’s
College in Travancore, his professorial
man-of-parts range includes membership
of the American Philosophical Society,
vice-chancellorship of Oxford’s Oriel
College, professorship of moral philo-
sophy at the same University and, apropos
his present ferreting, authorship of The
Foundation of Ethics in 1939.
“Becks”; Wilfred Neill, for whom the
curtain was rung down recently in Ade-
laide, was a founder of the Adelaide
Repertory Theatre and for many years
one of its shining lights. Neill was a
man for whom the play was the thing
all the time; he immersed himself in a
part and, when preparing for a role,
played it on and off the stage. Repertory
audiences remember him best as Sylvanus
Heythorp, the barnacled old shipowner
of Galsworthy’s “Old English.” In in-
terpreting that character he based his
voice, gait and mannerisms on Peter Hag-
gart, a former shipping identity of
Adelaide. The result was a gem of
characterisation. Off-stage, Neill wielded
a pen for the Adelaide Steamship Com-
pany and, in the long ago, a lacrosse
racquet for his State against a Canadian
touring side. A Digger of the First
A.1.F., he made occasional intrusions into
The Bulletin’s Red Page
Charles Dearden, here presented by
Mcßeath, is the sort of cove who tells
you he’s done nothing worth repeating
and then lets drop a few reminiscences of
managing theatrical companies through-
out the world which make his five-year
travels with the Second A.I.F. a tram-trip
by comparison. In the game for 25
years, one of his first jobs was as manager
THEATRE.
and advance-agent to Edward Brans-
combe’s Westminster Glee Singers, his
object to present the singers to every
British possession. Having completed
Canada, Newfoundland, West Indies,
Australia, Malaya and China, Dearden
booked the show in at Dairen in Man-
churia and wired Branscombe accordingly.
The reply came: “Abandon project,
Tientsin harbor icebound, bandits cap-
tured railway.” Burma, Siam, India and
Kenya, being then bandit-free, all saw
the show, and S. Africa was half-covered
when Branscombe died in Durban. Out
of respect to its founder the co. signed
on under Dearden and completed the job,
giving their final performance at Gibral-
tar before disbanding in London.
Through the Firm Dearden has been con-
nected with Clara Butt, Kubelik, Peter
Dawson, John Charles Thomas and
others, has never been connected with
films and doesn’t intend to be.
Recently retired from 23 years’ super-
intendence of Brisbane’s Mercantile
Wharf, Captain W. M. Dunn, a blue-
water man from Liverpool, who reefed
his first sail at 16 in the windjammer
Dunstaffnage (after whom he named his
house at Brisbane’s suburb of New
Farm), and had eight years in sail before
transhipping to steam in the Blue
Funnellers. He’s off to England, where
he’ll have a look, in the busman’s-holiday
way, at the Old Country’s stevedoring
methods. He has his own experience of
the local brand.
Staunch believer in the mercies of Red
Cross, Arthur Sharp, Brisbane’s World
War II administrator of that body and
present member of its National Council,
is depicted here by Chester. Leaving
N.S.W. for Bananaland in 1906, he left
that State for France with the A.I.F.
at the outbreak of the Kaiser’s
war. In the next upheaval his job was
RED CROSS.
vice-chairman of the Red Cross Appeal
Committee, in which he appealed strongly
enough to Queenslanders to lighten their
collective pockets by £2i million. The
mercy work was extended to most of
the evacuees arriving here in very poor
shape from Jap hands. Since the war
he has built up his State’s blood-bank,
with the help of Dr. Eric Shaw, to
20,000 donors a year. In business Sharp
is an auctioneer’s valuer; overall he is
a good organiser, a good golfer and a
good Australian.
Into the Silence:
In Melbourne, at 88, William John White,
farmer, foundation member of the Vic. Country
party and shire president of Keilor six times.
His allowance for that office during World
War I he gave to the Red Cross.
In Melbourne, at 65, Tom Marsh, of one of
the oldest canister-manufacturing firms in Aus-
tralia. His firm is one of the few five-generation
businesses in Victoria, being founded by the
original Marsh in Manchester and continued
here by his son William, who opened at Sand-
ridge (now Port Melbourne) in 1857.
At Geelong, Thomas Francis Lamb, director
of Ford Motors in Australia. A civil engineer
of Toronto University, he was a ranker in the
Canadian Army in World War I, and came out
with a captaincy and a bushel of British and
foreign decorations. In the next war he
equipped the Australian Army with large num-
bers of its landing barges, ammo lighters and
Bren-carriers. , TT . II
At Nelson (M.L.), at 83, Sir Thomas Hill
Eastcrficld. A product of Cambridge, Leeds,
Zurich and Wurzburg Universities, he went to
M. in 1899 as Professor of Chemistry at
Victoria College, Wellington, and twenty years
later became director of the Cawthron Institute
at Nelson, the first of its kind in the Southern
Hemisphere. He collected his knighthood m
1938.
At Dunedin (M.L.), at 81, John Thomas
Johnston, the last of the miners of the histone
goldfield at Waipori, Otago. In his youth he
went to Australia, took on shearing and mining,
and helped to form the Shearers’ Union during
the big Australian shearers’ strike in the
’eighties.
In Sydney, at 69, J. J. G. (Greg) McGirr,
brother of the New South Wales Premier and
a former M.L.A. for Yass, Cootamundra and
Sydney. He was the first and only holder
(1920-22) of the Motherhood portfolio in the
N. Parliament.
In Sydney, Mrs. Charles Tilden, better known
as Linda Littlejohn, for many years a leader
in feminist movements in New South Wales.
Before the war she was president of the Unitea
Associations of Women and of the Equal Rights
International (Geneva).
In Adelaide, at 53, Jack Fewster, musician
and song-writer. In collaboration with lorn
King, also of Adelaide, he wrote five musical
plays and more than 200 songs.
In Adelaide, at 88, Dr. C. W. Hamilton, one
of the oldest medicos on the S.A. register. He
came out fropi Ireland in 1883 and practised
in various country towns before he gravitated
to North Terrace, where he speciahsed as an
oculist.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Last October the St. Ives Hospital
Auxiliary was formed, its objective being
the purchase of hospital equipment, and
since then more than £lOOO has been
raised. On April 7 the auxiliary will
have its first large function at the home
of Mrs, A. M. Teare, 13 Glyndeboume-
avenue, Toorak. It’s a buy-a-gift, bring-
a-gift affair at 3 p.m., and at night a
bridge-party. President of the auxiliary is
Mrs. W, Riddell; Mrs. A. M. Teare is
hon. secretary and Mrs, E. Lesh hon.
treasurer.
Sydney girl Beryl James, Miss Aus-
tralia, 1948, took time off from her
various shopping engagements to visit the
crippled children at Frankston Hospital,
where she delighted the little patients by
signing autographs and posing for pic-
tures. Earlier in the day she had been
guest-of-honor at a luncheon-party given
at Menzies by Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, who
was in a black ensemble. Beryl wore a
smart frock of beech-brown bengaline
and a small cloche hat of off-white felt
trimmed with a side cluster of cream
goose-feathers. Mrs. T. T. Hollway, wife
of the Premier, wore tweeds in a tur-
quoise matrix pattern.
At the Lady Mayoress’s reception for
her at the Town Hall Beryl wore a navy
jacket-suit which had touches of white at
neck and short sleeves. Mrs. J. S.
Disney’s black tailored suit was worn
with a small black hat trimmed with a
pastel-pink bird. Mrs. Alec Hay’s en-
semble was in the London-tan shade.
Mrs. Norman Spry teamed a brilliant-red
jacket and hat with a slim-fitting black
skirt. Mrs. Margaret Saker added to her
navy jacket-suit a navy hat which showed
a pastel-pink grosgrain folded brim. Mrs.
W. H. McKechnie was in black with an
off-white hat decorated with black
ospreys. A large dark-blue bird trimmed
the large navy hat Reta Findlay wore with
her navy jacket-suit. An emerald-green
toque trimmed with multi-colored stones
toned well with Mrs. F, Gilbert’s beech-
brown suit.
For the first time in the history of
official pharmacy in this State a woman
pharmacist has been appointed a district
president within the Pharmaceutical Guild
of Australia. She is Irene MacGillivray,
a daughter of the late G. W. Mac-
Gillivray, of Geelong. Irene was edu-
cated at Morongo, Geelong. During the
war she assisted in Red Cross training
and examination of anti-gas emergency
services. She was also a group-leader in
Red Cross and a chemist officer in the
V.A.D. She has always been active in
pharmaceutical and community affairs,
and is treasurer of the women’s section
of the Pharmaceutical Society of Victoria,
of which she was president from 1946 to
1948.
When in 1930 the Orthopaedic Hos-
pital for children was opened at
Frankston Mrs. Wallace Mitchell was one
of its first supporters, and since then she
has been the hospital’s fairy-godmother.
No matter which appeal claims her time
and interest she always returns to thoughts
of the hospital, and continually plans how
to raise still more money for the
children’s welfare. Her latest effort has
been crowned with success. Giro’s was
the setting, Symphony Gowns supplied
the fashion show and the mannequins to
display them. Associated with Symphony
Gowns are Nancy Hudson and Hall
Ludlow, two designers from Maoriland,
Hall entered the designing field through
the theatre —many of the lovely gowns
seen in the Kiwi Revues were his
creations. His main inspiration comes
from color and texture of cloth, and he is
a firm believer in creating gowns which
suit the personality of the wearer. Nancy
has a feeling for elegance in design and
line, and says: “The ancient Greeks gave
us imperishable standards of beauty that
have never been excelled. Their beauty
resided in simplicity.” Nancy designed
the navy and white crepe tunic frock
which now forms part of Miss Aus-
tralia’s wardrobe, and it shows the
pencil-slim skirt and tunic with high neck-
line outlined in white; the short sleeves
are banded in white. One of Hall
Ludlow’s stunning creations is an Empire
evening gown of black-and-white-striped
satin with a high-waisted black velvet
jacket covering the off-the-shoulder line
of the gown.
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, who was
assisted by a small committee of her
friends, as well as her younger set, wore
a hip-length white wool coat embroidered
with gold and multi-colored sequins over
a black crepe dinner gown. Committee
members were Mrs. Royden Honeyman,
whose black lace gown was worn over
pink taffeta; Mrs. S. Aarons, in a black
crSpe gown; Mrs. Norman Spry, a wide
front panel of lace sewn with pearls and
crystal beads distinguishing her ruby-red
velvet gown; Mrs. Eric Cottrell, in tur-
quoise-blue chiffons; and Josie Pauli,
whose slim-fitting gown of black faille
featured a strapless bodice highlighted
with one large black bird set at one side,
Helen Campbell’s satin gown was silver-
grey. Wendy Ward’s off-the-shoulder bal-
lerina frock was of shot-taffeta. Jill
Daveren’s classical black gown was
topped with a black lace mantilla. The
guest-of-honor. Beryl James, added
gold accessories to her shot-green taffeta
ballerina frock. Mrs. W. H. McKechnie
wore a black crepe evening gown.
Anew McMaster successfully brought
his company down from the sublime
heights of Shakspearean tragedy to the
melodrama of sentiment and sensation
when he presented Du Maurier’s
‘Trilby” at the Princess. Among first-
nighters were Mrs. Eric Harrison, wear-
ing a white satin tailored gown under a
short white ermine cape; Mrs. Dan
Reddan, in yellow-green-and-blue-striped
lame; Sheila Helpmann, whose white
chenille velvet gown was embossed in
light- and dark-green velvet; Mrs. J. D.
Kelly, in pink and silver lam£; Mrs. J.
Bowen Pain, whose black gown was
trimmed with sequins ; Mrs. Isobel Green,
in a graceful gown of royal-blue chiffon ;
and Mrs. G. Cox, whose red velvet coat
with jewelled sleeves covered a black
gown.
St. Peter’s, Toorak, was the setting for
the wedding of Betty, eldest daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. T. G. Jones, of Elsternwick,
and Ivor, elder son of Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Carolan, of St. Kilda-road. The
bride’s Hartnell model gown was of
French tulle over silver lame. The bodice
was fashioned on long slender lines, and
over the shoulders were cascades of tulle
caught at each side with clusters of silver
orchids. Twelve layers of tulle fashioned
the bouffant skirt, and clusters of orchids
were scattered over it from the waist to
hemline. Her short tulle veil fell from a
rolled coronet of pearls and diamente.
Attending the bride were her sisters
Pat and Louise. Pat’s gown, also by
Hartnell, was of sea-blue tulle; the long-
sleeved, low-necked bodice was allied to
a full skirt, the whole sewn with pale-
pink and deeper-blue sequins with a
rouleau of deep-blue outlining the waist-
line. A tiny Juliet cap of blue velvet
was sewn with jewels to match the sequins
on the gown. Louise wore a Worth gown
of cloud-grey tulle, with a fichu of tulle
about the shoulders which can also form
a hood. White orchids were fastened on
one shoulder, and the skirt cascaded in
frills from waist to hem and was caught
at the waist with a bow of deeper-grey
satin. Graham Drane was best man, and
groomsman was Brian Carolan.
Reception was held at Ripponlea, the
home of the bride’s parents. Lounges,
reception-rooms and ballroom were
massed with white roses, dahlias and
green foliage, and the dining-tables
centred with large sprays of pastel-pink
flowers. Two hundred and fifty guests
were entertained at dinner, and later
others arrived for the ball. Mrs. Jones
received her guests wearing a deep-wine
crepe romaine gown, the skirt flowing
into a short train; her halo hat was of
pale-pink and wine-toned flowers, Mrs.
Cardan’s dinner-gown was of black
crepe. Mrs. Lionel Newton’s striking
gown of pale-primrose shantung had
lapels of glittering gold sequins; match-
ing ospreys were worn in her hair. A
pastel-pink crepe pleated skirt made effec-
tive alliance with the bodice of matching
chantilly lace worn by Mrs. J. E. Shilli-
day. Mrs. M. Sallmann covered her
forest-green dinner-gown with a long, fit-
ting coat of matching velvet. The Hannan
sisters, cousins of the bride,, made an
attractive trio ; Peggy and Susimne in
simple white gowns and Pauline in
powder-blue satin. Verna Linton’s off-
the-shoulder bouffant gown was in parch-
ment satin. Gloria Ladd gained contrast
for her draped and bustle gown of aqua-
blue satin with pink roses at the waist.
From Sydney
The officers’ mess at Victoria Barracks
held an interested audience one afternoon
last week when the Eastern Command
Women’s Auxiliary held its annual meet-
ing. The auxiliary has for its special
object the War Widows’ Craft Guild,
and secretary Mrs. D. A. Hall sounded
happy as she announced that last year
over £lBOO was raised for the Guild,
first by a garden-party and then an
afternoon fair at the barracks. Among
the hundred or so attending the meeting
were many men. One of the afternoon’s
speakers was the Governor, Lt.-General
Northcott, who was accompanied by his
daughter Elizabeth. Acting-president of
the Guild, Mrs. Cunningham, also spoke.
Mrs. Berryman, president of the Eastern
Command Auxiliary, presided and made
a graceful and sincere little speech. She
was attractive in a frock of French-grey
crepe, softly draped; with it she wore
a large black hat. Mrs, Hall, who took
over the office of secretary when Mrs.
Mann and her Brigadier husband went
off to Melbourne, wore on her printed-
silk frock a spray of tiger-lilies and tube-
roses given her by Mrs. Berryman.
Noticed in the crowd was ardent worker
for the cause Mrs. Paddy Moore.
A Town Hall audience 100 p.c. in
numbers and about 50-50 as far as
dressing was concerned greeted the
season’s first concert by the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra with rapturous
applause. The ladies of the committee
paid due respect to music with their
sleek evening frocking and smoothly-
dressed heads. The hon. secretary, Mrs.
Hope Gibson, wore deep delphinium-
blue crSpe, the skirt long and very full.
Her most glittering ornament was the
gold life-membership medallion recently
presented to her by the A.B.C. Tiny
ivory rosebuds around the neckline were
a feature of Mrs. A. E. McCartney’s
black moire frock. Mrs. Bertie Kelly’s
black crapes glittered with sequins,
Among the listeners were former A.B.C.
chairman Cleary and his wife, the
Claude Plowman lady, Mrs. Cornell, of
Adelaide, In contrast with the black
frocking around her pianist Eileen Ralf,
whose husband, violinist Thomas Mat-
thews, was the soloist in the Britten
Concerto, was colorful in a frock of
green and white silk, with which she wore
a coat in rich red brocade.
The wedding of Pam Spooner, of
Balgowlah, to Dr, George Wilcox, of
Kogarah, will take place at St. Phillip’s
Church next Saturday. The reception
will be held at Windsor Gardens. George
Wilcox is associated with Dr. Saxby
in his practice at Kogarah. Pam,
who recently graduated in Arts at
Sydney University, is a daughter of State
president of the Liberal party, W. H.
Spooner, and Mrs. Spooner. Photo, by
Norton Trevaire.
• To the soft incidental music of five
musicians, Anthony Horderns every day
last week presented their 1949 Winter
Fashion Show in their fine-art gallery.
The long room was packed for each
session, small children were there,
applauding even more vigorously than
they did the parade of children of their
own years the voluminous snow-white be-
frilled tulle wedding dress. A black
velvet evening frock, its off-the-shoulder
neckline having an inset of rich cream
lace, was among the admired. Also
admired was a black afternoon frock
which had its skirt draped to one side,
the waist finished at the back with a large
bow, the ends coming just below the
hemline. There were “tent” coats, and,
of course, the coat that fitted to the
waist, the fullness of the skirt achieved
by pleats or clever cutting. One of these
sported a black Persian-lamb collar that
gave the effect of a little tippet.
There was no happier or more united 1
family than the Greg McGirrs, of North
Sydney, and widespread sympathy is be-
ing expressed with Mrs. McGirr and her
family on the death of Mr. McGirr last
week. Greg McGirr, who had been ill
for some months in the Mater Hospital, 1
retained to the last his bright spirit and
keen interest in the questions of the day.
The S.U.D.S. production of “Twelfth
Night,” which is being presented for the
schoolchildren, netted all the big educa-
tional fish for its opening performance.
Among them were Tyrone Guthrie and L.
F. Keller of the Education Department,
who is also vice-president of the Arts
Council. Seated near by was Mrs. Roberts,
wife of the vice-chancellor of the Uni-
versity, who had hostessed a lunch-party i
beforehand. S.U.D.S. producer, Sam
Hughes, is prouder, if possible, of the
stage-effects contrived out of examina-:
tion-tables wired together, and other in-
genious devices, turning the dais of the
Great Hall into a ducal palace in Illyria
and suchlike, than of the really good act-
ing of his cast. The demand for seats
was so great that some days there have
been three performances—and there is
only one cast. v '
Minister for Immigration Calwell
might have been interested in the view
put forward by Lady Howitt, past vice-
president of the National Council of
Great Britain, at a party given in her
honor by the N.S.W.N.C.W. in the
Lyceum Qub, She advocated the immi-
gration of the complete family unit from
England to Australia, After all, grand-
mothers and grandfathers can be a great
help to young mothers and fathers settling
in a new country. Lady Howitt is a
clear and fluent speaker, and there is
sincere conviction behind her ideas as
to the welfare of women and children.
Members of the N.C.W. crowded into
the Lyceum Club to meet this overseas
guest, N.S.W.’s president, Mrs. J. Met-
calfe, was the afternoon’s hostess. Lady
Howitt and her husband are touring Aus-
tralia and New Zealand. Soon after
Easter they will return to England by
way of the East and the U.S.A.
Tall Tyrone Guthrie —there’s 6ft. 6in.
of him —came to Australia at the invi-
tation of the British Council to add his
bit of advice on the establishment of the
Australian National Theatre. But how
cafi any visitor, no matter how imbued
he is with the theatre of England or any
of the densely-populated countries of the
world, visualise the difficulties the estab-
lishing of a national theatre is up against
in a country with such a sparse and
widely-flung population as Australia? Be-
sides, to begin at the beginning you can’t
have a national theatre without national
playwrights. Surely people such as
Olivier and Tyrone Guthrie, steeped in
the traditions of the Old Vic., must agree
with Will Shakspeare that “The play’s
the thing”
Tyrone was the guest of honor
at the Arts Council last week. The
party took place in the Board Room of
the Rural Bank. The long room was
filled with artists, writers and producers
of Little Theatre groups. Mrs. C. R. Mc-
Kerihan, whose black afternoon frock
glittered discreetly with rhinestones,
helped to receive the guests. And among
the many—representing the two big
theatrical enterprises that have kept a pro-
cession of the artists of the world visiting
Australia for many years —were Harald
Bowden, of J. C. Williamson, and knight
Ben Fuller, who was accompanied by his
wife.
Sydney artists showed some pleasing
work in the Education Galleries last
week. The exhibition was in aid of the
Girl Guides’ Association of N.S.W.
There were 180 pictures on the walls,
and of these 30 had been sold within an
hour after Admiral R. J. Feakes said the
magic opening formula. Lady Julius,
State Commissioner of Girl Guides, was
another important in the movement who
was present at the first day of the ex-
hibition. A happy prologue had been
the party on the preceding evening, when
the artists and their friends attended.
The Julius lady and May Mitchell, assisted
by president of the R.A.S. Erik Langker
and Squire Morgan, received the guests.
Each of the three days of the exhibi-
tion had a special feature. An evening
of music rounded off the first day; the
programme for this was arranged by
Mrs. C. T. Lorenz. On Wednesday Erik
himself took the Girl Guides on a lecture
tour of the exhibition, and on Thursday
Squire Morgan gave them a lecture-
demonstration of etching.
The big event of the yachting season
will be the Royal Sydney Yacht Squad-
ron’s picnic next Sunday. A whole fleet
of yachts and cruisers loaded with mem-
bers and associates will bear down on
Collins Flat, shortly after 11 a.m. and
take possession of it for the whole day.
“The Blue Bird” will try out its wings
again at the Theatre Royal in a series
of late-afternoon flights starting on Friday
at 5.15.


Divorce Notices.
TO CHARLES LEONARD TATHAM late
of Geraldton in the State of Western
Australia.—TAKE NOTICE that a cita-
tion in a suit No. 624 of 1949 bearing
date the sth day of November 1948 has
been issued out of the Supreme Court of
Western Australia citing you to appear
and answer the petition of GLADYS
ALMA OLIVE TATHAM of 10 Dew Street
Haverfordwest, Pembrokeshire, Wales
praying for a dissolution of her marriage
with you IN DEFAULT of your so
doing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to
hear the said petition proved and pro-
nounce sentence in respect thereof AND
TAKE NOTICE that for the purpose afore-
said you are within thirty (30) days
from the date of this publication to
attend in person or by your solicitor or
proctor at the Central Office of the Su-
preme Court Perth in the said State there
to enter an appearance in a book pro-
vided for that purpose. Dated this 16th
day of March, 1949. — (1.5.) E. LAWSON
TURNBULL, Acting Registrar in Divorce.
DWYER & THOMAS, National House, 49
William Street, Perth, Solicitors for the
Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Iif Drvoac*.
TO WILLIAM JESSE GOODWIN for-
merly of 34 Bulkara Road Bellevue HAL
—TAKE NOTICE that SUZANNE ELIZA-
BETH GOODWIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 79S of 1949 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 6th of June
1949 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from JOHN BARNETT
GREAVES, Solicitor, 92 Pitt Street, Syd-
ney.—(ta) J. DODGHAN, Acting Regis-
trar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES—Ik Dmmox.
TO SIDNEY GAZZARD late of Parra-
matta.—TAKE NOTICE that EDNA MAY
GAZZARD has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 3878 of 1948 on the ground of de-
sertion without Just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards and is asking
the exercise of the Court’s discretion in
her favour under Section 19 (2) (a) of
the Matrimonial Causes Act 1899. If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 7th June
1949 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from J. R. GOLDSTON,
Solicitor, 34 Martin Place, Sydney.—
(1.5.) J, DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
in Divorce,
Missing Friend*.
TO LEONARD WILLIAM HURLEY for-
merly of 179 Dow Street Port Melbourne
Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
HANNAH JOSEPHINE HURLEY has in-
stituted proceedings for Divorce on the
ground of desertion. Unless you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary*s Office
of the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or
before the Twenty-first day of April 1949
and file an answer oh or before the Second
day of May 1949 the case may proceed
in your absence. —LANDER & ROGERS,
31 Queen Street, Melbourne, 0.1, Solicitors
for Petitioner.
THE SERVICE MAN
suggest that Western European coun-
tries could offer any defence to a
Russian invasion of Europe? I do
not think that anyone pretends they
could. If the position were pushed
to the point of war, what forces have
the Allies in Europe today that would
enable them to prevent 3,000,000 to
4,000,000 Russians flooding across
Europe?
I say with due consideration, so
far as military strength is concerned,
that if that is all Russia desires to
do—to conquer Europe by military
force —I have no doubt Russia could
achieve that objective within a reason-
able time.
I admit that such action would only
be the beginning of a war, because the
Russians would have to contend with
the enormous resources, manpower
and industrial potential of the United
States.
What a prospect for the world to
have Communism and the Russian
armies flooding across Europe, the
great preparations and reorganisation
that would be necessary to enable the
United Slates to launch another
D-day In Europe, and the long and
bitter struggle anything of that kind
would presage!
Surely, anyone with any under-
standing of these problems—surely,
we who stand on the perimeter,
should be realistic about what we
tell other people they ought to do
and what arrangements tilsy should
make—where they should show the
clenched fist and where the spirit of
compromise.
Obviously Mr. Chifley regards
bimself and Australia as being
on tbe sidelines, not a parti-
cipant, under no obligation to
take part, except the part of the
worm under the steamroller, pre-
pared to lie down and let it
roll unless the United States
rescues him. He is prepared to
go to any length to appease
Moscow, even to the point of
making official speeches which
are an invitation to aggression.
He has “given away” the still-
powerful British Commonwealth.
w
His weapons in battle
with, the makers of the
cold war are the hollow-
log and the white flag.
He says, in effect, to Mos-
cow, "Come and take
Europe. It is wide open.”
His Minister for Defence is of
the same breed. Listen to him;
We must be completely realistic
about this matter. Mr. Chifley said
recently that it was well known that
if war were to break out in Europe
tomorrow the forces of the Union of
Soviet Republics could sweep across
Europe to the English Channel. If
that happened where would Australia
be able to deploy the large forces
that Opposition members want to
raise by compulsory military training?
Would members of the Opposition
send them to Europe to be annihilated
as the Russians swept forward?
Would they send them to Britain,
which already has sufficient men under
arms to defend herself?
Britain, of course, hasn’t suffi-
cient men to defend herself in
the face of the circumstances
which Messrs. Chifley and Ded-
man envision, though she has
enough to make a powerful
showing in the face of actual
realities.'
But that matter can be allowed
to pass. The cold fact is that
Mr. Chifley and his Ministers are
against measures beyond a token
defence, on a strictly volunteer
basis, because any other would
cost them a few votes.
If they agreed with the Oppo-
sition it would gain them noth-
ing, since both sides and the
national policy would be united.
But the offer of freedom from
defence obligation to some
voters pays political dividends.
“Labor” policy is a votebuying
policy. And the speech of Mr.
Dedman exposes it in all its
nakedness.
You can’t send the troops to
Europe (he says) when you train
them. They would be annihi-
lated.
Therefore Mr. Dedman
suggests don’t train them or
send them anywhere.
Leave all the other British
Dominions in the Pacific to look
after themselves. Leave Aus-
tralia with a handful of half-
trained, volunteer militia, leave
the bulk of young manhood in
the country untrained. Then, if
the country is invaded, it can’t
come to any harm.
All it will need to do is to
hoist a notice saying “Don’t
shoot! We are on the Peri-
meter 1” gnd apply the Chifley
technique of compromise, recog-
nising when womenfolk are
ravaged and homes burned that
it is all part of a movement
against poverty and want.
There used to be an ugly name
for the present policy of Can-
berra. But that was in the days
when Australians still sang that
“Britons never shall be slaves”
and when bodies of foreign
agents would have ordered the
Australian Government around
at their peril.
Now, the president of the
A.L.P. —who admits that he was
once a member of the Com-
munist p>arty and a member of
the executive of the Minority
Movement, an offshoot of the
Communist party and Moscow-
directed, says that the workers
don’t worry so much about free-
dom —so long as they have full
employment they will put up
with control.
The “Government,” in turn,
appears to adopt the same atti-
tude.
“Like those off your arm, too?”
ŵ
must be blotted off the face of
the earth, either from within or
without. It is a pity that all
Australians cannot hear some of
these broadcasts, but in the offi-
cial world of radio we have
some commissars almost as
stupid as those of Moscow.
One particular afternoon
broadcast which would do un-
told good in showing the average
Australian what he is up against
and what sort of people instruct
our Communist party is regularly
blanketed by a vapid 8.8. C.
item, dripping patronage and in-
anity. Some Russian broad-
casts are being jammed, though
by whom is not quite clear.
The two main features of the
week’s developments are the
firming of European peoples be-
hind their Governments which,
particularly in France and Italy,
are in a position in which they
could scarcely have hoped to be
a year ago, and the swift subju-
gating of every other considera-
tion in the West to getting the
West into working—and mili-
tary-working—order. The warn-
ings of the possibility of a Rus-
sian coup uttered by Mr. Harold
Macmillan in the House of
Commons were not without their
point. The spirit in which they
were received by the British
Government and the open ad-
mission by Mr. McNeill, Min-
ister of State, that the position is
“serious” was not without its
point either.
Military H.Q. everywhere are
in a state of great activity.
Chiefs of Staff under Field-Mar-
shal Montgomery are working
overtime. Mr. Churchill signifi-
cantly is in the United States,
and President Truman too busy
to perform the task of laying the
foundation-stone of the tens-of-
millions dollars home of U.N.0.,
which is scarcely likely to need
it except as a mausoleum.
Russian activity is greater than
that of the Western Powers. The
Russian forces in Europe—re-
newed with huge drafts of fresh
conscripts—are about to enter
on a month’s large-scale exer-
cises on the verges of the
Western zone—the same kind of
exercises in which they were in-
volved when Hitler attacked
Russia, the German Fiihrer
claiming that the exercises
looked very much like the
preparations for an invasion of
Germany. '
The Russian Command in
Berlin —as distinguished from
Eastern Germany, whose
C.-in-G,, General Sokolnikov, is
reported to be already in Mos-
cow—has been changed.
But the most important Rus-
sian development,'following the
reorganisation of the Krem-
lin’s inner Cabinet, was the call-
ing home of Marshal Vassilev-
sky to be Minister for the Armed
Forces in place of the mysterious
Bulganin, a civilian who was
made a marshal overnight when
the war ended, apparently in
order to damp down military in-!
fluence.
Vassilevsky is the only high-
ranking Russian officer who
served in the Czarist armies, and
he is the U.S.S.R.’s front-rank
planner in military matters, and
conducted the extrication of the
Soviet Red Army from the
muddle into which it had got it-
self with the help of those idols
of the Australian Press, Mar-
shals Budenny and Timoshenko.
He is not popular with the
Kremlin, but so outstanding in
ability that it apparently cannot
do without him.
Mr. Chifley seems likely to go
to England for the Prime Mini-
sters’ meeting on April 20 to
consider defence or the millen-
ium or something, and on the
way he will be able to inspect
the Pacific Pact countries of the
Asian zone. There is the Re-
public of Indernesian Com-
rades, etc., the portrait of whose
president. Dr. Soekamo, has
just been unveiled by the Dutch
wearing a Japanese decoration
and shouting the merits of the
invaders in whose hands Aus-
tralians were being murdered in
hundreds on Indernesian soil;
and there is Malaya, where the
papers are pouririg scorn on
Australia and its immigration
Minister. There is also Burma,
where Reuter says that 14 out of
35 electoral districts are in the
hands of Karens and Com-
munists, and where the main im-
plements of the forthcoming
election are reported as likely
to be “guns, grenades, knifes
and daggers.” There is India,
where an armed Communist plot
has been uncovered—it is in
line with the propaganda of
Australian Communist-led
unions. There is, also, on his
way, Pakistan, whose inhabitants
would prefer to fight in World
War 111 on any side which is
opposed to the Hindus; and there
is Egypt, which may not allow
him to land. It is no wonder
that the P.M.’s attitude on the
eve of departure reminds the
onlooker of an uncertain bird
on a wind-swept bough, about
to charge off into a thunder-
storm.


A Supreme Achievement in
KEcmoAi ’Tout
tfuifefiny
00WWvt]ts/i/
ft MARS N°4
UNIVERSAL MILLING
MACHINE
The “Mars” No. 4 Universal Miller incorporates
such modern features as Rapid Power Traverse
in all directions. Integral Electrical and Cool-
ant System and Magnetic Filtered Force-feed
Lubrication. All Main Drive Dears are of
Nickel Chrome Steel, Generated Form Heat
Treated.
PLAIN MILLER
A sturdy machine of high quality
work and maximum output.
*
/
/
o
■ m m
//
/
:
m
m
m
mm
■
m
mm
Is m
s
m
u
V |
The “MARS”
Universal
Dividing Head
De-igned for Differential
Indexing and also fined with
Rapid Indexing Plate. Suit-
aide for Helical and Spiral
Milling, Worm and Worm
Gears. Bevel. Spiral, Spur
Gears, Splines, etc. Precision
Built and Robust Construc-
tion.
Outstanding features of “Mars"
Machine Tools are: —
ACCURACY Built to recog-
nized and certified standards of
,accuracy. BALANCE AH
necessary revolving parts are
Dynamically Balanced. FINISH
All surfaces are Machine
Ground. MATERIALS Finest
Matured High Test Alloy Cast-
ings throughout, S M (XO T H
RUNNING—AII Gear Teeth are
generated. VERSATILITY
All lathes have generous De-
tachable Gap Bridge. “MARS”
Lathe Lead Screws are cut from
a certified and tested Master
' Lead Screw.
mar:
MACHINE TOOL
M ANFG. CO. PTY. LTD.
BRIDGES!. VALLEY BRISBANE
EmA'li
Licensed Manufacturers in Queensland
of
“MEEHANITE” IRONS
DISTRIBUTING AGENTS: N.SW.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty Ltd.,
Sydney. Vic.: Herbert Osborne, Engineer, 367-9 Little Bourke Street,
(near King Street), Melbourne, C.l. S.A.: M. S. McLeod Ltd.. Adelaide.
W.A.: The Western Machinery Co. Ltd., Perth. Tns.- Charles Davis LttL,
Hobart, Calcutta: Ross Neil & Sons, Chowringhee Road. Bombay Pro-
vince : R. S. Mehta & Co.- Fort Bombay. Madras, Mysore, Cochin
and Pudduhkotlai: Australasian Trading Co. (India) Ltd. Hong Kong
and Shanghai- The East Asiatic Co. Ltd.


UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
U S. POLICY IN JAPAN.
Last September the first Jap
editor to visit the U.S. since
Pearl Harbor —Bunshiro Suzuki
—cast up in Washington and
gave one or two interesting and
significant answers in reply to
questions put to him by “U.S.
News and Wofld Report,” the
following among them:
Q. —What about inflation in
Japan ?
A. —I think inflation is among
the biggest problems Japan is
facing.- There are two prices—
official prices and blackmarket
prices. Generally speaking,
prices are from 500 to 2000 times
higher than they were five or
ten years ago,
Q. — Well* what is the answer
—increased production ?
A. —Yes. Increased produc-
tion—that is the cry. But we
do not have machinery or raw
stuffs enough. That is the reason
why Japanese business is in
desperate need of capital and
credit. Many businessmen, when
they knew I was coming here,
asked if there was a chance I
could raise capital. There is a
desperate need. As you know,
America is spending $1,000,000
a day for upkeep in Japan and
Korea, Unless Japan can be
helped economically, she will be
a burden for I don’t know how
many years to come.
Q. —Does th e reparation
tangle hold back production
seriously ?
A.—No, because reparation is
not being made yet. They have
not moved much machinery as
yet. I understand the United
States is not too anxious to dis-
mantle Japan. I think they want
to build up the Japanese indus-
try to a great extent.
Q. —Do you mean by that
that the attitude of the Occupa-
tion Government in Japan has
given the Japanese people the
impression that the U.S. wants
to rebuild Japan ?
A. —Oh, yes. Not only the
Occupation Government i n
Japan but even more by the dis-
patches from Washington. We
have read, for instance, that in
the first stage of occupation
America was determined to put
down Japan. Now they have
changed their attitude and are
trying to keep up Japan.
Suzuki, who before the war
was editor of the widely influ-
ential “Asahi” and now edits the
Jap edition of the “Reader’s
Digest,” said in answer to an-
other question, on General Mac-
Arthur, “I think we know he is
a great friend of Japan and the
Japanese,” and, regarding sug-
gested abdication of Hirohito,
“I do not think he will abdicate.
He is an able man and may be
needed.”
Suzuki also said he intended
writing in an article for his
Japanese readers “that nowhere
since I came to this country
[U.S.] have I encountered a
single case in which I experi-
enced any animosity on account
of being a citizen of a country
which was your enemy until
only three years ago. And it is
not only my experience. All the
Japanese residents here say the
same thing.”
That the Jap editor had accu-
rately gauged a good deal of
prospective U.S., policy towards
his country would appear evi-
dent from a survey of that policy
this present month by “U.S.
News and World Report.” De-
claring that a “new policy for
Japan is shaping up” in the
offices of “U.S. planners in
Washington and Tokyo,” it in-
dicates that final decisions have
not yet been reached: the
planners “find that the U.S. has
a nation of nearly 80,000,000
people on its hands and no clear
idea what to do with it,” while
“Each year the solution is de-
layed adds 1,300,000 to the
population of the country that
today is a U-S. ward.”
Meanwhile, “Japan is costing
the United States a lot of money.
Pressure is growing to let the
Japanese get back into business
Yet any talk of allowing them
to revive all their industries
arouses alarm in the Philippines,
Australia and China. If Japan
is not allowed to get back into
business, she cannot become self-
supporting, and the burden on
U.S. will continue. This is only
one of a series of dilemmas with
which this country is faced in
planning the future of Japan.”
The present trend, the well-
informed publication states, “is
toward letting Japan rebuild,
with pre-war groups once'more
in charge.” It declares that the
new U.S. policy on Japan will
include the following points:
Greater freedom is to be
given the Japanese to govern
themselves in their own way. If
the Japanese want to amend the
Constitution they adopted under
the guidance of General Mac--
Arthur, they will be allowed to
make any changes that do not
violate its basic principles.
A strong police force is to be
formed, thus modifying the
original policy of keeping Japan
completely disarmed. Such a
force, it is reasoned, will be able
to put down any Communist
uprisings that might be at-
tempted.
Economic aid in the form of
raw materials for industry is to
be stepped up, in order to make
Japan self-supporting as soon as
possible. For the coming fiscal
year, the U.S. Congress prob-
ably will be asked to appropri-
ate around $165,000,000 for this
purpose, compared with less
than $100,000,000 being spent
this year.
Reparations are to be kept to
a minimum. To date, only about
$ 13,000,000-worth of goods—
mostly machine tools —has been
transferred or marked for trans-
fer to Allied countries. Of this
amount, more than half has gone
to China and the rest to the
Philippines, the Netherlands and
Britain. Officials now conclude
that Japanese machinery can be
more useful in Japan than else-
where.
4 The purge of military and
other Right-wing leaders, under-
taken soon after the occupation
began, is to be stopped. There
will be less emphasis on the
whole programme of democrati-
sation.
Also, Japanese businessmen
are to be encouraged to go
—Detroit (U.S.A.) “Free Press."
ON BOTH SIDES.
abroad and arrange for market
outlets for their goods.
As further shifts, the publi-
cation declares that the influ-
ence of General MacArthur on
American policy in Japan is to
now gradually decrease, and
“Eventually the State Depart-
ment is expected to take over
administration of Japan from
the Army.” It adds:
“Costs to U.S. of keeping the
Japanese people alive and their
economy going have totalled
more than $1,200,000,000 since
the war ended. During the
present fiscal year about
$470,000,000 is being spent,
mostly for food, petroleum, ferti-
lisers, medicines, spare parts for
machinery, and such raw
materials as cotton, coking-coal
and rubber. Figuring in Occu-
pation force costs, U.S. is spend-
ing about $1,000,000,000 a year
in Japan.
“Food alone accounts for more
than $300,000,000 of the annual
expenses borne by the United
States. Japan produces only
about 80 per cent, of her own
food. Officials estimate that,
without U.S. help, from
15.000. to 20,000,000 Japan-
ese would starve.
“What complicates the prob-
lem is the fact that Japan’s popu-
lation is nearly
greater than it was at the end
of the war. About 4,000,000 of
this increase was due to the
return of Japanese who had been
living abroad. The main factor,
however, is a natural increase in
the population.
“Restoring Japan’s trade is
recognised as essential, if she is
to become self-supporting. But
this is proving to be a tough
job. The trouble is that Japan’s
empire, on which her economy
was based before the war, has
collapsed.
“Formerly, Japan had close
economic ties with Manchuria,
Korea and Formosa. She got
coal, iron, soybeans and cotton
from Manchuria, rice from
Korea and other food from For-
mosa. With the coal and iron
she operated a steel industry in
her own country that had a
capacity of 9,000,000 tons of
steel a year.
“Japan had other economic
ties. She bought oil in the
Netherlands Indies, sold textiles
in China and throughout South-
east Asia. In the United States
and other Western countries, she
found markets for silk, toys,
light-bulbs and other goods.
“Now those old ties are cut.
Besides, the market for silk,
Japan’s greatest earner of dollars
before the war, has been drasti-
cally reduced by nylon.
“Occupation authorities are
trying to help- Japan build new
export markets for textiles, light
machinery, toys and other manu-
factured goods. But there re-
mains the problem of obtaining
raw materials. To make steel,
coking-coal is being brought
from the United States at a cost
of $25 to $2B a ton, whereas,
before the war, coal was brought
from Manchuria at a cost of $5
a ton. Officials point out that
Japan’s real, need, if she is to
become .self-supporting, is to
obtain coal and iron from Man-
churia, as before.
“A dilemma over steel con-
fronts the U.S. planners, how-
ever, when they think of reviv-
ing Japan’s heavy industry.
Manchuria now is in the hands
of the Chinese Communists.
The planners fear that, if Japan
depends on the Chinese Com-
munists for essential materials,
she will wind up, sooner or later,
in the Russian orbit. So they
are going slowly in trying to
engineer any trade deals with
Manchuria.”
Of other dilemmas which
appear as U.S. tries to map out
Japan’s future, “one has to do
with the problem of checking
the spread of Communism. Not
long ago General MacArthur,
apparently seeking to thwart the
Communists, banned strikes in
major industries. In the recent
election, however, the Com-
munist vote went from 1,000,000
—the previous figure to
3.000. [Moreover, the Com-
munist representation in the
Jap Diet went from a mere four
to nine times that number.]
“The Communist problem also
gets tangled up with recovery
measures. U.S. is insisting that
Japan adopt a nine-point pro-
gramme of economic stabilisa-
tion. It involves higher taxes
and big cuts in the Government
pay roll. Japanese leaders, after
resisting the programme, now
announce that they will go ahead
with it. But they warn that it
will bring the unemployment of
2.000. persons. General
MacArthur privately is advising
officials in Washington not to
push the programme, on the
ground that it may play into the
hands of Communists.
“Still another dilemma arises
from the fact that U.S. success
in restoring Japan’s foreign
trade is bound to bring new
competition for businessmen in
U.S. and other countries. Japan
wants to export textiles, but
textile firms in both U.S. and
Britain object. Similarly, U.S.
toy-manufacturers object to
competition from Japanese toys
and British shipbuilders protest
—Chicago “Tribune.”
THE STACKED HAND.
competition from Japanese ship-
yards.
“The many difficulties,” the
“U.S. News and World Re-
port” survey concludes, “raise
the question whether U.S. ever
can make Japan self-supporting.
And, even if Japan does get on
her feet, there is the further
question whether Japan can be
prevented from lining up with
Russia,”
Anti-Semitism.
In a remarkable address be-
fore members of the American
Council for Judaism, Dr. Henry
Leiper, associate general-secre-
tary' of the World Council of
Churches, strongly warned that
“anti-Semitism, the terrible
curse of our time, is growing in
the United States.”
Urging Jewish leaders to make
“a public expression of sym-
pathy for the 800,000 victims of
the violent expulsion of Arabs
from Israel,” Dr, Leiper in-
sisted that this was vitally neces-
sary “to counter a rising tide
of anti-Semitic feeling.”
Dr, Leiper further insisted
that “Jews today should make it
clear that they have the same
sympathy for refugee Arabs as
Christians throughout the world
showed for Jews when they were
expelled from Nazi Germany.”
He especially warned Ameri-
can Jews to be on their guard
against the appearance of
accepting a “dual nationality,”
dividing their “patriotic allegi-
ance between Israel and the
United States.” There had, he
said, been a fear of taking any
public stand on the plight of the
thousands of Arab refugees in
the Middle East lest such a
stand would lead to “stirring up
latent anti-Semitism in the
United States and other coun-
tries.”
Critic of E.R.P.
Back from trying to discover
on the spot “how the highly-
expensive U.S.-bankrolled Euro-
pean Recovery Programme is
■working,” the N. Y. “Daily
News” writer John O’Donnell
let loose chiefly at the personal
side of it:
“Everywhere—and this in-
cludes our own U.S. administra-
tors handling the dough—there
is every evidence that the whole
operation is a bookkeeper’s
nightmare, a madhouse of be-
wildered juggling of loans,
grants, counterpart funds,
blocked currency, export con-
trols, with no one being able
to pry apart the fundamental
differences between a move
which is economic, a move which
is political and a move which
is strictly military.
“We don’t expect the boys to
get together. But our guess .is
that the whole show will go to
a political hell in a very expen-
sive U.S. hearse unless some-
one moves in at Paris, fires the
incompetent eager beavers, in-
stalls auditors that can run an
adding machine, and gets rid of
the over-age colonels and
civilian sweepings of the Mili-
tary Government who have lived
better in Europe than they ever
could back in the U.S. Follow
this with a tough purge of all
our propaganda, information
and press-relations services and
run the show with something
approaching the efficiency of a
foreign set-up of the Chase
National Bank, Ford Motors or
Standard Oil.
“Regardless of whether the
Marshall Plan is going to work,
it would be all for the best to
get the best personnel. And
this we most certainly haven’t
got. We haven’t got even good
second-raters.”
U.N.O. Successor.
Dr. Evatt’s representation of
U.N.O. as not only gaining in
authority but doing so despite its
inability to command any inter-
national force to compel com-
pliance with its orders, along
with the present Canberra Gov-
ernment’s support of U.N.O. as
its whole foreign policy, gives
Australia a special interest in the
actual state of that world peace
body—using “body” in the de-
funct or post-mortem sense of
the word.
Pointing ,out that, “with the
exception of a few hyperinter-
nationalist newspapers in the
United States,” the press of the
world agreed that all the vast
expenditure of effort and time in
the Assembly session in Paris
was totally wasted, the Chicago
“Tribune” correspondent who
watched the proceedings com-
mented :
“A survey of newspaper
opinion prepared by the U.N.’s
own department of information
disclosed that the session was
almost universally regarded as a
dismal failure. The London
‘Times’ said the session ‘con-
tributed nothing to peace and
understanding, and not a little
to distrust and ill-will.’ This ap-
praisal was fairly representative
of the reaction of the European
and Asiatic press.”
Not press disillusionment
alone, either: “Some of the
speeches of the U.N. delegates
were no less pessimistic.” For
instance, “Britain’s Foreign
Secretary frankly dismissed the
U.N. as a failure, and said his
Government henceforth would
place its hope for security in
regional pacts against Russian
Communism.”
Even before Mr. Churchill re-
cently declared that without
regional pacts U.N.O. would
continue to be “a failure and a
mockery,” the favoring of such
pacts was pointed to by
N Y. “Times” U.N.O. corre-
spondent Thomas J. Hamilton
as indicating the real, as
distinct from the Evattuated,
state of U.N.O. Under the head-
line “Regional Pacts Show
Weakness of the U.N.”— the
more significant because there
has been no stronger supporter
of U.N.O. than N. Y. “Tunes
Hamilton dealt with the nye
regional agreements already m


'mta
tfriisaber
ar
m
m
3
I
GUARANTEED. NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
existence, namely; (1) U.S. and
the Latin American countries;
(2) North Atlantic countries;
(3) Arab League; (4) Soviet
bloc; (5) Australia and New
Zealand. He drew the obvious-
enough conclusion that the need
for such a world-wide system of
alliances is in itself an indictment
of U.N.O.
That applies especially to the
Security Council, already a world
laughing-stock for its futility,
but, as “Christian Science
Monitor” Washington corres-
pondent Roscoe Drummond has
pointed out, open on one pend-
ing account to become even more
ridiculous;
“If,” writes Drummond,
“China becomes a Soviet satel-
lite, such as Poland and Czecho-
slovakia, America’s sponsorship
of China as one of the post-war
|Big Five’ will be one of the wry
ironies of history. In such a role,
a Chinese Communist Govern-
ment would give Moscow two
vetoes on the U.N. Security
Council, so that even if Russia
were a party to a dispute its
Chinese satellite could block
Security-Council action at every
point.”
But without that possible cul-
mination of futility, disillusion-
ment in the U.N.O. body is
now as good as universal,
accounting for the American
support, for the inclusive new
Atlantic security arrangement,
seen by most Americans as offer-
ing, in “Wall-street Journal’s”
summing-up, “the only chance,
such as it is, of salvaging some-
thing useful out of the impending
wreck of the United Nations,”
“For,” comments the
“Journal,” further voicing the
universal view, “the United
Nations, as it stands, is about
done for. Its existence, its meet-
ings, its delirious oratory, its in-
numerable subsidiaries, serve just
one purpose, which is Russia’s
prosecution of a ‘cold war’ of
aggression without effective inter-
ference. All the nations, includ-
ing Russia and her satellites,
profess to rely upon U.N. for
the peaceful adjustment of inter-
national disputes. It is immensely
significant that Russia, while los-
ing no slightest opportunity to
balk the Security Council or the
General Assembly, does not
withdraw from the organisation.
It does not, because as long as
the world pins its hope of equity
among nations to a U.N. which
the Soviet delegates can render
helpless, membership is too
useful to Russia’s aim of world
conquest to be given up.
“Russia’s withdrawal is un-
likely for another but cognate
reason. It would almost imme-
diately bring ‘Western Union
—Stockholm “Tidningen.”
“WHY, CAN’T THEY OPEN THE DOOR?”
into existence as the successor to
U.N. It is hardly conceivable
that the successor, whatever its
name or geographical scope,
would hamstring itself with a
veto-power in the hands of a
single nation. Whether the suc-
cessor league included or ex-
cluded Russia, it would not serVe
that nation’s predatory ends —as
the mere existence of U.N. does
now—so long as no one nation
could defy its will to stop the
conquest of the weak by the
strong,
“Just as U.N, is without an
international military force to
police the disordered regions of
the world, so its successor would
be unless and until its members
not only armed themselves, but
added the industrial capacity
which modern warfare requires
for victory.”
The extent of U.S. involve-
ment in such an arrangement—
fhe one really vital issue—will
presently emerge in the final
shape of the Atlantic Pact.
After that, there might some day,
perhaps, happen the still further
extension referred to by
the N. Y. “Times” U.N.O. corres-
pondent, also looking for a suc-
cessor :
“The only alternative under
serious consideration is an even
more sweeping proposal for a
world-wide pact of mutual de-
fence. This would be based on
the Charter provisions for
regional defence ; and since any
country desiring to do so could
join it, it would be less open to
Soviet charges that it was an
anti-Soviet alliance. In the
present state of world affairs it
is obvious, of course, that the
North Atlantic pact is
intended mainly to provide joint
protection against aggression by
the Soviet Union. But it should
not be forgotten that France and
other. ...members also fear
aggression by a revived Ger-
many, just as Australia and other
Far Eastern countries fear
aggression by a revived Japan.”
Whatever prospects there may
be of an eventual world-
arrangement completely replac-
ing U.N.O. the Atlantic Pact
should at least be getting some-
where nearer security, the “Wall-
street Journal’s” warning* of
“how weak a reed U.N. is to lean
upon” being now questioned
nowhere except at Canberra, if
it is really questioned even there.
In the “Journal’s” hopeful view,
“It may appear in a little time
that a real successor is forming.”
A Soviet Weakness.
Representing quite a lot of
opinion among those seeking to
make something logical out of
the odd-enough puzzle of “why
Russia behaves as it does,”
“Christian Science Monitor”
foreign editor Charles Gratke
concludes that mostly the signs
point to weakness, not strength ;
in one important respect in par-
ticular.
Signs which show through the
“iron curtain,” indicating “the
broad shifts of Soviet internal
policy, and the grave difficulties
which these developments dis-
close,” have lately included the
following, among others:
The displacement of the Com-
munist guerrilla chief in Greece,
General Markos Vafiades.
The trials of Hungary’s
Roman Catholic Primate, Josef
Cardinal Mindszenty, and the
arrest of Protestant missionaries
in Bulgaria. Also, the attacks
on the Lutheran Church in
Hungary and arrest of its Bishop
Ordass.
Political officers introduced
into the Hungarian Army.
The purge of Communist
leaders in Norway.
New asperities between Mos-
cow and Belgrade and between
Prague and Belgrade.
Stringent governmental super-
vision of churches in Rumania.
Criticism of Moscow’s dram-
atic critics for failure to follow
the party line, and the purging
of the already conformist ranks
of economists and natural
scientists in Russia.
Arrests of more generals in
the Czechoslovak Army and re-
striction of Czech labor unions,
In the representative view
quoted> some of aU that might
be for foreign consump-
t j some Q f ft f or internal dis-
c iplinary effect, but this is only
part of the explanation. Stalin,
& short, is held to be d °hig
man y Q f tij ese things because he
, y hi , f r that it is in
can t help mmseir , mat it is m
* be na * ure a dictatorship to
pile restraint upon restraint, just
“° rder '° 8
h & us what is being witnessed
Anus wnai 18 oemg wunesseu
—Richmond (U.S.A.) “Times-Despatch.”
FANCY FOOTWORK HERE, SAM!
through the “iron curtain” in
these glimpses amounts to much
more than any counterblow of
the Kremlin against the Marshall
Plan or the Atlantic Pact, What
it really comes to (in this view)
has been recently analysed by
Professor H. G, Scott in the
“International Journal,” quart-
erly of the Canadian Institute
of International Affairs: “The
real failure of Russia under her
present rulers seems to be in
the sphere of human relation-
ships, in a total inability or un-
willingness to create a spirit of
mutual trust and toleration ”
“In its broadest sense,” the
“Christian Science Monitor”
foreign editor agrees, “this is
indeed the problem of Russia.
In human relationships it has
failed. It is seeking to do with
policemen what it cannot do with
tolerance. And it has taken the
path of persecution in the effort
to excoriate its own fears.”
J. Bull’s Navy.
Though apparently it’s still
short of the old fighting strength,
Britain’s Navy has been con-
siderably improved from the
state it was reported to be in
a year or two back, and, U.S.
Press reports have been pointing
out, the strengthening is quietly
going on.
They mention, for instance,
that, whereas 16 months back
there wasn’t a single British
battleship in service, to carry
on the old tradition, J. Bull
already has in active service
again two battleships, five air-
craft carriers, 15 cruisers, 33
destroyers and 30 submarines
(at least, these are the numbers
that have been disclosed). New
building in the past year has in-
cluded two new aircraft carriers,
as well as destroyers and other
units.
At the same time, strengthen-
ing of the reserve section is re-
ported by the same sources to
have been reassuringly fast in
the past year. Of some 300
warships in the reserve fleet, 150
have been made “ready for any
emergency”; and as well there
is the further strength dispersed
about the world—the total given
as 57 ships on loan to Common-
wealth and other countries.
The Slaves.
Russia’s refusal to allow a
U.N.O. commission to investi-
gate the charges made by
several member-countries that
slave-camps are kept going on
an unprecedented scale in the
“Soviet Paradise” has been rated
by observers close to U.N.O.
as not only an admission of
guilt, but decidedly clumsy
Reties.
The obvious answer, they sug-
gest, should have been to agree,
then arrange a typical “tour,”
since the Russians “are so pro-
Acicnt at showing visitors exactly
what they want to see ” This
mi(?ht no y t sati(ifv all members
might not satisfy all members
of the commission, but, pre-
sented with customary Soviet
1 "**?
many “self would
man y nnnas, wmen itself wouia
be a political triumph,” and “at
the worst, it would be better
than the guilt implied in the flat
refusal.”
In addition to Russia’s own
nationals held and worked as
slaves, the camps may include
well over 3,000,000 prisoners-
of-war —that is, assuming that
very many of those not returned
are still alive. What the sorry
proportion left might be is in-
dicated by the official Italian
figures, according to which, of
115,000 Italians taken prisoner
by Russia, only 12,513 returned.
Dragnet Digest.
Nice, While it Lasts. —Looking into
occupation jobs in Germany and
Japan, “U.S. News and World Re-
port” concludes that they’re soft
snaps, and gives a couple of
examples: “A civilian political-scien-
tist in Germany, living with his
family in a good house and with two
servants, is earning about SBOOO a
year now. His university job back
home paid $3500; it might pay S4OOO
ẁ


DOOLEY'S COD
BY DAUID CAMPBELL
THEY met on the corner by the
Greek’s in the hot main street of the
familiar town ; that broad strip of
hot asphalt that runs uphill between
stores and pubs from the white-railed
bridge and the drying pebbles of the
creek. Here you park at an angle to the
kerb between the pepper-trees, and screw
your head to the moist-eyed lounger
blinking at the hard light from the door-
way of the Royal. A housemaid shook
her mop out over the iron scroll-work
of the upstairs verandah at Sam Pike,
Bill Storey and Jerry.
“A drink,” said Sam Pike. “I’ve
ordered lunch, mixed grills.” And aside,
“Must hurry a few into Jerry. He’s been
walking up and down and telling his son
not to forget to lock the calf up at four.
Does he drink?” Jerry did. He drank
whisky, then switched to beer.
D UT who was this of the bright blue
} e Y e and Donegal coat, parting the
fug with a sharp nose?
“A good cove,” said Sam Pike. “Got a
place on the way to the river; and a way
with the girls. But he’s somewhat given
to boasting. How would you be, Tom?”
Tom’s handshake must have taken
some practice. His hair was sandy, his
chin pointed, his look keen.
So they were going fishing. Pity he
couldn’t get along. He’d take them to
the right spots and show them how to
haul fish from the river. But he worked.
Yes, he remembered a fish ...
And he planted his foot firmly on the
rail, eased the crease of his light grey
trousers at the knee and his eye was on
them.
A spring of hate was bubbling up,
stirring the sand. Bill could see that Jerry
was feeling the same flow. There was a
fresh in the river, Jerry caught,a seventy-
pound cod.
“Probably the biggest fish you ever
caught,” Tom said.
“Yes.”
Well, down at his place last year, Tom
kept four medium-sized fish—nothing
under seventy-three pounds, nothing over
eighty-four pounds— tethered to a willow
on dog-chains. And he lived on fish all
winter. Did they know how to cook cod?
But the laughter bewildered him. Wait
on ; wait on. Where were they going? It
was his shout. Well, he’d have some
lunch,too.
Papalonis was doing very well. His
cafe was next door to an Egyptian palace,
the picture theatre. A Pioneer bus had its
tyre against the kerb and the conductor
in a grey dustcoat was rolling a cigarette
with a friend. But a table had been kept,
and the grills were ready. They were
served with shredded lettuce and music.
To get to them they had to bend their
knees and slide into the alcove.
Sam straightened the paper poppies in
the beer-glass on the table and Jerry read
the menu, keeping to himself. Tom
quoted from a brass plate:
“The proprietor would welcome any
complaints or suggestions.”
“I have a suggestion,” Sam said. “Oh,
yes.”
And he lifted a finger to the girl.
“Keep it clean,” said Tom ; this was a
joke.
She was a fair girl with an underslung
jaw, powdered pimples and a firm bust.
And she would coquette.
“You look pretty right,” she said.
“Wrong,” said Sam. “Look, would
you ask Mr. Papalonis if he’d come
over?”
THE smooth Greek behind the giant
chromium soda bar smiled gravely. He
was like a captain on the bridge of a
Hollywood battleship. After he had sunk
a few more used glasses he would be
over,
“I wrestled him once,” Sara said. “He
trained on garlic and olive oil. He slid
out of my holds as if they were granny-
knots. Then he got me in a reverse
headlock. I threw in the towel.”
Tom began to size up Papalonis. He
came gracefully from behind the bar, a
smooth-skinned Greek with a fine nose,
and a broad smooth forehead. His coat
buttoned without creases.
“Wrestled myself once,” Tom said. “I
could throw that fellow.”
“Mr. Pike!”
The Greek shook hands with both
hands He was happy and grave.
“It’s a long time,” he said. “You’re not
over this way much now.”
“Do you still train on olive oil, Mr.
Papalonis?”
“Ah, ha!” The Greek recognised the
joke and his eyes were long-sighted as he
laughed. He looked through the far
window.
“I’ve given it up, the wrestling, that is.
Too old. And I’m married now. They
were good days.”
Through the window he saw a car pass,
carrying away his youth. Wrestling for
the town, he had almost forgotten that he
was born a foreigner.
“Do you want to buy some trout?”
Sam said. “Sixty pounds delivered on
Thursday.”
'T'HE Greek smiled, shaking his head
f while his eyes remained steady.
“It. is not permitted,” he said. “The
law is against it. Trout flesh is too pink ;
you can tell it. One of the girls served,
it to the sergeant once, and he was back
in half an hour to search the kitchen. But
by that time” —the Greek’s palm was out,
one shoulder was up—“ What do you say
about the bird?”
“It’s flown,” Tom said, and he began
to laugh. He trod on Jerry’s foot under
the table.
“You’re missing a good thing,” Sam
said. “Sixty pounds, all fresh caught.
We could drop them round the back at
the kitchen on Thursday. Or maybe
you’d prefer cod?”
“Cod’s different,” said Papalonis,
Sam looked from Bill Storey to Tom
Leitch.
“Mr. Leitch here could bring you three
or four seventy-pound cod. It’d be no
trouble.”
“Yes, Tom, now there’s something in
your line.”
T* OM shifted uneasily, and Mr. Papa-
* lonis looked on, smiling gently.
“If I wasn’t busy this week,” Tom said.
“No, no.”
Mr. Papalonis was understanding. The
cafe could manage without cod.
“If it wasn’t for the crutching,” Tom
said. “I can catch them all right. All
you need are mice. You take your mouse
and thread the hook through it, like so.
Then you go round your lines and pull
them in. With mice you can’t miss. I’ve
caught cod with mice when no one else
caught anything,”
“Come, Tom,” said Sam. “Mr. Papa-
lonis will provide you with mice. Won’t
you, Mr. Papalonis? You must have
mice in your kitchen?”
“No, no,” said Papalonis. “No mice
here. We have no mice here at all —quite
definitely.”
Papalonis began to back away.
“Then we must find Tom some mice,”
Sam said. “What do you pay for cod a
pound? Is. 10d.? Come now. Don’t be
miserable amongst friends.”
“It’s the market-price,” said Papalonis.
“If I wasn’t crutching ...” Bill said.
“It’s not the money. Here, I’ll pay the
bill. If I wasn’t crutching ...”
“I’d prefer to pay my own lunch,”
Jerry said, and laid two two-shilling bits
on the ticket. “See you outside, Sam.”
“Here, give me that check,” Tom
said, rising. “I’ll pay for the lunch. And
I’ll bring you that cod on Thursday, Mr.
Papalonis.”
As they left, they could hear Tom tell-
ing Papalonis how to cook the cod in its
own fat.
“First you put four nicks in its tail,” he
was saying ; “and hang it up overnight to
bleed.”
OUTSIDE Jerry was a little unsteady
on his feet.
“That fellow,” he said. “What’s his
name? Leitch. That fellow thinks he
can buy our respect with a lunch chit.”
And he lurched under the pepper-trees.
“Must put in a phone-call.”
Sam joined them at the door of the
Commercial. The street wall was tiled
head-high in green, and athletes played
tennis in brewery mirrors.
“You’ve got Tom stirred up,” said
Sam. “But he’ll get out of it for lack of
a mouse. Is it beer we’re after?”
“Phone-call.” And Jerry made off
down the passage,
“I’ll bet,” said Sam, “that he’s going to
remind that son of his to bring the calf
in at four. Pity,” as they strolled out
into the *garden, “we can’t dig up a
mouse. What have we here?”
[—f ERE was a little ’red-headed girl mix-
* 1 ing soap-bubbles on the edge of a
silted-up brick fountain. She was a stalk
of a child, her hair the color of a waratah,
her skin pale between the freckles.
While her nosef ran, she poured the
soapy water from a tin to a bottle.
“Ah, ha,” said Sam, swinging a foot to
the fountain-edge. “Making bubbles?”
“Pison,” said the child.
“You don’t tell me?”
“It killed the goldfish,” the child said.
“And then we had turtles.”
She poured the satanic froth from the
bottle to the tin.
“And did you poison the turtles?”
“There were two big turtles,” said the
child. “And then one day a man called
and left a little turtle,”
“He was a kind man,” said Sam.
“I used to play with the little turtle.”
The child looked up from green cat’s-eyes
through pale lashes. “But Mummy took
them back to the river.”
A shadow passed over the garden.
“And now,” said Sam. “You have no
one to play with?”
“Oh, yes, white mice.”
And white mice, she seemed to say,
were the only companions after goldfish
and turtles. L Very carefully she refilled the
bottle,
SAM was gripping Bill tightly by the
forearm and he looked hurriedly
around the deserted wilderness of the
garden. In Bill Storey’s ear he whispered
to his conscience, “Did you hear that?
Well, well. It will be a happy release for
the mice.
“Little girl,” he said aloud. “Do you
like ice-cream?”
“Yes,” said the child.
“And chocolates? Big round puffed
chocolates filled with cream and syrups?”
“Yes,” said the child,
“And fruit? Purple grapes and bags
filled with pears and oranges?”
From the corner of the child’s mouth
a trickle started that overflowed her chin
and made dark stains on her blue bodice.
She stood transfixed with greed, her
poison forgotten.
“Yes,” she said.
“Very well, then.” Sam was eyeing
her coldly. “Say nothing to anybody.
Go without delay and bring here your
white mice. If there is a box to put them
in, so much the better. I myself will go
to the fruit-shop and the confectioner.
When I return, if you have the white
mice and are willing to part with them,
I will give you in exchange such a load
of good things that you will think it is
Christmas, New Year and your seventh
birthday all on the one day. But remem-
ber, not a word to anyone. I am the
man who gave the young turtle to the
two bigger ones.” ’
Like a traffic-light, the red-haired child
vanished.
“Wait here,” said Sam to Bill. And
he made off around the building.
BILL sat on the edge of the dry foun-
tain at the back of the hotel and
watched the doors. The sun burned the
back of his neck like a sense of guilt.
Very shortly the child came panting back,
a wire-faced butterbox clasped to her
chest. Inside, whiskers twitching with
curiosity, a snowfall of mice peered pink-
eyed from behind a cabbage-leaf.
“Am I too late?” she cried.
“No, no,” Bill said.
And the mice and the child and Bill
awaited with varying emotions the return
of Sam.
“Ah-ha!” Sam came around the
corner like an uncle from the east,
oranges spilling around him as he walked.
“Lend a hand, there.”
And thus placed the bags and boxes on
the rim of the fountain.
“Now for the mice.” Sam shook them
up, counted them. “Six,” he said. “A
fair deal. Are you satisfied, little girl,
to part with your butterbox?”
The child nodded, for her mouth was
swollen with sweets.
“Then I declare it a sale. Should you
feel sick later in the afternoon, take some
oil and an hour’s rest. Are we ready?”
Sam had the crate of mice under his
arm.
“Hey!” cried a voice. And there at
the back door were Jerry and the proprie-
tress.
There were no explanations, for Sam
and Bill fled.
This hurt Jerry. He walked with cat
dignity across the street from the pub
while angry looks were exchanged behind
the glass doors, and stout women peered
after him from the high verandah. And
he said no, he wasn’t annoyed. Still, they
didn’t have to live in the town. He said
it was lucky that he’d had his wallet with
him, but who was going to repay his
one-pound note he could not tell. And
he looked at his watch and saw it was
four o’clock, and he said he expected his
son had forgotten to get the calf in.
“Well, well, we’ve got the mice locked
up at any rate,” Sam said. “Here, Jerry,
you hop in the back beside them. All
right? And don’t worry about that
pound: we pass Tom Leitch’s place on
the way to the river.”
And they set off along the hard red
road towards the mountains.
At the seven-mile they passed Tom’s
utility. Tom was driving slowly and
waved them to stop. But Sam drove
straight on in a windstorm of red dust.
“Got to keep him interested,” he said.
“Easy,” said Jerry. “Easy, Sam.”
THEY bounced up the mountain road
between the stones and slim, angel-
white gumtrees until the blond grass
spread out below like a flame over the
huddling hills. And all the way, Tom’s
horn sounded frorp the dust. At Sandy
Creek he caught them.
“Didn’t you see me wave,” he said, “or
hear me toot? I’ve been in your dust
for five miles.”
“Sorry about that,” said Sam.
“Well,” said Tom, though his eyes
were red and angry, “now we’re here,
how about a rum? That’s all I was
stopping you for.” He brought out the
glasses. “It’s good rum, not the sort you
get every day. Go ahead.”
“Not for me,” Jerry said. “Not so soon
after lunch.”
“You know,” said Tom, and he looked
at his glass ; “mice are impossible to come
by, quite impossible.”
“Well, that’s a funny thing,” said Sam.
looking into his glass. “We must have
been lucky. We’ve got a crate of them.
Here, they’re yours, Tom.”
“Oh, I couldn’t do that,” said Tom.
“As a matter of fact we were thinking
of you when' we bought them, werent
we, Jerry? Intended to drop them m
your mail-box.” ,
“In that case,” said Tom, “that s great,
Sam. That’s I didn’t think you a
be able to get any.” . # .
He put the box of white mice beside
him in the front seat of the utility.
The Sunday Sands.
“Wide, wide as the ocean,
High as the heavens above ”
The preacher bids them sing.
Children, gritty, bare.
Old people wall-bound, draping
Fast to the stone.
The balancers, the healthy boys.
Legs in air.
He lures them to a ring.
He leads the drone.
But gulls a shriller song are shaping,
Cruel as the spin and hard cut of the sand,
Or the wind endlessly
Hacking the pliant sea,
Sad as the Highland Band,
The pipes’ braying.
The flogging drum.
Or voices praying ,
Estranged Kingdoms to come.
And darkness needs no prayer.
The faithful stray.
Down from the closing air
Birds repossess the bay.
Then, while they lull their cry
To scull the crawling tide
Freely again.
Two verities remain:
The heaven’s high;
The ocean’s wide.
N.Z.
J. CAMERON SMITH.


‘There were difficulties,” Sam said.
“I won’t deny that. In fact, they worked
out to be quite expensive: six shillings
a head. That’s thirty-six shillings the
lot, with the butterbox thrown in. But
you’ll soon get that back from Papalonis.”
“That seems pretty steep for mice,”
Tom said. “That seems very steep in-
deed. There are some of my old wethers
wouldn’t bring six bob.”
“Come now,” said Sam. “These mice
are white. And it’s not as if you were
buying several thousand of them. That
would be different. But as it is the sum’s
hardly worth bothering about. And if
you’re a bit short...”
Tom paid up. And they stood in the
skeleton shade of a yellow-box tree and
stamped the meat-ants from their boots
and drank his rum.
Tom tossed the empty down a culvert.
“Ah well,” he said. “I’ll be over early
tomorrow. See you then.”
He clambered in beside tne white mice.
“See you tomorrow, Tom!”
Bill and Jerry and Sam drove on down
to the river in the violet forge-light of
evening.
T* HERE is something sordid about a
* tent in the early morning: the dust,
the ants, the empty bottles, the stale taste
of a cigarette between blankets.
Bill was saying, “Right, boys, the early
rise. Sun’s on the water. Rise and
shine; rise and shine...” And he
clapped his hands together with a hollow
sound.
Outside, under the gumtree, among the
sticks and leaves and thistles, Jerry
mourned.
“A little stomach hpset,” he said.
“Nothing to worry about. Something
I’ve eaten.”
In creased pyjamas, he sagged beneath
the tree.
Splash.
IN the cold pool under the bridge,
there was the taste of snow and stone.
Three strokes out through the black
water, then back to the bank with a
bunyip in the wake. And this time some-
thing was really in the pool, a shadow, a
sulky swirl. From the white rails Bill
looked down, dripping, and a blunt shape
filled the reflection of the pile.
“Here is a fish,” he said. “Here is the
fish that got away.”
And the billy boiled over into the fire
with a shaking of the crosswire and a hiss
and spit of smoke and steam while Bill
weighed the cod with one wide eye.
“Close on eighty pounds, I’d say,” he
said.
“Stranded,” said Jerry.
“And not a mouse in our kit,” said
Sam.
And with the laughter, the magpies
came in and said it was morning, the sun
flowed into the green mountain valley,
and across the paddocks on a piebald nag
rode Dooley-the-storekeeper’s daughter
bringing in the cows. She was young
and pretty and became the morning. Bill
dressed, humming “Corn rigs an’ barley
rigs.” Her name was Annie.
THERE were trout for breakfast,
cooked in the coals in a jacket of
damp newspaper. The skin peeled away
with the charred paper and the pink
flesh came cleanly from the bone. While
they ate the ducks came by on strong
wings. Hush. A flight landed through
the bridge with a pout of spray and
crescent ripples. Even Sam was silent.
The rings broadened and lapped the
banks.
“I tell you,” said a voice.
And the ducks rose. But there is a
moment in the rising of a duck when,
with spread wings, it is motionless and
upright, a phoenix above the closing pool.
“I tell you,” the storekeeper was say-
ing, “that that there cod is my cod. Been
stranded in this hole since February the
11th, when they lowered the level of the
weir. That there cod is known high and
low in this district as Dooley’s cod. A
Thursday, it was.”
And there, sure enough, behind him
was Tom Leitch, in shirt, shorts and
sandshoes, a heavy, brick-red sportsman
with uncommonly white knees. He had
not seen the fishermen below.
“First I’ve ever heard of uncaught cod
being private property —particularly on
public stock-routes,” said Tom.
“A THURSDAY,” Dooley repeated.
** “There were two young fellers
come that day angling to get it. But
when they learned it was Dooley’s cod,
they up and gave up bothering it.”
“Bothering it,” said Tom, “be damned.
I aim to grill it.”
“That so?” said Dooley. “Is that a
fact then? You aim to grill Dooley s
cod?” And Dooley began to cough and
to laugh ; to beat his chest and cough
and laugh; and between while, before he
turned and walked, shaking and coughing,
back along the blue-metal road towards
his cloth-cap of a store, he managed to
shake out, “Well, young feller (cough),
if you aim to cook Dooley’s cod (ha ha!)
all I can say is (cough, ha ha!) youll
need a whale of a big frying-pan.”
“Hey, there, Tom!”
“Ha!”
Tom flung up an indifferent arm in
dispatch and greeting and sat on the
bridge with his knees around the crate of
mice like a fat boy with a pie. Through
the rails they could see him fumbling in
the crate and heard him mutter, “Come,
sweet, sweet, Nice little mouse. Come
out of there, you little brute.” The
mice escaped in a fall of snow, but Tom
said it was all right. He had brought
some bardi grubs, just in case.
“Not poaching Dooley’s cod!” said
Sam.
“Dooley’s cod be damned!”
< ‘ LJ ERE, here, Tom, now. This is a
1* terrible thing. Pinching a poor
man’s tucker. Not like you, Toni. Think
of his starving kids. You won’t sleep
with that cod flapping on your con-
science.”
“Wouldn’t like it myself,” said Bill.
Tom sat cross-legged on the bridge,
paying his line out, but his mind had
withdrawn to its kennel like a dog with a
bone.
“That’s all right,” he said. “Mind out,
Sam. I’ll need room to play this feller.
You’ll see some fun in a moment.
Caught cod with bardi grubs when no
one else could catch them.”
The sun slanted through the cracks
in the bridge and they leaned over the
rail and watched Tom play the bait in
the brown current about the bull-nose of
the cod. The line bobbed and wound,
and the cod slept.
“Ah-ha,” said Tom. “A casual fellow.
This is going to be a battle of wits.”
He was right, for at that moment a
stone landed in the pool.
Tom was on his feet and racing down
the bridge towards Dooley, who stood
short in the middle of the road, a pile
of blue-metal at his feet.
“Out of it,” cried Tom. “Off with
you! On your way.”
But Dooley stood his ground and
brought back his arm to bowl. And
Dooley had changed.
He stood there on the road in the
morning under the range of Alps, a small
man in big boots that buckled at the
instep and looked up at the sky. But his
face was lined and grey and grave.
There was sadness there, but no anger.
It was the face of a religious assassin.
He threw another stone into the pool.
“Go to it, Dad,” cried a chorus of
voices from the store.
“Here, here, let’s be reasonable,” said
Tom.
But all Dooley would say was, “That
there cod is my cod. Dooley’s cod they
call it.”
“Right,”
AND things began to move.
Tom returned from the cutting
up the road with six navvies with crow-
bars and Sam brought out the rum
bottle.
“Hot day,” said the foreman, pushing
back his hat under the gum-tree. “Don’t
mind if I do. We’ll have that cod out
for you in a jiffy.”
And he rubbed over the mouth of the
bottle with the palm of his hand, threw
back his head, said “Ah!” and walked
off with Tom to inspect the job.
“All right, Harry,” he said. “Prise
up this plank here. Easy does it. Now
let’s see. Give us that bar there.”
He sighted down the bar at the fish,
let go and said, “That’ll be him.”
But as the bar pierced the water the
cod moved like a cloud-shadow across
the pool.
“Hum,” said the foreman, rubbing his
whole hand over the flat of his face and
pausing for a moment with his nose
pressed to one side, “Well, thanks, mate,
don’t mind if I do. Very spry fish that.
Artful, them big fellers. Still, too early
to worry yet. Thanks, mate. Hitch a
length of rope about the end of this
bar, Harry. We’ll harpoon him. Now,
up with this plank, men.”
When the fifth plank had been levered
from the bridge with a scream of rusty
metal, Harry was sent off to the cutting
for the road-signs. They were propped
up at the approaches to the bridge, pro-
claiming in black on gold
DANGER
MEN AT WORK.
“See what the drivers of them timber
lorries want, Harry,” said the foreman.
Harry leaned on his knee on the
runningboard of the first truck, took out
the makings and rolled himself a cigar-
ette. Every now and then he flung his
arm up-river while the driver felt his
chin, his pale-blue eyes lost in the dis-
tances of the ranges.
“How far’s Coppin’s Crossin’, Joe?”
shouted Harry.
“ ’Bout twelve miles,” called the fore-
man.
“ ’Bout twelve miles?” said Harry.
“Thereabouts.”
“He wants to know,” called Harry,
“what the bottom’s like?”
“Bottom’s all right so far’s I know,”
shouted the foreman. “But it’s a long way
doVvn, Come on, Harry; can’t waste all
day.”
“Bit of a Tartar,” Harry said sideways
as he left. “If you’ll take my advice,
mate, you’ll go home or boil the billy.” *
“We’re waitin’ on you, Harry,” shouted
the foreman. “Now, hitch that rope good
and proper this time.”
P) OWN the stockroute in a shimmer
of red dust, to the click and squeal
of the drover’s wagon, came a mob of
Murdoch’s sheep.
And from the oat stubble behind the
store came Dooley, Mr. Claymore and the
station-hands. Claymore had been getting
in the oaten hay.
It was a hot morning, the river was
cool, and Claymore listened to Dooley’s
story with widening eyes.
“That’s not right,” he said slowly.
“Now that’s not right, now. That’s not
right at all.”
And the haymakers shouldered their
pitchforks and set off towards the bridge.
Sam met them with the rum-bottle.
It was noon on the river. The gum-
trees idled in their rings of shade, the
willows wept into the stream and there
was no stir in the valley except on the
bridge. There they sat on the rails,
fishermen, drovers and timber-drivers,
and spat into the still water and barracked
for Dooley and Tom.
“I’ll lay even money the field,” cried
Sam, thumping his palm with the bottle.
“Bar one. Two to one Donley.”
THE little man was clambering along
the cross-stays of the piers while his
wife called, “Mind, John, mind ; mindful
of your chest, John,” and Annie stood on
the bank with the children, merry and
shy and proud, swinging a meat-axe so
that her shirt made a ridge between her
high young breasts. The children cried,
the man laughed and barracked, and
Dooley went in.
He went in deliberately, like a felled
tree, the pitchfork tucked trident fashion
beneath his arm. And a cry went up,
“He’s got him! Good on y’, Dooley!
Hold tight, mate!”
Dooley held tight and went down in a
swirl of froth and blood. The children
screamed, Mrs. Dooley took off her stock-
ings and Dooley was hauled from the
river on the end of a rope.
. He stood on the bank coughing, one
small bare foot covering the other, and
he said “If it hadn’t ’a’ been for them
boots, I had ’im.”
“Cover your father’s feet, Annie,” said
Mrs. Dooley. “He’s modest about them,”
she told the air.
And the handle of the pitchfork moved
slowly between the piles.
The foreman restored order.
“Move along please, madam,” he cried.
“Clear the bridge there. Blasting in pro-
gress. There are twelve sticks of jelly in
that there tin. Mind yT eye, men. Twitch
her to the right, Harry.”
FAR up the river Harry twitched a
length of line, the biscuit-tin circled
in an eddy and exploded.
Crump.
Water and fish rose from the pool. A
deluge fell on the fine afternoon.
And while the drover’s mare bolted
through the sheep up into the mountains,
the wagon squeal-
ing and swaying
and spilling pots
and sheepskins;
while the children
scattered into the
standing corn and
Dooley swore and
Mrs. Dooley cried,
and men sat down
to laugh, and dust
rose and spread
above the bridge,
Annie walked into
the river and
finished off the cod.
She walked in between the new-moon
bellies of dead trout to where the cod
gasped anfd thrashed in the pool, and
there, up to her armpits and raising the
meat-chopper in both hands, she struck
it a blow between the eyes.
She dragged the dead fish to a bar of
sand and stood smiling and shy, her
figure showing sweetly through her wet
clothes and the great cod bleeding at her
feet.
“Annie,” cried Mrs. Dooley. “You’ll
catch your death.”
But who owned the cod? Tom talked
in the one breath of dynamite and legal
aspects; while Dooley, bidding his
daughter to stand fast and his wife to com-
pose herself (“Cut the capers, Maisie!”),
repeated that that there cod was Dooley’s
cod—always had been for that matter —
and that the day’s fortunes had only
borne him out. And he thanked God
and Annie.
Lj R. CLAYMORE settled the matter.
He scratched his head thoughtfully
beneath his hat, and he said, well, now,
it was a fine big cod at that, but he knew
of no cod worth falling out over; and if
both parties were agreeable, all present
could sit down to cod steaks that night
in his kitchen at Long Tom station.
“Good on y’, Mr. Claymore,” said all
present.
* “There are a couple of Murdoch’s
wethers here been run over and may come
in handy,” said the drover.
“I’ve two stuffed ducks,” said Bill
Storey.
“Dress, I expect, informal,” said one
of the truck-drivers.
“Come as you are. Nothing fancy.”
And while the roadmen put the bridge
together, the cod and the sheep were
hoisted on to the station-wagon and
carried off up the hill to the kitchen.
“Make yourselves at home,” said Clay-
more. “Here’s the rum and there’s the
water at the sink. Have a good one, Sam,
while you’re about it.”
SAM had a good one. The lamp swung
its circle of yellow in the low-slabbed
kitchen and cod steaks hissed in the pins
on the great stove. And from the
corners and the weighing of guns and
rifles, from the walls and the contempla-
tion of rainfall charts years old, from the
crossed window where night could be
seen creeping with the field-mice into the
stocks of hay, men came together under
the circle of light. There Dooley coughed
happily because he’d been gassed in the
Great War, beat his chest and rolled a
sleeve to bare a bayonet wound.
“But I got the Jerry, son.”
Brassy recaptured his runaway wagon
with many oaths, begging Annie’s pardon.
The foreman called for “More rum,
Harry,” his little finger crooked and the
pannikin lost in his huge fist. Bill and
Jerry talked rods and reels. And a
station-hand broke a brumby stallion with
such violence that Sam was thrown upon
the stove.
“My God! Easy, man,” said Sam.
“Did you bleed that cod first, Tom?”
“We did, didn’t we, Annie?”
And he got a brown-eyed, soft re-
sponse.
“Ah, ha. So that’s the way it goes?
Love in a chimney-corner. Annie,
Annie.”
And Sam withdrew to the wall in
thought, hand to brow for ten minutes.
“Ha, silence,” he cried.
“ ’Twas Thomas Leitch of Buttermutt
Who sold ten thousand sheep,
His cattle-dog and milking cows,
His horse and harness, cheap.
He sold his plant, he sold his place—■
They went at any price;
And off to town went Thomas Leitch
And bought a crate of mice.”
The light faded from his eyes, but
Claymore and Brassy joined him, locked
arms about his shoulders, and in a huddle,
with a shipboard roll, they recited to the
floor.
4 4 \A*/ HERE’S Annie?” said Sam,
* « rising.
“And Leitch?” said Brassy. “That
bloke’s dynamite where women are con-
cerned.”
“First he tries to poach me cod,” said
Dooley. “And the next I know, he’s
pinching me eldest daughter.”
“Bill-lill! Annnnnnnnneeeeeeee! ”
An owl replied across the moonlit
sheaves, “More pork, More talk.”
A great silence drifted through the
paddocks from the river on the tiny
voices of crickets and frogs. The stocks
stood still.
“Annnnnneeeeee! ”
“More talk.”
The night and the owl and the sheaves
seemed to wait like children for the door
to shut, to be left alone under the moon.
From the river a curlew spoke of un-
known things.
“No good blundering about here all
night,” said Claymore. “Annie’s as safe
as a bank.”
“More talk.”
THE moon shone for a moment and
was shut out. In the kitchen they
sang songs, rocking to and fro in the thick
lamplight. And Annie came in quietly
and shut the door.
“Where’ve you been?” said Dooley.
“Out.”
“Where’s Leitch?”
“Asleep.”
Bill and Jerry and Sam went to Tom’s
utility, and there he was sprawled across
the seat. They shook him, they slapped
his face, he did not stir.
“Usually a good drinker,” Sam said.
“Out like a light.”
So they put the head of the cod in his
arms and went on with the party.


TINTARA
GOLD LABEL PORT
m
m
mm
7
All the
Honours.
You can be sure your
judgment is sound if your
call is Tintara Gold Label
Port. Tintara Port holds
Championship honours in Aus-
tralia's greatest wine shows. I often
wonder what the Vintners buy, one
half so precious as the goods they
sett' !—OMAB KHAYYAM
MASS BY TAP MAS & SONS LtD., Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney
EH9B
CUAKD
PROTECTA
stfnl - SiU Rig.
TILL
Bailable for every type of basinet* II records
all Sales. Credits, Payouts etc. Strongly built,
pleasing in appears nee. Send for full details
and literatarr la
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Ditirfbuting Agent*—
SYDNEY
MELBOURNE .
ADELAIDE
PERTH #
W. C Penfold A Co. Pty. Ltd.
, Norman Brea. Ply. Ltd.
• Vardon A Sons Ltd.
• Deckel Book Co. iAosl.l
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NU Liquid NU-METAL
througlj plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive.
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934,
many owners having used NU-METAL
three and four times in the same engine.
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment
costs for 1, 4. 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,
37/6, 45/-. Call, write, or phone MA7250.
Mail Orders post free. C.OJJ.’s phis
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
[Name ......... ~
Address .......^
* B. 30/3/’49
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA 7250.
Face Facts
s;
#:
More than 20 feet, of hair grow on a man’s face each
day nearly a mile and a half in a year! That’s a fact,
for each of the 25,000 hairs, the average crop of an
Australian male, grows at the rate of at least 1/100 inch
each day. A tough assignment for a razor blade?
Certainly, but it can be tackled comfortably by using
Blue Gillette Blades daily—they have the sharpest edges
in the world.
<s>
<s>
m
rv
O
'Good Mornings' begin with Gilleiie
BLUE
Gillette
BLADES
TEN FOR 3/- FITE FOR 1/6
SUNDRY SHOWS
E. PHILLIPS POX.
Portraits among an exhibition
of the work of E. Phillips Fox
at the N.S.W. National Art Gal-
lery bring irresistably to mind
the celebrated “S. M., Herald”
aphorism, “William Dobell is
the only portrait-painter we have
ever had” —a remark which de-
serves immortality as a measure-
ment of current daily-newspaper
appreciation of Australian art.
If portraits by famous Aus-
tralians in the national art gal-
leries of this continent, in semi-
public collections such as that
established by Howard Hinton
at the Teachers’ College, Armi-
dale (N.S.W,), and in private
homes had not already made
nonsense of that statement,
Phillips Fox’s portraits would.
For Emmanuel Phillips Fox
(born 1865, died 1915), whose
large, sun-dappled, traditionally
symbolic “Summer” is familiar
to most visitors to the Sydney
Gallery, and whose almost
equally large “Art Students” is
as familiar, is known best, at
least in Sydney, as a painter on
a large scale who, like Rupert
Bunqy, found full expression in
canvases which impress by their
very compass and color. Like
Bunny, too, Phillips Fox studied
and won honors in Paris ; he was
an associate of the Salon dcs
Beaux Arts in 1908 and was
awarded full Salon honors in the
following year.
Like Bunny, too, Phillips Fox
has painted numbers of early
French impressionist-style land-
scapes. After this lapse of time
his impressionistic landscapes—
“ Bridge at Cordova,” “Seascape,
France,” “Boulevarde, Port
Royal,” “Twilight on the Seine,”
“The Kasbah, Tangiers” and
“Mediterranean Coast, Le
Brusc” —appear as thin, aca-
demic pieces; aberrations and
fancies rather than developments
of his genius, which was, in any
case, minor.
“Chateau Guillard on the
Seine,” an oil painted in 1906, a
view of craggy peaks against dim
water, has a certain picturesque
power, and “Cabbage Patch,
France” (painted in 1880), is a
beautiful bit of vivid impres-
sionism, the green rows of vege-
tables sparkling in sunshine be-
fore a river bank and finely-
articulated trees. But what
emerges from the exhibition as
a whole is the fact that Phillips
Fox, as a portrait-painter, was
not very far behind Lambert and
Longstaff,
Australia, in fact, has been
rich in portrait-painters, and the
Sydney Gallery has had for
many years a beautiful child
portrait, “Adelaide,” by Phillips
Fox. In the present ex-
hibition there is another child
study, “Rosie” (lent by Mrs. G.
Clancy), which is a companion
contrast —a child of about the
same age, only instead of being
fair she is dark. The painting is,
if anything, more animated.
But Phillips Fox was more
than a painter of charming
children. His portrait of Henry
Gyles Turner has dignity and
weight and a kind of keen mas-
culine grace—the bearded figure
posed with one lean hand on
the padded side of a chair, the
other with a finger marking a
place in a book. The face is re-
plete with character and not al-
together amiable, and there is
exquisite craftsmanship shown in
the details of hands, dress and
white hair and whiskers floating,
as it were, into the darkness of
the background.
In different fashion Phillips
Fox shows the charm of
maturity and dignity in his
Portrait of Mr?. Ellis. With-
out overloading the with
detail he gets the full dramatic
essence from a gleaming ring,
lace at the throat, a brooch and
a golden chain. There is a-kind
of loving richness in all this, a
roundness and sophistication,
And m ms portraits or young
girls he achieves, at times, both
character and a floating and
lyrical grace, and contrasts as
dramatic as that of a picture of
a girl, all darkness and youth
and sensitivity, with a vital and
blonde French peasant standing
in a field.
There is another phase of
Phillips Fox s work already
familiar; his ( large plein air
studies which are technically
commendable and have the
charm of a period. But his more
visionary flights—the large sym-
bolic nude of “Summer” which,
if U is passionless, is chastely
beautiful—are more typical of
his powers and defects. Of the
latter some are technical—the
paint appears to have de-
teriorated on some of the
paintings—but the vision behind
them is serene and decorative
alSugh n“
powerful. Aid where he has
succeeded in blending the two
aspects of his talent, as in some
of his portraits of women, the
picture emerges clear as a moun-
tain morning, something seem-
ingly indepeident of subject and
t'tWtnr a wnrt nf art
Russell Drysdale.
The talents of Russell „Drys-
dale, exhibiting at the Macquarie
Galleries, Sydney, can be
summed up in three words;
hillbillies and erosion. And,
although it cannot be denied
that soil erosion is common in
Australia, it must be denied that
Drysdale’s paintings are in any
way typical of Australian earth
or humanity. There is, in fact,
something typically American
about his elongated men and
splay-footed women and about
has lightless and distorted
stretches of sombre red country-
side ; something derived from a
French influence and useful,
artistically, in a limited way, in
its American application, but
already spent.
It cannot even be said that
Drysdale, in his study of a coun-
try town —“Wyalong”—or his
feeble satire —“The Councillor’s
House” —has observed faithfully
and recorded realistically.
His portrait of Margaret Olley
is reddish and undistinguished—
he has a clinging addiction to
the use of crude primary coleus.
There is no, breath of the joy-
ousness or the drama of art in
Drysdale’s paintings, and noth-
ing but the most crudely dis-
torted truth. They are not uni-
versal ; they are not Australian ;
they are, in fact, as shallow as
some of his erosion gullies and
as empty as his hollow logs.
* * * *
Betty Gibson has pleasant oils
and watercolors on view at the
Grosvenor Galleries, Sydney.
Among European scenes a
“Farmyard in Normandy” and
“On the Seine” are the most
pleasing; some flower-pieces,
full of delicate color, are the
best of the exhibition.
Melbourne Music.
This has perforce to be mainly
about the Melbourne Town Hall
ventilation system. The T.H.
v.s. has been hissing at orches-
tras, celebrated conductors and
eminent virtuosi for almost as
far back as audiences can re-
member. Nobody seems to
please it. Last year it hissed
some of the world’s greatest
executants and showed as much
disapprobation of Miss Menu-
hin as it did of Harold Blair and
Paul KleckL This year it dis-
played such manifest dis-
approval of Isador Goodman
that once the pianist looked like
vacating the platform.
The only performers who have
been able to contend with the
T.H, v.s, successfully have been
Rawicz-Landauer and Albert
Argenti, the popular young
Melbourne tenor, who is off to
Europe. Argenti was at a dis-
tinct advantage in having a voice
with the volume and penetration
of a steam calliope and having
no inhibitions about using it at
full strength. Moreover, he was
backed by a string ensemble
equipped with every known
shape of mandolin, guitar and
banjo with strong men behind
them, and his repertoire of
Italian opera arias and Neapoli-
tan love lyrics lent itself to
robust singing. All Argenti
seems to lack is knowledge of
phrasing and production.
Rawicz and Landauer, having
two pianos, also have a definite
advantage over their unseen
antagonist, and huge houses
have been attending their con-
certs, which, on their own plane,
are exciting, technically astound-
ing and sometimes artistic.
Their performance of “The Nut-
cracker Suite” of Tschaikowsky
was amazing, but Gretchaninof’s
“Lullaby” was diddicums in
music, and in the Hungarian
Rhapsody No, 2, of Liszt, they
sounded as if they were hammer-
ing on wood.
Schramm's Chopin.
Paul Schramm set the standard
for his night devoted to Chopin
at the Sydney Con. with a virile
playing of the Polonaise in E
Flat Minor. Musically this ex-
ample of the ceremonial Polish
dance is superior to the more
pppular ones, the Military and
the A Flat Major. The slow
section is particularly impres-
sive, and here the pianist was
at his least.
Another Polonaise, in F Sharp
Minor, was a study in well-
controlled dynamics. The B
Minor Sonata, a more cogent
work than the B Flat Minor,
was played with an admirable
mixture of vitality and sensitive-
ness. Schramm, whose playing
in the recesses of the left hand
is always strongly masculine,
swung to the extremes of deli-
cacy in such gossamer offerings
as the Berceuse, the Waltz in
C Sharp Minor, the Prelude in
the same key and the Im-
promptu in F Sharp Major.
A rousing rendition of the
Bolero, with its well-simulated
Iberian atmosphere, rounded off
a thoroughly satisfying pro-
gramme.


WITH AN
mm
HEAT-STORAGE COOKER
No switches to turn, no gas to light! Your AGA
Is ready day and night! Featherlight cakes .. . superb
roasts .. . grills done to a sizzling turn! Thanks to even,
scientifically distributed heat, the AGA cooks every type *
of food to perfection. And no matter how much you
cook you can’t increase the AGA’s fuel-bills, for this
British-made cooker has a guaranteed maximum fuel con-
sumption! The AGA is guaranteed for 10 years against
faulty materials or workmanship.
DEMONSTRATION
Conte and see the AGA Cooker in actiont Adnure
its smiling chromium plate, and sparkling easyy
to-clean, cream-coloured, enamel.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Sole Agents for AGA Heat Storage Cooker
45 King Street, Sydney. 432 Bonfire Street. Melbourne.
Showrooms: Colton, Palmer & Preston Ltd., Currie St., Adelaide!
Cnr. Margaret & Albert Streets, Brisbane.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster & Sons Ltd., Hobart,
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd., Perth.
Ancestors oj
an Industry
Sir Joseph Wilson Swan laid the founda-
tions of two great modern industries. He was one
of the inventors of the carbon filament lamp, fore-
runner of the modern electric light bulb. He was
also the first to produce a practical artificial silk.
This he made by dissolving nitro-cellulose in acetic
add and squirting it through a small orifice into a
coagulating fluid, thus forming a long continuous
thread. Some of these threads were crocheted into
lace which was shown at the Inventions Exhibition
of 1885 as "Artificial Silk." Swan was too pre-
occupied with his lamp—which was patented in
1880 —and did not exploit his new fibre. It was
developed by others and gave rise to the modern
rayon industry.
Born in Sunderland in 1828, Swan worked as assis-
tant to a firm of manufacturing chemists in that
town, later becoming a partner in another firm at
Newcastle-on-Tyne. His numerous inventions and
discoveries earned him the Fellowship of the Royal
Society in 1894, and a knighthood eight years later.
The millions of electric light bulbs
in use all over the world are a
greater tribute to the genius of this
British scientist than the honours
he received during his lifetime.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
91/W/1I
SPOR TING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
RED MILL RUM.
Good horses came good, and in
good style, too, at Moonee Valley
on Saturday; the outstanding ones,
Filipino splendidly winning the
Alister Clark Stakes, Scotwyn re-
covering his long-lost form, and Star
Port also returning belatedly to the
winning-list. And there were others.
Filipino’s was a particularly attrac-
tive performance. No horse racing
at present gives a better impression
of sheer soundness. It’s a quality
that wins races like the Doncaster.
Moreover, he has the other main
attribute, speed, as had been proved
by his third in the Oak-
leigh flutter, and also in the mile
Lloyd Stakes, in which he was just
beaten in the last stride.
In the Valley’s near-classic event
Filipino carried top weight (8.11),
equalled Nagation’s 1944 course
record (2.2£ for the 10 furlongs),
gave G. Bougoure an armchair ride,
and was a length-and-a-half ahead
of Phoibos at the end. He had one
lucky break that at least made the
task easier: Bougoure kept him on
the rails behind the fast pacemakers,
Beau Gem and Chatspa, counting on
the short cut that duly came when
Beau Gem, tiring, went wide at the
turn. Filipino, however, would have
won without that break.
Phoibos, too, ran a good race. He,
also, was kept on the rails, but was
too ’ far back at the turn into the
short straight to have any chance of
overhauling Filipino, and, in fact,
only barely cut Stamen out of second
money. Unless he trains off, Filipino
should do well in the Sydney Easter
racing, and Phoibos should certainly
pay his fare to Queensland, where
he’s heading for the big Doomben
prizes coming up there later.
One thing—the time, 1.12$ —de-
tracted from Scotwyn’s defeat of
Spoor, Bidwell and others in the
three-year-olds’ Sydenham Handi-
cap (about six furlongs). Scotwyn
carried top weight and won con-
vincingly, though narrowly; but in
the second division the lightly-
weighted Royal Hero did the journey
in 1.1 H, clearing away to a five-
lengths win from the somewhat
cranky Heliofly, with Magnetic Vale
third.
Star Port came good again in
defeating Merry Imp, Star of India
and the rest in a division of the
6-furlongs Woodlands Highweight,
Coiffure taking the other division
from Viceroy and Production.
Another recovery of form was
French Pact’s defeat of Kntm,
Lynette and the rest in the 10-furlongs
Sherwood Handicap for three-year-
olds ; and the High Title gelding
Dornoch showed out as an evident
good one in easily winning the
6-furlongs two-year-old Hollymount
Handicap from Charka and Kintail—
two wins from as many starts for
Dornoch.
, • • • •
Chatsol, who gallops well at the
Valley-—when in the mood, which is
seldom —returned his 55.-win-tote
optimists a dividend of £23 3s. in
downing Panmure and Lunar Lynx
in the 13-furlongs Moonce Ponds
Handicap.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Far the best performance at Rose-
hill on Saturday was Bembrook’s
defeat of Heroic Sovereign, Crag-
side and the rest of a big field in
the 7-furlongs Flying Handicap.
Kept by Sellwood a handy third to
Trover and Belle Cherie to the turn,
the three-year-old brother of Shannon
had no trouble taking charge in the
straight, and won more convincingly
than Heroic Sovereign’s fast-finishing
second might seem to indicate. Bern-
brook was really going very comfort-
ably at the ,end. •
Columnist, considering that he was
giving Heroic Sovereign (next in the
weights) a stone and Bembrook 31b.
more than that, ran an at least
promising fourth. He was still a
long way back at the turn and it
took the camera to decide between
him and Cragsidc. Even so, they were
three lengths from the winner, and
Columnist was favored with a rails-
mn up the long straight. Hence,
doubts as to whether Columnist is
quite the good horse he was must
remain suspended.
The win of Buonarroti Boy (W.
Fellows) in the 10-furlongs March
Handicap served mainly to emphasise
what Russia’s recent wins in Mel-
bourne pointed to —that the present
lot of older stayers generally are
rather on the poor side. The good
three-year-olds should have things
fairly easy in the distance events
coming up. Buonarroti Boy beat
Deed by four lengths, with Herbert
River third.
Ridden in his best style by J.
Thompson, the Ajax filly Portrait
defeated Mona’s Choice, Tivoli Star
and other two-year-old fillies in the
race-record time of 1.13-J for the six
furlongs, the similar event for colts
and geldings going to the Beau Port
gelding Beau Sandy, downing Field
Boy (heavily weighted), Artois and
others in slower time than Portrait’s.
Protect (E. Boon) landed the 9-
furlongs Welter from Faraway and
Gay Monarch (this former sprinter
should win one of these suburban
events over a mile or so before long).
The rest of the JRosehill events were
Mixed Stakes, Avail (B. Smith) and
“ Look , mum —no wings!"
The Duke (N. McGrowdie) winning
at seven furlongs, and Drastic (W.
Hughes) at 10 furlongs, this event one
for apprentices who hadn’t piloted
five winners— incidentally, Hughes
rode a very nice race.
* * * *
That competent assessor of per-
formances the A.J.Cr handicapper,
G. F. Wilson, promptly bumped
Filipino up 21b. for both Doncaster
and Sydney Cup after his Moonee
Valley win—specially significant be-
cause the five-year-old already had
a solid burden in each. His mission
is the Doncaster, and he now has
9.8 to carry in it —a good horse s
weight, but weight-carrying ability is
another of his attributes. Last horse
to win a Doncaster with 9.8 was Hall
Mark; he was not as sound a horse
as Filipino, nor as big. The chief
thing against Filipino appears to be
that he will be meeting such a good
colt as Bernbrook at so much more
than w.f.a.
* * ♦ *
That anything at all is always
likely to land the English Grand
National was demonstrated even
more definitely than usual in this
year’s running of the great steeple-
chase on Saturday. The winner,
Russian Hero, graduated from the
showring and started at 66 to 1;
Riomond and Royal Mount in the
places, with Cromwell, the hot-
enough favorite for such an event,
fourth. Cromwell started at sixes—
amazing odds for anyone to take
considering the gruelling nature of
the four-and-a-half miles and the
fences on the way. That enormous
sums were wagered on him at least
suggests that Britain still has its
share of hardy optimists. Less than
a dozen of the 43 starters saw it out.
* ♦ * *
The striking success of jockey W.
Cook in his early rides in England
might be confirmation of the impres-
sion brought back by one or two
who watched last season’s racing
there —that, with a few notable ex-
ceptions, the present riding standard
in England is not the best. In his
first seven rides Cook brought home
four winners.
* t * * *
For Rosehill (before accept-
ances) :
Parramatta Mixed Stakes: Grey
Boots, 1; lolanda, 2; Frescano, 3.
MacArthur Quality Handicap (two-
year-olds) : Achilles, 1; Huinmz, 2;
Vicereine, 3. Three- and Four-year-
old Quality Handicap: Comic Court,
1; Vagabond, 2; Snowstream, 3.
Rawson Stakes (in the absence of
Carbon Copy): De La Salle, 1;
Columnist, 2; Dynamite, 3. Railway
Quality Handicap: Heroic Sovereign,
1; Rio Fe, 2; Bold Duke, 3.
Rosehill Cup: Karachi, 1; Buonar-
roti Boy, 2; Transaction, 3. Welter:
Gay Monarch, 1; Haymarket, 2;
Monogram, 3,
* * * ♦
Sometimes they do come back. Len
Storey, of Myrtleford (Vic.), iss4.
He’s one of a family of noted riders
and until 25 years ago himself had
a pretty good record as an amateur.
Last year he took to riding in grass-
fed flutters again, has had 20 mounts
since, been on 11 winners and un-
placed but once. At Wodonga the
other Saturday he punched the out-
sider Abo home in the Corinthian.
Len was riding before the 1914-18
war and did a bit of saddle work m
that show with the old 4th Light
Horse. There was a Storey stud at
Murchison years ago, and from it
came Fleetstone, 1924 G.N. Steeple-
chase winner, Maltfield, Old Prime
and Con Naru, fair runners in their
time.
* * * *
The Australian National Football
Council has agreed to try Aussie
Rules with 16-a-side in three games
this season —the second S.A. v. W.A.
game in Perth, Carlton y. Essendon
in Brisbane, and Richmond v. W.A.
in Perth. Why it isn’t being tried
in Melbourne is a mystery; perhaps
the risk is too great. The idea is
that by dropping the ccntreman and
one ruckman, the game will be
opened up and become more spec-
tacular, though oldtimers will aver
that if properly played it’s good
enough now. Dropping the centre-
man will shock the long-held convic-
tion that he is the pivot of a team
and a match-winner. A reason given
is that grounds in Sydney and Bris-
bane are too small for the 18-a-side
game, but how the deuce dropping
two men is going to shorten kicks
or passing rushes from centre to for-
wards is another mystery. If two
have to go, the logical ones are the
centre wingmen, leaving the wing half-
forwards and their opposites to cover
the space. However, it’s but an ex-
periment and will probably never be
anything more.
♦ * ♦ ♦
The last and longest N.S.W. swim-
ming championship of the season —
1500 metres at the Bankstown (Syd-
ney) pool—found a new title-holder
in Ray Matheson (Freshwater), who
splashed home 4.ssec. ahead of W.
Brady (Bankstown), with B. Kella-
way (Australian 440yds. champion)
25.35ec. further away, Matheson’s
time, 22min. 27sec., was a long way
behind the Australian record (19min.
46.45ec.).
♦ * * *
Cambridge had another win to add
to its previous half-century after
“the Boat Race” on Saturday, and
certainly deserved it, having to take
the longest way round over the last
bit to overhaul Oxford —a remarkable
exhibition of grit and stamina. Syd-
ney’s Shore product Brian Lloyd was
in the Cambridge boat; G. C. Fisk,
from Geelong, was bow for Oxford,
♦ * ♦ •
“Leg-break”: Just to keep the
records straight—that aggregate of
1601 for 29 wickets knocked up by
England and Australia in 1930 (B.
16/3/’49) has been excelled in
England-Australia Tests on three oc-
casions:, 1753 at Adelaide (1920-21),
1619 at Melbourne (1924-25). 1611 at
Sydney (1924-25); for 40 wickets on
each occasion.
♦ * » ♦
“Mat”: For over fifty years
left-handers have done a great job
for Australia in Test cricket —Joe
Darling and Billy Bruce, Clem Hill
and Ransford, Bardsley and Jack
Gregory —but there had been a dearth
of such outstanding ones until Arthur
Morris and Neil Harvey made good
last year in England. With Bradman
now out of the running, a first-
wicket-down batsman has to be
found for the South African matches;
Morris is an opener, and probably
Harvey may be the choice.
* ♦ ♦ *
George Kapeen (9.12) dearly out-
pointed Bernie Hall (9.12 i) at Leich-
hardt, winning 10 rounds out of the
12. Hall was outfought up to round
four, when Kapeen went after a
knockout, but ran into Hall’s right,
which floored him for no count.
Hall won this round, and broke even
in the next. Continuous clinching
lost him all the ' others, which
Kapeen’s constant attack won, any-
way. And the ref. called it a drawl
« * * •
Jack Read looks Hassen over: —
Queensland aboriginal lightweight
Jack Hassen is rated by plenty of
experts as already in world class.
Vic Patrick was rated almost as
highly, but Patrick was an unortho-
dox boxer, and, because southpaws
are not so hard to beat if an oppo-
nent knows how to fight them, Hassen
looks better than Patrick did at the
same stage of his career.
Able to knock an opponent cold
with either hand, Hassen recently
outed Frenchman Pierre Montane in
10 rounds at Rushcutter Bay Sta-
dium, and that win has gained him
recognition as the world’s eighth-best
lightweight in the current American
“Ring’s” ratings.
Born at Cloncurry (Q.) in 1925,
Hassen was 17 when he won his first
ring fight by outpointing Era "‘Ham-
mond in a Charters Towers tourna-
ment. Winning two more tourney
contests on knockouts, Hassen per-
formed for a while with Jimmy Shar-
man’s travelling troupe before going
under the management of Townsville
promoter Tommy Nivens. Hassen’s
first fight under Nivens was for
the North Queensland welterweight
championship, which he won by
knocking out Barry Maxwell in round
eight.
Hassen’s next bouts took place in
Brisbane, where he defeated three
of Ern McQuillan’s boxers —Bobby
Fuller, Les Fuller and Joe Grant —
before McQuillan became his mana-
ger and brought him to Sydney,
where Hassen has done everything
right since.
He met George Kapeen in his
opening Sydney Stadium encounter
and outed him just before round two
ended. Hassen went on to stop Roy
Treasure, knock out Leo Heaney,
outpoint tough American negro
Tommy Stenhouse and then beat
Montane.
Standing sft.-10in. in his socks,
Hassen is very tall for a lightweight,
and he may soon develop into a
welter. Right now, however, Hassen
looks like the best lightweight Aus-
tralia has had for a long time. His
last opponent, Montane, is regarded
as one of the best boxgrs in the
world, and Hassen decisively out-
boxed Montane before he finished
him.


Your choice la CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
■weet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
A# #
r if mm
t Mm If
T4j^|
HliWillsll SUPER SNIPE
iiil
m
s*
■V-
mm
m
m
mm*
HOflO NOW /rmm*
HUMBER SUPER SNIPE ... PRECISION BUILT,
GRACEFUL, POWERFUL, ROOMY WITH A WIDER
TRACK AND AMPLE GROUND CLEARANCE FOR THE
ROUGHEST ROADS . . .
The first British car in its class to com-
bine these and many other advantages!
★ PRECISION BUILT Six-
cylinder power unit of 27 h.p.
develops over ,100 b.h.p.
★ LUGGAGE ACCOMMODA-
TION for six adults golf clubs
fit with ease.
★ SUPERB RIDING COMFORT
maintained by Evenkeel indepen-
dent front wheel springing, long
semi-elliptic rear springs, anti-
sway bar and hydraulic shock
absorbers.
★ ATTRACTIVE MODERN
INTERIOR STYLING deeply
cushioned seating upholstered in
leather throughout.
★ OUTSTANDING TOPGEAR
PERFORMANCE—S to 80 m.p.h.
★ SYNCHROMATIC finger - tip
Synchromesh 4-speed gearchange.
★ FULL SIX-SEATER ROOMI-
NESS AND COMFORT in gener-
ously dimensioned all steel safety
body.
DISTRIBUTORS:
NEW SOUTH WALES:
JOHN 3IcGRATH MOTORS
(PTY.), LTD.,
Head Office and Showrooms:
252 Castlereagrh Street, SYDNEY.
Tel., MA 6838.
VICTORIA:
NEAL’S MOTORS PTY., LTD.,
233 Exhibition Street,
MELBOURNE.
Tel., Central 7550. •
QUEENSLAND{
JOHN McGKATH MOTORS
(PTV.), LTD.,
324 Wickham Street, The Valley,
BRISBANE, Tel,, L 1817.
SOUTH- AUSTRALIA:
FUNDERS MOTORS, LTD.,
63 Currie Street, ADELAIDE.
Tel., Central €660.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA;
SKIPPER BAILEY MOTOR CO..
LTD.,
900 Hay Street, PERTH.
Tel., B 7174.
TASMANIA!
D. L. HOLLIS MOTORS TTY;,
LTD.,
Corner York and St. John Streets,
LAUNCESTON. Tel., 1676.
A PRODUCT 0 F
Qm tprsdfan taster Gift
&
of smoother,
* P MARFAK
Marfak it an
Exclusive
Colt ex Product
CHASSIS LUBRICATION
Have your car MARFAK serviced NOW
before the pre-holiday rush sets in. With
MARFAK service every grease-point on your
car is double-checked ... by chart, not by
chance. Marfak service costs only a few
shillings. Look for the MARFAK sign.
H
MARFAK
£Jn*
0
ci-m
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of verse “October Night”
by Norma Davis. —4598.
Wor.ds of poem “Wing Fat” by
“Alone.”—4597.
Words of verse in which a country
Eoliceman surveys a pile of wood in
is backyard and remarks: —
The first in jug will be the mug
WhoTl have to cut it all.
—4595.
Words of poem by P. Luftig be-
ginning:—
The parson rose from his downy bed at
the break of the Sabbath day,
He dressed himself in the chaste aesthetic
way.,
—4589.
To buy copy of The Bulletin Re-
citer. —4590.
To buy copies of The Classics in
Slang, Roughly Speaking, Fighting
Blood and The Telephone Girl by H.
C. Witwer.—4s93.
To buy copy of What Butterfly Is
That? by Dr. Waterhouse. —4596.
To buy new or second-hand copy
of Cena Trimalchonis by Petronius,
published by Oxford Univ. Press. —
4591.
Englishman, prospective immigrant
(27), married, two children, seeks
employment and accommodation
within 50 miles of Sydney. Farming
experience, good mechanical know-
ledge, can drive any type of vehicle.
Keen and adaptable. Reply direct
to Mr: G. W. Walton, 14 Famon-
road, Newcastle-on-Tyne, England.
To buy copy A Study of the Eyes
and of the Great Families by Henri
Gigot.—4s94.
To buy copy of The Metallurgy of
Gold by T. K. Rose, recent edition,
in reasonably good order. —4599.
Information Sought
Early history of Mauritius and
when and how did England gain pos-
session of the island?
Mauritius was known to Arab
navigators at an early date, probably
not later than the tenth century. It
was no doubt visited by Malays in
the fifteenth century, and was dis-
covered by the Portuguese between
1507 and 1512, but the Dutch were
the first settlers (1598). fn 1710 they
abandoned the island and it was
occupied by the French under the
name of He de France (1715). The
British occupied the island in 1810,
and it was formally ceded to Great
Britain by the Treaty of Paris of
1814.
♦ ♦ * *
How long has the Pyrmont Bridge
over Darling Harbor, Sydney, been
standing, and is it the original bridge
or a later one?
The old Pyrmont Bridge was built
by a private company in 1857, the
structure being purchased by the
Government in 1884. In 1891 com-
petitive designs were invited for a
new bridge on the south side of the
old structure, but it was not until
September 6, 1899, that the founda-
tion-stone of the existing bridge was
laid by E. W. O’Sullivan, Minister
for Public Works. The new bridge
was built by the Public Works Dept,
to the department’s own design,
which was selected by the Parliamen-
tary Standing Committee on Public
Works from about 26 schemes con-
sidered. The new bridge was opened
for traffic on June 28, 1902.
• * ♦ •
Is there any remedy for sticky oil-
skins ?.
Very little; caused by imperfect
drying between the coatings of dress-
ing. Wipe over with a cloth wrung
out of warm to hot soapy water,
wipe dry, sprinkle with talcum pow-
der and shake well. When not in
use, hang in dry, airy place on coat-
hanger, with plenty of space for air
circulation. Should never be folded.
* * * *
Weight and length of snapper and
its names at its various stages of
maturity ?
The terms "cockney,” “red bream,”
“squire,” “snapper” and “old-man
snapper” are used quite arbitrarily,
and the limits within which each
term applies have never been defined.
Most experienced fishermen would
probably refer to a fish up to about
5 inches as a “cockney”; between
5 and 10 inefles as a “red bream”;
between 10 inches and 14 inches as
a “squire”; and beyond that as a
“snapper.” The term “old-man
spapper” is usually applied to old
individuals which have developed a
pronounced hump ;
• * * *
A few particulars about the race-
horse Carbine?
Carbine (by Musket) was one of
the most popular horses that has
raced in Australia. He won the Mel-
bourne Cup in 1890 with lOst. 51b.—
the heaviest weight ever carried by a
Melbourne Cup winner—against the
record number of 39 starters, and in
3mm. 28isec., the fastest time then
recorded. During his racing career
Carbine started in 43 races, for 33
wins, six seconds, three thirds, and
stakes amounting to £29,626,
♦ • • *
What was the first recorded horse-
race for a stake run in Australia?
Regular horse-racing in Australia
was started in Sydney by officers of
the 73rd Regiment. They obtained
use of the northern portion of the
land now known as Hyde Park, and
fatigue parties from the regiment
formed the track, which was laid out
from Market-street to St. James’s-
road, then past St. Mary’s to Park-
street. Here, on October 15, 17 and
19, 1810, were held the first races for
stakes. For the opening event the
stake was a plate of 50 guineas, given
by subscribers to the Sydney Race-
course.
• * * Hi
Did two boxers named Sharkey
win the world’s heavyweight cham-
pionship from 1892 to 1898?
No. James J. Corbett won world’s
heavyweight championship from John
L. Sullivan on September 7, 1892;
Bob Fitzsimmons beat Corbett for
title on March 17, 1897, and James
J. Jeffries took it from Fitzsimmons
on June 9, 1899. The only Sharkey
to become world’s heavyweight cham-
pion was Jack Sharkey, who out-
pointed Max Schmeling on June 21,
1932. This Sharkey (a Lithuanian-
American whose real name was John
Coccoskey) lost title to Primo Camera
on June 29, 1933.
Brief Answers.
C.O’L.: (1) Cannot trace artist nor
the location of the subject of his pic-
ture. (2) Write Anthony Hordern
and Sons, George-street, and Swain
and Cos., 123 Pitt-street—both Syd-
ney. .. .J.F.N.: Jack Moses wrote
the poem “Nine Miles from Gun-
dagai.” It appears in his book
Beyond the City Gates. An earlier
poem, “Five Miles from Gundagai,”
was written by a now-unknown writer
who signed his work “Matchbox.”
....G.M.R.: He has two adopted
children—a son and a daughter.;..
R.E.J.F.: Cannot trace word in any
list of aboriginal place-names....
J.M.: Chemicals are apt to be
dangerous in unskilled hands. Com-
plete and perfect sterilisation by heat
of fruit and containers should ensure
long preservation. Write to the Dept,
of Agriculture, Sydney, for a leaflet
on home-canning and pulping
A.I.S Prepared dressings are avail-
able at most paint stores. A simple
home-treatment is to lay the garments
out on a table, inside-out, and rub
all over with a block of paraffin-wax.
Another method is: Put in a bucket
of soft water ilb. each sugar-of-lead
and powdered alum. Stir at intervals
hntil It becomes clear, then pour otf
into another bucket and place the
garment therein. Leave for 24 hours,
then hang put to dry without wring-
ing. . ~D.W.: Gene Tunney out-
pointed Jack Dempsey in 10 rounds,
and won world’s heavyweight cham-
pionship from him at Pniladelphia
(U.S.A.) on September 23, 1926. No-
body beat Tunney for this title, and
he retired as heavyweight champion
of the world after knocking out New
Zealander Tom Heeney (11 rounds)
in 1928 C.D.C.: Write the Aus-
tralian Wool Board, Royal Insurance
Bldgs., 416 Collins-street, Melbourne.
... .W.J.R.: Reference to the subject
will be found in article “Ruined
City” by Keith D. Young in the
“A.B.C. Weekly" for February 26,
1949, and in paragraph by “Wingella”
in The Bulletin of March 29, 1944.
~. .C.M.S.: Copies of the pamphlet
“Socialisation in Ten Years” by
M. H. Ellis can be obtained free
from The Bulletin, 252 George-
street, Sydney W.R.8.: Domini-
can Pioneers in New South Wales by
Sister M. Assumpta O’Hanlon, pub-
lished by Australasian Publishing Cos.,
Sydney; price 16s C.G.: (1 ) Hall
Marks and Date Letters by Arthur
Tremayne; price 3s. Id. from Angus
and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney. (2) The crown is the
hall-mark of Sheffield and the symbol
would refer to the date H.H.D.:
Cabarita, by the water; Collymongle,
very long lagoon; Dooraban,
Hawkesbury River; Elanora, home
by the sea; llla-Langi, camp on a
hill; Murrawolga, sheet of deep
water; Woonah, a resting-place;
Yuruga, extensive view. For further
names, consult list compiled by W.
W. Thorpe, Ethnologist, Australian
Museum, Sydney A.J.S.: Infor-
mation no.t available locally. Write
Registrar, University of Oxford....
W.R.M.: Write C. G. Smart, Sec-
retary, N.S.W. Bowling Assoc., 77
Elizabethrstreet, Sydney..., P. A.:
Lewis Berger and Sons, Rhodes
(N,S,W.), will suggest a color-scheme
for the exterior of your home.


FOR ALL EMERGENCIES
*
in
mk
m
IN THE
HANDY RED TIN
In the home, or when on holidays, never
be without Elastoplast, the comfortable
elastic dressing that stretches with your
skin. It is medicated for perfect protection,
and is flesh-coloured and inconspicuous.
Various sizes and shapes of dressing all
in the one tin. At chemists everywhere.
cot*
WOUNDS
BLISTERS
A **Aslo Ns
Elastoplast
TRADE MARK
THE COMFORTABLE E-L-AS-T-l-C
FIRST AID DRESSINGS
A product of T. J. Smith & Ntphtw Ltd.. Hull. England.
E4/129
WITH THE SKIN
HANDY
HINTS
for the
FARM
A
Thousand Ways
of
Improving Yields
and
Reducing Costs
Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit and
Vegetables, the Apiary, and General Farm Activities.
Price
One Shilling
Published by
The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.
252 George Street, Sydney.
Missing Friend.
JOHN THOMAS O’FLAHERTY (son of
Martin O’Plaherty and Mary O’Flaherty,
bom Butler).—WOULD JOHN THOMAS
O’FLAHERTY, or any person knowing
his whereabouts, or able to give any in-
formation concerning him, his wife or
children, if any, kindly communicate with
THE PUBLIC TRUSTEE, Room 204, 19
O’Connell Street, Sydney, N.S.W. Re
Estate of Mary Catherine O’Flaherty, de-
ceased.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO KENNETH LLOYD CUPITT formerly
of Glen Davis near Lithgow.—TAKE
NOTICE that THELMA MAY CUPITT has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 8039 of
1948 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards and will ask the Court to exer-
cise its discretion in her favour under
the Matrimonial Causes Act Section ,19
(2) (a) If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 6th June 1949 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from MESSRS.
T. G. D. MARSHALL, LANDERS &
GIBLIN, Solicitors, 9 Martin Place, Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) J.' DOUGHAN, Acting Regis-
trar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM EDWIN BLACK C/o Mrs.
E. Black 1 No. 7 Colliery Road Lithgow.
—TAKE NOTICE that IRENE DOROTHY
MAY BLACK has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4257 of 1948 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter ap appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 30th May
1949 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from COLLINS & POL-
LACK, Post Office Chambers, Victoria
Street, Grafton, or from their Sydney
Agents, SMITHERS, WARREN & LYONS,
Solicitors, 169 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar
in Divorce.
Public Notices.
I, BERTA MEYER, of German nation-
ality, born at Hattendorf, Germany, and
resident nine years in Australia, now re-
siding at 7 Marion Avenue, Rose Bay,
Sydney, intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion under the Nationality and .Citizenship
Act, 1948.
I, OLGA JOHANNA FATHAL, of Estho-
nian nationality, bom in Tallinn, Es-
thonia, and resident in Australia for 22
years, now residing at Chester Road,
Inglebum, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BABBEBE DISTBIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 25W), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
m
m&
B
■
3 MILLION
POLICYHOLDERS
HELP PROVIDE
THEim YOUR POLICY
You, and three million other
Australians, pay premiums so
that one day you or your family
will benefit by the sum for which
you are assured. But your pre-
miums do more than this. They
help provide the “plus” in your
policy . . . the added bonuses.
Your premiums, invested in industrial and
government securities, earn dividends which
add these benefits to your policy, and help keep
the cost of life assurance down (incidentally the
m
management cost of life
assurance is less in Aus-
tralia than anywhere else).
At the same time your
savings work for the good
of the whole community.
THREE MILLION POLICYHOLDERS
SEVEN AND A HALF MILLION AUSTRALIANS
MATERIALLY BENEFIT THROUGH
LIFE ASSURANCE
ISSUED BY THE LEADING LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES IN AUSTRALIA
3/229 -
HOMETOWN
DAVID ROWBOTHAM
I HAVE no love, but a sober
affection, for my hometown.
It consists in the main of
those small factories and
offices where the youth full of
ambition becomes a hand or a
clerk and fifty years later retires
as a senior hand or a senior
clerk.
There are the two theatres,
one stuffy, the other windy, and
at the top of the main street
opposite the Commonwealth
Bank stands the Town Hall with
its musty library hung with
photographs of deceased mayors
whose noses are, no doubt, held
so in the air because of the
sneezy atmosphere of the place.
The town is very proud of its
parks, where, on Sundays, the
boys congregate at the basket-
ball fields to watch the girls
tumble and the girls congregate
at the football fields to watch
the boys tumble. It is also
very proud of its Labor Day and
St. Patrick’s Day processions.
At times the town seems
almost senile with all its old
shops and old houses, with its
drab familiar landmarks and
yellow signs and taxis, and it
has all the regular smells, in-
cluding the one from the
tannery. But what makes it most
like any other town in the
world is that its most sustained
interest lies in gossip.
THE Rowies have lived—
unambitiously —in Home-
town ever since the first general
store opened, when my great-
grandfather, wearing a cap that
made him look like a Cockney
pickpocket, hung up his pots
and pans in the window and
arranged those despised bar-
soaps in awkward tiers beneath.
He sold anything from meat-
pies to umbrellas; but I’m told
that business in pies stopped
with incriminating suddenness
the day one of the ladies who
“counted” in the district broke
her only sound tooth on a piece
of metal mixed up with the
contents.
Hometown once boasted a
peer and a semi-millionaire.
Amid sorrow and scandal, all
capably expressed in the
Hometown “News,” we lost them
both in the one catastrophic
week. The peer was consigned
by train to be buried in' his
hometown; the semi-millionaire,
in an atmosphere of respectful
deep hurt, was laid to rest in
an unpretentious corner of the
cemetery with all that he pos-
sessed-debts. As the result of
his “passing away,” several
business houses, some trades-
men and the proprietor of the
Grande Hotel incurred dead
losses, while the citizens, lessen-
ing the blow to their prestige
at having admitted an impostor
into their bosoms, said that at
any rate he always looked like
a semi-millionaire.
“Avon,” the mysterious
Hometown poet whom every-
one knows to be Mrs. Hardley-
Prune, wrote forty lines in
heroic couplet entitled “The
Peer and the Pauper” about the
events and dispatched them with
artistic fervor in time to make
the Saturday-morning edition of
the “News,” only to find to her
chagrin that she had been
crowded out of Saturday’s pages
into Monday’s by the largeness
of the market reports. At the
next meeting of the Cultural
Group she made this offence the
subject of a withering address
on the indifference of the world
to the Arts. All the ladies —
ladies only comprise the Group
—applauded, I believe, very
manfully.
There are not, by way of
warning, any good barbers in
town ; but their sincerity cannot
be doubted. It’s no use going
into Pat Tooley’s shop, for in-
stance, and asking for a “light
trim, not too high back and
sides.” Although Pat will, very
sincerely, listen to what you say,
he cannot—in all sincerity—
change the style of “cut” which
he gives to everybody. He may
turn you out well informed
about current topics or the in-
side news of the turf; but your
head, particularly if it had any
hair on it before you went in,
will be feeling cold and naked
as if it had been peeled.
IF ever you come to Home-
town, call in at Rowie’s
General Store. You are bound
to be persuaded to buy some-
thing that you want, for my
father, having, like myself, been
born in the store behind that
door to the left as you enter,
has business in his blood. He
has often jokingly asserted that
his first talk was sales-talk.
I shall not be home. The
store will not support two now,
so I work in the city, where, be-
ing the most ambitious among
four generations of Rowies, I
hope soon to be promoted from
Petty Cash to Legers. The leger-
keeper has been very ill of late.


WE watch the LBS
YOU get the £SD
Fat stock can lose pounds of valuable condition if badly handled in the sale-
yards, so make sure your stock keeps that “fresh from the paddock” bloom,
by selling through A.M.L.&F. Experienced droving, drafting and penning have
always earned A.M.L.&F. the praise of seller and buyer alike.
Carefully maintained condition and astute auctioneering by the “A.M.L.&F.
man” ensure top market value for your stock, in the paddock, at Homebusb,
or any other yard.
85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
M.biuumiih, muiiu «
Inc. in England in 186 S.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 20.22
The Greatest Show
of them all
ROYAL
EASTER SHOW
9th to 19th April, 1949
9 DAYS AND 7 NIGHTS
Don’t miss the big Ring attraction— Torchlight
Tattoo. 2500 troops in the Wheel of Empire —“lt
Will Always Revolve.” Sat. 9th, Tues. 12th,
Wed. 13th at 8.30 p.m.
For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
m
!l If
in m
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLY BATES
Single Booms—
From 8/- per night
Double Booms —
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
“METRO? OLE:'
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 fines)
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRACOS."
Branding Cattle.
“K.W.R.”: Damage done to
hides by faulty branding methods
and by branding on valuable
parts of the hide is not fully
appreciated. A common prac-
tice is to brand high up on the
rump, because it offers a good
branding surface and can be
seen easily from the horse or
stockyard rail. Yet from the
tanner’s pe nt of view it damages
the most valuable portion of the
hide. Branding on back or loin
also causes considerable loss.
Whatever method is adopted,
best results cannot be obtained
unless irons are properly heated
and the correct touch applied
by the brander. The skin should
never be burnt through. Deep
branding is cruel, unnecessary,
and will reduce hide values. If
the skin surface is merely
scorched, the brand usually
peels off and remains indistinct.
A well-heated, good-shaped iron
should be lightly and evenly
applied, without undue pressure,
for about one second.
It is unwise to heat brands
in a forge where they are likely
to become too hot, with their
branding - surface consequently
burnt and roughened. Irons
must be used when really hot,
otherwise time is wasted, the
animal caused unnecessary pain,
and a faulty brand results.
Where possible, symbols, letters
and numerals should be incor-
porated in one brand. This
saves time and gives better re-
sults than when two or more
irons are used.
Cattle should not be branded
when skin and hair are wet with
rain or sweat, or when the hide
is twitching or contracting.
Clipping off hair and smearing
the brand area with fat are re-
commended by some stockmen
prqyided the operator knows his
job. If he is inexperienced, re-
sults may be disastrous. The
face of the iron must be kept
free of hair by rubbing it on the
ground after each branding.
Downs Soil Loss.
“Agric”: Research officers of
Queensland Department of
Agriculture are of opinion that
up to 10 tons of soil per acre, on
fallow land, is being'washed out
by summer storms on the
Darling Downs this year. Actual
traced losses of half an inch of
top soil in many places would
give this estimated loss of 10
tons per acre, but the depart-
ment is designing its own soil-
rate measuring equipment for re-
search work at Kairi State Farm
(N.Q.) and the Hermitage State
Farm, Warwick.
Contour-banks have been laid
for the tracing of losses from
various farming practices. Vul-
nerability of soils lacking vege-
tative cover during heavy
summer storms was demon-
strated during soil-conservation
research work at Wag g a
(N.S.W.). From early in De-
cember, 1947, to late February,
1948, when severe storms
occurred, more than 10 tons of
soil per acre of fallow land was
lost.
The problem is not being
tackled with anything like the
vigor which its seriousness de-
mands. The usual excuse is that
trained officers are not avail-
able, but what action is any
Government taking to train
them? The same applies to the
training of animal-husbandry
officers, Sydney University has
to cater for students from not
only its own State, but also New
Zealand and Queensland wishing
to study veterinary science, but
would-be so i 1-conservationists
and animal-husbandry officers
have to pick up what specialist
knowledge they can while taking
the agricultural-science course.
Research work in connection
with all our primary-production
problems is of a very haphazard
nature so far as the States are
concerned, but the C.S.I.R. is
doing good work in all produc-
tion problems. Unless, however,
the knowledge gained by C.S.I.R.
staff is passed on promptly to
the producers concerned the
value of that knowledge is lost
to production.
The Farmer’s Side.
“Bill C.”: Give up using fer-
tilisers and the first result would
be that farmers would have to
work harder. In the cane areas,
for instance, the young cane is
worked until well into the
summer. The fertiliser is then
applied, and the cane jumps
ahead, beating any weeds
amongst it. The farmer needn’t
work it any more.
Where fertiliser is not used,
the cane makes no such pro-
gress, It has to be worked until
the wet season, and even then
it may be backward enough to
be spoiled by weeds. An un-
fertilised crop almost never
yields as heavily as a fertilised
one.
The cane plainly shows its
liking for fertiliser. Within a
few days it turns a rich, dark
green. Unfertilised cane may
always be picked out by its
characteristic yellowish - green
appearance, and by its growth,
which slows up increasingly as
it develops.
It is the same with other crops
1 grow. Failure to use fertiliser
of the right kind means slowed
growth, increased work for me
and at the end a low yield. I
like to grow green-manuring
crops, and to spread the horse-
manure from the stable over the
farm paddocks. Both do good,
I know. But I heard somewhere
that 30 tons of horse-manure is
only equal in manurial value to
one ton of sulphate of ammonia,
and that horse-manure only acts
very slowly. The last part is
true, anyway.
More Rice Wanted.
“Dick Turpin”: The chair-
man of Associated Ricemillers
is reported to have said in Lon-
don that he would like to see
Australian rice production built
up to 300,000 tons per year.
Present annual production is
about 35,000 tons, the bulk
"Cut it out, Strawb—youll be makin' the wife jealous !”
grown on the N.S.W. Murrum-
bidgee Irrigation Area.
The snag to more production
is water. Within recent years
rice-growing has been extended
to Tullakool and Wakool, where
about 6000 acres are now sown.
On the M.I.A. there is no room
for expansion, and no great in-
crease in Australian production
seems likely until the Snowy and
other irrigation schemes are in
operation. Australian produc-
tion methods are amongst the
most efficient in the world, and
Australian rice compares very
favorably with the American
product for both quality and
yield.
As in Britain, rice has been
absent from Australian tables
for some years, and there is an
immediate market at home for
any additional crops that can be
sown, quite apart from the un-
satisfied overseas demand. Main
reason for the world shortage
is the slowness of Burma, Indo-
China and Siam to return to full
pre-war production. Before the
war these three countries ex-
ported 6,500,000 tons of rice per
year; anticipated export this
year is less than half that.
Most Australian rice goes to
New Guinea and Pacific islands ;
only Asiatics and certain classes
of invalids can obtain it in Aus-
tralia, and then only on special
permit. The crop was originally
introduced into N.S.W. to give
stability to large irrigation farms
on the M.I.A. where dairying
and wheatgrowing were uneco-
nomical. Before the war it was
necessary for the Government to
protect rice-growing; like the
sugar industry, it could not com-
pete with the product of cheap-
labor countries.
In Queensland there is a desire
to grow rice on irrigable coun-
try, but so far those interested
haven’t been able to get the
necessary permits.
Self-feeder for Pigs.
“Nubis”: An iron tyre (such
as a binder-wheel tyre) will serve
as the base. Radius of tyre
should be at least 9in‘. greater
than that of a 44gal. drum.
Fill with concrete to a depth of
Sin. Place a cone in the centre
of it (can be made of cement
or an old plough disk will do).
Then cut both ends from a
44gal. drum. Attach to one end
four L-shaped pieces of iron to
serve as legs. These should
raise the drum l|in. from the
concrete base. Stand drum over
the cone. Three distance pieces
are required to keep it central.
Ten-inch bolts horizontally
through the top of the tyre will
be sufficient. In addition, a lid
is desirable. For mobility,
mount it on a wooden platform
(6ft. x 6ft.) built as a sledge.
This also prevents mud from
entering the feeder.
Belt-dressing.
“R.H.G.”: Well-meaning sug-
gestions for making up belt-
dressing mixtures with various
strange ingredients should all be
taken as applying only to an
emergency. Ready-made pre-
parations marketed in handy
containers are far better. They
put a “face”, on the belt, help
to preserve it (buy correct dress-
ing for leather or compo belts)
and do not form the annoying
lumps that all home-grown mix-
tures never fail to do, especially
the ghastly practice of melting
down scrap rubber.
Generally speaking, however,
if undue trouble is experienced
with belt-slip, the following
things are wrong: (1) Belt too
loose; (2) belt not wide enough
or heavy enough to transmit the
required horsepower at the
necessary revs, (this is almost
invariably the seat of the
trouble); (3) drive-centres too
short (pulleys too close to-
gether) ; (4) direction of pull
wrong—pull should come on the
underside, so that the top of
the belt flops down and helps
to increase “wrap” on pulleys;
(5) bad alignment of pulleys.
A wrapping pulley is often of
great advantage—this is merely
a free pulley laid across the top
of the belt by means of an arm,
fairly close to the driven pulley,
so that its weight bears down on
the belt and makes it wrap closer
around the driven pulley. In-
creased wrap—as with turns of
rope around a bollard—increases
friction to an enormous extent.
Falling Grapefruit.
“Myrrhee”; In tests by Vic.
Department of Agriculture, a
dilute spray of the hormone
weedkiller 2,4-D reduced the
winter drop of grapefruit last
year by as much as 90 per cent.
The spray contains as little as
22 parts per million of the
chemical and isn’t costly.
Materials for a 100-gallon vat
used in the tests cost 3s. (and
this included the cost of one
pint of summer white oil used
as a spreader and sticker). The
department fqund late May the
best time to spray; autumn
growth had ceased by then.
To be thoroughly effective the
spray has to be applied to wet
the calyx of each fruit.
Absorbed at this point the
chemical prevents one of the
biggest causes of fruit-drop-
formation of the corky layer
between calyx and fruit. The
department is definite in its
claim that the spray will hold
the fruit on the trees over the
critical winter period, hut issues
a warning: Stick to the correct
strength, otherwise serious dis-
tortion of young leaves and
shoots can occur. After use,
thoroughly flush out the spray
pump with clean water.
Spanners and Wrenches.
“Radian”: Two open-ended
adjustable spanners, of the
“Crescent”-type—one 15in. and
one Bin. —will turn most nuts
on farm implements and earn
their keep in any tool-kit. Un-
fortunately this type of spanner
has disadvantages apart from
cost —under heavy strain it will
give slightly, thus tending to
tear corners off nuts; also it is
too bulky to reach nuts where
side space is limited. However,
apart from all that it is a good
universal tool and with reason-
able treatment will give years of
service.
Other spanners will depend on
the machines in use and the
work to be done, whether only
running repairs, or major over-
hauls are to be covered. The
Australian farmer is unfortu-
nate in that he may own an
American tractor, a British truck
and small engines and pumps,
etc., of local manufacture. Thus
he will require spanners to cover
both British and American nut
sizes. With minor exceptions,
Australian manufacturers use
British standards in bolts and
nuts; but American firms who
manufacture trucks and tractors,
both here and in England, mostly
use their own sizes, which tends


nONfIIDSON-lIPPITT
ENGINES
Ss^
(oniidence.
is me sey/vore of koh/übson
-TIPPETT MEM PHD METHODS/
• Confidence Is the keynote of Bonaldson-Tippett men
and methods. It has its beginning when special steels,
laboratory-tested, lay the foundation for these superior
engines. It carries on through every part and process
of manufacture to the point where it can truly be said
that Confidence has created power units of unex-
celled dependability.
Small wonder, then, that Bonaldson-Tippett Engines
command the Confidence of users. Their inherent quality
is such that users rely upon them implicitly to deliver
the high degree of satisfaction which that Confidence
Implies*
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Showrooms: 628 Bourke St., Mel-
bourne. V./S.IF. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., 42
Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
RONALDSON -Ti PPETT
IDEAL FOR LOW PRESSURE OR
TANK WATERING SYSTEMS
SOAKS THE SOI L.
"o££PS£EP"mm CANVAS HOSE!
jcs/u, wtsoißctj
m
m
a
k
%
©
ssv
(attachioj&rxlerlhose.
yw OME GARDEN
IRRIGATION
| ? Z 4 FT. LENGTH'ROT
-PROOF POROUS HOSE WITH
FITTINGS. screws INTO
OAROEM HOSE. CAN BE
PLACED ANYWHERE. WATER
5W£/*S Vr6« HOSE &
V WATERS, FROM GRODNO
')
DOWN AND. SOAKS DEEP.
/vo WASre..
T . -7
MepeYsrio spray. Meal for
hot weather watering, prevents
Jeaf scorch. price; 20 -far
PI AIL QfipZRS ORLY. .
SAVES WATER
SCOTT-BALL PRODUCTS
93 NEW STREET, MIDDLE BRIGHTON, VIC.
Invitation!
You are cordially invited
to visit
STAND 4 7
Machinery Avenue
R. A. Si
and see the
FAMOUS
w
PRODUCTS
ŵ
BALL BEARING
SHEARING MACHINERY
“M.V ” PORTABLE AND
SEMI-PORTABLE PLANTS
ẁ
“M.V.” HANDPIECE
“M.V” SHEEP JETTERS
AND FIRE FIGHTING PLANTS
EE
ẃ
“M.V.” DIESEL ENGINES
"M.V.” PETROL AND ,
PETROL-KEROSENE ENGINES
ẅ
w
"M.V.” ELECTRIC HOME
LIGHTING PLANTS
“M-V." SPRAY IRRIGATION
ŵ
m
MILKING MACHINES
"M.V.” ORCHARD SPRAY i
PLANTS
ẁ
ẃ
"M.V.” WARP PROOF
SAW BENCHES
“MV.” PEST ARRESTOR
w
We are N.S.W. distributors for
ELECTROLUX
Kerosene-operated
REFRIGERATORS
ẅ
Sole Australian agents for
HAWKINS ELECTRICAL
AMENITIES
made by
HAWKINS of LONDON
Other Lines Include:
Centrifugal Pumps, Sterilizers, Roller Spray Pump, Dandy Pumper,
Mules Operation Cradle, Wunman Drum Cradle, “One Man”
• Power Chain Saw, One-cow Bucket Type Milking Plant,
Andersol X X Detergent.
ŵ
TELEGRAMS: “VIRTUE,” SYDNEY. TELEPHONE: FFI2OI.
Manufacturer's, Engineers and Machinery Merchants
EPSOM ROAD. ROSEBERY. N.S.W.
and at
MAGELLAN STREET, LISMORE, N.S.W.
MOFFAT-VIRTUE (Q’LAND) PTY., LTD.
295 Wickham Street, Brisbane
Margaret Street, Towoomba, Qld.
to much confusion and duplica-
tion in tools generally.
For normal running repairs
it will usually be necessary to
have ordinary open-ended span-
ners covering the 3-16 in. to fin.
range in British and from fin. to
fin. in American sizes.
Each range can be covered
in the sizes mentioned, by four
double-ended spanners. Main
disadvantage is that when a nut
is being turned, an additional
spanner is usually required to
hold the head of the bolt.
Usually the small “Crescent”
will suffice; but if it won’t a
duplicate-size set spanner is
necessary, which means that four
spanners to each range are
rarely sufficient. In this regard
the sizes most involved are
5-16 in., fin. and fin. in
British and fin., 9-16 in. and
fin. in American standards.
For major repairs a good set
of socket spanners is essential,
particularly for cylinder-head
studs, bearing nuts and trans-
mission assemblies. Double-
ended ring spanners of the multi-
hex type are also very useful,
but not an absolute necessity.
At least one good pipe wrench
will be necessary, A 24in.
wrench will handle up to 2in.
water pipe and is easily the most
convenient.
Colic.
“Rooster”: Generally the
term colic is given to any dis-
order in horses which has the
noticeable symptom of abdomi-
nal pain. Look for the cause.
Maybe it’s not what you think,
and wrong treatment may result
in further suffering. In any
case, the real cause must be
found, it being essential to re-
move it as a first step towards
recovery.
Preventive measures are
always better than cures. Don’t
overfeed horses during rest
periods ; it merely overloads the
digestive system. If abrupt
changes of diet disagree with
the horse, particularly when
switching from grass to hand
feed, try doing it gradually.
Always water before feeding
when work is finished, and never
work them heavily on a full
stomach. Above all, examine
the teeth periodically. Bad teeth
impair the digestion, leading to
all sorts of stomach disorders.
Keep a close watch on poisonous
weeds.
Spasmodic colic, in which a
portion of the bowel contracts,
is invariably brought about by
fermented, mouldy, or imper-
fectly chewed foods. Breathing
becomes rapid and the animal
sweats profusely. This uncom-
fortable feeling is apparent when
the horse gets up and down
frequently, stretching and strain-
ing as if trying to micturate.
Two drenches should be given
when these symptoms occur, with
about an hour between them.
The first is a neutraliser; Raw
linseed-oil, one pint; oif of tur-
pentine 20z.; aromatic spirits
of ammonia, 20z.; tincture of
nux vomica, approx. foz. The
second drench is more or less
corrective: Aromatic spirits of
ammonia, 20z.; sweet spirits of
nitre, loz.; water, f pint. Keep
'the animal comfortable and
warm.
Impaction colic results from
overeating. Distention of the
lower bowel is evident, and the
horse goes down in great pain,
rolling from side to side. Drench
with raw linseed-oil (one to If
pints) and 2oz. of oil of tur-'
pentine, and give frequent
enemas of warm, soapy water.
He Salted Them.
“Pongo”: Don’t know about
the virtues of the bark-hacking
methods of inducing barren
fruit-trees to bear (B. 26/1/’49),
but will swear by the potency
of plain Epsom salts for that
purpose. Some years ago a
friend, admiring two lemon-trees
in my garden, was surprised
when I told him they had never
fruit. “That’s easily
fixed. Got any Epsom salts?”
The salts were forthcoming,
and, grabbing a spade, he first,
turned over the soil to a dis-
tance of 6ft. from the trees.
Then, sprinkling the salts on the
soil, he turned it in again. Next
year’s lemon crops were heavy,
and the trees have borne well
ever since.
Hints for the Farm.
“Nubis”: Don’t swerve
through broken glass; if you
can’t avoid it, drive straight
through, missing the larger
pieces. Don’t brake. Let the
car roll over it. It’s the sawing
action of the steering wheels and
the grinding action of the brak-
ing wheels that does the damage.
“M.”: Collar-rot in citrus is
curable if the trunk hasn’t been
completely girdled. Draw the
soil away from the butt, making
sure that none of it extends
above the stock-scion union, and
scrape the earth away from the
larger surface roots near the
trunk. Cut away all dead tissue
and paint the area with a Bor-
deaux paste made from 4oz.
of crushed bluestone dissolved
in a pint of water and mixed
with Boz. of water-slaked lime.
“K.T.”: Fowls need green
feed more so in the summer than
at any other time. Besides its
action on the digestive organs
and the effect on egg production,
green feed prevents the system
from getting run down through
excessive heat. It is also a blood
cooler. Green feed is best fed
in a chaffed condition during the
hot part of the day.
“Spooks”: Many water-bags
are scrapped that could last
longer. Recently the C.S.I.R.
reported that a chemical known
as “spirit soluble shirlan” was
effective in destroying the little
black spots that come as a pre-
lude to bag-rotting. This in no
way affects the water. Another
way for prolonging the life of a
bag is by boiling the new bag in
a pan containing washing-soda
prior to using, and then applying
the solution.
“Billjim”: Washable and
cheap overalls for use in the
dairy can be made from a jute
bag. Unpick the seams and
make an apron with the centre
opening after the style of a
divided skirt. Attach a band at
the top to fasten around the
waist and hem sides and centre
opening to prevent fraying. Sew
on tapes so that overalls can be
fastened at thigh, knee and
ankle.
“Ben Acre”: Instruments that
would be injured by rust, if acci-
dentally wetted, can be dried
quickly if rinsed in methylated
spirits and let stand. Anything
of the nature of a watch would
probably need'cleaning and oil-
ing afterwards.
“Myrr”: As a balanced ration
for the pig self-feeder, add to
each bag (approximately 1401 b.)
of cereal mejds 51b. of meat-
meal for pigs nearing slaughter-
ing weight and fat, or up to
201 b. if green feed is scarce and
the pigs are young and grow-
ing ; 101 b. of lucerne or clover
chaff; 31b. of ground limestone
and 11b. of salt (fine).
“K.T.”: Sweet potatoes
should be harvested before the
beginning of heavy frosts. Care
should be taken, of course, not
to bruise the roots. Maturity
is when the flesh does not dis-
color on cutting the end off a
root. '


Il Hill Solve Yoor Hooey Worries
r
A confidential service
Is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed.
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills* come in
and talk it over.
RURAL BANK
Head Office! Martin Placet Sydney*
SctA/4* XV-VUjJofr
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. That's -why a Globlte
costs less In the long run.
0 Made by
FORD BHERINGTON LTD.
IF YOU’RE A SAVER^
4 1
L " „.that't the sure my to receive
maximum rewards for you thrift end /brefiyht
The typical, good Australian looks ahead
and realises that the future will bring
him certain obligations and responsi-
bilities. To meet them he’ll need money.
The only sure way to accumulate these
necessary funds is: first, by saving and
second, by investing those savings safely
and profitably.
If you have already realised the need
for saving, you have probably already
accumulated useful funds. The decision
to make now is to invest this money
wisely.
SAFE, PROFITABLE
INVESTMENT
The best place for your savings is the
Seventh Security Loan.
Invested in the Seventh Security Loan,
your money will earn good interest year
in, year out, without interruption. It
will be absolutely safe—repayment in
full is guaranteed by the Commonwealth.
And, should you need cash in an
emergency, your securities will be
readily negotiable.
The full amount sought In the Seventh
Security Loan is required to pay for
Repatriation and Rehabilitation and for
Public Works and Services of the
Commonwealth and States and, as may
be necessary, for the redemption of
unconverted securities of maturing Loans.
INVESTMENT IS EASY
Investment may be for cither fourteen
years or three years. The Fourteen
Year Securities pay 34% per annum and
Bonds are available in denominations of
£lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO, and
Inscribed Stock for a minimum of £lOO
or multiples of £lO in excess of £lOO.
The Three Year Securities pay 2% per
annum and are available for a minimum
subscription of £l,OOO and multiples
thereof.
Invest your savings today in the Seventh
Security Loan through any Bank,
Savings Bank, Money Order Post Office
or Stockbroker.
Saue ibr Security, .invest in ifie
SEVENTH SECURITY LOAN
Ho^"SSss, ’ e ””
If you hold Bonds or Inscribed Stock in
any of Ac issues listed on the right, con-
vert your holdings into the Seventh
Security Loan immediately and you will
prevent any interruption to the income
you receive from your investment.
The following three issues of Common-
wealth Bonds and Inscribed Stock will
mature on April 15, 1949:-
*x.o/ n “Victory” Bond* an< * ln» cr **>® c *
ItA ZlTin 1944 (two issues).
(Maturity Date of
Commonwealth* Treasurer has •*««*£
HU option to redeem these securities
on April 15, 1949).
1 2% “Security” Bomisand Inscribe
1 Stock issued in April, 1946.
Authorised by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth,
?fys,ti».9»
-
mam
m&m
mm
mmmm
Order your Roofing
FOR YOUR NEW HOME, NOW
Decide to use WUNDERLICH METAL TILE for
roofing your new home . . . place your order
now and be assured of supplies when you build,
Wunderlich Metal Tile is stamped from 24-gauge
Zincanneal and is finished an attractive Russet-
Red.
Available in sheets s’l Oi" x (16 tiles to
sheet) together with Ridge Capping, Screws,
Washers, etc,
'Phone MX 2411, write Box 474, G.P.0., Sydney, or
call at our Baptist Street, Redfern, Office for
prices, illustrated leaflet and fixing details.
j.
ejaL tile roofing
.STAMPED AND STOVE ENAMELLED ZINCANNEAL
PRODUCT OF THE METAL-WORKING DIVISION
OF WUNDERLICH LIMITED
CHINA TO PERU
Maoriland Manpower
New Zealand workers have
averaged a shade over 60 p.c. of
the national income in the war
and post-war decade of expan-
sion, with their total earnings
lifted from £ll3 million to £222
million in the nine years ended
March, 1948, against £179 mil-
lion and £367 million for all
Maorilanders; but these figures
don’t tell the whole story. What
they leave out is that State pay-
rolls have run to seed, that Gov-
ernment staffs now outnumber
the 125,000 farmers and farm-
laborers in M.L.’s economic
front-line, and that leading in-
dustries are scratching for men
and women.
Fourteen years ago, when
Labor socialists took over, every
two farmers carried less than
one State servant; now they
carry more than one each.
State employees have been re-
cruited at an average rate of
more than 6000 yearly, and a
halt is not being called yet. So
private employers find the Gov-
ernment their most ardent and
aggressive competitor in the
labor market, above all among
youths and girls fresh from
schools and colleges.
This diversion of labor into
unproductive channels is a blow
below the belt for production,
and in the long run there’s a
boomerang effect on workers
through shrunken purchasing-
power of high wages. Most of
Maoriland’s larger incomes
spring from soaring prices for
butter, meat and wool and
several rounds of wage-increases,
all unbacked by extra goods.
“St. Clement’s”: “The bells of
Shoreditch,” whose spokesman
according to the nursery rhyme
was prepared, “when I grow
rich,” to pay the three farthings
allegedly due to the bells of St.
Martin’s, but claimed by the
bells of Old Bailey, is still in
need of money—and a lot more
than three farthings. The bells
are in good condition, but the
steeple of St. Leonard’s Church,
in which they hang, suffered
severely at the hands of the Luft-
waffe. Cost of repairs is esti-
mated at over £3OOO, and a fund
is being started to raise the
money. I offer the suggestion
that “Oranges and Lemons”
parties throughout the Empire
should be able to get that
amount together in no time.
**. * *
“Sans Changer”: Cigarette-
lighter manufacturers will prob-
ably panic if the flameless
match, recently demonstrated by
a Canadian scientist, becomes a
commercial proposition. Re-
sembling an ordinary match
save for the larger head, it
generates such intense heat as to
ignite any substance it contacts,
despite the lack of any visible
flame. Like the ordinary safety,
it can be ignited only on the box.
But the inventor claims that,
once lit, there is no gale strong
enough to blow it out!
* * * •
“Percy Pawnticket”: Burke’s
Peerage is being reconditioned
for a debunking age; a man
named Pine (probably one of
the Norfolk Island Pines,
though he claims not to be in-
terested in his own genealogy) is
tearing ruthlessly through the
old pages, destroying fables that
have been allowed to stand since
the publication first appeared.
For example, an ancestor who
was claimed to have been a hero
of Agincourt is now said to have
seen his service with the Army
stores department, where no
doubt the pickings were as good
then as in modern times; and
the proud Cokes are alleged to
have derived from a cook. No
doubt it will be asserted that
the original Hope was the son of
Adam No-hoper, who decided
that a change in the family
name was due. There will be a
yell of execration from all the
Pawntickets if it is asserted that
the original Pawnticket, of
Mudby-on-Slosh, was actually a
vile pawnbroker instead of a
noble person who borrowed
money from such characters.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany.
US. should be addressed to the Editor.
E.G.L.: Your poem protesting at
the use of neon-lighting on churches
in South Africa was referftd to the
Religious Editor, who said, crypti-
cally, “Switch it off!”... .M.V.G.:
Not quite; but it has force V.S.:
Keep at it... .E.L.H.S.: “The Killer
Smoked Turkish Cigarettes”; but
your story smells of the lamp
D.J.: You sent us reminiscences, and
we wanted a story; we asked for
bread, and you gave us “Carrots.”
... .Bellerive: Here’s to Tommy:
R.A.F.; Oafs at the ’orses is
orf T.H.C.: If formulas like yours
for the Husband-Wife-Money story
were included in the Commonwealth
pharmacopoeia we would join the
doctors’ strike... .A.S.E.: Short
stories about angels are too good for
us H.H.: “The sound of a shot
rang out into the still night air.”
Can’t you stop it? It’s been ringing
ever since... .8.R.: The yachtsman
bored his wife into leaving him, and
now you want us to introduce him
to our readers... .R.E.H.: Night-
watchmen who catch crooks are too
strange for fiction L.H.; “Er
hello, Inspector. What are you doing
in Sydney?” We’ve sent him back
to Victoria for further questioning.
G.H.: You bought the pathetic
old man a ticket to Sydney, but he
died. Afraid he’s beyond our help,
too G.E.: “And those were the
last words she spoke for some time.”
Why not make it for ever? N.T.:
She dreamed he’d die, and he died.
O.K. But send the obituary to a
daily J.S.: “He tried to be an-
noyed and his sense told him he was
tired out. Too tired to read.” It’s
catching... .Pipsqueak: As your hero
said, “N 0”... .S.O’D.; Randwick
and Flemington are looking for
horses like yours that don’t know
when to stop.
From former jockeys
Who trod the scales,
One of the best
Was Tommy Hales.
A brilliant horseman
And judge of pace.
Important to sports
Was his mount in a race.
A memory, of the past
Is the once jockey of fame.
Who retained in his time
A household name.


ẁ
ẃ
•a
Mobiloi
Tie finest Oifeveb made
KEEP YOUR ENGINE
Mobiloil clean
VACUUM
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD. [lnc. in Ausl.)
GIVES
• A Cleaner Engine
• Perfect Lubrication
• Longer Engine Life
• Improved Performance
• Quicker Starting
• Complete Protection
At All Speeds
obi
-THE WORLD’S QUALITY OIL
HOW TO REDUCE
DELIVERY COSTS
u
r
A
m
hbW
' m
m
m
■i
S'?; -
H I
Hal
n
-rra32.2<
U/M &
UOCYji,
THE VAN WITH THE EXTRA SPACE
Carries more ...
Ford Ten-Ten is cleverly laid onl to give yon the
maximum amount of loadspace for 10 cwt.
bulk. On a 90" wheelbase, and with semi-
forward control, you have a full-sized van body
of 120 cubic feet ! Wide doors, front and rear,
save valuable handling time. The van is easy
to turn and park in narrow streets. And with
its trim modern appearance it will carry your
name as smartly as it carries your goods.
Costs less . . .
Basic costs are lower purchase price, registra-
tion, insurance and depreciation. Operating
costs are less too, with 10 h.p. economy for
stop-and-go running, and a sturdy chassis
engineered throughout to carry the full
10 cwt. payload.
Check these gener-
ous measurements
against the loads
you will normally
need to carry.
Your Ford Dealer will gladly call and show you how the Ten-Ten will save money for YOUR business.
Place your order with your local Ford Distributor or Dealer
FOBO MOTOR COMPANY OF AUSTRAL!? B TY. ■ TE. -ISC. HI 'VIC,' RFC. OFFICE: Gm.ONG, VIC.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“Wanted, saleswoman, stationary.”
—Adelaide daily.
Yet the successful applicant
will'still put her hand out for
the pay envelope.
A Word We Can’t Stomach.
“No statesman in the world has
ever travelled so often and so far.
Even those who criticise Evatt must
admit that he has guts.”
—Sydney " Sunday Telegraph.”
No journalist could fairly cavil
At this assessment of the travel
Done by Ben Chifley’s deputy
Who in the air and on th% sea
Has put a girdle round the earth
A dozen times; but men of
worth
Who wield the pen will shudder
at
The slangy sort of English that
Is used thus grossly to refer
To our respected Minister.
For surely with a little strain
Upon his journalistic brain
The writer could have had re-
course
To terminology less coarse
And with a nice profundity
Have spoken of “rotundity ”
D. H. E.
4* 4* 4*
“Only one woman in every six is
said to have naturally wavy hair.”
— Woman’s mag.
The other five naturally have
it waved.
The C is silent in N.S.W.
Housing Commission.
4* . 4* 4*
“Wanted, a nice sire, handy to
beach, for home building.”
—Suburban paper.
The advertiser wants his home
to be the daddy of the lot.
4* 4* 4*
“Fisheries inspectors worked for
five hours at the Sydney markets
measuring about 12,000 fish.”
Seems rather futile, seeing that
all fish are made to scale.
4* 4* 4*
“Woman, with an age-old, almost
supernatural cunning, governs the
world from off-stage.”
—“New Idea.”
Being the naturally-born pro-
ducer.
4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, single room with gas-
ring, young woman. ‘C.B.,’ Kirri-
billi Newsagency.”
—Suburban paper.
Well, no hide, no Christmas
box!
4* 4* 4*
“A man’s toe was worth £2OO, de-
cided a jury in Los Angeles this
week.” — Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
But think of what some heels
are worth!
4* 4* 4*
“Lady’s cycle, used only a few
times. Surfboard.”
—Suburban paper.
An amphibian?
Sodden Death.
“Poor diet is very seldom due to
poverty. It is caused by carelessness
and lack of interest.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
“I mind the time " the old man
said,
“When I was in a shearing
team
That roved the West from shed
to shed
Before the days of fruit and
cream.
“We had for cook an earnest
cove
Who did his best to try to
make.
In any kind of pot or stove,
A decent stew and Johnny
cake.
“And yet somehow he made a
hash
Of our digestions, for although
We kept him well supplied with
cash
He soon converted it to
dough.”
BERT.
Making Things Clear.
“Twelve officers have been ap-
pointed by the Immigration Depart-
ment to travel to and from Europe
on migrant ships helping migrants
with their problems and telling them
about Australia.”
“Now, remember” —the Mi-
gration Assistance Officer was
addressing the assembled D.Ps.
on the ship—“you will find
many things different in Aus-
tralia from what you have been
used to in Europe.
“One of the semi-savage cus-
toms which you will not be per-
mitted to pursue in Australia is
to drink beer while sitting at
tables. Our hotels —and there-
fore the Government —believe
that more beer can be consumed*
by standing on one foot in a bar,
and that is the only recognised
way of drinking it. Fighting your
way to the bar to get it will de-
velop that self-reliance and
aggressiveness for which Austra-
lians are justly famed.
“One of the great benefits of
the 40-hour-week sponsored by
our Socialist Governments has
been the sharp increase in our
consumption of beer. Statisti-
cians have revealed that the extra
hotel-time allowed the worker
by earlier closing of factories,
offices and shops has permitted
time to swallow on an average
an extra 2\ schooners per day.
The added revenue which our
Federal Government derives
from this by taxation (it takes
about sd. out of every glass) will
go back to the worker eventually
in free medicine if and when the
scheme is put into operation.
The medicine will, of course,
cure the ailments resulting from
the excessive drinking of beer
due to the extra time to drink it
given by the 40-hour week. This
is one of the best examples of
how Socialism works in Aus-
tralia.
“The barbarous European
countries from which you come
“Must need cleaning; she’s a couple of minutes slow.”
seem to cling to the quaint idea
that the presentation of such
things as the opera tends to the
cultivation of the mind. Far
more enlightened, our Socialist
Governments here see such things
for What they are: nothing but
degrading spectacles of people
being stabbed to death to the
accompaniment of a lot of noise.
They have therefore deemed it
wise to turn the workers’ minds
to true culture, and to, this end
have recently brought in again
night trots with betting. This,
combined with an expected
expansion in dog-racing, and the
excitement provided each day by
reading of the various swab in-
quiries, has led to a standard of
culture which has to be seen to
be believed.
“Although you will find on
arrival that you will be permitted
to work at your place of employ-
ment for only forty hours a
week, there are boundless oppor-
tunities for hiring your labor at
blackmarket rates on the two
week-end days given you for
leisure. In fact, it is expected
that you will fall into line with
all the other unionists and so
use your time. The great advan-
tage of this work also is that
you don’t need to pay tax on
it, for you don’t give a receipt
for pay received, nor is one ex-
pected. Whilst the Government
won’t like being defrauded of
tax, it wills welcome the extra
work done in the cause of in-
creased production which it
considers essential if it is to
avoid a depression, especially
while it is in office.
“Another important thing for
you to remember,” went on the
M.A.0., “is that when you do
obtain a job in Australia you
must work at the slowest speed.
By going fast, or even at a nor-
mal pace, you might so aggra-
vate union officials as to cause
a strike. Ordinarily the Govern-
ment wouldn’t care whether or
not your union was out on strike
and disrupting the economy of
the country, for after all most
of the Government leaders are
themselves ex-wartime-strikers.
But this is election year and the
Government can’t afford to have
too many serious strikes on hand
just before they go to the polls.
“Another reason why you
should go slow,” continued the
official, “is that the militant
unions—that is, the Govern-
ment —is convinced that the last
big depression was the result of
a conspiracy by greedy capital-
ists to bring it about by over-
production. This is recognised
as a far greater evil than under-
production.”
“I no onnerstan’,” broke in a
migrant in a puzzled voice.
“Your Gowernmen’ she make
shorter vorking veek, zen ze
vorker ’e ’ave to vork veek-end
to mak’ monish zo ’e can buy
zings made dear by shorter
vorking veek. Can you eggsplain,
pliss?”
“Another thing,” went on the
M.A.O. hurriedly, “the Govern-
ment will not tolerate any mi-
grant taking a job without join-
ing a union—-that is, any big
union run by Communists, and
therefore one of which the
Government is frightened. If
your trade happens to be one
covered by a numerically weak
union run by moderates, the
position is different —you don’t
have to join.”
Here a D.P. arose and flexed
his muscles. “I strong mans,” he
exclaimed, “I like blenty hard
vork, I”
The official staggered back,
horrified. When at last he re-
gained his composure his face
was stern.
“Our Government has no use
for the likes of you,” he said.
“The best thing you can do is
go back to Europe by the next
ship!”
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed firat is paid
43d. per line; all others 2 ld. per line.
Maori and Abo.
Fifty years ago it was feared that the
Maoris, the most virile and intelligent
branch of the Polynesian race, were
doomed to extinction. Decimated by in-
troduced diseases, their numbers had sunk
to a bare 25,000, and there seemed to
be no hope for them. Since then they
have staged the most astounding renais-
sance of any native race on earth. They
number over 100,000 today, and are in-
creasing faster than Europeans in N.Z.
An acquired immunity to the diseases
of civilisation played a big part, but
the really significant factor was that they
produced their own leaders, without
which no people can succeed in making
a spiritual, cultural and economic re-
vival. Men like James Carroll, Peter
Buck, Maui Pomare and Apirana Ngata
came forward to show their people the
right track to follow. They pointed out
that their race had never lacked dignity
or national pride; they showed that in
their traditions, legends, arts and crafts
they had something of which they could
be very proud. They knew that the Maori
had a wonderful asset in his teamwork,
an inheritance from the old social struc-
ture of the tribe —and on that foundation
they built soundly and well. The race
still faces problems, the most serious
being that city life does not suit many
young Maori men, but no doubt these
problems can be overcome as the others
were.
There is an object-lesson in this for
those who are trying to do something
for our aborigines. We can see the first
signs of a racial renaissance in the fact
that the race is starting to produce its
own leaders in men who have already
proved their worth as members of the
community. If those leaders work along
the right lines there is every hope of suc-
cess. The first and indispensable step is
to encourage pride of race, and our abo-
rigines have much to be proud of. Their
ancestors came here nearly 20,000 years
ago; it was not a kindly land for a
nomadic hunting people, yet they wrested
a living from it as few, if any, other races
on earth could have done. The tribes
had a well-organised social structure, and
obedience to their own code of laws was
well enforced. Their ability as trackers,
their powers of observation and their
endurance are world-famous.
No one big thing restores racial pride ;
it is built upon details. Even the dropping
of adopted white names and the adop-
tion of the aboriginal one as a surname
plays an important part. The worst pit-
fall of all is to try to make a people take
up occupations to which they are quite
unsuited by temperament; success can
come only if advantage is taken of their
undoubted ability to excel in some things.
City life, with a few notable exceptions,
does not suit (he abo., and half the battle
will be to find jobs for them.
Every possible help should be forth-
coming for these people as soon as their
own leaders encourage them to adopt a
policy of self-help. Something like a
modern version of the old tribal structure,
with its council of elders and its disci-
pline, should be possible. The Maori has
successfully adopted a combination of
the best of his old life with the benefits
of the new; American Indians are now
following the same road. — H. A. Lindsay
(S.A.).
Italian Migration
Most people recognise what N.Q.
owes to Italians, but consider they rep-
resent a potential racial problem. Con-
trary to popular opinion in the South,
however, one cannot but be impressed
by the way the Italians have been ab-
sorbed into our national life in N.Q.
An understandable and human trait
has tended to form them into communi-
ties, especially at Tully, Ingham and
Innisfail, where they outnumber Austra-
lians, but because schools, officialdom
and radio are Australian the majority
fall into the way of life of the minority.
First impressions make you call the
towns little Italics because of the amount
of Italian that is spoken, but how else
could adult, mostly uneducated, people
converse with each other. Many do learn
very well, and most make themselves
understood. The children, of course, all
speak perfect English.
In everything but language (and that
only among the older ones) they follow
the Australian way of life. You see
them in s.p. shops and hotels and
taking part in various kinds of sport.
[They worship at the same churches, dress
the same, like the same films, enjoy the
same radio and conform to our customs
and laws. Many names over tradesmen’s
shops or professional chambers are
Italian, but the owners are Australian in
outlook.
Modern fast communications and
central government and control, plus
English-speaking films and radio, have
prevented the racial isolation of the past.
There are no racial problems such as
arise in Palestine with the great cultural
and religious gulf between races. There
is no sign of a problem such as occurs
between Afrikander and English in South
Africa, where even postage-stamps are
bilingual, nor is there the strong racial
difference that rises in Canada.
There are two million surplus Italians
on the labor market—far more than
could be obtained from any other
European source. That represents an
excellent opportunity for us to tap a
large pool of the right people for our
climate. —M. J. M. (Q.).
Pollard’s Wheat Deal
Mr. Pollard’s New Zealand wheat-deal
skeleton popped its head out of the Can-
berra cupboard when the Minister con-
fessed to Parliament, in reply to a ques-
tion, that £6,000,000 of taxpayers’ money
had been paid to the Australian Wheat
Board since 1947 to bring the contract-
price up to world parity.
A further 2,500,000 bushels remain to
be delivered at 6s. 9d., and, as the board’s
current selling price is 15s. per bushel,
another million of Treasury money will
be donated to the bread-eaters of the
Dominion.
When the agreement was discovered in
1947, as the result of a disclosure in the
New Zealand Parlia-
ment, the secretary of
the Farmers and Settlers’
Association predicted
that it would cost the
nation at least £2,000,000
a year. In a sneering
reply Mr. Pollard re-
ferred to the wheatman
as an “amateur eco-
nomist,” and said that
the agreement was very
satisfactory.
While the New Zea-
land Government was
importing our wheat at
ss. 9d. (the original
price, since raised by Is.),
its Industries and Com-
merce Minister an-
nounced a guaranteed
home-consumption price
of Bs. per bushel for the
1947-48 and 1948-49
seasons. To add insult to
injury, Maoriland flour-
millers were able to mill
the cheap Australian
wheat and export it at the high overseas
price to sell in competition with Aus-
tralian flour.
“Labor’s” subsidy to the New Zealand
bread-consumer works out at about £1
per head for every man, woman and child
in Australia. I hope the electors re-
member that seven million quid of the
taxation wrung from them since 1947
has been devoted to Pollard’s wheat
charity.— Dick Turpin (N.S.W.).
Droughts and Railways
Will S. Pryce asserts (B. 2/3/’49) that
“by subdivision and resistance to the
temptation to overstock, experienced
graziers in the west of Queensland have
never suffered material losses during
droughts.” Yet history is definite that
peoples depending wholly on natural
grazing for their flocks and herds, as are
the pastoralists of Central and Northern
Queensland, constantly seek new pastures
because of rainless periods.
Our present need for railways to save
our stock arises from altered social con-
ditions. Sixty years ago drovers were
available to shift sheep, and up to 1923
the cooks’ camp-fires with the travelling
mobs were never out of sight over the
thousand miles of stock-route from
Morven to Qoncurry. The point of light
flickering in the dark told that beside
each fire were a minimum of 5000 sheep or
1000 cattle travelling to the fattening
areas of Southern Queensland and N. S.
Wales. In 1924 the cactoblastis had
killed the pear of Southern Queensland,
and made grass available for another
4,000,000 sheep to add to our numbers
supplied largely from the breeding-
grounds of the north.
After 1924 drovers seemed to go out
of business, and the big plants, often con-
sisting of up to 50 horses, are now rare.
Shepherds will not do a six-months’ trip,
and the shifting of stock, except for short
distances, has been taken over by the rail-
ways.
Last year no rain fell in the Winton-
Longreach districts, but there was an
excellent season in Charleville and Cun-
namulla. The railway required three
months’ notice before supplying trucks for
store sheep travelling to southern grass.
Latest figures indicate that Queensland is
short of sheep by 9,000,000, or more than
one-third its capacity.
The Tambo shire has been told by
the Federal Minister for Transport
that unless the Queensland Govern-
ment agrees to co-operate fully no
Federal assistance will be forthcoming to
further the building of the rail-link from
Blackall to Charleville. Yet Harold
Clapp, Director-General of Railway-
Gauge Standardisation, stressed the
economic necessity for the rail-link in his
1945 report, which at that time received
the unanimous support of the 72 branches
of the United Graziers’ Association. It
was also endorsed by the royal commis-
sion on public works in 1939, — Hadley
Propsting (Q.).
Japan
I wish it were possible to persuade all
Australians to read paragraphs seven and
eight of “Ek Dum’s” story “Guntaino
San at Home” (B. 12/1 /’49). The fact
that Japan’s population is now greater
than at the time of Pearl Harbor doesn’t
seem to worry Australia.
All this talk about democracy —Mac-
Arthur pattern —gives me the creeps. I
"His lordship kissed the animal, said 'Good night ,
my love,’ and retired for the night. ”
don’t want the Japs breathing down my
neck again. I’d worked with them and
had them under my orders for years be-
fore the Pacific war. Their satisfaction
with few of life’s amenities, their con-
scientiousness in their work and their wil-
lingness to toil long hours are well
understood by those who know the Jap-
anese. Also, the Jap is the most
dangerous when his grin is widest.
The Japs, as a nation, must have more
room to move around. No doubt, at
some not-too-distant date, they will be
admitted to an Asiatic League of Nations,
or something of the kind. That will be
the time when an awful lot of Asiatics,
Japs in particular, will be looking at Aus-
tralia with its “white” policy. Does any-
one doubt that?
When one realises that Japs each
work more hours in one day than an
Australian “wharfie” works in three, and
that they really work —men, women and
children —the whole question of Nippon
is one which should keep the Australian
population—less than 10 per cent, of
Japan’s—awake at nights.
There is just one more small point
about which we talk here in China. Aus-
tralia sent a delegate to the recent con-
ference in New Delhi of Asiatic nations.
That was surely the prize piece of
stupidity. It puts Australia —or so we
think —in the Asiatic-nations class. Per-
haps I should say that the Asiatics think
so. Consequently, a few million “Inder-
nesian Comrades” and, of course, masses
of workers from other Asiatic nations are
looking towards Australia.
As an average man who has, for years,
"been near enough to “look see,” I’m sure
that democracy and Japan will part com-
pany 15 minutes after the occupation
forces leave the country. There is only
one Emperor and his name is not Mac-
Arthur.
I might add that in this Chinese city
from which I write there are Jap-
anese goods on sale. They are priced
lower than the goods of any other
country, Australia included. — Mariner
(Macao, S. China).
Tools of Trade
Overhauling my kit of carpenter’s
tools I got to comparing prices paid for
several items with present charges. The
result was astonishing. Saws bought 30
years ago for 6s. 6d. to Bs. 6d. now cost
anything from 355. to 535., a wooden
German Jack costing 2s. is now 12s. 6d.,
a 3ft.-rule at 2s. is now 7s. 6d. (when
available). Braces have jumped from
7s. 6d. to 355., while chisels, once Is. to
2s. 6d., are now 4s. 6d, to Bs.
Most tools today are of exceptionally
poor quality and often crudely finished.
Before the 1914-18 war a full carpenter’s
kit ran into about £4O; today, if one
could be bought, the price would be
£250.
I’m wondering just what tools a
returned-serviceman trainee can buy with
the tenner doled out by the Govern-
ment. — Helldud (N.S.W.).
Doctors Differ
The fact that doctors do differ is the
reason for the well-nigh miraculous pro-
gress of the healing art. To return to the
medical and surgical standards of horse-
and-buggy days would be to condemn
millions of people now living normal lives
to sudden death or lingering pain. To
confine practitioners to the standards of
today is to deprive future generations of
blessings that are still in the test-tube and
crucible stage.
Doctors are trained to act on their own
initiative in routine tasks or in emer-
gencies. They cannot be advised or con-
trolled except by other doctors. They
must accept the very heavy responsibilities
for diagnosis and treatment; their social
and professional conduct is subject to an
extremely strict code of ethics. Academic
honors are neither inherited nor thrust
upon them. Greatness in their calling can
be achieved only by excelling in a field
where competition is keen, and the only
advertisement permitted is brilliant per-
formance.
When doctors cease to differ, when
they are regimented by laymen and com-
pelled to read by rote from the same book
of rules, medicine may be free, but the
members of the most honorable, most
progressive and most necessary profession
in the world will be shackled. — Non-com
(S.A.).
Immigrants
“Hadit” says (B. 16/2/’49) that many
immigrants who have arrived here full
of hope are going back poorer and wiser.
At the cost of fares to England for
an average family, these people could
buy an allotment and pay a deposit on a
house. They might have to wait up to
two years for its completion, but at the
end of that time they’d be sitting pretty
in a fine country with a great future. Will
they be able to do as well by returning
to England?
What is “tragic” about the shortage of
houses for immigrants? Some of them
seem to think that the State or Federal
Government should build rows of nice
little suburban houses for their immediate
occupation. “Hadit” seems to forget that
this is still a comparatively new, develop-
ing country, with a need for building-
craftsmen among the immigrants.
As for those diabolical Aussies who
strike and restrict their output to the dis-
comfort of the newchums—well, it’s their
country. And in spite of the strikes
“Hadit” need only put in a day or two’s
work in a brickworks or a sawmill to see
whether the “sheer organised laziness” of
his new compatriots is within his capacity.
I’m just beginning to understand what
a Queensland M.P. meant when I told
him I’d little money, and he replied that
Queensland would rather have us with
none. Then, he said, they’d be sure we’d
have to work hard and long to get our
fares back, and by that time we’d have
lost the desire to leave.—R. H. (Q.).
New States
The analogy between the better
economic running of smaller States
and smaller farms (B. 16/3/’49) is true
only when the management m each case
is entirely responsible for the administra-
tion or production in the smaller holding.
An essential condition is that the manage-
ment be financially independent. It some-
body else controls the finance there is no
incentive for efficient managing.
Under the present scheme of uniform
taxation the States are not being ad-
ministered efficiently because they owe no
responsibUity to the electors for their
finances Thus we have in N. S. Wales
record losses on the railways,.trams and
buses, while the Commonwealth controls
the finances from afar. \
New States, when they are created, win
doubtless be a healthy influence on th.
community, but such States will < only be
effective if they can control their own
finances. Only the abolition of uniform-
taxation will enable them to do this.
Karuah (N.S.W.).


Pise and Mudbrick
I am interested in “Fibre and Mud’s”
statement (B. 9/3/’49) that Common-
wealth building experts, “after extensive
study of English, American and Russian
earth-building methods,” have found that
pise houses are “comparable in comfort,
appearance and durability with any kind
of modern construction.”
Having helped to build many earth
houses, both in pise and mudbrick, and
being the possessor of a mudbrick house
built in the days of Batman, and still in
an excellent state of preservation, I can
confirm their opinion. But —why did
they go as far as Russia for their infor-
mation when there is a colony of such
houses, as well as a dozen others, within
20 miles of Melbourne which have been
built over the last 12 years?
Builders of these have all found that
mudbrick, while having all the qualities
claimed for rammed earth or pise, has
certain advantages over that method. It
requires less skilled labor, is cheaper and
is quicker. Any family can erect mud-
brick provided there is somebody about
who understands construction. Cost is
two-thirds of brick-veneer and the same
as timber, while the structure will be
both cooler and warmer than either.
All that is required is to make, or have
made, a bottomless mould of not less
than 14-gauge iron, dimensions 12 x 16
x 6 inches, with an iron-covered board
to fit easily into the top. Turn a slight
lip for convenience in lifting. Any clay
or sub-soil that is not very sandy is
satisfactory; the right kind can be found
on most building-sites—the earth that
comes out of excavations for foundations
is usually good enough. Pure clay is
sticky to handle.
Throw the earth into a heap, puddle
it, add an armful of straw per cubic
yard, thoroughly wet, and leave soaking
for two or three days to ensure that
every particle is moist. Shovel into
mould, stamp down well with feet, press
top down and smooth with board, lift
mould carefully and leave brick to dry
in the sun where it lies. It will be ready
for use in a few days.
To make mortar, screen some of the
earth through one-inch wire mesh and
wet. To surface, make a plaster from
equal quantities of fresh cowdung and
loamy soil, and when wall is dry apply
two coats i-inch thick with steel float,
then whitewash or kalsomine in any
color. Lime plaster is all right, but is
not as adhesive as dung.
To make whitewash, add to \ of a
kero-tin of Limil one pint of starch,
made as for linen, a i-cup of softsoap
dissolved in boiling water, let stand for
six hours and then break down with
water to creamy consistency. The white-
wash is completely waterproof and the
wall won’t need another coat for three
years. Mudbrick is more resistant to
rain than cement, unless the cement is
used very expensively.
Rodents and moisture are the chief
enemies of the mudbrick, so foundations
should be of stone, concrete or brick,
with, if necessary, a dampeourse.
If anybody has any doubts as to the
durability and appearance of a mud
house, I might add that the King lives
in one sometimes, one of the Royal
palaces being made of mudbrick. —
Bumpkin (Vic.).
Pise-building (B. 9/ 3 / ’49) is the cheap-
est type of construction known, looks
well and lasts a lifetime. The solidity
of these houses is beyond question, and
they can be given ~ almost the toughness
of concrete by adding a small quantity
of lime to the earth and straw, etc.
Many country pise houses consist
simply of wall-studs sunk into the earth
and covered with wirenetting; earth and
straw is then pugged between the wire-
netting. When dry these walls are really
sound, and if a better appearance is de-
sired they can be cement-rendered or
painted with a stiff cement or limewash.
For suburban use it would be advisable
to provide walls with regulation damp-
courses and build floors and bearers
independent of walls to avoid possible
dampness. With the wide-eaved roofs
in vogue today walls of pise would be
well protected from the elements and
weathering should be negligible.
The Housing Commissions have tried
unsuccessfully to meet the housing
shortage with brick, fibre and wooden
structures, in each instance requiring
skilled labor almost exclusively.
Reasons for the building lag have
always been material and skilled-labor
shortages.
A gang of five laborers under a com-
petent foreman, provided with a couple
of concrete-mixing machines and a steady
supply of earth (preferably clayey), water
and straw, could build a five-roomed pise
house plate-high in six days.
Give the finishing trades even five
weeks on the job, and cottages should be
ready for tenants in about six weeks, as
against six to 12 months as at present, —
Pongo (N.S.W.).
Red Tape
Could anything be more ludicrous than
the refusal of the Queensland Prices
Commissioner to allow the cost of trans-
porting fencing materials by road from
“Am lin reverse now, Henry ?”
Newcastle to Brisbane to be passed on to
the purchasers—who had previously
agreed to pay the extra cost?
The charge by boat is £3 a ton, but by
road it is £lO a ton haulage, plus £4 10s.
road-tax, a difference of £ll 10s. By
railway the difference is about £4. Note
that, although Labor is continually urg-
ing farmers to increase production, the
Queensland Government collects £4 10s.
per ton road-tax on urgently-needed
fencing materials.
The usual casuistry was used when
questions were asked in the Queensland
House. Said the Minister for Labor and
Industry, who administers price-control:
“Experience has shown that concessions
of this nature are generally abused. It is
difficult to identify the goods which have
been transported by road, and the higher
price is also charged on some goods
which come by sea or on goods which
were already in stock.,.. ” He refused to
have the matter reconsidered.
Graziers who want these materials are
quite prepared to pay the extra cost of
transporting them by road, but the Minister
maintains “that the merchants concerned
are capable of meeting the comparatively
small additional cost involved.” £ll 10s.
per ton is hardly a small additional cost.
J. Sparkes, M.L.A., Lyndley, Dalby,
well-known Hereford stud-breeder, who
raised the question of the shortage of
galvanised piping, iron and barbed-wire
in Parliament, has 42 windmills, seven of
them erected recently, on Lyndley,
which is dependent upon underground
water, and he is unable to get piping and
iron even for repairs, let alone to equip
the seven new bores. This has already
prevented one mob of 760 bullocks being
moved in from their breeding-ground to
be fattened on Lyndley.
How much longer have we to wait for
Governments that will give some con-
sideration to the needs of all sections of
the community?— Chappie (Q.).
Professional Politicians
Politicians are now paid a salary com-
mensurate with a full-time job, so it is
only fair to expect them to put private
interests second. The record of many
members at debates leaves much to be
desired, as was instanced by the remark
of Minister Pollard to S. M. Falstein:
“You are only in the House one day a
week.” That from one member of a party
to a colleague shows that there is not the
regular attendance that should be ex-
pected.
Once men were able to run their private
careers and attend to Parliamentary duties
as well because Parliament was not con-
sidered a full-time job, nor was it paid
for as such. Then being an M.P. was an
honor, not a career. Today, in most cases
the emphasis seems to be on the career
more than the honor.
We often hear a good deal about the
sacrifices men make to enter public life.
Some do sacrifice much, but most
members are better off in Parliament
than they have ever been, or hoped to
be, in private life.
If politics is to be a career and paid
for as such, it must be a full-time job, and,
of course, the member should be a man
or woman with the ability, intelligence
and honesty of purpose that would be
expected by private enterprise for a
similar salary.—J. M. C. (N.S.W.).
Root of the Matter
To “Ti-tree’s” excellent advice to
home-builders (B. 2/3/’49), I add one
tip. Having got your builder, work with
him yourself whenever you can, especially
in the early stages when there is a good
deal of bullocking to do. The advantages
are many. As your heart is in the job
your help speeds the good work con-
siderably. There is also a good deal of
emotional satisfaction in building even a
small part of your own home. And there
is the experience gained by working with
experts—valuable when, you come to all
the inevitable small alterations and addi-
tions. Like “Ti-tree,” I speak from
experience.— Magnon (Q.).
Thousands of people who have been
waiting for telephones for years have
been told that the delay is caused by the
shortage of skilled men and materials.
Yet during those years the P.M.G. has
had hundreds of his most skilled and ex-
perienced staff concentrated on experi-
ments and construction for frequency-
modulation. Hundreds more are occupied
on television, and it is now announced
that still more skilled men are busy with
an improved arrangement for sending
pictures by wire. All these jobs get
priorities in men and materials over such
necessary things as telephones. The men
concerned have been trained as telephone
technicians and engineers, and the country
would be far better off if they were em-
ployed as such, until essential installations
have been provided.—3l3o (Vic.).
, “B.P.P. (B. 9/ 2 / ’49) fails to grasp my
point—that decentralisation, not centra-
lisation, is the answer to the problem of
the Murray. Unlimited authority,
whether granted to Canberra, distant
State capitals, or a group of individuals
responsible to nobody, will do little to
advance the real interests of the Murray
people. A new State in the Riverina (the
only part of the Murray River system
suitable for hydroelectric schemes) would
provide the answer. Real local develop-
ment comes only after local political, and
then local economic, independence.—
New-Stater (N.S.W.).
Comics of a generation ago were
gentle things of fairies and elves and
catered only for the youngest of children.
When a man reached the mature age
of 10 he demanded stronger meat, and
Buffalo Bill furnished it. Buffalo boasted
one illustration, a lurid cover, and then
came a sheaf of dose type. It took some
mastering, but it was really 8.8. and
his colleagues who taught us to read. We
passed on to that old master of boys’
fare, Frank Richards, a purist, who
taught us language and, although he
never preached, gave us an appreciation
of dignity and decency. Our elders said
we read trash, but we did read, we didn’t
merely gape. Children don’t read today,
and they won’t learn later.— Dusty
Mile (Q.).
As a staff-sergeant who escaped from
Rabaul, I’d like a piece of Ex-R.S.M.
(B. 16/2/’49). The training of the
Rabaul garrison was not mainly bulldust
and spit. The garrison consisted of only
one battalion of A.I.F, [the 2/22nd], of
900 men in those days. They were
highly trained in jungle warfare and
could have given any Japanese troops a
good example of jungle tactics. They
were overwhelmed by between 30,000 and
60,000 Japs before retreating. The enemy
lost between 6000 and 7000 killed or
wounded, and that alone proves our men
to have been well trained. — Staff-sgt.
(N.S.W.).
Every Friday the Sydney County
Council has a programme over at least
one commercial station during which the
listener is constantly plugged with the
idea of an all-electric home and the
advantages of many home-electric ap-
pliances. This, to the householder who
finds the power constantly cut off, is the
last word. The S.C.C. has admitted that
it cannot meet the demand for electricity
for another two or three years, so it
would be well advised to conserve its
funds for a big splash in advertising when
it can guarantee delivery of the power
to work the gadgets.— Simple Simon
(N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 10
Across.
I— Shock the American girl opposed
to a flavoring for liqueurs. (9)
s—Dismiss the soldiers —permanently.
(5)
B—Tending to rid the epoch plunge
with one cat in it. (11)
10—Bunkum Mountain comes back.
(3)
ll Trials or distributions of cards.
(7)
13—Firm to hurry an irregular place
in Spain. (7)
15 —Strangled fish decayed. (9)
17— The scum duck between the
medico and the steamer. (5)
18— I follow the papal letter to the
source of Australia’s best turf. (5)
20—Innate are in tins I see. (8)
24 The dope is to obtain a mat. (7)
25 Original Moslem has his domicile
in the carpet. (7)
26 Employ. (3)
27 Electorate vehicle shut-up with a
tune. (11)
29 Inquisitive negative upset an
affirmative. (5)
30— Corseted parent among the sheet-
anchors. (9)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
(Solution in next issue.)
Dow.
1 — This city makes a horse yearn. (7)
2 Hero loved him and there’s an
unpleasant grin about it. (7)
3 Baba gets a half-century in first-
class company. (3)
4 Displayed how little Edward be-
haved like a cannibal towards
little Vincent. (7)
5 Fitting subscription. (3)
6 Lady Mount North to leave
Napoleon’s battle horse. (7)
7 Beams on a wager and behaves
treacherously. (7)
9—A Hardy girl is upset by this
valuable possession. (5)
12 —Swearing that the eggs were upset
on the bird’s strongest limb. (7)
14 —Food for Stalin? (7)
16—Age. (3)
18 — Nomad resting-place is to ring
you in. (7)
19 — All sure to get these honors. (7)
20 — In the meantime, what should •
you do if ’e dies. (7)
21— Beautiful Greek vale where a
golfer starts about the legislator.
(5)
22 — Mother’s upset by a song in this
country of a famous forerunner
of the good-neighbor policy. (7)
23 —Snub the girl with a weapon. (7)
27 — Coquettishly demure. (3>
28 — Little State sat up. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 9.


Chifley
• 4* e I
is airaid
to smash Communism
AUSTRALIA IS SICK OF FEEBLE EXCUSES
Mr. Chifley excuses Communism as being just “another
political philosophy.”
The Liberal Party says Communism is treason, and every
real communist a traitor. We refuse to mince words
over self-evident facts •
There must be no more misguided tolerance; no
more weak-kneed compromise.
Liberalism stands for free thought and free
expression. That is to say, there must be room in
the community for every kind of political
philosophy except one which attacks Parliamentary
self-government itself, or which sets out to destroy
freedom for others.
As soon os the Liberal Party is returned to
office the Communist Party in Australia will
become an illegal organisation. Those who preach,
teach or advocate Communism will be treated as subversive and
treasonable agents should always be treated.
I believe that Communism, if allowed to persist and develop in Australia, will destroy trade
unionism in this country and that the destruction of trade unionism would be a calamity. I
believe that it will destroy even those freedoms which have been left to us by a Government which
faint-heartedly ‘‘tolerates” Communism.
The time has come to treat Communism in Australia not as an eccentric “philosophy"
but as a deadly enemy •
Only a Non-Labor Government will so treat it.
m&m
\
ft. G. MENZIES,
PARLIAMENT HOUSE , CANBERRA
IMB-W
Authorised by D. H. CMand, SO Ash St., Sydney.
