

HATEAU TANUNDA BRANDY
A PRODUCT OF THE
SOI
house of
SEPP E L T
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3602
Wednesday, February 23, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
Holborn Viaduct and Newgate
at the corner of Giltspur Street
stands the Church of St. Sepulchre, the
history of which began in the days of
the twelfth century Crusaders, though
much of this edifice was restored in the
fifteenth and nineteenth centuries. The
church was damaged during the Great
Fire of 1666 but the 15th century tower
and the south porch pictured here.
Before 1774, it was the custom to pre-
sent a nosegay at this church to each
condemned criminal as he was dragged
through the centre of the city from the
Tower or near-by Newgate prison to
Tyburn, the famous place of execution
which is now the site of Marble Arch.
Until 1890 the bells of St. Sepulchre were
always tolled on the occasion of an exe-
cution at Newgate Prison.
In a glass-case in the .choir of the
church may be seen a handbell which it
was the duty of the bellman of St.
Sepulchre’s to ring outside the condemned
cell at Newgate Prison at midnight pre-
ceding an execution.
Captain John Smith, Governor of
Virginia 1608-09, was buried in this
church. The long inscription commenc-
ing “Here lyes one conquered that hath
conquered kings” has almost worn away
but it is given in full on a brass tablet
on the wall. The church also contains a
portrait of Pocahontas, the American
Indian princess who is said to have saved
Captain Smith from death at the hands
of her fellow redskins by throwing her-
self across his body. This incident is
sculptured on the Capitol at Washington.
She later married an Englishman, John
Rolfe, came to England and died at
Gravesend, near London, in 1617.
ST. SEPULCHRE’S, A LANDMARK OF ANCIENT LONDON.


Learn
at HOW
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
8.8.U9 AGE
The Red Page
FRANCE IN TWO NOVELS.
Before glancing at the dust-jacket of
Antarctic Fugue (Pushkin Press) the
present reviewer, it is sad to relate, had
never heard of M. Blaise Cendrars.
After reading his book, it is even sadder
to relate, the reviewer hopes never to
hear of him again.
M. Cendrars is stated by his publishers
to have had a great influence on present-
day French writing ; which, if it were not
for the estimable and always delightful
Gabriel Chevaliier, would be enough to
make one never want to hear any more
about present-day French writing.
M. Cendrars does part of his influenc-
ing by the use of tremendous and exotic
similes. If his translator is not at fault,
he describes women dancing at a night-
club in his opening paragraph as going
“round and round like soughing pet
tops.” On the next page his English hero,
who goes by the peculiar name of Dan
Jack, feels his temples “throbbing like
tom-toms.” He has just been “stabbed”
by the gilt stair-rods on the red carpet,
“painfully as darts.”
This is taking place in pre-1914 St.
Petersburg, where Dan Jack, invariably
wearing a monocle, plays the part of a
millionaire playboy. Ejected from the
night-club, he wakes to a bleak dawn on
a river-bank where fast cutters “jump”
about in confusion “like dolphins terri-
fied of a coming squall.”
The flags on the ships are “clacking
like castanets” ; the wind is “humming
like a turbine” ; Dan Jack, with his
monocle and his hangover, feels that he is
going up in the air like “an observation
balloon.” Sick of all this, with his heart
“sounding like a pile-driver,” he charters
a steamer, pays a brief visit to Tasmania,
and whizzes to the Antarctic. He is
accompanied by three demented bohem-
ians—a poet, a sculptor and a musician
from St. Petersburg—and by “the mourn-
ful cries of penguins.”
With his characters on an island in the
far south, M. Cendrars continues to exert
his great influence on present-day French
writing. He does it like this;
Rain, snow, wind. The wind veered
again. The' hurricane came on more
furious than before.
Everything swam in murky tears.
The sea raged furiously.
It froze hard.
Then the hurricane swept it all away.
In the midst of this nonsensical prose
M. Cendrars depicts, with many gruesome
details, the progressive disintegration of
his characters ; and at the same time is
so ineffably symbolical about monocles
and other matters that nobody can pos-
sibly understand him. In the whole of
his book the only really effective scene
is where his demented sculptor makes
statues out of ice which will melt as soon
as the sun shines ; but this, which could
be interpreted ag a satire on abstract art
—the sculptor hopes to go one better than
ice and sculpt in nothing at all—is some-
what weakened in its effect by the im-
pression that M. Cendrars himself is
doing the very thing he satirises: sculpt-
ing in ice, or in nothing.
Like the monocled Dan Jack, who sets
up a whaling factory when his com-
panions have perished, longs for love and,
at the end, decides to drink himself to
death, M. Cendrars appears to be
troubled by “the agonising problem of
vestigial atavisms.” His little book took
11 years to write, and was composed at
Paris, Chamonix, Grenoble, Saint-Bert-
rand-de-Comminges, Brussels, San-Paulo,
Rio, La .Negresse and Angostura.
Gabriel Chevallier’s The Euffe Inherit-
ance (Seeker and Warburg) is, of course,
rather a different kind of present-day
French writing. Even if Chevaliier had
written the worst book in the world (as,
to give him his due, M. Cendrars has
very nearly done) one would always re-
member that he had written one of the
best — Clochemerle.
And The Euffe Inheritance is very
nearly as good as that noble harvest of
grapes and sunshine. In fact, if it seems
to fall just a little short of Clochemerle,
the fault may lie in the reader rather than
in the author; something of the quality
of astonishment must always be lost in
the response to an author’s second and
third books even if they are intrinsically
as delightful as his first.
Like both Clochemerle and Saints
Colline, The Euffe Inheritance is uncer-
tain and rambling in construction. It
resembles, in its curious method of ex-
pansion, the ripples from a stone dropped
in water; except that the ripples grow
deeper as they widen.
The stone is a vase. Flavie Lacail, a
luscious and lavish housewife, who is
suddenly embraced by an elderly admirer,
drops the vase on the head of M. Con-
stant Euffe, a wealthy grocer who is in-
nocently strolling to meet his mistress.
That is the finish of the grocer and, as the
ripples widen, the ’ beginning of a story
about his family; of his younger
daughter, who falls romantically in love
with a, young aristocrat who, eventually,
is killed in the war ; of his elder daughter,
who runs away with a chauffeur; of his
pious and repressed widow, who, surpris-
ingly and uproariously, takes to rum and
is consigned to the care of a respectable
lady-companion who also takes to rum ;
and of the two sons of the family, Ger-
main, who hungers after love and poetry
and ends with divorce and the composi-
tion of rhymed advertisements for the
grocery business, and Edmond, who, led
by a snobbish wife, strives for social posi-
tion and is continually embarrassed by
the scandalous behavior of the Euffes.
These characters and others—notably
Flavie Lacail’s bicycling husband, who
shoots her lover with a dog-pistol; and
the ferocious widow of a general who
treats the village as if it were a parade-
ground and she the martinet in command
—are all brilliantly portrayed. The prose,
surviving the two handicaps of a shoddy
translation and Chevallier’s use of a
vague and unnecessary imaginary novelist
to describe his scenery for him, gives an
impression of charm and richness. And
the construction, if frequently clumsy,
is far from being as untidy and as for-
bidding as were the struggles of Cheval-
lier’s deepest novel, Saints Colline.
The Euffe Inheritance demonstrates
once again that Chevaliier has his own
proud inheritance: from Rabelais, Balzac
and Maupassant. It is a novel with
three layers, as it were, of significance.
First, it is a sparkling comedy. Next,
it is full of deep human wisdom. And,
lastly, though one remembers the comedy
and the ironic understanding of human
nature, the book ends, like Clochemerle,
in tragedy. The romantic young lover is
killed in battle, Edmond in an accident,
and the control of the business passes tr
the runaway chauffeur, who has turned
blackmarketeer—the three events com-
bining to make a vitriolic comment on the
physical and spiritual collapse of France:
tjie which is exemplified, if one cares to
take the book seriously, and if it really
is taken seriously by the intellectuals, in
Antarctic Fugue.
The Grace Leven Award.
The 1948 Grace Leven Prize for poetry
has been awarded to Francis Webb for
A Drum for Ben Boyd. The judges were
R. G. Howarth and T, Inglis Moore.
The first award was made in 1947,
when it went to Nan McDonald’s
Pacific Sea. A Drum for Ben Boyd was
first printed in The Bulletin, as were
the majority of Nan McDonald’s poems ;
both books were published by Angus and
Robertson.
The prize (of £5O, to be increased to
£lOO when certain contingencies are ful-
filled) was left by William Baylebridge to
be awarded annually in January for the
best volume of poetry published in the
preceding 12 months by a writer “either
Australian-bom and writing as an Aus-
tralian, or naturalised in Australia and
resident in Australia for not less than
ten years” ; a peculiar condition which
would appear to permit the awarding of
the prize to any European immigrant who
becomes a naturalised Australian, but
would disqualify any British, Canadian,
South African or New Zealand writer who
settles in Australia and who, under Mr.
Calwell’s Nationality Act, automatically
becomes an Australian citizen after five
years’ residence and is not obliged to —in
fact, cannot —formally become “natur-
alised.” )
For example, the judges or the Per-
petual Trustee Co., which administers
Baylebridge’s estate, may have felt
obliged by the conditions to disqualify
William Hart - Smith’s Christopher
Columbus on the grounds that Hart-
Smith, though he wrote the poem in Aus-
tralia, lived here for over five years and
served with the A.1.F., was born in Eng-
land and afterwards lived in New Zealand.
A decision on purely critical grounds
as to the relative merits of A Drum for
Ben Boyd and Christopher Columbus
would be extraordinarily difficult. Pos-
sibly, considering another of the condi-
tions, Hart-Smith at 38 could be held to
be “advanced in years” as compared with
Webb at 23, and, keeping in mind Bayle-
bridge’s ardent nationalism, Ben Boyd
might be held a more suitable theme for
the award than Christopher Columbus;
but it is doubtful whether Baylebridge,
though he might well have preferred the
prize to' go to Webb in this instance—it
is, in fact, an admirable decision—would
really have wished to exclude Hart-Smith
from consideration. It would seem advis-
able for either the Perpetual Trustee Co.
or some such body as the Fellowship of
Writers to have the legal position
clarified by an application to the court,
so that, for future awards, Baylebridge’s
real intention may be disentangled from
his possibly muddled phraseology.
Some other conditions of the prize
are that the award shall not be made in
two consecutive years to the same com-
petitor, and no competitor shall be
eligible to receive more than three
awards; and that, “since a gift to a
young man is more likely, in the nature
of things, to benefit the cause of literature
than such a gift to one advanced in
years,.this fact shall duly (but not unduly)
be taken into account when determining
the award.”
Indian Tales.
Whether or not Indian Tales (Australa-
sian Publishing Co.) is the best book
Mrs. Ethel Anderson has yet published
it is certainly by far the most readable
and the most likely to interest a wide
audience.
Mrs. Anderson has written a very odd
poem about a squatter named, if one
remembers rightly, Eustace ; another odd
poem of book length, entitled Sunday at
Yarralumla, having to do with explora-
tion, New Guinea and Vice-Royalty.
She has written, in collaboration with
Viscountess Ruthven, Joy of Youth, of
which no review copy reached the Red
Page. And she has written, in prose,
Timeless Garden, about Sydney’s Ad-
miralty House, and Adventures in Apple-
shire, about rustic matters in England.
All these books have shown genuine
talent; but with something remote and
capricious about it: as if Mrs. Anderson,
from choice or from necessity, would not
come down to earth. Adventures in
Appleshire was, perhaps, an exception ;
but, in spite of its touches of charm and
humor, its rumblings along the well-worn
lanes of the English rustic tradition were
not likely to arouse any violent enthu-
siasm in what Mrs. Anderson had called
“our Antipodean simplicity.”
No doubt it would be making alto-
gether too rigid an orthodoxy of the
democratic tradition in Australian writ-
ing to deny any author the right to
describe the doings and the habitations
of Vice-Royalty; but the fact remains
that Mrs. Anderson’s excursions in this
field made one slightly uncomfortable.
One had the feeling that one should read
her, so to speak, with one’s shoes off.
If Mrs. Anderson had chosen to give us
the lowdown on recent events at Yarra-
lumla it might have been a different
matter; but she has not, alas, been
interested in such things. And then, if
one accepted her subject-matter as
legitimate—even as an admirable cor-
rective to a democratic tradition that
tends to become merely plebeian—one
still had to swallow her style: which was
elegant, but very, very stylish.
In Indian Tales Mrs. Anderson seems
to have thrown her’style out the window.
She is even guilty, in her own person, of
such a cliche as “We heard that the
horses had arrived in Bunda in splendid
fettle and full of beans” ; and in her
dialogue she descends so far as to allow
a woman hiding from the/ferocity of the
Indian Mutiny to say “Our fate is
sealed.”
One does not applaud, of course, such
lapses. But they are in this instance an
indication of a very great virtue: Mrs.
Anderson is not interested so much in
“fine writing” in his book as in telling a
good story. Her self-sacrifice, indeed, on
occasions when she might well be
tempted to allow her narrative to be
lost and smothered in embroidery, is
astounding.
Here are jasmine and lotus; here -are
pearls and rubies; here are Indian ladies
eating candied roses and violets; and
Mrs. Anderson, after barely mentioning
such delicacies, throws them away to get
on with the story of how, in the days
when the great Akbar played chess with
dancing-girls for pawns, a slave who in
her own right was a queen was rescued
by a Burmese Admiral: a story which
has left behind it in India a legend and
a ghost, Mrs. Anderson had some ac-
quaintance with the latter.
This story is as remote, of course, as a
piece of old tapestry; but Mrs. Anderson
brings the legend brilliantly to life. And
her next story, dealing with the Mutiny
and its attendant barbarities, has an
uneasily topical flavor: the figures of
white women, their husbands having been
murdered, crouching in an underground
retreat while their t house is burnt over
their heads, have not been repeated, for-
tunately, in contemporary events in India,
but they fit all too naturally into the
general pattern of the East in recent
times. Mrs. Anderson has a moment of
vivid drama in this story when British
refugees, who have been waiting to flee
across a river, are caught in moonlight
and massacred ; and this is linked to the
pathetic and yet charming story —said to
be true—of a Mrs. James Greene who
escaped from the Mutiny to a harem.
Of course the decoration natural to the
setting has not been completely slashed
away. There is, for instance, this picture
of the team of sacred white horses which
Bombardier Gwyllam trained for the
marriage-procession of the son of the
Talakdar of Bunda:
Lit by the hundreds of flaming torches
that lined the roadway the twelve white
steeds flashed past in their gleaming harness
dusted with silver, their white satin rosettes,
their waving white plumes dancing in the
wind of their passage; The silver harness
jingled, the forty-eight white-painted hooves
tapped a gay refrain on the hard road, the
illuminated whip flashed out, flicking first
one horse’s ear, then another’s.
But Mrs. Anderson has, this time,
struck the right balance: there is the
beautiful decoration, and then there is
the straightforward character-study of
Bombardier Gwyllam, a sour, revengeful,
dangerous, skilful man who had once
driven twenty piebald ponies in a circus
and who tries to make Mrs. Anderson
ride a mankiller ; and, at the same time,
there is an unforgettable portrait of the
old Talakdar, who, when the Bombardier
nearly upsets the coach and has to shoot,
on a bridge above a swift-flowing river,
the two leading horses, is delighted at an
adventure that will make him famous.
The horses, incidentally—another topical
touch—have been doped.
Whether she is writing about a Maha-
rajah who is trying to kill his nephew
and, among many other ingenious
machinations, has a servant hurl at the
young man’s head a leaden cricket-ball,
or about an Amir of Afghanistan who,
on a shopping feast in Calcutta to con-
sole himself for a British officer’s refusal
to sell him his wife, buys “wax figures
wearing boys’ tweed suits and labelled
‘Jolly Smartly’,” hundreds of. biscuit-tins
which, because of the design on the
wrapper he thinks contains parrots, and,
from ap impoverished Portuguese shop-
girl, 78 spring beds, Mrs. Anderson
always manages to keep the decorative
and the exotic attractively blended with
humor and humanity, and she never
forgets that the story-teller’s first job is
to tell a story.
There are eight long short-stories in
Indian Tales, and, taken as a whole, they
make a remarkably complete picture of
Indian life from legendary to modern
times. In its unassuming way, the book
is the essence of India: and the present
is a very good time to bottle and preserve
that curious commodity. Mrs. Anderson
could be read with pleasure on this sub-
ject by anyone who enjoys either Kipling
or Maurice Collis. The book is, on
reflection, surely her best to date. There
is always something marginal about mere
fine writing ; and one can always swallow
and forget a few lapses of style in a book
that, modestly and ' amusingly, travels
along the great central path of humanity.
Reviewed Briefly.
Mr. President: Maurice Ashley (Cape).
A thoughtful and well-written study of
six U.S. Presidents —Washington, Jeffer-
son, Jackson, Lincoln, Theodore Roose-
velt and Woodrow Wilson. The under-
lying purpose is to analyse and improve
Anglo-American relations.
No Idle Words: Ivor Brown (Cape).
The fifth of a series in which the author
takes a rare, a difficult or a misused word
and writes a very brief and amusing essay
on it. Dealing with “debauched,” for
instance, Brown reminds us that, accord-
ing to Aubrey, Shakspeare “would not
be debauched” and, if invited to partake
of debauchery, would say that he was in
pain.
From Santos to Bahia: Hakon Mielche
(Hodge). Light, bright and informative
travel-writing about Brazil. The author,
a Danish journalist, inspects everything
from prehistoric caves to modern revo-
lutions.
The Times of Melville and Whitman:
Van Wyck Brooks (Dent). The third
volume in a series on the history of
American literature. Besides the titans
of his title and a host of lesser figures.
Brooks deals in this volume with Bret
Harte, Nathaniel Hawthorne and Mark
Twain. He is particularly interesting on
Mark Twain’s fear of public opinion:
“It became a regular practice with him,
when his feelings differed from the public
view, to write —and suppress —a letter ex-
pressing his feelings, and then to write
another letter, which he permitted to
appear in print, that placed him more or
less on the popular side.” He regards
Mark Twain, because of his concessions
to the mob, whether on questions of
politics, nationalism or morality, as “a
writer who was only an artist now and
then —for is not the artist the man whose
mind is ‘free’? —but who remained a great
folk-writer and . especially a great folk-
personality.”
(Red Page continued on page 4.)


Anthony Horderns’
m
s lUU KS
n
S!
1
u
✓3
mm ml w
■
pi
%H
P
7*
mm
M
Ss
J
i iH^
1 -
H
ss*
m
55
*
: •■:>;
m
■
vt :.-;
: i, ;
a ■ m:
;■ :,
l iw
• *
■
!
MM
K,
HP
v ;
.
V
r»
HR
*
• -
: I
Xr.:r ■■„
•Xl
thonu Horderns'
in
Mancheste
Pitt Street
x
FREIGHT PAID.
.
M 2401
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY
Just arrived, and especially recommended
to lovers of beautiful furniture! An English-
made Desk designed in true Chippendale
style with carved ball and claw feet, rope
edge, polished or tooled leather top, with
nine drawers. In Rich Mahogany colour.
4ft. 6in. x 2ft. 6in. . . £156 6 0
sft. x 3ft £173 13 6
sft. 6in. x 3ft. 6in. .. £l9l 0 0
“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
When buying furniture, remember you
have to live with it for a long time . . . and
your selection can reflect a well-ordered and graceful
approach to living ... or vice versa! Visit our
Home Furnishing Bureau for expert advice.
An ideal piece of Furniture for the Hall,
where space is nearly always restricted.
Made in a half circle to fit snugly against
the wall, the table is B6in. wide and 29in,
high, with cabriole legs, and finished in
a Medium or Dark Walnut colour. Price,
only • £6/8/6
Designed to fit unobtrusively into any odd
comer of room or hallway, these Tele-
phone Sets of Chair and Table, 22in. x
15in., 25in. high, with one drawer and
turned legs, are of sturdy construction
and beautifully finished in Dark Walnut
colour. Price, set £B/9/9
A graceful Period Chair that
would be suitable for hall
telephone or general utility,
has a cane back and a spring
upholstered seat covered in
pretty floral tapestry, turned
legs and is finished in Dark
Walnut colour . . . £4/5/6
A practical and strongly made
Writing Desk, 3ft. x 2ft. with four
roomy drawers, a pull-out dictation
slide and solid top. The desk is
finished in a Medium Oak colour.
Price £9/14/9
Charming two-tone Cream Lace Bedspreads featuring
attractive floral design worked in White. Double bed size,
goin. x ioBin., price 91/6
Art Silk Table Cloths featuring Cream ground with
coloured border and lines giving a chec\ effect. Size soin. x
soin., Blue, Green or Gold colouring. Price, each, 13/11
Table Cloths of strong wearing
quality. Size 52m. x 52'm., 21/9;
S2in. x join., each 29/11
Cream linen coloured bordered
freight extra
Third Floor
- ' • >* : ' ' .. •


Duhamel in Duplicate.
Someone should warn the contempor-
ary autobiographer against monopolising
the world’s conversation. Mr. James
Agate’s weary Ego is at last at rest,
having had almost as many lives as a
cat, which it somewhat resembled.
Sir Osbert Sitwell has arrived at his
third (or is it his fourth?) volume, and
still no sign of the family vault. And
here is Light on My Days (Dent), an
autobiography by Georges Duhamel; a
translation by Basil Collier of the two
Volumes, Inventaire de I’Abtme and
Biographic de Mes Fantomes, which
bring the French doctor and* author only
as far as his twenty-second year! It is
not merely that there is a shortage of
paper, but of time. How can the Sydney-
sider, for instance, cultivate these de-
manding acquaintances and still do jus-
tice to the “Sunday Herald”?
M. Duhamel is doubly culpable. He
has already printed huge slabs of his fact
as fiction in his best-known work, the
ten-volume Pasquier Chronicles. “M.
Pasquier,” himself, is Duhamel’s father,
Pierre-Emile Duhamel; and as in fiction,
so in fact, the father decided at the age
of 40 to leave herbalism and sit among
boys and young men to qualify as a
doctor of medicine. Both autobiography
and novels are full of the family’s
struggle for existence while father goes
to school with his satchel of books, and
of its endless packings-up ajfid removals
from country to town, and town to
country.
“]?r. Pasquier” is an unfaithful hus-
band. Dr. Duhamel pere buys a practice
and sets himself up there with a former
maidservant as his wife until Madame
Duhamel, languishing in Paris, takes
poison, and sends (quelle femme! quelle
femme /) for the Doctor.
Duhamel’s fact, if not stranger than his
fiction, is at least parallel with it; and he
causes his double lives with the sugges-
tion that maybe people will be interested
in seeing where they are different. Evi-
dently it is going to be very important.
Does not M. Seignobos write to him
about 1932, “It will be impossible to write
a history of France at the beginning of
the twentieth century without drawing on
essential human documents contained in
books like yours”?
It would not be surprising if posterity
set more value upon this Gallic Gals-
worthy’s memory than on his imagina-
tion ; and how pleasing to the English
reader to think that he does not have to
read another Forsyte Saga about a
French family, but can have all this
yesterday-realism served up to him as a
set of readable reminiscences! Apart
from the social details which are going
to be of such ihterest to history, the
most memorable parts, as is natural to a
doctor’s book, are medical. Duhamel has
been sickly all his life, and all his life
has suffered unexpected seizures of the
throat, any one of which might have
suffocated him. As a child, weakened by
various infantile maladies, he submitted
to the following prescription from an old
general practitioner:
The butcher, whose shop was then
situated on the triangular open space called
The Pavement, personally killed the beasts
destined for his customers in an open shed.
On days when he was undertaking this
dramatic performance, my mother led me
to the yard. The ox, with its feet bound,
stood with its head in a leather mask in
which dangled a steel spike. The butcher
felled the beast with a single blow of the
pole-axe, which drove the spike through
the frontal bone. The monster fell on its
side, emitting vast sighs. Thereupon the
butcher plunged a broad-bladed knife into
its throat. A huge jet of blood escaped
from the wound thus made. The butcher
held out a glass which he handed me
directly, filled with this frothy, steaming,
terrifying fluid. I drank the potion hic-
cupping and sweating with agony. My
mother exhorted me to submit Happily
the butcher did not kill every day.
The second half of-this English trans-
lation, “A Muster of Ghosts,” is mainly
his experiences as a medical student, and
has some fine portraits of doctors and
lecturers: M. Renon, who one day told
them during a lecture how he had suf-
fered from stuttering, and how he had
got the better of it:
“Thus I succeeded in getting the
be-be-be”
M. Renon was a little absentminded.
The students brought him an aorta, taken
from the heart of a heavy smoker, pinned
to a sheet of cork, and laid open to show
its patches and encrustations.
“Yes, it’s remarkable,” M. Rdnon said.
“And how is the patient?”
There is a ferocious picture of the
Creole surgeon, Morestin, operating for
cancer of the tongue, painted with that
command of carnage by which Duhamel
made his way into literature at the
end of the First World War with his
terrific series of blood-and-guts sketches,
“Civilisation,” taken from his war-time
experiences of thousands of operations.
Now a member of the French Academy,
he may be expected to have something
to say about most of the-(French authors
of his time; but this translation ends
before he has met many of them, al-
though there are long accounts of days
and evenings spent with Vildrac (who
married Duhamel’s sister), Verhaeren,
Rene Arcos, etc., names more significant
to French than to English readers.
There is mention of the dislike of
nature of his friend Paul Valery, sym-
bolist poet and metaphysician, who seems
to die in a garden, but revives when put
in the house among books and works of
art; and a story of Stefan Zweig, who,
at 30, considered he knew all there was
to be known.
“Well, if that’s so,” Verhaeren said to
him, “you must regard people like me as
ignoramuses.”
Zweig smiled out of the comers of his
eyes and said calmly: “Yes.”
The translation ends in 1906, with
Duhamel and his literary friends, Arcos,
Gleizes and Vildrac, burning to “lead the
life of free artisans, learn typography,
print books, leave Paris and, as Vildrac
sang: ‘Live as free men, devoted inmates
of Liberty Hall!”’
Besides this Rabelaisian experiment,
which he has used in one of his novels,
Duhamel has still his travels, his First
World War experiences, his novels, his
friends among writers and his Second
World War experiences—he was in
charge of French broadcasting when the
Germans entered Paris—to write about.
It should make a little library. But long-
winded though it will be, and interspersed
with moralisings and reflections, it is a set
of books to anticipate with pleasure.
R. McC.
Some More About Samoa .
At first glance there seems little to
connect the former owner of the Golden
Cockerel Press, which produced some of
Britain’s most exquisite limited editions
of the 1930’5, with Samoa. Why, as
soon as the war ended, should Robert
Gibbings push off for eighteen months
in Polynesia?
As his story of the tour, Over the Reefs
(Dent), unfolds, we find the answer.
Polynesia, and especially Samoa, is one
of the world’s last refuges of the Hand-
Made. Gibbings and his friend, the late
Eric Gill, carried on the battle of
craftsman-versus-factory-hand which was
begun by William Morris.
But they'had to admit modifications.
It was all very well for Robert Gibbings
to produce books in the workshop in the
garden of his home at Reading, and
illustrate them with the woodcuts for
which he is famous, and which could be
put directly on paper without the inter-
vention of chemistry and machinery.
But the printing-press itself —was it
lovingly made by craftsmen? The work-
shop—was it an honest English construc-
tion of dowelled joints, or was it held
together by mass-produced nails?
Even this book, Over the Reefs, with
its 85 woodcuts, is a machine-job, made
in the garden-suburb of Letchworth, to
be sure, but still a machine-job. In his
noble essays on art and typography, Eric
Gill had to acknowledge the machine. It
was no longer possible to live the com-
plete life of the craftsman, in which
everything used, eaten and enjoyed was
beautifully hand-made for its purpose:
all the art-theorist could do was to see
that what the machine made was well-
designed and well-made.
But in Samoa there is no need for
such compromise. There the houses are
made by craftsmen of the tribes, who
take pride in their work, begin each new
home with a song and dance, and cele-
brate different stages of the building with
more songs and dancing. They nail
nothing with artificial nails; they tie the
house together with string, in lashings
which form beautiful designs. The string
is not any old bit of fishing-line, but is
made from fibres pounded and plaited by
the village maidens singing as they work.
The songs are not the sweepings of Tin
Pan Alley, but songs about legendary
ladies who were chased by Fijian chief-
tains in the guise of eels ... In Samoa
work and pleasure become one in art,
and life is a completely rounded cultural
pattern.
Perhaps it should be made clear that
these conclusions are only implicit in Mr.
Gibbings’s book, which sticks carefully
to a record of what he saw and heard;
and that he does not by any means
present himself as the queasy advocate
of the hand-loom and the morris-dance.
A very reserved gentleman he is, espe-
cially when little Sina interrupts an art-
discussion to ask pointedly: “When you
go to bed?”; and his writing has some-
thing of the stiffness of his woodcuts,
but is relieved by a cheerful, wooden-
faced humor, as in his despription of the
Samoan ganje of Kirikiti or Clicket, for
which he saw them making the balls from
the rubber-juices of the banyan tree;
Whereas in England, in matter of speed,
cricket competes 'with chess, in Samoa,
both in speed and entertainment, it is more
like a non-stop revue. Bowling is con-
tinuous. Even when a batsman is out, the
bowler continues his deliveries, and if the
next batsman is not there to defend his
wicket and it is hit, then he is out before
he is in. For that reason twp or three
batsmen sit at the position known in
England as point, ready to leap to the
wicket the moment it goes down.
In Samoa, Gibbings, almost 60, broad-
chested, bearded and handsome, was
stripped by three old women, anointed
with oil, wound in tapa cloth, hung with
flowers and bracelets of shining leaves,
and solemnly made chief of the village
and member of the royal family, of
Samoa by all the chiefs of the island,
who also conferred upon him the name
Tamafainga. From that moment his
word was law, and his slightest suggestion
a command, as he found that night.
I had inquired if nowadays they always
wore European dress when dancing. At a
fiefa given in my honor, Leiatua’s own
daughter, To’oa, the taupou (ceremonial
maiden) of the village, danced in the dress
of olden times.
He has carved a woodcut of the young
lady in lei and grass skirt, which does
not fail to suggest the dignity and quality
of the dancer:
It is well done, and fitting for a princess
Descended of so many royal kings,
Alas, when he gets back to Apia, full
of his new honor, he finds it hard to
impress his landlady and his acquaint-
ances. Moreover, Mr. Jack Ellis assures
him, with backing from his library of
Samoan history, that the thoughtful
chiefs, in choosing the name Tamafainga,
have named him after “the worst
cannibal Samoa has ever known,” a
“tyrannical monster, whose rapacious
grasp neither wives, daughters, nor
property escaped” ... The chapter of
this discovery, and Gibbings’s earnest
efforts to clear the reputation of his
namesake, is his wooden humor at its
best.
It was in Samoa, also, that a trader
took him home to his Samoan wife and
family, and showed him the “family
plant,” a pedigree “fourteen generations
direct from Henry VII, including six
earls, one duke, a bishop and four rec-
tors,” also “the gold signet ring of the
family and the copies of its armorial
bearings which he had compelled each of
his seven half-native sons to complete.”
And from the same box of old family
papers appeared a third verse to Steven-
son’s “Requiem”—“That’s a third verse
of the poem on his grave, but they didn’t
use it”:
Here shall the winds about me Mow.
Here the clouds shall come and go.
Here shall be peace for evermo’,
And the heart for aye shall be still.
Samoa seems to have given him most
pleasure; but the story is also of
Nukualofa, Tonga, Tokelau, Aitiitaki,
Raratonga, Mangaia, Manihiki, Penrhyn,
Tahiti and Anaa, between which he
travelled by schooner, noticing a custom
here, recording a legend there, and all the
time sketching and painting—fish-traps,
canoes, lakes, mountains and dwellings;
and it ends with an astonishing mono-
logue by Liii, at Papeete. Since he met
her during his previous visit to the islands
in 1929, Lili had been to London with
her husband, Johnny, and on the way
back she saw for the first time, at
Bombay, beggars lying in the roads and
supplicating alms: “And often now I
think of all those people who are sad
because they have not any food to eat,
and here in the islands we have so very
much for everyone, and so much happi-
ness.”
Impropaganda
It is doubtful whether Mr. Evan John
has improved upon the Canadian treason
trials by working them into a novel and
setting them in London —The Network,
or It Could Happen Here (Heinemann).
He assures us that all the characters
mentioned by name are actual persons,
and that pieces in italics are quotations
from the Report of the Royal Commis-
sion Appointed under Order in Council
P.C. 411 of February 5, 1946. Perhaps,
if Mr. John had appeared merely as
counsel to assist the Commission, he
might hawe made a good novel of it.
But his role is more that of counsel for
the prosecution: he is so keen to stigma-
tise his characters as traitors that from
the first he has no sympathy with them.
This is bad novelising. Treason is not
the act of mesmerised automatons.
McLaglen was great in The Informer be-
cause, from beginning to end, he held the
audience’s sympathy—with him, and
through him, they felt the temptation, the
shame and the disgust of treason.
Mr. John gives an excellent exposition
of the methods by which Government
clerks, editors of official journals, pro-
fessors and members of Parliament may
be argued into a belief that their country’s
loss is the world-State’s gain. But he does
not become convincing until, abandoning
his cold analytical picture of his own
countrymen, he presents a sympathetic
picture of the Russian clerk’s determina-
tion to make a break for British liberty.
Then, not merely because the clerk is
roaming London, assassins at his heels,
beseeching incredulous British officials
to listen to his exposure of the spy-net-
work, but also because he has been pre-
sented with sympathy and understand-
ing, the book achieves its only passage
of suspense.
White Horses.
Alight with their glow as they go,
The white horses
Pull on the road, with a wet cart loaded.
Mashing the kicked mud,
Under the cold rain’s slither.
Stitt they are white, still they are bright
forever,
They keep in the rain all their strained
And deep beauty. -
They disobey all the laws of greyness.
Yes, it is lucky
To see white horses tower,
And the eye steals, the heart feels their
power.
N.Z.
J. CAMERON SMITH.
For Children .
The Pixie O’Harris Story Book (Angus
and Robertson) is a revised edition of the
book first published in 1940; stories,
playlets and verse are delightfully written
and there are the author’s illustrations
in color.
Two by Leslie Rees, both from John
Sands Pty., Ltd., are Shadow the Rock
Wallaby and Mates of the Kurlalong.
The first, illustrated by Walter Cunning-
ham, is in the vein of Shy the Platypus
and the other familiar children’s books
by Leslie Rees of which the publishers
say they have sold over 250,000. Mates
of the Kurlalong is a more ambitious
story, the length of a short novel, in
which a wombat, a giraffe, a sea-bear
and a chimpanzee steal a ferry on Syd-
ney Harbor, man»on its crew on Pinchgut
and have adventures which would ( a)
please youngsters, ( b ) gratify by the
familiar place-names anyone with a
proper interest in the Harbor, and (c) very
much surprise wombats, giraffes, bears
and chimpanzees.
Also from John Sands is The Rainbow
Painter, written and colorfully illustrated
by Esme E, Bell, which has to do with
an elderly gentleman who lives in a hol-
low gum-tree and spends his time gather-
ing wildflowers to make paint to paint
rainbows, a task in which he is assisted
by owls, turtles and rabbits.
The Silver Bone, by W. L. Williams
(Whitcombe and Tombs), illustrated in
black-and-white by Dick Ovenden, is a
longish tale about a dog who goes in
search of the Silver Bone and, while
searching, meets most inhabitants of the
bush near Melbourne. The author writes
lively light verse, and, when he records
that in the store kept by Bill Bull-ant a
row of alarm-clocks bears the notice “Do
not expect tick here; a refusal often
offends,” he shows a sense of humor
quite as lively and possibly as alarming
as his alarm-clocks.
Two from Longmans, from what is
called the “Heritage of Books” series,
are Wide Horizons and All Sorts of
Delights. Both are anthologies, with an
imposing array of authors, including in
Wide Horizons Halliday Sutherland,
Hardy, Bridges, Dickens, Wells and
James Jean's; and in All Sorts of De-
lights Walter de la Mare, Lewis Carroll,
George Eliot and Henry Williamson.
Both are admirable collections for the
child old enough to understand a trip
to the moon with James Jeans, a play
entitled “Maggie Runs Away” made out
of The Mill oh the Floss, or an article
on the breeding of silkworms.
The Journey of the Stamp Animals,
by Phyllis Hay (Georgian House), illus-
trated in color by Rosamond Stokes,
takes four of the animals which appear
on Australian stamps—Basil the Emu,
Misery the Sheep, Yo-Yo the Kangaroo
and Gently the Koala —and sends them
on a journey to the Land of the Rainbow
Animals, where there are mauve sheep
and green koalas —phantasmagoria which
one seems to have seen somewhere
before, though not in literature —and
where everyone can at last get a meal
of the color of the stamp from which
he came; which, it appears, is the only
soil of tucker a Stamp Animal can digest.
Caskie Woods, another Georgian
House book, by T. Nicolson, owes a
debt —no doubt unwittingly incurred—to
Hugh McCrae: for it was McCrae, in a
story once printed in Coast to Coast,
who let loose the fantasy about the bloke
who swallowed a whistle which, ever
after, whistled when he coughed. T.
Nicolson’s postman goes further, how-
ever,,and carries with him, on his rounds
among the animals of Caskie Woods, a
doorknocker and a spare doorbell, in
case he has a cold and can’t cmigh
his whistle. Illustrated by Harold Freed-
man, Caskie Woods sends a small boy
off into the night where, escorted by a
rabbit, he has adventures with everything
from goats to gipsies—“Seventeen of
them, and all covered with pistols, knives
and red handkerchiefs round their necks.”
Well-written and quietly humorous.


The Bulletin
Vo!. 70—No. 3602
Wednesday, February 23, 1-949
ALL IN FOR THEIR KICK.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Map"
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H, Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
FOREIGN POLICY.
The debate on foreign policy in the
House of Representatives should, in the
eyes of the Minister for External Affairs,
have cleared the way for a return over-
seas to his new spiritual home. Two
things stand out from the debate. They
are:
(1) That this Government has no foreign
policy for Australia but support for the
so-called United Nations; and
(2) That Dr. Evatt invites us to accept
the “United” Nations as a body which is
not only gaining authority, but is doing so
despite its inability to. command any inter-
national force to compel compliance with
its orders. The failure of the old League
of Nations from this defect conveys to this
Government no lessons whatever.
Add to these points that the Australian
Government is animated by sentiments of
friendship with the United States and of
nebulous co-operation with the British
Commonwealth, and all that Dr. Evatt
expounded in'two speeches might have
earned polite applause for some earnest
novice participating in a School of Arts
debate.
Mr. Menzies’ scornful comments
on the Minister’s opening speech
brought Dr. Evatt at the last to
admit that he thought the Russian
blockade of Berlin contained the seeds
of war. In his opening address he had
no more serious condemnation of it than
that the blockade was “an absurd physical
embargo.” The same reluctance to offend
the gangsters in the Kremlin —those en-
thusiastic legatees of Hitler’s ferocious
system—led Dr. Evatt, despite all his
simulated passion for “human rights,” to
declare that he knew nothing of Russian
slave-camps, though he must have heard
in Paris the indictment on this offence de-
livered in U.N.O. Assembly by the British
Under-Secretary for Foreign Affairs,
and at least have heard of the same
delegate’s reiteration of the charge before
the Social and Economic Council in New
York.
He had nothing to say about his
intervention, as president of U.N.O.
Assembly, with a suggestion that if Russia
were to lift the gratuitous blockade of
Berlin the Western Powers ought to save
Moscow’s “face” by conceding something
to the Kremlin gang. At home, as
abroad, apparently, these ruffians are
merely “political philosophers” in the
eyes of this Government. As Mr.
Menzies declared, the Soviet blockade of
Berlin is an act of war, and only the ex-
emplary patience of the Western Powers
has prevented war ensuing months ago
as a result.
Dr. Evatt has quarrelled with half of
his “diplomatic corps” because he either
lets them down, as he did one of
them in Tokyo, or directs a policy which
(as another of them said in disgusted
resignation) “changes its plumage in mid-
flight” and is generally of “a larrikin
strain” ; or, having created a huge staff
to do his service abroad, he then follows
them overseas to do it for himself. He
treats Australia’s relationships with
foreign countries as though he were ad-
ministering a domain of which he is the
personal proprietor, and U.N.O, as a sort
of dog he has adopted which no man
shall disparage. As Mr. Menzies said,
he has been encouraging Asiatic
antagonism against all European nations
while a brother Minister, apparently
eager to share what kudos accrues from
Caucus for this line, is whipping
up a specific Asiatic resentment against
White Australia. After absence abroad
for most of this Parliament, Dr. Evatt
urged at a press conference on
his return, as his recipe for world peace,
the cultivation of sentiments for “a world
brotherhood,” except, presumably, with
the Dutch. And he calls all this the inter-
pretation of Australia’s foreign policy!
The Chifley Government’s foreign
policy, it is now made clear by Dr. Evatt
and Mr. Calwell, is composed simply of
belief in U.N.O. and hatred of the Dutch.
Dr. Evatt discoursed on the affair of the
“Indernesian comrades” without once
meeting the charge—for three long years
he has ignored it —that his Government
meekly accepted its anti-Dutch policy,
from the Communist-run Watersiders’
Federation in Australia. The ban on
Dutch shipping since 1945 has been a
grossly unneutral offence to our nearest
white neighbors on our Asian marches,
and has placed Australia completely out
of court as any sort of arbitrator in the
Java dispute. Similarly he skirted around
the Palestine case without mentioning that
the Jews had met every U.N.O. resolu-
tion with defiance, terrorist violence, and
finally war against the Arab League, and,
for good measure, in contempt of Dr.
Evatt’s U.N.0., they assassinated its
representative and plenipotentiary, Count
Bernadette. U.N.O.’s only reaction was
to appease this bellicose mob by abandon-
ing Bernadotte’s considered recommenda-
tions for a just settlement. Bernadotte
was done to death by a gunman who
went scot-free, and Dr. Evatt gets a Jewish
forest named after him.
Henceforth if Dr. Evatt’s U.N.O.
Assembly lays down as policy for Aus-
tralia —and by the way newly-spawned
“nations” are swarming into the .member-
ship the thing is not unlikely—that
The White Australia policy shall be
ebandoned,
British Empire trade preferences shall be
condemned as discriminatory, and
New Guinea peoples shall be given in-
dependence—
then it is clear, according to Dr. Evatt,
that Australia will simply have to con-
form. For a responsible Minister of the
Crown who does not recognise an act
of war when he sees it, and whose readi-
ness to excuse the Kremlin gangsters
must confirm their theory that for the
disarmed pacifist there will always be a
Munich, there can (as Dr. Evatt admits
himself) be' no alternative but dutiful
compliance with any orders that U.N.O.
may issue.
Moreover, the political creed thus
formed is so beautifully simple. There
is no need to have any foreign policy
at all, and the Minister for External
Affairs will be free to roam the world
with no more care for old-fashioned re-
sponsibilities of office than for the ex-
pense of his travels. As the late Jan
Masaryk said, the job of Australian
Foreign Minister was the cushiest he
could imagine.
Of a foreign policy as any European
Government understands it. Dr. Evatt
has nothing to offer. He has no supreme
objective which in the last resort the
nation’s arms will uphold, because his
Government has no armed services worth
a rap. His Government has only two con-
victions ; one, shared by no European
State, that U.N.O. is infallible, and the
other, that compulsory socialisation of
all Australian energies and resources —
except for national defence, where com-
pulsion is anathema—is the way to spread
peace and prosperity.
Australian “Labor” does not believe in
the British Empire, or in military service
to make for strength of the Empire’s
diplomacy in peace, or in the extension of
Empire trade under merchants’ enterprise
(the only way it can be extended) or, in
fact, any private enterprise at all. It
does not believe in “colonialism.” It does
not even believe in a monarchy.
The one constructive# achievement
of Our Foreign Policy has been
to get Dr. Evatt. made president of
U.N.O. Assembly; and its develop-
ment as an instrument of Australian
national purpose depends on any oppor-
tunity for publicity, or perhaps any bolt-
hole of escape, which Dr, Evatt can dis-
tinguish in or from some heated ventila-
tion of international differences which in
the U.N.O. forum passes for debate.
This dangerous fooling must end. A
national foreign policy demands a founda-
tion more solid and enduring than the
whims of some party temporarily in
power, or some majority vote in the cos-
mopolitan hot-air chamber of the Dis-
united Nations. An all-party Parliamen-
tary Committee of Foreign Affairs to
keep foreign policy under Parliamentary
review is a crying necessity in Australia
from every aspect. If the Liberal and
Country parties at the coming elections
give an undertaking to establish such a
committee it will receive strong support
from the electorate.
Socialisation and the Snowy.
The Great Dailies rarely show any
anxiety to take swabs when Canberra
provides a “special news-story,” especially
if the word “defence” figures in it any-
where. But at least a case of ringing-in
seems to be involved in the Common-
wealth’s scheme for harnessing the Snowy
River and the Murrumbidgee. The story
was released to a startled world one
morning last week by the “Sydney
Morning Herald” under a huge heading:
“Vast Plan for Defence —Bomb-proof
Area in N.S.W. Interior.”
It appeared that one of Mr. Chifley’s
Ministers, appropriately named Lemmon,
had announced that, “after a conference,
Federal, N. S. Wales and Victorian
Ministers had agreed on a plan for the
diversion of the Snowy River waters.”
Mr. Lemmon said his plan “involves the
creation in the Australian Alps of a pro-
duction area which will be protected
against atom-bombs,” while he averred
also that, at the same time, “in eight years
this diversion would double the water
available for the Murrumbidgee irriga-
tion area,” and make available “a very
large amount of cheap electric power.”
Mr. Lemmon explained that the whole
business was “linked with a great defence
plan” recommended by Sir Henry Tizard,
the “plan” being considered “urgent be-
cause most of Australia’s key industries
and munition factories had previously to
be established close to the coast, as they
needed vast quantities of power which
came from coal.” Now the problem was
to be solved by hydroelectric generation.
Ministers, it seemed, were told that the
Snowy River scheme would be a “vital
link in the defence plan for the Pacific to
protect Australia.”
The “S. M. Herald’s” contemporary,
the “Daily Telegraph,” was more specific.
The scheme will take 25 years to com-
plete. It will cost, in its perfect materiali-
sation, £166 million, with an extra £l9
million if it is decided to drain the last
drop of Snowy River water into the Mur-
rumbidgee. There will be 20 hydro-
electric stations, and their production of
power will be 1,500,000 kilowatts, or
nearly as much power as is already pro-
duced in Australia, saving about
3,500,000 tons of N. S. Wales black coal
a year. Tunnels miles long figure in the
blueprint; millions of acre-feet of water
are to be pent up. Australia will be
rendered safe —if all the hydroelectric
employees don’t go on strike with the
same regularity as the coalminers —in 25
years from date, under a plan which has
emanated from the genius of Mr,
Lemmon and colleagues, and which no
atom-bomb can reach because all the
electric stations will be “far from the
coast, dispersed” and buried under-
ground, along with the gigantic munition
works, the key industries, the immense
defences, Mr. Lemmon and all the other
vital accessories to Australian protection.
It might have been expected that some-
body would have pointed out that the
plan was not a new one —that its details
had been a subject for controversy,
statistics and all, for a long time. It might
have become a subject for speculation as
to why, in the present hair-trigger situa-
tion of the world, the Government was
bothering about a defence scheme of
which the first-fruits would not be avail-
able for a period of at least eight years—
indeed, if the experience of Sydney Grav-
ing Dock and other urgent works is any
criterion, possibly for 16 years and at a
cost three times the original enormous
estimate.
It might also well have become a matter
for inquiry why, if safety from bombing
was the first element in the choice of an
area, secrecy as .to the purpose of the
works was not observed. The open frank-
ness of Mr, Lemmon about the location
and nature of the enterprise on which he
proposed to embark obviously served
notice on an enemy which has hordes of
spies and active agents in the country, of
where to look, what to look for and what
to plan for, and of the need to concen-
trate, in plans for hamstringing this
country, on sabotage of the dam-building
and tunnelling project and upon the best
method of destroying them should Com-
munist opposition be defeated.
The method of control of the scheme
has not been decided on, but some-
thing “national” in basis like the Ten-
nessee Valley in the United States appeals
to Federal Ministers. Despite the fact
that Mr. McGirr is still determined that
his State shall be the “chief constructing
authority,” subject to further discussion
with Mr. Chifley, the “S, M. Herald”
learned at the week-end that “the
Federal Government will proceed with
the scheme as an urgent defence priority
whether the N.S.W. Government agrees
to the Commonwealth Construction Com-
mission or not.” The Commonwealth
Commission will “undertake all the
work.” And there have been bare
and unobtrusive mentions of the use of
the Supply and Development Act which
was brought forward as a “defence” mea-
sure last year.
It was here pointed out when that
prickly and loaded piece of legislation was
brought down that it was not a genuine
defence measure; that it was virtually a
bill to allow the Canberra Government to
socialise the country in peace-time under
the pretext that it was acting to provide
defence, which the majority of the trade-
unions which form the corpus of the Aus-
tralian Labor party have no intention of
allowing it to implement.
In this case what the Government
obviously intends to do is to take over a
large area of southern N. S, Wales,
develop it along totalitarian lines on
the vague pretext that in eight to
25 years it will provide the machinery for
the defence of the Pacific. Operating
under the Act, if it is allowed to proceed,
it can conceal costs of the enterprise,
conceal even the names of those involved
in it, give contracts without calling for
tenders, decide who shall live in the area
and who shall not, require any informa-
tion which it needs from any inhabitant,
censor all correspondence on the ground
of security, give priority *to labor and
material for the area—and, in the present
state of supplies for building and man-
power, it will be forced to do so to carry
out the project this side of the new
century.
In fact, the Government has the means
to create a totalitarian enclave ruled from
Canberra, provided the States and the
public do not succeed in guarding their
interests and rights and establishing now
a definition of where “defence” actually
begins within the meaning of the Supply
and Development Act, and where the
rights of sovereign States and inhabitants
of a region end.
There might not be so much suspicion
of this scheme if it were not put forward
by a Government in whose background
there is the bank-nationalisation pro-
gramme, T.A.A., the Commonwealth
shipping scheme, the Broadcasting
Control Board, the gross inflation
of the civil service, the internment
of innocent Australia-Firsters, the
unusual preferences to Metropolitan
Cement companies, submission to Com-
munist policy and flagrant inaction in the
face of “political” strikes designed to
interfere with defence efficieney, with the
working of the British system of gov-
ernment and the continuance of free
enterprise. This Ministry has even put
Communist Central Committee members
on the boards which govern vital indus-
tries.
The scheme might be taken at more
like its face value if it were not
sponsored by a Government which at this
very moment has allowed a crisis to de-
velop in Newcastle, obviously the result
of a wicked scheme of Communist
sabotage applied on the flimsiest of pre-
texts, to endanger the operations of the
Broken Hill Proprietary, upon which the
whole of the immediate basic defence pro-
duction of Australia depends. And
preparations for “push-button” warfare
would sound more assuring if there were
any indication that the Government was
doing something now to train and equip
even a solid nucleus of fighting forces.
Nobody will oppose hydroelectric de-
velopment of large and suitable regions
of Australia. But the development should
be regional and the control as localised
as possible. One of the arguments for
the creation of a new State in the south-
western corner of N. S. Wales has been
the neglect of that area and the need for
local people to control it, so that they
can enforce the use of their resources.
Canberra’s Snowy River “defence
plan” looks very much like another wedge
of the Socialist offensive—a substitute,
perhaps, for the uniform-rail-gauge “full-
employment” provider, and a means of
carrying out “Labor’s” socialisation plat-
form directly against the spirit and in-
tention of the Constitution by subterfuge
and by a deliberate misuse of the defence
powers. ,
Our Female Champions.
Just before she left Australia to return
to hefr native Holland, that grand sports-
woman Fanny Blankers-Koen predicted
“a bright future for Australian women
athletes,” adding that “your sprinters,
hurdlers and jumpers are the best in the
world.” True enough, and it shows how
out of evil cometh good, for there can
be no doubt that the training our women
of all ages have had to go through in
the past few years has fitted them tor
eminence in the athletic field.
Since the beginning of this decade our
women have been carrying weights—-in
string-bags and suitcases, sprinting tor
trams and buses or to dodge traffic, run-
ning relay-races from stores to homes,
hurdling obstacles in the rush to get
scarce commodities, jumping over each
other to get a tram-seat before some man
gets it, and generally performing athletic
feats from daylight to dark, both m the
home and out. .
All this naturally improves speed, wind
and stamina. Add to that the toughening-
up process of early-morning rushes whe
a house or fiat is advertised for Jetting,
of living in one room with a fam
cooking in the backyard when gas and/or
electricity cuts out,' shadow-sparring i
preparation for the happy day when some
foolish inspector calls to see *ey
been using gas or electricity in defian
of the men who make the stuff.. a£ u |
with husbands who seem to think tne
cost of living is their fault.
No wonder the older daughters and
younger sisters of this ® ener tto
are strong and speedy. They ve Al f? l fhe
be or they’re not in the race. An
girl-children of these women,
from their mothers the speed and athlet
cism of the times, surrounded on all
sides by the examples of |
hattline determined elder gins wi y,
only the country can keep t(s wo“ e “ 3
their present condition Austre»ouM
clean-up every temale even at the M«
Olympic Games, even if it kills mousanu
of women in the process.


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Jungle Inquiry.
The inquiry into E. J. Ward’s administra-
tion, as related to New Guinea timber
and Swedish typewriters, began on Feb.
1 and looks like going well into March,
if it doesn’t indeed see that month out.
It is being conducted by Justice Ligert-
wood, from Adelaide, with J. W. Shand,
K.C., as counsel assisting him.
The commission has broken new ground.
For one thing, it came out that H. G. For-
shaw, logging manager for Hancock and
Gore, Ltd.—the concern which paid a
deposit of £12,500 and another of
£37,500 to Edward Farrell, of the Farrell-
Parer-Garden (2) syndicate, because, as it
thought, John Smith (“Jock”) Garden had
got it a Bulolo Valley timber concession
from Ward, as Minister for External
Territories—had accepted £4OOO as “an
interest-free loan” from Farrell after that
gentlemaln pocketed the Hancock-and-
Gore money. Also that Hancock and
Gore gave Forshaw £4OOO for repayment
to Farrell just before he was to give evi-
dence in the conspiracy case against that
worthy and his associates, who were
acquitted—on the score of illness, Farrell
did not figure in the dock, and the pro-
ceedings against him were withdrawn.
The Forshaw-Farrell business, when
divulged, led to the resignation, as Han-
cock and Gore directors, of William
Glasgow, that grand Old Digger general,
and Brisbane solicitor E. R. Crouch, the
preference shareholders’ representative on
the board, neither of whom had liked the
little they knew of the Bulolo Valley
affair and the association with “Jock”
Garden. And the thing will very likely
lead to an appeal against the conviction
of the Communists’ former secretary, now
serving a three years’ sentence for forgery
of Forshaw’s signature to a letter
addressed to Ward, on the ground that it
amounted to material evidence withheld
from the jury. One of the Hancocks was
driven to admit that if the jury had been
informed of the deal it might have
brought in a different verdict, since Gar-
den’s defence was that he had had For-
shaw’s authority to sign for Forshaw.
Writing to Biggs, Farrell’s solicitor,
J, J. Lynn, declared that he had “satis-
fied” himself “as to J. S. Garden’s
authority to sign on behalf of the Minis-
try” ; and sign Garden did, “E. J. Ward,
per J. S. Garden,” in a letter, dated
November 20, 1945, purporting to grant
the Bulolo Valley concession to the
Farrell-Garden syndicate. When shown
this document by Forshaw two years
afterv/ards. Ward said to Garden “I never
gave you authority to sign my name” ;
and, according to the evidence, none of
the parties concerned in the handing-out
of the £50,000 ever bothered to ascer-
tain at the fountain-head whether or not
this was the case.
To the end of the second week Farrell
had, as it were, been the mystery man
of the inquiry. Biggs had alleged that
Farrell was convicted on a false-pretences
charge in the ’twenties, and had tried to
work a timber swindle in the ’thirties.
Lynn said Farrell had told him that the
£50,000 had been or was to be divided
into five shares of £lO,OOO each, though
distributions among the four members of
the syndicate had varied ; and there had
been another variation; for example,
£16,000 was said to have been paid to
Garden, £9OOO to Parer and £lO,OOO to
Mrs. Ward.
Farrell came into the royal-commission
picture last Thursday. For months he
had, from time to time, been seen about
Sydney, and for a week or more he had
been under police surveillance, apparently
authorised because he had indirectly
notified the commission that he was with-
drawing from the inquiry, being so sick.
Disobeying a subpoena, he was arrested
on warrant. Justice Ligertwood under-
took to let three doctors examine him
and to take his evidence in Chambers,
if their report warranted that course;
but insisted that he would like “a candid
statement” from a person because of
whose activity “£50,000 of shareholders’
money has disappeared.” The three
doctors agreed that Farrell was fit to
testify.
A cryptic reference to the Durcher
purchase may, perhaps, be interestingly
followed up before the inquiry ends. And
people studying the ways of government
under the Labor regime must have noted
the reply of Biggs to Ward’s counsel —
yes, Ward’s counsel—that it was in no
wise strange to him that Farrell and
Garden had had the use of three depart-
ments, with Government letter-paper and
other services, for their private concerns
External Affairs, Labor and National
Service and Army Inventions Directorate,
one of whose employees admits having
borrowed £2OO from Farrell, though he
says he repaid it. Possibly because of a
fellow-feeling for the U.S.S.R., Garden
and Ward “had morning and afternoon
tea in Ward’s office” (Mr, Shand) and
people used to queue up outside Garden’s
office (Labor and National Service, Hol-
loway, Minister) on External Territories
(Ward) business. Those days will not
return, though the chaos and the waste
remain,
"Education," Dedman-style.
When J. T. Lang lately drew the atten-
tion of the Federal Parliament to three
“discussion-posters” put out by the Com-
monwealth Education Office and alleged
that their tone was “Communistic” it
was not the first time the accusation of
Leftish bias had been levelled against the
publications of this back-alley annexe of
Mr. Dedman’s Department of Miscon-
struction.
Last October Mr. Abbott brought to
the Minister’s notice a poster purporting
to give a picture of internal politics in
the United States. It included a cartoon
depicting a bald-headed man, complete
with horn-rimmed spectacles and cigar
—the figure customarily used in “Labor”
and Communist publications to represent
“Big Business” —pulling strings attached
to diagrams labelled “contracts,” “con-
cessions,” “jobs” and so on. The picture
was explained thus:
Behind the scenes, the political bosses —
financed by big business or by machines of
their creation —control party distribution of
Government jobs and contracts. Their
“protection” ensures the party loyalty of
many voters and candidates.
In the course of a debate on the subject
Mr. Dedman expressed regret for the
issuing of the poster and undertook to
withdraw it. He described it as “a slight
error of judgment” and said it was not
representative of discussion-posters as
SAME DIFFERENCE.
“Mr. Dedman said in the Representatives that the ‘Labor’ Government had no intention
of nationalising the Australian shipping industry."
"We've no intention of taking over your ship; but unless you steer just where
we and the unions say we’ll cut your capitalistic throat."
a whole —the tone of these being “objec-
tive.”
The purpose of these posters is to place
before the people certain problems affecting
Australia, upon the solution of which the
future welfare of this country will, to a
great degree, depend.
Later he said:
If we do not have an educated people
those who support reactionary policies in
relation to Governments generally will
continue to get the ear of the people,
and that the Opposition knew that
the more the people are educated about the
problems that all Governments have to face
the more likely are the people to support
the Labor Government, which has done
such a good job.
The three posters at present under
notice are concerned with Yugoslavia,
Malaya and the White Australia policy.
In the first, superimposed on a map of
the Balkans, are what Lang called “glamor
portraits of two Communist thugs”—in
more polite language, photographs of
General Zhdanov and Marshal Tito —
and a picture of happy workers in a
railway-construction gang, foremost
among them and swinging a sledge-
hammer a young girl with thighs like a
champion wrestler, who is presumably
typical of “Yugoslavia Today,” the title
of the poster. The “objective” letter-
press gives, as fact, the Tito version of
the Mihailovich story—and no other
version—states that Tito “is not a Moscow
nominee” (a palpable lie), and paints a
glowing though uncorroborated picture
of Yugoslavia’s progress under Tito.
The “objective” discussion-poster on
Malaya suggests that “it is unwise care-
lessly to dismiss the unrest as Communist-
inspired” and asks “why is British
authority being maintained so definitely?”
in that part of the world. It stresses the
importance to Australia of friendship
with the “ultimate rulers” of Malaya.
That last remark links it in spirit with
the “White Australia” poster, which has
been reproduced in the daily papers of
most State capitals, and which depicts
a rather peculiar version of a court scene
with the world as Judge, Australia in
the dock and seven Asiatic gentlemen of
assorted shades in the jury-box. The
case “for” and “against” is stated —
“objectively,” of course—and the screed
concludes: “The case rests —what is your
verdict?” The verdict of the jury of
seven would not be hard to guess.
Mr, Dedman’s claim that the purpose
of the posters is “to get people to think”
is probably true, but a close study of
any of the series that deal with foreign
affairs or home politics suggests inevitably
that the full purpose is to get them to
think along certain definite lines —at the
best along lines approximating closely
to the Canberra Socialists’ “policy”; at
the worst along paths indistinguishable
from the Communist-party line.
It is time the whole set-up of this
unnecessary department a hangover
from the Army Education Service, which
did some good work when it kept off
politics, but which often laid itself open
to the same charges as are now brought
against its successor—was closely investi-
gated. It is’ a fair question to ask what
sort of return the community, as distinct
from the “Labor” party and the Com-
munists, is getting for this large outlay
of public money —in the last Estimates
a sum of £441,000 was provided.
The "Philosophers" Again.
Once again the Communists who work
their destructive will with Australian in-
dustry have jeopardised output from the
B.H.P, steelworks. There never was a
more disgraceful strike than that over
the case—with no loss of pay or “vic-
timisation” entailed—of the young loco-
motive-driver of a coal-skin train in Lamb-
ton colliery who had been involved in
three serious accidents, one of which re-
suited in the death of a man.
Because thev resented an Arder
.cXWw" te
Mines that the engine-driver should
a° term P ‘to "mineS' eST
a strike at all B.H.P. collieries. BH.P
was in the act of shutting down by last
week-end when a hasty settlement on
terms-too hasty for some of the strikers,
though looking extremely like surrender
again to the miners’ bosses arrested the
process,
Incidentally Mr. Menzies can if he
chooses, claim the last laugh over the
“Pig-iron Bob” campaign The Tas-
manian “Labor” Government is trying to
import steel from Japan!
The “settlement” in the B.H.P. case is
likely to prove no more than temporary
j n the miners’ executive’s war against the
community. The steelworks have for long
been able to run at only 60 per cent
capacity, because of the coal shortage, and
the working-level has since December
been reduced to 40 per cent. Mr. Chifley
merely wrings his hands and calls it
“lamentable.” It is “lamentable” not
only because by petty stoppages the
miners are, as a matter of union policy,
limiting output to subsistence coal rations
for the community, but also because there
is an immense volume of coal—pillar
coal, left in great masses as much as 32
feet high—which could be got out ex-
peditiously by machinery. The miners
will not allow this to be done, and the
N.S.W. Minister, Baddeley, who supports
them, can prevent, and has persistently
prevented, this pillar-coal being got out
by the means which every expert has
advised.
Mr. Chifley was asked in Parliament
last Thursday if he would persuade
Baddeley to join him in getting this pillar-
coal—nearly 160,000,000 tons of it in the
Cessnock area alone—rapidly extracted
by machinery. The Chifley answer was
that he and “Fixer” Ashley, the respon-
sible Federal Minister, had repeatedly
“discussed” this, and he would discuss it
again. Is it credible he didn’t know
that a week previously the Miners’
Council had flatly refused the Joint
Coal Board’s demand for the machine-
working of these great standing blocks
of coal?
Retribution is coming upon political
“Labor.” Last September Chifley and
Ashley told the miners in pithead ad-
dresses that their “darg” on coal output
would smash the “Labor” Government,
and the showdown will come this election
year. A coal-famine for next winter
is a certainty: a day without power each
fortnight at least is already a necessity
in Sydney, which, even so, will be hit
less hard than Melbourne and Adelaide.
And now the miners’ executive has in-
formed the Joint Coal Board that hence-
forth its Federation members will not
work in the mines for any inducement
such as double or treble pay on either
holidays or “back”-Saturdays. It is only
by this union’s “concession” to the public
that coal supplies have been maintained
even on a ration level during the past
two years.
Step Forward at Armidale.
Whatever else it has achieved, the New-
State conference at Armidale (N.S.W.)
has proved to interested people in
northern N.S.W. and the New-Staters in
North Queensland and Riverina that the
movement is alive and kicking. It would
also appear to have begun the conversion
of Sydney “Herald” to approval of the
scheme.
A draft constitution for the State of
New England is drawn up, providing
for an Assembly of 40 members
and a Council of 24, and for
the boundary of the new State to run
along the existing Queensland border to
about 60 miles west of Goodooga, thence
roughly south to Beemery on the Darling,
south of east to about Gwabegar, then
almost due south between Coonamble and
Baradine to Merrygoen, then making a
bow up through Bundella and down near
Gulgong, thence s.-e. to the coast about
half-way between Gosford and Newcastle.
This is the area recommended by the
Royal Commission on New States in
1933-34, and the movers obviously intend
to have Newcastle as their first big port.
Properly handled, the consent of New-
castle to inclusion in New England
shouldn’t be hard to get, since there is a
widespread conviction in that city that it
suffers deliberate restraint from Sydney,
in preferential rail-freights and in other
things. On the other hand, New England
will take in the big coalfields of the
Hunter district. New England cannot be
created except by consent of the people
in the area, and right there coal and
politics come into the picture.
The Liberal party, which is taking an
interest in the New-State movement,
took the trouble to analyse the political
color of State electorates within the pro-
posed New England State. In the 20 years
from 1927 to 1947 the Country party has
consistently dominated the voting, and
the combined non-“ Labor” vote, even in
the last three State elections when there
was a swing to “Labor,” has outweighed
“Labor.” In this New England area
would come the new Federal seats of
Gwydir, Cowper, Richmond, New Eng-
land, Kendall, Paterson, Newcastle,
Shortland, Hunter and a snippet of
Robertson. On a reasonable assumption,
non-“ Labor” should win seven of them.
Are the coalminers likely to vote them-
selves out of a “Labor” State into a non-
“ Labor” one? Would they and their
Communist leaders willingly consent to a
decentralisation move that would, in the
long run, reduce their power to hold the
country to ransom?
However, it is doubtful if the New-
Staters or the people of northern N.S.W.
as a whole are in any mood to put up
with opposition from the Miners’ Federa-
tion. The “Decentralisation and New
State Movement,” which called last
week’s conference, is “non-party, is in
earnest, and has much influential back-
ing.” It also has the open support of
every thoughtful Australian, for, aside
from party politics altogether, most
people are concerned about the concen-
trations of population in the existing
State capitals, the stagnation and depopu-
lation of country districts and the failure
of the existing States to check these evils.
A great many people are also concerned
about the steady centralisation of power
in Canberra and the obvious intention of
(i Continued at foot of next page.)


6434 E-R
There is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVEN"A~
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
df
df
our present rulers to increase it. The
creation of new States, in the light of our
own and American history, is clearly the
way to halt centralisation and give Aus-
tralian development a new lease of life.
Lastly, and by no means least, the
addition, by reconstruction, of new
States would provide the healthiest means
of reforming the Federal Senate, would
correct the botch of it which the en-
largement by the Chifley Government s
Act is about to perpetrate, and would
give an impetus towards making it a
States’ House as the founders of Federa-
tion intended.
■ -• '
POLITICAL POINTS
If the hallmark of a good diplomat is
ability to parry questions Anthony Eden
scores full points. At the Sydney Lord
Mayoral reception a Bulletin man fired
one at him. Eden seized the lapel of the
questioner’s suit—a new one, surprisingly
for a Bulletin scribe —and remarked
“That’s a very nice cloth. Locally made?”
It was, but the bloke’s own question is
still unanswered.
Calwell’s automatic response to any
attack is to lash out madly in all direc-
tions. With one notable exception—at the
moment quiescent—he has the most offen-
sive tongue in Canberra. At the week-
end he lashed out at Menzies “and all
those who question the wisdom of the
White Australia policy.” No one of
importance in Australia has questioned
it; that is merely Calwell’s way
of twisting the motives of all who have
protested against his attempt to deport
Mrs. O’Keefe. These he labels “silly senti-
mentalists” or “cynical and greedy capi-
talists.” In which category he places his
own Archbishop, whose claims to a
Cardinal’s hat he was urging a couple
of years ago, Calwell does not state.
Giving half-hearted and belated sup-
port to incentive-payments, the Prime
Minister said that such payments must
bear a relation to increased profits earned
as a result of increased production;
It was not sufficient for a worker to receive
a substantial wage-increase as a result of a
bonus scheme if that increase was not
proportionate to the rise in production and
profits.
Fair enough, but if the 10 per cent, wage
increase given in effect by the 40-hour
week had been worked on a basis “pro-
portionate to the rise in production and
profits” most “workers” would have had
to hand something back.
Hitherto, when Menzies made one of
his telling speeches in the House, the
“Labor” way was to put Ward up to
release a torrent of abuse, half-truths, and
“Labor” - Socialist - Communist propa-
ganda. With Ward unavailable, his
mantle fell upon the unfortunate Beazley
(Fremantle), and the poor young man
rushed in where no other “Labor” “angel”
was game to tread. He should have had
more sense. Nobody can understudy
Ward, still less tackle Menzies on foreign
affairs. While Menzies spoke the House
and galleries were full. Ten minutes after
Beazley began “Dilly-dally” Daly called
the Speaker’s attention to the empty
House. Beazley spent valuable time
in personal abuse of Menzies and
was obviously floundering ajt the finish,
A pity—some people were inclined to
think Beazley a young man of promise.
Under the heading “Chifley’s Rebuff to
Lab. Cncl.” Sydney “Sun” ran a Can-
berra item reporting that the Prime
Minister had refused to reconsider his
appointment of Mr. L. B. Fanning as
chairman of the Broadcasting Control
Board. The Trades and Labor Council
had demanded that the job should go to
Mr. R. A. King, one of its members. The
“Suri” referred to the rejected nominee
as Mr. Bob Kink. Presumably the com-
positors will take the blame; to Chif.
the only people “off the beam” are hostile
members of the Opposition.
During the past few months in prepar-
ing for the election the Federal Liberal
party has (a) taken over the war-time
advertising agents of the “Labor” party and
( b ) the war-time publicity officer of Mr.
McKell, who is to become publicity
adviser to Mr. Menzies, The appoint-
ment of Mr. Arthur Calwell as Minister
for Information in the next Liberal
Cabinet seems a foregone conclusion.
The conference at Armidale (N.S.Wt) to
set up a new State of New England over-
looked one thing. What color will it be
on those school atlases which show the
continent, with the different States in
green, red, yellow, etc.? Red is unthink-
able, yellow is more appropriate to the
Canberra area, green suggests rawness,
blue is for misery. Maybe, in view of
the make-up of the early settlers on the
Northern Rivers and the Tableland, it
ought to be tartan.
Defending Humpty-Dumpty Dunstan
at Leongatha (Vic.) last Wednesday,
C.P.-leader McDonald made the remark
“Every man who becomes a politician is
more or less an intriguer.” The Oxford
Dictionary derives “intriguer” from the
verb “intrigue,” for which it gives as
one meaning:
To carry ori underhand plotting or schem-
ing ; to employ secret influence for the
accomplishment of designs;
If that is what McDonald had in mind
and he considers all politicians do it
then why is he so upset over the doings
of Hollway and the breakaway Country-
party men? Unless, of course, he was
thinking of the other current meaning
the Oxford gives: “To carry on a secret
amour or illicit intimacy; to have a
liaison.”
As an aftermath of the British Board
of Trade inquiry some changes of address
seem likely. No one seems to know
just where Stanley, alias Wulkan, alias
Rechtand, alias Kosszychki, should
rightly go. Britain has no desire to
detain him. Poland doesn’t want him,
and Israel apparently wishes to give him
the distinction of being the first Jew
refused admission to the new Promised
Land, His tailor, Mr. Teper, is striking
a different sort of trouble. His complaint
is that wherever he goes people point him
out as “the Tribunal tailor” ; he wants
to go to America to forget. But he
was arrested last Friday.
Two months ago the A.L.P. execu-
tive decided to make Maxie Falstein
eligible for the Canberra Pension
by refusing to endorse him for the
Watson seat. When counting in the
pre-selection ballot ended a D. Curtin
was leading in a big field, but he was
only a step ahead of Alderman P. Mills,
voting being 154 to 153. Hills lodged
a protest and called for a swab to be
taken of the credentials of some of the
delegates. Meantime gossip has it that
Maxie has added an Italian hat agency
to his votch-and-chain interests.
Mr. Monk, of the A.C.T.U., blew into
London the other week from Geneva and
morosely announced that the World
Federation of Trade Unions, to which he
had been sent at public expense, was
busted. He would “recommend” that
Australia stay with the British and
American trade-unions. • Mr. Monk went
to the W.F.T.U. bubbling of world
brotherhood or something, then he took it
upon himself to become a “mediator.”
We have too many self-appointed media-
tors kicking about the world.
Queensland has jpined in the fight
against the unjust petrol tax. R.A.C.Q.
secretary Leon Trout has reminded every-
body concerned that only 3d. of the lOid,
a gallon goes to roadmaking, the balance
to Federal" revenue. “The worst instance
of sjectional taxation in the Common-
wealth,” Mr. Trout called it. That’s short
of the truth—it’s the worst in the world.
How “streamlined arbitration” works.
On February 4 Brisbane wharfies held
a “stop-work” to stage one of those
Commo prices demonstrations at the
City Hall. The port committee
refused permission for the stoppage. The
wharfies stopped. A “leading speaker”
at the demonstration was J. Healy, Com-
munist Federal secretary of the wharfies’
union. After the demonstration he flew
to W.A. and was still there on February
15. Brisbane port committee referred
the stoppage to the Stevedoring Industry
Commission, inviting it to take disciplin-
ary action. But Healy is a member of
the S.I.C. and it couldn’t sit to decide
on disciplinary action until he came back.
Anybody caught indulging in hollow
laughter will be reported to Senator
“Fixer” Ashley.
N,S.W. Transport Minister O’Sullivan’s
double-decker buses are plastered with
notices advertising vacancies for con-
ductors and conductresses. From the
wording of the appeals it must be assumed
that the department is rather short of
ticket-punchers and is finding new re-
cruits hard to get. Yet the same Mr.
O’Sullivan has issued an ultimatum to
owners .of private buses telling them he
intends to make it compulsory for them
to carry conductors. The bus-owners
are probably correct in assuming that
the Minister is acting under union pres-
sure.
Last week General Blarney remarked
that Australia’s defence forces had not
been in worse shape for 30 years. The
following day at question-time Holt,
M.H.R., attempted to quote the state-
ment. He was brusquely pulled up by
Speaker Rosevear with “Sir Thomas
Blarney has’ no right to be represented
here.” Our Parliament takes its pre-
cedents for procedure from Westminster ;
but would the Speaker of the Commons
dismiss a statement of one of Britain’s
war-time service chiefs in such a cavalier
fashion?
Display advertisement from a Sydney
suburban “Free Weekly,” here repro-
duced without display:
The Hon. Leslie Haylen, M.H.R., your
Federal member, can be interviewed in the
Masonic Hall, 430, New Canterbury Road,
Dulwich Hill, every Monday, 9.30 a.m. till
12 noon. Bring along your problems, he
will be pleased to help you.
A problem one of his constituents would
like answered is how a member who has
never held Ministerial office comes by the
title of “Honorable.” The Bulletin is
unable to tell him, but suggests that the
word is being used in the descriptive
sense.
Only a month ago one of Evatt’s dis-
carded foreign envoys, Macmahon
Ball, acknowledged a series of ominous
warnings from overseas by telling a Mel-
bourne audience:
We are living on the crumbling edge of
a world not sure whether next week or
next month we may be confronted with a
third world war. The action of Britain and
America in changing from peace to war-
time economies during 1948 is indicative of
the seriousness of the war threat. Never
before has a country with a peace-time
economy reverted to war-time finance with-
out resorting to war.
Dr. Evatt has been watching this develop-
ment on the spot, but he didn’t even
remark upon it in his Parliamentary re-
view of foreign affairs.
A. D. Fraser, “Labor” M.H.R. for
Eden-Monaro, went on the air the other
night to hint that more tax-cuts were
likely in July. He alleged that if his
leader had waited till then to announce
the recently-promised cuts “the Govern-
ment would have been charged with
trying to bribe the electors.” Well, what
is it trying to do?
Sidelight on “Labor’s” objection to
compulsory training. Years ago it was a
complaint among R.A.N. men that their
chances of promotion were reduced by
the high proportion of R.N. officers and
petty-officers in Australian ships. Un-
able to get enough recruits to man pre-
sent R.A.N, vessels, the Government has
enrolled large numbers of British ratings.
That they are s*ood and efficient seamen
and will be a valuable addition to our
population goes without saying, but their
advent will scarcely enhance the local
men’s chances of promotion. And the
R.A.A.F. has been forced to look to
Britain in order to fill its depleted ranks.
The Russians announce that the first
man to design and fly an aeroplane was
one of their own, Alexander Mozhai Ky,
in 1882. This follows the Russian claim
that Russians invented radio, submarines,
helicopters, steam-engines, perennial
wheat and pretty well everything else;
A Russian version of the Genesis story
of the Creation can be expected any
day now.
Reported from Canberra, “a major re-
organisation of the Federal Attorney-
General’s department.” The object of the
reorganisation is not, as might have been
hoped, the more economical running of a
department which already costs too much
for the services it performs. Seven new
jobs have been created at Canberra head-
quarters at salaries ranging from £l5OO
to £2500 a year, with “corresponding”
adjustments in the screws of senior
officers in each State capital, although
the said senior officers can’t blow their
noses without phoning Canberra for
approval. In 1939-40 the Attorney-
General’s department cost the taxpayer
£276,557 ; last year the bill was £664,000.
Still, that is a small jump compared with
the leap taken by the expenditure on Ex-
ternal Affairs. In 1939-40, the last full
year of the pre-Evatt era, the department
cost £117,782. The average annual in-
crease since then has been much higher
than that. Last year’s expenditure rose
to £1,886,000; this year’s estimate is
slightly less, but it was made before the
Doc. became president of U.N.O.
Socialised medicine, British model.
Health Minister Bevan, replying to a
question on the amount of capitation fee
doctors were receiving for their patients,
said there was
a fund of 18s, multiplied by 95 per cent,
of the civil population. From this an
agreed deduction was made for mileage
payments, making the distributable fund
about 17s. sd. multiplied by 95 per cent,
of the civil population. The actual pay-
ment a person on a doctor’s list in any
particular executive council’s area varied
with the proportion of the population who
were on the lists of that area.
Clear enough, no doubt, When compared
with the formula for determining liability
for Federal income tax.
Creation of provinces and States seems
good for population. In 1901 there was a
difference of 1,597,500 between Canada
(5,371,300) and Australia (3,773,800). It
is now upwards of four millions, arid the
admission of Newfoundland will increase
the disparity in Canada’s favor by about
350,000. Alberta and Saskatchewan were
formed into Canadian provinces in 1905
—two years before Oklahoma and five
years before Arizona and New Mexico
were admitted to the American Union.
The population of each now approaches
a million, though when they were terri-
tories it was trifling.
While Dr. Evatt was in Capetown Mr.
Carinus, Administrator of Cape Province,
drove him around to see the sights. Says
the “Cape Times”:
Then Dr. Evatt asked to be taken to a
bookshop. Mr. Carinus hurried him down
Adderley-street, but the shop was shut.
The Administrator, determined that all the
needs of the distinguished visitor should be
satisfied, banged on the door. It was
opened and the manager was only too
pleased to assist Dr. Evatt.
The Doc. bought ,18 books on South
African history and politics, But if
the Administrator should visit Sydney
Bert had better not try to return the com-
pliment. If, for instance, Jim Tyrrell was
persuaded to open up his George-street
bookshop after hours Mr. McGirrs
officials would be down on him like a
ton of “Hansards.”


SNOWY-RIVER PLANNING.
“That is indubitably a spot for a push-button warfare post; but wheer d'you suggest we pul the Tr-rades Hall.?"


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“B. A. Ker”: They do things so differ-
ently once you get away from the city
beaches. To begin with the flapper had
no right to sunbake on the grass beside
the promenade ; and the costume —or lack
of it—whacko! With careful carelessness
she lay supine. Nobody showed more
than casual interest. She changed to a
prone position. Still no gratifying atten-
tion. The poses ranged from an elbow-
rested recline to a one-hand-on-hip stance.
For all anybody cared she might have
been wearing a neck-to-knee. She hip-
swaggered to the rock-baths. Her
swimming exhibition lasted two minutes,
and would have brought her in last in a
dog-paddling race. Back past the on-
lookers again; then another series of
Hollywood poses on the grass. Heart-
breaking, wasted effort. No beach in-
spector reprimanded her; consequently
there were no whistles; not a wolf-call,
nor a comment from “the lads.” No
glorious, escorted'march to the dressing-
sheds with all eyes on the body beautiful.
And no press photographer to fulfil a
girl’s dreams by splashing pictures of
“the body” over acres of newsprint! It
was a public insult, that’s what it was ;
and Austinmer (N.S.W.) should be
thoroughly ashamed of its disgraceful
conduct.
* * * *
“Wanchai”; To add to the discomforts
of a Sydney heat-wave, the Weather-
Bureau has devised a new mental torture.
In the past it has provided the press with
temperature .and “relative” humidjty
figures, but recently it began to supply
in addition “absolute” humidity, which,
we are informed, is the actual measure
of water-vapor per cubic foot of air—
“relative” humidity was based on the per-
centage of saturation at a given tempera-
ture. For example, on February 4 the
absolute humidity was 8.3 grains. I
suggest that the bureau could go still
further and draw up a table to show
the respiratory intake of the average
citizen in grains per day, at varying read-
ings of “absolute” humidity. Super-
imposed on this could be a system for
taking “snap” swabbings among citizens
as a check against selfish individuals
getting more than their share of vapor-
grains. All resultant inquiries could be
heard by a specially constituted court,
functioning under specially appointed
commissioners. And, of course, all pro-
ceedings should be open to the public.
* % %
“Jurumudi”: “I took marriage vows
to stay with my wife until death do us
part —and that’s the way it will be,” said
John O’Keefe, in Melbourne, referring
to his Indonesian wife’s threatened de-
portation. He added that he feared the
tropics would not agree with his health
—he retired from the railways two years
ago through ill-health. On the same day
Mr. Calwell was heard proclaiming in his
peculiarly aggressive way that there was
“not the slightest doubt that this elderly
bachelor of 63 was marrying this woman
purely to help her stay in Australia.”
As Socrates would say, the two statements
have an inharmonious appearance. Still,
if the rigidity of Mr. Calwell drives Mr.
O’Keefe to the tropics, he won’t neces-
sarily find them any more of a menace
to old age or weak health than temperate
Australia. In my experience plenty of
white men live long and healthy lives
there.
* * * *
“Bo”: The statement by E. D. Darby,
member for Manly in the N.S.W. Parlia-
ment, that a member of Parliament
“should spend at least a third of his time
in just plain study or conversation with
experts on subjects which are his parti-
cular interest” seemed so revolutionary
that I hurried around to see what the
opposite political camp thought about it.
They must, I felt sure, disagree violently
with the unique thought if for no other
reason than that it had been propounded
by a “political enemy.” I struck one who
is regarded in Trades Hall circles as one
of our brilliant younger statesmen coming
out of the gas factory. In his hand he
held a journal devoted exclusively to turf
doings. “Mr. Gabby,” I began, “I see
that Darby says you fellows should spend
a third of your time in study or conver-
sation on subjects that interest you most.
Do you think” At this point the
brilliant younger statesman broke in.
“Darby said that, did he? Good old
Darb.l Damn’ shanie they outed him
for a few munce. Always follow him
when he’s ridin’. He don’t go far enough,
though, in sayin’ that. Why! I spend
nearly all me time studyin’ form and
maggin’ to trainers, owners and jocks.
“Just explain your symptoms , then return for your diagnosis next Week.”
but even then it ain’t enough. W’en’s he
say he’s gettin’ back on the pigskin
again?”
• * * *
“Jemac”: The beautifully-polished
Wolseley, its numberplate prefaced with
a red “C,” cruised with majestic slowness
up Pitt-street, Sydney, eased with due
respect for rule of the road through the
scurrying mob at the crossing and pur-
sued its dowager-like passage up-street.
Its driver was neatly and soberly clad in
blue serge uniform and cap, and rode his
wheel with the carriage of a Dragoon on
parade. Beside him in the front seat,
dressed in a gay fawn suit and a strip of
flower-garden depending from his collar,
one arm hung in democratic nonchalance
out the window, lounged the governor
of the Commonwealth Bank. I don’t
know whether the First Banker is a mind-
reader, but next morning in the same spot,
at the same speed, came the beautifully-
polished Wolseley, the Dragoon-like
chauffeur comporting himself as before.
But the seat beside him was empty ; the
governor was in the back.
♦ * * *
“Zake”: The invention by a London
dentist of a new type of steel denture, the
upper and lower sets of which are mag-
netised so they will repel one another
and thus keep firmly in place, apparently
has possibilities, though the inventor
seems to have overlooked certain con-
tingencies. What of the poor devil whom
the flapper-press loves to describe as a
“magnetic personality”? If his personal
magnetism is of a kind in sympathy with
the dentural magnetism it will make the
latter so powerful he’ll never get the two
sets of tombstones together, despite all
his jaw energy; should it be of the un-
sympathetic type, it may be so strong as
to overcome the polarised magnetism of
the tats and clamp ’em together so he
can’t open them. In either case he’s con-
demned to starve slowly to death. As to
the “snob” who, in the custom of his
tribe, thoughtlessly opens his mouth and
throws in a handful of tingles prior to
getting on with a half-soling job, the
resultant disturbance might well wreck
both sets of grinders, and compel his
digestive juices to work overtime trying
to get the swallowed ironmongery trans-
lated into rich red blood.
* ♦ * *
“Findy”: Just when the New South
Wales Government was beginning to con-
gratulate itself that it had got the swab
business sewn up and had thus fulfilled
its primary duty to the people of making
the racing game almost as clean as the
election of officers in a militant trade-
union, the cables hinted at a “discovery”
which may undo all their good work.
The item bore a Moscow date-line and
announced that a Russian scientist, after
European and American attempts had
failed, had devised a method of blood-
transfusion for horses. The implications
are obvious. There’ll be no more need
for doping; the injection of a gallon or
so of Bernborough or Shannon blood into
a no-hoper a few minutes before a race
will be likely to upset the calculations
of handicappers, bookies and punters
alike. Of course, it is unlikely that
Moscow will release the secret to capitalist
countries, but if the Security Police see
any Soviet diplomats hanging around the
stables at Rand wick, it is to be hoped
they will send for the stewards at once,
or, at the very least, draw Senator Ash-
ley’s attention to them.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: Another step towards
the synthetic age has been made by the
discovery by a team of German and
Allied scientists, working under an Eng-
lish leader, of “imitation meat.” The
news should gladden the hearts of vege-
tarians the world over. They are already
able to enjoy the delights of a chop or a
beefsteak from the point of view of
appearance ; they will now be able to en-
joy it from the point of view of taste
without having the guilty feeling that they
have been eating the tissue of animals,
At least the scientists say so. They are
reported to have succeeded in producing
a protein from soya-beans, yeast and fish
solvents which is cheaper than the real
thing and has all the flavor of fish,
chicken, lamb, turkey, beef or pork. Still,
I’d like to sample the • product before
whooping with joy. Scientists are usually
stronger in the intellect than the senses,
and the committee of experts who made
the judgment that a piece of ersatz turkey
tasted just like the real thing might be
another case o£ triumph of mind over
matter.
* * * •
“Graiser” • The rriminnlnoict rn
fl /»2 er ' Jtl£ criminologist (B.
9/2/ 49) who discovered some significance
in the alleged fact that Deeming, one of
whose aliases was “Baron Swanston,” was
hanged at Swanston jail, Melbourne,
wasn t completely off the mark. The
gentleman who disposed of so many
spouses was disposed of himself at the
old Melbourne jail, the remains of which
still abuts on Russell-street, Melbourne,
opposite police h.q. Swanston-street is
the thoroughfare adjacent, and in Deem-
mg s day nothing much separated it from
the jail’s forbidding double walls, between
which the body of the malefactor was
buried in quicklime-— to be exhumed later
as a perfect skeleton when the scoops
were excavating the site for extensions to
Melbourne Tech,
„
* * * *
“Alison”; It happened in the X-ray
room of a large hospital, A mess(
compound-fracture was brought in, and
the senior surgeon decided to set the leg
in the X-ray room. He,summoned a
couple of residents to assist and give the
anesthetic, a couple of physiotherapists
to apply the plaster, and a nurse. The
only person left of the X-ray staff was
a junior who showed great interest in
the proceedings at first, then, just when
things began to happen, he keeled over.
All eyes were turned to the prostrate
figure, but the surgeon recalled their
attention, “Let him lie. He’ll come
round in a minute and you people are
needed on this job.” The operation con-
tinued, and presently out of the corner
of my eye I saw the lad open his eyes.
From the floor he took in the situation.
The last I saw of him was his feet, dis-
appearing with a final wriggle beneath
the dark-room curtain. The medical staff
took the final X-rays.
* * * ♦
“Bright’n”: “Melbn” (B. 9/2/’49) says
Gauguin did not start to paint until he
was past 40. I must differ. The French
painter gave up business for art at 34,
but he had painted conventional stuff
even earlier ; he had a picture hung in
the Paris Salon when he was 28. A
year after he became a professional he
was broke, and later he was forced to
sell for a small sum his collection of the
Impressionists—Cezanne, Manet, Renoir,
Monet and others —bought while he was
a successful businessman. In Mar-
tinique, at 40, he captured his riotous
colors, and on his return to France be-
came associated with Van Gogh. Gau-
guin was 43 when he went to Tahiti to
paint the canvases which are now almost
priceless.
* * * *
“Sackfield”: The year 1932 was rock-
bottom for me. I was down to my last
two-bob, and that a Canberra florin I’d
kept for years as a souvenir. It had to go.
A day or so later I was given a copy of
a journal which ran a limerick competi-
tion, first-prize £5. I decided that I must
win those five lifesavers. After three
hours of solid thinking the fiver was as
good as mine. The next problem was
the stamp. Another souvenir had to go:
a Sturt memorial stamp that I had found
and was keeping with some vague idea
of selling it at a stupendous figure 50 or
60 years hence. The completed limerick
was posted, bearing the stamp that should
have provided for my old age. It won
first-prize. That’s how the story should
end. Unhappily, this is a true story. My
effort did not win first, second, third or
even one of the score of five-bob consola-
tion prizes.
* * * *
“F.R.8.”: Autocratic Bungs (B.
26/1/’49) are nothing new, but the re-
action of their present-day victims takes
a milder form than that of their pre-
decessors. In 1894 and 1913 at Bryncel-
thyn and Cross Keys (England) respec-
tively, customers who were refused drinks
attempted to blow up the hotel premises,
while in 1902 a Washington, D.C., pub-
bery was completely destroyed by a guest
named McKee, who was not pleased with
the service. No one was killed in the
explosion except McKee himself.
* * * *
“Pongo’s Pa”; Permit me to nominate
the “Patent Safety Bicycle” as the best
mechanical device ever invented for the
use and enjoyment of man. Introduced in
the ’eighties as an improvement on the
“penny-farthing” bike it is still the
cheapest means of transport, and as
popular as ever. Except for reduction in
weight no basic improvements have been
made to the “Patent Safety” in two
generations. Unlike car-owners, bike
proprietors spend little or nothing on
maintenance. The grid eats nothing,
doesn’t need a garage or stable and is
never immobilised by engine-trouble.
* * * *
“El Verdugo”:
The chosen piece of selling-talk of the
beautiful but dumb young ladies who are
glamorously hawking “ ‘Russia and us
Journal of the Australian-Russian Society ’ round
Sydney suburbs is the presence in the specious
rag this month of an article by “K. K- Merz,
M.A., member of the Committee of Australia-
Soviet House in Melbourne and a lecturer m
history at the Melbourne University.” Comrade
Merz is able to state definitely that there are no
“slave-camps” in Russia and what really exist
are paradises in which the naughty criminal
“can be reclaimed for society... .re-educated
by the power of example and the surround-
ing enthusiasm, which will make it possible tor
him to learn that work can be joyous and
honorable.” It is to be hoped that Melbourne
University is more accurate in its teaching or
Soviet history (in which it seems to have most
interest) than in Australian history. One recent
book issued by its University Press on the Mac-
quarie period makes Macquarie leave London on
the wrong date, travel in the wrong ship, with tne
wrong captain, have a quarrel en
did not take place, arrive in Sydney Harbor
on the wrong date and under wrongly-state
circumstances, land first on the wrong date
and be inaugurated in the wrong place, pro-
ceeding according to these standards, at
having turned the Governor’s eyes from their
natural brown to “dark grey” and making an
the wrong people do the wrong things on tne
wrong dates, it finally describes the though
of Mrs. Macquarie during a farewell Jou/JK
to Illawarra which she didnt make, when
travelling with the Governor along with a
“nabob’s equipage,” which actually consisted
of three packhorses to serve the trayelhng
needs of four men, and one of which tell oier
one of the precipices which in those days made
the road interesting. Fortunately, the . M"-
bourne “shop” cannot take all the credit to
this remarkable essay—-it is by an honors
graduate in history of Sydney Uni. I
THE FOREST OF EVATT.
“A forest is to be planted in Palestine to keep
evergreen the name of the Australian Minister. Dr.
Evatt.”— Cable,
You’ve heard of the Forest of Sherwood, I
know.
Where bold Robin Hood was the boss of the
show,
And the Imprest of Arden, where Shakspeare
and Co.
From the stage could convincingly give it,
But there’s never a need to bewail or bemoan
The lack of arboreal scenes of our own
Now that Palestine woods are already being
grown
For Evatt—Bert Evatt, Bert Evatt.
Some ever insist that no prophet has got
The meed he deserves in his natural lot,
The fame in his own geographical spot
Where he reckons he ranks as a trivit.
But here we’ve a statesman —our own we can
claim —
Who when Hebrews and Arabs each other
defame
Can bid them be brothers once more, in the
name,
The name of the Forest of Evatt.
He has written the word for both sides to
combine
And work with each other in far Palestine,
Though it looks little nearer, in yours or in
mine
Ideas, what they differ or spiv at,
But I wonder if Moslems or eke Zionese,
For all they essay to placate or to please,
Will ever be seeing the wood through the trees
Contained in the Forest of Evatt.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Bogaduck”: For the amount of fuss
and bother which one man caused unin-
tentionally I’ll back this. A liner ran
into a heavy swell after rounding Cape
Otway ; dancing came to a halt and most
people turned in early. A passenger took
a stroll around the deserted decks, and the
sight of, the moonlit boat-deck made him
think of the roller-skates in his trunk. He
brought them up and found that the roll-
ing of the liner enabled him to introduce
a novelty into skating; by timing his
rounds to the roll and pitch of the ship
he was able to skate downhill all the time,
with no effort. He became aware of a lot
of shouted orders and bustle below, but
he took no notice of it until a steward
rushed up and said excitedly, “Quick, sir,
take them things off and get down to your
cabin. You’ve caused no end of trouble,
you ’ave. ‘Ere’s the mate down in the
’olds to see what’s got adrift among the
cargo, the chief engineer out of ’is bunk
to see if something’s gorn wrong with
the engines, and now they’ve called the
captain to see if ’e can find it.” Anyone
who has heard roller-skates on the top-
floor of a building will understand how
a sound like that on a ship at sea could
throw all hands into a panic,
♦ * * ♦
“Hamfat”: What had become of the
“Austrian chairs” which were once a
feature of the domestic landscape was a
mystery to me until I discovered a
number of the creakers in a large Sydney
eatery. The massed specimens in the
Sydney Town Hall used to bring visiting
concert stars almost to the point of mad-
ness, for the most careful sitter could not
prevent an Austrian speaking for itself,
and sometimes, in what were intended
to be the most impressive moments, hun-
dreds of them would speak in chorus.
They had other disadvantages ; the cane
seats were liable to wear into untidy
“ Bye-bye , bishop; see you again later!”
holes; chair-mending was a distinct
calling in former days. But there was-a
certain elegance about the furnishings
that appealed in an age which was pre-
pared to be uncomfortable in order to
be conventional, and the Austrians were
a dining-room fitting for decades. Their
decline dates from World War I.
* * * *
“Sally Jane”: When a young killer shot
the Walker-Barton brother and sister,
owners of Wallerawong station, he not
only deprived society of two cultured and
useful citizens; through his crime yet
another of the now very few big hold-
ings still held by descendants of original
grantees passes to outside ownership.
The original Walker, founder of the
Walker-Barton family, blew into Sydney
Cove back in the early eighteen hundreds.
In 1828 he was given a large land grant
at Wallerawong, adjacent to the new
Sydney-Bathurst road, then under con-
struction. This first Walker, for whom
Mount Walker, highest landmark in the
district, was named, was a kindly and
humane man, a tradition his descendants
carried on. Archer, who wrote Recol-
lections of a Rambling Life, a readable
chronicle of the time, devotes quite a
slice of the volume to Walker of Wal-
lerawong. When the railway came the
station became Wallerawang, but the
Walker-Bartons stuck to the original spell-
ing of the aboriginal name, which means
“pools of water.” As there are coal-
seams on the Walker-Barton lands the
Joint Coal Board has resumed the pro-
perty, including the 120-year-old convict-
built homestead, A spinet, one of the
first of its kind to be humped across the
Blue Mountains by bullock-dray, has been
acquired for posterity by the Lithgow
Historical Society.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Unicorn”; “Anthrop” (B. 12/1 /’49)
is right about Samuel Marsden preserv-
ing Maori treasures of “graven images”
for posterity. All the same, Maoriland
lost some of its most valuable relics when
Austrian scientist Andreas Reischek col-
lected them in years of wandering all
over the country and deposited them in
the Vienna museum. Reischek pene-
trated areas where the Maori still dwelt
in primitive savagery, became a sort of
“blood-brother” to many of them and
wrote a book. Yesterdays in Maoriland,
which is something of a classic. Reis-
chek’s scientific interest sometimes over-
came his scruples; in one district he
fooled the natives and managed to un-
earth some heads from a tapu burying-
place. I heard a rumor some time ago
that a New Zealander in Europe at the
end of the war chased up the Maori
relics in Vienna and secured their release
for MX. Anybody know the truth of
the story?.
* « « *
“Fancier”: Tell Ted Scorfield that
Dalmatians are whelped pure white and
have no spots at birth. They may have
patches of black like the little puzzle de-
picted yapping at the side (B. 9/2/’49).
An inexperienced woman breeder once
drowned a litter out of shame for the
dam when she saw the pups. Spots
appear on the skin after a few days and
seem to grow into the hair. Buying
Dalmatian puppies is for this reason a
game of poker, as spots account for 40
out of 100 points in the show-ring.
During the first two years the spots con-
tinually change and are added to. I
bought a Dalmatian bitch on show per-
formance, without seeing her. She'had
won all her prizes up to nine months,
but when I bought her at 18 months
she was a very different animal.
«•• • *
“C.R.”: Despite “Melbn,” the state-
ment of the psychiatrist who told Gee-
long businessmen that mental ability
starts to decline at 40 wasn’t altogether
bunkum. The fact that there are great
individual exceptions doesn’t discount the
general rule. I would go further, and
say the decline begins at 18. That is
about the time when the fancy of young
men and women turns to love, and they
begin looking for a steady. Marriage
usually follows, and if there is any mental
development after that it is the exception.
Hubby too often confines his intellectual
explorations to the daily papers and
wifie to the wireless, and if you asked
them to tackle the simplest problem of
their schooldays they would regard you
as a monster.
* « * *
“Mullum”: The postal official had just
emptied the stamp-machine and was
counting the proceeds. Among the
pennies were several blank disks of lead.
“Wc write them off as losses due to
counterfeit coins,” he told me, and then
added, “What I can’t understand is why
they do it. They have to get the metal
and then it must take a couple of minutes
to cut the disks. It would probably take
half an hour to make a dozen, and a
bob for half an hour’s work isn’t easy
money these days. Then they have to
get rid of the stamps before they can
“I'll be home soon, Mum —I've just about cleaned up everything.”
spend the profits,” lam inclined to agree
with him, but someone must think other-
wise, for he still collects three or four
duds each morning,
♦ * * *
“Kali”; That hardy annual the sea-
serpent has bobbed up again, this time
his location being just outside Madras
Harbor. The wriggler was reported by
the European skipper of a coastal trader,
who described it as about thirty yards in
length with the usual snakelike head.
Although outward-bound, he turned back
to make his report, and a plane im-
mediately set out to verify the story —
without success. Personally I refuse to
scoff at the existence of huge and pos-
sibly unknown denizens of the ocean
depths. I once saw a section of a huge
tentacle washed pp on the reef at Cocos
Island. It was five feet around and did
not taper for a length of thirteen feet;
obviously it was a section from a giant
squid. Governor Sidney Clunies-Ross
maintained that one of the deep and
narrow guts between two of the smaller
islands was the habitat of a conger-eel
at least sixty yards in length, with a
body as thick as an ox. I have great
faith in any statement made by Ross;
what he didn’t know of the group was
not worth knowing.
* * ♦ *
“Muskeen”: There must be at least
forty families in Victoria (B. 9/2/’49)
who spell their surname without a capital
letter. Most of them commence with
the prefix “de,” but there are a couple
of “vans,” a del Cott, and the old Vic-
torian a’Beckett clan. Ancestors of the
de Crespignys and the a’Becketts settled
in England in Norman times.
* * * *
“Clooter”; The advent of that sartori-
ally-perfect politician Mr. Anthony
Eden to this country will probably stimu-
late criticism of the Australian male’s
slovenly habits of dress. It has always
seemed to be a peculiar demand on the
part of both local and imported dress-
reformers that all Australians should get
about dressed either like the illustrations
in the “Tailor and Cutter” or like hunters
on safari. Anyone who cares to note the
apparel of crowds at British gatherings,
on American streets or in European
scenes could hardly fail to be impressed
with the fact that, generally, the Aus-
tralian male, whether at work, at play
or on formal occasions, is far better
dressed than his social counterpart any-
where else in the world. In the establish-
ment where I expend my talents for a
weekly wage, most of the people—even
those who have to muck about in grease
and dirt all day—arrive at and depart
from the place attired like successful
businessmen. This is true of most Aus-
tralian workers, and those who doubt it
can, as I said, compare Australians with
others. Where? On the newsreels.
* * ♦ *
“V. Cluse”; Our suburb just now is a
riot of color where dahlias, petunias,
balsams, roses, geraniums, nasturtiums,
calendulas and other bright summer
blooms emblazon gardens, fences,
rockeries and walls. Our local council
has every odd bit of unused land gay
with flowers. So when I saw the hefty
young man striding down our street with
a big bunch of mixed blooms, calling
“Flow-wurs! Fresh flow-wurs!” I
kindly suggested that he was a bit off his
beat. He seemed startled, so I waved a
hand at the carnival of bloom all around
us. “Aw, that,” he murmured, eyeing me
speculatively. He shifted the bunch and
fished out a cigarette. “I ain’t worried
about sellin’ ’em, mate,” he said con-
fidentially. “I got me own ways o’ makin’
a livin’, see. But I gotta have somethin
t’ show if the p’lice vag. a man an’ reckon
he’s got no visible means o’ support.”
And he swung off along the street, blaring
“Fresh flow-wurs!” to the unresponsive
populace.
« * * ®
“Tackline S.”: With the scarcity of
modern vehicles many contraptions of
ancient vintage rattle along the streets.
As with the female of the human species
they rarely brag of their antiquity, but a
Chev. truck recently spotted near Sydney’s
Circular Quay proudly announced on its
bonnet: “Old enough to vote.”
* * * *
“South Coast”: The “Cumberland
Argus” evidently tricked “W.P.T.” (B.
26/1/’49) if it stated that kittens usually
have 20 toes. A very old jingle goes:
“Do you suppose that anyone knows on
how many toes a pussy-cat goes? For a
man of deceit can best counterfeit, and so
I suppose he can best counter toes.” If
“W.P.T.” can’t count ’er feet he should
have a shot at counting ’er toes. He
would discover that the normal puss-
cat has 18.
* * * *■
“Pitt St.”: The Sydney press frequently
has references to “regular first-nighters”
appearing at this or that show, but I doubt
they are as inevitable as the regular
watchers at the many other forms of
entertainment the city offers. I’ve taken
the trouble to watch the people who watch
men digging holes. Of the regular crowd
of some dozen or so who watched such
an entertainment in George-street for
several weeks, seven faithfully followed
the players to their new stand in Oxford-
street ; of nine watchers of a hole-in-rail
boring act in lower Pitt-street three
had their seats booked when the
artists opened in Phillip-street; a
bitumen-roller driver sometimes carries
two of his “fans” from job to job. I was
somewhat at a loss about a stout, hearty
chap who seemed to share in apprecia-
tion among various performers in various
localities —until one Friday when I dis-
covered him “paying and receiving” on
the previous Saturday’s races.
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Golden Mile”: “Bo” has the right
idea when he speaks of the housewife
employing a fork to ease off the internal
pressure of the frying sausage (B.
19/1 /’49), but I suggest that the modern
fork is a clumsy implement likely to
aggravate rather than avoid disaster.
Bridget, who used to cook at our gold-
fields boarding-house, had a better tech-
nique. Snatching a hairpin from her mop
of brick-red hair she would deftly punc-
ture the tyres of the frying mysteries, in-
flicting the minimum of injury while effec-
tively carrying out her purpose. But I
could never understand why Flensby, the
swank office-johnny, always refused
sausages, although at Old Bill’s cafe-de-
gutter he might be seen devouring them
with avidity.
THE ANGLER FISH.
“A fish with a head like a cat, four legs and
paws complete with claws, green eyes and fur on its
body, _ captured at Berowra Waters (N.S.W.), has
been identified by the Superintendent of Fisheries as
the rare angler fish —Antennarius striatus. It was
sold for £25 to a fishing enthusiast.”
Step in! Meet Antennarius striatus,
A blithe newcomer to our piscine list,
Its genus and its scientific status
Tabbed by a leading ichthyologist.
Who would have guessed that such an apparatus
As that which it exhibits could exist,
Excepting in the sort of dreams you get
After an overdose of heavy wet?
An angler fish, he comes the wall to sunder
’Twixt things that tread the land and those
that skim
The water. Feline both atop and under,
Yet finny too, equipped to slink or swim,
Whichever he prefers, I can’t but wonder
What Isaak Walton would have madfe of him.
What bait he would have used, what sort of
dish
Have recommended for the angler fish.
But here he is: not like the Tantanoola
Tiger, not like the bunyip fabulous,
Or any other fiction framed to fool a
People as fond and fanciful as us.
He’s just as genuine as he’s peculiar,
Same as the duck-billed, web-toed platypus,
Which European scientists, one knows.
Once classed with leprechauns and things like
those.
Unique among our fauna and our flora
He lends new lustre to our shores, I guess.
There’s nothing like him between Mount Abora
In Abyssinia and Lake Success,
This fishlike freak located at Berowra.
Even the so-called Monster of Loch Ness
He beats, who’s been unquestionably found
And parted with for five-and-twenty pound.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Full time
fd
Service
The Trustees Executors & Agency Co. Ltd., Australia’s oldest Trustee Company, has since
its inception in 1878 given the whole of its time to the provision of:
• Prompt, efficient and economical service as Executor, Trustee, Administrator or Agent.
• It cannot die or leave the country. Its services go on forever.
• It is specially constituted under Act of Parliament. ,
It offers ample security for the performance of trusts.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
BOARD OP DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; O. S. Column, C.8.E.; Sir Alan Newton,
M-. 5., Melb., P.R.O-S., Eng,; O. D. Young’.
General Manager: W, Sydney Jones.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY,
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £964,692.
NEW SOUTH WAUES DIRECTORS*
Dr. H. J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.8.A..C.F.
John Cadwailader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8.,
C.M.G., D. 8.0.; David Wilson, M.A., h U. 8., a-v.
N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Masonite Corporation (Australia), Ltd.
■—Divs. To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Ords. " Def. serves, serves.*
£ £ £ £ £
8 p.c. 61.9 p.c.
1943 .. 32,979 20,001 7,750 6,228 527
79.6 p.c.
1944 .. 37,438 20,001 9,950 7,487 8,014
8-4 p.c.
1945 .. 38,718 20,250 10,600 7,968 15,982
96 p.c.
1946 .. 44,058 22,562 12,000 9,496 25,478
84 p.c.
1947 .. 40,906 23,000 10,500 7,406 32,884
12i p.c. 292 p.a.
1948 .. 93,465 35,937 36,500 21,028 53,912
•After deducting intangibles, £14,426.
The leap in last term’s net earnings,
lifting them to more than double the
1947 figure, provides a clear illustration
of the benefits of expanded and uninter-
rupted production, combined with im-
proved technical and other efficiency and
the economies winch follow them.
Altogether the co. has put up a very
creditable performance. It has success-
fully established a new industry in Aus-
tralia with what looks like an assured
future. It kicked off about 10 years ago
with £262,500 of capital in 250,000 £1
ords and 100,000 2s. 6d. deferreds. The
ords., of which A.C.I, holds a tidy parcel,
were taken locally, and Masonite Corp,
(U.S.A.) took the deferreds for cash in
return for rights to processes to turn out
pressed-wood building and insulating
materials known as masonite. The
deferreds are entitled to 50 p.c. of profits
after the ords. have had 7 p.c., have the
right to elect three of the five directors,
and rank after the ords, for return of
capital.
Before the factory at Raymond Terrace
(N.S.W.) could get into its stride war
arrived, and with it a steady demand for
the output at controlled prices on defence
account. This gave the products a wide
market in which they soon won favor.
Meanwhile modest additions and improve-
ments to the factory, etc., including a
research laboratory, helped to quicken
and cheapen production, for which com-
mercial demand has run far ahead of
output since war ended. So, in 1945, it
was decided to add another unit to the
plant, doubling its capacity. The work
was completed about the end of the 1947
term, when a further unit was ordered,
which is expected to be in production
before the close of next accounts.
Last term the cost of all raw materials
—timber, coal, oil, press plates, etc. —
and labor rose, and the 40-hour week
aggravated the position during the last
half. However, a ready market for the
increased production enabled the manage-
ment to cut selling-prices further from
the beginning of 1948, making the reduc-
tion over 30 p.c. since war began on lines
which account for the bulk of turnover.
Still, gross profit (£230,668) shot up by
£105,896 ; and, equally pleasing, manage-
ment exes. (£69,333) took only £15,466
of the gain. After allowing an extra
£27,871 for taxation (£57,870) and setting
aside £lO,OOO for a staff welfare fund,
the amount available for shareholders
was £52,559 stronger at £93,465. A
generous £36,021 (up £1791), equal to
over 15 p.c. on mean book-value of all
fixed assets, was allowed for depreciation.
Of the profit £56,795 belonged to the
ords. and £36,670 to the deferreds, the
ratio to their respective capitals being
19.7 p.c. and 293.3 p.c. Distribution to
the ords. was lifted from 8 p.c. to 12|
p.c., and to the deferreds from 84 p.c.
to 292 p.c.
The deferreds are, of course, in clover.
During the last six years they have re-
ceived divs. equal to nearly seven times
their paid capital. Over the same period
the ords. have had an average of
8.7 p.c, from net earnings averaging 12.3
p.C; on their capital.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances:
1944. 1945. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £262,507 £281,245 £300,000 £300,000
Creditors .. 18,638 16,396 21,845 32,672
Tax reserve .. 39,000 54,750 29,275 59,850
Welfare fund 10,000
Freehold and
buildings .. 65,617 70,701 104,205 147,842
Machinery, plant
& fittings .. 94,761 84,905 109,126 112,560
Stocks.. .. 48,027 47,464 71,101 118,107
Debtors .. 48,933 30,369 89,653 70,353
Cash & invest-
ments . . 79,079 153,893 76,919 63,509
Subsid. co. .. 7,343 5,000 5,000 5,000
Intangibles .. 14,426 14,426 14,426 14,426
To meet the year’s net addition of
£47,071 to fixed assets, carry an extra
£47,006 of stocks and increase debtors’
balances by £30,700, only £10,827 was
added to the moderate amount coming to
sundry creditors. Allowing for final divs.,
the more-or-less liquid surplus (£93,510)
was £26,043 lighter than at the previous
balance.
The outlook is bright enough on the
demand side, and triplication of the plant
is well advanced. Chief danger to earn-
ings at the moment lies in the possibility
of production being interrupted by stop-
pages in delivery of coal and other
materials, while costs continue to advance.
The ords. at 565. (495. 6d. a year ago)
return 4.4 p.c. on a 12i p.c, distribution.
The deferreds (unlisted) recently sold at
665., giving a return of 11 p.c. on a 292
p.c. div. basis, or 5 p.c. an a 132 p.c.
distribution. Cover for the ords. is 245.
7d. in net tangibles,
•
Australian General Insurance
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£> £ £ £
1940.. 14,866 10 p.«. = 7000 7,806 104,379
Staff provident fund, £5OOO .. .. 99,379
1941.. 15,354 10 p.c. = 7000 8,354 107,733
1942.. 11,810 10 „ „ 7000]
Staff fund, £lOOO .. ..1 810 108,548
To tax reserve, £BOOO .. 1
1943.. 15,965 10 p.c. = 7000 /
Staff fund, £2OOO .. .. ( 6 ’ 965 115,508
1944.. 14,900 10 p.c. 7000 /
Staff fund, £lOOO .. 6 > 900 122 ’ 408
1945.. 17,556 10 p.c. = 7000/ q ~,
Staff find. £lOOO .. 9,556 131,964
1946.. 17,241 10 p.c.a 7000) g2n U 1 2 05
Staff fund, £lOOO .. ..( 9,241 141,205
1947 •; _ Bl ’ 2Bl niniw? = 7000 > 23,231 164,436
Staff fund, £lOOO ~ .. f ’
1948 •; 83 > 04 ? „ 12 P-°- 8400 I 23,647 188,083
Staff fund, £ 1000 .. .. ) ’
The successful underwriter is the one
who accumulates enough money now to
meet claims that will be made upon him
over the next 12 months or more, and
leave a margin after these claims and his
exes, have all been paid. Judged on
this basis, the Sydney-controlled Aus-
tralian General, which grew up under the
wing of the Mercantile Mutual, has given
a very good account of itself. It has
paid a steady 10 p.c. since 1937, sweetened
with a 2 p.c. bonus last term, and the
£70,000 of capital (in £1 shares paid to
7s, each) had the support and assistance
of £188,083 of reserves at end 1948,
when the return from investments alone
more than covered the 12 p,c. distribu-
tion.
The business is confined to the Com-
monwealth, and premium income, which
showed no marked fluctuation during the
war years, has become expansive again,
owing to the quick rise in insurable
values which has followed on the heels
of inflation, a high level of employment
and expanding volume of trade. Through-
out the overall loss rate has been satis-
factory, and the management has kept
a firm hold upon controllable exes. Now
it has been decided to put more ginger
into the hunt, and shareholders welcome
the decision to call up a further 3s. a
share by the end of March. That will
make the scrip paid to 10s. and lift paid
capital to £lOO,OOO, on which 12 p.c,
will call for less than half the profit
shown last term, or only £3426 more than
the year’s net return from interest and
divs. (£8574).
Last term gross premiums stepped up
by £40,296, reaching £243,946. Reinsur-
ances (£84,636) were £15,674 heavier, thus
leaving the gain in net premiums at
£24,622:
„ Loss Exes.
Net Ratio, Ratio,
Dec., Premiums. Claims. Exes. p.c. p.c.
1926.. £96,550 £55,476 £35,176 57,5 36.4
1930.. 116,026 69,892 48,040 90,2 41.4
1936.. 78,511 37.029 85,767 47.1 46.6
1939.. 98,988 47,910 44,309 '48.4 44.7
1942.. 95,173 40,869 48,778 42.9 51.2
1944.. 98,229 48,899 41,666 49.8 42.4
1945.. 99,758 46,688 42,860 47.7 43.8
1946.. 113,409 57,809 46,168 50.9 40.7
1947.. 144,688 66,916 64,463 46.2 37.6
1948.. 169,810 78,056 66,781 46.0 89.4
Despite the unsatisfactory nature of
motor-vehicle and third-party risks
and loss through pilferage on the
wharves, the loss ratio was 4s. p.c.
lighter; but the expense rate, including
taxation, increased by 365, p.c. However,
the underwriting surplus was £1164 better
at £24,473, which includes £lO,OOO added
to the reserve for unexpired risks (now
£85,000), which is well in excess of the
40 p.c. usually considered adequate. The
profit from all sources was thus £33,047.
Assets are sound, worth more than their
book-value and, for the most part, readily
realisable:
1939. 1945. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £70,000 £70,000 £70,000 £70,000
Liabilities .. 28,936 50,589 78,078 86,496
Freeholds .. 2,500 2,500 2,500 2,500
Mortgages .. 41,738 30,489 25,771 19,917
Debentures .. ■ 9,000 6,000 6,000 6,000
Govt, securities 91,988 182,088 219,588 258,588
Book debts .. 8,869 8,600 16,165 22,857
Cash, etc. .. 53,854 56,876 66,999 64,959
The co, has always been a staunch sup-
porter of Government loans, to its hold-
ing of which £166,600 —£39,000 in respect
of last term —has been added since 1939.
The market prices the scrip at 305,,
making it worth 335. when the new call
is paid. The return at 335. is 3.5 p.c. on
a 12 p.c, distribution. Net tangible cover
is 28s. lOd. a share.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Towards
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1939 .. 29,698 10 p.c. = 24,334 5,364 19,612
1940 .. 28,854 8.5 „ „ 20,278 8,576 16,037
1941 .. 17,011 3.3 „ „ 8,111 8,900 7,137
Reserves.
1942 .. 24,722 6.6 „ „ 16,222 8,500 1,363
1943 ~ 25,318 10 „ „ 24,334 984 2,347
1944 .. 14,800 3.3 „ „ 8,111 6,689 9,036
1945 .. 9,684 8.3 „ „ 8,111 1,573 10,609
1946 .. 24,912 6.6 „ „ 16,222 8,690 19,299
1947 .. 56,812 16.6 „ „ 40,556 16,266 35,555
1948 .. 97,672 23.3 „ „ 56,779 40,893 76,448
Never have squatters enjoyed a more
happy combination of fat prices and
moderately good seasons—a rare event
—than during the last two years;
and that means full-blooded earnings.
Certainly costs have advanced at an un-
healthy rate, which is certain to spell
trouble later on; but wool has sold, and
continues to sell, at phenomenally high
figures and livestock are fetching excep-
tional prices. For the December half of
1948 the Australian average price for
greasy was 47.93 d. a pound as against
35.47 d. for the corresponding period of
1947, an increase of 35.1 p.c. The
December average was 55.7 d., highest
monthly average on record —previous
highest was 51.17 d. in November and
45.33 d. in February, 1948.
Satisfactory though lighter rains fell
on all the co.’s properties, as the follow-
ing table giving average annual falls in
inches shows:
1944. 1945, 1946. 1947. 1948.
Thurulgoona .. 5.80 7.74 6.81 17.83 13.03
Quantambone .. 5.76 10.43 8.25 20,84 16.86
Tondeburine .. TP.39 23.32 7.62 27.49 17.75
To end 1946 average fall on Thurul-
goona (near Cunnamulla, Q.) was 12.45
inches over the preceding 45 years, on
Quantambone (near Brewarrina, N.S.W.),
14.8 inches over 52 years, and on Tonde-
burine (near Gulargambone, N.S.W.)
18.81 inches over 25 years.
More sheep passed over the board, and
the staple brought in an extra £81,464:
t Sh eep N
On Books Wool, Pro- Average
Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, ceeda. per Bale.
1940.. 111,120 102,310 3532 £56,951 £l6/2/6
1941.. 98,807 131,479 2894 50,259 17/7/10
1943.. 132,494 145,964 3919 80,750 20/12/0
1945.. 65,593 70,914 2065 43,777 21/4/0
•1946.. 80.362 63,781 2486 77,120 81/0/5
1947.. 72,126 93,157 2-176 102,160 46/18/11
1948.. 82,839 116,564 2851 183,624 64/10/0
Sale of fewer livestock turned in £29,100
(down £2467), and £2427 was received in
interest, making gross earnings £215,151
(up £79,907). After allowing for taxa-
tion (£59,716, up £27,368) and deprecia-
tion (£6659, up £2575), the net result was
£40,860 stronger at £97,672, best in the
co.’s history. It was 40.1 p.c. on capital
as against 23.3, 10.2, 3.9, 6, 10.4, 10.1
and 6.9 p.c. back to 1941. The distri-
bution was lifted from 16.6 p.c. to 23.3
p.c., of which 16.6 p.c. was labelled bonus.
For the investor, however, scrip in this
class of business is a question of averages
rather than immediate returns. Fdr the
decade to the close of accounts in 1947
divs. averaging 6.8 p.c. were paid from
net earnings averaging 9.4 p.c. on capital,
and for the decade before that divs. aver-
aged 3.8 p.c. and net earnings 1.1 p.c.
Financially the co. is well equipped to
stand up to a bad patch when it arrives:
1941. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Capital .. £243,838 £243,338 £243,838 £243,888
Liabilities .. 42,181 2,851 1,277 4,725
Tax reserve .. 8,600 24.000 88,100 60,000
Stations, plant,
etc. .. 218,590 180,860 162,699 210,808
Sheep, cattle,
horses .. 62,630 26,841 81,670 40,066
Wool unsold.. 105 4,018 104 154
Cash, etc. .. 10,607 96,602 161,842 182,662
Last year £47,709 more was spent on im-
provements to properties, etc., than was
written off, and livestock is valued in the
books at a very conservative figure.
Since the close of accounts the Gov-
ernment has resumed Tondeburine, but
the co. has appealed against the price
(unstated). The stock from this pro-
perty has been transferred to another,
Teryawynia, bought unstocked for
£60,000 cash. The new station, in a low-
rainfall area near Menindee (N.S.W.),
comprises 297,627 acres of western leases
expiring 1968-74, and is well improved.
Further rains are now needed on all
the co.’s properties, though fairly good
supplies of dry feed are still available.
This and the extraordinary prices still
being received for wool and livestock
augur well for the current year’s earn-
ings. How long wool prices will hold
at or around present levels is difficult to
say; a year ago those in the trade con-
sidered prices dangerously high.
At 455. (375, a year ago) the f.-p. 30s.
shares give an immediate return of 15.3
p.c. on a 23.3 p.c. distribution, or 5 p.c.
on an average distribution of 1\ p.c.
Cover is 395. sd, (book-value) in net
tangibles,
N.S.W. Mont de Piele
To R*- H«-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 38,587 10 p.c. = 37,500 1087 62,929
1941.. 35,188 10 „ „ 37,500 60,617
1942.. 28,770 8 „ „ 30,000 69,387
1943.. 30,474 8 „ „ 30,000 474 69,861
1944.. 80,842 8 „ „ 30,000 842 60,708
1945.. 34,560 9 „ „ 33,750 810 61,613
1946.. 87,633 10 „ „ 87,500 183 61,646
1947.. 88,294 10 „ „ 38,119 175 61,821
1948.. 40,147 10 „ „ 39,998 149 61,970
From its Castlereagh-street headquarters,
four branch offices elsewhere in Sydney
and two in Melbourne, the Mont
de Pietd conducts a 67-year-old money-
lending business. The exact scale of
activities isn’t easy to judge these days,
as a good slice of the financing is being
done through subsidiaries which don’t
broadcast their accounts. Though the
parent has only put up £2004 for their
capital, its loans to the subsidiaries have
continuously exceeded £lOO,OOO during
the past 10 years—varying from a third
to a half of its own clientele-business—
and whether the subsidiaries get further
accommodation by bank-overdraft or
otherwise isn’t known:
Parent’s Figures.
1939. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital.. £375,209 £875,326 £899,805 £400,000
Overdraft .. • 36,442 32,892
Creditors and
tax ~ 84,747 36,508 27,179 88,885
Freeholds and
fittings .. 68,909 67,173 66,992 67,655
Shares in sub-
sidiaries .. 64 2,004 2,004 2,004
Owing by sub-,
sidiaries .. 121,855 118,718 118,750 127,752
Advances .. 843,779 300,542 353,324 351,449
Cash . .. 4,691 7,538 3,546 3,987
It was the loans to subsidiaries which in-
creased (by £9002) last term while the
parent’s moneylending showed a small
decline (£1875); the net increase was met
by £7216 extra liabilities.
The above figures would suggest that
combined operations of the parent and
its offspring are on about the same scale


u
is
Distributed by WILCOX MOFFLIN LIMITED
Branches in all. States.,
m
0
z
mm
*7
A CHAMPION DOG
German Shepherd
"BLACK DUCHESS OF GLEN EIRA"
Magnificent black and tan bitch,
regarded by leading judges as one
of the finest specimens of breed in
Australia. Holds amazing distinc-
tion of having won more than 40
Challenges in four showing seasons.
4
mmm
m
CHAMPION
READY RUBBED TOBACCO
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake. Cut for the Pipe,
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. —Advt.
Are You Getting
CLEAR WATER?
Send for Booklet
and Prices of
THE AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FILTER
Fitter
Cylinder
GUTHREDGE
PTY., LIMITED,
10-12 Parramatta Road,
Camperdown, Sydney, N.B.W.
k
gest
m
HAlfs
AU
no
STA
ARD
H
mm
I S H
BALL POINT PEN
The most vital part of a bail-point
pen is the refill. Unless you are assured
of 100% service in this direction your
pen cannot serve you fully.
Biro the world's most famous ball-
point pen —is obtainable throughout
the Eastern hemisphere.
Discriminating writers choose Biro for
the dependability of this service as
much as for Biro's convenience and
ease of writing. Biro refills are
guaranteed to give satisfaction in
whatever country they are sold. They
start writing and keep on writing. Biro
service is always at your service.
All Stationers, Jewellers and Stores.
"Magnum" Refills 3/9 each.
Buy as many as you want!
f BP3I/16
WiM'
mllmmlu
m
!W^VWWt'WWli|lliWWWit'lXWii!'W | TWV!Willw»'
MR. RICHARD THORNTON
A respected Member of Lloyd’s for many
years during the middle of the, nineteenth
century, he electrified the city with his
daring Insurance risks. Mr. Thornton was
also described as a born adventurer, a reck-
less gambler and a fearless seaman. One
of his outstanding exploits was to take his
own ship into the Baltic in the teeth of the
enemy for a cargo of hemp to dispose of on
the London market.
■jf This little thumb-nail sketch, which we
hope will be of* interest to you, is one of a
series of personalities who were prominent
in the early days of historic Lloyd’s of
London.
Jmrmrnnmmmrnm r.mx
EDWARD LVMLEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
A wealth of experience in all phases of Insurance, gained
through long association with Lloyd’s, underlies the service
that we place at your disposal through our branches in
every State of the Commonwealth.
Your enquiry for further information would be welcome.
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
263 George Street, Sydney, and 33 Watt Street, Newcastle.
EL.w.i* AND ALL OTHER STATES ,
Insurances effected at
as in 1939, but a different story
is told by the parent’s gross earn-
ings (including dividends from
the subsidiaries), which were
£20,482, or 36 p.c., higher last
year than in 1939:
Parent’s Figures.
1939. 1947. 1948.
3ross earnings.. £56,338 £76,326 £76,820
Zeis —
General -exes.
(including tax) 20,577 37,850 36,382
Depreciati o n 947 182 291
Net profit .. 35,214 38,294 40,147
War-time increases in tax rates
and higher taxable earnings—
explain much of the rise in
general expenses over the decade.
As usual, nearly all of last
year’s net profit was handed out
to shareholders. Visible reserves
are none too stout at £61,970 —
the figure hasn’t improved since
1940 ; but both the parent’s gross
profits and its advances to clients
are shown each year after un-
specified provisions for bad and
doubtful debts, and Mont de
Piete’s relatively smooth passage
through the depression in the
’thirties suggests these inner
props may be substantial.
On book-values the shares
have net tangible backing of
235. Id. The current ’Change
price of 425. (as against 275. 6d.
in 1939 and 48s. 6d. a year ago)
offers a 4.8 p.c. yield on the basis
of last div. The outcome of the
bank-nationalisation case could
have interesting implications for
financier cos.; so far the en-
croachment of semi-Govern-
mental bodies in their field and
the high money-incomes of the
post-war era don’t appear to
have lessened business.
King Island Scheelit®
King Island Scheelite (1947)
Ltd. is a half-million pound
proposition which took over the
old King Island Scheelite, N.L.,
undertaking for £439,474 —
£252,241 cash and the balance in
i,-p. ss. shares —from the begin-
ning of November, 1947. The
old co., in which the Federal
Government became interested
during the war for strategic
reasons, had become overcapi-
talised.
The new co. has made an en-
couraging start. Despite delay in
delivery of mechanical shovels
and failure of the blower early in
the term (it affected flotation
operations), more lower-grade
ore was milled and a higher-
grade concentrate produced,
which meant more wolfram units
for sale. Here are production
and recovery figures:
1947. 1948:
Ore milled, tons .. 128,628 142,641
Head value, WO3 .. 0.65 p.c. 0.56 p.c.
Concentrates, tons* 612.98 592.16
Av. grade cons. .. 64.7 p.c. 68.1 p.c.
Total WO3 units .. 39,107 40,335
Realised value .. £219,940 £276,673
* Saleable scheelite.
The 40,335 sale units of WO3 in-
cluded only 3022 from the flota-
tion plant, which also produced
7500 units which were stored as
low-grade concentrates for re-
Ireatment later on. Production
of sale-grade flotation scheelite
didn’t begin until May, 1948.
Over-all mill recovery for the
year was 62.5 p.c.; but the
figure for the last half was
72,46 p.c. as against a pros-
pectus target of 75 p.c. Unit
working costs were reduced.
In addition to ore sent to the
mill, the co. handled 34,032 tons
of waste rock from the ore-body
and 122,735 tons overburden. .
Average price cpalised was
£6 16s. per unit WO3. After
aflowing £30,000 (7 p.c. cost
fixed assets) for depreciation,
profit for the year was £78,731,
equal to 15.7 p.c. on capital, and
a 10 p.c. div. was paid. At end
October current assets totalled
£197,141, and there was £32,781
coming to sundry creditors. Ore
reserves were put at 2,948,383
tons, expected to average 0.6 p.c.
WO3.
Prospects of a better showing
at next balance are encouraging,
provided the price of wolfram
holds around its present level,
£7 15s. 6d. a unit sterling. At the
moment the dollar market
appears to be well supplied, but
there is a temporary lull in
Portuguese and S. American
shipment. The market prices the
ss. shares at 6s.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Hanko”: Urging him to visit the
dentist straight away, I left the boss at
the livery stables and went shopping. An
hour later I called in at The Shearer’s
Arms. The trump was draped over the
bar-counter drawing maps of the Needle-
wood district in spilled beer. I told him
now was the time to get his tooth drawn.
“It ain’t achin’,” he grinned. “Must be
cured or the nerve’s gora dead or some-
thin’.” When next I saw him he was
demonstrating the “long blow” on an
empty niner on the pub verandah. I
slid him into the wagonette and put up
the tailboard. Next morning he was
slumped on the tank-stand with his head
between his knees. “Tooth aching
again?” I asked him. “Arr,” he snarled.
“I don’t know.” He took a cumbersome
peek under the tank-stand. “Git outer
there,” he yelled at old Rover. “Yer
always puffin’ an’ pantin’, blast y’. A
man can’t jsut up with that row.”
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
“Billy T.”: When the Italians came
babbling into our valley their first
onslaught was on the birds, and it wasn’t
until after the use of some rather force-
ful “sign” language that Tony was
brought to realise that in this country the
pot is not the inevitable destination of
everything in feathers. Hostility gave
way to curiosity, however, when, at the
wrong season for mushrooms, the Marias
and Rinas began wandering across the
paddocks, bobbing down all over the
place and apparently filling the baskets
on their arms. This was too much for
the keenest of the local cooks, and it
wasn’t long before we knew that in
ploughing-in the sorrel and dandelions all
these years we had been destroying valu-
able vegetables. The next stage was that
queer seeds or mysterious cuttings found
their way into the home garden, and
after that anyone moving in to a place
that had been occupied by the grape-
fanciers would find, on the credit side
of the transfer, a good yegie plot. Thus
it was that when Bob Douglas bought
Sabatino’s block he spent a week vary-
ing his bachelor menus with greens his
stews had hitherto lacked, and most of
them he reckoned good; but there was
one upstanding plant with fine, fresh
leaves that puzzled him. He tried it —
and promptly rushed and chewed garlic,
another legacy, to get the taste out of his
mouth. Now when Bob pulls out the
makings he will assure you that while
he has at various times enjoyed sniffing,
smoking or chewing tobacco, the noble
weed is definitely not at its best in a
salad.
* * ♦ ♦
“Salmon Gums”: The fiercest and
most determined two-man fight I’ve ever
seen was f ought in complete verbal silence
in a pub in a small Westralian wheatbelt
town. Even the perplexed audience said
nothing while Rowdy Allen stood toe to
toe with his opponent and hurled back in
his teeth the unspoken insults which no
man of mettle will endure. Rowdy was
something of a mystery. He’d drifted
into the camp one day and somehow
delivered himself of sufficient words to
apply for, and receive, a job napping
stone in our road gang. Thereafter he
remained silent, an oddity amongst men
who were content merely to be strong.
He even drank in silence. It wasn’t that
he was unsociable. He drank round for
round with us and stood his turn at
shouting; but, having nothing to say, he
said it in fewer words than the rest of
us. After a few drinks he usually sat
by a table, taking his pots as they were
passed to him and nodding his thanks.
On the night of the great battle his usual
friendly smile was replaced by a deep-
ening scowl directed at a surly “snake”
who, drifting in from the fettlers’ camp,
also sat drinking in complete silence.
The antagonism deepened, became mutual
and finally flamed as the two simultane-
ously downed pots and sprang to their
feet. Five minutes of straight-out slog-
ging is a long time, and it was a gory
Rowdy who finally gazed down at his
fallen foe. “The blanky nark,” he
muttered. “Tryin’t’ steal another man's
thunder.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: We were down-country
after a mob, and, waiting to count out,
sought the pub. A recent stock-sale had
left a residue of blokes around, and as
Seventyfiver entered the bar he was
"I Wouldn't give him any more , Miss."
grabbed by a big pot-bellied cove.
“Gripes, fancy runnin’ into you,” the
bloke laughed. Then, turning to the
crowd, “Me ’n’ Seventyfiver, we come
from the granite country,” he bawled.
“Where they breed fat-rumped baidy
cattle and the men is really tough.” He
invited the old bloke to sink a couple,
and it wasn’t long before Seventyfiver
showed more pride in the introduction
that was bellowed at every new bloke
that entered —“Where they breed fat-
rumped baidy cattle and the men ish
really tough,” “Don’t stop long,” I
cautioned him presently. “I’ll go and
lift ’em, and check the count.” An hour
later there was still no sign of him, so,
turning the mob up the road, I went
back. The fat bloke had ceased re-
membering or caring where he came
from, and seeing me enter it was evi-
dent Seventyfiver felt committed to the
honors. “Me ’n’ . . . me ’n’ him,” he
announced solemnly, tapping the large
hairless pate beside him. “We come
from . , . frum shomewheresh . . .
wheresh they breed fat-rumped baidy
stockmen an’ the flamin’ cattle’s tough! ”
♦'• . * *
“Bon-yi”: Best approach to what an
atomic-bomb explosion looks like is 100
acres or so of felled scrub going up in
smoke on a windless day when the
humidity is high. Lit on the edges of the
area of piled leaves, trunks and branches
by men with flame-throwers, the fire
creates its own tremendous up-draught as
it burns towards the centre, the (hick
dark smoke rising quickly thousands of
feet up in a great column slowly mush-
rooming out as it reaches the higher
currents of air. Moisture-laden air
sucked in from ground-level rises with
the heated gases and condenses above the
pall of smoke in a vast churning snow-
white cloud of vapor. One I saw recently
of 100 acres on a forestry reserve near
Yarraman (Q.) gave an amazing “Bikini
Bomb” effect with its enormous head of
vapor. At such a fire, the inrushing winds
create tremendous whirlwinds that tear
across the roaring masses of sparks, flame
and red-hot ashes, terrifying to watch
coming towards one.
* * ♦ *
“Anon”: One of the surest things 1
know to put a mob of cattle on their
feet is when a horse, leaving the fire to
go on watch, gives itself a hearty shake
with a great rattle of gear. A good man
always first makes sure his saddle is
stripped. As a lad my Dad fhade my
brother and I ride a watch bareback.
Don’t know what a modern stockman
would say if he was told to dump his
saddle!
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I picked up with one
o’ them runaway sailors once,” Mat said.
“Big Dane he was, called Emil. Gripes,
y’ ought t’ heard him play the mouth-
organ. We’re knockin’ about up north
o’ Ballarat an’ you know how hungry that
country is when y’re battlin’ through it.
Well, we only had t’ stand up in front of
a pub an’ Emil’d get goin’ on the mouth-
organ an’ we’d gather a crowd an’ a few
bob in no time; that’s how good he was.
Great toiler, too, he was. Work like a
Trojan an’ could foot it with me at pretty
well anythin’ ’cept shearin’. He was a
fine big bloke was Emil, an’ the girls
used t’ eye him off, but we both shied
clear of ’em.” He paused, pondered, and
went on. “Funny. Y’ know, I knocked
about with him nilly six months an’
thought I knew him. But he tricked me in
the end.” “Tricked y’?” “Yair. We was
in Daylesford an’ he sights one o’ them
photograff shops with pictures in the
window. The big goat stares at ’em an’
gets all upset, an’ strike me if he don’t
grab his swag an’ say, ‘Yell, so long. Mat.
I ban shove off up t’ Horsham un’ see
mien missus un’ kids.’ An’ off he blows.”
“But how did he trick y’?” “I never knew
the cow was married till then,” Mat said
indignantly.
* * * ♦
“Bo”: Ned heaved himself up on his
elbow to gaze aloft as the whirr of wings
came from the gum overhead. As he fol-
lowed the flyer into the distance he said:
“Sulphur-crested. I had one of ’em once,
name o’ Barney. Sarcastic cow he was.
One day he got out and gorged himself
on maize. When I got back he was
flat out and could hardly move. Looked
a goner. His crop’s bulgin’ like a
sausage. It was a case of kill or cure, so
I sharpen me penknife, slit his crop and
hoist the maize out with me finger.
Barney swears a bit but don’t take it too
bad. But just as I finishes and I’m about
to put a coupla stitches in it he eyes me
off for a bit, then he says: “Strike me!
Do I have to talk through me neck now
the same as you?”
* ♦ ♦ •
“H.A.C.”: As to “gun” shearers (B.
2/2/’49), it was about the times of
Carbine and Musket that many good race-
horses were named after various types of
firearms, hence, if a horse showed a turn
of speed, it was said, not always kindly,
that he must be a “gun,” and the term
came to be applied to the fast shearer.
But the “gun” shearer was a sort of
human Carbine, fast, clean and a stayer,
and because of this became well-known
and always had plenty of sheds to go to
even when there were more shearers than
pens. Thus the more modern “big gun,”
which means “in a big way” or “well-
known” or both.
« * • ♦
“One J.”: “Wellpipe’s” apiarists (B.
19/1/’49) needn’t worry over the color
of their bees’ finished products* The
lacquer collected would go to fill up
crevices, varnish the inside of the hive,
strengthen the attachment of comb to
frame and, when thinned down with
saliva, to varnish empty combs and the
surface of completely-capped combs. It
is used occasionally to inter the bodies
of intruders, if, after being stung to death,
they are too heavy to be dragged out.
Slugs, snails and even mice have been
disposed of in this way. Pitch, paint,
varnish and lacquer are treasure-trove to
bees when there is a scarcity of natural
propolis. Carried home in the form of
small round beads stuck in a depression
in each hindmost leg, it is used immedi-
ately, not stored up for future use.
* * * ♦
“Muskeen”: Many years ago on
Moolpa station on the Edwards River
(N.S.W.) three station pets—a pug dog,
a marmoset and a dachshund bitch
—vanished in mysterious circumstances
and were never found again. Carpet-
snakes were blamed for their disappear-
ance. Thanks to “M.U.R.” (B. 19/1 /’49),
however, the mystery has now been
solved. It is quite clear that the animal
with the pug-dog-baboon snout, and the
long body on short legs, is nothing else
but one of the descendants of the tri-
angular mdnage that the three pets evi-
dently set up in the bush.
♦ * * •
“W.R.0.”: Alan Symington, in his de-
lightful cameo “Rain” (B. 26/I / *49),
says, “Sometimes it’s at night it comes
and you wake up and lean on your elbow
—to make sure.” He might have been
thinking of old Jimmy. Jimmy’s house-
hold depended mainly on well-water,
having only a couple of wooden butts for
rain-catchment. One night, after a long
dry spell, Mrs, J. dug her snoring spouse
in the ribs and said, “Jim, it’s raining.
Get up and fix the butt.”. Jimmy didn’t
take long to make sure. “Only a ruddy
sun-shower, Lil,” he opined, and was
asleep again before she could argue.
**-* • • ,
“Bon-yi”: Behind the admittance to
hospital of a meatworker in Queensland
recently was a set of circumstances
peculiar to that industry. Just before
his usual knock-off time he whipped a
few solid-frozen choice cuts of beef in-
side his shirt —just to help-out with the
family budget. Unfortunately for him,
the foreman picked on him to work over-
time, and the cold plaster next to his
chest for several hours gave him a fine
bout of pneumonia.
♦ * * ♦
“Dusty Mile”: Morgan, of the store,
having received his Commission of the
Peace, found himself ” elevated to the
dignity of the Bench. Perturbation took
the place of pride when the delinquent
arraigned before him proved to be
Hobble-chain Smith, boss-drover and
one of Morgan’s best customers.
Justice prevailed over expediency and the
prisoner brought a fiver. Later in the
day the subject of justice stamped into
the store. “Gimme me bill,” he de-
manded. Morgan was hurt. “I couldn’t
do less than send you for a fiver,” he
began. “Who canes about the lousy
fiver?” snarled Hobble-chain. “But
when you came into that flamin’ court
you were too stuck-up to say ‘How’re
you battin’. Smithy?’ to a man.”
* * * *
“Dick Turpin”: Dad and I tramped
across to Hogan’s to see the new tractor,
a stylish diesel job. Old Hogan’s chest
puffed with pride as he showed Dad the
intricacies of the new machine, and after
bombarding us for half an hour with
technicalities he bellowed to young Hogan
to start her up. There followed a round
of adjustments, setting of levers and re-
volving of the flywheel, and we watched
incredulously as young Hogan lit a tube
of paper and screwed it into a socket up
forward. Next he took what looked like
a shotgun cartridge and placed it in an-
other socket in the side and gave it a
belt with a spanner. There was a roar,
and Dad and I went for cover until we
heard the Hogans’ laughter. Then young
Hogan pressed a button and the. empty
cartridge fldw out past Dad s hand. It
was our first experience of the new cart-
ridge-start for diesel tractors.
» ♦ •' *
“Con D. Mine”: The ringer in a
shearing-shed (B. 2/2/'49) may have once
been the man who shore the most sheep
for a run; nowadays the shearer who
has shorn the most sheep at the end ot
the shed is always regarded as the ringer.
An explanation I heard years ago was
that when the leading shearer had done
a certain number of sheep he rang a-tel
to signify it was smoke-oh time; hence
the ringer. Another common way to
describe the ringer is to say that h
“swung the gate.” It is mentioned in an
old ballad of the blade-shearmg days
wherein the shearers are sbtmg m
Yanco ba Eden Pompadour,
S to gate at Netley in
seventy-four." Can any old kmgms or
the bright swords” say how that term
originated?
MY HAT!
The hats of a man may be many
In the course of a varied career,
And some have been worth not a penny
And some have been devilish dear;
But there’s one that I always remember
When sitting alone by the fire
In the depth of a Northern November,
Because it fulfilled my desire.
It was old, it was ragged and rotten
And many years out of the mode,
Like a thing that a tramp had forgotten
And left at the side of the road.
The boughs of the mulga had torn it,
Its riK.->n was nought but a lace.
And a bhckfellow would not have worn it
Without a sad smile on his face.
When I took off that hat to the ladies
It was rather with sorrow than swank,
And often I wished it in Hades
When the gesture drew only a blank;
But for swatting a fly on the tucker
Or lifting a quart from the fire
Or belting the ribs of a bucker
It was all that a man could desire.
When it ought to have gone to the cleaner’s
(And stayed there, as somebody said!)
It was handy for flogging the weaners
From the drafting-yard into the shed,
And oft it has served as a dish for
A kelpie in need of a drink;
It was all that a fellow could wish for
In many more ways than you’d think.
It was spotted and stained by the weather,
There was more than one hole in the crown,
And it made little difference whether
The rim was turned up or turned down.
It kept out the rain (in a fashion)
And kept off the sun (more or less)
But it merely commanded compassion
Considered as part of one’s dress.
Though it wasn’t a hat you would bolt with
Or be anxious to borrow or hire
It was useful to blindfold a colt with
Or handle a bit of barbed wife.
Though the world may have thought it improper
To wear such old rubbish as that
I’d have scorned the best London-made topper
In exchange for my battered old hat.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


“Wippegong”: Don’t let ’em tell you
that all birds that resort to camouflage
are quietly colored. For the ground-
dwellers —quail, curlew, plover, larks,
dotterels and the like —yes; they, and
especially their chicks, melt into the grass,
but sometimes the bright ones are just
as hard to locate. Crossed the creek the
other day and from behind the scrub
lining the road there arose a deafening
racket that invited investigation. No
trouble finding the row; it was all in an
old Gravenstein apple-tree, and the rain-
bow lorikeets had descended for the har-
vest. The soft green of their backs and
“Keep a stiff upper Up, Zuzu!”
tails blended perfectly with the foliage,
and the bright red breasts, flecked at
the edges with orange, merged just as
well with the fruit. And movement added
to the deception; as birds clambered
down the branches the apples bobbed,
and from where I was what appeared to
be a parrot would be shaken off and flop
to the ground, while apparently prime
Grawy would suddenly screech and fly
away. Trying to count them I would
not have sworn to more than a dozen
birds, though from the din I knew that
must have been a long way short, so
went closer and flushed them; there must
have been .fifty. Hashing around in the
sun they were no more hidden by th £ir
color than by their unceasing noise, but
when they settled again most of them just
vanished. Yet if one of the drab fowl—
a friar-bird or a mopoke, say—settled on
the same tree it would stand out like a
wart on Mo’s nose.
« * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: As the bloke who
started this dispute by asserting that
jarrah isn’t the hardest of Westrahan
hardwoods, let me answer the critics
who have been assuring me that jarrah
isn’t the hardest of Westralian hard-
woods. I’d let it slide at that, but they’ve
made so many misstatements that they
“OuT of my Way, shipper snapper!”
could easily be wrong there,
would make me wrong as well. “No. 1
Bench” comes closest to it (B. 29/12/ 48)
when he names tuart, York gum, mor-
rell and salmon gum as harder than
jarrah, byt he errs in describing gimlet
as the hardest of them all. A harder
wood still is wodgil, a popular fencing
material with a guaranteed life of fifty
years. Once, pulling a scrub-roller be-
hind a tractor, I struck a wodgil stump
that had been dead years before I was
born. The impact drew sparks from the
stump. But I wouldn’t place even wodgil
as the “hardest of them all.” The hard-
ness of a timber depends on the condi-
tions under which it is grown, and a tree
which has survived a lifelong battle for
existence may have a tougher, closer-
knit grain than a tree which, although
naturally harder, has enjoyed better Con-
ditions. There’s a hardy, prickly shrub
that grows in the drier parts of the
Westralian wheatbelt. Perhaps it doesn t
qualify for the title because you cant
make timber of it. For that matter you
can’t make anything of it. But if you
strike a good patch of it, and stay with
it, it’ll break your heart—or make a man
of y° u - * * ♦
* * * *
“Blime”: We were doing a job grub-
bing and clearing, and the usually
garrulous Dill had developed silence and
a thoughtful mien. bit I didn’t
intrude as he considered the distance or
pondered a stump-bole, but, coming on
him one day dreamily eyeing an enorm-
ous gum, I stopped. “What’s getting you
down, Dill?” I inquired. For a few
seconds he didn’t let on; then he turned
with a sigh. “S’pose it’s this job,” he
murmured, “flakes a bloke think, don t
it?” “About y’r tax?” “No. ’Bout
Nature,” he wbuspered, “It’s big. Y’
know,” he sighed again, “some folks rush
through life an* never try t’ get the
hang of it. Cripes, it gets me. I dunno.”
I looked at him perplexedly and managed
an agreeable sort of grunt. “The animals
’n’ everything in it,” he went on.
“ ’Course, a bloke c’n understand a rabbit
diggin’ a hole with a mound outside, an’
he c’n see the sense of a wombat burrer,
an’ a line o’ fence, an’ all that, but you
take a tree now, like that ’un there.”
I eyed the giant, and opined it had been
there a long time, “Yair, but don’t y’
see, that makes no diff’rence,” Dill
argued solemnly, “The ground was level
when that tree started, wasn’t it? An’
it’s still level. Well, what I want t
know,” he concluded, “is what the
blazes it done with all the dirt it shifted
t’ make room f’r them great big roots
an’ that stump?”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“S.E.”: Sam and Barney were expect-
ing a busy time on their property, and,
realising the gang of helpers engaged
wouldn’t appreciate their bachelor cook-
ing, they persuaded Mother Harris to
help out for a week or two. The lady
arrived a few days before the rush and
took charge in the kitchen. Been cookin
for men nigh on forty years, she de-
clared proudly. “You just leave every-
thing to me.” She whanged off a hunk
of meat and chucked it in a pot, mustered
up some eggs, flour and a few etceteras
and started in on the first meal. Soon
an appetising smell hit the air, drifted
outside and reached the shade where Sam
was mending harness. Sam decided to
stick around. At 20 minutes past 12
Mother Harris appeared in the doorway.
“Dinner,” she yelled lustily. Dm-ner.
Sam dropped the harness, hurriedly
washed his Lands, and presented himself
at the table. Mother Harris eyed him
wonderingly, waited a few minutes, then
walked closer. “What you want? she
asked politely. “Want? Er-dmner, o
course. Y’ called us, didn ty ? Y-yes,
but Well, sakes alive, I—l never
heard of such a thing,” she gasped. 1
didn’t ’sped y’. I was just giving the
meal a chance not to spoil, when toe
spuds is cooked in about ten minutes.
¥ ♦ * *
“Hanko”: A keen observer once as-
sured me that if stubble-quail had respite
from gunning for three seasons they
would be packed sardine-like in the pad-
docks, and knowing that the birds lay
around a dozen eggs to the clutch. I w&s
inclined to agree with him. That’s what
we thought. Reports from Western Vic-
toria say quail were never so scarce
there, and this a season of good grass
and bountiful harvests in a countryside
to their liking. Puzzling, because through
the war years and for a goodish time
thereafter, owing to lack of cartridges,
quail were hardly fired upon. What s the
answer?
♦ ♦ * •
“Horseless H.”: Can any of the
Council explain how a skate can eat an
oyster in the shell? At Mallacoota Inlet
(Vic.) today the shallow flats are lined
with stake-fences which were placed there
to keep the big flat fish from intruding on
the old oyster-leases in the days before
the beds were killed by a fresh in the
inlet. Although the former oysteimen
say that without a fence you can get no
oysters, not one can explain how these
underwater pirates dealt with the (bi-
valves.
* * * *
“Chuck”: The all-stations broadcast
coincided with the Simpkins’ yearly shop-
ping excursion to the district centre, and
its purport called for a review of their
carefully-compiled shopping-list. “Yair;
now there’s this noo dress y’ve got writ
down, Mum,” began the old bloke. “Do
y’ think y’ c’d' do without it?” “Well,
I’ve had this one four years, Dad,” was
the reply. “The pattern’s faded out in
places, and it’s got short, and rather
tight, but. . . yes, I suppose I could make
it do a while.” “Awright.” Dad ran a
pencil through the item. “And this door-
mat. C’d we do without that?” “Oh,
yes, we’ve been using a cornsack a long
time now,” Mum answered, “and it isn’t
bad.” “Awright. Now, these workin’
pants,” continued Dad. “D’ y’ think”-
“No, I don’t,” Mum protested decidedly.
“Your others are nothing but patches.
and” “Awright, Mum, awright,” he
soothed hastily. “But these t’marters. Wo
don’t need them. Nor this roast o’ beef.
Got t’ do without luxuries now. An’ what
about the cups?” “We’ve only two left.
Dad, not counting the pannikins,” Mum
explained. “Yes, I think we really need
those cups.” “Well, there’s some things
we’ve done without,” said Dad, as he
threw down the pencil. “Y* know what
Chifley said. Gripes, Mum, if it’s gonna
save the country from inflation, I tell y*
we just got t’ spend less! Them poor
politicians in Canberra seem real worried
about it.”
* * * ♦
“Lower Tops’!”: Gannets sit on the
water to digest their food all right (B.
26/1/’49). In Balcomb Bay, off Mt.
Martha (Vic), I watched a flock of the
brown-and-white fliers work a shoal of
fish. For days the birds came
in at 150 ft., peeled off and dived
almost vertically like loaded
darts. Eight to ten seconds
were spent underwater and
always half as long as that again
on the surface before taking
off to come over again. All the
time there were 500 birds on
the shoal, and half a mile away
a similar mob spelling on the
water. But there is little fight
in gannets. At island rookeries
in Bass Strait I’ve seen silver
gulls—which they might have finished-off
with a snap of their beaks —pirating the
fish disgorged by gannets at nests for
their youngsters. Also, fishermen and
naturalists who have landed on the little-
visited rockbound islands off southern
Tasmania, the home of the brown gannet,
have found they can go up to the birds
on the roosts there and stroke them as if
they were pets. In this manner, 110
years ago, Gould, the birdman, caught
five alive by hand on the Action Isles
off Research.
* * * ♦
“Old-timer”: Bill drained the 4gal,
tin of kero, into the fuel-tank, put the tin
down, screwed on the cap and shoved the
tin clear with his foot. The engine was
running sweetly, so he Went up the bank
and across to the lucerne-patch to see
how the water was doing. It was a lovely
morning, and, after adjusting a couple of
channel ports. Bill leaned on his shovel
and admired the scene, hearing the steady
popping of the engine in its shed. Then
a loud report shocked the morning air,
followed by a tearing clatter. Bill jumped
a foot in the air, and was running when
his feet hit the ground. He burst into the
engine-house expecting to see ruin and
desolation. The engine chattered on, the
pump gurgled away, nothing seemed
changed. Bill pottered around and, still
mystified, went back to the lucerne. The
thing baffled him until the pumping was
finished. Then, draining the pump-well,
he found a battered 4-gal. tin. It had
evidently been snatched up by the belt,
whirled round the pulley and hurled into
the well. “Bin all the same,” said,
“if it had bin me demijohn o’ beer.”
*** * ♦
“Zake”: Were I a grazier I’d go in for
oleanders in a big way as a station-
homestead shrub —blowflies will come
from miles around to get at their favorite.
And they are also death to the pests. Of
prolific flowering habit, the blooms of the
oleander lure the blowy in after the con-
cealed honey which is well up out of
reach. The fly pokes his tongue out to
get it and is trapped —how, I haven’t
found out. But the mortality rate is high.
* * ♦ ♦
“K.Mc.”: The Chrysalina species of
beetles, liberated among St. John’s wort
in Victoria and S.A. and, to a lesser
extent, in N.S.W., are giving such good
results that it is anticipated that soon
that pest will be brought under control.
These beetles, about iin. long, bronze-
black in color, first eat the bottom leaves,
then climb up to clean up the flowers.
After eating any stray leaves as they
crawl downward mating begins. The
females deposit their eggs in the ground.
The parent beetles then die, but the
larvae grubs which hatch from the eggs
burrow into and attack the roots of the
wort. Since being liberated in 1946 the
Chrysalina have left only an odd plant on
some hundreds of infested acres in the
Clare district (S.A.) and at Bright (Vic.).
When one patch is cleaned up they fly
to another. Beetles have also been
liberated in infested areas at Mudgee and
Rylstone (N.S.W.).
* * * *
“Muskeen”: There are eight branches
of the Pardalotus or diamond-bird family
(B. 26/1/’49) in Australia, and at least
one member of the group is to be found
in every part of the continent. All
varieties make their nests in tree-holes,
with the exception of the spotted-
diamond-bird, which builds its nest at
the end of a yard-long tunnel which it
excavates in a bank. This nest, which is
of narrow bark strips, is generally lined
with feathers, and a hole for entry and
exit is left in its side. Perhaps the boring
of the nest-tunnel gave this bird the
sobriquet of “miner.”
THE PLUNGER.
He never was a friend of mine, although I ve
known him many a year,
I met him first in ’eighty-nine, and sometimes
shared his smokes and beer.
But later on I came to know that beer was not
the all to him,
That Life was but an empty show, the sun itself
was grey and dim,
Without the horses, fast or slow, without the
ardor and the call,
That racing lends a punter’s life. He simply
could not work at all,
Without the certainty and doubt that keeps us
all on tenterhooks.
Without the fascinating dream of one day
smashing all the books.
He lived, he said, for horse alone, and studied
pedigree and weight,
He gnawed his frugal breakfast bone, the sport-
ing page beside his plate.
And at the office every day he’d call up
“Barney” or “The Count,”
And in his rather haughty way invest some
fabulous amount.
And so he went on, year by year, and ever
with a princely dash,
He seemed to know no sort of fear, and have
immense supplies of cash.
He’d never bet the humble bob, nor even put
it on in quids;
He betted like a blooming nob, for tens and
ponies were his bids!
I’m sure that you will understand how his
• finances puzzled us.
Why work, if he could lay his hand on lucre
so splendiferous?
We knew, the simple truth to speak, six lonely
2uids was all the pay
rew each passing working week; whence
came the cash to bet that way?
You ask, “But did he not, with all this plung-
ing, make a bit
Upon some long and lucky shot?” If so, we
never heard of it.
I work with him now every day; he telephones
to bookies still,
And in his rather haughty way calls “Dan’
and “George” and “Sam” and “Bill.”
And throws the twenty-fives away,'as carelessly
as ever yet.
And loves to hear the juniors say, “My oath,
this bloke knows how to bet!”
But he impresses me no more; I’ve found his
betting system out;
Though learned he is in racing lore (of that
there is no faintest doubt)
I know that never, never yet, has he risked
threepence on a race.
I know that every blessed bet is ne’er recorded,
win or place.
He never telephoned a book, although he knew
them all by name,
The odds (I know) he never took, the blighter
simply wasn’t game.
I caught him out the other day, when he was
’phoning to some book,
He chatted busily away—but kept his finger
on the hook!
QUEENSLAND.
JOCK ELLIOTT.


Business,Rollery,Etc.
Afforestation Fty., Ltd.
The Victorian Government,
which has taken an exploratory
interest in the affairs of at least
one Melbourne - domiciled
forestry concern, should imme-
diately start rooting into the con-
duct of a couple more. They
are Afforestation Pty., Ltd., and
Afforestation (Aust.) Pty., Ltd. —
both of 140 Queen-street, Mel-
bourne —which charged a variety
of stiff prices for acre-lots of
pine-trees in the days when mugs
fell for that sort of thing more
readily than they did for “Labor”
politics.
“Days should speak, and
multitude of years should teach
wisdom,” says the Book of Job.
Days Were not long enough for
those to whom salesmen, (or
magsmen) sold forestry bonds to
learn wisdom ; it has taken many
years for people lured into these
fantastic speculations to learn
the folly of their ways—and
realise the humbug and irrespon-
sibility in the sales-talk which
tempted them to part with their
money.
The two Afforestation pro-
prietaries mentioned started off
away back in the dimming past
of the mneteen-twenties. They
planted 25,000 acres with pine-
trees. One series of “forestry
bonds” appears to have begun in
1926; another lot relating to
1000 acres of New Zealand pine
plantations carries the date of
1928. In 1934 a Sydney woman
agreed to pay £75 for an acre-
lot in the plantations disposed of
by Afforestation Pty. A year
later she was persuaded to take
two acres at £4O an acre in
Afforestation (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.
There were thousands of other
people like her. Directors who
signed the bonds were in each
case the same.
The Bulletin became curious
about the numerous forestry-
bond stunts very early in their
history, and told people in plain
language to leave them alone. It
appeared that bondholders al-
ways came a bad second after the
interests of shareholders, who
were generally in the box-seat.
In February, 1930, “The ‘Wild
Cat’ Monthly” had this to say
about the bond offer of Affor-
estation (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.:
This is a Melbourne co. carrying
on afforestation in Maoriland. It has
bought land—2s,ooo acres is men-
tioned—near Lake Taupo, in the
Rotorua district, and is now asking
the public to buy “acre-lots” for £3O
each. These allotments the co. agrees
to plant with 680 pine-trees each, and
maihtdin them until the trees are
harvested, or for 30 years, whichever
happens to be the shorter period.
The prospectus, a vague and uncer-
tain document, holds out the follow-
ing: “The profits from an investment
of this kind, while deferred, are cer-
tain and sure, and are based from
actual results obtained from Pinus
instgrids recently milled. The rate of
returns can be safely put at least
from £5OO and upwards per acre, as
the values of timber are increasing
each year.”
The above statement, it should be
noted, is not a promise, nor would
the co. be in any way bound by it.
Section 15 of the form of agreement
which intending speculators are asked
to sign says: “The terms and condi-
tions hereinbefore set out are the
only terms and conditions affecting
this contract.” No gharanteed return
is specified in the contract itself.
And if there was it would not make
much difference unless there was a
substantial share capital behind the
venture. On that point, as well as
many ‘others, the prospectus leaves
the public in the dark.
But the bond-selling campaigns
of the many New Zealand
forestry companies, wherever
their domicile, went on at a fast
pace. Go-getters swarmed over
the Australian continent, some
of them working crooked rackets
that had no sanction from their
employers the forestry-bond
companies. Even during the de-
pression of the early 1930’s there
was a wide sale of forestry
bonds, and Woolcott-Forbes,
otherwise Louis Brandi, was be-
coming well-known among the
share-pushing fraternity.
The forestry-bond companies
themselves issued booklets and
sales-literature that was extrava-
gantly worded. In 1934 The
Bulletin commented ironically
on another “prospectus” of
Afforestation (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.:
Depressions may come and timber
may slump; rayon and wood-pulp
manufacturers may, in their struggle
for existence, be cutting each other’s
throats; hut this co.’s optimism re-
mains unshaken. It has something
to sell. Acres of pumice-loam in
Maoriland planted with pine-trees.
The booklet drips with captivating
pages heavy with ink: “The Natural
Wealth of the World”; “Wealth
Greater than the Richest Diamond
Mines.” There is a photo, of the
late Lord Burnham, smiling and
affluent.
But how to attain this wealth that
would put Kimberley to shame? “If
your vision is limited,” opportunity
will pass you by. “Your natural
courage, combined with judicious
reasoning, only requires guidance,
and wealth beyond your most san-
guine hopes can be slowly building
up for you in the years to come.”
Having thus aroused all your capital-
istic instincts, the booklet “lea'ds you
to the point of our story. Is there
money to be made in growing trees
for profit?”
There is. And by you. At least,
the prospectus says so. You pay £35
an acre, and are bound by 13 (don’t
be superstitious!) clauses of an agree-
ment. Afforestation (Aust.) Pty., Ltd.,
will “reap no benefit from the product
until each lot-holder receives £750
net.” The cost of bringing an acre
of Pinus insignis to maturity, includ-
ing land and selling costs, has been
estimated by Timberlands Woodpulp
at £l2. Afforestation Pty. asks £35,
and there is no mention of rebates.
One clause of the agreement—the
thirteenth —disowns the prospectus as
part of tile contract. The 13 terms
and conditions are the only ones
“affecting this contract.” They make
very dry reading after the gaudy
“Shake it up — you're still a fiver behind."
language of the prospectus, with its
alluring estimates (“balance profit per
tnfe, £1 10s. ; 500 frees, £750”); its
eight- and nine-year-old quotations of
profits, prices and opinions; and its
“we are informeds” and “we be-
lieves.”
The prospectus claims that the
scheme “has its educative side as an
investment.” But why pay £35 an
acre for education?
It is over 20 years since the
earliest Afforestation bond-con-
tracts were signed. The Bulletin
has never been able to extract
precise information from the
two concerns as to their own
financial standing or the situa-
tion of the bondholders. TTiis
fact, added to the extravagant
nature of the sales-talk in pub-
lications circulated by the con-
cern with “(Aust.)” in its name,
has put the Afforestation enter-
prises in a category of their own
so far as lack of frankness and
responsibility is concerned.
Now.an “offer to lotholders”
is being made. The pamphlet
circulated says it “is not a
prospectus, and is for the private
and confidential consideration of
persons herein mentioned in
Sections A, B, C and H.” (Each
section relates to a 1000-acre
planting.) It appears that, al-
though bondholders have not re-
ceived a razoo out of the two
shows, “the Afforestation com-
panies have fully completed the
terms of the contracts with lot-
.holders.” A fire in the summer
of 1947 damaged the timber in
the sections mentioned, causing
a “total loss” of Section H.
It is now proposed to turn the
four sections into a company,
Pine Bach, Ltd., transfer 1000
acres of 1935-planted pines from
Afforestation to Pine Bach to
help make up for fire losses, and
to issue 50 fully-paid £1 shares
in Pine Bach, Ltd., for each fully-
paid-for acre-lot owned by bond-
holders. At the same time, these
lotholders are being asked to sub-
scribe for an additional two £1
shares (or more) per lot, payable
in cash, to the extent of £BOOO
altogether. This new capital will
carry, for every £1 subscribed,
one vote in the new co., as
against one vote for every 50
shares issued in respect of acre-
lots. And, unless they subscribe
for the cash-paid shares, lot-
holders will not be entitled to sit on
the board of the new company.
This horrible let-down —this
anticlimax to the £750-profit-
per-acre-in-20-years story—and
another matter are conditions of
the proposed reconstruction that
should bring the Victorian Gov-
ernment into the picture imme-
diately. The other matter is the
fact that the original Afforesta-
tion companies are not publish-
ing their own financial position,
nor, in the meagre details of the
“private and confidential” offer,
indicating any inclination to
hand over their own funds to
lotholders in appropriate pro-
portions.
It can no doubt be contended
that, whatever profits, huge
or otherwise, the two Afforesta-
tion companies have made out of
their bond-selling and land trans-
actions, they are legally entitled
to them. But New Zealand Per-
petual Forests also had a legal
right to surplus moneys remain-
ing after “completion of con-
tracts,” yet it transferred large
sums to N.Z. Forest Products
when bondholders became incor-
porated, And large trust funds
were handed over by Timber-
lands Woodpulp to Whakatane
Paper Mills when bondholders
and shareholders were incor-
porated into one company.
Anyway, the shareholders in
Afforestation (Aust.) *Pty., Ltd.,
its directors and secretary
ought to be very happy to
buy into the forestry side
of Pine Bach, Ltd., firs-
damage and all, even on the
basis of £5O an acre. All they
should need to persuade them to
sign on the dotted line is a re-
reading of that astonishing pros-
pectus (“all rights reserved”)
criticised by The Bulletin in
1934—“ Wealth Greater than
the Richest Diamond Mines,”
and all that sort of thing.
“Piecrust Prosperity”
After squirming uneasily for
six months since N.Z.’s “new-
look” pound stalled off imminent
moves for pay-rises, workers’
unions in Maoriland have been
arming up lately for a big push.
They figure out that if they can
rock the defences, sufficiently in
a united offensive, headed by the
Federation of Labor, they should
break through and win a general
order for higher wages within
three months. The public—
mostly wage-earners and their de-
pendants—reckons that 10s. to
£1 might be added to present
weekly rates, and, splitting the
difference, sets 15s. as the most
likely mark, against 10s. in the
1947 general order. This might
be a shade high, but it’s election
year. Standards reached a
couple of years ago have been
gradually crumbling through in-
ternal pressure, and this hasn’t
helped prices, which are as much
a thorn in the flesh to M.L.
unionists as to workers else-
where. It’s the familiar spiral
again, with wages and prices hot
on each other’s scent.
Economists, stabilisation heads
and M.L. Labor bigwigs (the
last-named N.Z.’s outsize em-
ployers under Socialisation) are
worried about trends which be-
gan earlier than in Australia and
have gone further. Short hours
and fat wages haven’t given
Maorilanders more of the things
they need. Last year Leslie Le-
feaux, ex-governor of M.L.’s
Reserve Bank, warned against
false prophets who taught that if
wages went up all would be well,
and knight James Fletcher, big
man in the building industry,
ticked off employers for cut-
throat competition in outbidding
one another for men to the point
of taking them from one indus-
try to another. That road would
lead to disaster, declared Flet-
cher. Ex-president Bill Truscott,
of the Manufacturers’ Federa-
tion, waved the olive-branch and
called for “incentive-payments
based on production.” His idea,
shared with M.L.’s Opposition-
leader, Sid Holland, who aspires
to be N.Z.’s next Prime Minister,
is that moneyspinning won’t get
anywhere unless output is lifted.
Profit-sharing is making slow
headway, but the balance is still
tilted heavily the wrong way by
go-slow, strikes and bottlenecks.
“Piecrust prosperity” is as
much M.L.’s problem as Aus-
tralia’s, and there’s the same call
for incentives to boost produc-
tion, Too much money is'chas-
ing too few goods. Saving
doesn’t pay divs. while the pound
is shrinking.
The Sharemarket
Weakness characterised the
Australian sharemarkets last
week. Each year (“pegged-price”
period excepted) it has been cus-
tomary for Australian share
prices to slacken about the month
of March. Last year the break
happened earlier, and again it is
early.
The bloom has gone off new
issues of an unproven character.
A more sober outlook prevails
in investment circles, and a
stricter regard is being paid to
yields, present and prospective,
London View of Maoriland
When London’s Lord Mayor,
Sir George Aylwen, tilted at
N.Z. “third- and fourth-rate”
industries, at the annual dinner
of the N.Z. Society, in London,
he got under the skin of sensitive
company-heads “down under,”
and some of them reared up on
their hind-legs. M.L. socialistic
Labor planners grew hostile, too.
A lot of the bricks hurled back
Londonwards were so poorly
aimed they went wide of the
mark, and Aylwen just stood his
ground. He didn’t brand all, or
most, or even many, M.L, indus-
tries as low-rate, but said M.L.
had industries of that class, and
that they weren’t helping M.L. or
John Bull. This wasn’t his first
smack at New Zealand.
A bit over a year ago, after
nine weeks in N.Z., he warned
Maorilanders that their whole
economic structure needed care-
ful watching, said there was a
tendency to move away from
basic industries and concentrate
on very secondary industries,”
and predicted that “mushroom
industries” set up in N.Z. behind
import and financial controls
might not be able to survive a
turn in the economic tide, which
must come sooner or later. He
didn’t think such industries could
hold their own in any sort of
stabilised world.
It isn’t difficult to find Maori-
landers who agree with him.
N.Z. should put all its effort into
its basic industries and into those
which, for quality and finish,
could hold their own in any com-
pany, was his advice. Then in-
dustry generally wouldn’t be
undercapitalised, M.L. has got
well away from Empire co-
operation of the brand that
appeals to this Londoner. An-
thony Eden, touring M.L., said
John Bull wanted more food-
stuffs and wanted to sell M.L.
more goods, but wouldn’t be
drawn further.
Gibson Battle and Co.
Having lately written up its
capital from £82,500 to £150,000
by bonus distributions, Gibson
Battle and Co. Pty. proposes to
double the figure again, and is
offering the public 75,000 £1
ords, and 75,000 £l5 p.c. prefs.,
both at par. The co. has steadily
developed its 65 - year - old
machinery - importing business,
and has extended into the manu-
facturing field as well. Its Alex-
andria (Sydney) factory turns out
mine machinery, heavy handling-
gear and equipment for gas and
water utilities ; the castings come
from its foundry at Waterloo.
Fixed assets appear in the
prospectus at £119,518, while
current assets of £264,626 (in-
cluding stocks £184,531) are
offset by liabilities of £192,247
(overdraft £116,087). Allowing
for the new issues, net tangible
backing for the 75,000 prefs. will
be 87s. 3d. each, and for the
225,000 ords. 225. sd. each.
Some of the new money will re-
duce overdrafts, but the board
also contemplates big expansions
to the foundry.
Taxable profits for the 10
years ended June 30, 1948, aver-
aged £28,314. Transition back
to civilian production brought
the 1946 figure down to £12,714,
but in the two following terms
taxable earnings have been
£27,694 and £29,898. Deducting
ordinary income-tax on a public-
co. basis, about £19,300 would
remain as the average net figure
for the decade. A full year’s
5 p.c. distribution for both ords.
and prefs. will require £15,000.
Application is to be made for
listing in Sydney. Both issues are
underwritten by McNall and
Hordern,
With a flush of p.c. diys.
for 14 years, and a 10 p.c, “vic-
tory” bonus to boot (in 1945),
Berlei (N.Z.), Ltd., Auckland, is
one of the greatest dividend-
spinners in the country, second
only to Woolworths. Profit in
its 25th year (ended Dec, 19) set
a Berlei record of £17,713, a
gain of £2234, and left a sur-
plus of £6213 after divs. Re-
serves and floating funds are
now £12,561 more than capital,
lately lifted £lO,OOO to £70,000.
Post-war turnover has jumped as
the co.’s vigorous young chain of
five production units in country
towns has tapped new employ-
ment pools and eased the strain
on the Auckland factory, ham-
pered by lack of girls and
women. To bring its high-priced
£1 shares within reach of small
investors, Berlei split them into
ss. units at the end of last year,
but at 275. 6d. they’re too tight!)
held for the market.
*** . T A
Coolgardie Gold Mines, Lt ~
which is said to have dug out
some small quantities of re-
putedly rich ore, has a foolishly
high market for its shares. O
2s. 6d. each, they have been
pushed up to over 265,; there
are 200,000 shares issued, giving
the outfit a market value of
more than £260,000. With the
price of gold depressed, mining
costs high and labor har
get, the optimism of peopi
paying 265. or more for the
shares is amazing in this cyni-
cal age.


THE PAPUAN APINAIPI PETROLEUM
COMPANY LIMITED
(Incorporated in Papua 29/4/’37.)
Registered Office: C/o NORMAN WHITE, Solicitor, Port Moresby.
Sydney Office: Rannan House, 9-11 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Nominal Capital . . 1,000,000 Shares of 5/- each
Present Issued Capital 407,281 Shares of 5/- each
DIRECTORS:
WALTER MOFFETT MARKS, Solicitor, Culwulla Chambers, Sydney.
The Hon. Sir CHARLES WILLIAM CLANAN, MARR, K.C.V.0., D. 5.0., M.C., V.D., Company Director, Sydney.
WILLIAM H. TAYLOR, Solicitor, Bendigo, Victoria.
J. McAUSLAN RITCHIE, Investor, 55 High Street, Parramatta.
WILLIAM G. WALKLEY, Managing Director, Australian Motorists Petrol Co. Ltd., Buchanan Street, Balmain, N.S.W.
CHARLES HENRY BARTER. Merchant, Hurstville, N.S.W.
SECRETARY (Sydney Office):
CHARLES ALFRED LE MAISTRE WALKER. C.8.E., F.C.A. (Aust.), 9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
BROKERS TO THE ISSUE:
MESSRS. CLARENCE DEGENHARDT & CO.. 11 7 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MESSRS. HERBERT P. COOPER & SON, 105 Pitt Street, Sydney.
New Issue of 101,820 Shares bf 5/-.
Your Directors have decided to make an issue of 101,820 Shares to be
offered to existing Shareholders in the proportion of one new Share for every
four Shares held by them as at 28th February, 1949, payable as shown below.
Reasons for the Issue.
Considering the work already done and the work ahead, further Capital
is required in order to proceed, step by step, until the position is reached
which would warrant a decision for further major drilling operations.
The present issue is required to meet the cost of:—
1. Base and other camps on area recently occupied by five Com-
monwealth Geologists, two representatives of the Company and
Native staff.
2. Salaries, transit, food and medical supplies.
3. The appointment of a skilled American Geologist who has been
engaged to co-operate with the Commonwealth Geologists and
who will select the site for the next major drilling operations.
4. The engagement of a competent Surveyor and assistants to
delineate and map as accurately as possible the boundary lines
cf the Permit.
5. Other expenses likely to be incurred for the benefit of the
Company. s
Note.—The Directors have never received any remuneration for their
services and will not receive any until the Company is profit earning.
No consideration has been paid to Vendors and they will benefit only
when oil is found in commercial quantities to the satisfaction of the Directors,
and as set out in the Agreement with the Company on its formation.
Further Expenditure Worth While.
As pointed out in the Chairman’s address at the Annual Meeting in
December last, Papua and New Guinea, although they have distinct names,
are contained in the one island.
In the last few weeks, the Standard Vacuum Oil Company announced
that 4000 barrels of oil per day are being produced in the north-east strip
of Dutch New Guinea.
In Papua, the Australasian Petroleum Company Pty. Ltd. with a working
capital of some £5,000,000 is actively engaged in major drilling operations.
One of their drills is some 67 miles from our north-west border and another
some 30 miles from our southern border.
Such a costly undertaking would not be continued and persevered with
except on the advice of expert Geologists, and their and the Company’s belief
that oil in commercial quantities may be brought in.
Having in mind the above factors, as also the favourable and encouraging
Report of the Richfield Geologists referred to below, investors can assuredly
be of the opinion that our Permit No. 6 is one of great potential value and
should be developed to the utmost. t
Opinion of Geologists of the Richfield Oil Corporation of Los Angeles.
Dr. Mason H. Hill and Mr. Paul L. Dudley, two leading Geologists of the
Richfield Oil Corporation gf Los Angeles, with the co-operation of Dr.
Fisher, the Chief Geologist of the Commonwealth Bureau of Mineral
Resources, and Mr. Guppy, a Geologist of the same Department, completed
a Geological Survey of a large part of the Company’s area in 1947. The
Report by Dr. Mason Hill and Mr. Paul Dudley came to hand in December,
1948, with a covering letter from Dr. Mason Hill, in which he stated “Good
fortune to the Papuan Apinaipi people in this worth-while venture.”
Important excerpts from this Report are as follows:
1. “At least one and probably two of the structures on the subject
Permit should be adequafely tested with the drill.”
2. “The structures are adequately revealed by surface geologic
features.”*
3. “The stratigraphic section is probably thick enough (although
specifically unknown) and perhaps of the right lithologic types
to contain in correct relationships both oil source and reservoir
rocks.”
4. “Select a location for a deep test hole on the Lesi structure (in
the vicinity of the site shown on Plate “C). This structure is
chosen because it is the largest, the most clearly and com-
pletely revealed, the most uniform structurally and it is also
the greatest distance from the known occurrence of volcanic
rocks. The final choice of a drilling site should be made on
the ground by a competent Geologist (for structural position)
and a competent Engineer (for means and route of access).”
5. “Finally it seems appropriate to emphasise that the surface
geologic features, which are pertinent to the purpose of this
study, are very clear and that they point to the possibility of
oil accumulation.”
Particular notice should be given to Item 5.
It is of interest to note that it was Dr, Mason Hill who was mainly
responsible for the recent bringing in of the largest oilfield in California in
the last decade.
The recommendation in the Report that some additional and important
Geological work was necessary was at once adopted by the Directors. With
the co-operation of the Commonwealth Government five Commonwealth
Geologists of the Bureau of Mineral Resources have been carrying out this
work on the area.
• The further recommendation that the site marked by the Richfield
Geologists for the next major drill should be confirmed by some leading
Geologist inspecting the area, has been acted upon by the Directors. They
have obtained the services of Mr. Eric K. Craig, an expert Geologist from
the United States, for this work.
Whilst awaiting completion of the Geological Survey and Report thereon
by the Commonwealth Geolpgists and that of Mr. E. K. Craig, the question
of further major drilling operations as recommended by the Richfield
Geologists will be dealt with by the Directors.
Present Issue of Shares.
In order to carry out the foregoing programme, the Directors will issue
a further 101,820 shares of 5/- each in the capital of the Company. The
shares are offered in the first instance to Shareholders shown on the Company a
Share Registers on the 28th day of February, 1949, in the ratio of one new
Share for every four shares held but without regard to fractional interest.
The Share Transfer books will be closed from the 28th February, 1 949, to
7th March, 1 949, both days inclusive.
The terms of the issue are:—
5/- per share payable as follows;
I /- per share, application and allotment.
1/- per share, Ist call, payable 29th April, 1949.
I/- per share, 2nd call, payable 30th May, 1949,
I/- per share, 3rd call, payable 30th June, 1949.
1/- per share, 4th call, payable 31st July, 1949.
3A
It should be borne in mind that amounts paid for calls will be subject to
rebate for Income Tax purposes, with the result that Shares would cost less
than par value.
The full amount of 5/- per share may be paid with application if
applicants so desire.
Shareholders may apply for any number of Shares additional to their
entitlement as above, but any balance of Shares remaining through omission
of Shareholders to take up the Shares to which they are entitled by the closing
date will be dealt with at the absolute discretion of the Directors.
Applications for the new Shares will close at 5 p.m. on the 21 st day
of March, 1949; and should be forwarded with a cheque for the amount
payable to: •
The Secretary,
The Papuan Apinaipi Petroleum Company Limited,
9-1 I Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
No applications received after this time and date will necessarily be
accepted by the Directors.
■ Brokerage.
Brokerage of I £d. per share will be paid to the Company’s Brokers on
allotments in respect of the issue of 101,820 shares, out of which they will
pay a similar brokerage (1 id. per share) on allotments in respect of
applications lodged by, and bearing the stamp of, a member of a recognised
Stock Exchange.
All moneys payable to the Company are to be paid in Australian
currency or its equivalent. Exchange must be added to Interstate and
Country cheques.
Renunciation of Rights.
Shareholders desiring to renounce their rights to all or any of the Shares
to which they are entitled will be able to do so on the forms of renunciation
and acceptance obtainable at the Company’s office, also from the Secretaries
of the various Stock Exchanges. Such forms properly completed, together
with a remittance for the amount payable, must reach the Secretary of the
Company not later than 5 p.m. on the 21st day of March, 1949.
Message to Investors.
Having in mind the facts set out herein, all of which lead to the point
that the Company’s Permit No. 6 is of great potential value and must be
developed, step by step, under expert advice, the Directors feel confident
that Investors will make a prompt response to assure the success of the
issue.
In so doing, they will not only protect their present interest in the
Company, but also assist and co-operate in the discovery of petroleum which
is of such vital national importance to Australia and the Empire.
In accordance with Regulation 22 (2) of the National Security (Capital
Issues) Regulations, the following statement is inserted:—
“The fact that the Treasurer of the Commonwealth has consented
to the above mentioned issue of shares is not to be taken in any
way as a guarantee of the actual or probable financial stability or
success of the Company.”


battery
EXIDE.
-the first ignitiop
was an
battery was an
EXIDE.
*
—the first starting,
lighting and ignition
battery was an EXIDE.
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD., 44 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
MAKE
: First choice for y our car J
PERSONAL ITEMS
The übiquitous Australian again. On
an exposed gun-platform of a British
warship, one of a research fleet including
motor-torpedo-boats pushing into the
Arctic Ice Barrier, Surgeon Lt.-Cdr. E.
Boyd Martin is recording on his own body
what an ice-floe does to a forced-down
airman. He is attached to the R.N.
medical school at Gosport, England, and
has rationed himself to six days’ supply
of pemmican, cheese, chocolate aiid other
delicacies of an emergency ration. He
designed the airmen’s suit he’s wearing,
and is sheltered by a tent improvised from
a parachute. The guinea-pig will walk,
or be carried, from his quarters after six
days.
The Look of the month, and paying
for the privilege of public office in a
humid, crowded room in Sydney’s Town
Hall, Anthony Eden. The perfect
diplomat, striped - trousered, black-
coated, with a deftness of wit and
an observant eye, Churchill’s pos-
sible successor wore an Enzed R.S.L.
badge in one lapel and the local emblem
in the other. He was the first to officially
welcome Australia’s War II representa-
tives in Egypt. Flying from England to
Cairo on a highly secret mission just
before Italy came in, he stepped from his
plane and almost bumped into a dapper
little man on whose face was registered,
in quick succession, incredulity, dismay,
then intense dislike. Though unknown to
Eden, the small chap at once asked, with
obvious concern; “What is your Excel-
lency doing here?” When Eden
asked, in effect, what the blazes it had
to do with him, the other apologised and
introduced himself as the Italian Ambas-
sador. “I see,” said Eden. “I can’t
tell you today what I’m here for, but
tomorrow you’ll know well enough.”
Next day the Sixth Australian Division
landed in Port Tewfik,
Connections with early motoring in
N.S.W. were severed with the retirement
of A. L. Murray, the N.R.MA.’s touring
officer. To those roadsters concerned
about week-end spring effects, he can
recall when it took all day to reach
Bathurst oven a road holed like a Swiss
cheese, and hours to motor between
Wiseman’s Ferry and Gosford over Man-
grove Mountain. Murray was to the
motorist what the Sailing Directions are
to the seaman —he was the author of
N.R.M.A.’s free map service, and was on
the Standards Association committee
which evolved the national road-sign code.
Alec Nicol, his former assistant, succeeds
him at the N.R.M.A.
Some February literary anniversaries:
On the 2nd, in 1881, poet Rupert Atkinson
was born, and 52 years later John Le Gay
Brereton, poet and good mate of Henry
Lawson, died. In 1856, on the sth, anthologist
Douglas Slater was ushered into the world, and
21 years ago poet David McKee Wright {An
Irish Heart). Died on the sth, in 1941,
Andrew Barton (“Banjo”) Paterson. Passed
on on the 6th, early Australian historian James
Bqnwick, in 1906, and, in 1936, poet Frank
Williamson, Into the silence 45 years ago, on
the 9th, Grace Jennings Carmichael, called the
“Australian Jean Ingelow.” On the 14th, in
1922, both anthologist Bertram Stevens, one-
time Bulletin “Red Page” and “Lone Hand”
editor, and Walter Jeffery died. Author of
“Not Understood,” Thomas Bracken, left this
world on the 16th, in 1898. One hundred and
one years ago, on the 17th, Louisa Lawson,
mother of Henry Lawson, author of The Lonely
Crossing, and editress of “The Dawn,” was
born. The 17th also saw the birth of “Banjo”
Paterson, in 1864, and of A. J. Marshall ( The
Men and Birds of Paradise ) in 1911. Born on
the 18th, Arthur Patchett Martin in 1851, and
in 1913 Louis Becke, South Seas novelist
and a supercargo with “Bully” Hayes, died.
Novelist Dorothy Langsford ( Dwellers of the
Nullabor and Cooee of Glenowie) made her
debut on the globe on the 20th. On the 22nd,
in 1872, poet John Shaw Neilson was born.
Also on the 22nd, thirty years later, poet Robt.
D. Fitz Gerald first breathed, and seven years
ago poet Frank Wilmot (“Furnley Maurice”)
died. Seventy years old on 23rd, artist
and author Norman Lindsay. On the
24th, in 1817, Barron Field, whose First Fruits
of Australian Poetry (1819) was the first book
of verse to be printed in Australia, arrived in
Sydney to take up an appointment as a judge
of the N.S.W. Supreme Court. Born on the
26th, in 1863, John Sandes (“Don Delaney”),
poet and editor of the “Oriel” column in the
Melbourne “Argus.” Died on the 26th, in
1884, Dr. Chas Badham, whom Grote described
as “the greatest of living scholars,” and in
1905, Guy Boothby, prolific and popular
novelist. Marjorie McLeod, playwright and
producer, was born on the 27th.
A link with one of Victoria’s fiercest
periods of intellectual activity snapped
when Mrs. Elizabeth Mary Ovenden
died at Williamstown. She was a
sister of Edward Dyson, poet and author
of Factr'y ’Ands and oflier stories,, of
Will Dyson, Bulletin caricaturist, Mrs.
Harrison Owen, wife of the playwright
and critic, and Lady Lindsay. Born at
Ballarat, in the vicinity of the Eureka
Stockade, she imbibed radical ideas from
her childhood and was one of Victoria’s
first Socialists. Artist Dick Ovenden is
a son.
Hefty, iron-grey, with a clipped
moustache and a face-lightening grin,
Stanley Woodeson, visiting The Bulle-
tin, could have been nothing but tvhat
he was —chief superintendent of the Nor-
folk Force, assigned for 20 years to
Sandringham House as personal guard
to their Majesties. Here from Canada,
the super, recalled that a U.S. newspaper
alleged that Princess Elizabeth wasn’t
allowed out in the rain like American
girls. “I’ve seen her in a shooting party
nearly to her knees in stableyard muck,
tramping miles in the slush and rain of a
Norfolk winter.” Woodeson received the
King’s Police Medal from George V for
distinguished service to his family—when
the King died he organised, with 600
police, the funeral procession from Sand-
ringham to Wolferton station —and the
M.V.O. from George VI. Memories of
the latter include his imperturbability
when a Nazi bomber dropped a brace of
scene-shifters in the park where the King
was shooting. Woodeson is married
to an Albury girl, and is a relation of
Hal Gye, one-time Bulletin caricaturist.
Anew McMaster, in Melbourne with
his company of Stratford-on-Avon
players, has a world-wide reputation as
one of the finest Shakspearean actors
living. His first Australian appearance
was in Shakspeare—he played lago to
Oscar Asche’s majestic Othello. Later
he was Baldisare to Gladys Moncrieff’s
“Maid of the Mountains,” and that doyen
of musical-comedy actresses said his was
the best Baldisare she had played with.
After a spell in the West End in comedy
and drama he formed his own Shak-
spearean company in Ireland; it has
functioned ever since and become a
household word in the Green Isle. He
was the first Hamlet to tread the boards
at the new Memorial Theatre at Strat-
ford and has stuck to the Bard ever
since except for excursions into the films
—he played in “The Lost Patrol” and
ANEW McMASTER.
went to Africa to do it. The present
company was founded especially for the
Australian visit, and it has no fancy ideas
of sticking to capital cities. It has a
repertoire of plays for one-night stands
and will go to any town in Australia
that wants it.
“Cauboy”; The Ballet Rambert, like
the De Basil, has left traces of its influ-
ence as well as some of its personnel, and
it is confidently expected that a National
Ballet will grow out of the remnants.
At any rate, Gertrude Johnson, of the
National Theatre Movement, is prepared
to back her fancy to the extent of guaran-
teeing the salary of Walter Gore, its
principal dancer and choreographer, now
in England, but due in Melbourne in
April. Gore was responsible for one of
the most striking ballets of the Rambert
season when he and Sally Gilmour danced
a drama based on the eternal triangle
that brought down the houses. Miss
Gilmour has married a Melbourne medico,
but might be induced to return to the
footlights. Other ex-members of Madame
Rambert’s company have decided to stay
and join the new organisation.
As Dubois’s record indicates, there is
no mistaking Wing-commander Keith
Hennock, D.F.C., for anything but that
R.A.A.F. operational type the war
made familiar. Now Senior Air Staff
Officer at Eastern Area H.Q., Bradfield
Park, Sydney, Hennock joined tfye
R.A.A.F. in 1936 in Melbourne ; he went
WING-COMMANDER HENNOCK.
to Coastal Command in the U.K. in 1940
with 206 Squadron (Hudsons) based at
St. Eval on the Cornish coast —most of
the station was later laid flat by German
bombs. The Squadron’s jobs included
anti-sub work and nightly patrols to see
that Scharnhorst and Gneisenau had not
sneaked out of Brest. From England
Hennock went to the M.E. to command
the R.A.A.F.’s 459 Squadron at Burg el
Arab and then returned to Australia,
first instructing and then as C.O. of No.
2 Squadron, whose Hudsons, based at
Darwin, covered the north from Timor
to Kei. After that he was hauled south
for a staff course at Mt. Martha, posted
to Point Cook as station administrative
officer and then to headquarters, Mel-
bourne, first as Dep. Director of Opera-
tional Requirements and then as Dep.
Director of Organisation and Staff Duties.
From there he came to his Sydney post.
South Africa’s first High Commissioner
to Australia should be the right man for
a semi-agricultural country. He is Dr.
P. R. Viljoen, one of the Union’s lead-
ing veterinarians and agricultural experts.
He represented his country at the Ottawa
Conference, the Empire Scientific Con-
ference in London in 1936 and .the food
conferences in Quebec, Copenhagen,
Rome and Geneva in 1947. He was
Secretary for Agriculture and Forestry
before going to Canada as High Com-
missioner in 1945.
Back in his native Maoriland to attend
the Pacific Science Congress, after 14
years’ absence, Dr. Peter Buck, director
of the Bishop Museum in Honolulu. Buck
ranks among the first of the world’s ethno-
logists, his particular specialty being the
whence and whither of the Polynesian.
While in M.L. he will receive from the
G.-G. the knighthood conferred in 1946,
which was helped along by the valuable
liaison work he did for the U.S. Army
when they took over the Jap islands in
Micronesia.
Gone to Point Cook as C.O. of the
R.A.A.F.’s first staff college, Air Com-
modore Ulex Ewart. The choice is
sound: Ewart has been a staff man for
most of his career, graduating as a
lieutenant, staff corps, from Duntroon,
before switching to the other element, in
which he’s held most of the big staff
appointments. Last active-service post
was C.O. of the R.A.A.F. Pacific Echelon
in 1945, operating over New Guinea and
the Philippines.
Archbishop Marella, apostolic delegate
recently landed in Sydney from 15 years
in Japan, is a small, eager and voluble
prelate who was born in Rome and
studied at the Pontifical Seminary there.
He did three years of canonical and civil
law at the city’s University before
appointment to Washington. After 11
years he shifted to Japan in 1933. He has
immense respect for Mac Arthur’s Jap-
handling, and is impressed by the Allied
p.-0.-w. cemetery at Hodogaya, a few
miles outside Yokohama’s limits. Circled
by wooded hills, it sleeps in a natural
amphitheatre which was formerly a Jap
recreation and memorial park. A flight of
marble steps leads across and down a
lawny terrace to a pearl-shaped pool,
lying mute as a dream, the imagery of
flowering water-lilies reversed in the
crystal of its surface. And on its other
side 250 white marble crosses shining in
ordered array, a pretty mosaic against
the green, mark the graves of our
prisoners who died in Japan.
“El Verdugo’s” farewell:
Dead in Brisbane within three days of each
other, Patrick Joseph O’Shea and his sister
Ella. They were the last of a well-known
family. The father, a straight, slim Irishman
whose whiskers often graced the Jersey ring at
Brisbane Show, came to Australia before
Queensland was a colony and lived to see peace
made at Versailles in War 11. His sons, Tim
and Pat, were the doughtiest champions in
police-court advocacy in the early days of the
present century, when it was sometimes possible
to see seven beards on the bench and when
advocacy was of the resounding kind and
advocates took their seven guineas a day at
the door in sovereigns and silver coins. Hard-
working and vociferous, the O’Sheas had a tidy
practice, in which their only real rival was a
walrus-like old gentleman, almost more
vociferous than themselves, named McGrath.
Dealing in suburban land during Brisbane’s
period of greatest growth turned the O’Sheas
into staid lawyers with social leanings, a love
of racing—Pat was for many years
president of the Q.T.C. —and of travel, which
nearly led to Tim, who died in 1930, being
swallowed up in the Japanese earthquake in
1923. In his later days nobody would have
recognised in P.J., the dapper and affable
property lawyer, the hero of a famous occasion
on which a Hibernian Jay Pay, carried away
by his fire and oratory in a matter affecting
the virtue of a young lady, rose on the bench
and barracked. One of the oldest of Brisbane
Grammar School’s “old boys,” he had been a
solicitor for nearly 59 years.
Back visiting home-town Taree
(N.S.W.), knight Leslie Boyce, who looks
a certainty for the London Lord Mayor-
alty later in the year. At present Sheriff
of the City, he should, by tradition, be
elected to the office by the Court of
Aldermen. After acquaintance with
Gallipoli he took his discharge in London,
and practised as a barrister before enter-
ing Conservative politics.
Retired after nearly 50 years in the
public service, 46 of them in the Govern-
ment Savings and Rural Banks of N.S.W.,
P. Kearns. He had been a commissioner
of the bank for the past 14 years, and
had a hand in the opening of its Ad-
vances for Homes Department and the
absorption of # the Barrack-street Savings
Bank, both in 1914, A long-standing
interest in the man on the land, and his
travels to implement it, made him well
known throughout the State.
A brilliant young man, C. C. Culvenor,
M.Sc., has gathered in the degree of
Doctor of Philosophy at the Melbourne
Uni., the first student to qualify for it
in the university’s chemistry department.
It will be conferred in absentia, as Cul-
venor is working in the Dyson Porrins
Laboratory at Oxford.
Into the Silence:-
In Melbourne, at 64, John Herbert Rhodes,
managing-director and founder of Rhodes
Motor Company. In 1915 he turned from an
interest in motor-cycle reliability tests to the
then infant motor-car industry, and began build-
ing the present extensive concern.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 48, Dr. lan Ewart.
A graduate of Edinburgh, he returned to M.L.
and entered Wellington Hospital in 1931, spe-
cialising in obstetrics. During War II he served
in Enzed’s cruisers Leander and Gambia as
senior medical officer, and after demob, was
principal M.O. of the Wellington Division ot
the R.N.Z.N.V.R.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Harry Leggett, pro-
prietress of the Leggett Ballroom. As Emily
Cohen she was a noted child ballerina in the
Premier Juvenile Variety Company founded by
her'father. She taught the art to three genera-
tions of Australians.
In Auckland (N.Z.), at 60, Sir Howard Ellis,
a solicitor of Fiji. A native of Waipu, he was
called to the Fiji Bar in 1912 and served with
the R.F.C. in War I, when he defended London
during the Zeppelin raids, and was shot down
over enemy lines in France in 1916. During
War II he was director of manpower and
controller of national services in Fiji.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
Sydney has taken Britain’s Dleputy-
Leader of the Opposition, Anthony Eden,
to its heart. People watch his coinings
and goings, and he answers their cheers
with his infectious smile and a gay wav©
of the hand. At the press conference
on the day of his arrival he wore a
beautifully-tailored double-breasted navy
suit in the lapel of which was a N.Z.
R.S.A. badge. His tie was navy, striped
with a lighter shade. What is he like?
He has a very friendly manner, and is
easy to talk to. H© is tall, better-looking
than his pictures indicate, and his grey-
ing hair has a kink in it that must be
the envy of women who are going in
for the new short hair-do.
It is 24 years since the distinguished
Englishman visited Australia, and his
present tour of the British Dominions will
take, because of air travel, only 2\ months
as against the 6j 'months he took to do
the previous tour. He always wanted
to come back, and he says it is owing to
Mr. Churchill so generously taking on so
many of his deputy’s duties that he has
been able to make this tour.
Anthony brought Australia a heartfelt
message of thanks and appreciation from
the people of Britain for all they did in
the war and for the food parcels that have
flowed so continuously to our kinsmen
overseas. He doesn’t like the words
“migrants” or “migration.” He likes to
think of the people of the British
Dominions as members of one family,
and when they move it is only from one
part of the family’s property to another.
While he is in Australia he wants to meet
people informally. Being a trustee of
the National Gallery in London he is
particularly keen to see the work of
our artists.
He spoke of the welcome already given
him in Australia, and in Canada and
New Zealand. He spoke, too, of the
friendliness extended to him in the U.S.A.
On the morning he was leaving Van-
couver he was asked to speak for a few
minutes at the British Columbia Univer-
sity. There were 7000 crowded into the
armory, of all places, to hear him. In
Dunedin, N.Z., he spoke to a meeting of
from 3000 to 4000. This ended up by
all the Scots there joining hands and
singing “Auld Lang Syne.” In fact, they
did everything but bring out the bagpipes
in his honor.
“...We should not be prepared at any time
to make arrangements with any country, how-
ever friendly, which in any way cut across the
mutual interests of the British Commonwealth
of Nations. For us the Empire tie must come
first.”
That is from the speech made by
Anthony Eden at the luncheon at the
Trocadero, when he was guest of U.N.0.,
the British Empire Society, the Institute
of International Affairs and the Institute
of Industrial Management. As he likes
to think of the people of the British Com-
monwealth of Nations as one family,
that just means, in plain words, “family
loyalty,” and nothing makes for greater
strength. Cheers greeted his arrival, and
these were caught up by the 1300 guests
and lasted until he took his place at the
table.
Dr. Bean spoke on behalf of chairman
of the United Nations, R. J. F. Boyer,
Percy Spender (R.E.) and B. A. F. Camp-
bell (International Affairs). Mr. Eden
is proud of his R.S.L. badge which
president of the League Bolton presented
to him at the Lord Mayor’s reception.
He is as proud of this as he is of his
N.Z.R.S.A. badge, and wore the two of
them to the State Premier’s luncheon and
to the luncheon at the Troc.
Hosts at the dinner given at the Went-
worth for Mr. Eden were the British
Empire Union, the Royal Society of St.
George and the Millions Club. J. W.
Scott-Fell was chairman, Aubrey Hal-
loran gave the toast “Our Distinguished
Guest,” and Country-party leader Fadden
the vote of thanks. Three hundred mem-
bers and friends came to this, among
them Bishop Hilliard, Captain H. W.
Livesay, 0.8. E., and Mrs. Livesay, Mr.
Justice Herron (he is president of the
Rugby Union) and Mrs. Herron, General
and Mrs. Herring, Mrs. Florence Taylor
and Mrs. Persia Porter.
Commander Allan Noble, D. 5.0., M.P,
for Chelsea, who is accompanying Mr.
Anthony. Eden on the Dominion tour, is
the great-grandson of the first Governor
of Queensland, Sir George Ferguson
Bowen (1859), who later was made, in
1873, Governor of Victoria.
Mrs. Conrad Horley was the guest-of-
honor of the women’s section of the
Australian-American Association at the
Savarin last week. This was the associa-
tion’s first luncheon of the year, and
there was a great roll-up of members and
friends to be received by president Mrs.
Florence Taylor. However, she stood
up well to this pleasure, and to that of
introducing the visitors, and looked grace-
ful and happy in her long black lace
frock with its white lace yoke. With this
she wore a brimmed black hat edged
with white and decorated with large white
roses. Mrs. Horley’s hat was pink, and
the collar of her black tucked crepe
frock was in the same shade. Mrs.
Thomas Alexander, wife of the day’s
speaker, chose a deep-blue silk suit, and
hen small brown sailor hat had a pink
rose at the side. Secretary Helen Scor-
field wore grey with a black hat which
turned up gracefully in the front.
Mr. Alexander is the newly-appointed
acting-director of U.S. Information
Services for Australia. To list his uni-
versity degrees, his experience in educa-
tional work and his war service would,
without mention of his literary attain-
ments, fill this Letter. But mention must
be made that he speaks Japanese, German
and Spanish, So from this you will
gather his speech was worth listening to.
This had mostly to do with the drama,
and the forming of little-theatre groups
in the small towns of the U.S. This
would seem to be very similar to the work
done by the Women’s Institute in
England. But whereas in Britain
the Women’s Institute is responsible for
the work, in the U.S.A. a person versed
in the drama who goes into a small town
and finds no drama-group asks some-
body about it, and there, and then —
well, practically—gets together a group.
Soon the interest spreads, and everyone
from the banker to the baker joins up.
Then they read plays, act plays and write
plays. AH of which, as Mr. Alexander
says, makes for fun, as well as being edu-
cational. Mr. Horley, who is president
of the men’s section of the association,
gave words of thanks.
Back in Sydney on a visit, Mrs. James
Rogers (whom Sydney will remember as
Alice Gould) is busy linking up with old
friends. In the years before she joined
up with the Services there wasn’t a Little
Theatre group, or anyone interested in
the drama, who didn’t know Alice. She
was a member of the council of the
British Drama League, and for many
years she had been the hon. director of
the Players’ Club. Alice joined up in 1941
as an ambulance-driver, then she went
to Melbourne and enlisted in the
W.R.E.N.S. With the coming of peace
she went to England and married James
Rogers, scientist. Now her home is in
London, but her interest in the drama is
still very much alive. She speaks with
admiration of the work being done by
the Women’s Institute in forming dramatic
groups in the English villages. The
British Drama League is very active in
this scheme, their work being to arrange
the yearly competitions and to appoint
the adjudicators. Norton Trevaire photo.
For her first appearance with the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra, pianist Vera
Benenson wore thick cream silk. The
frock with its long caught-in-at-the-wrist
sleeves was cut high at the back; the
skirt was long and gracefully full. Miss
Benenson, who recently arrived from
London, was born in Russia and as a
girl studied under Annette Essipoff, later
with Schnabel in Germany. In 1924 she
went to London. She has played with
the National Symphony Orchestras at the
Albert Hall, and has given 25 Beethoven
recitals at the Wigmore Hall. During
the war she appeared for E.N.S.A. at 700
concerts throughout Britain, playing at
factories, aerodromes, naval depots, gar-
rison theatres and underground defence
plants.
From Melbourne
Thousands gathered at the Town Hall
to speed the Governor, Lord Dugan, and
Lady Dugan on their way to England
and to express in cheers and cooees their
affection. On the flag-decorated dais
the Lord Mayor, Cr. J. S. Disney, in
his robes of office, read his farewell speech
and then presented Lord Dugan with an
illuminated copy of it. Lady Dugan’s
lightweight wool ensemble was in Parma
violet, with a panne velvet beret in a,
deeper shade, the crown being banded
in a toning cyclamen ribbon. Her long
suede gloves were of palest cyclamen.
The Lady Mayoress, who presented Lady
Dugan with a sheaf of gladioli and
hydrangeas, wore a black tailored suit,
small white hat and silver-fox furs. Later
Mrs. Disney entertained at afternoon-
tea in her reception-room at the Town
Hall. Among her guests were Mesdames
O. J. Nilsen, F. Hardy, J. Solly and A.,
L. Morton.
Anne McDermott, who, as the wife of
Dr, W. McDermott and mother of lan,
who has just left Xavier College, and
school-girl Patricia, leads a busy life, still
finds time to devote to charitable works.
During the war she was one of Mrs.
Wallace Mitchell’s able assistants and
worked in front of the house at gala
matinees to raise money for war-time
organisations. A smart dresser, her
favorite relaxations are the races and the
theatre.
Lady Dugan, whose kindness and
courtesy to the wpmen scribes of this
city have been a notable feature of the
years of her vice-Royalty, gave a late-
afternoon farewell party for them at
Government House. The hostess, who
wore a frock of her favorite blue, was
attended by the Bracegirdle lady and
Mrs. A. A. Lord. Her Excellency will
leave behind her at G.H. rooms which
bear the imprint of her taste and person-
ality, for she personally supervised their
redecoration. One of the most valued
pieces to be set up in her London home
will be her “table of remembrance.”
This is a coffee-table, under the glass-top
of which will be arranged all kinds of
mementoes of her life in Australia. They
are the badges of many organisations for
which she worked, keys with which she
opened new buildings, and badges which
were sold for special appeals. After years
of living in the public eye, Lady Dugan
is looking forward to a simple domestic
life. All pastel colors are her favorites,
both for interior-decorating schemes and
clothes. Lord and Lady Dugan will live
in a service flat when they reach London,
for their house, which was badly bombed,
is not yet ready for its occupants. Some
months’ holiday will be spent in South
Africa towards the end of the year.
Asked what special memory of this coun-
try she will cherish most. Lady Dugan
replied simply “The kindness of the
people of Australia.” This Letter wishes
Godspeed and happiness to agraciouslady.
The premiere of the long-awaited
“Oklahoma” at His Majesty’s brought
out some magnificent dressing. Faille
and taffeta in all the jewel shades and
velvet and crepes in pastel tones were
popular. White ermine coats, white
Arctic-fox capes and mink, kolinsky and
sable fashioned many a glorious wrap.
The sweeping Medici coat made its first
appearance; of dark-green taffeta, it
covered a velvet Empire «gown of the
same shade worn by Mrs. M. Sallmann.
The American Ambassador, Myron M.
Cowen, with his wife, were members of
a distinguished auidence; Mrs. Cowen’s
striking gown was of rich French taffeta
with a dark-green background for the
pattern of glowing autumn flowers in
yellow and green. Accompanying the
ambassadorial pair were' the Consul-
General for the U.S., Samuel J.
Fletcher, and Mrs. Fletcher; knights
Owen Dixon and John Latham
and their ladies and the Harold
Rablings, she in a small black crepe
gown with a beaded bodice. With the
Premier, T. T. Hollway, was his wife,
whose aqua-blue gown glistened with
silver sequins. With her black gown and
white Arctic-fox cape, Mrs. Garnet Carroll
wore a small white hat, the edge of the
crown trimmed with pearls and finished
with white ospreys. Over a black velvet
gown, encrusted with pearls on the
bodice, Mrs. John Kaufman threw a
white Arctic-fox cape; her niece, Clare
Robb, combined silver lame and white
ermine.
Mrs. Desmond Hollywood added a
matching ostrich-feather cape to her
pastel-blue satin gown. Mrs. Peter
Parker covered her floral gown with a
velvet coat. A mantilla of pale-lilac
lace spangled with sequins added distinc-
tion to Mrs. Beryl Hadley’s pale-lilac
satin bouffant gown. Betty Jones, whose
marriage to Ivor Carolan is scheduled
for March 22, wore a shell-pink satin
gown, the skirt bouffant, the low
shoulder-line outlined with flowers. Her
mother, Mrs. Tim Jones, favored black
crepe romaine. Lilian Wightman added
a mink scarf to her sweeping black velvet
gown. Pastel-blue was Mrs. E. L. Cress-
well’s choice. The Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
J. S. Disney, wore with her white em-
bossed velvet gown a matching coat, the
sleeves of which were highlighted with
embroidered leaves outlined with colored
sequins. Gladys Moncrieff’s silver lame
goWn had a deep yoke of white net out-
lined with tiny crystal beads. Mrs.
Arthur Tail wore a jewelled Juliet cape
with her rose-pink satin gown.
Peter Russell, famous fashion designer
who numbers among his clients the
Duchess of Gloucester, is here to super-
intend the making of his designs, which
will later be worn by mannequins at
parades in George’s ip. Collins-street.
This Englishman considers |t ridiculous to
expect women living under present con-
ditions to accept fashions which are
simply a revival of Edwardian styles, with
unnaturally constricted waists and hems
trailing along the ground. He loathes
the fantastic in clothes. The French-
woman, he thinks, uses more discrimina-
tion in choosing her clothes than women
in other countries, With several basic
garments of high standard, she always
manages to be elegant, whereas other
women too often buy their clothes at
random and combine them badly.
First and foremost, his clothes are British
and as well-bred as a champion sire.
The frocks and suits he has designed for
the showing next month will show skirts
12in. to 14in. from the ground; the
longer jacket, with the backwards move-
ment ; low hiplines in tailored prints and
woollens. His afternoon-frocks show the
Princess line and full skirts, with the
movement coming from the low hip-
length. His evening gowns have great
elegance and he is introducing the coat-
frock, fashioned in heavy silk surahs,
whilst his colors include all the jewel
shades, with red amethyst, gardenia-
green and mango predominating.
A few autumn suits made early appear-
ance at Moonee Valley. One, in light
grey, was worn by Mrs. W. S. Cox with
a frilly white organdie blouse and white
hat. Another, worn by Reta Findlay, in
cobblestone-grey, showed the longer
jacket and slim skirt; a cravat of deep-
gold grosgrain ribbon, caught with an
antique gold brooch, afforded neat adorn-
ment. Mrs. G. T, Davies, an English
visitor, had large white feather ospreys
in her small black hat, which was worn
with a black tailored coat. Mrs. Fred
Hammond’s light-blue jacket-suit was
worn with a platter-shaped pink straw
hat which had pink roses set flat on the
brim. Mrs. David Harlem combined a
draped frock of black crepe and tricorne
hat of natural-straw finished with black
veiling. Mrs. David Ely’s navy suit had
touches of pink-and-white candy-striped
silk; her large hat in deeper pink straw
was covered with blue veiling. Mrs. H.
Bettle’s small navy toque, worn with a
navy ensemble, was trimmed with small
bunches of lily-of-the-valley. Black-and-
white-checked silk formed Mrs. A. Silk’s
jacket-suit; her daughter Judith’s silk
frock was white-spotted red, the color
scheme repeated in the white hat trimmed
with red pompons. Hilda Corbett, who
has just returned from England, was in
a peacock-blue-and-white patterned silk
frock and small white grosgrain hat. With
her was English visitor Mrs. Elizabeth
Knox, whose aqua-blue jacket-suit was
worn with dark-brown accessories. A
rose-pink wool frock was worn under
a beige coat by Mrs, John Mc-
Grath. Mrs. Ken Hooper’s mulberry-
angora frock had a pleated skirt; her
large hat was of pink straw. Mrs. Frank
Watts teamed a navy ensemble and a navy
tulle-trimmed hat.
Lois Whitelaw, one of Melbourne s
popular mannequins and models, has
announced her engagement to John
Down, of Brisbane, son of Mrs. F. E.
Down, of Wollstonecraft (N.S.W.), and
the late Mr. F, E, Down. Lois, who is
the eldest daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G.
O. Whitelaw, of Cronulla (N.S.W.), was
chosen by Hugh Beresford to model his
hats and to mannequin gowns designed
by Peter Russell, of London,


If you have a sensitive skin you’ll appreciate the
smoother shave you get with Gem. The Gem razor
automatically shaves clean at skin level and the heavy
superkeen' Gem blade copes with the toughest beard
without trace of drag.
Take home a Gem set tonight, including a Gem
Jet:
VS
0^
Razor and two Gem double
life blades in a serviceable
Bakelite box. Price is only
3/-
There's a smile
in every blade.
avow o o'clock smoow
akinb.
WOLFES
mtrtLUD IN AUSTRALIA
Nmlmfrs onsiMi rouiuu
w»» prtftlljr tad taart-dittl. but Hit ■l“Vs'S
tt* ittl (nwlbla luallly
c.x. aw “vscs
§N
i-arss ssisssir^K
, tni i n«i > a. gzt.
WB.ua. 12.
WOLFES
SCHNAPPS
The moderate
use of Wolfe’s
Schnapps has been
recognised for
generations as a
he alth-giving
stimulant.
•THAT
m
&
'fjp.
Who will protect
their interests?
Capable administration alone can carry out your wishes.
That is why your executor or trustee must possess highly
specialised knowledge, extensive experience, the ability to
make wise decisions, ample time, and solid financial backing.
Every beneficiary deserves the careful and unbroken
administration that Burns Philp Trust Company Limited
devotes to each estate. Write for a complimentary copy of
“Hands That Never Leave the Wheel.” This booklet fully
explains the Company’s many services.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell P. T. W. Black
Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER; L S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Telephone: BU 5901 Box 543, 6.P.0., Sydney
, ...... BP 18-4 8
THE SERVICE MAN
Britain's Defence
Estimates.
“Ek Dum”: Against the Com-
monwealth’s scheme to spend
£250,000,000 in five years (at
rising costs) on defence in all
services, with some special ex-
penditure on pilotless weapons,
Britain, with seven times Aus-
tralia’s population and about a
hundred times as much war-
effort to pay for as the aftermath
of 1939-45, has budgeted to
spend £654,000,000 sterling—
just over £800,000,000 Australian
—this year alone on her defence,
an increase of £125,000,000 Aus-
tralian over last year.
And this is regarded as pro-
viding for “only a modest instal-
ment of modernisation.” Higher
rates of pay and prices of com-
modities have had to be taken
into account.
The division of main expendi-
ture is roughly:
1948-9. 1949-50.
£ Sterling. £ Sterling.
Royal Navy 153,000,000 189,250,000
Army .. 305,000,000 304,700,000
R.A.A.F. . 173,000,000 207,450,000
Supply is set down at
£57,750,000, and some small
sums have been allocated to
Britain’s share in the Western
Union Command arrangements.
It is proposed that the joint
U.K. forces shall total about
750,000 —Royal Navy, 146,000;
Army, 391,000; and Royal Air
Force, 213,000; providing for a
manpower call-up of 174,000
under the conscription scheme,
of whom 10,000 would be for
the R.N., 120,000 for the Army
and 44,000 for the R.A.F.
Equipment changes will in-
clude the replacement of Comets
and Vampires by more modern
jet-fighters. Jet aircraft are
to be supplied to countries
within the ambit of the
Western Union, some of which
are already beginning to manu-
facture British types of aircraft
and armament. Overseas R.A.F,
squadrons, including and espe-
cially those in the Middle East,
are to be equipped with jet
machines.
Additional manpower to be
applied to research and produc-
tion is set down at 450,000.
One item of particular interest
in the White Paper is of deep in-
terest at the moment:
To prevent the dissipation of our
armed strength and to free British
forces for their true role, colonial
Government forces must be built up
to an extent necessary to deal with
the present disturbed conditions
The size and composition of such
forces is now being studied
Substantial progress has been made
in establishing a basis upon which
military co-operation within the
British Commonwealth could be de-
veloped. Consultation has taken
place between individual Common-
wealth authorities about various areas
of concern to them.
The air of urgency about the
whole of this year’s scheme and
the specific provisions regarding
production and other matters
give the lie direct to the sugges-
tions which have been made here
within the past week or so that
Britain proposes to move out to
Australia a substantial portion of
her production, or that really
specific arrangements have been
made about a definite scheme of
Australian co-operation.
All that has been achieved as
between parts of the British
Commonwealth is the establish-
ment of a basis upon which mili-
tary co-operation could be de-
veloped.
Military Realities.
“Ek Dum”: The Federal Gov-
ernment’s mysterious new de-
fence scheme under which, in an
unguaranteed number of years,
some yague works may be built
underground in the Kosciusko-
Canberra area has received little
applause.
The former C.-in-C., Sir
Thomas Blarney, remarked:
We have two nominal militia divi-
sions with very few troops—the
smallest force in thirty years.
General Savige made a plea
for “the implementing of the De-
fence Act in its basic principles
of equality of service in all cate-
gories of our population.”
These strictures brought a
feeble assurance from Mr. Ded-
man that “the country is better
prepared than in 1939,” which
means nothing, since in 1939, if
the O’Keefe family had been
here and had decided to take the
country instead of arguing with
it, it could almost have suc-
ceeded.
After allowing "Manus to lie
derelict for years and to be
stripped to the bone, the Navy
Department is now proceeding
to recondition it —with the help
of Japanese prisoners, it is re-
ported, which means in contra-
vention of all the dictates of
security. It would take a whole
year’s defence estimates to make
any impression on it.
There is no air-base in New
Guinea worth the name, nothing
"His formulary has improved beyond Words!"
to repel sudden attack —that is,
attack from air or sea in a
matter of about three months.
A highly expensive advertising
campaign has failed to bring re-
cruits for the R.A.N. It has be-
come necessary to bring in 1100
ratings to help man our couple
of small aircraft-carriers and
handful of ancient cruisers.
The R.A.A.F. had three squad-
rons of fighters getting useful
experience in Japan even though
their machines were growing
well outmoded. They were oper-
ating in ideal conditions. So
two squadrons were pulled out
and their keen young group-cap-
tain C. 0., one of the most ex-
perienced men of his age in in-
tensive aerial warfare, has been
sent to Kure to join in the make-
believe game which is called
“8.C.0.F. administration.”
The R.A.A.F. in Australia is
in an ecstatic condition just now.
In the week ending February 4
it enlisted a whole 71 recruits,
including 18 former R.A.A.F.
personnel. In the first five weeks
of the year 223 had enlisted,
“almost double the number in
any five-week period.”
However, the country has been
told again and again that what
the Government is really pinning
its faith on is its rocket range,
Mr. Dedman admits that this is
not so far advanced as the Gov-
ernment had hoped it would be.
It is perhaps a good job that it
is not made clear just how far it
is behind schedule.
Not that it matters vitally in
actual terms of Australian de-
fence within a reasonable period
ahead. Without trained man-
power ready instantly for emer-
gency the rocket and other scien-
tific projects on the tapis are
worth nothing.
The U.S. and Japan.
Mr. Royall, United States
Secretary for War, has now
cleared the air specifically about
the “secret conference” with
United States pressmen in Tokyo.
The story, released on Feb-
ruary 12—in Australia through
Reuters —was that on February
6 a secret gathering had been
called in Tokyo by a “high Army
authority.” To this even Gen-
eral MacArthur’s Public Rela-
tions officer was not summoned.
And the “high authority” pro-
ceeded to make it clear that the
United States proposed to clear
out of Japan and the Pacific
generally and concentrate on
European defence.
When this version of U.S.
policy was denied, the whole of
the pressmen sternly refused to
give away the speaker at the
secret conference. They stood on
journalistic ethics and did no
more than produce a supposed
transcript of what took place in
secrecy and make it patent to
every reader that the “high
Army authority” had been Mr.
Royall.
This all seemed very mysteri-
ous, since whatever secret con-
ferences. Mr. Royall was sup-
posed to have held he certainly
held an open one on the very
day on which he was supposed
to have issued his sensational
news about the American change
of front. This was reported
openly by the London “Times’s”
correspondent, Frank Horler, in
his paper on February 8:
In a farewell conference with the
press, the United States Secretary of
the Army, Mr. Royall, said that he
could not see any cause for pessimism
in the present state of Japan....He
said the country was moving with
great rapidity towards a sound
economy.
United States policies had the sup-
port of a vast majority of the people
here. As far as he knew there was
no difference between the points of
view of the Department of the Army
in Washington and Allied headquarters
in T0ky0....
This seemed in itself to directly
negative the statements that Mr.
Royall supposedly made the
same day.
He has now admitted frankly
that he was the “high Army
authority” referred to ; that he
met a section of the correspon-
dents at their request ; that he
did not remember being asked
many questions, since he had
been asked to meet the newsmen
in order to hear their view, not
to give his own. He specifically
denied that he said what he was
reported to have said. And he
declared that he had no know-
ledge that any transcript was
made of what took place.
In any case he categorically
denied that the United States has
any intention of withdrawing
either in peace or war from
Japan or the Pacific, or that he
ever said that such a thing would
happen. . ,
Mr. Russell Brines, head
of United Press in Tokyo, sup-
ported Mr. Royall in his claim
that no statement indicating a
withdrawal from Japan was
made. He declared that “what
he did say merely raised the


Tender.
MACHINERY.
TENDERS closing noon Wednesday, the
9th March, 1949, are invited for purchase
of portion of machinery of Evanston Gold
(No Liability)—
275 K.V.A. Alternator.
175 H.P. Electric Motor.
104 H.P. Diesel Engine.
104 H.P. Diesel Engine coupled to
475 c.f. Compressor.
99 H.P. Diesel Engine coupled to 62.5
Alternator.
84 H.P. Diesel Engine coupled to 62.5
Alternator.
8 Diesel Engines, 8, 8-10 and 15
H.P.
Kero. Engine, 3 H.P.
135 H.P. Gas Engine coupled to- 110
K.V.A. Alternator with wood
and coal Producers.
800 H.P. Gas Engine and Producer.
Sundry Machinery, including Port-
able Concrete Mixer with 5 H.P.
Diesel Engine, 7 Hoists, 2 Gyra-
tory Crushers, Sand Pump and
Vibrating Screen Roaster, 60
Rabbles (Edwards) and Smoke
Stack. _
All located at Evanston except 300 H.P.
Gas Engine, which is at Perth.
No tender necessarily accepted.
Tender forms, particulars and condi-
tions obtainable from H. B. HALVOR-
SEN, Receiver for the Debenture Holder,
Warwick House, 63 St. George’s Terrace,
Pertl).
Missing Friend.
WILLIAM MORRISON, last heard of in
1931 at State Hospital, Liverpool, N.S.W.
Usual occupation station hand. Any per-
sons knowing whereabouts of above, or
with knowledge of his death, please com-
municate with NEIL STEWART & JUST,
Solicitors, Wangaratta, Victoria.
Public Notice.
I, FERDINAND NIKOLAI FATHAL, of
Estonian nationality, born in Tallinn,
Estonia, and resident in Australia for 22
years, now residing at Chester Road,
Ingleburn, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality and
Citizenship Act, 1948.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO MILDRED ELIZABETH SARAH
BURGESS late of Enfield Sydney am
Adelaide.—TAKE NOTICE that WILLIAM
JAMBS NOEL BURGESS has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 8543 of 1948 on the
ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on
or before the 11th day of May 1949 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. CLIFTON R.
PENNY & DAVIES, Solicitors, 81 Eliza-
beth Street, Sydney.—(t.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO GEORGE WILLIAM HOWARD late
of Lithgow.—TAKE NOTICE that RITA
FLORENCE HOWARD has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3410 of 1947 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the
6th day of May 1949 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
McCAW, MORAY & JOHNSON, Solicitors,
75-77 Pitt Street, Sydney.—(t.s.) J.
DOUGHAN, Deputy Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notices.
I, FRANCESCO PAPALLO, of Italian
nationality, bom at Martone, Reggio Cala-
bria, Italy, and resident 12i years in
Australia, now residing at Waterloo Road,
North Ryde, near Sydney, New South
Wales, intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
1, GERARDO TALLON, of Italian nation-
ality, born at Veneto, Italy, and resident
21 years in Australia, now residing at
Woodpark Road, Smithfleld, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
I, lERAOE VINCENZO, of Italian nation-
ality, born at Caulonia, Reggio Calabria,
Italy, and resident 12 years in Australia,
now residing at Warrimoo Road, St. Ives,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality and Citizenship
Act, 1948.
there
a little
f
in your elevator?
SYDNEY
PERT
rrs
SSSiS 1552 * At ,o R,CM a „o «i2S£
• MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE • BRISBANE
• HOBART • NEWCASTLE
*lo**
lllOHt-
rqs
c£*£2
Architects and construction engineers who
write into their specifications, “Lifts (or
Escalators) by Waygood-Otis,” are assured
of specifying the finest in vertical
transportation.
Every component we make, every lift or
escalator we install, is planned from the design
stage, through production to construction
and final erection and installation, to give the
most and to last the longest.
Whether it’s installing the new, modernising
the old—or in maintenance service—Waygood-
Otis vertical transportation best serves the
architect or the owner.
W AYGOO.D-
Incorporated
(Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
in Victoria
%i 4 pie&MeoilC
thueiM
Hi
m
■■;■;■ ■■
r
■•: m JS :;.'
IT’S an object lesson for every Australian road user—a grim reminder of
the need for unceasing vigilance whenever you walk or drive abroad.
People who do not observe traffic laws and regulations make the roads
dangerous for everybody. It’s easy to walk and drive the safe way. Simply
know your highway code and keep it always. The traffic signs are there
for your guidance and protection. They speak plainly to motorist and
pedestrian alike. Obey them. Be alert and careful at all times
immmu ossi <uno
.l
W*
V. 0&? «
ISSUED BY THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL
(Administered by the Commonwealth Department of Transport)
R5V.23.8i.29
fundamental question: ‘ls the
United States bound to defend
Japan?’ Mr, Royall answered
negatively, but General Mac-
Arthur has said ‘Yes.’ None
of the reporters kept notes at
the time,”
Russia Fails with
Norway
“Ek Bum”: It is expected
that the Atlantic pact will be
signed in Washington or Ber-
muda early in March,
The Russian offer of a non-
aggression pact to Norway on
Feb, 25 was received without
undue excitement or relief in
Oslo, where the daily papers of
the little country meditated aloud
that so far non-aggression pacts
in the Baltic had proved invari-
ably to be followed by an excess
of zeal on the part of the
U.S.S.R. Latvia, Estonia and
Lithuania all achieved such pacts
with Moscow, and all were
swallowed by the Red Army
within a few months. Finland,
the Norwegian newspapers
pointed out, had a non-aggres-
sion pact with Russia when
Russia attacked in 1939. And
Herr Lange, the Minister for
Foreign Affairs, went straight to
London and Washington to see
what their countries had to offer.
Whatever he learned seems to
have been satisfactory. It was
reported over the week-end that
Norway had agreed to join the
Atlantic pact and abandon the
doctrine of Scandinavian
neutrality which cost her so
dearly in the last war. Russia’s
offer is being politely refused.
The Swedes are adopting their
normal fairy-tale attitude. Their
Premier, Mr. Erlander, declares
that the Government does not
share the view that Sweden can-
not remain outside any coming
war—and, of course, take the
benefits from a Western victory.
But, having been right twice,
Sweden will almost certainly be
wrong this time.
At the moment of writing the
pact is before the United States
Senate committee, in which the
question will be thrashed out as
to how far the United States will
go, and whether it will accept a
moral commitment to go to war
if any member of the Western
pact is attacked. Whatever is
agreed to, so long as the United
States is substantially in the pact,
does not matter. In the event of
attack by the Russians on Wes-
tern Europe, the United States
must come in. Her stake there
Will compel it. All that is being
reserved is the right of Congress
to declare war and not to be at
war automatically.
One thing noticeable about the
whole discussion —and, indeed,
about the general trend of
thought, as the outcome of the
effects of propaganda —is the
now almost universal belief that
without the United States all is
lost and that Uncle Sam is the
master of the world.
There are some very serious
qualifications. It seems to be
forgotten that before the United
States came, into World War II
—unwillingly—Britain was al-
ready turning the corner towards
victory. It seems to be forgotten
that British influence on the con-
tinent is more real and decisive
in policy-making than that of the
Americans, and that huge re-
sources are not all that is neces-
sary for a victory.
Even British Socialist
Ministers are becoming restive
under the sort of assumption
which all the New York and
Australian press meekly adopts.
In speaking of Stalin’s offer to
Mr. Truman the other day, Mr.
Hector McNeil, Minister of
State, told the House of
Commons that it was worth
while to wonder why the Stalin
offer had been made exclusively
to President Truman —whether
the Russians had meant to dis-
play to some of the small Powers
that they and the United States
were masters of the world. He
said he hoped that was not so,
because the contention was in-
accurate.
Russia and the United States
are far from being world masters
The Americans are being sadl}
taught this fact wherever the}
have tried to impose an exclu-
sive policy.
The Far East, Japan and
China in particular, bears wit-
ness. And Europe has proved to
United States leaders that in
many matters in which they be-
lieved they could teach and
dominate the “effete” older
Powers, they have been hope-
lessly wrong; also, that they
cannot alter racial trends and
age-old national policies in ex-
change merely for hard cash and
material help.
They are learning, in fact, that
some of the supposedly wrecked
and suppliant nations of the old
world are not wrecked at all, and
that the U.S. can obtain effective
and useful relations with Europe
only on a basis of the recogni-
tion of realities and reasonable
equality with other major
Powers, especially Britain and
Canada. This is all to the good,
and will be in the interests of a
general friendly atmosphere in
the West, particularly since most
of the countries remember that
the United States did its fighting
without receiving any direct
blows, the impact being entirely
taken up by countries which Ger-
many could most easily reach.
They say truthfully that the
real strength of the United
States will only be discovered
when an enemy is encountered
which can attack it at the source
of its industrial strength.


BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M.,
F.R.A.C.S.
J. R. Faviell
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle
UNAFFECTED BY THE
m
PASSAGE OF TIME
Your assurance of safe and efficient
ESTATE ADMINISTRATION
By appointing the Permanent Trustee Company as your Executor and Trustee* you
are guaranteeing for your dependants the smooth, safe and efficient administration
of your Estate.
With 60 years’ experience, the Company is able to meet the exigencies of Trustee-
ship with a promptness and ability not to be expected from a private individual. It
is a specialist in the management of all classes of Estates and Trusts; it brings to
the administration of your affairs a staff of highly qualified officers, specially trained
to meet the complex requirements of Trusteeship.
Write for our free booklet, “Trust Estates and Their Management,**
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY „
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
TITO-STALIN BREAK?
Although the U.S. views the
Tito’s Yugoslavia with more
than considerable caution, there
is a fairly widespread tendency
to accept the rift with Moscow
on its face-value. Examining
Tito’s expulsion from the Com-
inform, however, and the sub-
sequent deterioration of rela-
tions, Leopold Kohr, in a letter
to N. Y. “Times,” analyses the
whole set-up as a typical stretch
of Communist cunning—an
opinion expressed by The Bul-
letin at the outset.
“The Soviet bloc needs goods,
particularly capital goods, in
order to accomplish the long-
range dream of a productive
capacity superior to the U.S.
As a result, the idea that Russia
should desire the maintenance of
what is mainly an agricultural
economy in one of her satellites
is utter nonsense, the more so
as she herself has agricultural
surpluses. Her chief attention is
directed toward maximum in-
dustrialisation within her own
borders as well as in all her
satellites.”
As the Russian industrial
capacity is incapable of meeting
the Russian plan of industrial
development for home and in
the Soviet’s satellites—a plan to
meet the requirements of both
peace and war —the only solu-
tion is a source of materials out-
side the Curtain and a way to
bring them in. Therefore, “it
seems quite logical that Russia
should try to obtain the balance
Washington “Post. "
"IT'S THE SAME THING WITHOUT MECHANICAL
PROBLEMS.”
of vitally needed capital goods
from the only other economy
which could make them avail-
able, the democracies.
“Under normal conditions the
idea of such a move would seem
madness. Neither Great Britain
nor the United States could con-
ceivably be willing to build up
the industry of a nation whose
final products would strengthen
the war potential of the Soviet
Union. Obviously there is only
one condition under which the
West might be willing to build
up the industry of an Iron Cur-
tain State: if that State would
to all appearances be temporarily
expelled from the Communist
fold.
“By far the safest from all
points of view is Yugoslavia.
Her Adriatic coastline solves her
supply problem. The creation
of new industries with Western
instead of Eastern help would
produce a net addition to the
wealth of the Iron Curtain at
the expense of the West. Even
if the West would help only in
the construction of consumer-
goods industries, war industries
would benefit, since a greater
amount of Russia’s productive
power now held down in con-
sumer industries could then be
diverted to the manufacture of
arms.
“Thus, Yugoslavia may have
been assigned the role of being
temporarily the black sheep of
the Communist family. But, of
course, the West needed to be
persuaded that the feint was the
real thing if the desired results
were to materialise. Therefore,
a cleverly arranged pattern was
worked out according to which
the hostility between Tito and
Russia was to be increased by
gradual steps and stages.
“This method made it possible
to arrest the process whenever
the democracies were persuaded
of the genuineness of the break.
Great Britain, by concluding a
trade agreement on December
23, has already succumbed.
India and Italy are at the point
of falling in line. But the brave
speeches of Tito against the
Cominform, such as he deli-
vered on New Year’s day, will
continue and even gain in
dramatic momentum until the
chief prize is won: a trade
agreement with the United
States.
“Then, having fulfilled its
purpose, the process of ‘hostili-
sation’ will be stopped by Yugo-
slavia. And, when she will have
obtained all she needs from the
West, she will be as spectacularly
reconciled as she was expelled.
“Interpreted this way, every
feature of the Yugoslav-Russian
split, which otherwise is non-
sense, becomes sense, and every
clumsy bungling of the Comin-
form becomes a clever piece of
Communist policy and tactics.
If it were not so, there would
have been no reason whatsoever
why Russia should not have
eliminated Tito by a variety of
means at her disposal.”
The Marshal Stalin
Plan.
Since most of Russia’s trade
with its satellites has been one-
way traffic, neatly described by
N. Y. “Times” as a “psycho-
logical tendency to exploit,”
there is a good deal of
unconscious irony in the out-
line by the Soviet newsagency,
Tass, of the conclusions drawn
and intentions stated at the
economic conference in Moscow
between Bulgaria, Hungary,
Poland, the U.S.S.R. and
Czechoslovakia.
The conference “ascertained”
that, because of the successful
“development of economic rela-
tions among the foregoing coun-
tries, expressed in the major in-
crease in trade exchange, the
countries of the people’s demo-
cracy and the U.S.S.R. had the
opportunity of speeding up the
restoration and development of
their respective national econo-
mies.”
Having further “established
that the U.S.A., Britain and
certain other countries of
Western Europe had been as a
matter of fact boycotting trade
relations with the countries of
the people’s democracy and with
the U.S.S.R., since these coun-
tries did not consider it pos-
sible to submit to the Marshall
Plan dictate, as this plan vio-
lated the sovereignty of coun-
tries and the interests of their
national economies, the con-'
ference decided that it was
necessary to institute a Council
for Economic Mutual Assistance
to exchange experience in the
economic field, render technical
assistance to each other, and
mutual assistance in regard to
raw materials, foodstuffs,
machinery, equipment, etc.”
Summing up U.S. opinion of
the scheme and of any possible
effects on Marshall Plan coun-
tries, a N. Y. “Times” corres-
pondent notes that, to set south-
eastern Europe on its feet, the
Soviet would have to fork out
something like $500,000,000 a
year to finance trade deficits and
а. similar amount in cancelled
reparations obligations due from
its satellite countries.
As for the Soviet’s present
“economic relations,” the
“Times” writer cites the classic
case of Poland’s coal agree-
ment: “In consideration of a
$450,000,000 commodity credit
Poland agreed to deliver
б, tons of coal to the
Soviet at $1.20 a ton against
world prices ranging froqi $l4
to s2 °” arrangement was
about as “mutual” as Russia’s
loan to Czechoslovakia of
$23,000,000 at 31 per cent.—l
P er cent above the Exchange-
Import bank price for a similar
loan. There are many other in-
stances, all adding up to the same
Chicago “Tribune.”
“TIPPING OFF HIS HAND.”
“psychological tendency to ex-
ploit.”
Although the Russian “aid
plan” is opeil to any European
country which wishes to join,
those outside the Curtain are
probably as likely to partici-
pate as those within it are to
escape. On both sides opinion
must run pretty close to N. Y.
“Times” editorial comment that
“the Marshall plan means
something because it expresses
the fact that the United States
actually has a surplus of food,
machinery and skills which it is
willing to put into European re-
construction.
“The poverty-stricken mil-
lions of Soviet Russia are, on
the other hand, a vast suction-
pump, draining every territory
over which they secure control
in order to raise their own neces-
sitous standards of living.”
To which the “World Tele-
gram” adds: “The only out for
predominantly agric u 1 tu ral
Eastern Europe is not trade
with Russia, but with indus-
trialised Western Europe and the
world, as in the past. Neither
Stalin sabotage of the Marshall
plan, nor a Stalin phony imita-
tion of it, can change that basic
relationship for long.”
Socialised Medicine.
Among other things President
Truman’s “cradle - to - grave”
security deal for Americans pro-
poses, according to the “U.S.
News and World Report,” that
“Family medical bills are to be
paid by the U.S. Government.
Sick persons will go to private
doctors, or to hospitals, but the
cheques usually will be picked
up by the U.S. Treasury. In-
dividuals will be able to choose
doctors. But they will get no
choice as to whether they pay
the programme’s payroll tax.
The plan is to l?e compulsory
for 70,000,000 people, and
eventually for nearly everybody.
“Physicians will get the actual
cheques from Government. So
will dentists, nurses, hospitals
and medical laboratories Doc-
tors will be allowed to take part
in the programme, or to stay in
private practice, or to do both.
And, if they take part, doctors
will continue to select and reject
their patients. In time, however,
doctors who stick to private
practice would find few oppor-
tunities except among patients
in high-income groups.”
The system, strongly re-
sembling Canberra’s attempt at
“nationalisation” of doctors, has
come in for a blast of criticism,
as has the Federal Security Ad-
ministrator, Oscar R. Ewing,
whose report to Mr. Truman,
“The Nation’s Health,” is ex-
pected to serve as an outline for
legislation to implement the
scheme.
The strongest opponent of the
plan is the American Medical
Association, which is collecting
$3,500,000 from its members as
a fund to oppose any Govern-
ment-controlled health plan.
The A.M.A. contends, accord-
ing to its Chicago official as re-
ported in the “Christian Science
Monitor,” “that Mr. Ewing’s pro-
posed payroll-tax of 4 per cent,
of the first $4BOO of income
would not come anywhere close
to providing the money neces-
sary to carry out the vast pro-
gramme.
“Among other things Mr.
Ewing calls for medical care for
every man, woman and child in
the United States, for doubling
present hospital facilities by 1960
at a cost of $9,000,000,000,
training 37,0t)0 more physicians
and 20,000 more dentists by the
same year, in addition to en-
larging facilities to care for
handicapped children, the aged
and mentally sick.
“That would necessitate a pay-
roll tax of at least 9 per cent,
not to mention the addition to
the public pay-roll of 300,000 or
more administrative workers.
Such a plan is the fastest way to
bankrupt the nation.”
Joining the attack on State
medicine, the “Saturday Evening
Post” takes some of the findings
of Dr. Melchior Palyi, econo-
mist at Chicago University, who
spent some time in Europe
studying the effects of planning
in various fields. “He found
there are two ways to socialise
medicine: The Bismarck


•4 « « l»M<*
sny ij
K
m
m
0
ICI
ZERO HOUR
Dawn, with ducks galore and ample supplies of
ELEY-KYNOCH shotgun cartridges. That’s the
recipe for a good day’s shooting. During the duck
season you need the best of ammunition. So ask
your storekeeper for supplies of . . .
ELEY-KYNOCH SHOTGUN CARTRIDGES
IMPERIAL CH
EMICAL
INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND LIMITED
method, which was to make
public functionaries of doctors ;
and the French method, which
was to leave the practice of
medicine alone, but send the
patient’s bill to the State. [This
latter appears to be the way Mr.
Ewing wants it.]
“The corruption in the Bis-
marck system resulted in such
backbreaking costs and such bad
medicine that the Germans had
to change it. The French
scheme works out about as
badly, The patient sends his bill
to the Government, but the kick-
backs have become so scandal-
ous that a huge army of func-
tionaries has arisen to check the
doctors’ bills. Inevitably the
deficit of the health-insurance
programme mounts steadily and
has to be replenished from other
revenues. Inevitably, also, the
State, to postpone bankruptcy,
must interfere more and more
with medical practice.
“Britain, which has taken a
modified form of the German
system, has already run into the
pattern of rapidly-rising costs.
Doctors’ waiting-rooms are
packed as, according to Doctor
Palyi, human nature asserts it-
self, ‘diluted by Utopian ideas of
the individual’s alleged right to
costless service provided by the
State, which is presumed to have
unlimited resources.’
“The catch in socialised medi-
cine,” the “Post” concludes, “is
that the insured can always take
out more than he pays in. Un-
fortunately, the decline of medi-
cal standards which always ac-
companies the encroachments of
bureaucrats into professional
matters means that the medical
care which can be guaranteed
becomes less and less worth
getting.”
“War Criminals”?
Since some of the finest legal
talent in the world was brought
to bear on the “war-guilt” trials,
it is probable that history will
be the only final authoritative
assessor of them. In the mean-
time, mountains of opinion and
questions are still piling up for
history to wade through—whe-
ther anyone who obeys the
edicts of his own rulers or the
precepts of his own religion
should be judged by those
of another; can anyone be
‘‘legally” tried and sentenced
for international crimes or
crimes against humanity and
peace until there is that Utopian,
if not impossible, “one world”
with one legal code and one
religion.
One main question, of course,
concerns not so much the trials
themselves as their effect on the
law —would it have been better
in the long run for the “crimi-
nals” even to have escaped trial
and punishment rather than for
British, American or, even,
Christian law to have been ren-
dered suspect? Or would it
have been better to have applied
the old precept of “death to the
loser” without resort to trial —
to have been judged by history
as being wrong, but with an ex-
cuse—rather than to have tried
to appear right by a lengthy and
involved demonstration of Allied
law and justice, which, at once,
risked the reputation of those
very things.
All unanswered questions, or
at least not fully answered, most
of them were raised again and
answered one way or another by
the U.S. press during the Japan-
ese “war-guilt” trials when, on
one side, N. Y. “Times” stated
that “none can hereafter say
they (the Japanese) were de-
prived of any right enjoyed by
every American citizen,” and, on
the other, Washington “Post”
maintained “that the good name
of justice, let alone of the United
States, has been compromised.”
At the same time Chicago
“Tribune” swept in with:
“No American is going t 6 be
overcome with sympathy for the
men who engaged in the rape of
Nanking, who gave the orders
which brought about the slaugh-
ter of 2400 Americans at Pearl
Harbor, and who, at least pas-
sively, permitted innumerable
atrocities to occur. But the re-
verse of the coin is that no one
who has respect for morality or
justice can condone the imposi-
tion of an unlegislated, unpre-
scribed and unauthorised death
penalty by an illegally consti-
tuted and improperly convened
Court, concerned not with law
but propaganda effects.
“There is no international
criminal law so called. There is
no provision anywhere for the
joinder of sovereign States for
the prosecution of criminal
cases. There are crimes which
are recognised by almost all
States in the conduct of war, and
legal Courts are prescribed to
'deal with them.
“The Geneva convention
specifies violations of the rules
of warfare and authorised mili-
tary tribunals of the offended
State to try those guilty. But
N. Y. “Herald Tribune.”
“SOME BITE!"
there is no sanction for victor
States to band together under a
law of their own invention to
deal out summary punishment to
their enemies.”
Between those two extremes
the “Saturday Evening Post”
offered the sober opinion “that
actions against war criminals
should have been confined to
trials of persons accused of
violation of the known laws of
war. Offences like ‘crimes
against humanity’ and charges
involving the origin of the war
itself should have been treated
with great caution. We look
back with considerable satis-
faction to the caption over
an editorial for March 3,
1945, when the agitation to
try these [German] cases was at
its height. The caption was,
‘Hang the Criminals, But Spare
the Law.’ That, as it turns out,
was no easy assignment.”
Most of the foregoing issues,
as well as the precedent estab-
lished by the war-guilt trials,
have been-, uncomfortably re-
vived by affairs in China, where
the Communists are demanding
the persons of Chiang Kai-shek
and 49 other top nationalists, a
demand which, Scripps-Howard
foreign writer William Philip
Simms points out, indicates “that
this ‘war-guilt’ business can be
two-edged. First Russia and the
Allies used it against the Axis.
Now, Russia’s agents are using
it against the Allies.
“It begins to look as if ‘war
criminals’ may sometimes be
merely those who lose a war.
Chiang Kai-shek had been fight-
ing Japan and the Axis a decade
before Russia fired a shot.
Chiang was fighting Japan dur-
ing the 22-months period of
World War II when Stalin and
Hitler were partners. Now
Stalin’s Far Eastern allies say
Chiang is a ‘war criminal’ and
they want him for trial.
“Molotov, Vishinsky and
other Kremlin spokesmen al-
ready have branded President
Truman, Gen. Marshall, Ernest
Bevin, John Foster Dulles and
others of the West as ‘war-
mongers.’ If there is an East-
West war, and the West loses,
the ‘warmongers’ automatically
become war criminals,’ accord-
ing to Moscow’s book.
“Maybe this is something for
the United Nations to tackle.
Otherwise our own future Eisen-
howers, MacArthurs, Marshalls,
Nimitzes, Arnolds and other
patriots—unless they win—court
being stood up against a wall
and shot, or hanged.”
China’s Communists.
While most U.S. papers treat
the virtual concession of Man-
churia to Russia in the Yalta
agreement as a sell-out which
gave the Reds a flying start in
China, Joseph C. Harsch of the
“Christian Science Monitor” de-
tects in the agreement possible
seeds of trouble for Chinese
Communists.
Admitting that the concessions
enabled Russia to help the Com-
munists in Manchuria and that
“the Russian grip on Port Arthur
and Darien was a major factor
in the military defeat of the
Chinese Nationalist armies in
Manchuria,” Harsch notes, how-
ever, that one of the points in
the Chinese Communists’ peace
terms is that all “traitorous
treaties with foreign Powers”
should be abrogated.
“Presumably this refers to the
new United States-Chinese trade
treaty which Communist propa-
ganda insists is unfavorable to
China, and possibly to the agree-
ment under which the United
States Navy is still maintaining
a training mission at Tsingtao.
“But the only treaty under
which any foreign Government
now enjoys major special bene-
fits in Chinese territory is the
Russian treaty, implementing
Yalta, under which Russia
enjoys special advantages in
Manchuria.
“If and when the Communists
become the dominant voice in
the Chinese Government they
will soft-pedal any mention of
Russia’s extraterritorial rights in
Manchuria.
“But China has always been
anti-foreign, and that anti-
foreignness usually tends to direct
itself against whatever foreign
country is most deeply involved
in China. And it will not be
easy for a Communist Govern-
ment in Nanking to conceal
from the Chinese people for ever
that Russia is, in fact, the heir
to the special position which
Japan not so long ago held in
Manchuria and North China,
“Sooner or later the Chinese
Communist leaders must either
advertise their subservience to
Moscow by allowing Russia to
remain in Manchuria or espouse
the cause of Chinese independ-
ence by trying to manoeuvre
the Russians out of Manchuria.”
Socialism.
Some crimes against Social-
ism, gleaned from London
“Time and Tide” by Chicago
“Tribune”:
Wholesale clothiers of Leeds
fined £5096 with £52 10s. costs
for exceeding permitted profits
on manufactured goods. Direc-
tors charged with aiding and
abetting. Firm pleaded guilty
and submitted there was no
deliberate evasion of regula-*
tions ; staff were paid more than
50 per cent, above trade-union
rates and the firm charged less
than ceiling prices because of
its efficiency.
A farmer of Kent, who was
fined £lO with two guineas costs
for selling three gallons of a
special allocation of milk for
workers on his farm to a con-
fectioner to make ice-cream,
stated in evidence that the
workers did not always want
their full ration and he was
often left with a surplus which
went bad. He had since asked
a food inspector what to do with
the surplus and had been told to
do anything except sell it, so he
gave it to the dogs. Confec-
tioner also fined the same
amount with same costs.
Dairyfarmer fined £3O for
employing 15-year-old youth
who wanted to do overtime on
Bank Holiday week-end.
An expectant mother in Scot-
land applied for permission to
transfer her registration for milk
to a shop nearer home. Per-
mission granted on the strength
of a medical certificate, but re-
fused for transfer of husband’s
registration to same shop.
The woman now has to go to
both shops.
Dragnet Digest.
Private Planes in the U.S. —Since
the war, a “Life” article states, more
than 50,000 Americans have tried
owning and flying their own small
planes, but most of them have given
it away. Reasons are the general in-
convenience of using private planes,
the cost, and fear of accidents. In-
stead of the idea of everybody having
his own plane, the flop is so pro-
nounced that the light-plane industry
has been driven to* making a strong
campaign to improve conditions and
lower costs'* “to save itself from
bankruptcy.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
War Harvest.—On the somewhat
shaky assumption that it all could
have been avoided, Chicago
“Tribune” takes a poor view of what
it has convinced itself was Roosevelt’s
private war: “By destroying Japan,
Roosevelt removed the Asiatic
counterweight to Soviet power in the
Far East, just as by destroying Ger-
many he destroyed the European
balance of power and made Stalin
supreme. For this Americans fought
and died, spent themselves into near-
bankruptcy, and now have a worse
mess than ever on their hands.”
*♦' ♦ *
Freedom of Religion. —Only 700
priests are left of the 1600 serving _in
Lithuania before the war, according
to the Right Rev. Mykolas Krupa-
vicius reported in N, Y. “Times.
Krupavicius, Minister of Agriculture
in Lithuania before the war, claims
that the rest of the clergy have been
dealt with in one way or another by
the Russians and that although
churches are still allowed to hold
services they are so heavily taxed
that the people can’t support them.
* * * *
U.S. War-industry. Though its
armed forces are now admitted to
have been much too hastily and opti-
mistically demobilised, the U.S., a
Scripps-Howard report states, still
has the bulk of its war industry,
“and will keep it as long as it’s
needed”: “As a result, today we
are two years and $6,000,000,000
ahead of where we were on Pearl
Harbor Day.”
* * * *
U.N.O.’s Future. Rendered de-
spondent by the abortive Paris session
under Dr. Evatt’s Assembly presi-
dency, N. Y. “Times” sees these
prospects facing the organisation it
has staunchly championed: “We can-
not rule out the possibility that the
United Nations will die as the League
of Nations died. There is an even
greater possibility that there will be
a split within the United Nations,
with Russia and her satellites with-
drawing.”


ENDS AND BEGINNINVS
By
E.O. SCHLUNKE
THE two travel-stained young men
with the badly-rolled swags of in-
experienced foot-travellers, wearing
dungaree “jumper” and moleskin
trousers, faded from many washings and
thriftily repaired, stared wonderingly
from under their wide black felt hats
at the dusty roadway that ran through
Karrington in the early spring of 1890.
Through gaps in the buildings they
could see the red and yellow mullock-
heaps of abandoned mines and the scarred
earth where the alluvial diggings had
been. The buildings, many of them,
were mere shreds of hessian and leaning
poles. Here was the weatherboard facade
of a more substantial structure, bearing
the name “Jas, Z. Underwood, Miners
Supply Merchant, Established 1881,” the
doors swinging in the wind and a few
fragments of glass round the edges of
the window-panes; opposite, the large
Gold Nugget hotel, red and solid in front
but with a ruined bar; the framework
of an enormous semicircular counter
and the rest of the building quite comi-
cally and pathetically crumpled to destruc-
tion ; the roof fallen in on the flimsy
laths and scraps of whitewashed calico
which had formed the walls of many
small rooms.
Only right at the rear a square slab
building stood more or less erect, with
a raised brick footpath to the door, and
a hug® rusty cooking range which, in
its day, must have produced thousands
of meals.
Nettles grew in the patches where the
sunlight fell, and slim, shiny Tommy
lizards flickered along the sprawling laths,
leaving tiny footprints in the layers of
dust.
WHEN they emerged from the wreck
a raucous voice hailed them, giving
them quite a fright in the silence.
“You won’t get anything to drink in
there. You’ll have to go to the Baron’s
Crest.”
The man obviously had good authority
for his information, and his progress to-
ward them was precarious because the
footpath varied in height and condition
at each building. In front of the aban-
doned hotel it was raised about a foot
and filled with clean gravel held at front
and sides with solid ,posts and timber;
next was the wom-down approach to the
blacksmith shop, then a corduroyed
section of round logs which the drunk
fell on to and then through.
He complained bitterly as they helped
him up and freed his foot from the rotted
logs.
“Town’s going to the dogs,” he said
thickly. “Pubs shut, stores shut, banks
closed down, houses falling over. The
country’s ruined. Might as well give it
back to the blacks.”
He couldn’t tell them where their
friend, Weismann, lived though he tried
hard, and remembered a Mr. Wise who
had been manager of the Bank of N.S.W.
in the good days when the escort took
out up to £5OOO-worth of gold every
week; and a Mr. Wellman who held
most .of the shares in the Enterprise in
its boom.
When they told him that their Weis-
mann had selected a block of land some
twelve miles to the north, he snorted in
drunken contempt and staggered off again,
muttering disgustedly about “b Ger-
man cockies.”
After a lot of searching along streets
of deserted houses they found a large,
half-empty store still operating, the owner
of which knew Weismann and could tell
them which road to take.
“Weismann’s a very game man,” he
said. “And he’s terrible keen on farm-
ing. He’ll make a success of it if any-
one can.”
But their informant was a discouraged
man, and he talked sadly of the town
dying, and the terrible drought they’d
just had “on top of everything.”
“But it looks like being a good year
again,” he added with a flash of hope in
his eyes. And we need it too, to give
"the selectors a chance. Now that the
gold is done, we’ll have to depend on
them to build the town up again.” Then
he added wistfully, “But it will take a
long time.”
The road turned out to be no more
than a surveyor’s plan with a tree blazed
every few chains to mark it. A lightly
used and barely distinguishable cart-
track followed its general direction, wind-
ing in wide arcs to either side wherever
the scrub of grey-box and cypress-pine
with its undergrowth of Bendee wattle
was thinner. The farther it went the
more vague it became, and more over-
grown with white top-grass, making its
characteristic spectacular recovery.
After about four miles of walking
they came to the Station Creek and fol-
lowed it up to the squatter Simpson’s
homestead, where (so the storekeeper had
told them) there was a bridge.
They stared hard at everything; the
solid pis£ house, the woolshed and the
extensive sheepyards, because anything
connected with farming interested them
greatly, and because they had heard a
great deal about Simpson.
T' HEY tried to find out from a half-
f caste if there was a short-cut back to
the track without following the creek, but
the man merely grinned at them with his
big loose mouth, though they couldn’t
make out whether it was impudence or
stupidity. But presently he pointed to
a man coming from the house with half
a dozen large, long-legged, hairy dogs ;
bred, apparently, from staghounds and
wolfhounds ; these, spying the strangers,
became fearsomely interested, putting up
their hackles, growling, and stalking in
stiff-legged suspicion; then suddenly
charging swiftly. Just when they were
almost on top of the men they pulled
up abruptly, snarling and glowering and
working each other into sudden gusts of
passion, snapping and circling round the
men, and roaring hoarsely in their
throats.
The half-caste walked away, trailing
his stockwhip as if to draw the dogs’
attention to the defencelessness of the
others. The travellers stood back to
back, trying to outface the dogs and
maintaining a bold face with some diffi-
culty ; waiting for the squatter, who
approached with slow deliberation, his
face, which probably had been striking
and commanding in his early years of
bold enterprise and adventure, now worn
with fast living and years of mounting
troubles.
He was dressed in fine cord riding-
breeches, shiny leggings and well-cut
jacket, and he wore a hard, rather grim
smile as he gazed indifferently at the
men’s unhappy situation, prolonging it
quite unnecessarily while he stood close
by, observing them with his shrewd, dis-
illusioned eyes.
Then, just to show how easily he could
have spared them, he said the one word,
“Down! ”
The dogs instantly shrank about-ten
yards away, though they continued to
watch with wicked bloodshot eyes, growl-
ing in little uncontrollable bursts of
savagery and showing their white knives
of teeth under trembling hairy lips.
The two men looked immensely re-
lieved, which seemed to amuse Simpson
no end,
‘ I Q AVAGE dogs you’ve got there,
Mister,” said fair, round-faced
Klemm,
“Yes, they’re savage .dogs all right.”
Simpson spoke with the assurance of an
autocrat of 100,000 acres. He paused
and smiled pleasantly. “I call them Selec-
tor dogs, you know, Kept them for the
dingoes. But selectors are the worst pests
round here now.”
He seemed amused at the sudden
glance they exchanged.
The first time they killed a man it
was quite unnecessary,” Simpson said
thoughtfully. He pulled a pipe from
out of his breeches pocket and
tapped it against his shiny leggings.
“Although, I suppose, he deserved
it—for being a fool. He was the
dingo-hunter I had looking after
them. He got on the spree for three
days and forgot to feed them. Then he
went blundering into their yard and they
flew at him —like they nearly went for
you just now—and—er—ate him,”
Klenim’s big innocent blue eyes
widened in horror because the story had
the ring of truth. He turned away from
Simpson in a sort of disgust. But
Schaeffel, his companion, whose dark,
sallow face and small, burning, deep-
set eyes had a look of steady determina-
tion as strong in its less flamboyant way
as Simpson’s, said:
“You’d better not put them on to us.
We’re not drunk. We’re only trying to
find our way. to Weismann’s selection.”
The effect on Simpson was extra-
ordinary. His face suddenly flushed and
his fine pose of sardonic amusement ex-
ploded in anger.
“Get out of here —as quick as you
can! If I’d known you were friends of
that swine you would have been dog’s
feed before this!”
The squatter’s voice was shrill with an
almost hysterical fury.
Although he said nothing to the dogs
and did not even look at them, the nearest
came leaping at Schaeffel, But Schaeffel
had quietly armed himself with a bar
of half-inch round iron from the wreck
of a bullock-wagon near by and he hit
the dog on the head, not merely to ward
it off, but with deliberate murderous in-
tent, hard. There was a loud whack
and the dog collapsed on its jaw and the
other monsters checked their rush,
slithering on their haunches, cowed for
the moment.
The men walked off quickly in a north-
westerly direction, hoping to strike the
trail of blazed trees a few miles to the
north of the creek. But they missed it
and became lost in a dense maze of young
cypress-pines that had followed a years-
past bushfire.
I N the afternoon they climbed a hill
* to look for a landmark, and saw what
looked like the roof of a house a little
to the east. After some difficulty they
managed to reach it and discovered that
the house consisted of three sheets of
galvanise*d-iron laid across a gap between
two big granite rocks.
Three men, obviously brothers, with
the same massive, wiry beards and fiery
Highland eyes, were eating a meal be-
neath the roof. They sprang out, full
of suspicion and hostility, but when they
discovered that the intruders were friends
of Weismann they became cordial.
They not only gave Klemm and Schaeffel
detailed directions, but accompanied
them back to the trail.
“Keep that high, pointed hill straight
in front of you,” they said, “and you
can’t go wrong.”
Just as the sun was setting Klemm and
. Schaeffel reached the end of the surveyed
road, a tree with a larger blaze than the
rest.
They continued on towards the pointed
hill, seeing nothing but virgin forest.
though they knew, from the Scotchmen,
that most of the land had been selected.
They paused now and then to listen for
the sound of an axe or anything that
might give them a clue to follow; but
they heard only the cries of strange birds
settling down for the night, the scurrying
of possums beginning to emerge from the
hollows and sliding down the trunks of
trees, and all the small noises of millions
of leaves and branches rustling, rubbing,
tapping in the gentle evening breeze.
When it was too dark to go on they
decided to spend the night under a dense,
spreading kurrajong-tree. They lit a
fire and took out the bread they had
bought in Karrington and the home-made
sausage, “leberwurst” and “blutwurst”
they had brought a hundred and fifty
miles from Albury, It reminded them of
the fat pigs they had killed, and, more
poignantly, of their families, all of whom
had joined in the work of converting
every bit of the pigs into good food to
be used months later. Now, in fact.
They munched with a melancholy satis-
faction, the darkness and the vast bush
around them and no clear certainty of
their fate in their heads.
NEXT morning they were up early, and
while they were still eating break-
fast, they heard the sound of an axe and
soon the crash of a tree, so loud that it
startled them. They sprang to their feet
and ran towards the sounds.
Soon they came into a small clearing
and saw a tall man in flannel undershirt
and moleskin trousers like theit own,
hacking the limbs off the fallen tree with
swift, clean, effective strokes of the axe,
making it seem easy and pleasing work,
like playing some game of skill.
Though neither of them knew Weis-
mann at all well, except by reputation,
Klemm rushed over with eager, beaming
face and hand outstretched.
“So! This is Weismann. It must be
Weismann. The tall young man with
the farm in the bush.”
And he continued to shout greetings in
English and German, until he was shaking
Weismann’s hand, and smiling at him,
his eyes shining with emotion. Schaeffel
hurried up too, as soon as he was sure
it was the man they were seeking, full
of cautious curiosity and interest.
While Schaeffel was greeting Weismann
in his reserved manner, Klemm was
looking around and exclaiming in his ex-
cited voice.
“So this is your farm. Isn’t it a
beautiful farm? Look how tall the grass
is growing where you’ve cleared the
timber.”
And Schaeffel, too, began to search
around with his shrewd calculating eyes,
kicking away the grass to get a look at
the soil. Weismann studied them thought-
fully, and as their enthusiasm mounted
his keen, dark eyes and thin, rather stem
face relaxed into a smile that made
Klemm beam back at him delightedly.
He drove his axe into the stump with
a flick of his wrist.
“Come along and I’ll show you some-
thing,” r he said.
He led them across the clearing, walk-
ing so quickly that Klemm had to hurry
to keep up with him, to a plot of about
twenty acres of ploughed land,, which
stood out quite startlingly red in the
virgin forest.
“It looks a bit rough,” Weismann ex-
plained. “I had it done by a tank-sinker
with his rooter-plough and team of bul-
locks. But it was just the thing to tear
out the wattle-bushes and the roots that
I missed.”
They walked across it, examining the
soil with eager, serious faces; Klemm
exclaiming with delight at every few
yards at the way it broke under their
feet into crumbling particles, even where
it had been turned up too deeply in wet
patches.
“Lovely land to work,” he said, picking
up handfuls and letting it run through his
fingers. “You could grow anything here.
Wheat, maize, potatoes, grapes, fruit.”
Weismann looked at him steadily, as
if trying to decide if he was a foolish
fellow or just momentarily elated.
“Wheat,” he said. “Yes. And all the
rest, too, if it rained enough. But gener-
ally it doesn’t. But it’s wonderful wheat
country. Wheat doesn’t want too much
rain.”
“Yes,” Schaeffel agreed, in his cautious,
tight-fisted way. “Wheat and oats should
grow here, all right.”
But Klemm was now rubbing his hands
in the greyer soil of a corner that dipped
into a watercourse.
“You could plant an orchard here,”
he asserted. “Look.how deep and moist
the soil is. It would never dry out.”
“Ah, yes,” Weismann agreed, smiling.
“You could in the watercourses, but they
are only narrow strips. Mind you, the
rest is good, too, only it doesn’t get so
much water. All we need here is water,
and it could be a paradise.”
At the word “paradise,” Klemm and


Schaeffel looked at each other abruptly
as if reminded of something very serious ;
then, seeing Weismann’s discerning eyes
on them, they looked away in some con-
fusion. Klemm blushed, and began his
“land talk” again, but awkwardly and
without spontaneity for a while, until his
enthusiasm returned and carried him
away again.
Weismann led them to another clearing
where the timber had been killed the year
before. He began to gather dry branches
as he walked along and throw them on
his burning-off fires. Klemm and Schaef-
fel joined eagerly in the work.
“My word it is good to be doing some-
thing useful,” said Klemm, with a joyful
smile on his face. “After walking about
and wasting time for weeks looking for
land.”
THEY insisted on helping him all the
morning, so Weismann stayed at the
fires because he had only one axe. As
he became more familiar with them he
began to talk eagerly, because he had
seen people only at rare intervals for a
long time, and these two men were his
own folk.
“I used to ride past whenever I could,
all the time I was working for Simpson,”
he told them, as the three of them toiled
to drag a heavy log against a big, smooth
box-tree which wouldn’t catch alight. “I
always reckoned it was the pick of
Simpson’s run. It wasn’t only the soil
I liked, but the lay of the land. The
watercourse just there, and the little rise
—just the place for a homestead with a
garden, where you could see all the land
rolling away on each side, and the hills
in the background.”
He stopped and looked around so that
they could appreciate what he meant.
Then a slow, deeply satisfied smile spread
over his face,
“But in those days I didn’t think that
I’d ever have the luck to have it for my
own farm. Though I used to think about
it a lot, and plan what I’d do with it
if it was mine.”
At midday Weismann invited them to
his hut for a meal, but Klemm quickly
offered their bread and sausages.
“We’ll have a meal with you tonight,”
he suggested hopefully.
So they finished the sausages, holding
them in one hand and the bread in the
other, and taking great bites from each
alternately.
“My word, this is good,” Weismann
said, full of appreciation. “Real home-
made German sausages again. You don’t
know how fine it tastes after living on
kangaroo stew for nearly a year.”
THEY drank from a pool in the water-
course and worked hard until dusk.
Then Weismann led them off to his hut,
all now agreeably tired and feeling at
ease with each other, discussing earnestly
how a man without much money might
acquire a farm, Weismann doing most
of the talking, and the others listening
respectfully because he not only had a
farm of his own, but knew infinitely more
about the complicated land laws and
about all the evasions, dummying and
land jobbing that was going on.
He took them into a hut built of care-
fully-cut and -fitted slabs of wood, with
a huge open fireplace made of large stones
cemented together with clay forming one
end. He threw an armful of dry pine
on to the coals which had slept under
the ashes all day and soon the room
was warmed and brightly lit by the
flames. They sat on his bunk (admiring
the home-made possum rug with which
it was covered) while Weismann warmed
up a kangaroo stew on a large black
pot hanging by a wire in the flames, and
made a damper in a bush oven, a cast-
iron device with a heavy lid which
squatted on its three short legs on the
coals.
Klemm declared the food to be fine,
and he made great fun of the shortage of
utensils. But after the meal, when they
were seated round the fire and the atmos-
phere seemed right for a yarn, Schaeffel
began to glance meaningly at Klemm and
to give significant nods in Weismann’s
direction.
Klemm made a distressed and distaste-
ful grimace, and a gesture suggesting
delay. But Schaeffel put on a very sour
and strait-laced expression and kept an
accusing eye on Klemm until Weismann,
noticing the growing tension, stopped
talking and remained silently watchful.
Klemm became extremely awkward
and embarrassed but, urged on by Schaef-
fers silent proddings, he turned reluctantly
to Weismann, his big soft eyes beseech-
ing him not to be offended.
HE pastor at Jinders gave us a
1 message for you when he heard
that we were coming up this way. He
seemed to think there was something
wrong”—he gave Weismann a quick,
nervous glance, and seeing his keen, dark
eyes fixed searchingly on his face, he be-
came suddenly abashed and ended lamely
—“I think he wanted to know how you
got hold of your land.”
Schaeffel, with his face now severe and
censorious, made a protesting noise and
exclaimed sharply: “He didn’t say that!”
Klemm turned roundly on Schaeffel:
“You tell him, well!”
Schaeffel hunched up his shoulders and
looked fixedly at a spot in the fire.
When he spoke he sounded like some
wrangling and embittered old theologian.
“The pastor said he’d been told that
you didn’t get your block honest. That
you were dummying it for Simpson and
then just took it off him for yourself. He
said that you did wrong to dummy. And
that taking it off Simpson after was as
bad as stealing. He said you’d have to
give it back to Simpson.”
Weismann looked at Schaeffel all the
time, straight and hard; his face did not
change, but his long, strong hands closed
tightly as if he was bracing himself. He
remained silent for so long that Klemm
at last began to squirm.
“We don’t want to insult you, Her-
mann,” he said awkwardly. “But the
pastor did tell, us that. And we’ve got to
do what the pastor says.”
Schaeffel said pointedly to Weismann:
‘‘You’ve got to give up your farm if you
do what the pastor says.”
Poor goodhearted Klemm blushed red
in the firelight and made some distressed
noises in his throat.
“That’s what it’s like, Hermann,” he
said, and his voice trembled as if he
might break down and cry.
Weismann moved so that he could
watch both men’s faces, and they waited
excitedly for him to speak.
«n ASTORS know a lot about the
I Bible, and what we should do, and
shouldn’t do,” Weismann said, his voice
quiet, strong and serious. “But they’re
not very practical.”
He waited a while, to give them a
chance to contradict him, then went on,
as if taking it for granted that they had
conceded that point,
“What good is it to him,” he went on,
“to be driving about in his buggy to
one family renting a farm here, and an-
other share-farming fifty miles away, and
two men working on a
station thirty miles in an-
other direction, and none of
them likely to stop where
they are for more than a
year?
“Now, this is the way I
look at it. I’ve got my own
farm here, and some day I’ll
get married and raise a
family, right here. Now,
what happens next? Say I
find places for you two near
by. That will be three
families settled here. Next we
can look around and send
word for someone else to
come. In a few years we
could have six to ten families
all together here, that are now
scattered over a hundred
miles. We could build a
church then, and have proper
services with an organ and
good singing. And our
womenfolk would have
friends of their own people to
gossip with and we’d have a little village
with a shop and a post-office, and a
school for the children, where now there
is only bush, and empty, dummied selec-
tions. But the pastor wouldn’t think
of that!”
He paused to see how they were taking
it.
Schaeffel, who had looked mightily in-
terested when Weismann mentioned get-
ting farms for him and Klemm, never-
theless said stubbornly:
“The pastor said you done wrong.”
Weismann went on, taking great care
to remain calm and reasonable.
“He doesn’t know what happened, or
how it happened. I’m the only one who
does. And now I’ll tell you, and let
you judge for yourselves,”
THE others sat forward eagerly;
Klemm hopefully expectant, Schaeffel
sternly judicious, but also hungrily
curious.
“I’ve told you what happened when
the Robertson Land Act came in.
How the squatters started to dummy
blocks in a mad hurry all over their runs
to beat the selectors. Well, Simpson did
just like the rest of them. Even before
I knew for certain that the Act was
passed, he said to me one morning with
that sly look on his face, ‘Weismann, I
want you to go and select a farm for
yourself. Pick the best block, because
you’re such a good farmer’ —he said that
because I’d always been at him to clear
some land and grow some crops—and
then he gave me one of his cunning
winks.
“Of coursd I knew what he was up to,
and I felt pretty bad about it because I
wanted a block sa much, and didn’t have
enough money to select one. But sud-
denly something said in my heart, ‘You
go and pick the block you like best, and
some day it will be yours'
“Now, you can say what you like, but
I’m sure it was God’s voice, because my
heart started to beat so excited and happy
and I never felt so good in my life.”
Schaeffel stirred and looked meaningly
across at Klemm.
“It might have been the devil tempt-
ing him.”
“Don’t talk like that, Schaeffel,” Klemm
said angrily, “After what Hermann told
us about how he’s planned to make a
congregation here. The devil doesn’t
start Lutheran congregations.”
“He hasn’t promised to start a congre-
gation,” Schaeffel said, subdued but not
convinced.
Weismann cut in quickly:
“Wait till you’ve heard the rest of the
story. When Simpson said that, I said to
him, taking care over the exact words I
used —because I didn’t want to tell any
lies that he could throw up at me after-
wards —I said to him, as serious as a
Judge and looking him straight in the
eye, ‘All right, Mr. Simpson,’ I said, ‘l’ll
select a block for myself.’ Those were my
exact words.”
“And what did Simpson say?”
Schaeffel asked, leaning forward, his
dark eyes sparkling.
“He just gave one of his hard.laughs
and wheeled his flashy blood horse round
and rode off without a word.
“Well, I fixed up the papers in my
name, proper and legal with a solicitor,
and Simpson comes along as bold as brass
and says to him: ‘l’m lending Weismann
a hundred pounds to pay his deposit.
Isn’t that so, Weismann?’ And I looked
him straight in the eye and said, ‘That is
so, Mr. Simpson.’ ”
Klemm, who had been giving Schaeffel
the most emphatic and significant nods
at each of Weismann’s strong points, now
burst out:
“That should convince Pastor Lange.
He’s so careful with weighing and measur-
ing every word.”
SCHAEFFEL nodded grudgingly, as
if he considered that Weismann was
building up a good case. Weismann went
on, still holding their eyes and watching
every change of expression.
“Well, from then on I did a lot of
work on my block, but only in my own
time. After I’d finished my day’s work
with Simpson and on Sundays. Every-
thing I used on the place I either paid
for myself or got off my own block, like
timber to build this hut.”
The other two looked carefully over
the inside of the slab walls, and at the
pine rafters, as if they would be able to
detect any part that didn’t honestly be-
long to Weismann.
“I saved my money more than ever —
though I’d been saving all along, ever
since I’d been working for Simpson—
and when I had enough I went straight
to Simpson and told him I’d come to
repay his loan. You should have seen the
way he performed! Called me all the
things he could lay his tongue to. But
I tell you, here and now, that my con-
science is clear about everything I did.
And if you think I should have told
Simpson in the first place that I wouldn’t
have anything to do with his dummying,
just look at it this way. That law was
made to give the small men a chance to
get a block of land, and Simpson was
trying to make me help him break it in
an underhand way. What I really did
if you look at it in the right way
was to make him help me to carry out
the law, the way it was meant to be
carried out.”
KLEMM stared into the fire with a
worried frown, trying to puzzle it
out. But Schaeffel looked at Weismann
in his knowing way.
“But you did deceive Simpson,” he
said.
“No,” Weismann said firmly. I
didn’t deceive him. I told him the truth
and he wouldn’t believe me. He deceived
himself. Anyhow, I ask you, what would
you have done?”
Klemm said eagerly, “If I’d been in
your shoes —and knowing I was going to
start a congregation here —I would have
done the same as you. That is,” he
added with a modest smile, “if I’d been
clever enough to think it all out in time.”
But Schaeffel’s avaricious little eyes
were fixed unwaveringly on Weismann
while he waited impatiently for Klemm
to finish.
“But you as good as promised you can
find farms for us. Can you do it now?
That’s what I want to know! Can you
do it?”
And Klemm, though he glanced re-
provingly at Schaeffel, searched Weis-
mann’s face, his own pale and tense,
Weismann gave them a reassuring smile.
“Tomorrow,” he said, “I’ll take you to
two places that I’ve had my eye on for
a long time. Places , you can get very
reasonably.”
TEARS came into Klemm’s soft, blue
eyes. He grabbed Weismann’s hand
in both his own and looked as if he
wanted to embrace him.
“Ach, Hermann, you wonderful man,”
he said, his voice uncontrollable with
emotion.
And Schaeffel’s sour face lit up with
a restrained smile. He looked into the
fire thoughtfully, as if plans for clearing
and farming were already forming in his
mind. Then he said in a voice so un-
expectedly pleasant that the others looked
at him in surprise:
“Now we can tell Pastor Lange that
there was nothing wrong with the way
you got your farm.”
“Poor John jammed his fingers in the doorway."


m. S
mm
X
7%e finest Oifeveb made
KEEP YOUR ENGINE
Mobiloil clean
•fter exactly similar operation piston at make this New Mobiloil the finest motor
the left shows what happened with "just oil ever made.' New Mobiloil keeps rings,
oil;' the piston at the right was kept pistons, valves freer from deposits; se
Mobiloil Clean. Amazing cleaning properties saves on fuel and repairs
GIVES.
• A Cleaner Engine
• Perfect Lubrication
• Longer Engine Life
• Improved Performance
• Quicker Starting
• Complete Protection
k At All Speeds
It & Temperatures
VAOOOM Oil COMPANY PT t . LTD. (|N{ t N 4uM j
M 4722
THE WORLD’S QUALITY OIL
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HIULTOP. A blend of
Australian, American , and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
tired feet?
Hot. tired fee
this treatment
A Cnticura So:
and Cuticura
ment applicati
it and enjoy n
comfort. C
Ointment, 60
Tdlcum Powd
the famous
trio.
532
r
OINTMENT
SUNDRY SHOWS
OKLAHOMA.
This latest opus from the brain
of the titanic Oscar Hammerstein
11, put on by his cousin Ted
Hammerstein at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, and destined, no
doubt, to stay there for at least
Hi years, meanders along for
half its length in conventional
musicomedy fashion
Spotless cowboys, dairymaids
and peasants debouch upon the
stage and sing about the
economic difficulties of the U.S.
farmer to Richard Rogers’s
somewhat brassy but not ineffec-
tive music,
Robert Reeves, as the spotless
hero Curly, and Carolyn Adair,
as the immaculate heroine
Laurie, sing of their mutual love
and hatred at the slightest pro-
vocation, and Harold Gary, as a
Persian hawker of exciting post-
cards, provides a brand of humor
whose Subtleties are probably
more comprehensible in New
York than Melbourne. Louise
Barnhart as Ado Annie presents
the stock portrait of a moronic
damsel. Then suddenly the
drama deepens.
Mr. Hammerstein has appar-
ently being going to the movies
and may have seen “Duel in the
Sun,” and he may even have seen
“Lady in the Dark,” for his Jud
Fry (Robert Grandin), the hired
hand, represents the primitive
and elemental, the brute in man,
while his hero Curly is the con-
ditioned ideal, and his heroine
Laurie is torn between them.
Laurie dreams a dream in which
a posse of dance-hall hussies
dance a can-can, Curly fires an
imaginary revolver at Jud and
Jud chokes him to death and
carries off Laurie. Then the
real Curly enters, all expectant;
but, seeing his girl-friend making
off with Jud, remains puzzled,
dejected and defeated.
The dream ballet, in which the
characters are taken by Gemze
de Lappe, Matt Mattox and
Vassilie Trunoff, is one of the
most extraordinary seen for a
long time in Melbourne. It is
superbly danced and decored,
and has the same hallucinatory
quality as the film images in
“Lady in the Dark.” In a dif-
ferent context it would be
enormously effective.
After this outburst of imagina-
tive insight, however, Mr. Ham-
merstein drops back into bis
musicomedy jog and ambles
complacently along to the final
curtain. Jud is caught red-
handed in his murderous en-
deavors, is ousted by the hero
and the show canters home to the
usual happy ending.
Jumbled Paintings.
George Raffan, an Australian
artist from Sydney who has re-
cently completed a formidable
art education in England, has a
very large and very mixed ex-
hibition of oil and watercolor
paintings at David Jones’s.
In England Raffan attended
the Redhill School of Art under
William Todd-Brown ; the West-
minster School under Walter
Bayes, Meninsky and Gerther
and R. G. Eves’s Yellow Door
Studio. Although his work was
interrupted by the war, during
which he served in the R.N.,
Raffan has exhibited with the
New English Art Club, the Royal
Academy, the Royal Scottish
Academy, the Royal Portrait
Society, the Royal Society of
British Artists, the Royal Insti-
tute of Oil Painters and the Paris
Salon. He is a member of the
United Society of Artists and a
foundation member of the
Society of Marine Artists. His
first “one-man-show” was held
in London last year, and his
second is chiefly remarkable for
the variety of “influences” shown
in a mass of work.
A large portrait of a Hert-
fordshire town-crier has color
and robust character —indeed, all
the many portraits have a touch
of character, more or less im-
perfectly revealed and is
painted on traditional lines. The
nudes, on the whole, are hazy,
and there are, contrasting with
some dimly Whistler-like river
scenes, a few small, cleanly-
executed watercolors; a number
of other dark watercolors; and
a large, stark and faintly, sym-
bolical “Tower Bridge.”
There is a fine “Old Man's
Head” ; a striking sketch of sea,
sand and sky; a large Spanish
scene, rather faint, delicately
touched in pastel shades and
reminiscent of the South of
France paintings of Rupert
Bunny; a rich “Devon Land-
scape” in which, ruining the
composition in a stereotyped
search for drama, weird trees
stretch bare arms to a flushed
sky that looks like a red mush-
room ; one good flower-piece
and many indifferent ones; re-
mote, thin little landscapes and
quantities of harsh- and dis-
cordant paint. The exhibition is
too large, and "the inferior work
lends to swamp the rest.
Sydney Tiv.
.ror the benefit of the un-
initiated, fhe orchestra of one
Spike Jones, as heard per radio
or films, sounds very like a
machine-gun duel and a crash
between two fire-engines, all in
the middle of a hooting, seething
traffic jam with a police band
blaring out an enthusiastic
accompaniment. It seems in-
credible, in fact, that a single
orchestra could produce so much
noise.
It’s all the more incredible
that one man could give a pas-
sable imitation of the same
clatter. Rex Ramer, at Sydney
Tiv., does it, however, and seems
almost to produce more noise
and a greater variety than the
notorious Spike. He also gives
off a series of vocal imitations
of sundry musical instruments
and contrives to sing a soprano-
bass duet with himself.
The title of the Tiv.’s current
programme, “All the Best,” is not
without some justification—any-
thing better than several of the
acts would be a long way better
than good. Comedian Freddie
Bamberger has a steady flow of
amusing patter, and plays on and
with the piano; singer Phyllis
Robins is not hard to listen to
and her other attributes are most
obvious.
In the spectacular line,
Jackie does some astounding
balancing-feats several feet above
the stage, and Jerry Grey and
Jeanne Frances combine in a
straining, writhing wrestle be-
tween a savage and a python ;
strong - man Wilfred Briton
solemnly supports a small scaf-
folding which in turn supports
a drum with a girl to play it, and
two bikes with two girls to ride
’em.
Exhibition skaters, the
Merenos, throw in a dazzling
display ; Annette Klooger leaves
nothing out of her singing;
Dumarte and Denzer, dqine up in
black with luminous paint; give
a fair representation of a couple
of skeletons shaking themselves
to pieces on the stage ; and
Micheline Bernardini parades in
one-eighth of one-tenth of the
covering allowed by the most
broadminded of beach-inspec-
tors.
Grim Spectacle.
One of the most poignant
shows ever to be presented on
the Melbourne Town Hall plat-
form was the arraigning before
their judges of eight incipient
divas for the sixth award of the
scholarship awarded by the late
Dame Nellie Melba.
The eight entrants were of all
shapes and sizes, and came from
all States except N. S, Wales,
which for some reason or other
appears to be songless. New
Zealand had its official songbird,
but the largest number came
from Melbourne suburbs, and
one at least from the suburb
which had the honor of being
Melba’s birthplace,
A barrage of microphones
confronted the victims, an audi-
ence of 2000 glared balefully at
them, and the three adjudicators
sat in a grim row at a table
looking extraordinarily like a
bench of Judges at a war-crimes
tribunal, while the usual compere
waxed facetious at the mike
about them. The ages of the
young ladies ranged from 18 to
24, and all of them were obvi-
ously in the first years of their
apprenticeship to music. All
looked nervous, but some looked
completely paralysed with terror.
The only pleasure the present
writer derived from the scene of
horror was the satisfaction that
his judgment coincided with that
of the judges. He gave highest
marks to a teenager, Joyce
Simmons, who came from Mel-
bourne. She looked more like
an incipient Dal Monte than a
Melba, but she had a sweet,
warmly colored voice, a look of
singing as if she felt and liked
it, and a pure and natural instru-
ment to play on. She sang
“Dove Sono,” from the
“Marriage of Figaro,” and a
lovely little ditty, “A Blackbird
Singing,” by Michael Head.
During the awful 20 minutes
while the judges were putting
their grey heads together behind
the iron curtain the producers
showed a nice consideration by
bringing on Harold Blair, the
aboriginal tenor, to relieve the
tension.
At the Talkies.
“Monsieur Verdoux” (Sydney
Mayfair): Chaplin with a dash
of genius. His gay little French-
man who cheerfully marries and
murders anything with money is
an excellent Gallic balance of
comedy, drama and tragedy.
The only false note is Verdoux’s
speech at the end of his trial in
which Chaplin contrives to un-
load some of his pinkish social
philosophy.
“The Sorcerer” (Sydney
Variety): A French effort about
a bad ’un who broods up in the
mountains and terrifies the vil-
lagers. He offers a village wench
enough money to marry her boy-
friend on the condition that she
takes a short holiday first with
him in his mountain fastness.
Not without its good touches—
mood, photography and acting—
but rather like an overdramatised
folk - tale. The passionless
English dialogue inflicted on the
passionate French actors and
dubbed into the sound-track is
frightful.
“The Bishop’s Wife” (Sydney
Regent): Excellent light-comedy
with David Niven as a bishop
too concerned with worldly
matters. A very substantial angel
in the form of Cary Grant
guides the bishop back to the
proper path and to his wife's
affections. Well acted, with
Loretta Young as the wife, and
Monty Woolley and James
Gleason as a couple of inci-
dentals who are unaccustomed
to dealing with angels.
Tr Man - eater of Kumaon”
(Sydney Victory): A mildly in-
teresting stretch of jungle doings
in which the best actor is the
tiger—disabled by a bullet and
unable to take his natural prey
he turns to man, and wipes out
a couple of native villages before
killing and being killed by hunter
Wendell Corey.
“Rachel and the Stranger”
(Sydney Esquire) is a pleasantly-
balanced work with comedy and
drama around a backwoods
cabin as light as porcelain and
as sudden as a whip-crack.
Loretta Young fights a mountain-
cat, seven dogs fight each other
in an amusing sequence, and a
raiding band of Shawnees pro-
vide a little* more serious action
—all in excellent outdoor set-
tings.


ImhUranciseo
IN THE LATEST, GREATEST DOOGIAS AIRLINER...
THE 300 «
«
1
m
■ V
■ Mm:
FLYING THE “SOUTHERN CROSS" ROUTE WITH
BCPA :
-
• This represents actual flying time.
En route, BCPA provide a 12-hour
stopover at Honolulu. .
m
mmtm
: '
MM
BCPA present the magnificent DC-6 •
newest, finest, fastest airliner to cross the
Pacific on regular schedules! In the
JDC-6 you leave Sydney on Wednesday,
have lunch in San Francisco on Thursday.
You’ll sleep during “night” flying in
super-comfortable full-length bunks; fly
three miles up at 5 miles a minute;
enjoy the restful luxury of fully air-
conditioned, pressurised cabins. There is no extra fare for the
DC-6, and your complete overseas journey, including the
through fare to U.K., may be arranged and paid for in
Australian currency. Special reductions for return trips.
Pressurised cabins prevent dis-
comfort at high altitudes.
Menus are designed to suit all
tastes and snacks or light re-
freshments can be had at any
hour. There's a well-stocked bar,
too.
See for yourself how cleverly the
seats on the DC-6 convert into
sleepers. It's the last word in
airline luxury . . . with sheets,
blankets, reading lamp every-
thing for your comfort.
m
v 'S-v:
■
v m
m
m
Ladies will appreciate the luxuri-
ous lounge—equipped for the
most exacting cosmetic ritual.
The menfolk also have two spaci-
ous well-fitted compartments.
Full information and reservations from your local travel agent or any
airline booking office. BCPA Head Office: 53 Martin Place, Sydney.
Phone: 8W2741. General Agents: Trans-Australia Airlines.
fd
fd
f
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO
VANCOUVER
BCA.7.S*
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
For those seeking a pointer to Aus-
tralian Cup prospects, the 13-furlongs
Mernda Handicap at Moonee Valley
on Saturday proved about as enlight-
ening as a Foreign Affairs debate,
Canberra fashion. With the com-
mendable notion of encouraging
stayers, regulations require that Mel-
bourne clubs include in all their pro-
grammes at least one flat-race over a
journey of 12 furlongs or further.
Results of these events in recent
months suggest that racing’s crying
need at the moment is for a few
reliably consistent, genuine stayers.
A recent failure at such provincial
courses as Woodend, Mornington
and Kyneton, the six-year-old Great
Legend mare Tearo Silk produced a
powerful, late run to beat the well-
backed pair Colin and Golden Gem
in the Memda. Tearo Silk started
at 33 to 1 and paid twice those odds
on the tote.
In a similar event at Flemington
the previous week, Colin, starting on
that occasion at 25 to 1, had caused
just as great an upset by downing
the odds-on favorite Dashing Beau in
the Brookside Handicap. However,
while both were painful for punters,
Colin’s performances at Flemington
and Moonee Valley were pretty solid
efforts. The Collingwood gelding
seemed a mite unlucky on Saturday,
striking a fair deal of trouble early
in the piece and having little in re-
serve when tackled by Tearo Silk at
the finish. Antares, Promise You
and favorite Dhutia were the costly
failures of the race. The success of
Tearo Silk gave bookies their only
really good result of the day, and any
intelligent punter, if such there be,
should have been well on the way
home by the time the Mernda, last
of eight races, was run. Favorites
won five of the other events, in-
cluding the first four in a row.
Unfortunately, the Moonee Valley
programme made no provision for
trainers who may have desired to
give Oakleigh and Newmarket can-
didates a topping-off race. Other
than two-year-old affairs, the only
sprint events were two divisions of a
six-furlongs Trial Highweight, open
only to four-, five- and six-year-olds.
One of these, however, contrived to
provide the sensation of the day.
Starting at 20 to 1 in the second divi-
sion, Irregular led all the way to
down the favorite Mohandas (Sam
Martin). Backers of Irregular were
elated and those on the favorite cor-
respondingly deflated until it was
found that Irregular, running true to
name, had weighed in s£lb. light.
The ensuing scramble suggested that
professional pickers-up of discarded
betting tickets were in for a lean
time.
A couple of rattling good perform-
ances, and making a rare double,
were those of the full-brothers St.
Comedy and Comic Court, both
ridden by Purtell. Their successes in
the Yuroke and Gisborne Handi-
caps, respectively, brought to around
£ls*ooo the stake-winnings of the out-
standing trio produced by the mating
of Powerscourt-Witty Maid; the
third member of the family is, of
course, Comedy Prince.
The Yuroke Handicap was a five-
furlongs scamper for two-year-olds,
and backers of St. Comedy at 9 to 4
on were a shade perturbed to see the
exceptionally brilliant colt not the
early leader. However, Purtell was
evidently riding to instructions. The
colt proved amenable to being ridden
from behind and mowed them down
when he made his run, winning well
from Boghasi and Macshaw. With
9.2, St. Comedy was conceding 141 b.
to Boghasi and 51b. to Macshaw.
Comic Court and Carbon Copy
were the only ones in much demand
for the 10-furlongs Gisborne Handi-
cap, and the two three-year-olds duly
fought out the finish, with Victoria
Derby-winner Comic Court at 5 to 2
scoring a clear-cut victory over the
slightly better-fancied A.J.C. Derby-
winner. There’s very little between
these two excellent colts, and, all
going well, they should provide some
great racing duels in the next year or
so. In fact, the present three-year-
olds altogether seem likely to give
coming w.f.a. races an interest they
have been somewhat lacking in recent
years. Conceding the youngsters 91b.
a piece, consistent Attley finished third
in the Gisborne.
Failure of Ungar in the mile
Aberfeldie Handicap was on of those
apparently inexplicable happenings
which seem so* often to befall odds-on
favorites. Quite unjustly heckled by
some of the crowd, jockey A. Breasley
gave the colt every possible chance,
yet, running about the worst race of
his career, Ungar finished stone last
in a field of five; actually there were
six starters, but Star of the East
took no part in the race. Ungar led
into the straight, then weakened in
a fashion for which even his top-
weight of 9.7 could scarcely account.
Rocket Gun, whose finishing run
makes his name singularly apt, came
from last to first to down Lord Clive
and Damon.
All other races at the Valley went
to favorites. Charkha (J. Purtell),
in the closest of finishes, defeated
Sun Chick, Rover’s Mark and other
two-year-old fillies over five furlongs.
Taking the first Trial Highweight,
the Foxbridge gelding Foxacre (W.
Williamson) earned £420 of the 3750
guineas he cost as a yearling in New
Zealand; and the aged Cimbnan geld-
ing Return (A. Moon) landed the
Romsey Hurdle.
* * * *
At Canterbury on Saturday, with
a card of eight events, punters topic
the most thorough pasting they ve
suffered since—well, since the last
time. Leading riders Thompson and
Sellwood rode, between them, the
popular picks in six races, and missed
out on the lot. Sellwood, how-
ever, did land two winners, taking
him well to the fore in the riders
premiership. Thompson chalked up
his 23rd consecutive loser.
Nearest thing to a successful
favorite was Huamight (N. Sellwood),
third in the betting at 9 to 2 for the
11-furlongs Frank Underwood Cup.
Nursed along in a handy position
while High Ideals was setting a
drearily slow pace in front, Huamight
was able to turn on a spectacular
finish to down Damadora and Wearie
at the finish. Time for the race was
2.25; in winning the Campsie Mixed
Stakes over the same journey, the
maiden performer Upright (F. Wil-
liams) clocked two seconds faster
than that. Huamight’s last previous
success was at Randwick in Septem-
ber, 1947, when, following a retro-
spective inquiry, the horse and those
then concerned were outed for 12
months.
In the Flying Handicap Thompson
and Sellwood rode the equal favorites
Exalted and Septet. Finishing second
and third respectively in a rattling-
close photo.-tinish, they were near
the money, but the five-year-old Fel-
crag gelding Lucky Escape (L Water-
house) just had the edge on them.
Beaten only by margins of a head
and a half-head, the three-year-old
Septet made a good impression. A
son of Genetout-Hesione, he is bred
for speed and may never run to much
stamina. The slightly prolonged
sprint of the Canterbury 7i-furlong
trip just found him out, but this
lightly raced youngster has a fine
turn of speed and should win his
share.
Top-priced yearling at the last
Sydney sales, Heritor proved expen-
sive for punters, too, when they sent
him out favorite for the Nursery
Handicap (6f.), in which he was
having his first run; he raced greenly
throughout, and finished about ninth.
The Valiant Chief colt Valiant Lee
(R. Pearse) led all the way and
cleared right out in the straight to
score by four lengths from Editor
and Burgona. Heritor, incidentally,
should do better with experience. A
handsome big fellow, described in the
racebook as “brown or black,” but
favoring brown, this son of Le Grand
Due-Heiress fetched 4500 guineas as
a yearling; subsequent to the death
of his first purchaser he was resold
for 2900 guineas.
* .* * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) :
Two-year-old: Flash Back, 1;
Magic Star, 2; Dowager, 3. Novice
Claiming Race: Golden Rust, 1; Mr.
Stanaway, 2; Bold Archer, 3. Ash-
bury Mixed (6f.): Salamanca, 1;
Spanish Duke, 2; Irish Footprints, 3.
Burwood Mixed (9f.): Foxzami, 1;
Upright, 2; Network, 3. Flying;
Shading, 1; Davalomarne, 2; Deep
Sea, 3. Canterbury Park Handicap:
Laughter, 1; Weane, 2; Huamight, 3.
Welter: Casanova, 1; Lone Duke, 2;
Marlume, 3.
For the Oakleigh Plate: Count
Cosmo, 1; San Domenico, 2; Gay
Saint, 3.
« ♦ » ♦
In view of Lloyd La Beach’s loud
criticism of Australian starting
methods after he had been left a
couple of times during his recent visit
here, it is interesting to note that at
his first start since returning to
America the Panamanian sprinter was
beaten in a 60-yards sprint. He was
left at the start.
♦ ♦ * . *
Twice vanquisher of the Dutch-
woman, Mrs. Blankers-Koen, 17-year-
old Lithgow (N.S.W.) lass Marjorie
Jackson looks one of Australia’s best
bets for the forthcoming Empire
Games, provided she is not over-
trained; the youngster has worked
through a pretty hefty programme in
recent weeks. In Sydney on Satur-
day Miss Jackson added the N.S.W.
Country Women’s 100yds. and the
State junior 75yds. titles to her im-
pressive collection. Her times were
11.2 sec. and B.ssec., records for die
respective events,
* * * *
“Retired Wolf” (from the Hill):
The battle of the third women’s Test
match in Sydney was a tonic for
those who rolled up at the Cricket
Ground on Saturday. A true Test
flavor was imparted when the trustees
allowed the girls to use the dressing-
rooms from which rep. players have
tripped or trudged to the arena since
the Australian and English Xls, led
by Billy Murdoch and A. Shaw,
commenced the first Sydney Test on
February 17, 1882 —67 years before,
almost to the day.
England’s first use of the
saw 172 on the Board, with English
skipper M. Hide batting very cor-
rectly to contribute 63; rather more
aggressive, J. Williamson scored 27
and H. Saunders 20. In contempt of
scratched knees and upside-down
attitudes, Australian J. Schmidt
brought off three splendid catches,
and fielding altogether was smart and
alert.
Taking their turn with the bat, the
Australian girls played cautiously,
intent on keeping their wickets intact
for Monday. At stumps the score
was one for 32. On the day, 204
runs were scored for 11 wickets,
which was a darned sight better than
many of the men’s first-grade teams
were able to do on near-by grounds.
* * * *
Sheffield Shield:
N.S.W. had little trouble in wiping
out South Australia in Sydney, doing
so with eight wickets to spare. Down
75 runs on the first innings, South
Australia made a t scratchy effort
against a strong bowling attack to
finish with 206 for the second
knock; Langley (57 n. 0.), Duldig
(34) and O’Neill (31) showed spas-
modic aggressiveness, Walker again (
bowled very well to take three for
39, making his figures for the match
nine for 61. The ’Walers plodded
along methodically .to make the neces-
sary 132. Morris needed 25 to notch
up his 1000 for the season, but made
only 16.
Its four outright and three first-
innings victories (29 points) give
N.S.W. the Sheffield Shield for the
season —its 23rd win since the bauble
became the bone of contention in
Australian cricket in 1892-93.
* * * *
French pugilistic importation Tony
Toniolo (IL3|) showed more courage
than judgment in allowing himself to
be persuaded into the same ring with
Dave Sands (11.5 i) at Melbourne
Stadium.. Seventy seconds after the
first bell Sands had not had time to
“Well go in now—they ain't biting."
warm up, but Monsieur Toniolo was
well and truly out cold. The ex-
penditure of about as much energy
and science as an amateur fisherman
puts into throwing out a line netted
Sands £630, representing £9 per
second. As Toniolo received a like
sum for doing considerably less,
mayhaps he didn’t show such bad
judgment after all.
* * * *
Though lacking his opponent’s ex-
perience, Eric Macready (9.3) had
every physical advantage over Ted
Sprouster (9 .Of) when the pair met
to do stoush at Leichhardt; youth,
too, was on Macready’s side. Still,
experience goes a long way in the
ring, ' and Sprouster was never
dominated by the younger man; he
troubled Macready throughout the
bout. While Macready’s long left
and right leads won the early rounds,
Sprouster’s cleaner and harder
punches had almost made up the
leeway at the end of the 10th; each
won one of the remaining rounds.
Hairline decision to Macready.


Soaj*,
GIOBITE
travel cases
Thay're lighter, stronger, longer* '
lasting. That's -why a Globlte
costs less in the long run.
Mode by
FORD SHEHINGTON LTD.
%u ~
No Investor Can Afford
To Be Without It
ECONOMIC REVIEWS
INVESTMENT ANALYSES
MINING NOTES
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co. Pty., Ltd.,
252 George-street, Sydney, and all States.
Single Copies
Yearly Subscription
2/-
.. 22/6
ly jewelled movements
in exclusive
modern cases,,.
I A VINA
WATCHES
FOUNDED IN lISI
VILL EK CT SUISSE
YOU'LL HAVE THE
>* *
x..
%
m
/
■
•**
3
/
IF YOU AVOID V
Many people these days are merrily
spending all they earn. They know
very well that the prices they pay
are often exorbitant and that the
quality is often poor. But nothing
deters them. They’re so mad to
spend that they even laugh at their
more cautious friends and neigh-
bours who see the wisdom of wait-
ing for better buying conditions.
FAR-REACHING EFFECTS
These careless spenders do a great
deal of harm — not only to them-
selves, but to Australia also. Since
the war, this country has suffered
shortages of many kinds —
shortages of manpower, of raw
materials and of manufacturing
equipment. The result is that Aus-
tralian industry is still unable to
produce everything the public
needs—and competition for scarce
supplies is intense.
Under such conditions prices tend
to rise. But if the competition for
: lave
TO HELP
CONTROL PRICES
scarce goods were to slacken, prices
would be more easily stabilised.
What’s more, with the demand re-
duced, industry would be given the
chance of catching up with total
requirements, and a return to more
favourable conditions would be
accelerated.
Your help is needed to achieve
these improvements. So disregard
the attitude of misguided friends
,and spend nothing except for what
you really need. You’ll have the
last laugh when the money you
save now will buy you high quality
goods at more reasonable prices.
21
rr
MM
■•mm
.vs
m
'
%
SAVE THIS WAY
1. Buy only what you really
need. Avoid luxuries. Get
full value.
2. Buy for cash always.
3. Settle your debts — then pay
your way.
4. Join a National Savings
Group.
5. Build up your Savings Bank
Account.
6. Invest in Commonwealth
Loans.
7. Increase your life assurance.
Authorised by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth.
N 515.113,19
Missing Friends.
BECK.—WILL JANE BECK, formerly of
Mordialloc, in Victoria, or anyone know-
ing her whereabouts, or having any claim
to or interest in property owned by her,
communicate with MESSRS. MACPHEfi-
SON SMITH & DOBSON, Solicitors, 422
Collins Street, Melbourne.
WILL any person claiming to be next-
of-kin or any person having knowledge
of the whereabouts of the next-of-kin of
THOMAS LLOYD, late of Brisbane,
Queensland, Retired Gentleman, who died
at Brisbane on the 6th August, 1902,
please communicate with the PUBLIC
CURATOR OF QUEENSLAND, Edward
Street, Brisbane.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of book on letter-
writing called Get It Right by
Opdyke.—4558.
Name of author and full text
of verse containing the following
stanza: —
Bird of the -wilderness, blithesome and
cumberless,
Sweet be thy matin o’er moorland and
lea;
Emblem of happiness, blest be thy dwell-
ing-place
Oh to abide in the desert with thee.
—4459.
To buy a copy of Polynesian
Paradise by Donald Sloan. Urgently
required for reference purposes.—
4560.
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter. —4561.
Words of verse entitled “Murphy’s
Brindle Cow.” —4564.
To buy H.M.V. gramophone rec-
ords B-4504, “Star of Eve,” and
“Rip Van Winkle,” sung by Peter
Dawson.—4565.
To buy book on woodcarving for
beginners.—4563.
To buy Almanack de Gotha ; any
edition except 1928 and 1939.—4562.
To buy copy of latest edition of
Australian Missionary Directory. —
4566.
To get in touch with agents for
E.B. (Emerson Brantingham) hori-
zontal-type, hopper-cooled kerosene
engine, or anyone who can supply
new connecting-rod and exhaust-valve
for such engine.—4570.
Words of A. B. Paterson verse
containing the line “He would yard
those blanky angoras with a lightning
flash.” —4569.
Printed matter giving details of the
death of Tommy Corrigan, the
jockey.—4568.
To buy two copies of “Life’s
Digest” for August, 1948. —4567.
Words of verse “The Oodnadatta
Trot.”—4571.
Information Sought.
(1) From whom did Benny Leonard
win the world’s lightweight cham-
pionship? (2) Who beat him for
that title ? (3) Where and when was
Leonard born, and is he still alive?
(1) Benny Leonard won the world’s
lightweight championship when he
stopped Freddy Welsh in nine rounds
at Madison Square Garden, New
York, on May 28, 1917. (2) Leonard
was never beaten for this title, and
retired as champion in 1925. (3) He
was born in New York City on April
7, 1896, and acted as an official
referee for the New York Boxing
Commission. He collapsed while
refereeing a contest a few years ago,
and died of heart trouble.
* * * ♦
Method of combating mildew on
shoes, clothing, etc., in a coastal area
where the growth of mildew is in-
credibly rampant?
Little can be done, as mildew-
forming conditions are continuous.
Store clothing in long zippered bags
which have been brushed over with
kerosene or turpentine; wipe out
cupboards with same oils, which are
mildew-deterrents; keep shoes pol-
ished —these oils are present in most
shoe polishes. Hang things in sun-
shine as often as possible, and keep
wardrobe down to a minimum of
clothing. Frequent brushing also
disperses mildew spores.
* * * ♦
How to obtain a gloss when laun-
dering collars?
Use a glaze compounded of {lb.
white starch, ioz. borax, loz. white
soap, 1 dessertspoon glycerine, 1
dessertspoon pure turpentine, 1 tea-
spoon common salt. Dissolve the
soap and borax in 1 pint hot water,
mix all together, then add \ pint
more hot water, and keep in corked
jars. Damp a piece of flannel, dip
it in the glaze and rub over the damp
collar, using very little glaze and
spreading it evenly. Rub over with
a dry linen rag, and polish with a
hot iron which has been well rubbed
on a waxed cloth.
* . * * ♦
Meaning and origin of the word
“cabal’ f ?
It comes from the French “cabale,”
which is derived from the Hebrew
“cabbala” or “kabbalah,” and was
applied in Charles H’s time to the
Privy Council, known as the “Com-
mittee for Foreign Affairs,” which
developed into the Cabinet. The
connection here was pointed by the
fact that the word was spelt by the
initial letters of the names of the
five Ministers, Clifford, Arlington,
Buckingham, Ashley and Lauderdale,
who signed the treaty with France
in 1673. The term has come to mean
a body of intriguers, or a secret
intrigue or conspiracy.
* * * *
When a writer inserts the word
"sic” in brackets after a word or
phrase what does he mean to con-
vey? When should the word be
used?
Sic is Latin for “so,” and is inserted
after a quoted word or phrase to
confirm its accuracy as a quotation,
or occasionally after the writer’s own
word to emphasise it as giving his
deliberate meaning; it amounts to
“Yes, he did say that,” or “Yes, I
do mean that,” in spite of your
natural doubts. It should be used
only when doubt is natural; but
reviewers and controversialists are
tempted to use it over-freely, because
(sic) provides them with an easy form
of sneer.
* * * •
When was gas first introduced to
Sydney? ,
In 1834, at a “Grand Scientific
Exhibition” held in the Royal Hotel
(where Dymock’s stands now). The
exhibition was lighted with gas, and
gas engines were on show. In 1838
gas-making machinery arrived, and
on May 24, 1841, the supply of gas
was ready for 181 private lights,
which increased to 685 in a month.
* * * *
A simple method of testing water
for (1) lead, (2) zinc, (3) copper?
(1) Add six drops of sulphuric acid
to the same amount of water. A
white precipitate will be found if lead
is present. (2) Add six drops of
ferrocyanide of potassium to a small
glass of water. Green will appear if
zinc is present. (3) Add eight drops
of ammonia to the same amount of
water. If the liquid contains copper
it will turn a pale blue.
* ♦ * •
(1) Why is cement mortar prefer-
able to lime mortar for bricking-in a
copper? (2) Will it stand heat nearly
as well?
(1) Greater strength is attained with
cement than with lime. (2) It will
stand heat if properly prepared and
cured. A mix of one part of cement
to three parts of sand with the small-
est quantity of water that will enable
sand and cement to be packed to-
gether is ideal. If this mortar is
rammed into place and kept damp
for several days, then allowed to
dry out thoroughly before heat is
applied, no trouble should be ex-
perienced in keeping the copper in
position.
Brief Answers.
D.M.: (1) Write to Capt. Man-
chester, Stock Inspector, Charleville,
Queensland. (2) Read “Hot
Water” again, particularly the last
three lines R. 8.; Write Under-
secretary, Department of Lands,
Sydney L.M.: Once the trump is
turned up it remains trumps. Nobody
can call for another trump on deal.
....G.H.8.: The growth of algas
can be prevented by the exclusion of
light or by the use of copper sul-
phates as described in a pamphlet
obtainable from the N.S.W. Agricul-
tural Department, Sydney. Copper
sulphate should not be mixed in
metal vessels. The appearance of oil
mentioned could be oil derived from
the algae, but is more likely due to
iron oxide forming a film on the sur-
face.,. J.G.J.: The stifle-joint is the
horse’s knee. The bone-ends forming
a joint are always enclosed in a joint
capsule which is sensitive to injury
and slow to heal. Three bones, the
femur, tibia and patella, form the
stifle-joint and are enclosed by two
communicating joint capsules. This
is a major factor in non-recovery of
damaged stifles RJ.: It is an
American slang word for a cattle
thief....B.L.McK.: Write H. E. C.
Robinson, Pty. Ltd., 221 George-
street, Gregory Publishing Co., 57
Regent-street, and Kenneth Craigie &
Co., 16 Bridge-street—all Sydney—
L. : Hamilton Grieve’s Something
in the Country Air was reviewed in
The Bulletin, January 19, 1949
M. : Write Will Andrade, 173
Pitt-street, Sydney A.8.W.: Write
Robertson and Mullens, 107 Eliza-
beth-street, Melbourne A.E.: (1)
The Spanish dollar is worth about
15s. and the Elizabethan shilling about
£l. (2) A reputable dealer in old
coins is D. Raymond, 128 Bathurst-
street, Sydney.. ..D.W.McD.: The
six S.A. Senators, Beerworth, Critch-
ley, Finlay, Nicholls, O’Flaherty and
Ward, are all Laborites. In the
House of Representatives Cameron
and Mcßride are Liberal-Country
party; Chambers, Russell, Sheehy
and Thompson are Labor
R.C.P.: (1) Yes. (2) Bring to red-
heat where hole is required and cool
slowly. (3) Drill at slow speed. (4)
A carbon drill would do the work.
R.P.: If the £lO per month is
in the nature of a gift, it is not
subject to income-tax. If, however,
the payments are obligatory or in
return for services rendered, then
they will be regarded as income in
the hands of the recipient
LJ.McM.: (1) So far as the Com-
monwealth External Territories are
concerned no licences are granted to
search for abandoned war equipment.
(2) Write Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research, 314 Albert-
street, Melbourne W.G.: It is
probable that Theo. Lawrence &
Sons, Temora (N.S.W.), have one of
the largest turkey farms in N. S.
Wales. They have approximately
5000 birds, mainly American Bronze.
U.A.: (1) April 1, 1946. (2)
Maoris were manpowered in N.Z.
during World War 11. (3) 18 to 40
years, except married women in per-
sonal charge of children under 16.


STUART OF MATAPAN
By "MAGNELL"
DESTROYER Stuart was notable in
several directions; commissioned
in 1918, she was one of the oldest
Fleet units on active service during
Hitler’s war; she was the only
Australian ship in the actual battle
of Matapan (of which she fought more
than her share); and she was distin-
guished in her captain.
Contrary to popular conception, naval
captains are not all of a class who could
lead their men through hell and high
water. But it was. true of Captain
H. M. I* Waller. The men who shipped
with him —“Hard-over Hec,” they called
him ; he was later to go in cruiser Perth —
would have followed him anywhere, led
by the force of his personality, not by that
of his uniform-sleeves.
Rotund, but solidly so, not tall, but
thick, he was a powerhouse of energy,
quick-stepping, snap-thinking and casual-
speaking, with a face the color of well-
used leather usually seamed in a grin.
His nose was bent, and his eyes were
wrinkled at the comers, from long
practice. And, through and through, he
was a destroyer man.
The ship fitted the man. Much has
been made of the “string and wire” that
held her together. Stuart was a flotilla-
leader, a little past her prime, put—and
held—together by the fine craftsmanship
of British workmen. The useful life of a
merchantman is 30 years, though many
run much longer than that. Stuart was
21 when she steamed to war, with only a
fraction of a merchantman’s mileage in
her turbines.
In equipment hand-worked gun-
mountings, gunnery control and no radar
—she was well astern of her modern
sisters. But in her vitals she was sound
enough—she must have been, to pull
through. It was lack of maintenance re-
pairs through overwork that sent her
home for refit —not age. After refitting,
she was used towards the end on fast
ferrying runs to New Guinea waters.
Warships’ big guns have changed little in
their main essentials —new Vanguard’s
are the same design as those which roared
in the Dardanelles and at Matapan —and
Stuart’s 4.7 s packed almost as much
punch as our present Tribals.
But her king-hitters were the multiple
torpedo-tubes amidships. Capable of
carrying 5001 b. warheads up to nine miles
at about 35 knots, their long-range blast
was to be used to effect against an enemy
five times h*er size. Aft, of course, she
carried depth-charges.
Into the Mediterranean
On October 14, 1939, Stuart,' Waterhen
and Vendetta sailed from Sydney to
Singapore. Here the flotilla picked up
Voyager and Vampire, and the five old
ladies, or, rather, termagants, cleared
Singapore with Stuart leading and headed
their sharp noses* west for the Mediter-
ranean, where the infamous Goebbels was
to give them their famous title, the Scrap-
iron Flotilla.
Stuart digressed a few thousand miles
to Diego Suarez, in Madagascar, to join
the force hunting Graf Spee, but with the
pocket-battler, clearing into the Atlantic,
the force’s admiral felt he could afford
to deny himself Stuart’s help, and she
continued on into the Mediterranean after
her sisters arriving in Malta on December
17.
Here the Rear-Admiral, Mediterranean
Destroyers, J. C. Tovey, boarded her, and
told the ship’s company that for practical
purposes the five Australian boats repre-
sented the entire Mediterranean Fleet.
Though this was not strictly so —Cun-
mingham had sent his Battle Fleet west-
ward to reinforce the Home Fleet while
Mussolini was quiet, but it could be, and
was, recalled at short notice —there was
work in plenty, and Stuart found her
share.
Being a destroyer man, Waller was
above" all else a seaman. This he demon-
strated in March, when the British tanker
Trocas broke a propeller-shaft in water
too deep to anchor in off Sicily, upon
whose coast a strong wind was slowly
but surely driving her. After all the sea-
manship-manual. methods had been tried
and rendered abortive by wind and a
confused sea, Waller decided to poke his
nose in, get a line across and tow her bow-
to-bow, leaving Stuart’s screws clear for
manoeuvring.
The wind had fallen and a dense fog
settled, so that she had to approach her
looming target entirely by instruments.
While she was clear neither wind nor ■
sea could harm her; if she touched the
tanker’s resistant bulk a swell colaid crush
her against the steel wall and split her
like tinplate.
But Waller got his line across -and
dragged his prize towards Malta at two
and a half knots. They reached the
island 37 hours later.
Italy Marches
By now France was bleeding under the
German mechanised tread ; the Mediter-
ranean was closed as a supply r route to
the United Kingdom ; Italian military and
air forces far outweighed ours ; Malta
seemed ripe for plucking; and to Mus-
solini, looking it over, it must have
seemed, to use a naval colloquialism,
“like money for old rope.”
At midnight on June 10 Italy declared
war against Britain and France. At dawn
on June 11 Cunningham in Warspite led
Malaya, cruisers Orion, Neptune,
Sydney, Liverpool and Gloucester, carrier
Eagle and a pack of screenifag destroyers
to sea and swept the Mediterranean to
the toe of Italy, They sighted nothing,
but the British Fleet had grasped the
initiative ; it war's never surrendered.
As regards Stuart, she was to prove the
exception to that rule of naval warfare —
months of idleness climaxed by a sudden
hour of action. Almost every day brought
its job. Convoying, mine-finding (in
quick succession she found herself in the
middle of three fields, was miraculously
lucky to come out of it afloat, and when
she did she laid an oil smear two and a
half miles long from the submarine that
laid them), bombarding and, more or less
continuously, fighting off air-attacks.
Stuart v. Rommel
Perhaps her smartest bit of work was a
bombardment of Solium. With destroyer
Griffin she was ordered to Solium to give
assistance to the Army, then on a retiring
eastward leg of its see-saw across Libya,
Believing the port to be ours, Stuart
sailed slowly into the narrow channel,
eased past the big buoy marking its inner
end, and prepared to anchor. The captain
had ordered “Half-astern both” to take
her way off when, from the edge of a
newly-cut road running up over a steep
escarpment ahead, a flash of flame
stabbed at the ship. Fifty yards on the
port bow a six-inch shell landed in a
gout of white water,
Stuart had been built to turn fast, and
she was round and out through that
channel again very smartly. On the way
out'“Guns” had his glasses on the enemy
position. Me saw not only the big gun
with its ammunition-limbers and bustling
crew around it, but, coming down into the
town, a long line of armored trucks, tanks
and all the impedimenta of an advancing
army. The possibilities of a coastal road
crammed with enemy armor, and a fast,
heavily-gunne’d destroyer with plenty of
ammunition, were at once obvious. He
tapped Waller on the shoulder and
pointed.
There were ready-use direct-action
shells at the guns for submarines, and
these were quickly loaded. Her first fall
of shot was so good that she went into
rapid broadsides at once, Griffin joined in,
and soon a great burst of flame and dirty
yellow smoke heralded the end of the
Germans’ six-incher’s ammunition and its
crew.
All along the road dust spurted amongst
the vehicles, with here and there the
smoky red of a fire. Then the line
turned about and headed at speed back
up the road that had become a death-trap.
The destroyer sighted a large concen-
tration of tanks at the top of the escarp-
ment, evidently waiting their turn to de-
scend. Ammunition was switched to
semi-armor-piercing, and accurate fire
opened on the milling herd. It was a
gunnery officer’s picnic. She was much
closer now, opposition silenced, cruising
up*and down in a calm sea at a steady
25 knots, every seven seconds four 4.7
h.-e. shells bursting with shattering effect
amongst that tightly-packed target. Fires
soon started and clouds of dust rolled
into the still air as the Germans tried
frantically to get clear.
Finally, streaming in a disorganised
rout away from the coast, the enemy got
clear, leaving the twisted, burning re-
mains of half-a-score heavy tanks on the
plateau. The two destroyers had halted
Rommel’s army for a time, Stuart had
fired with such will that her magazines
were almost cleared; even star- and
practice-shell had gone.
So, with sharp glances skyward and a
feeling of eminent satisfaction in their
hearts, both boats set course home for
Mother Alex.
The Night Off Matapan
The strategy, tactics and manoeuvres of
the Battle of Matapan have been ade-
quately covered elsewhere, and this neces-
sarily brief chronicle concerns itself
mainly with Stuart’s gyrations. It was
another destroyers’ picnic. All the in-
gredients were there —a dark night, the
enemy flustered (to put it kindly), ships
burning into the perfect target, and one’s
own heavy stuff to back one, up.
Briefly, the opening moves were these.
At noon on March 27, 1941, three enemy
cruisers and a destroyer were reported by
air reconnaissance 120 miles s.-e. of Italy's
toe, steering s.-e. As the Admiralty re-
port mentions, it was little enough on
which to form a vital decision, but Cun-
ningham made it. At dusk that day he
sailed the Fleet from Alexandria.
Before its units lose themselves in their
grim game of hide-and-seek, it would be
as well to designate them.
The C.-in-C. led the Battle Fleet in
Warspiite, with Barham, wearing the flag
of Rear-Admiral H. B. Rawlings, com-
manding Ist Battle Squadron, Valiant and
carrier Formidable, and the 14th
Destroyer Flotilla (Jervis, Janus, Nubian
and Mohawk) with the 10th Flotilla
(Stuart, Greyhound, Griffin, Hotspur and
Havock) led by Waller.
The second-in-command, Vice-Admiral
Pridham-Wippell, was ordered to rendez-
vous next morning south of Gavdhos
Island, with cruisers Orion, Ajax, Perth
and Gloucester and the 2nd Destroyer
Flotilla. It was this cruiser force, after a
snappy action of its own, which feigned
flight and drew the Italian ships into the
jaws of Cunningham’s hounds.
At 2040 on the night of March 27, the
admiral sent most of his destroyers ahead
tck attack a heavy force, including the
battleship Vittorio Veneto, which had
been damaged by Fleet Air Arm tor-
pedoes. He could spare only eight boats,
an absurdly small force for the job, and
no one was under any illusions as to their
chances. Cunningham kept Waller, with
Havock, Greyhound and Griffin.
What at this point nobody appreciated
was that an enemy cruiser, the Pola, had
previously been stopped dead by a
Swordfish’s torpedo, and that three eight-
inch cruisers and some destroyers from
the main Italian Fleet had turned back
to support her. It was these ships that
Warspite sighted unexpectedly at close
range at 2225.
Target!
The night was clear and dark, and to
the British line, darkened and alert,
sweeping on in line-ahead battle forma-
tion, it was soon apparent that the enemy
ships were sublimely unaware of their
presence. The range was under two
miles —suicidal for anything on the re-
ceiving end of the British 15-inchers.
Then, utterly without warning, a great
eye of light opened from Greyhound’s
midships and bore its questioning stare
full on the second ship of the enemy
line : she stood naked and revealed, in
dumbstruck anticipation before the
barrelled snouts which swung upon her.
Warspite’s terrible guns thundered—
one broadside, and the Italian ship ex-
ploded into a mane of flame and flung
debris.
In the flagship’s four turrets eight man-
high shells, banded green for “T.N.T.-
filled,” came jolting up the hoists into the
gunhouses from shellrooms far below.
They lay a moment in rear of the
breeches’ waiting maws before each with
its cordite behind it rammed hard up
iijto the gun. Breeches slammed shut,
twisted and locked into place.
Then a tiny electric spark transformed
the thin brown stalks of cordite into a
gaseous giant that roared, flung the 4ft.-
thick breechblock back a couple of feet,
shot another broadside into the quivering
Fiume and reduced her to unresisting
ruin. ,
The whole British battle-line was in
action now, their guns choirs of flame
whose fierce monotone of thunder struck
into the hearts of their white-painted
targets. , _ , .
It was now apparent why Greyhound
had fastened her eye on the second ship.
Seen from battleship Barham, the lead-
ing cruiser wa.s beautifully silhouetted,
in the beam. She suffered accordingly,
and turned, stricken, to starb’d, her sides
blasted open so that the dull glow of
internal fires showed through her smoke.
Her identity and fate were unknown,
though there seems little doubt of the
latter
That left one cruiser, Zara. It is
doubtful if in the history of naval war-
fare any other single ship has been the
target for such a deluge of shells as
were poured into this luckless craft. At
3000 yards all three battleships bore their
full main armament on her and let go,
broadside after broadside. 9
Long before Nelson the British Navy
had pinned its faith on controlled, con-
centrated broadsides from all guns. It
was the same at Matapan. Though one
gun may have been brought to the ready
before another, training ensured that the
time-discrepancy was no more than
seconds, so that before the director-layer,
watching Zara through his binoculars in
the control-tower high above his bridge,
pressed his electric trigger, all gun-ready
lamps were burning, and several times
every minute the staggering Italian shud-
dered under the concentrated blast of
eight one-ton high-explosive shells. When
the awful battering ceased, she was a
riven hulk.
Identified
About this time Stuart, held in leash
to starb’d and with her full head of steam
champing at the bit, got slightly out of
station. From the Brock’s display of •
red and green tracer, falling starshell,
burning ships and stabbing gun-flashes,
an intense beam of white light split the
darkness, wiped its finger along Stuart s
hull, and steadied. Out of the murk
behind it loomed a vast shape, so close
that the destroyer’s company heard the
grind of her turrets as they swung upon
her. For one tense moment Stuart’s
men looked into those smoking maws;
then, satisfied, the barrels trained off her,
Warspite ploughed on and Stuart scuttled
back to her place in the screen.
This small incident illustrates a point
which most historians, in haste to count
the enemy’s losses and laud absence of
ours, have missed. This was the steadi-
ness of the British guns: it won Mata-
pan. What is remarkable is not the sink-
ing of three probably unarmored Italian
cruisers surprised by three British battle-
ships —had the enemy cruiser-line been
German the story might have been dif-
ferent—but the fact that, in all that
Witches’ Sabbath of battleships, cruisers
and torpedoing destroyers milling in the
black night with maximum ranges of
4000 yards on guns used to 20,000, no
British ship fired on a friend. The ranks
of Tuscany were not so discriminating.
The Boats Go In
Surprisingly, the Italian destroyers had
a go before clearing off to the westward.
Several appeared astern of Fiume (the
first cruiser hit) and fired a salvo of tor-
pedoes at the battleships.
But Cunningham had their measure,
and swung his line to starb’d, as he
turned letting loose his ship-side 6in.
batteries on the leading attackers. Several
were hit.
Then he slipped the leash from his own
waiting destroyers; and, with most of
his own time spent in active command
of the lethal midgets, hauled his lumber-
ing battle-line well clear to the north-
east before the Donnybrook began.
The 10th Flotilla went off in pairs—
Stuart and Havock towards the burning
cruisers. Greyhound and Griffin after the
destroyers, now fleeing under the shock
of their own temerity.
It was just on 2300 when Stuart
reached Zara, stopped and ablaze. The
torpedo-sight was bearing on her bridge
when another, and apparently un-
damaged, cruiser was sighted beyond her.
{Continued on page 34.)


ONE THING IS CERTAIN
When shearing is over and the last load moves away from the shed, do you
kjiow how much your wool will bring when the bidding starts?
One thing is certain. A.M.L.&F.’s wise valuing, careful lotting and attractive
display, combined with the expert and experienced service of the A.M.L.&F.
auctioneer, will draw the highest possible bid for your wool.
Small clip or large, consign it to A.M.L.&F., the organisation with 85 years of
wool-selling experience.
85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile, Land
:iie, Land & Finance Coy. Ltd.
Inc. in England in 1863.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 19.22
The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
DAVIS
mmsmsm
40z., Box., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores,
For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
'O'T
ft'"}
Yoar c Hole it CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is fo*
sweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Zebus for N.T.
“Clunesman”: Neglecting the
fact that strains of British breeds
in the Territory have been
observed to be resistant to ticks
and that, on the whole, they
stand up to climatic conditions
fairly well, where could the
zebus be put (B. 19/1 /’49)?
Dr. Kleberg, of the King
Ranch (Texas), describing the
cattle, stated in regard to tem-
perament that “they were not
mug’s cattle,” and one of the
main factors in controlling them
was regular and skilled handling.
In the N.T. under present
conditions this is impossible,
owing to shortages of labor and
material. Even if the unfenced
properties (this category includes
most of the stations) were
fenced, the paddocks would have
to be so large to be an economic
possibility that sufficient hand-
ling would still be impracticable.
Though there may be something
in sending a “competent obser-
ver” overseas to investigate the
problem, it has received close
attention, from Australia’s point
of view, from the C.5.1.R.,
through which Dr. R. B. Kelley,
D.V.Sc., published the bulletin
“Zebu-Cross Cattle in Northern
Australia—An Ecological Ex-
periment.”
Inter alia, he states that “the
temperaments of zebus and of
their cross-bred progeny appear
to be the only deterrents likely
to restrict their usefulness in
Australia.”
It is obvious, therefore, that
before starting a “big stud herd”
(of zebus) a lot of other things
would have to be done which,
at the present time, cannot be
done.
Dingo Fences.
“Outback”: The Federal
Government has refused a
Queensland Government request
for a grant from the war-time
wool-profits fund towards the
cost of building a dingo fence,
estimated to run into £450,000.
The fence, if built, will com-
pletely protect Queensland’s
sheep areas. It will run from
Cloncurry east to Hughenden,
thence south-east, avoiding the
cattle country, and thence south
to the N.S.W. border through
the Roma district.
The reason given by the
Federal Government for refus-
ing the grant was that the fund
was not raised for such a pur-
pose. That may be, but the
fund comprises money made
from the sab of wool, sheep-
skins and other wool by-pro-
ducts during the war, and the
Government has held on to it
for the purpose, as the Prime
Minister put it, of financing the
expansion and development of
the wool industry. There won’t
be much of either in Queens-
land unless dingo damage is re-
duced.
The proposed fence has a
number of antagonists, but those
who have studied th? problem
from a State-wide point of view
contend that until ingress of the
dogs from the N.T., S.A. and
Queensland cattle areas is effec-
tively blocked they can never
be eliminated. The fence may
take six years to construct, and
it is hoped that eventually a
trafficable road will run the
whole length of it, for servicing
maintenance-men and general
use. While the high prices for
wool continue, and the world
sheep shortage indicates that
they will, even a Federal grant
from consolidated revenue for
the fence would be a good
national investment.
Graziers’ Needs.
“Oxo”: At the request of the
Australian Meat Board, the
United Graziers’ Association
(Q.) is conducting a census of
graziers’ essential materials’
needs. When only about half of
the branches had replied, the
total was 26,345 tons, including
water-piping 5321 tons, fencing-
wire 4385 tons, barbed-wire
3441 tons, galvanised-iron 4612
tons, bore-casing 2196 tons, wire-
netting 1410 tons, steel posts
4795 tons. The total is being
added to daily. The A.M.B.
has expressed its “concern” at
the effect the shortage of essen-
tial materials is having on live-
stock production, and when all
States have submitted particulars
of their requirements, through
the Primary Producers’ Council,
the Board will use the informa-
tion in an effort to impress upon
the powers-that-be the import-
ance of supplies.
In south-eastern Queensland
border districts rabbits are a
more serious pest today than
ever, and one of the most bitter
to complain is a grazier who
for years and years paid an
employee to see that not one
rabbit got through the netting
fence. If one did get through
he had to raise the alarm for
assistance to catch the intruder.
Now the rabbits are literally
pouring in.
Lucerne Pasture.
“Jock”: L. J. Cook, in the
“Journal of Agriculture” (S.A.),
reports results of lucerne-grow-
ing experiments in S.A.’s mid-
north. They confirm the chang-
ing policy of pasture in the dis-
trict. Grown on sandy loam,
limestone loam, brown earths
and hill slopes with rainfall vary-
ing from nine to 22in. a year,
lucerne showed all its good
points—suitability to many soils,
drought-resisting and using rain
at all times of the year, an im-
prover of soil fertility and a
nreventive of erosion. Lucerne
hay is a valuable reserve in
bard years, and when the plant is
reaped for seed it gives a good
return. No wonder the lucernp
acreage in the mid-north of
S.A. has doubled in 20 years.
Observations made by farmers
are interesting. The pasture has
so far survived 10 seasons with
"I'll be darn glad when they import some wire-nettin '!”
cultivation and a topdressing
with 80 to 90 pounds of super,
an acre yearly. Lucerne on un-
supered areas is of little value.
The economic aspect is sound
—from the points of view of
grazing (carrying capacities were
generally over a sheep to the
acre and up to 2.8 sheep per
acre), soil-improvement, return
from seed and hay, and erosion-
control on hill slopes. Better
stands grew when the lucerne
was sown at the rate of 41b. to
the acre without a cover crop
and was not grazed the first
year.
Drenching.
“A.M.M.”; Speed in drench-
ing is not everything, and unless
the correct amounts are given
the work and money involved
will go for nothing. Instruc-
tions sent with the drench should
be carefully read. During the
summer all sheep should be
drenched three weeks to a month
after heavy rain. Treatment
should be repeated 10 to 14 days
after an outbreak, but a month
or more may elapse when
drenching is done as a preven-
tive measure.
Do not starve sheep prior to
drenching. All instruments
should be checked to ensure that
they are in proper working
order. No rough edges on the
ends of the metal nozzles; they
can cause abrasions inside the
mouth, and infection can set in.
Rough handling, and forcing
the gun into the mouth, are to
be avoided. Where it is neces-
sary to give two doses no diffi-
culty will be experienced in
getting the sheep to swallow the
drench if a little time is allowed
between each dose.
Where tablets are used, inject
them well on to the back of the
tongue, where they will be
readily swallowed. Regurgita-
tion sometimes occurs where
sheep have been yarded for some
time before drenching or have
been on dry feed. Drench as
soon as possible after yarding,
and give access to water before
and after giving the tablets.
Nutrition plays a big part in
the degree of worm-infestation,
and poorly-fed sheep have not
the same resistance to worms as
well-nourished ones. Over-
stocking is economically un-
sound from*this point of view
alone, apart from others. Micro-
scopic examination, under
veterinary supervision, of slieep
droppings is an accurate method
of determining the degree of
worm - infestation. Prevention
rather than cure should be the
aim, and, to twist an old saying,
a pound in time saves nine.
Fruit Drop.
“M.”: It can be practically
eliminated by use of a new
chemical, alpha naphthalene
acetic acid. Sprayed on the
tree at a dilution of 10 parts
per million, the chemical is
absorbed by the fruit and pre-
vents the formation of corky
tissue in the stalk (the cause of
shedding). Effects of the spray
last for about a fortnight, and
Vic. Department of Agriculture
horticulturists recommend spray-
ing eight to ten days before the
vulnerable harvest period, or im-
mediately, if a heat-wave or
windstorm is forecast.
The chemical can be used in
conjunction with lead arsenate
or D.D.T. sprays. If used on
its own, mix a half-gallon of
white-oil emulsion to each 100
gallons of the spray. Give a
complete coverage, and to en-
sure this allow a slightly greater
gallonage per tree. Williams-
pear and Jonathan-apple are
varieties most vulnerable to
dropping. The department will
supply growers with further in-
formation if they write for it.
Water in Tractor Tyres.
“Sundowner”: Tests in the
U.S. have proved that tractor
tyres completely filled with water
develop their highest efficiency.
With this method the tractor
slips less, pulls more, rides easier.
An advantage is that once water-
inflated to the correct pressure
the tyres need no further atten-
tion because they never lose
pressure.
There is an automatic pres-
sure adjustment, to compensate
within limits for shift of weight
from one side of the track to
♦
the other when the tractor is
working on a hillside or when
the furrow-wheel carries more
weight than the land-wheel. In-
creased weight, it was found,
gave the tyres a better grip on
the ground and reduced slippage
to a minimum. Under some
conditions drawbar pull is in-
creased by nearly a third of a
ton.
Field tests disclosed that there
was no difference in the “bruis-
ability” (of tyres under three
different inflation methods: air,
air and water, and all water. A
special pump is needed to ex-
haust all air from the tyres be-
fore the water is pumped in.
Victorian Wheats.
“Mr.”: Recommended by
Vic. Department of Agriculture
for sowing this ye.ar are:
Wimmera, black soils. Pinnacle,
Quadrat, Magnet, Diadem; red
and fringe soils. Quadrat, Mag-
net, Bencubbin and, for trial,
Pinnacle, Insignia and Diadem.
Mallee, central and southern,
Insignia, Bencubbin, Quadrat,
Pindar and, for trial. Diadem;
northern, “Insignia, Bencubbin,
Quadrat and, for trial. Diadem.
Mid-north, west of Sheppar-
ton-Tocumwal railway. Insignia,
Quadrat, Magnet, Bencubbin
and, for trial, Diadem and Pin-
dar ; east of railway, Quadrat,
Magnet, Baldmin, Bencubbin,
Insignia and, for trial. Pinnacle,
Pindar and Diadem.
Other districts. Pinnacle,
Quadrat, Insignia, Magnet (hay
wheat) and, for trial. Diadem.
Hay wheats are: Bencubbin
(northern). Magnet (Wimmera
and north-east), and Warden,
Wardfir and Turvey (southern).
Good Australian Wheats.
“He-ne”: Australian wheat-
growers and -breeders should be
gratified. The British authority
on wheats, Dr. Kent-Jones, said
in England that some Australian
wheats were better than top-
grade Manitoba. Dr. Kent-
Jones ranks Cailloux, Charter,
Yalta and Gabo as exceptionally
strong wheats, making well-bal-
anced doughs. In English
blends, these wheats would be
more useful than top-grade
Manitoba and would carry
weaker wheats better than Can-
adian wheats.
The praise is well borne out
by the 1949 f.a.q. standard just
determined by the Sydney
Chamber of Commerce after
mixing and weighing 285 samples
from all N.S.W. centres. F.a.q.
this year was set at 63ilb. per
bushel, 31b. higher than last
year. A flourmiller of long ex-
perience named Crago described
this year’s wheat as the best
sample he had seen in 50 years,
being high in protein quantity
and quality. Current wheat is
mostly bright and even, although


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
ON
OSWIJUVAK
fftvu
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS A OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! ! PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
Your Dog
Whenever your dog it listless, moody or
won't eat his food whenever his nose
is warm or if his coat is dull, loose
or ragged, the most likely cause of these
symptoms is digestive disorders. To help
correct this trouble give him a course of
Barko Condition Powders immediately.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS
1/6 PER BOX AT ALL CHEMISTS
ROMDIDSON-TIPPITI
ENGINES
POWC*'
tiqhHtf oppffeei/
Power rightly applied can perform any task and
Bonaldson-Xippett Engines of many types for
many jobs are built to faithfully discharge
every duty demanded of them.
Engine users everywhere pay tribute to the
policy of the Ronaldson-Xippett organization
which insists that no care Is too great to assure
users of life-long satisfaction.
You, as a prospective engine buyer, may depend
upon it that your money invested in a Ron.ald-
son-Xippett Engine will bring you the dependable
POWER you seek!
RONALDSON BROS, & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office; Ballarat, Victoria. Showrooms: 628 Bourke St.» Mel-
bourne. N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., 42
Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
.
RON OLDSON-TIPPETT
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes andEyelida
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A.Rose & Co.Pty. Ltd. King St. Sydney
BANISH GREY HAIR]
with
NASONS!
Available at
\ Anthony Horderns^
TILLEY LAMPS
Regd.
■ .. - -V'. , ) .
BURN ORDINARY KEROSENE
THE MODERN FORM OF PORTABLE LIGHTING
>5
mm
» * \
mm
& • 1
U-
lO
SdWVI A-31
i
£ :•-'
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD M
OF ENGLAND
London Offices and Showrooms :
33 SACKVILLE STREET, PICCADILLY, W.l.
Australian Representatives:
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.,
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, Cl.
a little pinching is noticeable at
the tip of the seed.
The grain is hard, vitreous and
horny in appearance, and is the
delight of growers, breeders and
millers.
Feeding Poultry.
“K.J.T.”; Many poultry-
keepers, especially when the
fowls are merely household pro-
viders, don’t realise that hens
won’t lay continuously unless
properly fed. If the birds are
up to standard in other respects,
and healthy, poor laying means
wrong food. Most of these
backyard poultry-keepers think
anything will do a fowl. When
these people have ten fowls they
give them a saucepan of feed ;
when they have 20 they still
feed only the same amount.
Naturally, any fowl will lay
in the spring, but in summer
and autumn eggs can’t be ex-
pected unless the birds are
looked after properly. On the
other hand, if feed is given so
freely that a lot is left in the
yard or the troughs after the
birds have had their fill, that
is just as bad. When food is
left like it can sour the
birds’ appetites.
Better Labelling.
“He-ne”: Fruit officers of the
N.S.W. Government are in-
sisting that fruit-boxes for ex-
port be more neatly labelled. In
some instances labels have
shifted, or have become badly
discolored. The cause is usually
poor-quality paste, faulty past-
ing of labels to boxes, and the
use of dirty paste and inferior
brushes.
Photographs from abroad
show Australian labels peeling
from the boxes, some so badly
torn as to make them unattrac-
tive and almost unrecognisable.
If Australia is going to com-
pete successfully on the export
market our packets must at least
be as neat and attractive as those
of our competitors.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bill C.”: I’ve seen birds
raiding mulberry-trees. effec-
tively bluffed when a thick rope
or hose-pipe painted to stimu-
late a large snake was hung in
the branches. Flying-foxes do
not like lengths of stiff barbed-
wire strung from poles in the
orchard. Small trees may often
be kept free of night-flying pests
if bells are hung in the trees.
“Sarina”: On many farms,
the poultry, kept penned during
the day, are let out of the yard
for a brief run in the late after-
noon before they go to roost.
Make sure they don’t visit a
patch of zamia-palms, common
in many districts. They’re
attracted by the poisonous nuts,
and, if they peck a few pieces,
will be dead in the morning.
Zamia nuts also are toxic to
pigs.
“Big Billy”: Bots may be re-
moved from a horse’s stomach
by a ball containing six drachms
of bisulphide (for an animal
weighing 10001 b.). Administer in
a gelatine capsule. Give bran
mashes for two days, then starve
overnight before treatment.
Don’t give purgatives before or
after the ball.
“Biro”: Heliotrope weed (B.
19/1/ ’49) has been causing
sheep losses for nearly 20 years,
especially in southern Riverina
and Victoria. Its effects seem
to be cumulative, or perhaps the
plant is more poisonous after
being grazed for a time. Sheep
are not fond of the weed .and
avoid it when clover is plenti-
ful. The obvious remedy,
therefore, is to improve the
pastures wherever possible.
“Myrr”: Lemon-scab dis-
figures the fruit, causing small
brown to black sunken areas in
the skin. The same organism is
responsible for brown, dead
patches on young lemon-shoots.
It usually appears from June
to September, but control mea-
sures are best applied in autumn.
Spray in March-April with a
Bordeaux mixture, 3-3-50, and
if there is any seale ion the
tree add white-oil emulsion, 1
in 40.
“W. Court”: My neighbor
declares stubbornly that salt-
petre (nitrate of potash) is a
great help in encouraging slow-
burning stumps to ignite (B.
12/1/’49). He bores a good
deep hole in the stump, packs in
2oz. to 4oz. of saltpetre, fills the
hole with water, and plugs it
tight. Later on, he fires in the
usual way and the stump is
burned out.
“Plane Creek”: Phosphorus
is essential to plant growth. I
burned half a dozen wallaby
carcasses in a heap on a fallow
block. Later, rain fell and
caused summer-grass to spring
up. When the grass was 6in.
high elsewhere, it rose to nearly
18in. over that heap of charred
bones in the paddock.
“K.J.T.”: Milk is valuable
for poultry of all ages. It can
be given to drink or used in the
mash. For chicks it promotes
growth. Mash can be mixed
thinner when with milk, especi-
ally for growing pullets. The
reason is that milk is rich in
vitamins and water is not. Pure
milk (fresh or sour) and pow-
dered milks are satisfactory.
Don’t use fresh milk one day
and sour the next; stick to the
one or bowel troubles may
occur.
“Sundowner”; Effects of take-
all and haydie, fungus diseases
of cereal crops, will be mini-
mised if depth of seeding is in-
creased, more super, used to
give a more vigorous germina-
tion and a wider rotation
adopted which, prior to the
sowing of the crop, should in-
clude one crop which is not
susceptible to the disease —peas
or some other legume.
“My”: Feed a dry cow well,
and when necessary supplement
failing pastures by handfeeding.
While she’s out of production
body-tissues lost during the
previous lactation have to be
replaced and reserves for the
coming season built up. If she
is allowed to calve in low con-
dition she can’t be expected to
produce milk and build up her
strength at the same time. She’ll
then be “milking off her back” —
that is, drawing on body-tissue
to produce milk, and this will
lead inevitably to loss of flesh
and a drop in production.
“M.”: To make a squeegee
for removing liquid •from a con-
crete floor, cut a 10in. section
from an old car tyre, remove
the wire beading and nail the
section to the head of an old
yard broom.
“P.M.”: The suggestion by
“He-ne” (B. 9/2/’49) that
farmers should help combat the
rabbit menace by going to
Sydney and manufacturing wire-
netting at Lysaght’s seems,
theoretically, excellent. But who
is going to look after the farm
in the farmer’s absence —the
rabbits?
“8.A.”: The statement (B.
26/1/’49) that the timber of the
“honeysuckle” is soft, easily
worked, rich in color and hand-
somely figured is correct, but
unfortunately it is particularly
susceptible to dry-rot and in-
festation by borers. Although
the trees were fairly numerous
in some localities, reasonably
straight, sound logs of millable
length were hard to find even
in the days when blackwood,
one of our most valuable
timbers, was regarded as of no
commercial value whatever.
These facts and the stunted
nature of the tree account for
its being regarded as valueless
from a commercial point of
view.


Genuine REISER pattern
SECATEURS
TOLEDO alloy steel cutting blade.
nickel plated and polished.
Price 32 /«- each, post free.
Wholly
TOLEDO STEEL COMPANY.
7 Rickard Avenue, Mlosman.
P.O. Box 15, Mosman, N.S.W.
STOPvounßuptiire
Worries/
df
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and U Days ’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
eg;
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Has all the finest features
SEND FOB
ILLUSTRATED
LITERATURE
of high-priced Imported
machines at only a frac-
tion of their cost The
“National" Rotary Dupli-
DETails AND cat or will reproduce
prices on Typing. Writing. Plans,
application Mu>Jc etc
Built entirely tn Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—*
SYDNEY W. C. Penfold A Co. Pty. ltd
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd
ADELAIDE . . Vsrdon A Sons Ltd
to ci/
HONOLULU LADY
Mixing cocktails is fun. Guests like to watch you
.measure and shake ... Be nonchalant, they’ll
be impressed! For a change try this one,
made with fresh fruit juices.
3
&
m
h onol^ lU IADV
Gin
\ Vicker
pineapp lc
lemon j ulcC
i 0l«'g e >’ lice
HJ,
« d “ u lrJ^ wEU -
■
I
Send for the FREE VICKERS RECIPE BOOK
containing 60 tested recipes for easily-made cocktails and long
( Jilr drinks, with all instructions for mixing. Write to The United
mixing.
'" miF Distillers Pty. Ltd., P.O. Box 75 9G, Elizabeth St., Melbourne.
ICKERS GIN
Acnce
sj
<9?
7
Gt
*
■fam
m.
yi
fiuARW^Tt
Q
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying Sanitary System
(Established 1927)
IMITATION IS SINCEREST FORM OF FLATTERY
Beware of imitations similar in appearance but lacking the internal patent which
makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator so efficient,
investigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona tides of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissolven-
ators sold during the past 22 years be
your guide—do not be misled by specious
statements.
Intending purchaser? are invited to
HYGEIA
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
A
-Established 20 years.-
DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Diet. g’og
QUEENSLAND: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q land), ouy
Queen St., Brisbane. Collins gt> Me ibourae.
VICTORIA: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.) Pty., Uta., Edment - S Building,
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co. t&.A.;.
Rundle St., Adelaide. ~ Murray St., Perth.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: R. P. M^ ern L e J U nce?ton and Hobart.
TARTU AN! A • Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd.,
DARWIN • 0. T. See Kee, Radolectrix. Sales and Service.
HANGING GARDENS
By “COL M.”
The louder form of necktie
appears to be getting its coils
around our throats, and is actu-
ally a subtle form of fifth-
column on the part of dress-
reformers. Starting in this small
way at the neck they plan even-
tually to strip us of our “dismal”
clothing, and leave us clad in
spotted shorts and shirt.
One can see the pattern of
their initial, sabotage by study-
ing the case of a particular
victim named George. Today
he is a buyer who will dig down
to the lining whenever he sees a
necktie that he regards as a
collector’s item. Only a year
ago he wore a plain navy-blue
cravat for several months until
finally, while being adjusted be-
fore the saloon mirror, it broke
apart in his hands.
Without an ounce of clair-
voyance in the lot of us we
escorted George around the
corner and bought him a tie. It
featured a ripsnorting saga of
the Old West, starting with a
stack of poker-chips at the top
and winding up with a row of
tombstones at the bottom.
That was the beginning. For
a while he toyed with five-bob
“paper-backs” (so to speak), and
we felt it was the worst day’s
work we had ever done.
Winter came, and he burned
the lot and made a fresh start.
He now claims with quiet con-
fidence that if anyone can find
a volume on his shelves that is
not the first edition of an estab-
lished classic he’ll throw a
party. He has them all —from
“The Roses” to “The Willow
Pattern,” from thirty shillings to
three guineas. They can be art.-
silk lined or closed at the back,
and the only thing common to
them all; is the extraordinary
width at the bottom.
The most frightening thing
about it is that we who have
seen this happening to him, seen
him refuse to buy a pound of
prawns so that he could put a
deposit on another masterpiece,
should have the sense to know
better. Yet there is a trace of
jealousy in our voices when we
assert: “They may be bright,
but they do look good on him.
But none of us could get away
with them.”
It’s a lie, and I for one know
very well that the urge I’ve had
recently to go out and buy a
necktie of around about 200
watts is held down only by the
strongest determination, and the
fact that where I work they
don’t pay until the end of the
month, anyway.
That is possibly why the dress-
reformers flatly state that they
can see the day when George’s
atomic eye-bashers will be lost
in the colorful uproar of all
male ties.
Then, they say, we’ll feel free.
“Tilba Tiga”: Lying between
the “lubritorium” and “fruitery”
at the bottom of the Sydney
suburban hill is a new place of
business, just set up, and as yet
unclassified by the new genera-
tion of signwriterg. Until thev
do give it a name —and it’s
bound to be a classic —they are
compromising with lettering on
the window to the effect that if
the week’s washing is brought
along it will be handed back
clean in 20 minutes flat. The
place is furnished with a dozen
modern washing-machines and
a row of comfortable armchairs
opposite. The fact that on a
recent inspection each of these
held a beaming matron may
mean a possible change in
Monday’s flapping landscape,
and could be indicative of future
better fare and brighter table-
talk when the suburb’s males,
fagged with their struggles with
the city, flop down to Monday's
evening meal.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Fame and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany .
MS. should be addressed to the Editor,
R.K.: Your statement that you
also do yogi exercises came as no
surprise.... Flat Foot Floogy’s An-
cestral Cobber: The practice of
using two-line pen-names is frowned
upon by our auditors G.F.: Have
another try at it and you should have
what we want.. ..R.L.; Autumn
poets must wait until the verse
Editor reckons we’ve had summer.
....X.L.: Not likely J.K.F.: All
right then, a morsel of your “Ode to
an Enicure” •
~ ■’
Golden syrup, served with fish,
OaXZails 8 , taken raw,
I utterly abhor.
... .W.P.D.: Dentist poem excru-
daringly hackneyed J.P.: Your
trip to Manly stops some miles short
of Parnassus, but, if you are young,
keep sailing....V.E.: Don’t know
what we could do with “Union
Jack”; except, perhaps, wave it....
Don Q.: You are trying to pack all
your punch into a cliohd... .8.A.J.:
Too long, too loose, too naive
8.E.: That jeep needs a lot of work
on it; chiefly tightening...
No different from the average “Tropi-
cal Storm” R.H.T.: A creditable
piece of verse; but that’s not enough,
V.S.: If you stick at it you may
see yourself published in a year or
two A.G.W.: An epigram needs
to be shorter and sharper than that,
0.8.5.: Jingle too jaunty and too
jolting Dynamite Dan: You nearly
blew in 8.E.8.: A featherweight.
....8.F.H.: The fishing poem is the
freshest but not enough kick in it
Bellerive: We trust he had a happy
end: —
....F.P.: Too much like a prose
variation of “The Face on the Bar-
room F100r”.... G. 8.8.: Sick-bed
repentance occurs too often in fiction
of that type C.K.: Longwinded
as it stands. Get to work on it
again S.D.H.: An everyday ro-
mance drably told J.R.H.: Only
place for that collection of monsters
is a lethal chamber M.C.: You
take a long time to say very little.
W.S.S.: It would make excellent
reading from a soap-b0x....M.L.:
Promising; should say you have it in
you to do something better—
E.V.W.: You’ve got an infinite
capacity for using sue words where
one would dp better.
THE SWAGMAN.
Long miles he’d trudged
With a swag on he’s back
A lonely old man on
The wallaby track.
He asked for tobacco
Which the chief did give
With a two shilling piece
To help him to live.
Game in misfortune
A poor roving outcast
Trudging the track in
Long years of the past.


“It’s easier to do business
with a man than an address!”
df
As my firm’s export manager, I find it pays to
do business with a man and not just an address.
Correspondence is cut to the bone, misunder-
standings are prevented, problems are discussed
and solved right on the spot.
That’s where Speedbird service and 8.0.A.C.’s
more than 72,000 miles of world-wide air routes come in. 8.0.A.C.
usually flies where I want to go, and Speedbird service gets me or
my freight there in a hurry and right on schedule. Arranging my
trips is easy. The local 8.0.A.C. Appointed Agent fixes everything.
No crowds or confusion, and no red tape. Everything goes like
clock-work, but with this important difference : there’s the personal
touch!
About the actual flight. . . it’s good, really good from beginning
to end. If you’re hungry, you can eat wonderful
food “on the house” too. If you’re tired,
the comfortable seats practically lull you to sleep.
Everything and I mean everything reflects
8.0.A.C.’s 30-year-old tradition of Speedbird
service and Speedbird experience.
GREAT BRITAIN • USA • CANADA • MIDDLE EAST • WEST AFRICA
EAST AFRICA • SOUTH AFRICA • PAKISTAN • INDIA • CEYLON • AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND • FAR EAST • JAPAN
P.O.A.C. TAKES GOOD CARE OF YOU
FLY BOA-C
Al/AU
Information & Bookings : Qantas Empire Airways, Sydney, Melbourne,
Brisbane, Townsville, Cairns, Darwin {General Agents in Australia),
or from Booking Agents in all cities.
BRITISH OVERSEAS AIRWAYS CORPORATION WITH QANTAS EMPIRE
AIRWAYS, TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD. & SOUTH AFRICAN AIRWAYS
\
for SUMMER TOURING
it
Jl
0T20.16-49
m
HPPW
airntfe
/00% d#sfra//a/f ... 66a/nfi/bns cfitfe ftw#
A PRODUCT OF THE OLYMPIC TYRE 6- RUBBER CO. LTD.
SMOKE-OH!
PIMMS No. I CUP
The Drink
for wise men
“Plan to be the loveliest bride of
the year.”— Woman’s paper.
Groom yourself to the best
advantage.
4* 4* 4*
“A woman who alleged that she
had been attacked by a taxi-driver
said in court a ‘man from the spirit
world named Charlie’ frequently
gave her messages.”— Sydney “Sun."
Told her when the black-
market Scotch would be “on.”
4* 4* 4*
“Prosecutions for rabbits.”
— “S. M. Herald” heading.
There’ll be some fur flying
when the little pests appear in
court.
4* 4 4
“Mystery of ten years solved.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph."
What! Don’t say some dis-
gruntled brewery employee has
revealed where the bottled beer’s
been going to I
“Scholar’s jo.b as postman.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
A man of letters, eh?
4* 4* 4*
“Stewed prunes have a surprise
flavor if cooked in sweetened pine-
apple juice.” — Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
And even more thrillingly so,
dears, when cooked in un-
sweetened creosote,
4* 4* 4*
“The Joint Coal Board, by finding
a hospital bed for an injured miner,
settled a strike at Hebburn (N.S.W.)
colliery.”
But he put his mates in a
hole.
4* 4*. 4
Sydney suburbia’s lighting is
provided by alternating current.
i^c
“A man who began life 40 years
ago as a telegraph messenger in Mel-
bourne has been appointed Director-
General of Posts and Telegraphs.”
That stamps him as a live-
wire.
“There is no emotional difference
between blondes and brunettes.”
—Film magazine.
Both can put on a colorful
show.
The Colossus.
“Prime Minister Chifley thinks
India’s Prime Minister Pandit Nehru
is one of the six ablest men in the
world.”
Great men in Europe and “The
States"
Will soon complain that
Chifley’s choice
Is wrong because it overrates
The mental powers of India’s
"voice.”
And local scribes may well
detect
A slight to this great land of
ours
When Chif. omitted to select
Some great Australian for his
powers.
But anyone inclined to fret
Some consolation may derive,
For one amongst his Cabinet
Is clearly all the other five.
D.H.E.
Modern Method.
“Many British manufacturers, by
reaching quantity output, foolishly
imagine they have achieved mass
production.”— U.S. industrialist.
A queer old English guy named
Thomas Gray
Once wrote an elegy, and, it
appears,
He labored in the hard old-
fashioned way
Upon it for. the space of seven
years. '
Say, if we wanted such a poem
made
We’d hire a team of literary
linnets
Who, by collective effort’s
speedy aid,
Would do the job in less than
seven minutes.
Yes, Sir !
BRIAN BUREAU.
Very Easily Surprised.
“A Note to Moscow from Marshal
Tito '‘expresses surprise’ that Yugo-
slavia was not invited to a recent
econ 9 mic conference held in the
Russian capital between the Soviet
and its Eastern European satellite
States.”
“It was a complete surprise to
me,” said Ben, the Bathurst
Burr, to a Cabinet colleague,
“I hadn’t read it in the news-
papers, of course—l heard a
couple of chaps at the Trades
Hall quoting it—that since, with
our complete approval, the
Arbitration Court brought in
“Well, don’t just stand there —introduce me!”
the 40-hour week, produc-
tion in every field of industry
has fallen off. I can’t for the
life of me understand it. Why,
even the veriest fool in
economics knows —I myself see
it quite clearly—that if a man
has four hours a week less at his
work-bench it stands to reason he
simply must produce as much
as, if not more than, he did be-
fore, That is of course taking the
purely mathematical side of it
into consideration as well as the
psychological. I . had it all
worked out in theory—and, after
all, aren’t theories all that the
Labor party is concerned with?
“If in practice it has trans-
pired that production has actu-
ally fallen —and, mind, I don’t
admit it, for we have only the
statistician’s word for it —all I
can say is that it is most surpris-
ing. Unless it has been deliber-
ately worked by the employers
so as to discredit our party’s
yoomanitarian principles, in
which case it wouldn’t surprise
me.”
“Vastly surprising!” was the
astonished comment of Mr. O.
Koffupp, a taxpayer, when
apprised of the new tax-cuts
approved by Caucus. “I natur-
ally thought that, this being elec-
tion year, the Treasurer would
have stoutly refused to yield to
the temptation to make a good
fellow of himself by handing
some of our own money back.
Not only that, I fully expected,
knowing the uncompromising
attitude of his party in refusing
in any shape or form to influ-
ence the electorate, that he
would have announced the im-
position of heavier taxes a few
months before going to the polls.
That would have been com-
patible with that same fearless-
ness which has characterised his
bringing to heel of the Com-
munist wreckers on the coal-
fields and the waterfront who
had sought to pit their puny
strength against his, I can only
say, regarding the tax-cuts, that
the announcement, especially
just before the numbers go up,
came as a bolt out of the blue! ”
“If I get any more shocks like
this,” said the Red Fiihrer to
“Molly,” “I’ll have to send one
of my doubles down to a
Crimean health resort for some
heart treatment, Fancy that
Western imperialist plutocratic
warmonger America not believ-
ing my honesty of purpose in
launching my latest peace offen-
sive ! Why, our controlled
press and radio have been de-
monstrating my deep sincerity in
this matter for months past by
pouring out an unceasing stream
of invective against the West!
On the question of disarma-
ment we said, with perfect
frankness, that after our demand
that America destroy her entire
stockpile of atom-bombs and dis-
mantle all plants for making
them we would agree to disarm
with only one unimportant
proviso that \vc wouldn’t allow
international commission in-
. j . TT oc t> *r „ 7 _ j
side the U.S.S.R. to see if we had
disarmed, as that would const!-
tute a breach of our sacred
sovereign rights as a great
nation. Wasn’t that logical
enough?
“Look how we showed our
good faith,” went on Joe, quite
hurt, “regarding our clinging to
the principles of the Atlantic
Charter by giving permanent
protection against some possible
aggressor from, say. South
America or Central Africa to
the -three Baltic States we in-
corporated in the Union!
Regard the freedom of worship
and expression which is
guaranteed in all countries be-
hind the Iron Curtain! Look
how well we safeguard the
sacred principle of Human
Rights by lifting from the fifteen
million we have in our slave-
labor camps the intolerable
burden of deciding what they
will do for a living. Yet
with all this crystal - clear
evidence of our good faith,
honesty of purpose and peaceful
intents before him, the brutal,
inhuman Truman, stooge of the
Wall-street warmongers, has the
unmitigated hide to cast doubts
on the integrity of my latest
move in the Cold War. I am too
surprised for words!”
When reminded tartly by one
of his. constituents that he, the
Minister for External Affairs,
spent over three-quarters of his
time in other countries. Dr.
Evatt raised his eyebrows so
high they disappeared into his
hair.
“Well, you don’t say!” he
exclaimed in a strong Russian-
American - Ecuadorian accent.
“I would never have believed it!
As self-appointed champion of
the small nations and of one
particular big nation that is said
to cover a sixth of the globe’s
land space I have been aware
that I devoted a little of my time
to furthering their interests—but,
three-quarters! Well, well!
What do you know! I’ve only
had one bigger surprise today—
I haven’t been summoned to
appear before the committee of
the Waterside Workers’ Federa-
tion to find out what foreign
policy I’ve got to pursue.”
BO.
Taking a Back Seat.
“It is time for men to agitate fof
equality with women.”
—Sydney “Sun."
Man’s leadership was over-
thrown
When women, not to be out-
done,
Took over from him one by one
Fields of endeavor once his own.
And now at last, it seems to me.
That, growing softer with the
years,
The male has ample cause for
fears
Of threatened inequality.
For if mankind that now be-
decks
Itself would see just what it
lacks,
It merely needs a girl in slacks
To show which is the sterner
sex*
BERT.


solicitously signalling. The Italian’s fool-
ishness was rewarded with the rapid dis-
patch of everything Stuart carried in her
tubes. The torpedoes leapt roaring over
her low waist and splashed into the sea;
and a few seconds later expended their
energy and purpose low down against
the hitherto-undamaged Italian’s hull.
The vengeful gnat slammed a few
close-range punches at Zara before slink-
ing round her stern after her other
victim. She found her 1500 yards away,
burning, listed and stopped. Waller
wasted no time, and opened with his
4.75. He was happily busy at this when
another cruiser bore out of the night
upon him, with obvious intent. As if
this weren’t enough, a sudden blaze from
the burning cruiser illumined an enemy
destroyer at full speed 150 yards away.
The muted whine of Stuart’s engine-
room fans rose to a hungry roar. She
kicked round under the thrust of her
spinning screws and hard-over rudder,
and with all guns bearing raked the
enemy destroyer from stem to stern as
she passed. One salvo burst under “A”
gun, another collapsed the bridge like a
pack of cards and a third caught her
wardroom aft. The Italian staggered on
into the night, to be met by a torpedo
from Havock that almost lifted her from
the water.
Stuart’s captured Italian Bredas had
also let fly, but, aimed high, they hosed
their colored tracer into the sky. This
saved their lives, for the approaching
cruiser mistook her for a friendly com-
batant and let her pass. Waller did
nothing to disillusion her, and trod warily
off into the night like a cat on wet grass.
She found her earlier torpedo victim,
but a few salvos produced no response,
and Waller, in his own words, “con-
sidered her good enough to leave till
morning.” She had lost Havock, and
feeling rather alone, and in accordance
with Cunningham’s signal to ships not
engaged in sinking the enemy to retire
to the n.e—“l have no friends except
those steering 045 degrees”—Waller and
his crew retired in that direction
to the cover of the Battle Fleet. On
the way she met, fired on and left burn-
ing yet another cruiser.
Later , that night the 14th and 2nd
Flotillas, which had been dispatched early
in the night to contact the enemy’s main
force, but had lost them, came upon and
sank Zara, and torpedoed Pola, the un-
witting cause of the night’s affair, to the
bottom.
All destroyer flotillas then re-formed
and rejoined, the Battle Fleet. They
were sighted from the flagship’s bridge
as dawn was breaking, after the night’s
hell-brew, steaming (all 12 of them, to
the admiral’s amazed relief) in the words
of the Admiralty report, “in two divi-
sions with the slightly self-conscious pre-
cision of a peace-time review. 5 ’
Epilogue
As a result of questioning prisoners, it
was found that the first intimation the
Italians received that they were in action
was the arrival of Warspite’s messengers.
In the resulting panic nearly half of one
ship’s company jumped overboard.
A yeoman of signals, according to his
own story, was asleep in his hammock.
Rudely awakened, he made the sign of
the Cross, invoked all the saints he
knew, and jumped overboard. Another
man made the upper-deck when the ship
was heeling badly, seized two lifebelts,
cried “Mama Mia! I cannot swim!”
and followed him.
Stuart’s last few months in the Medi-
terranean were by no means restful. She
bombarded again along the M.E. coast,
fought her way through all a triumph-
antly savage enemy could hurl against
her in the Greece and Crete evacuations
—and never lost a man —and finished up
on the ferry-run to Tobruk. But long,
hard steaming with no adequate refit had
racked her cruelly, and at July’s end she
was ordered home. She made the trip
back on one engine. In the Med. Stuart
had steamed over 100,000 miles, taken
part in two full-scale battles, four bom-
bardments, nine attacks against definite
submarines (during which 334 depth-
charges were dropped), 65 air attacks and
five campaigns—Western Desert, Greece,
Crete, Syria and relief of Tobruk. Not
a bad tally for a “string-and-wire” con-
temptible.
Refitted, a mere shell with most of her
guns out and magazines emptied, she
loaded stores and troops on fast ferries
to New Guinea. ‘
In February, 1947, dirty tarpaulins
hiding the holes where her upper-deck
fittings had been, stripped and salt-
streaked and the fire gone from her vitals,
the spunky old ship was taken away to
be broken up. But the end was purely
physical. The old ship’s spirit lives on.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
New Guinea Copra
New Guinea copra is in the boom,
giving planters their brightest days
for 25 years. Record prices, created by
a world-wide shortage of fats and vege-
table oils, have given the industry not
only a badly-needed post-war start, but
also the possibility of a decade of pros-
perity and expansion. The clouds on
the horizon which New Guinea shares
with other copra-producing countries are
fears of overproduction (already the
Philippines, the world’s biggest producer,
are exporting 700,000 tons a year); the
threat from whale- and other natural
oils and from substitutes ; and the chance
that the world-market may again be
“cornered.” In addition, the Territorian
producer has several knotty problems of
his own. These are, mainly, labor ques-
tion, difficulty in obtaining essential
materials, high and rising costs all
round and the Government’s marketing
“policy.”
Coconut plantations have always
dominated New Guinea agriculture,
and their labor-supply has always
been a headache. Though the Germans,
in their day, occasionally used forced
labor, they relied in the main on an
indenture system, which, much modified
and rigidly controlled, was continued
under the Australian Mandate. Native
“boys,” signed on for two- or three-year
periods, provided the bulk of the Terri-
tory’s plantation hands until 1942. Even
this force, though its numbers at times
touched 40,000, wasn’t always sufficient.
Today, the position is much worse. The
slashing of the period of service to 12
months has taken away most of the value
of the indenture system, and free labor,
when it can be hired, is unreliable.
. Shortages, particularly of such essen-
tials as building materials, machinery,
drier-wire, sacks and certain classes of
trade-goods, have seriously hampered
rehabilitation, and no improvement can
be expected for some time. Another
scarcity is shipping. The Government-
controlled inter-island service, although
still leaving a good deal to be desired, has
improved a little recently. But the over-
sea position is bad —only two vessels
maintain any kind of schedule to Terri-
torian ports—and it will probably get
worse before it gets better.
Costs, also, are beginning to worry
producers. Everything except native
goods must be imported, and to the
already high initial price of goods must
be added the expense of getting them to
New Guinea. Compared with pre-
war years, tools have more than
doubled in price; other items, including
rice and flour, have trebled or even
quadrupled. Copra-bags have leapt from
a shilling each in 1938 to 6s. each today.
Wages have increased three- or fourfold
over pre-war rates. An indentured native,
then, was paid only a few shillings a
month, though everything, including
tobacco and medical attention, was
found. Now his wages are trebled-r-
-usually £1 a month—and the cost of his
rations has increased correspondingly.
Free labor, if it can be got to work so
long, usually receives £4 a month.
The marketing set-up probably gives rise
to more dissatisfaction among planters
than any other one cause. Briefly, the
Commonwealth Government, in the
guise of a Production Control Board,
compulsorily acquires the whole of the
New Guinea copra output at its own
price. Territorian copra sells in Sydney
at approximately £6O a ton, but the pro-
ducer gets only about £4O, £2O being
deducted for “expenses.” In addition to
stiff-enough handling and freight charges,
these include an £8 55.-a-ton levy for a
highly mysterious “stabilisation fund,”
about which nobody knows anything,
since no public statement has ever
been made. In contrast, Pacific
islands further east have been re-
ceiving £5O-£7O a ton for their copra,
and m one case—Fiji—the British Minis-
try of Food has offered a nine-year con-
tract at an average price of £54 (Aust.)
No such long-term guarantee protects
the New Guinea producer. He has all
the disadvantages, and none of the
benefits, of “control.”
The first and most immediate need of
Territorian industry today is help in get-
ting back on its feet. That the arduous
job of rehabilitating the war-spoiled and
heavily overgrown plantations isn’t * yet
complete is shown by the present annual
export figure of around 40,000 tons,
compared with 1938 shipments of 74,000
tons. Effective assistance could be given
by allowing the copra to be sold freely
on the world market, by making essential
materials more readily available, and by
a temporary restoration of the pre-war
indenture system. The industry, as it
stands, will have to be set up firmly
before any long-term plans for its future
are put into effect.
Such plans will depend on a solution
of the labor problem—no easy matter,
since even before the war New Guinea’s
labor sources were beginning to dry up,
and sparsely populated neighbors like
Papua and the Solomons can scarcely
find enough for their own needs. Large-
scale importation of Asiatics is out of
the question. Yet expansion is essential,
for many of the plantations are ageing,
half the Territory’s present acreage hav-
ing been planted by the Germans before
1919. The answer may lie in increased
mechanisation. Copra-making itself—
the drying of the flesh of the mature
nut —is a simple and unmechanical pro-
cess, but such jobs a§ plantation-cleaning,
now performed by “lines” of boys
languidly wielding hoop-iron knives,
could be done by machines with one or
two attendants.
This problem of labor, more than any
other, will have to be solved if New
Guinea s all-important coconut-industry
is not to fall eventually into native hands,
as copra-production has already largely
done in the Eastern Pacific islands.—
K. A. S. (N.G.),
Rodents
What precautions are taken by the
authorities for the control of that ever-
increasing menace the rat?
Dealing in run-down mixed busi-
nesses I see the inner runs of many
shops that handle food. Most of
these are overrun by rats and mice,
the size and quantity of which
would scare any self-respecting cat. A
bad case was a small suburban mixed
business in Newcastle. The pests had
overrun the place, and just before our
occupancy some indiscriminate attempt
had been made to poison them, which
resulted in a horrible stench but no
apparent diminishing of their numbers.
The backyard was cratered with pits
which had been dug and into which
rotten potatoes, fruit and vegetables had
been dumped.
After we’d covered these breeding-
grounds and cleaned up the shop the
rats became hungry enough to touch the
traps we set. Thirty-four were caught be-
fore any appreciable thinning-out was
noticed. With their usual feeding-grounds
gone they turned to the stock—breakfast
cereals, ice-cream cones and general
packet goods, being the easiest targets,
suffered heavily. After three months’
hard work we cleaned the place up and
made it fit for business.
Other shops have been found in similar
condition with rats and pests breeding
prolifically. Surely some systematic
check should be made by the health
authorities to ensure that centres handling
food for public consumption are free
from such disgusting and dangerous
menaces.— Ebrius (N.S.W.).
Defence Plans
References to the Brisbane Line and
“Ek Dum’s” statement (B. 15/12/’4B)
that Australia cannot at the moment find
more than a handful of troops to defend
the Sydney-Illawarra area prompt, the
following remarks.
Military tactics are a very ancient
science, and although their application has
been changed from time to time with the
advent of new weapons the basic prin-
ciples remain the same. A commander,
ordered to prepare plans for defence of
any ; area, be he a corporal in charge of a
section or a field-marshal in charge of all
the forces of his country, must follow
tried and proved rules in relation
to his planning! In preparing a de-
fensive scheme the first rule is that the
commander murt decide what is * the
“essential ground.” That is ground which
the attacking force must capture and
dominate before it can claim to have over-
run the defenders, and, conversely, ground
which the defenders must not lose to the
enemy.
Having decided what is the essential
ground the commander then has to de-
cide how he can best deny that ground to
the enemy with the force of men
and arms available to him. The attacker,
whose plans for the attack have been
based on an endeavor to secure the same
“ Juliet, Juliet —let me take you away from all this!"
piece of ground, makes his attack, and
the battle or battles becomes a trial of
strength, efficiency and arms.
In small-scale open-field warfare the
essential ground is more often than not
a commanding height from which fire can
be directed at the enemy’s positions and
lines of communication. However, that is
not a fixed rule. The essential ground
could also be a bridge or port which the
enemy must capture in order freely to
transport additional men and material.
The point is that in preparation of any
defence scheme the first important de-
cision is in relation to the essential
ground.
The next step is the consideration of
the forces available to the defender. If
the defender has ample forces he may
decide to have his forward-defended
localities as far as possible in front of
his essential ground, thus giving himself
freedom for manoeuvre and preparation
of counter-attacks. If his forces are
scanty he will have to place them in fairly
close relationship to the essential ground
with a view to a last-ditch type of defence
—always a desperate sort of gamble.
Given the task of defending Australia
the principle remained the same. The
General Staff decided that the essential
ground was the Sydney-Newcastle-
Illawarra area, which contains nearly all
the country’s heavy industry where
essential war material and munitions are
made. It was reasoned that as long as we
held this area the fight could still go on
as we would have arms and a port for the
entry' of U.S.’ assistance. Loss of this
area would mean complete defeat.
The broad planning, when invasion
seemed most imminent, was the concen-
tration of the • strongest forces near this
area, with isolated pockets of troops
throughout the north to deny the enemy
any useful ports or other points as long
as possible and to harrass the enemy
where they could. There was a fairly
strong force located near Brisbane to
deny that port and facilities to the last,
as it would be a valuable base for the
enemy. This planning was based upon
the best use of the relatively small force
of efficient troops available. In effect the
plan meant the giving-up to the enemy of
all but the essential ground until the
forces could be enlarged with U.S. assist-
ance, and fully equipped for a counter-
attack to drive the enemy from Aus-
tralia.
The foregoing is based not upon con-
jecture, but upon a lecture by a senior
officer of the General Staff to officers of
the Seventh Division, stationed at Cabool-
tur.e, near Brisbane, just before the start
of the drive through the Islands. The
victory of the Coral Sea had broken up
the immediate threat to Australia.
The fact remains that Australia’s


essential ground is still the same area of
heavy industry, and the rich north will
still be a sort of no-man’s-land until the
strength of our forces is sufficient to
allow for the establishment of strong
points there after providing for the
security of the essential ground.—C. R.
(N.S.W.).
Medals and Decorations
In our N.Q. town we have one D.S.C.,
three D.S.Os., more than our fair issue
of D.F.Cs., M.Ms., M.I.Ds. and minor
war decorations, which give a colorful
splash on Anzac Day, and are duly noted
for hero-worship by the rising genera-
tion. But what of civilian honors? Fol-
lowing Labor’s refusal to recommend a
worthy Queenslander for a humble
0.8. E. recently, I checked over the
honors bestowed on other members of
the community for contributions to know-
ledge and research which have placed
them in world rank.
One mddical man can boast no fewer
than seven medals for research into
radiology, a local salesman is to be recog-
nised by a Royal Society for research into
Queensland history, one dentist has Ameri-
can honors.' A Queensland geologist was
recently awarded a gold medal by the
South African Government for his con-
tribution to metalliferous research, and
a surveyor working for the same company
is acknowledged the world’s expert on his
particular branch of underground survey.
Yet these people receive no recognition
from the “Labor” Government, which,
whilst transforming a broken-down poli-
tician into the King’s representative,
ignores the efforts of those who volun-
tarily spend a major part of their lives
in the silent service of their fellow-men.
If the civilian recognition of outstand-
ing personalities were adopted, and those
who had earned either Commonwealth or
world recognition suitably publicised, our
youngsters would have a basis for real
hero-worship.— Video (Q.).
Coroner’s Fees
It is ironical that when the new witness-
fees (B. 17/11 / ’4B) operate in N.S.W.
coroner’s courts the witness who stays a
full day will receive more than the
coroner who conducts the inquest.
Should the witness be there for two days
he will receive £2 10s., while his Majesty’s
coroner, whp does ail the work, including
typing his own depositiohs, will be paid
£l.
That fee, of course, was fixed in the
dark ages when a Clerk of Petty Sessions
received about £134 a year, but although
the latter’s salary has gone up consider-
ably the coroner’s fee has never increased,
mainly because the Government does not
regard it as a salary, but as an
honorarium.
It certainly is time that witnesses were
paid a little more, but surely the coroner,
one of the oldest offices under the Crown,
should receive a more reasonable recom-
pense for his service. Mugwump
(N.S.W.).
Catch Them Young
It is becoming alarmingly evident that
in this country all that which is, in the
true literary sense, abjectly wretched is
being snapped up and eagerly devoured
by a sadly-misguided, rubbish-assimilating
public. What we demand we receive, and
what we read sets the standard of litera-
ture for our own generation, and per-
haps for many generations to come.
Lovers of good literature argue, when
confronted with this problem, that Aus-
tralia is only a young country which has
not yet had time for a background of
solid literature to develop; that that will
come with the maturity of our people.
True, to a degree, but that happy state
will perhaps never be achieved if con-
tinually hampered by the growth of social
ignorance—what actually amounts to
lustful illiteracy, springing from the seeds
sown by some present-day publications.
If the matter is considered it will be
realised that a solution is not beyond the
grasp of an average intelligence. As is
usual with all problems of mankind the
answer rests with the children in the
classroom. If we deprive them of the
mass of deadly nonsense on which they
spend their weekly “pocket-money,” and
if we foster in our schools a healthy
taste for good writing, then our ultimate
objective—namely, a community appre-
ciative of good literature —will not be far
over the horizon. — Henry Johns (Vic.).
The Wheat Trick
For the umpteenth time during
“Labor’s” period of “government” the
wheatgrowers have been sold. Cables
from Washington announce that Mr.
McCarthy, of the Commerce Department,
representing the Australian Wheat In-
dustry at the International Wheat Agree-
ment conference, moved that the price of
wheat under the agreement be brought
down to 10s. a bushel maximum, with a
minimum of ss. 6d. This in spite of the
fact that the Government, two days pre-
viously, announced that a contract had
been signed with the United Kingdom
and India in the vicinity of 14s, per
"I can't get him out of the house since he took up gardening ."
bushel, subject to any international agree-
ment. Thanks to Mr. McCarthy and his
“Labor” bosses, this means an immediate
loss of at least 4s. per bushel to Aus-
tralian growers.
An equally obnoxious feature is the
agreeing to a minimum price of ss. 6d.
when the inquiry into the cost of pro-
duction conducted by the Commerce De-
partment, with Mr. Justice Simpson as
chairman, determined that the Australian
cost of production is at present 6s. Bd.
per bushel.
Only good feature of the whole miser-
able business is the fact that Mr. Chifley,
Mr. Pollard and the rest of the team have
to face the country this year, and the
thimble and pea are a bit out of date in
the bush these days.— Dick Turpin
(N.S.W.).
Decentralisation?
The boneheads who do our planning
must be worried about the effects of de-
centralisation. If it were intended to draw
off some of our cities’ seething millions
the plan seems to have missed fire. New
industries in country towns offer attrac-
tive wages, good hours, music-while-you-
work and all the rest of it, and the farmer
is still holding the bag.
At a Benalla Show Society meeting a
Glenrowan farmer complained that a
Wangaratta textile firm is instituting a
bus service running through the country-
side daily to take labor t 6 and from the
factory, and farm labor is now practically
unobtainable in his district. The Show
Society shook its head, but said it could
do nothing about it. It appears that full
farm mechanisation must be the solution,
with wages and conditions attractive
enough to draw labor away from the
cities and towns. From the farmers’ point
of view the little country town is now a
miniature Sydney. Riverina Rita
(N.S.W.).
Land-sales Control
The sale of an £B5O home for £2OOO as
witnessed by “C.8.M.” (B. 12/l/’49) is
merely the age-old law of supply and
demand in action.
Controls can be introduced, theories
advanced, or made, but little good
will be done while the demand exceeds
the supply by so great a margin. It’s
just a case of human nature. Although
prices are reaching extravagant figures
the people concerned would in all proba-
bility be very hostile if any attempt was
made to nullify their purchase.
The pegged-price system was just a
joke. It was almost impossible to buy
land at the figure quoted by the Valuer-
General ; a substantial cash settlement,
under the lap, was necessary before the
owner would consider selling. Such were
the times, however, that this method of
operating became a recognised feature of
all. land sales, and the man who didn’t
ask for the extra was considered a mug.
The end of pegged prices on land
brought these transactions out into the
light and ensured the purchaser of a
receipt for the full amount paid.
It is all very well for the man comfort-
ably housed to cry out “Don’t buy at
these inflated prices, hang off and prices
must come down,” To the desperate,
money is mere money; a home is
security.— Ebrius (N.S.W.).
Price-control
The present scheme of price-control on
houses bristles with injustice. I own an
old and well-built brick home which has
just been revalued by the Valuer-General’s
Department. It contains 22 squares, and
the value placed on it, including a 90ft.
brick fence in front and a 6ft. paling
fence plus a galvanised-iron work-shed, is
£B7O, or approximately £39 10s. per
square.
Next-door is a newly-built fibro with a
tiled roof containing about half the
number of squares and is valued at
£1350, or better than £lOO per square.
, Even at £lOO per square, considering
present brick building costs, my cottage
would be a bargain. If I were forced
to sell because of health or other reasons
and had to buy in another district I
would have to pay somewhere in the
vicinity of £4OOO for similar accommoda-
tion.
Why should the owner of an existing
building be so heavily penalised com-
pared with the owner of a newly-built
place? It’s the surest way of forcing
owners to sell on the blackmarket. —
Simple Simon (N.S.W.).
No/ Guinea
In the principal centres of New
Guinea, Port More, ■y, Rabaul and Lae,
there are seven while public servants to
every ordinary white member of the com-
munity, and the net result of much of
their activities is the gradual ruin of
formerly-free settlers. A broad state-
ment, perhaps, but unfortunately it is
only too true. Almost every movement
is subject to supervision, and the word
“control” is seen or heard at every
corner.
Twenty years ago there was a constant
conflict in Rabaul between settlers and
public servants, and it is very much
intensified now. Lae, before the war,
was a small place with a couple of stores,
a hotel and an aerodrome. Today it is
a straggling place with about 1000 in-
habitants. The town-planners are busy—
they have been “busy” for some years
shuffling plans of a Lae that is to surpass
all expectations. These plans show miles
of streets, possibly to accommodate
houses for more public servants —though
it is common knowledge that when the
gold is finished so is the usefulness of
Lae.
Lewis Lett, an authority on Papua,
who was himself a public servant during
the regime of Sir Hubert Murray, wrote
in an article in the “Journal of the Royal
Australian Historical Society” (Vol. 34,
part 3, 1948):
Under Sir Hubert and his successor the
progress of Papua had .been contrived at a
total cost to Australia of £42,500 a year.
Its rapid degeneration since February, 1942,
is costing us between two and three million
pounds a year in cash, and an indeterminate
amount through loss of trade, and must
continue to cost as much, or more, so long
as the present chaos is permitted to con-
tinue. Natives and European residents alike
are unsettled, frustrated and bewildered.
Papua suffers from ideology without
policy, and has been made no more than a
pawn in the game whose prize is political
power.
Lett was writing only about the state
of affairs in Papua, which is only a
portion of the 1 erritory, so it can be
imagined what the rest of the country is
costing the Australian taxpayers.
There are still in Rabaul 260 Japanese
war criminals and another lot of pre-war
Japanese civilians. They are treated as
guests, entertained at two picture shows
a week, and given Red Cross parcels.
The men guarding them are young Aus-
tralian soldiers who never fought against
the' Japs. It is said that these Japanese
are to be sent to Manus, where, probably,
they will have an even better time.
It is a common prediction in N.G. that,
under the present regime, the place will
be completely ruined in five years.—
J. A. M. (N.S.W.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 5
Across.
I—Easy catch for the portraitist’s
subject. (6)
3—Birds that seem to doubt the
abilities of the Ram. (8)
7—Fifty take you when I am upset
by no ewe that is crafty in a
radiant fashion. (10)
9 —Boy in lace. (4)
12— That woman’s inveterate com*,
poser. (6)
13— It is noted for two gentlemen
who get an over. (6)
15— These Indians are the people
whose emblem is three balls. (7)
16— Millinery to see the disorderly
cutter. (7)
18— Famous resort 20 miles south-
east of Liege. (3)
19— All the others had a meal in
order to enunciate a principle
again. (7)
20— This Australian athlete suggests
an innovation that would cer-
tainly stimulate tram-travelling.
21— Crazy shillings are prohibited by
these wanderers. (6)
23—Pertaining to a mountain in the
Holy Lands. (6)
25 A tear for the landlord. (4)
26 Scared people often have this
poultry. (10)
27 : -Coppers finish off the ceremony
for a mineral with fem-like
markings on it. (8)
28— This food suggests one way of
making pi. (6)
(cryptic type.l
(Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1 — A very henpecked husband or a
very browbeaten wife is not a
working member of the business.
(6, 7)
2 These cutters split the atom birds.
(9)
4 They make bores break the laws.
(4)
5 American soldier turns up at the
card game in the ice-house. (5)
6'—Weapons snub girls. (9)
B—Marine8 —Marine suds, when well stirred,
make it unnecessary for parents
to employ 1 across. (10)
10— Expert skill of 100 primitive ves-
sels that provide another vessel
with a crew. (13)
11 — The missus is a superior Rugby
player. (6, 4)
14 —This babe’s most humbly dressed.
(9)
17 —Give that woman a spotless rela-
tive of a strong man. (9)
22 —A fellow taking on grand opera.
(5)
24—It requires a nut run wild, (4)
SOLUTION TO CROSSWORD No. 4.


}
r
m
m
m
>!V
1
mm
'? 7 ■
:
va
:
’ -A-x
,
&
; a
mm
*
/
*
■
:
~~1
Ships Wireless Station
The A.W.A. monogram on any instrument is a
mark of quality and scientific craftsmanship. It is
the symbol of the Radio Age, representing the
knowledge gained from research and engineering
over more than 35 years.
Behind all A.W.A. products and services are the
A.W.A. laboratories, which have advanced radio in
the home, on the highways, at sea, and in the air.
As one of Australia’s key industrial organisations,
A.W.A. recognises the value of scientific research
and its important role in peace and security.
' . ■ , v ” /* ■ '' I
DESIGNERS AND
MANUFACTURERS OF
TRANSMITTERS
Broadcasting Transmitting Stations
Broadcast Studio Apparatus
Wireless Telegraph and Telephone Stations
AERONAUTICAL RADIO EQUIPMENT
Navigation Beacons
Marker Beacons
Aeradio Communication Systems
Aircraft Communication Systems
MARINE WIRELESS
Telegraph and Telephone Equipment
Direction Finders
9 Music Amplifying Equipment
Automatic S.O.S. Transmitters
EchosoUnders
RADIOLA BROADCAST RECEIVERS
SOUND AMPLIFYING SYSTEMS *
m
IPS
Assembling Loudspeakers at A.W.A. Works.
y|
m
:
H|
■ .-^3
■/■■■a
? I I
■ft i 1
Frequency Modulation Transmitter and Remote
Control in communication with F.M. equipped car
□ □
□ QQQ
IMMI
i
n
tr m ~
■
m
mm
’ U '
: ::
: ••
2KJF Broadcast Transmitter ,
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (Australasia) LTD.
Australia’s National Wireless Organisation
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Also at WELLINGTON, N.Z., and AUSTRALIA HOUSE, LONDON
