

CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN!
A Have you friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then, is news that must
interest you. Just imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
in the same wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the “WINE-FOR-
BRITAIN” scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their London Office, Seppelts
will arrange for your friends in the Homeland to be supplied with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. You’ll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts “Wine-For-Brltatn” scheme: Write to The House of Seppelt, Box 1422 H, G.P.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia,
A
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
SERVICE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/* VoL 70—No. 3636
Wednesday, October 19, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
A CCORDING to tradition, Bristol was
founded in the sixth century B.C. by
the British King Dyfnwal Moelmyd and
his sons, Brennus and Belinus. In Domes-
day Book it ranked next after London,
York and Winchester. In the twelfth
century the town was described as full of
Ships from every part of Europe which
ascended the tidal Avon to the very doors
of the merchants.
Its splendid geographical position, close
to the Atlantic but lying along the
sheltered coastline of the Bristol Channel,
has been the reason for its importance in
the history of Britain’s connections with
the Western Hemisphere. Here lived such
famous adventurers as John Cabot, first
to discover North America; William
Penn, colonizer and founder of Pennsyl-
vania and John and Charles Wesley, who
carried Methodism to the United States.
The city has many gems of history,
among which mention may be made of
Christmas Steps, the steep narrow cobbled
street down which in 1463 Prince Rupert,
the dashing Royalist cavalier, led his
troops when the city was besieged during
the Civil Wars.
But to the visitor for whom the future
holds some fascination, there is much of
interest to see and to study. Chief among
these is the famous Bristol University,
the fine Gothic tower of which is shown
here. It is 215 feet high, was-designed
by a Bristol Architect, Sir George H.
Oatley, and it contains a bell, “Great
George,” said to be the most musical
F flat bell in Europe. The main Univer-
sity buildings were opened in 1925 by
King George V and they owe their exist-
ence to the generosity of the Wills
family. It comprises faculties of Arts,
Theology, Science, Medicine, Engineering
and provides young recruits required at
all levels of industry. The architecture
of the University buildings is splendid
in conception and execution. Notable
points are the fan-vaulted entrance hall.,
the reception room with its minstrel
gallery and the magnificent stone tracery
of the council room.
Adjoining the University are the Art
Gallery and Museum, which suffered con-
siderable damage during the German air
raids of 1940-41. Bombs were dropped
on seventy-six occasions and there were
548 air raid warnings. The first large
scale attack was on November 24th, 1940,
a night on which public buildings were
(to quote the German radio) “wiped out.”
THE SPLENDID GOTHIC TOWER OF BRISTOL UNIVERSITY


m
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL--
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address ,
S.B. 149
AGE.
The Red Page
KIND WORDS.
Reviewers being more or less,
it is only natural that they should take
pleasure in a book of criticism which
happens to mention their own work-
kindly. It has a curiously softening
effect. It seems to argue not only good-
will but altogether unusual perspicacity
in the author. And Enid Moodie Heddle
in Australian Literature Now (Long-
mans) —though perhaps one could find
a happier adjective than “sprightly” for
the Red Page critiques—mentions the
present reviewer very kindly.
And then, if one can go on to find that
the writer’s opinions on literature concur,
on the whole, with one’s own, his or her
intelligence seems to be established
beyond all doubt. Those who agree with
us must be intelligent; and here we find
Miss Heddle saying almost the same
things about Judith Wright’s and David
Campbell’s poetry as were said on the
Red Page a week or two ago;
Single poems appearing in the “Bulletin”,
and in the 8.8. C. magazine the “Listener”
are enough to show that Campbell is express-
ing an Australian vision which in a strange,
dream-like fashion recalls' the timeless land
within time which all Australians hold some-
where hidden in memory. Of these younger
poets, David Campbell and Judith Wright
would seem to me to give us most perfectly
in their poetry the Australian vision I haye
been pursuing within myself and through
my reading since 1912.... They are the
answer to those who, with Kenneth Mac-
queen, the Australian watercolorist, ask
that “our art walk steadily and simply”
and be “by its very truth to its environ-
ment in which it was produced, distinguish-
able as to its origin.”
There are times, it is true, when Miss
Heddle does not appear quite so reliable ;
when, that is to say, her opinions differ
from one’s own. She hardly seems to
realise, for example, that * her require-
ments for a new life in the Australian
short story—technical brilliance and
sophisticated high spirits combined with
a simple approach—have already been
fulfilled, surely, by Cecil Mann and Brian
James in their different ways and may
also be observed in the contributions from
Roderick Finlayson, J. H. Melville and
Gloria Rawlinson in New Zealand which
have enriched various issues of Coast to
Coast. Again, though of course we must
claim Henry Handel Richardson’s
masterpiece as one of the high peaks of
our literature, one hesitates to accept it as
“essentially Australian and rooted in the
soil from which the writer sprang.” It
seems, rather, to be rooted in Dostoevsky.
And again, Miss Heddle does not do
justice to the adroit technique and spark-
ling originality of mind that are masked
by the surface glitter of Rosemary Dob-
son’s “Devil and Angel” poems.
While these points of disagreement are
being discussed one might mention, too,
a wish that Miss Heddle would refrain
from dropping the definite article and
using such journalistic constructions as
“Impetuous Christian Socialist Charles
Kingsley.” Also, it is advisable to spell
Robert D. Fitz Gerald’s name correctly.
But these points dwindle to nothing
among the merits of this intelligent and
disarming essay. From her opening re-
marks about our earliest novelists and
versifiers, when the “colonial environ-
ment” was thought a regrettable and in-
escapable “limitation,” to her praise at
the end of Nettie Palmer’s Fourteen
Years or William Hart-Smith’s Chris-
topher Columbus, one reads through
Australian Literature Now agreeing,
broadly, all the way.
Approaching our literature through the
books she read “up a peppertree” in her
childhood, Miss Heddle records that —
Such Is Life and My Brilliant Career not
then having come her way—“the Aus-
tralian character was fixed in print for us
by the stories of Henry . Lawson and
Steele Rudd and the poetry of Gordon
and ‘Banjo’ Paterson. We firmly be-
lieved that all Lawson’s stories were true
and all the characters of On Our Selec-
tion real people.” She refuses to feel
ashamed of the bush balladists and re-
gards their work as “folk poetry” in which
“rather than in the genteel Victorian
verses of our earlier lyric poets lay the
true seeds of Australian poetry.” She
describes The Pea Pickers as “bubbling
with humor....a wonderful Australian
portrait - gallery,” and she says of
Kangaroo :
It falls naturally into the Australian
tradition in, fiction, but, for all its sensitive
feeling into environmental values, still
remains a gift to us by a foreigner striving
to understand and express the Australian
scene. The difference is plain if one reads
Katharine Prichard on Western Australia,
Eleanor Dark and Kylie Tennant on New
South Wales and Eve Langley’s The Pea
Pickers alongside Lawrence.
Miss Heddle does not confine herself
to the standard Australian classics nor to
the novelists and poets of today who are
most frequently talked about. Dealing
with what she calls “Informative Prose”
—such books as My Crowded Solitude
and Flying Fox and Drifting Sand—
she writes interestingly about Rose
White’s No Roads Go By : “a book by a
completely inexperienced writer which,
because of its absolute truth to existence,
has a startlingly dramatic effect for the
reader.” And she goes overseas to bring
home to the Australian tradition such
writers as W. J. Turner;
Too many Australians know him only
as the poet who wrote “Romance” and
“Ecstasy,” over-anthologised poems. Blow
for Balloons (1935) is a high-spirited novel
in which there are not only some sensitive
pictures of Turner’s Australian bush holi-
days, but also several extremely amusing
chapters on schooldays at Scotch College
in which Turner pays tribute to masters
remembered from his boyhood What-
ever else he forgot he remembered the
“intense quivering sunshine” and the “un-
forgettable aural background” of the bush;
the “marvellous acrid smell of the camp-
fire” ; the taste of passionfruit “plucked
fresh from the vine and eaten in the dry
sparkling heat of an Australian sun.”
One could go on quoting in this spirit;
but a reviewer, alas, must not allow him-
self to be too much disarmed. And
it is ah unfortunate fact that Australian
Literature Now is not as good as, with
all its merits, it should be. It is a bit of
a hodge-podge. Miss Heddle starts off
with a clear theme in mind: she is going
to trace from Henry Kingsley to Judith
Wright the development of a distinctively
Australian literature: but the temptation
to stray from the track to discuss a
thousand books not distinctively Aus-
tralian and, indeed, not worth discussing
proves too much for her. Her book be-
comes a mere catalogue of everything,
good, bad and indifferent published in
recent years, and when at the end she
comes back to her original theme, as
exemplified in Judith WrighEs and David
Campbell’s poetry, she does so with a
start; as if suddenly, and far too late,
she had remembered what she meant to
write about. The 91-page booklet should
either have been expanded into a much
larger study of the whole stream of Aus-
tralian writing from her stated viewpoint
or else there should have been a more
discriminating selection of the books
discussed. And let Miss Heddle, if she
can, find that opinion “sprightly.”
Mr. Barrett's Parrots.
The great nature-books are written by
men such as Fabre, who would brood in
patient ecstasy above a spider for hours
on end —for weeks and months and years,
it seems —or Gilbert White, who would
tramp 20 miles to see a bird that had
arrived a day or two ahead of its spring
schedule.' They are books of direct
observation, and the final pleasure they
give the reader is not merely that of odd
facts but a sense of the mystery and
wonder of creation.
Charles Barrett in Parrots of A ustralasia
(N. H. Seward Pty., Ltd., Melbourne)
has a different purpose —that of the en-
cyclopaedist —and his book is correspond-
ingly different. It is not quite fair to
criticise him for not writing like Gilbert
White when he is not trying to ; yet be-
cause Mr. Barrett is a gemline naturalist
one can never help regretting it when he
becomes merely an industrious compiler
of reference-books ; and it is at any rate
fair to warn the reader that this is a book
of facts rather than of poetry, having
more of the atmosphere of the museum
than of the open country.
But when that has been said 1 , it re-
mains both surprising and pleasing how
readable a book Mr. Barrett has made
out of what is essentially a practical
catalogue. This is partly because Mr.
Barrett the encyclopaedist has read his
authorities —such early bird-men as
Gould, for instance —with a lively eye
for oddities that will interest the general
reader, but chiefly because Mr. Barrett
in his capacity as a is frequently
to be seen among his dead timber:
More fortunate than Gould, the present
writer has seen Budgerygahs [«c] not in
thousands, but in such vast numbers that
they seemed to darken the sky as they
came streaming in from all directions to >
their drinking-place—Nelly’s Waterhole,
more than one hundred . miles from the
Katherine River, in the Northern Territory.
Soon after sunrise large flocks of Galahs,
Budge'rygahs and other parrots were already
present at the waterhole, and thousands
were x arriving every minute. Budgerygahs
outnumbered all the other species; and it
was estimated that when the last flock
departed more than a million of these noisy
little birds had been lured from far and
near to the only drinking-place for many
miles around.... Beneath an undulating
living canopy—thirsty birds waiting im-
patiently for their turn —some twenty thou-
sand Budgerygahs would be drinking at
once, quickly and daintily: they did not
linger after quenching thirst, but rose
simultaneously, to fly swiftly away, screech-
ing in chorus, as were those wheeling
above the water, but eager to come down.
Parrots of Australasia, however, does
not need to be discussed in this way, as
if it were meant to be a work of litera-
ture. With a certain effort, it is possible
to read it straight through, lured by the
odd facts drawn from the authorities
and the observations taken fresh from
nature —a warning against wiping-out the
galah ; a paragraph on the celebrated
Cocky Bennett of Tom Ugly’s Point, near
Sydney, who, when over 100 years old,
naked and bald, would still scream gal-
lantly, “I’ll fly! I’ll fly! One more
feather and I’ll fly! ”; a fascinating
account of the rare Night Parrot, last
recorded in an unconfirmed report from
Westralia in 1937. But what Mr. Barrett
really sets out to do is to list the parrots
of Australia and New Zealand and tell
the reader something of their habits and
how to recognise them.
And from this point of view the book
is admirable ; indeed, to anybody who
wants to be able to tell one parrot from
another —which means, surely, every-
body who looks for more in the country-
side than the hoardings advertising soap
and tomato-sauce-- —it is indispensable.
Mr. Barrett’s descriptions are so clear and
so mercifully free from technical jargon
that nobody will need to shoot and dissect
the birds to find out which is -which,
and the book’s value both for reference
and as a handsome production is added
to by profuse illustrations, including
some of Neville W. Cayley’s in color.
Non Angeli Sed Rossetti.
Most poets spend a lifetime throwing
illusion over their commonplace or ugly
lives; and the more rare and exquisite
the illusion, the more eagerly does pos-
terity tear it away. Thus a poet who
married a lovely and wraithlike artists’
model, and came back from lecturing at
a Working Men’s College to find her
dead of poison, who buried his poems
with her, and seven years later had her
exhumed so that he might publish the
poems, might reasonably anticipate the
attentions of such as Evelyn Waugh in
his Rossetti, His Life and Works, and
Violet Hunt in her Wife of Rossetti.
The light tone of Waugh’s witty and
readable biography seems the main reason
why it should annoy Rossetti’s niece,
Helen Rossetti Angeli; but in her book,
Dante Gabriel Rossetti, His Friends and
Enemies (Hamilton), Mrs. Angeli reserves
most of her wrath for Miss Hunt, who
suggested in a footnote that on the night
his wife killed herself, Rossetti had not
gone to the Working Men’s College, but
to an assignation with some other woman,
because it was not his night to lecture
at the college.
Brought to book by the critic of “Time
and Tide,” Miss Hunt tried to laugh it
off. *
My Note, “No, it was not” [Rossetti’s
evening at the Working Men’s College] is
a mistake: notes nearly always are!
Again, Miss Hunt presented Lizzie
Rossetti as victim of an abortion pro-
cured by Rossetti, and fearful, at her
death, of another one; on the strength
of some letters which, says Mrs. Angeli,
refer to a joke of Swinburne’s made
some eight months after Lizzie’s death ;
unfounded except in raillery, but resented
sufficiently for Rossetti to protest to
Swinburne.
Again, there was supposed to have
been a message pinned to Lizzie’s night-
gown ; and Miss Hunt said it read “My
life is so miserable 1 wish no more of
it”—and again Mrs. Angeli pours scorn
upon the luckless Miss Hunt, showing
her, in the appendix, claiming to Watts-
Dunton's widow that “Madox Brown told
her mother and that her mother had
written these words in her diary” ; and
then claiming to Lady Rothenstein that
she had received her information from
William Rossetti, Mrs. Angeli’s father.
With the publication of Gaunt’s book
on the Pre-Raphaelites, Mrs. Angeli again
took up her pen, this time to protest
to the critic of the “Times” Literary
Supplement, who had written:
The tragedy is... .drug-addiction and
psychopathology—to which we may add
cadging Sponging of that sort was not
the worst form of the parasitic practices of
Rossetti.
Challenged to justify this vague attack,
seemingly supported by the critic’s private
information, the “Times” critic “declined
to amplify.”
Mrs. Angeli might well have suggested
that for biographers and critics who make
their money out of dead men’s reputa-
tions, the charge of “parasitic practices”
is a little ironical; and that the “psycho-
pathology which so many modern bio-
graphers diagnose in their sitters might
quite as well be the psychopathology of
the biographers themselves—how much
of Freud’s Leonardo da Vinci, the most
learned, the most ingenious and, for many
people, the most objectionable of such
biographical studies, is the psychopath-
ology of Leonardo, and how much is the
psychopathology of Freud?
ihe trouble with such books as this
of Mrs. Angeli’s is that they must repeat
the calumnies they deny, and at the same
time have little to put in their places.
Was Hall Caine’s version right, that
Lizzie Rossetti knew that her husband
had married her because he had said he
would, although before marrying he had
fallen in love with someone else? Was
the “someone else” his friend William
Morris’s beautiful wife, Jane? Mrs.
Angeli cannot tell us; the most she can
do is to present* Rossetti as an Italian
of more-than-English sensuality, but not
vicious ; as a drug-addict, but not deca-
dent ; as a recluse from fashionable
society, but not from his friends, with
whom he was capable of gaiety, clown-
ing, limericks and practical jokes.
It is worth while to remember that
Rossetti was one of the first exponents
of William Blake; and that, as poet and
artist, he had in his Italian manner some-
thing of the same simplicity, which says
what it thinks, and which acts what it
believes. Such people are made to be
twisted by the world’s irony and ham-
mered by the duplicity of its social forms.
The deliberate depravities of expert men-
of-the-worid escape notice ; the real affec-
tion Rossetti had for his wife, ‘his adora-
tion and idealisation of the love of men
and women, landed him with a suicide,
a melodramatic and farcical graveyard
scene, and a vile and catchpenny attack
on the morals of his poetry by the “foetid
Buchanan.”
The main force of Mrs. Angeli’s book
is in the correspondence printed f in the
appendix. The rest of the book devotes
separate chapters to some dozen of Ros-
setti’s friends, Ruskin, Swinburne, Morris,
Burne-Jones, Meredith, Whistler, Howell,
Browning, Scott, etc., to his family, his
spiritualism, his “health and decline,” etc.
They are more authoritative than read-
able ; and no doubt Mrs. Angeli would
be satisfied enough if they were to warn
and divert the course of some future
biographer.
Reviewed Briefly.
Coastal Adventure : L. Wentworth Day
(Harrap). Knocking around the coast
and inland waterways of south-east Eng-
land in an ancient yacht; with fishing,
duck-shooting and yeomen.
* * * *
Portrait of Canterbury Cathedral: G.
H. Cook (Phoenix House). Seventy
photographs and 15,000 words of letter-
press displaying the beauties and curio-
sities of the cathedral and telling its
history. The book is handsomely pro-
duced, a companion to the Durham
volume.
* * * *
A Norfolk Diary : edited by Herbert
J. B. Armstrong from the diary of the
Rev. Benjamin Armstrong, vicar of East
Durham, 1850-88 (Harrap). An extract
from May 1, 1884: “Dined with the
Barrys of Tuddenham. Met among
others Mr. and Mrs. Blake. He is the
new Rector of Easton. They sang duets
beautifully. Mr, Blake could also whistle
an accompaniment like a nightingale, but
all rather theatrical.” The diary, with its
own claims to merit for its simplicity, is
like the raw material for a Trollope novel.
jfc ♦ H*
Foundations of Philosophy: T. V.
Fleming (Shakspeare Head). A general
walkabout in the realms of philosophy
from Aristotle to H. G. Wells —-whose
errors regarding “the real existence of ‘a
rigid four-dimensional space-time con-
tinuum’ ” are gently chided. The inten-
tion is to explain the great philosophies
to the ordinary reader and to provide him
with a path through the maze.
* * * *
A Holiday Fisherman: Maurice Hed-
lam (Hale). Mr. Hedlam has pur-
sued the trout and salmon with un-
flagging enthusiasm, chiefly on Irish
streams. For instance, when he hooked
a great fish which took him off into the
weeds and twisted his cast round a branch
that stuck in the mud he took off all his
clothes and waded' in ; whereupon the nsn
departed, leaving a middle-aged gentle-
man stark naked struggling back througn
nettles and thistles over rocks on to a
slippery bank with rod held high, shou -
ing for help which never came. . '
Hedlam is useful in the art of
and poetic on the hatching of the may y
in Hampshire.


HHB .
i i
■
■ ■ B
V. r.i- ' \ ' ■niin'!i'lliiViMfii tm
Wr Mm
r".w sl ''J-’-'n
,
>
-
’"■"IHIII
& '
i
Ik
□
IX
•-
h
u
Cl
rss
‘
■
••■■■ ■ -si, -“V
f
■ ~
■- •<,
Ss
ii»
5&
HITHOIY HORDERNS
1|
H
"TRUTH «IN ! ADVERTISING*
Design for Summer Living..
Designed for cool summer living, this FIVE-PIECE SUN ROOM SETTING
comprising table and four chairs, in Maple, Silky Oak and Silver Ash. Seat backs
are laced plain canvas, wide range of colours.
Price of setting is £l9/17/- complete; table, £4/18/-; chairs, each £3/16/-.
FIVE-PIECE TUBULAR SETTING, lacquered Green, Cream or Red
comprises table, four chairs. Chairs are laced, striped canvas.
Price, setting complete, £23/19/9; table, £4/14/9; chair, £2/17/6; umbrella, £7/15/-
U - __
SWINGING SETTEE
with upholstered back
and sprung seat, adjustable
canopy in multi-coloured
striped canvas, £25/1/-
ws
D D
3
,1
«;<'■< fI;
: ■
../'A ■
* I
i? ■ M
*
Wmm
. .
r-
siais#
, .:■■■■ ■
TROPICAL VERANDAH CHAIR in striped, multi-coloured canvas,
lacquered frames in various colours or multi-coloured. Price, £3/3/- each
WROUGHT IRON VERANDAH CHAIR, adjustable head rest. In
multi-coloured striped canvas. Frame in Red, Green, Cream. £5/14/3
SPLIT CANE CHAIR. The sleepy hollow reading chair is particularly
strongly built and oh, so comfortable to lounge in. Price is only £4/15/9
WROUGHT IRON LOUNGE CHAIR with footstool and adjustable
back. Cushions in Blue, Red, Green plain colour. With cushions, £l6/8/9
ANTHONY HORDERNS’ OUTDOOR FURNITURE DEPT.—FOURTH FLOOR.
PHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


S 5
* '/• -
. h T~ t i;*J
'■•-*» » Ai S*. aa M
18S
|****&m{rfcm* jr
mfarifkHium
**s *
I
~£ g-ff%<> ;®-|
«. («,* <• ;. 6*■;'** '*-■<**
Ift «i J*» *£«* (>*<■ !*!'»*■
•.a . Jfc -tf A *./.*.?«■ /«* It/ £K*T* /A - ' ■
j:&s, ***&£’
■ *&>’ *,a .y,/ -i /Vx *•■**£■•/. i*/: <t* /• **>/• j* jt f ffi, ■■ 3& -
'■r-: 4
•»■ J. «V * ■• w 4 *f
>•»••*• JA V I
' '*?%' .A; vV/
f'"*> #a, f
. fS'£S^ ; f:jf«issa^wssjBlstft-5'
r J&* Refill ? * t^LititsswmSm:.
s;
" Is IS S*l IsffiiMf
»*• * • iisjagmiffiSa*!
:52:i^SS2SSlSS!^^Twll!
tSI »»-* *-f * <
•«2t lIS.SSSSS P»W ?*
ftSi|#IIIIM : iiipriife|f'
2 &SX* %'tt
■*ilil|s| 1 1-* * *>**-* &
♦J* £« *1 4
#*» |s>
*♦‘l’
>■“ (••■£ y
X*‘ ••' A-* A* y *«• f ■ X* 1
f »•
,':*•;•>' | <f>| *r-,| ..
-. ' • '**<.«....
<?•%■'* V -f :* -ft. A
: V i^-^.j. «*
‘ ;-'ft t 4**t * :
••| *Wf
* 4 ,i
*1
m
■■'l*^%
\ ■** & y
'-, %%TOWA
r ///////A
,* « « *■
■ S Ask#'/.*
;-fc.«iJSWiS#**s'-s 1 »" ■
* -' ■'* ■
yr
Bsa
»S»R
j »
/
%; s '~-
■]/
' N>
f/f/jFJ
m
■
NS
4 ,--.k;. , • v \ v . a’ yf/
ABBOTSFORD N . 9, VICTORIA
DISTRIBUTED THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
. c> ■' ■" ••■>■■ ■


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3636
Wednesday, October 19, 1949
“OPERATION DELOUSE.”
"I think we’d better make a show of delousing it, Clem—until the elections are over.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521; ‘Phone. 8U5971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
DEAD-END EXPERIMENT.
In both Britain and Australia the Socialist
vehicle is bogged down in the morass of
which every signpost along the road gave
notice with warnings more and more
peremptory, and all disregarded. Gul-
lible electorates had put their confidence
in the advocates of Marxian Socialism,
in the prosperity-for-all of the idealist
collectivist State; and the chauffeurs of
the New Order, driving forward under
a political intoxication unequalled by the
worst records of any traffic police court,
have run their machines into the ditches
that awaited them.
In Australia the reckless, spendthrift
career of the Chifley Government has
collided with the Federal Constitution,
which, whatever may be said against its
shortcomings, is at least able to assert an
effectual authority in check of smash-
grab politics. In Britain —a little ahead
of this Commonwealth on the road to
breakdown —the very foundation of the
nation’s power and prestige in the world
is undermined.
Enormous, almost tyrannical, powers
have been assumed by these theoretical,
cranky and prejudiced Socialists without
their acceptance of corresponding admin-
istrative responsibility. In Australia the
Government obviously has a broad
larrikin strain.
For each of these two communities —•
together the backbone today of the essen-
tially British Commonwealth —only a
general election can resolve the doubts
and confusion that afflict politics and in-
dustrial life. So close has been the inter-
action of the Socialist “experiment” in
each of the two countries that the popular
reaction at the Australian polls in
December should considerably influence
the Socialists’ fate in Britain. The Attlee
and the Chifley Governments are as in-
timately related to each other as are, say,
those of Moscow and Bucharest. The
liaison between their operative policies
entails more than watching briefs in each
other’s vivisectionist experiments. Both
are as uncertain of what the results will be
as they are dependent upon the hated
capitalist (in America) for their ability to
make these experiments. Without the dis-
tribution abroad of American-earned
dollars the Socialist economy in Britain
would have collapsed long ago, and the
Australian little brother could hardly have
survived.
There is this difference between the
two outfits. Britain’s is, of course, the
earlier (by one year) and the immensely
bigger and more fateful for the future
of the Western world ; but it did have a
warrant from the electors. Whatever
grievance the British people may feel by
reason of privations worse than even the
war-time austerity, at least they voted
for the experiment. The Canberra
Socialisation ramp has no such authorisa-
tion. Not only did the Australian people
receive no warning in 1946 of what the
Chifley Ministry intended in attack on
the Australian social order, but at every
opportunity since given them to pro-
nounce upon this deception they have
been signally defeated. It has been in
no conflict with this public feeling that
the High Court has persistently declared
the Chifley Government’s legislative en-
actments to be constitutionally invalid.
Upon the most notoriously doubtful of
its actions the Government, assiduous as
it has been in seeking referendum powers
over industry, has rigidly refused to take
any popular vote.
That vote must be taken in seven weeks’
time, and the Liberal and Country parties
should work in such fashion as to make
it decisive: not merely negative in re-
sistance to the Socialists, but reflecting
the country’s determination to redeem
itself from the Socialist mess. The
leaders who offer themselves for the
job of restoring democratic govern-
ment, restoring enterprise and initiative,
restoring the value of the weekly
wage and the incentive to honest work
must make very clear that they want no
mere hesitating affirmation of that policy.
For this is not a party cause but the
whole nation’s. That is as true for Aus-
tralia as for Britain.
In both countries there has been
reached the point when the Socialists
cannot half-destroy the existing order
and pause there. The Chifleyites seem
to presume that they can get by with a
stand-pat programme. Nobody would
now believe them, anyway, least of all
the fashioners of “Labor” policy behind
the scenes; but even if the attitude were
sincere it would not work. The “Labor”
party today is either Marxian Socialist —•
a term used to describe something which
purports to stop short of Communism —
or it is nothing. That leader of the revo-
lutionaries in the Cabinet, whom Aus-
tralian Communists are said to have de-
scribed as “our man,” has declared in
the plainest language that without social-
isation of all industry “Labor” cannot
function, from which the inference is—
“ Either vote for total Socialism, or don’t
vote ‘Labor.’ ”
A vote for “Labor” at the coming elec-
tions will be a clear signal to the Socialists
to go their hardest. It will mean that if
Mr. Chifley relinquishes his job the elec-
tors don’t mind what wild man in the
party takes over—the wilder the better.
It will mean a vote for inflation whether
the country can carry it or not. It will
mean that the electors have so enjoyed
the waste of time and money and oppor-
tunity in the bickering over the past three
years that they are prepared to vote for
three years more of the same thing. It
can be assumed to mean, as regards
detail, authority to the Socialists to over-
throw the Constitution, if they can, by—
Packing the High Court.
Abolishing appeals to the Privy Council.
Throttling the trading banks by issuing
directions which would drive them out of
business.
Re-establishing central controls of prices
and rationing by restricting import
licences, and perhaps export licences, too,
plus the referendum on prices which they
ultimately hope to win.
With control over all prices and charges
for any services performed within the
community the Socialists, if allowed an-
other term of office, would at the end
of it no longer fear from the Constitution,
or from Parliament either, any let or
hindrance to their revolutionary design.
Already they are arrogant enough to
brush aside Parliamentary demands for
explanations of extravagance and mani-
pulation of public funds. To charges in
Parliament that the Government airline’s
balance-sheets were falsified, the Minister
replied not with denials but with asper-
sions against the line’s chief commercial
competitor. The losses by T.A.A. have
not yet reached the £10,000,000 in three
years admitted by the Government’s
Shipping Board, but even if they had
Ministers’ cockiness remain unshaken.
In the same fashion the British Socialist
Health Minister admits without apology
that “free” health services in Britain have
cost more than twice as much as he esti-
mated ; and the story of how the British
Food Ministry lost millions on potato,
meat, grain and other contracts ought to
brand these control-planners for all time.
The Socialist pretence that it is not the
workers’ money thus wasted, but merely
that of the “profit-seeking” section of the
community, which does not vote “Labor,”
came a bit of a thud when Chancellor
Cripps, explaining what devaluation
means, told the British unions in effect
that they had got to work longer hours
weekly without any rise in wages—that
even a Socialist Government cannot, in
the words of the London “Spectator,”
“get a quart of social services out of a
pint-pot of production,”
If Australia votes for Chifley and
socialisation on December 10 this country
may expect before the next Parliament is
over to be in as desperate straits as
Britain is now, and for the same reasons.
Socialisation It Is.
The Chifley Government at the moment
finds the socialisation plank of its
platform the most uncomfortable elec-
tioneering companion which it has had
for a very long time.
Though “socialisation of industry, pro-
duction, distribution and exchange” had
been on the Labor platform for a quarter
of a century, “Labor’s” first response
when bank-nationalisation became an
issue in 1947 was to try to put it across
that socialisation was but a vague sort
of aspiration which no member of the
party treated seriously.
But it is hard to explain why, if
socialisation is something to which lip-
service only is given in the party, the 1943
Federal conference passed a resolution —
the then Prime Minister being present as
a delegate and making no protest—in-
structing the A.L.P. Federal executive to
push ahead towards it with all possible
dispatch.. It is even harder to interpret
the action of the 1944 N. S. Wales A.L.P.
conference, which, on a resolution by Mr.
W. C. Taylor, then a director of the Corn-
monwealth Bank and Mr, Chifley’s close
friend and adviser, committed itself to a
plan for implementing socialisation within
10 years. Repeated reaffirmations of the
objective by A.L.P. conferences, Federal
and State, have been recorded since that
time, the last in June, 1949.
Mr. Holloway, who was president of
the A.L.P. in 1921 as well as being chair-
man of the All-Australian Trade Union
congress which adopted socialisation
said, according to the official congress
report, that “socialisation was the cul-
mination of the teachings of Marx.”
The culmination of the teachings of Marx
was certainly not a little bit of selective
nationalisation such as Mr. Chifley, fac-
ing an election, says is involved in the
implementation of the “Labor” objective.
Neither would the discovery of such
a plan as Mr. Chifley suggests to be in-
volved in socialisation have moved Mr.
Theodore, no mean nationaliser himself,
to have cried out, after Mr. Scullin had
explained to him what the plank meant,
that if they adopted it they might just as
well change the name of the party to
“the Communist party” and to have
accused the authors of the plan of having
“used the example of Russia to follow in
the control of industry.”
At the 1921 A.L.P. conference Mr.
Maurice Blackburn did bring forward an
interpretation designed, if not to water the
objective down, at least to make it seem
less all-embracing than it was, but he
failed to have it embodied in the plat-
form ; and it remained forgotten till a
South Australian delegate in a sweat of
fear brought it forward again at the 1948
triennial Federal conference, and had
his resolution politely shelved by the
president and a gathering of wily dele-
gates.
As was made clear by the methods of
socialisation incorporated in the objective
by the 1921 conference, socialisation was
intended to involve;
(a) first, the nationalisation of industries,
and then
(b) the handing-over of those industries
to boards or soviets elected by unions re-
organised on an industrial basis in accord-
ance with the plans of Communism.
That there should be no doubt about
this, Mr. Scullin said, in reply to a chal-
lenge from Mr. Theodore, that Mr.
Theodore was “quite right”;
The objective was to introduce socialisa-
tion instead of nationalisation. Nationalisa-
tion was really State capitalism.
Then he proceeded:
The first step was to employ Parliamentary
machinery to nationalise industry to give
the community and the workers control
of that industry. They would then have
government by the workers in the industry.
The workers would become a group, and
each group would elect representatives to
the Supreme Economic Council So far
as it [the Supreme Economic Council] was
concerned in the socialised State, it would
really take the place of the political Parlia-
ment for all questions of industry.
To make the matter even more explicit,
Mr. Scullin said that “in the transition
stage they would have the industry
nationalised and only partial control by
the workers in that stage.” But when
the scheme had been matured “the
workers would have complete control,
and then they would have the Supreme
Economic Council to hold the balance of
power between all industries.”
The A.L.P. conference adopted this
scheme both piecemeal and on a
bloc vote of 22 votes to 10 as
a plan to socialise and not to
nationalise; a plan to hand over each
industry to the workers in it and all in-
dustries together to a co-operatively con-
structed Supreme Economic Council,
chosen by the votes of the workers. In
the original plan a provision was included
for “Labor educational institutions in
which workers shall be trained in the
management of nationalised industries.”
And this educational feature was also
attached to the Taylor scheme adopted at
the 1944 N. S. Wales conference.
It is no wonder that Mr. Chifley and
his followers are not anxious to admit
that socialisation means socialisation, in
view of how the electors are likely to react
when they realise that there is in the
hands of the “Labor” party, if it can find
the means to carry it out, a plan to which
every “Labor” member of Parliament and
candidate is specifically pledged under the
rules to, hand the coalmines over to the
coalminers, the waterside over to the
watersiders, the meat industry to the
meatworkers, the metal industries to the
Communist-controlled metal unions, such
as the Ironworkers.
It is true that “pledges” are now being
given that Mr. Chifley will attempt
nothing which is not constitutional. But
Heaven knows he has done his best to
override the Constitution. He and his
followers will have not the slightest hesi-
tation in bluffing electors out of their con-
stitutional rights if they are weak and
simple enough to be bluffed.
If Mr. Chifley’s friend Mr. Taylor
had meant nationalisation in 1944 when
he put the Ten-year Socialisation Plan for-
ward, he would not have needed to remark
that in carrying out his plan the “Labor”
party must realise that it did not exist to
preserve for individuals the vested interests
of jobs and positions.” And an instructor
of his Henry Lawson Labor College
would not announce that “the Russian
example” showed socialisation to be
possible.
If socialisation means what Mr. Chifley
pretends that it means, the headquarters
of the Red International of Labor Unions
in Moscow, an offshoot of the Comintern,
would not have taken the trouble to issue
a manifesto to Australian trade-unions
in which it declared that the June, 1921,
trade-union congress had “taken the
right path,” and that it was “necessary
that you elaborate consequent revolu-
tionary tactics.” Moreover, if the
socialisation objective had not still meant
during the life of the present Parliament
what it was intended to mean by Messrs.
Scullin, Garden, Curtin, Baddeley and
Holloway, not to mention Messrs. Drake-
ford and Willis, when they drafted and
explained it in 1921, the “Standard
Weekly,” official organ of the Australian
Labor party, would scarcely have been
able to go into ecstasies of rejoicing in its
issue of January 4, 1947, at Stalin’s pro-
nouncement that British Socialism and
Russian Socialism had “the same objects,
though different methods.”
If any elector has the shadow of a
doubt as to whether Mr. Chifley is
attempting to cover up something, let him
look at the current Federal “Labor”
platform. There he will find these words:
Socialisation of industry by.,..the re-
organisation and establishment of co-
operative activities in which the workers
and other producers shall be trained in the
management, responsibility and control of
industry,
A vote for Mr. Chifley and his varied
assortment of comrades at the forthcom-
ing election is a vote to make a present
of the country to the union movement —
which, under existing circumstances, is
tantamount to handing it over to the
Communist forces.
"Mother Hubbard" Threat.
With his customary aplomb the Prime
Minister gravely assured Mrs. Blackburn,
the Victorian Independent Labor lady,
that he would first ascertain what was
being done in Europe and then consider
a request from the Federal Association of
Australian Housewives for the creation of
a Ministry of Housekeeping.
He added that anybody appointed to
such a portfolio would probably be called
“Mother Hubbard.” This comment
doubtless arose from the gentleman’s deli-
cate sense of humor, but as many a true
word is spoken in jest the title might fit-
tingly apply to some of Mr. Chifley’s
existing Ministers, perhaps Defence,
whose cupboard is notoriously bare of
manpower, or Housing, whose cupboard
containeth not a house.
However, the real point is that neither
Mrs. Blackburn nor the ladies in whose
behalf she spoke apparently realise the
danger of such a Ministry. Even were
it beaded by one of their own sex it
would have no easy path, for there is
nothing the housewife resents more than
interference with her domestic routine.
One need only note her reaction to well-
meant advice from her husband’s female
relations, or from friendly females of the
managing type, to appreciate the truth of
that.
The real danger, however, would lie in
the effect on the nation’s housewives
themselves. Should they adopt the public-
service way of never making a decision
until it has been “referred” elsewhere,
of carefully filing everything, of follow-
ing strict routine in washing, shopping
and mending, of insisting on long-service
leave —Lord, a man’s life wouldn’t be
worth living.
Above all this, though, is the matter
of efficiency. In public and private enter-
prise today “near enough” is the slogan.
The housewives no longer buy with con-
fidence. Everything has to be examined
for faults, shoddy workmanship, uncom-
pleted details of finish. Buttons fall off
new shifts, handles off new pots, four
yards of material becomes 3| yards, one
apple in every five is specky.
Suppose the housewife caught the dis-
ease, as she very well might if brought
under departmental control? She’d do
half the washing and call it near enough,
clean only the more obvious parts of
the house, darn only the sock-holes that
could be seen, half-cook the food,
“appropriate” part of her budget to other
purposes —as Mr. Chifley does with
petrol-tax —and knock off for the day at
4 p.m. And all complaints would be
“referred” to the Ministry of House-
keeping !
If you love your country, Mrs. Black-
burn and ladies, refrain, oh, refrain I,


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Wrong of Being Right.
Australians do not like bad losers, and
nothing shows more clearly the extent to
which the Chifley Government has lost
touch with the feeling of the people than
its reaction to reverses. The Prime
Minister himself, who finds his practised
air of urbanity one of his greatest Parlia-
mentary assets, has more than once in
moments of defeat shown himself a very
bad loser, and, in this, as in many other
things, his Ministers and the rank-and-file
of “Labor” members seem to take their
cue from the leader.
The Chifley reaction to the first
High Court reverse on banking was
a typical example, as was the in-
decent haste with which he threw price-
control back to the States after the defeat
of the 1948 referendum —an action which
seemed to be dictated only by a desire to
“take it out of” those who had thwarted
his desire to make the controls a perma-
nent feature of the Australian economy.
This revenge motif runs through all
“Labor” criticism of those who oppose
their plans. If a legal decision goes
against them it is the judges or the people
or institutions which made the appeal
who are wrong; if a referendum
is defeated it is the people who
have made the mistake, or the Oppo-
sition parties who have wrongly advised
them. “Labor” and its advisers are never
wrong though a thousand courts give
verdicts against them.
Last June the Commonwealth’s right
to ration petrol was successfully chal-
lenged in the High Court by a Brisbane
garage-proprietor who had been prose-
cuted for allegedly infringing Canberra’s
regulations. In appealing to the High
Court he was exercising a right to which
every Australian is entitled; but, accord-
ing to “Labor” reasoning, he was wrong
in doing so. At any rate Senator Nash,
sheltering behind Parliamentary privilege,
saw fit to describe him as “an Australian
of the poorest possible type.” What
brought this insulting remark down upon
the head of the Brisbane man was not
his alleged offence or even his appeal.
His real offence was that he won his case.
That, in “Labor” eyes, was unpardon-
ably wrong.
The latest example of this philosophy
occurred in the passage of words between
Mr. Chifley and Mr. Menzies over the
1945 Banking Act. The Prime Minister
made a statement in very definite terms
that at the time that Act was under fire
some of the trading banks had issued
writs challenging its validity, but had
withdrawn them under pressure from
other banks. This was straitly denied
by the banks, and Mr. Menzies asked the
Prime Minister-to name the banks which
had issued writs and challenged him to
table the writs in the House. Mr. Chifley
thereupon shuffled and said he had been
referring to a writ issued by the Mel-
bourne City Council and later withdrawn,
“which, I have no doubt at all, was sup-
ported by the banking institutions.”
When Mr. Menzies asked whether this
was a withdrawal of his original statement
Mr. Chifley spoke of “letters written by
the private banks to the Commonwealth
Bank” and offered to table them. What
right he had to table such corres-
pondence without reference to the
governor of the Commonwealth Bank is
another question. Mr. Menzies persisted
in asking for the writs, and the Prime
Minister replied: “I think the Right
Honorable Leader of the Opposition is
getting a little irritable lately. He must
have some foreboding.”
The suggestion of irritableness and fore-
boding is not in the Prime Minister’s
usual Parliamentary style. It is not, how-
ever, without significance. Psychologists
have a term for the attributing to others
of one’s own emotions, and this seems
almost a textbook example. If Mr.
Chifley has no forebodings about the com-
ing election he must be even further out
of touch with public opinion than the
rest of his party. The truth was, of
course, that Mr. Chifley had been proved
wrong, and a “Labor” man can’t be wrong,
just as an opponent of “Labor” can’t be
right. The Brisbane garage-man was “an
Australian of the poorest type” because
the High Court said he was right. He
was wrong because he was right. Menzies
was wrong because he was right. Vary-
ing the theme a little, no one who is
Right can possibly be right. To be right
you must be Left.
New Vested Interests.
When critics call Mr. Chifley a humbug
and his policy a cynical contradiction of
the principles he pretends to uphold, those
critics are, of course, marked down for
his or some other Minister’s denunciation.
Mr. Chifley’s sobbing in public over
the exploited, defenceless Australian
worker, over how he is robbed by the
profit-seeking capitalist, would fill the
Molonglo lake in a drought year. Only a'
perpetuation of his Government, runs his
plea, can preserve the forgotten man from
the brutal way prices of everything he
needs are raised against him by private
enterprise. The inflation that has caught
up this country in its talons is, of course,
nothing to do with the Chifley economy!
Turn now to Mr. Chifley’s statement
on his Government’s proposed attempt to
solve the housing problem—the scheme
with which, at the eleventh hour before
the writs are issued for the elections, he
proposes to correct the go-slow output in
people’s homes under the past four (post-
war) years of “Labor” rule. He has
offered to “subsidise” the importation of
10,000 prefab, houses to the extent of
£3OO each by waiving Customs duty on
them, but they must be consigned only to
State or Federal housing authorities. The
Government, that is, will waive duty on
its own imports, like Mr. Woolworth
charging himself no more than cost price
on a child’s toy. But there is, of course,
a condition;
The Commonwealth contribution must
not reduce the cost of a unit to less than
the cost of a traditionally-built dwelling
of similar accommodation.
This plainly means that the prefab,
imported houses must cost the eventual
owner just as much as a “traditionally
built” (brick, timber, fibro?) house of
the same size. This is required because
the bosses of the Building Workers’ In-
dustrial Union, or of some constituent
trades within it, refuse to allow a house
to appear in Australia at a lower cost than
they “traditionally” exact for the cor-
responding job, supposing they did the
work. In other words, Mr. Chifley’s £3OO
on each house (taxpayers conceding the
money) will not reduce its price by com-
parison with the local article because
Mr. Chifley’s union dictators won’t stand
for cheaper housing.
The next Commonwealth Loan quiz
ought to offer a prize for anybody who
can suggest any sillier policy in a Govern-
ment that professes desire to reduce costs
of production.
The houses whose cost will be thus
inflated by deliberate Government action
are to be allocated preferentially to coal-
miners and steelworkers. Since these
unions and the 8.W.1.U. are all bossed
by Communists, dog will apparently pro-
ceed to eat dog. But that is how this
Chifley “Government” seems to like
things.
An Indignant Uncle.
Ministers in Canberra, travelling along
with their own Socialist experiment, have
claimed a strange new-found attachment
to Britain and British Government
policy as an answer to Liberal “im-
perialist” critics. “The trouble with the
Opposition,” said Mr. Chifley the other
day, “is that the British people have a
Labor Government.”
But, of course, when the Socialist “ex-
periment” in Britain collapses and the
Attlee Government with it, the pro-
British sentiments of Mr. Chifley (sup-
posing he survived his own elections in
December) would undergo, like Our
Foreign Policy, a “change of plumage in
mid-flight.”
For Mr., Chifley depends considerably
upon the survival of Cripps, and Cripps’s
programme depends on American
financial aid, henceforth to be reduced
and demonstrably insufficient. The ex-
tent of that aid was recently reviewed in
the U.S. Congress by Senator James P.
Kem, of Missouri, in a two-hour
speech. These were some of his points,
which only the American public heard
at length:
The United States is spending billions- of
dollars to stop Marxian Communism, and
is simultaneously spending further billions
to finance and promote Marxian Socialism
in Britain, simply a more peaceable way
of attaining a Communist objective.
If the U.S. had not financed the British
Socialist programme it could not have been
carried out.
Counterpart funds are the sterling
balances the British Government accumu-
lates by selling Marshall-plan goods to
the British people for sterling. Last year
the E.C.A. allowed the British Government
to use more than £lOO million it had
accumulated in counterpart funds to reduce
o Continued on next page.)
the British national debt, swollen through
purchase by the State of industries national-
ised. While we were paying the British
national debt off our own national debt
remained above 252,000 million dollars.
Although at least 2000 million dollars of
American loan was used to expand British
nationalisation, Britain is now short of
dollars because British industries under the
“Welfare State” lack ingenuity, efficiency
and flexibility to produce the types of goods
foreign buyers want. High production
means more than hard work: it means
skilful and resourceful management. Social-
ism sometimes means leisurely labor. Too
often Socialism carries with it management
that is dead on its feet.
Under an agreement Britain made with
the Greek Government in 1946 for a £lO
million British loan, Britain required the
Greeks to fix a new rate of exchange for
their currency, to frame a programme for
reducing their budget deficit, and to re-
adjust salaries and wages. These are the
sort of conditions the British exact when
they lend money. Are we to be censured
for looking with some care to see how
American taxpayers’ money is to be spent?
In Australia we shall not have to wait
long to hear the denunciations of the
American “profit-seeking capitalists”—
it’s your dollars we want! —from those
expert economists Messrs. Chifley, Ded-
man, Pollard and the rest. The speeches
are probably written already and in the
box for delivery, full of anguished howls
against the country whose wealth of pro-
duction under private enterprise has
astonished the world, because “the
money-bags” there will be charged with
having slain that Socialist “experiment”
in Britain which was threatening the
security of American capitalism.
The Big-city Bug.
As Earle Page pointed out at the All-
Australia Constitutional Convention in
July, Sydney and its hinterland —
a coastal strip roughly 100 miles
long and 60 miles wide, comprising
one-fiftieth of the area of New South
Wales —contains two-thirds of the popu-
lation of the State and uses nine-tenths
of its electric power. Between the 1933
and 1947 censuses its population increased
by 400,000 ; in the same period the popu-
lation of the rest of the State de-
creased by 16,000, despite the fact that
“PUSH-BUTTON WARFARE.”
“Speaking on the Estimates, Mr. Dedman, the Minister for Defence who believes in push-button strategy, said
‘Today wars are fought not so much with manpower but with industry,’ and that people who spoke of ‘the number
of men under arms’ were living in the ‘dark ages.’ ”


f
CffifEI
M
mm
CARBERAS LIMITED — OVER ISO YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
: ' •
W
4
6435E/R
It’s their consistent
freshness that
makes me prefer
CRAVEN'A'
the natural increase of that area had been
180,000.
In other words, the Sydney area, in
addition to its own natural increase,
swallowed up the natural increase of the
country and 16,000 more. It also ab-
sorbed a few thousand from other States.
This, of course, is not peculiar to New
South Wales ; every State capital is grow-
ing at the expense of the country. Un-
fortunately, although it is easy to regret
that the packed city populations are not
distributed among a number of cities in
different parts of each State, it is too late
now to do anything about it. But further
unhealthy growth could be limited. Dr.
Page suggested that this can best be done
by the creation of new States, which, by
giving areas remote from the city new
focal points of interest, would arrest the
drift.
United States experience supports the
belief that a self-contained district such
as northern New South Wales would
thrive more if the projected State of
New England became a reality than if it
remained a part of the Mother State with
its destinies controlled from Sydney. The
same argument applies to other parts of
Australia, notably North Queensland.
The Country party has always been in
favor of subdividing the existing States,
and lately the idea has won considerable
support from the Liberals. What is
needed is a full-scale convention
which could thrash out plans acceptable
to Federal and State Governments. But
such developments cannot be expected
while “Labor” remains in power; the
party is too much a Big-City party to
entertain for a moment the idea of creat-
ing new States.
POLITICAL POINTS
However much Chifley may desire to
pretend, for election purposes, that bank-
nationalisation is a dead animal, the plain
fact is that the creature won’t lie down.
Menzies pointed out last week:
(1) Parliament has power to abolish the
right of appeal to the Privy Council.
(2) “Labor’s” platform includes such
abolition.
(3) There is no limit to the power of
Parliament to increase the membership of
the High Court Bench.
(4) The Bank Nationalisation Act is still
on the statute-books.
A charge by Spender that it was the
Government’s intention to stack the High
Court brought a pained disclaimer from
Evatt, who said that “such a thought has
never occurred to the Government.” It
has certainly occurred to one member of
the Government—the Minister for Trans-
port —and another member, Senator Arm-
strong, would probably have to keep his
fingers crossed if called upon to swear it
had never occurred to him. Dr. Evatt
gave no definite assurance that he would
oppose such a plan if it were proposed,
nor did his leader, whose comment was; “I
rather resent the suggestions that have
been made about these partic’lar matters.”
Something more definite is wanted, please,
Mr. Chifley. Resentment is not enough.
Many a man, “Labor” men among ’em,
has been able to swallow his resentment
when the stakes were high enough.
Attlee’s decision not to go to the coun-
try before Christmas was probably wel-
come news for Chifley. It is bad enough
having to contend with the possibility of
a Socialist reverse in New Zealand just
before the Federal election without having
to worry about a similar setback in
Britain,
Anthony Eden told the Conservatives’
annual conference that the Labor Govern-
ment had spent too much time destroy-
ing wealth and too little time creating it.
He was talking about the Attlee Govern-
ment, but the breed is much the same
everywhere.
That dollar-loan argument. The re-
ports of the International Monetary Fund
and the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development show that
during the 12 months ended June 30,
loans totalling 191,600,000 dollars were
made by the bank. Countries benefiting
were: Mexico (for electric-power develop-
ment), Brazil (hydroelectric-power and
telephones), Belgium (steel-mill equip-
ment and power plant), Finland (indus-
trial reconstruction and modernisation),
Holland (industrial reconstruction and
modernisation), India (railway develop-
ment), and Chile (hydroelectric develop-
ment), A dissection of Australia’s imports
from America would probably show items
included in all those categories. Chifley
says he will not borrow dollars to finance
imports of consumer goods. Well enough,
but the seven countries listed above
didn’t do that either. They borrowed
for capital expenditure and financed
their consumer-goods imports-out of ex-
ports or, in the case of India, by drawing
on sterling-pool dollars.
The Communist-run Miners’ Federa-
tion is taking its revenge on the public
for its loss of face in the midwinter coal
strike. The coalies have stopped working
the back-Saturday shift, and declare
they’re going to start their three weeks’
annual holiday a week earlier—which
means another black Christmas if they’re
allowed to get away with it.
Last week N.S.W. Prices Minister
Finnan confessed he didn’t know why
Sydney afternoon papers had been
allowed to increase their prices from 2d.
to 3d. He intends to find out, having
been twitted by C.P.-member Stephens
(Byron Bay) as to why he refused a 3d.-
a-pound increase in butter, which
amounted to |d. a week per consumer,
though his department allowed a 6d.-a-
-week increase on newspapers. Finnan
could have said that butter was more
essential than some newspapers, but
merely remarked that all the prices
officials had opposed the butter rise and
that he didn’t know why the papers got
their increase, but would inquire.
Drakeford seemed quite happy over
T.A.A.’s little loss of £94,000 until Ryan,
M.H.R. for Flinders (Vic.), charged the
Government line with falsifying its
accounts He alleged that during the
year stores worth £58,000 had been either
stolen or unaccounted for by documents
and that the Commission had not shown
this in the balance-sheet, but had written
up the value of the rest of its stores, some
of which had been bought cheaply from
War Disposals, by £200,000. If Drake-
ford’s reply was intended to refute the
allegation it was not very successful. He
charged Ryan with having got his in-
formation from A.N.A., and seemed to
think that was a full and sufficient ex-
planation. He went on to say that A.N.A.
had also bought cheap spare-parts from
the Disposals Commission, adding, “I
would not be so mean as to suggest these
were responsible for some of the mishaps
that have taken place.” Would not be so
mean? The mere mention of the fact
amounts to such a suggestion.
Lang got it out of Ashley that the
Canberra Government used nearly half
as much petrol as the six State Govern-
ments in 1948-49, the respective figures
being 8,441,000 and 17,055,000 gallons.
A large proportion of the State’s petrol
is used for public transport. Ashley
wouldn’t release T.A.A. consumption be-
cause “it is not the practice to make
public the amount obtained by any in-
dividual commercial user.”
Details of petrol imports in 1948-49
and where they came from, as given by
the Fuel Minister to the Canberra Par-
liament ;
Source. Gallons. Value.
£
Singapore .. 48,486,000 1,866,000
Bahrein Island .. 78,432,000 2,644,000
Indonesia .. 134,582,000 5,278,000
Persia .. .. 86,532,000 3,306,000
United States .. 46,477,000 1,853,000
Borneo .. .. 3,956,000 171,000
Saudi Arabia and
other countries.. 5,998,000 249,000
Totals .. 404,463,000 15,367,000
There’ll be trouble when the wharfies
find out that the Dutch got the money
for all that Indonesian petrol.
There was some talk in Sydney political
circles this week of a change in the
Liberal-C.P. Senate team to make pro-
vision for one woman candidate, in the
event of the retirement of one of the
existing team through illness.
Despite advances in those parts of the
world where might is right. Communism
is very much on the defensive in Europe.
Elections under a free vote in Norway
and Austria have followed the pattern of
those in other Western countries, with
the Reds losing ground badly. In
Czechoslovakia purges have begun in real
earnest, illustrating the truism that Com-
munism cannot succeed or survive with-
out savage suppression of all opposition.
'Hie standover tactics of the maritime
unions in relation to Australian ships sold
to overseas interests have been given the
official approval of the Chifley Govern-
ment ; in calling tenders for the sale of
the cargo vessel Corrimal, Senator Ash-
ley’s department specified that the buyer
must engage an Australian crew to take
the vessel to its destination. This, of
course, means that the buyer would have
to repatriate the crew to Australia at full
rates of pay. Recent history of ship
sales: Ngatoro held up for months after
sale until the Philippines buyers paid
£l2OO to the maritime unions for per-
mission to sail with a Filipino crew;
Reynella, sold months ago and still held
up by a claim for a similar payment;
Corrimal, only one tender received—no
sale. A few weeks ago the Prime Minister
told a questioner in the House that it
was customary for the selling countfy
to provide the crew to deliver a ship. He
was gravely misinformed; any such
custom originated in the minds of the
unions which his Government allows to
control the Australian waterfront and its
foreign policy.
Complaining that Brisbane was short
of beef because cattlemen could get
greater prices for it across the N.S.W.
border, Sparkes told the Parliament
“You wouldn’t know in Brisbane what
good station beef is. All you get is old
bull, tough as blazes, and old cows.” The
Australian people are going to get a lot
of old bull between now and Decem-
ber 10.
Newspaper reports of the inquest on
a boxer slugged into a cerebral
haemorrhage in John Wren’s Sydney
Stadium coincided with protests against
N.S.W. “Labor’s” saving of that hideous
barn. With Eastern Suburbs railway con-
struction works on its hands, “Labor”
had to decide whether the Wren joint
or the Rushcutter Bay park should go,
and naturally its sentence fell on the
park. To the Peepul’s party one park
more or less matters nothing, but if its
millionaire patron had to shift to another
bloodhouse the free list for “Labor” poli-
ticians would be “suspended indefinitely.”
Most “Labor” members have said
something similar, but Hadley, of Lilley
(Q.), is probably the most recent. On
September 21 he told the House:
The miners’ leaders were sent to prison
because they defied the law. The doctors
are defying the law, the Government and
the will of the people, as expressed at a
referendum.
Barely a fortnight later the High Court
decided that it was the Government, not
the doctors, who had defied the law and
the will of the people as expressed at a
referendum.
Parlor Pinks inside the N.S.W. Teachers’
Federation argue that the fact that Samuel
Phineas Lewis, president of the federation,
is a Communist is of little importance—
that his sole interest is the welfare of
members, and his brand of politics is his
own business entirely. Those fellow-
travellers will find it hard to explain why,
at the council meeting of the federation
held on October 8, Lewis allowed a teacher
to sell “Tribunes” to council members
while the meeting was in progress. When
a member objected the president mildly
“requested” the salesman to stop, and it
was not until the protesting member in-
sisted on more positive action that a defi-
nite order came from the chair. The news-
boy concerned was, and is, a deputy-head-
master.
Brisbane wharfies have allowed their
Commo bosses to bulldoze them into pay-
ing 6d. a week each into a “sports fund,”
allegedly to provide them with football,
cricket, tennis, fishing, golf and other
games. It’ll run into more than £3OOO a
year, and the Commo bosses will certainly
have sport with it.
The Full Bench of the Industrial Com-
mission, by a majority decision, ordered
Newcastle City Council to reinstate Alfred
E. Doberer, the electricity superintendent
who was dismissed for refusing, on re-
ligious grounds, to join a union. The de-
cision creates a precedent that will have
union secretaries jumping at shadows.
This time they’re not waiting until
after the elections to hand out jobs to
party members —Richards, leader of the
“Labor” Opposition in the South Aus-
tralian Assembly, has just been given a
five-year appointment as Administrator
of Nauru. Leading the Opposition
against Playford since 1938 has been a
thankless task for Richards, and, with
a State election due early next year,
perhaps the party felt a change of leaders
might help. Richards is 64.
Having lost his appeal to the High
Court against his conviction for sedi-
tion, L. L. Sharkey, general-secretary of
the “Australian” Communist party,
came up before Mr. Justice Dwyer on
Monday for sentence. With the com-
ment that “as far as this court is con-
cerned there is no close season for sedi-
tion” his Honor handed out the maximum
—three years’ jail.
ONCE BITTEN.
Says Ben to the Doc,
“It’s a bit of a shock;
The High Court’s agin us again.”
“No shock,” says the Doc.
“Call it rather a knock.”
“Knock or shock, I don’t like it,” says Ben.
Says Chifley to Bert,
“You said ’twas a cert.
‘Can’t lose’ were your words, I recall.”
“No cert,” replies Bert,
Just a tiny bit curt,
“I said ‘Even jtnoney,’ that’s all.”
Says Evatt, H. V.,
To Chifley, J. B„
“Shall we go for a Council appeal?
“I’ll handle the brief”
“Like hell,” says his chief,
“I’d sooner send Spender or Beale.”
N.S.W.
JASBY.


a
tan:
EXIDE
BATTERIES
OF
AUSTRALIA
PTY. LTD.
44 BRIDGE ST.
SYDNEY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Still smiling at Father Time, Jim
Rogers, only surviving Australian V.C.-
winner of the Boer War, marched with
the rest of that war’s veterans in Mel-
bourne last week. Jim left with the first
contingent, Vic. Mounted Rifles, in 1899,
and was a sergeant when his courage in
dragging three cobbers back to safety
under a flail of fire qualified him for the
Hail of Heroes. When the Kaiser cut
loose, Jim did his bit again with the Ist
Anzac Division. Born in the Riverina,
he has just notched 74,
Victor Courtney, managing director of
the Perth “Sunday Times,” is to represent
the Press and Westralia on the Immigra-
tion Planning Council —a well-deserved
compliment to an able writer, withal a
prince of good fellows, who has never
been a rabid “Labor” man. Indeed,
Courtney preserves the veneration for
Alfred Deakin cherished by Jack Simons,
his Y.A.L. preceptor and “Sunday Times”
partner, who preceded Curtin as M.H.R.
for Fremantle, Nearly all Courtney’s
working life has been spent on the “Sun-
day Times,” which he joined in 1911
under the editorship of J. E. Webb, after-
wards editor of The Bulletin. He be-
longs to an old newspaper family—an
uncle was Tom Courtney, still remem-
bered by old hands for his Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” leaders when the “D.T.” was
a power in the political world.
A note from “Bellerive”:
The sudden stop of my old-age poems ap-
pears to me that my service as a contributor
is know longer desired. For long and widening
years, thro calm and storm, I played the
game fair to the core of my heart. I’ll forward
a few verses I have on hand to the editor and
cease correspondence with a clear conscience,
more important to me than fame. Having
battled among showmen, etc., for a living when
a young man, and later laborously by the dew
of my brow, I realised my cradled gift for
verse was a hungry one. It retained an influence
over me, and you’ll find a poem of mine in
conclusion.
The Bulletin hastens to assure its old
friend that the “sudden stop” was only
because of lack of space and was not
due to any falling-off on his part. A
small item from his pen graces this week’s
“Answers,” and the verse mentioned in
his note will appear in next week’s issue.
T. A. G. Hungerford, second-prize
winner of Sydney “Herald’s” novel com-
petition with his first book, Sowers of the
Wind (no first prize was awarded), was a
World War II commando; he gained
material for his yam during a post-
surrender spell in Japan. Now he is in
the nature of a historian, collecting, sift-
ing and editing war stories from the three
Services which continue to reach the
Australian War Memorial in Canberra for
inclusion in the combined-Services annual,
As You Were. Hungerford hails from
Perth and has turned out some very good
short stories, some of the earliest of which
appeared in The Bulletin in the war
years.
Queensland sugar-men, at last realis-
ing their aim of having their own research
organisation, as well as the existing Gov-
ernment bureau of experimental stations,
have appointed Dr. H. W. Kerr research
chief. Kerr has been sifting amongst
sugar since, in 1924, he won a Queens-
land research scholarship and used it
abroad, mainly in the U.S., returning with
his doctorate in 1927. Director of the
Government set-up for 11 years from
1932, when he was seconded to the Com-
merce Department as chief food techno-
logist, he won his post from a world-
wide field of 70. He will set up his
lab. in the mecca of millers, Mackay.
Just now having a look at English
schools on a Gowrie travelling scholar-
ship, P. N. Thwaites, himself son of a
headmaster, goes to the headship of
Guildford Grammar, one of Westralia’s
excellents. Born in Toowoomba on the
Downs, he was schooled at Geelong
Grammar, got B.A. and the Dixon
Scholarship in maths at Melbourne Uni-
versity, and his M.A. at Oxford. He re-
turned to Geelong Grammar to instruct
in maths, and, when World War II broke,
carried his instructing into the Navy,
where, commissioned a radar officer, he
taught the subject for two years. An in-
structor in a new subject learns more of
it than his pupils, which probably
accounts for Thwaites being sent to Wash-
ington and London as Radar Liaison
Officer in 1944. He relieves Canon R. E.
Freeth, who has been head of Guildford
for the past 21 years.
Farewell from a friend:
Sydney art lost something vital with the
passing of Sydney Ure Smith, for he
was not only an artist but about the best
publicist that Australian art ever had. Born
in Stoke Newington, London, in the village
where Edgar Allan Poe went to school, he spent
most of his earlier youth in the then-august
precincts of Sydney’s Hotel Australia, of which
his father was manager. The son himself had
always a jovial “mine-host” air about him.
He studied art under Julian Ashton, etched,
drew and painted assiduously, safeguarding
many an historic Australian building and scene
from oblivion before “progress” blotted it out.
He founded “Art in Australia” and the
“Home,” which he edited until 1938, when he
set up in business as a publisher. Many of
the best books on the work of Australian
artists bear his name on the title page, and
be it said that he published with the book
rather than the profit in the forefront of his
mind. He was consultant to everybody con-
cerned in art, and did so much for others,
and so warmly praised their work, that some
were apt to forget the high intrinsic quality
and versatility of his own work. His etchings
and watercolors are in all Australian art
galleries and in those of the Metropolitan
Museum of New York and the New York
Public Library. He died after a long illness,
cheerful and uncomplaining to the last.
Operated on here by Dubois, one of
the bloodthirstiest men in N.S.W. (and
still thirsting for more), Colonel Alexander
Mclntosh, chairman of the Red Cross
Blood Transfusion Committee. Under
pressure he told something of his own
history, but with a restraint verging on
bloodlessness ; including that his present
job is Deputy-Director of Medical Services
for Eastern Command, as it was in World
War 11. In the earlier war he did the
same job in Queensland, as well as being
C.O, of hospital ship Karoola, cruising
round India, South Africa and the Medi-
terranean. As administrative head of a
skilled committee of doctors, biochemists
and bacteriologists, he waxes enthusiastic
on the daily harvest two doctors, five
sisters and a staff of 50-odd gather for
afflicted humanity. In an average month
over 250 gallons of blood are sent out
BLOOD-DONORS.
to infuse new life into obstetrical and
post-operative cases —the blood given to
a surprisingly high degree by mothers
who formed the habit when they knew
sons in war-theatres might at any moment
need it. But the need is ever urgent.
Colonel Mclntosh revealed that the aver-
age Australian carries about 14 pints of
fluid round with him. If he’s got half
an hour to spare he could unload a pint
of it at the George-street blood-bank;
the deposit will certainly pay someone a
very high dividend.
A most practical preacher;
Partial to oysters, Heth helped to empty
450 dozen shells when Robert G. le Tourneau,
the American Tractor King, turned it on at
his mammoth (liquorless) party in Sydney, and
the host, anchored to shake a thousand hands,
was the artist’s idea of a sitting shot. Le
Tourneau’s manner of public speech is like a
hot blast from Tibbett in “De Glory Road.”
It matches his 6ft. 3in., 17 stone, and his way
of life. As a traveller in two lines, earth-
moving and gospel, his total mileage so far
would take him around the world 100 times.
He makes half the world’s earth-moving gear,
inventing and designing each of the new
BULLDOZERS.
products himself, putting them on wheels,
speeding them up, and gaining moments of
quiet satisfaction on completing an item like
the new Tourneauhopper, which handles 90
tons at a bite. He is here on a preaching
mission, but the Government may choose him
to supply the gear for the Snowy scheme; his
machines, incidentally, dug the Boulder Dam.
Now 60, Le Tourneau was born in Vermont,
U.S.A., and is currently corralled in Texas.
The religious leanings were inherited from his
grandfather, a French Huguenot schoolteacher
who preached on the side. Le Tourneau’s
aptitude at earth-moving came not from golf,
but a thorough knowledge of tractors, forced
upon him when he returned from World War 1
to find that his business partner had the firm
well in the red. Le Tourneau started repairing
tractors and doing a bit of contract earth-
shifting. One day he invented something that
let his machine shift a little more dirt. He
sold that tractor at a profit, bought another,
and made it even better. In this manner he
squared everything by 1934, when, with hardly
a bean, he started a one-man business in
earth-movers. In 15 years he has made enough
of them to give to his religion 16 million
dollars.
A proved expert in morale-boosting
was recognised when South Australia’s
Governor attached M.B.E. to Captain
Russell Wright, who was one of the early
radar trainees sent for duty with Malaya
command. The Japs took him, but even
their meticulous inspections failed to
thwart the radar-man’s ingenuity. Radar,
of course, is radio’s twin, and Wright
built a minute masterpiece which he con-
cealed in a waterbottle; another was
hidden in a hut broomhandle. Both
these tiny sets kept Wright’s cobbers in-
formed of outside doings. His best work
was to come, when, in 1943, hoping to
contact British forces in Burma, he went
with the rail-builders into Thailand, tak-
ing with him a piano-accordeon in which,
contrived so cleverly that it allowed the
instrument to play normally, was a 100-
watt transmitter and a seven-valve re-
ceiver. Many a Digger-prisoner will re-
member the life-giving music that
accordeon played.
At the same investiture, receiving the
same award, traffic-constable Charles
Wills, whose hefty figure and ribbon
display make one of Adelaide’s land-
marks. In 1914 he suddenly aged four
years to get into the Highland Light
Infantry, and was a month over 15 when
he reached France, and only five months
older when he was wounded at Loos,
Service in Greece gave him malaria,
which a Malta hospital cleared up ; then
he landed back in France with the
Northumberland Fusiliers, crossed into
Russia with General Ironside, and ended
up in Palestine in the thick of the 1920
riots. Still-itching feet brought him on
to a farm in Westralia, and, after four
years of that, into the S.A. force, in 1928.
It seemed he was settled. But Hitler
broke loose, so off went Wills, now
R.Q.M.S. in the 2/27th Battalion, to the
Middle East. Next he bobs up on the
Owen Stanleys, crosses them to Gona,
then has a look-in at Balik Papan and
the Celebes. Now the 50-year-old Digger
is securely anchored, moving other people
around.
George Duncan, managing the Con-
temporary Art Society exhibition in
Sydney, is more like a prosperous farmer
than the popular idea of an artist.
Tall, bulky and sun-bronzed in well-
tailored tweeds, he looks out of place
among a gathering of bearded daubers in
berets and sandals. A native of Maori-
land in his middle forties, Duncan learned
how to paint under Dattilo-Rubbo. For
seven years he travelled England and
Europe painting and studying, and was
twice on the line at the Royal Academy.
He has been a regular exhibitor with the
Royal Oil Painters’ Institute, the Leicester
Gallery and at other English shows. The
N.S.W. National Gallery has samples of
his work, his paintings have been bought
by the Felton Bequest, and he is well
represented in many private collections
here and in England. Duncan managed
the production and design of murals for
the Glasgow exhibition. Two years ago
his studio on the top floor at the old
Bulletin building at 214 George-street,
Sydney, was burnt out and he suffered
heavy losses. Accepting these philoso-
phically, he’s now well on his feet again.
Professor Robert Speight, who passed
on at Christchurch last month at 82, had
long been a well-loved figure in N.Z.
scholastic and scientific life. Born at Stock-
ton (Eng.), he was educated at Christ-
church Boys’ High and Canterbury Col-
lege, where he taught geology from 1903
to 1930, first as lecturer, and, from 1914
onwards, as professor. For most of that
period and for five years after he was
also curator of Canterbury Museum, and
through intensive field-work over the
years he made himself the authority on
the geology of the South Island and par-
ticularly of Canterbury Province. His
papers on that subject brought him
Fellowships of the Geological Societies
of Britain and America, and he was a
past-president of the Royal Society of
New Zealand. The Bulletin’s old friend
Arnold Wall wrote a touching tribute to
the professor in a Christchurch paper, re-
calling their long association on the staff
of Canterbury College, and the many
excursions they had made together into
the difficult mountain country of the
South Island.
Into the Silence;
At Chatswood (N.S.W.)* Mrs. S. R. Irving,
a daughter of Archdeacon Charles Capel Green-
way, and last surviving grandchild of Francis
Greenway, Sydney’s pioneer architect. One
of her sons is a trustee of St. James’s Church,
Sydney, one of the city’s two surviving Green-
way masterpieces.
At 84, in Melbourne, George Hugo Erickson,
who last year received a gold medal from King
Gustaf for his long services to Swedes in Aus-
tralia. He came here as a watchmaker in 1887,
and was first secretary of the Brunswick A.L.P.
branch, in which capacity he worked with
Ramsay MacDonald and Tom Mann when they
visited Australia some 50 years ago.
In Parramatta, at 77, Sydney Davies, Town
Clerk there for 34 years and secretary of the
city’s 150th anniversary celebrations in 1938.
Hobbying with philately, he had one of the
finest collections in Australia.
In Sydney, at 45, Archibald Cripps Clark,
of the well-known Goulburn grazing family
and son of H. H. Cripps Clark, old-time
Bulletin contributor. He was a machine-
gunner in the Western Desert, moved to Eng-
land, and in a bombing raid on Southampton
docks suffered a spinal injury.
Aboard the Queen Mary, at 63, Edward C.
Dyason, one-time Melbourne sharebroker whose
mining-engineering and economic interests cul-
minated in his presiding over the Victorian
Chamber of Mines and the central council of
the Economic Society. He shifted to Buenos
Aires in 1941, and at the end was returning
from leading the Australian delegation at the
Montreal British Commonwealth Relations
Conference.
In Melbourne, at 78, Col. W. Suttor, who
left a grazing property in N.S.W. to become
chief-secretary of the Salvation Army (Eastern
and Southern Command). In between he had
served in England, and was in charge in Ceylon
before shifting to Melbourne.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Bo”: He leaned against a wall in the
sun in the precincts of Sydney’s Darling-
hurst court during the luncheon adjourn-
ment of the Quarter Sessions; his beetle-
browed, sloping forehead, and nose
with a list to starboard, set me plumbing
the depths of memory. I pinpointed him
at last: “Chippendale” Chiller, an old
criminal who’d been in nearly every jail
in the State for almost every crime in
the calendar. His disgruntled expression,
I thought, didn’t seem to sort with the
fact that this was a rare occasion when
he wasn’t in the dock. Just then another
warby-looking cove strolled up to him.
“ ’Struth, Chiller,” he said. “Y’ look as
“I Won all sorts of badges in the Girl Guides .”
if y’r loti ry ticket turned out t’ be a
‘blue’ —what’s bitin’ y’?” Chiller savagely
dug his heel into the turf. “You’d be
mad, top,” he growled for answer.
“Spare me days, I gotta see me ‘fence’
today, before ’e goes t’ Melbin, t’ c’lect
the oscar for that last job I done, an’
damme if I ain’t called up for jury
duty!”
♦ * * ♦
“Zake”: Sexagenarian flappers are ap-
pearing in ankle-strap shoes and cap-
sleeved blouses; men were courting
pneumonia in light tropical wear; there
wasn’t a council water-spraying truck to
be seen; underground air-conditioned
newsreel theatrettes were carrying more
than the usual run of patrons ; women
lugging home well-laden string-bags on
each arm were looking a bit crankier;
salads had shot up 200 p.c. in price and
growers, agents and fruiterers were com-
plaining that the prevailing low prices
for these lines would soon ruin them;
Commerce Minister Pollard was expres-
sing gratification that there was suffi-
cient ice-cream for the workers ; the beer
was off; an advance guard of 4,000,000
blowflies suddenly appeared. The signs
were unmistakable: Sydney’s first
summer-like day had arrived.
♦ * * ?|c
“Clooter”; Charity takes some peculiar
forms. When a Sydney racehorse-owner
heard that a totalisator-clerk who’d over-
paid a punter £149 10s. would have to
make the money up, he announced that
he would buy the unlucky chap a £5 win-
tote ticket on every one of his horses
that started in a race. He has already
bought the clerk one £5 ticket, but the
horse didn’t win. It’s a nice gesture, but
it depends too much on chance, since
the donor mightn’t land a winner for a
long time. Why not give the clerk a
fiver each time a horse starts? I know
this isn’t the sporting way arid possibly
the clerk likes it the way it is, but it’s
something like the habit of giving lottery
tickets as presents or rewards —the donor
feels virtuous, the recipient in nine cases
out of ten gets nothing but a dim chance
of winning a prize.
* * * *
“Elbow”: I had heard of Henry
Lawson’s portrait on the postage-stamp
being mistaken for that of Stalin, but
didn’t believe it until I heard a batch of
new Australians protesting to the clerk
at the post-office counter. “No, no! We
no want Joe. We want George,” They
got George in exchange for Joe, and
peace was restored.
* * * *
“Jasby”: Paper-searing letters in Army
mail (B. 12/10/’49)? One unit censor
thought he had grown out of blushing
until he struck a couple of passages in a
soldier’s letter home which made his hair
stand on end. No question of security
was involved, though he thought the
obscenity clauses of the postal regulations
might be. He sent for the man who had
written the letter and suggested, rather
diffidently, that a little redrafting might
be in order. The Digger refused to con-
sider it. He was, in fact, quite indignant
and challenged the officer to prove any
breach of security. Having gained that
point he insisted on his right to express
himself as he wished. “It’s my letter and
my missus,” he maintained, “and I’ll write
what I like.” The loot, feeling most un-
comfortable, then confessed that his
attitude was due to a reluctance to put his
signature on sqch a lurid epistle. “0.K.,”
said the Digg&*. “Gimme it back and
I’ll take it to thd padre. He'll sign it.”
“Carping”: In Neville Cardus’s
Autobiography is a most amusing account
of what he describes as a “midsummer
dream.” His dream gives a vivid descrip-
tion of a cricket-match played against a
village team by members of a team of
well-known men chosen by one of
Cardus’s friends. When the visitors had
dismissed five of the villagers they wanted
to know the score, but found that the
scorers and spectators had adjourned to
the pub, and that the only onlooker was
“» cow —and he gave our activities but
“Oh, Harold, isn't it realistic—it makes you feel so cold!"
a momentary eye when the ball fell near
him.” In lesser writers one would pass
this by, but in a writer of Cardus’s calibre
it must definitely be classed as a literary
“bull.”
♦ ♦ ♦ *
“Ague”: Dinty, fairly new to shunting,
was put on to help the head-shunter by
cutting off trucks, braking loose-running
rakes, giving a few signals and so on.
One evening at dusk he was seen clinging
to the rear truck of a large rake and
signalling to the driver of the shunting-
engine to proceed slowly into the dead-
end. Everything appeared to be going
fine; the trucks were slowly approaching
the dead-end, and Dinty had his hand-
lamp ready to switch from green to red.
A few yards from his destination he gave
the stop signal, but the trucks continued
onwards, and we heard the crash as they
went through the dead-end. Cursing the
driver for negligence he rushed up to give
him a piece of his mind —only to find
that the engine was standing about 100
yards away from the rake! Unknown to
Dinty the head-shunter had cut off the
rake from the engine—Dinty had been
signalling from a loose-running rake!
* * * *
“Cyril”: Interested in “Jemac’s” re-
marks on navigating, with “exact
mathematical calculation,” in reef-bound
areas (B. 5/10/’49). Just how such exact
calculation can determine a ship’s pro-
gress through areas marked on the chart
“foul water” he does not divulge. Many
of these places have not even the bigger
reefs marked on the chart, or perhaps have
merely a vague reference to “reefs re-
ported here, 1878.” Men with local know-
ledge, “navigating by eye,” are the only
ones able to take even small ships through
such waters. Of course latitudes and
longitudes and what-have-you are not yet
unnecessary, but in these “foul” areas
give me the skipper who knows them well
enough to do his navigating by eye.
* * * *
“Dalmore”: In connection with the
proposal that a boxing-control board
might be able to prevent fatalities in the
ring, or even decrease the number of
punch-drunks that boxing produces, one
thought arises. In what other trade or
profession can a man be forced to stop
work for the benefit of his health? If he
does not choose to accept the warnings
of his doctor, surely he can continue to
work, and no one can stop him. The only
valid exceptions I can think of are occu-
pations where other lives would also be
endangered.
* * * *
“Wacko”: It was only a minor offence,
the penalty a small fine, but the J.P.
was taking his job seriously, and before
announcing the penalty he delivered a
little homily on the gravity of breaking
the law. The Statutes lay open on the
desk before him, and he inadvertently
turned over a few pages. When he de-
cided that he had sufficiently impressed
the defendant he glanced down at the
page before him and announced: “This
offence carries as a deterrent the Death
Penalty.” The gasp that shook the court
could not compare with the tremor that
gripped the offender. There was an
audible whisper from the Clerk of Court
to the Bench, “He’s not charged with
Piracy." The Justice continued. “But
in view of your previous good character
the penalty will be a fine of £2, with
court fees 10s.”
* * * ♦
“Mullum”: The lighter side of a flood.
During the war an Air Force camp was
providing assistance to a flooded town.
A boat, in charge of a much-disliked
officer, had crossed a flooded road and
bumped, apparently against the gutter.
The officer stepped from the boat and
disappeared. When he regained his feet
the water was up to his shoulders. The
boat had bumped not the kerb but the
top of a post bearing the words “Bus
Stop.”
* * * *
“W.P.T.”: Expect a big falling-off in
the numbers of Scottish immigrants. In
the children’s section of the-“Ayrshire
Post” this recently appeared:
In Australia grows a tree which eats, or
rather mangles, men. The “Cannibal tree,”
as it is called, grows about ten feet high,
and looks rather like an enormous pine-
apple. There are strong leaves at the top
which form a kind of fringe to the tree.
They say that when one of the aborigines
wishes to end his life he just jumps down
upon one of these leaves, which immediately
closes upon him like a trap, mangling his
body. At any rate the natives find it very
handy when they want to kill an animal.
They simply toss it on top of the tree,
and the strong, strangling leaves crush it
to death.
Mr. Calwell’s Department of Information
had better get in touch with the “Post”
before Mr. Calwell’s Department of
Immigration does.
* * * *
“A.C.G.”: “B. A, Ker’s” experience
with the press photographer (B. 21/9/ ’49)
reminded me that after the Noojee fires
in Victoria a few years ago I was help-
ing to sort clothes for the sufferers when
a parson drifted in and started to chat
with us. Shortly afterwards a camera-
man entered and said he wanted to take
a few pictures. The parson doffed his
coat, picked up a sugar-bag of clothing,
poised it on his shoulder and was taken
in that pose. He then put on his coat and
departed. Next day the picture appeared
with the caption “The Reverend Mr.
Soandso does his bit for the victims of
the disastrous fires.”
* * * *
“North”: He buttonholed me in Adel-
aide’s Victoria-square, “Look at them
trees,” he murmured confidentially. “It’s
atomic action, see? They’re dying. ’
Then, adding with a dark look, “None
of us ordinary blokes know what the
scientists are up to with the rocket-range
and all.” He drifted off to tell any other
unwary individual his theory on the sickli-
ness of the council’s trees. I wonder just
what he’d have said if he’d remembered
the wonderful Moreton Bays the council
murdered some time ago.
* * * *
“J.J.A.”: The bank dropped a kindly
little note on my behalf in an effort to
obtain dollars to land in Panama. Permis-
sion obtained, I called at the bank to col-
lect them; the overseas cashier was
at lunch, but they promised to keep the
10 dollars out for me if I called at the
same time the following Monday. In the
meantime the pound was devalued, and I
lost a dollar and twenty cents to the
pound. And all because of the cashier’s
lunch!
A MUCKLE O’ SECRETS.
“The Minister for Defence, Mr. Dedman, who
thinks that manpower will not be important in the
next war, also considers that ‘our not being in-
vited [to the atomic energy talks of the U.S.,
U.K. and Canada] is not a denial of information,
and not distrust of this country.’ ”
“I’ll tell ye why they owerseas
Say nocht tae us o’ bombs,” said Deddy—
“We hae too mony mysteries
An’ secrets o’ our ain a’ready;
The things we knaw wad strike ye dumb —
Sae ferliful, and sae abhorrit,
That, as for yon Atomic Bomb,
I wad na gie a button for it.
“There’s puir wee Eddie’s Brisbane Line
That nane wul ever see,” said Deddy,
“An nane has seen sin’ auld lang syne:
At times I doot ’twas seen by Eddie;
That chiel has wambling in his wamb
Sic bogies as keeps mony worrit
Far waur than yon Atomic Bomb —
I wad na gie a button for it.
“There’s guid Ben Chifley’s Gowden Age
That never left his ain possession
Till, noo owd gowd’s become the rage,
He’s hockit it for a Depression—
But juist tae buy a Tory tomb—
An’ syne, ye ken, he may restore it:
Sae, as for yon Atomic Bomb,
I wad na gie a button for it.
“The brawest problem o’ them a’
Is how McKenna, our free-piller,
Dispenses na ane formula
Nor yet wi’ Social Serrrvice siller;
Nae doot, wi’ a’ his cauld aplomb,
Mac-dinna-Kenna wul ignore it
As I do yon Atomic Bomb —
I wad na gie a button for it.
“Sae there, ye see, we’re fu’ the noo
O’ secrets an’ mysterious learrnin’:
Tho’ muckle o’t may na be true,
That’s mair severe on the discernin’;
The hiddy-giddy drives us numb,
Sic twists we mak’, we canna endure it:
It’s waur than ane Atomic Bomb —
I wad na gie a button for it.”
N.S.W.
S WILLIAM.


“Heresone”: In his list of words and
phrases we owe to the Duke of Wel-
lington (B. 14/9/’49) “Pitt St.” omits the
most famous. Tommy Atkins himself. As
a young officer Wellesley was so struck
:by the courage of a dying private in his
j unit that the man’s name stuck in his
memory. Many years later, when he was
I boss-cocky of the War Office, a new and
more detailed attestation form was
presented for his approval. As a guide
to the prospective recruit, a specimen
form was filled in and printed. Against
the word “Name” on this form, by the
Duke’s own orders, was entered “Thomas
Atkins.”
* * Hi *
“Blue P.”: Like Hazlitt, I don’t object
to seeing “ruins, aqueducts, pictures, in
company,” and, I might add, the tombs
of die famous. These “are intelligible
matters, and will bear talking about.” So
when I went in company to an outer-
Sydney golf-course to play that game
which, had they indulged in it, would
certainly have stirred Hazlitt and his con-
temporaries, I heard with deep interest
that in one corner of the place was a
“historic grave.” Three of us immediately
sought it. There was the headstone and
there the memorial-lines —“Here lies
Chester, winner of the Melbourne Cup,
1877.” Well, lacking a Stonehenge or a
Westminster, I suppose we must do the
best we can.
* * * *
“J.S.”: Who would have thought it
could come to this? Dropping into the
local barbery for a haircut —at an
exorbitant cost for a dwindling thatch —I
found the groom dressing the tresses of
a blonde. Flopping into a seat, I picked
up the reading-matter supplied for the
edification of waiting customers, half a
dozen copies of rival flapper magazines.
When I first began paying tribute to the
“Now DON'T show an inferiority complex
when you speak to the Waiters , George.”
barber the “Police Gazette” and “Pink
’un” were the fare provided, and no
woman would have dared to enter.
* * * *
“B. A, Ker”: If I’d been less savagely
intent on trying to make an ancient old
typewriter forget its years I would never
have left -a hot teapot standing on a
plastic tray. As it was —Bang! A .303
bullet couldn’t have made more noise in
that small room, nor could it have scared
me more. But whatever it did to my
nervous system the shock certainly stirred
my memory up! I was a boy in my
early ’teens again, boiling the billy against
a big sandstone boulder in the wild,
rugged country south of Yerranderie
(N.S.W.). Darkness was not far off, and
Dad had not returned. Earlier a shot
had cracked and echoed from behind one
of the skyscraping peaks, but it sounded
like a heavier-calibred rifle than Dad’s.
The billy boiled, and I debated whether
to make the tea, A series of coo-ees got
no reply, and I began to grow alarmed.
It was very easy for anybody to get lost
amongst those gorges and ridges. Per-
haps I should stoke up a big fire as a
beacon? Perhaps . . . Bang! I don’t
know whether I heard the explosion first
or felt the wind from the missile. But
the billy was upside down and rolling
down the slope when the awful thought
struck me —somebody had taken a shot at
me! It seemed that my legs remained
paralysed for 10 minutes before I was
able to leap for cover. William S. Hart
was my cowboy hero at the time, but I
didn’t feel a bit like him as I crouched
behind a rock waiting for the next shot—
and dreading that the maniac might
sneak up from behind. When Dad finally
appeared through the gloom he found a
frightened boy pointing a .410 shotgun
that wavered almost as much as the
challenging voice. And that was how I
learnt the truth of the bush-lore: “Don’t
light fires against rocks —the heat will
cause lumps to fly like shrapnel.”
* * * *
“S.S.”: He found a new typewriter in
the clubrooms and decided to write a
letter on it, never having typed before.
He picked away with one finger, then
paused, muttering, “Corrimal —Corrimal —
C-o-r-r —it’s double T’ all right, but”
Then he turned and yelled “Hey, Bill,
where’s the other ruddy ‘r’ on this thing?”
* * * *
“Exdig”: ’Tis nice to know that the
tradition of cobbership is carried on in
our battalion from one war to another,
but as the ambulance hurtled me towards
the “Finest Hospital in the World” (my
subsequent experience there has justified
the eulogisms of the driver, who had been
an inmate for nine months) its spirit gave
me a breathless few moments. The driver
casually asked me what battalion I had
been in in the First War, and when I
said “First” he let the wheel go as he
turned with outthrust hand and a whoop
of “Put it there, cobber! I was in the
2/ Ist Battalion in this war! You’re the
first Ist Battalion man I’ve driven out.”
His enthusiasm was heartening, but I was
glad when he grabbed the wheel again.
On my next ambulance jaunt I’ll get the
battalion exchanges over before the drive
commences —just in case.
* * * *
“Sackville St.”: Cubbies (B. 17/8/’49)?
Necessary adjuncts to cubbies, in my
youth, were a box of matches, a frying-
pan, a lump of fat and half
a dozen spuds. Why we
never started a raging
bushfire I’ve often won-
dered since, for we would
blissfully light our fire in
a clearing about Bft. across,
with scrub all round and
the half-dried bushes of the
cubby 2ft. or 3ft. away.
But there must be a special
angel detailed off to guard
kids. If there hadn’t been
I and a couple of cronies
would have died of poison-
ing—even if we’d escaped
being burnt to death.
Seated in our cubby we
had consumed the “ground-
berries”—small, sweet
seeds of a little ground
creeper that grew on
gravelly slopes—while we
peeled the spuds. Then
the fire was lit for the big
event. Several times lick-
ing flames caught the fat
alight, but apart from a
few minor burns no harm
was done. In due course
a debate arose as to
whether the dish was suffi-
ciently cooked. Solemnly
each connoisseur speared
a lump of blackened spud
with one of Mum’s best
knives and chewed judici-
ally. Before the verdict
could be cast a flame sud-
denly licked up, and the
knife handle, carelessly left
on the pan rim, burst into a flaring, outsize
Roman candle. In the rescue operations
eyebrows were singed and hands burnt —
but the chips were saved, though some-
what damaged. Mum’s knife had no
handle left —what hadn’t burnt had
melted and blended with the horrible mess
in the pan. It made the most foul-tasting,
bitter sauce I’ve ever secretly squirmed
at, but not one of us would admit that
th ey weren’t “The bonzerest chips I ever
tasted.”
it -rr * *
t : ® unec * treasure (B. 14/9/’49)?
1 wonder if anyone ever found a dozen of
beer, two bottles of Scotch and half a
dozen ginger-ale under the golden sands
of East Point, Darwin’s favorite picnic-
spot. At a moonlight picnic there years
ago the liquid refreshment began to show
“Dad’s much cheaper than an electric dish-washer ."
signs of exhaustion, and one frugal soul
decided to bury a reserve stock to avoid
the inevitable drought. He did this so
successfully that when the time came for
exhumation he was unable to find his
cache. Thirsty, frenzied men searched
long and thoroughly without success.
Next morning I went out with a long-
pointed steel shaft, but the tide had risen
and smoothed out the beach. As far as I
know the treasure is still there.
* * * *
“Uco”: Ships designed to save tonnage-
dues (B. 12/10/ ’49)? At the beginning
of the century a hideous type of vessel
called the turret-ship was designed by
some marine architect who had lost all
sense of beauty and proportion. It—
the type didn’t merit the pronoun “she”
—had straight sides and its hull bulged
out on each side below the waterline.
When running light or in ballast the
bulging part was well above the surface,
and it was then that the monstrosity
looked its worst. I fancy the purpose
was to cut down on Suez Canal dues,
but if that is so perhaps someone can
tell me why Mcllwraiths had one, the
Komura—unless it was to establish a
claim to owning the ugliest ship on the
Australian coast.
* * * ♦
“Hyanlo”; The messenger-boy who
brought the wife a telegram containing
birthday greetings insisted he had to wait,
as it was a reply-paid wire. Nothing
would shake him from this belief, and in
justification of his insistence he pointed
to the envelope, on which was printed the
slogan “A reply-paid wire is a courteous
means of ensuring a prompt reply.” We
had a good grin at his youthful ignor-
ance, but one point has the wife wonder-
ing ; If the lad had brought her a telegram
a few years back printed with the war-
time slogan “Idle chatter sinks ship?,”
would he have denounced her as a spy,
or merely spread the rumor of a great
naval disaster?
* * * *
“Petrie”: Reading in an overseas
magazine that elegant week-end cottages
could be built with old railway sleepers,
a city friend of mine decided to try out
the idea. He went along to the local
railway-superintendent, and bought a lot
of timber from a condemned viaduct.
His shack completed, the owner left for
the city considerably pleased with him-
self. Six months later he returned for
a holiday—to see his picturesque week-
ender a sagging, caved-in ruin. That
viaduct had been condemned because of
white-ants.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: That Gyppo idea of
building concrete igloos, using a bal-
loon as a mould, may find a wider appli-
cation in the atomic age ; the half-sphere,
being a combination of arches, will
offer the greatest resistance to overhead
explosions. Further, that form has no
protrusions to be knocked off. A
city 500 years hence may present a
mushroomlike appearance, consisting of
a multitude of stunted concrete domes
barely protruding from the soil. Any-
way, the idea of using a half-balloon as
the interior mould for concrete igloos
did not originate with the Gyppo—Edi-
son suggested it 50 years ago when the
great prairie States of America were
being built over. And the balloon process
has been often used on culvert jobs in
Australia.
* * * *
“8.A.K.”: I’ve got to make a de-
cision—a vital decision ; one that, no
matter which way I decide, can’t fail to
land me in a ton of trouble—and all be-
cause I saw a young fellow fall off a push-
bike. He was a Government employee
going directly home from work, so he
was covered by workers’ compensation.
As the only witness I was requested to
fill in the official printed form. The first
questions were easy: “How did the
accident happen?” Well, loose gravel on
the side of a road will often cause a skid.
“What time was it: Hours....
Minutes ” I was able to answer that
correctly. “Did you actually see the acci-
dent happen?” I did —and if the young
fellow hadn’t been so big I’d have busted
with laughter, for the old Keystone
coppers never filmed a funnier buster.
“How far away were you?” That was a
very simple one. But this is the one that
is putting the circles under my eyes:
“What did he say?” Now, what can I
do? Commit perjury? Swear a mis-
statement —and on a Government form!
Tell the truth? Yes—and get myself
lumbered for sending obscenities through
the post!
• * * * $
“Pawang”: The current craze among
girls for wearing enormous glasses has
received a knock from Sydney Addison,
president of the Victorian Optical Associ-
ation. He says that if spectacle-frames
became much wider they could do to
humans what blinkers do to horses—
eliminate side vision. He was thinking of
traffic hazards, but there is a worse danger
in the damage done to eyesight by dark-
ened lenses. The human eye was developed
in animals under conditions of strongest
sunlight, and dark glasses are merely
crutches. The indirect lighting of modern
commerce further helps the weakening
process; if the fashion continues it won’t
be long before we have a half-blind
generation.
* * * *
“Niloc”: I am always moved by the
brilliant push-button work when news-
reels show what seems to be the normal
way of American opening ceremonies.
An important person seated in his office
on one side of the country declares “this
great dam open,” and presses the button
on his desk. The audience is taken to
the other side of the continent where they
see the first water flow. However, I find
from research that this profound faith
Americans have in their push-buttons is
a fairly recent thing—back in 1896 they
had their misgivings. Chinese statesman
Li Hung-chang, on a visit to U.S.A., was
vastly impressed by the speed he had
heard attributed to an American fire-
engine when answering a call, so a
demonstration was arranged. A press-
button and dais were set up in the main
street and the visitor was invited to sum-
mon the brigade. As a safeguard, civic-
minded folk had posted themselves along
the half-mile route to be taken by the en-
gine, and just in case the button failed
they were to pass along the call by hand-
signals. As Li Hung-chang reached for
the button these signals were started, but
he paused and asked a few more ques-
tions, so that fully a minute passed before
he really pressed the thing. Less than 20
seconds later the engine came around the
corner. “Amazing!” said Li Hung-chang.
A PRAISEWORTHY CHANGE.
“Paris has ordained straight hair for ■women in
1950.”
The awful thought that they may be deprived
Of that delight of getting slowly sizzled
The while their crowning glory’s being frizzled
While tight, synthetic waves are being contrived
Must surely fill our girls with black despair.
None disobeys whene’er the tyrant Paris
Issues her edict. Isobelle and Clarice
Next year must sport uncorrugated hair.
Women whom Nature lavishly endowed
With locks which fall in billowing curls
delightful,
Must soon regard their hair as “looking
frightful,”
Of which they’ll be ashamed, rather than proud.
Where once they’d very comfortably crowed
O’er sisters who perforce coughed up their
guineas
For non-electrics, now they’ll feel like ninnies
When paying to get theirs straightened, a la
mode.
Invariably, ’tis said, the woman pays,
Though, as to costs of being in the fashion —
A thing that is her one abiding passion—
Her lord is useful. Well, he’s sure to praise
The hair-do change; of that make no mistake.
Relief from seeing her fibre, all luck-lustre.
Of butterfly-clips and bobby-pins a cluster,
;Will be to him a badly-needed break.
N.S.W.
S.W.K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Quorn”: Is “Orni” (B. 21/9/’49) one
of the birds whose “lives are too deadly
serious” for a spot of fun? Admittedly,
the tribe work pretty hard for a living,
at least in the morning and evening shifts,
but most of them like a long smoke-oh.
Has “Orni” never seen swallows and
wood-swallows battle up against a gale
for the sheer joy of riding the wind
down at dazzling speed in slicing curves?
Nor seen that mighty hunter, the kestrel,
take time off to thumb rides on ascending
wind-currents? And how about William
Wagtail, who spends as much time stunt-
ing for fun as he does fly-catching?
Even the dignified old pelican obviously
enjoys flight, and nobody can tell me that
a pelican swims only on business or for
safety. Last of all, and most of all,
has “O.” been too preoccupied with city
sparrows to watch a flock of galahs at
play? For sheer air-mastery and joy
in the process, those superb feathered
acrobats take the jet-propelled biscuit.
“Solitude”: With the baldies bedded
down, we mooched into the little town-
ship. The beer was off and the place
looked dead. Then we learned of a
euchre tournament about to start, over
at the Mechanics’. “Why don’t you go
and take a hand for a bit?” I suggested
to Seventyfiver. “Me? Aw, cripes, ler—lI —
er—I dunno. Ain’t played for ages.
Used t’ like it awright. Remember how
me ’n’ Sandy used t’ play on Sat’dee
nights? Reckoned it was luck, Sandy did,
and wouldn’t b’lieve it was the way y’
played ’em. Yair, I could go, I s’pose.
You cornin’ over?” “No,” I told him.
“I’ll drift back to camp. See you later.”
Must have been going on eleven when
he came crashing through the dead
undergrowth with the stealth of a mad
bull. He started hunting for his
blankets. “Have a win?” I asked.
There was a grunt from the darkness.
“Aw, most of it is luck, anyway,” came
his disgusted voice. “An’ them players
was —aw, get off. Blue, blast y’—them
players was that damn’ quick. I couldn’t
do a thing right all night.” Followed
several minutes’ private argument with
the mong for possession of the blankets.
Then, “Cripes, Sol,” I heard as I dozed
off, “two bowers, ace and king o’ trumps,
an’ still I got euchred!”
* * * ♦
“Wippegong”; There has been a
schism in our little town. Don’t know
what caused it, but all the bottle-swallows
have turned Presbyterian. Last year they
built —well, somewhere else; but a fort-
night ago they came in a flock, and not
only did they peg out a neat line of claims
with little pellets just below the eave on
the eastern wall of the kirk, but they are
gathering their mud exclusively from the
big puddle by MacGregor’s gate. One
nest was progressing faster than the rest,
and was an unusually wide bowl for
fairy-martins; then, just when the shape
began to draw into the bottle-neck —wad
ye believe it?—a bluidy Sassenach of a
sparrow tried to fill it wi’ straw! The
elders flung him oot. Though rugged on
the outside, these nests are smooth within,
especially on the floor, mainly because the
wee birds always fly into the nest with
their mud, then turn round and face out-
“ Beer’s off!”
wards to do their building, so the bottom
of the nest is trodden flat during the
course of construction. Entry to the
finished bottle is by beautiful timing;
the wings close and the bird lands in a
hole built to fit and shoots straight in.
The nests are half-done now, but Mac’s
puddle is drying fast, so I’m waitng to see
whose mud will be chosen next and whose
disdained.
* * * *
“Bo”: Dad had come back from the
horse-sale in the township, and was just
about to give his new purchase a feed
when Tom and Steve came up. “Well,
what do you think of him, me boy?”
asked Dad of his eldest son, shrewdly
getting in with a leading question.
“Pretty good bit of horseflesh, eh?” Tom
walked slowly around the animal, mak-
ing a silent inspection ; then without q
word he beckoned to young Steve and
together they made for the house, leaving
Dad perplexed. In a few minutes they
staggered out carrying the hallstand.
They put it down, and Tom called out to
ask his sire where the handsaw was.
“What the blazes are y’ going to do with
that?” Dad called back. Tom pointed to
the pegs stuck out from the top of the
piece of old-fashioned furniture. “To
take these off, of course,” he replied
solemnly. “We’ll have no use for two
hat-racks round the joint now, will we?”
“ Let's know when you’ve reached the coffee and liqueurs, will you?”
“Standby”: All the way across the
Indian Ocean on our way to the Middle
East the ship was full of rumors and
guesses as to our destination. Some tipped
Colombo as our first port of call; others
favored Bombay. Ceylon was about three
days’ steaming ahead when Snow, the
furphy king, was detailed as ship’s
orderly-room runner for the day, and in
that capacity he overheard the C.O. tell
the adjutant there would be 12 hours’
leave for all troops in Colombo. Wait-
ing for the outburst of jeers and scoffing
to die down after he bad duly announced
it, he asked, “Any of youse like to bet
on it?” Even money that Snow was
wrong was always a good bet, and he
was rushed. As the news spread and
customers poured in Snow bought a
writing-pad to record the transactions.
He would have cleaned up, too, only for
the M.O. reporting an outbreak of
dysentery—nothing very ■ serious but
enough to put the ship into quarantine.
When I left the unit 12 months later Snow
was still paying off his debts. He’d long
since lost all interest in rumors.
* * * *
“S.E.”: The gipsies had been camped
below the house for a week or more.
Dad had run into one or another of them
several times, but their presence didn’t
disturb him. The only thing that did was
the fowls, which had taken to squawking
during the nights, and half a dozen had
disappeared. Fox, Dad decided, and re-
solved to do something about it some
time. Maybe it was lack of sleep made
him mistake the number of fat lambs he
counted into the yard overnight for sale,
for the following day he was one short.
“Gripes, you’ve been getting down on the
veg’tables lately, Mum,” he frowned a
few days later. “That patch of carrots
on the creek is nearly done already.”
Mum didn’t know how she could have
cooked so many, nor could she recall
using the last of the apples that had been
stored in the chaff-shed. Next, it was
the dogs that were in strife. “They’ve
dragged them two good fox-skins away
somewhere.” Dad growled. “I was
going to sell ’em. Gripes, I just put ’em
in the feed-box last night, or.. .or some-
where. Trouble is, I ain’t sure. Got that
much t’ do I f’get things. Wonder if I
c’d get one o’ them blokes from the
gipsy camp to work for me for a few
days.” But the gipsies were either re-
covering from mysterious illnesses or
sickening for one. However, one of them
agreed to go into town for Dad and get
him a tin of axle-grease. “Y’ know,
Mum, six bob a tin’s a lot f’r axle-grease
t’ go up since the day before yest’d’y,”
the old man murmured later, staring at
the change in his hand. “Well, I ain’t
ever had cause to think that store bloke
ain’t honest. Must be risin’ costs, I
s’pose. Yair, that’s it, I suppose.”
* * * *
“Old-timer”: The whole district knew
what Long Tom intended to do to Harry
Dale the first time they met, so on that
Saturday afternoon, as Tom sat brooding
on the hotel verandah, people kept watch-
ing the hill road. There was a ripple of
excitement as Harry’s utility came
in view and whirled into town. He
pulled up under the peppers near the
store, got out, shed his coat and rolled up
his sleeves. One or two spoke to
him and he answered briefly. On the
pub verandah, a hundred yards away.
Long Tom, already coatless, rose. He
glared towards the store, shut his teeth
tightly, looked round quickly at the knot
of men who’d gathered, then silently and
blackly he stepped down into the road.
He walked slowly, as one who goes to
an inevitable climax, his bare, hard arms
swinging bronzed in the sun. Behind him
walked the crowd, also silent, their eyes
darting from Tom to the oncoming Dale.
Dale’s thickset body seemed to be
slightly crouched as he came, his head
was drawn down into his broad shoulders,
his eyes were narrowed and he caressed
the knuckles of his left hand with his
right. The men and boys behind him
were as, silent as the rest, and as watchful.
Even the usual dogs forgot their usual
business and trotted with pricked ears,
aware that something ominous was in the
air. Off at some distance women and
small children suddenly ceased their
chatter and watched the converging
groups with bright eyes. Over the whole
township there hung a waiting silence,
like that which precedes a thunderstorm.
Onward they came, the distance lessening
with painful slowness, the tension mount-
ing with each stride. Ten yards, five, four,
two —the followers paused, breaths held
and eyes fixed in a unanimous stare.
Then “G’day, Harry.” “ ’Day, Long’un ;
hot, ain’t it!” “Yair.” And they had
passed, Dale going to the pub, Tom to
the store, while the breathless crowd
gaped stupidly at each other.
* * * *
“Hoppy”: “B. A. Ker’s” par. (B.
5/10/’49) on the technique of casting a
line recalls a method of fishing used by
some Indian tribes, for which the only
skill required is to be able to catch and
keep alive the first two fish. The rest is
easy; just to tie them head to tail and
fling them back into the water. In their
frantic efforts to escape they swim in
circles so fast the other fish around get
so dizzy they float to the surface, where
they can be easily netted.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”; Ted, the abo.
stockman, asked me to put a film in a
new box-camera he’d bought. In less
than 10 minutes he had used it up and
got me to send it in to Townsville to
have it developed. Back came the nega-
tives, all solid black, with a note
saying the camera probably had a hole in
it. The camera looked all right to me.
It was from Ted’s gin, Nellie, that I
gathered the reason for the failure. “After
Ted workem picture along camera, Ted
and me go one time along pantry, close
door, close window. Ted, he takem long
fella film out of paper and he look. Place
all dark. He see nothing. So Ted, he
open door and hold film, all the same,
along sun and look. Film he no got
picture yet. So Ted he put fella film
asleep along paper same as before.”
* * * ♦
“Mabuiag”: The inhabitants of one of
Torres Straits’ larger islands were appalled
at the physical deterioration of its pigs.
Litters were fewer and the individuals
which survived were all runts, A moving
appeal to Authority resulted in the Gov-
ernment’s unbelting to the tune of £lOO
for the purchase of blood-stock from one
of Queensland’s stud farms to revivify
the island’s herds. Brought to Thursday
Island, the porcine aristos were cared for
like millionaires’ children until a boat left
for their new home. Their arrival there
was hailed with delight and enthusiasm.
The occasion obviously called for a very
special feast and, after all, what better
to grace the board than the very best
porkers the island had to offer? Pro-
testing Government authorities had to be
forcibly restrained in canvas suits, but
the islanders were emphatic they had
never tasted better pig before. They
were assured they never would again,
either,
* * * *
“Tarbush”: Fire by friction (B.
21/9/’49)? Here’s my method. First I
choose a sheltered spot behind a rocky
outcrop. It may even be necessary on
an open plain to put a couple of bushes
together to make a break. When there
are no bushes a shallow circular pit is
better than nothing. Next I take an
armful of dried grass or buckbush,
arrange it carefully so that air can get
to it, and lay a pattern of twigs on top.
Lastly I place a few larger sticks, with
perhaps a couple of big ones at the side.
Then I sit down carefully, with my hat
.held as a shelter if there’s much wind,
and, taking a short cylinder of wax and
cotton tipped with a chemical mixture,
I draw it sharply over a gibber or my
boot sole and apply the instantaneous
flame to the kindling. And I bet my
damper ’ll be out of the ashes and on
the tucker-box before “Moujik” raises
his seventh blister.
MR. AND MRS. DOVE.
Two doves grey,
Looking their best;
Well-fed 'they,
And both well-dressed.
Two doves portly,
Most proper, too,
Bowing and scraping
As doves do:
Gentleman, lady,
Getting on in life,
Walking in the garden:
Mr. Dove and wife.
Mr. Dove, Mrs. Dove,
Children all wed,
Elsewhere living,
Family spread.
Garden lovely,
Late afternoon,
Sunlight slanting,
Sun down soon.
Mr. Dove, Mrs. Dove,
Up in the tree,
Still more or less in love,
He and she.
Two doves comfortable,
Sitting in the sun,
Both perching closely.
As they’ve always done:
Fixing his necktie,
Straightening his vest;
Adjusting her necklet,
Smoothing her chest.
Mr. Dove to Mrs. Dove:
“Kiss me, pet!”
Mrs. Dove to Mr. Dove:
“Never! Not yet!
In-front of cheeky minas,
And common sparrows, too!
There’s a time for everything;
There’s a time to coo!”
Mr. Dove, Mrs. Dove,
Afternoon rest,
Nodding together,
Head on breast.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


“Mat’s Mate”: We left the train at
Leongatha one night, and were picked
up by a farmer and driven over dark
hills and dales into the far bush. Presently
he showed us a hut and left us. As we
made up our naps I noticed that Mat was
rather silent and abstracted, and chipped
him about it. “Well,” he said, “every-
thing’s so hot an’ dry I just can’t get over
a feelin’ we must ha’ got on the wrong
train or somethin’.” I assured him that
we were in the right place and we hopped
into bunk. In the grey dawn I awoke.
Rain was drumming on the tin roof and
at a window stood Mat, peering into the
wet dawn. “We got the right train,” he
said bitterly. “This is ruddy Gippsland
all right.”
♦ % % sfc
“8.A.K.”; For sheer hypocritical in-
consistency the average Australian fight-
fan must surely merit world-rating. He
has never been in a ring and wild horses
couldn’t drag him in one, but he knows
everything about “the game”—particu-
larly how slightly punches hurt. The
amazing fortitude with which he bears a
boxer’s punishment is only exceeded by
his contempt for dingoes who turn a fight
in over such trifles as gashed eyebrows
or broken ribs. Misguided young men
who try to demonstrate that boxing could
be a scientific art comparable with fencing
are vociferously corrected and their yellow
streaks identified. When two young
heroes turn on a bout that would have
delighted Nero he shows his apprecia-
tion by tossing a coin into the ring, and
reckons he has treated ’em pretty hand-
somely. There is a ring adage: “Three
‘showers,’ then the rathouse” ; but why
go into that? On an average of one every
18 months a boxer dies as the result of
a bout. If the lad was only a prelim,
boy the fight-fan dismisses the tragedy
With: “Bad luck about young Whatshis-
name, eh?” But when the unfortunate
young athlete was a topliner he looks
around for a scapegoat. “The ref. should
have stopped the fight.” This in spite of
the fact that the speaker was on his feet
at the time yelling for the k. 0.! Or:
“The doctor shouldn’t have let him fight
—he must’ve been crook before he went
in.” Strange logic in view of the often-
repeated statement: “When Soanso hits
’em it’s like being kicked by a horse.”
How could a kick from a horse injure a
man’s head? But the fan never quotes
the Mexican boxer who, after demonstrat-
ing to the best in Australia that boxing
can be a science that masters primitive
fighting, said: “Australians are slug-
happy. The crowds want only blood and
slug.” Of course the average fight-fan
will indignantly deny the charge—which
should lend weight to my opening sen-
tence.
* * * *
“Nota Bene”: Barbecues (B. 28/9/’49)?
Late in 1944 our unit was about to cele-
brate the fifth anniversary of its forma-
tion, so the C.O. decided to do it in style
with beer and a barbecue. Of the 350
regimental numbers in camp, one freak
frankly confessed he knew nothing about
it; of the rest, all but three were only
theoretical experts on their own admis-
sion, but were confident they could handle
the job; the three self-styled practical
experts were given a free hand, plus
enough unsought advice from the
theoretical experts to fill a library. A
huge fire was lit in a pit, and the spitted
bullock suspended over the subsequent
coals. The only unhappy faces in camp
were those belonging to the several
inmates of the “boob,” who had to keep
the beast turning, at least once each half-
hour, day and night for four days. But
before the big night arrived it became
increasingly evident something had gone
wrong ; inspection revealed that the beast
was burnt to a cinder in parts, while
the rest was raw and “blown.” By
direction of the C. 0., and under the dis-
gusted gaze of the outsider, who still
knew nothing about barbecues, three red-
faced experts blasphemously buried the
decomposing carcass in the pit, then joined
their erstwhile labor-gang in the boob.
The charge: “Conduct to the prejudice of
good order and military discipline,” of
course. But the celebration was not
altogether spoilt; the beer was good, and
plentiful.
* * * *
“Zake”: The hand, who had often
boasted of how he could “land a tree on
a two-bob piece,” was given the job of
felling the big dead bluegum which was
being riddled by white-ants. He marked
out the exact position it would fall, away
from the sheds and down the paddock,
then set to work. About an hour later
“Oil at fourteen feet!”
Mum Cranney was just taking a pumpkin
[ rom ‘ h u root <>' the feed-shed when she
heard 'he. crack »I the tree going and
gave a shriek of horror as she saw the big
sum as it swayed and came apparently
straight for the shed. The ti ee crashed
between the feedshed and the fowlshe ,
mssing both miraculously As, white and
shaken, Mum got down off the stepladder,
T* T”*" 8 s ° me >!amei«
f> u *i> ld f ' he kitchen-door, got to his fee
“S 088 *° wher f hand, stdl
g* b i g ‘SSS 5 )
stupid sod, failin’’ertathJopposite di’rec-
a £ , rackoned . wou l<£lcripesi the
flami >. hens are h i a f ers ’ now
wi(h pimltf . em off mo s re ,/ e scaritf
dayli J hts out of , mr
** * *
“Bad Australian”: When Tommy the
Hermit came in and collected the bonus
on hi s dingo-scalps and crow-heads he
se t out on his customary pub-crawl, in
due course landing into the lock-up.
when the constable got back to his office
he found a note from old Mrs. Dawson
demanding prompt and effective action
against the scoundrel who had pinched
her fine Angora billygoat. About
sundown the constable’s offsider came
j n a nd was sent off to investigate.
He found the animal running with
otto Schmidt’s flock about a mile
f rC m the town, and when questioned
otto explained, “I neffer pinch der pletty
"I don’t like geitlin' Wet either, girls!”
goat. I find him togedder mit mine goats
—he iss fine big fella, andt I inkouritch
him to stay by mine blace andt gon-
dinue der goot vork of imbroofing der
breet, vot too schmall iss alretty.” The
investigator hauled the goat off to the
station, unlocked the door of the boob
and pushed William in, not noticing
that it was already occupied. Some time
later the Hermit woke from a drunken
sleep to find himself in semi-darkness
with a pair of malevolent green eyes
glaring at him through the half-light.
When he attempted to rise he was
promptly attacked by the intruder. Reach-
ing out to ward it off he made contact
with a long, wiry beard which he grabbed
with both hands, yelling for help at the
same time. There followed a desperate
and protracted struggle, the Hermit
hanging on for dear life and his opponent
straining every nerve to break his hold.
The Hermit was on the verge of collapse
when the door swung open and the con-
stable rushed in and stopped the riot.
* * * *
“Billy T.”: I wonder if Unk White,
whose tightrope-walker was last seen
dancing toward disaster (B. 5/10/’49),
ever knew my grandfather. On his wild
Gippsland selection there was a grand
swimming-hole, but to reach it you had
to cross a log high above the creek. Old
cobbers from town sometimes came up,
and Grandpa set himself out to give
them a great time; but whenever a swim
was first suggested he always sent one
of the boys scooting ahead with a tin
of dripping to ensure that the visitors
made their contribution to the fun.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: The first open season
for wallaby in three years along Tassie’s
north-west coast and off-lying islands has
resulted in only 25 per cent of the normal
number of skins being taken. So far
only 10,000 have been branded at Burnie,
and because of the dry, mild winter the
fur is poor. The best haul was on 23,000-
acre uninhabited Hunter Island, where
John Shires got 2000. But they are still
there. Fishermen are making too much
money these days to transport skins from
island beaches.
sjc * *
“Blime”: Ted was having rotten luck
with his trapping. Every morning he
walked his line, only to find that the
rabbits had legged and gone. He put it
down to the frosty nights, but was
puzzled that, though he’d lost a couple
of hundred rabbits, his dog never caught
a three-legged one in the paddock. Then
came a night mild and warm, and Ted
worked his line hopefully. The first
three traps held paws only. The next
two brought him a couple of quarter-
grown kittens, and the next four nothing
but toes. Ted couldn’t believe it. He
sat on a rock and surveyed the trapline
thoughtfully. Something was wrong.
That morning he took great care, re-
setting only in sand-patches and stretches
of bare or loose soil, and the following
morning close inspectidn revealed a
footprint near the second trap. Ted
said nothing. That night he set the
alarm clock, and three hours before
dawn took a heavy stockwhip and dis-
appeared in the direction of his line.
What happened next he won’t say; but
Happy Willie hasn’t sold any skins to the
buyer this week, nor can he sit down
with comfort.
* * * *
“Rooster”: Size of piscatorial gullets
(B. 28/9/’49) can be very deceiving. A
whalebone whale has a mouth large
enough to hold two or three men, yet
its gullet is so narrow that the creature
couldn’t even swallow a herring. The
sperm whale could take a full-sized man
for a trip down its alimentary canal;
porpoises, seals, walruses and octopuses
are included in the menu —all swallowed
whole.
* * * *
“Betcha”: You can’t beat jumbucks
for finding new and novel ways to
commit suicide. It seems the old tricks
of falling down washouts, skidding their
legs under logs, dashing into the boggiest
places in the paddock as soon as they
are too weak to get out again, and rolling
themselves in barbed-wire fences are
getting a bit tame. Had one recently
that jammed herself into the fork of a
low bush and stopped there, and another
that took off from a creek ledge and
landed wrong-side-up in a deep pool.
Last summer several in the home pad-
dock found they could do it by shoving
their heads in between the posts and the
wire of a Cyclone fence and forgetting
to pull them out again. No doubt their
mugs were out of the hot sun behind
the posts, but there was plenty of other
shade in the paddocks. But the brainest
effort goes to the old woolly that climbed
on a giant log, shoved one hoof into a
small crevice on top, and jumped off.
Added to the fact that they’ve adopted
every known complaint, plus a few for
which there seems no legitimate excuse,
this job of sheep-raising can be truly
apoplectic.
* * * *
“Old Bushman”; Though there’s
scarcely a homestead in south-east Aus-
tralia that hasn’t a pair of mudlarks living
about its precincts, no birds interfere
with humans less. So the other day when
I caught one of these dainty black-and-
white fliers in a trap I got a surprise.
Both the captive and his mate, waiting
patiently by, were very quiet until I
released the trap’s spring ; then they both
dive-bombed me, and the ungrateful
fowl kept it up till I went inside.
* * * *
“Pongo”: “Trim” (B. 31/8/ ’49) knows
what he’s talking about when he says he’s
never seen bulloaks anywhere but in
hungry country. They flourish in the
interiors of N.S.W. and Queensland, but
I’ve never heard of them sprouting in
the good grasslands of Victoria. One of
the major mysteries of timberland is why
bulloak (Casuarina luchmanii), probably
the most beautifully-marked of all Aus-
tralian timbers, has not been sufficiently
appreciated by furniture-makers. Hard
it admittedly is, but it’s not difficult to
work, it takes polish well, and, kiln-dried
by modern processes, it could be depended
on to stay .put when assembled into furni-
ture.
“Helldud”: “B. A, Ker” errs when he
says that unless termites can contact the
earth at least once every 24 hours they
are settled (B. 28/9/’49). A nest of them
were leisurely gnawing the inside out of
a wooden punt moored 25 yards offshore
until we smothered ’em with creosote. It
isn’t the earth they must contact to
survive, but moisture, and the punt sup- ;
plied it. More than once I’ve come across
a case where they’ve taken hold on a
building 50ft. aloft and worked down-
wards. If they then cannot get to earth
they’re stonkered, but lump of damp
wood in the superstructure will keep them
nibbling until all moisture has disap- 1
peared. As for their gastric juices, they
certainly must be potent, for it is on
record in the P.M.G.’s Department that
they have not only devoured lead tele-
phone cables, but digested sufficient
cement to make a Sin. hole in concrete. ,
* * * ♦ ]
“Telarb”: I have lived with Torres
Straits islanders for quite a time, and,
whilst I’ve seen plenty of bush
piccaninnies like it, I have yet to see a
woman who has suffered at the hands of
a tonsorial expert. Perhaps they did years
ago and have outgrown it, as they are
even now outgrowing the requirement of
a chaperone for engaged couples. One
of the most interesting of their strange
customs today is that which prohibits an
individual from referring to his sister- or
brother-in-law by her or his Christian
name under pain of presenting to the in-
law in question a gift each time the
correct name is applied. They use the
first name that comes into their heads,
and, although it appears to make for con-
fusion worst confounded, it seems to
work.
QUINCES.
Quinces, ruby-red, in the cut-glass bowl;
The tree itself, bare in the winter cold;
The big, shy blossoms opening in the gold
Of sunny spring, the bumbling bee that weaves
His pollen-laden way through gentle leaves.
Quinces, furred like Esau, on the tree . . •
Hard and tart till the frost has had its way
And suddenly, almost in the space of a day,
Turning from green to luscious golden-yellow,
Essence of autumn, tantalising, mellow.
Quinces, snitched from the tree by frost-red
fingers.
Jiggled with books and lunches in the school-
bags,
Smuggled from desk to desk as the long day
drags,
Fur rubbed off on a pants-leg, bite and pass
Along the row and so round the whole class.
Quinces, turning brown round the cream flesh;
The feel of the juices squirting with the bite;
The secret chewing, sudden, swallowing fright
That teacher has seen the tell-tale bulging cheek
And there’ll be extra homework for a week.
N.S.W.
N. L. RAY.


your dependants look to tfW to make the wisest choice
Your choice of an Executor and Trustee is a decision which directly
affects the welfare of your dependants. Your Trustee should be
chosen for his business knowledge, integrity, experience, perma*
nence and financial stability, otherwise you may imperil your
family’s inheritance. An executor should not be selected on
grounds of sentiment or affection. Avoid all risks by appointing the
Permanent Trustee Company. You can then be assured of expert
administration of your affairs, combined with absolute security and
safety.
Why not call and discuss this matter further with one of our
Executive Officers? Or write for free booklet, “Trust Estates and
Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman ,
F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D,
G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.ChM., F.R.A.CS.
J. R. Faviell
Manager : N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle Sub Manager : S. U. White
Secretary : F. R. Garland
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET
sd
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALES
PT.t3.15
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop Rubber Aus., Ltd.
Parent’s Figures.
Net , Dividends N To Ee- Ee-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. serves.t
£ p.c. p.c. £ £ £
1940. .450,505 10 7 856,596 93,909 427,028
1941. .381,369 10 7 356,596 24,773 451,801
1942.. 375,768 10 5 281,282 94,486 546,287
1943. 10 5 281,282 105,011 651,298
1944. .380,316 10 5 281,282» 99,034 750,332
1945. .392,118 10 5 281,282 110,836 861,168
Excess cost shares purchased, £39,133.. 822,035
Unexplained addition, £373 .. .. 822,408
1946. .404,623 10 5 281,282 123,341 945,749
Parent and Subsidiaries.*
1947. .518,491 10 8 394,252 124,239 662,698
Net reduction reserves, £32,148 .. 630,550
1948. .534,745 10 8 394,252 140,493 771,043
Surplus sale assets, £198,422 .. .. 909,465
Less premium shares bought, £62,364.. 907,101
Unexplained reduction contingency re-
serve, £45,645 .. .. .. 861,456
Add sundry adjustments, £6898 .. 868,354
1949. .454,117 10 8 394,252 59,865 928,219
t After deducting goodwill, etc. (now £732,060).
* After deducting outside interests.
Output of this big industrial group—
largest of its kind in the Southern Hemi-
sphere—increased by \l\ p.c. last term,
Teaching a record £8,500,000. At the
game time plant efficiency increased and
greater economy was achieved in the use
of materials. Yet net earnings were
£80,628 short of the previous year’s at
£454,117 —the third-best showing since
the Perdriau and Barnet Glass businesses
were absorbed in 1929. It was enough
to pay the prefs. their 10 p.c. (£93,000)
and show 9.6 p.c. on the £3,765,655 of
ord. capital as against 11.6 p.c. and 11.3
p.c. for the two preceding terms. That
was after allowing £238,989 (up £28,646)
for depreciation, an unstated amount for
taxation and other contingencies, and de-
ducting the interest of outside share-
holders (£16,511), but disregards various
reserve adjustments interlined in the table.
The div. was kept at 8 p.c., making aver-
age distribution for the last decade 6.3
per cent.
The continued rise in the cost of labor
and materials and narrowing gross mar-
gins were the trouble. The growth in
labor costs —there are over 4700 names
on the payroll—amounted to 41 p.c.
Biggest single factor responsible for this
was the 40-hour week, which, apart from
the effects of the time factor on costs,
is equivalent to a 10 p.c. lift in hourly
wage-rates. Moreover, in order to
quicken output, which hasn’t yet over-
taken the order-book, a lot of overtime
had to be worked at heavy penalty rates.
Quarterly lifts in the basic wage, which
seem likely to continue into the first
half of 1950, accounted for only 8 p.c. of
the total increase. The average market
price of raw rubber, which came for-
ward in good volume, was 13 p.c. higher
than for the previous year, due partly
to pressure of Russian buying.
On the tyre-and-tube side of the busi-
ness, which accounts for over half total
turnover, the following comparison of
motor-vehicle registrations in Australia
(service vehicles excluded) is a pointer to
what has happened:
Commercial Motor
June, Cars. Vehicles. Cycles.
1939 .. .. 562,271 258,025 99,237
1948 . . . . 593,077 414,072 100,196
May,
1949 . . . . 648,046 447,924 115,281
A lot of new plant has been installed
to meet the big increase in demand for
heavy-truck and agricultural tyres. Other
products from the 17 factories in the
group, nearly all of which have recently
increased their plant capacity, include
rubber footwear, flooring and belting,
latex upholstery and mattresses, plastics,
weatherproof garments, wet-cell batteries.
tennis racquets and gut and golf balls,
etc.
In future the growth of turnover is
likely to be less pronounced than of
recent years, and there is a limit to which
managerial efficiency can solve the prob-
lem of rising costs. Since labor and other
costs, including the cost of cotton tyre-
fabrics and other dollar commodities are
still rising, some increase in the price of
tyres and other products of the group
is essential if further recession in net
trading profits is to be avoided. Still,
much of new plant has not yet developed
its full earning capacity, and some relief
from the burden of overtime can be ex-
pected as the labor position improves and
production catches up with demand, a
point which doesn’t appear to be far
ahead. The big danger from continued
advances in selling prices lies in the pos-
sible effects of competition from over-
seas upon production, employment and
wages in our secondary industries.
How the organisation is financed, and
its continued all-round growth, are seen
in the following comparison of consoli-
dated balance-sheet figures:
Consolidated Balance-sheets.
Paid capital— 1947. 1948. 1949.
Dunlop interest £4,095,655 £4,695,655 £4,695,655
Outside interest* 48,810 53,321 126,913
Reserves! . . .. 1,399,572 1,503,703 1,659,053
Liabilities.. .. 498,121 783,919 2,597,898
Tax reserve .. 385,690 441,671 343,910
Freeholds, etc. , , 1,060,845 1,247,221 1,322,083
Plant, etc. . . 804,100 990,375 1,437,090
Stocks . . .. 2,120,120 3,020,842 4,035,417
Debtors . . . . 1,178,346 1,405,154 1,458,014
Investments, etc... 235,513 290,118 48,730
Cash, etc 1,114,601 14,990 18,835
Goodwill .. . . 730,874 732,060 730,834
* Includes share undistributed profits, f Subject to
goodwill.
To meet the year’s net additions of
£74,862 to freeholds, £446,721 to plant,
£1,608,575 to stocks, £53,460 to debtors’
balances and £33,734 to investments the
co. went to its bankers for £1,550,648,
raising the overdraft to £1,773,817, and
to sundry creditors (£824,081) for an
extra £263,331.
After fluctuating between 41s. 9d. and
355. 9d. over the last 10 months, the f.-p.
pound ords. stood at 40s. lOd. in the
market last weekend. The return at 40s.
lOd. is 3.9 p.c. on an 8 p.c. div. basis.
The prefs. at 445. 9d. yield 4.5 p.c. Net
tangible cover is £6 os. lid. prefs. and
245. lid. ords.
Bond’s Industries, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ords. serves, serves.
6 p.c. 10 p.c.
1943.. 61,034 10,699 27,007 23,298 100,570
Share premiums, £531 .. .. .. 101,101
Added reserves, £29,896 .. .. ~ 130,997
1944.. 70,669 23,567 32,753 14,349 145,346
From tax reserve, £15,756 .. .. 161,102
1945.. 61,004 24,000 39,610 2,606 158,496
7 p.c.
1946.. 49,628 24,000 30,963 153,161
Share premiums, £517 .. .. .. 153,678
Added reserves, £lO,OOO .. .. 163,678
8 p.c.
1947.. 75,216 24,000 36,548 14,668 178,346
Surplus, sale of assets, £5BBB .. .. 184,234
9 p.c.
1948.. 85,703 24,000 44,742 16,961 201,195
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. .. 196,195
Surplus sale assets, £1942 .. .. 198,137
Subsidies received, £17,651 .. .. 215,788
1949.. 89,814 24,000 45,634 20,180 235,968
This knitting and hosiery organisation
has had a chequered and interesting
career. Briefly—space precludes the full
story being unfolded here —the present
co. took over in 1929 the old G. A. Bond
business, which came to grief through
excessive borrowing and extravagant
management. The liquidators had trans-
formed the undertaking into a profit-
earner, most of the old trade debts were
funded by the issue of £544,000-odd of
7 p.c. debentures, and £133,816 of share
capital was issued to pay off small debts
and provide more working capital.
Before the co. could get into its stride
slump, falling prices, trouble with stocks
and aggressive competition landed it with
losses aggregating £279,492 for the three
years to end 1934, and payments) to
debenture holders got behind. The
corner was turned in 1935, and the co.
has never looked back since. After an
eight-year drought, the ords. got into the
picture again with 10 p.c. in 1940, and
have had annual distributions averaging
8.8 p.c. for the 9 i years since.
Initiating revival was an organised
assault upon costs by renewals and im-
provements to the chief earning asset
(plant), as well as the puttying-up of out-
lets on the manufacturing and selling
sides. «Chen war and post-war conditions
provided fresh opportunities, of which
the management made the most. In 1942
most of the debenture debt (£512,000)
was converted into pref. and ord. shares,
and the balance was wiped out from the
proceeds of a new share issue for cash.
From this point the introductory table
takes up the story.
At the request of the Government, a
manufacturing branch was opened at
Dubbo in 1944; and in the following
term a 96 p.c. interest in Commonwealth
Weaving Mills Pty. (paid capital £70,000),
which makes towels, etc., from yarns
produced by Bond’s Industries, was
bought for £92,206 in scrip. To finance
further growth, including expansion of
the subsidiary, 110,578 new £1 ords. were
issued at par in Dec., 1946.
Over the last couple of years turnover
has bounded along, additions have been
made to the cotton-spinning, underwear,
half-hose and dye-house sections and plant
to turn out fine-gauge full-fashioned hose
has been installed. The subsidiary has
set up a new weaving mill at Five Dock
and another at Cessnock, and has changed
its name to Dri-glo Towels Pty.
All sections contributed to the pool last
term. After setting aside £59,779 (up
£5836) for depreciation and £84,000 (up
£20,000) for the taxgatherer, net earnings
were £4lll stronger at £89,814. That
leaves out of the figuring a profit of
£1942 on sale of assets and £17,651 re-
ceived in respect of subsidies, now dis-
continued. The £89,814 covered the
pref. div. (£24,000) and 12.9 p.c. on
average ord. capital as against 12.4, 11.2,
5.8, 9.3 and 14.2 p.c. back to 1944. The
div. was kept at 9 p.c., and the £20,180
that remained lifted reserves to £235,968.
The year’s net addition to freeholds
was £105,157, to plant £101,501 and to
stocks £189,829:
Capital— 1942. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Pref. .. £400,000 £400,000 £400,000
Ord. ..£233,344 476,109 502,365 547,801
Debentures .. 512,000
Mortgage .. 76,705
Overdraft . . 98,414 15,062 210,063 419,045
Sndy. creditors 80,541 41,256 54,486 53,346
Tax provision 55,544 70,919 89,632
Depreciation 279,392 329,340 387,562
Freehold .. 272,583 299,788 312,270 417,427
Plant, etc. .. 276,865 487,094 572,590 674,091
Shares subsid. 94,774 193,234 193,234
Stock .. 416,365 376,163 511,455 701,284
Debtors . . 129,838 210,330 196,635 170,514
Cash, etc. .. 12,072 8,317 12,290 11,933
To help meet the outlay the co. went to
its bankers for an extra £208,982, and
shareholders put up a further £45,436 —
another ss. was called on the contribs.
When the books closed, more-or-less
liquids (excluding shares in the sub-
sidiary) exceeded outside liabilities (in-
cluding tax provision) by £321,708 (down
£63,200).
To reduce the overdraft and provide
more permanent working capital, those
on the ord. register at October 17 were
offered 200,000 new £1 shares, 10 for 27,
at par. When all the money on that lot
is in paid capital will be £1,155,500 in
400,000 6 p.c, prefs. and 755,500 ords.
The pref. div. and 9 p.c. to the ords.
will then call for £91,995, or only £2lBl
more profit than was claimed last term.
The market, which notes the impend-
ing threat of competition from both local
and overseas sources and the continued
rise in costs, priced the old fully-paid
ords. at 325. last weekend, equal to 295.
6d. after exercising the rights. The re-
turn at 295. 6d. is 6.8 p.c. so long as the
9 p.c. div. continues, or 5 p.c. should the
distribution drop to 7} p.c. The rights
have a theoretical value of 9s. 3d., but
will probably be available at less. The
prefs., at 245, 6d., yield 4.9 p.c. In-
cluding the new issue, net tangible cover
is 695. 6d. prefs. and 265, 3d. ords.
Commonwealth Wool and Produce (Syd.)
Bonus Added
to to Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Clients, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1940.. 20,648 4 p.c. = 11,999 2858 5791 94,057
1941.. 17,334 3 „ „ 9,000 3289 5045 99,102
1942.. 12,751 21 „ „ 7,500 5251 104,353
1943.. 12,710 24,, „ 7,500 5210 109,563
1944.. 17,290 4“,, ~ 12,000 6290 114,853
1945.. 12,183 3 „ „ 9,000 ' — 3183 118,036
1946.. 9,092 3 „ „ 9,000 92 118,128
1947.. 8,015 3 „ „ 9,000 117,143
1948.. 17,148 4 „ ~ 12,000 5148 122,290
June,
1949.. 24,148 „ „ 18,750 5398 127,689
The most important development in con-
nection with his co. —it operates mainly
in the west and sou’-west of N. S. Wales
and over the border in Victoria —has
occurred since the close of accounts. It
has sold its business and assets in Vic-
toria, where it set up about 16 years ago,
to Elder, Smith and Co. at a “very satis-
factory” price (figure not mentioned).
Also, each co. is to take up a “substantial”
wad of the other co.’s shares (on terms
not yet disclosed), and Elders is to be
represented on this co.’s board.
This marriage of interests promises to
be mutually beneficial, putting more stif-
fening into the C.W. and P. business —a
fact that the market was not slow to
recognise—and giving Elders a much-
needed wool-store and more office-space
in Melbourne, as well as increased volume
of turnover in Victoria, and an indirect
interest in wool and livestock in N. S.
Wales, where its activities had been pre-
viously confined to shipping and merchan-
dising arrangements, etc.
Latest accounts of C.W. and P. cover a
period of 15 months, owing to a change
in balancing-date. On an annual basis
the 1949 profit was only £2170 better at
£19,318, equal to 6.4 p.c. on capital as
against 5.7, 2.6, 3,4, 5.7 and 4.2 p.c.
back to 1943. The 6} p.c. div. was
equivalent to 5 p.c. p.a., compared with
4 p.c. for the previous term and an
average of 3.1 p.c. for the decade before
that. Considering what has happened in
the wool and livestock markets, earnings,
and therefore distributions, are moderate.
Last term the co. received 17,089 bales
more wool and put an extra 36,983 bales,
as well as more sheep and cattle, under
the hammer:
, Wool, Bales
Year Dis- Carry-
Mar., Receipts, posals. forward. Sheep. Cattle.
1944 .. 122,025 120,246 7,946 471,580 15,224
1945 .. 100,599 106,301 1,794 459,670 13,611
1946 ~ 87,314 87,998 . 1,110 316,447 13,114
1947 .. 96,933 84,841 13,202 260,839 13,613
1948 . . 97,070 92,524 17,748 231,021 13,339
June,
1949 . . 114,159 129,507 2,400 302,607 16,906
About one-third of the business is handled
in Victoria.
With shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined), and £70,426 besides,
all represented by freeholds, etc., alone at
June 30 last, the co. is necessarily a heavy
borrower:
, March June,
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Capital .. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Sndy. creditors* 251,963 642,306 119,357 535,094
Overdraft, etc. 201,673 64,700 280,154 71,494
Freehold, etc. 492,184 494,955 496,507 498,115
Stocks .. 18,108 23,739 42,374 56,452
Advances, etc. 830,295 523,970 254,250 442,993
Cash, etc. .. 7,022 57,075 7,185 3,383
Shares subsid. 38,155 33,409 33,486 40,083
* Includes provision for taxation.
Last term an increase of £415,737 in the
amount coming to sundry creditors, etc.,
which includes large sums held on de-
posit for clients, was used mainly to slash
£208,660 off the overdraft and add
£188,743 to advances, etc. There was
little change in the net financial position,
outside liabilities exceeding more-or-less
liquids by £63,677 (up £1461). Sale of
the Victorian interests should improve the
position.
The growth of £6597 in shares in sub-
sidiaries reflects purchase of C. C. Blox-
some’s stock-and-station-agency business
at Glen Innes, which is to be handed to a
new offshoot. New England Agency Co.,
Pty., formed jointly with Nemco, the
pioneer Newcastle woolbrokers in which
C.W. and P. holds a substantial interest
and for which it acts as managing agent.
The stock-and-station business of W. K.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE
INSURANCE SOCIETY. LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
Head Office: Insurance House, 109 Pitt Street, Sydney.
Invested Funds Exceed £500,000.
All Classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
Victorian Branch: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Q’land Branch: Primary Building, 99 Creek St., Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and ISqnitably Settled.
Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
asfd
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
filters, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice.
I, KURT YON STUTTERHEIM, of Ger-
man nationality, born at Coburg 1 , and
resident 10 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 11 Carrington Avenue, Bellevue
Hill, Sydney, intend to apply for naturali-
sation under the Nationality and Citizen-
ship Act, 1948.
HARTNETT MOTOR CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in Victoria)
ISSUE AT PAR OF
400,000 SHARES OF 5/- EACH
(Payable in full on application)
OFFERED FOR PUBLIC APPLICATION
No founders or management or deferred shares are to be issued.
AUTHORISED CAPITAL £250,000
DIRECTORS
LAURENCE JOHN HARTNETT, C.8.E., M.I.E. (Aust.), M.I.A.Ae.E., of
8 Heyington Place, Toorak, and of 414 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Chartered Engineer (Chairman and Managing Director).
WARREN WALLACE ALDERTON, of 15 Doohat Avenue, North Sydney,
and of 12 O’Connell Street, Sydney. Company Director.
JOHN STEWART McCALLUM, of 50 Shannon Avenue, Newtown,
Geelong, and of 103 Little Malop Street, Geelong. Company Director.
GOVAN WOOLSTON COX, of "Doqn Cottage”, Kars Street, Frankston,
and 434 Collins Street, Melbourne'. Company Director.
WALTER OSWALD BURT, of “Crayle", Hill Street, Toorak, and of
394 Collins Street, Melbourne. Barrister and Solicitor.
JOHN STANLEY OGDEN, of 65 Queens Road, Melbourne, 5.C.3, and
of 414 Collins Street, Melbourne. Company Director,
BANKERS
The National Bank of Australasia Limited, 271 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE
Edwin Albrecht Jensen, P.C.1.5., 434. Collins Street, Melbourne.
The Company will produce and sell a low-priced economical car
suitable for Australian and overseas markets, designed by the
internationally renowned engineers, Le Soclete des Brevets J. A:
Gregoire.
Tests give 52 m.p.g. at an average of 47 m.p.h. It Is expected that
cars will be available within a year.
The minimum .subscription upon which the Company may proceed to
allotment la 240,000 shares of 5/- (£60,000), which amount is needed
to provide payment to Le Societe das Brevets J. A. Gregoire for
exclusive rights, licences, etc., £ 10,000: purchase of supplies and
tools £31,250: reimbursement of developmental expenditure £3,375:
working capital £27,275: preliminary expenses £600: brokerage (2d.
per share) £2,500. There are no amounts to be provided in respect
of the matters aforesaid otherwise than out of the proceeds of the
issue.
Application list* open at 10 a.m. on Tuesday, 11th October, 1949, and
will close at noon on the 21st November, 1949, but the Directors
reserve the right to close the issue at an earlier time without notice.
Application will be made for listing of the shares for official quotation
on the Stock Exchange.
(This advertisement does not comply fully with the provisions of
the Companies Act 1938 and applications for shares will be accepted
only on the form of application in, and In terms of, the Company’s
Prospectus dated 10th October, 1949, a copy of which has been filed
with the Registrar-General, Melbourne, the Registrar of Companies,
New South Wales, the Registrar-General, Queensland, and the Registrar-
General, South Australia.)
Application forms and copies of the full prospectus may be obtained
through members of any recognised Stock Exchange or from the
registered office of the Company, 434 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Phone MU 4788.
f
:.y.
v:
..
§»»
r.Y-
: rtV$L 3t V J&”'
- vr ;c-\V
il
LLOYD’S OF LONDON
. . . the first 250 years
1854: Charge of the Light Brigade
The year fhe "gallant six hundred" stormed the
enemy guns at Balaclava, electric telegrams to
Lloyd's from their agents were first inaugurated.
This development completely transformed the
whole aspect of a "day's work" at Lloyd's and
further strengthened the position of the
organisation in the insurance world.
LUMLEY'S OF LLOYD'S OFFER A
FREE INSURANCE ADVISORY SERVICE
As insurance brokers, Lumley’s are in the position,
not only to give you complete advice, but also to
call upon the specialised policies of any number of
underwriting organisations, including Lloyd’s of
London. Whatever your insurance need, make
sure your policy has the best possible coverage
and most reasonable rates by consulting lumley’s
free advisory service — in all States of the
Commonwealth.
EDWARD LUMLEY
& SONS PTY. LTD.
263 George St., Sydney ... 79 Magellan St., Lismore
BW 2131 Lismore 380
And all other States.
EL.27.16
Garnsey, Senr., Pty., at Forbes,
was also bought at an unstated
figure.
With another good season
now well on the way, demand
strong, prices high and little
threat from trade or official
stocks, the outlook in the wool-
trade is a bright one at the
moment. The position in respect
of livestock is a very satisfac-
tory one, too. But seasons, de-
mand and prices cannot be ex-
pected to always remain at pre-
sent levels, though we are
building up a largely inflexible
costs structure on the assump-
tion that they will.
The market for the co.’s f.-p.
pound ords., which had dropped
to 17s. 3d. in June last, stood
at 225. 9d. last weekend. The
return at 225. 9d. is 4.9 p.c. on
a 5 p.c. div. basis. The cover
is 28s. 6d. in net tangibles.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
1941*.25,789 10 19,190 6,599 159,321
1942.. 48.610 10 38,379 10,231 169,552
1943.. 63.568 10 38,663 24,905 194,457
1944.. 65.945 10 39,253 26,692 221,149
1945.. 78.453 10 39,883 38,570 259,719
Maintenance res. down £2568. 257,151
1946.. 82.290 10 40,206 42,084 299,235
Maintenance res. down £1782. 297,453
1947.. 10 40,206 33,796 331,249
Maintenance res. down £1925. 329,324
1948.-83,377 10 40,206 43,171 372,495
To staff fund, £5OOO .. 367,495
Maintenance res. down £9605. 357,890
1949.. 82.319 10 40,206 42,113 400,003
* Six months.
This big retailer, whose store is
in the centre of one of the
busiest shopping blocks in Bris-
bane, has been a steady 10-per-
center for the last dozen years,
and, provided price - control
authorities adopt a flexible
policy as trading, conditions
change, there is nothing to sug-
gest that the 10 p.c. is likely to
be interfered with in the near
future.
Turnover increased again last
term for the eleventh year in
succession. But for the first
time during this period gross
earnings (£424,214, down
£19,123) turned in the wrong
direction. That was because of
further official cuts in gross mar-
gins, the Government’s aim
being to indirectly regulate profit
through price-control. At the
same time rising wage and other
costs added £40,239 to overhead
(£287,155), leaving profit before
taxation £21,416 lower at
£137,059. However, smaller
provision for taxation (£49,240,
down £14,858) and contingencies
(£5500, down £5500) enabled
the board to write the final
profit figure only £lO5B short of
the previous year’s at £82,319,
second best in the co.’s history.
It was 19.5 p.c. on capital as
against 20.7, 18.4, 19.4, 16.6,
16.5 and 12.6 p.c. back to 1943.
In terms of shareholders’ funds,
net earnings are little more than
half the rates on capital alone,
because there is almost as much
on the reserve shelf as there is
in the issued share-register. An
outlay of £9605 on deferred
maintenance was charged direct
to reserves that had been created
for the purpose.
Since shareholders’ funds
visibly amount to over 80 p.c.
of total assets, the co. is ob-
viously trading well within its
own resources —a sound prac-
tice, especially in a changing
economic climate:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Capital . . £402,067 £402,067 £402,067
Creditors,
etc. . . 60,928 54,892 94,460
Tax reserve,
etc. .. 104,455 116,390 67,395
Property,
plant, etc. 500,263 515,642 529,174
Stock .. 317,931 341,435 345,537
Book debts,
etc. .. 41,287 50,217 50,061
Investments
and cash 59,321 58,153 59,255
Current liabilities and provisions
were together £8927 less than at
the previous balance, and
£13,532 more was spent than
was written off on the store,
mainly on fittings and other
items which add to the attrac-
tiveness of the shop and the
comfort of customers. Consider-
ing the rise in prices, the small
increase in stocks (up £4102)
suggests a cautious buying
policy, and it is evident from
the size of debtors’ balances
that turnover is largely on a
cash basis. The more-or-less
liquid surplus (£292,998) was
£13,975 stronger than at the
previous balance.
With the post-war seller’s
market swinging over to a
buyer’s market, a sharpening of
competition and flattening-out
of turnover can be expected,
and costs, which are still rising,
will bite deeper into takings. The
biggest threat to net earnings
will arise when retail turnovers
get into reverse gear, as they will
eventually. State price-fixing
authorities, if they still continue
to function, will then need to re-
verse their present policy of
progressively reducing gross
margins, if serious trouble is to
be avoided. The point has
already arrived when price-fix-
ing by the State has become
more of a hindrance than a help
to both buyer and seller.
The market prices the f.-p.
pound ords., covered by
395. lid, in net tangibles, at
395. 6d. as against 475, a year
ago. The return at 395. 6d. is a
satisfactory 5 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis. In the northern State
investors have always expected
a slightly better return than is
to be had from a similar class
of investment in the south.
Owing to delays in delivery
and erection of equipment, and
the rise in the cost of everything.
Central Victoria Dredging has
fallen behind schedule for com-
mencement of operations, and
the original estimate of £380,000
required to bring the properties
into production is likely to be
exceeded by about £50,000. It
is not proposed to ask share-
holders for more at the moment.
The co.’s new Jim Crow dredge
should set-in any day now on
some 10,500,000 c.y., bored to
average 2.5 gr. gold. And a new
lease upstream in this area is
expected to provide another mil-
lion c.y. of payable ground. Re-
erection of the 175,000-c.y.-a-
-month all-electric machine
(bought from Victoria Gold
Dredging) on the Amphitheatre
area won’t be complete until
January next. But current will
not be available until April, and
the pipes to bring water from the
Avoca deep leads won’t be
delivered until March. Hopes
are that the dredge will be able
to make an initial start with
water drawn from the Avoca
River near by. Here the selected
area contains 20,000,000 c.y.,
bored to average 2.4 gr. gold, and
there is a likely 500 acres of
payable dirt upstream, not yet
sufficiently tested to form a reli-
able estimate of yardage and
grade
* * * *
Geological examination of
the Kalgoorlie'field (W.A.) has
disclosed two significant pros-
pects, says G. Lindesay Clark,
technical managing director of
Western Mining Corp., which is
general manager for Gold Mines
of Kalgoorlie. One is a chance
that mineralisation of that por-
tion of the field now being
worked might extend south-
ward ; the other is the possi-
bility of finding a second quartz-
diorite horizon which, it is
thought, might underlay the calc-
schist throughout the district.
This second horizon would be
considerably below present pro-
ductive levels on the field, except
on the eastern side, where it is
expected to be within reason-
able reach over a large area,
portion of which is covered by
G.M.K.’s leases and can be
tested by underground drilling.
The co. has also taken up a new
lease adjoining the southern end
of its property to cover the prob-
able extension of mineralisation.
It will presently make a gravity
geophysical survey of this
ground, and, if results warrant,
test-drill those parts of the
quartz-diorite closest to the sur-
face,
* * * *
The loss of £16,245 (stg.) on
mining account recorded for
1948 by London-controlled
Sons of Gwalia, operating near
Leonora (W.A.), was due to
a shrinkage of 23,993 tons ore
in throughput (67,289 tons) and
a leap of 11s. lid. a ton in
operating costs (455. 2.8 d., stg.).
A declining underground labor
force was responsible for the
drop in mill-feed, and a rise of
10s. 6d. a week in the basic
wage, plus 4s. industrial allow-
ance, together with a reduction
in working hours, for the rise in
costs, which were also aggra-
vated by the lower tonnage. On
the basis of last year’s figures the
recent lift in the price of gold
would change the loss to a
profit of £47,800-odd. Savings are
expected to follow substitution
of the Merrill Crowe process for
zinc boxes in precipitation and
overhaul of the filtration plant.
The labor force has been
strengthened by recruitment of
Italian miners and Balts, Still,
for the first 28 weeks of 1949
mill throughput (41,466 tons for
11,1290 z. fine gold) was at the
same average rate as for last
year. Chief developments in
the mine are on Nos. 30, 31 and
32 levels, and the internal shaft
has been sunk 521 ft. below No.
30 level, or 5391 ft. below the
surface.
* * * *
A £12,000 loan from the Wes-
tralian Government, and the re-
cent lift in the price of gold,
have given Meekatharra Sands
Treatment, whose financial and
other estimates went all awry,
another lease of life. During
the five weeks to September 2
plant was out of action for 12
days, the loader having broken
down. For the balance of the
period 6730 tons sands were
treated for 3230 z, fine gold, an
average of 0.96dwt., or
14s. 10.4 d. a ton with gold at
£l5 9s. lOd. an ounce. By sub-
stituting sluicing for loading the
management reckoned it can get
costs down to 6s. 6d. a ton. If
it can there are years of work
ahead in the old Ingliston Con-
sols and Fenian dumps at
Meekatharra.


Executor - Trustee - Attorney
'VHA T
The
A BULWARK
Against Misfortune
When you appoint Burns Philp Trust
Company Limited as your executor or trustee, you
show sound judgement. The administration of your
estate will, one day, become the responsibility of ex-
perienced directors and capable officers. Your family's
interests will be fully protected at every turn by this
permanent and solidly financed institution.
“Hands That Never Leave the XVheel” explains how
the Company can assist you. A complimentary copy of
this interesting booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS:
James Burns Joseph Mitchell
P. T. W. Black Eric Priestley Lee
MANAGER: L. S. Parker SECRETARY: E. R. Overton, F.F.I.A.
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Box 543, G.P.O., Sydney
BP14-49
Tel. BU 5901
iVc^
m
m
Brail
SI
By Appointment-
Cin Distillers
*/ to H.M. King George
(Tinqueray. Gordon & Co Lt#
Qua£/y
ordon's
Stands Sufitetm
FACING A NERVOUS BREAKDOWN
Once the doping effect of in-
flation wears off, if not before,
Australian industry under
Socialism is in for a nervous
breakdown, provided a physical
breakdown does not come first.
Major economic developments
in the Socialist world during the
past year have added little ex-
cept uncertainty to the outlook
of those people who find them-
' selves engaged in sorne way—
however small —in directing,
managing or assisting in the
conduct of a nation’s industries
and finances. The war itself
was bound to leave an after-
math of great economic stress
and confusion. This aftermath
has been added to, especially in
Britain, Australia and New Zea-
land, by the interference of
Socialists in industrial manage-
ment and financial control and
in widespread restriction of pri-
vate initiative.
In Britain, Australia and
Maoriland the Socialists have
not been content to administer
a private-enterprise economy
with an aim of giving the under-
dog a bigger share of the
national income. Far from it.
The Socialist objective in these
countries has been to achieve
supreme economic - power, with
private enterprise acting as a
mere puppet in the industrial
and financial scheme of things.
And the effect on industry of
what the Socialist Govern-
ments have “achieved” by
legislation in this direction the
“Labor” trade - unions have
added to by wanton strike
action, at times being a great
political embarrassment to the
Socialist political parties.
Work and Thrift Penalised
Where the Australian investor
and the Australian industrial
producer have been hit by the
advance of Socialism has been
chiefly in the denial of fair re-
wards for thrift and enterprise,
and by all the inflation and un-
certainty that the unstable
Socialistic economy has brought.
A person who saves and in-
vests in Government securities
or anything else is no longer
sure that his savings will be
worth in five years’ time what
they are worth now —he is more
likely to be correct in thinking
that if Socialism continues to
reign they will be worth much
less. And the producer, pestered
by regulations, heavy taxation,
badgered by “Labor” unions
and at the mercy of a host of
Government departments,
doesn’t know whether all his
work and worry are going to be
worth the candle when he ends
his financial year. Sometimes,
on paper, he may appear to be
making a lot of money. But,
on the average, the proprietors
of industry today are not hold-
ing their own, in their earnings,
with inflation and increased liv-
ing costs even to the extent
acknowledged by the Socialist-
employed statisticians.
And investors, often with the
savings of a lifetime, rarely find
an investment on the market
that will give them a reasonable
return on their money, especi-
ally when the cost of that sav-
ing over the years is taken into
account. Certainly they won’t
live very well on the interest
from Government bonds. Yet
the Chifley Government, in
spite of Is. 6d. in the £ levied
as a social-services tax and
heavier taxation on property in-
come than on that from per-
sonal exertion, usually excludes
from the old-age pension,
through the means test, any in-
vestor who can be so called.
Devaluation a Symptom
The recent Cripps devaluation
of sterling, accepted by the
Chifley Government, was very
largely a result of Socialism and
trade-unionism-gone-haywire. It
has caused great concern to
many industries which rely on
dollar countries for raw
materials and industrial equip-
ment, and has stimulated the in-
flationary processes already so
evident in the Australian
economy. The Australian cost
of living, and many other costs,
now seem bound to rise, with
their consequent attack on thrift
and buying-power generally.
Our credit, which has for
several years been sinking in the
quicksands of Socialist theory
and expediency, now sinks
further, and so does business
and industrial confidence.
Whether, in circumstances as
they exist today, devaluation by
Cripps could have been avoided
is beside the point. The fact re-
mains that this disconcerting,
inflationary and confidence-
shattering devaluation is the nor-
mal result of an economic and
political programme in which
production by industry is inade-
quate and the creation of paper-
money credit is grossly exces-
sive.
But for the Socialist rot that
has occurred in Britain and Aus-
tralia many economic conditions
as they are today would not
have arisen. Bad as the post-war
economic position might have
been under a free-enterprise
system, it would at least have
been free of all those imprac-
ticable theories and extravagant
expedients that are essentially
Socialist in character and which
are anathema to the United
States, the home of the world-
important dollar. We could at
least have avoided the prevail-
ing production depression.
The businessman and the in-
vestor in Australia had better
attempt to size up the situation
lest they find themselves in the
position of a donkey ever pur-
suing a carrot. Initiative has
been taken away from private
enterprise, including the bank-
ing system, to the extent that the
Federal “Labor” Government is
able to base its credit policy on
a requirement of “full employ-
ment” in a payroll sense and a
Budget that takes from the
national income such a propor-
tion as the Socialist Treasurer
feels politically and economi-
cally necessary. And investors
see inflation followed by more
inflation.
Power Without Responsibility
The central Canberra Gov-
ernment, in taking to itself such
enormous financial power, has
taken a similar amount of
power from private enterprise.
This is not generally understood
by businessmen as a body, many
"I wish you Wouldn't ask me during Working-hours,
dear - looks bad.”
of whom, like the wage-earners,
having for a long time been
bluffed by the mirage created by
inflation. But the great power
assumed by Canberra has not
been accompanied by a similar
sense of responsibility even as
regards the implementation of
Socialism. Only those who ac-
cept government are governed
by Canberra “Labor.” The
militant unionists (and many
others, for that matter) defy the
Government’s laws regardless
of whether they are in the in-
terests of private enterprise or
Socialism.
Production Depression
The production which is as
necessary under Socialism as it
is under private enterprise has
not been forthcoming. En-
couraged by the early industrial
indiscipline which Socialism
fostered and Communism has
aggravated, trade-unionism has
fallen down on the producing
side of things. It has been en-
tirely ungrateful for the 40-hour
week and for “prosperity” load-
ings and the like. It has not
recognised the essential prin-
ciple which must prevail in any
form of democratic economy—a
fair day’s work for fair pay.
And in its failure, which has
been added to by the manpower
diversion to the non-productive
Socialist civil service, it has
caused costs of production and
the cost of living to soar, mak-
ing obscure and uncertain the
whole economic outlook of the
Australian people.
The responsible Australian
citizen, especially the one who
has a business to run and a pay-
roll to provide, should realise
that there is no sheet-anchor to
values or costs any more. The
restraining influence of the gold
standard has gone, and so, for
the present, have the effects of
the law of supply and demand.
Labor, the key to real costs of
production, is in a state of
demoralisation, especially in in-
dustries providing essential raw
materials; and sections of the
trade-union movement periodi-
cally hold the rest of the com-
munity up to ransom. And the
Chifley Government, which is
largely financed by the trade-
unions, is in no political position
to resist this sort of blackmail.
Today industry is “flying
blind”—and hoping that a fair
deal will once again become the
ruling economic principle, and
with it, automatically, a feeling
of greater economic security.
But the investor in Common-
wealth bonds, mortgages, etc.,
and the thrifty who leave their
savings in the bank are daily
being robbed through the effects
of Socialist inflation upon the
cost of living. Those who own
real assets, such as factories,
houses, other property, etc.,
may some day rehabilitate them-
selves, however badly they are
faring now. But economic his-
tory shows that once inflation
has eaten away part of a per-
son’s money savings, even a de-
pression, with its accompanying
fall in prices, never fully re-
stores the buying-power which
several years of inflation has
wiped out.
Lanray Industries
Valued as high as 10s. last
year, Lanray’s five-shillirig shares
had slipped below par before the
board gave notice of the special
meeting this month, and since
the meeting the price has sagged
to 4s. The new management has
suggested that shareholders
should hang on still, but admits
it will have to declare a trading
loss for the year ended June 30,
and won’t be able to declare any
dividend, ordinary or pref. Dis-
enchantment has set in on several
counts; there was an ominous
reference to the need for “re-
aligning stock values in relation
to former valuations.”
It’s only two years since
Lanray was formed in Sydney as
a holding company to acquire
three rather oddly-assorted little
subsidiaries. The oldest was
Sunshine Weaving Mills Pty.,
which has been making canvases
and tapestries since 1937.
Another subsidiary, Lanray
Metals Pty., had been formed at
the beginning of the war to turn
out kerosene-heaters, aluminium-
ware and electrical lines. The
third subsidiary. Plastic Coatings
Pty., was set up after the war to
provide plastics treatment for
products of outside companies ;
it hasn’t yet started to operate.
When the holding co. took
them over, the total capital of the
three proprietaries wasn’t much
more than £lO,OOO. In payment
for this scrip, the holding co.
issued £35,000 of its own capital
in ss. ords. At that time, another
£35,000 was issued privately for
cash, parly in 1948 the public
took up 46,667 new ords. at a
50 p.c. premium and also £35,000
of preference scrip. Smaller
issues this year have raised the
total capital to £136,667, of
which £40,000 is preferential.
For the first trading year,
ended June 30, 1948, the board
declared a consolidated profit of
£9066, and, after paying the
prefs. at their statutory 5 p.c.
rate, distributed a 7 p.c. dividend
to the ords.
Only last April an interim
ordinary div. was paid at the
rate of 8 p.c. for the 1948-49
term —but there will be no final
(payment. The former managing-
director, H. Vidor, has been re-
placed and his shareholding
bought out (at par) by the com-
pany’s underwriting brokers,
A. W, Harvey, Lowe and Co.
The new chairman, N. A.
Pardoe, says the extent of the
year’s losses requires careful in-
vestigation. Trading results had
been showing continuous profits,
but with constant increases in
stocks, he said. References were
also made at the meeting to
“uneconomical” production and
rising costs.
Jewellers on ’Change
Saunders and Prouds, whose
separate jewellery windows strive
to out-sparkle each other across
King-street, Sydney, have both
issued their first accounts as
public companies.
Once again they show a certain
amount of unison; each has
declared a 15 p.c. dividend, and
the yield from their scrip is
practically the same on last
week’s sharemarket. They picked
up the synchronising habit early
this year when both joined the
’Change list and announced
plans for extending their
premises.
But while Saunders has been
able to carry out its programme
and open a new crystal-ware de-
partment in its resumed property,
Prouds haven’t succeeded
in ousting their tenants, and
£20,000 of this co.’s new capital
is lying in Government bonds;
the money will be used early in
1950 to freshen up the existing
premises.
Saunders came on the share-
market last March by placing


102,000 of its pound shares at
30s. apiece. The market im-
mediately took them to its heart,
raisin'g the price to 455., where
it has stayed. Saunders’ new
accounts cover the last six
months only of the term ended
last June 30; net profit was at
the rate of 24 p.c. on capital,
and considerably better than the
prospectus figures. On a 15 p.c.
div. basis (including 5 p.c. ;
bonus), the current yield is 6.6
p.c.
In the case of Prouds, listing
on ’Change was obtained by a
placement of 148,000 shares of
10s. each at a premium of 16s.
(or 160 p.c,). They soon fell
below the placement price, and
the present market is around
245. The net profit of £66,171
just announced for 1948-49 was
£7560 less than the adjusted
figures for the previous year as
quoted at the time of the place-
ment, but it still represents 26
p.c. on capital. Present yield
from Prouds’ scrip is 6\ p.c.
Profits of both these cos. have
jumped enormously in the post-
war period. It’s hard to imagine
a more favorable time for
jewellers an abundance of
money combined with shortages
of the basic needs of life. The
trade would be very susceptible
to a change in the economic
weather. Hence the over-6 p.c.
yield asked by the market.
One back-door method of
entry into bank-nationalisation
that didn’t open up for the Gov-
ernment was the arrangement to
buy bank shares on the Stock
Exchange. In the House of Re-
presentatives the other day, Mr.
Chifley gave these details of
transactions to date:
Bank of Adelaide, 26 shares pur-
chased by the Commonwealth Bank,
representing 0.01 p.c. of the total
issued capital.
Bank of New South Wales, 49
shares, 0.01 p.c.
Commercial Bank of Australia,
33,118 shares, 3.4 p.c.
Commercial Banking Company of
Sydney, 86 shares, 0.02 p.c.
National Bank of Australasia,
31,474 shares, 0.04 p.c.
Bank of Australasia, 19,768 shares,
2.2 p.c.
E., S. and A. Bank, 493 shares,
0.05 p.c.
Union Bank of Australia, 14,412
shares, 1.8 p.c.
It’s still rather a long way from
Mr. Chifley’s goal. If all these
shares have been bought at the
Government’s guaranteed mini-
mum price there would be a
small consolation-prize to collect
by selling them on the present
market.
* * * #
By financial juggling, N.Z.
Labor-Socialists have converted
a working loss of £527,228 on
Maoriland’s nationalised coal-
mines into a microscopic profit
of £30,661, Taxpayers, who are
now the real owners, have had to
cough up £430,451 in special
subsidies “to meet losses on un-
economic mines,” and the Gov-
ernment, as the board of direc-
tors, with no obligation to make
the show pay, has cancelled in-
terest of £136,345 on loan capi-
tal. There’s a total handout of
£566,796. Maorilanders figure
out that the loss was 7s. 6d. a
ton on ail State coal mined last
year. Besides the special sub-
sidies, there were grants of tax-
money to State and privately-
owned mines to hold down the
price of coal to consumers,
which lifted the total coal-sub-
sidy bill to £1,845,090 for the
twelvemonth. Since May, 1940,
coal subsidies have run into
£7,250,000, and the cost each
year is growing at a greater rate.
For an output of 2,775,886 tons,
676,728 tons of it taken from
opencast workings, in the latest
term, the result isn’t one to crow
about. Except for the men who
hew the coal, for an average of
more than £3 a day, no one is
getting fat on the industry. In
one West Coast pit daily earn-
ings reached the princely aver-
age of £4 os. lid., and the men
are hoping the rise of 7s. in this
figure won’t be the last that
comes their way. They’ve left
most business and professional
salary-earners miles behind.
AUSTRALIAN CONSOLIDATED
INDUSTRIES LIMITED
Chairman’s Address at Twenty-seventh Annual Meeting of Shareholders
held on 30th September, 1949
The Chairman (Sir Alexander
Stewart) in moving the adoption of
the Directors’ Report and Accounts
said:
Ladies and Gentlemen,
Before commencing my review of
the Company’s affairs, I apologise for
the absence of Mr. W. J. Smith, our
Managing Director, and Mr. A. E.
Smith, General Manager, who are
unable to be present today.
I also wish to offer apologies on
behalf of our Director, Mr. S. G.
Garnsworthy, who is at present visit-
ing Singapore.
During the year the Board sus-
tained a severe loss in the death of
Major-General H, W. Grimwade.
after a lengthy illness. Major-General
Grimwade had been associated with
the Company for approximately forty
years and was a major factor in its
development and progress. At the
time of his death, he was Chairman
of the Company, a position he had
held with distinction since May, 1945.
We miss him both as a colleague
and as a friend.
Mr. John Grimwade, son of Major-
General Grimwade, was invited to
join the Board to fill the vacancy
caused by the death of his father,
and his appointment makes him the
third generation of his family to be
associated with the Company on the
Board of Directors.
The Consolidated Profit of the
A.C.I. Group of Companies for the
year ended June 30, 1949, was
£548,569, an increase of £72,054
compared with the result of the pre-
vious year. The return on the average
shareholders’ funds employed during
the year is 5£%, which is slightly
higher than that for the previous
year, viz., 5.2%.
Out of this profit, the Parent Com-
pany received dividends which, to-
gether with other income, enabled it
to show a profit of £441,214, as com-
pared with £379,167 for the previous
thirteen months.
Dividends of 9% on both the
Preference and Ordinary Shares were
paid for the year, the Ordinary Divi-
dend being 1% higher than that paid
in the previous period.
Turning now to the Balance Sheet,
you will notice that there have been
substantial alterations in some of the
figures, which I consider warrant
some explanations, and I propose to
review the Consolidated Balance
Sheet first, using round figures for
the sake of brevity.
ON THE ASSETS SIDE:—
The first item —Debtors £1,058,0(K)
—is £358,000 higher than at June 30,
1948, which is due principally to the
higher monetary value of turnover.
Stock on Hand—
The amount this year is £3,290,000,
being £665,000 more than at the same
date last year. It is interesting to
note that the stocks may be divided
in value almost equally into three
categories, as follows:
(1) Raw Materials.
(2) General stores and spare ma-
chine parts.
(3) Finished and partly-finished
stocks.
With reference to finished and
partly-finished stocks, I would point
out that the demands for the Com-
panies’ products are such that stocks
are at a minimum figure, consistent
with the service necessary from our
Companies to our customers.
Investments—
The total value of our investments
this year, viz., £1,496,000, is £334,000
in advance of the amount shown in
the previous Balance Sheet. Since
30th June, 1949, some of our hold-
ings have been realised to finance
our expansion programme.
As regards our investment in
shares, a larger amount is now held
in Public Companies, which have been
favorably purchased, and the increase
is mainly due to additional holdings
acquired by our Insurance Company
from time to time.
The investments in Public Com-
panies and in other securities are a
solid backing to your Company’s
financial strength. They are mostly
in concerns with which your Com-
panies do much business or have
kindred interests, and are regularly
earning substantial revenue, justify-
ing their purchase and retention.
Fixed Assets—
Under this heading are included
Freehold and Leasehold Land and
Buildings, Machinery and Plant, and
also Patent Rights and Licences,
amounting, in all, to £4,345,000.
This represents a net increase of
£329,000 during the year, the expendi-
ture on Fixed Assets for the year
being £961,000.
Depreciation, totalling £632,000,
has been written off for the year at
rates not less than those allowed by
the Taxation Commissioner, including
the 20% Special Depreciation on the
purchase of new machinery.
The Fixed Assets are stated at a
conservative figure, and today’s re-
placement cost would be substantially
more than the amount shown in the
Balance Sheet,
Goodwill—
The value of this asset has in-
creased this year by £54,000, due to
the acquisition of a new Subsidiary
Company and to exchange differences
in overseas Subsidiaries.
ON THE LIABILITIES
SIDE:—
Bank Overdraft—
The bank overdraft stands at
£93,000. On June 30 last year the
overdraft was £317,000. This over-
draft fluctuates from time to time,
due to financing the trading of the
different Companies.
Shareholders’ Funds—
Referring to the Shareholders’
funds, you will note the Paid-up
Capital now stands at £5,109,856, and
that the Premiums on Shares Reserve
has increased to £899,738. These
two accounts show the effect of the
new Share Issue made in 1948. The
Shareholders’ funds, for the first
time in the history of the Company,
have passed £10,000,000 and now
total £10,522,517.
As regards the Parent Company’s
own Balance Sheet, there is no neces-
sity to deal with the items in detail
except to say that you will notice
that the total amount in shares and
advances to Subsidiary Companies
has increased by approximately
£1,200,000, and this shows that the
whole of the proceeds of the new
Share Issue has been passed on to
the operating Companies.
I will now proceed to acquaint you
with the highlights of the established
industries, together with the develop-
ments of the new industries, and also
something about the new ventures
which your Board intends to estab-
lish.
Before referring individually to
different industries, two matters com-
mon to most of them —especially in
Australia —were the shortages of
labour and coal. All our industries
have suffered from these two deficien-
cies, retarding production and increas-
ing costs. Consequently, these two
subjects need not be referred to when
dealing with the individual industries.
Glass Manufacturing
(a) Containers:
(i) Australia—
With the object of meeting the full
demand for glass containers, we have
two new furnaces at present in the
course of construction, one in Mel-
bourne and one in Sydney. They
are of our latest design, and, when
completed, each will deliver a greater
tonnage of glass than any other bottle
furnace in the world. Construction
has been hindered by the lack of
sufficient tradesmen and the shortage
of building materials. However,
better progress is now being made,
and the Sydney furnace will be
operating early in the New Year,
with Melbourne to follow later.
(ii) New Zealand—
A good demand for glass con-
tainers continues, and our capacity
is severely taxed, this position being
accentuated by a period in which pro-
duction ceased, owing to a general
transport strike. We do, however,
expect to overcome the pressure on
our manufacturing resources in the
near future.
The Board has decided to establish
a new works for the manufacture of
glass containers and pressed ware in
the South Island of New Zealand, a
factory site having been purchased
at Christchurch. This project will
be proceeded with in the near future.
(iii) Singapore—
This Factory commenced produc-
tion during the year under review.
In the early stages, many initial
difficulties were encountered, includ-
ing the heavy cost involved in train-
ing the local labor.
However, everything is now going
smoothly. Orders in hand justified
the Company increasing its produc-
tion capacity, and a second furnace
is being constructed, and will be
operating in the course of a few
weeks.
(iv) Tasmania—
-1 mentioned last year that it had
been decided to erect a factory in
Hobart. Building operations have
been commenced, and to date very
satisfactory progress has been made.
(b) Window Glass:
We have plans in hand for the
development of the Window Glass
Section which, when completed,
should result in meeting the whole
of the demand.
Production of Glass Bricks has
been recommenced, and they are, as
before the war, keenly sought after
by the building trade.
(c) Flint Blown And
Pressed Glassware And
Lightingware:
The sales have reached an all-time
record, and I would say that the
prospects for the year are excellent.
The orders booked show an increase
in demand for the Companies’ pro-
ducts, and provision is now being
made for increased output and a
larger range of their different pro-
ducts; such increase should be avail-
able by the end of this year.
Engineering:—
Our Engineering Companies have
continued to concentrate on the
manufacture of plant and machinery,
equipment, moulds and dies for Asso-
ciated Companies, and also their
engineering maintenance. A large
number of new type bottle-baking
machines has been manufactured, and
are now working in our various glass
factories, in addition to glass-making
equipment for the pressed-ware in-
dustries.
Plant was completed in the Sydney
Branch for the Redondo Tile Com-
pany. They are also making the
equipment for the new glass furnaces
previously mentioned and for Singa-
pore Glass Manufacturers Company,
Limited.
The Company’s long-established
policy of equipping engineering plants
with modern machine tools has been
continued during the year, regardless
of the heavy capital cost involved.
Aerex Fans:—
Our Subsidiary—Aerex (Australia)
Company—is working to capacity in
producing “Aerex” Axial Flow Fans
and Ventilation Equipment, Several
large mining fans are in course of
construction, and important orders
for similar equipment are continually
being received.
Plastics:—
During the year our Factories,
which are established in Victoria,
New South Wales, South Australia,
and New Zealand, continued to ex-
pand their manufacturing activities
of a wide range of industrial, com-
mercial, and domestic articles.
A matter of interest is the purchase
by A.C.I. Plastics Pty., Ltd., of a
5000-ton Moulding Press. This Press
is constructed to mould large-sized
articles, and is one of the three largest
Plastic Moulding Presses in the world.
It is being installed in our Spots-
wood, Victoria, Factory.
Tiles;—
The manufacture of glazed wall
tiles, which I mentioned last year as
being well in hand, has been in opera-
tion in Sydney for some months.
The Plant is working satisfactorily
and is producing tiles of excellent
quality.
“Redondo Tiles” are being well
received by the trade, and the future
prospects of this new development
are considered to be good.
Plant for the Melbourne Factory
has been designed, and some is
already in store awaiting a favorable
opportunity to erect the building, the
site for which was recently acquired
The remaining industries, which I
have not mentioned in detail, have
functioned steadily, subject to the
present-day manufacturing problems,
and the demand for their products
is strong, though a disappointing
factor is the still rising cost of pro-
duction caused through the continual
increases in wages, absenteeism, fuel,
and raw materials. However, every
effort is being made to absorb these
costs in the industry by the constant
development of improved methods,
the Company’s policy being to refrain
from increasing the price of its pro-
ducts to its customers until every
other means to meet the position has
been exhausted.
Crockery:—
You were informed at the last
Meeting that this industry was in the
course of being established, and I
want to inform you what is the
present position.
A site for the factory has been
purchased in Melbourne, and plans
for the lay-out of the factory com-
pleted, and certain machinery has
been acquired.
Materials for factory construction
and permits to build —as is generally
known —are difficult to obtain, but
we are hopeful that the erection of
the buildings will not be long delayed.
The work is being proceeded with,
but it is not possible to indicate a
specific date when the factory will
be completed, this being governed by
our ability to obtain the necessary
priorities for materials, particularly
steel, but you can be assured it will
be pushed ahead just as fast as pre-
vailing conditions will permit.
CONCLUSION—
The value to the Company of its
employees needs no explanation, and
I am sure Shareholders will agree
that the results that have been
achieved in the year just completed
reflect the loyal support and helpful
co-operation of all our employees.
It was a splendid achievement in
spite of many problems and difficul-
ties, and I would like to pass on to
them on your behalf an expression
of thanks for their loyalty, co-opera-
tion, and enthusiasm.
In this Address, I have been able
to give you only a brief view of the
Company’s activities over the last
financial year, but, from the fore-
going, you will realise that we can
look forward to the future with re-
newed confidence and the assurance
that your Company will continue to
expand and make its full contribu-
tion to the developments of the coun-
tries which it serves.
The motion of the Chairman for
the adoption of the Report and Ac-
counts was seconded by Mr. L. L.
Evans, who congratulated the Com-
pany on the progress and expansion
that is being continually achieved.
The retiring Directors, Mr. A. E.
Smith and Mr. S. G. Garnsworthy,
were re-elected Directors of the Com-
pany on the motion of Mr. W. Sydney
Jones, which was seconded by Mr.
F. S. Grimwade.
Mr. G. O. Simcock moved and
Mr. F. J. Hutton seconded that Mr.
John F. T. Grimwade be elected a
Director to the Board to fill the
casual vacancy caused by the death
of the late Major-General H. W.
Grimwade.
)
On the motion of Mr. A. E.
Presswell and seconded by Mr. H.
Engelbert, Mr. A. G. Hooke, F.C.A.
(Aust.), the retiring Auditor, was
re-elected auditor to the Company
for the ensuing year.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
There was so much youth and beauty
loose in the drawing-room of Lieut.-
General and Mrs. Berryman’s bungalow at
Victoria Barracks last Friday evening
that the whole might have been a scene
from a Noel‘Coward show. The late-
afternoon party was to farewell Captain
Peter Oxley and Mrs. Oxley, who go off
to Camberley, in Surrey, England, next
month. There tall, pleasant-faced Captain
Oxley, whose forebears, judging by the
look of him, must have come from
Devon or Sussex, will take the 1950 Staff
Course at Camberley College. Captain
Oxley, who has been General Berryman’s
secretary and A.D.C., is widely known,
and he and his girl-wife have made them-
selves very popular. The personnel in
the lovely old Victorian rooms of the
General’s residence were mostly young
officers and their wives, sprinkled over
with colonels and generals and their
wives.
Daughter of the house, Anne
Berryman, was right in the picture of
her surroundings. Her summery silk
cocktail frock was right off the shoulders,
like a Victorian belle’s. Elizabeth North-
cott, the Governor’s daughter, was a
guest, and in the G.H. group was Sheila
Collett. General and Mrs. Pulver and
newly-arrived-from-Melbourne Colonel
McNicoll added their bit to the con-
versation and cocktail piece. Young
schoolboy Richard Berryman helped to
hand round the savories. Mrs. Berry-
man was slim and graceful in an ankle-
length skirt of heavy black crepe allied
to a short-sleeved blouse of the same
material in Persian reds —color, not
politics.
On Friday Mrs. Hope Gibson, so
closely associated with the work of the
Sydney Symphony Orchestra’s sub-
scribers’ committee, goes to Wollongong
to give the committee of the Illawarra
group the benefit of her enthusiasm and
experience. The Illawarra Orchestral
Society is responsible for a series of
brilliant concerts. This is not surprising,
as all-round musician Pat Moore-
McMahon is the conductor for love.
Mr. McMahon studied the violin with
Szigeti in Paris. He is also a scholarly
pianist. On October 31 Sydney pianist
Beatrice Tange goes to Wollongong to
play the piano part in the Grieg Concerto
with the Illawarra Orchestra. She will
also play a group of Chopin. The theatre
holds 2000, and the concerts always have
a full house.
Perhaps it is because the Arts Council
of Australia holds its Sydney parties on
the tenth floor of the Rural Bank that
there is a sort of soaring and buoyant
(no, nothing to do with inflation) air
about them. Last week the Council wel-
comed Sir Angus and Lady Gillan —
he’s taking over as representative of the
British Council in the Commonwealth —
and the Arts came to the party in force.
Mrs. C. R. McKerihan and Dorothy
Helmrich made the introductions. Mrs.
McKerihan’s black silk suit was lit with
a diamond clasp, and her small hat was
beige-pink in tone. Lady Gillan’s black
suit was brightened with flashes of crisp
white.
Two tallest men in the room were
Angus Gillan and the A.B.C.’s Mr.
Boyer. R.A.S. president Erik Langker,
though, had almost as many inches.
Harald Bowden, of the J.C.W. Firm, was
there talking to young Maoriland grand-
opera aspirant Patricia Moore. May
Holiinworth, of the Metropolitan Players,
and Sam Hughes, of the S.U.D.S., and
Frances Scully, of ballet-school fame, ex-
changed greetings. Sir Hugh and Lady
Poynter and Mrs. John Metcalfe of the
National Council of Women, the Hope;
Gibsons —the Killara Music Club owes its
being to her—were among the shifting
groups. And last, but not least, came
the Robert Morleys. And theirs was a
masterly bit of unobtrusive entrance.
Dr. Mary Booth, founder of the
Memorial College of Household Arts,
farewells an old friend:
Miss Ellie Sutherland, who died recently
in Sydney, was one of the founders of the
Women’s Club, now in Beaumont House,
Elizabeth-street, and was for many years
its honorary secretary. The club will enter
its 50th year in 1950. Miss Sutherland
was an early distinguished graduate of the
Sydney University —first-class honors in
literature and winner of Professor Mungo
MacCallum’s Essay prize—a coveted honor
in those days. There was a great friend-
ship between her and Lady Beaumont, wife
of Admiral Beaumont, one of the club’s
early presidents, and herself a distinguished
scholar.
The Women’s Club still retains some-
thing of the flavor of those older years
when its members were mostly young
women trying out their wings in the pro-
fessions and higher academic pastures.
On a soft October afternoon, when
Elizabeth Bay and the Harbor, which he
has so often and so lovingly painted, were
at their dreamy best, artist Sydney Ure
Smith passed through the city for which
he was named for the last time. After
a long and trying illness this great Aus-
tralian, who had given his life to the
furtherance of art in this country, died
last week. For over a quarter of a
century he was president of the Society
of Artists. His great occupation was the
production and publishing of books, just
about perfect in their printing and their
illustrations. Probably no man in Sydney
had more friends. Certainly no man in
Sydney was more deserving of them.
Last week brought news of Mrs. Carl
Wilson having a grand time on her
foreign travels. She has been entertained
by Lord and Lady Gowrie at Windsor
Castle. At the time of writing she was
in Copenhagen, and was on her way to
Sweden—Belgium, France, Italy and so
on being behind her. From London she
goes on to New York and returns to
Australia via the Panama Canal.
A recital of Spanish composers is
seldom heard in Sydney, but Spanish
pianist Mercedes Bebia will give another
recital at the COnservatorium tonight,
October 19. This artist will present works
by Granados, De Falla, Albeniz and so
on.
Mrs. C. T. Lorenz, pictured by Norton
Trevaire, is one of the chief movers to-
wards the founding of the N.S.W.
National Opera Association. Last week’s
masked ball (of course they named it
un ballo in Maschera ) at the Trocadero
was more to publicise the movement than
with any hope of gleaning gold. Still,
the attendance was so good that
even after the Troc. and the taxgatherer
were paid, there should be a few specks
of gold-dust remaining. Mrs. Lorenz
impersonated Donna Elvira of “Don
Giovanni,” and was very elegant in red
velvet. Masks came off at midnight after
a parade of the glittering and spectacular
costumes. These were judged by French
singer Ninon Vallin, direct from her
concert at the Town Hall, Signora Eleanor
Arrighi and Harald Bowden. One gazer
wondered idly if Harald recognised any
of the costumes as old friends from the
J.C.W. wardrobe.
The silks and satins, the powdered hair,
the spreading fans of the “La Traviata”
set were picturesque, and reminiscent of
an Austin Dobson poem. Gwladys
Evans’s set from Purcell’s “Dido and
/Eneas” reminded of British musicianship.
Singer Ninon Vallin’s first murmur to
Erik Langker, who escorted her from the
Troc, entrance, was of food; “I have not
had food since this morning ; some coffee,
please.”
At last week’s Society of Women
Writers’ lunch, Robert Morley and
Sophie Stewart were the guests-of-
honor. Mr. Morley spoke on play-
writing, and gave some very good
hints on the brewing of a good play. His
leading lady, Sophie Stewart, looked like
a modest posy of mignonette in her green
linen suit. J. Q Williamson’s Harald
Bowden and Mrs. Bowden were also at
the top table; so was Mr. Morton Gott-
lieb. Vice-president Mrs. Mary Gaynor,
in her beautifully-enunciated speech, re-
turned thanks. Sam Hughes, of
S.U.D.S. fame, and Mr. Morley had
quite' l a talk on the S.U.D;S. production
of “Macbeth.” Mrs. Gladys Lister
brought the roses for the table decora-
tions and Mrs. Sidney Herring also
brought a cargo of blooms from her
Killara gardens.
From Melbourne
To honor Lady Brookes, who has just
completed 25 years as president of the
Queen Victoria Hospital, members of the
committee and the medical staff, all
women, gave her a luncheon at the hos-
pital. Dr. Marion Wanliss, president of
the medical staff, paid tribute to Lady
Brookes’s “positively Ghurchillian forti-
tude in the face of disaster.” There were
over 50 guests at the beautifully-decorated
luncheon-table. The guest-of-honor wore
a smart grey wool crepe frock and a
flower-trimmed hat. Mrs. H. R. Hamer,
senior vice-president of the committee,
who presented Lady Brookes with a
crocodile-skin bag and a portrait, which
will hang in the hospital committee-room,
added a pastel-pink flower-strewn straw
hat to her black frock. Mrs. A. D.
Wenzel contrasted her black frock with a
garnet-red velvet hat. Black feathers
nodded on the beige hat which topped
Mrs. V. Robertson-Smith’s black en-
semble. Mrs. Albion Walkley’s angora
ensemble was navy. Lady Brookes’s
daughter, Lady Gengoult Smith, was in
black fur-trimmed jacket-suit and small
black hat. Mrs. J. 4 Gilruth had a coat to
match her navy-and-white floral frock.
Alice Michaelis teamed a navy suit and
red felt hat. Members of the Q.V. medical
staff included Ella McKnight, Esme
Anderson, Ann McLeod and Kate
Campbell.
Although Mrs. James Buchanan, the
subject of this Antoine-John Duncan
study, has a medico husband and four
schoolgirl daughters, she has organised
her time to devote service to both the
Whernside auxiliary to the Royal Mel-
bourne Hospital and the Toorak and
South Yarra auxiliary to the Children’s
Hospital. A member of the Victoria
League, Mrs. Buchanan is convenor of
the decoration committee for the League’s
Ball to be held at St. Kilda Town Hall on
October 25. This will be the first ball
attended by the new Governor, Sir Dallas
Brooks, and Lady Brooks. Mrs.
Buchanan is to be seen at all the
symphony concerts. Swimming and
tennis, when she can find time to indulge
in them, are her outdoor recreations.
Over cups of tea a group of women
were entertained in her reception-rooms
by the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. J. S. Disney ;
this was a corollary to the main business,
plans for forming an auxiliary to work
for the Sutherland Homes, which care for
neglected and destitute children, Mrs.
Disney was elected patroness. Lady
Wales, who took the chair at the meeting,
is also on the central committee of the
Homes, and she will also be a member
of the auxiliary. Mesdames A. Wenborn
and Jean Davies gave a brief outline of
the work of the Homes, which aims to
achieve a non-institutional atmosphere.
The auxiliary will make the raising of
£lOOO their objective in the first six
months to provide necessary improve-
ments in the kitchen, improved staff-
quarters and more recreational facilities
for the children. The newly-formed
auxiliary also decided to sponsor a Miss
Sutherland Homes candidate in the Miss
Australia Quest. Keera, only daughter of
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald Cameron, of
Bentleigh, is the candidate. Among those
appointed to office in. the auxiliary were
Mesdames Garnet Curwen and G. Dam-
man as vice-presidents, Mrs. Charles
Davidson, treasurer, and Mrs. M. Whyte,
secretary.
A crowded house saw the second pre-
sentation of ballet at the Princess
Theatre. In the foyer there were a number
of pretty gowns to be seen ; among them
Margot Henry’s geranium-red velvet.
Elna Frank’s taffeta gown was in
blue, green and pink stripes. Pamela
Knox wore a gown of black-and-white-
striped taffeta, while her sister, Mrs. Henry
Steele, teamed a blue floral satin tunic
and black skirt. Pat Brady’s floral gown
was worn under a grey squirrel coat. A
gown of raspberry-red crepe lavishly
trimmed with matching sequins made
striking effect for Mrs. A. C. Haworth.
Mrs. Harold Pike’s black gown had black,
sequin trimming. A white marabou cape
covered the white silk jersey frock worn
by Molly Sheffield. Under dyed ermine
Mrs. Rupert Downes wore a gown of
mist-blue crepe.
At the party given by James Bowen
Pain and his wife in the Matthew Lang
cellars the hostess wore a black faille
frock, the wide-winged collar of which
was lined with shell-pink satin. Over her
black - and - checked frock Mrs.
Everard Baillieu wore a scarlet stole
fringed in black. Madame Rene Henri’s
black frock was slim-fitting. Mrs. S.
Baillieu Myer wore a navy-and-white-
spotted cloche hat with her navy frock.
Mrs. James Buchanan’s ballerina frock
was of black satin-striped faille. Ospreys
trimmed the beige hat Mrs. W. McGowan
wore with her black frock.
The new Tivoli show, “Here from
There,” is a triumph for its woman pro-
ducer, Joan Davis. One scene, with
its constant movement of girl dancers,
beautifully dressed as butterflies, and with
masses of iridescent greens, yellows and
turquoise in the foreground, brings the
jungle to life. In another Joan dresses,
the girls in royal-blue and the male
dancers in matching suits. The opening
ballet is a symphony in bright brown and
Chartreuse, and the decor is in keeping
with the dressing. The usual hair-raising
acts are interspersed with the gay antics
of the Wiere Brothers and the amazing
acrobats, Shirley, Sharon and Wanda. In
the audience were Mrs. Lou Green, her
black hat trimmed with masses of lily of
the valley; Mrs. Gilbert Walsh, in a
brown tulle and taffeta gown ; and Mrs.
Royden Honeyman, a cyclamen flower-
hat worn with her black frock.
Mrs. Norman Robinson, wife of the
V.A.T.C. chairman, was hostess at a large
luncheon-party on Caulfield Cup day.
Among her guests were Lady Herring,
Mrs. T. Hollway and lovely English
actress Diana Wynyard. Lady Herring
wore silver-fox furs with her black wool
ensemble; flat bows of pastel-blue-and-
black-checked ribbon trimmed one side
of the rolled brim of her black hat. Mrs.
Hollway topped her grey suit with a
small grey straw hat which carried match-
ing quills. Miss Wynyard sported a pan-
cake beret in white grosgrain with her
black frock and hip-length mink coat. A
hat of pastel-blue chiffon draped with
blue-and-pink-pleated chiffon and a slate-
blue bird’s-eye wool suit comprised Mrs.
Robinson’s outfit. Mrs. Ken McLean’s
beech-brown suit was in corduroy velvet.
Mrs. G. I. Stevenson effected contrast to
her black face-cloth ensemble with a
winter-white artgora felt hat. Mrs. L. R.
Buxton’s suit in slate-grey tweed checked
in navy was worn with a slate-grey felt
hat.
Mrs. Geoffrey Grirriwade favored beige
in both suit and straw hat. Mrs. Maurice
Nicholas’s ensemble was dove-grey in
tone. Mrs. Arnold Henderson covered
her black frock with a short black
Persian-lamb coat; her small black hat
was trimmed with ribbon bows. A large
bow of black taffeta spotted in lime-green
was splashed across the front of the jacket
of the black duvetyn suit worn by Vera
Pritchard. The unusual lapels were lined
with lime-green, and her small black hat
carried wings in the same shade of lime.
Crossed white wings adorned the small
white felt hat Mrs. A. Colman wore with
a black suit and sables. The flared skirt
of the soft-brown angora frock worn by
Rosalind Martin was banded in matching
velvet. Beige accessories highlighted the
ink-blue tailored suit and straw cloche
worn by Mrs. Norman Carlyon.
Many racegoers went straight from the
cup to the cocktail-party given jointly
by Mesdames C. Day, T. Lewis and Roy
Stewart at the Caulfield home of Mrs.
Day, who greeted guests in a ballerina
frock of cinnamon-brown satin. Mrs.
Lewis’s slim-fitting frock was of black
crepe, beaded at the neckline and featur-
ing a draped skirt. Mrs. Stewart’s frock,
also of black crepe, was beaded and
draped at the waistline, while a floating
back panel added interest to the skirt.
Mrs. Ron Cameron added a wide-
brimmed draped grey felt hat to her grey
tailored suit. Her daughter Keera was in
mustard-yellow tweeds and a brown felt
hat trimmed with tall brown quills. Mrs.
lan Miller covered her black frock with
a blue-fox jacket. A grey draped chiffon
hat, dyed-ermine coat and grey frock
made chic alliance for Mrs. S. Cain. Mrs.
B. Elkins added a fur wrap to her smart
black outfit. Mrs. Keon Cohen’s gown
of black moss crepe . had gold em-
broideries; A brown angora frock with a
satin striped peplum and bustle was worn
by Mrs. Norman Lynch.


Some good suggestions
how to take
c zfhromdhc
SCHNAPPS
• Take it with iced water or soda
straight,
• with a dash of Angostura hitlers
and soda,
• with peppermint and iced
water,
• with cordials (squash, lime,
etc.) and soda water,
• with aerated waters
(lemonade, ginger
ale, etc.),
• or in an ordinary
lemon drink.
ifL******
Vtv
W e *
:°5S'
H AVE ONE A DAY FOR YOUR HEALTH $ SAKE
r
5695D.1.48
A GRAND DOG
Wirehair Terrier
“BEECROFT-BERESINA”
By champ. Flornell Conquest (imp.),
ex champ. Burndale Balalaika. 50
firsts, 10 challenges, 9 reserves. The
record states 6 times best of, breed:
4 times best bitch and twice best
exhibit.
mm
mm
:
1065
CHAMPION
READY RUBBED TOBACCO
Also BRIGHT and DARK Flake Cut for the Pipe,
SUNDRY SHOWS
FULL HOUSE.
A painting is something you
hang in your house to enrich
your mind and decorate the
walls. The Contemporary Art
Society at Sydney Education
Department Galleries makes a
good start by offering you a
house —15 of them, in fact,
designed by Derek Wrigley, D.
B. Snelling, Bunning and Mad-
den, A. N. Baldwinson, Sydney
Ancher (how pleasant to be
anchored in Sydney by this
architect!) and Harry Seidler,
who comes from America.
All these, to a homeless
journalist, look exceedingly
beautiful. Moreover, though
their designs are modern enough,
they look like houses. But the
sculpture figures alongside them
—Loma Lautour’s masks ex-
cepted look like pinheaded
Chinamen or partly-animated
clothes-pegs, and it is very diffi-
cult to imagine them inhabiting
any ordinary house.
The Contemporary show is, in
fact, not so much a gallery of
finished works of art as a
gigantic workroom; and a
great many of the exhibits —J.
B. Mason’s extraordinary con-
structions in brass wire, for in-
stance, looking rather like
abstract line-drawings floating
in space and also like the skeletal
basis for some weird kind of
taxidermy—carry the atmosphere
of the workroom with them.
Paintings, of course, are
easier to fit into a house than
oddments of sculpture. They
sit quietly on the walls, and you
are not likely to find them creep-
ing about the floor and looking
at you. But the paintings at the
Contemporary show are over-
whelming. There seem to be
two large rooms, a prodigious
“Last Supper” hangs perilously
from the ceiling, they overflow
on to screens every five yards or
so, they dazzle your eyes and
they glare behind your back; it
is a cataract, a Niagara of art.
If you had to house them all
—the abstract compositions of
Grace Crowley and R. Balson,
which are really less interesting
than the streak of bare wall
above them, for that at least has
a touch of life about it, the
fingerprints of generations of
art-lovers; the innumerable
enormous exercises in the style
of Sidney Nolan, and Sidney
Nolan’s own exercises ; the acres
of slums ; the pinheaded China-
man that has somehow crept out
of the sculpture-room and into a
picture of bathers; the
mechanical kangaroo; the
w'orkers trudging in chains and
towing a bright red hammer and
sickle ; the quivering brains and
writhing intestines of James
Gleeson’s surrealism —you would
need all the 15 houses designed
by the architects and, having
them, you would probably go
quietly away and live in a tent.
Dazedly, one remembers
thinking that it would be pos-
sible to live with a set of carnival
scenes by Francis Lymburner ;
with Sheila McDonald’s “St.
Aidan’s, Liverpool” ; with Her-
bert McClintock’s character-
study of “The Orator” in a
green suit; with Herbert
Kemble’s “Boy with Apple”;
with C. F. Blomfield’s “Head”
—that looks like the enraged
spectre of Queen Elizabeth;
and, if one owned a country pub
and wanted a large decoration
and didn’t care if it derived from
Sidney Nolan, Carl Plate’s pic-
ture of the yellow wings of a
white cockatoo above a yellow
landscape.
Birds and Bananas.
Two members of the N. S.
Wales Arts and Crafts Society
are holding an unusual exhibi-
tion at Sydney Grosvenor Gal-
leries. Ethleen Palmer submits
color prints which are called
“serigraphs” and are made by a
Silk-screen process.
The landscapes are rather stiff,
but there are some delicately
charming birds, particularly
“Kestrels” and “The Three
Shags.” “Banksia” is a grace-
ful interpretation of the harsh
cones of that old warrior of the
bush. They are the sort of pic-
tures that would admirably suit
a child’s bedroom, and some
might find their way to more
august parts of the house.
Margaret Oppen has bed-
spreads, tablecloths, aprons and
other feminine objects on which
she embroiders designs without
using a sketch or pattern—the
idea being to “draw with the
needle” and thereby gain more
freedom and life than is possible
with a hard, set pattern.
This might open the way for
any noodle to break loose with
a needle, with possibly harrow-
ing results, but Margaret
Oppen’s designs are orderly and
harmonious. Three especially
attractive scarves are printed
with a design based on the
banana palm, and there is an
apron embroidered on a “hand-
woven linen” from Phormium
tenax, the flax from which all
right-minded small boys in New
Zealand make stockwhips and
from which the Maoris used to
weave their clothes.
Ninon Vallin.
Ninon Vallin, the French lyric
soprano, opened her short
Sydney season with a programme
devoted almost entirely to
French songs. Even two by
Chopin must be classed in that
category—Chopin was half-
French, he spent most of his
adult life in Paris and most of
his songs are in the flavor of the
French school. The exception
was “Butterfly’s Air,” from the
Puccini opera—this was given
with great feeling, splendid con-
trol of tone and a magnificent
high finishing note.
It is doubtful if, in the pure
delineation of sound and in the
effortlessness and the artistry
with which she sings, Madame
Vallin has a living peer—cer-
tainly none surpasses her. She
makes no blatant appeal to the
mob ; her art is subtle and it is
in the songs of delicacy and re-
finement that her warm, limpid
voice revels —Reynaldo Hahn’s
“Exquisite Hour,” for instance,
where the voice weaves through
the delicate tracery of the piano’s
notes, and in Faure’s “Autumn,”
a nostalgic sigh of lost youth, .
Some rarely-heard old French
songs made up the final group;
each a reflection of the folk-lore
of rural France. Of these the
best was the Bretagne air, “Song
of the Nightingale,” and into it
the singer poured all the com-
plexities of her art, including a
yearning which gave the voice
depth and color. To show that
she can do full justice not only
to the songs of her own country,
the soprano went to the north
for encores, including a beautiful
piece of singing in Grieg** “A
Dream.”
Klemperer.
According to the programme,
Shostakovich’s Ninth Symphony,
given its Australian premiere
with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra under Klemperer, has
“joyous abandon, the warm pul-
sations of life and the exuber-
ance of youth,” with “even
hints of Haydn,” What did
Haydn do to deserve that?
After about eight measures the
“symphony” nose-dives into the
usual Shostakovich woolly-
minded thinking, at which level
it continues to the end. A cer-
tain wit is also claimed for it.
Russian music has produced but
one real wit Moussorgsky,
and he was brilliant. Shostako-
vich’s “wit” cavorts along like
a diver dancing on the seabed.
The orchestra projected it-
self straight into world class
with the opening work, the
Overture, Nocturne and Scherzo
from Mendelssohn’s “Midsum-
mer Night’s Dream.” Not since
its inception has the orchestra
played with such elan, such
massed beauty of tone and such
a lively appreciation of the
special qualities of a work. The
playing of the hymn-like Noc-
turne and the lilting Scherzo
gave the impression of perfect
rehearsing carried over into per-
formance of effortlessness and
high confidence. Klemperer’s
own “Little Overture,” a pleasant
morsel lightly classical in vein,
and a sparkling rendition of
Haydn’s “Farewell” Symphony,
the end marred by a misplaced
outburst of clapping as the last
two fiddles were left playing
while the conductor walked off,
completed the night.
"Duet For Two Hands."
Plays written on epigram-
matic ideas are in danger of
falling into melodrama if the
writing is not as brilliant as the
idea. The idea of grafting the
hands of a man hanged for a
murder he did not do upon a
poet who has lost his hands in
a climbing accident, the hands
then seeking vengeance, is cer-
tainly brilliant; but the writing
in Mary Hayley Bell’s “Duet For
Two Hands,” which begins
naturally, ends with an invented
and melodramatic crime which
hardly carries even theatrical
conviction.
The Globe Players, who pro-
duced the show for the Kuringai
Guild, Killara, and will give
further performances all this
week at 2KY auditorium, Syd-
ney, made probably as much as
could be made of it. As surgeon
Sarclet’s hoyden daughter,
Dorothy Riddell was as beauti-
fully credible as one of her
roses, fresh and natural at every
turn of the character’s develop-
ment ; as her father’s sister
Jackie Kott was so incredibly
beautiful that any emotion other
than grace seemed hardly to be-
come her; as the surgeon James
Workman was a shade too
workmanlike, though he had a
coarse and complicated charac-
ter to put over; John Hoskin
was much better as the young
poet than as the young melo-
dramatic actor.
Between them, in a well-staged
living-room in the Orkneys, they
gave some excellent naturalistic
acting, a few spasms of real ex-
citement and one or two bright
remarks, the best of which was
“You are too imaginative, Abi-
gail; why don’t you go to Eng-
land for a while?”
Eugene Goossens made his
first Australian appearances
after his return from the Edin-
burgh Music Festival in Bris-
bane, conducting the Queens-
land Symphony Orchestra
through Delius’s “A Song of
Summer,” Holst’s “A Somerset
Rhapsody,” the “Flying Dutch-
man” Overture, Dvorak’s “New
World” and the Beethoven
Fourth Symphony. Goossens
seems able to combine the
slender resources of the Queens-
land orchestra better than any
other visitor.
Addressing the final Youth
Concert for this year he dis-
missed as absurd the Queens-
land State Government’s an-
nouncement that it was yet “un-
timely” to establish a Queens-
land Conservatorium. Almost
by way of illustrating this need
the featured soloist of the con-
cert was Queensland pianist
Dulcie Sampson, whose training
had to be completed in the
south. At the subscription con-
cert three nights later Frank
Hutchens and Lindley Evans,
presenting their own composi-
tions under the baton of the
director of the Sydney Con-
servatorium, added weight to
Goossens’s argument.
* * * *
The New South Wales Postal
Institute Musical Society made
a good fist of “The Vagabond
King” at Sydney Con. Pro-
ducer DarvaU R. Thomas staged
a well-trained team of young
people, Frank Ryan’s orchestra
gave a good rendering of Rudolf
Friml’s music and June Lon-
don’s dancing girls were easy to
watch. Guy Hart, as Villon,
was a suitably romantic swash-
buckler, Nancy Luciane made a
charming Katherine and Carol
Chadwick an attractive Hugu-
ette, Bert Wrightwood fitted the
role of Louis XI and Don Booth
made a comic figure of Oliver.


"QUITE A BLOW"
By STANDBY
(R. S. PORTEOUS)
HIS name was Swinsby. Not a very
imposing name, but then there
was nothing imposing about the
man. He was short and thin,
almost frail-looking, with pale-blue
watery eyes and a habit of carrying his
shoulders hunched forward so that he
looked slightly deformed. His hair, what
little there was of it, was grey and always
untidy.
I first met him when I joined the old
Tekowi as mate. She was no crack liner,
that old ship—only a small, coal-burning
coaster on the Brisbane-Darwin run —but
I boarded her feeling well pleased with
myself. Small as she was she spelt pro-
motion for me, a step-up from second-
to first-mate. I didn’t feel so pleased
when I met her master, Captain Swinsby,
He was pacing up and down outside his
cabin, a small, unprepossessing, hunched-
up old man. His white uniform was
wrinkled and ill-fitting, on his head was
an old felt hat, and his bare feet were
thrust into heelless leather slippers that
flip-flapped on the deck as he walked.
I introduced myself, though I’d never
have believed he was the master had it
, not been for the four-barred epaulettes
on his shoulders. Later I learned that he
detested uniforms, and only wore them
because the company insisted. The uni-
form was a concession to the owners, the
felt hat and the slippers an assertion of
his own tastes.
“Mead?” he said, pausing in his walk
to glance incuriously at me. “Oh, yes.
You’re the new mate. You’ll find Mr.
Matson, the second-mate, up for’ard.
He’ll show you around. Been with the
ship ever since she was launched.”
He resumed his flip'-flap pacing and I
turned away in disgust. His offhanded
passing-over of me to the second-mate
was so much on a par with his general
appearance that I wondered how anyone
could have been foolish enough to entrust
him with a command.
Matson, I discovered, was a stolid,
thickset individual who certainly looked
as if, he’d been with the ship since she was
launched. I judged him to be approach-
ing his sixties. Utterly lacking in imagina-
tion or ambition, he was one of those
men who are content to end their days as
second-mates, always shirking the respon-
sibilities that promotion brings.
POURING the next few weeks I saw
nothing that altered my first impres-
sions of Captain Swinsby. He seldom
spoke, even to Matson, who had been ship-
mates with him for years, and I never
heard him give a definite order. Some-
times when I was on watch he came up
to the bridge ; but he didn’t interfere, just
walked slowly up and down with his
wretched slippers going flip-flap along the
deck. Usually I cursed him under my
breath for getting in my way.
He always arrived when I was parti-
cularly busy taking bearings and plotting
the ship’s position, when we were skirt-
ing a reef or making a turn in the narrow
Torres Strait waters. When we were in
clear, open water and I had time on my
hands I saw nothing of him. Being young
and full of my own sense of importance
in those days it never occurred to me
that his visits could be timed to coincide
with the danger-points. He was so dis-
interested, so ineffectual. He didn’t give
orders or even advice, he didn’t take bear-
ings or enter the chart-room to check the
ship’s position; just flip-flapped up and
down with his hands thrust into his
pockets, and Ms shoulders hunched for-
ward like a pensive old vulture. And
then, when I found time to relax a little,
he’d disappear down the ladder.
Once, when we were approaching a
submerged danger marked on the charts
as Dugdale Rock, I came down from the
standard compass to find him standing
on the lower bridge. There isn’t much
sea-room in that particular spot. To
avoid hitting the rock a careful bearing
must be maintained on Chapman Island
light. The Old Man wasn’t even looking
at the distant steel light-tower, he was
staring up at two squabbling seagulls
fighting noisily for possession of the truck
of our foremast,
“You’d think there wasn’t room for
the two of ’em up there, the way they
squabble,” he remarked, turning his
watery blue eyes on me. They fascinated
me, those eyes. Always seemed to be on
the point of brimming over and yet they
never quite did. He moved away with-
out waiting for an answer, but after a
few steps he turned. “Nasty rock, that
Dugdale Rock, mister,” he said in the
same disinterested tone. “Never shows.
A very easy rock to hit.”
I said “Yes, sir. I was keeping well
clear of it.” But his slippers were
already flapping down the ladder.
'T'KINGS went on like that for three
1 or four voyages. In my private
opinion it would have made no difference
to the ship if Captain Swinsby had stayed
ashore. He was simply there to comply
with a regulation that every ship must
carry a qualified master. Certainly he
always took the Tekowi in and out of
port. I had to admit that he did it quite
well, but it wasn’t a difficult job. She
was a good ship to handle, and I flattered
myself that I could have put her alongside
just as well or better.
As the Tekowi carried only two mates
the Old Man always stood the morning
eight-to-twelve watch, but apart from that
I don’t know how he put in the time. On
one occasion I got an insight into what
must have been his only hobby. We had
to land a survey-party on a lonely stretch
of the coast. A study of the chart showed
that we would have to anchor two miles
off-shore and then use one of the boats.
A small tidal inlet seemed to offer the
best landing-place. I showed Matson its
position on the chart and said,
“You’d better study this carefully,
Second. You’ll be in charge of the boat.”
“Did the Old Man say so?” he asked.
“No,” I snapped. “I said so.”
I don’t know how it was, but without
ever alluding to my age these two old
fellows always made me feel like a mere
schoolboy or at best a first-year
apprentice.
“I think you’ll find the Old Man’s tak-
ing ’er in himself,” Matson ventured
mildly. “He ain’t ever been ashore in
this particular spot, and he’s a bit of a
crank for pokin’ into strange places.
Hardly a creek on this coast he ain’t been
into at some time or another.”
He was right, of course; he knew the
Old Man a lot better than I did. Captain
Swinsby took charge of the boat as if it
was a perfectly natural thing for the
master to be taking over the junior
officer’s job.
I didn’t even remark on the strangeness
of his behavior. Already I’d come to a
very satisfactory conclusion about my
appointment to the Tekowi. Swinsby was
a back-numbfer, a has-been, though I
doubted if he had ever been much good.
As a figurehead or at every 7 day routine
stuff he might be right enough, but in an
emergency, in a situation calling for real
seamanship and initiative, he’d be abso-
lutely hopeless. Knowing this, the com-
pany had looked around for a smart, up-
and-coming young officer to take his
place. And I was the man. I was very
young and too ignorant to have even the
beginnings of an inferiority complex in
those days. It never occurred to me that
.1 could have been put there to learn some-
thing from a man who knew more about
the sea than I would ever know.
("hN our next trip south, trouble leaped
on us out of the night as we were
threading our way through the narrow,
reef-infested inner route between Thurs-
day Island and Cooktown.
Few stretches of navigable water in the
world are so confined, so hemmed in by
hidden reefs and shoals as this Inner
Passage. Countless small islands dot the
course, but they are so small, so low-
lying, that they are more in the nature
of menaces than aids to navigation. There
is, perhaps, one favorable thing about
this route. The outer reefs of the Great
Barrier break up the ocean swell so that
inside it is usually calm.
It was calm enough when I handed
over the watch to Matson at midnight,
though a southerly breeze was springing
up, and there was a definite cloud-bank
on the southern horizon. The barometer,
too, was low for that time of the year, but
I had no thought of cyclones as I entered
the reading in the log. The cyclone season
on the Queensland coast usually extends
from late December to March, and this
was the first week in November. I
nearly bumped into Captain Swinsby as
I stepped out of the chart-room. I was
wondering why he was on the bridge at
midnight on a clear, starry night when he
said:
“What’s the glass doing, mister?”
' I told him the reading and he nodded.
“We’re in for a bad blow,” he said.
“There’s a cyclone not far off. You’d
better get some sleep while you can,
mister. I’ll stay here.”
If he chose to spend the night on the
bridge that was his affair. As for me, I
had four hours’ sleep coming tcume and
I wasn’t going to waste one minute of
them.
For once I awoke without being called,
roused from a deep sleep by a steady
drumming roar. Obviously the ship was
being driven hard, for the engines were
going faster than I had ever heard them
turn. Their vibrations rattled the cabin
bulkhead. But it wasn’t only the engines.
Another noise was coming from outside.
I stepped out on deck and discovered the
cause of it. It was wind—wind that
struck me like a blow from some huge
padded fist, forcing me aft till I was liter-
ally running backwards along the deck.
I grabbed frantically at a stanchion and
brought myself up with a jerk that nearly
tore my arms out of their sockets. Rain
was driving horizontally along the deck,
lashing my body painfully through my
thin pyjamas. Clawing from one hand-
hold to another I struggled back to my
cabin. I dressed hurriedly, pulling sea-
boots, oilskin and sou’wester over shirt
and trousers. The time, I noticed, was
three-thirty.
pAPTAIN SWINSBY and the second-
mate were both on the bridge when
I arrived. Rain was crashing against the
heavy plate-glass of the bridge windows,
and the whole bridge structure was vibrat-
ing under the wind-pressure. The roar of
the heavier gusts made speech difficult.
even in this well-protected enclosure. If
you had anything to say you waited for a
lull. Just abaft our beam and very close
to us I could see the wet blur of a blink-
ing light—feeble, watery streaks in the
blackness of the night. Four quick
flashes I counted, and recognised it as the
light on Waterwitch Reef.
Edging close to the Old Man I said
“My God, skipper, it’s blowing!”
He treated that fatuous remark with the
silence it deserved, and moved away to
caution the helmsman about his steering.
There was something strange about his
appearance, but I couldn’t think what it
was until he bent over the lighted
binnacle. The light glistened on his wet
oilskin, but it was his headgear that really
attracted my attention. He was wearing
his felt hat lashed down with several
lengths of spun-yarn tied under his chin
in a huge bow. The general effect was
ridiculously like an old-fashioned poke-
bonnet.
We were groping our way blindly
through a maze of reefs. On our port-
hand lay the imperfectly-charted labyrinth
of coral that goes to make up the Great
Barrier; to starboard were shoals and
foul ground. Directly ahead of us lay
Bow Reef, a small outcrop of coral
marked with a black square beacon.
Normally we would alter course as we
approached it and pass half a mile off the
beacon. On a clear night the turn could
easily be made by a bearing on Water-
witch Light, but tonight Waterwitch
would be no help to us; already the rain
was obscuring its quick flashes.
It was a dangerous situation I felt
should never have arisen. A prudent,
competent master would have anchored
in the lee of Waterwitch Reef. But we
were barging blindly into the teeth of the
worst gale I had ever met with, and
instead of a competent master the ship
and the lives of all in her were in the
hands of this absurd, ineffectual little old
man in a poke-bonnet!
HOPING to make him realise the
gravity of the situation I moved
across and asked him what he intended to
do.
“Eh?” he said, glancing up from the
lighted compass-card. “Do? Oh, keep
on. It’s the only thing we can do. We’re
only making five knots, so we should pick
up Bow Reef beacon in daylight.”
Five knots! Little more than half our
normal speed in spite of the increased
engine revolutions! There was no big
sea running. We were bucking into a
short steep chop, and, because our holds
were almost empty, were pounding a
little. Certainly that pounding could take
a knot or so off our speed, but it wouldn’t
reduce it to five knots. It could only be
the terrific wind-pressure on our high
superstructure that was holding us back.
“Do you think we’ll ever pick up the
beacon, sir?” I asked. “Even in daylight,
with this rain?”
“Oh, yes,” he said. “It’s only coming
in squalls at present. It’s come on very
suddenly. Don’t ever remember seeing a
bad blow come with so little warning, but
with any luck the worst of it won’t come
for a few hours.”
I was going to ask him what he in-
tended doing if it did get worse, but he
moved away and spoke to the second-
mate. Something about standing by, he
said. Anyhow, Matson did not go off for
his watch below. I don’t know what good
his presence did. For an hour and a half
we didn’t see a thing except the faint, wet
halo around our masthead light and the
dim shape of our fo’c’sle-head.
Occasionally we caught a gleam of white
as a wave curled over in a burst of phos-
phorescence, When the heavy rain-
squalls hit us even these near-by things
were hidden.
DAYLIGHT found us pounding along
against driving rain and a wind that
was rising in great whooping gusts. A


careful check of the log showed that our
speed had dropped to four knots. Half
an hour later we picked up Bow Reef
beacon, a faint square shape rearing itself
out of a welter of dirty foam where the
breakers swirled across the reef. We were
due to alter course again here so as to
pass a mile and a half off Ellis Island, but
instead the Old Man ordered me to run
off a course straight for the island.
Inwardly I said “Thank God. He’s
going to anchor in the lee of Ellis.” It
was obvious that we couldn’t keep up
this blind groping for landmarks in the
ever-worsening visibility. Sooner or later
we would miscalculate our leeway and
pile up on a reef. To add to our worries
the tide was at three-quarter flood, allow-
ing what must have been a tremendous
ocean swell to surge over the outer reefs
in a confused, broken, sea. The old
Tekowi was thumping her nose into it
and flinging sheets of spray clear over
her bridge. Admittedly Ellis Island was
far from being an ideal anchorage, but
it was a case of any port in a storm.
The man who marked Ellis on the chart
as an island must have had a sense of
humor, for it is nothing but a narrow
sand-strip less than half a mile long and
a tenth of a mile wide. The highest point
of it is only six feet above high-water. A
few stunted bushes grow on the summit,
but by far the most outstanding feature
of the island is the big black square
beacon standing a full twenty feet above
the tallest bush
Approaching Ellis from the north-west,
as we were, the island is steep-to, but on
the south and eastern sides a coral reef
extends for over two miles. Even at high-
water when the reef would be covered I
felt it would offer us some measure of
protection from the force of the sea. And
we’d be in need of protection if things
got any worse! Since daylight the wind
had shifted steadily to the eastward, a
sure sign that they would.
“YOU’LL be anchoring in the lee of
* Ellis Island, I suppose, sir?” I said
to the Old Man.
He smiled at me, and from under the
brim of his absurd poke-bonnet his blue,
watery eyes regarded me with something
like pity.
“No, mister,” he answered. “I won’t.”
He nodded towards the chart-room.
“Come in here and I’ll show you what I
intend to do.” Bending over the chart
he picked up the dividers and indicated
a tiny inlet on the coast almost opposite
Ellis. “Do you see this place? I’m taking
the ship in there.”
I examined the locality closely. The
chart showed shallows extending two
miles offshore. It showed outlying reefs,
and a shaded section indicated that the
mouth of the inlet dried at low water.
“But, my God, skipper!” I exclaimed.
“You couldn’t get the ship in there!
There isn’t enough water to get within a
mile of the place. Besides, we don’t know
anything about it, the extent of these
reefs or anything.”
*7 do,” he answered. “I took a boat
in there once, nearly five years ago. It’s
a snug little anchorage once you get in-
side.”
Once you get inside! That was just
it. It was one thing to take a ship’s life-
boat in there in fine weather, but quite
another to take a steamer in through those
shallows in a howling gale and blinding
rain-squalls. Even if he could see land-
marks, how could any man memorise
what he’d only seen once, and that five
years ago?
"THE Old Man must have read my
1 thoughts, for he smiled and said, “My
memory isn’t failing yet, young fellow.”
He tapped the back of my hand with the
dividers. “I’m going to tell you a few
things, for your own good. You’re young
and ambitious. With a few hard knocks
and a bit of experience you should make
a good seaman. Never forget this. Our
job is ninety-eight per cent, routine, but
if we ever lose sight of that other two
per cent, it’s time we swallowed the
anchor because, sooner or later, we’ll find
ourselves called on to make a big de-
cision, one where no previous experience
or book of rules can help us. When that
times comes we can only weigh the facts
carefully, make a decision and stick to
it.”
He emphasised the point by bringing
his fist down with a bang on the chart-
table. I looked into his face, and quite
suddenly I saw a side of Captain Swinsby
I’d never seen before. His blue eyes were
just as watery as ever, but behind the
moisture they were hard, hard and un-
wavering. And his jaw! Strange that
I’d never noticed that jaw before. It
jutted forward aggressively, compressing
his mouth in a thin, hard line.
“Ellis Island would never save us from
the blow that’s coming,” he went on
quietly. “There’s a lot worse to come.
If we stay out here and try to battle it
out we won’t stand a chance. We’ve got
no sea-room. Both anchors and a full
head of steam wouldn’t keep us from
drifting on to the reefs. In the next few
hours you’re going to see a blow that will
tax your powers of comprehension.” He
stated the facts as calmly as if he’d been
announcing his intention of going down
to breakfast. “In another hour it will be
high water. We’re approaching spring
tides, which means we’ll have an extra
nine feet of water over those shallows.
We’re drawing eight-foot-six aft, so we’ve
got a fair margin of safety. The worst
feature of the lot is the visibility, but I’m
counting on a few breaks in the rain.”
“And if we don’t get the breaks, sir?”
“If we don’t,” he said, “it’s quite pos-
sible that I’ll pile the old girl up on a reef,
rip the bottom clean out of her.” The
corners of his mouth twitched upwards
in a lopsided, whimsical grin. “You’re
young and strong. You might get ashore.
And then, if you’re picked up, you can
tell ’em that that old fool Swinsby drove
his ship on to a lee shore in spite of your
advice to anchor at Ellis.”
\ A/E stepped out on to the bridge, and
V V j couldn’t help wondering how we’d
ever pick up Ellis Island in that grey
waste of tumbled sea and driving rain. I
had the impression that we were just pile-
driving up and down in the one place
while the tortured sea slid past underneath
us and dirty, ragged clouds streamed
overhead. Actually it took us an hour to
do the three and a half miles from Bow
Reef.
At 6.15 we sighted Ellis Island. Per-
haps that is not quite correct, for the seas
were breaking clean over the tops of the
bushes. We had an occasional glimpse
of what might have been bushes among
the breakers, but we did see the black
square beacon, a vague, strangely un-
familiar mark that leaned crazily over
under the terrific wind. That beacon was
set in concrete, stayed at the four corners
with heavy cables, but even as we stared
at it it collapsed and vanished in a sheet
of flying spray. And with it went any
illusions I had about Ellis Island as a
possible anchorage.
Captain Swinsby brought the ship
around at once and steadied her on a
course of south seventy west. With wind
and sea now abaft the beam the Tekowi’s
pounding changed to a sharp wallowing
motion. The wind-pressure kept her
heeled over to starb’d, but at last she was
really moving. Compared with our plod-
ding progress she went fairly roaring
along.
Six miles to go! Six miles to what, I
wondered. To safety or to certain de-
struction? The odds, I felt, were too
heavy against us. I thought longingly of
my life-jacket. It was down in my cabin,
but I was hanged if I’d ask permission to
get it while that wizened-up, watery-eyed
little old man went without one. I
glanced from my own sea-booted feet to
his, and I’m blowed if he wasn't still wear-
ing his slippers!
pAPTAIN SWINSBY called the
' second-mate over. “Go for’ard and
rouse Chips,” he said. “Clear both
anchors. You won’t hear anything but
keep your eyes on me. When I hold up
a hand, let go. Don’t try to check your
cables. Let ’em run till I show a hand
again. And both of you watch out you
don’t get blown overboard. Understand?
You’ll be no help to me in the water.”
We watched Matson ease himself
cautiously down the ladder, and then, after
ordering the standby seaman to be ready
to work the engine-room telegraph, the
Old Man turned to me.
“I’m keeping you with 1 me,” he ex-
plained, “because you might learn some-
thing. Matson never will. Besides, you've
got better eyesight than he has and we’ll
need good eyes. Up top with me. And
hang on.”
He headed for the ladder leading up to
the standard compass with me following.
I was young and strong, but I needed all
my strength to claw my way up that
ladder. I clung to it as a mountaineer
might cling to a projection on the face
of a perpendicular cliff, feeling that if the
wind didn’t tear me loose it would at
least rip the clothes from my body. And
always those wretched slippers were two
steps above my hands. Heaven knows
how they stayed on his feet, but then
Heaven knows how that little old man
hauled himself up that ladder. Did I say
he was frail? He looked it, but his
muscles must have had the pliant strength
of steel hawsers.
If it was a struggle to climb the ladder
it was a continuous battle to stay on the
exposed platform of “Monkey Island.” I
had experienced gales before, and if I
thought of them at all it was as imper-
sonal things, strong winds that pressed
against you, forcing you to turn your
back and hunch your shoulders for pro-
tection, But this wind was nothing like
that. It was personal in its savage fury.
It battered me, mauling me like an in-
furiated wrestler seeking to tear his
opponent apart limb by limb. I grasped
the rail with both hands, half expecting
it to rip out of the deck and go hurtling
over the side with me still clinging fran-
tically to it.
Captain Swinsby practically wrapped
himself around the standard compass,
crouching over it so that he looked as
much a part of it as a shellfish glued to
its rock. Speech, of course, was impos-
sible. To open one’s mouth facing the
wind would have invited instant suffoca-
tion. An order or a warning shouted
downwind would have been torn to pieces
as it left the lips, drowned in the roar of
the gale that was like the continuous roll
of thunder occasionally rising to a wail-
ing shriek as the wind split itself on the
funnel-stays just behind us.
The violence of it combined with the
lashing rain was numbing my very brain
and depriving me of the power to think.
As a ship’s officer I was useless, as a
spectator I could see a waste of confused
and broken grey water, tattered grey
clouds that raced past just above our
masthead, and all around us, completely
isolating us and blotting out all trace of
the land ahead, was a curtain of lashing
rain.
J DON’T know how long I clung there
1 before realising we were in the shal-
lows. I could feel it in*the jerky move-
ments of the ship as if she sensed the
bottom close under her keel and was
shying away from the danger. The sea
was a dirty brown, discolored by churned-
up sand. Directly ahead of us, and so
close that I could see the ugly black
niggerheads of dead coral half-bared in
the troughs of the waves, was a reef. I
tried to shout then. The effort was
quite useless, of course, but the Old Man
had already seen the danger. His mouth
was pressed into the speaking-tube and
the ship’s head was swinging in obedience
to his order.
Our first glimpse of land was as faint
and shadowy as a motion-picture pro-
jected on to a screen in broad daylight,
yet I judged it to be less than half a mile
away. Through the rain we glimpsed
dim outlines of breakers crashing against
a stretch of low coast, a bold tree-clad
point and, just to leeward of the point, a
narrow inlet, the bar across its entrance
a smother of dirty yellow foam.
Captain Swinsby lifted the heavy brass
cover from the binnacle and I saw the
wind tear it from his grasp and fling it
far out to leeward. That cover must have
weighed ten pounds, yet it sailed away
like a child’s toy balloon.
The Old Man wasn’t worrying about
its loss; he was taking a bearing on the
inlet, an unnecessary precaution, as it
turned out, for we never lost sight of the
opening. A few minutes after we sighted
the bar we were on it, really on it, for
the old ship thumped down with a jar
that fairly rattled her. The next wave
lifted her and she dragged herself over.
We were in deeper water then with the
inlet swinging in behind the high point
to form a small landlocked anchorage.
THE Tekowi made the turn grudgingly,
drifting broadside-on as she brought
the wind on her beam. To me it was
obvious that she could never fight her
way around sufficiently to face that wind.
I was wondering why the Old Man didn’t
give the order to let go the anchors be-
fore we were blown ashore when I saw
the cables racing silently over the revolv-
ing windlass. Who ever heard of ship’s
cables going down silently? Yet of all
the clattering roar they must have been
making, not the faintest sound reached
us. Along the point trees were bowed
almost to the ground, writhing in agony
as great limbs were torn from them and
tossed across the anchorage like feathers
before the gale.
I felt the ship lurch heavily and then
straighten up on an even keel. Matson
and Chips were screwing up the windlass
brakes, I saw, but it wasn’t the anchors
that had brought her up. She wasn’t
facing up to them properly. The only
other explanation was that we’d run
aground. The Old Man was already
dragging himself towards the ladder and
I wasted no time in following him.
Aground or afloat I felt that any longer
on that exposed platform and I’d be
battered unconscious by the wind.
In the comparative shelter of the lower
bridge I struggled to regain my breath
and at the same time announce my dis-
covery.
“Skipper,” I gasped. “We’re aground.”
He stood there with one hand on the
telegraph, this quaint-looking little old
man. Rain dripped from his absurd
headgear and trickled down his lined
face.
“I hope so,” he said. The telegraph
was at Stop. He jerked the handle to
and fro several times and left the indi-
cator at Finished with engines. “It’s a
good blue-mud bottom in here,” he
added. “That should hold her.”
It did. The Old Man had run her
aground on a falling tide and she sat
there undamaged through a cyclone that
tore houses from their foundations, sank
nearly half the pearling fleet and piled
a ten-thousand-ton freighter high up on
a reef. We had to wait three days for
a tide big enough to float us off, but what
was three days’ delay and the loss of
one binnacle-cover in one of the worst
gales ever seen on that coast?
I T was while we were viewing the utter
A desolation of uprooted trees and
twisted, leafless trunks left behind by the
cyclone that Captain Swinsby remarked
“Quite a blow, wasn’t it?”
“I’d never have believed such a wind
was possible,” I admitted.
“Do you think you learned anything
from the experience?”
“Yes, sir,” I said slowly. “I learned a
hell of a lot.”
I didn’t tell him, but, judging from the
look of amusement in those watery blue
eyes, I think he guessed, that the one big
lesson I had learned was never to judge
a man by his looks.
SARAH LORTON.
Was hunting bigger prey and came upon
her —
Sarah Lorton, with her death about her.
Through another old year seeking
another —
Hugh Niven, the young overlander from
Sydney,
Son of Daniel Niven, merchant, Glasgow,
Killed by his horse at Sutherland’s Creek
in ’thirty-nine .
It was to fill out this man’s obsequies and
round his story.
That I searched in the stone keep where
cobwebs tether book to book
In a grey chain of time for the recorder.
Calm on the yellowing page was Sarah’s
name,
How, her poor shift for shroud,
She was buried to the kind words of
Andrbw Love —
First pastor here, and she his pastoral
grieve —
Sarah Lorton, with her death upon her.
“By drowning, a poor female, aged forty.”
But she was younger — thirty-three —
When she slipped from the bank below
the immigrant barracks,
With a pitcher to fill at Barwon Break-
water,
That hot Thursday in December eighteen
forty.
But no Ophelia in long purples palled,
With noble youth to garland her young
beauty,
She floated down the stream remembering
The tears of little things that make us
glad:
The lacquer on a cat-faced button-box,
VICTORIA.
Red velvet curtains, yellow kitchen
clocks —
While black swans, plumed and stately on
the green.
Were Caroline Newcomb, Charlotte
Fisher, riding
Down the flanks of Strawberry Hill to
dole out tracts
To the brickmakers blue in the stubborn
marsh clay.
{“To make them good, and keep the drink
away.”
O sidelong gait that, after grog-shop ships,
Stumps slugfoot home to iceberg eyes and
hearts /)
The stench of mutton-fat, the barracks
fires.
Sealed off the river mist on Sarah’s day.
Though voice to voice rings down the
hollow years.
Always death leaps the threshold where
our ears
Take over from the past.
Almost hear them now :
David Fisher, testy when old because no
one
Could well remember all that he had
seen ;
Andrew Love, whose voice was all
affection.
Most dear in consolation ;
And Fyans, with the bite of Ulster mulled
By twenty years of warm colonial days.
This side of life she had no time to spare ;
But there —
Where Sarah’s gone —
No conscience tolls a passing-bell for
pleasure.
They pluck blanched flowers in the
valley of the moon,
Sarah Lorton and her death together.
MARY FINNIN.


Green Beetle
By BRIAN
JAMES
Officialdom, which so loves to
control the lives and thoughts and
actions of all men, had cast its
eyes balefully, then contemptu-
ously, upon the Green Beetle —oldest and
least of all the buses that lined the curb.
And officialdom had decided that the
Green Beetle was not big enough to “take
over” —and run at a handsome public
loss.
It told George Henderson, Prop., in
effect, that he could keep on running his
blasted Green Beetle —it demeaned the
status of the Green Beetle to that of
“feeder service,” and let it go at that.
GEORGE was forty, fat, dumpy and
ugly. In his proper place—at the
wheel of the Green Beetle —he looked
well enough and fitted into the general
scheme. But away from his bus he looked
incongruous and quite impossible.
He had a waddling walk, and he would
persist in the wearing of a beige-colored
dustcoat that would persist in looking like
a maternity gown. George’s black hair
was short and stiff and scanty, and grew
straight up like the bare sticks of a scrub
after a bushfire has swept over the ridge ;
and his face was big and squat and round,
like a full moon that has somehow risen
at the wrong time and is much surprised
at its remissness. But George’s eyes, large
and wide-set, were good to see, for in
their grey-greenness was a kindliness that
showed no boredom at the goodness of
life —in spite of everything.
In short, George’s only-too-patent ugli-
ness was of the wholesome masculine
kind that indicated human nature was
worthwhile still. After that you didn’t
notice that George was ugly at all.
That George was proud of the Green
Beetle goes without saying, for he was
part of it —the very soul of it. The green
shard of its outer covering was always
sheeny bright; and after every trip
George waddled round the beloved, and
with a soft rag gave effortless flicks and
rubs that wiped away all stains of the
recent journey. Inside, similar flicks with
the rag removed any dust from the seats,
and a carelessly-handled short broom
licked up such foreign matter as cigarette-
butts, dead matches, ice-cream spoons,
paper wrappings from lollies and so forth.
Then George lit himself a cigarette, and
most placidly surveyed the world through
his own windscreen. And greeted people
he knew —which meant about everyone
in sight. When George said good-day—
or words to that effect —the day was all
the better for it, just because George
really believed that all days were good,
and the broad desert of his face would
light up for all the world like a burst of
sunshine on some sheer blank wall.
That was the Parramatta end of his
run, when the Green Beetle would be tak-
ing its place in the long line of the big
buses that were too high and mighty to
recognise the existence of anything so
obscure as a Green Beetle. But the drivers
and conductors —all sprucely uniformed
—showed plainly that they deemed
George a good fellow—a bit different, of
course—and that they were not holding
the Green Beetle against him in any way.
“How goes it, George?” it went, and
George always replied, “Well, I’m not
complaining.” Or it might be, “They
haven’t got you yet, George?” And
George would grin widely and declare,
“Not yet.” Who was likely to get him,
or was for ever watching to get him, was
not stated, but George’s grin plainly in-
timated it was someone from “down
below”—ready to give him another nip inf
the flank . . . “Can you move back a
wee bit, George, just a yard—l can’t get
out?” And George says “We’ll try, any-
how.” The Green Beetle in reverse moves
back a yard, and several inches more, to
allow a huge yellow monster to begin its
journey . . •.
'T' HEN the Green Beetle begins to take
* in those early ones whose trust is not
in timetables, and who believe
always in being there in time.
The wonder and danger and un-
certainty of travel have never
left such folk, and the missing of a bus
would be a tragedy to ruin their whole
lives. •
Besides, they get the best seats by being
early ; but having all to choose from they
can never make up their minds which are
the best. Or their children can’t. The
children soon tire of waiting and think
of fresh diversions.
“Can I have an ice-cream, Mum?”
“Shush!”
Request repeated after the interval of
some seconds.
“No, no! There isn’t time now —
besides you’ve just had”
“They’ve got bull’s-eyes in the window,
Mum. I seen them.”
Apparently bull’s-eyes have less to do
with time than ice-cream . . . “Can I,
Mum?”
“George will be going any time now.”
George looks at the watch on his thick'
hairy wrist. There are still twenty minutes
to wait. But he says nothing.
“Can I, Mum?”
“Tommy, I told you you can’t. But
look, Tommy, here comes a puff-puff!”
Tommy is not over-interested in the
puff-puff—a miserable sort of engine with
a long smokestack and no tender to speak
of. Rather apologetically the puff-puff
drags a string of antiquated carriages to
westward. A poor sort of puff-puff and
just about as interesting as an electric
train. Obviously the puff-puff was
pointed out to divert attention from bull’s-
eyes. Tommy is too wise to be deceived
in this fashion.
“Can I, Mum?”
Tommy is told in strict private what
he is likely to get as soon as they get
home. Tommy doesn’t believe it —he has
been told the same thing every time they
go out. Anyway, the dire threat does not
square with the public display of fond
indulgent mother . . . “Can I, Mum? Or
a packet of chewing-gum?”
“How much longer have we, George?”
George again consults —quite unneces-
sarily—the wristlet-watch. “Just on fifteen
minutes, Mrs. Hogg.”
“Oh, dear, oh, dear! You are a trial,
Tommy. Here’s threepence, Tommy, and
get some bull’s-eyes. He won’t miss it,
will he, George?”
George is sure he won’t. He knows,
but doesn’t say so, that when
they start a regular bus ser-
vice to hell, Mrs. Hogg will
be the first in it, and Tommy
will have a sticky fist of
bull’s-eyes or an ice-cream
for the journey.
Tommy clears off and
leaves his mother in a per-
spiration of anxiety. “They
are only young once,” she
says to George. George
reckons that’s right, too.
Tommy returns with a cargo of bull’s-
eyes. “Ooh, Mum, they’ve got all-day
suckers in there! ”,
“Come here, Tommy, at once,”
“But they has. Mum. I seen them.”
“COme and watch the trains, and
George is going now.”
Tommy, quite unsated, comes in re-
luctantly,
OTHERS begin to arrive. Dinky Watts
thrusts a red, hairy face round the
door. Dinky is evidently a character, an
identity that would make any community
feel a lot better by the mere contempla-
tion of how disgraceful Dinky really is.
“George,” says Dinky, “have you a safe
place for this?”
“This,” is a dirty sugar-bag bound on
top with binder-twine —also dirty. The
sugar-bag is shapelessly filled, and much
given to ominous clickings and rattlings.
“I think we can manage. Dinky—just
about.”
“You’ll be careful, George, won’t you?
Whole month’s supply of pickles and
vinegar. And tomato-sauce, George.”
Dinky says it with a scrubby sort of leer
to underline the heavy humor of it.
“They’ll be all right, Dinky. Never
broke a bottle —of pickles—yet. Nor
tomato-sauce.”
“I have to see someone, George—you’re
not going just yet.”
“Ten minutes, Dinky.”
“Whips of time, that. But don’t go
without me, George.”
“You’ll be here in time. Dinky.”
Dinky shuffles off up the street to see
someone. Mrs. Hogg sniffs loudly. “Dis-
graceful!” She says. George grins, per-
haps thinking of Tommy and his bull’s-
eyes.
A stout lady with a blotchy face steers
a thin lady towards the Green Beetle.
The thin lady is tall and looks like an
expensive umbrella —with an awful lot of
steel ribs —that shut with a click, . . .
“Auntie Nellie!” gasps the stout lady.
“How are you. Miss Ogden?” says
George.
Auntie Nellie gives a frosty sort of
click. “Auntie Nellie,” says the stout
woman, “is going for the day to my
sister’s at the Cross Roads.”
“That’s good,” says George.
“But she’s worried about getting back.”
“I’ll pick her up,” says George.
“By the four-thirty from Westcroft?”
“Sure, and that I will.”
“You won’t forget, will you, George?”
Then Auntie Nellie spoke for the first
time: “Driver, you’ll honk your horn
before you get to my niece’s place at the
Cross Roads ; and keep on honking it?”
George promised to do no end of all
manner of honking so that Auntie Nellie’s
safe return by the 4.30 from Westcroft
might be assured.
Auntie Nellie sat down with a click
and sat very upright and stared straight
ahead. Once a month did she pay such a
state visit to the Cross Roads niece, a
visit of strict duty rather than of care-
free pleasure. She never got beyond the
dangerous and uncertain stage of travel-
ling, and she refused to call George any-
thing but “driver.”
DINKY WATTS returned feeling the
better and looking the worse for see-
ing that someone. Although there were
still empty seats. Dinky elected to sit with
Auntie Nellie. The ribs of umbrella
shrank into primmer compactness.
“Gran’ lil fellow —if you ask me,” said
Dinky in a voice thick with confidence,
Ha spoke between a loud whisper and a
mild bellow—“Gran’ lil fellow, that!”
Auntie Nellie ignored the confidence,
whatever it was. Dinky
screwed round and focused
Auntie Nellie with care and
politeness. Auntie Nellie
stared ahead.
“I remark,” said Dinky
with surprising but becom-
ing dignity—“l remark he
was a gran’ lil fellow.”
“Driver! ” called Auntie
Nellie.
George smiled reassuringly.
“Dinky,” he said, “come
along here and see your pickles don’t get
broke.”
Dinky understood and snorted. He
moved down to the front and audibly
diagnosed Auntie Nellie’s “trouble.”
Dinky knew of only one way of fixing
such trouble, and said so, George
placated Dinky.
The nurse got in. She said, “George,
you are a dear to wait like this for me.”
There were still two minutes to go, but it
was a fond fiction that George always
held up the bus for her. The nurse had
very thick ankles, very thick arms —mostly
bare —and a very thick neck. And she
had a voice like a crow that was learning
music and finding it rather hard going.
She had just “finished up” on a case, she
said, and an awful case it was. And she
didn’t mind who knew it was an awful
case: “He turned black as true as I’m
sitting here.” She was really a good,
cheerful soul —with a liking for horror.
She declared —“Me! I’m going to West-
croft, and I’m going to sleep for a week —
after that.”
“My, oh my! And only just in ... ”
“Half a minute yet, Mrs. Perry.”
“George, I’d’ve died if I missed this.
In you get!,”
Five little Perrys ranging from a shy
pigtails to a sucking thumb tumbled in
and went down to the back where the
inevitable squabble began over windows.
In addition to the five, Mrs. Perry had the
very latest of all the Perrys on her fat
hip. She followed the five, and settled
the rights and wrongs of windows in her
good-humored way. Then she flopped
into a vacant seat and mopped her red
face—strangely youthful it was for all
her sagging ribs and enormous bosom.
“My. oh my!” she repeated. “I do
believe I’d’ve died if . . . ”
GEORGE looked at his watch, gave a
shuffle and pressed the self-starter.
The Green Beetle became vibrant with
life and the anxiety to be off. It eased
its way from the curb, and thrust its blunt
nose to the right, straightened out on the
roadway, and began the great adventure
of the journey to Westcroft . . . Away,
and away through historic Parramatta,
past St. John’s with its twin towers dream-
ing of other days, reflecting maybe on the
vanity of human wishes and that greatest
vanity of all called Progress . . . Past the
Town Hall, which was erected in a certain
year when —what’s his name now? —was
Mayor—past the monumental fountain
erected when someone else entirely was
Mayor, and into the business of Church-
street where urban and rural mix and
blend as naturally as the past and the
present . . . Then a bustling halt at
Murray’s big store where many regulars
are waiting—mothers mostly who have
been down to do a bit of shopping and
are laden with no end of parcels, suit-
cases and string-bags. They have many
children —the older of whom hop in re-
gardless of warnings to wait and be
careful.
George knows them all —mothers and
children, and announces hopefully that
there is plenty of room further down.
There are strangers, too, who only want
to go as far as the jail, or the woollen
mills —and when can they get a bus back?
Is there one about two o’clock, now? Or
at four-thirty or thereabouts? And
George gives all the information —out of
his head—and repeats it to cope with
those indecisions and mental confusions
that always arise when times are calcu-
lated upon. And George is sorry there
isn’t one just then—and you could get
an earlier one —or wait forty-five minutes
for a later one from —“Yes, and sure I
will stop at the butcher’s,” where some-
one’s husband “won’t keep you more
than half a minute at the very most . . .”
’“TWO gangling youths get on last of all,
* and swivel about on their loose hips
as gangling youths always do; and
stand with precarious ease on the step;
and dangle cigarettes, with more or less
soppy ends, from their lips ; what time
they gaze with sophisticated appraisement
on the shapely bare legs of a young thing
in a perfectly glowing mass of yellow
hair.
Young thing is self-possessed in arti-
ficial lips and long nails of barbaric red
and peeper shoes that display equally red
big-toe nails. Young thing likes being
gazed at and devoured, though she ex-
presses only a cool unconcern . . .
Gangling youths continue appraisal and
make disgraceful remarks to each other,
and exchange equally disgraceful
glances ...
Dinky Watts has taken a young man of
four upon his knees and says funny things
to him, the husband is rescued at the
butcher’s and has a shapeless parcel in
white paper, and Auntie Nellie is posi-
tively crushed, as far as umbrellas can
be crushed, against a window by a large
woman with a small infant who takes
undue notice of any dangly things adorn-
ing Auntie Nellie. Tommy, of the bull’s-
eyes, has been given at last a slap—a
feeble token really of parental powers and
control. Tommy howls miserably, far
beyond the reason for it, and makes a
greater show than ever of his mother . . .
Other mothers nod to each other sur-
reptitiously— to indicate just what young
Tommy wants . . . And if he were their
kid he’d get it too —bus or no bus . . .
And| nurse has found a new audience for
her awful case . . .
Over the beautiful Lennox Bridge . . .
Young thing alights, giving George two-
pence and a real smile that is not entirely
ruined by the artificial lips . . . Gangling
youths gape after her. “By cripes, she’d
do me,” says one, and “By hell she
wouldn’t,” says the other, who took a
gloomier view of things . . .
Past the big convent where the meek
Virgin (in plaster, or is it really marble?)
looks down upon the busy road-
way, and a Holy Family is serene among
shrubs and lawns . . . Past the jail walling
in its secrets with raw and hungry sand-
stone ; and a warder, rifle at trail, stalks
for ever on the parapet; small boys gaze
at him and more than half hope that he’ll
fire at an escaping prisoner . . ,


OVER the stretch of concrete, the
roaring road to northward where the
Green Beetle must feel entirely out of
place—on to the woollen mills—
gangling youths alight here. Here is an
inky, slinking stream with sad reeds trying
to hide its shame. Over the narrow bridge
and into the narrow, winding Westcroft-
road, where the Green Beetle buzzes pur-
posefully up the long slopes —long ago
the scented groves of the little hills . . ,
For these are the first of the little hills
that rise to the north of the river—the
Carlingford, Dundas, Ermington and
Ryde of yesterday, once the most allur-
ingly beautiful countryside in all Aus-
tralia, and the very nurse of the arts of
fruit and vine, gone now with their charm,
for Sydney has laid siege to the little hills
and captured them. Below the little hills
lies Parramatta- —provincial still, but more
truly capital city than any other. Sydney
has long since laid her arms around Parra-
matta, clasping it, hugging it, claiming it
as her own, but the entity of Parramatta
remains. Parramatta is as secure in that
as she is in her past . . .
In place of farm and orchard on the
slopes of the little hills are streets, com-
plete, or half-made, or barely commenced.
And houses in all manner of completion
and incompletion—from the garish new-
built to brick-piers pathetically waiting
for something to be put on them; bare
walls waiting for hats to be put on them ;
tiled roofs waiting for gutters and down-
pipe. Brooding they all seem in their
eternal waiting for something . . .
A MODEST mansion, startlingly new in
its finished state among so much half-
and quarter-done, brings forth bitter com-
ment from the husband with the parcel
of butcher’s meat: “Look at that, George
—that place of Appleby’s there! ”
“They’re lucky,” says George, “to get
it done so quickly.”
“Luck! That’s not luck. Appleby’s in
the blackmarket. Right up to his bloody
neck in it, he is.”
Auntie Nellie clicks with indignation at
the word, which was even more offensive
than the soup-bones and the husband who
carried them.
“Ah, well,” says George, which seemed
to mean acceptance of things as they
are . . ,
“Now, there’s Newton’s place. Look
at it—all the timber turning inside out,
and not a tile or a bit of galvanised can
he get. He’s not in the blackmarket —
Newton isn’t. And his place was started
months and months before there was any
foundations at all at Appleby’s. It just
goes to show.”
“Wouldn’t it?” says George.
“Wouldn’t it! That’s what I say. And
here’s me with my name down for a bit
of netting for my runs and I can’t get a
foot of it,”
“Still, there is netting about, you
know.”
“Of course—and I’m going on to the
blackmarket myself for a bit of it. See
if I don’t!”
At this point the white parcel disin-
tegrated at a blood-soaked corner and
dropped shinbone to the floor. “Damn
it and blast it!” said the husband at this
one more illustration of what a poor man
has to put up with these days.
Soon after this Tommy and his mother
left the bus. Tommy was stickied o’er
with bull’s-eyes, and was now devouring
biscuits. “Oh, he’s a terrible fellow! ” said
his mother in apology and pride. “Never
mind, Mrs. Hogg,” said George, “they
are only young once.”
The husband with the soup-bones had
now a good seat, but wasn’t so grateful—
rather resentful at standing so long.
Dinky Watts, who had been dozing,
awoke to hear Soup-bones make a slight-
ing remark on the Golden Age. For
some reason it stung Dinky as a personal
reflection. He eyed Soup-bones male-
volently. “First time,” he said. “First
time in history that the working-man’s
had a go. That’s wash I say—very first
time.”
Dinky himself didn’t look as if he had
worked for ages, or if having a go was
doing him any good. But there is always
a fine large sound—at once of self-esteem
and self-pity—about the term “working-
man.”
“All right, all right,” said Soup-bones.
“But you can’t get anything you want.”
“Whash-that? Wha’ can’t you get?
Name them now. Jush one!”
“Well, a bit of netting for my runs.”
“Wire-netting! Is wire-netting every-
thing or anything—tell me that!”
“Here’s your stop, Dinky.”
“Pay you tomorrow, George—shee if
I don’t,”
“That’s all right, Dinky,”
Dinky, with his sugar-bag of pickles
and sauce, weaved uncertainly a way
towards a primitive structure of hessian
and poles and flattened-out tins—visible
in a break in the low scrub, and certainly
not a fit dwelling for a working-man
whether he was having a go or not.
NURSE viewed Dinky as the probable
makings of an awful case later on;
stout lady viewed Dinky as a horrible
example; and she could remember when
he was quite presentable and not a bit
like that. Nurse and stout lady had ex-
hausted the recent case —where he turned
black. Stout lady gave an account
of her own most spectacular operation.
“From there to there it was —if you
could believe it! ” She traced the
there to there rather vaguely with her
hand and no doubt exaggerated. Nurse
allows for exaggeration, and listens
politely with no great interest. Cuts like
that were nothing to what she had seen
in her time ....
Green Beetle empties out fairly rapidly
now. Soup-bones and wife and two little
boys depart. And so do the numerous
Perrys ; and so do others from time to
time with “Cheerio, George!”
“Hooroo, George! ” . . . “See you later.”
REAL country road now — timber,
scrub, little farms, orchards in
squares and oblongs, bits of new clear-
ing, fowl-runs with more white leghorns
than the city wife who breaks eggs into
a pan had ever dreamed of ... a flower-
farm or two, gay in color, but too trimly
ordered ... a little wooden church drab
and paintless, but with all the strong per-
sonality of dissenting and thunderous
lay-preaching upon it ... a lonely
cemetery . . .
Beyond the limits now of the first little
hills that Sydney has besieged and capl-
- all their polyglot of build-
ing ventures.
Green Beetle buzzes and flashes through
real ironbarks, bluegums and blackbutts
—the country of the bigger hills.
George swings his wheel to left or
right, and glances occasionally from the
high ridge to the summer-misted
where Parramatta rests secure; or to
south-east where the big smudge indicates
Sydney.
Nearly empty now, Green Beetle noses
its way into Westcroft streets, and starts
to pick up again—those going for the
train ... “I believe you’re late today,
George?” says a pompous gentleman.
George smiles—“ Never that, Mr. Huddle.
You’ll catch it all right.” And to the
very tick the Green Beetle comes to proud
rest at Westcroft station. Plenty of time
for the train —either the up or the down —
as there always is. People get out and
hurry down the ramp—to start on other
journeys, but none of them as fine and
colorful as that from Parramatta, nothing
so intimate and friendly in the way of
travel.
NURSE says—“l’m going to sleep for
a week —after a case like that. Did
I tell you about it, George?”
George said he had heard of it.
“Went all black, George!”
George said it was terrible indeed.
Then George sweeps out with his little
broom, dusts the seats, flicks the Beetle’s
hard green shard with a soft rag.
He lights a cigarette and waits till
12.2 p.m. swings round on his wristlet-
watch.
With half-shut eyes he looks through
his windscreen at sleepy little Westcroft.
And thinks of this and that or of nothing
at all. George has another life some-
where, somehow, but it never obtrudes.
Life with the Green Beetle is the only one
that people see . . .
And Parramatta behind the bigger hills
and the little hills lies secure in its past
and present —waiting for George’s return.
Maori Oven.
With the pointed steel toe of the shovel
chops out a piece of turf, taking hold
of the flap of skin and tearing it away.
The smell of warm earth is released,
and a worm lies helpless in a coil
burned to death by the cold truth of the
air.
I would rather you left everything there
as it is, which is not as it was,
because everything is settled now. Feet
of sheep, weight of their bodies, human
feet, of shepherds, builders of fences and
walls;
and besides all this the weight of the sun,
the heavy sun and the heavy inert
air. You cut into the warm earth
and shatter the dead shells into bright
fragments.
Why does a piece of obsidian, a bone
pick,
sharp as yesterday, give you so much
pleasure ? Leave it alone,
pakeha, leave it alone !
N.Z.
W. HART-SMITH.
The Cat and the Clown
By GEOFF BINGHAM
ALL were skinny, but some were
long and skinny, as was Ray. He
looked down on the English
colonel, and the English colonel
looked up at him.
“Jugged cats,” said the colonel, and he
began to laugh.
“I’ve heard of jugged hare, sir,” Ray
ventured politely.
“Heard of it! ” said the colonel, amazed.
Then he stared at Ray, his blue eyes
becoming keen. “You were at Kamburi,
weren’t you?” he asked.
Ray nodded. “No jugged cats there,
eh?” the colonel shouted.
The tall Australian was mystified. “No,
sir,” he said wonderingly.
“Look,” commanded the colonel.
“Cats! Cats everywhere! Damn’ foolish
Indians lived in this camp before.” He
gestured, embracing in the one move-
ment of his arms the entire prison-camp.
“Never eat cats, apparently,” he said
soberly.
Ray drifted away from the English
colonel. He remembered him now,
doggedly retaining his pack on the long
trek in Thailand. Very red inathe face,
the colonel had been. Probatfty dream-
ing of jugged hare.
THE cats were timorous because they
were thin. They were very trusting.
Too trusting. The colonel and others lost
little dignity in catching them. Three
days in the ground, the cooler the spot
the better, and then cook ’em. The
colonel and his friend, if they did not
fatten, at least felt some satisfaction, and
undoubtedly they discussed the delicious
dish in epicurean manner.
“Puss. Puss. Puss.” They had
formerly been spoken to in Hindustani
or Nepalese, or something, but they re-
sponded to “Puss, puss, puss,” as though
the words were universal, and they uni-
versal cats.
The Yanks greatly rejoiced as the cats
grew scarcer. Hank especially.
He and his fellow-soldiers
reasoned that a benign Provi-
dence works in wondrous
ways. When cats are gone
—and who does not like
a cat? —then the rats will
come. Hank, the musical
Yank, offered one dollar —in Japanese
currency, of course —for a rat, small or
big.
Hank had even offered Ray a bite, big
Ray who would rather be thin than have
cats or rats on his conscience and in his
stomach.
“But you see,” Hank explained, “it’s
all done by science. When it’s titivated
and done up it might be anything.”
“No,” Ray said gloomily. “I’m
hungry, but I’m not starving.”
“Some people,” said Hank, “never
know when they’re starving.”
“A good thing,” Ray observed.
“If you had a cat now,” said Hank,
intending to be cruel, “what would you
do with it?”
“Nothing,” said Ray truthfully.
Hank would not believe that. “A
whole big cat?” he asked incredulously.
“A whole big cat,” Ray maintained.
“But you would get nine dollars for
it,” Hank said.
“Very very nice, too,” said Ray. “But
all the cats are gone.”
“All gone,” agreed Hank wistfully.
“But there are the rats.” His eyes
brightened. “They’ll come. They’re
bound to. They can fatten on soap.
Soap’s fattening.”
“You can’t eat soap,” said Ray sadly.
“I’m not so sure,” Hank said.
AND then it was Ray saw the kitten.
At least it seemed to him to be a
kitten, but probably it was a small cat.
It parted the leaves of some tapioca-
plants and peered out. It was probably,
Ray thought, the last cat. The cat, too,
might have thought so. It stared at Ray,
without suspicion, but long and seriously.
It withdrew slightly when another
prisoner came to where Ray was.
“A cat,” he observed. “I wish I had
time to catch it.” He looked at Ray
enviously. “Lucky,” he said.
“Time?” said Ray. “Haven’t you
plenty of time?”
“I have to go to the Nips’ cookhouse
and cut wood,” the prisoner-of-war said,
licking his lips. It paid to cut wood at
the Nips’ cookhouse.
“You could do it easily,” he told Ray
out of the corner of his mouth. “If you
watch Yostler.”
“Why watch Yostler?” Ray asked.
The other soldier began to laugh
softly, as though he, too, knew the joke,
but appreciated Ray’s gesture of humor.
“Old Yostler, eh?” he said with rare
good humor as he departed.
What has Yostler to do with it? The
tall Australian wondered. The kitten
emerged again and he saw it was not
small or thin, a remarkable state of affairs.
“Kitty, kitty,” he said, almost auto-
matically.
The kitten looked at him. The last cat,
or kitten, it longed, seemingly, for com-
pany.
“Kitty! Kitty!” Ray said.
And archly it came, back curled sinu-
ously, eyes voluptuous, tail moving
slowly, an innocently-wicked enchantress.
“Meow!” It was a faint sound, but a
sweet response.
“Oh, kitty, kitty, kitty!” said Ray
soothingly, foolishly.
Kitty seemed to know it was all in
order to be stroked. She rubbed her
smooth softness against his skinny leg.
She caressed with her silky fur the nobble
of his ankle. She liked his fingers mov-
ing along her back. She looked up and
flirted gently.
“Kitty,” he crooned.
Then he remembered; watch Yostler.
Kitty continued to smooge, even when he
lifted the chunkel in businesslike manner,
tilling the ground.
“You would be very tender,” he told
her reprovingly.
Nine dollars. Hank had said. Nine
dollars; it was like selling your soul.
Yet not to sell would be madness. Poor
little Kitty. He spared a moment to
stroke her.
“Go away, Kitty,” he warned. “Go
away. Shoo! ”
Kitty was most coy. She arched her
back in friendly manner. She refused
the warning.
“I’ll be glad,” said Ray
desperately, “when the gong
goes.”
After a time the gong did
go, echoing across the camp,
but Kitty did not go. Nor
did she stay. She followed
the tall Australian across the freshly-
tilled soil. Both she and the prisoner had
no premonition of what was to follow.
He suddenly picked up Kitty and
placed her in his shirt. She nestled there,
still purring. She was exquisitely soft
against his ribs. Perhaps she had gone
to sleep. He hoped so when he saluted
Yostler. Yostler did not seem to see him.
He was smoking a delicious cheroot and
was, consequently, dreamy. Possibly
thinking of geisha-girls.
J T was inevitable Hank should turn up
1 from somewhere. Hank, living in the
same camp, was bound to strike up against
you. Hank, with his uncanny gift for
smelling out the unusual; but even then
Ray had no thought of connecting Hank,
Kitty and nine dollars. Yet some im-
pulse prompted him to withdraw Kitty
from his shirt.
Kitty awoke. She stared up at Ray,
then, almost arrogantly, at Hank. She
yawned impolitely.
“Ray,” said Hank earnestly, “I thought
you were only a child in these things. I’ll
admit
“Oh,” said Ray.
“That,” said Hank ungrudgingly, “is
the best cat I’ve set eyes on ever, bar
none.”
“It’s a nice cat,” Ray said.
“Worth five dollars any day,” said
Hank.
“You said nine this morning,” said
Ray, remembering.
“Ha,” said Hank. He stared suspici-
ously at Ray.
“And if this is a better cat than you’ve
seen . . .” Ray said.
Hank looked at him. “I used to think
you were a chicken,” he said, “or a
clown.”
“Well!” Ray said indignantly.
“Kitty, kitty, kitty,” Hank said
hungrily.
Then his eyes widened. “That,” he
said, “is Yostler’s cat.”
“No! ” Ray said.
“Nestles up on his bed every- night,”
said Hank. “Yostler loves that cat.”
“Well!” said Ray a second time.
(Continued on page 33.)


WHERE
MOVE
MERCHANDISE MOVES
■
.
%
.
■■■l
■
■
1
smsiM w
.
ti \ §
r’ jjf w •' ■? ■■ '> y Z%j£M
« ■■
I
|V| j
iMSi
58... i
v
§wi
■;■,■ :■;■ -■ ■
k&i - ’ % „ I»i:si<->
Ol -.ATO» s * 1 .....iilß?i*
BmHB
#YIS BSC lpoB l«J»J^
AT UTEIt ■■
OTIS escalator*
-PUT MOTION INTO SALES PROMOTION
New Installations
of Post-war Design
OTIS ESCALATORS
This Otis escalator installation at Myer Emporium
Ltd., Melbourne, invites customers to visit depart-
ments on upper floors-—to see more and to buy more.
Properly planned escalators induce shoppers to visit
all departments . . . promote a high density ratio of
customers to merchandising area . . » make for more
store traffic, more sales-—and more profits
Your local Otis office will be glad to give you the facts
and survey conditions in your store,
r
ELEVATOR COMPANY
(Incorporated in Victoria) P TY. LTD.
SYDNEY- . MELBOURNE • ADELAIDE
BRISBANE . PERTH • HOBART . NEWCASTLE
UNITED STATES • SOUTH AFRICA • FRANCE
:
Public Notice.
,1, GIACOMO FEDE, of Italian nationality,
born, at Spadafora, Italy, and resident of
Australia for 'nine years, now-residing at
Hampden Road, Wahroonga, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
Fragrant Smoking
with bijfhly-porous ceramic filter.
No breakingr-in, bite, burn, wet
dottle or waste.
19/6 ea. Spare Filters 1/3 ea.
Buttner Plastic Pouches (5/6)
and Pipe Reamers (5/3).
Obtainable at: Boans Ltd. and T.
Sharp, Perth. Nat Solomons and
Harris Scarfe Ltd., Adelaide. Alstons,
Dammans, and J. Frost, Melbourne.
Farmers, Anthony Horderns, Grace
Bros., Peapes and Prior Bros., Sydney.
R. Black, Queen St., Brisbane. Or
direct from the Distributors—
CHARLES WHEI'TON Pty. Ltd.,
156 Castlereag-h St., Sydney.
Illustrated leaflet on request.
THE BRITISH
BUTTNER PIPE
& Spots, roughness
\.jj and soreness mar
the beauty of
Vy skin and oom-
/ plexlon I Use Cuticura
' Soap regularly Its
antiseptic and medicinal pro-
perties make and keep the
skin exquisitely smooth and
charming. One of the famous
trio —Cuticura Soap, Oint-
ment and Talcum Powder.^
fsd
MB
cular Charts for ail types
of Recording Instruments
for any class of Machinery
or Equipment
METER CHARTS a Specialty
J ACEOTT OSIILI VAN^li
QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
THE SERVICE MAN
General Rowell's Task.
pointment shows that he will
need them.
General Rowell’s own particu-
lar Minister, Mr. Chambers, is
something which any self-
respecting citizen with the cause
of defence at heart would like
to take away and hide in shame
on the approach of strangers, so
as to prevent him from making
the nation look ridiculous.
The measure of the Minister
and of Commonwealth defence
in general is easily shown by a
perusal of recent Government
statements.
Regarding the Army, state-
ment No. 1 appears in the
Budget Speech of the Prime
Minister delivered on Septem-
ber 7.
This announces that “Army
estimates for 1949-1950 are
based on an average strength
of 15,000 full-time military duty
and a Citizen Force of an aver-
age strength of 23,000.”
Statement No. 2 was made by
Mr. Chambers three weeks later
on September 22 in answer to,
a question by Mr. Francis,
M.H.R. .
It appeared that on the day
on which Mr. Chifley had
spoken the full-time military
strength of the A.M.F. was only
a few short of the 15,000
budgeted for, but that of these
5518 were “in headquarters and
units such as Army h.q., h.qs.
of commands and military dis-
tricts, Army record offices, medi-
cal and dental units, recruiting
staffs, inspection staffs and edu-
cation units.”
And the number employed in
“armored, artillery, engineer,
signal, infantry, supply and
“Ek Dum”: Lieutenant-
General S. R. Rowell, Vice-
Chief of the General Staff, has
been promoted to be Chief of
the General Staff from April
next.
A scholarly and capable Dun-
trooner, there is something
reminiscent in his manner and
approach to problems of the
late Lieutenant-General Brude-
nell White.
He is a man who knows his
own mind and who is not afraid
to speak it. And he does not
allow other people to sway him
in serious situations, as he
proved on one memorable occa-
sion during World War 11, as the
result of which Australia lost
his services in any really useful
capacity for a time, when, at 44,
he held the command of the
First Australian Corps. But the
Allied High Command took him
out of the minor position to
which he had been relegated (be-
cause he refused to get as excited
as the Sydney daily Press at the
intrusion of a few half-armed
Japanese across the Owen Stan-
leys without the means of con-
solidating their position) and
made him its Director of Tacti-
cal Investigation at the War
Office during the invasion of
Europe in 1944-45.
He is a keen student of mili-
tary theory and its application
to modern conditions, and the
prayers of every well-wisher will
go out to him, since the debate
on the Defence Estimates
which followed upon his ap-
transport and other units” on
the same day was 9440.
Mr. Chambers found that he
“could not distinguish” between
personnel employed in adminis-
trative duties, such as clerks,
storemen, telephonists, etc., be-
cause even in war (as he assured
Mr. Francis solemnly) certain
personnel are required for ad-
ministrative purposes, and every-
body is considered a combatant
and expected to be able to bear
arms, outside the R.A.M.C. and
the Royal Dental Corps, of
"It's all right , mister—I'm doin' the whole thing for a bet."
which the Minister was himself
a member.
However, this array appears
on Mr. Chifley’s say-so to con-
tain somewhere “a Regular
Army Brigade Group.”
Mr. Chambers’s Pride
Mr. Chambers was bursting
with pride at its existence when
Messrs. Francis and Rankin
challenged him about it:
Five years after cessation of hos-
tilities the Regular Army has 16,000
personnel. As Minister for the Army
I am proud of that achievement.
Then he proceeded to relieve
his heaving chest of this gem:
In 1949 the only possible enemy
that we can see is Russia, but in
1939 arrayed against the democracies
were a powerful Germany and a
powerful Japan, which internally had
not been touched by World War I.
The Labor Government has done
much to assure the people that they
have ample security in the present
international set-up.
Such is the temper of Parlia-
ment that this utterance was not
greeted by so much as a titter.
Nobody rose to remind Mr.
Chambers that for a great part
of the period between World
Wars I and II the party to which
he belongs believed that Japan
was no menace and advocated
cutting the painter from Britain
and making an alliance with
Japan. To quote one of their
manifestoes from Which the un-
fortunate interned Australia
First men should be able to get
a belated laugh:
Hughes makes a bogy of Japan.
England is more dangerous.
England cost us 60,000 in killed
and hundreds of thousands of
maimed.
Japan has remained a peaceful
neighbor. She has no designs on
Australia.
The Citizen Forces, if
“Labor’s” plans at present were
running to strength and
schedule, should number 50,000
men. The Government felt
assured when it put forward its
superlative, epoch - making
scheme, of which, of course,
only a “Labor” Government
was capable, that these figures
would be realised by the volun-
tary system.
Mr. Chifley, however, on Sep-
tember 7 admitted to a figure
just below half the original one
which he and his colleagues had
dreamed up—though without a
material reduction of costs.
Mr. Chifley’s figure, however,
proved in the light of actuality
to be about as accurate as a lot
of his figures. On the day on
which he told Parliament that it
would be needful to provide for
an average Citizen Force
strength of 23,000 the actual
strength of the Citizen Force
was stated by Mr. Chambers to
be:
In Div. H.Q., medical, dental and
other similar units .. .. 648
In all other units, including supply
and transport 15,554
Everybody knew, of course, that
when Mr. Chifley gave his figure
the Citizen Force was steadily
dwindling. And, seeing that his
figure was made up before June
30, it can be taken for granted
that the difference between his
stated 23,000 and Mr.
Chambers’s 16,000-odd repre-
sented the fading-away of dis-
gusted soldiers between June and
September.
Mr. Chambers nevertheless
considers still that we are safe.
He told the House in discus-
sing the Estimates:
I, for one, do not believe that
Russia is such a powerful nation that
it can destroy 1 all other nations.
Yet, as Mr. Menzies pointed
out, the whole world is stand-
ing to arms on guard against
Russia, which is training a
couple of million conscripts a
year and has the benefit of
almost everything the Germans
knew about war in 1945, the
atom-bomb, a large submarine
fleet and a growing air force.
Mr. Dedman added a bit to
Mr, Chambers’s inanities;
People who speak of the number
of men under arms' are living in the
Dark Ages when war was fought With
manpower. Today wars are fought
not so much with manpower as with
industry. The United States today
is so powerful industrially that no
other nation or combination of
nations could successfully wage war
against her. No country, Russia nor
anyone else, can challenge the United
States to war at the present time.
America will inevitably win any war
within the next five, 10 or 25 years.
To which the Minister added:
Responsible opinion throughout the
world does not believe that there is
immediate danger of another war.
The opinion is that there will not be
another major war for at least five
years, and that it is very improbable
that there will be a war for a very
much longer period which involves
Australia, the United Kingdom or the
United States.
General Sturdee Disagrees
General Sturdee, whom
General Rowell is succeeding as
head of the Australian Military
Forces, and -who can certainly
be classified as a responsible
authority, promptly made a
statement in which he vigorously
disagreed with Mr. Dedman:
If Russia judges conditions suitable
she will go to war We will have
to get used to the fact that some
of us will be involved in another
war....lt is impossible to tell when
it will come.... Russia is alleged to
have the atomic bomb, but that does
not really make any difference....
Atomic bombs can stop nations, but
not armies. Russia’s main stock-in-
trade is manpower. Life at lower
levels is an expendable commodity,
and advancing hordes could not be
stopped with atomic bombs. Only
the services—Navy, Army and Air
Force —could really stop an advance.
It is to be hoped that General
Rowell will maintain General
Sturdee’s tradition of outspoken-
ness.
In Canton.
“Ek Dum”: Having estab-
lished their new Government,
the Chinese Communists
marched into Canton with the


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce,
TO ROBERT PEROIVAL BAYLEY late
of Crow’s Nest. —TAKE NOTICE that
ELSIE MAY BAYLEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2718 of 1949 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or
excuse for 3 years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 4th
day of January 1950 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from
R. G. B. TEMPLEMAN, Solicitor, 115
Pitt Street, Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO IVOR EDWARD JOSEPH LEVERTON
late of Earlwood. —TAKE NOTICE that
ELFREADA DOROTHY LEVERTON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2402 of
1949 on the ground of habitual drunken-
ness and leaving without means of support
during 3 years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 4th day of
January 1950 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from WILLIAM
LANDER, Solicitor, 79 Elizabeth Street,
Sydney.—(l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO VICTOR ALBERT FULLALOVE late
of Goulburn.—TAKE NOTICE that
MYRTLE IRENE FULLALOVE has filed a
Notice of Motion claiming permanent
maintenance from you for the support of
the children of your marriage with her
If you wish to oppose the said motion you
may enter appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney and the said motion is to be heard
before the Registrar on the 29th day of
November 1949. —(1.5.) J. DOUGHAN,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO PERCY COLLINS formerly of 28
Abbott Street Cammeray.—TAKE NOTICE
that FREDA PAULINE COLLINS has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2003 of 1949
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards and asks that the discretion of the
Court under Section 19 (2) (a) of the
Matrimonial Causes Act 1898 be exercised
in her favor If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 21st day of November 1949 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from FRANCIS JOHN KEANE,
Solicitor, 72 Pitt Street, Sydney.— (l.s.)
J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO COLLEEN MONICA SUMMERFIELD
late of 4 Mayfair Flats McDonald Street
Potts Point.—TAKE NOTICE that
HAROLD ROBERT SUMMERFIELD has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2604 of
1949 on the ground of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street Syd-
ney by the 27th day of December 1949
and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from E. R. CALDWELL, Solicitor,
Lynch Street, Young, or his Agent, N. W.
CALDWELL, 375 George Street, Sydney.
—(L.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar in
Divorce.
t v
jb*v
Your choice l» CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
■weet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
SWISS FINISHING SCHOOL
Le Colombier
A private and select Finishing School
for the Study of Languages ( French
and German ), Continental Culture,
deportment and domestic science.
For prospectus apply to : —
MAJOR and MADAM JACQUES H. E. CHABLE
Olinda Falls Rd., MX. DANDENONG, Victoria.
|/ODAK
IMPRINT
W£ USE
V£LOX
i$
KODAK
for Cameras
A
BROWNIE REFLEX.
Reflex viewfinder shows
picture in actual size;
Time and instantaneous
shutter; push-button re-
lease; 12 exp. (II x l|
in.).
SIX-20 BROWNIE "C."
New model Brownie; two
large viewfinders; time
and instantaneous shutter;
all-metal body; 8 exp.
(21x31 in.).
V
SIX-20 KODAK “A."
Anastar f/4.5 lens; focus-
ing from 3) ft. to infinity;
Epsilon shutter with four
speeds to 1/150 sec.; time
and bulb; 8 exposures (2)
x in.).
►
BABY BROWNIE.
Modern, attractive, all-
moulded plastic; lens in
front of shutter; handy
eye-1 eve I viewfinder;
simple to use; 8 expos-
ures (21 x If in.) on
V 127 film. Price, 21/-,
SIX-20
BROWNIE.^
Economical and
efficient; time and
instantaneous
shutter; all • metal
body; black-grained
leatherette cover-
ing; 8 exp. (21 x 31
in.l.
Prices subject to alteration without notice .
KODAK
Verichrome film
You press the button—
and Kodak Verichrome
film does the rest.
Kodak film is scien-
tifically made to give
the best results with
every camera. It's
the film that gets
the picture.
jr
KODAK
Developing
& Printing
The developing and print-
ing of your snapshots is
a {ob for an expert. You'll
get clear, better snap-
shots snapshots that
live when you leave
your films with the
Kodak Developing and
Printing Service.
EPI
KODAK (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD . —Branches in all States.
r '
4
Jlol
same ease that they had pene-
trated Central and Southern
China.
They entered the city on
Saturday, October 15, without
meeting any resistance, there
being nobody to resist them, in
any case, except a few soldiery
of junior-cadet age and a rag-
tag of guerrillas.
The “Government” of
Nationalist China now has “re-
tired to Chungking,” according
to its own announcement, leav-
ing the seething mass of China’s
old commercial trading city and
all the country down the river
to the borders of Hong Kong in
the hands of the Russian-spon-
sored and -armed rebels, whose
guerrillas were already virtually
in control of the surrounding
countryside.
The Chinese Nationalists have
done no fighting since the battles
which led to the taking of
Shanghai, and not very much
then. The only control they
have at the moment is over parts
of the sea with ships which were
deeded to them by their allies,
and this control extends mainly
to the vessels of the countries
which have equipped them to
operate.
The one reported action
against the Communists con-
sisted of a duel with Communist
artillery which bombarded a
British ship in Amoy during the
weekend.
There seems to have been no
interruption to life in Canton,
which has always ignored revo-
lutions as a city and taken a
little shelling and a few fires and
bombs as something in the
ordinary course of nature like
a thunderstorm.
Chiang Kai-shek and his fatted
generals are, of course, safe for
the present in Formosa, no
doubt happy in the belief that
the United States cannot afford
to allow that island to fall into
the hands of the Communists.
In Hong Kong there is now
about a division of troops, in-
cluding ancillaries, plus naval
and air forces. It will probably
be a little while before the situa-
tion in Kwang-tung clarifies it-
self sufficiently to make it cer-
tain what the attitude of the new
Government will be to the con-
trol of the Pearl River mouth
by an armed British island and
peninsula. If it is at all con-
sistent it seems almost certain
that either an evictment order
will be served on the British or
that an attempt will be made
to control British movements
and management to such an ex-
tent in the air and on the sea
that the British Government
will have to take a stand or move
out. It will then, of course, be-
come an “aggressor,” and even
the Attlee Government must be
compelled to defend its posses-
sion.
The Chinese Communists are
not having it all their own way
in the north. Pockets of guer-
rillas, some fairly large, are
operating in parts of the country
which they have occupied. The
importance or otherwise of these
bodies of rebels or marauders is
not yet clear.
East Germany "Free."
In Czechoslovakia this week
the final phases of the Com-
munist revolution —the liquida-
tion of the church and the small
businessman —were in progress.
The processes there have been
accelerated by the presence of
the Red Army and a large group
of Russian advisers, who are ex-
perienced in the technique of
Communist revolution.
In Germany, the capture of
the Eastern Republic is almost
complete. Long ago a Com-
munist Army, called police, had
been armed and trained, so that
the Russians could withdraw
their forces. The western
borders had been fortified.
There seems to be no doubt that
from the beginning the Russians
had their plans made. The new
Government is installed under
that old servant of Moscow
William Pieck, and will presently
hold elections on the Russian
model, in which only candidates
approved! by the Government
will be allowed to stand and in
which any serious candidates
for opposition will either develop
mortal appendicitis or cerebral
haemorrhage, or be driven to
suicide in remorse for having
even dreamed of opposing a
representative of the Superb
Stalin.
Diplomatic recognition has
been given to the new Confidence
Trick State by Moscow, and it
is obvious that the actual re-
moval of Russian troops and the
signing of a “peace treaty” be-
tween Russia and Eastern Ger-
many is only a matter of time.
This will be followed by the in-
clusion of Eastern Germany in
the Soviet European bloc, and a
campaign of starvation of
Western Germany, which has
always depended on Eastern
Germany for its food-supply,
with a view to forcing it into
the Russian zone, will begin.
The situation which is being
created in Germany is much like
that which would be created in
the Sydney-Newcastle area if an
enemy were to take over the
rural districts of N. S. Wales.


name is
iHI
am
e
1
The whiskij is_
I i
mm
SCOTLAND
Scots (Uhisky
Cfii|!9U«qHfroiUMOetlBo7}&SYdltC«
Meeting
an olel friend
is always a
pleasurable
/
occasion .
3SV3 n^ 51t ,0H3W
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
12 Younger Grove,
Caulfield, S.E.B, Victoria.
ITS EASY T
TO NEW IEAIAKD
V- --- A ' J
GLACIERS, FJORDS, GEYSERS, MOUNTAINS, GLOW-WORM
CAVES, BOILING LAKES, MAORI MUSIC AND COLOUR.
The natural wonders of the world are concentrated
in New Zealand. TEAL will take you there in a
few hours by luxurious flying boat. Save days to
enjoy yourself. NO WAITING! SEATS AVAIL-
ABLE EVERY DAY. Fly to New Zealand by
TEAL and see wonderland this Spring.
TEAL
PI3
Reservations:
Qantqs and Leading Travel Agents
TASMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED
In association with Q. £. A., 6. 0. A. C. and 5. C. P. A.
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RAJK TRIAL MYSTERY.
When the main evidence, re-
ported from the scene of the
trial (Budapest), was before it,
London “Times” editorially
commented: —
“No amount of familiarity
with the great State trials in the
Communist camp can lessen the
sense of shock and bewilderment
which each new trial brings.”
As usual in all these trials,
there was no such waiting in the
Communist camp for the evi-
dence to prove the “guilt” of
the hitherto lilywhite Hungarian
Communist Laszlo Rajk. The
trial, for once, was reported at
first hand; and the report on
the eve of it ran thus:—
“As is the custom here [Hun-
gary], the Press has for many
days been writing of the accused
men’s guilt as established, but
using language more fierce than
was used even before the trial of
Cardinal Mindszenty. The Com-
munist newspapers say that ‘the
plot prepared by Tito and Rajk
is an integrated and important
part of the 30-year-long con-
spiracy against the Soviet Union.’
As is also the custom, thou-
sands of telegrams are reported
to have been pouring in from all
over the country, demanding
that the accused be mercilessly
punished. Meetings are being
held in every factory and village
to explain the indictment and
trial to the people, and especi-
ally to the factory workers.”
At the trial itself Rajk
“agreed, almost blandly, to
everything and more than every-
thing” of which he had been
accused. “He declared without
a shadow of emotion that for the
past 20 years he had been
passed from one anti-Commu-
nist secret service to another,
ending with the American ; and
that while [Hungarian] Minister
of the Interior he had received
and carried out orders from
Yugoslavia to overthrow the
Government'of which he was a
member; that America was be-
hind Yugoslavia; and that last
year, while Foreign Minister, he
had discussed all these plans with
Mr. Selden Chapin, then Ameri-
can Minister in Budapest.”
Rajk admitted, in fact, to a
lifetime of infamy (from the
Communist point of view), giv-
ing details of all his wicked do-
ings in Spain (where he fought
against Franco), in Czecho-
slovakia and elsewhere ; all of
which, in the first-hand reports
of the trial, makes incredible
reading.
In the course of this “confes-
sion” Rajk said he had come
to the conclusion that Marshal
Tito had a connection with the
Americans, “possibly because the
Americans knew something
about Tito’s past,” He said
he had supplied the Yugo-
slavs with all manner of secret
information. At a secret meeting
during Marshal Tito’s visit to
Budapest in 1947 General
Rankovich, Yugoslav Minister
of the Interior, had explained
that the aim was to overthrow
the “people’s democracies” and
the Soviet influence and to estab-
lish bourgeois democracies rely-
ing on America. A federation
was to be created with Yugo-
slavia at the centre.
Rajk said that at another
secret meeting last October, after
the Cominform decree denounc-
ing Tito, he was told that Tito
was now certain the plan could
be accomplished only by armed
intervention.
All the anti-Soviet forces were
to be united, and at the right
time, after leaflets had been dis-
tributed and frontier incidents
provoked, Hungarians from
Yugoslavia would come in
armed, in Hungarian uniforms,
supported by Fascist forces of
refugees from the western zones
of Austria, moving through
Yugoslavia. They were to be
controlled and merged in the
Yugoslav army, since Marshal
Tito did not trust them. Marshal
Tito, Rajk said, was playing the
same game in other countries.
The London “Times” corres-
pondent at the trial noted that
Rajk had “spent four months in
prison” prior to being brought
there to make his “confession,”
and that he was “grey in the
face.” And well he might have
been grey in the face! As an
indication of what he no doubt
had gone through in jail, “From
his entrance [into the trade-
union-hall court] at 9 o’clock,
throughout the reading of the
indictment.... until the end of
his own statement at half-past
three, he was standing all the
time.” He, of course, pleaded
guilty, and “He spoke more as
one relating a narrative than as
a man confessing.”
Up to the time of his arrest
Rajk was known in Hungary and
throughout Europe “as one of
the boldest and most fanatical
members of the Hungarian Com-
munist inner ring.” Ironically,
“As Minister of the Interior he
organised one trial after another
of political opponents” ; indeed,
he was for this criticised even
by Communists for being too
ruthless, but the Hungarian
Communist leader, Rako s i,
silenced that with the Com-
munist last word on the matter;
“We trust Comrade Rajk.” On
the trial evidence London
“Times” editorially commented:
“What passes comprehension
is the bland and almost imper-
sonal manner in which he, like
many a Russian fifteen years
ago, proclaimed his guilt. Such
confessions have been given
various sinister explanations,
none of which wholly carries
conviction, but of them all the
most credible is that in ceaseless
cross-examination the accused
becomes convinced that any de-
viationary thoughts or counsel
must weaken party solidarity
and so give enemies of the
regime their openings for sub-
versive activities. Hence, in talk
nighf after night, accompanied
by threats, he becomes per-
suaded that he is as much guilty
of the likely consequences as if
he had actually plotted them,
and finally that the last service
he can render to the cause of
party unity for the future is to
confess himself a traitor.”
That, of course, falls a mighty
long way short of explaining
Mindszcnty, though it might
pass for Rajk, on the “true sig-
nificance” of whose trial the
“Times” further editorially com-
mented :
“Although - the Communist
Press campaign before the trial
has been as wild as is customary,
and although many of the
charges themselves pass belief,
the indictment has been carefully
drawn up. It is designed to have
the maximum impact on public
opinion throughout the East
European States, especially to-
wards Marshal Tito. In a fun-
damental sense the chief prose-
cutor is Mr. Stalin and the de-
fendant Marshal Tito.... Ma-
rshal Tito is brought into the pic-
ture in the worst possible light
as one relying for support from
traitors in the camp. The pro-
cess is designed to be another
blow against any latent ‘Titoism’
among Communists in Eastern
Europe.”
Thus, as the “Times” further
noted, “All the threads of the
trial lead back to Marshal Tito.
He has charged Russia and the
East European countries often
enough with interfering in Yugo-
slav internal affairs. Now the
prosecution brings forward
charges that he has interfered,
with a vengeance, in Hungary’s
internal affairs. He stands
accused of plotting, in league
with the United States, to over-
throw the regime and murder
the leaders in order to restore
something like the old order.”
Any one of the long list of
acts that Rajk “confessed” to
would have ensured the death-
sentence passed on him. Per-
haps the “Times” may be right
in accepting that such a fan-
tastic “confession” might have
been produced by the “ceaseless
cross-examination” behind jail
walls, in conjunction with a com-
bination of psychological and
physical torture. Among the
explanations which the “Times”
would seem to have its doubts
about, but which have strong
supporters among expatriates,
who have had a close-up of
Soviet Communism at work, is
that of the use of a drug capable
of changing a man’s entire char-
acter for a given time —long
erjough to make certain of his
“confessing” precisely what has
been impressed into his drugged
mind.
That belief was strongly stated
here in an article by former
Hungarian Prime Minister Nagy
after the trial of Cardinal Minds-
zenty; and (as cabled) Tito has
himself stated (October 3) that
Moscow has “mysterious and
monstrous methods of forcing
confessions from political
prisoners” and had used them on
Rajk.
Trade-unions and
Troops.
An extraordinary change in
trade-union attitude towards re-
cruiting, for which there is no
noticeable parallel in Australia,
is expressed by assistant-general-
secretary A. E. Tiffin in the
official organ of Britain’s Trans-
port and General Workers’
Union,
Revealing a mighty change of
heart. Tiffin admits that when he
first joined the union any article
on the forces would have been
unthinkable unless it condemned
them as “tools of outworn
imperialism.” Now, he says,
trade-unionists should be aware
that eternal vigilance is the price
that must be paid for liberty to
continue building their demo-
cratic society:
“They must realise that every
young man who is encouraged
to believe that his home does not
need trained men to defend it or
that this defence is not his busi-
ness is a recruit for the army
which is being trained to destroy
democracy.”
Your turn. Ward and Co.
Theft and Pilferage.
Australia could do with a
counterpart of the Co-ordinating
Committee on Theft and Pilfer-
age which was set up by Lon-
don Chamber of Commerce and
25 other organisations.
Maybe we are obliquely re-
ferred to in the one crurpb of
comfort the committee includes
in its findings—that theft and
pilferage of goods in transit is
greater “abroad” than in Britain.
Anyway, Britain has plenty, the
committee finding that pilfering
on the British Railways is ex-
pected to fall this year to only
10 times—instead of, as last
year, 15 times —what it was in
1938. And London “Times”
editorially comments:
“A two-way traffic in stealing
causes goods and gadgets in
transit to live as dangerously as
travellers once did among the
highwaymen o n Hounslow
Heath. Anything assigned by
the public to the railways or
docks is regarded as fair game
for thieves, who may or may not
be employees of the transport
bodies, and, in revenge, the
public helps itself generously to
towels, bulbs, and whatever else
it can lift or wrench away from
carriages, cabins and hotel bed-
rooms.”
As the “Times” paraphrases
such little help as the committee
is able to offer:
“The solution offered, in this
first report, is that those who
cast their goods upon trains and
ships must pack them stoutly,
observe a discreet censorship in
describing the contents where
all may read about it, add secret
markings, when possible, to help
the police—and hope for the
best.”
War Remodels Europe.
Figures compiled by a U.N.O.
commission throw some odd
light on the extraordinary
changes wrought in Europe by
the War. They show, in par-
ticular, how war has now come
to the home fronts, how popu-
lations have been shifted about,
and how much Russia has
profited.
Europe’s total “war deaths”
are put at over 15,000,000, or
3,000,000 more than the excess
of births over “normal deaths”
during the war years. The great
change from the times when
wars could be waged on remote
battlefields with no risk to the
general masses of nations is
grimly indicated by the fact that
of the “war deaths” (which in-
clude those resulting from geno-
cide), 9,000,000 were civilian,
compared with 6,000,000 mili-
tary.
Even more surprising the
finding that civilian “war deaths”
in the German-occupied coun-
tries of Western Europe,


AfyAs Vv-c'v
I :
«i
Schweppervescence
lasts the whole drink through
GOOD WHISKY
deserves FRESH SODA
jot 6
th er6 £ G Ji#PP
including Belgium, which
frequently has been described as
“unscathed” by bombing, were
higher absolutely and propor-
tionately than civilian deaths in
much-bombed Britain.
Altogether, the total popula-
tion of Europe excluding
Russia —fell from 392,100,000
to 383,800,000 during the war
and the first two post-war years,
but nearly all of that decline
was in countries bordering on
Russia; “most of the loss is
accounted for by transfers of
population to Russia.”
Another of the many odd
results is that the present popu-
lation of Germany is only
1.100.000 less than when Ger-
many included Danzig and the
territories of East Prussia now
in Poland. Germany lost
9.200.000 through territorial
changes, but has gained nearly
6.500.000 from population
migrations since the war. Ger-
many’s population within the
new frontiers was reduced to
60.800.000 at the end of 1945,
but today is back to 68,600,000,
making Germany still far and
away the largest country in
Europe outside Russia.
Poland’s civilian war dead
are put at 4,200,000 (not includ-
ing 1,500,000 lost in what were
formerly Poland’s eastern pro-
vinces) ; seven times all the
military losses of all the Western
European countries. Despite a
high birthrate, Poland’s popula-
tion now is 11,000,000 less than
before the war. Seven millions
of this net loss is the result of
population and territorial losses
to Russia.
Council of Europe.
A summing-up by London
“Spectator” can be taken as
representative of general respon-
sible British findings on the first
getting-together of the Council
of Europe:—
“Strasbourg has been a great
experiment.... there can be no
question that it has justified it-
self. .. .If the Assembly did no
more than survive its first session,
it would have justified its crea-
tion. It has, in fact, done much
more than survive. It has in-
vested itself with a personality
and proved the value and the
practicability of international
co-operation in a new and singu-
larly hopeful shape.”
As a similarly representative
American view, a correspondent
of N. Y. “Times” sums up that
“The most interesting fact about
the Council of Europe is that
nobody dares to take it lightly
. ... .The truth is that the respon-
sible statesmen of Europe dare
not risk staying out of this
movement. They may not en-
tertain great hopes of its success
in the near future, but they
know that this is the way history
is going. Soviet conquest of the
East has impelled the West to
seek political unity.”
The same writer noted the
significance of Mr. Churchill’s
leading part in the establish-
ment ;
“Mr. Churchill’s leadership of
the European movement is not
accidental. History has justified
him as a prophet of coming
events and an evaluator of the
forces at work in the world. His
advocacy of the unity of Europe
is as impassioned today as were
his warnings of what would
happen if England and her
allies were unprepared for the
onslaught of Hitler. The same
prescience moves him when he
says that Europe must unite or
perish. He has the sense to see
history in the making rather
than after it is made ; therefore,
his vision of the alternative
cannot be disregarded when he
emphasises the necessity of in-
' corporating Germany, or as
much of it as the West can in-
fluence, into the European
system.” '
A London “News-Chronicle”
correspondent noticed on the
final day one of the speakers re-
— "Washington Post” (U.S.A.).
CLENCHED-FIST SALUTE.
mark: “I am sure the House
will agree with me....” The
correspondent commented: —
“The House! That was it.
What had begun as a conference
ended as a Parliament.” He
quoted Mr. Herbert Morrison:
“As an old Parliamentarian I
already have the sense of a de-
veloping Parliamentary spirit in
this new institution.”
“How different,” commented
the correspondent, “from U.N.O.
or the old League Assembly.”
Voting, he pointed out, was not
by national or party groups, but
man by man. “Many of the
divisions at Strasbourg were
very close indeed, with national
and party groups all at sixes and
sevens. How different, I repeat,
from U.N.0.!
national groupings would
have perpetuated the barriers
which must come down if
Europe is to be one. Strasbourg
would have mirrored Lake Sue-
cess or Geneva. Instead of
European Ms.P. the honorable
members would have tended to
regard themselves as British,
French, Italian and so on.”
As it was, “As often as not
British Conservatives and French
Socialists found themselves
allied against British Labor,
which consoled itself by
flirting with the Catholic Demo-
crats, Thus politics went into
the melting-pot, and only the
Irish remained true to form by
contriving, as they did more
than once, to be agin the whole
lot.
“All of which was just as it
should be, for this was the first
Parliament of Europe—some-
thing (to quote Mr. Morrison
again) that had never been
attempted before in history.
And, therefore, calling for a
completely new political line-
up. ...,
“The rules of the House—
combining, as they did, the best
in Anglo-Saxon and Latin pro-
cedure—were excellent. Mem-
bers addressed the Chair, as in
Britain ; not the House, as in
France. And again, as in Britain,
they spoke from their places, not
from the rostrum, which was
used only by the rapporteur of
each committee when he
presented his report. There was
no guillotine, but speeches were
limited, sometimes to 20 minutes,
at . other tlraes to five—always
W!t fi fi ie consen t of the House,
“The standard of debate,” this
eyewitness concluded, “was
much higher than in any other
international gathering I have
known. How, indeed, could it
have been otherwise with the
pick of Europe’s national Par-
laments here assembled.”
As for the future, N. Y.
“Herald Tribune,” in its Paris
edition, noted that, despite the
legacy of doubt from centuries
of divided interests and suspected
motives, there were only two
votes against and 90 for the pro-
posal to try to set up the com-
bined political authority which
would be the real, necessary
objective; —■
“The task of evolving plans
for a centralised political
authority has been given to the
Assembly’s general affairs com-
mittee, and a report is called for
in eight months’ time. Various
proposals will be examined, and
doubtless the committee will
have a hard time reconciling the
views of those who want to work
for unity and those who want to
talk about it. The meeting has
symbolised the need which
Europeans feel for a better way
of doing business among them-
selves. It is up to the Govern-
ments represented at Strasbourg
to see that it becomes more
than a symbol.”
The Brabazon’s Kennel.
London “Times,” which isn’t
given to rash enthusiasms or
overstatements, takes the brakes
clean off to describe the “build-
ings” where Britain’s huge
Brabazon plane lives when it’s
at home.
Representing nearly £3,000,000
of the £12,000,000 which the
Brabazon experiment has cost,
the “buildings,” says the
“Times,” “merit attention in
their own right as one of the
most spectacular architectural
achievements of the post-war
years.”
The “assembly hall” is “117 ft.
high to the crown of its triple-
curved roof, and has a north
window over 1000 ft. long.”
In one interior the completed
Brabazon is undergoing further
tests on the typical British prin-
ciples of ensuring maximum
safety and altogether getting as
near perfection as possible; in
another, a second Brabazon is
being constructed: “The fa?ade
is more than 1000 ft. long—
longer than the Queen Mary—
and the three pairs of doors each
have a clear span, when fully
open, of 330 ft. They are 65ft.
high, and each pair is worked by
four 5-h.p. electric motors. The
whole front of the assembly hall
can be opened up in two
minutes.
“The interior is so vast —like
a cathedral with a triple nave—
that the Brabazon itself is
dwarfed.” As well it might be ;
the area is eight acres.
Dragnet Digest.
N.Z. Defence Realism. Maybe
with a side-glance at Australia, Lon-
don “Times” editorially comments on
Maoriland’s adoption of peace-time
military training: “By common con-
sent New Zealanders are ready to
take a full, and if necessary a fight-
ing, share in the world responsibili-
ties of the British Commonwealth
they recognise that in their own
regional defence a merely passive
preparedness is not enough.”
* * * *
Nationalised Law, No ! —Though
their Communist cousins of the “iron-
curtain” countries manage to do it
all right, Britain’s Socialists appar-
ently realise that nationalised law
would be the final translation of free
democracy into general joke. At all
events, Attorney-General Sir Hartley
Shawcross, addressing fellow-lawyers
at a Blackpool meeting, admitted that
full protection of man’s liberty and
freedom could only be given “if
there were a strong legal profession
and an independent judiciary.” There
were some, he further stated, who
thought there should be a State legal
machine, just as there was a State
service in medicine and education,
but there were always two interests
to consider—the conflicting parties.
A nationalised service, without re-
gard for the conflicting interests,
would be inimical to the public
interest, and quite impracticable in a
democracy.
* * * *
Color Television. —Latest estimates
put the number of families with tele-
vision-sets in the U.S. at 2,000,000;
cost of a set (much of it time-pay-
ment), anything from $199 to $lOOO.
All these sets are designed to get
black-and-white images, and, as color
experiments were being pushed hard,
the responsible U.S. authority had
laid down that color broadcasting
would be permitted only when
ordinary television-sets could be
adapted to it. Lately the U.S.
Radio Corporation announced that
color television had been achieved
“completely adaptable” to the or-
dinary sets. So far, good. What
isn’t so good is that the “adaptors”
themselves are expected to be de-
cidedly costly.
* * * *
Infantile-paralysis Puzzler. Two
extraordinary sentences from a report
by London “Times’s” medical cor-
respondent: “Among the many
puzzles of poliomyelitis is the ap-
parent fact that outbreaks are more
prevalent and more serious in coun-
tries with a relatively high standard
of living and sanitation. Equally, it
has been thought that in any com-
munity there has been a concentra-
tion of cases in the more sanitary
parts of the area.”
* * * *
Molotov Over Asia. —The question
of Molotov’s present whereabouts,
recently quoted here from the usually
well-informed “United Nations
World” (which professed itself com-
pletely mystified), is no mystery at
all in the view of a Washington cor-
respondent of N. Y. “Herald
Tribune,” who upholds another U.S.
view quoted here some time earlier:
“The Soviets are directing their drive
for power in Asia as though it were
a major war effort. The supreme
commander of this effort is no less
a mart than V. M. Molotov.” Also,
“Everywhere in Asia the conviction
is growing that the United States has
written off not only China, but all
Asia. This conviction is Molotov’s
greatest single asset.”
* * * *
Attlee on U.N.O. —Evidently
Britain’s Prime Minister doesn’t share,
the wonderful optimism about U.N.O.
contained in Dr. Evatt’s expansive
breast. “Let us remember [is Mr.
Attlee’s finding] that previous at-
tempts to build up an organisation
for the peace of the world, or even
more limited objectives for more
limited areas, have failed in the past,
even where conditions were much
more favorable. Let us remember
that the United Nations was born
out of the agony of a terrible war,
and that that war left a legacy of
problems—economic, social and poli-
tical —which must take years to solve.
It was surely rather optimistic to
hope that human beings who, after
the lesson of the first world war,
failed after only 20 years to prevent
another would develop at once wis-
dom and understanding.”
* * * *
“Pravda” v. “Borba.” —Noting that
the word-war between the Kremlin
and Belgrade has been most furiously
waged by, on the one hand, “Pravda”
(which means “truth”) and, on the
other, by “Borba” (which means
“struggle”), “New York Times” com-
ments: “The names of the papers
are symbolic. Tito’s ‘struggle’ is
against what the Kremlin considers
to be a basic ‘truth’ of Communism
—that the decisions of the Com-
munist party of the Soviet Union
must be the line for Communists the
world over. Under that concept a
‘deviationist’ such as Tito is the most
hated of men.”
* * * *
Rajk Asks For It. —Whatever
makes them do it, the “confessing”
Corns certainly ask for what duly
comes to them. Thus, Laszlo Rajk:
“Before sentence is passed, and to
avoid any misunderstandings, I want
to emphasise that everything I have
done I have done deliberately and
as a result of my own resolve. To
a certain extent I was influenced by
international imperialism and by Tito ;
but their influence played only a
secondary part. To a certain extent
I have become the instrument of
Tito and his gang, who are following
the footsteps and the policy of Hitler
in the Balkans and eastern Europe,
and who are also in the service of
the American imperialists. The con-
clusion I want to make clear is that
I agree to the majority of what the
public prosecutor has stated, and what-
ever sentence the court may decide
to pass 1 shall consider it as just.”


‘Were hiding
our time
fir a new VauxhaU
m
t-s
/
A
V-»
U¥
That’s just what lots of people are doing. Why? Because
Vauxhall has proved itself to be Australia’s favourite
British car and because Vauxhall’s many desirable features
make it a car well worth waiting a little longer for.
Vauxhall gives economy with its 6-phase carburation;
comfort with its independent front wheel suspension;
safety with its hydraulic brakes; performance with its
flexible overhead valve engines; grace with its smart
newly styled bodies. Vauxhall gives you all this, and
more. It gives you such outstanding value for money
that if you, too, bide your time for a new Vauxhall
you’ll be welf rewarded.
VAUXHALL
18 h,p, Velox —l2 h.p . Wyvern
The VAUXHALL
range includes
8 distinct models
WYVERN 12 h.p. - A cyl.
Caleche (Tourer) .. £549
Saloon (Aust. Body) £620
Saloon (Imp. Panels) £636
Saloon (Eng. Body) £660
Plus Sales Tax
VELOX 18 h.p. - 6 cyl.
Caleche (Tourer) .. £599
Saloon (Aust. Body) £670
Saloon (Imp. Panels) £686
Saloon (Eng. Body) £710
Plus Sales Tax
• There's an “Air Chief ”
radio specially designed for
Vauxhall.
• Enquire about the
G.M.A.C. Confidential Pay-
ment Plan.
jIVs as jEnglattfc
wmmmmm.
GENERAL MOTORS - HOLDEN’S LIMITED
Brisbane . Sydney . Melbourne . Adelaide . Perth
V7/24
S e r v iced
IAVINA
17-jewelled Swiss
Masterpieces
m
with
NON-MAGNETIC ESCAPEMENT
IAVINA
WATCHES
i Founded in 1852-y illeret, Suisse
LW2
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION T 6 ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A. A. A. HILLTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 201 b,
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
Cigarette Lighter Service
We stock spare parts for every well-
known make of Cigarette Lighter.
Send your defective lighter to us.
Repairs returned post free to any
address in the Commonwealth.
ROLLS RAZOR
CO. OF AUST. PTY., LTD.,
8a Castlereagh St., Sydney. BW 3038
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“For sale, cream lacquered 3s.
bedroom suite.” —Suburban paper.
Here’s one thing anyway that
hasn’t gone up since devalua-
tion.
If some of our politicians were
obliged to eat their words they'd
die of ptomaine poisoning.
•F
“A seven - months - old cockerel
about a fortnight ago appeared weak
in the back portion, would walk a
few steps and then sit down; now he
seems unable to walk, and goes back-
ward when he tries.”
—lnquirer in “Poultry.”
Perhaps a change of gears
would help.
“Among cries he investigated were
the urders for which Aerican soldier
Leonski was hanged in 1942.”
—Melbourne “Herald.”
Obviously a an of uch experi-
ence.
4* 4- +
“When opened, the full flavor of
the outdoors enters —the enchanting
roar of the pounding serf and the
invigorating smell of the salty sea.”
—Religious magazine.
No, it’s not from an article on
the U.S.S.R. There the serf gets
pounded.
•i* 4* 4*
“Wanted, by middle-aged M.C.
with grand son, unfurn. flat or half-
house.” —Suburban paper.
Should make landlords with
not-so-grand daughters bite.
Leaves from the Past.
“The producers of the motion-pic-
ture version of Adam and Eve are
having their troubles trying to picture
the Biblical classic faithfully.”
—Sydney “D.T.’’
What more idyllic picture could
Producers make in Hollywood
Than one wherein the lady
roamed
Just clad in tresses smoothly
combed
Through meadows lush and
forests dense
In lovely pristine innocence ?
And just imagine with what style
Would be portrayed the serpent’s
guile,
And how his well-conceived
temptation
Would be a premiere sensation !
Yet one dilemma might arise
To daunt the Moguls shrewd and
wise
If censors filled with modesty
Refused to let the hero be
Arrayed in Nature's raiment
scant
And on this score proved Adam-
ant.
D.H.E.
Encouraging Discouragement
“Without reference to the Railway
Commissioner, N.S.W. Premier Mc-
Girr announced at a conference of the
N.S.W. branch of the A.R.U., many
of the delegates to which were Com-
munists, that 27,000 members of the
railway wages stalf would, from next
July, receive an additional week’s
annual leave on full pay, a concession
that will add a further heavy burden
to the almost-bankrupt railways. He
warned the conference that ‘in mak-
ing fresh demands the unions must
remember the state of railway
finances.’ ”
“Fighting” Jimmy was sitting
with his feet up on his desk im-
mersed in a slim volume, Hints
on Cheer-chasing, when the
secretary came in and told him
not to forget that the biennial
conference of the Joggle-
spreaders and Winch-winders’
Union was due to commence at
2 p.m., and that he would be
expected to attend.
Jimmy’s fighting-Irish blood
shot up to the tepid mark, and
he would have seen red if his
outlook hadn’t already been
suffused with a permanent deep
pink at the thought that he
should be expected to jettison
his “Labor” principles by
attending a meeting of Com-
munists, and you could have
almost seen his mind taking on
that same inflexible firmness
that distinguishes a jelly put out
in the February sun to set.
“I’ll not go!” he said with
brave defiance. “Fancy the
Premier of a democratic State
bidden to attend a meeting run
by people whose avowed inten-
tion is the destruction of Par-
liamentary government, and
“Check my oil while you're there , Doc .”
especially a ‘Labor’ Govern-
ment > on behalf of a foreign
tyrant.”
“Exactly, sir,” agreed the sec-
retary, “You’ll take no notice,
of course, sir, of the union’s
threat that if you failed to
attend they’d consider disaffili-
♦!,. a r t» „
atmg from the A.L.P., with re-
sultant loss to that body of the
union’s canitation fees and that
d , ni ° dS capitationi lees, and that
they’d recommend to all other
Commo-controlled unions to
follow suit.”
As the full import of this
awful threat at last penetrated
to his mental processes the
Premier turned a pea - green
around the gills, and he was
already running before his feet
hit the floor. Ten minutes later
he bustled, breathless, into the
conference-room at the Trades
Hall.
Comrade Warby, the union’s
president, grinned triumphantly
as “Fighting” Jimmy entered,
and he casually indicated a seat,
which the visitor humbly ac-
cepted. Before declaring the
conference open the chief Com-
rade got down on his stomach
and crawled a foot or two to-
wards a large photo on the wall
of Joe, after which mark of de-
votion he called for a show of
the delegates’ loyalty. As a
forest of clenched fists were
raised Jimmy shuffled uncom-
fortably, wondering what he
was expected to do.
After respectfully waiting to
be given permission to address
the conference, “Fighting”
Jimmy got to his feet.
“Well, gentlemen,” he began,
and there was enough oil in his
voice to have lubricated a 10-
ton trailer from Sydney to Bris-
bane, “I am deeply appreciative
that the ‘Labor’ Government
can depend for loyal support on
this great trade-union —support
which will make for solidarity
among those bearing the work-
ing-class banner against the
hosts of the plutocratic over-
lords from whom our political
opponents take their orders.
You know how I share with all
my Socialist friends present a
hearty detestation of that profit
motive beloved of the greedy
capitalists, of the accumulation
of wealth that rightly belongs
to the workers who pro-
duce” —
A raucous voice broke in
then with “W’en’s yer Guvver-
ment goin’ to pass a law
pro’ibitin’ strings o’ country
pubs an’ chemist shops from
becomin’ a monopoly o’ one
wealthy family?” Whereupon
“Fighting” Jimmy suddenly re-
membered the real reason for
his visit.
“Gentlemen,” he said, and,
strangely enough, some of the
delegates thought be meant
them, “I have a few announce-
ments to make on behalf of the
‘Government,’ which sincerely
hopes your union will refrain
from taking any further strike
action—at least not till after the
elections.
“Firstly, we have decided to
grant to members of the union,
all of whom, of course, are em-
ployed by the State Joggle and
Winch Board, a special bonus
each week of four pounds from
next pay-day in recognition of
their loyalty to the ‘Labor’
Government in continuing to
work. I have also decided, as a
gesture to members of the union
for their splendid effort in oc-
casionally keeping sober while
on the job, to raise the war-risk
loading from four shillings to
ten shillings a day.”
“Fighting” Jimmy paused,
waiting for the thunder of
cheers. Instead all he got were
surly looks. He might have
muttered to himself something
about gratitude being a marble-
hearted fiend had there been
someone handy to tell him thaf!
Shakspeare had said it. As it
was, he merely scratched his
head in a furious endeavor to
think of some extra concession
to win their favor.
“Oh, and another thing,” he
burst out at last, “there will now
be sick leave for two months
each year on full pay, to be
cumulative.”
One delegate got up. “Wot
about the free mornin’ beer
we’ve been demandin’ and never
got?” he asked.
“Fighting” Jimmy raised his
hands. “Gentlemen, gentlemen,”
he said smoothly, “don’t be —
ah —unreasonable at this stage
in your demands. Although the
Joggle and Winch Board is the
most successful of our State
enterprises, remember that last
year’s loss on operations was
still over two hundred thou-
sand!”
Bo.
A Model Husband.
“Britain’s only full-time male
model, 42-year-old Londoner Roy
Vincent, this week rejected his 57th
marriage proposal.”
You’ll praise the deep sagacity
Of one who simply wouldn’t
trade >
His cherished freedom for a
maid,
Or widow flush with £ s. d.
For what is wealth but empty
dross
That leaves an honest man un-
moved ?
And who would barter pleasures
proved
To gain a fortune —and a boss?
Yet those who sought to win his
vows
Paid him a dainty compliment
He’ll cherish, for it’s evident
They viewed him as a fitting
spouse.
BERT.


GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer-
lasting. That's why a Globlte
costs less in the long run.
Mad» by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
My
ILBEYS
to)
m i
i
r
m
si
Hi
m
N?
Ss^
ft:
©
5^
2TH
a
*&£ Jili-ro^
02
vecadton
evevy
frBISiJ
VICTORIA
RACING CLUB
FLEMINGTON
CUP WEEK
Derby Day . . 29th October
Cup Day .. Ist November
Oaks Day . . 3rd November
C. B. Fisher
Plate . , sth November
K. A. Morrison, Secretary.
Ancestors of
an Industry
m
rth i Ur
WdltCT Wddott discovered a process for
making chlorine that was adopted throughout the
world. In Weldon's day, manganese dioxide was
used in the manufacture of chlorine from hydro-
chloric acid, but the manganese was very difficult
to recover. By adding lime and calcium car-
bonate, and treating the mixture with air, Weldon
found that 95% of the manganese dioxide could
be regenerated for making more chlorine. As a
result of this discovery, perfected in 1870, the
chlorine manufacturers were able to produce four
times as much bleaching powder at less than half
its previous cost, and the industry saved £750,000
within the year of Weldon's “manganese
regeneration” process being adopted.
Born in Leicestershire in 1832, Weldon moved to
London in 1854 to try his hand at journalism.
“Weldon’s Register of Facts and Occurences
relating to Literature, the Sciences and the Arts,”
made an unsuccessful appearance as a weekly
magazine in 1860, but he acquired considerable
knowledge of chemistry whilst editing it. Yet
his first patent for his manganese process was
brought out before he had ever entered a labora-
tory, seen an experiment, or even heard a
chemical lecture. In 1866 he met Colonel Gamble,
in whose chemical works in Lancashire Weldon
perfected his process three years later. In 1882
he was elected a Fellow of the
Royal Society, and the following
year became President of the
Society of Chemical Industry.
He died in 1885.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
In the excitement of ripping out
his 200-words-per-minute description
of the thrilling final furlong of the
Caulfield Cup, one radio commen-
tator, we are told, tossed off the
delightful phrase “And now here’s
Lincoln coming home like a wet
blanket.” A refreshing variation of a
worn cliche, and, as it happened, most
apt; Lincoln certainly put a damper
on the hopes of the countless punters
whose cash had held Comic Court
a red-hot favorite for the Cup ever
since weights were issued.
Though beaten, the favorite lost
not an inch of stature, giving
his supporters a grand run
for their money. With his great
speed Comic Court was able to take
up a perfect position right from the
start. While his stablemate and full-
brother Comedy Prince moved up to
do most of the pacemaking, Comic
Court ran along easily in about third
place on the rails. Rounding the
home turn (where Saxony fell, for-
tunately causing no serious trouble)
Comedy Prince went a little wide,
Comic Court slipped through the gap
presented, and the crowd settled
down to cheer the favorite home.
However, St. Razzle, after having
made up a lot of ground, was hard
on Comic Court’s heels, Blue Legend
and Stamen were finishing very well
indeed, and, further back, Lincoln
was most methodically threading his
way through the field. Nearing the
post St. Razzle, having headed Comic
Court and Blue Legend, looked the
winner, but Lincoln, enjoying a huge
advantage in the weights, was able
to gain the upper hand on the post.
With both the topweight and the
bottom weight involved, the finish was
a tribute to the handicapper, Lincoln
winning by a half-length from St.
Razzle, after which it was a neck to
Comic Court, a head to Blue Legend
and a head to Stamen; Our Land
and Royal Tan were about a half-
length further back on either side
of Stamen.
No excuses were made for the
favorite’s “failure”; no excuses are
necessary for a horse who makes
such a game attempt as did Comic
Court in the circumstances. There
might be mentioned, however, as
extenuating circumstances, the facts
that Comic Court carried topweight
on a track so heavy that the win-
ner’s time of 2.36 i was the slowest
for more than 30 years and Lincoln,
with 6.10, was the most lightly-
weighted Caulfield Cup winner since
Oakleigh scored with 6.9 in 1887.
By the same token St. Razzle’s was
a splendid performance, as he con-
ceded the winner two stone and was
in receipt of only 51b. from Comic
Court.
Lincoln’s success, worth £5OOO in
stakes and a £2OO trophy, plus what
might be picked up at odds of 12
to 1, was a substantial, if belated,
reward for persistence with a horse
who had previously given connec-
tions a pretty lean spin. Lincoln
won his first race, at his third start
as a two-year-old, in February, 1945 ;
appropriately it was at Caulfield.
Three years and 29 starts later he
picked up his second race—a £7O
Welter at Geelong. As a six-year-old,
in September last year, at Fleming-
ton, Lincoln won the second division
of a 10-furlongs Welter; those were
his total successes prior to Saturday’s
Caulfield Cup victory.
Owned by A. H. Griffiths, who
raced that good but most unlucky
stayer Lawrence, and trained by
veteran Lou Robertson, Lincoln is
an aged gelding by Manitoba from
Lipstick. On his breeding there is
certainly no reason why he should
not have been capable of the Cup
distance. Manitoba, a brilliant two-
year-old in his day, was a son of the
English Derby winner Manna. Lip-
stick was a daughter of Spearhead
(sire of the Melbourne Cup-winner
Spearfelt) and Comedy Queen (by
Comedy King).
Lincoln was ridden —most com-
petently, too —by the 19-year-old New
Zealand apprentice N. Eastwood,
who had no difficulty in making the
weight—he scales well under 6st.
Young Eastwood came to Australia
recently with C. G. Humphries,
trainer of the visiting Cup candidate
Royal Tan,
According to the front-page story
of a Sydney Sunday paper, which
deserves a prize of some sort, book-
makers “lost heavily” on the Caul-
field Cup. Lost heavily! With the
betting 10 to 1 bar one and the
7-to-4 favorite beaten. Ye gods!
Any fielder who lost on the Cup
ought to hand in his licence and
take up punting—or writing.
In other races at Caulfield un-
doubtedly the outstanding perform-
ance was that of the brilliant filly
Chicquita, notching up her fifth in
a row (from six starts) by winning
the Thousand Guineas.
Inside the first furlong of the mile
journey Chicquita was chopped off
when other runners crossed sharply,
and approaching the six-furlongs
mark she was a good 10 lengths
behind the tearaway leader Lady
Pirouette. By the time they reached
the turn Chicquita had made up her
ground and streaked away to lead
by five lengths, a margin which she
comfortably maintained to the finish.
Second money went to the 200-to-l
“Creep up behind me. Would you ?”
chance Broadway, just shading the
Sydney visitor Chastise.
Chicquita, who was passed in at
the yearling sales when the best
offered for her was 300 guineas, is
a daughter of the imported Blank
and the Equator mare Starr Faithful.
A winner himself at distances from
9 furlongs to 2\ miles, Blank (by
Foxlaw) has sired a number of good
stayers, including the Australian Cup-
winner Spectre and the Adelaide
Cup-winner Blankenburg, who was a
full-brother to Chicquita. An in-
teresting feature of Chicquita’s pedi-
gree is that both her parents trace
back directly, on the dam’s ■ side, to
Radium, a son of Bend Or and sire
of the dam of Night Raid, the sire
of Phar Lap.
* * * *
If City Tattersall’s Club’s meetings
continue in their present vein the
Club may be suffering a severe de-
cline in the number of its bookmaker
members. At City Tatt’s spring
meeting last year a card of six races
resulted in the successes of four
favorites, a second-favorite, and, as
“outsider” of the day, a third-
favorite at 13 to 2. This year’s
corresponding meeting held at Rand-
wick on Saturday ran to seven races,
which were won by four favorites, a
second-favorite, a third-favorite and
one comparative rough ’un at 8 to 1.
Certainly the best performances
seen a! Randwick were those of Aqua
Regis, which statement isn’t quite
as odd as it may sound. The
beautifully-bred and fine-looking
three-year-old was saddled up twice
for two splendid wins, an effort
which threw the Older Members into
excited discussions, all of which
seemed to begin with: “Well, I re-
call” . . .
Present writer does not recall
seeing at Randwick quite such a
feat as that of Aqua Regis. With
one race intervening, his two wins
were little more than an hour apart.
First-up the colt started in the 7-
furlongs Club Welter. Second in the
weights with 9.2, and favorite at 11
to 4, Aqua Regis looked always the
winner, hit the front at the distance
and won by three lengths. Then,
and with A. Podmore replacing G.
Moore in the saddle, Aqua Regis was
signalled as a starter in the 6-furlongs
George Herdsman Stakes; the amaze-
ment of the multitude was reflected
by the fact that they allowed him,
this time, to go out third in the
betting in a field of six. He carried
a 71b. penalty for his previous win,
and, without looking in danger of
defeat, scored by lengths from
Heroic Sovereign, with Bungyman
four lengths further away—facts
which, we should imagine, were
rather grimly noted by the handi-
capper.
Aqua Regis’s most recent form
had not suggested any particular like-
lihood of his winning a double' at
Randwick. Just on a year ago he
began his racing career in great style
by running third in the Breeders’
Plate and winning the. Canonbury
Stakes. This time up, however, prior
to Saturday, his efforts had been:
last in the Canterbury Stakes, stayed
at the post in the Chelmsford Stakes,
and ninth and sixteenth in races this
month at Randwick. Aqua Regis is
a son of Midstream and that once
brilliant mare Amiable, who for years
held the Australian mile record at
1.34} until Shannon lowered that
time a fraction.
This page’s selection for the
Metrop., in which he ran a creditable
fifth, Snowstream, made amends with
a fine win in City Tattersall’s Gold
Cup. He started at 8 to 1; Roman
Step, Admetus, Dark Marne and Sir
Raven were all preferred in the bet-
ting, but none of that bunch got
near the money. Well ridden by
E. Boon, Snowstream won by two
lengths from Faraway and Wiranya.
* * * *
For Rosehill (before acceptances):—•
Maiden Nursery (fillies): Magic
Maze, 1; Rippling Tide, 2; Queen
Ajax, 3. Maiden (colts and geld-
ings) : Beau Gene, 1; Regnator, 2;
Iroquois, 3. Parramatta Mixed:
Kymac, 1; Jannock, 2; Bay Rex, 3.
Auburn Mixed: Leonardo, I; Royal
Reward, 2; Regal Step, 3. Flying:
Aqua Regis, 1; Karachi, 2; Heroic
Sovereign, 3. October Handicap:
Cape Neddick, 1; Indian Chief, 2;
Faraway, 3. Welter: Dona Marcheta,
1; Lone Duke, 2; Valiant Crown, 3.
For the Moonee Valley Cup: St.
Razzle, 1; Carbon Copy, 2; Prece-
dent, 3.
♦ * * *
Round Liverpool (N.S.W.) during
the past week the air has been as
thick with flying lead as a Wild West
novel, with some hundreds of the
keen-eyed fraternity knocking blazes
out of the targets in quest of the
1949 N.S.W. King’s Prize. The shoot
was won by Wally Oakley, a 40-years-
old New Zealander who, at home,
earns his crust cultivating spuds; if
Oakley is at all partial to the fruit
he grows it is to be hoped, in his
own interest, that he brought a supply
with him.
♦ * * *
Announcing the McWilliam’s Wines
£2500 golf tourney to be held at
Kensington (Sydney) on March 23,
24 and 25, 1950, K. S. McWilliam
said it was the richest golf purse ever
offered in Australia, and would prob-
ably attract “an important overseas
entry.” First prize is £6OO, with 40
lesser prizes. The net gate-money
goes to Legacy.
* * * *
“C.S.”: Eric Cremin’s amazing
performance over the last nine of the
72-hole Australian Open at Kensing-
ton (N.S.W.) was the antithesis of his
personality. A quiet and unassum-
ing man, of small build, his two
great playing attributes are skill and
doggedness. In the Open, everybody
—except Cremin —had awarded the
title to Pickworth when the field
began the last round. Cremin is
probably the most popular golf pro.
in Australia.
* * sN *
Mentioned here recently that former
topnotch boxer Hockey Bennell was
rapidly making his mark as a teacher
of the noble art. Another of his
pupils, Rex Murphy (IL4), turned in
easily the best exhibition of his career
at Leichhardt last week in doing battle
with Ern Jarvis (list.) for the
N-S.W. middleweight title. Doing
most of the leading, and boxing
beautifully, Murphy was a mile ahead
on points until he became over-
anxious after badly rattling Jarvis in
the tenth. Rushing in to finish
matters in the following round,
Murph quickly found himself on his
back. Very groggy, he got to his
feet, was belted down again, and the
ref. at once declared for Jarvis.
* * * *
Doing-in his hand in the first round
of his match last week with the
American Pete Mead, Dave Sands
has had to call a temporary halt to
his campaign for the world middle-
weight title. Despite his early injury
Sands fought on gamely to very easily
beat Mead on points in a hard
slugging match. Curiously, through-
out his very successful spell in Eng-
land, whence he returns with the
Empire middleweight title, Sands has
had a poor spin from the English
sporting Press. Still, Australian
cricketers and tennis-players, to say
nothing of Norman Von Nida, would
scarcely be surprised at that.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
1
v; '
MHEESHs
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores.
.
i
fi#
in
mm
>1) li
Sac
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONI/y RATES
Single Rooms—
From 8/- per night
Double Rooms—
From 15/- per night
'
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless :
"METROPOLE/’
Sydney.
Telephones:
BW2061 (9 lines)
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1927.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Hygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to in-
vestigate the integrity of the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fides of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
NJ3.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane. .
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., 450 Collins St., Melbourne.
Houth Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Rundle
St., Adelaide.
I Vestern Australia; R. P. Mclnerney at
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania : Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: C. T. See Kee, Radolectnx Sales
and Services.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Controlling Mastitis.
11.
“J.R.D.”: As with every other
disease, prevention is better than
cure and very much cheaper.
Even in the best-managed pro-
perties, a cow may still get
mastitis through a fall, or being
horned in the udder, or from the
careless handling of milking-
machines, but the man who
knows the ropes will spot such
a case as soon as the symptoms
appear. By immediate treatment
with penicillin he will effect a
quick cure and by practising
hygienic milking methods will
keep the trouble from spread-
ing.
First stage in preventive mea-
sures is enforcement of cleanli-
ness in bails and yards. Hock-
deep mud in yards and gateways
must be abolished. Yards
should be concreted, floors, bails
and walls washed free of manure
and dirt. After washing down,
apply disinfectant and let it lie
without sweeping off the surplus.
Machinery and utensils should
receive the most scrupulous at-
tention and the milking-claws
should be dipped in a bucket of
hot water, then in sodium hypo-
chlorite steriliser after each cow.
Milkers’ hands should be
thoroughly washed in disinfect-
ant before starting each cow and
the udder should be washed with
a clean cloth dipped in warm
disinfectant just before milking.
This cloth should be boiled
daily. If this is made a regular
drill it will pay dividends. Scores
of progressive farmers have
proved that it does not add to
milking time.
Leg-ropes are reservoirs of
germs. Use leg-chains where
necessary and dip them in hot
hypochlorite solution frequently.
Cows suffering from mastitis or
any other infectious ailment
should be milked last.
Streptococcus germs are re-
sponsible for the biggest propor-
tion of mastitis cases, and they
yield to penicillin—best results
following early application.
After milking, cleanse the teat
of the affected quarter with
methylated spirits. The hands
of the operator should be
equally clean. Remove the cap
of the penicillin tube, insert
nozzle in teat and squeeze con-
tents into udder. Tubes are of
various sizes. The recommended
size contains 25,000 units of
penicillin. One of these should
be used as described, daily for
at least three days. Even al-
though the symptoms clear up
sooner, carry out the full treat-
ment.
It was believed that tubes con-
taining 100,000 units, used as an
initial dose, gave better results in
advanced cases. It is now real-
ised that it is more important to
keep a steady level of penicillin
than to use a high initial dose,
so stick to the 25,000 units, and
if three such tubes in as many
days don’t clear up the attack,
continue the treatment for
several days more.
Efficiency of penicillin is re-
duced where mastitis is due to
staphylococcus germs, which ac-
counts for disparaging remarks
sometimes thrown at penicillin.
This type is difficult to cure,
even under skilled veterinary
attention. Although normally
staph, infections comprise a rela-
tively small percentage of cases,
where a herd has been treated by
the owner with penicillin over
a long period the position may
alter and a majority of obstinate
staphylococcus cases mount up
for lack of special treatment.
Raddling of Rams.
“Big Billy”; During mating
it has many advantages. It con-
sists of raddling the brisket and
forward belly wool so that rump
wool of each ewe served is
colored. By changing the colors
(every 16-17 days as the heat
occurs in unmated ewes) the ewe
flock can be conveniently divided
before lambing into early-,
middle- and late-lambing groups,
thus permitting greater control at
lambing-time.
Raddling has the further ad-
vantage of identifying ewes not
in lamb. Use of raddle indicates
time of the year when lambing is
likely to reach its peak and also,
where single mating is practised,
of infertility in a stud ram by
frequent return of a large
number of ewes to the ram.
Powder raddle can be used, or
mixed with raw linseed oil or
light mineral oil, and applied by
smearing with a flat piece of
stick or brush.
Bulldozers in Scrub.
“Agric”: Two bulldozer units
have been doing good work
scrub-felling in central coastal
Queensland, near Rockhampton.
On one property, which had
previously paid £5 per acre for
contract axe-work, the cost for
the bulldozer unit was only
£2 10s. per acre, and an excel-
lent burn was later obtained ;
the highest cost was £3 per acre.
Equipment used is a bulldozer
of the 2 H.D, type, rated at 100
b.h.p. with a drawbar capacity
of 85 b.h.p. and pushing
hydraulic or cable - operated
blades 12ft. 6in, wide ; the bull-
dozer weighs about 13 tons.
Shortage of rural labor and
widespread use of mechanised
equipment during the war
caused Queensland farmers to
interest themselves in the possi-
bilities of clearing scrub by bull-
dozer. Not all scrub types are
amenable. In heavy scrub, for
instance, many trees of large
diameter might be left standing
and undergrowth might be in-
sufficient to carry the fire neces-
sary for success.
Bulldozed scrubs in the Mil-
man, Marmor and Dalma-Rag-
lan-Bajool areas of C.Q. were
light (trees 4in. to 12in. in
diameter), dense softwood or
vine scrub in which common
timbers are those known as
plum, sarsaparilla, milkwood,
corkwood, slatewood, scrub
yellow-wood and scrub ironbark,
all of little or no commercial
value. Bottle-trees found in this
type of scrub are usually left
standing as a drought standby.
Rapidity with which scrub
can be felled by bulldozer is a
major advantage, and another
favorable factor is the absence
of stumps, enabling treated
scrub land after burning to be
brought under the plough in
much quicker time.
Legs of Beef.
“Clunesman”: At the 1949
Sydney R.A.S. Show the cham-
pion Poll Shorthorn bull was
criticised by some as being too
short-legged, but inspection and
measurement by tape showed
that he had a wonderful carcass.
The foreman of a large meat-
works said that results proved
the Poll Shorthorn to have the
best carcass average of all
breeds, closely followed by the
Shorthorn.
Much nonsense has been writ-
ten about long-legged beasts
being necessary for Australian
conditions; as the R.A.S. judge,
Walter Biggar, said, “Our need
is strength, not length of leg.”
As more bores are sunk dis-
tances to watering-places are
lessened. Speed essential
on droving trips, and it is the
beast that is in good nick, not
the leggy type, that travels well.
In stony country legginess often
places a beast at a disadvantage.
The urgent need in the Aus-
tralian beef industry, both for
stud and commercial herds, is
the fixing of a definite standard
of excellence, based on sound
economic principles.
Gabo Takes Rust.
“He-Ne”; In the N.S.W.
north-west, Gabo, claimed as a
“rust-resistant” wheat, has taken
stem rust this season. This fol-
lows the pattern all too common
in Australia. Plant-breeders,
after much work, evolve a
variety that should prove rust-
resistant, only to find after a few
seasons that it becomes suscep-
tible like all the others in the
past. In the plant world (as in
the animal) there are no two
plants alike, and rust fungus is
constantly changing. The chang-
ing factors are environmental or
in reproduction, and the re-
sultant “black sheep” attacks the
wheat and sets up a new problem
for the plant-breeder.
A wheat variety may be re-
sistant to an old rust fungus but
not to a new one. Breeders,
therefore, aim to produce a
wheat with a mature plant re-
sistance. This means that the
plant when it reaches maturity
is woody and tough and contains
much fibre, which acts as a pro-
tective armor against the rust,
and will not allow penetration.
The variety Celebration (bred
by N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture) is the only one of the
five new “rustless” wheats with
mature plant resistance, and
should be the main parent used
for future varieties.
Frost and Wheat.
“T.T.T.”: Frost frequently
causes losses of 25 p.c. to 50 p.c.
in wheat crops. F. C. Butler,
plant pathologist of N.S.W. De-
partment of Agriculture, esti-
mated that losses rose to 60 p.c.
in parts of N.S.W. northern and
central-western wheat-belts in
1945-46.
Most conspicuous symptoms
of frosting occur on the heads,
which may be affected even
though still enclosed in the boot.
More damage is caused, how-
ever, by unseasonably severe
frosts in spring, which blast the
pollen before fertilisation occurs,
and so lead to a complete or
partial failure of the head to set
grain. The blighting of the head
is commonly referred to as
“white heads,” but should not
be confused with a somewhat
similar condition, also called
“white heads,” which is caused
by take-all.
In some cases frosted heads,
apart from a partial failure to
set grain, appear almost normal.
Tip-blighting of the head is the
most common, and is often con-
fused with a similar condition
which may be caused by hot,
drying winds.
Butler claims that, despite a
very general impression to the
contrary, frost injury may occur
to grain in the ear, causing a
shrivelling and cracking, while
ever there is an appreciable
amount of moisture present.
In the absence of frost-
resistant varieties, complete
control cannot be achieved.
However, losses can be mini-
mised by sowing varieties at the
correct time of year on a firm,
well-compacted seed-bed. Rank
and forward crops should be fed
off, and care taken to avoid the
sowing of frost - susceptible
varieties such as Charter, Ford,
Pusa 4, Kendee and Gabo in
frost-liable situations such as
low-lying areas, when the sow-
ing could have been made on
higher ground.
Good Dairying.
“K.T.”: Make your motto
“Keep nothing but the best,” and
stick to it. Pick the breed which
does well in your district. It’s
better to have a small herd of
really good producers than twice
the number of moderates.
Good dairy stock is hard to
get at present. With dairymen
rearing fewer heifers than
formerly on account of milk
zoning, plus heavy flood losses
in N.S.W., the position is grim.
Wise farmers will rear some
spare heifers as a precaution.
There frequently are com-
plete herd sales where good
cows are on offer. The
careful and enthusiastic buyer
will choose only those which give
indication of heavy production.
Never buy moderates.
A high-quality herd is much
more essential on a small dairy-
farm than on a large one. One
man has made over £5O a month
from eight really good cows, and
over £7O from 12 for milk alone,
which proves that excellent re-
turns can be got from good man-
agement.
Litter Mortality.
“Rooster”; Some breeds seem
to suffer more than others.
There are no actual figures
available for Australia, but in
N.Z. it appears that Large
White and Berkshire head the
list for the highest average of
pigs successfully reared per
litter. The L.W. averages
8.6, the Berkshire 7.5. By com-
parison the Tamworth averages
7.1 and the Large Black 7. On
these figures the Large White is
easily the most prolific breeder.
With the development of ex-
port trade in view, increased in-
terest is being shown in this
breed. Its best asset, from the
bacon-curer’s point of view, is
its great length of side. Crossed
with Berks or Tammies they
produce pigs of ideal bacon
type, uniform in color and con-
formation.
Fodder-conservation.
“Roos”: Sponsored by the Vic.
R.A.S., associ'ated organisations
of Central and South Gippsland
got together in a competition, with
some interesting results. Thirteen


You can still
"SAIL THE SEVEN SEAS*’
AS AN OFFICER
of the R.A.N.
The spirit that called Drake and Nelson to high adventure
and enduring fame is still calling enthusiastic young men
with the sea in their blood —and offering them, in the Royal
Australian Navy, an outstanding career. As an officer in the
R.A.N., you will serve in both hemispheres; you will become
a specialist in a modern navy that is growing in strength and
Hresponsibility; you will
have opportunities of
high promotion — and
you will achieve sub-
stantial material re-
wards in the shape of
excellent rates of pay.
w
,
mm
mm
m
mm
II
-■mm.
mi
M&mis
For full information about a career
with the R.A.N., fill in and send the
coupon at the foot of this advertisement.
APPLICATIONS—CADET-MIDSHIPMEN (SPECIAL ENTRY)
Applications are invited for Entry as Cadet Midshipmen
(Special Entry) into the Executive, Engineering and Elec-
trical Branches of the Royal Australian Navy from youths
who become 18 years of age between ist July, 1949, and
31st December, 1950 (both dates inclusive).
The number of entrants selected will depend on the requirements of the
service.
Candidates must be of pure European descent and the sons of British subjects
by birth or naturalization.
Candidates must have passed Matriculation Standard examinations in
Mathematics, Physics, and English (or be sitting for these subjects this
year). They must also have obtained satisfactory passes in two other
subjects (not necessarily at Matriculation standard) or be sitting for two
such subjects this year. Technical school students who have passed examin-
ations of equivalent standard in Mathematics, Physics and English, or will
be sitting for such examinations this year, are eligible to apply.
Candidates will appear before a Selection Committee in December, 1949,
and must be found physically fit by the Naval Medical Officer, whose
decision will be final. (Candidates should satisfy themselves beforehand
of their physical fitness).
Successful candidates will enter the Royal Australian Naval College in
January, 1950.
APPLICATIONS — CADET-MIDSHIPMEN J (S)
Applications are also invited for entry as Cadet-Midship-
men (S) for the Supply and Secretariat Branch of the
Royal Australian Navy from youths who become 18 years
of age between ist July, 1949, and 31st December, 1950
(both dates inclusive).
Conditions apply as for Cadet-Midshipmen (Special Entry) EXCEPT that
the educational qualifications are that candidates must have passed Leaving
Certificate or Senior Public examinations, or be sitting for one of these
examinations this year.
APPLICATIONS FOR BOTH CLASSES OF ENTRY SHOULD
REACH THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY,
NAVY OFFICE, MELBOURNE, SC.1., NOT LATER THAN
15th NOVEMBER,
Royal Australian
NAVY
For detailed particulars, and
application forms, mail this coupon to :
THE NAVAL RECRUITING OFFICER IN YOUR STATE
Please send me full particulars regarding entries as
CADET-MIDSHIPMEN (SPECIAL ENTRY)
CADET-MIDSHIPMEN (S)
1949
m
NAME (block letters).
ADDRESS
R.A.N.V 1.122.89
VAK RABBIT FUMIGANT
No Plant
CRYSTALS
No Fumes Costs 1 Penny per Hole
Please despatch
21b. tins at 9/- each
81b. tins at 32/- each ....
Case 12 x 2 lb. 1037-
Case 12 x 8 lb. 370/-
I
( F. 0. 8. Sydney )
Please add exchange.
I
(Post free )
No C.O.D.
NAME 19/10/’49 I
(Peikt)
ADDRESS STATE j
FLAK INDUSTRIES, 23 Addison Road, Marrickville, N.S.W. !
m
w
\
AMLI
w*> L
• Behind every bale of your
wool lie years of courageous
planning and effort.
- A.M.L.&F. realise this. That’s
why they give your hard-
earned wool the same
personal care and supervision
as you would yourself, and
that’s why you can be sure of
the best possible price' when
you send your clip to
A.M.L.&F.
86 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND, 1863.
AUSTRALIAN. MERCANTILE. LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 HUGH STREET. SYDNEY
AND AT MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches— N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra, Scone,
Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville, Charleville, St.
George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents: McPhie & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
7&/lf£tV
ELASTRATOR
FULL SUPPLY
We regret that production difficulties of a completely
new type of ring, and tremendous demand, have re-
sulted in so much inconvenience to graziers through
shortages. These difficulties have now been overcome,
and we expect to maintain ample supplies. Make
certain of your position by buying now—the new white
ELASTRATOR rings, stored according to directions,
will not deteriorate.
ANTISEPTIC
-.•a
...
:<>> V •' *?,<: ■ <
mm:
mm
are now in
Full supplies now available from stock and station agents,
chemists and general stores.
25/- (plus postage) per box of 500
ELASTRATOR
(REGD. TRADE MARK)
ANTISEPTIC
RINGS
A PRODUCT OF ELASTRATOR (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
266 Flinders St., Melbourne, C.l.
NVII7.
of the 39 entries included
oaten hay, six tried conserved
silage, the remainder competed
with meadow hay.
Unfortunately, showery
weather —mostly during the cur-
ing process —was responsible for
poor quality in the meadow-hay
exhibits. It was pointed out
that these losses during harvest-
ing can be guarded against by
having relatively small areas of
hay on the ground at any one
time. The judge further advised
that, in the event of there being
undue delay in pressing, the hay
should, in the meantime, be
placed in large cocks or stacked.
Gippsland weather can be very
changeable. Leaving curing and
pressing to its vagaries can be
ruinous.
The preservation of stack
silage was a weak point with
most entries. Many failed to
repair damaged tarpaulins; in
consequence moisture penetrated
into the stacks, setting up areas
of “wet rot” and mildew.
Absence of dunnage for the
foundations was also noted, this
contributing to damage from
soil moisture. More points were
lost by indifferent stacking. The
practice of forking silage into
conglomerate heaps, instead of
neatly overlapping in even
layers, results in bulging and
partial collapse.
Current shortage of building
material and labor has made it
difficult for many farmers to
erect sheds for baled hay. Some
original improvisations came to
light. R, C. Thompson and
Sons, Waratah North, used
panels of sheet-iron, wired to-
gether in the form of a gable
roof. Measuring about Bft. by
4ft., they consisted of wooden
frames, which carried sheets of
corrugated-iron fashioned from
kerosene-tins. Another com-
petitor further improved on this
by replacing the bales in the
gable of the stack with loose
hay.
Overhead silos are expensive.
Stack silage from perennial-rye
grass, cocksfoot and clovers give
equally good results. Rotting on
the outside of the stack is negli-
gible if silage is used the same
year. Pits or trenches, located
on well-drained sites, can hold
silage for several years without
much loss.
Tomato-wilt.
“Cloudy”: Tomato-wilt is of
Australian origin, and has since
spread to other parts of the
world. For 30 years scientists
have been trying to combat it.
Success has been attained at the
Waite Institute (S.A.) from an
Argentine seed imported through
California. The fruit had no
commercial value, but has now
been crossed with local plants so
that the quality has improved
and the wilt-resisting properties
retained. The strain is estab-
lished, but will take from three
to five years to reach the home-
gardener.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: Milking-machine
equipment should be thoroughly
inspected at least once a week.
Faults and cracks developing in
rubber arms and cups may cause
loss of vacuum. The engine
needs special care; watch for
dirt collecting in the magneto ;
clean out waste oil and renew
the supply; examine the belts
for slackness. Dangerous vibra-
tions can be set up by a weak
engine-bed. Bolts may work
loose. Guard against wear and
tear by keeping the engine run-
ning as smoothly as possible.
“Cloudy”: Some claim saw-
dust makes an excellent mulch,
others say it is harmful because
it brings moulds and bacteria
into the soil. Avoid using it
fresh and in large quantities.
Expose it to the weather before
digging it in to loosen the soil
or placing it around plants for
mulch. Best results would come
from adding light layers to the
compost-heap. An inch or two
of iin. gravel makes a good
surface mulch for shrubs.
“C.A.A.”: Although apples,
pears and potatoes (cooked) are
useful pig foods they should not
exceed 50 p.c, of the total feed
for grown pigs and 30 p.c. for
weaners; 41b. is equivalent to
lib. of grain in feeding value,
and should be fed on that basis.
“Big Billy” ; Clean cultivation
and removal of rubbish will re-
duce the slaters which trouble
small seedlings kept in boxes and
under glass. Dust with D.D.T.;
sliced potatoes dipped in
arsenate of lead are effective
bait. Another bait, also deadly
to cutworms, grasshoppers and
caterpillars, can be made by
mixing lilb. o£ bran with loz.
of Paris green, a quarter-pint
of treacle (dissolved in water)
and pints of water. Broad-
cast in the evening,
“Farback”; The native myrtle
or boobealla is a splendid ever-
green hedge and keeps out the
dust. It grows well in low-rain-
fall areas, but blowflies love the
blossom and come for it like
swarms of bees. It is always
hard to judge whether the flics
would be present if the hedge
were not, or if the blossom
attracts them from a distance, but
afl. homes I know where the
myrtle is grown have a bountiful
supply of blowflies. If fly-traps
are successful the myrtle hedge
is the place for them.


until summer’s nearly
throngh,and swelter day
and night-
B.L SIMWOOI
No House, No Home, No Office—or building is
modem and entirely healthy unless it is
insulated—preferably with 8.1. SLAGWOOL,
81-Cl 2
o
8.1
SLA
s|p> # ,
Snsulmum
TELEPHONES; SYDNEY M 3038 • MELBOURNE MO 350«
BRISBANE B 3604 • ADELAIDE C 7257 • PERTH LiitOT
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS & OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYP*
OPERATORS
STEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVER*
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURER*
CARTON MANUFACTURER*
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS, BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS ! : PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
OSUIJUV/VV
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Telegrams and Cables
"JACKSUL,” BRISBANE
STOP.
Rupture
vow
Worries'
Mark® location
ofYOUPf RUPTURE
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and H Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
BATHING A BULLDOG
By “Col M.”
OUR local Drama Group
meets once a month at the
Arts Hall. We go along and re-
hearse our Christmas play, and
later criticise one another’s per-
formance over sandwiches and
some tea which Mr. Doherty, the
team’s director, is inclined to
refer to as “well urned,”
Last meeting he sprang a
surprise on us. “On the stage,”
he said, “one never knows when
he may forget his lines, when
perhaps the prompter has lost
her place. Such a situation can
well be disastrous unless the
player can ad lib. In a moment
one of you must get up and give
an impromptu speech on the first
thing that comes into your mind.
It is sound training. Right—
you.” And he pointed to me.
I have here a copy of what I
said, taken down and typed up
so kindly by Miss Miles, who
can do 80 words a minute and
who will be Ophelia at
Christmas:
“I would like to tell you how
to bath a bulldog; let us assume
that you have plenty of water,
warm, a good brand of soap and
dog. Lather him well, leave his
ears until last —won’t shake him-
self over you then—rinse . . .
[lnterjection by Mr. Doherty :
"Too quickly. Take your time.
Reflect as you are speaking. Re-
member Olivier!”]
. . . Yes? Well, I suppose
before you can bath a bulldog
you must acquire one, and
believe me, there is usually a
definite series of events leading
up to such acquisition. To
explain what I mean I must
mention that I have a friend who
is a police-sergeant. He was
handed some notes by a Con-
stable Cummins who, on the
night of July 16, had words with
a bulldog-fancier, and who has
been deaf in one ear ever since.
The notes went roughly like
this;
“I rang the door-bell of Flat A, 165
Point-road, and a man appeared in
his dressing-gown with some books
in his hands. I asked him if he was
the party who had made the com-
plaint. He said that he was not,
that he had just moved in, and was
still unpacking and too busy to com-
plain about anything.
“At this stage a woman’s voice
came down from Flat B. She said:
‘lf that’s the police, I rang. There’s
a tramp asleep in the yard. Drunk —
snoring—swearing! ’
“The man in Flat A accompanied
me, and on going into the yard we
found there a bulldog. It belonged
to the man. It was not drunk.
“The constable’s notes lapsed
here, a symbol vaguely like the
Pitman for ‘glass of ale’ occur-
ring once or twice in the para-
graph. However, as he arrived
back at the station at 2 a.m.
looking dazed, with registration-
papers, pedigree, diet-charts and
plans for a dog-kennel in one
hand and a sleeping bulldog pup
clasped in the other, he had evi-
dently, as we in the Hade put it,
‘taken the collar.’
“Now some of you people
may not wish to know how to
bath a bulldog, let alone own
one, so I will digress for a
moment and tell you how to
spot one of these fanciers, how
he operates, and how to stop
him. But please —well, if it gets
any further I could be deregis-
tered.
“The fancier may begin by
admitting that as a watchdog the
bulldog is probably one of the
worst, being a particularly
heavy sleeper and barking rarely.
However, you learn that the
laurels on which the dog rests
are such that burglars rarely
risk it, and that for extra
security you could keep a
Pomeranian to wake up the
bulldog.
“You learn that just as the
groper is able to cling to the
bottom of the sea, the bulldog
manages to hold on to polished
surfaces such as linoleum when
one wishes to take him out to
his kennel at night. The man
will tell you that it is quite
natural for the breed to pant like
a steam-engine after walking half
a block, and that Boy Scouts
should refrain from using their
subtle psychology in an appeal
for the dog to be given a drink.
You learn, too, that although the
dog walks with a slow, amiable
roll he is capable of bursts of
high speed and of turning on
threepence.
“If he is running true to form
the fancier may now break into
the history of his subject, and,
skipping the bulk of this, I give
you only his usual concluding
remarks.
“He assures you that when
Justice stamped on bull-baiting
in England in 1850, the dog
ceased frequenting taverns with
a mob of toughs and passed into
the hands of high society, and
that these new breeders gave him
the proportions of a chubby
Ayrshire bull, and took away his
early viciousness and left him
jovial.
“Having come this far, you’re
gone a million. The fancier will
look you straight in the eye and
ask you frankly why you don’t
get a bulldog—he knows a man
up the street who has a pup for
sale.
“So much for the recognition
of the fancier; now to evade
him. He is by nature a powerful
speaker, but easy to stop if you
get in early. At the first pressure
of his screws, suggest humor-
ously that he no doubt calls his
dog ‘Winston.’
“A remarkable change will
come over him. The zealot’s
light goes out of his eyes. His
inspired oratory collapses in
shambles. And as he hands you
your hat he will tell you that
Churchill has been making alto-
gether too much capital out of
his fortunate face, that it should
be a case for the copyright
courts, and that his ears and
wrinkles are all wrong for show-
ing, anyway . . .
[lnterjection by Mr. Doherty :
“But what about bathing him —
your time is nearly up.”]
“ . . .Eh? Oh, yes. Quite
simple—plenty of water, good
brand of soap. Leave his
ears”
[/ have run out of note-
paper. —Miss Miles. 1
As I left the hall that night
our director touched my elbow.
“Look here, old man,” he said.
“As the ghost of Hamlet’s father
you have a rather important
part to play at Christmas.
Please friend, try to learn your
lines word-perfect. But if for
some reason on that night you
should happen to forget, don’t
worry about it. Just wait, how-
ever long it takes, until we
prompt you. Eh?”
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Man and wife, Sydney, with child,
would like fortnight as paying guests
on sheep-station at Christmas. —4701.
Writer engaged in a work on
Richard Burton, the explorer, would
be grateful to hear from anyone who
may have letters, manuscripts, etc. —
4707.
Words of verse beginning;
‘Neath blazing skies, beyond the farthest
hut,
Beyond the gibber desert’s stony glare.
—4703.
To buy Industrial History of
Broken Hill by Dale, “Barrier Miner’’
Business Directory for 1891 and
1892, My Life and Adventures by
A. G. Hales and The Broken Hill
Mines by Wilson. —4702.
Library would like to hear from
persons who have complete volumes
of The Bulletin for sale. State
dates. —4706.
Certified metalliferous-mine mana-
ger, with wide Australian and inter-
national experience in mining, civil
and mechanical engineering,
position Australia or abroad.—47os."
To exchange Maxence van der
Meersch’s Corps et Ames, 2 vols.,
for L’empreinte du Dieu and one
other of his. —4704.
Information Sought.
Lengths of the twelve longest rivers
in N. S. Wales?
Darling, 1702 miles (1626 miles
within N.S.W.); Murray, 1609 (1203
miles within N.S.W.); Murrumbidgee,
981; Lachlan, 922; Macquarie, 590;
Namoi, 526; Bogan, 451; Gwydir,
415; Castlereagh, 341; Hawkesbury
(and main tributary), 293; Hunter,
287; and Clarence, 245.
* * * *
What persons are eligible for elec-
tion to the N.S.W. Legislative
Assembly, and in what cases do their
seats become vacant?
Any person who is qualified to vote
at any State election is eligible to be
elected to the Legislative Assembly,
except persons who are members of
the Federal Legislature or of the
Legislative Council, or who hold non-
political offices of profit under the
Crown other than in the Army or
Navy; but any officer of the Public
Service of N.S.W. may be elected to
the Legislative Assembly on condition
that he forthwith resign his position
in the service. The seats of mem-
bers are rendered vacant by death,
resignation, absence without leave,
acceptance of foreign allegiance,
bankruptcy, acceptance of public
contracts, or by criminal conviction.
* * * *
A few details about Pitcairn
island ?
Situated in the Pacific Ocean,
nearly equidistant from Australia and
America, it is two square miles in
area. Discovered by Carteret in 1767,
it remained uninhabited until 1790,
when it was occupied by the mutineers
of H.M.S. Bounty and some women
from Tahiti. Nothing was known
of their existence until the island was
visited in 1808. No regular govern-
ment was established, but assistance
of various kinds was given on the
subsequent visits of English vessels.
In 1856, the population having be-
come too large for the island’s re-
sources, the inhabitants were, at their
own request, removed, with all their
possessions, to Norfolk Island, but 40
of them soon returned. The popula-
tion is now about 120, and it is a
British colony by settlement under
the jurisdiction of the High Com-
missioner for the Western Pacific.
The island exports small quantities
of oranges and pineapples.
♦ * * *
Some particulars about the man
who invented the diesel engine?
He was Rudolf Diesel, a German
engineer who was born in Paris in
1858. After attending the Munich
Polytechnic School he spent a short
time in Paris as manager of, a com-
pany which manufactured refrigerat-
ing equipment. Returning to Munich,
he published, in 1893, The Theory
and Construction of a Rational Heat
Motor, the result of his studies on
what was to become the diesel oil-
engine. In the same year work began
at the Krupp v and Augsburg machine
factories on the construction of the
engine, which was publicly displayed
for the first time at Munich in 1898.
The next year Diesel founded a fac-
tory for the construction of the
engines, and spent the greater part of
his life perfecting the machine, al-
though he did not live to see its
possibilities fully exploited. He was
drowned in 1913.
♦ * * *
How many times did Ron Richards
and Ambrose Palmer fight each other,
and the results of their contests?
They fought each other four times.
Palmer outpointed Richards (12
rounds) first time they met, at Syd-
ney Stadium, late in 1932. Palmer
then stopped Richards in round 8
at Brisbane Stadium on August 9,
1933. Richards was again outpointed
by Palmer (15 rounds) at Leichhardt
in 1935, and Palmer knocked-out
Richards (round 13) at Sydney Sports
Ground on April 12, 1938.
♦ * * *
Who was Casey Jones of the song
of that name?
John Luther Jones, an American
locomotive engine-driver who worked
on the Illinois Central’s famous
“Cannonball.” Jones, noted for his
skill, daring and resourcefulness, died
in a train wreck in 1900, and was
found with one hand still on the
whistle and the other on the airbrake
lever. Wallace Saunders, his negro
engine-wiper and close friend, created
the ballad which has made Jones an
almost legendary figure. The nick-
name Casey was derived from the
town of Cayce, Kentucky, near
which Jones was born.
* * * *
Some details about the author of
“A Message to Garcia’'’ ?
It was written by Elbert Hubbard
(1859-1915), a successful, American
businessman who retired at the age
of 35 to seek culture. He established
the Roycroft Press in imitation of the
Kelmscott Press of William Morris,
although not as a communal venture,
and himself wrote the majority of
the material published there. This
included two pseudo-artistic maga-
zines, “Philistine” and “The Fra,”
and a series of 170 Little Journeys
to the homes of famous men. Hub-
bard is best known for A Message
to Garcia (1899), an exhortation to
fidelity and enterprise which became
enormously popular among business-
men, who distributed copies of it
among their employees as “inspira-
tion.” He died when the Lusitania
was sunk by a German submarine
during World War I.
Brief Answers.
E.C.: Should you transfer the
block of ground to your son, value
of such will have to be taken into
consideration in further assessing
your pension. You should imme-
diately inform the Department of
Social Services of your intention.
J.H.B.: Write L. C. Frober,
general secretary, Institute of
Automotive and Aeronautical En-
gineers, 55 Collins-place, Melbourne.
G.T.McL: (1) “Irish Times” or
“Irish Independent.” (2) There are
several on the market. Write Angus
and Robertson, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney E.McG.: Write
Commonwealth Public Service Board,
119 Phillip-street, Sydney J.H.W.:
Write Graziers’ Co-operative Shear-
ing Co., 46 Young-street, Sydney....
M. (l) A member is entitled to
receive Service pension and retain a
banking account. (2) An exemption
of £lOO is allowed in respect of any
assets held. For each £lO over £lOO
a deduction of 9d. per fortnight is
made from any pension payable. (3)
As Service pension is a social benefit
it is subject to the means test, and
it would be necessary for the appli-
cant to submit his bank passbook
for perusal K.P.S.: By the Common
Law of England, which is applicable in
N. the owner of a dog is not
liable for its trespass, irrespective of
its breed or purpose on the land,
unless it has actually been sent there
by its owner in pursuit of game.
This is the Common Law, and will
not be found in any statute
M.McK. (Quirindi): Please forward
full address H.M.S.: Result of
the 1939 Melbourne Cup was: Ist,
Rivette; 2nd, Maikai; 3rd, Pantler
J. 0.8.: Too numerous to set out in
full, but mainly witnessing documents
and dealing with minor matters in
Justices’ courts. No qualifications
necessary other than nomination by a
Member of Parliament R.M.C.:
Write Ramsey Photo Works, 53
George-street, Sydney G.E.S.:
Wild pigs are very difficult to poison.
Unable to advise you of a more
efficient poison that you have been
using, other than suggesting increas-
ing considerably the amount of
strychnine in the baits... .W.J.C.:
Write Principal Librarian, Public
Library of Queensland, Brisbane
M. 8.: Write Kraft Walker Cheese
Co., 108 Queen-street, Melbourne.


FONDE EN 1724
rEmy martin
V.S.O.P. COGNAC BRANDY
Of rare age and vintage quality seldom
before, if ever, imported into Aus-
tralia. Obtainable at most retailers.
Coal
MILLIONS OF YEARS TO PRODUCE...
Burned
in a Second
. . . How import-
ant it is, therefore,
to burn coal
properly and eco-
nomically, how-
ever great or small
the daily con-
sumption. With
world - wide ex-
perience, and a
knowledge of
Australian coals
that extends back
over 60 years,
Babcock specialise
in the design and
manufacture of
the most efficient
steam - raising
plant for all pur-
poses
am I q
x
Longitudinal* section
of , a 8, & W. High.
Head boiler unit
arranged lor pul-
verised cool firing.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE & WORKS - - REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States
A TRUE STORV
I
Farm machinery firm
solves labour problem
A new firm established in
1948 for repair and assembly
of farm machinery and
earth-moving equipment em-
ployed only four hands, but
planned to expand to a total
of thirty. Three or four
hands engaged through ad-
vertisements having proved
unsatisfactory, the labour
problem was causing anxiety
when the firm was visited by
a field officer of the Com-
monwealth Employment Ser-
vice, and the management
agreed to place any future
requisitions for labour in the
hands of the Service.
The firm’s requests for
labour over the next few
months were met in almost
all instances, including a
junior driver, fitter, junior
process worker, junior as-
sembler, welder, and two
labourers. Calling in person j
to express appreciation, the !
Manager indicated his inten >
tion to abandon advertising,
and rely on the Common-
wealth Employment Service
for all future labour, even
referring direct enquiries for
positions to the Service for
appraisal.
The Service has kept pace
with this firm’s expansion
programme, which now in-
cludes accommodation for an
additional twenty hands.
Goodwill thus created has
facilitated placement of
numbers of applicants for
employment. This true story,
drawn from official records,
is just one example of the
co-operation of experienced
Employment Officers with
employers in every type of
industry, and with applicants
in search of the right job.
This is a free service, avail-
able without charge or obli-
gation, at any Branch or
District Office.
COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
Offices Throughout Australia.
Consult Your Telephone
Directory
CES79.62.99
mm mm ■
mm
i I
A CASE OF TYRE HEART FAILURE
Weak tubes cause tyre
failure and blow outs
Worn, stretched, patched and leaky tubes are
a risk to your safety a source of damage
to your tyres. Don't take risks! A small
outlay on NEW Goodyear Tubes will
protect your tyres,
and your
family. See your
Goodyear
Dealer right
away. Every
new tyre de-
serves a NEW
Goodyear Tube.
GOODJYEAR
HEAVY DUTY TUBES
W
v outW« s
awe
Mm
Every new tyre deserves a new Goodyear Tube
TI-i«9
“Poor old Yostler,” commis-
serated Hank. “And he’s the
best of the bunch, too, though
that ain’t particularly difficult.”
“Fancy,” said Ray. “Yostler’s
cat, eh?”
“Well, now,” said Hank in a
businesslike manner. “If you
came in on this cat we could pay
you so much, and you could
take the rest out in cat and vege-
tables.”
“Vegetables?” said Ray.
“Paw-paw, cooked green. A
little tapioca.” He stared
solemnly at the Australian.
“And,” he added powerfully,
“some towgay.”
“Oh!” said Ray.
“Say five dollars without the
meal, three with it,” Hank sug-
gested.
“You wouldn’t kill Kitty!”
said Ray.
“You are a clown,” said Hank.
“I love some of your jokes.
Now what about the price?”
Ray looked down at Kitty, up
at Hank. “A little thing like
that.” Then he added hastily,
“Plump, of course.”
“Yostler was a good master,”
said Hank.
“Yostler,” said Ray slowly,
and he was decided. “Ten dol-
lars or nothing,” he said firmly.
Hunger gnawed at him, too, as
it had at Hank, as it had at all
the poor pussies with the excep-
tion of Yostler’s pussy. Also
Yostler was very fat, and smoked
cheroots. There were cheroots
in the canteen, though highly-
priced. Still, with ten dollars ...
“Aussie!” said Hank in a
pained voice,
“Listen,” said Ray firmly.
“One cat, ten dollars. No
veges, see? No food. Ten dol-
lars. I' want cheroots.”
“Now, look here,” said Hank.
“Ten dollars,” Ray said. He
began to see now the whole plan,
the wide merriment of the
English colonel. Hank laugh-
ing at him, Kitty carelessly
appearing from the tapioca,
Yostler ignorantly happy in his
own world and soon to lose his
lover, and he, Ray, soon to calm
his edged nerves pn the cool
sweet flow of cheroot smoke. It
WRS all VCfy wonderful.
“Ten dollars then,” Said
tti
Hank, and he stared curiously
at the Australian. “I can’t make
you out, Ray,” he complained,
“Still, when you’re hungry you’U
OO anytning.
“So you will,” agreed Ray.
Anything, h© added, and he
accepted the ten dollars. Never-
i a , , , , ,
theless for a moment he looked
at Kitty, nestling there in a
stranger’s arms, and he felt
a delicious regret steal over
Dim.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany,
MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
K.D.: Good idea in “The Caliph”
story, but you are no Scheherazade.
F.L.: Sorry to have to throw
such promising tiddlers back; why
not try a story instead of an inci-
dent? W.M.: Wives turning out
to be cats is a bit too commonplace.
M.C.: Hellfire in his youth
might have been a hit with the girls,
but not, in his old age, with our
readers... .E.E.8.: Throwing stones
at Chinamen for fun is the sole Aus-
tralian monopoly of the Minister for
Immigration J.H.A.: “Hallucina-
tion” was not one of ours....
G.McM.: Nice goings on! J.S.W.;
“Gentility” rather sad and boring,
as usual M.N.: Lunchbox, by no
means empty, held nothing for us.
—1.J.8.: A customer kissing a
Scotch barber on the nose seems more
likely to be the beginning of the
excitement than the end J.J.A.:
Mother got the bull into the stall,
but you didn’t get him into a story.
... .Bellerive: And we always thought
you wrote in blood:
....H.D.: It was a long time ago,
anyway C.E.: The spotty cat
might curl up on some other hearth.
A.H.: Sent back your “Town
Acquaintance” characters in search
of an author GJ.L,: “Ria’s
Wedding” went like a wedding, but
not like a story S.G.: If the shop-
keepers believe in Father Christmas,
who are we to disillusion them?....
A.F.L.: “Why,” as your character
Charley said, throwing his cigarette
out of the window, “don’t you write
about real people?” A.R.P.:
Somehow dribbling idiots don’t make
our mouths water V.E.F.: The
main idea of “The Earthly People”
is sound, but you have loaded it up
with ham actors J.R.N.: As we
said before, “dawn-morn” poems
merely make us reach for a gun
E.L.: All that can be said of it is
that it might have been worse
T.D.: Poets are strictly forbidden to
muse on their wasted youth in this
journal A.M.S.: “The Gallant
Bruiser’s” luck was out. In a fight
with the sub-editor he was floored in
the first round C.H.: You have a
weird imagination and a weirder
notion of spelling E.H.M.; Try a
paper for children—very small chil-
dren... .P.J.W.: Story of how Bob
the Boozer robbed his small son of
his money-box was unhesitatingly
basketed... .R. 8.: If you could get it
into a quarter of the space it might go.
P.B.: Can’t quite fathom the
trouble that drove you to write
“Remorse,” but we were moved to
print one verse because of its strange,
wild melancholy:
Oh cursed be I that I proved so false.
A double curse upon me fall,
Surround me by the highest wall
And let the devils jeer at me as they
waltz.
N.B.: Hopeless. One of the
trials of our life is the writer who
sends us poetry that was born to
blossom among the butchers’ advts.
in a suburban sheet C.K.: Metre
is so jagged that it cut the envelope
in three places and wore a hole
through the postage-stamp P.P.:
The basket always gapes for that
sort of stuff T.V.W.: Yes, we
accept contributions, but we have a
prejudice against those that are lifted
from other papers... .S.S.: “Daugh-
ters of Australia” is the type of verse
that can only be described as well-
meaning but awful... .C.D.A.: Tale
of how Ken and Ron played tennis
at a local court for the heart of
Joan, the banker’s daughter, is out
of our line M.P.: “A Burglar’s
Regret” merits ten years’ hard labor.
K.N.: Terrible as it is, it had
a strange and morbid fascination
for us: —
Just think how on earth we will stand,
Dinkum Aussiesl
If America loses the upper hand,
Dinkum Aussiesl
Why, we will be all on our own,
And we’ll lose our bright happy land
To some terrible coves across the foam,
Dinkum Aussiesl
R.C.C.: Your poem might be a
masterpiece if any editor could read
it, but no editor could G.K.: It
is more like a geography-lesson than
poetry J. 8.; Another instance of
good patriotic sentiment welded to
evil poetical habits A.H.W.: Four
rejected without hesitation. If a dead
silence is preserved about the fifth
you will know it has gone the way
of its mates C.M.C.: The fact
that the “breeze sighs soft” and that
you are “sad and alone” has been
recorded in the office archives....
W.G.L.: We laid it gently to rest
in the basket A.E.: There are so
many tales about the swagman who
dies of thirst, with the crow on the
dead tree watching him, that we feel
it would be a novelty to have a yarn
in which the swagman and the crow
changed places R.L,: Merely a
bald narrative of how a man got
drunk in a city pub and lost his
false teeth.... 0.W.: We have never
known a story, apparently in good
health, to drop dead so suddenly.
RHYME OF A JAM TIN.
Outside our backyard
I found a jam tin,
Which gave me an idea
And I brought it in.
I soaked it well in
The washhouse sink
To use now and then
T.o strain my ink.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4*d. per line; all others 2ld. per line.
Subdivide?
The opinion, voiced by a Queensland
M.L.A. for Barcoo, that western land-
holders should have bigger areas (B.
27 /9 / ’49) is substantially-the same as that
of the well-known prospector Fred Blake-
ley in regard to far-western N... 5. Wales.
Blakeley had some hard things to say
about politicians who have been active
in furthering subdivision of holdings in
that part of the State. He considers that
two-thirds of a run, in such country,
should be spelled all the while, and that
subdivision prevents ' this, the smaller
owner having to carry too many beasts to
the acre. Therefore:
Today dry seasons are called droughts,
the cry for Government assistance is set
up, and newspapers make a feature of the
drought arid the pitiable plight of the
settlers. No doubt it is true, but no one
shows the other side of the picture. None
of the big runs is in trouble; in tact, they
have fat stock; everything proceeding ac-
cording to 'the law which governs that part
of Australia. They only call a drought a
dry spell. But all the while the cocky
squatters are going broke as fast as the fly
can take possession of their runs. If they
knew the operation of the law of margins,
they would realise that these places are too
small to work, and that they give a living
only when conditions are at their best.
Well, what about the Government? The
Government must know that breaking up
the bigmms was a dismal failure, and the
thing they broke was the poor devil who
listened to them and put his all into the
venture. They must know that it would
be the right thing to revert to the policy
of the big rims, but also that to tell these
same voters that the big runs were the
salvation of the country would be bad
electioneering, and that such a reversion
would riiean a Government defeat. So they
dodge the issue, and every two or three
years another batch of cocky squatters is
finished off. Nor does my observation
show that at the best of times a quarter of
the people get a living off these lands who
used to do so in the big-run days. Ulti-
mately we must go back to the big runs.
Others well qualified to pass judgment
have taken much the same line regarding
closer-settlement for grazing purposes in
country similar to that which Blakeley
wrote about. Dr. Madigan, Sydney
Upton, Thomas Ratcliffe, T. P. Bell-
chambers, are cases in point. Yet
the N. S. Wales Minister for Lands
is at present engaged in a project
for forcing landholders in the far
west of N. S. Wales to surrender lease-
holds with some years still to run, so they
can be cut up for soldier-settlement. —
Tom (N.S.W.).
Socialism and Law
It is becoming increasingly plain that
only a return to the conception of the
Rule of Law can save our democracy.
Whole books have been written to define
this concept, but a fairly close definition
would be that the law should apply
equally, without fear or favor, to all;
that what goes for the humblest citizen
goes also for the Prime Minister. That
ideal has never been fully realised- any-
where, but we were well on the way to it
when the rise of Socialism turned us in
a different direction.
Socialist doctrine, or at any rate
Socialist practice, opposes the Rule of
Law at several important points. jit
holds that laws are made, not by public
debate in Parliament, but by Government
in secret session. Parliament becoming
merely a rubber-stamp or even disappear-
ing altogether. Also, it holds that a
Government is itself above the law it
makes for others, or that, at least, validat-
ing laws can always be passed at short
notice to legalise any dubious administra-
tive act.
That explains why the Australian Con-
stitution is such a stumbling-block to
Socialists; the situation arises from time
to time when the validating act is itself
unconstitutional.
But from the idea that it is above the
law, a Socialist Government passes on to
two more dangerous assumptions; that
its actions are above criticism, and that
the private affairs of its members are also
beyond the law. When public and Press
insist on criticising, the Government
resorts to secrecy, and then airily brushes
aside criticism as ill-informed. We have
seen plenty of examples of these trends
with the present Federal Government.
But in the end the Socialist attitude
leads to complete contempt for the law.
For when each case is decided on its
merits as the Socialists claim, and not
on the impartial basis of existing law.
and when the reasons for all administra-
tive actions are deliberately shrouded in
obscurity, the suspicion soon grows that
some cases are being favored at the ex-
pense of others. The reaction of the
hitherto honest citizen is “If he can get
away with it, why can’t I?” and an
attempt to evade the law, hoping to talk
or bribe his way out if detected. For
nobody will ever convince the average
citizen that this fog of secrecy is any-
thing but a cloak for corruption.
This attitude is helped along by the
form of Socialist legislation. When a new
bill is threshed out in open debate it
usually emerges in a form fairly easy to
understand, but the regulations issued in
floods by anonymous bureaucrats and
merely tabled in Parliament for automatic
approval often seem to be the merest
gibberish. So the abovementioned citizen
adds “Why try to obey the law when I
can’t find out what it is?”
Though our present rulers don’t'seem
to realise it, most people prefer law to
lawlessness. If they understand and
approve the law they will obey it them-
selves and support those who are charged
with enforcing it. In a healthy society
even a bad law, if it is understandable,
will be generally obeyed. But if people
come to believe that a great many laws
“Awfully nice of you, Harold, but why DIDN’T you ask me before?”
are unfair and capricious, or unreason-
ably obscure, or silly and unnecessary, or,
worse still, if they believe that the authori-
ties, either from fear or favor, shrink
from enforcing them against certain law-
breakers, then, law, morality and the
authority of the Government will alike
decay till we are ready for the Com-
munist insurrection. — Magnoon (Q.).
Workers’-compensation
“R.H.G.’s” assumptions (B. 28/9/’49)
that employers are penalised and that
“millions” could be saved by “a sliding-
scale to cover various degrees of lia-
bility” are obviously made from inade-
quate knowledge of workers’-compensa-
tion insurance.
It is a false notion that employers are
“penalised” by insurance charges. Ele-
mentary cost accounting requires that all
charges must be covered by the price of
the goods. Thus ultimately the consumer
pays the insurance premiums, as he does
all other charges in all goods or services
offered for sale. *
The sliding-scale idea is a proposal for
partial self-insurance which, in the in-
terests of injured workers, no Govern-
ment would countenance without freezing
substantial sums which few employers
could afford. N. S. Wales provides such
facility, and it is significant that out of
the hundreds of thousands of employers
in this State only 62 have chosen to be
‘‘self-insurers.”
Rates are determined by the loss ex-
perience in each occupation, and Govern-
ment statistics show premiums are not
excessive. Tasmania is the only State
showing a profit margin substantially
more than 10 per cent, of premiums. Two
States show heavy losses. For 1947-48
costs in Queensland and South Australia
were 126.4 and 108.6 per cent, of pre-
miums respectively. Even in “R.H.G.’s”
own State (W.A.), costs for the same
year aggregated 90 per cent, of the pre-
miums collected. In N. S. Wales, where
premiums have been under Government
control since 1945, the fact that rates,
practically without exception, are the
same as previously ch'arged by private
insurance companies, is eloquent testi-
mony of the accuracy and probity with
which private insurers arrived at their
.rates before 1945.
Workers’-compensation premiums for
Australia in 1947-48 are cited by the
Government Statistician as £8,627,527,
against ; which claims and expenses
amounted to £7,984,304. Of the latter
amount £6,286,724 was paid in. claims.
The same authority gives the W.A. figures
as £696,628 in premiums, from which
£626,759 was paid in claims and expenses.
For security, even for economy, there
is no substitute for the stability of full
insurance.— Claims Clerk (N.S.W.).
Rabbits
While theC.S.I.R.O. is searching unavail-
ingly for a virus to limit or exterminate
the rabbit pest and farmers’ organisations
are continuing to protest at rabbit depre-
dations, the N.Z. system of control by
boards has much to commend it. These
boards, consisting of a majority of
district ratepayers, are financed by strik-
ing a levy on an acreage basis, on
the number of stock carried or on the
rateable value of the land, the amount to
be subsidised by the Government.
The board has permanent employees
who are controlled by a working in-
spector. The system has the following
advantages: the rabbiter has permanent
employment and has no inducement to
“farm” the rabbits (as has the professional
Australian trapper) because all rabbits
are the property of the board, the skins
being sold and proceeds offset against
rates. Rabbit-destruction can be worked
on a definite plan, the men working on a
face across the district. If a district is
reasonably free of rabbits but is likely
to be troubled from a neighboring area,
they can be checked and fought on a
natural barrier such as a river.— Plain
Australian (Vic.).
Dollars and Socialism
Writing from Britain, H. H. Hoggart,
a Nanango (Q.) farmer, stated that dollars
and Socialism are sucking the life-blood
from Britain. In the case of sugar, half
Britain’s imports come from dollar areas
—worth £23,850,000 in dollars last year
—while cotton imports from the U.S.A.
have been costing Britain £18,000,000 a
year. Meat, cheese, dried eggs, con-
densed milk and bacon from Canada
represent 16 per cent, of total require-
ments, and imports of chemicals, drugs
and dyes require a further £9 million.
As Hoggart points out, sugar produc-
tion in Queensland has been compulsorily
limited for years, and the same applies
to wheat, while cotton production has
steadily declined until this year in
Central Queensland it is expected to fall
below 1000 bales, largely because of the
dilatoriness of the Tariff Board in issuing
its report after spending months on an in-
vestigation of the economic ills affecting
the industry and making recommenda-
tions for its recovery.
Hoggart sums up: “The day of reckon-
ing is at hand, , and we have simply got
to supply’ more of Britain’s needs. If
direct costs, such as labor costs, are to
remain, then freight charges, handling
charges, taxation, etc., will have to be
cut to the lowest to keep primary produc-
tion in top gear, for on that depends
whether Britain retains her dignity.”
It would be too much to expect any
material improvement in our efforts to
improve production as long as “Labor”
Governments control our destiny. Such
Governments are notoriously inconsider-
ate of the needs of our farmers. Aus-
tralians will have their last opportunity
on December 10 of putting their country
on the road to a sound economic future.
—Archaps (Q.).
White Australia
“Barwon” (B. 21/9/’49) says “White
immigrants arriving in this country are
subject to a careful screening regarding
character, health, etc.” Perhaps; but at
least one such immigrant made his sixth
appearance in 10 months in Hobart
Police Court for stealing.
Our Chinese community? As an
accountant and income-tax agent I’ve had
many dealings with them, and they are a
very law-abiding, honest and generous
people. It is impossible to help them
without their reciprocating. Their main
fault in Australian eyes seems to be that
they are hard-working, saving and indus-
trious. —E. A. B. (Tas.).
Architects Compete
The whole floor of Melbourne Town
Hall was given over last week to dis-
play results of the £20,000 archi-
tectural competition for a design
for the Western Market building.
Some 70 starters weighed in, and as each
is said to have spent £lOOO and a year’s
work on the project the display could be
called a £70,000 show. However, there
is little of an architectural nature about
it.
Architecture is an art, not a science.
Architecture has little to do with comfort,
convenience, usefulness or the fact that,
in this case, the City Fathers wanted to
make money out of motor-cars and
tenants so that they wouldn’t have to in-
crease rates. That, like a hospital, is a
useful notion, but a work of architecture
hasn’t that kind of use any more than has
a song, a symphony, a dance, a poem or
a picture.
None of the gridiron designs presented
has much aesthetic interest, and the one
by Perrot and associates which won the
first-prize has no more claims to artistry
than any of the others. Its massive form
will be impressive, as is the Russell-street
police-station. Councillors will be able
to go along and look at it and work out
how much it cost and how much it will
bring in. But it won’t be as architecturally
impressive as the old Melbourne jail,
which is being demolished to make room
for the commonplace extensions of the
Technical College.—F. S. (Vic.).
Refugees
In deporting refugees the Australian
Government is adopting a non-British
attitude (B, 22/9/’49). The traditional
policy of England has been to receive the
victims of Continental tyranny; indeed,
the British race has been built up in the
past by admixtures of foreign elements.
Many eminent Britons have been of
alien extraction, so we have little to fear
from miscegenation.
Most new Australians are quickly
anglicised, and if some exhibit anti-social
characteristics, how are we to know that
previous bad environment was not the
cause, or that those characteristics will
not disappear in a new and better en-
vironment?
France is an example of a country
where large numbers of immigrants of
divers origins are completely assimilated
and become ideal Frenchmen. Far from
viewing new arrivals with suspicion, we
should welcome them. Already we have
benefited from their skill and knowledge.
For Australia’s safety it must be popu-
lated, but we cannot hope to accomplish
this with natural means only, or even
with British peoples.—A. D. (S.A.).
Sick Leave
While some employers report an im-
provement in the “will to work” since the
coal strike, the problem of sick pay re-
mains as great as ever. Workers con-
sider that, if they are able to avoid sick-
ness, they are still entitled to their sick
leave each year, and they take it.
The problem arises even in the public
service, where sick leave is cumulative.
As an officer approaches the retiring age
he finds that he is entitled to six or even
12 months’ accumulated sick leave. At
that age very few men are completely
physically fit, so he is usually able to
obtain a doctor’s certificate for several
months’ leave.
One possible solution is to make all
sick leave cumulative, and to offer upon
retirement, or after a specified period of
satisfactory service, cash payment equal
to half of all undrawn sick leave.
Such a scheme would act as an in-
centive to regular attendance —a couple
of hundred pounds in a lump sum is very
useful when a man retires, while the
idea of cumulative sick leave must appeal
to every married man. The employer,
financing such a scheme by annual pay-
ments to a reserve fund, would find,
after the first few years, a continuing
source of finance for staff welfare. —
Mullum (N.S.W.).


TALKIES
"Mr. Perrin and Mr. Traill."
Hugh Walpole cast for a story in the
masters’ common-room of a small
English grammar-school and found “Mr.
Perrin and Mr. Traill.” The film of that
name now showing at the Sydney
Embassy is nearly as good as the book.
It tells of Perrin, a man who, when he
started at the school, possessed a back-
bone and loved his job of teaching. But
20 years later, when Traill arrives, he
finds that while Perrin still has enough
spirit to demand the first use of the
bathroom in the morning and of the
“Times” at night, he is now a man desper-
ately afraid of losing his job, terrified
by the sadistic headmaster, who almost
drives him out of his mind, hating every-
thing about the school, but too old to
start again anywhere else.
The film is a lantern lecture on Perrin’s
character ; Traill merely shows the slides.
He takes a boy from a detention set by
Perrin so that the lad can play in a
school football-match —Perrin interprets
it as a deliberate attempt to ridicule his
authority. Traill does not know that old
Perrin’s life is a mixture of maths, moths
and fruitless love for a young nurse at
the school Traill and the lady become
engaged and Mr. Perrin finally goes mad,
but he lives to die in saving the life of
this man he hates.
Marius Goring, the French sprite
in “Stairway to Heaven,” appears
as Mr. Perrin, and his acting again is
particularly good. However, considering
the comparatively few lines he has, the
most memorable work in the film is
that of the headmaster, Raymond
Huntley.
"Knock on Any Door."
Of all the rods with which that peculiar
complexity vaguely called society belabors
itself from time to time, none is wielded
more often that the “our-slums-breed-
criminals” line. The argument seems to
be that, as society in general is respon-
sible for slums and, therefore, for the
crime that ferments there, it is also re-
sponsible for the murders, robberies and
other crimes perpetrated by anyone who
grows up in a back alley. Following
that, it would seem that any slum-bred
bandit or murderer should go free while
society in general is jailed or hanged—a
delightful possibility which would soon
exterminate the honest and people the
earth with misanthropes.
No doubt similar lines of argument
could be made out on behalf of the
criminals who stem from places other
than slums —for the poor little spoiled
rich boys or for those who rebel
against dull, middle-class existences.
For the time being, however, it seems
as though society will have to go on
protecting itself against its anti-social
elements. Lately, in fact, it appears that
the more lenient humanity becomes to-
wards wrongdoers, the more daring,
vicious and common they become.
Still the argument will go on as long
as society lasts, and dramatists will, no
doubt, continue to make the most of it.
The subject is not a bad one provided
that dramatic values are not thrown away
for the sake of a social lecture and
provided that whatever side of the case
is taken is presented logically enough.
“Knock on Any Door,” a Columbia film
at Sydney State, falls down on those two
points. It’s a well-made and fairly well-
acted story of a youngster called
“Pretty Boy” Romano, who graduates
from petty thieving in back streets
through more ambitious crime to, finally,
the murder of a policeman.
The young man’s lawyer (Humphrey
Bogart), at first believing his client inno-
cent, puts up a strong defence which
includes a detailed reconstruction of the
accused’s life history; then, when a
sweating, savage prosecutor finally forces
the truth from the youngster Bogart
turns on a passionate plea for mercy on
the grounds that the society which bred
him, and not the youth, is responsible
for the crime. The judge, while sym-
pathising with the defence, consigns the
youth to the electric-chair, thinking, no
doubt, that the lawyer himself, a highly
successful man who has battled his
way up from precisely the same environ-
ment as the murderer, is living disproof
of his own submissions —which he is, and,
as such, the main weakness of the whole
film.
American courts being what they are
(according to Hollywood), Bogart’s lawyer
is acceptable enough, and John Derek
looks the part of “Pretty Boy” Romano
and gives it a fairly sensitive interpreta-
tion.
"The Woman in White."
Sydney Greenstreet has a knack of
getting into films that are slow tours
through overhanging caverns of silence ;
it was so in “The Maltese Falcon,” and
it is so again in Wilkie Collins’s “The
Woman in White” —both efforts to put
slowly-mounting suspense on the screen,
both not quite succeeding. Greenstreet
plays Count Fosco, who has driven young
Ann Catherick almost out of her wits in
a mental asylum to ensure a fortune to
the half-cracked valetudinarian, James
Fairlie, played with amusing success by
John Abbott.
Having got Fairlie’s sister Laura
married to the sinister Sir Percival Glyde,
Fosco is about to finish her off in the
same asylum; but he is foiled by Alexis
Smith and Gig Young, who plays a young
drawing-master, after the efforts of the
escaped Ann (“The Woman in White”)
have failed. Eleanor Parker plays both
Laura and Ann, but remains more of
a pleasant American campus girl than
either of them.
The music which helps Mr. Green-
street fill in the sinister silences might
have been more effective in its main
theme were not a magnificent pavane by
the Elizabethan, William Byrd; a piece
of music so wonderful that even to hear
it’ done in piano transcription for two
fingers sends connoisseurs into raptures;
thus the intrusion throughout the film of
these gorgeous sounds blowing out of a
full orchestra tends to take away atten-
tion from the melodrama. The film re-
tains little of Wilkie Collins’s easy
urbanity; and if, as publicity remarks
about it suggested, Collins is to be revived
as one of the earliest detective-story
writers, they would have done better to
have dramatised his novel “The Moon-
stone.”
"Take One False Step."
William Powell is the very respectable
professor in this Universal-International
comedy (Sydney Lyceum), who is sud-
denly and deeply, however innocently, in-
volved in the disappearance and suspected
murder of the blonde wife of a racketeer.
Powell is a delightful actor, and since
his efforts to extricate himself from
the tangle—which, of course, means solv-
ing the crime before the police nab him—
involve a goodly collection of amusing
or pleasing males and females as well as
a large Alsatian dog suspected of hydro-
phobia, there is no shortage of the
smooth, polished comedy in which he
specialises.
James Gleason is an incredible but
amusing policeman, and Felix Bressart
turns in one of his usual happy studies,
this time as a fellow-professor.
"Arctic Manhunt."
There are grounds for suspecting that
this entertaining support at Sydney
Lyceum is based on fact —the simple,
matter-of-fact presentation of the story,
a narrator’s occasional interpolations, and
the modesty of the acting all suggest an
economical presentation of an old police
or insurance-company’s file.
The main character is Mike Jarvis, a
young man just out of jail after a seven-
year stretch for a payroll robbery.
Although he has served his sentence and
satisfied the law in that respect, the in-
surance company is still interested in the
whereabouts of the money and sets two
investigators on his trail. He eludes them
long enough Jo recover the cash and then
goes to join his accomplice, who has been
hiding out at Nome, in Alaska, and points
even further north, such as isolated
Eskimo villages, when the hunt has grown
too hot.
The accomplice dies of diphtheria at
a lonely little village just before Jarvis
arrives. Jarvis, who has lost the money
in a sled accident, is mistaken by the
Eskimos for their new missionary (who
has been drowned on the way to the
village), and, seeing nothing better to do,
takes over the missionary’s work and
performs it as capably and conscientiously
as he can. With the thaw the lost bag
of money turns up and also, by plane, the
two insurance investigators. In his haste
to escape Jarvis stumbles into the break-
ing ice and, on a small raft of it, floats
to his death along with nearly a hpndred
thousand dollars.
Most of the scenes were taken in
Alaska, and the story, by the simplicity
of its telling, succeeds where many more
ambitious productions fail.
"Bonnie Prince Charlie."
In the form of David Niven, The
Young Pretender has turned up at
Sydney Esquire. Possibly some enter-
prising Scot whose New Year haggis has
already begun to rumble on the shelf
may be thinking of humoring the beastie
by taking it along to see this “Bonnie
Prince Charlie” —dinna do’t, mon ; it may
go sour or even bite the hand that tends
it.
As Stuart, David Niven would make
a good Murphy. His acting, for once,
is weak, and the screen-play gives it little
option to be otherwise. Imagine, for in-
stance, that the Redcoats are thumping
on the door, the lady of the house is
tearing up her apron, Donald the Shep-
herd is fairly nibbling through his
walking-stick urging the Prince to jump
through the window, on to his horse and
get. Would the original “Charlie” have
beamed at them as The Young Niven
does and said: “My father used to tell
me . . .” or else make a long and highly
patriotic statement full of McNeil and
heather? Doubtful —it is hardly the
time or the place. And as these mono-
logues seem to come just when the show
is getting interesting, they are so much
cold water.
There are some good moments
in the film; a group of ruddy Scots
faces that had seen a battle in the
day gleaming around a campfire at
night; Margaret Leighton turning in a
fine piece of acting as Flora Macdonald;
the music of a few Scots voices, and
the pipes! If the producers had used
those ingredients with some others that
were worthy of them, they could have
made a classic.
"Too Late For Tears."
Built like a pilsener-bottle, Dan Duryea
is the current Hollywood ideal for the
gangster role. Times change. One can
remember Robinson, Bogart or Cagney
when they would threaten some annoying
lady with “Ar, shuddup or I’ll kick ya
teeth in.” But only threats. Duryea, in
his parts up to now, has gone ahead and
done it without a wasted syllable and
usually admirably., However, in his
latest film, “Too Late For Tears” (Sydney
Mayfair), he bumps into Lizabeth Scott,
a ghoul, and you can see Duryea has lost
his punch. He slaps her down once or
twice, but his mind is not on his work.
When she shoots her husband and on© or
two friends and asks him to buy her
some poison for her sister-in-law, Duryea
becomes noble. He points to the distinc-
tion of being merely crooked like him-
self and being a warped corkscrew like
the lady, referring to her in turn as
“Honey,” “Tiger” and “Ugh.” So she
poisons him, too.
"Top o' the Morning."
“What’s that you say? The Blarney
Stone’s been pinched. A calamity! And
you are in charge of investigations, Ser-
geant McNaughton? Well, a great day
it is. The country will ring with your
name.” , That seems sound enough Irish
logic, and with Barry Fitzgerald as the
village police-sergeant, “Top o’ the
Morning” (Sydney Prince Edward) seems
to be getting off to something good. But
it is saddening to see that Fitzgerald has
come down so far in the detective field
since his job in “The Naked City.” Bing
Crosby, who enters “Top o’ the Morning”
as an insurance man, is fairly right when
he claims that Fitz couldn’t find the
knot in a pretzel if you supplied him
with a blueprint. The film is a fantasy,
light and fluffy like fairy-floss, and will
melt in your mouth, leaving nothing.
From the play “The Paragon” Associ-
ated British Films have made an excel-
lent film in “Silent Dust.” It tells of
the extraordinary sharpness that can
develop in a man’s other senses when he
loses his sight; of a blind man doting
on the memory of a son killed in
action; of the son returning alive,
a deserter, and a thoroughly bad piece
of work ; of people attempting to keep
this from the father while he deduces
the truth from a train of little incidents
which, with sight, he would no doubt
miss. Stephen Murray plays the father,
and the late Sir Seymour Hicks manages
to tie up the tragedy neatly at its end.
* * * *
“Ma and Pa Kettle” (Sydney Victory)
are on show in another film that has
all the deadly threat of another Holly-
wood “series.” The characters were good
in “The Egg and I,” but not that good.
* * * *
“Elizabeth of Ladymead” is a British
film which takes in major wars since
Crimea, and tells four short-stories about
one soldier from each and his home-
coming. In every case Anna Neagle is
waiting for him.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 39
Across.
I—Soaps1—Soaps discourage polite little
blokes. (10)
6—lt is unnecessary to advise one of
your recent female ancestors to
apply the principles of suction
to them. (4)
9—European stream from a bore.
(4)
11 — These are mean hail-storms. (8)
12 — Ancient vessel of riches is so
gray when disturbed. (6)
13— The bird and I call for an encore
in France. (4)
15 —Car tiff is usually inevitable when
this gets tangled. (7)
17 —Name for ladies only. (5)
19— Serene gin (anagram). (9)
20 — It begins a cheer in the joint. (3)
21— A small number ring by direc-
tion. (3)
22 Shadow more than 100 noisy. (9)
24 — You are close to commit may-
hem. (5)
25 — Placed in the speechless bagpipe
melody of character in “La Vie
Boheme.” (7)
26 Merriment of a catch in parts. (4)
28 —Mercery that stimulates couples.
(6)
31 —Tree-cat is muddled and so forth.
(2, 6)
/
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
(Solution in next issue.)
32 — “Sometimes she gallops o’er a
courtier’s ” (Queen Mab in
“Romeo and Juliet”). (4)
33 — Act II features a bird. (4)
34 Brink of 151 with loud musical
marsh-grass. (6, 4)
Down.
1 — Chamber doctor has a victory
with the stable-hand. (7, 4)
2 Dark estimate of unwatched Aus-
tralia. (3, 8,4)
3 Some latitude is required in yell-
ing for neckwear. (7, 7)
4 Arboreal residence in a street
running opposite to sou’-west. (4)
5 Salt-water sealing without fish. (3)
6 Nothing makes it therefore a unit
of work. (3)
7 Lose your temper, but not it
you are a*non-swimmer. (2, 3,
3,4, 3)
8 — Bacon used to use this pen when
alive. (3)
10 —Drab lord’s house (anagram).
(5, 9)
14 — Parliamentary head of the A.L.P.
is alp. (3)
15— Ditch. (6)
16 — Policemen’s race evokes some fine
writing. (11)
18 —Stick fast and you’ll know where
to put the answer. (6)
23 —21 across across the Channel. (3)
27— Iolanthe was one by one. (4)
28 — Carl’s this in town in Europe. (3)
29— Dove’s call. (3)
30 — Dry but only for half a second.
(3)
Solution to Crossword No. 38.


ROLLS R
The famous
m
m
cc-
ti?
<<
m
a
m
m
1
£4
PRICE
Ho soap, water, brush or blades needed
« G//2 99
for the l/iee^O^^
ELECTRIC
m
A
DRY-SHAVER
A beautifully made precision
instrument which incorporates the
following outstanding characteristics.
1. It is fully guaranteed against de-
fective material or workmanship.
2. It has no motor and requires no
lubrication.
£770
3. There is only one efficient self sharpen-
ing, Twin-cutting head to be cleaned
after shaving.
With all these distinct advantages the
Rolls “Viceroy” Electric Dry Shaver is the
best that money can buy. Operates on
240 volts, A.C.
Shave anywhere — anytime with the
99
\(m~~
' (/ on
NON-ELECTRIC u DRY
SHAVER
Without Electricity, Soap, Water, Brush
or Blades. This fully guaranteed non- ✓V
electric precision instrument is a useful J
substitute for your Viceroy Electric// '
Shaver during Blackouts. The v —s
ideal companion for a man when |
travelling and on holiday camping
trips. Keep one in the glove box
of your car and shave where you like k
when you like. Remember you need v_/
no electricity, soap, water or blades to op- (—/
erate the Viceroy Non-Electric Dry Shaver.
£6100
One Blade Safety . . .
Equipped with one hollow ground blade
which, with proper care and attention, will
last for many years. This self stropping,
self honeing Rolls Safety Razor has main-
tained its prestige and given perfect satis-
faction to countless thousands of men the
world over for more than a quarter of a
century.
Rolls Razor products are obtainable from all leading Stores, Chemists and
Tobacconists. If your local dealer is unable to supply, write direct to us and we will
see that your requirements ate sent Post Free to any address in the Commonwealth.
Cigarette Lighter Repair Service!
If your cigarette lighter is out of action because of damaged
or broken parts, we can repair it for you from our range of
spare parts for every well-known brand of Lighter. The
cost is low and we can offer a 48 hour service on repairs.
ROLLS RAZOR
QUEENSLAND: The
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD.
8a CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY • TELEPHONE BW 2038
Interstate Representatives:
Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane. VICTORIA and TASMANIA; Godfrey Phillip (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Drury Lane, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe & Sandover Ltd., Hay Street, Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Cornell Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide.
