

CHRISTMAS WINE FOR BRITAIN!
A Hare yon friends or relatives in the United Kingdom? Here, then, is news that must
interest you. Just imagine them toasting you at Christmas Dinner while you toast them
in the same wine twelve thousand miles away! That’s possible through the “WINE-FOR-
BRITAIN” scheme introduced by The House of Seppelt. Through their Don don Office, Seppelts
will arrange foTr your friends in the Homeland to be supplied' with Seppelt Wines before this
coming Christmas. You’ll have to act at once for Christmas will soon be here. Get details
of Seppelts “Wine-For-Britain” scheme: Write to The House of Seppelt, Box 1422 H, G.P.0.,
Adelaide, South Australia.
m
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
' SERVICE
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin” Vol. 70—No. 3640
Wednesday, November 16, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
MIGHTY PENDENNIS GUARDED CORNWALL'S SHORSE
PENDENNIS CASTLE, standing on a promontory overlooking the estuary
of the River Fal; was built in 1545 during the reign of Henry VIII to
strengthen the coastal fortifications between Hull and Milford Haven. The
castle, which protected the important Harbour of Falmouth, consists of a
central fortress enclosed within a curtain wall which is itself surrounded by
steeply-banked outer works and a blockhouse on the rocks beneath the castle.
The principal entrance to the castle keep is approached by a drawbridge over
a fosse which at one time was guarded by a portcullis, which still exists.
In 1591, when rumours that Spain was preparing a second Armada caused
much alarm in England, the outer defences of the castle were strengthened
by Queen Elizabeth.
The guns which defended the castle were made of iron and brass,
mounted on wooden carriages, and fired stone or cast-iron balls which varied
in calibre from four and a quarter inches to eight inches. Normally the
castle was garrisoned by 400 men armed with muskets, pikes, bills and
calivers (heavy handguns fired from forked rests).
On a clear day the visitor to Pendennis has an extensive view of the
surrounding country and of the coast from Portscatho to the Lizard, the
headland from which the Spanish Armada was first sighted on 19th March,
1588. In the summer of, 1595 the Spaniards raided and burnt Penzance, a
town farther to the west.
The Civil War was the most important event in the military history of
the castle. Under its governor, Colonel Arundell, the castle withstood a
six months’ siege before capitulating to the Parliamentarians in August, 1646.
Pendennis has had* some distinguished visitors. In 1644 Queen Henrietta
Maria stayed there before sailing for France. Prince Charles, afterwards
Charles 11, took refuge in the castle before sailing for the Scilly Islands in
1646. The Duke of . Hamilton was imprisoned in the castle for a year in
1644. The last captives in the fortress were French prisoners taken in the
battle of Corunna.
Until 1914 Pendennis Castle was used as a barracks, training for militia,
married quarters, etc. In 1920 the castle came into the custody of H.M.
Office of Works, and is now maintained as an ancient monument.
In near-by Falmouth Harbour the famous clipper “Cutty Sark,” built
in 1869, can be seen.


fd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE .
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney "Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 149
AGE.
The Red Page
BACK FROM FAK-FAK.
At a point when a Dutch official is
making some objections to her plan of
travelling by native prau from Hollandia
to Aitape in the Mandated Territory—
where she proposed to collect insects for
the Adelaide Museum —Miss Evelyn
Cheesman records in Six-Legged Snakes
in New Guinea (Harrap) some mild sur-
prise at being “mistaken for an orthodox
person.” Nobody who has read her
book would ever repeat that mistake.
Miss Cheesman is an amazing person.
In the jungles of New Guinea, in,
places most people had hardly heard
of before the war and which after-
wards became names to shudder at,
she wanders about alone and supremely
happy. She is interested in nettles
and leeches; she is fond of poison-
ous spiders; she adores snakes.
Continual rainstorms which, if allowed to
beat on a close-fitting hat, would cause
neuralgic headaches are a minor dis-
comfort to be shrugged off by the use of
a native umbrella. A hurricane which
blew for 10 days and flattened the trees
in all directions was, so to speak, a light
breeze.
Not that Miss Cheesman makes light
of her adventures, or cracks hardy ; but
she takes it all so naturally. Snakes,
spiders and hurricanes were the sort of
thing she expected to meet on her travels,
and she deals with each in its turn quietly,
naturally, efficiently and, so that she may
collect it for her museums, usually with
a whiff of some lethal chemical. She
appears to handle natives with the same
indomitable ease. The only time she
really allows herself to become orthodox
in her book is when she is treed by a
wild sow; it is quite astonishing to learn
that the sow was not treed by Miss
Cheesman.
Six-Legged Snakes dates back to 1938
and 1939 when Miss Cheesman was up
in Waigeu Island —Netherlands territory
off the north-western tip of New Guinea
—collecting horrors for the British
Museum. She also went to Japen Island,
then from Hollandia to the Mandated
Territory. She has a good deal to say,
n a very spirited manner, about red-tape
at Rabaul and Aitape, and, though things
may have improved since the war, anyone
who is thinking of blowing into the
Mandated Territory from Hollandia, to
collect bugs in the Torricelli Mountains,
would do well to heed her warnings. The
present reviewer, however, is not think-
ing of going further than Manly this
weekend.
Miss Cheesman is first encountered
determinedly heading for Waigeu in a
rajah’s wooden barge. She takes a room
in the rajah’s house because there is
nowhere else to stay, and is surrounded
by Malays, pigs and tree-frogs:.—
The night would have been silent directly
the villagers dispersed and twilight shut
down on the straight, had it not been for
the vigorous croaking of scores of frogs,
large green tree-frogs. They are such a
vivid color, a yellow-grass-green, that one
imagines they should be very conspicuous,
even in the trees, but there will be no
sign of them until dusk, and then every
tree seems to give tongue.
There are birds; there is the Moham-
medan call to prayer; there are tiny
fish, charmingly described, among the
coral. But Miss Cheesman has not sailed
to Waigeu to enjoy the comparative
civilisation of native villages; she is
going to climb half-way up' Mount Nok,
otherwise known as Buffelhorn, which the
natives think is haunted by a six-legged
supernatural snake, and there, floating
on the uncertain vegetation above a
precipice, build her a house and catch
butterflies. Which, collecting a few
natives for bearers and builders, she does.
She catches rare and beautiful spiders
and puts them in her cyanide-bottle ; she
shows the natives how to catch rare and
beautiful snakes in, if one remembers
rightly, her butterfly net. She crawls up
slippery mountainsides in the rain. She
clambers up a wall of rock like a lizard
and, again like a lizard, catches rare and
beautiful insects as she goes. She leads
the natives on a climb to her aery plat-
form and meets face to face on it an
exceptionally beautiful python.
Above all, she knocks the forest down.
She chops away the trees to make a track
that goes in a straight line instead of
zigzag, the way the natives like it. She
chops down more trees to clear a view so
that one of her men may see his village
away down beside Fak-Fak Bay; where,
by night, the villagers see the great lamps
she uses to catch moths shining on the
mountainside and wonder whether she
will ever come back-back to Fak-Fak.
She chops down still more trees to make
lanes for the butterflies in the jungle, so
that they will fly into her nets. She
diverts rivers to make traps for dragon-
flies. She sees in the distant bay a pro-
digious patch of foam made, so the natives
tell her, by a squid which, if it exists, is
too colossal for her to dare to estimate
its dimensions. She loses herself in a
swamp. And she finds it all “very
beautiful; one can never be sated with
this type of vegetation, there is always
something new.”
Certainly, there is always something
new. For, instance, an earthquake, caus-
ing shoals of fish to jump into the air in
Fak-Fak Bay. Or a wasp cunningly catch-
ing spiders by agitating their webs so that
they run to slay the intruder and are slain
themselves. Or the wild sow. Or an
aggrieved native to have his wife restored
to him, her scoundrelly father having sold
her for a dinner-table and then stolen her
back again. Or the ten-days’ gale in which
“the hut swayed like a tulip on its stalk.”
Or cuscuses, and flying-squirrels and tree-
kangaroos ; and the “handsome bandicoot
( Myoictis ),” striped red and black, on
which were “two handsome fleas, also
colored red and black.”
Here is Miss Cheesman in her camp on
Mount Eiori in Japen Island—the trees,
needless to say, have been felled in all
directions, the rivers diverted:
A great triumph was the dragpnfly pond
lined with clay which we made at one side
of the clearing. Surface water was some
distance away and the pond enticed a
surprising ■ number of dragonflies. One
evening not favorable for the moth-screen
I snatched an hour for some necessary
repairs, by carpentry and otherwise, and it
happened to be a good evening for the
mole-crickets to emerge. They all came
direct to me, I remained sitting with a
cyanide-bottle beside me.
And here she is on her 80-mile trek
from the mission-station at Vanimo along
the coast to the red-tape at Aitape—a
kind of parasitic growth that Miss Chees-
man finds considerably more irritating
than any obstreperous liana of the
jungle:
I strolled along to the lagoon, waiting
for my soap and towels to be unpacked,
for a curve of the bank made a fine
bathing-pool and I longed for a dip above
all things.... There was a flowering shrub
of cream blossom and one of sky-blue.
Tree-frogs, crickets and a few birds were
engaged wholeheartedly in jubilation. A
catbird was mewing sentimentally. There
were no mosquitoes or sandflies. Truly
New Guinea can grant interludes of perfect
peace Suddenly, without any preliminary
warning, a few feet from the bank appeared
the head of an enormous crocodile.
Perhaps Miss Cheesman is an orthodox
person after all: for why didn’t she pop
that crocodile, about which she after-
wards had a nightmare, into her cyanide-
bottle? For all that, Six-Legged Snakes
in New Guinea is a very remarkable
book; a rich, a strange, an exciting and
a well-written b«ok; travel literature and
nature-writing at their best; a magnificent
book. During the war it would probably
have been a best-seller ; it should still be
widely read.
Timid Assassenachs.
If anything were needed to show the
value of blind and strong prejudices in
a writer it is A Small Stir■ (Hollis and
Carter), in which James Bridie and Moray
McLaren write each other letters on the
English.
When Dickens attacked the Americans
last century, or in 1945, when the Ameri-
can literary critic, Edmund Wilson,
attacked the English (B. 9/3/’49), their
books were immensely readable because
there were no beg-pardons and no punches
pulled. But it is a shameful thing to see
two Scotsmen pretending to knock the
Englishman down, then picking him up
and brushing him off and tenderly licking
his boots. Nobody particularly wants to
see the Englishman knocked down; in-
deed, the book on national characteristics
is such an old game that it is hardly worth
playing; and when it is played in such
a half-hearted manner it is not worth
playing at all.
Mr. McLaren tells a good story about
some worshippers in a Dorset village in
the 1860’s who encountered a notice on
the church door:
Out of respect for the late Squire’s
memory there will be no Service this Sunday.
He regrets the deterioration in over-
seas respect for the Englishman’s word,
which used to be honored in such phrases
as a Vheure Anglaise, meaning sharp on
time; and he regrets the Englishman’s
waning faith in his own superiority:
There has.... come over the English mind
in particular, and the British mind in
general, a much keener awareness of the
fact that the inhabitants of this island have
to share the world with foreigners on equal
terms. Indeed the journals of today, both
popular as well as intellectual, tumble over
each other in printing articles which purport
to understand the foreigner’s point of
view. I have said that this change of view
is almost pathetic. I mean it. Though I
have spoken Jiarshly about the English-
man’s nineteenth-century insensitive insu-
larity, I see it go with something of a
sigh
Mr. Bridie begins with a seeming in-
tentioh to attack the ruling British in-
tellectuals, whom, after Kipling, he calls
Gigadibses:
I have an impression also of a sort of
ordered society (or racket). In the upper
reaches walk such figures as Forster, Eliot,
Rebecca West, and, perhaps, Charles
Morgan. They do not appear to abide
anybody’s question. They are of the racket
but not in it. In the same finer air are
the Sitwells; but although they have some
of the stigmata of racketeers, they are
allowed remoteness and privacy, probably
because they undoubtedly belong to the
upper gentry
The dramatic critic has more courage
than the literary critic... .A sense of power
sustains him at his dismal trade. If he is
bored, and says so, he can sometimes ruin
a year’s work and deprive some worthy
tradesman of several thousand pounds. He
is usually sustained also by ignorance of
the mystery he is expounding, and, like
most literary persons, he is not a man of
great judgment. He is given little time
to think, so he cries up and cries down
with great emphasis....
But, says Bridie, remembering that he
is a playwright,
1 may tell you that all the London
dramatic critics I know are gents, even if
some of them are of Nature’s variety.
Perhaps this is true of all the English
Gigadibses
And so it is not surprising to find him
remarking that for a’ that, an’ a’ that,
It is my firm belief that beyond the
shores of Albion is the sea, and that
belongs to Great Britain. Beyond the sea
lies the scum of the world. I cannot help ■
it. That is what I feel....
Thus, you see, Mr. Bridie had the pre-
judices after all, but neither,Mr. Bridie’s
nor Mr. McLaren’s prejudices fit them
to be entrusted with the job of doing-
over the English.
Sea Slanguage .
The shorebound charts in the Marine
Editor’s cabin shivered in anticipation
as he opened Sea Slang of the Twentieth
Century (Winchester), by Eric Partridge
and Wilfred Granville ; they were not dis-
appointed. A salty gust cleared their
dust, and blew reminiscence through the
M.E.’s bust. For hadn’t he been desig-
nated “as wet as a scrubber” (the descrip-
tion of any exceptionally inane rating)?
And how often had he called the midship-
man of his pinnace (to himself) “you
wart” (a naval cadet or midship-
man, the lowest form of naval life; an
unseemly excrescence. Cf. Wonk, Dogs-
body, Snotty).
As he read on, through Eric Part-
ridge’s interpretation of the thousands of
terms and nicknames, the elegancies of
wardroom speech and the needle-witted
inventions of the lower-deck which Mr.
Granville has gathered together in this
amusing lexicon, he felt (as all naval men
will feel) that he was reading a mixture
of naval history and personal reminis-
cence, the latter conjured by the
Rabelaisian fruitiness of some pseudonym
which he remembers to have been applied
to a certain member of his own ship’s
company.
Remember, those of you who’ve swal-
lowed the anchor, “Admiralty weather”
(bad weather which might have been
arranged by the Admiralty, for it always
happens when a man is going on leave);
the messmate as “handy as a cow in a
spit-kid”; “the barber’s cat” (a talk-
ative messmate); “bargemen” (maggots
in ship’s biscuits); “blackouts” (the
undergarments of the “bloomer” type
issued to members of the W.R.N.S. Of.
“passion-killers”); “bung up and bilge
free” (a pal lying asleep during a make-
and-mend or half-holiday); being
admonished to “button your flap” ; being
called a “fathom of misery,” or “doggo”
(one modelled on the lines of Wallace
Beery rather than of Stewart Granger),
or being told you had a “face like a
scrubbed ’ammick” (an expression as sour
and pale as a newly-scrubbed hammock);
or “catching the Lover’s Leap” (the first
train from Waterloo to Portsmouth in
the morning).
Recall the bloke with a “laugh like a
chief stoker” (seagulls are said to embody
the souls of dead chief stokers, partly
because they laugh like one); “lightning-
conductors” (the broad gold stripes on
the trousers of naval officers’ full dress);
the “marks of the beast” (patches worn
on the collar of a midshipman’s uni-
form) ; the euphemistic appellations of
those who gained commissioned rank
through the hawse-pipe—“number-nine
bosun” (warrant wardmaster), “weevil
bosun” (victualling warrant - officer)
“muscle bosun” (P.T. instructor), and the
“sin bosun” (chaplain).
And, of course, you will remember
those “links of love” (sausages); “Jack’s
delight” (a lady of easy virtue in a dock-
yard port); a “sick-bay goose” (bed-pan:
from its neck and squat appearance); and,
in truth, all of the thousands of spicy
slangisms and explosive ‘ epithets in
present everyday use afloat.
The book is more than a dictionary,
even without Partridge’s sparkling
etymologies, which would make a land-
lubber laugh: in its associations the
whole of a seaman’s blue-water life will
pass in chuckling review.
Reviewed Briefly.
A History of the Davis Cup: Com-
piled by D. C. Coombe, captain of the
1947 New Zealand Davis Cup team (Aus-
tralasian Publishing Co.; Hennel Locke).
Will fill what must be a gap in most
sporting reference libraries. A sizeable
and well turned-out volume giving detailed
scores and notes on the play in every
Davis Cup match played up to 1948
not merely challenge rounds, but also
all elimination matches. Illustrated with
some photographs of particular interest.
* * * «
Virtue in the Sun : Barbara Beauchamp
(Macdonald). A divorced husband has a
reunion with his wife, big son, little son
and little daughter at a beach-picnic last-
ing some 200 pages ; the feelings of each
member of the broken-up family are
beautifully drawn; , and one should
imagine that the little book would not
make very pleasant reading for divorced
fathers.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Mahatma Gandhi: edited by Rad-
hakrishnan (Allen and Unwin). This is
a revised edition of the collection of
essays by various friends, supporters and
admirers which was handed to Gandhi on
his 70th birthday. New material includes
a set of ‘meAiorial tributes by, among
others, Aldous Huxley, Middleton Murry
and Dame Sybil Thorndike.
* * * «
Broken Images: John Guest (Long-
mans). Journal of a soldier who went
through World War II in England, Africa
and Italy. As the record of a sensitive,
intelligent and humorous personality,
frank in his self-portrait and lively and
observant in his portraits of everybody
from the C.O. who lost his wits in his
first air-raid to Cardinal Spellman and
the Pope meeting in Rome, the book is
in the category of Edmund Blunden’s
Undertones of War and Sassoon’s 1914-18
memoirs.
* * * *
Lena Geyer: Marcia Davenport
(Collins). The report that Marcia’s
mother was the opera-singer Alma Gluck
maybe accounts for this 160,000-words
portrait of an opera-singer who never did
anything wrong ; even gave up a gorgeous
love-affair with a French aristocrat be-
cause love was interfering with art. Still,
the great days of European and New
York opera early in this century are well
recreated, with considerable insight into
music and food ; there are plenty of real
names, such as-Mahler’s and Lili Leh-
mann’s, and maybe Vestri, the Italian
conductor who insisted on playing “what
the composer wrote,” and is shown leav-
ing the Metropolitan for ever because
Lena Geyer would not love him, is better
known to the public under another name.
And if Lena Geyer is more what an
opera-singer should be than any opera-
singer ever was, she is at the same time,
especially in her affair with the Due de
Chartres, what every woman circulating-
library reader would like to be —and that
must require considerable stamina.
* * * ♦
The Cage: Dan Billany in collabora-
tion with David Dowie (Longmans). A
diary, dialogues, descriptions, etc., kept in
a p.-0.-w. camp in Italy. Captured in
Africa in 1942, these two young officers
were released in September, 1945, and
disappeared completely, the manuscript
being sent to their parents by an Italian
farmer. It begins cheerfully, with descrip-
tions of their prison and guards, the
Freudian analysis of their fellow-prisoners
in the prose of Auden, , descrip-
tions of the acts the prisoners put on to
cheer themselves up, and transcriptions,
some very amusing, of inscriptions on
latrine walls. But after their transference
from Capua to Rezzanello the diary be-
comes more introspective; its most fre-
quent subject is Alan Matsen, a young
officer working himself into an hysteria,
and demanding more and more attention
from one of the unwilling authors—how-
ever, as far as the publishers can discover,
Matsen wasn’t there at all: “He is per-
haps a symbol of distress; perhaps, in
part, a self-portrait,”


I
X
&
m.
an mmsm e ]
■
• iHIHKh
~; -<v ,
•-'■ ,': -■
3SOH ;<
v< ■>>
' I .*
.
m
Mi
.»,:: r-
Ha
■
1
w
f 9\
S
iP
MUi
/*• ** =.«fes__-.j
g|—
SB®
: Sy ■
:
sWaP*
i
- :
Ms#
:
■■i
WBmSmm
M:
■hm
‘
m.i ; V&. *
:
aKMi
,
.* :
' ’ . V
mmm
H
\'. A It j '
<o^
Hi
Hw
s
mm
m
// * :
m
■■■■
iiliilii
IW
>t '
mmmm
mm
mmm
m
iPi® Wm
-m
mm.
mm
iii
Hi
59/
» -■> *5
i;' , ■■■ *1
K* > -
, i m
f
TRUTH
ADVERTISING’*
NTHOIVY HORDERNS’
60 Measured fittings available in each pair of these comfortable shoes!
Below
Hutton’s Playboy Shoes, made in England, have rich
Suede uppers, heavy plantation finished rubber crepe soles,
Also in chukka boots, £6/11/-.
Brown
£6/7/-.
TELEPHONE: M 2401; BOX 2712C, G.P.O.,
SYDNEY
The Packard Moccasin, which is finished in Brown calf, has either leather
or rubber non-slip soles, 59/-; also in Brown and Fawn suede, 57/6.
Large photo —from left to right.
This Julius Marlow Flexible Moccasin is in all Brown calf, with leather or
rubber soles, 45/-; or in Brown and Fawn calf, with non-slip soles, 45/-.
Julius Marlow Flexible Casuals have snug non-jarring cushion heels
and roomy toes. They are available in rich Brown calf, 45/-.
r MEX MA BILIM* in your order, please sketch
your foot! To do this, place your foot, wearing a
sock, on brown paper, and with a pencil, outline the shape.
Send this outline together with the size usually ordered to us.


H
m
jm: g i
. n \c
\ .-^
W"'"'\
zy/i
\Wr *****
•-| I f / \
I \
1 a
K.,xr/>'\ " \
K
s- \ f
I: *
/->
>;;
o. .
Y \ ■* i
Uv/J
vifrt
Ay'./
am *
■•>■:■
; - S
\
.$7 A /I"
>\h-L &■ -f \ y / y .|
fa v 4-. *4 \\Jl Sfc* I
■■ zi'lk
A\ 'n -
(i '■;■■:•/ W ' i I.
'\i'A::Y\ /L» . .
/’V _\.*/ r / ' ' -■■ < '
t/i ', \ <" 4 V / //
id k hd mmirAA?:/
•he&s K-/;\ /}'?;/<«■ 7- A-~/ ■ '..
td- • ?'■ \ &JwJrA* &>■■.
•-' : :k,f \ 4- "•■••"
/ r kr ; /.£V/k->.~
/; /??
vl I,'. c;\
i/ / /- :\ ( / ?k ■; -,v
- :'<y.rAAj
■ ■.. ' - VC C ..^
; ii#
" ***s?
' iif/
.->' v 'S.ilp
Hi
For their protection
—and YOURS!
Should fire overnight destroy your
business, you would have to face up
to to-day’s hard facts.
(1J High costs of labour and materials
mean no property can be replaced
for it's insurance value .
(2) Plant , machinery, stock-in-trade
unfulfilled orders , employees who
go elsewhere, because of world
conditions, all are irreplaceable .
Statistics show 2 out of 5 burned-
out businesses never resume
operations .
Managements to-day are well aware
of these facts. They know they
must be prepared for fire before it
strikes. Fire can’t t>e prevented. But
it can be controlled. Whenever it
strikes, night or day, it can be killed
at its' sources instantly through
Grinnell Automatic Sprinklers.
That’s why "Grinnell - Protected”
buildings carry a rebate of approxi-
mately 50% on fire insurance
premiums.
Wormald Brothers maintain a com-
plete Fire Protection Service in all
States and New Zealand. Experienced
engineers will help plan dependable
protection for any type of fire risk.
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEM
WORMALD BROTHERS
PTY. LTD.
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889
SYDNEY, NEWCASTLE, BRISBANE, TOWNSVILLE
MELBOURNE, ADELAIDE, PERTH, HOBART
WELLINGTON, AUCKLAND, CHRISTCHURCH, DUNEDIN


The Bulletin
Vol. 70 —No. 3640
Wednesday, November 16, 1949
BARNACLE BEN THE SOCIALIST.
"You scrub while I scrape, Bert, and by election-day even his own caucus won’t know him.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521; ‘Phone, 8U5971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
MENZIES GIVES BATTLE.
Mr. Menzies, speaking for both the
Liberal and Country parties, which have
achieved a commendable spirit of co-
operation, addressed one of the largest
audiences ever collected together in Aus-
tralia through the medium of radio. The
occasion was worthy of the audience, for
it is obvious that this is a Last Chance
election. If the Liberals and Country
party cannot produce a joint policy which
will convince the people that the present
Government must be swept out of office,
Australia is in for an era of totalitarian
Socialist darkness.
There was no difficulty in seeing the
main issue of the election from the
Liberal-Country-party point of view.
There is only one main issue. It is
whether this country is to remain a
nation governed under British principles,
with individual constitutional rights pre-
served, or whether it is to sink into
totalitarianism as represented by the
“Labor”, platform, with a one-House,
absolutely sovereign Parliament, the States
replaced by helot provinces and muni-
cipalities taking their orders from Can-
berra, and with all credit socialised and
all property and human actions under
detailed departmental and caucus control.
There is no question about this. As
Mr. Menzies put it:
When we speak of Socialism, we no
longer speak of a theoretical or far-distant
goal. Our opponents mean business. To
the limits that the constitutional division
of powers will permit, indeed without limit
if their platform plank of giving all power
to the Commonwealth Parliament obtains
public approval, they have determined upon
“Socialism in our time.”
That is perfectly true. Mr. R. S. Ross,
who took part in the drafting of the
present socialisation objective, according
to the official report of the A.L.P. Con-
ference which adopted it, described the
accepted scheme as meaning “nationalisa-
tion first, and then control by some sort
of soviet system.”
But it was not until the Chifley Govern-
ment, in 1947, took what was described
approvingly, at the originating A.L.P.
conference, by the late Mr. Darby
Riordan as “the first step under this
scheme.. . .socialisation of banking and
credit” that it was clear to the public and
to the Opposition parties how imminent
were the perils which threatened the coun-
try from the would-be murderers of the
Constitution. Behind their cloak of
moderation they were determined to
bring about socialisation immediately.
The N. S. Wales A.L.P. Conference,
which endorses Mr. Chifley and Dr.
Evatt, in 1944 set the period for the com-
pletion of its aspiration as “within ten
years,”
It is true, as Mr. Menzies pointed out,
that on the eve of the election the Federal
Labor party has begun to claim that the
socialisation objective does not mean what
it says, but that it is qualified by a reso-
lution passed in 1921, though not by a
statutory majority and never included in
the platform. But it is also true (again
to quote the Liberal leader) that in all
Labor-party literature “the objective of
socialisation of industry, production, dis-
tribution and exchange has been printed
without qualification as the sole objective
of the Labor party for 28 years—ever
since 1921, when it was adopted and
hailed by ‘Labor’ leaders as the splendid
product of the teachings of Karl Marx.”
It was Mr. Holloway, Minister for
Labor and Industry, who said that the
plan was the “culmination of the teach-
ings of Marx,” and it was Senator Ashley
who, upon the day before Mr. Menzies
delivered his speech, admitted, in the
Baroona Hall, Brisbane, that
The objective of the Labor party is con-
tained in its platform and constitution, and
is well known to its political opponents.
It has remained unaltered for 28 years.
And what “has remained unaltered for
28 years” was fully explained at the time
of its adoption by leading, members of
the party who have since risen to
eminence and whose explanations left no
doubt whatever about the fact that the
whole plan came from Communist sources
and that it envisaged a soviet system in
which Parliament would be virtually
destroyed and the power of the land
would be vested in boards of “workers”
managing industry. The conference that
adopted the objective which Senator
Ashley now extols for its permanence
actually rejected, by a vote of 22 to 9, a
motion by Mr, Theodore to substitute
for it an objective which would exclude
the small man and private property from
expropriation and totalitarian control;
The emancipation of labor from all forms
of capitalistic exploitation, and the obtain-
ing for all workers and producers the full
reward of their industry, by (a) the nation-
alisation of those industries of production,
distribution and exchange which are used
under capitalism to despoil the community;
and ( b ) co-operative action in financing,
marketing and distributing primary products.
Yet “Labor” now has the audacity to
attempt to persuade the electors that the
Socialist-Soviet objective to which it
pledges its Federal candidates means only
what is in this motion, which it over-
whelmingly repudiated!
“Labor,” of course, will not admit that
Socialism is an issue at the election. Its
catchcry is “full employment and social
security,” and the section of Mr. Menzies’s
speech dealing with this was only second
in importance to that in which he dealt
with socialisation. The two subjects inter-
lock, since Socialism can only work where
employment is shaped to fit the coat of
totalitarianism and its purposes; so that
“unless people do what they are told,
work where they are told to work, learn
what they are drafted to learn —in a
sentence, fit obediently into their
appointed place—the Socialist-planned
State falls to pieces like the false and
shoddy thing it is.”
Mr. Menzies set out particularly to
counter the illusion that “the aspiration
of full employment is a monopoly of the
Socialists.” He pointed out that during
the depression the majority of Govern-
ments in Australia were “Labor,” yet
were unable to counter unemployment,
which reached record levels, and that
when the “Labor” Governments were
thrown out the people were willing to
keep Liberal - Country - party Govern-
ments in office for 10 years of remark-
able recovery. He said that a full-
employment policy was one which could
not depend entirely on socialistic public
works. It was “completely interlocked
with policies for the stabilisation and de-
velopment of the primary industries,
housing in the country as well as the
towns, improved transport, the securing
of migrants experienced in farming
methods, the maintenance of supplies of
coal and other basic materials, the in-
crease of production by adequate
material incentives, the reduction of costs
by greater efficiency on the part of both
employers and employees.”
These matters form the basis of the
constructive Liberal - Country - party
policy now put forward to produce,
inter alia, increased production, leading
to competition among sellers and lower
prices; greater turnovers, leading to re-
duced costs. All these are combined in
the Menzies-Fadden plan with “resolute
reduction in the burdens of government
and in the rates of taxation to reduce
production costs” and get goods to the
people below the present inflated rates.
On the industrial side, the policy might
be summed up as the liquidation of the
class-war and the destruction of the forces
which seek to use the trade-union move-
ment for the treasonable purposes of
Communism. If a Liberal-Country-party
Government prevails, its policy will be
one which aims for co-operation and a
sharing of the rewards of industry be-
tween employer and employee, the main-
tenance of arbitration and the improve-
ment of the conciliation system. The
Communist party is to be banned, its
known members to be excluded from
offices in which they can carry through
their own or the Kremlin’s seditious
objectives.
The community is to be protected
against the continuance of coal-stoppages
by the creation of coal reserves through
the extension of opencut and mechanised
mining. The Liberal-Country policy
envisages the provision of an ade-
quate supply of petrol even if it
calls for a subsidy on purchases
outside the ordinary sources of supply,
and a development programme which
will pay special attention to the north,
including feeder roads, soil-conserva-
tion, development of rural housing, flood-
prevention, light-and-power provision and
vermin - and - noxious - weed destruction.
This scheme will be financed by loans to
the tune of £250,000,000, raised over five
years, with interest and sinking funds pro-
vided out of the petrol tax.
The Bank-Grab Act is to be repealed
and the present system of autocratic totali-
tarian Commonwealth Bank control re-
placed by one headed by a small board
of directors, with the governor as chair-
man, and subject to “the sound principle
that great financial decisions shall not be
kept secret and that the elected represen-
tatives in Parliament shall be able to
control them.” The trading-bank acti-
vities of the Commonwealth Bank, in fair
competition with other banks, are to be
continued. Programmes of health and
social service were foreshadowed.
In defence, universal military and
physical training is envisaged “for periods
suited to Australian conditions,” and the
migration policy is comprehensive.
The election issue—and the Liberal-
G.P. policy-speech expressed it well
—boils down, let it be repeated, to a
contest between a well-tried system built
on British ideas of commonsense, indi-
vidual freedom and moderation, industry
and thrift, which is completely suited to
the temperament of the Australian people,
and a Russian-invented form of Socialism
which suits only the temperaments of the
kind of dictators who look forward to
administering it, after the suppression of
all those who are not ready to give them
servile and unquestioned obedience.
Phony "Fun-employment."
Even before the election campaign had
begun. Dr. Eyatt, with that air of cock-
sure infallibility that so endears him to
his fellow-citizens, had to announce the
result. He is Rostand’s Chanteder : —
Sounding in advance its victory,
My song jets forth so clear, so proud, so
peremptory,
That the horizon, seized with rosy tremb-
ling,
Obeys me.
Before Mr. Chifley had a chance to ex-
pound in his policy speech what com-
promise he might find between his per-
sonal pledge to socialise all industry and
his insistence that such socialisation is
not on the programme—before Mr.
Menzies was due to announce on behalf
of both Liberal and Country parties the
issues which he and Mr, Fadden would
arouse in the field —Our Foreign Policy
rooster had to promulgate the result.
There is no uncertainty and no sociali-
sation issue, he said. Indeed, he implied,
there was not really any need for the
elections as resolving anything in doubt.
There would be “a nationwide landslide
for Labor.”
Meanwhile Mr. Chifley’s Ministers had
been preparing for the fray in astonish-
ing discord. Mr. Calwell said the
socialisation policy, on banking and
everything else, was as dead as mutton.
Senator Cameron said if “Labor” were
re-elected the banks would be “beaten
down,” and was promptly echoed and
amplified by the N.S.W. branch of the
Postal Workers’ Union (where the Commo
white-ants are hard at work), which de-
manded nationalisation and the rousing of
the unions to “assist in beating down legal
and constitutional difficulties in the way.”
Dr. Evatt, who, incidentally, interpreted
even the pronounced heckling he met in
Adelaide as “admiration and friendliness
for Mr. Chifley,” said nothing mattered
but “full employment,” every other pos-
sible election topic being irrelevant. Mr.
Ward said that anyone who voted for
him, at least, would be voting for sociali-
sation of banking and of all other “vital
undertakings.” Mr. Dedman, whose
political word on any question at all
recalls the axiom about a gift horse,
described the tendency of the “Labor”
party towards socialisation as a mere
allegation put out by propagandists, and
then qualified that with remarks which
could only mean that such propaganda is
met with in the “Labor” party also, where
“it springs from differences of opinion
on the true functions of government.”
In such straits the electors should turn,
perhaps, to Mr. Ward for the true milk
of the word. He said last week at King’s
Cross that bank-nationalisation, though
declared dead for these elections, “must
be kept alive.” He holds that without
socialisation “Labor” cannot function,
and that
If there is to be real progress towards
implementing the policy of the Labor party,
it is inevitable that there must be a bank-
ing system completely under the control
of the elected representatives of the people.
He hoped, he said, that if there were a
referendum on the question the people
would exercise their votes intelligently.
From all of this it may be assumed
that the Socialist plan of campaign is to
try to wave aside at the elections any
challenge on the party’s socialisation
objective, the Government’s bank-grab
failure, its bungling and hypocrisy over
petrol, its silent consent to Communist
sabotage in the unions, and the serious
drift of our national economy into in-
flation, and to seek office again solely on
what it calls “full employment.”
If “Labor” can win with that gag it will
then decide its tactics on the “dead issue”
of socialisation, and especially on the
“beating-down” of obstacles to destroy-
ing the trading banks. It may be obliged
to find some new High Court judges,
“temperamentally fitted.” It may hold a
referendum on the subject, declaring that
without taking over the banks and control
of all prices and contracts it cannot cope
with inflation. Having lost that refer-
endum (as it surely would), the “Labor”
Ministry wifi chuck all its compounded
economic mess at the public—as after
the prices referendum last year—and
declare that everything that has gone
wrong is the peoples’ own fault.
That the electors should hand over the
country to the Socialists with a mandate
to do what they like (for that is what it
would mean), simply because of the
absence of unemployment during the past
three years, would be plain silly. At
the end of the war the call to attend to
all the civilian jobs piled up during six
years of hostilities assured —and still
assures—ample work for everybody for
an indefinite period of years ahead.
National development schemes, necessary
under any Government, would occupy for
generations a much bigger working popu-
lation than Australia can muster. The
soaring prices for Australian foodstuffs
in a starving and ravaged world overseas
have, during the past three years, pro-
duced ample income to be spent in Aus-
tralia. Is it any wonder that there has
been work for everybody?
True, the Socialists made a certainty of
scarcity of working hands in productive
industry by (1) draining off unprecedented
numbers of young men and women into
unproductive Government employment,
and (2) supporting the unions’ claims for
a 40-hour week. The Taxation De-
partment alone is still mopping up
hands wanted for the nation’s work
in order to employ them in hunt-
ing out tax-dodgers. Among these
are the workers —their name is legion—
who, refusing to “work for Chifley” in
more than conventional measure during
the shortened week, put in spare time at
jobs which are not recorded for taxation
purposes, and grow quite indignant if
this is called profit-seeking.
But, these aids to inflation apart, the
ruling “full employment” which unions
in essential industries have been astonish-
ingly ready to drop at the crack of some
union boss’s whip is no more the Chifley
Government’s doing than the Rajah of
Bhong’s. Nor have the industrial sup-
porters of this Government been very
happy over the value of their wages. Mr.
Chifley found the pound-note worth about
20s. when he took office. It is now
rated at about 10s., and in another three
years of Socialist government like the
last three it would probably be over-
valued at five-bob.
Any elector who feels that Ministers
may be overdoing their propaganda about
“full employment,” and who shares with
those whom Mr, Dedman cites “differ-
ences of opinion on the true functions
of government,” has at command a very
simple test of “Labor” platform speakers.
Let him try these questions: If “full em-
ployment” under “Labor” will continue
to carry the nation over every conceivable
difficulty—known and unknown —why is
Socialist Britain in such a hole today?
In Britain the “Labor” Government not
merely has a socialisation objective; it
is operating on it far and wide and deep.
It is no longer “fighting the doctors”
about proposed “free” medicine and
health; it has made itself bankrupt
through installing these “benefits,” But
even the Socialist workers in Britain will
not work any harder for a socialised in-
dustry than they would for “the capi-
talists” —indeed, they won’t work so hard
as they used to do. And the shortages
of everything the consumer wants grow
greater and greater with every fresh in-
dustry taken over and “nationalised.” The
opposite-numbers in Britain of the
Chifleys, Evatts, Dedmans and Wards
are, for lack of production at com-
petitive prices, telling the British
unions that they must work harder with-
out increase in wages and endure higher
cost of living, the civil service that
thousands must be sacked, and the whole
nation that it must eat less, smoke less,
pay something in cash on the spot for
its “free” health services, and submit to
compulsory direction of workers to any
job which the Government may select.
When the British electorate tosses out
this Socialist crowd —as it surely will next
year—Australia, if it votes for Mr.
Chifley, will be isolated indeed from the
economy of the Atlantic Pact, During
the next three years the Marshall Aid
plan will have ceased, and Germany and
Japan will be back as competitors in
world markets. There will be no more
“full employment” in go-slow time after
that. Let the electors ask Mr. Chifley
before they join the cocksure Evatt’s
“landslide” just what he will do to assure
the present “prosperity” when these
developments come to pass.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Socialism in Practice.
Those people to whom Socialism-in-
theory still offers the lure of a better way
of life than that to which they have been
accustomed may find their rosy dreams
becoming a little murky if they give due
thought to a section of the policy-speech
of the Opposition-leader Menzies in
which he pointed out some of the first-
fruits of Socialism-in-practice. After re-
minding his listeners that in Australia the
pre-war pound was now worth only ten
shillings, Mr. Menzies went on:
In Socialist Great Britain, where the deadly
effect of Socialism is now most obvious,
certain great affairs have been nationalised,
the shareholders (many of them financially
small people) being paid out in Govern-
ment interest-bearing bonds. The Bank of
England was nationalised a little over three
years ago; yet the £lOO shareholder’s bond
has fallen in market value to just over
£BO. In three years Socialism has stolen
away 20 per cent, of the price it paid.
The railways' were nationalised. There
the £lOO bond has fallen in 18 months to
£88; 12 per cent, of its value gone. The
Socialist Government in January, 1947,
got from its thrifty citizens £482 million
on a2J per cent. loan. Today, so shortly
afterwards, £lOO of that loan brings only
£66 on the market; one-third of the
savings invested have gone into thin air,
while what remains will buy less than it
could two years ago. “Chifley for
Security”—“Attlee for Security” —What a
mockery these slogans become!
A mockery indeed. The former share-
holders in the Bank of England and the
British railway companies will have no
illusions as to' what security means under
Socialism. When they were bought out in
Government bonds there was, no doubt,
much unctuous speechifying by Socialist
Ministers about a fair price. The people
who received the “fair price” have since
watched its value diminishing month by
month. Three years ago, when Dr. Dalton
appealed to Britons to show their faith
in their country by subscribing to his 2\
per cent, loan, anyone who had dared to
prophesy that by November, 1949, the
market-value of the bonds then offered
would have depreciated by one-third
would have been branded as a traitor;
yet, as Mr. Menzies pointed out, that is
the position today.
Australian Socialists, adepts at finding
excuses for the inexcusable, will probably
produce all sorts of explanations for the
decline in jjrVs© of British stocks, none
of them attributable in any way to weak-
nesses in Socialist theory or practice.
They will also self-righteously plume
themselves that despite what has happened
in the Old Country nothing of the sort
is likely to happen here under their
regime. It is possible they will be
believed. After all, it is a long time since
1931, in which year under another
Socialist Government Commonwealth
£lOO bonds were changing hands at £76.
McKenna Goes the Limit.
Earlier this year Senator McKenna’s
idea of his part in Mr. Chifley’s Socialist
revolution —that of “nationalising” the
medical profession under cover of “free”
medicine —was, like Bottom’s lion, to
“roar you as gently as any sucking dove.”
Cabinet was distinctly not amused. So
far as could be judged from outside the
Cabinet room, there were terse remarks to
the effect that if McKenna wanted to be
raised from hopeless fifth to promising
first on the Tasmanian “Labor” Senate
how-to-vote list, he’d better cut out the
sucking-dove stuff and remember the
party’s objective. Thereafter Mr. Chifley
announced that the Government was out
to “fight the doctors,” and McKenna—
accepting his part (in Quince’s words)
as “nothing but roaring”—was moved up
to first place on the voting-card.
From the way he is now beginning to
roar on the election platform the public
may judge “Labor’s” real intentions
about socialisation. The Wards, the
Pollards and the Dedmans of this “Gov-
ernment” are setting the tune, while the
Chifleys and Evatts are talking with
tongues in their cheeks. What are the
Constitution and the principles of demo-
cracy among these political brigands!
What is their respect for the rulings of
the High Court, which has declared that
the Government’s attempt, under a
spurious clause of the National Health
Act, to conscript the medical profession
is in flagrant defiance of the Government’s
own referendum undertaking disowning
“any form of civil conscription”? This
is how Senator McKenna speaks now, in
face of the High Court judgment for the
doctors:
If “Labor” is returned the argument
with the B.M.A. will be speedily resolved
in favor of the Government. The doctors
will want the Almighty on their side if
they are going to win this argument....
It is my dearest wish that I might go
back as Minister for Health just long
enough to end the argument.
Just as it is Chifley’s dearest wish to go
back for just long enough to destroy the
banks, and Evatt’s for just long enough
to get powers permanently installed at
Canberra to control all prices and all
contracts between one man and another.
McKenna’s concluding sentence —surely
one of the most reckless examples on
record of electoral diatribe in a bid for
votes —was this: -
Doctors have more income than they
need, and it shocks me to think that they
have a callous indifference to the sick and
suffering of the community from whom
they draw the whole of their income.
Always the same undertone. Doctors —
or anybody else selected for Socialist
attack—“have more income than they
need,” so incite hatred against them!
They refuse (with the support of the
High Court and of Mr. Chifley’s own
law) to enslave themselves to a central
Socialist bureaucracy, so defame them
and subdue them “speedily”! McKenna
has at least made pretty certain that the
doctors henceforth will refuse to deal
with him.
N.S.W/s Next^Chief Justice.
The death of knight Frederick Jordan,
Chief Justice of N. S. Wales, has created
another vacancy, the most important
of all, on the Supreme Court Bench
of the senior State of the Common-
wealth. With party-political passions
rampant as they are, and with
“Labor” in power intent on bringing
about revolutionary changes in our
society by what it calls peaceful means,
it becomes necessary to enter a caveat
against any proposal—and some pro-
posal will not be wanting—to fill the late
Chief Justice’s place with a political ap-
pointment. The McGirr Government’s
long delay in filling a previously existing
vacancy on the Supreme Court Bench
cannot be explained by any difficulty in
finding what the legal profession in New
South Wales would regard as a suitable
judge from its senior ranks.
“Labor” Governments are apt to make
merry on such occasions with the tradi-
tions cherished among those they call the
privileged classes. They see everything
through the narrow vision of standard-
bearers of “the class-war.” Party in-
terests are a constant criterion in any
decision in the carrying-on of “the exist-
ing order,” “Labor” desires judges whom
it appoints to be, in a phrase Mr.
Theodore made famous during his politi-
cal career, “temperamentally fitted.”
If warning is needed, as it would seem
to be, it were best given quickly. Irre-
parable harm can be done by, for in-
stance, submitting the choice of Chief
Justice to a caucus opinion. The Chief
Justice of New South Wales is one of the
oldest high offices in Australia, and
carries with it the duties in emergency
of Lieutenant-Governor of the State. The
Chief Justice, whether he be selected
from the Bench or from the Bar, must
be one at whom no citizen can point the
finger of scorn and whose merits for the
post can arouse no doubt or debate. He
must owe his elevation to nothing save
the merits of his learning and character.
These will be recognised most clearly
among members of the legal profession,
and, if not knowin also to the mass
of the public, at least no layman should
be able to dispute or despise them.
These considerations apply, of course,
in the appointment of any judge, but
most compellingly in the superior place
among them all. The tributes paid on
the passing of Frederick Jordan, C.J.,
marked very clearly the reputation re-
quired of the man who holds that office.
The emphasis expressed in eulogy of
the late Chief Justice’s qualities by
leaders of the State’s public life was per-
haps inspired in some measure by appre-
hensions felt at this time about the choice
of his successor.
Another Russian Victory.
It now seems reasonably certain that the
first two people on earth were not Adam
and Eve, but Adamovich and Evarina,
who thus founded that chosen people
which now inhabits the Land of Promise,
and does nothing all day and half the
night but give praise to the dead god,
Lenin, whose apostle is Stalin.
It would be best if we infidels, the
descendants of those unhappy victims who
were lured from the Garden of Paradise
in the long ago by the serpent of capi-
talism, and who have not yet had the
scales knocked from our eyes so that we
can see the way back, accept this con-
clusion at once and be done with it.
As everyone knows, Soviet scientists
and historians, artists and writers, having
escaped from the shackles of plutocratic
imperialism, see Truth as naked and as
shining as the faith of an Australian Com-
munist in the belief that Menzies forced
Chifley to put up the price of beer. It is
because Truth is clear only to a Soviet
scientist that the world is learning what
it owes to Russian skill in research, in-
ventiveness and discovery.
We were astonished to learn of the
Russian discovery of perennial wheat, of
the invention of false teeth for aged dairy
cows, of bees that selected this or that
flower so as to make honey of various
flavors, of sheep which shed their wool to
save shearing it. These were agricultural
matters in which we were veritable tyros,
our attempts to progress viciously
sabotaged'by capitalist exploiters. Since
then we’ve learned how the Russians were
first with aircraft, radar, submarines,
tanks, automobiles, airguns and cap-
pistols ; first to the two Poles and some
other Poles we hadn’t heard of ; first with
art and literature and the plot of Robbery
Under Anns ; first to answer Pilate’s ques-
tion, “What is Truth?” if, indeed, Pilate
didn’t filch it from the Russian envoy in
Judea.
Nobody, therefore, should be astonished
that Soviet Professor A. A. Mavrodin, evi-
dently a son of old Mavrodin, has dis-
covered that not to Drake, Hawkins,
Raleigh, Frobisher and the rest is the
credit for the English victory in those
{Continued at foot of page 8.)
/
LACKING IN SUBSTANCE.
“I know it LOOKS an awful lot, Dad; but when you get your teeth into it there’s nothing there.”


[For election matter David Adams, Cecil
Mann, J. B. Blair and M. H. Ellis, all of 252
George-street, Sydney, are responsible.]
to
Keep
CBAVENK
sake
throats
your
for
Obtainable
in 10’s & 20 , s
CARRERAS LIMITED-OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
splendid 10 days of July, 1588, when the
beacons flared from The Lizard to
Beachy Head and the English Queen
rallied her countrymen to the threat of
the Invincible Armada. Not to them the
credit, for in his book. Role of Russian
Science in the History of Culture, the
Comrade Professor states that the victory
was Russia’s because the English ships
were “built of Russian timber, used
Russian sails and rope, and were
smeared with Russian pitch.”
It is good to have the mistaken beliefs
of 360 years corrected ; good to reflect
that even then the glorious Russian
people knew how to deal with the
ancestors of the Fascist Franco ; good to
reflect that Drake’s confidence in his
ability to finish the famous game of bo'fls
and then wallop the Spaniards was based
on his knowledge of what his ships were
made of; good to reflect that today the
things our capitalist masters want us to
revere are still, like Drake’s ships, being
smeared with Russian pitch.
And what hope now for the Jewish and
Christian claim to Adam and Eve? So
perish all traitors to the revolution of
the proletariat!
POLITICAL POINTS
With Ministers and members bobbing
up at strategic points all over Australia,
saying their piece and swooping off to
other fields, and with sticklers for tradi-
tion hurling at candidates higher-
priced eggs than have ever been flung
before, the election campaign is warming
up. Lesser lights on the “Labor” side
have given varying foretastes of the party
policy, but when this page went to the
printer Chifley was just gathering up his
papers to deliver his official policy speech.
Menzies, four nights earlier, had set him
a pretty high standard, and Fadden was
waiting to tie up any loose ends of the
joint Opposition parties’ case. Fadden
speaks tomorrow night at Boonah (Q.).
The Opposition parties, through
Menzies, have now clearly defined their
intentions regarding Socialist legislation
of the Chifley Government. If placed
in power they intend to
Repeal the Bank Nationalisation Act.
Establish a Commonwealth Bank board
which will be responsible to Parliament,
and not under the personal dictation of
the Treasurer.
Review shipping legislation; remove con-
trols such as the one which prevents a
company from acquiring new vessels except
at the discretion of the Minister.
Require the Commonwealth Shipping
Line to justify itself “nationally or com-
petitively.”
Put the Government airlines on a true
competitive basis.
Remove political controls now exercised
by the Broadcasting Control Board.
Menzies’s statement on this subject con-
cluded : “Apart from these specific
•matters, we will resist the return of
oppressive Government controls of all
kinds.”
Menzies did not find time to
discuss his taxation policy fully in the
socialised hour which was granted him
for his policy-speech. He promises a
complete overhaul of the system, par-
ticularly in relation to the removal of
anomalies, the simplification of the
statutes and the incidence of indirect
taxation on the basic wage and housing
costs. Tax allowances on medical,
dental, optical and ear expenses are to
be liberalised. The whole system has be-
come such an inequitable tangle that if
Menzies can put it on a fair basis he
deserves a couple of gold medals.
Among other things Menzies said a
Liberal-C.P. Government would restore
and encourage the cotton-growing in-
dustry, lately condemned by the Tariff
Board as “in a state of collapse” and not
worth Government assistance. The
Menzies promise will get a big welcome in
Queensland, where the growers don’t be-
lieye the Tariff Board knows the full
story.
“Labor” apparently regards Chifley as
its trump card for December 10, and all
hands are dutifully bearing public witness
to his sterling qualities. Several of his
followers, including Bert Evatt, have com-
pared him to Abraham Lincoln ; others
avoid comparisons and get straight down
to superlatives—“the greatest Prime
Minister Australia ever had,” A week
ago Dedman, with one eye on Hubert
Opperman and the other on Australia
House, London, spoke at some length on
his chief’s personality, generosity, toler-
ance, kindness and charm, and went on to
say that Chifley stood second to none “in
matters of finance, international relations,
economics, governmental administration,
agricultural or industrial policy and poli-
tical tactics.” When the Minister for Mis-
construction got that far he gave it up.
with the plea that “no words of mine can
adequately describe his outstanding bril-
liance.” Forward, Deddy, and collect
your prize—one empty Corio bottle.
In arranging Ministerial itineraries for
the election campaign Calwell seems to
have made a bad tactical error as far
as Queensland is concerned ; he has given
Eddiq Ward the last word. The East
Sydney pet is scheduled to speak in North
Queensland on November 29 and 30
and December 1. On current form he
can be relied on to lose in those three
days any ground his colleagues have
laboriously gained in the preceding 30.
Calwell declares that no Japanese will
come to Australia for the Olympic
Games and that “no athletic body, local
or international, will dissuade me from
that policy.” Seems a far cry to the time
and it was not so very long ago—
Calwell’s official organ, the “Labor
Call,” used to carry splurges of black-
typed manifesto demanding that Australia
should cut the painter from Britain and
team up with Japan. Like this under
the heading “Australia First”;
Hughes makes a bogey of Japan,
England is more dangerous.
Japan has remained a peaceful neighbor.
She has no designs on Australia.
E. J. Holloway, Calwell’s colleague in
the Federal Ministry, was virtual con-
troller of the “Labor Call” when that
was published.
Seeing what the Olympic Games are,
and the place they hold above all con-
siderations of politics, religion, race or
color among mankind —even above issues
for the Australian elections—if Calwell’s
statement this week is allowed to stand,
that no Japanese competitors will be
allowed to come to Melbourne for the
Olympic Games in 1956, no Australian
need be surprised if the international
governing body of the Games should
cancel the proposal to hold the 1956
fixture in Melbourne.
Spender has been questioning Bert
Evatt’s attitude on the subject of Privy
Council appeals. “Labor’s” platform, to
the support of which the Doc. is pledged,
provides for the abolition of the right of
appeal, yet Evatt has publicly stated that
he considers the right a most valuable
one and that he is opposed to its abolition.
Attempts to get the Attorney-General to
explain how he reconciles his expressed
views with the pledge he has signed have
resulted in nothing but silence. Spender
accuses Evatt of speaking with his tongue
in his cheek, knowing full well that his
party’s programme aims at
(1) putting an end to Privy Council
appeals;
(2) obtaining a High Court favorable to
“Labor’s” constitutional issues;
(3) imposing complete socialisation.
“Dr. Evatt is the Artful Dodger of Aus-
tralian politics,” says §pender. “It is about
time the people took a tumble to him.”
Reports from Barton suggest that a con-
siderable proportion of the electors are,
in Mo’s pet phrase, aWake-up to the Doc.
For several months Professor Hytten
has maintained silence in the face of
flagrant misinterpretation of a paper he
read on full employment at the Science
congress in Hobart early this year. He
allowed the vaporings of Ward, Haylen
and a score of lesser lights to go unchal-
lenged, but when Dr. Evatt at intervals
between Perth and Toowoomba repeated
the canard that Hytten had advocated an
unemployment pool of six to eight per
cent, the Professor felt he “ought to
correct him.”
The governing sentence ih the whole
paper was: “The aim of policy should be
the highest level of employment compatible
with stability, since it implies two very
reasonable economic aims, namely, the
fullest possible use of resources and the
elimination of mass unemployment, which
is a great social evil,”
He went on to say that he had once before
crossed swords with the Attorney-
General, when the latter had said “that
the time had passed when any man could
choose his own employment.” Hytten
commented:
That, I think, is a proposition which
most liberty-loving Australians would
reject. I know I would.
The Socialists would not reject it. Their
“ordered economy” cannot be achieved
without compulsory direction of labor.
Chifley admitted as much last year,
though he has denied it since, and Cripps
has made it brutally clear in Britain in
the last few weeks.
Just as a matter of record, the Evatt
speech from which Professor Hytten
quoted was made in 1944 at the School of
Political Science in Canberra. His actual
words were:
The taking away, in the future, of the
right of the individual to choose his own
vocation and employer is only one of the
freedoms the Australian people must be
prepared to forgo in the interests of the
State,
In the interests of the State.
John Strachey, British Food Minister,
said the Attlee Government would not
inquire into the finances of the Overseas
Food Corporation. This is the show
that spent £23 million of the British tax-
payers’ money on a peanut- and sun-
flower-growing stunt in Africa and pro-
duced a woefully inadequate yield of
peanuts. A lot of people would like to
know how much it lost on the Peak
Downs sorghum scheme in Queensland.
“Labor’s” comic strip, “The Way
Ahead,” concludes with the slogan
“Chifley Spells Security,” and the party
seems to be pinning its faith to those
words. In so doing it is assuming
that Australians value security above all
other things—an assumption of very
dubious validity. Archbishop Mowll, in
an address to the Anglican Synod in
Sydney last week, emphasised that there
was a moral as well as a material side
to nationalisation;
The social-service State to which we
seem to be tending would free many from
the bondage <pf insecurity, but it might
enslave them in a deeper bondage which
would rob them of their initiative, energy
and self-respect.
If security were everything “Labor” holds
it out to be, the prisoners in Long Bay
and Pentridge would be the happiest
people in Australia.
Baited by his audience at a Sydney
meeting, Army Minister Chambers re-
torted to an interjector who wanted to
know who paid for social benefits: “I
pay more than you.” That was probably
correct, but Charnbers omitted to add
that he is able to pay all his social-service
contribution, plus all his Parliamentary
pension premiums, plus a lot of other
things, out of the £5OO a year increase his
party voted themselves as soon as they
were returned at the last election.
On Monday it was just a year short of
a century sjnce the first bank was opened
in Brisbane. It would have been closed
before the century was up if the Chifley
Socialists had had their way.
The Czech Government has expelled
John Fisher, son of Andrew, and thus
an old Communist friendship breaks up—
unless Moscow steps in. Fisher was
employed by the “Moscow News” and
the Comintern before World War 11, on
the verge of which he arrived in Aus-
tralia as an employee of the Communist
party, became Canberra correspondent of
the “Tribune,” developed an admiration
for Evatt and Ward. After the party had
been banned and unbanned, Dr. Evatt
thought that he would be a suitable man
to act as Australia’s official publicity man
at the newly-created Australian Ministry
in Moscow. For the past three or four
years he has been in Prague extollirfg for
various Communist and fellow-traveller
papers the glories of life behind the Iron
Curtain, which apparently has become
not so glorious as it was.
The Czech Minister for Internal Tradp
says there’s to be more nationalisation
of private industry, and as a result about
30,000 “business workers” will be trans-
ferred to other jobs, probably to factories
and mines. This is the Chifley-Evatt
theory in practice—that, in order to main-
tain “full employment,” it “may be neces-
sary to take power to direct manpower,”
or words to that effect.
Under the newest Federal petrol order
all owners of petrol are required to “de-
clare” their stocks by December 1. It
prohibits the sale or removal of petrol
in excess of the 20 gallons allowed by a
previous order. How this applies to
Tasmania, where petrol isn’t rationed, is
one of those mysteries which might never
be solved if Labor loses the Federal
election.
Queensland Parliament managed to
get petrol-rationing through last week,
but not before Wanstall (Lib.) had re-
minded the House that the Federal and
State “Labor” Governments claimed
rationing was necessary to help Britain.
Then from “Courier-Mail” issues of Sep-
tember, 1940, he quoted Labor pre-
election advertisements which read; “If
Menzies’s petrol-rationing comes into
operation business and property values
at seaside resorts and roadside businesses
will be ruined.” That was when the Ger-
man bombers were hailing down death
and destruction on England—under
Churchill.
Senator “Fixer” Ashley-said at Baroona
Hall, Brisbane, on November 9, that “the
bogey of Socialism has whiskers on it.”
Wrong. Only a moustache —Uncle Joe’s.
Socialists can be horribly unlucky at
times. Somebody dug up a young woman
and her children to pose with the British
Deputy Food Minister (Dr. Edith
Summerskill) in pictures of “happy
mothers and bonny babies” thriving
under the Socialist regime. Then the
“happy” father was pinched for stealing
coins from an electric slot-meter and told
the court, “There was no fire in the house,
and not a scrap of food in the pantry. I
couldn’t stand seeing the wife crying her
eyes out and the children as they were.”
He got off on a bond.


♦
FIRST IN 1888...
FIRST TO-DAY!
NO OTHER BATTERY
CAN MATCH EXIDE'S
61 YEARS' EXPERIENCE
EXIDE BATTERIES OF AUSTRALIA PIT, LTD* 44 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
f_ F. ■ :
£xtve
XKtOM
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lord Forrester, who, as head serang
of Enfield Cables, is to build a cable
factory near Sydney, can be relied upon
to see that when the works go up their
design will satisfy the most fastidious
local planner—in London he is chairman
of the School of Planning, and has put
his ideas on industrial planning into a
sizeable raft of pamphlets. Director of
half a dozen British companies, he rowed
in the Eton eight and also won the school
steeplechase —he still sparetimes at
running. And to prove that directing big
business is not wholly materialistic, he
has won, four times, the Jelf Latin Verse
Prize. A refreshing optimist, he’s still
-under 40.
A senior constable of the Victorian
Force, Norman McCallum, who’s head-
ing off to study scientific research with
Scotland Yard for six months, is B.Sc.
from Melbourne University, and last
year won his Master’s degree with a thesis
on the distribution of ethyl alcohol in
body fluids, A keen-eyed 34-year-old
with a jaw like a spade, McCallum joined
the Force in 1937, since when he has been
admitted as an associate of the Australian
Chemical Institute. His record includes
sound work on the Pyjama Girl
case and the Coates and Box Hill
murders. In the first case, by drawing
a web-like system of radial lines over
the contours of faces, he nullified the
theory that the unidentified victim was
Philomena Morgan. In others he has
made Sherlock Holmes a comparative
piker by his microscopic study of human
and animal hair, analysis of blood found
on boots and cars, and the spectographic
dissection of paint-smears left on wrecked
vehicles by hit-run drivers. The State
Government plans to add a research
department to the City morgue—it’s a
fairly safe bet that McCallum will take
charge of it.
Allan Longstaff, new general-manager
of S. Smith and Sons, the aviation-
instrument and clock manufacturers, can
claim the distinction of owning the first
face to be transmitted by radio over
14,000 miles of the earth’s surface to Aus-
tralia. That was 15 years ago, when he
was A.W.A.’s representative in London.
His good-looking physiognomy was, as
well, the subject of the earliest experi-
ments in television of photographs be-
tween London and Sydney. Chief
negotiator in the U.K. for a whole range
of modem gadgets—the Beam, the radio-
phone between England and Australia,
f.-m. broadcasting and television —he
began as a morse “key-pumper.”
“El Verdugo” sees a pal off —tempor-
arily ;
It is sad to see Joe Abbott, New England’s
M.H.R., going out of the Federal House just
when he is being proved right in most of the
things he has fought to convince the
country. He was one of the few members of
the Federal Opposition who, in the last gruel-
ling years, never lost heart or abandoned his
fight. A big man physically and a clear-think-
ing and honest one mentally, he has carried on
the battle against Communism, extremism and
corrupt administration unremittingly, some-
times with a vigor and outcry which earned
from his opponents the sobriquet of The Bull,
but always with transparent honesty of pur-
pose. If he has one quality which has told
against him it has been a soft heart, which has
often pulled him up in mid-flight just as his
charges were going home. Son of Joseph
Palmer Abbott, Speaker of the N. S. Wales
Assembly for the whole of the historic decade
of the ’nineties and a member of two Federal
conventions, Joe Abbott belongs to a pioneer
pastoral family which has been associated with
New England (N.S.W.) almost from its begin-
nings. He served in World War I and won
M.C. He has been president of the Graziers’
Association, chairman of the Australian Wool-
growers’ Council, vice-chairman of the Royal
Commission on Banking (1935-37), and on elec-
tion to the House of Reps, in 1940 he became
Minister for Home Security within a few
months. His great knowledge of pastoral
matters made him invaluable to the party, and
though, on account of ill-health, he has tem-
porarily left Parliament for the slopes of his
burning mountain at Wingen it would be a fair
bet that Canberra has not seen the last of him.
He is a brother of The Bulletin’s Jack Abbott,
writer of historical yarns, and of Macartney
Abbott, who served in the Reps, for Upper
Hunter throughout World War I and in the
Senate 1935-41.
It would be fairly safe to bet that at
this moment some naval officer is reading
a letter which begins “I have been
directed by the Naval Board to ”
and which goes on to inform him of
anything from a court-martial to the
necessity of reducing his ship’s topweight
by five tons or increasing his oerlikon
ammunition by 500 rounds. For the
last three years these missives have born
the signature “Thos. J. Hawkins, Secretary
tc the Naval Board,” Now Hawkins,
who entered Navy Office in 1915, and
has been in that directorate of the
Australian Fleet ever since, with a spell
away to graduate in arts and law at
Melbourne University, goes up to the
secretaryship of the Department of the
Navy. He knows the job well enough
—he was assistant-secretary for two years
from 1944. He was, as well, secretary to
the Naval Intelligence Officer in World
War I, when that past was held by
Lt.-Cdr. John Latham, now Chief Justice
G f the High Court,
Reginald Richard Sholl, K.C., just
missed going down in history as having
knocked up a century in legal cricket—
he concluded presentation of his brief
at the Royal Commission on Communism
in Melbourne on the 99th day of the
inquiry. As leading counsel assisting the
commission, he has called 81
examined or announced 21 people wish-
ing to refute alleged calumnies against
them, put in 760 exhibits, including
formidable Marxist volumes, ballot-boxes
and bank summaries running into many
pages, and seen the transcript of evidence
reach over 3,000,000 words—equal to
about 50 average novels. Bora in Mel-
bourne in 1902, Sholl was Victorian
Rhodes Scholar for 1924 and toured the
U.S. with the Oxford-Cambridge lacrosse
team before setting up his shingle in his
home-town in 1928. He served in the
A.I.F. in World War II and became K.C.
i n 1947.
Herewith a Scorfield impression of
Lieut.-Colonel Charles Groves Anderson,
V.C., who (as a change from Japs) is
having a shot at the Hume (N.S.W.) seat
for the C.P. in the Federal furore. Lean,
quiet, determined, Anderson exudes
sincerity—it wraps the man. Pressed to
talk on his decoration (he holds M.C.
from the Kaiser’s war as well), he spoke
for half an hour on that epic fighting
retreat down through the Malayan jungle,
when, for four days and nights, his troops
held off a closely-pressing enemy superior
ANDERSON, V.C.—allotted Hume.
in everything but common courage; he
mentioned himself possibly twice, but
glowed (in so far as his nature allowed)
when he spoke of the fighting efficiency
of his men. In one violent night they
got nine Jap tanks, some at 20-yards
range. Anderson came out of three-
year’s incarceration to take on grazing
near Young. He’s come out of that to
fight again—this time his twin hates,
Socialism and Communism.
Seventy this coming Friday, Dr.
C. E. W. Bean, here portrayed by Dubois,
continues to wield an effective pen and
exert a helpful influence in Sydney’s pub-
lie life. A clergyman’s son-his father
.. . a aii rvu
was sometime head of All Samts Co -
lege, Bathurst he went to Clifton Col-
lege, England, and to Oxford, where he
collected M.A. and B.C.L, Called to the
Bar, Dr. Bean was for a time associate
to Justice Owen, then joined Sydney
C. E. W. BEAN—allotted span.
“Herald” (for which he wrote the articles
preserved in those fine books on Aus-
tralian outback life. On the Wool Track
and The Dreadnought of the Darling ),
became its London representative and
later leader-writer. When World War I
broke out the Australian Journalists’
Association was invited by Senator Pearce
to recommend a pressman for official war
correspondent—Dr. Bean was selected by
ballot. Appointed official war historian,
he edited and wrote a great part of the
Official History of Australia in the War
of 1914-18, a 12-volume publication which
took over 20 years to complete, and
earned the highest praise from military
chiefs. Always an active figure in pub-
lic life. Dr. Bean organised the Parks
and Playgrounds Movement in N.S.W.,
was president of the Institute of Journa-
lists and interested in ex-servicemen’s re-
habilitation. He had his Litt, D. as an
act of grace from Melbourne University.
To the Army and Air Force what
C. S. Forester is to the Navy—a full-
blooded historian who brings to the arm-
chair reader the fascination of being
present at the battles of World War II —
Hilary St. George Saunders has put on
Australian bookstalls this month another
of his widely-enjoyed war books. The
Green Beret. He writes this time of
commandos, those merciless fighters
who “aroused such a passion of
hatred and fear in the hearts of their
enemies that first Von Runstedt, then
Hitler, ordered their slaughter to the last
man.” Author of, among others. The
Battle of Britain, Bomber Command and
Combined Operations, Saunders is
librarian of the House of Commons,
which gave him entree to the authoritative
reports of the actions he handled with
such restrained adroitness. In the Kaiser’s
war he won M.C. with the Welsh Guards ;
service which accounts for the technical
exactitude of his work. His writing goes
back to 1924, since when, with John
Palmer, he has been concocting detective
novels under the pen-names Francis Seed-
ing and David Pilgrim. Other facets of
his versatility include a post on the Secre-
tariat of the League of Nations for 17
years from 1920, and two years as private
secretary to Polar explorer Dr, Nansen.
Enzed six-incher Bellona will be driven
back home by a new c. 0.. Captain J. H.
Ruck-Keene, 0.8. E., D.S.C., R.N., who
assumed command in Melbourne. He
reshipped sealegs after a spell as naval
attache in, of all places for a blue-water
man, Warsaw.
A possible future Menuhin has come
out of a Carlton (Melbourne) bakehouse
—John Glickman, whose father, a baker,
wanted him to be a doctor. Young
Glickman, however, started playing on a
quarter-size fiddle when he was four, was
eventually apprenticed to Issy Spivakov-
sky, of the famous trio, and gave his
first public performance at a city concert
hall at 14. He has just won, at 19, the
Carl Flesch Medal, the world’s highest
award for violin-playing, against nine
other entrants at the Guildhall School of
Music and Drama in London. The prize
automatically gets him appointment to
the London and Liverpool Philharmonics
as a soloist for the current year. He was
schooled at Scotch College.
Maoriland poets and musical com-
posers are enjoying a touch of limelight
in Britain. A composition by J. Dean
Goffin, of Timaru, is the test-piece
selected for playing in the Manchester
Belle Vue band contest, patronised by
the Old Land’s best. It’s the first time
the test-piece has been selected outside
England. Goffin, now 25, did his Middle
East tour with the N.Z. forces. Also study-
ing music at London University, Dorothea
Franchi was asked by its musical director
for a carol to be sung in St. Paul’s in
December. She chose “The Oxen,” by
M.L. poet and Bulletin contributor
Eileen Duggan, and set it for a four-part
unaccompanied carol for mixed voices.
There is a link between Ellen Terry
and the current production of “Macbeth”
at His Majesty’s, Melbourne —the sets
and costumes were designed by Edward
Garrick, son of Gordon Craig, whose
innovations in scenery and stage con-
struction early in the century have become
the commonplaces of modern theatrical
production ; Craig was the son of that
great Shakspearian actress. Garrick is
now art-director of Pinewood Film
Studios.
Salvaged his last ship. Captain Bob
Sinclair, of Fremantle, who first tasted
salt in a Norwegian barque and landed
his first command at 28. Soon afterwards
he salvaged his first clippie—a trawler out
of coal wallowing in heavy seas off North
West Cape. There followed a turn
ashore as pilot at Wyndham, then harbor-
master at Geraldton, before he tackled
one of the memorable salvage feats of
the Australian coast. A Jap steamer ran
up on a reef‘near Point Cloates in 1931.
Sinclair, in charge of salvage, dynamited
a channel ahead through the reef, laid out
seven kedge-anchors, hooked them on
to the ship with nearly a mile of steel-
wire hawsers, and plucked her out like
a loose tooth. Then he conned her
through a reef-fanged channel, patched
her temporarily and docked her in
Sourabaya. For this operation most of his
crew were station-hands from Carnarvon.
Sinclair’s father was a Fremantle ship-
ping-master, and two brothers are master
mariners. He was 52 at the end.
Into the Silence:
In Sydney, at 70, E. A. Barton, District
Court judge, and eldest son of “Toby” Barton,
Australia’s first Prime Minister,
At Macedon (Vic.), at 80, William Canjeron,
a director of British Tobacco. Born in the
tobacco country of Virginia (U.S.A.), he came
to Australia in 1890 and had beep in the
industry ever since. He built the huge
Memorial Cross topping Mount Macedon, north
of Melbourne.
At 60, in Brisbane, when on the way home
from an R.S.L. meeting, Lt.-Colonel Alex
Heron. A brigadier under Monash, with D.S.O.
and C.M.G., he was in the Pacific war O.C.
Troops in H.M. Transport Taroona, part of
whose run was past Buna, where one of his
two sons was killed in action.
In Adelaide, at 89, Rev. George Willis
Kendrew, a Yorkshireman who served for
nearly 50 years as Methodist chaplain in the
Australian forces. The first minister of Magill
Methodist Church, he joined the forces in 1901,
and sailed with the first contingent in 1914,
to become colonel-chaplain of the Ist A.G.H.
in Heliopolis.
At 78, in Melbourne, barrister Frank Shaw
Fitchett, for 50 years a specialist in company
law. His father was Dr. W. H. Fitchett,
founder of the Methodist Ladies’ College and
author of Deeds that Won the Empire.
At Wellington (M.L.), Matiu Ratana, M.P.
for the Western Maori electorate and son of
the Maori prophet Wiremu Ratana, who was
headline news about a decade ago. Matiu was
one of the four Maoris who kept the Labor
party in power.


SOCIETY
AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS
“Mac Hoots”: The cold war of the
slogans seems to be warming up on the
wharf sheds a Wooloomooloo. My
favorite Commo sloganeer had chalked
up “Release. Sharkey and Burns”; and
now I see that that has been altered to
the pleasing thought; “Release Sharkey
and Burn Him.”
* * * *
“Clooter”: The question has often been
asked, who or what is an average man?
It’s fairly simple if one takes physical
standards, but in other matters he would
be a bold-person who could point to
some individual and say, “There goes an
average man.” All the same, I believe
that Australians are capable of certain
typical actions or reactions which, when
we hear of them, awake a fellow-feeling
and make us think that, in some things at
least, we are average with the other bloke.
Thus I read the other day of a man who
went to meet his girl-friend at the store
where she worked and found her locked
in. Through the glass of the locked door
they communicated by writing notes and
holding them for the other to read. T
love you,” he wrote. “Don’t worry. I'll
get the police. “I love you, too,” she
wrote back. “But please hurry.” Where-
upon the swain went and found a con-
stable, informed him of the lady’s predica-
ment and was told that police head-
quarters would be informed.
“I went,” said the lover to a
reporter, “and had a couple of
schooners.” He seemed slightly
astonished that his sweetheart,
when released, went “a bit
crook” when she heard about
the beers. She was 19, he 25,
They are to be “married pretty
soon.” Presumably after he has
had a couple of schooners.
“Seahawk”: It is not unusual to hear
a radio-talk rounded off with a state-
ment that the views expressed are not
necessarily those of the station, but I
thought the limit in neutrality had been
reached when the evening weather fore-
cast prophesying scattered showers and
sundry other climatic vagaries was fol-
lowed by another voice disclaiming
responsibility for the views expressed. I
wondered whether some insidious form
of political propaganda was lurking be-
hind the isobars or sinister party influ-
ences at work in the trough formation.
The alternative, that the announcer, on
the strength of rheumatism or a trouble-
some corn, differed sharply from the
weather bureau, hardly seemed tenable.
Doubts were set at rest when the junior
member of the family came away from
die wireless-cabinet with the remark
“Gee, Dad, there’s not a hair’s-breadth
between those two stations.”
* * * *
“Statist”: If the church decides to
ban dancing and gambling in its halls
that’s its business, but when one of its
clergy starts quoting “statistics” which
are not statistics, that’s mine. Take the
reported statement of a Sydney clergyman
addressing Anglican Synod:
It is proved by statistics that 90 per
cent, of gamblers have their start in
playing cards not for money or any
reward, and 80 per cent, start in church
card clubs.
Without a definition of what he meant
by gambling and a clear exposition of the
methods used in compiling and checking
the statistics a statement like that is
valueless ; it weakens the speaker’s case
instead of strengthening it. If the leaders
of the church are looking for reasons for
the decline in numbers of their congre-
gations they should start vetting parsons
who make such irresponsible statements.
* * * *
“Helldud”: Destruction of those Tich-
borne documents (B. 2/11/ ’49) recalls a
store of historical records stumbled upon
at Sydney’s Supreme Court during the
’nineties by myself and another nipper.
As apprentice carpenters we were work-
ing in the roof, and there found a heap
of convicts’ discharges and newspapers
dating back to the early days of the
colony. A crowd of us thereafter spent
every lunch-hour reading the grim docu-
ments. Then one day two outsize coves
arrived on the job and herded all of
us into .a vacant court-room, where an
affluent-looking old gent, closely in-
spected the “line-up” and placed his hand
on the shoulder of a laborer, who was
led away, to be eventually charged,
convicted arid sent to jail for six
months for having tried to sell a con-
vict’s discharge to the old chap, a scion of
one of Sydney’s wealthy families bear-
ing a similar monicker to that inscribed
on the discharge. I’ve often wondered
whether those ancient records still re-
pose in the old roof.
* * * *
“Plop”; With the automatic-telephone
exchange completed, young men in over-
alls have been around our far-out suburb
giving new phones for old, and folk who
“Control yourself, Robert—some-
one might see us!”
like to bet by proxy on Saturday can now
ring up their bookmakers without the
qualms they generally felt under the old
manual system. After all these years it
takes a bit of getting used to, and as the
suburb’s subscriber places his new phone
back on its cradle his hand still some-
times wanders for a phantom “ring-off”
handle. Early in the change-over some
remarkable things occurred, and the new
deal seemed to consist mainly of crossed
wires. My wife rang her mother on the
other side of the metropolis one day, and
on hearing a strange male voice asked
if the number was XA so-and-so. “Heck,
no!” said the man. “I’m in a phone-
box at Wynyard.” And they keep telling
me the automatic exchange can’t make
mistakes.
* * * ♦
“Zake”: The bad intersection in our
outer Sydney suburb had claimed yet an-
other two victims—we anticipate that it
will need only about 17 more accidents
before the authorities authorise a couple
of “Halt” signs—and the Saturday-after-
“Young Woman , say ‘Yes or 'No’ —not 'Uh-uh' !”
noon crowd was gazing on the battered
cars and speculating on the condition of
the old couple taken away in the
ambulance when the police cycle and side-
car drew up. A young constable stepped
out, produced book and pencil and ran
his eyes over the scene: one dented car
slewed across the road, the other having
ricocheted into the ditch which our
council flatters with the name of gutter
and rammed a telegraph-pole. Then,
seeing a young cove sitting, still a bit
dazed, on the running-board of the first
car, he barked, “Now, what’s all this
about?” Suppressing a strong tempta-
tion to go and tell him the true facts —to
wit, that someone had been frying some
sausages in a pan in the middle of the
road and it had exploded—l left him to
piece the facts together for himself, so
obviously well developed were his powers
of observation.
* * * *
“Smacker”: Sorry, “Ex-C,G.,” but
those lines you attributed to Adam
Lindsay Gordon (B. 26/10/’49) really
come from Paterson’s “Rio Grande.”
The verse reads:
Dead men on horses long since dead
They clustered on the track;
The champions of the days long fled
They moved around with noiseless tread—
Bay, chestnut, brown and black.
Still, Banjo’s shade must be getting used
to this sort of thing; not so long ago a
Melbourne paper printed his “Tommy
Corrigan,” crediting the verses to an old
gentleman living in Tasmania.
* * * ♦
“Rooster”: “Exdig” (B. 2/11/’49)
would be surprised to learn the number
rejected for enlistment in World War II
through varicose veins. Cramping of
the limbs aggravates the condition, but
it is not the cause of it. Many cases were
listed among the P. 8.1., and they didn’t
have any lack of hoofing it. The trouble
seems to be that man has not yet become
entirely used to being a biped ; witness
the many aches and pains he endures in
the lumbar region. So it is that vari-
cosity may occur in persons whose job
entails long periods of standing. The
only position in which the veins are re-
laxed in the legs is the recumbent, with
the legs slightly raised. Spine-bashers
are singularly free from varicosity.
* * * *
“Nervy Ned”; Recently a passenger
took a jump off the end of a seaside bus
as it was travelling at full speed down-
hill ; an ambulance shortly gathered to-
gether his fragments, and at time of
writing they were being pieced together in
hospital. “There was no apparent reason
for the man’s act,” remarked an
afternoon paper. Whoever wrote that
should take a few rides on Sydney’s
cliff-country buses: the routes seem
specially designed to give all the
thrills of the switch-back railways.
After twisting roundabout on hairpin
bends which often take the vehicle to the
edges of deep drops, half a dozen of
those bus-routes end in a slope in which
the beautiful blue sea can be seen in the
distance over what looks to be the
abrupt ending of the roadway on a
pretty tall cliff. Like the Gadarene
swine rushing to destruction, the bus
hurls itself down this declivity at
full speed, and the only reason nervous
passengers do not rise irr a panic and cast
themselves off the end of the vehicle is that
they are being jolted about too violently
to control their actions. Just as the
moment seems to have arrived for the
leap into the ocean, the bus takes a sharp
turn and pulls up, panting. Then the
conductor remarks to those passengers
who, dazed with their experience, remain
in their seats, “All out here ; this is as
far as we take you,” as if the cow knows
that most of us thought they were taking
us to eternity. These bus-routes are
certainly no tonic for the nerves, and I
am not surprised to hear of an occasional
passenger hurling himself off with the
panic feeling that the hard road might be
a safer thing to hit than the wet sea.
* * * *
My Press-photographer experi-
ence (B. 19/10/’49). A scarlet-fever epi-
demic in our town received a great deal
of publicity, which was all to the good,
as it forced the authorities to take mea-
sures to stamp it out. But one metro-
politan cameraman stretched things a
little. He arrived here on a Thursday,
the town’s busy day, when the country
people come in. Quite a number of
farmers were lined up at the bar of the
pub when the photographer came in. He
shepherded all but one to one end of the
bar and took a snap of the solitary
drinker. The picture appeared next day
with an account of the fear that had
gripped the town.
* * * ♦
“Flathead”: A Sydney daily recently
told of a man made £lBO richer by a
visit to the movies. He watched a news-
reel of the Melbourne Cup, in which he
thought he had made a £25 tote bet on
Royal Tan, The paper stated that he
“only realised that the number on his
tote-tickets was No. 25 (Foxzami’s
number) when he saw the film” and that
“when he got home he found the tickets
still in a suit pocket.” He can tear them
up. Foxzami was No. 5.
* * * *
“Ware”: Tell “B. A. Ker” (B.
19/10/’49) that his juvenile discovery
of the effects of heat on sedimentary rock
marked him no more of a newchum
than was the abo. On the old native
camps near Moralana Creek, in S.A.’s
Flinders Range, there are circular hearths
made of the local slate. Some of those
hearthstones are heat-splintered in a
way that makes one grin to think of the
sensation they must have caused among
the congregated gins, children and dogs.
After all, a bit of red-hot slate is a missile
not even an abo.’s naked hide would
be likely to relish.
* * * *
“Northerner”: There won’t be much
left of “Kali’s” buried treasure (B.
19 /10/’49). The Army has been in pos-
session of East Point for the last 10
years ; and what the boys haven’t found
by this is not worth searching for. I
benefited myself from a small cache;
the Missus raked out a bag from an old
pandanus clump, and found it held a
dozen bottles of Castlemaine Ale. How
long the beer had been hidden in the
pandanus nobody knew, but all the pubs
in Darwin had been run by the Govern-
ment for at least 12 months beforehand,
so it was real treasure-trove.
ONLY A MEANS TO AN END.
“ ‘ “Nationalisation,” or “Socialisation,” or what-
ever terms were applied to the Federal Government’s
policy, were but a means to an end —the welfare
of the people,’ said the Minister for Post-war Re-
construction, Mr. Dedman.”
In the courtroom a burglar was weeping,
He hadn’t a case to defend;
He said, “Though I did it, your Honor,
It was only a means to an end.
“It was only a means to an end —
Ask Dedman to give you an earful —
It’s the latest political trend
If you want to make everyone cheerful;
My wife bought a hat, and they sent me the
bill.
So I studied my purse by the Light on the Hill,
And broke into a grocer's and rifled the till —
It was only a means to an end.”
“Your plea,” said the judge somewhat sternly,
“Is ‘Guilty,’ do 1 apprehend?”
The prisoner answered, “Your Honor,
It was only a means to an end.
“It way only a means to an end —
Don’t let your judicial heart harden;
Your duty should be to commend
Such people as me and Jock Garden —
Now, there’s a philanthropist misunderstood;
He merely was doing the best that he could
To get some poor millers a few bits of wood —■
It way only a means to an end.”
‘‘l greatly admire your submission,”
Said the judge, “but the law can’t unbend.”
4 Whatever you say,” said the burglar,
“It was only a paeans to an end.
“It way only a means to an end,
Though because I’m a lone-wolf marauder
I suppose 1 am fated to spend
Some years as a Government boarder;
But if an M.P. with a class-conscious grudge
And the aid and advice of a renegade judge
Gets caught giving private-bank millions a
nudge,
It’s only a means to an end.’'’
“Why didn’t you cite,” said his Honor,
“The case of our renegade friend?
His precedents must be admitted —
Of course it’s a means to an end!
“Of course it’s a means to an end!
Go free, for I cannot condemn ye;
But first, I must ask you to lend
Your flashlight to me, and your jemmy;
It’s perfectly clear that the new social plan
May soon mean the end of my own type of
man.
So I may as well grab as much means as I
can —
It’s only a means to an end.’''
n.s.w.
S WILLIAM.


“Bo”: A “Labor” election advertise-
ment shows contiguous drawings of a
factory. The first, in 1939, is shown
closed, the chimneys smokeless ; in the
second it is going full blast, the sign
“Men Wanted” is displayed, and trucks
are loading—this is 1949, of course, under
“Labor’s” “full-employment” policy. But
this second picture furnishes a, strange and
intriguing sight; one who is apparently
an employee is running! There' are alter-
native explanations. One is that the
factory employees are members of a
Communist-run union which has ordered
the Soviet’s Stakhanovite system to be
introduced, and the employee depicted is
so eager to achieve the honor of being
the factory’s high-production record-
holder that he is running to get to his
bench to tear into his work. Another
explanation is that, with only half an
hour to go before the 3.45 knock-off
whistle blows, he is “beating the gun” so
as to make certain of his “possy” at the
bar before the mob descend on it to fill in
the extra time which Chifley, McGirr
and Co.’s 40-hour-week gave them in the
interests of their cultural betterment. The
picture might, of course, be slightly
futuristic and anticipating the time when
“Labor” deems it safe to reintroduce
mid-week racing to benefit the industry,
and the gent, in a hurry is the factory
s.-p. merchant, its busiest employee.
4= * * *
“Col M.”: “ And order ‘Wheamo,’
the griddle-toasted cereal with not only
the heart, but the very soul of the
grain” Snarl as I might when I
switch off such items, I would still like to
meet an advertising copy-writer —one of
“My wife here has graciously permitted me to stand as an Independent.
a cult whifh forces its “knee-actions” and
“remote-controls” upon us and sees some
of them survive as part of our speech.
As it is I can only imagine him working
in his smoke-filled room, reaching for his
benzedrine, apprehensive when he looks
across his table at the latest copy from
his rivals who work for “Corno” and
“Golden Crunch,” thumbing his the-
saurus for any superlatives he’s over-
looked, discarding it, and drawing his
praises out of mid-air, additions to the
new vocabulary he is helping to create.
If he lives in America he would have won
his ulcers years ago, and now sit back
collating the brainstorms of a team of
under-copy-writers. For no one man
could, in describing the virtues of a new
mo tor-truck advertised in a recent U.S.
magazine, sire the following string of baby
words. The “job-rated” truck has “shunt-
wound” generators, “pre-fitted” main
bearings, “cyclo-bonded” brake-linings,
and a “safety-located” petrol-tank.
♦ * * *
“Shamuseen”: I helped escort Isabel
Grey on her last journey from the hovel
she had occupied for years at the rear of
the Eulo pub which she had once owned,
and I remember her leaving for Willow-
burn Mental Hospital, not Dunwich (B.
2/11/ ’49), in November, 1924. By a coin-
cidence I had that very day come across
a copy of Steele Rudd’s Annual, in which
an unremembered bard had, with little
undue stretching of poetic licence, versi-
fied the remarkable career of “The
Queen of the Eulorea.” Though I knew
the Eulo pub shortly after the era of the
cheque-busters, the old place still pro-
vided highlights. I once saw a young
fellow down a dozen whiskies and non-
chalantly munch up to fragments the
emptied glasses. It was no fake because,
as he became progressively careless, blood
streamed from his lacerated jaws and lips.
Apparently he thrived on the diet, for
five hours later he scored the winning
Rugby try against a visiting team of city-
slickers from Cunnamulla, population
750.
4c * * *
“Flinders Range”: “Pawang” is out
on a limb of his ancestral tree when he
states (B. 19/10/’49) that “the human eye
was developed... .under conditions of
strongest sunlight.” The human eye is
essentially the eye of a one-time arboreal
animal; it probably evolved while its
possessors lived deep in the dim, green
cat-haunted light of the primeval jungles.
If “Pawang” likes to leave the shelter of
his urban jungle this summer and visit
the slice of inland S.A. from which I
write. I’ll guarantee, while wearing sun-
glasses, to pick out and describe landscape
detail at two miles range that “P.,” with
naked eyes, won’t even see. Why? Be-
cause like the microscope, the human eye
can’t distinguish detail in excess light.
* 4C 4! 4C
“Kini”: That Air Force supply-ship
“B’wick” asked about (B. 2/11/ ’49) was
M.V. Wanaka, now engaged, as before
the war, in the Sydney-Tasmania trade.
She was driven ashore in the cyclone of
1944 on Eden Reef, in Princess Charlotte
Bay, where she lay for about two months
while means of refloating were devised
by Captain Williams and his salvage crew,
assisted by the master. The process was a
laborious one and took 27 days; plates
for sealing the open holds had to be made
in Sydney before pumping could be
started.
4c 4c 4c *
“Narsty Norm”; We’d been great
mates at school, but our paths had not
crossed since then, so we had plenty to
talk about when we bumped by accident
in the city; we slipped into the nearest
lounge for a noggin and a chat. Of
course, I’d heard of his doings from time
to time—brilliant university career, post-
graduate studies in America, some high
academic appointment, then something
very hush-hush and back-room during
the war, and, finally, because psychology
and sociology were his line, a job with
one of the offshoots of U.N.O. “Yes,”
he said, “mass psychology is the secret
of the power of dictators, the Germans,
Italians, Russians. To a lesser extent
the Americans, with their Hollywood
glamor and Jim Crow laws, are suscep-
tible to it, but the Australian with his
more casual acceptance of things is not
likely to fall into a dictatorship so easily,
simply because he is a natural individu-
alist” And just then the eminent
psychologist, myself, all the occupants
of the lounge, indeed, the entire popula-
tion of Australia, paused for five minutes
in silent attention. The Melbourne Cup
broadcast had begun.
# Jfc ♦ ♦
“Warrakoo”: Records? One chap in
N.Q. can claim a unique one. He has
been convicted, reported a case, witnessed
a case and delivered a sentence—all ih the
same police court. Happened like this:
In 1932 he got seven days for rattler-
jumping. Liking the north, he returned
10 years later, during which time he had
acquired his Commission of the Peace,
“But, dear, you told me to pack everything .”
During the war years he sometimes stood-
in for the local reporter, during that time
once had to bear witness in a case, and
when the local magistrate was also return-
irlg-officer, rent-control officer, immigra-
tion-officer and what-have-you, he was
called in for Bench duty for the Monday
drunks. He can’t claim his record
officially. In his rattler-jumping days he
was travelling as George B. Shaw.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Many surnames had their
origin in the occupation of their owner,
but nowadays it is unusual to come
across a rhan whose label fits his calling.
Still, I’ve struck a few. A medico prac-
tising not far from my home bears the
name of Dr. Doctor. A clergyman who
lived in these parts 30 years ago was
the Rev, Godbehere. I’ve known many
Smiths who were not smiths by occupa-
tion, but three were: two blacksmiths
and one tinsmith. A Wheelwright I once
encountered followed that trade, and a
Butcher drove a “cutting cart” around
our district. I’ve seen “A. Carter,
Carrier” painted on a truck ; but a Car-
penter who followed the trade of brick-
laying caused confusion every time he
filled in a timesheet on a new job. As
a boy, intrigued by the fact that my uncle
was a baker by occupation as well as
name, I asked him: “Why are you a
baker when your name’s Baker, Uncle?”
Only after I’d written the word “knead”
a hundred times for spelling it wrongly
did I realise that Uncle had committed
an atrocious pun with his answer: “We
bakers knead the dough.”
♦ * * #
“Exdig”: Most of the New Australians
I have met are pleasant fellows, thank-
ful to be here and eager to fit in ; but
some of them certainly learn the rules
quickly. In our hospital the sister in
charge called to the D.P. orderly to help
lift a heavyweight patient. “Eet is past
seven, two minutes,” he said, looking at
his watch. “At seven I finish. Dot vill
be overtime.” Whether he got it or not
I don’t know,
* * ♦ *
“Old Carp”: The beer-bottle atop the
newly-built chimney (B. 2/11/ ’49) was
certainly a hint to the owner to provide
the purge, but old-time brickies weren’t
always so' mild in their methods with
tight-wads. Sometimes it took this form:
Ibe home-builder found nothing amiss
until the house was occupied. Then,
when fires were lit, the occupants almost
suffocated, were driven outside by dense
smoke. A gander skywards through the
flues revealed nothing; daylight could
be plainly seen. Wet firewood would be
held responsible, so the grates would be
raked out and the fire lit again, with the
same result. Then in desperation the
bricky would be sent for. Indignantly
refuting charges of faulty construction
he would point out that he was losing
pay while there, but for a couple of quid
he would go aloft to see if there was
anything amiss. On descending he’d
snort. “Perfect stack, that. Well above
the ridge, no down-draught. Light her
up again.” The fire would be re-kindled
and the chimney would draw like a
mustard poultice. And what was there
to prevent it after the bricky had dropped
his plumb-bob through the sheet of clear
glass he had built into the flue?
* ♦ * ♦
“Pontius Penwiper”: Bill Hart, who
made his own crude planes and held
Australia’s No. 1 flying licence, told me
that his first plane’s greatest speed was
40 m.p.h. Travelling at that rate the
plane felt every bump as it encountered
airpockets, and the airman’s hand con-
stantly had to be on the “joystick”—the
only control—to keep the plane at its
proper elevation. Hart was with the
Air Force in Palestine in the First War,
but admitted that he could not do any
good in the “modern” planes. With the
automatic controls that were then coming
into their own the man who had trained
himself to be busy every minute manipu-
lating his machine felt uncomfortable.
The same thing happens to many who
reckoned themselves good car-drivers in
earlier days; now gadgets intended to
provide ease and safety merely puzzle
them —and so do the new regulations.
That, rather than any decay Of his mental
faculties, in spite of his 80 years, was
probably the trouble with “C.E.’s”
ancient car-driver (B. 2/11/ ’49) who did
everything wrong. It is the hardest of
all things to unlearn principles of be-
havior that have become a habit.
* * * *
“Kure”: In the 1920’s joke-block
artists found a rich mine in the new toy
“wireless,” with its gigantic horn loud-
speakers, dazzling valves, “cats’-
whiskers” and aerial masts. In Britain
and America history is repeating itself
with television gags. Almost every popu-
lar English or American magazine nowa-
days has at least one television joke ; a
recent “Saturday Evening Post” carried
four. A popular theme is the ultra-
realistic sports “telecast” with the base-
baller driving the ball straight into the
screen, while the wild-man wrestler hurl-
ing his opponent into the laps of an
astonished family of “viewers” is also
very popular. Naturally, the televised
“commercial” has not passed unnoticed.
Current “Esquire” contribution in this
direction shows a “viewer” recoiling from
a hideous close-up demonstrating the
superiority of a certain brand of den-
tures. When television hits Australia our
artists will undoubtedly rise to the occa-
sion.
* * * *
“Percy Pawnticket”: That charac-
teristic in man that causes the Railway
Department to receive a small but fairly
consistent accretion to revenue which it
labels “conscience money” manifests it-
self in many forms. My own general
experience of it was when I discovered
a brand-new box of pins on my table.
My pins certainly had had a habit of dis-
appearing, but, the matter being trivial,
I would hardly have suspected a
systematic theft but for this evidence of
atonement. A friend awakened recently
by strange noises on his doorstep dis-
covered there a puppy chained, to a rail-
ing and bearing a note in printed letters.
It explained that the writer had taken a
fancy to and stolen the dog-of-the-house
seven years before; the dog had died
recently, and ever since the robber had
been smitten with remorse. The puppy
was intended as an atonement. Although
he has welcomed the animal my friend
feels queer about keeping the gift. He
has lived in that house only a few months
and never had any dog stolen from him.
SINKS OF INIQUITY.
“During discussion at the Synod of the C. of E.
Sydney Diocese of a motion that was eventually
carried ‘deprecating dances, card-parties and games
of chance used in connection with Church activities,
a speaker referred to the ‘low origin’ of the waltz.
It was, he said, invented in 1627 by a libertine
named Gault, who five years later was guillotined
for murder.”
It’s logical, of course, to take the view
That because he who centuries ago
Devised the waltz but subsequently slew
Another, his invention must be low.
That’s why it’s notable how very few
Men shave these days. The reason is, you
know,
It’s said that the inventor of the razor
Fyom paths of rectitude would often stray, sir.
To gaze on damsels held in light embrace
And round the dance-floor slowly pirouette
Causes the “pale young curate” to grimace
With pain. In fact, he breaks into a sweat
To think the objects of this deep disgrace
By sin—though they don’t know it —are beset.
That, far from being gentlemen and ladies.
They’re ripe, or, rather, over-ripe, for Hades!
And so it is, too, with the “games of chance” —
Now, in this orbit doesn’t ping-pong fall?
One could end up, say, in an ambulance
Or on a slab through skidding on a ball.
A mishit,V too, may cause an utterance
So reprehensible it would appal.
So let’s prohibit all such recreation
And give old Gloom his rightful domination.
As for the “broads,” who hasn’t heard the tale
Of how old Mrs. Dibbs went to the pack
Through church-hall euchre-parties? Who could
fail
To see the evil wrought in Jill and Jack
When “rummy” left of blighted hopes its trail,
“Five Hundred” put them on the moral rack ?
In “Grab” and “Old Maid” young folk mustn’t
revel,
Such games are machinations of the Devil.
n.s.w.
S. W. K.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Wonk”: Hec. had been a wages man
all his life, demanding big money, and
when old Bill died and left him the farm
Hec. walked out on 14 quid a week to
manage his new property. Five days a
week he tended sheep and chased rabbits,
but the weekends invariably found him
in at the pub. The farm went quickly
down-grade. Smashed gates were no
longer renewed, traps that were lost and
engine parts that were broken were never
replaced, and the farm-stock grew fewer
with every casualty. Hec. worked hard
enough during his five working days; he
planned and pondered, and tended the
sick animals, but the place took on a
neglected and poverty-stricken appear-
ance. “It’s not the work, or the season,”
he confided to old Charlie in the bar
one Saturday, “It’s the high wages nowa-
days that’s the ruin o’ me, out there.
Gripes,” he growled, scrawling his
monicker on a cheque and shoving it over
for Bung to cash, “there’s nothing at all
left over to buy a blinkin’ spare part or
nothin’ for the farm after the wages are
paid these days. It’ll break me, I tell
you.” “Didn’t know y’ had any hands
on,” answered Charlie, staring at the 14
notes Hec. was collecting. “Thought y’
was on y’r own.” “So I am,” came the
explanation, “So I am. But a bloke’s
got to live, hasn’t he? Yair, and make
no mistake, old man,” he concluded
solemnly, “I don’t work f’r nothin’ f’r
anybody.”
* * * *
“S.E.”: Dad was working near the
road when the sedan rolled along and
stopped, “Look here. Dad,” said the big
local, “aren’t you going to join this
association we’ve formed in town? It’s
for all growers. You farmers have
an obligation to join.” “It ain’t
that I mind joinin’,” the old bloke
explained, “but how c’d I get in
t’ the meetin’s? What with no help,
an’ Mum sick half the time, I ain’t
got time t’ turn round.” “I understand
that,” nodded the bloke, “but if you’d
only join, to show you’re interested, it
would help our subscription-list.” Dad
paid up and became a member. Six
"The wife's been at me for weeks to do something about this suite.”
months later he was taken to task by
others of the association. “When a man s
a member, it’s his duty to come to the
meetings,” they told him. “We know
you’re busy, but —don’t you see? —it’s not
fair to sit back and reap the benefits while
all the others do the planning and every-
thing for you. You’re polling on ’em,
see?” Dad saw. By working half the
night he managed to attend some of the
meetings after that, lending his voice and
opinion to the best of his ability. Then
the secretary left, a new one was required,
and Dad was tentatively suggested.
Hastily the old bloke declined office. As
he sat down the president opened up.
“That’s right, that’s right,” he accused
Dad solemnly. “Refuse. You blokes come
in here and talk about what we should do.
You sit there and order the secretary to
do this and do that, and as soon as
you’re asked to lend a hand yourself you
refuse. Now, I ask you, is that a fair
go?”
* * * ♦
“Wippegong”: Give a bloke a bad
name and the abuse follows him to his
own doorstep. The tall apple-box
amongst the pine and wattle was the
obvious place for the eagles to nest, and
there they were: a great cartload of
branches firm in a high fork. The loca-
tion was right for other reasons, too ; the
rabbits were so thick in the sand-ridge
below that the big birds didn’t need to
leave sight of home, and they took heavy
toll of the bunnies. Aloof to the point of
snobbery, they hunted, soared and hunted
again; but could the neighbors let it go
at that? Never! Their approach to
home was usually announced by the
maggies, though sometimes Kelly got in
first with his sneers, and up they went.
The big blokes, after the manner of a
good boxer who won’t be drawn into
hitting an ignorant windbag, sail on,
flicking a dark wing or ducking when the
attack gets too hot; and have to run this
gauntlet each time they want to feed their
own chicks. Away they go again, hustled
off by the lesser fowl, and when in their
own good time they decide to come home
they will be swept upon by a flurry of
vindictive neighbors, none of whom they
ever hurt; and at times including a pair
of whistling eagles, so far carried away
by popular gossip as to join the denuncia-
tion of their own kin —a phenomenon not
restricted to birds. But the avian
aristocrats manage to survive it. A couple
of gawky youngsters are sitting up in the
nest now, and here’s hoping they soon
join their parents above the plains ; for,
despite certain charges held against them,
they are doing a. pretty good job on behalf
of the harassed humans who, lacking
labor and netting, are glad of any help in
holding the accursed rabbit.
* * * *
“Billy T.”; These are unsettled times
at our tavern. The staff was the centre
of last month’s passing strife ; now it’s the
Noisy Boarder. He was coming home
late in the dark and had to enter through
the kitchen —the only entrance at that
hour —but hadn’t noticed that old Ben
had fitted the fly-door with one of those
curved catches that stay back while the
door is open but clip on to it when it
shuts. Noisy pulled the fly-door 'open,
and in reaching for the handle of the
other bumped the rubber roller of the
catch with his thumb, whereupon the
gadget snapped at him and bit him; and
in the course of a smart backward leap
Noisy whacked his funny-bone on the
returning fly-door and wrenched his
ankle on a loose brick. We were getting
the full horror of this disaster during
dinner next day (the meeting with a
bellicose door-stopper being the N.B.’s
nearest approach to a battlefield) and
everyone was bored except the Sour
Boarder, who looked faintly pleased when
Noisy bent down quickly to recover the
table-napkin which had wisely retired
during the dreary discourse, and in so
doing pressed his ear on a hot potato.
He gave the sort of convulsive leap that
you see from a decapitated rooster and
simultaneously knocked his tea oyer and
kicked the S.B. on her favorite corn. I
draw a veil over the next five minutes;
but when the dust settled the Quiet
Boarder, who had been too busy doggedly
gnawing a bit of leathery beef to be
bothered about recitals and recrimina-
tions, saw fit to address the waitress.
“Hey, Emma,” he drawled. “Would you
mind asking the cook if she was trained
at the waxworks?” So now we’re cop-
ping it from the kitchen again.
* * * *
“Kelms”: If it took those Transvaal
termites three years to consume the piece
of pine which “Junius” buried (B.
12/10/’49), then either it was a remark-
ably big piece of pine or the African
“I'll see that you don't sleepwalk tonight.”
termite is a poor eater. In the Sou’-
Westralian locality which I and some
termites are currently infesting together,
a complete pine-tree, felled, wouldn’t last
six months. Yet, to the casual observer,
the termites aren’t really noticeable. The
redwood’s immunity from attack is ex-
plained by the abundance of other food
for which the beast had a preference. I
wouldn’t regard anything with a cellulose
content as being completely resistant to
“white-ants.” I’ve seen jarrah posts
which have remained free from attack
for 40 years, and others riddled in half
that time.
“North”: Don’t know about “Hell-
dud’s” termite theory (B. 19/10/’49), but
research has proved that white-ants will
not attack wood which has not been in-
fected by fungus growth. And, despite
their tunnelling efforts in lead and con-
crete, the termite does not exist which
can digest wood without the assistance
of the microscopic animal life that
swarms in its own tummy.
* * * *
“Curate’s Egg”: A sign of the Torres
Straits native’s sophistication is his
lessening dependence on the mangrove,
which, before the era of store tucker,
sawn-timber and galvanised-iron, was
his cornucopia-cwm-staff-of-life. The
mangrove of the Straits bears little re-
semblance to the stunted, gnarled growth
of southern specimens. Eighteen-foot
poles of the straightness and smoothness
of milled timber are the general rule
and made ideal frames and floors for
the native huts, which were roofed and
walled with pandanus or coconut thatch.
In the “hungry time” the long, cylin-
drical and pointed seed-pods of the tree
were ground to make a sustaining type
of meal or flour. The sap was an effective
anodyne for victims of the spines of that
reef-horror the stonefish.
* * * *
“Shamuseen”; The wild pigs of Cape
York Peninsula fear only a biped, and
it isn’t man ; that is why they are particu-
larly wary when thieving the eggs of the
cassowary. One racking blow with its
spurs capped with horn of steel-toughness
is easily capable of distributing the
porcine entrails over the tropical land-
scape, and Ma Cassowary is a fury in
feathers where the safety of her un-
hatched offspring is concerned. Even the
biggest and most courageous boar will
remember an urgent appointment else-
where when Mrs. Cass is on the rampage.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat knew a bit about
steam-engines and I knew enough to be
able to do what I was told, so we were
given jobs on the steam-pump at Tapalin
for what they called “the big irrigation.”
Mat took his shift on the pump, the
engineer being within call, and I was a
general rouseabout, shooting wood down
to the firing-pit, wheeling away clinker,
watching the channel, carting tucker to
the shift-men and so forth. I heard Mat
and the engineer talking technicalities, so
it was no surprise to me when the cook
gave me a half-dozen eggs and said,
“Here, take these down to your mate an’
get him to give y’ a billy of dry steam.
I want ’em hard-boiled.” Mat eyed the
eggs and said, “You’ll have t’ get Mac
[the engineer] to give y’ the key o’ the
smoke-box.” I went in search of Mac, but
about half-way there it dawned on me,
and I sat under a tree and felt pretty
small, and then I got wild. I went back
to the pump-house and got on the high
bank just above it and yelled. Mat
rushed out and an egg exploded on the
back of his neck. He turned and another
burst on his chest. As he came up the
bank he got the rest. “Put them in y’r
ruddy smoke-box!” I screeched. He
leaned against the wood-pile and his slow
grin spread over his dM. “Gripes,” he
said, “you’ll be a terror when y’ get inter
long pants.” It was two days before I
saw the funny side of it.
♦ * ♦ *
“Lower Tops’!”: At Flinders Island,
Bass Strait, that home of unusual indus-
tries, the first consignment of 100 tons of
gum from the grass-tree is awaiting ship-
ment at Lady Barron wharf. The resin-
ous matter is for use in the manufacture
of varnish, and has been gathered on
bleak, desolate, 22-miles-long Cape Barren
Island —the second-largest island of the
Furneaux Group—by F. Henwood, a
local. His method is to fire the “black-
boys,” after which the gum runs together
and is picked up in lumps on the ground.
About 10 years ago a small quantity of
gum was shipped away, but it was un-
economic to market it at the price, which
lately has doubled. Incidentally, prior
to 1914 resin from the Xanthorrhcea
collected in W.A. and at Kangaroo Island,
S.A., was exported to Germany for the
acid content, which was used in die manu-
facture of high-explosives.
* * * *
“Heresone”; The scene on Heth’s film-
screen (B. 19/10/’49), a pair of penguins
nattering in front of an Eskimo igloo,
is not as realistic as the lady in the
audience imagines. Penguins are not
found north of the equator, nor
Eskimos south of it. ‘
* * * *
“Zake”: That the fowl of the air are
utterly incapable of facially registering
emotion will be contended by all except
perhaps those who have been out with
surveyors. Be it known by the layman
that modern practice entails usually, for
convenience, a bootlace tied to the end
of the surveyor’s measure. As this is
being dragged through the grass the sharp
eyes of the kookaburra or Willy Wagtail
sight it and promptly dive on what might
be either an emaciated snake or a speedy
and rather long worm, according to how
they nut it out. But if the look that
either bird gives as he lays back in the
breeches and hauls on the “worm” while
being pulled through the grass isn’t one
of sheer astonishment, it’s so close to it
you wouldn’t tell the difference.
* * * *
“Rooster”: An interesting point about
“Arachne’s” aerial spiders (B. 31/8/’49)
is the manner in which they take off.
Climbing to the top of a bush or small
sapling they poise themselves on the edges
of leaves. From the spinnerets they
quickly eject streams of liquid silk, which
solidify rapidly, the free ends amalgamat-
ing in such a way as to form tiny balloons.
The silken strands are then manipulated
by the insect, intertwining to form an
aerial cable. Then it awaits a favorable
current of air and literally jumps into
space, and is thus ballooned along with
the speed of the breeze. The Australian
species travel relatively short distances
compared with some others. It was
Charles Darwin who first recorded the
long-distance flight of a red species. They
covered the rigging of the Beagle when
that ship was about 100 miles from the
nearest point of land—a record feat for
such a tiny aeronaut.
LEMON-SCENTED SPOTTED-GUM.
“Lemon-scented spotted-gum!”
Merrily the four words come;
And with its name before my eye,
Here, in the gardens, so sing I;
Lemon-scented spotted-gum!
Hear the rhythm like a drum,
As now upon the green I sing,
With all the bright words echoing.
Lemon-scented spotted-gum!
Full and gay and frolicsome —
Why, in imagination’s glance,
I see the clean limbs skip and dance.
Lemon-scented spotted-gum!
Drunken bees make merry hum
While I, upon this grassy plot,
Sing loud the happy name it’s got.
VICTORIA.
JAMES HACKSTON.


Give jour dependants
Whether your Estate is large or small, you can give your
dependants the added security of an experienced, far-seeing and
efficient trustee. Choose the Permanent Trustee Company and you
bring to the management of your affairs a number of highly
qualified individuals, specialists in taxation, investments, property
values, and all the complexities of Estate administration.
Why not call and discuss this matter further with one of our
Executive Officers? Or write for free booklet, “Trust Estates and
Their Management.”
mli
this added Security
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman . . .. F. H. Way, Vice-Chairman
. . . Cecil H. Doyle . . . F. W. Hixson, 0.8. E., V.D.
. . . G. Moncrieff Barron, 0.8. E., M.B.Ch.M., F.R.A.C.S.
J. R. Faviell.
Manager: N. L. Shaw
Asst. Manager: C. N. P. Whittle. Sub Manager: S. U. White
Secretary : F. R. Garland. Pastoral Inspector: Hugh Stewart
23-25 O'CONNELL STREET
d
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALES
PT.11c.15
“Old-timer”: Kelly rode into Euston
one Saturday afternoon, put his horse up,
and proceeded about his business. That
done, he joined the mob in Medley’s bar,
and by tea-time was fairly elevated. When
he went into the dining-room for tea the
waitress asked, “You stopping tonight,
Mr. Kelly?” “Yair,” he said. “I’ll be in
number ten, I suppose.” She nodded.
It was a regular thing for Kelly to sleep
in No. 10. There was a fair amount of
drinking that night, and when Kelly, with
some confused notion of seeing to his
horse, went out and the night air hit him,
he folded up in the loosebox and went to
sleep. About midnight Squeaker Wallis
arrived, drunk and demanding shelter.
Medley got out and fumbled round, to
find the place full. Wallis was offered a
couch in the billiard-room. He com-
plained loudly, but was about to put up
with it when Medley thought of some-
thing, looked in No. 10, found it empty
and put Wallis in there. Peace descended
on the pubbery. About 3 a.m. Kelly
awoke and decided to go to bed. He
couldn’t find his matches, but knew the
way well enough and got to No. 10.
There he peeled off and turned in, still
fuzzy, and went to sleep, unaware of the
form against the wall. Wallis, disturbed,
awoke and looked about him. A faint
ray of moonlight showed four feet stick-
ing out the end of the bunk. Wallis
pondered this, then got out, wavered to
the foot of the bed, peered closely at
Kelly’s feet and muttered, “ ’Sh right.
Theresh ory ‘two. Thought I shaw four.
Musht be drunk.” And he got happily
back into bed.
* * * *
“Solitude”: They were an enormous
pair of horns, wide, nicely balanced and
with an even lift at the ends, and I came
in to find Seventyfiver fitting them on the
wall just inside the hut. “Got the idea
from a place down-country,” he informed
me. “Do t’ hang our hats on.” “What’s
wrong with hanging ’em on the floor, or
chucking ’em on the chaff, like we’ve
always done?” “Nothin’,” he scowled,
“but . . . Aw, well, it don’t hurt t’ put in
a few improvements now ’n’ then. Im-
provements, Sol,” he remarked weightily,
“make a bloke see things sort o’ diff’rent.”
After some failures that eventually broke
Blue’s faith in the hut as a refuge the
old bloke got the horns tethered to the
wall with a strip of leather, pointing out
when he did that the tilt wouldn’t matter,
as we could always use the horn that was
uppermost at the moment. It was after
dark when we returned the next night,
and I lingered outside collecting sticks.
Seventyfiver opened the door, there was a
violent curse, followed by what sounded
like a wrestling-match with a loud and
lurid commentary. Then out through the
doorway came a long ungainly object that
crashed against the hitching-stump. The
old coot’s lid is back on the chaff again
now, and I’m giving his black-eye a day
or two to open up before inquiring if his
improvements are still making him see
things sort o’ different.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Were the Australian
sparrow a songster I’ll warrant his’matin
would incorporate that foolish ditty, “I’m
my own grandpa.” And in his case the
theme would be true, for I can’t think of
anything that could be more thoroughly
inbred. Every spag he sees is his blood
relation —which may be the reason he is
for ever fighting with his own kind. His
more glamorous compatriots, such as
goldfinches, have had new blood-lines
introduced by escaped importations, but
nobody has imported spadgers since the
“first few” were brought out. Long
migratory flights are not in his line, so,
short of stowing-away on a ship, no new-
chum sparrow could have brought a
blood-change to the enormous, turbulent
family. Yet for size, appearance, virility
and general all-round toughness the
Aussie spag is the equal of his species the
world over. The natural inference is that
inbreeding does not adversely affect
birds. But I’m not so sure. In the boy’s
“Yes, I know—but I settled that blowfly .”
aviary there were two pairs of zebra-
finches and five other birds. When the
novelty wore off the birds were neglected
—except feeding and watering. The
zebras rpated and nested ; their offspring
followed suit. Now there are dozens of
zebra-finches in the aviary—but what
zebra-finches! More than half the
number appear to have the avian
equivalent of the mange. Caused by
neglect, redmite, etc.? Perhaps you’re
right, but why haven’t the three hen red-
heads caught the complaint? And why
are the two cock diamond-sparrows still
so splendidly feathered? No; I still
blame inbreeding for the zebras’ decline
—redmite could not cause crossed beaks,
anyway.
* * * *
“C.A.”: The boss received a call
down-country and had to leave the new-
chums in charge. “Main thing is to look
after the sheep,” he instructed them.
“I’ve lost several lately, and they’ve been
chewed about when I came on them.
Wouldn’t be surprised if it’s a dog doin’
it; so keep a lookout, and, if y’ see one,
shoot first and inquire who he belongs
to after.” For several days Stan and
Billy found nothing suspicious, despite
their best sleuthing ; then one morning
Stan rolled out of bunk, took a look
round the scenery and yelled to Billy.
“Hey, quick! There’s something after
the sheep,” he called. “See ’em all run-
ning on the ridge there?” “Something’s
frightened ’em.” “Yair, an’ it’s a dog.
See him? A black mong. after ’em at
the back there. Hand us that big rifle,
quick. Good job I done plenty o’
shootin’ before I come here. Watch me
hit the brute from here.” Stan sighted
carefully, there was a shattering roar and
the black animal collapsed in his tracks,
That night Stan suddenly dropped the
letter he was reading. “Gosh, it’s from
the boss,” he said. “Says he’ll be
home first thing in the morning. Gripes,
Billy, come ’n’ give us a hand, will y’?
j’ll have to go up and bury that black
i am b I shot this morning.”
*** • H
“Salmon Gums”: “B. A. Ker’s” “pud-
ding-grass” (B. 12/10/’49) seems to re-
semble the “nobby-grass” that plagues
Perth’s lawns and playing-fields. It is
hard to get out of a lawn, but a neigh-
bor of mine has done so, and claims that
the job was “comparatively” simple. His
lawn was not badly infested, and he con-
centrated on the few plants that were
there and prevented them from flowering.
It was a three-year job. He thinks that
.., . ~ a A _ ..
without the flower and the foliage the
plant wa§ unable ure the food
with which to build its bulbs. Its an
interesting theory, and Id like to see it
applied to, say, the potato Plant food
is manufactured, or digested, by means
of the chlorophyl in the The
plant uses the chlorophyl and solar
energy to build up carbon-dioxide into
sugar and starch. Thus is the tuber de-
rived from the leaves, to which it later
as a new seed, returns its food. And
what part, in producing the tubers, does
the potato-flower play? The best potato
crops I’ve grown were heavy-flowering.
* * * *
“G’roper”; I wonder if old Charlie s
cockies (B. 14/9/’49) had any Ewebank
nails in those boxes that so fluffed him.
The common wire nail with a dumped
head is really very modern. I once over-
hauled the stock of a ’Groper iron-
mongery that possibly dated back nearly
tp the time of Governor Stirling. The
nails were all Ewebanks. A century ago
nails were punched one at a time out of
thin sheets of wrought iron. They were
flat-sided, tapered, with a sort of tag
left on at the wide end as a head. Even
60 years ago no builder would think of
nailing down a Baltic-pine floor other
than with Ewebanks. Their virtue was
that with four burred edges they never
worked up, a common vice of the wire
nail. The springhead for roofing-iron
also is tolerably modern. Early iron
roofs were fastened first with a screw
and a washer. Then somebody suggested
lead washers as more watertight. Then
came lead-capped nails, 20 to the pound.
Then a Melbourne man with a brain in-
vented the springhead. In my old W.A.
warehouse were cases of pre-Nettlefold
screws, with the orthodox threading, but
parallel the whole length, like the still-
used coach-screw. Thus it was neces-
sary in those days to bore a hole slightly
smaller than the screw and then screw it
in. Nettlefold achieved the tapered screw
that cut its own way in.
* * * *
“Tarbush”: Other casuarinas besides
the bulloak are soil pioneers (B.
19/10/’49). In the Adelaide hills you can
pick a sterile, stony patch of hillside at
a range of miles merely by looking for
the dark-green sheoak foliage among
the thickly-clustering gum scrub. On the
flats a patch of sheoak among the euca-
lypts and wattles means poor white sand.
In the Flinders Ranges, in the dry end of
the same State, another of the tribe, the
black-oak, populates almost precipitous
slopes of sun-blasted rock. It thrives in
spots where the more effete malices and
native pine can’t get a foothold until the
oak has fertilised the barren screes for a
few centuries,
* * * *
“Bo”: Joe stopped his mail-car as he
heard the yell from old Tim-the-hatter’s
shack by the bend. Going over, he saw
Tim struggling with his door. “Give us
a hand, will y’, Joe?” asked the hatter.
“I bin alterin’ it, an’ it’s a bit of a job
gettin’ it back on.” The mailman gazed
quizzically at the portal, then scratched
his head. “But y’ got the screws in the
wrong place, Tim,” he said. “They
should be on the side.” “They was on
the side before,” replied the old hatter.
“That’s why I’ve altered ’em and put
’em up to the top.” “But, dammit,” ex-
claimed Joe. “If y’ swing it this way
you’ll have to bend down and lift it up
every time y’ want to walk in or put
and” “That’s just it,” broke in Tim
evenly. “I bin readin’ in a magazine
where the yooman frame needs reg’lar
exercise, an’ that bendin’ to touch the
toes is as good as any. Well, havin’ the
door put this way’ll give me the exercise,
won’t it?”
* * * *
“Rooster”: Foraging about in his
garden, a Geelong West (Vic.) schoolboy
came across a slug never before seen in
Victoria, and, so far as can be ascertained,
in Australia. A fat little creature, with
tapered tail and slender head, it is dis-
tinguished easily by the small oval shell
perched like a flat button on the hinder
curve of the body. The National
Melbourne, identified it as be-
longing to an English and European
species, Testacella haliotidea. It is sur-
mised that it was introduced in the egg
stage with plants or ship-ballast. The
species is carnivorous, their special diet
being earthworms. It looks like constitut-
ing yet another imported headache for
the cocky.
* * * ♦
“Farback”: “Betcha” (B. 19/10/’49)
missed one neat method of ovine felo de
se. I’ve seen a lamb skewered neatly
from brisket to back by a mulga stake
on which the juvenile acrobat had
landed while practising high jumps.
* * * *
“Nakh”; J. A. Tubb, North Borneo’s
fisheries director, was recently reported
as having seen a 3ft. snake fly 250 ft.
from one tree to another, “wriggling
leisurely as though swimming quietly on
the placid surface of a lake.” The whisky
is good and plentiful in N. 8., but there
is no reason to suppose the director
hallucinated his flying reptile. The “fly-
ing” snake of Borneo carries a flattened
under-surface which enables it to glide
astonishingly long distances, like the
Australian flying squirrel.
YOUR LEAD, PARTNER!
I’ve- known ’em play Casino at Casino,
And in a Cardwell card-game I have sat;
But there’s no one pegging Keno
In the township of Merino,
And not much Baccarat at Ballarat.
Though Eucla can supply a four at Euchre,
At Bbulia they reckon Boule is crook;
But the blokes have fair gone Bridgy
AH along the Murrumbidgee,
And Nappish at Naringaningalook.
At Lambing Flat they’ll gamble at Lambskinnet
(More fashionably known as Lansquenet);
But if you suggested Picquet
You’d be on a sticky wicket —
At Picton not a soul knows how to play!
So, till the Dealer finishes your Contract,
And you are up to Auction on the block—
When by picture-cards and labor
You’ve been Beggaring Your Neighbor
(Some call it “Strip Jack Naked”) till you’re
chock,
Don’t let a mere coincidence mislead you,
And, though there’s often something in a name,
Before you plan your menu
Choose a practicable venue,
And go where you can get a friendly game.
ENGLAND.
GUY INNES.


Australia 9 s Oldest
fd
Trustee Company
Specially constituted by Act of Parliament in 1878, The
Trustees, Executors and Agency Co. Ltd., is the oldest
Trustee Company in Australia.
L 0 It is specially equipped to act in all trust and agency
capacities.
• Provides ample security for performance of trusts, and
prompt, efficient and economical service as executor,
trustee, administrator or agency.
• Has under its care some of the most notable trusts in
Australia.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Company Ltd.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); Sir Lennon
Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.; G. D. Young;
W. Sydney Jones; J. Cuming Stewart.
General Manager: W, Sydney Jones.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
and 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £966,706.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Harold J. Ritchie, M. 8., Ch.M., F.E.A.C.P. (Chairman);
John Cadwallader; Sir Leslie Morshead, K.C.8., K.8.E.,
C.M.G., D. 5.0.; David Wilson, M.A., LL.B., K.C.; Sir Lennon
Raws, C.B.E. N.S.W. Manager: C. B. R. Cowdery.
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Ltd.
t Dividends
Net Pref., To Re- Re-
June, Profit. 6 p.e. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£> £/ £,£,£>
'4O 273,925 60,000 10.7 p.c.=172,000 41,925 454,135
’4l 242,105 60,000 9.4 „ „ 208,000 428,240
’42 243,554 60,000 7.3 „ „ 162,000 21,554 449,794
Special reserve disappears, £25,000 . • 424,794
’43 254,069 60,000 7.5 p.c.=165,000 28,569 453,363
Patent rights reduced, £1,027 .. 454,390
’44 257,487 60,000 7.3 p.c.=162,000 35,487 489,877
’45 268,775 60,000 7.3 „ „ 162,000 36,775 526,652
’46 227,312 60,000 7.3 „ „ 162,000 5,312 531,964
Debenture exes., £28,510 .. .. 503,454
’47 269,889 60,000 7.3 p.c.=162,000 47,889 551,343
Contingencies res. disclosed, £140,000.. 691,343
Less new patents, £11,346 .. .. 679,997
’4B 283,763 60,000 7.3 p.c.=162,000 61,763 741,760
Share premiums, £68,000 .. .. 809,760
’49 269,147 60,000 7.3 p.c.=177,000 22,147 831,907
This is the big operating co. that supplies
Australia with most of its paper-board
and kraft requirements, which have grown
apace since the war. And, if American
experience is any guide, there is plenty
of room for further expansion, to meet
which the co. has a large programme of
development in hand.
Issued capital at June 30 was
£5,280,000, of which £3,616,000, which
includes £1,000,000 of 6 p.c. pref.
money, had been gathered. In front
of that lot is an issue of £3,250,000 of
debentures, costing on the average 3.91
p.c., and of which there was still £750,000
to come when the books closed. Direct
public interest is confined to the prefs.
and debentures. The ords., in which the
equity interest lies, are now all held by
Australasian Paper and Pulp, which, a
year or so ago, took over the interest of
the other holding co. (Cumberland Paper
Board Mills, now in liquidation) on the
basis of a satisfactory exchange and
purchase of scrip.
The declared aim of the operating co.
has long been to send out enough to
enable A.P. and P. to pay an all-round
8 p.c. on its capital. This was done for
the decade to 1941. Since then war and
post-war conditions, principally controlled
selling-prices and rising costs, have kept
the operating co.’s ord. div. at a steady
7.3 p.c,, which means that A.P, and P.
has had to keep its own ord. div. at 6 p.c.
And, with things as they are, it is difficult
to say when better might be expected.
However, benefits to those on the hold-
ing co.’s register have come by way of
new share-issues. Last term A.P. and P.
took up 2,080,000 new £1 ords. in the
operating co. at a premium of ss. each.
To do this it issued 2,079,650 of its own
£1 ords., also at a premium of ss. each.
That lifted its issued capital to £4,553,409
in 437,036 8 p.c. cum. prefs. and
4,115,373 ords. There was still £1,247,999
of capital and £302,771 of share
premiums to come on the new issue when
the books closed. When all the money is
in, the pref. div, and 6 p.c. to the ords.
will call for £281,885, or £82,716 more
profit than the operating co. claimed last
term, after deducting its own pref. re-
quirements ; and that ought to be easily
within reach when all the new debenture,
share and other money becomes operative.
For the year to June 30 last the operat-
ing co.’s five mills —Maryvale, Melbourne,
Fairfield and Broadford (Vic.) and Botany
(N.S.W.) —turned out 41,343 tons (up
1910 tons) of woodpulp and 130,206 tons
(up 1726 tons) of papers and board. Turn-
over increased by 14.9 p.c. (£940,037),
reaching £7,922,039. Still, there was a
contraction of £24,616 in disclosed net
earnings (£259,147). That was due appar-
ently to “heavy writing-down” of stock
(amount not stated) to offset a fall in the
price of imported pulp, the aim being to
strengthen the co.’s competitive position
promptly and hold the local market. A
liberal £420,182 (up £50,289) was set aside
for depreciation and £195,200 (down
£4750) for taxation. The £259,147 covered
the pref. div. and 8.2 p.c. on average ord.
capital as against 10*1, 9.5, 7.6 and 9 p.c.
back to 1945. The div. was kept at 7.3 p.c.
The year’s profit, plus debenture interest,
was 5.3 p.c. on debenture and average
share capital and reserves combined; so
the debentures are earning a lot more than
their keep.
The co.’s all-round programme of ex-
pansion, which includes erection of a
new mill at Petrie, about 17 miles north
of Brisbane, aims to lift output of paper
and board to 202,000 tons p.a. And it
will eventually call for “further sub-
slantial expansion of the capital struc-
ture.” But uncertainties concerning
deliveries and construction make it im-
possible to forecast exactly when further
issues of shares or debentures will be
made, the chairman says.
In addition to the £734,000 of fresh
share (£416,000) and debenture (£250,000)
capital and share premiums (£68,000)
gathered last term, the co. went to its
bankers and others for a further £617,282
net. The lot went mainly into freeholds
and plant (up £1,091,416), stocks (up
£178,340) and shareholdings (up £51,643):
t, .. ~ - 19 „ 38 - 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital— £ £ £ £
Pref. .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Ord. .. 1,600,000 2,200,000 2,200,000 2,610,000
Debentures 2,250,000 2,250,000 2,500,000
Mortgages 32,468 60,598 140,392
Loans, etc. 33,937 203,056 221,278 764 336
Other cr’tors 119,199 384,813 454,182 448,612
Tax reserve 113,197 240,951 440,896 297,771
Freehold and
plant .. 1,708,127 2,315,864 2,881,407 3,972.823
Shares other
cos. ~ 23,242 115,344 199,212 250,855
Stock . . 990,950 1,615,380 2,857,726 3,036,066
Book debts 368,314 1,022,789 1,506,673 1,467,564
Cash, etc.. 302,302 2,071,973 85,983 33,709
More-or-less liquids exceeded outside
liabilities (including tax provision and the
final div.) by £3,011,083. And there was
still £3,066,000 to come from the new
share and debenture issues already
referred to —the last of this money is due
about end 1950.
The market, which likes the way the
business is shaping and is prepared to
wait for its benefits, prices the holding
co.’s f.-p. pound ords. at 335. 3d., giving
a return of 3.6 p.c. on a 6 p.c. div, basis,
and the prefs. at 365. 6d. to yield 4.4 p.c.
Net tangible cover (book-value) is £l3
prefs. and 255. 6d. ords. The operating
co.’s own well-protected 6 p.c. prefs. at
295. 6d. yield 4 p.c.
Burlington Mills (Australasia), Ltd.
1 Dividends —^
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.
£ p.c. p.c. £ £
1945 .. 13 t 757 5 5,421 12,813
1946 . . 38,688 7$ 23,516 27,985
Share-issue expenses, £4167 .. 23,818
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 18,818
1947 ..101,751 8 31,500 89,069
Share-issue expenses, £21,186 .. 67,883
Goodwill purchased, £6OOO .. .. 61,883
1948 ~ 98,314 8 53,361 106,836
1949 . . 92,012 4J 8 84,715 114,133
Reserves are shown above after deducting intangible
assets (now £10,000).
Originally it was Tapitex Pty., which was
set on its feet by R. J. Webster and H.
Van de Velde (of Bradford Cotton and
Felt and Textiles respectively) and their
friends, to manufacture tapestries and
other furnishing fabrics. The name was
changed to the present title in 1944, when
the Burlington Mill people in U.S. were
induced to come in and activities were
extended to large-scale production of
rayon fabrics—previously Australian sup-
plies of this type of cloth had all been
imported. The munition factory at
Rutherford (N.S.W.), put up by the Gov-
ernment during the war, was leased for
the purpose, and issued capital shot up
to £350,000, half of which was taken by
the U.S. people, mainly in payment for
plant.
Considering the difficulties inseparable
from establishment of a large new in-
dustry of this kind, the co. has put up
a very creditable performance. On the
technical side, development, including the
training of local staff, has been in the
hands of experts from the U.S. mills,
and the emphasis has been upon quality
from the start.
A ready and sheltered market
awaited the products, and, as plant
became available, output, turnover
and net earnings responded. To help
finance expansion ord. capital was
doubled by the issue of 350,000 new £1
shares at par in July, 1946, and a half-
miliion of 4| p.c. prefs. were offered and
oversubscribed just before the close of
accounts in 1948. The ords. came into
the picture with 5 p.c. in 1945, followed
by p.c. and then 8 p.c. for the three
years to the close of last accounts, when
shareholders could see the whole of their
capital intact and £114,133 besides.
Last term the co. was “forced to con-
tend with a type of competition which
no other rayon manufacturer in any other
part of the world has had to contend
with,” the chairman says. The co. buys
the woollen and cotton yarns for its
tapestry products locally, but the rayon
yarn has to be imported, mainly from
English and continental sources —the
dollar problem stands in the way of high-
grade yams coming from U.S, Although
the co. operates on a duty-free
basis, and yam has recently come
forward in good volume, its finished
products have lately met with severe
competition, on a price basis, from
similar imported lines. That was partly
because U.K, and continental rayon-
yarn manufacturers sell at higher prices
in their export than in their home markets
and partly because withdrawal of Gov-
ernment subsidies on locally consumed
yarns bumped up selling-prices of the
finished articles. At the same time the
40-hour week, wage-lifts, electric-power
blackouts, floods in the Hunter Valley, and
dislocation caused by the mischievous coal
strike at the end of the term combined to
bump up operating and all other costs.
So, although substantial additions had
been made to plant during the year, there
was an abrupt contraction of £54,098 in
the profit figure, before providing for
depreciation and taxation;
1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Profit before de-
preciation and
tax .. .. £51,287 £200,021 £201,334 £147,236
Less —
Depreciation 12,899 60,506 59,020 50,524
Tax .. 37,764 44,000 4,700
Net profit .. 38,688 101,751 98,314 92,012
Thanks mainly to drop of £39,300 in the
allowance for taxation —special initial de-
preciation was claimed for this purpose
but was not charged in the p. and 1.
account —the final net result was only
£6302 lighter at £92,012. That was
enough to pay the pref. div. and show
9 p.c. on average ord, capital as against
14.7, 25.8 and 12.3 p.c. for the three pre-
ceding terms.
The year’s net additions to plant totalled
£289,063 and to stocks £291,644. To meet
this and other outlay £494,711 was added
to the overdraft;
Paid capital— 1946. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Ordinary . . £350,000 £560,523 £700,000 £700,000
Preference . . 500,000 500,000
Overdraft .. 285,835 541,533 350,260 844,971
Creditors .. 167,443 88,862 78,725 56,760
Tax provision 7,336 72,100 44,716 10,395
Staff fund .. —• 5,000 5,000
Leasehold, etc. 55,535 88,957 67,810 71,215
Plant .. 294,197 437,620 537,312 826,375
Plant construc-
tion ~ 139,645 48,981 70,121 41,608
Parts and stores 28,012 86,638 65,928 77,353
Stocks .. 199,407 597,027 809,378 1,101,022
Debtors .. 145,038 139,503 260,515 141,787
Investments .. 12,500 27,501 40,001
Cash . . . . 282 361 333 426
Intangible assets 3,073 15,000 10,000
The evaporation of subsidies helped to
bump up the stocks figure, which appears at
the lower of cost or market value. When
the books closed there was 13s, 9d. of
outside money at work in the business for
every pound belonging to shareholders.
More-or-less liquids exceeded outside
liabilities (including tax provision, the
staff fund and final div.) by £310,062.
The current year’s results will depend
largely upon what happens in connection
with overseas competition, against the
unfair nature of which this infant Aus-
tralian industry deserves more protection
than it at present enjoys. Given equal
opportunities, tfie management is con-
fident the co. can compete successfully
with outsiders, both in respect of quality
and price. The outlook is expected to
improve considerably when Courtaulds 1
big new £7,000,000 rayon-tyre and
-textile yarn factories, first of which is
to go up at Tomago, near Newcastle,
come into production, which might be a
couple of years or more yet.
The price of the f.-p. pound ords.,
which reached 455; early in 1949, dropped
to 31s. 6d. at the end of October, but had
strengthened to 335. 6d. last weekend. The
return at 335. 6d. is 4,7 p.c. on an 8 p.c.
div. basis. The prefs. stand at par, or
thereabouts. Net tangible cover is 525.
7d. prefs. and 235. 3d. ords,
Australian Cash Orders, Ltd. (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.’
& £, £> &
1945.. 17,309 8 p.c. = 16,854 455 81,809
1946.. 20,460 10 „ „ 20,849 80,709
1947.. 20,246 10 „ „ 20,643 80,312
1948.. 26,379 12$ „ „ 25,860 519 80,831
From inner reserves, £22,183 .. 103,104
1949.. 35,577 17*p.c.= 36,489 102,152
* Excludes tax, depreciation, etc., reserve (now
£68,922), and subject to goodwill (£112,087).
This co. began abput 29 years ago, when
Buckinghams, the drapers, in Oxford-
street, handed over their cash-order busi-
ness to some of their employees. The
business expanded rapidly and was a
money-spinner during the booming
1920’5, £133,609 of the £211,777 of paid
capital is bonus scrip, the last £93,367
of which was handed out in 1927, good-
will being written up by that amount for
the purpose, thus raising intangibles to
£112,087. Thereupon the dividend
dropped from 35 p.c. to 15 p.c., and for
the five slump years to 1934 the rate
ranged from ll\ p.c. to 2 p.c., the aver-
age being 7.2 p.c., followed by an average
of 14.2 p.c. for the decade'to 1944, from
which point the table picks up the story.
Since the war conditions have been
ideal for vendors of short-term credit,
which means both expanding turnover and
a favorable experience in connection with
bad debts. The co. doesn’t broadcast
its turnover, but the value of cash-orders
issued in N. S. Wales for the year
to June 30 last increased by 10 p.c. (22
p.c. in the previous year), reaching £2.98
million, which isn’t much above the
1939 figure—high levels of employment
and wages have tended to restrict demand
for this type of credit.
So, despite a sharp rise in costs, the
board was able to write net earnings
£9198 stronger at £35,577, which was
17.1 p.c. on capital as against 12.7, 9.6,
9.7 and 8.2 p.c. back to 1945. The div.
was lifted from 12£ p.c. to 15 p.c., and a
2£ p.c. bonus was added, making 17£
p.c. for the year. And the outlook was
considered good enough to transfer
£22,183 from the provision for bad debts
to general reserves, now £9935 short of
intangibles (£112,087). In addition there
is £68,922 (down £24,061) earmarked as
provision for taxation, depreciation, bad
debts, etc., some of which might still be
genuine profit.
The co.’s Pitt-street (Sydney) property,
remodelling of which is nearing com-
pletion, was non-revenue-producing dur-
ing the year, and no dividends were
received from either of the two Brisbane
subsidiaries. Both those offshoots are
reported to be showing “promise”—they
are Rodwell Cash Order Pty., bought a
couple of years ago, and Australian Home
Furnishers Pty., which was set up during
the last term.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances: 1
1945. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital .. .. £210,777 £211,777 £211,777
Overdraft .. .. 52,864
Sundry creditors .. 33,584 68,567 76,343
Contingencies reserve* 53,868 92,983 68,922
Freeholds .. .. 72,287 72,286 103,007
Equipment .. .. 8,971 9,147 11,647
Shares in subsidiaries .. 4,934 10,434
Stocks 11,076 29,828 33,154
Debtors, etc 129,653 220,149 261,805
Cash, etc 53,677 21,271 781
Goodwill .. . . 112,087 112,087 112,087
* Includes provision for taxation, depreciation and
bad debts.
To meet the year’s net additions of


DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
The “ Curvilinear ” Concentrating Table
Send for
Bulletin
and Price
f
Simple
and
Reliable
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
demonstration. Can also quote for all classes of mining machinery,
including stamp batteries, amalgamating tables, magnetic ore
separators, classifiers, agitators, everlasting valves, water- and oil-
fillers, Rendrock and all other explosives and accessories. Electric
motors and Ellison switch gear.
Guthridge Pty. Limited,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers ,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Caraperdown, Sydney, N.S.W.
BANK
OF
AUSTRALASIA
ESTABLISHED
1835
■
fR
9.
la 35
THE PROGRESS OP A BANK IS LARGELY
DEPENDENT ON ITS ABILITY TO SERVE THE
public, the BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
HAS A PROUD RECORD EXTENDING OVER
Jl4 YEARS WHICH HAS FORMED A SOLID
FOUNDATION FOR THE MODERN BANKING
SERVICE IT IS ABLE TO OFFER TODAY.
BRANCHES THROUGHOUT
AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND
AND IN LONDON
AGENTS AND CORRESPONDENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
\\\\
I
n
Sr
y
(Bn
»
A
A
It’s new ! A streamlined Chrome Set that you’ll
delight to use and be proud to own. The automatic
shaving angle and Superkeen “Gem” Blades of sur-
gical steel, give cool, clean, drag-free shaves that
keep you neat and avoid 5 o’clock shadow.
New “GEM” de luxe Chrome Sets
*
★
“Gem” Chromium Plated Streamline Model in handsome
case of Ivory Plastic with 5 “Gem” double-life Blades. 20/-.
Also new Chrome Strop Outfit with automatic stropper, as
illustrated, complete with 8 Blades in Ivory Plastic Gift
Case. 35/-,
“Gem” Double-life Blades, 5 for 1/9. Sold Everywhere.
Streamlined Chrome Sets
£30,721 to freeholds (mainly on
account of the remodelling re-
ferred to) and • £41,646 to
debtors’ balances, etc,, the co.
went to its bankers for £52,864
and drew upon cash, etc., for
£20,490. Leaving contingency
reserves and shares in sub-
sidiaries out of the reckoning,
the more-or-less liquid surplus
(£166,533) was £36,148 less than
at the previous balance.
Since the close of accounts
25,000 new B shares have been
issued at par and called to Is.
each —no further calls are an-
ticipated in the near future —
and the remaining 15s. on 19,315
contributing B shares has been
got in. That lifted paid capital
to £227,513, on which 17£ p.c.
would call for £4237 more
profit than was claimed last
term.
Though this might not prove
out of reach, the low net tangible
backing for capital detracts
from the security aspect of the
scrip as an investment. The
shares are tightly held ; last sales
of the B’s, to which public in-
terest is confined, was at 435. 6d.,
at which figure the return would
be 7.9 p.c. so long as the \l\
p.c. distribution continues, or
6.9 p.c. on a 15 p.c. div. basis.
Excluding reserves for con-
tingencies, net tangible cover is
19s. Id. per pound of paid
capital.
Wentworth Hotel (Sydney)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends, serves, serves.
£ p.c. £ £ £
1940.. 5,197 5 2,500 2,697 12,568
1941.. 5,039 8 4,000 1,039 13,607
1942.. 6,611 10 5,000 1,611 15,218
1943.. 9,735 10 5,000 4,735 19,953
From inner reserves, £425 . . 20.378
1944.. 10,267 10 5,000 5,267 25,645
1945.. 9,561 10 5,000 4,561 30,206
1946.. 11,805 10 5,000 6,805 37,011
1947.. 12,232 10 5,000 7,232 44,243
From tax provision, £2302 .. 46,545
1948.. 10,243 10 5,000 5,243 51,788
1949.. 12,322 12J 6,250 6,072 57,860
The Wentworth is giving a very
good account of itself these days,
and, subject to economic de-
velopments, looks like continu-
ing to do so. On a comparatively
small capital the management
has made the hotel (nearly 200
bedrooms) on the slopes of
Church Hill, near the heart of
the city, almost as much talked
about as some of its big com-
petitors.
The co. ran into a patch of
heavy weather about 20 years
ago, when losses totalling
£30,245 showed up for the seven
years to 1934, due partly to
work in connection with the city
railway and partly to slump.
Since then regular and expand-
ing profits have been earned,
thanks to pre-war additions to
the residential section, popu-
larity of the ballroom and
dining-room, the attention given
to service, and the heavy de-
man d for accommodation
during and since the war.
And the board has made the
most of the opportunities thus
provided to strengthen the co.’s
position, financial and other-
wise. Over the last dozen years
profits totalled £105,483, of
which £50,750 was paid in divi-
dends, leaving £54,733 for re-
serves, which are now £786 in
excess of paid capital. Share-
holders, who came into the pic-
ture again with 2\ p.c., in 1938,
have had a steady 10 p.c. since
1942, sweetened with a 2\ p.c.
bonus last term.
Despite controlled tariff and
liquor charges on the one hand,
and on the other recurrent Wage-
lifts, higher cost of catering, re-
placements and maintenance, as
well as staff and other problems,
the board was able to show an
extra £2079 of profit last term.
That lifted the figure to £12,322,
or 24.6 p.c. on capital as against
20.4, 24.4, 23.6, 19.1, 20.5 and
19.4 p.c. back to 1943.
Apart from general disloca-
tion caused by the coal strike,
business has been well-main-
tained since the close of ac-
counts, and a still-buoyant
national income, high level of
employment and rising wage-
rates are encouraging features.
The big factor pulling the other
way is the continued rise in
wage and all other costs, which
promises to become very
troublesome when the economic
barometer begins to fall.
Financially the co. is now
better shod than ever before:
1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £50,000 £50,000 £50,000
Mortgages, etc. 3,829 3,343
Creditors & tax 23,950 17,073 19,048
Freehold, etc... 118,377 118,918 117,786
Stocks . . 2,982 2,607 2,671
Cash, debtors,
etc 4,163 4,184 11,202
Freehold is in at cost (£107,972)
and worth a lot more.
At 41s. 6d. the pound shares,
covered by 435. Id. in net
tangibles, return 6 p.c. so long
as the 12j p.c. distribution con-
tinues, or 4.8 p.c. on a 10 p.c.
div. basis.
If shareholders in Gold Ex-
ploration and Finance Co, of
Australia approve sale of the
co.’s assets to Western Mining
Corp. (B. 2/11/’49), they will
receive 150 f.-p. ss, shares in
Western Mining for every 100
of their own 10s. stock units
now held. After that Western
Mining will pay a div. of 6d. a
share, equivalent to 9d. per unit
of Gold Exploration stock.
Meanwhile Western Mining will
offer its minority shareholders
(other than Gold Exploration,
which owns approximately 97
p.c. of the issued scrip) 18,450
new- ss. shares at a premium of
Is. each. All this will lift Wes-
tern Mining’s issued capital to
£698,600 in 2,794,000 shares of
ss. each. Its holding in various
cos, will then be as follows;
Shares P.c.
Company. Held. Capital.
Central Norseman Gold
Corp 1,312,500 50.5
New Coolgardie .. 480,000 60
G.M. of Kalgoorlie .. 369,782 SO
G.M. of Australia .. , 260,500 62.3
Central Vic. Dredging 110,600 44
Gt. Western Consoli-
dated .. .. 1,000,000 100
For the year to March 31, 1949,
aggregate net etrnings of Wes-
tern Mining and its subsidiaries
were £150,460 as against £61,753
and £80,896 for the two preced-
ing years. The leap in the 1949
figure was due to profit on sale
of Central Norseman Gold
Corp. scrip. Dividends were 25
p.c., 1949 ; nil 1948 and 10 p.c.
for the two preceding terms.
* ♦ * *
For the year to June 30,
1949, Hill 50, Mt. Magnet
(W.A.), crushed 56,380 tons for
13,6160 z. fine gold, an average
of 4.B3dwt. The profit was
£3685 short of the previous
year’s at £18,072 (5.76 d. per 4s.
share), the drop being due to a
rise of about ss. a ton in work-
ing costs, which were 355. a ton.
Earnings were charged with
£17,718 (down £566) for develop-
ment and £7025 (up £203) for
depreciation. A div. of Is. a
share (£18,750) was paid in
August, 1948, and in the follow-
ing month subscribed capital was
doubled by the issue of 375,000
new 4s. shares, paid to Is. 6d.
each when the books closed.
Another 3d. a share (£9373) was
paid on June 20. At end June
ore reserves were estimated at
73,000 tons, averaging 5.2dwt.,
all above the 400 ft. level. Drill-
ing and winzing have disclosed
a “considerable” tonnage of pay
ore (with gold at £lO 15s. 3d.
an ounce) between the 400 ft. and
600 ft. levels, and some high
values have shown up in a drill
core between the 600 ft. and
800 ft. levels. The contribs. were
asked for another Is, a share on
November 9.
* * * *
London-controlled South Kal-
goorlie Consolidated, whose
leases on the Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile (W.A.) are served by three
shafts, ore from which goes
through the Croesus mill, paid no
div. again for the year to March
31 last. The loss on mining was
£9049. A Government subsidy
of £7500 and other income of
£1602 enabled the co. to show a
final profit of £53, compared
with £278 and £8577 for the two
preceding terms. During the
year 89,594 tons (up 4009 tons)
of 4.BBdwt. ore were treated for
19,4410 z, (up 1051 oz.) fine gold,
an average of 4.34dwt., or a re-
covery of 89 p.c. Ore reserves
at March 31 were: Blocked
.210,200 short tons, averaging
5.09dwt., and probable 142,500
short tons, averaging 4.6Bdwt.
The lift in the price of gold,
which went up by £4 14s. 7d.,
reaching £l5 9s. lOd. an ounce
(Australian currency) as from
September 20, should put share-
holders in the picture again.


y-'
LLOYD’S OF LONDON
. . . the first 250 years
1869: OPENING OF THE SUEZ CANAL
The year in which the Suez Canal became
the gateway to the East, Lloyd's present
day gilt-edged systems of guarantees and
deposits were founded. The confidence
inspired by these systems placed Lloyd’s
in an unassailable position.
LUMLEY’S OF LLOYD'S OFFER A
FREE INSURANCE ADVISORY SERVICE
As insurance brokers, Lumley’s are in the position,
not only to give you complete advice, but also to
call upon the specialised policies of any number of
underwriting organisations, including Lloyd’s of
London. Whatever your insurance need, make
sure your policy has the best possible coverage
and most reasonable rates by consulting lumley’s
free advisory service— in all States of the
Commonwealth.
EDWARD LEMLEY
& SOWS m. LTD.
263 George Street, Sydney. ’Phone BW 2131
C.M.L. Building, 72 Hunter Street, Newcastle. B 1810
79 Magellan St., Lismore. ’Phone: Lismore 380
EL.2R 1«
Have you looked over
your will lately?
IF you have not revised your Will to meet
to-day’s conditions, the consequences may
be serious for someone who depends on
you. Your responsibility to that someone
is too important to justify delaying until
some “to-morrow” that may never come.
Why not have a con-
fidential talk with one
of our Senior Officers
on the subject of the
appointment of the
Company as your
Execu,tor and Trustee
—alone or jointly with
a relative or friend.
He will help you to
provide for the efficient
and economical settle-
ment of your Estate,
also for its efficient
management thereafter.
The final step of having
your Solicitor re-draw
your Will, should then
be a simple matter.
If you prefer , send
first, for a copy of the
booklet “Your Execu-
tor and Trusteelt
explains the services
offered by the Company
—and the charges.
iSS
DIRECTORS:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.
(Chairman);
E. R. KNOX;
ALLEN C. LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT;
D. R. LYSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS.
Managing Director.
A. G. AHMYTAGE, Manager
•
TRUST & AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £68,000,000
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE, AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES & OTHERS, ADMINISTRATOR, ETC.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAGGA WAGGA. TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Courtaulds (Aust.), Ltd.
The coining of the rayon-fibre
extrusion industry to Australia
will represent a huge new enter-
prise, and the finance required
will place the new venture, in
one act, among the highest-
capitalised concerns in the Com-
monwealth.
The initial capital to be issued
by Courtaulds (Aust.), Ltd., will
be £6,750,000, and, with the ex-
ception of 675,000 £1 deferred
shares to be issued to the Eng-
lish parent Courtaulds co., all
of it will be in £1 ordinaries.
The Australian public, on
present tentative plans, will be
offered only 250,000 ords., a
number “which may be added to
by the underwriters in the event
of oversubscription.” The under-
writers (E. L. and C. Baillieu
and lan Potter and Co., Mel-
bourne, and Hordern, Utz and
Bode, Sydney) have taken firm
2.530.000 ords., but these in-
clude shares to be allotted to
Australian financial institutions
and industrial companies
among which, it is said, will be
the A.M.P. and Colonial Sugar.
Three million ordinaries have
been reserved, on a 50-50 basis,
for subscription by the English
parent co. and by other “Aus-
tralian interests.” The remaining
295.000 ords. are being reserved
as consideration to Courtaulds,
England, for designs and ser-
vices in superintending factory
construction. The deferreds
will go to the English co. as
further consideration for formu-
las, royalty-free licences, etc.,
together with £75,000 in cash.
Though no prospectus is yet
available, it has been announced
that the rights to profits of share-
holders inter se are as follows:
Five per cent. p.a. to ord. share-
holders.
One-ninth of that total to deferred
shareholders.
The balance to be distributed 90
p.c. to ord. holders and 10 p.c. to
deferred shareholders.
The extent to which the pro-
portion of the issue to be under-
written firm by the
brokers concerned will
come on to the market
eventually is com-
pletely uncertain from
such information as is
at present available.
Certainly the 250,000
or so ords. specifically
earmarked for public
subscription is a very
small proportion of the
total initial issue. And
who the “Australian
interests” are who will
be participating to the
extent of half the
3,000,000-share parcel
is a question which has
been tickling the imagi-
nation of the Australian
sharemarkets.
Directors of the com-
pany are R. J. Vicars,
J. M, Baillieu, Col.
F. T. Davies, G. H.
Grimwade, Dr. R. W.
E. B. Harman, Samuel
Hordern, J. T. McKee
and Frederick Williams.
Any clues which those names
might give are very wide ones.
The co. proposes to put up
two factories to begin with—
one to make viscose tyre yarn
and another to make cellulose
acetate yarn. The first is ex-
pected to be erected at Tomago,
in the Hunter River (N.S.W.)
district, and the acetate-yarn
plant may be put up there also.
Capital outlay is forecast at
£4,411,000 for land, buildings,
plant and machinery; £295,000
for designs and factory-ere’ction
supervision; £71,000 housing
and amenities; £1,100,000 for
contingencies (with costs rising
as they are in Australia this
seemingly huge amount for such
an item is not really out of the
way).
Courtaulds was one of the
phenomenally successful British
industries that flourished after
World War I. Those people who
put a few hundred pounds into
“As I always say , a car like that speaks for itself .”
the show originally in many
cases made a fortune. A large
overseas Courtaulds empire was
also built up, especially in the
United States, though most of
these shares had to be sold
during World War II in order
to help the British Government
finance war-time dollar munition
purchases, etc.
The Australian venture,
though highly attractive, is un-
likely to have the spectacular
early career of its British
progenitor. It will start off with
a very big capital by Australian
industrial standards, and it will
not have the possibilities for ex-
pansion that British, U.S., Euro-
pean and Japanese rayon con-
cerns had at their beginnings.
Maoriland Sharemarkets
Stags, bulls, bears, sharks,
get-rich-quick guys, speculators
and real honest-to-goodness in-
vestors have all taken knocks in
N.Z.’s sharemarket, and many
of the crew seem to have fled
for shelter, but investors worth
the name are still battling on
against credit controls, isola-
tion, wavering profit trends and,
lately, the shocks of a political
donnybrook.
Inflationary pressure was
enough to keep business alive,
if not lively, during the warm-
ing-up rounds on the hustings,
when the balance between
Nationalists and Labor-Socialists
looked too even for tipsters to
lay odds, and ample funds were
held ready to be thrown in
when there was something more
to go on. Before this a good
deal of cash was flowing around
inside the Reserve Bank’s
tightened credit - control net
drawn round the market last
year, but it was mostly in gilt-
edged channels and in a limited
group of share leaders. Aus-
tralian shares in Maorilanders’
hands rallied in October from a
July-August setback when the
run on Australian currency to
buy new B.H.P. scrip added
something to the earlier margin
of 12y p.c. between Australian
and M.L, values.
There’s a slow drift on M.L.’s
share front, which began a
couple of years ago, but it isn’t
general, and there have been
signs here and there that it has
been halted, at least for a while.
Anything that promises a fillip
to business is quickly seized on
by M.L. capitalists. Lifting of
building controls early in
November a vote-catching
move —although it didn’t amount
to a great deal when boiled
down, because there were still
bottlenecks for materials and
labor, and some of the controls
hadn’t been operating fully for
months past, was a bull point,
but only a mild one. Timber
scrip and Fletchers’ millionaire
construction combine (backed by
C.S.R.) felt the favorable cur-
rent, but N.Z. Forest Products’
giant softwoods concern was
passed by.
What N.Z.’s timber industry
needs is incentive, real he-man
drive, to galvanise it into action.
If, instead of jogging along, it
got right down to business, with
the brakes off, M.L. would echo
and re-echo to the clang of
hammers.
In N.Z., as in Australia,
there’s a veneer of prosperity
that sounds hollow if you hit it.
The unstable, high cost-price
structure is balanced pre-
cariously. Maorilanders need a
breath of fresh stimulating air
from outside.
The C.S.R.
Total Australian sugar pro-
duction for the 1949 season is
estimated at 925,000 tons, which
is slightly higher than the out-
turn for 1948. The stuff is still
accumulating at Queensland
ports. The C.S.R., as refiner,
gets no share of the recent in-
crease in the retail price of
sugar; what is left of the ha’-
penny a pound after higher costs
are met is intended for the
growers and millers.
The C.S.R. is acquiring a
share-interest in Courtaulds, the
new rayon flotation, and it will
supply the rayon co. with its
cellulose acetate requirements.
Colonial Sugar now has a
broad spread of industrial
activities. These were sum-
marised thus by the chairman at
the shareholders’ meeting:
Raw - sugar mills : Capacity
350,000 tons sugar per season. Har-
wood, Broadwater, Condong—in
N.S.W. Victoria, Macknade, Goondi,
Hamtfledon —in Queensland. Nausori,
Rarawai, Labaasa, Lautoka, Penang—
in Fiji.
Sugar-refineries : Capacity 600,000
tons sugar per year. Sydney, Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth,
Auckland.
Distilleries: Pyrmont Sydney.
Y arraville —Melbourne.
Shipping: Ocean vessels, lifting-
capacity 18,000 tons. S.S. Rona,
S.S. Tambua, S.S. Fiona.
Building - materials division :
Cane-ite, Hardboard, Gyprock, Wall-
board, asphalt floor - tile and
asbestos-products factories —Sydney.
Plaster mills —Sydney and Melbourne.
Gypsum mines—New South Wales
and Victoria.
C.S.R. Chemicals, Ltd.: Rhodes,
Sydney.
Sundries: Agents for the Queens-
land Government. Investments.
Engineering works—Sydney. Pine-
apple cannery—Fiji. Yaqara cattle-
station —Fiji. Research laboratory—
Sydney.
Subsidiaries (interest only): Aus-
tralian Blue Asbestos, Ltd. —Western
Australia. Robert Corbett Pty., Ltd.
—Sydney. Sugar Cartage, Ltd. —
Sydney.
Total value of output year ended
March 31, 1949, £48,000,000. Net
profit same period, £1,206,762.
There are New Zealand reports
that the C.S.R. is also interested
in the Fletcher group of con-
struction companies there.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping, Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKS OIH
osuujvan
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
“jAXUL” WINDOW FACE ENVELOPES
BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“NATIONAL” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA” SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
WAXED MILK BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL”, BRISBANE
STOPvou'Ruptiire
Worries/ mm
Mark*) location
of VOUg ffUPTtWE.
The new Roussel
enables you to work
with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition
necessary for im-
provement or re-
covery. Recommend-
ed by thousands.
Call or send stamp for details, self-
measurement form and H Days’ Free
Trial Offer. No obligation.
ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
df
Machinery
People
281 Latrobe St., Melbourne. MU 2321
• Engineers’ Machine Tools. • Portable
Electric Tools • Woodworking Machines.
• Circular and Band Saws. « All types
Saw Repairs.
Since
1817
£
TF
Ik People's Rank"
In the year 1829 the Sydney “Monitor” news-
paper, referring to the Bank of New South Wales,
which had been established in 1817 under Governor
Lachlan Macquarie, wrote:—
“ Macquarie’s Bank is supported by the people,
i.e., by the farmers, merchants, shopkeepers,
mariners, soap-boilers, tanners, butchers, bakers,
gardeners, cedar-gatherers and craft builders of the
colony. It is emphatically, therefore, the people’s
bank.”
To-day, with' a proud record of continuous
service to the people of Australia for over 130
years, the “Wales” is still “emphatically the
people’s bank.” The people s appreciation of the
services rendered by the Bank and of its efficiency
and business methods is shown by the fact that
deposits now exceed £250 million in Australia alone.
The traditions which have
enabled the “Wales” to retain
the loyalty of its several hundred
thousand customers are being
maintained to-day.
BANK OF
NEW SOUTH WALES
FIRST BANK IN AUSTRALIA
Incorporated In New South Wales with limited (lability
d
A 49260
NOW
HAVE A S
mm
f
mmmmm
y/y.
pm
V.
1,.
—JfxsKC. — *
When yon call for Brandy
make sure you say
stones
BRAN D Y ggm
“THE EMPIRE CHAMPION."*
DA.a
Distilled .Qpd Bottled by ANGOVES LTD,. South Australia
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
Days are now prone to be
foggy. Mornings are raw, heavy
and ashen-white, changing to
dirty yellow by midday. Some-
times the sun, helped by a west
wind, breaks up the fog in the
afternoon; but the evenings,
except when wet, are murky and
dank. Chests wheeze and
grumble, and the common cold
is everywhere. It is that time of
year when London lives up to
character and when most
Londoners wish they were far
away.
Like appeals for “A penny for
the guy, mister?” Christmas
displays in the shops seem to get
earlier year by year. Some West
End stores had Christmas-trees
a good week before October ran
out. Complaints are heard with-
out surprise that trade is disap-
pointing, and that the customary
run on the shops of early autumn
petered out (the scramble which
followed the rumor that clothes-
rationing would be reintroduced
was as determinedly confined to
essentials as it was ephemeral).
A good many impassioned ex-
pressions are being exchanged
about the preparations for the
Festival of Britain, to be held in
London in 1951. Party politics
are now extending to this project,
which, since it is intended to
attract overseas visitors, would
seem to be undeserving of this
too-familiar wrangle. The
trouble began with the municipal
elections last spring, when equal
numbers of Conservative and
Labor councillors were returned
by the polls. It was a sharp
reverse for the Socialists, who
have long considered the London
County Council to be their
stronghold. So they made a
party-issue of it, marshalled all
their councillors and aldermen
(even to summoning the odd one
or two from sick beds), and con-
trived a clear majority. Mr. I. J.
Hayward, Labor “boss” on the
council, sought to justify his
action on the grounds that it
would avoid delays and in-
efficiency. The ratepayers were
not convinced.
The L.C.C., being naturally
deeply involved in the festival,
have had to meet heavy criticism
on three main headings; the
total cost (£10,000,000 —now cut
to £9,000,000), the £2,000,000
concert hall, and the conversion
of part of Battersea Park into a
“fun-fair” at a cost of £770,000.
There is less dissent over the
total cost than over the two other
issues. Party politics come into
the picture because Mr. Hayward
is actively concerned in the
affair. There is no considerable
opposition to a new concert hall
for London, but it is pointed out
that there are more suitable
sites; for its roof is only a few
feet from Hungerford Bridge,
over which electric-trains rumble
and rattle every few minutes.
The heavy additional cost in in-
sulating the building against
sound (there are to be two
separate concrete shells, and the
staircases are carefully devised
so as not to conduct noises into
the main hall) is not considered
to be justified. Mr, Hayward’s
comments on this are not known,
but he did, state, at an official
ceremony, that the ordinary man
needn’t feel himself to be left
out. If he didn’t like music he
could sit on the terrace outside
the hall and enjoy a pint of beer.
A storm of letters and words
is raging over Battersea Park. A
fun-fair is hardly thought to be
essential to the distinction of the
Festival, especially at such a high
cost. Local residents understand-
ingly object to the noise. Mr.
Hayward has given his answer.
“We believe,” he has said, “that
it will be possible to provide a
fun-fair without any noise at
all.”
Drifting and Dreaming
It is doubtful whether Britain’s
more responsible citizens felt the
shock as severely as did the
entire non-Socialist Press when
the timidity of the Government’s
retrenchment “cuts” were made
known. For it seemed certain
that further arbitrary and
peremptory demands would be
made upon the proficient, the
self-supporting and the long-
suffering. That is not to say
that good citizens, both with and
without political leanings, aren’t
shocked. The Prime Minister’s
speech is held to be as big a
psychological blunder as any that
has occurred during this long
term of office. The country was
braced for an explosion and was
given a damp squib. It is signi-
ficant that the one measure to
arouse general approval was the
contribution of one shilling to
be made towards prescriptions
under the National Health
Service.
All realists felt that some sub-
stantial scaling-down of the
social services (£300,000,000 a
year) and the beginning of a
gradual reduction of the food
subsidies (over £400,000,000 a
year) were due immediately. Mr.
Eden’s remark that the food sub-
sidies represent 3s. 2d. a week to
every individual, against an
average weekly expenditure of
11s. 6d. on alcohol and tobacco,
has been widely noticed. He
might alsp have added another
3s. or so for football pools and
2s. for betting to the weekly
outgo. At all events, Opposition-
speakers show signs of being at
once bold and frank: they have
up to now fought shy of suggest-
ing reduced benefits.
It seems lamentable that the
nation must stand by, uncertain
and gloomy, while the Govern-
ment desultorily plays out time
until the general election, which
can hardly take place before
February, Reasoned and in-
formed opinion persistently
draws attention to the listless
drift towards crisis and, maybe,
disaster.
What Britain lacks above all
else is quiet confidence. The
will, the capacity and the
potential unity of the people
have not been fostered. British
people must have confidence in
themselves, in their leaders and
in what they are doing. Lord
Bruce, speaking recently at
Guildhall at a National Savings
rally, touched the core of the
problem. In effect, he said that
to inspire thrift it was essential
that the pound should be worth
saving; and this called for a
“much more drastic action” by
the Government in economic
crises. The attitude of mind, “It
will all come right in the end,”
leads, he said, to inevitable
disaster.
It is unfortunate, but unalter-
able, that we have some months
of waiting in front of us.
Rouble, Rouble . . .
While waiting for a vacancy
among the West End theatres a
revival of Anton Chekhov’s “The
Sea Gull” has been drawing size-
able audiences to Hammersmith.
Men with longish hair and
women of the type that used to
be called “Bloomsbury” seemed
to predominate. The arty—and,
unquestionably, the party —have
paid their tributes to the classic
drama and to Russia. They
didn’t appear to gain full satis-
faction. The play failed to
compel, and, notwithstanding
the frequent mention of roubles
and kopecks and droshkies, pro-
vincial Russia of the haughty
’nineties seemed little different
from countless other conven-
tional stage settings,
“The Sea Gull” has not been
in London since 1936, when John
Gielgud, Edith Evans, Stephen
Haggard, Peggy Ashcroft and
Martita Hunt, with a real Rus-
sian (Komisarjevsky) to direct,
gave a performance that stunned
the town. This tense and vivid
memory is noted only because
it serves to show that a great
presentation needn’t depend
entirely upon a great play. Other
facts confirm. When first per-
formed in 1896 at the Imperial
Theatre, St. Petersburg, the
critics said the play was not
merely poor but ridiculous. It
was through the Dantchenko-
Stanislavsky partnership, with its
detailed and imaginative prepara-
tion, that the play roared to
success and, at the same time,
established the then newfangled
Moscow Art Theatre,
The present London produc-
tion is good average theatre-
history stuff which no student
of the drama would want to
miss, if only for the opportunity
of seeing a star in the making,
Twenty - six - year - old Paul
Schofield, who plays the poet
Constantine (and who alternated
Hamlet with Robert Helpmann
two years ago), is as good
to watch as a gifted stroke-
player in his early Tests. His
naturalness, perfect style,
economy of effort and freedom
from mannerism are the right
foundations for greatness. But
in this instance he is batting on
a very sticky wicket and doesn’t
quite pull it off.


Women’s Letters
From Sydney
There was one fashion note among the
onlookers at last Friday’s ceremonial
Beating of Retreat at Victoria Barracks.
Every woman, and every man in civvies
flew a poppy. For the date was Novem-
ber 11, which is Armistice (or Remem-
brance) Day.
There is something in this pageantry
of arms, this, to a woman, mystic
ritual of Mars, evolved bit by bit
and through the Centuries, after
evening roll-call on countless foreign
fields that stirs the imagination.
The parade-ground became patterned
with light and shadow under the
setting sun. Here, lithe and meticulous,
moved the soldiers, their scarlet and
blue uniforms as brave as the martial
music of the bands. Brisk and clear-
cut were the movements of the drummers.
At length came a pause in the intricate
marching and pattern-weaving. Across
the parade-ground, to the hundreds of
gazers on verandahs and balconies, came
the sound of young voices singing
“Abide With Me” and “O Valiant
Heart.” The Governor, Lieut.-General
John Northcott, who inspected the guard,
was received by the G.0.C., Lieut.-
General Berryman.
Red Cross and Legacy have both lost
an ardent and untiring worker by the
death of Edith Prior. Miss Prior died at
her home in Bradley’s Head-road,
Mosman, during the weekend after an
illness that had lasted some months. She
was the daughter of the late Mr.
and Mrs. S. H. Prior. S.H.P. was the
managing-editor of The Bulletin for
many years. She was the only girl in a
family of four. Her brothers are Bruce,
Phil and H. K. (Ken) Prior. The la§t-
named is The Bulletin’s managing-
director.
There was a gay farewell to the mem-
bers of the Bodenwieser Ballet, how
sailing for South Africa, where they
have a 10-weeks’ tour ahead. Rose-
mary Benjamin, director of the Theatre
for Children in Reiby-place, was the
hostess. There was quite an exciting
atmosphere, as it was straight from party
to ship for many of the guests. Two
of the company, Mardi Watchorn and.
Coralie Hinkler, have already toured
Enzed with the Bodenwieser Ballet. Mardi
is a Hobart girl. Both she and Coralie are
holders of the Teachers’ Diploma of
Modern Dance. Another of the com-
pany, Eileen Cramer, designed the
costumes for a new ballet, “Grecian
Suite,” which will have its premiere in
South Africa.
Rather minus on the men but plus on
the really lovely hats was the late-after-
noon party in the great hall of Sydney
University last Thursday. The setting
was distinctive and impressive, the food
supplied by Manning House was luscious,
and the flower decorations —Beatrice
Wines, of the Fisher Library, had quite
a bit to do with them—were approved
by all. Red lilies and blue hydrangea
were massed at the steps of the dais at
the end of the hall, and across from their
warm color stood a high white urn with
a rather classic arrangement of white
lilies. Also admired were the silver
branched candlesticks set on the long
buffet-table.
The party will benefit the appeal for
Crosby Hall, London. The guests were
received by the wife of the Vice-
Chancellor of Sydney University, Mrs.
S. H. Roberts, her frock and hat, even to
its plume of ostrich-fronds, a soft tone
of mist-blue, by Agnes Scobie, president
of the Women Graduates’ Association,
and Mrs. O. M. Davis, president of the
Women’s Union.
The guests were almost all academics,
consular and University graduates—there
probably wasn’t a dropped aspirate or a
split infinitive, or such-like accident all the
evening. In an afternoon of fascinating
hats honorable mention goes to Helen
Aspinall’s large blue tulle, to Mrs, lan
Maxwell’s turquoise velvet bowler, Mrs.
Tom Bateman’s cloche of blue-grey straw
clustered with roses above the right-ear.
Among the hundreds were the wife of
Professor Dakin, Kate Ogilvie, Gladys
Marks, Thelma Herring and Marjorie
Jacobs, Mrs. C. R. McKerihan, Dr. Gwen
Fitz Patrick —her hat had been bought for
her in Melbourne by her husband.
Among the guests were Sir Patrick and
Lady Hamilton,
Mahdi McCrae, who is Mrs. Mc-
William, and, of course, one of poet
Hugh’s talented daughters, can feel
proud of the exquisite edition of Hauff’s
Tales, for the make-up of which she is
mostly responsible. , The stories—fairy-
tales of the Grimm type —have been trans-
fated by Margaret Gallia, and Mahdi has
illustrated them. Each illustration is a
reproduction of an oil-painting or a
woodcut. The paper is good, and the
print surrounded by wide margins—not
meadows of margins. Mahdi’s sister,
Mrs. Huntly Cowper, did the allur-
ing black-and-white tailpieces. There
is one picture of a Moorish horse-
man clothed in wine-red, mounted
on a white charger. The back-
ground of the picture is Chinese yellow.
Mrs. McWilliam also illustrates school
books, and Constable Pacey’s King
Kobar, and Bobbie in Goblin Land books.
Constable Pacey is lecturer for the police
—telling children how to watch traffic
dangers.
The Girl in the Flat Opposite has a
name for them. She calls the followers
of the star-guides “Seersuckers”!
Brisbane teacher of dancing Joy
Bassett, just returned from a refresher
course in ballet work in London and
Paris, flew down to Sydney last Monday.
When in London she had the distinction
of being made an examiner for the Royal
Academy of Dancing in the children’s
section in Australia. There have been
only two Australian-trained teachers of
ballet to gain this appointment—Frances
Scully was the first. While in Paris Joy
studied with Preobrajenska, the oldest
known Russian ballerina, who is
lithe, blithe and elegant and just 80 years
young.
Australia, a country of melodious voices
and talented composers, is all too poor
in the number of her homegrown musical
plays. Irene Tucker, seen here, is about
to add to the Australian repertoire with
her musical comedy “Blue Heaven.” This
will be presented in the Assembly Hall in
Margaret-street on November 24. The
scene is set in the Blue Mountains be-
tween the Megalong and Kanimbla
valleys, and the whole of this romantic
musical play started to weave in the brain
of its writer when she was lost for a
short time in the mountain stillness. The
third act was written a year or so ago
when Mrs. Tucker returned to the spot
to steep herself once more in the atmos-
phere,
Mrs. Tucker gained a lot of experience
of stage work with the Adelaide Reper-
tory Society, the Sydney Drama Society
and other little-theatre groups. She
plays a small part in the film “Bitter
Springs.” Her novelty piano number
“China” has been produced over the air.
During the war, when in Adelaide, she
wrote “Deep, Deep Down,” a patriotic
song which made wide appeal.
The Max Murrays are planning a mid-
day party next Sunday to say, farewell to
Sydney friends. These two' Ausrtalian
writers, who have made good in the big,
hard outside world, go back to London
and America to sign more and still more
contracts. The nicest thing about the
two is their complete absence of literary
“swank.” Max, who really can put a thrill
into a thriller, is trying his hand at
play-writing, and his comedy, “The Ad-
miral’s Chair,” is now having a run in
Pasadena. Maysie writes both romance
and thrillers. With their small son
Robert .they will leave Sydney in the
Surriento. They will stay for a time in
Rome and Sicily, then make for London
and then for America. Mrs. Gladys
Lister, famed for her books for children
and the ’teen-ages, is giving a “come-
back-soon” party in honor of Mr. and
Mrs. Murray on December 1.
Two recitals by the French singer Ninon
Vallin lifted last week to a high level,
vocally. After hearing her in “Segue-
dilla,” from “Carmen,” her Town, Hall
listeners could only regret that they had
not heard this celebrated French woman
singing in opera. One of her concert
frocks last week was of black tulle over
soft black silk. The skirt swept out in
graceful fullness, the bodice was strapless
over the right shoulder. Over the left was
a soft fold glittering with sequins, the
sequinned design forming one half of
the corsage. A shoulder scarf of the tulle
was notable. It had minute rows of
stitching, here and there, to give it body.
From Melbourne
With each supper-table named for a
town in Britain, suits of armor and
ancient British wfeapons in the foyer,
brightly-colored maps, posters and ban-
nerettes in the ballroom, the right
atmosphere of the Thank You Britain
Ball at the St. Kilda Town Hall was
created. At the back of the official table
the emblem of Britain was set in a
drapery of royal crimson to match the
deep crimson roses on the official table,
with its covering of silver lame, lent by
Lady Syme. The smaller tables were set
with red, white and blue flower-posies.
Lady Brooks and her daughter Jeanette
were welcomed by Mrs. L. R. Buxton,
president of the ball committee, Peter
Isaacson, vice-president, and Mr. Rey-
nolds, M.L.A., chairman of the British
Memorial Fund, which will benefit from
the proceeds. The pale-grey organza gown
patterned with pastel-tinted flowers worn
by the Governor’s wife had an off-the-
shoulder bodice and a bouffant skirt.
Jeanette’s full-skirted taffeta gown was of
pale-yellow lightly patterned in a floral
design of pink and black. Mrs. Buxton’s
gown of aqua-blue satin featured a very
full-pleated skirt. Mrs. Iris Clarke’s white
satin gown was strapless, the bodice
folded in peaks. Mrs. Peter Tronson’s
gown was of old-rose brocade. Mrs. Dick
Noone swished satins in a soft shade of
blue. Anne Bailey’s primrose-yellow
chiffon gown had a halter neckline and
a slim skirt. A gold self-patterned
brocade was worn by Mrs. Arnold
Isaacson. During the evening a fashion-
show entertained the guests.
Five hundred guests, members of Red
Cross branches, companies and links of
service in the metropolitan area and
country districts, came to Stonnington in
Malvern for the reception given to Lady
Brooks, who now becomes president of
the Victorian Division of Red Cross. The
Governor accompanied his lady; they
were attended by Colonel Spraggett, his
wife and daughter, Captain Taplin and
Miss Everard. The vice-regal party was
received by Lady Herring and Howard
Buchanan, chairman of the Victorian
division. Among officials noted were
Mesdames Eccles Mackaey, T. W. White
and G. C. Scantlebury.
St. George’s Cathedral, Perth, was the
setting for the marriage of Gabrielle
Venn, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. J. G.
Money, of Bunbury and Weeba station,
Leonora, W.A., and Ronald, son of Mr.
and Mrs. R. F. Baillieu, of South Yarra.
The bride’s filmy white tulle gown had a
bodice of pleated tulle, with the yoke
deep and transparent; the bouffant skirt
was composed of layers of tulle and a
tiny train. A cap of white feathers held
the long tulle veil, Jennifer Barrett, of
Melbourne, Pamela Egerton-Warburton,
Helen Prichard and three little girls. Dale
Venn, Jane Finlayson and Deborah Venn,
were the bride’s attendants. They wore
flounced picture frocks of white organdie
and carried bouquets of lily-of-the-valley.
George Farmer was best man and the
’groom’s cousin, Baillieu Myer, and
Robert Money were groomsmen. Two
hundred guests attended the reception at
the Adelphi. Mrs. J..G. Money’s gown
of cream satin was brocaded in a gold-
and-green leaf design. The bridegroom’s
mother, Mrs. Reg Baillieu, wore a gown
of soft French grey chiffon and a hat of
black crinoline straw finished with grey
ospreys.
A novel innovation for such a function
—and one not without certain risks!
was a feature of the first general reunion
held at the Women’s Services’ Club when
500 former A.A.M.W.S. turned up to
celebrate and yarn over old war-time
days. Still, the fact that many did suc-
cessfully defy the old exhortation not to
“introduce your husband to a pal” will
mean that the idea of reunionists bring-
ing their husbands along, too, will catch
on. Among the special guests welcomed
by Major Alice Appleford, assistant-
controller of A.A.M.W.S;, Southern Com-
mand, and the convenors, Misses Gladys
Smith and Millie Field, were Matron G.
Brindley, former matron of the 2nd/6th
A.G.H.; Colonel A. Sherwin, C.O. at
Heidelberg; Colonel M. Jacob, former
C.O. of 2nd/6th A.G.H.; and Colonel N.
Newing, former C.O. of 2nd/Bth A.G.H.
From each State, from Victorian areas,
from Kure, Japan, and the Woomera
rocket-range came messages of greeting
and of wishes that this initial get-together
be a happy one.
There will be all kinds of fun and
games at the English-Speaking Union’s
Christmas Fair on Nevember 26. The
garden of Yallambee, the home of Sir
Owen and Lady Dixon, will be the setting,
and here the American group, dressed as
Pilgrims, will conduct the Mayflower
Shop, stocked with all American food,
including special cheese. The Queensland
Fruit Shop has been organised by Mrs.
T. J. Ryan, and the Village Store, well
stocked with simple packages suitable for
posting to Britain, will be conducted by
Mesdames C. Buckley, F. M. Deitrich
and D. Mackinnon. The merry-go-
round, tulip-bed and helpers for children
are the responsibility of younger members
of the E.-S.U. The dog show, with prizes
for the dog with the most soulful eyes, the
tyke most like its owner and the one
with the shortest or the longest tail, has
already brought in a number of entries.
The Christmas-tree, the toy shop and Ye
Olde Tea-room have been successfully
organised by members of the E.-S.U.
Working at top speed behind the scenes
is Mrs. Gerald Bacon. A silver coin
admits to the fair, and those without cars
or petrol are bidden to take the Baker’s-
road bus by Kew depot or Burke-road.
A member of the Southern Auxiliary
for the Tweddle Hospital, Mrs. Geoffrey
Damman, is one of the ticket-secretaries
for the annual ball the auxiliary is hold-
ing on November 24 at the New Alex-
andra, East St. Kilda. Mrs. Damman,
who is also a member of the Sutherland
Homes Auxiliary, is the mother of two
small daughters, Carolyn and Miranda.
She is often to be seen at fashion-shows
modelling hats. Athol Shmith photo.
At the Town Hall reception given by
the National Council of Women, Lady
Brooks and her daughter Jeanette were
welcomed by Mrs. K. Kumm, president
of the Council. In the reception
committee were Mrs. Herbert Brookes,
Mrs. Claude Couchman and Miss M. A.
Williamson. Lady Herring, Mrs. Tom
Hollway and the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
J. S. Disney, were also in the official party.
The Governor’s lady wore a large-
brimmed honey-toned straw hat with her
black silk romaihe frock, which had a
yoke of fine beige lace. Jeanette Brooks’s
taffeta frock was in fine navy-and-white
checks, her bonnet-shaped hat of white
straw.
At His Majesty’s the capacity audience
was held spellbound by “Macbeth,”
beautifully produced and played by the
Stratfprd Memorial Theatre Company.
Mrs. Frank Tail wore a pastel-blue gown
which sparkled with diamente. Mrs. Ivan
Menzies, wife of the Gilsullivan
comedian, had her black velvet coat
finished with chinchilla. A red taffeta
jacket was worn by Mrs. Lester Bunbury
over her bottle-green taffeta gown. A
mink-trimmed ruby-red faille coat con-
trasted with Mrs. Aubrey Gibson’s gown
of primrose pleated chiffon. Gwenda
Barter’s unusual black frock had a
collar of silver beads, with a bead fringe
finish,
A back panel of black-and-white-
striped taffeta was a feature of the sweep-
ing black taffeta gown worn by Mrs
John Masters. Over a white red-spotted
frock Mrs. Daryl Lindsay draped a long
black lace mantilla. Reta Findlay wore
a period jacket to match her gown of
grey-and-silver brocade. Mrs. E. L. G.
Cresswell’s black-and-silver brocade coat
was worn over black crepe. Mrs. Garnet
Carroll draped a white Arctic-fox cape
stole over her gold-embroidered white
crepe romaine gown. Mrs. Rupert
Downes, who was with her daughter, Mrs.
Jim Campbell, added a matching jacket
banded with silver lame to her scarlet
gown. White crepe, gold-embroidered,
was Mrs. Arthur Tait’s contribution to
elegance. Mrs. A. Silk’s slim-fitting
dinner dress was of white silver-
embroidered crepe. Judy Lloyd’s bouffant
black tulle had for , company a swing-
back Persian-lamb jacket.


fd
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
Hot. tired feet need
this treatment:—
A Cuticura Soap bath
and Cuticura Oint-
ment application. Try
it and enjoy real foot
comfort. Cuticura
Ointment. Soap and
Talcum Powder—
the famous
triou
532
Missing Friend.
DREWER, John Stewart. —Anyone know-
ing his whereabouts or his descendants
please communicate with G. ST. CLAIR,
58 Kenneth St., Longueville, Sydney.
J 81264.
ism
Circular Charts for all types
of Recording Instruments
tor any class of Machinery
or Equlpmsnl
METER CHARTS a Specialty
JAC mmf o t sTlu VAN
QUEEN STREET. BRISBANE
Public Notice.
Permanent Trustee Company of
New South Wales Limited.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
THE SIXTY-SECOND'
ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF
SHAREHOLDERS
will be held at the Company’s Offices,
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
on Tuesday, 22nd November, 1949,
at 2.15 p.m.
BUSINESS:
To receive the Directors’ Report and
Balance Sheet to 30th September, 1949.
To declare a dividend.
To elect two Directors. Dr. George
Moncrieff Barron and Mr. Jack Riverstone
Faviell retire in accordance with the
Articles of Association, but are eligible
and offer themselves for re-election.
To appoint Auditors and fix their remunera-
tion. Messrs. R. W. Nelson, Wheeler and
Barton, Chartered Accountants (Aust.),
the retiring Auditors, are eligible for re-
appointment, and offer themselves accord-
ingly.
To consider any other business of which
due notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
N. L. SHAW, Manager.
9th November, 1949.
AN ECONOMY PLAN FOR Tiff POWER FARMER
The Lemcol L5O (illustrated) makes an easy one-man task of loading and
moving the heaviest drum or barrel, and the Lemcol range includes
other drum handling equipment and straight hand trucks suffi-
cient to meet any requirement. For full information, write to
any of these Lemcol distributors:
S.A.; Industrial Truck and Equipment Co.; McPhersons Ltd.; Wm. Adams & Co.
Ltd.; Cornell Ltd;; Harris Scarfe Ltd.; Lemcol Soles and Service Co. N.S.W.
Eliza Tinsley Pty. Ltd.; E. W. Cox; Power Engineering Supplies Pty. Ltd.;
Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.;. J. C. Ludowici & Son Ltd.; McPhersons Ltd.
VIC. Hr TAS. Perrot & Adams Pty. Ltd.; Eliza Tinsley Pty. Ltd.; Wm. Adams
& Co. Ltd.; J. C. Ludowici & Son. Ltd.; McPhersons Ltd. Q'SLD. ★ Hoey
Fry Pty, Ltd. ★ Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd. W.A.: Atkins (W.A.) Ltd.;
McPhersons Pty. Ltd.; Wm. Adams & Co. Ltd.
★ Wheels and Casters only.
/
s.
O
LEMCOL
DRUM
CRADLE
LEMCOL
L5O TRANSPORT
“LEMCOL” IKE NAME THAT CARRIES WEIGHT!
LDI9
MANUFACTURED BY APAC INQUSTRIFS LIMITED
VM
mu
FINSBURY: SOUTH AUSTRALIA
SUNDRY SHOW
"Macbeth."
The Greek idea of tragedy as
catharsis has some merit in it.
The soul purged itself in survey-
ing happenings on the stage
which might well be happening
in the life of the individual spec-
tator. It is a fact that we can
only judge of the happenings on
a stage in terms of the happen-
ings in our own life. If we
haven’t experienced similar hap-
penings to the things that hap-
pened to Macbeth we can’t ever
have felt the feelings Macbeth
felt and if we haven’t felt those
feelings, how can we recognise
them in other people or in the
characters that symbolise those
feelings? So what are we judg-
ing up a violent play like
“Macbeth” on? What touch-
stone are we applying to Mr,
Anthony Quayle’s performance
or the production for which he
is responsible? It might be only
some prejudice we have for or
against actors who come from
England, not to mention a place
with such tremendous prestige as
Stratford-on-Avon. We remain
prigs in that case.
And on what experience of his
own is Mr. Quayle, who is rush-
ing around sticking a sword very
realistically into his fellow-
actors’ bowels, basing his per-
formance? It is highly unlikely
that Diana Wynyard, who is
tottering down a staircase
staring panic - stricken at in-
visible bloodstains, has ever
had to contemplate the pos-
sibilities and dangers confront-
ing a lady who has waded
through a sea of blood to the
throne of Scotland. And yet she
portrays her very nicely, and Mr.
Quayle seems to make Macbeth
live, and the horror deepens as
murder succeeds murder; and
even the minor actors, who have
probably never been harassed by
anything more brutal than an
income-tax assessment, seem
able to convey the wild savagery
and insecurity of 11th-century
Scotland, where your bed was
the unsafest thing to sleep on.
Thus, by pretending murders
they have never done, actors
purge our desires to do mur-
ders we have never dared.
If we hold a picture by Rem-
brandt up to a mirror we get a
perfect reflection of it, but it is
a very different matter if we try
to copy the same picture, and it
would probably be better to
regard Mr. Quayle as the mirror
rather than as the interpreter of
Shakspeare. As such he gives
forth an excellent reflection, and
so does Miss Wynyard. No de-
tail is omitted that could under-
line the gradual disintegration
of the guilty couple, the chief
merit of whose performance is
that they inspire pity rather than
reprobation.,
Mr. Quayle’s production is as
ferocious as the story. In places
it gets such a rush on that it be-
comes more like opera than
drama. The barbarity of the
costumes is repeated in the set-
tings, and Clement McCallin
adds to the general horror by
appearing as the corpse, rather
than the ghost, of Banquo.
Harry Andrews provides a
powerful Macduff. The witches
aren’t convincing, but they never
have been.
"A Marriage of
Convenience. "
Both the producer, William
Rees, and the cast of “A
Marriage of Convenience,” by
Dumas fils (Independent
Theatre; Wednesdays and
Thursdays), can be compli-
mented for the considerable
polish imparted to the play.
They can, therefore, also be
criticised for not polishing it
quite enough—they have gone
so far in the right direction that
their object is as plain as the
fact that they fall just short of it.
The time (1750) and the place
(the mansion of the Comte de'
Candale); the characters (the
Comte, a beautifully poised and
polished philanderer; his wife,
innocence just out of a con-
vent ; and the Chevalier de
Valclos, an equally p. and p.
philanderer) and the situation
(the Comte and his wife just
married in fulfilment of a family
arrangement but not interested
in each other in the slightest);
and, above all, the author’s
brilliant construction and dia-
logue—all those demand a pro-
duction and acting to give the
piece a sweeping gracefulness, a
poise and flashing thrust upon
thrust of dialogue.
The Independent show hasn’t
quite those qualities—it gleams
where it should flash ; it poses
gracefully where it shouldn’t
seem to pose, and the dialogue
is given those slight luxurious
pauses and emphasis which
make it more of an exhibition
match than the real, spirited
thing.
Still, all of it goes so close to
hitting what it aims at that it is
highly entertaining—the kind of
entertainment one thoroughly
enjoys with the perhaps unfair
but unavoidable reservation of
thinking how well, say, the
Oliviers would have polished off
the same thing. Camilla Lay is
the Comtesse, a little too
conscious of it, but all inno-
cent beauty slowly realising its
feminine strength. Kenneth
Fowles, the Comte, and Richard
Meikle, the Chevalier, are the
particular two who do most of
the polishing, and do ft well
without doing enough of it;
they are also the pair who toss
off most of the dialogue very
lightly, but first masticate it a
little too thoroughly; and,
despite their faults, they are also
the pair who contribute the most
to the night’s entertainment.
"A House Is Built. "
Although M. Barnard Elder-
shaw’s “A House Is Built” is a
leisurely family chronicle,
Eunice Hanger’s dramatised ver-
sion as presented by Brisbane’s
Twelfth Night Theatre made the
most of the dramatic material
offering without sacrificing the
sweep and color of the original.
Even more drastic pruning would
have improved an over-luxuriant
first act,
Rhoda Felgate’s production
was admirable, and her method
of allowing the main characters
to step out of the pages of a
gigantic model of the book over-
came the chief difficulty incurred
by any play requiring a roll-up
of thirty-two speaking parts.
All the women in the cast
caught the spirit and sense of
history that make the book
memorable. Outstanding were
Marjorie Mant’s development of
Fanny Hyde, Beryl Marshall’s
gentle Adela, Diana Bell’s superb
portrait of not-so-young Esther
Gage, and Dawn Rees’s handling
of the complex character of
Laurel Franklin.
The male roles were not so
uniformly good, but James
Stevens’s “Quartermaster,” if not
the massive personality of the
book, was a commanding
presence, and Gwynn Jones’s
portrayal of the unhappy James
Hyde, Junior, was worth watch-
ing.
"Eugen Onegin. "
Greatly daring, the National
Theatre Movement put on
Tschaikowsky’s “Eugen Onegin”
at the Princess, probably its first
Melbourne showing. Pushkin, a
great realist, wrote the simple
story, and the composer’s brother
Modeste made the libretto, and
the result is like a tale by
Chekhov set to music. Onegin
is a typical Chekhovian land-
owner who retires to his estate
sated with society’s pleasures and
blaming the world in general for
his discouragement and boredom.
Tatiana, the dreamy daughter
of a neighboring landowner, is
shaken out of her reading of
romantic novels by the appari-
tion of the young man who
seems the realisation of her
dreams, although anybody else
could see he is as stiff as
buckram; and she writes him a
passionate letter which makes
him more stiff than ever. He is
shaken slightly out of his
moroseness when his friend
Lenski, the poet, insults him at
a party and he fights a duel and
kills him. Then he goes wander-
ing in foreign countries for 26
years.
In the meantime the romantic
country maiden has married a
prince and become a brilliant
woman of the world, and Onegin
sees her again at a ball in St.
Petersburg. As a married woman
she can’t make the same inroads
on his freedom as she couid as
an unmarried maiden, and he
falls as violently in love with her
as she had formerly with him.
She discovers she still loves him,
but decides to remain true to her
duty and to her husband and
Onegin retires, broken-hearted
no doubt, but as stiff as ever.
Local criticism said that James
Wilson was badly cast as
Onegin. He probably couldn’t
have been cast better. He was
so incredibly stiff that he seemed
disturbingly real, and it was
quite surprising to hear sounds
coming out of him at all, but
his baritone voice contained
some of the feeling Tschai-
kowsky put into his music.
Betna Pontin was also well cast.
As Tatiana she was a sweet,
pathetic morsel, and her pure
soprano followed the line of
Tschaikowsky’s music as flexibly
as her emotions. Ronald Dowd
had the loveliest aria in the play
as Lenski, and his fine tenor was
equal to it. The orchestra under
Hans Zander showed inspiration
in several places, and the chorus
and the dancers gave vigor to
the background.
The proverbial luck of Hector
Crawford prevailed at the latest
“Music for the People” concert
at Melbourne Botanic Gardens,
Jupiter Pluvius, after a month of
continuous bad temper, smiling
on the ducks, the flowerbeds, the
lawns, the lakes and approxi-
mately 100,000 people in a burst
of glorious spring weather. Guil-
foyle’s stunning backcloth never
looked better, and, in fact, the
setting was so splendid that the
music hardly got a look-in. How-
ever, a few thousand of the popu-
lation heard the Australian
Symphony Orchestra in a good
performance of Handel’s “Water
Music,” the Meistersingers’
Overture, three dances from
“The Bartered Bride” and
Sibelius’s “Finlandia,”


THE OLD HUSSAR DEPOT
By J. H. MELVILLE
THE old hussar depot, a collapsing
structure no more pretentious than
a shed with plate-glass windows,
should never have been used as a
shop. Old-timers of the township, some
of whom had served in the militia of the
’nineties under the celebrated Major
Hubbard, referred to the place yet as
Hubbard’s cupboard, and though it may
have served well enough the purpose it
was built for, a load of regret would have
been saved if it had been, completely
fenced off long ago.
Marking a dead-end, where the road
tapered off to a rutted quarry track, it
was a snare for investors whose ambition
had outrun both their means and judg-
ment. Though a place of such forlorn
aspect, its faults were apparently easily
overlooked when it was viewed as a start
on the way to business success.
And a miserable record of starters it
had, too. Mostly they came and went as
humbly as the old hussar depot itself
sidled up to the road. Abandoned be-
tween times to spiders and borer, the
windows would be stocked one morning
with fruit or vegetables, and people would
note disinterestedly that the place was
open again. Drapings of wallpaper had
made a brief show, and occasionally
fancy-work had been timidly arranged.
Once it had been fish, and the fish-
monger and his family of nine had some-
how found room to live behind the parti-
tion. But only until his blue van made
its last trip through the township, with
a swarm of youngsters yelling and Arch
Thumwood posted at the door of his own
fish-shop to wave them out. True, some
occupants had > stayed long enough to
grumble about pine-needles blocking
their spouting and about crockery being
broken when the traction - engines
clanked home down a common right-of-
way.
People never took Hubbard’s cup-
board seriously as a shop. Generally they
viewed it with a sort of .jumble-stall
flippancy.
An easy beginning was offered blandly
there and disillusionment dawned like-
wise, as gently and insistently as the
spiralling pine-needles fell round about.
Even Lunar Carey’s “funeral parlor”
across the road—designed in compromise
Gothic to suit the pickings of demolition
jobs-—was a thing of bold purpose by
comparison. The old depot was no place
for sensational business collapses.
Departures ( were mostly furtive affairs.
The windows would suddenly be empty,
and behind the partition the walls left a
little grubbier after each usage of the
smoky stove. A painter had made a
habit of wiping his brushes behind the
door, and this surrealistic daubing re-
mained to mark his tenancy. The back
window was patched with cycle tubing,
and as another token from a dispiriting
past one of the tissue fruit-wrappers
stuffed round the manhole would
occasionally come fluttering down. And,
having failed the painter, cycle-dealer,
fruiterer and the rest could not but go
without some degree of the old hussar
depot’s mood of dejection clouding their
own experience. As each victim sub-
mitted to the spirit of the place, he added
his weight to its influence.
SUCH was the prospect facing the new
barber who had come to set up busi-
ness'there.
“I can’t see the poor coot —Knee or
Morton or whatever his name is—lasting
more than three months along there,” said
Rab Bowen, who ran a barber-shop
further down. Bowen’s shop had a
modern frontage, and Rab was
generous in his sympathy. Too bad that
this Morton Knee had put good com-
pensation money into buying a place like
that —the new barber had lost most of
his hearing in a mine accident. “I’d be
only too glad to give him a job myself,
but the game won’t stand it, not with that
spare-time barbering going on at the pub.”
Bowen spoke with a glib and facile
concern for fairness, an attitude common
to the more sporting of his bookmaking
custom.
Lunar Carey, too, was interested in
the new barber’s coming, being a
neighbor, so to speak, by virtue of his
funeral parlor across the road. He gave
unctuous expression to the hope that the
man’s “dreadful affliction” would earn
him sympathetic support. This was said,
no doubt, with the thought in mind of
Bowen’s saloon, which he deplored as a
rogues’ den, but nevertheless Lunar was
very free with his tag of “dreadful afflic-
tion,” seeming to see hope in that direc-
tion that the sufferer would be beaten
into shape for salvation. Most people
distrusted Lunar’s reticence, feeling that
he was often silent for reasons of busi-
ness goodwill. But he was a self-
righteous man; and a few, who were
wiser perhaps, saw his affectation as an
outcome of unhappiness and not the
cause of it.
Anyway, from his cordial greeting to a
signwriter at work on the old depot it
was evident that he was pleased to see
the place being made ready. This was a
sign of its survival; and it fitted so well
into the neighborhood he desired to retain
for his funeral parlor. The tranquillity
of the service he offered was, in fact, a
point he stressed unfailingly. A garage,
say, where the depot stood, might have
been anything but tranquil. As it was
there was only the seasonal brief passing
of the traction-engines and an occasional
truck carting from the quarry.
The signwriter, painting out a saddler’s
name that had weathered remarkably
well for its twenty years, appraised it with
an old tradesman’s reverence for quality
and made a distasteful comparison with
the stuff in his paint-pot.
“The new paint looks nice and shiny
with the sun on it,” Lunar observed.
“All shine and no guts,” the signwriter
said.
Lunar drew from this a telling moral
before he crossed over to his parlor.
WHEN he came out into the sunshine
half an hour or so later, with the
odor of disinfectant clinging to his
clothes, a shameless spectacle met his
eyes.
A young woman was up on the ledge
with the signwriter—the new barber’s
wife, so he was told. And she was
scandalously dressed. A few scraps of
tartan material were knotted precariously
round her, while on her head she wore
an elaborate sun-hat. A group of men,
mostly shopkeepers, watched from below,
having stolen along to discuss such things
as the history of the old hussar depot
and the finer points of signwriting—the
charms of the barber’s wife was a topic
that was for the most part self-consciously
avoided. Rab Bowen was
there and Boy Daniels,
from the orchard.
The hussy was actually
painting, Lunar observed.
Guided by the signwriter,
she was filling in a decora-
tion that swirled away
from the name of “M. G.
Knee.”
“Nicely done,” called
Boy Daniels, always the
loud-mouthed lady-killer,
“Let’s give the lady a
clap.”
Boy clapped loudly
enough to make up for
the lack of response
among the . rest. Lunar
kept his hands behind
him, clasped unnecessarily
hard.
“This one’s for luck,”
the barber’s wife retorted
gaily.
Lunar smiled back in-
voluntarily—a smile like a
vault-door hanging ajar.
“You were born lucky,”
Boy Daniels shouted.
The barber’s wife
ignored him and went on
painting. Then, as the
fancy seemed to take her,
she turned slowly to ask with a look of
intense and artless wonderment, “Why
was I born lucky?”
She was a buxom woman with heavy
features. Her movements on the ledge
were not graceful. Her smile was a
dazzler that seemed to charge to capacity
on naive and random interests.
Boy Daniels guffawed knowingly.
“Ask Jock or Walter,” he retorted, push-
ing his candidates forward.
Lunar moved away. Beyond her spell,
he had no reason to feel proud of his
weakness. But, alas, the Tempter takes
cunning form.
Hearing her provocative laughter as he
went, he must have felt less happy about
the tranquillity of the neighborhood,, and
recalled the gay women who had been
drawn to the howling irresponsible parties
in the days when the cycle-dealer had
occupied the depot. At least, such com-
pany had not helped to prolong the cycle-
dealer’s tenancy.
Lunar spoke with more feeling now of
the new barber’s “dreadful affliction,”
__ TTTArt , , , , . „
“We? , s , how ha ? a ,-, d , t, 80 ,!
of holding a flier like that/ Rab
Bowen asked, when he was cutting Boy
Daniels’s hair some time later-Friday
evening it must have been, because the
P' l P^ rs wer f marching outside.
Henry Lumb, the banker, answered,
faffing, might run you out of a
JO *h ßab - . ,
The ban ker, a dapper man with a com-
P lexi , on that a woman might well envy,
a Y back on the couch and filled the
saloon with fumes from a noxious black
P'P 6 - , , n
Bowen grunted That woman of his 11
be making trouble for him betore you
caia sa Y kmie.
B °y Hamels said £° tb ! ng as
clippers stripped off his bristly hair. His
sil< r nce was unusual. Ordinarily Boy was
animated by urgent strident opinions
. seem ed to feel that the distinction of
having once left the orchard for a two-
yea *? college education was in constant
nee , d of e mphasis, and was thus prone to
outbursts of knowledge ranging from
astronomy to child psychology.
“Would you be losing any sleep over
their troubles, Rab?” the banker asked,
He had a gentle smile that disclaimed all
harshness, no matter what his words.
Bo^ en turned with a big mans de-
Sinuous whiSlh?’iS£
* habh before sneakimr “Run him out
a , ba -f, s P eakmg - , Run bim ,.°, u
* ia 1 1 queue Jt 1 r n 1
8 , _ ~ ,
H I was so keen I could have gone
alon S there lor a haircut.
“You will, before long.” Bowen rubbed
oil vigorously into his customer’s hair.
“You’ll be like the others.”
“Losing trade already, Rab?”
“Oh,” she exclaimed, “I’ve done it again.”
“I’ll do all right.”
The banker smiled. “You’re a bit
touchy all the same.”
BOY DANIELS was out of the chair
by now. Tongue clicking, he moved
back against the comer-shelf where he
could address the other two.
“I’ve been sitting there listening to you
two jokers,” he began, pained and
bearing. “You’ve, got it all wrong. Mrsv,
Knee”
“Beryl,” Rab Bowen put in scoffingly.
“Right then —Beryl. She’s out to make
a go of things and to help her husband,
and just because she’s young and a bit
lively you jokers think it’s smart to run
her down.”
The purple tinting Bowen’s face
darkened and overspread his broad chin.
“Why don’t you go along there for your
haircut, too, Boy? Wouldn’t you like her
to hold your hand?”
“That’s got nothing to do with it. I
like a fair deal, and you jokers are going
over the odds.”
The banker had climbed into the chair.
“They’re up against it in that dump as it
is,” he said, obviously trying to deflect
personal feelings. “Nobody lasts there.”
“Boy here’ll be glad to help her to
pack up when they go,” Bowen said.
“I’d do anything I could for them.”
“Perhaps she’d make a good house-
keeper.”
This jibe referred to Boy’s trouble in
finding a housekeeper. No suitable local
woman was so careless of her reputation
as to take the job. And the disillusioned
return of applicants to employment-
agencies in town had caused them to
strike him off their lists. Boy’s require-
ments were amorously inclined.
“And why shouldn’t she make a good
housekeeper?” Daniels was annoyed now
and his voice was raised. He was strug-
gling into a military-style overcoat, and
his close-cropped head surmounting the
upturned collar gave to his face the look
of a hedgehog emerging from under its
spikes.
“Goodness knows, they'll be needing
another job soon enough,” commented
the man in the chair.
“What about her husband?” Bowen
asked, not willing to miss a point. “You’d
find him a job in the orchard, perhaps?”
“I could.”
Rab Bowen grunted.
Boy threw some coins on to the
counter. “We’re square,” he snapped,
and walked out.
“That’s the last you’ll see of him, Rab.”
Bowen nodded. “As long as the opposi-
tion lasts, anyway.”
The banker gave his gentle smile.
“There’ll be a job waiting for her out at
Daniels’s orchard.”
In a tone of rueful considered judg-
ment Rab Bowen said “I don’t wish
either of them any harm.”
NO doubt he meant
what he said. He was
too apathetic to be a
spiteful man. But the
rumor that the new bar-
ber’s wife had a second-
string job housekeeping
out at Daniels’s orchard—
did her no good. The
reputation of women pas-
sing through the old hussar
depot was not easily
established at any time. A
lingering disrepute counted
against her.
The example of other
women of the depot was
recalled. Apart from the
cycle-dealer’s wild crowd,
there had been Janey,
daughter of a Scotch
fruiterer. Then there had
been the permanent-wav-
ing woman, slinky and
aloof, whose admirers had
called for her in shiny
new cars. Janey had
hiked. Her appeal had
been of a more elemental,
forthright nature. Neither
of them, though, had been
offered the job of keeping
house at Daniels’s. Boy
did have certain standards, and neither
Janey nor the permanent-waving woman
had matched them.
So the new woman’s way of following
suit was becoming apparent. She had
been warned, too. “And what thanks did
I get?” asked the gushing, red-headed


woman who had done this good
deed. She asked it of her cronies in the
supper-room of the A. & P. Hall, while
through an open door they were watch-
ing Boy Daniels, who was pumping his
flexed arm enthusiastically and thread-
ing the new barber’s wife through a
pattern of questioning dancers. Boy’s
partner was exciting enough to make the
men both envious of him and aware of
the shortcomings of their own partners.
Sensing this, the women were resentful.
Wholesale sympathy for the new barber
was expressed that night in the supper-
room. That he would have to face a
future with a woman like that was the
worst misfortune. Having to give up
business in the old hussar depot would be
among the least of his troubles. He
should be told. Shame and misery were
what lay in store for him out at Daniels’s
orchard. Not much could be expected
of Old Man Daniels, either. He and Boy
were two of a kind —squabbled all day,
so it was said. My word, wouldn’t the
doubters have their eyes opened when it
became plain what sort of hussy the new
barber’s wife really was! Anyway, that
was the opinion of the supper-room.
These detractors, though, who sat in
judgment, led lives that were rooted and
conventional. Their security was not in
hazard to the old hussar depot’s wretched-
ness and sorry past. The place should
never have been used for a shop.
KJ EVERTHELESS, it housed quite an
1 audience on the Friday evening when
Boy Daniels eventually put his proposi-
tion. Two flashy hands from Dave’s
stables were among the customers wait-
ing, as also was a Salvation Army man
and Hume Fleat. Old Hume, not giving
a dump for anybody, lolled in a chair in
front of the fire.
Inside, the place had been newly parti-
tioned apd relined. Shiny linoleum
covered the floor of the saloon and the
tiny front shop; and even though
tobacco-smoke fogged the air the clean
smell of paint persisted. There were no
sweepings of hair pushed into odd corners
as at Rab Bowen’s,
“The little lady shaved old Seelye-Hunt,
I hear,” Boy Daniels had declared, march-
ing over to the chair when his turn came.
“I’ll have the same as his Worship.”
He waved aside the new barber, an
amiable-looking man whose beetling
brows and coarse hair seemed to mark a
plodder.
“Really,” the barber’s wife protested,
“that was all in fun.”
“I’m waiting, my dear.”
“No, no.”
Boy was adamant. “I said I’m waiting,
my dear.”
She turned to her husband, gesturing
quickly and mouthing a few silent words.
He regarded the man in his chair without
much favor, then nodded reluctantly and
went over to stoke the fire. He had an
unhealthy pallor, but was tall and of
powerful build.
BOY relaxed happily under her atten-
tion, and the thin, hook-nosed stable-
hand affected a cough.
“I’m not a good barber,” she said,
obviously self-conscious.
Boy was not convinced. “Nonsense.
A clever girl like you can turn her hand
to anything.”
The hook-nosed stable-hand coughed
again.
“Think you’ll do well here?” Boy
blurted out.
“We hope to do well.”
“You won’t last six months, my dear.
Not here.”
She was shaving with short cautious
strokes. He spoke at every chance he
got.
“This was the best place we could get.”
“Faugh!” Boy exclaimed, blowing out
lather. “A girl with those brown eyes of
yours could get anything she wanted.”
He patted her hand, heavily patronising.
She stepped back. “Oh, dear, I’ve cut
you.”
“Pooh, what’s a little cut!”
Boy settled down in the chair, ogling
her with his little eyes.
Over at the fire old Hume was smiling
wearily. Women were the bane of his
retirement, and getting his hair cut each
time he came to pay a duty visit to his
niece was a good excuse to get away from
her. His opinion of women barbers was
evidently not high.
“A pretty girl wants more from life
than this,” Boy got out, when next she
paused to clean her razor.
She resumed shaving. With easy pre-
sumption he stroked out the wrinkles of
her smock.
“Oh,” she exclaimed, “I’ve done it
again.”
Boy felt his cheek and his fingers came
away bloodstained.
“F-f-f-f-f-f,” sounded through old
Hume’s moustache.
The barber, making a pretence of stok-
ing the fire, was glancing round appre-
hensively.
AT his next opportunity, Boy said, “I’ve
been thinking what I could do to help
you. I’d like to do something for you,
my dear.”
“Oh, dear!”
“You’ve nicked me again?”
“Yes.”
Blood was spreading through the lather
left on his face. He showed his forgive-
ness by tapping her cheek affectionately.
For this she cut him under the chin.
But he paid no heed this time. He
was anxious to make his point while
there was time. “I’ve got a nice little
place out on the stream bank,” he said
quickly. “There’s just father and I.
Electric-range, hot and cold water and
all you’d want, and there’s a job keeping
house for us whenever you want it. Your
evenings will —ooh!”
Having had to cut him again, she
looked despairingly towards her husband.
Her mouth was set and tense.
“I’m not hurt,” Boy assured her, taking
her concern to be for him. “I heal easy.”
The hooked-nose stablehand sat
goggling now.
She forced herself to finish shaving
him.
“And I could find something for your
husband to do pottering about the orchard
—as long as you want him,” Boy pro-
mised. “So what’s your answer to be,
my dear?”
Biting her lip, she cut him across the
cheek-bone.
Here the Salvation Army man inter-
vened : “I should think, Mr. Daniels,
that you’d already had your answer.”
Boy, disillusioned, smiled wryly and
grabbed at her for support as he rose
from the chair. She fell against him.
“Gawdstruth! ”
He whipped up his hand and felt
gingerly at his throat. By accident or
intent, the back of her razor had appa-
rently pressed against him. But he had
not been cut again. His face was in a
bad enough mess as it was. He was
dabbing with a handkerchief, first at one
side and then the other.
Half-sobbing but defiant, the barber’s
wife then challenged the waiting cus-
tomers :
“Anybody else like me to do them?”
She held out just for a moment for
any response and then rushed crying
from the saloon.
THOSE who came along later in the
evening to look her over were dis-
appointed. They were educated instead
by seeing the barber give a display of
hairdressing artistry that made of Rab
Bowen a dithering bungler, and this
though his wife, as hearing interpreter,
had not felt able to return.
But all that, of course, happened before
the old hussar depot was pulled down.
There is a new shop there now; and
from a brick bungalow behind it the
barber’s tribe of young larrikins roam
the neighborhood in search of birds’-
nests, blackberries, mushrooms and in
a host of other pursuits that only they
understood. Their lack of proper respect
for Lunar Carey’s funeral parlor across
the road is shocking.
The Book.
There is a book in my brain,
Impressed, before I knew,
Translucent on my seeing.
From whose emphatic being,
Italicised, my hell and heaven grew.
Before I had words to breed,
Preceding polite law,
Sphinx sovereigns, mystic play
Were burrowing away
The nescience, the hillock of my awe.
I’d turn the human range
Of crisp philosophy,
Cynical fairy lands
With new existent hands
Awash in conjuring and cruelty.
Feeling authority.
Enticed by the decision
Of wood or magic face
To entertain a race
That wander still through my adapted
vision.
Their same illusory
Capafison is fresh,
Despising surface bliss
Or crawling silences.
Contemptuous at the fiction of the flesh.
N.Z.
J. CAMERON SMITH.
Happily Ever After
By DAVID ROWBOTHAM
HIS face had slumped from the hard-
ness assumed as a result of his
several initially-exhilarating but
finally disturbing and unsuccessful
love affairs in youth to the baggy-cheeked,
double-chinned attitude whose com-
ponents he himself described as “residue.”
He was now moving towards what
Somerset Maugham would call the
clinkers of middle age. His hair had a
fissure in the middle, his eyes were
almost shuttered by their corticated lids,
his complexion was furzed by a day-or-
so’s growth and each ear set at right-
angles to its temple. His nose was negli-
gible, since, in looking at him, it was the
last and the least appurtenance one
noticed.
He had a habit when talking of parting
his lips after each utterance and darting
his tongue between them, blue-lizard
fashion, and, when listening, of manipu-
lating his expression to indicate that he
was hearing every word when in reality
his mind was a blank, his stomach crack-
ling like fierce far-away thunder from
sheer hunger, and forefinger idly strok-
ing its fellow.
He was incredibly poor and alone. He
had long ago given up hankering for the
one position in the world he desired, and
he knew he had not the ability to reach
or occupy, that of dentist, and resigned
himself to his continual unemployment,
not so much a predicament as a state he
had dreamed upon himself in his madden-
ing ambitious days. He seemed to be a
Socialist, but the extent or nature of his
political predilections could only be sur-
mised by one remark: that the poo?
begat more children than the rich be-
cause the rich could afford twin-beds. He
confessed himself a great believer in the
devil, whom he knew, by personal experi-
ence, existed, and held that until religions
could agree about religion and God and
His good works became less cliqueish,
his faith would remain a conventionally
unacceptable one.
He had a weakness for teeth still —his
own were natural and perfect—and for
ballads, unmentionable or Otherwise.
When he was seen going through the
motions of drinking water without any
of the calm thankfulness associated with
the quaffing of water when one is thirsty,
it was obvious that he hadn’t been able
to beg or borrow ninepence for a beer.
Like many beer drinkers, he had a
grimacing prejudice against tea, but
nevertheless accepted angelically a cupful
the day the Salvation Army man offered
it to him in lieu of a loan, and so con-
trived to impress his earnest helper by his
polite attention to the sermon dispensed
with the beverage that he was given two
shillings for a meal, which he assiduously
squandered on two schooners and salted
peanuts.
He was contented, untidy and, though
mendicant, not miscreant nor a pest. He
could sting you in the most manly and
jocular manner. Often the most thrifty
hands had delved for a coin at his lick-
lip overtures. He didn’t have a stock
phrase in his vocabulary; each with the
gesture it accompanied—a tip of the hat,
a pull at a tieless collar, an innocuous
thumbing of braces, an eloquent turn of
the palm at frayed trouser-seam, a special
unshuttering of one honest-to-goodness
eye—was a wonder of impromptu. He
forced an impression on the mind that
remained conspicuous for minutes after-
wards even if the person accosted couldn’t
give him a penny.
He had some marvellous luck on April
the First last, for the pound-note he
patiently stood upon in Hyde Park and
picked up when at last he felt certain he
was unobserved proved not to be an
April Fool’s Day hoax, a fraud or an
illusion after all. It was so genuine he
got breezily drunk on part of it and,
beaming, took the other part with him to
the restaurant from which he had been
ejected a week back because of his over-
sight in eating a meal he had no possible
hope of paying for. Large-natured,
happy and steaming, he now paid for the
illicit meal, ordered another, smiled an
almost miraculous smile at the waitress
and, hailing the manager, assigned him
the comradely name of George while he
complimented the house on its past con-
sideration for his feelings, for despite the
fact that they had slightly discommoded
him they had been merciful enough not
to enlist the authority of the law.
He disposed of a heavy four-course
meal—oyster soup, spaghetti milanaise,
a mixed grill and steamed pudding—and
sipped, with the air of a wine connoisseur
somewhat advanced and pleasantly
fuddled at his job, strong black sugarless
coffee. He was almost delirious with joy.
He requested cigarettes. “Sorry, sir, we -
don’t stock them, but the boy will go and
get some for you.”
The management found his humor in-
fectious. He tipped the boy sixpence
when the perspiring little fellow returned.
He smoked, smiled, stretched luxuriously
and studied his check, and although his
appearance and odor diverted incoming
patrons from his table so that he sat
islanded like a broken-down celebrity in
the middle of the cafd, he gathered the
whole atmosphere to him, licked at it
with appreciation, blew at it with delight,
nodded in it self-sufficiently.
When he rose to go his chair retired
behind him, the table teetered, lacking
the animation for any more respectful
gesture, and in his imagination the whole
room stood up. He trudged like a pauper
king towards the responsible-looking
woman behind the cash-register, passed
over his check and a ten-shilling note as
if he was giving a dispatch to a grateful
follower and tipped her out of the change,
almost in a courtly fashion, head down,
and even ventured a wink at her embar-
rassment.
Rattling the coins in his pocket, the
Ardath cornered in his smile accumulat-
ing a long ash, he emerged from the
restaurant, carried its illusion like a sash
on his squared shoulders beyonddhe kerb,
magnanimously ignored the traffic, and
was run over by a chocolate company’s
van.
He died oblivious of the fact that night
in the Sydney Hospital, undramatically,
unmelodramatically, just as the Town
Hall clock struck twelve above George-
street. The dozen beats assembled them-
selves into a diapason round their tower,
then rose above St. Andrews, curled high
over Bebarfald’s comer, skipped three
blocks, whirled around the lights in Hyde
Park and swept, echoing, along
Macquarie-street, whence the Harbor
drew them down and smothered them,
and carried them in silence out between
the Heads to the Pacific sea. And
pacing like a jubilant ghost on the water,
hands in pockets and staggering now and
then with a prosperous dignity, a tattered
shadow went with them, gay, jaunty,
familiar, still living the best day of its life.
Ampersand.
I lie between the black & white,
The half-tone eve, the twilight grey.
Slip like a shadow, curl like a cat
After the night, before the day.
Between the sea & shore I make
My scribbled, fluent, changing line;
The earth & air would join in one
But that their meeting-place is mine.
With bell & book —a hand to each —
I banish chaos from the scene
For, think, unless I interposed,
Yellow & blue would run to green.
I stand between the left & right
Tall as a post to point the ways
For sinners & saints, who’d all unite —
But I prevent—to sing my praise.
I am the twenty-seventh child,
The last-born of the alphabet,
Yet Kings & Queens reserve a place —
Between them Ampersand is set.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


NEPTUNE'S FEET OF CLAY
By MACNELL
IN our war-time destroyer there was
usually plenty of talk about, from the
last run ashore to the ghastly sight
those Jap submariners made floating
face-up in the dark with the lights of their
lifejackets shining eerily on their faces the
night the old girl’s depth-charges split
open their submarine off Moresby. But
for weeks the tragedy of Big Bob’s sudden
finish was the talk of wardroom and
mess-deck —except, of course, when the
new captain was around.
It was tragic because, among destroyer
captains (the finest ship-handlers afloat),
Big Bob was a master. And, as seaman-
ship has more to do with staying afloat
in destroyer actions than with accurate
gunnery, he was as well a superb fighter.
In our craft there was little of the spit-
and-polish, saluting discipline of a bigger
ship; but if an order was given, from
the Old Man down to the newest leading-
hand, it was obeyed at the double. His
men hated Big Bob’s guts ; and they
would have followed him anywhere.
is an urgent lower-deck term
h which means danger—from approach-
ing officers. “U-boat” whispered through
the mess-decks will clear skulkers out and
crown-and-anchor boards away in double-
quick time. The morning of the day that
began the events which cast Big Bob, a
man in the prime of vitality, on to the
beach was calm and hot. The ship had
slipped from Hollandia early and was
going about its normal duties. “B” gun,
just below the bridge, was drilling, not
too fast or too interestedly—which was
to be expected of a crew with its experi-
ence.
Suddenly the breechworker, who was
standing and facing the bridge, hissed
“U-boat!”
The gun’s crew responded immediately.
Running, ramming and roaring, they
stepped up the loading, feeding 16 a
minute into the -ugly maws of the twin
4.7’5, working in the sweaty heat as
though the devil sailors was close
astern —as he was.
Leaning his bulk on both arms out-
stretched on the bridge windbreak, a
once-white canvas tennis-hat jammed on
his head so that it drooped round his ears,
Commander R. A. Mailed, D. 5.0., alias
Big Bob the Bruiser, watched “B” gun
at drill with a scowl wrinkling his leathery
face and suppressed laughter twisting his
innards. He had heard the warning “U-
-boat! ” as his head appeared on the bridge
and knew its meaning, though he had
forgotten for how many years. What this
destroyer captain did not know was that
the disciplined efficiency he exacted from
his crew, the increased tempo of “B’s”
drilling, was not solely a result of fear
of punishment, but had its real root in
the grudging respect even the saltiest of
his seamen accorded his seamanship, A
sailor can forgive bad gunnery; he is
not much concerned whether torpedoes
run straight or at all; but of a successful
captain he demands the highest efficiency
in seamanship. And whatever else Big
Bob was, he was a destroyer man through
and through.
He waited until the gunner’s mate in
charge called a halt. Then he growled
down to the breech workers in particular,
the panting bunch in general ; “Number
Two’s! Next time you drill ease the
tension on your b.m. levers. I want all-
about gun-captains— not muscle-bound
Hercules.” He stepped back out of sight
to the chart-table.
“The b ! ” snarled Number Two of
the left; and repeated the epithet—his
vocabulary was not very extensive, “He’s
been on the grog again in Hollandia.”
“Well,” grinned his fuse-setter, “he's
right, ain’t he?”
That was the thing about Big Bob.
Most officers knew as much about drill
detail as the crews knew about star-sights.
But this bloke knew all the wrinkles,
almost as though he had come up through
the hawsepipe himself. In some respects
Saturday-morning rounds, for instance
a bad thing ; in others —what they were
headed into round the Jap-held Halma-
heras —a decidedly helpful attribute,
BUT the captain had forgotten “B”
gun. On the white chart, under a
hand with fingers like bananas, a thin
black line threaded a course through the
tiny figures that were the soundings, and
the small spiked oblongs like thistledown
carelessly flung on to an iced cake that
were the reefs of Japen Strait.
“Pilot! ” The navigator hovering behind
the bent-over body was beside it in an
instant. “I’ve laid off a new course, 20
miles outside yours.” The captain did not
bother to explain why. He had trained
his bridge team, and he knew the
navigator, who had seen the latest intel-
ligence report of enemy aircraft, would
appreciate searching radar’s disadvantages
too close in under the high littoral.
“Take her out now. I’ll be in my sea-
cabin.”
“Aye, aye, sir!”
The captain took a checking look round
at the ladder-head, more instinctive than
necessary. On all sides the sea reached
clear to the south and east, bounded by
New Guinea to port. Astern the ship laid
a vanishing furrow upon a sea that had
the surface and shimmer of an undulating
piece of blue silk. Above him a slowly
turning radar aerial shot its stream of
searching electrodes into a matching-blue
vault, from which the sun’s rays fell
steeply. Over the starb’d bow a faint
smudge broke the horizon’s even rim. It
was the visible warning of the weather
he’d been expecting.
He ran lightly with practised ease down
the, ladder. A glance at the lounging
telegraph-man in the wheelhouse stif-
fened him like a rail. Then the Old Man
was in his cabin, and the bridge heaved
a collective sigh of relief.
THE storm advanced its black curtains
up the dome of the sky, dripping long
streamers of rain into the sea. The first
breath of wind reached us, then a stronger
puff, icy cold. It grew rapidly in force,
and from the bridge you could see its
hand, like a menacing shadow, pass rip-
pling over the darkening water ahead.
Soon it was a rising whine in the rigging,
and the ship began to move a little. In
an hour she was wetting her nose, with
the wind whipping the crests of near-by
swells into smoke.
When the Old Man came on the bridge
at noon with a signal in his hand she was
bucking, her bows drinking deep of the
seas which now and then exploded over
the stem in a spray of flung white. A
lather of salt swept the bridge as he made
it. The Gunner, officer of the watch,
ducked behind the binnacle; Big Bob
took it in his face.
He tugged his canvas hat down against
the plucking slap of the wind and yelled
at the Gunner.
“Seen this signal, Guns? Right! Tell
the engine-room I’ll want full steam at
1400. Trust a blasted merchantman to
break down in this weather. If he’s out
of luck the rip will have him on Japan
before we can hook on to him. Let’s
have a look at the map—and tell the first-
lieutenant I want him.”
The Gunner grinned as he ordered the
bosun’s mate below with the message.
He was probably in the Old Man’s con-
fidence more than any other of the ward-
room. He had came up through the
hawsepipe, had forgotten more about
practical gunnery and seamanship than
the others knew, and, crowning ability,
could, on occasion, drink Big Bob under
the wardroom table. He knew that if
there was anything Big Bob liked better
than grog it was ship-handling. And in
two hours, with the mercury retreating
and a merchantman helpless in the rips of
Japen Strait, he’d have his gutful.
BIG 808 and the Gunner were
squeezed into the tiny chart-table
under its weather dodger when the first-
lieutenant made the bridge. He was a
husky young man whose main charac-
teristic, apart from a healthy fear of Big
Bob’s wrath, was continually pulling at
a lick of hair that bow-waved over his
forehead. The fact that he was, for his
age, a spund seaman was natural —he
wouldn’t have lasted a dog-watch with the
Old Man if he hadn't been.
Big Bob pulled out as he heard his step.
“Number One, I want our wires flaked
down starb’d side —if I know merchant-
men he won’t have his own ready. Get
a grass and barricoe on deck. Bit breezy
for a gun-line, though I’ll try that. And
have a man aloft —belay that,” as he
glanced up at the masthead. “Guns has
fixed it. Be ready in an hour; and warn
all hands.”
“Aye, aye, sir.”
The lieutenant slid down the bridge-
ladder rails on his hands without touching
a step and bounded aft. This was up his
alley. Responsibility for the cleanliness
of upper-deck paintwork and ’tween-deck
corners was, no doubt, a necessary part
of his normal duties, but one hardly
stimulating. Guns, torpedoes, asdic, radar
—all had their specialists. His baby was
seamanship, and this job the Old Man
and he would share between them.
The crew felt the same. Usually their
seamanship was confined to the routine
exercise of coming alongside, lowering
boats, anchoring and slipping from buoys.
This would have all the pleasure of
novelty—and, with Big Bob handling her
in rough seas close enough to a helpless
ship to get a line across, it promised to
be entertaining. The 2|in. grass was
flaked down aft (it would be the first to
go out, being light and water-borne), then
the heavier manila, to take the weight
of the wire, which was laid in long,
steely fleets on the forepart, its end run-
ning aft to the quarter-deck, ready to be
shackled on to the towing-pendant, an
exceptionally strong, short wire which,
AS THE GREAT PROWS OF SHIPS.
As the great prows of ships into a deep
And endless ocean move and dip and
cleave, ■
We slide into the waters and wastes of
sleep ;
And like their beautiful intransient streams
Diverging washes spread from us, we
leave
Bubbles and dross behind, moving through
dreams.
We are younger than our years, but vastly
older
Than our time. We plunge before, yet
far at the rear
We contemplate events, or stand at your
shoulder
Breathing sedition ? Wisdom ? Ancient
or new
Our words ? If you should hear
Them you must judge, for we are very
few.
And judgments such as those do not pro-
ceed
From our lips. Driven we are and have
no time
To assess, or weigh, pronounce or inter-
cede.
Your order is not ours, we sleep to wake
And wake upon a song-catch or a rhyme,
Who utter riddles, and only give to take.
And yet who take in some mysterious
way
To shower gifts in our own curious kind.
Wrong, right ? Good, bad ? That is for
you to say.
Our skin is thin and pervious, yet we
May cast aside your judgments and not
mind
Your censures, and without pause, in-
exorably
Continue on a course known only to
The man on the bridge. You ask, who is
it stands
Reading the compass steering on the blue
Uncharted waters ? Does he expect to fall
At last on spicy profitable lands?
We do not know, nor can we care at all.
It scarcely seems to matter, within the
bowl
Of the sky; circles of air, the sea a disc;
And measurements of time an endless
whole,
An infinite circle, finite only within
Itself. There is no safety and no risk,
Nothing to gain or gamble, lose or win.
Who has ordained this exile into sleep
That we must turn our backs and look
away
From the dim pretty fringes where you
creep
Happily enough ? Ah, not for such as we
Who, caught between tomorrow and
today,
Explore the limits of our mystery.
Here’s a strange journey; here’s a traffic
strange,
A queer eternal struggle, some compul-
sion
Driving us, ever the same, and yet with
change;
With variations constant as a tide.
Shudders of dreadful joy, or black repul-
sion.
Who is it stands with the compass, who’s
our guide
But beauty ? Without, or of our own con-
struction,
An ever-present, irresistible urge,
Our sole salvation, or our sole destruc-
tion,
Sun blazes fin darkness phosphorescence
glows.
Like prows of splendid ships we glory
and surge.
This present wind behind us, strongly
blows.
You may do as you think best, or as you
please.
Scorn us for angers, curse our impu-
dence :
Yours is the choice, to clutch, retain, your
« ease;
Or listen if you choose and if you care._
Like caustic at, the bondage of your pru-
dence
Our wash of fancy As streaming every-
where.
N.S.W.
NANCY KEESING.


through the quarter-deck bollards, would
be the final link between the merchant-
man and the destroyer’s 40,000 straining
horses. Got ready as well was a barricoe,
to be floated down on a line to make
contact should the Old Man fail to bring
her in close enough. No one expected it
would be used.
NOW the sea was up. Funnelled by
wind and rips into Japen Strait it
mounted a confused acreage of choppy
cross-waves which the destroyer found
disconcerting. She pulled and jerked and
screwed under the thrust of her blades.
Big Bob stood in his usual place for
manoeuvring—hard-up against the bridge
fore windbreak, legs straddled like a pair
of compasses, balancing the roll with his
arms braced before him and the old
canvas hat, soaked now, shrunk tightly
on his bull-necked head.
Squinting through his binoculars he
thought he saw two thin black sticks, like
pencils, just momentarily above the
fanged horizon ahead. A second later the
masthead, forty feet higher, confirmed
him.
“Bridge! Right ahead. Ship, sir.”
The Gunner and navigator glanced at
each other. Big Bob was oblivious to
their admiration—he had grown used to
perfect landfalls. The navigator moved
closer to the wheel-house voice-pipe.
Without shifting position the Old Man
snapped over his shoulder. “Tell the
engine-room.”
At twenty knots, plunging and rearing,
we closed the gap. Through the mist of
wind-whipped spray a yellow light
stuttered from the cripple, now clearly
visible. In accordance with captain’s
orders when manoeuvring, the signalman
shouted its message:
“Can you use your wires? Mine old.”
Vindicated, the Old Man answered:
“Tell him ‘Yes,’ and that I’m coming in
starb’d side to.”
IT was pretty to watch him handle her.
* He slid her stem to starb’d, laying it
for the other’s stern. As the destroyer
answered her rudder and came broadside
on to the seas she rolled wickedly, and
a shiver ran through her as her screws
raced. The merchantman was close now ;
riding easier than they, she yet trailed
long grey beards from her scuppers, and
from the gaff aft her smoky red ensign
streamed out, stiff as a board in the forty-
knot wind. Beyond her, looming
sombrely, waited Japen Island and its
extending reef. We were just in time.
One eye on the captain, the navigator
bent near the voice-pipe. The two ships
were yards apart. Big Bob stood like a
figurehead. Then he came to life. “Port
twenty!”
Round she came, further, till the knifing
bow aimed at the other’s bridge. Not
fast enough.
“Port thirty. Stop port, full ahead
starb’d.”
Under the thrust of rudder and grip-
ping screws her bow pulled off. It
seemed she would make it, within easy
gun-line distance. Then a liquid wall
reared over the bows and crashed in a
smother of white on the forepart. The
ship shuddered. The wave shot aft in a
river that banked against the breakwater
and poured back over her sides in
cascades of watery lace. Her bow fell
off, towards the looming side of the
merchantman.
Another wave slapped her, and before
her thrashing screws could drag her to a
stop, she’d touched. The steel foc’s’le
guard-rails laid themselves flat like
licorice-sticks and a corner of the oerlikon-
platform splinter-shield crumpled into a
steel cave.
Big Bob pulled his hat off, wrung it out,
and clamped it back. “Close, Guns,
close,” he grinned, and took his ship out
for another run.
This time he fined the approach. There
was not time to miss again, nor to haul off
and float a line down on a barricoe, or any
of the other alternatives in the Seaman-
ship Manual. He had to get a line
across by muscle or gun.
As we bore in again we could see the
faces on the merchantman’s bridge and
poop, intent on the long grey shape. At
exactly the right moment Big Bob swung
her like a motor-boat. She slewed, slid
down the side of a wave, reared, kicked
her stern in and spewed a wall of water
over the other’s foc’s’le, so close she was.
On the destroyer’s quarter-deck an arm
swung, a lead-weighted line flew across,
a few minutes’ wait and the first manila
went out. Soon the two ships were
joined by a thin tenuous wire; with the
heavy shackled on, the first-
lieutenant stood clear on the quarter-
deck and crossed his arms above his head.
“Tow passed.”
Big Bob handled her tenderly, going
ahead dead slow till the tow-wire came
out of the water, straightened, tautened,
shook itself like a terrier, and held.
Both ships moved slowly off into the
north.
BIG 808 really turned it on the most
of the next day, in harbor. By 10
o’clock he was roaring. The sub.-lieut.
officer of the day afterwards told us he
had tried to get from the gangway to
the wardroom ahead of the senior naval
officer; but the noise would in any case
have defeated his object. The 5.N.0.,
a four-ringed captain, stepped in on a
riotous tableau of Gunner, navigator and
commander. It brought him up all-
standing. The others came up wobbling.
Big Bob broke the silence. “Ah! Me
old cock. Have a drink!” He followed
the invitation by a stumbling rush of
greeting which was intercepted by a
4in. cartridge ashtray that laid him flat
on his face.
The S.N.O. was brief. “See me in your
cabin,” he ordered, and stalked out.
What happened there is anybody’s
guess. It could not have been pleasant.
After he had seen his caller over the
gangway, Big Bob returned to the ward-
room, roaring for the steward. The room
was empty. Big Bob sat there, morose
and drinking, till midnight. The officer
of the day shook him on the settee in
the morning.
SAILING orders came. We were to
rejoin the flotilla north-west of
Schouten Island. Oif the bridge the Old
Man was in rare form.
“Hunter,” he bellowed from the
bridge to the foc’s’le, “if you part that
bloody wire I’ll part your blasted neck! ”
The young lieutenant crimsoned.
Backing-up the wife round the winch —
the two-and-a-half slip-rope to the buoy
on which the ship was being hove-up
close before slipping—the breechworker
of the left of “B” growled to his mate
behind him: “Fat lot of use phones are
in this ship. I ain’t heard the old
use one yet. In my last ship the Old
Man was a thorough gent; no bawlin’
for him”
He was interrupted by another bellow.
“Slip!”
On the foc’s’le a hammer swung, the
slip fell open, the slip-rope dropped
through the hawsepipe, the big red buoy
surged back through the water with the
sudden release of weight, four hands
ran the wire in dripping through the
bull-ring and the destroyer was under
way. She spawned a smother of white
from her low-hung tail, slewed her stem
and headed for the open sea.
Once outside hands closed up at action
stations, tested through communications
and firing circuits, then fell out. With
“B” and “X” guns and the midship pom-
pom closed up she set course at 15 knots
for the rendezvous.
Big Bob’s harbor vice was, as usual,
left in harbor. Once at sea (ordinarily
at all times, particularly in this area) the
mess was dry; not by regulation but by
unwritten law throughout the Fleet.
We steamed all day, and with dusk
closed up again for action. Then, tested
through, the ship darkened and, her main
eyes the radar aerial spinning above the
gunnery director, she settled down for
the dangerous run through the night.
WHEN the alarm-bells rang Big Bob
was eating his supper. He was on
the bridge in five seconds. The first-
lieutenant enlightened him swiftly.
“Surface contact on Red two O about
eight miles, sir. Big ship, either battler
or cruiser.”
As soon as he said it the youngster
felt the weight of responsibility lifted
from his shoulders. The captain, com-
ing on to the bridge, had accepted the
whole responsibility for the coming pro-
cedure—such is the prestige, the privilege
and the burden of command.
“Right!” he said. “Tell the tubes to
stand-by. Full ahead both. What’s her
course and speed?”
The reports were coming through
now; the ship, in three minutes, had
resolved into a compact, disciplined fight-
ing unit. The sound of the engine-room
blowers had risen from a muted hum to
a hungry whine.
“Enemy course O two O. Speed,
twelve knots.” “Main armament closed
up,” “All tubes closed up.” And, from
tne engine-room, “Both boilers con-
nected.”
Already the guns were following
director, their long cocked-up snouts
sniffing across the black water. The
fuse-setter of “B” pressed his phones to
his head and repeated “Enemy a Cruiser.
All guns with armor-piercing shell and
full charge load, load, load!”
And as the metallic thud of the clos-
ing breeches died away:
“Gawd, can’t we never pick on any-
thing our own size?”
“Don’t worry, Blue,” said the breech-
worker. “Perhaps it’s only a light
cruiser.”
“Then,” asked Blue, “the ’s only
three times as big as us?”
HE shut up abruptly. From the bridge
came a high, thin voice. Three brief
staccato commands. A moment’s silence
broken only by the whirr of “B’s” pump
and the swish of water down the sides.
Then, in rapid succession, whoosh,
whoosh, whoosh.
The torpedoes hit the water, propellers
already whirling, and started their under-
water run to the target. A minute, two
minutes of pregnant silence. Then from
out of the darkness to port a high, in-
tense flame split the night. The flash of
it was still in our eyes when the roar of
the hit crashed across the water and beat
away to silence.
“Got the ,” said the fuse-setter
softly. And immediately in a very dif-
ferent tone of voice. “All guns, salvoes! ”
A second after the warning clang of
the fire-gong the destroyer broke into
flame. Before the acrid stench of burnt
cordite had blown astern her second
broadside crashed. The ship was shud-
dering with speed ; at each broadside she
jerked, seeming to sob with rage.
She was heeling on a turn when the
first enemy shells hit. A blinding flash
from aft, a sudden harsh shriek of rent
metal. Then again, abreast the funnel,
the roar drowning the dispatch of her
after tubes. Directly ahead of her the
sea was convulsed into pillars of climb-
ing white. She drove through the spouts
and the flung spray fell on her in a
drenching cloud.
On “B” gun, even through the
desperate speed of their loading and the
slam of both barrels, they heard another
colossal explosion. Ahead a sullen red
glow shone on the water. It waxed and
waned, playing on a giant tombstone of
smoke that reached high into the air.
The flaming base of the fire raced and
licked across the water like snakes’
tongues.
“Cease firing!”
The destroyer was suddenly still.
Big Bob blew his nose. “I don’t think
we’ll linger. She’s good enough to leave
till morning. Give me a damage report
as soon as you can, Number One. We’ll
stay closed up. He may have some
friends. Pilot! ”
The two figures pressed into the chart-
table.
IT was a fortnight before the destroyer
1 was patched. Already the island-hop-
ping tempo of the advance north had left
us in a backwater of action. And the re-
curring news of other destroyer fights
and Kamikaze attacks had somewhat
dimmed the fame of our own night
action. But convoy activity was bustling.
Her sailing orders to take a convoy to
its rendezvous with a cruiser squadron
50 miles north of harbor came that
Saturday morning.
“Being ready in all respects for sea,
slip at seventeen hundred [5 p.m.] and
proceed in accordance with previous
orders.”
Big Bob was lunching on board with
the dockyard assistant when the signal
arrived. He was already more than half-
awash.
“Convoys, convoys!” he exploded.
“Always blasted convoys! What am I?
A bloody sheep-dog? Steward! Come
on, Yank —drink up!”
The other remonstrated.
“What? Me? No more? I could take
this tin-can out on my back. Eh, Num-
ber One?”
Number One nodded. “Yes, sir, but
I think”
“Think! You’re not paid to think!
What d’you think I’m here for? Steward!
Where the blazes —oh! About time.
You’ll smack it about when I call next
time. Here y’are, Yank. Happy
patches! ”
AT 1730 the ship was still alongside
and Big Bob was still drinking, his
great neck flushed above the mat of his
chest. Khaki shirt open to the waist, he
was describing flotilla manoeuvres, lurch-
ing from chair to chair.
“Now! The guide was here, steering
O nine O at twenty knots. Me, I’m
here. Captain D. ordered” He
paused. Turning to place a chair he had
caught the first-lieutenant talking urgently
to the navigator, gesturing towards him.
Big Bob’s face was suddenly ugly,
“So! You bloody whippersnapper!
You’d conspire against your captain, eh?
You think I couldn’t take this boat out?”
he roared. “You think that? Me, who
was drivin’ ships before you’d wet your
pants.” His voice dropped. “P’raps
you'd like to take her? P’raps you think
you could handle her better’n me? Ha! ”
He roared again. “Well, you can blasted
well try! Get up there —and if you so
much as dint her paintwork I’ll have
your guts for a necktie!”
The first-lieutenant looked at him.
Big Bob lurched forward, grabbed his
shirt in his great paw and in one jerk
lifted him to his feet.
“You blasted mutinous puppy!” he
mouthed. And then stopped, his jaw
dropped, staring over his white-faced vic-
tim’s shoulder at the wardroom door.
In it, his jaw like a trap, his flag-
lieutenant behind him, stood the Base
Admiral. Big Bob’s weakness was known
further afield than in his own command ;
the Admiral, noting the ship still along-
side half an hour after slipping-time, and
with no procedure signal received, had
come down to see for himself.
BIG 808 was quiet, though still
drunk, when the guard took him
ashore. In a sodden mind the lifelong
habit of unquestioning obedience to
authority was yet alive. The first-lieu-
tenant, by the gangway, muttered to us
“The end of a damned fine career.” The
crew watched from along the waist in
silence. The breechwdrker of the left of
“B” broke in. His voice carried to the
quarter-deck. “He wasn’t a bad old
,” he said. And that seemed to
sum it up pretty well.
The new captain joined at midnight.
“Must be open season again ."
Such Stuff as Dreams.
In their turn the glass-blowers
Fill their cheeks like cherubim;
Winds that drove the merchant through
Half-conjectured oceans, blow
On the mountain, and the storm
Weighs the sky with changing towers.
There the lark is singing. Here
Leaves laugh, buds break.
Swelling to the swelling note
Blown at the tree’s root
By the cricket. Look ; quick !
There’s green enchantment in the air!
And who is this at ease beneath
The tree, whose troubled eyes look far;
Who, compassing both bird and wind,
Is blowing from a dreaming mind
His windowed image of a star
Until our lives hang on his breath?
A.C.T.
David CAMPBELL.


BABCOCK-DETROIT
SPREADER STOKER
df
d
m
El
TOP—Side view of Babcock-Detrolt
BotoStoker with power dumping
grate.
BOTTOM—Sectional view of Bab-
cock-Detroit BotoStoker.
For Medium and
Moderate Sized
Industrial Installations
The Babcock-Detroit Roto-
Stoker is supplied with
either hand or mechanically
operated dumping grate,
and is employed mainly for
medium and moderate
sized industrial installations.
This stoker has been
demonstrated as capable of
handling a very wide range
of fuels, including bitum-
inous, sub-bituminous coals
and lignites, brown coal
and mixtures of coke and
coal.
One of its main advantages is its suitability in plants
where the type or quality of coal delivered varies from
time to time.
As suppliers of all types of firing equipment, whether
for pulverised fuel, oil fuel, other mechanical types of
stokers, or any other known firing method, Babcocks
have the experience necessary to advise on the right
equipment most suitable and economical to your needs.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
ENGINEERS AND CONTRACTORS
HEAD OFFICE i WORKS - ■ REGENTS PARK, K.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agendas in all States
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES.
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury, Deputy
Chairman; Alfred S. White.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
'Phone; B.W. 8361. 120 Pitt Street, Sydney
Branches in All States,
IXL
This World Famous Brand is
Manufactured and Distributed
by the Factories of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in:—*
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
• SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:— ,
SHIPPING— INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
THE SERVICE MAN
Russia and an Armed
Germany.
“Ek Dum”: The U.S.S.R. is
the source of the kind of events
which normally come in clusters
from the Soviet Union.
There was, firstly, the death of
Marshal Tolbukhin, a hero
whose name was heard very fre-
quently during World War 11.
He was one of the highest-
ranking commanders in Soviet
Russia, but now he is dead.
There was not much novel in
that —generals die in great num-
bers in the U.S.S.R. after “long
illnesses,” even at 55, especially
if they have been involved in
sieges like Stalingrad.
The interesting feature about
the Marshal’s death, however,
lay in his mourners when he was
buried a few days ago. The
chief of them was Molotov, who
has been unheard of for over
five months. He turned up
flanked by Malenkov, who evi-
dently has become the third
great figure in Russia, replacing
the lost Zhdanov, who died sud-
denly in 1948.
A week after the funeral
Malenkov delivered the cele-
bratory oration on the 32nd an-
niversary of the October Revolu-
tion, a day always chosen by
Soviet leaders to make important
statements of world-wide in-
terest. It was very much like
the orations which Voroshilov
used to deliver before World
War II boasting of the unbeat-
able military strength of the
Soviet Union and warning capi-
talist countries to beware.
“Imperialism” Warned
Malenkov said that “if im-
perialism unleashes a third world
war the result will mean the
grave for capitalism as a whole.”
For the rest his speech was the
old familiar stuff enshrined in a
thousand books and pamphlets
issued by the Communist parties
the world over, giving assur-
ances of the peaceful intentions
of the Soviet Union but cloaking
incitement to insurrection in
“capitalist” countries in every
sentence.
He declared that the Soviet
Union stood for curtailment of
armaments and a complete ban
on atomic weapons, this arrange-
ment, of course, to be arrived
at on the basis of an agree-
ment that nations which Russia
professes to consider as aggres-
sors are a vicious lot of wolves,
while Russia, spending five times
as much as they on arms and
having 10 times the available
trained manpower, should be
treated as the arbiter of peace:
Atomic energy in the hands of
imperialists is the source of the pro-
duction of death-dealing weapons,
whereas, in the hands of the Soviet,
it must and will remain a mighty
weapon of unprecedented technical
progress and further the speedy
growth of the productive forces of
our country.
It appears, indeed, that all
Russia, the sponsor of revolu-
tion and bloodshed everywhere,
desires at present to do with
atomic energy is to dig rivers
with it, whereas
The programme of the enemies of
peace is becoming clearer. It pre-
supposes the creation of a new-world
American Empire by means of new
wars It is a question of trans-
forming the whole world into a
colony of the American imperialists
and bringing sovereign people to the
status of slaves... .The Western
Powers are criminally undermining
the people’s democracies, making use
of the espionage band of Tito. (
It was altogether very much like
the speeches which preceded the
attack on Finland and numerous
other “peaceful” Soviet Union
operations. It was what some-
body at the British Foreign
Office described as based on
“the familiar tactics both of
former Nazi leaders and of the
Soviet leaders”—he might have
said also of the Australian Com-
munist party—“of conducting
war propaganda by falsely im-
puting aggressiye aims.”
Poland Engulfed
An interesting and immedi-
ate sequel was the sudden ap-
pearance in Poland of Marshal
Rokossovsky, today probably
the senior and most valuable of
the Red Army’s military com-
manders, as Minister for De-
fence, He is, also, probably one
of the most hated Russians (or
Russo-Poles) in Poland, for he
it was who fell back and
allowed the brave defenders of
Warsaw to die, refusing to allow
British and U.S. help to be sent
to them, so that the Red Army
would not have to share its
glories with patriots who were
not Communists. It was, in
effect, a cold-blooded murder of
the brave defenders of War-
saw by deliberate failure of the
supposedly allied Russian Army
to support them when it could
have saved them.
It now seems that Poland is
in the position of the small
Baltic States. It has been be-
trayed by its rulers, men like
Beirut whose loyalty is given to
the Kremlin rather than their
own country. And this is par-
ticularly significant in view of
what is happening in adjacent
countries.
The Case of Tito's “Snout”
It has been reported from
Switzerland that Swiss diplo-
mats are being questioned by
the Russians as to probable
Western European and United
States reactions if Russia were
to invade Yugoslavia. Certainly
the language being exchanged
between that country and Mos-
cow suggests that war might
come at any moment. From
having been “the hero who
showed the British and Ameri-
cans how to fight and who held
more crack divisions of Ger-
man troops at bay than Alex-
ander,” the chess-player of Bel-
grade has become to Moscow
Radio “the coward and
drunkard, Tito, the catspaw of
Churchill.”
A little eulogy of Stalin’s late
agent in the Balkans, broadcast
as an extract from one of Mos-
cow’s organs of culture last
week, referred genially to the
“dirty and diseased snout of the
Danubian deserter to the im-
perialists, bought spy and assas-
sin, discredited Fascist traitor
to his homeland and to Social-
ism.” But this need not mean
anything in Russian. Worse
language referring to Hitler and
Goebbels was being dissemi-
nated from Moscow for use of
the world Communist parties at
the moment when Ribbehtrop
and Stalin were drinking to-
gether in 1939. And one can
scarcely forget that a few years
earlier it was discovered that,
while the Communist party of
Australia was loudly and fre-
quently describing a dis-
“How's he holding ?”
tinguished citizen now living at
Government expense as “a
putrid rat,” it was working hand
in glove with him behind the
scenes.
There is something distinctly
unreal about the relationships
between Moscow and Belgrade,
The shouting is too loud and
abusive oh both sides to be
utterly convincing, and the re-
ports of Russian troops massing
on the borders of Yugoslavia
are too openly publicised and
sometimes too absurd to com-
mand full respect,
,
East Germany s rrepared-
ness”
Much more interesting and
disturbing are the developments
in Eastern Germany, They have
remarkajble resemblances to
what happened between Russia
and Germany in reverse in the
decade or so following Ver-
sailles.
Then the Russians enabled the


g I s
me
f
By Appointment
Cio DUtilUn
. 'to H.M. King Georg* VI
fonqueray. Cordon & Co Ltl
Gordons
Stands Sufft&HUL
' '
sm
,
I
Scottish
as the kilt
Prime leaf, matured In the wood, blended with true Scottish skill
and vacuum-packed for freshness —that’s Pour Square. You’ll
appreciate its superb natural flavour. Imported direct from
Scotland in 2 oz. vacuum tins.
MATURED VIRGINIA
(Red Squares)
A balanced blend of the finest
selected Virginia leaf, matured
In the wood, cut from the cake
and packed in broken flake form
ready for the pipe.
READY RUBBED FINE CUT
(Bed Squares)
A balanced blend of the finest
selected Virginia leaf, famous
for its flavour, coolness and
slow burning. The long shreds
are ideal for making firm, round,
evenly burning cigarettes.
CURLIES (Purple Squares)
Balanced blend. Empire-grown
Virginia-type, rolled and cut
ready for the pipe.
CURLIES FINE CUT
(Purple Squares)
Blended from Empire-grown
Virginia leaf, the famous
Curlies discs are cut wafer thin
for the cigarette smokers, and
when rubbed out make a cool,
evenly burning cigarette.
FOUR SQUARE
TOBACCOS Made by Dobie of Paisley, Scotland
F 8.128.8
; SWISS FINISHING SCHOOL |
5 5
Le Colombier
A private and select Finishing School
for the Study of Languages ( French
and German ), Continental Culture,
deportment and domestic science.
For prospectus apply to: —
I MAJOR and MADAM JACQUES H. E. CHABLE I
Olinda Falls Rd., MT. DANDENONG, Victoria.
?iiiiiiitiiniiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiitiiiiiiiniimiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiimniiiiiiiiiiiiiin
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN MAXWELL RUSSELL LIVING-
STONE. —TAKE NOTICE that OLGA
BERYL LIVINGSTONE has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 2482 of 1949 on the
grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards without just cause or excuse If
you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 25th Janu-
ary 1950 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from W. D.
SCHRADER & DUDLEY, 113 Pitt Street,
Sydney.— (l.s.) J. DOUGHAN, Registrar
in Divorce.
Missing Friend.
TO GEORGE ARTHUR FURNISS for-
merly of South Yarra St. Hilda and 169
Geelong Road Footscray in the State of
Victoria but now of parts unknown.—
TAKE NOTICE that your wife DOREEN
ELSIE FURNISS of 169 Geelong Road
Footscray in the State of Victoria has in-
stituted proceedings against you for
divorce on the ground of three years’ de-
sertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or be-
fore the 21st day of December 1949 and
file an answer in the said office on or be-
fore the sth day of January 1950 the case
may proceed your absence notwithstand-
ing.—W. H. JONES & KENNEDY, Soli-
citors. 214 Nicholson Street, Footscray.
World-wide
BANKING
SERVICE
d
Importers and exporters desiring
financial facilities for overseas trade
and travel will find them at any of
this Bank’s more than 300 branches.
These services include collection
of overseas payments, negotiation of
drawings under credits in favour of
exporters, establishment of Letters
of Credit for importers, buying and
selling of Foreign Exchange.
Enquiries are invited .
THE
COMMERCIAL
BANKING
COMPANY
OF SYDNEY
LIMITED
ESTABLISHED 1834
with which is amalgamated
THE BANK OF VICTORIA LTD.
Germans to defeat disarma-
ment by . allowing them to train
their officers in the U.S.S.R.
while at the same time obtain-
ing training for their own
officers and large numbers of
rank-and-file.
Now the Russians are recipro-
cating in occupied territory. An
armed and militarily-trained
force is being built un in occu-
pied East Germany. As Hitler’s
armies of conquest were decep-
tively called the Wehrmacht —
“defence force”—so this one
masquerades under the inno-
cent-sounding description of
Bereitschaften “preparedness”
brigades. They wear uniforms
very much like the gaudier
species of the Wehrmacht. and
they are reported to be under
the command of Hans Zaisser,
known to many an Australian
Communist as “General
Gomez,” Chief of Staff of the
International Brigades in the
Spanish War.
He was bom in the Ruhr
and was a refugee from Ger-
many to Moscow in the years of
the ’twenties —a man flavored
with the qualities of Himmler.
The new body looks very
much like the basis of a train-
ing corps to form the officer
nucleus of a new Wehrmacht to
force the hands of Western
Germany.
The Russians are organising
it in squads of about company
strength and arming it with
everything up to mobile field-
guns
Conference in Peking.
“Ek Dum”: The departure of
Elliott V. Elliott, secretary of
the Seamen’s Union, and a mem-
ber of the Central Committee of
the Communist party, to confer
at Peking with the W.F.T.U. is
nothing new in Australian Com-
munist history.
Ever since 1929, when three
members of the Australian
Labor party—F. Walsh, of
South Australia, P. G. Hannett,
of N. S. Wales, and F. Rods, of
N. S. Wales —went to Vladivos-
tok, these Eastern Communist
conferences have been routine.
They have all been aimed at the
same objective—the driving of
the British and other white races
out of Asia and the Pacific in
the interests of the U.S.S.R. and
its schemes for world revolu-
tion.
The 1929 conference brought
home plans for the destruction
of arbitration in Australia. Its
leaders included some of the
best-known Communists of Asia,
its general secretary was Earl
Browder, then general secretary
of the United States Communist
party, and its director and in-
structor Losovsky, who was
Stalin’s chief of publicity during
the war.
When the Ryde branch of the
A.L.P. many years later expelled
Hannett for having Communist
sympathies the N. S. Wales
Executive reinstated him, re-
marking that he had been a
member of the Labor movement
for 30 years. Roels, after his
return from Vladivostok, was
elevated to the N. S. Wales
Legislative Council. He had
attended this wholly Communist
conference while a member of
the N. S. Wales A.L.P. Execu-
tive himself.
The fashion now has become
to send leading Communist-
party officials to these affairs,
Thornton went to the last
W.F.T.U. conference in Paris,
Sharkey went to the last Asian
Communist conference, and no
doubt would have gone to
Peking if he had been available,
which, of course, he was not.
The conference is being held
in the new capital of a Com-
munist regime which has sworn
to throw all Europeans out of
China. It is to decide policies
which include the policy of the
Australian Communist party
and the unions which declare
allegiance to the Communists on
matters which vitally affect Aus-
tralian defence and Australian
foreign relationships.
One of the questions to be
discussed is whether Dutch ship-
ping from Indonesia may trade
again with Australia.
If the Government does not
take notice of that move it will
reveal an appalling state of
affairs. That the policy of Aus-
tralia towards the East Indies
should be decided for it by the
Communist trade-unions, hither-
to with the connivance or ac-
quiescence of Dr. Evatt, is bad
enough. But the decisions at
Peking will not merely deal with
specific points of current policy.
It is proposed to set up in
Peking an agency which will
generally supervise Communist
policy throughout the Pacific,
including Australia, much on the
lines of the old Pan-Pacific
Trade-union Secretariat, an off-
shoot of the Comintern. This
body was adopted in Australia
at the instance of Messrs. Hollo-
way and Garden, who had it ap-
proved by the A.C.T.U. Garden
was its executive officer in Aus-
tralia for many years.
In the interests of defence,
internal and external, it is time
that a stop was put to this kind
of liaison between Australian
unions and Communist organisa-
tions in the power of Russia.
War —of a new kind —with
Russia is as much in being as if
the first shots had been fired.
And those who conspire with
the Russians to damage Aus-
tralia and its power to defend
itself should be given a warn-
ing, and if they do not take it
they should be dealt with ac-
cording to the prudent dictates
of security.
The Chinese military position
does not change much. The
forces of the Communists are
moving towards Chungking as
fast as they can walk, which is
not very fast. Many towns
were taken during the past week,
and it seemed possible that any
day Chungking would “fall”
—that is, the enemy would
walk into it and be almost killed
by the rush of eager deserters
anxious to get in out of the
wet. Rumors vague and not
very terrifying to the Com-
munists are that a mysterious
drive is being organised by the
Nationalist forces under the per-
sonal command of Chiang Kai-
shek. They seem to be about
as valid as the long-term rumor
which used to float about the
country that Dan Kelly was due
to emerge from hiding and re-
vive the old Euroan tradition.
But in China one never knows,
especially in the light of the fact
that the Chinese Communist
Army is the kind of force that
two men and a boy could em-
barrass if not defeat. The only
really important Nationalist
movements during the week were
of commercial aircraft deserting
to the stronger side.
* * * *
In Malaya Communists and
their backers seem to have
wakened up with a view to stir-
ring the world by their atrocities.
The ambush of one truck in
Segamat area last week resulted
in the murder of a European,
two special constables, two !
Chinese women, with six
wounded, including five women.
Later an attack on a miner’s
home led to the murder of his
wife —the first white woman
whom the terrorists have suc-
ceeded in killing. Four High-
landers were killed over the
weekend during a battle with
insurgents. Canberra remains
calm. After it became inevitable
that, following the conference in
Singapore, there would be some
concerted action in the Pacific,
Dr. Evatt decided to hold a con-
ference of his own.


Old friends
are best friends!
jr .
t £
ST
’CarT,."’
** *o
05
s&tfbctcQ7%
c Z (af *k
The name is.
(irOdlums
The whiskij is.
MEMQ* is UhEASE
Pass Examinations.
Speak Without Notes.
Grip Lodge Ritual, etc.
Send stamp for booklet.
Rev. W. Rowlands,
13 Younger Grove,
Caulfield. S.E.B, Victoria,
tl/s
m
sSl^l
Pa/tfmait'
until summer is nearly over 9
and swelter day and night
INSDMTE
your home NOW with
8.1.5 L AG WOOL
No house, home, office or building is modern and entirely
healthy unless it is insulated preferably with BM
SLAG WOOL,
mb /
insulation
•Phone*i Sydney M 3038. Melbourne MU 3506.
Brisbane B 3604, Adelaide C 7257, Perth L 2107
c tlOOl
sl>
BIC 18
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RUSSIA’S GERMAN MOVES.
The policy of putting Europe
first in the “cold war,” as was
done in the actual war, has
so far paid some dividends,
however it may work out in
over-all strategy.
At least it has held the line
in Greece, Germany and else-
where, while Europe got a needed
start towards recovery, and the
two decisive battles fought—the
struggle against the Soviet-aided
Greek guerrillas and the air-lift
in Germany—have been positive
Western victories.
Russian clumsiness (nothing
unusual) can be said to have
helped, especially in Germany
(as it may be helping in Yugo-
slavia). In Germany, London
“Time and Tide” comments,
Russia has bungled her hand
badly. “The granting of the
eastern provinces to Poland,
the wholesale requisitioning of
industrial plant for war pur-
poses, the ruthless conscrip-
tion of labor, her Berlin
policy, they have all boom-
eranged back upon her so far as
her hopes of winning German
sympathy and support are con-
cerned. The setting-up of the
West German State has taken the
wind out of her sails and reduced
her to repeated impotent invoca-
tions of Potsdam and finally to
following suit rather lamely by
setting up her own independent
State of Germany.
“This State does not really
amount to very much. Eastern
Germany, deprived of the
Silesian industrial area and with-
out free access to the Ruhr, can-
not be economically sound. It
is simply not viable and its
frontiers are grotesque. More-
over, neither the Poles nor the
Czechs, though their present
Governments would enthusiasti-
cally agree that black is white
if the Kremlin said so, showed
any prior signs of welcoming
this move; nor, being realists
who have felt the weight of the
Nazi jackboot, can they attach
any importance to the East Ger-
man Communist renunciation of
the lands beyond the Oder-Neisse
line. A revived Germany in
any shape is seen as an intoler-
able threat to their independence.
Russia can, no doubt, ‘get away
with it’ in setting up her puppet
because it is inconceivable that
the present rulers in Warsaw and
Prague would dare, or would be
in a position, publicly to oppose
it. But the long-term conse-
quences in both countries may
be serious.”
Though calling the Soviet
action “a complete anticlimax,”
London “Economist” looks for
the nigger in the woodpile, and
quickly sights him:
“Why have the Russians
gone forward with a plan to set
up this ridiculous rump Govern-
ment? The most likely explana-
tion is one which the Western
Powers would do well to
scrutinise carefully. In many
ways, the People’s Government
in Berlin is so ludicrous that
there may be a temptation to
underestimate its significance.
Yet there is one possibility open
to Russian policy which could,
in spite of the blunders made by
Russia in its own zone, still em-
barrass the Western Powers,
“The communique announcing
the new Government stated that
a peace treaty will be concluded
with it, and that thereafter occu-
pation forces will be withdrawn.
Such procedure is, of course, safe
enough in a country already in
the straitjacket of the secret
police, and in any case, the
Russian forces would not need
to withdraw very far. But the
next stage will be the launching
by the Soviet Government of a
new ‘peace campaign,’ with a
demand for the withdrawal of
the Allied forces as well. Russia
may hope that in time the Ger-
mans themselves will join in the
cry and. demand that German
soil be freed of troops,
“This is the possibility which
Western statesmanship must
examine. There is nothing the
Russians would like more than
to suggest to the world that the
removal of Russian troops across
the Vistula is the exact equiva-
lent of the retreat of American
troops across the Atlantic.”
A London “Observer” writer
holds there could be “no more
dangerous error” than to accept
that the whole matter has been
settled ; that from now on the
two Germanys will go their
separate ways: “Nobody has at
any time agreed to, or acquiesced
in, a partition of Germany:
neither the Western Allies nor
the Russians, nor the Germans.
The Bonn Government does not
regard itself as a Government
of Western Germany, and the
Russian-sponsored Government
in East Berlin does not regard
itself as a Government of Eastern
Germany. Both claim authority
over all Germany.
“In this claim the two Govern-
ments are tacitly or overtly
backed by the Western Allies and
by Russia respectively. More-
over, the mass of the German
people, rapidly re-emerging from
the stupor of defeat, does not
even for a moment consider the
possibility of resigning itself to
divided nationhood. What we
witness is not a settlement, but
a deployment for battle.”
Seeing the Russian move as “a
bid for an alliance with German
nationalism, which they hope to
swing against the remaining
Western occupier s,” the
“Observer” writer comments
that this idea “is not as mad as it
may seem at first sight,” and
“deserves to be taken seriously”;
“There is still a strong under-
current of old-fashioned German
nationalism which distrusts the
West as much as the East. There
is the enormous and explosive
problem of 9,000,000 unsettled
refugees and expellees in
Western Germany, who remain
easy victims to a demagogic
appeal from any quarter. There
is Germany’s vital need for
export markets, which will drive
her into the arms of Russia
unless we provide another out-
let for it. There is the constant
source of friction provided by
the occupation statute, and the
semi-tutelage in which it keeps
the Bonn Government, There is,
finally, the ghastly blunder of
dismantling, which rams it home
to the Germans day after day
that we continue to regard them
as our enemies.”
The West, this writer con-
cludes, cannot permanently
count on anti-Communism and
memories of Russia’s record in
Germany; there needs to be a
positive Western appeal;
“This appeal cannot and need
not be made to crude German
nationalism. A real chance to
merge herself as an equal
member in a united Europe, or
an organised Atlantic Union,
would today be grasped by the
Germans with both hands. What
is needed to win the impending
decisive battle of Germany is
the large-mindedness and poli-
tical imagination which would
see Germany, no longer as an
inveterate enemy or a convict on
probation, but as a potential
friend and partner of tomorrow.”
“Silly” U.N.O. Decision.
Having little of Dr. Evatt’s
U.N.O. wishfulness, the “Man-
chester Guardian” tears apart the
General Assembly Trusteeship
committee’s resolution calling on
the countries administering trust
territories to submit within one
year concrete and detailed plans
for the independence or self-
government of their peoples:
“He would be a bold man who
would say within 20 years or so
when the peoples of, say, Tan-
ganyika or New Guinea will be
able to rule themselves, or by
what steps precisely they will
reach this point. But that does
not trouble the Trusteeship com-
mittee, which has neither to make
the decisions nor take any re-
sponsibility for carrying them
out.
“The whole business is obvi-
ously a political manoeuvre, de-
signed for the purpose of throw-
ing mud at the colonial Powers
by men who have no knowledge
of the problems on which they
set themselves up to adjudi-
cate... .It is clearly outside the
United Nations’ powers to
demand anything of the kind.
Article 73 of the Charter is
quite definite on this. It requires
the Powers administering trust
territories to send regularly to
the Secretary-General ‘statistical
and other information of a
technical nature relating to
economic, social and educational
conditions in the territories for
which they are responsible.’
“This is being done, so far as
this country [Britain; also Aus-
tralia] is concerned. But the
sort of constitutional blueprint
which the Trusteeship committee
are now calling for is a long way
outside the limits of Article 73.”
With some regret that the
trusteeship organs of U.N.O.
have failed to show themselves
“responsible and understanding
bodies” like the old League of
Nations Mandates Commission,
the comment concludes that
“after the way in which colonial
problems have actually been
handled at Lake Success, und
after the Trusteeship committee’s
silly resolution in particular,”
any countries with colonies “will
surely be determined to bring
nothing more within United
Nations range,”
Greek Coms Lose.
No doubt the Greek Corns will
continue acting in the interna-
tional conspiracy according to
the opportunity allowed them,
though this should be less under
American realism than it would
have been under British or other
Socialist sentimentalism.
For the time being, the
essential thing (as London Labor
“Daily Herald” comments) “is
that the rebels have stopped
fighting because they can fight
no more. Not only have they
been decisively beaten in the field
by the Greek Army, they have
been abandoned by their allies
over the northern frontiers.
“Like the Spanish Com-
munists, they have been encour-
aged and incited from Moscow.
Like the Spanish Communists,
they are being cynically deserted
in their hour of failure.
“It was the same with the
German Communists in 1933,
when Stalin was seeking Hitler’s
friendship. Foreign Communist
parties are the expendable troops
of Soviet foreign policy.”
France’s Saar.
However it may work out in
the long run, with a once-more
strong and unified Germany,
France for the present not only
controls but holds the Saar
region, on terms not very diff~~-
ent from annexation.
Though the region was, in the
first place, handed over by the
Americans as merely part of
the French occupation zone of
Germany, the French acted
from the start practically in the
spirit of owners, and the U.S.
and Britain have meanwhile
agreed that the economy of
the Saar should be incor-
porated into the French
economy. Now the French,
says London “Spectator” writer
John Midgley, contend that this
means that the territory should
be politically detached from
Germany, and that therefore
they are within their rights in
giving it a separate political
system.
The latest official French pro-
nouncement on the region is
that the French Government
“has not and never has had the
intention of asking for or pre-
paring the political incorpora-
tion of the Saar into France” ;
that the aim was to develop
political independence for it.
Midgley points out, however,
that the independence is
severely qualified, “with strong
special rights guaranteed to
France.”
Detailing the imposed limita-
tions—among them, the fact
that the French High Com-
missioner in the Saar has ab-
solute powers of veto over laws
and orders of the Saar Govern-
ment ; his approval is required
for nominations to high office
and grants of Saar citizenship ;
and he has “full emergency
powers to act and legislate in
the event of any threat to the
basic relationship between the
Saar and France” —the writer
naturally comments: “If this
is independence, it is impossible
not to wonder what purpose
would be served by annexa-
tion.”
The Saar people, for their
part, have “accepted the present
regime without much protest,”
and “Visitors to the Saar and
the leaders of the Saar parties


SPARKLING
ORANGE J
JUICE iMk
m
m
m
x- -
4-
m
m
m
Schweppervescence
lasts the whole drink through
SCHWEPPES
fd
■ INCPSrt MANUrACTUMW
TO K« V, KING GEORGE VI.
have said that if a referendum
were held at present.... the
popular verdict would be for
‘autonomy’ with attachment to
France” —that is, in favor of the
actual present French policy, a
main tenet of which, it should
be added, is that the one thing
completely ruled out from the
Saar’s future is reunion with
Germany.
On how long that outlook of
the Saar people would last
under the nationalist appeal of
the distinctly nationalist
Germany now emerging the
writer has his doubts. “What,”
he questions, “has happened to
the people who voted for in-
corporation with Germany less
than 15 years ago?” In that pre-
war plebiscite 90 per cent, voted
for .such incorporation ; most of
the 10 per cent, were for con-
tinued League-of-Nations con-
trol (voting not on anti-German,
but purely on aftti-Nazi
grounds) and a mere 2124
voters out of an electorate of
half-a-million favored incor-
poration into France.
“Nobody who witnessed that
plebiscite,” the “Spectator”
writer concludes, “will find it
easy to believe that the Saar-
landers can have become im-
pervious to an emotional
appeal from a resurgent
Germany... .The new regime is
working today. But who will
guarantee that it will resist the
first strain? The Saar question
is one of a series of questions
which arise from the economic
interdependence of the politi-
cally separated parts of the
Rhine basin. It will not be
effectively settled by a single
political arrangement. Not un-
til an international regime is de-
vised to permit an integrated
economic life for the Rhine
basin as a whole can this part
of Europe be made safe.”
“Soaking the Rich.”
Till the advent of Britain’s
Socialist Government, Lord
Macmillan points out in a Lon-
don “Sunday Times” article, the
orthodox tax doctrine was that
taxation should be kept as low
as possible consistently with the
due fulfilment of the State’s ob-
ligation to defend the realm,
maintain law and order and pro-
vide certain essential public ser-
vices : these needs being met,
the more money that was left
to “fructify” in the hands of its
possessors the better.
“But,” Lord Macmillan com-
ments, “the wheel has turned
and taxation is regarded by our
present rulers as a prime instru-
ment in achieving a social revo-
lution, As a prominent Labor
member expressed it in the
House of Commons: ‘One of
the necessary purposes of taxa-
tion is to redistribute income in
favor of the lower - income
groups.’ ”
Quoting official figures to
show how the Socialist “soak-
ing” doctrine has levelled-down
incomes in Britain, the writer
adds:—
“It is thus manifest that in
future it will be practically im-
possible for anyone to accumu-
late out of his savings even a
modest fortune. Such large for-
tunes as still survive from other
days must soon disappear, partly
by being used to meet current
expenses and taxes, but more
effectually through the confis-
catory death duties, which rise
to a maximum of 75 per cent.
“Now, what are the implica-
tions of such a policy of taxa-
tion? In the first place, and
most obviously, it destroys all
incentive to earn anything more
than a very modest income. T
am not at all sure that the
authorities realise how powerful
in certain circumstances the
—London "Daily Mail.”
FEELING THE HEAT.
present income - tax arrange-
ments operate to restrict effort.’
So said that veteran economist
Sir Alexander Gray in his very
human address to the British
Association on the economics of
the ‘Santa Claus’ State. Who
can doubt the soundness of his
view?
“Human nature being what it
is, who is going to strive by hard
work to double his income only
to incur heavier taxation? With
„,, . , ~ „
odd mconsis ency the Govern-
merit accompanies its penal ex-
actions on the one hand and its
free benefits on the other with
adjurations to all to practise the
most stringent personal thrift,
But why practise thrift, so far
as it may still be possible, when
the State will look after all our
needs?....
“What does not seem to be
realised is that the process now
at work is self-destructive. If,
through the removal of all in-
centive, large incomes and large
fortunes rease tn he made then
toi tunes cease to be made then
the yield of income-tax and sur-
tax and of death duties must
correspondingly diminish, Hie
logical end is that there will be
nothing left to redistribute for
all will be reduced to a uniform
low financial level. Already the
Chancellor of the Exchequer
hs issued a warning that the
policy of ‘soaking the rich,’ as
it is elegantly phrased, has
reached the limit of saturation.”
Indeed, even the Socialist
Government itself would seem
to be “alarmed by the damage
done” by such application of its
doctrine of excessive taxation ;
at least, it has set up a Treasury
Committee to consider how
Britain’s “historic houses and
their contents may be saved
from the ruin which is overtak-
ing them and their owners.”
The Socialist Error.
Writer Charles Morgan, sug-
gesting in London “Sunday
Times” that Britain’s Socialists
can still “save face”:
“They are not asked to say
that Socialism, at all times and
in all places, is fundamentally
wrong in principle ; but they are
required by the facts confront-
ing them to acknowledge that, at
this time and in this place, a
great part of the socialistic theory
is inapplicable.”
He makes the point that “The
[British] Labor party had its
roots in a time when the world
was relatively stable and there
was a distributable surplus of
wealth. All parties, Conserva-
tive, Liberal and Labor, moved
in the direction of the Welfare
State. No one wishes to abandon
that movement now, but it is re-
versible by bankruptcy.
“The question is one of timing
and of available resources. The
Socialists, coming into power
after the surplus had been either
distributed in peace or dissipated
in war, clung to a policy which
might have been applicable 40
years earlier. They tried to dis-
tribute a surplus which no longer
existed. At the same time, by
unintelligently vindictive taxa-
tion, they prevented the recrea-
tion of the nation’s vanished
wealth. In blind pursuit of an
out-of-date theory, they have
come to such a point of frustra-
tion that, while pluming them-
selves on the so-called benefits
they have conferred on wage-
earners, they have been com-
pelled to demand, for their own
Governmental purposes, eight
shillings out of each pound of
the nation’s income, and now,
suddenly, to reduce the value of
every man’s shilling to eight-
pence when it buys the goods of
those who pay their own way,
Utopia, always remote, has be-
come ruinous in the vain
pursuit.”
India’s Notable Start.
A staff correspondent of N. Y.
“Herald Tribune,” reporting
from New Delhi, assesses the
start that India has been able to
make against considerable odds
as something of a miracle.
“Start,” he says, “with a
newly independent State, the
mass of whose people live at
an increasingly low level of life.
Add that these people are
divided into races, castes and
religions violently hostile to each
other. Add a whole series of
semi-independent princely States,
prepared violently to resist
absorption into the new nation.
“Plunge this new State into a
civil war, one of the bloodiest
in history. Pile into it some
5,000,000 wholly destitute refu-
gees. Split the new State in
two, wholly disrupting its eco-
nomic life. Confront it with
desperate economic problems;
above all the problem of finding
the food to keep its population,
growing at a cancerous rate,
alive.
“Finally, add a Communist
movement determined to take
advantage as ruthlessly as pos-
sible of all these terrible circum-
stances. Surely, it would be
reasonable to expect the Indian
State to disintegrate, plunging
into the chaos which has over-
taken most of Asia.
“Yet India has not disinte-
grated. India has a Government
whose authority, although con-
stantly challenged, remains
supreme. India has at least three
political leaders who are men
of great stature —and one some-
times wonders if the United
States can boast as many. India
has a civil service which keeps
the infinitely complicated
machinery of government tick-
ing. India has a currency,
banking and taxation system
which works. India has an
army which is loyal, non-
political, and easily the most
powerful in Asia, not excepting
the Communist hordes of Mao
Tse-tung. In a word, India is
functioning. This is the
miracle.”
Dragnet Digest.
Monty on England. —Field-Marshal
Lord Montgomery, speaking (he said)
“as an Irishman”: “To me England
means ‘Fear God, Honor the King.’
It means family life; the church-bells
ringing on Sunday; the home, cricket
and football on the village green and
on our playing-fields. It means good-
fellowship and good-comradeship, a
square deal for everybody, hard work
with adequate reward and consequent
prosperity for all, laws based on a
moral code, freedom from oppression
and restrictions, and the right of the
individual within the law to live his
own life and go his own way. The
duty of each is to believe in that
English way of life, and to resist any
set of men or circumstances that
threaten it.”
* * * *
Backward Bear. —G iv e n peace
(which is, after all, wholly up to their
own rulers), the Russian people, in
London “Times’s” view, may begin
to reap more material rewards for
their years of unremitting toil: their
living standards, deliberately kept low
in order that all resources and labor
could be devoted first to industrial
expansion, will no doubt slowly rise.
But, “Even so the benefits, according
to the present system of ranks and
privileges, will be spread unevenly.
There is no sign that the greater
promise of a freer life will be ful-
filled; that end is continually condi-
tioned, and postponed, by the chosen
means which are alien to freedom.”
* * * *
Our Gifts to Britain. —Any koala
lately noticed modestly blushing
might have been reading London
“News Chronicle” on the last Aus-
tralian gift of £8,000,000 to help J.
Bull; “There is apparently no limit
to the generosity and kindliness of
the [British] Commonwealth peoples.
Quite apart from the continuous flow
of food parcels which arrive in this
country from across the seas Aus-
tralia alone has contributed £36
million to the British Exchequer in
the last three years.”
* * * *
Baseball Betting. —Someone having
declared, regarding Britain’s current
betting epidemic, that “A nation of
gamblers does not deserve one
dollar from the U.5.A.,” a “News
Chronicle” letter-writer quotes N. Y.
“Post” for the statement that
£1,125,000,000 (devaluated pounds,
apparently) will be spent on illegal
betting on baseball games in the U.S.
this year: “This amount is rather
more than the betting turnover on
racehorses in the U.S.A., and em-
braces all classes, from professional
gamblers to schoolchildren.”
* * * *
U.S.-British Asia Policy. —A report
by N. Y. “Herald Tribune’s” usually
well-informed Washington staff has
stated that when Bevin and Acheson
last conferred they readily reached
agreement on Japan, South-east Asia,
India and even Hong Kong, but that
they disagreed over China, the U.S.
State Department desiring power to
cut off China’s trade with the West,
if thought necessary, and Bevin stick-
ing out for control of only the ship-
ment of war materials and munitions,
with freedom to trade otherwise:
“This disagreement, which deeply
affects Anglo-American policy in
Asia, clearly springs from the des-
perate economic plight of the British.
It will only end when the threat of
British economic collapse is ended.”
* * * *
Sir Stafford’s Slips. —As observed by
London “Financial Times”: “When
Sir Stafford Cripps opens his mouth,
no one can tell what he will say next,
frequently not even himself.” But
maybe he hasn’t that altogether on
his own among politicians.
* * * *
Herr Vishinsky. —London “Time
and Tide” comment on the Kremlin
threat that, if a satisfactory solution
were not reached with Yugoslavia,
the Soviet Government would em-
ploy “more effective methods”: “It
was just about this time eleven years
ago that a totalitarian bully, possibly
more experienced in the use of the
big stick than even Mr. Vishinsky,
was shouting in almost identical
terms about ‘more effective methods.’
It is not we but the Russians them-
selves who seem continually to wish
to remind the world of the affinities
of their regime with that of the
defunct Herr Hitler.”
* * H= *
Singapore Conference. —Comment-
ing prior to British and Dominion
diplomats conferring in Singapore on
British Far Eastern policy “in the
light of the Communist advance in
Asia,” the “Scotsman” (Edinburgh)
revealed that the position in Malaya
remains a long way from being
under control: “Though the increased
activities of our forces have produced
more contact with the bandits, no real
improvement in the situation is re-
ported. The Singapore conference
will have to consider the Communist
menace in»all its bearings. America
has no heart for a counter-movement
in Asia. The minimum British policy
must be one of defending British
rights, including the right to Hong
Kong, but for the rest a certain
recognition of accomplished but
unwelcome facts seems to be un-
avoidable.”
•P
Chinese Corns’ Supporters. —ln the
view of London “Times,” the Chinese
Corns “can hardly account for any
enthusiastic support” (presumably in
the cities) except that of students,
teachers and some of the intelligentsia
—a small but important class in
China. “The middle classes are
bound to be suspicious even though
they are at present being courted, and
the industrial workers are still a small
and badly-organised body in China.
This, indeed, is perhaps the greatest
difference between the Chinese and
Russian revolutions, and it is signifi-
cant that so far as is known there
have been no Communist risings in
the big cities to greet the advancing
armies. At present, and for a long
time to come, the Communists must
base their power largely on the
peasants and farmers, who form some
80 per cent, of the 450 m. Chinese
people. This fact is bound to
influence the speed and method of
the Chinese revolution, and may even
require some rewriting of Marxist
doctrine as interpreted by Lenin and
Stalin.”


NOW! PROOF that brushing teeth right
after eating is the safe, effective way to
HELP STOP
TOOTH DECAY
with New! Improved!
Colgate Dental Cream
No Other Dentifrice Offers
Proof of These Results
Exhaustive research by
Eminent American Dental
Authorities proves how using
Colgate Dental Cream helps
stop dental decay before it
starts! Continuous research
hundreds of case histories
makes this the most im-
portant news in dental his-
tory! Eminent American
dental authorities super-
vised 2 groups of college
men and women for over a
year. One group always
brushed their teeth with
Colgate Dental Cream right
after eating. The other
group followed their usual
dental care.
The average of the group
using Colgate’s as directed
was a startling reduction in
number of cavities —far less
tooth decay! The other
group developed new
cavities at a much
higher rate.
Giant 2/-
Larga 1/3
•VO2
COLGATE CLEANS YOUR
BREATH AS IT CLEANS YOUR TEETH
9
9 ’
New! Improved!
COLGATE DENTAL CREAM
Now Better Than Ever!
New delicious double minty
flavour! New sparkling snow-
white colour! New scientific
polishing action! New soap-
less penetrating foam For
effective daily dental care.
No claim is made that using
Colgate’s can stop all tooth
decay, or help cavities already
started. But brushing teeth
right after eating is the
proved way to help stop tooth
decay with Colgate Dental
Cream.
Always Use Colgate’s* to
Clean Your Breath While
You Clean Your Teeth—and
HELP STOP TOOTH DECAY!
*Right after eating.
DIQ/169A
FLY THE PACIFIC
Goumu&xom (jkciftc jtyie
Speed
Without
Fatigue!
CANADA
; ALASKA
CANADIAN PACIFIC
Connecting Routes
B. S. A.
PHI
' mm
CHINA
W
SmßSSam
AUSTRALIA
i NEW ZEAIANO
On Canadian Pacific’s
‘All Red Route” to England
Fly to Vancouver, Canada from Sydney via Fiji and Honolulu
—on Canadian Pacific 4-engine, pressurised “Empress air-
liners! Wonderful service meals! You sleep on land at night
with hotel room and meals at no extra cost at Fiji and Honolulu!
Choose the “All Red Route” from Australia to the United Kingdom.
Travel Canadian Pacific all the way air train steamship.
Travel air all the way - Canadian Pacific Air Lines to Vancouver
connecting air lines to the United Kingdom.
Also fly Canadian Pacific Air Lines between Vancouver-Tokyo-
Hong Kong the shortest and fastest route from North America
to the Far East comfortable pressurised aircraft traditional
Canadian Pacific service.
assess**
For further details apply Canadian Po&fi?
Railway Company, or Union Steam Snip
Co. (General Agents), W George SU,
Sydney, and o 9 William St., ,
bourne, or any authorised
Tourist Agency.
QaAUldlMi 6WpC
mAmmalines
“THE WINGS OF THE WORLD’S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM”
Canadian Pacific Air Lines Limited Incorporated in Canacfa ______
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
For wise men
“Some Australian liquor laws are a
bigger joke than any one I have
cracked at the London Palladium.”
—Comedian Tommy Trinder.
Ah, well. Hours not to rea-
son why.
4* 4* 4*
“I defy any woman to look attrac-
tive without stockings.”
—Sydney “D.T.”
They’re a sheer necessity,
4* 4*
None but the most biased
can doubt CalwelTs genuine re-
gard for D.Ps. -after his un-
tiring efforts to rehabilitate
Falsie Maxtein.
“Young m.c. from Pictoria require
flat, rooms or board urgently.”
—Suburban paper.
Artistic surroundings pre-
ferred. *
•h
With petrol at 3s. a gallon,
motorists’ spirits have soared.
•h *l*
Censored.
“The British Board of Film
Censors, for the first time in 30
years, passed a scene showing a man
and woman in bed together. The
board stated: ‘Of course, this does
not mean that we shall hand out a
blanket permission for all such scenes
in future.’ ”
As he awoke in the cold, grey,
stormy dawn and gazed be-
wildered at the beautiful girl
sleeping beside him the suitable-
for-adults-only audience gasped
and small children were hurled
into the street with loud pro-
tests. As wonder and conflict
registered in his bleary eyes
strong men gripped the sides of
their seats. Great Scott! This
was over the odds! A few who
had to pay their income tax or
undergo an urgent operation
moved out. The remainder sat
glued to their seats, their eyes
glued on the screen. The
atmosphere got so hot that it
started to melt the glue.
There was a sigh from the
audience as her eyelids fluttered,
and she stretched her lissom
limbs like a bird awakening in a
strange nest. He gave her a
cagey look. Who on earth was
she? It baffled and intrigued
him. He groped for a half-
empty bombo bottle, took a
swig and felt better. Then she
smiled at him enigmatically.
The audience jumped nervously
as a sudden gust from the howl-
ing blizzard tore a pane from
the window and drenched him
with snow. The chilly blast
seemed to reach his very inner
soul, and revelation dawned in
his eyes. As his look of deter-
mination increased some of the
audience fainted; others
screamed.
With a roar he grabbed at her
feverishly—whoever she was she
wasn’t going to pinch all the
bedclothes—but there was a
great sigh of relief as she re-
fused him blanket permission.
Jonas Dill.
+ + +
“The average young wife would
gladly do without a built-in ward-
robe if she could get away from a
built-in mother-in-law.”
—Author Colin Brogan.
At least she could shelve the
problem.
+ 4*
“Two bus girls urgently require
board, share room.”
—Suburban paper.
They simply must have some-
where to stop at.
Leaving with a Flourish.
“Two men awaiting trial at Brescia,
Italy, for forgery escaped from jail
by forging release orders.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
Crime doesn’t pay, so we are
warned
In films and on the radio.
And even those who long have
scorned
The law must go where
villains go.
Yet now and then some cunning
blokes
Like these exceptions prove
the rule.
And with their subtle master-
strokes
Sho\y how the ‘Taw” can be
a fool.
For those around them little
guessed
How smart these gentlemen
could be
Till, giving rein to skill re-
pressed.
They let themselves g o
thoroughly.
D. H. E.
Perfect Unity.
Australia’s great collection of
master-minds and super-planners
of the new Socialist-Communist
heaven were gathered together
when the interviewer arrived.
Reluctant though he was to in-
terrupt the matchless flow of
golden oratory that was gushing
from “Fixer” Hashley, he had a
job to do. The following con-
versation-piece demonstrates not
only how Big Ben, inflexible
and sturdy as a well-set blanc-
mange, rules his colleagues with
magnificent discipline but also
the perfect co-ordination exist-
ing among the workers’ humble
representatives, many of whom
have made such sacrifices for
the movement that they don’t
know where their next mansion
or limousine is coming from.
Interviewer: “Now, Mr.
Chifley, in view of statements
made by one of your—er—
responsible Ministers that,
despite your emphatic assur-
ances that, following the Privy
Council’s decision, you would
drop all attempts at nationalis-
ing the private banks in favor
of ‘virile competition,’ bank-
nationalisation is far from being
dead, would you clarify the posi-
tion for the benefit of voters?”
Big Ben: “I tolled you once
before I never read Press articles
about which awkward questions
might be asked later, and, as I
haven’t seen the partic’lar article
in question, I must decline to
comment on the alleged”
Bert, the Barton Bindi-eye:
“Of course the issue’s dead —as
dead as Arthur here is due
north of the collar-stud. Noth-
ing is further from our minds
than the thought of creating a
financial Fiihrer who, by dic-
tatorially ruling the One Big
Bank, would be able to crush
any industry whose managers
he didn’t like, tie up anyone’s
account as he thought fit or re-
fuse accommodation to any
person, firm or company of
whom the party didn’t approve.
We’d never think of it —cer-
tainly not before we get a man-
date from the people on De-
cember the tenth,”
Eddie: “Take no notice of
him, pal. Me and the East Syd-
ney wharfies are running this
outfit. I tell y’ we gotta man-
date from the workers to smash
the private banks in the broader
interests o’ the proletariat. They
did it in Russia, and they’ve
made more progress there in
thirty-two years than capitalistic
countries have made in three
hundred. The High Court and
the Privy Council may have
beaten us for a time, but there’s
more ways of killing a cat than
by reading it one of the Doc.’s
speeches on how he, with a little
assistance from U.N.0., saved
us all from the Third World
War.”
Bert; “Let me earnestly
assure the voters that our party
hasn’t the least intention of
nationalising any industry at
all; we only reserve the right to
do so where a public utility—
except the breweries or the
S.T.C., of course—is being ex-
ploited to the public detriment
and”
The Galah: “Take no notice
of that political Aleck. One in-
dustry we’ll nationalise if we get
back is the Press, curse it! In
a new democracy such as ours
there should be no place for
papers which criticise pur great
“ Don't worry , mate; you'll soon get the knack of it."
scheme for planned shortages,
genteel poverty for all and mak-
ing the purchase-value of the
pound so high it will buy fully
eight-bobs’-worth of goods.”
The Fixer; “Tell yer readers
we don’t want to ’ear no more
about this ’ere socialisation
durin’ the campaign. It’s a red-
’erring ’oisted to the mainmast
by the hopposition parties to see
which way the wind’s blowin’,
because they know they ain’t
got The Bolter’s charnce when
the numbers go up. Why! I’ll
lay yer”
Deddy: “Dinna tak’ notice o’
yon Sassenach’s talk, mon.
We’ll ha’e aivery eendustry a
Gover-r-r’ment one, w’ the
peepul enjoyin’ the beenifit o’
the losses on a’ o’ them before
we get tossed oot in nineteen
fifty-twa. But, losh, mon! By
then we’ll ha’e scrambled a’ the
eggs, an’ ye noo can unscramble
’em, ye ken.”
Interviewer: “By the way,
Mr. Chifley, have you anything
to say about the threat also made
by a Cabinet colleague that life-
assurance companies will be
nationalised?”
Big Ben: “Apart from the
fact that my attention hasn’t
been drawn to the partic’lar
article in question, I don’t, at
this juncture, desire to make
any com”
Bert: “The suggestion is
utterly false! As a matter of
fact, ahy talk of socialising any-
thing is, particularly at present,
quite repugnant to our party. In
fact, only for the Constitution
not allowing it—though per-
sonally I think it does —we’d
have passed a law last session
making it an offence to link our
party’s name with Socialism,
We are firm believers, really, in
private enterprise— at least for
the next four weeks. So let us
regard the subject, as it were.
as sub judice during that time.
I think that’s fair enough.”
Eddie; “Garn! Ignore that
bibful of gyvo, sport. Just tell
the policyholders that as soon
after the elections as we can
wangle it they’ll be coughing-up
their premiums to the One Big
Guvverment Assurance office —
and there’ll be no bonuses,
either—that’s a device of capi-
talism to enslave the workers,
But, above all, tell ’em that if
the Opposition hopes for rifts
in our ranks they’re mistaken.
We all think alike, an’ we’re
fighting shoulder to shoulder!”
Bo.


Scov*, W'JLsifjlJxrtr W-Ctfv
GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
They're lighter, stronger, longer*
lasting. That's why « Globlt*
costs less In the long run.
Made by
FORD SHERINSTON LTD.
(IILBEVS
mj)
s.
+r
i
SB
m
Or
ft
ft
'
ftV
*>
ft
*** Jlll-RO^
WM?f
vacation
%S.W
6-6155
Ancestors of an Industry
&
0
William Front’s name is known to every
scientist as the propounder of ‘Trout’s Hypo-
thesis.” This advanced the theory that the
original matter or “protyle,” from which the
Ancients thought all other elements were formed,
was really hydrogen. First put forward in 1815,
the year of the battle of Waterloo, Front's
theory could not definitely be proved, but it
stimulated the exact determination of atomic
weights, and twentieth century work on the
structure of the atom has shown it to be remark-
ably near the truth.
Though a practising physician in London for the
greater part of his life, Prout was born in
Gloucestershire and educated at Edinburgh,
where he took the M.D. degree in 1811. His
scientific researches, pursued in his spare time,
were mainly concerned with physiological
chemistry, and led him, amongst other important
advances, to the discovery that free hydrochloric
acid is present in the stomach. Prout died
in London at the age of 75,
comparatively unnoticed by his
contemporaries in spite of his very
considerable scientific achieve-
ments.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
IL-90-I6
SPORTING NOTION
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
When the race now known as the
Melbourne Cup was first run in 1861
the prizemoney amounted to £2OO.
Four years later, when Toryboy
became the first grey horse to win
the race, a “piece of plate” was
added to the booty. “Piece of plate”
would be a rather modest description
of the baubles handed out in Mel-
bourne over the past few weeks, with
the Caulfield Cup trophy valued at
£2OO, the Moonee Valley Cup at
£250, the Melbourne Cup at £3OO
and, concluding the pot-distributing
season, Saturday’s Williamstown Cup
at £2OO.
Staged at Flemington by the Mel-
bourne Racing Club, into which the
old Williamstown Club and others
were merged last year, the Williams-
town Cup ran true to its reputation
as a Melbourne Cup consolation
prize, though this time it was rather
a delayed-action effect. The winner
was Saxony, who finished third
behind Rimfire and Dark Marne last
year. Hoyle and Benvolo, minor
placegetters in this year’s Melbourne
Cup, both failed badly in the
Williamstown, Benvolo having started
favorite at 7 to 2.
As he had done in the Melbourne
Cup, Bruin tried to steal the race,
and made a pretty game bid for it.
He was well clear, and travelling
comfortably, at the turn, but Saxony
inch by inch wore him down, to win
by what looked very much less than
the official margin of three-parts of
a length. Dashing Beau hung on
grimly to gain third money, while
fourth prize went to Clement, a horse
which, throughout the spring racing,
has seemed to be getting more weight
than his recent performances quite
justify.
On a track so heavy that there
had been a strong possibility of the
meeting being postponed, Saxony’s
win was particularly praiseworthy, as,
with 8.6, she was conceding Bruin
181 b. and was in receipt of weight
only from Clement, who had 8.7.
Saxony’s time for the 13 furlongs,
at 2.54 J, was outside
Columnist’s race-record and 6isec.
worse than the previous slowest since
the distance' of 13 furlongs was
adopted in 1943. Ridden in the Cup
by J. Gilmore, Saxony is a five-year-
old bay mate by Saxon from Reflex.
Isn’t it surely about time Melbourne
clubs dropped their practice of retaining
sweepstakes, entry fees, etc.? In Syd-
ney these contributions from owners
■all go to boost the winner’s cut of
the prize. The final prizemoney dis-
tribution for the Williamstown Cup,
which, uniquely, provided for place-
getters splitting up the sweepstakes
on an 85-10-5 basis, gives some idea
of how much owners are being
diddled for under the general present
set-up. Added money for the Cup
was £3OOO, but sweepstakes brought
this to £4137, with the winner receiv-
ing £2796, second £827, third £414
and fourth £lOO. As a further illus-
tration, the Melbourne Cup this year
carried record added money of
£12,500, of which the winner received
£8750. In 1923, when added money
was only £lO,OOO, sweepstakes built
the prize to £13,288, and the win-
ner’s cut was £10,288.
The returning of sweepstakes to
their contributors applied only to the
main event at Flemington on Satur-
day. Other races were worth £750,
with the winners receiving £525. Per
contrast, at Randwick on Saturday
there were four £750 races, and in
those the smallest amount received
by a winner was £645. .
Racing at Flemington for Sydney
owner F. W. Hughes, American
Edition and Folderol were the
most fancied runners in the
Rawdon Stakes for two-year-olds;
towards the end of betting American
Edition firmed, to start favorite at
5 to 2, with Folderol at 11 to 4.
American Edition (A. Breasley) led
all the way, with Folderol always the
closest to her, but beaten clearly at
the finish. The English Edition filly,
who was the only runner in the race
carrying a penalty, won by two
lengths, with Bay Mark third, half a
length behind Folderol.
After experiencing last season the
leanest trot he has had for years,
Hughes has commenced this season
on the right foot. He was the biggest
buyer at the last Sydney yearling
sales, and evidently bought well. In
1945 Hughes topped the list of win-
ning owners in Australia with £13,427
in stakes. In three subsequent
seasons horses carrying the red-and-
white checks earned £17,923, £20,656
and £27,123, but, in an inexplicable
slump last season, what is probably
the largest team in Australia managed
to win only nine races and less than
£6OOO in stakes.
Starting favorite at 5 to 2, the Lo
Zingaro four-year-old Milford won
the 10-furlongs Captain Robinson
Handicap by five lengths from Sun
Frolic, with Royal Huntsman about
as far further back, but otherwise
the day’s racing was marked by
extremely close finishes, culminating
with Royal Pageant (A. Breasley) and
Garugal (L. Lott) deadheating in the
last race, the Heatherton Handicap.
The aged St. Magnus gelding Ross
(N. Eastwood), starting at twenties
for the Strand Handicap (7f.), upset
by a half-head a fair-sized plunge
on Not Proven, who was backed
down from nines to 9 to 2; Comedy
Prince was favorite, but found 9.6
a bit solid to lump in the mud.
* * * *
To discern any resemblance between
Randwick on Saturday and a pleasant
afternoon at the races required a
vivid imagination. Overcast and
steamy, with a constant threat of
rain, which materialised about mid-
way through proceedings, the weather
was unpleasant and the favorites were
beaten with great regularity.
An oddity of the results was that
full blood-relatives in Beau Gene
and Belle Amber provided both the
shortest- and the longest-priced win-
ners of the day. Beau Gene (J.
Thompson), beaten a whisker, in
photo-finishes at his two previous
starts, made amends in narrowly
beating Rumyle by a half-neck in
the Two-year-old Stakes for colts and
geldings; at 9 to 4 Beau Gene was
the only winning favorite of the day.
In a big field of three-year-olds con-
testing the 7-furlongs Narellan
Handicap the filly Belle Amber started
at 15 to 1, and scored well from
Nerscot and Lady Kristine, both at
66 to 1. Beau Gene and Belle
Amber are both by Genetout from
the Beau Pere mare Anbeau.
Entries for the Horsley Handicap
(6f.) included Blue Diamond, Blue
Lass, Blue Ensign and Blue Flag,
but, no doubt to the great relief of
the course broadcaster, only Blue
Flag faced the starter. Carrying the
minimum of 7st., and well handled
by A. Podmore, Blue Flag won com-
fortably from Acquittal and Midwise.
Following his splendid win in the
Epsom, Denali beat only one horse
home in the Horsley; stewards in-
quired into his run and accepted
explanations. Karachi’s effort in
coming from last to a closish fifth
was worth remembering for when he
next starts over a longer journey.
It was a bunch of very mediocre
“stayers” that lined up for the 10-
furlongs Milperra Handicap, and
Duke of Syke (A. Hazelton) proved
to be the best of them on the day.
Assessed as an 8-to-l shot, the Duke
finished much too well for Erping-
ham, who had made most of the
running. Other events at Randwick
saw Rippling Tide (N. Sellwood)
take the Kindergarten Stakes for
two-year-old fillies, Entrust (B. Moon)
the Novice Handicap (13f.) and Big
Enough (R. Selkrig) the mile
Leumeah Handicap.
* * * *
For Randwick (before accept-
ances) :
Maltine Stakes: Niaranga, 1;
Rippling Tide, 2; Furling, 3. En-
courage: Double Sea, 1; Fortune’s
Hero, 2; Entrust, 3. Hoxton Park
J uvenile: Beau Gene, 1; Lord Crag,
2; English Standard, 3. Bankstown
Handicap; Lady Kristine, 1; Chitral,
2; Chancellor, 3. Camden Handi-
cap : Homeleigh Dick, 1; Blue En-
sign, 2; Blue Lass, 3. Warwick
November Handicap: Silver Buzz, 1;
Cape Neddick, 2; Laudus, 3. Welter;
Leetona, 1; Bay Rex, 2; Tynedale, 3.
* * * *
On the days when he finds the
fleeting quality of consistency mated
with his crashing services and mighty
drives, Geoff Brown, known among
the racquet-wielding fraternity as
“Bash,” is capable of beating all-
comers. He struck such form for
the Queensland championships in
Brisbane last week, and, mowing
down opposition all the way through,
took the title with a straight-sets
victory over Sidwell —8-6, 6-1, 6-2. i
The singles finalists teamed for the
doubles and beat Sedgman and
Strophfeldt 6-8, 6-4, 6-2, 6-3 in the
final.
* * * ♦
At time of writing Australian
lawn-tennis authorities Were furiously
trying to solve the mystery of the
missing Czech. Due here last Satur-
day to begin his Australian tour by
contesting the N.S.W. championships
commencing in Sydney next week-
end, Jaroslav Drobny appeared to
have done a Houdini of rare merit
after being last heard of in London.
* * * *
Having beaten N.E. Transvaal by
10 wickets, with Morris and Moroney
quickly knocking up the necessary
19 runs in the Second innings, the
Australian tourists in S’Africa moved
on to fairly massacre a Rhodesian side
at Bulawayo. After the Rhodesians
had scratched together a first-
innings total of 166 the tourists
belted the daylights out of the bowl-
ing and had 398 on the board in
297 minutes. In another double-
century opening partnership, Morris
and Moroney played identical innings
for identical scores of 104 apiece.
As if that were not enough, bowlers
Tan Johnson fin'd Colin McCool,
favored by a crumbling pitch, pro-
ceeded to do just as deadly work
with the ball. Johnson bagged 5 for
24, McCool 4 for 30, and the
chastened Rhodesians were back in
the pavilion with only 71 on the
board and the Australians the win-
ners by an innings and 161 runs
The crowd nearly rioted when the
umpires drew stumps at 6 o’clock
with the score standing at 9 for 70;
fortunately, commonsense prevailed,
and an extra couple of minutes saw
the rout completed.
* * * *
Completed in Sydney last week,
the N.S.W. v. W.A. Sheffield Shield
match saw the ’Walers notch up their
second outright win from the two
matches they have played; N.S.W.,
213 and 270—Westralia 201 and 188.
Now the New South Welshmen are
faced with the task of trying to find
somebody who can adequately replace
Keith Miller as captain, bowler, bats-
man and fieldsman, Miller, of course,
being off to S’Africa.
Moving on then to play Q’land in
Brisbane, the Westralians began well
“She’s suddenly developed a nasty rattle."
with a very solid first innings of 359;
the tally could have been a good deal
more than that but for the inexcus-
able fact of no fewer than three
batsmen being run out, each when
well settled-in. Edwards went in
this foolish fashion when he was 40,
Frankish likewise at 68 and O’Dwyer
at 34. W. Driver topscored with
109. Queensland, with Carrigan hit-
ting an exact century and Mackay
unlucky to go l.b.w. wjjen 97, had,
in reply, lost 4 for 268 at stumps on
Saturday.
Having reconsidered his strange
pronouncement that he was available
as a batsman and bowler, but not as
a wicketkeeper, Test ’keeper Don
Tallon played for Queensland v. W.A.
Oddly enough, Tallon did not bring
off one catch or stumping during the
Westralians’ first innings, but he was
shaping nicely with the bat—27 not
out —when the case was adjourned
on Saturday.
* * * ♦
One event which Australia should
be pretty sure of bagging at next
year’s Empire Games is the single
sculls. Showing that he has lost
nothing of the brilliant form which
won him the Diamond Sculls and
Olympic title, Merv Wood very
easily won the N.S.W. championship
in Sydney on Saturday. Wood won
by five lengths from K. Webb, a
tip-top oarsman who has the mis-
fortune to be rowing at the same
time as an outstanding champion.
However, Webb may get an Empire
Games trip for the doutrle-sculls
event.
* * # *
Having his first scrap for a year
or so when he tackled Ern Jarvis
(10.13) at Leichhardt, Queensland
middleweight Jim Doherty (11.2) was
understandably short of a gallop,
but there was nothing wrong with his
form while his condition lasted. The
first three rounds Doherty won easily,
looking the potential winner, but
thereafter he slowed down and began
blocking ’em with his dial, which
soon showed signs of considerable
wear and tear. Boxing neatly, Jarvis
then ran out a very easy winner, but
the Leichhardt crowd was not to be
denied its weekly amusement of hoot-
ing the decision, which they did with
a will when Mawson declared for
Jarvis.


The strongest ready-to-use glue for sticking emery cloth to
grinder discs—recommended for shearing-shed work.
1
YA
wnmmniaß
40z., Boz., 160 z., 1 gallon sizes . . . Hardware and general stores
II
Write for particulars
and quotations
fd
RAIN GAUGES
and
Meteorological Instruments
Standard Bin.
with brass rim.
measure. t
Rain Gauge
container and
£3/16/-
Standard Sin. with same parts
£l/18/-
Also Barometers, Thermom-
eters, Hygrometers, Maximum
and Minimum Thermometers
and Recording Instruments.
f
iO
01ft
M
7
/
Yes ... as far as domestic equipment and
appliances are concerned, she’s an expert on steel. She
has only to ask one question and she knows whether or not
a refrigerator, washer, range or cooker is a genuine long-term
investment —as they should be. The one question she
asks is this—“ls it built from COMROL Steel? ’ She
knows (as you now know) that its the
basic structure of an appliance that
gives it long life and essential stamina
. . . COMROL Steel will stand up to all
that years of wear will bring.
df
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.
Head Office & Works: Port Kembla, N.S.W.
JOHN LYSASHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED—GENERAL SALES AGENTS.
SYDNEY; 33 Macquarie Place. MELBOURNE: 70-84 Clarendon Street South
Melbourne. ADELAIDE: 13 Grenfell Street. BRISBANE: 307-311 Queen
Street. FREMANTLE: Corner of Short and Pakenham Streets. WELLINGTON,
N.Z.: John Lysaqht's Bristol Works Limited.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS"
Wool-labelling.
“C.S.”; The wool-labelling
law to come into force in New
Zealand on April 1, 1950, pro-
vides that all wool products
must be labelled in English with
the customary trade description
and the percentage by weight of
wool. The principal exemption
relates to any product contain-
ing less than 50 p.c. by weight
of wool and not called wool or
worsted.
Wool products may be
labelled “All wool” or “Pure
wool” if they are 100 p.c. wool
by weight, though the use of a
small proportion of other fibre
for reinforcing or other useful
purposes is allowed, provided
that it is indicated on the label.
A tolerance of 1 p.c. is allowed
in a product labelled “All wool”
or “Pure wool” and of 3 p.c. in
all other wool products. In cal-
culating the percentage of
weight of wool no account is
to be taken of linings, padding,
stiffening and so on, or of any
other ornamentation in the
material up to 7 p.c.
It will be an offence to sell or
offer for sale any wool product
labelled or marked to show that
it contains any fibre or material
not actually present, and also
an offence to sell or offer for
sale any substance not contain-
ing wool if described as “arti-
ficial wool,” “imitation wool,”
“synthetic wool” or by any
other expression including the
word “wool” or any abbrevia-
tion or variation of that word
except cotton-wool or steel-
wool.
Two years will be allowed
after 1/4/’5O for the sale of un-
labelled stocks purchased before
that date.
British Sheep.
“Cheops”: In B. 24/8/’49
“Rameses” states “The first
Hampshire Downs sheep ex-
ported from England to Aus-
tralia for 41 years are being
shipped to Victoria at the end
of September.” The Winter-
Irvings had a fine stud of these
sheep as far back as the ’nineties
on Tirrengower Estate, near
Pirron Yaloak (Vic.).
No one at that time, in wes-
tern Victoria at least, had any
interest in fat-lamb production.
Merino sheep predominated,
and they were crossed with
Lincolns to give a first cross
with the object of producing
comebacks by recrossing with
Merinos.
It was a pity the venture at
Tirrengower was a failure. A
certain fickleness is manifest in
the constant changing of the
types of British breeds. At one
time it was Cotswolds and Lin-
colns, then Shropshires, and,
somewhat in the following order,
Suffolks, South Downs, English
Leicesters, Border Leicesters,
Dorset Horns and now turning
to Cheviots, and Ryelands and
back to English Leicesters. Next
it will be Oxford Downs.
Soil Reclamation.
“The Expert”: Bare patches
on the plains, commonly known
as scalded, are examples of wind-
erosion, and some reclamation
is possible and advisable. Ob-
ject of all control is firstly to
give a good cover to the soil to
prevent it shifting and secondly
to retard run-off of water suffi-
ciently to let it soak in.
The first step is to make cer-
tain there is no overstocking ;
even on moderately - stocked
properties wind-erosion occurs
around watering - places and
stock-camps. If possible the
affected paddock should be
rested completely. Next step is
to stop scouring by wind and
water and to hold the water
where it will sink in. On prac-
tically flat and featureless plain
country a criss-cross design of
checkerboard furrows is ad-
vised, with the checks about 4ft.
to 6ft. square.
The results from this simple
method are amazing. The earth-
banks act as miniature wind-
breaks and collect a fair share
of airborne grass-seed, the
furrows collect and hold any
rainfall, which soaks in and
moistens the subsoil far more
effectively than if the hard,
scalded crust had not been
broken. As a rule the first rain
promotes some grass-cover, and,
if this can be left to seed, the
recovery is swift.
Another method, but more
expensive, is to spread about
6in. depth of wheat and oat
straw over the scalded area and
work it in with a rotary hoe.
The resultant weed-growth was
hoed in and pasture-seeds were
sown with gratifying results.
Home-curing Bacon.
“Girrawheen”; To 1001 b. of
meat allow 81b. of dry salt, 11b.
of good brown sugar, 3oz. salt-
"‘Moses,’ she calls him. Says she FOUND him in
the bulrushes!”
cal. It is dangerous because he
may attack people, and you’ll
lose money because services
can’t be controlled nor can
records be kept. A good bull
is worth good management.
Beating Sprogs.
“Eniv”: “Ware’s” method of
beating sparrows (B. 24/8/’49)
w'ould call for an immense col-
lection of powdered-milk-tins to
protect the plants in my South
Australian home-garden. With
the absence of fresh green grass
from the surrounding paddocks
the sparrows have attacked home-
gardens in force. Black sewing-
machine cotton is a simple and
effective protection. Set twigs
petre, l|oz. of allspice. If meat
is tough add more dry salt.
After cutting up and cooling
the carcass, place the meat on a
sloping surface and rub a por-
tion of the salt into the skin
until it becomes quite soft.
Allow meat to drain for 48
hours, discarding all liquid
drained off. Mix half of the re-
maining salt with half of the
saltpetre and rub thoroughly
into the meat. Mix the remain-
ing half of salt and saltpetre
with the sugar and spice and
rub it in. Again allow the meat
to drain, but collect the liquid
this time and pour it liberally
over the bacon on alternate
days. At the end of three
months soak the bacon in cold
water for 12 hours, then hang
up and dry for seven days.
Care of the Bull.
“Rooster”: Bull calves
should be separated from the
heifers at six months old and
kept in a paddock on good feed
the maximum distance away.
Dehorn, if you favor it, early.
At a year to 15 months old he
may be given a few cows, but
don’t allow a full complement
till after two years of age. A
fully - grown bull may serve
about 50 cows per year, but it’s
wise to distribute the times of
service as evenly as practicable.
Give him a good-sized pad-
dock, strongly fenced, with a
shelter-shed in which he can be
locked when necessary. Insert
a ring in his nose before he is
12 months old, renewing it
whenever it shows signs of weak-
ness. Always use a strong staff
in leading; never trust to a
halter or chain. If he is to be
kept for constant service give
plenty of nourishing food, but
don’t let him become too fat.
Good oaten-chaff or clover-hay,
supplemented with oats or
lucerne, makes a good diet. In
addition he requires clean pas-
turage.
Common as the practice is
among dairy-farmers, running
the bull with the herd or keeping
him in too-close proximity is
both dangerous and uneconomi-
around the seed-beds when the
plants appear. Stretch a strand
of cotton around and several
strands across the beds about
2in. above ground level. After
transplanting or when seeds are
sown in rows, arrange twigs in
sets of three at 4ft. intervals
along each row. Three strands
are quite enough. The outer
strands should be about Sin.
from the centre of the row and
the same distance above the
ground, while the centre strand
should be 6in. high.
The black cotton is invisible
to the sparrow, and after several
have flown against the threads
they and their kind soon learn
to give that bed a wide berth.
Over 15 years this method has
given complete protection to
both flowers and vegetables.
Young Pigs.
“Myrrhee”; From the time
they receive their first supple-
mentary feed until they’re
weaned (about eight weeks) the
food is best given in a creep.
Use two shallow troughs, one
for the meal and the other for
the milk or water. Replenish
them frequently, say, four or
five times a day, as suckers
should be fed little and often.
Dry meal is preferable to
wet; wet mash is inclined to
ferment if not eaten at once.
On the dry ration keep liquid
up to the pigs. A shovelful of
fresh earth thrown into the pen
daily will satisfy mineral re-
quirements.
Lucerne-cutting.
“Myrr”: Right time is when
the flowers are appearing or
shoots are starting from the
' crown ; either or both may be
a guide. Lucerne cut at this
stage is finer and gives a better-
quality fodder than if it’s allowed
to run to full bloom.
Mature lucerne is coarser in
the stem, and most of the leaves
(the best part of the fodder) are
lost in stacking and baling opera-
tions. Curing calls for judgment
and a close watch on the weather
at harvest. In Victoria lucerne
is usually cut and allowed to lie
in the swathe for a day, but in
hot weather the baler or rake
follows the mower soon after
cutting.
As a precaution against heat-
ing in the stack, sprinkle the hay
with coarse salt (201 b. of salt to
the ton of hay).
Fluoride in Water.
“Oxo”: The reduction of
fluorides in water to innocuous
levels for stock was quite im-
practicable on a large scale, and
the addition of counteractants
held little prospect of success,
stated Dr. M. White, agricul-
tural chemist and biochemist, in
the annual report of Queens-
land Department of Agriculture.
The mitigation studies, begun
over two years ago, are near-
ing completion, and already
some clear-cut conclusions have
been reached. These indicate
clearly that the only economical
approach to the problem of


i
ti,
THE HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
The self-contained, self-emptying
Sanitary System.
Est. 1027.
Imitation is Sincerest Flattery
Beware of imitations similar in appear-
ance but lacking the internal patent
which makes the Ilygeia Dissolvenator
so efficient.
Intending purchasers are invited to In-
vestigate the integrity of' the Hygeia
Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd., the bona fides of
the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the
value and scope of the Hygeia Guarantee
compared with any other guarantee.
The Hygeia Guarantee includes 7 years
against corrosion.
Let the record of the 12,000 Dissol-
venators sold during the past 22 years
be your guide—do not be misled by
specious statements.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
26-30 Bridge Street, Sydney.
Established 20 years.
DISTRIBUTORS:
SJj.W.: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co.
(N.S.W.), 82 Goulburn St., Sydney.
Queensland: Hygeia Dissol venators (Qld.),
609 Colonial Mutual Building, Queen
St., Brisbane.
Victoria: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Vic.)
Pty., Ltd., 460 Collins St., Melbourne.
South Australia: Hygeia Dissolvenator Co.,
(S.A.), Edment’s Building, Bundle
St., Adelaide.
Western Australia: R. P. Mclnemey &
Co., Ltd., 441 Murray St., Perth.
Tasmania ; Wm. Crosby & Co., Ltd., Laun-
ceston and Hobart.
Darwin: O. T. See Kee, Radolectrix Sales
and Services,
John
Buncle
Large
Two-knife
Hand
GREEN-FEED
CUTTERS
£l7
df
Also small Table Model Three-
knife Green-feed Cutters.
CONCRETE
MIXERS
for hand or
power use
cub. ft £26/,19/6
14 cub. ft £2l/2/6
d
(5?
CEMENT-BRICK-MAKING
MACHINES
will make five different-size bricks
Price from £7/15/-
The above machines are new
and available for immediate de-
livery.
There are over 300 machines to choose
from at—
GEO. HOWELL’S
Great Western Highway, Penrith.
’Phone: 100, 258 or 259.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILLTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots SOlb.
wight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co.,
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on 0.0. D. Order,.
fdf
df
as in great
grandfather’s day—
Pastoralists profit from
the complete and efficient
service of A.M.L.&F.
df
AMLF
Pastoral finance • Station requirements _ „ ____ gja
Inc. In England 1863
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
Hoad Office for Australia: 4 BLIGH STREET. SYDNEY
and at Melbourne and Brisbane.
Country Branches — NtS.W,: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Oowra, Scone,
Morec, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’Ld: Townsville, Charleville, St.
George, Ounnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents: McPhie & Co. Pty.,
Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth. Vic.: Wodonga.
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
FOR AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for (a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence
at St. John’s College and an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable
at the discretion of the Trustees,
or (b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE
Providing all fees and text books not exceeding £BO per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the
Will of the late James Murphy, of Como.
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are
insufficient to enable their sons to study Agricultural Science and must
satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the University of Sydney,
or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be.
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later
than the 9th January, 1950, in the case of Bursaries tenable at the
Hawkesbury Agricultural College and not later than the 6th February,
1950, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further
particulars may be obtained from: —
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
m CAN NON DELIVER
1000001353
30H.P.LANZ
Ciade OU VvaetoM
mm
- m
U
m
H Ik 9 88
■■*■-?. >; v M -**
Mi
■ ■
s mi
i ;
m
m
UN2 & K.L. gg|P
30,40 &45h,p, Models I KL2I9
LOWEST RUNNING COSTS
OF ANY TRACTOR MADE
Any Lanz or K.L. Bulldog Crude Oil Trietor
owner will tell you how easy it is to save up
Co £ISO per year on low cost crude oil oper>
ation. He'll tell you, too, that the sheer
simplicity of Bulldogs' single cylinder slow
speed engines, with only 8 main moving parts,
drastically reduce wear and maintenance-
cut repair bills to a fraction those of compli.
cated tractor engines. So, if you are a medium
power user, start enjoying the wonderful
money saving advantages of this 30 H.P.
LANZ Crude Oil Model—ready for delivery
to your property NOW.
fEE
your Local
BULLDOG Agent
State Distributors:
N.S.W., Dangar, Gedye & Malloch Ltd., 10-14 Young St., Sydney, VICTORIA
K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 304 Spencer St., Melbourne. SOUTH AUS-
TRALIA, Elder, Smith & Co. Limited, 27-31 Currie St., Adelaide. WEST
AUSTRALIA, Kelly & Lewis (W.A.) Pty. Ltd., 349 William St., Perth.
TASMANIA, K. L. Distributors Pty. Ltd., 233 Elizabeth St., Hobart.
QUEENSLAND, K.L. Tractor Sales Pty. Ltd., 121 Brunswick St., Valley,
Brisbane.
fluorosis was through manage-
ment. Experiments designed to
determine how alternation be-
tween free and affected water
could reduce the severity of the
disease are under way.
On the purely scientific side,
said Dr. White, it was worth
recording that the similarity of
the bone rarefication of rickets
>to that of fluorosis was most
striking; some of the clinical
features, also, were comparable.
Grasses for Dry Soils.
“Wilco”: Some graziers in the
Burnett area (S.Q.) are using
other grasses in place of that old
standby on medium and low-
rainfall country Rhodes.
Rhodes has been going off lately,
especially on the poorer soils.
A. A. Petrie has gone in for
green panic grass in a large way.
This Gayndah grazier has it on
forest and scrub soils, and he’s
found it hardier than Rhodes
grass on hard and dry land. He
doesn’t kill every tree before
grassing his property, as he be-
lieves that trees here and there
check cold winds and ease winter
frosts, whilst giving grazing stock
shelter in summer and winter.
Green panic grass isn’t spoiled by
a bit of shade and competition
from trees.
Legumes for Orchards.
“R. Howie”: Orchard-land
is usually bare in summer, but
grows herbage in- winter. When
ploughed-in the herbage
furnishes nutrient matter for the
trees to feed on, as well as
fibrous material to improve the
soil’s capacity to hold water.
Any kind of plant will provide
this matter, but legumes are out-
standing, because they are rich
in nitrogen.
Of the many suitable legumes
lupins and tick-beans are prob-
ably the best. Both grow heavy
foliage rich in nitrogen. They
are sure croppers provided they
get plenty of super, and
thorough cultivation to elimi-
nate competition in the early
stages.
Cultivation is the catch. Even
with a dense cover of lupins
friable soil on hillsides will wash
with the winter rains if it has
been ploughed early. In these
circumstances cover - cropping
does more harm than good. The
alternative is not to plough. If
the trees are manured as they
should be a vigorous growth of
volunteer weeds will shoot with
the first rain. By the end of
winter there will be a good bulk
of herbage to plough in. This
is cheap humus, because there
is no autumn-ploughing cost.
But it has nowhere near the
nitrogen content of the legumin-
ous crop.
Here in south W.A. the wild
turnip takes charge of rich
land after a few years of non-
cropping, This plant has the
ability to seed after only a few
weeks’ growth, so that its life-
cycle is not affected by fallow-
ing about August. A more
valuable plant like the lupin has
made no seed by this time, and
so does not appear next year
unless resown.
We’ve tried to compromise by
harrowing-in clover with the
first rains. The seed germinates,
but the rank weed-growth
chokes the clover. Seeds that
are sown by hand on the sur-
face never have a chance with
those that grow in situ. What
we want is a leguminous plant
that sets seed early in the grow-
ing period. Some native peren-
nial legumes do this; no annual
does so. It’s a job for the
scientists.
Hints for the Farm.
“Rooster”: In some localities
the home gardener will find the
soil heavy and hard to work.
Mix sand with it, the poorer
quality the better. One cubic
yard of sand spread over nine
square yards and dug in will
usually give good results. If
still too heavy repeat the treat-
ment until the soil is of right
texture. The sand need only go
down as deep as it is likely the
crop will go. .
“E.M.R.”; The art of showing
dairy cattle with success is ac-
quired only after close study. In
selecting show cows from the
herd, look for cows with good
heads, straight-top lines, clean-
cut feminine appearance and
plenty of style. Udders must be
capacious and extend well for-
ward and far up between the
thighs at the rear. Make sure
the texture is soft and pliable
and teats evenly placed and of
medium size. See that the
quarters are even.
“Big Billy”; Poultry need two
different types of grit—the first
in the form of stones (small,
sharp screenings are better than
rounded river or beach stones),
the second of the soft mineral
type such as oyster-shell or
limestone.
“Myrr”; No matter how well
a tree is sprayed, a few codlin
grubs will get into apples and
pears. After reaching maturity
they descend the trunk, take
cover in loose bark and other
rubbish at the base and hatch
out in a few weeks, a further
menace to the fruit. To get them
put bag bands on the trunk no
later than the end of November
and examine them every 10
days, before the moth flies.
Keep butts and forks clear of
debris which might offer alterna-
tive shelter.
“Beau Forte”: Never run a
windscreen-wiper blade on a dry
screen. Dust acts as an abrasive
beneath the blade and will
quickly scratch the glass.
“North”: Sweet-potatoes grow
wonderfully in a hot climate if
there is plenty of water. Planted
with other vegetables it is a task
to keep them from rioting over
the garden. Give them a
separate place and plenty of
room. Farmer’s Special is a
good mid-season variety, with
white flesh. Porto Rico is an
excellent yellow-fleshed early
variety. Rooted plants can be
obtained by post and should be
in by early summer.


Executor - Trustee - Attorney
A BULWARK
Against Misforinne
'THAT
»
the
When you appoint Burns Philp Trust
Company Limited as your executor or trustee, you
show sound judgement. The administration of your
estate will, one day, become the responsibility of ex-
perienced directors and capable officers. Your family’s
interests will be fully protected at every turn by this
permanent and solidly financed institution.
"Hands That Never Leave the Wheel” explains how
the Company can assist you. A complimentary copy of
this interesting booklet will be forwarded on request .
DIRECTORS:
James Burns
P. T. W. Black
MANAGER: L. S. Parker
Joseph Mitchell
Eric Priestley Lee
SECRETARY: E. R. Overton. F.F.I.A,
Burns Philp Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
Tel. BU 5901
Box 543, G.P.0., Sydney
BPI 4-49
YSAGHT
looks
ahead.
s
1
r
/f
s
*6
*
*
is
Among the many well-known
brands of Lysaght sheet steel
in constant demand for
manufacturing
and building
purposes, are
the following :
NEW PRODUCTS
It may be some time before adequate supplies
of galvanized iron and sheet steel are available
to meet the full requirements of industry . • .
but LYSASHT LOOKS AHEAD with plans for
the steady improvement of its products and
the development of new types and qualities
designed to speed the construction of modern
factories and farm buildings. Plant facilities
are also being constantly expanded in an effort
to overtake the present huge demand and it
k hoped this policy will result in full trade
requirements being met in the near future.
SUNSTAR
SOUTHERN CROSS
•
CARBON STEELS
O
TERNE PLATE
•
ZINCANNEAL (R.L.I
O
ZINCANNEAL (PANEL)
•
m. ORB
=»»
The Lysaght works,
Port Kembla, N.S.W.
JOHN LYSA G H T (A II SIR ALI A) PTY
LTD,
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle.
LI 85-4887
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
Words of verse “That Day at
Boiling Downs’’ by Jack Mathieu. —
4726.
To buy “Keena” razor-blade
sharpener.—4727.
Playwright, with productiohs to his
credit, would like to hear from other
dramatists; also from drama groups
interested and looking for Australian
scripts.—4728.
To buy copy of The Bulletin
Reciter.— 4725.
Information Sought.
Some details about the Warra-
gamba River (N.S.W.), site of the
proposed Warragamba Dam ?
The Warragamba River junctions
with the Nepean River about a mile
west of Wallacia. Its catchment area
extends from Lake Bathurst on the
south to Wallerawang on the north,
and from Robertson on the east to
Crookwell on the west. Moss Vale,
Goulburn, Taralga, the Jenolan Caves
and Lithgow are situated within its
borders. The native words “warra”
and “gamba” mean swamp and ti-
tree respectively, so it is possible
that the river derived its name from
an old ti-tree swamp not now in
existence. The name Warragamba,
which Lachlan Macquarie in 1810
directed should be retained, applies
only to the short length of about 14
miles of river from the junction of
the Cox’s and Wollondilly Rivers
(these two being the main sources of
its supply) to its confluence with the
Nepean. The Warragamba is, there-
fore, the outlet of the Wollondilly
and the Cox’s and their tributaries,
including the Nattai and Wingecar-
ribbee. Its distinctive feature is that
its course consists of a sandstone
gorge approximately 1000 ft. wide,
with sides 300-400 ft. high adjoining
the Nepean, widening to 2000 ft. near
the point of junction with its two
main tributaries. Above this the
valley opens out widely, forming the
well-known Burragorang Valley.
• ♦ ♦ *
Some details regarding a colorful
old-time Western Queensland character
known as “The Eulo Queen” ?
There is very little printed informa-
tion regarding the Queen of Eulo,
though she was evidently well known
to old-timers in Western Queensland.
She kept the Royal Hotel at Eulo,
which was constructed from mud
from the Paroo River, and which is
no longer in existence. She had a
reputation for generosity, though also
for sharpness in business. She was
said to have had a wonderful collec-
tion of opals. N. L. Land, in his
History of Cunnamulla, states that
in 1879 a Mr. Robinson (husband of
the Queen of Eulo) became manager
of Cobb and Company’s store at
Cunnamulla. Apparently she was
twice married, as in a photograph
published later she is described as
“Mrs. Grey—the Queen of Eulo —
an old and respected resident of
Eulo.”
* * * *
Some hints on the feeding of poddy
lambs and how to prevent scouring?
It is preferable to feed them on
milk rich in cream. Milk from a
Jersey cow is quite suitable, but if
milk is obtainable only from a cow
which has low butterfat content it
is advisable to add a little cream
to bring the final mixture to contain
about 6 per cent, of butterfat. For
the first three days 2oz. of this rich
milk should be fed every four hours.
After the third day 3 to 4oz. of
milk should be given every four
hours for the first week. When the
lambs are one week old, three feeds
daily of Boz. of milk is sufficient.
Care should be taken to make sure
that the bottle and rubber teat are
thoroughly washed before each feed.
Milk should be fed at blood heat,
approximately 100 deg. Fahr. A tea-
spoon of castor-oil would probably
be of some advantage if the lamb
has not suckled the ewe. If careful
precautions are taken concerning the
cleansing of the bottle and teat, and
the milk is fed at the correct tempera-
ture, little scouring should take place.
Sulphamezathine given at the rate of
one gram per 101 b. body-weight once
daily for three or four days is usually
satisfactory for scouring.
* * * *
(1) Total capital indebtedness of the
Sydney metropolitan tramways as at
June 30, 1949? (2) Total number of
route-miles of tramway in the Sydney
area ? (3) How many miles of Sydney
tramway have been discontinued and
converted to railway, omnibus and
trolley-bus operation ? (4) Interest
paid in respect of the Sydney tram-
ways for the year 1948-49 ?
(1) £4,352,946. (2) 132. (3) 42.
(4) £138,746.
* * * *
(1) Where are the principal pearling
centres in Australia ? (2) What is the
price per ton of mother-of-pearl ?
(1) Thursday Island, Darwin, and
Broome and Onslow (W.A.). (2)
Prices depend upon the quality and
grade proportions. Shell from Broome
centre has been selling at £25 per
ton better than Onslow, Darwin and
Thursday Island. Prices average
from £305 to £325 per ton f.o.b. for
all centres except Broome, which is
around £350 per ton f.o.b.
* * * *
A few details about an artist named
Tom Midwood, said to be Tasmania’s
first caricaturist ?
Born at Hobart in 1855, he went
to sea, and for a time toured with a
musical company in the United
States. He was a skilful player of
the banjo, the guitar and the man-
dolin, and contributed to the “British
Musical Gazette” and the American
journal the “Cadenza.” Returning
to Hobart, he was employed in the
drafting department of the Public
Works Office, and while so engaged
contributed caricatures to the “Tas-
manian Mail” and the “Critic.”
During the ’nineties he made carica-
tures of most of the leading citizens
of Hobart. He died at Hobart in
1912.
Brief Answers.
M.L.K.: Thompsons’ Engineering
and Pipe Cos., Castlemaine (Vic.), issue
an excellent booklet called Dredging
for Gold and Tin. Molesworth’s
Engineer’s Pocket Book will give
details on wire ropes P. 8.:
“Snowy" ‘ Baker won the amateur
middleweight championships of N- S-
Wales and Australasia in 1905 and
1906. For some years he conducted
the Riviera County Club at Los
Angeles, and now has the St. Francis
Riding Club, 701 Seventh-avenue,
San Francisco, California G.K.8.:
Dyraaba (N.S.W.) is an aboriginal
place-name meaning “sandhills”.. • •
A.C.D.R.: Ron Randell married
Elaine Maltzman in October, 1948.
They are now separated and wait-
ing for their divorce to become
finalised W.M.Y.: Suitable names
would be Attunga, “high place”:
Neerini, “high, elevated”; or Warra-
wong, “hillside” V.F.: Write
Public Library of N.S.W., Sydney,
for typed list of Australian aboriginal
words suitable for names of houses,
culled from vocabularies in the
Mitchell Library J.C.: Mrs. Emily
Bulcock, whose late husband was a
member of an early pioneer family
in the Caloundra area, is of the
opinion that Currimundi means
“flying-foxes” H.P.S.: Write Mrs.
Phyllis Aylward, Hon. Sec., Fellow-
ship of Australian Writers, Box 3448,
G.P.0., Sydney....A.B.W.: In Syd-
ney the consumption of water per
head of population averaged, in 1947,
70 gallons per day J.K.C.:
Champion boxers of Australia are:
flyweight, Mickey Hill; bantam-
weight, Elley Bennett; featherweight,
vacant since Eddie Miller retired,
elimination tournament being held to
decide his successor; lightweight.
Jack Hassen; welterweight, Kev
Delaney; middle, light-heavy and
heavyweight, Dave Sands... .T.S.G.:
A copy of John Farrell’s My Sun-
downer and Other Poems (1904) would
be worth about £1 in perfect order
I.McN.: A solution of 5 p.c. para-
dichlorbenzene in kerosene, applied
by means of a syringe, will kill the
larvae. A suitable syringe may be
obtained from Houghton and Byrne,
Ltd., 2 Bridge-street, Sydney. Any
further information may be obtained
from the Division of Wood Tech-
nology, N.S.W. Forestry Commission,
96 Harrington-street, Sydney... •
P.R.8.: There is no known source
of seed supply in Queensland for
Spartina townsendii grass seed. Small
plantings were made on tidal flats
at various points on the Queensland
coast many years ago, some of which
established, to be destroyed later on
by crabs F.L.P.: An Economic
History of Australia by Edward
Shann (18s.), obtainable from
Georgian House, 431 Bourke-street,
Melbourne... .W.M.: C. A. Jeffries,
author of the “By Rail and Sema-
phore” and “Shepherd Kings of
Canterbury” series of short stories,
was born in England on April 13,
1869, and died in Sydney on April
20, 1931.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS, No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless stamps accompany .
MS, should be addressed to the Editor,
R.G.T.: Your bushfire was as ex-
citing as a cigarette-lighter EJ.S.:
These days there is a tendency to
make characters talk and act instead
of the author... .B.C.: We think the
inspiration for your travelling cow
was the little piggy that went to
market A likely story!
Bellerive: We’d like to have that
porker roasted: —
S.K.: “Nocturne” blacked out.
W.A.: Turned up our noses at
your analysis of snobbery R.E.G.:
We don’t mind ingenious crook
stories, but we’re not fencing paste.
A.J.S.: You go walking in the
fog, you meet a beautiful and well-
dressed girl, and she turns out to be
a philosophic abstraction —it’s heart-
breaking 8.C.: Couldn’t get to
the bottom of “Lonely on T0p”....
G. ; Brazil’s a bit off our beat.
M.I.: “Elephant’s Foot” a bit
light for us A.W.: Rather it re-
mained your nightmare... .1.F.L.:
Reminiscences aren’t stories
E. You spend too much time
arranging situations for your charac-
ters to loaf round in T.D.: Con-
fidence tricks involving spades smack
too much of skullduggery... .H. 8.:
About six standard detective stories
in one —but we turned them all down.
M.L.: Much too slight P. 8.:
Yes, that dog was almost human —
and the other characters, also
H. : He shot her to save her
from a Jap, who turned out to be an
Australian and shot him—just a
comedy of errors, like E.F.: Rich
old Maori story just missed R.H.:
“Jag” not for our mag C.E.G.:
“Perhaps it was the Water?” was,
perhaps, too much watered-down
F. : Too ecstatic for this com-
monplace world... .W.H.8.; Themes
conventional, treatment below par.
C.S.J.: Pathetic story about
Ron and Ken and dear little Peter
drowned in its own tears... .K. 8.8.:
Swagman who kills a squatter’s
daughter’s father, and then finds that
he himself is the squatter’s daughter’s
father is an unsatisfactory sort of
criminal T.R.: We are offered
every week more beer-stories, drunk-
stories, hangover-stories, jimjam-and-
yellow-snakes-stories than a respect-
able temperance journal like ourselves
could use in a lifetime J.L.: Five
lines of “Broken Hearted,” unfettered
by punctuation:—
Perhaps in ages to come
When in your luxury flat
' You’ll think ’pon the eve we parted
And the vows I made ’neath the lamplight
And by your answer I was broken hearted.
A.H.: Criticism of no use to a
man who can write as badly as that.
L.R.: Story of a cow-cocky
who chased a carpet-snake for several
miles in order to capture a rooster
which the reptile had swallowed, and
the description of how the rooster
tasted at dinner next day, is too lurid
for print....P.S.T.: “Sir,—Are these
verses any good?” To which we
reply as follows: “Sir, —The verses
are no good whatever.” (This corres-
pondence must now cease.)....
R W B.: Your poem has two wooden
legs. We heard it stumping up the
stairs and stopped it on the landing,
where the light is bad and murder is
easy S.T.: You are right—it is
doggerel, lame doggerel A.P.W.:
A weary, down-at-heels story. _ Re-
sembles a Domain dosser with a
brand-new belltopper... .P.T.P.: “If
no good to you, please return.
Have you got such a thing as a stamp
about you?... .R.8.A.: Suggest that
you put your stuff through a con-
centrating miff S.G.S.; Afraid we
can’t put out to sea m your dream-
ship P.G.: You can’t rhyme
“township” with “bunyip” in our
pages.
TO ARTISTIC (AND INARTISTIC)
CORRESPONDENTS.
L.F.: Caricature doesn’t consist
solely in drawing big heads on smaJ
bodies. There are other things....
L.M.P.: It may be new or it may be
old: anyhow, it’s darned poor ....
D.M.T.: Picture doesn t cry aloud
for publication; on the contraiy, it
asks for burial in the basket....
F.TT.: An indifferent drawing, and
the appended joke is well up myean.
gp • a joke which depends
for "its existence on the fancied re-
semblance of the words beer an
“bier” will always be a poor joU
living in a hovel up a back-street ....
BW.: Don’t want to say anyth.--
uncivil, despite the ter "^,|f m P ta ;
tion C C.: Drawmg horrible, and
we expended five valuable minutes
trying to find the point of the gag.
AM.G.: His legs resemble two
factory chimneys with trousers on.
N J • Drawing is quite impos-
sible: "the man’s neck looks like the
leg of an elephant.
From out of the yard
Of a farm abode
Forth bolted a pig
Along the road.
Rope in hand pursued
By the farmer’s son
Onward for freedom
The absconder run.
To frolic and sprint
He’d plenty of space,
But was captured after
A exciting chase.


Missing Friend.
IT is requested that any of the children
of the late,MRS. MARY CLARKE (nee
COONES), or of the late ALBERT
COONES, formerly of Perth, in Tasmania,
communicate with the undersigned.—
RITCHIE & PARKER ALFRED GREER
& CO., Solicitors, 81 St. John Street
Launceston, Tasmania.
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens' Assurance
Co., Ltd.
Martin Place and Castlereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
• The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £60,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
’ £9,500,000.
M. C. Alder, Gen. Manager.
JSw* A “SWAN”
ON CHRISTMAS MORNING
The Present
with a
Future!
It’s such a pleasure to give the
“Swan” Eternal . . and what a
treasure to receive! Built with
the same precision as a fine
watch, this exquisite writing-
instrument has beauty, balance
and effortless action. For a
present with a future, choose a
“Swan” Eternal the longest-
living pen in the world!
J
X 4
*****
k
C 5
J
The “Swan” Eternal
Manifold nibs will give
4 good carbon copies. The
unique Leverless filling-
device fills your “Swan”
pen brimful by a twist of
the wrist.
At all high-class
Jewellers, Stationers
and Stores. L42E,
at 53/-. L44E, at
70/3. L46E, at 88/9.
A3MOAS ‘Oll ‘Aid CISOV) 'O3 S 0001 ‘3IBVW
7/129
d
KODAK \
for Cameras'
hm
▲
BROWNIE REFLEX.
Reflex viewfinder show*
picture in actual size;
Time and instantaneou*
shutter; push-button re-
lease; 12 exp. {ll x l|
in.).
SIX-20 BROWNIE
New model Brownie; two
large viewfinders; time
and instantaneous shutter;
all-metal body; 8 exp.
(2ix3iin.).
▼
1
fd
SIX-20 KODAK ”A. , ‘
Anastar f/4.5 lens; focus-
ing from 3i ft. to infinity;
Epsilon shutter with tour
speeds to 1/150 sec.; time
and bulb; 8 exposures (2$
*3i in.).
►
BABY BROWNIE.
Modern, attractive, all-
moulded plastic; lens in
front of shutter; handy
eye-level viewfinder;
simple to use; 8 expos-
ures (2i x l| in.) on
V 127 film. Price, 21/-.
SIX-20 FOLDING*.
BROWNIE.^
Economical and
efficient; time and
instantaneous
shutter; all - metal
body; black-grained
leatherette cover-
ing; 8 exp. (2i x 3i
Prices
to alteration without notice.
a
' f
KODAK (A/ASIA) PTY. LTD. —Branches in all States.
I/ODAK
N pr, nt
Wf USB
VflOX
KODAK \
Verichrome film!
You press the button—
and Kodak Verichrome
film does the rest.
Kodak film is scien-
tifically made to give
the best results with
every camera. It's
the film that gets
the picture.
fd
KODAK
Developing
& Printing
The developing and print-
ing of your snapshots is
a Job for an expert. You'll
get clear, better snap-
shots snapshots that
live when you leave
your films with the
Kodak Developing and
Printing Service.
The Temperamental
Brew
By “Col M.”
PERHAPS not steep enough
to support the claim of
Ern Gumley that when
he swept the steps of his
pub at the summit the dust
would roll down and flatten
itself on the wall of the Rail-
way Hotel at the bottom —and
fittingly, too —the grade of the
hill running up. through the
town was sufficient to cause the
drivers of the tourist buses to
change gear halfway and curse
the Civic Fathers for putting a
town in such a fool place, any-
way.
A month or so after you had
taken up residence in the Pacific
Flats, a building exactly half-
way up the hill, this gear-chang-
ing ceased to worry you, or so
Jack Barrel found. And those
who came through at night
were worth nothing more than
an interrupted snore, a punch at
the pillow and a sigh as you fell
back to sleep.
One Saturday morning Jack
received a letter from his uncle
at Marble Bar, a man who
wrote to his nephew usually
only at Christmas, and then, in
one page, managed to give a
complete review of the twelve
months past. But this unseason-
able letter was shorter than any,
starting as it did with “Dear
Jack, try this. It’s all that makes
life worth living out here” . . .
and winding up with “Lotsa,
Uncle Clem.”
Jack tried it. After he’d re-
ceived the green light from Mrs.
Murphy, the landlady, he
gathered in the shed the appara-
tus the letter called for. He
looked the things over to check
them with his uncle’s list.
“Two clean kero.-tins—right.
Two dozen bottles and seals —
right. Hops, yeast, eggshells for
clearing right. One ounce
sodium metabisulphide to be put
in last—right.” It seemed to be
all there.
Some days later Jack thumped
on the last bottle-seal and closed
the door behind him, prepared
to “leave seven days” as
prescribed by Uncle Clem.
Jack and his wife lived on the
top flat of the Pacific and knew
most of the drivers on the
tourist run. When these patient
men had bedded down the last
travelling spinster in their charge
they would leave the Railway
Hotel for a while and go up to
Jack’s for a chat; next morning,
as they drove up the hill on their
way, they would start honking
at Luigi’s fruit-shop and wave
up to Jack and his wife as their
faces appeared at their window,
and the travelling spinsters
would beam and wave like mad,
Geoff Thomas was driving the
bus the morning it happened.
Afterwards, when his head
cleared, he said that he’d
thought that he’d simultaneously
done all his big-ends, his differ-
ential and suffered a four-wheel
blowout. It was just after he
had stopped honking and
changed gear.
Jack and the bus-driver and
the early townsfolk went
around to the shed. The door
was wide open and the glass had
gone from the window. The
walls, glistening here and there
with a diamond of embedded
glass, had a fairly even coating
of froth. One bottle of beer
remained. It was still intact
three days later.
By common consent the bus-
men now changed gear at
Luigi’s, and there was no honk-
ing of horns. Neighbors seemed
to favor walking on tiptoe
when passing the Pacific, and
lights seemed to be going on and
off all night in the block of flats
as folk kept getting up to make
a pot of tea. They said it must
have felt the same living in Eng-
land near an unexploded bomb,
Mrs. Murphy lasted out till
the end of the week. Then,
though it hurt her, she de-
manded that Jack get rid of the
thing.
The word seemed to get
around town, and when Jack
emerged from the side entrance
wearing leather mitts and a pale
look there must have been forty
people there.
“He’s opened the door!” —
voices dry with excitement.
“He’s a long time!” —forty
people, as quiet as a church.
“Here he comes! He’s got it!”
However, it would be unwise to
cheer.
Jack walked into view with
the bottle at arm’s length with
one mitt up shielding his face.
The mob gradually closed in,
became braver, and it wasn’t so
long before a motion was put
and carried that the bottle
should be opened. Several
suitable implements appeared
like magic.
Very gingerly Jack began to
ease up the seal. And then it
went. Mrs. Murphy’s tea-
towels on the line blew out hori-
zontal. The beer, in a solid
geyser of foam, shot straight for
the heavens, up the side of the
Pacific, high as the roof, leaving
Jack with an empty bottle in his
hand. The mob went their way.
Jack sat down later, drew out
a sheet of paper and licked a
pencil.
“Dear Uncle Clem,
I tried your recipe and I can
see what you mean about it
making life worth living. I
didn’t manage to save much of
it, but a little bit landed in
Kay’s window-box—the gerani-
ums in it have turned purple
and grown six inches. There is
still a little pool of it on the
window-sill and I’ll gather it up
with an eye-dropper and save it
for special occasions, like the
next time I get a letter from
you.
Yours ever,
Jack.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Futile Fetters
With the passing of building price-
controls yet another of the tentacles of
the bureaucratic octopus is struck off;
gradually, very gradually, the N. S.
Wales Government is learning that force
and restriction achieve nothing useful.
The pity is that the Government insists
upon learning the hard way, and ignoring
the thousands of voices that could have
enlightened it. Had it listened to good
advice the Government could have
benefited to the tune of several millions
of pounds over the last few years,- quite
apart from the general, benefit to trade
and commerce of unrestricted operations.
Opponents of controls on property sales
and building for years maintained that
the Government was losing huge sums
annually in uncollected stamp-duty be-
cause of the operation of controls and
the blackmarket which they nurtured.
The Government refused to listen. “What
blackmarket? Produce evidence of a
blackmarket in real estate and we’ll take
action!”
Now that the first figures are available
it is possible to compare stamp-duty,
receipts between the months of controlled
and uncontrolled operation. The experts
are amply borne out. Here are the re-
ceipts by the Sydney Stamps Office in
respect to agreements and contracts for
sale of real estate and businesses for the
months of September, 1948 (controlled):
£67,888 ; August, 1949 (last month of
control), £71,361; and September, 1949
(first month of free operation), £139,619.
An increase of stamp-duty collected in the
first month after removal of controls of
£71,731-more than 100 per cent. An
increase amounting to more than the total
receipts of August, 1949.
At that rate the loss for a year exceeds
£850,000. Since the real-estate market
has operated at pressure for the last
three and a half years, it becomes obvious
that the N. S. Wales Government finances
alone have suffered to the extent of about
£3,000,000.
What of the loss of income sustained
by those engaged and employed in the
vast field of real estate and business turn-
over —private individuals, trustee com-
panies and Government departments?
There is no method by-,, which that loss
can assessed, but it is certain that it
is considerable. Sufficient anyhow to have
justified the abolition of land-sales
control years ago. Add to those losses
the knowp costs of administering these
futile controls. v
In a progressive community business
will go on in spite of artificially created
impediments. Economics —not politics—■
dictates the flow of business. Man’s needs
come before the whims of politicians.
The post-war period has taught us
that, if nothing else. The Govern-
ment must admit the inexorableness
of this flow —guide -it and direct it if it
must to secure the maximum benefit to
society—but dam it and attempt to stop
it, never.
Any interference which cuts across the
age-old law of supply and demand can
only result in chaos, confusion and a
great loss —a loss involving morals as well
as money and which affects every member
of the community.— Cave (N.S.W.).
Road and Rail
“Transporticus” makes a good case for
railways (B. 5/10/’49), but in his assault
on road transport he seems to suggest
that anyone who uses it is a bad Aus-
tralian Railways may have no equal for
the bulk of our transport, but they are
unsatisfactory and uneconomic for perish-
ables, except where a whole train carries
such goods on a regular schedule or as a
“special,” e.g., stock and fruit trains.
For short hauls, particularly of small con-
signments, or fragile or urgent goods,
road transport puts it all over rail. Loss
by delay, damage and pilfering is usually
higher on railways, because of the extra
handling, and at the present time is
beyond all reason. Further, many parts
of Australia are a long way from a rail-
way.
Besides their inherent disadvantages,
the railways are, in this country, far
from efficient. They are short of rolling-
stock, and a good deal of what they have
is due for the scrapheap. Passenger-trains
are slow, dirty and unreliable, and more
and more people are willing to pay more
and travel by road or air. To bring the
railways up to proper standard will
require, under the best conditions, many
years. At our present rate of industrial
output, they will steadily slip further back.
But, in face of all this, the authorities set
themselves steadily against road haulage,
thus depriving us of any really up-to-date
transport service at all.
The charge is often levelled against
road transport that it is unfair competi-
tion, but the road operators have many
handicaps. They must find their own
capital, whereas the capital debt of the
railways is guaranteed, and has been
largely taken over by the taxpayers. They
pay import dues on vehicles, fuel and
oils, heavy income tax (from which the
railways are exempt) and a number of
special taxes as well, from which, in most
cases, they get very little in return.
Further, they must make a profit or close
down, whereas few men living can re-
member anything but losses from the
railways. As if all that weren’t enough,
their schedules may be altered without
notice by some bureaucrat engaged in
“protecting the railways.”
A solution to the problem is not easy.
We must have both forms of transport,
and, if they are to be used to advantage,
the roads must inevitably skim the cream
of the carrying business. It would be
better to recognise this, and pay the rail-
ways a definite subsidy by way of com-
“You shouldn't get here so ridiculously early—then We wouldn't
have to squeeze past you."
pensation, than to continue the grossly
unfair system of penalties on road-users.
The railways must be modernised, and
the initiative for this must come from us,
the public. We must jar our legislators
out of their two obsessions, “protecting
the railways,” and the idea that a public
service is run primarily for the benefit
of its employees. At the same time we
must overcome the two most serious
weaknesses in our present road transport
—bad roads (all special vehicle taxes, in-
cluding petrol tax, should be spent on the
roads) and dependence on imported
vehicles and fuel.
However hard and efficiently we work,
we can advance to prosperity and better
living standards only on a modern and
efficient transport system.— Magnoon
(Q-).
In fairness to the N. S. Wales Railway
administration I think that statement to
the effect that they have been unable to
carry wheat efficiently for years (B.
21/9/’49) would read better if the word
“efficiently” were left out. They can’t
carry the harvest and they’re the first
people to admit it, but there does not
appear to be much wrong with their
methods of shifting what they do shift.
It’s all part of the general deterioration
of services of this nature. Wheat is a
commodity best handled by rail and one
which, being of low intrinsic value and
produced far from the ports, must be
carried at a low rate. I doubt whether
that rate goes anywhere near meeting the
cost of haulage. Wheat lines never have
paid and were never expected to pay, in
recognition of which Governments have
subsidised them to the tune of some
£BOO,OOO a year, a figure far below their
annual loss. To build up their capacity
from one poorly-loaded train a week to
three or four a day would entail keeping
in reserve some thousands of trucks and
their locomotive power, for use over a
very short peak period.
That, if it could be done, would be
effective in shifting the harvest, but it’s
the very antithesis of efficiency from the
transport angle. Unfortunately it s that
angle which predominates today, so that
you find State Premiers holding the extra-
ordinary view that it’s far better to have
stock die in their millions or wheat rot
by the thousands of tons rather than in-
crease the inevitable loss on their trans-
port systems. You find railway commis-
sioners concentrating, wherever possible,
on the traffic which brings most profit to
their railway regardless of the effect on
the State,, and you can’t blame them.
The solution —to organise transport
solely to suit the needs of industry, be it
wheat, wool, beef or anything else, with-
out too much regard for cost —would be
simple. But it would also be highly un-
popular.—Transporticus (Singapore).
Pise and Mudbrick
Although I wouldn’t care to write a
testimonial to the factual accuracy of the
par. (B. 5/10/’49) about W. A. Watts,
introducer of the Finnemore travelling
builder—the inventor was not a Dutch
missionary, but a farmer of English ex-
traction residing in the Orange Free State
whose parson son deputises for him in
business matters, and none of his machines
have been sold to Kenya, though the
Southern Rhodesian Government has
bought some —I agree as to the value of
the machine to the Australian farmer.
Having tried the thing out on a small
job of construction after a long experi-
ence of building earth walls by the tradi-
tional ramming-and-shutter method, I
should say it-would be a boon to the man
on the land who wants to build himself
a dairy, a house or a silo. If I, with no
mechanical skill whatever, can learn to
work it in a few minutes, it shouldn’t
present any difficulties to the average
farmer. All the material —except in some
localities the timber —can be found in the
home paddock, so it seems to be the
answer to housing difficulties in the
country, which has become so dependent
on the distant city that it even has to get
its fences from a factory.
When Hume and Hovell first looked
down on the vast plains stretching from
the Victorian coastline, one of them
noted in his journal that Victorian
settlers would certainly build their farms
of pise or mudbrick, since the earth was
perfect for the purpose. Those explorers
would be amazed today if they saw
armies of expensive trucks speeding along
costly bituminised highways loaded with
sheets of fibro-plaster, galvanised-iron,
pine from Norway, concrete fence-posts,
and even prefabricated houses from
Sussex.
From the aesthetic viewpoint, not to
mention comfort and suitability for our
climate, anything that helps the farmer to
get back to tradition is to be welcomed,
and the farms the old peasant builders of
England erected from materials around
them certainly looked more pleasing than
a suburban villa —which looks cheap but
isn’t —dumped in the middle of the
Mallee.— Bumpkin (Vic.).
Training Civil Air-crews
Reputable airline companies don’t
neglect safety training of crews (B.
3/8/’49). They are not congenital idiots
—they make more profit by not having
accidents. Insurance may pay for the
capital loss of an aircraft, but it does not
cover income lost while a ‘pranged”
machine is awaiting replacement, nor does
it compensate for lost public confidence.
A pilot must pass a stringent test,
theoretical, practical and medical, before
the Department of Civil Aviation will
issue him with an airline pilot’s licence.
When and if he obtains employment with
a company —Government or private—he
flies as first-officer for hundreds of hours
before attaining his captaincy. During
that time he is under the eye, and a
critical eye it is, of an experienced
captain. Also, at the company’s expense,
he receives lectures and practice covering
all phases of emergency which may occur.
Captains are not neglected either—they
also must undergo regular tests, including
tests on handling the loss of a motor.
Not even the senior route-captains are
exempt from these tests. Even in this
“Golden Age” civil aviation is one of the
few industries which cannot afford to
employ incompetent labor.
With regard to the R.A.A.F., who
makes up the bulk of the present
flight crews? Who are those on
the waiting-list for employment? Ex-
R.A.A.F. types, of course. The majority
of civil air-crews have their comprehen-
sive civil training plus training received
in the R.A.A.F. So what happens to
“W.W.’s” implication that the R.A.A.F.
crews were more efficient? — A. U. Piesse
(Q-).
Flying is a good deal safer than driv-
ing. Most modern transport planes are
so constructed that a belly-landing is
safe, the only danger being that an odd
passenger may have his neck broken by
rapid deceleration. That can be avoided
if they sit with their heads pressed against
the seat in front.
During war maintenance must, at times,
be a bit skimpy, but in peace, with estab-
lished facilities for complete overhauls
and set runs where there is no need to
beat an engine to death, there is little
• excuse for engine failure. Even so, with
two or more engines there is little reason
for them to prang in country other than
that suitable for landing on their bellies.
Structural failure and failure of controls
are no longer main causes of accidents,
as they were in the early days of flying,
metal fatigue being detectable by X-ray
in its early stages.
The main cause of fatal accidents
is generally the pilot not “putting her
down” straight away. He tries to make
the next, ’drome. It should be the next
patch of open country.
War-time pilots will remember during
their training days on “Tigers” how the
instructor kept them on their toes look-
ing for possible forced-landing fields
until it became second nature. Many a
sprog can thank that training for what he
believed was split-second thinking on his
part.
The possibility of engine failure is
always present and always will be. It is
therefore most necessary that at all times
air-crews should be fully conversant with
all emergency procedure, and that they
should practise it until it becomes auto-
matic for them to do the right thing under
the stress of a crash or impending crash.
—Lansdowne-Wynde (N.S.W.).
War-service Homes
It’s bad enough trying to build a home
on your own land through the War
Service Homes people, but if you want to
buy an existing building the situation is
almost hopeless.
Looking for a place, I picked out from
the ads. several reasonably-priced dwel-
lings with vacant possession, got the
necessary form from War Service Homes,
and headed for the agents. I received all
courtesy from those much - maligned
agents, and good deal of information
which damped my ardor. Their answers
were pretty much the same: “Where can
I find a client who’ll wait 60 or 70 days
for a settlement? It’d be all right if they
knew they would get paid after that time,
but they can’t bank on any more than a
decision, possibly a negative one.” That
point of view is fair enough. Spot cash
is generally available for the too few
houses which are unoccupied.
The War Service Homes people are de-
feating their own ends with their dallying.
Some of the houses may be old, some
prices may be unreasonable, but any
architect or assessor can decide that on
an hour’s inspection. He can report to
the board in another hour, allow a day
for the check on title and survey, 10
minutes for signing the contract with the
applicant, and a few seconds to sign a
cheque if all is in order. P. O Rell
(Vic.).
Parking
The parking position in Sydney is
simply a rake-off for the authorities.
Special parking police have been engaged
for the sole purpose of booking motorists
and thereby increasing Government
revenue. The business-car owner is taxe
as an ordinary taxpayer, then he pays high
sales-tax on the purchase of his car and
accessories, petrol, oil, insurances,
licences, etc.; in return for all that he
gets no consideration whatever. the
authorities offer no parking facilities or
suggestions. Sydney Domain, large
enough to park over a thousand cars, is
only a stone’s throw from the heart of the
city. It could be used until the autnon-
ties provide some permanent relief for
harassed business - car owner, ux
(N.S.W.).


TALKIES
"The Passionate Friends."
The acting of the three principals—
Claude Rains, Trevor Howard and Ann
Todd —and David Lean’s remarkably
sensitive direction make this Cineguild
production (Sydney Esquire) a love-story
of considerable charm.
Rains, as the wealthy banker whom
Ann Todd marries for comfort and
security instead of marrying Howard for
love, dominates the film with his always-
excellent acting. It is remarkable how he
can run through the various emotions and
moods of fear, hate, love, weariness,
power without the slightest resource to
any of the common histrionics —possibly
only Ralph Richardson can do the same
thing with more subtlety, and even there
Rains has an advantage in his extra-
ordinary voice.
The reunions and farewells of Howard
and Miss Todd, With Rains watching and
probing for, and forcing, the truth, are
beautifully and economically handled by
both the players and director, and it is
amazing how much suspense they manage
to impart to what is mainly a quiet, in-
telligently conceived production.
"Wake of the Red Witch."
Under the right direction John Wayne
—a harder, tougher edition of Gary
Cooper—is a very satisfactory actor in
outdoor action stuff, as he has proven in
such films as “The Long Voyage Home,”
“Stagecoach,” “Red River” and others.
On less fortunate occasions his histrionic
talents seem to consist mainly of wrink-
ling his brows in troubled meditation
before smashing up the landscape in all
directions.
That limited ability seems to be about
all that is required in “Wake of the
Red Witch” (Sydney State), a Republic
film in which Mr. Wayne burns up half
the Pacific Ocean in a career of barratry,
revenge, plain derring-do and physical
violence. From a rather tangled narrative
it appears that a certain Captain Ralls
(Wayne) is given command of the Red
Witch by its owner, Sidneye (Luther
Adler), in return for fishing up a chest
of pearls which even an Indian maharajah
wouldn’t scoff at Ralls more or less
wrests the pearls from the tentacles of an
octopus the size of an elephant and then
makes a return journey to the deep to
crown the beastie. Unfortunately, Sidneye
also gets the girl Ralls wants —and who
wants Ralls —and heaps so many luxuries
on her that the lady pines away to her
death, a mishap which sends the Cap’n
hell-bent on vengeance.
Still skipper of the Red Witch, Ralls
scuttles her with a cargo of bullion in-
tending to return and salvage the boodle
for himself and thus take the owner down
a peg or two. Mr. Sidneye puts his oar
in again hereabouts and the pair of them
indulge in some pleasant cat-and-mouse
business, each preferring to keep the other
alive for slow roasting and both
apparently enjoying themselves and
admiring each other’s tactics immensely.
In fact, it would seem that the greatest
tragedy of Mr. Sidneye’s life is the
eventual loss of his adversary when the
Cap’n, together with the Red Witch,
plunges over a submarine shelf into some
bottomless depths of the ocean.
Gail Russell plays the young lady whose
death sets Cap’n Ralls on the loose, and
Henry Daniell has his moments, and, as
a supplementary % love interest, Adele
Mara and Gig Young go for each other
as tenaciously as the plastic octopus goes
for the Cap’n.
"Rope of Sand."
An American tough-guy (Burt Lan-
caster) had been acting as guide to game-
hunters near a fenced-off diamond-field
in South Africa. The sportsman he was
guiding popped off to seek diamonds,
found a handful under the sand, and
collapsed. Mr. Lancaster buried the find
and departed, carrying and dragging the
sportsman. When they were found by
the diamond company’s patrols, the
sportsman babbled about his find and
died of exhaustion. Then the company’s
commandant (Paul Henreid) flogged Mr.
Lancaster, but without effect.
Two years later Mr. Lancaster re-
turned. The managing-director of the
diamond company (Claude Rains) im-
ported a yflung dancer (Corinne Calvet)
to corrupt Mr. Lancaster and worm out
of him the hiding-place of the diamonds.
Much of the film shows Mr. Lancaster
being corrupted by Miss Calvet and
menaced and flogged (suspended head-
down) by Mr. Henreid. The corrupting
is a little underdone, but the only thing
underdone about the flogging is Mr.
Lancaster’s poor back ; it must have been
very raw. Besides being as sultry as a
cucumber, Miss Calvet is under the dis-
advantage pf really falling in love with
Mr. Lancaster, so that when she gets
the secret, from him she betrays it only
to stop him being flogged any more by
Mr. Henreid ; but then it turns out that
Mr. Lancaster is a wake-up to her, and
has given her the wrong secret . . .
In fact, the only new things in this
Paramount (Sydney Prince Edward) film
are the diamond-mine setting, two night-
club entertainers singing some South
African music to a guitar, and Miss
Calvet. There was a scene early in the
piece, where Miss Calvet was threatening
to compromise Mr. Rains, which showed
that she might be charming in a drawing-
room comedy explaining how she hap-
pened to be found in her nightdress re-
moving a speck from the eye of her best
friend’s husband at four o’clock in the
morning ; but such as there may be of
this sweetness was well and truly wasted
upon Mr. Lancaster’s and Mr. Henreid’s
desert air. Peter Lorre was pleasant
enough as Peter Lorre, and Sam Jaffe
did well as a drunken doctor.
"Sleeping Car to Trieste."
If the film-makers are to be believed
the major part of later European history
has been made in trains running from
Paris to any points east —the mysterious
Levant preferred. It is never made quite
clear what empires or crowned heads are
at stake in this overcrowded Two Cities
release, but there are so many
goings-on in the train between Paris and
Trieste that it’s a wonder the axles don’t
run hot long before the express reaches its
destination.
A diary stolen from an embassy in
Paris by Albert Lieven for Jean Kent
starts the train rolling; Mr. Lieven’s
assistant double-crosses him and gets off
with the diary and plants it in a washroom
on the train. After that the various com-
partments seem to be occupied, vacated
and reoccupied with amazing rapidity by
Mr. Lieven, Miss Kent, double-
crosser, a detective from the Surete, an-
other young lady on a pleasure trip with
a married lawyer, a London stockbroker
who wants to play poker, an American*
army sergeant with a whisky-flask and
an interest in anything in skirts, and a sen-
tentious old lecturer on foreign affairs. In
fact, it seems that as the train, the plot
and the people all gather pace, the engine-
driver, fireman and guard are the only
three who remain where they should be.
Even when the journey is over and the
corpses are laid out it is not quite clear
whether crowned heads wilier oil or not;
in fact, with the exception of sudden
deaths, the only finality reached anywhere
is in the mind of the young lady on the
scoot with the lawyer—she, at least, with
desperadoes, dead bodies and policemen
infesting the love-nest, has decided that
such affairs aren’t worth the price of a
ticket.
The American army sergeant, inciden-
tally, is played by Bonar Colleano, grand-
son of the founder of the family troupe
of acrobats and dancers which started
off in Australia at the beginning of this
century and went on to establish itself
in America, England and Europe. In this
film he looks like a fair cut of an actor,
and, according to reports, is doing all
right in the London production of Ten-
nessee Williams’s “A Street-car Named
Desire.”
"Mr. Belvedere Goes to
College."
Clifton Webb, who established himself
in the film “Laura” when he played a
polished, supercilious Columnist and
murderer, passed from that to the highly
amusing “Sitting Pretty,” in which he
figured as baby-sitter who knew the
answers to everything from Yoga to
writing best-selling novels. In his second
appearance as Belvedere (20th Century
Fox ; Sydney Regent) he goes to college
to complete, in one year, a four-year
course in order to qualify for a prize
for his best-seller.
Belvedere, of course, can speak 14
languages and, in his slightly disdainful
and superior manner, outdo anyone else
at anything, including cooking, music,
dancing, pole-vaulting and what not. He
spills his wit and wisdom like drops of
lemon-juice and, of course, finally
graduates with honors. The character is
amusing in the devastation it wreaks on
less superior beings, but it is doubtful
if the devastation will continue to be
amusing if it is extended into a series of
films. Even in the current offering
Belvedere can only fill about half of it; the
rest is taken up with a Shirley Temple-
Tom Drake romance which should have
been trodden on before it started.
"Corridor of Mirrors."
A lot of good material and some excel-
lent work in'the way of photography and
direction have gone into this Apollo film
(Sydney Tatler), but the total effect is
rather lost in the complicated fantasy
about a wealthy artist obsessed by a 400-
year-old portrait of a girl, and convinced
that he is the reincarnation of her lover
and equally convinced that the reincarna-
tion of the girl is somewhere to be found.
The artist is also obsessed with the
Renaissance period, and has his home
elaborately decorated in that style, plus a
corridor of mirrors behind which are a
selection of dummies in various period
costumes. When he eventually finds the
reincarnation of the girl in the portrait
he hypnotises her (or something) into this
peculiar set-up and delights in watching
her change into the assorted costumes in
the mirrored corridors. The girl, however,
discovers that she has had predecessors
in the funny business, and lights out for
an earlier and more practical boy-friend.
In the subsequent proceedings, which
include a spectacular full-stage Venetian
carnival in period style, the plot of the
piece'goes into a mor& tortuous tangle
than a dry gut fishing-line on a windy day
—the artist is hanged for murdering an-
other of his mistresses, his housekeeper
goes mad and threatens blackmail or
something and the whole business finishes
up in Madame Tussaud’s waxworks,
where, by this time, one feels they should
have all been consigned in the first place.
Reviewed Briefly.
• “City Across the River” (Universal-
International) : A well-made film about a
gang of tough youngsters in Brooklyn,
one of whom finishes up on a murder
charge. The film doesn’t preach very
much, but it makes its point about
environment and crinje much more effec-
tively than the more pretentious “Knock
on Any Door.”
* * * *
“House of Strangers” (20th Century
Fox): F.a.q. entertainment with Ed. G,
Robinson as an Italian (in America) done
out of his hard-won fortune by his sons,
and with Richard Conte, as another
brother and a lawyer, coming out of a
jail-stretch intent on wreaking revenge
on the rest of them.
* ♦ ♦ *
“Enchantment” (Samuel Goldwyn;
Sydney Century): David Niven, hiding
behind a fuzz of white whiskers, is the
old general who remembers (and acts)
his broken romance with Teresa Wright
and points the lesson for two young
lovers (Farley Granger and Evelyn Keyes)
who are wondering whether or not to
marry while the 1939-45 business is still
on. Sugar and no spice.
* * * ♦
“The Noose Hangs High” (Eagle-Lion):
Clowning from Abbott and Costello in
considerable strife as a couple of window-
cleaners who get hold of 50,000 dollars
belonging to a gangster. Leon Errol and
Joseph Calleia also present.
*** • ♦
“Caught” (M.-G.-M.; Sydney St.
James): Barbara Bel Geddes is the damsel
who’s caught in this opus—the prawn that
she nibbles at is a few million dollars and
the hook that gets her is the owner of
them, Robert Ryan, a half-mad mil-
lionaire who believes every woman is after
his coin and so finally marries Miss Bel
Geddes just to teach her what happens to
little girls who marry millionaires for
money. He teaches her so thoroughly and
savagely that she decides anyone or any-
thing would be better than a millionaire,
and clears out to work as a receptionist
fos Dr. James Mason, who struggles for
a crust among the non-millionaires and
who, of course, falls for his receptionist
and doesn’t know she already has a
husband who is a half-mad millionaire to
boot. It is all worked out according to
the conventional formula. Miss Bel
Geddes’s acting ability is less than in-
considerable and James Mason, who
established himself in British films mainly
by glowering menacingly at everyone,
doesn’t even glower in this one. Ryan’s
arresting features and forceful, intelligent
acting provide the best moments in the
film.
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 43
Across.
I—Which negatives are in the shelves
for anything? (8)
4 Get off what is often borrowed
by matchless smokers. (6)
9 Denials of the record 50 people
who train their guns on a target.
11 Seasick fellows in a lake? (5)
12—N.S.W. town takes the medicine-
man to the drinking-saloon. (9)
Diary upset Bradman with one
Italian playwright. (7)
14 One hundred and one cuts nuts.
(7)
The epoch of red-wine between
North American lakes. (7)
18 In a little taste of the liquid I
had the spiritless. (7)
21—Commotion of a share of the
limited food worship. (9)
24 One doctor is the finish of a
Welsh boy. (5)
25 Deal out a catalogue equitably
for a non-religious fellow. (11)
27 ~fj nc b the Spanish money in U.S.
(6) •
28—These birds box before their
quarrels. (8)
(CRYPTIC type.)
Down.
1 — King Victor is ogling the girls?
(7)
2 Sam rebels (anagram). (9)
3 Japanese sash. (3)
5 Hangs about lost ire this way. (7)
6 The general manager swallows the
grassland glitter. (5)
7 It is about the rational invalid
infusions. (7)
8 — Aspersion heads off six lovely
Uruguayan rebels. (4)
9 Noise to leave the marauder of
the outback. (5)
10 —It’s heavenly under the fruit-tree.
(7)
14 — I participate in a religious song
and I finish off the wine. (7)
15— Language for neat prose. (9)
16 — Heavenly instrument upset and
managed a Melbourne suburb.
(7)
17 — Fish with an unaccompanied
seaman. (7)
19 — Fast-flying dean of satirists? (5)
20— Debate thrown by athletes to the
south. (7)
22 Eye a small composition with a
muscular twitch. (5)
23 — Terrible fellow gets four to one.
(4) .
26 —Mare signifies this to Italians. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 42.


70/FPI2
mm
y
m
*--^*o.'
mai
SB
\W'
&
$
m
WILL ANYONE REMEMBER..
IT’S A
ROLLS
RAZOR
I WANT MOST!
Make his Christmas complete. Give him the gift
that will last a lifetime ... a Rolls Razor. A Rolls Razor
expresses your good wishes every day of the year and remains
a life-long reminder of your thoughtful selection.
XMAS GIFT SUGGESTIONS
h
mm
&sfis§
m
wS
IS
mil
Hni 1
wi
in!!:
h'!!!'
ill!
ini-
WS
00'
ft V
ROLLS RAZOR SHAVING BRUSH
Specially made in England of
selected, pure, matched Badger
hair. Smooth on your face.
Whips up a penetrating lather in
next to no time. In a beautiful
presentation case £3/-/-*
SOAP, STICK & STROP DRESSING
Three perfect shaving accessories
by Rolls Razor. These are ideal
gifts in attractive plastic
containers.
Shaving Soap 10/6
Shaving Stick 8/3
Strop Dressing 2/6
MAGNIFYING SHAVING MIRRORS
London made with chrome frames
and bases. Available in two sizes.
Large size, 6" diameter, with
double sided normal and magni-
fying glass and ball-swivel joint
for easy adjustability, £2/5/-.
Small size, 4" diameter, £l/13/-.
m
m
i
FAMOUS ROLLS ONE BLADE SAFETY (illustrated above)
One perfect hollow-ground blade and a built-in automatic strop
and hone to maintain this perfect edge. Truly a gift that will
last for years £4/-/-
ROLLS RAZOR “VICEROY” ELECTRIC DRY SHAVER
A triumph of British workmanship! This latest Rolls product
comes in a handsome leatherette travelling case complete with
all fittings. 240 volt A.C £7/7/-
ROLLS “VICEROY” NON-ELECTRIC DRY SHAVER
With this ingenious hand-operated precision instrument you
may dry-shave anywhere at any time. No soap, water, brush,
blades or electricity required £6/10/-
*
c
v
O'
IF YOUR LOCAL DEALER CANNOT SUPPLY YOU, WRITE DIRECT TO US AND WE WILL ARRANGE TO
HAVE YOUR REQUIREMENTS FORWARDED POST FREE TO ANY ADDRESS WITHIN THE COMMONWEALTH.
ROLLS RAZOR
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. . LTD.
8 A CASTLEREAGH STREET. SYDNEY, PHONE: 8W2038
INTERSTATE REPRESENTATIVES:
QUEENSLAND: The Rolls Razor Co. of Aust. Pty. Ltd., 77 Queen Street, Brisbane, VICTORIA
and TASMANIA: Godfrey Phillips (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., Drewery Lane, Lonsdale Street, Melbourne.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Harris, Scarfe & Sandovers Ltd., Hay Street. Perth. SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
Cornell Ltd., Pirie Street, Adelaide.
