

-•Oh
an,
e ui
A PRODUCT OF THE
Rio
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3601
Wednesday, February 16, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the Genera] Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
r J''HROUGH the generosity of Viscount
Iveagh and his Co-Trustees, Swansea
possesses one of the most beautiful halls
in Great Britain: its fame is spreading
far and wide for here are hung the famous
Brangwyn Panels, These mural master-
pieces adorn the walls of the New Guild-
hall which is part of the Civic Centre
pictured here. The Panels, which sym-
bolise the unity of the British Empire,
have as their theme one great farpily
living in peace and harmony; they were
painted by a Welshman—Mr. Frank
Brangwyn, R.A.—probably one of the
best known artists of the twentieth
century.
On the South wall two panels feature
Australia and East Africa and five deal
with India, Burma and Siam. The East
wall symbolises North Africa and the
East Indies, while on the North wall are
seven panels emblematic of the West
Indies, West Africa and Canada.
A Scandinavian rover named “Sweyne’-
sea” was apparently the founder of the
first settlement at Swansea. Its con-
venient command of the Tawe Valley
commended it also to the Romans, and
Henry de Newburgh of Beaumont, first
Earl of Norwich, led an expedition into
Gower, a few miles west of Swansea, in
1099, and founded the castle. The exist-
ing castle, really a fortified palace, was
built towards the middle of the 14th
century by Bishop Gower on the site of
Henry de Beaumont’s demolished castle.
The conflicts between the Normans and
Welsh failed to prevent the town from
making steady progress and securing
charters and trading rights from Kings
and Lord Marchers; as early as the 12th
century it had become a port of some
consequence. Swansea shared in the
great sea exploits of Queen Elizabeth’s
reign and furnished ships for the defence
of the coast against the Spaniards.
IN SWANSEA'S GUILDHALL ARE ENSHRINED THE BRANGWYN PANELS


"storuWritiuy
_ o V? ot fiomr
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’ >
My Name
My Address
S.B. 249
AGE
The Red Page
IDRIESS ON DIAMONDS.
lon Idriess’s Stone of Destiny (Angus
and Robertson) is really three books in
one: a biography of Jules Joris, a dia-
mond expert of Sydney, who was born in
Antwerp and who did important things
with industrial diamonds for the Com-
monwealth in the recent war ; a disserta-
tion on diamonds generally ; and a history
of diamond-mining in Australia.
Idriess has been provided with so much
material by Jules Joris that the book
might well have been described as a col-
laboration. The biography itself is two
stories blended together, for it is the life
of a man and the life of a diamond
expert.
The human story is engagingly humor-
ous and, more than that, brings to life
in intimate detail the life of a Belgian
city. Idriess presents Joris as a boy
swimming in a forbidden canal and be-
ing arrested by ferocious gendarmes;
smearing a very ripe cheese on his father’s
diamond-cutting machinery; wheeling
one of his employers in a barrow over
cobbled streets to a celebration in honor
of the marine painter Remain Steppe and
Colliding at the finish with another
barrow wheeled by Jack Dor6, nephew
of the famous Gustave; and from all
that one gathers that Antwerp was as
pleasant a place to be. a boy in as any
Australian town and that, like other
European cities but not so much like
Australian, the arts and the crafts were
likely to meet each other, in mutual re-
spect, in wheel-barrows in the streets.
Romain Steppe, in fact, the morning after
the party, was to be observed sleeping
in his bed on the footpath outside his
house.
Joris’s father was a leading diamond-
cutter of Antwerp, and, by the device of
reporting the nightly instructions he gave
his sons, and by showing them at work
on the stones, Idriess gives a fascinating
account of the mysteries of the craft.
There are all sorts of facts about dia-
monds: how they are formed amidst the
fierce heat and tremendous pressure of
volcanoes; how fragments of diamond
have been found in meteorites; how
diamonds that have been exposed for
hours to bright sunlight and are then
placed in a dark room will throw off a
luminous glow, and how, in a scientist’s
vacuum tube, subjected to electric cur-
rent under high tension, the glow has
become a pale-green phosphorescent light
bright enough to read by. There are de-
scriptions of the various kinds of dia-
monds, including “bomb stones,” which
contain compressed gas that will explode
when heat or friction is applied. And,
explaining exactly what it means to grind
and polish a face, “thus removing any
trace of the doubleering, and the red spat
with it,” there are the notes on one of
the most delicate and difficult trades that
a man can master, culminating in a de-
scription of the cutting and polishing of
a huge diamond which was sold to the
Shah of Persia.
The book’s second section —the general
dissertation on diamonds —is, of course,
rewritten from the standard works on
the subject. Some of it may be familiar;
some not; but the stories of the Koh-i-
-noor, the Sancy diamond, the Regent,
which Napoleon pawned to equip his
armies for the battle of Marengo, and
of other such famous stones, will stand
a good deal of repeating. Idriess surveys
in this section the whole range of the
diamond industry and gives some details
of the great combine which controls the
marketing of 95 per cent, of the world’s
diamonds.
There are no Koh-i-noors in the story
of Australian diamonds. But there are
some impressive and perhaps surprising
statistics:
One factor that largely caused the rich
concentration of diamonds at Kirk’s Hill
and other like deposits was that big
boulders in the ancient bed had acted as
barriers across the stream when the river
was flowing. Skipper and his two sons
working their claim on Kirk’s Hill often
had phenomenal clean-ups One day
from two sugarbags full of such dirt father
and sons washed and sieved 2202 diamonds.
Though he records that diamonds have
been found in every State, including
Tasmania, and lists some 60 diamond-
bearing areas in New South Wales,
Idriess is chiefly .concerned with the stones
and the story of the Copeton fields in
N.S.W. The stones, too small and tough
to have been much use when diamonds
were valued purely as jewels—Joris knew
them in Antwerp as “Gan-ni-faire,” which
means “Can’t be cut”—have come into
their own as industrial diamonds.
Telling their story, Idriess goes back
to the days when miners washing for
black tin-sand would let the pebbles they
did not recognise to be-diamonds roll
back into the creek with the worthless
gravels ; when babies were given “shinies”
and “sparklers” to play with; when,
knowing that diamonds were hard but
not knowing that they were also brittle,
miners “tested” the shinies by smashing
them with a hammer on an anvil; and
when, at last, the stones having been
recognised for what they were, they sold
at a shilling a carat.
In this section Idriess can write the
sort of yarns he likes ; how one man
washed an ant-heap and got three dia-
monds from it; how, when the Boer
War, cutting off South African supplies,
had sent up the value of Australian
stones and the diamond-mines were work-
ing around Inverell, Copeton and the
Howell, there were practised the arts of
“lousing” and “bandicooting” and how
one industrious bandicooter was caught
by the neck in the iron door that had
been placed at the entrance of a mine to
keep him and his kind shut out; and how
nobody has yet managed to find the
volcano from which the Copeton dia-
monds must have found their way into the
creeks: —
“Should a man find it,” the great
geologist Sir Edgeworth David once told
the miners, “he would find riches greater
than the dreams of King Midas.”
None of these three books that make
up Stone of Destiny is wholly satisfying.
Jules Joris’s biography is scrappily told,
lacking the full richness it might have
had if he could have told it himself, and
Idriess’s dialogue in the family scenes is
more informative than natural. The
general history of diamonds, a glittering
and beautiful theme, requires the prose
style of an Osbert Sitwell, And the story
of the Australian diamond-fields, if it is
not to be told by a fully-equipped
historian, could best be told by someone
who had worked there and who knows
the scenes and personalities and yarns as
well as Idriess has known the subject-
matter of some of his earlier books.
Yet, with these disadvantages, it is re-
markable how readable a book Idriess
has made ; how well he has combined the
three themes to give roughly the effect
of a continuous narrative and how
packed with interesting material is every
section. In a country where far too many
writers let their energy peter out after
two or three volumes, Idriess is some-
thing of a phenomenon. Stone of Destiny
is, he says in his introduction, his fortieth
book. It should sell as well as any of
the others.
A Farrer Biography.
William James Farrer was born on a
farm in Westmorland. At eight years he
went to Christ’s Hospital School, thence
to Cambridge, took Arts with the idea of
going on in law, gave law up in prefer-
ence for medicine, discovered a weak
lung and sailed for Australia in search
of health.
In Australia he found health and
achieved fame. After some teaching,
knocking about, a bit of surveying, he
began wheat-breeding in search of a rust-
resistant wheat, failed to find it, but found
Federation wheat and its successors, and
died in 1906, at the best dimly aware that
he had opened the way for wheat to grow
where it had never grown before, and
probably never dreaming that within 20
years of his death his- name would be as
well-known in world agriculture as that
of (say) Pasteur in medicine. There are
memorials to Farrer—even unto the
naming of a new Australian Federal elec-
torate after him —but of Farrer the man
little is known.
Given a Commonwealth Literary Fel-
lowship, Archer Russell in William James
Farrer (F. W. Cheshire Pty, Ltd,, London)
set out to write a biography of the man.
He fails because he seems to have gone
to his, task imbued with the notion that
Farrer was a sort of misunderstood hero
whose rectitude shone like a scarlet poppy
in a wheatfield, and when he wasn’t that
was a victim of the capitalist system,
only needing the patronage of a Supreme
Soviet Council to have grown wheat
madly in all directions and to have
abolished starvation from the dictionaries
of the world.
Even Farrer’s first published thesis, on
grass and sheep-farming, Mr. Russell in-
vites us to see
primarily as an exposure of a politico-
economic system unconscious of the forces
which make for full social and industrial
development.
That is on page 20. On page 76 Farrer
is discovered again:
Not even the suspicion of laissez-faire
can attach to Farrer’s literary or politico-
sociological tastes. It is true that his busy
practical life and never-ending correspon-
dence left him with no time for unlimited
reading; it is also true that his interests were
more humanitarian than political. But he
read and thought pretty widely nevertheless,
and his progressive scientific mind carried
him far ahead of his supposed conservative
outlook in politics. What he did was to
look forward toward his goal, and in this
he found even so-called liberalism in-
effectual; he pierced through its formalism
and discovered its conservatism. He was
carrying over results derived from biology
into sociology. Indeed, Farrer’s outlook
was flawless, granting the obvious —which
is, that every aspect of science concerns
the social and political, as well as the eco-'
nomic and cultural structure of the com-
munity. The dominant reactionary forces
had failed to realise this basic fact. But
Farrer had not; his politico-social con-
sciousness never lacked acumen on this
point.
This Leftist balderdash crops up again
and again—Mr. Russell even falls for
Soviet perennial wheat —and, coupled
with the biographer’s other determination
to paint a sort of romantic martyr-hero,
it destroys what might have been a valu-
able bit of work. For when dealing with
the actual wheat-breeding work, in his
selection of Farrer’s correspondence with
local and overseas breeders, and with
some judicious interpolations as to
Farrer’s physical appearance and char-
acter culled from people who knew the
man personally, Mr. Russell is on good
ground.
A biography of a scientist, particularly
a specialist in wheat-breeding, in which
work there is little of the spectacular, has
to be very well done if it is to avoid dull-
ness. Mr. Russell has not avoided it.
William James Farrer has some value as
a history of wheat-breeding in the 1890-
1906 period, and those familiar with later
progress in that field will find it useful for
reference, but it is more valuable as show-
ing the dreadful effect of Leftism on Aus-
tralian writing.
"May the Winds Blow."
Douglas V, Duff’s May The Winds
Blow (Hollis and Carter) is the autobio-
graphy of an R.N.V.R. lieutenant-
commander, a Falstaffian figure with a
flaming red beard and matching
vocabulary who was known along the
M.E. coast from Tobruk to points east
as the “Admiral” of the inshore schooner-
flotilla supplying British bases.
Duff as a boy began what, judged by
any period, was to be an adventurous
career, when he alone of the crew of a
British merchantman survived its tor-
pedoing in the Atlantic in the Kaiser’s
war. A Catholic, he promised his life to
the service of God if he were saved. He
spent two years in a monastery, left the
monastery on a Monday, and the next
Friday he landed in Dublin as an attested
recruit in the Black and Tans.
Up to this point the author’s fluency—
he’s written half a dozen books —carries
conviction, but an incident one black
night outside a farmhouse in Galway
engenders a doubt as to whether he had
not learnt more than seamanship from
the old salts of the Merchant Marine.
Duff was placed at the main gateway with
orders to halt and detain, dead or alive,
anyone attempting to escape from the
house: —-
A few minutes passed before I heard a
sudden shouting borne faintly down the
gale, followed by a rapid crunching on the
gravel and the noise of something rushing
towards me. I yelled a challenge. Still
the thing came on, until it seemed to be
right on top of me. Shouting a final warn-
ing, I lunged forward with my bayonet
and felt it shear through skin and flesh,
and my hands bathed with warm, sticky
blood. There was a shrill scream of agony
and the thing rushed past me, upsetting me
as it did so. As I scrambled to my feet
I could hear my victim sobbing out its
life at my feet. With a sick feeling at the
pit of my stomach, fearful that it might
have been a running woman, I endeavored
in the pitchy darkness and driving rain to
discover the identity of the body I had
bayoneted. To my intense relief it was—
a pig!
And a tall one, apparently, or running
on its hind-legs a bayonet-fighter
usually lunges at the level of a man's
chest.
Before you’ve decided between the
height of the pig and that of the story,
Duff is off to Jerusalem to join the Pales-
tine Gendarmerie. Here the book is at its
best —topical, informative and written
with an obviously expert knowledge of
the racial and religious fermentation in
Palestine which boiled over into the
current war. In those days (1926) a
British policeman in the East was a force
to be reckoned with:
The entire British garrison of Palestine
consisted of 36 British officers and 120
men of the Palestine Police, and for three
years we held the Holy City quiet by the
Grace of God, our skilled right hands and
the colossal impudence of this handful of
seasoned men.
That year Duff donned the silver-laced
black astrakhan kalpak of an officer and
assumed command of the Holy City’s
Urban Police Division —not a bad effort
for a youngster of 24.
Things were happening, and happen-
ing fast. Riots, murders, abductions, gun-
running, dope-smuggling and other
pleasant occupations of the score or so
different and violently opposed breeds in
Jerusalem are all recorded with a racy
style, and with realism imparted by the
author’s freely-critical admission of faults
in his own command —his men were not
all pukka sahibs.
Duff finished his term with British
prestige scraping rock-bottom, due to
administrative blundering oif a high plane,
and returned to England, to write a
couple of books and to join the Royal
Navy when Hitler broke loose. He was
naturally sent to the Mediterranean, as
a specialist on Admiral Cunninghams
staff.
His experiences there—recruiting in
Palestine ; running supplies to Tobruk in
anything almost that would float; in
charge of netting the Canal so that the
point of entry of bombs and mines could
be pinpointed—are history ; but history
enlivened by a realistic and humorous
outlook.
Frost's Brief Bolt.
Robert Frost’s A Masque of Reason
(Cape) is the mixture as before: two
fairly long poems and. a set of lyrics and
short satirical pieces distinguished by his
love of nature, his tough, shrewd humor
and the characteristic understatements of
a poet who can sum up life, fame and
eternity in the couplet;
May I in my brief bolt across the scene
Not be misunderstood in what I mean.
Among the nature poems there is
•nothing quite so magical as the “Stop-
ping by Woods on a Snowy Evening”
of long ago, but there are poems that
convey well enough the same mopd, the
picture of man alone on an earth at once
beautiful and sinister: “Were I in
Trouble,” for instance, in which , the
poet, on a mountainside at night, sees
the distant headlights of a car, and
thinks:
And I away in my opposite wood
Am touched by that unintimate light
And made feel less alone than I rightly should,
For traveller there could do me no good
Were I in trouble with night tonight.
It is not likely that Frost’s humor and
colloquial style will mislead anyone at
this date, when he is accepted as a minor
master both in America and England, as
to the high quality of his verse. His
apparent artlessness is necessary to con-
- vey his vision—his philosophy or his
“message”—which as he says of a moun-
tain stream, close to its source in the
rocks, is “too lofty and original to rage”
and which portrays man as courageous
and secure, whatever may be the dangers
he has to face:
Have I not walked without an upward look
Of caution under stars that very well
Might not have missed me when they shot and
fell?
It was a , risk I had to take —and took.
The longer poems, as in Frost’s earlier
books, are less effective. They consist
of two discussions in verse, “A Masque
of Reason” and “A Masque of Mercy,”
spoken by various Biblical personages,
including the Deity. In the first the dis-
cussion concerns the injuries inflicted on
Job ; in the second, the unexpected mercy
which prevents New York from being
destroyed when Jonah prophesies it will
be.
Drawings From "Punch"
Two books of drawings from “Punch”
are You and Me by Fougasse (Methuen)
and Saturday Slow by Emett (Faber):
both are delightfully funny and, in their
excellence, prove that “Punch” is as good
as ever it was ; or maybe better.
Fougasse is an old favorite; his draw-
ings, as before, are a kind of short-story
in pictures, and in their total they amount
to a good-tempered satire on post-war
Britain; exemplified in the drawing that
shows a queue about a mile long, at the
very end of which one woman is saying
to another “It’s all very well for you to
complain, but what about me? All I’m
queueing for is to come and complain
about what I was queueing for all this
morning! ”
Emett, a comparatively recent arrival,
is an acquired or acquirable taste—the
man who draws the fantastic railway-
trains. There’s something rather scratchy
and crowded about his work, irritating to
the eye, and his jokes are very often queer
rather than funny; but at the same time
he is something more than a good black-
and-white gag man: he has a wild ana
often demonic imagination that sets his
work in the category of serious as distinct
from humorous art.
Take away, for instance, the gag Ask
him if he’s on essential business” from his
picture of a ghost driving the ghost of an
ancient motor-car through the trunk of a
tree towards two demonic policemen, ana
you have not so much a “Punch” joke
about bureaucracy as the modem
equivalent of a Dor£ illustration to
Dante.


Aiitliuiiy Horderns’
in (^AAqaXxMw^
M
%* --1
K4«* ■
J
:
iWk- ' -
'
; 1
, ’if I
i
! ’
;
mm &;w
I
■
mtm m
..■I
IV «kI
--<■; * . 4
m tea
iggHtia
ill
''
i
CM. P|
iii
•
Top left.
For pacing the office or stalking a big
account, choose these NO-CAP DERBY
SHOES by Packard. In Tan or Black
Calf that takes the shape of your feet
the moment you put them on. 52/9 pair
Also in soft Black Glace Kid, 59/- pair
And in Tan with rubber soles, 52/9 pair
Top right.
Someone once said: “Nobody can give
you wiser advice than yourself.” So let
your judgment and not our advertising
recommend this smart PACKARD
OXFORD Shoe to you. It is available in
Tan or Black Calf in fittings C, D, E, F.
The sizes are 5 to 12. Price, 52/9 pair
Bottom,
Business men not only use their good
judgment in the office . . . you’ll find
them most particular when it comes to
shoes. Packard pampers their taste with
these HIGH-STYLE BROGUES in Tan
or Black Calf. Extra heavy soles, wide
welts, sewn heel seats, fittings C, D, E
and F. Sizes 5 to 12. Price, 63/3 pair
w
ANTHONY HORDERNS’


' /AR6& r
ill
V i
"Caterpillar” D 7 Diesel Tractors dozing material on to
a stockpile. From this stockpile trucks are loaded by
power shovels.
' •*•!
-
" Caterpillar” D 7 Diesel Tractor topping a stockpile.
m. 11 i
■
mm
- ;
Another “Caterpillar” Diesel Tractor unit with cable
controlled dozer filling in swamp. It is estimated that these
“Caterpillar ” units will handle 750,000 cubic yards to
fill in this area.
IH9
ur WENTY-FOUR "Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors are speeding the construction
or the £5,000,000 Kingsford Smith Airport at Mascot, New South Wales,
shifting 9,000,000 yards of material at the rate of 25,000 to 30,000* tons per week.
Kingsford Smith Airport will be the largest in the Southern Hemisphere, covering
an area of approximately 2,000 acres, with runways up to 10,000 feet long and 300
feet wide to accommodate the world’s largest air liners.
The diversion of the Cook’s River into Botany Bay, one mile south of its present
outlet, by cutting a channel 600 feet wide by 24 feet deep and lj miles long,
calls for the moving of 2,500,000 yards of earth. The balance of the 9,000,000
yards of material to be moved will be made up in raising the ’drome level by 9 feet
and filling in the existing river. No less than 6,000,000 yards will come from
the dredging of Botany Bay and 500,000 yards from the nearby sand dunes. The
bulk of this work will be done by "Caterpillar” Diesel D 6, D 7, and D 8 Track-
Type Tractors with cable-controlled Dozers, and No. 12 Diesel Motor Graders.
Operating in loose sand and on swampy ground under the most gruelling
conditions, the "Caterpillar” Diesel Tractors, with their rugged construction,
tremendous power and easy mobility, give the maximum of sustained traction
power, with the minimum of fuel consumption that makes "Caterpillar” a byword
for economy. Fitted with all-weather seals and filters that shut out the abrasive sand
and protect vital parts, replacements are reduced to the barest minimum.
To maintain the rate of excavation and increase output as the urgency of the job
demands, "Caterpillar” Diesel Traction and Earth-Moving Equipment help speed
still one more national project to a successful conclusion, economically and on timel
CATERPILLAR vmu
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS &
CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
STATE DISTRIBUTORS:
N.S.W. WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.. Unwin's Bridge Rd., St.
Peters, Sydney. Phone LA 3321.
Q'LD. WAUGH JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD., 102-124 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. Phone J 1456.
VIC. WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD., 521-523 Collins St., Melbourne.
Phone MU 8561.
SA THE S.A. TRACTOR CO., 231-233 Flinders St., Adelaide. Phone
Central 8170.
tfi. WIGMORES LTD., 613 Wellington St.. Perth. Phone B 2186.
HI HASTINGS DIESELS PTY. LTD., Stuart Highway, Alice Springs.
Phone 129.
lAS. WILLIAM ADAMS & CO. LTD., Derwent Park, Hobart,
Phone Glenorchy 6.


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3601
Wednesday, February 16, 1949
“A SOWER WENT FORTH TO SOW”
(it being election year).


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Map”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone, 8U597L
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings (opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
STATE OF THE NATION.
At the close of a “nation-wide broad-
cast” which echoed faithfully Mr.
Chifley’s address on the virtues of thrift,
Mr. Chifley’s new governor of Mr.
Chifley’s Commonwealth Bank produced
a significant peroration.
Dr. Coombs, having travelled along his
chief’s sound-tracks, though in slightly
pleasanter voice, uttered the conviction—
which, incidentally. Professor Copland had
just damned as illusory in the most down-
right. accents —that if the public would
only save its money and put it into Mr.
Chifley’s bank, and private business
entrepreneurs would only postpone any
capital expenditure “not immediately
essential” (Mr. Chifley and Dr. Coombs
to decide what that phrase means), then
the national economy would not only be
sustained, but the [postponed] works would
be carried out in conditions when resources
and labor were more readily available.
That period, according to these planning
twins’ “full-employment” policy and the
socialist “Labor” programme, will arrive
with the Greek kalends. Apart from the
sheer fallacy of it (as Prof. Copland
agrees), this injunction is political hum-
bug from start to finish,, for the Chifley
Government is out to collar all
“resources,” investment funds and labor
for its own grandiose and wasteful pur-
poses.
Dr. Coombs concluded:
Australia is a young country marching on
to a high destiny. For her development
she requires capital, and we can all con-
tribute to that capital from our savings.
If that is all the new governor of the
Commonwealth Bank can find to say to
a community in which the thrifty minority
have been steadily bilked of their savings,
cursed as profit-seekers, are taxed as
opponents of socialisation, and are
threatened with worse flayings to come if
only the Chifley Government can bluff
the electors again at this year’s general
elections, then all the doubts of his quali-
fications for the post have been quickly
justified.
If this exordium from Mr, Chifley’s
white-haired boy means anything it
must be that the note-printing presses
of the institution he has come to rule
(under Mr. Chifley, of course) do not
produce capital despite all “Labor” pre-
tences —Mr. Chifley would, for instance,
issue notes to pay for trading banks’
capital assets —and what the Government,
having already absorbed the great' mass
of the people’s savings, wants now is the
contribution of more “real money”—
that is, money which is earned by some-
body’s hard work. But Dr. Coombs does
not say so in so many words, and he
offers the public by. way of incentive
less than nothing at all.
Leaders of the Liberal and Country
parties would do the country a service
if they would only come out with an ex-
posure of this humbug from the mob
which is, in the name of financial plan-
ning, steadily running Australia into
inflation and bankruptcy. “Save for
better buying,” scream the posters that
make the external walls of the Common-
wealth Bank’s head-office look like bill-
boards, while the thoroughfares within
the building swarm with members of the
proletariat all bent on reaching an upper
floor to “get their cut” of time-payment
money at cheap prices. “Save money,”
indeed!
Speaking at a P.S.A. at Wesley Church,
Melbourne, a few hours before the air
was thrumming with Dr. Coombs’s
financial propaganda, Professor Copland,
veteran among all Government advisers,
and the founder of Australian price-
control, drew himself nearer into align-
ment with the stand of Professor Hytten
at the recent Hobart science congress. He
told his audience, in phrases directed
straight at the mutual-admiration group
at the Federal Treasury in Canberra, that:
There was no effective control of prices
even when the Commonwealth threw it
over to the States.
While saving was an important feature
in any anti-inflationary policy [meaning you
ought not to spend money you haven’t got],
it was not the basic solution of rising •
prices. It touched only the fringe of the
problem.
The real remedies demanded moral
courage and determination in political
leaders, and could not be popular because
everyone would be hurt one way or
another; and now the application of them
would probably be too late, anyway. They
would require:
(a) A substantial part of extra income
from increase in export prices to be put
into cold-storage against the day when
those prices fall;
(b) Increase in production in basic
industries; coal, of course, the principal
one;
(c) Maintenance of high taxation, espe-
cially income tax [and in Mr. Chifley’s
election year, too! ]
Prices have risen, said Professor Cop-
land, because money incomes and costs
have soared, the reflection of prices for ex-
ports now standing at three to four times
the pre-war level. And with watersiders
getting £lO to £l5 a week, the lead bonus
(on top of wages) at Broken Hill and
Mount Isa well over £ll a week, and the
unions demanding a 30s. or 355. increase
in the basic wage and a reduction of the
working week to 30 hours, that boost to
inflation given by high export prices is
already feeling an internal air-lift which
makes moonshine of Mr, Chifley’s
reiterated assurance that he has geared
Australian economy to resist any collapse
in the boom overseas.
Whether Mr. Chifley himself believes
this for one moment is to be doubted.
For one thing Mr. Dedman, his chief
lieutenant in the domestic planning field,
has been protesting that, because of con-
stitutional inhibitions, the Commonwealth
cannot increase production or check
any industrial disequilibrium. For an-
other, Mr. Chifley can hardly preserve
Australian economy from collapse if he
cannot control the inflation his Govern-
ment deliberately and recklessly set
going; and as for “Labor’s” political
pretence that prices got out of control
because the electors followed Liberal-
Country-party advice and voted “No”
at last year’s referendum. Professor
Copland gives the facts —right from the
horse’s mouth:
It is an illusion to imagine that it was
only in the last few months since the
States took over prices-control that the
evils of inflation and rising prices had been
unchecked.
Actually, in the first full quarter of State
control, the figures suggested that the rate
of increase had slackened a little from 10
per cent, to 8.8 per cent.
Really, the temporary behavior of
prices under the change of controls does
not greatly affect the argument. The
payment of higher and higher annual
subsidies, as the Chifley Government
found, will for the time being appear
to disguise for the consumer the rising
cost of living; but it checks nothing at
all of the real evil of inflation which is
the consequence of “Labor” politics and
economics and has been wantonly created.
Copland says there was no effec-
tive control of prices even before the
Commonwealth abandoned it. What he
means is, as the rapidly-rising costs of
annual subsidies was then betraying, that
the effort to control prices by payment
of subsidies demanded the levying of
more and more taxation, direct and in-
direct, on all consumers to provide those
subsidies.
But over and above that the British
Socialist Government publicly confessed
in an official White Paper 18 months
ago that price-control was quite ineffec-
tual as a counter to inflationary tenden-
cies. The only real cures are harder
work, frugal living, and more production
for each man-hour of employment. The
leader of any Government in the position
that the Chifley Government faces is a
humbug and a hypocrite if he does not
say the same in plain language and make
his exhortations mean something.
If, as Professor Copland fears, the
proper'(but unpalatable) remedies would
now be too late, apparently Mr. Chifley’s
inflation will run its course and every-
body will suffer in the process. If there
are any “Labor” supporters so fired with
enthusiasm for subscribing to Dr.
Coombs’s conception of Australia’s
march towards the “Golden Age” that
they are cutting out beer, betting and
“the lottery” and putting all their savings
into Mr. Chifley’s bank, then they should
be paraded on a floral float through the
main thoroughfares of their State capital.
Cardinal and Communists.
If the trial of Cardinal Mindszenty in
Budapest has served no other purpose,
it should at least provide the Australian
“Labor” Government with precedents
under which it can act against the Com-
munist party and its leaders without the
slightest fear of being logically attacked
by any consistent follower of Lenin and
Stalin.
The verdict and the sentence of life
imprisonment have raised a storm of
protest throughout the world. Govern-
ment after Government, including that
of Dr. Evatt, which insists on recognising
Hungary as a self-governing nation (which
it is not), has raised its voice in protest.
But the implications of what has hap-
pened have not yet been brought out
very clearly, perhaps because the world
is a little stunned at the pattern of events.
The charges were that Mindszenty
plotted against the Hungarian Republic
for the restoration of the Hapsburg
monarchy, a “treason” which he allegedly
hoped to help perpetrate at some indefi-
nite time when the “Third World War”
had place between “America” and
the U.S.S.R. He was also claimed to
have plotted with the Vatican to rob
Hungary of its jewelled crown, and was
accused of “large-scale blackmarketing
in foreign currency.”
The basic charges involved, prim-
arily, the awful—in Communist eyes—
felony of being in contact with the
representatives of a capitalist Power and
were aimed to prove to the Hun-
garian people that the foreign Power,
the United States, had malign intent to-
wards Hungary and the Soviet bloc, of
which Hungary is a servile appendage
ruled by a recent employee of the Soviet
Foreign Office. These were exactly the
same sort of indictments as were levelled
against the “Rights and Trotskyites” in
the Moscow trials in 1936, and were
reminiscent of those preferred against
the unfortunate Australia First men in
Australia in 1942.
Cardinal Mindszenty, after his arrest,
wrote a letter in which he advised his
friends to take no notice of anything
which he might say when charged before
the Court, of any admission, whether in
writing or given by word of mouth. It
was, therefore, somewhat astonishing to
find him in the dock, calm and collected,
apparently in good health and behaving
in a manner entirely at variance with
everything which had been expected by
those who knew him as a churchman
with the courage of his convictions and
no inhibitions about expressing them.
Because of his demeanor and attitude,
the trial ran its perfectly normal course
as trials under Communist “justice” go.
The procedure was one which would
have led on appeal to the quashing of
the verdict in any Court of Justice in a
British country, since most of the so-
called evidence had been extracted be-
hind bars, without any proper safeguards
to the accused, and the actions of the
accused were in line with those in the
Moscow trials of 1936.
In 1936 the defendants invariably
pleaded guilty to anything which the
prosecutors cared to allege against them,
and grovelled in the dock in an agony
of remorse at having attempted to destroy
the Russian Fatherland by such abomin-
able perfidies as disclosing the statistics
of the Ukrainian wheat harvest to a
British Red Cross worker, who was risk-
ing her life and spending her money in
saving the skeleton victims of the Ukraine
from death by starvation and who was
therefore obviously an Imperialist spy.
An examination of the Moscow trials
of 1936, as reported by the Australian
Communist party, shows that men who
had been giants in the Soviet only one
year before —men whose- names were
so sacred to Australian Communists that
to traduce them was to court physical
violence —behaved with the same calm-
ness as reported of the Cardinal and
with a frankness which was too much
for anybody to swallow except a modem
daily newspaper reporter of the type who
used in World War II to cut down a
couple of German armies in a morning
with the aid of Cossacks armed with
swords and annihilate Panzer divisions
like ninepins.
A sample of cross-examination will
suffice to show the atmosphere. It con-
cerns two of the accused, Kamenev,
whose situation in the Soviet regime
might be compared for long loyalty of
service to that of Mr. Scullin in the
Australian Labor party, and Zinoviev,
who had been for years a world figure
and president of the Comintern:
Vyshinsky (prosecutor): What can we
call the articles and statements you wrote
in 1933, in which you express loyalty to the
Communist party? Deception?
Accused Kamenev: Worse than decep-
tion.
Vyshinsky: Treachery?
Kamenev; Worse.
Vyshinsky: Worse than deception, worse
than treachery—find the word. Treason?
Kamenev: You have found the word.
Vyshinsky: Accused Zinoviev, do you
confirm this?
Zinoviev: Yes.
Vyshinsky : Treason, treachery and double-
dealing?
Zinoviev: Yes.
The final pleas of these Soviet “strong-
men”—men who had dominated working-
class opinion in many countries through
the Comintern in the two decades after
Lenin’s death —were no less startling.
One of the so-called “terrorist gang”
stood in the dock looking as normal as
Cardinal Mindszenty is reported to have
done at Budapest and remarked: “I
depart as a traitor to my party, as a
traitor who should be shot.” Kamenev,
former vice-president of the Council of
Commissars, remarked:
Thus we served Fascism, thus we organ-
ised counter-revolution against Socialism,
prepared, paved the way for the inter-
ventionists. Such was the path we took,
and such was the pit of contemptible
treachery and all that is loathsome into
which we have fallen.
And then there was Bukharin —Bukharin,
right-hand man of Lenin, ten million
copies of whose officially recognised
manifesto were printed in 50 languages
(several editions were issued by the Aus-
tralian Communist party):
I once more repeat that I admit I am
guilty of treason Jo the Socialist fatherland,
the most heinous of possible crimes, of the
organisation of kulak uprisings, of prepara-
tions for terrorist acts and of belonging to
underground, anti-Soviet organisation. I
further admit that I am guilty of organis-
ing a conspiracy for a palace coup ....
I was a leader, and not a cog, in counter-
revolutionary affairs 1 consider myself
responsible for a grave and monstrous
crime against the Socialist fatherland and
the whole international proletariat. I con-
sider myself responsible both politically and
legally for wrecking activities, although I
personally do not remember having given
directions for wrecking activities.
The similarity of the Budapest trial to
the Moscow trials will become apparent
to every observer, though Cardinal
Mindszenty, not having had the horrible
records and terrorist experiences of the
bloodthirsty villains who were legally
murdered by their colleagues of the
Kremlin, was necessarily less picturesque
in his “admissions” than his forerunners
in the dock.
He received a brutal sentence of
life imprisonment—a sentence equivalent
to a long-lived death, having regard to
the nature of Communist penitentiary
methods.
The head of the Hungarian Govern-
ment is Rakosi, a blood-steeped Hun-
garian terrorist who himself has been
sentenced to death in his time and escaped
the gallows by a hair-breadth. Australia
has a particular interest in him. He it
was, acting as general secretary of the
Comintern, who constituted and gave
official recognition to the Australian
Communist party in a telegram from
Berlin dated August 22, 1922, as the
result of which, according to its own
comment, the local Communist party
could “move forward with additional
prestige of being an integral part of the
Communist International, the strongest
international organisation of revolution-
ary workers the world has ever known.”
Moreover, it is clear that, in accepting
its charter from his hands, the Australian
Communist party specifically accepted a
pledge to carry out implicitly a policy of
treason and treachery against this coun-
try far more horrible and definite than
anything alleged, behind the dark sha-
dows Of the Iron Curtain, against Car-
dinal Mindszenty.
One of the 21 points which the Aus-
tralian Communist party accepted as a
condition precedent to affiliation with the
Comintern pledged its members specifi-
cally to become traitors to their own
country in the event of war with Soviet
Russia. They were pledged to carry on “a
systematic and vigorous propaganda in the
Army Communist nuclei to be formed
in every unit,” and it was added that
“most of this work will be illegal, but
to refuse to do it would be treason to
revolutionary duty and incompatible
with membership of the Third Inter-
national [Comintern].” They stood, and
stand, pledged to accept “iron military
discipline,” and they bound themselves
to “dispense not only with avowed
patriotism but with dishonest hypocritical
pacifism and work for the revolutionary
overthrow of capitalism.”
In their Party Training Manual they
declare that it is the objective of the
party to “break up and shatter State
bureaucratic and military machinery as a
preliminary condition of the workers’
revolution.”
Yet it is the party which has agreed
to this programme that professes to
be shocked at the “behavior” of Cardinal
Mindszenty.
On the basis of its own expressed view-
point it could not argue logically if the
Australian Government banished it and
jailed its leaders, after trial, for the rest
of their lives.
Mark Twain Understood.
When Tom Sawyer discovered that
Huckleberry Finn’s friend Jim had been
captured and immured in an old shed
in the belief that he was a runaway slave
for whom a reward was offered, the two
boys set about freeing Jim. As Huck saw
it, the simple and obvious thing to do
was go out some dark night and, with
the picks and spades which happened to
be handy, dig a hole under the bottom
logs of the shed and let Jim crawl
through it to freedom.
But that didn’t suit Tom Sawyer. Not
on your life. An imaginative and adven-
turous busybody, Tom wanted the thing
done in the most involved way and
with the introduction of all possible
obstacles and side-issues. Therefore
mysterious messages went to the mystified
Jim in his food, anonymous threatening
notes were pinned to the doors of the
captors, a sheet was stolen to tear into
strips to tie together to make a rope for
Jim to climb down, even though he was
on ground-level. Tom debated whether
or not to chain Jim to the bed-leg and
then either saw off the bed-leg or Jim’*


leg; he proposed to dope Jim and
smuggle him out as somebody else—in
short, any and every possible and impos-
sible way of rescuing Jim, and the more
difficult and time-wasting it was the
better, was put into action. Merely dig-
ging the man out, the simple and obvious
way of doing it, Tom refused to consider
for a moment because, according to the
type of books he read, nobody was ever
rescued like that.
Well, Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn
live on, though their creator is dust.
Tom entertained and amused us in our
youth and again in adulthood. But few
of us ever suspected that the little wretch
was going to grow and multiply and
plague us to madness in our everyday
life. In his multiplied form he runs our
civil services. What Government depart-
ment, State or Federal, ever does any-
thing the simple, obvious and direct way?
What civil servant, confronted with the
task of getting a captive out, would
dream of simply digging a hole under
the wall?
No. Everything must be cluttered up
with rules and forms and permits and
questionnaires. We are no longer per-
mitted to live simply. Nobody can arise
in the morning and go about his daily
tasks without, somewhere or other, run-
ning into one or more of this plague of
Tom Sawyers or their rules or regula-
tions. From deporting bewildered women
to buying peanuts there is no end to it.
It would take this entire page to list,
even in small type, the things we may not
do without permission which, ten years
ago, we were free to do as the impulse
moved us. In another ten years, if it
goes on, two pages won’t be enough.
Ten years ago, if a man wanted a home
he bought some land, made terms with a
builder, and got it built. Let him try
any such simple process today! Let
him try to grow and sell eggs or potatoes
or fish or fruit without consulting the
Tom Sawyers about it. Let him work
longer in his own factory or shop than
Tom Sawyer says he can and see what
will happen. Let him —but why go on?
Enterprise? Freedom? Progress? De-
velopment? Production? None of them
shall we have until we take two-thirds of
these parasitic, interfering, bossy Com-
monwealth civil servants, stuff their forms
and regulations down their necks and
heave them into the nearest brickworks,
coalmine or textile factory.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Chickens Coming Home.
Within the past fortnight two import-
ant Washington officials visiting Japan
have uttered striking criticism of Aus-
tralian policy.
Dr. Warren Thompson, special adviser
on population to the natural-resources
section of General MacArthur’s staff,
said Australia might expect to hold New
Guinea against Asian pressure for no
more than another 25 years, and that
he doubted whether the United States
would -be interested in defending Aus-
tralia- and New Zealand “in a war fought
over an issue of regional colonialism.”
This has been followed by a statement
attributed to Mr. Kenneth Royall, U.S.
Secretary to the Army, after a visit to
Tokyo, declaring in the event of another
world war the United States would have
to withdraw its forces from Japan and
that an early withdrawal was advocated
by some Washington military authorities.
This brought a denial from Washington
that any “immediate withdrawal” is con-
templated, but was accompanied by an-
other statement to the effect that the
U.S, Government is “seriously concerned
about Australia’s lack of defences,” and
opposed to further U.S. commitments un-
less Australia and New Zealand should
accept increased defence responsibilities
in the Pacific.
It is impossible to ignore these disquiet-
ing rumblings. The Communist conquest
of Central China and the collapse of
Chiang Kai-shek’s regime have radically
altered the Far Eastern outlook. No
denials of the reports from Washington
and Tokyo can hide the possibility
that the Americans may be obliged not
only to leave Japan to her own resources
against pressure from the Asian main-
land, but also to deploy their forces in
the Pacific in accordance with a strategy
which would contemplate, so far as essen-
tial American interests are concerned, the
loss of Australia also,
Parliament at Canberra, and the Aus-
tralian people, too, must now ask of the
Chifley Government a drastic revision of
its lazy policy of relying on “sup-
port of U.N.0.” to keep the peace, and
something Canberra calls “push-button”
armaments in case of war. Dr. Evatt’s
defence of his foreign policy, and par-
ticularly of his own highly dangerous in-
terference in Palestine, Indonesia and
the Soviet’s Berlin blockade, was notable
for his disingenuous omissions; -
. (1) He concealed the fact that the British
Government surrendered to U.N.O. its
responsibility for Palestine only when, just
as Mr. Bevin had got Jews and Arabs into
conference and thought he was making
progress towards a reconciliation, Mr.
Truman announced that he intended to
urge immediate admission into Palestine of
another 100,000 Jews. Mr. Bevin begged,
through the American Ambassador, that
the President should postpone any such
fatal intervention. Mr. Truman would not
be dissuaded.
(2) He concealed the fact that from 1945
onwards the Chifley Government had
prejudged the Indonesian issue by permit-
ting union-imposed sanctions against Dutch
shipping. The Government in which Dr.
Evatt is responsible for foreign policy
never has been neutral in the Indonesian
dispute, and its behavior is an offence
against that impartial and “judicial pro-
cedure” which Dr. Evatt declared to be
the principles on which his Government has
acted.
(3) His intervention in the Berlin dispute,
an abuse of his temporary position as
president of the U.N. General Assembly,
was doomed to failure because of his
ignoring the utterly provocative and illegal
Soviet blockade of Berlin, in defiance of
the Potsdam agreement, the U.N. Charter,
and the stand, on behalf of charter prin-
ciples, by Britain and U.S.A. ,
Dr. Evatt is ruining the hopes of a com-
mon Empire policy just as Mr. Calwell,
DOMICILE INDEFINITE.
“You say you’re World Citizen No. I; but have you got your Australian papers
under Calwell’s Nationality and Citizenship Act?”
by his provocative dealing with the cases
of individual Asiatics, is throwing the
White Australia policy wide open to
hatred and reprisal. The sabotage by
“Labor” of Australian fighting services,
and of universal training, has left this
country powerless to resist any enemy or
to make its voice in foreign policy worth
anything at all.
Under “Labor’s” socialisation policy
and its dislike of what it called “British
imperialism,” Australia has become more
vulnerable than ever before in its history.
Warning from the Ruhr.
Austerity in order to win the war was
a thing the British people understood
and nobly suffered while the war lasted.
They buckled down to an extension of
this austerity in order that the country
could pull itself out of the mess caused
by war wastage and exhaustion. Now
the Attlee Socialist Government calls
upon them to accept for four more years
privations in order that “Labor” in
Britain may establish a socialised
economy.
The planners have got it all mapped
out; others of the same brand think
they have in Australia, too. But the
reaction is on the way from an unsus-
pected quarter. In the Ruhr, where no
socialistic nonsense or go-slow is allowed
under the Allies’ policy of speedy re-
storation of Western German industry,
production of coal, coke and steel is well
on the way to full recovery.
Communist agitators in Western Ger-
many are reported to be losing influence
as economic conditions improve and the
industrious German habit reasserts itself.
Employment in the Ruhr coalmines rose
steadily during 1948, younger men, too,
increased in the miners’ ranks, and
absenteeism dropped considerably. The
first chilly draughts of doubt have begun
to affect British industrial observers of
this progress as they calculate the possi-
bility of German exports undercutting
those of Socialist-rim Britain, and making
hay of all the Cripps.planning.
One thing certain is that the Socialist
policy of “organising scarcity and equalis-
ing misery” can never win against private
enterprise in a nation like the Germans,
or (as our Australian Socialist planners
will discover) the Japanese. In both
these ex-enemy peoples the instinct to put
the interests of the nation, especially after
the humiliation of defeat, above those of
the individual is as strong as the other
natural disposition towards hard work.
When under the grinding discontents of
Socialist mismanagement and penalty
rates of taxation on the profits of private
trading the quality of British and Aus-
tralian manufactures declines (as within
everybody’s experience it is already
doing), the competition of restored Ger-
man and Japanese products in world
trade will bring inescapable retribution
to Socialists and their protesting victims
alike.
In that day Socialist and Communist
policy will be perceived to be but two
names for a single economic poison. Any
community which must earn its living in
the world can be deluded by either theory
only for so long as its intelligence is dis-
tracted by the distresses of living from
half-empty hand to hungry mouth.
A Reprimand Needed.
Something will have to be done about
the Maitland (N.S.W.) Municipal Council.
It is running a large town on the border
of the coalfields, with large farming areas
around it, and sitting across a main road
and railway running from Sydney and
Newcastle into the north and north-west
of the State. It seems to think that, be-
cause of this, it has some rights, though
whether under Dr. Evatt’s Human Rights
Charter or Mr. Calweff’s Citizenship Act
isn’t clear.
Anyway, Maitland Council suggested to
the Joint Coal Board that, as coal was
carted over its main roads, the J.C.B.
might help it to maintain these roads.
Apparently, either then or in subsequent
exchanges, Maitland Council so far for-
got itself as to criticise the J.C.B. Where-
upon a J.C.B. representative wrote to the
council:
It is quite apparent to me that unwar-
ranted criticism has been directed at the
board, due possibly to his Worship the
Mayor and council being unaware of the
real functions of the -.board. I would
remind you that statements of this nature
do not create harmonious relations between
the council and the board. I request that
his Worship the Mayor and council refrain
in future from making such statements.
Far from being properly penitent,
Alderman McDonald at once an-
nounced that he was “surprised at the
temerity of public servants,” an Aid. Clyde
said he would criticise whenever he felt
like it and that the council might be ex-
cused for thinking that the J.C.B.’s duties
were to “provide football boots and grand
pianos,” and —another added —“bowls
and golf trophies.” The Mayor of Mait-
land was “surprised at the temerity of
the request” to refrain from criticism.
All of which shows a strange attitude.
How on earth is the J.C.B. going
to carry on its “real functions” of giving
the miners all they want and getting
ẁ
ẃ
((Continued at foot of next page.)
Women and Children First
w
ŵ
D. E.


mm
They satisfy
in every way , • •
CRAVE NA"
made speciaUtf
irteveMt soieifaouts
V
6659 E-R
CARRERAS LIMITED OVER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITT.
doubts assailed the Chifley mind, and not
much longer before he was forced to
realise that he still had the same old team
with the same old minds. And with
this most people who have read the 1948
Federal “Hansards” will agree. The old
proverb has been struck a sorry blow.
Last week, however, an explanation
was put forward, and from a most un-
expected source. Mr. Macmahon Ball,
a traveller with a record of peregrina-
tions most “Labor” politicians would
envy, came out with the proposition that
“every possible obstacle should be placed
in the way” of Australians under 16 and
over 30 who wished to travel abroad. His
argument is that youngsters under 16
are too young to appreciate what they
might see and that oldsters beyond 30
are too fixed in their ideas to learn any-
thing. If Mr. Ball’s theory is accepted
the Chifley experiment has proved no-
thing, as even “Dollars” Daly was by
that reckoning “aged” when he was sent
abroad.
Unfortunately, a further difficulty arises
in assessing the value of Mr. Ball’s theory.
It occurs when a survey is made of the
propounder’s own travels. Born in 1901,
he made his first foreign pilgrimage in
1929 on a Rockefeller Travelling Fellow-
ship. He studied in Britain, Germany,
France and Italy, returning to Australia
in 1931. Seven years later he went abroad
again, visiting Britain, Europe and
U.S.A. on a Carnegie Fellowship. With
the advent of the “Labor” Government
he began travelling in earnest. Dr. Evatt
took him to San Francisco as a consult-
ant ; sent him to the Dutch East Indies
as “political representative” and to Japan
as British Commonwealth member of the
Allied Council. In Tokyo he raji foul
of Our Foreign Policy when the Doc.
made what Paul Hasluck described as
one of his changes of plumage in mid-
flight. He resigned and returned to Aus-
tralia, but a few months ago headed a
“goodwill mission” to South-East Asia.
Altogether his record of travel is a notable
one, but if there is anything in his re-
cently announced theory most of it has
been wasted, as he turned 30 towards
the end of his Rockefeller trip in 1931
The whole question is a problem the
Prime Minister might set one of his
many “experts” to solve—Dr. • Coombs,
perhaps. Or possibly it is a matter for
the C.S.I.R.
POLITICAL POINTS
U.S. Ambassador Cowen’s transfer
from Canberra to the Philippines is offi-
cially described as “promotion.” Good
luck to Mr. Cowen, who has made many
friends in this country; but perhaps some
External Affairs genius will now be able
to work out just where Australia stands
on the ladder of middle- and small-sized
Powers.
For fatuous statements the only thing
to beat a “Labor” Senator is another
“Labor” Senator. A typical example
from Aylett, one of Tasmania’s team of
six:
If we do not get our Commonwealth line
of ships the time will come when everything
will be carried by air regardless of cost.
The big shipping companies are gaining
control of the airlines and we will be paying
Is. a pound to freight everything by air.
When T.A.A. was being established the
argument was that the “big shipping com-
panies” were gaining control of airlines
in order to stifle them in the interests of
their ships. Now, apparently, they are go-
ing to scrap their ships and carry all the
coal and spuds in Dakotas and Sky-
masters. Whether T.A.A. is a party to
the scheme Senator Aylett did not dis-
close.
The sorry tale of electricity failures in
the McGirr city goes on, with losses of
food, work and money. McGirr’s Mr.
Cahill introduced a rationing scheme
which didn’t work because it was too' silly
for words, and blackouts last week were
becoming more numerous every day. In
former times this sort of thing would
have resulted in a cleaning-out of the re-
sponsible authorities and employees, but
these days any excuse is tamely accepted,
from lack of coal to lack of plant, “diffi-
culties of maintenance,” and even “dis-
loyalty of housewives.” Meantime, no-
body takes the trouble to count the herd
of employees attached to the Sydney
County Council’s electricity outfit or look
into the staff “politics” of the queer show.
N.S.W. country papers are reporting
the case of a Newcastle man who had
his stomach removed and is now living
well. Heavens! If Mr. Chifley should
hear of this!
“Explaining” hi§ foreign policy to the
House last week Dr. Evatt said: “The
San Francisco Charter of U.N.O. was
founded on the belief that the four major
Powers would always be in agreement.”
Hope, perhaps ; belief, no. If Evatt be-
lieved that he’s gullible enough to believe
his own propaganda.
Echoing the man who put him there.
Commonwealth Bank Governor Coombs
went on the air to urge the commonality
to save. He was particularly insistent
that “those of us who have developmental
or capital projects in mind” should
“spread them, postponing those not im-
mediately necessary.” Sound advice, but
there was not a word from Dr. Coombs
about withdrawing his bank’s hire-pur-
chase advertisements.
Cal well’s challenge to the Opposition on
the O’Keefe case was a typical example
of the man’s technique of bluff and
bluster. He knows quite well that pro-
tests against his petty tyranny in deport-
ing the family of an Indonesian who died
in the Allied cause are based on common
humanity. In seeking to generalise them
into a desire for the scrapping of the
White Australia policy he reveals him-
self, not for the first time, as a
political hypocrite. If deportation
orders must be signed, let this obnoxious
Minister make a start with a few of those
who advocate a Red Australia. They
are the greatest danger to a White Aus-
tralia, though impetuous Jacks-in-offlde
like Calwell run them a close second.
Aftermath of that triple-time coal cut
on the Anniversary Day holiday. The
railwaymen wouldn’t handle it on the
holiday, so two colliers bound for S.A.
were held up and 25,000 workers in
Adelaide had to be put off for three or
four days without pay until the stuff
arrived. In effect the Coal Board paid
miners triple rates so that Adelaide
workers would lose half a week’s pay.
When N. S. Wales Liberal-party presi-
dent Spooner published in “S. M. Herald”
an article claiming that tax reductions if
made earlier might have stimulated pro-
duction and lowered prices Mr. Arndt,
Lecturer in Economics at Sydney Uni.,
came out with a reply that might almost
have been written by Chifley himself.
After taking Spooner to task for spread-
ing “antiquated views” which might “con-
stitute a serious obstacle to an effective
full-employment policy” he went on to
say:
The chief criterion of a sound taxation
policy must be the amount of purchasing-
power that can safely be left in private
hands if inflation is to be avoided.
To that Chif. would certainly say “Hear!
Hear!” So would the old bandit who
used to tell his victims “It’s a hot day.
Give me all your clothes and I’ll give you
back your shirt.”
Victoria’s new Liberal-Country party
was launched at Horsham last week at a
meeting attended by 2000 people. Other
meetings are scheduled for Portland,
Kerang and Swan Hill during the next
few days. Premier Hollway is reported
as “overjoyed” at the launching of the
movement; C.P. leader McDonald as
claiming the meeting was a flop. Mc-
Donald did not go to Horsham ; his name-
sake, Liberal W. J. F. McDonald, who
did, announced that he had joined the
new party. Hollway, who claims that
only by complete unity of the anti-
Socialist forces can “Labor” be defeated
at the Federal elections, is to tour his
State in support of the Lib.-Country
party, and Albert Dunstan, concerning
whom the pique began, is to tell the
“true facts” at Bendigo tomorrow night.
• Accused persons brought before Com-
munist Courts of Justice are not the only
people who lose all sense of mental in-
dependence under Communist control of
their lives. The Melbourne Tramways
Employees’ executive resolved in January
that the secretary should sign a letter
to the Melbourne Trades Hall Council
dissociating the trammies from attacks
on T.H.C. leaders by certain militant
unions. Comrade O’Shea, the secretary,
refused to sign the letter. The executive
first demanded he should do its bidding
with a time-limit for compliance; then
weakened and agreed to hold a ballot of
members as to whether O’Shea should
obey executive orders. Last week by a
vote of 2040 to 1503 the union supported
O’Shea and the attacks on the T.H.C. and
snubbed its own executive. Do unions
really like a dictatorship?
The British Royal Commission on the
press—set up by the Attlee Government,
partly in response to Communist and
Labor yells that the press was “capital-
istic” and wilfully distorted the state-
ments of honest Labor men —was told
by a “senior Government publicity
officer” that the Government often denied
“newspaper statements” which were later
proved true. Pressmen, in Australia as
elsewhere, were well aware of that, but
the admission from an authoritative
quarter made the commission almost
worth while.
Darby, Liberal M.L.A. for Manly
(N.S.W.), says members of Parliament
should spend at least a third of their
time in study. Probably a third of them
do—studying the prospects of fiddle-
faced animals which cart mannikins
around circular tracks at varying speeds.
Between them Australia’s farmers,
orchardists, graziers and other land men
prodlwed £6OO million-worth of primary
goodsfor 1948-49, about the same as last
year. Grains are down, meat, wool,
milk and sugar up; practically all land
products were in greater volume than pre-
war. This in spite of labor and material
shortages. If only the same could be
said of factory man-hour production,
where the “workers” enjoy benefits the
land men only dream about.
Printed prominently on the flap of an
envelope from the Commonwealth Sub-
Treasury is this advice;
Don’t talk about factory production.
No, don’t; it must be a headache even
to the Sub-Treasury.
Eire’s first reaction to the Ulster elec-
tions which resulted in an overwhelming
victory for the party favoring the reten-
tion of the link between Northern Ire-
land and the United Kingdom was indi-
cated by the remarks of Eire’s High
Commissioner in London on the Atlantic
Pact. He said, in effect, that Eire could
not join the Pact while partition con-
tinued. In other words, the Southern
Irish will not join with other nations in
defence of Freedom unless the Northern
Irish are dragooned into accepting rule
from Dublin.
H. S. Roberton, who will seek Riverina
for the C.P. at the Federal election, has
no illusions about “Labor’s” wheat
“stabilisation.” He told a Henty (N.S.W.)
gathering:
It is voluntary in the same way as it
would be under Communism. The farmer
has to hand over his produce to the
Government whether he likes it or not, or
let it rot on the farm.
And that Government, having once, for
a political end, sold the stuff at a third
of its price, is capable of doing it again.
Reported from Canberra that “Labor”
may grant cuts in taxes on income from
property. This was only to be expected;
so many of the workers’ champions have
become owners of considerable property
these days.
The Australian Trade Commissioner in
U.S.A. told some New York reporters the
other day that within six months the
Americans may be able to drink Aus-
tralian beer. That’s more than a lot of
Australians can do —however much they
look for it.
On his retirement from the Victorian
State Rivers and Water-supply Com-
mission, Harold Hanslow, a doughty
fighter against soil-erosion, forthrightly
said that the Vic. Country party, while
in power with Dunstan as Premier, had
neglected soil-conservation. Premier
Hollway supported Hanslow. , Dunstan
bounced back with claims that his Gov-
ernment had done a lot, including creat-
ing the State’s first Soil-conservation
Board. Hollway replied that he had
£21,000 on the estimates for soil work,
had appointed five field officers and in-
tended to appoint two more, both
“Bachelors of Agricultural Science.”
Weir, N.S.W. Minister for Soil-saving,
then boasted about what his outfit was
doing. Politicians in all States have a
bigger job ahead of them than these
efforts will cope with.
Britain’s nationalised airlines are piling
up deficits at a rate that must make even
T.A.A. jealous. For the six months ended
September 30 last 8.0.A.C. dropped
£3,355,000 and B.E.A. £1,121,000. That
period is the better-earning half of the
year; air traffic falls off in the European
winter. The Civil Aviation Minister re-
ports that measures of reorganisation and
economy “are being prosecuted with
drastic vigor.”
Nationalisation of the legal profession
hasn’t been threatened yet, but at the rate
Attorney-General Evatt is going it will be
accomplished soon without legislation.
By advertisement in the press he has
announced 60 vacancies for legal officers
in his department.
South African wool-brokers have
recently discovered that in order to get
dollars Continental buyers are reselling
wool to America at prices lower than
they buy it in Capetown. Mr. Chifley
found out months ago that the same thing
is going on with Australian wool. He
suggested that the practice was dishonest.
S’Africans don’t take this view. They re-
gret their possible loss of dollar earnings,
but recognise the right of a buyer to do-
what he likes with his own property.
With a bill to remove “private capi-
talist elements from the book trade”
Czechoslovakia’s Communist Cabinet has
formally committed literature to the
concentration camp. A Ministry of En-
lightenment, which will “direct book pub-
lications and plan yearly output,” will
conduct the strangulation. Fellow-
travellers in the Fellowship of Australian
Writers—if anything can enlighten them
—should now know where they are
blundering to.
Simultaneously with a series of fiery
speeches at the A.W.U.’s Melbourne
convention castigating the Communists
as enemies of the “Labor” movement and
instigators of “treachery against Aus-
tralia,” a delegation of metalliferous
miners, members of the A.W.U., from
Captain’s Flat (N.S.W.) —who have been
on strike since mid-October —applied to
the Communist-bossed Miners’ Federation
for admission to that union, and were
accepted. The miners’ executive has
been waging war against the'A.W.U. over
the right to possess the bodies of these
men, as well as those in the Kemeira
tunnel, some of whom have also appa-
rently deserted the A.W.U. Fiery speeches
against Chifley’s “philosophers” will not
save “Labor.”


NOT INTERNATIONAL CLASS.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“A.I.F. Nurse”; It happened during
the evacuation of Greece. All day we
were huddled on the beach, hiding from
the bombers. Night came, and the wel-
come boats sneaked inshore to take us
out to the waiting destroyers. There
were several nurses beside myself in the
boatload of Diggers that felt its way
through pitch-darkness to the grey vessel
that spelt safety and escape. We drew
alongside, someone gave me a leg-up and
brawny arms groped downwards out of
the gloom. I felt a rough hand thrust
itself under my right arm-pit. Then it
wasn’t so rough, and another hand,
almost gentle, was under my left arm,
I was heaved upwards, and as I was
swung over the ship’s side a sailor’s voice
called out: “Strewth, Bill. Guess what
I’ve got here! ” From a couple of yards
along the rail came another voice, pre-
sumably Bill’s. “I know. I’ve got one
too.”
* * * ♦
“Pitt St.”: A young Sydney man, with
a number of fines for parking offiences,
made a martyr of himself by going to jail
for a couple of days. Surrounded by a
reporter when he came out, he described
the allegedly bad conditions of the jail,
whereupon sundry people emitted noises
of distress and a sort of wave of prison
reform, regardless of the nature of convic-
tions, broke out. This sort of misplaced
sentiment makes me tired. Some big
hulking fellow takes to me on the way
home some night, kicks my teeth in, robs
me of money and valuables, puts me in
hospital for a week. He’s captured, con-
victed and possibly gets six months —if it’s
a first offence. These reformers want his
stay in the jail made so pleasant that he
actually enjoys a holiday at the public
expense and doesn’t fear going back when
convicted again.
« * * *
“Clooter”: Some of these radio inter-
viewers put silly questions to their
victims. The other night one of them got
hold of a gentleman who heads a concern
which hopes to have a small Australian-
made car on the market soon, the machine
to sell at around £3O0 —40-hour weeks,
failing production, coal troubles and
other circumstances permitting. “Of
course,” said the radio man, “a small car
like that would help to solve the Sydney
parking problem.” There was a brief
silence, then the interviewee said, doubt-
fully, “Well—er —yes. A small car natur-
ally won’t occupy as much space as a big
one.” He was obviously too polite to say
that if his car can be sold for £3OO
thousands will buy them who can’t afford
the new cars now on the market, and thus
crowd with cars a city which can’t accom-
modate those already there.
* * * *
“K.A.”: Hidden somewhere in the
Post-office Guide there may be a regula-
tion requiring a weekly count of the
number of letters passing through non-
official post-offices (B. 26/1/’49), but one
month annually a check is kept to deter-
mine the payment due the office. It is
during this month local inhabitants are
canvassed by the zealous P.M. into catch-
ing up on neglected correspondence, while
his family is employed On the advertising
columns of the papers to make up a
substantial safety margin. Consequently
an astonishing quantity of mail, ranging
from catalogues to company prospectuses
and advertising brochures, finds its way
into obscure corners of the continent.
When asked, a surprising number of
advertisers answer inquiries under plain
envelopes, and probably quite a lot of
business is the direct result of this legiti-
mate if unorthodox method of practising
postal self-preservation.
* * * *
“Rocks”: That female who insisted on
the observance of the “Keep to the left”
rule (B, 2/2/’49) had a forerunner in a
reverend gentleman of the ’nineties named
Clark. Despite his diminutive physique, he
would plant himself in the path of any
18-stoner who sought to pass him on the
left and was several times hauled before
the court for his insistence. In those days
many shopkeepers displayed their wares
on the footpaths, leaving very little space
for pedestrians. The Rev. Clark’s cru-
sade against the practice did much to put
a stop to the encroachment,
* * * ♦
“Hamer”: Maeterlinck may have got
some exaggerated ideas about the doings
of the Australian white-ants (B. 2/2/’49),
but he missed the experience of Pegleg
Charlie in Cairns hospital. Charlie, found
in the bush in a bad way, made a quick
“Look, Donald — nylons!"
recovery, and in a couple of weeks asked
for his wooden leg so that he could leave
the hospital. Directly he put his weight
on his artificial pin it shattered into dusty
fragments—the white-ants had evidently
taken possession while he lay in the bush,
and had made a job of his leg while he
was being nursed back to health.
* ♦ * ♦
“Findy”: According to an afternoon
paper every schoolboy in the town of
Hythe (England) is to plant a tree bearing
his name on a metal tag. The object is to
check a “wave of wanton damage” and
to develop the boys’ sense of natural
beauty. I wish the authorities luck, but
compulsory work in the garden never
made any boy of my acquaintance fond
of cabbage or spinach; forced lawn-
mowing has made many of ’em allergic
to grass. As to checking the wave of
wanton damage. I’ll believe that when it
happens. Natural pride may inspire each
boy to protect the tree with his nameplate
on it, but I doubt whether it will go
much further than that. Trees sponsored
by bullies and the sort will be marked
down for special treatment at the hands
of their victims, and I visualise some
first-rate feuds developing and mighty
battles raging along that newly-planted
avenue.
* * * ♦
“Pedant”: Afraid I must doubt “Mus-
keen’s” yarn of the swallowed pearls
recovered by emetics (B. 19/1/’49). In
Voltaire’s Candida it is the captured Jews
who swallow both diamonds and pearls.
But the Barbary corsairs put no faith in
emetics ; they were better acquainted with
purgatives. The really brilliant part of
the narrative is the account of the com-
petition of the Moors to reach the spot
when an unhappy Hebrew reluctantly
yielded to the inevitable. It is doubtful
if any emetic could cause a human
stomach to yield up so solid and
innocuous an object as a pearl; the
stomach is highly selective in the objects
which it rejects, and there is no record of
emetics having induced stomachs to yield
up solid, tasteless objects. As witness
the surgical operations necessary to un-
burden the stomachs of insane persons
and circus performers who may have
swallowed anything from glass “alleys”
to razor-blades.
* ♦ * *
“Spinet”; No matter what time I
visited Ward B the talk was of racing.
Beds were littered with the sporting pages,
and the patients seemed to forget their
ills as they discussed weights, handicaps
and form. One Saturday afternoon I
found Ginger, who always had the field
at his fingertips, gazing with deep despair
at his bedside radio. “Got Mum to put
all my birthday money on Black Beetle,”
he growled, taking a bite of his peanut
bar, “and the cow’s run fifth.” Ginger
had just celebrated his eleventh birthday.
Ward B is the children’s ward.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Avon”: Next door lives a virago
whose penetrating rasp of a voice is
uplifted hour in, hour out, in the most
vituperative language, at her offspring
and a dog which cringes before the foul
talk and the kicks that land on its lean
belly. The son of the house seems to be
the target of fouler language than is the
dog, but the other day, after the hound
had slunk under the house after an even
worse-than-usual verbal and physical
pulping, the boy was heard to say: “Aw,
Mum, y’ didn’t oughta speak t’ the dog
like that.”
3|g }|c
“Mickerman”: Prefabs (B. 26/1/’49)?
Australia’s first house was prefabricated
—Governor Phillip brought it out for
himself and had it erected on what is
now the corner of Bridge- and Phillip-
streets, Sydney. It had canvas walls
fixed’to a timber frame and did duty
until a more substantial house was built.
As early as 1804 Sydney was exporting
prefabricated buildings, instead of im-
porting them. Governor King ordered
three houses made and sent them to
Newcastle and Port Dalrymple. History
repeated itself with emphasis during the
Pacific War when a great number of
prefabricated buildings were sent from
Sydney to the north of Australia and the
Islands. Most of them Were made for
the U.S. Army and included whole
camps, hospitals and warehouses, sub-
stantial structures 400 ft. long by 100 ft.
broad. When San Francisco sent an
American 500-bed hospital to New
Guinea five Liberty ships were required
to carry it. Sydney sent compactly de-
signed 500-bed hospitals to the same
destination, each hospital being carried in
one Liberty ship.
* * * ♦
“Unicorn”: That separate liquor-poll
of whites and Maoris in the King
Country (B, 12/1/’49) will be interesting.
There’s more grog consumed in some of
those “dry” K.C. townships than in a
“wet” settlement twice the size. In one
place to which a pal of mine was a
frequent visitor the cellar was under an
innocent mat on top of a trapdoor in
the scullery. And what a cellar it was!
He still wets his lips when he thinks of
it, and a far-off look comes into his eyes.
Invercargill, too, used to be a good illus-
tration of a “dry” area in an otherwise
very damp country.
♦ ♦ * *
“Wunfrisnob”: These fellows claiming
their “tram-ticket” crib hands (B.
9/ 2 / ’49) ought to be suppressed or certi-
fied. Cribbage is a game of five cards
from the standard 52 pack, four numbers
to each one of four suits up to 10, then
the twelve court cards, each of which
counts ten in the search for fifteens.
Using sequences of five numbers is
childish. On that 55555 ticket the score
is 40, though I don’t know whether
“Mullum” counted it, and what would
happen if somebody got a ticket with
six s’s is nobody’s business. If the stunt
is popular in Sydney it stands a good
chance of dying out—at the rate the
fares are going up nobody will be able
to afford a ticket before long. Tram-
ticket crib is as futile as car-number
poker; your true cribbage or poker
player wouldn’t have either on. The
best ticket-number game is contract
bridge on pak-a-pu tickets —you can’t
play it.
* * * *
“Chevroford”; When the Tasmanian
Tourist Bureau came out after Christmas
with a terrazzo map of the Apple Island
let into the pavement, geographically-
minded passers-by observed that the
Derwent River, instead of having its
source in Lake St. Clair, started its mean-
derings from a large lake considerably to
the south. Tourist officials had an ex-
planation ready for the pedants. The
map is intended to portray the situation
years hence when the river will start from
an artificial lake created by the damming
of Butler Gorge for the new hydro-
electric power scheme.
* * ♦ *
“0.8.5.”: In the grey half-light just
before dawn the troops on our L.S.T.
stood by the nets Waiting for the landing
barges to come alongside. Everyone was
watching the Klandarsan beach heaving
in agony under the pounding of bombs,
Shells and rockets it received the morning
Balikpapan was invested. Suddenly a
spot of white light flared and grew in
the distant line of flame as a fuel dump
collected a direct hit. The dry, non-
chalant voice of the irrepressible who is
always present on such occasions broke
silence. “Just my flaming luck. The
cows’ve gone and hit Ryan’s pub.”
* * * *
“Ex-Serg. X,”: That telegram of
“Pronto’s” (B. 29/12/’4B) reminds me of
a similar one. I was conducting a store,
to which was attached a post-office
agency, A lass from a pickle factory
walked in to send a telegram to a lad
who had apparently forgotten either the
time, date or place of appointment, for
the message read, “Waited for you last
night but came a gutzer.” I discreetly
pointed out that slang was not accept-
able to the department, whereupon she
asked my advice. I suggested “Expected
you last night but was disappointed.”
With a locjjc of scorn she said, “Garn!
he’d be a jerry I never sent that.” We
compromised by substituting “thud.”
* ♦ ♦ ♦
“Pontius Penwiper”: Talk of ancient
pianos stirs a thought about the first
billiard-table Australia possessed. It was
installed in a pub in Pitt-street on the
east side, between King- and Market-
streets, by a publican, a bit of a mechani-
cal genius. He had the plans and speci-
fications sent to him from England; and
he bought the entire stock of India-
rubber (then sold in the block and cut
off as required) of a stationer to fashion
the cushions. His billiard-saloon became
a resort of the young bloods. It is a pity
that that No. 1 table of a game in
which Australia has produced some of
the world’s greatest exponents was not
preserved.
* * * ♦
“H.A.L.”: Tempering sword-blades
(B. 26/1/’49)? When a lad I went
through the blacksmithing course at a
technical school and decided to make a
copy of an Andrea Ferrara. My trump-
card was an old book, Industrial Arts in
Spain, which claimed to reveal the secret
of tempering the famous Toledo blades.
When my sword snapped at the first
test I took the broken blade and the
instructions to the old Scot at the Tech.
He read the paper and laughed. “Of
coorse it broke,” he scoffed. “This was
written by a mon who wasna a smith.”
Under his critical eye I forged another
billet of spring steel into a long and
slender blade, dusting it with fine white
quartz sand to act as a flux and thus
prevent taking the life out of the metal
while it was heating, and never hammer-
ing it when it had cooled below a dull-
red heat. He did the tempering for me;
the blade was heated to a clear red in a
long metal trough filled with glowing
coals, then it was lifted out, laid flat on
a baulk of jarrah, tapped with an old
wooden mallet to straighten it and
dropped vertically into a 4-inch pipe
filled with water at a little above blood-
heat. When cold it was lifted out,
warmed over the flame of a forge, rubbed
with suet, warmed again to melt the suet,
and when it was evenly coated from end
to end with hot fat he began to pass it
to and fro over the forge; the fat dark-
ened, smoked and then took fire. He at
once extinguished the flame with a bit ot
cotton waste and stood the blade asicte
to cool. After testing it between f
hands he began to strike the flat of the
blade against a near-by post. I expectea
to see it break, but it only bent into a
half-circle and sprang straight again,
ringing like a gong. “It’ll do,” he said.
Two things the old Scot told me have
always stuck in my memory; they were:
“Pay no attention to what ye read if «
wasna written by a tradesman, and Tiu>
talk o’ wunnerful old swords made n,
secret methfids is a. lot 9 jowkery*
ON ROOTY HILL.
“At an R.S.P.C.A. prosecution where a Rooty Hill
official was fined for cruelty it was contended by the
secretary of the National Coursing’ Association that
hares quite often enjoy being coursed.”'
Quit sympathising with the hunted quarry
On Rooty Hill, with hounds in action hot
Behind. There’s no occasion to be sorry
For him who lives in Shakspeare as “poor
Wat,’’
No need for all this sentimental worry
When he may be enjoying, like as not,
The chase no less than his pursuers do,
And quite as much as the spectators, too.
Timid he doubtless is, yet the assumer
That little Lepus hasn’t got his share
Of finer attributes commits a bloomer,
For who of his own knowledge can declare
That something like a genuine sense of humor
Isn’t inherent in the hunted hare
As on his twisting, turning way he goes
To save his bacon and outwit his foes?
He sometimes waits a moment, or a fraction
Of one, to put the dogs in better heart,
And obviate (we’re told) dissatisfaction
If he should get a bit too long a start,
A sporting gesture with a sure attraction
For those who take in these events a part,
And find excuses for them on the grounds
That they improve a certain breed of hounds.
Maybe, if you had glasses for discerning
Such subtle things, you’d see an impish grin
Upon the hare that by some artful turning
Has taken elongated canines in,
And thereby baffled their voracious yearning
To get their teeth into his tender skin,
And note, when he’s in safety or all-but,
A flick of triumph in that scuttling scut.
So take a pull, you who insist that various
Sanctions and penalties should be enforced
’Gainst certain pastimes you account nefarious
But which our rude forefathers once endorsed.
Still, though they find the game a bit precarious
Hares may—for all we know —enjoy being
coursed
And share themselves a portion of the thrill
They give to men and dogs on Rooty Hill.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bo”: The lot of the M.P. is—heaven
knows!—hard enough as it is. Nine long
years he has .to wait before qualifying for
a miserable £B-a-week pension, and if he
is, through indiscreet acts or otherwise,
tossed out by the electorate or the party
at, say, 35, then he may draw the pittance
for perhaps only 40 years or so. In the
service of his country he is compelled
sometimes to sleep fitfully on a colleague’s
shoulder while more fortunate citizens
have the comfort of their beds. He is
compelled to walk fully 20 yards from the
place of his work to the bar, which as
often as not has a choice of only a dozen
or so of alcoholic refreshments. When
pressure of business is particularly high
he may even have to “work” for five
months in the year, and if he decides to
take a jaunt overseas for about eight
months there is always some nark to ask
what he’s doing there or when he’s com-
ing back. The puzzle is that there are any
men found ready to put up with these
hardships; that there are is a living re-
minder that patriotism is not dead. But
now has fallen one of the worst blows on
the poor M.P. After 40 years of official
openings by politicians the Wyong
(N.S.W.) Agricultural Association has de-
cided to dispense with speeches at its
show opening next Friday. But bad as
the blow is to the politician, hoW immeas-
urably worse is it for those who attend
the inevitable luncheon! Full and con-
tented, they have been led to expect over
the years to be able to sit back comfort-
ably and take a post-prandial nap, and
what better soporific than the drone of
"I'd go for a swim if I'd thought to bring my costume.”
platitudes going on and on and on? Now
after the feed everyone will have to get
straight up and start looking at the con-
founded exhibits. For the sake of all
concerned, let us have this insidious de-
cision scotched!
♦ * * *
“Billy T.”: The radio has just told me
that today’s sales produced an “all-time”
record for the price of fine wool. Last
night it told me the same thing, and
doubtless if somebody pushes the figure
up a penny tomorrow the statement
will be repeated. Similarly “all-time”
records are being announced in spending,
saving birth, death and divorce. If a
commodity reaches the highest price, or
a man runs the fastest mile to date, that
figure is simply the record and remains
as such till surpassed, when the new
figure becomes the record. There can be
no all-time record until the end of tim?—
when records won’t matter, anyway. If 1
drank an eighteen-gallon keg dry for
breakfast I might be justified in claiming
it as a record feat for that rneal; but any
claim for an “all-time” record would have
to be deferred till time was no more or
beer was no longer brewed—which is
much the same thing.
* * * *
“Ike Holler”: A curious boner has
made its appearance on some Sydney
hoardings. The huge sign reads; “What
Put Up Tram Fares” (in large letters)
and then (in smaller ones) “The Institute
of Public Affairs of N.S.W.” _ The Insti-
tute is surely doing itself an I
am reminded of the misadventure of a
boozy country doctor who, after a pro-
longed vigil by the bedside and whisky
decanter of his wealthiest patient, braced
himself and signed the death certifi-
cate in a flowing hand: “Angus
McGillicuddy, M.D.” But he placed the
signature in the space allotted for ‘ cause
of death.”
* * * ♦
“Pongo”: A civil servant of my ac-
quaintance who did not like red tape
received a “Please explain” for failure
to observe departmental regulations. His
ingenious replies kept the file in circula-
tion for months until the departmental
head, feeling himself outmanoeuvred,
enlisted the aid of a couple of the best
“Please-explainers” in the service, and
after a stiff campaign the malefactor was
cornered. He held the file for the maxi-
mum permitted period—three days and
then threw in the towel. His final con-
tribution was: “I’m now quite agree-
able to the closing of correspondence in
connection with this matter.” The reply
must have appealed to the chief’s sense
of humor, for the culprit heard no more
about it.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: With commendable dis-
patch, Premier Hollway has honored
his promise to give Victoria a State
orchestra; citizens may be listening to
its first performance some time in April.
They won’t notice a great difference in
its composition from the body which has
been providing Melbourne with outstand-
ing programmes for some years past.
The permanent conductorship will be
offered to Bernard Heinze, the 72 musi-
cians will be the recognised best in Mel-
bourne, one of the first overseas con-
ductors will be Raphael Kubelik, and all
A.B.C. importations will appear in due
course. The Governmental coffers will
provide an annual £15,200. The orchestra
will give free concerts in the city and
also visit schools and country centres.
*,* * *
“Young Slim”: “Tackline S.” (B.
22/12/’4B) needn’t go all the way to
Venezuela for gruesome road-signs. On
the narrow road built by the Yanks from
Hollandia to the inland lakes which sup-
plied the area with fresh water there were
many such signs. Wherever a truck
crashed down the precipitous cliff side a
notice such as “Three men died here,
Drive carefully” was set up. Riding on
the back of a fast-moving, negro-driven
truck, these signs kept me in a continuous
state of restricted breathing, especially
when the driver charged a line of on-
coming traffic to take advantage of a
space a little way down the line—a
S p ace which, it seemed to me, could fill
up j n a second, leaving no alternative but
a d i ve over the side, which would mean
a nother notice, this time about me!
* * *
“Gadfly’ : There must be some con-
fusion of identity in “Simon’s” memories
of Milton Hayes (B. 19/1/’49). He was
never a prisoner-of-war. An admimstra-
five officer in the A.S.C. (M.T.), he was
invalided home in T 7 with pneumonia,
and convalesced in the next bed to me.
He certainly did not develop his “mean-
derings” and business at camp concerts
as an introduction to vaudeville; he was
a lesser “top-liner” on the halls before
1914. Hayes wrote and specialised in
his own monologues, one of which, “The
Green Eye of die Little Yellow God,”
is still perpetrated at smokos. From this
“epic” he made pots of money through
“According to this it should be just about done now ."
sales, royalties and performing fees. In
those days “Mad Carew” was such an
habitual feature of canteen sing-songs
that, although the reciter might be
allowed to deliver the first line or two in
solo, by the time he got to “There’s a
broken-’earted woman tends the grive of
mad Cahroo, and the yeller gawd forever
gazes dahn,” the whole mob was beefing
it out with him.
* * * *
“E.G.”: Federation Peak, believed to
be the last unsealed mountain in Tas-
mania, has been conquered by a party
from the Geelong College Exploration
Society. Many attempts had been made
to climb this crag which rises out of the
wild Arthur Range to the height of
5000 ft. It was named in 1901
by T. B. Moore, who was then
blazing a track from Port Davey to the
Lune River. The successful party of 16
went well-equipped for the expedition.
They carried 8001 b. of food, including a
four-gallon tin of peanuts, on their
week’s trek to the starting-point for the
climb. The four who reached the top
used ropes and special tackle, and were
helped by aerial photographs recently
taken of the peak. This school organisa-
tion hit the headlines two years ago, when
its members landed on Rodondo Island
in Bass Strait.
* * * ♦
“Zake”; Sydney has been deeply
touched by a well-publicised, patriotic,
even altruistic act by its wharflaborers.
The stout fellows, who have so often
demonstrated their he-man qualities by
playing cards behind a wharf-stack almost
to within 10 minutes of a rain-cloud com-
ing overhead, have been unloading a
quarter of a million building tiles from
India, there being at the moment no
foreign policy for them to determine.
With magnificent self-restraint they
forbore to toss the tiles around with the
same abandon they display towards glass-
ware and crockery, and the importers
were so grateful they turned on free beer.
As a mild observer of the maritime scene
I await with no little interest revelation of
the mortality among tiles the shipment
after the grateful importers take the
wharfies’ unaccustomed care for granted
and either forget or refuse to turn on the
suds for ’em.
* * * •
“Spokeshave” ; Touching “Oxmead’s”
inquiry (B. 9/2/’49) concerning the exist-
ence of surnames in Australia without
capital letters: Melbourne’s telephone
directory has two ffrenches and two
ffrosts. I should say they belong by
right to the small-letter tradition, but a
hard-hearted department refuses to honor
the distinction ; they appear as Ffrench
and Ffrost.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Old-timers in Liverpool
(N.S.W.) will remember the jovial cleric
whose hobby was driving spirited young
trotters. They will also remember the
railway crossing at Warwick Farm, where
one wintry night his sporting reverence
was compelled to rein-in a frisky young
high-stepper until a train passed. The
train was a long and very slow goods,
followed by another in the opposite
direction. By the time the gates were
swung open the colt had become cold ;
he jibbed. The cleric was no mug with
a horse; he took the young ’un very
easily, coaxed, clicked, turned him ’round
—in fact, tried all the orthodox methods
to make a cold pony start. With another
train due, he was beginning to worry,
when out of the shadows stepped a tall
figure. It took the horse by the head and
turned him around; but the jib refused
to move forward. The stranger patted
and coaxed, even tried pulling at a foreleg
with a loop of rope. It was wasted
effort. Suddenly he lost his temper. He
shook the bridle violently and swore
loudly, embracingly and with complete
abandon. For several seconds the animal
stood trembling, then it leapt forward.
A backward jump saved the linguist from
going under the wheel, but he was quick
enough to grab the back of the sulky
and swing himself up and over. Drop-
ping into the seat he began; “I’ll ride
with you into Liverpool ...” Then he
saw who the driver was and apologised:
“I’m sorry . , . my language ... I didn’t
know . . .” “That’s all right,” said the
padre. “But what about coming for a
drive tomorrow night? The moke might
jib again.”
* * * *
“Momokan”: “Bula’s” absentminded
car-driver (B. 26/1/’49) recalls the story
of a Melbourne parson who drove his
wife into the city to do her shopping.
He stayed in the car while she went into
a shop, then, noticing something in the
window, he went in himself. After
making his purchase he strolled through
the shop into the next street and caught
the tram home, Half-an-hour later the
maid asked whether his wife would be in
for lunch. Absently he muttered, “I
suppose so, she didn’t say anything to
me about going out.” “But, sir,” remon-
strated the maid, “you took her out over
an hour ago.” Back to town by tram
went the parson to find his wife fuming
in the car outside the emporium.
* * * *
“Fedweb”; Touching these pub names
(B. 9/2/’49), anybody ever noticed the
prevalence of Dukes, Royals and Majes-
ties in those congested suburbs the
papers call “typical working-class areas”?
Uppah-class pubs generally take their
name from the locality, or bear such
titles as Astra, Grosvenor, Pacific, Grand
and so forth. There seems to be some
sort of snobbery in it, but I haven’t the
time to identify it.
* * * •
“Observer”: Wine aged in the bottle
(B. 19 /1 / ’49)? Years ago, while travel-
ling between Sydney and Launceston in
the old Oonah, I asked the steward for
a bottle of claret. He said “Sorry, sir,
right out of Australian claret, but there
are some bottles of French claret which
passengers won’t drink on account of
soiled, stained bottles ; you can have it at
the same price.” He brought out a bottle
stained and with a cork that crumbled.
One taste and I immediately bought the
rest then available. The chief steward
said it was portion of wines placed in
storerooms when the Oonah left the
builders’ hands. I made another trip to
get the balance, which he got from the
“cubby-hole”; it was what Gaston
Levain called nectar —and at 4s. a bottle.
* * * *
“M. I. Tchell”: “Penny Post’s” ex-
planation (B. 12/1 /’49) of where the
stamps go only confirms my long-held
suspicion. For years now all mail from
overseas with high-denomination stamps
arrives sans stamps, and often the price
paid by the sender (written on the parcel
by the sending office) is plainly visible in
a bare patch where a stamp once reposed.
Some years ago I had a special set of
Canadian first-day stamps sent to me.
The sender, in announcing their impend-
ing departure, said he would gloss them
over with a stick-fast mucilage to pre-
vent their coming off. The envelope duly
arrived with five yellow edgings round
five white blank spaces. Still the post-
master maintained that they had just
come unstuck” somehow. Too right they
had!
ELECTION BAIT.
“Some Labor members are confident that this
year’s Budget will provide for substantial cuts in
taxes on beer, spirits and cigarettes, but Mr.
Chifley has so far refused to give any indication of
his intentions.” — “S. M. Herald
Taxes in ordinary circumstances
Or cuts therein convey, you’ll mostly note,
A clear perception of the tastes and fancies
By those who’ll presently be called to vote.
The lifting-of oppressive impositions
May gain a Treasurer some real regard
From people of all classes and conditions.
It’s hard to beat as an election card.
Like bread that on the waters is projected
(Butter, perhaps, might better fit the phrase)
It’s like to bring the dividends expected
After a measurable lapse of days.
He well may pose as lightening the oppressive
Burden upon a host of backs who grants
A measure of relief from the excessive
Prices of sedatives and stimulants.
Election bait! How many budget-makers
Have found therein a blessing and a boon
To boost their stock. But what self-shown
wiseacres
Are those who scatter round the bait too
soon!
For gratitude can hardly be expected
To last where reasoned confidence is not,
And injuries are often recollected
When bygone benefits are clean forgot.
Will beer and fags for which we’re charged so
stiffly
To lowered figures soon be on' the way?
Well, no one knows for certain barring Chifley
And he persistently declines to say.
It may be featured in the near perspective,
But holding it till the election’s eve
Looks like a move to make it more effective;
So Ben prefers to keep it up his sleeve.
N.S.W.
PPARDS.


THE
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria,
Est. 1885
C-SSS
&ke
Simplifies Business and Estate Administration
',A *1
H
The future welfare of a business bequeathed as part
of an Estate may well depend on sound direction by
the Executors and Trustees. When expert know-
ledge is required the Union Trustee Company may
be joined as Co-executor or Trustee.
A wide range of Services covering every require-
ment in Estate administration is permanently avail-
able—at moderate cost.
Phone, write or call for your complimentary copy
of the informative booklet, “Important Facts Con-
cerning Wills, Executors, Trustees.”
333 Collins St., Melbourne—2 O’Connell St., Sydney—39 B-402 Queen St., Brisbane
and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The only Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States —Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland.
THE WILD CAT COLUMN
E., S. and A. Bank
Net Dividends. Written
June, Profit.* 7 p.c. Off. Reserves.
£ stg. £ stg. £ stg. £ stg.
1937.. 266,126 171,935 80,000 3,585,978
1938.. 270,594 168,875 85,000 3,602,697
1939.. 240,294 163,625 65,000 3,614,366
1940.. 205,088 149,515 50,000 3,619,939
1941.. 208,892 139,125 50,000 3,639.706
6 p.c.
1942.. 121,120 116,375 3,644,451
1943.. 134,356 120,938 3,657,869
1944.. 138,444 120,937 3,675,376
1945.. 140,419 122,250 3,693,545
Currency-adjustment reserve dis-
appears, £1,585,000 .. .. 2,108,545
9.16 p.c.
1946.. 155,326 151,250 2,112,621
10 p.c.
1947.. 190,920 165,000 2,112,621
1948. .__ 200,732 165,000 2,174,273
* After deducting payments to staff funds.
A notable feature of the latest accounts
is disclosure of a new socialist technique
for raiding the profits of the private trad-
ing banks. Although the Banking Act of
1945 places no specific limit on profits
or dividends of the private banks, it does
provide the means for controlling their
earnings, and therefore dividends.
Among other things, the trading banks
are obliged to deposit on special account
with the Commonwealth Bank—now the
agent for policing Government economic
policy on the money side—such propor-
tion of their total deposits as the Com-
monwealth Bank may direct. The aim is
Government control of credit; and this
is reinforced by a further obligation on
the part of the trading banks to follow the
policy laid down by the Commonwealth
Bank in connection with the nature, direc-
tion and volume of advances.
Last term there was a welcome increase
of £15,812,073 in the E., S. and A.’s
approved advances, raising them to 65.8
p.c. of public deposits, etc., as against
44.8 p.c. at the previous balance and 82.9
p.c. in 1939. Of its public deposits
(£68,347,067) the co. had lodged
£27,168,927 on special account with the
Commonwealth Bank at one half of one
per cent. But the co. “has not been per-
mitted to draw on these balances suffi-
ciently to finance the greater volume of
advances, and it has been necessary to
accept deposits from the Commonwealth
Bank for this purpose,” the chairman
says.
The amount so accepted was
£15,816,733 (approximately the amount
by which advances increased), on which
the co. has to pay no less than 3| p.c.—
maximum rate paid to the public on 24-
month deposits is I£. p.c. on the first
£lO,OOO and 1 p.c. on the balance. So, on
the basis of the figures at June 30 last,
the co, would receive in interest from the
Commonwealth Bank £135,844 and pay
in interest to that institution £553,585, or
£417,741 net. It all means that the maxi-
mum 4x p.c. which the co, is allowed to
charge for advances was reduced to an
effective 1.85 p.c. (which is below cost) on
the extra £15,812,073 of advances already
referred to.
This obvious discrimination against
private enterprise which is in competition
with official agency makes it easy to ap-
preciate how the influence of one nation-
wide bank, immune from competition,
might be used to carry out the wishes of
its political controllers in connection with
trade and industry generally. For instance,
what redress would a trader have who
had deposited, say, £lO,OOO with a nation-
alised bank which refused to allow him
to draw upon this balance, but offered to
advance him its own funds at 3 p.c,? It
is one form of profit-control the Govern-
ment could exercise if it succeeded in
nationalising the trading banks.
Here is a summary of the co.’s p. and 1.
figures
Income— , 1947. 1948.
Gross £1,632,403 £i;974-,378
Outgo—
. Management, etc. .. 1,015,540 1,219,479
Taxation .. .. 388,452 514,893
Staff fund ~. 35,000 35,000
£1,438,992 £1,769,372
Profit .. ... .. 193,411 205,006
Due subsidiary .. .. 2,491 4,274
Net bank .. ,;j £190,920 £200,732
Of the growth of £341,975 in gross earn-
ings, £203,939 was swallowed in manage-
ment exes, and £126,441 in taxation. After
deducting the contribution to the staff
fund and the undistributed profit (£4274)
of a subsidiary, the; net amount available
for shareholders was only £9812 stronger
at £200,723. That was 6.9 p.c. on capital,
or a mere 3.8 p.c. bn shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined). The div.
was kept at a nominal 10 p.c., which
English income tax of 9s. in the £ re-
duces to 5.5 p.c. (sterling) in the hands
of shareholders. At the current rate of
exchange that is equal to approx. 6.9 p.c.
in Australian currency, subject to adjust-
ment in connection with double taxation.
At £6 15s. 6d. the £5 shares paid to
£3 each return a wink over 3 p.c. on a
6.9 p.c. distribution. Visibly cover is
£5 4s. 3d. per share in net tangibles.
Balance-sheet figures reflect a very
sound position as well as the effects of
inflationary pressures:
1939. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital .. £3,000,000 £3,000,000 £8,000,000
Perpetual stock.. 1,872,966 •
Deposits, etc. .. 34,942,476 65,007,504 84,159,029*
Other banks, bills,
etc. .. . . 1,674,852 1,014,380 843,218
Notes .. .. 1,008 798 796
Tax reserve .. 555,932 629,256
Liquids .. .. 14,001,901 41,244,711 44,646,639 t
Advances .. 30,532,941 29,157,552 44,969,625
Premises .. 718,264 774,662 789,695
Subsidiary c 0... 117,774
Other accounts.. 510,035 392,839
* Includes £15,816,733 special deposit from Com-
monwealth Bank. f Includes special account with
Commonwealth Bank ( £27,168,924, 1948).
When the books closed liquids (including
the special account with the Common-
wealth Bank) amounted to 52,1 p.c. of
total outside liabilities, including tax re-
serve. Like the other trading banks, the
co. is well equipped to further assist trade
and industry, within the /limits prescribed
by official policy, of course.
The trading banks are one of the pillars
upon which our industrial structure rests.
The attempt of a socialist Federal Gov-
ernment to nationalise them failed to pass
the test of constitutionality before the
High Court, and is now the subject of
appeal to the Privy Council, where hear-
ing is scheduled to begin on March 14.
Hopes are that this vital question of
nationalisation, which contains the threat
of subordinating every form of industrial
activity to political expediency, will yet
be one for decision by the people them-
selves at the coming Federal elections.
Our greatest need at the moment is the
opening-up of industrial bottlenecks,
which are preventing full expansion in the
rate of real capital investment and all the
benefits that go with it.
Queensland Meat Export Co.
To Re-
Nov., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 33,872 7 p.c. = 34,386 52.678
1941.. 33,261 7 „ „ 34,386 51,553
1942.. 35,033 7 „ „ 34,386 647 52,200
1943.. 34,821 7 „ „ 34,388 435 52,635
1944.. 35,215 7 „ „ 34,386 829 53,464
To inner reserves, £3OOO ~ ~ 50,464
1945.. 23,471 5 p.c. = 24,562 49,373
1946.. 10,788 2 „ „ 9,824 964 50,337
1947.. 30,815 6 „ „ 29,474 1,341 51,678
1948.. 39,118 7 „ „ 34,386 4,732 56,410
A bigger killing and slightly better ex-
port prices for meat, thanks to the
British contract, were responsible for the
lift in last term’s net earnings, which
were the best for the past 30 years.
Absence of the normal monsoonal rains
early in 1948 gave the co.’s Ross River
works (Townsville) an early start, and
the previous Sept.-Oct. falls put stock in
fair condition. The co. also operated
at the Brisbane abattoirs on export and
home account, and quotas for the Straits
Settlements and Malaya were made avail-
able by Britain, thus enabling the co. to
renew pre-war connections with these
territories, where it holds a substantial
interest in the Singapore Cold Storage
Co., which paid 20 p.c. for the year to
end Aug., 1947, and recently increased its
issued capital.
After allowing £7803 for depreciation
and something for taxation and other con-
tingencies, the Q.M.E. figured net earn-
ings £8303 stronger at £39,118. Actually
the improvement was better than sug-
gested, because the 1947 figure included
a Ibng-overdue interest payment of £9475.
The £39,118 was around 8 p.c. on capital
as against 6.2, 2.1, 4.7, 7.1, 7 and 7.1 p.c.
back to 1942. The div. was kept at
5 p.c. and the bonus lifted from 1 p.c.
to 2 p.c., making 7 p.c. for the year. The
£56,410 of visible reserves is none too
stout a prop for £491,232 of capital; but
in this class of business everything de-
pends upon the efficiency of the works,
which are now being reconstructed and
enlarged out of savings mostly accumu-
lated over 15 years ago.
Last term £128,474 net was spent on
fixed assets, which include an unspecified
holding in the Singapore co. The outlay
was mainly on additional freezing accom-
modation at Ross River, part of which
should be available during the current
term and the balance in 1950:
1939. 1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital. . £491,232 £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Creditors* . . 319,459 269,140 246,586 303,817
Fixed assets, etc. 329,155 421,134 448,741 577,215
Stock.. .. 283,079 20,006 20,195 98,998
Stores ~ 18,992 42,667 46,221 86,028
Debtors .. 65,143 87,721 41,740 63,604
Cash, etc. . . 201,900 199,604 212,073 10,000
Shares subsid. 50,000 50,000 60,000
* Including provision for contingencies.
To meet the outlay on fixed assets,
carry an extra £78,803 of stocks, add
£39,807 to stores and £21,864 to debtors’
balances the co. drew upon cash, etc.,
for £202,073 and increased the amount
coming to sundry creditors, etc., by
£57,231. Including the div., the debt ex-
ceeded more or less liquids by £26,573
when the books closed, a contraction of
£120,742 over the twelvemonth.
Since the close of accounts the British
meat contract —chief outlet for Aus-
tralia’s exportable surplus—has been re-
newed at slightly higher prices. But
costs are still rising, and Queensland’s
Gulf country, cradle of Australia’s cattle
industry, has been in the grip of a severe
drought for the last 12 months or more.
Though recent rains have relieved the
position, the dry spell will leave its mark
on the quality of stock coming forward.
And, taken in conjunction with the
1945-46 drought, the 1950 killing season
looks like being a comparatively light one.
At 16s. 4d. the f.p. 15s. shares return
6.4 p.c. so long as the 7 p.c. distribution
continues. Net tangible cover is 16s. 9d.
Kauri Timber Co.
To Re-
Aug., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
1942.. 39,648 5 p.c. = 37,500 2,148 185,922
Unexplained addition, £2OOO . . 187,922
1943.. 37,550 5 p.c. = 37,500 50 187,972
Profit, sale of assets, £3938 . A 191,910
1944.. 88,015 5 p.c. = 37,500 515 192,425
Profit, sale of assets, £lBl .. 192,606
1945.. 38,599 5 p.c. = 87,500 1,099 193,705
Added intangibles, £4l .. ~ 193,664
Profit, sale of assets, £6608 .. 200,272
Accident ins. res. appears, £4585 204,857
1946.. 45,956 5 p.c. = 37,500 8,456 213,313
Kauri Timber & Subsidiaries.
Reserves, new subsidiary, £216 .. 240,151
Added intangibles, £139,392 .. 100,759
1947.. 76,148 '5 p.c. = 37,500 38,648 139,407
From outside interests, £14,774..!
Reserves, new subsids., £28,652.. ( ...
Added intangibles-, £100,624 .. j
Reductions reserves, £3694 .. J
1948. .133,408 64 p.c. = 48,750 84,658 163,173
This big group, largest of its kind in
Australasia, owns extensive leasehold and
freehold timberstands in New Zealand,
Westralia and the Solomon Islands ; its
mills and merchanting organisation are
scattered throughout the Dominion and
Australian States, except N. S. Wales;
and there are drying kilns and box-
making and plywood plants at Melbourne
and Brisbane. Since reconstruction in
1920, when £300,000 of reserves was
capitalised, raising paid capital to its
present figure (£750,000),’ shareholders
have not skimmed much cream from the
business; divs. have averaged only 5.1
p.c. over the last 28 years.
Still, all-round expansion of the busi-
ness, by absorption and otherwise, and
favorable trading conditions have helped
the figures along since war ended —those
for the last couple of years, which cover
group earnings of parent and subsidiaries,
are not strictly comparable with earlier
ones in the table, which relate to the
parent’s accounts only. Latest combined
accounts reflect the benefit of the
£400,000 of 4 p.c. 20-year debenture
money gathered in March, 1947, It was
used to help buy the old-established
Adelaide business of Globe Timber Mills
(paid capital £78,000), erect new joinery
works, buy more ships for the Tasmanian
trade, further mechanise forestry work,
and so quicken and cheapen the logging
section of the business, and carry more
stocks.
During the year to end August last the
Standply Timber Co. Pty. (N.Q.) was
bought, and subsequently paid a div. of
£20,862, which was used to reduce the
unstated purchase price in which it was
included. The supply position improved,
though some lines remained scarce, and
logs had to be imported at high cost for
the plywood plant. After allowing for
depreciation (£150,024, up £38,553), taxa-
tion (£227,058, up £66,653), debenture in-
terest (£16,000, up £9333) and outside
shareholders’ interests (£32,123), profit
available to those on the parent’s register
was £57,260 stronger at £133,404. That
leaves out of the reckoning various re-
serve adjustments, etc., interlined in the
table, which relate mainly to purchase
of the Standply Co. The £133,404 was
17.7 p.c. on capital as against 10 p.c.
for the previous term. A 1£ p.c. bonus
was added to the 5 p.c. div., making 6}
p.c. for the year, leaving much more to
be put on the shelf than was distributed.
No serious falling-off in business is an-
ticipated for several years, but “it would
be unwise to expect the same result in-
definitely,” the board says.
Consolidated balance-sheet figures for
the group compare as follows:
and Subsidiaries
1946. 1947. 1948.
Paid capital .. .. £750,000 £750,000 £ 750,000
Outside interests . . 168,755 247,616 335,158
Debentures . . .. 400,000 400,000
Sundry creditors .. 739,96 4 1,01 0,685 1,051,686
Properties .. .. 4 1 3,75 6 4 36,07 5 449,657
Plant, etc 5 1 2,6 4 5 5 8 3,84 2 608,469
Stocks and stores .. 505,402 884,580 1,002,819
Book debts . . .. 418,466 507,294 576,610
Shares in other cos. .. 65,3 0 3 6 2,95 7 44,253
Cash, etc 75,724 95,460 71,619
Stocks, etc. (up £118,239) is the item
that catches the eye. They are reported
in sound condition, but their size means
that net earnings will remain sensitive to
any substantial fall that might occur in
timber prices, chief threat to which
comes from overseas. The more-or-less
liquid surplus (£223,955) was £84,349
stronger.
At 375. the f.-p. 255. shares return
4.4 p.c. on a 6\ p.c. distribution. Cover
is 30s. sd. in net tangibles,
Hoyts Theatres, Ltd.
Hoyts Theatres, Ltd., & Subsidiaries.
, Dividends
ABO Nominal
June, Profit. Pref. Pref. Pref. Ord. Total. Reserves.*
£ p.c. p.c. p.c. p.c. £ £
1941. .135,298 8 7 Nil Nil 63,50 0 466,482
Reserves of new subsidiary, £7O 4 0 .. 473,522
1942. .127,594 7 6 Nil Nil 55,000 546,116
1943. .147,170 7 6 Nil Nil 55,00 0 638,286
Reserves of new subsidiaries, £55,36 0 693,646
1944. .158,527 7 6 Nil Nil 55,000 797,173
Reserves of new subsidiary, £11,289.. 808,462
Written off leaseholds, £50,621 .. 757,841
1945. 7 6 Nil Nil 55,0 0 0 888,887
Credit tax adjustment, £75,000 .. 963,887
Reserves of new subsidiary, £ 16,582.. 980,469
1946. .179,201 7 6 Nil Nil 55,000 1,104,670
Reserve of new subsidiary, £791 .. 1,105,461
1947. .189,052 7 6, Nil Nil 55,000 1,239,513
Prom tax provision, £16,500 .. 1,256,013
Reserves of new subsidiary, £1613 .. 1,257,626
Unexplained addition, £6500 .. 1,264,126
1948. .208,113 7 6 Nil Nil 55,000 1,417,239
* Reserves subject to intangibles of £1,514,750.
For the Federal Government, Hoyts
collected about £1,000,000 in entertain-
ments tax last year. Its own gross re-
ceipts in the box-office and elsewhere
were rather better than in 1947, and
although they didn’t quite reach the
£3,000,000 figure which was exceeded in
1945, the board’s tight rein on outgoings,
together with a measure of income-tax


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
0. O. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRUAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
1
hour
i
w
3
hmfmeisci
IN THE LATEST. GREATEST
DOUGLAS AIRLINER
THE 300 M.P.H.
FLYING THE “SOUTHERN DAD A
CROSS” ROUTE WITH ... DuTH
You’ll sleep during “night” flying in super-comfortable,
full-length bunks; fly “over the weather” three miles up
at 5-miles-a-minute; enjoy the restful luxury of fully air-
conditioned, “pressurised” cabins. There is no extra fare
for the DC-6, and your complete overseas journey, includ-
ing through fares-to U.K., may be arranged and paid for
in Australian currency.
ir This represents actual flying
time. En route, BCPA provide a
stop-over for sightseers at Hono-
lulu—with flrst-class accommo-
dation—compliments of BCPA.
RESERVATIONS. Full information and
reservations from your local travel
agents. Airline booking office or
BCPA Head Office, 53 Martin
Place, Sydney (phone ' BW 2741).
General Agents: Trans-Australia
Airlines.
ŵ
SYDNEY • FIJI • CANTON ISLAND • HONOLULU • SAN FRANCISCO • VANCOUVER
BCA.B.
mo
f
Pmr MfSol*
Pnw Mriols
“White label"
A Fine Scotch Whisky
Of RARE ACE
JohnDewar&SoDsL^
distillers
-CC;. p ”cohaot
Kir com ton* ifjnren on
«W*«Ufl «iW»ir«iU *W VUMW ■«
at
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
Australian and overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.— Advt.
The
Mutual Life and
Citizens 1 Assurance
Co.. Ltd.
Martin Place and Castiereagh
Street, SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of pro-
viding cash for your family, or
for yourself when you retire,
than by taking out a policy with
The M.L.C.
Assets Exceed £56,000,000.
Annual Income Exceeds
£8,500,000.
M. (3. Alder, A.1.A., Gen. Manager.
*
iate
apP r ® c
f*
Uleu
Stas
Cap
favour
litV
» *3
qua
fin©
of
vjieuS
* '
au d
leaf
iuia
w
pSTAfI
MiT&
Ck
itn
©la*
%\$ 4v&
4a
tfTV \§ir l idsT ■'
*
/;
■■
75**/*
CAPSTAN
THE EMPIRE’S FAVOURED CIGARETTE
7330-10.48
TINTARA
GOLD LABEL PORT
7, h
s.
\
\
s
S
. s I
PK
y
I
A Name
you’ll never forget..
Once you make the acquaintance of Tintara
Gold Label Port it's your choice for life.
Tintara Port, it is worth remembering, is
winner of every Australian Championship.
I often wonder what the Vintners buy, one
half so precious as the goods they sell.
-OMAB KHAYYAM
MADE BY THOMAS HARDY & SONS LTD., Adelaide, Melbourne, Sydney
i THSI
relief, produced the best net
profit in the co.’s history.
Once again the American
film interests which control
Hoyts’ policy through their hold-
ing of the £25,000 ordinary
capital have abstained from
drawing a dividend. This Holly-
wood group also owns most of
the £935,000 C (non-cumulative)
preference shares, from which it
has likewise taken no return
since they were acquired in the
early ’thirties. Australian in-
vestors’ holdings are confined to
the 400,000 7 p.c. cumulative A
prefs. and the 450,000 6 p.c.
cumulative B prefs., making up
nearly half of Hoyts’ paid
capital.
Last year five newcomers
joined the Hoyts theatre chain
Australia’s largest making
the total about 160, compared
with 70 when the co. was
formed in 1926. In Sydney,
where the circuit includes eight
city houses and about 30 in the
suburbs, Hoyts appears to be
numerically behind its rival,
Cireater Union Theatres Pty.,
Ltd.; but the situation is reversed
in Melbourne, where Hoyts man-
ages about 50 suburban cinemas
besides five in the city. Of last
year’s five additions, three re-
sulted from the purchase of exist-
ing theatres and the other two
were new buildings in outer Syd-
ney suburbs. Fixed assets rose
in the books by a net £183,808
after allowing £98,006 deprecia-
tion :
Hoyts Theatres, Ltd., & Subsidiaries.
1939. 1947. 1948.
& & &
Paid capital 1,883,881 1,918,795 1,908,337
Debentures 200,000 200,000 200,000
Mortgages .. 699,230 477,085 525,358
Overdraft .. 214,738 ■ —
Creditors 1 f 31,688 65,605
SIS
provision J [ 731,022 689,328
Freeholds .. 1,446,345 1,936,329 2,042,051
Leaseholds 391,893 202,325 218,002
Plant .. 334,853 226,805 289,214
Shares in
other cos. 130,346 183,240 179,497
Debtors .. 62,891 246,379 276,372
Stocks .. 7,698
Cash .. 17,700 822,246 196,883
Intangibles 1,062,475 1,508,279 1,514,750
To meet the outlay on theatres,
carry an extra £29,993 debtors
and reduce liabilities by a net
£69,504, the board used undistri-
buted profits and drew £126,363
from cash balances.
To help breast the rising
tide of expenses, the board is
gradually taking over the Con-
fectionary-vending rights in a
number of its theatres. Some in-
creases in admission charges
have also been allowed by price-
control since the close of last
accounts; possibilities of relief
in this direction are limited not
only by official controls, but by
the elasticity of theatregoers’
attendance.
The £55,000 required annually
to pay Australian shareholders
has been very comfortably
covered in recent years. The A
and B prefs. have net tangible
cover of 85s. 7d. and 58s. 4d. re-
spectively on book-values. At
current price of 30s. the As yield
4.7 p.c., while the Bs at 245. yield
5 p.c.
Satupulo, N.L.
This Melbourne - controlled
co.’s 130,000 c.y.-a-month Werf-
Conrad dredge, Operating at
Takuapa, Western Siam, was not
worked during the occupation.
The property was repossessed at
end March, 1948, but owing to
delivery difficulties and shortage
of skilled labor the dredge was
not floated out of the dock-site
until Dec. 27 last, and didn’t
reach the working-face until
Jan. 6, 1949. Work has since
been retarded by water and labor
difficulties. Just before the
occupation there was about
40,000,000 c.y., bored to average
0.561 b. t.o. and assaying approx.
75 p.c. metal measured up. A
recheck of the payable area is
to be made as soon as possible.
At end March, 1948, current
assets totalled £36,127 and cur-
rent liabilities, including pref.
div., £12,151. The co.’s claim for
£170,417 for war losses and re-
habilitation, against which
£46,841 had been advanced at
end 1948, has yet to be officially
assessed. The £159,300 of paid
capital is in £1 shares, of which
10,500 are 10 p.c, cumulative par-
ticipating, In 1940 and 1941 the
prefs. received ss. and the ords.
3s. a share. On ’Change the
price of the ords. fell from
17s. 7d. at end Nov. to 14s. 4d.
a month later. Buyers recently
offered 11s., with sellers stand-
ing off at 20s.


ABORGINALITIES
“Wippegong”: Milking-time, and the
cows are straggling down toward the
shed. Old Brindle is leading, having
butted the others into their usual sub-
ordinate positions at her rear as they
entered the lane. She isn’t hungry, so the
lush rye-grass around her shanks is passed
untouched, but a drink would be accept-
able, so she takes the track to the trough,
and so bears down upon a magpie intent
upon dragging crickets from beneath a
common object possibly dropped there by
Brindle herself. The bird emits the
squawk that usually causes lesser fowl to
sheer off, but to Brindle that is a tongue
unknown and she halts not in her stride,
neither does she stop. Maggie, unused to
such unconcern, repeats the challenge,
but, seeing considerable bulk looming
closer, sets off at a smart walk ahead of
the beast, hurling a running fire of in-
vective back over his shoulder; but even
an aged cow’s walk is faster than that of
a magpie, so Feathers breaks into a run
and raises his wings at the ready just in
case the old girl should suddenly spring.
Thus they travel down the track to the
trough, when Maggie, no longer followed,
folds his wings, looks the menace up and
down, mutters something uncompli-
mentary and swaggers off. A silly sight;
but the exhibition of truculence, over-
confidence and indifferent judgment of
pace goes far to explain the many patches
of dry, flattened black-and-white feathers
plastered along our main highways.
» * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “Yair,” Mat said. “I
pushed up into that Hungerford country
one time lookin’ for toil, but somethin’
I see up there changed me mind an’ I
headed back t’ Bourke mighty quick. I’m
camped be Youngerinna Bore, an’ one
momin’ I’m pokin’ round, enjoyin’ the
breeze, when way across the plain I spot
a bloke on horseback. He’s gallopin’
this way an’ that, as though him or the
horse was drunk. He’d slow down, then
gallop off again an’ swing right an’ left
an’ back again. I watch him, not bein’
able t’ make it out, an’ gettin’ a bit
windy because it looks as though he’s
done his nut. All this time he’s gettin’
closer, an’ presently I see he’s chasin’
somethin’ small. He gets closer an’ it’s
a bit o’ paper, dodgin’ about in the
wind. Thinkin’ it must be a cheque or a
quid-note or a letter from his girl, I
walk towards him. Then the paper gets
caught on a bit o’ dillon-bush an’ he
falls out o’ the saddle an’ grabs it an’
shoves it in his pocket. Then he sees
me an’ rides up. His horse is bio win’ an’
so is he. ‘ ’Day,’ he puffs, ‘Good-day,’
I says. ‘Didja lose y’r cheque or some-
thin’?’ He looks puzzled for a minute,
then he gives a grin. ‘Aw, that!’ he
says. ‘No. It’s a label off a jam-tin.
Sighted it back there about a mile.
Gripes, it took catchin’.’ I looks at him
hard but he ain’t barmy. ‘You got a
jam factory?’ I asks. He grins sort o’
bashful; then he says, ‘Gripes, mate,
out here y’ got t’ have somethin’ new t’
read now an’ then,’ So I reckon that
Hungerford country could manage with-
out me.”
♦ ♦ * ♦
“Hanko”: A swim (with the current)
along the channels of the M.I.A.
(Riverina, N.S.W.) was a lesson in natural
history. Many’s the time I’ve floated
quietly through a flock of teal and black-
duck. Lizards would be seen basking
on the thistle-covered banks ; tiny skinks,
frill-necks and goannas. Snakes, too, and,
strangely enough, mostly copperheads,
a species whose habitat doesn’t extend far
into N.S.W. But the highlight of the
voyage were the wood-ducks (maned
geese) in groups along the banks. Stand-
ing always on one leg they’d peer at and
gossip of the strange object drifting by.
At times I would yell and flail the water,
whereat the flurry of the ducks to be-
come quickly airborne would have me
almost derelict, and despite thistles I’d
have to cast myself ashore. Incidentally,
in half a lifetime spent in the bush I’ve
never seen a wood-duck afloat on water.
• ♦ * *
“Zake”: What has happened these
days to Eve’s old friend, who —except
for such as the rock python—rarely
tapes over Bft.? Most red-bellied blacks,
for instance, don’t grow beyond that
length. Yet even early this century a
Cooktown (N.Q.) man killed a black
which was taped at 17ft. Bin., and in
1908, between Acheron and Taggerty
(Vic.), one was killed which reputable
witnesses swore went 18ft. The record
is a black killed on the Hawkesbury
(N.S.W.). It was 22ft. long and was
the victim of a settler named Fleming
in 1826. According to the evidence,
Fleming hadn’t immediately preceding
this event been drinking a pocketful
of the currency then in vogue.
* * * *
“Carlyle”: A Vic. wheat cocky with a
district reputation for gazing long on
“ Well, you said to fill them to capacity."
his coin of the realm before parting there-
with was well into harvesting operations
on a 16-bag crop when he noticed a
spring-washer fall, from the header. He
stopped the machines and began a hands-
and-knees search. This proving fruitless,
he decided to move the machines and
burn the patch of stubble. It went up
beautifully—so did 100 acres of wheat
alongside it. But he recovered the penny
washer.
* * * »
“Doggo”: The manly sport of dog-
racing cannot thrive without cruelty;
dogs must be “blooded” and made
keen to win by being given live
rabbits to tear to pieces. I’ve seen
“sports” holding up live bunnies,
belly outwards, to their dogs to maul,
and a keen “sportsman” wouldn’t dare
put a bob on a dog that hadn’t recently
had a kill. On training evenings at many
dog-courses, live rabbits, held up by
leather thongs, are dragged squealing
along the track, their hind-legs occa-
sionally touching the ground, until the
dogs are released from their boxes. Most
race-tracks are liberally plastered with
notices forbidding the bringing of live
bait into their enclosures, but few heed
them. There are even so-called women
devotees of the “sport” who train their
own dogs on these lines.
* * * *
“Young Slim”: Those sergeant-ants
(B. 19/1/’49) are more than capable of
concerted action. There is a nest of
them in my backyard, so to safeguard
my now-toddling daughter from possible
injury should she stumble across them I
have been trying to wipe out the colony.
First move was to dig out the hill, which
was about a foot high. No sooner had
the extra-long-handled shovel touched it
than a dozen or more raced from differ-
ent holes and took a hold on the blade,
and no amount of bashing against the
ground shifted one of them. When this
manoeuvre failed, three or four scouts
started off to find the source of the
trouble, and soon came across my san-
dalled feet, whereupon one returned to
the battered nest while the others stood
off, opening and closing their quarter-
inch nippers alarmingly. Keeping a wary
eye on the scouts I poked a long stick
into the hole revealed by the anthill’s
removal; it came out swarming with
inch-long fighters whose claws were
buried into the wood; and a squad
moved in a direct line to my feet. I
dropped the stick and bolted. But for
all his toughness the sarge has a weak-
ness in direct contrast to his aggressive
nature: He cannot stand even the weak
solution of D.D.T. sold commercially.
I've given him and the common blue
bull-ant a dose simultaneously, and in
several tests found the little fellow alive,
albeit squirming, long after his aggressive
big brother is curled up like a possum’s
tail.
« * * *
“Übet”: The reason “M.U.R.” (B.
19/1/’49) didn’t recognise an ordinary
wombat when he met one is because
wombats are mainly nocturnal, and even
in country badly infested they are seldom
seen unless one goes after them. Strongly
built, they have little difficulty ripping
holes in the netting-fences, and believe
me, an old one can sometimes be hard
to catch. One veteran that has lived for
years in a rough gully where three
properties join has a lot to answer for
some day. With rock-walled homes in a
creek bank, and huge excavations in each
property, he lives part-time in each;
wary of traps, he tears up fresh holes
en route. The few times he has walked
into a trap he pulled out again with
apparently little trouble. With one
property badly rabbit-infested, and the
others cleaned carefully and cursefully
at regular intervals, that wombat has
created what approaches a neighbor-
hood feud. Each owner disclaims respon-
sibility for the brute, and wishes the other
bloke would keep his highly-adjectived
wombat home. Yes, and just because
I’m the mug that’s continually coursing
the blasted thing with fumigant and
mattock, that doesn’t make him mine.
* * * *
“Bo”: A life-assurance salesman I
know is prepared to swear solemnly on
his printed list of policies and premiums
to the truth of this. In his nor’-west
N.S.W. district he was approaching a
farmhouse the owner of which he hoped
to “write up” for a good figure, and he
noticed the cows with their udders almost
swinging on the ground and vocally
laying complaints about their state of
neglect. Waiting hungrily around the
kitchen-door were a mob of fowls, sterns
up and heads down, optimistically pros-
pecting the dust. There was not a sign
of human activity. His knock at the
locked door brought no response. He
was puzzled, for the chap on the next
block had assured him that the cocky
would simply have to be there. On his
second circumnavigation of the house
he noticed a woman peering fearfully at
the slit of the slightly-moved window-
curtains. He held up his book and
pointed to it. She moved out of sight.
A few minutes later she opened the
window an inch and slipped a piece of
paper out. The canvasser read: “Accord-
in to the woman ritin in the paper the
stars says its perticulily bad for all forms
of activity today, so were not takin
chances. Call back tomorrer.”
* * * *
“S.E.”: Dad dropped the groceries on
the table and flopped down to watch as
Mum began putting them away. The
latest 41b. of sugar from the store
wouldn’t fit into the tin, and with a
chuckle she stacked it carefully out of
sight in the bottom of the dresser.
“You’re mad, gettin’ so much sugar ev’ry
week, Mum,” he protested. “Neither’ve
us take sugar much. Y’ ought t’ leave it
for them Wintersons —they use it f’r
everything, an’ never have enough.” “Oh,
I don’t know, Dad,” Mum defended her-
self. “The fruit season will soon be on,
and you know how we love a bit of
home-made jam.” “The fruit season?
Yair, but cripes, we got no fruit. Mum,”
he reminded. “You know as well as I
do the trees won’t grow on this place,
with no water.” Mum said no more, but
continued to collect her weekly share of
what sugar was available, and added it
to the secret hoard. The other day she
visited the Wintersons. Calling to pick
her up late in the afternoon, Dad found
her grasping two large buckets of fruit.
“Put these in the truck, will you, Dad?”
she beamed triumphantly, “Mrs. Winter-
son says there’s not enough sugar for
jam these days, and they will only go to
waste if she doesn’t give them to some-
body.”
* * * *
“Billjim”: Believed to be unique in
Australia are two dairy cows in the
Nelson (Vic.) district owned by Messrs.
W. Pell and B. Proudfoot, that are fed
on a diet of raw fish. The carnivorous
habit is not unknown elsewhere, how-
ever ; sheep on the Faroe Islands are
regularly fed on a similar diet.
* * * *
“Boogong”: The new carpenter on
the job was aware of the close scrutiny
of the leading hand and played up
accordingly. Nailing weatherboards on
one side of the hut, he selected a nail
carefully and drove it home. Next he
rejected four nails before he found one
to suit, tossing them on the ground be-
hind him. Inspecting each nail meticu-
lously, it was only a few minutes before
Chips had the ground littered with re-
jects. The l.h. picked up several and
examined them. “Hey, what’s the idea?”
he asked. “What’s wrong with these
nails?” “Heads on the wrong end,” re-
plied Chips gravely. The l.h. didn’t bat
an eyelid. “Well, save ’em, y’ blasted
dill,” he roared. “They’re for the other
side of the hut.”
# ♦ * ♦
“One J.”: Permit me to remark that,
notwithstanding an Abo.-page writer’s
dismal prophecy of disaster (B. 12/1 /’49),
W.A. farmers are not growling more than
usual. The wheat harvest at 35j million
bushels is more than a million bushels
better than last season’s yield. The pre-
diction of disastrous drought based on
the antics of ants and the cock-a-doodle-
dooing, or whatever it was, of black
cockatoos was badly astray. Creepers,
crawlers and flyers no doubt know
enough to come in out of the rain, or
come out into the rain, as their different
natures dictate, or may be able to sense
a change in weather conditions a short
time ahead, but as long-distance prophets
they rank with Old Moore, the week-end
press-astrologer, the oldest inhabitant and
the village idiot. Away with ’em all!
* * * *
“Billy T”: Five o’clock at the Sydney
Cricket Ground. Morris and Miller are
out, so the crowd begins to drift toward
the gate. There is no mass-movement
from any one spot, but here a bloke rises
from the grass and strolls down to the
circular path, there another leaves his
seat by the fence and steps up over ''the
ones behind him, a couple in the front of
the Hill stand reckon the game is no
longer worth the interruption of this
growing procession and so join it, and the
trickles thus make a steady stream that
moves, close-packed, around behind the
Trumper stand and out of sight. It took
me back to a bleak headland overlooking
Bass Strait. Time, 3 a.m, on a
midsummer night; the moon is set-
ting, and from the burrows where
bedlam reigned at feeding-time a
few hours earlier the mutton-birds are
stirring again. A low muttering had
come from the colony even at the small,
still hours, but now a rising, nagging note
creeps into the avian conversation as the
seagoing foragers receive their instruc-
tions for the day. Then the birds begin to
come out; one from under the marram-
grass at our feet, another from that clump
of bracken, a couple from the bare sand
between. Nowhere is there congestion
yet, but these stragglers from the inland
burrows soon find a faint track, and that
leads to a clearer one, and this to a well-
beaten sandy strip where birds from a
thousand holes are now jostling in the
same direction. Nearing the sea other
powdery paths join to make a road, and
along this the black stream moves, close-
packed, over the cliff and out of sight.
There the comparison ends. The birds,
airborne as soon as they scamper over
the cliff, fan out, wheel and head out to
sea greeting the sunrise in a clean world
over blue water. The lord of creation
dives for a tram, and if he gets a seat is
leaned, breathed and trodden upon for
his homeward journey; and if he’s too
slow he pays the same exorbitant fare tor
the privilege of hanging on by all fom*
and his teeth.
THE ROAD BY ARAKOON.
By Arakoon the sandy road
Winds up, down, in and out,
And high in twisted eucalypts
The noisy magpies'' shout.
Where buccaneering heath-plants swarm
The low lagoon lies still,
And brassy bands of tallawongs
Clang from a wooded hill.
The silver pencil of the creek
Goes scribbling down the day,
With twists and twirls and curlicues
It writes the miles away.
Flaunt, Christmas bells!
Call, singing creek!
Cry, birds: Oh, golden day!
A shabby fingerpost a-lean
Still beckons us away
Along the ragamuffin road
That romps to Little Bay.
A little bay, a lovely bay,
Blue skies and shiny seas;
The scalloped breakers curve and crash
On sands of yellow cheese.
All turreted, the pastel cliffs
Sheer down in gold and pink
To coral pools and crevices
Where furtive rock-crabs slink.
Stout banksias, shaped by salty winds,
Like mops hung out to dry,
Lean back to clumps of cabbage-palms
Flat-topped below the sky.
A coastal boat, in miniature,
Goes slowly steaming by.
Shout, tomboy wind!
Skim, leggy birds!
Shriek, gulls; Oh, golden day!
The shabby fingerpost a-lean
Will point us back one day,
Along the road by Arakoon
That romps to Little Bay.
N.S.W.
JOAN TIMMS.


“Old-timer”: Who says the back-
country isn’t what it used to be? This
is part of a letter from Bill: “Got back
from Moree after about a month and
then went shearing down south. Was
supposed to stay with the team till
Christmas, but gave it away. It’s a bit
too exciting, so we’re going rabbiting or
harvesting. The shed started with about
15 shearers—about 35 men all told. In
two days we were down to six shearers
and six rousies. We got a couple of hot
days just before the start and most of
the mob got on the spree. The hang-
over was too much, and they all went back
to town. They started drifting back in
twos and threes, the last lot about a week
later. Just got into our swing when an
old chap died on the board and we lost
two days getting him inquested and
buried. Nobody knew his right name or
where he came from. The police couldn’t
trace him, I reckon he’s been knocking
about for years under an assumed name.
Then the butcher got in the horrors. He
got full on plonk, petroi-and-kero or
something. The boss rode to the shed
on his favorite steed and tied it up out-
side. The butcher jumped aboard and
lit out at full gallop. A pack of jackeroos
and station-hands set after him. You
never saw anything better in a wild-west
picture. They chased him about five
miles, then he put the horse at a big
gully and both finished in the bottom of
it. They brought the butcher round with
a dose of painkiller and snakebite cure
and by that time the police arrived and
collected him. Then a brawl started in the
shed over sending for the police, and it
became all-in —fists, boots and what-
have-you—so me and the cobbers
chucked our gear in the old bus and
floated while the war was still on.”
♦ * * *
“Solitude”: We’d monogrammed a few
strays in a rough bush-yard, and, making
for our nags, found they’d started back
without us. Result was a four-mile walk
uphill in the heat before they were over-
taken. Next day, recalling the incident,
I was bewailing the hoof-work when
Seventyfiver broke in. “G’on, it was
awright f’r you,” he growled. “How’d
y’ like it with the foot I had, where that
flamin’ bullick walked on me? Lorst the
big-toenail, an’ the rest o’ the toe was
so bruised an’ squashed in I weren’t sure
for a bit it weren’t broke.” “Yes, I
remember that mad-headed bullock,” I
returned, “Think you should have some-
thing done for your foot?” “Aw, it’s
awright now” he scoffed at the sugges-
tion. “It was that walkin’ on it yes’d’y.
Four flamin’ miles. Man might easy ’a’
lorst his hoof or somethin’.” He paused
to dwell on the awful prospect. “Gripes,
I’d ’a’ ’ated t’ go hoppin’ on one foot all
me life.” “Well, I could have caught the
nags and brought yours back,” I pointed
out. “Why didn’t you yell out?” “How
could I?” he challenged. “How’d I
know? Gripes, I never knew the thing
wus done till I took me flamin’ boot off
las’ night an’ seen it! ”
* * * / *
“Esk D.”; The night is wet, cold and
dismal, the red, loamy rise near Harker’s
greasy and hard to navigate, and Joe is
called from his nest at half-past two to
hook the horse on to the third car in
a couple of hours. A mild little bloke
Joe, but he has had just about enough for
the moment. He eyes the young couple
sourly and bellows “G’dap” at old
Nugget. At the top of the rise, where
he unhitches the dragchain, he reaches
out for the proffered ten-bob, then shoves
it in his pocket with a grunt. “Look
’ere,” he says belligerently. “I don’t
mind doin’ this f’r anyone who’s got t’
travel this road f’r bizness, but it’s pretty
’ot bein’ expected t’ hop out f’r someone
who’s bin tearin’ round fT pleasure. Y’
bin t’ a darnce, haven’t y’.?.” “Y-yairs,”
the youth stammers. “But it ain’t as if
we’re on the way t’ the dance. We’re
goin’ home now t’ git ready fr the
milkin’. Y’ wouldn’t call that travellin’
f’r pleasure.” “No, I s’pose that’s diff’-
rent,” Joe admits. “ ’Ere” —and the half-
note flutters into its previous owner’s lap.
“I don’t charge in cases like that.” The
car glides slowly off and Joe stands
ruffling his thatch, puzzled at the girl
rocking with the giggles as they go.
» * * *
“Aperist”: When those bees stripped
the lacquer from that utility (B. 19/1/’49)
“You'll cop it from the chief! I DON’T taste like a fricassee!”
they were looking for results produced by
a minimum of work. The final product
would not be wax but propolis. Name
derives from the Greek; pro, before;
polls, a city ; for the Greeks, even as their
athletes found a stimulant in training in
the “honey of Hymettus,” noticed that
the bees gathered the gum exuded by the
buds of the wild poplar, using it as a
gluey cement with which to stop up cracks
and crevices which might havfe afforded
an invader, notably ants and moths, entry
to their city. In Australia, home of the
gum-tree and the wattle. Apis finds an
abundance of gum, but that does not
prevent it from raiding any convenient
source of supply which will yield the sub-
stance or a substitute with the minimum
of exertion. Instances have been recorded
where the partly - melted tyres of a
burnt-out car have been prospected by
the ever-busy insect, with the obvious
idea of laying in a stock of propolis while
the going was good.
* ♦ * *
“Danny B.”: Uncle Jim is one of those
anxious old blokes who generally get
there an hour early to avoid being 30
seconds late. Two-thirty, Charlie said, yet
here it was only two o’clock and Charlie
was backing out of the city parking area
and heading north for home. Uncle Jim
was just coming out of the hamburger
joint. “Hey, Charlie, yer damn’ fool.
Wait for me!” he roared, and sprang
into action as the cream utility jostled
in and joined the traffic. At the first inter-
section the lights were against Charlie
and with Uncle Jim. He gained a bit
of ground but not enough. At the
second he was bounding through the
traffic like a frenzied kangaroo. “Hey,
“No nonsense, now, George.”
Charlie!” came in a loud and urgent
entreaty. Uncle Jim had visions of hav-
ing to borrow his rail-fare back to Tun-
nabutta when the utility stopped. Uncle
Jim sprang on to the running-board,
“What the —er G’day, mister,” he
stuttered as a stranger poked his head
out. “These flamin’ cars all look alike,”
he snarled as he turned and headed south
again. He was late, of course. “Where’ve
y’ bin?” demanded Charlie when Uncle
Jim limped into sight. The truant climbed
aboard and thankfully took his boots off.
“Aw, I just went for a bit of a stroll,”
he said.
* * * *
“R.A.A. Sargent”: If “Howie Wing”
(B. 26/1/’49) will round up his friend
Basil and transport him to a location
about midway along and a furlong and
a half south of the Madang airstrip he
will find the daddy of all home-made
windmills —at least it was still there when
I last saw it in late 1944. It is also an
entrant for the lightest mill ever built,
being constructed from dura sheet and
spars salvaged from the many kites the
“cunning cove” was forced to abandon
there. It was about an Bft. fan geared
with Mitsubishi timing-gears, and saved
the gunners who built it hours of water-
pumping fatigues. Sole Australian com-
ponents were a foot-valve, 2in. semi-
rotary pump, some piping and a lot of
ingenuity.
« ♦ ♦ *
“Ida D.”: As with “rodeo” (B.
26/1/’49) another word used wrongly is
“barbecue,” which really means a whole
carcass cooked in a previously-heated
pit, on the same principle as we cook a
damper in the ashes. What is termed a
barbecue here is an “asado” —meat
roasted on a spit, or slanting iron rods,
over hot coals. It takes about 40 minutes
properly to cook a spread-out lamb
carcass, which should be occasionally
sprinkled with salted water. An asado
is a standard article on hunting picnics,
and is always offered to important visitors
from the capital to the southern estancias
in Patagonia. A variation of a barbecue
is carne con quero—meat cooked in its
hide, on top of but not covered by hot
coals. The meat is delicious, and when
cold it jellies like brawn. Patagonia has
taken on many European ways since my
time there, but I hear from my brothers
that these national dishes still remain.
* * * *
“Telarb”: Torres Straits islanders have
a claim concerning the intelligence of the
sucker-fish, designated “clever-fish” in
those parts. The elders never tire of
boasting of it, and the surest way to buy
into a scrap is to doubt their veracity.
First catch your sucker-fish. Then in “a
very special” way you pierce his back
below the spine with a special instrument
and through the hole you then thread a
line, knot off and toss your sucker-fish
overboard. The clever-fish knows imme-
diately what is expected of him, and
mooches off hunting for another sucker,
in this instance a turtle. Having clamped
himself on to the carapace, he signals
back the O.K. and you then proceed to
pull in your turtle. This wise piscatorial
bloke will also catch you a shark, but
there’s a special drill for that. When I
asked for a demonstration X received an
indulgent smile for the apparently weak-
minded “marakai,” and they explained
that the present generation has not the art
of its forebears.
♦ * * ♦
“Bogaduck”: It was hot and still, with
dust spirals rising from the fallows at
intervals; suddenly I heard the rushing
sound which indicates that a whirlwind
is forming close at hand, and saw it
moving across the lucerne-patch. No
dust was rising, the lucerne having been
irrigated on the previous day, and the
whirlwind was revealed only by a few
bits of straw spiralling upward and the
flattening of the lucerne. A bit of paper
moving ahead of the baby tornado
alarmed a mob of sparrows feeding on
the ground ; they shot towards the shelter
of a hedge, probably thinking the thing
flying overhead was a hawk, and a second
later the whirlwind sucked them up. It
presented a weird sight, those couple of
hundred small birds flying flat-out but
being carried around in the opposite
direction by the force of the spinning
column of air; one spag caught in the
centre of the whirlwind shot up several
hundred feet. As the willy-willy roared
on through the scrub the birds were
released when they made straight for the
sanctuary offered by the hedge.
♦ * ♦ *
“Vamac”: “Nerida” (B. 26/1/’49) goes
only a bit of the way to show what
brainy little blighters are the green tree-
ants of N.Q. Their teamwork is perfect.
In building their leaf-nests only live grow-
ing foliage, in situ, is used. This is twisted
and bent to their purpose. To do this a
great cluster of workers will pile up on
the tip of a leaf or small twig. If their
combined weight isn’t enough to pull it
down they connect a live chain of ants
to their objective, and then haul on the
chain. When the leaf is in position it is
held there until the sealer-gang with the
larvae have done their job. In tree-top
road transport, too, they will bridge a
gap of some 6in. by this chain-gang
method. Again, in their forays there is
fine teamwork. I watched a raid on a
nest of the large and formidable jumper-
ant. Here the attackers indulged in no
mad rushing hither and yon, but calmly
and methodically the little fellows went
about the job. One by one, with a pale-
green pigmy at the tip of each leg, the
jumpers were spreadeagled and borne
aloft swearing horribly. Malaya has a
tree-ant identical with ours except for
the color of his pants, which are red in-
stead of pale-green,
* * * *
“Bardie”: “Jimmy Rogan is a funny
coot all right,” complained Harry the
horsebreaker. “He don’t speak t’ me any
more. When Jimmy wanted a new hack
he came t’ me an’ asked f’r me t’ keep
an eye out fT one that wouldn’t pull back
when he cracked the whip. After a while
I got a piebald nag that I could guarantee
would never pull back. He was very
pleased an’ sparred up the 20 quid I
asked. Coin’ round Turner’s cuttin’ we
picked up half a dozen steers, an’ Jimmy
tried a whipcrack. The nag bolted. It
was a mile down the road before he
pulled him up. ‘Hey,’ he says t’ me when
I catch up. ‘Does he do that ev’ry time
y’ crack the whip?’ ‘Yair,’ I tell him.
‘Well, I want me money back,’ he says.
‘Like fun,’ I says. ‘Y’ wanted a hack
that never pulls back when y’ crack a
whip. That ’un always bolts. Y’ c’n git
a refund when he pulls back.’ ”
♦ * ♦ *
“Naturala”: One of the oddities of
natural life is that insects, and notably the
ants, have no conception, and therefore
no fear, of fire. Of all the continents
when in primitive form Australia was
easily the most burned-over. The first
Europeans on arrival fouod forests well
pitted with charred stumps, indicating
where fire had raged, while accounts from
the same time tell of vast volumes of
smoke rolling skyward. For everywhere
the aboriginal employed fire as a method
of hunting, burning the forest so as to
drive out snakes, bandicoots and kan-
garoos. Yet, strangely, on areas (notably
in s.-w. Westralia) swept by fire from
time immemorial and still periodically
swept, there lives a small ant, numbered
in millions, which builds a house above-
ground, and, odder still, in areas most
susceptible to fire, where the sheoak
covers the ground with its dry needles.
It is these needles that the ant uses to
build a kind of igloo with a base diameter
of about lOin. and a height of from 7in.
or Sin. At normal times this structure
teems with ants. Bone-dry and ignitable
by a spark, these homes whiff away into
nothingness as the bushfire passes. The
mortality must be immense, for an ex-
amination of the burnt-over ground will
reveal no sign of life. Yet a season later
the bush will be again full of these dwel-
lings, all awaiting destruction.
CORROBOREE-GROUND.
Here in the perfumed silence,
Not far from the bunya trees,
Is a place which knew the frenzy
Of great corroborees.
While stars in their bright battalions
Looked down from the ageless sky
And the vain moon scanned her face
In the pools that she passed by;
When the dingoes were all howling
And the curlews wailed aloud,
The didgery-doo’s long moaning
Lent joy to the naked crowd.
Then weird and deep were their chantings
In the firelight’s brazen glare
As they clapped and stamped to the rhythm
The lubra’s sticks clicked there.
In slow tired flight the crane
Now cleaves his way through the dusk
Rich with the flowering gums
And the fragrance of the musk.
Where the water laves the scrub-vine
And the black ducks quietly swim,
Three tall ibis are standing
On a dead tree’s only limb.
And to them the creek is singing
The same sweet native song
It sang to the wild black hunters
When the tribes were fierce and strong.
QUEENSLAND.
M. PAYNE.


7ke Mme-W
■Coxrk cep ter
Pain soothed instantly
BOILS
BROUGHT TO A HEAD
Nature often causes a boil to
come to a head and thus ease
painful misery , . . BUT . . .
doctors agree that moist heat,
coupled with a poultice action.
helps bring bolls to a
head quicker. An
easy, practical way
for you to apply moist
heat is by using
proven, world-famous
ẅ
w
ŵ
PLAN your Estate
for your family’s
protection
IN these days of changing values and high death
duties you will ensure better protection for your
dependents by:
I. Careful planning before your Will is drawn.
11. Providing for the careful management of
your Estate in the best interests of your
dependents after your guiding hand is with-
drawn.
You are invited to call and discuss your Estate
problems with a senior officer of Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited.
The Company has wide experience in the
management of Estates of many different kinds and
sizes. Because its service is perpetual it may be
depended upon to provide alert, efficient manage-
ment in the best interests of your dependents when
required.
If unable to call write for a copy of the booklet
“Your Executor and Trustee,” that describes the
services rendered by the Company —and the charges.
PERPETUAL
TRUSTEE COMPANY LIMITED
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £67,000,000 (the
average Estate being less than
£ 10,000).
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
& OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR.
ẁ
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Frenzied Finance
Canberra “Labor” has yet to
make clear what tax relief it will
grant after July 1 on the
earnings from savings, even
though such property income is
already taxed at a loaded rate
compared with personal-exertion
income, and, in the case of com-
pany income, is taxed doubly—
in the hands of the company and
in the hands of shareholders
when dividends are distributed.
There has been no real relief to
companies since war ended.
And it is not as though com-
panies have been receiving an
enlarged share of the national in-
come as that national income has
inflated following inflation of
prices and costs of most kinds.
On the Government Statistician’s
own figures, the proportion of
national income taken by com-
panies last year was smaller than
in either 1946-47 or in 1938-39.
Wage-earners’ proportions are
up on pre-war figures, and that
is so even when increased
pastoral and professional earn-
ings are taken into account. And
wage-earners, who, with salary-
earners, are handed an average
of 55 p.c. of the national income
(as compared with 10 p.c. to
11 p.c. in the case of companies),
are not subject to the high,
loaded and double taxation that
shareholders in companies have
to bear. It is probably true to
say that, on the average, after
all taxes have been paid, £1 of
company earnings become worth
only 10s. by comparison with the
personal-exertion earnings of the
same recipient.
Mr. Chifley is now engaged in
frenzied finance. He is perturbed
about the future economic posi-
tion of the country—even to the
extent of being forced to ask
trade-unionists for greater pro-
duction some years after other
people had suggested the urgent
necessity for this —but he has
also an election to fight this year
and his socialisation plans to
accomplish. Thus his talk about
the danger of inflation and his
requests to the people to save
rather than spend conflict oddly
with tax relief favoring spenders
instead of the savers, with his
taking of an army of people
away from productive work and
putting them into bureaucratic
service, and with his discourage-
ment of private productive enter-
prise generally.
Any politically honest Govern-
ment at a time of crisis such as
this—and a grave economic and
social crisis: undoubtedly does
confront us —would endeavor to
enforce an economic policy that
was cohesive and consistent, aim-
ing at defeating inflation and re-
storing productivity to the nation.
But there is no consistency in
“Labor’s” economic policy,
unless it be the never-tiring
energies directed towards sociali-
sation at any cost, as illustrated
by the banking case. “Labor”
alternately asks people to be-
come investors and then spurns
them, or blackguards them and
then appeals to them. It implores
people to spend, not to save—
and then reverses its attitude.
It “will not crucify the workers,”
or even admonish them, when
they are engaged in wanton
strikes, but, in general terms, it
pleads for more production, and
is very worried- —politically—
about coal. And though it has
sought to buy the votes of the
numerous lower-income earners
with its tax concessions, it has
seen to it that any person on the
income of a Cabinet Minister —
around £2OOO a year—has not
missed out when there are any
concessions going, though in-
comes in the higher brackets are
given short shrift.
One result of Canberra
“Labor” policy has been the de-
cline in the investment market
in recent months. Though mone-
tary savings of the people as a
whole continue to mount, the
proportion available for invest'
ment is shrinking. People who al-
ready hold investments are find-
ing that their income is being re-
duced by specially heavy taxa-
tion, and that, in any case, they
are not being compensated, in
their dividends, for the increasing
cost of living. More and more
people are finding that housing
costs, replacement of worn-out
motor-cars, etc., are absorbing
their capital and preventing their
supporting new industrial invest-
ments as they become available.
And this in spite of the fact that
inflation is robbing bank savings
of their buying-power, which is
something that an investment in
“It's 9 o'clock, Mr. Dooley—shall I open the office?"
industrial equities would nor-
mally preserve.
Production is the factor which
would bring economic salvation
to Australia. But the Chifley
Government’s economic policy is
one that discourages investment
in new machinery of production,
draws manpower away from
productive enterprise, and has
furthered the aims of industrial
disruptionists. Chifley eco-
nomics, as they are practised, are
the economics of disaster, to the
wage-earner and the bank-
depositor as much as to the in-
dustrialist and investor.
Bradford Cotton
Bradford Cotton rights had a
brisk turnover in Sydney and
Melbourne last week, the
price firming from 7s. 6d.
to Bs. 2d. There are 564,871
ord. shares offered, in the
ratio of one for two, at a
premium of 13s. a share. With
their application those taking up
rights must send £1 a share (half
capital, half premium), and the
remaining 13s. will be called up
before September, 1949.
“The plant and machinery for
which the new capital is required
will commence to arrive in Aus-
tralia within the next month, and
it is expected that further con-
signments will be received during
the remaining months of the cur-
rent year,” say the directors,
adding: “The new machinery
will be used in the manufacture
of a class of cotton textiles
which your directors have reason
to believe will find a ready
market in this country,”
Without the new plant, the
board says that turnover for the
current period is slightly higher
than for the same part of last
year, and all-round production
of the mills has shown a gradual
tendency to increase, though
labor is still insufficient to work
the plant to capacity. To get
over labor difficulties one of the
main Sydney mills is being
moved to the country. The
board reports that “there still
exists a shortage of cotton tex-
tiles in this country, and this
applies to the products which are
now being manufactured by the
co. or will be produced in the
very near future.”
At a total cost of 41s. each
(rights at Bs.), Bradford ords.
will yield £4 17s, 6d. per cent.,
when fully paid, on a 10 p.c.
div. basis.
North Coast Steam
North Coast Steam, like so
many other concerns in the Aus-
tralian shipping industry, has
struck “poverty amidst plenty”
—the “Labor” kind of “plenty”
that is based on paper money
and payroll form of “full
employment.” The demand for
shipping services has never been
greater; but the slow turn-
round of ships in port insisted
upon by Com.-ridden waterside
unions, rising costs and freights
fixed at a low level by
the Prices Branch have com-
bined to take most of the profit
out of coastal shipping services.
In the year to June 30, 1948,
North Coast Steam earned a net
profit of £12,258 (2.8 p.c. on
capital), after allowing £lO,OOO
for depreciation, and paid a 6
p.c. div., to meet which reserves
were tapped for £14,364. During
the current year the co. has been
running its fleet on its own ac-
count, Government charters hav-
ing terminated in October. But
no interim div. was declared last
month, whereas 3 p.c. was
handed out in January, 1948.
1948.
The market for North Coast
shares has fallen heavily; as re-
cently as 1947 there were sales
at 355. 6d. (previously, in 1940,
quotes were up to 475. 6d.),
whereas last week the level was
around 235, 3d, At that figure
they are worth attention for
long-term holding. Net tangible
backing is 255. lid. a share on
book-values, and capital is more
than covered by liquid assets.
Ship property appears to be
very conservatively valued.
Two big—very big—share-
issues tipped for the market
during 1948 have still to come
forward. One is 8.H.P., the
other Courtaulds. B.H.P. is
probably waiting on the oppor-
tunity to get its tinplate and
sheet-steel plant made and de-
livered, and possibly still negoti-
ating with the Treasury as to
terms of issue. Courtaulds, in
London, do not yet appear to
have definitely decided on
where to establish a rayon-
extracting factory in the Com-
monwealth. Prior to McGirr
they had an idea that N. S. Wales
would suit.


e Ute
Union Bank
ob Australia Limited
( Incorporated in England )
Jt i 5 the
traditional policy
oj the Union (UanL
to
yive
personal Service to
every customer.
OF
At/J
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
&
a
6
ft
?
U
&
/
<?
6<
BREWED AND BOTTLED BY TOOTH & CO. LIMITED
MAKERS OF GOOD BEER SINCE 1835
■'•vH
v ';;. ’ ■ - - \
K8.f8.90
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
A service at St. Martin-in-the-
Fields and a corroboree on the
8.8. C. “1 ig h t programme”
brought Australia Day to the
notice of those who either hap-
pened to be in Trafalgar-square
in the morning of who chose to
stay up late at night. The Aus-
tralians taking part in this all-
white corroboree included the
Mayoress of 1000-year-old St.
Albans, and a round dozen of
familiar names from the stage,
screen, concert-hall, radio and
ballet.
The public library in one
western suburb anticipated the
anniversary by a good week. A
poster, bearing an etching of the
outback and a bush ballad, was
flanked by bookshelves given
solely to Australian works. The
librarian says that migration con-
siderations have caused an in-
crease in the demand for books
about the Commonwealth,
especially for those dealing with
life in the backblocks. After
thorough inquiry, he is still un-
able to identify the author of the
bush ballad he quotes ; it begins:
“Dust on the old bush track.”
Sir Larry and Sir Don have
much in common. Both have re-
turned to the countries of their
birth in honor and triumph.
Each has already passed into
legend' in the other’s country
as well as in his own. Voca-
tionally, the actor has the advan-
tage, since in his art, exacting
though it can be, a man in the
early forties is still young.
The New Theatre, after a dis-
appointing and, at times, distres-
sing season, has again become the
focus of the theatre world with
the return of the Old Vic. com-
pany. And, surprisingly, this is
the first time that the Oliviers
have acted together in London.
Buildings
To those whose work or
leisure causes them to pass along
the Embankment the activity
over on the south bank is stimu-
lating, which can hardly be said
of some of the other building
operations in central London.
The new Thames wall and the
buildings for the 1951 Festival of
Britain will rid the metropolis of
a drab area very close to its
heart; and, since some return
may be expected, there is justi-
fication for the considerable out-
lay in money and materials. At
times it seems as if the authori-
ties have lost sight of the hard
facts that we are no longer a
wealthy nation, but substantially
a homeless one. Passers-by are
not thrilled to learn that the
girdered skeletons which break
the skyline in Holborn and
Whitehall are intended to ease
the congestion of growing
numbers of bureaucrats.
Much criticism has been
directed to the experiment in
Whitehall Gardens which is esti-
mated will cost the taxpayers
£lOO,OOO. A wine-cellar that was
built by Henry VIII extended
above-ground. As an ancient
monument it had to be pre-
served, but it could not remain
as it was without spoiling the
line of the Government offices
that were to be built above it.
This 70ft. x 30ft. cellar has been
enclosed in a huge gantry, liter-
ally lifted out and parked some
40ft, away. It will later be re-
placed below ground-level.
While new blocks of municipal
flats are to be seen in most
London boroughs they have ab-
sorbed but an insignificant
fraction of those families who
are living in rooms, with parents
and, in many cases, apart. In-
stead of a few show-places,
whose up-to-the-minute gadgets
only mean higher subsidies, a
larger number of less pretentious
homes would be welcome. Short-
age of timber is said to be the
prime cause of inadequate hous-
ing, and is put down to the in-
efficacy of bulk buying.
Letters
George Bernard Shaw con-
tinues to remind us that his 92
years have not allowed him to
fall into dotage. An infirm body
may restrict his movement, and
the incidence of surtax may
deter him from normal profes-
sional activity, but he is not to be
denied an occasional half-
column in the “Times.” Whether
he chooses to discourse upon the
harmonies of Beethoven, the
plight of authors or the unfair-
ness of copyright, the arguments
are those of a man young at
heart and incisive in perception.
In a recent letter he remarked,
with commendable modesty if
quite un-Shavian understatement,
that he was “an author and play-
wright of some note” whose
first book had to wait 50 years
for publication, as “no pub-
lisher would gamble on its
chances of being bought by the
public in remunerative
quantities.” It is to be expected
that many writers will have their
own comments to make.
Neither the rewards nor the
private difficulties of authorship
need be outlined here. The
writer’s road was never an easy
one: but at no time, in all the
long history of English letters,
has it been barricaded across
from hedge to hedge so forbid-
dingly as in these post-war years.
Too - drastic paper - cuts have
brought famine to reader as well
as to author; and recent in-
creased allocations, both for
journals and for books, can bring
only partial relief.
The days are not long past
when aspiring writers came to
London from the whole British
Realm to seek their fortune.
Many had to turn back when
their savings were spent; some
stayed to make a living and, per-
haps, a name ; a considerable few
added to the world’s literature.
The going was hard but the in-
centive was there. London —and
English letters —are no richer for
the present lack of this incentive.
Public Responsibility
The only people who appear to
have been surprised at the find-
ings of the Lynskey tribunal were
the two political witnesses who,
by resignation, had already ad-
mitted their involvement. Mr.
George Gibson, 63-year-old
trade-union pensioner, resigned
from the court of the Bank of
England, and Mr. John Belcher
resigned from his office as Par-
liamentary Secretary to the
Board of Trade in the later days
of the inquiry.
Mr. Gibson has cut a sorry
figure throughout. His cupidity,
his venality, his evasiveness and
his self-evident inadequacy to
fill the positions into which his
political standing had plunged
him have alienated him from
sympathetic regard. Mr. Belcher,
whose keenness and undoubted
talent might have led him to
high political office, is a younger
man by some 20 years; his
courage and later frankness have
brought him a fair share of sym-
pathy. Immediately the report
was out Mr. Gibson resigned
from his £4OOO Electricity Board
chairmanship and, soon after,
from all other public offices. Mr.
Belcher took a little longer in
his withdrawal from Parlia-
mentary life.
This protracted and expensive
clean-up (it will cost the tax-
payers about £10,000) has done
a great deal more than exonerate
the civil service and dispel
rumors of widespread corrup-
tion. It has caused attention to
be directed to the anomalies of
Socialist planning. The British
press, excepting the Socialist
“Daily Herald” and the in-
genious “Daily Worker” (which
contrived to lay the blame on the
capitalist system), had some hard
things to say about the prolifera-
tion of controls. To quote from
the two leading independent
papers will suffice. The “Times’’
deplored the growth of “contact
men,” and declared that the
country will benefit if the inquiry
“gives fresh impulse to the drastic
simplification of administrative
paraphernalia.” The Manchester
“Guardian” said: “The tribunal
has exposed the unhealthy
atmosphere which a too-power-
ful bureaucracy creates, the
temptations put, even before the
most highminded, and the
morbid parasitism which exces-
sive State interference attracts.”
Overseas Trade
Exports for the last quarter of
1948 were much higher than for
any other quarter of the year.
Here is a month-by-month record
of the progress of the export
trade (in millions of pounds
sterling):
£ stg.
1948. million.
January 115
February 122|
March .. 126
April 1261
May 135
June 1391
July 140
August 135£
September 131
October 140
November .. .. ... 147
December 15 1|
The value of exports of United
Kingdom goods during 1948 at
£1583.3 million sterling was £445
million higher than in 1947 and
well over three times th£ 1938
-total. Imports for 1948 totalled
£2079.5 million and were a
peace-time record; re-exports
during the year were £64.5 mil-
lion.
During the first half of 1948
imports exceeded total exports
by £251 million, but in the
second half the adverse balance
fell to £lBl million. Total ad-
verse balance for the year was
£432 million, £165 million less
than in 1947,


I INI
CO
\ 1 il i
9
MAKERS
OF GOOD WINE
FOR MORE THAN;
-A CENTURY —
PERSONAL ITEMS
Somewhere in the lonely north a patrol
of the Territory Mounted is after the
murderer of Raiwala. The abo. chief
had a good friend in Dr. Donald
Thomson, Melbourne anthropologist and
explorer. When Thomson was on recco
work against the Japs Raiwala was, in
effect, his eyes. As special commissioner
for the Government, Thomson lived for
years among the north’s tribes, learning
their languages and customs, and he led
three expeditions into the C. York
region. Once he walked 100 miles to
the coast to reply to a Canberra inquiry—
and carried'a passenger. He’d caught a
snake unknown to science, but as his
camp abois were concerned more with
their stomachs than with the advance of
knowledge the anthropologist was obliged
to lump his catch on the 200-mile trek
with him.
From junior draftsman to one of
Victoria’s leading street-transport con-
sultants in three decades is the record of
Hector Bell, son of Melbourne Tramway
Board’s chairman. He has just finished
an extensive report on Geelong’s trans-
port for his Government, and last year
did the same job for Perth’s system. Mel-
bourne is to have a new tram, the “silent”
P.C.C., in which noise is considerably
reduced by a rubber insert between the
inner and outer wheel-rims. Bell visited
America soon after the war to examine
the new vehicle’s innards at first hand.
The small army of servicemen who
boarded for a time at 112 A.G.H., Green-
slopes (Q.), will agree that the R.S.L.
chose wisely in its latest award of the
body’s highest honor, the Certificate of
Merit and Gold Badge. Mrs. A. F.
Waddell is the winner, by virtue of sus-
tained service to Greenslopes patients.
Born at Charters Towers, she came to
Brisbane in 1913, and during World War
II brought her cheery personality to the
hospital. The matron early realised the
worth of her visits and gave orders that
the hospital was to be open to her day
and night—she hardly missed a night be-
tween 1942-47. She attended every funeral
from the hospital to Lutwyche War
Cemetery, and Young Diggers found a
message for them from her every
Christmas and New Year in the advt.
columns of Brisbane’s dailies. Usually the
award is made at congress, but last week
it was given in Greenslopes’ Red Cross
hall, so that up-patients could witness the
league’s appreciation of the grand old
lady.
Back in Australia in the Shaw Savill
motor-ship Gothic, Captain Richard
Noal, who made his first landfall here in
a square-rigger in 1888, is on his last
voyage. With the R.N.R. in the Kaiser’s
war, he’s been designing Shaw Savill’s
ships for the past 40 years, and is now
the line’s marine superintendent, from
which job he will retire on return to
England.
From an Australian woman in Java:
In a U.N.O. debate on Indonesia Colonel
Hodgson was reported as asking “Exactly who
is this Dr. Beel?” I was presented to Louis
Beel at a reception in Batavia in May, 1947.
Six months later I had a chat with him at the
Hague. He was at that time Prime Minister
of Holland; nowadays I frequently see him at
the Palace in Batavia, where he carries out the
functions of High Representative of the Crown
of Holland in Indonesia.
Louis Beel spent the first 24 years of his
life in Roermond, a small town in Southern
Holland, entered the Government service,
gained a Doctorate in Law at the university of
Nijmegen and became head of the Social
Department in Eindhoven. After the liberation
of Southern Holland the Dutch Government-
in-Exile called him to London and he became
Minister for the Interior in Dr, Gerbrandy’s
Government, retaining the post when Professor
Schermerhorn became Prime Minister. At the
first post-war elections the Catholic party
had an overwhelming majority, and Queen
Wilhelmina asked Dr. Beel to form a Govern-
ment. He did so, and became responsible for
laying the foundations of Holland’s recovery.
After the 1948 elections a composite Govern-
ment was formed under Dr. Drees, and Beel
was chosen as the man to steer the former
Netherlands East Indies —that name was dis-
continued last year with the retirement of the
last Governor-General, Dr. Van Mook—through
the transition period until the Federated States
of Indonesia are deemed capable of looking
after their own affairs.
A list of cases as long as the Law’s
arm awaiting hearing in Melbourne’s
Supreme Court is partly responsible for
the elevation of Arthur Dean, K.C., to the
latest judgeship. The new Judge went to
France with the first A.1.F., and started
practising as a barrister in 1919. He was
made a K.C. in . 1944, and has been
a Warden of Convocation of the Univer-
sity. Publishing works on legal subjects
is his hobby.
Responsible for State delivery of the
new Ford baby, A. F. (“Bunny”) France,
the firm’s Sydney branch manager. He
started selling cars in London after the
Kaiser’s war, which he attended with the
London-Scottish brigade, and came to
Australia in 1926 on doctor’s advice as to
a head-wound collected in France. The
new car, what with shortages of most
things from dollars to gaskets, took a
sizeable effort to produce —another vindi-
cation of the general plaint that the only
thing wrong with this age of materialism
is that there isn’t enough material.
Who’s Who in Australia Contains
no mention of Frederick Matthias Alex-
ander, though this Australian is famous
in more high places than dozens of cele-
brities included in the volume. The
teacher of a doctrine peculiarly his own,
his pupils run into thousands, with some
of the most eminent Englishmen among
them. Sir Henry Irving thanked Alex-
ander for his stage deportment, and Staf-
ford Cripps gives him the credit for his
platform manner. Born in Melbourne
in 1869, Alexander started with a mining
company in the Apple Island, graduated
to a secretaryship in Melbourne and then
became an elocutionist. In the meantime
he had been working out a technique for
co-ordinating thought with action which
he took first to Sydney, and then to
England and U.S. His methods en-
gendered a deal of philosophy, and books
have been written about them. Early
disciples are sometimes met with who are
as fanatical towards him as if he were an
Indian yogi, though actually there is no-
thing mystical about his teaching. Former
pupils recently gave him a party on his
80th birthday.
When J. H. M. Abbott in The Bulletin
a few weeks ago presented a picture of a
Solomons Islands commissioner, he was
writing about the type of man here
diagrammed by Dubois. At present
finishing off six months’ leave in Sydney,
Reg Johnson has been most things in the
New Hebrides and Solomons, from clerk
and accountant to district officer, in
places reminiscent of R. L. Stevenson—
Efate, Tanna, Malekula and Espiritu
Santo. The last-named was a huge U.S.
base in the last scrap, and while there as
a liaison-officer with the Americans
Johnson was the target for a U.S. soldier’s
Garand. The American wanted an intro-
REG JOHNSON, of New Hebrides.
Auction to the nurse Johnson was escort-
ing, but got instead a hefty punch on the
jaw and 25 years’ jail. In a not-uneventful
career, one of the most memorable
occasions arose in 1941, when he got
talking to an Australian and his Chinese
secretary one night in the Vila Club. The
visitor seemed extraordinarily conversant
with affairs in Cathay: he should have
been —he was “Chinese” Donald.
Visiting his wife in Melbourne on long
leave, Captain Richard Allen, who holds
the record among Australian airmen and
stands high in the world field for Atlantic
crossings. He has flown the pond 250
times, has spent 7000 hours in the upper
strata and his total mileage is well over
a million. He got his first taste of fly-
ing in the R.A-A.F. in 1929, when safe
return to earth was something of a
gamble, and in 1932 flew a Moth solo
from England to Australia. He com-
mands a 8.0.A.C. Constellation on the
Montreal-N.Y.-U.K. route.
With a grin as infectious as the
measles, Ted Hammerstein, cousin of
Oscar, who wrote the lyrics, left New
York at two days’ notice to put “Okla-
homa” on its feet in Melbourne. As
soon as the show is launched he intends
to rush away to look after the other
three “Oklahoma” productions —two
in New York and one in London.
Hammerstein is producer, and appa-
rently his mind registers the shows’ runs
photographically—he can tell you that
the New York show was running for five
years, three months and 28 days as at
midnight 12/1/’49, allowing for dif-
ference in zone times. Originally
a cow-puncher,. he drifted into stage
production and possesses a dry
humor reminiscent of Will Rogers.
He breeds cocker spaniels and hopes to
TED HAMMERSTEIN, of “Oklahoma.”
take back a champ, Aussie lady cocker to
look after his American boy champ, of
the breed. Of the new production,
which opens on February 19, he says
simplicity is its keynote.
From a colleague for 20 years:
Loyal employee, tireless colleague and good
citizen, Edward Herbert Dudley, sub-editor of
the “Australian Woman’s Mirror,” dead last
week after a short illness, died virtually in the
middle of a sentence. He left a pile of un-
finished copy on his desk before the New Year
week-end. He did not return.
Youngest in the large family of a South
Australian schoolteacher, he came of a family
that won titles (including a dukedom) and
preferment, and lost a few heads, under Tudors
tiom Henry VII to Mary I. Even today the
family draws a tiny income from land granted
it in Ireland by Henry VII.
In his early twenties, after education at St.
Peter’s, Adelaide, Dudley went roving. Work-
ing his way to Canada, he kept school and did
newspaper work in Quebec and Nova Scotia.
He worked his passage to London in a cattle-
boat (his account of which appeared in the
“Wide World Magazine”) and tramped Eng-
land and Ireland looking up relations between
jobs.
In 1906 he was in South Africa. The Zulu
rising broke out, and Dudley enlisted with the
Natal Carabineers and saw the campaign
through. He was one of the few men in
Australia to wear the blue-and-maroon ribbon
of that little-publicised fight, and one of the
fewer still able to boast an assegai wound.
Back in Australia, he took up journalism.
He represented Sydney papers in the then-new
Canberra, edited the “Penny Post” at Goul-
burn, and did service with the “Sydney Morning
Herald.”
He joined the Bulletin Newspaper
Co. in 1926. For 22 years he ran the Service
Section and Advice Bureau (Answers to Corres-
pondents) of the “Australian Woman’s Mirror,”
displaying there a general knowledge and ac-
quaintance with history, Australiana and belles
lettres that left many quiz champions the
merest puff-and-darters.
The last of his family generation, he left a
wife but no family. He was 70.
Presented here is Dr. Stanley Wilkinson,
president of the Australian Dental
Association for the third time and a
first-class man to hold the position when
the Government and the “open-wide”
profession are negotiating the Dental
Health scheme. Caught at the Naval and
Military Club, Melbourne, with his
STANLEY WILKINSON, of the Dental
Association.
glasses off just before the legislation was
brought down, he would be more suit-
ably shown with his coat off when the
Act is proclaimed. He graduated in 1910
and served overseas with the Dental Corps
in the 1914 shindy, later took his D.D.S.
at Pennsylvania, then specialised in ortho-
dontia ; nowadays he spends more time
on the administrative side. As an ardent
fly-fisher, the lure of the whirling dun
and the Dunhill now have' preference
with, him over the moving molars. He
was born 60 years ago at Bright, near the
snowline.
Retired at 55 from g.-m. of the M.L.
War Assets Realisation Board, Brigadier
H. E. Avery, C.M.G., C.B.E. He started
soldiering with the Enzed Regular Army
in 1911, came out of the first scrap a
lieut.-coloqel and stayed in London as his
country’s military rep. Hitler’s war
found him employment as quarter-
master-general and third Army Member
of the M.L, Army Board. A keen
Rugbyite, Avery represented Wellington
and the North Island, and toured Aus-
tralia with, the 1910 team.
The recent sale of Torsdale, a C.Q.
cattle property outside Biloela, winds up
Archer Bros., one of the oldest pastoral
firms in Bananaland. Among the first to
settle on the then-unmapped Fitzroy
River, the family built a slab homestead
beside a lake in the river valley. Leich-
hardt visited it often, and from there he
and Colin Archer explored the Peak
Downs district, a sizeable portion of
which is now under sorghum for the
Food-for-Britain scheme. The pioneers
turned to cattle-raising, and today the
AIA brand is carried by Archer bulls
from the southern border to Cape York.
John Archer now lives in retirement on
Mt. Tambourine, and remembers the
time when not a fence stood on the 100-
odd miles between Gladstone on the coast
and his horse-paddock. Closer-settlement
whittled the vast holding, and Torsdale’s
sale leaves only a few acres with the
family. The name remains—Rock-
hampton honors it. with Mt. Archer,
Archer-street and Archer Park railway
station.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 73, Rev. Brother J. C. Ryan,
a Christian brother who spent most of his 50
years’ teaching in Queensland. Three times
principal of Nudgee College, Brisbane, and also
principal at Charters Towers and Rockhampton,
he was Provincial Bursar for Australia at the
end. .
In Melbourne, at 80, James Bastian Richards,
one-time Prothonotary and Marshal of Vic-
toria’s Supreme Court and its Chief Sheriff.
A player himself in his heyday, he compiled
the Association’s Rules which still govern Vic-
torian junior football.
At Rockhampton, at 68, Henry Griffith, who
probably knew more about the North’s railways
than any man living. He had 30 years in the
territory, went to Rockhampton as general-
manager in 1937, was at one time traffic
superintendent in Brisbane, and retired last
year. He died in his garden.
In Sydney, a month under 92, Arthur
Canaway, K.C. A schoolteacher before ad-
mission to the N.S.W. Bar in 1885, he took
silk in 1911 and practised mainly in the Land
Court. An early worker for Federation, he
disapproved the form it eventually took, and
later published The Failure of Federalism in
Australia and other books advocating a legis-
lative union like that between England and
Scotland.


Women’s Letters
From Melbourne
Mrs. Herbert Leggett, wife of the
U.S. Vice-Consul, was given a farewell
luncheon-party at the Australia by mem-
bers of the executive committee of the
American Women’s Auxiliary to the
Children’s Hospital, prior to her depar-
ture with her family to Yokohama. Mrs,
Leggett has been a member of the
Auxiliary since arriving here. Hostess
was Mrs. W. W. Killough, president of
the Auxiliary, who wore a turquoise-
blue suit and small black hat adorned
with masses of multicolored grapes.
The floral decorations on the table were
in red and white roses, lily-of-the-valley
and gardenias, and place-cards were small
American flags. Mrs. Samuel J. Fletcher,
wife of the U.S. Consul-General, added
a matching hat to her attractive grey
ensemble. The guest-of-honor combined
navy, red and white in blouse, suit and
hat to neat effect. Other Auxiliary com-
mittee members present were Mesdames
D. J. Lampard, Tom Blarney, John
Molyneux, L. E. Tewkesbury and Her-
bert Allen. To add to her collection,
Mrs. Leggett was presented with a pearl-
handled souvenir spoon bearing the city’s
coat-of-arms.
For 20 years, from 1926 until her
death in 1946, Dr. Vera Scantlebury
Brown gave the whole of her energies
to the improving of the health of mothers
and babies. Throughout her official and
private career. Dr. Brown recognised the
necessity of high standards of training of
personnel associated with the care of
mothers and young children, and her un-
tiring efforts have been reflected in the
efficient services now maintained in this
State. No hurdle was too big for the
indomitable spirit of this woman, and
during her years of devoted service over
200 Baby Health Centres were estab-
lished, Within four months of her death
a public meeting at the Town Hall de-
cided to dedicate an Endowment Fund
to her memory, and this ensured the
establishment of scholarships to enable
women to pursue an appropriate course
of study or research work in relation to
pre-natal care, infant welfare and pre-
school activities. Last year an Infant
Welfare sister was selected, and is flow
overseas obtaining post-graduate train-
ing and experience. This year’s winner
of the scholarship is Dr. Margaret
Mackie. The trustees of the Endowment
Fund are Lady Herring, Miss Kathleen
Syme and Drs, John Dale and Henry
Featonby. Donations are tax-free, and
this small committee is asking for £25,000
to carry on this wonderful work.
Dr. Mackie, who will specialise in the
care of expectant mothers, was given a
late-afternoon farewell party by Lady
Herring at her South'Yarra home. The
hostess’s frock was of periwinkle-blue
crepe. Dr. Mackie’s lace straw hat and
frock were black. Miss Byron Moore’s
blue-and-white frock was worn under a
blue coat; her small navy hat was
trimmed with veiling. Toning taffeta
ribbons trimmed the small navy hat which
Matron Holding wore with her floral
frock. Dr. Doris Officer’s petunia floral
frock was offset with a black hat trimmed
with white-and-black-striped taffeta
ribbon.
Another party to speed Dr. Margaret
A. Mackie was given by Mrs. E. M.
Cornfoot, of South Yarra, who is presi-
dent of the committee of the Women’s
Hospital, with which Dr. Mackie was
associated. Mrs. Cornfoot’s black crepe
frock had a pastel-pink yoke corded with
silver-beaded crepe. Dr, Mackie com-
bined pastel-blue frock and small navy
hat. The party served also as welcome-
home to Mrs. R. G. Menzies, whose
hyacinth-blue frock featured a pleated
skirt and a folded bodice; her navy hat
was trimmed with hyacinth-blue ospreys.
Mrs. Norman Harris teamed a navy en-
semble and small navy hat which carried
blue flowers. Mrs. W. S. Cox was smart
in black georgette and turquoise-blue
straw hat trimmed with mauve and blue
taffeta ribbons. Lady Leitch’s grey-and-
white silk frock was worn with a small
white hat. Mrs. Graham Godfrey’s
cinnamon-brown frock was contrasted by
a primrose-yellow straw hat trimmed
with green taffeta ribbon and lime and
green roses. Alice Bill, who is retiring
from her 15 years of organising auxiliaries
for the hospital, was in a navy ensemble.
With her grey ensemble Mrs. Herbert
Brookes wore a grey hat with Chartreuse
taffeta trimming and Chartreuse gloves
and bag.
Smart fashion pointers were evident in
the tailored suit worn by Mrs. Philip Dare
at Flemington, Of cobblestone-grey
woollen, the skirt was knife-pleated all
round; the tight-fitting jacket had no
collar but large lapels and was fastened
with silver buttons. Her grey felt hat had
a swoop of pheasant feathers set in front.
Accessories to Mrs. Maurice Copolov’s
beige suit were brown lizard gloves, shoes
and bag; her folded beret was of
emerald-green satin and beige. Mrs. Fred
Dennett was in a currant-red wool frock
and small matching toque. Mrs. Eric
Fowler contrasted her navy tailored coat
with a pastel-pink straw hat trimmed with
navy veiling; her sister, Eileen Ryan,
was in grey suit and matching beret. A
tobacco-brown bolero suit and large
matching straw hat were the choice of
Mrs. C. Curtain. Mrs. M. Sallman’s beige
coat had wide black panels in the front
and a bird perched on the brim of her
small beige felt hat. Mrs. Alan Scott s
beige corded-velvet coat featured white
box pleats at the back. White em-
broidery was splashed on the jacket of
Mrs. Ray Joseph’s navy suit.
At her hat show held in the Australia’s
Venetian Court Marjorie Gilbert showed
what Australian milliners could do. Mar-
jorie is married to Fernand Gilbert, with
whom she shared honors in the show.
During the war she and her husband
held a concert every Saturday night for
the dependants of servicemen. Marjorie
runs her home as successfully as she pre-
sides over Chapeaux Delzanne, where she
designs and creates her models.
At her marriage at Our Lady Help of
Christians’ Church, East Brunswick, to
Tom Duffy, son of Mr. and Mrs. D.
Duffy, of North Carlton, Peggy, eldest
daughter of Cr. W. P. Barry, M-L.A.,
and Mrs. Barry, of Princess Hill, wore a
lovely old-world gown of white embossed
net over silver lame, fashioned with an
off-the-shoulder line and full skirt ex-
tending into a train. Her tulle veil was
caught with a coronet of orange-blossom
and water-lilies and she carried a bouquet
of gardenias. The bride’s three sisters,
Mary, Marie and Moira, and her cousin
Mary McKechnie were bridesmaids;
they wore tiny hats of straw and net
trimmed with two large roses with their
frocks of pale-blue French net over
taffeta. The bridegroom was supported
by Adrian Callanan, Jack Cooper, Fran-
cis Kavanagh and William Barry. The
reception, at which the Lord Mayor, Cr.
J. S. Disney, and Mrs. Disney were guests,
was held at the Town Hall.
Pirandello’s “Six Characters in Search
of an Author,” that amazing play of
reality and illusion, was presented by the
Canterbury Student Players at the Union
Theatre to a big audience. Eagerly fol-
lowing Ngaio Marsh’s production were
a number of amateur actors ; the Little
Theatre contingent included Irene Mit-
chell, Loveday Hills and Dorothy
O’Keefe. Mrs. Desmond Connor, the
former Joy Youlden, well-known for her
stage work, wore a black silk romaine
frock gathered down one side into a
broad band of jet and sequin flowers.
Mrs. Garnet Carroll added a blue mink
stole to her short black beaded frock.
Beautiful frocking is a feature of the
new Tivoli show “Starry Nights,” which
opened with a scene in which were four
tall, fair girl singers in brilliant emerald-
green harem skirts attached to white
bodices, and over which were worn long,
flowing white capes. Great enthusiasm
was evoked by the act of English pianists
Ivor Moreton and Dave Kaye. Knight
Raymond Connelly and his lady were
among the enthusiasts. Mrs. Bill
Gluth, smart in black ballerina skirt
and black-and-white-striped bodice, was
with Mrs. Gordon Challingsworth, in
soft beige chiffons. Mrs. David
Martin’s dark-green suit was worn
with a crownless yellow straw hat
trimmed with green-and-white-spotted
taffeta ribbon; Mrs. Fred Irvine, in a
black ensemble, was with Mrs, Anne
Levy and Mrs. A. Colman, the latter
wearing a blue frock trimmed with royal-
blue sequins. Mrs. Alec Finlay’s jacket-
suit was of navy and white. Mrs. Lance
Rigg wore a small black hat with her
black frock. White beading highlighted
Mrs. D. Wood’s black frock. The black
chiffon frock worn by Josephine Paul had
a yoke appliqued with black velvet.
From Sydney
Fort Street Girls’ High School con-
fronts the Bridge and the flowing traffic
with quite an air. It has an immutable
look as it peers through its screen of
Moreton Bays on the changing scene.
The scene has changed quite a bit since
the day, one hundred years ago, when
the old military hospital became a school
for the young boys and girls in his
Majesty’s colony of N.S.W.? In the
years thousands of pupils have entered
the wide doorway and mounted the
staircase to the classrooms, over all of
which there is an atmosphere of im-
pressive spit-and-polish.
Just now the school is being painted,
there is talk of new turf for the lawn,
for the school is celebrating its 100th
birthday, and intends to do the thing
in style. At the sign of the old fig-tree
in front of the school, former pupils, the
further back the better, are invited to
meet at the garden-party on April
30, which will be the first of the cen-
tenary fireworks. All letters or requests
for cards of invitation will be gladly
received, and promptly answered.
Here amid window-boxes blooming
with all the flowers in season (for the
grounds are almost all asphalt) old pupils
will wander about. They will see the
building at the back of the original,
which was in its day considered the
latest word. They will see the stone steps
where a former headmaster caned the
boys; evidently he did not hold with the
whang of the cane as an accompaniment
to the classics. They will see and still
laugh at the bleak building on the side
known as “Siberia.” In addition to the
garden-party there will be a ball at the
Troc., a dinner at the Wentworth, and a
pageant in the Conservatorium.
There was a grand meeting of former
and present pupils held in the physical-
culture school to launch the doings. The
school’s headmistress, handsome Fanny
Cohen, presided over a tea-party before
the meeting. Here were the school’s Miss
Turner, president of the Old Girls’
Union, Miss Bannon and its secretary,
Miss Dey. But don’t think the boys of
Fort Street are out of this. Not at all.
They are giving strong male support on
the various committees. Now, old
Fortians, over to you! -
Actress Joy Nicholls, old Fort Street
girl now playing in London’s West End,
has made a record which will be played
during the pageant.
Kathleen Robinson, herewith, is a
young woman who has given not only
time but money to build up theatre in
Australia. Kathleen is the personality
behind the Minerva Theatre. Now the
Minerva (Whitehall Productions) is facing
on May 10 its eighth birthday. During
the eight years, come big money (and in
the war years it was big) or small, the
management has presented London and
New York successes. Behind the produc-
tions is Miss Robinson’s determination to
give young Australians a chance to dis-
play their talents in drama. Kathleen,
an Australian herself, has the distinction
of being a fine actress who, although
she and her money are behind the pro-
ductions, does not insist on appearing in
all the leading-lady parts. But nobody
who saw her can forget her Olivia Brown
in Terence Rattigan’s “Love in Idleness.”
“The Winslow Boy,” by the same author,
“The Guinea Pig,” Eugene O’Neill’s “Ah
Wilderness!” are a few among many of
the plays presented at the Minerva dur-
ing Miss Robinson’s direction which will
live in the memory. Montgomery Dunn
photograph.
Robert Lodge, of Innoxa, Ltd,, is a
man of force of character, fluent speech
and a personality that sparks along non-
stop. He himself may be innocuous,
but let u§ pay him the compliment of
saying no woman would believe it. Any-
way, he is a great admirer of the woman
of 40 and upwards. If she will only take
the care of her complexion and figure
she took in the twenties, the world is
hers. But not only her complexion but
her hands must be cared for. Innoxa in-
troduces her to its Barrier Creams, which
become invisible gloves warding off the
enemy of washing-up water and the
grubbiness of housework.
The inevitable cocktail-party intro-
duced Mr. Lodge to many Sydney
people last Thursday. Macquarie-street
was represented, unofficially, of course;
chemists were in the company, among
them the Miller sisters, who run
their own chemist shop. Press and radio
people gave one another casual “hellos.”
Dorothy Field, who is linked up with
Fassett and Johnson, who are linked up
with Innoxa, murmured introductions.
Robert Lodge was wounded as a lad, in
World War I, and met many Australians
in the A.G.H. at Boulogne. He wanted
to be a sprinter, but a wound in the foot
ended that. However, he seems to hold
his place very well in life’s race.
Charles Dickens held a birthday
party in Sydney last Friday even-
ing, and 200 of his friends attended.
They met in the Feminist Club,
and, with president Aubrey Halloran in
the chair, had one of the gayest gather-
ings in the city. The spirit of Dickens
was felt throughout the evening. There
was plenty of good-humored argument
as to whether Charles or Shakspeare had
the more humor or pathos. Shakspeare
enthusiasts were all out for Will, Then
Laurence Macaulay threw a bomb by
demanding where did Bobbie Burns come
in? Judge Maxwell gave the toast: The
Day We Celebrate.
Is Sydney, in spite of Mr. Chifley’s
tax sleuths, developing a gilded youth?
Judging by the welter of fashion dis-
plays, the rich fabrics in the frocks, the
plumes and glorious flowers in the hats,
and the ready sale of these models, the
women are certainly buying regardless.
But hoW they will ever wear out the
models is a bit of a mystery. Tire night-
club life of this city is limited to about
four fashion spots. Wear a seventy-five-
or a one-hundred-guinea frock to any one
of them three times, and you will be a
marked woman. “There’s Mrs. So and
So. I know that cyclamen frock,”
would be whispered about. The opera is
ended, and what with “Annie Get Your
Gun” and “The Kiwis” theatrical first-
nights come once in about two years.
The answer, of course, to all this avid
buying is that people must be contemplat-
ing a return to lavish entertainment in
their own homes. Of course, one draw-
back to this would be the absence of the
newspaper photographer. What is the
use of being rich and grand and able to
spend money if you can’t be photo-
graphed doing it?
Dressing for the final night of the
Italian Opera Co.’s season was as
glamorous and as sparkling as that of
the opening night. Long before seven
o’clock the foyer was filled with people
who hoped, “with luck,” to get a foot-
hold in a theatre that was already booked
out. “La Boheme” was the opera —the
singing and acting were brilliant. As
the night wore on the audience became
more and more "enthusiastic. Bravos and
cheers almost shook the house. At the
end the stage was like a horticultural
show of prize blooms. Nevin Tait got
his share of praise when, he told the
cheering crowd that the Firm hoped to
bring another opera company out in a
couple of years’ time.
Going to the Customs House at
Central-square for an overdue Christmas
present was turned to a joyous occasion
for this writer last Thursday. To begin
with, right in the front bench sat Bob
Bradshaw, and to meet that smile is as
cheering as a southerly in February. Bob
beguiled a half-hour with news of Gay
Bernays, whom he marries in about a
week from now. He also told of her
mother, the popular Jane Bernays, and her
string (well, two or three) of racehorses.
Then after his departure the Customs
Department proved it had a heart. When
this Letter’s present —a small but charm-
ing agate-and-silver trifle—was produced
the duty was stiff to staggering-point.
Viewing her blanched cheek and trem-
bling lips, the young assessor grew sym-
pathetic, consulted a somewhat older
assessor, who found that justice could be
administered with mercy—at a lower rate.
Result, a departing citizen thrilled with
the courtesy. Guess Lord Chesterfield
after all isn’t the only man who has the
right attitude towards the sex!
The General Officer Commanding
Eastern Command has sent out invita-
tions for an Army Tattoo. This will
fill the Agricultural Showground with fife
and banner and drum, and the symbols
of warfare, ancient and modern, on the
evenings of Thursday, Friday and Satur-
day, February 24, 25 and 26. The lads
involved in the display claim that they
are going to outdo the Aldershot Tattoo.


ẃ
Tp
ns
B 1
v
TELEPHONES: SVONEY M 3038 • MELBOURNE MU 3506
BRISBANE B 3604 * ADELAIDE C 7257 • PERTH B 5027
•CHAT
*
THE
Who will protect
their interests
ẅ
THE SERVICE MAN
The Pacific "Aban-
doned."
“Ek Dum”: The latest press
sensation is the “news” from an
“authoritative source” that the
United States is reconciled to the
loss of Japan in the event of war
and that some “top military
authorities in Washington advo-
cate an early withdrawal o£ aU
U.S. occupation forces from
that country. The news was sup-
posed to have emerged from a
“secret” conference in Tokyo,
perhaps by Mr. Kenneth Royall,
Secretary for the Army in Presi-
dent Truman’s Cabinet. But
both Mr. Royall and the Acting-
Secretary of the Army, Mr. Wil-
liam Draper, who is holding the
fort in Washington, denied that
the statements, of which the press
claimed to have released a tran-
script, had ever been made.
The whole thing appeared to
be a mystery, more especially
since it was reported that the
conference had been held over
General MacArthur’s head and
that his Director of Public Re-
lations, Colonel Pat Echols, had
not been present.
It was alleged that Mr. Royall
or whoever held the “secret”
press conference contended:
The fact that some countries might
think we have moral obligations in
Japan to protect the Japanese is all
the more reason why we should pull
out before anything happens.
If we let it be known that we
have plans to pull out of Japan
“ win make ,he lapaMse
And the Australians and the Fili-
pinos will scream
m Mf n he W 'V,„ h?™ o Jap f? the
Simians and Okinawa 5
If we pull out from Japan mili-
tarily, we can still shove dollars in
here and keep the Ja P anese anti ‘
Communist and on our side. <
Mr. Royall, in making his
denial in Hawaii, said that the
United States would protect
American rights and principles
in all occupied territory and had
no intention of taking the action
foreshadowed from Tokyo or
backing down on its obligations.
There were no signs of the im-
minence of withdrawals from
Japan when the writer was there
three months ago. Indeed, all
military opinion seemed to be
that Japan would have to be
denied the Russians if possible
in the event of war, so as not
to make available Japanese man-
power and Japanese bases for
submarine and air attack against
U.S. lines of communication.
Japan and the chain of islands
southwards to the Philippines,
however, would only be a sub-
sidiary factor in the war, since
the main saturation areas from
a strategic point of view would
be Europe, the Middle East,
Alaska and Canada.
The opening campaign prob-
ably would be based entirely on
a land strategy, Russia having
no fleet, mercantile marine or
otherwise, capable of handling
the kind of forces which the
U.S.S.R. needs for its kind of
war. Even the Sea of Japan
would prove a substantial ob-
s t a de to its armies, and its only
f i i attack in
area oi targe scat© auacK in
regions in which really major
forces could be assembled
•»« at once would be in
®P r ope and the adjacent parts
of Asia.
Russia s East German borders
“'s' 2 °? mlles fr ° m Franc . e -
All its earlier operations would
be directed against Western
Europe and the M.E. oil areas
adjacent to its own borders, with
vast forces of half-armed men
and women sweeping over the
country like Attila’s hordes, and
like those used in the German
war ; forces which will be killed
in millions but whose reserves,
drawn from the tremendous
fount of Russian manpower,
would continue to be driven on,
stripping the countryside like
grasshoppers and leaving in
their wake, as they did in East-
ern Germany and Austria, a hor-
rible record of atrocity and
murder among the civilian popu-
lation.
But this does not mean that
the North Pacific will be left to
their tender mercy. It cannot
be, though perhaps the Ameri-
cans would like Moscow to be-
lieve that it will.
It will certainly be the centre
of a sizeable air war if nothing
else.
The Southern Pacific will be
another matter.
It has been very much in the
minds of Americans and Can-
adians in the past few days.
Last week in the Canadian
Parliament a British Columbian
member asked the Minister for
Foreign Affairs some questions.
The first was whether the Can-
adian foreign policy took any
account of what was happening
in the Pacific, and whether the
Government realised that there
was “anything but water” be-
yond Vancouver. He also asked
whether it was true, as reported,
that the United States, Australia,
N.Z., India and Pakistan had
formed a defence pact and, if
so, why Canada was not in-
cluded, and he inferred that Can-
adian policy was made with both
eyes generally on Washington.
The Minister replied that there
was no move for such a pact as
had been reported. He made it
clear that the Government con-
sidered the North Pacific defence
important, as did the United
States, but that defence must be
oriented to meet the shock at
the point of main attack. He
twitted the Progressive Conserva-
tive official Opposition with its
silence on the Atlantic pact,
asking whether Parliament had
become divided on Foreign
Affairs or whether the Opposi-
tion had begun to make a politi-
cal plaything of foreign policy.
His speech was greeted with wild
uproar, which apparently didn’t
reach the ears of the Australian
press.
Only a few days before the
Progressive Conservatives had
won a by-election in a Govern-
ment stronghold in Quebec Pro-
vince largely on defence issues,
causing consternation in the
Liberal ranks.
Something drastic was said at
Tokyo. It was said just after it
had become necessary on the
American continent to counter
a strange and unfounded rumor
about a defence arrangement be-
tween the United States and the
friends of Indonesia who took
part in the Delhi conference. It
was said at a moment when the
Scandinavian bloc was wavering
as to whether or no it should
attempt to look to its own de-
fence or join in the Atlantic pact
—it has since decided not to
do so—and when Canadians
were looking for an assurance
that their domestic defence
would come first in case of
attack. It came when Europe
was anxious about how far the
U.S. Congress would commit it-
self in the Western pact.
It is all very mysterious, but it
should also be very salutary.
The Filipinos, feeling apparently
as the result of the presence of
considerable U.S. forces in their
islands that the Americans must
defend them whatever happens,
are adopting the attitude of a
world Power, even though they
are not able to protect travellers
in the suburbs of Manila. Dr.
Evatt has been shouting that
U.N.O. alone is his guide in
foreign policy, and the Canberra
“Government” has recently made
it clear that, while it professed
to be forced to withdraw its 34th
Brigade from Japan, against
American wishes, the withdrawal
was really made so that it might
train a U.N.O. police brigade in-
stead.
No doubt somebody in author-
ity in Japan has let something
slip as a warning, in an attempt
to shake the complacency of Mr.
Chifley’s Government, which is
going along happily in the belief
that the strategy of the next war
must be the same as the last, and
that Australia Will again have
the chance, when it opens, to re-
main uninvaded and wallow in
■. . TTC
the money brought to it by U.S.
troops and the British Royal
Navy, which are sent to give it
main protection.
It won’t. If the U.S. or any
other ally sends troops here it
will only be to assure that the
Communist unions, which form
the greater part of the support
of the so-called “Labor” party,
do not turn Australian resources
to help the enemy.
Everybody in the world except
“I feel like an egg this morning .”
our own people seems to realise
the implication of such acts as
the blockade of Dutch shipping
on the order of the Communist-
led wharflaborers and the unity
of policy between the Communist
party and the Australian “Gov-
ernment” in Indonesian and
Malayan affairs.
These implications are not
pleasant when viewed in the light
of the fact that if there is a war
it will be a war in which all
Communists will be on the
enemy’s side.
Not Very Likely.
“Ek Dum”: A military genius
named Chapman Fincher, of the
London “Daily Express,” which
did more during the war to
create the myth of Russia’s
superlative efficiency than any
other journal, has discovered
that the British Government has
decided to transfer most of its
armament industries to Aus-
tralia.
He says that Australia will
soon produce jet-planes, guided-
missiles and explosives.
The air industry is to be
“heavily subsidised and ex-
panded.” Hydroelectric power
for the production of steel and
light alloys will be developed,
And
Cabinet had come to this decision
after a warning from the Defence
Research Committee led by atomic
sciei J tist , s . ir , He . nr y Tizard who re-
cently visited Australia. The com-
mittee had pointed out that, in
another war, Britain would have to
defend herself with all her industry
at a standsti ß
The patriots of Canberra, when
this was referred to them, adopted
a modest attitude. They were
very indefinite, but left the im-
pression that, though the British
had not exactly resolved to do
all Mr. Fincher suggested, they
had gone most of the way,
spurred on by their tremendous
admiration for the organising
power of the Canberra Cabinet.
Britain is more than 10,000
miles by sea from Australia. The
voyage, what with submarine-
dodging and other diversions,
often took as much as four
months in the last war and some-
times covered as much as 20,000
miles. Even where short runs
were involved shipping nearly
broke down because in the early
stages there were not enough air-
craft, naval units and detector
equipment to cover the sea-
routes.
So with less shipping Britain
is alleged to be preparing to
lengthen its sea-routes enor-
mously so as to arrange to have
most of its defence-production
facilities on the other side of the
globe!
According to the Australian
Government this country’s effort
was “herculean” during the last
war, and left the rest of the
Allies fairly staggered with ad-
miration at the patriotism,
energy and ingenuity of Mr.
Chifley, Mr. Dedman, Mr.
Beasley and Mr. Ward.
Enlistments in the A.W.C. and


BIOGRAPHY WORTH READING.
McLACHLAN:
AN F.A.Q. AUSTRALIAN.
With many illustrations At all good bookshop’s
The Advertiser: “Parliament,” says ex-Senator McLachlan, “is like a huge school.”
This is a collection of tales out of school. But they are good stories, and none
of them will do anybody any harm. It might be a good idea to make it statutory
law that all politicians' must write their autobiographies. It is a declaration of
good faith a book like this one is exactly what is desired. An “F.A.Q.
Australian” is a modest description, but it is a just one. He is a very typical
Australian in his outlook... .he emerges as a true Australian, even if you feel
that “F.A.Q.” understates the case.
The Argus: “In a well-produced book with tartan cover, the ex-Senator tells his
own story. His reminiscences of business and the law are both interesting and
entertaining. It was his unswerving advocacy of the national-insurance scheme which
brought about his retirement from the post of Federal Attorney-General.”'
LOTHIAN PUBLISHING CO. PTY., LTD.
Melbourne Sydney Adelaide
Public Notices.
I, HERMAN GLESER, of Esthonian
nationality, born at Viljandi, Esthonia,
and resident 23 years in Australia, now
residing at 141 Campbell Street, Sydney,
intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
A 23-years-old ex-Naval Man, with wife
and young baby, desires to settle in Aus-
tralia, and is willing to work for two
years, under contract, free of wages, at
any job, farming preferred, in return for
board and lodging and payment of passage
out. Write in first instance to No. 325,
Advt. Dept., Box 2521, G.P.0., Sydney.
WILL JOHN MORRIS FORRESTER, who
formerly resided in Kirkcaldy, Scotland,
and who was last heard of at Penshurst,
Sydney, please communicate with
MESSRS. JAMES THOMSON & SON,
Solicitors, Kirkcaldy, Scotland, when he
will hear of something to his advantage.
APOLOGY.
Since I wrote my book “The Coast
Watchers” my attention has been specially
drawn to the fact that I have done a
grave injustice to Major Edmonds-Wilson
and the Commando Unit which was at
Kavieng. As the passage in question
showed, I relied on information which
at the time of writing I believed to be
accurate.
I have since made thorough enquiries.
I have perused the War Diary of Major
Edmonds-Wilson and I have read Lieu-
tenant-General Sturdee’s notes of the in-
structions which were issued to Major
Edmonds-Wilson in his capacity of
Officer Commanding First Australian In-
dependent Company.
I am now completely satisfied that the
men of that Company and its officers car-
ried out the instructions in both the spirit
and the letter and, in circumstances of
great difficulty, acted with commendable
courage, initiative and discretion.
I regret that, in my book, I have un
wittingly done an injustice to the officers
and men of the Independent Company.
The printers and publishers of the book
join me in this expression of regret.
E. A. Feldt.
If any illustration in
“THE BULLETIN” takes your
fancy, write to the Manager,
who will quote you price for
the original.
Positions Vacant.
BUSHMEN (4) wanted —up to 45 years
old and single men preferred—for Fijian
Timber Mill. Must be capable of hand-
ling any bush job, particularly “Roping”
and “Breaking Out,” splicing, mainten-
ance of saws and the laying out of ropes
for log hauling.
Wages, £5O Fijian currency per month
(Australian currency £56 55.). An
extra £lO Fijian currency per month
will be paid to anyone capable of assum-
ing a Foreman’s position. In addition
a bonus on production will be paid when
the new mill is operating.
Fares, either by steamer or plane, will
be paid to appointees. Accommodation
and messing available for single men.
For a married man a house will be
erected and supplied rent free.
Successful applicants will be required
to give a guarantee to remain at least
12 months.
Applications, accompanied by copies of
testimonials, by letter, to
“LUMBER,”
C/o Mercantile Exchange,
380 Collins St., Melbourne.
Missing Friend.
LEVY, Harry Isaac. —Will HARRY
ISAAC LEVY, formerly of Sydney, last
heard of in 1918, son of Charlotte and
Mark Levy, or anyone who can give any
information as to his whereabouts or
the date of his death, please communicate
with LOUIS S. LAZARUS, Solicitor, 379
Collins Street, Melbourne?
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT EDWARD O’KEEFE late
of 32 Weston Street Granville.—TAKE
NOTICE that RITA HELEN O’KEEFE
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3547
of 1948 against you on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 6th day of
May 1949 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from MESSRS.
PRIMROSE, YOUNG & PRIMROSE,
Solicitors, 12 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
—'(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
i%5S3£Kf/;
! y*»
1
mji Wti
[«S«ls^g;
.
Ms
!?<«*
fe, V
&.iS*
mIMM
rl
. ~ •■;,
: ;t:
H
m
gas
HI
1
m
mmitgi
ftM
■P*
ill
p
m
fees
I!
Sup
mmih
mm
Menu
Magic
FOR WORLD TRAVELLERS
the SYDNEY-LONDON
&
“KANGAROO" SERVICE
w
C.C.C. were carried out on such
a scale as to strip the normal in-
dustry of the country, and tens
of thousands of Australians were
sent to Government-managed
jobs between Melbourne and
Cape York, these enterprises
being controlled superlatively by
Mr., E. G. Theodore, whose
Premiership of Queensland is
one of the glories of Labor-
party tradition, and whose pre-
decessor in the Dailey seat in the
Federal Parliament outdid even
modern Socialist punters by win-
ning thousands on a horse round
about the time Mr. Theodore
got the nomination.
Yet with all this effort Aus-
tralian war production in the
armament field might be sum-
marised as follows:
By. its “herculean” efforts
a graving-dock was built in
Sydney. Members of the
present Ministry violently
opposed the beginning of
it, but rushed, trailing clouds
of glory, to take sole credit for
it at its opening. It took more
than twice the length of time it
should have taken to build, and
cost more than twice as much as
had been estimated. It was
finished almost in time for the
Victory celebrations.
When Admiral Fraser at the
very zenith of the Pacific cam-
paign desired to clean the
bottoms of two destroyers in it,
he had to desist and send the
weary ships to New Zealand.
There was a strike on about
which the Government wasn’t
prepared to do anything.
Again, by tremendous efforts,
the Government succeeded,
mainly through the efforts of
private enterprise in building
500 or so twin-engined Beaufort
bombers, a number of trainers
of elementary construction, a
handful of Mosquitoes and
Mustangs by the end of the
war. They also had one or two
machines “designed” which be-
longed to the dark ages by the
time they were finished,
Britain delivered —to June,
1944—10,118 heavy bombers,
17,702 medium bombers,
38,025 fighters, 6208 naval
fighters, 25,346 trainers and
5310 general - reconnaissance,
transport, air-sea rescue and
other types —total 102,609 —
which would be equivalent to
one aircraft to every 40 adults,
male and female, in Australia.
Australia’s naval contribution
consisted of three 1800-ton de-
stroyers, for which the blueprints
had to be imported along with
the armament and some of the
other machinery. They each
took as long to build as a battle-
ship in Europe, and the builders
in some cases were driven nearly
mad with labor troubles. There
were also built some dozens of
smaller vessels from the 800-ton
frigate mark downwards.
Britain between September,
1939, and June, 1944, built 722
major naval vessels, 1386 mos-
quito craft and 3636 other naval
ships—about 1,500,000 tons in
all, apart from huge quantities
of mercantile-marine tonnage
which Australia didn’t build.
She built one ton of naval ship-
ping alone to the equivalent of
every four adult head of Aus-
tralian population of both sexes.
Australia spent £30,000,000 on
tank projects and allied work,
and didn’t put a single tank into
the field, and her munition pro-
duction might have kept the
relevant sections of the Allied
armies thrown against Germany
in guns and equipment for a
week if the fighting didn’t happen
to be very heavy.
Britain produced again
September, 1939, to June, 1944 —
25,116 tanks, 919,111 wheeled
vehicles for the services, 13,512
field, medium and heavy-artillery
equipments up to 16-inchers,
6294 ack-ack heavy guns, 15,324
light ack-ack guns—with all
equipment and accessories in
each case, of course —3,729,921
machine' and sub-machine-guns
and more than 2,000,000 rifles.
This was outside nearly 40,000
naval guns and nearly a million
mines and depth-charges.
These figures give an idea of
what the transfer of the United
Kingdom’s defence production
to Australia would entail.
On war-material production,
the U.K. had numbers of men,
women and girls equal to more
than twice the total Australian
male and female adult popula-
tion between 18 and 107 en-
gaged. If they had been working
Australian war-time hours, under
Australian war-time conditions,
Communists and other agitators
thrown in and the Australian
rates of work prevailing, the
U.K. would have needed at least
three times the manpower which
it did use and the war would
have cost it nearly six times as
much as it did—this outside ship-
ping.
It seems unlikely that an ap-
preciable section of Britain’s
war production is likely to be
moved out here. In any case it
would take about 20 years to
get it established, and half the
population of Europe would
have to immigrate to cope with
it under opr present leisured con-
ditions.
What is possible is that, with
fellow-feeling, the British Cabinet
is prepared to help its Australian
Socialist brethren to magnify
their part in the war effort so
as to enable them to appear to
be doing something when the
next election comes along.
The Real U.N.O.
“Ek Dum”: Dr. Evatt did
not do much to illuminate Aus-
tralia’s foreign policy in his
speech opening the debate in the
House of Representatives on
February 9.
He said that it was “strictly in
accordance with the principles of
U.N.0.,” but as U.N.O. appears
to have no policy and no prin-
ciples, being merely the play-
thing of the U.S.S.R. and its
satellites and sometimes of
people like Dr. Evatt when no
large issues are involved, this
does not explain much.
There are quite a number of
issues in the world which are not
determinable by U.N.O. Peace
settlements, for instance, are not
to be made except by the vic-
torious Allies. But all the policy
Australia has in the matter of
peace agreements is that enemy
countries, so long as they are
under the dominance of Russia,
can do exactly what they like.
Dr. Evatt and his friends have
allowed Eastern Europe to be
virtually annexed by the Rus-
sians and placed under the
governorship of ex-general-sec-
retaries of the Comintern and
Red Army officers without so
much as lifting a finger, despite
the fact that every day coun-
tries like Poland, Hungary, Bul-
garia and Albania treat the
Western Powers with studied
insult and derision.
Its attitude towards Japan is
like that of a jeering small boy
who follows in the wake of an
arrested disturber of the peace,
firmly held by an American
policeman, hurling banana-skins
and shouting insults and threats.
Its attitude to China through-
out the period during which
that country was being overrun
by Russian-armed Communists
was that it was none of our
business. Now it is that we
might very well help U.N.O. to
mediate —a mediation which the
Russians and Chinese Commun-
ists would only recognise if the
result went entirely their way.
For the rest. Dr. Evatt’s enun-
ciation consisted of his usual
suave barrage of no-hope aspira-
tions and assurances which have
no backing in reality—assur-
ances that Australian support of
U.N.O. “does not weaken the
British Commonwealth,” assur-
ances that Australia and New
Zealand have always been in the
van of those who wanted maxi-
mum co-operation in the British
Commonwealth, though in fact
Canberra has seized on every
difference as a chance to throw
its weight about, frequently to
Britain’s discomfiture in the sight
of a grinning Latin-American or
coolie world.
If Dr, Evatt ever acquires a
coat of arms and a motto, the
motto will certainly read: “The
limelight, the limelight, always
the limelight,” which sums up
the essence of his foreign policy.
The governing factor in the
world is not U.N.0., a flimsy,
quarrelling riot of arguing dip-
lomats who may be gifted,
though not for diplomacy. It is
Russian armed strength and the
Russian veto.
In U.N.O. in 1947 both the
U.S.S.R. and Dr. Evatt were
very prominent. On September
26 that year, the chairman of
the Soviet delegation (Gromyko)
made angry accusations that
Britain and the United States
were endeavoring to incite a
new war. He demanded that
the U.N.O, should “condemn
criminal propaganda for a new
war carried on in reactionary
circles” and “in particular the
United States, Turkey and
Greece” and implement its reso-
lution passed by the General
Assembly on December 14,
1946, for the exclusion from
national armaments of the
atomic weapon.
The Australian delegates could
not, of course, allow the Rus-
sians to get all the advertise-
ment, so they rushed in with a
resolution which was nothing
more than a blast of wind.
A year later the Assistant
Director of the Central Intelli-
gence Group in Washington
gave a few figures as to what
Russia had been doing in a mili-
tary way in 1947, the year in
which it was seeking adoption of
a disarmament scheme and the
prohibition of any type of propa-
ganda to warn prospective
victims of its plan for world re-
volution and to stir up the
United States and British people
to the necessity for strong de-
fence.
The spokesman of the C.I.G.
said that during 1947 Russia had!
spent £400,000,000 on atom-
bomb research and “in addition
at least £3,000,000,000 on new
military equipment.” He de-
clared that more than 500 Ger-
man scientists had been kept at
work on guided weapons and
other novelties, including a tank
which probably was the largest
ever built.
The active force of the Rus-
sian Army he estimated at
3,800,000, this despite the fact
that thirty classes of conscripts
were released after the end of
World War 11. Demobilisation,
he said, had been on a system-
atic and selective basis, infantry-
men being quickly released and
technicians and mechanised and
armored-force troops retained.
The professional cadre of the
Red Army, said the Assistant
Director of the Intelligence
Group, was 2,000,000 officers
and men. To add to these
800,000 to 1.000,000 men are
being conscripted every year for
a two-year total-service period.
He estimated that by 1955 the
U.S.S.R. would have a trained
reserve of between 15,000,000
and 20,000,000 men.
And this development and
huge rearming programme—be
it noted most of the develop-
ments in armament were aggres-
sive in type —was being carried
out at a time when the U.S.S.R.
was demanding that other coun-
tries should begin disarming
(Russia to follow when ready).
In 1947 the United States land
forces were down to 670,000 and
still being whittled away and the
British forces were in about the
same or worse position, yet
being hailed from Moscow wffh
vituperation as aggressive and
engaged in promoting a new
war —the same war which they
were charged with trying to
promote early in 1940, along
with Mr. Menzies, who sup-
posedly was sending the A.I.F.
abroad—the whole half-armed
division of it—to attack Soviet
Russia at a time when the British
were hanging on to the United
Kingdom by the skin of their
teeth.


The "MARS” PLAIN MILLER
w
Built to Recognised Standards of Accuracy
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Output and
s High Quality Work. All necessary Rotating
~ Parts are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
MARS MACHINE TOOL
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Precision Lathes, Shapers, Millers and Planers
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE.
ŵ
Distributing Agents: N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert &
Co. Pty., Ltd. Vic.: Herbert Osborne, Engineer,
567-9 Little Bourke St. (near King St.),
Melbourne, C.l. S.A.: M. S. McLeod, Ltd.,
Adelaide. W.A.; The Western Machinery Co,
Ltd., Perth. Tas.: Charles Davies, Ltd., Hobart.
Calcutta: Boss Neil & Sons, Chowringhee
Kd. Bombay Province; E. S. Mehta & Co., Ltd.,
Fort Bombay. Madras, Mysore, Cochin and
Puddukkottai: Australasian Trading Co.
(India), Ltd. Hongkong and Shanghai: The
East Asiatic Co,, Ltd.
LICENSED
MANUFACTURERS
in q’land or
MEEHANTTE
IRONS
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OP SERVICE
TO TEE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
To Help Solve Year Money Worries
gfii\'&**
ẁ
A persona!, confidential sendee
Is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed.
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected biUs» come ta
and talk It over*
RURAL BANK
Head Office t Martin Placet Sydney*
UNCABLED
ADDITIONS
RUSSIAN “PEACE MOVES.”
Judged by its press, the U.S.
seems to treat any noise, hostile
or friendly, that comes out of
Russia like the rattle of a rattle-
snake, its main reaction being to
leap several feet clear and then
examine both ends and the
middle of the noise to see which
part conceals the bite.
The latest “peace offensive,”
which began early in January
and culminated in Stalin’s offer
to meet Truman, had been
thoroughly dissected, analysed'
and consigned to the ash-can
well before Stalin added his
voice to the proceedings.
First Moves
The first rumblings of the
“offensive” came from France
when the influential Communist,
Marcel Cachin, called upon the
East and West to get together
and settle their differences. He
was closely followed by the
official Communist organ in
France, “Cahiers du Commun-
isme,” which opined that “From
the Socialist viewpoint there
exist no reasons for excluding
the possibility of co-operation
with the capitalist States.”
Thereafter events followed a
recognisable pattern. Cachin
cast up in Italy, and Palmiro
Togliatti, Italian Communist
leader, came out with:
We are profoundly convinced that
within this generation Socialism will
win at least in all European countries.
But it will win by peaceful methods.
There is not and never has been in
the Soviet Union any leader who
followed Lenin’s and Stalin’s line and
—New York “Herald Tribune."
"WHAT SOME PEOPLE CALL A ‘PEACE OFFENSIVE’
upheld the theory of revolutionary
war. Socialism and peace are causes
that cannot be divided.
Elsewhere the same line was be-
ing adopted by Moscow mouth-
pieces. In Washington Boris
Izakov announced in the Soviet
Embassy’s Information Bulletin
that “there were no barriers to
the goodwill of peoples aspiring
toward a common aim,” while in
Germany Max Reimann, the
Communist leader in the Western
zone, prophesied that East-West
might manage to settle their
differences.
These manoeuvres whether
they were kite-flying or simply
at attempt to pave the way for
Stalin’s offer —received anything
but a warm welcome. In fact,
they aroused such a storm of
scornful comment in the U.S.
that Stalin could hardly have
addressed a less receptive audi-
ence when he made his “offer”
to Truman.
Russian Motives
Dissecting the reasons behind
the Russian change of face, re-
sponsible U.S. papers come to
pretty much the same conclusion
—that the peace offensive is in-
tended to benefit nobody but
Russia. The Atlantic Alli-
ance, the progress of the
European Recovery Programme
and domestic trouble in Eastern
Europe are, at least, three good
reasons for Stalin wanting a
breather —a breather usually
obtained Hitler-fashion by en-
ticing everyone to talk and keep-
ing them talking instead of act-
ing.
In the case of the Atlantic
Alliance, the “Christian Science
Monitor” summing-up is typi-
cal : “Seven Western - nations are
on the verge of entering a pact
for mutual assistance against
aggression. Anything that can
sow doubts in the minds of
Americans or Western European
peoples as to the urgent neces-
sity for the North Atlantic De-
fence Alliance will serve Krem-
lin purposes well at this
moment.”
American Reactions
After assessing the worth of
the Communist statements the
N. Y, “Times” notes the in-
consistency of Western Euro-
pean Communists waving the
olive branch, while Moscow’s
“Pravda” calls on all the faith-
ful for a “burning hatred of
capitalism and all aspects of
bourgeois ideology.” “It is,
therefore,” says the “Times,”
“still necessary to be on guard
against such manoeuvres, and to
ask Russia just what its policy
is and what kind of peace it
has in mind. The only answer
that can be accepted by the
West will have to come, not in
words and propaganda, but in
deeds that will restore the world’s
confidence in the Soviet’s pledged
word.”
In Europe
Joseph E. Evans, “Wall-street
Journal’s” able European cor-
respondent, has, perhaps, a
closer view of things than the
foregoing editorial-writers.
While recognising the hollow-
ness of the Soviet’s policy-shift,
he also suggests how it may be
turned to some advantage for
the Western Powers: “The Red
dignitaries are simply telling us
that Russia is not ready for war
just now. The ‘peace offensive’
they seem to have launched
signals no basic shift of Soviet
policy; it is merely a device to
give Moscow time to complete
the preparations for the clash
which its leaders have more than
once designated inevitable.
“That being understood, how-
ever, there is no reason why
America and the Western Euro-
pean nations should not take
what profit they can from this
interval in the cold war. For
such a breathing spell, or even
the suggestion that there is to
be one, necessarily defers the
prospect of imminent war.
Russia’s Headaches
“To see how the West might
derive advantage from this situ-
ation, it is necessary to consider
some of the things which have
produced it. One of these is
certainly the determination —
which cannot have failed to
penetrate the most jingoistic
mind in the Kremlin —with
which the United States is arm-
ing itself and preparing to arm
others. That alone would have
been enough to give pause to a
comparatively ill - equipped
Russia.
“But there are other causes of
Kremlin concern. Economically,
the Russian world is hurting.
No match —in terms of ability
to utilise resources —for indus-
trial America plus industrial
Western Europe in the first
place, the Soviet orbit is feeling
increasingly the effect of the
United States blanket ban on
war-potential exports (which can
be made to mean anything) to
the Soviet Union and its satel-
lites and the special counter-
blockade in Germany. The
general low level of East-West
trade doesn’t help the Western
world, but it can be disastrous
for the Eastern.
“There are indications that it
is already very serious. The
Czechoslovakian Communists
are at the moment earnestly
trying to drum up American
business—and goodwill if pos-
sible. Poland has just concluded
a billion-dollar trade pact with
Britain, with unusually concili-
atory Polish promises to discuss
pre-war debts and compensation
for nationalised property.
“In Germany some Russian
officials have been practically
begging American authorities to
release presently-blocked equip-
ment to the Soviet zone ; gener-
ally, it is no secret that more
than one branch of industry in
Russia’s Germany is on the verge
of collapse for lack of goods
which formerly came from the
West. It would not even be too
much of a shock if one day the
Soviet Union were to indicate its
willingness to talk about the
—Chicago “Tribune”
"GETTING TIRED OF THE CIRCUS ROLE."
billions of dollars it owes the
U.S. for war-time lend-lease.
Plans for the West
“All this can give the West
certain cues as to how to put the
breathing-spell to work for its
advantage. In the first place,
the natural tendency to identify
deferral of war with deliverance
from it must be guarded against
—and deferral is the most we
can be presently certain of; the
Russians would like nothing
better than for us to become
easygoing in their regard. The
time —if, as it seems, there
actually is to be time —must be
used wisely.
“What is further urgently
needed is for the Western Euro-
pean democracies to utilise this
moratorium on fear, however
temporary it may be, for the
energetic accomplishment of the
aims of the European Recovery
Programme. It is regrettable
but true that the nations of Free
Europe have not yet undertaken
those drastic measures of finan-
cial reform and economic co-
ordination which, more than all
the aid America is capable of
giving, can spell real economic
strength.”
“Once European recovery, on
this only stable basis, were under
way there would be not only
the positive gain of a Western
economy stronger than anything
the East could offer. There
would also be the important
negative advantage of a sharp
lessening of the appeal—and a
reduction of the effectiveness of
the sabotage—of Communism in
such presently vulnerable coun-
tries as France and Italy.
“Of only secondary import-
ance to this is the necessity of
developing the too-slowly-
emerging military solidarity of
the Western nations. That they
be immediately armed to the
teeth is not nearly so essential
as that a truly integrated mili-
tary command and a truly inte-
grated defence system be
evolved. That takes time, and
it is to be hoped that that is
what the Soviets have indeed
given us.
“But, like European recovery,
it takes more than time ; it takes
willpower and men capable of
devoting themselves to a cause
in which national jealousies are
sublimated. The terrible danger
is that, if Soviet peace overtures
continue, the whole structure of
Western defence will dissolve
into its elements —into the usual
welter of nationalistic petti-
nesses. It would seem the
American role here might best
be one of continued insistence
on the urgency of the situation
—unless, of course, the U.S. it-
self succumbs to Soviet blandish-
ments.
“Assuming it does not, the
final necessary part of this pro-
gramme is to tighten the squeeze
on the Soviet orbit. If it is true
that the Soviets are now calling
for time out in the cold war,
then that is at least partly the
result of the economic pressure
we have already applied to
them. That pressure should be
increased where it already exists
and extended to those places
where it does not yet exist —in
the form of economic sanctions
wherever and whenever possible.
It is not even inconceivable that
the battle for Berlin, to take one
example, could yet be won this
way.
“If all this were to be done,
it would not alter the Soviet
Union’s implacable goal of
world hegemony. But it would
make the realisation of that goal
recede into the ever more re-
mote future, until finally the
chances of realising it would be
so negligible as to render the
prospect of a Soviet attack
against the West all but un-
thinkable. Then would Com-
munism be truly contained.
“Perhaps there will not be
time —all this has been predicated
on the assumption that Cachin
and Togliatti and Izakov were
speaking on Moscow orders and
not through their respective hats.
But even if the breathing spell
proves non-existent, something
like this must be done anyway.
The best way to go about it
would seem to be to use what


m
mm
ẃ
time there is as though there
were no time at all.”
China Post-mortem.
U.S. papers are indulging in
a good deal of witch-hunting
over Communist victories in
China, most of them going back
some years to unearth the roots
of the trouble as well as cover-
ing most of the ground described
here in B. 19/1/’49. George
E. Sokolsky, in the N. Y. “Sun,”
harks back to Tehran and Yalta,
where Roosevelt and Churchill,
refusing Russia’s demand of the
Dardanelles as the price of enter-
ing the war against Japan, agreed
instead to hand over Manchuria,
half of Korea and the Kuriles.
“They also accepted Russia as
th 6 successor to Japan on the
continent of Asia. Chiang was
forced to swallow that at terrific
loss of face.
“The troubles between Chiang
Kai-shek and the United States
go back also to General ‘Vine-
gar Joe’ Stilwell, who made im-
possible demands on China—
impossible because his demands
would have meant, practically,
the transference of the authority
of office from Chiang to Stilwell.
Before Stilwell handed his ulti-
matum to Chiang, General Pat
Hurley had come to satisfactory
arrangements with Chiang, both
as to Stilwell’s authority and
American participation. Stilwell
by-passed Hurley and, through
General George Marshall, got
authority from President Roose-
velt to issue his ultimatum.
“Ultimately, this situation
broke Stilwell. Chiang de-
manded his recall, to which
Roosevelt had to accede. When
General Marshall came to China
he sought to reinvoke the Stil-
well policy of a coalition Gov-
ernment which would include the
Communists.”
Most of the U.S. critics agree
that the “coalition-with-Com-
munists” was a fatal notion. The
“Saturday Evening Post” takes
a somewhat similar reading of
history as Sokolsky, although it
absolves Roosevelt to some ex-
tent from the “coalition” theory.
That theory “is not a hand-me-
down from the Roosevelt foreign
policy. Mr. Roosevelt consis-
tently stuck with the Chiang
regime and resisted pressure
from Stilwell, the State Depart-
ment and the liberal columnists
to backtrack. Even his disastrous
concessions at Yalta were sweet-
ened to a degree by his success
in wrangling out of Stalin an
agreement to support Chiang’s
Government as the only autho-
ritative regime in China. But
as in too many episodes in
Roosevelt’s foreign policy, we
—New York “Sun."
“A LOT TO HANDLE ”
accepted rhetoric as honest cur-
rency and surrendered on the
essential material issues.
“With Manchuria in his
pocket, Stalin could afford to
agree to support anything -in
China to placate the West. With
General Marshall in the mood
to insist on a Chiang-Communist
coalition, the Red dictator had
little to worry about. The Tru-
man problem now is to explain
these sad miscalculations to the
people of the United States with-
out admitting that anybody was
wrong.”
Whatever explanations are
made, the Communist victories
in China mean, as the N. Y.
“Times” sees it, “the abolition
of the first democratic con-
stitution China has ever had
in its 4000-year history
China faces at best dismember-
ment among Communist and
non-Communist war lords as in
the chaotic days following the
Chinese revolution, and at worst
complete domination by a regime
pledged to lead its 450,000,000
people into the anti-democratic
bloc headed by Soviet Russia.”
Australia-Dutch
Relations.
Authentic Australian feelings
towards the Dutch in Indonesia
having been completely ignored
by Canberra, or thoroughly mis-
represented abroad by various
wandering proponents of “our
foreign policy,” a discerning
corrective by Albert E. Norman,
Australian correspondent of the
“Christian Science Monitor,” is
more than welcome.
Describing the genuine Aus-
tralian attitude towards the
Dutch as a “hitherto unreported
fact,” Norman states that it is
“looming larger every day in
Australia.”
“Many Australians —the man
you meet in the elevator, the
man who delivers your paper,
the postman, and the milkman,
the people who seldom get
quoted in the newspaper—are
feeling their country’s accredited
representatives are not accurately
reflecting Australia’s viewpoint
in the world’s councils.
“They are deeply uneasy
about the official attacks made
in Australia’s name upon the
Dutch in Indonesia.
“It is perhaps a straw in the
Australian wind that in dozens
of conversations during the last
few months with individual Aus-
tralians, I have not found one
who has condemned the Dutch.
And there is the steady testimony
of numerous published letters
in the Australian press, most of
which seem to be in the same
tenor.
“Broadly the consensus one
draws from all this testimony is
that while these Australians think
it is ‘terrible’ that the Dutch
have had to resort to armed
force to overcome Republican
resistance, at the same time
there is the opinion the Dutch
had a legal mandate to restore
their pre-war sovereignty until
such time as a Federated United
States of Indonesia, now in for-
mation, could be established,
“Moreover, this collective
Australian opinion generally
appears to resent the official
Australian demand voiced by
Col. William Roy Hodgson in
the United Nations Security
Council, calling for Dutch ex-
pulsion from the United Nations.
Nor has Col. Hodgson’s liken-
ing of the Dutch to Hitler in
their handling of the Indonesian
problem been popular here.”
' As pointers to Australian feel-
ings about Indonesia, Norman
quotes Sydney “Sun”;
Let us hope that the democratic
nations realise that Colonel Hodg-
son’s outbursts before the Security
Council reflect the views of Dr.
Evatt, ■ Minister of External Affairs,
and not of most Australians,
“the Catholic weekly,” which
asserted
that Prime Minister Joseph B.
Chifley had received a “very raw
deal from his subordinates” when
being provided with departmental
statements on - Indonesia. The Ex-
ternal Affairs Department “was in-
directly using the Prime Minister as
a mouthpiece to defend their own
faulty counsels and actions,”
and W. M. Hughes:
For Australia to posture as the
[U.N.] champion of the Republican
Indonesians is not only folly but
rank treason.
“While these viewpoints
openly impute serious charges to
highly-placed officials in the
Australian Government,” Nor-
man continues, “there is at the
same time a further current
Australian view which believes
the Indonesian Republican Gov-
ernment cannot function legally
until it first has been elected by
Indonesians in its territory.
This viewpoint claims support
from the fact the United Nations
General Assembly has not ex-
tended full political recognition
to Republican Indonesia.”
Cost of the “Air-lift.”
While the Berlin air-lift has
run up some remarkable figures
in connection with timetables
and tonnage carried, it has also
run up an equally remarkable
bill. Some idea of the total cost
can be gathered from Uncle
Sam’s share of the expense
account, which, the “U.S. News
and World Report” estimates,
will be $500,000,000 in 1949.
“The Berlin run is siphoning
men and transports off other
routes, wearing out planes and
pushing up Air Force spending
for repairs,” the “News” reports,
pointing out that half the Army’s
big C 54 transports are now fly-
ing the Berlin route, while
others are helping put supplies
into the air corridor. To keep
Berlin going, air services in the
Pacific, Alaska, around the
Panama Canal and military
flights to Japan all have to be
reduced.
Still more aircraft are needed
for two reasons —first to replace
those already on the Berlin run
which are wearing out at triple
the normal rate and which will
cost about $250,000,000 for re-
placements, and second, to ex-
pand considerably the present
flow of supplies. At present the
lift can only keep Berlin’s indus-
tries operating at half-speed,
while food is at a minimum and
there is practically no coal for
home-heating.
Some of the real cost of the
air-lift will not show until air-
craft begin to wear out. About
250 of the Army’s Cs4s are
on the lift at present—most of
them about two years old.
Normally they would last about
10 years, but under the pressure
at which they are now working
they will be finished by 1950.
“The cost in dollars to the
Air Force alone,” the “News”
adds, “has been announced as
$385,000 a day. That is at the
rate of $140,525,000 a year, and
does not include everything.
The cost, in relation to delivered
supplies, will go higher as bad
weather in the corridor cuts
down the number of flights.
“Actual spending to keep
Berlin supplied by air probably
is running closer to $500,000 a
day. The Air Force figure in-
cludes normal pay and depreci-
ation, plus fuel and mainten-
ance. But it does not show
what the Army is spending.
Army trucks, gasoline and men
are being used to haul cargo to
the take-off fields and from the
Berlin airports. Army en-
gineers are building new airports
to help the air-lift grow. All
this runs into thousands of
dollars a day,
“Commercial air-lines are
flying an average of seven trans-
ocean trips a week to deliver
engines, spare parts and sup-
— N. Y. “Daily Mirror.”
“WHILE THE GENTLEMEN DEBATE .”
plies to the Air Force in Ger-
many. Private companies have
had to be called in, too, to help
overhaul the big Cs4s every 1000
flight hours. Cost of an over-
haul, in extreme cases, can go
as high as $lOO,OOO.
“Supplying Berlin by air will
take at least half a billion dol-
lars in 1949, if the operation has
to be kept up next year. Aver-
age tonnage flown into Berlin
so far has been around 4000
tons a day. But that, is just
enough to keep the city going.
Flight delivery of 9000 tons
daily probably will be needed to
give Berlin something closer to
a normal life.”
Dragnet Digest.
World’s Wheat. —ln its January
review the Canadian Bureau of
Statistics forecasts big world wheat
crops for this year, weather permit-
ting. “The largest addition to world
wheat supplies in 1949 again may
come from the United States,” the
area of winter wheat “seeded there
for all purposes” being 61,370,000
acres, “more than five per cent, larger
than last year’s record 58,161,000
acres.”
* * * *
H.C. of Victory.—A “Wall-street
Journal” staff correspondent does the
assessing; “If one adds up occu-
pation costs (now raised by the ex-
pensive air-lift), essential food im-
ports and E.R.P. contributions to the
western zones one gets a figure of
over a billion dollars a year—quite a
tidy sum even in these days of inflated
values. In fact, it is rather ironical
to reflect that America is paying every
year on the account of a defeated
Germany a larger sum than the in-
demnity which Germany levied on
France after the Franco-Prussian war.”
H*
A Humanist Capitalism. Discus-
sing the Truman “Fair Deal” as an
extension of the Roosevelt “New
Deal,” a writer in N. Y. “Herald
Tribune” sees it as one answer to
Communism and suggests that Com-
munists look on it as such: “It was
quite evident to me, judging by a
few conversations I was able to have
with serious Communists, that they
are fascinated and puzzled by the idea
that a reformed and humanist capi-
talism might present the world with
something tremendous that is not
dreamed of in the Marxist philosophy.”
« * * *
German Recovery. —ln an exten-
sive survey of the present state of
things in the Soviet zone in Germany
a London “Times” special correspon-
dent summed up; “It is generally
agreed that, after three and_ a half
years of systematic exploitation, the
economy of the zone has reached its
lowest ebb.” In contrast, the “Times”
refers, editorially to “the astonishing
recovery in Western Germany,” in-
dicating “the formidable resources left
to this industrious nation,” and hence
providing very strong grounds for
French fears.


SAGE OF ALFRED THE DA NE
BY
BIAN JAMES
ALFRED THE DANE lived right
here in Big Pitt, and he was an
institution right from the first. A
real character, and Big Pitt was
proud of him even while it felt superior,
too. When he came here he said “I gom
from Swiddin —I a Swid,” just as if he
had come up from Little Pitt or not much
further. But he was foreign for all that,
and the general notion was that he came
from Denmark. So he was spoken of as
the Dane, or Alfred the Dane, or, mostly,
just Alfred. He had another name, of
course, but no one got round to using
it, and Alfred himself didn’t seem to care.
There was no one like Alfred. Not that
he looked so extraordinary, except for
eyes—big and blue and candid—and he
was of average size. But he was powerful,
with long rather ape-like arms, and this
simian resemblance was heightened by the
way he swung along. But you forgot all
this when you looked at his face —red,
and strong, and very trustworthy—and
at his clear, candid blue eyes.
He loved work. He’d work all night
and all day, and the Lord only knows
when he slept. All manner of work,
especially with tools and machinery and
wheels ... You wanted a steel-share
pointed—and you went along and Alfred
did it. Or a difficult bit of welding, and
Alfred did that in half the time they’d
take in Little Pitt, and a lot cheaper. Or
a sewing-machine that always broke the
thread and snapped the needles—Alfred
fixed all that. Bert Williams’s big
draught got sick once, and Bert was
upset about it. Pretty valuable horse it
was. All the experts came along—Big
Pitt was full of experts —and they couldn’t
do anything. And someone said —“What
about giving Alfred a go?”
That was an insult to the experts really,
and they laughed in a nasty way about
it. But Bert was desperate, as you might
guess, with his horse dying on him, and
he did give Alfred a go. Alfred came
and fixed that horse —some black-looking
tack that he poured down the horse’s
throat out of a beer-bottle. No drench-
ing-bit or anything—the horse just took
it as if he liked it.
Just the same with fumigating the
citrus. Alfred would do that in half the
time the professionals took—and twice as
cheaply. The tents would be over the trees
like magic, as they say. And the
“yerries,” as Alfred called them, be under-
neath while another man would still be
yarning to the boss. Those “yerries” used
to amuse us. Alfred said they were just
the thing for holding the cyanide concoc-
tion if “der handles not broken were.”
IF Alfred had a weakness it was beer.
And you could only call that a weak-
ness in a very general, way of talking of
such things. With Alfred it was a
strength, really. In very few men has
beer shown such good results. He made
beer a strong and loyal ally as it were. In
quantity. When he had a difficult job
Ihe lived on beer. It took the place of
sleep and food. Literally. Just beer.
Perhaps coffee, too —strong and very
sweet. But beer was the mainstay.
Now there was a bus up from Little
Pitt—twice a day it ran, and a good,
friendly sort of bus. A part of the lives
of everyone, along the road, and not one
of those Government concerns that came
i later to hunt all the good feeling off the
road.
Dick Clark ran that bus, and nothing
; was ever too much trouble for Dick, On
the second run of the day, Dick would
pull in at Alfred’s before. going on to
Rowland’s store, which was the post-
office too, and the end of the run. It all
went like clockwork, if you understand:
Dick would change gears for the bit of a
pinch on the road ; Alfred would come
out of his shed and wave his hand as if
it was the first time in his life that he’d
ever stopped a bus. And Dick would pull
up as if he had never stopped at that spot
before.
“Hullo, Deck!”
“Oh, it’s you, Alfred, is it? Hullo,
Alfred!”
“You haf somet’ing for me, Deek?
Isn’t it, no?”
“I believe I have, Alfred. Ah, here it
is, Alfred. Two parcels, Alfred.”
1 “Po!”
“Yes, two. Grant and Sims said to say,
Alfred, that they didn’t have those screws
and fittings in brass. Will send them next
week, they said.”
“Goot, Deck, dey can wait.”
“Well, here’s the rest of it, Alfred.”
A heavy and much-used sugar-bag, full
of metal things and dull rattles and clangs,
would be grasped by Alfred’s strong hand
and dumped carelessly in the dust.
“And there’s this, too, Alfred.”
“This” was a chaff-bag with a long neck
twisted into a very thick sort of rope. But
the bottom quarter of it was weighted
with bottles of beer. Alfred would take
the neck of the bag low down—but not
put it on the ground.
“What I owe you, Deek?”
“Leave it now, Alfred. Fix up to-
morrow. Have to hurry how.”
And Dick went on to Rowland’s.
That was all regular like clockwork.
In the chaff-bag would be a dozen of
beer —sometimes more. Alfred would
take both bags inside the shed, and dump
the sugar-bag with a bang on a bench
that wasn’t too full of other things, and
then take the chaff-bag to his skillion.
And break a drought that might easily
have been going on the last hour or so.
I said it was a strength with him rather
than a weakness. But beer did get Alfred
into one sort of inconvenience, and it
went like this.
Alfred had a car —used to have a car,
I mean, a big one that he fixed up. And
could Alfred drive! He loved speed.
And that’s how the police got him—
drunk, and dangerous driving, so they
said. You see, every so often Alfred
would streak down to Little Pitt. It was
a form of outing. Down there he’d pull
in at the Settlers’ Arms, and take up his
position at the bar. As near the beer-
pump as he could —he was always con-
siderate like that, for it saved Mrs. O’Neill
or Paddy a lot of trouble.
Then he’d plank down a pound.
“Change, Alfred?” Paddy would say
after the first pot.
“No, not, Paddee.”
And there Alfred would stay till the
pound was finished. Not guzzling, or
swilling, or anything like that, mind.
Just steady drinking. And I do believe
it did Alfred good. The drive and the
fresh air and all, I mean. And it got him
away from his work for a bit. Drunk?
Not a bit —not what you’d call really
drunk. And could he handle a car when
he left the Settlers’!
It was a sight to see him go
down Nelson-street —the main street,
and a pretty busy one —in and
out all that traffic, between cars
and lorries and drays and sulkies, when
you’d swear there wasn’t room hardly to
walk, much less drive. Then round the
corner and over the bridge and up the
hill. Never an accident either.
But when the police stopped him at
last, they found seventy-two bottles of
beer in the back of the Buick. And that
seemed to weigh heavy with the magis-
trate, and he took Alfred’s licence away.
After that Alfred couldn’t drive—
except about here on rotary hoes, or a car
he was fixing for someone and just trying
her out, or on his portable sawmill. He.
did a lot of jobs in between with that
mill —and a wicked-looking thing it was,
Alfred had fitted it up—circular-saw,
bench and all —on a used-up and worn-
out old car.
On this Alfred would tear along,
rattling and bouncing, at about forty to
the hour, to some place or other. In
three minutes or so from arrival at the
woodheap, the back wheels could be
jacked up and the front wheels chocked,
and the saw going like mad through the
logs and billets.
Not many had the nerve to watch him
at that saw. I tried it once, and just
couldn’t stick it: You just knew that his
hands or his chest would be right into
that saw the next minute. But it never
happened, and sometimes Alfred would
explain the miracle.
“Vonvinger!” He’d hold up his hand
and show four fingers.
“Do vinger!” And he’d show three left.
“Your vinger!”—he’d show the thumb.
“Hant!” He’d hold his left hand
above the wrist with the right, and then
wave the left hand away.
“Dat’s vot happen dem all. Yes.
Vinger, hant in der end! Me, not.” He’d
hold up two big greasy hands, and show
the regular supply of fingers.
Of course you’d look surprised and
say “How, Alfred?”- or something like
that.
“Drunk!” says Alfred. “Not safe oder-
vise. Sober, and off der vingers go—von,
do, dree, no!” And Alfred would go
through the whole show again.
You see, Alfred always kept a bottle
of brandy just for sawing wood. It
seemed he couldn’t trust beer altogether
for a job like that.
Well, I’ll say this, it worked. In an
hour—it couldn’t have been much more,
anyway—Alfred would be tearing out
again with that crazy-looking plant —and
behind him three good tons of stove-
length. But the folks were glad to see
him go, I can tell you.
ONLY once did he have an accident.
Pretty bad one, but funny, too, in a
way; and he didn’t really have the
accident: it happened to him.
Old-man Sefton was having a
stationary engine rigged up—he’d bought
the thing pretty cheap, an old one, down
in Little Pitt. Must have been cheap for
him to buy it. Of course, Alfred had to
do the rigging-up. They had the big
heavy boiler on a truck, and with no
gear much to handle it.
No one knew exactly how it happened,
but, however it did, it wasn’t Alfred's
fault. They were easing the boiler off
the truck, Alfred on the ground and
doing three times as much as the rest put
together. Someone slipped or stumbled,
and down she came on Alfred’s foot, 'Hiey
say Old-man Sefton hopped round like a
cat on hot bricks: “You’re all right,
aren’t you, Alfred?”
You see, Old-man Sefton didn’t care so
much about Alfred, but he thought hs
might have to pay something.
“It didn’t catch you properly, did it,
Alfred?”
“Grusht, I tink,” said Alfred, very
calm, but white, too, in spite of all the
grease.
“Not so bad! Not so bad as it might
be! ” gabbled old Sefton.
“Grusht,” says Alfred.
“A drop of something—you’ll have
a drop of something, won’t you, Alfred?”
“ ’Es,” says Alfred, “A goot drop.”
Old-man Sefton had whisky in the
house,- which he kept as shire coun-
cillor, and not as Old-man Sefton
at all. He brought out about half
a bottle of it, and a tumbler.
Alfred tasted about half a tumbler of the
whisky, and then drank the rest out of the
bottle. To save time, perhaps. All the
time Old-man Sefton kept fussing round,
“Better now, better, isn’t it, Alfred?”
He took a crisp new pound note out of
his waistcoat; “And I owe you a pound,
Alfred.”
“Den pop, Mr. Zefton.”
“A pound, Alfred, a pound!”
“Den pop.”
“We’ll call it a pound, Alfred. Take it,
take it now, Alfred.”
He shoved the note into Alfred’s hand.
Alfred put the note into his pocket
absentmindediy, though his foot wasn’t
paining just then as it might, thanks to
the whisky. But didn’t it all show what a
foxy devil that Old-man Sefton was? You
see, Alfred wouldn’t be able to come at
him now for damages or compensation.
So they reckoned, anyway, though Alfred
very likely wasn’t thinking of anything
of the sort.
WELL, Alfred had a long spell in the
hospital down at Little Pitt, and a
fine old mess his foot was —all crushed
and swollen. But it got better after a while
—pretty slowly. They had Alfred on the
long verandah in a kind of chair arrange-
ment.
A lot of the chaps from Big Pitt would
look in to see him on Saturdays and Sun-
days, and other times, too. When they
happened to be down. Alfred got them
to bring along some wheels and cogs and
such things, and in no time he had that
chair on wheels. The nurses were quite
fond of Alfred, and used to humor him
and help him. Anyway, he made a
wonderful job of that chair. Too won-
derful, really. He had a winding-gear and
a bike-chain and whatnot, and a handle
to turn it all.
Speed always went to his head, as it
were, and soon he was whizzing round
that verandah and calling “Doot-doot! v
If the police had seen him they’d have
stopped him.
The nurses had to make him break
down the speed, especially round the
corner, but they didn’t have the heart to
stop him altogether.
In the end his foot healed up, and he
had only a bit of a limp which you’d
hardly notice, though he had to wear a
bigger boot on the right foot. And thee
THE ROAD.
The night is filled with voices, where are
the men
who packed this road we walk upon
carefully, stone by stone ?
It is said they were chained together,
a bond that could make for comradeship
either
or sorrow, or for sore backs in the harsh
weather.
It is easy to bring a steamroller and a
tar-spray
and lorries full of crushed stones angular
and grey;
easier than harnessing horses and going
with a dray
to chip stones from a bush quarry.
Easier than driving the first new pick into
the first old hoary
hillside. Driving a tractor is easier than
saluting Macquarie
and ten redcoats on their horses, under
the sun
hot and alien; the familiar bawdy curses
of home on your tongue —
a whole band of roadmakers chained into
one.
N.S.W.
The road began in that way, solid and
well-laid
with occasional arrows chipped in its
stone, the unsaid
curses, to remain as long as the road the
' carvers made.
The turpentines by the roadside mutter
old oaths in the wind; #
roots of them search round the white
bones of an unkind
hasty burial, and their boughs bend
and crack with sound of an ancient pain :
rheumatics learnt by saplings younger
when
the gangs were there. These trees, these
roads remain
winding, off the highways, around the
hills ,
they show where the early farms were,
and each one tells
its own stories to the wind, which the dark
distils
into voices. There are no redcoats now,
no convict gangs placing the new-hewn
stones just so,
A loose bark streamer rattles in speech
along a bough.
NANCX KEESING.


he took to sandshoes after a while. But
he did look queer otherwise —all the
grease gone, and his face as pink and
smooth as a baby’s. And the first thing
he did was to go along to Old-man
Sefton’s.
Old-man Sefton saw him coming, and
quaked a bit, I’ll bet, and thought over
a lot of cunning things that might stop
Alfred getting at him, and yet not spoil
his career as a shire-councillor,
i < I_J ULLO, Alfred! It’s good to see
n you again.”
Old-man Sefton tried to make his face
beaming and welcoming. But Alfred was
looking at the engine in its little open
lean-to near the big shed.
“Oh,” says Old-man Sefton, “Home
fixed it —‘Happy’ Home, you know, from
Little Pitt.”
“Bah-h,” says Alfred in a mild sort of
way. “All wrong, Mr. Zefton. No.”
Old-man was relieved, but scared, for
he had paid Happy for the job, and if it
was wrong he’d have to pay Alfred, too,
to fix it again.
But Alfred only said “I feex heem, Mr.
Zefton.” He did it in no time, and
wouldn’t take anything either.
Old-man Sefton said: “You must take
something, Alfred. Something—if it's
only some beer. Christmas, you know.”
Alfred said, “Orright, O.K. yes, Mr.
Zefton. No.”
Sefton sent along three bottles of beer,
and had to argue with himself not to send
six.
“All dat!” said Alfred very innocently.
“All dat! You spare it. Sure you can,
yes?”
I don’t think Sefton really understood.
Christmas was well over a month away,
which made# those three bottles of beer
funnier still,
THE peach crop was just getting into
full swing now, and Alfred invented a
grader for the peaches, which everyone
had said couldn’t be done on account of
the bruising. But Alfred’s grader, what
with felt and springs, was tenderer on
those peaches than a woman’s fingers.
Then everyone wanted a grader when
they saw how they worked, and Alfred
was busy day and night making them.
Alfred >yas leading a normal life again,
and Dick Clark could hardly bring up
enough beer to keep the graders going.
To make up the deficiency,.Mrs. O’Neill
at the Settlers’, down in Little Pitt, sent
up a whole truck-load. The O’Neills
were decent in that way, and very oblig-
ing.
All this time Old-man Sef ton’s three
bottles stood on a shelf in the skillion.
Alfred must have had a queer sort of
humor at times.
Well, Alfred must have made pots of
money out of the graders, and they were
so good that someone said “You ought
to patent them, Alfred. If you don’t
somebody else will, sure as eggs.”
“Batent!” says Alfred. “No, not.
Efferyvon der grater has,” which was true
enough. Everyone with peaches in Big
Pitt had one of Alfred’s graders. Alfred
didn’t seem to think that they grew
peaches anywhere else.
That Christmas Alfred had a heap of
empties at the back nearly as big as the
junk-heap—would have been bigger, I
do believe, if the empty-bottle merchant
down in Little Pitt hadn’t sent up a truck
from time to time.
In a way, too, Alfred was proud of
his heap of empties, and was half-in-
clined not to let that bottle-merchant
have them. Still, he did, but, as a sort of
souvenir or something, he kept all the
metal-tops and made a pathway of them
by putting them, points down, from the
back door towards the junk-heap.
A lovely path they made —a yard wide
and all jammed together tight. Artistic
too, for there were yellow-tops in strips
on the outside, then a broad band of
silvery ones in between, with the red ones
like stars and diamonds in the centre;
He made three yards long of that path
over Christmas. That is the month before,
and a month or so after.
Certainly some of the chaps helped him
—came along and lent a hand by empty-
ing the bottles to provide the tops, I
mean. But Alfred allowed no one to
tinker with his path; he did all that
himself. And all the time Old-man
Sefton’s three bottles stayed on the
skillion shelf , . .
IT was beer that brought Mrs. Shane
1 into Alfred’s life. Mrs. Shane lived
behind the Seftons by the Little Pitt
road. Not much of a place really, and
how Mrs. Shane lived off it was a
mystery. She was a widow—Shane, her
husband, had run the place in a sort of
a way when he was alive, keeping a job
on the council, too: and both activities
must have been made harder by the un-
fortunate fact that Councillor Sefton was
their near neighbor.
Not a bad sort of a woman, this Mrs.
Shane, thirty-five or thereabouts, plump
and pleasant in her ways and pretty, too.
And she was skilled in the arts of making
hop and ginger-beer, and tried her hand
at other brews. She made orange wine,
and she made beer in her bath.
When Alfred came out of hospital she
sent some over to him, with jellies and
pickles and suchlike delicacies calculated
to tempt the appetite of a convalescent.
She sent nephew or niece over with them,
and Alfred said “Yim”—-or “Yinny,” as
the case might be —“tell Mrs. Zhane dank
you. Very, very nice. No.” Not that
he cared very much for the jellies and
cakes, but he was partial to a special kind
of soup Mrs. Shane sent over. And very,
very fond of the beer. He drank gallons
of it, eventually, and Mrs. Shane kept on
cheerfully brewing it.
MRS. SHANE had her hands full
managing her place, small as it was.
Most of the menfolk roundabout were
willing to lend her a hand, and might
have done more for her but for their
wives.
But, just the same, one or other of the
men —perhaps old Charlie Twogood—
would run his rotary across the road, and
go through her bit of orchard with it.
And she’d say—“ Charlie, that is too good
of you—and you really oughtn’t.” And
Charlie, in his slow way, would turn this
over in his mind, and then laugh with
real pleasure and conceit: “I can’t help
being Twogood.” She’d say “You are
too quick on the uptake, Charlie.”
That was a new expression—the uptake
part, I mean, and she was very fond of
using it. Or it might be Wal Greener.
He’d turn up, and say “There’s just a
bit of spray left in the tank, and it's a
pity to waste it. Put it on that lemon-
bed.” Of course, the tank was brimful,
and when Wal had used that he’d go back
and fill up again till the job was finished.
“I can’t thank you enough, Walter,”
she’d say.
“No need to, Mrs. Shane” —it always
went like that—“it was a shame to waste
the stuff when it was there.”
“Mrs. Greener well, I hope?” she'd
say.
“ She’s well,” Wal would reply without
very much relish. Then add as a piece of
unnecessary information, “She’s gone
down to Little Pitt for the day.”
WHEN there was any sort of a dance
on up at the hall Mrs. Shane’d be
there. And could she dance! She never
sat any out; and the women who’d laugh
with “not now,” “not up to it any more,”
“I used to love it once,” and had to sit out
anyhow—they took no particular pleasure
in seeing Mrs. Shane whirling round.
Alfred often used to go along to
the dances. He didn’t dance, and he
never went inside, but used to keep near
the door, leaning over the fence in front,
and smoke one cigarette after another,
and watch the dancing. He was dressed
as always in his working clothes and that
old cap on his head.
“Not dancing tonight, Alfred?” a
young chap would say. Someone always
said that.
“Me! No. Not now. Yes.” And a
smile would come right out of his blue
eyes. There’d be a drop or two in the
bushes somewhere, as there always was,
and Alfred didn’t mind having some of
that. But he didn’t dance, though he
loved watching the others. Especially
Mrs. Shane, we somehow gathered. »
“Lighf as der fedder —he really knew
how to dance,” Alfred was heard to say.
MRS. SHANE continued to make
beer, and Alfred continued to drink
it. And this caused a good deal of
comment and discussion. “I hope,” said
Mrs. Wright to her husband, “I hope,
John, you haven’t tasted that stuff.” And
poor Johnny said “What stuff is that,
mother?”
“As if you don’t know! That filthy
beer that woman makes in a bath-tub.”
“What woman is that, mother?”
“You know well enough. That Shane
woman! A creature, I call her.”
“She’s making beer, is she, mother?”
You see, this Johnny made a pretence
of being, terribly stupid—that was to give
him time to think, and as a sort of pro-
tection; though I don’t think it helped
him very much, either.
There was Mrs. Hudson —great
friend of Mrs. Wright’s when there was
something to pick on. Mrs. Hudson said
the beer was illegal: “She’s got no licence
to go making beer.”
“Sly-grog sort of thing,” said Mrs,
Wright.
“It’s all that, and it makes no difference
whether she sells it or not. She’s got no
licence,”
“She ought to be reported,” said Mrs.
Wright.
“And I’ve a good mind to do it
myself,” said Mrs. Hudson. “Easy as
easy, too. All you have to do is send a
nonimous letter to the Customs people,
and they do the rest.”
“Well, all I can say,” said Mrs. Wright,
“is that it would be good enough for
her.”
“Ah, well, she’s doing it all for that
Dane, I suppose,” said Mrs. Hudson.
“Just breaking her neck after him, she
is.
“It’s a wonder he doesn’t see through
it. But being a Dane I suppose he
doesn’t.”
“Someone ought to tell him all about
her,” said Mrs. Hudson.
Then they both sighed, and wondered,
no doubt, what there was to tell.
'”THIS Mrs. Wright was a big powerful
I woman and very masterful, with a
face like sandstone that’s been cleaned off
with sandsoap —the sort of face you
could strike matches on, or think of strik-
ing matches on. Because of it and
everything we felt sorry in a way for
Johnny.
"You can have a spell now , Miss, while I have a smoke”
It doesn’t seem that the anonymous
letter was sent, for Mrs. Shane went on
with her beer and her orange wine. And
Alfred was seen across there quite a deal.
He put in a grader for the peaches, not
that she had any peaches worth speaking
about. And a newfangled grader for eggs.
And he put a hot-water affair in
the house that ran on charcoal. And he
raised the tank and put a pipe from it
into the kitchen. And no end of handy
things.
“I just bet she doesn’t pay him any-
thing,” said Mrs. Wright.
“Not money, anyway,” said Mrs. Hud-
son.
“You mean beer, of course,” said Mrs.
Wright slyly.
“I do mean beer,” said Mrs. Hudson.
“And other ways too. I’d not be sur-
prised.”
Then they both said “Um!” and
laughed.
About this time a big change came
over Alfred. He actually got a new suit —
socks and hat and all —and at a distance
he looked like anyone else, but closer up
he was hideous. He looked more natural,
and better all round, in working-clothes.
So the whole district watched the pair
of them, and took tab of every move.
Alfred worked as hard as ever, and got
his supply of beer from Sid Clark, and
drank up the brew at Mrs. Shane’s when
it was ready, and sometimes before it was
quite ready, till it might seem that Alfred
was only interested in Mrs. Shane as far
as the home-brew went. But that didn’t
explain Mrs. Shane at all, for why should
she keep on making the stuff if she wasn’t
after something?
Anyway, it went on for quite a while.
And all that happened, so far as could be
gathered, was that he made a bed for Mrs.
Shane out of maple—he was as good at
that sort of thing as anything else. It was
a double-bed certainly, but then her old
bed was a double one, too. So that
mightn’t signify. Still, Mrs. Wright said
“He’s not doing that for nothing.” And
Mrs. Hudson said “No, indeed!”
ALL these doings and surmises natur-
ally intrigued the young bloods of
the district. A crowd of them were over
at Alfred’s place one March Sunday
admiring the bottle-top pathway and
helping Alfred drink his beer when young
Harry Sefton—son of Councillor Sefton—
cocked his smart head to one side and
said “You must feel it a bit cold these
nights, Alfred?”
“Coldt, no not,” said Alfred.
Old Rowland, who was there, too—he
often went over for a drink and a yarn
with Alfred —old Rowland tried to tip
Harry a wink. But Harry took it as en-
couragement —being so conceited. All
the other young fellows just looked on
and waited to see how things went.
They’d follow Harry’s lead if it looked
all right.
“Well, I don’t know, Alfred, but we
all reckon you must be pretty in that
shed of yours. And lonely, too.”
“No, Kerry, not. I see blenty gompany
all der day.”
“That’s good, Alfred. And
too. Sometimes at night, I guess.”
“Somedimes, Kerry.”
Harry winked at the others. This
was going pretty well. Old Rowland
frowned, but Harry didn’t care for that.
Just see if he couldn’t get a bit of fun
out of Alfred.
“You are a sly dog, I think, Alfred.”
“Dock, Kerry! I don’t know what you
mean,” said Alfred, very innocently.
“Oh, you know well enough, Alfred.
You’re not over there all alone all the
time.”
Alfred looked puzzled. “I tink, Kerry,
you von funny man, no.”
Alfred said this so mildly that there
could be nothing wrong to it. But Harry
wasn’t quite so sure of himself now. Still,
he laughed his loud “I-know-all-about-it
sort of laugh, just to show he had put
something over Alfred. The others
laughed, too —not quite so loudly.
Alfred looked more puzzled. “Get
along with you, Alfred, and don’t get
upset about the little things we find out.
Be a sport, Alfred, and put it there.”
That was like Harry, too, always doing
silly things like that. He held out his
hand, and Alfred looked at it as if he
wondered what to do with it.
“Shake!” said Harry. “Shake, Alfred!”
“Yes, Kerry, I shake.” And with a
childish sort of smile, Alfred took Harry s
hand. He didn’t seem to squeeze hard
either, but something went crack.
“Gawd!” yelled Harry. “You’ve broken
my hand!”
He had, too. Harry went hopping
round, holding his right hand, sick and
pale with the pain of it. No one was
more surprised than Alfred. But no one
tried such liberties again. And neither
Harry nor Old-man Sefton sued Alfred
for compensation.


SUNDRY SHOWS
"Love Me, Sailor."
There are two surprising
things about this entertaining
play. The first is that it is being
performed in a large tent be-
hind the Sydney Stadium at
Rushcutter Bay. That, of course,
may not be so surprising to those
who have explored back alleys
and lanes of the city or trekked
out into the wilds of the suburbs
in search of good theatre; if it
isn’t, then it is at least pleasantly
surprising to find hpw well a tent
has been made to seryo the pur-
pose of a theatre —it is large and
comfortably appointed with new
upholstered seats; it is also
cleaner and more airy than most
theatres.
The second surprise is that
such an interesting play should
have sprung from such a poor
novel. The book could be
charged with so many literary
sins of omission and commis-
sion, including dullness, lack of
humor and little or no charac-
terisation, that it was reasonable
to anticipate the play, having
nothing else to lean on, would
depend to some extent on the
notoriety attached to Close and
his novel. That it doesn’t —it
has drama, humor, some excel-
lent character studies and could
not, by any stretch of imagina-
tion, be called dull—can doubt-
less be attributed to Close and
Kenneth Hudson-Youdale, who
collaborated in writing the play ;
to competent direction and even
better acting ; and to a generally
good production which includes
William Constable’s admirable
sets and remarkably smooth and
fast changes of scene.
The most incredible character
in the book was the woman,
Ella Miller. An author, no
doubt, can take any latitude he
likes with such an unpredictable
character as a mentally-
unbalanced female and still claim
realism or credibility, but it was
not that Close’s Ella was in-
credible so much as unconvinc-
ing. She was, rather than a pic-
ture of a distorted woman, a dis-
torted picture, Ella’s madness,
although considerably broken
down, is still a weakness in the
play and an obstacle which
Diana Perryman never quite
clears except in the final scene.
The early symptoms she is sup-
posed to register clenched
hands, flashing eyes and flying
off the deep end at the mention
of the Almighty, and so forth—
were stagey and unconvincing.
It would have been better for
both the book and the play if,
instead of being depicted as a
complex and incredible mixture
of madness and sexual abnor-
mality, Ella had been a loose-
living wench or a common pros-
titute, Then the story—of her
being run out of a port by the
harbormaster’s wife for, carrying
on with the harbormaster, and
of the subsequent ructions on
the sailing-ship which takes her
to San Francisco—could have
flowed on naturally enough in
an uncomplicated course of
earthy comedy.
Actually the play runs close
to that pattern of comedy, which
is probably why it succeeds
where the sordid attempted
realism of the book failed, Ella,
of course, is devoid of humor,
which is unfortunate, but Diana
Perryman, particularly in the
final scenes, injects sufficient
fear and passion and temper into
the character to make it live
most of the time. It is, in fact,
one of the best performances
Miss Perryman has done —much
more relaxed and emotional than
her usual slightly-rigid style.
The men were surprisingly
good, with Eric Reiman’s big
raw Swede dominating the cast
and Jerom6 . Levy’s hard, rough
second mate running him close.
Edgar Yardley’s Irishman, with
his obsession for his caul and his
despair on losing it, was filled in
to the last line.
In its rough bawdy humor the
play is remarkably like “Rusty
Bugles,” currently showing at
the Independent Theatre, North
Sydney. Both plays depict
groups of men more or less iso-
lated from civilisation and both
represent their behavior and con-
versation in pretty much the
same way and pretty accurately.
That conversation and behavior
and humor is common in pubs,
factories, mines, camps and, pre-
sumably, ships. It has an Eliza-
bethan force about it, and it is
both important and significant
that it should be brought to the
stage. It doesn’t represent the
whole Australian scene, and it
doesn’t necessarily have to be
concentrated into one play. But
much can grow from it. and
much can be gained from injec-
tions of it into Australian drama.
Moor and Moor.
With the Canterbury (N.Z.)
Student Players setting-up shop
at the Union Theatre, University
of Melbourne, the city has had
two Moors in the one week and
many more Moors may be con-
fidently expected since Anew
McMaster set the Othello
fashion going at the Princess
Theatre.
It would be a very captious
critic who would start trying to
differentiate between the quality
of McMaster’s Othello and that
of Paul Molineaux’s, though in
style they were entirely different.
McMaster’s jealousy was hot and
blowing, while the emotions of
Molineaux were smouldering
and smothered, but to the
present commentator they ap-
peared equally living.
Othello isn’t a complex char-
acter, like Hamlet. He is as
simple as a glass of water, and
there is no room for modern
interpretations vide Freud, such
as Laurence Olivier gave to his
Dane. He believes as implicitly
in the morality of his day, and
feels as justified in his jealous
rage as any suburban husband.
He hasn’t any of the doubts of
Hamlet. In fact, the whole play
is plain sailing for any com-
petent band of players, and the
Canterbury Players seemed just
as competent as the Stratford
body, better in some ways and
not so good in others.
The lago of Alan de Mal-
manche was inclined to bellow,
and the Cassio of John Jenkins
was somewhat limping, but the
Emilia of Pamela Mann was ad-
mirably rendered. Brigid Leni-
han’s Desdemona was suitably
appealing.
The present writer preferred
the Canterbury Players’ settings.
They were obviously derived
from contemporary painting,
hence they had associations for
him. The costumes invented by
Marjorie McMaster had no
associations for him, though that
doesn’t mean that they were
necessarily unlovely. It is in-
teresting to note that the New
Zealanders’ diction was so clear
that hardly a sentence was lost
of Shakspeare’s poetry, whereas
the Stratford people sacrificed
the sentences for the feeling. Yet
the sense was given equally well
in both cases.
Pirandello.
“Six Characters in Search of
an Author,” first put on by the
late Gregan McMahon, was re-
vived by the Canterbury Student
Players at -the Union Theatre,
University of Melbourne. It
would be difficult to imagine a
better performance, although, by
and large, Pirandello’s opus is
muchj ado about very little.
The Italian playwright con-
trasts the artificiality of the
theatre with the reality of the
artist’s creation, and he does it
by materialising a husband, a
wife who has left him and had
three children by her lover —two
of them subnormal and one girl
who goes on the streets, and is
unwittingly courted by her step-
father —and a Madame Pace.
The six characters are formed
in an author’s mind, and inter-
rupt a band of actors rehearsing
a trashy melodrama and demand
presentation. To make the con-
fusion worse confounded they
insist on worrying out their
emotional relations as the play
progresses. Not having yet been
given artistic form they are like
the colors on a painter’s palette
arguing as to their relative posi-
tions in the finished picture.
Pirandello is as monstrously
clever in working the thing out
as a surrealist painter, but the
result leaves the observer with a
vague feeling of irritation at get-
ting so little of the drama adum-
brated by the six characters look-
ing for somebody to tell their
story.
Paul Molineaux showed his
versatility by turning from
Othello to the role of the pro-
ducer-manager driven frantic by
the rival claims of reality and
stage convention, Bernard
Kearns, Brigid Lenihan, Mary-
rose Miller, William Scanned,
Rodney Kennedy and Patience
Maclean gave uncanny life to
the characters they represented.
Duo-pianists.
Messrs. Rawicz and Landauer,
continuing to delight Sydney
with their two - keyboard
wizardry, tossed the terpsicho-
rean ball from one to the other
with the deftness of jugglery
in their arrangement of Tchai-
kowsky’s “Nutcracker Suite.”
Even shorn of the colorings in-
herent in the orchestral score,
these dances retained their in-
effable charm, despite tempo
which didn’t always sit square
with the originals. The Classical
That fellow in the front stalls who sends you the orchids
—do you like him ?”
and Romantic schools were
attractively blended in the
scherzo from Mendelssohn’s
Midsummer Night s Dream,”
a transcription which made no
concessions to the flamboyant.
Liszt s Liebestraum seemed
even less ornate under the four
hands than it does under two,
which is a tribute to the good
taste of these clever arrangers,
Dvorak s Slavonic Dance No.
8 combined Bohemian grace and
vigor, while in Offenbach’s
Orpheus in Hades the duo let
sheer dynamics have their fling,
working up to quite an exciting
climax. One of the most fas-
cmatmg essays in pure rhythms
was Rawicz s own composition,
„
Kathleen Goodall s well-con-
trolled soprano coped adequately
with the legato phrasing of
Handel s Where er You Walk,”
and she achieved her most
artistic singing of the series with
some excellent mezza voce in
Mozarts Alleluia.”
Melbourne Tiv.
The Bourke-street emporium
will be all-out for the current
year if it has to maintain the
standard of its first new bill of
the season. “Starry Nights” isn’t
altogether a misnomer. One of
the most remarkable turns seen
for a long time is the bald-
headed little man, George Andre
Martin, who calls himself “The
Man with the Dancing Fingers.”
With the simple apparatus of a
black-topped table, a spotlight,
his first and dexter fingers and
a few scraps of muslin, he suc-
ceeds in giving the illusion of a
pair of dancers, who foxtrot,
tapdance, tango and perform
passionate ballets and even ex-
press sex-appeaL Hs is the direct
antithesis of the preceding
comedian, who requires an organ
and an atom-bomb explosion to
give point to the wisecrack.
Another topliner is Maurice
Colleano, an Australian who re-
turns to his native land after
25 years and Royal Command
performances. In the garb of an
able-seaman Mr. Colleano ties
running bowlines and reef-knots
with his body, and succeeds in
surrounding his fantastic ges-
tures with a subtle emotional
aroma.
Another returned Australian
is Tod Hilton, the Adelaide air-
man whom Lawrence Tibbett
recommended to go abroad. He
has come back with a baritone
capable of making itself heard
in a Parliamentary debate on
disimmigration and colored a
romantic purple.
Ivor Moreton and Dave Kaye
bring strains out of two grand
pianos at a tempo which Back-
haus never equalled.
Five-guinea Pictures.
Oils, watercolors and pen- and
pencil-sketches on view at Syd-
ney Macquarie Galleries are
offered to the public at five
guineas each. The price appears
to be reasonable.
True, a waterfront tally-clerk
could earn (slightly) more in
Sydney on the day preceding
the opening of the exhibition,
which happened to be the date
of a wharfies’ picnic. But then
art in Australia, despite occa-
sional high prices paid by Gal-
leries and private persons for
pictures by well-known artists,
is not nearly so rewarding as
some industrial and commercial
callings; and, perhaps, it never
will be.
In any case, most of the pic-
tures at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, irrespective of medium,
are sketches or sketchy. John
D. Moore has an “Oil Sketch
on Paper,” excellent as far as
it goes, but it does not go far
enough. D. Orban’s “Giant
Lilies” is a sketch in black-and-
white, with deep shadows, a
hint of mystery and a quantity
of scratchy lines. The picture
would look very well reproduced
on good-quality paper, as an
illustration for a short story in
which lilies and mystery play
an appropriate part, but it seems
unfit to stand alone. It has,
however, more vigor than Enid
Cambridge’s “Wet Day,” which
is bright and rather smudgy—a
sketch in color. William Dobell
has a minute pencilled “Boy’s
Head,” which, in its special
category —as a thumbnail sketch
—is charming, and J. Carrington
Smith has a pleasant sketch of
an old barn.
Not all the pictures, natur-
ally, fit neatly into this generali-
sation. Dorothy Thornhill’s
“Canberra Landscape,” though
small, is a careful piece of work
with detail pleasantly, but un-
subtly, recorded. Ronald Millen
has a surprised and indignant
fish gaping from a large plate ;
there is imagination in the dish,
and it is not sketchy; but the
result seems scarcely worth
while.
Nor have landscapes by
Douglas Annand, Douglas Dun-
das, George Duncan, Paul
Haefliger, Jean Isherwood,
George Lawrence, Rita Mc-
Kenzie and Roland Wakelin
any considerable merit. The
flowerpieces are slightly better;
two by Joy Ewart and Adrian
Feint being the most striking;
although these, too, are some-
what thin. And although a
“Figure Study” by Loudon
Sainthill is no more sketchy
than a variety of other semi-
abstract and decorative pictures
from the same brush, the pic-
ture is, essentially, scrappy. In
this particular case there are two
figures, one female, nude and
drooping, the other in male
fancy-dress costume and both
equipped with what has come to
be a recognisable characteristic
of Mr. Sainthill’s figures— 'ex-
pressions of blank idiocy.
A Paul Jones basket of fruit
cannot be dismissed as a sketch;
it is small and dark, and meti-
culous with a lush green and a
subdued sparkle coming out of
the darkness; but it is also
slightly unreal and the fruit, like
Ronald Millen’s fish, is not in-
tended for the glory of human
consumption.
Robert Campbell’s “D r y
Weather” and Yvonne du
Moulin’s “Rogan’s Corner,
Castle Hill,” are the two out-
standing pictures in the exhibi-
tion. There is, however, a
recognisable gap between them.
Campbell’s landscape, the better
of the two, with its dry browns,
smoky trees and grey thumb-
nails of smoke puffing up from
the background of hills, is very
nearly perfect, in its small com-
pass. Yvonne du Moulin’s
painting, with something of the
lightning quality of a good
sketch in it, succeeds in con-
centrating telegraph-post, street,
glimpse of motor-car and patch
of white horse in, as it were, a
corner. The focal point is the
old building, drawn with humor
and observation, with its hat
about its ears. Yvonne du
Moulin draws and paints old
buildings very well.
Vanishing Craftsmen.
“F.S.”: An exhibition of
examples of rural handicrafts
still extant in Britain, sponsored
by the British Council at the
Velasquez Galleries, Melbourne,
is a melancholy witness to the
inroads modern industry has
made on a nation which once
led the World in beautiful crafts
of all descriptions. Where are
the stonemasons who covered
the land with churches and
cathedrals, the woodcarvers who
decorated them with magnificent
carvings and the peasants who
couldn’t whittle a scythe sneath
without making it look lovely?
The race, apparently, mysteri-
ously died out. It survives in
isolated places—in the Bedford-
shire bargees’ painted tinware,
the thill harness of southern
England, the fishermen’s jerseys
of Staithes, Yorkshire, the corn-
dollies the Essex farm-laborers
make at the conclusion of the
harvest, and which belong to the
fertility rites of the pagan era,
the rush horse - collars of
Norfolk, the slipware pottery of
Gloucestershire and the fishing
coracles used on the Welsh lakes.
Even these lack fhe quality of
the work of the Middle Ages.
It is a sad commentary on our
alleged progress that the crafts-
man of those days, who no
doubt worked long hours on low
wages and didn’t have radios or
hot showers in his workshop,
was fulfilled in what he pro-
duced, whereas the modern
workman, for all his short hours,
high wages, penalty rates and
what not, isn’t fulfilled in any-
thing he produces, and has to
seek his recreation at night-trots
and football matches.
The Australian Postal Institute
Musical Society’s producer,
Robert Smith (who is also its ex-
cellent natural comedian), did a
smooth job in his production at
Sydney Con. of “The Quaker
Girl.” Among a generally sound
cast Nancy Luciano was a
Princess Mathilde with a sym-
pathetic soprano, Nada Conrad
was a vivacious Madame Blum,
and Iris Lewis a demure Quaker
Girl with a mezzo of clarity.
Sally Speight’s comedy suffered
from lack of variety in her
actions. The men were parti-
cularly convincing.


mm
u
m
♦
i
k*
7/
, rt M\W
ov s
koW
. . . whether
you feel like cool, long drinks
or short, sharp appetisers,
GILBEY’S is the gin. Always
pack a Bottle of Gilbey’s in the ice box
when you go out for the day and be sure
to keep one handy at home for friends
who ‘ drop-in.’
Don’t say Gm-~say
G/6070
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method of control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, hold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BAEKEEE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 25w), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney
Kuv'mon
SANDERS!
Correspondence, Invoices.
statements. filed In (he
"Sanders** can be securely
bound and converted Into d
perfect book of reference at
the end of each month —0»
Prices and tot*
Iher information
open application
any other period*
Jackson & O’Sullivan Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agtatt —
SYDNEY . t
MELBOURNE . »
ADELAIDE * *
W C. Penfold A Co. P*T- Ctd.
„ Normon Bren Ftp. let*.
„ Vordoa A Sou tW.
\
l» I
L
Ancestors
of an
Industry
Sir William Crookes is best known to the
layman for his startling prophecy, in 1898, that
exhaustion of the Chilean nitrate deposits would
lead to world starvation unless alternative sources
of nitrogen compounds were discovered. Amongst
scientists he is recognised as one of the fathers of
spectroscopy —the analysis of light into its com-
ponent wavelengths. This has many important
applications, especially in industry, where it en-
ables routine tests to be made with great speed
and accuracy. Crookes also discovered thallium,
an element resembling lead, and invented the
Crookes Tube which was the forerunner of the
modern X-ray tube.
A Londoner, Crookes was born in 1832, and
educated at Chippenham Grammar School in Wilt-
shire. He studied at the Royal College of Chemis-
try and was later employed in the meterological
department of the Radcliffe Observatory, Oxford.
Returning to London in 1856, he started publica-
tion of “The Chemical News,” a journal of which
he remained editor-proprietor for nearly half a
century. - He was frequently consulted by the
Government on scientific matters, and at various
times served as President of the Royal Society,
the British Association, and the
Institution of Electrical Engineers.
He was knighted in 1897, and was
one of the original members of the
Order of Merit.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
ICI
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM.
With many Oakleigh, Newmarket
and Australian Cup candidates en-
gaged, racing at Flemington on Satur-
day was full of interest, and big fields
were the order of the day. There
were some 14Q acceptors for the card
of seven races.
A field of 28 facing the starter,
the six-furlongs Paddock Handicap
looked a racp merely to watch, without
financial interest. However, punters
took the tip when Gay Archer, who
would have been strongly fancied,
was scratched and his stablemate
High Play left to carry the stable
cash. High Play went out favorite
at 4 to 1 and duly lent support to
the old racing adage “The bigger the
field the greater the certainty.”
With V. Hartney in the saddle,
High Play gave a brilliant display to
win by three lengths from Sentiment,
who just shaded Law List. High
Play singled out from the big field
a long way from home and was at
no stage even threatened with defeat.
Werribee trainer S. Murphy has a
great hand in the Newmarket with
Gay Archer and High Play. High
Play was bred in New Zealand,
where, prior to coming here a couple
of years back, he won several races
and ran second in the New Zealand
Derby.
Whatever bookmakers may have
had to pay out on High Play they
were amply repaid by the success of
Colin (W. A. Smith) at 25 to 1 in
the Brookside Handicap. Several
Australian Cup hopefuls ran in the
Brookside, distance of which was 13
furlongs. However, the betting was
12 to 1 bar one, with Dashing Beau
an odds-on favorite. The Dashing
Cavalier four-year-old went very
close to justifying the general con-
fidence reposed in him, but, in a
rattling finish, was beaten a half-head
by Colin —a more or less unknown
quantity from the bush. Though he
carried a featherweight of 7.3, Colin’s
performance was an excellent one.
With only a short way to go he was
headed, but came on again—a
thoroughly game effort. Colin was
not entered for the • Australian Cup,
which is not surprising; he won his
first race, a Maiden at Geelong,
barely a month ago.
Of the others in the Brookside
Handicap, Sydney visitor Bolivia ran
a sound race for his first run in
Melbourne. As mentioned here a
couple of months back, Bolivia is
this page’s fancy for the Cup.
Other results on Saturday to bring
joy and profit to the bookies were
those of the Iramoo Handicap (7f.)
for three-year-olds, and the mile
Gooparle Welter. The grey Nizami
filly Novam (G. Bougoure), dropped
rather too hastily by most punters
after a couple of recent failures, made
an excellent job of beating a strong
field in the Iramoo Handicap, for
which she started at 16 to 1. St.
Hubert and King Simeon were closest
at the finish. Savant (C. Waymouth),
who won the Welter, started at 33
to 1 with the books, but, returning
a dividend of £l7 for five shillings,
paid more than twice those odds on
the tote.
On the other side of the account,
Lady Pirouette beating other two-
year-old fillies over five furlongs, and
the South Australian colt St. Comedy
accounting for their brethren, were
both solid favorites. Lady Pirouette’s
success in the Criterion Handicap
was her third jn a row; she beat
Valsari, Charkha and thf 1 nrW'ou«iv-
unbeaten Adela. St. Comedy (R.
Heather) in the Stanhope Handicap
displayed remarkable early speed. He
started from No. 16 post position in
a field of 23, yet, tyithin less than a (i
furlong, had crossed to the rails and
was well clear.
* * * * *
There seems to be an unfortunate
comment on present Sydney racing
in the fact that, week after Iveek, the
principal races of the day attract
miserably poor fields, while restricted
and other poorer-class events see
scores of entries; Mixed Stakes over
sprint distances almost invariably
attract over 100 entries. At Rand-
wick on Saturday there were six
starters in the Glenfield Handicap
and seven in the Warwick February
Handicap. There were, per contrast,
21 starters in the Novice and 22 in
the Welter.
Leading .iders N. Sellwood and J.
Thompson gave their followers a
costly afternoon at Randwick. Be-
tween them they rode six favorites
from seven races and landed one
winner—Spearex in the February
Handicap.
Sellwood rode. Spearex, who was
a 9-to-4 favorite, and had an easy
win. With the pace very slow,
Spearex bowled along comfortably at
the tail of the field to the turn, made
his run in the straight, and had the
race well in his keeping at the dis-
tance. Without looking a danger to
the winner, Mentone finished much
the best of the others to land second
money, and Regal Son was a poor
third.
Spearex, it is said, is to be set
for the £lO,OOO Sydney Cup. The
aged Spearfelt horse has won some
moderate races in the past (mostly
during the winter) but he’d need to
beat a lot better fields than Satur-
day’s to have a show in the Cup.
Two of Thompson’s unsuccessful
mounts were the stablemates Caruso
and Grand Romance, both owned by
Romano and trained by H. Plant.
They were hot favorites for their
respective races, but, while Grand
Romance made some sort of a show-
ing by finishing second to New-
borough in the 1 hree-year-old Handi-
cap, Caruso, after having every
opportunity, ran stone last in the
seven-furlongs Glenfield Handicap.
In the Glenfield, the aged country
mare Blue Tulip showed that her
Rosehill win the previous week was
no fluke. Ridden by Briscoe, Blue
Tulip finished well, after holding a
good position all the way, to down
the strongly-fancied Mine Host by a
long neck. Receiving a 51b. allow-
ance for apprentice J. Waterhouse,
Mine Host still carried topweight of
8.12, and, after leading from the start,
made a game attempt to hold off
Blue Tulip, to whom he was conced-
ing 151 b. Back from a long spell
following a breakdown, old Silent
showed that he may yet have a few
wins in him by coming home strongly
into third place; a longer journey
will better suit him. Both Caruso
and, despite his narrow defeat, Mine
Host give the impression that they
have had about enough racing for
the present.
Newborough’s success in the mile
Three-year-old Handicap was the
Emborough colt’s first since, more
than a year ago, he showed great
promise by winning at his first three
starts as a two-year-old. As in his
earlier wins, Newborough finished on
stoutly from well back in the field
and beat Grand Romance easily. A
swab was taken from Newtforough
after his win, and, to give the public
some insight to their present con-
troversial methods, the A.J.C. allowed
a newsreel company to film the
proceedings.
A.J.C. handicapper Fred Wilson
must have taken some professional
pride in fhe rousing finish provided
by the Ingleburn Juvenile for two-
year-old colts and geldings. And, by
the same token, judge Claude Martin
must have been grateful that he had
the camera to call on. Spread right
across the track, six horses, with
weights ranging 7.13 to 9st., hit the
line with less than two lengths cover-
ing them —there was little more than
a head between the first three. Sort-
ing them out, the camera showed
Marwari (V. Faggotter) to have
beaten Navda by a head, with Double
Sea a nose further back third.
Closest of the others was Captain
Theo —a promising effort after being
well out of his ground earlier.
The Berala Novice went to a well-
fancied runner in Firearm, a four-
year-old son of Enfield, but the other
two races run on Saturday provided
skinners for the books. Elusive (R.
Selkrig) started to 25 to 1 to beat
other two-year-old fillies in the Col-
lingwood Nursery, and Circus Boy
(V. Faggotter), having his first run
since June last year, won the Sunny-
brook Handicap at 33 to 1.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances) :
Nursery Handicap; Captain Theo,
1; Tantalus, 2; Marwari, 3, Nur-
sery Handicap (fillies): Favour, 1;
Starlet, 2; Sweet Sherry, 3. Ashbury
Mixed (6f.): Foxzami, 1; Forman-
tera, 2; Royal Regalia, 3. Campsie
Mixed (Ilf.): High Ideals, 1; Grey
Phantom, 2; Arabian Prince 3.
Frank Underwood Cup: Wearie, 1;
Rifle, 2; Blue Danube, 3, Flying
Handicap: Blue Tulip, 1; Clipper,
2; Septet, 3. Welter: Forge, 1;
Newborough, 2; Lone Duke, 3.
♦ * * ♦
Until revived fairly recently by a
small bunch of enthusiasts the sport
of rowing at Sydney University had
been in a comatose state for many
years. Convincing evidence that it
is again alive and kicking was given
by the success of the Uni. eight in
the N.S.W. championship held on
the Nepean on Saturday. It was the
Students’ first success in the State
title for 40 years. Stroked by Alan
Brown, who was a member of the
R.A.A.F. eight in England, Univer-
sity rowed a fine race to down Sydney
and Haberfield. Their time for the
three miles, 16min. 16sec., was ex-
cellent, as the water was completely
dead. It seems almost unnecessary
to record that Merv. Wood won the
sculling championship,
* * * *
The young Lithgow (N.S.W.) ath-
lete Marjorie Jackson scored another
win over Fanny Blankers-Koen when
she won the N.S.W. 100yds. cham-
pionship at the Sydney Sports Ground
on Saturday. Recorded on a heavy
track, her time of llsec. equalled
the Australian record, but was not
allowed owing to assisting wind.
Mrs. Blankers-Koen stumbled and
finished out of a place in the 100yds.
race, but later won the 80-metres
hurdles in 11.45ec., tied with R.
Hallett in the discus throw (103 ft.
3in.), and with other Olympians
landed the 440yds. relay.
After his wife had missed out in
the 100yds., Jan Blankers showed deep
concern about the state of the track.
His studied approach, after the race,
to the spot where Fanny had faltered,
his meticulous examination of the
same, and his decisive jabbing thereat
with a gingham, was all rather
reminiscent of a batsman striding six
yards down the pitch to remove the
mountainous wisp of grass which has
inconveniently deflected a ball pitched
two yards beyond it.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“T.McN.”: With all its talk about
“sport,” Sydney makes little accom-
modation for amateur field sports,
the kind that dig up Olympic hopes.
One little suburban oval at Henson
Park is the only place where the
numerous and crowded amateur
athletic clubs can hold their week-end
contests, and for the youngsters —
many of them secondary-school pupils
—-the new week-end fares are a killer.
From around Vaucluse, Waverley,
Coogee, etc., fares run the enthusiasts
into 3s. a time —a hole in any lad’s
pocket-money. Work is going on
'at the new sports track at Moore
Park, but another Christmas is likely
before it is ready.
* * * *
Ex-Australian golfer Jim Ferrier
turned in a mighty round playing in
the 10,000-dollars Texas Open at
San Antonio (U.S.A.) last week. Out
in 35 and home in 30, Perrier’s round
of 65 was six under par and included
six birdies and one eagle.
♦ ♦ ♦ #
Financially, at least, the Australian
Rugby League tour of England was
a record success, clearing a profit of
£37,000. Players will receive a bonus
of £4OO per nob, which should
amply compensate for chewed ears
and other trifling injuries.
* * * *
Sheffield Shield:
In tropical weather South Australia
tackled the all-conquering N.S.W.
XI in Sydney last week, and whatever
hopes S.A. may have entertained of
topping the 603 scored in Adelaide
in 1946 (their last win v. N.S.W, in
Shield matches) were soon found to
be without substance.
Winning the toss, the visitors
naturally chose to bat on a wicket
which was perfect, but soon found
themselves in strife with three down
for 61. Hamence (31), Ridings (37)
and Bowley (25) tarried a while, but
the side was all out for 186. N.S.W.
left-hander Alan Walker turned in
another fine bowling
six wickets for 22 off 13 overs. His
habit, somewhat rare in cricket these
days, of pegging at the wicket got
four clean-bowled.
When a thunderstorm drove play-
ers to shelter, N.S.W. had lost one
wicket for 20, Burke having gone
for seven. Overnight rain made the
outfield heavy for Saturday’s play,
but the covered wicket was in good
shape. With Morris contributing
110 —his sixth century this season —
N.S.W. lifted its total to 261. Not a
particularly brilliant effort, but
N.S.W. needed only a first-innings
victory to win the Shield and their
score gave them a lead of 75. In
their second innings. South Australia
had made one run when the umpires
declared the light too poor—a move
much resented by what was left of
the crowd.
The sole bright feature of the
Westralia v. Victoria match in Mel-
bourne was a noble stand by the
Westralian tail-enders in the first
innings, when a follow-on had seemed
inevitable. After Victoria had piled
up 364, the Westerners, with eight
down for 164, were in a sorry plight;
then arose the Philistines. Puckett
(42) and Frankish (49 n. 0.) added 87
for the ninth wicket and Dunn (19)
helped lift the total to 277. Alter
that Victoria put up 227 for their
second knock, and Westralia, needing
314, had 174 at stumps, giving Vic-
toria a first-innings win.
« * * *
Albert C. Jones, dead in Sydney
last week, was one of the pillars of
umpiring in Australian and Test
cricket —his thorough knowledge did
much to lift the standard of that
difficult but essential part of the
game. One of his treasured recollec-
tions was of officiating in the fourth
Test at Melbourne in 1929, when
Larwood, after wrecking Australia by
taking 17 wickets in the previous
four Tests, was given a thrashing by
Bradman (123) and Woodfull (102)
to finish with one wicket for 168 in
the match.
♦ * * *
Jackie Wilson (9,7) and Bernie Hall
(9.10 i) furnished a willing scrap at
Leichhardt, and, by way of novelty,
the decision, in Hall’s favor, was well
received by the unpredictable Leich-
hardt patrons; it was the only pos-
sible decision. The weights as pub-
lished seemed remarkable —Wilson
looked pretty near a stone the lighter.
He bothered his opponent some-
what in the earlier rounds, but, from
the ninth onward, Hall handed out
all the punishment; actually he lost
several earlier rounds only through
excessive holding-and-hitting tactics.


For over eight years travellers have enjoyed the deep com-
fort and personal attention of T.E.A.L. service. Upon arri-
val at Auckland you disembark quickly at the most modern
air base in Australasia, only five minutes from the centre
of New Zealand‘s largest city. Book through Qantas or
any leading travel agent.
TEAL®
<> Association with 0.E.A.. 8.0.A.C.. and B.C.P.A.
Yonr choice 1. CINZANO
Vermouth, whether your taste is for
sweet or dry. CINZANO Vermouth
gives Just that extra exhilarating tang
to the palate.
ẅ
■ ra
m
“HANDY HINTS FOR THE FARM”
252 George Street, Sydney.
Embracing Wheat, Sheep, Cattle, Pigs, Poultry, Horses, Fruit
and Vegetable Growing, the Apiary and General Farm Activity.
sm YOUR NAME TG
SECURITY
i' ! -A6AIWST SHAVIN6 TROUBLES
Its a "sign of the times"—this Ingram's-
inspired anti-whisker-inflation period of
today. Be a happy shaver, and sign your
name to shaving security with Ingram’s,
the economical shaving cream. Well
over a million shrewd shavers use Ingram's
today, and the number grows ... send
for your 7 FREE shaves on Ingram's now.
Use the coupon below. Ingram's
soothes as it smoothes as it softens, and
makes shaving cares a thing of the past.
FfiOII
CHEMISTS
EVERYWHERE
i
mr
CP° V
Ingram*
SHAVING CREAM
ySMry&j&fi f ~ w *"
Bristol Myers Co. Pty. Ltd.,
223 Pacific Highway, North Sydney, N.B.W.
NAME.
ADDRESS..
J
I 182
No Investor Can Afford
To Be Without It
ECONOMIC REVIEWS
INVESTMENT ANALYSES
MINING NOTES
Single Copies . . • • > • 2/
Yearly Subscription • • • • 22/6
Published by The Bulletin Newspaper Co, Pty,, Ltd.,
252 George-street, Sydney, and all States,
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
wants.
To buy books on bulldog breed-
rig.—4555.
Bulletin staff man wants flat, fur-
lished or unfurnished, in Sydney
Metropolitan area.—4556.
To buy copies of “Life” magazine
or 1936. —4557.
Information Sought.
I have taken up oil-painting and
iave trouble with my brushes, al-
though I keep them in turpentine.
What is correct treatment ?
To keep brushes in turpentine con-
stantly spoils the texture and quality
of the bristles and ruins the shape of
he brush. The best thing for general
cleansing is water, cold or just warm,
never hot, and common kitchen soap.
Dip the brush in water and then hold
it against the bar of soap, rubbing
it from side to side, then force it
against the soap so that the bristles
are spread out. If you are painting
every day just wipe the brushes clean
on your paint-rag and wrap them in
a rag moistened either with oil or
water, giving them a soap wash once
a week. This treatment is for bristle
brushes; sables may be cleaned with
kerosene. Stand the brushes up
when not in use, handles downward
in a dry jar.
* * * *
Treatment for worms in Iambi?
Dissolve lib. bluestone in 5 gal.
of water and mix with 16 fl. oz of
40 p.c. commercial nicotine sulphate.
Dose for lambs under four months
is i fl. oz., four to eight months
i A- oz. Give each lamb a few
ounces of oats two or three times a
week.
« * * *
Method of preserving gherkins?
Gherkins must be young and ten-
der. Cover with a brine made from
lib. salt to 1 gal. water, brought to
boil and cooled. Leave for 3 days.
Strain and pack into bottles, and
cover with boiling spiced vinegar
made thus: 1 quart vinegar, }oz.
each cinnamon, cloves, mace, all-
spice and a few peppercorns; tie all
spices in muslin, add to cold vinegar
in pan, bring to boiling point, re-
move spices. Leave gherkins covered
with this vinegar for 24 hours in
warm place. Strain vinegar, re-boil
it and again pour over gherkins in
jars. Repeat until fruit is a good
green color, allowing 24 hours be-
tween each boiling of vinegar; if
color not important, twice will do.
* * * *
Brief history of the Royal Acad-
emy?
It was founded in London in 1768
under the patronage of George III
with Sir Joshua Reynolds, who was
knighted for the occasion, as first
president. The early exhibitions of
the Academy were held first in Pall
Mall, and later in Somerset House,
where they were held until 1838,
when, the National Gallery being
built, the Academy moved its head-
quarters to that building. In 1869
the present Royal Academy at Bur-
lington House was opened.
• * • *
What is kunzite ?
It is a fairly recently discovered
gem which is peach-pink in color,
highly dichroic in quality, and pos-
sessing wonderful fluorescence. Upon
exposure to the action of X-rays or
radium bromide, the gem-stone be-
comes phosphorescent and remains
so for some appreciable time after
removal. After exposure to the
X-rays it will, if placed in the dark,
photograph itself upon a piece of
sensitised paper. In respect of this
phenomenon of fluorescence, kunzite
is unique among gem-stones. It was
discovered by Professor George
Kunze, and has been given his name.
On latest information available it is
found only in San Diego, California.
* ♦ * *
Information on tempering steel?
Reliable work will result from a
study of how different types of steel
respond to heating and working at
high temperatures. On close exam- •
ination steel will be found to have a
porous texture; heated, the pores
open and expand, and quick cooling
leaves the steel brittle. A good
temper for general use is a hardened
shell with a softer core. With good-
quality steel this can be done by
heating to cherry-red and dipping by
degrees until the right shade of color
runs down the steel, when it is
plunged in and cooked off. Some
experience will determine the ap-
proximate color at which various
types should be cooled off. Water
should be of fairly even cold tem-
perature. Hard, tough cutting sur-
faces can be obtained by tempering-
off the hammer. This is done by
working the steel together so as to
close the pores and compress the
cutting edge; then, when the color
is dulling to blue, plunge into water.
Plenty of hammering up till dipping
is required. A tool, steel plough-
share, etc., should show no more
than a faint speckle of white at the
cutting edge when tempered. When
tempering picks, mattocks or cold-
chisels, heat to a dull red and chill
by placing an inch of the point in
cold water; move constantly. After
withdrawal the point will change
from a straw color to dark blue and
lastly, to pale blue. If the tool
doesn’t turn pale blue it will prove
too hard; if the blue comes and goes
too quickly it will be too soft. When
it comes and stays dip the tool in
water and cool right off.
* * * *
Method of pickling (1) green
olives, (2) ripe olives, (3) white
onions ?
(1) Fruit must be green and tender.
Make a brine of 2oz. salt boiled in
1 gal. water and steep fruit in this
for 24 hours. Place fruit with brine
in jars, set lids in position, bring to
boiling point in a water bath, add
rubbers and screw down while all is
at boiling point. (2) Place fruit dry
and clean in jars,' set lids without
rubbers in position, place on a tray
and put into a cold oven, gradually
raise temperature to 325 deg. Fah.,
taking at least 1 hr. in the process.
Remove to table, add rubbers, fill
to overflowing with boiling water
and screw down. Test for leaks next
day and reheat with partially un-
screwed lids if leaks occur; tight
lids will explode. Use fruit with
mayonnaise or favored dressing.
(3) 31b. small onions, sufficient vine-
gar to cover them, 2oz. each cloves,
peppercorns and allspice, 3oz. salt,
2oz. whole ginger bruised with a
hammer, 1 cup sugar. Peel onions
by pouring boiling water over them,
place in earthenware jar; boil all
other ingredients, strain and pour
over the onions; allow to stand a
week or two until vinegar penetrates.
Onions may be boiled in the mix-
ture until _ tender and put away in
glass jars in the liquid, but all must
be at boiling point for keeping. Pro-
cesses vary, but all good cookery
books have a chapter on the subject;
select one at a bookshop.
* * * ♦
Should the publisher or author
supply illustrations for a book?
It depends on the nature of the
book concerned. Where the illus-
trations are a very important or the
major part of a book (as, for
example, in a book for children
where the illustrations are frequently
more important than the text) the
publisher would expect the illustra-
tions to be supplied by the author.
In many such cases, of course, the
illustrations are actually done by the
author. If not done by the author,
the publisher would probably in this
case expect the author to pay for
them or to make a substantial con-
tribution towards the payment of the
artist. Sometimes in such cases the
royalty is split between author and
artist. However, in the case of bod&i
where the publisher considers that
illustrations would be an advantage,
though not an essential, it is usual
for the publisher to pay for the ajrt
work. This can only be taken as a
guide and each case determined on
its merits by negotiations between
author and publisher.
* * * *
Complete list of Melbourne Cup
winners ?
1861 Archer, 1862 Archer, 1863
Banker, 1864 Lantern, 1865 Toryboy,
1866 The Barb, 1867 Tim Whiffler,
1868 Glencoe, 1869 Warrior, 1870
Nimblefoot, 1871 The Pearl. 1872
The Quack, 1873 Don Juan, 1874
Harricot, 1875 Wollomai, 1876 Bri-
seis, 1877 Chester, 1878 Calamia,
1879 DarriweU, 1880 Grand Flaneur,
1881 Zulu, 1882 The Assyrian, 1883
Martini-Henri, 1884 Malua, 1885
Sheet Anchor, 1886 Arsenal, 1887
Dunlop, 1888 Mentor, 1889 Bravo,
1890 Carbine, 1891 Malvolio, 1892
Glenloth, 1893 Tarcoola, 1894 Pat-
ron, 1895 Auraria, 1896 New Haven,
1897 Gaulus, 1898 The Grafter, 1899
Merriwee, 1900 Clean Sweep, 1901
Revenue, 1902 The Victory, 1903
Lord Cardigan, 1904 Acrasia, 1905
Blue Spec, 1906 Poseidon, 1907
Apologue, 1908 Lord Nolan, 1909
Prince Foote, 1910 Comedy King,
1911 The Parisian, 1912 Piastre,
1913 Posinatus, 1914 Kingsburgh,
1915 Patrobus, 1916 Sasanof, 1917
Westcourt, 1918 Nightwatch, 1919
Artilleryman, 1920 Poitrel, 1921
Sister Olive, 1922 King Ingoda,
1923 Bitalli, 1924 Backwood, 1925
Windbag, 1926 Spearfelt, 1927 Tri-
valve, 1928 Statesman, 1929 Night-
march, 1930 Phar Lap, 1931 White
Nose, 1932 Peter Pan, 1933 Hall
Mark, 1934 Peter Pan, 1935 Marabou,
1936 Wotan, 1937 The Trump, 1938
Catalogue, 1939 Rivette, 1940 Old
Rowley, 1941 Skipton, 1942 Colonus,
1943 Dark Felt, 1944 Sirius, 1945
Rainbird, 1946 Russia, 1947 Hiraii,
1948 Rimfire,
Brief Answers.
G.L.: Tennyson’s poem “Morte
d’Arthur” commences “So all day
long the noise of battle r011ed”....
M.A.: (1) Try the State Agricultural
Dept. (2) Not advisable without the
help of a vet L.P,: Methuen
Treaty was one of commerce between
Great Britain and Portugal, concluded
by Paul Methuen, the British Am-
bassador at Lisbon, in 1703 R.E.:
In auction bridge bets on a rubber
are decided by points won, not by
games. If the difference in points is
too small to involve any money
changing hands between the players,
the bet is void... .R.S.: Albert Smith,
lecturer-traveller, introduced the St.
Bernard breed to Britain. Up to
£IOOO has been paid for a champion.
Q.L.: A kutch is the packet of
vellum leaves in which gold is placed
for the first beating; the gold-beaters’
skin packet into which the leaf is
placed for the second beating is
known as the “shoder”... .T.Y.:
The Sydney-to-Melbourne car record
is held by D. Robertson, who did the
trip in 10 hours 5 minutes... .T.L.:
No increase of fees is allowed by
reason of there being more than one
plaintiff or defendant S.A.: The
Torres Strait Islanders Act aims at
conferring a measure of local self-
government upon the natives of the
islands... .F. 1.: Address it to Na-
tional Geographic Magazine, Hub-
bard Memorial Hall, Washington,
D.C.... .R.E.L.: Members of the
“300 Pounds Club” have all suc-
ceeded in lifting a weight of 300 or
more pounds overhead. At present
there are ten members in Australia,
three of them from N.S.W D.K.:
Melbourne team were Australian
Rules League premiers in 1939....
D.L.: The Mohocks were a lawless
band which infested London in the
early part of the 18th century. The
word is a corruption of “Mohawk,”
the name of the Red Indian tribe....
S.C.: To make negus put a glass
of burgundy or port into a tumbler
with three lumps of sugar that have
been rubbed on a lemon. Add one
or two thin slices of lemon and a
little grated nutmeg, and fill up with
boiling water.., .Y.U.: Ducklings
should not be given slops which tend
to block the nostrils. Their food
should be mixed dry and crumbly.
.... R.F.: Mosaic won the Sydney
Cup in 1940... .A.G.F.: Coconut
wood resists the marine borer well
and should last about five years.


Come on, Billy
BY DAVID CAMPBELL.
*
1‘ HEN horses gallop at night, the
\A / mysterious. Here’s the
W boy Billy frowsy with sleep,
ambling through silence downhill
on a drooping nighthorse. The frost after
a week of rain has sharpened the hoof-
falls. The horse’s paunch creaks and
Billy is aware of the silence. He is aware
of the cemetery on the dark ridge where
the owls mope.
RIDING through star-shade, his mind
tastes honey. That grandmother
witch of a gaunt gum has a wild bees’ hive
in its branches. And the boy is assured
until a filly whinnies. The pace of the
nighthorse quickens, and he rides rigid ;
and to his heartbeats the horses are sud-
denly galloping. They cross the fearful
landscape of an earlier dawn. And Billy
whoops to his courage and his whip sings
in the frost.
Up the hard road he chases his
phantoms, neck-and-neck with fear. But
the old mare is a stayer, and on the hill-
crest day is breaking. Serpent-heads toss
in the first light; a breakaway gelding
bucks exploding down the skyline ; but
the mob comes in to the whip.
In the heavy stockyard the horses stand
steaming, hock-deep in mud.
BILLY’S flat hand claps the mare’s
withers. Hobbled, she browses a
stubble of frost. The rabbiting pack yell,
leaping like lions up the wire-net of their
yard. And slowly the morning comes over
Bald Hill, sung up by the magpies and
Billy whistling a tune of gold. It’s a great
clatter that sends the ghosts packing, and
here are the stockmen to daunt them.
“Mornin’, Billy. Mornin’, Billy.”
DILLY, shy and proud, stands astride
I—' like his father, glad to be part of
this morning bustle. Dogs sniff for rats
between the slabs of the stalls ; horses
are led out from the yard and are saddled
up; in twos and threes the men ride off
to work between the misty gum-trees.
The smell of their tobacco-smoke re-
mains. And to forget a sudden sadness,
Billy turns and runs a hard race down the
rutted road to the homestead.
“And I wasn’t frightened neither.”
Lined with porridge and cream and the
fat meat of chops, Billy can taunt his
sister and any old ghost.
“It was easy,” he says. “While Len’s
sick, I’ll get the horses in every morning.
You’re only a girl.”
“I’m older than you are.”
“That doesn’t count.”
But Janet only smiles. Her blue eyes
are in their corners and she looks far
away. Her indifference is elaborate ; her
smile mocks in secret.
“Let’s go to Dad’s office and squash
flies,” she says.
HT HE office is a dark high room in the
1 old part of the house. A giant roll-
top desk stands open in the light from the
one window where dead fingers of vine
grip the gauze. A few early blowflies
walk staggering.up the panes. They are
easy to catch and make a fine mess when
slammed in a ledger.
The fair heads touch. And “Ach,” says
Billy, twisting his neck and screwing up
his face, eyeing the open page obliquely
with the pleasure of disgust.
“Just look at that one, Jan.”
w The fly has spread out like a
blot over the neat figures ; 3000
wether-weaners at 16s. lOd.
equal one broad stain.
Janet puckers a sweet angel’s nose and
her eyes are wide and bright. But she
turns to trace a signature cut sharply in
the glass pane.
“A. G. Robinson,” she spells out at
length. “Know who he was?”
“Of course.” Billy is busy.
“He went mad,” says Janet, tracing and
looking seriously at her brother. “He
went mad and cut his name in the pane
with a diamond ring.”
“I know,” says Billy, loud with im-
patience. “I know.”
“Look, Billy; feel it. Give me your
finger. He died and he’s buried over in
the cemetery. He must have been a silly
old man, don’t you think?”
“I know all that,” Billy says. “I knew
all that before you did. He buried his
fortune down at the front gate.”
“He must have been a silly old man.”
And then in joyous fright, “Look out;
here comes the Dockleaf.”
JANET slips likp a slim wind over the
sill and under the swinging gauze.
Her head bobs once, golden, and is gone,
leaving Billy in panic in the dim office
holding the ledger.
Clop—clop—clop.
His father’s steady footsteps ring on
the verandah. So Billy walks when he
thinks of it, firmly, in meditation, aping
the big man he fears. But this is no time
for sly laughter. He is trapped. He runs
for the window; papers blow about him
in the draught. He grabs at them, listens,
and dives to crouch, pale, in the knee-
cavity of the desk.
Clop, And the window slams down.
He sees his father’s tan boots among the
papers, and hugging the tell-tale ledger,
he prays ; please, God. But God will not
listen to him, for he has been killing flies.
This is what comes of it. And he thinks of
those yellow blots with shame and hatred.
A LARGE red hand is picking up the
Ca papers. The backs of the fingers are
tufted with brown hair. He watches it,
fascinated. And then from still eyes, like
a cornered animal, he is staring into his
father’s wind-veined face. His own
cheeks flush: how absurd he must look I
“Come out of it. What are you doing
there?”
Billy cannot explain, but lays the ledger
on the desk.
“I • wasn’t reading it,” he says. “I
promise.”
He could bite his tongue for this re-
mark and his neck burns. He feels his
father’s remote eyes looking down on him
and the glassy sneers of the deer-heads
around the walls.
“You know I won’t have you children
making a bear-garden of the office.”
BUT the big man is suddenly embar-
rassed, feeling the gulf between him-
self and his son. He makes excuses:
He’s a busy man, without the time to
reach their immature minds. At any rate,
one’s enough; and he shrugs: his wife
seems to give up her whole life to them.
But he is troubled by an image of two
locked doors facing one another at the
end of a passageway.
“All right, old chap,” he says, fumbling.
“No trouble with the horses this morn-
ing? That’s the boy. Game for to-
morrow? Good.”
And he nods his head, winking, manly,
and buffets Billy with restraint on the chest.
“All right, old chap. Run along now.”
Billy runs along. His feet beat fiercely
on the verandah. And, hearing them, his
father sits perplexed. He shakes his head.
Must see more of the children. But what
the devil was his son doing cowering
beneath the desk? He liked a boy to
stand up for himself. And he squares
his shoulders and opens the ledger.
“Billy!”
BUT Billy is chasing Janet through the
orchard, stumbling over the furrows
between the pink cherries and the clouded
pears.
“I’ll kill you,” he cries. “It was your
fault, Janet. I’ll murder you when I catch
you.”
And he runs, ah, panting, with a pain in
his chest, fiercely forgetting, after long-
legged Janet with her short flying skirt
and bobbing hair, who slips through the
fence and is away like the wind across the
green paddocks.
“You can’t catch me,” sings Janet,
looking back through fair hair. And
“Ha, ha!” she mocks across the church-
yard; then she is lost, is swallowed up.
And the great pines sigh.
“Ah,” say the black pines, leaning over.
Brier roots clutch the stone. Their
tangled arms have torn the netting from the
fence and the gate hangs loose on one hinge.
i I AT\T FT ”
J bunts amon" the tomb-
Billy hunts JL_- thpr ,.
stones, peering here, peering there,
through the bare briers m the shadow
r Vnnw vn.rrp
Jan-et. Come out. „ X ®
he J£.
fwoirt touc”you’friVlfta Promte”
Lost among the grave gravestones. ‘
“Please, Jan.”
And there she is, balancing, with one
leg out and arms wide, on a leaning tomb-
stone, sjniling her secret smile. She stands
still in sunlight on the stone, flushed
from her run and victory ; and daffodils
are bright below her.
“What did he say?” she says.
“Not much.” Billy turns away, diffi-
dent, indifferent.
“Goon: tell me, Billy.”
“He didn’t say anything” ; and Billy
scowls,
“I’ll bet he said ‘Keep out of the
office’.” And Janet begins to chant
“Keep out of the office , keep out of the
office,” till Billy, cheered, joins in.
<‘\J/ELL, old chap,” he says in a deep
VV voice. “Any trouble with the
horses, old chap?”
Their pealing laughter rings through
the churchyard. Billy struts: Clop, clop,
“No trouble, eh? That’s the chap.”
“Oh,” Janet is giggling. “Oh,” merrily
mocking. They are both happy with the
intimacy of this secret between them.
And, coming down from her tombstone,
she walks with him arm in arm across the
graves. The daffodils shake in the wind
and the hips of the briers dance glinting,
< ‘ LJ ERE’S old Robinson’s grave,” says
* * Janet, and she lifts a pincushion
of moss from the rotting granite. “ ‘The
loving husband of Phillipa Sarah.’
Phillipa, oh! Phillipa Sarah!”
The young heads touch beneath the
pines and their laughter is mingled.
“Silly old Robinson,” says Janet. She
stamps up and down the grave,
Death, what is death on a fine morn-
ing? A fraud like Santa Claus. And she
mocks the pious faces and don’ts and hush,
claiming a victory over that strange world
of grown-ups where death has a meaning,
£ ? c Billv »
stam - ps _ t y Q And tQ ou(do his
sister, who is only a girl, an idea occurs
to him. A thin stream plays on the head-
stone. So much for old Robinson,
Ha PP ily they strasgle back u through the
? har P s P rin * sunlight to the house for
lunch '
13 ING—rrrrrr. The alarm-clock is
1 crowing in the children’s sleep-out to
{ be morning. Billy leaps from bed
and half-dressed when his teeth begin
t 0 c h a tter. He looks out fearfully through
the wire-gauze. The stars are high and
pale anc j far pines stand darkly, like
BstSj a g a i ns t the coming light. A terrible
dread runs its fingers up Billy’s spine.
“I’m sorry, God, I’m sorry, truly, God.”
j n f be next room he can hear his
father’s steady breathing.
“Jan, are you awake?”
A w hi S per, “Yes, Billy.”
“j t ’ s terribly dark, isn’t it? I wish ...”
I IE sits down on Janet’s bed. She can
1 A feel him shiver, and suddenly she
clutches him to protect him, thrilling at
the same time with that panicky joy that
children take in frightening themselves.
“Oh, Billy,” she says, half-giggling, half-
awestruck. “There’s something outside,
Don’t go, Billy.”
But as Billy struggles with her, he for-
gets momentarily the thing that is going
to happen to him, and the remote lifting
qf his father’s eyes. He is conscious only
of a desperate need to break free.
CHINA TO PERU
“L.P.”: Melbourne’s fair name (B.
22/12/’48)? If the founders of that city
did not select an altogether appropriate
name for it, it was not because they
didn’t have plenty to choose from. In its
early days, Tasmanian newspapers re-
ferred to Batman’s “place for a village”
as Batmania and Glenelg—the latter on
the analogy of Sydney and Hobart, after
the British Secretary of State for the
colonies. Other contemporary references
give the forms of Bearbrass, Bearport,
Bareheep and Bearbury, all apparently
variations of the native name of the
locality, which was Berrem or Bararing.
Another P ioneer sheepman, writing in
m en tlon ed having one at a pub
™ m ? d th ® T by Johnme
at Do “ tta Galla - ,
« S th. E ». Victorian Alps country, and
a f ter hours of snaking through trackless
bush we hobbled the on an
river . flat and made ca B Then, b .
bing my rodj j set upstream. Soon
tbe scrub was so thick I only sighted the
water at intervals, and to avoid a patch
q£ blackberry I crossed over ffot bossed
“X St™nd pSy
found the stream was flowing the wrong
way Deciding it must be my mistake, I
turned round . That stream cut itself
uff o billabongs, executed three-quarter-
c j rc j e trips, made wild dashes in con-
rary directions and as suddenly changed
its mind and came back Keeping the
SOU nd of its chuckling carefully on my
]eft> j f OU ght my way steadily on till the
thicker line of ti-tree marking its course
topk an elbow-turn to the right. I fol-
lowed. Must have been quarter of a mile
on that I sighted the water again and
stopped in amazement. Once more I was
travelling downstream. I studied the
ground as best I could, decided there was
just a chance the unreliable thing wasn’t
running uphill and back-tracked. Found
the solution in the right-angle bend.
where, beneath the undergrowth, a couple
of streams fed a small basin that spilled
over on different falls, making the two
streams I had followed. An hour later
I climbed a high precipice and spotted
our camp site barely a mile away. I'd
walked many miles, was tired, thoroughly
exasperated, and had got myself no-
where. Folding my rod, I struck off in
a beeline for camp. That tangled mess
of country was too much like an after-
noon spent chasing something in a Gov-
ernment department.
* * * *
“Pakeha”: Just before anybody rushes
to the conclusion that American experts
were the first to start earthworm-farming
by introducing the creatures into barren
or flogged-out soil (B. 10/11 /’4B), give
some credit to Maoriland. It was a
North Island farmer who make history
by digging up worm-inhabited sods cart-
“B them to useless ground and there
Jurying them. In no time hed thus
tUmed I deSCrt *° fruitfalness ‘ #
«c nlrnrm r.ime”- Towards thp end of
Salmon Gums Towards the end of
the last century when the great financial
crash stripped Eastraha of its borrowed
plumes and sent its more virile sons out
in search of a better land, a weakling,
carried along on the tide of gold-seekers,
bogged down on the sandhills around
Cottesloe (W.A.). While his stronger
brethren pushed on to fortune, this puny
creature squatted alone in a sand waste
a nd, bemoaning his own timidity,
mouthed the foul libel on “this land of
sand, sin, sweat and sorrow.” The weak-
ling perished, as weaklings do, but his
words, lacking even the vitality to die,
hovered like a disembodied spirit oyer
the few miles of sandy coastline. I hadnt
met the phrase for years until “Metoo
employed it in The Bulletin to implore
Mat’s aid. By all means send the big bloke
a nd his mate across the Nullarbor. We’ll
welcome them. They won’t sojourn long
at “Metoo’s” suburban villa. Within an
hour of their arrival they’ll be pushing
inland towards the great heart of the
West, enjoying its hospitality, marvelling
a.t its beauty, wondering at its great fer-
tility and pausing at each country post-
office to send urgent telegrams of myita-
tion to their less fortunate friends back
East.


LONDON and
m
BIRMINGHAM
BRITISH INDUSTRIES FAIR
ẃ
Every year, from over 100 countries, trade
buyers gather at the British Industries Fair.
_ The Chamber of Commerce in Birmingham,
and manufacturers from every part of Britain, join with
the Government of the United Kingdom to welcome them.
At B I F 1949, from 2-13 May, 3000 exhibitors will display
the latest developments in thirty groups of allied trades.
The leading men of international commerce are invited to
attend the world’s greatest assembly of national products.
2-13 MAY 1949
TRADE BUYERS PLAN YOUR VISIT NOW
Information about exhibitors, special displays and facilities at
the Fair can be obtained from the United Kingdom Trade
Commissioner at Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne or Brisbane;
or the Imperial Trade Correspondent at Adelaide or Perth.
m
z*
“TOLLEY’>
A splendid
drink since
1858.”
our
rood
"Good n Healtt
a C * dditi on th nd y
TotX Won
.Pit!T aQ . y good
It! Tr<ll Ste ltlAr.
J olley’ c rl '
*** car ef f, deser v es
tlQ n. xr a^en-
s hould hf . horn e
this *****
dr ‘nk nH
e 2 d . in-
etner geticy, m an
TOLLEY’S
SPECIAL EjJ HOSPITAI
BRANDY
=mj .‘ SPECIAL HOSPIT
TST.S.ft
HEW SOUTH WALES DISTRIBUTORS; TOOTH & CO, LIMITED
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I 'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Crow-pick.
“J.R.D.”; When a sheep is
attacked by crows the eye is
usually the first point of attack.
Usually not much hope is held
out for a sheep that has been
attacked in this way, but if
correctly treated there is always
a good chance of saving it.
Death is usually caused by
blood-poisoning, as the germs
from the crow’s pick are usually
of the anaerobic type which can
only get going when excluded
from air.
The first step is therefore to
put these germs out of action by
filling the cavity with hydrogen
peroxide, which should be
allowed to penetrate to the
depths of the wound. To com-
plete the cure pour sulphanila-
mide powder into the wound so
that it adheres to every part of
the raw surface.
This treatment is also useful
for punctured wounds on ani-
mals, but care must be taken to
ensure that all foreign matter is
removed. Broken ends of stakes,
splinters, etc., should be located
by careful probing and with-
drawn. The sulphanilamide dries
the wound and heals in a re-
markably short time.
Grinding Combs and
Cutters.
“The Expert”: It looks easy,
but like most “easy” jobs there
is a knack. It is in the prepara-
tory work in this case, the proper
cleaning and surfacing of the
disks and in the setting of the
pendulum and its upright.
Never use worn emery, the sur-
face is uneven ; clean the disk off
with very hot water and a stiff
brush, allow it to dry in the sun
without wiping and don’t touch
the face with the hands, as the
natural grease so deposited may
cause the emery to lift. Clean
the surface of the clamp-plate
and place thereon a suitably-
shaped sheet of cardboard to
protect the liveliness of the
grinding surface. Cut a hole in
the sheet of emery to be used
and place the sheet face-down
on the clamp-plate. Brush glue
evenly over the surface of the
disk, but not into the centre in-
dentation, and clamp down until
the excess glue is squeezed out
the edges. Be careful not to
clamp so tight that the grinding-
surface is flattened. Trim the
edges with a sharp knife,* and
leave the emery clamped down
at least two hours —overnight is
better—then remove from the
clamp and place in a warm spot
to dry. Trim off frayed edges
and cut out the emery from the
recess in the centre of the disk.
Next clean the disk-hub and
grinder-spindle so that the disk
will seat square and run true, and
tighten the washer and nut.
Check the pendulum—it should
hang about Hin. to 2in. from
the surface of the disk on the
side where the sparks will fly
upward. It should be level with
“Hey! Have you seen a branch-line anywhere around here P”
the hub and about midway be-
tween the hub and disk-edge.
This setting will grind from the
heel, where the heaviest metal is
located, and take only sufficient
from the teeth to gain a cutting
surface. Heel-grinding cannot
be on tools that have been
ground in any other way, and
similarly, once started, it must be
used for the life of the tool.
Some makes of grinder have the
top pole of the magnet in the
comb and cutter-holder slightly
shorter than the bottom pole to
make heel-grinding automatic ;
in this system the heel is first to
touch and last to leave the grind-
ing surface.
Wash the combs and cutters
thoroughly before grinding; a
nail driven into the brush and
with its head cut off is a handy
tool for cleaning the holes. Use
the coarse emery for the combs
and the fine grade for the cutters.
Place the tool to be ground
in the holder with the teeth up-
ward. Don’t allow it to remain
stationary on the face of the
disk, as it will wear the emery
unevenly and result in uneven
grinding. Move the pendulum
from side to side, using a slight
but even pressure and bearing
slightly downward to combat
the drag of the disk. The out-
side edge of the disk is travelling
and grinding faster than the in-
side ; this can be overcome by
bearing more heavily on the in-
side side of the holder (fairly
hard: to do), or by carrying the
outside edge of the tool slightly
beyond the outer edge of the
disk (much easier), or use a
double-ended grinder and swap
the disks from day to day
(automatic).
Five seconds at a time is long
enough to leave a tool in con-
tact with the disk, or it will
overheat and draw the temper.
Too much pressure results in
overheating as well as a wire or
feather edge. If a comb or
cutter is too hard to sharpen at
once quench in a tin of water
before attempting to resharpen.
A comb or cutter is ground
when it presents an evenly bright
surface when tilted to the light;
dull spots are low spots and low
spots are blunt.
Grasshopper-control.
“J.R.D.”: Recent demonstra-
tions of a fog - producing
apparatus has caused consider-
able interest. The machine, an
adaptation of a war-time gadget
for producing artificial fog, is a
portable powered unit. A hot
blast of air is produced and the
liquid insecticide is introduced at
the nozzle, so that the vapor
carries a very fine concentration
of the insecticide over the treated
area. Use is governed largely by
the strength and direction of
wind; a light wind is of ad-
vantage in giving the fog a wider
coverage. By driving the
machine slowly at right-angles to
the direction of the wind a wider
area can be treated.
The great advantage of the
new insecticides is that they not
only kill all ’hoppers that contact
the fog, but the ground and
pasture of a treated area kills
for a subsequent period of
several days to a month all
’hoppers alighting on it, accord-
ing to the insecticide used. Usual
technique is to encircle a swarm
with a belt of the fog, then to
drive through the swarm on
parallel lines, about a chain
apart, fogging the centre. The
apparatus is fairly expensive and
the cost of insecticide, gam-
mexane, is close on £1 per acre.
It is, however, the best method
of control yet seen in Australia,
and offers the opportunity to
control the plague locust to a
considerable degree.
With the means available the
question of responsibility should
be examined. The cost and re-
sponsibility of eradication should
not be put on the individual
landholder where hatchings
occur. The ’hoppers should be
attacked on the hatching-grounds
as early as possible during the
five weeks before they get their
wings and while the movement
of swarms is limited in height and
distance. It is unfair to saddle
the few P.P. Boards in whose
area hatchings occur with the
cost of saving other board areas
from depredations. This is some-
thing that affects every grazier,
farmer, market-gardener and
private gardener in Australia,
and the job of control is a Gov-
ernmental one —Federal, not
State.
Hatchings in country districts
could be checked by inspectors
trained by entomologists. Re-
porting of swarms by property-
owners should be compulsory,
and in each P.P. district or
special area an organised plan
could be drawn up, co-ordinated
to a general plan with neighbor-
ing districts, special labor
engaged if necessary, and, with
the equipment and insecticides
ready for action, swarm destruc-
tion could begin without delay.
Mendelism and Cabbages.
A South Australian
gardener named Gray has
used the Mendelian principles
of heredity to produce cab-
bages weighing up to 481 b.,
lettuces with 41b. hearts, and
snapdragons Bft. high. After
11 years’ work he has bred
a broad-bean plant, a single
stem of which bears 75
pods, the pods being up to 15in.
long. One of his problems is to
“fix” this new strain. A peculiar
point about his broad-bean is
that the seeds have a pea flavor,
which he thinks has been trans-
ferred from peas sown among
the beans and trained up the
beanstalks. If this flavor can
be transmitted to the hybrid’s
offspring, geneticists will sit up
and take notice. Personally, I
like my broad-beans to taste like
broad-beans and prefer medium-
sized vegetables to monsters, but
others apparently think other-
wise. Gray, who has spent years
on his researches, has already re-
ceived requests for broad-bean
seed.
Buying a Second-hand
Engine.
“Radian”; Tread warily and
don’t take all you are told for
granted ; if your doubts are un-
founded, so much the better.
Examine well a newly-painted
job. Paint can hide such defects
as cracked water-jackets, welded
castings and other parts, cor-
roded water and fuel tanks, or
even the fact that the engine
has been through a fire. On the
other hand, the paint may have
been honestly applied to protect
a good engine—that is for you
to discern.
If an inspection-plate is pro-
vided on the crank-case remove
it and have a look inside. Turn
the engine to bottom dead-centre,
insert a bar under the big-end
and check lift on shaft. Turn
on to top centre, and, with a
small mirror and electric-torch,
inspect cylinder-bore for scores.
With inspection-plate still off,
turn the engine over smartly
against compression and listen
for 5 blow-past at the piston. If
cylinder is dry of oil there is
bound to be a certain amount
of blowing, but it should not be
excessive if cylinder-bore and
-rings are in reasonable order.
Grip the connecting-rod firmly,
as high as possible, and force to
and fro, listening at the same
time for undue slackness in
piston and gudgeon-pin ; insert
a bar under the flywheel and
check play in main bearings.
If it is possible to run the
engine, note any difficulties in
starting from cold, also check for
knocks and other strange noises.
Watch the exhaust as engine
warms up—a bluish-white smoke
often points to worn piston-
rings or cylinder-bores. Dirty-
grey smoke from a diesel exhaust


LEAVE IT TO A.M.L.&F.!
What a relief to know the whole problem can be handed over to A.M.L.&P.
with complete confidence!
Whatever it is—the sale and purchase of properties, agistment, shortage of
essential station supplies and machinery, the sale of fat stock on a touchy
market, and the thousand and one other worries of the man on the land—
the solution is easy—“leave it to A.M.L.&F.’'
85 Years in the Service of the Man on the Land.
Australian, Mercantile. Land & Finance Coy. Ltd*
Inc. in England in 1863.
4 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY.
Branches at Newcastle, Wagga, Moree, Henty and Hay.
A 18.22
For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZAGOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE; MA6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
Prompt help saves business
for injured master-baker
{A TRUE STORY}
A bolting horse in a country
town recently caused serious
injury to its owner, a local
master - baker. The accident
occurred in front of the home
of the Branch Employment
Officer of the Commonwealth
Employment Service, who went
to the baker’s assistance and
accompanied him on a neigh-
bour’s lorry to hospital.
On the way, the Employment
Officer learned that the bake-
house would have no fully-
qualified baker and one delivery
round would be unattended.
After reassuring the worried
baker, the Employment Officer
immediately set to work. First,
he obtained an opposition
baker’s promise to do the
following day’s baking. Then,
to carry on after that, a con-
tractor, previously helped, was
induced to lend one of his
builders’ labourers who was a
qualified baker. Finally, the
Employment Officer persuaded
a youth visiting the town on
holidays to do the daily
delivery.
These arrangements, finalised
within six hours of the acci-
dent, not only ensured the main-
tenance of a vital community
service but also relieved the
harassed mind of the injured
baker.
This true story from Common-
wealth Employment Service
records is just one example of
the Service’s assistance to em-
ployers and employees through-
out the Commonwealth. District
Employment Officers can always
be depended upon to do all in
their power to help. Their
assistance is available free of
cost and obligation.
COMMONWEALTH EMPLOYMENT SERVICE
ẅ
EYE LOTION
For inflamed Eyes and Eyelids
SOLD EVERYWHERE
H.A. Rose & Co.Pty.Ltd.King St. Sydney
This is the House
C 5
ii
K
mm
that’s
Cooler in Summer-
Warmer in Winter
For healthier, more comfortable living,
as Mr. and Mrs. 'Jack' did.
Insulate and Decorate with
CM*
i Inch of Cane-ite
provides better insuldtion
than 16 inches of
concrete or 8
inches of brick.
Sold
WALLS and CEILINGS
by Hardware Stores and Timber Merchants everywhere
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
NEEDS RELIABLE TRUCK SERVICE
Investigate Now —interhatiohal
MT2IO-16
m.
Mr
TRUCK MAINTENANCE SERVICE . . .
... at all International Harvester
Metropolitan Distributors, Country
Dealers and Company Branch Houses
truck, from city to country and
country to city, is vital to our trans-
portation services . . . Perishable
foods must move quickly to con-
sumers; regular supplies of raw
materials must be hauled from farms,
forests and mines to processing and
manufacturing centres . . . Strict time
schedules must be maintained . . .
And this needs reliable truck main-
tenance service.
International Truck Maintenance
Service, regularly carried out,
lengthens truck life. It catches truck
troubles when they are little—pre-
Road transport bv motor
International Engineered Truck
Parts—
They fit more accurately,
wear better, last longer.
New improvements intro-
duced into current production.
vents major failures, enables trucks to operate better and speed
deliveries. It pays every way, on every trip. Take advantage
of it now. Give your trucks the best so they can give the best
to you. Give them International Truck Maintenance Service.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY, LTD, CINC. IN VIC.)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES. FACTORY! GEELONG
0
111
iH TERMATiOWAi,^yiUg€iKS
can indicate faulty fuel injec-
tion. Apply an artificial load
by means of piece of timber held
lever-fashion against the fly-
wheel, listening at the same time
for undue noise or knocks.
Lever will also give a fair idea
of power output, acceleration
and efficiency of governor.
At slow speed, check flywheel
and projecting end of crankshaft
for run out. A slightly-warped
flywheel doesn’t matter a lot in
a small engine, but a sprung
crankshaft is a serious matter in
any engine.
Finally, look over the various
nuts. Badly-mauled nuts often
indicate that the part they
anchor has given trouble. Nuts
securing diesel fuel-injectors are
sometimes a fair example of this
point, Having arrived at this
stage you will have found that
the engine is not perfect in
every detail —no used engine is.
The problem now is to decide
if the engine will be satisfac-
tory as it stands, or whether you
must incur unreasonable ex-
pense to bring it up to that con-
dition. This takes some decid-
ing in these times of high costs
and short supply.
Hand-stripping.
“Mr.”: K. M. Sillcock, of
Vic. Department of Agriculture,
gives some reasons for inefficient
machine-milking and the need
for hand-stripping: Incorrect
timing ; inefficient shed routine ;
teat-cups “creeping” ; machines
out of adjustment; habitual
hand - stripping ; badly - shaped
udders ; cows of a temperament
unsuited to machine-milking.
Enlarging on these points. Sill-
cock says that to take full
advantage of a cow’s let-down
mechanism the teat-cups should
be in position within one minute
after udder and teats have been
washed. Rough treatment,
altered routine, fright or even
absence of the usual feed will
interfere with or wholly retard
let-down of milk. As the udder
becomes slack the teat-cups need
to be watched, as they have a
tendency to “creep,” shutting
off the milk-flow down the teat
canal. Another cause of this
trouble is high vacuum —over
15in.
Machines need to be checked
regularly for faulty rubbers,
leaks, blockages and sluggish re-
lease-valve. Check the vacuum-
gauge against a tested gauge for
accuracy. Blockage of the air-
admission hole on the claw will
prevent the machine milking
cleanly. Sillcock admits that
change of habit in cows from
hand- to machine-stripping
time, but points but that the
move is justified on the count
of labor saved alone, not to
mention . elimination of the
tedious hand-stripping. He ad-
vises immediate cessation of
hand-stripping of all cows and a
changeover to machine-stripping
by gentle cup-pulling and mas-
saging of the udder. Later, cup-
pulling alone will suffice. Those
few cows which can’t be trained
to give their milk to machines
should be discarded.
Quick Breeding.
“C.S.”: Translated and com-
piled by J. S. Goode and edited
by H. B. Rudduck, M. 8., 8.5.,
B.V.Sc., Artificial Insemination
of Farm Animals in the Soviet
Union (Angus and Robertson)
begins with the statement that
“Many scientific achievements
have come to the world from the
Soviet Union,” though none of
them, as is usual when such
claims are made, is named. That-
apart, the book is a decided
contribution to a topical rural
subject in that, in simple terms
and with plenty of illustrations,
it describes the whole operation.
It was put out to train peasants,
and that is its chief value —for
it takes the reader along stage
by stage until his knowledge is
complete. Not the least im-
portant are statistics showing
how a.i. can lift stock numbers.
Hints for the Farm.
“Thap”: Not many farmers
are aware that the common
bracken-fern is poisonous, par-
ticularly to calves. Prevention is
the only remedy, since once the
symptoms of loss of appetite and
bloodstained discharges occur
the animals do not recover.
Keep calves away from the fern
country and make certain that
older stock are well fed.
“Arnica”: For those who like
brilliant autumn foliage and
have lots of garden space the
tulip-tree is very suitable. It
will grow anywhere on high
country. Nurseries stock it. A,
bed should be prepared some
time before planting the'seed-
lings.
“K.H.H.”: At a field-day on
the property of F. W, Coleman
and Sons, Saddleworth (S.A.),
were shown four solitary plants
of Onus wheat, a variety popu-
lar in the early years of this cen-
tury, which Coleman senior did
much to popularise. He told
the visitors that when he heard
there were some aged packets of
Onus at Turretfield Experi-
mental Farm he obtained them.
The seeds were planted: the four
plants were the sole result. Onus
was a derivation from Federa-
tion and Tarago, two other
varieties popular at one time.
Federation is still used to a
large degree in the western
States of America. Coleman
said that he once got 64 grains
of Federation in a matchbox
from the U.S., and. in four
years, from those 64 grains he
sold 640 bags of wheat.
“Billjim”: To make a good
hay feeder place two strainers in
the ground (if trees are not
available) with two open forks,
the strainers three yards apart
and the forks 20in. above
ground. Place cyclone-wire in-
side the forks, tie bottom edge
of the wire together and fasten
top to the forks. Fill with hay
and press well down, placing
logs on top to keep it tight. This
supply will last several days.
“Myrr”: Don’t feed table-
birds within 24 hours of killing,
as the fasting simplifies cleaning
and improves the flesh. To kill,
hold the bird by the legs with
one hand and, taking the head
in the other, dislocate the neck
with a sharp, downward thrust.
Leave the skin unbroken to form
a sac in which the blood accu-
mulates. The head is not re-
moved until the bird is ready
for cleaning.
“Sarina”: Crepe myrtles are
handsome flowering shrubs for
coastal gardens and may be
good for inland parts. They
bloom from early December till
March, and are available in
pink, red and purple. They need
not be cut back until of a large
size, though they flower most
freely when kept small and
bushy. Grow them from cut-
tings or suckers.


Toast of
Connoisseurs J
The
0L
for
king
a s
o n
Keep
1
BRAND'
fUVNRtI
■
m.
m
m
m
ALL KINDS OF
FISHING TACKLE!
For river, beach and deep
sea fishermen. English and
French NYLON LINES...
hunting knives . . . smokers’
requisites. Write for new
fishing catalogue, ready soon.
CRAIG & AITKEN
654 George St., Sydney.
Phone M 6261.
R FINE HOTEL
A Hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading Hotels, Hut different to
every otHer in many things. THe
Wentworth, for instance. Has ever
teen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosptvere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
IVL
T n 7
IPhone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
FRENCI
(Corn Gurel
Cures Callouses and Corns
Available, at
[Anthony Horderns’]
Wliaf will they mab For you?
m
— 1
LED
UOD have to Choose!
Due to postwar shortages of labour,
materials and manufacturing equip-
ment, Australian industry is unable,
at present, to produce all the goods
we need. It could produce nearly all
the essentials required if we went
without luxuries. Or it could give
us the luxuries if we sacrificed the
necessities. We can’t have full
supplies of both,
A SIMPLE CHOICE
Obviously, then, we must do without
luxuries and the extent to which we
reduce the demand for these will
decide the severity of shortages of
essentials.
What you and every other Australian
should do is quite clear. Before
making a purchase of any kind, you
should ask yourself if it is really
necessary. If the answer is "no,” you
should postpone that purchase until
later.
By doing this you will not only help
divert Australia’s resources to the
production of essential goods, but
you will also save money for yourself.
BETTER BUYING LATER
You’ll be surprised how quickly the
amounts you save by not spending
grow to a substantial sum. Before
long you’ll find yourself in possession
of a really worthwhile amount for
which there will be plenty of good
use in the future. When shortages
have been overcome, when supply
has caught up with demand, when
prices have been stabilised, then this
money will buy you much more than
it can to-day and you will select the
things you want from wide ranges
of highest quality goods.
Save
TO HELP REDUCE
SHORTAGES
SAVE THIS WAY
1. Buy only what you really need.
Avoid luxuries. Get full value.
2. Buy for cash always.
3. Settle your debts then pay
your way.
4. Join a National Savings
Group.
5. Build up your Savings Bank
Account.
6. Invest in Commonwealth
Loans.
7. Increase your life assurance.
N 514.113.19
BABY
I
S'
LOVES
to revel In the delight-
ful cream-like lather of
Cuticura Soap. IC
keeps his tenaerskin
healthy and ex-
quisitely soft
and velvety.
One of the famous j
trio-Cuticura Soap,
Ointment and Tal-|
cum Powder.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend 0 f
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per ib. Posted.
A.A.A. HIIXTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted,
WINSTON READY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20lb,
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co..
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C.O.D. Orders.
ANSWERS TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No liability is undertaken re contributions
voluntarily submitted; and no MS, will be returned unless stamps accompany,
MS. should be addressed to the Editor.
J.E.; Ballads about curates of
interest only to the Religious Editor;
also, they’re too long. But keep
coming K.L.W.: You seem to
have something to say, but Barbara
will not be very happy rhymed to
“macabre” G.P.: Read some of
this century’s Australian poetry
M.G.: Too vague and wispy
R.C.C.: Earnest but lacks distinc-
tion C.G.8.: A frank criticism?
It’s hackneyed, insipid and dimly
pleasant M.W.: You are wasting
your wrath on Mr. Chifley....
A.T.Q.: Mostly words J.K.:
That’s one rabbit we’ve liquidated.
Bellerive: You do the animal
full justice:
. ...D.M.H.: Unable to rescue the
damsel who duels desperately dis-
tressed because we are still stuck on
the hilltop of that first stanza trying
to “bow our eyes”... .J.P.; An
amiable but almost inaudible piping.
PU.; “I have heard that you take
poems.” Read some of them, then.
Esau: “Grandly, swiftly sweep
ye, breezes.” Well, they’re sweeping.
J.F.S.; Write about this earth
instead of trying to climb off it
A.D.W.S.: Two lines, then, of your
emotions in Melbourne on Sun-
day:—
The gloom that permeates the Melbourne
air
Must cause the casual visitor to despair.
D.G.B.: Come again when
you’ve lived more and read more
R.F.: You might query that appoint-
ment but hardly, in a democracy,
the principle of it. And, anyhow,
“term” doesn’t rhyme with “con-
cern” Robbo: A very jerrybuilt
j0bb0.... Beresford: Apart from the
fact that it is the only poem ever
written on the “Sunday Herald” it
is without merit.. k .J.M.: Sooner or
later the rab.b'it menace was bound
to overwhelm us:
What miraculous creatures are rabbits I
Though purveyors of pastoral dearth
Their remarkably profligate habits
Give hats and fur coats to the earth.
So up the Australian Bunny
Which gives me my family’s keep.
It seems to me nothing but funny
To foster such vermin as sheep.
.... G.L.: Wrong number.... F.T.:
Not even the fact that you “have
five, one coming up,” could convince
us that
A baby’s scream.
Is a sparkling beam
Of light
Upon this weary world
We live
In.
.... D. 0.; Tanglefoot W.L.: Any
verse ending like “And the milking
machines went chug, chug, chugging
_atong”ought to be horsewhipped.
“Binnatang”: Usually those
who talk most about flora- and
fauna-protection are seldom to
be found assisting with any
practical scheme. On the other
hand, those who are fond of
hunting and fishing often carry
out some sound and practical
work. In the U.S. gun clubs
found that wildfowl were, de-
creasing in numbers. Birdlovers
declared that if people would
stop shooting everything would
be all right, but the gun clubs
enlisted the aid of scientists,
who conducted a continent-wide
investigation into the problem.
These found that swamp-drain-
age, land-reclamation and the
building of levees to control
floods had wiped out many
breeding-grounds. Thereupon
the hunters formed a “Ducks
Unlimited” syndicate and got to
work. Many seasonal swamps
were useless for breeding be-
cause the water in them dried
up before young ducks were old
enough to fly ; this was cured by
putting banks across the outlet
channels to raise the water-level.
More permanent lakes meant
more fishing spots, and fishing
clubs gave a hand. Today
America has more wildfowl and
other aquatic birds than at any
time within living memory. A
similar syndicate could achieve
equally impressive results here,
but in the meantime anyone who
has a good duck-breeding swamp
or lagoon on his property can
do this: Collect hollow logs
three or four feet long and with
an internal diameter of about
9in. Block one end by nailing
a bit of old galvanised-iron over
it; cut the other end off on a
slant to provide a spot where the
parent birds can alight. Select
smooth-barked trees anywhere
near the swamp which have a Y-
fork at least 7ft. from the
ground—they can be up to a
quarter of a mile back from the
water —and put one of your
hollow logs in each fork, tilting
the open end slightly downward.
Fix it firmly in place by driving
a couple of big spikes through
holes bored in it—-ducks won’t
nest in anything which wobbles
about—and you have provided
sites for nests where foxes
cannot reach them and where
the eggs will be safe from crows.
Out of 12 such logs put up
around one swamp 10 were in
use during the first season ; many
of those which my cobbers and
I put up 20 years ago are still
in use. A few thousand such
nest-logs put up would be of
more service to our wildfowl
than all the conservation talks
ever talked.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”; Money can be
made by growing trees for
timber (B. 12/1/’49), and you
don’t have to wait so very long
for returns. You can do it in
that part of southern Australia
which has a Mediterranean
climate of winter rain and a dry
summer, and with an annual
rainfall of 20in. or more, by
planting the Caucasian ash, so
popular for street or garden
planting, spaced 6ft. apart, and
later pruning laterals off to a
height of Bft. to get straight,
clean boles. The timber makes
splendid hayfork-, rake-, pick-
and other tool-handles, and is
also in good demand for the
making of sporting-goods. It
can be cut when 18 years of
age; it shoots again from the
stumps, and the coppice growth
which follows is better for timber
than the original. The Osage
orange, planted about 2ft. apart
along fence-lines and similarly
pruned, will at about 18 years
yield timber that splits straight,
and is also excellent for tool-
handles. It also regenerates from
stump-suckers. Bat-w i 11 o w
planted along creek banks can
also be a money-spinner. It can
be cut at 15 years and also re-
generates. For shade and beauty
plant the cork-oak. In this case
the income is derived from the
bark ; the first stripping—an ex-
pert’s job—can be done when
the tree is 16 years old and
every eight to 10 years there-
after. Rough cork is required
for many industrial purposes.
But leave the growing of pines
alone—that’s a job for Govern-
ment forestry departments or big
companies.
RHYME OF HEYENA.
The Heyena.
The ferocious heyena
Of zoological renown
Of muscular strength
And skin of brown.
As it prowls at night
From its sheltered lair
Its shrill wails waft
Thro the darkened air.


FINEST INTERIOR
WATER PAINT
Maisone is a noteworthy water paint,
oil-bound for durability.
Maisone colours have been chosen with
the greatest care so that they will
give the utmost in distinction and at
the same time blend it with
practically* any type of
furnishing scheme.
1 gallon makes gallons of paint
Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
JACKSON 4
OSUiUVAN
■,% mm *.
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
BEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AND AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
Manufacturers of:
"NATIONAL” WINDOW FACE
ENVELOPES
-“NATIONAL” BLUEPLEX ENVELOPES
CARTONS, LABELS AND WRAPPERS
COUNTER CHECK BOOKS
ROLL FEED STATIONERY
“national” FINE ACCOUNT BOOKS
SANDERS PATENT BINDER FILES
RECORDING GRAPHS AND CHARTS
FOR GAS, STEAM, WATER AND
ELECTRIC USAGES
“national” ROTARY DUPLICATORS
“PROTECTA SELF-REGISTERING TILLS
PROCESS ENGRAVINGS IN ONE OR
MORE COLOURS
PURE BRITISH PARCHMENT
BUTTER WRAPS
“NATIONAL WAXED MILK
BOTTLE CAPS
RUBBER STAMPS
OFFICE SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT
HIGH GRADE CATALOGUES
ILLUMINATED ADDRESSES
Telegrams and Cables
“jACKSUL,” BRISBANE
i
ruszbe
iW
V
GUARANTEED, NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM’S No. I CUP
The No. I Drink
for wise men
“For sale —quantity of apples,
suitable for poisoning rabbits;
cheap.” —Narrandera “Argus.”
We know those apples; but
in the city they cost 3d. each.
+ 4* +
‘This is a true plumber story to
end all plumber stories.”
—Sydney “Sunday Sun”
We’ll believe it, but it’ll be a
bit of a wrench.
4* 4* 4*
Sydneysiders are convinced
that their County Council has
absolutely no power to prevent
blackouts.
4* 4* 4*
‘Max Reimann, West German
Communist leader, has been sen-
tenced to three months’ imprison-
ment by a British court.”
Someone must have potted the
Red.
“Lane Cove were first to bat and
were soon in trouble against the
accurate bowling of the Incognito
bowlers.”
—Cricket report in suburban paper.
The batsmen failed to recog-
nise the wrong-’uns,
+ +
“I am writing to ask for your
advice. I think the main trouble is
that I have a moon face.”
—Correspondent in woman’s paper. I
Just let it reflect a little sun- I
shine, dear. j
4* 4 1 £
“Wanted, easy or Sunday work, do
anything.”— Local paper.
Why not apply for admission
to the Waterside Workers’
Federation?
•b 4*
“Gentleman’s straight walking stick,
left train at Wahroonga, 4.20 p.m.
on Tuesday, ,25th.”
—Suburban paper.
It got entirely out of hand
and went its own way,
4* 4*
Carried Unanimously.
“Fashions in women’s hats are as
changeable as the weather.”
— Women’s paper.
Perhaps! But I recall to mind
One style (pert and con-
spicuous)
That’s never obsolete—the kind
That ALWAYS looks ridicu-
lous !
P.O.M.C.
Taxing Our Credulity.
“The Government recognises that
the current sales tax on daily necessi-
ties increases the cost of living and is
causing a measure of inflation.”
—Sydney “Sun, v
Ah! What can suddenly have
caused our shrewd
And calculating Treasurer to feel
Himself most unexpectedly im>-
bued
With thoughts paternal for the
common weal
That show themselves in deep
solicitude ?
How has it come about that the
sadistic
Delight with which he one time
piled upon
A patient people hosts of im-
posts fistic
Has vanished like the melting
snows and gone
To yield at last to measures al-
truistic ?
Can it be true that he at last has
found
What he appeared for ever to
have lost,
The sense to see that our Aus-
tralian pound
Has long since ceased to pace it
with the cost
Of living, thanks to theories un-
sound ?
Or is it simply cunning sophistry
That makes him ease at this be-
lated date
The tax- on this and that com-
modity
In one last frantic effort to
inflate
His party’s waning popularity ?
D. H. E.
Winding Up- His Career.
“Opposition members are hoping
that the Government will be em-
barrassed this year by the irrepress-
ible, unpredictable and highly self-
assertive Max Falstein.”
—Sydney "Sun.”
Just what Ben Chif. and com-
pany
Can fear from Max it’s hard to
see,
Unless they’re scared of future
quarrels
If he perchance should steal the
laurels
Of one whose self-assertiveness
No criticism can repress;
And yet it’s safe to estimate
That Max won’t have an over-
great
Effect upon the reputation
Of this great figure of our nar
tion,
In fact the risk is very slim —•
Provided watch is kept on him !
BERT.
A Clear Picture.
Concern has been expressed
in many quarters as to where
the Chinese Civil War has dis-
appeared to. It is not merely
that it has been chased off the
front pages of our dailies by the
latest turf swab case, for that is
the natural order of things in
the New Journalism. After all,
even civil wars must expect to
be relegated to quarter of a
stickful on page 14 between the
astrological notes and the fat-
stock sales when an important
dope-case decision is expected
before deadline. But the whole
war has been getting completely
lost somewhere between Tientsin
and Port Jackson, and punters
here who have had a few bob
on their fancy, or have been
taking doubles on the times put
up by various crack regiments
in retreats, have been naturally
gulled at a complete blackout as
to whether they’ve won or lost.
As the various dope-cases,
murders, Hollywood divorces,
beach-girl and lovely-mother
competitions, views of union
“If I can't have a stomach , YOU cant!”
officials, political scandals and
’teen-age news continues to
muscle the Chinese Civil War
news into the w.p.b. The fol-
lowing clear picture of events is
provided through a series of
cables from a special inter-
national news service;
From the Special Correspon-
dent in Tientsin of the Peoria
(Fla.) “Panhandler.”
“It is learned on unimpeach-
able authority that General
Pong Hi, the Communist com-
mander, who is charged, among
other things, with the task of
getting his armies across the
Yang-tsz, is merely waiting for
supplies from Russia of cather-
ine-wheels, fish-bowls, preserved
ginger, rope singlets and batter-
ing-rams before attempting the
final assault, which he claims
will definitely take place some
Thursday fortnight. To cross
the fast-flowing Yang-tsz the
General has placed an order on
a South-China firm for a fleet
of jet-propelled sampans. In the
meantime he has ordered the
nationalisation of all laundries,
fan-tan schools and long-soup
and dim-sim foundries in Tient-
sin, and has struck a capital levy
of 12 million Chinese dollars
(A2s. B£d.) on every man, woman
and child in Yoo Hoo Province,
With this he expects to be able
to buy at least 17 Nationalist
generals.
The Foreign Correspondent
of the Moose Bend (Pa.) “Mast-
head” reports from Tientsin that
General Pong Hi crossed the
Yang-tsz with his 1841st Route
Army three weeks ago with no
opposition and is now only half
a mile off the Indo-Chinese
border. The crossing for the
troops was brilliantly effected by
using a human chain of soldiers ;
jeeps, guns, tanks and heavy
equipment were ferried across
on special all-iron rafts. This
brilliant manoeuvre, says the
correspondent, completely non-
plussed the Nationalist defender.
General Por Sap, who, by pre-
viously buying up all the cork
in Tientsin, though he had his
vis-a-vis checkmated. Latest
reports were that General Por
Sap had crossed the Yang-tsz to
the north bank and was last seen
leading his troops by about half
a mile in the general direction
of Outer Mongolia. Before de-
parting General Por Sap ex-
pressed his willingness to con-
tinue to fight the Communists
to the death provided he got
from America a fleet of Buicks,
a Constellation and a four-poster
bed for his private use, as well
as baseball equipment and
100,000 pairs of strong running-
shoes for his troops.
Blumenthal Bortz, the very
Foreign Correspondent of
Centers’, whose prediction after
the atom-bomb had fallen on
Hiroshima that Japan would
surrender within 12 months
proved so remarkably accurate,
says in a dispatch from Tientsin
that General Chiang Kai-shek
is to join the Band of
Hope, that he has decided
to renounce all worldly
goods except his private Sky-
master and two Cadillacs and
his bank accounts, and that he
has deliberately cut himself off
from all news of the civil con-
flict except what he hears over
his all-wave American radio.
Bortz predicts that the present
stalemate in the region of the
Yang-tsz will shortly be broken
when the 200 new Kuomintang
divisions now being brilliantly
trained in the latest methods of
trench warfare and magnificently
equipped with reconditioned
Martini-Henry rifles go into
action. He further expects that
General For Sap, whose retreats
have set new records for speed
and stamina, will take the offen-
sive when the floods start, or
finish, or both.
Hiram Q. Seltzerfizzer, in a
dispatch to N.A.N.A., says he is
convinced the Yang-tsz could
never be crossed by Communist
armies without their suffering
stupendous losses. He bases
this report that the Nationalist
General Chu On Gum, several
of whose pilots can boast air-
loggings of as high as 18 hours,
has taken over the air defence
of the area. General Chu ex-
pects that all his six Kittyhawks
must, if their rebored engines
get back from Japan in time,
inflict terrific slaughter on armies
caught in midstream. Seltzer-
fizzer also learns that circles
close to the Soong family pre-
dict that Chiang, who has not
resigned the Presidency, but has
been regaining his spiritual
orientation by standing on one
ear for four hours daily in pro-
found meditation of the teach-
ings of the famous Chinese
philosopher So Wat, will shortly
negotiate a peace with the
Communists on the basis of a
coalition Government in which
neither side will have any say
in the governing of the country.
This formula, the Generalissimo
confidently expects, will over-
come any objection that the
Kuomintang will have a pre-
ponderance of representation. It
is understood that the Com-
munist leader, King Pin, took an
afternoon off to go to the pic-
tures in Tientsin to study the
proposals.
Bo.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first Is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Near Enough’s Good Enough
■ If “Dee’s” defence of our Australian
standards (B. 29/12/’4B) is intended to
show that we are coping with tropical
conditions in Queensland, and making a
good fist of it, then maybe our White
Australia policy is not faulty. If he
believes we can make full use of the
north country eventually, he has good
evidence of more than 100 years of effort
to back him up.
If, however, he merely intends to show
that our “near enough’s good enough”
attitude is excusable, he should have
written the article before he left Sydney.
Anyway, his argument is somewhat spoilt
by overstatement. I think our Baltic
canecutters will smile when they read that
Queensland’s climatic odds are “the fierc-
est and most implacable enemies civilisa-
tion has yet had to face.”
There are plenty of pioneers now living
who worked outback in the days when
a broken chain put a farm machine out
of action ; who mended the break with a
piece of fencing-wire, and got back on
the job satisfied that time Was saved and
the repair was “near enough.” But I
am sure “Dee’s” Englishwoman did not
direct her criticism at these clever make-
shifts, the “mallee gates,” “Coolgardie
safes,” and the dozens of contrivances
the earliest pioneers used in their camps
when all the furniture was “on forks.”
I imagine her criticism was directed at
slipshod manners, slipshod speech,
second-hand thinking, inefficient service,
nepotism in high places, readiness to con-
done obvious rackets; or perhaps she
had merely been a passenger on a train
to Canberra to hear our statesmen govern
the country.
The acceptance of the second-rate, in
our cities especially, is obvious in small
things. We take our unwrapped bread
from the dirty, sweaty hands of the
breadcarter, watch him' nip his cigarette
between finger and thumb before he
makes his book-entry, offer him a cool
drink, and take the bread straight to
our dining tables. We appreciate his
difficulties and attach no blame to him,
and by our attitude to the food we are
going to eat endorse the “near enough’s
good enough” line of thought.
The argument that Queensland can be
excused because it is under the influence
of tropical conditions is worthless in face
of the fact that our Australian standards
don’t stem from Brisbane, but from the
Melbourne, Sydney and Adelaide mil-
lions who live well below the tropic belt.
Let us not confuse our ability, our
competence to build, our technical know-
how, our intellectual quality judged on a
world basis, with the fact that as a nation
generally we are slipshod in the art of
living as white people understand it.—
B. P. P. (N.S.W.).
Housing
“Islander” cannot have long been back
in N.S.W. or he would realise that
although sub-letting of accommodation is
“no real solution of the housing problem”
(B. 5/1/’49) it at least affords a certain
amount of relief from tent-dwelling and
horror-camps such as Hargrave Park.
Were home-construction as easy as he
implies the housing problem would have
been solved long ago.
Before the last N. S. Wales election
Premier McGirr blithely promised to con-
struct 90,000 houses in three years, if re-
elected—a promise which no doubt had
quite a bit to do with his return to office.
Immediately after resuming his position
in the box-seat he announced that his
target of 90,000 houses was a compre-
hensive one which included the output
of private enterprise as well as Govern-
ment and Government-sponsored projects.
After two years the people are sadly
aware that 90,000 houses were just a pipe-
dream —or an election vote-catcher with
no possible chance of fulfilment.
Building for war cannot be compared
with building for peace. In war-time cost
is the last thing that matters; in peace-
time it is the very first. One of the major
troubles with home-construction today
from the point of view of the working-
man is the cost of even the meanest
cottage—a cost which has risen so steeply
during the past few years that the average
man just can’t afford a home of his own.
Another important factor is that of
time. It takes 18 months or more to get
a house completed—and a year and a
half is too long a time to spend in Har-
grave Park or in a tent in someone’s
backyard.
The number of houses relative to popu-
lation is greater now titan before the war,
v/hen one could rent a cottage in almost
any street any time. The plain fact is
that the distribution of available accom-
modation has become unbalanced, and
until the trouble is righted there will be
a housing shortage. Poor as are most
expedients—and sharing accommodation
is only an expedient—shared accommo-
dation is still to be preferred to mass-
constructed camps such as any Govern-
ment would provide under “Islander’s”
scheme. — Jindivick (N.S.W.).
Total War
Despite my “naivete,” I am afraid
I must disagree with “No Sirrah” (B.
9/2/49) in his suggestion that the British
did not set their faces against the destruc-
tion of ordinary citizens in the bombing
war. They did, and the matter was a
serious bone of contention between
Churchill and Stalin on one occasion.
British bombing policy in Europe
in no way resembled that of the Ameri-
cans in Japan. There were a few
accidents through the mistaking of ob-
jectives, but where there was saturation
bombing it was directed at truly military
objectives. I know of only one case in
Europe where there was British bombing
which did not have a direct military
objective, and in that case the organ-
isers paid. And even that was not
like Hiroshima. There the bomber
chose a point to fire his bomb at
which there was no military objective,
unless it was the post-office. It was a
point at which thousands of young girla
“I’m afraid your dinner's been spoiled , dear.”
and boys going to school, typistes and
shopgirls going to their offices and market
people returning to their farms could be
expected to be congregated. The huge
naval depot a couple of miles away, with
all its embarkation and military acces-
sories and stores, was ignored, though it
presented a better mark. It remained
intact. There were other cases.
And it is a fallacy—and a stupid one —
to argue that “Germany’s raids on Lon-
don might have won the war for her if
she had only been able to keep each
phase going a little longer.” The Ger-
mans took fifty-times what Britain took
and still had to be invaded from both
sides, before giving in. —Ek Dum
(N.S.W.).
Coal
Coal has become the main economic
danger-line in Australia. Nowhere is
industry receiving sufficient of it to make
full-strength output possible, and every
community is living in constant fear that
the Comrades on the Newcastle fields will
bring about yet another hold-up, with all
that is implied in reduced or no gas
supplies, rationed power, rail and tram
services cut to the bone. With no coal
reserves on hand the country lives on a
continual deadline; the caprice of the
temperamental miner or the designs of
Communists make all planning for the
future worthless.
This situation exists largely because the
coalminers of the New South Wales
fields have a virtual monopoly of coal
in their hands, and these miners are,
above all, the tools of the Comrades,
who can call the industrial tune through-
out Australia.
Now for the other side of the crazy
picture. For some time Queensland has
been exporting coal to Noumea, and it
is now announced that coal is to be
exported to Hong Kong and China,
where, incidentally, it may well help to
bolster the growing Communist economy
in the latest sphere of Mqscow influence.
All this coal comes from the Callide
Valley, and the big opencuts, with their
diffusion of labor and the divorcement of
coalmining from its deep-level profes-
sionalised background, are capable of
turning out vast quantities of coal.
Yet while China, Hong Kong and
Noumea can reap the benefits of this
opencut mining, the Victorian Govern-
ment is facing enormous difficulties in
trying to get Callide coal down to Vic-
torian factories.
The hold-up in Queensland is, of
course, transport. There are not enough
trucks to get worth-while quantities over-
land to the Queensland border; the
blank wall of the broken gauge prevents
southern trucks being used; there are so
few trucks available on Queensland’s
antiquated railways that the full develop-
ment of opencut mining is not possible
even for Queensland’s own use; and
even if there were enough trucks to get
the stuff to Gladstone for shipping there
are not sufficient port facilities to handle
it. Some of the Noumea coal came
down to Gladstone by road transport—
at a price ; most of the Hong Kong-
China contracts will go down by road —
at a price.
Yet the irony of the whole situation is
that the inexhaustible supplies available
from Queensland opencuts could be the
answer to the Communist grip on the
N.S.W. fields, and the Corns know it;
once a great flow of coal becomes avail-
able from a secondary source the real
power of the N.S.W. Communists will
be broken, simply because the opencuts
can produce in quantity and without the
vast psychological complexes associated
with deep-level mining.
While so much is being said and
nothing done about the broken gauges,
it might be kept in mind that a third rail
run into Queensland so that N.S.W.
rolling-stock could penetrate direct into
the opencut mining areas would, per-
haps, be the first big practical step
towards breaking the Com. power in
the coal industry. With a third rail used
only for coal transport, coal could go
from the Callide and Blair Athol down
to the Victorian border and right through
to South Australia.
If there are technical difficulties about
a third rail, why not a joint-Government
plan to build a standard-gauge line
through to the Callide, or at least a
standard-gauge line from the opencuts
to the Queensland ports?
Until something of the kind is
done, Australia will continue to be a
coal-hungry, coal-exporting country. —
Dee (Q.).
Country Towns
As “L.P.” observes (B. 19/1/’49)
motor-transport brought the blight of
decadence to small country towns and
their environs. By taking the tedium and
hardship out of travelling, this swift mode
of transport made it a pleasure to dash
into a larger centre for a day’s shopping
or to undertake a trip to the city. For
the same reason, the younger fry de-
veloped the habit of trekking off to the
more glamorous pleasures that beckoned
in the distance. The lure was, in many
instances, accelerated by free or sub-
sidised motor-transport. That explains
why country towns which, 40 years ago,
were hubs of home-made fun and frolic
are now dead alleys.
What the inhabitants of small towns
forget, however, is that while motor-
transport carries out it can also carry in.
The march of progress cannot be
arrested, and sitting down and moaning
about good old days will not recover
shekels that have fled to fill pockets else-
where.
The situation postulates a challenge—to
recover what has been lost or its equiva-
lent. It demands, too, the display of a
little more foresight and much more pro-
gressiveness than was evinced by the rate-
payers of a municipality not 50 miles
from Sydney who, 11 years ago and when
materials and labor were plentiful, held
public meetings to protest against the
local council accepting a Government
offer to finance a sewerage scheme. They
protested to good effect and to their sub-
sequent regret. They are still regretting.
It is doubtful if there is one small
country town that is entirely devoid of
some attribute —tourist resort, facilities
for industry, healthy climate, etc. —which,
properly exploited, would lift it to a place
of some importance and interest. —J. W.
(N.S.W.).
“L.P.’s” complaint of the lack of
modern amenities in the typical Aus-
tralian country town is too sweeping. In
B. 17/11 /’4B it was pointed out that in
the matter of
dams, long pipe-lines, electric-grid systems,
roads, bathing-pools, libraries, sewerage,
telephones—Australian country districts,
scattered over a vast area, have these things
to an extent as great as, if not greater than,
comparable communities in other parts of
the world. The, comparative primitiveness
of many parts of rural U.S.A., for instance,
would shock Australians.
—Dentoris (N.S.W.).
I live in one of Victoria’s largest towns
(population 7000), which has aspirations
towards becoming a city, and will this
year celebrate ‘TOO years of progress.”
There are not, however, more than half
a dozen modern houses in the town, and
those belong to persons in the higher-
income group. Brick houses are rare,
partly because of subsiding foundations
and lack of brickworks in the district, but
also because country people generally are
not house-conscious. Most architecture
is “early Wimmera” —a passage down the
centre opening into a dining-room with
rooms leading off the passage two by
two and kitchen and bathroom under a
skillion roof at the back.
Many farmhouses are worse. Even
some of the better ones consist of two
separate buildings joined together, with a
sort of no-man’s-land vestibule in the
centre, and different floor levels. The
sleeping-quarters and kitchen of the
poorer ones are often linked together by
additional roofing, the space beneath con-
taining a wash-basin on a box and an
assortment of tools and wheat-sacks.
Inflated prices prevail: nothing less
than £2OOO is asked for any kind of house
in the town, area and £5OO for a vacant
block. Places one mile out, without gas
and sewerage and on an unmade road,
bring £1500; vacant land goes for £250.
Compare this with a £2OO-block only 11
miles from Melbourne on a made road
with all services.
Young people who came to prosperous
country towns after the war are disillu-
sioned by country housing standards and
prices. Comparison between value
obtained in an investment of £2OOO for a
10-year-old house in the country and one
of similar age in the suburbs is driving
many of them back to the city.—
Carlyle (Vic.).
While country towns may be passing
in Victoria (B. 19/1/’49), a marked feature
in some parts of N.S.W. is not their
passing, but their revival. Rail-transport,
which is much worse on the Blue Moun-
tains lines than it was 20 years ago, has
made no difference to the almost fantastic
rise of towns like Penrith and Katoomba,
while the Parramatta of today is a flour-
ishing city compared with the one-horse
country town it was 30 years ago.
Good bus services now link the moun-
tains with Wollongong, and Pioneer
Tours are opening up country towns.
The drift to the city has been halted to a
large measure in many places, and where
it continues the main reason is the lack
of educational facilities. Not only are
many country schools poorly equipped,
but few intellectual advantages are to be
derived from what libraries exist. Up-to-
date textbooks and worth-while works by
living authors are almost unprocurable,
and libraries in general are hardly worth
the name.
Country towns are also ill-served in
the matter of intellectual entertainment.
Canberra itself has no regular theatre,
while Lismore, which has a good one,
does not seem able to support it per-
manently. Country towns were better
served with real entertainment before me
rise of movies. Nowadays residents have
to be content with an occasional dance
in the local hall, an indifferent amateur
show now and again and movies.
Although housing remains a problem
in the country it is no worse than in the
city. No doubt the richness of outlying
districts, the advent of new industries, an
active council or an active politician
can account for the rise of many a
country town. But unless the educational
factor has been considered, and it always
has been, no rising country town will keep
its population. Population depends upon
the young. If the children haven’t to
leave home to be educated they will grow
up in their home-town and always remain
part of it. — Mountain Maggie (N.S.W.).


Rabaul
If the truth about the sacrifice of the
Rabaul garrison (B. 26/l/’49) is ever
told it will reveal one of the most shame-
ful episodes in Australian history. Here
are a few facts:
Those men were sent to a malarious
area. Atebrin was not known as a pre-
ventive in those days, and, although we
now know that quinine does hot prevent
malaria, it does help one to throw off
an attack. Quinine was in short supply
in Rabaul—and everywhere else in the
Pacific area at the time—yet there were
millions of quinine tablets in our medical
stores in the Middle East. That immense
supply of the drug was sent back to
Australia when the A.I.F. returned from
the M.E., but the quinine was carefully
stored in S.A., where it remained while
the shortage continued in New. Guinea.
Had even a small fraction of that quinine
been where it was needed, each man in
the Rabaul garrison could have been
issued with an emergency supply—even
100 tablets per man would have enabled
many of the survivors to cross the
Gazelle Peninsula in that disastrous and
heartbreaking retreat, instead of collaps-
ing with fever and dying by the side of
the track.
The training of the garrison before the
attack was mainly of the bulldust and
spit-and-polish variety, in which not
going around with the top button of the
shirt undone was considered to be
far more important than a thing still
neglected in Army training—teaching a
man to hit what he aims at in the dark.
(It isn’t done by using the sights, but by
looking down the side of the barrel;
it’s not something new, but a very old
dodge used by the Boers 100 years ago
to shoot buck coming to drink at night.)
The possibility of the garrison being
overwhelmed and having to retreat was
never considered; no dumps of food,
medicine, clothing, ammunition, salt or
boots were established inland on the
escape routes.
The men of the garrison were taught
nothing about finding food in an emer-
gency. A friend of mine in A.N.G.A.U.
rescued some of the survivors; he found
them, too weak from hunger to travel
farther, hiding in a patch of cassava, one
of the world’s chief food plants. They
weren’t using it because they had not
been shown how to recognise it or how
to prepare its edible root. A.N.G.A.U.
men managed to survive in similar
country when they were on coast-watch-
ing duties and food supplies could not
reach them ; later, when men were being
taught land and sea survival, some air-
men, who had been trained by bushmen
at Cairns, made their way across country
from where they had to crash-land their
plane near Rabaul to near Cape
Gloucester, living on wild yams, lily-seed
heads, the seeds of the Job’s tear-grass
and the freshwater prawn, which is as
easy to catch in tropical creeks as the
yabbie in Australia.
There definitely should be an inquiry
into the fall of Rabaul. Evidence should
be taken from ex-A.N.G.A.U. men who
were on the spot at the time and from
files in which the need for the right kind
of training was brought to the notice
of Army Minister Forde. —Ex-R.S.M.
(S.A.).
Immigrants
“R.H.” (B. 26/T/’49) represents the
small minority of new migrants who have
found homes suitable for their family
groups. He is lucky, but even in his
starry-eyed optimism he must admit that
there is a tragic shortage of domestic
accommodation for importees; that
thousands of intending migrants are being
warned off for that reason, and that a
great many who have arrived here full of
hope are returning whence they came,
poorer and wiser.
The argument that houses are scarce
and dear in England is irrelevant. The
shortage there is due to enemy action.
The shortage here is due to “friendly” in-
action. And England is not yelling for
Australians to go overseas to help her.
Equally irrelevant was the jibe at my
white-collar status. After many years
of study and training I’ve acquired a
certain skill which fits me for a position
more difficult and responsible than that
of temporary postman. If I have an
ambition to provide my wife with some
of the refinements of life, and to educate
my children beyond the primary standard,
I am within my rights and need no
apology.
Samuel Johnson once said of a dinner
that it was fair, but not worth sending out
invitations for. Australia has its good
points, but before sending out urgent in-
vitations to multitudes of guests it should
make some effort to prepare decent hos-
pitality for the strangers.
That cannot be done while the Aussies
continue to strike, restrict their output
of building materials and reduce their
“Pardon my butting-in at the front of the queue, but I'm in a hurry.
construction quotas to a farcical
minimum. My fellow-migrants did not
whine amid the rubble and the blood of
the blitz, but we do murmur amongst our-
selves about the unnecessary hardships
caused by sheer organised laziness in a
land blessed with peace and potential
plenty -Hadit (S.A.).
State Insurance
A hint has been thrown out by the
Labor party in Victoria (which already
has a State Government Accident Insur-
ance Office) that there should be a State
Fire Insurance Office. The main argu-
ment in favor was that of alleged
monopoly —that at present, under private
enterprise, there was only one market for
insurance provided by the private in-
surance companies known as the tariff
offices. Certainly the latter do establish
their own rates, but there is an outside
market consisting of both companies and
Lloyds, and the private individual or
merchant has had the option of selection
for many years.
The N. S. Wales Government Office
when it was established obtained the rates,
policy conditions and other clauses and
conditions from the tariff offices on the
understanding that these would be
observed. In the absence of this funda-
mental information the Government
office would have been unable to com-
mence business, except after much re-
search and at great expense ; as it was the
Government office, using the brains and
“stock-in-trade” of the tariff offices, was
able to set up in business without normal
establishment expenses, and was thus able
to compete for business from a privileged
position.
It has to be remembered that in the
fire department, where the claims ratio
has for some time been low, no account is
taken of the fact that when fires do occur
they may be disastrous conflagrations.
Reserves must be accumulated to meet
such contingencies. Further, insurance is
not merely a matter of accepting a
premium on the one hand and paying
claims on the other, especially in the fire
department. The tariff offices render a
great deal of service in the prevention
and extinction of fires—the fire premium
carries the cost of fire brigades, which in
one State last year represented 10.7 per
cent, of the premium, or 2s. 2d. in every
£l.
Certainly insurance companies make
a profit—it represents a return on capital
invested—but before it filters through to
the shareholders it is subject to taxation
by the Commonwealth. That is another
cost for which the State Government In-
surance Office would not be liable, be-
cause as a State instrumentality it would
not be taxable by the Commonwealth.
It is pertinent to recall that the British
Labor Minister, in introducing the “1946
Assurance Companies Act,” stated that
the “1946 Act acknowledges the inher-
ently international and comprehensive
character of insurance.” The Labor
president of the Board of Trade in the
House of Commons also stated that it
would be proper to inform the House of
the attitude of the Labor Government
toward the future of British insurance
business. The Government, he stated,
had no intention of interfering with the
transaction of insurance business by
private enterprise. It is, he stated further,
the desire of the Government that in-
surance should be, in the future, as in the
past, dealt with on an international basis
and as business of an international
character. —O. A. (Vic.).
War Decorations
At an investiture held at Government
House a winner of the Distinguished
Flying Cross was, handed his decoration
by the Governor-General, but when he
got home he found that it was not in-
scribed with his name, rank, number or
unit. It was just a plain D.F.C. with no
indication of the individual to whom it
was awarded.
The Government has made much of
the cost and delay involved in having the
campaign medals inscribed, and, weak
though the excuses are, there may be
some slight justification. But presenta-
tion of a decoration for specific bravery
without the suitable inscription is an
insult to the recipient.
Doesn’t the Royal Warrant under which
all decorations are issued provide" that
they must have inscribed thereon the
name, number, rank and unit of the
winner? — Recco (N.S.W.).
Bonython
Thousands of South Australians were
disappointed at Bonython being dropped
in the naming of new electorates. It had
a special claim for the honor, for no name
stands higher in the central State. Sturt
is commemorated in so many places that
any more memorials would be super-
fluous.
Sir Langdon Bonython was one of
Adelaide’s greatest philanthropists. He
was a man of rugged independence and
character. The manner in which he built
up the Adelaide “Advertiser” reads like
an epic, for he rose from messenger-boy
to proprietor.
Moreover, it would be appropriate to
call the new electorate after him, as he
was a member of the first Common-
wealth Parliament. —A. D. (S.A.).
Drysdale Mission
At the risk of making the Drysdale
Mission blacks publicity-conscious some-
one should act as spokesman for them to
tell “Refidex” (B. 22/12/’4B) that he has
moved their home farther than the Japs
did.
“R.” is right in saying that the mission
was first established on the shore of the
bay and later transferred 16 miles inland,
but the new site was on King George V
River, not Drysdale River. The mission
was not “wiped out” by the raid, but
carried on its good work under canvas
about four miles farther along the river.
The mission buildings, however, were
destroyed, some being burned out and the
rest rendered uninhabitable. Father
Thomas was the only white casualty, but
several abos (four, I believe, including two
children) were also killed.
“R.” said that the German organ was
“destroyed by Jap bombs,” but that the
mission building was undamaged. Actu-
ally the organ was destroyed by one
machine-gun bullet the course of which
was traced by a friend of mine, an
organist in civil life, and one of the sur-
viving priests. The bullet destroyed every
note, but the framework was otherwise
undamaged.
The raid was probably made in the
belief that there was an R.A.A.F. unit
there, a wrong impression given by the
fact that the roofs of the buildings carried
Red Cross emblems.
Returning' to the subject of boom-
erangs, my contention that the Canboo-
merri abos knew nothing about them until
the R.A.A.F. came is supported by artist
Jolliffe. He spent several months there as
a camouflage expert and made thousands
of sketches. In the hundreds of his draw-
ings published since then, mostly based
on those sketches, there is not one boom-
erang to be seen. And I’m ready to back
his pictorial record for accuracy against
“R.’s” index or my own memory. Ha,
too, attended their corroborees. If “R.”
has a souvenir boomerang from there I
suggest that he sandpaper it carefully and
look carefully for those old familiar
letters “M.« and V.”
I’m still waiting to see a Jolliffe draw-
ing showing Australian abos drinking,
as they have been taught by their Spanish
guardians, from a waterbag held at arm’s-
length in the manner of a Spanish peasant
drinking from his wine-skin. — Kilken-
NICAT (S.A.).
"THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 4
Across.
I — A place where aeroplanes land
with the District Attorney and
Mrs. Perseus. (9)
4—Author who never alters. (5)
6—Four across in the first steamer
at the end of part of Scotland
that never sins? (9)
9—Metal to be in the van. (4)
II — Paschal dishonesty causes Hows.
(10)
12 —Just the island to talk garru-
lously and boringly on nothing.
\ (4)
14— Are between thd piano and the
Hitler-Mussolini alliance for
practice. (6)
15— Venerate the French dream about
a famous horseman. (6)
18 — This girl and boy are presumably
on the level now. (6)
19— Subject vessel in an African
river. (6)
21 —Leave at Capricorn. (4)
23 —The fish comes in with the
tradesmen. (10)
25 — Swing around when put to death.
(4)
26 — Put into the new order behind
the mountains. (9)
27 This part of the bathroom per-
mits an educated man to be
wicked. (5)
28— Cut off the measures of the ship-
repair depots. (9)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
(Solution in next issue.)
Down.
1 — When the Duchess of Gloucester
jumps in “the centre.” (5, 7)
2 Ruin saved up by a famous Eng-
lish bowler. (9)
3 A State before the coppers re-
plied. (8)
4 This creature is always in love.
(4)
5 Lasso. (5)
7 Grass and I stand over Edward
when the matter is prepared
again for publication. (8)
8— Measures the letters that are
often conspicuous in Welsh. (4)
10 —The Leaving Certificate girl is
surrounded by ardent admirers,
including these sheepish experts.
(4, 8)
13 —Payment which prevents a
veteran servant from working for
anybody else? (8)
fellow from Queensland,
N.S.W. and Victoria has a much
more severe finish to him. (9)
17 —Married again? (8)
20 —First class pop turns up in
Samoa. (4)
22 —This phenomenal porter carries
a spilt commodity for the table.
(5)
24 —Bird takes to heart the State it
represents between opposite di-
rections. (4)
SOLUTION TO CROSSWORD No. 3.


irai
r
L_
□
PLATTS
539
539
PLATTS
DI/PO/PL /TORE
ŵ
n
Stormproof
Candle
Lanterns
Ideal for that camp-
ing tour. Clean and
simple to handle.
A beautiful bright,
protected white
light. Safe, worth
30/-. Yours for
12/6 EACH
Freight & Pack, 3/-
ARMY PACKS
$B2
k
EX-Akivi Y RELEASE
Large size, webbing, complete with
all straiis. A very necessary acces-
sory to your biking or camp- Q/fJ
mg gear. (>nly, each °/
Postage 1/6 extra.
;Jh
Genuine Prismatic
BINOCULARS
Ex-Air Force, Navy and Military
Every pair of glasses in guaranteed good condition.
Made by World Famous Makers, including “ZEISS,”
“KERSHAW,” “WATSON” and “GOERXZ,” etc.
Just look at the value in these Bargain Prices.
• 6x24 £B/10/-, £9/10/- £ll/10/-
• Bx3o £l2/10/-, £l4/10/-, £l7/10/-
BVERY PAIR A EIFETIME JOB.
If you have any difficulty in choosing a pair, send
in your order for your requirements, etc.f and with
our long exjierience we will select a pair and
promptly despatch them to you by return mail,
REGISTERED POST FREE.
ẁ
ALADDIN
LAMPS
Combination
table and
Hanging
LAMP, as
used by the
Army. Needs
no pressure,
needs no
pumping.
Very safe and
efficient to
use. Gives a
very white,
bright light.
Lamp is com-
plete with
Mantle and
IJnbreakab 1 e
Chimney.
ONLY
£3/19/6
EACH.
Please add
2/6 Freight
and Packing.
Towels! Towels!
MAKE OUR SPECIAL OEEBK
YOUR LUCKY BUY!
These towels are the NEWEST
HONEYCOMB WEAVE. Out-
standing Quality, absorbent and
lasting wear. We have a large
assortment of colored ones, in-
cluding white with colored
l.< rders. Size, approx. 43in. x
‘i i. There is value in these
prices.
Mail Early, Stocks Limited.
Add 6d. per Towel Postage.
Slightly faulty.
Each ■
Perfect condition.
Bach
SENSATIONAL
PAINT OFFER
Take advantage of
this outstanding OIL,
PAINT SPECIAL in
the following colors:
$ WHITE
$ CREAM
$ LT. & MID STONE
$ LT. CHOCOLATE
$ MID GREEN
$ FRENCH GREY
$ ROOFING RED
In 4-gal. Drums only.
While it lasts,
Per Drum
Please add 1/6 per
Drum Cartage to Rail.
DON-R Cycling Trousers
BX-ABMY
BRAND
NEW
We have
limited stocks
of these
trousers in
the best-
known
brands.
Guarant e e d
waterjir oof,
strongly
made, williast
for years.
Sizes S, 6, 7.
Worth almost
twice this
price.
°“ ly '. 25/-
a pair '
Postage 1/- a
pair extra.
ẃ
BRAND NEW ARMY
BERETS!
Khaki and Jungle Green.
Adjustable to any size.
Each
We Pay Postage.
1/6
m
:&>s<**
■
MOSQUITO
NETS
(As Illustrated)
Brand New
Jungle green nets, an
extra special buy. Very
limited supply avail-
able. Order "1 A/ Ct
early. Only .. v
Also in white 19/6
Please add 3/- Postage and Packing.
ẅ
GENUINE LEATHER POLICE
AND FIREMAN’S STYLE
EX-ARMY
BRACES
WITH
ELASTIC
INLET
Originally made for
the Army. Very
strong and hard-
wearing.
M
PAIR
ONLY
1/3
Mailed to you FREE of Postage.
EXCLUSIVE OFFER!
Ladies’ Gloves
Ex-A.W.A.S. genuine leather
nappa gloves. Sizes 6to 7. Smart,
in an attractive nigger-brown
shade. Avoid disappointment—
buy a pair while stocks Q/C
hold. Now, only per pair °/
We pay Postage.
w
EX-ARMY
SOU’-WESTERS
Guard against the rain with one
of these. Complete head
protection. To clear, each
Postage Qd. extra.
1/6
Another
Wet
Weather
Special
EX-ABMY
OILSKIN
OVER-
COATS
\
IT’S PAINTING TIME.
EX-R.A.N.
We were fortunate in
purchasing: another |
stock of this Ex- |
K.A.N. Paint. Two |
very useful colors.
$ KHAKI GREEN
$ DARK EARTH
Limited supply for the |
Amazing price of
PAINT! PAINT!
By Jenson & Nicholson. |
ŵ
Stirrup Pumps
ẁ
GENUINE
AMERICAN
For all kinds of
spraying, has no
en d of uses.
Fitted with 15ft.
of hose and
spray nozzle.
WHILE THEY
EAST, ONEY
5/6
Complete.
Freight, N.S.W.
2/6, Interstate
3/6. Please state
nearest station.
ẃ
Genuine waterproof coats, Ex-
Army camouflaged type. Will
keep you warm and dry.
Don’t miss this outstanding
opportunity. Amazingly Q/g
priced. Only, each /
Postage 1/6 extra.
v&v
*.v
v->
r»
WHITE
WET!
WHITE
NET!
BRAND NEW. Super quality,
Jin. nie6h, 6ft. width. Can be
dyed any color. Makes beautiful
curtains, bedspreads, etc. No end
of uses.’ Ex-Navy, so must be
good. Outstanding value A Jo.
at only, per yard °
Add 9d. per yard Postage.
MATHEMATICAL
CALCULATOR
Precision built, measures air
speeds, wind drifts, etc. Used
as a circular protractor.
Ideal for students, engineers,
etc. Complete in a dove-
tailed case. Buy now g
for only
We Pay Postage.
GAITERS
American
Brand New
An Ideal trouser-
protector in wet
weather. Suit man
on the land. Extra
special.
Price only
3/11
Post Free.
NOTE:
Every care and attention given_to_conntry_clieirts_with_ourjprqmpt mail-order service. With orders, please enclose Postal Notes, Money Orders or^k e( l ues ‘ . “T!
