

EXTRA DRY
A PRODUCT OF THE
ĵ
HOUSE OF SEPPELT
The Bulltin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 70—No. 3615
Wednesday, May 25, 1949
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
(Photo courtesy Irish Tourist Association, Inc.)
MILITARY KILKENNY IS ONE OF IRELAND’S NOTED CASTLES
OWING to the fine limestone of which it is built, Kilkenny is often
referred to as the “Marble City.” It stands on the River Nore, and,
as it was the ancient capital of the Kings of Ossory, it is one of the oldest
and most interesting cities of Ireland, and the chief town of its county.
As early as 1172 a fortress was established here by Strongbow, and the
episcopal see of Ossory was transferred here in 1202; in the fourteenth
century Kilkenny was the seat of government and at the height of
its fafne.
The Parliament of 1366-67 passed the notorious Statute of Kilkenny,
which aimed against the descendants of the Anglo-Norman settlers, making
it a treasonable offence for them to marry any man or woman of the
Irish race.
The lordship of Kilkenny was purchased from Strongbow’s descendants
by James Butler, third earl of Ormonde. In 1642-48 Kilkenny was the
headquarters of the Confederates. Cromwell, in 1650, succeeded in storming
the city, and the garrison, under Sir Walter Butler, marched out with full
military honors.
Standing on a prominent position on the west bank of the More is
Kilkenny Castle, seat of the Marguess of Ormonde, the head of the Butler
family. The castle, which dates from 1192, was built by the Earl of Pembroke,
son-in-law of Strongbow, whose earlier fortress stood on the same site. It
was purchased, in 1400, by James, third Earl of Ormonde. The Butlers
played a prominent part in Irish history and waged a bitter feud with the
Fitzgeralds of Kildare.
Kilkenny Castle, with its towers and restored battlements, still maintains
its military character. Within is the magnificent dining-room, in which is
kept the remarkable collection of plate, including ancient ivory and gold
drinking cups presented by British sovereigns, while the picture gallery
contains many famous portraits, including “The Marriage of St. Catherine”
by Correggio and “St. John” by Murillo.


j
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 249
AGE
ft
$
a
novel ATcT mddem bride who
wanted her marriage to be a reality and a
dream.
liox ms. GJ’.O., Sydney.
O&aHoeb
by Anne Wormser
AT ALL BOOKSELLERS
SHAKESPEARE HBAV PRESS
The Red Page
FROM CEZANNE TO DALI.
With the publication of The March of
the Moderns (Cape ; Angus and Robert-
son), William Gaunt completes his survey
of the origins and development of con-
temporary art begun in The Pre-Raphael-
ite Tragedy and continued in The Aesthetic
Adventure. As a guide-book to lead the
reader through the maze of modern art,
in which Paris has set, as in hats, a new
fashion almost every season, it is invalu-
able.
Gaunt begins where he left off The
Aesthetic Adventure, with Cdzanne, Gau-
guin and Van Gogh— mentioning, inci-
dentally, that a brother of Van Gogh’s
went to Australia and that Van Gogh be-
lieved that “the future of painting would
not be found in ‘decrepit Europe’ but in
Java, Martinique, Brazil or Australia” —
but his story really opens with the famous
incident when Vlaminck found a negro
statuette in a cafd-bar at Bougival and,
after showing it to Derain, who an-
nounced that it was “just as beautiful” as
the Venus de Milo, took it to Picasso,
who “briefly but decisively stated, ‘lt is
more beautiful!”’... a statement about
as difficult to debate as an assertion that
a boot-brush is more beautiful than the
Ninth Symphony.
One proceeds from Primitivism to
Cubism:
In 1907 Picasso painted that strange
picture called Les Demoiselles d’Avignon. To
look at it was to see a destructive process
at work.. You could not say it was a copy
of what the African native did. You might
say it was an attempt to get into the same
state of mind. It was a picture made up
from the mind and not from observing out-
ward nature. The human body was cut
up into a thousand facets.. . .And now —
if one went further?... .Between 1908 and
1911 both [Picasso and Braque] arrived at
the final stage of the experiment. The
geometrical elements of the figure or land-
scape were severed from it, took on an
independent life. A fragment of nature
remained on the canvas like a dead husk
... .The painters had anticipated the scien-
tists and, in their art, symbolically split
the atom.
Quickly, chaos was codified, good reasons
were found for the metaphysical flight. To
provide them was the congenial duty of
Guillaume Appollinaire Novelty was a
sensation in itself, a pleasure of life, to be
cultivated for its own sake. He did not
apologise for Cubism because it had broken
with the past. That, on the contrary, was
its achievement. He was prepared to watch
the death-throes of the art of painting with
complacency rather than deny himself a
thrill hitherto unknown... .“It will be pure
painting, just as music is pure writing.”
The movements, of course, since they
are crammed into a period of forty years,
mingle and overlap. Cubism derived
partly from the Primitive urge to hack
things to pieces, partly from Cdzanne’s
more essentially artistic interest in the
geometrical forms that are the under-
lying structure of nature. And with the
discovery of the savage and the abstract
there came also the discovery of the sim-
pletion—the art of the child and the
lunatic —which brings the story to Alfred
Jarry, the playwright who drank absinthe
to excess, despised women, shot at night-
ingales and pedestrians with his revolver,
and admired the paintings of Henri
Rousseau:
Rousseau transformed reality. He did so,
not, like the Cubists, by turning it into
geometry, but by his inability to see it
except through the eye of the mind and the
mind of an elderly child. His pictures made
you laugh. The funny family party with
the horse and trap, the absurd dog beside
it. The portrait of a grotesque child hold-
ing a flower and a marionette. And yet
they existed intensely. Rousseau’s mind,
visionary and matter of fact, made them
do so It is just possible that he [Jarry]
saw, in the former employee of the octroi
and his pictures, a huge joke. The history
of art was full of noble figures, and now
came a ludicrous figure to succeed them.
Turning to consider parallel movements
in literature, as he does from time to time,
Gaunt compares the child-art of Rous-
seau with the child-prose of Gertrude
Stein. Then comes the Italian movement
of Futurism, led by the poet Filippo Tom-
maso Marinetti, who proclaimed that a
racing motor-car was “more beautiful”
than the Victory of Samothrace; and
who, glorifying the machine-age and
war (“The present war [the Kaiser’s] is
the finest futuristic poem which has yet
appeared”) became a Fascist leader under
Mussolini. Marinetti wrote poetry like
this—
Tzang — twnh—tuumb
Taratata ta —pic-pac—pum—tumb
Pluff-pluff flic-flac tzing tzing crooc-
craac—
Boom
Tzang—sittttt
T umb — tzang — tumb —tuuumb
—a poem which was doubtless considered
“more beautiful” than the “Ode to a
Nightingale.”
The German contribution to the suc-
cession of movements appeared to take
the opposite course from the Italian, for
whereas Marinetti marched side by side
with Mussolini, the Blue Riders of
Munich, who founded the cult of Ex-
pressionism, were in revolt against the
religious-patriotic-romantic paintings of
the traditional German school. But, led
by the Russian Kandinsky, and including
in their company Franz Marc and Paul
Klee, they were hardly less destructive.
Kandinsky improved on Cubism: “He
did without geometry as well as sitters.
He aimed at self-expression alone.” Franz
Marc painted blue horses and red grass.
Paul Klee, chiefly influenced by the paint-
ings of children, aspired to paint “as
though new-born”: an aim in which he
may be held to have succeeded. It was
a feeble movement. “It plunged,” says
Gaunt, “deeply but vaguely. It drifted
into the grotesque. It lacked the geo-
metrical foundations of Cubism, the em-
phatically defined purpose of Futurism.”
It was not until the Dadaists were in full
swing that German modernism really be-
came sensational: —
The 1920 Dadaist exhibition at Cologne
went so much further in eccentricity than
the displays in Zurich that it was closed
by the police. Having entered the exhibition
through a public lavatory, you found your-
self in a gallery where a young girl in white
communion dress stood reciting obscene
poems. In accordance with the Dadaist
plan that audiences should be incited to
behave violently, hatchets were hung around
for the use of visitors who wished to attack
the works of non-art on the walls.
The Dadaist movement, a natural de-
velopment from Primitivism, Cubism and
Futurism, seems to date from 1914 when
Duchamp, a "Cubist of the 1910 outburst
in Paris, was in New York, declaring
himself to be an “anti-artist”:
It was in 1914 that he stopped outside a
dress-shop and pointed with delight to an
elegant waxen hand, broken off at the wrist
and supported by a pedestal. It had a
sinister beauty or at least the eye of the
beholder created such a beauty by seeing it
there. What more could one want? No
more effort was needed than the acute
discrimination which enabled the observer
to point out what chance had provided. It
was “ready-made.” One of Duchamp’s
“ready-mades” was a lavatory basin which
he sent to a New York exhibition signed
“R. Mutt.” He gave up painting “for
chess.” .
Picabia, another 1910 Cubist, who was
with Duchamp in America, returned to
Europe, joined the Zurich group and
introduced “anti-art”:
The anti-artist regained a very special
person. It was his genius to abolish genius.
It was a logical extension of the Futurist .
creed. The Futurists had wished to burn
down libraries and museums, abolish con-
certs, supplant music by noise The
Dadaists, reciting their poems, either deli-
vered them in some peculiar fashion or did
not recite them at all. Hulsenbeck howled
his, louder and louder, while a big drum
thumped in corresponding crescendo. An-
other Dadaist, refraining, expressively, from
recitation, aped Duchamp by simply laying
1 a bouquet of flowers at v the feet of a shop-
' window figure.
The Napoleonic wars, a hundred years
before, had caused a phase of disillusion,
bitterness, anger with society, many suicides.
In Zurich, 1916, there was a new form of
suicide, a mental annihilation —or an
attempted one. Reason had failed, so
unreason was better. Chance was the only
standard. Poets, blindfold, picked words at
random from books, regarded with the
pride of personal accomplishment the gib-
berish which resulted. Painters flung into
" the air a of colored paper, stuck
down the pieces in the haphazard pattern
in which they fell, called it a composition.
It was in Zurich during those years.
Gaunt points out, that Japes Joyce
wrote Ulysses: “He seems like a colossus
among the screaming, shrieking Dadaists,
though he lived in the same atmosphere
and was subject to the same influences.”
After the Dadaists there is a brief ex-
cursion to Soviet Russia, in the first excited
days after the revolution, to contemplate
two more movements of the period.
Constructivism and Suprematism, as
these movements were called, pro-
claimed abstract art as the true revolu-
tionary expression and the resulting
paintings were entitled “Grey Form” or,
appropriately, “Accent in Pink.”
Supreme among the Suprematists,
Kasimir Malevich produced in 1918 a
composition consisting of a white square
painted on white canvas.
But in the Soviet, as in Hitler’s Ger-
many, extreme modernism was soon
frowned upon as “an offshoot of the
decaying middle-class society” and, under
State direction, was replaced by social
realism’: a step which, intended to cor-
rect the destructive tendencies of,the time,
had the paradoxical result of placing
German and Soviet art, however different
in style, in the spiritual company of
Italian Futurism as instruments of the
State.
In 1924 came the Surrealist manifesto.
Nothing on the earth is really new ; all
that is possible is the rediscovery of old
patterns of thought and behavior, with
a fresh emphasis. Surrealism, Gaunt
points out, had its origin in the writings
of the Marquis de Sade, whom Appol-
linaire hailed as “the freest spirit that
ever existed.”
Another of its prophets was Isidore
Ducasse, who died in Paris in 1870 and
who, in a phrase that might have been
used yesterday to describe a painting by
Dali or Picasso, spoke of things “beauti-
ful as the chance meeting of a sewing-
machine and an umbrella on a dissecting-
table.”
The sewing-machine and the umbrella
have been interpreted in Freudian terms,
with a sexual significance, but the im-
portant word is the “dissecting-table”:
for it is not so much with the exploration
of the subconscious mind —in which lies
Ariel as well as Caliban —that the sur-
realists have concerned themselves, but
with images of cruelty and horror:
whether in the novels of Kafka, powerful
and terrible as a nightmare, where men
are tortured with spikes of iron ; or in
the paintings of Giorgio di Chirico, whose
little girl in “Melancholy and Mystery
of a Street” bowls her hoop among
shadows threatening some monstrous
disaster; or in the Surrealist film which
Salvador Dali and Louis Bunuel showed
in Paris in 1929 and with an account of
which Gaunt concludes his survey:
It showed a young man shaving who
turned the razor on a girl sitting near him
and cut out her eye.
A history so informative and So com-
prehensive as The March of the Moderns
deserves nothing but praise ; yet it is an
uneasy book, far less satisfying than its
predecessors in the trilogy. Even in style
it is inferior, frequently descending into
the clipped jargon of contemporary
journalese; and Gaunt’s attempts at
detachment too often read like evasion.
He says of Picasso, “Here was an im-
portant difference, it might be thought,
the difference between painting and
something else altogether,” but he does
not say precisely what he himself thinks
of Picasso ; and instead of giving his own
opinion on Dali he contents himself with
“whatever value may ultimately be
assigned to his art.”
These are the faults of uncertainty and
hesitancy; one suspects that Gaunt ap-
proached his task with distaste, both
because of the difficulty of making judg-
ments about contemporary work—in a
mountain of rubbish there may be a grain
of gold—and because the chronicling of
decadence, when one is living in the
period of decadence, is a melancholy and
thankless undertaking.
Gaunt’s theme is to point out the
parallel or interwoven courses of destruc-
tion in the arts and destruction in revo-
lution and war.- Art, like the daily
newspapers, was “seeking to penetrate
the consciousness of millions of readers
with startling headlines, to disengage
from a mass of humdrum reports the
item most primitive in its appeal” ; and
both were moving towards a time in
which “horror and blood were the
omens.”
It is a pity that, for the sake of
balance, Gaunt did not include a
chapter on the artists and writers who
have not succumbed to savagery and
despair: more about Augustus John,
more about Orpen ; a Yeats and a Davies
to set against a Marinetti, a Conrad to
balance a Kafka.
Emoh Ruo.
I evil ni na Nailartsua nwot,
Reraen eht mottob naht eht pot ;
Syawla ot lev art yh eht smart
Ni rou nwot si lanoitidart ;
Uoy ees, ew levari rehtie yaw.
No ro kcab sa snortap tnaw;
Ew evol ot nrut sgniht kcab ot tnorf,
Dna ew yas * “ot” nehw ew naem
“morf” —
S'-faht yhw I evil ni Emoh Ruo
Dna nehw uoy llac / epoh m’l tuo.
N.Z.
ARNOLD WALL.
Prints of Wales.
It is not often that you see so accurate
and remindful a picture of illicit love as
“The Green Island,” first and longest
story in The Still Waters, by Gwyn
Jones (Peter Davies, London).
Merrill, .the Englishman, falls for
plump Mrs. Absalom, wife of the Welsh
wood-turner with whom the Merrills are
staying for a holiday. Mrs. Merrill has
to go back to town ; Dafydd Absalom
drives her away, and Merrill and Mrs.
Absalom go picnicking on Green Island,
two miles off-shore, where there happens
what happens; but when they are ready
to go home they find their boat adrift.
And for five days they are left there, Mr.
Absalom and his Welsh cronies having
decided to teach them a lesson, and when
they are rescued Mrs. Absalom is very
hungry and Mr. Merrill is half-dead with
pneumonia.
Eveiy turn of the story is beautifully
taken, from Merrill’s growing infatua-
tion to Mrs. Absalom’s acquiescence;
then the gradual vision they have of each
other, as maybe not such nice people as
they thought they were, grows into
mutual maledictions and a fight for a
rabbit to be eaten raw.
Everyone wants realism; everyone
wants the truth; but such is human
nature that, having been shown such a
real story, you think of Mozart and how
he made everything beautiful, and as you
go on to read similarly realistic stories
you begin to believe that art should have.
something to do with legend.
But, then, near the end of the book
Mr. Jones, who seems to have been read-
ing your thoughts, turns on two stories
in a different style: “Down in the Forest
Something Stirred,” a piece of Welsh
Rabelaisian humor which brings Becca
the poacher’s mistress, the rival parsons
Gellius Sant-Owen and Mamoel Pliny-
Evans, Jenkins the gamekeeper and John
Lot Padog the poacher under the big
apple-tree in the wood of Supra Maelor
at night and for no good purpose; and
“GOronwy’s House of Gold,” a Welsh
fairytale about a good schoolmaster;
lovely trifles, both of them—-so there
goes Mr. Gwyn Jones, escaping the re-
viewer’s teeth.
Virtuous Money .
Arthur Calder-Marshall’s novel A Man
Reprieved (Cape) is a book of resolutions,
not all good.
Thus when a wife goes out and gets the
baby her husband can’t give her, and it
slowly dawns upon the husband that this
is all for the best, seeing it had better be—
that is a problem well resolved. And
when two mothers find in the pleasure of
living together a relief from the desertion
of a live husband and the mourning of a
dead one —that is a good resolution.
But when a husband comes back from
the Archangel expedition to a wife he no
longer finds beautiful, and wants to marry
the beautiful widow of a V.C., then the
making of the wife vicious, so that he
will have good reasons for leaving, and
rich, so that he will not have to provide
for her or her children, is not a good
resolution.
Although it must be admitted that from
Shakspeare to Congreve, Fielding and
Dickens to Wodehouse, British literature
has been full of heroes and heroines im-
patiently awaiting the deaths of rich rela-
tions, and characters in search, not of an
author, but of a fortune. When a British
author wants to reward long-suffering
virtue, he contrives the death of a rich
aunt, or a forgotten Australian uncle.
And when he wants to free his hero of
moral responsibility, he makes the party
whom this will injure rich, leaving it to
his readers to conclude that she must be
pretty dreadful, or why would he walk
out on all that money?
It is not that such things are unlikely in
England, even after three or four years
of Mr. Attlee, but in this book it rings
false, as though Ethel M. Dell had been
allowed to write a few chapters of a book
by Ernest Hemingway. Which is a pity,
because most of it, including scenes of a
big newspaper in process of changing
hands and opinions, is first-class.


Photo.
Analine Hide Cases with rounded corners
slide Jastetiers, centre lock, cloth lined
with inside pocket, rubber-lined cosmetic
pocket.
22in.. £l2; 24in., £l2/11/3; 26in.. £l3/2/6.
TRUTH* IN ADVERTISING”
mm HORDERNS
r? a tni
ll wjj-\\ 1! !. ! 3 •./ v Vv y
it
!
///
/ /•
" &
I
«<< 1
Hr 'V
sasa^i:
A
(i \
L. ’ .
J
■
\N
/£
isr
$
; r„
''/A- jx
>■■.•• •..
■
V > 1
4#)
If
hf
W^A.'
Vi
'A\
f*s ' J 2 * y
I A /
\
A- ■ ••
' ■
■vv-
/
V \
( S -
I
J
I
mi »<
LA
v-v
nu
...'X
l’
■■'■V
i
il t
\
n -
*dW
:
'■L ,
/
if/ I
.. ,7'
H
|A
x./
■ i
VVJS
V
■
A
...4 fts&rjassr^*
\
I
/
Travel in comfort with
duality Travel Rugs
You can defy thd chilled discomfort of winter travelling
with a rug that’s gay, snug and practical
2/
1
i
: ■
"I
56/6
«saw^
3!
m
mi
38/9
m
*
s
Fringed 9 checked, woollen
In cheviot and tartan checks, fringed
ends. Size 72in. x 60in. Price, 62/3.
Hand-woven, pure wool in checks,
fringed ends. Grey, Maroon, Green,
Blue. Size 80in. x 60in. Price, 69/-.
Also in tartan checks, fringed ends.
Size . 80in. x 60in. Priced at 74/3.
Below.
A popular service weight Rug in a
wide range of check designs in Fawn,
Brown, Blue or Green. Fringed ends.
Size 68in. x 64in. Priced at 56/6.
Pure Wool Rug in
Royal and /Dress Stewart, Mac-
Leod, Budhanan, McQueen,
Fraser tartan|s. Medium weight,
fringed ends.! 72in. x 60in. 98/9.
Medium weight Travel Rug in
self colour of serviceable Fawn.
With soft, brushed finish and
fringed ends. Size 68in. x 64in.
Price 52/3
Pure Wool Rugs in gay check
designs. Serviceable medium
weight with soft finish. In Fawn,
Green and 'Dark Blue. Size 72in.
x 60in. Price 38/9
RDERNS’ TRAVEL GOODS—GROUND FLOOR, PITT ST. ’PHONE j M 2401; BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.,
SYDNEY


The Bulletin
Vol. 70—No. 3615
Wednesday, May 25, 1949
WOMEN AND CHILDREN FIRST.
“With your ‘cold’ war you’re a disgrace to the profession, Joe. I’VE always tried to spare the women and kids.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior P. H. Prior
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone, 8U5971.
.Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opposite
G.P.0.), Wellington.
THE "RIGHT" TO STRIKE.
Extract from a speech before Perth
Legacy Club by Mr. President Dunphy
of the Westralian State Arbitration Court
on the eve of his departure to take up
his appointment as a Justice of the
Federal Arbitration Bench:
The right to strike has gone; it died
when a system of law was introduced which
gave those people who had the right to
strike a complete and absolute remedy....
Today the effects of a strike are far-
reaching, embracing innocent persons in the
community, and the greater the effect the
greater the wrong done by the strikers.
There is no “right” to strike. The
phrase is a misuse of language. The
“right” any union possesses is to call the
party against which it has a grievance to
judgment before the Arbitration Court
or auxiliary tribunals. But “right” to
strike it has none. The Oxford Dic-
tionary defines a right as “a justifiable
claim on legal or moral grounds to have
or obtain something or to act in a cer-
tain way... .enjoyment of privileges or
immunities.” The important word there
is “justifiable.”
For the head of a powerful union,
conscious of its ability by organised
stoppage of work among its members to
throw all industry idle, to talk of a “right
to strike” is as though he should hold
that, because when Sydney was an in-
fant settlement a bullock-wagon assumed
a “right” to choose its track anywhere
within the width of George-street, a five-
ton motor-truck has the same right to-
day. The* essence of Mr. Justice
Dunphy’s restatement of the truth is that
modernly not only is there no “right” to
strike anyway, but also that in the matter
of “right’s” the overriding claim is that
of a complex society to the orderly reign
of industrial law.
The atmosphere in which the Federal
court met for the hearing of evidence in
the basic-wage case is one in which the
Bench might contrive to find opportunity
for a declaration on this all-important
matter. To the layman a natural amplifi-
cation of Mr. Justice Dunphy’s dictum
in Perth would take these lines:
Along with the “right” to strike, power-
ful unions maintain an even more intoler-
able “right” to declare trades and goods
“black.” There can be no possible “right”
in any body of men refusing work to pre-
vent by organised violence any other body
of men from taking up that work.
The power of the modern unions and the
vicious way in which some of them have
used that power have created as a first-
class issue the demand, from within the
unions and from the public at large, for
investigation of the constitutions, and the
administrative practices by the executives,
of the worst offenders. Despite union pro-
tests, this is no more “a matter concerning
none but the unions themselves” than is
“the right to strike.”
No union should be allowed at once to
enjoy the advantages of the arbitration
system and to defy that system with im-
punity. It cannot have both the benefits of
arbitration and the “right to strike.” A
parallel enormity would be a claim by
employers to arbitration as well as the right
to lock out, while demanding that every
striker should be punished by law.
Notoriously there is a weakness on the
point in the Commonwealth Conciliation
and Arbitration Act, much scarred by
amendments, especially since a “Labor”
Government in 1930 cut out the sections
making strikes and lockouts punishable
offences. But the Act still makes punish-
able a strike for higher wages than the
court has awarded, if provision against
such direct action is inserted in the award.
Only the slackness of employers as
parties can have allowed the unions im-
munity from penalty for notorious in-
roads upon the law and awards alike, and
a sustained challenge of the practice of
declaring trades and goods “black” ought
to have settled that issue long ago.
In 1935 the Seamen’s Union appealed to
the High Court against shipowners’ action
on breach of an award. A log of claims
served on the union by the Commonwealth
Steamship Owners’ Association contained a
claim that the union and its members
should abandon job-control. When the
union would not agree, the shipowners
sought and procured from the Arbitration
Court an award restraining the union from
job-control practices aimed at enforcing any
demand in any matter provided in the
award, and when a breach of this provision
was proved, penalties provided were applied
for and imposed by a Queensland magis-
trate. The High Court held by majority
(Evatt and McTiernan, JJ., dissenting) that
the repeal by the Act of 1930 of provisions
imposing penalties and otherwise relating
to strikes and lockouts did not prevent the
court from including in an award provision
of penalties relating to such matters.
In 1940 the N.S.W. Commissioner of
Railways applied to the Arbitration Court
for deregistration of the A.R.U., and
evidence established that strikes against an
award of the court, if not actually fomented
by officers of the union, Were encouraged
by paid officials and executives of branches,
and that members of the union were en-
couraged by its official organ to believe
that they had the right, when they were
dissatisfied with an award of the court, to
strike, and at the same time maintain their
right to approach to the court. The court
held that a case had been made out for
, deregistration, but it had no power to
deregister merely a branch of the union, and
that the vast majority of union members
desired to work under arbitration.
How necessary is the clearing-up of
long-standing uncertainties, real or pre-
tended, is shown by the answer of Secre-
tary Monk of the A.C.T.U., the senior
spokesman for trade-unionism in the
Commonwealth, to Mr. Justice Dunphy’s
remarks in Perth on the fictitious “right”
to strike. Mr. Monk brought himself
perilously near to that situation in which
other union officials have lately been
castigated by the court. He said: —•
The right to strike is the only weapon the
workers have to protect their standard of
living. This weapon will not be sacrificed
by the workers. The right to strike is
inherent in the trade-union movement
Mr. Dunphy will have to make him-
self familiar with the fundamental pro-
vision of the Arbitration Act that it is the
duty of judges and conciliation commis-
sioners to settle industrial disputes, not to
create them.
Not one word of that outburst is true,
except the description of the “right to
strike” as a “weapon.” The community
appreciates that fact only too well.
Mr. Justice Dunphy’s outlook was illus-
trated in his final case as president of
the Westralian court. Therein he de-
scribed the W.A. Council of Trade
Unions (Communist-controlled) as “a
union-splitting organisation with a poli-
tical rather than an industrial approach
to the [State] basic-wage inquiry.”
He was faced with the demand
by a Communist named Troy, secre-
tary of the W.A. Docks, Rivers and
Harbor Works Union, to appear as union
advocate in the local basic-wage claim,
and refused to recognise this individual
as such. Specifically, he declared,
elaborating some details;
Troy was not qualified to act as advocate.
The body he sought to represent was un-
registered, and three of the seven unions it
comprised “had no interest in the inquiry
whatsoever.”
Of the remaining four unions, (1) the
Seamen’s Union [its secretary, R. Hurd,
a confessed Communist] “has not complied
with its registered rules and its warrant is an
absolute invalidity”; (2) the Hotel, Club and
Restaurant Employees’ Union “has not
complied with fundamental rules, its
warrant does not represent a true decision
of the members of the union, and its
minute-book is suspect”; (3) the State
executive of the Amalgamated Engineering
Union, “contrary to Troy’s statement, is
not affiliated with the C.T.U. and had not
prior to these proceedings made a valid
decision in favor of Troy.”
In the eastern States this story could,
of course, be magnified a hundredfold.
This is the atmosphere made foul by
Communist sabotage of the unions, in
which strikes have been engineered for
political purposes, and especially in an-
tagonism to the arbitration system, and
for which the “right to strike” is kept
sharp as a “weapon” (Mr. Monk’s word).
From the Federal Arbitration Bench,
of which Mr. Justice Dunphy is
now a member, Mr. Justice Kelly
opened the investigation last week
into the claim for an Australia-
wide basic wage of £lO a week by re-
quiring the A.C.T.U. to obtain from all
unions concerned formal assurances of
their confidence in arbitration as the
proper means of settling disputes. He
said:
In proceeding [i.e., during the interim
pending the furnishing of these assurances]
with the general case we do not bind our-
selves to continue any longer than is neces-
sary for the organisations and applicants
to put their own houses in order.#.We
do not want a mere formal expression of
intention or policy. The statement should
not be made until the matter has been
brought to the notice of the unions them-
selves We want to know that the
A.C.T.U. stands by arbitration and regards
striking organisations as rebellious. Further,
we want to know if the A.C.T.U. can make
rebellious organisations liable to disci-
plinary action
We want to know that the organisations
Federally registered are going to submit
their issues without any form of direct
action designed to influence the decisions
of this court. We propose, in the mean-
time, to proceed with the case, but that
will be without prejudice to any action on
our part if the matter is not clarified or
not satisfactory.
And the onus falls on Mr. Monk, lately
flourishing his “right-to-strike weapon”
in Mr. Justice Dunphy’s face, to obtain
and endorse the required assurances.
The whole body of the suffering public
ought to demand that the Government
shall back the court’s stand up to the
hilt, not only in some Minister’s form of
words, but by an amendment of the Arbi-
tration Act such as to provide that de-
registration of a union for defiance of
the court (or auxiliary tribunals) shall
entail impounding of its funds by a
receiver and the freedom of union mem-
bers, during deregistration of that union,
from liability to pay union levies.
Then, in the business of dealing with
the mess the wreckers have made, we
might get somewhere.
Another Political Stunt.
Most of the Canberra “Labor” Govern-
ment’s present “plans” for “develop-
ment” and “defence” are based on mis-
representation, born either of plain
ignorance and lack of appreciation of
realities, or of deliberate deception about
measures which are never likely to be
carried out, or which are to be carried
out for purposes about which the authors
of them have not been frank.
Within the past 12 months, for in-
stance, we have had a Supply and De-
velopment Act passed which, in effect,
is a new Socialist constitution. That ex-
traordinary “defence” plan under the Act
for the Snowy River scheme —produced
by a Prime Minister who has just said that
he would be willing to fight anybody at
the polls against compulsory training for
military service, a vital necessity for de-
fence in a large continent with a very
small population—has recently been
matched by Mr. Chifley’s meat scheme,
on the basis of which he has signed a 15-
year agreement to supply the British
Government with beef at an inflated
price. Since £50,000,000 is allegedly to
be spent in furthering this plan, it is to
be presumed that it also will smell of
Supply and Development “defence”
methods before it is through.
The scheme is ostensibly designed to
add to our own population and feed
hungry Britain by developing the cattle
industry in North Australia to a point at
which it will be possible to supply another
400,000 or 500,000 tons of beef a year
to the overseas market. And this is to
be done by the building of roads and
other facilities and the improvements of
large areas of the outback, particularly
the Northern Territory, Beyond that
point the details are vague.
Canberra seems to have based its
cattle-raising stunt on reports it has re-
ceived about the prevailing fecundity of
rabbits in Australia. There are no data
about where the breeding-cattle are to
come from, or the labor or the materials
—which can scarcely be provided without
depriving the starved industries of the
coastal areas. In truth, neither the breed-
ing-cattle nor the labor exists. Even in
the present condition of affairs when all
Territory cattlemen operate tax-free, with
roads and water-supply provided and kept
in order by the Government, and with
the cattle-market booming, there has been
no appreciable development of the Terri-
tory. »
The roads which have been put down
at an expense of millions of pounds have
done nothing worth while in increasing
meat output. And even if cattle were
available to start the new scheme off, and
it were payable to breed, fatten and trans-
port to market at the present prices of
labor and materials, it would take she
years before a*single calf could be added
to normal increases under Territory con-
ditions.
As for Western Queensland, the myth
that it can be turned into a paradise by
building a road or railway through it was
long ago exploded. Capital has been
poured into it. Water has been provided
on its stations, but its occupiers have
learned that they are subject to the
vagaries of changing political philoso-
phies, and that there is a limit beyond
which it becomes no longer economic to
add either to the improvement or the
stocking of the land.
In the Territory labor is so short that
even aboriginals are pampered almost as
much as an Australian wharfie, and im-
provements are so limited that a stud bull
is a phenomenon and fences are few and
far between.
It is not, of course, impossible to de-
velop an Australian cattle industry *on a
scale which will compete with the rest of
the world and make possible the develop-
ment of closer-settlement as a means to
the intensive growth of population. The
job can be done more economically in
the coastal areas of the North and West,
and close to the grain-belts, where fenc-
ing, transport and other costs are not
so expensive as the miles are expansive,
and where agriculture would cry out for
a market if costs, and particularly taxa-
tion, were not so burdensome.
The other day, writing in the London
“Daily Telegraph,” Mr. Anthony Eden
pointed out that New Zealand —of which
the total area, including all waste and
mountain country, is 103,000 square
miles, or about a quarter more than Vic-
toria —provides half the meat and half
the dairy products eaten by the British
people at the present time.
And the potentialities of New Zealand
are far from exhausted.
England and Wales hold 40,000,000-odd
people. Japan, which is poorly served
for agricultural land beside New Zealand,
and is poorer still in grasses and fodder,
manages somehow to provide the staple
to feed 80,000,000 people on a not-so-low
standard. Last year the Japanese pro-
duced nearly 10,000,000 tons of rice, with
3.000. tons of other grains, apart from
crops of potatoes which made Australia’s
look tiny, and other agricultural produce.
The fact is that in Australia, from the
Cooktown district in North Queensland
to Spencer’s Gulf, easily accessible to the
coast, there are half-a-dozen “Japans”
waiting for intensive development, and at
least one more in Western Australia. These
are natural areas for early, intensified
settlement, and economic history has
shown in every continent that popula-
tion cannot be forced into wide,
waterless spaces. In India, with its
400.000. people on an area half
the size of Australia, there are
sparsely-populated districts as wide-open
as our own, while the steppes of the
Oxus country in Russia, so much like
some of our Territory land, though
better-watered, has no more population
for miles on end than could be counted
on the fingers of a hand,
Britain herself has two-thirds the total
number of Australia’s cattle in her limited
areas. Denmark makes our butter and
ham output look small. But they
are countries in which, even under
Socialism, it is not taught that the main
objective in life is leisure, that work is
synonymous with tyranny, and that the
one object of a Government is to com-
bine with the class now debatably de-
scribed as the “workers” in thwarting
the employer of labor in every way and
destroying all incentive to progress, thrift
and development, assisted by the weight
of taxation and the strangling processes
of bureaucratic regulation.
The present Australian socialistic sys-
tem is breeding recession rather than de-
velopment in country areas. The numbers
of sheep, cattle and pigs have shown a
steady decline since the Chifley Govern-
ment took office, and that they appear still
to be declining. There were, last year,
about 30,000,000 fewer sheep, 600,000
fewer cattle and 250,000 fewer pigs in the
continent than in 1943, the first three
years of the war showing substantial in-
creases. And whatever Mr. Chifley spends,
and whatever wide-open spaces he seeks
to develop, the recession will continue
while the policy of the Government skins
industry of labor in order to build up
more and bigger Government depart-
ments and play around with more and
more politically-based “industrial” or
“defence” stunts.
Our Non-fighting Irish.
Dear Bulletin, —
To an old Australian with Irish blood
in his veins, and proud of it, it is
intriguing to note the prevalence of Irish
names among leaders of the Communist
conspiracy. Sharkey, Healy, Flanagan,
Moran, O’Shea, Roach —“What, will the
line stretch out to the crack of doom?”
There are three of these Healys—one
in Sydney, another in Perth and the third
in Brisbane. Circumstances obliged the
Brisbane “Healy” to admit that he had
changed his name from McCracken.
A dear and honored lady who
studies the tortuosities of Commun-
ist politics has suggested to me that this
is no isolated case; that taking of Irish
names is an accepted part of the Com-
munist campaign. And certainly it
carries an appeal to extreme Protestants,
represented by papers like the “Rock,”
which —on the evidence of a recent
issue—seems to prefer Marx to Mannix.
The Irish complexion of Communist
H.Q. has been paired by the Irish com-
plexion of “Labor” H.Q. “Labor” H.Q.
is—in Sydney and Canberra, at any
rate —of * predominantly Irish extraction.
At Canberra, not an Amurath an
Amurath succeeds, but Paddy Paddy;
Scullin by Curtin; Curtin by Chifley;
non-fighting Irish the whole boiling, with
non-fighting McGirr at their service in
Sydney. Hence the free rope given by
non-fighting Irish to the Communist
wreckers. These ruffians were all “Red
Fascists” to Mr, Calwell himself before
he became a Minister of the Crown;
thereupon he abandoned the term from
his vocabulary, being intent on denying
the right of asylum to poor creatures.
Catholics among them. A noble chapter
in Britain’s history is that nobody short of
criminals has ever been refused asylum.
In conclusion, let me quote one of my
favorite poets:
Where there are Irish there’s sure to be
fighting
And where there’s no fighting ’tis
Erin no more,
Erin no more!
The poet had, of course, in mind
Parnells, Dillons and Devlins —not Chif-
leys, Calwells and McGirrs. —Yours, etc.,
John, E. Webb.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Word in Circulation Again.
The long inquiry closes:
Evidence and addresses at the New Guinea
timber inquiry concluded after 52 days, E. J.
Ward reappeared in Parliament at Canberra.
The younger Garden asked the royal com-
missioner, Justice Ligertwood, to brand Ward
as “a blatant and cunning liar,” and to “find
that Ward did accept a bribe delivered by
J. S. Garden.” He allowed that “if you find
in this way my father is liable to another
charge,” but claimed for his parent a degree
of courage which he denied to Ward, who had
“twice turned tail in Parliament,” once when
he “hadn’t the guts to give evidence on the
Brisbane Line accusation”—his own.
Evidence had previously been given by E. R.
Crouch, formerly a director of and solicitor to
Hancock and Gore. Crouch described For-
shaw’s borrowing of £4OOO from Farrell as
“dishonest and traitorous,” but maintained that,
while he himself was concerned to protect
preference shareholders, it was no part of his
duty to communicate with the Crown.
Before Crouch entered the box, the royal
commissioner, interposing while A. D. McGill,
K. was putting the case for Hancock and
Gore, said, apropos of the alleged concession,
“Every question screaming out for inquiry was
asked by Crouch and, I presume, passed on
to Biggs”—Crouch’s successor as company
solicitor. “No inquiry was made. Why?”
Mr. McGill replied that “Hancock had faith
in Biggs and did not worry about Crouch’s
questions.”
Throughout the long proceedings his Honor’s
observations were an unfailingly interesting
feature. While E. S. Miller, K.C., was detailing
the wrongs of Ward and attacking Garden’s
counsel on his handling of them at the trial,
the Judge said, “It is enough for you if I tell
you these allegations have not been proved
and are without foundation: the only evidence
that the Minister received a bribe is from
Garden, and Garden has been thoroughly dis-
credited; every accomplice is” —this to Harcourt
Garden. But he said also: “This fraud should
have been discovered in 1945, when Parer and
Forshaw were ready to go to New Guinea;
it should have been discovered in 1946, when
New Guinea officials Cavanaugh and McAdam
heard about it; it should have been discovered
early in 1947, when McAdam and Halligan
[the External Territories secretary] were sent
to Garden.” Again: “I am concerned with
the facade created behind this fraud, Garden
being near Ward’s office, so that people could
say he was the Minister’s mouthpiece. I think
Mr. Ward will admit it was most unfortunate
that Garden —I doubt his patriotic motives in
view of what has occurred here —was put in
that position of liaison-officer.” “Yes, your
Honor,” Mr. Miller replied, “it has been a
bitter lesson to Mr. Ward.”
Touching the Sydney Pincombe Proprietary,
importers of typewriters, Mr. Ligertwood said
there was no evidence that Ward had any
interest in the concern or that Urquhart, his
friend and its managing director, had ever taken
a bribe, so these charges he could “only dis-
miss.” “Urquhart,” he pointed out, “obviously
anticipated that some allegations would be made
against him, because he kept all his race-books
to prove his betting transactions”; but “just
because a man goes to a racecourse does not
mean that a man would accept a bribe.”
Before closing the inquiry, save for the
preparation and delivery of his report, his Honor
intimated that he would “deal with every
allegation made against Mr. Ward,” and would
“consider carefully” the arguments that might
have been put on behalf of J. S. Garden by
turning up his counsel’s address to the jury
at the trial.
"Labor's" Deep Thinker.
To a question in Parliament inquiring
how much time he intends should elapse
before he decided what is to be done
about the Stevedoring Industry Com-
mission, Mr. Chifley said the -period
would not be long. The King’s S.I.C.
must, presumably, be carried on.
If the Prime Minister meant that he
intends to wait and see whether the elec-
tion for officers in the union—due to be
held in July—will result in the “moder-
ates” voting Healy and Roach off the
executive, he might have said so, and
thereby perhaps have assisted the cam-
paign of the Newcastle and Melbourne
bodies of the union. Newcastle at a
stopwork meeting repudiated the two
Communist officials by a vote of five to
two against their appeal for endorsement
of their behavior, and Melbourne mem-
bers were reported next day by the Vic-
torian secretary to be “95 per cent, be-
hind the Newcastle branch.”
The Newcastle meeting’s decision was
“to use every means at our disposal to
retain the 5.1. C.,” that Healy and Roach
should stand down from it (the Govern-
ment has dismissed them), and that a
plebiscite by secret ballot should be taken
of union members “to ascertain the
wishes of the majority” about the “dic-
tatorship set up within the Federation.”
This can only mean that the two
offending officials should vacate their
union posts and others should be tempo-
rarily appointed in their place. The
moderates apparently look to the pro-
posed plebiscite to prepare the way for
defeat of the Communists at their union’s
July elections. They also seem to think
that it is up to Mr. Chifley and “Fixer”
Ashley to provide a bit of help towards
this worthy purpose.
The Communists are not the only
faction in “the movement” preparing to
put the acid on the flabby politicals in
Canberra.
N. S. Wales Senate Team.
There were bound to be post-mortems
and controversy over the selection of
Liberal-party Senate candidates the
Country party had already chosen Colonel
Reid —but they are a better run than the
average, though the committee doesn’t
seem to have done full justice to the
material offered.
The selection committee, having sat all
day listening to the Parliamentary aspir-
ants —38 candidates—making eight-minute
speeches, took a vote which endorsed W.
H. Spooner, president of the State Liberal
party, J. A. McCallum, who retired from
the Federal executive of the Australian
Labor party some time after the 1933
convention in which he took part and
more recently has been an A.B.C. com-
mentator, and Alderman Robert Tate,
chairman of the Cumberland County
Council.
Professor Bland, a “natural” for the
Senate even if not for the Representatives,
was passed over, and so was Brigadier
John Windeyer, 49-year-old barrister who
was awarded the C.8.E., D.S.O. and Bar,
and who would have had a good chance
of election as Professor of Law if he had
not been away on active service when the
vacancy occurred. He was a member of
the British Commonwealth Relations
Conference, Toronto, 1933. He has
served in the armed forces from 1922
right up to the present day, and is
acknowledged as one of the best A.I.F.
TOO MUCH OF THE ONE THING.
“Dr. Evatt, while in New York, was reported to be suffering from exhaustion.”
“What you need is a change. Try to get away from yourself for a while.”
fighting officers which World War II
produced.
It is to be hoped that an active place
will be found for Windeyer somewhere in
the Liberal ranks.
Chifley's Coal Crisis.
Last Thursday the conference of Coal
Board, employers, mining unions and
Federal and State Governments —every-
body with an interest in the coalmining
industry except the Coal Tribunal and the
general public—met to debate the mining
unions’ log of claims which virtually re-
quires the mines to be handed over to
the Miners’ Federation. The conference
ran at once into a dead stop, from which,
apparently, only some climb-down by
the Communist leaders can rescue it.
Over all hangs the threat of a general
coal stoppage, with a . breakdown of in-
dustry throughout Australia.
The miners under Communist direction
were leading the attack for the other
mining unions with demands including:
A 35-hour week;
An increase of 30s. in the weekly wages
(these already run up to £lB a week in the
bigger mines);
Three months’ long-service leave after ,
seven years of service;
Nationalisation of the industry.
The Coal Tribunal (arbitration
authority in substitution for the Arbi-
tration Court) has for weeks been hearing
—intermittently, as sundry rows permitted
—evidence on the first two of these. It
has rejected the third claim on the
grounds that miners are already better
off in the matter of leave than other
sections in the community, that “the ser-
vice given is not of a character to support
the claim,” and that “no case had been
made out for departing from the practice
of not granting long-service leave except
by consent.”
The Prime Minister has already ex-
pressly refused to nationalise the mines
on the ground that it would be beyond
Federal powers, and has told the miners
so face-to-face.
That the miners should have forced
this conference under threat of a general
stoppage, and in face of the Coal Tri-
bunal’s current hearing of the claim for
new wages and conditions, is the active
.expression of their Communist boss’s
statement 10 days before the conference
met that:
This federation never has, and never will,
accept arbitration as the desirable method
of settling industrial disputes The de-
cisions of the arbitration courts are always
influenced directly or indirectly by indus-
trial strength and political pressure.
Accordingly it is now asserting industrial
strength and political pressure just as
Mr. Chifley and his party are preparing
to initiate their campaign for the general
elections. The Communist-run water-
siders have promised the miners “whole-
hearted” support.
The Joint Coal Board, which is the
Chifley and McGi'rr Governments’ own
mine-managing body, has already re-
ported to the Coal Tribunal that to grant
the long-service-leave demand would
cause a “catastrophic” fall in production,
would require 5560 additional employees
in the next two years, and would add
another eightpence to the cost of every
ton of coal.
Following the Chifley-Ashley addresses
to pithead meetings last September—in
which Mr, Chifley refused nationalisation
and said the miners must “stop their
petty, paltry, piffling hold-ups of coal
production,” and Ashley warned them
they “could defeat the ‘Labor’ Govern-
ment”—-coal-boss Williams announced
that “1949 must be a period for action.”
Before the Ministers addressed the
miners Williams had had two days’ con-
ference in Melbourne with Mr. Weather-
cock Clarey of the A.C.T.U.j and had
extracted a public statement from the
gentleman that the A.C.T.U. endorsed the
miners’ claims and would “call on all
unions to assist” in achieving it. The
Canberra politicals caned Clarey over
that, and he has since done nothing about
it. The Federal A.L.P. executive, after
meeting Chifley and Co. at the recent
talks in Canberra, in a gentle chiding
tone informed the miners that their
proper resort was the Coal Tribunal for
adjudication, and (in answer to a specific
request for A.L.P. support of the claims)
replied that the proper authority to con-
sult was the A.C.T.U.! Such are
“Labor’s” crawling election-year tactics.
Further background was Mr. Chifley’s
announcement at the end of last
year that the Government would
spend £16,000,000 in mechanising
N.S.W. collieries, of which orders worth
a quarter of that amount had, he said,
already been placed. The miners’ re-
sponse was to claim before the Coal Tri-
bunal official approval for a reduction
—already enforced —in the number of
daily skips filled in one of the best-
mechanised collieries (B.H.P.’s Burwood).
The shortening of the working week
o Continued on next page.)


6434 E-R
There Is
a real touch of
quality about these
CRAVEN*
CARRERAS LIMITED OYER 150 YEARS REPUTATION FOR QUALITY
m
m
m
would, of course, reduce the output still
further.
Thursday’s conference broke up when
the mineowners offered —
To recognise the principle of long-service
leave on condition that it be for long and
faithful service and did , not interfere with
production.
To discuss increased wages if they were
assured of increased output.
A three-year agreement, provided that the
mining unions (a) withdraw opposition to
mechanical extraction of pillar coal, (b)
honor the agreement to increase output
where power-borers are installed, (c) agree
to exempt from compulsory retirement
miners required and willing to continue
work, and (d) punish employees responsible
for unauthorised stoppages (also repeatedly
promised).
The Joint Coal Board chairman, pre-
siding, said this offer was very fair, but
Communist Williams rejected it as not
worth discussing. The Combined Mining
Unions’ Council later voted by six to five
against this Communist attitude, and re-
solved for taking up negotiations.
Williams and his brother-Communist
Parkinson, for the Federation, pressed
for rejecting the offer, and then went off
to call for Monday a Miners’ Central
Council meeting—the Communists con-
trol the majority. When this went to
press it looked as though the mining
unions were well split on the matter of
continuing the conference.
POLITICAL POINTS
Mr. Chifley feels that the appointment
by his Government of a royal com-
mission into Communist activities is quite
unnecessary and would be “completely
futile.” He told Parliament that he was
sure the Victorian inquiry would confirm
this. It may be that the Hollway royal
commission, being confined to the doings
of the Comrades in one State only, will
be inconclusive. A Federal commission,
given the proper terms of reference,
would be an entirely different matter.
The guessing competition to pick the
Federal election date is still going strong.
There’s no prize, but that is no deterrent.
Menzies still sticks to his hunch that an
October Saturday will be the day; Mc-
Ewen, Country-party deputy-leader,
fancies an earlier date, possibly August or
September. He is suspicious of “Labor”
assurances that November or December
will be chosen, and he may be right. The
assurances always come from “spokes-
men” or “informed circles” ; Chif. him-
self says nuffin. To reports that the
state of the rolls since redistribution pre-
cludes a snap election McEwen replied
that if the Government decides it is to
“Labor’s” advantage to bring the date
forward “no difficulty of mechanics will
stand in their way.”
Another “missing-document” flare-up
threatened in the Victorian Parliament
last week when the Country party and
“Labor” combined in a censure motion
on the Hollway Government, alleging
that a letter in connection with the Hart-
nett car project was missing from the file
tabled in the House, Like the Fadden
affair, the whole business was a damp
squib. It fizzled out with hardly a splut-
ter when Premier Hollway produced and
read the “missing” letter. The critics
had searched the wrong file. It is to be
hoped the car project doesn’t fizzle out,
too.
Attlee, who is honest and has courage,
if nothing much else, has had five Par-
liamentary secretaries sacked because
they deserted the Government on its
Ireland Bill. These fellows would force
the Six Counties into the Republic, un-
mindful of the nineteenth-century Chur-
chill’s warning when another association
under the Crown was proposed —“Ulster
will fight, and Ulster will be right.” It
was Grattan who said of the two coun-
tries he served, “If the ocean forbids
separation, the sea denies union.” A
Government at Dublin and another at
Belfast were never suggested in that great
Irishman’s age; if they had been he
would assuredly have consented to them
and trusted to time to effect a settlement
rather than accept the horrors of a
fratricidal war.
Implored by the McGirrs to tackle
the Sydney blackouts which have beaten
them hollow, the aristocratically-named
Conde, that successful Balmain g.-m., has
contented himself with a staff of two, a
secretary and a typist. So he’ll never
amount to anything in “Labor’s” hier-
archy of civil servants.
When Stanley Lewis, K.C., appeared in
the Arbitration Court on behalf of the
Federal Government at the opening of
the basic-wage hearing, employers’ coun-
sel, doubtless with memories of the Gov-
ernment’s intervention in the 40-hour-
week case, asked for miat reasons the
Federal Attorney-General was interven-
ing. Mr. Lewis replied that the inquiry
was “a propaganda move designed to em-
barrass the Commonwealth.” He “merely
wished to inform the court on any
matters on which it needed information.”
He “was not going to volunteer any state-
ment to the court.” Whereupon (Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” report) this ensued:
Mr. Justice Kelly: I fail to see the
basis of the Attorney-General’s interven-
tion. He is, you say, intervening in the
public interest, but he has nothing to
say in the public interest. The evidence
you say you can supply on request the
court could get just as easily by calling
the persons who have that evidence.
Mr. Lewis: The Attorney-General felt
that direct intervention would be a more
practicable way of lending assistance than
the method his Honor suggested.
To the dismay of “sports” the Water
Board has vetoed the scheme of Sydney
Turf Club —Mr. McKell’s contribution
to global-war strategy —to build a race-
course on the Botany water reserve. Presi-
dent Upton said the proposal “would re-
duce the efficiency of a unique water area
and interfere with leases not due to ex-
pire until 1960.” Only one member of
the Water Board supported the Turf Club
proposal. Naturally he was a “Labor”
man. He felt that it would be a “tragedy”
to turn down the scheme,
*Mr, Makin, Australian Ambassador
to U.S.A., ex-Federal Minister, ex-lay-
preacher, waxed rhetorical at U.N.O. in
Opposing the motion for resumption of
diplomatic relations with Spain. He
asked: “Is the Spanish regime today
democratic? Have political prisoners
been freed? Is there complete religious
freedom throughout Spain for all de-
nominations?” He answered all ques-
tions with “No,” and was applauded by
Soviet and other Slav delegates. Had he
posed the same questions in relation to
Russia, Poland, Bulgaria and the rest of
the Eastern bloc he could not conscienti-
ously have given any different answer;
yet these countries are all accepted as
equals at the U.N.O. council tables.
Serious-minded, devout people can Gvist
their consciences into weird knots at
times.
Economic problems are so simple,
really. During the hearing of the basic-
wage case Judge Kelly asked: “Which
comes first, the family needs or the eco-
nomic needs of the country? You can-
not define a standard of living unless it
can be afforded.” A.C.T.U. advocate
Evans replied: “If you find what the
needs of the family are, the economy of
the country will adjust itself to those
needs.” This is great news for the im-
poverished cpuntries of Asia. Take India,
for example. All Pandit Nehru will have
to do will be to find out what the needs
of the average Indian family are and
legislate accordingly. The economy of
the country “will adjust itself to those
needs” and famine will be banished over-
night.
An investigation into allegations of
rigged ballots in the Victorian branch of
the Building Workers’ Industrial Union
has proved to the satisfaction of the
Federal president that the charges were
without foundation. The suggestion had
been that an election had been rigged in
favor of the The investiga-
tion was carried out by the president him-
self. The president is Mr. E. W. Bulmer,
one of the high-ups in the ranks of the
Australian Communist party.
Canadian national radio-stations will
give all parties a total of 14| hours on
the air in the current election campaign.
Liberals (the Government party) will get
5i hours, Progressive Conservatives 4|,
C.C.F. (Labor) 3i and Social Credit la-
bours. The campaign started on May 9
and will end on June 24.
South Australia has been getting
worried over its superphosphate position.
Farmers received 10 per cent., less super,
this season than last, and with the open-
ing-up of new land for soldier-settlement
the demand is bound to increase. Low-
grade Egyptian rock has meant a lessened
output from the fertiliser works, but
better-quality stuff is now available
from Ocean Island and Christmas Island.
The other problem is shortage of sul-
phuric acid, and the Playford Govern-
ment is scouting around for a way to in-
crease supplies. Alternative plans are to
instal a plant at Port Pirie smelters to
trap sulphur fumes for acid-production
or to build a plant at Port Adelaide. If
the second plan is chosen a German pro-
cess using gypsum instead of sulphur may
be adopted. South Australia is rich in
gypsum, and the process would produce
much-needed cement as a by-product.
Thompson, Makin’s garrulous succes-
sor in Hindmarsh (S.A.), was ploughing
along in the debate on Australian in-
dustry when he thought fit to draw the
favorable notice of the House to a col-
league, referring to him as the “Minister
for Post-war Reproduction.” All sides
enjoyed the slip at Dedman’s expense so
much that it took the usually humorless
Clark several moments before he had
voice enough to call “Order! Order! ”
Calwell is not alone in his immigration
achievements. During the year to March
31, Canada absorbed 125,603 new citi-
zens, of whom 40,015 came from the
British Isles, and, included in the rest,
there were 9866 Dutch, 15,420 Poles,
10,498 Ukrainians, 8584* Scandinavians
and “northern Europeans,” and 7306
from the United States. Among the
total were 50,610 displaced persons. The
Dutch are mostly skilled agriculturists,
working for Canadian farmers under a
Government plan until sufficiently well
established to buy their own farms.
Information supplied by the Prime
Minister last Thursday showed that there
were 156 Commonwealth boards in exist-
ence. There are probably more by now ;
that was last Thursday.
Parson Duthie, who carries “Labor’s”
banner for Wilmot (Tas.), said a few
words on depressions one night last week.
He told the Reps, that the only thing that
could bring about a depression would be
a cessation of Marshall Aid. In other
words American capitalism is saving the
world from depression. Watch your step,
Mr. Duthie! Don’t you know that only
Socialist economies can stave off depres-
sions?
An English boy, who, at latest advices,
had been sneezing continuously for nearly
a fortnight, recalls a case in Illinois
(U.S.A.), where a woman listening to a
Roosevelt broadcast on the New Deal
started yawning at the rate of 20 to the
minute and in the course of a week
yawned 125,000 times. Just what British
politician touched off the English lad’s
sternutatory nerve has not been disclosed.
Increasing acquisition of city properties
to house ever-growing Commonwealth
departments is reflected in falling rate-
revenue in all capitals. Brisbane is the
latest to complain, its Town Clerk cal-
culating that his council is losing over
£200,000 a year through land which had
formerly been revenue-producing now be-
ing Commonwealth property. The rate-
free privilege is not confined to adminis-
trative departments ; T.A.A. gets off scot-
free, although its competitors pay rates.
Which draws attention to another T.A.A.
revelation made in Parliament last week.
Air Minister Drakeford, in reply to a
question from Mr. Falkinder, said that
during the two years ended March 11
last 1,263,290 dollars had been made
available to the Government airline for
the purchase of aircraft; no dollars had
been made available to A.N.A. for that
purpose.
Unanimously the Federal Arbitration
Bench declined the A.C.T.U. application
to argue a claim for an interim basic-
wage increase of £2 a week, on present
rates, and Judges expressed disappoint-
ment and embarrassment at the disclosure
that the unions had not completed pre-
paration of their case for alteration of the
basis for calculation of the basic wage
and claiming an increase in the perma-
nent rate to £lO a week. The A.C.T.U.
representative said the case would take
12 months, which “appalled” Mr. Justice
Kelly, who said two months should be
sufficient for the hearing. Foster, J., said
that after all the recent delays the advo-
cates should have been in position to go
on. Dunphy, J., said:
We have got beyond the stage where there
is any valid basis for the belief that a mere'
increase in the basic wage by itself affords
real benefit and benefit to those struggling
against the rising cost of living.
The time is ripe for a complete review
of standards and principles, and for the
elimination of any suggestion of “tinkering
with the matter.”
In the past few years Moscow has
claimed on behalf of Russian inventors
almost every scientific discovery from the
mouse-trap to the three-way stretch.
Latest on the list are the caterpillar
tractor, the self-propelled torpedo and
rolled armorplate. When these are added
to the aeroplane, the internal-combus-
tion engine, electricity, wireless, the
steam-engine, telephone, cinematograph
and the rest it becomes clear that Tsarist
Russia must have been the most advanced
country in Christendom. If Stalin isn’t
careful he’ll have his young folk wonder-
ing whether the Revolution was really
necessary after all.
Dilly-Dally Daly, Dorothy Dixer-in-
chief to Federal Cabinet, got away to a
flying start at the opening of the session
with a question which enabled Minister
for Labor Holloway to announce that
the Government would “probably” send
a 32-page illustrated booklet on social
services to every household in Australia.
The newsprint shortage and its dollar
implications aren’t noticed in Canberra
when it comes to boosting the Pairty.
This week a new opencut mine will
come into production at Callide (Q.) coal-
field ; 3Q trucks will operate to take the
output to Gladstone for shipment. In
the meantime there seems to have been
a hitch in the Victorian Government’s
plan to buy over 100,000 tons of Callide
coal. There is a suggestion that Queens-
land now needs all the coal itself. Kent
Hughes, who negotiated the deal, is up
north trying to ensure that it doesn’t fall
through.
Mildura’s hopes of having a full-fledged
university some day have been dashed
by the decision of Melbourne University
to close its expensive baby, the sub-
branch that was established in the dried-
fruit metropolis to cope with the over-
flow of rehabilitation students from the
parent institution. The fibro-cement
cloisters have been costing £60,000 a year,
but professors and lecturers don’t care
to go there because of the lack of labora-
tory facilities. The number of rehab,
students has fallen off, and the place
will probably be offered to the Com-
monwealth as a reception camp for
migrants.


Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS.”
“Spokeshave”: An ex-p.-0.-w. sergeant
told me this one at an art-exhibition.
An Australian official war-artist held a
show at Changi. He had been sketching
the officers he messed with, and he asked
the sergeant what he thought of the pic-
tures. “I always understood that an
artist’s job is to paint what he sees,” said
the sergeant. “Well,” said the artist,
“that’s what I do.” “Well, why is it,”
asked the sergeant, “that you have made
the senior officers all look so blasted
handsome?”
• * * *
“Highfield”; The eucalypt and the
wattle were called as witnesses for the
prosecution recently in a Surrey (England)
courthouse. Two partners, beekeepers
and dealers in honey, were charged that
they did sell bottles of honey with
“false trade description.” Evidence was
that in honey described as “pure English”
the Surrey county analyst had detected
pollen of the eucalyptus tree. Expert
Dr. Melville, of Kew, confirmed presence
of eucalyptus pollen and also certain
other flowers, including Australian wattle.
The court was of the opinion that the
round flight to Australia was too much
“Did I tell you Henry works in the brewery?”
to expect of even a busy English bee.
Verdict: Fined £5 and costs.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: A hundred years ago the
demand for labor in Melbourne was as
brisk as it is now, but wages didn’t reflect
the fact quite so much as they do in
these days. Laborers finding their own
rations got 18s. to 20s. weekly, and car-
penters 16s. Nursemaids drew £8
annually, housemaids got £l4. A cook
rated £2O per annum, and the material
she spoiled didn’t cost much either. With
turkeys at 9s. a pair, fowls Is. 6d. each,
tomatoes at fourpence a dozen, butter
at a shilling a pound and bread at six-
pence the four-pound loaf, the citizen
could live just as well then as he does
now—-possibly better. My father brought
up a family of six in reasonable comfort
on £4 a week and always had his bottle
of beer set beside his plate at dinner. I
got an allowance of twopence a week,
occasionally supplemented by the penny
intended for the collection-plate at the
Sunday-school I attended when a mis-
sionary turned up with an earnest plea
for funds to supply Fijian children with
woollen singlets. I saved the money up to
buy a bound volume of “Chums” at
Christmas.
* * * *
“Whistler”: More ought to be heard
about that Army babbler who used egg-
powder as a paint wherewith to decorate
the cookhouse (B. 27/4/’49). Did he
-realise that he was using the technique
of a great artjftic period? Back in the
days of the Old Masters Italy was de-
ficient in linseed-oil; so, doing the best
they could, the O.Ms. mixed their pig-
ments with egg-yolk. And most of that
hen-product has withstood the passage
of centuries.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Although “Tourist Cars”
of the early films was a latecomer com-
pared with the “Across the Rockies”
show, I was interested to see the name
of Redgrave mentioned as the “gold-
braided stationmaster” with that picture
(B. 11/5/’49). It would be Roy of that
name, though I did not know personally
of his association with it. When the flicks
began to develop as regular entertain-
ment and film drama arrived the old
actors’ attitude was hostile, but gradually
the flicks snapped them up. Two years
after old Jimmy Martin had told me “I
will nev-ah bastardise my art by taking
an engagement with the pictures” he was
helping to make films; by 1912 there
were eight companies making screen
dramas in Sydney. The pictures had
other work for the Thespians; many of
the shows employed “lecturers” to give
running commentaries on the films from
the side of the stage—’Steve Fitzgerald
(father of Jim Gerald), Corless, Bob
Henry, Harry Diver and a dozen others
found in these jobs regular salaries in-
stead of the chanciness of the travelling
flesh-and-blood show.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The television show at
Melbourne Town Hall wasn’t the first
seen in that city. It is 15 years since
the first voice-cwm-face transmission of
a human being was conveyed from the
top story of Menzies Hotel to a bed-
room on the second floor for the delecta-
tion of a company of public men and
pressmen. After the performance it was
generally asserted that nothing would
come of the invention. Now Premier
Hollway confidently expects that in a few
years Parliamentary debates will be tele-
vised into every household. Apparently
he wants to bring about the downfall of
our democratic system. Broadcasting the
bull that politicians talk has almost com-
pletely destroyed their prestige, and the
wreck will be completed when it is ac-
companied by their visual appearance,
especially if it shows them full-length
on a bench, and snoring.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: It’s easy to pour oil
on troubled waters, but can you remove
it once it has been poured? Fremantle
Harbor Trust engineers say you can’t.
The question arose during the hearing
of a suit in which a shipping company
is suing the Trust and the Commonwealth
for damage to the Panamanian, which, in
1945, provided the port with its most
disastrous fire. The claim is that the fire
reached the ship via the oil floating on
the water, and that previous attempts to
disperse the stuff had failed. The cause
of the oil? Submarines mostly. During
the war Fremantle handled more Ameri-
can naval shipping than any other port
in Australia, and it wasn’t unusual to see
a sub. come in with skull-and-crossbones
flying—the signal that she had sunk an
enemy vessel,
* * * *
“Zake”: I have become so used to
seeing in the shops suits (imp.) marked
at 25 guineas that I take them for
granted—which is the only way most of
us- could take them, anyway. Poly-
chromatic ties of shocking surrealist
design priced at 275. 6d. are no longer
news. The otherwise useless fag-end
of a roll of woollen tartan which is
given a sixpenny fringe fore and aft
and then becomes a scarf in the aristo
355. to 455. bracket —or should it be
racket? —I accept as natural to the
modern scene as the arrogance of
the self-zoned breadcarter or the
spectacle of old ladies getting up to
give their train-seats to young men —■
no, that’s tomorrow’s development.
However, I got quite a glow of
satisfaction at buying sox for Bs. lid.
of the same quality that sold before
the war for 3s. 6d., for on another
table there were some selling for
just over £1! They were just sox,
though thicker than the usual wool.
But what I want to know is, who
outside an Antarctic explorer wants
to buy extra-thick sox? More likely
than not the wearer would have to
buy shoes a size larger so that he
could get his feet in, and if he
walked a quarter-mile he’d break
out in a sweat. I don’t know, but
perhaps the idea is that they are all-
purpose, and can be pulled up and used
as woollen underpants when the soles
wear out.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I’ve seen it so often that
I do it now just for the devil of it —
see a chap reading a book and ask him
the author’s name. Nine times out of
10 he’ll carefully place a finger on his
place, then turn back the cover to see.
A librarian told me that at least 65 p.c.
of the people who read fiction never
bother to look at the author’s name before
taking a book out. “Then how do they
select their books?” I asked. “Mostly
by the title,” he deplored. I was con-
curring with his views on how mislead-
ing such a method could be when my
eye caught a familiar title peeping out
of a rack; The Specialist i by Chic Sale.
It was on a shelf marked “Medical
Books.”
* * * *
“Bump”: Touching this soil-erosion
menace. It is a human problem,
not an example of the malignity
of Nature. The farmers themselves pro-
duced it by their ignorance. A suburban
example: I saw a man carefully digging
out the weeds on his own allotment the
other Saturday afternoon and painfully
barrowing them on to a vacant block
next door. At first I thought he was
cultivating his neighbor’s block, but he
wasn’t.' He was just ridding himself of'
the fertility of his own.
* * * *
“Nunk”; Progress report on my friend
who cut out and machined a skirt for his
wife (B. 4/5/’49). “It turned out better
than I expected,” he told me. “My wife
was so pleased with it she asked me to
make one for her mother; she said it would
be a fitting gesture for Mothers’ Day.
So on that day I chopped out another
14 gores, leaving good wide hems, and
fitted them around, Nanny. Everything
went all right until Nanny started to take
an interest; then I went to my wife in
the kitchen and complained that Nanny
was wanting the waistband too high
altogether. My wife tittered. Nanny
had already been out to complain that
I was making the waist too low. But
in the afternoon my wife came in for
her share, for Nanny held that cutting
each gore single was an evil thing; the
gores should be cut in pairs. My wife
contended that the skirt was so unusual
and miraculous that no one gore was like
any other gore. Nanny countered that
she ought to know, having once been
apprenticed to a dressmaker. In the
excitement of all of this I folded the
seams wrongly on the hem, and had to
explain to Nanny that we must unpick
three long rows of fine stitching. Nanny
examined the hem, and said there was no-
thing wrong with it. This began a new
argument, Nanny arguing that I was right,
and I insisting that I was wrong, which
took us all to bed a bit dissatisfied. Thus
ended Mothers’ Day; and the next day
Nanny went home with her skirt, which
no doubt she will finish off into something
very beautiful, just to show us.” Where-
upon we both adjourned to a bar for
the drinks which my friend had so fool-
ishly refused on the Saturday afternoon
he had stayed at home to cut his wife’s
skirt.
* * * *
“Bo”: Whenever a public scandal be-
comes so hot that it can no longer be
kept in the political pigeon-hole, the un-
lucky Minister selected to make a “state-
ment” invariably falls back on the ancient
device of trying to sugar-coat the un-
palatable pill with comparative statistics.
The latest example is the high incidence
of accidents among the decrepit jugger-
“ It's a rush order.”
nauts which Sydney’s transport authori-
ties flatter by the name, of trams. Forced
to admit that in the past six months there
had been 81 collisions involving 104 in-
jured passengers, Mr, Sheahan, who is
reluctantly holding the howling Transport
baby while daddy O’Sullivan is having a
trip abroad to try to figure out why
Australia’s largest city is, in public road
transport, about on a level with Little
Bend (Ga.) or Moscow, trod the soft-
pedal. “He had been advised” that 40
years ago the average number of acci-
dents a month had been eight. Now it
was 13.5. Therefore, “having regard” to
the increased number of trams, heavier
traffic, more passengers, etc., “the pre-
sent average” was “proportionately
lower.” That should have satisfied the
mugs. But the Minister must have for-
gotten that a paragraph or two before
he had said that most of the accidents had
been caused by one tram crashing into
the rear of another, and that “most of
the collisions.... occurred in assembly-
yards and away from traffic.” Did some-
one mention “heavier traffic, more pas-
sengers, etc.”? Sh! The mugs who have
to ride in the things and meet the million
or so annual deficit shouldn’t ask such
awkward questions.
* * * *
“Melbn”: To a remark by R. G.
Menzies, at a Melbourne City Council
luncheon, that more pageantry should be
introduced into the life of the city,
Acting Lud Mayor Gengoult Smith re-
sponded that more color and drama might
be brought into the annual installation
of the Lud Mayor. I suggest that it take
the form of a procession with the First
Citizen riding in a Cobb and Co.’s coach,
to symbolise modern civic progress.
Father Tucker, of the Brotherhood of
St. Lawrence, would be only too pleased
to supply a float representing a backyard
in Fitzroy, with a queue of 11 children
taking their turns at having their daily
wash under the tap. The Garden City
of the South could be represented by a
City Father chopping down a stately
avenue of elms or poplars. As rats have
almost become an extinct species in Mel-
bourne, it might be difficult to obtain
one, but a rare specimen ran over my
feet the other evening in a Bourke-street
cinema. It might be caught and shown
dying of starvation alongside one of the
hygienic dustbins which are to be found
at the rear of every business building and
cafe in the World’s Cleanest City. The
late Councillor Connelly’s great effort
for a Brighter Melbourne could be com-
memorated by a vision of citizens and
their wives and children sipping the wines
of the country in open-air cafes on sunny
pavements and listening to the strains of
an orchestra conducted by Professor
Bernard Heinze —said vision being the
product of the overheated brain of a
maddened metho-drinker who finds him-
self in Collins-street on Sunday evening.
Other suggestions for giving color and
drama to the civic life of the Queen City
occur to me, but these will do for the
present
THE HUNT FOR THE ARK.
“British and U.S. scientists are joining forces in
an expedition to find any traces that may exist of
the remains of Noah’s Ark on Mount Ararat, the
theory' being that the intense cold may have pre-
served such for hundreds of centuries.”
They’re off to see what evidence there is
Whether a happening in Genesis
Assigned approximately to the date-
(l’ve looked it up) B.C. 2348
Can be supported or confirmed —who knows?
By facts that modern science may disclose.
A worthy aim, it has to be confessed,
For what should furnish an intriguing quest.
Who wouldn’t wish them luck in what they’re at,
These searchers for the Ark on Ararat?
The Russians, lacking any definite
Belief since Sta.lin’s time in Holy Writ
Or reverence for it, view the enterprise,
We’re told, with gloomily suspicious eyes.
They see in it some spying plot to get
Past the Iron Curtain which the Soviet
Prefers to do its daily work behind;
But such base figments of an evil mind
Needn’t disturb the expedition that
Goes Ark-prospecting upon Ararat,
From frozen poles to dizzy mountain-tops
Man’s ever venturing. He never stops
Pursuit of aught that’s like to amplify
Such knowledge as he holds of earth and sky.
Sometimes he finds it, just as he’s designed.
Sometimes, alas! it isn’t there to find,
Yet, searching, he may come on—who can tell?
Something unsought that proves as valuable.
A bit of wisdom that may come in pat
For those who hunt the Ark on Ararat.
Some scientists have lavished infinite
Labor on finding how the atom’s split.
From year to year new war-time weapons rise,
Fruits of laboratory discoveries.
We’ve all some search that beckons us, I guess,
(Beyond the mere pursuit of happiness).
And pioneers can’t always be the ones
Acclaimed as Pearys and as Edisons.
They also serve—l tell you plain and flat —
WhoTe chasing Noah’s Ark on Ararat.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


~%t ALL-BRITISH
GIVES
PERSONALITY
TO YOUR
WRITING
j
THE POPULAR PEN
with the
MARVELLOUS NIB
Conway Stewart & Co. Ltd.,
London.
S. W. RAMSAY
Melbourne and Sydney
Relieve
NASAL
SORENESS
dye to colds
Don’t suffer—when your nose feels
dried out, or sore, apply Cuticura
Ointment to aid quick relief.
Always keep a tin handy—good
for cuts, bruises and sores. One of
the famous trio—Cuticura Oint-
ment, Soap and Talcum Powder. 53s
G
«-«SS
1
AFTER
40
THE
STEPS
GROW
steeper
When steps seem a little
steeper, the days a. little longer, the bustle of modern life
more irksome, it’s time to heed nature’s warning signals.
After 40, most men and women find their system requires
extra care . . . and thousands have found the help they
need in Wolfe’s Schnapps. Known and proved for genera-
tions Wolfe’s Schnapps is the purest of spirits, a safe
stimulant and diuretic, and possesses medicinal properties
found in no other spirit. With ice-cold water, soft drinks,
lemon or cordial, it is a pleasant drink and a tonic with
lasting beneficial effects. Some also prefer
Wolfe’s Schnapps hot with lemon at bedtime. Hpa
Available in large, half and quarter-size
bottles. Start the “small bottle test’
, . . to-day 1
WOLFE'S
Cjnv>mlic
SCHNAPPS
FOR YOUR HEALTH’S SAKE
W5.200.!2
i
88WS2»
mmmm
For OLD Kitchens
as well as new . . .
You don't have to wait until you're building
a new home to enjoy the advantages of a
Wunderlich Stainless Steel Sink Unit . * . you
can replace the outworn sink in your present
home at once with a satin smooth hygienic
unit, for stocks are available for immediate
delivery.
Made in standard lengths of 4 ft., 5 ft. and
6 ft. by I ’6" wide the Wunderlich Unit is
sturdily constructed of Stainless Steel; it is
backed with timber to simplify installation.
Ask your local Hardware Merchant, 'phone
MX 2411, or write to Box 474, G.P.O. Sydney,
for further details and prices.
derli c ft
INK, UNITS
IN STAINLESS STEEL
A PRODUCT OF OUTSTANDING QUALITY OF THE
Metalworking division of wunderlich limited
“Ex-gunner”: Mr. Gullett’s proposal
that Australian soldiers should be offici-
ally styled Digger instead of Private is
doubtless well-intentioned, but I feel he
has got the wrong idea altogether. He
remarks “The meaning of the term ‘pri-
vate,’ if it ever had a meaning, is com-
pletely obscured by now,” and apparently
feels that the ranker would gain in
stature and morale by being called Digger
instead. That might be so, for a short
time, but it would not be very long
before the term meant nothing more than
private does now. And why should a
term which by a tradition built up in two
wars can now be applied to any Aus-
tralian soldier from Monash and Blarney
downwards be in future confined to the
ranks? At present Private Aussie can
rise to field rank and still call himself a
Digger. Under the Gullett scheme he
would lose the right on gaining his first
stripe,
* * * *
“Tarry Rope”: One of the most dis-
turbing cargoes that ever entered Sydney
Harbor was a consignment of onions
which rotted on the voyage. As the
Japanese boat came up the harbor people
on the foreshores sniffed and wondered
if the whole world had gone bad. It was
said that dogs on both sides of the
Harbor, scenting something in the air that
was strange and therefore menacing,
burst into furious barking. The indentor
who had arranged for the shipment at a
time of acute shortage refused to take
“Oh, dear! I knew I'd forgotten something!”
delivery; the shipping co. piled the stuff
out on the wharf, where it rapidly became
more malodorous. With a favorable
breeze the onions could be smelt as far
as the G.P.O. The Harbor Trust cut
short the argument as to who was re-
sponsible by having the decayed vege-
tables lightered far outside the Heads
and dumped into the deep; it billed the
shipping co. for the cost of the service.
I heard the cargo recalled the other day
when a man was talking about the smell
of dead whales at Eden. His companion
reckoned that cargo of dead onions was
much worse. I’ll say it was.
* * * *
“Kelms”: It’s a daily occurrence in
Kalgoorlie, and the locals take it calmly
enough, but it startles the visitor—the
apparently irresponsible sounding of the
air-raid siren. It indicates that the “ex-
press” from Perth is leaving Kurrawang,
about 18 minutes’ distant.; It eases the
strain on the station staff, Who, until they
hear it, have no more idea of the train’s'
whereabouts than their inquirers. The
siren may sound any hour of the day,
but since it has been in use the train
has never been late. It invariably arrives
18 minutes after the whistle.
* * * *
“Rex”: I apologise. Recently I came
across the Farnese Hercules (B. 4/5/’49)
still standing on his pedestal in the
gardens in front of St. Peter’s Cathedral,
Adelaide, and looking not one whit older
than when I first saw him in Victoria-
square. A gardener working near by told
me he had only been known to speak once,
and that was during the war when a
party of W.A.A.Fs. passed disparaging
remarks about him. He has never been
taken off his pedestal; I confused him
with the boy runner in the gardens
further up the hill. Both are nude and
both are black; hence the mix-up. It
was the runner who disappeared; later
he was discovered in Torrens Lake.
* * * *
“Brid”: Bridport (Tas.) fishermen are
scouring homes in the neighborhood for
pieces of old cedar. It’s not a sudden
rage for collecting and reselling antiques.
Someone has discovered that of all forms
of bait offered for his delectation the
barracouta prefers a nice slab of cedar-
wood on the jig. Painted wood, strips of
red-and-white calico, pieces of shiny tin
and other things have been tried, but the
’couta goes for the cedar with wide-open
mouth. The wife of one fisherman found
that 6in. had been sawn off the legs of
her cedar table, and auction marts are
being visited in search of stray items of
furniture that might be turned into ’couta
lure.
* * * *
“F.S.”: An artistic hoax, comparable
to the Paris example where students got
a donkey to paint a picture with its tail
dipped in buckets of pigment, has been
perpetrated at Loughborough (Eng.),
where th® critics acclaimed a painting
which turned out to have been painted
by a boy of six who was given a piece
of packing-paper, paints and brushes and
told to amuse himself. After slopping
a saucerful of the pigment on the paper
the lad induced the cat to sit on the mess,
and the result drew the comment from
one critic; “A fine specimen of modernism
by artist Thomas Warbis.” Well, so it
would be. The whole aim of the modern-
ists is to get back to the innocence of
childhood. In a similar hoax in Mel-
bourne some yachtsmen, engaged in paint-
ing a boat, noticed that one of their
number had been wiping surplus paint off
his brushes on a piece of board and that
the effect looked pleasing. They labelled
it “Sunset on Hobson’s Bay,” stuck the
author’s initials on it, put a frame around
it and sent it to an exhibition. That it
didn’t attract notice, favorable or adverse,
is not surprising, since the majority of
exhibits were much in the same class.
* * ♦ *
“Jonah”; “O’Hector’s” red-headed
parson (B. 4/5/’49) seems to me to have
been exceedingly lucky. And Ted ex-
ceedingly even-tempered. Another Ted
I knew, if a perfect stranger had chosen
to invite himself into our shed and then
proceeded to assault one of our men for
acting naturally, would have made short
work of his impudent reverence. Object
to such conduct in church or at the
rectory, yes—but not in what, after all,
was the shearers’ home. In any case he
doesn’t seem to have been broadminded,
and a kick in the pants is hardly straight-
forward,
* * * *
“Kando”: No doubt “Hamer” and
“E.H.M.” will remember the decoration
on the ceiling of the Painted Hall in
Greenwich Naval College. The overhead
lantern had glass on one side only, and,
to balance matters, imitation windows
were painted on the opposite side. To
heighten the effect, a ray of light showing
the window frames of the dummy side
was painted across the ceiling, intensified
by shadows. The effect was remarkably
good, and the work was usually pointed
out to visitors as a masterpiece of some
artist of the long ago. My most vivid
recollection of Greenwich is centred on
the promenade-walk between the college
and the river. My ship was lying in the
S.-W. India docks, and I had stayed over-
night near Greenwich Park. During the
evening the house cat died and my
hostess was worried about the dis-
posal of the corpse, I volunteered to
drop it in the river from the college
prom, on my way to the ferry. That
particular morning, instead of the walk
being deserted, several people were lean-
ing over the parapet looking at the sea-
gulls and the river. Not wishing to incur
the wrath of the Thames Conservancy
authorities, I had to wait for an oppor-
tunity to commit Thomas to the deep;
then I scuttled off to the ferry, feeling
that I had obeyed Nelson’s Trafalgar
signal.
A LAWSON STAMP.
“A new Australian postage-stamp will bear the
profile of Henry Lawson, Australian poet and writer.”
I wonder will it lighten Henry’s spirits
When the news reaches the Elysian scene
That this post-mortem tribute to his merits
Is being used to keep his memory green.
Who knows? But wheresoever mails are
freighted
Few are the faces on the same they clamp
With better claims to be commemorated
Than his, if only on a postage-stamp.
He joins a varied gallery, does Henry,
Of men renowned to more or less extent
Or utilised for marking the centenary
Of this or that historical event.
Crowned heads, explorers, chaps of light and
leading,
Accepted ornaments of courts or camps,
In the long run how few we find succeeding
To get their dials on to postage-stamps;
Some rise to the distinction for excelling
Their fellows in the whirl of party strife
But few, how singularly few, for telling
Stories that hold the mirror up to life,
Or weaving rhymes that stir and stick and
linger
Wherever townsfolk meet or swagmen tramp.
Here’s to our first, maybe our foremost, singer
To be enshrined upon a postage-stamp.
You’ll have a chance to glimpse his phiz when-
ever
You use the postage fee to dump and damp
On envelopes. Well, better late than never
That Lawson’s head is on a postage-stamp.
N.s.w.
MIDFORD.
Rod Quinn on the Lawson stamp: —
Those who knew Henry Lawson in life and
those who know him only by his work may
be interested in hearing how Lawson came by
the posthumous honor of having his features
imposed on an Australian postage-stamp. The
credit belongs solely to Mrs. Lucy Cassidy,
widow of “Gilrooney,” an old-time Bulletin
bard, who went west of west a few months
ago. For thirteen years she laid siege to the
powers-that-be in Canberra, refusing to be dis-
heartened by Ministerial indifference and depart-
mental unconcern. In the end she triumphed.
By her achievement she not only satisfied her
heart’s desire, but also helped to heighten the
status of Australian writers. From the long-ago
year when Lawson first came to Sydney up to
his final departure she befriended him in many
ways. That Lawson was not unmindful of her
kindness is borne out by the fact that during
the last few months of his life he inscribed
“The Night Train” in her autograph book.
Melodious and pathetic, it was his last worth-
while effort.


ABORIGINALITIES
“S.E.”: When Dick took over the
township’s dilapidated store he became
the most popular fellow around. He
chucked out the familiar, fly-marked junk,
introduced every line and agency he
could lay hands on, and announced that
things were going to be run efficiently
in future. Orders poured in, and
were taken down in strict rotation. “Glad
you’ve got the store now, Dick,” said
Cocky Brand, oozing good-fellowship.
“Us always bein’ good friends, y’ know.
Get’s six dozen rabbit-traps, will y’? An’
put us down f’r some wire-nettin’ —that’s
pretty urgent—an’ a coupla coils o’
number eight galvanised.” Twelve
months later Dick was still striving to
rUn things “good ’n’ proper.” It was
market-day, and the town was busy. From
the store verandah to the counter was a
waiting line that grew steadily as Dick
tried to cope with the first-comers. “Aw,
y’ can’t tell me y’ haven’t had any sheet
linin’,” growled the first bloke. “It’s
I had some, see?” “Yair, an’ what about
my nails?” demanded the next on the
line. “Call y’rself a storekeeper? Cripes,
I” He was swamped by Number
One banging the counter and bawling
the dire urgency of his needs. Still try-
ing to handle them both at once, Dick
was half-deafened by a voice that broke
in alongside. “Look here, y’ haven’t
sent out that nettin’ I ordered. Or that
number eight galvanised.” Dick waved
him back. “Not you yet. Cocky,” he
explained. “If you want to tick me off,
you’ve got to go back into the queue
and take your turn with all the others,”
* * * %
“Wippegong”: Such (B. 11/5/’49)
should “go bush” for a while. We’ll
overlook his drawing a big gum with a
clean butt and strips of bark hanging
from the trunk, instead of the other way
round ; but he can’t be allowed to enter
an obviously Australian axeman into
competition or co-operation with a wood-
pecker because there is no such bird in
this land. We have tree-creepers, which
start at the bottom and run up trees,
prising spiders and beetles from the bark
as they go; and we have sitellas, or tree-
runners, which start in the upper branches
and scoot down —they have slightly up-
turned beaks to prevent their tripping in
their excitement and thus pole-vaulting
to the ground. Neither pecks the wood,
though the name is still sometimes given
to the -creeper; but, except that he lives
upon trees, he bears no resemblance in
size, shape, color or song to the real
woodpeckers, which spread over all the
other continents. Those that came tap-
ping around our camps in S.-E. Asia
were a bit bigger than our thrush, dull-
gold on the back, red about the crested
head, and fast on the wing; and when
they settled to work it was like a little
riveting-machine going. His is one of
the very few large bird-families not
represented here. Such should have
sent his bird-fancier fruit-picking—he’d
have got plenty of feathered helpers
there.
*,* * *
“Baro-Belle”; The experiment to be
made by a Hughenden grazier, A. Beck,
to stock with 1000 sheep Orpheus Island,
in the Palms group, 50 miles north of
Townsville (Q.), is not, as claimed, the
first of its kind. Some 20 years ago
Busuttin Bros, successfully raised sheep
on St. Bees Island, 20 miles from Mackay,
after an earlier effort had failed owing
to the sheep, on being landed, rushing
to the ocean’s edge and dying
through drinking too much salt waters
Another drawback was the speargrass,
but this was successfully overcome, John
Burke’s steamers each year lifted many
bales of wool after the island’s annual
shearing. About 25 miles further north,
on Lindeman Island, the late Captain
Adderton and his wife also raised the
jumbucks, and there the Burke steamers
also called. Incidentally, the captain
never killed his sheep, but on the approach
of visiting boating men would prepare
a kid, and when the hungry party reached
shore a few hours later an appetising roast
dinner was ready, which all enjoyed in
the belief that it was mutton. Of late
years both islands have gone over to
the tourist business.
*.* * ♦
“8.F.”: Of course the kookaburra
sits out on a dead branch (B. 27/4/’49);
always ready for a meal, Jacko doesn’t
want his field of vision cluttered up
with leaves and twigs as he scans the
ground looking for insects, small rats and
mice. An iron rail is just another perch
to him, and if it happens to be handy
to a fish-pond he’ll laugh his head off.
Saw a kooka, who had been sitting on
that dead branch for some time, shake
himself and then cough up a skeleton
of a large beetle, apparently having
digested all the softer parts. But Jacko
depends on his hearing as well as his
eyesight for a feed. Watch him hop over
a lawn, pause for a few seconds as if
listening intently, then dig out a beetle or
a worm,
* * * *
“B. A, Ker”: This seems to be the
age of shoddy workmanship; and no-
where is it more apparent than in shop-
windows. Tools, roughly forged, neither
polished nor buffed, shamelessly flaunt
their exorbitant price-tickets. Wooden
articles, unplained andj whiskered', ufir
blushingly show gum-veins and ragged
knots. Bedroom suites, priced at a figure
that would have bought a small cottage
ten years ago, display warped doors and
conspicuous nail-holes. Yet, irritating as
I find most examples of shoddy crafts-
manship, a glaring example in the win-
dow of a large store in George-street,
Sydney, recently filled me with a feeling
of warm satisfaction. A window-dresser
of the old school would have positively
refused to use such material, but the
modern tribe evidently has to make, the
best of the rough stuff, “even as you and
I.” Anyway, it is there; a dummy— not
the supercilious, pink-cheeked, long-lashed
sissy that usually wears man’s clothes
and irritates man beyond all things, but
a bust that was evidently intended to
follow along those lines. I’d like to shake
hands with the slovenly workman who
turned out that dummy with a beautiful,
swollen, bunged-up eye!
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “The fastest bit o’
shearin’ I ever seen,” said Mat, “was in
a shed out from Moama, on the down-
Look, Aethelfreda — brakes !”
river side towards Pericoota. We had
a bloke called Flamingo, long-legged
cove with a scrawny neck an’ a great
big nose, an’ he used t’ stand round in
smokos mostly on one leg, just standin’
an’ sayin’ nothin’. He never seemed t’
laugh, an’ looked like a bloke who’d lost
a quid an’ found a trey. At night in the
hut he’d sit be the fire, silent, puffin’
a pipe an’ sayin’ nothin’. Letters used
t’ come for him about every second day,
an’ we somehow got t’ know that he was
bothered be trouble at home. One Sundee
him an’ me is fishin’ on the river an’
I chip him about bein’ down in the
mouth. He tells me it’s his missus. She’s
in some bother or other an’ she keeps
writin’ t’ ask him what she’ll do an’
tryin’t’ get him t’ chuck up his pen an’
come home an’ help her out. I
can see he ain’t too pleased about it,
so I don’t prod him no more. Well,
pretty soon we’re gettin’ near the cut-
“If you want to get paid you'll have to stick to this Government
free-medicine formulary.”
out, but old Flam, don’t seem any happier.
Then, just after the second run started
one day, Flam, gets one o’ them urgent
letters. He holds the sheep between his
knees, rips the letter open, reads, lets out
an ungodly yell an’ does a stepdance
down the board. Then he hoes into it.
Yair, he’d been doin’ about a hundred
an’ ten a day up t’ then, but he peels
of niliy two hundred that day, an’ he’s
laughin’ an’ slingin’ jokes about like a
two-year-old. After the bell I says t’
him, ‘Good news, Flamingo?’ ‘Too
ruddy right,’ he says. ‘The missus has
made up her mind at last. She cleared
out with that bloke day before yesterday.
Listen, Mat, how about me an’ you head-
in’ for town tonight an’ gettin’ stuck
into a few drink?.’ Gripes, y’ wouldn’t
ha’ known he was the same bloke.”
* * * *
“Bughouse”: One can get all sorts of
theories about the moon. One scientist
I read reckoned the earth originally had
two moons; one lost its balance and fell
into this planet, the impact being so
violent that it knocked the originally ver-
tical axis sideways, thus creating that
diversity of seasons which makes the
earth a pleasant place to live on. Tire
debris from the exploded satellite flew in
all directions ; which largely accounts for
the abruptly occurring diversity of soils
which are so marked a feature of the
earth’s surface. Another theory is that
the moon has always been there; that
during the period when the earth was
still plastic huge masses were torn off
by centrifugal force, finally to coalesce
and form the moon. The gaps from which
such masses were tom are now the
immense holes which contain the present
oceans. An even better theory is that
the moon was formed and placed where
it is by a beneficent Creator. However
it got there, its control of the tides is a
great aid to man with his shipping and
commerce, and is an important factor in
keeping the land-masses clean and
healthy, as well as the sea itself reoxygen-
ated and purified by the tidal move-
ment near rivers,
* * * *
“Sou’-west”: There is worse eating
than gannet (B. 13/4/’49). Out one day
on the Indian Ocean when we should
have had better sense, we found our-
selves caught in a howling nor’-wester
which looked like putting the 25-footer
under, until we managed to find shelter
behind a cape about 60 miles south of
Fremantle. Dropping the pick, we lay
there for two whole days. Then starva-
tion drove us ashore. But our skipper
had an objective: “Old George lives just
behind the sandhills here—he’ll have
something to eat of some sort.” George
had. His old slab-hut was as warm and
smoky as the antechamber to Hades,
while over the fire a big billycan hung.
“Something smells pretty good,” re-
marked the skipper. George grinned with
hospitality. “You’re just in time for a
feed of stewed fowl.” “Gone in for
poultry, eh?” “Oh, I have my little flock,”
the old bloke chuckled. “Pretty tough
old roosters these, George,” remarked the
skipper, as his teeth bounced off the
provender, “and you’ve been feeding
them on too much fish, by the taste of
them.” The old Moke was a bit of a
scholar. “Never look a gift horse in
the mouth ; those are Nature’s own fowl
from Nature’s own poultry-yard. And
shags are always plentiful around here.”
* * * *
“Trim”: On the first morning of a
two-day horse sale it doesn’t take Shaggy
long to realise that the Italian com-
munity are in the market for horses, that
a dozen or so of them have formed a
“ring” to keep the prices down and that
Banarno is buying for the “ring.” As
the bidding finishes on certain nags and
Shaggy points the cane at him, Banarno
says “Knocka dat one down Rinaldo,”
“Knocka dat one down Bianto,” and so
on, and occasionally “Knocka dat one
down me, Banarno.” During the break
for lunch the Ities look over their pur-
chases, drafted into their respective hold-
ing-yards. Low murmuring between two
or three of them grows into loud accusa-
tions by 11 of them and equally loud
denials by Banarno, They all converge
on the yard holding Banarno’s own pur-
chases, and there are wild gesticulations
as they try to explain to Banarno that he’s
getting the pick of the bunch. One says
to Shaggy; “Banarno ’e gotta da good
’orse —Rinaldo ’e getta da not-so-good.”
However, Banarno opiates again during
the afternoon, and after Shaggy adjourns
the sale until the next day the Italians
again stage wild scenes, alternately in-
specting their own nags and then all col-
lecting at the yard holding Banarno’s.
They are still looking them over when
Shaggy leaves the yards after dark. Late
that night 12 very excited Italians walk
into Shaggy’s office. Says Bianto, “You
gotta da bill for da ’orses?” Shaggy
brings out the dozen accounts. Says the
Itie, “You cutta da ’orses up and put in
da ’at, yes?” Shaggy asks “Banarno’s,
too?” When the din dies down it appears
that Banarno’s also have to go in. Says
Bianto as he pulls them out one by one,
“Rinaldo, you getta dat ’orse,” “Banarno,
you getta dat ’orse,” and so on until the
whole 40-odd are redistributed. Next
morning the 12 Italians are again in the
market, each vigorously bidding on his
own account. They are determined not
only to outbid each other but in particular
“Dat Banarno.” Shaggy is able to report
another record sale.
KELPIES.
Out where the scrubs stand dark and dense
And the great plains blaze in the sun,
Where the wide sheep-paddocks, unmapped,
immense,
Reach out to the Queensland border fence —
It is there where the kelpies run.
Where the dustclouds spin on the dry claypans,
Where the dancing brolgas play,
Where the dingo fashions his furtive plans—
It is there that the little black-and-tans
Toil on in the heat all day.
There is the kingdom of Nip and Nell,
Of Tweed and Swallow and Sweep,
Of the racing beauties I loved so well;
And many a tale I yet could tell
Of what they could do with sheep.
Hustling their mob through the barley-grass
Or turning a wing inside;
Often in fancy I see them pass
Leaping to answer the call “Here, lass!”
And the caution “Wide, go wide!”
Many a time I can see them lie
In the shade of a kurrajong,
Chester, or Connie, or Flip, or Fly,
Searching a foot for a bindi-eye
That has lain in a pad too long.
When the sun goes down in a crimson glow
And a wave of golden foam
I can see them snatched to a saddle-bow
With a “Come along, pup, you’re tired, I know,”
And given a free ride home.
We have dogs in the North of world-wide fame,
And champions not a few
Of grander coat and of stouter frame
But none more gallant and none more game
Than the kelpie friends I knew.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


Established 1868
Contractors to Government, Municipal,
Shipping. Banking and Commercial
Institutions throughout Australia
SACKSOT**
osiiijjy4n
. XL rrwu .
Jackson & O’Sullivan
Pty. Ltd.
Incorporating
Watson, Ferguson & Co.
Printers, Paper Merchants,
Manufacturing Stationers
HEAD OFFICE AND FACTORIES
BRISBANE
AMD AT SYDNEY, LONDON, NEW YORK
LETTERPRESS 8c OFFSET PRINTERS
LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTERS
TYPOGRAPHERS
MONOTYPE AND LINOTYPE
OPERATORS
•TEEL AND COPPER ENGRAVERS
DIE STAMPERS, EMBOSSERS
PHOTO PROCESS ENGRAVERS
ENVELOPE MANUFACTURERS
CARTON MANUFACTURERS
STEREOTYPERS
RULERS. BOOKBINDERS
GOLD BLOCKERS
COMMERCIAL ARTISTS
ADVERTISING CREATORS AND
COUNSELLORS Z Z PUBLISHERS
ENGINEERS
SYSTEMS AND OFFICE EQUIPMENT
WRAPPINGS AND TWINES
Telegrams and Cables
*JACKSUL.” BRISBANE
TO NEW ZEALAND
Increased T. E. A. L schedules now
provide 2,000 trans-Tasman air
passages every month. Return fare only
£63 (single £35.) You’re there
few comfortable hours, saving
precious days for business
or holidays.
USMAN EMPIRE AIRWAYS LIMITED
in association'with Q.E.A., 8.0.A.C. and B.C.P.A.
P 2
RESERVATIONS: QANTAS AND LEADING TRAVEL AGENTS
BOMRIDSONTIPPEIII
ENGINES J
I
"Knowledge Is Power", so runs an old saying,
and this is true of the activities of the Ronaldson-
Tippett Organization for its pre-eminent position
in the field of its manufactures is undoubtedly due
to knowledge born of Experience.
Behind the sterling performance of each and
every Ronaldson-Tippett Engine is Knowledge ex-
tending to every section of the business. Therefore,
the peerless reputation of these power units is
your most dependable guide to purchasing—a
certain indication of the LIFETIME satisfaction
which will result
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT LTD.
Head Office: Ballarat, Victoria. Showrooms: 628 Bourke St., Mel-
bourne. N,B,W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Ltd., 42
Bridge St., Sydney. Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson Tippett (Qld.)
Pty., Ltd., Scottish Union House, 127 Eagle St., Brisbane.
JLJLIdd II- MOSOIUNOU
“Kelms”: I don’t know, any more than
you do, how birds, particularly homing
pigeons, pursue an unerring direction to
their objective, but I’m intrigued by a
suggestion advanced in “Lancet.” It is
that “the sensitivity of the birds’ feathers
might act as a natural radar.” The
theory is that the feathers can discern
air patterns and respond to some dis-
tinctive quality of the great winds “un-
dreamt of by man,” and its proponent
thinks that due credit has not been given
to “the sensitivity of that wonderful
structure —the feather —as a tactile organ
of winds and vibrations.” The theorist
may be on the right track, but he has far
to travel. Granted that the great winds
possess those qualities, and that the birds’
feathers may respond to them in some
radar-likc manner, there is still the prob-
lem of the bird that returns to a home
from which it was taken, by road trans-
port, in a closed box. It would have to
lecognise “air patterns” of which it had
had no previous experience. And the
theory, to be proved, must account, also,
for the homing instinct of fish, because
it is the homing instinct, as a whole, that
is being probed, and the analogy between
bird and fish is too pronounced to be
accidental. True, the scales may respond
in the same way as feathers, and the
journey, over thousands of miles, of
elvers to the inland waters which their
parents left before going to the sea to
spawn, may be accomplished by an in-
herited radar-instinct. Rats inherit that
instinct, so why not fish? But the hom-
ing instinct is not confined to birds and
fish. Frogs have travelled hundreds of
miles, taking months on the journey, to
return home. It may even be that man
once possessed the instinct, and that’s a
theory that’s worth investigating. Maybe
some semi-dormant instinct, driving him
here and there in his world-wide search
for a home, accounts for the aimless
wanderings of Australia’s World Citizen.
* * * *
“B. Fair”: Let not the lowly* angler
despair who, arriving at his favored
fishing-ground after a long row, finds (as
I did) that he has come without the bait.
Dredging even my pockets in despair, I
came across a tram-ticket in the tobacco-
tin and this I weaved on a 6/0 hook and
let it float downstream. It snared a 141 b.
tailer. I, speak of this, however, not
without a sense of guilt, and I tremble
“The champ!"
to think what penalties may be involved
for giving a fish a free ride on a used
ticket.
* * * *
“Bo”: Mcßurney was on the windlass
while Wilson, who shared with him the
well-sinking contract, was down the shaft
sending up the buckets of mullock. Mac
had wound one bucket about quarter-
way up the shaft when he heard a bellow
and, looking around, saw a Jersey bull
charging towards him. He let the wind-
lass handle go, and as the barrel flew
around as the bucket dropped there came
a yell from the depths, and then silence,
But Mac was unaware of this as he
dodged around, yelling for help, with the
bull in hot pursuit. It was several
minutes before the animal, frustrated at
every attempt to get at the windlass-man,
angrily shook his head and moved off,
helped by some flying gibbers. Mac
then looked down the shaft. He could
dimly see Wilson sitting up against the
side of the shaft rubbing his head. “A
man might call out for help!” Mac
roared down the shaft. “For all you
give a damn a man might ’a’ bin gored
t’ death! ”
* * * *
“Jimmy”: Put up a praying-mantis and
a bottle of D.D.T. and I’ll back the
“dried stick” to settle more flies more
surely than the liquid. Watched one
operating alongside some fish-heads that
had drawn the usual quota. The un-
suspecting fly, tricked by the dried-stick
camouflage, was quickly in the grasp of
a pair of saw-toothed legs, or arms.
Folding back the arms, with its meal held
in the angle, the mantis chewed stolidly,
even the wings going down. After each
meal, not wasting any time in licking his
chops, the “stick” dropped back into
camouflage and swung in the breeze,
waiting for the next meal to appear. The
mantis has a great sense of distance;
I didn’t see him once go for a fly un-
successfully. Always it waited until the
prey was a sure catch. Blowflies were
his favorite dish, though the livestock
carried by the blowie was declined.
*** * '
“Bill F.”: I used to think that only
ground-feeding birds walked, until 1
noticed a dove and a kookaburra forag-
ing for a bite. The kooka covered more
ground in one hop than the dove did
with 10 quick steps. Birdland seems
to be a mixture of hoppers and hikers
up to the size of a magpie; then they
are either walkers or waders. Can’t
imagine a blue crane, or duck, hopping
about the waterfront. In the parrot
family, from budgerigars to galahs, there
are no hoppers, though I have seen them
feeding from trees and the ground. The
wings being useless for flight from warri-
gal and abo., no doubt the emu and
cassowary would long have been extinct
had they been .hoppers.
♦ * * *
“Minnamurra”: The usual theory is
that when, big fish eat small fish, and
small fish'smaller ones, the prey invari-
ably goes down head-first, thus obviating
risk of injury to the diner from fins,
barbs and spikes. But what of the
prawn, which has spikes both ends? I
have noticed in the stomachs of caught
fish many a prawn, and these have always
been curled in a half-moon position,
with the spikes pointing toward the fish’s
head. That makes it look as if the
piscatorial safety-first slogan is; “Swallow
’em back-first.”
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Searching for a
parallel to “Billy T.’s” “sea-egg” which
“working in the dark, employing itself
and depending for materials on its own
saliva or something, constructed its in-
tricate habitation” (B. 27/4/ ’49), I
thought of a minute organism. Working
without even the knowledge of its own
existence, acting solely on the instinct of
a thousand ages, this organism grew and
fashioned out of its puny cells a body
complete with all the organs necessary
not only to its own existence, but to the
perpetuation of its species. From the
first cells with which it sprang to life it
fashioned heart, lungs, an intricate diges-
tive system, an amazingly complex
method of distributing fuel to its furthest
cells; and it encased the entire structure
in a covering which man, for all his
inventiveness, could not duplicate. Yet
for none of these accomplishments does
the organism deserve any credit. Once
the union of its primitive cells was
accomplished, it could no more halt the
creation of its masterpiece than could
“Billy T.’s” sea-egg the construction of
its habitation. If, in any way, the finished
article varies from its predecessor of a
million years ago, it is due to some
striving, probably unconscious, of all the
intervening links towards a better adjust-
ment to their environment. In one way
only the example I have quoted surpasses
the sea-egg. Somewhere in its evolution
there sprang to being a spark which,
growing, has fired the creature to greater
deeds than his puny brain can encompass.
THE SANDS.
A lifetime since we raced across these sands,
Leaving the print of bare feet where no others
were;
And shells were broken blossoms, thick on the
tide-line,
Sand-crabs were fearless, popping upright to
stare.
And gulls were greedy in a friendly fashion.
Long ago this quiet cove was unknown;
We jumped from the creaking buggy to strip
on the beach,
And dash headlong into the calm, green sea.
While the black horse stood patient under the
wild plum,
Dreaming of a promised nosebag, enduring a
halter.
Progress found the cove, set up cottages,
Cleared the sand-dunes of wattle, erected “con-
veniences,”
And long before this planted a row of sheoaks
Where the tough coast-grasses clutched at the
falling tide;
Where dingoes prowled in search of turtle-nests.
Under the sapling sheoaks Progress set tables
Of fresh red timber, with matching seats for
picnickers.
Then the yellow crabs scuttled from our
approach,
The seagulls learned to be wary of dogs and
boys.
Billies no longer boiled on driftwood fires, hot
water
Was sold for threepence a pint at the kiosk.
We heard the sheoaks lamenting.
QUEENSLAND.
ESME STRATHDEE.


TUB
UNION
TRUSTEE
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Incorporated in Victoria.
Est. 1885
Wf|
Will act as Executor of your estate.
Will act as Trustee by direct appointment,
or in place of a trustee who desires, for
health or other reasons, to relinquish his
trust.
Will act as Administrator of a will where
an Executor declines, or, by consent of
next-of-kin, will act as Administrator
where there is no will.
Will act as Attorney or Agent for the
management of property.
Will act as Manager of the estate of an
insane or incapable person, or as Guardian
of the estate of infant children.
Will act as Trustee for the holders of
debentures.
In all these cases the Union Trustee Com-
pany, with many years of proved capacity
behind it, will at small cost relieve the
individual of onerous duties and exacting
responsibilities.
Write for Free Booklet.
'
333 Collins St., Melbourne—2 O’Connell St., Sydney —398-402 Queen St., Brisbane
. and at Albury, Townsville, Toowoomba and Rockhampton
The only Trustee company having offices each with its own Board of Directors and management in three States—Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland,
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dee., Income.t Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
To staff fund, £20,802 .. .. 1
1944. . 4,000,659 1,462,951 321,076 50,000 12,148,046
Profit on Sale of Securities, £2216.. J
To staff fund, £28,239 .. • • t 9 npq son
1945.. 4,426,155 1,917,038 870,613 51,765 ]
To staff fund, £25,773 .. .. 1
1946.. 4,960,951 1,996,067 580,448 5,959 I „„„ 9 , 0
Add exchange premium on net oyer- f 6 ’ ’
sea assets, £687,536 .. .. j
To staff fund, £43,555 . . . . ) 9 q«A nss
1947.. 5,662,219 1,983,579 654,572 16,425 ]
1948.. 6,848,285 2,220,456 764,279 7,594 ) o q9l 997
To staff fund, £34,679 .. .. } ’ ’
* Includes shareholders’ proportion of profits.
t After deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Ex- Written Added
Dec., Income.t Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
£ £ £ £ £
To staff fund, £12,111
1944.. 2,031,637 430,456 460,180 1 1,126,543
Loss on sale of securities, £2344..!
To staff fund, £13,255
1945.. 2,270,205 574,015 495,201 1,474 11,136,260
To general reserve, £50,000 .. j
To staff fund, £13,839 .. ..1
To general branch, £3,0,000
1946.. 2,424,619 716,359 541,534 2,738 1-1,530,512
Add exchange premium on net over- |
sea assets, £410,363 .. .. |
To staff fund, £22,270 .. . .f toruvifi
1947.. 2,669,908 808,350 622,52912,043 * o
1948.. 2,910,499 931,097 674,311 5,958 t , 9R9 ~,
To staff fund, £16,989 ..
* Includes shareholders’’ proportion of profits.
t After deducting taxes.
“The fact that life assurance is a means
of guaranteeing future income in the
face of high taxation, low interest rates
and high living costs is probably more
fully appreciated now than ever before,”
said the M.L.C.’s chairman. Sir Henry
Manning, at the annual meeting last week.
This is clearly illustrated by the rapid
growth of the co.’s' business over the last
decade; —
1938. 1948.
New business .. £12,673,789 £31,347,922
Assurances in force .. 82,561,933 195,992,364
Annual income .. .. 4,236,756 9,473,806
Total assets .. .. 28,225,004 59,528,272
Since the end of 1938 more weight has
been put on than during the preceding
62 years; this despite the forcing down
of interest rates during the war and post-
war years, which means that some of the
fatness has been taken out of the pre-
war scale of bonuses to policyholders.
From the security aspect, there is no ade-
quate substitute for life assurance, which
caters for a wide range of individual
wants ; and, among other things, it is anti-
inflationary, because it is one of the most
effective means of saving with sufficient
incentive to continue it regularly and to
resist the temptation of indiscriminate
spending.
Last year’s record £31,347,922 of new
business consisted of £23,008,990 (up
£2,443,298) ordinary and £8,338,932 (up
£301,447) industrial. The average amount
per policy (£386 ordinary and £97.4 in-
dustrial) was higher, too. Group assur-
ance —largely subsidised staff superannu-
ation schemes —helped to put pep into the
ord. figures, and so did a buoyant national
income and “full” employment, while
inflationary pressures tended to reduce
an assured’s effective life cover.
After deducting taxes (£206,510, up
£20,738), the year’s income from all
sources amounted to £9,473,806 (up
£956,425)—£6,348,235 (up £726,016) ordi-
nary and £2,910,499 (up £240,591) and
£215,072 (down £10,182) general. Claims,
which were well within expectation, and
exes., upon which the management has
always kept a tight hold, together took
£4,589,226. Of the £4,884,580 that was
left, £4,642,083 was added to assurance
funds and reserves, £13,809 was written
off the book-value of securities, £52,789
was sent to the staff fund and £175,900
(17.5 p.c. on capital) was paid in divs. to
shareholders in respect of 1947. The div.
for 1948 was lifted to 19.2 p.c.
The £54,457,256 of assurance funds —
in addition, there is £1,208,000 of other
reserves which also belongs to policy-
holders —alone substantially exceeded the
net liability under policies. The differ-
ence between the two, or amount available
for distribution, has grown in this way;
1938. 1946. 1947, 1948.
Ordinary £849,680 £928,621 £1,038,161 £1,163,267
Industrial 115,459 158,924 168,979 178,757
Total £965,139 £1,087,545 £ 1,207,140 £1,342,024
Of the amounts available, over 90 p.c. in
the ordinary and more than 85 p.c. in the
industrial section are distributed as
bonuses among policyholders at rates
which compare favorably with those of
other first-class offices, here and abroad.
After deducting taxes, the net effective
rate of interest earned last year was £3
13s. lid. p.c. (down Is. 5d.) in the ordi-
nary and £3 1 Is. Id. (down 5d.) in the
industrial department. Policy liabilities
are calculated on a net premium basis
at 2i p.c. ordinary and 2 p.c. and 2j p.c.
respectively on participating and non-
participating industrial contracts, The
margins between the assumed and actual
rates of earnings are more than is usually
considered adequate for maintenance of
reversionary bonus rates.
Of the year’s net premiums, exes, took
15.3 p.c. ordinary and 27.6 p.c. industrial
as against 14.9 p.c. and 27.8 p.c. re-
spectively in 1947 —a creditable perform-
ance considering the amount of new
business involved.
To help offset the low return now
obtained from Government paper more
attention is being given to industrial and
other securities:
1947. p.c. 1948. p.c.
Public securities £44,700,691 81.5 £46,398,492 77.0
Mortgages, etc... 6,355,874 11.5 8,181,408 13.7
Loans on policies 1,506,226 2.7 1,588,866 2.7
Cash, book debts,
etc 655,191 1.2 735,123 1.2
Property.. .. 350,765 0.6 402,350 0.7
Debentures, etc. 440,905 0.8 460,833 0.8
Shares .. ~ 939,537 1.7 1,761,200 3.0
£54,949,189 £59,628,272
Liabilities* .. 1,979,741 1,862,722
Net assets .. £52,969,448 £57,665,550
* Other than under policies.
Last year £1,697,801 was added to Gov-
ernment securities, which still account
for nearly four-fifths of total assets, and
£1,825,534 to mortgages, etc,, which are
very helpful to new business figures—the
etcetera is £1,896,009 (up £479,908)
advanced to co-operative building
societies. Shareholdings increased by
£831,663. Assets are known to be worth
more than their book-value.
General Industries, Ltd.
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
, Dividends ,
Pref. To Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
Assets revaluation, £4882 .. .. •• 179,249
1940 154,060 20,851 p.c.= 79,646 53,563 232,812
1941 112,206 20,851 12J „ „ 79,646 11,709 244,521
1942 111,386 20,851 12J „ „ 79,646 10,889 255,410
1943 99,505 20,851 10 ~ „ 63,717 14,937 270,348
194*4 90,239 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 5,671 276,019
1945 95,560 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 11,992 288,011
1946 95,933 20,851 10 „ „ 63,717 11,365 299,376
1947 110,496 20,850 10 „ „ 63,717 25,929 325,305
Prom tax provision, £46,000 .. .. 371,305
1948 121,146 20,850 10 p.c.= 63,717 36,579 407,884
Share premiums, £156,389 .. ..564,273
From tax provision, £21,500 .. .. 585,773
1949 138,778 20,851 10 p.c.= 71,833 46,094 631,867
Largest thing of its kind in the Com-
monwealth, this big holding co. and its
two operating subsidiaries (Metiers, Ltd.,
Sydney, and Metiers K.F.B. Pty., Mel-
bourne) turn out a wide range of stoves
—the line on which the business grew up
—baths, gas-heaters, builders’ hardware,
enamel goods, radiators and other elec-
trical equipment from factories at Syd-
ney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth. An
associate, Metters (N.Z.), Ltd., operating
on the other side of the Tasman, paid
8 p.c. on its £64,937 of capital last term.
The fortunes of the group are thus
normally those of the building trade.
Last year 45,529 new houses and flats
were completed throughout the Common-
wealth, an increase of 26 p.c. on the previ-
ous year’s total. And since the output
of domestic appliances, etc., has to meet
replacement as well as new housing re-
quirements, employment was quickly
found for most of the £150,734 of new
capital and £156,389 of share premiums
gathered during the year. The new
money went into fixed assets (up £96,465),
stocks (up £66,621), book debts (up
£127,716) and cash, etc. (up £137,350):
General Industries and Subsidiaries.
1940. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital £935,041 £935,041 £935,041 £1,085,415
Creditors .. 132,808 137,582 207,416 179,400
Tax reserve 98,441 222,962 229,019 296,953
Staff fund.. 12,645 15,874' 20,000 25,000
Freeholds .. 314,176 342,620 363,213 412,317
Plant .. 400,119 433,656 483,092 530,453
Stocks 485,047 557,428 770,846 837,467
Book debts 242,875 164,488 198,895 326,611
Shares other
cos. .. 24,630 24,630 24,630 24,630
Cash .. 837 156,855 1,113 138,463
The jump in the more-or-less liquid sur-
plus (£825,818) was £286,769. The co.
is well equipped to further expand its
activities as labor, materials and indus-
trial conditions permit. Plant is efficient
and up to date, and that means much
provided it can run without interruption.
The contribution of the group to the
economic welfare of the Commonwealth
has been hampered by shortage of coal
and skilled tradesmen, power stoppages,
petty strikes and other economic vandal-
ism, which also needlessly pile up costs.
However, last year’s quickened tempo of
trade and turnover more than took care
of the sharp rise in costs, to which re-
current wage lifts and advancing price of
raw materials were the main contributors.
The board figured the net result £17,632
stronger at £138,778. That was after
making unspecified allowances for depre-
ciation, taxation and other contingencies
and dropping £3273 from somewhere in
to the insurance reserve (now £17,719),
but leaves out of the reckoning £21,500
transferred to reserves from previous
overprovisions for taxation. The £138,778
covered pref. requirements and 16.4 p.c.
on average ord. capital, compared with
15.7, 14, 11.7, 11.7, 10.8 and 12.1p.c.
back to 1943. The 10 p.c. div. —steady
at that level for the last seven years and
at 12f p.c. for the six years before that
—is worth only 4.9 p.c. on last year’s new
capital (owing to the stiff premium fixed
by capital-control authorities) and 6.5
p.c. on capital as it stood before 1934,
when 7s. 6d. was lopped off each ord.
share. Terms of the merger in 1927 had
involved a writing-up of the book-value
of assets.
Subject to industrial and other develop-
ments, including what happens in connec-
tion with wages and costs, the outlook
for the business is one of satisfactory
earnings for some years to come. The
general economic background is favorable
enough.
At 31s. 9d. (335. 9d. early in 1949) the
f.-p. 12s. 6d. ords. give an immediate re-
turn of 3.9 p.c. on a 10 p.c. div. basis.
The pound prefs. at 325. yield 4.3 p.c.
Net tangible cover is visibly £5 14s. lid.
prefs. and 225. 6d. ords.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1940.. 43,236 8 p.c. = 37,333 5,903 332,101
1941.. 37,736 64 „ ~ 37,708 28 332,129
1942.. 23,062 i\ „ ~28,125 327,066
1943.. 30,117 44 „ ~ 28,125 ) 9ns
Written off goodwill, £lB5O \
1944.. 29,496 44 p.c. =28,125 ) 171 „ 97 „ 7 q
Written off goodwill, £l2OO ) 1/1
1945.. 28,183 44 p.c. = 28,125 58 327,437
1946.. 28,452 44 „ ~ 28,125 ) 97 „ 97
Written off goodwill, £3OO j
1947.. 37,770 6 p.c. = 37,500- 270 827,734
4 H 95 i 129 327,863
Written off goodwill, £291 )
1949.. 64,109 10 p.c. = 62,500 ) , nQ „ 97 079
Writen off goodwill, £l5OO j J ' U9
For the most part Australia enjoyed
good seasonal conditions last year, wool-
growers got highest prices in the history
of the industry for an increased clip, and
livestock fetched fat figures, too. Those
at the selling end of the business —the
wool-broking, pastoral-finance, agency
and merchandising cos. —shared in the
prosperity, of course. Wool sold in Aus-
tralia for the 10 months to end April last
brought in £37,351,729 more than for
the corresponding period of the previous
season;
10 Mths. Av.
End Sold, Price
March, Bales. Proceeds. per lb.
1948 .. 2,453,186 £120,392,901 38.97 d.
1949 .. 2,525,234 157,744,682 50.75 d.
Increase in the average price per pound
was 30.2 p.c. Total proceeds to April 30
have already passed the previous record
£155,547,893 received for the full 1947-48
clip. . , ,
Younghusband’s, which opened three
new branches last term, making a total
of 32 (17 in Victoria and 15 in southern
N. S. Wales), sold an extra 37,289 bales:
Wool Sold, Gross Exes., p.c.
Bales. Profit. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1943 .. 96,212 212,666 182,547 85.8 p.c.
1945 .. 100,066 219,894 189,211 86.2 „
1946 . . 67,139 217,887 186,935 85.8 „
1947 . . 82,111 279,579 238,809 85.5 „
1948 . . 83,048 332,894 279,599 84 „
1949 . . 120,337 426,496 357,387 83.8 „
All sections of the business contributed
to the year’s improvement of £93,602 in
gross earnings, which were written after
providing for doubtful debts, etc. In-
cluding provision for depreciation
(£10,338, up £6111) and taxation (£29,750,
up £4250), exes, (up £77,788) were pro-
portionately a little lighter, thanks to the
bulge in turnover, which obscured the
rise in costs.
After dropping £5OOO into the staff
fund, the net amount available for share-
holders (£64,109, up £16,814) was 10.2
p.c. on capital as against 7.5, 6, 4.5 and
4.5 p.c. for the four preceding years. The
div. was lifted from 1\ p.c. to 8 p.c.,
to which a 2 p.c. bonus was added,
making 10 p.c. for the year. The
average distribution over the last decade
was 6 p.c., and for the 10 years before
that 7.9 p.c. The narrow margins be-
tween declared net earnings and distri-
butions suggest that the board has not
skimped the provision for contingencies.
The year’s addition of £31,683 to fixed
assets and contraction of £22,196 in the
more-or-less liquid surplus (£670,547) are
mainly on account of the new branches
already referred to:
1940. 1947. 1948. 1949.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £625,000 £625,000 £625,000
Creditors . . 693,"451 389,229 492,123 711,068
Tax reserve.. 14,295 19,000 25,500 29,750
Staff fund .. 3,000 6,000 5,000
Premises and
plant . . 212,855 269,378 288,244 319,927
Merchandise. . 6,555 18,042 39,860 88,367
Advances, etc. 1,331,433 1,082,188 1,008,704 860,339
Cash, etc. . . 9,005 16,230 167,802 467,659
The contraction of £148,365 in advances,
growth of £218,945 in the amount com-
ing to creditors (the item includes
amounts held in trust or on deposit for
clients) and of £299,857 in cash, etc., are
interrelated and reflect effects of the
season and prices.
Another good season is in prospect,
and wool prices, now about 10 p.c. below
recent peaks, mainly for fine types, are
still at highly profitable levels. How
long they will remain so is anybody’s
guess at the moment. Consumer resist-
ance and competition from other fibres
might bring further declines, but there
is no indication of an early collapse of
demand, especially for apparel wools, and
the statistical position of the staple con-
tinues to strengthen, thanks to heavy re-
duction of stocks held by J. 0., which
look like being exhausted before 1950
runs out. The possibility of competition
from Japanese and German mills, of
overexpansion of the textile industry in
the rest of Western Europe, and of other
economic and political developments ob-
scure the long-term outlook for wool.
The market sums up the position by
pricing the co.’s pound shares at 31s. 6d.
(345. a year ago), giving an immediate
return of 6.3 p.c. so long as the 10 p.c.
distribution continues, or 5.1 p.c. on an
8 p.c. div. basis. Cover is 30s. sd. in net
tangibles.
Placer Development, Ltd.
This big holding and prospecting
co., with headquarters at Vancouver
(Canada), claimed a profit of $437,018
and again paid 50 p.c. on its $789,545
of capital for the year to end April, 1948,
with prospects of better to come later
on. Including $122,134 transferred
from property inspection account to re-
serves, raising them to $8,618,105, profit
from all sources was $559,152, or 70.8
p.c. on capital. When the books closed


19 Help Solve Year Money Worries
RURAL BANK
Head Offices Martin Place, Sydney*
A personal, confidential service
is available at the Rural Bank
to those financially embarrassed.
Personal loans from £lO upwards
are made at a moderate rate of
interest with repayments spread
over a period of years. If you’re
troubled about money matters
and unexpected bills, come in
and talk it over*
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-class accommodation at a moderate tariff. Hot and
cold water and telephone in all rooms. Rooms with private Bath-
M
lIS
Hill:-
a «•«
*? in
nun it*
urn
IllH
H
,r
I
%»
-
rooms available. Meals
at moderate rates.
Spacious Wintergarden,
together with first-class
orchestra.
ROOM-ONLT RATES
Single Rooms—
From 8/- per night
Double Rooms—
From 15/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and
Wireless:
"METROPOLE /'
Sydney.
Telephones:
8W2061 (9 lines)
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attor-
neys, 422 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l.
Australian and Overseas Patents and
Trade Marks.—Advt.
For Sale.
FOR SALE, at Forster, North Coast,
Block of Four Choice Holiday Cottages at
this ever-growing holiday resort. Erected
two years ago, these cottages are fully
furnished and are nearly all booked 12
months ahead by previous satisfied tenants.
The property is fitted' with a permanent
supply of bore water, power-raised, also
tanks to each cottage. Each one has
ample accommodation for eight persons.
Bath, shower, fuel stove, linen, etc., and
are all in full tenancy at the present
time and for many months ahead. Two
minutes from lake. For all particulars
apply H. 0. McNAMARA, Douglas Avenue,
Forster.
1
TA
7a
I
i
w
y
%
K
- ';.'A.. - .Jj>.. ( , t
\siktk'*t'o%s
.*■ - • MAR* v '
saw
3&ai
iasr
sSp&
LLOYD’S OF LONDON
L the first 250 years
*** th nßrtl ,sH AT BLENHEIM
,704: MARLBOROUGH Al
The year Marlborough^%* d *deZTers
sion of French tnvinc House near
who frequented J becom i ng a power-
the London docks, r worW . From this
ful force m the „ of london the
— e organisation.
LiUMtiEY’S OF LLOYD’S: as insurance
BROKERS, LUMLEY’S OFFER A SPECIALISED ADVISORY
SERVICE THAT NO ONE CAN AFFORD TO IGNORE.
The intricacies of insurance hold many pitfalls,
and this free advisory service will assure that
the policy you obtain has the best possible
coverage and the most reasonable rates. Lumley’s
handle every form of insurance and, in addition
to the numerous policies of Lloyd’s of London,
can call upon the specialised policies of any
number of Underwriting experts. Take advan-
tage of LUMLEY’S FREE ADVISORY SERVICE in all
States of the Commonwealth.
EDWARD UJMLEY
& SONS PTV. LTD.
263 GEORGE ST., SYDNEY; 33 WATT ST„ NEWCASTLE
And all other States.
0
'V''
5!
f
27
■ v
typh
•/
y
€P
//
<2
N
NO
e>
fl
W
r
U L »
(W=^=-/^2_
TOOYI-rS K.B. LAGER—Brewed and bottled by
Tooth & Co. Limited, Makers of good beer since 1835.
shareholdings, which figure at
$4,464,804, consisted of the fol-
lowing :
Held—,,
Company and Place of Face
Operation. No. Value.
New Guinea —
Bulolo .. .. 150,000 $5
S, America —
Pato Consolidated .. 1,150,000 $1
Asnazu .. ... 615,000 $1
Nechi Consolidated.. 2,580,000 $1
United States —•
American Placer Inc. 633,995 $1
Placer Management .. 19,995 $1
A Butherglen Gold Dumps 32,000 £AI
Gold Dumps Pty. .. 60,000 £AI
A parcel of 25,000 Bulolo shares
has since been sold at $2l each
to help finance development of
the parent’s oil interests. Cash
and Canadian Government
securities totalled $1,507,022,
and loans to subsidiaries, mainly
on account of oil, $1,812,500.
There was only $1541 coming to
outsiders.
Pato (paid capital $3,200,000)
treated 14,853,000 c.y. of 23.93
cent dirt at an average cost of
13.17 cents and paid a 40 p.c.
div. A 57-days strike affected
results. There is 224,507,000
c.y. of 22.8 cent developed
ground and 79,079,000 c.y. of
19.5 cent partly developed ahead
of the dredge.
Asnazu (paid capital
$(,500,000), whose two machines
handled 6,388,800 c.y., averag-
ing only 13.04 cents, didn’t pay
a div. It has 12,245,000 c.y. of
21.1 cent and 29,682 c.y. of 10.4
cent ground measured up.
Nechi Consolidated (paid capi-
tal $5,000,000, of which Placer
now holds 40 p.c.) adjoins Pato
downstream on the Nechi River,
Colombia (S. America). Its
4,000,000-c.y.-p.a. dredge is due
to set-in any day now, subject to
arrival of final parts from U.S.
There is 204,000,000 c.y, of 16.4
cent dirt already measured up,
another 100,000,000 c.y. have
been partly drilled, and there are
large potential auriferous areas
yet to be tested. With the price
of gold and costs as they are,
profit margins promise to be
narrow ; much will therefore de-
pend upon the volume of
throughput.
Bulolo (paid capital
$5,000,000) got back onto the
dividend list again with $1 a
share in December last, and an
interim 50 cents a share is pay-
able to those on the register at
May 31. Co. now has its full
fleet of eight dredges at work
again, and, subject to movements
in wage and other costs, should
continue to give a satisfactory
account of itself. It has
111,797,000 c.y. of dredgeable
ground and 13,500,000 c.y. to be
handled by hydraulic equipment
later on. Prospects of finding
additional pay-dirt are not en-
couraging.
The new Coronet Oil Co.,
wholly owned by Placer through
American Placers, promises to
be a handy contributor. It has
already opened up three produc-
ing wells on its Andector leases,
Texas (U.S.), Maximum daily
flow is officially limited to 200
barrels per well, which is being
sold at $3 a barrel. After pay-
ment of royalties, etc., each well
is expected to return Placer
about $lOO,OOO p.a,, and at 200
barrels a day may have a life of
up to 15 years or more. Cost
(some $125,000, of which Placer
pays $78,000) should be re-
covered in the first ten months
or thereabouts. And there is the
possibility of opening up more
payable wells. Altogether four
oil-bearing strata have been met
with.
Canadian Exploration, another
offshoot of American Placers, is
profitably working a tungsten-
mipe in British Columbia, and
recently began treatment of a
lead-zinc ore-body about 40ft.
thick, averaging 2.9 p.c. lead and
8.8 p.c. zinc. Here satisfactory
profits will depend largely on
high metal prices.
Placer’s Australian interests,
which are concerned with treat-
ment of slum dumps at Bendigo
(Vic.), are profitable but not
large contributors to the pool.
Expectations in connection
with oil sent the market for
Placer’s dollar shares as high as
£AI4 in 1948. Recently the scrip
changed hands at £A6 15s.
British manufacturers and
the British public are now ex-
periencing the disadvantage of
Government bulk-buying on a
falling market. Though cuts
have been made by the British
Ministry of Supply in the price
of base metals following reduc-
tions in American prices, Lon-
don prices were still above New
York levels last week-end, as
the following comparison
shows;
New
London, York, Difference,
Metal. Ton. Ton. Ton.
Stg. Stg. Stg.
Lead £95 £7B £l7
Zinc .. 85 66| 18 k
Copper* 180 IOOj 29|
* Electrolytic.
In terms of sterling the New
York price of lead has dropped
by about £42 and the British
price by £2B a ton since the end
of March. In the absence of a
rise in New York prices further
adjustment of London prices can
be expected. Meanwhile, British
manufacturers are at a disad-
vantage compared with foreign
competitors. The British Gov-
ernment is being urged to reopen
the London Metal Exchange,
and there are sound reasons why
it should accede to the request.
♦ ♦ * *
Failure of the Federal Gov-
ernment to grant assistance to
all gold-producers, or permit
sales of the metal in free mar-
kets, and its refusal to authorise
importation of mechanical load-
ing equipment from U.S., are
reflected! in a continued down-
ward trend of production which
the promise of meagre assistance
to certain marginal producers
has failed to arrest. In 1948
Westralian production dropped
to 662,741 fine ounces and
dividends paid to £836,937 ;
corresponding figures for 1947
were 701,752 fine ounces and
£894,085. Over 61 p.c. of last
year’s output came from six
mines. Lake View and Star
(137,500 fine ounces) was again
premier producer, followed by
Great Boulder (81,4570 z.), North
Kalgoorlie -(56,8040z.), Big Bell
(51,7700 z.), G.M. of Kalgoorlie
(40,4120 z.) and Central Norse-
man (39,1500 z.). Highest yield
came from Mountain View,
which won 57980 z. from 1395
tons, an average of nearly 4joz.
a ton. Those mines whose ore
reserves contain rich patches
that can be used as sweeteners
will fare best under existing
conditions.


A Perfectly m Balanced Wine
Kantiho
A
I
PROTECT
YOUR
ASSETS
On today’s values are you
properly covered? Now is
the time to review your
insurances. Serious financial
losses can result on private
and business premises that
are improperly protected.
Consult
Queensland
Insurance Co. Ltd.
80-82 Pitt Street, Sydney.
62 YEARS OF SERVICE
TO THE AUSTRALIAN PUBLIC
To safeguard the welfare
of your dependents
A simple procedure
1. Make a list of your Assets and your Liabilities—
and of those whom you wish to share in your
Estate. *
2. Confer with a Senior Officer of Perpetual
Trustee Company Limited and make a sound
plan for your Estate so that your dependents
shall receive the maximum benefit.
3. Have your Solicitor draw your Will so that it
embodies this plan.
4. Appoint Perpetual Trustee Company Limited as
your sole Executor—or jointly with a relative
or friend. The Company’s 62 years’ experience
and its facilities will ensure efficient management
of your Estate —when it is called upon to act.
The services offered by the Company—and its
charges are explained in a booklet, “Your Executor
and Trusteewhich has been found most helpful
by many men (and women ) with Estates to. bequeath.
Call or write for a copy today.
PERPETUAL
Trustee Company Limited
EXECUTOR AND TRUSTEE
AGENT UNDER' POWER OP
ATTORNEY FOR ABSENTEES
& OTHERS. ADMINISTRATOR,
ETC.
•
TRUST AND AGENCY FUNDS
UNDER ' ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £67,000,000’ (the
average Estate being less than
£10,000).
Directors:
Hon. T. A. J. PLAYFAIR, M.L.C.,
Chairman;
E. K. KNOX; ALLEN a LEWIS;
Hon. J. P. ABBOTT.
D. R. LTSAGHT;
SAMUEL HORDERN;
H. V. DOUGLASS,
Managing Director.
A. O. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
OFFICES AT WAOGA WAGCA. TAMWORTH and ORANGE
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Plan for Production!
It is to be hoped that, some-
where in Australia, someone is
planning for the days when the
country will become energeti-
cally productive again and not
ashamed to admire hard work
and to sanction the profit
motive. We can accept it that
there will be a change in the in-
dustrial attitude before very
long. Australians, however
foolish they have been in the
past, are not going to sit idly
by and watch the future of
themselves and their children
ruined simply because industry
is being so starved of fuel, raw
materials and the services of
labor that the real standard of
living of the community is in
danger of dropping to*the coolie
level.
The danger has been greater
than is generally realised. While
output per employed person has
been falling during the period of
the Socialist-cwmTCommunist jag,
consumption per person has
tended to increase in the case of
many commodities and services
because of the inflated apparent
incomes of wage-earners; and,
as one very obvious result, out-
lay on capital goods has been
inadequate. In other words, the
machinery of production has not
been built up in proportion to
consumption, consumer goods
engaging the energies of pro-
ducers and the Communist-
dominated unions seeing to it
that output of capital goods—
and the means to make capital
goods—has been restricted in
every possible way. And the
Federal Government’s Budgets
have forced the national income
away from investors and more
to consumers, discouraging thrift
in the process.
Australian industry is, in some
broad patches, in a run-down
condition today. This is
especially noticeable in the Gov-
ernment transport services,
which are so vital a factor in
the shifting of our inland pro-
duction. Shipping services are
also inadequate, but partly so be-
cause of the'labor factor on the
wharves —the turn-round of ves-
sels has reduced each vessel’s
cargo - shifting capacity very
considerably. And many indus-
tries which were efficient 10
years ago are now finding the
going hard as plant needs re-
placing or modernising. Depre-
ciation allowances in the past
have not been enough to cover
the present high cost of plant,
and new plant, as well as spare
parts, are often unobtainable
anyway.
The worst bottleneck, of
course, exists in the coalmining
industry. Calculatingly and de-
liberately, the Communist party
has up to now succeeded in its
aim of starving Australian in-
dustry of coal, and all produc-
tion has suffered, as well as the
creation of electric power.
Homebuilding has been held
back by this lack of coal, steel
and dependent materials, and
further direct action by Com-
munists in the brickmaking in-
dustry has increased the squeeze
in the building trades. The
Federal “Labor” Government
and State “Labor” Governments
are scared to deal with this Com-
munist onslaught.
But the whole thing seems to
be working its own cure. Sir
Stafford Cripps has been forced
to tell British Socialist sup-
porters, in effect, that’there is
nothing left in the kitty to dis-
tribute a§ “extras” to the wage-
earner unless the wage-earner
himself puts more into the kitty.
Even the British social-services
plan is in danger. And Britain
is feeling the need for re-equip-
ment of the country with capital'
goods just as keenly as Aus-
tralia is.
Socialist Governments for
several years have been buying
popularity with voters by
squandering the value of past
national investments in capital
goods, whether these invest-
ments are owned publicly or are
the fruits of private thrift. The
period of reinvestment cannot
be much longer delayed; but
the longer it is delayed the
harder the pinch will be. And
if Australia is long behind other
countries in recovering a full-
production potential—that is, in
supplying itself with the tools
and know-how of production—
the situation will express itself
“I'd like a Word with old Fogarty—l'm after renewin' me
ninety-nine-year lease.”
in harsh trading disadvantages
that will not be overcome except
by people working hard enough
to make up the arrears of past
spendthrift years.
All this record of weakness,
foolishness and trade - union
lethargy and cupidity is evidence
which gives support to the con-
tention that Australia must get
its plans ready for a return to
economic commonsense. The
wage-earning community is due
for a change of heart —prompted
less perhaps by a sense of eco-
nomic'justice than by a feeling of
acute economic discomfort that
only closer co-operation as an
economic community of working
Australians will overcome. We
will come back to the principle
that an honest day’s work is best
for everyone, including the
worker, if for no more altruistic
reason than that of the elderly
grocer who instructed his son:
“Honesty is the best policy, my
boy ; I’ve tried both.”
Prices, Costs and Profits
Chopping profit-margins, the
new sport of price-control in
N.Z., is getting under the skin
of business. Every branch of
trade seems to have had its share
of bruises, cuts or knocks, or to
be threatened, until slimming of
profits is now fairly general in
Maoriland. President J. R.
Dench, of M.L.’s Associated
Chambers of Commerce, in a
roar of protest at the annual con-
ference, called “Halt,” and
warned that if control persisted
in its chase after profits there
might soon be something to
reckon with in unemployment.
“The standard of living of
everyone depends on the capa-
city of business to pay its way,”
said Dench. He might have
bracketed farmers with business,
because they’re in the same boat
and are just as certain to go to
the wall if they can’t earn a de-
cent living. Till lately firms
could counter control by lifting
turnover, but since sales began
to tip downward early this year
most have had no escape.
“Initiative and enterprise, the
driving forces of real progress
and development, are frus-
trated,” declared Dench.
So business isn’t enjoying the
fun as trade slows down and
profits shrink. Foodstuffs, soft-
goOds, hardware, footwear, other
kinds of wear, household goods
and furniture are all sitting shots
for the Price Division, and
about the only section of trade
that seems to be on clover is
drugs and medicine, where M.L,
continues to pour out tax funds
under its big misnamed “health”
scheme. Control is carried away
by the bright idea that every-
thing in business can be reduced
to average and all firms made to
toe one line, with the go-ahead,
the easygoing, the efficient and
the stragglers in industry and
trade all on the same profit level.
There’s no incentive where triers
are robbed of extra reward for
extra effort and anything above
average profits and divs, sets
price-inspectors on the scent.
Profits are always fair game,
thinks officialdom, but sooner or
later this will bring a clash be-
tween price-control and the tax
commissioner as paring of price-
margins threatens to kill the
goose that lays the golden eggs.
Wavering profits today are the
red light before tax revenue
drops.
Exports have topped £l4B
million for the latest year
(ended December 31), and the
understructure of prosperity still
looks strong. The Dominion’s
three big money-makers are
dairy produce £47 million, wool
£44i million 'and meat (with tal-
low, hides and skins) £43£ mil-
lion. But now declining world
prices pose problems which
M.L. Labor - Socialists gloss
over as they predict several
more good years for the coun-
try, for M.L. is in the same boat
as John Bull, who has a big
hurdle ahead in rising world
competition while production
costs stubbornly resist all efforts
to get them down. If J.B. can’t
do better the gap between ex-
ports and imports will be un-
bridgeable, and dollars will be
tighter than ever for all in the
sterling camp.
British exports for April were
£22\ million sterling lower than
for March,’ and the adverse bal-
ance was the greatest for 12
months. Canadian exports for
March were lower than in
March, 1948. The Canadian
quarterly total (Jan.-Mar.) was
$658 million for the present
year, compared with $672 mil-
lion for the first quarter of 1948.
Combined with reports of sur-
plus production in some U.S. in-
dustries and the fall in lead, zinc,
copper and wheat prices, a re-
turn to more competitive world
trading is indicated. Australia
is partly cushioned for the time
being by the sustained demand
for wool.


MERCANTILE MUTUAL
INSURANCE CO. LTD.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT
AN AUSTRALIAN INSURANCE COMPANY
Established 1818
Head Office: 117 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
DIRECTORS:
C. C. GALE (Chairman). F. W. RADFORD (Vice-Chairman).
STRITAN ROBERTSON. ALLEN 0. LEWIS. NORMAN FRAZER.
A. C. MAITLAND, Managing Director. CECIL MANION, General Manager.
Branches in all States Agencies in all Country Centres
!The
Union Bank
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
( Incorporated in England )
is the
tralitional policy
of the Union, (Sank
to yive
a( Service to
person,
every customer.
Of
A U
ESTABLISHED 1837
Branches throughout Australia and New Zealand
You'll travel
lighter with
GLOBITE
1 TEA VEL C A SES
Stronger,
smarter,
longer-lasflngl
mm Mfmem
The best is worth waiting for . . .
EH
M
mum.
m
;;;;;r3T^wwwwyp
Holden is well worth waiting for it is the one
car that has been designed and planned for
Australia, to suit the requirements of the average
Australian driver.
If you’re wanting a car that gives you 5-6 seater
roominess without unnecessary bulk, overhead
valve 6-cylinder engine for brilliant performance
plus real petrol economy, independent front wheel
springing, and modem styling that’s smart without
being extreme then you’ll be wanting a Holden.
You will probably have to wait a while, but Holden
is well worth waiting for. Production is increas-
ing every month. From seven per day in December
to twenty-two per day in March and by the end
of this year, the target is a daily production of
eighty.
If’s a wise move to wait for a new Holden rather
than accept any other car which gives you less
value-for-money.
Place your order and keep in touch with your
Holden Distributor or Dealer. He will give you
his best estimate on delivery date.
★ “Air Chief ” Radios are especially designed for
Holden. Air Chief b-valve with a 6-inch speaker,
or Air Chief 6-valve with an 8-inch speaker.
The best is worth waiting for and the best is
»»)»?»»)»>?»)»»»») HOLDEN 'itmm <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<«
Australia's Own Car
Convenient terms are available through G.M.A.C,, General Motors’ own hire-purchase company,
GENERAL MOTORS - H OLDEN'S LTD.
BRISBANE . SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . ADELAIDE . PERTH
GENERAL MOTOKS-HOLDEN’S LIMITED • Sold and Serviced by Holden Dealers throughout Australia.
LONDON AIRMAIL
From Herbert Holman
These islands are faced with
the prospect of a serious drought.
Winter was mild and fairly dry,
spring came prematurely, and
April, treacherously hot and
cold in turn, withheld her pro-
verbial showers. If an arid
summer should follow the crops
and the water-supply may be
jeopardised.
It is tulip-time everywhere.
Gardens, parks and even win-
dow-boxes are nodding with
blooms of many colors. Winds
are strong, perhaps too strong,
and so is the old seasonal fear
that frosts in May will nip the
buds and spoil the fruit-crop.
Considering that tulips cost up
to 4s. 6d. a dozen in florists’
shops, Hammersmith certainly
deserves credit for the honesty
of its citizens. The Town Hall
approach fronts to a main road,
is not enclosed and has no visible
custodian. Yet of the 300 or so
tulips there not one has been
stolen.
With the overlap of winter
and summer games, the world
of sport has double prominence.
Successive invasions from Scot-
land and the Midlands have
swooped upon London with
hard-won tickets for the Soccer
International and Cup Final.
The cricket season has begun
and the talk is of New Zealand.
Those wise and hardened critics,
the Yorkshiremen, have studied
the stroke play of another
Sutcliffe and his venerated
namesake among them —have
pronounced favorable judgment.
Periodicals are expanding in
size, thanks to a relaxation of
newsprint control. The “Times”
has spread itself out over 10
pages, and the better Sunday
papers have modified their lay-
out, giving more space to literary
and cultural features. A wel-
come sign for a country that has
suffered a print famine for too
long.
The 15-year meat agreement
between Australia and Britain
has brought the outback into the
news. Some journals have been
quick to make use of its topi-
cality with informative articles,
introducing words that are rarely
heard in the Mother Country.
Walkabouts, brumbies, dingos,
tucker and corroborees have
been noticed, as well as the
familiar overlander and billa-
bong. One word that has not
been seen is “jackeroo,” which
seems surprising, since the out-
back can hardly be overstaffed.
May Day and Mayhem
Because of recent Communist-
Fascist disturbances in the East
End the Government, with the
full support of both sides of the
House of Commons, has banned
political processions. Public
opinion demanded no less. It
realised that the Socialist “faith-
ful” would have to sacrifice their
traditional May-morning parades
for the sake of law and order.
But what matter? With a Labor
Government in office since 1945
most Britains are not very re-
sponsive to political crusades.
It was unfortunate for the
authorities that May Day fell on
a Sunday, for it gave the Com-
munist stooges, rallied under the
high-sounding zegis of the Lon-
don Trades Council, full scope
for a violent and neurotic
demonstration. The “Daily
Worker” characteristically re-
marked: “The British workers,
who won the war, were not free
to march in London. The main
reason for this extraordinary
position was that the Govern-
ment endorsed the Home Secre-
tary’s mean act of revenge
against the London working-
class movement.”
Britons have long been toler-
ant of Communist manifesta-
tions, which they have looked
upon as eccentric but innocuous
exhibitionism. Free speech and
freedom of thought are still
highly valued; so much so that
an important chain-store has
been widely criticised for dis-
criminating against employees
who are Communists. And that
doesn’t mean that the critics are
fellow-travellers. The protests
are made against a commercial
firm dictating political views to
its employees.
That is a different kind of
tolerance. There are, in fact,
signs that the patience of the
general public is giving out. Mr.
Harry Pollitt, general secretary
of the Communist party, had
some uncomfortable moments in
the Plymouth district at the
time of the Yangtze incident.
He escaped from hostile crowds
only under police protection and
by the ignominy of a back-door
exit.
Because they are justifiably
weary of strife and have plenty
of cares of their own, British
people seek only the quiet life.
They are somewhat perplexed
that others should seek to foment
disorder. But beneath the sur-
face of their resigned tolerance
there’s still a keen temper. The
tradition and symbolism that the
Royal Navy exerts over British
life were pricked by the Ame-
thyst casualties of Moscow ag-
gression. Mr. Pollitt’s plausible
oratory and engaging platform
manner held no sway over his
West Country audiences, who
have long seafaring connections.
Empty Drum?
The May-Day demonstrations
in Trafalgar-square were also
noticeable for the angry reac-
tion among the crowd, many of
whom certainly didn’t go to
make trouble. Since the Prague
coup opinion has hardened pro-
gressively against Communism.
The well-established methods of
infiltration and the party’s tactics
have been outlined in the Press.
The leaders are now well known,
even to the public.
The flamboyant aggressiveness
of the leading figures seems to
suggest that their much-boosted
adroitness may, in fact, be some-
thing of an exaggeration. For,
even in working-class districts.
Communist speakers don’t get
the sympathetic hearing that they
once enjoyed; and agitators
have to explain away their
political color before they can
hope to arouse the interest of
their audience. Their election
record is bad.
That they—including the sup-
posed master-minds who plot be-
hind the scenes —should choose
to come out into the open and
risk throwing away their deposits
in the general election of next
year is all the more surprising.
The expected strategy would
seem to have been more insidi-
ous burrowing underground and
a Carefully worked-out plan of
masquerading under other colors.
Perhaps, having their model
State always in mind, they over-
look the fact that public opinion
in Britain is still a powerful
arbiter.
Still Scoring
In sounding a fanfare to Sir
Thomas Beecham on his 70th
birthday, musical London merely
acted as herald for the rest of
the civilised world. Congratu-
latory messages, from Sibelius
and Richard Strauss among
others, had been flowing in for
some days before the birthday
luncheon on the Friday and the
“Daily Telegraph” concert at
the Albert Hall the following
Monday.
Like Beethoven, Sir Thomas
may not always have laid great
store upon tact, either in expres-
sing goodwill or as a social ac-
complishment, and there are
places where his ready wit was
marked for its sting rather than
for its warmth. But this eccen-
tricity of genius, or outspoken-
ness, or downright rudeness—
entirely according to the indi-
vidual point of view—was best
taken with tongue in cheek.
Again as with Beethoven, in per-
formance there was full atone-
ment.
Orchestral players say that the
once-fearsome Tommy has mel-
lowed and that his tongue is
more kindly. He rarely holds up
a concert to take the audience
caustically into his confidence;
the verbal pungency is missed.
Besides concert performances,
with frequent -journeys in be-
tween, Sir Thomas works hard
in the recording studio, giving
his experience and aesthetic sense
to the cause of needed dollars as
well as art. He has no intention
of laying down his baton or of
resting on his laurels and avoid-
ing difficult works. Like most
controversialists, he is not
always consistent. For instance,
while his opinion of some of the
more tuneful of the standard
works is pointed as ever, he oc-
casionally conducts them in the
suburbs. Perhaps the greatest
contradiction of all is that “Das
Land Ohne Musik,” whose ab-
sence of taste and mediocrity of
performance he criticises so
forcibly, should have him for
one of her sons.
Lady Beecham’s birthday pre-
sent indicates that he doesn’t in-
tend to fall into senility: it is
the Encyclopaedia Britannica in
24 volumes. Sir Thomas has
affirmed that he intends to read
every word.


your dependants look to to make the wisest choice
Yonr choice of an Executor and Trustee is a decision which directly
affects the welfare of your dependants. Your Trustee should be
chosen for his business knowledge, integrity, experience, perma-
nence and financial stability, otherwise you may imperil your
family’s inheritance. An executor should not be selected on
grounds of sentiment or affection. Avoid all risks by appointing the
Permanent Trustee Company. You can then be assured of expert
administration of your affairs, combined with absolute security and
safety.
Why not call and discuss this matter further with one of our
Executive Officers? Or write for free booklet, “Trust Estates and
Their Management.”
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond, Chairman
F. H, Way, Vice-Chairman
Cecil H. Doyle F. W. Hixson, 0.8.EV.D,
G. Moncrieff Barron, M.B.ChM., F.R.A.CJS.
I, R. Faviell
Manager'. N. L. Shato
Asst. Manager'. C. N. P. Whittle Sub Manager: S. U. White
Secretary: F. R. Garland
23*25 O'CONNELL STREET
j
SYDNEY. NEW SOUTH WALES
rt.tt.ii
UNCABLES
ADDITIONS
EAST-WEST MEETING.
While practically all agree
that the Berlin air-lift success
was both the most surprising and
the most impressive defeat the
Kremlin has so far suffered in
the “cold war,” few overseas
commentators are at all opti-
mistic regarding the consequent
East-West meeting.
A fair summing-up of the
cautious comments of scores of
them is that they have all been
bitten far too often. The out-
standing note is a deep suspicion.
As a very widely representa-
tive example, Scripps-Howard
foreign editor William Philip
Simms, noting that “no one
seems optimistic enough to ex-
pect an early settlement” of the
German issue, speculates these
reasons for caution;
“First, a general European
peace appears to be the last
thing Russia wants, her protesta-
tions to the contrary notwith-
standing. Political and economic
chaos has been her most effective
weapon.
“Second, while Russia will
urge a unified Germany under a
single Government in Berlin, she
will veto any properly supervised
national elections indispensable
to such a Government.
“Third, Russia will insist on
withdrawal of all occupation
forces, but in a manner which
would leave Soviet-trained and
indoctrinated military and police
organisations in actual control of
the country.
“Fourth, Russia will demand
a free hand for the Communist
party in Germany and a full
share in the federal Government
in Berlin. This could be ex-
pected to lead to the early trans-
formation of Germany into
another Poland or Czechoslo-
vakia.
“To diplomats familiar with
past East-West negotiations,”
Simms adds, “it is too much to
expect Russia suddenly to agree
to a democratic, free Germany
now or in the near future. Com-
pletely free, nationwide elec-
tions, it is reliably reported,
would disclose not more than 10
or 15 per cent, of the popula-
tion favorable to the Com-
munists. Few believe Russia
has the slightest intention to per-
mit any such demonstration of
weakness.
“Russia, however, has much
to gain and nothing to lose by
the present move. For her, the
Berlin blockade has proved to
be a terrific boomerang. It gave
rise to the air-lift, a show of
Allied power which astonished
the world. And the counter-
blockade imposed by the Allies
has hurt Russia and her satellites
far more than the Berlin block-
ade hurt the West.”
For .another reason the East-
West meeting is held to be worth
virtually any price Russia might
be called upon to pay; “Russia
needs a new forum for her
propaganda. Delegates at the
U.N, now yawn when Soviet
spokesmen bellow at Uncle Sam
and the West as warmongers.
And such hoaxes as the recent
‘peace’ gatherings in New York
and Paris are altogether too
transparent.” The Foreign
Ministers’ conference provides
“a new and timely sounding-
board for the Kremlin’s drive
against the Atlantic Pact, further
Marshall-Plan aid, U.S. national
defence programme and the
strengthening of Europe.
“Washington rightly is favor-
ably disposed toward meeting
Moscow halfway. Officialdom
appears pleased over the new
turn. The West should now be
able to find out, once and for
all, just how sincere Russia really
is about peace.”
No-war Forecasts.
Paul G. Hoffman, American
head of the European Economic
Co-operation Administration,
sees a passably cloudless sky
showing up in the crystal-ball,
with only one “if,” and it seems
quite assured:
“If we stick together and work
together,” he told a gathering
of American editors, “there won’t
be a third world war.”
Mr. Truman has been exuding
his characteristic confidence on
the same theme, declaring that
“peace is sure within two years,”
that by that time “380,000,000
Europeans will be able to face
the future without fear of a con-
flict between Russia and the
West.”
On that utterance “Christian
Science Monitor,” in effect, com-
ments that maybe the President
is right; he has unusual oppor-
tunities for obtaining informa-
tion on which to base his confi-
dence ; but just what does he
mean by “peace”? Does he
mean an “armed truce”?:
“There is evidence that the
world has become a slightly more
stable place since the policy of
matching Russian power has
been adopted. We cannot be
as sure as the President that
even the kind of peace repre-
sented in an armed truce can be
assured in two years. And surely
it is not an ideal answer. Even
though we may feel that a bal-
ance of power is the immediate
road to peace, such balances are
precarious. Nor can we be
complacent about the amount of
hateful thinking current today.
Some of it, induced by fear,
should be relieved by a greater
sense of security. But while fear
is lessened, progress on the road
to real peace also requires both
improvement of such machinery
as the United Nations and more
active building toward a brother-
hood which would preclude
war.”
Selling Gets Harder.
Taking a general view of
present world trade, “U.S, News
and World Report” finds that the
selling of things is having trouble
in keeping up with production,
which, in general terms, is now
probably very close to the pre-
war level. On the other hand,
world trade — : the actual selling
—may be only three-quarters ot
what it was.
“Countries depending heavily
on selling to others are beginning
to find the going a little rougher.
Most products just don’t sell
themselves any more. Either
production or price has to be
cut.” *
The publication gives the fol-
lowing representative examples:
British automobiles are not
selling in overseas markets the
way they did. Automobile ex-
ports showed a sharp dip in Feb-
ruary, Prices of British cars in
the U.S. are being cut, follow-
ing the lead of American manu-
facturers,
Belgian textiles are not selling
well to neighbors. Mills have
cut production. Belgian steel
faces the same problem, as the
steel situation eases.
Swedish timber products are
being cut in price. This is an
attempt to hold important British
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune
"SHE SAYS SHE MUST HAVE ARMS!”
and U.S. markets. Canada wants
the Swedish business.
Polish coal is available to
Western Europe in greater quan-
tities than can be absorbed. Both
German production and British
production are climbing.
Cuban sugar, in large quan-
tities, is finding no buyers.
Argentina’s storage bins are
overflowing with wheat, corn,
hides, linseed oil. Argentine
price-plateau puts these things
out of reach.
The U.S., too, soon won’t
know what to do with all the
grain, cotton, fats and oils on
hand. Grain exports to Mar-
shall-Plan countries may be
higher than expected if rainfall
in Western Europe is not plenti-
ful during the present growing
season. Nevertheless, the U.S.
Government obviously is going
to be saddled with major sur-
pluses, barring a weather dis-
aster in the U.S. this summer.
“Pre-war era of surpluses in
many lines,” the survey con-
cludes, “is rapidly returning.
That’s good news for consumers,
but not as good as it might be.
For midnight-oil is being burned
in capitals to figure out ways of
keeping surpluses from having
their full effect on the market-
place.” -
Irish Indeed.
On the Irish side of the half-
and-half structure to which the
British Commonwealth archi-
tects, or jerrybuilders, lately-
added another detached back-
verandah, Washington “Post”
has commented:
“If the Irish in England were
still to retain English rights in
England the solution would be
Irish indeed. But there are so
many curiosities in the Irish-
English relation that one more
would not seem unduly surpris-
ing. Even though Eire did not
join England in the war the fact
is proudly proclaimed among
the people of the new Republic
that they contributed more per
thousand of population to the
British fighting forces than
Northern Ireland! ”
Interesting points are being
threshed out in the London
“Times” correspondence
columns, particularly touching
on future citizenship of Irish in
Britain. The thorniest question
is that of compulsory military
service, regarding which it’s easy
to imagine how, in a war, British
parents would react to their sons
being conscripted and sent to
fight while Irish-born living in
Britain were not called up—the
conscripts themselves would also
have something to say. If noth-
ing else, the first casualty-list
would force action.
On that aspect one “Times”
correspondent asks should a sub-
ject of the new Republic who
refuses to make a declaration of
allegiance to the constitutional
Government of the United King-
dom have a voice in electing any
part of that Government, or hold
under it a post the duties of
which may conflict with his obli-
gations as a citizen of the Irish
Republic.
The same writer instances “the
position in case of war of an
officer in the British forces who
is not a subject of the King but
of a State which may remain
neutral and carry out its duties
as such by recalling its subjects
serving as officers in belligerent
forces.”
Then there is the question of
exactly who are Eire citizens.
This is raised in a reply to
Bernard Shaw, who had written :
“I am now a political nobody,
subject to nameless penalties if
I attend the meetings of the
parish council of the village
where I have resided and paid
taxes for 40 years. Of my 93
years 70 have been spent in Eng-
land. My many political activi-
ties have been occupied with
English questions, never with
specifically Irish ones, I am a
Freeman of the City of London.
But I am also an Irishman,
honorary Freeman of the City of
Dublin, and registered as a citi-
zen of the former Irish Free
State. Net result as aforesaid,
I am a political nobody.
“May I suggest that aliens re-
siding permanently within the
Commonwealth shall, under a
new category of Guest Citizens,
enjoy all the rights and privi-
leges and bear all the responsi-
bilities of natives? This could
be extended to any international
combination ; but its application
to Ireland (and perhaps India) is
urgent.”
That brought the following
reply from John Ormsby;
“Mr. Bernard Shaw was born
in the United Kingdom and, it
would seem.. . .has always re-
sided in the United Kingdom.
Can he, then, have ceased to be
a United Kingdom subject, ex-
cept by deliberate action on his
own part? This is a question of
considerable interest, as there
must be many thousands resid-
ing in Great Britain or Northern
Ireland who regard themselves
as United Kingdom nationals
because they were born in
Southern Ireland before it ceased
to be part of the United King-
dom.
“If, however, as Mr. Shaw’s
letter seems to suggest, he is now
in fact an alien, but wishes to
become a British subject again,
is it not open to him to apply
for a certificate of naturalisa-
tion? I think that this would
be preferable to the nebulosity
and doubtful international status
of ‘guest citizenship’.”
Television v. Radio.
In an article in the American
publication “Look,” Merlin H.
Aylesworth, first president of
the National Broadcasting Com-
pany, predicts that within three
years the broadcasting of sound-
radio over the big U.S. networks
will have been wiped out, and
powerful television networks
will take its place.
Aylesworth takes his peep into
the crystal-ball in the light of
the following facts:
Today 1,600,000 American
homes have television sets.
By the end of this year
4,000,000 U.S. homes will have
television—and this is only the
second year of sets-distribution
on a big scale.
Already television “reaches by
coaxial cable from New York
to Chicago and St. Louis; and
a coaxial cable will reach the
West Coast next year.”
“Television sets,” the U.S.
authority further states, “are not,
as most of us might think,
luxuries that only people with big
incomes can afford.” Of the
600,000 or more television sets
in the New York metropolitan


' "w.
Z&fltJ 111
f\ * ,
t
Wr
/y
y'k
m
m
m
W
jxs**
m P.A
<rs~ir
A'a
.V**
! il
aas
S’ jl
i u
ill
' [2^B
zs
wm
• v a>xv--. ■ ~
IT WAS A THRILL
While it lasted!
IT lasted exactly 30 seconds. He knew better than to pass on a curve—but
he did ... at 50. A timber trailer was coming the other way. It was too heavy
to dodge him. He was too fast to dodge it. The car also crashed. One
dead and three injured. A heavy price for one man’s recklessness. Don’t
follow his example. Observe all traffic laws. Drive carefully. Ride care-
fully. When in doubt. . . brake it down.
DEATH IS SO P
ĵ
ISSUED BY THE AUSTRALIAN ROAD SAFETY COUNCIL
(Administered by the Commonwealth Department of Transport)
R.S.V. 28.83.4.
There are times which zl
call for something better than the
merely very good, and demand the
unquestionable best, Where ‘ J~ l
cigarettes are concerned the man
of taste is guided by the
words 66 Benson & Hedges 9
Old Bond Street , London 99 . From
this famous address comes fine
tobacco perfection to satisfy all those
occasions when only the best will do.
'Z/t
m
ass'
555? 5 *
IT
In
tins of 1
3/-
BY APPOINTMENT
TOBACCONISTS TO
HIS MAJESTY THE KINO
SUPER VIRGINIA CIGARETTES
BY.
EmsoN mj Hedges
OLD BOND STREET, LONDON
area and New Jersey, “51 per
cent, are installed in homes of
people in the two lower-income
brackets; fully 20 per cent, are
in homes that don’t even have
telephones.”
Arms for Europe.
The arms Europe wants for
putting teeth into the Atlantic
Pact will not be lent by the U.S.,
but will be given as a grant; and
if a considerable weight of
opinion in Congress has its way
the cost will be a subtraction
from Marshall-Plan money.
There will, according to a re-
port in N. Y. “Times,” be cer-
tain reasonable-looking strings
to the gift. The U.S. “will in-
sist; (a) that the arms given
cannot be used outside the
North Atlantic area ; ( b ) that
they cannot be used to replace
equivalent arms for use outside
the North Atlantic area, and (c)
that they cannot be transferred
in any way to other countries.”
A “Christian Science Monitor”
report describes the first-year
estimate a§ surprisingly modest
at some $500,000,000-worth.
Canadian Complaint.
Canadian Exporters’ Associa-
tion g.m. John A. Marsh, stat-
ing in an address in Toronto
that “one-half of the world, led
by Sir Stafford Cripps, has
moved back the clock of pro-
gress by barter trading or State
trading,” went on to express
views representative of much
Canadian feeling over the effects
on Canada of Britain’s recovery-
trading ;
“Curiously enough, Britain
has, up through the years,
preached a doctrine of freer
trade. She still is giving lip-
service to it,’ but actually is prac-
tising the opposite, as instanced
by the 30 or more bilateral deals
with countries of northern
Europe on a barter basis.
“Buying Swedish newsprint at
$l7l a ton when she could buy
it from Canada for less than
$lOO just does not make sense,
even though in return she is
charging Sweden one-and-three-
quarter times as much for
finished products as the competi-
tive market would justify in
Canada.
“This course is driving the
pound sterling and the dollar, be
it Canadian or American, farther
and farther apart instead of
bringing them closer together.
“Britain’s present fiscal policy
will keep the pound and the dol-
lar apart for 10 years.”
Referring to “other parts of
the Commonwealth and Empire
within the sterling area reducing
their dollar purchases to con-
form with the dollar supply of
the area,” Mr. Marsh added:
“Is there any reason why
our Canadian Government can-
not enter direct negotiations with
Australia, New Zealand, South
Africa, Pakistan, India, Ceylon
without recourse to the Chan-
cellor of the Exchequer of the
United Kingdom or the Colonial
Office? Are we a nation or are
we not? Are our sister Domin-
ions nations or are they not?”
“Britain,” he further stated,
“is striving mightily to sell us
British goods which we surely
want to buy, because we realise
that trade is a two-way street.
We suggest that Canada’s price
for more British goods in
Canada should be the fiscal re-
lease of the iron grip Britain
now holds on her colonies in
order that Canada can again
trade with her traditional mar-
kets on a basis of competition.
“Canada and the United
States,” he concluded, “must
make up their minds to what ex-
tent in the future they are pre-
pared to subsidise and maintain
the United Kingdom’s position
in Europe.”
The bitterly disappointed
Canadians certainly would find
little comfort in the latest state-
ment of British Board of Trade
president Wilson. Britain, he
said, had had to scale down or
stop altogether the purchases of
commodities such as timber,
newsprint or apples, for which
Canada had no other ready mar-
ket. Unless Britain could in-
crease its earnings of United
States and Canadian dollars
faster than the “off-shore dol-
lars” declined the problem
would not be that of increasing
Canadian purchases but of main-
taining even the present rate.
Dragnet Digest.
Pill Without Sugar- —Administered
to some obvious patients by the
American Medical Association: “So-
cialised medicine is the discredited
system of decadent nations which are
now living off the bounty of the
American people.”
* * * *
Pact Souvenir. —Other nations will
get photostatic copies; the U.S. hangs
on to the original of the Atlantic
Pact treaty. It’s a 15-page document
of 1040 words, typewritten in French
and English. Tied up with red, white
and blue ribbons, it’s bound in blue
goatskin, perhaps to counteract any
suggestion of “bull” about it.
* * H* *
Chain-stores Ban Corns. —Britain's
John Lewis. Partnership, which has
about 12,000 employee-members in its
various stores, is reported by London
“Times” to have clamped a ban down
on Corns. Present and future staff
will be asked to sign a declaration
that they’re neither members of the
Communist party nor in sympathy
with its doctrines; present members
declining to sign will be sacked.
* * * *
Crowding Into Israel. Figures
given to the Israeli Constituent
Assembly by Prime Minister Ben-
Gurion show that more than 210,000
Jews entered Israel in the past year,
100,000 of them arriving in about the
past four months. More than 150,000
of them have been housed, but 53,000
are still in reception-camps suffering
from “frightful overcrowding,” while
thousands of those who have been
housed are without work. Still,
despite the likelihood of this bad-
enough situation becoming worse,
there’s to be no curtailment of the
rate of entry, since “it was for the
gathering in of these people that the
State of Israel was established,”
* * * *
U.N.O. an Entity. —Overlooking the
sour folk who call it a nonentity,
U.N.O. has had an important finding
on its status handed down by the
International Court of Justice. The
finding, which took the president of
the court an hour to read, boils down
to recognition of U.N.O. as an entity
by itself, not just a collection of
individual States. This, in “Christian
Science Monitor’s” report, “is ex-
pected to go far to strengthen the
prestige and power of the inter-
national organisation. It means, for
example, that the U.N. could even
act to protect one of its agents
against the Government of his own
country. This,” the comment adds,
“undoubtedly will encourage U.N.
employees to act more as inter-
national civil servants, regardless of
the policies of their own Govern-
ments.”
* * * *
They. Run in All Shapes.—Accord-
ing to Sidney Hook, of New York
University, a study has been made of
U.S. Communist-front organisations
(some of these definitely labelled
“subversive” by the Department of
Justice), anyone who was a member
of “at least 20” such fronts being
tabbed as a “fellow-traveller.” Of
the leading hundred “fellow-travellers”
thus identified, 24 were college pro-
fessors, 21 writers and educators,
nine actors and producers, eight
clergymen, _ eight lawyers and six
millionaires.
* * » *
A Hornless Dilemma. —U.S. rail-
ways head W. G. Vollmer, speaking
on Britain’s State planning; “The
British Board of Trade produced an
edict that metal discs be attached to
the horns of pedigreed Angus bulls
being- exported. Later the order was
amended; it required instead that
the horns be branded. Then it was
revoked —the board discovered that
Angus bulls have no horns.”
* * * *
British Motorbikes. —As with the
performances of British-made cars in
the U.S., the winning there of both
the amateur and professional national
motor-cycle championships by British
machines should help to boost further
an export line that is going pretty
well as it is. Minister of Supply
Strauss recently put the motorbike-
export figure at 75,000 for last year,
compared with 20,000 in 1938.
* * * *
Two U.S. Secretaries. —As being
appraised by “some foreign dip-
lomats,” according to “U.S. News
and World Report”; “Secretary of
State Acheson is one who talks tough
but who has been known to bend
when the pressure is intense. Former
Secretary Marshall softly and
seemed all sweet reasonableness, but
was hard as iron when the pressure
was on.”
* * * *
U.S. ”Iron Curtain.” —In one of a
series of articles written after a recent
survey of the various Arab States,
N. Y. “Herald Tribune” correspon-
dent Kenneth Bilby quotes an Arab
comment: “Russia’s Iron Curtain
couldn’t equal the one the American
Press has erected against the Arabs.”
Also, “Books, films and special
articles sympathetic to the Arabs are
frequently banned from the United
States.” As a specific instance,
Major-General Glubb’s book The
Story of the Arab Legion “has not
been published in the United States
because an unsympathetic publisher
purchased American rights and then
refused to issue it.”


1647
IDE WINE OF ERUDITION
L
Gtlonde
PERSONAL ITEMS
Three coastal Cuttysarkers shoved off
from Brisbane last week in a 36ft. craft
on a 2500-mile trip to New Britain,
Skipper Dave Gillespie, who built the
boat, got his experience clawing round
the sandbanks of Moreton Bay; Jim
McLeaney is a blue-water man with
several world-trips in the Merchant Navy
behind him, and Jack Love knows more
than the difference between a granny- and
a reef-knot. Object of the trip is to en-
able executives of the Brisbane Marsden
timber firm, who are flying north next
month, to use the boat to inspect their
timber stand at Open Bay, on New
Britain’s north coast.
Resignation accepted last week, Ken
Bolton had been R.S.L. president in
N.S.W. since 1946. Born in India, and
coming here as a boy, he has service in
two wars to his credit. He shipped from
Australia for the Kaiser’s show in the
Ninth Field Ambulance, transferred to the
35th Battalion and came home with the
claim to being one of the few Australians
who went away a corporal and returned
a private. In War II he was with the
Army Transport Column. Between wars
he clewed up in the Canadian Merchant
Navy, and worked his way home through
the U.S. to start his own manufacturing
business in Sydney. Pressure of work
from this caused his handing over the
N.S.W. presidency to William Yeo, a
Digger farmer from near Parkes.
The highest civilian honor that Sweden
can bestow recently landed on Sir Peter
Buck, director of the Bishop Museum
at Honolulu. A Maorilander —his native
name is Te Rangihiroa—his father was
an Irishman and his mother a Maori
chieftainess.
Commander Lionel Robinson, M.V.0.,
D.S.C., off to Geneva as employers’ repre-
sentative at the 1.L.0. annual conference
next month, got his rank in the British
Navy, and most of his string of decora-
tions when he shipped land-legs to com-
mand an armored train with the B.E.F.
in France and Flanders in World War I.
He saw fighting at the first battle of
Ypres and at Neuve Chapelle, crossed to
the Belgian Army, then back to his right-
ful element and was in at the Zeebrugge
show. He came home as assistant to
Australia’s First Naval Member in 1919,
and a year later was A.D.C. to the
Prince of Wales on his August visit. He
is now a textile manufacturer, his recent
presidency of the Associated Chamber of
Manufacturers and of Victoria’s Cham-
ber of Commerce making him well-rigged
to keep the present appointment.
Turned up as full of energetic optimism
as ever to Melbourne’s £1 million motor-
show, Horace Harrison, its secretary and
organiser. The glittering heap of stream-
lined bodies must have recalled his first
love —the bouncy contraption he drove
when he entered the motor-industry in
1899. He has since stewarded most of the
important international motor-shows of
the past two decades, and founded the
National Roads Association and the
Federal Council of Motor Traders. Born
at Eltham (Vic.) in 1878, he was the
grandson of a pioneer shipowner of
N.S.W.
“Macnell”: One of a warship’s most
important men, particularly in a ship of
the size and complement of carrier
Sydney, is the Master-at-Arms, or
“Jaunty,” the senior rating on the lower-
deck. Head of the ship’s police-staff, he
is the Captain’s link with the discipline
and contentment of his crew. What
Sydney’s Jaunty, Chief Petty-officer Herb
Scales, doesn’t know about sailors’ foibles
simply isn’t knowledge. His first ship
was the old light cruiser Pioneer, in
which he served in World War I off
East Africa, before transhipping, in the
Mediterranean, to destroyer Swan, fore-
bear of our present sloop. In her he
had a spell in South Russia before re-
turning to instruct in seamanship in that
well-remembered Alma Mater of bare-
footed, straw-hatted Tars, the old Tingira.
Sydney isn’t the first new ship he’s com-
missioned —and in commissioning the
M.A.A. is the king-pin. He went home
in 1928 for cruiser Australia, then Alba-
tross, our first seaplane-carrier, and a
few months ago was the man to whom
most of the multitudinous teething-
troubles of a new crew bedding-down in
a new ship were addressed. Now 54, a
tubby, genial and widely-liked shellback,
his coming retirement will leave a gap
hard to fill.
The British Film Institute, which will
supervise the film side of the Festival
of Britain in 1951, has appointed a
Maorilander, John Ralph, its director.
Born at Gisborne, North Island, Ralph
was distributor for Canada’s Film Board.
He will see that M.L. films are well dis-
tributed through the documentary-pro-
gramme of Empire doings.
Dropped into The Bulletin from
Japan, Stephen Kelen, while up there
Tokio representative of 8.C.0.N., the
Occupation newspaper. Widely-travelled,
born a Hungarian, he came here in 1937
on tour with his country’s champion
table-tennis team, and with three world-
championship titles as his own property.
A freelance as well, after the tour he
played and wrote his way with a country-
man through the East from Aden to
China and from Africa to South America,
returning to Australia to stay in 1939.
But Hitler stepped in and Kelen stepped
out, up to Borneo and points north, with
an intelligence unit attached to the Ninth
Division. He had nearly a year with the
8.C.0.F. in Japan before shifting to its
paper, where, with his knowledge of
India, he edited the Indian troops’ page;
his stuff was translated into Urdu by a
native. A look over Hiroshima resulted
in some of the best descriptive writing to
come from that blasted city. Kelen owns
to four books published and is working
on a fifth —naturally enough, about Japan.
Colonel Robert Savage, 0.8. E., E.D.,
the popular and busy secretary of the
United Service Institution of Sydney, be-
gan public life at the age of nine as a
Boy Scout, and was actively connected
with the movement for 17 years. He is
a pioneer bush-walker and canoeist —the
only man to take a canoe down the Kow-
mung from behind Yerranderie to the
Burragorang Valley. A crack rifle-shot —
like his brother Norman, a King’s Medal-
list —he has won the N. S. Wales Militia
championship twice and has been in the
final dozen for the Australian Army
championships at least half a dozen
times. He is a life member of the Militia
Rifle Club Union. His military career
blossomed when he became Militia adju-
tant to First Division Signals in 1937.
He was Jim Thyer’s adjutant with Eighth
Division Signals on formation in July,
1940, went to the M.E. with Ninth Divi-
sion Signals, served on the staff of First
Australian Corps in Greece and Crete
and as a signals company-commander in
Syria, where he was seconded to com-
mand the divisional ski school of the
COL. SAVAGE, U.S.I. Secretary.
Australian forces. After his return he.
commanded various units, including First
Motor Division Signals and Third
Armored Division Signals, of which artist
Dubois was one of the brightest orna-
ments, eventually, after a term in Bone-
gilla, being promoted Colonel as C.O.
Australian Central Signal Training
Centre. He finished his war as Chief
Signals officer to the First Army in New
Guinea area. In private life he is with
Atlantic Oil and fills up spare moments
as honorary secretary of the Personnel
Panel of the Institute of Industrial
Management. During his term as United
Service secretary he has seen membership
of the institution hit 2500.
Jim Shore, depicted here by Prior, had
a shot-to-shot description of the German
Panzer break-through in Belgium —as
supervisor of Sydney’s Overseas Tele-
communications’ beam-wireless section he
had electronic fingers on every move of
JIM SHORE, O.T.C. Supervisor.
the onslaught that was to reach Paris. If
necessary, a London message can be in
Sydney in one minute, and throughout
the war five stations in London were
pumping reports and news into the big
towered A.W.A. building in York-street.
Millions of words were lifted by beam
from submarine cables to allow confiden-
tial stuff to pass along these unmolested.
Shore is one of the few A.F.C. men
gassed in the Kaiser’s war. Attached to
an artillery unit to receive wirelessed
spotting reports from aircraft, he caught
a packet at Ypres. His C.O. then is his
chief now —Jim Malone, chairman of
O.T.C. In that scrap Shore joined the
R.A.N., and as a chief petty-officer
manned the naval wireless station at
Rabaul. In 1922 he joined A.W.A.;
now he controls ether channels reaching
into London, America, Java, Manila and
Shanghai. Favorite reading is this paper’s
C/ncabled Additions.
New Zealand’s film-censor, W. von
Keisenberg, retires next month after 11
years of shielding Maorilanders from
flicker-immoralities. His relief is Gordon
Mirams, one-time Christchurch “Sun”
man and recently assistant-editor of the
N.Z. “Listener” ; his last job was with
the film section of U.N.E.S.C.O. in Eng-
land.
Selected as Liberal candidate for the
new Federal seat of Banks (N.S.W.), H.
Bowden Fletcher was a stock-and-station
agent at Narromine before trying free-
lance journalism—as “Recco” he has sub-
mitted Air Force pars to The Bulletin
for some years. Hailing from Newcastle,
he left for Gallipoli as a squadron sarn-
major in the 12th Light Horse, won a
commission in the field, transferred to
the A.F.C. in 1917 and collected a D.F.C.
Real-estate and stock business was his
game until called up the day before
Hitler’s war broke, to become Sydney’s
first air-recruiting-officer. Empire air-
scheme trainees will remember him as
their chaperon across the Pacific; on
the way back he looked after returning
wounded. In mufti again, he took on the
Inky Way, wrote widely on matters aero-
nautical and now represents several
British and American aviation journals.
, No one can bring better knowledge to
the road-building game than J. R. Kemp,
who steps down from the post of Queens-
land’s Main Roads Commissioner next
month. Deputy - Director - General of
Allied Works north of ’2B during the
war, he engineered the building of enough
road-mileage to join Brisbane and Tokio,
running over 30 miles of bridges. An
engineering man of many parts—among
them chairmanship of the Somerset Dam
and Story Bridge boards, of the Bureau
of State Land and Water Resources, and
member of several royal commissions—
he feels his present worries as Co-
ordinator-General of Public Works, added
to an interest in Queensland’s Food for
Britain scheme, are enough to keep him
on the road of public service.
One of the most logical and analytical
minds on the Victorian Supreme Court
Bench will conduct that State’s surfacing
of Communist activities, beginning next
month. Knight Charles Lowe first
entered the legal limelight when he dealt
with the contentious litigation arising
from Melba’s will-gift of £8000 for. per-
petuity of a scholarship at the Albert-
street Conservatorium “in the hope that
another Melba may arise.” He has
always had an interest in American and
Australian co-operatiOn—one of the main
reasons for his getting the Chancellorship
of Melbourne Uni. Previous royal
commissions included that into Darwin’s
first raid and the investigation of the
Ward “missing-documents” allegations in
1943 ; the present inquiry will be con-
ducted with its commissioner’s charac-
teristic courteous manner and judicial
calm.
A post-office clerk with an extra-
ordinary history, Boris Merlin has passed
on at Wellington (M.L.) at 76. Born in
St. Petersburg, he was trained at the Im-
perial Court of Pages and became page
to the Czarina, wife of Alexander III and
sister of Queen Alexandra of England.
Merlin fought in the Russo-Jap war, and
when the 1917 revolution broke he threw
in his lot with Admiral Kolchak and was
made Governor of Eastern Siberia. The
Bolsheviks caught and shot Kolchak and
Merlin was obliged to bolt, first to the
Dutch East Indies, thence to Maoriland,
where he took his knowledge of 15
languages into the Wellington post-office.
Another Australian who reached top
rank in the R.A.F., Air Vice-Marshal
John Cassidy, is back to settle in Queens-
land. He left Dalby with a Rhodes
Scholarship in 1913, since when he’s
stayed overseas. He interrupted his Oxford
studies to win a “mention” at Gallipoli,
and in between wars specialised in
signals, becoming the R.A.F.’s chief
signals officer in the Middle East. He
had that job’s counterpart at Fighter
Command H.Q. in England when World
War II broke, and during it was respon-
sible for the R.A.F.’s signal training, with
over 50 stations in his command —the
27th Group, which R.A.A.F. men in
England will remember as their wireless
Alma Mater.
Gone to the Last Parade at Hopetoun
(Vic.), Colonel Robert McVea, who
landed at Gallipoli with the Fifth Bat-
talion. Hailing from Belfast, he came to
Australia as a lad and spent most of his
active life soldiering. In the first scrap
he was in the P. and O. liner Ballarat
as O.C. of a convoy heading for England
with reinforcements for the A.I.F. On
the second anniversary of the day he went
ashore at Anzac a German submarine
ripped his ship open with a torpedo at
the entrance to the English Channel. All
of the 1700-odd men she carried were
saved. McVea came home to a senior
post in Repatriation, and there worked
hard and well for the Diggers. He
was 78.
Into the silence: —
In Sydney, at 91, Osmar Adams Edwards,
retired stipendiary magistrate and good citizen.
As a youth he went to sea, but entered the
Justice Department in 1890, and became P.M.
at Bingara in 1899. He was P.M. at Mudgee,
Tamworth, Goulburn and Wollongong before
coming to Sydney as S.M. in 1920. He re-
tired in 1925.
In Melbourne, one year over the century,
John Hannan, who was born at Williamstown
when that dockland was part of the Port
Phillip district of N.S.W. One of his 33 grand-
children celebrated the Requiem Mass.
In Adelaide, at 85, Rev, Alfred Finch, a
Methodist minister for 39 years. A Devon
man, he practised Christianity in London’s
East End before transferring to Australia in
1896.
In Brisbane, at 63, Dr. Patrick Crowe,
deputy-superintendent of Goodna mental hos-
pital. One-time president of Club,
he played Rugby Union for Ireland while study-
ing at Dublin’s Royal College of Surgeons,
and was the only Queenslander to win that city’s
Carmichael Medal for pathology. He specialised
in psychiatry at Goodna.
At Rotorua (M.L.), at 72, Thomas Parata,
brother of the well-known Rugby player. Son
of an old-time Parliamentarian, he was a mem-
ber of the M.L, contingent at Edward VII’s
coronation in 1902,
In Perth, at 56, Leslie Phillips, a man of
note in Westralia’s technical-education and
youth-welfare institutions. An Old Digger, and
M.Sc. and Master of Education from Mel-
bourne Uni., as Regional Director of the State’s
C.R.T.S. he helped, personally and officially,
hundreds of ex-servicemen on their civil-life way.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The Australian Ballet Society launched
its first big offensive in an attempt to
raise money to establish permanent ballet
in this country when the Symphony
Orchestra, which has just been formed by
a local B-class broadcasting station, pre-
sented a concert of ballet music in the
Town Hall. Among the items presented
were Tschaikowsky’s “Swan Lake,”
Delibes’ “Coppelia” and “Sea Legend,”
by the Australian composer Esther Rofe.
Madame Marie Rambert and Ninette de
Valois are honorary life members of the
Australian Ballet Society, and for some
years past food parcels have been sent, by
special donations to the Society, to
Covent Garden and Sadler Wells and to
the relatives of the Rambert dancers who
were in this country last year. The Aus-
tralian Ballet Society is non-profit-making
in the sense that it is non-dividend-pay-
ing, and all money, from whatever source
it comes, goes towards the object of
firmly establishing ballet here.
To celebrate the engagement of her
elder daughter Virginia to Leslie Leigh—
the two met in Japan when Virginia was
doing Red Gross work there—Mrs. Maie
Hoban entertained almost 100 guests at
a late-afternoon party in the studio of the
Pilgrim Theatre, East Melbourne. Leslie
is the son of . Mr. and Mrs. S. F. Leigh,
of Parkes. Mrs. Hoban’s black crepe
and lace frock was worn with a black
hat trimmed with narrow ribbon, tinsel-
edged in mauve, green and blue. Virginia
wore a dark-green velvet ballerina-frock.
Her sister Denise’s ballerina-frock was
of tea-rose-pink faille. Guests included
Monica Starke, whose cinnamon-brown
tailored coat, edged with matching velvet,
was worn with a matching feather-
trimmed hat; Pat Weetman, wearing a
gay tartan stole over her black frock;
Ruth Morton, in small cyclamen hat
trimmed with pink roses and veiling and
a wine-toned frock; Mrs. A. Bell,
a striking lime-green silk jersey turban
topping her grey tailored coat; Mrs. D.
Reddan, whose blue silk straw hat
featured cerise taffeta bows ; and Lelie
Potter, her crepe jacket-suit glittering
with matching bead trimming in a flower
motif.
Hair-styles, allied to the very latest
creations in day-frocks and evening-'*
gowns, were featured at the Coiffures
On Parade, staged by the Master Ladies
Hairdressers at St. Kilda Town Hall. Ten
leading mannequins quickly changed hair
styles to match the ensemble worn. The
short hair-style, seemingly, has come
to stay ; short hairdos, by skilful comb-
ing and the addition of plaits and
switches, were transformed in a twinkling
into upswept Edwardian coiffures, suit-
able for wearing with the most elegant
and sophisticated of ensembles. Sym-
phony Gowns brought out some of their
most exclusive models ; these showed the
trend for the pencil-slim skirt, swing-
back short jacket and the “bell-backed”
coat, which is a modified version of the
“tent” coat. It has rounded shoulders,
deep armholes and magyar sleeves.
Taupe, mushroom and cinnamon were
the shades most favored, whilst the
ballerina frock section was noted for
stiffened failles, moire taffeta fashioned
wide, swinging skirts, either bias-cut or
pleated, and with bodices showing wide,
deep necklines. Evening gowns had
apron fronts, draped hiplines and
bouffant bustles. The beauty of brocade
was seen in a parchment-toned brocade
gown, styled with a halter neck, draped
apron front and bustle back. Patric and
Yvonne Whittam designed many of the
attractive hats worn. These were mostly
of the cloche with feather-quill
trimming. Embroidered and sequined
velvet bonnets were charming top notes
for cocktail- and theatre-wear.
With the Lord Mayor, Cr. J. S. Disney,
still abroad and the Lady Mayoress in-
disposed, it was left to the acting-Lord
Mayor, knight Gengoult Smith, to launch
the 1949 “Miss Australia” Quest. This he
did at a late-afternoon party in the Town
Hall reception-room, and the first girl
was signed up a§ an entrant. This year
conditions are slightly different. If the
girl chosen desires a glamor tour she may
have it, but should the winner be a
student she may elect to further her
studies at an English college or university.
Herbert Pacini is chairman of directors,
and members of the board include only
two women ; Mrs. Wallace Mitchell and
Mrs. Eric Cottrell. They were both at
the party, as were Lord Mayor of Hobart
R. O. Harris, who is chairman of the
Miss Australia Quest in Tasmania, and
his wife, who wore a grey tailored suit
and small navy velvet hat which had
faint touches of powder-blue. A black
hat carrying rust-toned ribbons was worn
by Mrs. O. J. Nilsen with her grey tailored
suit. Mrs. M. J. Brens added a tailored
coat to her black crepe jacket-suit. Mrs.
W. H. McKechnie’s sage-green felt hat
had trimmings of brown ribbon.
At the Melbourne premiere of “Eureka
Stockade,” descendants of Peter Lalor
arrived at the Majestic Theatre in the
only surviving Cobb and Co. coach. At
the conclusion of the film J. J. Collins,
Victorian representative of Greater
Union Theatres, and Mrs. Collins gave
a supper-party in the foyer of the theatre.
Mrs. Collins’s gown was in turquoise-
blue and was gold-beaded. Mrs. R. M.
Richards, wife of the theatre’s manager,
wore powder-blue crepe romaine, A
three-quarter coat in gunmetal brocade
was. worn by Mrs. F. W. Thring over a
midnight-blue gown. Elizabeth Fry, who
was with her sister Eleanor, wore a
bouffant gown of patterned sheer in
pastel tonings.
Special guests at the premiere included
Peter Lalor, great-grandson of the leader
of the Eureka uprising, his two sisters,
Mrs. F. Gillespie and Mrs. J. White,
their aunt, Mrs. J. P. Lalor, and Lalor
Curren, another relative. Eighty-three-
years-old W. R. Barstowe, who was
sergeant-at-arms to the original Peter
Lalor, was also a guest. In the audi-
ence were Dympna O’Collins in a strik-
ing blue-and-rose-toned full-length man-
darin cOat; Elizabeth Lewis, who tucked
her hair into a diamente Juliet cap and
wore a black chiffon dinner-gown ; Mrs.
N. W. Strange, her black crepe gown
covered with a dyed-ermine coat; Mrs.
M. Jarrett, in black satin ballerina frock
and full-length brown lamb coat; Mrs.
W. Ebstein, her gown of white crepe,
and Diana Dennett, her fineries a pot-
pourri of green taffeta, black velvet and
brown musquash,
Mrs. G. O. Dorward was born in the
Scottish Highlands, graduated M.A, at
Aberdeen University, and taught at
various Scottish schools. Sixteen years
ago she came to this country, becoming
headmistress of Clarendon Girls’ School,
Ballarat. Six years later she married and
went to live 25 miles from Deniliquin
(N.S.W.), and joined the Country
Women’s Association. She was president
of the Echuca Group and was the Vic-
torian delegate to Conference of Associ-
ated Countrywomen of the World at
Amsterdam. At the recent C.W.A. con-
ference in Melbourne Mrs. Dorward
was elected State president. With her
husband and schoolboy son she lives in
Geelong.
Pleasant conditions at Moonee Valley
brought out a variety of styles, with navy,
black and grey among the most popular
shades. Mrs. lan Miller matched her
distinctive ensemble in taupe duvetyn
with a swathed, high-crowned turban.
American Beauty gabardine fashioned
the three-quarters-length jacket and skirt
worn by Mrs. G. T. Davies; her grey
cloche hat was trimmed with grey velvet.
Mrs. Fred Hammond contrasted her
junior navy suit with a pale-mauve felt
hat trimmed with a pale-cyclamen
feather-mount. Mrs. John Thonemann
matched her brown suit with a snood. A
beige tam-o’-shanter tartan skirt and hip-
length green coat made sporting com-
bination for Mrs. N. Strange. Scarlet
wool fashioned Mrs. J. Bowen Pain’s
frock, which she wore undei; a short dyed-
ermine jacket. Mrs. T. Allen Mc r
Kay’s fitted cap of powder-blue goose-
feathers lent distinction to her black
jacket-suit. Mrs. C. Curtain’s black
taffeta-topped crepe frock was worn with
a matching jacket and winter-white felt
hat trimmed with black velvet. The navy
suit worn by Mrs. Norman Shepherd
featured a full, pleated skirt; her small
navy hat was finished with veiling. A
burgundy felt hat gave contrast for the
grey suit worn by Mrs. Ross Grey Smith.
Muriel Drakeford’s attractive suit was of
American Beauty wool; her small grey
felt hat sported an emerald-green feather.
Sydney visitor, Leita Walsh, wore an all-
black ensemble; her small hat was
clustered with black coq-feathers.
From Sydney
This week is bravely tied up with red,
white and blue ribbons. It is Empire
Day week, and a cooee to lunches, din-
ners, dances to the glory of May 24 is
ringing around the city. On Monday
night the Royal Sydney Yacht Squadron
at Kirribilli rejoiced over a menu of
Empire foods. The speaker was Dr.
Frank Louat, Yesterday the English-
Speaking Union rallied at a lunch in
David Jones’s Blue Room. Great
Britain’s Trade Commissioner, R. S.
Henderson, was this union’s speaker. In
the afternoon a tea-drinking that should
swell the profits of India’s tea-plantations
was centred at the Trocadero by the Over-
seas League and the Victoria League. In
the evening there was a full-dress recep-
tion given by the Royal Empire Society
in the society’s club-rooms. One of the
jolliest celebrations will be the dance in
the drill-hall of Victoria Barracks next
Friday. The United Service Association,
of which General Berryman is president,
is arranging this gladness.
American dancer and actress Beth
Dean, the “Riding Mistress” in J.C.W.’s
record-breaking “Annie Get Your Gun”
at the Theatre Royal, studied with Leo
Staats, of Opera Ballet, and won several
gold medals at Concourse International
de Dance. She spent two years studying
under M. Nicholas Legat in London and
later danced with Reene Blum’s Ballet
Russe. In London she also studied
dramatic art with Fay Compton. Off-
stage Beth Dean is Mrs. Victor Carell —
her husband is also in the show as Wil-
son, the hotel-proprietor.
This Letter nominates Mrs. George
Vasey, Federal president of the War
Widows’ Guild of Australia, as the per-
sonality of the week. Coming from Mel-
bourne with her two sons in the Guild’s
station-wagon, she called at W.W.G.
branches on her way to Sydney to attend
the second annual meeting of the N.S.W.
branch. This crowded out the drill-hall
at Miller’s Point with war widows and
their supporters, and Mrs. Vasey, who is
a very straight-shooter, made several per-
tinent remarks about low pensions and the
rights of the soldier’s widow and orphan.
Surely all of us who are beneficiaries of
the dead soldier must agree that the coun-
try’s best is due to his family.
Lieut.-General Berryman, G.O.C.
Eastern Command, a keen worker in the
cause of the War Widows’ Guild, was
one of the afternoon’s speakers. Eliza-
beth Northcott, daughter of the State
Governor, was among the hundreds pre-
sent and was presented with a posy by
small Josephine and Patricia Seaman.
During her visit to Sydney Mrs, Vasey
was a guest at Government House. Mrs.
Berryman, Admiral G. D. Moore and
Mrs. Moore and Air Vice-Marshal Mc-
Cauley and Mrs. McCauley were others
noted. Major Joyce Snelling, secretary of
the N.S.W. branch, presided at the meet-
ing and received a cheque for £360 from
Mrs. P. L. Moore, of the Eastern Com-
mand Women’s Auxiliary,
The committee of the Coral Sea Ball
drank their cocktails with pride the other
evening. Members had gathered in the
American Club to hand over the ball
cheque to the president of the Australian-
American Society, Conrad Horley. The
slip of paper presented by the ball’s vice-
president, Mrs. Marcel Dekyvere, was
worth £931. One hundred guineas of
this was donated to the Food for Britain
Fund and was received by the fund’s
secretary, H. Simpson. The food parcels
will go to children of West Ham, London.
Mrs. Horley and secretary of the A.A.
Association, Mrs. Beresford, were the
hostesses.
Sheep Show, the Wool Ball and
the Bachelors’ Bawl of sheep-week
are things talked about this week.
It is easily seen that Australia knows
where her largest cheque comes from.
The Wool Ball is the big flutter for Satur-
day night at Romano’s, and on Sunday
night, to aid the Food for Babies’ Fund,
the Bachelors’ Bawl will go its merry
round-about in the Celebrity Club from
seven p.m. till midnight.
Macleay Regis, the big flats at the foot
of Macleay-street, were a bit of Norway
one night last week. It was Norway’s
National Day, and that country’s Minister-
Plenipotentiary, Lars Jorstad, and his
wife were entertaining the 60 or 70 Norse-
men and -women who make up Norway’s
community in Sydney. Many of the
women guests wore their national
dress, and all men and women wore
knots of the national colors: blue,
white and red. The party was timed
from five to seven, and on the buffet
were two towering Norwegian specials:
Kransenkake. These cakes are made of
rings of pastry, between the rings a thick
layer of burnt sugar. The rings get
smaller and smaller and finally end in a
peak. Mrs. Jorstad received her guests
in a dinner-frock of black lace, ankle-
length and full-skirted. The Neils Stor-
akers were guests. Mrs. Storaker wore
an afternoon frock, also black. The
Legation’s secretary. Miss Danielsen,
was another at the gay party. Her
parma-violet crepes and a black cloche
hat kept graceful company. Later the
Minister and Mrs. Jorstad gave a dinner
party for diplomats and their wives at
Prince’s.
Mrs. Maurice Gulson has been enter-
taining her friends to a round of lunch
parties. She and her husband are off in
the Orontes for a visit to Ceylon and
India.
It is no flight of fancy, now, to say that
debutantes “spread their wings” when
fluttering into the social strata. A group
of pretty youngsters at the Air Force
Ball, last week, after their presentation
to Air Vice-Marshal and Mrs. T, P. J.
McCauley, actually formed the wings
of a plane on the dance floor of
the Trocadero. Their escorts, members
of the R.A.A.F. station at Richmond,
were the fuselage, the nose was
formed by two little flower-girls, and
Kevin Graham in air-force uniform and
with silver tailpiece strapped to his back
finished off the design. The novelty of
the idea was greeted with applause by
about 1000 dancers. President of the
Air Force Association, John Bavin, and
Mrs. Bavin were the night’s host and
hostess. Others in the official group were
Anne McCauley, Colonel and Mrs. Cox,
Colonel Kendall and Mrs. Kendall, chair-
man of the ball committee H- L. Berri-
man and Mrs, Berriman, and Mrs. Nancy
Wake of “Underground” fame, Liberal
candidate for Barton in the coming elec-
tions. The R.A.A.F, Memorial Centre
benefits from the ball.
Attractive Suzanne Crouch, of Darling
Point, got into the headlines last Sunday
by deciding to get married instead of leav-
ing Shanghai in the last rescue plane.
Suzanne and Harold Fabian, of Shanghai,
had planned to marry last Saturday in
Holy Trinity Cathedral. During the war
Suzanne was the capable hospitality sec-
retary of the Victoria League Young
Contingent. Since then she has been
working in Shanghai with U.N.R.R.A.
Friends of the Spastic Centre at Mos-
man are rallying around. Tonight in the
Cause there will be a concert at the Con-
servatorium arranged by Madame Goos-
sens. On the 27th a ball will be held in
the Monash Hut by the staff record sec-
tion of the Repatriation Department, and
on the 28th a cabaret is being arranged
by the All Pals Club in the Alexandria
Town Hall. /
Invitations are out for an afternoon re-
ception in honor of the Rafael Kubeliks
and Mr. and Mrs. Rudolf Schock. Hosts
are the committee of the Sydney Sym-
phony subscribers’ orchestral committee.
The party will be held in the drawing-
room of the Royal Empire Society next
Tuesday afternoon.
Patricia Vickery, eldest daughter of
the Redvers Vickerys, of Talofa, Hare-
field, wore a long and bouffant frock of
silver brocade, a tulle veil and carried
orchids when she became Mrs. Michael
Harvey in St. Phillip’s Church on Church
Hill last week. Bride’s two sisters,
Janette and Judith, Nea Gibson and
Judith Willis wore frocks of white lace
over mignonette-green taffeta and circled
their heads with flowers. The ’groom,
Michael Harvey, is the only son of the
late A. E. Harvey, of Cheshire, and Mrs.
A. W. Morley, of Singapore, who came
to Sydney for the wedding. Bride’s
parents held a reception at the Pickwick
Club.
Bridesmaid Judith Willis herself was
one of last Saturday’s pretty brides when
she became Mrs. Keith Taubman, and
numbered among her attendants was Mrs.
Michael Harvey,


BOOKS FROM ANGUS & ROBERTSON’S
TRUSTEESHIP IN THE PACIFIC
Edited by A. H. McDonald.
This book has been written by a study group of the Australian Institute of
International Affairs that uhder the chairmanship of Professor A. H.
McDonald undertook for the Institute of Pacific Relations a project on the
trusteeship in the Pacific. It presents an analysis of both the general
principles and the particular local conditions of trusteeship in that area.
A comprehensive and balanced study. 10/6 (post 4d.)
ONE MOUNTAIN AFTER ANOTHER
By Arthur Groom.
The wild and magnificent country of the McPherson Range, on the border
of Queensland and New South Wales, forms the subject of this book. It is
one of the most picturesque regions in Australia, and, though the fame of
Lamington National Park is steadily increasing, it is all too little known.
The superb photographs that accompany the text more than bear out the
author’s descriptions of the wonders of this country of forests, peaks, and
waterfalls. This is indeed an unusual and attractive book, and one which
must delight every lover of natural beauty. X5/_ (post 5d.)
ANGUS & ROBERTSON LIMITED
Booksellers & Publishers,
89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. MA6511.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs— No Cushions
This latest Invention by Dr. L.
Barrere brings to rupture sufferers an
entirely new method o£ control, the
result of 40 years’ practice and im-
provements, proved completely suc-
cessful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERB acts like the
hand when placed flat upon the orifice.
You will at once, without effort and
in all movements, bold the intestine
in its cavity.
Write today for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 26c), 243 Elizabeth St., Sydney.
COAKD
PROTECTA
Suitable for every type of business it records
all Sales. Credits. Payouts etc. Stronfly built,
pleasing in appearance. Send for full details
and literature to
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Distributing Agents—
SYDNEY W. C Penfold & <>. Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE . Norman Bros. Pty. Ltd.
ADELAIDE , Vardon dr Sons Ltd.
PERTH . • Docket Book Co. (Aust.)
Oit/e £xtras‘
will help to overcome
today's high prices
: >
f i
mmm
wm
What "little extra"can YOU contribute?
Since the war, Australian industry has been unable to reach full
production because of shortages of manpower, raw materials and
new manufacturing equipment. Unfortunately, under world con-
ditions as they exist today, it Will be some time before these difficulties
can be completely overcome. In the meantime, we are desperately
short of many vitally needed goods.
If we cannot increase production
in the normal way —by adding man-
power and machinery where needed
—what are we going to do? Obvious-
ly, we must produce more from the
resources available . . and this can
be done if everyone concerned
(workers and managements alike)
will find ways of adding "little
extras’’ to our present production.
What are these "little extras"?
They vary from industry to industry
—there are no hard-and-fast rules.
Improvement in working methods, for
instance, by altering grouping of men
and machines . . . adoption of simple,
time-saving ideas . . J. closer co-
operation between management and
men . . . plans for still higher
efficiency, and a push along by every-
one concerned, at every opportunity.
These are all "little extras” that cost
no more in toil or money, but have
been proved to step up production
amazingly.
What will be the result?
Present shortages will be rapidly
overcome, and that means plentiful
supplies, a wider range of choice, and
better values all round. You and
every other Australian will benefit
by a high living standard, and a
secure and prosperous future. Let’s
all start giving a "little extra” straight
away.
DO A GOOD JOB
..for Yourself and Australia
Authorised by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth
NS44-113-59
Me llfMflawed
333 tiu/mca
- . j/, ...
'CEoaiesCei....
a .a
siVAI
i
is
STATE
THE SECRET'S IN
THE 333'$ BLEND
EXPRESSJU
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Wants.
To buy copy of Ten Years Under
the Earth by Casteret. —4635.
Ex-station overseer, Sydney, re-
turned soldier, at present fitter in
engineering works, interested in or-
ganising, sales, journalism and en-
gineering production, seeks position
offering responsibility.—4634.
Words of verse “Homeward
Bound,” containing the lines: —
With tallow casks all dunnaged tight,
With tiers on tiers of bales,
With cargo crammed from hatch to hatch.
She’s racing for the sales.
—4636.
Information Sought.
When and by whom was “The
Encyclopcedia Britannica” first pub-
lished ?
The Encyclopcedia Britannica or
Dictionary of Arts and Sciences, “by
a society of gentlemen in Scotland,
printed in Edinburgh for A. Bell
and C. Macfarquhar, and sold by
Colin Macfarquhar at his printing
office in Nicholson-street,” was com-
pleted in 1771 in three volumes, con-
taining 2670 pages and 160 copper-
plates engraved by Andrew Bell. It
was published in numbers, of which
the first two were issued in Dec.,
1768, “price 6d. each, or 8d. on finer
paper,” and was to be completed in
100 weekly numbers.
* * * *
Some details about the Indian poet
Rabindranath Tagore?
He was born at Calcutta in 1861
and died in 1941. Of his works,
which are marked by deep religious
feeling, a strong sense of the beauty
of earth and sky in his native land,
and by love of childhood (especially
in “The Crescent Moon”), many
have been translated into English.
These include “Gitanjali,” “The
Crescent Moon,” and “The Gar-
dener,” published in 1913 ; the three
plays, “Chitra,” “The King of the
Dark Chamber” and “The Post
Office,” various addresses on life and
its realisation, and essays. Tagore
also wrote many short stories, of
which only a few, “Hungry Stones”
and “Broken Ties” among them,
have been translated. Tagore wrote
mainly in Bengali, but he also wrote
in English.
* * * *
Origin of the phrase “ Buckley’s
chance”?
Baker’s The Australian Language
says: “Perhaps commemorating a
convict named Buckley, who escaped
to the bush in 1803 and lived with
the aborigines for thirty-two years.
An argument against this theory is
that the expression did not become
current until about 1898. It is sug-
gested that it comes from a pun on
the name of the Melbourne firm of
Buckley and Nunn, which would ex-
plain the currency of the Australian
phrase: ‘There are just two chances,
Buckley’s and none, meaning there
are no chances at all.’ ”
Brief Answers.
J.N.: (1) Number of full-blood
non-Europeans and percentage of full-
blood non-Europeans to full-blood
Europeans ih Australia for the years
stated were as follows; 1911: 37,789,
0.86 per cent.; 1921: 30,975, 0.58
per cent.; 1933; 22,780, 0.35 per
cent.; 1947: 21,495, 0.29 per cent.
(2) Estimated number of full-blood
aborigines in Australia for the years
stated were as follows: 1915, 61,705;
1921, 58,771; 1933, 55,000; 1939,
51,557; 1944, 47,014... .G.R.G.: (1)
It is probably caused by the leakage
of a small amount of water into the
oil, either from a crack in your engine
or through a faulty cylinder-head
gasket. A check on these possibili-
ties is indicated. (2) It is the usual
practice, when setting valves with the
engine cold, to allow one-thousandth
of an inch more than the clearance
when the engine is hot V.8.P.:
See Freezing Preservation of Food
by Tressler and Clifford... .F.L.R.:
In. leather case and complete, the
binoculars would be worth approxi-
mately £10... .N.C.W.; The public
funeral of Burke and Wills took
place in Melbourne on January 21,
1863... .K.G.H.: In golf a birdie is
a score of one stroke less than par
on a hole; an eagle is a score
two strokes less than par on any hole
but a par-three hole H.F.: The
original Credit Foncier was an insti-
tution founded in France by t
economist Wolowski, and create
under Government patronage by a
decree issued in 1852, to enable land-
owners and owners of house property
to obtain money on mortgage of real
securities at a low rate of interest,
the loans to be repayable by annui-
ties, including redemption of capital.
ANSWERS TO
CORRESPONDENTS
Name and address must appear on the
MS. No liability is undertaken re
contributions voluntarily submitted;
and no MS, will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be
addressed to the Editor,
M.N.: Writers who make it rain
for a happy ending would be wasting
less time trying to break real
droughts... .G.F.S.: Only the very
best-managed husbands and drunken
schoolmasters need apply... .8.E.:
Your homing goat has done it again.
S.R.: Mulligan’s dull again
F.R.: The gentle south wind blew
them both into the basket
J.T.: We, also, eliminated “The
Moustache” J.A.G.: “Sturdy sons
of the wide open spaces” who turn
out in the last sentence to be bush-
dogs are 'now shot on sight in this
office... .E.M.: We don’t care “What
Became of the Geese”... .L.H. Detec-
tive stories sell on their people, not
their geometry M.D.: Grim but
dim H.R.G.: Only a par. in it if
true J.H.M.: No “Old Man’s
Tale” by a man who was a young
man in 1836 accepted unless accom-
panied by birth-certificates (1) of
man, (2) of tale... .H.J.8.: Not
taking a “Helicopter Holiday”
Bellerive; Eight lines to the emu,
then: —
... .C.M.: Bees buzzed back to U.K.
... .P.H.: “The Juryman” challenged.
. ...E.R.: Why is it that in almost
every Australian detective story the
characters are all dead before the
murder? P.R.: “Bubble Reputa-
tion” not .fizzy enough for us
K.N.H.: Cannibal cook a little too
obvious K.M.: Not a bad de-
scription of the canefields, but it’s
hardly a poem R.Y. r Might suit
a woman’s paper 8.E.: Close.
You need more exact detail in your
descriptions, and the “wine of youth”
is conventional and inappropriate
F.L.J.: Your worlds are too flat.
One fine afternoon
At thb Melbourne Zoo
I did closely gaze
At the Australian emu.
Fearless, strong and
Giant bird in size.
Alertful and active
With sharp brown eyes.


The
"WILD CAT”
MONTHLY
No investor can afford to
be without it.
ECONOMIC REVIEWS.
INVESTMENT ANALYSIS.
MINING NOTES.
Single copies 2/-.
Yearly subscription 22/6.
Published by The Bulletin News-
paper Co. Pty., Ltd., Sydney and
all States.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ERIC FOLLENT formerly of Lismore.
—TAKE NOTICE that your wife LAURA
MAY FOLLENT has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 4690 of 1948 against you
on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court Sydney by the
Bth August next and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS.
THOS. E. RUMMERY & LIDDY, Solici-
tors, Woodlark Street, Lismore. —(n.s.)
J. DOUGHAN, Acting Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO BURTON GEORGE LAUNDESS late
of Guildford.—TAKE NOTICE that
ELIZABETH MAUD LAUNDESS has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 562 of 1949
on the grounds of desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause
or excuse and habitual drunkenness
during three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appear-
ance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court Sydney by the Ist August, 1949,
and obtain a copy of the petition with-
out charge from JOHN CHARLES
PAYNTER, Solicitor, of St. James Build-
ings, 107-109 Elizabeth Street, Sydney,
New South Wales. —(n.s.) J. DOUGHAN,
Acting Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW
SOUTH WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT WILLIAM BLACK.—TAKE
NOTICE that RITA BLACK has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 735 of 1949 on
the grounds of your desertion for three
years and upwards without just cause or
excuse If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce
Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 10th August 1949 and
obtain a copy of the petition without
charge fi;om CHARLES GRIFFITHS,
Solicitor, 164 Phillip Street, Sydney, New
South Wales. — (1.5.) J. DOUGHAN,
Acting Registrar in Divorce.
Missing Friend.
FITZGERALD, Maurice. —Would the next*
of-kin of MAURICE FITZGERALD, Com-
positor, who died at Rockdale on 23rd
March 1946, communicate with the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 19 O’Connell Street,
Sydney.
Public Notice.
iTIOLAND KARL KAUPP, of German
nationality, born at Aschaffenburg-Main,
Germany, resident three years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 34 Chalmers Street,
Belmore, New South Wales, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality and Citizenship Act, 1948.
THE SERVICE MAN
"Peace" in Berlin.
“Ek Dum”: It did not take
long to show what the Berlin
“peace” was worth. The
arrangement to open the block-
ade having been signed, General
Clay having left for the United
States and everything being ap-
parently settled, the usual Mos-
cow “Red-tape” machine began
to work. The idea of any
operation proceeding without
clusters of fixed bayonets and
bundles of unworkable regula-
tions and orders is foreign to the
Russian mind.
First, food supplies from the
West were held up until the
roads were blocked and 500
lorry loads of perishables were
rotting near the border of the
German zone. The fact soon be-
came clear that while the Rus-
sians had removed the blockade
they were still strangling traffic.
They refused to receive bills
of lading rubber-stamped in the
normal manner, but insisted that
each should be signed in, ink
and countersigned by the Eas-
tern Zone German Economic
Commission. Then they refused
to issue transit permits for trains
from the West. In any case,
they refused to let more than
16 trains, passenger and freight,
per day through. They were so
slow with documents that at the
week-end only one barge of the
multitude which in normal times
ply from the West had suc-
ceeded in reaching Berlin. In-
stead of the normal three in-
gress points, they are allowing
the Allies to use only one —
Helmstadt.
And everything they have
done has been operated with
their‘usual bayonet and tommy-
gun technique.
The election in the Soviet
zone of Germany did not help
matters much. It had been
arranged on the usual Russian
“democratic” plan, allowing
only one set of candidates
nominated by the “People’s
Congress,” compulsory voting,
spoiled ballot-papers counting
for assent. Linked with the vote
was a plebiscite on a plan for a
united Germany and a peace
settlement. The results were a
shock to the Russians. No fewer
than 4,000,000 out of 12,000,000
voted against the proposal at the
risk of severe reprisals.
Following this vote the Rus-
sian attitude tautened consider-
ably. They had hoped to go to
the Foreign Ministers’ Confer-
ence on the future of Germany
with the usual 99.873 per cent,
vote in favor of their scheme.
And this was a serious rebuff.
On May 20-21 fresh trouble
broke out. Most of the rail
workers live and shop in the
Western sector and asked for
their wages in Western marks.
Eastern marks are no good to
them even if they dwelt in the
East, having regard to the supply
situation.
A clearing-house having been
established for Western marks,
there seemed to be no reason
why the request should not have
been granted as a matter of
course. But it was not, and a
strike ensued —the weapon which
Moscow and the Communist
party advocate throughout the
world as the right of workers.
Brigadier - General Frank
Howley, the U.S. Commandant,
said that the workers’ request
was “entirely legitimate” and the
strike a “legitimate weapon.”
The Russians, who urge Aus-
tralians and other revolutionary
fodder to use such methods,
however*, showed immediate dis-
approval of their own weapon.
They at once turned loose
a violent riff-raff as strike-
breakers, a measure for which a
vote of censure on them from
the Australian Communist party
might be expected—not too con-
fidently.
The general attitude and action
of tjie Russians was doubly
brutal, since Berlin workers live
on the breadline and the Rus-
sians’ “callous disregard,” as a
British spokesman called it, of
the needs of their employees was
causing suffering and starvation.
The strike-breakers apparently
went into the fray with charac-
teristic Communist vim and
violence, which grew as the re-
taliatory fury of the strikers
grew. This seems to have sur-
prised the Russians completely.
Russian officers were stoned;
their Commandant had to be
rescued by Western police;
strike-breakers had a rough time,
and there were many casualties
on both sides. The Ring rail-
way and other normal metropoli-
tan transport was shut down.
Starvation increased and
tempers rose and the strikers be-
gan to use their tools against the
strike-breakers, who were armed
with pistols.
The Russian sector police—
they are really a new totalitarian
army supplanting Hitler’s
Guards and organised much on
the same principle—arrived in
the zone of disturbance armed
with tommy-guns.
One striker had been killed
up to Monday morning’s advices
and more than 500 injured. Ber-
lin was in confusion, which was
added to because much of the
Russian action is taking place in
British and American zones, the
Russians being in legal control
of the railways.
Behind the direct cause of the
disturbance there were other
grievances. Against the policy
of the West rail-workers have
been forbidden by the Russians
to join any but Communist
unions and have been dismissed
if insubordinate on the point.
The whole incident is an
object lesson for Australian
workers in the dishonesty of the
Australian Communist party’s
advocacy of the strike weapon
and of the workers’ right to use
it free of interference from
the military power of the Gov-
ernment.
China and the World
Stage.
“Ek Dum”; The week has
further emphasised the weak-
ness and elusiveness of the
Chinese Nationalist Govern-
ment.
There is no evidence that it
is doing any fighting worth the
name. Its resistance round
Shanghai has been confined to
very limited areas and in some
places its troops apparently have
gone cheerfully over to the
enemy.
By the week-end the Com-
munists were reported to be
moving southwards fast, but the
reports were so vague as to leave
doubt about the numbers who
were moving and how fast.
It seems certain at any rate
that the way through central
China is wide open and that if
the Communists have only half
a dozen efficient divisions with
transport China is theirs.
In Shanghai they had closed
in so tightly that all business
had ceased in the great buildings
along the Bund, which had be-
come a military area from which
the few remaining Nationalist
soldiers watched the red belt of
Pootung across the Whangpoo,
where, during the Japanese-
occupation days, the local in-
habitants kept up a continual
sniping on Nipponese ships in
the river.
It is from the Pootung area,
on the approaches from the
southern side of the Peninsula,
that the first Communist shells
began to fall in the city late in
the week.
The real dangers in the situa-
tion lie in the chances of the
Communists becoming involved
in conflicts with Britain and the
United States. If their own
exultant shoutings of a few
months ago can be believed there
need be no question as to what
they intend towards Hong Kong
and the rest of British Asia,
And it is even more unlikely
that they will leave the American-
organised half of Korea alone.
The whole pattern of Russian
annexations and requisitions of
territory in Japanese-held Asia
in 1945-46 is militarily strategic
“ Prendergast! Why DID you join the Bird-lovers'
League?"
with a view to controlling the
Chinese and ultimately the
Japanese situation.
On May 20 the Chinese
Nationalist Yuan, meeting in
Canton, added another complica-
tion to the situation when it
decided to appeal to U.N.O. to
mediate in the civil war and
accused Soviet Russia of having
violated the Chinese-U.S.S.R.
treaty of friendship.
It seems that Dr. Evatt has
adjourned his ramshackle and
waterlogged Assembly just in
time to avoid having to deal
with the matter, a responsibility
which would put him, and par-
ticularly his Russian-nominated
secretary, in a fix. By the time
the Assembly meets again in
September the Chinese situation
may have settled itself.
The real danger lies not so
much in immediate happenings
as in the development of Russia’s
piecemeal plan to take over
Asia, this being the ultimate
objective of all the propaganda
for freeing India and other
countries from the “bloody
tyranny of the English jackals,”
to use Moscow’s own friendly
phrase toward the colonial ad-
ministration of the Kremlin's
British “ally.” It was estimated
quite accurately that the depart-
ure of the British would leave
all south-east Asia in chaos and
corruption, with Governments
unable to govern effectively and
certainly without the resources
to defend themselves —India col-
lects less revenue than Australia.
The position at present is
highly favorable to Russian
plans. Communist and fellow-
traveller propaganda has per-
suaded most of the world’s Press
that colonial rule is an evil thing,
while circumstances are now
proving that the alternative to
it for a long time to come must
be chaos.
■ Burma seems nearer to a solu-
tion of its difficulties only be-
cause it has turned to Britain
and other nations of the British
colonies to ask them to give aid
which would have been the
natural right of Burma if it had
remained in the Empire.
It must be humiliating for
Thakin Nu, a good Marxist,
who, a few months ago, was ex-
tolling the Russian way of Gov-
ernment, obviously hoping that
so soon as he and his Japanese-
collaborator friends had kicked
out the British, Moscow would
smile on them. They have found
instead that Moscow smiles on
nothing Burmese except its
Communists, and though it is
interested in Burma, it is only
because it aims to suck it com-
pletely behind the Iron Curtain
as a vital strategic area for the
conquest of the rest of southern
Asia.
It is almost impossible to
achieve unity of purpose be-
tween the non-Russian Powers
in Asia under present circum-
stances, just as it is impossible
to achieve any useful purpose
from an American point of view
through a defence pact with Aus-
tralia.
Such a pact at present would
be all defence on the United
States’ part and all pact on the
Australian part.
The situation is not the less
dangerous because it is relatively
slow in development. What the
United States thinks of it is
shown by the decision to stop
the export of further Japanese
industrial plant as reparations.
The time is coming within the
next few years when there will
be a tug-of-war for Japan, for
the Philippines and for the East
Indies and their oil, because a
Communist East Asia cannot be
maintained while these terri-
tories remain in other hands
forming a ring round the east-
ern part of the mainland.
Secrecy Again.
“Ek Dum”: It continues to
be reported from overseas that
Australia is being kept outside
the inner circle of information
about defence developments, be-
ing placed in the same class as
Pakistan and India.
Our men are not admitted to
certain schools as are the Can-
adians, and there is no doubt
as to the reason.
There is little question about
the authenticity of the shameful
position. A British War Office
spokesman has admitted that the
United States has insisted that
Australia and the other so-called
Dominions shall be excluded
from discussions on new war
equipment.
Mr. Chifley has failed to give
a straight answer about the
matter and contents himself with
abusing the newspapers. He has
“no comment on those who seek
to give the impression that their
.own country is not in free con-
sultation with other democratic
countries.”
If Australia is in free consul-
tation with other democratic
nations on the same basis of con-
fidence a§ the United Kingdom,
Mr. Chifley can confound his
critics by saying so plainly and
by inducing the British War
Office and the United States
Government to confirm his state-
ment without equivocation.
So far he hasn’t done this;
nor, unless the weight of infor-
mation from overseas is inac-
curate, does he seem to be likely
to do so.
A country whose Deputy
Prime Minister says he can
prove that the Communist party
follows the teachings of Christ
and a Prime Minister who, in
these days, regards Communism
as a political philosophy and no
more is scarcely likely to
achieve the confidence of any-
body with military secrets to dis-
pense at this period of history.
Especially is this so when the
Prime Minister justifies the em-
ployment of a Communist con-
victed of spying inside the de-
fence services in a branch (im-
portant from the defence view-
point) of the C.S.I.R.—a fellow
who, as late as 1947, abused
the British Government as
“jackals.” It is scarcely a
matter to increase confidence
when it is discovered that
one of the men who has
been appointed to the new de-
fence research board is Donald
Mountjoy, who was defeated for
his Federal seat of Swan at last
election, and pitchforked into
the C.S.I.R. executive by the
Government, despite the fact
that he had no qualifications
other than being a defeated poli-
tician.
During his period in Parlia-
ment Mountjoy was noted for
his remarks about the glories
of the Soviet Union. And
the honorable member once
made himself notorious by
misusing the privileges of Par-
liament to infer that the heaci
of an active anti-Communist
body in N. S. Wales was part-
owner of an assignation house,
a wicked statement made under
privilege which was disproved
to the hilt and the proof draw-
ing no apology from the slan-
derer nor expressions of horror
from his political leaders in the
Commonwealth Ministry.
Yet this defeated politician is
elevated to the scientific-research
board which will be the cus-
todian of all Australia’s war
secrets.
Which, if Mr. Chifley prac-
tises what he preaches and makes
the board the very heart of de-
fence, will mean all defence
secrets.


A
i
a
ft
-
r
\
>§>*■
DAM SHEETS, giving
details of the construc-
tion of the following ,
/arm buildings, are
now included in the
LVSAGHT COUNTRV
PLAN SERVICE;
{IMPLEMENT, GRAIN
AND CHAFF SHEDS
POULTRY SHEDS
SILOS
PIGGERIES
SHEARING SHEDS
TANKS
e
DAIRIES
YSAGHT
looks ahead
The Lysaght works,
Newcastle, N.S.W,
m*.
Sydney, Melbourne,, Brisbane, Adelaide, Fremantle.
LI 84-6886
Although galvanized iron is still difficult to secure
in many districts LYSASHT LOOKS AHEAD to
the day when the full requirements of the man
on the land can be met. In the meantime a
special COUNTRY SERVICE DEPARTMENT has
been established to assist the country user of the
company's products, with data sheets covering
the construction of a wide range of farm buildings.
To secure this valuable building information
address your inquiries to the SERVICE DEPT.,
John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd., 33 Macquarie
Place, Sydney, N.S.W.
'THAT*
This responsibility
is yours
Your beneficiaries have every right to expect that your
estate will be handled with the utmost care. If your
judgment is faulty, imprudent administration can endanger
assets built up by your energy and foresight. However, it
is a simple matter to provide competent control: the
appointment of Burns Philp Trust Company as executor
or trustee ensures that your beneficiaries will be protected
at every turn.
A copy of "Hands That Never Leave the Wheel" will be
forwarded on request. Full details of the Company s many
services are given in this interesting booklet.
DIRECTORS:
tifchell P. T. W. Black
SECRETARY: E.
Philp
James Burns Joseph 1
MANAGER; L. S. Parker
Burns
Eric Priestley Lee
R. Overton, A.F.I.A.
Trust
COMPANY LIMITED
EXECUTOR • TRUSTEE • AGENT
Constituted by Special Act of the N.S.W. Parliament.
Head Office: 7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
T„l • mi £9Ol Box 543, G.P.0.. Sydney
SUNDRY SHOWS
"Father Malachy's
Miracle."
The miracle which Father
Malachy undertakes to perform
—with the assistance of the
Almighty—in this gentle satire
by Brian Doherty (Independent
Theatre, North Sydney) is the
moving, holus-bolus, of a dance-
hall from Edinburgh to Bass
Rock in the Forth Estuary, some
20 miles away. He is goaded
into the undertaking by the lack
of faith of a “worldly” Anglican
parson whose twentieth-century
philosophy does not • include a
belief in miracles.
The minister is not alone in
his doubts. Father Malachy
himself is not without some mis-
givings, while Canon Geoghegan
bf the Church of St. Margaret
and his assistant, Father
Flaherty, are thrown into con-
sternation by Malachy’s pre-
sumptuousness in making such
a promise without any sign from
the Almighty—-“without even a
hint from a. minor Saint” —and
panic-stricken by the loss of
face the church will suffer if
the miracle fails to eventuate.
iliere is no failure, however.
At the appointed hour of 9 p.m.
there is only a hole in the ground
where the dance-hall had stood,
while the building itself is
perched on the rock in the Forth.
The repercussions, however, are
not what the good Father anti-
cipated. The owner of the
dance-hall wants damages, and
then commits the blasphemy of
using the miracle as a wonderful
advertisement for his establish-
ment ; the police come round
making suspicious inquiries ; the
press turns the affair into a
vulgar sensation; a promoter
arrives from America to buy the
exclusive rights; the bishop,
after some annoyance with all
the fuss and pother, also sees the
opportunity for some excellent
advertisement, and, finally, a
cardinal arrives from Rome with
the advice that the church has
miracles cropping up everywhere
all over the world, and does not
approve of the vulgar sensation-
alism attached to them, and that
it is not the duty of a single in-
conspicuous monk to presume to
the functions of the church by
trying to bring people to the
faith by sensational miracles.
Father Malachy solves the
problem with the same simple
faith that created it and returns
to his monastery, leaving the
church and its following to their
eternal problems, and giving
himself to study and devotion to
preserve some of the ideas and
thoughts which the church has
handed down through the cen-
turies.
In the Independent’s produc-
tion Peter Woodruff gives the
main role all the simple intensity
it requires—an excellent and un-
faltering performance. Charles
Caspersonn as the Bishop, Peter
Buchanan as the “worldly”
Anglican minister, and Paul Mc-
Naughton as Canon Geoghegan
lead a large cast very capably.
In a brief, dramatic appearance
as the Cardinal, Leigh O’Malley
establishes the sweep and power
and authority of the character
most effectively.
"Pygmalion."
The Kuring-gai Guild is play-
ing Shaw’s “Pygmalion” at its
Killara Theatre, not without
some difficulties, but, on the
whole, with an intelligent and
entertaining performance.
On the night this commentator
saw the play, Eliza Doolittle her-
self was in considerable trouble.
It is impossible to forget Wendy
Hiller’s beautifully precise per-
formance in the film, and, while
repertory cannot be expected to
produce Miss Hillers at random,
it can pick up a pointer or two
occasionally. In the Kuring-gai
group’s show Mary Hayward, as
Eliza, lost a line or two, showed
a good deal of nervousness that
was not Eliza’s and needed to
drill herself a lot more
thoroughly in the admittedly dif-
ficult task of her timing and
changing i accents.
Miss Hayward’s difficulties,
however, were to a large extent
glossed over by the excellent
assistance she received from the
players around her. O. D. Bisset
seemed to have no trouble in
meeting the requirements of
Higgins—“a vital appetising sort
of man impetuous baby
genial bullying..stormy petu-
lance but so entirely frank
and void of malice that he re-
mains likeable even in his least
reasonable moments.”
Peter Richards's Pickering
was quietly capable, and Walter
Hill, as Doolittle, ran off with
things whenever he appeared—
about the only criticism one
might make of his performance
was that the Welsh music was
lacking from his “native wood-
notes,” those superb lines: “I’m
willing to tell you. I’m wanting
to tell you. I’m waiting to tell
you.”
* * * *
Sydney Tiv. has four topnotch
acts on its current bill, “Starry
Nights.” Ivor Moreton and Dave
Kaye manage two pianos with
spectacular and glittering pre-
cision ; Maurice Colleano turns
on some of the funniest clown-
ing that the Tiv. has offered for
a long time, Oliver Wakefield’s
“voice of inexperience” is a dry
monologue assaying a couple of
laughs per sentence, and George
Andre Martin, “the man with the
dancing fingers,” does things
with his digits that few people
can accomplish with their whole
framework. The Tiv. lovelies,
some spectacular balancing from
the Juvelys and dancing from
the Hartnells and a measure of
warbling round off an excellent
bill.
Strauss's "Sinfonia
Domestica."
Forty-five years after Richard
Strauss conducted the world
premibre in New York of his
Domestic Symphony—which is
in effect a tone-poem—its Aus-
tralian premibre took place
last week, when Eugene
Goossens conducted the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra in the
work.
The genius of Strauss, whose
work, unlike that of most other
composers, deteriorated as he
grew older, already shows signs
of that early burning-out in this
work. There are passages of
rich orchestration, and phases
given over to'the higher strings
against a muted orchestra which
have the old Strauss charm, but
too much of the work is tedious,
with a painful striving after
effect, especially in the brass
passages. There is some slight
justification for the composer’s
claim that the chief theme at the
opening has “Haydnesque sim-
plicity,” but some of the sub-
sequent material would make the
late Franz Joseph H. crawl
around in his crypt.
Although he was at pains to
have the Sinfonia listened to as
“absolute” music Strauss ap-
pended a “programme”: for in-
stance, the Scherzo bears the
heading “Parents’ happiness—the
child at play,” and elsewhere we
are invited to listen to the child
gurgling in his bath. The
glockenspiel’s chiming of seven
and the lullaby certainly conjure
the domestic scene, but tedious-
ness rides the wave through most
of the rest.
Aleksander Helmann was the
soloist in Rachmaninoff’s Con-
certo No. 3. As well as turning
on an amazing display of
pianistic pyrotechnics, he gave
an exhibition of facial contor-
tion that should win him a
fortune in television. His phras-
ing, the virility and sureness of
his playing and his tonal corn-
mand were all superb. It was a
stirring performance of a work
which, though less emotional
than the more popular Second,
deserves, because of its greater
symphonic breadth, its more
tightly-knit unity of theme and
its more lively imaginative
qualities, a more frequent hear-
ing than it enjoys.
"The Magic Flute."
The silliest story on which
Mozart ever lavished lovely
music was repeated in the
National Theatre Movement’s
opera season at Melbourne
Princess, with much the same
cast as in the previous produc-
tion.
Stefan Haag, as Papageno,
made a comic masterpiece of the
part of the birdwatcher, and
Keith Neilson, whose basso was
outsanding, almost made an
interesting character of Sarastro.
Valda Bagnall was a dignified
Queen of the Night, and John
Dudley’s tenor made Tamino
into a credible figure.
The best concerted singing
came from the trio of black-
robed ladies, Halinka de
Tarczynska, Betty Fretwell and
Florence Madden. There was a
delicate finish about their per-
formance which the choruses
didn’t always emulate. Dr.
Herman Schildberger was a
reasonably efficient conductor.
Eunice Gardiner.
Giving her first recital since
her return from a venture over-
seas, the pianist Eunice Gardiner
gave an exposition of clean,
clear playing in a well-selected
programme. In Bach’s Chro-
matic Fantasy and Fugue Miss
Gardiner combined an unusual
strength and fire in the dramatic
recitative, the chromatic modu-
lations of the Fantasy being
carried through with elan, whilst
the arpeggio work in this sec-
tion was particularly impressive.
The austere eloquence of the
great Fugue was well main-
tained.
The lyrical qualities inherent
in the Chopin B Minor Sonata
admirably suited the talents of
this pianist, who is no longer
“highly promising” but has
“arrived.” The rhythms were
always gracefully finished off,
and where the bravura passages
were called for these were played
with a refreshing abandon.
Some of the best playing of
the night went into the Brahms’
Paganini Variations, Book 1.
This 24th Caprice of Paganini
has given a rich treasure to music,
and this first of the two sets of
variations on it which Brahms
wrote call for virtuosity of a
high order. Miss Gardiner did
not bring to their interpretation
dexterity alone, but an obviously
analytical mind. She succeeded,
where many fail in this work,
in “getting under” Brahms’
skin.
Some Liszt, Debussy and
Albeniz completed the pro-
gramme.


Year ’round living comfort*
f *:
CHIU
Mi
m
<
Insulate against weather extremes with \
, sans-aos
Cane-ite deflects cold as it deflects heat
Insulate and Decorate with
fWn^lf?o('l E 77i
CTunJljJls ° y u i
WALLS and CEILINGS
Sold by Hardware Stores and Timber Merchants everywhere
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
Building Materials Division
>1
u (
A
/
C
Ancestors of
an Industry
Sir J. J, Thomson showed that electricity
was conducted through gases at low pressure by
a stream of negatively charged particles, after-
wards named electrons. The charge on an electron
is the smallest quantity of electricity that can exist
and the electrons are so minute that 1,800 of them
weigh only as much as one hydrogen atom.
At the Cavendish Laboratory Thomson founded
a new school of physics dealing with the structure
of the atom. The work of this school led to the
present conception of the atom as a nucleus, which
made the atomic bomb possible.
Thomson was born in Manchester in 1856, and
was educated at Owens College (now the Victoria
University of Manchester) and Trinity College,
Cambridge, which he entered as a Minor Scholar
in 1876. While still in his twenties, he was elected
Cavendish Professor Experimental Physics, the
most distinguished post of its kind in the world. He
retained this appointment until he became Master
of Trinity in 1918. He was
awarded the Nobel Prize for
Physics in 1906, and before his
death in 1940 had received a
knighthood and the Order of Merit.
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
IL/WI6
SPORTING NOTIONS
YOUR SHOUT!
AND IT'S
RED MILL RUM
Despite a miserably rainy day and
a track which had already suffered
some 36 hours of solid drenching,
Tattersall’s Club proceeded with its
meeting at Randwick on Saturday,
after stewards had passed the track
as safe for racing; “safe” it may have
been, but fit it certainly • was not.
Attendance reached 20,000 and tote
turnover £72,100, compared with
figures of 34,000 and £134,500 for
the corresponding meeting last year.
It was particularly tough luck that
Tatts should have struck a day on
which they will almost certainly show
a loss, for the Club has generously
donated its principal racing date, in
September, to the Red Cross. Similar
gestures previously, in 1940, ’44 and
’45, have profited the Red Cross by
some £BO,OOO.
Scratchings were understandably
heavy, particularly among the top-
weights. Altogether, 29 were with-
drawn from an original total of 106
acceptors. In the Flying, the first
four in the weights came out, and in
another race the first three. Hardest
hit by the scratcher’s pen was the
James Barnes Plate with five scratch-
ings, leaving a field of six runners.
Punters seemed to be even more hay-
wire than usual regarding the Plate,
and the books readily took advan-
tage of their mood, cramping the
odds to such an extent that Laudus
started as rank outsider at 7 to 1.
Old Silver Link was installed
favorite at threes for the 10-furlongs
Barnes Plate, his principal, qualifica-
tions being that he recorded his last
win (seven months ago) on a heavy
track (the distance two miles) and
had once won over 10 furlongs—
three years ago. Silver Link finished
third, eight lengths behind the win-
ner, Air Flare (N. Sellwood). Con-
ceding the six-year-old Air Flare 31b.
m the weights, the good three-year-
old filly lolanda ran second, beaten
two lengths.
Half a dozen scratchings left a field
of nine for the 6-furlongs Flying
Handicap, and Trover became the
somewhat unexpected favorite at 3
to 1. Most of the trip Riptide was
in front, followed by Trover and,Mid-
wise, but, at the distance, Trover
collared Riptide and went on to beat
him easily, Midwise retaining third
place. The trainer of Riptide ex-
presses hope that his very disappoint-
ing colt may pick up a race or two
when the better sprinters go north
for the Doomben Ten Thousand, but
the aged Trover can hardly be
regarded as one of the “better
sprinters.”
While the leading jocks, Sellwood
and Thompson, gave their followers
a lean time, apprentice riders had a
great day at Randwick, and several
times had the better of the senior
hoops in hard-fought finishes. In
addition to taking the Flying on
Trover, young Selkrig won the
Juvenile Stakes for fillies on Burn-
court, who beat Sellwood’s mount,
Foxbride, by a neck. Sellwood also
went down on Brig o’ Boon, favorite
for the 10-furlongs Novice, and beaten
a nose by Bay Rex, vigorously ridden
by the 71b.-allowance lad G. Iddles.
J. Thompson chewed his morsel of
humble pie when Drastic, hot favorite
for the Three- and Four-year-old
Handicap, lost by a half-length to
Khedive, with P. Webb in the saddle;
Webb also claims the 71b. allowance.
Down now to a 51b. allowance, W.
Hughes took the Welter on Carib-
bean, beating Double Strength in a
hairline finish which compelled the
judge to call for three prints of the
photo before making his decision.
The Two-year-old for colts and geld-
ings went to Socrates (E. Cracknell),
with the 50-to-l chance Seaman a
close second. A bay colt by Valiant
Chief-Lady Courteous, Socrates had
started at very long odds in his three
previous outings, but improvement
was evidently expected on Saturday;
Socrates opened in the betting at
15 to 1 and was backed in to nines.
* * * *
A pleasantly mild afternoon en-
sured a good crowd at Moonee Valley
on Saturday, though the heavy over-
night rain had left the track in pretty
soggy state. Horses high in the
weights had a poor trot, and so, for
that matter, did most punters.
Based as they are on the experience
of a century or so of racing, the
rules of the game are not to be
lightly chopped about. However, the
rule which declares a horse to be a
starter once it has come under the
starter’s control seems unnecessarily
tough on the punter and a denial of
the accepted betting principle that
you can’t lose without having had a
chance to win. In any case, without
tampering with the rules, surely it is
possible to provide a substitute when
a rider is injured before a start is
effected.
Victims on Saturday of the present
ruling were backers of Zenith, who
did not contest the second Puckle
Handicap after tossing and injuring
his rider, L. Lott, prior to the start.
Zenith was a 10Q-to-l chdnce; it
would be interesting to see the same
thing happen to a red-hot favorite
in, say, the Melbourne Cup.
While backers of Zenith were left
lamenting, the second division of the
Puckle pleased the majority of
punters, providing, as it did, the only
winning favorite of the day in Valsari
(A. Breasley). After seeing his own
Dhoti filly, Dusky Rose, beaten by
Simon Pure (T. Unkovich) in the
first division of the Puckle the result
of the second division provided some
compensation for studmaster E. A.
Underwood, owner of Dhoti. Val-
sari, Kiton and Beau News, filling
the places in that order, were all
three by Dhoti.
Following a string of five successive
winning favorites over the jumps in
“Of course , we Wouldn’t expect you to teach us all you
know in one lesson.”
recent weeks, Saturday saw the good
things finish down the track in both
the Ardmillan Hurdle and the Lindsay
Gordon Steeple. El Regis struggled
along to no avail under a plaster of
11.5 in the Hurdle, which went to
Midhurst (A. Moon) with Sir Nolle
and Fairy Fable in the places. The
rider of Sir Nolle lodged an un-
successful protest. The aged Bravia
gelding Sequence (B. R. Smith), in
the Steeple, for which Don Gipsy
was favorite, showed the opposition
up as the poor bunch which, in fact,
they were. Sequence led throughout,
was easing up half-way down the
straight, and won by 12 lengths from
Kingly. Nothing in either the Hurdle
or the Steeple impressed as likely to
enter Grand National considerations.
Quite the best performance of the
day at Moonee was the success of
the Agincourt filly Queen’s Court in
the mile Belinda Handicap for three-
year-olds. Notching up her third suc-
cessive win. Queen’s Court lumped a
solid burden of 8.11, led all the way,
and was, if anything, going away
from Derrymore, Neptunian and the
others at the finish. The 13-furlongs
joueney of the Empire Handicap
enabled Britisher (S. Ralph) to get
up with his late but brilliant finishing
run and beat Vantage and Iron
Crown, while in the Coburg High-
weight (6f.) Purtell had High Produc-
tion always in a winning position to
score nicely from Leonatus and
Decorate.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before accept-
ances :
Two - year - old Maiden (fillies):
Shasta, 1; French Rose, 2; Foxbride,
3. Two-year-old Maiden (colts and
geldings); Wonder Chief, 1; Heritor,
2; Coronation Gift, 3. Ashbury
Mixed (6f.): Susan, 1; Ashtray, 2;
Brighton, 3, Burwood Mixed (9f.);
Double Strength, 1; Brig o’ Doon, 2 ;
Peter Blue, 3. Flying: Deep Sea, 1;
Penmore, 2; Cadet, 3. May Handi-
cap: Bay Rex, 1; Air Flare, 2;
lolanda, 3. Welter: Caribbean, 1;
Drastic, 2; Parfait, 3.
* * * *
Mentioning that “Sir Donald has
often been called the ‘Babe Ruth of
cricket,’ ” N. Y. “Times’’ holds the
mirror up to a facet of Americana:
“It is fortunate that we do not have
knighthoods in this country. With
our propensity for overfilling the cup,
there would be more Sirs and Ladies
around than could be easily accom-
modated. Sir Donald is one in a
century. We would not be content
with a ‘Sir Babe’ alone. We would
have a new ‘Sir Joe,’ a ‘Sir Ted,’ a
‘Sir Lou’ every time the yearly
averages were released. That is, we
would have, or the adherents of the
newest hero would organise a march
on Washington. So, we salute Sir
Donald with admiration, but without
any regrets that we cannot match his
title with a sports knight of our own.”
* * * *
Played a week or so back, the South
Californian tennis championships
produced one match at least which
should find a place in the record-
books. In- the doubles, Schroeder
and Falkenburg beat Gonzales and
Stewart three sets to one, but had to
play 125 games; the first set ran to
36-34.
* * * *
Things seemed a mite topsy-turvy
in the football world on Saturday,
with an inter-State ’Rules match
being played in the heart of the
Rugger country at Brisbane and the
Melbourne Cricket Ground consider-
ably startled to find itself playing
host to a Rugby Union match. In
the ’Rules match, N.S.W. v. Queens-
land, at Brisbane, a crowd of 13,000
tore their larynxes to shreds as the
home team, after leading with five
minutes to play, went down fighting;
the ’Walers took the match 17.14-
14.23. The Rugby Union show in
Melbourne, with the touring Maoris
meeting a . combined Southern States
team, was too much of a walkover
to arouse the crowd of 10,000 to any
enthusiasm. The Maoris won 35-8.
* * * *
In Sydney, Rugby Union club
games were played for the most part
in steady rain, with all the grounds
bogs. Floundering around in their
attempts to handle a soggy and
slippery lump of pigskin, St. George
beat Norths 18-6, Eastwood downed
Drummoyne 8-3, Gordon trounced
Wests 17-3, Easts just scraped home
against Parramatta 8-6, and, in the
main game, Manly overcame the
strong Randwick team 5-0. The
touring ’Varsity team went under
11-8 in an unspectacular game v.
New Zealand Universities.
* * * *
The onward march of Geelong was
stopped by Carlton, V.F.L. leaders,
on Saturday. The Blues’ aerial work
and pace kept them in front all the
time to an 18.13-12.10 victory.
Match of the day was at Colling-
wood, where the Magpies, down 25
points at the final change, staged a
grand burst to overhaul Essendon
and win by a point, 11.16-12.9, right
on the bell. The other good game
was put up by the rejuvenated Foots-
cray, which gave Fitzroy a fright by
leading 5.7-4.7 at half-time. A bad
third quarter for ’Scray put ’Roy
over four goals in front, but ’Scray
came at ’em in the last and lost by
only four points and bad kicking,
12.14-10.22. Melbourne could manage
only 8.13 to 4.13 against St. Kilda,
Richmond ran all over South Mel-
bourne for 15.13 to 8.12, and North
kicked 13.23 to Hawthorn’s 12.7.
* * * *
Although he earned full marks for
gameness, Ken Goddard (10.9£) could
not match the superior skill of Ted
Prior (10.8|) in the'ir Leichhardt bout,
and Goddard was well beaten on
points. Spotting a shade of weight,
Prior was nevertheless more aggres-
sive than Goddard, and often forced
his man on to the ropes, there to
indulge in about equal quantities of
fighting and cuddling. This brought
a complaint from Goddard’s second
at the end of round five, but the ref.
could have pointed out that Goddard
was free to fight Prior off if he
wished. Prior did more
long-range fighting later,
and ran out winner of
practically every round.
* * *
Many American box-
ing authorities maintain
that there is no such
decision as a t.k.o. Nat
Fleischer lends support
by eliminating the term
from the latest edition
of his Ring Record
Book and explaining in
a foreword:
“In these records,
when a fighter has been
stopped, whether by
tossing in the sponge,
through the action of a
referee, because of in-
juries or for any cause
other than fouling, the
editor has placed k.o.
to the credit of the vic-
tor. Under the rules of
boxing, when a boxer is
halted he Joses by a
knockout. There is no
such thing as a ‘tech-
nical’ knockout.”
However, in his same
Ring Record, Fleischer
has to report one bout in which
a k.o. decision would seem a bit
tough on the victim. Up against
Lee Oma in a bout at Syracuse last
August, one Howard Chard, on
coming out to join battle in the
first round, was seized with a cough-
ing fit and sat down on the canvas
to recover. The ref. at once started
counting, and when he reached “10”
Chard was still sitting and still
coughing. Oma was thereupon
awarded the fight on a k.o. without
a blow having been struck. Here,
Chard would presumably have been
disqualified for going down without
being hit.


For immediate delivery contact
Famous British
ENGINES
are
NOW
AVAILABLE
at
REDUCED
PRICES
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY. LTD.
’PHONE: MA 6311 7-11 MARKET ST., SYDNEY
02
m
)
SAIO dMRB#
1 0 MIS OkO
WIPE JOAN
"We, side by side, have aged and grown,
But here I tell you, plump and plain,
You shall not poultice me again!
There’s something new to cure one faster.
Of cough or cold than mustard plaster.
No more these blisters I’ll endure,
I’ll purchase Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.”
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cur©
For Stubborn Coughs, Colds
HTS
LYS
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
~"-«*' -U '• '“'
- - /','*/ '. «*#» - y '
' ~» ' TWrn** , .i,..^.^.
*
M
ESTABLISHED 1884
'
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
\ Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Reg’d Office & Works, Blackwall Pt. Road, Five Dock.
City Office, 17 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHfS
WIRE
Lambing Ewes.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS
“Myrrhee”: Accustom in-
lamb ewes to the quiet move-
ment of men among them ; this
applies particularly to expectant
ewes on their first lamb. The
tendency of young ewes to bolt
can be checked by mixing them
with older ewes and keeping
dogs well away from the flock.
Use a small pen in the paddock
where the flock is running for
ewes which refuse their lambs.
Isolated from the flock, most of
them soon take to their young.
The pen can also be used to in-
duce ewes which have lost their
own lambs to adopt an orphan
or a twin.
Crutch about four weeks be-
fore lambing. This reduces fly-
strike and enables the lamb to
be born and to suckle under
better conditions. At lambing
the ewes need to be in good con-
dition, but not fat; most losses
occur when the nutritional plane
is falling as lambing-time ap-
proaches.
Pastures Sown with Wheat.
“He-Ne”: At least one wheat-
grower who sowed a pasture
with his 1947 wheat is now
being rewarded for a good farm-
ing practice. J. Bell, of Elong
(N.S.W.), sowed 90 acres of
wheat in May, 1947, and with it
lilb. of lucerne per acre.
Throughout the past season
(second year of the pasture-
growth) Bell has carried up to
700 sheep on the 90 acres for
periods of from four to six
weeks at a time. Up to the end
of April the paddock was run-
ning 400 sheep, which had been
there for the previous six weeks,
and the lucerne was still about
six inches high. In February
last it would have been possible
to have obtained a cut for hay
if labor and suitable equipment
had been available. Incidentally,
the wheat sown with the lucerne
yielded 30 bushels per acre.
If more farmers followed
Bell’s practice N.S.W. could fat-
ten thousands of baby steers and
add heavily to its fat-lamb crop.
More pasture seed has been
sold by Leeton (N.S.W.) firms
this season than over the last
five years. The local agronomist
(W. R. Watkins) said this
autumn and early winter had
proved an all-time record for
pasture-sowings throughout the
Leeton end of the M.I.A. Sub-
clover and Wimmera rye-grass is
the only mixture sown, but
Short-term Rotation rye, a new
grass from New Zealand, is
being included.
Majority of large-area irriga-
tion-farmers are realising the
importance of pasture inclusion
in the rice-rotation system, and
at the same time are cutting
wheat out of the rotation. With
proper management pastures are
more suitable and economical
than wheat. Indications are
there is to be a big swing over
to pastures and stock from now
on. Many dry farmers around
Barellan, Colinroobie, Kamarah
and Grong Grong have included
Wimmera rye with their wheat
and oat sowings this year. High
prices of sheep and wool have
made these men realise the wis-
dom of including a pasture grass
with cereal to improve stubble
grazing, increase stocking
capacity and control soil ero-
sion. Increased stocking means
more animal manure being sup-
plied to the land, and this adds
to soil fertility and increases the
power of the soil to retain mois-
ture.
Production of Jerseys.
“Rooster”: “Aerogenes” (B.
11/5/ ’49) picks me up for say-
ing that Jerseys are apt to give
up weakly in adverse condi-
tions. By adverse conditions I
mean not merely ranges of tem-
perature, climatic extremes or
even ravages by pests but
generally bad conditions. Let
me illustrate. This Gippsland
area in 1938 had a succession of
extremely violent thunderstorms.
The Jerseys reacted by with-
holding their maximum yield.
They were frightened and ex-
tremely nervous. The Short-
horns took no notice of the freak
weather. So much for the un-
predictable disposition of the
breed.
On production a few figures
will suffice. Over a period of
a decade the folhjwing averages
for the main breeds tell their
own story. Individual cham-
pionships are another matter.
(1) Jerseys, annual average of
butterfat, 350-4001 b.; (2) Guern-
seys, very little difference; (3)
Friesians, 340-3801 b.; (4) Ayr-
shire, 240-3001 b.; (5) Kerry,
240-2801 b.; (6) A. 1.5., 300-
3601 b.; (7) Red Poll, 280-3201 b.
These figures are compiled from
Australian and New Zealand
stud herd records. They show
that the Jersey, as a producer,
still leads the way, but by
no means predominantly. It
wouldn’t take much to tip the
scales against them. And their
sensitiveness compels many
owners to watch the hired hands
very closely during milkings.
Even a change of milking-hands
will upset some of them. Any
measure of ill-treatment may
make them habitually nervous.
I grant, as originally, that the
Jersey still holds pride of place
in the dairying industry and
that it is easy on the feed. But
if you look at it from a strictly
unprejudiced angle the Short-
horn and Friesian are making a
bold bid to compete with it. It
is significant, too, that the most
popular cross is the Jersey-
Shorthorn.
Grading Potatoes.
“Spud”: “Rooster’s” method
(B. 11/5/’49) is crude and re-
quires unnecessary labor. His
built-up platform and covering
of straw, fern or ti-tree labor-
iously gathered from “the Lord
knows where” is not in keeping
with modern practice.
A similar expenditure of labor
and material would produce a
host of proper seed-trays which,
placed in racks to any reason-
able height, could be per-
manently protected from the
weather. By this method light
and ventilation can be con-
trolled and the tubers, tray by
tray, can be freely and fre-
quently inspected or handled.
Soundly-constructed trays and
racks will last many years.
“Rooster’s” method of seed
selection is also out of tune.
Doesn’t he know that the greater
“Last circus horse I’LL ever buy!”
proportion of small tubers from
any average crop are developed
ffom virus-infected plants or
from those possessing a heritage
of low productivity? In other
words, from culls. By his
method of seed-selection these
mongrel tubers are used to
propagate successive crops until,
in the course of a few years, he
finds that his culls are produc-
ing only culls.
Failing a properly-established
and thproughly-rogued seed-
plot, there is one infallible
method by which, year by year,
the yield of tubers may be in-
creased to any extent that other
controlling circumstances will
permit.
Adopting the established
theory “like begets like,” potato-
growers should select next year’s
seed from the fork while dig-
ging the main crop. Almost re-
gardless of size, they should
select only seed from strong,
vigorous, heavy-yielding plants.
By their strength and vitality
these plants are proved disease-
free or disease-resistant, and in
each successive year their
selected offspring will have a
greater heritage of health and
prSductivity, By this method
the average yield of potato crops
in N.S.W. could be doubled or
trebled. Seed size plays a very
minor part in crop yield, but
parentage, allied to good hus-
bandry, is all-important.
Testing seed of various sizes,
I got the best results from strong,
thick, vigorous shoots attached
to a piece of potato-skin no
bigger than a shilling. Shoots
were planted no more than a
foot apart in the rows, the per-
centage of small tubers was
almost nil and the crop aver-
aged tons.
Cane-cutting.
“Beroo”: Although it is diffi-
cult in these days of cutter-
shortage for the cane-farmer to
get the cane topped at the right
height, some recent work by C,
W. Waddell, technical adviser to
the -Queensland Canegrowers’
Council, has shown that any im-
provement the farmer can effect
will pay well. The correct height
is at the topmost fully-formed
section of the stick, and varia-
tions of a few inches either way
can result in quite large losses ;
if the cutting be too high the
low-sijgar, leafy “cabbage” re-
duces the average c.c.s., if too
low a tonnage of sweet-cane is
left in the paddock.
Figures quoted showed that a
properly-topped crop of about
20 tons per acre with a c.c.s. of
14 would return a net £3B 10s.
per acre; topping at the “bull’s
eye,” that is, the growing point,
in the same crop would yield
£37 4s. per acre and a topping
about 10 inches below the cor-
rect point would give only
£36 15s. The proper point of
topping is not so easy to define
in cane which has flowered.
Care of Brush Gear.
“Metax”; Regular care of
brush gear on electrical machines
is well repaid in trouble saved.
The screws securing the pigtails
which carry the brush current
should be kept tight and the pig-
tails themselves kept clear of
other parts and not allowed to
interfere with the freedom to
slide off the brushes in the
holders. At intervals the springs
should be released, brushes lifted
out of holders and dust cleaned
out. Dust should be kept out
of bearings or armature wind-
ings, which may be protected
with pieces of clean rag during
dust removal.
For brushes in good condition
the area in contact with com-
mutator or slip-rings will be
smooth, shiny and free from
ridges. There may be some pit-
ting in parts and a little chip-
ping at the edges. The spring
tension on the brushes needs to
be just sufficient to provide con-
stant contact. Excess pressure
only increases wear. Oil should
not be used, but the commutator
or slip-rings may be lightly
rubbed occasionally with a block
of paraffin or a vaseline rag.
New brushes may be bedded
by drawing a strip of fine emery-
sheet between brush and com-
mutator with the spring pres-
sure on. The cutting side of the
emery is towards the brush, and
the smooth side is made to slide
back and forth a few times
against the commutator. This
brings the brush contact surface
to the correct curvature. After
running for a short time the
brush contact areas will show
up smooth and shiny.
If necessary these areas may
be gently scraped to give a larger
bearing area, but if sparking or
heating is absent this refinement
is not essential, and the brushes
may be left to complete their
own bedding with running wear.
Properly bedded and tensioned
brushes on a commutator or
slip-rings in good condition
should run sparkless and cool,
be free from working troubles
and give long life ; but brushes
do wear out, and this is
quickened if sparking or over-
heating occurs. These symp-
toms should be watched for and
the cause sought and removed.
For Branding Bags.
“Nubis”: To make a
bag - branding machine,
build a frame to hold
three horizontal rollers,
one above the other, as
in a clothes-wringer. The
bottom roller, which
should be covered with
felt, runs in a tray con-
taining ink. The central
roller holds the stencils ;
it can be made from the
drum of an old thresher, with
the spikes removed. To this are
attached horizontal slats, to hold
the stencil, which is made from
iin. rubber tacked to the slats.
The upper roller should be fairly
heavy. Mount- the lower two
cylinders in bearings and the
upper one in slotted guides, so
that it can be raised up and
down. A lever and foot-treadle
can be added for this purpose.
A crank-handle will be required
to operate the device.
When attaching the stencils,
the lettering should read from
right to left and the individual
letters should be back-to-front,
as if seen in a mirror. To
operate the machine, turn it a
few times to ink the stencils,
depress the treadle, insert the
bag between the top two rollers,
and feed it through as if wring-
ing clothes.
Small Tools.
“Radian”: At least one
hammer is needed when working


cm,
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
teen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
IH[ WENTWORTH
ut
<S.
T n 7
Thone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Nu-METAL
SAVES
ENGINE NEW
REBORE RINGS
Just pour RE-NTJ liquid NU-METAL
through plug holes. NU-METAL will re-
condition your motor while you drive;-
Permanently films pits and scores. Ends
piston slap and lost compression. Guaran-
teed 10,000 miles, and harmless to finest
engine. NU-METAL has been proved and!
tested by over 100,000 users since 1934.
many owners having used NU-METAXJ
three and four times in the same engine.!
NU-METAL comes to you in a separ-1
ate tube for each cylinder, thus eliminat-i
ing guess work. Municipal Councils,!
Engineers, etc., use NU-METAL. Treatment!
costs for 1,4, 6, 8 cylinders, 10/6, 30/-,j
37/6, 45/-, Call, write, or phone MA7250.)
Mail Orders post free. C.O.D.’s plus
Postal Charges.
ORDER FORM
Please forward me by return NU-
METAL to treat a Cylinder Engine.
I enclose Cheque—P.N.
Or please send me illustrated Folder
describing action of NU-METAL.
Name
Address.
B. 26/6/’49
BRISTOL TRADING COMPANY
Ist -Floor, Bristol House,
147 Elizabeth Street, Sydney. MA7250.
SMOKERS
PIPE TOBACCOS THAT ARE
BLENDED TO GIVE
SATISFACTION TO ALL.
HOUSE OF MURPHY. A blend of
the highest grade of leaf to give a
cool smoke of satisfaction that men
prefer. 22/- per lb. Posted.
A.A.A. HILLTOP. A blend of
Australian, American and African.
20/- per lb. Posted.
WINSTON BEADY RUBBED
CIGARETTE TOBACCO. Greatly
improved by better blending of
mature leaf. 24/- per lb. Posted.
Special Quotes to Retailers for lots 20lb.
weight or over.
Write to: Cash Order Dept.,
Hillman Trading Co..
Commercial Road, Brisbane.
Postage paid , on Cash with order.
Postage extra on C,O,D. Orders.
if vou
WERE
THERE
Yourself
m
mm
... your wool could receive
no greater attention, for A.M.L.&F. experts are at work
in your interests at every stage—valuing, lotting and
displaying your wool to the best advantage. Yon are
always assured of the best possible price when the
“A.M.L.&F. man** sells
your wool!
86 Years In tha Service of the Man on the Land
INC. IN ENGLAND. 1863.
A.M.L S .P
AUSTRALIAN, MERCANTILE, LAND & FINANCE COY. LTD.
4 HUGH STREET, SYDNEY
AND AX MELBOURNE AND BRISBANE.
Country Branches—N.S.W.: Newcastle, Wagga, Henty, Hay, Cowra,
Scone, Moree, Garah, Wee Waa, Brewarrina. Q’ld: Townsville,
Charleville, St. George, Cunnamulla, Dirranbandi. Assoc. Agents;
McPhie & Co. Pty., Ltd., Toowoomba, Oakey, Dalby and Pittsworth.
LANES
DOC
TRAPS
/'I
%
made in
AUSTRALIA
j
8" Jaws
Folding Springs
OBTAINABLE FROM
ALL STORES &
PASTORAL SUPPLY HOUSES
TILLEY. LAMPS
WATCH FOR—
“HAPPY" MANTLES
THIS ENTIRELY NEW AND PATENTED
FEATURE OF GENUINE “TILLEY” MANTLES
WILL SURPRISE AND DELIGHT YOU.
NO MORE FIDDLING
WHEN FITTING!!
SUPPLIES ARE NOW ON THE WAY TO
AUSTRALIA FROM OUR FACTORY.
ASK YOUR LOCAL DEALER OR, IF IN ANY
.DIFFICULTY, WRITE TO OUR AUSTRALIAN
REPRESENTATIVES:—
T. H. BENTLEY, Pty. Ltd.
123-125, WILLIAM STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l.
ĵ
THE TILLEY LAMP COMPANY LTD. OF ENGLAND
on machinery, and two are
convenient. A ball-pein of lib.
to lilb. weight is handiest, and
a heavy flogging hammer of the
double-faced variety for tight
keys, dismantling heavy parts
and straightening bent iron-
work. Never use a hammer
directly on any part which is
likely to bruise or swell under
the blows. Hold a piece of soft
brass rod or a hardwood block
against the part and hit that.
In many cases—removing a
tapered fitting from a shaft, for
example—one solid blow with a
heavy hammer is much more
effective and does less damage
than repeated tapping with a
light one.
Cold-chisels play a big part
m repair work, but not tor turn-
mg nuts, except in emergency.
Two sizes of flat chisel are de-
suable with a blade width of
jin. and lyin. respectively. A
range of alloy-steel chisels is
now available that can be
sharpened with an ordinary file.
A small round-nosed chisel is
particularly useful for picking
ends of broken studs out of cast-
mgs and removing threaded
ends which have broken off in
pipe fittings.
A few punches are required,
particularly 3 medium - sized
centre-punch and pin-punches
with |in. and iin. tips respec-
tively. Several short lengths of
round steel in varying sizes
from fin. to lin. are useful for
driving out tight pins, bolts and
bushings, A hacksaw frame is
essential, adjustable to different
lengths of blades. Selection is
mostly a matter of taste. A
hacksaw frame must be strong
enough to stand a blade being
strained dead tight and hold it
that way without buckling.
Three sizes in screwdrivers
will handle practically every-
thing—lOin. heavy blade, 6in.
narrow blade and one small one
for electrical connections, etc.
One pair of heavy combina-
tion pliers is necessary, while one
of the long-nosed and one multi-
grip type are very useful,
although not absolutely essential.
When buying pliers hold them
up to the light and note if the
jaws meet squarely at the tips
when fully closed. Many pliers
will not hold fine wire or extract
small split-pins because the jaws
meet at the heels and not at the
tips.
Weed Control.
“K.W.R.”: Weed-destruction
can be achieved at a fraction
of former cost with boom spray
equipment, several types of which
are now available in Queensland.
Recently a 40ft. spray boom
attached to a motor-lorry travel-
ling at four m.p.h. covered an
acre every three minutes and
distributed 12 to 15 gallons of
spray. The unit was equipped
with standard fine border sprays,
but when newer sprays become
available the quantity per acre
can be reduced to as low as 2\
gallons, which will mean a vast
saving in time and water.
With such easily-killed weeds
as wild turnip, the burrs and
khaki weed, cost per acre has
been reduced to a remarkably
low A welded-steel
structure supports the two ex-
tended arms of the boom, which
can be folded back to allow pas-
sage through gateways. The
arms can be lowered close to
the ground in windy weather, or
raised for working in tall crops
and over fences.
The power unit is a 1-h.p.
4-cycle air-cooled petrol engine
with brass gear-pump, which
serves the dual purpose of filling
the vats and operating the spray
boom. A bypass allows the
spray boom to be shut off with-
out stopping the engine. There
is a larger trailer spray-unit with
60ft. spread, which can be
operated either by its own engine
or by power take-off from a
tractor. It is shod with pneu-
matic tyres and has a capacity
of 200 gallons.
Hints for the Farm.
“Bill Q”: Paterson’s curse is
spreading freely in parts of cen-
tral Queensland. For some rea-
son many noxious weeds seem
to make their appearance in the
C.Q. towns before they spread to
the farming and grazing areas.
In the grazing paddocks the
greatest aid to encroaching
weeds is overstocking, which, by
stunting or checking the grasses,
gives the weeds a free go.
“Sarina”: Old bones that ac-
cumulate around farms where
beasts are killed should be saved
and burned to ash. They make
an ash very rich in phosphorus.
Store this in sacks and use as a
top-dressing in the vegetable
garden.
“Myrrhee”: Horses with
strong feet and working on soft
ground may be worked without
shoes, but the hooves then need
to be examined regularly and
the wearing surface kept level.
Any unevenness, especially in a
young horse, may cause malfor-
mation in a limb. When using
the rasp take care not to remove
the outer surface of the hoof.
Watch the frog; never interfere
with it oh any account except to
remove loose fragments of
foreign matter, and also keep the
paring-knife away from the sole
and bars of the heel. If natural
growth of the hoof isn’t suffi-
cient to keep pace with wear take
Neddy to the farrier for a new
set of shoes.
“Rooster”: When whitewash-
ing shed interiors, mix to an even
consistency. If surplus skim-
milk is available, use it in pre-
ference to water. Add about
loz. of alum to a gallon of the
mixture ; this prevents flaking in
hot, dry weather. Scrape off the
old whitewash where possible.
Where excrement has collected,
scrub thoroughly with soapy
water. Wash the brush after
each use. The dairy needs a
double coat to last a full year.
“Cloudy”: Instead of wiping
brushes against the bench or
shed-posts when cleaning them,
brush them on the handles of
garden tools. It stops the wood
from splintering and becoming
roughened. Meanwhile, clean
the tools after use and give the
handles a wipe over with an oily
rag. If they are in a bad state
rub them down first with sand-
paper.
“Waddlin’ Willie”; Soldering
radio joints or broken wires (B.
4/ 5 / ’49) is far more difficult
than “Sarina” leads us to believe.
Dirty soldered joints are the
cause of most of the trouble in
radio-receivers today. When a
dirty or loose joint is discovered,
first melt off the old solder and
discard it. Next clean both parts
thoroughly with fine glasspaper
or a razor-blade, applying a
thin coat of radio-flux before
any dirt is lodged. Tin the pieces
by applying solder (resin-cored
not compulsory). Then place
the pieces together, apply the
hot iron and they will be joined
for all time. Remember to
always keep the soldering-iron
clean and don’t let it get too
hot or it will have to be retinned.
“Billjim”; A 5 per cent, dust-
ing of D.D.T. mixed with super,
is successful in controlling the
red-legged earth mite, but not so
successful against the lucerne-
flea. Gammexane promises
better against the latter.


*1
fruSAdee
St
m
CLOTH
1
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Grime
does
V
m.
m
m
m
m
m
mmm
»»
w
888888
M
i s
' ;iil
i
i rr/
e
VACUUM
ouAiirr product
Keep your
Engine Clean
with
A clean engine gives perfect
lubrication, improved perform-
ance, longer engine life, quicker
starting and complete protection
at all speeds and temperatures.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
MOBILOIL
SMOKE-OH!
PIMM'S No. 1 CUP
The No. 1 Dink
for wise men
‘Skirts are rising again and neck-
lines are dropping.”
—Sydney “Sunday Herald. v
More material is going to
waist.
4* 4*
“There are lovely sift shades in
rust, fawn, green.”— Sydney “D.T’’
/ Which present no strain on
the eyes.
•i* >J<
“We might say the people of
Britain are miserably happy and
happily miserable.” — Melbourne Uni-
versity Professor of Commerce G. L.
Wood.
But their rations show that
they are still not fed up.
*i* 4*
“Bad people have no song in their
hearts.” — “Sunday Sun.’ 1 ’
Unless it’s a hymn of hate.
“Girls in their 30’s are at their
best, beautiful and able to take care
of their beauty.”— Sydney “Daily
Telegraph” correspondent.
They have no lines, not even
marriage ones.
Tom o’ Bedlam.
“Tomcats that howl and wail at
night are not lovesick, tmt simply
issuing fighting challenges to other
tomcats, says a noted American
scientist.” —Sydney “Sunday Sun.”
I always thought the cat that
prowls
On chimney-pots, its charms
parading,
Was giving vent to fearsome
howls
As part of lovelorn serenad-
ing.
But if, as scientists believe.
Defiance is the real solution
I can't rejoice but merely grieve
That cats are low in evolution.
For if they were endowed with
sense.
Instead of spending hours in
skiting
With woeful wailing they’d dis-
pense
And issue challenges in writ-
ing.
BERT.
A Deep Mystery.
“According to the New York
‘Times’ one of the mysteries of the
Orient is the Soviet Embassy in
Bangkok, which has scarcely any
Russian nationals. Of the 60 housed
in the Embassy only four are diplo-
mats; the rest are family members
and ‘servants.’ ”
In a Press interview the Soviet
Ambassador, Mr. S. Pionajo-
vitch, said there was nothing
unusual in having such a large
staff. Sometimes as many as
three important papers would
arrive in the weekly diplomatic
bag, and this not only entailed an
enormous amount of clerical
work, but other work by the
staff as well. For instance, it
would be necessary on these oc-
casions for all the Embassy door-
nobs to be polished and the car-
pets taken up and beaten. If a
very important paper arrived,
or was sent, it might be neces-
sary to have all the chimneys
swept and the kapok in the
second secretary’s mattress re-
teased.
Another point to remember,
the Ambassador went on, was
that the enormous prestige which
the U.S.S.R. enjoyed in the
Orient made it imperative to
have a large staff doing nothing
else than see that the Soviet flag
flew properly at the Embassy’s
flagstaff. It was also necessary
to have a large staff of domestic
servants to uphold the dignity
that was the just right for the
accredited diplomatic representa-
tives of a country which single-
handed had defeated the
Japanese, and this despite the
fact, which the whole world now
knew, that the British and
American forces were really
Fascist-minded, and had left all
the fighting to the Soviet.
Asked by a British corres-
pondent how it was that there
was such a preponderance of
personal servants to perform
menial tasks for the representa-
tives of a country which boasted
that it had abolished all class
distinctions, the Ambassador,
hurriedly saying that the current
scarcity of fish in Siam was
probably caused by some seismic
disturbance off the coast,
abruptly closed the interview.
An unsigned and remarkably-
restrained article in “Depravda,”
widely believed to have been
written by Joe himself, says “The
low suspicions of the Western
Imperialist Press offal which
emits its vomit at the orders of
the Wall-street plutocratic war-
mongers are typical of countries
which are trying desperately to
divert attention from the in-
escapable fact that the Em-
bassies they maintain in all the
capitals of the Peoples’ De-
mocracies are used as head-
quarters of British-American
espionage and sabotage. But
the machinations of this filthy,
verniinous scum will not avail
against the clear, honest and
peaceful policy of the Soviet.
“The enlightened workers of
the New Democracies,” the
article goes on, “will not be de-
ceived by the lying and slander-
ous claim —which is sure to be
made—that the Embassy we
maintain in Bangkok is for some
sinister ends. The fact that we
have a staff of 60 to look after
the interests of the two Soviet
citizens resident in Bangkok is
perfectly in order, and serves
only to demonstrate to the world
the thoroughness and efficiency
with which the mighty U.S.S.R.
jealously guards the rights in all
foreign countries of those who
"Centlemen , Mr. Bloggs from across the road is going to
demonstrate HIS technique."
were fortunate to have been
born under its glorious flag!
“Scurrilously the warped
minds of the capitalistic Western
slave-labor exploiters have seized
on the innocent fact that the
14th under-footman at the
Soviet’s Bangkok Embassy hap-
pened to be closeted for five
hours with Pong Hi, whom the
filthy British foully slander with
the title of terrorist leader in
Malaya, and Yu Tini Kow, who
so gallantly leads the cause of
the Anti-Fascist Peoples’ Move-
ment in Burma against the re-
actionary monsters who are
shamelessly grinding the faces
of the wretched workers there.
Nothing could be more revolting
to the decent Soviet way of life
than the insinuations of these
scrofulous Anglo - Saxon pigs
about something which is com-
pletely guileless.
“The truth is that the under-
footman concerned, M.
Snuperov, suffers from antrum
trouble and sought the advice
and help of Pong Hi to ease his
affliction. The fact that Pong
Hi was able to give the under-
- footman some rare medicinal
herbs which this distinguished
botanist had gathered when he
was recently in Malaya for this
humanitarian purpose com-
pletely answers the libel. Yu
Tini Kow happened, by a re-
markable coincidence, also to be
there with the X-ray plant he
always carries with him —it is
not generally known that Yu
Tin! Kow is a famed X-ray tech-
nician—and the photos he was
able to take of M. Snuperov’s
antrums afforded him immedi-
ate relief.
“Here, then, is the irrefutable
evidence to give the lie direct to
insinuations that our Embassy
is being used to foment terror-
ism in the East. Once again the
Soviet’s famed reputation for
giving the clear, straightforward,
honest statement, as against the
twisted thinking so peculiar to
the Occidental mind, is more
than justified.”
Bo.
The Voice.
“Australia’s Doctor Herbert Vere
Evatt, president of the United
Nations Assembly, is still climbing
the slopes of the diplomatic Mount
Olympus.”
—Sydney “Sunday Telegraph.”
They surely do Bert Evatt wrong
To claim that he's the sort of
cove
Who’d waste his energy for long
In climbing heights once
scaled by Jove.
Not only is he always filled
With far too much humility,
But it is clear his solid build
111 fits such light agility.
And if from portents you de-
duce
That here his keen ambition
lies
Seek not within the realm of
Zeus
By Juno’s side if you are wise.
Nof down in Dis in Charon’s
role
With boat or clumsy coracle
By Styx’s shore; but here’s your
goal —
At Delphi as “The Oracle.”
D. H. E.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
The Edict of Eight?
The second paragraph of the preamble
of the Statute of Westminster reads:
And whereas it is meet and proper to
set out by way of preamble to this Act
that, inasmuch as the Crown is the symbol
of the free association of the members of
the British Commonwealth of Nations, and
as they are united by a common allegiance
to the Crown, it would be in accord with
the established constitutional position of all
the members of the Commonwealth in rela-
tion to one another that any alteration in
the law touching the succession to the
throne or the royal style and titles shall
hereafter require the assent as well of the
Parliaments of all the Dominions as of the
Parliament of the United Kingdom.
The declaration by eight P.Ms.,
promulgated ' from Downing-street—a
declaration reshaping the constitution of
the British Commonwealth of Nations—
made no reference to legislation or sanc-
tions by the various Parliaments. Are
about 72,000,000 white people to be
pushed about by eight men without any
reference to their Parliaments?
I gather the changes which are to take,
place are that the word “British” may be
dropped at will from the expression
“B.C. of N.” and that India is not to
consent to “a common allegiance to the
Crown” when all or most of the other
partners will do so.
In my opinion the preamble of the
Statute of Westminster is a solemn con-
stitutional agreement and, as such, bind-
ing on the parties thereto. The various
Parliaments, and not Prime Ministers, are
the parties thereto, and no reshaping of
the B.C. of N. should take place with-
out their approval. In the Australian
Press of April 29 Reuter’s political
correspondent was reported as saying
that legislation “will not be needed in any
of the Commonwealth countries to give
the declaration full effect.” —J, R. L. B.
(W.A.).
The Exchange Rate
For some time the current exchange
rate of £AI2S = £lOO sterling has looked
most incongruous against the actual
values of the respective currencies. It
ignores entirely the big change which oc-
curred during the war in the relationship
of Australian and sterling price levels.
Australian exporters are unduly favored
at present because they not only receive
high overseas prices but also obtain the
£25 exchange benefit and use the dearer
imported articles only to the same ex-
tent as any other citizens.
The exchange rate was pegged during
the 1930 depression to encourage export
trade —a trade which truthfully needs no
bonus over and above world prices at
present. As well as encouraging exports,
the original pegging was designed to cut
down imports by making them more
costly. That is still tending to happen.
Theoretically, the importer suffers, but
in actual fact he passes on the adverse
exchange difference to the public. All
this adds up to the fact that the general
public, most of whom consume imported
goods in some form or other, are subsi-
dising exporters who need no subsidy.
The suggestion is sometimes made that
a movement of the exchange rate back
to par would mean an increase in num-
bers of tariff rates, leaving the consumer
no better off than he was before the
alteration. The answer is that any
Australian manufacturer who can’t
compete with overseas interests when he
already has a tariff rate, which was rea-
sonable when fixed, and an artificially
low level of general costs compared with
overseas isn’t worth protecting.
The P.M. must know that returns to
exporters and costs of imported goods
to consumers are completely out of bal-
ance. The normal thing would be to
bring them a little closer together by at
least having the exchange rate at par. —
M.S.R. (N.S.W.). *
Low-flying Dangers
It’s about time civil-aviation authori-
ties began a concentrated “blitz” on
pilots who fly low over houses and pro-
perties.
The practice, common among R.A.A.F.
pilots during the war, has grown among
civil pilots lately, possibly because of a
general increase in petrol allowance to
private fliers and aero clubs,
R.A.A.F. courts-martial showed no
mercy with pilots charged with low-flying.
Two of my friends did three months
for “burning-up” their old school and
chasing the pupils and masters off the
sporting field. Severe disciplinary mea-
sures were warranted—those caught were
safe pilots in later years.
Last Sunday some “smart” pilot was
doing aerobatics over my suburb, little
more than 1000 ft. up. That might sound
safe to the layman, but any experi-
enced airman knows it is very dangerous.
Loss of air-speed would have stalled the
aircraft and it would have soon been
spinning earthwards. Few airmen can
get out of a spin inside 800 ft.
Civil-aviation authorities could learn
much from the low-flying safety-code of
the war-time R.A.A.F. Waddlin’
Willie (Vic.).
The Basic Wage
If “L.P.” thinks an increase in the
basic wage doesn’t increase the cost of
living (B. 4/5/’49), let him consider the
case of a manufacturer and processor of
foodstuffs employing 1000 hands, and
making a net profit of £12,000 a year.
If the basic wage is increased by, say,
ss. a week, the manufacturer’s wage cost
will immediately rise by £250 a week. If
he does not increase the price of his
products the increased wages will put
him £lOOO to the bad, without taking into
account the interest on the extra capital
to finance the £13,000 more wages he
has to pay.
He will also find he has to pay more
for containers, cartage, plant replace-
ment, etc. If he is to get interest
on his capital invested in his business
and an adequate salary for managing it
he will have to raise the price of his
products. By the time his wares reach
the retail store the extra wage and interest
costs will have been added at each stage
of distribution. —J. N. McL. (N.S.W.).
Prices and' Wages
A solution of the prices and wages
problem (B. 4/5/’49) will not be found
in Australia alone.
The economics of a country cannot be
entirely stabilised unless it is independent
of international trade, or unless all coun-
tries throughout the world are following
the same policy of stabilisation. The
second alternative has not been attempted,
and is not likely to be for some time.
Obviously Australia cannot comply
with the first condition. We depend on
overseas markets for the sale of our
primary produce, and for the purchase
of many raw commodities and manufac-
tured articles.
If, say, we produced just sufficient wool
for our own needs, and there was no
overseas demand for it, the selling price
of wool would be little more than the
wages incurred in its production, interest
due to the bank and a margin of profit.
Before it reaches the public in the form
of manufactured goods, added to that
prime cost is another amount, including
wages, salaries, profit-margin and pro-
duction costs, all of which make the final
selling price.
If our wool-processors found the price
ctf our home market too high, they would
look overseas for a lower one. Overseas
sellers would ask a price sufficiently low
to cut our home producers, but higher
than the price already ruling on their
own home market, and thus the costs in
the overseas country would be affected,
just as ours are now by the high price
paid to us for our wool.
From that, it may be seen that costs
here are affected by costs in England,
America and any other countries with
whom we trade. Until labor shortages
throughout the world are overcome^ —
either by greater willingness of wage-
earners to produce, or by improved
methods of production—both wages and
prices will stay high.—M. E. W. (Vic.),
r PmPn t SHm-taap
cement snortage
With cement in short supply there is
no reason why a cement works should
not be established in Chillagoe (Q.) at
the site of the former smelters. Much of
the machinery still on the site could
be used. ~. . .
Approximate cost of establishing a
cement works is £500,000, a figure that
could be reduced by about £150,000 by
making full use of the assets already
, .
Those assets include two locomo-
fives with a pulling capacity of 100 tons,
two miles of railway sidings, weighbridge
and goods shed. One of the sidings leads
to an overhead bridge and ore-bins. There
are some six-ton railway wagons,
two stationary boilers, stone-crackers, a
pulverising pug-mill and an engine-room
with much heavy machinery.
As well an electric nnwer-ronm can-
As w 11, an electric pow r room ap
able of generating enough power for a
cement works, offices, including an assay
office and homes for workmen. There
an e ic a e wo*s e an5 U a'wX
an ice-works and a water dam which has
never been known to go dry The
machinery remaining is in first-class con-
dilion, but a lot of buildings have been
allowed to deteriorate since other
machinery they housed was removed.
Raw materials? Clay in abundance ;
coal could be supplied from Mt. Mulligan
in sufficient quantities for a dozen such
industries, arid there is other coal in two
known bodies north of Chillagoe. Cement
is about three per cent, gypsum—the
necessary quantity could easily be trans-
ported from outside sources. As for
limestone, the principal ingredient—well,
this is limestone country—J. B. McD.
(Q-)-
Queensland Railways
Further to Will S. Price’s defence of
Queensland’s 3ft. 6in.-gauge railway (B.
11/5/’49). The war effort of Queensland’s
railways deserves a chapter in any Aus-
tralian history. Enormous quantities of
war material, hundreds of thousands of
Australian and Allied troops, with their
motor transport and equipment, were
moved over the coastal railway to the
far north.
The speed at which trains were moved
compared favorably ‘ with that in other
States possessing wider-gauge lines and
more powerful locomotives. Engine
mileage rose from 16,081,602 in 1938-39
to 24,309,794 in 1942-43. Goods-wagons
with an average mileage of 29 per day
were required to average 53 per day.
Few railway wagons in the world exceed
that figure—the average for American
wagons in 1939 was 36 miles.—Clem
Lack (Q.).
Food or Fun? >
“E. & 0.E.” (B. 20/4/’49) is justi-
fied in stating that the men who pro-
vide the concrete necessaries of life are
called bloodsuckers while those who run
the swings and roundabouts are regarded
as jolly good fellows. The same rule
applies in the market for abstract ideas
and the things of the spirit. Comedians
earn more than philosophers. Tipsters
earn more than teachers. Churches are
empty while picture-palaces are crowded,
Poets starve while writers of mushy songs
grow fat. Art galleries are deserted while
comic-strips are admired by young and
old. Immortal music is drowned by
blaring jazz.
Is there a cure for this sorry state of
public taste? There is no sudden or
miraculous means of creating culture,
Only the evolutionary process of educa-
tion can establish a wide demand for
truth and beauty. The churches could
assist by replacing the endless repetition
of ancient scripts with such modern writ-
ings as are for edification, instruction
and reproof.
Schools could employ capable writers,
artis t s an d musicians to teach the young,
personally or by radio and film, how to
appr eciate the best in the sphere of
genetics. Such boring details as
g ram mar, scales and copying could be
left to the usual tqachers in their ap-
pointed task of reducing living ideals to
dry . bones
How can children or adults be expected
[ OV e masterpieces they have never
rea d or seen except as stern pre-
cepts ’to be obeyed, passages to be
a n a lysed, exercises to be practised, or
problems to be solved through long days
f i a bor^—And How (S A )
Queensland Timber
~
Sawdusts estimate of the available
s i‘PP ly P ine Q^ ens * an 1S I°°
modest B 4/5/49). The Forestry De-
Partment has just completed at the head-
waters 0 f t ( lc Brisbane River access roads
j stand of virgin hoo p-pine roughly
esti ted at 100 “ illion super.-feet.
the eastern and western forks
ot the rirer above Mt ' Stanley the hills
vaUeys crowded with magnificent
bunya-pities, some over 130
. , F ... „„„
lnche * m g,rth and as stralght as Sh-
"here are other stands in other parts of
. be , t and also a|ong the coasta .
ran g es> aggregating many millions more,
The coastal hoop-pine growing on the
islands off t h e coast is a different variety
£ rom the stuff around the inland fringe,
when the forestry plantations get into
production there will be a fair bit of
timber to stack. Already thinnings from
the Yarraman plantations have made
avadab i e t o local sawmills around
i b 000,000 super.-feet. By the time that
lot is cut up there will be plenty more
ready.
A patch of Caribbaea grown as a trial
died during a dry spell a couple of years
ago—the surface roots were unable to
withstand drought conditions as the hoop
can. The dead trees were only about
10-12 years old, yet a surprising
amount of good timber was obtained
from them.
There’s a stack or two at the Yarra-
man Pine Co.’s mill with over 20,000
super.-feet in them, all from trees that
some thought were useless. There’s lots
of timber left in Queensland yet, but
getting it cut is a different matter,
Bon Yi (Q.).
“THE BULLETIN” CROSSWORD No. 18
Across.
f
I—Prank1 —Prank to goad a flower. (8)
4—Showed amusement at the dis-
tance from one end of South
Dakota to the other. (6)
9—Don Bradman and Arthur Morris
modelled in terra-cotta. (9)
11— Also has tea with a pair of spec-
tacles on. (3)
12— Spill back with extreme ease in
the oval. (7)
13 — Makes entreaties in the heart of
such creatures. (6)
16 — Artist takes the starting price in
the file. (4)
17 — A team with confidence from an
actor. (5)
19 — Place concerning the answer that
should have been given by the
divorcee before marriage. (4)
20 — Local-government officer is to
work in music and harvest the
bird’s neck. (4)
21 — Skilled in one small department.
(5)
24 —Pierce upset the other run-getters.
(4)
27 Have the brave man in, the
dope. (6)
28 — Where are the ' ashes of last
night’s fire, you thankless crea-
ture? (7)
(CRYPTIC TYPE.)
{Solution in next issue.)
30 —Only five at the barrel. (3)
32 — About a cad that bounces?' (9)
33 — Obligations of the French cra-
vats. (6)
34 — Remote one with a schnozzle of
flour. (8)
Down.
1 — Balt to make a mistake on some
of the anti-aircraft fire where the
mail might be collected. (6-4)
2 Friction pronounced a benedic-
tion on one broken rock. (11)
3 The costs of maintaining above
the castle strongholds. (7)
5 He believes in Allah to make
Muriel slender. (6)
6 Set fire to the French bed. (3)
7 This hand will do all right. (4)
8 — Rising evil on the furniture is
patted gently. (6)
10 —One legislator’s devils. (4)
14 — A garret rook found in South
Africa. (5, 6)
15 — Old-fashioned garment and a
confused New Zealand parrot get
two exposures on the one film.
(6, 4)
18 —It makes southernmost Chile
chillier. (3)
22—Famous lion-tamer and you exist
in a river. (6)
23 —Prissy and you take the French
flower. (7)
25 The French money market could
be about yours and mine. (6)
26 Elderly. (4)
29 —Writer can duck sixpence. (4)
31 —Toddler to seek the aggregate. (3)
Solution to Crossword No. 17.


The Canberra
' *
“Dictators”
won’t tell you
the tacts about high prices
... so here they are
ĵ
Abruptly, and with deliberate, premeditated intent, the Chifley Govern-
ment withdrew price subsidies immediately after the Referendum —
and then starved the States of funds to replace them.
Don’t get the idea that this is just a matter of high finance which does
not concern you. Subsidies to the extent of between thirty and forty
million pounds were granted by the Commonwealth to keep down the
prices of such things as household linen, crockery, potatoes, household
drapery, and other essentials. These are the subsidies which the Chifley
Government maliciously withdrew.
The Chifley Government intentionally sabotaged State control of
prices and forced prices that it had already allowed to get out of
hand to soar to still more disastrous heights.
Only increased production can overcome inflation, and incen-
tive schemes can effectively increase production. Yet the
Chifley Government, because it is afraid of certain Communist-
bossed unions, refuses to allow incentive schemes to be
encouraged.
The responsibility for the exorbitant cost of living rests squarely
on the Chifley Government,
WHEN THE LIBERAL PARTY IS RETURNED TO OFFICE INCREASED PRODUCTION WILL BE
REWARDED BY INCENTIVE BENEFITS AND A REDUCED COST OF LIVING.
GIVE FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO
THE LIBERAL PARTY send
your contribution to State
Headquarters.
Authorised by D. M. Cleland, 30 Ash St., Sydney.
Liberal
THE GOVERNMENT FOR THE PEOPLE
Favouring none . . fair to all
ITL3C-4I
